tttt ottije tUlUtCti and Daily
- By John Fenno, N°-
176.6.J
FOR SALE,
A House and U elegant Building Lots in German
town.
ON. Monday the 14th ioftant at 30' clock P. M.
will be fold by public au£ion on the pr«mi
fes.
The firft House in the village of Germantown
fit u a ted on the right hand fide of the Road
leading from Philadelphia. Also i\ building lots
adjoining the fame, each containing jo teet on
front on the Germantown road, and extending
400 feet on depth.
N. B. A plan of the above lots maybe f«en pre-
Tiom to the day of Tale by applying to
- " too rMAN at (Jo. Auctioneers
May 7. '
Taken up on the sth initant,
Two Strayed Horfcs, the one a black with a
Speck in one of his eyes, the other a bright bay
both of them long manes and tails, ft is fup
pol'cd they were caught trespassing on some other
place, as they had both of them long bulhes faf
tened t» their talis, and were much spent with
running when tliey were taken up. Whoever
iias lojt them is desired t» eome and«prove pio
pertv, pay charges and take them away.
Enquire at No. 88 Spruce-street.
may 7. dtf
Forty Dollars Reward.
RAN AWaY, on the of Arril, a Negro
Man, named Gl fgrtv, perhaps he may pass
hy the name of Ghfgaw Lec, or may change )ii9
name ; he is a -out thirty one ye;rs of age, near'y
fir feet high, has a fear in the upper part of his un
der lip, a small part being bitten out between the
middle and the corner of his mouth (I believe on
the right fid< ), his left hand has be n very fore,
and was so at the tine he ran away, by being burnt
some time pall : he is a Sout, strong fellow, and
Jus been employed at a saw mill a few years: he
went away in company with a negro woman of
Mr. Joshua Lingoe, of this county. It is supposed
they are gone into Delaware State. Any person
that secures said Negfo Man in any gaol, that the
. fubfciiber shall get him again, (hall receive the
above reward. £SME BAYLY.
,Stats of Maryland, 7
Somcrfet County, april 10. J may 4 —4W
** no net.
THREE Certificates of Si* Per Cent. Deferred
Debt of the United Slates ot the fallowing
Jefcriptlon, via —No. 10033, 10034, and 10035,
for 5000 dollars each, dated Bth May, 1797, and
ilan»ingon the books of theTreafury of the Uni
ted States, in the name of Benjamin Waddington,
<jf Lanover Houfe,near \bergavenney in England,
iEfq. have been loa by the capture of the ship Uac
ihus, from hence to London, in June lad.—This,
therefore notifies those whom it may concern, that
application will be made at the Treasury of the D«
jiited States for a renewal of the fame.
Waddington £s° Harwood.
march iz §6w
' ~~ Ls/tivbh U Ttila DAT, ; 1
Jprom on hoard the (hip Alex nder, capt. Brown,
from Jacquemel, at Wilcoeks' wharf, about I
£O,OOO wt. of fine Green Coffee !
in hoglheads, barrels and bags
For Sale—aoplj to :
John Whitejides & So,
WHO HAS ON HAND,
Claret of the firft quality, in cases
. april §6t
Manchester Goods.
Received by the te- J
veral trunks, suitable for the prifent and ap
proaching faafon, which will be fold very
low for cash or on a fiiort credit, viz.
7-8 and 9-8 Printed Calicoes *
Fancy Waiftcoating in Mars illes, &e.
Cotton and silk and cojton Huficry, Pantaloons,
&c.
A variety of (Englilh) UmVcllas 1
Nankeens, cotton Hhkfj. Shoe binding, Set.
N. B. A cafe of printed Muflmets, and a trunk
of Pullicat Bangalore Handkerchiefs, entitled to (
drawback, aad very suitable for the Weft-Indies. \
Apply No. 35 South Wat«r and comer of Cbef- s
nut street. 41110. 11—$iw
r| NewTeaWarehouse.
No. 39, South Front Street,
OPPOSITE POST-OFFICE.
THE Subscriber rcfpe&fully acquaintshcrfricads
and the public, that {he has opened a Store for
thefaleof all kinds of teas, imported in the late ®
arrival? at Bollon and Philadelphia, (asunder) and '■
which file is determined to fell on rcafonable terms.
■ It will be herconftant endeavour to give fitisfaflion S
to those who please to favor her with their cullotn.
Country lien s will fijd it their advantage to deal
wi, h her, as (he can at a moment's notice aflbrt '
them any quantity wanted,and will allowareafon
?J)le credit on approved notes.
Imperial, Hyson, Young Hyson, Souchong,
Hyson Skin, and Bohea—Alfo, Coffee and Loaf
Sugar for sale.
Sarah Eaton.
April n s&th 6w
N O T I G ,E.
THE Partnrrfhip of the fubferibers, tradin™ tin
der the firm of PAXSON O" RICHARD
SON, was diffolv«d on the sixth of the third mofith
last, by mutu 1 consent. All persons indebted
thereto are earnestly requeftcd to make payment ;
and those that have any demands against the fame,
are desired to present their accounts for settlement
Ip either of thefubferibers.
Isaac Paxjon,
Nathaniel Richard/on.
Philadelphia, 4th mo. 3d, 1798.
ISAAC~PAXSON, a
Continues to carry 011 the bulinefs at the usual
,place, No. 10, South Third street, where.he has g t
on hand a large afTortment of Ironmongery, Sad- t
<ilery, Cutlery Jind Brass Wares, which he wi'lA.ll
wholsfaleor retail, on low terms, for calh or ths
lifual credit. He expe&s to receive by the fir'l ,
veOels from London, Bristol, Liverpool and Hull, . a
a large addition to his present afTortment; and ' ''■
will execute with pumftnality and care iny orders ua
from he former customers, and his friends in gen- w '
eral. liw^w ' '
A Country Seat.
TO BE LET for the summer season or by the
year, the greattr part rf a large House, in ~
a high, healthy (itoation, above the eight mile
(tone, on the Gfrmantown road (occupied only by Tl
ft newly married couple)—with ftablingand con
renience for keeping a carriage. For further par
titulars, enquire ot Caspar W. Haines, in Ger
mantown, or the fubferiber, on the premises.
HEZEKIAH huntsman.
may 1. ftawjw I a
PHILADELPHIA: TUESDAY EVENING, MAT 8, 1798.
Military Colours.
j4t C. GULLAGER's
Portrait and Ornamental Painting Rooms,
No. so, South Fourth, next to Chefnut street,
„ oppolite the Friends' Mooting.
T)AINTING on silks for Military and other or
)ts A namental purposes (in a manner pec«4»r to
an himfelt) durable, net to be ii jured by the weather,
a which for elegance of design, truth an I beauty of
colouriw, reatnrfs and exccation, has
not been equalled by George Rojjjr and Co.
FLAGS and DRUMS
Furniftied with all poflible dilpatqh, on themoft
rcafonable terms.
Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck
a ets, Cornices, &c. &c. executed in (tile (net that
superb stile of modern elegance petnliar to G- R )
but in a workman like manner, peculiar to an ar-
H tift mailer of hi? prolefiion.
Mr. Gullager, from a number of year's expe
rienct in Europe and this country, flatters himfelf
that profcflional talents, punctuality, and reafon
er able demands, will meet the entire approbation of
those gentlemen who wi 1 please to c II at hirPaint
ing Rooms. §6w may 5.
Military Colours,
PAINTED ON SII,K— by
0 George Rutter & Co.
[; Portrait and Ornamental Painters,
TN a flile whioh will. ndo re be hardftiips of the
X weather without injury, and whu:h for ne?.tnefs
e and exadlitude of colouring cannot befurpaifed in
n this city.
FLAGS and DRUMS
it Furnished with dispatch, ©n th« moll moderate
d terms.
* Portraits, Ornamental Paintings, Signs,
J fire buckets, &c. accomplilhed in that fupcb llilc
of modern elegance, which, Mr. Rb ttr pledges
e himfell from 20 years experience iu this city will
e meet the entire approbation of his friends anJ the
public.
In the .Military Ljne,
A variety of fptcimcn's riVay lie fcen at their
Painting Room, Norris'sCoiirt, back of the Naw
Library.
1 may 3 f!6w
r
• Robert Field,
MINIATURE PAINTER,
, Ha< removed t>> No. ro6, Walnut street, be
, tween fourth and Filth streets.
■ ' mav 1. dtw
; NOVICE.
A S Wednesday the ninth instant is appointed
■F\ by the Prslident of the United States, as
a day of Solemn Humiliation, Fading and
P rj y? r > Notice is hereby given, that the Bank
of Penrifylvai»ia will be (hut on 1 hat day, and
, that all payments which then become due at
, Bank, rna't be made on the day preceeding;
the Board of Direilnrs will meet'on Tuesday
the eighth instant, for the purpose of Discount
ing and Notes offered for lifcount must there- 1
fore be sent in, the Vondaj*' preceeding.
Bji order of the Beard
JON. SMITH, Cajhier. ]
"13V 3- dtß 1
A Premium of 100 Dollars \
WILL be paid by the Bat)k of Pennfylva- ]
nia, for such Flan of a Banking
accompanied with feitions and as may j
Kr Sy tne mi , e3lor«. The building is ; ]
not intended to exceed 60 feet front, or 100 feet i
in depth, and to be so planned a« to admit of its ! (
being made fire proof. It is requeued that the I
plans may* be fen* to the Cashier of the Bank, pre
vious to the fixft of Jupenext.
a rril 19 tuthsti Je |
In the Brig Benjamin Fran klin, from t
Bourdeaux, « \
AND FOR SALB BY THE SUBSCRIBER , f
Claret in caiks
White wine in half calks
Sweet oil of afuperior quality in boses a,nd balkets j
Lunelle "n
Santerne ( .
Macarty, and ( WlE " In Cafet " '
Medoc J
Thomas Murgatroyd, ,
No. 11, WalndtStreet. <> c
WHO HAS ON HAND, .
Bourdeaux Brandy in pipes } Intitled
Irish market 7 ( to
Medoc, and Sau'erne j m< * mca c 8 ,5 drawback 1
Sherry wide in pipesan J quarter calks
Rota q
Pimento in bags , 0
fwo trunks of Umbrellas, and n
About 4000 bulhels 1 iverpool Salt. n
"'"•■ ft _ tnw&ftr b
ox beef: * ;
100 Barrels of Beef of bell quality, put b
50 half Barrels J tip with care for long voyages, n
ico Barrels of" Conneiflicut 1 ork. n
so Barrels of Conneilifcut Tongues. , d
WINES.
35 Pipes qf Madeira Wine. [ l
jo Pipes of Port.
30 half Calks of Sherry.
30 Calks of Lisbon.
Cafes of French Claret, of excellent 3 '
quality.
800 Bane's of Scraped FLOUR, ®
lOC Barrels of Condemned, and
*q Bp*es of best Durham Mustard.
foa SALE LV
John Skyria m
FOR SALE, p
Two three story Brick HOuses f e '
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. fituateon bi
Water ftredt, between Mulberry an J SafTafras di
Streets, containing in front on Water street sis- m
ftet, and containing that breadth eall- pr
\yard ninety-five feet, then widening to the ga
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses lei
have the convenience of a put)l';c alfty adj.iin- "l^l
ing an the north fide, and area very defirablefit- wi
uatinn for a a merchant, flour f»£lor, or others nit
who may have occasion for florage of goods, inl
This property will be fold oh very reasonable
terms for cash. For further information apply thi
to the printer. 0 f
a P ! S mAwtf «ic
For Sale, ~ ~
rbesargoofthebrigAmericanfromLaguira, bu
CONSISTING OF
Ca'accas Cocoa. *ri
Henry Philip, °w
No. ill, Ssuth Fcutfh Street. the
a P nl s -5 <5 h,r
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
HS,
WIINISDJI, *P*JL ij.
C » [ '
f Concluded from yef/enlat's Gazette-1
«*- Mr. Harper callod for tTie order of the
to day on the bill for establishing an executive
J er > department, to be denominated The Depart
' ° ment of the Navy. The house accordingly went
as into a committee of the whole on this bill,
and rose without making any amendment in
the bill; but upon the queltion in the houfa
ioft of its palling to a third reading,
Mr. Gallatin said, he had not proposed
k_ any amendment to this bill in the committee
hat the whole, because what,ht? had to fey up
t j on it, would go against the principle ot the
ar _ bill. He did not think it necertary to eftab
iifh a Navy Department. He did not suppose
pe- our army and navy were at present so large as
"elf to require two separate departments. If the
>n- business was so much increased as the persons
of at present employed could not do it, they
□t- might be increased. Nor did he believe with
some gentlemen that such an institution would
- produce economy. On the contrary, lie al
ways found that the increase of offises, was
theincreafe of '.xpence. Some time ago, it
was said that great economy would arise from
appointing a Purveyor of Supplies ; but he
had seen, from the time of this establishment,
be a great and confiant increase of expence in
ess everything which relates to fup,plies Not
in feeing the necessity of it, therefore, he should
vote again ft it, except good reason should be
given for it; for he believed, the moment a
te department of this kind was eftabliHied, the
head of it would wi/h to make it of as great
importance as possible by endea'/qurs to ex
' tend the object of his fuperintendance. He
called for the yeas and nays upon the question,
which were agreed to be taken.-
" Mr. J. Williams did not feeldifpofed to
vote for this bill. It appeared to l>ipi that
the Secretary of War,with officers under hint,
would be fufficient for the marfa'gemViit of
ir our naval concerns also. It was some time
w after the constitution was framed, beforp the
War Department was established' Whenever
_ an office was established, something was al ways
found for it to do. Soon after the War De
partment was established, we had an Indian
war, and after that Indian war ceafed,another
establishment was made under the name of the
Accountant's Office. If the business was in
creased, new clerks might be employed, but
- he (hould be againlt any new department. If
we were engaged in hostilities, and our naval
d power, of course increased, such an eftablilh
is ment might be necelfary ; but at present he
d did not think it necefTary.nor did he think our
k revenue equal to the support of a navy which
d (hould require such an efl.abliftiment to take
it care of it. Ifthisoffice was to superintend
; the construCtion of veifels, performs acquainted
y with this business, might be employed under
the Secretary as War. The present expence
of the War Department was 18,150 dollars a
year, and though there would not be much
to do in this new office, he supposed the »
pence would nut 'fco much lets, and bcfides
Congress would be importuned from session to
session to increase our naval force. Mr. W.
said he was desirous of making every defence
- for our country, yet he wished to keep down
our expences as much as pollible ; tfxjrcum
-1 fiances ciflcd for gohrg igniter into the bufi- 1
s | ness of the navy, he fliould not object to it. 1
Mr. Sewai.l said, when the house was 1
»confideriug any subject relative to the encreafe' 1
e ' of the navy, complaints were made of the 1
enormous expences, aild of the little refpon- 1
Ability which attends the business, and when ;
it has been said that the greatness of the ex
pence might have aril'en from a want of
knowledge in the persons who had the care of ;
the business, it was said that defect to ;
be remedied. This department is intended
to do that, and by the expence of a few hun- I !
dreds of dollars, he had no doubt thousands I
would be saved. When talking about vefrels, »
it was complained that too great an expense 1
was incurred on this objed ; now it is laid <
there is no object for ths proposed officer to 1
attend to ; but the gentleman from New- I
V oik (Mr. Williams) was afraid tf thisoffice c
was eltabliflied, it would he the means of 111- a
♦creasing the navy. This certainly could nut t
be done contrary to the will of Congress. (
He thought there were obvious realotis for I
. the ellablifhment of this deparrment. It was t
well known that an officer might be well ac- f
quainted with the bulinefs of the array, with- v
out knowing any thing about a navy, and a, v
man employed at the head of such f
ment, ought to have some knowledge of the t
bulinefs committed to his care. M°r. S. said.
• however well the present Secretary of War h
might be acquainted with army concerns, he t]
believed he was not conversant with naval C
matters. In consequence of this, he had a h
number of agents employed under him. In- <r
deed the War Department had so much -bu.fi- ci
ness on its hands, as not to be able to pay a C
fufficient attention to our naval ertabliffiment. al
He therefore believed it jvas necelfary to make b
this new establishment, elpecially as the Naval 11;
Department was likely to be considerably al
augmented. w
Mr. S. Smith believed, after all the ftru"-- hi
gles which had been made 011 ih:s subject, °it b
would at length be foynd necelfary for the ar
United States seriously to turn their attention ni
to the establishment of an efficint naval force, <r (
and the sooner gentlemen could bring their in
minds to this, the better it would be for the ti<
general good. If this proposition had been in
brought forward at the commencement of the ce
session, he should have thought itunnecelTary ; nc
but from the increase which had been made cli
during this session, bethought the establish- Si
ment proper. 950,000 dollars had been ap- 011
propriated tor providing 12 vessels.a numberof ty
gallies were alio contemplated,a (hip of war or [I
(chooner, it appears has been-built on the be
-lakes, and some gallies on the rivers. These, ch
with the frigates and cutters,form aneftablifh- on
ment which will require a naval man to htuer- th
intend it. An expenditure ot twomillions of de
K !lC f "PP Q ' cd '» would be authorized be
this session ; and a man knowing fomethin<* (he
of naval architecture, will be abLe to save ;
more in the course of this year to the United fed
States, than will pay ten years of the expences to
ot this office. A merchant going into the acc
building of veCTels, without a knowledge of ant
the business, will find the truth of this fait. int.
n.e great expenditure attending the building Th
of the frigates, he supposed, had been chiefly
owing to the want of such an establishment as b.ll
the present. The jentleman from New-York jwh
had ftatei the expence of the War Depart. pui
ment at 18,250' dollars ; but one half of that
expence was incurred in the office of the Ac
;S. countant of the War Department, and as
there would be no need of a new Accountant,
the expence could (lot be doubled. The.
duties of the War Department arejgr'eatly
increased, and might be farther i)icr«£fed do
he ring the present session ; and an g)CM>f»imire
ive of the kind proposed nYimm Mvv the thawing
«- away of thousands of dollai j. -v' '* T*'
:nt Mr. M acon said the favour
ill, of this bill were derived fro-.ri.-a want tff -know
in ledge of naval affairs in the War DcpftHment.
rfe He thought that might be supplied Without
the establishment of a new department ; but
ed he believed the building of the frigates had
;ee lnoftly been carried on under the direction of ,
p- the captains who were tp hjjve the coiftmand
he of them. More clerks had been added to the |
b- War Department, in consideration of the bull- I
>fe ness which the navy had occaiioned. He be- i
as lie ved the more officers were appointed, the'
he more money would be expended,
ns Mr. Otis said, the gentleman from New- '
ey York-had oppoled this billon different ground
th from the gentleman from Pennsylvania. He :
Id did pot make any reply to the gentluman from i
il- Pennsylvania, because he expected oppolition
as from him and some others, to every measure
it which had the defence of the country for
ni their object; and as the session was drawing
he to a close; he thought it belt to have as little
it, debate as possible, and that the foeiner the
in question was taken, th o better; but when he
ot heard a gentleman life in oppolition to it,uip
ld on whole support he calculated, he was ap
je prehenlive 1 eft it might have an effeit upon
a other persons on whose support healfo relied,
lie The gentleman from New-York seemed to i
at apprehend foms new and heavy expence Was
to be incurred, and that some greater caution
le was now necelfary than heretofore. What
11, saving, then, does he mgan to make by op
posing the eltabiiffiiiient of this office ! Since
to lie iuppofes the fame clerks v ill be ftiffijient,
it it will only be the salary of the chief officer,
11, which Mr. O. Cippofed would be 3,500 dol
ot larS ; a greater saving than which would be
le made by such a parson in every, ship built or
le purchased. Taking the expence of our naval
:r establishment at one million dollars a year, it
/»■ wouM only be an expence of one third per
cent, which every one mult allow was a mere
;n trifle to have the money of the public well
;r expended. The Cervices of the War and
le Naval Departments were, he said, perfectly
1- diltincf. The duties of the War Department
it became every day more arduous, and, what-
If ever gentlemen may think, they inuft become
tl more so. This opposition coming from a
friend, he could not suppose it arose from a
e bad motive, but merely trom a narrow con
ir ception of what is conceived to be the agri
h cultural interefl. Agriculture and commerce,
e said Mr. O. are twin filters, and cannot, live
d separate from each other ; they mull live to
d gefherj or expire Stthe fame moment. It was
r the duty of gentlemen representing agricul
e turifts thus to speak to their conditions. It
a was an axiom realized by every politician in
h the world. The fa£t was, that every thing
t- upon the Naval Department was so
s much saved, in which the agricultural part of
0 the country partake very largely.
Mr. O. said, it was necelfary even for the
e fake of appearances,, to establish aft office of 1
n this kind. We ought not only to prepare
- meaftrrrs of definite tiy Tea and land, bin in 1
doing this, we ou"ht to do it in conformity, 1
to the opinion of the European wdrld. He 1
s thought 5,000 dollars a year would be well
e expended in purchasing the good opinion of '
2 the European Nations in this refpect,and par- I
t; cirla'rly of t ranee. 1 1 hough our Ihite was I
1 at ptefenr that ot n:i infant, it would in time
- become that of an Hercules. f
f Even if the present (torm (hould blow over, v
t and our Naval power fhotjld not be wanted, a
> and the tneory of the' gentleman from New- t
I \ ork Ihould ovtrconie his theory, the elta
- I blilhirvent of this office could at any time be j (
1 fuppiclied, and the money expended in it n
, would be more than saved, by the additional
: information and care einploye,d in our Naval n
t concerps, as it was a thing impolTible for one
) aian to undertake the bufinefsiif the Warand e
■ Navy Departments. As well might a Mer- I
: chant be set to do the business of a l.awyer ; ti
a Law-yer that of a Phylician ; a Carpenter 0
: that of a Bricklayer, or a Bricklayer that ofa i
Carpenter. He hoped, therefore, as he had
heretofore had the pi ;afure Of voting with h
■ 'he gentleman from New-York, he Ihould al- il
so have it on this occasion, whillt gentlemen n
who believe that no danger threatens us, and ft
, who are disinclined to take measures of de- tl
fence, may call the yeas and nays, and find g 1
themselves in a minority as qfual. " b
Mr. T. Claibqrk-e never remembered to a'
have heard such language as had fallen from it
the gentleman lalt up. He laments, said Mr. ti
C. that a gentleman who usually voted with d<
him (hould dare to think for himfclf. Are to
gentlemen's opinions and language thus to be w
circumscribed f [Mr. O. explained]. Mr. ai
C. continued, the gentleman was willing that 'h
all questions Ihould now be taken withput de- ta
bate. Does this mean, said he, that there art el
majority of members in this house who mud p.
always be in the right, ahd a minority al
ways in the wrong ? If this be the cafe, they fa
had better dismiss tlie minority, and do the he
biifinafs themselves. Were not gentlemen ga
any longer to exvrefs their difference of opi- th
nion > Would this be the way to keep the ■»
government together, or to prelerve hanno&y ofl
in the country ? If" this were to be the fitua- an
tionot things, he should regret it with tears w <
in his eyes. He had himlelt no mathematical wi
certainty that any opinion»ot his was right ;
nor did he think the gentleman from MaSa- thi
chuletts ought to expect men to bow to his. wl
Such an airumption led to mTchief of a feri- to
011s kind. What I to fay we have a majori- Tf
r : t, and , ,tlerefore w e will have no debate. 011
[ he Speaker said no such expression had jei
been made use of : if it had he (houfd have mc
checked it.] Had it not been for a'll exWi®. be]
on of this kiliS, he (hould not have riftfn on rop
this question. He wifiied to Jiear every -"Aa
deliver his opinion freely. Mr. C. did not' wit
believe the bill to be a proper one, and he
Ihould therefore vote againlt it. tua
Mr. M Dowe ll said, he ihould be oppo- to 1
(ed to the bill, if he had no other objection are
to it than that it went to countenance the idea, and
according- to the gentleman from Maryland ?
and VfaUachu lefts, that this country mi\(t go nvo
into the establishment ol a large Naval Power, the
Ihe great (aving to be derived from this of- of
sice, he underflood to be from savings in the wh<
building of velTels, but as the twelve velTels had
which were lately voted, are proposed to be yea
purrhafed ready b'v.lt, he supposed this rea- and
tha* foil did not apply atfirfiftut. If these w;.?
Ac- no Intention, therefore (which he milted
1 as there was not) of carrying our Naval Kft-i
---ant, blifhment toany conliderable extent, heCould
Ihe fee iso occalion for the creation of this offictr.
at|y For if tin's Secretaryof the Navy was appohl*
du- ted, lie would alfoie obliged to rely upon o
tiire thers, in a gtcal degree, for information!
»;ing But the gentleman from Matfilclui/etti
(Mr. Otis) fays the eftablidunrnt of this lle
'our partment will operate as a defence to the
"*■ country, by favourably imprelling the minds
ent. of Foreign coun ries with our force, and he '
lout lamented the loss of the vote of one of h:s
but friends, and reflected Upon ail tliofe who dif
had frred from him in opinion as being unfrieiid
yof ly to himfelf and the country. He could not
and discover how the palling of this bill would
the 1 defend the country. Ifloundor dey*amati.i
nil-. on, could alarm France or subdue her ahiiiesj
be- i the gentleman might have some fliare of cre
the dit tor his ( rvices; but he fupppft'd »ther
I means would be necelfary, if an attack was
e\v- , made. But hew could that gentleman think
uml | of charging others in the manner he had
He done? Js there a man, said he, who votes
rom | in opposition to him, who is actuated by t-he
tion ; motives with which he has charged them ?
aire No man reajl-y believes it. Hut btcaufe mem
tor, l>ers do not chuffi to go all lengths with
'ir)g ' him to involve the country in a war which
ttle may go the deltruCtion of the liberties of it,
the they are thus calumniated. They are willii-.g?
ihe to go all rcafonable lengths ; and if there
up- were any attack made upon this country ,he
ap- j believed they would be much more ready' to
pon j meet the enemy than that gentleman, fil
ed. i deed, many of (hole members whom h? abu
to fed, had been the means of raifint' the Conlti-
Was tntion and Government under which lie has
.ion the liberty to legislate. Such reflections
hat could have noeffect upon those ag.vult whom
op- they were made, where their Characters were
nee known : they weir meant to produce effect
:ih, I*l other parts. He
:e"r, calumny had heretofore paired, without again
10l- introducing it. It would not lelferi the cre
be dit of thehoufe, if no was heard of it
tor in future.
val Mr Harper said, the nnval defence
, it which this house thought necessary for tfie ,
per service of the country having been voted, he
eve could not agree with tliofe gentlemen who
/"ell consider this as a quellion of defence. He
ind thought it a queltion of economy, and in this
t!y view, he fliould reply to some observations
ent, which had been made upon it.
at- He believed our Naval defence would be
me much more efficacioully and fyeedily pto.vid
a ed by means of the proposed eltablifhment,
i a than if tne bill was rejected. So far, indeed*
>n- it is question of defence, but only collateral
;ri- ly so. The point of view in which this bill
ce, Ihould be conlidered, is (imply this, will it
ive not effect with more speed and economy the
to- marine defence now exiting, as well as that
vas contemplated? He himfelf had no doubt as
til- tp the fact. Indeed, he would ask the gen-
It tleman from N. Carolina, whether, if he
in were about to erect a Distillery on his place,
ng de would employ his overseer to do it, who,
f° ihough l»« might underltajid the business of
of his farm very-well, knew noth:->gor building
He cerainly would not ; and if this would
he be bad policy in an individual, it would be
of equally so in a natiori. Besides thr expence
ire would be so trifling as enly to amount (as
,n had been fhtedj toone third per cent, though
;ty traders were in the habit of paying 5 ~c r cent.
?Ie to have their business done,
ill But it was said, .that if an office of this kind
Of was eltabliflied, it would soon create btlfinefs.
r- Kutthe billinefS is already Created. We have'
as laid he, marine of fifteen fliiirs of
nC r '"ii r \ ' le ' <new > was comparatively a
final! force, but in the eftablilhmerit of which
■r, we lhall yet expend two million* of dollars,
d, and t.ie support oi which will amount at leafi
w 7 O * SO0 > 000 dollars annually. When the
i vv ar Department was firit eltabliflied, th-ob*
>e of its care was not, he believed, ofeciual
it magnitude. 1
at These two departments, Mr. H. said, had
al no connexion with each other. No nation was
ie without two such departments, and our own
,d j experience had (hewn the want of a Nai.,-
r- Department. Therefore economy, the pruc
; tjee of individuals, the common pradlce of
~r orht r nations, and our own experience concur
a i n fnpport of this bill.
£ i i Mr 'i K j Y 1 LL , IA , MS w « re ady to acknow
h ledge he did not believe it 'could ever be the
1- interelloi this country to go into die ertablifli-
I, went of a large naval power, and therefore hi
d Ihould not be in ravour of the present bill on
that ground. Nor did he think there wasanv
d gpodreafon tordividuig the miliiarv and naval
business except there was more than could be
„ attended to by the present efhblilhment R„t "
n it was said the bnhnefs was of a different na
■. ture, and therefore it ought to be in feparatt
h departments, as one man cannot be fujinofed
e to uaderlfand both concerns. That objection
e would apply toanj- of the other departments
' ru le of dividing btifinef^-
t lliall be adopted, we (hull get men of inferior
~ p| C y n°,! w^ n Hie government was
t eltabliflied, it was thought that a War De
l partment would be equal to the military and
. naval concerns of this country. But it was
i laid a navy was not then thought of - it w .,
- I"*wever doubtless thought of when'th- sri
, gates were ordered to be built, and it was not
then gone into. It was however said that
• much money had been loft, for want of an
' °ft c ° r r 't this kind. This was mere assertion
and it was by no means clear that the business
; would be done better with fueh an officer than
[ without hinu
But it was said it was necessary to go into
this measure for the fake of appearances To
whom are these appearances to be made > Not
to our own people, but to European nations
Ihe gentlemkn from Massachusetts fays we
ought to adopt their opinion upon this sub
J - V r eWC(l U , P ° ! ' c >' of the
molt fatal of any other to tnis counirv He
believed that the less we had to do w-th Eh
politics, and their mode of adminff
i -tVatlen, the better. The only object i„ view '
• witJuhat Hdtjfe ought to be the intcreft of
riii.r own country. What, said he, is the si
tuation of those countries which Juve -onein
to the eflablifhment of large navies > Tfiev
are involved in debt which they neves can
and nevpr will pay. 1 ' '
Mr. W. said, \i lien he conlidered that al
mod everyday some new conltriiCTioli w „ e j"
ther given to tlte conftit.ition, or some modi
of admmiftermg the government altered •
when they were told, that though such a thine
had been understood so a ltd so for two or three
years, it would bear a different conduction"
and now, when he saw they were about
[VclumM XIIE•grthd department to aur government, not
■contemplated by the conllitution, he owned
he was alarmed. Whenever he saw
ness of the navy so extensive, as to requi.- a
ifeparate department, he should vote for it;
but he thought it would not be wife to go on
to the establishment of new departments, be
fore there was btifinefs for them to do ; be
cause, whenever such a department wascon
ftitutcd, he had no doubt btifinefs would be
found for it to do, as the officer at the head
of it would be continually drawing out, and
laying before Congress plans for its increase.
As to what had been said about the line of
conduct adopted by gentlemen in this House,
he should fay nothing of it. He thought too
much had already been said on that subject,
•nd he believed it would be best to fufTer such
reflections to refute themselves.
Mr-J. Williams said, the only point in
dispute was, whether* ieparate office should
be established for the biifinefs of the navy, or
whether it should be put under the care of a \
6uperuvtendant in the War Department. He
wished the gentleman from Maflachufetts
(Mr. Otis) ha<i spared his observations, until
he had heard thole of the gentleman from
Maryland (Mr. S. Smith). It had appeared
to him that a Superintendant in the War De
partment would have been fufficient, and he
yet thought so. He did not think the biifi
nefs tif the navy was so great as to require a
separate establishment. There was more bii
finefs in the War Department in 1794 than at
present, and nothing was then heard of a new
department. He should not have opposed
this meafnre if he had not been convinced that
every measure taken to increase the navy be
yond it* present establishment, would have a
bad effedlon this country. It had been pro
posed last Winter to purchase all the live-oak
timber in the Southern States ; afterwards a
proposition was brought forward for the esta
blishment of Naval Yards. Those measures
had been defeated, and they were now called t
upon to establish a new department for this fa- tl
vourite objedt. He was not willing to do it. (
The gentleman from Maflachufetts fiaid there
would only be a difference belwixt making a a
new office and continuing to do the business L
in the War Department, of the salary of the a
chief officer; but if he looked at the second j
elaufe of the bill, he would find himfelf mis- t
taken, as there was in that provision for a r
principal clerk, and such other clerks as he t
shall judge neceflary. So that he may have a r
clerk for every port in the Union, if he plea- s
fes. If he represented, as the gentleman from
Maflachufetts does, a commereial interest, he f
might be as faVorable to a navy as him ; but e
as that was not the cafe, he was opposed to it. t
He gave his approbation to such appropriati- t
011s as he thought neceflary ; and if, in this r
instance, he differed in opinion from the gen- r
tleman from Maflachufetts, he should (land
excused. He believed with that gentleman, ,
that the commercial and agricultural interests
were closely connected ; they differed only as a
to the extent to which it was proper to carry
olir naval defence. He did not wiih, however, ;
at present, to rejeit the bill. He believed it ,
might be amended, and he had no objection
to ihe question being postponed for that pur- ,
pose. 1
Mr. Livingston fa'd, he was almost ,
tempted to Imile at the arrogant pretensions j
of some gentlemen in this House, in their
treatment of others, at least their equals on ,
this floor, whatever they might be out of (
doors, being equally with them Reprefenta- (
t'rves of the People. They were told by the ,
gentleman from Maflach jletts (Mr. Otis)
that oppotition was expedted, was looked for
from certain gentlemen ; that no argument
was neceflary on the occation, thcifc
members who were opposed to all measures of
defence, would oppose this measure also ; but
that those who had originated the measure
would cairy it into effect. This fimpls de
claration of a strength of party was also at
tended with a very handfbrne rrtmke of orie
of his colleagues (Mr. J. Williams) for hav
ing dared to doubt the propriety of the mea
sure before the committee. He was happy to
find this rebuke had produced itseffedt, and
that though his colleague was at firft very de
cidedly against the bill, he yas now disposed
to doubt; and the effect of another rebuke, he
fuppoled, would obtain his vdte in favour of
the new establishment. for his own part,
neither the rebuke, nor the preliminary ob
servations with which it was accompanied,
had produced any effect upon him. He did
very much doubt the propriety of the mea
sure ; for although there was a great deal of
bulinefs in the war office, and the fame
person could not be supposed to be acquaint
ed with military and naval affairs, if a ship
builderwas to have the appointment, hecould
not think such a person fit to be one of the
<reat council of the nation ; and it mult be
recolledted that the person who holds this of
fice will become one of the counsellors of the
Prelrdent on all great concerns.
But if the idea was adopted, that no per
son in the government was to have business
under his direction which he does not perfedt
ly understand, thisdivifion muftnot flop here.
Could it be/aidthat the Sec-retary of War had
a perfect knowledge of every thing under his
diredtion, except what related to the navy?
Certainly not. To be so, he muftnot only be
a perfett engineer, but be acquainted with the
conftrudtion of arms. To carry this idea to
its full extent, it would not only be neceflary
to have separate departments, but alfoagteat
variety of liibdivifions; they muff have, he
supposed, coinmiflioners of gun barrels and of
ramrods.
But it was f.iid, that the establishment of
of this new office would be the means of sav
ing money, and the excels of expenditure on
the frigates was pointed at as a proof of the
want of an officer of this kind ; but he believ
ed if other business was looked at which had
been immediately under the diredtion of the
Secretary of War —the frigate for the Dey of
Algiers for instance—it would be found tp
have been well and speedily done, which was
a proof that the Secretary of War could attend
to that business.
It was said that this establishment was ne
ceflary, in order to give an appearance of de
fence to Europe, as if the establishment of a
Department of the Navy was to have the ef
fedt to do away all our palt and to prevent
future injuries. But our appearance to Europe
vras not all ; the example of EurPpean coun
tries was mentioned. All were said to have a
Marino Department. The pradtice of Europe,
Mr. L. said, had proved itfelf to be a bad
one, as the Nawies of those countries, had
proved the ruin of thrtn.
Mr. L. would raake no reply to the insinu
ations, thrown out against gentlemen, which
represented them as being opposed to every
measure of defence, as not a queflien came
before the house in which the fame
ed charge had not been repeated ; and he sup
posed by and bv, that a new Post Office could
not be proposed, or the most trifling business
done, w itlvout a repetition of those charges.
The Yeas and Nay 6 were taken upon this
bill uoing to its third read ing, as follows :
0 YEAS.
Messrs. Allen, Mcflrs. Machir,
Bartlctt, Matthews,
Bayard, Morgan,
Champlin, Morris, t
Chapman, Otis, r
Cochran, , J. Pa»ker, f
Coit, Pinckney, a
Craik, Reed,
Danna, v Rutledge, f
Dennis, Schureman, \
Dent, Sewall,
Evans, Shepard, t
A. Foster, Sinnickfon, t
D. Foster, Skinner, 1
J. Freeman, N. Smith, '
Glen, S. Smith, ' i
Goodrich, Sprague, t
Grifwold, Thatcher, «
Grove, Thomson,
Harper, Thoulas,
Hindnian, Tillinghaft, I
Hofmer, VanAlen,
Imlay, Wadlworth,
Messrs. Baldwttij Messrs. Jones,
Bard, ••• Livingfton,
Benton, . Locke,
Blouut, Lyon,
Brent, Macon,
Bryan, M'Clenaehan
Bullock, M'Dowell,
T. Claiborne, Milledge,
W.Claiborne New,
Clay, W. Smith,
Davis, Sprigg,
Dawfon, Summer,
Elmondorf, Stanford,
Findley, A.Trigg,
Fowler, J-Trigg,
Gallatin, VanCortlandt
Gillefpie, Varnum,
Harrifon, Venable,
Hofmer, J. Williams,
Heifter, R,<ViHiams, .
Holmes, 41.
On motion of Mr. Harper, the house :
then took up the amendments of the Senate |
to the bill refperting the compensation of
Clerks.
Mr. Harper dated the effect of these
amendments to be, to give to the Secretary
of the Senate and the Clerk of, that house, an
addition of 250 dollars each to their present
salaries. He recommended an agreement to
these amendments as reasonable, as the sala
ries of these officers were fixed at the fame
time at which the salaries of the Clerks and
nferior officrrs were fixed, which had been
advanced.
Mr. Gallatin enquired what the present
salaries of these officers were. It wasanfwer
ed 1500 dollars a year, and two dollars a day
during the feflion of Congress. Mr. G. tho't
this fuflficient, and that since their salaries had
not been increased at a time when living was
much dearer than it is at present, or likely to
be, he could not consent to the proposed ad
vance.
The was taken by Yeas and Nays,
and negatived 36 to 28.
The following, being part of the proceed
ings of Monday, April 23, wereaccidently o
mitted in their proper course.
On motion of Mr. J. Williams, the house
went into a committee of the whole on the
bill for organizing, arming, and disciplining
the militia of the United States. Very soon
fter the committee was formed,
Mr. Otis wished the committee to rife, in
order to moi/ein the house, apoftponement of
the consideration of this bill till the next fefli
on of Congress. He was convinced that the ]
principle in the bill which went tp divide the
militia rnto afeledt and reserved corps, was a
good one ; but he did not think this was a
proper moment to make the new arrangement.
The bill contained, he said, a great variety
of detail, which would consume considerable
time to discuss, and after all, he did not be
lieve it would be got through this feflion. It
was probable, he said, that aprovifional army,
or foroe other arrangement, would be neces
sary for the present, in order to prepare for
any attack that may be made upon us ; and
ha thought it would be very wrong to disor
ganize the present system of militia at this
time, since he saw no good effect that could
be immediately produced by the change.
This motion wasfupported by Messrs. Skin
ner, Varnum, and T. Claiborne ; and oppos
ed by Meflrs. Shepard, S. Smith, R. Willi
ams, Nicholas, M'Dowell, and Macon. It
was negatived 3816 37.
The confidferation of the bill was then re
sumed and some progress made on it, when
• the committee rose, and the house adjourned.
Thursday, April 26.
MR. D. FOSTER, from the committee
of claims, made an unfavourable re
pott on the petition of Alexander Power, at
torney in fact for Edward Bryan, and others,
soldiers in the Pennsylvania line, which was
concurred in.
The bill for establishing an executive de
partment, to be denominated the department
of the navy, was read the third paf
fed, 42 to 27.
On motion, the house again i*efolved itfelf
[ into a committee of the whole on the bill ap
propriating for the military establishment for
■ the ytar 1798 ; fvhen the question for filling
. the hlanV in the quarter matter department
. with 200,000 dollars again recurring,
| Mr. Harper said, it would be recolledted
, that when the house last rose, it was for the
t purpose of affording time to make some dif
. crimination in the appropriations. The gen
s tlemanfrom Pennsylvania (Mr. Gallatin) had
done this, and it appeared te him correctly,
f Mr. H. enumerated the different items, and
the sums calculated for each. Theveflelson
, the Lakes he had no doubt would be an use
. ful objedt, and ought to be provided for, but
! not under the quarter matter department. He
1 would introduce it as a diftindt item ; but he
» did not know under what authority the vessels
f on the Ohio and Mifliflippi were conftrutted,
p or for what purpose they were wanted. Per
s haps it might have been for the lower part of
1 the Mifliflippi, from the idea of a rupture in
that quarter ; but though this might have
been the cafe, he was far from admitting the
_ principle that the war department had a right
a to determine the propriety ef such a measure.
. He believed, if such an expence was neceflary
t an appropriation ought to have been made by
e Congress. He was therefore willing to drop
. this item altogether. It was stated that the
a conftrudtion of these vessels was commenced;
; he was notwithstanding willing that it should
d be suspended, until some enquiry was made
<f j into the business, and Congress lhall pass a
l la** to authorize the expenditure. He could
. ! not fay these vessels were not neceflary ; but
h he was willing to fay they should not be pro
y vided for at present. Mr. H. again objected
e to the expence of 34,000 dollars far the trans
portation of ordnance and (tores from this ci
ty to Pittsburgh. As Congress had no a(Tu
d ranees of these being wanted, he should be
- s willing to omit this item also. He wished
likewise to enquire whether ordnance could
is not be procured in that .country, without be
ing at so great an expence in transporting
them from this city.
( Mr. H. still wiflied the blank to be filled
with 200,000 dollars. The former eflimate
was isS,ooo dollars, but he believed it woulc
be well to appropriate the even fuin he had 1
named, as the average' »f the expence of the a
five la(t years in this department (:is he had
already (tared) had been 250,003 do.tars. rr
Mr. Sewul wished to know whether the 1
gentleman from S. 6*ii>fliia had had any con- t<
veffation with the Secretary t>f War rtfpett- ti
ing the vellels conftruiting on the I.akes and
the Ohio ? He supposed it was not expected w
that anadt should be paiTed to enable the Pre- ii
lident to replace veil'els used as transports, o
when worn out. Perhaps it might be necei- e
fary to arm these transports occasionally, as q
they were subject to the attacks of the likii
anS" • n v 41
Mr. Ha R per said, he did not objeft to the t
vetrels on the Lakes ; he meant to propose a t
separate appropriation for them. It was to ~]
tbe vessels on the Ohio and MiffiHippi that r
he objected, which were not wanted for
tranfportatiton.
Mr. Craik did not think the committee f
were -prepared to fay these velfels were not a
wanted. He had so full a confidence in the r
Secretary of War, that he was ready to vote \
for all the items which lie had recommended, c
He wilhed, therefore, that the decision upon \
this'queftion might be postponed, until fur- r
ther information was received on the fuljjkct.
The rifingof the committee was advocated
by MefTrs. Craik, Dayton and Rutledge, and
opposed by Melfrs. Harper, S. Smith and
Gallatin. The question for riling was nega
tived.
Mr. Macon said, he was at a loss how to
vote on this fubjedl. Whatever sum was ap- .
propriated for this department, there was al
ways a deficiency ; it was not, therefore,worth <
while wo be very particular. j
Mr.'Gallatin moved to fill the blank
with 150,000 dollars, which was the sum he
had proposed on a former day, lince which, he (
laid, the house had received a number of ftate
-1 mrnts from the Secretary,of War, in order to
: induce a larger appropriation. As there
seemed to be a general concurrence ot opinion <
to reftritt the expences of the war d«partment,
he wifiied some gentleirian better able to do
it than himfelf, would compare the number
of troops in service with the sums there re
quired. Mr. G. noticed a number ot ite-ms
which appeared to him anaccountably extra
vagant, and contrasted the very great expence
incurred on the north western frontier with
that of the troops employed on the seaboard.
M. G. also took a view of the expences un
der this head from the year 1789 to the pre
sent time, in order to shew that 150,000 dol
lars would be a fufficient appropriation.
After commenting pretty freely and at large
on the estimates from the War Office, Mr. G.
said, he believed there Was some radical de
feat with refpedt to the connexion subsisting
betwixt the Accountant's Department, the
Treasury and War Departments, which pre
vented a proper investigation of accounts. So
far as relates to the Treasury Department, the
accounts were always very clear, and there
was no ground of complaint ; but from the
connexion which subsists betwixt the War
Department and the Accountant's Depart
ment, tnere seemed to be a want of respon
sibility.
In the details which had been laid before
the house, Mr. G. said, he found items under
the heid of contingencies, which he should ne
ver have expefted to have found there ; one
was for the pay of an Infpettor of the troops
and garrisons of the United States at a salary
of 60 dollars a month. He could not fay such
an officer wis not necessary ; but if he was, lie
would fay he ought to have been provided for
bylaw. The other item was for a much lar
-1 ger sum, viz. for the pay of an Engineer of the
fortifications of the United States at a salary
of 3,000 dollars a year, which was a salary
greater than that of the Secretary of War. It
appears this Engineer was engaged for three
years ; but after he had been some time in the
' service, 3,000 dollars were given him over
and above his pay to relinquifb hi* contrast.
After a lew ornery aliens From M. DaSTa"
in favour of the Secretary of War,
Mr. Shepard rose and went over the dif-
I ferent items contained in the statement read
yesterday, particularly the boatmen, 13,000
dollars, the packhorfemen 5,000, the wag
goners 7,000, the labourers 3,000, the ar
mourers 6,000, the artificers 14,000, hire cvf
" ex pre lies 6,000, and fuel 8,000 dollars.
He could not tell how so many boatmen,
packhorfemen and waggoners could be em
- ployed (for it was not for boats, packhorfes
1 and waggons, but for the men alone); and
■ what so many labourers could be employed
in he could not imagine. He did not fee
why the soldiers could not do all the labour
e the army had to "'do tjiemfelves. When he
- was in the army, he was at no expence like
- this. And how the repairing of the arms for
, 3000 men could cost 6,000 dollars, he could
s not tell. Nor could he fee how 14,000 dol- j
lars could be expended on artificers. If we 1
- were to be involved in war, it would not do,
t to expend money in this manner. It was ve
" ry easy to write down 30, 50 or 100,000 dol
lars for this or that, but when the taxes came
f to be laid, the money would not be so easily
raised. Mr. S. palled overa number of arti
r cles, till he came so the fuel. He thought
r 8,000 dollars a year for fuel, in a country 1
t where the trees were ready to fall upon them,
was a very exorbitant charge. Whilst he
i was in the army, it never cost him sixpence
e for fuel. The United States had better pur
- chafe the land upon which the timber grows
- at once ; they would be able to get it for a
i much less sum. If these expences were to be
. incurred for 5,000 men, what, he afked,would
1 be the expence of an army of 30,000 men !
n This estimate, he was sure, mull be much too
- large ; and it became Congress to be careful
t how they gave encouragement to such charg
e es as these ; for the country would scarcely
2 be able to support the expence of any confi
s derable eftabliftiment, if mote economy was
, not used.
The question on filling the blank with
f 200,000 dollars was put and negatived, with
n out a division.
e Mr. Craik moved to fill the blank with
e 224,000 dollars, in order to take in an item
t recommended by the Secretary of War.. Mr.
C. thought the charafter of this officer had
y been very illiberally and very unfairly attack
y ed by the gentleman from Pennsylvania. If
p this gentleman had a'ifed improperly hemight
e be called to account, when he would have an
; opportunity of speaking for himfelf. [The
i Chairman said these remarks were not in or
e der : no such charges fud been made.] Mr.
a ,C. thought the observations of the gentleman
d to whom he alluded, mult have been so un
it derftood.
The motion of Mr. Craik not being fecond
d »d, it fell to tlie ground.
Mr. Gallatin moved to fill the blank
- with 150,000 dollars. He said, that with re
- fpedt to the integrity the Secretary of War,
ie lie did not doubt it in the lead ; as to his ta
d lents he had had no opportunity of forming a
d correft judgment of them ; he was however,
:- some judge of accounts, and he saw enough
ig of them, to authorize the declaration which
he had made, as to the improper connection
;d of the different departments, He had fpok
te en of fa6U only.
Id The question for filling the blank with
150,000 dollars, was put and carrieJ, without J w
a division. . * e
After agreeing to several other items, a- ar
mongft which was one for the vellels on the j a
Lakes, the committee rose, the ho 'fe 3 S TC j f e
to the amendment, ani the bill was ordered
to be enCTofled for a thirtj.reading;. •
Mr. Craik presented a set ot resolutions w
which had been agreed to at a public meet- si (
' ing at Georgetown, approbating the mealures j;
ot the Executive with refpeft to France, and
expreffing'he firmeft reliance on the councils
of the nation. .
Mr. Thomas presented an addrels ' rcm j
.upwards of 4000 citizens of Philadelphia and
the liberties, approbatory of the measures ot p,
the Executive (mentioned in a former paper), p
These resolutions and address had theulual Ql
reference. . , , . r ei
The Speaker then laid before the house
Mr. Pirtckney's letter on the subject of the
presents offered to him by the courts of Spain
and Great Britain (which has already been IV
mentioned) alking the decision of Congress c ]
whether he flionld be allowed to receive them
or not, which, after some few obfervatio ns ,
was referred to a felett committee of th rec
members. Adjourned
d
FOREIGN ARTICLES. tl
R ASTAE>r, March 4- tc
The following is the answer cf the French c ]
minister Tieilhard and Bonnier, to the note j,
landed them by Count Metternich, by or
dei; of the Congress, relative to the ceflion ft
of the left Bank of the Rhine to the French h
Republic : ai
" The undernamed have received the note b
transmitted to them by Count Metternich. Q
and beg Jeave to return the folio winga-.ifwer: p
—The Freneh republic, in the beginning £
of the felfionofthis Congress, has immedi
ately and frankly declared the basis upon
which peace can be concluded ; It is there
fore determined not to vary from it. The
jultice and necessity of ceding the left bank J
of the Rhine to the French republic has f,
been candidly set forth in the notes hereto- ]i
fore transmitted by the undersigned, in fl
which, they trust, they have also fully s
shewn that it will be for the mutual advan-
tage of all parties concirned. The French I
republic did not expe<S that so much artifice 1;
would be made use of in order to delay the j a
determination of thi* article. It is new in- (j
filled on to make an immediate declaration j
on this head.—The Miniftets of the French ! r
republic,- therefore demand of the congress, j
to declare, whether they agree to this arti- r
cle of not, without loss or time. e
" Raftadt, 14th Ventofe. 6th year T ]
of the French republic (4th > c
March, 1798.") J (
March 8. 1
Yesterday, in the fitting of this Congress, j
theanfwer of the French minister of the 4th •,
inft. was read, and debated. This is the 1
32d day's fitting of this body. It is tho't ■,
certain, that the French will have ceded to 1
them, the whole of the left bank of the
Rhine. The advantages obtained over the '
Swiss have much contributed to facilitate ]
the proceedings of the congress in this bufi- ]
ness.
STOCKHOLM, March 2.
The couriers between the place and Pa
ris are very frequeat. There are also sever
al arrived from St. Pef£rfburgh, which give
rife to t»any conjr&ures.
The elegant und momimeot in .
honor of the immortal LINNAEUS, is
completed and publickly erefted.
) PARIS, March 5.
On opening the papers arrived from
" Rome, a fmalf iron chest was found, which
contained a number of important correspon
dences*
! The famous Gregoire has addressed the
s Grand Inquisitor of Spain on the fubjedl of
i the Spanish Inquisition. He recommends
* its annihilation.
® The Commissioner of government at Ca
„ lais has thus written, to the minister of the
: Interior. " I hoid it Tufficiently important
r to give to you the information that the Ci
i toyenne Fournier, on the 12th ult. was de
■ livered of fix living children, three boys
: and three girls, but which died soon after
they were born."
: HAtJUE, March 6*
f A new man of war, of 68 guns, called
- the Dogger Bank, was yesterday launched
1 at Rotterdam, itthe presence of a number of
the representatives of the peoplp, the French
c minister Delacroix, Admiral De Winter,
e gentral Soubeit, &c. a grand salute was
- fired on the occasion, and the master builder
s was honored with the fraternal kiss by the
5 French minister.
i Since themonthof of November last there
, have been built at Rotterdam, two ships of
0 68, and a frigate of 32 guns. In eight days
1 a keel will be laid for another 68.
The veflels damaged in the late engage
[ tnent are repairing with the greatefl expedi
tion. 1
i FRaNKPORT, March 10.
We have news of importance from Basle
(Switzerland) The French and the troops
of Berne aRd Solothurn have had three bloo
n dy battles near Niddau, Lengnau and Dorn
i bach. Most of the families of consequence
. have left Berne for Luzerne. The Switzers
f fought couragioufly, but were overcome by
>t the French. At Lengnau, they loft 8 can
£ non, and had 200 prisoners made, many of
! whom were officers. In another battle, they
. loft upwards of 1000 men, and some hun
n dreds sprang into the fca.
It has been said here that Solothurn was
given into the hands of the French through
treachery of the commandant.
BRUSSELS, Feb. 20.
t At a dinner lately given by citizens Vif
-- conti, one of the Cisalpine ambassadors gave
a the following toast : The fix direaorics of
r > the fixfifter-Republics, one and indivisible,
h viz. the Batavian, Cisalpine, French, Helve
m tian. Ligurian and Roman.
ARAU, February 14.
th 1 A uieflage from the government of Berne
was ifie day before yesterday recited at Ltf
fern, wherein the former claimed the aflilU
ance stipulated in f rmer treaties from the
latter canton. But the democrats of Lu
ferne sent the following answer : As soon as
you shall allow equal rights to your fubjefla
we shall be ready to unite with you and facrf
fice, our property and lives infupport of the!
Helvetian independence. If you hedtate to
do this, you need not expeft any affilta hce
CONSTANTINOPLE, January 30.
Besides the numerous land forces pre«r
paring against the rebel Pauvan Ogin, the
Porte hasjordered the whole fleet to be fitted
out, and manned . i?,ooo sailors are to bs_
enlisted in the harbours of the Black
and the Islands of the Archipelago Ihe
fleet will be ready to fail the middle o£
March, destined, it is supposed, for the Ar
chipelago.
PERSIA, o(HpV>er «6, p-y
The disturbances which arofeonaccountof
the succession to the throne Were of but (hort
duration, and Persia again appears to enjoy
the bleflings of peace. Baba-Cban, nepbevr
of the lateEunucli.whofe memory is dtvoted
to everlasting execration, met but few ;bfta
clts in afcendii'g the throne. Supported
liy an army of 60,000 men, and mailer
of immense riches, which he inherited from
his uncle, he has hitherto triumphed over all
his rivals : Sadi-Chan, the moll formidable
among them, laid down his arms, having
been twice defeated, and submitted. Baba-
Chan made .him governor of an important
province. 'll unite in commending Baba-
Chan our new sovereign.
ROME, Febrnary 13.
General Betjthier previous to his entrance
into this City, published ; that, as divers
Proclamations were forged here tinder hii
signature, whoeverfhould undertake to pub
li/h such again, and be convitled thereof,
(hould inllan tiy be (hot. The two Cardi
nals Albani and Bufchi from V orkgot off in
good time toTerracina. His Holiness the
I Pope is 111 the meantime guarded in his Pa
' lace by 500 soldiers—divers other palace*
j and likewise those belonging to absent Car
dinals, are feal'd up with the French seal.
j The French immediately after their ar
j ri«al here laid the City under contribution
infthe sum of four millions cash, two
millions in provisions and 3,000 liorf.
es. The several Cardinals, Somnaglia,
Roverella, Carraffa, Trajetto, and Caran.
dina, as likewise the Princes Gcuftiniana,
Gabrieli, Calano, the arch-duc Brafch'i,
besides two Prelates were all taken as hosta
ges, and the Fiscal Barbari was arretted,
and all fufpieious civil officers were sent a
way. The murderers of General Duphot
j are escaped. Our Republic will include
those provinces, which were left to the
Pope in the treaty of Peace at Taltntino.
The. civil military is dismissed, and the Po
pilh troops wereall disarmed. Tfte French
have requested of the Neapolitan Court,
40,000 meafure3 of grain and otl. r provi
sions. The number of French troopswhich
by degrees entered the City is 12,000 men
Gen. Mafiena who will command them is
hourly expe&ed—be patted the 16th inft.
thro' Bologna. Gen. Earthier is destined to
the expedition againftEngland, others fay he
-■ is togo on fomg other important expedition.
From the Western Telegraphe,
HISTORY is a narrative of divine Pro
vidence or God'sgovernment of the world—
'and the Jewish hillory as contained' in the
bible is the more inftru&ive as ths finger of
G >d is there constantly pointed ;out. We
read otherhiftories asmcn fee a puppet Ihowr
: ata distance.But in the bible we are brought
F near add as it were let behind the scene and
; fee the wires and springs by which all the
motions are directed. If we read the liiftory
or attend to the tranfadlions of any nation,
: wefhallfindthat all nations, like the Jews, are
t under the immediate government of God ;
. that their fateis generally according to their
- conduft ; that righteousness exaltelh a na
s tion ; but fin is the reproach of any people;
r that when corrupted by prosperity, they for
get God, he forfakes the m to misfortune ;
and that when awakened by distress they re
turn to him,he comforts and raises them up.
1 It is true he sometimes to accomplilh the
1 purposes of his providence gives prosperity
f to one guilty nation, m rely to life it as a
1 fcourgeon the fins of others. The wicked in
, great power spread for a while like a green
5 bay-tree. But it is soon cut off and forgot
r ten. It mayalways be diftinguilhed, whether
e prosperity is given by God to any nation
as a blessing or a carfe, by their spirit, tem
e per, and condu& under it. If they are hum
s ble, jnft, and reverential of God, we may
s expedl their greatness will be liable. If they
are iufoler.t, loppreffive and irreligious, de
- pend upon it, they are raised not for their
- own benefit, but for the calamity of others ;
and their deftruftion will be sudden.
France seems now to beinthis state. She
is Babylon, a golden cup in the Eord'shand,
e that hath made all the earth drunken of ljer
,s wine, therefore the nations are mad. A fire
- is kind ed in his anger and (hall burn unto
1- the lowed Hell, and (hall consume the earth
e with herincreafe, and feton fire the founda
s tion of the mountains. For they are a nation
y void of counsel, neither is there any under
-- Handing in them. Their wine is the vine of
if Spdom and of the field of Gomorrah : their
y grapes are of gall, their clutters are bitter.
1- Their wine isthepoifon ofdragons,& thecruel
venom of asps. Is not this laid up ia floro
js with me and sealed up among my treasures ?
h To mebelongeth vengeance andrecompence
their foot (hall slide in due time. for the dair
of their calamity is at hand and the thingi
that (hall come upon them make haste, For
f- the Lord (hall judge his people, and repent
ire himfelf for his servants ; when he feeth that
of their power is gone, and there is none (hut
e, up or left.
C' After spreading calamity over the half of
Europe, France comes rio4v to diflurb the
peace of Artie ica. As Alexander was ne
ver fatisfied while there was'any power to
ne subdue France, i; ncverfatisfied while there"W any happiness to destroy. We have iaiie
her no injustice. we can do her no igury,
we are free outfelves, and we rejoicedin her
freedom and ffionld yet cordially exult in
the permanent eftahlilhment ol a couftitu
tional Government, liberty, and happiness
in that nation. What hut a domineering,
spirit of deftru&ion could lead France to at
tack America ! We have tried every means J
of conciliation. She will not listen unless
we facrifice our happiness, our liberty, our
honour, our independence to her baft haugh
ty pafiions.
In this (late what should America do
What did (he do when required in like man
ner by Britain to crouch under tyranny ?
After all pacific measures are exhaulled, let
America set her confidence in God, and un
der his protection exert her means of ielf de
fence; A just cause and a fear of God
gives a confidence and courage which n>- (
thing else can inspire.—There is a boldnefr
in virtue which fe<?ures success, when its
strength is animated by a trust in divine
Providence and favour. A bad cause and a
■want of hope and faith make the endeavours
languid- and the arm nervtlefs. Conscience
makes cowards of us all
The President of the United States con
scious of thejuftice of our cause, of the rec
titude of his motives, and of the sincerity of
his endeavours for reconciliation and peace,
lias piotifly determined to awaken the minds
of the American people to an 3ppeal to hea
ven, their true resource, their certain help
in time'of trouble, He has proclaimed the
9th of May a day of fatting, humiliation,
and prayer. If we mean to trust in the favour j
of God we mull cultivate virtue. And pie- |
ty is necessary to enforce virtue. Let ail |
friends to their country now in the hour of j
its distress turn their hearts to God :
we have a go "d caafe and in him we (Vail
find a true frie nd. Let the day be observed
accrrding to the proclamation. Even where
there is 110 minister or regular congregation,
let the people aflemble at their ordinary
places of worship. The quakers worship e
ven in silence. Let some of the most intelli
gent deliver their ferttimentson our condition
and our duties and let the others regarrd with
an attentive ear and a fiucere heart.
[Herefollows the PrefidenCsproclamation.]
These are the sentiments of true piety and
.exprcfiions of the fear of God. Let us now
turn our eyes to France : and we (hall fee that
"their Rock is not as our rock, "seven our enemies
themselves being judges.
" Hebtrt, a profeffed atheist, at the inftigi- -
tion of the execrable Condoreet, Jfet up the
«« Journal it Veritable Pere au Cbene."
This piper was filled with blasphemy, and ob
scenity of the grofleft kind, and was distributed
•with a most.pernicious activity.
" The blessed effefts of this patriotic print
were not long in manifefting themselves.—The
people, accustomed to fee the religion of their
ancestors daily reviled, learned to ihink of it
with indifference, and soon became ripe for the
V Farce" whichCordorcet andhis atheistical as
sociates were preparing for them.^
" Gohet, the revolutionary oi(hop of Paris,
appeared at the bar of the Constituent Assembly
with his inferior clergy, and made a formal ab
juration of cbriflianity. He threw himfeff, he
said, on the mrcy of the nation, for having so
long deceived them with the ablurdities of the
im'poftot Pbrijl, and his pretended Father,jwhofe
dodlrines he now abjured with detestation and
horror j and he assured them, that in future he
would acknowledge no other deity than rtafon.
Here began the ccrennnv f° much admired
by the Jacobin prints'. " Hebert kept a (trumpet
of the name of Mormoro, the wife of a rene
gade Corfican. This iniferable prostitute was
fixed upon toreprefent the Goddess of Keafon ;
. she wa6 fantaftically tricked out, and Ird at the
head of a grand procefiion, to the church of
Notre Dame, the cathedral of Paris :—here Die
was solemnly placed on a throne of turf and
flowers, while Gobet, and the reft of the revo
lutionary clergy, burnt incense on an altar,
ere£l«d just before her.
i< While this was performing, the cannon an
nounced the inrtallation of the new Goddess ;
the enlightened people of Paris fell prostrate at
the signal, and paid their brutified adorations at
the feet of a street walker and an adulteress ! ! 1"
They wrote over the entrance of thrir church
yards, " This is the place of everlasting deep."
And so completely was it supposed that religion
w» deflroyed in France that Robespierre thought
proper to propose a decree that the French na
tion believed in a God.
If we compart- the conduit of our President
with thut of the French government may we not
well fay that their Rock is not as our Rock, even
our enemies themselves being judges ? And if
we believe in a God and his Prudence can we
think that profperitv is to the French but
as a flourge to other nations* ;.that it will last
longer than chat end is accomplished ; or that if
we put our trt.ft in God We need fiar what they
can do unto u? ?
" Let the well disposed people of this coun
try, reflefl ferioefly on these paragraphs.
" Are they content to exchange rational liber
ty for anarchy, and the religion of their forefa
thers for atheism in its most horrid form ? If so,
they will do well to attend these zealots of infi
delity; these faithful copyists of the Pere du
Chene i they are the mouth pieces of tht party ;
and they speak to us in thunder.
" But we have better hopes: we trust our
countrymen regard their blasphemies with ab
horrence, and are well aware of the folly of
confiding in the hypocritical pretensions of those
men, who begin their patriotic career by rcqsir-
Ing in to renounce our peace here, and our hopes
ps happinefi hereafter.
For Sale, or Charter.
I,—MX. THf SHIP
LIBER
LAYING at Vine Street Wharf
' ' burthen per register two hundred
SSoe»^§s£ja2and eighty-two tons. Thi c veflcl
has been about eighteen months off the flocks, and
lately returned from a voyage to Holland. She is
a prime failcr,ca*lhe armed with 1e 1% difad vantage
to her Utwage than any vessel in thisport and may
<be fta at a moderate expence. Apply to
JOUN SKYRIN,
' ll Landeabergei'» Wharf.
. may 5 diw
Madeira Wine.
A few pipes of remarkably fine Madeira, fit
for immediate use, and at a reduced price—For
file by JAMES YARD.
may a daw
W AlS'lt-U
A Good Cook—also a Man
Servant who understands Heufe work.
butvof good charafler seed apply—Enquire at
this office. it reay a
Xi)eoasem*
PHILADELPHIA,
TUESDAY NEVENING, May 8.
(C}" To-morrow being the National
Fast, the next number of this Gazette
will not be published till Thursday.
Yesterday, the Houte of Representatives of
the United Suites was engaged in'difcufling
the propofitionsreported byjthe committee ot
ways and means on the fubje-t of a Dir.tCt
Tax of Two Millions proposed to be railed
fromlands, houses and (laves. Mr D. Fos
ter opened the debate by withdraw ing the
motion which he made on Saturday to ftnke
out the word annually, and pmpofing in its
"(lead, to add to the end of the resolution, the
following words viz- " "> l>*,callefled for a
term not exceeding years, provided that
the Icgijlature of the United States, Jbal! be at all
times at liberty n fubfliiute such o/Jvk ilvty or tax
of equal 'value in lieu thereof, f' the discharge
of any debt orloancQnJrici?d*on the cfcJjt of the
said tax, as they may 'thinkproper, i his mo
tion produced a very debate. It was
finally negatived 46 o 35. Mr. D. Foster
then renewed h.s motion, tor finking out
the word aunually, wfych was carried, there
being6o votes tor it. Mr. Repd afterwards
moved, to amend the second resolution,
which directs the manner ot laying tax, by
striking out the word uniform (viz. that th«
tax be uniformly laid throughout the United j
States 011 lands, houses and slaves) and ad- j
ding to the end of it " and fucb other estate j
luithin each particular slate as is taxable accord
ing to the eflablifbed rule of direSl taxation in
fucb fate." This motion was negatived, there
being oniyji votes for it. The refoltitions
were then referred to the Committee of Ways
and Means to report a bill or bills accordingly.
The following was the Answer of the President of
the United States to the Address of the citizens
of Boston, which appeared in this paper a few
days ago.
Ta the inhabitantt and citizens of Bofion.
GENTLEMEN,
I THANK you for the declaration of your ap
probation of the measures adopted by me relative
to our foreign relations, to conciliate the French
Republic, and to-accommodate all exilting differen
ces upon terms compatible with the fafaty, the in
tereftand the dignity of the United States.
Your high and elevated opinion of, and confi
dence in the virtue, wisdom and patriotism of the
national government, and fixed resolution to ftp
port, at tha risque of your lives and fortunes, such
measures as may be determined to be necessary to
promote and fccure the honor and happiness of the
United States, do you honor; and are perfectly in
character,
It niuit however be a very unnatural and pecu
liar slate of things, to make it necessary or proper in.
you, or in any other American in your behalf, to de-'
clare to the world what the world ought to have
knownandacknowledged without hefitation,that you
are not humiliated under a colonial spirit of fear,
that you are not a divided people, in any point which
involves the honor, fafcty and essential rights of
your country, that you know your rights, and are
determined tafupport them.
(Signed) JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May 7, 1798.
Upwards of nine hundred of the Young
Men of the £ity of New-York afTembled
on the evening of the sth instant to address
the President of the UnitedrStates, declar
ing their unequivocal approbation of the
wife and dignified conduft of our executive
with refpedt to France, and pledging them
selves to be in readiness at a moment's warn
ing, to obey the fummonsof their country,
at all hazards, the threatened
dissolution of het cotiilituted authoritiis.
Desertions from Congress.
MR. FENNO,
As you were so obliging as to publish, some
d*ys fiace, some ftri&tires on those members of
Congrefr who have fled from their duty at a
time, of unexampled difficulty and danger, I
must request the publication of some further ob
fervations on this interesting fubjeift. Although
I could not flatter myfelf that any remarks I
have made or (hall make, would either recall the
fugitives to a sense of (hame & duty or prevent
the defertion'of others, yet f had hoped that the
perplexing and alarming situation of our coun
try ripening faft to some great event —the embar
raffed state of public affairs, in a groat measure
unprepared for the serious state of things that
seems to tie rapid'y pi effing upon us—the
indifpenfible necessity for wisdom, celerity amt
energy in our measures and provisions, and the
painful anxiety and uncertainty that agitates the
public mind would have had some influence in
holding men who hava voluntarily assumed pub
lie rrfponfibility, to the faithful discharge of
those duties and a faithful gnardianftnp over that
country whose faterefts in their fidelity. Great
God ! what shall we fay and think of men who
will desert fuoh high an I interesting duties and
leave their country to take its chance ; to (land
or fall as it (hall happen ; to be a prey to its foes
who are never cau;;ht napping, who never de
sert their attack on its prosperity and fafety, to
gratify fbmetrifling whim, to anlwer some paltry
purpose. Such men are more unworthy of public
confidence, are more deserving public indigna
tion than Gallatin er Giles, or the most invete
rate foes of the government. If we are ruined,
thefe mtn answer for it to their confcieuces
and tkeir country But can they not be com
pelled to do their duty ? Is it at their option to
leave us to definition or not ? Why do not their
constituents fend them back to ihe feat of i»o»
eminent with reproach and indignation ? This
must be done—l would have them sent back like
the criminals they are. Do they not betray their
country —do they not give her up to ruin ? And
is this, no crime—no treason ? Tenfenators are
now absent with very little profpet of their re
turning, at leaf! as to the greater part of them.
Abfenlees, May Jft, from the Senate,
One from Malfachufetts
Two from Vermont
One from New York
Two from New-Jersey
One from Pennfylvanie
One from Delaware
One from TennefTee
One from Geergii.
0" -The Printers of the United Srates are re
queued to republifh the above.
VOLUNTEER CORPS.
The Youth of North and South Mul
berry Wards, who are desirous of form
ing themselves into a Uniform Volun
teer Corps are requested to meet on Fri
day evening, i ith inft. at the House of
J. Hardy, Swan Tavern, North Third
Street.
May 8.
COLUMBIA'S CALL.
Thou God of hosts inspire my song,
Give to my foul et he rial fire 5
Teach me to fingof peace and war:
Of peace, sweet peace,
The Virgin's themf,
The matains wish, j
And all good men's desire.
Columbia, blefs'd by peace,
H«td in union's vast embrace,
With equal liberty and laws : .
Securely are,
The rich, the poor, j
The child, and fpotife,
In their refpeftive place.
Behold her numbers, great increase,
Her commerce spread on all the seas ;
Her cities trade, her fruitful fields ;
Science rising,
Arts improving ;
Thy bleflings these,
Fait liberty, and peace.
But hark ! the diftnnt dangers, furc,
Her (hips assail, and threat, that peace,
On the Atlantic, as they roll,
From common foes,
Plunder, and spoil,
On sea, on land,
Expeft ; defend ; make haste.
Sons of Columbia, arise I
Your country calls, for war prepare ;
Equip your fleet, to arms ! to arms 1
Protcftion
Give, liberty,
Your property,
Lives, and all, all that's dear.
Remember how your fathers fought,
With Washington the wife, and brave ;
Real independence, was the prize :
Given to you,
Preserve it pure,
In life, 'till death ;
Nor yield it at the grave.
That Washington, atVernon's mo'int,
Columbia's sons, his brothers all,
His Country still surveys, and loves :
His life, with their's,
In war he h®lds,
As held in peace,
Devoted to their call.
Then freeman brave, mature in age";
And you, her rising, gallant youth,
With Adams in the civil state ;
And Washington
In arms with you,
A6l well your parts :
Success is yours—'tis truth.
Smiling peace once more return'd,
Shall gladden every heart with ease :
The country wife, and village inaid,
Happy to find
The men at home,
Will each, her part
Well play, to cheer, and please.
Commerce (hall spread her cauvafs wide ;
And tillage, with her sweaty face,
Will give us plenty for our toil.
While public good,
And household joy,
Will be the boon,
Of valor, love, and peace.
By a Senator of the United Statet.
May 6th, 1798.
_____ ]
At an Ele&ion held at the Library,
for the choice of ten Directors and a Treasurer
of the Library Company of Philadelphia, for
the ensuing year, the following Gentlemen were
duly eleiSled, to •■wit.
dirsctors.
Jofiah Heaves Mordecai Lewis
Richard bells Thomas Parke
fobn Kaigbn Samuel t M. Fax
Richard H T iJlar fofepb P. Narris
fames Read John Bleakley.
Treasurer.
Jabn Dorfrj.
* iii.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
New-Tori, May 7.
Barque Eliza, Geffrey "Guadaloupe
Brig Polly, Simpfon Jamaica 26
Sloop Cornelia, Hubbell, do. 26
Schr True Blue, Hobby N.Providence 9
Sloop Harry, Johnfoti do.
Schr. Tredwell, Bartram Barbadoes 21
Balladore, Gardner .Gibraltar 33
Hazard, Kelly Port-au-Prince 19
Bcflon, May 3.
This day arrived, the excellent and faft
failing (hip Herald, armed with 14 guns
Edward "Davis, commander, in 45 days from
London : failed in co. the lßtl> March from
Portsmouth, with the following
Ships Minerva. Turner, Boston ; Ga
len, Mackay, do ; Nancy, Joy, do. Fac
tor, Kemp, New-York; Two Friends,
Gardner, do. Industry, Rudd, do. Belvi
dere, and Carlisle, Bryden, of Bal
timore ; Maria, Inglis ; Pacific, Kennedy;
and Carolina, , of Charleston ; Re
becca, Carran, Norfolk ; Juno, Beard,
Wilmington, barque Adrians, , Phil
adelphia ; brigs Helen, Patte«rfon, York
town, Pallas, Cooke, Charleston ; Orion,
Ripe, Portfirouth, N. H. Eliza, Benfon,
Baltimore ; Vine, , Norfolk, convoy
ed by his Britannic Majesty's (hip-the St.
Alban's and a (loop of war. On the 26th
were joined by the convoy from Cork, con
fiding of the (hips Packet, Delight, Vifto
ry, Hibernia of Boston ; Severn, Chefa
peak, Swan, America, Alliance ; Warren,
Dispatch of New Yori ; Manchester, Phil
adelphia ; Sydney, Baltimore : Little Wil
liam, Norfolk ; Accepted Mason, Wif
caffet ; Mary, Portfmonth ; Eleven Sons,
New-London ; Kevolution, JFludfon ; Fox
well, Pepperelboro ; Venus, Petfon. Ken
nebec ; barques Neptune, Portsmouth ;
Albany, Hudson ; brigs Sally, Norfolk,
Ranger, Baltimore ; America, Wifcaffet;
besides 6 or 8 vessels whose nan-.es could not
be ascertained. On the 28th, in long. 15,
in a fog, loft the convoy ; March 30, was
chafed by a frigate, which brought us too,
after running 15 hours to the eastward ; it
proved to be his Britannic Majesty's frigate
the Cleopatra, treated politely, and inform
ed us that he had rftaken the William Penn,
of and from Philadelphia ; also, a French
privateer of i6gun«and 130 men. On the
31ft, was chafed by a privateer brig, who
came near, but on feeing die gun?, {h.er.d
off.
Ship Minerva, S. D. Turrer, v corniin
der frflm London, left the Downs the I lih'
and Port l'mouth the 18th with the Ac t.—
On the ift April, »he ship V 6Wy, Spaf
ford, of Boston, bound to New-York, saw
her heaving hercargo overboard, which con
"fifted of (lates ; (he was immediately reliev
ed by the Commodore, who sent ten men
to her aflillance ; on the 3d, in a heavy gale
lat. 42, 26, long. 17, 53, wind south saw
the fame (hip in distress bor? down to lend
her afliftance laid by him 6 hours ; "after a
confutation on board, they determined not
to ain't her ; (he is supposed to have returned
to Cork. March 13, the St. Albans board
'ed and sent into Falmouth the American
(hip Patty, Campbell from Tcneriffi', bound
to Hamburg, having Spanish papers-~wt.
board; which (hip was boarded the day be
fore by a French privateer and fuffered to
proceed. The fleet may be expedted ia all
enough to t?e captured, 't cannot be gttri- ;
buted to want of attention on ihe part of
capt. Pender, Commodore of the convoy.
Pajfengers in the Minerva—Messrs. Dick
afon, Frazer, Cunningham, Morgan, Cre
fey, Wright, Apthorp and Skinner.
Pajfengers in the Herald—Messrs. Ap-.
thorp, Hilliard. Lang, Tibbs and Wayne,
Captain Davis oncoming into the har
bour fired a salute of 14 guns.
A second c.onvoyfor America wasappoint
ed to fail the firft week in May.
arrived schooner Phenix, Gale, Rotterdam, 50
days. Left there brig Ann, l.ord, of Boston, to
fail in 5 weeks for Surrinam i brig Columbia,Cof
fin, of and for New York, in 5 dey*; brig Han
nah, Swan, of and tofiil for MarMehead in a fort
right ; capt/ Stever, in a brig of
to fail next day for Dublin.; failed in co. with 1 ship
of Newburyport, bound to Dublin, and captain
Stowell, in a brig I'ound to Philadelphia. Spoke
March ig, 6 leagues N the of Whits, Hip
I.ucia, Chapman, ot Baltimore, hound to Lion
don, 27 days out, all well. April 20, lat 42
long, s4, (poke ship John, Ingraham, of Boston,
from Charltfton, bound to Copenhagen, 18 days
From LLOYD'S LIST, March 3-1 a.
Plymouth, March 8 arrived the Jafori Pender
of bound to Hamburgh,detained by the'
Havick fl >op of war.
Pool, March 8, arrived Two Friends, Shepperd,
Cowes.
Gravcfend, March 6- ia palTcdby, the Gen. Elli
ot, Warren, from Jamaica, and Neptune, Stocks
St. Michaels. Arrived, Adventure, Purnell,
Charleston ; Saratoga, Chriflie, do : Minerva, French
do. Apollo, Parker, Savannah.
Cork, arrived, Virginia, Davis, Virginia < Peggy,
Watson, New.York : Atlantic, Brown, New-York.
Yarmouth, arrived, John scott, Newport.
Belfaft, arrived, Port Mary. Packwood, New-York.
The Phenix, Becker, from Bremen, for Baltimore,
is carried into L'Orient.
An American vessel laden with rice, cotton, hides,
and t mber, is taken by La Vigttante privateer ; off
Landfend and carried into Pambol. An American
brig laden with oranges and Lemons, baund to Li
verpool, taken by La Condnance privateer of the
fame port and carried thither also.
The Three Siftert, Wood, from Liverpool to Bos
ton, has been captured by the French, and retaken on
the ill inft. by the Eliza. Smith, who gave her up to
the American captain.
The Lighthorfe, Gibfon, from Baltimore to Am
flerdam, has been taken by the French, retaken by
the Anion frigate, and brought into Plymouth.
The American|fhip Eliza, originally from Batavia
has been taken and detained by an Englith armed vef-
Capruied, the snow Rebecca, (Amer.) from Cbarlef
ton, bound to Gorce, the naval (tores taken out, and
landed here, vessel liberated.
Ship Prelident, (American bottom) with an En*
glilb cargo, bound to Gnree; taken bvtheencmy, and
re-captured nffthe mouth ofthe "Gambia ; vessel and
cargo returned to the owners here, on salvage being
paid.
Baltimore, May 5.
Last evening arrived the snow Eliza, captain
Perry Beufon, from London, lad from Falmouth
which (he left (lie tu tfnty-third of March.
Thepapera rece red from our correfp ndentat
London are no later than the t of
February. One of the seventh of Anarch was
brought, but we were notfo fortunate as to ob
tain it. Verbal information by persons who
Came paffrngers, fays, nothing of importance
had lately tranlpircd—The affairs of Ireland
were fettled ; the people appeared fatisfitd with
the government, and the threats of an invasion
were treated with contempt. The Hamburgers
had pai l one hundred thousand pounds iierling
to the dired\ory for peace.
"7he following gentlemen came pajfengers in the
Efizn :
David Stewart, jtin. James Purviance,Lloyd
Buchanan. Every ship in the convoy was arm
ed, except the Montezuma and Carlisle.
T he Eliza saluted the city this morning with
sixteen £uns.
Captain Henfon left Portsmouth on the 18th
March, with the following American tbips un
der convoy of the St. Albans, of S4 guns On
the 19th the Herald, of Boston, ran. foul of the
Eliza and carried away her bowsprit, which
obliged her to put into Falmouth. The fleet
proceeded to Cork to join another vessel of war,
with th? Liverpool, Brifiol and Irifli (hips.
With the vessels from London and those at
Cork, it is (iippofed, the fleet will confiftof 40
fail. The commodore intended going the
southern passage, ond to drop the (hips alang
the roast.
Mr. Bayard and family, of New-York, are
on board the Fzftor. Saw in the Gulf, the (hip
Ardent, Smith, of this port.
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, May 7.
On Saturday arrived here the schooner
Valedore, Capt. Gardner, 33 daysfrOra Gib
raltar—(he failed in company with the brig
Commerce, of and for this port, uuderan
English convoy, with one regiment of troops
bound to Li(bon.
The Spanish fleet were still St. Vinreti'd.
Mav3, in lat. 38, 1* 70, spoke the Assist
ance and another 50, the la! ter having 101 l
her rudder hc?.d—Had in company a French
prize, and a few days before had fj?nt ia a
Spanish prize, with considerable money.
The lh;p Hunter of this port, is taken
afid carried into Algeziras-
There were no American vessels left at
Gibraltar.
t The Valledore, or Flyer, was formerly
a fpanifli garda-coafta, and was, some time
in Ja". taken by an Englifli frigate. We
are told (he was pnrchafed by a citizen of
New-York, and sent out with a cargo or
prize wine-
Capt. Bell, informs, that on the night of
the 2111 ult. there was a dreadful fire in
Wilmington (N. C.) which coufumed a
great.part of tire town- TJ*c pjj titulars are
not within our reach-
COMMUNICATION.
the tFrusioNS or patriotism, at
the theatre on Friday evening last, on the
singing of Mr. Williamfon'9 SONG, M>
ceeded all former example.
As the vile revolutionary fervot fubfidc,
and men begin to recover from the freHEV
of their Gallic delirium, it affords a
pest irrcfiftiblv enchanting to behold the
love of our country rapidly spreading in ev
ery part of the Union, and a rational and
honest patriotifrn receiving that homage fo
long and so difgraceftilly bellowed on a de-
Isfive and irrational compound of anarchy,
philosophy and atheism.
The unbonnded and reiterated shouts of
4pplau(e w';ich attended each alluftnn to the
godlike Washington, and the illuftrfous
chief who now presides, give the faireft
earned of that unanimity which all feel tf»
be so ne effary, and of which the conse
quences cannot fail to surpass the mod en
thusiastic patriotifrn !
Firm—united—let us.be,
And fearlefs we may defy the combined
effort! of all the revolutionary cut throats
of the earth—aye, eveu the whole hell of
Sans-culottifm.
We have a letter from Honduras of the
22d Feb. which mentions that the Charibs
are in poffeflion of the island of Rattan. It
was impolicy in the English government to
fend them on that island. His majesty's
(hip Merlin, on entering the harbor, saw
the Spanish colours flying, ant! was fired on
by one of the forts. Wood at Honduras
is eagerly bought at 151. Log waod is 71.
1 os, and expefted to rife jo percent.
BOSTON, May 3,
By the Herald and Minerva, from Lon
don, we have received papers to the 15th
March, which, though many days later
than before received, contain no informa
tion of great moment ; they are principal
ly filled up with lifts of die voluntary con
tributions of the people of England, for
supporting such measures of defence, a3
(hall ftcure them from the threatened inva
sion of their restless and ambitious neigh
bor. TBe contributions at the bank,
Mar h 10, were 1.147,309!. To these
may be added, the free gifts of almofl all
the towns, and societies in the kingdom.
ExtraS ef a letter from London.
" We have effe&ed your insurance at
15 guineas per cent, to return 5 per cent
for failing with convoy, and 3 per cent
more for arming with the fame. A large
amount was effefted on American vefTels
before the appointment of a convoy was
known, at 18 guineas per cent."
American Stocks, in London.
February IStb, March 4tf>,
Three Per Cents, 54, Three Per Cents, 55,
Deferred, - 73, Deferred,' - - 73,
Six Per Cents, - 85, Six Per Cents, 86
Bank Shires, - 118 Bank Shares,
FAYETTEVILLE April 28.
AFIRE broke out in Wilmington on
Saturday night the 21ft infl about 12 o'
clock nearly in the centre of the n6ith-eaft.
. (quare of the town, the whole of which
with many adjacent buildings, were consu
med in the course of -three h^urs.
a rtrong wind blowiug from the south
west, together jvith the great exertions of
the inhabitants, preventedtheentirc deftruft
ionofithe whole town The court house
(landing in the centre ot thetown, upon the
prefcrvatoin of wljieh depended the fcfety
of al! the buildings, betng on fire several
times. About 50 or 60 dwelling houses and
(tores were dellroyed, bclides kitchens Sc.
&c—— Ihe loss in buildings, &. together
with merchandize, furniture &c, is ellima
ted at riot Jess than 14c,000 dollar The
misfortune .'s attributed to accidcnd-
N O T 1 GE.
HAVING observed an p.iverf ifemcrt of C.
Gullagcr, in terms derogatory of'our pro
fctiional abilities, we have to request the public
not to be imposed upon by foreign artists ; but to
decide upon the ments of «ch by acomparifon ot
the work executed by both, as it is a mode almost
umverfally adopted by them to invalidate the ta
lents ef cllablilhed artilb, with a view of deceiv
ing tne public, and engrossing that bufinef, which
their profeflional knowledge in ro wife eHtitles
them to. Well knowing thf.t-public opi.-ion mutt
govern, we flatter ourlelves that the w<vrk execut
ed by us will convince them of our great superio
rity over Mr. Gullager 111 every branch of por
trait and ornamental painting, andlhew theneaef
lity of judging for themselves.
N. B. In future no attention will be paid to th ■
lelf-nattering advertisements of Mr G.
no A rrLc erf °M a fu PP'y ° f fLaGS and
DRUMS will please apply to Geo. Rotter and
Co. Norm Court, or Henrt Frailiv, GermaE
town' §6w ' may g.
A few Copies
Of the DISPATCHES from the A
tncrican Envoys at Paris, communicated to
Congress in the Prefdent's Message of the
3 d infl. may be had at this Office. "
— ——
WILL BE SOLD,
On Thursday next at 7 o'clock in the E V 4ni~e
at the Merchants Coffte-Houfc.
Harriot.
\F ow }y ir> e at Meflr "- Willing Isf Franc!,',
Whart burthen ?j tens, three years old, welt
found and emulated for a Coaster.
CONNELL7 , & Co. AuSiomcrs.
™y 8 drs.
S
VIRGINIA TOBACCO.
Walker & Kennedy,
T °- 73» South Fronl-flreet.
HAVK Fop. SAt-t,
50 Hogflieads Virginia Tobacco, of Frederickf
burg ,-nd Falmouth Infpt<Hions.
30 Hogftieads ditto of Richmond mfpodiion
mj y roditJUST ARRIVED,
>n th e br gGayofo,capt.l<mgham,fromSt.Martins
A quantity of SALT,
of an exccelient quality
A few grocc Porter Bottles, new
And twenty calks Vinegar (
Also, FOR SALE,
Enquire of
Jehu Hallinvpworth tsf Co.
No. ai, Little Water street, Sooth,
april 10. $
For Sale,at the Stores of the Sut>-
fcribers, on Walnut ftrdtt Wharf,
191 casks of nails afiorted
io bales of fail canvass, from No. I to 8
I 3 casks yellow ochre
i j tiercei bottled porter, 6 to I* doz. edcft
London particular) Mad( .t ri W ; nes
India market > . r'
Tfneriffe do. in hogflieads and pipes
Old Port do. in hhtls. v
Empty CUret bottles
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Moflinetj Ac.
aflorted for the Weft-Isdia market
4, 10, and 9 inch cables and 10 eoils of cordage
Writing fiates, ink Hand* a id prelfes
10 purcheona Jamaica rum
I bale Teaming twine
160 bundles Iheatning paper
THE BRIG
A 'M AZ '° N >
For Sale, or Charter.
Nicklin isf Griffith.
April J tuth&f.tf
FOR SALE. ™~
Sugar
aoo Hides
Will be landed to-morrow, at Willingsaad Fran
cis's wharf, from on board the brig Will
iam Williams, mailer.
faid Brigfor sale,
And may take in immedi
ately after discharged.
Apply to
Jehu Hollingfworih & Co.
march 30. §
For Hamburgh,
TH E S HIP
Dominick Terry,
John Fleming, Majler,
part other cargoen
gaged.—For freight apply to
JeJfe (if Robert Wain.
February 26 <
Holies on Sale.
Several valuable Horses to be Sold,
WHiclt are perfeflly wtll broke for either La
tiiei or Getitlemen ; trills of them are allowed.
Apply to r. SlVAXtti
at his Hiding School Market-street, which is
open every day for the purpofeof teaching the I
a l l of Horffmanlhip, and tfye breaking and train
ing of Horses.
may 4. *jt
Auk. J. Miller ZS 1 Jams Davis ? 1
Having entered into partuerfhip under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller &f Co.
INFORM their friends in town and country, that ,
thcy.have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South Front S/reet, Philadelphia ; where
they now have, aud intend kceeping a general af
fojtment of India, German, Irijb', French and Bri
tijb Mannfailuresfot sale, on advantageous ternjt
fbr cadi or a short credit.
February 19 §rf
' JUST RECEIVED,
FK O M PORT-AU-P »1H CE,
An! FOR SALE, by the SVpSCRICEFtS, Q
110 hhds. Coffee p
46 tierces do.
100 barrels do.
100 bags do
Xio hoglheads of MufcovaJo Sugar n
80 barrels of do. n
40 hoglheads of MolaiTes
4 bales of Cotton
3 hoglheads of Cocoa 0
WILLINGS & FRANCIS,
Penn-ftreet.
march ij. §
" FOR SALE, _
, bv the subscribers, No. 21, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Con/iJling of ],
Baftas, of various qualities and prices, h;
CofTaes Punjum Cloths P
Sanah? Guzzeydo.
Humbumi Charconna Dorea
, Bi' ie Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmult
Mamoodyj Checks
Maharagonges Patna Hkfi.
Ginghams Malmul do.
GuzzenaSj Bandannoes c , c
Gurr ahs Siflerfoy J
Piniafcoes Choppa Romals aI
Salgatchys Sooty do. ce
Gillie Romals , Perfuns of various col. w
Mack Pullcats | )(
»oo tons SUGAR 0 I
9®,000 lb. PEPPER. a
Willings & Francis. -
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that m
commodious store the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-flreets. be
Also—A few Bales of Madrafs Hkfs. of ele- fe
gant patterns and best colours. at
February 8. dtf at
FOR SALE. 2
SEVERAL very elegant Situations for Sum- er
mer Retreats, three And a half miles from
the Court House, and on the Frankford Road ; jj c
the lots will be made to suit the purchasers. 0 j
TheXe firuations are conlidered in point of health
beauty and elegance, equal to any near the city, 9 f
and the road known to be fafe and good at all p r
seasons of the year. The title itidifpiltable—A qt
plan of the grounds is in the hands of the sub- I pr
fcriber, who will make known the terms on aj>- ot
plication to him St his office No. 124 South in
Fourth Street. to
ABRAHAM SIIOEMAKF.P. Jfc
may 1. atiWtf 1 i
. r-7 n —ft-« —r '■ ru hi
Grass, Lots to let. J
THPEE contiguous Lots of Ground, contain-
ing famethingmore than an acre, fitu*tedip
Carpenter street, between Third and Fourth ftrept,
Southwark ;to rent separately or together, fpr /
the year or longer. "5 hey are in good order aijd
generally produced hay for fifteen years pall.—
Upon one lot is a frame dwelling hnife, a garden,
wtll of water, and hay (tables. Tor further in- ,
formation, enqHirc at No. I J, North Third street.
April I*s. codiw
l' TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
'« MARCH 1,1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
INpur'Viance of the Aft of CaDfrref* pafied on the sixth day of July one thousand seven hurdredanJ
nir,e;y-fcven, e 'titled " An Aift laying duties on Stamped Wllum, Parchment nnd Paper"j and the
' Ad pail d nnthe fifteenth day of », --ember, one thoufandfeven hundred and nyiety-feven, entitled
" An Ait topoftponefor a limited time the comiritncemfnt of the dntirs imposed by the Act enti
tled " An A t laying Duties on Stampad Vellum, Parchment and Psper", that from and after the
firft day of July enfaing, the several Stamped Duties htreafter enumerated, will he levied and collec
ted througjijat the United States.
I.
For every (kin or pieceof Vtrlbim or Parchment, or sheet or piece of Paper, upon which lhall be
written or printed any or either of the inllruments er writings I ollowing—to wit:
jDh CtJ. |MU
Any Certificate of Naturalization, - - - - - 5
~ Any Licence to practice,or Certificate of the admiflion, enrolment orregiflryof |
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Prodlor, in aay Courr of the
United Stater, ... - 10
Provided, that a Certificate in any ore of the Courts of the United States
for one of thefaid Offices, shall so far as relates to the payment of the
dnty aforel'aid, be a fufficient admiflion in all the pourts of the United
■ : States, for each and every of thefaid offices.
GrSnt of Letters Patent, under tbe seal or authority 0/ the United States
; (e.\etpt for janda granted tor military services) - 4
Any Exemplification or certified copy of any such grant or letters patent, (ex
cfpt for grtnted for military Services) ... x
Any Cliarter-Party, Bottcmry, or Refpondentia Bond, - 1
Any Receipt or difchf rge for or rax account,of any Legacy leftbv any Will or b
e ther teftamentaryinftrurnent, or for any share or pest of a perfor.sl x!\ate di
vided by force of any ftatiite of other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person Arceafefi, the amount whereof (hall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and shall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, ... . - 25
When the amount thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
shall not exceed five hundred dollars, - - jo
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dol'.afs, the additional furrt of I
Any Policy of Insurance Or lnflrament in nature thrreof, on any (hip, veiTe'l or
goods insured from one diftriift to another in the United States, 1J
From the United States to any foreign port'or place, whtntfieTum for which
Insurance is made (hall not exceed five hundred dollars, - ij
When the sum infared (hall exceed five hnndred dollars, - I
A-'y Exemplification, of what nature soever, that (hall pass the seal of any
Court, other than Inch as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furni/h forthe use of the United States or some particular (late, - 50
' Any Bond, bill single or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promiflory
note or other not*, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tionor contrail, made to br with th« United States or any (late, or for their
use refpeftively, ....
If twenty dollars an.d not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
Ifahoycone hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, 15
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding o»e thousand dollars, 50
And if above one thousand dollars, .....
Provided, that it'any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or note* (ball be fubjeff to only two filth parts of the duty
aforefald —viz. - -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 4
If above one, hundred dollars and not exefedirfg five Kundrid-dollat s, 10
If above siva hundred dollars and not exceeding orte thousand dollars, 10
If above one thonfjnd dollars, - - - - 30
Any Notes ifluedby the bants now eftabWhed, ot-that may Hereafter be estab
lished wjthin the United States, other than thf not<>s of fucji of the said Banks
as (hall agree to an aniaual competition, of one per the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders rel'pedlively, according to
the following scale. - - -
On all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - - t
On all notes above fifty dollars, »nd not exceeding one hundred dollars, jo
Cn all notes above one hundred dollars and pot exceeding fire hundred
dollars, - - ... 2
On all notes above five hundred dollars, - 9
Any Protest or other Notarial aft, ....
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfios, or'to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
performed in the late war, v - - - - 3^
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for less than
five hundred dollars, - - - c I
For five hundred dollars and rv>t exceeding two thousand dollars, | j
Formore than two thousand dollars, - - 3
Any note or bill of lading-for goods or merchandize to be exported,
If fram one diftriSt to another diftriA of the United States, not being in the
fame State, - - - - ' ro
If from the United States to any foreign port or plaee, - 25
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effedts, made in-any
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
rent or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal protefs by any office!,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share in any Insurance Company, of a (hare in the Bank of
the United States, or of any State or other Bank,
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars, - - 25
If under twpnty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
The Juties afore laid will be collected and received by the Snpervifors, fnfpectors aud other Officers
of in,the several Diftrl&s, Surveya an3~Dfv!Edns-sirgie understates; and by luch other ~
persons as (hall from ts time he specially appointod and employed by the Supervisors of Diftridts for
that ruirpofe.
111.
The Supervisors of the faveral DiftriAs will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and as soon as
may be pra<sticatle, mark or (lamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcelsof Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of thefaid duties ; Or
damped vellum, parchment and paper n.ay at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rates prescribed bylaw, by application to any Supervilor, Infp«<Stor, Officer of Inspection,
or other psrton appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diftriels
GIVEN under my Haud, at Philadelphia
the day and year abovementioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. V i Secretary of .the Treajury.
James Humphreys,
BEING encouraged by a number,of gentlemen
in the mercantile line, to undertake the pub
lishing of a Price Current in thi« city, and they
having engaged to give him every ilTiftance in their
power to render it accurate and ufeful,
PROPOSES TO PRINT BY SUBSCRIPTION,
The Philadelphia Price Current,
And Market Day Advsrtifer.
To be publilhed every Wednesday and Saturday
morning, on the following conditions.
It willbe printed on four pages quarto. It will
contain the Prices- Current (wholelale) at Phila
delphia, with the duties on each article—The Pri
ces- Current at Boston, New-York, Charleston,
and other parts of the United States, with the Pri
ces Current at Londan, the Weft Indies and else
where as often as thty can be had accurateand to
be relied on. The rates of infaranee—the price
of (locks—course of exchange, &c, &c. Likewise
a regular account of entries, inward and outward
—With such marine and other intelligence as shall
be thought ufeful and important—and the remain
derof the paper will be appropriated to advertife
it ments.
)f The price to fubferifcers within the city and li
berties, to whom it will be delivered at their hou
;- fes, will be Four Dollars per annum—Two dollars
at the expiration of a month from its publication,
and the remainder at the end of the year. Sut>-
- Icribers at a greater distance will have it (ent them
agreeable to their dire<stions—to pay two dollars at
the time of lubferibing, and the remainder at the
eDdof the year.
n The publication (hall commence as soon as a fuf
• ficient number have fubferibed to pay the expence
of conducing it.
11 0- It is from the advica and to gratify the wilh
> of a number of mercantile gentlemen that the
11 printer proposes publilhing this Price Cnrrent in a
I quarto fizo in preference to any other. Audit is
- propoftd to embrace the Prices Current " ith ftich
• other matterasmay be moll materia! to fendabroad
[> in the firft two pages—appropriating the other two
to such matters as r»ay be m«re immediately do
jlieftie, nmd to adveftifements.
J * *re received by said Humphries, at
»u Prmt/ng Office, No. y 4 , North Thi,rd-ftreet,
. artdMi-. 12. Polilfdn, jun. ithisoftice inChcfnut
flre<;t, and at the Philadelphia library.
Philadelphia, April 14. ftf
' For Sale,
r \ CONVENIENT well built second hand Light
i -t- i Waggon, hung on Jacks with glaff'.s and
blinds'in t:ic doors, with or without harness.
Enquire of Peter Umcrickhoufe* Arch, below
' Sixth street, or the fubferiber in Germantewn.
CASPAR W. HAIKES.
apiil a *aaW3w I
Frefli Teas.
Just Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sale, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Compting House', No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,
k AND BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At hi» Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea, Souchong, Hyson, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
also,
China Ware, aff»tteis; black and coloured
ftrrngs and Sauius, Nankeens, Caflia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
whak-bonc flicks."
Ttry have alfa For Salt,
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchiefs,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes,
march 8.
Now Opening,
AtWiLLiAM M'Law s Saddle Manufactory,
No. 72, Chefnut Street,
A general assortment of Horseman's
Pistols, direct fror*fhe Manufacturers in London,
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartouch Boxes, Va-
Nces, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
1 runks. Carriage and Chair Harness, See.
A P ril 9 • s dtf
City Commissioner's Office,
January \ith,.1798.
FOR THE INFORMATION OF THE CITIZEN I.
r HE following arrangement is made by the
said commiflioners, for tleanfing the
ft reefs, &c.
Diflri£t No. i.—From the north fide of Vine
street, to the sou k fide of Mulberry street; to
be under the fuperintf ndance of Nicholas Hicks.
2- From the south fide of Mylbrry street to
the south Tide of CVefnut ftrreet, to be under the
fuperintendance of William Moulder.
3- From the south fide of Chefnut street to
the north fide ®f Spruce street, to be under the
fuperintendance of Joleph Claypoole.
4- From the north fide of Spruce street, to the
south fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu
perintendance of Hugh Roberts.
& When pumps are ohi of order south of
High-flreet, plcafe apply to Thomas Dixey, at the
corner of South and Fifth-ftretts, or Godfrey Geb
ler, in Fourth, near Chefnut-Sreet ; and north of
High street, to Dixey and Deharen, in Saflafras
ftreet, bttween Sixth and Ssventh-flrests.
treasury department,
March loth. 1798.
Public Notice is hereby given,
id I THAT byanadVof Congriis parted on the
I loth day df March, l? 98, the following
a terations and amendments huve been made to
the aft passed on the 6th day of July 1797, en-
titled " Aft ift living duties on stamped vcl
c" 44 lum, parchment aftd paper.
The Jtimp duties on debentures or r-ertili
ke cates for the drawback of Cuttoms or duties on
-
A dilc'ount at the rate of seven and one half
per Centum, «U1 be allowed by the Superv.fors
or Infoetf ors refpeflively, to any persons other
than Officers of t h« Revenue, who may pnr
ch-.fe at on; time or procure to be stamped, any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment cr Paper, upon
which the duties lhall amount to Ten Dol
lars or upwards.
1 ■ m.-
StamjeJPaper, wifljje"provided, and fold at
the rates prefcubfd by law, without any addi
tional charge or e*penfe oft account of the
price of
Vellum, an additions! pr'ife will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty,iCetits for each (kin of Parch
ment, or T«i o Hundred Cents for each ftisof
Vellum of medium size, which may be furni!>-
ed at 'he expense of tlie United States and pro
portionally for aijy tellef quantity.
Given wider my band, at Philadelphia, the
day andyeir abci<ementio-ed.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary ofthcTreafury.
WANTED,
APPROVED BILLS on Amfterdam—for which
cash will be given at the rate of thirty seven cents
per guilder. Enquire o£ the Calhier of the Bank
of the United States. § april 23.
LANDING,
Frem onboard the ship Elizabeth, captain Paiflie,
from Batavia,
And FOR SALE by the Subscriber,
400,000 wt. Java COFFEE
300 caniflers SUGAR, of a superior quality
ALSO,
A quantity of SAPAN WOOD
JOHN MILLER, jvs.
April 17. 5
Thomas & Joshua Fisher,
H AVE FOR SALE,
AtNo.y, Dock-ftreet,near the Drawbridge,
China ware nankeen dining fctts, tea and coffee
cups andfaucers
Nankeens, blackfattioi and taffities
Fgngem cloths, choppab romalls, and bandaftnoes
China and Enj(li(h umbrellas
together <with a general ajfortment of European
Goods— among which are
Scots thread in boxes
6d. Bd. iod. 12d. and lod. nails
Shot—T. Crowley Heel, Spanish brown and white
lead
EHjflilh scythes 42 to 50 inches
ALSO,
112 barrellsof kiln dryed Indian corn meal.
A commodious StoreinDock-ftreet,
No. 7, to be let, three stories high, fuiuble for
any buiinefs.
4th mo. sth §tf
S ALT P El RE.
One hundred kegs of refined Salt Petre,
For Sale by the Subscribers.
'James C. & Samuel IV. Ft/her,
No. 13, Arch Street
march 31 4tawtf
Joseph Ricardo,
OF /this City, Merchant, has afligned his pro
perty for the benefit of his Creditors, te Jamfee
C. Fi.'her, Samuel W. Fiffier, and Thomas Wilson.
All persons who have demands are re-
qugftf.d to »*■»:» n.. t nnn*r __
and those indebted to make immediate payment to
the a&inp Aflignees.
James C. iff Samuel IV. FiOjer.
No. *3, Arch Street.
march 31 4tawtf
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the aoth J
inft;V Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Severn Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lattery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-flreet ''
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten 1
Dollars, where check books are kept lor rsgifter
ing and examining in these, the City of Wafliing- 1
toil, No. ll.and Pafc£erfon Lotteries, and informa- (
tion where tickets may be had in most of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The bnfinefs of a Broker, in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities, '
difcownting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, &e. &c. will attended to, 1
b? WM. BLACKBURN. *
November it-. 5
JUST RECEIVED. " e
Antffor sale by W.Young, corner of Second n
and Chefnut-ftreet, M. Carey 118 High-street
T. Dobfon, 41 South Second-ftreef and the 0
Book fellers generally, v
"(Price 5-Sths of a Dollar.) '
BEACON HILL, f!
A Local Potm, historic and deforiptive t
By a Lady of Bojlon. ; r
analysis O F BO O K I. ai
Allusion to the surrounding Profpeit— Invocation "■
to the River and sylvan Deities—to the Historic ?'
Mufe—l'iilion discarded—Dedication to Wash- 111
ington—The Action opens at the Retreat of the
Columbians from Bunker's Hill—General Howe
—The Membry of his Brother— Death of War- "
ren—PerfaniScation of Fcrtune and Fame
Wafhingron at Mount Vernon—called to the "
chief Command—Formation of the Columbian „
Camp at Cambridge—Natural, moral,-or poli- m
tical History of the several States—Their com- i r ,
mandmg Officers—Siege of Bofton—[ M Suffer, te
ings—Negotiation for the fafe Retreat of the pi
Britiffi Army—lts Departure— Appointment of in
Congress—Declaration of Independence—Cha- th
riAcr of the Columbian SokJies—The Poet's
prophetic Apostrophe to the Frogrefs of Free- D
dom throughout the World.
march 30. r
To le Let,
( And possession given on the ift of May)
A genteel three story brick House, w
11 feet front, and 4 o r feet deep, with back buildings
and in the tenure of Major Tack-
SOH. Enquire at 187 South Third street.
§ -
JUST, P UnUiSHED, '
and FOR sals at this office,
( Price 25 Cents J
Reiledions on Monroe's View f
OF TltS CONDUCT Of THE BXECUTin, W
A' published ia the th
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES, £
Under the signature of '
scipio, c b ;
Ir. -.viktjL- Commercial Warfare of Fra V e istraccd be
to the French Faflion in this Country, it, Saurc,
ertJ the Motives of Opptfticn,
\ | The following Certificates of
FINDED DRBT OF TH£ UNITES STATES
STANDING on th* Books Of the treasury, were
'•orwarded for London by the ship William
g Penn, Captain Jofiah, which hath beeH captured,
:o and thi Certificates fiippofed to be loft, viz
1 . 3x64. Ba. Deferred debt, in the name of Rev,
I- Edward Giddy, of Thredrea, in Cornwall,
Great Britaiq, dated Jane 2, 1797. Certificate
No. 10,071.
[j. Sen., if. six per Cent. Stock, in the name of
in Edward Horne, of Bevis mount, Hant>, Great
Britain, dated May 30, 1797. No. 15196.
3610. s o. Deferred Debt, in the name of Will
iam Manning, ofOrmfby, in the county of Nor
folk, i n England, dated July 10, 1797. No.
" 10199.
r 10183. 71. Three per Ceat. Stock, in the name
r ' Jannet Mathew, of Upper Seymour street,
iy London, Wia o w, dated odober 31, 1797. No.
>n nßio.
'1- For the renewal ©f the above Certificates, ap«
plication is intended to be made at the frid office of
the Treasury of the United Stat3,,_and allper-
Jt sons concerned aredefired to tak- notice.
j- ALSO —IN fm SAME VllStL,
, e Fifteen (hires Stork of the Bankdf UmtedStates.in
)r thename of William Mannings/ Ormfby, coun
>(| ty of Norfolk, England, viz. Three Certificate*
for five (hares each, dated January x, 1797.
jf No. 159 S- IJOB3, 2J984.
( _ For the renewal of w hich,application i s meant to '
5 he made to th« said Bank of the United States,—
and all persons concerned therein are desired to
take notice*
J AT. VAUGHAK.
Philadelphia, may 4. sdwr
The "following Certificates of Shares
- TN the North American Land Company, {landing
X on the Books of said Company in the name of
s Daniel Lifter, of Hackney, in the county of Mid.
k dlefex, England—viz. No. 2J51, representing
1309610 13105, ten (hares— No. >ls0 —13066 to
_ 13075, ten (hares—No. 2149—13056 to 13065,
ten (bares—No. 1143 —1150910 HjiS.ten (hares
;, —-No. 2147 —1X47 1 to 11480 —Amounting to
Forty Shares, were forwarded for LonJon hy the
fh;p Will an Penn, which having been captured,
said certificates are supposed to be loft ; for the r«.
newal ef which, applicuion will be made to the
JT Board of th« said company.
Daniel Neal Lifter.
may r »d6w
Ross & Sim son ,
HAVE FOR SALE,
' 22 bales superior Madrafs blue Cloths
Carolina Indigo, firft quality
A few bales Eaftas, Coffaes, and a quantity of
Bengal COTTON
Bengaf SUGAR, in bags and boxes
april 20 - g
LANDING,
From on board the Ship Sally, from
CalcHtta,
AND FOX SALE EV THE SUBSCRIBER,
1600 bags prime Sugar,
800 do. Ginger
30 bales low priced piece Goods.
, John Miller, Juti.
march 3 $
TO BE SOLD,
40,959 acres of Land.
IN, Greene County, Commonwealth of Pennsyl
vania, on the waters of Fife and Wheeling
Creeks and Ten Mile Ran.
These Lands are fertile and well timbered, and
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten years ago for
five lhillings per acre ; patented early in .757 , ex
cept 370 c acres, which were patented in 179*;
part of them were surveyed in 1783. The tra£
is between the Ohio and Monongahela, very con
venient to water carriage, about r 9 miles from
the town of Wa(hington, from 14 to 16 from the
villags of Greenelburgh and Wheeling.
On payment of one fourth of thepurchafe mo
ney, a realbnable credit will be given for the refi
- Jn 1 ■ nf tb- V-ifltfr.
April 21. 5
TO BE SOLD,
26,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of New York, between the northern
bounds of Pennfylvar.ia and the Safquehsnna
now, or late in the townftups of Hamdcn and
Warren and county of Warren.
These Lands, (r o m thiir quality and situation,
are a very desirable objecSl for any man who means
to invert his money to advantage.
On payment of one third cf the purchase mo
ney, 3 rcafonable credit will t e given for the red
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april 2t. $
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, propjfmgto contra® his buft
nefs, offers this Ellate for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blafl and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill,with two pair of stones ; also a good Forge, all
in perfctt repair,as are all the Water Works connefi
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnace*
were lately built for the purpose of casting Cannon
for this State.—There are abou two thousand acre*
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the bed Hay and
Paflurti, The Cannon iattly manufactured ihefe t
proves the excellency of the metal, which is
superior to any in this country, and probably, eqaal
to any in the world ; for not one of &/Uy-nioe guns
lately made, although lomeo/thea4 were bored
into 32 poundtrs, have failed on proving. The filu
! ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufa&ure, and a . place of arms lying in the state
of Connefticut. and only 30 miles from several land •
ings on the Hudson's river, and having tvery advan
tage that can rcfult from a plenty of water ifluing
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchafrr can beaccommodat
ed with all the (lock and utensils, and have pofleffion
on or before the firft of June next, and preparation
may be madein themearioimefor goinginto Blaftim
mediately thereafter, for every pait will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. See. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joleph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, Esq. one of the Reprefentativea
in Congrels for this State ; Mr, David Wateiman, 00
thepreimfesj or to the proprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee. t. gawtf
For Sale,
BY THE SUBSCRIBER, NO 10, CHESKU 1 STREET,
11 Calks of Carolina Indigo,
Which will be fold on realonabte terms on a fcert
credit. .
Robert Hcnderfon.
april i
Notice—Agreeably to charter,
Is hereby given to the members of " the por
poration fer the belief of poor and diftrefled
presbyterian ministers and the poor and diftrefled
widows and children of prelbyterian ministers,"
that a meeting of said corporation is to be hold
en, on the 16th day of May next, at 4 o'clock
P.M. in the second prelbyteriaß chareh in the
city of Philadelphia, for the dispatch of all such
bufinafs as may then be brought before the
board. ASHBEL GREEN,
Secretary of the Corporation.
April 7. tawtlCm