7~!
of tije j *w
J OH N Fenno, N°" 119 Chejkut Street.
NUMBER ',33-J PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, MARCH 30, 1798. [Volume XIII.
This Day will be Landed,
At MerriiV wharf, juii a bote the Drawbridge,
from on board the 1.-jj Eliza, capt.
/ro ii Niabga—
Fresh Fruits, Wine and Brandy
l*tr.ons ir. the n*an d Ha.f chdts
RnitiM of the .-un in keg*
rut- il*in-
Spiff u* ! '. lmond* in fack#
- fitdLi'ct and Cilive-. in jars
21oom an J Mufcjtel BjiiQns ia botes
Ancboviea in kegs
Jordan and iittrr almond* in boxes
Old Mountain Wine in qr calks
Brandy in i.utts &c. &c.
For Sale by
PETER KUHN.
P. s.
I The above Brig forfale
v .- t ' .pTA'f immediately applied Jor ; the
'* a remar kable fine fall failing
vtfT, 1, having made her paifagc
to atld f'O a Malaga in little mare than 60 t'ays.
ma ch •(> lot
ireiiiht v\anted.
1
FOR BIUT-MPtf,
The Hamburgh Brig
;;.m HKNRIEITA,
Peter P. Schmidt, Master,
NOW lying at JcfT-r and R Waln'e whafi—A
flout, flrong of about 270 tons bur
then, in good ord r ; has two thirds of her cargo
ready to go on board, and begins to load to-niotrow.
For Freight onlv, arpljf to
PRATT & KINTZING,
Kja 1)?, .'forth at r-fticet.
IVto invc JI'ST and FO* SALE,
II Bcfr» Ticili-t'irgs ltd Gznabiij*
a do Pattcrbome"
bkache,' Htffians
i package Of!
I ■ heft aud 8 barrels Sirsff Boxe}
30 I.iqncr Cases
sg anchors pearl Baryle, snd
4 cases e'egant Carriage Harneis, Whips,
Spurs, Mr.
THEY HAVE FOE SAlt
Clare'in Cjf u *i, Port ine in pipes, Rufiia Soap
in fmaHboz.s, Rice, Brimt one. Tumblers, Win
dow Gas , S'aces, a cargo of excellent Mahoga
ny, .Kefiianv Brown Rolls, Polish Linens, c pty
Coffee Dags, Stc &c all entitled to the drawback,
marrh I©, futhsiw
For NEW-YORK,
The Ship
S. A .R AH '
jJr'■** Win Captain Cooper.
FRIiIGHT will be taken on very low terms, if
offered immediately.
JOHN VAUGHAN.
march 17. §
For Sale,
HARRIOT,
7-roirs^—thrr - years oM, built
materials and is well found—woukl atifwer well
far a coafler, as flie has excellent accommodations.
For terms apply to
Gtirney & Smith.
march T J §
For Hamburgh, -
THE SHIP
Dominick Terry,
John Tiering, Majler,
-"SSsSSESW&S* Having partxl her cargo en*
gag«d.-r-For freight a; p!y to
Jeffe is? Robert Wain.
February ifi t
Nicklin is? Griffith,
.At tlitir Store on Walnut Street Wharf—
HAVE FOR SAL t,
48 hhds.of Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wine in pipes and hhds.
Teneriffe do. in pipes
Old Port do. in hhd«.
Imperial Tea in quarters and eighths of chefti
Sail Canvass, No. 1, to 8
Dimities, Ginghams, and Muflinets, in packa
ges hritable fur the Weft lndia market
Nails afiorted
qiwrtb<Htlak-
Queens ware in hhds. and crates
Yellow ochre dry in calks ;
And at New-York, on board the
ship Diana, from Liverpool, expedted round
as for.n as the navigation is o^ien,
Fine Liverpool Salt
Coals
Spanith Brown "1
J Venetian Red
Purple Brown i p AINTS
Patent White f
White Lsad i
Red Lead J
Coleothar vitriol
t6o bundles Sheathing paper
Seaming Twine
For Sale or Charter.
ALSO,
N. B. The late firm of Philip Nicklin & Co.
is now changed to
NICKLIN £ST GRIFFITH.
January 1. cic'itt
For Sale or Charter,
1 be Snout
g|gsy,, GOOD HOPE
Will carry about 1200 barrels, and
"K4MHS2 >*ready totakein a cargo, For terms
»pp'y »
Pragers c> Co.
No. I'( i, South Secorad-flreet.
'Vhohavefor sale prime' St Croix Suinr
and Rum, Madera, Lisbon, and Tencrifie wine.
November 7. dtf
TO RENT,
A good three {lory House,
TWO rorrms on eac!. floor, w th a convfnier\
ri.tcheii—in Front, near South iir et. Erq-Irc
1.! the Printer. c:ar:h 3—3 •\r;tv
For Sale, or Charter.
jf"" fc 'P' IC remarkable faft falling
LA'hed wiii l>i;?l catent Copper,
I' V I g been a PattC: "ft!" K*p;liAGart-i:,dil C» .
pan'/—Now i>at in r.c.np'iax rder Sbe i» 1.6
tfn.:, ami c pable of carrying 1"$ g«m, new laying
at Mr Kofs's wharf.—For term* apply to
'.Stephen Kingston,
46, Walnut Strut.
WHO MS* TOR (Awl,
A cargo of Salt, a quantity of Sail Caavafs and
Oin in pipes
march to *3t
COP P E R . " 1 ~~
•, 4,000 lbs. of Sheathing Copper,
' and a f'niall 'flunm lit of ilrong Copper, in
and b,ittor*i ft , tnitable for (lilli, br< wiug and other
pnns from aoo to gallons to*-, ther with an
affortmont of '"opper wire, wttfifiing of Stills
from 10 to 3'o gallons. Hatter's plank and dye
K t'les. warfhing do. of ci pper and hrafs, Fiib
Kettle", Tearto. s 'tewpans, Saac-*pans, copper Ca
bin St iVfs, copper Pujvips and ftinnaclu Lamps,
ar.d a v.ir. ty of oiber artitlrj—Tor Sde by
JAMES M'CAULEY,
At Jhs topper arth, ul<, .1 o 89,-outh Front
"ftreft rnarA ?t
N. B. Or baud, a fecottd handSugur Pan and
Dye Cupper that will contain about 300 gallons,
and will be foUl chi i*.
/J Bargain.
A quantity of Window Glass
FOP. <ALE, of liiffeiefit. sizes. «t a very large
ducotint from *.« fttfiir.gtoft. If, t} Glass is
, not ciitp-.ftd at bef re th?-fth ot. April, it will be
Ihig! 1 frcr r npc r,t
P .-term-. a.ipiy to Mrt. 89, sdft;h Thlrd-tlree*.
march a 6 §iw
A PERSON who has had a li
beral education, nit is mader of the French
Mid 1 nglif* wou'o engage as a tutor
in a ("entcet ramiiy where theru (hou : d be oHe or
two boys, provided it is not in this eity. Ha
would h iva rvo obje c fion t«i travelling;, and is ca
pable of un .er-aki"g the fuperintendance of a
farm. \ note diraSed to Z. at this office will
be attended to.
N. B. Wag»6 is no objeifl,—genteel and friendly
treatment is the only thirg looked for.
10 irch if\ «3t
THE PARTNERSHIP OF
WELLS MORRIS,
HAVING expired on the utfi February laO,
all pcrfons having demands against the said j
Partnerftiip, are requetled to fnrni.'h 'heir accounts
for fettiement ; an.' those indebted to the fame, to
make immediat payrnem to thr fti'if r.ker
GIDEON H. WELLS.
N. B. The bufmefs wdl be < n as hereto
fore, by the fubferiber, at his S.ore, No. 135, Mar
ket Preet. iw march 24.
noticeT"
THREE Cm.ficatcs of Six Per Cent. Deferred
Debt of the United States o< the follow ing
M 1 »f -rrxvyx, SlßTjraO^;
for SDOO dolL-re rach, dated Bth May, 1797,
on the hooks »f the Treasury of the Uni
ted States, in th<* natae 01 Benjamin Waddlngfon,
of Laßovtir near * hsrgavenncf in England,
Esq. have heen loft by the capture of the ship Jiac*
chu?, from hence to l.ondonjn June lalt.— This
ther fove notifies those whom it may concern, that
apj lication will be mad at the Treaft>ry of the U
nitedbtatesfpr a reaewal of the fame
Haddington & Harzvood.
march ia -j6w
i wenty Dollars Reward.
'"PHF Store occupied on account of the United
J. States, back ef No. 71, North Water-street
was on the night of the 19 htnftant (March) bro
ken open and the following articles stolen, and
taken tlierefrom :
Nine pieces Stroud, viz.
2 374 20 2 , Bl ue ft ri>U( l (ingle
2 37 8 23 * cord . S
2379 20
2380 20 \
2381 2*f
2382 20 > Tw^cord.
2383 20-J
---2384. 20
2385 20 j; J
The above reward is offered, for the discovery
of the perpetrators of this robbery, so that they
be apprehended, and shade umenaM* to jufticeV;
further reward will be paid, for recovery of
any part of the goods stolen, delivery of tkc j
fame to
JOHN HARRIS,
Keeper Military btores.
march 7,1* iw
~ forTsale,
iv the subscribers, No. at, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Cunftjling of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Co(Tae» Punjura Cloths
Sanabt Guzzey do.
Humhuras Charconna Dorea
Blue Cb.th . Tanjibs
Chiatz and Calicoes Muimuls
Mamoodys Checks
Maharagonges f a*-na Hkfs.
Ginghams Mulmu d«.
Guzzenas Bantlannoes
Guvrahs Stlletfoy
Piniafcoes Choppa Rom.ils
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie R'»mal« Persians of variyus cal.
Mack Pulicats
too tons SUGAR
59,000 lb. PEPPER.
WiQings is? Francis.
The Piece Goods 1
Of the Ganges are now open to fa'.e at that
commed.ous store the north weft corner of
ftlarketand Fou'th-ftreets.
Alio—A few Bales of Madrafs Hkfs. of ele
gant patteri s andbeft colours.
February 8. <*tf
Red Clover Seed ©f the belt quality.
MADEIRA IVIKZ.
Old, and fit for immediate use, in pipes, half j
pipes and Quarter casks. 1
Teneriffe Wine, <
Am!, Window Glass—all of which will be fold
on v*sry terms, by
John Craig, 1
No. ij, Dock Street. 1
march X wiistf c
Schuylkill permanent Bridge.
rHF. fubferibers Co'nmilSomrs appointed by
nn ait of .ff n?t>fy of this Commonwealth,
cnti'lrd " An aft ti» authorize the Governor of
r " this Comn-ouvreslth' to ilKnrporfne a company
' " lor .. ;-:je »ve the river
J " ! s«fc»y:wu, rmrfte *ty tJ '
hereby give noria , rii.t E : .. i i.-wi-leda. the
K I.w directs; and that we will to receive
fubfcriptious for he Company ,f ork, *on the ninth
day of April next, at the Ci'y Hall, in the city of
Philadelphia, l'he fubfcripti'ins will [>e -elcivad
fro«i ten o'clock in tha morning till two o'clock,
d P.M. of thjt day; and the bo .ks will continue
opea during thole hours of succeeding days, until
_ the number, required by the said law to enable the
Commifliouers to certify t ie fam' to the Governor
for Incorporating th- stockholders, be fubferibed
KICHARO PE fEXS,
JOHN PEROT,
r GODFREY HAGA,
n MATTHEW M'CONNEL,
s W ILLIAM SHEAFF.
r. PMade?pb'u\ iqtb March, 1798- 27 —jawtf
h
A House and Lot in Dover.
'• FOR SALE,
A LOT OF GROUND, situate on the east fide
' of the main flrect. running through the town
t of Dover, in Kent county, in the State of Dela
ware, about thirty or for y yards below Captain
S Furbee's Tavern, containing 11: front on f«id street
>1 thirty four feet, and txtenling in depth caftward
_ twelve perches, together with the buildings th.-re
<Ml tre&ed,, which consist of a good brick house,
two stories high, well fini(hed,.with two rooms a- j
bout Seventeen or eighteen f»et square each, and a j
e paflagc eight or ten fees wide on the firit floor ; '
, three rooms with a pa.T. ge above, and good gar- j
t rets, tha cellars are ctcellejit, or* of which is used !
a» *.knclie>i j a back hrickivii'mrhtwsiooms
.. sua't io .' s' r t. ..k 1 h-et by four
teen ; upper rooms at this hnilding communi. i
cate above ftsiri with the passage of the I oufe .
~ A brick fmok- houli?, and a good pump of water:
1 in the yard, and a garden adjusting.
'['he House is in every refpcA as comfortable a 6
any in Dover, is in a good situation,
and now occupied by John Freeman, as a tavern,
with the sign of the Eagle.
Ihe terms will be reasonable. Apply to Dan- '
J iet Mifflin, at Camden, wztt Dover, or to the fob- 1
fcriber, No 60, v or th Eighth flrcet, PMIa V Iphia. :
r CADWALADER EVANS, j
m3ich 27 u, 4 w
N O T I C.E i
IS hereby given, that the Siibfcriber, an insol
vent debtor, confined in the c»mmon goal of
, the County of Cape May in the state of New
i | Jerl'ey, hath presented his petition to the Judges
s of the Inferior Court of Common Pleat, in and
5 for the said county, praj ing that they would
attend to hear what can be alledged for or a- 1
gamfl his liberation, purluant to an aiJl of the
Lfgiflature of this State, entitled "an a & for
- th relief of Jnfolvent debtors," paflcd the a6th
day of J»> uary 1798 —And the the fa d court
4id appoint Monday the 26th day of March
next for the purpose aforefaid j to meet at the
r Court House in the Middle Precinft, at eleven i
> ocfocfc. i»tli> fl«f ll 11 111 of it^faiddav»«f wh'u'h i
/ his creditors are requelt»d' to take notice.
\ CHARLES ALLEN.
Cape May, Feb. if, 1798.
Feb. 14 —lawjw
• N O T ICE.
WHEREAS a Certificate to Hannah Sh*l
lv, of Oxtcd Cottage, in the County of
Surrey, in Great-Britain Spinster, or her assigns,
for two thousand five hundred and sixty-two dol
lars twenty-three cents, in the deferred flock of
the United States, was loft in the (hip Peggy,
Capt. Hyer, bound from Philadelphia to London
in the year 179 A. The fuLfcriher, the said Han-
I nah Shelly, intends to apply to the Treasury of
the United States, for a renewal of the said Cer
-1 HANNAH SHELLY.
Feb. 23. i*w6<v.
Ran away from the fublcriber,
, on the 14th inft. two indeutcd Irilh Servaat Men ;
Thomas 4/I'Guire, about 15 years of age. and 5
feet 8 inches high, rohxQ, flout, and well made,
short black hair, remarkahle for a fear on one of
his temples ; he is a forward, deceitful, vicious,
and unprincipled fellow, and decoyed from my
service Jcffry Corbet, about the fame age and
height, but of a nailder disposition, and more {len
der make, Ihort brown hair ; their working appa
relwas blue cloth over j.icket», lined with coarse
brown linen, check and brown linen shirts, gr y
yarn blockings, mixed twilled grey cloth trowfers,
and ruffett leather (hoe?; they have «thcr doathing
which altogether gives them the appearance of fea
faring men, but have been brought up to the larm
t ing bufmrfs ; no doubt will have forged paSet and
change their names and apparel as convenient, and
have taken the post road to Philaprlphia, 1 pur
cbafcd them thelaft fall of capt. Rellins, in Balti
more. I will give Fifty Dollars for fecurins; them
so that I get therm, and will pay nil reafnnablc
charges if brought home, or if separated, Thirty
Deilars for Thomas, aod Twenty for l;ffry..
ARTHUR' iiRYAN,
Head of Wye, Talbot County—-March 7.
march 14. lawivr
Forgeries Committed.
WHEREAS several forgeries have been com
mitted in this city by one or two persons
kncwß by the names of Dr. Grant, alias Smith,
alias Gilbert. Grant generally were a green cost,
tall in p»«f»n, and genttel, had loft one or two
t<eth in front ; lodged, about July, 1796. at Mr.
Grimes's tavern, at the George, in North Sjcond
ftreet ; his friends live in New-England ; suppos
ed ro have committed icveral forgeries in New-
York. airdis said to he confined at the wheel-bar
row at Baltimore for dealing watches. The other
is a (hort, thick man, by the name of Gilbert.—
known by Mr. Grimes and Mr. B-gnail, and seve
ral other perfnns in this city. Information given
by any person of thcabovemen, to Wm. Prest
man , No. 15, Sonth Fil'th-ftreet, will be efteein
ed a favor. Gilbert is between »o and 30
years old; yellow, sickly look.
m irch i 7- *3awjw
French Circulating Library.
JO3EPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. lie Walmit-ftreet,
JNFORMS thofb who with to recur to tjie only
means of becoming perfcA in the French Lan
guage, that he has )u!l opened hi« Liirabv, con
sisting of upwards of 1500 volumes, the ball cal
culated to afford either ufeful inftradlion, or plea
lure. The conditions, together with a catalogue
«f the Library, may be fecn at every book-feller's
in town.
n. B. All transitions from and into the French,
Fnglilh jnd Spaniii Languages, executes, with ac
cur it) and dispatch. coim r.t'a. tj.
Valuable Stands for Buiinefs.
' FOR SALE—iy the Subfirtlir,
( Two I.ots of Ground,
r Situate on the fauti< tie ol Chcfuut-llrect, Le
r ti*e<;n Second and i hird ftreci. : o«e containing
' eighteen fee', arwl rtie other £?>• 1 • n feet, more or
lefj, en the ;ata i«<li» '
: Utru.-bneadth, one hundred and fert«i eig4«, mort
1 or less, to Carter's all 'T.
f Ther^--are, on Chefnut-ftreet, two iwo-flery
1 BRICK HOUSES
' (NumhtT» 8$ and 82)
Which may readily &c made ii.to one ; and. o»
Carter's there is a cenr&nient, well built
* three (1 ry
1 Brick House and Kitchen,
Almoii new which Im two rooms on a floor
and a front of eighteen feet on'faid al'oy.
This pro erty is clear of gr«unil-r*nt, and an
indifputabie title will be given to the purchaser.
The three House* willbefold feparatcly or toge
ther.
Further particulars may b« known on applica
tion to
ZACHARIAH POULSON, jvn.
No. 80 Chefnut-fireet, or at the Library,
j march gw
Escapes.
BROKE the Prison of Cumberland county, in
New-Jersey, and made iheir efcjvc, be. ween
1 and 2 o'clock, this mornin , two Men, who
were conviSed of stealing—one of th?m calls him
• felf J*mes St,rg%'. tiie other Edward Hambletnn—
I Leggiiagrry headed Man. about toyearsold, 5
1 feet 8 inches high, thick set, with a remarkable
. ] large head; Mambletoti is about tfi y#ars old, 5
| feet. 9 ol 10 iochev bifih, black hair'. L-ft the
1 priion in com; any wi:h live ah ve dHinfil>*s4
thievts, a lina'l man, «ho\alls l.imfelf Matthew
. j Morrifon, about 24 y'ars old, j teet 6 irrcheshigh,
f light hair, fair complexion, smiles when ta king i»
a wheel-wright by trade— Whoever will secure
1 thethievisin auy Gaol in New-Jurfey or Pennfyl
variia, (hall b« entitled to receive Ten Dollars for
the old one. Fifteen for the young one, and Twen
ty for Ma'thew Morrifon
I GEORGE BURGIN, Sheriff.
1 Bridgatown, march ij;. 24 —r,.tiai|W
The Commiffionv.rs
FOR carrying int» .ffeft th« TWEN fY FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Friendship, Limits, and
Navigation, bi lw«jn His Catholic Majesty and the
United Statcsof America, hereby give information
to all Persons therein coneefned —I'hat in order
to terminate all differences, on account of theloff
es fuftainedby the citiz ns of the Unit« 4 States, in
% conlequence of their Vcfle's nd Cargoe« having
be«n taken by the Suhjedts of His Ca'holic Majes
ty, during the late war between Spain and Franc-,
■ that they are ready to receive (at their Office, be
tween the hours of ten and enc o'clock, daily) all
complaints and applications, authorised by th* said
Article, dur/ng eighteen months, from the day
of the date hereof, and that they have power to
examine allfuch persons a- come bsfore them, on
i»th or affirmation, touching the com.laints in
\ qucftion, and also to receive in evidence,all wr't
; ten teUimopy, authentkatsd in such manner as
they Sail think proper to require or admit.
By Order of the Car»miJfio.>ert^
PETER LOHRA, Secretary.
Cammifiitr.cn Ofiice, AV 109, MkHerry
Jtrect, May 17<4, 1797.
Feb. 28, *98 —5l»"
*, • Ttci/i Printer 1 ! in tf.'e fever al States it U« f uglifi
ed the advertisement IjJt >Spring t are reqmjltd to
it one month, and fend iheir aecounis to f. L.
To be Let,
A three story brick House,
Wi'h Stlbles, and a Garden containing nearly one
acre of choice ground, frveral Summer Houses,
Fruit Trees, &e. on Race, and second street from
Schuylkill ; the whole in goor l condition, and the
situation high, airy and excellent lofr a place of
public en'ertainnaent.
An adjoining Lot, 40 feet front and iu deep,
is alfa to Ist.
For terms apply to the fubferifcer, at No. 30,
Pine street
Wm. CURRIE.
march 21. wstf
THE Subscriber informs those
to whom he is indebted, that a person wj.-t
attend every day, Sundays ixccpted, until the jft
of »>pril next, from the hours of 10 o'clock inthe
morning till 2 o'clock in th» afternoon, at the house
formerly occupied by him in Chefnnt-flreet, for
the purpose of (hewing all books, papers and let.
ters regarding his past commercial tranfaSions to
such of his creditor? as may think proper to attend
and examine them.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
march 1. aotr A
At a Meeting of the President
and Managers of the Delaware and Schuvlkii.l
Canai. Companv, Febru ry 171h, 1798,
Rtfolved, That ten dollarson each stare of Stock
be called for ; and that the Treasurer
give public notice thereof agreeable
to law.
ExtraSfrom the Minvtce.
G • ORGB VVOR <AI .l , Secretary.
AGREEABLE to a resolution of tjis President
and Managers of the Delaware andSchuyttilt Canal
Cotnpany, the Stockholders are hereby requ;red to
make a payment of ten dollars on each of their
refpefiivi jliares on or before the ;ft of pril next,
to WM. GOVETT, Treasurer.
February 2S. 2awt*
James C. £sf Samuel W. lniher,
AT TEEIX STCXIi,
corner of Arch and Front street.
B/trt FOK SItLR,
Cotton and worded Hofrtry in trunks,aflored"
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannel
Ditto fu'ty romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Pullicat silk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Maikafs ditto *
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taffrtits
4000 picci? Nankeens, and
Few chests best Hyson Tea
Alfo —1500 boxis best London-Window Gl-.f.,
from Bby6,to 19 by 14—and 15 hbds. Glals
Ware afforud, which they willdifpofe of cheaper
than any in the city.
_Kev- r8 2tawtf
LANDING
From on board the Schooner Range*, from
'Jacsokmt.L,
230 Bags, containing 30,000 wt. Coffee,
For Sale f>\'
SAMUEL HAYS,
No. 527 Chefuut-fhcct.
Whohss rrmainiogon hand 6,-co pieces In
dia NA NIC£SNS, of 4 fupcrior quality.
March If.
\ JUST RECEIVED,
ITKOM roaT'AB fUNCI,
And FOR SALE, by the S(/JKC&7C£JtS,
110 hhds. Coffee
46 t ercrt <Jo.
IQC barrels do.
100 hag* do
110 hogibesds of Mufcovaio Sugar
& v Surr< i% \i.
40 hoyfliends of Molafib*
4 haic of Cotton
t
WILLINGS fcf FRANCIS.
Pen.-lircct.
march It. §
To-morrcnv "will be Landed,
From on board tilt brig Benjamin Franklin, capt.
Jares, From Bordeaux,
Claret of superior quality, viz.
MEDOC 7Of the vint-ages of 179 c and 1791,
LATOUR / in cases
ALSO,
WHITE WINE, of th« vintage of 1790
FOR SAL' BT
PHILIPS, CRAMOND & Co.
march 7. §
Landing from on board the.ship
TeniiciTee, dpt. Smith, from Hamburg,
And FOR S/iLF by the . ohscrjkkrs,
325 pieces Quadruples Siiefias
400 do. Platil.aa
too do Crcas
52 d*. do. Ala Mor'.aix
100 do. Dowlas
30 do. red Oripei nrabiaa
20 o. blue Guinea*
100 down border-(t . (ardkeuhiefs
Eric & Leivu Bo 'hnann,
2 <, South ..'turd llrett.
A/.SO, ON HAND,
A cafe of printed iviuflins and Calicoes
march I}.
i HE term of Co-partnerfliip between the sub
scribers, trading uiifrr th. firm of John Wil
ier, jun. and Co. expires this day, and by mutual
conf«i« wiH not be renewed- l'he debts ar cl con
cerns of the fame will be fettled by John Miller,
Jun. to whom all those indeottd to the parmerfhip,
are earnestly requeued t» make payment to, with
out delay.
JOHN MILLER, Jun.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER;
Fehtuary 19 ftt
LA ND tNG,
From on board the Ship Sally, from
Calcutta,
ANB FOa Jill av THE SUBSCRI»I*,
1600 bags prime .Sugar,
800 do. Ginger
30 bales low priced piece Goods.
John Miller, Jun.
march 3 §
FOR SALE, by
John Miller, jun.
No. S, Chtfnut street,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
AMONGST WHION .Ul—
Gurrahs M .moodiea
Baltas Sannas
Guzzenas I'anda Coffaes
Guzzies Emertict
Blue Cloths Calic.es
Paltmpoors Romall Handkerchiefs
si mongft them are a great proportion of the ma
imfaflures of Pataa.
British Dry Goods,
ALSO,
Forty punchions ol high proof Rum.
February 19 5
Alex. J. Miller ?3* James Davis,
Having entered into partuerfSi|s under the firm of
Alexander J. MilKer Co.
INI OK.M their friendsin town and country, that
th y have opened a WholefJe Dry Good Stole,
at No. 64, South Ff.nt './reet, Philadelphia ; wher«
they now have, and intend keeeping a general af
fnltmeot of India, German t Jrijb t French and Bvi*
tijb Manufactures sot sale, on advantageous term*
for ealh or a short credit. v
February 19 g t f
Frefti I eas.
Ju/l Imported, in the Jhi.p Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
Anu Far Sale, />v
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Compting Houfr, No. 54, Chcfnut-flreet,
AND BT
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, aiTorted ; black and coloured Luttf
rtrings and Sactins, Nankeens, Caflia, large garJea
and common Fans, fattin aad lutestring Umbrellas,
while-bone sticks.
Tbty Lave also Ft>r Sale,
,Ell wide Persians. Bandanna Handkerchiefs,
1 rench Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes,
march 8.
IMPORTED,
In the Brig Benjamin Fran kLin, from
Bouideaux,
AND FO* SALS B* THE IVOlCltlßll ,
Claret in caft<
White wine in half casks
Sweet oil o' a superior quality in boxei and Lr.Bssft
Lunelle
Sauterne ( . „ ,
Macarty, and ( W«(e» m Cafe*.
Medoc )
Thomas Murgatroyd,
Nr.. ri, Walnut Street.
WH» lilt OH MAND,
BourdeSux Brandy in pipes ~s I a titled
Irish market > . ( tn
Medoc, and Sau'erne j ines ln CJ ! - draw'sask
Sherry wine in pipes and quarter caTks
Rota
Pimrnto in bag*
Two trunks of Umbrella*, arid
About 4000 bcihs'.s I lverpoolSalt.
m3 rch 19 tawftftf
ROSS iff SIMSON,
HAVE ?OR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, CofTas, and
a quantity ef B<ngal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in Lags and boxes
Jamaica, }
St. Vincents, S P.Blvl,
and Bengal j
300 Cifks RICE, .Bd
A parrel of (hip building REB CEDAR.
OA. 17. fCONGRESS' mu .
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. tff
Cai
STATE OF THE UNION. hie
as f
Wednesday, March 28.
The House having again resolved itfelf into a
committee of the whole on the ft ate of the
Union, and the amendment to the tint re
solution, moved by Mr. Sprigg, as to the
inexpediency* under exiftingcircumftances,
of resorting to war against the French Re
public—which amendment is to strike out j
the words French Republic, being under
consideration, tie
MR. PINCKNEY rose, and said he was
in favour of the amendment, because it 1
tended to make what he thought an improper
proposition, in some degiee, nugatoVy;, for he
believed to agree to the resolution without it B
would be prejudicial, to the interest and wel
fare of the country, as he did not think the 1
period was arrived which called for a decision
onmeafuresofwarorpeace. If fuchla decla
ration had been necessary, he fliould have ex
petted it to come from gentlemen in favour
of a war, declaring, that it is expedient to go
to war, as it was a very uncommon thing to
declare we will not do a thing. His (trongeft ™
reason against coming to this resolution, how- 1
ever, w:is, that at this period the House had v
not fufficient information concerning the whole
of this bufuiefs, to enable them to form a c °r- •
re6t judgment upon it. The President.told
the House, indeed, that he had little hope of J
a favourable termination of the negociation,
but they knew nothing of the train of the ne
gociation, or oi the circumftancesattending it.
They knew that our ConrtmilTioners had not '
been received; but they had not fufficientin-
formation as to the manner in which they had
been treated, to enable them to come to the S
decision proposed. . t)
The gentleman who moved the resolution,
said it was time to come forward and declare
whether we will have peace or war. Would '
to God, said Mr. P. it was in our power, by
any such declaration, to avert war, or maintain
peace; but he believed this did not depend
upon any declaration of ours. Inqueftionsof
war, there were always two parties, one of P
whom was generally the aggressor, and the
other generally passive. In the present cafe, "
he considered this country as the pallive
and therefore any declaration on our part
would have little effect. We know that indi
viduals, or nations, induced to pursue mea- IU
fures from interest or passion, are not eai'ily
diverted from their purpose. Iftlie¥«Bch 0
are aituated by either of these motives, no 0
declaration of ours will prevent tlve calamity. 01
Such a proposition would rather accelerate 01
than prevent the evil. If our declarations "1
could have availed, they have not been want- '°
ing. Frpm the firtt period »fa Hiifunderftand- <u
TTig 'petween the two countries, declarations
have been made deprecating war in general
terms, but particularly with that nation. A
Minilter Plenipotentiary had been sent to ex
plain the views of this government, and to re- l!
roove any jealoolies which might exist, and to
' make such fpecific propositions as were tho't "
necessary » but our ininUt?r was rejected witji
outa hearing. 'The next meafurt was to fend S'
special Commitlioners, in order to fettle our j P 1
difference?, and avert thfr calamity of war.—
We have therefore made fufficient declarati- 13
ons of our pacific intentions. Indeed he tho't T )
too much had been rested on these declarati- D
ons, as nothing had been <}. one for pur de
fence. When we looked at our sea-ports, "
and law their defencelefs condition, he tho't c '
it was evident fufficient attention had not been ,c
paid to them, knowing that war mijjht, at
least, be a poilible event. _ *
But the gentleman from Virginia (Mr.
Giles) lays the affairs of th-: cftlintry are ex- r<
tremely changed, and that this 13 the time foi
making a stand, and this opinion he draws 11
from the President's message. He thought it J»
was well observed yesterday by the gentleman '<
from Connecticut (Mr. Dana) that the change «
which the President spoke of might relate to »
the change ot disposition in the persons own- 11
ing merchant vetlelsas to their views in arm- "
ing.
Mr. P. thought there was another reason 'J
■why the declaration did nol go the length "
which had been stated. In the course of a j!
war, the Wndutt ot belligerent powers to neu- 1
tral nations is apt to change. At the begin- "
nlng of a war, neutral trade is not so much t
preyed upon as it afterwards comes to be. In t
the beginning of the present war, we- saw no (l
declaration from Denmark and Sweden as to t
the course they intended to take with respect c
to their neutral trade; but when spoliations c
were committed upon it, the governments of I
those countries csune forward aud said, " as- V
fairs are now changed, we think it necessary to 1
convoy our xeHsk. and to give them the pro- 1
tedtion to which they are entitled by treaty."
This conduct was never looked upon as a cause r
of war j on the contrary, those countries re- r
main at peace, and are likely to remain so. t
Therefore, a. cluuge in defenfive measures did <"
not bring the matter to the point which the I
gentleman from Virginia supposed.
This resolution differed exceedingly from any *
thing which took placfe when we had a mis- t
understanding with England in 1794- At that \
time when England issued her extraordinary j I
order of the 4th of November, and our com- \ *
merce was depredated upon, measures were i c
fpokenoffor countervailing the injuries which j 1
our citizens experienced, but 110 proposition j t
like the present was produced. We are now 1
aggrieved and injured, in a mod extraordinary <
manner, but we fay we will not go to war.— 1
On a former occasion he had heard of a varie
ty of reftridtive regulations, proposed with a 1
view of restraining the injuries committed up- 1
on us, and to bring Great Britain to reason ; 1
and he did expe£t something similar would
have been proposed 011 the present occasion, 1
but nothing of the kind had appeared. It I
was true we had not so great hold of the 1
' French nation as of the Britilh, in this refpett, 1 !
but we have some ; and he believed measures
might be taken which would induce that na- ;
tion to liearreafon. But, instead of this, it is .
proposed tli.it we should fay, " we have been
injured and aggrieved ; but we will not op- '
pole you, we wilt not go to war with you." ,
The gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Nicho. ;
las) seemed to reft great part o£ his arguments
upon the /ower oi the IJoufe to make war, or
to declare peace. Mr. P. agreed that this
was legislative power, and not eSecu,tive, 2nd
he was for this Hcnfc excrcifing fhat power;
but, aihe had already (tated, they had not at
present fuf£cient information 011 the fubjett.
But tiiat gentleman seemed to charge the Ex
ecutive with all the evils ot our present (ittia
tion. Upon this fttbjecl he concurred in opi
nion witli the.goirteman from Pennfylvaoia
(Mr, Gallatin) that it was unnccefTary to en
quire from whence our present situation arose,
or 10 go into rccrirnrtation. This Could only
tieate heat, and kaep up that idea of div'.fion
which had been iiiuui'cioufly-fpread, and at a
time when the legiilature ought to do all in
its pointer to extingtrfh it. [Mr. Nicholas
explained —He had laid he would not go into
an enquiry as to the conduct of this govern-
ment with respect to France ; bat if any ro ® a " '
fures of ours had produced-the breach, they
muff be those of the Executive, because t le
legiilature has had nothing to do with them. , Jo
He would allure the gentleman from South- ' j,
Carolina he Ihould not'iake the lead in any he
inch enquiry, but keep out of view, as much
as poilible, past tninfaaiaru.] Mr. P. was ar
elad to hear thtsexplanatio'ii. H« lumfelf be- tli
Sieved the measures of the Executive had ie
been calculated to promote peace ; but it was
not neceflfary to go into that fubjeCt.
The gentleman from PennfyWan.a (Mr. th
Gallatin) had gone further than perhaps the ti«
resolution on the table would warrant. He la
fays the adoption of this resolution will go to m
prevent the taking of any mealures which le
■ may, in their tendency, lead to war. ltgen- tn
tlemen meant by this that it was to prevent la
any measures being taken for the protection . tl
ot our commerce, the adoption of the refolu- , in
tion would not only declare that we will not . t.
go to war, but that we will not take any mea- j tl
fures for the defence rtf our property. It ap- j h
peared to him, that that gentleman had him- j c<
felf given the belt reasons for modifying this , n
resolution, so as to make it as little mifchiev- 1 g 1
ous as poilible. For he had told the commit- ,
tee that France had set at nought her treaty >v
with us ; but though they have done this, 1j
said Mr. P. they have endeavoured to juftity n
their depredations, by insisting that, accord
ing to that treaty, it was neceflary for velfels w
tp carry a role d'quipage. Mr. P. added, p
there was another order of the French govern- e
ment which was so contrary to right, so cruel o
in its consequences, so degrading to this coun- 1<
■ try, and so inhuman in its tendency, that he e
could not avoid noticing it. It was the de
cree which declares that every American citi- n
zen found on board the privateer of an enemy, a
lhall be considered and treated as a pirate, g
They pretended to found this order on our 0
1 treaty with Great Britain ; but he willied t
, gentlemen who thought it iuftifiable, to turn J
to that treaty, and fee whether there v*as any '
thing there which countenanced so violent a t
, measure. But this is not all, the gentleman ,
from Pennsylvania allowed that a decree had 1
lately been palled which violates all the laws 1
! of neutial nations, viz. that if the property, j
1 manufactures or produce ofanenemy be found
f on board a neutral vessel, it (hall be good t
r prize. Our ministers affo, who were com- ®
! mif'ioned to conciliate, and even to make co.l- 1
cellions, though they had been in Paris thr:e
' months, cap in hand, had not been able to get c
$ a hearing. Underall these grievances, what, 1
said he, are we called upon to do ? H'e should A
not have been surprized if some one, fired t
, with the injuries we have received, had bro't t
! forward a proposition for war. But, inflcad 1
( of this, smarting as we are under injuries-, '
our commerce bleeding at every pore, and 1
; our co-rr.rry aeeply huiiniialed, we are called 1
5 upon to fay, " You have done every thing
\ to injure, insult and degrade us, but we hays S
defervedit; we will do nothing to oppose '
. you. Though God and nature have given 1
I us power we will not go to war with you, nei- •
ther on the present ojcafion, nor on any o- '
ther, whatever injury you may commit upon 1
" us."
, Was there any thing in our situation, which
t called for this declaration ? He thought not. 1
The gentleman (Mr. Giles) fays he would not
j go to war, except in cafe of invasion. He ap
r . prehended this neither a wife nor a fafe poli
. ; cy. He believed, if it was necessary, the ca
lamities of war must be reported to. Ifinju
t ry upon injury is heaped upon us, we fhail be
brought into a situation in which it will be ne
cessary to annoy our enemy. He did not fay
that point was yet come ; but it will be ne
t ccil'arv, prudent and wife, to take measures
n to prevent the enemy from coming to our
t do<jr. Because, if prepared, we should, as on
a former occasion, be enabled to intercept any
troops which may be sent against us. But he
regretted to fee so different a spirit animating
our citizens now, from that which animated
s them in our revolutionary llruggle. We did
t not then prevent our vessels from arming in
n felf-defence. Though we then deprecated
e war, we made preparations ti meet it, if it
0 (hould be necessary. Though the extsnt ps
injury was not then so great as at present;
. when all the ufurpition attempted upon uS,
was a regulation of taxation—a tivo-penny du
n ty upon tea, yet it caused a ferment and spirit
h which was effedhial at that time, and which
a spirit, he trusted, was not now extinguished.
Indeed, he was convinced, that if gentlemen
_ in favour of the proposition, could fee our fi
h tuation in the fame light in which he and o
n thers saw it, they would be in favour of as
o strong measures as any of them. The coun
-0 try fi*om whence these gentlemen generally
come, had shewn its determined opposition to
js oppression from whatever quarter it came,
if He wished, tlierefore, they could fee the op
*_ preffionsof the government whose conduft he
0 had been reviewing, in the fame light which
he did.
■» However-hnmiliating pui conduct might be,
fe he repeated, it would hdve no effeit upon that
nation. He did not wish to animadvert upon
j. the condutt of any country; but there was
d oneinftanceof the treatment whicli the French
ie Republic has exhibited to an independent
(late, which he co. id not help noticing. It
iy was in refpeit to Venice, which would (hew
f. that no humiliation, no concefiion, wonld a
n vert the calamity which threatens us, if the
•y j Rulers of that country are determined upon
1- i war. If he was not misinformed, the cir
re 1 cumftances of the cafe were as follows : The
h Venetians were at peace, and endeavouring
in ito pursue a line of neutrality. A tumult a
w rose in one of their towns, and the populace
ry did, in a barbarous and molt ur.juftifiable mAn
— ner, massacre a number of French soldiers.
;- This was an injury which called for and de
a served atonement. A retaliation to»k place
jji fully commensurate with the crime. The Ve
-1 ; netiansmade every concefiion in their power.
Id But the French Csmtnander was not fatisfied,
n, he took vengeance upon them by overturning
It their government —a government which had
lie ftopd the test of joo years. He fliould have
it, 1 supposed that the French would now have
•es been fatisfied ; but the matter did not (top
a- here. The government being overturned,
is 1 the people were {iromifed a free government,
en t and an amelioration of their condition. They
p- | were prQC«cdingin the establishment of a go
| vernment ; the treaty.-carne to be
p. ; lnado betwixt the French Republic and the
its Emperor, he fuppoted it was thought to be
or the interest of that Republic to facrifice a part
lisps tlrs territory, and to give it up to the Em
nd peror, to take a part so themselves, and to
r; annex ano.her part to the Cisalpine Republic,
at This was done ; and lie believed the very p*rt
t. which had committed the offence against the
x- French government, had been rewarded, by
1a- being joinfd to a free government,
pi- Thii diviiionof the Venetian territory was
nia not the work of a young officer, elated by
:n- victory and conmieft, or enraged by the treat
fe, ment wh:ch h'S soldiers had received. The
nly French Direitory had conte forward, and by
ion their decree, had »pplauded the wlrple con
it a du6t of the r general in the most unqualified
;in terms, particularly as to Venice and Genoa.
.as He would not take up the time of the com
nto ' mittee by reciting the conduft of the French
ro- towards the latter republic, ThecafepfVe-
nice was «**« to fcew ho* little to j,m
be e*peCted from a.. j th ,
Mr. P. hoped he hud toewn iflfficicfttrw
sons wliv this refutation ought uot to b< -
i Ireed to, at least in its ariraal form He l.«t.
hoped they should go on making t . . Ull
the wa,Y proposed by the second re o ,
; andagfee toVuch reflritionsw.th refpea ope
the arming of merchants veiicls as .
, thought the g
ticuMy to one inflance. That gentleman P
: fays, th at whatever aggrertions and «fi.te |g
. may be heaped upon us <he'upporterso VVI
: resolution, will not go to war. Ihe p p
tion held a directly contrary language, l
fays, "that, under present c.rciimftancM, j°
i the United States deem it advisable jo rel "
!!in a state of peace." [ Mr. P.NCK« sa id,
: the reason why he had made rtm r.-matkwaN
. , that velterJay .the gentleman fcfffclt MM, ft
. }he should not be for gum? to war, un^fi^t he
■ 1 country waj He, theiefpre, j
; ! nefte.i the resolution and this .declaration to
. ' ?ether.] Mr. G. (aid, he full repeated the
■ : fame thing ; that we ou ; ;ht n°t to de
/ war beyond the limits 01 the United States.
Bur he drew a contrary inference from this,
/ from that which that gentleman had drawj),
- because he had accompanied the declaration -
s wi th another, that he was perfectly ready to j »
prepare to that extent for defence. He would <
. explain the grounds of this opinion. \v ithin ■
1 our own limits, we are capable ot making J
. fbmethiag like exertion, and there he believ
e ed exertions might be made to advantage.
- Indeed one of the propositions which is con
. netted with the present, goes to this purfctfe '«
and therefore, with what propriety could tue
gentleman fay, he and those who were oi His ™
r opinion, were not for preparing for defence V
till the enemy is at the door f Nor could he
n fee any thing like humiliation in this. Nay,
y lie was convinced, if we carried our prepara
a tions for defence beyond our own limits, in- 1 '
n stead of gaining glory or honour, we (hall P
j meet with nothing but disgrace, asweaienot
s to make a defence at sea. Indeed J
the moment we get beyond our jurisdictional
I j line, defence will become offence, becaule 11
d there will be no evidence bj' which it can be
ascertained by whom the attack commenced.
. It would, therefore, be unvfife to permit our- *
e selves to be placed in this frtuation. lf»*f w
. t object was to bei effected by going o**? to lea, *
it mud be the protection Our commerce »
d with Great Britain ; hut it was known thai n
cl the two aits of iV.E Britilh Parliament, which lr
>t took plac*:n January last if peace continues,
d may take that trade, in a great measure, froiih ®
s, "Us. He did not think, therefore, that this »
d was a fufficient objeft for which to incur so J
d muchrifk.
g At pjrefent, fad Mr. G. there is a pretty *
s gelieral opinion in the country (and he thoughi S
> there was much ground for the opinion) that 0
n there is a difpolition in a part of this houle, 0
j. and in part of the government, for war ; and c
he thought it was proper to come to a declara- j 1
, n tion upon the fubjeit. This would not only
have a good effect upon our own citizens j v
h but it would convince European powers, that e
t. though we were preparing for defence, we 0
3 t were not preparing for war. 1
Mr. G. said, he was not fatisfied with the a
i_ conftnitlion which the gentleman from Con- f
nefticut (Mr. Dana) had given to that part 1
of the melfage which speaks of our situation 1
>e being changed. He did not believe the Pre- r
.. fident had any reference to the dispositions J
iy of the people," but to the state of things ge- '
.. tierally.
es The apprchenfion of war had already begun <
LIT l " ttilergfcctrWr *
?n the country. He had received information 1
!y that produce had fallen in price, and that the 1
lie sale was very dull. He was of opinion, there- 1
-,g fore, that the proposed declaration, if agreed 1
ed to, would appease the minds of the people.— (
id It was said it would have no good effect upon I
in the Executive Direftory. He did not know j 1
e d that it would. But it could have no bad ef- j '
it feit ; and it might have a good one—for he i :
ps did not think that body qtiite so abandoned as '
t. some gentlemen thought them. 1
iSj The gentleman last up had spoke of the par- 1
' u . tition of Venice. He himfelf saw it with con- '
rit cern ; but where was the difference in crime
c h betwixt the French Republic and the Empe
d. ror ; each took a part. But what was all this
en to the United States ? Were they to go to
si- war to avenge thi» partition > We heard no
0. thing of this kind, some years ago, when a
as partition of Poland took place. For his own
n- part, he wished to leave the powers of Europe
lly to themselves, and to draw ourselves within
to our own boundary, where we should be fully
ie. equal to our defence against any power on
( p. earth.
he Mr. Dayton (the Speaker) said, that mod
ch of the arguments of the gentleman who spoke
last from Virginia (Mr. Giles) were most con
oe, clufive in favour of tUe amendment, altho' it
iat appeared to bo his intension to vote against it.
ion That member had deprecated war as the
vas greatest of calamities, and spoken of peace as
ich thefirftofbleftings, and yet alUhis warmth of
«nt declamation in favour of pacific tneafure-. had
It resolved itfelf into an anxiety to maintain it
ew with one nation only. As to the objection
a- that the amendment was notimmediatelycon
the netted with the meffageof the Prefidenf; Mr.
ion Dnyton remarked that not that communication
only, but the " State of the Union" was un
"he der consideration, and it was upon this broad
intr ground alone that the resolution could have
S- been introduced, for it did not naturallv arise
acc out of the meflage, Which had not proposed
in- to Congress to declare war, nor to att eflen
jrs. fively in any respect. ,
de- In attempting to render that resolution by
ace amendments less objectionable, he would not
/e- be underltood as approving it, for altho' the
er. sentiment was jirit, altho' the position
ed, true, yet nothing could be more idle than to
ing employ ourselves in lengthy difcufftons of
had what it might be incxp;Jicnt to do, at -a time
ave when all fides of the House agreed that we
ave ought to deliberate on what ought to be done
lop for the defenceof the countiy.
ted, Hcrw could that committee, afting as tFigy
:flt, were, under the molt solemn commitCpn that
hey could be given to a committee of the whole
go- House, juftify their employing their time in
ibe going the roundp£ upon what is
the inexpedient to be done. Tins resolution if
>be agreed to, and u thoiifund others of the fame
3art negative kind, would fdrnifh no ground for
ia- legislation ; and to legislate, and not to draw
1 to up and adopt certain political creed* anddoc
>!ic. trines, was the business which they were sent
p*rt here to perform.
the Mr. Dayton c®Hed the attentipti of gentle
by men to the of the Prelldent, which
they had particularly quoted, and asked whe
was ther that communication 'did not call upon
by Congress to conCder what meafiires were ex
eat- pedient to be adopted'ior " protecting our
The fea-faring and commercial citizens, for re
by tending any exposed portions of our territory,
:on- for replenishing our arsenals, for eftablilhing
ified founderiesand military manufactures, and for
noa. providing fucli efficient revenues as will
am. be necetlUry to defray extra expences." He
inch repeated the enquiry whether these important
Ve- objects and menus of defenci were not vaore
irirper for their deliberations and more con-
ormable to their dCity as legillators, than/*
he difcuflion and adoption of the refotu- n
ion on the tabl<, which amounted to nothing '
f carried, except to fix cenlune by strong, mi- =
ilication against the firft inagiftrate ot the
wi ion. If the advocates of the resolution »
, cr lilt in opposition to the amendment, he ai
hould be irreiiftably led to suppose that not 0<
in earnestness to maintain peace, as was pro- pi
ic-i&d, but a de'ire to have it underltood that «
:he Prefipent was in favour of war, and that
ie was contemplating aftual hostility on the re
part of t||iis country agaiufrthe Republic, and g<
hat the House of Representatives was put- tl;
lint r a 'veto by this act upon such intention, 1>
ivas the re»l object of those gentlemen. Mr. ai
Dayton concluded with faying who
loved peuce with all the world, mult vote for ar
the amendment, ,but those who regarded it h;
anly towards the French Republic, would be tl
right in adhering to the original proportion. J'
>lr. Shepard said, the rcfilution before oi
the committee, feeiried to carry with it Sli y<
idea that the of the President was a p;
tlechirationof war, and that tjiis was lo deflroy p :
its effeft ; and to prevent them, if war Ihouid
be necelfary, from taking proper meafurcs of w
liefence. He was not for going to war ; but f Q
for taking every measure lo keep out of it.— z<
In order to effect-this, he wished to prepare w
fordefence, which he considered as the bell .
fccurity against war. He inlifted upon our tl
right to do this, regardless of any foreign na- 11
tion. He would not only fortify our ports, P
but have armid velfels to defend our <.oafh, ft
and hold our militia in requisition. He had '1
heard the meUage of the President called a de- lc
claration of war ; but for his part all he had ' a
heard of war was from gentlemen who are so 0
loudly opposed to it, as if they were the only l <
men in the tountry that had any value for its n
peace and happiness. Was any part of this "
alarm made by men who fought eight years °
lor the independence of the country ? No 2
such thing; they wished the country to re- t]
main in peace ; but they wished it also to be (l
prepared for war. He was opposed to the re- 0
foltition; but if itmult pass, he should wish. a
it to pass with the amendment. &
' Mr. Harper. When this resolution was I'
firft proposed, si appeared to him to be one or '•>.
fnofe nugatory fheafures, whicJt >ai&ht «ttfeer 1
be agreed to or rejecle-l, without producing j ;
any cft'ssaij a'hi until he fa«t the resistance 1
which U>as given to tjie amendment, he re-
main».-d of the fame opinion but now he
found it was to fay to the French Nation, you
may comriiit against us injury atier injury, and 1
insult after insult, we npver ivill rejiftyou\
If this were not the inten.ion, why relist the
amendment? Taking this u> be thelntention, 1
he should bestow some observations upon it. 1
Gentlemen preach?dabout peace. They cry
Peace, Peace, as if we, holding thefcale of the 1
world, had the power to preserve it. Do not ■
gentlemen know that peace or war are not in 1
our power ? They do know it, and that all in 1
ourpower is to rejifl or Jubmit. Was not. the '
clamour which was heard about peace, in so (
many words, faying you muftfubmit, not on- ■
ly to what injuries you have received, but t >
what you may hereafter receive ? Was not
every advance, on our part, tor an adjustment
of differences, met with new injuries, and new
infultsf It would not be denied. Ifpeacewas
all that gentlemen wanted, they would take
the resolution in general terms, as proposed
to be amended ; but their opposing it shews,
that they have no objection to hostility, if it be
not again the French Nation, lie would not fay
whose ferhiants they were desirous of being,
but against whom they dread they are afraid
td lift up their finger. And this was the spirit
of peace which th'ey wished to preserve—a
which he deemed vile fimmiffion—a
spirit which was afraid, to complain, an3~
which met every new insult without murmur.
Mr. H. rejoiced thft this amendment was
made, because it had umnalked the intentions
of the mover and fiiftjiorters ot the original
proportion. They were now obliged to avow,
! it is not peace with all the world which wc
| want, but peace with France—a servile and
; abjeft submission to one nation—a nation, in
; behalf of whom they have heretsfore been
eager of war ; fbr, notwithstanding all their
cries at present ' for peace, peace, when there
is no peace, they have, on a former occasion,
been equally zealous for war. All their efforts
were then used to involve this country in war
upon the fide of the French Republic ; but
now, when meafiires of resistance are called
or, not against France, but to prevent her
' rom wounding her enemy through our fides,
ftheir cry is turned from war to peace. This
he repealed, and if they denied it, he would
refer to written accounts of their discourses at
that time, wliic-h would prove that they had
fought war against England, and an alliance
offenfive and difenflve with the French Re
public. At that time, he and those who ge
nerally vote with him, desired peace, and it
required all their skill ap.d.firmnefste preserve
it, and much obloquy was thrown upon theni
on account of. their exertions. The ground
which he and Ms friends then took was, l«t
us firft try negociatlon ; if rt fait, we will
then join you in war. But these gentlemen
were, at that time, all in favour of war mea
fiires in the Srft mfiance. Whence now this
change of spirit? What is become of the spirit
of 1794, when it was said to be difgraceful to
negociate, and that it would be bafelyto sur
render the independence of our country to a
Foreign Power i He wilhed he could fee the
breaftsof gentlemen naw glow with the pa
triotism which then animated their brealts,
but, instead of rhis, what do We fee ? A spirit
of the most abjett kind. A spirit that would
leave all our property unprotected beyond
the limits of our territory ; so that our com
merce, from which is derived five sixths of our
revenue, is to be aba.idot.ed, left, in defend
ing it, we should give offenTe to the French
Republic. The committee were now told it
would be time enough.to prepare for war,
whenan invasion of ourcountry was attempt
ed. A'd why were they told this t Because
such an event is not likely to take place.
Gentlemen knew that all the hostility which
France .wishes tocommit against this country,
■ may be done by deflroying our commerce,
t But they are disposed to surrender this part of
: our rights, rather than refill ; and what fecu
-1 rity had we, that if the country were invaded,
> these gentlemen would then refill ? He appre
f he tided that the fame spirit which led them
; now to fubnjit, would continue to afhiate
r them.
Last year gentlemen were opposed to doing
- any thingwhich should alter the state of things,
t if this negociation, said they, fail, we will
then join you in aftive But now,
- when that time is come, they tell us we mufl
I (till fink lower, and become more degraded.
- We are to be contented, not only to fee our
II ships captured, our property deftr»yed, our
- sailors fed i&chains, our revenue annihilated,
r but we mnft fee the army of the enemy at
- tempt tp land, before we will refill.
■, Mr. H. said he would bring his proofs to
g shew that gentlemen who are now so
ir loud in their calls ior Peace, were heretofore
II the fiippoi'iurs of a War System. For this
e purple, lie adduced, Mr. Monroe's view oi
it the ceriducl of the Executive of the United
e States, which, h* said was a publication
which had met with the aloft u,i ! i. .■ rded and
enthufiaftie applauseS from alt it; . arty, and
he read from it an extract of a le:te; rom Mr.
Monroe toour Secretary.pf Stave, jted Paris, p
Sep. io, 1795, page 209 u:,tl \to at ills book
in which he states it to be his opinion, " that
if a suitable attempt be made,to engage the
aid of the Frencli Government in fuppurt of
ourclaims upon England, it may bcr accom
plished, and that to secure fuectfeir will be tie
ceirary to take the pods and invaile Canada."
Would any man, said Mr. H. who shall
read this padage, fay that the system of these
p-entlsmen, is a Peace system i And besides
thispropofitign for taking the poftsand Suva
ling Canadaj the fame gentleman proposes
an advance to France of five millions of dol
ars. Yetthefe are-the gentlemen who now
are willing to fay to France " we will not
fight you ; we give you licence to do us all
the injury you please ; you may fifcout half a
dozen frigates which will be able to block up
our ports"; and we give you this notice, that
you may effeff your purpose with little te.x
ykence, and not prepare a large fleet tor the
purpose." R
The gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Giles)
whose zeal for keeping this country in an ab
solutely defencelefs thrte, has (urpalled all the
zeal he ever before displayed, except that
which he had Ihewn, on a formeroccafion, tor
bringing us into war, has told- 11s that peace i»
'he belt thing we can have ; and that it would
be knight-errantry to attempt to defend our 1
property at tea. After our ministers have been
sent oft, and a decree pafied which muftde- p
(Iroy our commerce, and which had been al
lowed tobejuft cause of war, this was the j
language of that gentleman on the present ,
occasion, To shew this gentleman's conlif- ,
teney, and because his language was at that
time so spirited, so American, and carried
with it such force and energy,he could not for
bear reading anextratl from his speech on the
28th of March 1794, upon Mr. Dayton's mo
tion to sequestrate tfrit.th Debts. The ques
tion was not then whether we should arm for
our defence, but whether we (liould make an
attempt at negociation. The arguments of the
gentleman were, it was true, so me what ntil
placed, though they were nevertheless patri
atic»nd admirable ; and he could not account
for the ltrange con'raft of his present fenti
menv.s on any other ground, than that he be
lieved the true interest of this country was
only to be effected by a treaty of alliance with 4
France, and war with her enemy. GsutU
mfcn who were on a former accsthon in favour
of spirited measures m delence of our rights,
and were on tv,is occafiorr, the fame, are con
tinent ; though their arguments might, not
altogether be properly timed, yet they were
radically right.
Mr. H. then proceeded to read and com
ment upon, Mr. Giles's speech on Mr. v
Dayton's motion, contrasting all along the
fentimeuts he then delivered, which were
in favour of the molt spirited lueafures
against England, with his present opinions
w'ith to France, in doing which
he paid t':e highest possible encomiums to
the talents and style of the gentleman from
Virginia.
After finifhing his contrail, Mr. H. spoke
of the propriety with which his colleague had
; introduced the account of the treatment which
Venice had receieved from the French Repub
lic. Yet gentlemen had asked whether thii
was a cause of war for us ? The circumltance
! they well knew was introduced merely to
, (hew the effect which a tame, fubmiflive con
duit was likely to produce ; but they had cho
[ fen to give it this turn, in order to avoid the
t point which it contained.
, Mr. H. said, he would bring another exam
, pie to the view of the committee. He rtteant
I -f-frat oi Switzerland. A'trcmpt'ST&i «uenipt
had been made by France on the indepen
j dence of that country. After going a variety
s of lengths,'thev effefted their purpose of dri-
I ving from thence that unfortunate elafs of
men, the Emigrants, who had been perfecu-
ted by those who had usurped all authority
-j 111 France, and who (ought the rights of hof
n pitality amongst thpm. New aggreflions were
n made ; they took pofielTion of a part ot the
j. Swiss territory and displaced the;r magi Urates.
r Seeing tha. every fubmiflion invited frqlh insult,
, they united hand in hand, took up arais, and
5 reinstated the magistrates who had been dil
placed, and resolved to live free, or die. —
lr What was the consequence of this spirited
conduct ? The French withdrew from their.
, r territory,difavowed the measures of their ge
s neral, and declared that they delired nothing
jg more than to leave the Swift in full poflelfion"
jot their rights..
u Let us, said Mr. H. take warning by this
energetic example of the Swiss. Let us now
e begin to resist. Let us declare, that we wifli
topreferve peace with all the world ; that we
allow that peace is good, but that we believe
; t independence is better ; that peace is defira
,e ble,but not at any price—and then France
u will relinquilhheraggreffions.
Tburjdq)\ ttfarcb 1%,
II Mr. Josiah Rarker presented the petition
n of the merchants of Norfolk, praying for a hgbt
-- house to he erefted on Old Point Comfort, ">ge
is ther miith a copy of an aft of the legislature of
it Virginia, ceding two acres of land for the pur
:o pofe.—Referred to the committee of commerce and
manufactures.
a Mr. M'Doweli. informed the hoiife that toe
le committee appointed to wait upon the Pre/tdent
l " with the resolution ofycflerday refpsSling the can- (
s ' non purchased since 17 94, hsd done so, ana te
' * Pr-ftdent bad promised to cause the account to *e
j laid before the house. . . ,
1 Mr. Sitgreaves presented the petition 0]
John Stokejbury, a wounded captain in tht .ate
} r war, prayingfor a penjion.
" Mr. Livingston also presented the pet' "
:h of Samuel Jonts, a wounded soldier, P ra y'"S
u f o r payment of certain money due to bim, '
r ' had been received by some person byJalfef">P '
y Both these petitions were referred to m w»"
, C mittee of claims. , r ,.. M
A bill was reported m favour of '
;h lay lor and Jones, and committed /or
5 ' The biufe again went into a \f '
e V whole on the State of,he Union, when Mr. GlLit
occupied mofl of the fitting, g ar pers
, went, but principally in a»fiver to Mr. ?
d ' speech of ytflerdav. d few obfervat ™' c
e " front Mr.H»,« i* reply ; and
o-TiionovJ. J
;s" A Boy for
ill 0 1
W <s TTE.i-^boutl 3 year, «M, and !-as a^' a
J d H- to fervs, having beM of
it 18 years old, mprtfenw of the i i,othac
,l"' City and Mr. Thomas Hr.rrjion. He
"! r live md irifchifVOTis, hot iscapaa e
:d ' a very ufeful boy with a ir.alttr t! a
It- diatelyluper'mundhi.con^a.
ticularsapply to the Tin-tci b*'??.; '5
march 2S. -
his Hyson and Young Hyson
ted A few chefls of
ion o«r of Second *nd Pias ttrcet;. .77/w'XS 7VJr£S.
Fifth Congrcfi of the United Statu :
AT THE &SCOND SESSION,
Begun and held at the CHty of Philadelphia,
in the State of Pennsylvania, on Mon»"
day, the thirteenth of November,
one thousand seven hundred
and ninety-seven.
AN ACT
Declaring the consent of Congress to an etS of
the Commonwealth of Majfachufetts.
BE it enußed by the Senile and House of
Representatives of the United Stales of
America, in Congress assembled, That the con
sent of C'ongrtfs be and hereby is granted
and declared to the operation of an a«£t of J
the Legiftatttre of the Commonwealth of l
Mafiachufetts made and passed the fecoud I
day of February one thousand seven hun
dred and ninety eight, intituled " an aft to
incorporate Tobias Lord, Oliver Keating,
Thatcher Godard and others for the purpose i
of keeping in repair a piir, at the mouth
of Kennrbunk rivtr and to grant them aduty
for reimbursing the expend of ereftine the
fame."
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Rebnfentatives
TH : JEFFBR«ON,
Vice President of the United States
and President of ihe Senate.
United St tes, 7
Approved* March tj, j
JOHN ADAMS,
Prcjidcnt of the United States.
AN ACT
Declaring the consent if Congress to an ad of j
the State of Maryland, pajfed the twenty j
eighth of December, one thousand seven hun- j
dred and ninety three, for the appointment
of a health officer.
Sec. i.
JL3 House of Representatives of the
United States of America, in Congress cijfm
bled, That the consent of Congress be, and :
is hereby granted and declared, to the ope- \
ration of an aft of the general aflembly of !
Maryland, palled the twenty-eighth of De- j
cember one thousand seven hundred and
ninety three, intituled ".an aft .to appoint i
a health officer for the port of Baltimore, in
Baltimore county," so far as to enable the
State aforefaid, to collefta duty of one cent
per ton, on all vefleis coming into the dif
trift of Baltimore, from a foreign voyage,
for thepurpjfes in said aft intended.
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That i
this aft {hall be in force for one year from the -
pa fling-thereof, and fronr-thtnc<rtbTTle end
of the next ftflion of Congress thereafter,
and no longer.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
TH : JEFFERSON,
Vice President of the United States, '
and President of the Senate. '
United States," 1 '
Approved, March 27, 1798. f
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States. <
AN ACT !
To continue in force the fifth feilion of an aS I
intituled "an aS( in addition to the alt, inti- '
tuled "anaß to tjlahhjh the pojl-ofjice and j.
poff-roads within the United States." (
BE it entitled by the Senate and House of |
eprefentatives, of the United States of t
Am 7, in Congress assembled, That the r
' r> . ftion of the aft, intituled "an aft in
■ld> n to the aft, intituled "an aft to e- \
the poft-office and pod-roads within '
lited States," which feliou will ex- ;
pirc 1 the thirty-firft day of March, one 'u
t<> id seven hundred and ninety-eight, g
'hall e, and the fame is hereby continued d
1: terra to the third day of March next. ''
JONATHAN DAYTON, j
'aker of the House of Representatives.
TH; JEFFERSON, -
"ice President of the United States,
and President of the Senate.
United States, 1
. >ved, March 28, 1798. j
JOHN ADAMS, s
President of the United States.
AN ACT
For an additional appropriation to provide and I
support a Naval Armament.
Sec 1 XJ lt cnaded by the Senate and
Jl> House of R,p, efentatives of the
United States of America, in Congress affem
uled, That there be, and there hereby are
appropriated a further sum, not exceeding
one hundred and fifteen thoufand,eight hun
dred and thirty-three collars, to complete
and equip for sea with all convenient speed,
the Frigates, the United States, the Cori
flitution aHd the Conlkllationand a far
ther sum, not exceeding two hundred and
sixteen thousand fix hundred and feventy
nine dollars for the pay and subsistence, for
the term of one year of the officers and
crews which are, c>r shall be engaged'in the
service ofthe United States on board the said
fiigates, in addition to the sums heretofore
appropriated for those purposes, refpeftive
iy» remaining unexpended ; also, a sum, n
not exceeding sixty thousand dollars,
fray 'Tie wear, leffe*, expenditures of am
munition, and otbcrcurrent and contingent
citpences of the naval ai"mament ; also a sum, (
not exceeding two thousand two hundred
dollars, to defray the salaries of persons
havipg charge of the navy yaids at Norfolk, Im ,
New-York, and Portfmontb ; r.nd for the a
lentscf the feme. 'n
S ? c - 2 j 4nd If it furthy eriaSed, That
aii/l'n 'r p?roptiatd| Mbe paid
a d j.,,,,, d f tJ)c P
and mcom; of the current year, Bo t before
appropriated.
JONATHAN DAYTON
Speaker ofthe ftovfi of Representatives.
JH : JEFFERSON,
Vice President of the United States,
and President of the Sennit.
United States, "I
Approved March 27, 1798. j
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United Stales.
Deposited among the Rolls in the office of
the Department of State.
iia, Timothy Pickerino,
Secretary of State.
„ Wl| «•
House of Reprrfentative t ofthe United States.
1 his morning Mr. Allen moved in the
Jrloule of Representatives, that the Prefi
inf d L ent " 10U r ld veiled to communicate to
J House the Diipatches he has received
trom our Envoys at Parii, or so much there
/ or as is, hi .nsopiaion, confident with the
J iiitcreff a.ad fafety of the cotintry,
iTd 1 ■ M '"' S " ®f th raovtd to a! "end, by stri
king out the Utter words which give a dif
°r j cretlc f to Prelident as to what part of
•°H 1 di[patches fhail be Communicate.d
Mr. Gilc» moved another amendment, to
un - wit, to include in the.rcjueft a call for the
V> inuruftions to the envxy a -On motion, the
j further of the fubjeft was poft
poncd until Monday.
Jt}' —~
the HARRISBURGH, Mjrch2i t
At a court of Oyrr arid Terminer and
General Goal Delivery for the couwy of
Dauphin, held in thfc town last week, Sarah
Taylor, was eonvifted under the aft of as
sembly, of secreting the death of a bastard
child, and fentenccd to one years imptifon
ment.
Elizabeth oojivifted of the
like crime, received the fatoe fentcnce.
Susannah KeatOn, eonvifted of larceny,
was sentenced to pay a fine of 6 dollars and
undergo one year's imprisonment.
of \ Cornelius Stegor, coovifted of palling
„ty | counterfeit bank notes of the branch bank
in- ) of New-York, was sentenced to fifteen years |
snt impriionroent and pay a fine of 50c dol- .
lars.
nd The trial of John Hauer, and the others
the charged with the murder of Francis Shitz,
m . was unavoidably poitponed. Hauer could
nd . net be put on trial until the Friday of the
>e- \ court, and after that day had been wearly
of j consumed in the business, he proprofed ma
le- ; king ample confeffion, which, it is said,
nd P"t matters in a new train, and rendered it
nt : necefiary to defur the prolecution of their
," n trials until the nexPterm.
he
nt CAR LI L '. Mar h 21.
if. Yeflenlay'i mail brought us Kentucky papers
frum the 15th Novembe to the 13th Jan.—No
' material news is cun'aine 1i i tl.em. The best
hirmony seems tp prevail tet.vcen th' officers
at of the Span lb eovtrnment, and Mr. Ellirott,
he cipt. them?n uncierjhe r command
-;a «irest cwmpiainri"as, ro rne irr (Ttrtarity if the
, r miilp, t etween Pittsburgh and Kentucky, in ev
' try paper.
BxtrnS of a letter from a gentleman dated
Cbtckafqiv Bluffs, OH, 23, 1797, to his cor
respondent in this town.
•' We (ha!l n a few days emba'k far Natch
ez as the fort at this place, the ere&ion of which
detained us, was fort p ■ ate ! yefttrdav, and at
iwelve o'clock the American fl.rg was'difplayed
accompanied with 15 d»fch.'rges of cannon, it
which tine it received its name from capt. G«i
" n —FORI AJO A MS—There will be an offi
cer and a detachment f men left.
" I dare fay you have heard many various re
ports refpecling and the Dons, but mutua
\8 p ace and harmony has fuhfined ever (ince our
a rival at this place, and the fame good difpofi-
.'ion obtains at the Natchez. Biron de Ca on
rielet, the commandant thsre, wrote to capt 1
Guion expreffinjj great friendlhipi and offering ,
y houfei for the aceomnioHation of the American ,
if troops when they fhali arrive at that place, bu' \
le no alfurance of a relinaiaiffiment of" the f»rt. ,
| n " When col. H 'wari. failed with his gal ie t
from the garrison on the opposite shore, rrci- t
procal faliitcs were exchanged from thegmip rn a
■«r foit and their yalleygurts The day priced 0
c " ing their departure, the coloi.ei and offi ers gave c
ie 'ut an elegant dinner, nothing hut the r
t, greatefl hilarity and Tocul harmony prevailed a
d during our flay. The claret which was liberal- r
ly d'ftufed seemed to absorb all national anitnof- t
ities and to inspire fentimer.ts totally repugnant t
to political bickerings and maiignmt afper- e
fions " t
To be fold at Public Vendue, "
On SATURDAY, the 31ft of Marchinit. ut it e
o'clock, at Chifnut flreet wharf, for the benefit n
of the concerned.
Sundries favedfrom the wreck of theJhip John, v
S DNDtB £
5 coils of Cordage 0
16 boxes Window Glass tl
J I ditto hollow ditto ei
4s Sraws ol ! uinblers * a
1 pipes of Holland Gin p
® 162 (tiee s of Copper c ,
c I barrel of newr t'opper Nails, No. 169
Half a keg of old ditto
6 pair of lower Shrouds c(
1 old Sail ;
j 5 Cabbin Windows, with Glafles
S ditto with Blinds
: 7 iron hooped Water Calks
2 Hen « oops
2 ncwPump? with copper or brass chambers
Pump Gcer for ditto P (
I nchor, weight about 2700 lb.
I distq, about 1600
28 (beett of Copper
About two tons and half of Swedes bar Iron
I 2 Iron I'fne-s ■
CONNELLY fc? Co. Auctioneers. P 1
marcli : : •;
JUST PUB ISRED, le
AND FOR SALE AT THTS OFFICE,
(Price 25 Cents)
Refie&ions on Monroe's View ™
OF Ti'E CONDUCT Of THE EXrCUTlt't, n0
As pnblifhed in the q
GAZET I oi t-;,. CJM'I I'!' STATES,.
Under the signature of
SCI F 1 0, 5
In ivbicb tb ■ Comn-ercia! V am re of France is traced
to FaAron in tliia Counirj» as Us Sovtxc, £
and He Motives of Off-ft ion, tsTc.
"march 30. W
\
nue
ore -i" t. .. . .m-w—r ii i i.
PHI L A DEL PH IA ,
FRIDAY EVENING, March 30
1 1
COMMVKIC.ITIONS.
The acknowledgment, of a Deity and a
luperintending providence is so contrary to
the pradieeof the rulers of Fraw, Tom
I atne nnd his ft'low-laborers in the cause of
• atheism, anarchy, and defpotiiin, Bache
o anu Callsnder, that blafphimy and (Zander,
r'.peeing the Ptefident's-proclamation from
t -ru r >S " P ' SC " tS °f conrle.
The following i* a fpecinu-a from tlu
Aurora of the 29th infant which,ought to
tes. • mOTe '-* tenflvf iT Uwn than the ciWula
the t,on ° l^at P a P er allow—ir fofloVrsi
e {-,. 'Fo. fcarleft Ornnifcie ce should wat.t in
to , '^! lce ' refpe&ing Federal purity, "and
, e; j Jacobin guilt, our prefideot "haa issued a pro-
Te _ clamation for a fad and thanksgiving both in
the u" e day she fay " that we are " P laccd in a
hazardous nnd afflidive frtiiation by the un-
Iri- fnend]y difpbfition" &c. of a foreign pow
iif- fr ' lorl ' r " Adams wants to have
. the firft hearing ; and to roakf every pulpit
resound with declamations againtt France."
■ Ihe town of Roiibury in MafTachufetts,
is from 6 to 8 miles square, the number of
voters in the most fettled part, and where
the late meeting was held, is probably from
6 to 900.
Bache, inftrused by ths principal mover
nd of «'£ puppets, tells Caltender to dubb the
friends of the conilitution and government
•ah 0 the United States—Tories— -but, I would
a s" £ rtilt man al, d theft- uaderii rappers ;
ird 111 diforganikation,' if they are lobefotted as
}». to fupppfe; the people of the United States
will ever believe that the present, or late
he President of tjie United .States, and a long
lift of iSt»tefmen and heroes, who effected
ly, independent# of this country,areTorics J
„d 1 his is one.of the mod pitiful expedients the
faction have ever had recourse to—with re- '
n g fpeft to the friends of their country it is
nk harmlefs-fc-but as it affe£ts many of thecham
ars | P'°nsof the Jacobin party, it is cruel, in- j
ol- deed it is—for they were Tories, and glori- ,
ed in the appellation.
_rs
tz, ' strati of a tetter from Mafiachufetts, dited j
,ltj March 2i, 1798.
. " The situation of our tommillioners in '
f France must be disagreeable, for I can hardlv 1
'y of any one more f», than to tie in a con
la- fpicuous flation without the relpefl and confe
id, quenre which are eommon'y attached to it. A
[t man in fnch cafe must be every moment fubjeft
£ ; r to mortification and it would be better for him "■
to be undiftinguilhed ; but the intijgnitiei thev •
may fufler will probably have a good effefl on '
their countrymen. When we have taken every *
honorable course to fatisfy the French govern- 1
ment, and they hive in every initSnce treated t
our overtures with contempt, it is hardly pofii- ]
e " b!e that hoacft men of any party can long con
crs tinue te oppose the measures, which national \
''!» honor and l'afety may demand. Perhaps there
will he no tjnascr'jatcJj- 1
"e the members of congrefn, far after they have *
v been together th-ee or four months, and have a
became heated by party difpntes, they forget
the fentimencs of the people that sent them, and
entertain views and p.-ojeifts to which their cen- !
ftituents are entire strangers ; befid -s, they have ■,
" taken fides, and it woulfl be unreafonabie to ex-
c " pe£l that political conversions (hould be inftan- '
at taneous
- J
>/ henfions of achangeinthe government of
country, or the relations «f its several pa>ts ; j
" but 1 hope there is no danger of this at ptvfent ;
and I flatter myfelf that the condiift of the "
e " French, which lieretofort has pradoced our
,a most dangerous diflentions, will now serve to
Ur uniteuo. At the commencement of their revo-
ft- lution, perhaps no part of the United States
» was more eothufiaflically attached to their cause °
" thin the people of N*ew-E»gland : they eonfid- n
ered them as opprefled, and rejr iced m the pr»f
pei£l »f their deliverance : this-attachment con- . b
u ' tinued so long as the measures of the French ,Ii
were defenfive, and for some time afterwards ; j ft
e and the many proofs that were given ot this at- j.i
tachrnent, probably oecafioned the Britilh fpoli- j j
l: ' at ions. But when the French aflumed the fiyle | ,
of a conquering republic, the people in this part ri
' e of the Union began to fufpefl thepurity of tiieii
"* motives ; add when they proceeded to violate a<
'' all the principles of society at home, and over
'• run or insulted every state in Europe which bad j?
the name of a republic, or the femblarrce of iib
■t erty, tnd efpeehily when they wantonly attack- ! Cc
r ' ed us, and have treated our endeavors to appeal? i or
them, with insult; almost every one here is pt
convinced that the government of France is the tb
most unprincipled and the molt dangerous on re
( earth ; and it would now be difficult to find i re
. man who will judity their measures. But the
change has been gradual here, and the fame ,
, will happen I presume in the souther* states, .
' when the people have had opportunities for in- l "
formation, and leisure to refleft Our opinions be
of the views of France have otily altered a lit- an
tie sooner than theirs ; but they must be allow- an
ed time for the change, we mutt exerrift
a great deal of patience until that change takes
place. After ail, if we (hould be obliged to no
contend with France, or with any o'.her power, r°
after proper attempts for accommodation have ex
faired, I hope and trust that the people of this an
eoiintry wibbc found as national and as well u thi
n«ted as those of any other. Perhaps there will
fee j few that will prefer the interrfrs of the en
emy, for there are some traitors in all ceuntriet, f
but f am inclined to think that among the na
g tive Americans wc (hall not find an unusual pro- *°
portion of them."
feci
For the Gazette of tht United States. on
A ptrody on the much celebrated speech Er
1 of Logan. The blanks may be filled up at
pleasure, with any suitable name, from the an
l.yono—Gallico—Anarchio FaStion. (See for
letter to Mazzti). fle«
I appeal to any Frenchman to fay, if c
ver he committed murder or aiTaffination, dec
and gave hiin not praise, if ever he wh
•outraged America, and he commended him —i
not. During the long snd iteady course of to ]
Gallic depredation, remained idle in fro
his feat, an advocate for France. Such was a g
my love fur the French, that my country- caj
men pointed as 1 pafT-d, and fa id, " <
is the fri«nd »f Frenchmen." T would even der
have fratetnized with you, but for the he- Bo
teSti of one rr.An. General WaHiitigton,
f'*
••• ' » i ' «
5? at cne daft, in cold blaot? and uaprovaketJ,
of al! the fraternal prqjeflj of .
' IHe ligned the damned treaty with England
not sparing him, even the fight ot a paper
or document. There ru.;s not new, 3 drop
of American blood, in the veins of one of
his parly,
I his called on me for revenge. I have
fought it * I have gu'led many. 1 have
id a part.y. glutted my vengeance. For my
rto country, I rejoice in the hope of her con
'om tulion. But do not harbor a thought tfiat
:of I blulh for my conduit. ■ never felt a
che blnlh. He will not turn on his heel, to
ler, save him from shame. Who it there to 1
-om .Bourn for i not one.
r ' C " ' (
t\o GAZETTE MARINE LIST. J
ul»-
! PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED, »AYS- •
anc Schr Weymouth, Guthrie, N*w>York 4 I
,r ?" Hannah, Brady, PafTrftnaqunddy '5
I The (loop Betfry, Masse/, fmm hence to
II a St. Croix, has put back, having loft one of .
un " her rudders irons.
Capt. Foller of the Angeljca, failed from
ave Curracoa, Feb. J4. Of Acquaiu.fell in with
P* the British frigate Aquiion. of 32 guns, capt
e • Craycroft, who sent an officer on board, and „
after cxamiaing the vcflLl's papers, politely n
difmiifed her. —The Aquilon l.ad in coiar j n
0 pany the following vessels : f<
e^ C Sb'p Jane, Wallace, of Baltimore, and L
° n fchr,Fanny, Dennis of Newhuryport, both
from Jacquernel, brtund to Acqitin, and the
fchr Frieudfllip, Odlin of Phihdclphta. from v
*. er i Curracoa to Jacquernel, which vcflels went fl
le into the Mole on the 6th ipft. Marih 2d
8 ?j fell in with the British (hip Stag of 18 guns v
11 capt. Kelly, from Jamaica W Norfolk with i\
," rs ' the followiii* vefleb under convoy —Brig
a * Nonpareil, Martin, of Norfolk j Nancy,' d -
Luve, of Portfinouth, for Ponlan<t ■ —fchr.
c Patty, Gr«:j, of unj for SO.-in :C jaiinerce
Hammond, of Saiulwicb, for fiatannab, aotl
j a brig for Halifax, (N. 8.) " n
March 25, lar 36, 50, N. 72, 40, ' l
,spoke the (hip Stagagain, who had parted
le ~ with her convny.
26th, at 8 P. M, spoke the ihip Caroline,
!"" Motley, from henceto Liverpool, Cape He- q
"■ lopen VVXS. distant Bor g lesgues.
u " j The fchr. Angelica, Foller, from Cur- j
J racoa, atid fchr. Weymouth, Guthrie, from
i New-York, are below. u
e Captain Williams, of the AAive, left at
in Cuba, on the2j h ult. the (hip Nancy, Har
j]v rifori, of Baltimore, to fail in ten days ;
m Atlantic, Smith, do. do. ; brig Gracy,
fe- Laurence, of New-York, on trial ; Amy,
A Burnham, of Stabrook, do.; fchr. John,
im Thomas, do. ; Happy Return,
leT Fifk, Baltimore, do. ; Yeatmai), Crance,
0 p Philadelphia, do. ; Paragon, (defined by
ry capt. and crew) N. York, cleared ; Hannah
■n- Barnes, for New-York, in 10 days; Neu- w
trality, Atwater, New-Haven ; Polly,
Booth, Baltimore ; Experiment, Bclding,
ial Ceres, Turner, Warren ; Ndly,
;rf Pease, Philadelphia, for Baltimore ; and ]
1- three others names unknown. On the 13th
ve was boarded by the Thetis British frigate,
ve and treated with civility.
•"
" i New-Tort, March 29. j,
A«RIVi:D. u Y! 7
x _ Barque Guftava, Hicks Genoa 90
n- Jame3, Fitch Havre de Grace 51 |-
Lindeman, Barke Havannah 20 i
•e- Scb. Sally, Bings Charlellon 7 K "
1 " gei
t| # By this day's Mail.
he * in,
ur NEW-YORK, March 29. PB
to: Yeflerday arrived brig James, capt. Fitch n .
es rom Havre de Grace, which place (lie left col
fc on the sth February. By this vessel Rou;n the
newfpapcrs are reeeived to thu 4th ult wh
if- A gentleman pafTengcr arrived in the a
i- . bove vessel, informs that he saw a letter from ~
:h , Mr. Gerry, dated Paris, Feb 2d, which
t ' j stated " that the ajairs bettveenthe republic and A
j' the United States remained in ftatu quo. and c
l e that all the .-.merican commifftoncrs -were in Pa.
rt «f " ~h
ii This gentleman likewise adds, that very ">>
te adive preparations were ft ill carried on in all c<! . l
J the ports of the republic for an invasion of
England, that he did not learn any Aineri. p'" 0 '
t | can vefiels had been carried in under the new ri g<
, r i orders of the directory j and that it was are
is pretty generally thought, were Mr. Gerry
e tbe only negociator, matters between th« two j
n republics might be fettled amicably.—Thus far r 'ea]
4 report. [Daily Advertiser.
By this arrival we are verbally informed
. that the French still shew a serious design of n
invading England, as gun boat 6 to the nura
s ber of about 100 have been built at Havre, /
- and more building, which are to be manned and
- and manoeuvred agree bly to Tom Paine's T.
* plan, each carrying too men, and a can- Boe
* non, which cannon, by some machinery, is
to be launched on (here in a moment The A
- experiment has been made, and, we are told,
s answers ft> well, that the Frenchmen fay
they arc " fare of England!" A)!u
' Besides these boats, there were in the t0
port of Havre, two frigates with their fails
bent, and four more in great forwardnefs,
to aid in the expedition. _
We hear nothing of Buonaparte's difaf- re
feftion—but, it is said, " he is the onlt vv
one capable of introducing the Army of l |
England t« his Britannic Majesty."
On the 6th of Marfch, Capt. Fitch spoke m
an Englifti brig, which, a day or two be- in
fore, parted the homeward bound Jamaica Rl
fleet—all wdl.
A few days out, and capt. F. was boar- j,*
ded by three French privateers, one of rlo
which was the Buonaparte from Bourdraux *»'■
—his papers llridMy examined—and fufftred
to proceed—telling him, t\at if he had hean
from an Englifti port, he would have been
a good prize, as their late orders '""wete to
capture all vessels from th ,fe port/.
Capt. F. left at Hsr-e, the ship Alexan- gath
der Hamilton, of Baltimore—(ln'p Tom, of for 1
Boston—and the snip , of Salem. delii
Daily Can. rn
- ' '-:4 <S • . \
tca > - 1 ...
—; NKW-TIIKAYiI!.
JJ*p 'Mr. Mozdrox's
TI4IS EVENING, March r ,
L ••' ' ,f ptcfenied (no: pecfurincii thcfi-thrt*. \-e»n)
1 cele?)f«ied jVaStSj, Call*!.
h ;;; the ROMAN eathfr;
coil- CR * T!,S CFL ' yE ft-X OF HiS COV M Ti. v •
lul us H*itijiu<, mr Warren—Horstiti,
I tn Nnnrli-—l'a'diasKorat.U!!, mr
.IC a Mlrftai!—-Valerius, mr Pot—— Voifcituu*, mi*
,to Warreil. jun—Vendicius, mr i Warreil—ill .i
---r to l,z * : * r ** *rrcJJ— id Citiccu, mr BiiiTet;— 3 J
Cnijei*. Mr Hm tcr.
Valeria. ro*l»L'Kar»ajje—HorJiio, mrs Merry
(lirinp fcer firii appt-aranca i.l America in tha: c.'.a
ra.^er.)
InAA y. A GRAND OVATION, with the Tri
umph*! V'i&ory
frir.r the Curiatii.
'I he V«cal part* i y Melfr MjrOiall. Dsrlcy,
l "** V/wreU. Jiin. Airs. Warr.li, Mrs. Oldiniio.i, Mil.
4 MiWMjrhc, &c. See.
15 Knd of thr Tra< e<fy,
c to AN OCCASIONAL ADDRESS,
e us W • ll %*kcq ky 1r Wign. Ii
' ® which wii be a*,d. d, a Comrdy, ia two aifls,
(ji«vervfrfoui;-d hre--) cjlltn!,
'?T THE Honest THIEVES ;
Or, FAITHFUL IRISHMEN.
Colovelcar.lel-, n,r U Manly,
®na mr Manfi,l!«.»,!r Story. Mr Fox—JuOic<- Dif
tcly mr Bern»r,i—Ohad.-h, mr Harwnod—BadW,
0111. nirflrs Warn I aim Hunter—Ci.achmsn, mr l.af
fc-ry— («irh- a Song hi character) mr Har
, «inje
a '' t uth, nirs mr... Francis—
'«'-n Mrs Day, mr< Ol.iowxon
the ] icke*s to be !ijji at the of«at places, and 01
rom Mr NforcttM No . jy, South 1-ront-ftrect, oppo
nent y
■ ■s>' Monday, the celebrated Trasedy of
KINO 1 EAR ; wUhranvw F res, tailed the AO-
Uus VKRriSfcMENJ'-, IT. A NEW WAY £<) GET"
'itk M.-RB.II U—;rr tfic3,ncfit at Mr Fcnncix.
irig *»' Hitvtovo' will l*on Wedncf
iry, d3y ,v "
;b,' POST-OFFICE. '
rc«r PhitaJttph'ia, March 30, t7gf?.
and Letters for Uie Bn'tifh Packet for Fit
mouth, will be rcteirodf at tliis OflSrc ; until
40, Tuclday, 3d of April, at 12 o'clock r.oon.
ted N. B. Inland postage mud be paid to
New-York.
ne ' Muslins at Audion.
en ' On TUESDAY MORNING tht ;: ot April, at
II o'clock, will b.' ?t Pcblic Auction,
15 bales of Eafl India Muslins,
iiy the b.ilc, far approved endorsed notes at 60
and 90 days—confining of
: at Bafus
ar- ColTaes
. Gnzzeoas
' Handkerchiefs &c.
' v The whole to drawback.
iy ' FOOTMAN Co. Jua'rs.
i 1 march <l^,
rn ' FOR SALE.
ce > 195 bones white > rj ,
by joy do. brown j
ijth 100 Hides
;u- WKI he landed to morrow, at Willings an I Fran-
I cis's Wharl.from on I oard the brig Aitive, W.jll.
iam William-, mailer.
"d said rigforfale,
,may take in immedi
-1 ' ately after difcharued.
tc, Apply to
Jehn Hollingfwarth & Co.
march 30 j
y<l IntcpreterojForeign Languages*
JOSEPH E U. M. de 1. A GRANJK,
Walnut-Afreet, N». no,
5 1 duly commissioned and fwoim in the a
-20 U bove capacity, offers to trar.ftate tlie French
<j ''"Kliih Spar.iHj. Portugu.itan l Italian I.anjrna
ge* : he flatters himf. Jf t? at his former profeflion
a- a'vc ate both in Frai.ce aud .St.Domingo, has
W!! fisd him to tranll te any Court proceed
ings or othei Jud ciary inltruments.
N. B. Ihe FRENCH CUCUL \TING U.
, BR- contiouts open at the above place. Ma
ch ny viluable additions liaving t-een ru -de to thi»
:fc coijedioa, it ponfidsnow ~f abnut 1500 volum*.
. B the baft adapted to answer the purpose of those
v>'ho wish both to improve iu the La!i k ua'e, and
obtain ufelul initruiftion and plca.'ure.
m 1 m:irch aawim
L h I en Dollars Reward.
1J A BSCONOED from the fubferiber, aiiindotit
-7d B ° r nsmed Utok, about 10
■m 7 » ag *' s . tcet 4or 7 inche ' mails,
thick Ihort hair, speaks remarkably fall Had on
« h n he went away, a fhori corduroy Jacket and
y trowfers, anJ round bat. All p rfons are c --. tion
ifl cii not to credit him on my account, zsl am deter-
mined not to pay ar.y debt of his contraflino-
and all pcrfons are delired not to harbor er em
'• ploy him as they will be profVcuted to the utmost
w rigor of the law. Mailers of veffcls anl other.
)5 are desired not to take him away at their peril
Any person apprehending tht f IM | runaway, and
' lodging him in Jail, so that his mailer may get
bin) again, shall receiv* the above reward, and all
lr realisable charges, by applvin s to
"• JOHN HARPER,
d 167 Arch, or 31 South l'hird-ftreet.
>f marc h 30- 3t
JUST RECEIVED. "*
:> And f.r sale by W.Young, con er of Second
d and Chcfnut-ftreet, M. Carey n8 High- ireel
'» T. Dobfon, 41 South Second fireet and the
!_ Boekfellers generally,
BEACON HILL,
e A Local Potm, historic and dafcriptive »
» By a Lady of Bojlon.
Y analysis or booki.
AlluCon to the surrounding Profp C a_l avocat j eB
. to the River ar-d sylvan Deities—to the Hi.loric
s Mufe—Fiaion discarded -Dedication to Wafb
ingten—The Ailion apemat the B.etr at of the
» Columbians from Bu-.ker's Hill—Genera! Howe
—'The Memory of his Brother—Death o' War
ren— Perfonification of Fcrtune an.-.- Fame—
r Walhiug-on at Mount Vernon—calle-i to the
f chiel Conlmaiid—Formation of tb» Columbian
Camp at Ca-nbri E c—Natural, mora! „r poli.
tical Hirtory of the ftveral States—Their Tom
- ■landing Offi er—Siege 0' Boston— It, S u ff er .
nigs - Wegoti n.on for the fafe Retreat of the
, Britifli Army—lts Departure—Appoinrm nt of
Locgrel- ition of Cha
railer of the Columbian Sohlie— I he Poet's
■ prophetic Apol'rophe to the Frogrefs of Free
t dom throii)'h»ut the World.
march y .
' G INS E NG,
SAMUEL HOWELL,
NO. 54, CHESNUT STREET.
Wants to purchafc good G/.vsf.VG,
. gathered in season, and clear of damage—.
r for which a getrerous price will be given if
delivered any time before rbe 15th of ApriL
m^rchilFor Sale, Oi
By Elliston y John Perot, ;
jV<r 41, Afcrf* Jfttrr tf/n*#, (
London particular Madeira Wine, in pipes *nd
quart r calks, 4 y t ar« old and fit for immediate use. y
Inferior do. a f
A few bales Allihad Cosies
Bandanna Handkerchiefs ,
Sail Canvals, No. i, to q V
A few bags of Juniper 3errie§ j NVI ,
A parcel of s<wl Leather, and
A few boxes of China,
march < an<
ap|
Wanted,
An aflire, cleanly, inoullrious woman to cook
a/id do the business A the kitchen. Such a one
will be allowed good wage*, and no other need ap
ply—Enquire of the Printer.
February 7 __Z
Notice is hereby given,
THAT application will be made for the renewal
of a Certificate of a Share in the Bank of_the
United State,, Handing in the name of the Sublcrl- J
ber, No. 5004, and dated July U,1797- thefama the
hngraham .
march 5 —. —. —— P r j
TO~let7 " u a '
And may be entered on inmediately, teE
A good dry Store, {>c
Three (lories high, and in an excellent stand for
bofiaefs. Apply to _ A 1 i,
Thomas £3" J»jhua Fiber, ''
marchx. S No. 5. Pock-Hreefa P.
Wanted to live in the Country, fin
About five miles from this city, a sober ftea- F
day Man who underftaods gardening and the Y
management of a few acres of land, and would
not objedl to attend a couple of hnrles. Such
a one m>y meet With liberal wages by applying J!
at tie office of this Gazette. . , » P al
6 N. B. None need apply but tbcfe ot uocx- )ea
cCptienable c'riara&ef*. ni-j
March 13. oil
Custom House, m
DiftriO of Pennsylvania, March 6M, 1797.
T , HE MERCHANTS of PHILADELPHIA, 70
who may have any account or knowledge of no
the capture or detention of »ny Ibip or veflel, ear- w
go, or ptber property, belonging to cu.aens of the ; col
United Btate>, refuting within this diftriA, by or j (id
t under the ati;horit> of foreign nations, since the ( tl.s
Brtt day of CdloV i-, 179*. ?re particularly requef- dy
ted togive in information thereof, to the Collec the
ter of the Port of Philadelphia, as soon as may ret
be convenient ; the name of the vessel, ) Mi
the captain*!* name, the number oi tons, the clti- !
mated value of the vessel, if condemned, the etti- Ne
mate 1 value of her cargo, or other property, whi- Ha
ther carried, and by. or under the authority ot tin
what nation captured, with such observations as
n.ay be thought necessary upon the circu,stances
of each in order that ftatemrnts thereof may
be t; nfiniued to the Secretaiy of the I'reafury,
who is required to lay the fame before th* Senate XI
and Houlc at Representatives of the United States.
;• 115 -
W A N T t D,
A Qardtnet —a Single Man.
None need ?ppiy, unless he can bring good re- g
commendations.
Fnquire at No. Market-flreet.
rears!*. I"- T
FOR SALE, 1
By WHARTON fc? LEWIS, T
No Jls Sooth Front Street.
A quantity of Taunt r*i Oil,
4th proof Jama'.Cßßum, "> entitled to
x!t apj id proof Brandy, J drawbask. _
Madera Wire, J
Junirer Berries, &e. Ice.
yeb. 0. "" faf
Valuable Property for Sale.
FOU SALE,
THAT well knewn Estate, called SHREWS- F
BURY FARM, formerly "the reftdence of
General John Cadwalader, situate on Saffafias Ri
ver, in Kent county, Maryland—containing a
bout 1900 acres of prime LAND, upwards of 500
ef which are in woods. The BuildiHgs are all er- P
cellent, and consist of a handsome Dwelling House, n
two large Barns wirhCow hou f es. Stables for fifty
horses, a spacious treading floor under cover, a
granary, two Overfeer'i houses, two ran
ges of two flory buildings for Negroes (one ef
them new and of brick)", Corn houses, a Smoak
house , &c. See.—The whole Estate being nearly
surrounded by water, i< requires but little fencing,
and has a good Shad and Herring Sflx-iy. It is
conveniently situated for both the Philadelphia and 1
Baltimore markets, with two landings on a navi- <
gable river but a ftiort fail from Baltimore. There t
is a Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on '
the p: emifes; also, a variety of excellent fruits of I
different kind.. The foil is msjily a rich loom.— 1
The whole will be fold together, or divided into <
(mailer farms (for whicb the'buHdings are conven- 1
iently situated) as may suit the putchafer. The '
Stock on said Farm, conf:f!ing ol' Horses, Cattle,
Sheep, &c. will also bedifpofedof.——For further
p-aiticulars apply to Gtonoi Hastings, on the
prtmifes, or in the fubferiber, in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jwn.
February 34- iaw6w
Bafkenridge—for sale
IT conCUs cf 920 acres, «Imoft all of which ie
a fisie rich Meadow, (the reftdence of the late
Earl of Stirling). It may be conveniently dixidt d
into five farms, four of which are bounded on the
East by the river Pr.ftiek.
Th-r" are on it a number of buildings, forming
afq iare of nearly three acres—l he dwelling house
is a vjry convenient one and a fmallexpencc would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard conuflsof Ijoc finsbeanng engraf
«d Apple Trees—and there is on other pv. taof said
trafl near 300 other Apple frees—alfo a great
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
bed and aioft delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
Forest Treos, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence <>f the place. ItsGtuation is abeut 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Mor: is-Town, and li from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in call, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire ot T. McEUF-N 5c Co.
No. 78, Chcfnut treet.
February I. aoritf
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the 10th
iuft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Severn Do>Urs> at Va, BLACKBURN'S Lottery
and Broker. Ollice, No. 64, South Second-street
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
DolUri. where rheck books are kept lor render
ing and examining in these, the C-ity ol Washing
ton. No. It.and Paturfbn Lotteries, and informa
tion wh<re tickets may I e had in molVof the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N.B. The bmf.nefsof a Bbokfr. inbnyirgand
Tiling all kinds of Public Sto-.k and Securities,
difeo*Rt'.rg Bills and Notes of Hand, Ode of
Lands, Houses, &e. itc. will be duly attended to,
by NVta. BLACKBURN.
November 15. §
I
On Tuesday, the 10th day of
April next, at 7 o'clock in the evemng. at
the City Tavern, Second Street, in the City
of Philadelphia, , J
-* X7"ILL be expofetl t« pubbc fate, feveiue«»
VV tiaa» or parcels of land situated in Point
to« n<bi P in the ecu aty of Northumberland .and
conta:uin» in the wh le fixtnou&nd f.ven . . b{ _
dred and ft*ty-four acres and three quarters,
with the ufuai allowance for roans.
Terms of sale, i-j ofthe purchase m.ney on •
the execution of the deed, t-.? in three mo.th», '
and i-i in fix months, in go*d notes or other
approved fecaritv l'u
CONNELLY & Co. Aud.
March ». lawtia duca so
PROPOSAL, pe
Ftr Puhlijbing by Subscription,
E N QJJ I R Y ; e °
INTO THI H
'ORIGIi■ OF EPIDEMIC DISEASES. Al
THE Letters to Dr. Currie, which I puiiliflied —;
last autumn, led me co an investigation ot
the origin and phesomena of peftilsntial difealcs
in other countries, as well as in the United St res. rn
In the prof' cutioi* of the fubje&, new facts and J
principles continually opened to my view "nd n cc |
nally dettrmined me to trace back the In it or y ol y;
such diseases as far as the records of history ex
tend. For this pnrpofe, I have examined the pub- cq
lie libraries in New-York, New-Haven, Cam-
bridge and Boston, with a view to obtain all t.-.e b "
material fails which can illuflrate the fubjstft.ar.d
I have nearly colle<Sled all the material, for the
propofsd work.
The fatfts eelbcleJ will enable me to demon- P
ftrate that many of the common ideas refpeding; m
pcflilential epidemics, are untoundeu or extreme
ly incorrea ; and this in conference of medical pr
writers cenfidering an epidemic difeale as a detach- an
ed or isolated phenomenon in a particular coun
try ; rather than as conne£led With other epide- vV
D>ics or other phenomena of nature in various th
parts ofthe world. The fails I have collc&ed
lead to certain deductions which are surprising to
mylblt, arid which will probably be new to many
others. Much light will b« thrown on this dark
and perplexing fubjedl, as well as on natural phi
losophy.
The proposed woik will make a full sized oifa- m
, vo volume ; and exccutca well on fine paper, can- j
' not be afforded at lets than two dollars, bound, R
w'th the usual allowance to book-ftllrr?. Ae the E(
: ' compdstion will ewfl n«t on!ygreat labßr,but con
! fidnrable expel)cc, no more copies * i;l ke printed
" than to supply fubferibers. The'book will be rea
-• dy for fubferibers early in the coming summer, and pc
I the holdeis of proposals. will be good enough to g,
return them to No. 40, Pine-flreet, by the firft of
. ] May. m
Subscriptions received by the book-fellers in %
New-York, Philadelphia, Albany, New-Haven,
Hartforij, New London, Providence, Boston, Bal
timore and Charlefto»
NOAH WEBSTER, JUM.
march aB. cc
, ~AT~ LAST. $
This Day u Publiftied, by William f e
Cobbett, ol
OPPOSITE CHRIST CHURCH, W
The Democratic Judge^
OR THE
' EQUAL LIBERTY of the PRESS, }
As exhibited, explained and exposed, ifi the
prosecution of
' WILLIAM COBBETT, ,
FOR A PRETENDED MBIL AGATKST
The Kins ef Stain and hit Embaffador, before -
'THOMAS M'KEAN, ®
Chief Juflice of the State of Pennfylvaaia.
By Ptier Pareufiine. 1 ■ ■
JuJ received, and for Sale at theßociJhre of j
WILLIAM YOUNG;
No. South Second fttect.
A COMPLETE HISrORY OF
CONNECTICUT,
CIVIL AND ECCLESIASTICAL, £
j. From the emigration ct it' 4rft planters fromßn- (
,f gfai d in to 1713- I
i. By BENJAMIN TRUMBULL, o »; 1
J. VOLUME I.
jo Embellilhed with a correit Map of the State, and
t . Portraits of feme of the firft settlers, from origi- ;
e nal paintings. <
ty match 15. *eo^w
1- Law Book Store, i
" f No. 319, High-street.
George Davis, !
ig, TMPRESSEB with the favors lbewn>4iim in his
is i efforts toeftablilh a Store for the sale of Law
nd Book- only, begs leave to inform the Gentlemen
vi- of the Bar generally throughout the United States,
:re that in addition to his collcitiof now on hand,
on which he supposes to be more txtenfive, than in
of the poffeflion of any one person for sale in Ameri
— ca, he expe&s daily very large supplies from Los
lto don & DuV lin, particularly tijom the lattet place,
:n- having chiefly cenfinedhisimportations to those edi
'he tions, a- beingin his opinion equally correil with
tie, the London -opies, and well known to ke infinite
tor ly lower charged. 1
the G. D limiting himfe'.f, solely to the sale of Law
1 Books, it will appear obvious to profeffional gen-
I, tlemer tke great advantages they havein purchasing
T from him, hcth as to feledlion and price, of which
the encouragement ke has received for i'eversl yeirs
part, is the bell tertimony he can offer.
»r arch 10. 3aw3w
J' FORSALETat
led Wm. Young's Book Store,
the No. 51, Second flreet, the corner of Chefnut street.
REPORT of the Committee of the House of
Representatives of the United States, appoint
ufe ed to prepare and report rticles of Impeachment
uld againtl Vf ILI>I 4.M BLOUNT, a Senator of thi
United States, impeached of high crimes and mif
raf- demeanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of
aid the House of Representatives, authorizing the said
cat Committee tpfit during the recefn of Congress, and
the ir.ftrnfling thesa "to enquire, and, by all lawful
" means, to difcovor the whole nature and extent
md " of the offenc-j whereof the laid William Blount
:ni- " (lands impeaefcej, and who are the parties and
iles " affociatestherein."
do. Printed by order of the Hutfe of Representatives
—lt December 30 £
ce Prilun Manufactory.
cn " FOR SALE,
At the Prison of the City ;x<i Countv of Philidel
eet" rhia,
- Cut Nails of all sizes, from 3dy to lody
T Flooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle md card Tacks
* Oakum and chipped Logwood
otli Shncmakeii anl Sadiers Thread
.at Also Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
cry tomb and be j nones, hearths, chimney pieces,
t— platlorms ilabs, facia, window heads lills, c .
Ten All v.'bifh rftav he had on reasonable terms,
er- Shoes made and Weaving dor.e at said Priion at
ng- a moderate price.
na- Orders from a diilance, directed to Daniel Tho
tte- ma«, agent for the psifoH, will be attended to.
the December 16 mtb6n
md : _ FOR SALE > 7
its, Several Fonts of Types—half worn.
of Includirg Long Primer, about 400 weight, in
to, good copdition, and would ai fwer the purpsfe of
a country Ptirter ai well as new.
Enquire sf th» Printer.
" *
City Commi(doner's O-jiice, 1
January \Mh, I *<)?•
raR THI OF THE CITIZEN*.
npHF. following arrangement is made by tne
1 fold commissioners, for cieuafirg tne nj
DiidA No. J. —rrom the north fide o. Vir:e „
(irm, to' thefoutfc fide ot MulUrry street; W tl
be under the fuperintendance of NichoUs Ricfa, si :
i From the south fide of Malbrry street, to t(
the south fide of Ckefuut ftrreet, to be under the
feperintencUmc of William Moulder. -F
V From the south fide of Chelnut street to wit
the north fideofSprug: street, to be under the
fuperi)itendance of Joseph Claypeoe. Ani
4. From the north fide of Spruce street, to the An;
south tide of Cedar street, to be under the iu- a
penntendance of Hugh Roberts. , ,
s*f When pumps f-re out of order south ot
Hith-keet, pleafeapply to Thonm Dixey. atthe
comer of South and Kfth-fireets, ar Codfrey Geb
ley, in n?ar .'hefnut-ftreet 5 and north of
Hi 'h f red, to Dijcy and Dehaven. i» f-affattas- Ah;
ftrctt. lx-r-A''gi'n Sixth and Seventh-fl recta. (
Hotlfe and Loti t in Bsrdcniown. An;
TO BE SOLD, a handsome two story House,
with the Lot on which ii is eredUd, fituat- ( j
ed about the middle of the beautiful and healthy y
Village of Bordentpwn. The hoHfe is forty
two feet in fronr, and in neat order. The lot
cqntaine one acre, and ic one hundred feet on
the iriain street, and extends with the fame
breadth to back street. Also, * large Lot, eon fl
taining nearly four acres, feparatcd from the
former by bsck street. One third only of the
purchase money will be required upon execut
ing a deed, and for the remainder, luch credit
Will be given as the purchifer may chufe. This
property will be fold free of all incumbrances,
and an indisputable title given.
For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnes, rcfiding in Bordeutown, near f
the prtuiifes, who will shew the fame, or of ,
PETER THOMSON, An n
Conveyancer, No 43, Mulbarry-ftreet. (
December 2. 3 a 'vtf (|
Bolton Glass Manufactory. j
THF. citizens of the United State* are hereby *
informed, that the nv.mifiiture of Window
• (rials is now commenced at the Ghifs
: Eoflon.
' Itisneedlefs to fay anything of the excellent
' qualify of the Eofl»r Glaf% as it is so well known '
; throughout the ULited States to be in every res- I
' j pcift greatly superior to any ever imported from '
' £urope- '
1 It will be cet to any f;ze commoßly used ; and An
may be constantly had by applying to Cbatht P. 1
1 Kupfer, at theGlaf' House. i
> Orders from the diflant States to be addressed to 1
' Mr. Samuel Gore, Court-ftrset, Boston. t
£j- Two or threi good Glass makers ate want
ed at the above works ; such as can produce re
commendations for good behavior, maybe sure of
employ, by application to Mr. George L. Limit, at
the- works. Men without families u ill be pre
-1 ferred. However unacquainted with the method f
of r.jaking Crown Window Glass, they will meet
with the fame encouragement.
Lofton, January t6 . a - —iaw6w
New-Tori, February, 1798. An
/>iJOi'aS^/,SBYGEORGEFORMAN,
• FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPT lON,
A New and Valoable Work, which has been ex
tant only iix months—entitled Ar
PROOFSof aCONvSPIRACYagainft
all the Religions an : Governments of EU
ROPE, carried on in the secret meetings of Free
Masons, llluminati, and Reading Societies. Col
le&ed fron; good authoritie
i By JOHN ROBfSOH, nr. As
■j Prtf'-Jjtr of Natural Pbikfofby, and Secretary to the
Royal Soeiety of Edinburgh.
Nam tua res agitur faries cam proximus urdet.
THIS work will be put to press as soon as
400 fuifcribers are obtained,and no money requir
ed until the work is cempleted.—lt Ihall be print
i" ed with an elegant new type, and en paper of fu- 0 f
perior quality, which will comprise about 400 p CI
pages neat oilavo, handsomely bound and lettered t h ;
—the price will be one dollar and fifty cents,
id Those who procure H fubferibers, and become
;i* accountable, Ihall have a 13th gratis—and the un , ;
fual allowance to bookfelleri. mi
flu
•„* Tbe above work comes from the pen of J. ta :
Robifon, of Edinborough, a gentleman in high or
eftimatics ia the literary world—the fadb therein
recorded are well fufcftantiate.i, and thereafoning
and arguments thence deduced, while they difco
lis vcr the found judgment and penetration of the I
iw writer, are calculated to amuse as well a* to in- _
en flruit. A fccne of villainy is developed by the
es, author fufficient to appal the stoutest heart.—The
id, danger to be apprehended from secret focietins is ,
iti clearly pointed out ; the degeneracy of human aa- 1
ri- ture awfully illuftratad, and the hazard of every L
)B- deviation Irom tho straight path of religion and ct
ce, of virtue, incontcllibly proved both to the politi- pi
di- tian and the christian by ftubbom ahd incontro- t c
ith vertalde '
xe " tit Subfcriftiom taken in by G. Forman, ffc. 46, 1
William- t (lreet, opposite tbe PjJl-OjJice, and by the refpec
aw tine bookfeelleri in. New-York and Philadelphia.
en- February jB.
:n £ New-York, January 1798
PROPOSALS
By Arondt \&an Hook,
Proprietor of the Reading Room j
For Publishing by Subscription,
An Appeal to Impartial Posterity, c
eet. By Madame Roland ;
-of Wife of (he Minister of the Interior in France. /
im - CONDITIONS.
ent These scarce and very valuable Historical Me
moirs, (which ran through two London edi
n;f" tionsin a few months,) will be cortiprifed in a
vols. o(9avo, oi 400 pages each.
a"r'l 'II be printed on fine paper and a new
Irful *' r P e ' delivered to Subfcrihers, neatly bound
~ nt and letteied.at 1 dollar and jo cents per vol- I
unt un ] e ' --orle third of the Subscription money tabe
and P a nn , l e 'i v ery of the firft volume—the re
mainder when the work iscornpleat. t
vel To Frinters, Booksellers, and others, who
acquire Subfcript:ons, the usual allowance will
be made.
Subscriptions are taken at the Reading- j
Room, No. 149, Water street—the Printing- I
del- °fl~ lce > T f9, Pearl-flreet—and at the different 1
Brfafcftwts m NewYcrk- AHo, by William t
YSuttgj corner.-f Second and Chefnut fireet, and f
the Editor of the Gazette of the United States, -
Philadelphia, J
As f ion as a fufljeient number of Subscribers
ile% are "Stained, the work will be put to press, ajid
ces, compleated with the utmost dispatch.
c. Fsb. ao. eod2m
' at For Sale, |
'ho- A good situation for a Country Seat, 1
fOK. 1 Y acres of land on the Old' York Road, I
„ within fight of Germantown and about five miles I
from the City, the whole being under ge»d fence, i
and in eacellent order as pasture ground. 1
*n. For further information and terms, apply to
,in Jonn Elliotr Crksson, at his office for the '
eof sale of Heal Estates, Conveyancing, &c. No. 54 , 1
High-Are rt. W
ad mo. 16th. aawaw
treasury department,
MARCH j, 1798,
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, j
««i n,,„„ o. r the Ad of Cengrefs pafTcd on the futth day of July one thousand seven hundreiand'
P Ur ~, . t i t led "An Ail laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper , and the
AA C 7*ffedonthe fifteenth day of December, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-fevea, Mtitlrf
" An \ r O polpene for a limited time the commencement of the duties imposed by the \A enti.
tied "An Afl laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper , that from and after th,
firft 'ay of July enfaing, the several Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and colU c .
ted throughout the United Statas. <
F everv skin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or (heet or piece of Paper, upon which Ihall be
• written or printed any or either of the instruments or writings r olio wing—to wit :
i„. Certificate of Naturalization, - ' - S
Anv Licence to praaice.or Certificate of the admiflion,enrolment er regiftrv of
any Councilor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Protfar, in any Court of the
f that a Certificate in anv one of the C«urt» of the United States
: for one of the said Office?, thall'fo far as tc the payment of the
<)«[/aforesaid, be a fufficient admiffiTn in all the Coimi of the United
f States, for each and every of tiiefaid offices.
" Any Grant ct Letters Patent, under the seal or authority nl the United States
(except for lands granted for military Cervices) - - 4
Anv exemplification or certified copy of any fych grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military services) ... a
Any Charter-Party, Bottomry, or Rcfpondentia Bond, - - I
Anv Receipt or discharge for or on accountof any Legacy left by any Will or a
titer tettamentary instrument, or for any share or part of a personal estate di
vided by forceofafly statute of diftrfbuti«ns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Gra»d Childreu of the per/on deacafed, the amount whereofffiall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and Ihall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, - • ~" * „ . * .. 25
When the,amount thereof (hall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollar* and
Ihall not exceed five hundred dollars, - - " J°
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional sum of t
A*y Policy of Insurance or instrument in nature thereof, on any ffiip, vefTel or
eoods insured from one diftri<3 to another in the United States, 2J
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for wmch
Insurance is made Ihall not exceed five hundred dollars, - 50
When the sum insured Ihall exceed five hundred dollars, - 1
Ar-v Exemplification, of whit nature soever, that ihall pass the feall of any
Court, other than such as it maybe the duty of the Clerk of .uch Court to
fun ifh for the ufeof the United States or some particular state, - 50
Any Jiond, bill single or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, prom.flbry
note or other note, other than any recognizance, hill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or with the United States or any Kate, or for their
life refpe&ively, - - * " "
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollsrs, - ro
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred .lobars, 25
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand doliars, 5a
' And if above thotifand dollars, - ' " 75
Pr»v''deJ, that il any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within sixty days,
J fueh bonds or notes Ihall be fubjea to only two fifth parts ot ihc duty
t aforefaid —viz. - -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, 4
Jf above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollai s, Io
j If above fiv« hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 10 j
If above one thousand dollars, - • " ' 30
i Any Notes iffiied bv tl.ebanks now eftiblifhed, or that may hereafter be fftab
r, lifted within the' United States, other than the nonj of luch ot the said Banks
as (hall agree tv> an annual composition, o' one per centum on the annual oi
o vidends made by such to their Stockholders relpeflively, according to
the following scale. -
> On all notes not exceedi-g fifty dollars, for each dollar, - - ♦
On all notes abovo fifty c'oliars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, 50
if Cn all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
11 dollars, - - ... I
On all notes above five hnndred dollars, ' * a
4 Protest or other Notarial ail, .... 25
:t Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfioa.or to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
_ performed In the late war, - 15
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for left than
five hundred dollars, - - • 1
' For five hu»dred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, 2
c _ For more than two thousand dollars, ... 3
Any n<«e or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
n. If from one diftri<st to another diftriisi of the United States, not being in the
fame State, .... to
If from the United States to any foreign port or place, - - 2s
; . e Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effetf s, made in any
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
rent or raxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal proceft by any officer,) 50
jv- Any CertificateoF» SFafe in any Inleirsoee Company, of affiare in theUanK ori jra
the United Jtatrs, or of any State or other Bank,
If above twenty dollars and Rot exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hondred dollars, ...
IS If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten tents for one hundred dollars.
IL
The duties aforelaid will be colle&ed and received by the Supervisors, Infne&ors aud other Officers
- of Infpeition, in the several Diftriils, Snrveyo and Divisions of the United states, and by such other
0 persons as Ihall from to time ba specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diltridts for
that purpose.
111.
e The Supervisors of the fevfral Diflriifts will, prior to tie firft day of July ensuing, and as soon as
a ~ n'ay he praihcahle, markorilamp, without fee ot reward, any quantities or parcels of Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with r.ny of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of the said duties; Or
flamped vellum, parchment and paper n.ay at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob-
J- tained at the rates prescribed by law, by application to any Supervilor, Infpedor, Officer of lnfpedion,
h or other porfoa appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diflricls.
in GIF EN under my Hjud, at Philadelphia
!g - the day and year sbovmenthnei.
"OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secretary of tbe Treasury.
ivxaiv. u 1 \J»
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands against
ths estate of Willam Flsewtood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadeijifcia, merchant, de '
ceased, are requcfted to exhibit their accounts, '
j properly attested ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate (
pay:n<;«l, to
■ ii.-gfcEßS&l**** :
January 4. dtf
Just Published,
And to he had at the Bcok-ftores of Messrs. Bob
son, Campbell, Youno and Ormkod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Causes and Cure of Remitting »r Bilious
' Fevers.
/ To which is annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opnions and practice of
difPrer.t authors : and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting inUrefting fa&s and reflections relative to
the Synoclui IBcroidtt, or Yellow Fever, which
2 his occaftoned fa much distress and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the seaport
v towns of the United States of America.
i by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felow of the Philadelphia College of l'hyficlant,
e and Member of the American Phi loiopliicJ So
ciety. Feb. I—*3m§
For sale or to be let on ground
!! rent,
A -valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut 2nd Fu'th fireets, fronting the State
it House fqiiare This lot is fifty-one feet fi»nt
n on Walnut street, and one huudre<i and thirteen
d feet and an halftm Fifth i'.rict ; there are at
''> prcfent two small two fiory brifc'k Hollfes, and a
number of small tirtentints thereon.
r - s Also, for ft.' V,
d Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient Sores, wharf, art, fi.uateon
Water ftre.-t, between Mulberry and Safiafras
Street?, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninc;y-five feet, then widening to the
otnh thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
:s have the convenience of a publx alley adiain
e, <ln the Hfjrth fide, and area very deCrablefit
ua'tien sot a a nierrhar.t, Cam-factor, W others
0 who may hsve cccafi®n for ftor«igc of goods.
Ie This property will be fo'd on very reafcnible
4, icrros for c<ih. tor further information asply
toHfii printer. '
->'■ mSwtf
Secretary oj toe lrt&jury
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, proposing to contrast hit bufi
ncfs, offers this EAste for fair, flu --"V-v
terms. On it are one Blast and thre.
a complt'e Boreing Machine, and a v 1
Mill, with two pair of stones; also a
in patfctt repair, as are all the Water V .
ed with these virions branches. Th '
were lately built for the purpose of t f
for this arc afaotii tw<r jui..™ mo
ol Land, one half of which isund-i w
very fine arable Land, producing the !>• '
Failure, The Cannon lately mannl
fully proves the excellency of the n
superior to any in this country, and c
to any in the world ; for not one of I
lately made, although some of the a
int» 32 pounders, ha»e failed on provi
ation is very eligible, particularly for
. manufafture, aid a place of arms Ivii
of Connecticut. and only 30 miles fror
iiigs on the Hudson's river, and having
r tage that can rcfult from a plenty of «
from a large 'natural pond, very near tne Furnice,
and which may be converted into a variety, of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can beaccommodit
ed with all the stock and otenfils, and hav« poHelu°a
• on «r before the firtt of June next, and prepannon
may be made in the mean lime for goinginto
mediately thereafter, for e»er> pait will be deliverta
in good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. Ac. f
terms, apmlv to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Phrlade.-
! phia; David Brooks, E<q. one of the ReprefentaßvH
in Congress lor this Stale; Mr, Davidl Waterman, on
thepremafes, or to the proprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSOtf.
Dee. .. 3» wtf
~ A 0 T 1 C E.
A Manufactory of yellow and delft wart.
Such as never was in this Country bef<M has been
, hcen lately erefled at Tivorli, Red Hook °'' °1
oh the Eafl Bank of Hudson's A»>< f «J
„ York, where any article of various (oris and F
may be executed, as well as earthen* ftovei» .p _
new con ft ruCtion, that saves three foutt so
coronaonly uled in cast iron (loves or open c v
they aiebeftdes very wholesome and ornamci >
! applyin£l,> * J. MOUCHET,
Warned a (killful hand to attend to theb»kio?»»
glaring part of the said ware. Generous apfPW
mtnts will be given. Aop'.y '"bove-or 10
DAVID BROOKS, Eiq.
3 No. 71 South sth Stree'.
! Feb. ic.
3 to Hire,
A Largo and convenient HOUSE, in or nc
the centre of the city—for wh*h a
y rent willbegiven; to be taken lor a T e * r '
more for a ! anger term. Inquire of the 1
cm. 17.