—» w *
■ 3J J. _ f * 1 * J, \ ***". ' ' "* ~»
(gazette ot ¥ H lUtrt States, AND Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
By John Fen no, N°' ii 9 Chefnut Street. -
Number 1774. J
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Monday, May 7. .
MR. THATCHER a memori
al from Buxton, in the state of Malfa
chuletti, lamenting the dangers which threa
ten the cuiuntry from the arming of merchants
veliels, deprecating a war with any Nation,
particularly againlt a Nation who formerly'
contributed her affiltaiwe to preiierve thft
tountry from ruin, and praying that means
)nay be used to restore that confidence and
friendlhip which has beea so. unhappily im
paired betwixt this cottntry and the trench
Republic.
Mr. Va&sCM prefenteda memorial to the
iameeffect, from Falmouth, Maflachufetts.
Mr. New laid before the house some reso
lutions entered into by the freeholders ot
Middlesex county, to the fame purpole.
Mr. U\ vis laid the following,refolutien
upon the üble :
41 Rfilved, that the numltfr of troops in thefrwice oftbe
Unit.J States on tl}i Afi;itury Ejtablijbmenty be so in
crtafeil, that (inctaJing tbe troops now in uiiuaL ftnvic*,
the regiment of Artillcrijis and Engineers, to be raised un
der an a 8 cf Congress, jhtjfcd tbe present fefftonj Jball I
amount to tOfiOO •fillers, itvn-eommijjioned officers and
privates tncl-Jive."
Mi. Macon from the committee of revifal
and unfiiulhed business, made a report on the
petition of Wm, Simmons, Accountant of the
V/ar Department, which was committed.
Mr. Pincknev said, he rose to request
leave 10 withdraw the lefolution which had
yefteruay been laid upon the table by his col
league (Mr. his knowledge,
relpecting a bulinets which had already been
decided relative to huuielf, as it was founded
upon a ground which was at least doubtful,
and he thought 6ot of order.
The Speaker ■fmtrmpTca Wi.K to fay
that he tfould lave himfelt' the twuW( Us
any farther observations, by faying that he
deemed the lnoiiou out ef order.
Mr. PINCKNfiY hoped, notwithstanding,
he should be permitted to make a few remarks
011 the fubjedt.
The Speaker replied, that any remarks
npon a buliuefs already decided would not be
in order, and could not be admitted without
general content. A pretty general cry of
1 hope the tientleman -will be permuted to proceed,
being'heard, Mr. Pinckney went on.
He said, it was with reluctance he took up
the time of the house a moment in a matter re
lating to himfelf, particularly at present, when
so much important business prelfed for consi
deration ; but he wished to state his reasons
for wishing this motion to be withdrawn, left
it should teem to have been brought forward
by his cbnfent. He was grateful tor the good
intentions of his colleague, because he doubt
less thought the vote which had pafled on the
preceding day might cast some imputation
upon his (Mr. Ps) character But he also
withed it to be wtt%irawn, because it was
founded on at lealt a doubtful l'uggeltion, viz.
that it is not customary foe the United States
to make presents to Foreign Muiitteia leaving
this country. He believed it was customary to
do so. But another reason for wishing it to be
withdeawn was, that the difcuflion of it might
not subject him to a species of trial as to his
public conduct, in which he should not beat
liberty to make his defence. He would never
lhrink from any authorised invefligation ot his
conduct ; but he should wifli to avoid any
unauthorifsd proceeding of that kind.
But his principal reason for troubling the
house was to allignhis reasons for addreflinga
letter to Congress on this fubjeit, apparently
offo trifling anature.With respeCt to the pre
lent offered to him by the Court of Spain, it
would I*ve been impropet for him, under any
construction ot the conllitution, to have re
ceived it, as lie was at that time also M nifter
to Great Britain. Upon this ground it was
tharfie wrote to the bpanifh Mimfter declin
ing the acceptance of the prefisnt offered to
him from that Court, except he should ob
tain leave of Congress to do so. 1 his being
the cafe, whatever might have been the pro.
priety of accepting ol the present offered to
him by the Court of Great Britain, there
would have been at least an appearance of in
consistency to have teceived a present from
one Court, and not from the other. He there
fore gave the iaine anfw ertoboth.
This he hoped would account falisfadtorily
for havwig troubled Congress with any appli
cation on tins subject. It was from a respect
which he tiioiight due to the court ot Spain,
from the favourable treatment lie had receiv
ed from them, anil being fully fatisfied with
all their conduct towards him, that he thought
it proper ta make the application. The other
refpectmgGreat-Britain was involved with it.
Mr. P. laid he did apprehend there would
have T>een a propriety in house, at
the time they rejected the fent
from the Senate, to have ailigned a reason
why tliev did so. He would fay why he
thought 10. He thought the Conflitution ex
pressly allows, that, in some cases, presents
may b; received from a Foreign Power, but
that the power of deciding upon this (hall be
left in,the hands ot the legislature, as a check
upon officers that they may not improperly
receive any prefent,from a Foreign Power.
But considering this power to have been in
tended asa check upon the improper conduct
of officers, it must strike the minds of the
public when they are told that an officer was
se r ufed this privilege, that he had not d>>:ie
his duty (especially if the refufal was unqua
lified, and unaccompanied witliany reason for
the refttlal) and that the refufal was intended
as a censure upon his coiidurt.
It was in this point of view, that he con
ceived tii« conduct of the person to whom
this privilege was refufed, was implicated,
without an opportunity of being heard in his
defence. He lhould be far from wishing any
resolution to be enteftd into approving of his
conduit ; but there was a great diltindion
betwixt approving and disapproving—betwixt
censure and applause ; and although he did.
notdefire applause, he could have wilhed to
have avnidedcenfore. All that he wished had
been doe was, tnat th* haufe should have
dated something of this kind, " deeming it
improper that t.ie Diplomatic Agents of the
United Sta'ei should receive a present from
any Foreign Prince or State, the request can
not be complied with a*, without this, th;
natural inference must be, th.it there has been
fjme mifhehaviour in the officer, or the ufuai
privilege would not have been refufinl. He
called it tifual, because wherever it had here
tofore been applied for, it had been iuvjria-
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, MAT 18, 1798.
bly granted, and the rejection of the resolu
tion from the Senate, must, therefore, be <
looked upon as eftablifhingan imputation up- t
onJii»chara6ter. It was laying to tlio world, i
" Every other person in afimilar filiation, I
has been permitted to accept us these prefents,'t
but you, and you alone, are an exception you i
cannot receive them." Such a perflni may I
have been worthy of cofldenwaMon ; J* may i
have bstrayed the ititerefts of hi* coSfttry ; i
but it was inju(iice to that per&n to condemn i
him without a trial. <
Mr. P. laid, he thought it aeceffary,' in jus- '
tice to himfelf, to make tilth; obfervafions I
before the houfo, from* regard which he felt
in common with other'gentlemen, for his re- <
putation—more particularly at tikis matter
would appear upon the J ournajs of the house, i
and might not only reftefct upon himfelf, but :
upon his children atter him ; they might be
pointed at by the Finger of Scorn, as the off
fpringof a matt who had betrayed theinterelts
of his country. It was under the impreflion
of these ideas that he had been led to trouble
the house, and he trusted he should stand ex
cused for having done so.
Mr. M'Dowell rose, but was prevented
from speaking by the Speaker, who declared
1 that nothing more rottkl be admitted on a sub
' jeet which was not before the house.
: Mr. Harper rose. H» was also checked
1 by the Speaker, but not before he had de
clared he brought forward the motion in guef
tion without the knowledge of his colleague.
Mr. W. C. ClahSornk called up the re
lolution which he yesterday laid upon the ta,- '
ble, relative to the irregularity of the poll iii :
the Western country, which was agreed to.
The house then proceeded to the order of
the day, when the Speaker having ItatM
1 the question to be to. strike out the word an
nually in the firft resolution,
Mr. Dwioht Foster rose and observed,
' that for a juftification of hitnfelf to thole who
knew him, he need not decTate tliat the »>K>-
. tion which had caused so "ij
ma 3? wuti 11 nor
designed to einbarrafs th*metffiirtf*b£govern
ment, or with a view to prevent * provision
of revenues adequate to the prefent-w proba
' ble future exigencies—or fromany reluctance
on his part to concur in every measure requi
' site for an effeitual defence ofour country. —
To the uniform tenor of his conduit, on all
occasions, since he had the honor of a feat in
1 this house he wouldchearfully appeal. Those
' with whom he aflbciated knew, that nothing
was more clear to his heart than the honor,
1 the dignity, the liberty and independence of
his country. He. did not, therefore, confi
-1 der many of the remarks which had been
made on this fubje6t as applicable to himfelf,
' nor should he take any measures whatever to
• rfpel them. If his friends intended he should
1 make a personal application, their object was
' loft. Alike indifferent tocenfure asapplaufe,
when unmerited, he had ever done, and as
: far as he could be informed, he would conti
-1 nue to do, what at the time appeared to be
' his duty.
» He was as deeply impressed as any gentle
man of this house .could be, with a sense of
> the necessity and importance of fufficient and
I productive fourcss of revenue. Measures
' for defence must be expensive—without the
: means to carry thein into effeit, allouratts
t and resolutions are vain and futile.
5 Protection to our commerce, defence to
( our frontiers and fea-coafls, security to our
r rights as a nation,-entfrg/'and respeCtability
s to the operations of government, are not to
•' be obtained without money, and if the pre
sent revenues are not fuftfeient, more must
" undoubtedly be provided.
1 Mr. F. further observed, that he had ever
1 entertained a hope that unless in cafe of an
- aitual invasion, the affelTment of a land tax,
t for the lupport of the measures of thisgo
i vemment, might be avoided. That is the
- unlv remaining refoufcv of some of the state
r governments —the one to which he belonged
s could resort to no other tor the payment of
- its civil lift, and to discharge a considerable
J debt which it has contracted, and which has
- not been provided for by the general govern-
S ment. Still, however, if the circumstances
• of our country are luch as to require a tempo
» ry lup ply from ,t hat quarter, the people will
e not object againlta payment —They will sub
- mit to the inconvenienee with chearfulnefs,
ii so long as it (hall be found to be necessary
- but they will not feel fatisfied to fee a perma
nent land tax imposed, when other means,
less oppressive in their effeits, and lefsex
penfive in their collection, may be substitu
ted. Such lie believed might be devised,
and if they could not be brought immediate
ly into operation, they might be organized
i in a short period. Additional duties of ex
cite, ftanips and impost, in some instances,
would in his view be preferable to a perma
nent system of direa taxation. Another
measure which appeared to him to merit the
serious conlideration of Congress, and at the
t people throughout the United States, is an
n alteration of the Constitution in fucli manner
e that Congress may be authorized to levy uni
- form duties or taxes on exports. This might
s be made a very produ£tivefourceof revenue,to
it be levied in such a manner as to draw the
e principal part, if not the whole, of the tax
k from foreigners, without the least injury or
y inconvenience to our own citizens—but time
". will be requisite to mature measures of this
- kind. He had not such an antipathy to the
t idea of a dirett tax, but he was willing to
e look at the fubjedt and examine it with can
ls dour.
e Although he.did not mean to pledge him
- felf that he would vote for it, he should be
>r glad to fee a bill before the house ; that op
d jjortunity might be given to examine the
iubjett in detail. Since the motion he had
- submitted, had been thought so exceptiona
n ble, he was willing for the present to modify
I, it. If gentlemen would concur with him in
is a substitute, he would withdraw the motion
y to strike out the word " annuallyand pro
is pose to add as an amendment at the end of
n the resolution the following words :
;t To be collefied for a term not exceeding
d. years ; provided the Legislature of the United
o State:/ball at all times be at full liberty to fub
d Jiitule other duties or taxes of equal value in lieu
thereof, for the pur pose of difebarging any debts
t or loans which may be contratled on the credit of
e said tax.
n Mr. Harper rose to fecoml the motion,
- because it concurred with his ideas on the
subject, that the revenues ought to be com
n menfurate with the debt incurred. He need
d not repeat, he said, that he had always befcn
e opposed to a iand tax, except in the cafe of a
- war, or of preparation for war ; but he now
- believed it necelfary.
Mr. Macon hoped this motion would not
obtain. In the-ftate fr.+ which he came,
they had ap annual Ifuitl tax, And found no
inconvenience'from its being annual. He
had no idea of a permanent tax on land, as all
1 the state governments collected their reve
! nues from thi> source, or from a capitation
tax, every other object having been fe'
upon by the United Sta'es. The idea ol 1»e
tax being laid for a number of years,
make it more unpopular than any thing else.
Alt our revenue laws are temporary. But it
was said it was necessary that this tax should
be permanent, in order to obtain loans'upon
it. He believed loans migftt be
obtained upon it.tho* it were palled anhually ;
for certainly tlmfe who lent the government
money would have so much confidence in it
as to believe that it would pay all its contracts
fairly and - honorably. He did not believe
that all the money appropriated could be ex
pended before the next ielfion of Congress.
Besides there is afurplus million in the Frea
fury ready lorany purpose which the Execu
tive thinks proper to apply it to.
It appeared to him as to the gentleman from
Massachusetts, that there might be other ar
ticles of taxation fixed upon. Several other
articles might be excised. A tax might be
laid upon alt mahogany furniture, all furni
ture made of imported materials, all looking
glaires above a certain size, watches of all
. kinds, plate and plated, furniture, prints,
umbrellas, another description of carriages
. might be made, viz. those with plated mount
ing might be made to pay a higher duty than
1 others' American ale, beer and porter,
. might also be excised, and a higher duty put
f' u-pon fu«h as is imported. Hair powder
I would also be a fit object of taxation He
. thought it one of the best ■Britith taxes, ?.nd
as we'had some of the worst. we might as w,;.e1l
, have it. All these articles were used by per
-1 sons win could very Wll affdrd to pay the
tax. If any mode could be devised ot railing
. money", exclulively of a land Tajcrvnti ftawp
t 'hn-ildl f
engage 4 in war, we fiioukl "Have distress e
-1 nougli, and a land tax ought to be our last
resource. Congress might go on, he said,
; and have the property afl'efled, without lay
iaganytax. He did not believe this would
■ make any difference, as he doubted whether
1 the aireirment could be made before ftie next
1 feflion.
; But it had been said, advantage ought to
; be taken of the enthusiasm of the moment to
| get this tax. The fame thing was said with
refpeft to the navy. He did not thick it ne
celi'ary to iake advantage of the enthusiasm
1 of the people to collect a tax; the people
, would always obey the laws.
> The gentleman from MafTachufetts (Mr.
1 Otis) had said, that his friends had prophefi
> ed to him that there would be opposition when
, the fubjeft of ways and means came before
s the house. He might also have heard him
- (Mr. M.) fay the fame thing ; and it now ap
: peared that.many who were ready to vote for
expences, were now amongst the molt back
- ward in providing revenue. The house had
f heard an elegant oration from the gentleman
from S. Carolina, and much faid'about France,
s with which he believed we Had nothing to do.
: He wished they might be left to manage their
s own concerns, and fuffer us to take care ofour
own. He hoped this amendment would be
3 negatived, that the law might be negatived,
r Mr. Gallatin considered the discussion
y of this amendment, as a continuation of the
3 discussion ot Saturday last ; the only differ
- e«ce betwixtthe twoqueftionswas,that what
t was then an affirmative, is now a negative po
sition j and those in favour of that, must, ot
r course, be against this. For the original mo
-1 tion of the gentleman front Matrachufetts
, (Mr. D. Foster) was, that t|je tax should be
- laid for one year, and not tor a number of
e years, which implied that it could not be
e pledged for a permanent loan ; but on this
1 day, the fame gentleman has perfectly chang
f ed his ground, for his .morion now establishes
e both principles, viz. that it fltali be laid for a
s number of years, and that it may be pledged
- for a permanent loan. He did not wonder,
s therefore, that the genttenian from S. Caro
lina (Mr. Harper) seconded his motion.
I There could only be two reasons, Mr. G.
- said, why such an amendment lhould obtain,
~ viz. that our permanest expences will be
- such as to render a permanent tax of this kind
- necessary, or else that some temporary ex
>, pence is contemplated far greater than have
- been voted. Neither of these principles were
- proved either by the gentleman from S. Ca
, rolina or the gentleman from Maflachufetts^.
But the gentleman from S. Carolina (Mr.
d Harper) instead of argument, took a mode
which he has more than once resorted to, of
>, giving the house some violent general decla
mation about invasion, the fate of Venice, di
r visions at home, weakness, See. which would
e apply to every thing and nothing. This had
e been the theme of the gentleman upon every.
n occasion, and upon every question from the
r repeal of the (tamp act, and the foreign inter
- course bill to the present one ; it was his ge
t neral ground, and in his opinion, did not on
o this occasion require any anfwer—nbr could he
e complain of the manner in which he had treat
it ed him, as he had divided his abuse pretty
r impartially between his friend from Malfa
e chufetts and himfelf. He had said that it was
s his (Mr. G's.) objeft to oppose everything
e which went to the defence of the country,and
o that he had too good an opinion of his under
- Handing not to believe that he was sensible
that would be the effett of the motion ; but »s
- he did hot believe the gentleman from Maf
e fachufetts made the motion with this view, of
- course, he must believe that it was for the
e want of understanding that that gentleman did
d not fee the effett of his motion.
But without attempting to reply to any
y thing of that kind, and believing that his
n motives and the understanding of the getitle
n man from Maflachufetts flood on as good
- ground at lead as those of the gentleman from
if S. Carolina, and did not stand in need of any
defence, he fhoyld vrocesd to examine that
part of his speech which verged a little to
d wards argument.
That gentleman has said, that there will be
■u much greater expence to be met, than is at
ts present voted. But was it not a very uncdm
9/ inon thing to vote money to pay an expence,
before the expence was authorized > Nay, he
1, believed that the expences already authorized
ie' could not all be incurred in one year.. But
1- fuppofitig the whole of the money could be
d expended during this year, the tax for one
II year would be fufficient for the whole amount
a of the expence authorized.
w It was a perfeftly navel do£trine to attempt
to prejudge, quefliuns. To fay there are other
measures wU! c,h maybe voted ia the affirma
tive. We shall want so nuichmore for (1) s I
and that object, and therefore it will be ne |
ceflary te make the tax permanent, was a cu
fious way of arguirtg. When an e*,pence
,Vas about to be incurred, it always became
a eonfideration whether t'ij means could be
conveniently found, bat h , never knew the
pofEbility of enpence maue an argument in
favor of raising new taxes, before it actu
ally decided "that the expence ft.tild take
place.
'lie confcdl-.f'Tif dirt fiot entertain those
fears which the gentleman from S. Carolina
had erfprelfed, with relpect to this country
being Uthjugate'd, or invaded ; nordid he ip
preliend the divisions at home which ha had
1 fpok.cn of. The necessity ef a (landing army
was the only ground upon which a calculation
of any conliderable additional expence Could
j be farmed ; the house having done all they
thought necelfary fortifications,
arms and gallies. So that there remains no
thing, except an additional or a provihonal
army that can require additional cxpences.
H,e did sot, however, cohlider that fubjefit
before the house ; nordid he believe that any
measure of that kind was necellary. except in
cafe of actual invasion. He did nbt trieart by
invalion, arty depredatory incur(i<jns upon our
territory, which the militia wo)ild be fully
able to meet, but an invalion by a regular ar
my—for, in ho other cafe would a regular
force be wanted He was not atraid of an
invalion of the CoYintry, because he had full)
confidence in the spirit of the people—in the
militia of the country, whose spirit and strength
were perfectly known abroad; and because
he knew that the great maritime exertion ne
cellary to transport any confidcrable force to
this country, arid the didancft at which we'are
, situate from E'urope, renders the idea of an
invasion of any serious kind altogether ridi
culous. He was not afraid of France man
ning her gurt boats to come to this country.
He looked upon the whole as a bugbear. He
mm fttuation to be really and fairly
appreciated J bm-»w-J»4-jA« ; jpviihtygive cuf-
I rency to imaginary fears.
exaggeration, ought to be known, ft' an in
vasion was not apprehended, he saw no rea
son why the tax should be permanent.
But it was said, and the present amendment
recognized the idea, that this tax was wanted
as a pledge for a loan. It must either be want
ed for anticipations, or for a permanent loan.
He would not have made the diftinflion, had
not the gentleman from Malfachufetts (Mr,
Otis) (aid, except this tax was made perma
nent, anticipations could not be got upon it.
This was an extraordinary assertion ; for an.
ticipations are only a sum of money equal to
the amount of a tax and advanced to govern
ment, before the tax is collected, and there
fore it would not be necelfary to lay this tax
for two or three years to fecurp the repay
ment of an anticipation eqtiiil to the amount
ot the tax for one year, if the bank of the
United States was not able or willing to lend
the government two millions of dollars, they
would not do it, even if the tax was laid for
several years. In England, the land tax is
laid yearly,yet the bankof'England constantly
Sc every yaer lends by anticipation to govern
ment its annual amount—But, in order to en
able the government to make permanent
loans, it was altedged this tax must be perma
nent. If a permanent tax of two millions
was necellary, he wished to know to what a
mount it was intended to borrow money f A
permanent tax to fhif afudutli would, as >ad
been stated by the gentleman from Maryland,
be a security for ten or fifteen minions of dol
lars, leaving a (inking fund of one million of
dollars a year for its repayment. And untefs
a sum of money to this extent was wanted,
there would be no necessity to pledge this tax.
Indeed if the money was wanted for provision
al army, oran auxiliary army, the expence of
which was calculated at eight millions for the
firft year, thfc arguments of gentlemen were
perfectly inapplicable. We do not (land in
need of a land tax on which to bottom a loan
to that amount. It is well know n that there
is a surplus million in our revenue, and will
not that be a fufficient pledge upon which to
bottom a loan for that piirpofe ? No longer
ago than iaft feflion a revenue of 200,000 dol
lars on (lamps was voted for the purpose of a
tjnd to raise a loan upon for the cxpences of
last (eflion ; but the loan lud not been ob
tained, the expences of last fellion had been
defrayed out of the current revenues ; that
fund was now liberated and was a pledge upon
which a loan might be obtained.
It did not appear to be either'prudent or
politic,-to pledge in this manner every reve
nue of the union. If the land-tax was to be
pledged for a number of years, what would
be our situation next year, if involved in war ?
It this last resource was pledged, he knew not
what gentlemen would apply to in future ne
cellities. Great Britain has never to this day,
, pledged her land-tax, amidst all her embar
raflfments.
But it was said, that it may be proper to
render this tax permanent to a certain degree,
as any overplus may go to the discharge of
the public debt. And here lie was charged
with inconfirter.cy, because two ysars ago"iie
wasin favour of a land-tax: It was extraor
dinary, because other gentlemen had changed
their ground, they should charge him w°ith
having changed his. Are not gentlemen who
were againlt a land-tax two years ago, and
who are now for it, so becaule Circumltances
have changed ?_ lie was in favour of a land
tax then, because the revenue was not ,(o
great as at present, and he therefore' changed
liis opinion with the cuvumftances. Look at
the documents on the table, and it would be
found that two years ago the duties arising
from impost and tonnage were only 5,800,000
dollars. At that time he was in favour of a
land tax of 1,200,000 dollars in order te, raise
the revenue up to feven,millions: At present
the revenue from impoAs and tonnage alone
' s 7.5+9,649 dollars ; that item atone gives an"
additional revenue larger by 560,1500 dollars
than what he was desirous to 6btain and the
necessity for a land-tax was done away. It
was moftextraordinary, that because he wi()i
ed to substitute a land-tax for the excise, fait
tax, stamps, and additional impost duties,
now when all thele had taken place that gen
tlemen should infiit that he mult (till be in
favour of a permanent land-tax. He had not
been in favor of a land-tax, from a predelic
tion for taxes generally ; for he thought they
were all attended with inconveru«ncies ; but
j he had been in favour of a land-tax, because
1 additional revenue was then necelfarv, and
I because he preferred that mode'of taxation so
! the others. But now that these other taxes
had been preferred and !sid bv Cofl£refs i-i
oppolition to his own opinion, and now that
the additional revenue had been procured by
'lose mean*, ha had no wilh to lay a perma
nent land-tax in addition lo the others. But
he was called upon to vote in favour of tl i#
tax, because he had heretofore called the
public debt a curse, asa part ol this tax might
go to pay oft that debt, and in order to be
confifteut, he oughlt to (upport it. It wsS
tfue that he contidered the public debt as a
evil, and ito gentleman ori
that floor, vthen he coniidered that three or
four million dollars a year were paid for the
jnmeft and partial iiiftaliuciits of the debt,
■.but mu(t b.e convinced our lituatioft
be more eligible, if ue were without ,that
debt- Yet »bou£h lie Called *t 4 curse, he
wilhed it tote "honourably v.ith nil dive
convenience; but, whenever he had a. favo—
rite objett, he did not rulli forward with it,
regardless of every thing eJle. He never pro
posed tCpay it offat bnci. There would be
a«> much evil attendant oii paying it oft too
rApidly, as would a rife from a negliil to dil-
any part of it. It ought only to lie
j paid in such a way as neither to encreafe the
i burthens of the people beyond a certain rate
I nor diffrefs the'country, \>y fending out ol it
| too much money am time, for it' nuifl be re*
1 collected that the greater part was owned a
. broad. The calculation lie hid made for-
I merly ,was to. pay off the fateign debt in twelve
years ; and he believed no gentleman cpuld
rhillk.it ought to be paid in lels ; and the lix
per cent, and (lock in 23 years ac
cording to contract. With respeCt to the 3
per cent, (lock, gentlemen Ihould recollect
that it could not be reduced in that wjjy. _lt
would be folly to pay ios. in the pound lor
that debt. \V'e have another resource which
will be equal to the payment of that, viz. the
land of the United States, this had been hi»
object at all times, it was still what he con
templated, and Jifwe do that, and keep from
war, or increased expences, there will not be
much danger to be apprehended troni that
debt.
But it was extraordinary that gentlemen'
Ihould speak of rtijucingtlie public debt, oi\
the present occasion, wnilft, by the very a-'
mendment under consideration, the tax was
to be rendered permanent for the sole purpose
of pledging it for a loan and of encrealing the
public debt: Gentlemen are hot willing ta
vote it from year to year because they v.ifh to
go further into the funding system. They
want a tax as a pledge upon which to borrow
money, and ypt talk of payire ptf the old dtbt.
If that tax Ihould neither be wanted so sup
port an additional army, n«r as a pledge for a
. loan, nor as a fund to meet the permanent
J expences of the union after the year ISOO,
from part experience, he had no delire to 111-
crease our revenue beyond our wants. He
had already stated that the present revenue is
lulicient for the present expences, and to pay
oft" the public debt within as (hort time as it
would be desirable to pay it off, a)id he could
1 not think it defifable, therefore, to extend the
{ tax further than from year to year,
r Gentlemen tell others, that the tax may be
s at any time repeated, if it Ihould not be want
s ed ; but from what hs had seen heretofore,
he cho(e rather to leave the power in that
house ofcontiniiingit or not. He had nevei*
seen any proportions' succeed for repealing a
tax j oivthe contrary, as our revenue increales,
our expencet are made to keep pace with
them. A new regiment, or a few additional
1 frigates, or some new eftablilhment, will at
1 any tim/i confuine any surplus of revenue
, which may be on hand. This had neretofore
been the practice of this government, and he
f expected it would continue to be so. Indeed,
s it was ,the tendency of all governments. It
, was the tendency of man—w hen a perfou
. grows rich, helooksoutforobjectsof expence,
on which to employ his fuperfluous wealth,
f Hewilhed, therefore, inprder to prevent this
: extension of expence without neceflity, to
: confine the taxes and the revenue to the ex
-1 penct already created.
1 Mr. G. said he would not enter into i] lc
s detail of what the gentleman fawn S. Carolit
1 na called millakes in htS ttatfcmcnts, because
) the documents were on the t.ibh, and any
r gentleman might resort to them; and befi'des
- all these supposed millakes did not, according
-1 to the gentleman of S. Carolina himfelf a
s mount to one million of dollars ; and, accord
- ing to the calculation which lie had made
1. there would tie more than that luhi to (pare
t to cover any mi (takes whatever, l'fe did not
I think it neceflary, therefore, to detain the
House with it ; 'but he would only refer to
r the report of the committee of ways and
- means made twoA's ago in support of the '
e correCtnefc of his a,u nion that 800,000 tlol
i kits a year were (ufficient to pay the whole of
( the Dutch debt in twelve years,
t Mr. G. concluded by laying that if the
- gentleman from MafTachufetts had merely
, withdrawn his amendment, leaving it to be
- determined when the bill came in,"whether
.or not the tax Ihould be limited in its durati
-0 011, he (liould not have objected to that
, course ; because by the time the bill wa". be
f fore the House, it will have been determined
rt whether or not a provilional afmy is to be
e raised, or an augmentation made to our pre
- sent force. It would then hSe been t'nie
J enough to have introduced the present prin'ci
h pie, and he supposed Amply to have with
-0 drawn the amendment would have fatisfied
1 the gentleman's friends. This not havinir
s been the cafe, he trusted the present motion
- would be negatived.
0 Mr. Harper could not help congratulat
d ing the gentleman from Pennsylvania on hi*
t mode of dividing the censure which iie (fated
e him to have call upon himfelf and the -entle
g man from MalFachttfctts by making him
o (Mr. H.) to fay that he (Mr. G ) w™
a wanting in principle, and the gentleman
e from Maflachi.fetts in sense. If he tho't
it the means of railing money.. Mr. S. fad he
e perhaps might feel upon this (abject more
II this a tairdivifion he was (atisficd. But he
s could a (I'm re him he meant so make no fijeh
e divilion. His obfeu>ntioris went to (View (hat
t the system of the gentleman from IVnnfyl vi
- ma had Ircenoppofcd to everynjeafure of de
it fence; that he thought it much better to
i, make no defence than to increale our exp en
- ces. He did not enquire into his motives"
11 nor fliould he ever; he believed they
it fufficien.ly obvious But talcing themotion
- of his friend from MalTachtiferis as.nromotirp
y his views, he was not fwrprized at the eager
it nefi with which he rose in its fuppcrt °u"
e did fay, knowing the difpafition of the'
d tlema'i from Malfachufetts to be in favourof
o measures of defence, that this motion went to'
rs deflroy the fyfbem which he had luppor'ted •
.'i but because a man may overlook the tendeu!
* - •
\VOJ,ume XIII.cy of a nation, does it follow that he is a
blockhead? Certainly not.
I'he foundation of the speech of the gen
tleman from Pennsylvania was laid on the
supposition that theie could be no increa(e of
ex . ence in our government, except from the
ra ling of a provisional army, or an increase
of the present army. But is this a true state
of thefa£t l Were the go,ooo militia order
ed to be hel3 in readiness to produce no ex
pence ? The gentleman had all along spoken I
of militia as if they could be called into ser
vice without eypence. Did not he know,
that when they were called out, there wopid
be the expence of camps, tents, pay, and all
the expences of a regular army, except the
enliffment and bounty paid td soldiers. So
that he could not fee any groat difference-in
expenre be'wixt calling out the militia, or
raifingan army, except in the article of boun
ty, as he had mentioned. He therefore ap
prehended tHat the calling of these militia in
to service might be'attei*'ed with an expence
of twenty millions of dollars, and the Presi
dent may,' next week, if he thinks proper,
call any number of them into service.
The next argument of the gentleman is e
qnally fallacious. Admitting that govern
ment may have occasion tor loans, yet the
fur phis million of revenue in the Treasury
would be a fufficient bottom for them. But .
was it certain that we should have no other
expences besides that of providing for addi
tional military force? Could it b<»faid no
more money would be wanted under the 6th
article of the Britidi treaty ? He recollefled
when that subject was under debate, that a
gentleman from Virginia had said, it would
produce an expence offifteen millions of dol
lars. *He never believed any such sum Would
be wanted. 300,000 dollars had already been
appropriated, and he supposed the whole ex
pence might amount to betwixt two and three
millions.
And yet the gentleman from Pennsylvania
was willing the revenue of the country should
depend upon its present (in cafe of war) un
certain refo'wrces. And this was the basis to
be offered to monied men, as a security for
their money. It was in vain to fay how much
more than the two millions would be wanted.
He believed it was the intention to fill the
blank in this amendment with two or three
years, and then, if iv? had not had occasion
to incur any extraordinary expences, or make
any heavy loans, the tax would come to an
end. But suppose this amendment isrejetted,
and the bill is confined to one year's duration,
it will in a great measure defeat the purpose
of the bill.
As to the declaration which,the gentleman
from Pennsylvania dated fcim as nfing, lie
vould affiire htm that he should not eeale to
cail the attentioivof the House to the dangers
of the country, and though he might contin
ue to adminilter anodynes as'much as he plea
jfal, he would be doomed to hear him, whilst
•he uas-a member of that House, warn them
against the effects of his foporifics. Mr. H.
again adverted to the situation of Europe,
and to the probability of an attack upon this
country, which he said the gentleman from
Pennsylvania might call declamation, but
which he called truth. He hoped, however,
the attack would not be made ; and if not,
the expence would not be incurred. If the
law passed with a principle similar to this a
mendir.ent, he believed a loan would soon be
filled up. He knew it would be done chiefly
from patriotic motives ; but those who ad
vance .money will, notwithstanding, expert to
have a folicHroj e oTareimburfement of their
money ; and if this should be refufed, the
country would be left defencel'fs for want of
pecuniary refoiircfis'. This, he supposed,
■would be bad economy; and he could not
help entering his protest against this system,
■whatever may be the motives which lead to
it.
Mr. FiNDtEY said, it was admitted on all
hands," that it depended on a contingency
whether this tax would be wanted g.t all. For
his own part, he was under no apprehension
ot any formidable invasion of this country |
taking place before Congress meets again. If
France is desirous of leaking conquests, the re
are much preferable objects to this country,
nearer home. The difficulties which have
so long agitated Europe, are not yet so far
fettled, as to fuffer Franca to fend out any
formidable force here. Let the condiift of
the French government have beep as bad as
it can be painted, it cannot !be said that
it has ever wholly loft fight of its own inter
eff; and it would not be her interest to make
an'invafiou of this country at this time ; and
therefore there is no neceflity for going into
meafurss as if an invading army was immedi
ately expelled amongst us.
A land-tax was with him a favorite tax.
He h.id long wished it. He was for adopting
it some time ago, and for taking advantage
of alow market, to have bought up the pub
. lie debt. Bui when he came to into
the fubjfrft, he found that many of the States
had laid direel taxes for the support of their
own government. There is now an appear
ance of neceflity for this tax ; butbeinga new
tax under the general and not
likely to be very to some parts of
the Union, it would be proper to make the
law of short duration. Upon constitutional
ground, he was against continuing a direel
tax longer than two years j every Congress
ought to pass a vote upon it, but in the pre
sent indance he believed the law would be
best pafled for one year only.
Bnt it was faidthis tax nnift be permanent,
as a bottom to loans. This was exprefling a
distrust of future Congrefles, which he tho't
improper- B ut it was asserted that neither
public institutions nor monied citizens would
lend their money on the credit of Congress,
withoM a permanent source of revenue was
provided as a security. Are gentlemen jufti
fied by experience in this opinion I He be
lieved not. Mr. F. mentioned several instan
ces to (hew the contrary, and doubted not
the fame readiness would again appear in aid
of government whenever it wanted it.
Mr. F. was of opinion that if power was
given to the President to raifc 20,000 men, as
a provisional army, they could be got before
the next session of Congress. Officers might
be app6inted, and he had no doubt they
would. If these men were not raised, and
any occasion should call for military service,
the militia, of course, would be resorted to.
But w as there any reason to believe that more
militia would be called out in the course of
the year than one year's land-tax would pro
vide for? He could not believe thertf would.
He supposed every gentleman would vote
according lo the idea he had of the.contin
gency which had been mentioned being likely
V 6 take place, or otherwise. Difficulties
would always attend the laying of a new taX ;
and w hen it should be necetfary to lay a direst
tax he would have it for some confTderable
ftim) as the expence of collecting would be
the fame whether it was for a large or a small
amount. Though it plight prove difagreea
bl< to the people, they will pay it if neteffa
v • but, laid he, let it be tried for a year,
and do not difgult the people by giving them
a'n idea that they (ball never S et rid of the
J.? entlemen might again be told, that they
rcfufe to provide any means of defence for the
country, that this is a leaf.clf the fame book,
&c\ But could it be supposed, said Mr. F.
that he should mind foVh charges i Or was
it to be ctedited that the people would be
lieve that he who had been enfplojMd/in the
formation of this government, and in execu
ting it everfince it existed, and wfio hadrifk
ed every thing to*btain it, should now re
fufe to support any measure which was calcii-
I lated to (jefend it ? It could not. They will
not believe these aspersions. ,
Mr. F. concluded by observing that if this
law was pad for one year, he could confi
dently rely on future Congrelfes to renew it, I
if the situation of the country should require
it.' It would not hereafter be convenient for
him to take auy farther (hare in the publifc
councils, but not diftrufl the wis
dom and patriot 11 of those who might fallow
him ; and to do away the charges continually
made againlt himfelf and others, that they
were not willing to defend the country, he
Qiould the, yeas and nays upon every
question of'defence which came before the
House.
Mr. S. Smith did not like the amend
ment ; but he should vote for it, because if
he could not get all he wished, he would get
all he could. If the. blank was to be filled
with two or three years (as had been intimat
ed) it would not go far enough to induce mo
nied men to rely upon it as a permanent se
curity.
There seemed to be no difference of opinion
as to the proyriety of laying a direst tax ; it
only seemed to be as to the length of time for
which it to be laid. He agreed with
those gentlemen who allert that money can,
not be borrowed, except a permanent fund be
provided. But gentlemen fay where are your
expences f Certain expences have been agreed
to, which are proposed to be met by a direil
tax ot two millipns ; but could it be suppo
sed that the proceeds of this tax could be
brought into theTreafuryinlefs than eighteen
months ? They could not, and something must
be done in the mean time to raise the money
already voted, whether any war takes place,
or not. How was this to be don? ? By loans
alone. But what inducement will there be to
monied men to lend money, except a perma
nent revenue be made the security ? You ho! 4
out the credit of the United States,which has
not heretofore been injured. This is true.
But heretofore we have not been engaged in
war; we have had nothing to impede our
Revenue. But if a war takes place, it is pofli
ble our revenue may fuffer very materially :
and Congress are*» provide a fund,
which in theopinion of some will leave no per
manency, &»ntheopinionofothers, very little.
And would it not requirg a great degree of
fiatriotifm in gentlemen to lend twenty fhil
ings for twenty (hillings, when they can go
into the market, and purchase them with fix -
te«n. The difference of opinion on this fuD
jeft, he was convinced, arose from the differ
ent pursuits of the members of that house.
Certain gentlemen believed monied men
would advance money without a perma
nent tax as a security. He believed the
contrary ; for however great a confidence
they may have in the honour ot future
Congrefles, they would wish to fee this Con
gress do something for their security. He fear
ed gentlemen were not in earned when they
spoke of defending the country. We have
men, said he, but we want money. He did not
agree with the gentleman from N. Carolina
(Mr. Williams) that flaws fought for money,
and freemen only for liberty. If he commanded
a regiment of Militia, he believed they would
expeil to be paid, and he could not believe
he would term them (laves. Money must be
had.
Thegentlanianfrom Pennsylvania wasafraid
of making the Revenue permanent, because as
our revenue increased, it had been usual, not
to repeal our revenue laa«s,butto increase our
expences. Whence did he colleft this infor
mation ? Not from the documents on the ta
ble ; for there he would find that there was
an unexpended surplus of .one million nine
hundred tlioufand dollars, which were in 1797
applied by the Commissioners of the Sinking
Fund to the reduction of the Public Debt.
We have, (aid he, gone on decreasing our .ex
pences. It was true, that ourdifpute with Al
giers, and a war with the Indians, had cost a
great deal of money ; but when the war with
the later wa* at an end our expences were de
creased. And now an income of expence is
asked for to repel threatened danger; and
gentlemen have voted measures of defence ;
but now they come to touch the expence they
flinch. Men may memorialize and talk about
defence as long as they please, it will avail
nothing, without money.
But gentlemen fay, before we raise money,
let us wait to fee whether it will be necefTary.
They might as well fay, " let us wait till we
are devoured," which would be the cafe if we
neglefted to raise money until our enemy was
at the deor.
But gentlemen call for a statement of ex
pence. He would remind them, that it was
proposed to raise a Provisional Army of at
lead 10,000 men, which would cost four mil
lions dollars a year. It wasalfo proposed that
the President mould have power to call out
20,000 militia to be trained, and the payment,
of them mud be provided for. It would not
be right to leave the President without mo
ney. At the time you give him the authority
to raise, and call out men, you must give him
than some other gentlemoti, because he knew
the difficulty attendant on the raifingof money.
Mr. Otis said, the gentleman last up had
anticipated some of the observations which he
intended to have made ; but he would fug
ged a few remarks in favour of the present
motion. ,
The gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
Gallatin) had used arguments to (hew, that no
tax of this fort is necessary. He (hould not re
ply to any arguments of this fort, because the
committee have already decided upon the
quantity and principle of the tax. But, if he
was under the neceflity of answering such ob
servations, he would refer to the gentleman's
own book, (which however he had not yet
read, but meant to read) and because the Se
cretary of the Treasury and the Committee of
Ways and Means, had recommended a dirsft
tax as the only source which could.be depend
ed upon for a permanent revenue.
But it had been said, no invasion could be
expefted to take place. His opinion was,
however, though the danger might not be
very great, it ought to be guarded agaiaft.
In a certain pajt of the country at lead, he
believed there was considerable danger : In
deed the house has voted considerable films
for defence, and there remains, according to
the report of the committee of Ways and
Means, a balance unprovided for, of 1,396,705
dollars, for the meeting of which the commit
tee have recommended a land tax of two (nit
ons. And if the tax was voted, it ought to
be voted in such a way as that the money
maybe railed; and he thought the gentle
man from Pennfylvariia had taken a greater
latitude in his observations than he complain
ed of in the gentleman from S. Carolina who
I had held up a piiture Before their eyes, of
which the house ought continually to be re
minded. He liad already dated tjiat this mo
ney mwft be borrowed, and that it could not
be got, rf the tax was hid in the usual way.
A man who has money to Jend will not part
with it without a certainty of being
It had been said, that it was not improbable
that the enemy might make a landing in some
of the fouthem states. Suppoie they were to
do so, and keep pofleflion ol a part of the
country for some time, the present tax could
not be draws from thence. Momed men
would take such an event into their calculati
on, and they would a prudently 111 doing 10,
because the o'lier parts ot the country would
not be liable to up the deficiency. In
I such a cafe, the creditor would have nothing
•to depend upon blit the faith of government,
and he migh't as: well depend upon that 111 the
ftrft instance as to lend his money upon an un
certain security. There would also be the
tfvpence .ps collection to be deducted, which
fuppofed would not be less than 10 per
cent. Considering all these circumstances, it
"he was the Director of a Bank, or had the
mOney to lend, he-would not lend more than
one million upon this two million tax. The
gentleman from Pennfylva<iia had said, that
Great Britain never mortgaged.her land tax
for a number of years, though he acknow
ledged they annually anticipated it. No man,
Mr. O. said, would lend his money without
considering the rilk he ran in doing so, and he
thought it was mucji less in England than in
this country at this time. The principle
which he wiflied to engraft in the bill was,
that the tax Iheuld be continued until the
money which had been borrowed upon if
ftiould be repaid. Not that he was in favour
of a land tax. He should himfelf pay as
large a proportion of this tax as any man
whole property was not larger than his ; be
cause of his little fortune, a greater part was
in land than in any thingelfe. He was there
fore interested in preventing the tax. If it
were to pass, however, he wilhed it to be ef
fectual.
Mr. Varnum hoped the motion under
consideration would be negatived. The gen
tleman from Maryland (Mr. S. Smith) gave
two reasons on Saturday, against striking out
the word annually. One was that it was ne
cellary the tax should have some permanency,
in order that money might be borrowed upon
it, and another that it might be a substitute
for indirect taxes. That gentleman allowed,
and he perfectly agreed with him in opinion,
that in cafe of war, the defalcation in our re
venue hejdid not suppose would be large, and
that in our present situation he had no ideaot
a defalcation. If then, a defalcation of ® or
revenue was not sol>e expected, he thought
he ftioulif be able to make it appear, that the
proposed tax is not neceflary at all ; and, ot
course, that it will not be right to pass it lor
more than one year. But the gentleman from
Maryland fays the people ought to be reliev
ed from Indirect Taxes, because for every
i2§ per cent duty the consumer pays 274.
Does that gentleman wilh then that the mer
chant (hould be deprived of a profit of 15 per
cent, on the duties which he now pays ( If
so, this might be very well effected, without
doing away the duty, and substituting a land
tax in its place, by the merchants lowering
he price of their goods 15 per cent!
But the gentleman added another re»fon,
for jading the law for a number of years, viz. ;
that this tax might be at any time repealed, j
But, although this house might consent to a 1
repeal of this tax, it'was by no means cer- !
tain that the other house would consent to its j
repeal. Indeed, it was his opinion, that it {
1 this tax was eftablilhed as a permanent tax, j
that the people of this country would not be
relieved trom it for many years. Many ob
jects, he had no doubt, would be found out,
by gentlemen ever fruitful in this respeCt,
upon tfhich to expend any surplus which
might arise from this tax.
The gentleman from S. Carolina, on Sa
turday, brought into view our situation with
\efpe4t to France, and our liablenefs to an
attack from that nation. He alluded to the
conversion which-took place betwixt our
envoys and X. Y. & 2. and thence inferred
that it was probable this country would be
attacked by France. He could not fay that
all the propositions made by these unautho
rized persons were not from the Directory;
but there was no evidence of"this, and there
fore he could nor believe it, especially as the
Agents themselves declared they were not.
He thought, therefore, if we wifked to pre
serve peace with France, that we ought not
to be too forward in believing that all which
was said by X. Y. and Z. was authorized by
the French government. He hoped it would
prove to be the conrtary, and that when the
Directory (hall discover what has been done,
they will punijh these persons for their con
duct.
The gentleman from S. Carolina had fre
quently introduced to the view of the house
the situation of Switzerland, Venice, Spain,
Holland, and other countries. As to him
felf he.had no idea of elpoufing the cause.
of those countries; it was fufficient in his o
pinion that we defended our own. In doing
this, he would go as far as any man, but he
did not wilh to go to Venice or to Rome to
fight in the cause of the Pope. What was
meant by .ob&rrattons like these, but to pre
pare the minds of the people for a situation of
things which that gentleman expefted and
wilhed lor I And it gentlemen did not come
into all his views, he immediately charges
them with not being willing to defend their
country; with being flow to protett their
wives and their children. He (hould have
supposed that men who had left their /ami
lies, and fought for their country for eight
years together, would now feel the neceflity
of defending their wives and children, as
much as that gentleman who never had either.
But it appeared to him that the gentleman
from S. Carolina, in making the observations
which lie did, departed from the principle l(-
tabliflied by the committee of ways and means,
of jvhich he is the chairman. They have
stated that no additional revenue is wanted,
except to meet the extraordinary expences of
the present feflion. Amongtheleextraordinary
expences are 340,000 dollars for fortifications,
and for the procuring of cannon, arms, and
ammunition 900,000. If the fortifications
are once completed, they surely will not want
completing a second time ; and the appropri
ation for providing cannon, arms and ammu
nition could not be conlidered as an annual
expence but merely as an expence for the
present year. Was not this also the cafe
with refpedt "so the naval armament ? He ho
ped it was not intended that 950,000 dollars
fhould'be appropriated annually for this ob
jeft. If this Ihould hereafter'be determin
ed, Congress would of course provide the
means for effecting it.
Mr. V. supposed the calculation of the a
mount of duty arising from imports and ton
nage for the prelent year, might very fafely
be taken at the actual receipts of last year,
v,z ' . 7»549»649
The duties on domestic manufac
tures, &c. 575,491
Revenue on the postage of letters 50,000'
Fees on letters patent 1,400
Proceeds oithalpartofthe finking
fund which consists of interest'
and flockpurchafed orredeemed 89,457
Dividends on 2210 shares of ftotk
of thebankof the United State's,
calculated at 32 dollars a (hare 7*>°4 0
8,337,037
Take from this sum the ordinary
expenditure 6.3341 111
There remains a surplus of 1,982,926
But it was stated by the Secretary of the
Treafury,that inconsequence of the depreda
tions committed upon our trade, theie mas
be a deficiency of revenue in the present year,
and upon this probability the committee of
ways and means have grounded their report..
He flieuld wifli to view the fubjeit with can
dour, and not to deceive himfelf. He kpew
that fimilarobfervations had been made from
year t'o year, lince depredations had been
committed upon our commerce by foreign
nations, but he also knew that faCts had shewn
themjo be ill founded. In the year 1795,
tbedifcy srifing from this source was 5,588,961
dollars; In 1796, 6,567,987 ; and in 1797,
7,549,649 dollars. And he had no doubt the
revenue from imports and tonnage for the
prefeht year would increase in the fame pro
portion in which it has ihcreafed for the three
years part, and if so, that alone would •pro
duce upwards of eight millions aiid an half ot
dollars. Allowing that the imports and ton-.
nagejwUl make 8,500,000
Ada the additional imports laid at
the last winter feflion, and. the
fait tax of the summer feflion
which at a moderate calculation
will amount to 600,000
The stamp tax 200,000
To which add the various other ar
ticles of revenue mentioned a
bove, amounting to 7 g 7>3*B
Alio add the estimated increase of
the internal revenue . 125,000
And the whole wi',l amount to 10,212,388
From which deduct the whole ex
pences of the present year, as
stated by the committee of ways
and means, viz. 9.808,603
And there will remain a surplus of 403,785
But it was probable that the revenue ari
sing from imports and tonnage fevould consi
derably exceed the sum he had mentioned ;
for, according to the amount of the duties a
riling from the firft quarter of the present
year, the revenue from that source alone
would.amount to ten millions of dollars, in
which caCe thc whole revenue may be estima
ted at ii,Hi,3*B dollars, and would leave a
of the fiibjeCt was corrcfl it
appeared to him-if the proposed tax was laid
at all, it ought not to be for tnore than one
year. If gentlemen had any thing in view
which was not before the house he could not
speak to that. But if the United States were
under the neceflity of borrowing fifteen mil
lions of dollafs, there was no,neceflity for this
tax for that purpose, as the iurplus million,
three hundred thousand dollars accruing an
nually, was a fufficient security for the pay
ment of the interest on a loan to that amount.
He was against continuing the tax for a lon
ger period than one year for another reason.
I It was to becollefted from houses, lands and
! Haves. This, in, the part of the country from
■ whence he same would operate very unjustly.
j In the state of Massachusetts the people pay
annually for the interest of their state debt,
] expences of the civil department, county and
J town charges, support of the poor, highway
I taxes, and for the support of public schools
| and ministers ot thegofpel, a direct tax of be
tween 12 and 1300,000 dollars. This tax is
collected from polls, and from real and per
sonal estates. with some few exceptions* and it
1* found that persons holding small farms
there, and who have families to bring up, find
it difficult to pay these taxes. This additi
onal tax will therefore fall very heavy upon
this dais of people, as they will principally
have to bear the burden, being wholly laid
upon houses and tlip landed property in that
quarter of the }imon. No tax, therefore,could
be calculated to excite fomuchdlflatisfattion
in that part of the United Stares as this. The
people will certainly pay it, if it be laid, but
they will not do it cheartully. He should,
therefore, be against laying the tax for more
than one year.
The qucftion was put and negatived 46 to
35-
Mr. D. Foster then renewed his motion
to strike out the word annually', which was
carried, there being 60 votes for it.
The question on .the amendment providing
for the taking of a new cenlus, was put and.
carried, there being 57 votes for it.
Mr. Reed moved an amendment which
went to strike out the provision which propo
ses that the tax shall be laid by an uniform
rule through all the states, with the view of
inserting in its place the following words,
" and upon such other estates uuiibin each parti
cular state as is taxable according to the eftablifb
ed rule Of direfl taxation in each state."
The motion was negatived, there being 21
votes for it. '
The report was referred to the committee
of ways and means, to report bills according
ly" Adjourned.
A Morning School,
From fix till eight o'clock, is opened at
The New School Room,
Back of Ne. 147, in Chefnut Street, for the Edu
cation of Boys and Young Men in the Etiglilh and
French Languages, Writing, Accounts, &c.
may 14 tw J. WATERMAN.
A few boxes of Umbrellaa
To be Sold cheap—by
Mordecat Lewis.
m »y *7 *■ daw
Very Great Bargains,
CONSIS TING of Table Linen, Scotch and
India Muslins, now felling off and well
worth the attention of Houfekeeperi to make
purchase of Enquite of
1 homes Randall,
WVe. 88 Sprucc-Jireet.
may 17 §
TO RE RENTED,
To a Small Genteel Family.
APleafant House ifrDock-ftreet, near Front
ftreet—Apply at No. 155 South Second-
Street.
mar 77 ( £
• FOR SJLE.
A THREE Story Brick House, oh the north
fide ef Spruce-street near Second-street,
adjoining the wall ef Mr. Jones's garden and
formerly occupied by David Lenox, efq.—This
house is incompleat repair with back buildings,
confifiing of a Piazza, Kitchen and a hindfome
r Dining Room over the Kitchen.
, As any Person inclined to purdiafe will view
1 the premifes,a more pirticular description iscon
fidered unneceiTary.
[_ The terms of payment will be one third cafli,
> one third is 6 months and the remainder in 12
> months with inters. For further information,
Enquire of ■ JOHN CRAI&,
.3- - AY 12 Dock-Jlreet.
may fs 4
%\ je <sasettc.
P HILAD E LP HI A,
FRIDAY EVENING, May 18S.
At a numerous andrefpe&able meeting 0 £
the inhabitants of Shepherd's Town ana Itt
vicirfity, in the co.unty .of Rerkely and state
of Virginia on the 28th day of April' 1798,
Resolved, That a committee be appoint
ed forthwith, to prepare an address to the Pre
sident of the United States, expressive of
the sentiments and design of this meeting.
Resolved, That John Kearfley, Joseph
Swearingen, Joh:» Baher, jun. Abraham
Shepherd, Edward Williams and William
Lemon be the committee for that purpose.
The committee after a short rstirement
produced the following Address, which We*
ing publicly read and unanimouily approved,
Resolved, That the committee in behalf of
themselves and this meeting, place their sig
natures to the said address and forward it
with all convenient speed to Gen. Daniel
Megan now in Congrefe, to "be by him
presented to the President of the United
States.
To JOHN ADAMS. .1
Prs/ident of the United Statu •
SIR)
In the present eventful period, wheh nn
remitting depredations are committed on
our commerce, wanton cruelty exercised on
our seamen, the general government tradu
ced, the Executive vilified, and our very
exigence threatened by the Trench govern
ment and that through the means of our
own citizens ; we eftfem it a duty we owe
to our country, to ourselves, and to poffe
rity, publicly to declare our sentiments, and
to offer every fuppprt in in our power to the
constituted authorities. We therefore de
clare to yon Sir, that we are of opinion yon
have done every-thingthat under theexiftiirg
circumft*n»-«-» uuuhl "be JliSie, with due tft
garu-fo ttie general fafety, tree honour, and
essential interest of the United States, to
cultivate a good understanding and preserve
peace with the French nation. And that
through the unexampled perfidy and unpa
ralelled baseness of the conduct of that gov
ernment towards ut, nothing further
can be attempted confident with the max
ims that constitute the basis of on* national
Sovereignty. And w« further declare t6
you, Sir, and to the world, that your ad
misiftration of the executive governmeHt in
all refpeds, meetsour most cordial and hearty
approbation, • and ihould a storm await and
our enemies aflail us, while by the blefling
of Providence we have ample resources, and
a chief magistrate at the helm delervedly
poffefiing our confidence, while we have a
right to hope for the energetic concurrence
of the legislative branches, and can appeal
to HeavenMor the justness of our cause, we
fear no consequences, are determined ia
any event to support the government of our
own choice with our lives and fortunes.
John Kearfley
Joseph Swearingen |
"John Baher, jun. I _
Abraham Shepherd [ Committee.
Edward Williams )
William Lemon. J
To which the President returned the/oUomag
ANSWER.
; To the|lnhabitanti'of Shepherd's Town and
ks vcinity, in the county of Berke- :
ley, in the State of Virginia.
GENTLEMEN,
The generous sentiments of approbates
a I'd confidence conveyed in this nervous ad
dress, command my particular refpedt.
I had never until lately, any expe&ation,
that I should live to fee, unremitted depre,
dations committed on our commerce ; wan
too cruelties exercised on our seamen ; our
general government traduced ; the Execu
tive authority vilified, and our very exig
ence threatened, through the means of our
citizens or any other with impunity. I had
no suspicion indeed, that mankind would
ever have taken it into their heads, to try o
ver again, experiments which had been a
million times tried, and always found evil.
lam happy in your opinion, that every
thing has been done, under the exiftingcir
cureliances, that could be done by me, withr
a "due regard to the general fafety, true hon
or andeffentialintereftsof the United States.
Wi*h you I clearly agree, that nothing fur
ther can be a'i*T pted, confidently with the
maxims that conllitute the basis of our na
tional sovereignty.
Your cordial approbation of my adminis
tration of the Executive Government, in all
refpefts is highly honorable and affediug to
me.
Should our enemies aiTail usat home, yott
will have no reason to doubt of the energetic
concurrence of the Legislative Branches,
whose knowledge of our ample resources,
must give them all needfar'y firmnefs ; whose
pc-suasion of the justice of our cause, will
enable them to make the lad appeal when
necefTary, and whose American hearts, will
prompt them to support their country, with
their lives and fortunes in common with their
fellow-citizens.
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May 10, 1798. /
At a numerous and'refpeffable meeting of the ci
tizens of Dorchejlir county, Maryland, held
at Cambridge on the firfl day of May, the fol
lowing address was unanimeu/ly agreed to nil
tranfmiteed by order of the said meeting,
fthn Dennis, their' reprefintati've, to be by
him handed to the President.
To thi PRESIDENT or ihi UN T TEDSTAT£&
r «• f"
At this critical period, when the feeling' ot
every heart, imprefled with the sentiments or
love and duty to its country, mnft be excited, we
the cititcns of Dorchester county, take the lib- -
evty to address yoji upon the conduiS wnich **
chief majriftrate of the United States, you have ,
pursued is our disagreeable differences with the. _
I frettth republic. AVebeg you to be afiuren !- ,jrjrr*;r lttenrptrto restore harmony between the
two natieus on just and honorable terms and aS
fo yonr firm afTertion of the claims, rights and
independence of our country, meet ouf most
cordial approbation* and have secured our warm
est gratiiude—We feel with indignation and re
sentment the insults and contempt, with which
your offers of reconciliation and of friendfhip
hare been treated, particularly as those offei s
were made, after our commerce had been har
ftfed and almost deftroyedby the most wanton
and lawless depredations—after our nation had
been iftfulted by the most vile and insidious At
tempts to overawe and di&ate to our legally
constituted authorities. Although w« highly
value the blessings of peace, vet under the pro
tection of heaven, we are determined to rely
with full confidence on your well tried patriot
ism and wisdom, firmly refolycd to support with
our lives and property, the honor, the Liberty
and Independence of our country.
MOSES LEGOMPTEj Ghairman.
JOSIAH BAYLY, Sec'y.
To the. Citizens of Dorchejler in the Statet of
Maryland.
GENTL EMEN ,
Your unanimous address agreed upon at Cam
%ridge, has been prefehte.d to me by your repre
sentative Mr. Dennis.
When you express in terms of so much force
and propriety, the feelings of your hearts, im
pressed with, feutiments of love and duty to your
country ; when you aflurc me that my attempts
to restore harmony between the United States
and France on just and honorable terms, and my
firm aflertiort of the claims, rights and indepen
dence of our country, meet your cordial appro
bation, and have secured your warmest grati
•tnde ; when you express your feelings of indig
nation and resentment, at the insults and con
tempt with which our offers of reconciliation
and friendfhip have been treated, particularly as
these offers were made, after our commerce had
been harraffed by wanton and lawless depreda
tions and bur nation had been insulted by vile
and insidious attempt* to overawe ancf dictate to
our legally constituted authorities ; when you
declare your determination to rely with full con
fidence on my endeavors, firmly resolved to sup
port with your lives and fortunes, the honor,
liberty and independence of our country under
the prote&ion of heaven ; you penetrate my
heart with gratirude for what concerns myfelf
and most receive the loud applause of the hone ft
world for what,i-ooceta* .
JOHN _
Philadelphia> May \zth % 1798.
ADDRESS of the Mil it in Officers of Netvcafile coun
ty, state of Delaware, convened at Cbrijliana Briige
oj the Jjrfi of this month.
To il* PRESIDENT of the UtfTTED STATES.
A number of the Officers of the Militia of N eiczafle
county, in the state of Delaware, imprejfed ivith the im
fxtrtance- of the present crifts of public affairs, io the hap
s inefs and independencepf the United States ; aud conceiv
ing that the unjtijl and imperious conduft of the Republic
ef Francs toivards America, has been dictated in a great,
measure by the unfounded riifreptcfentations of her own
agents, and some tnifguidei and deluded citizens of this
country. that the people and the government -were divided
and opposed to each other ; tve fee} ourselves conflrained
by every cons deration of duty to the conjlituted authorities,
to'ourfelves, and to our country, to repel the insinuation
which thus attempts to dijhonor the American character•
Appreciating with due efiimation, the advantages of
neutrality and the blessings of peace, we have beheld with
pleasure and entire fatifaßion your earntjl and repeated
endeavors, and those of your pxedceffor, to preserve this
durable pfdion ; and we have seen with equal regret,
that the anxious advances of our government towards a
reparation of haYtnony with the French republic, htive
been received with contemptuous disregard on their part ;
and at the moment wben negotiation pyght to have produced
redrefsy aggrtffion has been increased, and further depre
dations authorized, under the vain hope of inducing a
compliance with the xoretched demands of avarice and cor
tup tion.
Little does France under{land the American character
ht fifipoftng we arc to be frightened intt) mean compliances,
by. holding up to out view her dependant allies, a degraded
Genoa, or a dismembered Venice. The picture raises jujl
indignation in the minds of freemen, and will Jlimulate
their exertions to avid a ftmilar fate.
With pain do we discover in the infant y of the Trench
government, pretending to be a free republic, endfounded
ttpan the rights of man, the evidence* of an aSiive corrup
tion that would degrade the mojl profligate tyranny—For
tunate for America ! the ocean feparatcs her from this
feat y of contagion, tvhofe influence is deflni&ive of all mo
rals —and long may fhc enjoy under your prudent and wife
adminiflratioh, tha happiness andprofperity which is the
reward of public virtue and integrity.
affuredy Sir, of our grateful approbation of the
eonduß heretofore pursued by you, to preserve peace and
friendfhip with foreign powers ; and our confidence in the
wisdom andpatriotifm of every branch of the government;
and we pledge ourselves as citizens soldiers, frmly to
support those measures which may hereafter be thought ne
cessary Io fecurethc conflitution, freedom and independence
t/je United States.
Signed in behalf of the Officers,
GUNNING BEDFORD, Brig. Gen.
Chrifiana Bridge, Jcftry I, 1798.
The PRESIDENTS ANStVER. >
To the Offices of the Mil it kS of Ntwcafle County, In
th £. State of Delawat e.
Gentlemen,
Your address, which has been prefenlcd io me, in your
behalf, by yonr Senators and Representatives in Congress,
9ssreffcs fentirnentf and resolutions, well becoming the cha
racters of Officers of the Militia, the object of whofein
flilution is, the maintenance andfecurity of the conflitution,
freedom and iedependence of their country.
The unjuf and imperious conduEl *Ef a majority of the
French Dimftory tnwards America, may have been dic
tated by mifreprefente tio>u of their own agents, and of
deluded Americans ; but there is too mucb,reafon to believe
that an unbounded ambition for univ erf al.empire, and an
insatiable avarice of money, united with the delirium of
viSor\, and a fwguine confidence that they art at leaflfor
a time the masters of the have diSlated their infuffier
ab ft arrogance, trampling a Hie on their own constitution,
and the rights of their people ; on the law of nations, and
the faith of treaties.
. It is indeed an awful cons deration, thtrt at a time when
agr.etst part of Europe appears disposed to adopt republi
can governments a corruption should appear, which never
was exhibited before, by the mojl afoiute monarchies, or
torn pleat eft despotisms.
It fhouldfetm that fraud and force, tvefc to be the only
measure of right and wrong :—This system must scon be
changed, or fcicnce, arts , virtue, liberty, and peace, mufl
b; k.-tyiflicf, and a, savage barbarity, be fub/litvted iu their
places.
Africa is of too much importance to the world, for
the purposes of wealth and power, to leave her the fwall
eH hope of escaping, without her own determined exertions,
the contagion of the generaldiftemper
2 "our approbation and hind wifhfs are received with gra
titude > and returned with ftneerity.
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May 5, I 798.
Suite of an J Providence Planta
tions.—ln Getferal AJfetnbly, May Siffion,
A. D. i 7 9 8-
Voted and resolved unanimously, that the
following Address to the President of the
Utrittd States, b: approved and adopted ;
that his Excellency the Governor bp re
queued to sign said Address, iu behalf of
th; 3 General Assembly, and transmit the
fame to,the Senators and R epreferitatives
«f this state in Congress, with a request that
they will present the fame to the President
of the United States-
A true copy : Witness,
Samuel Eddy, Secretary.
,To thi PRESIDENTof the UNITED STATES.
S I R,
THE General Affemblyof the State of !
Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations,
beg leave -to express their cordial approba
tion of yoftr wife and pacific measures in the
attempt to neeociate with the RepublietSf
Fiance. They observe, with singular satis- ;
foftion, that you appear to have been a£tu- !
ated by a sincere desire to do justice to that
Republic, if in any thing (he had been in
jured, to obtain joihc'e for the multiplied
injuries which her cftizeiis had committed
against us, and above all to prefei i Ve >1 Ipface.pface. j
We indulged & hbpe that your overtimes for.j
reconciliation, dilated fey a fpirit"of im- j
partiality and a love of justice, would have }
been heard with candour and treated with i
refpeft. It is therefore with regret and
astonishment we lears, that these unequivo- !
cal proofs of friendfhip l.ave been disregard- I
ed, that our Envoys have not been accred- !
ited, and that the molt liberal advances to \
negociation have been rejefted. You have
pursued peaee with a solicitude correspond- '
ing with the importance of the objedt, ahd j
if it cannot be preserved, the failure ought not!
to be atcributed to any want of liberality or '
justice in the means you have employed.
We ars fatisfied that you could not have
gone further toward the attainment of this
objeft, without abandoning the honour and
dignity of your country.
In the present date of our national affairs,
when a foreign power has loft fight of the
immutable principles of justice and of the
solemn faith of treaties, and cherishes the
unfounded opinion that the people and go
vernment of the United States are divided,
we consider it our sacred duty to declare to
you and to the world, that the constitution
and goveinraent of our country have merited
and obtained our affe&ionate confidence.
' On an occasion so interesting we feel the
most lively pUaQjjy ity^jwng*foiV.rvcrj A.
furance of our confidence jTn your wisdom
and integrity, and of our refpc&ful and per
sonal. attachment. Relying, under God,
upon.the unanimity, courage and virtue of
eur Fellow-Citiiens, we declare our solemn
determination to support the Constitution
and Government of the United States.
By order and in behalf of the General
_ Assembly,
ARTHUR FENNER.
The foregoing Address having been pre
sented to the Prefideat of the United
States, by the Delegates in Congress
from the state of Rhode- Ifiand, —he, on
Friday last, returned the following An
swer:
To his Excellency Arthur FeHner, and the
Honorable the General Assembly of the State
of Rhode-IJland and Providence Planta
tions.
GENTLEMEN,-
THIS unanimous address, from the
JJegiflature of Rhode-Island, comes with
such uUthority, that nothing I could fay in
atlfwer to it, would increase its weight j I
shall therefore confine myfelf to request your
acceptance of an affura'nee that I receive
your declarations of approbation, confidence
and support with great refpedt, and your
refpe&ful and personal attachment with
sincere gratitude.
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May lith, 1798.
FROM SALEM.•
To the President and Congress, of the United
States of America.
PENETRATED with a lively convic
tion of the critical and very interesting fitua-.
tion of our national concerns the
bers, Inhabitants of the town of Saiem, in
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, are
induced to present the following address.
Sensible we are of the impropriety of an
interference from the People with the estab
lished Administration of Government, still
we conceive occasions may arise, when an
expression of the public feiitiment may be
highly important knd beneficial. As such an
one we view the present ; when the Leaders
of a Great Nation are inflexibly pursuing
the most injurious and baneful defignsagainit
us ; and flattering themselves withaprof
pe£t of success, by a separation of the Peo
ple from the government-
It is our disposition, and,, as far as our
influence may extend, it shall be our endea
vour, to disappoint and fruftrate these ex
pectations.
We are fully fatisfied with the measures
taken by the Supreme Executive,for accom
modating the differences subsisting between
the United States and the French Repub
lic; and it 15 with sincere regret we learn
that those measures have been
We still wish for peace, <tnd a restoration
of harmony, with that Republic. But should
they remain implacable ; should we be dri
ven to extremities ; depending supremely
on the patronage of the Most High, we
repofca firm confidence in the wisdom and
fidelity of our Rulers, with the ftcady pa
triotism and combined exertions of our Fal
low Citizens, for maintaining a vigorous
defence. We are determined, at every ha
zard, to support the Government of our
choice : and to those, to whom the Potvers
of Government are entrusted, we will afford
our hearty concurrence and sid, for «arry
ing into effedt such measures as they may
fee fit to adopt ; holding in the highest esti
mation onr Rightsand inteiefts as a free and
independent peopjfe—thofe Rights and In.
teretts for which we have once contended,
and which it is our fettled purpofc never to
itefign.
■ For Sale,
The cargo of the brig American from Laguira,
CONSISTING QF
• Ca'accas Cocoa.
Henry Philips,
No. j 12, Souih fourth sfreot.
aprll 23 §
aprfl »3
oasette*
PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EVENING, Mat 18.
E trafl of a letter from the captain of a
. vessel, in 47 days from Amsterdam, dated
at Boston, May ig. ..
" If you have no late arrivals from Eu
rope, suppose you wish to know how mat
ters were, when I left there—Can inform
you the American Envoys at Paris have at
length, when it was foußd they would no
j longer be trifled with, bten g*ypted 311.au
; dience with the DireSory, or rather their
agent for that purpose appointed ; but nt*
! thing had tranfpiredl In fa& the general
j opinion of our friends in Amsterdam was,
that nothing serious was intended more than
to amuse ihe Americans, to keep their party
I alive in the United State® till they know
! the fate of the great and grand expedition.
; Should they succeed in that, they will com
pleatly unmalk themfclves, so that they will
t have the fame appearance to the Federalists
i and Democrats as they now have to nearly
' all parties in Holland."
[Tht information received by government, by
thts arrival at Boflon, does not corroborate
the above intelligence.J
(AUTHENTIC.)
Etraftx of a letter from Rufus King,
to tht Secretary of State, dated
London, Feb. 26, 1798.
" Annexed you have copies of three notes
which I have lately received from Lord
Grenville ; the firft is an answer to my note
refpefting the proceedings of the vice Ad
miralty Court at St. Domingo. As this
Court was not legally authorized,its proceed
ings are void, and thofe'who have fuffered
from its a&s are referred to the High Court
of Adfpiralty for redress." - •
Ct-Hf Note.
"'Downing Street, 2 °t 1 79®*
'• Lord Grenville prefentshiscompliments
to Mr. King and has the honor to inform
him, in answer to his note of the 3d instant,
that he does not find on enquiry, that any
regular authority has been given for the in
stitution of the Vice Admiralty Court at
St. Domingo, mentioned in that note : It
does not belong to Lord Grenville to anti
cipate the decisions of the regular courts
here in any individual cases. The prpper
resort of such parties as may CQnceive tfiem
felves to be aggrieved by the -proceedings
had in St. Domingo is to the High Court
of Admiralty in this kingdom, where claims
must be given, and the consequent legal
steps taken thereupon ; and there is no
doubt that the judgment of the Court will
be'guided by the fame principles as have al
ready been a&ed upon in cases of a similar
nature."
Extraft of a letter dated Charleston, May I■
" We are pestered with a French privateer
on our coast, which has taken the ship Favo
rite, loaded with Rice, bound toCowes and a
market, out two days; and what other ves
sels we know not. —Wecoinplain of the inat
tention of Congress, as the Collector fays
he has 110 orders to do any thihg for aur de
fence. The "dispatches from our Commis
sioners, have caused a general change in our
sentiments here, refpeding our ancient and
good allies."
CONGRESS.
Yesterday, the Hoflfe of RepresentatiVes of
the United States again went into a committee
on the bill authorizing the Pre'lident ot the
United States to raise' a Provisional Army,
when Mr. R. Wij.! iams moved to strike
out the following words in the third feftion,
viz. " oompany or companies of volunteers,"
for the purpose or inserting " military corps
eftablifbed by lavj in anyftate.' , This motion
occalionedeonliderable debate, and was finally
negatived 50 to 38. General Shepard next
moved to strike out the following words at
the end of the fame feftion, " Provided, such
volunteers ftiall not be liable to do duty in
any place but in the Hate to which theyrefpec
tively belong, or in an adjacent date," which
was carried 60 votes being for it. Some other
amendments of small importance were agreed
to, and then the committee rose and the seve
ral motives which had been agitated in the
committee of the whble were named in the
house (on most of which the Yeas artd Nays
were taken) and the bill was ordered to be
read a third time to-morrow: A call of the
house was made by Mr. Sitg reaVes at half
palt eleven o'clock, in order to nifure a full
attendance at thepaflage of this bill.
On the twenty-sixth of .April Bache publilh
ed in his paper a lift of fifteen veflels at Cape-
Nichola-Mole—Yefterday he published a lift con
taining the names of eleven of the fame veflels j
the preemption is, that the ether four have been
liberated. In this way the number of Britilh
captures is enereafed—the fame vessels have been
publilhed in the fame papers three or four times
over. While scarcely a single t<fl of French pi
racy is noticed by Bache he has the modesty to
call on the editor of this Gazette to republilh the
twice told tale of the above lift at Cape-Ni
cheta Mole !
Both houses of the refpe<Sive legiflaturet of
the States of ConneiSHcut and Khode-Ifland have
unanitrtcufly voted addresses to the legiflaturc
and executive of the United States, assuring
them of their entire confidence and support in
the measures of government for the maintenance
of our sovereignty and independence.
Very little information is to he derived trom
accounts published in the French Gazettes firice
the 4th September last. We are const quently in
the dark refp&fting the internal affairs of France.
A late paper contains a Iketch of a deb:.te in the
council ot'soo of ift and 6th March, on a motion
for an enquiry intothe execution of the lawof the
<th September which is a proscription of all the
emigrants found ip the republic. This motion
wai referred to a committee and a mellage on
the fubjc<2 ordered to he transmitted to the di
rectory—an answer was received from the direc
tory in which this interference with the law is
eenfured—on v hlth the decree for appointißg
thecemmirtee of enquiry was
imoufty repealed ; and several cf the members
apologized for the part they had .taken. So
much fc>r the freedom and independence of ihe
breath councils!
To Edward Robin {on, Captain, • and Di v d
Irving, Fltjl Lieutenant, of tii: late Sans
Culo: te Company of Light Infantry of the
City of Philadelphia.
tINIKKEK, * ' 1
Observing.an addrefain the Gazette
of the United States, last evening, to which
yo'ir signatures are affixed, diile&ed to the
Citizens of Philadelphia, I ttifnlc I have a
right for myfelf to eXjjrefs to yoil, through
the fame vehicle of public information, the
great fatisfaftion which, as one of the Citi
Zens of Philadelphia, I received in perusing
this address The manly and honorable
facrifice" of opinion, the noble candour and
greatness of mind in difa owing an attach
ment once well-founded, though now dif
covertd to be undeserved, whick you have
displayed in thi» public manner,' do you in
calculable honor. J" With yon viewed
the French nation as an*injured people, aijd
my bosom glowed with sympathetic ardour
for the accomplishment of their liberty ;
with you I now view them as the vile min
isters of ambition, and the insolent invaders
of the rights of our dearest country. The
avowal of those former feelings and these
present convidlions as I am conscious it is
virtuous in myfelf, I am happy to honour
and venerate it in another. Permit me,
therefore, tho' personally unknown to you,
to present you my portion of that tribute
of applause which you merit fro»\ the whole
body of onr citizens. It is not through os
tentation that -this declaration is made, it is
nothing but an honest ebullition of tbe feel
ings with whieh'l was strongly affected in
reading your manly address, and permit me
to observe that if all are as willing to make
the fame candid acknowledgment for them
selves, and applaud it in others, our coun
try may yet be great and 'happy, and it may
dill be an honour to be called
One of the Citizens of Philadelphia.
This morning, in the House of Repre
sentatives of the United States, the Bill for
authorizing the President to raise a Provi
sional Army, was carried by a majority of
eleven^ci to 4.o^__
! ft, ■■ l 1 • - '* ''M ..
married] —Last Eveningnby the Rev.
Blfhop White, Mr. Hezekiah'N ILES, of
Wilmington, Delaware, to Miss Anne Og
den, daughter of Mr. William Oeden, of
this city. _
A letter from Lilbon dated April 4th,
from a house of the firft refpeftability in
forms, that the Prince of Peace, prime
minister of Spain, is displaced.
ANSWER, of the Pre fid em to the Address of the
Inhabitants of Glecefter.
Xf the Inhabit ant 1 of Gloeifler in the State of Majfaclufetts.
GENTLEMEN,
Your address to the President, and Congreft,
hag been presented to me by Mti Bartlett, your
Representative.
Your approbation of the conduct of the Presi
dent relative to our foreign relations, particularly
6f the measures adopted, for the honorable adjust
ment of existing difficulties between this country
and the French republic are highly grateful to him,
and the declaration of your utmost confidence, in
the virtue, wisdom and prudence of the Hational
government the sacred avowal of your determina
tion to support the conftitutisn and preserve invio
late the rights and liberties of yojir country at the
rifle of your lives and fortunes, must give universal
fatisfa&ion to all good citizens.
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May 14th, TfijS.
1 ■ 111 11 / *
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHIL ADEtPHI A.
ARRIVED,
Brig Diana, Kirkbritle, Liverpool 55
Came up from the Fort, fctooner Minerva,
Mudie, Tortola.
The Diana failed from Liverpool the 23d of
March, in company with the flip Befkey, Cun
ningham, of and for Baltimore, which vessel
intended to join the Cork conboy. Left at Liver
pool the fb'p Liberty, Bray, to fail for this port
in a few days, and flip Nest or, Rogers, of Port
land, to fail the 1 sth April. The Diana put into
the Lock of Belfaft on the ift of April, but re
mained there only one tide. Captain ivasin
formed, by an officer -who boarded him from a
frigate, that things mere all quiet in Ireland.
April 16, lat. 48, long. 58, spoke the Jhip Caro
line, Motley, out it. days from hence to Liver
pool, all 'well. May 4, lat. 31, 49, long. 61,
spoke the brig Endeavour, out 10 days from New
York to Bordeaux, all viel!.
The Diana mounted 12guns, and firtd a Fed
eral salute oppojite the city.
Baltimore, May 16.
Arrived yesterday, Ship Hope, ofFred
erickfturg. capt. Callahan, 30 days from
St. Übes. The Birmingham Pearce, of
this port was to fail in 3 or 4 days : the Tom
to fail for Boston in a few days ; a brig,
capt. Parker, for ditto; barque
Waterman, of New-York. Sailed in com
pany with the (hip Newport, far Boston,
and brig Elizabeth for do. Lat. 35, 9,
spoke ship Providentia, from St. Übes bound
to Norfolk. May 3, spoke schooner Four
Sifters, from Salem to Martiriique, lat. 35,
38, long. 63, 30.
Lat. 38,50, was brought to by a French,
privateer of 16 guns and 100 men, , called
La Jean Bart, treated with great civility
and by the captain, but his peo
ple took a few fma)l articles which he infill
ed on returning, but capt. C. would not
waft to receive them.
The ship Montezuma, capt. Chafe, from
London, was separated from tshe convc*y in
a gale of wind on the 12 th of April, in lat.
42, 30, Icing. 21. 30. The fleet original,
ly consisted of 63 or 64 fail, but when the
Montezuma left it, it had diminished to 34.
The following vessels belonging to this port,
were left under the prote&ion of the convoy:
—The Hibernia, from Liverpool ; Sidney,
from ditto ; Carlisle, from London ; and
(he Ranger, from Briitol. 1
Mr. James Colhoun, jun. merchant, of
this city, is in the Sidney.
Cabinpaffengers in tht Montezuma :
Mr. John Comegysj merchant, oi this city.
Alexander Fulton, do. of do.
Richard Cooke, of Annapolis, and
George Willis, of L ondnft.
TV ith a number of paffengers.
The paffrngers in the Montezuma confi
d?r thftrnfUves iinJcr a'pr-irticolar ol ligation
trt return their acknowledgements 10 capt.
Chffe, for the Hurnsne and polite attentKj 1
thpy have experienced from him dtring tti«
paffagc.
■fir A ftawd meeting of the m merican Hrtioi *•
piucal Society will be held at thtir hall at 6 e'clocla
this evtiling may 18.
VOLUNTEER GREENS.
Gentlemen of the Troop are particu
-L larly r-quefted to meet at the house of
Barnabas McSnane, in Third flreet, to morrow
evening at 7 o'clock —1 number of new mem*
bets will be balloted for.
John Morrell, Captain
may 18 _
Macpherfon's Blues.
ANUMBEK of the Members of this Corp»,
tiktnj; -into view the critical situation qf
their coisMry, propofa to their brother liil 'iers
to meet at Mr. Dirtwoody's, in Market-it feet,
on Monday next, at j o'clock, t. M.
may 18
Madras and Ventapaulenl
' HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries,
of the rteweft and moll approv«d pattern*, entitled
to the drawback, juil received,
AN® TO* SAT.E BV
Alex. J. Miller & Co.
' No. 04, South Frjnt itrcet.
may 18. 5
Ihe Sub/cribers
HAVE f OR SALE,
Six Tons of Cordage,
ASSORTED.
Two hundred weight of firft fort Tfinglafj.
Philips, Cramond its Co.
may t8 jt
WAN I'ED,
IN A PtIASINT StLIf»TIOM,
WITHIN a few miles ofTewu (lor B Lady,late*
ly from nd) Board and l.odg : ng. In a quiet
reputable family—-would engage for siva at fix
months, and give very little trouble A tine di
rected to J. S. atid left at th« Printing Office will
be attended to immediately.
may 18 *3l
This Day Puhlifhcd;
By J. 0 n m r 0d ,
» No. 41, Chefnut»ftreet, (price 15 cents).
A9BSMOH JVcaohed in Ghrift CHwrch and
St. Peter's, Philadelphia; on Wedncfday
May 9, 1798, being the da, appointed by
the President as a day of fading, humiliation
and prayers throughout the United States of
N®rth America. By James Abercrombie, a. m.
one of the assistant ministers of Christ Church
and St. Peter's.
*A fermoa delivered by the Re». Doc.
Green, on the fame occasion, will be publiihed
on Monday next. * -•
may 18
Country Refldence.
A FAMILY who live Six Miles from the City,
wife to receive two or three genteel boaid
ers. The House is handfomifly lurnifhed; the
Gardens, Moadows and Lawn are beautifully laid
out, and well '.locked with the cheiceft Fruit.
There are several Muficil Internments, amongst
which is a moll excellent patent Piano Forte. The
Family have a handfoire Coach, which may be at
the service of the whole.
The Coach House and 6tahle» are mofl excellent
—the Water good-—and the Air unequalled in the
environs of the l'own.
For particulars enquire at the office of thisGa*
zette. <kf
may 16.
FOk SALE, " "
A Black Man,
WHO has five years and a half to ferire, is *
good coachman, an excellent waiter, and
has been accustomed so marketing for a family—
his age about thirty two years. For fa thef parti
culars, apply at the office cf this Gazatte.
may 15. £
FOR SALE,
About 660 boxes of fine Spanish
GUN POWDEK,
Containing J »o lbs. each.
Apply at No. 13, corner of Arch and Front flreets,
may 1 a. j IW
Military Academy.
THE Public are moll rd'pefl fully informed,
that a Military Academy is opened in the
Northern Liberties in the house formerly belong
ing to John Matters, esq. between the German-
I Town and Frankfort roads, North Second
ftreet continued
Br JOHN BARBER,
Late of the 6och British regjment of Foot and
assistant Engineer to the Army ailing in the
Weft-Indies.
Where gentlemen will be tauj lit th<- manual
Exetcife and made completely acquainted with
all the duties of
ficers and private soldiers in camp, garHfon and
Quarters j the forms of regimental and field re
turns, detachments, refters &c. &c alf.> the
art drawing plans, fetflions and geometrical
elevations, the elements of tactics, gunnery and
fortification.—A fubfeription lift is left at the
bar of the City-Tavern, where the terms and
the outlines of the propnfed regulations may be
seen. The situation is extremely wel) adapted
to the undertaking and eight acres of ground are
set apart for the purpose.
. W. Gentlemen from the Conntry boarded
in the house if required.
mj y IO - div»2awfm
Furniftied Chambers— 1 o Let!
I r pHOSE Gentlemen, Members of Congress and
I X others, wilhing to engage Cot the neat session
of Congress, Chambers, fnrniihed in a modern
ftyld, and in a very pl S afant and central part of
the city, may hear of them by applying at the
office of this Gazette. eetw mivio.
WANTED,
APPROVED BILLS on Amflerdam—.for which
cafli will be given at the rate ol thirty seven c*iua
per guilder. Enquire o! the Cafhitr of the Bank
of the United States. § apriln.
OX BE£F~
ICO Barrels ) of Beef of bad quality, pur
5° half Barrels $ up with earefor long voyages,
100 Barreta of Connecticut Pork,
jo Barrels of Connetflic'it Tongues.
WINES.
3S Pipes cf Madeira Wine
30 Pipes of Port
, 30 half casks of Sherry
,jo Casks of Lisbon
300 Cases of French Claret, of excellent
quality.
800 Barrels of Scraped FLOUR,
100 Barrels of Condemned, and
so Boxes of best Durham Muflar j.
For Sale by
John Skyrin,
bar.dtribtrgtr's IVharj.
'may e,United States, 'I
Pennsylvania DijlriS. J
T N pursuance ol a writ to me direded from the
Honorable Richard Peters, Efq Judge of the
DidrvA Court of the United States, !n and for
*he Pennsylvania Diflrid, will be expofecJ to pub- •
li». sale at the Merchants* Coffe«-Heufe in the City
•t Philadelphia on Wcdnefday the 23d day of May
iuftant, at ? o'clock in the evening,
jTIII schoonfr
A Fast failing built vfflTel, not
» 'LiFlUffrti on ._ y Car buithen 63
tons, and can be sent to sea with a trifling expence;
•with all and lingular the Tackle, Apparel and Fur
niture, a» they now are—- The said Schooner hav
ing been libelled, prosecuted againfl and condemn
ed for the payment o r ttiariners wages, See.
WILLIAM NICHOLS, MarJhaL
Marftd's Office,">
May 16, 1798. /
B. Ihe inventory may te fetnat my office.
Sale of Furniture.
ON Monday next, the lift of May at nine
o'clock in the morning at No. 19 South
Foanh-flreet, between Chcfnut and Market
flreets, will be fold a large alfortment of
Household isf Kitchen Furniture.
Consisting of mahogany square and round end
dining tables—breakfaft and ca>-d tables—fofas
and mahogany chairs—windsor chairs with and
without (luffed seats—bureaus—chest of draw
ers—mahogany crib and cradle—Bureau with
fecretarv drawer and wardrobe—de(k and book
case—two easy chairs—gilt and plain looking
glaffes—pi<flures—brafs andirons—an excellent
roafling jack with weights and spits complete.
With a variety of othe articles nearly new and
in good preservation ; /he property of two fam
ilies about to remove from this city.
CONNELLY is} Co. auß'toneers.
may t6 dts
Collectors Office,
Philadelphia, Mat 15, 1795.
FOR SALE AT PUBLIC AUCTION,
At'the Cufcom House, on Fkidat, the fifteenth
of June, 1798, the following Merchandize,
which remain in the Cuflom House Stores more
than nine months, unclaimed by the owners or
consignees thereof.
(X H) eight half faggots of Steel
(T D) soi one bale Girihweb
(T L) a quantity of Steel
one cafe Lamps
CftC one cafe Bobbin
(VV) one small box Medicine
AB 203 one mdtted cafeX)u£ch BodU* *
I & C «ne keg Herrings
(\V) one small box of samples of Buttons
I a 3 three baks Girthweb
iV H] tos one ditto ditto
(N] too one ditto ditto
(No mark) eight jars Olives
(ditto) ot»e bundle Slates
[I. S] one fraall lie* Lochs dts
—\VOiTd fbld7sTCaih,
At eight o'clock dn Evening of MONDAY
the eleventh day of jurit next, at the M«r
chants' Coffee Koufe. in Philadelphia, if
not previously difpotcd of at pri- / j
vate falei r
Tar FOLLOWING TRACTS OF
Valuable patented LANDj
In the county of Glynn, in the (late of Georgia,
and the counties of Bath and Randolph in the ;
state of Virginia, , \
7000 acres at the head of St. Simon's Soutld and
confluence of Turtle and Alatamaha rivers, ad
joining the common J of the town of Brunfwick.
41000 acres 011 the Great Satilla and on the head
waters of the Little Satilla, adjoining lands of
Wrn M'lntolh, JohnHowell, &FerdinandO'Neal.
15000 acres r.n Great Satilla, aojoining lands of
Freeman Lewis and John Howell.
44000 acre« in Bath county, on both (ides of
Green Briar Rivtr, adjoining lands ol Jaceb War
rick, Daniel M'Cullum and |ohn Dilley, including
3000 acres of prior futveys. j
410C0 acres in Bath county, on the ealt fide of
Cowpaflure River, and on both fides of the wag
gon road leading from the warm fpringsto Staun
ton, including jooo acres of prior surveys
40000 acres in the county of Randolph, on Bu
chanan River, adjoining lands of Thomas Wilson,
and including,4sßß acres prior surveys.
30000 acres in Bath county, on the east fide of j
Cowpaflure River, on the waters of said river,and
ol Calfpalture River, adjoining labds of Joseph
Grubb, and incluping 5000 acres prior surveys.
The Georgia lands will be fold in traits ol one
thousand acres each, the others in the quantities
an i trails abov - described.
Persons delirous to examine the titles and drafts
of the above mentioned land, will call for that
purpefe on Benjamin R. Morpav, at No. 4t,
Arch flreet ; propufals of purchase may be made
to either »f the fubferibers.
T. FITZIMONS,
No. —, Chefnut (Ireet.
B. R.MORGAN,
No. 41, Arch (Ireet.
JEREMIAH PARKER,
No. 9, North Eighth (Ireet.
may 14- dt *
advertisement.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, that by virtue
of a Decree of the Chancellor, will be fold
at Public Auction, at Snonvhill, Maryland, on
the firft Friday in June next, part of a traift of
Land called STRUGGLE, lying in Worcester coun
ty, and all the reft of the Real Eflate of Jolhua
Townfend, deceased, for the payment of his debts.
There will be given nine tponths credit for the one
half of the purchase money, and fifteen months
credit for the other half; the purchaser or purcha
sers giving bond with security (or the fame, on in
terett, from the day of sale —All creditors of the
fiid Jolhua Townfend are also agiin notified to
produce their claims, with the vouchers thereof,
to the Chancellor, within fix months from the lid
day of December lad, that being the day of the
firft fi!e w[LLIAM WHITTINGTON, Traflee.
may 14-
Real Ettate tor Sale.
AT the Merchant's Coffee House on Monday
evening the twenty-firJl inflact, will be
fold uurfuant to an order form the Orphan's
Court. A three story Brick House, twenty-four
feet front on Grot Dock-street and forty-two
feet deep ; together with the Lot twemy foirr
feet by eighty-two feet deep, now in the tenure
of Edward Pole, being part of the eflate late of
llev. Gilbert T.Snowden deceased. Theterms^
■wiH be made known at the time of Sato, by
Isaac Snowden, Admniftrator.
Edward Pole, Au&ioneer.
» diodeots
may 3.
JTTndING,
From on board the Ship Sally, from
Calcutta,
AND SO* SALE 5V THE SC3SC *1 BI » ,
1600 bags prime Sugar,
800 do. Ginger
30 bales low priced piece Goods.
John Miller, Jun.
v '§
n arch 3 1 '
I treasury department,
MARCH r, 1798-
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN pursuance of the Ad of C«igrefs paded on the fccth day of July ,h
---. nirety-fcven, entitled "An Aft laying dutie. on Stamped Vellum,
A a passed on the fifteenth day of Dumber, one thousand seven hundred and n^ty- f «»e^
«An Ail to postpone for a limited time the commencement of the duties imp ~ y
tied "A. A3 laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper-, that and after the
firft day of Jmly enftiing, the several Stamped Duties b«reafterenumerated, will be le c.
ted throughout tiic United States.
For every (kin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or (hect or piece of Paper, upon which (hall be
written or printed any or either of the iuilrumenti ar writings I olio wing to *'t • CtJ •| Mh
Any Certificate of Naturalization, - - " " ' ,
Any Licence to pratfice.or Certificate of the admission, enrolment er regiltryot
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Prodlor, in any Court of the
United States, - • - * .:" rT .. , .. 10 .
Provided, that | Certificate in any one of tbe Courts of tie United btite»
for one of theTaid Office., (han so far at relates to the payment of the
dotyafotefaid, be a fufficient admission in altthe Courts of the United
States, fpr each and qvery of the laid offices. '■
Any Grant «ftrttcr» Patent, under the seal or authority of the united states
(except for. Wads granted for military services) - . - *
Any exemplification or certified copy of any such grant or letters patent, (ex- (
e'ept for sand» granted for military services) . - - a
Any Charter-Party, Bottomry, or Refpondentia Bond, - - 1
Any Receipt or discharge for or on accountof anyLegacyleftby any• WiH or 9-
ther testamentary inflrutnent, or for any (hare or part oi a perlor.4le.tate di
vided by force of any statute of diftrfbuti*ns, other than to the Wlte » , - h ' l "
dren or Grand Children of the person deceased, the amount whereof (hall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and (hall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, - • " " , 4 -*
When the amount thereof (hall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
(I*ll not exceed five hundred dollars, - "
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional lum of I
Any Policy of Insurance or inftrament in nature thereof, on any lhip, vessel or
goods insured from one diftri<sl to another in the United States, 2 5
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which
Insurance is made (hall not exceed five hundred dollars, -
When the furn insured (hall exceed frve hundred dollars, " 1
Any Exemplification, of what nature soever, that (hall pass the seal of any
Court, other than such as it*may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furnifh for the use of the United States or some particular date, - 1°
Any Rond, bill single or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promillory
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or with the United' States or any state, or for their
uferefpeflively, - - - - "
If above twenty dollars and not 'exceeding one hundred dollars,
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars,
If above five buudted dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, S°
And if above one thousand dollars, - - - j
Provided, that if any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or notes (ball be ftibjeil to only two fifth parti of the duty
aforefaid —viz. - - " v
If'above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 4
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred iolUi 9> io j .
If above fiv# hundred dollaVs and pot exceeding one thousand - | ' l>
If above one flflllirsj " . , « i *
JL. y Nfi.es ifined bv the banks now eflablilhed, or that may hereafter be estab
lished within the United States, other than the notes of such of the laid D»nX»
as (hall agree to an annual composition', of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banfcs, to their Stockholders refpcAively, according to ( .
the following scale. -
On all note 3 not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - t
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, 50
On all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - - * 1
On all notes above five hundred dollars, - 4
Any Protest 00 other Notarial afl, - - " "
Any Letter of Attorney, exqept for an invalid penfios, or to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
performed in the late war, - - - *J
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for less than
five hundred dollars, - - - " • 1
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, a
For more than two thousand dollars, ... 3
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
j If from one di(h-i<st to another diftria of the United States, not being in the
fame State, ...» 10
! If from the United States to any foreign port or place, • - 15
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effeifls, made in-any
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
rent or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process officer,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share in any Insurance Company, of a (hare in the Bank of
the United States, or of any State or other Bank,
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - . 10
If above one hundred dollars, - • * *5
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
H.
The diitiesifflrelaid will be colle&ed and received by the Supervisors, Infpeflors aud other Officers
j of Infpeilion, in tile several Diftriifts, Surveys and Divisions of the United States, and by such other
persons as (hall from £• time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diftri&s for
1 thatpurpofe.
The Supervisors of the federal Diftri&s will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and as soon as
may be praflicable, mark 6r (lamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rsttes of duties before enumerated, on payment of the said duties ; Or
(lamped vellum, parchment and paper n.ay at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rates prescribed by la\V, by application to any Supervilor, InfpcSor, Officer of Infpedien,
or other person appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diftrids
GIVEN under my Haud, at Philadelphia
the day and year abyvemcnt'voned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secretary of the Treasury.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
March 30th. 1798.
Public Notice is hereby given, .
THAT by an ail ef Congrcfs palled 011 the
of March, 1798, the following
alterations and amendments have been made to
the ajft passed on the 6th day of July 1797, en
titled "An ail laying duties on stamped vel
" lum, parchment aßd paper."
The stamp duties on debentures or certifi
cates for the drawback of Customs er duties on
Imports are repealed.
A discount at the rate of seven and one half
per Centum, will be allowed by the Supervisors
or Infpeflors refpeilively, to any persons other
than Officers of the Revenue, who may pur
chase at one time or procure to be stamped, any '
quantities of Vellum, Parchment cr Paper, upon
which the duties (hall amount ta Ten Dol
lars or upwards.
111.
Stamped Paper, wjill be provided, and fold at 1
the rates prescribed.by law, without any addi
tional charge or on account of the
price of Paper ; but for stamped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional price will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each (kin of Parch
ment, or Two Hundred Cents for each (kin of
Vellum of medium size, which may be fumifli
ed at the expense of the United States and pro.
portionally for any lesser quantity.
Given under my hand, at Philadelphia, the
day andyetr abovementioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary' of the Treasury.
To be Let,
(And pufleflion given on the id of May) '
A genteel three story brick House,
11 fectTront, and 40 feet deep, with back buildings
and (libles.at present in-the teirure of Major J *ck
son. Enquire at 187 South Third ftrect.
April ». §
JUST P UB LISHED,
AND FOR SALE AT THIS OFFICE,
f Price 25 Centi)
Reflexions on Monroe's View
or rue conduct or Ths executi?e,
Aspublithed in the
GAZETTE of »he UNITED STATE 3,
„ Under the fignaturo of
scipio,
In 1 Mch the Commercial Warfare of France is traced
to thi Frcnch Faction in thi- Country, 8! -tt Source,
and the Motivet oj Oppftion, c.
TO BE SOLD, by
John Nixon Ssf Co.
A quantity of very excellent LOGW OOD
NOW LANDING AT THEIR WHARF.
may 10. jawtf
Frefti Teas.
JuJt Imported, in the jh'tp Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sale, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Co«n;>ting House, No. j4, Chefnut-ftreet,
AND BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At hit Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea, Souchong, Hyson, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, aliened; black and coloured Lute
strings and Sattins, NaHkeens, Cassia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
whale-bone flicks.
Tbey have also For Sale,
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchiefs,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugar ir boxes,
march 8. $
Now Opening,
At Wi l l 1 4,m M'La w s Saddle Manufactory,
No. 72, Chefnut Street,
A general assortment of Horseman's
Pistols, dire£l from the Manufafturers in London.
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holsters, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartouch Boxes, Va
lices, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
April 9 dtf
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the iOth
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wu, BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, N0.64, South Second-street
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottary, at 7en
Dollari, where check books are kept lor register
ing and examining in these, the City of WaQiing
ton, No. Il.anl Pattsrfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in mod of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N.B. Thebafinefsof a Bkokir, inbuyingand
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcoißt«.g Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, &c. &c. will be duty attended to,
ty WM. BLACKBURN.
November 15. £
The following Certificates of ]
funded debt gf the vy [ rnD f' rA l E J t
OTANDiNG on th« Books of the tteafurj,
S forwarded foe. London by tfis fh>p Wil ' J ™
Ptnft° Captain Jofiah. which
and the Certificates supposed to be lo^> v ' z f
1,64 Bj. Deferred debt, in the name of Rev.
Edward Giddy, of Thrcdrea, in Cornwall
Great Britain, dated JjJne », 1 797-
go».°: IT** per Cent. Stock .am. ef
Edward Home, of Bev» mount, Hants Great
Britain, dated May JO, *797* , w;n.
3610. Co. Deferred Debt, in the name of Will
iam Manning, of.Ormlby.m tfccountyof Nor
folk, in England, jiated July 10, 1797-
Three per Cent. Stock, in the name
of jk-nct MatheJ, of Upper Seymour street,
London, Widow, dated O&ober 31 1797- N °-
ForW renewal' of the above Cert ' fi " f
plication m intended to be made at the kid office of
Jh e Treasury of the United Statw,—and all per
font coiKCfn«d arcdefired to take notice.
ALSO —IN THE SAME VESSEL,
Fifteen (hare. Stockof the Bankof U»ited<3tates in
thename of William Manning,of Ormfby, coun
ty of Norfolk, England, viz. Three Certificates
for five (hares each, dated January I, 1797- .
No. 15981, 25983, 25984- . .
For the renewal of w'lich,application is meant to
be made to the said Bank of the Urfited States,—
and all persons concerned therein are desired to
take not.ee. yAUGHAN .
Philadelphia, may 4. i 6w
The fallowing Certificates of Shares
IN the North American Land Company, Handing
on the Books of said Company in the name of
Dan'el Lifter, of Hackney, in the county of Mid
dlefcx, England—viz. No. 1151, representing
1309610 13105, fen (hares—No. *ls0 —13066 to
13075, tea (hares—No. to 13065,
ten (bares—No. 2148—11509 to 11518, ten (hares
No. 2147 —11471 to 11480 —Amounting to
Forty Shares, were forwarded for London by the
(hip Wiltia-n Pern," which having been captured,
said certificates are supposed to be loll; for the re
newal of which, applicajion will be made to the
Board of the said company.
Daniel Neal Lifter.
may I *d6w
JUST RECEIVED,
FROM ro R T-AU-1' RIN CE,
And FOR SjiLE, by $c SVBSCRJCMRS, i
- hhda.
46 tierces do.
100 barrels do.
100 bags do
110 hog (heads of Muscovado Sugar
80 barrels of do.
40 hog(head# of Molasses
4 bales of Cotton
4 hoglheade of Cocoa
WILLINGS y FRANCIS,
Penn-ftreet.
march 11.
FOR SALE,
by the subscribers, No. 21, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Con ftjling of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
CofTaet Punjum Cloths
Sanahi Guzzey do.
Humhums Charconna Dorca
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls
Mamoodys Checks
Mahaeagonges Pat-na Hkfs.
Ginghams Mnlmul do.
Guzzenas Bandannoes
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcoes Choppa Komals
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie llomals Persians of various col.
Meek Pulicats
»oo tons SUGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willings & Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are npw open to sale at that
commodious store the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-streets.
Also—A few Bales of Madrafs Hkfs. of ele
gant patterns and best colours.
February 8. dtf
LANDING,
Frem onboard the (hip Elizabeth, captain Paiflie,
from Batavia,
And FOR SALE by the Subscriber,
400,000 wt. Java COFFEE
300 canisters SUGAR, of a superior quality
ALSO,
A quantity of SAPAN WOOD
JOHN MILLER, jus.
April 17. ; §_
Thomas & Joshua Fisher,
HAVE FOR SALE,
At No. 5, Docls-ftreet, near the Drawbridge,
China ware nankeen dining fctts, tea and coifec
cups and saucers
Nankeens, black fattins and tafiities
Pongem cloths, chop pah romalh.and bandannoes
China and Englifii umbrellas.
Together with a general ajfortmenl of European
■Goods— among which are
Scots thread in boxes
6d. Bd. lod. lid and 2od. nails
Shot—T. Crowley steel, Spanish brown and white
lead
F.Hglilh scythes 42 to 50 inches
ALSO,
Hi barrellsof kiln dryed Indian corn meal.
A commodious StoreinDock-ftreet,
No. 7, to be let, three stories high, suitable for
any business.
4th mo. sth §tf
JUST RECEIVED.
And for sale by W.Young, corner of Second
and Chefnut-ftreet, M. Carey 118 High-ft'reet
T. Dobfon, 4i South Second-ilreet and the
Boekftllers generally,
(Price 5-Bth» of a Dollar.)
BEACON HILL,
A Local Poem, hlftoric and deforiptive 5
By a Lady of Bojlon.
ANALYSIS OP BOOK I.
Allusion to the furrouudingjProfpeil—lnvocation
to the River and sylvan Deities—to the Historic
Mufe—Ksion discarded—Dedication to Wa(b
ington—The A&ion opcasat the Retreat of the
Columbians from Bunker's Hill—General Howe
—The Memory of his Brother—Death of War
ren—Perfonification of Fortune and Fame
Walhington at Mount Vernon—called to the
chief Comroaud—Formation of tbs Columbian
Camp at Cambridge—Natural, moral, or poli
tical History of the several States—Their com
manding Officers—Siege of Bofton—lts Suffer
ings—Negotiation lor the fife Retreat of the
Britilh Army—Us Departure—Appointment of
Congress—Declaration of Independence—Cha
racter of the Columbian Soldies—The Poet's
prophetic Apoiirophe to the Frogrefs of Free
dom rhrough«ut the World,
march «. -
yirsr arrived>
la the brigGayofo,eapt. Bingham,from St.Martiw
A quantity of SALT,
of an exccellent quality
A few groce Porter Bottles, new
And twenty eaflcs Vinegar
Andthefaid
BRIG,
Also, FOR SALE,
Enquire of
Jehf Hollingjivorth & Co.
No. 11, Little Water street, South,
april 10. §
for sale.
i 95 toe;i white ? Havannah Sugar
107 do. brown J 0
»oo Hides
Will be ladled to-morrow, at Willmgsand Fran
ce's wharf, from on board the brig Active, Will
jam Williams, matter. . /
said Brigforfale,
And may take in immedi
«3BSWfeSately after discharged.
Apply to
Jehu Hollingfivorth & Co.
march 30. >_ 5
"" toHbe sold,
40,959 acrcS Land.
IN Greene County, Commonwealth of Pennsyl
vania-, on the waters of Filh and Wheeling
Creeks and Ten Mile Run.
iThefe Lands are fertile and well timbered, and
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten years aeo for
6ve ftillings per arre ; patented early ill 1787, e
xcept 3700 acres, which were patentsd in 1791;
part of them were surveyed in 1783. The tra&
is between the Ohio and Monongshela, very con
yenient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of Walhington, from 14 to 16 frem the
village of Greeneiburgh and Wheeling.
On payment of one lourth of thepurchafe mo
ney, a reasonable credit will be given for the rett
<j ue# 1 Enquire of the Printer,
april 11. 5
TO BE SOLD, ~~
26,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of New York, between tfcf northern
bounds of Pennfylvama and the Safquehaniw
now, or late in the townihips of Hamden and
Warren and
i veryjt«ftrabla oj j' A for any man wLcrmwm*
to in reft his money to advantage
On payment of one third of the purchase mo
ney, a reasonable credit will e given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer.
April il. ?
Military Colours.
At C. GULLAGER's
Portrait and Ornamental Painting Rooms,
No. 50, South Fourth, next to Chefaut street.
oppoiite the Friends' Meeting.
PAINTING on silks for Military and other or
namental purposes (in a manner peculiar to
himfelf) durable, not to be injured by the weather,
which for elegance of design, truth and beauty of
colouring, neatness and malierly execution, Jias
not been squalled by George Rutter and Co.
FLAGS and DRUMS
Furnished with all poflible dispatch, on the most
reasonable terms.
Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck
ets, Cornices, &c. &c. executed in stile (not that
fupcrb stile of modern ilegance peculiar to G. R.)
but in a workman like manner, peculiar to an ar
tist mailer of hi? proieflion.
Mr. Gullager, from a number of year's expe
rience in Europe and this country, flitters himfelf
that profeflional talents, and reason
able demands, will meet the entire approbation of
those gentlemen who wi'l please to c. il at his Paint'
ng Rooms, §6w may jv
NOTICE.
P. S. Gentlemen in town and
country, wishing for a supply of Colours and
Drums, painted in a masterly manner, will no
doubt feel themfelve* obliged for the kind caw ion
given by George Rutter and Co. not to trust felf
flattering advertisement?, but examine tbe work
executed by both parties One view will fatil
fy them where the superiority lies, —save thefpoil
ing of good silks by George Rutter's pencil—and
discover the requisites for the talent*
of Henry Frailey, at Germantown. may 10.
Military Colours,
PAINTED ON SILK— bt
George Rutter Co.
Portrait and Ornamental Painters,
IN a stile which will endure the bardlhips of the
weather without injury, and which for newneft
and cxaditude of colouring cannot be surpassed in
this city.
FLAGS and DRUMS
Furniihed with difpattji, en the moli pioderate
terras.
Portraits, Ornamental Paintings, Signs,
fire-bucket», £cc. accomplished in that superb stile
of modern eftgafiW, -whreh, Mr. Rn»tcr fledga*
himfelf from 20 years experience iu this city will
meet the entire approbation of hij friends and the
public.
In the" Military Line,
A variety of specimen's may be seen at their
Painting Room, Norris'sCourt, back of the Naw
Library. *
may 3 d6w
NOTICE.
HAVING observed an advertifemcrt of C.
Gullager, in terms derogatory of our pro
feffional abilities, we have to request the public
not to be imposed upon by foreign artists ; but to
decide upon the naents* of each by a comparison ot
the work executed by both, as it is a mode almost
universally adopted by tfoem to invalidate the ta«*
lents of eftablilhed artists with a view of
ing the public, and engrofling that bufinef* wh»c
their profeflional knowledge in ro wife entitles
them to. Well knowing that public opinion mult
govern, we flatter ourselves that the work execut
ed by us will convince them of our great luperio
rity over Mr. Gullager in evefy branch cf por
trait ansi ornamental painting, andlhew thenect »
fity of judging for themselves.
N. B. In future no attention will be paid to ihs
felf-flattering advertisements of Mr G.
Any person wifning a supply of FLAGS «nd
DRUMS wi!l please apply to Geo. Rutter ami
Co. Norrii Court, or Hemry Frailbv, Gerni«-
town. §6w . may
—— *
Ross isf SmsoNy
HAVE FO* SALE,
22 bales superior Madrafs blue Cloths
Carolina Indigo, firfl quality
A few bales Baf'.as Colfaes, and a quantity 01
Bengal COTTON
. Bengal SUGAR, in bags and box"
Jamaica and") RUM
Bengal J .
april sc