7^'
o f ttjc
By John Ward Fenno, N°- 119 Chefnut Street.
hvMBE* »93»0 PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 26, 1798. rVaiu*£ XI\T.
| . _ _
o3- The price tf tBIs Gazette it
Eight dollars per annum to Subscri
bers rejiding in the city of Philadel
phia. All others pay one dollar ad
ditional, for enclojing and direMnp <
andunlefs fomeperfnn in this city will
become answerable for the fubfUip
tien, it mu/i be paid Six Months in f
advance. ,
For Sale, I
rat iHirt, i,
Jfe i
<|||L PENNSYLVANIA, [
BURTHEN about three hundred f
tZES>»ilt of the bed material. and well found £
-may be fcnt to hi at a small expence. The
charailc. of thefc ships are Co well known, that a
particular description of them is deemed «nnc
eeffary. For terms apply to
GURNEY tf SMITH.
no*. 1
" ~ For Sale, ]
PACKET,
Hulinos Cowp*rthwait, Matter,
BURTHEN abeut J,5 00 barrels, * £°* ron 8
Ship—hu excellent accommodationsfor P»^ <
may be sent to sea with small expence. She is lay |
"g*Mifflin', wharf. For further particular en
quire of
Isaac Harvey, jun, or
Smith & Ridgway.
November 16 . ■
~FOR SALE,
PERSEVERANCE,
Jamil William/on, master.
Tuft arrived from St Domingo, built in Phi
ladelphia, rf live Oak and Cedar, copper (heath
«d in London, bur then 3*o tons mounting 16
gum and may be prepared for sea in a few days,
With her Cargo,
Now on Board,
eoNSiSTiNO or
1,1 Hogsheads and S o barrels Sugar
•t0,060 Weight of prime Coffee in hhds. bbls
u and bags tf
jlP»nch«ons of Jamaica Rum.
ALSO,
THE BRIO
J®£k jack,
R. WiBtiAMSON, Majter.
go, W4ti» rxrgn. of
43 hogsheads of Sugar,
And 40,000 weight of pritpe Coffee.
likewise,
AMIABLE MATILDA,
MOUNTING II Guns, burthen
tkoufand two huudred barrels of
Flour, and in 30mpleat order.—Apply to
Thomas tf John Ketland.
November 13 < 1
Elliston & John Perot, j
Have for Sale, at
No. 41, North Water-Street,
Muscovado Sugar Bandana Handkerchief.
Copper in (beets St nails Madcjrl wine
Copper Ore Soa , Leather jnd
A few barrels Shad and
SLwg. Htrrin «'
Also For Sale,
the sloop
BERMUDA-PACKET,
mSHMCL. Burthen 108 tons--Bermu
da built, fails remarkably faft and i. well found.
Mov 8 w&fjw
For Sale.
' I 'HE Subscriber, intending to decline the
J. DRUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the
whole Stock of
Drugs and Medicines, Instruments,
The (hop is elegant, commodious, and fuffici
ently known for thr extensive business done in the
whnlefale and retail line ; the situation equal to
any in the city,, being at the coiner of Walnut and
Second ftrcets. The whole, or any part of the
Stock, will bo fold, as will best suit the purchaser.
Th« terms may be known, by applying to
JAMES MOORE, jun.
Wlto hat Far Sale,
Well calculated (or the river trade—
-1 he Peggy, about 3otonsburthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably
stout, of an easy draught «f water, rigging in
good order.
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
well, and in complete order for the lumber business
C 3* All persons indebted to the late firm
Is* Baldwin, IV. B■ Goldtbioait, Gola
tlvrait ts* M—ri, or the fubferiber, are earnestly
*e<juefted t« make ipeedy payment to
JAMES MOORE, JBN.
{
To be Sold,
BT PUB LIC VENDUE,
On Friday next, the-23d instant, at Six
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchant's
Coffee House in Second street, agreeably
to inventory,
THE BRIG
ABIGAIL,
•JBBSjSyjS.'As (he now lies at Mr. Weil's
Wharf—Burthen abont 1400 barrel..
The condition, will be made knowa at the time
and place of sale.
November 19 jtmvf&f
-
Ship Broker's Office, I
And ComttiiJJton Store,
No. 1:9, South hoki Strfft,
Next door to »h* Cuftout Hoofs.
THE Subscriber, encouragedDy the advice of
hi. friends, offers his-fervice to the public
as a Ship and Insurance Broker. He propos
es to buy and fell veflels and every thing relat
ing thereto—alfift matters of vessels and others
in entering and clearing at the Custom-House,
procuring and (hipping freight, fettling Insur
ance and all other mercantile accounts, and
have on hand the oeceffary Blanks and Stamps.
Papers in foreign languages translated, and in- (
formation given in general mercantile matters.
—From a knowledge gained by long experience ■
of every branch of business he hopes to be ufe
ful to those who please to favor him with their '
commands. SAMUEL EMERY. 1
nevember 19 $
FOR BREMEN,
r r—KS. the ship
TRITON,
SHE is row loading, and will cer- "
tainly fail in Ten Days.—For freight
or paffaee apply to
Pratt b* Kintzing.
WHO HATE FOR SALE,
Ticklenburghs Checks
Oznabrig. Stripes
Hessians Slippers
Brown roll. CambVicks
Coffee bag. Twine
Platillas Glass tumbler.
Bri/tanias PortWe
Eflopailles Window glass
Creas a la Morlaix Brimstone
Bielefield linneu Mahogany
Dowlas Red crust cheefu, &c.&c.
Patterbornes
ALSO
For Freight or Charter,
e Jf-2r~ the Bremen tuir
Apply as abovs
nav. 11 diot
BOSTON BEEF,
too Barrels in Shipping Order.
FOR SALE BY
JOHN SKrRIN,
No. 96, Aortb Frotu-Jlreet.
Who wants to Charter,
A GOOD STOUT; VESSEL,
Of about 300 Tom burthen.
HAS ALSO FOR SAU,
40 Pijie« of Madeira Winc. j y<an old.
nov »r m4t
FOR WILMINGTON,
Nio rth*Carolina;
THE SH I F
COMMERCE,
raV. Captain Wood,
WILL take in freight on very mo-
terms, and fail about the
i;th instant. Apply to the Captain on board at
Latimet's wharf, or <
Willings & Francis,
Penn Street,
november 16 5
For~SALE or CHARTER,
**** THE SHJP
MOLLY,
Burthen 4100 barrels of Flour,
Philadelphia built, well found
an d fitted, and may be ready
to receive a cargo in a few day*—(he is pierced
18 gun*, and mounts it new fix poaaiers, with
small arms iu proportion.
THE SHIP
D I A N A,
Burthen 2,100 barrels of Flour,
<?l Philadelphia built of live oak
and c«dar, i. pierced for four
teen guns, end mounts ten new four pounders,
with small arms m proportion.
THE BRIG
AMAZON,
Burthen 1,300 barrels of Flour,
New-England built, has lately
been completely fitted, and may be ready for sea
in a few days.
For terms ipply to
NICKLIh <3 GRIFFITH.
Who have for Sale
on boardfundry vrffels at Mjaeti-Heot,
11,000 bushels of Liverpool fine fait
1,100 bulhels of coals
286 crates ef queens ware assorted
7 tierces of bottled porter
10 barrels ofcoleothard paint
4 do. of purple brown do.
a quantity of yellew ocre in calks
6 barrels powdered Venetian red paint
6 barrels mineral black do.
15 barrels Spanilh brown do.
35 boxes of pipe,
89 T brown ] HAVANA SUGARS
j.joolbs. prime cochineal
3 barrels New Orleans indigo
4 puncheons Jamaica spirits
te bales of fail aanvafs
379 (heets of copper, assorted from 48 by 24
to 60 by 48 inches
Two tubs raised still bottoms assorted
36 fix pound guns 4} feet, each
: >4 do. 4 feet, icwt and 4lbs each
50 barrels of gun powder
6 cases Manchester cotton checks
3 trunks muslins and (hawls
14 cases raufiinets, dimities and ginghams
»8 chests coloured nankeens, muflinets, See.
11 trunks printed calicoes
6 bales of white and coloured cafKmcres
1 bale of course woollens
Englifii nails assorted.
O&ober *7. fri.&fat. tf.
At Public Vendue,
THI CENOESI BIICAMTINI
MICHAEL, s
ON Tuefdaythc 27th inft.
at 6 o'clock in the evening, at the Merchant's Cof
fee Haufe in Second flrtet. This brigantine it is
believed was built in New York, on prool of
which the purchaser willbe intitlcd to aa American
K*iAer. hai iateljr received the nccdStrj re- |
pairs, and may be sent to sea at a small expence
The inventory to be seen at the store of the sub
scribers,
FOOTMAN Co. Auctioneer!.
Nov. 22 fat
FOR LONDON,
To return early in the Spring,
AMYAB L E,
lu I'flfi D. C. Tillinchast, Mailer.
IS expeited to depart about the fifth of Decern "]
her. Far freight or paflage apply to the matter on J
board, or to S
JEREMIAH WARDER, «
N«. la, North Third Street, a
WHK HAS OM HAND,
8 by 10 Window Glass, <
And a quantity of Paper Maker's Rags,
november 19 eojt '
John Miller, junr.
Hat returned to the City,
AND tl RI MOV INC FROM NO. 8, CHtSNUT,
To the Five Story Building, in Dock
near Third-flreet.
Where he has for Sale
250 Bales of Bengal Goods;
CONSIITIMC Of
Caflaes
Bafua
Mamoodies
Humhums
Calicoes
Handkerchiefs, &c. &c.
The remains of a Stock of
DRY GOODS,
Conjifting of Woolens only,
AMOHOT THI M ARB,
Clothi
Coatingk
Blankets
Kendal Cottons
Hats, &c.
AJ.SO,
100 Hhds. of Old Rum,
Of a fine flavor, jd &f 4th proof.
pov to §
Imported,
AND lOft IA La BY
Isaac Harvey, Jun.
No. 9, South Water Strut,
A QUANTITY OF
Surinam Cotton > and Coffee.
Irish linens, in whole and half boxee
Checks
Drogheda linen *
Irish hackled Flax
- Liverpool Salt and Coal.
ALSO A PARCEL OT
Men's and Women's Combs aflorted.
Scot's Thread—and
One hundred hoglheads of prime Aux-Cayu
MOLASSES.
11 mo. 1 ith daw
HUDSON fcf YORKE,
' MO. 54, NORTH FRONT STREET,
HATE JU>T RECEIVED,
Per the lalt arrivals from Europe,
a very complete assortment of
DRY GOODS,
Which they will dispose of on rtafonallt term/,
AMONGST WHICH ARE
Superfine and coarse cloths, coatings,
j Elaflicand fancy do.
j Cafiimeres, plains, duffils,
Rose and stripe blankets well aiTorted in.fmaH
1 bales
j Furniture chintzes, cottons aud dimcties
Callimancoes, camblcts, durants, moreens, and
joani
Mucins oi all kinds
Velvets, velverets, thickfetts and fancy cord»
An elegant alTortment of ribbons
f Red, white and yellow flannels
. Red and green bocking and welsh baizes
An invoice cutlery and hardware
Cottonades, shawls, printed handkerchiefs
' 7-8 4-4 n-8 checks
9-8 & 5-4 cotton flripes
Cotton, worsted and silk holiery
do do Gloves
Threads, bindings, tapet, &c. &c.
( nov. 9. diSt
[ FOR SALE,
By the Subscriber,
The Cargo
Of the Jhip Louisa,
Captaiu Champlin from St. Pcterfburg,
CONSISTING O*
HEMP and BAR IRON. 1
In the Jhip Dispatch, ■ i
Captain Benntrs, from Hamburg,
15 boxes Linens, 1
and a quantity of
Sheathing Copper,
» And the remainder of Jhip Rith
mond's CARGO, from Calcutta,
containing a variety of
Coarse and fine Muslins, ,
and an elegant alTortment of 1
Madras Handkerchiefs. '
Mordecai Lewis.
Philadelphia, nov 7 djw 1
NOTICE. \
ALL Persons indebted to the Eflate of Doctor '
Francis Bowii Satre, deceased, are re- 1
quelled to make immediate paymenc—and those 9
having defrands against the said Eflate, are deGred
to ptoducc the fame, duly authenticated, to
Ann Sayre, } Administratrix. I
Robert Heyfham, 3 Adminiftrntor.
November 15 diw
Imported
IN *HE LAST ARRIVALS,
Superfine, fine arid common cloths j
Swandowns
Baizes
Velvetts ]
Vclveretts
Pi mted calicoes
Furniture & fancy dimities
Hairribhai.ds
Sewing silk
BruflVls and Persia cat petti
Buttons
For fdlc, for tqfh er credit, by
SAMUEL MERRICK. ,
no. 243 Arch fircet.
Nov. 16 §tjanl
REMOVAL. '
George Dobson,
INFORMS his fHefcds and the Public in getieral
that he has removed from Mo. 25, South Third
Street, to No 92,Soutfc fide of Market-fltect, near
the corner of Third Street, and is now opening
a very eztenfive assortment of
DRY GOODS,
SUITABLE FOR THE PRESENT SEASON,
WHICH HE HAS JUST RECEIVED,
Per the (hips William Penn, Amiable, and jane,
from London, and per Chefapeak and Thomas
from Liverpool, and will he fold low for caih, 1
or approved note* at a fliort date, viz,
London 7-4 Superfine Cloths and
Caffimeres, falhionable colours
Yorklhire 7 4 do. and do.
Mixed and plain coatings
Welch flanhels
Kersey beaver, for Spencers
Jeannets and Tabby cords
Velvets and velvetteens
Velverets and thickfetts
7, 8, 4 4 and 11-8 cotton and lin«n checks
7 8 and 4 4 bed tics
6-4 and 7-4 bed bunts
I.ondon chintz and chintz furnitures
Furniture cottons
Do. dimities
Purple and chintz shawls
Silk do.
Camels hair do.
Silk, cotton, and worsted hose
India and British muslins of every description
Black and white erape
Tiffany and paper fans
Hats afTorted in'fmall cases
Umbrellas
Peelings and fattins
Laces and edgings
Ribbands
Silk Modes
Superfine French eambrick
Cambrick muslins
Do. threads
Pulicat and Madras Handkerchiefs,
And an elegant assortment of
Brussels and Wilton Carpeting.
November 17 J
JuJi imported in Jhips William Penn, A'
miahle and Jean,from London,
A quantity ef Cannon,fizes 4.6 & 9 lb.") with balk
Carronades, 12 lbs. suitable.
Mufquets, Mufqwetoons, Cutlafles and" B
Pistols, for ships use,
Rifled barreled Guns, Fowling Pieces, go
and Horfcman'sPiftols, | -S""S
400,000 Flints, chiefly for muflcets, in ' w*
' *•*«■ J «
Rr v ulation Light Dragoon Sabres, with Irj#i Scab
bards, in caf'c»of 50 each,
Light Cavalry Swords in Cases
Sabres', Swords and Cutlafles, with plated mounting
Ironmongery and Cutlery in caflcs, a general as
sortment—For Sale by
Thoinas is" Jno. Ketlatid,
Philad. Oilober 2j.
Just Arrived,
bi the Brig Eliza, from the Mediterranean, and
now landing at Walftut Street wharf,
Fourth proof Brandy in Pipes.
BrimHcne.
( An assortment of valuable DRUGS,
CONSISTING Or
Opiem, Aloes, Cantharides, Camphire, Senna,
CremorTartar, &c. itc.
Eflences of Lemon rnd Bcrgamot
Writing paper 1
Sweet oil in bottles and flafks
Qlives, anchovies and capers
Juniper berties
A L S o.—ltalian luted rings
Satins
• Crapes
Umbrellas
Remaining on Hand,
St. Croix Sugar*,
Claret in cases
Old Madeira Wine of the firfl quelity.
JAMES YARD.
November 3 §
ISRAEL PLEASANTS fcf Co.
No 74, South Secondflreet,
Have returnedfrom the country ; and have for
SALE, at vfual, a large assortment of
DRY GOODS,
Imported in the lafl veflels from Europe, confiding
of articles principally suited to the prefeat and ap
proaching season
They are determined t« fell off very low for
cash or fliort credit.
Note. All pcrfons indebted to the late firm of
Samuil P[enfant 1 Is" Sons, arc desired to make im
mediate payment to thu fubferibers.
Jfrael P leaf ants Ist Co.
Nov. » d4W
ADVERTISEMENT.
WHEREAS Ja.mes Cumming V Co. late ai
the city of Philadelphia, merchants, have
afligned ever all their effefis, rtal, perforal and
mixed, to the fubferibers, (or the benefit of all
their creditors, who fl all iubferibe the (aid afliga
ment within fix months from the date hereof.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, toallperfons
who are indebted to the said eflate, that they arc
required to make immediate payment of their rcf
pedive accounts, to the Aflignees, at their office.
No. 62, Dock fcreet, in failure whereof a<3ion
will be inftitiited for the recovery of such debts a'
arc not discharged accordingly.
John Travit, "J
CtrntHut Cemegytj
at: gust 18 mwftlD
John J. Parry,
clock & Watchmaker,
HA.g again opened'at his usual Stand, No. 31,
South Second ftreet—<wbcrc be hat for Sale,
. A VARItTY Ot
Excellent Gold £s* Silver Watchei,
AND A FEW
Eight Day Cclocks,
Which <wiH be 'warranted to give fatisfaßion.
An aflbrtment of
Gdd, Steel and Gilt chains, Seals and Keys,
All hinds of Cloch arid Watch work done with
particular Attention as heretofore.
0- An Apprentice wanted.
nivember li m.<w&fsv>.
JtiJl Imported\
A quantity of falt-petre, fefihed
Gun powder. F and ilouMcfcaled battle
Cannon, 4 and 6 pounders
London porter and Burton Beer
Mu(lard squares, 4 ounces
Belt Durham mustard
Ginghams, fubie.fl to drawback
All of which will be fold on moderate terms by
HENRY DA VIES, junr.
No. qj, south Second street, opposite the
1 city tavern.
9 B*ltf tf
; IMP ORT EBJ
) From Hamburgh, Bremen, and London,
, *ND FOK ItlE BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
[ An affortmtnt of German Linen%
CONSISTtNO ot
Tickleaburgs
Qfnaburgs
Wefcr linen
Checks and stripes
Bielefeld litlen -u '
Brown filcfias
Silesia lawns
« Siamois, &cs &c.
150 Boxes of Claret.
5 Boxes of hollow glass ware
It calks of RulTta btlfHes
ALSO oU HAND,
i Box of Irifli Linens.
I Trunk silk goods
I Box of Gingham,
3 And a complete djfortment of
English Buttons.
Erich (s* Lewis Botlman,
No. 100, Sprue* street.
noVetrberi 9 coiot
Hats Ssf Hoiiery.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
AT HIS STORE,
No. 134, Market Street,
HAS JUST OPENED, in addition to hi» for
mer (lock, a very extensive affot tment of
Men's, Women's, and Children's Hats, and all
> m kinds of Stockings—particularly a quantity ot' A
' berdeen knit Hose, suitable for the present fcafon.
Nov. it, eo 1 m
f * To be Sold,
j6 OR EXCHANGED,
For property ia the Citv, or within Thirty
miles of it,
A Valuable Plantation,
IN Tufcorora Valley, Mifflin county, containing
about three hundred acres, the whole capable
of cultivation. At present there is about 50 acres
cleared, lo of which isa rich bottom of Meadow
Ground, enriched by a never failing (Jream, that
has fall and water enough for all the purpofe<s of
a Country Mill. For further information apply at
* No. 68, Market flreet.
November 10 taw*
The Subscribers
Have received by the late European arrivals, the
Following Merchandize,
j Shipped them principally on confinement, which
they offal 1 by packag* to Wholesale Store Keepers,
or others, on very advantageous terms, for calh,
appro^efd, notes, or hills of exchange on London.
MedFord b* Willis,
'» No. 78, North Front Street.
IRISH LINENS.
Printed calicoes furnitures, purple and colored
shawls
Muslins, plain, striped, checked and fancy
jaconet and book handkerchiefs
Pins and sundry haberdafhtry
Scotch and colored threads
Scarlet cloth cardinals
Durants and calamancoes
Worded, cotton and fancy hosiery
Felt, castor and beaver hats
Yorkshire plains and broadcloths
Plain and twilled coatings iTidduffilla
Caflimeres and fwanfdowm
Stripe, point and role blankets
White colored and Wel(h flannels
Knapt Kendall cottons
- Worsted and mohair plushes f
Pewter, aflbrted in fmzll casts
Spades, (hovels, frying pins & ironmongery
r An invoice of Watches &
100 calks nails assorted.
nov 1* f
Philadelphia Price Current,
. and
Market Day Advertiser,
r TO at PUBLISHED EVERY WEDNESDAY A*»
FRIDAY MOR N1 KC.
f 'T'HE fubferiber refpcdfully informs the
public, that the above Price Current, for
which proposals were issued by him not long fine*
(lilt (lands in need of some furtjier encourages.«ut
to enable him to go on with it. He flatters hitn«
felf, however, from the incrcafe of his fahfcriptwii
lift within these few days patt. that he will be en
abled to give it to the public in the caurfe of a
Ihort time. In the interim he earnestly follcit*
I fubferiptions, which are thankfully received at his
•ffice, no. ft), south Third (lreet, opposite the
I Bank ol the United States.
James Humphreys.
Nov. 21 cojt
A Young Man,
WHO writes a good hand, underflanda
accounts andean be well recommended,
wants a Situation as Clerk or Affiflant in a
, Wholesale Store, or Conutir.p-hottfe. Appli
cation to be made at this Office.
nov 14 j
BALLAST.
AtJUANTI I Y to br difpofcri of, if applied fcf
immediaitlv, on board the Ship Loud*,
Mi, HUMPHREY'®Shi? Ya,d.
novtmbrr i+. $MAYOR'S OFFICE
REMOVED to 157 S"Uth Second-street.
Nov. 14. Oiw
%* The sale of the brig Abigail is pofl
ponetl to Tuejda\ Evening, 6 dclock.
nw. 13
On >vIO>4DAY next, at a o'clock preeafcly,
At Footman & Co's
A UCTfoN STORE,
WILL BE SOLD,
the remainder of the (lock in trade belonging to
thceflate of John P. Metzcar, deceased,
Corfijling of
I bale linfeys.
Cloths and caflimer**
Coatingsaud blankets
A great variety worlled ftuff
Velvets and fancy cords
Worlled hofis, yarn do. bed ticks
Jeans, n.nkceris, fhalleons, florciltiaet
X calks feaiing wix
a hhrt. fpunges
Flaeneis.and bearskins
Looking glasses, &c &c
FOOTMAN & Co. Auilioneers.
Nov. dtm
FOR SALE
By the Subscribers,
ON VERY LOWTERMS
WAX CANDLES,
O* A SUPERIOR QUALITY,
Eitfier \iy tlve tingle box of 44lbs. or by the qnan -
tity.
"Witlings & Francis.
Nov. 24
FOR SALE,
A QUANTITY OF
KO CO A.
ALSO—A few bales of excellent Cayenn« Cotton.
fubje£l to drawback—enquire of
JEHU HOLLINGSWORTH W Co.
No. 47, Pain Street
nov. 24 dtf
THE CO-PARTNERSHIP OF
William S. Thom Sff Co.
IS by mutual] consent this day diffclved. The
bnfinefs in future will be carried on at the
tifual place, No. 43, North Second street, by Wil
liam S. Thom, whsre he refpe&fally invites his
friends and the customers of the house of William
S. Thom & Co. and will always endeavour to have
a handlortc assortment of feafunoale goods at the
mod reuueedprictt. k
nov. 24 5J 3 t
ON MONDAY NEXT,
In the AJterhoon at 2 o'clock, precisely
At FOOTMAN & Co's. Au&ion Room,
WILL BE SOLD,
In addition to the Goods already advertised
1 Bale Superfine Cloths
1 do Cafiimeres '
1 Cafe Worited Hosiery
I Bale Yarn Stockings
j do Dutch Linfeys
1 Trunk Chintze*
I B le India Handkerchief.
1 dg Thick M'iflins.
At 3 o'clock, preeifely,
WILL BE SOLD, on account of the
UNDERWR ITtKS.
I Cafe Fancy Cords, Velvetts, Dimitys and.
Bindings
SO pieci'3 Cotton Checks and Stripes
1 Cafe Velveteenc, ribbed, dimity's, Itfe.
I Bale Welch Flannels.
FOOTMAN £s* Co. attßion/crs.
nov, 24 '
ironmongery, Cutlery, &c.
THE SUBSCRIBERS ,
INTENDING to decline their ptefent Business,
offer f9r sale, at redueed prices, a handsome
alTorrment ol Iroemongery, Cutlery, ice. in lots
to suit the purcbafers.
John Green lif Co.
No. 16, Nurth Second street.
cj- Ironmongers
Will find the above Goods not unworty their
attention.
Nov. 23 §
Now Landing,
From on board the fbip John TBulkeley, and
for sale at the stores of Jeffe & Robert
Wain,
350,0c0 weight of Java Coffee,
of the firft quality in bags.
150,000 weight of Java Sugar,
in cannifters.
Nov. 13
Mrs< Emes,
INFORMS her fricndu in the city, and likewise
those who remain in the country, that ihe has
returned to her house, No. north Sixth street.
Nov. 4 •' 13*
BEEF,
OT THI riRST QUALITY,
And fit far India voyages—Fer Sale By
WILLIAM SHEAFF,
No. 16S , High Street.
Nov. 23
WANTED,
A F IF E R y
For the Voluoteur Grenadiers.—Eequire H No.
lis, Chemut ftruet. '
nov. 6 i #6L
NOTICE.
ALL persons indebted to the estate of Jamis
Thompson, of the Indian Queen, Fourth
street deceased. are desired to make payment to
the fubferibers—and those who have any demands
against the said efta'.e, are requested to fend in their
accounts duly attelled for settlement, to
MARGARET THOMPSON,"> Administratrix.
JOHN THOMPSON, J Administrator.
aov. 13
To be Sold at Audion,
TO THI HIGHEST BIODII,
On THURSDAY, the 1 jth December next,
At the Buneh of Grapes Tavern, in BOSTON,
preeifely at I o'clock, P. M.
Two Notes of Hand,
Signed by Kelly *nd Clark, and indorsed by
Martin Kmflcy, Thomas Barber and James Green
leaf, dated December 18. 1795. »nd payable the
ift day of January, 1799. *' z - .....
One Note for three tkoufand fix hundred dollars,
and one Note for four thoufan.l eight hundred
dollars.
Boston, november 14 (**)
NOTICE.
All Persons indebted to «h« Estate of doc
tor Hugh Hodgt, deceased, are requested
w, make immediate payment—»nd those having
demands against the filiate are delired to authen
■cate snd present them to.
MARI-l HODGE, tdmini/lralrtx.
SAMUEL HODGDEN, adminiflrator.
* # * T%f infriduSlory l.eclure to Dr.
Woodho .j?s Carp of Chetnijfry tvill he de
liver'ti nt the Lnkraiory, in Fifth, between
.Valnut and Cbefnut jlrrts, on Tuesday
the I~jth cf November, at ten o'clock in the
morning.
Nov. 24. ___ _____
* # * The Custom House is re
movedfrom Chester to the City, and
is again opened at the usual place.
November t, §
VEND UE.
On THURSDAY next, the i<)th injlant, at ten
o'clock in the morning (weather permitting)
Will be exposed to sale,
at the house lately occupied by Mrs. Lockyer, No.
I4.fouth Second street, ,
Houfhold Furniture,
Kitchen Utenfils,and
Fire-wood (befl baron oak) a
bout 12 cords,
Note, all bed« and bedding are excluded from the
sale; they have been removed some time, fincc,
and the house has been thoroughly purified.
Connelly Co. Auct'rs
Philadelphia, november »»,1798
A of the House lately oc
cupied by Susanna Lockyer, at a moderacc rent,
for about 7 years, one of fhebefl (lands in the city,
together with the whole or part of a (lock of goods
in an excellently eftablilhed trade, unexceptionable
in <Juality or aflortnient. Or the goods a liberal
credit will be given if required.
Nathan A. Smith} v . , 0
John Dorfey 5 E * e "" ors '
dt!9
" THE SUBSCRIBER, '
To the City Dancing Aflembly,
ARE reque/ted to meet at (Eller's Hotel, on
Monday evening next, at 7 o'clock, for
the purpose of eleilmg Managers.
By order *f the late managers,
JAMES CELLERS.
nov ai • jt
A U 1 I C E.
ALL Persons.indebted to the Estate of Wil
liam Beauchamp, lately deceased, are de
sired to make immediate payment and those who
have any claims against said Estate to produce
accounts properly attested to
Sam/. Price, executor.
noy ao dim
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT application will b.- made aj the Trea.
fury of t'le United States, for the renewal of
the following cer'ificatss of Funded Debt, (land
ing in the nan* ot Robert Whitworth, of Chelfea,
London, thefaid Certificates having been forward
ed by the ihip Ellice, Hatvey, from Lttbdon for
New-York, captured by the French, andluppofed
to be IoS.
No-11437, 6 Per Cent. Stock, dated New-
York, 18th April, 1796, fer Dollars. 1481,47.
No. 8 r 71, 3 Per Cent, dated New-York,
lßth April 1795, for dollars 400.
SAMUEL MIJLBANR.
Hovtmher 18 d6w
I'M PORTED,
In the Ships Attive and Liberty,
from HJMBORGH.
Ticklenburghs,
Oznabrigs,
White Platillas
Brown Silefias 1
Bretagnes
Heflian Rolls
Brown Russia Sheetings
German Lindfeys,
Bed Ticks, Iffc.
For Sale by
GEORGE PENNOCK.
no. 103 Market-street.
nov *0 J
FOR SALE,
To be EXCHANGED for property within thirty
miles of the city, or to let on ground-rent forever
Several valuable building Lots,
In Philadelphia,
Enquire of William M. Biddle.ne. 147, Chefnut
ftreec.
Nov. a» §
A Coacbee & Pair of Horses.
FORSALE,
On reasonable tirmj,
ACOACHEE and pair of Horses, they may
be seen at John Dunwoody's ■ For
terms apply at No. 96, Arch-street.
nov si djt
WRAPPING PAPER.
FOR SALE, VERY CHEAP,
A Quantity of printed Paptr, fiiitable for
Grocers, Tobacconists, & c . Enquire of the
Printer,
nov to 4t
JAMES & RICHARD SMITH,
HAVE this day returned from the country to
their STORE, No. 54, South Ftont-ftreet,
where they hsve for sale, as usual, a large and ge
neral afiortment of European and East-India
DRY GOODS;
mod of which have now arrived and are land in?,
from the different velTels, from Hamburgh, Lon
don, Liverpool and Hull.
Their Cuftomeri by applying will find almost
every article genera'ly imported, and at as low
prices for ealb or credit, as they can be had else
where.
N. B A few Cafcs of Nurenbergh TOYS, a
eonfignment, to be fold by the cafe only.
Philadelphia, Nov. 1, 1798. <j t f
The Subscribers
HAVE JUST RBCFIVED AM INVOICE OF
Choice Cheshire fc? Double Gloucester
<cheese.
[Per the Chesapeake from Liverpool.]
100 Boxes of Window Glass,
Of various flzes, per the Jane, from London.
They have also for Sale,
200 Calks of Refined Salt-Petre,
_ AND A QUANTITY OP
Fine Castor Oil.
James C. isf Samuel W. Fisher.
November 1
WANTED,"
AGoodPlain Cook,
IN A SMALL FAMILY.
Apply at No. 109, Xpmce ftrett, near Fifth ftrett.
ncvembrr 10
THE AGES OF REAION.
FRENCH liberty's a farce :
LikeColtot d'Heibois, all her Com are players:
All have their exits and their eocrances. 4
France, ill her time, in vice and follv's Dram',
Hath play'd fev'n a£h. First, PhUofupkif Injmts
Nurs'd by Vohaire, and mewling far reform :
Then Tiers-ttat: with fcraos of Rights of Man,
And front rebellions, with monarchic pow'r
Unwillingly combin'd. Then citizen,
Frantic as Hell, with manyaf&e and hymn
To strumpet Goddefles. Jacobins,
Full of strange projefts, bloody as the 'pard,
Jealous of neighb'ring nations, quick in quarrel.
Seeking the bubble, deaf Equality,
Even in the cannon's mouth. Then Regicides,,
In foul convention, drench'd with Louis'blood,
Withred-eapt heads, or heads cut off fans form,
Full of old Rome and modern Guillotine,
And so they play their part. The sixth age fhius
Into a lean, half-familhed horde ofjfaves,
Five kiiavrs their kings, the'r pouches cramm'd with
mafid'its,
Their youthful conftiiulion far top free
For their (hi Link fouls; ana the big voice of Freedom
Turning to childilh adulation, courts
A proud Dir-ftory. Last scene of all,
That ends this flrange eventful Revolution,
Is barb'roua anarchy, mere savage lite;
Sans trade, fans laws, fans God, fans every thing.
HORATIO.
p».]
HIOM A LATE INCIISH PAPZR.
I
BUONAPARTE'S EXP ED II lON.
Cd" During the present anxiety respeCting
the design of Buonaparte'sexpedition, and
the practicability of the voyage to India,
the following observation on the Mon
soons, extracted from the Bombay Ca
lender must be interesting.
OUR readers will not require to be told, )
that onr year is divided into two grand sea
sons, or as they are called, the South Weft
and North East Monsoons ; that the firft
generally prevails from May to the middle
of September, inclusive, the other during
the remaining months ; yet we must premifc
this as an introduction to what follows :
We need fcrcely to. observe, that during
the South Weft Monsoon, all the ports and
roadfteds on this fide of India deny approach
—so much so that between the 15th of May
and the Ift of September, ships are preclu
ded by their policies from touching upon the
Malabar coast, or from lying in SuratVoads
between the Ift of May and the lit of Sep
tember. Generally speaking the Monsoon
is considered to extend from Dunder-head,
the southern extremity of Ceylon, to the
Persian gulph ; in order to attain which,
they -who (hould fail at this season, would be
obliged to make what is called a fauthern
passage, that is, go firft to the south of the
Equator, before they could (tretch over to
the weft ward , a vayage that would occupy
for Muscat about 40 days, and to Bufforah
about two months ; the fame objection ex
ists Sgainlt failing at this season to ajy part
of the Arabian coast ; as for'the Red Sea,
it is considered in vain to attempt enterjng
it at this feifoo—nor can i( be said to be
favourable to fail now to the cape, the Mau
ius, or any port to the weft ward.
To die Other fide of India <xt*lie-c»ntra
ry, it is now the mtaft advantagrtms period
of departing. From the middle of April
even to the middle of August, a voyage to
Madrafs may be made in about 12 or 15
days ; to Bengal, from 15 to 20 days ;
after this time it becomes excessively tedious
from the necefiity of keeping to the Eas
tern fide of th* bay to avoid the violent wea
ther on the Coromandel coast ; for the fame
reason the south weft Monsoon is eligible to
leave Bombay for any of the ports in the
gulph of Bengal or the straits of Malacca :
hence also it is the season for failing to Chi
na ; after the 20th of August, howevrr,
what is called the direst passage to China
becomes very precarious, with much proba
lity of finding blowing weather in the Chi
na seas.
With regard to the ports from which
(hips may be expefted to arrive at. Bombay
during this monsoon ; it may be lata down
as a general rule, that'the quarters favora
ble to fail during any season, are those that
it is unfavourable to expeft arrivals from,
and vice versa : hence, from the Persian
Gulph, the Red Sea, the Cape of Good
Hope, and the westward in general, this is
the most seasonable period to expedt arrivals;
from Muscat, a trip may now be made in
10 or 12 days, from Mocha in 20 days,
and Suez in about a month ; it (hould be
remarked, that after September the Red
Sea admits of no egress : (hips consequently
remaining there beyond that time, must
continue there all the north-east moonfon,
and are said to have loft their passage ; on
this account the 25th of August is the
latest day to which our cruisers are allowed
to remain at Suez. From the Cape a pas.
sage may be made in five or fix weeks, from
the Mauritius, in three weeks or a inonth.
The south-west monsoon is also the most
faverable season in which a passage may be
made from Batavia or any ports to the east
ward, through these southern (traits; from
Batavia to Bombay in particular, a passage
may be made in about 35 days. From
Madras and Bengal during the south-west
monsoon, it is necessary to make the south
ern passage in order to'reach Bombay ; this
will require in a passage from Madras, from
30 to 40 days, and from Bengal from 45
to 60 days, frons the necefiity of working
out of the river, and beating down the Bay
to clear Acheen-head ; from the straits of
Malacca it i* in arduous task to fail for
this port, or even to any one in the Penin
sula of Iniia, owing to the difficulty of
wearing round Acheen-head.
We have now to treat of the north-ealt
monsoon, or the season which may be con
sidered as included between the 15th of
August and the 15th of April, in which,
the firft circumstance that occurs to us to
remark, is that our coaik is rendered in a
peculiar manner feaure and favorable to na
vigation ; it is now considered the most eli
gible period for failing to the Persian Gulph,
and irt general to all ports to the westward :
to Muscat the trip is generally 15, and to
Bufforah 28 days. The time suitable for
failing to Mot ha aad Suez, is from the mid
dle pi February to the middle of Match,
when a passage may be nude to tSe firft in
18 days, to the second in 25. If ■» fl»'P he
delayed till the end of March or the
beginning of April, the passage becomes
more tedious, being then obliged to make
th* land to the foufhward of the island of
SoCatra, before the Gulph can be entered,
on account of the southerly winds which
prevail, and a current setting to the north
ward. After the 15th of April, a (hip
bound to the Red Sea would be very likely
to lose her passage.
Between the 15th of August and the 15th
of September, it be considered favoura
ble to fail to Madras and Bengal, but after
this time the season is fufpmdtd. owing to
the setting in of the North-ealt monsoon on
the other fide of India, which closes the
ports on the coast of Coromandel, Golconda,
and Oriffa, between the 15th of OCtober
and the 15th of December, at least this peri
od is excepted in common policies of insu
rance : after this time again a passage may
be made to Madras in 30, and Bengal in
50 days, this season may be deemed unfa
vourable to the coast of Pegue and the straits
of Malacca, but far the straits of Sunda, Ba
tavia, for example, it is the best adapted :
a passage thither may be Dade in 35 days.
With regard to the seasonable imports in
this monsoon, it is at 110 time more advanta
geous than now for coming from the Coro
mandel Coast and in short the whole Bay :
a passage may be made from Madras in 26
days, from Bengal in a month, and Penang
a month. From the Persian Gulph it is no
less favourable, the paffige from Muscat be
ing about !o days j and from Bufforah 28.
The Red Sea is now closed ; nor is it rea
sonable to exprCt arrivals from the Cape or
the Straits of Sunda ; from the latter in par
ticular it isalmoft impoffibleat this season to
make a tolerable paflage.
FOREIG N ARTICL Es.
t ■»- ■ • ■ - -»
EXTRACtS fROM UVCLISH P/tPSRS.
LONDON, September 18.
The independence which France bellows
upon the Republic? which (he has formed
is, to be perfeflly dependent upon her ; and
the liberty of doing what (he pleases. " You
(hall be King, and I will be Viceroy over
you."
A French Loan has been whispered at
Madrid ; but Don John, who is a sulky
fort of a gentleman at times, declares he
will let it alone.
Amsterdam once so distinguishable for
the firmnefs of its police, and the decorum
of its manners, is said to have now become
the fink of vice and debauchery. Every
street is crowded with prostitutes, and almost
every house is a Brothel.
Wednefaay la 11 upwards of 30c French
prisoners, taken by the Hazard sloop of war
(coming from the Mauritius,) were landed
at Liverpool ;-:amongft many females cap
tured, one heroic Joan of Arc was feei*,
who (food to her gun, and commanded the
mctrduuiig theKCWoii ; her child accompa
nied her as (he marched along guarded by
British soldiers.
It now appears, that the united English,
Ruffian, and Turkilh fleets are to be em
ployed in traafporting from Greece to Al
exandria the army of the Captain Pacha,
who has left Widden, and is on his march
to the Archipelago.
The books, manuscripts, and curiosities
lent from the Vatican at Rome, and the
Library of St. Mark at Venice, to Paris,
have not received any damage in carriage.
The manufcrpts are in the highest preserva
tion, and are bound with much elegance.
Amount the antiquities are, a sacred veffelin
gold filligree, of singular workmanfliip ; two
gold crosses, enriched with precious (tones ;
two golden crowns, one of which belonged
to King Flavius Agilius, and the other to
Queen Theolinds. They are of a circular
form, ornamented with (tones, and were
used at the coronation of the Lombard
Kings, 1 here are also some large tables of
marble and porphyry, with Greek inferip
tions upon them. All the curiosities have
been placed in the Cabinet of Antiquities
at Paris.
We have been told of the immense funis
gained by our Naval Commanders. The
public (hould also be acquainted with their
liberality. The wife of Rorere, one of the
Deputies sent to Cayenne, and one of those
who are now arrived in England, was, with
a great number of Priefti, taken some time
ago by Sir Edward Pellew, in a French
frigate going to Cayenne. She had fold all
her property in France to go to join her un
happy hulband, and had with her about
300®!.—Sir Edward ha 9 given back to her
the 300 PI. and has paid the sailors their share
out of his own purse.
[The following important article is a
specimen of the ingenuity of London Edi
tors, in the art of para graph-making. 3
The complaint in the Princess Amelia's
knee, is said to yield to the remedies that
are now going on, by the advice of the at
tending faculty, at Worthing, in Suffcx, as
far as refpedts the fears that from a defeCt in
thcfynovia, there would be a constant (liff
nefs in the joint ; but it is doubtful when,
y«ung at-ft»>ii, her Royal Highness will
recover the full dfe of it.
Several accounts have been given of large
floating vcffels, but none equal to the fol
lowing ;—Philopater, an Egyptian King,
built a vessel of 40 ranks of oars—more like
a castle or palace than a (hip ; being in
length 420 feet, and in breadth 72 ; con
taining 4000 rowers, 400 mariners, and
3000 soldiers.
It appears, by a private letter from that
excellent prelate, the bifkop of Killala, that
the expeoces in keeping his visitants, the
French, at his palace, in fix days, amounted
to 5001.
The French geceral who commanded at
'
Killala, told the biftiop, that during all i%.
campaigns he had made with
he had never fuffered so much as in the fn> ii
(lay he made in Ireland.
The Following particulars come from a Ren
tleman who was on the scene of aftioit du
ring the late momentoui business in I re
land, to his friend ill Bath. The circum"
fiances may have appeared in the public"
, papers before, but their being written bv
a private hand, adds to their intercft and
eftablilhes their authenticity.
After giving an account of the furreod
er of the French troops as appeared in tkl
Gazette, he fays, " The rebels who w cr ,
with them, are completely cut to piece, •
they were put in the front of the battle bC !
their new Jriends, and from their gre J
slaughter, it it is generally underftaod on
their giving way before our troops, thev I
were cannonaded by the French according
to their plan at the battls of Jemappe Th
French would have surrendered some dav!
previous provided the Irish who were in
their camp, ihotild be included : this l on t
Cornwallis absolutely refuftd, and the del,,
ded rebels in confcquence, had no qU art«
given theai.
« You have no|dta how admirably lord
Cornwallis conduits hmfelf ; he adheres to
no party whatever j he lifters attentively to
all, but judges and adls from himfelf
" The limerick m ilitia have gained i mmor .
ho " or 5 tli9 y fuftamed the shock of the
army for upwards of two hours. Col Ve
reker has got infinite credit by it —Lord
Roden greatly diftinguilhed himfelf,' and his
regiment behaved in a moll gallant manner.
In the firft charge to animate his men, he
advanced so far before his regiment, that he
fell into the hands of the enemy ; which
when the regiment perceived, they determin!
Ed to a man to retak, him, or perifl, in the
attempt---they accordingly charged again
with such hrmnels and impetunfity, that
they brought off their adored colon*! in
triumph. . This little business has giver,
such an energy to the army, and to militia
regiments in particular, that I verilv believe
were the French to effed another 'landing
they would not keep their ground a second
day."
September i j.
Carnot, it is laid, resides at a village near
Linti, where, under an affiimed name, he en
joys bare toleration, without the slightest favor
or countenance from the Austrian government.
He is busily employed in writing memoirs of the
revolution, which will difclo'fe many interesting
secrets, and which more particularly will illul
trate those military operations which he planned
and of which the consequences seem likely to
change the whole face ef the earth.
The Roman territory continues to be> dread
fully diftrafled. Troop, are constantly March
ing from qne place to another to quell the dis
turbances. The French commander in chief
has publiQied an order, making every commune
responsible for the outrages committed within
its j'urifditftion. , ,
—— ft *'
In the article of liberty, the Ji/imffreJ/Ms
or the French ma* j onm ■j
They have been fo,liberal in the distribution of
free Governments, that tliey have forgot to keep
one for themselves.
September 28.
This day a mail arrived from Dublin .
Teeling, who many expeded would receive
a pardon, on account of the humanity he
had (hewn in redrawing the vindi&ive pas.
fions of the rebels who had joined the French
on their landing, has been executed, a* a
warning to other natural born fubjefts, not
to deceive themselves by a belief, that afting
under a foreign commiflion will be held a
good plea for ads of rebellion.
September 29.
ai -^' v '*V ot out cruizers along the eosft from
Dunkirk to Ollcnd, the French troops in that quar
ter are greatly harrafled. Sometime! an attack.it
threatened at one point, sometimes at another, and
the enemy's forces, much weakened by drafts to the
Rhine, areexpofed to incessant fatigue.
Of the companions of Pichegru, Ramelle wasCom
mamder of the National Guard of Paris; Willot was
a Diputy, and had commanded the troops of the liue
at Marseilles; Roveie was a Marquis under theold
Government, was deeply implicated in forrieof those
bloody scenes which passed at in 1791; but
> n <797, became onc °f 'he mod zealous and formida
ble opponents of the Direflory, in the Couucitof Five
Hundred.
Suard, one of the writers sentenced to tranl"-
p rtation, on the 4th of September, has found
an aiylum at the house of his old friend M Nec
ker, at Copet, where that ex-minister resides,
hitherto, undiftnrbed by the florins of the Hel
vetic Revolution.
Pichegru profeffes the warmed gratitude for
thekindnefs which heexpeiiencrd fromthe offi
cers.of the W-afTenaer, who (hewed to this tin
fortunate general all ;the politeness of Englilh
gentlemen, and all the generosity of Englilh
seamen.
Barbarities of the United Iri/hmen:
DUBLIN, Sept. ?1 .
Wcdnefday night, a numerous gin'g of above
100 desperadoes, entered the house of Mri.
Lamb, near Old Bawn and Tallagh, in th«
county of Dublin, and plundered it of cash,
and every portable article of value it contained.
While the villains were in the house, they ap
peared to be under great apprchenfion, for they
were frequently heard to fay, "Boys, mind the
piquet," which wl suppose was a guard of their
party they Rationed at the outside, to be oJ the
watch. They were goin« to hang a gentlemis
who was a visitor in she house, arid had a re?e
about his neck for the purpafe ; but some l«i»
cruel than their comrades, interfered, and fjv
ed his life.
On Wednesday iaft a poor inoffenfive jsm6»
named James -Wiley, was seized by a party of
Wicklow Rebel*, as he was saving his little
crop of hay on the land* of Merganftown in
that county : he was carried by them toafbort
distance from his own habitation, and placed!-
gjtnlt a wall by the mercilef* villains, whofirfd
at him, and lodged three balls in his head. This
unhsppy man was by trade a carpenter j hid
not been enrolled in any yeotnonry corps, M
been at all forward in opposition to the Rebels;
indeed, the remorseless villains did not arctfe
him ( ' any other crime than" That of being »
FroteParit.MORE OF
BtJOtfA PATES'* EXPEDITION.
Seme nccounts of the con/litution of Egypt,.
Undtr the government of the Beyt.
Egypt is called a Turkidi Province, but
it is in taft a Monarchical, Ariflocratical,
Military Government. The Beys or Go
vernors of the eighty Provinces have all the
power in their and ftipport thtir au
thority by their confederates, the Mamelouk
foldicry The Sultan, tn.ieed, keeps a
Pacha in Cairo, the capital, but unless he
were to be accompanied with an army, this 1
Representative could not exercise any degree 1
of power. Four and twenty of the most 1
powerful of the Beys compose a kind of '
Divan, wbich communicates its orders to !
the Pacha, which he publishes in the name
of the Sultan. Almost all the Bey» are .
Mamelonks, that is numumitted chriftiai ,
(laves from Georgia, Circafiia, &c. &c. who 1
have embraced the Mohammeda-j religion, «
and have risen gradually from the fitua-ion 1
of a common soldier to the rank of Bey. *
The name of Mamelouk i- given to tiiofc j
children who have hern catried off by merch- i
ants or robber® from Georgia, Circafiia, Na<- r
to|i«, and the other provinces of the Otto- t
man Empire, and aftrrwuds exposed to pub- .
lie sale in the public market at Conftantino- =
pie, or Cairo. The Egyptain grandees, who f
themfelvc? have a similar origin, educate t
these children in their houses, and prepare a
them for being their fucccffor* in their dig- t
nities At present these foreigners alone v
can attain the rank of Bey, and be inverted f
with public offices. The law on this sub- '
jest is f» precise that the son of a B;y ne- \
v.r can succeed to his father's station. Com- v
monly the sons of the Beys enur into the ar- f
my, and the Divan assigns them a conlide- t
rable revenue. J
Almost all the Mamelouk' are sprung j
from chriflian parents. After they are pur- {
chafed, they are comp lied to embrace the ;
Mohammedan religion, and learn the Tur- r
kifh and Arabian languages. After they r
liavc leatnt to read and write, thty are 111- f
itruiSed in the Koran.
From their earliell youth likewise, the '
Manelouka are taught to ride, and the ex- ! j
orcife of the fpenr, the fibre, and other v
arms. Tbey are conllantly exercising in i
military evoiutionc, ir.ured to the heai of the
climate, and to rndur ■ the parching drought
of thedefarts. By these exercises they at- '•
tain health, vigour and courage I > order '
to make~good soldiers they only require to
be iflftrufled in European taAics. At pre- i
lent, however, they fight without any kind ; v
of order, and are totally ignorant of artillery. ' p
The number of.the Mameloaks is from 3000 °
to 6000. ! 3
When the Turkish emperor Se/im,'in the
year 1517. conquered Egypt, he endeavor- \ s
ed (to preserve this important conquest) to f !
gain the favour of the Mamelouks. For a
this reafoti he made little alteration in their si
form of government, and in a treaty of peace I 1
granted them great privileges. By this trea-1*
tf »he Beys were authorised to fufpenii from P
his office, and denou te to the Pope, the ;
Pacha, or Viceroy ot the Sultan, if he hap- j
pened to incur their displeasure, or was guil- ] -
tyof any encroachment on their power. By
this treaty likewise, they were boatid annu- 1
ally to pay the sum of 500,000 ajlani to the ; !'
Porte. This sum was afterwards raised to
800,000, or about 150*0001. fteiling —The ! 3
Beys, however, commonly retain great sums
for the repair of the canals and fortifications, ■
and do not temit the half of it to Conflanti- r
nople. Befidts they are bound to supply a ,
ceitain quantity wheat, and nearly 150,0001.
for the support of the tomb of Medina, 1
where Mahomet is buried, and the temple 3
of Mecca. Upon thele conditions was r
the unlimited authority of the Beys over
all the inhabitants of Egypt recognized. I f
Ihe Beys are sensible of the advantages r,
of their fituati n, and abuse their power most
groflly. A Pacha retains his authority on
ly while he favours their views. If he at- *
tempts'to defeud the interefls of his raafter
or the Egyptians, he is immediately confi- ,
dered a traitor ; the Divan assembles and n
fends him about his bufi ;efs. The Beys ,
wl\o are at the head of the provinces and of
the troops, accordingly have all the power a ,
in their hands, and the people is completely ■
fubjeffc to their arbitrary will
IA be ter pißure of the French Republic r
could not be drawn ~\
- . .. ■ P
Engliih wrought Nails.
Imported in the /hips'MAly and D:ani, from „
L 1 V Hi POOL. "
400 Calks of Nails,
CONSISTING of 6d, Bd, iod, ia*l, and
iod f fiat points suitable for the fouthcrn "
rairkct 6d, Bd, iod, nd, and 2od, finedrawn Ci
sharps also t, j, 4, and 6 clouts-*-fprigs si
lucks—i«iipp«r nails—fhcathlug nails, &C* e i
KOR SALE BY, rj
Robert Denifon, junr.
H7 Market-street.
James iff William Millet 1 , c<
A'o 53, North Third Street, fl'
Near Arch street, have the following articles for tl
sale upon moderate terms for ca!h, or the h
usual credit.
Scarlet Cloths, ; r
I.ow and middling quality, Mulberry and Green tl
ditto,, White, Red. and Ycllowr [rifli Flannels, a|
Blue, Oreen, and Mulberry half thicks. India ca-
I cprs, Gurrahs, Mamoodies, Guzzines, and other Ir
mnflins, fancy and plain cotton hose, velvets, thick- ni
fz'tn and fancy cor.lt, sewing silk and twifl of all tl
colours, ferreting, h'ur ribbon, coloure.l threads, 0 |
Indiabandanoe>, and other black and colour- m
*d silk hindkerchiels,*a variety ol other cotton ,
do. Soutc romals, red Gilla handkerchiefs, mo
mens, f«i»n fpianinj. futlians, bcivers, jeans, fa- ft
tinetri and royal ritjlis, also muflinets and dimities, tl
nov, at _ diot j
Dobbin £c Roberts,
TATLORS,
1 ) f ii f.irra ihcirCuflonier.-, and
lv the Public in gen-ral, that they have rcmo- li
ve,l from No. TI4, OUefou: Street, to w
No. 30, Sputh Fourth Street; E
Where orders in their lins will he thankfully re- tl
caived and diligently attended to. gl
savsmbcr is »wstf,»w
%hc Oajette*
»
PHILADELPHIA,
, l MONDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER »6.
h. ■
e tr THIS DAY'S MAILS
k Brings nothing New.
a
0 THE public attention hat been called during
s tke part week to the flagrant and atrocious fadl
e °f 'be existence of < fnciety of United Irishmen
!t in this City. The meeting which gave rife to
our remarks, has doiibtlefs been held, and the
0 prOposed plans agreed on. Inftsad therefore of
e relaxing in our attetit\ui) to thel'e defipns, there
is a manifeft call (or inufejfed v'gUance. Their
e apparently iooffenfive lie'tgnaficW <jught by no
n meant to deter us fromTufpecflmj; them of the
0 most bloody purposes. Whe:i I beho'd a man
, evidently plotting mv de ru&ion, it is of but
[j little import whetker he ftrikc under the name
of in*highwayman or jn U ited Iri/hman, a 1
c burglar, or j peep o" day boy, an a (Tallin, or a
Defender. Ihe fangsinary watchword assumed
by this daring gang of outlaws, should arm eve
ry man in de[eftation and abhorrence againfl
the'n, and every United Irishman ought to be
punted from the couivrv, as much as a wolf or
a tyger. for a more bloody and remorftlefs
band of organized alTiiTins never polluted the
fountains of society. As there is little doubt
e that delegate* attended at tins meet ng from the
e affiliat societies of New-York and e fewhere,
- the attention of the Editors of public papers'
? will be profitably turned to ascertaining this
1 Whether any and what Irifh.nen of no
. torions charadler have recently left the place,
what the ofUnfihlc, what the probable bnfinefs
they could have in hand these are points
which ''emand the attention and co operation of
- spirited aid well dilpofed citizens generally, in
- exploding the d.vkeft and mod nefarious conspi
racy, which -ver yet found abettors in America.
T I have a lift of members of the society—to this
' I (hall always be happy to receive additions.—
Fafls, also, identifying the memherfhip of anv
individual whatever, will be ufeful and necefia
- ry. When as complete as I can make it, the
f names of the whole of them (hall be published,
. from the gloomy, close-working, cut-throat
looking son of Galen, to the fatuitons and fpat
c tering Bookl'eller, though the knives of the
* I whole bloody gang were at my breast. Similar
lifts should be cdleiUd every where, and the
r villains dragged forth to light. For light to them
■ is death.
e
t When their majesties of France, invaded Ire
. land, they set forth one of their objefls to be,
r the restoration of the Irish to the unrestrained
3 enjoyment of the Catholic worship, for that
I they themfelveß, being Catholics, the talk would
*I be peculiarly grateful to them. To the Pope, 1
1 j when they invaded his territory, .unbounded
. profeflions of refpecl an"! reverence were held ,
> out, and he was acknowledged as U)e legitimate <
) and divine Pastor of the Holy Catholic Church '
, Universal. To the Muflelmen, they exhibit
themselves in the light of true believers in the '
Mahometan faith, and Suonaparte would no
' doubt perform a« many genuflexions per diem, •
r as Abu Bekr is said to have done, to get poflef
r fion of the treasures of Conflaotinople or of
: India. Thus these blaspheming Frenchmen,
. I amidst all the aberrations of their infidelity, '
t prove that th«y i-aaietnber at least one paflage in
- the Bible, by becoming W/ things so all men.
" j Some people are led to fuppcrfe, that be
'j cause the Arabs are a loose and disorderly
banditti, that the army of Buonaparte) be
[ ing so powerful and well-appointed, must
' triumph overall their efforts. But there are
' a number of eircumftances. abftra&ed from
E the consideration of physical force, which
! | mud operate the deltruftio'n of the French.
' j A celebrated traveller (who was afterwards
sent by the Dire&ory, to find how the wind
blew in America) tells us, that from March
to November, the heat to an European, is
[ almost infupportablc,—that dur ng this
' whole season, the air is inflamed, the flcy
sparkling, and the heat oppreffxve to all un
r j accuflomedto it. The southerly winds are
I by the natives called " poisonous winds."
® These are of such extreme heat and aridity, ;
that nd animited body exposed to thenj can
withfland their fatal influence. During !
the three davs that they generally last, the <
r streets are defe t d ; and woe to the travel- ]
j ler whom this wind surprises remote from
shelter. When it blows longer than three I
P days, it is infupportablc. The inhabitants <
are often almost blinded by drift* of sand. '
All these comforts mud be peculiarly accept- :
able to an army accustomed to contend with i
no other oppoiition thao the force of the
feeble and effeminate Italians, or the dif- ]
pirited and broken legions of the Emperor.
Besides, it is the very disorder of the Arabs; (
which renders them fotmidable. They are ]
an invisible enemy. Mounted on horfej as
fleet as the wind, and seldom moving in a
large mass, they beset their enemy in small ]
I dttachments beat up his quarters, cut off ;
his convoys, and harrafs hi* men with in
ceflant alarms. It is in vain they are pur
sued, and the nature of their warfare ex
empts them from the poflibility ot defeat.
The emperor Julian marched an army of ' (
50,000 men agaiuft barbarians of the fame [ j
nature, chara&er, and, in part, of the fame !
country. His foroe was felefted from the t
flower of his army, and the belt appointed of j
the empire. A rapid tide of success marked j
his career, 'till, arrived at the Banks of the <
Euphrates, he was prevailed on, by some
irifidious Zopyrut, to destroy his fleet and j
transports. Julian still advanced—but he
advanced to deftruftion. The barbarians
incefla»tly hovered round him, and were $
no sooner dispersed on the one hand, than I
they appeared in greater numbers on the I
other. Irritated at the vexations of an ene- a
my he deemed contemptible, he attacked, j
dispersed and ptirfued them on all fides, af
ter killing immeofe numbers of them. In |
three days Julian was no more; and his ar- j
my. reduced to one quarter of its number, c
capitulated with the depifed enemy. The •
fate of General Braddr.ck and his army, of
General Harmar, of General St. Clair, are £
inllances (trongly in point, and demonstrate c
the inevitable dangers that attend a remote t
warfare a lavage or barbarous enemy, t
Discipline is no qualification to an army c
that has to contend with such enemies ; the J
gre.ueft veterans beccrac the surest prey* j
f
L Whoever give# to these confiJeratiuns their
true force, must be persuaded that the
mighty hofl of Buonaparte, long ere 'his
day, lie scattered lifelefs o'er the sands of
Egypt; and I only wish.that instead of 30,
he had 300,000 mtn with him.
The fix fallowing flutes have ratified, in
'he following order, the amendment to the ;
constitution, proposed by the state of Mas
sachusetts,—and wh ch goes to the exclnfion
of foreigners from the office of President .
and Vice Prefid;nt, and from a feat in either .
it house of congress, vir.
Massachusetts, j
New-Hampshire,
New-York, ,
f Rhode-Island,
Vermont ar.d one other.
So that the 4nal adoption of thi» salutary J
and necessary amendment to the Constitution r
may be considered as certain.
Mr Gallatin doubtless views with much 1
concern the approaching period t<r his patri
otic labors. How cruel was it to lay a plot -
whi' h must inevitably cut short the melliflu- J
ous warblingi of his tuneful tongue. j
With whatever reluftance the horrible ex
ample before our eyes may induce us to '
view innovation, everv patriotic American J
must rejoice in the proTpedl of having exo ic J
revolutio izers excluded from our councils,
at a time when we find the in rigues of our
own varlets a match for all our watchful
nefs and energy.
The miraculous traveller, Eruce, tells
u« of a euftom, prevalent amongfl the E- 1
gyptians, of cutting fleakes off the haunch-!
es of live cattle. This practice may prove j
extremely convenient to tht French under j
Buonaparte—lt is certainly extrpmely con
genial to the humanity of their natures.
It is supposed by some, that owing to
the famed fertility of Egypt, and its abun
dance in corn and every kind of grain, the ■
French will find little difficulty in supply
ing an army of 30,000 men. But as the .
harvell is in the month of March, and Bu- ,
onaparte's arrival took place in August,
> these calculations are probably deceptive.
The second Seflion of ths sixth Con
gress, commences in Philadelphia, this day
j I week, conformably to the Constitution.
t , ; —:
i The French prisoners confined at New
, Castle, attempted lately to break jail, but •
' were restrained by the vigilance and aftivity •
' of the keepers. It is not improbable they
; had received intimation of the design to
t transport them back to their blessed land of
. liberty, and that they were animated to ;
> this attempt by a desire to escape the difa- '
, greeable destiny. •
f A gentleman contends that the Babarity
' of an enemy can be no source of alarm to
' the French ; as this has long been a conspi
cuous trait of their republicanifjn, hav
ing, by long praAice refined it itito system,
. they are unquestionably the greatest Barba
r riai.s in the Univerft. ,
t We are happy to find that the serious ]
: attention of the citizens has at length been 1
i turned to an objeft of the lafl importance
1 to us all—the means of preventing the fu
. ture introdudion of the Yellow-Ft-ver into
3 the city.
/ A committee has been appointed, at a
1 meeting of citizens to confer with the Board
3 of Health, on the fele&ion of such judicious
j and intelligent persons in each ward as can '
r be found willing to undertake the business,
. who may, when clothed with due authority
; from the Board, examine and afeertain what 1
' houses and what bedding there miy appear '
, good grounds to believe are infefted, and to '
1 use the proper means of purification : Also, '
r to devise ways and means to raise fnffi
; cietit funds to carry into execution the pur
. poses of their appointment. 1
1 The above mentioned committee has also 1
: been constituted a committee of correfpon- ]
i dence, for the purpose of communicating
with the principal towns in the Union, and
. a circular letter has been written, accord
-1 ingly.
A memorial has further been prepared for 1
. presentation to the state Legifiature.
The Committee above mentioned, consists f
; of the following Gentlemen. r
Northern Liberties ; George Budd, George
Ingles, Joseph Cowperthwait.
For the City.
, North Mulberry Ward ; Godfrey Haga.
South Mulberiy Ward ; Tliamas Allibone. r
Upper Delaware ; Nicholas Dithl.
Lower Delaware ; Jonathan Willis. c
High Stree* ; Mahlon Hutchinfon.
North Ward ; Charles Pleafants.
' Chefnut Ward ; John Stille.
j Middle Ward ; Isaac Paxfou.
j Walnut Ward ; Ebenezer Large.
South Ward Thomas Harrifon.
; Dock Ward ; Miers Fisher.
New Market Ward ; Thomas Attmore. w
Southwark ; Robert Jones, Joseph Marsh, h
Jun. Richard Tittermary. 1
Moyamenfing ; Joseph Burd.
The trial of the French privateers Jalnux and
Sam Pareil, prizes to the Uhited States and
Delaware, comes on to-morrow before the
Diflri& Court of the United States, now fitting
at Philadelphia.
ExtraS of a letter from Wilmington, North
i Carolina, dated Nrvember 3d, 1798.
! " Since my last, almost all the remaining
part of this unfortunate town, has been ileftroy
ed by fire. It broke out about two o'clock in
the mornii.g, in a large house ntcupied by one
• Parish, nearly adjoining Henry (Trguhart,which
destroyed all that square up to the market, and
down to Mailer's—thence icrofs to the square
of which my store made a corner, and swept
the whole up to Berquin's large house, one or
two small buildings excepted, 1 suppose about
one hundred and thirty. Sixty houfes j
ware-houses ar.d stores were consumed. ll
flopped at Bernard's, without consuming his ,
house."
*stut/iortty.
APPOINTMENTS
IN THK NAVY OF THE UNITED STATES. (
t Thomas Tingey, captain.
Jonathan' Chapman, captain.
Samuel Barron, captain for the brigpurcha
: fed by the citizens of Norfolk, Peters
burg and Richmond.
Moses Tryon, captain. .
Moses Brown, captain. ■ .
John M'Rea, lieutenant for brig Norfolk. I
Peulip Brum, firft mate of revenue cutter
Eagle.
Nathaniel Pearfon, 2d mate do. do.
•Samurl Gilnoan, 3d mate do. do.
p John Hart, furgeoa'a mafe Tfof the Retalia
( tion.
Thomas Robbins, midshipman do.
Thomas Reynolds, surgeon do.
| Samuel Hayward, captain for galleys at
Charleston
. James Payne, captaia.
Jeffrey Dillon Shally, surgeon for Mootezu •
ma.
Michael Titcomb, jun. of Newburyport
Ift lieutenant.
( Samuel Chafe, do. 2d do.
t Jonathan Titcomb, jun. do. failing mailer.
. David Stickney, do. id lieutenant
of marines.
[ Nathaniel Bradftreet, do. furg?on.
Joseph Hooper, do. puri-r.
Joseph Brum, do. midlhipcan.
Nathan Fletcher, do. do.
( Francis Salter, do. gunner.
John Couch, do. carpenter.
I James Boufh, of Norfolk, Ift lieutenant.
, John Ballard, do. 2 ! do.
, John Cowper, do. lai!ing<cnaller.
Richard H. L. Lawfon, ditto midshipman.
Roe Latimer, do. do.
Buller Cocke, do. purser.
Robert Hamilton, of New-York, iftlieute
nant of marines.
John Waddell, of Trenton, id do.
Lloyd S. Daubeny, ot New-York, ift do.
Abrer Woodruff of Trenton, midshipman.
William Lewis, do. do.
Theodore Hunt, do. do.
' James Lawrenca, of Burlington, do.
Miligau Alston, do. do.
William Carmichael, of Eastern-shore, Ma
ryland, tcidfhipman.
George Hughes, Burlington, purler.
John S. Lewis, of New-Jersey, 2d lieute
nant of marines.
John Maine, of South-Carolina, do. do.
John F. Randolph, of Georgia, captain of
a Galley in Georgia.
) John Braddock, do. do. do.
p Wilson Jacobs, Ift lieutenant.
( John Warner, 2d do.
Zachariah Rhodes, 3d do.
Joseph Lee, surgeon.
George A. Hallowell, failing mailer.
John Martin, purser.
Arnold Whipple, midshipman.
John C. Kir.nicutte, do.
Wilson Jacobs, jun. do.
CAME to the plantation of
the fubferiber, on the eighth mftant, a large red
COW, about eight yflprs <jld, nearly dry and very
J poor. The owner 11 delired to come, prove his
, property, pay charges and take her away, or (he
, will be disposed of according to law.
JOHN SHOEMAKER, Junr.
Montgomery county, ">
> Cheltenham townfliip nov. 14 ) m3t
1 Philadelphia, N vernier 26, 179,8.-
1 A LI. persons dofirous of £urnifliing by eonrrjdl
, jTx. rations of provisions, draw and fuel, for all 1
the troops, which now ars, or hereafter may be
at any or every Ration, post, encampment, re
' cruiting rerdczvous or eliewhere in the date of
' Pennfylvama, !or and during the y«ar i'9y, ep
; cept at pretqu' I(le, La BceiifF, Fort Franklin and
Pittfturg—will be pleased to l'-nd in their propo
( sal* undtr foaled covers, on or before the 20th of
next month, December, to
TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor.
THE RATION TO CONSIST OF
I 1-4 pound of beef or 3 4 of a pound of pork
1 18 ounces of bread or flour
I gill of rum, brandy or whHkey.
2 quarts of fait
4 quarts of vinegar ( „
4 pounds of soap ( For ,vet * 100 rat,on3 -
I i-»lb.candles. J
As Congrefi may at their next fefCon make al
terations in the quai; tity of iome of the compo
nent parts of this rarior—it is requeued of those
who may offer proposals to name the price of each
part, which will fervcto govern in cafe of dimi
nution or increase. >
nov. »6 tu,w&th tioD
■
Millenery Room,
No. 136, Market Street.
THREF. or four young women who are well ac
quainted with the Millenery business, and 1
can bring good recommendations may be employ
ed t,y applying as above to
D. CHRYSTAL.
Nov. 16 £
Tlx time of an A dive
BLACK BOY,
WHO is about sixteen years old, and has five
years to serve, to be disposed of He is
well acquainted with the business of a farm, and
handy at cooking or waiting 111 the hsufe. En
quire at the office of thi. Gazette. '
nov. 26 eo2w
Forfait by the fubferibers t ]
A FIW BALKS OF (
WOOLENS,
Containing Cloths & Blankets, 1
150 bales bengal mufiius I
ao do. Madras handkerchiefs, elegant oat- |
terns ' " .
40» pieces Ruflia {heeting
10 boxes umbrellas
a quantity of caflia
30 tans PeterJbaag clean hemp
*5 pipes, 3 years old, fineft particular Ma
deira wine
a quantity of iheathing copper
Mordecai Lewis.
Nov. a 6 diw
*** An Apprentice will be
taken at this office, if immediate applica
tion it mad?. Nov. 23.
j " .NO I ICp.
1 A LI. pffo-s InjJeLtcJ to the estate.at.P. Ki(«
I iV felmaurfeceafed, are rrqueftW to rrkVe ir. .-
| mediate payment, anil diofc having demands s«
I gainst the said *(\atc, are desired to produce the
I faire to JACOB 15" F„ RISSELMAN for settle
ment, who are empowered'by
Susannah Kiflelman,
Adminijlratnx,
Ihe Bufinefj »f F. Kiflelman deceeajtd,
11 CONTINUED ay
I Jacob fc? Jred. KisselmaM,
WHO HAKE FOR SALS,
Jamaica Spirit*
Weft India and Country Rum
Holland and Country Gin
Coffee
Sherry ""J
Lift»On f
Port, and \ WIN£ S-
Malaga J
nov. 26 att
FOR NEW-TOR K,
ir. >ry THE SHIP
I|(FX> GHESAPEAK;
J*mes IVebb, mafler,
WILL fail in a tew days and take freight at a
low rate—Apply to captain Webb on board at
John Wall'* wharf, or to
Walker & Kennedy.
nov 36 r? 4t
Wanted to Purchase,
A SHI P,
THAT will carry from two to t\rce
Oi:ulan<i barrels, completely ctjuippid for 1.1.
Appl v at No. I*B, Spruce ftre«
nov. 16
advertisement.
Todd & iViott.
Of the Ci'y of Philadelphia, Merchants, having
a Signed over their effe&s, real, peKonal, and
mixed, to the faHcribers for the benefit of ali
their Creditor—
Notice is hereby Given,
TO all perfons-who are indebted to the faicV
eltate, that they are required to make im
mediate payment of tbeir refpeaiTC accounts to
either of the aflignees, in failure whereof, legal
measures will be taken for the recovery of such
debts as are not discharged without delay.
John IVaddington ~l
John Rhodes t Ailigneo.J
John Allot. J
nov - tu.th&fatFi
George Davis's
LAW-800 K STORE,
No. 319 High-Street,
Latest London £s? Irish Editions.
GEORGE DAVIS's P«u importation is now
arranged of which a more capital collec
tion he believes was never offered for laic either
in this City, London or Dublin It combines
almost every book in,with several valuable books
out of print. Davis's confining himfelf to the
sale of Law-Boeks only, it will appear obvious
to profeffional Gentlemen, the advantages they
, have both in fele«£tion and price by purchasing
from him.
His Catalogues being ready, gentlemen will
particularly oblige him by calling for them—
and to those residing at a diftaace, hy fovoring
him with their address (poft-paidj they (hall be
feflt.
* ov m&tham
• I 1
Charles Campbell,
IV A T C H-fyl A K E R.
HAS removed to the Shop formerly occupied
by Mr. "John IVood, No, r5, corner of
Front and Chefnut-ftreets ; where he will thank
fully receive and execute orders with neatness
and dispatch
HE HAS CONSTANTLY ON HAND,
A Neat and Large Aflortment of
Clocks Watches.
wanted,
A JOURNETMAN ;
ALSO, otie or two Apprcmices of refyena
ble parents.
FOR SALE,
A large quantity of Watch Glasses
Whole/<ilc and Retail.
nov 2 * , 3 awtf
DESERTED,
FROM the (hip of war Vela-ware, undeifthe com
mand of the fubferiber, two seamen, viz.
Francis Cazenate, a Porfugutfe, aged 18, about
S feet 6 inches high, dark complexion, black eyes
and hair, speaks French and Spanilh fluently, and
tolerable good Enghfh. Also,
Thivas Pendergrait, an Etiglifhman, aged »6, a
bout 5 feet 7 inches high, light hair, frefh cumplw
ion and blue eyes.
Whoever apprehends said deferters.andde'ivers
them on board any ftiip 6f war belonging to the
United States, or lodges thim in goal (hall receive
10 dollars reward, or 10 dollars for either of them.
(Signed) STEPHEN DECATUR.
2 4 dipt
Ephraim Clark,
CLOCK & WATCH MAKER,.
Corner of Front and Market ftrects, Philadelphia,
HAS JUST RECEIVED,
BY the different arrivals, a large supply of Clock
and Watch makers and.Silver Smiths Tools,
files and materials,
CONSISTING OF
Rowi jig Mills, large and l'mall Bench and Hand
Vices, Yurnbenches, Plyers, Sliding Tongs, Bra
ces and Bitts, Grooving tools, Saws, Scratch brnlh
cf, Blow pipes, Screw and Draw plates,large and
final) Hammers, Clock dials, taft brass Bells, for
ged w*rk andpiniors, Enery, Rotten (lone, Pu
mice Hone, Borar, Spcl'er Sorder, Brass, Steel and
Iron wire, fheec Bras*, main springs and glares
gold, gilt, and steel chains, seals and keys, &c. Ac.
C 3" Clocks and Watches carefully repaired
"Qv- it tidtf
' FOR SALE,
By Fishbourn Wharton,
at No. itg South Fourth-Jlreet.
China Ware,
Nankeens
, Teas
Lutestrings, &
Silk Shawls.
nov 13 odtfFOR SALE,
By George Plumsted,
No. 166. South Fiokt Stiiet.
a«o«»kolc lit ices J „
loo'hilf do. j KICI .
35 Boxes white Havanna Sugars, entitled to
dt.wh#ck
2,000 pieces Kar,keens, do. do.
Anchors weighing i7cwt. and i6cwt.
160 boxes containing tea setts of China
3S boxes of blue and white table fettlof do.
ALSO,
Boxes containing breakfaft, coffee and even
ing cups and saucers ; tea pots, cream pots, su
gar diffies, pint bowls, custard cups, flat and
soup plates and difties.
Youlig Hyson Tea
Fans
CafSa.
Nov. 3tawiw
Imported
in the brig Eliza, capt. Peterfon,from
Leghorn,
A SMALL (QUANTITY OF THE FOLLOWING AR
TICLES,
Bologna crape
Cambricks assorted
Silk (lockings
Fans
a few fancy ribbons
Cotton blankets icc. &c. manufa&urad at
Lucca
Pots and flicks of pomatum
Wash-balls, &e.
a lew jars Gorgona anchovies
a small aflortment of Drugs, &c.
And in the Louisa, capt. Kean,from
Bordeaux,
8c cafcs, containing 3 dozen each,
Old Irilh Claret,
of a superior quality,
40 dozen old Sauturne Wine,
of a superior quality.
FOR SALE BT
James Latimer, jr.
Nov. to eodzw
~ LANDING,
From on board <he Brig Amiable Matilda,
Richard Stites, Matter, from Cape
Nichala Mole.
43 Pains Soeks and Flannel Drawers "| W
jS Do Gaiters 1 3" J 1 "
a lio. Rug. I % Z
I Do. Havre Sacks r ° «
a Do. Flannel Trowfcrs ' 3 3" 3
a Do. Tents, j e
Also just Imported,
In rhc Ship Chesapeake, Captain Webb, f.om
Liverpool,
147 Crates of Queen's Ware,
Assorted particularly to i'uit the Weft-India
Market—For Sale by
Thomas Js" John Ivetland.
November 7 5
Bond 6c Brooks,
Corner of Market and Sixth street?,
hate received,
by the late arrivals from London, Liver
pool and Hull,
A Large and general assorment or
DRY GOODS,
Which they arc now open rg for sale, at the mod
reduced prices, for cash or the usual credit.
A,capital Stand for Business
TO let,
That large and commodious HOUSE, no. 39,
feHth Front flreet, dire<Sly opposite the Pod-Office,
together ith the (lore and cellar, on the Watcr
dttet Cdc. Enquire as ab jve.
nov- 17 $_
The Creditors
Of William Steedman and John Smith, of
the County of Northumberland, in the
State of Pennsylvania, lately trading un
der the Firm of
Stefdman Smith,
WILL TAKE NOTICE, that the Subfcribert
have made application to the Judges of the
Court of Common Pleas for the County of Nor
thumberland aforefaid, for he benefit of the several
laws of che State of Pennsylvania' pafled for the
rwiefof infolvont Debtors, and that the said Court
hath appointed the Thirtieth day, of November
nott, being the Friday of the Court of Common
Pleas, to hear us and our Credito's at Sunbury, in
the County of Northumberland, at which time and
place you may attend if you think proper.
WILLIAM STEEDMAN.
JOHN SMITH.
Northumberland, November i, 1798.
novemhar 7 iawjw
To the Creditors
Of Will'm M'Clelland, of Northumberland
County, in the State of Pennsylvania.
TAKE NOTICE,
THAT I have applied to the Judges ofthe Court
oi Common Pleas, in and for the County sf
Northumberland, for the benefit of the several laws
®f r ennfvlvania, pafled foi the relief of Insolvent
Debtors; and the Judges of the said Court have ap
pointed the Thirtieth day of November inO. it be
ing the Friday of the court of Common Pleas for
the County of Northumberland, to heai me and
my Creditors at the Court House in Sunbury, at
which time and place my Creditors may attend if
they think proper.
Wm. Mc. CLELAND.
Northumberland, November I, 1798.
r.ovember 7. iaw3w
For Sale,at the Stores of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut Areet Wharf,
19; calks of nails assorted
ao bales ef fail canvass, from No. I to 8
53 calks yellow ochre
1; tierces bottled porter, 6to 14 doz. each
Sifirit"'"! MM " Win "
Tenenffe do. in hoglheadsand pip
Old Port do. in hhd«.
Empty Claret bottles
6cafesof Ginghams,Dimities,Muflinets Acc.
assorted for the Weft-India market
4, 10, andg inch cablesand 10 coils of cordage
Writing fiates, ink (lands and prefles
10 puncheons Jamaica rum
1 bale seaming twine
(6o bundles fheatbing paper
Nicklin (j* Griffith.
April 7 tuth&f.tf
10 Be Let,
And immediate pcjfcffion Given,
A COM MOD lOUS Three Story Brick House
il with convenient back buildings, situated
at the north weft corner of Third and Walnut
ftreeU.—For terms apply to
Dr. THOMAS PARKE.
No. ao, South Fourth Street.
OAotxr a, dtf
John Dobbin,
BOOT y SHOEMAKER.
RESPECTFULLY informs his Friends and
the Public in general that he carries on his
business at No 99 South Srrond-Jlrct t, nearly op
posite the Merchmts Coffee house where gen
tlemen may be ftipplied in the rrirateft and belt
1 manner—he afllirej :hufe who may pleale to fa-
Vor hirn with their commands that no attention
br exertion on his fide (ball be wanting to render
him worthy of their encouragement.
N. B. Ordersreceired will bepunilually at
tended to.
November 5
. Mailt for South-Carolina Georgia,
1 T) A CKETS are now provided for carrying the
A Public mailsby water between Philadelphia
and Charlefion. They will leave Philadelphia
on Friday's. Thepoftby land will be continu
ed twice a week antil an experiment is made in
regard to the expedition and regularity of the
packets. If any perfoti chufes to have their
letters sent by land only, they will please to
write the word Land upon the letters : other -
! wife they will be sent by that conveyance which
will firft start after the letters are left in the
pot-effice.
Joseph Haberfham,
Pqjl-Majier Gemtrl.
Philadelphia, Augujl 13, 1798. §
Bank of the United States
November 19, 1778.
NOTICE,
r_ pHE STOCKHOLDERS of the 3ank of the
JL United States are informed, that according to
the Statute oflncorporaticn,a for
twenty-five DireiSlors will be held at the Bank of
the United States, in the City of Philadelphia, on
Monday, the 7th of January next, at xo o'clock in
the forenoon.
And pursuant to ihe elev«iit!i feflion of the bye
laws, the Stockholders of the (aid Bark are also
notified to afTemble in general meeting, at the
fame place, on Tuesday, the Bth of January next,
at 6 o'clock in >he evening.
G. Simpson, Cashier.
Second Fundamental Article.
Net more than three fourths of the Directors in
office, exclusive of the President, lhall be eligibls
lor the next ensuing year, but the Direflor who
(hall be President at the time of an elc-fUoH, may
always be re.;lejSted.
November 16 m.tE
Urttverf'y of Pennsylvania,
Nov. 13, 1798.
The Medical Leftures, in the University,
will adually commence on Monday, the 26th
of this month. §\j6
„ ~ cEFTTHtTOFFICE ~
of the Board of Commissioners, under
the 6th Article of the Treaty of Amity,
See. with Great Britain, is returned to
No. 129 Mulberry street.
Nov. 12.
Horses to Winter.
HORSES taken in to Win er at Peel Hall
Farm, two miles from the City on the
Wiffahickon road.The terms may be known at.
No la, North Third-street*
nov ii eodiot
NOTICE.
SAMUEL RICHARDET, informs the Gentle
men Subscribers, that tli# EXCHANGE
is opened for their recep-ionand the CITY
TAVERN, for Gentlemen arid Travellers
Lad Spring added an addition of twelve Bed
Chambers to the fide building, which makes It
perfectly convenient.
November 6 taw
Printing ORK,
Of Every Kind,
EXECUTED AT THE SHORTEST
NOTICE,
At the OFFice of the Gazette of the
United States,
06t. 13. dtf.
JAMAICA RUM,
A Cargo now landing at SouthJlrtct wharf,
FOR SALE BT
PETER BLIGHT,
Apply at Stores on the Wharf,
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SALI,
BRANDY, id and 4th proof
Madeira and Port WINES, &c. See.
Nov. I- dtf
FOR SALE,
AT THIS OFFICE,
A FEW Copies of an interesting Work, in
French, entitled a History of
The Administration of the French
Finances,
DURING THE TF.AR 1706.
Also, An Historical and Political View of the
Administration of the French Republic, during
the year 1797,—ef the causes which produc
ed the
Revolution of the \th September—
And of the refulu of that Revolution.
PRICE I HOLLAR EACH.
These two political trafls, are from the pen
of the celebrated d'lvernois.and contain a thou
sand interesting disclosures of the folly, venality
and profiigacy of the different Usurpers who
have reigned in France during the latter fiages
of the horrible Revolution how pending in that
miserable and depraved country.
Nov. 3. f
To be Let,
AND POSSESSION GIVEN
ON THE I4TH APRIL ||| Xr
THE CITY TAVERN,
Now in the pofftflirm of Samuel Richardet.
Apply at this Office,
novamber 13
REMOVAL.
THE SUBSCRIBERS have removed their Office
from the corner of Eleventh Street, to their former
Counting House, No. 11, Penn Street.
Millings &? Francis.
N»*«mb«r 3 5
Shoe Thread, spun by the Poor,
k quantity of excellent
SHOETHREAD,
For sale, by
Newberry Smith, N0.56 North 2dJlreet,
and lfacic F. Htpper, No. 39 Pinefireet.
THE benevolent by purchafmg
of the above Thread will promote the endea
vors of a number of Persons, who hare colledt
ed a small fund which is appropriated to the
jlurpofe (jf finding employ for the Poor,
ilthrao. 19th cod3t
' forty Dollars Reward.
deserted, >
From a Detachment of Men utrier my com
mand, at Cdmf ll'ejl Schuylkill, viz.
Otfober 19.
GEORGE KELLER, 40 years of age, 5
feet 6 inches in height, dark hair and
complexion, born in Holland, no Trade, speaks
broken Erglilh and very talkative, has a di/nplc
in his chin.
November 6. John Murphy, 27 years of
age, 5 feet 7 \ inches in height, grey eves, dark
hair and complexion, born in Ireland, city of
Dublin, by trade a Hozier.
Jacob Iden, 34 years of age, s feet 6 inches
high, grey eyes, fandyhair, frefii complexion,
born in New-England, state of Conneilicut, a
repeated deserter, by trade a Blacksmith.
, November 7. William Collins, 3oyeais of
age, j feet 6 inches high, sandy hair, frelh com
plexion, grey eyes, born in Ireland, county ol
Wexford, by trade a Gardn;f, has worked for
some time about Philadelphia, be is very fond
to hear hjmfeif Sing.
All the above deserters are very much addict
ed to liquor, and will take other people's pro
pcrty if in their power, are artificially marked
on their backs, had on, when they went away,
thuir regifnental clothing. Whosoever appre
hends said deserters, (hall receive forty dollars
reward, or ten dollars for each, with all reason
able expences, by applying to meas above,
EDWARD MILLER, captain
id regiment of Infantry commanding.
nov 10 $
Goods tor Baltimore,!
Will be received at the (lores of, and for-iuarded
BY THE SUBS-CRIIJERS,
WHO, if they arc delivered so them proper
ly dircded and in order, will be ac
rountable (with the exception of accidents) for
their fafe carriage. Due attention will be paid to
dispatch.
Levi Holl'ingsivorth & Son.
nor. 16 diot
Lo Let,
A FRONT PARLOUR W CJtAMBiR,
Geentif.lly FuHNISHEb,
With or without at
No. 38, Arch street*
november 17 dtf
ALL PERSONS having any legal demands a
gainfl the estate of iVillinm ilim, iL flrd,
late of the city of Philadelphia, Tavern keeper, are
requested to furnifh thtir accounts properly au
thenticated, and all persons indebted to said estate
are r.*q Jetted to make payment to the fubfenber ill
Philadelphia.
LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH Adminr.
Oftobcr 3111, 1798.
DISTRICT OF PENNSYI.VANIA,TO WIT :
BE IT REMEMBERED,
THAT on the twelfth day
V )of August., in the twenty third year of
' A the Independence of States of
America, Benjamin Smith Barton, of the said dif
tricl, hath deposited in this office the title ol a
book the right whereof he claims as author in the
words following to wit :
" New Views of the Origin of the Tribes and j
" Nations of America—By Etnjamin Smith Bar
" ton, M. D. Corrtfpondent Member of the Socie
ty of the Antiquaries of Scotland, Member of
" the American Philosophical Society, Fellow of
" the American Academy of Arts and Sciances of
" Boston, Correfpondidg Member of the MajTa
" chufetts Historical Society, and ProfelTor of
" Materia jMnclica, Natural History and Botany
" in the Univer.ity of Pennsylvania."
In cor.l'orniity to the ail of the Congress of the
United Statc»£intitled * An a& for the encouraga
ment of learnhig by securing the copies of maps, ,
charts,and books, to the authors and proprietor,
of such copies during the timesther»in meutionad.'t
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk, Dill, of Penn'
November a, 1798.
ALL PERSONS, 1
HAVING demands againit the Estate of '
Henry Schabfer, deceifed, lateofthe '
City of Philadelphia, Malfter and Shopkeeper '
are requested to jurnilh their accounts properly
authenticated and all persons indebted to said :
Estate are desired to make speedy payment to '
CASPAR W. HAINES, ) , . a
FREDERICK GAUL, j flrators. (
nth mo. 13
NOTICE "
To Owners of Carriages, and
Ritaile&s of Wine Spirits. '
IN consequence of the late Epidemic in this
City, numbers have neglefted to enter their
Carriages, also the retailers of Wine and Spi
rits to call and take out their Licences. The '
returning health of the City, the Office is re- ;
moved from Germantown to its former place, ''
No. 49 North Third-street, where those who '
have negiedled must call and pay the duty on 1
their Carriages, and those retailers take out theii '
Licences Their ready compliance will prevent *
incurring the penalty of the Law.
JAMES ASH, Collector
of the lft Survey of the \ft
~, . DiviJSon of Pennsylvania. j
Philadelphia, Office of InfpedUsn )
No. 49, Nerth Third-street. S
£3* The STAMP-PKESS it kept at this
Office.
nov 9 wiw&fjw
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
June 17, i7dß' I
Notice is hereby given, That by v't- c
tue of an atft, parted during the prafent fef- t
"j 0 " ef Conerefs, so much of the a<a entituled c
An A3 making further provision for the sup
port of public credit, and far the redemption t
"of the public debt"—passed the third day of t
March, ene thousand seven hundred and ninety- i
five, as bars from settlement or allowance, ,
Certificates, commonly called Loan Office and
final settlement Certificates, and Indents of In
ferefls, is suspended until the twelfth day o
June, which will be in the year one thousand seven 3
hundred and ninety nine.
r I!?' the U< l uida tion and settlement of the "
laid Certificates, and Indents of Interest, nt the
Treasury the Creditor, will be entitled to receive ,
Certificates of funded Three Per Cent. Stockequa 1
to the amount of the said Indents, and the arrear
r ? thdr said Prior (
to th* firft day of January one thousand fcven
hundred actd ninety one.
That the principaHums of the said Loan Office !
and final settlement Certificates, with the interest
fand e f« n ' fin "^ efirftd jy ot January, one thou- 1
fandfeven hundred and ninety one, willbedif
chirged after liquidation at the Trewfury, by the
payment of interest and reimburftment of princi
pal, equal to the sums which would have been '
P cTc -t t^ ereon ' ,f the said Certificates had been '
fubfebed pursuant to the Ads making provision
for the debts of the United States, contradcd d«r- !
mg the late war, and by the payment of other
sums equal to the market vMue of the remaining
Stock, which would have been created by such
fubfcriptiont asaforefaid, which market value will
be determined by the Comptroller of theTreafurv
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Suretary of tic Trtafun.
' UDt law,7
T HOMiS. y joSIJUA fI.SHER,
No. 5, Dock-Street,
HAVE FOR. SALE,
I M PORTED IN DIFKfRSNT Vt3SttS,
A general assortment of
Coarse and fine Woolens,
7-3 & 4-4 Irish Linens, Shae'iiigs, Tickens &c.
Sciflet atid Cloth colored Cardinals
Hats in boxes of it dozen each
China, Nankeen Dining ferts and cups &. fauoers
Black Lutestrings, Taffatys and Sattins
Pungem Cloths and Hiimhtims, Blue and Red
Cotton, Chappals and Pullicat Romalls
China and Englilh Umbrellas
T. Crowley Millington Steel
Tin in Boxes 1-3 x
Shot, trying Pans and Weeding Hom
6d, Bd, lod, i*d Nails, isfc. iffc.
II th months daw
rcTBE RENTED
VN T I.L NIX T CI-aiNS,
And fojfeffion delivered immediately.
A HANDSOME and commodious three
(lory HOUSE, in Walnut-ftrcet near
Third-flreet, No. 58.
It has two rooms on a floor, with a ftaii-wav,
Kitchen and Wafb-houfe back, together with a
convenient yard opening upon Pear-street
and is well calculated to accommodate either a
private family, or hoarders. The terms are ea
sy and will be made known upon application to
the Cashier of the Bank of Pennfylva»ia.
nov 19
Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries,
of the newelt and meft approved patterns,entitled
to the drawback, jtift received,
ANB FOR SALE BY
Ale*. J. Miller ftf Co.
Mo. 64, South Front ftreeti
may 18. 5
FOR SALE,
The Cargo of the Schr. Sincerity
Benjamin Mouteith Master, from Laguira,
CONSISTING OF
945 Fenegas of Cocoa
4000 lb. of Flora Indigo
210 Bales of Cotton
4 Packages of Goat Skins
By Willing* £3* Francis.
No. Eleventh street.
jiity a: dtf
' A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
JOHN A. SHAEFFER, «fPhiladelphia, who has
for a few year, past been in thi sou! In i ll States,
has had the effrontery to draw several Hills of Ex
change on Timothy Pickering, Ffq. Secretary of
State, and myfclf,and by that means has defrauded
a number of persons of their money, deceiving
them by an exhibition of letters and papers with the
names affixed of divers public characters and repu
table merchants highly recommendatory of said
Shacffer ; to one of thefc papers I find my name
fubferibed, but Ido not know the man ; these arc
villainous forgeries! To prevent further imposition,
1 have to request the printers of Newspapers in the
United States to publilh this far the benefit of their
fellow-citizens. SAMUEL MEREDITH,
Trtafurcr of the United States '
Trw/on, 7"h,\
Oflober 2-4, 1795. }
This Day Published,
And for laleat the Office of the Editor, No.
119 Chefhut-flreet,
(Price \-%tb of a Dollar,)
AN ORATION,
Pronounced July 4, 1798,
At tiereciuefl oLthfi Inhabitants of the Town of
BOSTON, in commemoration of the anni
versary of American Independence.
By Josiah QyrNcr.
",-Tlie inroads upon our public liberty, call
for reparation-!—TJie wrongs we have ftiftained,
call tor—Justice. That Reparation and that
Jfuftice, may yet be obtained, by Union, Spirit,
and Firmness. But to divide and conquer was
the maxim of the Devil in the garden of Eden,
and to disunite and enslave hath been the princi
ple of all bis votaries from that period to the
present."
Observcuiens on the Boston Port-Bill, iStf.p. 78
by the late J. putney, jun.
august II
This Day is Published,
ANDFORSALEBY J. FE N NO, I lp,C HES N U T-S *» R* IT
AN ADDRESS
To the People of Maryland,
ON the origin, progfefs and present state of
French aggreflion. with a sketch of the infamous
attempts t<» degrade the Government of the United
States, and some reflections on the late proceedings
in Congress; written the last of April in the pre
rent year, by a Member of the Hoitfe of Reprefen
tativw. § juneu
■
JOHN SHIELDS,
BROKER, I
Embraces to present his thanks ,
to Ins fello<iu-citiztns for their pajl favors ,
and acquaints them that he is returned from (
Chefnut-Hill, to his former residence, the
House ho. »a Chefnnt between Front 1
and Second-street,
"VTTHERE he holds himfelf readv to execute J
* V their commands in every branch of his
profeffion, trtfting that from a residence in this
city of 35 years he has it in his power to render
them eflential fervi'ce, alluring them that his
commiflion lhall be as low as any in Town.
Lotts, Lands, Houses, Vefiels, Certificates
of every description and Bill* of Exchange,
bought and fold, thedocketts carefully exam- I
ined and clear titles made upon the Ihortell no-
ticc, by the public's humble servant,
John Shields.
CJ" Good negotiable No«es discounted
it a low premium,
novemher 7 3awtf
■■.' ■ ■ I
yust Imported,
Iron cannon, double fortified, Woolwich proof, '
with their carriages complete—3, 4, 6 and 9
pounders. 1
Carronades, Woqlwinh proof, with carriages, fltc.
complete— la, j 8 and 24 pounders.
Cannon powder in "kegs' of ajlbs. each
Round, double-headed, and cannifter fliot
I'atent Iheathing capper, bright, aflortcd 18, 7,0,
ii, 14, »6 and 18 or per square foot, ftieets 48
by 14 inches, fuitatle for v<ff«ls from 100 to
1000 tons
| Copper nails, bolts and spikes
Boarding Pikes,
Common cutlalfes
liunnera stores of all kinds
I ili-plates No 1-1-3 cross boxes
Patent (hot in calks qf jewt. each
London porter and Mrowu ftaut, in calks ef 7 dot.
bottled.
Earthen wart i H c.ates, aflWted
For Sale ly
SIMON WALKER,
„ „ . Pine near jth street.
October a 9. cu tl
For Sale,
B1 THE SUBSCRIBE R%,
500,006 weight of Java Cofi'j c
OF THE FIRST QUALITY, '
LANDING from onboard the ftiip Cleopatr,
Captain Wills, from Batavia. '
Willings & Francis,
No. 41, P#nn Street
november 16 * *
TORJALE,
By the Subscriber,
Belfaft Canvass, No. 1, to 7
On moderate terms for Cilh or i lhort credit
James Lyle,
South Seventh-Jlreet, near Che/nut.
nov 16
Notice is hereby
That application will be made at the Tret
fury of the United States for the renewal
of the following certificates of Six per Cents
funded debt—standing in the name of R„hJ,
mifau of Calcutta in Bengal, Surgeon in the
service of tht honorable United Company df
merchants of England trading to the Eaft-In.
dies, which were loft from en board the Swal"
low-Packet, capt Kidd, from Falmouth to New.
x,° rk ' o « Do "'- Cti.
No 10,444, Keg. office 14th Dec.
1793, one certificate for jjj. .
No 10,478, Reg. office 17th Dec.
1793 i one certificate for
Ellijion & John Perot,
nov eod6w
NOT I~CK7~
A L f Pfrfon »|>aving claims upon the Efiafe
j ° i a r me j Thorb »rn, Stonecutter, deceaf
*l' Ftl* present thfm for payment—
"nces to ' t0 m fhtir Wpedite bal-
Mrnjaibin W. Mori-it, admrnijlrator.
nov 14
— 3aw?w
TO Bfc RENTED,
( And immediate pojjifficn given,)
\ LARGE three fto.-y BRIiJK HOUSE
-L V situate in Walnut-ftreef— The rooms are*
commodious, airy and private—from which,and
its central pofit ; on, it is thought to be an tliei
bh- nidation for a Public Office. For term*, en
quire of BEN J. IV. MORRIS.
Alp, A commocfkms Ware Houle. in Taw
lor's Alley. '
OiStobtr V). 3tawiw
£duca hon.
Samuel Moon, jun'rs School
IN CHURCH ALLEY,
IS open again, for inflru<9ing Girl, in Reading,
Writing, Arithmetic, Grammar, Geography'
including the Elements of Geometry, and the use
of the Globes—From the great encouragement he
ha» hitherto received, he refpeflfully solicits a con
tinuance of the favours of his Friends and the
Public.
cJ- An Evening School,
For B 0 T S—Kept at the fame place.
rrmo 6th. \)8 iiwiw
- 1 T- ' ' . .
Whereas the certificate of two
(hares of the Bank of the United States in the
name o Samuel Atnory, of London, banker,
No 3ißz,iflued in lieu of 11593, 11594, were
forwarded from London by the Britilh packet
Countefj, of Leicefler, capt. Dodd, bound for
New-York, which packet was captured by the
French, and the fatt certificate lolt; and for the
renewal of which, application is made at said
Hank, ajid all perl'ons concerned are desired t»
take noUc.
CLIENT BIDDLE.
Fhila. Oift. 26, 1798. eo6w
FOR SALK
Rice, in whole and half Tierce*
She.-ry, and} Wl>J _
Tor trifle J WINES.
Carolina and Georgia Indigo.
AND A PARCEL OF
Shipping Furs and Skins.
Apply to
N. £j? J. Frazier,
No. 95, So. Front Street'
november 13 3taw3W
Notice is hereby given,
THAT application will be mad,: to the Treafii.
ry of the United States, for the renewal of tht
following Certificates of Six Per Cent Funded
Stock, (landing in the name of Join Carhonill, ef
London,, the said Certificates having loft on
board the Swallow Packet, Captain Kidd. froa*
Falmouth to New-York.
No. 3072 1 Cert, for zooo dolls. ~l
2964 1 do. 5000 >
IO »5 77 1 do- 3000 j
Willtngs £3" Francis.
Philadelphia, avguft 30. eo6*r
Notice is hereby given,
THAT application will be made to the treafory
of the Wnited States for the renewal of the follow
ing certificates of fix per cents, funded debts, ftand
in the name of 'Jane Oabricih Rigaud t of Geneva,
which were loft Irom on board the Swallow Pacta
et, Capt. Kidd, from Falmouth to New-York.
Go lit.
No. 3195. Reg. office 19th May '95, icert. for 1000
13,181. do. 14th do. do. 1 do. for 3509
Willing & Francis.
R. TAYLOR,
MUSIC PROFESSOR,
NO. 96, NORTH SIX T H-ST REE T,
Respectfully informs the PubKc that
he continues to teach Ladies the J'iant-
Forte as usual.
Nov. 6. tuthsa
Bank of the United States.
November J4, 1798.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
THAT application will be made at the Trea
sury ot the United States for the renewal
of a Certificate of Six per Cent Funded Debt,
No. 15,348, for 18,782 dollars, 33 cents, dated
Register's Office, January Bth, 1798, iflued is
the names of William Willmk, Jan tVtllink,
Nicholas iff Jacob Van Stafiborjl iff Huhbard t
Trustees lor sundry money-lenders in Amster
dam ; which was forwarded the tlthof Janua
ry, 1798, under cover to Nicholas Obbes, esq.
and lolt by the captuie of the ffiip Columbus,
captain Skinner,from New-York for Amfterdatu
G. Simpfon, cq/b'r.
nov 14 iaw6w
Horses to Winter.
HORSES will be taken in to winter at P«8-
stfEc-r Hill, at the 12 Milestone, 011 th«
Cnftol rtud ; they will be well fed witb clover
and timothy hay, well littered and cleaned, and
will also have a large field to exerc'tfe themfelvf
in wlieu the weather is good.—Enquire of Mr.
IVh.tam B.U, mtrehaßt, Watet llrect, or on tlx
ptemifes.
Nov. 7 wf 4