#a itttz of tfje States, AND Philt idelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 17 59. J
For Sale,
The new and fad failing
JOHANNA TUCKER,
- F»ANCI? DaV5, Mafcr,
NOW lying it Pine Street wharf—her length is
sixty eightofeet, breadth twenty feet fin inches, depth
eight feet nin« inches and burthen one hundred and
four 69-95 tons. For terms apply to the Matter
Onboard, or
GEORGE PLUMMET),
No. 168, South Front Street,
april 16 §4t
JUST ARRIVED, ~
In tfce brigGayofo,capt. Bingham,from St.Martins
A quantity of SALT,
of an exccellent quality
A few groce Porter Bottles, new
And twenty calks Vinegar
Alfi, FOR SALE,
Enouire of
Jehu HoUingpworlh Etf Co.
No. li, Little Water (Imet, South,
april to. , §_
For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
195 calks of nails allotted
10 biles f>f fail canvass, from No. I to 8
5 •) calks yellow ochre
1 5 tierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 doz each
London particular ) Ml(1e ; rl Winel
India market J
Teneriffie do. in liogP.ieads And pipes
Old Port do. in hhds.
Empty CU«t bottl»s
6 cases of Ginghams, Dirnities, Muflmcti Ac.
aborted for the Weft-India market
4, 10, and 9 inch cablesand 10 coils of cordage
Writing fiates ir.k Hands and prefles
20 purcheoDs Jamaica rum
I bale seaming twine
160 bundles flieatbing paper
Tlgß BRIG
AMAZON.;
For Sale, or Charter.
Nicklin O" Griffith.
April 7 tothftf.tf
"FOR SALE.
Sagar
100 Hides
Will be landed to morrow, at Willingsand Fran
' cis's wharf, from on board the brig A&ive, Will
iam Williams, matter.
Mr And may take in immedi
ately after discharged.
Apply to
Jehu Hollingfworth & C*.
march 30. ?
For Hamburgh,
THE SHIP
Dominick Terry,
John Fleming, Majier,
great partof her cargo en
cagad.—For freight apply to
Jefe & Robert Wain.
February 16 .
Notice —Agreeably to. charter,
Is hereby given to the members of " the cor
poration fer the relief of poor and diftrefled
presbyterian ministers and the poor and diftrefled
widows and children of presbyterian ministers,
that a meeting of said corporation i& to be hold
en, on the 16th day of May next, at 4 o'clock
P.M. in the second presbyterian church in the
city of Philadelphia, for the dispatch of all such
business as may then J>e brought before the
board. ASHBEL GREEN,
Secretary of the Corporation.
April 7. tawti6m
Joseph Ricardo,
OF this City, Merchant, has afiigned his pro
perty for (Uebefiefit of his Creditors, ts James
C. Filter, Samuel W. Filher, and Thomas Wilson.
All persons who have demands are re
(juefted to furnifh their accounts without delay—
and those indebted t« make immediate payment to
the Subscribers, aiding Allignecs.
James C. C 3* Samuel W. Fisher.
No. 13, Arch Street.
march U 4tawtf
NOTICE.
'"pHRF.H Certificates r.f Six Per Cent. Deferred
L Dcfitof the United SVates of the fallowing
dercription, vii —'N». 1003J, 10034, and 10035.
for 5000 dollars «ach. dated Bth May, 1797» I
Om Jirtg on the hooks as theTreafury oftfieUni
ted States, in the name of Benjamin Waddington,
of Lanover Hoofe, near xbtttgavenney in England,
Esq. have been loft by the capture of the (hipllac
,-hus, from hence to London,ia June loft.—This,
therefore notifies those whom it may concern, that
application will be mad at the Treasury of the U
mted States for a renewal of the fame.
Waddington Ss 5 Harwood.
march 11
MESS A G E
Of the Prcfidcnt of the United States,
To both Houses of Coßgrcfe,
APmIL 3, '9B
With the Dispatches from the Envoys of
the United States at Paris,
Which accompanied the Same.
TO* SALE
At N*v. 63 North 3d Hreet, at Way & CrofT's
"Printing-Office, No. 17 Arch street, »nd at the
the Ei'ito-,S«. l'9< Chefnu-Hreet
Canal Lottery—-No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the 20th
inft. Titkett for Sale in this Lottery, at
Srum Dollar], at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. f> 4, Sooth Secood-llreet—
Ticket* 1-1 the Bch*ylki» Bridge Lottery, « Tm
Daltm. where check hooka are kept lor regifter
in" ami in these, the City ofWaHfing
ton. No. ll.an-1 Patt ifon Lo'tcries, and informa
tion where ticket! may be had in most of the Lotte
ries authorised by Jaw ia any »f the Stttea of the
TJnw. . . , .
N. 3. The bufinefsof a Baoxt*, inbuymgand
felling all kin W of Public Stock and Securities,
difcooting Bills »P'l Not * s ol Hand, sale of
j ,nils. Houses, See. &c.»ill be duly attended to,
£ WM. BLACKBURN.
ilo«n»ber 1 J. S
PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY EVENING, APRIL 30, 1798.
The Co-partner (hip of the Subscribers,
TRADING UNDER THE FIRM Of
Joseph Davidson Sff Co.
IS this day dissolved by mutual confine, all those
having claims against said firm, are desired to
render their accounts and those indebted to malte
payment to Joseph Davidfon, who is duly autho
rised to fcttle the affairs of the concern.
JOSEPH J. MILLER.
JOSEPH DAVIDSON.
N. B. The Stores at the corner of Market and
Fourth Streets are now to be let.—Enquire ol Jo
seph Davi dlon. "
april *6 w&sim
BRANDT.
The Cargo of the Danish Brig Concord,
raoM ciTTt,
Will commence landing this day, at Smith's ftreit
wharf.
T,TiP r'} Choice Brandy
Provence white Wine, in pipes
Hazlenuts and Filberts, in lacks
A few Almonds, Railins, &c.
For Sale by
Peter Blight.
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SALE,
200,000 lbs. Java Coffee, in sacks
Old Batavia Arrack, in pipes
Mace and Cloves, in boxes
no hhds. Jamaica Sugar
50 do. do. Rum
Port Wine, in pipes, hhds. and qr. calks
Madeira, London particular, in pipes, very
superior
april 18. dlweoti7M
Imported in the ship Phoenix,
Richard Grice, matter, from Amsterdam,
A qnantity of Lintfeed Oil, and
Two cases low priced Linen Checks
For Sale by
George Pennock.
April 19. eotf
New Tea Warehouse.
No. 39, South Front Street,
Of POSIT C I'OST-O»riCJE.
THE SuMcriber rtfpecUully acquaint-sherfriepds
and the public, that fee has opened a Store for
the sale of all kinds of teas, imported in the late
arrivals at Bolton and Philadelphia, (as under) and
which (he is determined to fell o* reasonable terms.
It will be hcrconftant endeavour to give fatisfa&ion
to those who please.-to favor her with their cuttom.
Country Bores will find it their advantage to deal
wiih her, as fee can at a moment'? notice assort
them any quantity wanted, and will allow a reason
able credit 00 approved notes. •
Imperial, Hyson, Young Hyson, Souchong,
Hyson Skin, and Bohea—Alfo, Coffee and Loaf
Sagar for sale.
Sarah Eaton.
April 1 % «&th.6w
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT application has been made at the Bank of
the United States, for the renewal ofthe fol
lowing five Certificates of Bank Stock, loft by the
capture of the Bricife Packet, Coantefs of Leices
ter—viz.
N0.,1/oj,containing 5 fcares")lffued to Henry Ca
-3 703 5 do J zenove NephewStCo
731 I do. ilTued to Edwerds
and Co.
318S J do. issued (in lieu of
6509 to 65*3) to Samuel and Henry Vaddington.
zgiS 4 do. issued to Phyn, El-
Hce and Inglis.
All persons concerned are therefore called upon
to (hew cause why new Certificates should not be
issued agreeably to the said application.
April 14 e'-fi-v
" LANDING,
Frem on board the feip Elizabeth, captain Paiflie,
from Batavia,
And FOR SALE by the Sobickucr,
400,000 wt. Java COFFEE
300 canillers SUGAR, of a superior quality
ALSO,
A quantity of SAP AN WOOD
JOHN MILLER, jun.
April 17. * §_
Thomas & Joshua Fisher,
HAVE FOR SALE,
At No. 5, Dock-ftreet,near the Drawbridge,
China ware nankeen dining setts, tea and coffee
cups and saucers
Nankeens, black fattins and taffities
Pungem cloths, choppah romalls, and bartdannoes
China and Englife umbrellas.
Together with a general ajfortment of European
Goodt— among 'which are
Scots thread in boxes
6d. Sd. lod. lid. and ted. nails
Shot—T. Crowley steel, Spanife brown and white
lead
Englilh scythes 41 to 50 inches
ALSO,
It! barrellstff kiln drye«l Indian corn meal.
AcommodiousStoreinDock-ftreet,
No. 7, to be let, three stories high, fuitablefor
any business.
4th mo. jth §*f
For Sale,
BY i*Ht SUBSCRTBER, NO- 10, CHEINW STREET,
11 Calks of Carolina Indigo,
Which will be fold on reasonable t*rms on a fliort
credit.
Robert Henderfon.
April 1 mw&s4W
JUST RECEIVED,
FROM rO a T-A U-F RIN CE,
And FOR SALE, by *tr SUBSCRICESS,
no hhds. Coffee
4< tierces do.
100 barrels do.
100 bags do
no hoglheadsof Sugar
So barrels of do.
40 hogsheads of Molasses
4 bales of Cotton
a hngfheidsof Cocoa
WILLINGS FRANCIS.
Peivn-ftreet.
march I».
Pennsylvania Hoipital,
4th mo. 'Jth, 1798.
THE Contributors to the Pennsylvania Hospi
tal, are to meet on the seventh day of next
Month, being the second day of the week, at the
said Hospital at three o'clock in the afternoon, to
cleft twelve Managers and a Treasurer, for the
enfoing year.
Bv orrtrr nf a hetrd of liTana^eri.
SAMUEL COATES, See'rj.
april|7 dtS
By John Fen no, N°- 119 Chefnut Street.
Ross y Sim son,
HAVE FOR SALE,
a 2 bales superior Madrafs blue Cloths
Carolina Indigo, firfl quality
A few bales Baftas, C'olT.iei, and a quantity of
Bengal COTTON
Btngal SUGAR, in bags and box«»
" J }«««
april ao §
TO BE SOLD,
acres of Land,
IN the State of New York, betwpenths northern
bounds of Pennsylvania and the Safquehanna
now, or late ia the townlhips of Hamden and
Warren and county of Warren.
These Lands, from thf ir quality and situation,
are a very desirable objeil for any man who means
to invert his money to advantage.
On payment of one third of the pnrchafe mo
ney, a reasonable credit wi'l I e given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april w. §
TO BE SOLD,
4°>959 acres L an d.
IN Greene County, Commonwealth of Pennsyl
vania, on the waters of FHh and Wheeling
Creeks and Ten Mile Run.
These Lands are fertile and well timbered, and
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten years Ago for
fiv-e {billings per acre ; patented early in 1787, ex
cept 3700 acres, wfiich were patented in 1794;
part of them were surveyed in 1783. The tra<sl
is between the Ohio and Monongahela, very con
veflient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of Washington, from 14 tt 16 from the
village of Greenefburgh and Wheeling.
On payment o£ one fourth of thepurchafe mo
ney, a reasonable credit wil) be given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april a*. $
~A~Fremium'of 100 Dollars
WILL be paid by the Bank of Pennsylva
nia, for such Plan *of a Banking House,
accompanied with fc&ions and elevations, as may
be approved of by the Directors. The building is
not intended to exceed 60 feet front, or too feet
in depth, and to be so planned aa to admit of its
being made fire proof. It is requested that the
plans may be sent to the CalUier ot the Bank, pre
vious to the firft of June next.
April 19. tuthstlje
' 1 T HK term of Co-partnerlhip between the lub-
X fcribers, trading under the firm of John Mil
ler, jun.and Co. expirtsthis day, and by mutual
consent will not be renewed* The debts and con
cerns of the fame will be fettled by John Miller,
Jun. to whom all those indebted.to the partnership,
are earnestly requested to make payment to, with
out delay.
JOHN MILLER, Jun.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
February 19 §tf
LANDING,
From on board the Ship Sally, from
Calcutta,
AND FOR. SALE BY TH| SUBSCRIBER,
1600 bags prime Sugar,
800 do. Ginger
30 bales low priced piece Goods.
John Miller, Jun.
march 3 f__
Alex. J. Miller & James Davis,
Having entered into partuerfhip under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller & Co.
INFORM their friendsin town and country, that
they have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South Front S/reet, Philadelphia ; whers
they now have, and intend keeeping a general af
fajtraent of India, German, Irijh, French and firi
tijh Mannfafturesfor sale, on advantageous termr
for calh or a fliort credit.
February 19 .
N OTIC E.
ALL persons who have any dcmSfids against
th« estate of Willam Fleetwood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
property attested ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, to
January 4. dtf
~ JUST'RECEIFED.
And for sale by W.Young, corner of Second
and Chefnut-ftreet, M. Carey 118 High-street
T. Dobfon, 41 South and the
Booktellers generally,
(Price 5-Bths of a Dollar.)
BEACON HILL,
A Local Poem, historic and deforipUve ?
By a Lady of Bojlon.
ANALYSIS OF BOOK!.
Alluflon to the furrotiwding Profpe-ft— Invocation
to the River and sylvan Deities—to the Kiftcric
Mufe—Fiflion discarded—Dedication to Wash
ington—The A&ion opens at the Retreat of the
Columbians from Bunker's Hill—General Howe
—The Memory of his Brother—Death of War
ren—Personification of Fortune and Fame—
Washington at Mount Vernon—called to the
chief Command—Formation of th« Columbian
Camp at Cambridge—Natural, moral, or poli
tical Hiflory of the several States—Their com
manding Officers—Siege of Boston—-Its Suffer
ings—Negotiation for the fafe Retreat of the
British Army—its Departure—Appointment of
Coiigrcfs—- Declaration of Independence—Cha
ra«fter of the Columbian Soldies—The Poet's
prophetic Apostrophe to the Frogrefc of Free
dom throughout the World,
march 30. $
Just Publifhedi
And to be had at the Book-stores of MefTrs. Do»-
son, Campsf,ll, Young and Okhkod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Cauies add Cure of Remitting «r Bilious
Fevers.
To "which is annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinion* and priifticeof
different authors: and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting int.reftingfa&s and refle<flions rekitivr to
the Synnfnti ltirroidts, or Yellow Fever, which
has occasioned so much diftrel, and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the seaport
towns of the United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Fetow of the Philadelphia College of Phyficiann,
and Memi>erof.the Pbiloloyhical So
ciry. Feb. i—*3>n§
Sales of Lands.
On Tuesday Evening next, Ift May, will
be Sold at the Merchant's Colfce-Houfe,
1000 Acres, including Harro i's Creek, and
Salt Lick Run, lituate mile from New-VVafe
ington, and io£ mi!e» from Harrodfburg, for
merly Jefferfon, now in Wilson County in the
State of Kentucky, surveyed 01 aTreafury war
rant No. 17373 Title Deeds, &c. will be Ihewn
by applying at the Subfcriber*j Auilion Room,
No. 74, South Third-street.
PETER BENSON, Auaioneer.
April Is. w&m
Imported.
AND FOR SALE BY TH 6 SUBSCRIBER.
Brown Hollands 1
Oil Cloths 1
Gilt, Silver'd and common marbled paper
German Tapes
Looking Glaltei 1
Straw knives, Scythes, and .a variety of other 1
German goods.
ALSO ON HAND,
A General AlTortment of Ironmongery,
Sadlery, &c. .
Gideon Hill Wells,
Market, between 3d and 4th streets, No. 1.35
april 17 taw6w"
FOR SALE,
By the subscribers, No. ii, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Conftjiing of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Coflaes Punjum Cloths
Sanaht Guzzeydo-
Humhums Charconna Dorea
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls
Mamoodys Checks
Miharagonges Pat-na Hkfs.
Ginghims Mulmul do.
Guzzcnas Bzndannoes
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcoes Choppa Romals
Salgatcbys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Persians of various col.
Mack Pulicats
»oo tons SUGAR
90,0001b. PEPFER.
Willings & Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
commodious store the Borth weft corner of
Market and Fourth-streets.
Alfo —A few Bales of Madrafc Hkfs. of ele
gant patterns and best colours.
February 8. dtf
FRESH TEAS.
MR. CHALK,
INFORMS his Friends and the Pub'.ic, that he
has opened a
TEA WAREHOUSE
At his Circulating Library, No. 7 j North Third
street, where he will be happy to execute their
Orders for fine-flavoured
IMPERIAL, HYSON, . }
YOUNG.HYSON, f -P,,.
HYSON-SKIN, r 1
SOUCHONG & BOHEA J
On moderate terms.
Coffi*, Chocolate and Loaf Sugar,
april 13. m&ftf
For Sale,
Thecargoofthebrig American from Laguira,
CONSISTING OF
Cataccas Cocoa.
Henry Philips,
No. H7,, South Fourth Street.
April 23 §
The Subscribers,
Are landing at Waiting's wharf, from on board
of the Ihip Elizabeth, Captain Pcafiee, from Ba
tavia,
400,000 lbs. of best Java Coffee,
191 Canidersof Sugar
A few tons of Sapan wood
FOR SALE
Philips, Cramond & Co
april 16 iw
IMPORTED,
In the Brig Benjamin Franklin, from
Bourdeaux,
AND FOR SALBBY THE SUBSCRIBER,
Claret in caiks
White wine in half casks
Sweet oil of a superior quality in boxes and bafcets
Lunelle ""■»
Macarty, and f Wine, in Cases.
Medoc J
Thomas Murgatroyd,
No. ti, Walnut Street.
WHO HAS ON HAND,
Bourdeaux Brandy in pipes In titled
Irish market 7 «r- r > to
Medoc, and Sau f erne J incs 10 Ca CB ' j drawback
Sherry wine in pipes and quarter casks
Rota
Pimento in bags
Two trunks of Umbrellas, and
About fOOObu/hels 1 iverpoolSalt.
march 19 mw&ftf
Red Clover Seed of rhebefl;quality,
MADEIRA WINE,
Old, and fit for immediate use, in pipes, half
pipes and Quarter casks.
Teneriffe Wine,
And, Window Glass—all of which will be fold
en very reasonable terms, by'
John Craig,
march 1 w*tf No. 12, Dock Street.
Interpreter of F Languages.
JOSEPH E. G. M. de LA GRANGE,
Walnut-street, No. no,
BEING duly commiftioned and sworn in the a
bove capacity, offers to translate the French,
EnglHh, Spanish, Portuguese and Italian Langua
ges: he flatters himfclf that his former profetnon,
as advocate, both in France and St. Domingo, has
well qualified him to translate any Court proceed
ings or other Jud ciary inftrumcnts.
N. B. The FRENCH CIRCULATING LI
BRARY continues open at the above place. Ma
ny valuable additions having been made to this
collection, it confiftsnow of about 1500 volume ,
the beil adapted to answer the purpulc of
who wish both to improve in the Language, and
obtain ufcftil iii&ru&i m and plcafnrc.
nnrch 30. lawjm
FOR SALE,
(By Pojlponement,J
At Public Vendue, on the 7th of May next, at
7 o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants'
CofTee*Houfe,
THE FOLLOWING
PRODUCTIVE REAL ESTATES :
No. I. A good THREE STORY BRICK
HOUSE, 20 feet front, and ij feet deep, with
the privilege of a four feet alley. It is situated
in Plumlr-ftreet, between Front and SeeonJ
ftreets,in a pleasant and improving part of South*
walk.
а. A genteel thres-ftory brick House in Front
street, between Race and Vine streets, No. 171,
north—it goes through to Water street, where
it is five ftorieshigh, the whole in compleat re
pair, and now rented for 600 dollars per ann.
3. A handsome, well finilhed three-fUiry
brick Houle, in south Second street, No. 165,
it is Jo feet front, and 45 feet deep. The Lit
runs through to Dock-ftrect, on which is built
a good two-story brick house > The whole wtf
let before repaired for 800 dollars and the taxes.
4- A well built three-story brick house, situ
ated in Chefnut-Ureet, between Front and Se
cond • streets, being 18 feet front, and about acct
feet deep, running through to Taylor's alley,
011 which it is 22 feet front, with a coach-hcuf«
and liable. There are ten good rooms in com
pleat. repair, and cellar under the whele, clear of
gronnd rent and every other incumbrance.
5. A good Plantation, situate.l Mar Hights-
Town, East New-Jersey, containing 186 acres,
well improved land, with plenty of woodland,
orchard and meadow, in a healthy filuation and
a good neighbourhsod.
б. Another Plantation adjoining the preced
ing, containing alio 186 acres. 011 winch is a
frame house and flable, with a large orchard of
grafted fruit, a good well of water, and a large
body of swamp, well timbered.
7. Also another plantation, adjoining the
firit mentioned ; it conuins IS6 acres, part of
which is gqod meadow, a large quantity v>f val
uable swamp, a very convenient farm house,
barn, (table, and a good new well of excellent
water.
Also, a nunaber of BUILDING LOTS, 100
feet frent (on the great road leading to Amboy )
and .too feet deep ; adapted particularly for
tradifmen.
For further particulars or purchase at private
sale, apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, fen. or,
ROBERT E. GRIFFITH.
April 28. 28&3">A 2.4,6,7 M
A Country Seat to be Let,
THE firli House in the Vdlage of Germantown,
situated »n the right hand fide of the Road
—together with five or fix acres of Grass Land.
Apply to
GEORGE LOGAN.
April al «jt
Majfachufetts Di/lricl.
By Order of the Honorable John Lowell,
Esquire, Judge of the Diftridl Court for
the Maflachufetts Diftriil,
" "VfOTICE is hereby given to all persons
IN concerned," That a Libel is filed in said
Court by Christian G. Grutzmacher, late Com
mander of the (hip Corona, of and from Ham
burgh, »nd Henry Aadrew Heins as agents for
the owners of said Ship, against lundry
wares and merchandize, saved from laid ihip
Corona, wrecked on Cape Cod within said Dif.
tridl on the 16th March la.t which goods,
wares aad merchandise, were confined to di
vers perl'ons in Philadelphia, in the Diftiii2 of
Pennsylvania, and elsewhere—and that said Li
bel is filed as aforefaid, for tb- freight said to be
due t» the Libellants on said goods, wares and
merchandize, and for neceflary expcnces paid
by them which have arisen upon the fame
And that trial will be had upon the aforeiaid
Libel at a Diftri<£l Court to be holden at the
Court-House in Boston, on Monday the eigh
teenth day of June next, at 11 o'clock, A. M.
SAMUEL BRADFORD, *
" Marjhal of Majfachufetts"
Dated at Boston, Jpril 1
Landing at Wain's wharf, _
From on board the brig Enierprize, capt. Lang
don, from Jamaica.
60 hogfticads of good SUG/IR, and") Entitled to
60/>co vvt. of prime green COP FEE j drawback.
And For Sale by
WHARTON LEWIS,
Jv'o 115, South Front street.
Who have like-wise for fate,
A quantity of 4th p;o«f Jamaica Rum
MolaiTcs, and
70 barrels of Tanners' Oil
4. few bWs. excellent Limes
april 14. toiot
salTpeire. ~
One hundred kegs of refined Salt Petre,
For Sale by the Subfcriters.
James C. & Samuel IV. Fijher,
No. 13, Arch Street
™*rch 31 A tawtf
Manchester Goods.
Received by the latest arrivals from Liverpool, so
t vera! trunks, suitable for the present and ap- \
proachingfeafon, which will be fold very
low for cafti or on a ftiorc credft, vis:.
7-8 and 9-8 Printed Calicdes
Fancy Waiftcoating in Marfolles, «Scc.
Cotton and silk and cotton Hofi ry, Pantaloon*,
&c.
A variety of (English) Umhrellas
Nankeens, cotton Hhkfs. Shoe b»n<jing\ &«.
N. B. A cafe of printed Muflinets, and a trunk
of Pullicat Bangalore Handkerchief*, entitled to
drawback, aod very fiwabla for the Weft-Indie«.
Apply No. 35 South Wattr and corner of Cfcef
mit street. 41T10. 13 —$iw
PORT WINE,
In pipes, liogQieads and quarter calks,
or A superior qUALirr,
Just imported, in the Henrietta, P. P. Schmidt,
mailer, from Oporto,
ALSO, ON HAND, ' _
300 bbls. New-York and Boston Beef
Ware in crates
Bunkets in ba'.es
Gnr.s assorted in cases, CutlafTes, Sword* &c.
For Sale by
THOMAS JOHN KF.Tr.AND.
Walnut Arctt wharf.
3 r« »• zct
\VCLVME XIII.CON G R ESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Friday, April to.
IT being announced by the Clerk that the
Speaker was sick, and unable to attend
the Hiwlei
Mr. SmACUE moved that a Speaker pro
tem. be appointed. After some observations
on the propriety of so doing, the m«tion was
put and carried, there being 4.6 votes for it.
The Sergeant at Arms accordingly pro
ceeded to colleCt the ballots, which being
done, Mtflrs. Jofiah Parker and Morris were
called upon to count the votes, wjiich Mr.
Parker reported to be as follow, viz. for Mr.
Dent 40, Mr. Sitgreaves 19, Mr. Baldwin 1 a,
Mr. J. Williams 1, and Mr. Blount 1.
Mr. Dent was accordingly declared to be
elected, and having been conducted to the
Chair by Mr. Sitgreaves, he addretfed the
House as fellows:
" Gentlemen,
" IN the execution of the dutiesof this tem
porary appointment, my endeavour will be to
evince linct impartiality.—Permit me to hope
your co-operation in- maintaining order, and
to expeCt y»ur support in all cales of official
decisions, where it to be afforded."
On motion of tV|r. S'tgreaves it was resolv
ed, that a inefTage be sent to the Senate, in
forming them that the House had elected a
Speaker ; ro (em.
The House ihen resolved itfelf into a com
mittee of the whole on the date of the Union,
on the bill to provide an additional armament
for the fu—Jier protection of the trade of the
United States, and for other purposes, when
the consideration of Mr. Gallatin's amend
ment tothe i(t feclionbe;ng resumed, viz. to
insert " prov ded th-v (hall not, in time of
peace, be employed as convoy to any foreign
port or place."
Mr. Allen. —Mr. Chairman, I wish toin
form the Committee the realons for the drong
exprellions of abhorrence and indignation,
which fell from me yederday, at the language
of the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
Gallatin) when the House was in committee
of the whole on this bill.
1 confefs, Sir, I have not that perfeft com
mand of myfelf—l have not that iron fydem
of nerves, which I could wish, the want of
which I lament, and which I so muchadnire
in oihers. Conditionally too irritable, I
m»et such insults to my country with a degree
of warmth which I delire to repress, but
which I hope does not banish from my bosom
that consideration and that candour which is
neceifiry in my place. The situation of our
country requires a cool and temperate delibe
ration; and 1 wiih for nothing more than for
tjhe adbptionoffuch measures as true wisdom
shall point out as proper. The committee, I
trust, will pardon me for the adonifhment and
displeasure i felt at what 1 heard from that
gentleman ; a fimilaV displeasure marked the
countenances of almoit a:I who heard him.-
I did expert, upon the disclosure in the dif
paiches of what had patTed at Paris between
our Commiflioncrs and the Government of
France, that a spirit of unanimity would have
been, in some degree, produced in our coun
cils, ihough a perfect unanimity could not be
expected. 1 did fxpeet that every member
of the Legislature wcnild have laid his hand
upon his heart, and considered what was ne
cetfary to be done tor the fafety of his coun
try, and would have determined to support
fiich measures as should be deliberately adopt
ed by the majority. But, Sir, what do we be
hold f 1 have loflg considered as the riiod
prominent feature in the Jacobinicthe
spirit of obdinacy, which knows not to yield ;
that furious, clamorous spirit, which never
acquiesces in meaiures ncr principles, howe
ver well fettled; which never yields to majo
rities, but which always seeks by force or art
to convert minorities into majorities; that
spirit which drives men tooveri'et, dedroy, or
lender ineffectual, measures which it disap
proves, though adopted by the general con
lent and approbation of the country; that
spirit whichceafesnot to reprobate in the moil
bitter manner measures whichgentlemen know
and acknowledge cannot now be set aside. I
pray God this spirit may have an end; if it
continues)! will ruin thiscountry. It appears
to me, that the courle gentlemen »e now ta
king will overwhelm us with irretrievable
difficulties. I hope lam miltaken ; but it ap
pears to me the duty of every American, at
this time, seriously to declare that he will
Ityport the meatures which have been
which may be adopted by the government,
The Senate have pasTed, by a large majori
ty, and sent to u*, a bill to provide an addi
tional armament, and no exprellion of disap
probation of it is heard out of doors. The ob
jects of it are, the defence of those parts of our
coast which are mod exposed to tne enemy ;
ottr trade from port to port; our trade to fo
reign countries where within the reach of
our (hores; and the general defence of the
ration. The fird dep is to provide the means
of defence. How it will operate I know not;
it cannot be particularly forefeen. Let us
pofTcfs the power and conlult the mode of con
ducting it afterwards. All men mud confefs
our situation requires it. It is intended to
place this force in the hands of the govern
ment, to be used as the exigencies of the na
tion may demand. But it is attempted, by
the gentleman from Pennsylvania, at the very
outset, at the very tbrefhold of the business,
to (hackle it, to make a declaration which
goes to a prostration of the country —He re
quires that we declare we will not make life
of these vefTels to defend our acknowledged
rights ; that whatever may be our situation,
whatever may be the event, condition or con
tingency, howevereffeCtuai may be the means
of defending our (hips, our property, these
ve(Tels.(hall not U.- used as convoys. Is this
•wife —is thisp>udent ? For 1 wish to avoid the
difcuflion of all Confiitutional queflions, and to
speak only of the expediency of the nieafure.
Will gentleman reful'e their aflent to the bill
unlets accompanied with a declaration that
the veiiels shall not be used in a particular
lTianncr? Surely every gentleman who is anx
ous only for the true interelt of his own coun
try murtconfent to leave the manner of em
ploying these Veirels to be fettled hereafter,
by Congress, or by the Prelidenf, when our
situation with refpett to France (hall be fully
known. The events of next month, next
week, nay, of tomorrow, may re'ndir this
reflriCtion idle, absurd, and dangerous. If
gentlemen are unwilling to tru(t the Prelident
are they afraid of tbemfelyes ? If their jealou
sy leads them to put manacles on the Execu
tive, mull they also fetter themselves f Can
we not discuss this quedien at a future day,
and make a law providing for the operation
of tljis force, long before it will be prepared
for action? Why occupy the time which is
wanted for preparing the armament in quar
relling about its courle and dellination?—
What will be the life of these velfels without
the proposed rel'nCtion, I cannot tell ; but I
am not afraid to ccntide this power lo the
Piefident; I am not apprehcufivc tliey will
lie improperly employed. If there were any
such danger as gentlemen seem to contem
, plate, the public fentimeat«jhc general opi- 1
nioti of the country, would mlluance the Ex
ecutive conduct on the occasion. Under all
the attacks that arc condantly made upon us,
and the threats of dcdniction that alarm our
country, surely there can be no danger of
these vellels defending us and all our rights
too zealously, or too effectually.
Ihe queliion is, shall we fuffer these armed
ve2els to act as convoys in time of peace ; and
by peace he confers he means that date in
wh'ch we now (land; plundered, insulted,
menaced as we now are?
It is laid policy forbids it. I believe policy
calls upon us to defend our/elves in the belt man
ner we are able, unoperated upon by any thing
which has taken place heretofore. Policy calls
upon us to coiifult our own fafety and inte
rest, without giving way to an affection for
one nation or hatred to another. These are
absurd arid dangerous padiuns in nations. It
is our true policy to defend ourselves and our
rights to the fulled extent ; we have an aw
ful lefTon of what we are to expeCt from fub
mifTion and tamenefs.
It is said, that it is a vain attempt so defend
our commerce ; because we cannot de
fend it effectually* Sir, no nation ever did
defend its commerce effectually in the fenf'e
the gentleman means; no nation ever expect
ed or attempted it. Ev4ry country at war
will lofie very many of its merchant ships; it
is fufficient that we exert so great a force in
their defence as under all circumffances we
can afford, and can bring into aCtion. But,
Sir, no nation ever said, in the spirit of this
amendment,that it would not protect its rights
and commerce. It would be an invitation to
all the pirates on earth to plunder it, under a
proinife of impunity. Whatever may be ex
pedient to be done in faCt, however much we
may really be difpefed to endure in hope to
escape a war, we should not publish to the
world and to our foe, our intention t«i submit
to his robberies. The man who would fay
this, would never have the spirit to defend
the country in cafe of an aCtual invafion—lt
is a spirit calculated only to surrender our
independence to the fird power who shall
have courage to demand it.
It was said by the gentleman from Virginia
(Mr. Nicholas) that by refufing to protect
our commerce, we should lofeonly the carry
ing trade ; that the ships of other nations would
come to our ports and furnifh us with such
fore'rj»n productions as we might want, and
take front us such of ours as we might Tiave to
spare ; and that the objeCt of the protection
was not worth the expence and the hazard.
This was not always the language of that gen
tleman, He formrrly thought the carrying
trade of the utmost importance to the country.
E vety one remembers the long & earned debate
which four years ago took place on a set of re
solutions brought in by a gentleman from Vir
ginia (Mr. Madison). They were founded
on certain commercial regulations, said to
have been adopted by Great-Britain, injuri
ous only to the carrying trade which we are
now invited to surrender without a druggie.
[Here Mr. A. read some observations of Mr.
Nicholas on that occasion, in which, speaking
of the wrongs this country had fuffered from
Great-Britain, he a(ks if there was so little
American feeling in the house as not to lead
them to take retaliatory measures, &c.] Let
gentlemen compare our situation at that time
with the present, and they will discover that
all which that gentleman then fatd was appli
cable at this time, and infinitely more. Those
who then opposed the measures of the gentle
man from Virginia, called for fpetific facts of
the injuries complained of—they were told
of the savages being let leofe upon our fron
tiers, and the Algerines upon our Commerce,
and of commercial advarilages being denied
us ; yes, Sir, the fame gentleman from Vir
ginia was then indignant at our commercial
lofTes, andatredraint on our trdde. No gen
tleman now calls for " fpecific fafts ;" no
gentleman now calls for evidence againd
France ; every gentleman now agrees we have
jud cause of war againd her; but now they
profefs to doubt the policy of protecting that
trade which they then thought so important ;
ntrw it is not worth defending ; nam it is mere
baggatelle; now they are willing to let fo
leigners regulate our markets, take our ships,
imprison our seamen, and take poflelTion of
our harbours. Now we are feriouflyjinvited to
draw our heads within our diells, and humbly
take what foreigners will please to give us;
and all this without an effort to defend rights
so dear and sacred. These were not the sen
timents which animated the gentleman on the
former occasion ; and I cannot account for
this difference of conduct in fituatibns so simi
lar. The gentleman on that occasion dated
the quedion to be whether commercial regu
lations diould be adopted, or whether we
should go to <war. Arms were to be the re
source if milder measures failed in their effeCt.
These gentlemen were then ready to resist and
to repel the aggreflions committed on us, and
their meafutes were drenuoufly urged. At that
time Great-Britain did not avow the wrongs
(he had committed on us, nor did (he threaten
to continue them and ravage our coasts, both
which France now does. Our complaints a
gainst Great-Britain were few and light, com
pared with those we make againd France ; yet,
had the commercial regulations then proposed
by these gentlemen proved inefficient, blood
1 would have been shed in defence of the rights
then violated, though of no importance com
pared with the injuries under which we now
groan. It is contended by the gentleman
from Virginia (Mr. Nicholas) and I believe
by the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
Gallatin) that by the law of nations,
France has a right to search our veflels in or
der to discover whether they have on board
contraband articles, ox enemy's property. But
has she not declared (lie will not be governed
by the law of nations ; that she will make her
oower her only rirfe of condufit ? And will it
be said that (he inay avail herfelf of rights gi
ven by a law the injunctions of which (he will
iNit obey ? May fht protect herfelt under that
law while she will retufe to all other nations
the protedtion it promises to tbem? Do we
allow the Algerines or the" pirates of Asia to
learch our vellels ? We may reply, to every
Frenchman, who demands to search our diips,
"You (liall not; you declare you will condemn
for causes which you admit not authorized
by the law of nations, and you (hall not search
for any cause whatever." Certainly while gen
tlemen admit that we have jud cause of war
againd her, they cannot confidently cohtend
for her right to fearch,and our duty to submit.
The gentleman from Pennsylvania, fays,
" we ought not to permit our vefTcls to serve
as convoys, because to convoy our merchant
men is to proteCt them againd the unlawful
attacks, and againd all attacks of foreign ships ;
that to defend our veflels againd the ag
grelfions of France by force is to fight, and to
fight is to go totoor; and a date of war is a
greater evil than the present date of things.
And he adds, we had better fuller the French
to go on with their depredations, unjud and
enormous as they are, than to take any step
which may lead to uuar."
This I cannot admitr This course of ar
gument is chosen, 1 believe, to give currency
to the opinion that the Executive and a part
of this House are determined on 'war in behalf
of Great Britain. Tlfis is continually infinity*
ted, or boldly asserted, tho' contrary to the
repeated and molt foletnn alterations of the
late and present chief magistrates, and of many
of the members of this bady, that they anxt
oudy wilh peace with the .French republic.
This alarm is rung throughout the Un'.ted
States, and is eveiy where preached up and
declaimed agninft, in order to excite meetings
and to raise up a part of the people to refill
the mea&iresof the government, however jull
and necedary they may be 1 think lam
warranted in tliisaflertton by a number ofcir
cumdances ; look at the petitions from a
number of places againd fudering your mer
chantmen to arm in their defence againda na
tion of robbers. Every where exertions are
made to excite diffatisfaftion, and a flame a
gainst our government. Every where are
found men base or deluded enotigh to present ,
their faces in broad day light, and revile the
measures and the adminidrators of the go
vernment. Every where do they recount the |
measures they condemn—the funding fyflem,
the bank laav, the excise, the Britifb treaty, the '
building of frigates, the Federal City, and the«
stamp ail, are rung in the ear of the public as (
monltrous, unjulf, impolitic and dedruitive ;
altho' they have had the repeated and decid
ed approbation of majorities in Congress, and
of the people ; and altho' almod all-men, even
those who extite or join in the clamour, ac
knowledge that every principle ofjudice now
forbids their repeal. Inffead of alarming the
public mind, gentlemen would do mudh bet
ter service to their country by quieting and
appeasing it ; and by indruiting the people
in the true principles of the laws, in the ab
solute necellity of fnbmitting to and reding
fatisfied with the decilion of majorities, tin- (
less those decisions obviously and manifeftly
led to the dedruition of the country; and I
diould doubt even in such a cafe of the pro
priety of a forcible interference, because of the
danger of exerciling the right of infurrefliort.
When measures are deliberately adopted, u
nanimity ought to prevail in carrying them
into eft eft ; but nothing is in fait heard but j
the jarring founds of discord and division;
if the laws are sot openly opposed and difo- \
it is a grumbling, reluilant fub.nidion
which is yielded, indicative of a temper
tv hich is ready for refidance, revolution and
blood. This disposition, tho' seen in all pla
ces, commands but a few voices ; for the ho
nour of our country a very great majority of
the people remain uninfluenced by these facti
ous difiurbers of the public peace ; and,
thank God I they have experienced a
fital and tfifmal defeat hi a particular part of
the union.
B it, fays the gentleman from Pennfylvanisj,
(Mr Gallatin) we had better red contented
as we aie, "we had better fuffer the French
to continue their captures of our (hips and
imprifo.iment of our seamen, we had better
fuffer thein to go on with their depredations
than to go to war." Sir, what loud and in
infolent complaints have been made againd
us, for " fuffering" the Britilh to commit the
very fame kind of violences en us ; our ears
yet tingle with the reproaches heaped upon
us for fuffering precisely the fame attro
cities which we are now invited lo meet with
tame fubmidion. These gentlemen hare
heretofore told us that the French were eX
cused for their robberies by our "fuffering"
the Britifli to drengthen their forces and man
(heir (hips with their seamen. Is not this a
donilhing? What measure of depredation and
plunder may the British now adopt by this
rule,if we "fuffer" the French to drip usatthe
present rate? They have hitherto proceeded
in at lea 2 a quadruple ratio. By this rule we
be required to "fuffer" the Britilh to
take ou'rlad (hip, our lad man, and our lad
farthing.
" Wediad better fuffer the French to go on
with their depredations than go to war." Sir,
this is all the French claim for themselves.
They now take all they can find ; they are
perfectly contented with their present condi
tion. If they can take and dedroy the whole
of oar trade, they will be fatisfied. The con
tinual plunder of our commerce will be worth
more than all the money we can pay. But
let gentlemen recolleft that France has ex
pressed t-he dronged hopes of conquering her
enemy, Great-Britain ; that power which a.
lone now opposes itfelf to this monder which
has devoured half Europe. What will be
our condition, what will be our means of de
fence,when (he has dripped us of all our
(hips and faanien ? To me it appears clear,
that if we "fuffer" France " to goon" it
will end in the complete dedruition of all
those articles in which confid our bed means
of defence. lam not for doing this, I am
not for giving up all our diips and seamen to
French rapacity ; because I believe if we give
up these we have those within our bofotn who
would give up our country too. I again call
oh the gentleman ftom Virginia (Mr. Nicho
las) to remember the spirit which actuated
him and the language he spoke, on the for
mer occasion. That spirit, were it now a
wake, would hold a different tone from what
we heafat present. We are advised to refrain
from using the power we poflefs for defending
ourselves on the ocean ; and to declare that
we will fold up our arms and submit to be
dripped. No nation that had endured the
wrongs we feel, and againd whom such threats .
had been pronounced, ever said " wewillnot
refid, we cannot afford effectual defence, and
therefore we will give no defence at all." I
hope we (hall not yet fubferibe to such a de
claration.
Sir, I (hould have dood adonifhed at the
language I have heard from these gentlemen ;
I fhouldhave wondered what could have in
duced it, but for what I have in my hand—
Is there not something peculiar and alarming
in an invitation at this time to surrender our
rights and independence to a foreign nation ;
for I believe the conduft recommended a -
mounts to this 1 If we turn to the dispatches
from France, however, we (hall fee it all ac
counted for. Mr. A. then read the follow
ing paragraph from the conversation of Mr.
Y. with our ministers at Paris. ■•Perhaps
you believe that in returning and expoling to
your countrymen the irrireal'onablenefs of the
demands of this government, you will unite
them in their refidance to those demands :
You are midsken ; you ought to know that
the diplomatic skill of France, and the
means (he possesses iii your country, arefuf
ficient to enable her, with the French party in
America, to throw the blame which will at
tend the ruptujre of the negociations on the
FederaliJls, as you term yourselves, butonthe
Brit'jb party as Fiance terms you ; and you
may allure yourselves this will be done."
This, Mr. Chairman, fitrnidies the solution
of all the quedions which arise, of all the en
quiries that are made, into the motives of cer
tain gentlemen on this floor. If the French
had applied their " diplomaticfiill." the means
" they poflefs in this country" with the mod
perfett addrefsand dexterity,what morecould
they have promised themselves than has oc
curred I Were France herfelf to speak thro'
an American inouth I cannot conceive what
(he would fay other than -what we have heard
from tertaiiigentlemen to effcCt herpurpofes.
On every propolitiott for a prompt, energetic
and effectual defence of cur cuualrv, we are
met with fo/i,lituti<i>!al que/hms, theories, doubts,
nice ifritnitjions, learned metaphysical d]qU'f>ti'
ons, ar.d hrtg fpetckes to excite di.visions, en
courage the r party, occupy time, and pro
tract tins debate to an interminable and pro
voking extent; and this by men who have
been long devoted to Iter cause. This is the
greatest aKjcnt to which her mod artful
would thiok.it prudent togo ; open and di
rect opposition to all defence would defeat it
felf ; (Ire mud be condemned and her mea
sures reprobated ; (lie mult be confeffed to
have committed outrages on eur rights ; but
policy, policy, the fvreet enchanting song of po
licy, must be chaunted in our ears forever —
policy forbids refinance to the only wounds
ftie inflicts—the attacks us only by fta, it is
there only that we at present are vulnerable ;
and there this syren policy is to (ing us adeep.
We are invited to lurrender the ocean, and
" all that in it is" without one fae-ble effort
of defence. We are advised not to resist the
demands of France, tho' calleu upon to pay
her large fuins of money. [Mr. Living
ston interrupted Mr. A. and said he had fat
(till a long time and heard a mod uncommon
ft rain of calumny and attacks ; but this was
too serious a charge to pass unnoticed. He
wiftied Mr. A. to state fpecifically who had
expressed such a ientiment, for he lud not
heard it. ] On the penalty of my life, faiil
Mr. A. i would not in this place and on this
occaflon falfely ftste the arguments of gentle
men. I allude, Sir, to vhat waj (aid, and
so laboriously supported, by the gentleman
from Pennsylvania (Mr. Gallatin). His ve
ry words were, " we had better fuffer the
French to go on ivith their depredations, than to
take any ltep which may lead to war." 1
thought I had so often repeated the exprelii
ort that no gentleman could be ignorant of
■what I alluded to. If it does not amount to
what I have stated I hope I (hall be pardon
ed. But it seems impodible to put the Tene
ment into plainer and more explicit language
•than that in which the gentleman himfelf
clothed it.
'France takes our (hips, condemns them,
and treats our seamen as prifuners of war ;
that is, (lie (huts them up in her goals ;we
complain of her conduit and demand that (he
cease her outrages, and make us fatisfaition ;
ftie replies that (he will continue these cap
tures unless we pay her money ; and the gen
tleman now fays " fuffer her to go on." To
retufe compliance would be to refufe to fuf
fer her to continue her wrongs or enferce any
of her demands, that is, it would be to ltand
on our defence and repel her attacks; but
the gentleman fays, " fuffer her to go on"—
this I call advice not to refill her demands.
Her demands, taking her language and con
duit together, are, " pay me money, or let
me take your (hips," for neither of which
does (he pretend any juftification ; and the
gentleman fays, " let her take your (hips."
Is this the language of an American who
loves his country f No Sir, it is the language
of a foreign agent. Genuine Americans
Sir, disdain such language ; they love their
country and will defend it, unless the art of
these gentlemen (hall paralize our arm. Gen
tlemen fay we cannot defend ourselves, we
cannot raise the necessary funds to maintain a
war. • Sir, we have houses, farms and cattle,
and we Villfpend the last farthing ;we have
spirits, blood and bodies, and we will lay
them in the field of battle, for our country.
Do gentlemen fay we cannot defend our
selves ? Sir, this is language which Ameri
cans are not used to hear ; they 'will defend
the rights, the honour, the independence of
their country, or perifb, " the diplomatic fiill
of France, her means, and her party in this
c»untrv," notwithdanding.
In aid of this argument of policy it is urg
ed that there (till remains some chance, some
hope of preserving peace ; and this chance,
this hope is attempted to be made a balis of
afiion. L with any (Vicl. exiiled on which a
(ingle operation could be built; but I disco
ver none. The gentleman from Virginia
(Mh Nicholas) told us yefteiday that he did
not believe the present date of things could
lojig exiit, that peace must soon take place, in
Europe, on which, such was his opinion'of
France, judice would be done lis. [Mr.
Nicholas interrupted Mr. A. laying he had
said no such thing. ] Mr. A. said the gen
tleman's words were, "we (hall be redored
to our rights." [Mr. N. replied that he
meant that the powers at war would then
cease to -violate our rights. ] Mr. A. continu
ed ; that may have been the gentleman's idea,
but imported remuneration,
a compenjation for the 'violation of our rights.
But, Sir, a£ the gentleman himfelf his now
dated his idea, what foundation is there for it.
I do not underdand France thus to speak for
herfelf. I underdand her to make her padi
ons her guide, and her power her only rule ;
and tho' while die is engaged in combating
the mod powerful nation in Europe, (he can
not wage an open war with us ; yet when (he
has brought that power to her feet, (he re
minds us of our "fate by the mention of Ve
nice, and other powers of Europe which have
been obliged to submit to her dominion.
LMr. A. re;id another padage from the dis
patches in which it is said diould not aninva
(ion of England aitually take place, yet the
alarm, interruption of trade, and the expence
which it would create would ultimately wear
them out, and oblige them to make peace.]
The latter I tear will be the event; I believe
they w ill not conquer that country by attack ;
but thejx- is too much reason to believe they
drive will it to an ignominious peace by the
long continued conflict. And can wt expert
that Franco, when die has made peace with
England, will fit down in quiet and cultivate
only the arts of peace,and breathe nothing but
good will to men ( When die has humbled
the only porter that presents a formidable
front and terrible afpeit, islhetofetafeoutthe
introduction of that millenium of peace and
purity of which we have heard lo many fine
promises and peotical predictions. On the
contrary, if our difficulties are not fettled
with her before the subjugation of, ora peace
with Great-Britain takes place, and by that
meant her fleets which now serve us as a bar
rier, are withdrawn from the contelt, they will
not be fettled at all ; and if the course to
which we are invited is taken, and we now
" fuffer" her to (trip vis of our Ihips and sea
men, we (hall be incapable of defending our
selves. We have every thing to expect th.it
the avarice, the ambition, the malice and the
power of France can inflict. Sir, if Great-
Britain falls, and we remain a divided people,
I look for nothing but bloodlhed, daughter,
pillage and a complete subjection to France—
how can we prevent it. Nothing else can be
expected while gentlemen continue their pre
sent line of conduit ; wliild to every nieafure
of defence the expence is objected, and the
people arc told they cannot pay it ; while a
land tax is held out to the people as the great
ed of all evils, and by these and every poili
ble art the public arm is paralized, the pub
lic force dedroyed.
Let me add, as no contemptible engine in
this bulinefsof sowing discord, diffentionsand
dilfnilt'of the government, a vile incendiary
paper publilhed in thi* city, which condant
ly teems with the molt atrocious abules of ail
the measures of the government, and. its ad
miniftrators. A flood of calumny istfoiiflaiit
lv poured forth againll those whom the pen.
plejiave chosen as the guardians of the natio.i.
Tire privilege of franking letters is abused
in folding this paper into all parts of the
country ; and the pureli characters are, thro*
this medium, prodrated and laid low in the
view of .the people. No nation, no govern
merit was ever so insulted. In another coun
try, this printer and his supporters would long
agw have found a Fourth of September, and this
paper is well known always to speak the sen
timents of, and to be l'upported by, certain
gentlemen in this house. These, Sir, are the
Fruits of" the diplomatic (kill ps France"—
thefearetheeffe£tspfher " means"—these are
the efforts of " her party in this country." lam
aware that our government may not always, 011
all occasions, have. a£ted with the most perfeft
wisdom ; what government ever did J we are
not perfect, it iithelotofhumanify toerr. But
w«uld have conduced, our affairs more,
wifely ? Will gentlemen never their re
proaches f The gentlerpan from Pennlylva
nia,'.not many days (ince, declared that if we
have war. witlj France, it ivill be owing to the
publication of the dif patches and inftru&ions ! I
wi(h we may avoid a war, if poltible—but if
we do not, if war mtift come, I cannot believe
it will be produced by that publication. The
publication of those papers is acknowledged
by the gentleman to be an innocent ait in it
felf. A proceeding so proper and so honora
ble cannot draw upon us hodility and venge
ance; our enemy needs 110 such pretext, (he
scorns it —(he finds in her ambition, and her
luf} of domination, motives enough for war.
I desire that all the citizens ot the United
States (hould learn that this gentleman has
(aid " the publication of these papers will
lead France to make war on us," and I am
Aire they cannot) midake the motives to the
declaration. It is not the language of
tifm to lay that the publication of what the.
people were anxiously looking for and ex
pelling is to produce a war. The language
of every man who laves his country ought to
be, " A majority has determined what shall
be done, and we will support it; if it was our
error it was not a vice, and we will defend it."
But it Was not an error. Such is not the lan
guage to be produced by the " diplomatic
Iki 11 of France." That./?.'// (hews itfelf in great
apparent moderation and candour, but will
(lyly promote principles calculated to palsy
our efforts and defeat atl the exei tions for the
protection of our country's rights and inde
pendence. Such things will be practised un
til all men will to prefer their own coun
try to every other. Cut I, believe there are
men in this country, in this house, whofc ha
tred and abhorrence of our government leads
them to prefer another, profligate and fero
cious as it is.
The gentlemen who press upon us these
two ideas, viz. " we, have some chance of
peace and, an European peace writ reltore
to us our right!," have heretofore a (filmed to
underdand the temper, policy and projects of
the French government; and thereupon have
claimed authority to direst our affairs in rela
tion ts France; and have bitterly and loudly
condemned our want pt faith in them. Let us
examine the grounds of their claims»-let us
fee htowTfar their predictions heretofore have
been verified. • •
- Genet and his partlzans in this country,
told us Franee did not wifli us to join her in
the war. A few months after this, he pulled
his indruCtions from his pocket, and they were
found to enjoin upon him to.employ all pulTi
ble means to draw us info the war. These
gentlemen underdood Great-Britain too—
they kneix< (he would not treat with us at all,
much less on any terms of reciprocity". When
that treaty was made and ratified, they so
clearly saw her perfidy, and her hypocrisy,
they were certain (lie would not perform on
her part those imputations which were favor
able to us ; they knew ihe would not deliver
up the Western Polls, &c. Sir, we- (ee that
power performing her engagements with a re
ligiously good faith, that Fiance and her fero
cious tyrants never knew. N
These gentlemen have confiantly afl'ured us
that all the robberies, the decrees of fpolia.
tiou, the violations of her treaty with lis, her
embargoes, her comptflfory contracts with
our merchants in her ports, and her disregard
of all her contrails, were rheafures necefl'ary
to her very exidence, that they were the re
fuh of " an imperious necefiity ;" and that
when that neceflity ceased, when her liberties
were secured, when (he had repelled and
humbled the despots of Europe who were
leagued againd her, (he would cease her out
rages, and would render jufl ce so all who had.
futf'ered by her wrongs. Let the gentlemen
hold up their heads, and declare to us what
is now the cafe—She extends and encreafes
her ravages; her voracious jaws have en
gulphed all that has come within her reach.
Sir, I will remind the gentleman from Vir
ginia (Mr. Nicholas) and the gentfemen who
then acted, and now ait with him, that to the
answer to the President's speech, at the feflion
lad Summer, he moved an amendment in the
following words, viz. " v The rejection of our
Miniiter, and the manner of liifmifling him
from the territories of France, have excited
our warmed sensibility; and, if followed by
similar measures, and a rsfufal of all neeocia
tion on the fubjedt of our mutual complaints,
will put an end to every friendly relation be
tween the two countries ; but we flatter our
selves that the Government of France only
intended to suspend the ordinary diplomatic
intercourse, and to bring into operation thole
extraordinary agencies which are in common
use between nations, and which are confined
in their attention to the great causes of differ
ence. We therefore receive with the utmolt
fatisfaftion your information that a fredi at
tempt at negociation will be instituted; and
we expeit with confidence that a mutual (pi
nt ot conciliation, and a (tifpofition on the
part of the United States to place France on
the footing ot other countries, by removing
the inequalities which may have arisen in the
operation ot our respective treaties with them,
will produce an accommodation compatible
with the engagement#, rights, duties and ho
nour of the United States."
1 his amendment was nioft zentoudy flip
ported, and the debate upon it occupied this
House near three weeks at the extrairdinary
feflion lad Summer. I then thought it ill
timed, but I now believe it was a fortunate
motion—~it serves as a tejl by which to try
these gentlemen. The plain language of it
was, " We will make another attempt to ne
gociate, and a repetition of her abuses will
convince us that we cannot have any friendly
connexions with France." Sir, putting an end
to all friendly relations between two countries,
I underdand to be placing them in a (late of
bojltlity. 1 know of no mongrel half-breed (late
ot things after such an end is put to our rela
tions with a foreign nation ; it is war, or it is
peace. I'he citizens of one have a right to be
received in the ports of the other in a friend
ly manner, -riliey have not—if they have, it
U peace; if they have not, it is war. The
Prelident has made a frcdi attempt at negoci -
tion ; l.c has sent three Ministers in place of
the one, io beg and pray for compromiling,
for negotiation forjttliice and for peace. The
haughty Directory will not receive then), willnot hear them j its vile agents insult them
With demands of enormous lams, Sir, France
not only will not negociate, but Ihe will not
even suspend her depredations while one of
our Envoys can return home to procure such
powers as (he demands to be given them. She
admits the justice of our complaints, and de
clares we (hall fubinit to her power. The
event on which the gentleman counted in his
amendment has happened, but he now warm
ly contends for a continuation of friendly rela
tions between the two countries. It is proved
the government of France did not intend only
to suspend thtordinary diplomatic intercourle
and to bring into exertion those extraordinary
agencies. We have resorted to such extraor
dinary agencies ; we have sent three EEnvoys
Extraordinary. Her firft rejection of our Mi
nister has been followed by (imilar ineafures,
and a refufal of all negociation, and the gen
tleman now vehemently contends agatnft even
defence and reffiance !
It is proved that the Gentleman's " confi
dence" in the (uccefs of this 'MVefh attempt"
to negociate was utterly destitute of-foundati
on, and now again he fays " there is some
chance of peace," and " peace in Europe
will restore to us our rights." By this time I
think the Gentleman should hafitate and p'aufe
a little before he pronounces any more creeds
on tfie fubjert of French justice, French ho
nour, French moderation, Frenchmagninimitv.
The Gentleman in his amendment also laid,
" we cannot believe that any serious expeila
" tion can be entertained of withdrawing the
" support of the people from their conffituti
" onal agents"—and now (he boalts-of " her
41 means and her party" in America.
Sir, our dangers are roo imminent, too aw
ful to trifle with 5 our be
prompt, energetic, and decilive, 1 wish the
gentleman from Penrifylvanitt could be con
vinced of the propriety of withdrawing his
motion; and of"!*.: necelli yof unanimity
in our Councils. (Mr. A. read from the dif
patrhes, a part of Mr. Y's address to our En
voys. " What, he, Mr. Y. asked would be
" our situation if peace should be made with
" England before our differences with France
" would be accommodated.") This is * so
lemn enquiry j this is a question on which we
should well consider—l pray the Gentlemen
who arc now opposing our measures to make
the answer ; and I wish them the light of a
divine revelation in the foluti'on. Butif Gen
tlemen will not join us haart and hand, in the
defence of our rights and our Independence, I
do trod a fervor will kindle and spread thro'
tite country which will compel Gentlemen to
a'l and do their duty.
I hope, Sir, the Committee will pardon my
ardour on this occasion ; I am sure a majority
will. I cannot hear the threats which are
thrown out against us ; I cannot hear the de
nunciations of France agamftmy Country, and
fit down calmly r» calculate the pounds, fal
lings and pence which it will cost to defend it.
I do hope. Sir, the fervor of the Country, if
nothing else can affect certain Gentlemen, will
oblige this house to proceed immediately in
such measures as are proper for our defence—
I pray God this may (peedily be the cafe ; or
we are a ruined and devoted people. But while
I fee such motions as theprefent brought for
ward, and a pure America\(Mr. Brent) .de
clare that such sentiments as we heard
yeftertky from the Gentleman from Pennsyl
vania " would do honour to the head and
" heart of any man," I defpalr of any consi
derable degree of unanimity in this house.
( This Debate to Oe continued.J
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK. Ap.il afc.
Yeflcrdav arrived here from Calcutta, the ship
HARMONY, capt. Kollock ; which place she left
on the sth of December, having ftopt a few days at
the Cape of Goid Hope.
Mr. Alexander Smith, owner of the ship and car
gt*. who came in the Ha r mony, has favored us with
a file of Caicu'ra vapers up to the firtt of November
UWe (ball give some cxtra£U.
Cap* K'jHock spoke po«b'''g on his p*fTage, until
the wilt in & in lat 34 Ion;;. 71. fpoice a sloop
from tkit port Sound to Providence.
Same day. fell in with a large fchoor.er, which
they took to'be a Fiench mivateer having dog'd the m
for some timo-; but on difeovering them OTepand to
meet her. (Kc came not winhin hail of the Harmony.
Su«i&ay la I, they were boarded by the f nglifli
frigate Thetis, capt. Cochran, who treated them
with great poli:en«fs; and bv his officer, rcqueltea
their acceptance of some frefli beef and vegetables,
fcaving been only a few days from Norfolk.
Thorfdav lad. spoke the brig Lucretia, of New-
Bedfoid, a few leagues east of Sandy-Hook, bound
Jo Alexandria.
T he Harmony's crew chiefly consists of Malays,
- 45 in r.utrber, who arc much Utffcntd by the cold
ness of our climate.
Afahjteof flxteen guns was fired from the Harmo
ny 011 her entering the harbor,
Last evening at the Society for Free Dcba'e, held at
J-lunter's Hot-I, the quvftton, Would it be better poli
"cy under exifling circkjn fiances to lay an embargo, than
44 toirm in defence of our canning trade?*' —ws de
bated b:fcrc the m. 11 numerous concourse of
which have yet attended.
• a fter a lengthy debate, it was determined as the
ferf-of a very large majority r f the meeting, that
vndt CXiflinq citcumfianccs, t xvou;dbe better policy to arm
in atfeme of our carrying trade then to lay an embargo.
i he diteufTiou ot the mnttion naturaly calling in
tV» view the o miuct of our fOvcrnKient towards
Franc, inspired ttie meeting with a glow of patrt
ie anH, nftrr the question had bre«i deter
mirrtd andihe buHneft ot the Jvciety finilhcd by an
j»'f to tt-.e next regular meeting, it was pro
pofcd that the citizens then aifcmbled (amounting to
>t least four hundred and fi'fy) fhq*id express by a
*oteoiibe meeting, their (cotVmcnu the
coi duftof our government.
Co!. Morton being unanimouflv called the chair
motion, resolved alxnoft unanimoufl., that a
committee b'' appoiotcd to Preftdeni
Cpngtcii of the Uuited States in behalf of the
citifcftm rhcre assembled, cxprfffing their full appro
bat'ioo of the of the Executive of the Unit
ed Stites with relpc& to France —then entiie confi
dence iri his patriot Itn and firmnefs, and, their de
termination to support and defend at all hazards, tie
k-onor, the freedom, and the independence of cheir
counuy.
RcioWcd, that Col. Ja-ob Morton, Col fcbrne
t<" rSi evens. Nicno'as Rve*lfoi», John Cozine, anri
y.fub OgdiuH fFmjn, be the committee todraftand
ior>a .»rd Addrefs.
j *C<4B MORTON, Chaitman.
Jobu£. Se.»man, ScCteiaty.
HALT!MORE, april 27.
TV the Fdrier of the Federal Gazette.
Genfknu n,
IJaw with, much fnrprize in your Gazette of
a paragraph which afierts, that I had
reetive4 '«* letter from General Ptnckney, in which
i» pretended, he he had expeda
t.»on- of hawing an audience of thv French dire&o
tj with our other miniver* pfeniprtenMary : As I
revr receipt ftrcti information, I beg
yru the unfounded report
J and I eonvit cetf, th;tt
your love of tru h will induce you to comply with
which will greatly oblige
Chart.rs L PiXCKNir Horiv.
Tlryden'aliote! April '26
t\u addition tc thf lt>«»ve, we can afTcrt on the
bt« authority. th*t Mr Fenwick had never receiv*
ed any letter from Gen. Pm« krey, n.the iu l j* il
of the negotiation witb Chj dire<3or} ; lfld tlxat
tLe Gyi.cral I** a long time pafl refufed at!
»vith a infamous for the
many well attcftod piracies carried on againli hU
own country. Whatever may have been the in
tention of the author ol the tile, it certainly was
calculated, if left uneon radidled, to. have a very
injurious tendency at this time, by oill holding up
a delusive hope to the well iiifj»ofed, a raltyis g
point to the difaffected, a- d rendering the govern
ment fuhjeil to the caprice and difpotic ambi.ion
of a foreign nation !
mmmi—■— ■■m
Xiyt
PHI L A DEL PH IA ,
MONDAY EVENING, April 30
Proceedings of the Town of Providence*
in th« State of Rhode-Island.
At a numerous Meeting of the Inhabitants of
the T»<wn of Providence, apmlled by pub
lic notice, <n confeqticnce of a requejl fgncti
by forty-Jive citizens, at the Town House•
on Saturday the 2\Jl day of April I 798, to
take into confideratitn the propriety of pre
senting a refpeclful address to the Preftdent
of the United States, exprejfive of approba
tion of the Pre/ident's conduS, in relation to
the Foreign concerns of the United States—
The Hon. jfabez Boifen, Chairman.
Jjmf.s Bvrrili, Jun.efq. Seo'y,
The requefc for convoking the meeting
was read and the objeft of the meeting dat
ed by the chairman. After several gentle
men had delivered thtir opinions upon the
(late of affairs and tTie negociation with '
France, the inftru&ions of the President to
thf Envoys extraordinary appointed to ne
gociate with the French republic were read,
it was then rtfolved, nemine eontradicente, that
Dr. David Howell, Welcome Arnold, John
Brown, Amos Maine Atwell, John Dor
rance. John S. Dexter and James Burrill
jun. efq. be appointed a committee to pre
pare an address, from the inhabitants of
Providence, to the President, exprefllve of
their unqualified approbation of his conduft
in relation to the republic of France, and
to all other foreign concerns of the United
States, and their resolution to support the
dignity and independence of the United
States, with their lives and fortunes ; that
they report said address to this meeting, at
its adjournment, and that the fame when ap
proved of by the meeting be offered to the
inhabitants for their signatures.
The. meeting was then adjourned to Mon
day next, at 10 o'clock in the morning.
Monday, April
The inhabitants again assembled, in a
very full meeting, agreeably to their ad
journment. The committee, Appointed for
that purpose, reported an address which be
ing several times read, was unanimously ap
proved ; ordered to be presented to the in
habitants, for their fignatures,and afterwards
transmitted, by the chairman, to the Sena
tors and Representatives of this State in
Congrtft, to be by them presented to the
President, with the minutes of the proceed
ings of this meeting.
This address as reported and adppted, was
forwarded by the mail, which arrived here
on Saturday lad, with a letter from the
chairman, dated on the 24th instant, to the
Senators and Representatives in Congress,
from the State of Rhode-Island, requeuing
them to present it. They this day waited
on the President, at ten o'clock in the morn
ing, and presented the address to him. It
is as follows.
To the President of the United States.
SIR,
The underwritten inhabitants of the Town
of Providence, voluntarily assembled, in
pursuance of public notice, beg leave to ad
dress you, with sentiments of and
profound refpeft.
The late disclosure of the views and de
signs of France, ,in contrail with the pacific
disposition of the United States, has excit
ed the most-disgusting apprehensions of hof-
from that republic, and the mod un
limited confidence, in the wisdom, integri
ty and patriotism of the administration of
our Government.
In the progress of the negotiation with
that republic, whose legitimate origin we
were the firft to acknowledge, a republic
which, at the dawn of it's political day,
Teemed elevated to the fnblimeft height of
virtue, and disclaimed, in the firft exercise
•of its power, all right to interfere in the in
ternal concerns of other nations, we observe
with regret, a departure from the great prin
ciples of liberty and justice, and we observe
this with'the deeper regret, because that
country received its firft leffun of liberty
from ours.
After the numberless and trying proofs
which the United States had given of their
sincere desire to preserve an impartial neu
trality, their repealed applications for re
dress, might, at le&ft, have been answered
with profeffions of amity, and of a love of
justice, instead of an avowed intent flill fur
ther to impovefifh us, and to pursue a stu
died system of universal domination.
While we lament that some of the inha
bitants of this country have too much at
tached themselves to European politics, we
bclie»e this dangeious miftake.~ proceeded
not from a treacherous defeftion from the
cause of their country, but from the faf
cination of the brilliant fpeftacle of a nation
vjdtorioufly contending for its liberties.—
We reji'ce that the scales have now fallen
from their eyes—they must now fee, what
enlightened statesmen have seen before, that
the sacred name of liberty is profaned to
disguise proje£l3 of ambition ai d conquest.
Your late communications must cement
the public councilsandencreafetheenergy of
government. The inadmifiible and exorbit
ant exaflions of Fiance, will not only de
prive them of every American advocate, but
convince the world that' an adjustment of
the differences between the two countries,
was impracticable on any other basis than
the prollration of America at the feet of
France. The result in the mind of every
American ir.uft be t manly determi' ation to
vindicate the honour and intercft of his coiin
try.
Should wc be driven to the 2sft appeal,
we have an evtenGve conntry, full of re
fourees, and we t-uft in GOD, v*bo has hi
therto fofiiniallv favored us, that he will a-
O / '
gain inspire us with that glowing zeal and
nndifmayed coinage, which in a period not
remote, the people so fuceefsfully displayed,
and in such an exigency we (hall derive ad
ditional confidence from the firm moderati
on, the lo' g tried integrity, t'nt ripened
wisdom which induced an enlightened nation
to place you at the helm of government.
We cannot close without assuring you of
our entire approbation of your conduit, in
relation to the foreign concerns of this coun
try—of our prayers for your personal health
and happiuefs, and of our readiness, with
our lives and fortunes, to support the dig
nity and independence of the United States.
Signed by one Thonfand and Twenty-
Seven of the principal Merchants, Free
holders and Inhabitants of the Town of
Providence.
To which the Prejident was p^enfed to return
the following ANSWER :
To the Inhabitants of the town of Providence
in the slate of Rhnde-IJland.
Gentlemen,
This refpedtful Address from the inhab
itants cf Providence, who have been my
friends and neighbors from my youth, was
by no means neceflary to convince me of
their affedtionate attachment.
Imagination can scarcely conceive a
ftionger contrast, than has lately been dis
closed between the views of France and
those of the United States. I will not
distinguish between the views of ihe gov
ernments and those of the' nations 5 if in
France they are different, the nation whose
right it is will soon shew that they fo :
if in America they are the fame, this fa£t
also will be (hewn by the nation in a fliort
time in a strong light. I cannot however
fee in this contrast a fufficient cause of dis
quieting apprehensions of hostilities from
that republic : hostilities have already come
thick upon us by surprise, from that quar
ter—if others are coming we /hall be bet
ter prepared to meet and repel them.
'When we were the firft to acknowledge
the legitimate origin of the French Repub
lic, we Wifcovered at least as much zeal,
fmcerity and honesty of heart, as we did of
knowledge of the fubjedt, or forefight of
itsconfequences—theillfuccefsofthofe proofs
which the United States have given of their
sincere desire to preserve an impartial neu
trality, and of their repeated negociations
for redress of wrongs have demonstrated,
that other means mult be reforte4, to, in or
der to obtain it.
I agree entirely with you in acquitting in
general, those of our citizens, who have
too much attached themselves to European
politics, of any treacherous defeftion, from
the cause of their country : The French
Revolution, was a fpedacle, so novel, and
the cause was so complicated, that I have
ever acknowledged myfelf incompetent to
judge of it, as it concerned the happiness of
France, or operated on that of mankind 5
my countrymen in general, were, I believe
as ill qualified as myfelftodecide; the French
nation alone, had the right and the capa
city, and to them it ihould have been resign
ed ; we ihould have iafpended our judg
ments, and been as neutral and impartial
between the parties in F rafl ce as between
the nations of Europe.
The honor of our nation is now nniver
fally seen to be at flake, and its indepen
dence in question, and all America appears
to declare, with one heart, and one voice,
a manly determination to vindicate both.
Trie legislature, by the late publication
of inftruftions and dispatches, have appeal
ed to the world, and if the iron hand of
power has not locked up the presses of Eu
rope, in such a manner that the fafts can
not be communicated to mankind, the im<
partial sense, and voice of human nature,
mull be in our favor. If perseverance in in
justice should ncceflicate the last appeal,
whatever eaufes we may have to humble our
selves before the supreme tribunal, we have
none, for any other sentiment, than the pride
of vi'tue, and honest indignation against the
late conduit of France towards us. 1 thank
you gentlemen, for your personal civilities
to me, and return your kind wiJhes for my
happiness.
Your noble declaration of your readiness,
with your lives and fortunes, to lupport the
dignity and independence of the United
States, will receive the applause of your
country, and of all others who have the fefi
timents and feelings of men.
JOHN ADAMS,
April 3oth, 1798.
ExtraA of a letter from a gentleman in Providence
(Rhode -Mami) to hi« friend in this city, dated
April 17th, 1798.
"By the mail of this day, will be transmitted
the proceedings of the inhabitants of this town,
and the address by them individually signed to the
President, pledging onrfelves to support the pub
lie councils and meafu'res, for fecuringour ration
al honor and independence.
" The perfenal attachment to, and confidence
in, the Hrefidvnt, is increnfed to an ardent affec
tion,— and the whole adniinitlration (land as strong
in New England as the we> l *rn mountains. The
French I believe are left friendlefs here."
»
CALLENDER TURN'D OFF.
Bad e begins to be aftiamed or rather tired of
his scald-headed affociaie— In the Aurora of this
morning we find Callender disavowed as a «or
trioutor to the elegancies of that repofitorv, or as
having any participation in its editorship—lt is
pofliSle that the scald-headed Paup rhas been aflc
ir.g forfome of those broken vitftuals, which his
cmployi r is not so well able to fjsare, as when in
employers were on the (pot.
The following name was oinitted in the liO of thef*
clewed *s tvembcrs of the Pbilofophical Society
of Penufylvania, the 20th Aptil, publiihed in
Saturday's Gazette—viz.
JuLirN NiaMcawrcz\ »f Poland, now in the
United States. •
POUT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED, days
Snip Liberty,' Jones, from Alexandria 8
Br.'g Union, Fitcl.er,
Jane, Wtilife, Cape Fra'iuois 15
Sally, Hainp'on, St. Bartholomews 16
Betlev, Fotrett, Acquin 16
Schooner lane, Gree-nwell, Lisbon 4;
Fiyinfj Sqtiirre l , Bn(h, Havamia 16
Regnla'or, Hamilton, Norfolk 3
Maria, Ober, Clurlcflon 6
Sloop Supply, Wallace, L'Anrev'pju 2+
Betsey, Sweetzer, Charlelfon 7
CLEARED,.
Ship Delaware, Swords, for Canton
Kinker, London
Eagle, Berry, Oporto
Caesar, Howland, do.
H*pe, Younghufband, New Windsor
Brig Anna, Maffit, Gonaives
Maria, Sherer, Charleston
Schooner Tryal, Hand, Alexandria
Capt. Hampton of the brig Sally, informs
that he left at St. Martins the 6th inttant, the
following vefTels, prizes.
Brig Anthony, Ganet, of Philadelphia, con
demned.
Franklin, Morris, Wilmington, do. pur
chased by the capt. and to fail in 6 or 8 davs.
George Walhington, Devereaux, of Phi
ladelphia, do.
Betsey, Black, Wilmington, N. C. do.
Little Samuel, White, Baltimore, do.
Sally, Arnold, N. York, do. purchased
by the capt. and to fail soon.
Vulture, Lambert, cleared, (not being
worth condemning.)
Betsey, Weaver, Newport, fortral.
Frederick, Colman, Portland do.
Schr Betsey, Connor, Alexandria, condemned
Atlantic, Stanton, Stonington do
Induttry, Knapp, Salem, fyf trial.
Sloop Sally, Stotfbury Philadelphia condemned
Mary, Totten, Newl«ven, for trial
Anna Cofbin, Jurtic, Folly Landing, con
demned.
Sally, Union, Marblehead, for trial.
Capt. Hampton left St. Bartholomews the
itth inft. on the 10th the French privateer Le
Mode de Patrie, capt. Mofcafo, arrived with
matters and part of the crews of the following
veiftls that (he had captured and sent into
Porto Rico, during her lad cruise,. and was
thenonherway to Guadaloupe with their
papers for trial, viz.
Brig Resolution, Letter, of Norwich fromDe
merara, at which place he left the
Brig Sea Nymph, M'Dougal of Philadelphia,
Lucy, Clap, Hartford, from Demerara
Ship Augusta, Story, Newhaven, for Surinam
Brig Oburtney, Watson, Norfolk, for Jama.
Sc. Lucretia, Young, Portland, from Tobago
The privateer left.Porto Rico the 28th tilt,
at which time there lay about jo fail of Ame
rican prizes; amongst them were
Ship New-Jersey, Clay, of Philadelphia, from
Canton, captain gone to St. Domingo for
trial.
Ship Fame, of New-York, mounting 8 guns,
sent in by a privateer of 4 guns.
Three captains, 4 mates, and 6 seamen,
came home passengers in the Sally.
There are ten (ail of American prizes at St.
Euftatia. The harbourof St. Bartholomews
is daily blockaded by French privateers, who
are fuffered bythe Swedish government there
noronly to capture the vettels of other neutral
powers, but the vessels belonging to the ittand
under the guns of the fort, and fend them to
St. Martin's.
Captain Hampton was at Guadaloupe the
17th of March, at which time more than 40
fail of American prizes Jay in the different
poTfsof that ittand. He Was at Nevis on the
ift instant, where lay the (hip Philadelphia,
of Philadelphia—was at St. Kitt's, and left
there the 3d, the brig Betsey', Griffin, New-
Haven.
Captain H. further informs, that in conse
quence of the late instructions of the Court of
London, respecting neutrals, several priva
teers were fitting out at St. Kitt's, and 9 at
Antigua ; and that a brig from Baltimore for
Guadaloupe, with 800 barrels of flour, had
been sent into St. Kitt's under those orders :
that one-eighth of the cargo of the Pigou was
landing at Antigua for salvage : that part of
the crew of that veflel had reached Si. Bar
tholomew's from Guadaloupe, from whence
they had taken paflage to Charletton, and that
the remainder had left Guadaloupe in a row
boat, and arr.ved at Antigua.
The Schooner Jane, Greenwell, failed front
Lisbon the :7th ult. previous to which the
Britilh (hip Swifisure of 74 guns, had arrived
there with the information of the death of the
Dey of Algiers : that Mr. Smith, the Ameri
can minitter, immediately took patlage in that
vet Tel supposed for Gibralter : that only 3 Bri
tilh men of vvar remained at Lisbon with I.ord
St. Vincent, the reft being off Cadiz. The
Spanish Court it was reported, were negociat
inga peace for Portugal. Capt. Greenwell
was at Bilboa, and failed, from thence the 13th
of Februajy in company wtth the brig Minerva,
Long, of this port, for Bordeaux. April 23,
Lat. 38. long. 70, spoke the Ihip John and
Elizabeth, Galloway, 70 days out from the
Hie of France for Botton; next day spoke the
brig Rainbow. Cm if, front ihe Havannah to
Botton ; next day the (hip Edward, from the
Havannah, to Providence.
Capt. Vanfife, of the Jane, informs, that
previous to his failing, the (quadronof frigates
from Brett had arrived at Cape Francois.
Captain Fitcher left at Bourdeaux the ift ult. the
brig Minerva, I.ong, of this port, and Sally, Lo
gan, do. to fail next day for St. Thomas; brig Ami
able Matilda, Brown, taking in. On the 17th inft.
lat. 31, long. 65, was boarded by a French priva
teer brig of 12 guns, ane was plundered of a variety
of articles belonging to the cargo, rigging, fails,
money, Sec. the men robbed of all their spare clo
thing, and two of them dabbed badly; they then
put on board the Union 9 men that they had taken
out of thefchooner Little Gray, Hawas, of V/afh
ington, to St. Bartholomews, and schooner Betsey,
from Barbadoes, to North Carolina, whichthey had
raptured a few days befoie, and ordered for Porto-
Rico »
New-Tori, April 28.
ARRIVED, 1 DAYS.
Ship Harm ony, Kollo.k, Calcutta
Diana, Duplex, Havannah rj
Eliza, Allen, Jacqudmel 26
Brig Georgia Packet, Thomas, Havannah 16
Clinton, Champlain, do. 16
Mary Anne, Marnner, Jamaica 23
Schr. Two-Brothers, Tupper, N Carolina 6
CHARLESTON. April r 9 .
The snow South Carolina, Captain-An
drews, from this port for the Havanna, laden
with fait, has been captured by the Britilh
frigate Thetis, Captain Cochran, and sent to
Halifax.
An order is receiver! at the Havanna from
Spain, prohibiting the entry, of all Britilh 111a
nufaiSures.
From " Le Patriots Francaife," efyrHerday.
" A Paris paper of the 1 3th of February,
fays, after mentioning the new appointments
that have been made by the Directory in the
diplomatic and consular iine, "there is no
change in our legation to the United Sta'es ;
the wrerk of the legation remaining there will
ejercile their functions, until the differences
between France and the Anglo-Americans
are terminated, cr until they are recalled to
Fi.ti.ce."
zn?
NFAV-THIiATRF. "
(ttr panrrcui.Aß
TO-MORROW EVENING, May i,
Will be i>r>.r<:nr#d, (hr favorite 1 RAGlii V ol
ISABELLA ;
Or, THE FATAL MARRIAGE.
After the 7'rng-rdy, will le rrrfentcd.
AN OCCASIONAL INTERLUDE.
Particulars will be expressed in future bills.
To which will be added, the COMIC OPERA of
The PADLOCK.
$2" On Wednesday evening, a. Comic Oper;),
(rot >.3ed these two y.ars) called LIONEL ANii
CLARISSA > Or, A SCHOOL FOR FATHiiR.S
—with a Pantomime (never performed here) call
fd FORTUNATUS; or,HARLEQUIN';. WISH
ING CAP—with a variety of Entertainments—
For the benefit of Mr. Warull, and Mr. Was.
kill, jtin.
*,* Mr. and Mifi Milhouhni's Night tvill be'
on Friday next
The Last Night.
FOR THE BENEFIT OF
Mr. SULLY.
Mr SULLY having been, by unforeseen fortu
itous circumflar.ccs deprived of his late fuuation*
an' prevented, at the New Circtii, ef receiving tha
assistance of his friends and the public, ventures to
put his name up f.»r a Bene6t, with the afliftir.ee
of Mr. Chalmers and others, at Rirketts'- Circus
on Monday next, April 30th, 1798 ; to which ha
r?fpeSfully invites them, and flutters himf.MF the
Bill of Fare with which he hss the honor of pre
senting them, will prove both pleating and attr,cJ
tive. There being no performance aMhe TUeatru
on that evening, is the occasion of the alteiation
from Tncfdav.
WAGS AND ODDITIES,
<m
THE MEDLEY;
CONSISTINC or
Entertainments, Dramatical and Pantomimical
Dances, Song, and Sentiment.
ill mRT.
ADDRESS,
CONTAINING THE GRECIAN FABI.E,
Mr Ch\:,mer?,
A Differ! at ion cn Jcaloufy, by an American
I^sdy—her frjl appearance.
1 HE TATLKR,
Taken from
-THE DEUCE 'IS IN HIM.
Deilor Hrattie—Mr Chalmers.
Emily—Mrs Rowfon.
B'-lle—hy a young Lady of this City.
To conclude with ihc Comic 1 ale of The Spirit of
ContraJif.itn—by Mr Coalmen.
Lawyers pay you with words, ct the end of a Song
By WI1 1 Sully.
ON THIS NIGHT MRS c m,LT
Will perform aPeit/Pouri 0:: the Grand Pfa no Forte
BUCKS HAVE AT YE ALL ;
With a Dash at the Belles—Mr Chalmers.
»a iPART
A Burlettx, called
LINCO's TRAVELS,
OR,
HOME IS HOME.
Linco, rar Sully ; Damon, by mr Frederick ;
Dorcas, mrs Rowfon ; Shepbards and Shepherd
esses, by others.
The performances of the lajl evening having
taken up more time in Representation
than was expected, induced Mr.
Chalmers to omit the Tale of
Tom King, or. Monsieur Tonson,
It will, by particular desire, be g vsn this evqi-ng.
Duct 011 the Gland Piano Forte—By Air. Benjamin
Carr and Mrs. Sully.
Notoriety, or All for a Name,
In the charaiSer ol Nominal—Bv Mr. Chalmers
,5d PART.
MASTERI Y FEATS OF ACTIVITY.
WITH CROUXD AND
LOFfY TUMBLING,
By Mr. Sully and his Pu • il».
4th PARJ.
A PANTOMIME ENT E R TAIN ME NT, calUi
THE POWER OF LOVE; m
Or, The Vicjffitudes of Fortune.
V. ith the Dying an i Skeleton Scenes.
Harlequin—Mr. Suily.
| With many fuprifmg Leaps, Efcspes, and Feats
•;f Activity, particularlythroi;ph
A CHURCH STEEPLE TLN FEET HIG
Don Ronando.Mr. Frederick—Father; Mr.Tom
kins—Clown, Mr Ponyar.
Venus, with a Song, by jhe yountr laiv who wr.
foi sis Belle,in the Dcucc is in Him—volumliine
| Mrs. Rowfon. ,
The -whole to conclude tj'ith
An EPILOGUE, ir. thechaaiier ef Harlequin by
M*. Suit-v.
To finilh with a I.eap, eight feet h ; gh, tshrough
A grand Display of Variegated Fire.
Tickets to be had ol Mr. Sully, ,%'o jj, So-irh
Fifth Street, near tfe-. New Circus; of Mr. Chal
mers, No. 39, South Front Street ; at B. Carr's
Muficalllore, Market ltreet, and {J'i llers's Hot' &
—Th: outstanding tickets of Mr. Chalmers f
lurfday 'alt will be admitted this evening.
•»* Particular attention will b.' p i! to rhe bet
ter lighting of the ftagc. Mr.Chaiin r« is sorry to
hear many of his friends departed the last night be
fore the performances were at an end, owing to a
misconception by his giving out the iutcntniis for
this evening.
03- Mr. Sully begs leave to ac
quaint hii fr.end* and the public, that tbe new
FEDERAL SONG to the tune of the Ppksi-
DfNT's March, will he given among the variety
of Entertainments performed at Ricketts'.C'u cu»,
this evening, April 30. for his Benefit.
POS 1-OFFICE, ~~
Philadelphia, 28th, April
Letters for the British Packet, for
Falmouth, -will be received at this Office,
until 1 ttefday the \JI May at 12 o'clock
( noon.)
N. B. In! Mid Post age irujl be paid to
Ne-w-Tork.
: LANDED THIS PAT,
From on board the (hip rtlex nder rapt. Brown,
from Jacqneni*!, at >Vilcoclt»' whart. aljeut
80,000 wt. of flue Green Coffee
in hogfhcad% harr«'« anibagt
For Sale—apo!\ to
j jhn iVijttejuJcs iff Co.
WHO HAS ON' HAND,
Claret of the firlt quality, in cases
»P ri ' Jo- ' _ s6t
Aloes at Aua ion.
Oh TEUSDAV next the ill of M.y, at 11 o'clock
at Footman and Co',. o!:tfi»u Store. be
fo'd for approved indorl d notes at <0 djvs
A Quantity of Cape Aloes
In lon toTuit thepurch»f-:s. cf a good • ual'r*
being the nroperty of a p rfon dec. afed ' "
FOOTMAN iS* Co. Auctioneers.
»P'il ti.
4 L^f«Grass Lots to let.
THREE contiguous Lota of Ground, contain- I
ing iomething more than an acre, Gtu'trcl in f
Carpenter street, between Third and Fourth street,
Southwark ; to rent separately or together, for
the year or longer. They are in good order and
generally produced hay for fifteen years pall.
Upon one lot is a frame dwelling house, a garden,
Well of water, and hay (tables. For further in
formation, enquire at No. 11, North Third street.
April ij. eodlw
Germantown and Reading 1 urn
pike Road Company.
THE Subfcwbern Cornmiffioners appointed by
an Adl of Affeinbly of this Commonwealth
entitled, " An a«ft to enable the Governor of this
Commonwealth to incorporate a Company tor
making an Artificial Road frotn the city of Fh -
ladelphia, through Germantown, by the rout
of Chefnut Hill, to the twelve mil* ftoiie on
the Reading Road, and thence to Reading 111 the
county of Berks," hereby give notice, that books
are provided as the law directs, and that we
will proceed to receive fiibferiptions for ti.e com
pany's ft»ck on the 18th, 19th, and 30th days
of May next, at the City Hall, in the city of
Phi!ade!phii,at the T»vern of William Buchois,
in Germantown, at the Tavern of Jacob Berr,
in Reading in the county of Berks, and at the
Tavern of George Phleger, in Potts-Town in
the county of Montgomery, on the fame days,
from ten o'clock in the morning, until two o
clock, P. M. on each day, when and where cer
tain of the Comitu (Tinners will attend to receive
fubferiptions accordingly.
anril 14th, 1798.
BENJAMIN CHEW, jun.
CASPAR W. HAINES,
SAMUEL BET I ON,
GEORGE LOG AN,
ISAAC FRANKS,
v JOS HEISTEK,
J. BOWER,
DANIEL ROSE,
S \MUEL LAVERTY,
GEORGE DOUGLASS,jun,
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
N. B. Fifteen Dollars to be paid on each
.lhareat the time of fubferibing.
April 17 —eodt3QM
The Annual Election
T7OR Directors and a Treasurer of the Library
V Company of Philadelphia, will be held at the
Library, in Fifth street, on Monday, the ;th of
May next, at three o'clock in the afternoon, when
the Treasurer will attend to receive the annual
payment*.
As there are ftveral (hares on which fins' are
due, the owners ot them, or theirrepref»nt£tives,
are hereby notified, that they will be forfeited, a
greeabiy co the laws of the company, unless the
arrears arr paid off on the f»id 7th day of May,
or Within ten days after.
By of th« Dsr«dtors,
TiENj .MIN R. MORGAN, Secretary.
April J ' 3 aw
notice."
T-'KS Partn;r/hip of the fubferifcirs,
.L der the fitm of PAXSON & RICHARD
SON, was diffo'.ved on the sixth of the fftrd mouth
lad, by ttutinl ejnfcnt- All pcrfons indebted j
thereto are ea/ncHly requested totaake payment ; >
and thoie that have any demands agayift the fame, !
are desired to pi-; fnt their accounts for settlement
to either of thefubferiber*.
Ifcetc Pax/on,
Nathaniel Rithardfpn.
Philadelphia, <th mo. 3d, 179®-
isaac"paxson,
Continues to carry on the buiinefs at the umal
place, No. 10, South Third street, where he has
on hand a lar£e assortment of Ironaion§ery> Sad
dlery, Cut'ery and Brass Ware 9, which he will ftll
wholuf&i# or retail, on low terms, for ciih or tha
usual credit. He ctfpe<sts to receive by the firft
veflcls from London, Bristol, Liverpool and Hull,
s a large addition to his present afiortraent ; and |
will execute with pun<sluality and care any orders
from the former cuftomeps, and his friends in gen
eral. aaw4W
To be Let,
(And immediate pofleffion given)
M Plea&nt Couutry Seat, on the German
jl\. town road, five miles and a quarter from
the City. Enquire at No. 39 Pine-street.
April 17, **wtf
Salifbufy Estate.
THE Subscriber, proposing to contrast hit buft
nefs, offers this Flla'.e for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Btsl and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and » very good gTifi
Mill, with two pair of flones ; also « good F?rge, all
in pcrftft repair, as are all the Wster Works conne£l
<d with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately buiJt tor the purpose of carting Cannon
for this State.—There are about two thousand acres
of Land, one half of which it under wood, theother
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
\ Failure. The Cannon lately mannfatlured there,
fuliy proves the excellency of the metal, which is
foperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any ia the world ; for not one of sixty-nine gHns
lately made, although some of the were bored
into 31 pounders, ha»e fiil<d on proving. The filu
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufaSure, and a place of arms lying in the Rate
of Conneflicut.and only 30 miles from several land
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water iflTuinjj
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can beaccommodat
ed wiih all the flock and utensils, and have poffeflion
onor before the fii ft of Junenexi, and preparation
may be made in the meantime for going into Blast im
mediately thereslter, for every part will bedeltvered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. &c. For
terms, apply to Mr. ]o(eph Anthony, in Philadel
phia i DavidJJrooks, Esq. one of the ReprefentU-ives
in Congress for this Stale ; Mr, David Waterman, on
ibepremifes, or to the proprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NiILSON.
Pee. t. gawif
Valuable Stands for Bulineis.
FOR SALE—by the Subscriber,
Two Lots of Ground,
Situate on the south fide of Chefnut-Qreet, be
tween Second and Third street* :—one containing
eighteen feet, and the other fevenafm feet, more or
ess, 011 the said street, and both extending, the
lf*me breadth, one hundred and forty-eight, more
or less, to Carter's allty.
There are, on Chefnut-ftreet, two two-story
BRICK HOUSES
(Numbers 80 and 8a)
Which may readily be made iiito one ; and, oh
Carter's alley, there is a couvenimt, well built
three-116ry
Brick House and Kitchen,
Atmo.l new, which has two rooms on a floor
and a frliit of eighteen feet on said alley.
This pro-,..-ty is clear of ground-i at, and an
indisputable title vail! be giTen tu tor.yi.rchafer.
Tlie three HouUs will be fold fepat or toge
ther.
Further particulirs may h* known on cpplica
t't" °ZACHARIAH POULS&N, jutr.
No. 80, Chcl&ut-iliccC, or at th 4 LUirary.
starch ifefiCtr
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH 1, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN purfuanee of the A<S of Cengrefs palled on the sixth day of July one thoufind seven hundred and
nii.ety-feven, entitled " An AA laying duties on btamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", and the
Ad parted on the fifteenth day of December, one thousand seven hundred and nifTctv-feveH, entitled
" An ASt to poftponefor a limited time the commencement of the duties imposed by the Act enti
tled «' An Av.t laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Piper", that from and after the
firll day of July enf«ing, the several Stamped Duties h.reafter enumerated, will be levied ar.d collec
ted throughout the United Statss.
For every skin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or sheet or piece of Paper, upon which (ball be
written or printed any or either of the instrument. ®r writings] olio wing—to wit :
t Dls Cts. |Mh
Any Certificate of Naturalization, - - - - - S
Any Licence to practice,or Certificate of the admiflion,enrolment fir regillry of
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Protfor, in any Court of the
United States, - * - " " . 10
Provided, that a Certificjte in any one of the Courta of the United States
for one of the said Offices, (hall so far as relates to the payment of the
duty aforelaitl, be a fufficient admiflion in all the Courts of the United
States, for each and every of the said offices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United States
(except for lands granted for military services) - - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any fueh grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military services) ... i
Any Charter-Party, Bottomry, or Refpondentia Bond, - - l
Any Receipt or discharge for or on accountof anyLegacyleftby any Will or e
ther teftamenlary instrument.or for any (hare or part of a perlonal estate di
vided by force of any statute of diftrHjuti.*ns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceased.the amount whereof (hall he
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and (hall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, - - - " "
When the amount thereof (hall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
(hall not exceed five hundred dollars, - ■ 50
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional sum of I
Any Policy of Insurance or inftrament in nature thereof, on any (hip, veflel or
goods infnred from one diflriil to another in the United States, . 25
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which
Insurance is made (hall not exceed five hundred dollars, - 1 j
When the sum insured (hall exceed five hundred dollars, - 1
A*y Exemplification, as what nature fecver, that lhall pass the seal of any
Court, other than lurh as it maybe the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
fursifh for the ufeofthe United States or some particular (late, - 50
Any Bond, bill single or penal, foreign or inland hill of exchange, promifiory
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill,bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or with the United States or any (late, or for their
use refpedlively, - - - "
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars and nit exceeding five hundred dollars, %5
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, jo
And if above one thousand dollars,
Provided, that if any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or notes Iball be fubjea to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforelaid—viz.
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 4
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dotln e, I 0
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, i 0
If above one thousand dollars, - - - " 3°
Any Notes iflV/ed bv the banks now eftablithcd, or that may hereafter be eflab
lifhed within the' United States, other than the notes of such of the said Banks
as (hall agree to an antiual composition, of one per centum on the annual di
vidend* made by such Banks, to their Stockholders refpe<?.ively, according to
the following scale. -
On all notes not exceeding fifty for each dollar, - - t>
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, 50
Cn all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollar*, - - * 1
On all notes above five hundred dollars, * 4
Any Protest or other Notarial afl, - " 45
Ai»y Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfioo, or to obtain or fell vv ar
rints for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
performed in the late war, - - " * *S
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for left than
tive hundred dollars, - - - 1
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, a
For more than two thousand dollars, ... 3
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
H' from one diftritft to another diftria of the United States, not being in the
fame State, - - - " ' 10
If from the United States to arty foreign port or plaee, - - 25
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effsfts, made in any
cafe required by law, (e«ce£t in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
rent or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share in any Insurance Company, of a (hare in the Back of
the United States, or of any State or other Bank, , ;
If above twenty dollars and not eiceedirig onC hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundre I dollars, * »5
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
The duties aforefaid will be colle6led and received by the Supcrvifors, Tnfpeaors aud other Officers
of fn/peilion, in the several Diftrids, Serveye and Divisions of the United States, and by such other
persons as lhall from to time be specially appointed and employed by the Sipervifors of Diftritfs for
that purpose.
The Supervifsrs of the several Diftrifls will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and a* soon a*
may be pra«slicable, mark or flamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of the said duties ; Or
stamped vellum, parchment and paper n.ay at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained at tht rates prescribed by law, by application to any Supervilor, lufpedor, Officer of Infpe&ion,
or other par Con appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Sopervifors of Diftriels.
GJyEN under my Haud y at Philadelphia
the day and year akovemeniiortfd.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secretary of the Treasury.
James Humphreys,
BETNG encouraged by a number of gentlemen
in the mercantile line, to undertake the pub
liihing of a Price Current in this city, and they
having engaged to give him every afliftance in their
power to render it accurate and ufeful,
PROPOSES TO PRINT BY SUBSCRIPTION,
The Philadelphia Price Current,
And Market Day Advsrtifer.
To be published every Weanefday and Saturday
morning, on the following conditions.
It will be printed on four pages quarto. It will
contain the Prices Current (whokUle) at Phila
delphia, with the duties on each article—The Pri
ces Current at Boston, New-York, Charleston,
. and other parts of the United States, witli the Pri
ces Current at Londen, the Weft Indies and else
where as often as they can be had accurate and to
•be relied on. The rates of infuranee—the pric<
of (locks—course of exchange, ice. tic. Likewise
a regular account of entries, inward and outward
—with such marine and other intelligence as fliall
be thought ufeful and important—and the remain
der of the paper wilL he appropriated to advertise
ments.
The price to fubfcri6ei"s within the city and li
berties, to whom it will be delivered at their hou
ses, will be Four Dollars per annum—Two dollars
:at the expiration of a month from its publication,
and the remainder at the end of the year/ Sub
let ibcrs at a greater distance will ha»e it sent them
agreeable to their dire<slion»—to pay two dollars at
the time of lubfcribing, and the remaindtr at the
end of the year.
The publication (hall commence as soon as a fuf
ficient number have fubferibed to pay the expence
of conducing it.
jjs* • It is from the advice and to gratify the wifli
ef a number o! mercantile gentlemen that the
printer propefes publishing this Price Qnrrent in a
quarto size in pteference to any other. Audit is
proposed to embrace the Prices Current with fitch
bthcr matter as may be Diofl material to fend abroad
in the (irft two pages—appropriating the other two
to such matters as may be more immediately do
med ic, and to advertifertenti.
Subfcri-jtions are received by {aid Humphries, at
his Printing Office, No. 74, North Third-street,
and Mr. Z. Poulfon, jun. at his office inChcfnut
ftreet, and at the Philadelphia library.
Philadelphia, April 14. f;f
tfor Sale,
A CONVENIENT well built fccor.d hand Light
Waggon, hung cn Jack? with ghffvs and
blinds in the doors, with or without harness.
Enquire of Peer TJmcrickhotife, Arch, below
Sixth Itrccr, cr fuhfcriher in Gtrmantewo.
CASPAR IV. HAINES*
ap-.'l 1 *aaw3W
ap. .'1 a
Frelli Teas.
Jujl Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Cantori,
And For Sah y by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Compting House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,
AND BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At Hit Compting House, CvooVed billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, a(T»rted; biack and coloured Lute
firings and Sattim, Nankeens, Caoia, large garden
and core anon Vans, fattin and-luteftring.Umbrellas,
whale-bvnc flicks.
They have a!fo Far Salt,
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchiefs,
French Carabricks aud Umbrellas, Sugar ir boxes,
inarch 8. §
Now Opening,
AtWiLLiAMM'LAWsSaddleManufadlory,
No. 72, Chefnut Street,
A afiortment of Horseman's
Pirtols, dire«£l from the Manufacturers in London*
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartouch B. xes,. Va
lices, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harneft, &c.
April 9 drf
City Commissioner's Office,
January nth, J 798.
FOR THE INFORMATION OF THE CITJ7£H«.
THE following arrangement is made by the
said commiflioneis, for the
streets, icc.
Diftri.lt No. I. —From the north fide of Vint
street, to the foul h fide of Mulberry ltrectj t«
be under the fuperintendance of Nicholas Hicks.
a From the south fide of Mulbrry street, to
the south fide ef CUefnut ftrreet, to be under the
fuperintendance of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut fireet to
tl e north fide of Spruce street, to be under the
1 fuperintendance of Jol'eph Claypoo.'e.
4, From the Eorth fide of Spruce street, to the
foutn fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu
perintendance of Hugh Roberts.
When pumps are out of order south of
High-flrect, pleafc apply to Thomas Dixrv, at the
corner of South and FifthWlrerts, or Godfrey Gcb
ler. in Fourth, near Chefnut-ftrei t ; and north of
ftreet, to Dixcy am! Dchaven, in SatTafras
ftrtet, betweeo Sixth and Seventh Greets.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
March 30th. 1798.
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT by at) a*.l of Congrcfs passed oil the
19th day of March, 1798, the following
alterations and amendments have been made to
the a (ft palled on the 6th day of July 1797, en
titled "An ail laying duties 011 lUinped veU
" lum, parchment aßd paper."
The flamp duties on debentures or certifi
cate! for the drawback of Cuftom9 ®r duties on
Imparts are repealed.
11.
A discount at the rate of seven and one half
per Centum, will be allowed by the Supervifori
or Infpeilors refpeiJlively, to any persons other
than Officers of the Revenue, who may pur
chase atone time or procure to be stamped, any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment or Paper, upon
which the duties lhail amount to Ten Dol
lar* or upwards.
111.
Stamped Paper, will be provided and fold at
the rates prescribed by law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for flamped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional pr : ce will be demsnded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each (kin of Parch
mrnt, or Two Hundred Cents for each fkiiof
Vellum of medium Cze, which may be furnifk
ed at the expense of the United States and pro
portionally for any lefler quantity.
Given unJer my hand, at Philadelphia, the
day and'fir ulovemesUioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
Treasury Department,
March 19, 1795.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
' I 'HATpropolals will be received at th. Offic: of
X the Secretary of the Treasury until the evi
ration of the i?th day of July next enfuir.g, .or
the supply of all rations which may be required
for the use ps the United States, tromrhc fit™ Say 01
Oflober 1798, to the thirtieth day of Septer.iber
1799, both days inclusive, at tht-places anu within
the diflriit hereaftsr mentioned, viz. At Ofwego;
at Niagara; at Prefque tile ; at JVHchilimackirjc ;
at Fort Franklin ; atPittfburgh ; t.' Le Etbt; at
Cincinnati; at Greenville ;at Picque Tovn *:rd
Loramie's Store; at Fort Wayne; at Fort Defi
ance ; at any place below For: Defiance on the Mi
ami River to I.akc Erie ; at Fort Knox and C ia
tanon on the River Wabafh; at Maffac; at ri.y
place or places on theeaft fide of the River Miffi!"-
fippi above the mouth of the R.iver Ohio, and up
on the lllii.ois River ; at any place or places on the
eafl fide of the Mi IT: flip pi River below the mouth
of the River Ohio to the southern boundary of the
State of Kentucky, and within the said Stat* ; at
Knoxvillc, Tellico Block House, and at all other
Pods in the State of Tennessee ; at ap.y place or
places on the east fide of the River Miffilfippi, be
low the southern boundary of the State of f ennef
£ee, to the foutheril boundary of the United States.
If supplies lhall be required for any polls or
places not mentioned in this notice,all fuchfupplies
lhall be furnifhed at prices proportioned to those to
the polls before recited, as may be agreed on be
tween the United States and the contraClor.
The rations to be fapplied to consist of th» fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour
One pound of beef or twelve ounces of fork
or bacon
Half a jill of rum, brandy or whif-"}
ky, one quart of Salt, two quart# ( hu £ , rB(J
of vinegar, two pounds of soap, f rat j^, s
one pound of candles J
The ratioHsare to be furnilhed in fuchquantities,
as that there lhall at all times during the said term,
be fufficient for the conlumption of the trooffe at
MichiiiMackinac, Detroit, Niagara, and Ofwego,
lor the term of fix months in advance, and at each
of the other pofis, for the term of at least three
months in advance, in good and wholesome provi
sions, if the fame shall be required. It is t« be un
derilood, that the contra&or is to be at the ex
pence and rifle of iffsing the supplies to the troops
at each poll, and that all losses sustained by the de
predations of an enemy, or by means of the
troops of the United States, lhall he paid for at
the price of the articles captured or dcilroyed, on
the depositions of two of more persons of credita
ble characters, and the certificate of a commission
ed officer, ascertaining the circutvfiances of the
loss and the amount of the articles for whioh com
pensation shall be claimed.
The priviledge is reserved to the United States
of requiring that none of the supplies which may
be furnilhed under thepropofed contraS, shall be
ilTued, until the supplies whieh have or may be
furnilhed under the contrail now in forte have
been consumed.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
march ij. iawtisjy
To the Afflicted with
NERVOUS Disorders, loss of appetite, female
complaints, debilitated conflitutions, inward
weaknefTes, lownefs of spirits, seminal weaknesses,
indigestion, decayed, weak or relaxed conllirutioi.s,
pains in the limbs, poverty of blood, finking anx
ieties, and tremors, which so dreadfully affV& the
weak, the sedentary and the delicate, every symp
tom of extreme debility, attendant on the indiscre
tions of youth, the consequences of a dissipated
life ; excess of pleasure or grief, change of climate,
the immoderate use of tea, spirituous liquors, or
any intemperance ; disorders incident to young
girls and women at a certain period of life—
THE CELEBRATED
Cordial Restorative Balsam,
Is a medicine of absolutely fpecific and unparal
leled virtues, in the speedy and effe<Slual cure of the
above disorders, having flood a trial of many fuc
cefsful years, during which period many have been
restored from the brink of the grave.
Youth and age of either sex, are equally the ob
ie3s of this Rellorative, and they will uniformly
participate in its falubrions qualities and effeifts ;
for whether the fyflem has received a tliock, and is
debilitated, from imprudences or inattention in
the earlier part of life, or is finking under the ad
vance of years, a small quantity of this medicine
will give prefeut relief to, and afford a pleating
profpefl of icturniog health and flrength, by giv
ing tone to the muscular fyflem and organs of di
gestion, and in a great meature renovating the cos
fiitution.
Women at any period of life, may by this medi
cine be freed from the molt alßi&ing disorders in
cident to the fix, and at a certain period it is moll
highly u r «ful.
The Cordial Restorative Balsam ii fold genuine
(only) by the proprietor, Dr.JAMKS CHURCH,
at his medicine (lore, No 1, South Third hrett,
next Market-Sreet, Philadelphia ; where may be
hac an account of the virtues of this Reiterative
and a lift of cures. april3—aawjw
JUSJ fUBI-ISHED,
AND FOR SALE AT THIS OFFICE,
(Price 2$ Cents J
Reflections on Monroe's View
OF THE CONDUCT OP THE EXECOTIft.,
As published ia the
CAZBTTH of*!ie UNITED STATES,
Under the fignatuia of
SCIPIO,
In ii>b' b thr Commercial Warfare »f France is traced
to fit French Farilion in this Country, at lis Sonne,
and tbt r.li tivrr tj fdft.
march 30.
A House and Lot in Dover.
FOR SALE,
A LOT OF GROUND, fituateon thteaft fide
of the main ftrcct, running through the town
of Dover, in Kent county, in the State of Dela
ware, about thirty or forty yardt below Captain
Furbee's Tavern, containing in front on said flreet
thirty four feet, and extending in depth caftward
twelve perches, together with the building! there
on err&ed, which confifl of a good brick houi'e,
two flories high, well fihiOied, with two rooms a
bout seventeen or eighteen feet square each, and a
passage eight or ten feet wide on the firft floor ;
three rooms with a passage above, and good gar
rew, the cellars are excellent, one of which is used
an a kitchen ; a back brick building with two rooms
above and below about ten or twelve set by four
teen ; the *pper rooms of this building communi
cate above iUirs with the paffflge of ti c house :
A brick fraoke house, ar.ci a god pump of water
in the yard, and a garden adjoining.
The rioufe is in evrry re' , eft ao comfimabie as
any in Dover, in a good (ituation,
and new occup cd by J»hn Freeman, as a tavern,
with the sign of th< £;-^la.
The terms wiß ix r pfju'l".. Apply to Dan-.'
iel Mifflin, at Came ii >ver, ortothefab-.
fcriber, No 60, f'nri'i ,:rh l ; reet, Philadelphia.
CADW iLADER EVANS.
march 27. tus4«r
For Saic,
A good fituatioo for a Country Seat,'
Forty acres of Land,
On the Oid York road, within fight of Ger
mantotvu, end about five miles f om t!ie city;
the wi.olr being under good fence, and in ex
cellent crdei as pjfture ground.
F:V further information and terms, apply to
Jons Elliot- Ckssson, at his Oftiee for the
file of RealEftates, Conveyancing, &e. No. 54,
B.^h-ftreet.
4th mo. 3d. tn&ftit
For Sale,
A Farm and Country Seat,
SITUATED on the weft Ode of the Schuylkill op
poG'e to Norris-town. seventeen miles from Phi
ladelphia—the farm contains 195 ec es ot land, 50
of v.bich ate woodland, about 40 of msidow, arid
the rable land. The house and garden which is
la fe and well paled, stand in the mod ple&fant fitu
atioc, commanding a view of iho river, an ifhnd
w iich is oppolite. and the village ot Norris town—
Theie is a fliad fifhevy belonging to the place—En
quire in Philadelphia, No. 96, North Third Street,
or on the premises.
tawtf
Valuable Property For Sale.
FOR SAt.E,
well known Estate, called SHREWS-
X BURY FARM", formerly the residence of
General John Cadwalader, situate en Safiafrars Ri
ver, in Kent county, Maryland—containing a
howt 1900 acres of prime LAND, upwards of 500
of which are in woods. The BuildiHgs are all ex
cellent, and confiftof a handsome Dwelling House,
two large Barn* with Cow houses, Studies for fifty
hurfes, a spacious treading floor under confer, a
granary, two Overfeeds houses, two ran
ges of two story buildings for Negroes (one of
them new and of brick), Corn houses, a Smoak
house , &c. &c.—The whole Estate being nearly
surrounded by water, it requires but little fencing,
and has a good Shad and Herring filheiy. It is
conveniently situated for both the Philadelphia and
Baltimore markets, with two landings on p navi
gable river but a ftiort fail from Baltimore. There
is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
thepiemifas; also, a variety of excellent fruits of
different kinds. The foil is mostly a rich loom.—
The whole will b« fold together, or divided into*
smaller farms (for which the buildings areconven
iently situated) as, may suit the purchaser. The
Stock on said Farm, confining of Horses, Cattle,
Sheep, &c. will also be difpofad of.—For further
particulars apply to GgoROE Hastings, on the
premises, or to the fubferiber, in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, ju*.
February 14. law6w
Bafkenridge—for sale
IT consists of 920 acres, almost all of which it
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the late
Esrl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, Four of which ire bounded on the
East by the river Pafaiek.
Th :rc are on it a number of buildings, forming
a square of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
is a very convenient one.and,a small expence would
put it in tomplete repair".
The orchard confills of 15oa fintbearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—And there is on other pnrtsof said
trail near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
bed and molt delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
Forest Trees, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Itsfituation is abeut 18 miles,
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and H from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in cash, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEIJEN & Co.
No. 78, Chefnut treet.
February 2. eodtf
FOR SALE,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient floret, wharf, &e. situate on
Water flreet, between Mulberry atKl Saflafras
Streets* containing in front on Water flreet fif
ty-fear feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
have the convenier.ee of a publ'c alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and area very defirablefit
uation for a a merchant, flour factor, or others
who may have occasion for storage of goods.
Thu property will be fjid on very reasonable
terms for ra(h. For further information apply
te the printer.
auril 5 m'vwtf
Prison Manufadtoryi
FOR SALE,
At the Prison of the City and County of PhiladeL
phb,
Cut Nails of allfiscs, from sdy to aody
Flooring Brads, Spriggs faddte and card Taflts
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakers and Saslicr? Thread
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and hea i ttones, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms, slabs, facia, window heads fills, &c.'
All which may he had on reasonable terms,
- Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at
a modeiate price.
Orders from a diilance, dire&ed to Daniel Tka
ma*, agent for the prifon,lwill be attended to.
December 16- mth6m
For Sale,
'"P'HE timeofa NEGRO T>AD, who h»s »-
JL bout three years to fe:-ve—He is perfeitly
capable of and used to all kinds of house work ;
hat alio been accuftomcd to wait at table. A
purchaser re tiding m the country would be pr«-
ferred. Enquire of the Priettr.
April 11. eodjw
" 7 TO RENT, n
A good three story House,
TWO rooms on each door, with a convenient
! Kitcher—in Front, ne«r South-ftreet.-^—finquirt
| of the Printer. April ao—