Daily Advertiser;
Nvmjbex I 795.J
A Sloop for Sale,
VIRGINIA BUILT,
0 7& About two and an half years
.T&J olii—burthen 31 tons, fails fait.
an< * ** *<U foand.—Enquire of
Thomas & JoJbua Ft/her,
No. 5, Dock Street.
6 me. 7th siw
FOR SALE,
RICHMOND,
"M|UV JU3T arrived from the East-
Indies and lying at Latimer's
Live Oak and Cedar and in every fefpetft as
excellent a frame, as perhaps was ever put to
gether, copper bolted and sheathed. She is 80
feet keel 27 * feet beam, 12 feet hold, 6 feet be
tween decks and will carry 41400 barrels of
FW. For terms, applv to
Mordecai Lewis*
may 30 § zw
~ LANDING^
At Vyadmit Street Wharf; from on bo*rd the
brig Amiable Matilda. William
Mailer, from Rourdeanx,
Claret in hogflteads and in cases of
supkrio* QUALITY,
Brandy in Pipes,
FOR SALE.
Thomas iff J°^ n Kedand.
Said Brig for lale,
w ith two pair tour pound CAN-
V'"'^ NON, and one pair lilb. C«R-
V \ v IWm&roxABES,
may 29 §
FOR^R'EkTirOL,
Tas seif
&mkj li be rt r,
Isaac VniDENBrRGin, Mailer,
A good new Teffcl, fails well—
lying.»t >\ iicocKs' «Vharf, will fail about thcienrhof
next moittb, a coofiderabfe part of her Cargo being
engaged*—lor freight or p-fiigeapph to
JOHN SKY R IN,
No. 96, North Front Street.
>J. 3. Thr Li be rfy ii intended to re'uru oneof
lbs firiifall vefTclsto this port.
may 2g ftff
JUST ARRIVED,
In tie brigGayofe,cipt.Bmgham,fj , omSt.Martias
A quantity of SALT,
of an exccellent quality
A few groce Porter Bottles, new
u 'Aod twenty calks V:negar
Also, FOR SALE,
Enquire of
Jehu HoWtngfworth iif Co.
No. 22, Little Water ftraet, South,
april 20. * §__
The following Certificates
OF Funded Debt anw Bank of United States
Stock, were forwarded from England per
the Countef* of Leicafter Packet, iu the nth
month, 1797 which vessel has been captured,
and the Certificatesfuppofed tob* loft.
4000 dollars 4$ per ceut. Sxock, ttandii-g on the
booses of the Trcafury, in rhe name of Bir4 Savage
£nd Bird Certificate no 1&9, dated July 19th,'96.
Tcb Shares Stock of the Bank of Uvitrd States
in the name of Miller, Haft 5c Co. of London,
in one Certificate, No. 26067, dated the id day
•of Jan a try, 1707.
For the rsnewal.of which certificates, applica
tion is intended to be made at the Office of the
Trcafury of the United State*, and at the Bank of
United States ; of which ail persons interested
therein, are dedred to take notice.
JOHN WARDER.
Philadelphia, 5 me. 26, 1798.
2iw3m
Military Academy.
THE Public are most refpe&fully informed,
that a Military Academy is opened in thfc
Northern Liberties in the house formerly belong
ing to John Matters, esq. between the German
< Town and Frankfort roads, North Second
- street continued
Br JOHN BARBER,
Late of the 60th Britiih regiment of Foot *n<jl
afliftant Engineer te the Army a6lin g in ihp
Weft-Indies.
Where gentlemen will be taught the manual
Exeteife and made completely acquainted with
* all the duties of officers, non-commissioned or
• Jicers and priv*re soldiers in camp, garrison and
Quarters ; the forms of regimental and field re
. turns, detachments, rosters &e. &c. also the
act <«f drawing plans, feltionsand geometrical
elevations, thp elements of tactics, guyncry and
fortification. —A fubferiptiem lift is left at the
bar of the City-Tavern, where the terms and
the outlines of the propefed regulations may be
seen. The filiation is extremely well adapted
to the undertaking and eight acres of ground are
set apart for the purpose.
N. U. Gentlemen from th« Conntry boarded
ia the house if required.
miv ic\ drwaawim
FOR SAEE.
SEVERAL very elegant Situations for Sum
mer Retreats, three and a half miles from
the Court House, and on the Frankford Roid ;
":-the lots will be made to fu;t the purchasers.
These situations are considered in point of health
beauty and elegance, equal to anv near the city*
and the road known to be fafe and good at all
leal'ons of the year. The title indisputable—A
plan of .the grounds is in the hands of the sub
scriber, *ho will make known the terms on ap
plication to him at his office No. 124 South
Fourth Street.
ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER.
mav 2.
TO BE LET, T
, And Pojfejjicn given Immediately.
THAT well" known Kaad called, Small's
ti-/ern, sign of the Black korfe at the faft
end of Bedford. This ftacd is attended with
many advantages ; there are two houses,. the
onr stone and the other frame adjoining, each
•other,, well fimfhed and upon a very convenient
plan ; the itabling new and large and a pump at
the doer—be fides, there are but two taverns in
the town. The terms and time of leafing will
be made known by application to.
Dr. John Andafor.,
of tbe ttzu;i of Redfo-d
may 11. iam6w
r
By John Fenno, N O, 119 Chejiiut Street.
PHILADELPHIA: TUESDAY EVENING, JUNE 12, 1798
United States, 1 ~
Pcnnfylvania DiflriS.y
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT in pursuance of a Writ to me direfled.
from the Hon. Richard Peters, Esq. Judge of
the Di2ri& Court of the United States, in arwi for
the Pennsylvania Dillrid, will be exposed to pub
lic fa'.e at the Cu(lorn-Houfe, in the C : ty of Pnii
adejphia, on Friday, the 20th day of June, icft.
at 12 o'clock at noon
4 Bags of Coffee, and
5 Hampers of Porter.
The fame having been libJied apainft, profj
cuted and condemns J us forfeited in the said court.
IVilliam Nichols, Marftial.
Martial'* Office, )
June sth, '9B y srot
Collector's Office,
Philadelphia, May t", 1798*
FOR SALE AT PUBLIC AUCTION.
AT the Cuftem-Houfe, on Friday, the-fif
teenth of June, 1798, the fallowing mer
chandize, which remain in the Cultom-Houle
(lores more than nine months, unclaimed by the •
owners or consignees thereof r '
(XH) eight half faggots of steel
(TDJ 2C2 one bale K'irthweb
a quantity of ftc^l
one cafe lamps
C&C onecife bobbin
(W) one I'malt b< x medicine
AB 203 one matted cafe Dutch books
I&C one herrings
(W) cnefmall box of samples of buttons
TL)"! 1a 3 l^ree bales girthwsb
rvfl] 200 one ditto ditto
TN] 200 one ditto ditto
(No mark) eight jars olives
(ditto) one bundle dales
[LS3 one small box locks
TJohnDavidJ one small box of plated Ware
[Harry Toulmin] two cases of books.
may if 'titJ
By virtue of * dtcee of tnc fioao'aoie tne uijjn cuua
of Chancery of Marybnd, fubferiber will fe.l
at Public Sale, on the premies, on Mouiay, the
«s : h of Jure next am o'clock in rhe forenoon,
T 1 HAT valuable and well known Lot of Ground,
No. 53, aad pari of tyo. 54, property
of Nicholas S'.uby, merchant of this city, situated on
Thames-ilreet, in that part of .Baltimore ciiy, called*
Fells-Point : containing 58 square perthej, wilH all
the buildings and imp orements thereon. Theie are
erefted on this valuable property, several large and
commodious bri k Warehoulej, capable of contain
ing from 15 to ao,ceo barrels of flour, with a frame
(hed adjourning thereto, fufliciently capacious to
hold »000 bog#iead of Tobacco; in perfeft l«fety
from the weather. From this well known property
is extended into the deepeli water in thii harbor, an
extenfiveand well conitroded on the
water 600 feet and upwards, and capable of receiv
ing (hips of aay burthen at the lowest tides. From,
the many advantages this propeity is known to poi£e!s,
it is esteemed equal if 1 ot fupericr, in point of com
mercial benefit, to any in this city, and mull be a de>
suable ob eft to those inclined to purchase so valuable
an estate. It is unneceffcry to fay more on this fub
je&, as those intendiag to purcha e, will have an op
portunity of viewing the premise's ; previous to the
day of Tale
The terms on which the above property is fold,
are, that the purchaser (hall give approved negotiable
notes, with fecurty to the trurtee f »r the payment of
or.e half the purchase money with interest, within
three months, and the residue with interest, within
fix months from the day of sale.
SAMUEL MOALE.
mayaS. dt2sthje.
Dutch Cream, or Pate Graffe
CHEESE.
Imported in the ihip juno and Joseph from Am-,
fterdam.
r 1 'HE fubferiber, being applied to by fevera
X persons to fell the abovementicned Cheese in
small quantities, he now informs his fuendsand
theptibiicin general, that he will fell by thefingle
cheefc for the accommodation of private families
weight from 6 to I albs. each.
T. B. Freeman,
No. 40,fouthWat«r flrcet, or 39, south Froot street.
June 9. swat
Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries,
of the newest and most approved patterns, entitled
to the drawback, jail received,
AN) FOR SALT BV
Alex. j. Miller Of Co.
No. 64, Soath Front street.
may 18.
~ TorTTIF,
On board the (hip CLOTHLER, at Perot'a
V/harf
Excellent Cheshire, and ) ruvvw
- Double Gloucester \
n fine order— ALSO, a few Crates of
Queen's Ware,
Well aflbrted for FamiFes.
June 4 §1 w
HEALTH OFFICE^
Philadelphia, \JI .\fay. 1798.
Extra<st cf an a<3 to alter and amend the Health
Laws of this Commonwealth, pafied 4th April
1798.
Se*l 8- /K it further enaAed by the au
jLjL thority aiore!aid, That every.house.
keeper within the city ef Philadelphia, the town'
(hips of the. Northern Liberties and Moyaminfißg,
and dillrid of Southwark, within a mile of the li
mits of the city, taking in boarders arriving by sea
or by land, from any foreign port or place, artd ha
ving any boarder in his or her family, who shall be
taken sick of any disease whatsoever, between thi
fir ft day of May and the fir ft day of November in
any year, wirhin twenty days next after such boar
der {hall come to lodge in his or her houf..', fhail
within 24 hours next after the knowledge cf such
fickncfj. make report at the Health Office of the
name «f such sick person, the time of his or -her ar
rival at the house and cf his or her being taken sick,
and ef the name anyplace of abode of such houfe
keep r; whereupon the Phyficiae of the Health-
Offiie shall £or:hwith visit the and report
to the office his opinion of the nature of such dif
eaf«; that measures may be taken to prevent the
spreading of the infe&ion ; and if any housekeeper
shall negfe& to give information in the manner and
Vvtthin the time aforcfaid, and fhalibe thereof con
vi<Sed, in any court of cr.minal jurisdisftioa with in
this Commonwealth, upon indi&mei.t by vcrdid
or confefiion, he or she thall fcrteit and pay a fine
to the use of the said hospital, not less than twenty
dollars, nor mere than one hundred dollars, to be
imposed at the discretion cf thccourt, according to
thecircuniftances of greater or less aggravation at
tending each particular cafe.
By order of the Board of Hoa'th,
WM.ALLEM, Health Officer,
iaw3m of the Port of Philadtlvh'a.
c 0 N G R E s s -
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Monday, May 21.
Mr. Havens prefentcd an address from
Suffolk county, in the slate of New-York,
depri-acing war as the woiic of evils, and
praying that merchant's veflels may not be
permitted to arm,but that every means maybe
ofed for the prefervaiion of peace with the
French Republic. Referred as irfual.
?ylr. Skinner asked and obtained leave of
absence for three weeks.
The bill refpe&ing loan office certificates
and final fettletnent certificates, indents ofin
tereft» and the unfunded or regiftfcreu debt
credited on the books of the treasury, was
rea«Lthe third time and paflcd.
Mr. Varnum, from the committee on
poft-offices and post-roads, to whom was re*
committed a former report, reported a bill in
addition to theadt for eitablilhing poft-offices
and post-roads, which was committed for
Monday.
Mr. Bayard said, he had a refoluticn to
offer to the house, which he trusted would
meet with no opposition from any quarter. It
was intended solely to explain the grounds
upon which the house proceeded when they
refufed to consent that Mr. Pinckney should
receive the presents usually made by foreign
courts to ministers upon taking leave, and
which had been offered to him by the courts
of London and Madrid. He had pUrposely
avoided in the resolution, any exprefiion of
approbation of the conduct of Mr. Pinckney
during his millions, because he perfectly
knew that no approbation of that house could
add to the Iwgh sense the people of the United
Stares already entertained of the integrity and
talents of that gentleman ; and becanfe it did
not belong to the occasion, for the house to
exprels any opinion as to the conduct of the
gentleman during the time he was employed
abroad. That the design of thejcfolution he
had tofubmit, was simply to negative an an- i
plication that polllbly might be made, that as
the confiitution certainly did contefjiplate
cases in which ministers might be allowed to
receive prefects, that the house were induced
by reasons connected with the conduct of this
gentleman, to refufethe liberty to accept the
presents ; whereas he was perfectly fatisfieu,
from the declarations of gentlemen who op
posed the permiflton, who had all taken occa
sion to teftity much esteem for the character
and entire approbation of the condutt of Mr.
Pinckney wiiile iaoffice, that their opposition
arose from principlesofgeneral policy, which
led them to think that in no cafe should pre
sents be allowed so be received. Nay they
had said, that the purity of this gentleman's
character, and the importance of his services
furnifhed a happy opportunity of establishing
an invariable rule precluding the acceptance
of these presents, which no merit hereafter
should induce the house to depart from. The
subject, however, was of so delicate and ten
der a nature, that he conceived it a piece of
jtiftice on the part of the house, to state ex
plicitly the grounds upon which their deci
sion was made in order to preclude the polli
bility of any mi (take as to their motfves. He
should rely, therefore, with yerfeft confidence
that the following resolution would be una
nimously adopted :
♦' Resolved, that this bonfe, in refusing to al
low Thomas Pinckney, late minister at the court
of London, and envoy extraordinary to the court
.of Madrid, to receive the presents usually made
by the said courts to foreign ministers on taking
leave, <zuere induced to such refujal solely by mo
tives of general policy, and not by any vieiv
personal to the said Thomas Pinckney."
Mr. Grjswold moved the poftponment
of this resolution till to-morrow.
.The question on poftponment was put and
negatived 41 to 34.
The question on agreeing to the resolution
then returned.
Mr. Sew all had some doubts as to the
propriety o» the determination of tke general
question, as he believed by, that determina
tion, the house had parted with an advantage
placed in them by the conlbtution. He tho't
the best way of fettling tbis btifinefs would be
to re-consider that queftiou. He knew one
gentleman who had voted upon it thro* mi in
take, and there might be several others in the
fame situation.
The question on agreeing to the resolution
was put and carried unanimously. /
On motioa of Mr. Sewall, the house
went into a committee of the whole on the
bill fnppiementary to, and to amend the act to
establish an uniform rule of naturalization,
and to repeal the a£t heretofore paftedon that
subject.
Sewall movetj to.fill the blai^c(pacifying
the length of time neceflary foi an alien to
give notice of hi§..intentiou to become a citi
zen, before he can be admitted, with five
years.—Carried.
The blank the length of time ne
ceJl~ary for an alien to reside here before he can
be admitted a citizen, Mr. Sewall moved
to -fill with fourteen years.
Mr. M'Dowell hoped this blank would
not be filled with so long a time. The reli
dence now required from foreigners before
they can become citizens is five years. He
would not object to an increase of the length
of this term to seven years; or if the commit
tee rhought nine better, he would not object
to \l. He did not wish to discourage an emi
gration so this country of respectable. foreign
ers, by barring them from the rights of citi
zenfliip. The policy ofthi? country had al
ways been different, and he did not wish en
tirely to change it. When persons come here
from foreign countries, it was our he
laid, to attach them to us, and not always to
look upon them as aliens and Grangers.
The <|ue(Koß for filling the blank with 14
was put and carried 41 to 40.
Mr. Sewali. moved a clause providing
that no alien, who comes from a country at
war with us, fliaH be admitted to citizenship
whilst such war continues.—Agreed.
Mr* Gallatin wiihed to know whether
he provilions of this aCI are intended to ex
end to persons nho were in this country pre
vious to the parting of rhe law of January,
I ?9S» which requires a residence of five jears
before an alien can become a citizen, but who
have neglected to become,citizens, as well as
to all those aliens who have come to this
country since January, 1795, although they
may have made the declaration by that law
required, three years before they can become
so, ot their intention of becoming citizens of
the United States. The hw of Jan, 1795, had
made an exception in favor of all aliens then
in the country.
As the bill Hands at present, Mr. G. said,
it would have a rerrofpective eflfeCt on three
defcriptiens of persons, v;z. all these
who were in tiiis country prior to the adop
tion of the present constitution of the United
States and who were not naturalized under
the state laws before the atl of 1790 ; in
the next place it afteCts all those who under
the law of 1790 might have been naturalized,
and all those who, under the the law of 1795,
might hereafter be naturalized, provided they
have made the neceflary declaration of their
inten;ion of becoming citizens. From the
year 1795, Mr. G. laid, many persons, with a
view of making themselves citizens of this
country as soon as the law would allow them,
have renounced their allegiance to the coun
tries from whence they came, and if this bill
paires in its present form, they will for ten or
t.velve years to come be withoutcitizeufliip
in any Country. He hoped, therefore, some
exception would be made in favour ot the de
scriptions of persons which he had named.
✓One which led him to mention this
circumstance was, that there are a great num
ber of persons in the state ot' Pennfyivaiiia,
and many in thediftrict from whence he
who, though they are not citizens of the U1 i
ted States, really believe they are. This mis
take has arisen from, (an error common to
most of the diftricls of the United States) a
belief that an alien's being naturalized by the
laws of a state government/ since the act of
1790, made him a citizen of the United States.
The Mayer of thiscity till the year 1795,
admitted citizens under the state law, whoaf
terwards considered themselves as citizens of,
the United States. He (Mr. G.) always
thought that conftruttion to be wrong, Con
gress having the power to pass, and having
pasTed an uniform naturalization law, which,
:n his opinion excluded the idea of admifiion
to citizenship on ditferent terms, by the indi
vidual states. But he knew the contrary o
pinion, till lately, generally prevailed. In
deed he knew that at the late election in this
city, the votes of respeCtable merchants, who
had obtained American registers for their ves
sels, on a presumption of their being Citizens,
were refuted on this ground- The famemif
take had extended to other parts of the union.
It may be said, that since the year 1795, these
persons might have gone to any of the courts
and have become citizens. In this city, and
in others, he supposed persons had generally
done so ; but w here people are 2or 300 miles
diiiant from the distriCt court of the United
States, they had not always an opportunity of
doing it, especially on account of a construc
tion of the aCt of 1795, which had prevailed
in some counties of Pennsylvania, and which
made ;it doubtful whether any court in the
state, out of/he city could adminifterthe oath
ot citizenship. Mr. G. supposed that since
the year 1790, from 10 to 15,000 emigrants
had come int? the state of Pennsylvania, two
thirds of whom believed, till lately, that they
were citizens of the United States, from their
having been naturalized by the laws of that
state. It has now been discovered that they
are not citizens ; but since that discovery
was made/ they have not had an opportunity
of being admitted according to the law of the
United States. If some limitted period was
given to these perfont to come forward to be
naturalized, and they did not become citizens
in that time, he Ihould be willing to exclude
them. He thought, indeed, provision should
be made for all thele persons ; but he would
not move any amendment until he had heard
! the opinion of the committee on the subject.
The amendment just adopted, for excluding
alien enemies from citizenfirp, would do away
any objection which could be urged against a
provision of this kind. Indeed the persons
lie alluded to, generally came from the ter
ritories of .the king ot Great Britain, and three
fourths oGhetn from Ireland.
Mr. faid, this subject was before
the Select Committee, and it was the opinion
of a majority of that committee that no excep
tion ought to be made, but that the bill should
pass in its present torin. Hisown sentiments,
lie -said, were decidedly againlt any alteration.
As to the irifbmqn whom the gentleman from
Pennsylvania has mentioned, as they have
neglected to avail themfelvs of the privilege
of becoming citizens, he supposed they aid
not place any high value upon it. They are
now permitted to hold lands ; and from the
present t>i&racted shite of the country* from
whence they have emigrated, heaiid notihink
it would be prudent to make them eligible to
hold feats in the Government, after a resi
dence ot five years. He believed the
liberty which the United States have given in
thisrefpect heretofore has been unexampled,
and it was high time the evils which had ari
sen from this imprudent liberality, ihould be
remedied. The present difiracted state of
he world, and the attempts made to diflurt)
other governments, she wed the neceftity of
the pTopofed regulations. Mr. S. did not
confiderthe persons who bad been mentioned,
as labouring under any disadvantages. Con
sidering what they have left, and wUat they
receive here, their situation is vastly improv
ed by the chauge which they have made,
without giving them any chance of becdmirfg
Members of our Government, for they would
have ftad little chance of becoming members
of the government which they have left. He
did not /uppofe they came here with a view
of getting into the Government, but to ac
quire property, and to enjoy peace and hap
piness, aud this they might do, independent
of citizenship. Ashe saw no good, there
fore, to be derived to the country, froyi ad
mitting these persons to citizenship, but much
danger, he hoped the bill would be agreed
to as reported.
Mr. Gallatin said, if the bill was pro
ceeded with, he would prepare an amend
ment in favour of those classes of persons he
had mentioned.
The bill was accordingly proceeded with ;
and coming to the sth seCtion, where it. is
provided, that if an Alien shall continue to
refwie here, and shall refufe or neglect to
make a report of his residence, and receive a
certificate thereof, shall forfeit two dollars,
and shall be liable to be arrefled as a ftfpeeled
person,
Mr. Gallatin moved to strike out the
words printed in italic. It was fiitficient, he
said, that filch a person should pay a fine. It
was a new filing to punish a man by impri
sonment not for delinquency, but because he
was fufpetied. A conduct ot this kind had
been highly condemned in another country,
and he fu>*ted it would not be auoptec^here.
Mr. S'lWATti said, it was the intention of
! the committee: to fliew the nature of th e of
fence of omitting to make the proper report —■
to (hew that fitch omvffton vvgcld lay me ci-•
zens under the suspicion of not ailing open
ly and candidly.
Mr. Sitc reaves remarked, that if his
colleague's objection only went to the words
fufpcclcd per/on, Jlis motion went too far.
The queition was put and negatived 37 to
3 6 -
Mr. Gallatin then proposed an amend
ment to the following efTect, 4< provided
that any Alien who Was resident within the
limits, and under the jtirifdicHon of.the Uni
ted States be lore the 29th of January, 1795,
and any Alien who (hall have made a decla
ration ot hisiijtention of becoming a citizen
of .the United States, in conformity to the
provisions of an nil eftablilhing an uniform
rule of Naturalization palled on that day, may
to become citizens of the United
State*, according to the provisions of that
ad."
, Mr. Craik. was disposed to go much far
ther than is proposed by this bill in restrict
ing Aliens from becoming citizens of this
country. He {hould have no objection to fay,
i that no foreigner conunc into tins country af
| ter tiy.s time, lhail ever become a citizen;
I but he believed it this law was to have a re
| trofpective operation on all thole foreigners
| novf t'efiding v iihin the United States, who
have neglected _to become citizens, it would
be very unjulr. 'JT.er< was a large clafv of
persons, he laid, in the -country irotn which
lie came, who are not 11.1!uralized underlay
law, and many others who.had been natura T
•i zed tinder the State law ; about the legality
of which, as had been {fatal, there is.mucu
doubt, though in Maryland and Virginia,
foreigners are (till naturalized by the States,
notwithuanding the law of the United States.
In deciding upon this queftioi*, Mr. C.
said, it would not be proper to take inty con
sideration emigrants from any particular coun
try. Many of the perlons he ailuded to, are
Germans, and well entitled to every privi
lege that can be given them, a.id whose neg
lect to become citizens was probably owing *
to the'u - ignorance of our language and laws.
He (hould, therefore, be in lav our of this a
mendment, efpeciaUy as saras ittefpects't I}ofe
Aliens who were in this -country before the
year 1795. .
Mr. Bayard said, though foreigners were
prevented from becoming citizens of the U
nited States, until they have reiided 14. years
in the country, in many of the ttates, they
are entitled not only to vole for filling
of the State Governments, but also for filling
those of the United States. Therefore, the
only privilege which they are denied, :s the
capacity of becoming Members of the Fede
ral Government, which was a denial, he
thought recommended by found policy. And
he did not fee why the reltriction fliouli not
extend as well to the Aliens now within
the United States, as those who (hall hereaf
ter come here. It aliens residing here had a
ny right to expect an exception, it mull be
on the ground of compact. He did not, how
ever, consider Naturalization Laws in that
light. Aliens cannot be considered as mem
bers of thefocietyof the United Stales ; our
laws are pa(Ted on the ground of our own po
licy, and whatever is granted to Aliens is a
mere matter of favour, and if it is taken
away, they have no right to complain. Every
principle of policy in his opinion, required
this regulation to be inade general ; for he
believed there were as many Jacobins and
Vagabonds come into the United States du
ring the last two years, as may come for ten .
years hence ; fothat these very perlons agunft
whom this law was intended to operate, vt ill
become citizens, and may be chofea into
the Government. He hoped, therefore, the
amendment would not be adopted.
With refpe£t to those persons who have gi
ven notice 0/ their intention of renouncing
their allegiance to the foreign country from
whence they came (for they do not actually
renounce it until they become citizens) it can
make no difference to thorn, clpeciaiiy those
referred to by the gentleman from Pcninfyl
vania, because it is a principle of the Brkiflt
Law, that Britiih (objects have not a right to
alienate thenifelves —they cannot renouoce
their Allegiance to the Brituh K.iu£. No ob
jection, therefore, could lit; agalnii the mea
lurcs being general on t.'uit ground.
Mr. Macon was aj>prehe»five that gen
tlemen in their zeal to get at particular per
sons, will go too far in this business. He agreed
with them, that for three or four years part,
people of all forts of pulit .es had come to tb*s
country, from tlie lugheft driflocrat to the
greateir Jacobin ; and he doubted not that per
lons who were -very deiirous of becoming ci
tizens, or who had any particular end to an
swer by it, had already availed theuitelves of
the law. But there are pcrlonf indi&ant parts
of the continent, \\ ho have never yet become
citizens, perhaps from their not being in- the
way of going through the ceremony, and be
cause he had no apprehension cf the privilege
b 'ing taken from them. Many had alio omit
ted to do it from an ignorance of our ianguage-
He hoped, therefore, this amendment would,
be agreed to. If perlons have given notice of
their intention to become citizens, they have
complied in part with the laws; and he did
not think it would be r.ght to put it out of
their power to comply with the other part.
Mr. Sew all fai .this amendment would
comprehend those Alrens v, ho have come here
11 nee the year 1795, though they may have
made no declaration of their intention to
become citizens, as they may make the deco
ration la v patfcs. As to the other
description. of persons, he had the laaie
objection to them. He agreed with the gen
tleman troki Delaware, .that o*:r regulations
in this respect, are made for our ov\:i # conve
nience and farcty, and that no Alien has a
right 10 complain, t these regulations iliould
disappoint his expectations.
Mr. Sitcreaves said. this was either a
qneftion of right, or cxped oncy. He presu
med no gentleman was prepared t6 f*v any
Alien had acquired an abfotiKe and positive
right in this country, to cinzenfbip at any par
ticular time. If not, it was a mere matter of
expediency ; and v.hen :t is ccnlidered
in this light, there can fee litfTe diifieul
tv in feeing the dangers and disadvanta
ges which would a rife frain allowing foreign
ers to become citizensas heretofore, or as pro
posed by the prilent amendment. They are
too evident to be enumerated".
But it vvasfuppcicd that there arc a
hnmberof individuuH *»h fh'?s couutrv, enjtu-
I led to cit'zer.tliip by the. law of 17^0,but
I have ncverr' defs neglected to become ciu-
he intention of
*
\} r OL'JME XIII.• Tt w'as a little extrao"diflary, he laid,
. if this were so, tlwt perlons Ihould tor so long
. a time have negleited ta embrace a right,
which'it is now woi>W b«<fttii»g
them great injury to depri'®t thetjt of! As to
ihofe persons who Came into the Country (ince
the law of 1795, he saw no good realon for
making an exceptien in their favour. As Po
licy, Safety and Security dirtated the measure,
he hoped the bill would be paired us reported.
Mr. W. Claiborxe said he could not
reconcile it to his feelings to vote far the bill
without the amendment propoled by the gen
tleman from Pennsylvania, beca ife it would
be doing a number of people whom he repre
sented, the gfeateft injustice. Those people,
hefa ; d, were peculiarly lituated. It was only
at the lall winter feflton that the State of Ten
helTee was reiirelented on this floor j and at the'
tune of palling the Naturalization Law the
people of that country were not in a situation
to receive information x>f what was done in
Congress It need not be a rnattcrot fufprize
therefore, if in th.it frontier country, there are
many persons, not take advan
tageof the law of 1790. There afe numbers of
such who have giv«n the ffrortgeft proofs of
attachment to the
and bled ofthe United State.s,
»nd are as much wedded to the Government
of the United States as any men born on Ame
rican foil. If this amendment does not pre
vail, it will afi'eiSt many valuable citizens of
the llate of Tettnelfee, .who wefe citizens in
the year 1795, and ten years before ,tl*t time.
These persons would be deprived of rights,
because they were living in a country to whicli
there was no polt road, and where of course
they had no Newspapers to give them infor
mation of what was going on as the feat of
Government: He hopfcd therefore it would .
(lot be agreed to.
Mr. j. hoped this provision '
wonfd.be agreed to; When an ait is palled
good reason, he said, ought to be given be ore 1
any change fakes place. Many persons had I
tome into the country from an expectation of f
being naturalized at the end of a certain peri- t
bd 1 but, if this provilion isnot agreed to, the c
system will be entirely changed. He fa"/ no L
difficulty which could arite from agreeing to c
this provilion, as persons from countries at a
war with this cauntry, could not be made citi- 0
lens at all. Heknewa number of persons who I p
bad not taken advantage of the NatUralizati- ii
on law, who perhaps are as good men as any v
is the United States. It was true, he said, c
that by thclawsofthe fevcral (fates Aliens are
allowed to hold land ; but wlrn foreigners w
come here torefide, and behave well, he did ti
hot fee why tlwy ought to be prevented 11
from becoming citizens. They contribute
* their Hi are of the cxpcnces of Government, a;
anditwasanarknowledged principle tiiat Re- tl
presentation ;tnd Taxation ought to go toge
ther, which would not be the cafe, if the bill ii
was palled, without this amendment. fc
The queflion was put and carried, there ti
being 52 votes for it. ni
The committee then rose, and the house i t
proceeded to take up the amendments. f\:
The amendment of Mr. Ga llatjn com- pi
ing again under CMilideration,
Mr. Coit hoped that part of the clatife al
would be disagreed to, which embraces per
sons who were in this country before the year tii
179,5, but who had never (hewn anydifpofi- w
tiuu to become citizens. Those who came w
since, and had given notice of their intentions
01 becoming citizens, Hand on very different w
ground. He should have 110 objection to the bi
luttcr being accepted in the way proposed, fli
but not the former. a s
After a few oblervations on this amendment th
it was negatived 49 to 31.
Mr. Sjtcrkavcs proposed an amend- pr
ment, limitting the time within which aliens nit
included in Mr. Gallatin's proposition, should tin
be permitted Wavail themfeives of the ex- (in
teption in their favour, viz. those who were ful
in this cou try before the year 1795, within we
e>ne year after the palling of this ail ; and tiv
those who have come here since, and given 35
notice of their intention to become citizens, tin
within four years from the time of such no- ]
ticc having been given. nle
ihe quelfion vvas firft put on the former poi
part of tile amendment.
Mr. T. Ct.AiBORKE did not wish to pu- (ao
nifh men for not being born here, but to pu- - °
nifh both natives and foreigners when guilty. 1
He hoped two yea.-s would be allowed, inffead !
of one. Sta
• The question oh two years, was pnt and ne- ing
gatived 31 to 39. It was then put on one, and it «
carried, 57 votes being forit.
The qtK.fion on the second part of the
amendment was then put. nle!
Mr. Varncm (aid, the impulfeof the mo- - t^el
,m«tit led members to believe that these re- °co
ftri6fmns upon foreigners were necedary. He di fc
thought there was no neceflity for any mea- fort
fures being taken with rfefpeft to foreigners, f erv
e.tcept such as belong to the nation with r
■vhom wc expert to be at war ; yet he had no '° re
• particular objecfion to reftriCfions being made ° e a
with refpett to such foreigners as (hall here. "
sfter come to thiscountry ; but, having here- sent
tofore held out inducements to foreigners to raise
tome to this country, and when they are ccrv
come; with an expectation of becoming enti
tUd tti the rights of citizens in a cfcrfain time, r° m
he would not disappoint those expectations. " v ?
Mr. T. C i.a IBoßtrr. said this was a very
important bill, and he should wifli a little and
more time to conlider of it; he therefore the j
mbved an adjournment. Stati
The motion was put and negatived, bein"
Only jj votes for it. "
Mr.Sitcreaves said, theobfervationsof **s
the gentleman from Malfachufetts could only
te applicable when the principle of the bill
was under conlideration ; whereas the pre
sent proposition only went to limit the period
withip which advanrage flionld be taken of A
the indulgence proposed to be allowed. canti
Mr. Varnum moved adivifion of the a- f avs
Jnendment, and proposed to allow till the ill
®f September next, for persons to make a de
claration of theirimetition to become citizens. . r .
This motion was not seconded ; and the i s ft''
Question on the amendment was put and car- recei
'i*d 47" to 31. theft.
The bill was then ordered so be read a «<
third lime to-morrow. Adjourned. p e3c
TKespav, May 12.
TJJB bifl to effablifh an uniform rule of }
naturalization, and to repeal the former aCt f
for that <*as read the third time and ,™ r
pafled. v d'fgr
Mr HarPeh said, he had had handed to Eltre
hirn, in the absence of his colleague Mr. been
PINCRNEY, an address from the citizens of -caffiti
Charfefton, apprtJbating tlie conduct of the out c
Kxecutive in its negnciation witli France, • ,
*nd exprefling their determination to ftipport Wlth i
suture.measures of Government, which he
was requefled to lay before the house. He daily
accordingly presented it, meaft
Mr. Dc»t presented an addrc/s to the fame forwa
effeCl, from Calvert Comity, Maryland. COV . T
Mr. Matthews prcftmed a finiilarad- •
dress from Kent County, in the fame (fate, Mme '
The Speaker laid before the houfeaddtef- cannc
fes from the towns of Kingwood and Maiden- A rc
bead, in to the fame effect , well r
raid, *.fr. Ct.oPTOy presented certain refoluti
long ons. from H.-tirico, in Virginia, expredive of
iglit, their ilifjppr barton of any measures which
lotug. may lead U> war, and of their reliance on the
*\s-to miliii.i aa the only natural guardians of the
fine- people.
n for ' Mr. Dawso* rrefented an adjrefs from
y .ilxJut 500 inhabitants of Orange County,
lure, Virginia, to the lame effect,
rreil. *l he above add re lies, 6cc. were referred as
not ufiial.
~ biM Mr - S U"'l VES laid four refulutions up
gen- 011 the table (w hith have already been publiln
ould el) tor infiructmg the commanders of our
'pre- public and private vc-H'eis ; tfce-firtt author:!-
jpie, ing commanders of private armed vetfeU to
only take or destroy any cruizors* of the French
fen- Republic, which (hall attack them on the high
it the (eas tor the purpofeofr search or seizure ; the
' .'he second authorizing the commanders of the
ition public armed vellVls to take or destroy any
le in eruizers t tht* 1 rencKßepublic, which may
>rize be found attacking, on the high seas, any
eare public or private veflel of the United States
van- tor the purpose of search or seizure ; the third
rs of authorizing the commanders of the public
fs of and private armed vell'els of the Unued States
ight to retake any vclfel of the United States
ites, which may have been captured by die emi
nent aersofthe French Republic, and to take or
me- dettroy any cruizer which may have made
pre- such capture ; and the fbirrtti authorizing the
s of public armed vefTels of the United Stares to
s in take or destroy all armed cruizers of the
me. French Republic, which may be found on
hts, the coast of the United States within
iich of the (hore.
iirfe Mr. Sitsreaves moved these resolutions
tor- to be referred to the committee for the nro
tof tedion of commerce and'the defence of the
>uld country, to report by bill or othei wife. '
Mr. McDowell hoped these resolutions
Hon would lie upon the? tabic till to-morrow.—
tfed He owned he was not ready to instruCt the
ore conimittec named to bring in a bill on this
lad fubjeCh He believed these refoluhons arc
lef fynonimous with a declaration of war; and
;n- notwithdanding the present critical (ituation
the tff the oouniry, he had yet some hopes of war
no being averted', if prudent measures were a
to dopfed. He was not willing, therefore, to ,
;at alarm the public mind by referring resolutions
iti- of to dangerous a nature as these. It was
ho poflible, he said, that we might.soon receive
ti- information from our Commillioners, which 1
my would make a (fep like this proper ; but he •
id, could not think it would be proper at present. I
are Mr. Venable enquired of the Speaker ]
ers whether, when a member requefied arefolu
lid tion of this kind to lie upon the table, it was
ed notto lie, accord ing-to the rules of the house. '
ite Tlve Spe aker unfwered in the affirmative, 11
it, and the resolutions were ordered to lie upon 1
e- the table. ;1
e- Mr. Bayard made a motion for suspend- ti
ill ing the operation of the naturalization bill r
lor a limited tune. He thought the present
re tune was not a proper period for making per-, f
manent regulations On the fubjeft, and that "
ife i t would be better to suspend the present law «
for a time, than pass any new law upon it at v
n- present, as there was danger, under our p;e- tl
? n t feelings, that the relirictions againfl (-
le aliens might be carried too far. f
r- The Speaker said, he conceived this mo- '
ar tion cotiM not be in order whilst the bill "
i- which had palled this morning on this fubjedl l
ie was on its-paflage. u
lIS On motion of Mr. Harrison, the house 11
it went into a committee of the whole on the h;
le bill for regulating the compeiifation of mar- ■
J, (hals, attorneys, jurors and witnefles ; and .•
after (ome difenffion, the committee rpfe, and
it the house took up the bill; whin w
Mr. Lvbn moved to (Irike out the salaries ag
I- propo/'ed to be allowed to marfhals'and'attor- he
IS nies, to the former of 300 dollars a year, to f 0
d the latter 400 dollars, exclulive Of the fees a- r
ling from t heir office, which he thought quite "
e fulficient without any salary. Both°motions on
n were taken by yeas and nays, and were ne°"a-
d tived ; the firlt 4J to 27 j the second 45 to Ihi
n 35. The bill was ordered to be read a third vv<
■, time to-morrow, [ la
Mr. Sew all, fromthe committee of com- m ,
merce and pruteilion, made the following re- 1
1' port : bai
" rhSt In their opinion impor'ant advan- P fl
* tages would be obtained, by an arrangement
in one corps, of the marines who are, or av
1 '"gage lin the service of the United ' ca
States, and by annexing them to the exill- no
• ing mili'arv ellablilhment ; particularly, a, tha
lit w ( ould afford the mean< of order and eco- t ' le
nomy, in which a number of minute <letach
mentß are liable 10 be very deficient ; and as or
thereby, he detachments, which will be on '
ocoafionally on (hore. will be kept in proper a "
discipline, and may be rendered ufeful in the
fortifications, or clfewhere, as the public not
service may require—The Committee there a "
fore recommend the following resolution to
be adopted: tem
" RrfolvtJ, That in addition to the pre- was
Cent militSry eftablilhment, there (hall be ant
raised a battalion, to be called the marine
corps, to confid of a mnjor, and suitable "f
commifliojjed and non enmmiflioned officers, accl
five hundred privates, and the necessary mu K°' r
ficians, inclu ing the marines row in service : P alri
and the marine's, which (hall be employed in
the armt d vcfl'els and gallies of the United T
States, (hall bedetachments from this corps." ,
(To be continued) 21] d ;
n 1 ess
*~i • 1 11 * man<
I'oreign Intelligence. Fore
T
LONDON, March 29. nels
A private letter from Madrid to a mer- a fur
cantile house in this city, dated March 5, The'
fays— ' A '
"General Prrignon, ci-devant ambaffa- to be
dor from the French republic to our court, said t
is still here ; but it is asserted that he has j'or C
received orders to depart in a manth at far- to ha
theft.
*• H. Alverez, uncle to the Prince of Ti
Peace, and deputy governor for the prince govei
of Aufturis, has, by means of the system of of El
intrigue which reigns here at present in full Tl
a&ivity, been dismissed from that place of no
favor. But as some consolation for hi« govei
disgrace, he is appointed captain general of Tl
Ellreinadura, thought the appointment had (
been previoudy conferred on general Her- Thor
caflitas. The latter, whp was about to set elc
out for his command, has been indemnified pie
with a feat in tHe fuprcme council of War, Di
" The neceflities of the government are 1),
daily encreafiug, a::el no great financial H;
measures to supply them, arc yet brought Tl
forward. Among the palialives which the Jul
Roveri ment is obliged toemploy in the mean esq.
lime, it has lecured to an expedient which Ne
cannot fail to aftejniffi the rets of Europe. efq
A royal schedule, in which penury pretty lnfi
well maintains the tone of d/gnity. has been W
p lllt| - addriffed to aH the Ai jibulirps, Billiops,
*'^' 3 ' >e 3> &c. of the kingdom, invit in j- tl e 11
hi the to rem ' t to t ' le Royat Treasury.'all the gold
t" the a ' d " ver at , h e ''" disposal, without even
sparing the church plate, nny farther than
from may be ffr c»ly ntctfT.irv for the pitrpofes of
unty, worfliip. This is mrant as a kind of Loan
-eel as from the clergy; for f curing the repayment
of which he give 9 them in pKdge that
s np- branch of the revenue known by the name
blifh- of Efculadl), arising from a right long en
t our joyed by the Kings of Spain, of taking for
° r z their own life the bed Tirthe of everv Pa
"inch ri/h '
fngl, " Neccflity has, on the prcfent occasion,
; the u perfed«d every scruple ; but we now be
f the S' nt o be 'Oo wtll enlightened to take offence
any at fueh fpoliatiors, as tins has rtot been the
may firft attempt of our government in rhe fame
any way."
tates
iblic LONDON, April 9.
tates
tates NAVAL INTELLIGENCE,
rm " Lvfs of the Pallas Frigate.
fade The following are further particu'ars of
! ihe t,le loss of m 3 n»fp the Pallas, of
sto 3 2 guns,the hn. captain Curaon, which
the was ann ttneed in our M :
lon The Pallas arrived in Plymouth Sound on
Fuefday morning, from a cruize off the
ions or rance - Soori after the (lie had an
,r(".S choreel, a heavy gale of win J come on from
the , ' le ® h y W attended with a mod tre«nen
d HIS sea, wh ch continued with tncreafing :
ionS violenee until about seven o'clock on Wed
nesday morning, when (lie parted from one
this ~f l,cr ancW .and drove much nearer to
arc " 10rc l)e '' c ' re her ot!,<;r anchors, could
and bring her up. The yards. a* d topmast, were
tion then ftrHck, and (he rode with an apparent
war degree of fafety until half pad eight, when !
a- (lie again began to drive. The crew now |
ons C " tV,Way a " er ma "'> prevent her hol
*"8 much wind ; but, no witliftanding <
: ;v e a " f^e ' r exertirns, (lie did not bring lip ' '
lich though with three ar cbors a-head,until the j j
he aftrr part struck on the rocks in the Bay, i
■lit. between Withy Hedge and Mount Batten ! f
ker Point. The tide, by thi time, was at flrong 1 J
vas
|fe to the sea, being kept in that fitiiarion by ! P
ve, meaHS of her cables and anchors until a quar- j "
ion tcr pal three o'clock the sea making a free „
and tremendous break over her. Though
id- now quite aground abaft, the her
forepart forruch, that fthe cables parted, 7
» r _, 3n d the furf, keaving her broadside round
cat a ff :, indher with so much r ury, that (lie
aw was every minute completely hid from the *
at view pfjl e fpeaators.—Whilft (he lay in •
■c- this situation, every hope of the crew being
' faVfd seemed at an end fbn' providentially, n,
0 _ f r °m the cireumftance of her drawing less
HI water forward then abaft, every fucceeaing ' f
:it f ur ' forced her bow round nearer to the land Jt
until (he got again nearly end on with her >n
ifc (tern to the sea. The hope of the (hip hoi- nr
lie ding together, and the piofpea of a chance
,d ' hat the crew mi lit be able to save their ha
lc ( lives, were now revived,efpecially as the tide fu
wastfibing very fad. The (hip hfei-g qnite n '
es agrohnd, fore and aft, (he was thus made to
r- heel towards the (hore ; and by the latter pr
;o fortunatecircumflance, thecrwwerefhrltered ou
!e from f hc violent beat of the sea, and exposed
ls only to the spray, which every minute for- pu
med a cloud over them. In this (late the "g
o (hip till eleven o'clock, when tlie crew t!J '
d were ant of danger, and by noon the tide
had left her so as to enable the officers and anr
■ men to get ashore with fafety. The gale a- twi
bated about one ; and the crew, with the ° h u '
. pfop'e from the deck yard,began to get out h„,
t the (tores the greater part of which will be 1
r saved. A more melancholy scene, for at vis)
j lead two hqurs, could r.ot be wilnelTed. as
. no other profpe£t appeared dur ng that time
s thai the loss of the whole crew, because, in er F
. their then situation. no affiitance could po- oufl
given to them, cither on the land °hat
s or sea ltde. On board the Pallas, one man (rm
only loft his life, and he was killed by the
fall of the main mad. The (hip was redu- ,n( *
. ced to such a date of wreck, that (he could di"
not be got off, and it wasexpe&ed (he would
fall to pieces the next flood tide.
A boat belonging to the Canada, fn at
tempting to go to he relief of the Pa'las,
was upset, and Mr. Maffey, afting lieuten-
ant of the Canada, and three seamen, were 4
unfortunately drowned. '■
The Pallas frigate, when (he met with the 0 „
accident which occasioned her dedruftion,
going into Hamqaze, to be docked and re- of a
paired. She was built in the year 1794, acce !
and was as fin# a (hip as any in the navy <he 8
The king has been pleased to conditut e
and appoiat Field Marlhal his Royal High tvS r
1 ess Fredwk k Duke of York tobe com- been
mander in chief of all his majedy's Land whic
Forces in the kingdom of Great Britain. a " d '
The MarquisCornwallis, attend by Colo.
nels Twifs, M'Leod, Pari(h. &c. are m .king tio na
a fumy of the fortifications on the coad- Ami
They arrived at Dover on Thursday night. reni ' <
A very confiderableenchampment is about wobl
to be formed in Windsor Fored, where it is
("aid the King', (landard will be hoided M.v rher
j'or General Harcourt is the Officer who is necef
to have the honour of the command there. be ilr
in a
Tuesday last came on the clts[oo of a
governor and deputy governor qf the Bank deftre
of England for the
Thomas Raiker, cfqTwas chosen govcr- hazar
nor, 8c Samuel Thoroton, efq deputy tr y' n
governe . ; ho^° h r
The following gentleman have been cho
sen direftors tor the fame period Tl
Thomas Amyand, esq. Samuel Bofanquet at a ,
e(q. Roger Boeham, esq. Alex. Cham- bitan
pion. efq, Bicknell Coney, efq Edward .'-tatt
J_>°rell, elq. 1 h imas l)ea, tfq George 0 f
Dorrien, tlq. Daniel Giles, ef. Jeremiah Ton
Harman, elq. Thomas Langley, esq.
Thdman Ltwis, esq. Beedon Long, rfq. Ai
Job Matthew, efq Ebenez.r Maitland of ot
elq. William Mellifli, esq. Sir Richard silent
Neave, ban. John Paget, fq. James Reed the a
efq Edward Simoen, esq. Peter I. The!, own
In (Ton efq Godfrey Thornton ejq. John • pe£tf
V\* hitcmorc esq. Benjamin W inthrop esq. i govei
%i)t dsa3ette.
ever.
than p h i l a d n r. p h i a ,
} 3 of TUESDAY EVENING, 7™* 12.
Loan ,y
nieni
that * mfcHno of the nfR rr* of the of ci
tv end county of Xew-York and county of Rich
nam v rriond. on rhe nih i»• ft.
r , en " Biigad'er general Hughfs in the chair,
g" for Tlic general having (tated thit the meeting of the
p a _ officer* had hr*n ej'ieti fnr <he pii'pcfc of exnreffing
in common with the reft of their follow citizens,
their frntiment*, at this important period of our pub*
ifjon, lie affairs and after feme further observations bv some
/ be-
r ence would he appVip-ed so d'sft a set of ref<>'«-
t fforw, 'o he propofrd for the concurrence of iheoffi
l the c «. rs aflWnhled. The following gentlemen were ap
fame pointed
THE # rOMMITTE^
Col V!ort<»n. "f the 3d regiment,
Col. S:edd«ford. of the if*.
Co! SwaMwout, of he 5 h,
Col. Decker, and > Of the Rof »h- county
Major P-ri »e, . £ of Richmond.
M. jor Fifli of '.he sth,
Cap'. A r d nof th* ill
rs of The c having retired for some time, re
of turned wi-h the following rtfoluticns, which were
hlch *B 4ecc^to>
I The officers of the Brigade of the city county
J of NTtfw-Ynrk and county of Richmo. d having tak
-1 on en into confine ration the polition of our public af-.
the '"' rs w ' f>l r^*P p &*o the republic of France, and con
ceiving it the duty of every go d c tizen, at fh i*
, clp " time, so pivr en?»gy to our government, l>v afluran
rom cesof an uv.fhiken confidence in their wtldom and
en- patriotism, and a zeal and readiness to support
' them in every measure they ni y devise for the pub
r P lie good.
Ke'olvrd, therefore, in our opinion, theconduft
one of the executive of the Uuited St«cei, in the lae ne
to gociation with France, was marked by a fin cere dc
11 fire ( to piefervr the peace and friendship which; had
formerly fuhfilhd between the two countries, and
'Cre that evtry meafuie was pursued by him for tl at pur
ent pose, confident with the duties he owrd to the honor
ben i n£ kP er, dpnce of hit c«untry, and that therefore
! he is entitled to the warmest acknowledgments and
the fulleH c*nfidep>e of the citizens of these ftaies.
\Oi- Refolve<l alio, that fatisfied.with the conduft of
ing government,.W&wiil at every-hazard support them ;
iin such firm and energetic me;(ures they shall de
* , vifr for the miinieoance of the honor, ficedom, and •
1 independence of cur e >untrv- *
a.y, Refolvcd, thar a commiree be appoin-ed to pre. ;
tetl ! P are 3fta cd»els to the Prefidcnt of (he United States,
j expftiflve ot the (entiinents contained /a the forego- .
1 £> , ing lel'o'utions.
rad j It moved thit ilie fame committee p-e- '
by J pare thcaddrefi, which being agreed to, the com
ar- ' m ' Uc e p<odu' cd the following aadrefs, which wh
j adopted and agreed to be forwarded t-o the PrefidfiU *
rce of the United States, undrr the fi?nature of the brig- t
jh adter general. c
»er f
■d, To h* txcdlcncv JOH N AD A MS, PrrJiJcr.tof the Unit
"d ' **"""• c
. sir ,
"C AMIDST the numerous testimonials of per son-
he AL refj.»&, and of attachment to the government a
in w h'ch you are daily receiving from every part of the
Union, we prefumcd that an expreflion of similar
& sentiments from the officers of this brigade, would
y, oot be unacceptable to you. V
rfg Attached to oui country by every tie of nature and f<
■jjj affeftion, and to our coniliturion and government— _
o from the found ift dtdlates rf our judgment and un
derlUnding, we have ever considered the happiness Cl
er and rßOsPißixv of the former, as mlirparably con- tl
,J- netted with the honor and independence of the Z(
"e latfcr *. therefore, we have, with pleasure,
. beheld ou« government, during the late war, which S
tr has convulfcd and defo'ated the European world, pur- P'
ic suing with uprightness and integrity that fyltem of tl
te ! lt ' u,ra:i, V» which could alone sec ureto us the r
ings of p.-ace, it with the highest indignation
0 we observed the republic ot France, under various
?r pretences, obflruaing that peaceful system. refuhng us
•cl our ncurri »l 'ighis, aflailingour very independence as a
, nation—Confiding in your well known pa'riotifm and
abilirijs, vc truiled that such mecfures would be
r- puilurd ai would reftorc to our country its violated
iC r »gbt«, or leave its enemies without an excuse: nor
y has this hope been diftppointeri. The in ft; uftions to
our envoys at that republic, have (hewn to us, and
« will evince to the world, that to pieferve the peace, '
d and to rcltore the friendfhip that once subsisted br
twecn the two republics, everything, on the part of
C °" r has been attempted, confident with
those faced duties which we owe to our rights and
' honor, as a free and independent, peonle.l •
e Impretfrd with thcrfe sentiments, and v\ ith this con-
viftion, we have thought it our duty at this eventful
moment, when rhe independence of our country has n
been menaced, ihus to declare, that while in com- * i
f mon with th? reft .f our fellow citizens, weconfid
j erpeace as a blessing highly tobe prized, and ftudi
. ouflyto be cul'ivated, yet, educated uithe piinciples
ol our late glorious revo ution, we are convinced
that war, with a!l its attendant diftrtffes, is far pr<-
1 ferablc to a surrender ol oui national-freedom and in- to
. dependeuce ; and ihat we are, therefore, prepared, i^f.
sndiyr/atALL hazards, support the the govern-
ment of our counirv in luch meaCures as they shall
dirt ft for thedffence of our honor, our freedom, and S^o«
our independence. veT
JAMTS M. HUGHES,
Brigadier General ol ihe Brigade of the 1
city and county of New-York, and tr 7
coun'y of Richmond. ver
New-Yotk, M»y t 2, \}B. »
4 r
To the Officers of tfje Brigade the city end county of r
Nexv York and county of Richmond. , r '
gentlemen, dig
NO tcflimonials ef pcrfonal r.fped to me, or mai
of attachment to the government, ccujd be more due
acceptable than those in thisaddrefs, which breathe \
the genuine sentiments of Ameticans a'tached to f
their country, by every tie of nature and affe&ion. P a,:
I am happy, -n your opin on, that those whom-
fult and injure us, are left without excuse, becatifc ran«
tvery thing on the part of our government ha* nnd
been attempted ennfiaent with those facrcd duties; ii-ii
which we owe to our lights, and honor, as a iiee '
and independent people. °* 1
Your opinion, that war with all its attendant ,n ? r
diflrcfljs is far to a surrender of our Ra
tional fr»tdom, is undoubtedly juil and becoming }
Americans; but our fltuation is such, that a sur
render of our independence to those who afTuil it,
would only more furcly involve us in the wont 1
war that could fall to our lot.
The real question before us "fecms to be, wher
'her we (hall involve ourselves in an unjust and mi. Con
neceflary war of offence agaiiift one-nation,—Or, gent
be involved by the fraud and violence of another vf v
in a just and neceff.iry war of defence Br file* !
how many nations who have never irj-ired, inlult- the
ed or offended us, are we to aOtft or contribute to or ' 3
deflroy ? com
It is better to be prepared, as you are, at all jr ov <
hazards, to support ths government of our coun
try in the ouaftirea nccefiiry for the defence of ouf
h °noA v- ■ JOHN ADAMS. Ac
, 1 B ladelphia,, June 5, 1795. Ed,
adcif
Tthe Sttfcr:bers appointed a Comm ttec deltr
at a meeting of the Freeholders and Inha- ar "'
bitants ot the County of in the '"A"
J-tate of New-York at the dole of the court Stat
of Common Picas, on the 16th in ft. ' ie£ti
Tothf I'ttESIDLNToj the UNITED S rAT£S. Exe(
Sir ' fr ;p ]#
At any other period inthc political annals Ex«
of our cpuniry, we mig! t have 'emained of tW<
(lie*!, repofi g ourfeivts with confidence in their
the admiiiiftration of the governmem of our bttiu
own choice, and evincing a tranquil but r;f. pleas
approbation of the mcafures cf that «>ve
govern me,it. But fir, w |, eß lbe wide-spread Supr
*— Imputation, of an alienation of the Amct*
can people from their government, is p r!N
pagated and accredited abroad ; whenafo.
reig 1 nation, which has by her agents de
i nounced our independence, cheridles the
dander, And counts uponour divisions as the
I *' means of national degradation and abase
ment, wc have deerhtd it our indispensable
u c ci duty toafiure the Executive of our Govern-
Rlch ' menr, proclaim to the world, that that
a 'if nation and those divisions ha"e no place in
nf the this part of the Union. In recurring t 0
reding the part, we have fought with anxious
f"ub.' f° r j grounds of offence in th- con
fnms duel of cur government towards the French
com- Republic but in this review, thofegrounds
cl.Mi- have been fought for in vain,
re" p." From 'he Srft dawn of the eventful re
volm ion in Franceto this day, we have wit
rieffeJ in the condnft of the American gov
ernment, tti the French nation, on the most
trying occasions, amidst rude external as.
>unty fault*, and the more dangerous undermi.
ning influence within, an nnceafing regard
to judice ; an inflexible adherence to the
, re- ftipnlatiors of fubfilting treaties, and a fa
were cred refpefl for tlie great land maris of mo
un| ral duty and reflitude : a conduft which
Tk. wc are proud as independent Americans to
; at- have preserved in the annals of our country
co ™- for example to future times,
ran'.* Hl PP>' woud U !, ave been for America,
and a! "d doubly so for didrcffed Europ*, if Cor
pnrt responding sentiments of judice anil ( virtue
? ub - had animated the breads of the rulers cf
lijft France, and influenced the Counci's of that
■ ne- nstion ? But what a reverse ! what a dere
dc liftion of public virtu- ! what a triumph of
and force OTf ! of despotism over laws /
,ur What scenes of depravity and corruption
r.or are disclosed to aftcniflied America !
ind Valil Wt ' or a display of those
trarfcendent virtues of which the wo'ld lias
of wi neffed, in the rulers of Frarc-, fd ample
' m and repeated profefiii ns. The cause of re
and P ub, ' can government is difgiactd in Europe
forever ; the fond expectations of the fmcere
jrr. advocates of reform on the other fide of the
'«■ Atlantic, are dashed to the ground ; and
2 °" the friends to the rights of man are con
>-e- ft rained to weep for fufferfng humanity,
m- While we view with much concern, .the
P re f eHt alarmingcrifis, we cannot believe the
lg . period .has arrived, when Americans are to
despair of their republic and pass under a
foreign yoke.
There is rot to be found one community
of freemen on earth', which is uttfubdued
n- by the artifices, and unfubjugated'by the
arms of the all conquering Republic,
he Withthe (ullelt confidence in cur govern
ild raent, we do not hesitate to declare, that
we are prepared fcr any facrifice, that the
nd sovereignty and indepenJf ? ceofour c6untry
n may demand ; a D d if war must be the ne
ss cefTary refurt, the independent yeomanry of
n- this country, with arms in their hands, and
h e e zeal in their hearts, will rally round their
ch government, and appealing to the great dif
r - penfer of judice and arbiter of nations for
of tlie retluude of their conduft, will cheer-
Ml? dlfcharge the last and great duty of
j, Freemen.
js Jedidiab Sanger "|
' Jonas Plait ■
K !Vi Ham Co.brath O
d Thomas R, Go.'d 2*
" Er'ajlus Clark
j Thorn is Cajfety
■, ' George Huntington
■>'lviel French
Henry M'Niel H
Pascal C, I. m
Jof.ph Kirllarid "
- John Moger. J -
7 o the Inhabitants of the county af'Oneida, in
thejlate of Ncie-Tori.
■ gentlemen,
i I THANK you for your address by
. your Committee, which has been presented
to me, by your Representative in Corio-refs,
> Mr. Cochran.
1 j T , h * yen bear to the judice,
[ gbod faith and moral re&itude of your go
vernment, and your fatiffaftion to have it.
. conduit preserved in the annals of our coun
try, for nil example to future times, are
very full and honorable.
The cause or a certain species of Repuh
, hcan government, is disgraced hi Europe
forever; yet there are other kinds belter
digelled, and more adapted to thi nature of
man wh ch wl may (till hope to fee intro
cuced.
When ihe neceffiry of controuling the
padions of whole nations, as well as parties
and factors, by the organization and ar
rangement of gov rnment, (hall be better
underdood, the advocates f, r reform may
Itill be gratified, and the friend of the right's
of man still rejoice in the piogrefs of hu
manity. V"
JOHN ADAMS.
rhiladelphia, June \tb> 1798.
To the PRESIDENT and CONGRESS of tht
United States.
WE, the Mayof, Aldermen, Common'
Lonncil and Freemen cf 'he city of V er .
gennes, in the county of Addifvm and* (late
of Vermont, though deeply impressed: witlt
the train of Ibwlels and unprovked aggrefli
oi.s of the French nation upon onr lawful
commerce, the .ep.aied insult* upon o uv
government, the trgleft and even (hidied
ccntemp! with which our meflengep of
peace and accommi datiori have been treat,
ed, the several system of policy by then
adopted and perfeveringly puifutd, equally
deltruftive to the rights of persons, of things
I and of and especially the dangerous
influence .of that policy upon the United
States ; yet feel a fcciirity in the
>c£titude, firmnefs and moderation of the )
Executive, and of Congress, in this eveiijful
crisis. The offitial condndt of the Supreme
Executive' demands the highest confidence
of the citizens of the United States," and
their mo!i unequivocal exprrflhins of appro
bation and applause. . And we c'hrridi he
pleasing hope that the united councils of the
government, under the guidance of
Suprea-ie Disposer of events, wi'H ftill^feveus from the deltruaion with which we a;c
so unjustly threatened. And while we cv
prefc our aonfidence in the Executive and in
Congress, we cannot conceal our indigna
tion at the conduit of these pretended pa
tnots, whose (Indies and labours (not to
call in queltion their views) are uniformly
calculated to (hackle the measures of admini
ft ration, divide the American people from
their government, and render both subser
vient to foreign influence. But thanks to
Heaven, we are not that degraded, nation.
I less people, who will tamely lay our well-w m
' glory ? lld national happiness in the scale
wiith the barbai ian demands of spoliators
a id the insatiable rapacity of the changeful'
dependent ministers of foreign faftion.
The perfidious Republic which b-alls of X
its terror and prowess to us, is more terrible
in vice» and impiet'es, than in arms ■ and
though we wi(h to remain in the refrefhii.g
Ihades of our. fruitful vine—yet at our coun
try's call we will cheerfully quit them to
gather laureb in the rugged field of Mars-
Our lives ami our pvop tr ty, e v t n to the last
mite, are devoted to our country , and w
freely pledge them in her canfe, to be used
against any nation on earth, which with
ficrihgeous finger (hall dare to toucll the
holy ark of our national rights.
(Signed by ibe Mayor, Alderman, Com
mon Council Freemen of the city of
I Versrennes,)
y trgennes, Maytyth, 179?.
To the Mayor, Aldermen, Common Council
anu Freemen of in the county of
AJui; on andjlate of V °.rmont.
GENTLEMEN,
YOUR address to the President and
Congress has been prefeoted to me by your
Sectors,. Mr. Paine and Mr. Chipman.and
your leuitfentative, Mr. Morris. •
Vouropp. luion to that policy (it indeed
it can be sailed policy) which is equallv de--
flrufl.ve of porfors-, thing* and nation!,, docs
honor to your underlUndings and difpo
(iti"n-. 1
The only fecarftv we have under Heaven,
is in the wifd-m, reftitude, firmnefs and
moderation ,of Congress.
Yciir approbation of the cbndua of the
fnpit l:' exi c.utive authority of government,
, is very pleating ; but you (liould remember
♦Uin do no more than execute tlie lawn. ,
If the united councils of our coun'ry can
f«ve us from the dcftru6tioo with which we <
are so nnjuftly threatened, it can only be
under the guidance of the Supreme IKfpofer, '<
by the united valoV, constancy and exertions
of the people. All who recolieft the histo
ry of Vermont and its inhabitants, will easily ,
und. rltand them when they declare their (
refojm.on, at the call of their country, to I
quit their refrefhing (hades and fruitful vines
to gather laurels in the field of Mars " 1
Your lives and your property will not be j
pledged in vain againll the nation which,
with sacrilegious hand, /hall touch the ark '
of your national rights. 1
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, June slb-, 1798.
By this day's Mail. )
vEw-YORK, June u. 1 ;
VOTES for GOVERNOR. j
Jay. Livingston. <"
Oneida 995 v
Tioga 192 .107 £
1 '47 263
884 majority of Saturday.
Sir. Jay is a-hcad 1977> ud three coun- v
ties, to wit, Ontario. Chenango and Onon- V
dap", only remain to be canvassed ; and vve r '
understand these counties will be fi.iidied „
this day.
- Died, on S'turday last, William Seton, • Y
Eiq. a worthy and refpeilahle merchant of
this city. 11
111
BOSTON, June 7. \
Wa learn, from Providence, that on the H
news arriving of the French privateer nioun
■ling t6 guns (mentioned the New-
London head) being in the S«und, a large
K ship belonging to John Brown, esq. was im- N
med.ately armed' with 20 nine-pounders,
completely officered and manned in four
hours, and sent out after the daring Bucan
neer, whose objeft it is well known, is to
plunder our commerce from our harbour's >T
mouth. .
Last evening arrivedthe (hip Sarah, Hop- So
kins, from Algiers, 80 days—the captain 0l
- and paflengers, infoi m that the frigate Cref-
cent fe.nl by "ur government as a present te
the Dey, was highly . admired, insomuch, t
that valuable pri fentsweie made to the capt. *
and crew ; and the bigheft encomiums paf
ied| on the American character. The Dey
was in a poo- ttate of health- ;l j ;
ab
Mozard is away—Where he is gone, no c)l
tongue can tell. We hear that before his wa
Sight, he wrote an infplent letter to the go
vernor, which has since been delivered to his
Excellency, on the fubjedt of a fraternal
Jiug, which the said Mozard received from AN
an American sailor.
Macpherfon's BJues.
BATTAI lON ORDERS, Fr '
June 12th, 1978. s
The Blues are to afiemble, for the purpose ■ A
of exercise, at the public square Market and
Broad-ftret ts, to-mori ow looming at fiveo'elock fat
in full uniform
ROBERT HEYSHAM, Adjutant, p. t. -J
London Particular Madeira Wine.
A few pipes a fupfrior quality, lit (or imnse
mediate use ; nfld'-'CL AR£ f in cases.
FOR SALE BY 2 C
{ " Michael Connor,
No. ici, -corner of Second and Dock ftrctrs. lUr
"jbne 9.
No 11 cE. the
Citizens of the City and liberties of
X Phiiadelphia, above the aj:e of Forty save,
are requeflod ton.cctit Mr. Dunwoor'v's rav- i
ern on Wedncfday evenii » next at 7 o'clock, to ;
con6dtr th*,pro|iriety ot trmho 'yini? dilci- c f
ihtnifvlyea /<>r «kr pr#iftr«tU>o of the ar j
junc &
f 0R THE OF Tl.'£ UNITED STATES.
in
a - ' Poetic Epistze,
* 0 Add "pi to tk: Young Men cf PhHadel
,y phia, -who firjl offered their fervid; to
[_ their country.
m (Concluded)
r- Fr ;"" r and al! flrcngth
■ 0 mZ X ' fr,R : u : ,o: '' • 1 " d »rms cbtain'd ;
to May that great God, wh„f, awful ej-c pervade.,
ikL ? L" g n,yr ' aJs of P/olifie globt-s,
;n Whose hand ha. niade, a„d whose altmVhty word
] e Com" and», futhms and regulates ths whole
At Whofedread Sat worlds from nothing rife,
1 W noth " li T ; protect your bands;
And crown your arirs with honorable peace 1
\ But toJecttre hi. never failing »;j,
] t^ OUt Wh ' ch 3,1 '» Vain, Jijirw it wrll,
le O tall not, Iricnds, into that l'axal foarc
1(1 M hC | W o CC c k u f of n "' io "». =""1' f world.,
iff v, ? „ cf H,m - whose ' vcr giving hand
Difptnfei all, and alk< alone rr'urt * 1
™" 2' f Hel ' Ul b ," rrs - Tn " «"■ "'Hft the noise
to »i diu!rt.«ftd trumpets i„ the buttling C air->,
~ whifsering calls of corfcience die unheard
wnreVered; too ©ft the horndfeunds
?J b '^ f P heni y disgrace the tent, which else
Would beam with worth unfallicd and ,dorM.
f ] ?°° ,°r fr V W , ™ fC " ""f"' ,he foi ' ,icr ' wrapt
importance, scorns the bonds
le °l moral duties, a, the coward's law,
Aod thinks it glory 10 ruS.l his God."
1 B.ware ! my,friends, 110 courage.tanexifl.
No honor, Where religion*, tics are held
, fco 'n i Religion 1 mjldeC nurse of all,
Of every virtue, that adorn.the heart;
the filial chain that binds mankind to God,
1 lie chain fraternal binding man toman.
<V Courag •is not the proud ciw m; t -of- laws,
Or human or riiv ; ne, nor y-t depends
J Oil roe unthinking flfre-afd of death :•
• v cre theeoward \ rave, whose dadard foul
. brinks from misfortune, and in death's embrace,
d ae-.KS a. bafc ic.'uge from the tcif. of life.
IP Out hvc-, our country and our Go:! aloiie
d atl 'l»im j thnr laws our rule at right.
Courage is, daring to do all vnngit ;
I isnpt the momentary baril . f pride,
d Of injur'd pride for miult uudeferv'd •
I: is the firm, decided, yet the cool ' •
• s Ihe reason founded purpose, to obey
' n peace or war., .wliene'er our duties call,
In fp.»e of fcoffings, dfath.
1, T . H '" lor ' ,he fol'her'sgreat purfjit, of youth
The nablcft ornament ; of age, the fun <
Which gil ts reflexion's wings, and lights th I mind
* ,th i5 I,ld n ! ,: !5 r4 y s hick through the cloud of life;
e ,°" 0 , r l', 6 not the glare that deck.
( the child df fortune, nurs'd alone by her,
Nor is its base the blood ol hurr.an kind ;
It dtvells with merey, and admits of one,'
On ' only parent, courage Wi .! applied ■
Such arc the virtues that make soldier. great • !
■ Such noware yours; preferveth « rben nnchmg'd: 1
. They are the shield, tht sole refnam ng Hleld •
' 01 threaten d freedom, the fo'e bulwark now j
. Of innocence and worth, sole rock on which 1
Amidst the chao. of JiQ'raaing ftornu '
Reiigio-rnow can reft. Refieft my friends
How you are bteft beyond tho common lot
Of other nations ; here no tyrant rutes
Despotic o'er your thought., here vice retire. .
d from public view', and virtue five's
Revcr'd andhonor'd by Columbia's fjfc.,
1 fere mild religion dwells in peire;
Not madefubl'ervient to the will of power, '
3ut glow in,; sure with energy divine. ' '
Here all that's right is liberty, and men
Uncheek'd as aogels in their songs of praise 1
Pourforth their tributes as their hearts direct. '
These, these are blefiings which we muD preserve. v
No toil . too grt danger too severe, '
iMo price, save thar#y vile submission paid, r
Too dear for blessings (uch as these. They will S
1 with us remain, well guarded'round 0
With mrtm'i walls, more firm than those far famed r
Of Aihur'g Mineveh, or those more flroiig ii
Built by Seniiramia, with hundred gate, ~ .c
Ol fnlid i rafi— Nor wr'j the cause alone t
We re call'd to fight, it i. the general canfe n
Of panting millions, unborn,. v
Of all the world,—the cause cf Heaven itfelf. f
O let me here indulge, (nor wild perhips) 1
Th' enraptured thought which from my bolom v
bounds ! r!
While o'er the e*nern world rty streaming eyes -tl
V iew mad ning rage to defolaiioß urge c
The human race, the altars of our God a
Pro'anad with murd<r, panicWe and lull,— p
Himfelf d-fpifed—(my Ciuddering foul Ihriuks rl
■ hack u
Struck dumb with horror at the dreadful theme : r,
■ Yet will [ oil) when I behold tliefe fc. nes „
Which make all Europe a wide waste of ruin, 1,
I ca./t lilt.think, Jehovah ilr. solved
In pity to mankind to interpose
His red right arfti, and make the guilt reeorf.
As. once troia Egypt's flav'r y he redccm'J
Hi* chosen people,, so ni*y now his voice
Sound to Columbians from his throne on high ta
And calf them forth the guardians of his laws. ri
Han 1 c:u!d a spur more <harp than that c<
Already in your hearts, indulge this thought, di
Nor roving wide from reason's steady course lii
"Jrga I this wifti—They who for virtue fight It
For freedom, innocence, the love of truth, di
Religion, justice and humanity, r£
Stand forth the bulwark of the laws of God. h.
i Then let us rife my friends, our cause i. great,
Tis the defence of all that's dear to man,
And asGolia'a 'fore a Sheperd fcil,
i>o may our Giant foet 'fore weaker band.; ca
Our lance our duties, and our rock our G ,")D. th
Board and Lodging. th
WANTED in .a private family, where there to
are no small children, board and lodgine
Hy the year, far a gentleman, his wife, three Z
phildren and servant. A. the parties propose to
find their own furniture, and, will be fatisfied with
plain fare, it is the terms will be reason
able. An airy fituaticn in the neighborhood of " C
Chefnut Market and Arch streets, to the we.l- CU
ward of Fourth I'lreet, will be preferred. ' cr '
Enquire of the Printer. fu
i" nc "■ ga
rhis Day is~P[ibliihed, ~ i"
AND FOR SALE BYJ. #F. NNO, f iQ.C HFS t N U T-S ' RIET VO
AN ADDRESS le:
70 the People of Maryland, °
ON the origin, progress and prel.st I'ate of " '
Frencri aggreflion, ,-with a Iketch of the infamou. W '
attempts to degrade the Government of the United
Siates, and some reflefiions on the late proc-edings yi
in Congref.; written the lad of April i n the pre, wl
sent year, by a Member of the Houle of Keprelen- ,V,
tativea. r lu
junen l to
NOTICE, ~ T
■"PHE Owners or Consignees of velTels per- ki
1- forming quarantine are to take notice that lia
a cart arrives from the Hospital at the Health-
Office at 7 o clock and leaves it by 9 ererv nvir- '
ning (Sundays excepted) fucli fuppliesas'are to ■ pi
be forwarded to vcfiels are desired to be sent to P l '
the Health C ffice before the hour of nine
8 C. cu
A tHU COPIES OF re]
The Last Dispatches, l^"
!-rom the American Envojs at Par : s, and a few , Vf
rl tbcle hi,l btiore Congress, 011 the id ol April T
ard 4th < f May, may be had at this Cfli -e, 1
"■
~
tg TUESDAY EVENING, Jvsb 12.
CONGRESS.
j _ Yesterday, the ' Oilfe of Representatives
of the U. ited States, took up the amend
ments of the Senate io the bill for fufpei.d-
H ing. the Commercial Intercourse between
- thii country and F.ance; the mofl material
of which was one which gave power to the
Prefidcßt to except I'ueh vessels from the pro
hibition as he (houlJ think proper. This a
mendment was modified by ftriktng out the
words " in all cases," and inserting, " infuch
cases as he miy deem necejfury to a'ul the de
parture of French perfoos, •with their goods
andejfcßs, ivhajhatt have rrj] tdin this coun
try■ " T bin amendment to the amendment,
the house was afterward' informed the Sen~
ate concurred in. The Senate h;ive also a
greed to a conference on the fubj-S of ad
journment The house went again into the
committee of the whole on the bill to pro
vide for the valuation of lands and dwelling
hosfes, and the. enumervtion of (laves with
in tile United States, which being gone 1
1 through, tlie.committee rose, and th house '
having concurred in the amendments of the j
crmtr.it tec of,the whole, and introduced aj
few others,., thi bill was ordered'to be en
grofTed for a third reading on Wednesday.
-Appointments by Authority.
Christopher Raymond Perry, of Rhode-
Iffand, and Richard "Valentine Morris, of
New-York, to captains in the navy.
William Turner, of Virginia, 2(1 sur
geon's mate of the United States frigate.
George Wright, of New-Jersey, furgcon's
mate of the (hip Delaware.
Spme gentlemen who C3me pafleugers in
the mail stage, report, that a veffcl arrived
at New-York from' England, after the
, closing of the mail, with accounts to May 1.
It IS acommon cafe, with men who come in ar the
fag end of a Icaft, ;o eat moreivoracioudy than o herj.
KxaSiy so is it with the impartial, milk and water
GaE' t"ie»ofihij country. Ftdtralifm is now theorder of
' ' l,e tla y. with them ('.o life an oidious phrase of the
baibanans) and finding it ©f no .avail > n y Unger to
attempt r.(ilting the current, they lint down tl*
. stream, exulting with a cowardly mwWrs in the dlf
alters of their more conlUnt quondam friends.
Aniongft other traits of le'deralrlm, , patriotic
fh >wman, in ancaftern (late, advertises ajcicrat can
honqde.
translations
For the Gazette of tie United States.
From Leyden Gazettes, received by the (hip
Brothers, Henderfon, 64 days from Amiler
dim.
Fxtraa of a Utter from Copenhagen, Vsrcb 17.
~ " Thc Denmark, which (till ex
hibited the remains of the Uft terrible conflagra
tion, wat again visited the day before yeflerday,
with a repetition of th.it terrible calamity. Be
tween io and if in the evening,, the fire broke
nut all of a sudden, in the'barracks of the body
guard of horse, The flames f.J by a quantity
or hay and straw, wl jch was deposited there,
made so rapid a progress, th»t the whole build
ing was enveloped in fire before |the lead fuecor
could arrive. An extraordinary calm favorinc
thc aitive efforts which were made, and still
more the animating example of the Prince Royal
who ran forthwith to the danger, the fire was
£ot unriei the nej(t day, Monday, towards "even
ing : but a few hours after it again broke forth '
with equal violence in a building Contiguous to \
the barracks, i. ei the magaziee of.fodder for
the royal flables': this has been entirely confnm- !
, w ';h alt «» contents, 60", coo wt.nf hn,y,&c,
as well JS the royal brewhoufe, and the princi- '
pal magazine of fuel for this capital.. At length,
tins morning, this second conflagration was got
tinder, and the arl'enalt, the royal library, the '
court of l'upplies for the marine," and the edifice ■
of the royal colleges, all whirh, fituattd dire>a
ly opposite the burning buiMjnps, were in the
mofl imminent danger, so: tunattly preserved."
GENOA, Mr.rch jq, i
A treaty of alliance and- commerce is on thev (
tapis between thc Ftensh republic ami tile Ligii- ;
nan. There is little doubt, ihat it will be made <
conformable to the principles which have pre- v
dominated in the alliances of the French repnb
lie with the Baravian and Cisalpine republic?. J
It IS not probable that it will meet here the f., ,e 1
difficulties a« that with this last Republic. It is f
relative to the opposition wheh general Berthier (
has encountered in this affair at Milan, th the t
has ilTued the following proclamation.
Head Quarters, Genoa, March 17, ,
A treaty of alliance with the Freneh republic ?
can alone assure you liberty ; and by eonfequence J
this is the lad blow flruck at tyranny. A great
treason was organized against your welfare,
Already we have difcovered'many threads of 4
that conspiracy: at the fatne time, they fought c
to excite the French a. my ag inft discipline, in o
order to How up troubles in vour departments :
Journahfts were paid to mifr'eprcft nt and insult "
the 1 icnch nation ; and yon know thai it is not
insulted with impunity. The counter-revolu- i<
tiomlti drove to let the French and Cifalpines to a
cutirg one another's throats. A deputy of the n
council of ancients (but, I speak it with pha- 1.
lure, a flranger to tl.o Cisalpine territory) or- r
gamzed a (edition, for delivering Mantua to thc ,
enemies of the Cisalpine republic: the traitors
in the pay of royalist powers, who furr und
von, are perhaps conceal, d in some of the mod
relpedlable authorities of your government. V
Other men, wholeintentions reufi be pnre.ferve, F
without wishing it, your enemi. s, either from k,
Want "f re-fle<f>io/» or from ignorance.
Cisalpine People, can you ever forget that C y
yon owe your liberty to the French blood,
which has besprinkled your country, to
the pains and facrifices of that Grande Na
tion, which is the admiration of the entire
universe. Yes, the French are your friends:
They will always be so: and they will
know how to carry on the work which they 5 '
have begun. te
In the orders which I have given for j
punilhing the counter-revolutionary and im
pi ndent jotirualills, who have spoken with >
irreverence of theJFrcnch nation ;in theac- '
cufation which I have called for against a r 3
reprcfentative of the people, traitor to his C
country and to the French army,—l have
refpetfed those principles of Liberty, which "
we have given you. when at the fame time
I might have employed the Military Au, Tl
tho.rity. vc
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
p RT OF PHILADELPI IA
e ARkIvKD. days
Ship,Brothers,.ffemJerfon, AmCUrdam 54
Barque Afdnana, Lee, London
snow William, Half,. Bourdcatix 71
Sc.i 1 Sally, Saunders, Gharlelton 9
John, Waterman, St. Mary's 10
, es Sloo ( . Polly, Thompfpn, New- York i
d Patienc.-, Willis, ' New-York 8
j Arrived at the Fort.
Brig Molly r Lack, Petit Goave so days
"n On the aadult. was plundered by a French
al barge, off the weft end of Gonaive 111 and, of
1C all the fiores, deaths and several coil of cor
0-
a- c,' 8 Campbell, LaGuira 21
Sch. Commerce, Arnold, C.Francois 12
Two I'oends, Boomaii, Savannah
Eflher & Eliza, Lindfay, Curracoa 12
f- Hopeftill, N. Provitjence 8
rls Capt. Campbell, of the brig Eliza, on the
n- I f Ma /»' ' n ' at « 22 > 69, spoke the bri£
t 'f ope,, 24days from Hatford, for Hifpaniola—
' fame day spoke a French privateerof 12 guns
n " and afterfoiiit converfatiou was allowed to
a- J proceed.
1- j Jluie 9, spoke the Ganges (loop of war and
le ! General Greene cutter, on a cruize, Cape
; Henlopen W. N. W. distant r2 leagues.—
j About ten days before the Eliza failed, two
& i Spanish 44 gun frigates and a letter of marque,
| arrived at La Guira, troln Cadiz in 25 days,
ie ; having flipt out in* company with a 74 gun
e ! Ihip and several traofports, bound to Car
ie j thagena.
a j The Danish Ihip Iris, Captain Gallis, fatfs
~1 from ll(, nce for Hamburgh,' 011 Weduefctiy,
and the armed brig Diana, Captain Kirk
bride, for Liverpool, 011 Tliirfdav, wind
permit-ting.
The Ihip Edward, Captain Wickham, from
.. hence, has arrived ar Amrterdam.
p The Ganges was off Indian River on Sun."
day morning,- standing to the southward under
ealy fail.
Came up from the Fort*
Brig Molly, Kilby, Gonaives
Liberty, Duvrr, Jacqu ntl
Anthony, Dove, St. Ma.tins
Rambler, Odlin, St. Johns \V. I.
" Polly, Coffin, Caps Francois
Schr. Polly, & Betsy, Person, * do.
Fancy, I ain'er, N. Providence
Sloop Nancy, Hardy, ( ape-Francois
CLEARED.
* Ship North, America, Ban es, St. Thomas
, Brig America", Venn, Gibraltar
f Maria, Slierer. Charlelton
1 1 wo Sillers, Steinmetz, Cype-Francois
c Schr. Orion, Stevenson, Aux Caves'
Win field Pack t Mc'Near, Norfolk
Libfrty Canby, do.
; Triton, Ripeley, do. .
Elizabeth, Fulton, do.
Little Betsy, Wel(h, do.
Tryal, Hand, Alexandria
Sloop Sophia, Ely, New York
Mechanic, Halliberton, do.
Polly, Williams, do.
Jbhanna Magdalem, Perrytr'an, do.
Herald, Brewer, New-London
New-Tori, June 11.
arrived.
Ship Mary Ann, Park, Bordeaux 56
Caledonia, Sands, Greenock 52 '
Brig Dublin Packet, Green-, Liverpool
Naucy, Worth, Charleston
Schr. Friendfliip, Higby, Cape Francois
' Pegasus, Smith, Cayenne -
Sloop Swallow, Bollon
Corneala, , Tbrtola
Yesterday returned to this port, the
Britilh armed brig Earl Moira, from a 1
cruise. J
The Earl Moira, on the Bth inft. spoke a P
schooner, Capt. Brown, fram New-York t
to St. Thomas, the land bearing N. W. dif-
tance 20 leagues. Same day spoke brig
Mary, Boadman, bound to Surrinam, dif- ~
tance 18 leagues. On the 9th, spoke (hip r
Edinburgh Packet, M'Laughlin, bound to
Leith, distance 12 leagues, land bearii t c j
W. N. W. 0 g,
Extras from the log-book of the (hip Cale- w
donia : e *
Sailed from Greenock April 17 April J
-30, spoke the ship Cleopatra, from Bremen,
bound to Baltimore, out 19 days, Walter Hi
Campbell, mailer, all well, lat. 56, jo, long. hr
27, 00. June 3, Nantucket (hoals W. by ,h
S. 25 leagues, was boardid by the St. Al. £
bans, Brit (h 64, capt. Pinder. who had 3 fli
prizes in tow, viz. schooner Triton of Phi- pr
ladelphia, brig Batchelor of do. bnV Bet
sey of WifcafTet, boutid to Halifax—Ship "
George, of Mew York, from Liverpool,
bound to Norfolk, out 70 days, who on
the fame day was supplied with provisions T
by capt. Croket, of the Amsterdam Packet. .
Evtraft from the log-book of the schooner "
Pegasus from Cayenne. j r ,
Saturday June 9 in lat. 39 32 long 73 he
46 at 6A. M. fawa schooner S. W. then ">
calm distance about 3 leagues : at half part h >'
8 sprung up a finall breeze from N W by W
made all fail— the fchr. made fail after us,
(leering N and Nby W. at 11 the breeze St ,
increaling, preceived we left Kirn—at 9 saw fa
a (hip to northward (landing to the south ag
ward—at half pad 11 (he fchr tacked and
lay too at half pall 12'oclock—the lad we fr
saw of the (hip her topsails were on the cap
laying too and the fchr by her.
Br/Jlon, June 5. vei
This day arrived, fchr. Sea-Flower, from ry
\ irginia the ill in ft. was brought to by a
French 8 gun privateer, who ordered the
boat on board, examined his papers, took 3 an
caflc of water, and a barrel of bread, and S,
then permitted her to proceed.
June 6 Z
Same day, (hip Delight, Wilton, Liver- tin
pool, kept under convoy her whole voyage,
Three days fißce parted company with the
St. Albans, the capt.of which was extreme
ly displeased with the condu<a of the mas- re< :
ters of ttjofc vcfiels which hft the convoy. -J
She intended to cruife-off the coast a few
days, then proceed to Halifax.
We learn, that the Weft Capdle, with
her cargo, captured on her pa(fage from Ba- _j
tavia to Boston, a yearlaft Januar ; after T
several days trial, in the court of Admiralty
in Enjland, before Judge Marriot, has been
reflored to its owners in this country.
Norfolk, June 5.
On Saturday ?rrived the fchrjoricr Siftc.s, c/pta n
Tupman, 10 days from Cape Nichoia Mole By this
vcflil we have pofnivc accoiirus iliat St. Miici c.
_ f ' t . (
i vacu »ted 0.. lie olf. .lit. Jni P .rt-m.Pri, ce ird IM .
I c.lia>«, om; l- stb. '\!lrhe rimerimn iv/Iclsac ih<- j-
I r ve J" 3,es lv « c "npiefled. ir.ro gov- mr.ent fe.vi~i
j for the purpifc of wrryiig „ff ,he off -fls Sai rd
jys { convoy-os the P:o r eTpinc frijfa'c-a: far as U*»l
54 I * 4 ' ln company with 22 fa.l of American!, of wh m
_ . "p . r U pra«nTfc.>iicfts
Snip Nathaniel fia ley, Campbell, for Philadelphia
B r| gjarv, Watts,tlo. r
9 Sthr.
Polly, Forfyth, for Norfolk.
PollyvHatrifon, for Baltimore#
* Miraculous Pin he.r,- , do.
; Rover V cO, do.
ys Sally,-" , Salem. - *
zh j Snow Harmony, Mai-fliHl. for Charleflon.
01 ' . Left at the Mile,
f- l S ' a r» v «»nneman, of Phiradelphia.
B;ig Live!v, Stewart, do."
21 Helight,; Fowler, of Newburyport.
2 •> Diana, Calvert, of Norfolk.
~ Shin kfnr 6e T d J inCC £ C bft arriva,# from
12 P " ~ wi h coffee „■*
8 S f ■ ' V<5; condemned for hivinj
carried fpeeiei.o purchase it.
le Brig Conftam, Till,man, f, om VValhington, to !,.
,g m.ica ; condemned for having dea.ed out for a
French port. 0
ns Schr. rtiendft.ip, Odlin, of Philadelphia. b.-mnd f,om
t0 Curracoa to Arquin, wi:h fuecie to buy coifee
calh condemned, veflel fiea-cd
1(i Sloop Driver, Cathmin, ot Philadelphia c „
2 _ Fiancou, with a cargo of I ro\ifion»
•o For Sale, or to Let,
e, ASai«ttEDUTIWS U |,|ONCJV t »
s, IHE whole or ou« half of a PLANTATION'
m 1 .011 <he riVer,Delaware, between Borl«;tron
r . andßprdemon (two miles, from the latter) c'on.
talning about 4 co acre, ;60 of which are Ltor*
] s n.eadinv, and 100 wood land ; fliera-are JC r-s
T, "J cut this year f,,clu(ive of mea .
but «'>ll<*ceed jc the n.xt ; and any qi-arr.
■a M y ut m ?V 1 had for the unlaud Irom the
nicaco'-v without injury.
ti 1 o '' ch " J ", f fruit yielding between 60
and 70 hqgftreads of e*.diet cider ;% dweliing
|>. house with a b a rn, fuble, granary and other™.
:r v*?-. ' B z*£° «•>•>< «>"' pau in cafe of a di
viiion; on the other are noihiprcxemcntc, but hat
one ot the moll elegant C»ovions for a houfc to b*
fcen on the rivcr. i'he iand is of good quality,
■f f "; <»' agriculture, and convert
tl to market)), land or water. For terms apri y to
I S the owner on the premises. 1 * '
Tlumaj St- John.
is J" Re '» » J
Kphra rn CJark,
: CLOCK & IV at CIfMA KE R,
W Ctrntrlf Prert <mj MirkJ Strr/t.
I _ER£ he is just. opening a vcrj exterlive
fupplyof clock dials, can brass, l el; s for
r gcd work and pinion,, pumice dene and emery,
I) , c . ' h-lr d and berch v!ce«, witch and clock
plyers, large and small si es, fiio. and knee chape,
chams, seal, and key,, gold, gilt and silver watt V
1 es, Ipnng and weight clocks
k jane ,» __ , tu&.tf
• For Sale by the Subferibers,
Vhe foTowing GOODS, iuft arrived in the ship
Pigou, capt. CJay, from Canton
Bohca,
a Hyson Skin, ( TE4
Young Hyson, j
Sugar in boxe9 and bajft'
And a quantity of Cassia
ALSO, TO BE SOtD,
; >^^> The feid Aip PIGOU,
A w , e " tm », taft Ailing ship'
jgg«£gj|£p live tak and cedar frame, and cop
• ,»f ,/• 1 f " ed - she mrafuris 76 feet lei.
' betwetn decki. 3 h ° ld ' a " d 6
[ - Mordeceit Learns,
Jejfc & Robert JValn,
1. William Sanfbm.
June 11. . J .
— ■ "
iVJillenery Room,
Market street,
Afiss CII R tST A L
INFORMS her friends, that fte has received by
** 'I s * rny ? h . E ««pe, her Usual I up.
I P y f the very latest fafbions n MILLENERV
| etc. with a great variety of' Straw I eo-hom
3S&® antl r ' ON WHTS, cf the ntv. e.l fh'apes,
which will be opened this day.
j' ne fr - _ act
I hereby give Notice, ~
'f° lU ™y creditors, that I have applied by nr-
X tition to the judges of the court of c-nmnfo-i
E . rn JT t,>e co «"ty" of Philadelphia, at their fef
!" J o "' ', erm this month, prayir g that they
would exte,,d tome,he benefit of an ad of Gen
feral Aflembly of thii Commonwealih, pal Ted the
4<bday of April, i r9 S, entitled " a aAcl pro .
viding that the perlcn of a debtor (ball notb/iia
b e to imprifoninent for debt after delivering up
his cftatc for the benefit of his creditorc, unlefsh*-
hath been guilty of fraud or embezzlement," and
that the said court hath appointed Monday ihe
15th d?y of June inftart, ar 10 o'clock, P, M. to
225 Z'tt *2h^r 11 ruth p' a « «•^re
U hcld . whc " tht v may attend if th y think
pr ? r " - JOHN GRAHAM.
J""" 1 ' st ljr
ADVERTWEMEWr
T> ESI' FD from a dctaehrrient untler the
command of captaip Edward Miller Ra
tioned at Spring-Gardens. '
7«"< .?</, r;SB-John M'lfim ck,. Ib-rn in
Irtlan.-,, cmti.ty of Antrim ; j feet 9 inches in
height, dark hair, eves ami complexioh,' pVk
marked, aged 28 years, (peaks broad, laftftetl
by enlign Koot, at New Btunl'wick, liad on his
rf f™ental s , ft ale a blanket when he wen'
awav, he is a druukard and vcryafTumhie.'
June 61 h James born in Che'tier
State of Maflachufetts, h,own hair, grey ev l
fair c mplexion, 1-vefeet 11 inches in Lilht"
aged ,4 years, by trade a hlackfmith, halou
and kt ' C his P' ft
EliiliiriStcw> apriToier, born fn Sywiibury,
Mate of Connedlicut, aged 3 6, years, blaek hatr
datk eyes and complexion, a-repeated dfferter
very writes a tolerable hand and,", -
ry talkative. Hid o'n regimental Olirt and oyer- .
alls when he defrrted the guard.
Whoever will apprehend the atove delerters
and return them to Spring Garden, i„ Philadel
phia, or to any officer belonging to the.United
States or confine them in any goal anil g|w *
tce fc that they may he otr_, c d ft di hare leir
tl° rh reu '" r e ' ther nt ' * tn '. or thirty for
the three-an-! all reasonable charts naid -
EDWARD MILLER, capta ; n
, » T , ■ lU of Infantry.
*„ Tfc.4fc.mt printers i., the U ni„ !l arc
reqneft»l to insert the above,
june 1t
30 tons ot Lignum Vit®,
FOR SALE By
NICKLIN K GSjFFP H
i" Re 7 tuth-if
The Cargo of the Brig iMm™
FROM BOUKDEjiUX,
t v COWSIStING OF
Claret inhhds.ajid Cal'es
Oyl, Capers, Olives, Anthcv.-es and Prunes
fOR SALE BV «
7 bomas Fil%fimons»Fresh Teas.
j'ujl Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
Ami For Salty by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Comptiug House, No. 54, Chafnut-ftreet,
ANO by
SAM. E. HOWELL.
At his Compting House, Crookeu billet wharf,
Bohea, Souchong, Hyion, Young
Hyson, HyfonSkin, aad lmpfrial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, aflbrted ; black and coloured Lute
strings and Sattin*, Nar.keens Caff:a, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and luteftr.ingUmbrellas,
Whale-bone ijieks.
Tbey lave also For Scde,
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchiefs,
French Can*bricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes,
march 8.
FOR SJLE.
A THR2E Story Brick House, on the north
fide of spruce-street near Second-street,
adjoining the wall of Mr. Jones's garden and
formerly occupied by David Lenox, elq. — This
house is in compleat repair with back buildings,
confining of a Piazza, Kitchen andahmdfome
Dining over the Kitchefl.
As nny Perf>n inclined to purchase will view
the premifc9,a «aore particular description iscon
fidcred unnecellary.
The terms of payment will be one third ca(h,
one third i« 6 months and *he remainder in 12
months tvith interest. For further information,
Enquire of JOHN G&AtG,
A'<>. ii Dock-flreet.
may 16
Military Colours.
At a GULLAGER'S
Portrait and Ornamental Painting Rooms,
No. 50, South Fourth, next to Chefnut street,
oppolitq the Friends' Meeting.
P AINTING on silks for Military and other or
namental purposes (in a manner peculiar to
fcimfein durable, not to be injured by the weather,
which for elegance of design, truth and beauty of
colouring, ceatnefs and malferly execution, has
hoCfceefi equalled by George Rutter and Co.
FLAGS and DRUMS
Furnifiled with all poflible dispatch, on themoft
reafonaMe terms.
Ornamental Painting, Si giis, Fire Buck
ets, Cornices, &c. Stc. executed' in llile (Aotthat
funerb stile of modern elegance peculiar to G. R.)
but in a workman like manner, peculiar to an ar
tilt ma(ler of hi* proiefiion.
Mr. Gullacer, from a number of years expe
dience in Europe-and this country, flatters himfelf
that profcflionul
alrlc demands, will meet Ihe entire approbation of
thofc gentlemen who wi l please to c .11 at his Piintj
r.g Rooms. §6w may 5*
N O T I C r E<
P. S. Gentlemen in town and
country, wilhing for a fujiply of Coldurs and
Drums, painted in a tr.alierly manner, will no
doul-t feel tiiemfelvet Obliged for the kind cau ion
given by Georg€ Rutter and Co. not to trail felf-
a'dvertifement?, but exam;ne the work
bxccutcd by both parties -One view will fatif
-4y th«-m where." the superiority save thefpoil
'mg of "good silks by G'-argeßutter's pencil—and
•difcoytr the requisites for t|\e c<-ntracling talents
of Henry at Gerrr.anYown may JO.
1 ea Warehouse,
oiTosrfE The rc.ST oryiCf.
THF.*3u\ftnbef returns her fmcere thanks for
Ihe "cncrou» encourugement ihe haa'dxperien
«d flftcc her c6mmencem;nt begs leave
to
received a frelh (upply of all kifl.ds of Tea from the
late arrivals at Ne\y-York. &c. and it be her
conll iMt feubrayouc 'o merit their future support.
She is in iaily" fcxpeilation of receiving a large fup
piy of" "Sod Coffee. - . •
SARAH iATON.
may 3"> -" - .• -» • • *ai!fcfßt
Very Great Bargains,
CONSIS .riNGof Scotch and
India Meflins, now fcllifcg off and well
woi th th? att«j)tion of Houkkctpcrs to make
puichafe of- Eiwjuiie of.
7 homti RandaH,
No. 88, SprUcc-Jlrect.
may 17 _§_
The following Certificates of
fVNDED DEBT OF THE UNITED STATES
on th® Books of the treasury, were
O forwarded for Lowdon by the fliip William
Pcrin, Captain Jofiah. which hath been captured,
arid the Certificates supposed to be lpft, viz :
3164. 83. Deferred debt, in .the name of Rev,
E 'ward '.iiddy, of Thrcdrea, in Cornwall,
Great Britain, dated June z, 1797. Certificate
No. 10,072.
Soil. l?. Six per Cent. Stoek, in the name of
lidward Horue. of Bevis motmt, Hants, Great
Britain, dated May 30, 1797- No. 15196.
3620. 50. Deferred -Debt* in the name of Will
iam Manning, of Ormfby, in the county of Nor
folk, in England, dated July 10, 1797* No.
10199.
401 $3. 72. Three per Cent. Stock, in the name
of Janntt Mathew, of Upper Seymour street,
London, Widow, dated Odoter 31 1797. No.
11820.
For the renewal of the above Certificates, ap
plication is intended to be made at the said office of
jhe Treasury of the United Stat.-s, —and all per
sons concerned aredefired to .talc notice.
• ALSO IN THE SAME VES9EL,
Fifteen shares Storkof the Bant of United States in
thenarrie of William Manning,of Ornofby, eoun
ti'ty of Norfolk, England, viz. Three Certificates
for five (hares each, dated January 1, 1797.
No. 25982, 25083, 25984.
Foethe renewal of application is meant to
made lo the said Bank of the United States, —
and All persons concerned therein are defircd to
{ake notice.
JN.'rAUGHAN. -i
Phi lad alphia, may 4.
The following Certificates of Shares
IN the North American Company, {landing
wn'the Books of said Company in the name.of ,
Dan:el Lifter, of Hackney, iij the county of„Mid
dlefcx, England—wiz. No. 2151, representing.
1309610 13105, ten (hares—No. 1150 —13066 to.
13075, ten (harts —No.
ten shares—No. 2148 —[150910 11518, "ten (hares
—No. 2147—11471 to 1148 c to
Forty Shares, were forwarded for London by the
ship Wilha-ri Penn, which having been rxptured,'
. said certificates are supposed to be loft ; for the rs
ncwal of which, applicnjio-rf will be made to the
Board of tht said company.
Daniel Neal Lifter.
may 1 *<l6w i
FOR SALE,
A Black Man,
WHO has five years and a half to fcrvc, is a 1
good coachman, an exceflcnt wiff&r, and
h ti-bern accuflonicd to marketing for a family—
ageabout thirty two year . For fu-ther parti
culars, apply at the ofiicc «f Gaz»t:c.
u&J is- §
1
i • F&R SALE,
800 pieces of Sail Cloth
id tons of Shc«*t Lead
Apply to
Richard D. Arden»
No. 26, North Froilt street.
i«»e 7 $
John Miller, Jun.
NO. 8, CHLSNUT STREET,
Has received, per the Richmond from Calcutta
A Quantity of Sugar.
Weft India Muicovado quality, which he offers for
sale very low for ca(h or at 60 days.
HE HAS ALSO ON HAND,
A variety of British Dry Goods,
which he -will dispose of on the molt reasonable
terms.
India Calicoes by the Bale, &c. S:c.
June 5 dtf
—" ' TO LET, ~~
The House No. 83,
' Chefnut, a few doors below Third street.
It is in good repair, and a capital Stand for any
kind of bufinofs. Apply as above.
June 5. §
Bourdeaux Brandy,
Claret in hh<J».
White wine in half hhds.
Claret >
Frontinac ( W ; nc , in Cafi .,.
Sautcrne (
LUndi J
Red Skins
ALSO,
76,000 lbs. Jacquemel Coflee.
60,000 Bourbon do.
114 Boxesof white Havanna Sugar—and
jo Hog&eads of Tobaoco
poa SAI.E BY
JOHN SAVAGE*
june a • dtf
Now Landing,
AtMefirs. Willing flt Francis's wharf, about
65,000 lbs. Coffee,
la Hogflieads, Tiercis* Barrels, and Bags,
for aa lb ey
SAMUEL MATS,
No. 89, South Third Stt«et
june 1 §6t
Choice St. Croix Sugars,
EOR SALE BY
James Tard.
ALSO,
A few ylipes of remarkably fitie Madeira Wine,
tit for immediate use, and at a reduced price.
June 4 diot
Robert Smith & Cc.
No. 58, South Frent-ftreet.
HAVE received by the Ihip BeNidere from
London, a quantity of Ruflia Goods, con
fiftin of Diapers,
And by the Fanny, arrived at from
GTafgow, an aflortment of Sco!fh gQo,^s f
They have .also on harid. jndia, Nankeens,
Luteflrings, and a variety of India Muslins.
may 2.1 *V3 W
FOR SALE
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
The of the Ship Richmond,
Captain'Hathaway, from Bengal,
! Gurrahs, wkite Guziies
; blue .IGuzzenaha I
JSahuns ;
i 'Corahs ' , Mow. Saunas j
'Man-.6d dies Pqriialcoes
'Tiiktries Baft as
Romalls Cofias
Poreas , j
Chintz Malda \
Saul Gazzies CnrwaK Cloths
An elegant ajjortmcnt of
Madras Handkerchiefs
Benares &OGAR
COTTON and GINGER
Mordccat Lewis.
fciay If. daw awiw
• 100 Barrels ) of Beef of baft put
50 half Barrels > Up with carefor long voyages.
Joo Barrels of Connecticut Pork.
50 Barrels of C.onne&icut Tongues.
WINE S.
35 Pipes of Madeira Wine
30. Pipes of Port
30' half calks of Sherry
30 QaJks of ,Li(bon
300 Cases of French Claret, of excellent
quality.
800 Barrels of Scraped FLOUR,
fOO .Barrels of Condemned, and
20 Boxes of best Durham Mustard.
For Sale by
John Skyrin,
Landenberger s IVharf.
may 4 eodtf
Salisbury Etfate.
THE Subscriber, proposing to contra# his bufj
nef«, offers this Estate for fate, on maderati
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air .Furnaces,
. a complete Boreing Machine, and a veryigood gritt
Mill, with two pair of stones ; also a good Forge, all
, in pcrfeft repair, as are all the Water Works connett
ed wiihrthefe 'various branches. Tfee Air Furnaces
were lately bu'dt-fof the purpose of calljhg, Cannon
tor this State.—There are about two thousand acres
Qf'Land, onehalfof which isundei wood, theother
■ very fine arable Lahd, producing the bed Hay and
, Puftore. The Cannon lately manufactured there,
fujjy proves the excellency of the metal, whiffy is
(uperior to any in this country, anc\ probably, equal
to any in the World ; for not one o»f fixty-uine gtns
lately made, although tome of the 24 were bored
ifjjti 3Z .pounders, have failed on proving. The.fiLu
ation is very eligible, particularjy for this branch,of
manufacture, and a pjace of arms lying in the state
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from several land*
ings on the Hudlon's river, an 4 haviug every advan
tage that can rcfult from a plenty of water issuing
from a large natural pond* very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
, ufeful purpo(es. The puifchafer cari beaccommodat
e4,wiih all tfye flock and utensils, and hav-e pofiefiton
on or before the firll of June next, and preparation
may be made in the mean time for going into Blail im
mediately thereafter, for every pan will be delivered
|in good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. &e. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
' phia ; David Brooks, Efq.,one of the Repre{eoxat*ives
in Coilgrcfs for this State ; Mr, Watciman, on
thlpremifes, or tothipropiietorin New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSONf
Dee. t. 3a wti
FOR SALE, .
.. Two three story Brick Houses
With convcnieht stores, wharf, frc. fituateon
Water street, between Mulberry an J Saflafras
Street®, containing in front on Water ftreet-fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth eslt
ward ntnety-five feet, then widening to the.
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
Save the convenience of a pul)l r c alley adjvin
ifig on thpttorth fide, and area very defirablelit
uation for a a merchant, fiouv fa<flor, or others
who may have occalion for liorage of goods
This property will be fold on very reasonable
terms for cafti. For further information apply
to the printer. April 5 * mkwtf
Treasury Department,
March 19, 1798..
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
'"r H A'Tpropolah will be received at theOlftceof
X the Secretary-os the Trtafury until tjie-expi
ration of the isth day of July next ensuing, for
thefupply of all rations which may be required
for thcufe of the United State#, fromthefirlt day cf
Qiflober 1798, to the thirtieth clay of September
1799, both days inclusive, at the places anil within
the diftriw! hereafter mentioned, viz. At Ofwego;
at Niagara; at Frefque Isle; at Michilimackinac ;
at Fort Franklin ;at Pittsburgh ;at Le Beuf; at
Cincinnati; at Greenville; at Picque Town and
Lcramie's Store; at Fort Wayne; at Fort Defi
ance ; at any place below Fort Defiance on the Mi
ami River to Lake Erie ; at Fort Knox and Oua
tanoa on the River Wabafli* at Maffac; at any
place or places on theeaQ fide of the Rivej Missis
sippi above the mouth of the River Ohio, and up
on the Jlln.ois River ; at any place or places on the
east fide of the Miffiflippi River below the mouth
of the River Ohio to the southern boundary of the
Statp of Kentucky, and within the said State; at
Knoxvillc, Tellico Block House, and.at all other
k'ofts in the State of Yenne/Tee* at i\ay place or
places on the ea(l fide of the Rivw Miffiflippi, be
low the southern boundary of the State of Tenuef
fee, to thefouthera boundary of the United States.
If supplies ft all be required for any posts or
places not mentioned i;i this notice,all fuchlupplies
fiiall be furniftied at prices proportioned to those t9
the polls before recited, as may be agreed 011 bc»
tween the United States and the contra (SI or.
The rations tobe supplied to confili of th* fol
lowing articles, viz.
One poynd of bread or flour
One ppur.d of beef or twelve ounces of pork
or. bacon
Half a jill of rum, brartdy or whif-"J
ky, one quart of Salt, two quarts ( h un d
of vinegar, two pounds of soap, C f at j ons !
on® pound 9f can4fcs J
.The rationsare to be furnished in such quantities,
as that there Iball at all times during the lai4 term, j
be fufTici«nt for the conluinptioji of the trrtops at ;
Michilimackinac, Detroit', Nfcgara, and Ofwego, j
for the term of lis months in advance, and at each j
of the other posts, for, {he term of at JeaJt three ,
months i;i advance, in. goqdagd wholesome provi
sions, if the fame fliall i>e required. It is t» be un
derflow!, that the contraAor is to be at the ex- j
p nee and risk of ifiuing the fuppliesto the troops \
atcacb pott, and that all lofles sustained by/the. de- 1
preda'.ions of an enemy, or by means of the j
troopv or the United States, fhallbe paid for at 1
the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on i
the depoficions of two or more persons of credita
ble charaiflers, and the certificate of a commission
ed ofiicer, ascertain itig the circuraftanees of the
loss and the am ount of the article* for which com- ,
pcr.fntion shall he claimed.,
The priviledge is referred to the United States
of requiring that none of the fupplie3 which may
be furnithed under thepropofed contraA, fiiall be
lffued, until the fuppiies which haveor.may.be
furhilhed under the contrail now in force have
been cciifumed
OLIVEJt WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury. ;
march 17. aawtijjy
FOR SAfcEji. 1
B Y T E SUBS C B Z *,•,
50 Cherts of Prime Teas,
CONSISTING of Jmpejial, Hyson» Souchong,
HyfonSkin, Young Hyson and Bohea, jutt ar
rived in the Ships Satnufo/ijmd Ontario ; several com
plete sets of elegant China; 1000 pieces of Naukeen
of fuperiftr color and q iality; a few pieces of com
mon \tadrafi Handkerchiefs ; a large quantity ot Jn»
dia Silks, confiding of Lutdiringt, Saifuels, Pcrfians,
&c. &c, of different colors. ,• .
a lso, for sa l e—Entitled to the drawback,
5000 boxes ot Pate Grall'e Cheese
in excellent order for exportation, just received by
the (hip juno and Joseph from AmllprHam.
T. B. Free : an,
No. 39 South Trant-ftreet, or at his counting
house,
may3o. - . r * •' ' mf6t
Mi,U,tary Colours,
FAINTED ON SlLK—vv
George Rutter & Co.
Portrait and Ornamental Painters,
IN a stile which will endure, the hardftiips of the
weather withoutinjmyri. and which for neatness
and exaAitudc of colouring cannot be surpassed in
this city.
FLAGS and DRUMS
Furnithed with dispatch, en the moll moderate
terms.
Portraits, Ornamental Paintings, Signs,
fire buckets, &c. accomplished in that superb stile
of modern elegance, which, Mr. Rtttter fledges
himfell from io years experience iu this city will
meet the entire approbation of hii friends and the
public.
Is the Military Lin£>
A variety of specimen's may be seen at their
Painting Room, Norris's Court , back of the Naw
Library.
may 3 d6w
NOTICE.
HAVING obftrve4 an aJyertifamert of C.
Gullagcr, in terms derogatory of our pro
feflional abilities, we have to requell public
not to be imposed upon by
decide upon t!>q merits of each by a comparifpn ot
the work executed by bot.h, as it is a rao,de almost
universally adopted by then}, to ta
lents ©f ellablimcd artists, with a view of deceiv
ing the public, and engrolUng that bufinefj.which
their profeffional knowledge in no wife entitles
them to. Well knowing that public opinion mull
govern, we flatter ourselves that the work execut
ed by us will convince them of our great luperio
rity over Mr. Oullager in every branch of por
trait and ornamental painting, andfhew thenecef
fity of judging for themfclves.
N. B. In future no attention will be paid to thi
felf-flattcrirg advertisements of Mr G.
Any person wilhing a supply of FLAGS and
DRUMS will please apply to Geo. Rutter and
Co. Norris' Court, or Henry Frailet, Germax
town. s6w may 8.
To be Sold, in Burlington,
Immediately oppofit* the wharf un the river De
laware,
A Large new two flory brick Houfc, and Lot
sixty icet in front and one hundred deep—
The House consists of two large, one 17
by 31, the other 19 by 21, an entry in the mid
dle, three large bed chambers and one small one,
w.ejl fiuiihetf garrets, a large kitchen, pantry, store
room,,&c. with,good cellrrs,. good watc* and gar?
c{en, all new, well linilhed and in perfect order,
immediat.-e pofTeflion will be given. Enquire of
Edward Bonfall & Co. or of Francis Durdin, Bur
lington, who will inform the price and shew the
premises. may 14 3taaw
Now Opening,
At Will i.lm M' L.v w s Saddle Manufaclory,
No. 72, Chefnut Street,
A general afibrtment of Horfernan's
Pillols, direA from the VlanufcuSurers iaLondou.
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holllers, j.aif Covers, Light
Horfernan's C\ips, Swords, .artou.h B xcs, Va
lices $ a dale Bajj.s, Porttnanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, C&fi&ge aii« Chtrir Hawefe', &c,
april 9 def
fIiEASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH 1, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IS p.srJusn:? of the Ail of paffed on the Cxth day of July one thousand seven hundred and
nrcety-fcven, e tit-led " An Art Jaj'ing duties on Stamped Vellum, l'arehnient and Paper", and the
Ad paOed on the lifn-enth day of Dec.mhcr, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, entitled
u An .\vt to poftponefor a limited time the commencement of the duties imposed by the A& enti
tled " An Aft laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Piper", that from and after the
fitft day ps July enfaing, thsfcverai Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and collec
ted throughout the United Statts.
For every Ikin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or Iheet or piece of Paper, *pon which (hall be
written or printed any oi v either of the inftrumcnts ©r writingsfollowißg—to wit:
Dls Cts. | Mis.
Any Certificate of Naturalization, ----- j 1
Ar.y Licence to praiflice,oc Certificate of the or registry of
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Proflor, in any Court of the
United States, - - - 10
Prov:JiJ t that a Ccrtificite in any one of the Cqurts of the United States
for one of the laid Officer, (hall so far »s relates to the payment of the
doty aforefaid, ijc a fuflkieut admission in all the Courts of the United
States, for each and every of the said offices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, uader the seal or authority of the United States
(except for lands gram ed tor military lervices) . 4
Any exemplification or certified <;opy of any such grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military services) ... 4
Any Charter-Party, Bottomry, or Uefpondentia Bond, - I
Any Receipt or discharge for or on accountof anyLegacyleftby any Will or s
thtr inftrument, or for any (hare or part of a personal estate di
vided by force of any statute of diftribut!«ns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the perfjn dcceafe'd.the amount whereof (hall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and (hall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, *- -
When the amount thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
(hall not exceed five hundred dollars, ...
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional sum of ,
Any Policy of Infurante or inftrament in nature thereof, on any snip, veffd or
goods insured fromojie diliritfl to another in the United States, 2 f I
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which
Insurance"is made (hall not exceed five hundred dollars, -
When the sum insured (hallexceed five hundred dollars, - t
Any Exemplification, of what nature soever, th'at shall pass the seal of any
Court, other til w such as it maybe the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furnifh for the use of the United States or fame particular (lite, - s0
Any Bond, bill single or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promiflory
note or other note, other thau any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or con;r*&> made to or with the United States or any slate, or for their
uferefpeflively, -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - I 0
]f ali»re one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars,
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, . 0
And if above one thousand dollars, r
Provided, that if any bonds ornotes Bull be payable at or within sixty days, 4
such bonds or notes (ball be fubjeil to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforel'aid —viz. - - -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 4
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollai s, I 0
If above live hundred dpllars and not exceeding one thousand dollars,
If above one thousand dollars, ....
Any Notes ifiued by the banks noyr eftiblifhed, or that may hereafter be eftab
lifhcd within the United States,' other than the not»s of such of the said Banks
as (hall agreefoc.n annual compoStion, of one percentumon theannual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders refpedlively, according to
the following scale. -----
Qn all notci not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar,
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding ooe hundred dollars,
Cn all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - ... j
On )ill cotes above five hundred dollars, - - 2
Any Protest or other Notarial adl, t" - 25
Any Letter of Attorney, exqept for an invalid penfioa,or to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
performed in the late war, i - - 2 ,
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Culloms or duties, for less than
five hundred, dollars, - - 1
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, 2
For more than two thousand dollars, - - - 2
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
If fr»m one diftriot to another diftriil of the United States, not being in the
fame Stale, .... Io
. If from.the United States to any foreign porter plaee, . .
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, jgoods or effeiSs, made in any
•afe requiwd by law, (exfcept in cases of goads and chatteU distrained for
rent or uxes, and geods taken in virtue of any legal process hy any olficer,) , 0
Any Certificate of a Share in any Insurance Company, «f a share in the Bank of
the United States, or of any State or other Bank,
II above twenty dollars and eot exceeding one hundred dollars, - I 0
If above one hundred dollars, -
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
>'■
The dutiesaforelaid will be colle&ed and received by the Supervisors, Infpe&ors aud other o(Ecer»
of Infpe&ion, in the several Diltri&s, Surveys and Divisions of the United itates, aHd by such other
perfonsas.(hall from t« time be specially appointod and employed by the Supervisors of Difiriils for
that purpofc.
HI- , 1
JheSupervifors of thefeyeral Diftrids will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and as soon as
may he prafiicable, mark or (lamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Vellum Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the fates of duties before enumerated, on payment of thefaid duties • Or
(lamped yellun), parchment and paper n.ay M the option of the Citizens of the United State,., be'ob
tained at the-rates prescribed by Jaw, by application to any Supervilor, lufpedor, Officer of (n'fpeclisn
or other person appointed for the didribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diftrids. *
GIVEN under my Hand, at Philadclpbia
the Jay, end year aimnunlhntd.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secretary of the Treafurv.
■ . .x r . v; —: _ - J i
TREASURY pE^AH'i'MENT,
March sOth. 1798.
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT byanafl of Congrcfs pafli-d on the
19th day of March, 1798, the following
alterations and amendments have been made to
the aft pafod on the 6th d,ay ps July 1797, en
titled 44 An adl laying duties on ftaraped vci
" lum, parchment and paper."
I.
The flamp duties on debentures or certifi
cates for the drawback of Customs or duties on
Imports arc repealed.
11. .
A difcQimt, at the rate of seven and one half
per Centum, will be allowed by the Supervisors
or Infpe-ilors refpeflively, to any persons other
than Officers of-the Revenue, who may pur
chase at one time or procure to be stamped, any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment or Paper, uppn
which the duties shall amount to Ten Dol
lars or upwards.
hi.
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold at
the rates prescribed by law, without any addi-'
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for Ihmpcd Parchment or
Vellum, an additional price will bq demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each fkin,of Parch
ment, or Two-Hundred Cents for each Ikin of
Vellum of medium size, which may be furniA-
at tjic expeufe of the United States and pro
portionally lefl*er/qu4Mliity.
Given under my bandy at Philadelphia, the
day and ye ir abmementioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Tre a fury.
To he Let,
(And possession given on the id of May)
A genteel three story brick House,
a 2 feet front, and 40 feet deep, with back build jigs
and prefmit in the tenure of Major Jack
son. Enquire at 187 South Third ftrect.
$
The Co-partnerfliip of the Subscribers,
TRADING UNDER THE FIRM OP
Joseph Davidson Ssf Co.
IS this day diflolved by mutual consent, all those
having claims against fakl firm, are desired to
render their accounts, and those indebted to make
payment to-jofeph- Davidfon, who is duly autho
rised to fettle tke affairs of 'he concern.-
JOSEPH J. MILLER.
JOSEPH DAVIDSON. 1
N. B. The Storei at the corner «>f Market and 1
Fourth Streets arc now to be let.—Enquire ol Jo
| feyh Davidfon.
April 36 w&sam
TO BE SOLD,
4°*9s9 acres of Land.
TN Greece County, Common wealth of Pennfyl-
X vanu, on. the wat«rs of Fish and Wheeling
Creeks and i'en Mile Run.
Thefc Lands are fertile and well timbered, and
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten years ago for
fire frilling* p £r acre ; patented early in 1787 ,ex
cept aprcs, which, were patented in 179-1;
part ot then? were purveyed in. *783. The tra<sl
is between the Obhio and.Monongahela, very con
venient to water' carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of - Walßßigton, from 14 to 16 from the
village of Greenclburgh and Wheeling.
Oa payment of on£'fourth of the purchase-mo»
ney, a reasonable credit will be given forthe refi
°ue' , Enquire of the Printer,
§
TO BE SOLD,
26,780 acres of Land,
IN the ftateof >iew York, betweerfthe
bounds of PeuQfyJvan# and the Sufquebanna
now, or late ia the townftiips of Hamdca and
Warren and of, Warren*.
1 hefe Lands, their quality and
are a very desirable obje<ffc for any man who mean*
to invell his money to advantage.
On pay/nent .of one third of the purchase mo
ney, a reasonable credit will {' e given for the reft
uc* Enquire of the Printer,
april ar.
Country Residence.
A FAMILY who live Six Miles from the City,
wilh to receive two or three genteel boatd
ers. The House is handfoimly iuruifhed; the
Gardens, Windows and Lawn are beautifully laid
out, and well {locked with the choicefl Fruit.
There arefeveral Musical Inftrumsnts, amongft
which i&a moil excellent patent Piano Forte. The
Family have a bandforre Coach, which may beat
the fcrvicc of the whole.
The Coiujh House and tables are ipoft excellent
—tne Water good—and the Air unequalled in the
environs of th* Town. ~
For particular# enquire at the office of this Ga-*
zetl€ * dtf may -16.
ADVERTISEMENT.
VJTHEREAS the fubferiber and his wife Jane
\ I Hodgkinfon, haveby mutual consent agreed
to livj fcparate and apart fr'-m each other from
bed and beard, tht-'fe are therefore to forewarn ail
pcrfons from trailing! heron my Recount, as by
contrail (he is to support herfc If for the future, and
iam determined not tu pay any debt of her con
trailing. SAMUEL HODGKINSCN.
may <Si 'jt.av/