oe m States, and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Nummx 1788.J
For Boston,
Elijah Bowen, Matter,
A fine (ailing viflel and wilt take freight low. apply
to the Master on board at Chefnut-ftreei Wharf, or
Joseph Anthony & Co.
diw
F&R SALE,
RICHMOND,
JUST arrived from the £afl
h. Indies and lying at Latimer's
Wharf.
Live Oak and Cedar and in every refpetfl as
excellent a frame, as perhaps was ever put to
gether, copper bolted and (heathed. She is 80
feet keel feet hram, 12 feet hold, 6 feet be
tween decks and will carry 4,400 barrels of
Flour.——For terms, apply to
Mordecai Lewis.
may 30 jaw
7 LANDING,
At Walnut Street Wharf, from >on hoard the
brig Amiable Matilda. William B r own,
Matter, from Bourdeaux,
Claret in hoglheads and in cases of
SUPERIOR QUALITY ,
Brandy in Pipes,
FOR SALK.
Thomas iff John Ketland.
Said Brig ibr sale,
Y »- With two pair four poundCAN
NON, and one pair 1 alb. CAR
may 29 $
For Cape Francois,
NOR TH AMERICA,
Ba'rnxs, Mafttr,
•XivuQwsXO fail in eight or ten days.—For
freight or palTage apply to
Pratt & Kintxingi
No. 9?, North Water, near Race Street.
WHO HAVt POR SALE,
Port Wine, Claret, Madder, Brimeftonc, Red
Crust Cheese, Tumblers, Ticklenburghs, Heflens,
Brown Rolls, &c. &c.
may 25 eod6t
FUR LIVERPOOL,
1 Jri TH* BHiP #
LIBERTY,
Isaac Vridsnb*rcer, Master,
good new vessel, fails well—
Lying at ClilFoid's Wharf, will fail about thetentho
next month, a considerable part of her Cargo bein
engaged*—For freight or pafTageapply to
JOHN SKYRIN,
No. 96, North Front Street.
N. B. The Liberty is intended to return one of j
the firft fall velTdsto this port.
may 29 dtf
FOR LIVERPOOL,
The remarkably tad failing Brig
PENNSYLVANIA,
■p/Jzhemah Tjtbm, matter.
tcn day®—
freght or paflige, apply to JAMES YARD.
Walnut-Jlreel IVharf
may a,; diat
For Sale, or Charter,
THE ARMED SHIP
liELVIDERE,
Jonathan Reynolds, Mafler,
LYING at Jefleand Robert Wain's
w harf, burthen 256 tons, built at
New-York, by Mr. Cheefeman in 1793, of live
oak, cedar and locufl—wa- completely coppered in
London last year with 28 ounce hard roiled navy
copper, and copper bolted. She is well known to
be-a (launch and faft failing (hip, is well found—
mounts ten carriage guns and may be sent to fcain
a few days at a very !ittl« expence. For tcrma of
charter or price on a liberal credit, apply on board
to capt. Reynold's, or at No. 26, North Front
street, to
RICHARD D. ARBEN.
WHOHAS FOR SALE ON BOARD SAID SHUP
lo Tons dry white lead
5 Tons of (hot
13 Tons rolled (heet lead
ao Balt-s Engjifh puck, aflorted numbers
10 Tons whiting ;
£jT The Ship Belvidere, if not fold or Char
tered before Wednesday next, will take freight for
London.
may 19 §
jfUSi ARRIVED,
In tfc e brigGayofo, capt. Bingham, from St. Martins
A quantity of SALT,
of an exccellent quality
A few groce Hotter Bottles, new
And twenty caflcs Vinegar
Also, FOR SALE,
Enquire of
Jehu HollingJ'worth Co.
||No. aa, Little vl'ater street, South.
aprJl ao.
TO BE,LET,
And Pojftffion given ■ Immediately.
THAT known ftawd called, Small's
ta/ern, sign of the Black horse at the east
end of Bedford. This stand is attended with
tnany advantages ; there are two houses, the
one ltone and the other frame adjoining each
o her, well linifhcd and upon a very conven ; ent
plan ; the stabling new and large and a pump at
the door—besides, there are but two taverns in
the town. The term* and time of leafing will
be made known by application to
Dr. John Atiderfotiy
of pbe fnvn of Bedford
may 11. V raa&iW
FOR SALE.
SEVERAL very elegant Situations for Sum
mer Retreats, three and a half miles from
the Court House, and on tbe Frankford Ko*d ;
the lots will be made tofuit the purchasers.
These fitujtions are confideredin point of*health
•heauty and elegance, equal to any near the city,
and the road known to be fafe and gorrd at all
seasons of the year. The title indisputable—A
plan of the grounds is in the hands of the fub
fcriher, who will make known the terms ca ap
plication to him at his office No. 124 South
Fourth Street.
ABRAHAM SIIOEMAKRR.
may a. jtaivtf
PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY EVENING, JUNE 4, 1798.
Bourdeaux Brandy,
Claret in hhdi.
White wine in half hhds.
Claret
Frontinac ( w ; net k Caftl .
bautorne (
Lundi J
Red Skins
ALSO,
76,000 lbs. Jacquemel Coffee.
60,000 Bourbon do.
114 Boxes of white Havanna Sugar—and
50 Hog (heads of Tobaaco
POX SALS BY
JOHN SAVAGE.
June * dtf
Now Landing,
AlMefTrs. Willing & Francis's wharf, about
65,000 lbs. Coffee,
In Mogfheads, Tierce, Barrels, and Bags,
SOR SALE BY
SAMUEL If ATS,
No, 89, South Third Street
june 1 §6t • '
Schuylkill PermanenFTiridge.
PURSUANT to tbe 6th fe&ion of the a«st of
Aflembly, authorizing the Governor of
this commenwealth to incorporate the company j
for eredlir.g a permanent bridge over the river |
Schuylkill, a meeting of the Stockholders is
hereby called, for th* purposes mentioned in
that fe&ion (which is hereafterpublifhed for in
formation) on FRIDAT next, the Bth instant,
at 12 o'clock at noon, at the State House. As
this meeting is very important to the interests
of the company, a punctual and general atten
dance of the Stockholder*? is earueftlv requeued.
By order sf the Diredc*rs.
RICHARD PETERS, President.
Seflion 6th, And be it further enafled by the authori
ty aforefaid, That the said President and Directors, on
their being chosen, in the firft in fiance (ha 1 call a
meeting of the Stockholders, anil that meeting may
appoint five of their number to examtn and report
tiic most eligible place or places for building the
bridge, and to treat with any body or bodies, politic
cr corporate, or iudividuals, for the purchase of their
refpe&ive rights, or any of them, to the piaca or pla
ces deemed eligible; and when the said place or places,
and 'erms on wliieh itorthevcan be purchased, a re so
reported, the said Stockholders.jor a majority of those
met, may fix on the place and terms 1 or the said
Stockholders, or a majority ot them, may at any
time agree to leave the determination, both on place
and terms, to the President and Dire&ors.
juoe 2, 1798. d6t
* FOR SALE, .
BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
50 Chests of Prime Teas,
CONSISTING of Imperial, Hyson, Souchong,
Hyson Skin, Young Hyson and Bohea, just ar
rived in the Ships Sampson and Ontario ; several com
plete sets of elegant China; 1000 pieces of Nankeen
of superior color and quality j a few pieces of com
mon Madrafs Handkerchiefs ;,a large quantity of In
dia Silks, confiding of Luteltrings, Sarfnets, Persians,
&c &c. of different colors.
a l so, for sal e—Entitled to the drawback,
5000 boxes of Pate Graffe Cheese
in excellent order lor exportation, just received by
the Ihip Juno and Joseph from .Amsterdam.
T. B. Freeman,
No. 39 South Front-street, or at his counting
house, No, 40, South Wafer-ftreet.
may 30. mf6t
A Country Seat to Let.
NEAR the Frankfvrdroad, about four and a
half miles from Philadelphia—the firuation
remarkably pleaCint and healthy. Immediate
pofl*eflion may be had—Apply at No. 144
\ South Stcond'Street.
may 4 3tawtf
TO BE SO ID, LET,
Or exchanged for property in the city of
t Philadelphia.
A Valuable Two Story Stone House, and lot
or piece of ground, in PottsTown> »n the
county of Montgomery. The house is in good
repair, and the lot made into a ufeful garden ;
there are a number of good fruit trees therein,
fr.e fitua'ion is high and healthy* and one of the
best for any kind of business in the town, pof
feflion will be given immediately—for terms ap
ply to William Nichols
No, 117, Race flreet.
may 29 . * *.s
The following Certificates of
FUNDED DEBT CF THE UNITED STATES ;
STANDING on theßooksof the % treafury, were
forwarded for London by the (hip William J
Pcnn, Captain Jofiah, which hath been captured,
and the Certificates supposed to be loft, viz : (
3164. Ba. Deferred debt, in the name of Rev. j
Edward Giddy, of Thredrea, in Cornwall, j
Great Britain, dated June 2, 1797. Certificate |
No. 10,07 a. H
801 r. ijp. Six per Cent. Stock, in the name of 4
Edward Home, of Bevis mount, Hants, Great <
Britain, dated May 30, 1797. No. 15196.
3620. 50. Deferred Debt, in the name of Will- i
iam Manning, ofOrmlby, in the county of Nor- '
folk, in England, dated July 10, 1797. No.
10199.
20183. 7a. Three per Cent. Stock, in the name 1
of Jannet Mat hew, of Upper Seymour flreet, '
London, Widow, dated OAober 31 1797. No. J
11820.
For the renewal of the above Certificates, ap
plication is intended to be made at the said office of ;
jhe Treasury of the United Stats*,—and all per- ,
sons concerned aredefired to take notice. (
ALSO—IN THE SAME VfSStL, t
Fifteen (hares Storkof the Bankof United States in 1
theuame of William Manning,of Ormfby, coun
ty of Norfolk, England, viz. Three Certificates
for five (hares each, dated January 1, 1797.
No. 25982, 25983, 25984.
For the renewal of wSich,application is meant to
be made to the said Bank of the United States, —
and all persons concerned therein arc defircd to 1
take notice* (
JN. VAUCHAN.
Philadelphia, may 4. s6w
The following Certificates of Shares
IN the North American Land Company,
on the Books of said Company in the name of 1
Dan el Lifter, of Hackney, in the county of Mid
dlefcx, England—viz. No. 2151, representing C
13096 to 13105, ten shares—No. *ls0 —1306610 1
13075, ten (harts—No. 2x49 —6 to 13065, (
ten (hares—No. 2148 —11509 to 11518, ten (hares J
—No. 2147 —11471 to 11480 —Amounting tcr t
Forty Shares, were forwarded for London by the
fti p Willian Pf.n, which having been captured,
said certificate s arefuppofed to be loft ; for the re
newal nt which, application will be made to the
Board of the said company. , J
Daniel Neal Lifter.
may I *<J6w
By John Fenno, N° ,119 Cbejnut Street.
On THURSDAY next.
The 7th ot June, at 10 o'clock in the morning,
WILL BE SOLD,
At the late Dwelling House of Suiannah
cll, at tha corner of Penn and Pine flrccts,
A VARIETT or
Houfhold Kitchen Furniture,
Among which are, a quantity of Feather Beds
and Bedding, Giver Spoons, Wearing Apparel, and
a quantity of Tavern Utcnfils, Sec. &c
CONNELLY Co. Auctioneers.
may 31. * C o 3 t
notice; ~
A LI, persons indebted to the eftateof Sufan
ah McDowel, widow, deceased are re
_ quelled to make immediate payment and all
those who have any demands agaiyft said estate,
to present their accounts duly att-fted to Patrick
11 Lineham.
Reverend Leonard Neal, )
Patrick Lineham, ) «««*"•
may 31 _ *cod3t
Collector's Office,
Philadelphia, May 15, 1798.
-•! FOR SALE AT PUBLIC AUCTION.
! A T the Cuftom-Heufe, on Friday, the sis
! ii teenth of June, 1798, the following mer
chandize, which remain in the Cuftom-lloufe
stores more than nine months, unclaimed by the
y ; owners or consignees thereof:
, r 1 (Xll) eight half faggots of steel
j s T (TD) aoa one bale firthweb
u (FL) a quantity of steel
i_ one ca k ' am P s
g C&C one cafe bobbin
If (W) one small box medicine
t _ AB 203 one matted cafe Dutch books
I&C one keg herrings
(W) one small box of samples of buttons
1 a 3 three bales girthweb
n [Vfcl'] 200 one ditto ditto
a I N] 200 on- cjitto ditto
y (No mark) eight jars olives
rt (ditto) one bundle slates
c [XSJ one small box locks dt 15 J
iI Will be fold for Cash,
At eight o'clock on the Evening of MONDAY
5 » the eleventh day of June next, at the M«r-
chants' Coffee house, in Philadelphia, if
not previously dityofed of at pri
vate Tale,
: e THE FOLLOWING TRACTS Or
Valuable patented LAND,
In the county of Glynn, in the (late of Georgia,
and the counties of Bath and Randolph in the
state of Virginia,
7000 acres at the head of St. Simon's Sound and
confluence of Turtle and Alatamaha rivers, ad
;» ' joining the common j of the town of Brunfwick.
41000 acres on the Great Satilla and on the head
waters of the Little Satilla, adjoining lands of
n Wm.M 4 lntofh, John Howell, & FerdinandO'Neal.
25000 acres on Great Satilla, adjoining lands of
Freeman Lewis and John Howell.
' 4400© acre" in Bath county, oji both fides of
Green Briar River, adjoining lands of Jacob War
rick, Daniel M'Cullumand johnDilley, including
3©oo acres of prior surveys.
y 41000 acres in Bath county, on the east fide of
Cowpaflure River, and on both fides of the wag
gon road leading from the warm fpringsto Staun
ton, including 5000 acres of prior surveys
40000 acres in the county of Randolph, on Bu
chanan River, adjoining lands of Thomas Wilson,
and including'4sßß acres prior surveys.
Cowpafture River/on the waters of said river, and
* oi Calfpafture River, adjoining lands of Joseph
e Grubb, and incluping 5000 acres prior surveys.
* The Georgia lands will be fold in tra<sls of one
thousand acres each, the others in the quantities
and tra&s abov# defefibed.
Persons desirous to examine the titles and drafts
f of the above mentioned land, will call for that
purpose on Benjamin R. Morgan, at No. 41,
t Arch street ; proposals of purchase may be made
to cither of the fubferibers.
T. FITZIMON.S,
No. Chefnut ftreec.
' B.R.MORGAN,
No. 41, Arch street.
JEREMIAH PARKER,
may 14. No. 9, North Eighth street.
By virtue of a decice of the honorable the high court
of Chancery of Maryland, the fubferiber will fell
at Public Sale, on the premises, or» Monday, the
25th of June next at 11 o'clock in the forenoon,
T 'HAT valuable and well known Lot of Ground,
A No. 53, and part of No. 54, property
r of Nicholas Sluby, merchant of ihiscity, situated on
Thames-street, in that part of Baltimore city, called
t Fells-Point, containing 58 square perches, with all
the buildings and impiovements thereon. There are
' eretted on this valuable property, fcveral large and
commodious btuk Warehouses, capable of contain
' ing from 15 to ao,oco barrels of flour, with a frame
> shed adjourning thereto, fufticiently capacious to
hold 1000 hoglhead of Tobacco; in perfc6i fafety
'fcom the weather. From this well known property
extended into the deepest water in this harboi,an
extenfiveand well conftr*£ted wharf.boundmg cn the
water 600 feet and upwards, and capable of receiv
ing ships of any burthen at the lowest tides. From
the many advantages lhis property is known to possess,
it is esteemed equal if 1 ot superior, in point of com
mercial benefit, (o any in this city, and mull be a de
firableob e£l to inclined to purchase so valuable
an estate. It is unnccellary to fay more on this f»ib
-1 jest, as those intending to purchase, will have an op
portunity of viewing the premises previous to the
day of sale.
The terms on which the above property is fold,
are, that the purchaser ftnll give approved negotiable
notes, with fecurtty to thetrullee tor the payment of
ore half the purchase money with within
three months, and the refuse with intercft, within
fix months from the davos sale.
SAMUEL MOALE.
m.|v »8. dta^thje.
TO Bh. SOLD,
By John Nixon ts? Co.
A few hhJs of excellent St. Croix SUGAR and
RUM, which will be landed at Will ng* and Fran
cis' whajf rext Monday, the 4lft instant.
may 16. djt eotf
Prilon Manufadlory.
TO. 1 ? SJLE,
At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of. all sizes, lrom sdy to lody
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and card Tack*
, Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakers and Sadicrs Thread
Also—-Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's table,
tomb and heaa Hones, hearths, chimney pieces,
flabs, facia, window heads, fills, &c.
All whic'i may he had on rcafonable terms.
Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders from a diftancc, directed to Daniel Tho
mas, agent for the prifon,]will be attended to.
Decembers. " mth6m
POST-OFFICE, PHILADELPHIA,
22nd May, 1798.
ESTABLISHMENT OF the MAILS.
The Eaffern Mail
Will be closed on Mondays
Tuesdays at 12
Wednesdays J o'clock
k j noon,
Friday* and ! and
Saturdays J
Arrive at Philadelphia on Tuesdays j
Wednesdays | 9
FnJa >' 5 I A M
Saturdays & ,
Mondays J
A Mail for New-Haven and Boflon will be
clofcd every day, (Sunday excepted) at twelve
o'clock (noon).
A. J3. The Mail for the Poft-townson the main
line east of New-York* as far as Bojlcn* will
be doled every Tuesday, Thursday" and Sat
urday with the Eastern mail, and return with
the fame every 1 Monday, Wednesday and
Friday.
The Southern Mail,
Will be closed on Mondays at past
Wednesdays >7 o'clock
Fridays 3 a.m.
Arrive at Philadelphia Tuesdays 1 at \ part
Thursdays > 9 o'clock
Saturdays j A.
A Mail for all offices on the Main Line be
tween this and Alexandria, will be closed every
day, (Sunday excepted} at half past 7 oclock
' A. M.
A Mail for Winchester, Virginia, will be clos
ed every Thursday, at halt past 7, a. m. and
Fridays, half an hour before sunset.
N\B. 1 he mail forwtlte post-towns on the main
line through North-Carolina, South-Carolina
and Georgia as far as Savannah,will be clofcd
with the Southern mails from ift May to ift
November, every Wednesday and Friday, &
from Ift November to Ift May, on Mondays
and Fridays. The mails for all the other
post-towns in North-Carolina, South-Carolina
and Georgia, every Friday, at half paftfeven
o'clock, a. M.
The Mail jbr the Eajlern- Shore of Maryland,
Will be closed every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday with the Southern mail, and arrive eve
ry Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday with the
fame.
The Mail for New-Caflle, Cant well's Bridge,
Duck-Creek, Dover, Frederica, Milford,
George-town and Dags-borough, Delaware ;
Trap and Snow hill, Marylaifld ; Horn-Town,
Accomack C. H. and Northampton C. H. Vir
ginia,
Will be closed every Monday, WednefiJay
and Friday, at half an hour before sun-set, and
arrive at Philadelphia, every Tuesday, Thurs
day and Saturday, at eight o'clock, a.m.
The Mail for Dowingstown and Lancafler,
Pennsylvania,
Will be closed every Monday, Wednesday
and Friday, at fcalf an hour before sun-set, and
arrive at Philadelphia, every Wednesday, Fri
day and Monday, at eight o'clock, A. m.
The Mail for Columbia, York-Town, Carlijle,
Shippenjburg, Chamberfburg, Bedford, Som
erfpt, Greenjburg, and Pittfjurg, Pennsylva
nia ; ond the pojl-torjtis in Kentucky and Tcn
nefjee,
Will be closed every Friday, at half an hour
before sunset, and arrive at Philadelphia every
Friday morning, at 3 o'clock, a. m.
The Mail for Potts-town, Reading, Lebanon
and Hatrifhurg, Pennsylvania,
Will be closed every Tuesday and Thursday,
at sun-set, and arrive at Philadelphia, every
Tuesday and Thursday, at 10 o'clock, a.m.
A Mail for Cariifle,
Will he closed every Tuesday, with the mail
for Harrifburg.
The Mail Jor Miller s-Town, (Mifflin county)
Mifflin 7own, Lewiflown, Alex
andria, Centre Furnace, Belle font, Milefhurg
Aarorfhurg and Mifflinjbwg, Pennsylvania,
Will be closed on l uefday the 29th of May,
at sunset, and afterwards, every second Tuesday.
The Mail for Sunbu y, Northumberland and
Lewifourg, P nnfylvania,
Will be closed every Thurjday, at sun-set, and
arrive at Philadelphia, every Tuesday at 10
o'clock; a.m.
The Mail for Plumflead, Bethlehem, Eaflon and
Wilkjbarre, Pennsylvania; Pitt's-Town,
fohnfonburg, Sparta, Newton and Hamburg,
New Jer% ; Gofhen, iyard's-bridge, New
burgh and Kingston, New-York,
Will be closed evwry Thursday, at sun-set,
and arrive at Philadelphia, every Tuesday at 10
o'clock, a. M.
The Mail fur Woodbury, Sweedsborough, IVoods
town, Sahm and Bridgetown, W N Jerley,
Will be closed every Wedrtefday, at % o'clock
p. M, and arrive at Philadelphia, every Wednes
day, at q o'clock, A. M.
The Maii ftr Atfion and Tuckerton, N. Jerfe\,
Will be closed every Weduefday, at 4 o'clock
P. M. and arrive at Philadelphia, every Wed
nesday, at % o'clock, a. m.
ss* In this advertisement I have marked the
times at which ietters mull be left at the office to
ensure their in the Mail of the day^as all
letters are to be marked— accounts of them enter
ed in a book, and tranferipts of those accounts
made out to fend to the refpeclive pofl-majlers.
As there are fevsral places of the fame nirae
in the United States, the meichants and others
are requdfled'to be very particular in the direc
tion of their letters; difti nguifbtng the States,
and where it world otnerwifebc doubtful, the
Counties, in which those places are fuuated—
and when letters are not for a post town, the
nearest poft-rown to the place ought to be men
tioned. ROBERT PATTON,p«fI mafler.
may 30 * eod^t
The following Certificates
OF Funded Dchr an«i Dank of United States
Stock, were forwarded from England .per
.the Countess of LeictAer Packet, in the nth
month, 1797. which vcflei has been captured,
and the Certificates supposed fob* loft.
4000 dollars per cent. Stock, ftandiag on the
books of the Treasury, in the name of Bird Savage
and Bird Certificate no 189, dated July 19th,.'96.
Ten Shares Stock of the Bank of United States
in the name of Miller, Hart Co. of London,
in one Certificate, No. 26067, dated the ift day
of January, 1707.
for the renewal of which certificates, applica
tion is intended to he made nt the Office of the
Treasury of the United Spates, and at th" Bank of
United States ; of which all persons intereftcd
therein, arc defcre 1 to take notice.
JOHN WARDER.
Philadelphia, 5 m«. I*9B.
SlVjin
\VOLVME XIII.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Wednesday, May 16.
(Continued from Saturday's' Gazette.)
Mr. Sitgreaves believed that much time
would not be necessary to rtiew that the ar
guments of his colleague arc not only falla
cious, when feparateiy considered, but that
they are at war with each other. At one
time he raises constitutional doubts, and jus
tifies them on the preemption that these vo
lunteer corps are to be considered as militia ;
and in anotlier part of his argttmtnr he conli
ders them as dangerous, because they will
form a flanding army, and a standing army of
the worst kind. Thus, changing his princi
ples to suit his purpose, he finds it equally
easy to prove thenvone thing, or the other, or
both, or neither. To arguments, such as
these, it is iutticient to answer, that, if the
volunteers- are militia, the considerations of
dangerandinexpediencedo not apply to them;
and it they are a handing army, the conftitU'
tional doubt must bent an end.
It was in this way that the arguments of his
colleague were in oppolitien to each other ;
taken separately, it could be demonstrated
that they are as fallacious, as they are con
tradictory.—lie had firft told the committee
that the objedl of this bill, which is to enable
the government to avail itfelf of the general
enthusiasm, and to bring into the service o£
the country its young and active citizens,
might as well be attained by accepting the
service of the volunteer companies, who un
der the existing militia laws are already arm
ed, and clothed, and equipped, and are at
tached te the eftablilhed regiments of militia.
Yet he had himfelf, in other parts of his
speech, when he had a different point to
prove, pointed out very etfential features of'
distinCtion between these and the volunteer
corps contemplated by the present bill. In
the firft place, the President is not authorized
either by the general militia law or by the aCt
oflaftfeflion for putting 80,000 in requili tion r
to require or to accept the actual service of a
ny body of militia for a longer term than three
months on one tour : whereas the volunteer*
corps, whom the President would .be au
thorized to accept, might be calle upon to
do military duty, at any time within two years
from their tender of service, and for any term
not exceeding three years—Again, the power
I of the President to call olit the- militia is re
j ftridted to the cases of infiwreCtion, of actual
invasion, or imminent danger of invasion
whereas he would, by this bill, be empower
i ed to call the volunteers into actual service,
! whenever ** in his opinion the public, intercft
fliall require"—Thus, in two very important
and essential points, will these volunteer corps
differ from the ordinary militia ; and of courts
it is obvious that the objects of this bill can
not be attained by the existing militia laws.
It remained, therefore, only to enquire?
whether the gentleman's arguments as to th£
expediency of the meafufe were any better
founded. Mr. S. understood the objection*
on this score, to be that the proposed bill will
bring; together a corps of rich men, who fiiali
constitute a military association to be placed
at the disposal of the President of the United
States j and a body thus conftru£ted his col
league stiles a (landing army of the worst kind.
The two parts of the objection arc that it will
be a military association of the rich, and that
this aflociation will be at the disposal of the Pre -
Jident. On the firft point, the ability c/f the
persons who fliall compose the volunteer
corps, to arm, clothe, and equip thenifelves
at their own expcnce, is considered as an evi
dence of wealth ; and the poffeflion of wealth
is irifid ioufiy represented as au evidence of
hostility to the liberties of the people : a mi
litary alT'ocjation is denounced as dangerous to
the constitution and laws, because it fliall be
composed of men poffefling that property
which is the strongest and aeareft bond of
their connexion with the community, the
firmed pledge of their attachment to the hap
piness and profptrity of the country; that
property, the complete protection and enjoy
ment ps which can only be secured by a free
constitution, and by wife and good laws ad
ministered with jufticc and impartiality—Yet
such a body of citizens, collected for the de
fence of the country against foreign enemies,
in a season of danger, under the constituted
authorities ps the nation, is branded by his
colleague with theodiousepithet of a (landing
army —a standing army of the worst kind.—
Mr. S. could confidently appeal to the judg
ment, as well as the feelings of the committee,
to pronounce on arguments such as these, and
however well they be calculated to inflame a
mob, he was well a (lured they Could produce
no effect where they were now used. Shall
it be Paid, because a citizen is able' to arm,and
clothe, and equip himfelf for military service,
that he is dangerous and inimical to liberty ?
His colleague did notappeartq be aware how
many of our citizens this denunciation would
include. He did not recoiled that it would
apply with sis much force, to all the uniformed
militia companies, from one end of the con
tinent to the other, as to the volunteers de
figncd by this bill • that it would embrace
thole very militia companies, whose services
he himfelf had recommended to aceepr, and
who have been associated under the
militia laws ; that in fact it would include
the whole body of the qiilitia of the union,
whose duty it is by law to provide their own
accoutrements. —His colleague had indeed
intimated a diftin&ion by an expreftion calcu
lated to give an idea that the volunteers are
to be made up of merchants and Thi
insinuation, used merely ad caprandum, is
known by every body not to be founded in
fait; the volunteer companies, established by
law, and attached to every regiment of mili
tia in the United States, are known to be com
posed, with very few exceptions, of the sub
stantial yeohianry of the country, of citizen*
who will net be pleased to hear that, because
they have been ableand have had spirit enough
to uniform and equip themselves, they are
therefore enemies to the liberties of their
country: —InfaCt, it would not be easy to
conjecture any juftifiable motive for the insi
nuation of his colleague on the fubje&of the
merchants and lawyers : was it designed to
intimate that none but merchants and lawyers
have the means and the spirit to tender tUeir
services to the country in the hour of danger >
The other classes of citizens will not be flat
tered by such an inlinr.ation. Was it design
ed to imprefc a belief that the commercial
men and theßiembcrs of the learned | iofcl
lions were less attached to the constitution and
the lav. s than their fellow citizens ' In th.^Jtry it by the eonfliwtttm of the.Umted State* In
placea at the difpolal of the President who is p'
com lunoer inchief of the tandii'id naval for- le
ces, aiid of the ui'litia w lien called into actual in
ferv ce. The law could make no other dif- •
portion of the volunteer corps ; and the ob- h
je'tien was pointed iga.nTi any military efta- '■
blilhmentof any fort : Its balis was a distrust h
of the PTPfidrnr as one of the conttituted au- e
thormes of the country. But after having i)
heard the gentleman denounce all, who are a- »
ble ts equip themlelves forferviee, as unfit to 11
be trailed with the defence of the country, it c
was not liirprizing to hear him denounce the %
President as unfit to be trolled with the con
duct of this defence. ®
For himfelf, Mr. Sitgreaves could discover >«
in these objedtiors nothing but the spirit of 1
determined undiftinguilhing oupolition : It T>
mull be remembered, when the houle was en- c
gaged in the difcuflion ot measures for mari
tr,,ir defence, the gentlemen who opposed a
those niealures told us they would agree to a- c
ny propositions which Ihould (be calculated
for the defence of the territory of the United I
States ; yet now, when it is proposed to pre- a
pare for the defence of the territory, the pro- I
inife is forgotten or abandoned, and we are c
encountered with as many objections, and dif- t
Acuities,and embarratlinents as before. When t
it is proposed to raise regular troops, wc are *
threatened with the expence ; and when itis t
proposed to call into ferviee a body of volun- c
teers, who will fove to the country the ex- '
pence of equipments, of bounty, and various 1
other charges which are incident to the railing '
of a regular army, we are told that this saving '
is dangerous to the liberties of the people, <
and that it is arrairg iwe portion of the citi- 1
zensagairitt the reft—His colleague is neither -
willing to pay for a navy, nor an army, nor to ;
trust the defence of the country to its own ci- <
tizens. He denounces the rich as dangerous, 1
and he will not pay those who are unable to
equip rhemfelves All the terrors ot a (land
ing army are conjured up to prevent an em- '
bodying of the citizens, while in the fame
breath he conqedes expressly, that a standing 1
army cannot yet be a cause of alarm, and that 1
America, secure in her attachment to law
and liberty, would as yet have nothing to ap- 1
prehend from one—lt was tor his colleague '
to reconcile luch paradoxes—it was for the I
committee to determine on the success with
which they had been urged.
Mr. Otis (aid, he was extremely affefted,
though not much surprized, at the opposition
made to this feClion of the bill. Ihe Condi
tution of this country, in which all had been
taught to confide, as the great fecttrity to
our rights, is upon all occaliors introduced as
a (tumbling block in the difcudions of this
Hole, and i;Vftead of forming any fate rule
<4f conduit, it proves a mere cobweb, a mere
jaraon of political maxims, and is the foun
dation of sophisms in almolt every debate.
What is the objections of the gentleman
from Pennsylvania to this feClion of the bill t
It is, if he underltood him rightly, thatthele
Volunteers partake in some measure of the
qualities of militia, and, in ojhers, of aftand
ing army, and in some others differ from ei
ther, and that if the seCtion was agreed to as
it (lands, every conflitutional provilion with
telpeCt to the appointment of militia officers
will be violated. An answer had already been
given, which he thought plain and cpnclu
five, viz. that these volunteers will not come
tinder the denomination of militia, but of the
Handing army. The striking characterise
difference is this, that militia are bound
to serve by the laws of the country, without
any respect ta private content, and the vol
untoers will be bound only by contrail; they
will confifl only of those who come fornard
to defend theTr'country. As far astelates to
the conllitutional objection, therefore, there
is an endof it. Indeed, gentlemen themlelves
did not teem much to te'iy upon it.
But the gentleman from Pennsylvania fays,
that every conflitutional provision refpefting
the militia may be evaded, if these volun
teer corps are thus admitted into the ferviee,
and the whole body of militia may become
volunteers, and those volunteers form an ira
lnenleHanding frmy, under the command of
the Prelidem of the United States, which
might overturn the rights and liberties of the
people of this country. There could be no
quedion that every institution might be abu
sed. No doubt this House might atany time
vote to raise an army equal to all the militia,
continue it in force longer than the Conditu
tion has directed, and confnine all the re
sources of the community in support of it;
but because Congress pofleffes this sovereign
power, does it follow that they will abufeit f
The cafe itated by the gentleman Irom Penn
sylvania is an extreme cafe, and therefore
ought to form no objection to this mealure.
The whole fnbjeCt is under confideration —
the number may be limited, or the time re
ltriCted, without affecting the general princi
ple of the bill ; and it is only to answer efpe
ciil purpose that the gentleman confied his
argumnts to particular clauses of it. It was
dated by the gentleman from Pennsylvania,
that 110 pofliblc advantage could be derived
from the plan proposed by this feition, but
that many inconveniencies may arise from it.
He fays no advantage can refillt from it, be
cause there are many volunteer corps in the
militia which want filling up, and that these
young men might enter into them, and the
President would then accept them in the form
of militia. In inAver to this, he would ask
the gentleman what he would do in thole
ltates where there are 110 volunteer corps, and
consequently none of these vacancies? And
so far from this kind of corps exiltiiig in all
the dates, they are in some of them very much
tiifcoaintenanced, and he did not understand
that corps of this kind had received any kind
of laiidlion from the Legislature of the State
of Pennsylvania. He himfelf believed that
many advantages would be derived to the
country from the acceptance ol the ferviee of
these young men. The flower of our Youth,
taken from all clafles and profedions, being
ready at a moment's warning to defend the
country, mult prove tli# moll effectual and
cheip lecurity we can poflibly have against
tiny attack which may be made upon us.—
Emulous of out-doing each other in disci
pline, a military fervor will be excited inthe
country which could not be raised by means
of the militia fydem alone, and tliey will be
ready to repelinvalion, or to engage in any o
ther ferviee which the public fatety may re
quire. And if nobody else did it, he would
move to drike out the clause rcltriCling the
tife of these volunteers to the date in which
they reside, or in an adjoining ilat«.
But, in order to alarm the committee, the
gentleman from Pennsylvania had called these
Youth an association of wealthy armed indi
viduals; but Mr. O. hoped the committee
would not be alarmed by founds. It would
doubtlef* be a military aflbciation. So is the
militia of the country. But we dand in need
of the ailidance of these brave Youth, and in
dead of being frowned upon, their alibciation
ought to becherifited and encouraged. Does
not tile militia, fxid Mr. O. con(id of citizens
vrho arm tltcmielve-' It certainly dees—
therefore no proof of wealth results lrom this,
for every soldier in the militia is as much a
man of wealth «s a volunteer ef the Corps pro
posed to be raised. Yet the idea of the opu
lence of these individuals had been held out
in order to make this institution odious.
• But did the gentleman suppose-that none
but the sons of the wealthy will turn out it*
defence of their country I Does he consider
himfelt as the protector of the poor, or their
enemy—does he mean, by faying this, to fa--
lyrize orto panegyrize them? His own idea
was, that citizens of all descriptions, yeo- j
manry, manufacturers and tradesmen, would
come forward and join these defenders ef their
tountry.
But it is said there is no limitation to this
bill; that the Executive may accept or rejeel
whom he pleases. Does not the President do
the fame at present, through the medium of
recruiting officers f And cowld this be con
ceived a dangerous power? Certainly not, as (j,
he could have no rule but this, to accept of
all who 4rc willing and able to serve theiT 0 ,
country. at<
But it is alledged that this force will be a c ;
formidable danding army. Here again founds
are to intimidate us. He never heard that a t(]
(landing army was dangerous to the liberties
of a country except in time of peace, and
that when an army is made up, not of citizens,
out of the banditti of the community. But Q|
we ai'e not now in a date of peace, but of ac
tual war. It is true the country is not inva- y ,
ded, but he believed a long period would a
not elapse before an invalion takes place,
when it might be too late to raise a body of C(
men for our defence. He hopid, therefore, ( j
the President would have authoritv to accept
of thelervice of these young inen, who, be- .
ing taken from the bofpm of their families
and friends, could not be supposed to form
an army dangerous to the liberties of the
country; nor did he think insinuations of this j.
kind ought to be urged.
Mr. O. remarked, that when he said we
are in a6tual war, he did not speak figura- c
tively, but literally. War is not declared, |?
but it is made upon us, and it is our duty to
defend ourlclves againlt it. But the gentle- '
man from Pennsylvania had said, that the
French will not invade us, and without that '
there can be no war. He laid it was not their n
interest, and if it were that it was npt in the v
power of the French to invade us with any ?
formidable force ; that they have every thing '
but money, but without that it wastmpofli- '
ble for them to come over and invade us—
Mr. O. thought this a good reason why they c
Ihould attempt an invasion of this country. v
After having desolated Europe, and laid it •
under contribution, he supposed it would be 1
no difficult thing to induce a belief in their c
soldiers that they might find in our banks, '
and amongst our opulent citizens, a supply 1
of money. Nor was it money alone which '
they wanted, property of any kind would be
welcome. He therelore thought it highly 1
probable, that the Ihipsand troops preparing 1
against another country, when they (hall ei- '
ther have failed or succeeded in their ent,er- '
prise, may be destined for our (hores. It be- 1
came us, therefore, to make the bed defence >
we could. 1
But it was said, that these young men would !
not march to fight, or enlist for any time. 1
This was another reproach against them which
was unwarranted. We have seen, said he,
some of the young men of Philadelphia, and
from other parts of the country,embody them
selves as volunteers, and go upon a very un
pleasant and dangerous expedition, againd the
wedem infurgeuts ; and whenever an occa
sion shall again occur, he doubted not they
would again be willing to march in their
country's ferviee, provided the legislature
will ftrongground and afford them conn-.
tenance. But if they fee Congress are lul-
I led to sleep, they will very naturaHy fay,
" (ince Congress is unwilling to take aitive
' measures, it Wiii vain for us to come for
ward," and they will lose that spirit of ar
' dour which now animates them. It will give
! place to a repose that has proved fatal to eve
ry country which has given way to it, and
' which, in his opinion, it not prevented, will
: terminate in the dedruction of this country.
£ But he would wilh the gentleman from
, Pennnfylvania, or some other gentlemen who
„ are opposed to this, and who hive been pretty
3 generally opposed to every meifure of de
fence, would fay what fubditute they propose
e in place of this measure. After a procrasti
nated felfion of more than fix months, when
' every man out of these walls is imprelfed
with the danger of our situation, it was sure*
ly necessary to provide for some defence of
„ the territory of the union. They fay they
, w ill not havs a navy, because we are not ade
quate to the expence ; they agree to a few
e vessels. If you will noMhave a navy, will
you have an army I No, it is answered, not a
danding army, because it is dangerous to li
berty and expensive. Will you have a dand
ing army which (hall cost nothing ? No, be
cause that will be unconstitutional. We will
s agree to a little expence to fortify our ports
s and harbours ; to a few arms and a finall
quantity of ammunition ; but farther than
J this we will not go. We'will rely upon the
lt militia. If this, Mr. O. said, was the deter
t mination of gentlemen there was no occasion
[ for Congress to have met and debated fix
, months and finally to tell the people what
- e theycoulddo without our advice. " You
ie 1 mud rely upon your militia for defence." He
[( . fentment, indead of faying they have been
d and are willing to defend the country they
would be pleased to fay ty what system they
II propose to do it.
h Mr. O. believed this country to be in a ve
id ry hazardous situation. He believed we
d should fee a day more big with danger than
re we have ever yet seen, and it would be pru
it dent to guard against it before it comes. In
ie England and Ireland .volunteer corps are
jf greatly to be depended upon for the defence
1, of thole countries in the present time of dan
>g ger; and if in those countries, which gentle
le men call despotic countrbs, they depend up
id 011 their volunteers, ought not we to have
id greater confidence in them in this country,
where citizens fight for every thing dear to
j. man, and where if we make any change in our
ie government, it mult be an exchange of a free
ns for a despotic fydemiofg«vernment. We fee,
ie said he, an irruption in Europe more to be
j. dreaded than the irruption of the Goths and
e- Vandals; we fee not only ancient eftablifh
ld ments, and thronesand crowns throw n down,
iq but every thing great and good dedroyed.
;li And may not our country meet with a simi
lar fate ? May not the fame means which have
ie been employed in other countries, meet with
fe the fame success here ? They will, except
i_ that we resolve they (hall not. He could not
?e help wilhing that the old members of Con-
Id greisof 1756 were now in their places, or that
ie I those of them whole spirits are gone to receive
;d i their reward had left their mantles behind
1. them. But he was afraid that the conduit
m of gentlemen at this fedion would prove that
the present Congress had degenerated from
us the patriotism of their predccclfois and were
_ ! certainly not entitled to the biedings of their
s, [ country.
a ! (To bt continued.)
Xtje 0a sette. 7,
PHILADELPHIA, ym
MONDAY EVENING, 7^*4.
' we
CarliJle, Pennfylv/initi, 19th Mmj, *9B '| CI
At a numerous meeting of the citizens of this ko- 'p»
rough and vicinity, djfembled at t the Court-
House, in furfuance of notification in tbe Car- rit]
li/UGa%ctte, for the purpofc of exfrejjing their -he
sentiment s on the state of public affair, ; y°
James McCormick, esq. chief burgefj, th<
<was appointed chairman, nnd StJ
Jams s Duncan, fccretarj, llh
The following resolutions being laid before
the meeting were unanimously adopted, viz. to
Rrfoh'edf That the present alarming afpei\ of sol
our national affairs is a solemn call to all theciti- 1 on
zens of these United States, to make a mott de- • all
cided and explicit declaration of their fentim-nts, | to
not only for the support of the Executive, but | ge
to manifeft to world, that when oureflential an
intefefts are in qucltion, wc arc not a divided '
people, j ral
Refolvedt That we hold the independence of yo
our nation, purchased at a vail expence of blood 1 * n
and ireafure, to be thc firft of bleflings ; which j
were we tamely to surrender, we (bould become
a contemptible and degraded people. Ps
Refolvedy That the unfriendly dilpofitions and in
condu<ft of those with whom we wiihed to con- all
tinue in perpetual amity, and their menaces and ha
most unreasonable demands, have justly excited
the most painful sensations iu every American
bosom, and rendered a reeourfe to the meins of
felf-defence akfolutely neceflary,
R'efolved, That while we admire thc wisdom, \
firmnefs and patriotism of the President of the
United States, uniformly through the
course of a long and ufeful life, we highly ap
prove of the measures that have been purfueJpi r >
for effecting a reconciliation with France, as °J
tiilcd in the communication of the inftru&ions
to and from our Envoys, preventing
the calamities of war, and maintaining our dig- ai
nity and independence ; And that we cannot but d
view tl>e refufal to acknowledge and amicablv fa
treat with those Envoys, a condutfl uttcrt)' rr
inconsistent with that justice and rriendftip wc
had 1 right to expefh
Rtyblved, That rakin? hlto view the depre
dations wantonly comrrriited on our commerce, P
with many other unequivocal expressions of cn- j f
mity ; and-placing full confidence in our Exec- u
utive and Legislative Bodies, we will zealously
cOncur with our Fellow-Citizens throughout the u
Union, m fhe-iupport of a!l those measures that
may be necefTary to secure our peace* liberty and
independence.
Refolvrd, That we view with indignation eve
ry attempt, from whatever quarter, to sow fa
tal divifiom? among the people of America, and
to alienate their af?t-<shons Irom the government
of their choice ; and consider every insult offer
ed to the rulers or representatives of the people,
as an insult to the people themselves, which
ought to be resented accordingly. And at the v
fame time we solemnly declare it as our opinion, g
that whatever differences may have fublifted a- y
mong ourfelvls, as to the best measures to be t
pursued from time to time, for the security cf
freedom and public happiness ; there car.not be a
any difference in sentiment, or opposition in 1
measures, when our national existence and inde- (
pendence, and our right of felf defence and felf
government, lhall at any time be called in quef- (
tion. 1
Refoltkd* That general William Trvine, Dr
Samuel A. McColkry, Samuel Poft'ethwaitjefq. 1
Mr. Joseph Pierce and James Duncan, esq. be a ' 1
committee to prepare an address to thePrefident '
conformably to the foregoing resolves, and lay 1
it before this meeting for their apprrbation.
The Committee appointed to prepare an address to
the President cf tht United States, after retit •
ing for a fbort tirnt> returned and reported an
address, which being twice readnuas unimouf
. ly approved of by the meeting, and ordered to
1 be fignedby the chairman, and atfefied by the
and transmitted together <u)ith a eo
\ py °f *ke foregoing Resolutions, to the Senators
> in Congress from the State of Pennfilvajiia, to
be present ed to the Prefiflent.
Signed by order and on Behalf of the meeting,
» James McCormick, chairman,
Attefl. Jamfs Duncan, secretary.
J To the FPESIDENTofth* UNITED STATES.
SIR,
While the citizens of America, in every part
of the Union, are addressing you with expreflions
' of affeclion and tenders of th?ir services, at this
moil important crisis ; we, the inhabitants of
j Carlisle and its vicinity, inspired by the fame
a love of oar country, and attachment to its best
interests, desire also to express our sentiments rc
fpetfling the affairs of our nation* with becom
ing freedom. Inheriting liberty as a birthright,
j and rising above the degrading spirit of colonial
s dependence, we not only have a chara<s\er al-
I ready established as freemen and defenders of
n our country, but we are resolved to maintain
e that c)iara<her at every hazard.
Under a government of our own choice, and
n the auspices of a wife and just administration,
K we have enjoyed for a number of years as great
t a share of national prosperity and happiness, as
Ll has perhaps ever fallen to the lot of any people.
e Having eftablilhed a free government, on the f
a id basis of the general will, we could rtot but!
. grant that other nations had a right to regulate
n and manage their own internal concerns in like
y manner. In their endeavois to this end, we
y conceived we ought not to interfere, and we
wished to enjoy the blessings of neutrality and
peace; discharging at the fame time all the ob
ligations we might be under to any European
e power with the utmost good faith and impartial
-1 iI T;
The measures that have been pursued by the
Executive from time to time, to maintain such a
state of thing, and to preserve us from the evils
of war and national degradation, have met and
~ still meet with our hearty approbation. The
appointment of Envoys extraordinary, for the
~ adjustment of all our differences with France
and the ample powers with which they were
vefted for this end, manifefted the finrerefl dif
ir position for peace and justice, and the happiness
, c of both nations; nor can we consider the treat
l ment which those Envoys have received, the de-
mands that have tieen made of us, and thc
i( j threats denounced against us, if we will not
comply with their wishes, without feeling as A
mericans ought to feel, and resolving that we
{' will cheerfully concur in the fuppart of all mea
j_" j fures which shall appear neceflary for the nation
e j al defence, and the maintenance of that free
h I dom and independence which we hold most dear.
! While we join with you in humbly soliciting
_, t the froiles of Divine Providence on our national
j. affairs, and the blessings of genuine freedom,
at accept, Sir, of our sincere prayers fa* your per
• e fonal happiness.
id Signed by order and on behalf of the meeting %
t\ James McCor m 11K, chairman,
Attefl JAm e s Duncan, secretary.
ni
re To the citizens of the Borough of Carlisle and its
ir vicinity in the State of Pennsylvania.
{ GENTLEMEN,
I Nothing could be more obliging tome or faith
/ul to the public lhah the unanimom refplutioni de;
and address of the citizens of Cirlifle of the 19 thc
May which have been prefenttd to »ne by one of e *|
of your Senators in Co«wref»i Mr. I ingham. cq|
When you declare your resolution to maintain
your established tfhara&er, as Freemen and .Vem
bers of an Independent nltion, as your birth
right, the world will applaud your wisdom, as
well as virtue. When you acknowledge that un- A
der a government of y ur choice, md the au
spices of a wife and just administration, you
haveenjuyed as great a shire of national prolpe
rity and happiness, as has perhaps ever fallen to
the lot of any people, you do great honor to
your government. Nevcrthelefs, I presume A
there is not a city or a village in the Sixteen
1 States that-can contradidl you, if there is one,
I h«»pe it will assemble and declare it.
W hen you acknowledge the right of nations
to regulate their own internal concern*, on the ~
solid basis of the general will, you recognize e
one of thc highest prerogatives of man. Like * r '
all other prerogatives howevsr, it ought always oi
to be exerted with wifdum and integrity for the m
general good ; never for the purpoJet of private
' ambition, party view* or foreipn intriguer. a .
When you approve the measures of the gene-
j ral government you deserve its thanks—and
your feelings of the unworthy return of insults P'
i and menaces are the feelings of nature approv
»ed by reafm and juftified'oy the public voice.
In your humble supplications tor thefmiles of fu
Providence, on our national affairs and the bl'-fl*- m
ings of genuine freedom, you will be joined by
all good men. Your prayers for my personal
happiness are rood affe<sline to me.
JOHN ADAMS. * c
Philadelphia, May 29th, 1798.
WIIMIKCTON, (N C*s t Ith MAY, 'sß. P'
At a meeting of the inhabitants of the town of Wil- tl
mington, regula'lyand legally convened by Jolhua c .
J Wright, magistrate of police. Q
Rejolvemunanimoufly, That it it proper and neeeffa
|ry at this time 10 prepare an address to the executive r<
of the United States in approbation of the measures v
of government, as they relate to the present unhappy
differences with the republic of France.
Resolved, That George Hooper. Amariah Joulin *
and Edward Jones, be a committee to draft an ad- F
dress to the foregoing effcft ; and that they report the J
fame to-morrow at 12 o'clock, till which time thc y
meeting is adjourned.
MAY 18th, 1798. '
At a full meeting of the inhabitants of the town, c
the committed appointed to form an address to ihe ~
Piefident of the ilnited Statts, made their report
wh ; ch being read paragiaph by paragraph, was unan- ®
imoufly agreed to and rcfo'ved that thc fame be cer- li
tificd by the magistrate of police, and by him for- f
warded to our fenatois in enngrefs, rrquefting them c
to present thefafn" to the President.
Attcft JAMES W. WALKER, c
Clerk to the town meeting p
JOSEPH G. WRIGHT, J
Magistrate oi Police.
To JOHN AD*MS, aseuißi, PRESIDENT or
the UNITED STATES ox AMERICA.
The address of the inhabitants of the towq of Wil
mington.
sir,
WE, the inhabitants of the town of Wilmiog'on,
in the state of North Carolina, legally convened to
> gether, feel it to-be our incumbent duty to address
you at this very important crisis of the affairs of the j
; United States in relation to the French republic,
f Permit us to affute you, that we view with entire <
. approbation the advances made by the executive au- 1
' thority of our own government to that of France, for .
an honorable and equitable adjustment of all differ
ences between thc two republics.
We do not affett to conceal that from a seeming
* congeniality of sentiment refpe&ing civil liberty, and
from the consideration that they were engaged with
America in the conflift that terminated in her inde
. pcndence .* we entertained a partiality and friendlhip
' for the people of France, so long as the eftablifh
k ment of a free and equal government appeared to be
the virtiiom object of their pursuit.
P We lament therefore, that those advances instead
of being reciprocated in the manner that from their
0 great candor and liberality, might reasonably have
" been expt&cd (and which for the intereftsof both na
n tions was devoutly to be wished) were repelled with
C- indignityand contempt; and that it has become too
0 evident that principles replete with danger to this
e country a&uue the conduit of the present French go
vernment.
,j It mud now be manifeft to the world, that the un
exampled moderation and forbearance of the govern
ment of the United States have served only to excite
to new aggrelftons on thc part of France, and that no
other alternative remains as a choice for the former,
h than conceflion which would degrade our cha rafter
as a nation, and sap the foundation of its indepen
dency—or torifort to thofedefenfive measures which
S. theTpirit of the people and the refourccs with which
God has blessed trs, enable us to call (and wetiuft fuc
rt cefsfully) into operation.
Appreciating the advantages of peace, and contrast-
j 9 ing with them the calamities incidental to an opposite
r state of things, we deprecate the approach of
but flill we do not hesitate to declare that if that c&
tremity unavoidably becomes the final resort, all the
" exeitions that ftiould be expe&edm so just a caufefrom
c " men animated by an ardent love for their country,
and resolute to assert its rights and support its govern
t, ment, may be depended on from us.
al 'J be annals of our country afford ample testimony
,1. of the zeal with which your talents and patriotilm
0 f have been uoiformly exerted in its service ever finer it
1 aifuined an independent fitgation. Your conduct in
the discharge of the duties of the high station you
now fill, rcflc&s new luftie on your charafter, and
dignity upon'the government over which you prcfide.
n » Thoroughly persuaded, therefore, that it will be
at the great objeft of your administration to promote
as the fafety, honor and prosperity of our common coan
e. try, we humbly implore the blcfling of the fupremc
ij. being upon your endeavors, and that you may ex pe
rience his peculiar care and providence.
t Unanimously agreed to in town meeting*
JOSEPH G. WRIGHT,
Magistrate of Police.
ve
ANSWER,
' To tfc inhabitants cf the touti of Wilmington, in tht Jlatc
" oj North Carolina,
ln CENTLEMEN,
tl- YOUR address, unanimously adopted, at a meet
ing legally convened, has been prcfented to mc by
he yonr senators in Mr. Martin and Mr. Blood
i A worth
j] g An adurance from thc city of Wilmington, that
1( j you view with entire approbation, the advances
. made by the executive authority of your government
ie to that of France, for an honorable and equitable ad
justment of all differences between the two republics,
cc is of high value to me, and affords a convincing proof
re that Americans think and feel alike on great and ef
if- fential objc&s, in all parts of the union.
?fs The friendship you entertained for the people of
France, from a seeming congeniality of sentiment
| e _ refpefting civil liberty, and from thc consideration
. that they were engaged with America in the conllift
that terminated in our independence, so long as the
,ot eltab!ilhment of a free and equal government appear
ed to be the virtuous objrtt of thctr pursuit ; far tiom
being a reproach, was honorable to the difpofnion
M- of your hearts,
»n- The repulsion of our advances, candid, liberal and
ee conciliatory, as all the impartial world will pro
ar# nounce them, has indeed made it too evident, that.
* principles leplete with danger to this country, and
to all others, # aftuate the condu& of thc present French !
government.
111 * It is also manifeft to tfie world, that the unexam
cr" pled moderation of America, has fcrved only to ex
cite new aggressions. Your declaration, that when
the'extrcmity of war becomes the final resort, all the
in, .exertions, that should beexcrcifed in so just a cause,
from men, animated by an ardent love of their coun
try ; ana tefoluiion to assert its rights and support its
government, may be depended upon, will be fitis
ia&ory toevery branch of the government, and high
ly p'.cafing to all your fellow citizens.
The testimony of the citizens of Wi'mington, to
lb- my zeal, and industry. in the public feivice, is very
dear to me; and your petitions for Ibe blcfTingi of
the fupreine being on my radeavora, and that 1 may
expetieme hia pei uliar rate aod providence, ciai ke
answered onlybv fiipplicationa on my part, for yctf*
country, yourlelvea, and your poderity.
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May 3id, '9B.
At a general meeting of the Citizen* of
Albany, held at the City-Hall, on Wed
nesday the 16th day of May, 1798, to
take into conlideration the alarming Hate
of this country ;
Abraham Ten Broeck, Esquire, in the
Chair )
Refolded unanimoujly, That tn the opinion
of this meeting, it is our duty as good citi
zen*, when a foreign nation confidently as
serts that the American people are divided
from their government, publicly to declare
our fentimenti to our Rulert on that mo
mentous fubjeiS.
Rrfalved unanimoujly, Tl'at we entirely
approve of the condu& of the President of
the United State" towards the' French Re
public, at this alarmi g criGs.
Refotved unanimoujly, T although we
deprecate the calami'ii of war, w fel per
suaded that evrry proper overture has been
made by our government to avert it ; and
therefore we will support, with spirit a'd
fortitude, the m'eafures which shall be adopt
ed to vindicate our national honor and in
dependence-
Rrfolved unanimoujly, That we will ex
pofs t6 the deteilation of our fellow-citizens,
the perfidy of all those who, in our present
1 critical situation, endeavar either to retard
or fruftrate the exertions of government to
repel the invasion of the neutrality and fo
-1 vereign rights of the United States.
Refotved, That Abraham Vanbechten,
, Samuel Stringer, Enoqh Leonard, William
P. Beers, Charles R. Webster. Henry 1.
: Bog»rt, Jacob Blucker, junior, Hunloke
Woodruff, Renflclaer Weftetlo, Direck
Ten Broeck, Luther Trowbridge, and Lu
, cas Van Veghten, be a Committee to pre
\ pare an address to the President, expressive
of the sentiments conveyed b« the forego
. ing resolutions, and cause the fame to be
- fubferibed as generally as possible by the
1 citizens of Albany, and to forward it with
out delay, together with a true copy of the
preceding resolutions, to our Representative
in Congress, to be delivered to the Presi
dent.
F A. T. BROECK, Chairman.
Je*. Lansingh, Secretary.
I-
To JOHN ADAMS,
1, President of the United States.
SIR,
r « WE, the citizens of Albany, having a
c lively fenfc of the danger with which our
re country is threatened by a foreign nation,
'■ beg leave to communicate to you our entire
>r approbation of your condufl. at t'>is critical
period, and to a {lure you of our sincere dif
ig position to support, with zeal and firmnefs,
whatever measures the government of the
e _ United States deem neceflary to vindicate
ip and maintain our national honor and iude
t»- pendence.
" The moderation which this country ha#
uniformly manifefted towards the French,
rir Republic, notwithstanding its repeated and
unprovoked aggreflions on our neiifal and
sovereign rights, is an incontestable proof
m of our ardent solicitude to cultivate peace.
iia But there is a point beyond which even the
°" bltflings of peace cannot be fought without
n _ servility—That point has been recently
n- fixed between Franc? aud America by the
•'e infolerit demands made upon us, demands
no which we cannot submit to withaut pro-
J ftrat ing our independence and facrificing our
n- best l'nterefts.
cI J The prefumptuons hope, announced by
the agents of the Republic to our Envoys
Extraordinary, that the American people
fl> are divided from their government, indicates
that a perfidious attachment to the cause
$ of France, lurks amongst us, The fallacy
he of this hope it is equally our duty and our
)m interell to expose. We therefbre folemn'.y
!>■ pledge ourselves, in the molt unequivocal
manner, tofuftain, with energy, theconfti
ny tuted authorities ps our country, against all
lm the machinations of its enemies, whether
; n foreign or domestic.
'on Accept, Sir, of our best wilhes that a
gracious Providence may long preserve your
precious life, and continue to dirtft your
olc adminillration, and that when the measure
m- of your days (hall be filled, you may receive
mc the gloricAis reward that is due to eminent
' JC virtue and patriotism. ,
(Signed by 765 persons.)
Albany, May 16, 1798.
To the Citizent of Albany, in the State of
\alt New-Tori.
GENTLEMEN,
c[ THE address of the citizens of Albany,
by has been presented to me by their Reprc
od- fentative in Congress. Mr. Glen.
t I could not look over the long roll of
IC ' C} refpet\able fubferibers, without the senti
ent mentsaf gratitude, esteem and refpeft.
ad - The li/ely sense »f the danger, you ex-
JJjJj press, with which our country is threaten
c{. Ed by a foreign nation, is, as well-founded,
as your appr bation of my conduft at this
ol icritical period, and your fiocere difpofitiou
™ to support, with zeal ?nd firmnefs, what
lift evei measures the govei nrrent of the United
States shall deem neceflary, to vindicate
and maintain, our national honor and inde
ion pendence, are. agreeable to mc, and fatis
faflory to the public,
and The moderation of this country towards
the French Republic is almost without cx
a„d ample ;it would not, certainly, have been
nch so long continued, towards any other nation
iu the world—it is not only a proof of our
ex- desire of peace, but of our particular at
hen tachment to France.
lh e There is- indeed a point, beyond which
a love of peace, and friet-dfhip to France,
| iJ, cannot be indulged without servility.
«ia- Although the F'ench government ap
'gh - pears to have adopted against. us the moll
, perteft fyllem of hoftiiity in their power, it
,'er; is not for me to fay how long we (hall fr.ac-kle ourfclves, by reserves of friendship to
them.
That a perfidious attachment to France,
lurks among hi, is molt certain. We rrtay
however console ourfeives, at this time, that
it contaminates very few native Americana,
and I should hope not many naturalized
strangers. Pledges like yours will soon
reduce the number of both.
Your kind wilhes, that a gracious Provi
dence may preserve my life and direst my
admini'fration, are too affe&ing to be an
swered by me, but by prayer? for the Citi
zens of Albany and their posterity forever.
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May 23, 1798.
Latest Foreign News.
PARIS, March 29.
The Bcrrefe, we undtrdand, have sub
mitted to the following conditions : «' The
city of Berne is to maintain 4000 French
foot, and 1000 horse ; the inhabitants of
the city, as well as the country people, are
to be disarmed ; the arsenal is to be given
up to the disposal of the French army ; a
provifioiial national aflembly is to be fubfti
tuied' ir, the Head of the former regency ;
and the Helvetic conllitution received fiom
Paris, is to be accepted."
STR Msrch 14".
1 he French have found in the arsenal at !
Ber« 2000 pieces of cannon, and a great '
tiunUr of rnufquets. We are cHriou3 to
hear what will become of the millions of
coi'.ed and unco ned gold and silver, of i
which the trrafures of Berne confided.
An hundred and forty four thousand du
cats is the sum demanded by the French
from the king of Naples for the horfe3, one
of which should have been annually presen
ted to the Pope. They also demand the
surrender of Cardinal Yt. rk, and the archives
of the litquifition, rtmoved from Rome a
few days before their arrival in that city. '
Thry have taken poffefTioii of all the valu- :
ables in the Portugueie church at Rome in i j
the name of the republic. ' , !
The lols of the Swiss in different engage
ments Ctice the 111 inft. is ellimated at 7000 (
among whom are about 400 women. The
Swiis fought with a bravery worthy of their
ancestors ; many of them refufed to accept
quarter, and others rudied to the cannons j
mouths to prevent their advancing. As the t
Swiss troops, notwithstanding their obstin
ate resistance, were constantly turned by the j
French cavalry and flying artillery, they {
fufpefted that they were betrayed by their ,
officers, wlsofe dispositions were far exceed- c
ed by those of the French Generals. a
Dr. Blair, the celebrated Author of the
Sermons, &c. has given iool. towards the (
national defence. a
An account was yesterday received in „
town, that the Stag cutter of 14 guns r lieut. j
Worth, stationed off Cadiz, has captured j,
a very large Spanish (hip of about 600 tons c
burden, bound from Manillas to Cadiz, lad t
with a valuable cargo,befides a large (Juan- p
tity of money ; the whole supposed to be j
worth upward of ioo.oool When the let- -]
ters came away, (he was undty escort ot five „
fail of the line, bound to Gibraltar.
Some great political (hock i? expe&etj
scon to take plnfe in Spain : the clergy in
general much alarm since the Pope r\
lias been driven from Rome ; even.in Porta- 1 n
gs!, the Ecclesiastics are not without their c
fears of some fiidden change. a
April n. t
The French have 100,000 mfn at and t
within fifty miles of Brett. Their naval . t
force there is not very formidable ; their j.
only hope of success, therefore, if they fend j.
an expedition to sea, must be to elude the j,
vigilance of our fl?ets. v
The French Jireflory has transmitted to t
count Cobenzel, by a special meflenger, a
watchrtichlyfetwith diamonds, and a watch- ]
chain entirely covered with precious (tones, a
valued at 60,0e0 guilders; and to hisss- t
cretary a present valued at 500 Louis-d'ors
'
IRISH PARLIAMENT.
HOUSE OF LORDS. r
Saturday, Ma-ch 24. I
The lord chancellor took the woolsack c
about four, and their lordfliips (hortly after- d
wards adjourned to robe, preparatory to the n
reception of his excellency the lord lieute- a
rant, who came down to the house in the
ulual date ; and b'ing fated on the throne, ti
the commons were sent f r, and shortly as- ti
terwards attended, with their speaker, ' L o
the bar, who addressed his excellency in the
following fpecch : a]
" May it ])leafe your excellency, * tl
" Large as the supplies of the lall fellion
were beyond all former grants, these which
the commons now offer to h s majesty are cl
not infetidrfnhey go to the fulled extent of
every service proposed by government, and
are given with an unanimity and zeal which
marks the nnalterable determination of this re
kingdom to (land or fall with Great-Britain,
and (hows that our vigor rises as the vaunt- M
ing menaces of the enemy increase. G
" With the fame unanimity we have th
voted the maintenaifce of an army far great- lo
er that! was ever krpt up by this kingdom pe
during any preceding war ; and we have sis
continued to them the augmentation of pay ot
which was granted by the lad parliament, th
and which your excellency didjuttlyftate to fe
that parliament to be a seasonable and ho- (h
norable acknowledgment 011 their part of bi
the ft-adinefs and loyalty of the army ; the
present parliament feels the fame fentirrents )0(
towards them. Repeated experience of the m ,
Older and alacrity which they have shewn '•>
on every occasion that has offered confirms by
his majtlly's faithful commons in those fen- ',
timen'sandwe join mod cordially with Ilia cot
majedy in his firm reliance on the valour of
hj« regular and militia forces in this king
dom, which hismsjedy has been pleafvd to .
ctp'efs in his gracious answer to our r>
»b: ftffion. an
" While the courage, 'the vigour, and
tbe discipline of t-hofe fortes mutt render tc <
to tliem formd#b!e to the 2nemy «t ensure his;
defeat, (bould he 1* desperate tnough to
:e, attempt fhvafion, their zeal, and that of the
ay Ysomen, Jocut down Rebellion, to crulh
lat 1 nfurreftion, and to assist the Executive
is, Power if! protcding the loyal, the innocent
ed and well difpofcd, affyrds the mod conviu-
Bn cieg proof of their ardent aijd unfhakeable .
attachment to the bed Sovereign and bed
ri- Conditution that ever blessed a free and
iy happy People. We are free—and we will
n- not tamely give iip our happiness. The loy
ti- al spirit of the Nation is able to crush Rebel
r. lion to atoms, wherever it (hall dare to fh<>w
itfelf; and with thefirmnefs which so dror.g
ly marks your Excellency's charafler, with
»■ the condant success which haa attended
every vigorous measure that necedity has
called on your Excellency to adopt, we have
nothing to fear. We have, indeed to lament ,
the traiterous conspiracies that dill conti- ,
nue, and that any men can be found in the '
land, so lod to every sense of patrotifm, of
j. humanity, of duty to themselves, lheir '
Country, and their God, as to degrade the
0 Nation and the name of Irfhmtn, by a£ts of
i ingratitude, barbarityandaft'affination, which
would debase a favage—a6U which call for
the heavy ha id of juflice, aud which the or
* dinaiy power . f the laws has proved
n quate to prevent the melancholy and frequent
repet.tion of.
" But while we lament such a mortifying ,
calamity, we have the fatisfaction of feeing
| how little it. malignant influence, or the 1
effort of an exasperated a d reve 'geful Ene
j. my, have affe&ed our commercial prosperity. !
j.. " Notwithdanding the largeness of the j
• supplies, we have contioued the usual boun- i
' ties and enfouragements to the trade, the '■
agricultui- , and the manufafturts of the 1
Kingdom ; and. we fee, with sincere gratifi- 1'
c cation, the definable effefts of those encoura- ' !
geinents in the great inefcafe of ttade du- /
" ring the War, in the general confidence
s which atte-ds private a3 well as public cre
-1 | dit; in the tinufual plenty which our ngri
j culture supplies, and in the prosperous state i
' ' of a 1 our marjufaQures, but mod particular- 1
1 ! ly bhe great ftapls the linen." 1
Mr. Speaker then presented the Bills, to t
which his Excellency was p'eafed to de- t
1 clare the Royal assent.
■\ * LONDON, April 9.
About 4 o'clock this mo ningjud as this (
1 | paper was at press we received Paris Journals (
; to the sth inft. l ,
The eleft ons proceed with rapidity in the j
Primary Assemblies. Diffentions are how- e
ever apparent ; but the influence of the Di
reftory is dill superior to every opposition. •'j
Some conspiracies have beaa: detested, and 1
all goes on as usual, 1
Faypoult, Florent, Monge and Daunou, J
Commissioners of the Executive Direftory
at Rome, have lately written to the Com
missioners of the Executive Dire&ory at C
Paris, dating, thSt the Roman republic, t]
by the proclamation,,of its laws, and the ac- n
ceptance by the people of the new Condi- e
tution, has extreifed the grcaiteft aft of its "
power; aud that there fliall be field " The k
Feast of the Sovereignty of the People."
The other part of the Istter cbntains enco- if
niiurro on the Diref'cry. """ vi
Letters from Petetfburgh announce trou- 0
bles in that capital. A
A letter from Hamburgh, March 157
dates, that the beallh of the Emperor is so
much weakened, that the physicians fear he
cannot ftirvivc more than fix "months.. Some
advile him to rtpair.to Pisa, not snly for
the fake of the waters, but to breathe bet
ter air The Archduke Charles, during $
the absence of his brother, will, it is sup- B
posed, have the care of the; Government ;
but it appears that this arnaogement. has not
been, made with the consent of the Efnprcfs, S
who, with her partizan?, has pretenfioßS to s
this honour.
From Odend, it is dated, that all the
E'nglilh who reside there have been put ip
a date of arred in their own houses. The
American agent has not been excepted. g
The Executive DireSory, on the 31 ft g
ult. refl sting on the reports which have
been addressed to it by the Minider of Ma- e
rine and Co onies, during his residence at
Bred, and considering that the wahi of con
cert in the operations of the army and navy
dedined against England, has been the
means of retarding the expedition, decrees t ;
as folio • s
1. That Gen. Buonaparte (hall proceed
to Brcft in the course of the piefent decade ,v
to take upon him the command of the army t jf
of Englar-d
---2. He is charged with the direction of
all the forces by land and sea, destined on n .
th: expedition against England. -p
3. Ihe present decree (hallnot beprinted.
The Ministers of War and Marine are
charged with its execution >
(Signed) MERLIN, President. p
LAGARDE, Sec. Gen.
The Toulon fleet, consisting of 30 fail is ta i
reported to be at sea.
A letter fram a gentleman on board his
Majesty's ship Triton, of 32 guns, captain
Gore, cruifi g offthe French coast, dated
the 3d of April, fays—" We' yesterday
looked into Brest, and counted frventeen p,t
pendants flying on board ships in the road,
fiften of which were ships ot the line, the
others frigates and corvettes. They all have J Sc
their fails bent, and appear qujte ready for '
sea.—We flood so clofein that several bomb ' Sl<
Ihells were thrown at us from the batteries
but did us no damage." ; nt
DUHLrX, ADril 5.
Letters were ycitcrri»y rcc- ived in town from Kil'a- -,*■
loc (couutv Clare) which llatc, that a party ot yeo- , 1
injury, had on sa:urday la(t kiilld twelve miurgents I
in that nrighbotho <l. The fid is Cully authenticated j tlx
ihe hi>»hcU refpe£bJ»ilit}. The only )
particulars which wc have heard are, that a band us .°
armed rufiians afTaultcd all the pcrfons who were
comingout of chuich after t.aving attended divine
lervice. Tbe c'eig\ man, a inoit worthy and rfteem
ed gentleman, was alio auacked, and to e'eape alTaf- r
Gnat ion, fled ro a boa, where breast deep in wj er,
he wa» firwd ov by tbe afTadi is. A party of veoman
ry vvere foriutiatcly pa(unsl>y the church at that time,
and-lcing inlt»im<d ol hisilauver. flew to his afTilt- J
ance, killco tweivt of the aiLfTins o<» the spot, Whose !
bodies weie found,and wounded many mo.c. They j
tcok no prilcuc: s. | prj
l° c Xije
PHILADELPHIA,
!" MONDAY EVENING, June 4.
:d |" sr is*—
•J DieH, this morciing, at his lot!ging9 fn
111 this city, NATHAN BRYAN, Esq.
J- one of the Members of the House of Re
:l- prcfentatives of the Uaited States, from the I
w ,state of Nortb-Carolina.,
r- DIED -0: i Saturday more ing, the second inft. I
J, at Philadelphia, where flie had been brought to seek
1 relief trom a Ihort but naoft violent disease, Mrs.
jMa&v Wharton, wife of the Rev. Dr. C. H.
i 3 Wharton. Any details of the good qualities of
r c this most amiable woman, wrniM he unintereftjag
it to those to whom (he was unlc'i wn ; and no dif
j, play of her can enh.ince wherever (he
« was acquainted. Tke social and religious duties
c were the familiar habits ot hermind, eyer alive to
all the fympathics and charities o^'human nature,
r ' To her neaiell connrAions her lrfs i* irrepara'jle,
C I with refpeit to this world ; and no confideratiion
can soothe the bitternef& o! their regret, but an
humble confidence that flis has happily entered in- a
to the joys of her Lord and Saviour, where, at the ].
r termination of their fleetirg lives, they hope to j
be again united to her by thofo everlaftfng ties of J £
heavenly lovu and tenderness, which the spirits of c
the made perse& arc forever exercising andex
prienclng at the righ hand of God.
? of a letter from a gentleman in Knoxville,
\ Tenneffiec, to his friend jn this city, dated 16th t
e ; May, 1798.
" The-puhjic opinion refpc&ingths adminiftra-
tion of tho government, has lately much changed
in favor of the a Jmijuftration—The French mea
sures have dlfoufled, insulted and the united people a
in one fentim :nt—the most clamorous democra's here
; arc now silent, and the great mai« of the people are
» . frjeodi the country—A few bntf men in this j P
State have mi fled the people before, but now they
are left without eveu a colouring for falfhood to t
reft oft, 3«d the people to think and speak
- for themselves." t<
COMMUNICATION.
Our friend, Mr. Volney, announces the
fufpenlion of the tranjlat 'ton of the Ruins.— ]
• We doubt not, however, from his well- n
known attach ment to us, of his zealcns en
-1 de&vours to furnifh a compleat edition of )'
the original\
ir
Help ! oh ! Help !
We have it from good authority that a c
1 certain gentleman-os high station in our b
Government has written on to Virginia, c
" earnejlly soliciting his partisans and all their
influential men in his part (J 1 the country to ex» t(
ert themselves to procure fubferiptions to the
AURORA, or the paper mufl fall, many
Subscribers having lately withdrawn. Strange h
Involution ! o
Aurora aboHt to set.to rife no more !
Aurora, that rofc t® profit all, should fail to profit
herfelf! "A
—ei
j Cast Francois, ltd Flo rial, 6th year, nth May.
The general in chief entered the city of St. Marc (
the 19th inft. His humanity, and faitfi of promises
made thetn, have inspired the inhabitants with an
entire confidence in him, which has been manifefted Cl
manner the most unequivocal, by their joy to
fee the tri-coloured flag waving bn tlicir .walla. The b
general has given pleasing fetisfatftion by announcing t:
the intention of the French government not to pun- e
ifh such of the culpabl« as did not take an a&ive part 0
with the British. Jhe city is not destroyed, is full CJ
of people, and it is hoped will in a little time be re- C
stored to its former fplendbur. p<
GAZETTE "MASTTIST. "
PORT OF PHIt ADtLPH lA.
■ -it. It
Xrr.ived. >
Ship Louila,Kane,Bourdeaux viaCliarlcfton 7
Brig Beaver, Klliot, Savannah 7 .
Hannah, Gildea, Wilmington, N. C. 5
,_,Jf t. jhe Fori. •
Ship Thomas Chalkley, Clark, Snrhiam 15 p
Nath. Bayley, Campbell, C. N. Mole 10 w !
Sch'r Thomas, Vanduym, C. N. Mole 10 w
Frieudfllip, Odlin, do. 10 u.
Minerva, Andeuille r d». 10 n,|
Phoebe, Howard, Havannah i 5
Eliza, Shaw, Cape Francois 9 br
Came vp/from the Fort,
Snow. Polly, Senkey, . Jeremie
Schoqner ExpernneiK, Maxwell,. St. Croix
Port-au-Prince and its dependencies were
evacuated »n the 9th ult On tiie 22d, a
flag arrived at the Mole from that place, the
purport of which was, to open an inter- ' V<
course between the two pods. The Mole 1
has been "declared a free port. All expedi- 3
tion, said to be again!! Aux-Cayes, was to 4
fail on the 2jth.
A large fleet, supposed to be the Amer- S
ican veffcls from Jeremie, were in fight of
the Mole, on the 23d. The Jason and her ,
convoy arrived at the Mole from hence 011
the 26th of April. Brig Friendlh p, Ar- 7
nold, bad failed for New Orleans 8 days. 8:
The Star, Ariel, Aurora, Lively and Ma- i
ry were at the Mole waiting orders. '
Captain Cotter informs that there have '
been only two American veflVls carried into '
Porto Ricojince the jane failed, and that „■
three privateers from that island a e lately •
taken by the Britilh ; viz. cc
The Vengeance of 6 gun , fours & fixes. '
La Baudaine i-f 12 fixes, and i
LeMutine, of 10 fixes. ,lc
Ne-w-Tori, June 2. ']
ARRIVED. DAVS
Brig North Carolina, Harker, Lisbon 4.5
Bellot a, Crocker, Savannah 6
Hunter, Til.ford, Antigua '^ n
Schr
Liberty, Taylor, Jean Rabel 13 ,
Sloop/* urora, Bradbury, N Providence 11
A three-million galleon was lately sent
into Lisbon by one of St. Vincent's cruisers. O
Admiral Parker had failed tcjoin St. hau
Vincent. t lot 1
Captain Tilford failed in company with ail :
the Englifli W. I fleet of 250 fail, and about larf:
100 American vtflels, under convoy of the •
Alfred and 7 frigates. '
New-Lonir.n, May 30. Dec
The sloop William, George Chapman, pay
from this poit, b' nndto Martinicp, is taken ry I
arid carried into Guadaloupe. to 1
Ihe sloop
ter, of Norwich, was at St. C.-o x about
the ill inft, had been taken by a Spahifh
privateer, o(l Demerara river, :nd catricd ji
into Orcrr.rqyt river, wlisfeli; wat ileUiueJ j
10 mouths.
Elt:ra<3 <if a Irtter from capt. Jolvn Ca!l«- t
scan. of the brig Union, dated St. Mar- I
tin's Nia* 6, to Mr, T. Cost.
" I had the misfortnne to be raptured a- |
hour three weeks since and brought in hete.
rhere are now 41 American veflcls, priz-s .
in here— by the last accounts, there were
n 160 fail at Guadalouoe ;2J at St. E'lllam, -
|. beiween 60 and 70 at Porto Rico ; and
upwards of ioofail in Hifpaniola— It would
e be intruding on yocr patience to relate all I 1 j
hare fuffered this voyage. I have, twice , <
-been taken by French privateers ; the lad £
wa - wholly manned with neg ocsand mu
lattoes, the outcasts of human nature. They
j held a dagger at my bread, and robbed me (
r «f my watch, money, &c. Ifour govern- j
ment sleep much longer, we are a ruined
: people; a little more le'hargy, and all the 5
, means of maiitime defence will be wrested
from us."
' CHARLESTON, May 17,
1 The Brit\/h frigate Thetis, capt. Cochran, 1
anchored off oiir Bar the evening bttfore the
last ; (he is last from New-Providence, and
[ has cruised the lad eight days be.ween St.
Augufhne and this Bar, during which flic has
captured four veirels, viz.
The fchr. Ranger, Booth, belonging t6
MeHVs B. Booth A: Co. of this port, from 11a
vanna, loaded with sugars.
'she schooner Nancy, of NOl folk, from the
Havanna, bound for Virginia, loaded with su
gars 1
I I he given for the above captures is,
that they carried naval stores and contraband *
, articles to the Havanna. a
; The Danilh brig Three Friends, from the £
. Havanna, bo»ind to" St. Thomas, cargo flip- £
j posed to be enemy's property.
The Hamburgh brig Frederica, from the
Havanna, with ijqq boxes i'ugar on board ;
(he wason her voyage to Hamburgh, and was o
tp call off here for orders. The reason for p
taking her is, that .Hamburgh veflels are not I
allowed, by the late orders of the king and cl
council, to cairy goods from a nation at war
with Great-Britain,to any port but their own.
This brig, .we are informe t, is to be sent this
morning to Halifax for trial. I
The brig Aurora, Woodman, which'arrived
yesterday from the Havanna, was brought to
by the Thetis, and examined ; herpapersbe
ing (uch as capt. Cochran approved of, he
permitted her to proceed.
We understand that the colleflor has re- 1
ceived a letter from an American seaman on
board the (liip Thetis, now off the bar, soli
citing the releafement of himfelf, and thirty r
American feamcn, on board said vefTel, who
have protections granted tham by the collec
tors of the United States, but which the cap- J
tain of the Thetis would not even look at.
We'likewife understand, that the collector
has particularly intere.ted himfelf in"behalf
of the said American seamen, and hasapplied
to the, British consul for the relief lolicited.
May XI.
The Thgtis Frigate, capt. Cochran, weigh- F
ed anchor on Saturday afternoon, and llood
torthe Northward, it is said that (he went in 3
search of a French brig and schooner, Priva
teers that flie had got intelligence of. Her
departure is the highest favour that could be
conferred on us by the Hon. Captain. g
The brig John, capt. Tate, was boarded
by the Thetis off the bar on Friday and de
tained until Saturday morning but upon an .7
examination of her papers, and beingfatisfied
of their clearness. (he waSdifmilTed. AH the
captains who have been overhauled by capt.
Codiran, do him the justice to fay that he was
polite, and his treatment of them civil, but \
can this juftity his anchoring yelfels bound in
to this port ; can it juftity the fending of
veflels captured by him, to Halifax with a N.
East wind.
arrived the (hips Maria, captain
Ingiis, and Pacific, captain Kennedy, from
London ; they failed 011 the 18th of March, H
under convoy of the Britilh St. Albans. , Pi
T '
SAVANNAH, May 8.
A duel was fought on Tueiday the 15th I
rnftarit, near Jack'fon Borough, between John I
Boyles, and William Bonne Mitchell, in : an
which the former was wounded in the knee. ;
We und-erltandat the fame time, tliat Charles ' ,
BoylcS and Dr. John Mitchell, also took a i ei
fliot—but it ended in smoke.
1 he above parties'were brothers againll ' N
brothers. ml
'■ Bi
WASHINGTON LOTTERY, No. 11. m<
A L 'tji of B/anls and Prizes.
167 th Day's Drawing—February 5.
No. Dolls. No. Dolls. No. Dolls. Ac. Dells. Ha
, ii8 7 134J7 31139 40 88
3568 x 725 349 516
4243 14316 431 ao 669 X
373 15202 x 7c x 41048 x
5176 x 988 914 206 A
434 16486 X3"i6 x 4:8 x *
741 17583 594 5 „
6,36 3J'3i * 6.17 Ini
7230 12'54 310 4212J
76z 953 469 670 , _
8256 19004 728 4 ;o 9 r
280 x 506 x 791 x "i jo (
463 x 877 808 266 x
S9O x-522 X 96! ~J r
600
7*6 x 877 XIS 930 I
9276 24239 ao 441 44316 x
782 581 471 519 x
0058 26651 759 4J , 49 x
130 X 27916 • 910 857 X J '
530 28489 X 38259 46306 X
12017 29195 699 940
*37 394J3 48415 x
' - 7 634 49x01 x
Sale of Real Estate, A
OnTliurfday evening next the 7th June at 7
o clock in the eveninj: at tile Merchants Cos- ]l
see-house i r . Seconri-ftreet, will be (bid it pub
lie an&ion,
A three Story Brick House ;
SITUATE Oil the north rule of Spruce-ltreet
No. 31, betw»en 2d and 3d ft rents. Ihe
hOuse is in rompleat repair 20 feet Fr. Ht and the „
lot extends S« feet in depth with the privilege of ~ ,
at. alley Fiazaot 13 feet 9 inches by 11 sett, a
large convenient lotelicn of 20 feet 9 inches by
13 feet 6 inches and 2 (lory high—nverthc kiteh- n( .
en is a kandfome dining room. The fire infur
ance on tht prcmUW is £t. o. extends to the 4th
Deeemher 1799 ! tile eiiare i» kibjefl to am Oil
payment of £ s .—PofiViSon can be had in a ve- tr " n
ry fiiort time, and security j;iven (if required)
to make the porcfaler a enmp'ete title—the
terms of payment will he one third caili, ore -
third in 6 m nths ar.d the r. majnder in one or
two years with interclLatlil security.
FOC/7 MC'» au3:o-!tcrs. re n t
J""f 1 !tt» U
, 1 -—Hull Mir
ed i LJ " W
Macnherfon's liiues.
*' | ... BATTALION OnftERS,
' June 4tjt, I??*,
j THF Bi.6ss arc to jlTtmblr, for thr purp it'c o?
a- | Ex<Tfifir, it the Mana«r rf thrift Cavalry, Of f«
e> rur. hetw tn Ttmli *t*d ttffrecth {tact*, <(>'
;s MORROW MORNIhO v. rather r » rrv.tr .r
The Rolj will b«? cal'c.l at u ftrtsr p ,Jl fiv «'JU,
RORKRT HfeYSHAM, A3, ta n t % f.t
'j AR 11LLLR Y BLLhS. '
jj 4 of a numhjr <_f the citizen* of
, i * the city and liberties, at 'the house ps Georgtf
Hill, for the purpose ps forming an Aktili.ck V
' e | CoMPANr, to I* attache! to
ft Saturday evening, Jane »d, 1798,
Rcfubed,
„ THAT a Commi'tee, eoiififtitig of fix, he ap»
> pointed to receive the signature* of fcch prrfoiis
ie (to the Articles of Aflociation) 3» arc disposed to
)• j®ih the said Corps
d ''hat the Committee Meet on Wednesday ind
|e Saturday evening, at 7 o'clock, at the house of
, t.»corge Hill, 1:1 order to confer and notify the an*
plicmts of their eleSion.
1 hat th« following perfonj br the Commirtee.
- Georgt Taylor, No. 4, NichoU'on'* Cour. ;
William Klintham, No. ij, Keys't alley, or
1 New freet ;
Richard John*, No, 1, Oak firertj
J Gecrge Willing, No. 80, Walnut ilreet;
[_ John M CauUy, No. 71, South Second-ftreer j
li Theodore Meminger, No. 169 north Second ft.
The Committee invito llirir fell.w citinni to
'"all upon them and enroll their names,
june 4. .
e THE COMMITTEE
(IF TUC
Mlr.IT/tRr ASSOCIATION— No. I,
, WILL attend a: Mr! George Yohe'a, V. :,ire
J Sw:, n, SalTalras Hreet, on Monday, V. id»rfd:.yv
and f ,-rday cverangs, in each week, from thehcurj
e of ~to 9 o'clock. !or:h« purptleof r. reiving the
fignaturcs of thoic whoitiay wifa tw bccorns menir
n?rsol that alleviation. jtuic x.
c Firfi Light Infantry.
' TO VI) of 1-q you nof (iiis Ciry WJ osjcdcHrp
5 011s to j;>tn a l,n Sirm fcr.rpj, an* oppor , oily now
r pr? fen's itfelf for ev.ro tfiert'rjvc;; n. fhr Light
t Infant.y Compaov beloo^ugto-he Firfi Raiment,
i commanded by Linr. Co 4. Fr *. n'ci sGu r njy.
r Applications to be m-.le a' No. 6. D>ck-:tuc .
s The Old Theatre'
In South-street, will open this eveningtfie ;lho£
i June, with a fpcries or entVjtainmeßt, called
3 The Tablature; or
I ♦ J* 7 S i IN TIME.
In Foiir Parts.
To which Mr. Chalmers reipcft-fuDy invite* his
friends and the public.
.- Putt IJf.
Poetic ©ccational adclrefs—wr Chalmers fona
a ta grafcd piano forte—mr Garr. Fortune and
Folly, Recitation, mr Chahnert.
■AMYNTOR, a pafloi'al hal'ac!, by mijs Hufithjf
composed by mr Taylor,
r Part id y
f THE FERVOR OF FREEDOM.
i AddrefTed to Columbians—an epic recitation.
Mr Chalmers.
<l Be mine tender pajftonl
From tfee Haunted Tower j composed by Sto
-1 * rac e—by niifs Huntley.
1 :e IVater Bottle, or a Cure for a Scold,
A comic recitation, by mr Chalmers.
Part ?,d.
mr 11ilmire.
SpolitingClubs dtfplayed—Remarks or.a<Hing—
London Taylor and Mr Garrick, by mr
Chalmers.
I The Soldier tir dos H r ar*s Alarms t from Ar
taxerxes, by mijs Huntley.
TOM KING, on, MONSIEUR TONSON,
' A comic I ale, by mr Chalmers
\ . Hornpipe— by tnrs ftoiufon.
A new patriotic long, to the tunc*of Anacreon
■ in Heaven, by metfrs Frederick ti'ijmor*.
Part 4th,
Pantomimical Sketch.
7BE WHIM ; '
1 j Jlurltfnin'i Animation
, Harlequin, Mr.Chalnv r« I Clow, , Mr Fully
, i Pantaloon, J/r. Rowfon j ColambirjsMrs.Rfiwfon
I Tile whole to conclude with H.-.ii Columbia," ty
Mr. Frederick, Mr. w'ilmi're and others.
j The doors will be opened at fix o'clock,
and the curtain will rife preeifclv at "fevtn,
; Boxes one doilar, Pit l.alf a Jollar, Gal
: lery quarter dollar,
j Places, and tickets to be had of Mn.
! North at the Theatre ; at Mw. B. Ca.t'd
| musical repofitcry, Markct-ftr. et ; Mr.
i Bradford, Front llrret ; ~nd of Mr. Chal
i mers, no 39, south Froi t-f!rcet.
John Miller, Jun.
•NO. 8, CHISNUT JTHIKT, * %
Has received, per Richmond from Calcutta
A Quantity of Sugar.
W eft Muicovado quality, which h« offer* for
sale very lav/ for calh or at 60 days.
HE HAS ALSO ON HAND,
A variety of British Dry Goods,
which he w.ll difpiife of on the n-.oti realonablc
tern: s.
India Calicoes by the Bale, £.c. S. c.
jw* s ' dtf
FOR SJLf,
On board the /hip CLOTHIER, at Perot's
Wharf
Excellent Cheshire, ai.d ) r-urr*v
Double Gloueeftrr 5 CHtE-iE,
In fine order— ALSO, a few Cratei of
Queen's Ware,
Well afloned for Families.
J une 4 ' s, w
Choice St. Croix Sugars,
EOR SALE BY
James Yard.
ai so,
A few pipes of restart ably fine Madeira, ft for
immediate use, and at .1 reduced price,
june 4 d, , t
Macpherfon's Blues.
THOMAS SHARP, T. tlo*,
No. 5?, South Third flrett, oppoftte the New Sank,
HAVING j.-nnc I the :.!>ove Corps,
favors »f his brother Soldiers.
N. 13. He can fjruifh/them with Mater'als of
the !■■.fl quality. ; n j,., , i .
IN'iacpherfon's Blues.
DOBBIN csr ROBERTS, Taylor,,
NO. I' 4, CHIJNLT iTR 5 f T »
-MemVers of .Macpherfon's B!o«,folicrt the pa.
trnnagcoj their Brother Soldier*.
' «
Wanu a Place,
A VOLNG WOMAN, to attend a Lady, or
* take care of Cl'.ii rcn—would wil!ii, e iy „ 0
jto th« cun ry. or to tbe fca fliore, may be
required. A ifly to ihe Printer,
iune 2. •Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searlaukers and Carraditriet,
* of the newed and mod approved patterns, entitled
to the drawback, just received,
ANB roa SALE BT
Alex. J. Miller Of Co.
No; 64, South Front (Ireet.
may i&. _ i
dT IF Mr. Charles William Klemeke,
Formerly of London, a;id who left England for
some part of the United States of America, in
the year 1796, be living, and will apply person
ally or by letter, to Mr. John Carrere, in Balti
more, or to Meflrs. Ifaae Hazlehurtt and Son,
in Philadelphia, he may hear of something great
ly tb his advantage. Any information refpe«®l
ing the said Mr. Charles William Klemeke,
would be thankfully received.
may ft d
Joseph Ricardo,
OF this City, Merchant, has alligned his pro
perty for the benefit of his Creditors, te James
C. Fiftier, Samuel W. Fi(her, and Thomas Wilson.
All persons who have demands are re
queued to furnifh their accounts without delay—
and those indebted to make immediate payment to
the Subscribers, a&ing Aflignecs.
James C. & Samuel IV. Fisher.
No. 13, Arch Street,
march 31 4tawtf
Very Great Bargains,
CONSISTING of Table Linen, Scotch and
India Muslins, now felling off and well
worth the attention of Housekeepers to make
purchase of 'Enqmic of
Thomas Randall,
No. 88 Spruce-Jlreet.
may 17 §
Military Colours,
PAINTED ON Sll.K—tt
George Rutter Ss" Co.
Portrait and Ornamental Painters,
IN a dile which will endure the hard(hips of the
weather without injury, and which for neatness
and exaditudc of colouring cannot be furpafled in
this city.
FLAGS and DRUMS
Furni(hed with dispatch, en the moll moderate
terms.
Portraits, Ornamental Paintings, Signs,
fire-buckets, &c. accompliflied in that superb dile
of modern elegance, which, Mr. Rntter fledges
himfelf from 10 years experience iu this city will
meet the entire approbation of his friends and the
public.
In the Military Line,
A variety of fpecimcn's may be seen at their
Painting Room, Norris's Court, back of the Njw
Library.
may 3 d6w
NOTICE.
HAVING observed an advertifemert of C.
Gullagtfr, in terms derogatory of our pro- |
sessional abilities, we have to requell the public
not to be imposed upon by foreign artists ; but to
decide upon the merits of each by a comparison ot I
the work executed by both, as it is ,a mode almod
universally adopted by them to invalidate the ta
lents of eft*bli(hed artists, with a view of deceiv- j
ing the public, and engrofling that business which |
their profefiional knowledge in no wife entitles
them to. Well knowing that public opinion mud
govern, we flatter ourfclves that the work execut
ed by us will convince them of our great fuperio
ritv over Mr. Gullager in every branch of por
trait aud ornamental painting, and (hew theneccf
fity of judging for themselves.
N. B. In future no attention will be paid to thi
fclf-flattcrlng advertisements of Mr G.
Any person wifhinj a supply of FLAGS and
DRUMS will please apply to Geo. Rdttkr and
Co. Norris' Court, or Henry Frailet, Germas
town. §6w may 8.
Military Colours.
At C. GULLAGER's
Portrait and Ornamental Painting Rooms,
No. 50, South Fourth, next to Chefaut dreet,
oppoiite the Friends' Meeting.
PAINTING on silks for Military and other ot
namental purposes (in a manner peculiar to
himfelf) durable, not to be injured by the weather,
which for elegance of design, truth and beauty of
colouring, neatness and masterly execntion, has
not been equalled by George Rutter and Co.
FLAGS and DRUMS
Furniihed with all poflible dispatch, on the mod
reasonable terms.
Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck
ets, Cornices, &c. &c. executed in dile (net that
superb dile of modern elegance peculiar to G.R.)
but in a workman like manner, peculiar to an ar*
tid mader of hi? profeffion.
Mr. Gullager, from a number of year's expe
rience in Europe and this country, Hatters himfelf
that profeflional talents, pun&aality, and reason
able demands, will meet the entire approbation of
those gentlemen who willpleafc to cull at hisPaint=
ng Rooms. §6w may 5.
NOTICE.
P. S. Gentlemen in town and
country, wishing for a supply of Colours and
Drums, painted in a malterly manner, will no
doubt feci themselves obliged for the kind caw ion
given by George Rutter and Co. not to trud felf- '
flattering advertisements, but examine the work
executed by both parties One view will satis- '
fy them where the superiority lies, —save thefpoil- *
ing of good silks by George Rutter's pencil—and '
discover the requisites for the contracting talents '
of He.tvy Frailey, at Germantown. may to.
Forty Dollars Reward. ,
RAN AWAY, on the 7th of April, a Negro t
Man, named Glafgtw, perhaps he may pass j
by the name of Ghfgo-w Lee, or may change his 1
name ; he is about thirty one years of age, nearly a
fix feet high, has a fear in the upper part of his un- r
derlip, a lmallpart being bitten out between the 1
middle and the corner of his mouth (I believe on c
the right fide), his left hand has be n very fore,
and was so at the time he ran away, by being burnt
some time pad : he is a ft out, drong fellow, and
has been employed at a saw mill a tew years: he
went away in company with a negro woman of
Mr. Jo(huaLingoe,of this county. It is supposed
they are gone into Delaware State. Any person
that secures said Negro Man in any gaol, that the
fubfciiber (hall get him again, (hall receive the
above reward. £SME BAYLY. 1
Stat# of Maryland, "> 2
Somerset County, april 10.3 may 4 —4W a
s
FOR SALE,
Two three story Brick Houses J
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. fituiteon
Water dreet, between Mulberry anl Saflafras
Street*) containing in front on Water dreet fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east- 1
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. Thcfe houses <
have the convenience of a public alley adjoin-
ir»g on the north ftde, and area very defirabiefit-
Uation for a a merchant, fleur fatf\or, or others
who may have occalion for lioragc of goods.
This property will be fold on very reasonable f
terms for cadi. For further information apply f c
to the printer. April $ m&w.tf
, TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH t, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN pursuance of the A& of Owgrffs palled on tht 6zth day of July one thousand seven hundred and
niuety-feven, extkled " An A£ laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Taper", and the
Adt paHx.-d.on the fifteenth day of December, one thousand seven hundred .and nwiety-fewß, entitled
" An Adt to podpone for a limited time the commencement of the duties imposed by the A & enti
tled 44 An AJI laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parehtnent and Paper", that from aud after the
fird day of July ensuing, the several Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and collec
ted throughout tic United StaMs.
For every (kin or picceof Vellum or Parchment, or (heet or piece of Paper, upon which lha.ll be
written or priuted any or either of the inllruments or writingslollowing—to wit:
Dls Cts. | Mis
Any Certificate of Naturalization, - 5
Any Licence to pra&ice,or Certificate of the admiflion, enrolment or regiftryof
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Proctor, in any Court of the
United States, - * • xo
Provided, that a Certificite in any one of the Courts of tbe United States
for one of the said Offices, (hall so far as relates to the payment of the
duty aforefaid, be a fufficient ad million in all the Courts of the United
States, for each and every of the said offices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority 0/ the United States
(except for lands granted for military services) - - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any such grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military services) - 2
Any Charter-Party, Bottomry, or Refpondentia Bond, - - I
Any Receipt or discharge for or on accountof anyLegacyleftby any Will or •-
ther testamentary inftrument,or for any (hare or part of a perfor.al estate di
vided by force of any statute of diftributiens, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceased, the amount whereof (hall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and (hall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, - - - 35
When the amount thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
(hall not exceed five hundred dollars, - - - 50
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollar*, the additional sum of I
Any Policy oflnfurance or mftrument in nature thereof, on any (hip, veflel or
goods insured from one didri& to another in the United States, 1$
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which
Insurance is made (hall not exceed five hundred dollars, • 15
When the sum insured (hall exceed five hundred dollars, * I
Any Exemplification, of what nature foover, that (hall pass the seal of any
Court, other than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furai(h for the use of the United States or some particular (late, - 50
Any Bond, bill single or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promiflory
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or made to or with the United States or any state, or for their
uferefpe<£\ively, - j - •
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, 15
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 50
And if above one thousand dollars, ----- yj
Prwidedt that if any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or notes (hall be fubj«& to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforefaid—viz. - - x
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 4
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollar 8, 10
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 20
If above one thousand dollars, - 30
Any Notes iflued by the banks now eftabliJhed, or that may hereafter be eftab
li(hed within the United States, other than the notos of such of the said Banks
as (hall agree to an annual composition, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders refpe&ively, according to
the following scale. - - -
On all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - -
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, 50
On all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - - - • I
On all notes above fiye hundred dollars, - %
Any Protest or other Notarial aft, -
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penlios, or to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for milittry services
performed in the late war, - - 25
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duticf, for less than
five hundred dollars, . - »- - - - X
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, a
For more than two thogfand dollars, - - - 3
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to he exported,
H from one diftrift to another diftriA of the United States, not being ih the
fame State, - - • 10
If from the United States to any foreign port or place, - - 2$
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effe&s, made in any
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chatteU distrained for
rent or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) 40
Any Certificate of a Share in any Insurance Company, of a (hare in the Bank of
the United States, or of any State or other Bank, - -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars, ...
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
11.
The dutiesaforelaid will be colle&ed and received by the Supefvifors, Infpe&ors aud other Officers
of Infpeilion, in the several Didri&s, Sttrveyo and Divisions of the United States, and by such other
perfonsas (hall from te time be specially appointod and employed by the Supervisors of DidriAs for
that purpose.
111.
The Supervifers of the several Diftriifts will, prior to the fird day of July ensuing, and as soon as
may be pra&icable, mark or {lamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Vellum Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment ef the said duties ; Or
(lamped vellum, parchment and paper n.ay at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be'ob
tained at the rates prescribed by law, by application to any Supervilor, Officer of lufpedion
or other person appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diftrids
GITEN under my Haui, at Philadelphia
the day and year abovementioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March IP. Secretary of tbe Trea/ury.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
March 7,oth. 1798.
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT byanafl of Congrcfs palled on the
19th day of March, 1798, the following
If alterations and amendments have been made to
- the a<fl patted on the 6th day of July 1797, en
's titled "An adl laying duties on Damped vel
r " lum, parchment and paper."
I.
The stamp duties on debentures or certifi
cates for the drawback of Customs or duties on
j Imports are repealed.
i IL
A discount at the rate of seven and one half
0 per Centum, will be allowed by the Supervisors
or Infpedlors refpe<ftively, to any persons other
than Officers of the Revenue, who may pur
chase it one time or procure to be ftamped,any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment or Paper, upon
\ which the duties lhall amount t* Teß Dol
-8 lars er upwards.
111.
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold at
the rates prefcribedby law, without any addi
tional charge or cxpenfe on account of the
price of Paper ; but for stamped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional price will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each (kin of Parch
ment, or Two Hundred Cents for each fkiß of
Vellum of medium size, which may be furnift
ed at the expense of the United States and pro
portionally for any lefler quantity.
Given under my bandy at Philadelphia, the
day and ye ir abovementioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
To be Let,
(And pofTeflion given on the ift of May)
A genteel three (lory brick House,
12 feet front, and 40 feet deep, with back buildings
and ftables,at prefer.t in the tenure of Major Jack
son. Enquire at 187 So«th Third ftrect.
April 2. §
The Co-partner{hip of the Subscribers,
TRADING UHDER THE FIRM OF
Joseph Davidson Ss* Co.
IS thin day diflolved by mutual consent, allthofe
having claims against said firm, are defircd to
render thoir accounts, and those indebted to make
payment to Jofrph Davidfon, who is duly autho
rised to fettle the affairs of *he concern.
JOSEPH J. MILLER.
JOSEPH DAVIDSON.
N. B. The Stores lit the corner of Market and
Fourth Streets are now to be let.—-Enquire of Jo
leph PavidJon,
april 16 w Jcsam
TO BE SOLD,
4°>939 acres of Land.
IN Greene County, Commonwealth of Pcnnfyl
vania, on the waters of Fifli and Wheeling
Creeks and Ten Mile Ran.
These Lands are fertile and well timbered, and
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten years for
five (hillings per acre ; pateited early in 1787, ex
cept ijoo acres, which were patented in 1791;
part of them were surveyed in 178 ;. The trail
is between the Ohio and Monongahela, very con
venient to water carriige ; about 19 miles from
the town of Walhington, from 14 to 16 from the
village of Greenefburgh and Wheeling,
On payment of one lourth of the purchase mo
ney, * reasonable credit will be given for the resi
due - Enquire of the Printer,
april 11. 5
TO BE SOLD,
26,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of New York, between the northern
bounds of Pennsylvania and the Sufquehanna
now, or late in the townftiips of Hamdcn and
Warreu and county of Warren.-
These Lands, their quality and situation,
are a very desirable objctfl for any man who means
to invest his money to advantage.
On payment of one third of the purchase mo
ney, a reasonable credit will be given for the resi
due. ' Enquire of the Printer,
april 2T. $
Country Residence.
A FAMILY who live Six Miles from the City,
wilh to receive two or three genteel boaid
ers. The Houfc is handsomely turnifhed; the
Gardens, Meadows and lLawn are beautifully laid
out, and well stocked with the eheiceft Fruit.
There arefeveral Musical Instrument*, amongst
which is a mod excellent patent Piano Forte. The
Family have a handfoire Coach, which may beat
the fertile of the whole.
The Coach House and Stables are most excellent
—the Water good—and the Air unequalled in the
environs of the Town.
For particulars enquire at the office of this Ga
zette. dtf may 16.
ADVERTISEMENT.
WHEREAS the fubferiber and his wife Jane
Hodgkinfon,haveby mutual consent agreed
to live separate and apart from each other fronf
bed and board, these are therefore to forewarn all
persons from trusting her on my account, as by
contrail (he is to fupportherfelffor the future, and
t am determined net to pay any debt of her con
tra Sing. SAMUEL HODBKINSON.
may ij: *jt»aw
■ Walhington, Commiifioners Office,
7tb May, 1798.
THE Commiftioners will receive j ropcfals *n
til the 10th of June next, for building in
h e the City of Wafhitigton, one of the Executive
Offices ior the United States, of the following
j. external dimenfions: —l4B feet in length, and
he S 7 feet 6 inches' in hrcadtb ; cellar walls 30
c . inches: firft story 33 inches ; and fccond story 18
inches | partition walls averaging 15 inches ; 'to
contain on the ground floor 14 rooms ; fame num
bc ber on the second story ; and in the roof 8 rooms,
with a paflage. The whole external of the build-
J j ing to be of stock brick ; the inside walls of hard
burnt brick ; cellars of bed foundation ft one, to
the height of the girders ; the outside walls, as far
as they (hew above ground, to the plinth, to be of
plain a Hilar free-A one ; soles of windows, fills of
doors and firing course, of free Hone. The house
to be covore j with cypress fiungles ; the rooms in
general to be 16 feet by 30, finifhed in a plain,
neat manner, of the best materials ; fix small
rooms to be groined.
A plan and elevation of said building, and bill
of particulars, are lodged in the office, for the in
fpe&ion of thole who may wi h to cootra& ; also,
a copy of said bill, at the office of Clement Did
dle, Esq. at Philadelphia.
Proposals, sealed up, will be received until the
20th June next, on which day, the board will
proceed to a « ra& with such person, as (hall ap
pear under al) circumstances. to offer the best terms.
Per order of the Commiflioners.
THOMAS MUNROE, CUrk.
ma y 11 aawtioje
Jult Published,
YOUNG, bookseller, Sccond-ftrectj
the corner of Chefrut-ftreet,
THE WORKS OF JOHN NEWTON,
LONDON.
A new edition, in 9 vols price i\ dols. neat-
bound, containing letters of Omicron and
Virgil, Cardiphonia, review of ecclesiastical his
tory, sermons, mefiiah, letters to a wife, Olney
hymns, and the life of Eliza CttnninghdAi.—
Each yf these parts may be had separate, and
such as have been supplied with W. Young's
ediiion in 6 vols, may, by fpeedy'application, be
furniffied with the 7th, Bth and 9th vols, at
dols.
lately Publijbed.
Baxter's Saint's Reft, by Faw- dtls.
cett, i2mo at 1
Beveridge's private thoughts,3 purts x imo 75
Christian (the) Parent, ixmo 50
~— Remembrancer, iamo 75
Christian world unmalked, do
Dickenfon's (of New-Jersey) familiar
letters, 13 mo 87 \
rife and progress, ißmo 50 a 6i\
sermons on education, iamo 44
sermons to young persons, do 6i~i
— <»n regeneration, ißm« . Bi£
Da vies sermons v 2 vols Bvo 4
Home's «ommentary on the book of
Psalms, 2 if
— ditto 3 vols Bvo % 50
a work highly admired by all <whe have
bad the advantage cf perujtng tt.
Hervcy Afpafio vindicated, iamo 75
Letters of certain Jews to Voltaire, Bvo 2
Walker's sermons, with Blair's life of
the author, a vojs Bvo 3
White's sermons, preached before the
University of Oxford, Bvo I so
Wynperfle on the true and eternal God
head of our Lord Jesus Christ, . 50 a6B
Sacred Biography, or the history of the
Patriarchs, by H. Hunter, ( 3 vols Bvo 6
A large aflbrfmertt of bible*, *ll folio, quarto,
iimo and pocket, at varioirs prices.
A large allowance to whofcfale purchasers.
Catalogues of books, with the prices of each
book annexed, are delivered as aforefaid.
t-
health office.
Philadelphia, ijf May, Ijtf.
Extract of an ad to alter and amend the Health
1 Commonwealth, pafled 4th April
s Se<a. 8- A ND b . c " further enaAed by the au
thority aforefaid, That every house.
' w- Cper f W L 1 thfi ci *7 Philadelphia, the town
' ? S j°a • J ort hc rn Liberties and MoyamsnfiHg,
and diftrid of Southwark, within a mile of the li- v
. mits cf the city, taking in boariers arriving by sea
or by land, from ariy foreign port or place, and ha
ving any boar<i#r in his or her family, who (hall be
taken uck of any disease whatsoever, between the
, hr,t da r of May and the firft day of November in
any year, within twenty days next after such boar
der fliali co-ne to lodge in his or her house, (hall
within i 4 hours next after the knowledge of fueh
Ucknefs. ma ke report at the Health Office of the
name of such lick perfoo, the time of his or her ar
rival at the house and of his or her being taken sick,
and of the naftie and place of abode of such houfe
n% PCr i whereu P on the Physician of the Health-
Olhce (hall forthwith visit the patient, and report
to the office his opinion of the nature of such dis
ease, that nieafures may be taken to prevent the
lpreading of the infedion; and if any housekeeper
all negled to give information in the manner and
W !a a timC aforcfaid » « nd Iballbe thereof con
yt'n an y court °f cr; winal jurisdidion within
this Commonwealth, upon indi&ment by verdift
or confeflion, he or (he (hall forfeit and pay a fine
to the use of the said hospital, not less than twenty
dollars, nor more than one hundred dollars, to be
imposed at the discretion of the court, according to
thecircumftances of greater or less aggravation at
tending each particular cafe.
By order of the Board of Health, ]
WM. ALLEN, Health Officer,
lawjm of the Port of Philadelphia.
Bafkenridge—for sale '
IT consists of 920 acres, almost all of which is
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the late
Esrl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided r
into five farms, four of which are bounded on the
Eall by the river Pafaick. a
There are on it a number of buildings, forming t
a square of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house n
is a v«ry convenient one.andja fmallexpence would c
put it in complete repair. d
The orchard consists of 1500 fintbearingeengra- t
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other parts of fa*d n
traA near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the a
best and noft delicious kinds. h
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and c
ForeftTreM, that add to ths beauty and eonveni- v
ence of the place. Its situation is about 18 miles o
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do. fc
from Morris-Town, and I a from Springfield—lt ft
is wooded and watered. c .
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre tl
in ca(h, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chefnut treet. -
February 2. eodtf
For Sale,
A Farm and Country Seat, f c
SITUATED oa the weft fide of the Schuylkill op- hi
pofite to Norris-town, seventeen miles from Phi- c<
ladelphia—the farm contains 195 sees ot land, 50 £)
ot which aie woodland, about 40 of m;adow, and
the »eil arable land. The house and garden which is .l
large and well paled, stand in the moil ple«fant situ
ation, commanding a view of iho river, an island
whicii i» opposite. and the village of Norris-town—
There is a (had fifhery belonging to the place.—»En- OT
quire in Philadelphia, No. 96, North Third Street,
or on the premises,
aprii 16 sawtf
The Cargo of the Brig Minerva
FROM BOURDEAUX,
tl- CONSISTING OP
in Claret inhhds.and Cases
re Oyl, Capers, Olivet, Anchovies and Prunes
g TOR SALE BY
id 7 homas Fitz/imons•
*o may 16.
£ tOR SALE,
_ »T THE SUISciIBtRS,
*, The Cargo of the Ship Richmond,
3* Captain Hathaway, from Bengal,
rd Gurrahs, wkitc Guzzies
to Ditto, blue Guzzenahs
ar Salums Emerties
of Gorahs Mow Sannas
of Mara 00 dies Peniafcoes
fc Tickiries Bafta%
in Romalis CofTas
n, Doreas Tanjebs
11 Chintz Malda Cloths
Saul Gazsies Carwah Cloths
11 An elegsmt mjfortment of
1 Madras Handkerchiefs
?' Benares SUGAR
COTTON and GINGER
e Mor dec at Lewis.
il may 25. daw jawiw
p* M AILS are now received from and
feat to the following places everyday
Sundays excepted.
Alexandria, Va. Havre de Grace, Md.
Baltimore, Ma. New Brurij wick, Jf. J;
Bladenfburg, Md. Newark, N.J.
» Boston, Ms. New Haven, C.
Bristol, Pa. New York, city.
Charleston, Md. Princeton, N. J.
Chester, Pa. Rahway, N.J.
t . Christiana, De. Trenton, N. J.
lt j Elizabethtown, N.J. Walhington, vity*
f. Elkton, Md Wilmington, D.
Georgetown, Ptk. Woodbridge, N.J.
_ Mails from Winehefttr, Va. are made up every
j Thursday A. M. and Friday half an hour be
• fore fuofet,
" May 11, 1798. ">
i General Port Office J eo<t
Rob aat Smith taf Co.
No. 58, South Front Jlreet.
HAVE received by the (hip Belvidere front
London, a quantity of Rufiia Goods, con
fiftin of Diapers, Drillings, Ravens-duck, &c.
And by the Fanny, arrived at New-York from
Glasgow, an aflortment of Scotch goods.
\ They have also on hand India Nankeens^
LuteOring», and a variety of India Muslins.
\ , djw
1 30 Dollars Reward.
' I 'HE Cellar ot the Subscribers was broke
-I- OJ:cn last night, and frveral pieces of Stor
mounf ground Chmtz of a set figure were car
ried nff. Whoever will apprehend the thief or
thieves, or recover the p««ds, (hill receive the
above reward, or in proportion for any part
thereof. ROBERT SMITH ixCo.
N<i South Front-Jircet.
m »y *3 daw
For Sale,
The cargo ofthebrij; American from Laguira,
CONSISTING OF
Ca<*accas Cocoa.
Henry Philips,
No. 111, Souch Fourth Street.
»!>»' $
FOR RALE, ~
A Black Man,
WHO has five years and a half to serve, is 2
good coachman, an excellent waiter, and
hasbeen accuilomed to marketing for a family
his age about thirty two year*. For further parti
- culars, apply at the office *f this Gazette.
*5- f
William Meredith,
I Attorney at Law.
HAS Removed to No. n-j Chefnut-ftreet,
where 1 itles to Real estates are examined
and Briefs thereof and Conveyances of every
kind, prepare;!. may 11 lavf^w
i Frefli I eas.
. Jufl Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sale, by
6AMUEL HOWELL,
At his Coupling House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,
AND BV
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Compting Houfc, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong, Hyson, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
also,
China Ware, assorted; black and coloured Lute
firings and Sattius, Nankeens, Cassia, iarg-s garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
whale-bouc flicks.
They have also For Sale,
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchiefs,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes*
march 8. $
Now Opening,
AtWiLLiAMM'LAwa Saddle Manufkftory,
No. 72, Chef nut Street, •
A general aflortment of Horfcman's
Pistols, direct from the Manufa&urers in Londoa-c
ALSO ON HAND,
oaddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartoueh Boxes, Va
lices, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
, A P ril 9 dtf
FOR SALE,
THE whole or one half of a PLANTATION"
on the river Delaware, between Burlington
and Bordenton (two miles from the latter), con
taining about 400 acres ; 60 of which are bottom
meadow, and »oo wood land ; there are 30 acres
of red clover to cut this year (exclusive of mex
dow) but will exceed 50 the next ; and any quan
tity of manure may be had for the upland from th«
meacow without injury.
An orchard of grafted fruit yielding between 60
and 70 hogftieads of excellent cider ; a dwelling
houfe with a barn, stable, granary and other ne
ceflary buil ings go with one part in <?af« of a di
vision ; on the other are no improvements, but ha»
one of the mod elegant situations for a house to be
seen on the river. The land is of good quality,,
fuitafcle for grating or agriculture, and convenient
to market by land or water. For terms apply t»-
the owner on the prcmifes.
Thomas St- John.
May 5 eodtf
FOR SALE.
A THREE Story Brick House, on the north
lide of Spruce-street near Second-street*
adjoining the wall of Mr. Jones's garden anth
formerly occupied by David Lenox, efq.—Thi»
house is incompleat repair with back buildings,
consisting of a Piazza, Kitchen and a hindfome
Dining Room over the Kitchen.
As any Person inclined to purchaCe will view
thepremifes,a wore particular deleription iscon
fidered unneceflary.
The terms of payment will be one third cash,
one third \u 6 months and the remainder in xx
months with intercft. For further information,
Enquire of JOHN CR AIG>
JV#. I a Dock-street.