Daily Advertiser.
Number 175 8. J
For Sale,
The new and faft failing
JKB&JOH2NN4 tucker,
HOW lying at Pine Street wharf—her length is
sixty eigjhKeet, breadth twenty feet fix laches,depth
aigbt feet nin* inches and burthen oj:e JmoSrcS -': d
iw>r t-/-# ton*. For terms uppVy to the Malic.
go board, or - i >
GSOXGS PUrMSTED,
No. 168, South Front Street.
• april a<6 § 4 t
just arrived;
In the brigdayofo.capt.Bingham,fromSt.Martins
A quantity of SAjLtY
of an exccellent quality
A f*w grpee Porter Bottles, new
And twenty casks Vinegar
A lf°> £° R SALE,
Enquire of
Jehu HoU'mgfworth £f Co.
■- , No. 41, Little Water street, South.
April to. 5
For Saltan the S.ipres of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut ftretft Wharf,
195 calks of nails assorted
jobile9 of fail canvafe, from No. I to 8
5 3 casts yellow rehre
15 tierces bottled porter, 6to 14 doz each
London particular ) Ma^ira W ines
India market )
Teneriffe do. ih hogfheadsand pipes
Old Port do. in hhds.
Empty Ctaret bottles
6 csfe<: of Ginghims, Dimities, Muflinets Ac.
aiTorted for the Weft-India market
4, 10, and 9
Writing fiates, ink lands and prsffes
20 ptircheofis Jamaica rum
I b»le feaminj twine
Is<J bundles (heathing paper
THE BRICS
AMAZON,;
Sale, or Charter.
Nickli'n C 3* Griffith.
April 7 tuth&f.tf
FOR SALE.
Sugar
200 Hides
Will be landed to morrow, at Willing and Fran
cis's wharf, from on board the brig Active* Will
iam Williams, matter.
And may take in immedi
ately after discharged.
Apply to
Jehu Hollingfwoi'th £3* Co.
march 30. §
For Hamburgh,
THE SHIP
Dominick.Terry,
J°^ n rkroing, Majler,
partoX&er
gagtfd.—For freight apply to
JeJft & Robert Wain.
February 26 $
Notice —Agreeably to charter,
Is hereby given to the members of " the cor
poration fcr the relief of pb«- and diftrefied
prelbyterian ministers arid the poor and diftrelTed
widows and children of prelbyterian ministers,"
that a meeting ,of said corporation is to be hold
etij-on the 16th day of May next, at 4 o clock
P.M. in the second presbyterian church in the
city of Philadelphia, for the dispatch of all such
Iwfitiefs as may then be brought before the
board. ASHBEL GREEN,
Secretary of the Corpoiation.
April 7. ■ tawti6m
Joseph Ricardo,
OF this City, Merchant, has assigned his pro
perty for the benefit of hi« Creditors, ts James
C. Filher, Samuel W.Fiihcr, and Thomas Wllfon.
All persons who have demands are re
queued to furnift their accounts without delay—
and those indebted to make immediate payment to
the-Stfbfcribters, ailing A Egnees.
James C. ££ Samuel IV. Fisher.
No. 13, Arch Street,
march u " tawtf
notice.
THREE Certificates of Six Per Cent. Deferred
Debt of the United States of the following
dafcription. viz No. 10033, 10034, and ioojj,
for cqoo dollars»ach» dated Bth May,
flan.ingon the books of the Treasury of tlfffe Urn
ted States, in tlie name of Benjamin Waddington,
of Lanover House, near in England,
Elq. have been loft hy the capture of the Ihip Bac.
chu=, frpm hence to London, in June .ail.—l nis,
therefore notifies those whom it may concern, that
m lication will be made at the Treasury of the U
nitedStatesiora renewal of the fame.
Waddington Iff Harivood.
march 11
MESSAGE
Of the Prtjident of the United States,
To both Honfes of Congress,
AraiL 3, '9B
* With the Dispatches from the Envoys of
the United States at Paris,
Which accompanied tpe Same.
FOR SALE
At tio. 63 North 3d llreet, at Way &GrofT's
Printing-office, N<i. 27 Arch (Irect, and at the
cftc- of the Editor, So. itQ, Chefnu-llreet
Canal Lottery —No. IL
WILL commence drawing Monday, the 10th
iaft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Smm DaihUf, at Wm - BLACKBURN's I-ottsry
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-flreet—
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
-litiltrri, where check hcoksare kept lor rUgifter
in" atid exianioii'i; in these. the City of W'aCiing
'ou, No. 11.and Patttfrfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets maybe had in moll of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
UtiitH). „ • , 1
N B The bmfinefsof a Broker,
-ftPinV ill kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
Hifto.MteiT Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
■ J Hnk Houses, &e.&C.w :! !bedu'y attended to,
b y ' WM, BLACKBURN.
t §
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, APRIL 28, 1798.
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY ZF&NIXG, APRIL 28.
PHILbsOPIIICAL SOCIETYT
At a ftsted meeting ol the merican Philofo
pbkal Society, held at their KjH, on the icth
April, the following persons Wre mem
bers of the foeiety:
W2ham Patterlon, M. D. of Londonderry, ir.
Ireland.
J. B. ScandelU, M. D. of Venice, now in the
United States.
John Frederick Blumenbach, M. D F. R. g.
ProfelTor of Natural History la theUniverfitv
of Goqttingen.
The following Communications and Dona
tions have been received by the society:
Communications.
A letter, written hy James Snllivjn *f Bos
ton. fuggeflinga mode of fypplyiug the city of
Philadelphia with water.
An Efiay, "Towards discovering the best
method, founded on experiment, for preventing
the premature decay of Peach Trees offer
ed for the premium on preserving peach trees.
A Communication concerning the Yellow
Fever—By M. Varle.
Donations.
Essays, Literary, Moral, and Philofphical, by
Benjamin U tifo—Prefentedby the author.
General View, or Ahftradl of the Arts and
Sciences, adapted to the caj.acity of youth.—
Prefentedby Mr. Moreau Sr. Mery.
Colletflions for an ElTay towards a Materia
Medica of the United States—By Benjamin S.
Barton, M. D. Presented by the author.
Hints designed to promote Beneficence, Tem
perance, and Mediral Science—By Dr. Lettfom
of London. Presented by the author.
A Hand Threshing Machinei invented by
Thomas Martin of Virginia. Presented by Mr.
Jeflerfnn.
Puhl.'lbed by order of the Society,
SAMUFL A. SM?VH,
One ef the Seci etaiies.
STATE OF NEW-YORK.
AN ACT
To enalle Aliens tofurchafe and hold real efiates
•iuithin this State, under certain reftridions
therein mentioned
fPaJJed id April, 1798. J
BE it enafted by the people of the State of
New-York represented in Senate and Af
lembly, That all and every conveyance or
conveyances hereafter to be made or execu
ted to any alien or aliens, not being the sub
ject or fubjedts of some sovereign State or
power, which ig or Ihall be at the time of
iiich conveyance, at war with the United
States of America, shall be deemed valid, to
vest the estate thereby granted in such alien or
aliens; afld it shall and may be lawful, to and
for, such alien or aliens to have and to hold
the fame, to his, her, or their heirs and af
(igns forever 1 , any plea of alienism to the con
trary notwithfhtnding ; Provided always,
That it (ball not be lawful for any such alien,
or the heirs or alligns of any-such alien, being
aliens, to reserve any rent or.service whatso
ever, upon any grant, lease, demise or con
veyance whatsoever, to be made of any such
lands or tenements ; and all rent's, payments,
fences or reservations y.'hafloever, which
Tlratl he ixlrrtr«a xrr nidUc p>l Wt'Jl cnlu l IWj , wv
in consequence of any futn grant, de
mile or conveyance whatsoever, of any such
lands or tenements, flialj be utterly void, and
of no effeth
And be it further ehaftcd. That all and-e
---very deed or deeds, conveyance or conveyan
ces, to be executed in pu-rfnnnce of this aft,
lhall be recorded within twelve months after
the day of date of the fame, in the Sec'ry's
office of this State ; and in default thereof, the
grantees named in any Inch de«d or convey
ance, (hall be confidercd in all refpefts as a
liens, and the linds and tenements thereby
conveyed, fh-a-U inure to the use of the people
of this State. *
Andbe it further enabled, That this aft (ball
be, and remain In force, for the term of three
years, front and after the parting thereof, and
no longer.
Secretary's Office, of the State of New-
York, 7th April, 1798. I certify the
preceding to be a true Copy of an Art
of the Legislature, now 011 file in this
Office, as amended by an aft, palled
sth April, 1793.
JASPER HOPPER, Deputy Secretary.
GEORGE-TOWN, (Potomac) April 24-
At a numerous and refpeftable meeting
of the citizens of George-Town, held On
Saturday last, agreeably to a previous notice
Col. Lloyd Beall, Mayor, was appointed
Chairman; when the following resolutions
were unanimously agreed to.
Resolved ; that in the opinion of this
meeting ; the Executive of the Un ited
States, in their inftruftions to our Ministers
in France, afford the molt unequivocal evi
dence of a sincere desire to promote and per
petuate an honourablepeace with the French
Republic.
Resolved. that although peace with all
nations is justly dear to this country ; yet
that the preservation of its Honour and In
dependence is the firft national objeft, and
ought therefore to be considered infinitely
more estimable.
Resolved, that this meeting fee 1 it a duty
to express in the strongest terthi, their con
fidence in thewifdom, virtue and patriotism
of the constituted authorities of their coun
try —their reliance that at this eventful pe
riod, their deliberations will beinfluenced by
a pure regard to the happiness and prosper
ity of the nation:—A<id that, whatever
difference of opinion may exist among us,
ift regard to our internal >nd dofneftic regu
lations ; ft ill if the neceflijy of a solemn ap
peal to armsfhould be imposed upon us, A
merica, so far from shewing herfelfa degra
ded and divided people, wiU exhibit to the
world, an example as unanimity and patri
otism not to be exceeded.
Resolved, that the chairman ©f this mee
ting b£ inftrufted, to forward to the Re
presentative of this diilrid, a copy of thele
refokitioiK; with a rcqueft, that he will
communicate the fame to the Prefideiit and
Congress of the United StaUs. *
By John Ff.nno, N°- 119 Cbcjrmt Street.
FORE IG N ARTICLES.
LONDON".
The following 4 advertilement, which is
literally*copied fro "a New-York Paper of |
September the 7th, contains, in our opinion [
one of the fevtreft censures on tlje Slave
Trade, and fuj-nifhes an tjnar.fvvcrablc arga
meut for the speedy abolition of k.
For Sale.—" A healthy Negro' Wcneb,
Sixteen years old. She is capable of all
kinds'of work, and will'be fold cheap for
cash, or will be exchanged for a fafhionable
riding-chair, or merchandize, as the owner
is leaving the slate.—Apply at No. 2 Ce
dar-street, from Bto 9 m. or from 3to 4
p. M."
The French Rafts have found their way
into the caricature fhtips ; and to render
the de'fign perfeft, four winJmills are ereft
ed at each corner of them as emblems of
ihis Quixotic plan.
Mungo Parke, the gentleman employed
by the members of the African afTociation,
to explore the interior of' Africa, arrived in
I London on Christmas-Day.
Mr. Parke, we understand, fully confirms
the account given by major Hooghton of
the population and extent of the city of
HoufTa, which lies 011 the great river near
Tombuftoo. From the extraordinary dis
coveries of Mr. Parks, the British merchant
may anticipate vast fonrces of wealth. This
traveller has penetrated tarther into Africa
than any European living. Thf inhabitants
of the city of HoufTa, twice a» large and
twice as populous as London, are exceed
ingly partial to those fpecnrni-us of the F.n
glifh manufadlures which Mr.Parke presen
ted to them.
A new map of England has been pufclifh
ed at Paris, with the manner in which it is
intended to be parcelledout whenthe French j
get pofTeffion of the country. This is fell
ing the bear's skin bcfoie it is caught with
a vengeance.
The Executive Dire&ory has intimated
to the Kihg of Sardinia, that though by a
former Treaty it was flipulated that his
three fortrefTes of Alexandria, Coni, and
Tortona, should be restored to him at a ge
neral peace on the Continent, circumstances
will not allow them to keep to their engage
ments. We understand that the fortrefs of
Alexandria is to be given to the Cisalpine
Sa B s Culottes.
For the prefenr, we are relieved from ap-;
prehension for the fate of Hamburgh. Ac-'
cording to private letters, it appears thatthe i
French Jacobin CommifSnner, Leonard j
Bourdon, has been charged to demand of'
the Senate three propositions :—Firft, The j
expulsion of the French emigrants from the j
city and territory of Hamburgh—which
has btfen acceded to. Secondly, The future
prohibition nf thy, iirypaitu-iiiq q(
goods—which has been reftifed tho' it re
mains to be seen how far the Senate will be
able tofdpport its neutrality. Thirdly, The
demand of a Loan, which will probably be
agreed to. Every one knows what is meant
by a French Loan, neither the principal
nor interest of which is ever meant to be
repaid. Happy are the lenders who are not
requited by a Revolution, as has been the
cafe at Genoa, Venice, and other places. On
the 16th. every thing was quift at Ham
burgh, which does nut appear to have been
under any very extraordinary alarm.
The "pcrjiiiiovsaud cruel Cnurtof Rome
What has it done ? defeated a coafpiracy a
gainfl itfelf, in which a French General has
fallen a viftira to the cruel perfidy of Jaco
bininifm, which is plotting and revolting in
every state and city of the Continent.—But
has it violated the privilegei of the Ambaf
fador'gHotel ? General Duphot was killed'
out of one of the gates,of Rome, whither"
he had been driven aktngwith the Infurgenta
whom he headed.
No wonder the Jacobins throughout the
world cry eagerly for peace. What do they
mean by peacebut thejririfdiSion of a Freneli
Hotel, the head-quarrers of conspiracy,
and the command mi French Generals in
their Infurreftions ?
Thj French Minister for the Home De
partment announced lately, in a letter ad
dressed to the Central admioilhation, the
formation of an efta'blifhment f«ir curing ra
dically every species of madness. Unless
this establishment comprizes the whole ex
tent of the Republic, it will hardly be fuf
ficiently large to contain all the French Re
publicans afflifted with that disease, nor an
swer the purpose of radically curing mad
ness in France.
French Liberty of Speech.
The following passage is extracled fren
tile late Proclamation of the Commissioner
of th« French Direftory at Calais, which
would no daubt better suit the history of the
Inquisition in Spain, than that of a people
who eminently pretend to be free. " Be
sure, Citizens, that Government knows tv
ery thirig, and fees every thing. Private
circles, inns, taverns, ordinaries, nothing
efcapas its vigilance and penetration. Men
may augur fafety from its silence, without
being aware that'this silence maybe ground
ed »n the con viftion, that, trulling to their
pretended fafety, the guilty will pufli for
ward in the career of crimes* until at last
they surrender themfrlves into the hands of
justice. Ye, too, will render yourselves
criminal, who fuffer an unconftitutionaPlan
guage to be held in your houfeswithout de
nouncing it. Informed of this iueivifm,
the Dire&ory will cause those to be brought
to punifhmcnt who do not denounce their
neighbours-"
Surely there was 00 occasion topull down
tlie and to cast. much odium on
the ancient police of Paris,, if they were to
be replaced by a code which authorizes pro
ceedings so Uncommonly vexatious ;/nd cru
j el, as to punifti citizen? not only for hoU-
I iiig cenforiou? language agaiim the govern
ment', tut Qlfofor.not^tftiouiK. - ".' i..
March 3.
A fiirttxnor o£ devcyee was given on
Thursday, fn Do&drs' Com'm&hs between
ths Hon. Mr. and Mrs. Twifk'ten.
A fire broke out on Thur'fdjy at Chiffall
near Barkway, in EfTex, which deflroyed
the whole villge, except four honfes. It
broks qj!t in a new house adjoining the
Diflentiftg Meeting, which was building
for the preacher. The Chnrch was much
damaged, all the pews were burnt. ""
On Wednesday last. a curious race was
run between a blacksmith and a barber, in
the ropery at Berwick, which afforded in
finite diversion. Vulcan, tied in a sack,
was to run but rather fhuffle, over 400 yards
and the Shaver at perfeiS liberty, was to
traveife 2000. The forpier in the techni
cal. phrase. won by half a neck, altho gh
he had two tumbles. The lime did not ex
ceed eight minutes and a .half.
BRITISH PJRLIMENT.
HOUSE of COMMONS.
February 23.
Captain sir Sidney Smith.
Mr. Hafkiffon, after contrasting the dif
ference of treatment between French pri
soners here and 'BriiiJh prifoncrs in France,
drew the attention of the hoiife to the con
dition of the gallant Sir Sidney Smith, who
■Was yet confined in a solitary dungeon, and
exposed to every want, <1 ifgraae, ignominy
and insult. In order to shew that it was
our wilh to alleviate, and that of the French
i to aggravate the calamities of war, he mov
ed that there be kid before the house a co
py of the correspondence with the French
commissioners relative to the exchange and
treatment of Sir Sidney Smith.
Captain Berkley seconded the motion.
He lamented the absence of those gentle
men who had so pathetically addrefled the
house on the imprisonment of La Fayette.
The cruelty of the French to his brother
officer Sir Sidney Smith, was beyond all
example in civilized states. Had these gen
tlemen who expressed so much feeling for a
foreigner with whom they had no concern,
; no feeling fog. the gallant officers of their
: country ? He agiin lamented the absence
! of the patriotic he had alluded
! to, but he hoped their absence was occafi
j oned byr shame and contrition. He hoped
j those gfntlemen would shew as much hu
| manity for their countrymen fighting their
battles, as they had formerly done for the
enemies of their country !
Colonel Stanley slated his personal know
ledge oITTTC trcairwmx of trie rretrcn prf
foners at Plymouth. There are 6000 of
them furnifhed with the fame provisions as
tlie? garrifon-*-had theTr 6wn surgeons, and
British surgeons also, whenever they chose
to call for them. Tiiey had three billiard
tables ; and to show they were not in bad
spirits, they had dramatiq representations
once a week.
The motion war. then agreed to.
This being the last day of hearing private
petitions, a great number of them were
presented. Adjourned.
Le&ures upon rhe Human Mind,
TENDING TO ESTABLISH A
NRW PRACTICAL SYSTEM OF REASON,
Diverte 1 of all unintelligible Mc:aphyflcs, and
founded'upon the true andonlt li'affs of intel
ligible Physics, as efficient ill tin con'-'u<ft
0f Human Life, to Science, Bufinrfs, or
Happinefii, and competent to -all the
purpose* of human
T" HEY will !>a compr/zco m tvrdve Lecture*,
iL pieceded by an Introduaory Discourse, and
divided into four parts The lirft part wilt con
tain the Discipline of the Thought—The fecund,
the Bifctpime' of the Faculties—The third part,
the Discipline of Rcafon, or the adjuftmeni of the
relations of thought to the relations of Thing! in
th: Conllitution of Nature—The Jail part will
contain three discourses on Education, Language,
and Human Knowledge.
Thcie Le&ureK will commence on Tuefd.ty, ift
May, a; O'fillers' Hotel; and be continued I hurf
day and Saturday evenings atf'Bo'tl'ocV, till their
termination. Tickets for t.he whole course, three
j dollars, to be had at the Hotel—No occasional
entrance will be permitted.
Mr. Stewart havingeihaufledalljiis property
in pursuing the mofl extenGve and beneficent tra
vel, ever undertaken by man (not round the
world, but through the woflii) to discover the
most important of .11 objects.— l',se Source of hu
man Mappinefij. and MifVry, or, Truth and Error
has 3 high and svetl founded ciiim upon the public
for lupport, encouragement and fnbfiftence. Po
ets, Players, Authors, curious and partial travel
ler*, fcarching at cr ftathers, fiih hooks, fbffils and
faSiion«, have all found patrons amongst the great
and rich ; but the Univ.-rfal Travi Her, or Man of
Nature, mull have an atias for hi* patron, formed
by all thti liberality, all the worth, and all the
understanding of an enlightened republic.
_april 24. tt&B
A Premium of 100 Dollars
WILL be paid by the Bank of Pennsylva
nia, for futh Flan of a Banking House,
accompanied with fe&ions and elevations, as may
be approved of by the Dire&ors. The building is
not intended to exceejl 60 feet front, or too tret
in depth, and to be f<> planned as to admit ol o.
being m.nde fire proo». It in requeiled that the
plans may be fen; to the Calhier o: tleß-nk, pre
vions to the firft of June next.
a r r 'l '9 tnrlut IJe
For Sale,
r Tf Hl', time of a NIiGUO LAD, v.-ho has a
1. bout three years to ferve—H.- is perfectly
capable of anil used to all kinds rtf houfr work ;
has 3lfo been ?cc»ftntnt:t.t to wait at table. A
purchaser in tl"* envutty would be prj
ierred. £nquh< pi'ihe Printer.
AjirTl la. cod,jvv
CONGR £ S S.
HOUSE or REPRESENTATIVES.
' • | *-*
Thursday, April 19.
Tlie House being in a committee oftli« whol?
on the state pj the union, Mr. Ukn r in tii^
chair, oil the bill to provide an add^toutiiftr*
maauwtt for the protection of the
trade of the Umtcd States, and for other
pnrpof'es.
[Concluded from our lap. J
Mr. Gai,i,Ati\ believed it woold now b«
in Older to renew the queitiwn whkjfc had been
waved, with respect to the employment of
these veflels. He should, therefore, in order
to bring this fubjecl tinder view, more an a
inendment in tly firft fe£tion of the bill,
nearly in the fame words as the one which had
at firft been adopted by the house at the last
session in the bill relative to the equipping and
fitting for sea the frigates, viz. " provided
thef fiiall not, in time of peace, be employed ai
convoys to tiny foreign port or place." The
wjcrds " in time of peace" were not in the a*
nfendment of last yepr ; but as he conceived
that tlie veflels authorised to be procured by
this bill, were either to be employed for the
defence of our coast and ojtr trade within our
jurifdiclion, in the present state of things, or
for general purposes of atiack and dc'fencc iri
cife of war, he wished only fiich amendment
to be adopted as would be proper in either
cafe. If there was war, let the 1 vellels be ap
plied in the >noft efficient way; but if they
were intended tc> be nfed as eonvoys under
our present circilmftances, he was govng to
(late that such ah employment woitlci inevita
bly change present fta-fe of things.
But before he took, this ground, lie woultf
make fasie obfervatiofis on the r«al advanta
ge* chill might refflit frayn employing theft
vellels as COnvdys ill the actual ttaie of things,
supposing even it was not »-hangetl hyTh*t em
ployment. Whoeverhadcontidered the ex
tent of our coast, and the nature ©f ourtrade.
must be convinced that 11 (hips cannot be
employed to any great purpose as convoys.
To what part of the Globe were they to be
convoys ? To the Well-Indies, or to Eu
rope > It could not be intended to convoy
vessels from our own ports to an European
port with these vessels ; it could not be sup
posed that they would be able to cope with
vetfels of war in the European seas. Tile
object of this convoy, then, must be our ves
sels to the Weft-Indies. But he asked whe
ther this force would be fufficieilt for that
purpose, or whether the trade to the Weft
indies was offuch a nature as to be suscepti
ble of being convoyed ? There are a varie
ty of fmatl ports in the Weft-Indies, and
merchants endeavour to take advantage of the
best markets j their vessels, therefore, fail
singly and not in companies. He believed
the only use to which these vefTels could be
applied with any effe£t so as to protect our
trade, would be by attacking privateers to
drive them from the coast ; but this was by
all agreed to be an act belonging to an attuai
state of war in which we were not yet plung
ed.
As to the right of convoy in Neutral Nati
ons, it was a right at lcaft of a doubtful na
ture. He believed it had been exercised ;
but not in an.effeitual manner, except bv
iim itimr-rvrcr; tire TjeTTige
rent powers were unwilling to provoke
them ; but wherever belligerent powers were
riot afraid of being involved in war with the
nations employing fueh convoys, Ihey have
dilregarded them. This fail was elucidated
by the Armed Neutrality, which on account
of the maritime ffrength of the Powers con
cerned and of the apprehensions of Grea'-
flntain was theq refpefted But the puxtii
convoys never were regarded by the Bririfh
and Mr. G. quoted an inflance where a whole
Dutch fleet and convoy were taken into port
by the Englifli wh» at that time were at peace
with them.
But the qlieftion with him, Mr. G fa : d
was not so much the right, as the policy of
the measure. Supposing that neutral powers
have a right to grant convoys to their trade
the object of filch a convoy, according to the
sea 1011 of the bill which had beefl ft ruck out,
was " to secure and .maintain the independent
rights of commerce an.l navigation which
the lawsoi nations and the ItipiiUtionsVf trea
ties acknowledge and faction." This must
be the objeft ot'eonvoysin time of peace, ard
the question was, whether it would be good
pol.cy to grant ac< ' oy to secure these rights.
Wejuiow, that, in (he present cafe, aIT the
belligerent powers have not only violated th<>
laws ot nations, but ftijHilations of treaties •
and to attempt to fecurc these rights by con
voys, is precifelv to fay, we mean to smploy
violence to repel tlrcfe aggretlions; it is to all
intents aT.d purposes to go to war. It is not
thu cafe in the present European war, as in
common wars, that the laws of nations and
treaties are toterably tfell refpetted by the
different belligerent powers. In this war
both the belligerent powers have declared
from the begin,ling, they would not refpecc
the laws of nations and treaties. On this ac
count he had before declared, that Fran-a
had given us just cause os-war ; but if Con
gress do not think proper to go to vuir. ihey
ought not to grant these vessels as convov/,
which would be i» fact war.
The question is, whether we shall bear with
the lofTes which must result from capture in
the present state or things, or refill them with
force and war ? *
Mr. G. said he knew the question of wrr
did not depend altogether upon this country
He knew that it was pollible that within three
months we might be in a state of war • and if
the house thought it to have the
veflejs built to be ready to meet such a ftat~
of things ; the amendment w ent only to ore"
vent them beifig uled so as to involve us bv
our own ait in war.
He had said that from the beginning of th
prefent European war, the belligerent pavers
had set alide the laws of nations and ftipula
tions ot treaties. At the very be^imm/,,V
the war, Great-Britain" entered imo tie-1t,..
1 with Raffia, the Emperor, Spain and Pri.fli ,'
and inserted an article into each, to deolar'
that not only they themferves fhoiild do ail in
the.r power t 0 Fiance, but that'they
Ihould pre\ ent all other countries givij ir iv,.,
afliffaiice' by virtue dftlieir nhiVniUtv F\<h>
G. read the article, from the treaty'emere.?
into with Uuflia, dated the 25th 0 f Mirch
1
powers had atted in confu'rinity to tins cierb
ration. I he-Briti«. orders I( ,| No!
vem.'er 1793, >Vept 3Ued on th>t'prncipk.
{Volume XIII.F ranee had also behaved in a dill more extra
ordinary manner. It was immaterial, in the
present conflderation, to enquire whether
Great. Britain or France was the firlt to break
the laws of nations ; the fa£t is, that all the
different belligerent powers have at times in
fringed them ; and even the last arrivals from
Europe bring accounts (which though not
official, carry every appearance of being true)
of inftruttions given to the commanders of
British vessels of war, which are dire£t viola
tions of the laws of nations and of treaties.
It it true, that at present the infringements
of the laws of made by France are
vastly more oppreflive, and in their conse
quences far mors extensive and injurious to
our trtfSß than those of any othernation ; but
it is not less true, that until we do deem these
infringements fufficitnt cause of war, we
ought not to enter into any meaftires which
will in their effeCts amount to the fame thing
as a£tual war. To grant convoys is such a
measure ; and before that is done, it ought
to be confiflered \yhether in a date of war, We
should be in abetter foliation than at present.
Mr. G. was aware be should at once be met
with an exclamation, What I Will you not
protest our commerce i Are you not bound
to protect jt ? So far as this complaint was
considered in a local point of view, he tho't
it unfounded. He had heard it said, and re
peated, that those stateS which are more com
mercial than others, would not quietly fit
down under the negleCt, if protection was not
given to commerce. So far as'relates to the
eadem dates, he believed they had no greater
reason to complain than foine other dates on
this ground. Wliilft on this floor, Mr. G,
/aid, he torfidered himfelf as a reprefentatiye
of the whole union, and bound to attend to
the protection and to the interests of every
part of the United States; but if the matter
was to be considered on local ground, the
middle states had as.g'reat right to complain
as the eastern; and therefore no reasons of lo
cality could induce him to give the vote
which he proposed to give, since the state of
Pennsylvania and New-York have as much
interest in commerce as the eastern (fates. The
total ainouAt of the tonnage of the fyur east
ern ftjtes employed in foreign trade is 248,000
tons, an,d that of the states of Pennsylvania
and New-York 195,000. Thereprefentation
of the eastern flares on this floor, compared
with the dates of New-York and Pennsylva
nia (which was the bed criterion of their' re
speCtive population) is as 27 to 23, and the
proportion of foreign tonnage betwixt them
is as 27 to 2ii. Tjiere was therefore no sen
sible difference between them
The question was, which was the bed way
of protecting our trade, in our present folia
tion. Government was bound to protect all
its citizens, in whatever occupation they
ohufe to follow ; but its power of proteftion
is redraincd to a certain extent. In this in
flance, indead of convoys protecting our
trade, they will be the destruCtion of it ; for,
.if by «ny a£t of ours, war is produced our
trade would be in a worse situation than at
present, bad as it is.
But he would examine to what extent our
present injuries go, and how convoys would
apply.
Convoys were to apply more fpecifically in
two cases, viz. where a seizure was attempt
ed for want of a role d'equipage, or whe«e, ac v
cording to the late French decree, our vessels
have Briiifli manufactures or produce on
board. He had never examined to fee how
far the demand with respeCt to the role d'equi
page was an infringement of our treaty with
France. He had taken it for granted that
if it were juftified by our treaty, it was
now made a mere pretext for seizure, *be
caufe our treaty had been in force since the
commence of the war, and this ground had
never been taken till lately. But upon this
fubjefl, he would observe, that almod all the
mifchief which could be done had been done,
fornAUV ut ifurfi y1 jy ay Oln vciTtrnrCcrcrtil
now always furnifh themselves with themj
lie did not think it necefl'ary, therefore, to
grant convoys for this purpose.
So far as relates to British manufactures be
ing good prize, he agreed with the gentleman
from Virginia (Mr. Nicholas) that we oughts
to take into consideration the extent of our
trade to that country, not only our export
trade, but our returns from thence. Thesf
feCt bf the French decree will be either to
raise the price of infuranc.e much higher upon
our own veflels, or the carrying trade will be
carded on in Britifli vessels. But great as
would be, he believed it would be
better to bear with them than go to war.
The only evil n one inltance will be, that the
confumcr will ihave to pay the additional rate
of insurance, and lie would much rather do
this tlutn change our present situation. For
in cafe of war, not only all British manufac
tures will be equulfy liable to captures ; but
all our trade will be in the fame situation.
And wi'l any gentleman fay, that there will
be less captures on #ur trade in a state Of war,
than in our present Itate ? Is it to be supposed
•that these twelve vessels, with the three fri
gates, and all the vessels we can build and
inan, will proteCt.our trade, so as to reduce
our captures below their present number ?
He not. He believed that in a state
of war, more captures would be made, as not
only the vessels which are now captured under
different pretences, would still be captured,
but that part of our trade which now escapes
capture, will then befeized.
- The amount of our exparts, Mr. G. said,
was 51 millions. Out of those 51 millions,
84 are feut to Great-Britain. Though this
is the amount, according to the statement
from the propei depaitment, the gentleman
from S. Carolina (Mr. Harptr) has said, that
considerable quantities of goods sent to the
British Weft-Indies, have been entered at the
cultom-houje as for the French Weft-Indies,
in order to avoid capture ; but it had also
been stated by a gentleman who mud be sup
posed to be better acquainted with commer
cial fubjefls than him (Mr-S. Smith) that
full as many goods were entered forthe French
Weft-Indies, intended forthe English, as in
the other cafeT It was, at all events, only an
assertion, which ought not to lessen the cre
dit of an official statement.
On the other hand, it appears by this efti
niate, that to the amount of 25 millions of
dollars is exported to France, Spain and Hol
land. This, in cafe of war, will doubtless be
cut off. And if we are not at liherty to export
that portion ofour produce thither, what mud
be done with it ? The only country to which we
shall have a free trade will be Great-Britain
The effeCt ot this will be, to fink the price of
our produce ; because the whole is not want
ed and cannot be confomed in Great-Britain,
and die ii flint out from those ports to which
we now fend it. Independent, therefore, of
additional captures, that immense American
tonnage, which it is intended to protect,
would at once be reduced to one tlurd of
what it now is, for want of a market for our
produce.
Nay, in addition to these 25 millions, our
trade to the Hanfe Towns will also be de- 1
ftroyed, as it is well known w hat was the situ
ation of Hamburgh, so that, in cafe of war,
the whole of ottr trade will be cut off, except
■4) millions to Great-Britain and her domini. 1
I* ons, and a few millions to Sweden and Den- i
mark. He could not, therefore, fee, how the |
granting of a convoy could protect pui(coni
merce, wheu the effect tniifl be war, which
will deftTOy it.
The gentleman from S'. Carolina (Mr.
Harper) yederday told the committee, that
the effeCt of not granting convoys would be,
to give the whole of our carrying trade to
Great-Britain. He wished to know, if this was
to be the effeCt of not granting convoys, what
would be the effeCt of war ? The moment we
go to war, we give to Great-Britain the whole
of our trade. But the gentleman went on to
I tell the committee, what France would fay to
this country next, if we did not resist her.
I He (aid die would tell u«, You diall no longer
go to Hamburgh, or to any other place at
which you get money for your produce, be
cause you will pay that money to G. Britain
for her manufactures. If this would be the
1 cafe, jn we declined granting convoys,
he wiftied t)) know what would be the effect
'offcrafr? Was it expected that France would
give more latitude to our trade in cafe of ac
tual war than at present (
When gentlemen spoke of the immense in
crease of our tonnage from 450,000 to 800,000
tons, did they consider to what this increase
was owing? it hasbeen pwing to our neutra-
has taken place during the present Euro
pean war. whilst the tonnage of Great-Britain
employed in the trade oLthis country, has by
the effect of that war, drcreafed from 206,000
tons, which it was in 1792, to 19,600, which
it was by the last returns at the end of 1796. i
Seeing, therefore, that notwithstanding all
the captures mafle of our vessels, our tonnage
has increased from year to year ; in order to
save that valuable tonnage, and to afford eve- !
ry pofiible protection to it, if that was the on
ly objeft of the house, they mufl wish the pre
sent date of things to subsist in preference to
a state of war, and mtift therefore refrain from
taking steps which cannot fait to produce war.
It was not only his opinion that the grant
ing of convoys w»uld lead to war. The point
has been conceded. For what did the gen
tleman from S. Carolina (Mr. Harper) state
convoys were wanted ? He said they were
wanted against the depredatory decrees of the
French—the role d'equipage and the decree
making veflels with British manufactures on
board, legal prize. He said it was to resist
these decrees. He went farther, he said, they
ought to be resisted at the mouth of the can
nun. If.capture was to be resisted at the meuth
of the cannon, without war, he ccruld not un
derltand it. If he understood the gentleman
from Maffaclmfetts (Mr. Otis) he went still
farther, and said that he would resist aJearch.
And certainly the.moment a principle of this
fort was a (Turned, it was nothing more or left
than war. Unless indeed fouie unintelligible
metaphysical distinCtion should be attemped
betwixt./fgA«'»£and toar. It, then, it is better,
as a matter of calculation, to be in the present
ftateof things than at war) were there any
other considerations, which ought to set aside
this matter of calculation ? The committee
were told by the gentleman from S. Carolina,
that if we did not resist, France would go on
Itep byftep, in her course of aggredions against
this country. This is mere matter of specu
lation. It is poflible France may go 011 in this
way. if (he goes on to make war upon us,
then let our veflels be used in their full pow
er. Let us not, however, said he, ait on spe
culative grounds ; but examine our prelent
situation, and if better than wiir, let us keep
it.
The committee have been told, that this
doCtrine, is a doCtrine ot fubmiflion. The
gentleman called war by the name of resist
ance, and they gave the appellation »f abjeCt
übmiflitn to a continuance of forbearance
under our present losses and captures. He
affixed a different idea to the word fubmiflion.
He would call it fubmiflion to purchase peace
with money—he would call it fubmiffien ts
stvcui fee fgnmiiinious terms of peace—he
would call it fubmiflion to make any acknow
ledgments unworthy of an independent coun
try. He would call it fubmifhon to give up
by treaty any right which we possess. He
would call it fubmiflion to recognize by treaty
any claim contrary to the laws of nations.
But there is a great difference betwixt surren
dering by treaty our rights and independence
as a nation, and faying, " We have met with
captures and losses from the present European
war; but as it is coming to a close, it is not
our interest to enter into it, but rather to go
on as we have done." This, he thought,would
be awife course, and extremely different from
a state of fubmiflion.
The committee had been told of a spirit of
money as improper, and that it ought to be
set artde. 1c speak of expence is no proof
of that magnanimity, national honour, and na
tional spirit, which have enabled other nations
to repel their enemies. He did not think the J
indances quoted by the gentleman from S.
Carolina were happy. He had quoted France,
and faid,thatit was because she had set aside
every other consideration but the neceflity of '
supporting the war; because she had difre- !
garded every thing like property and deluged ,
her own country with blood, that she had ,
been fticcefsful. t J
Mr.G.hadno objedlion that France might ba
adtaced as an example ter-lead us to repet aoy ,
enemy which may attempt to invade us ; but ,
in her disregard for property, in her confif- !
cations, and requisitions in those measures !
which have had conquest and plunder, and
not refiftasicCj for their object; and above all '
in the deluge of blood that had been died for y
the fak« of ambition, or caprice, or faction, he J
truded never would be set up as a proper mo
del for this country. 1
The indances of Rome and Athens, which J
the gentleman adduced, were not more hap- *
py. He did not think the spirit of conquest, 1
which animated the firft, the spirit of plunder *
towards every other independent date of
Greece which adhiated the last, the lust for a
power which characterized both, to be that
spirit which would be bed calculated to pro • 0
mote the happiness of America.
Mr. G. concluded by faying, that he meant *■
to have gone further into a consideration of
what was call;d a spirit of fubmiflion, and to v
have drawn some comparisons between out 1
present date, and what it had been in foma t'
stages of the European war j but finding the 0
usual hour ot adjournment past, he would for- e
bear to do it at present. He then recapitu- f'
lated his arguments, and fat down. c
Mr. Dayton (the speaker) expressed an ear- si
nest w-ifh that the committee of the whole n
ftiould rife, and have leave to fit again, not so
much forthcfakeoffurtherdilcuflingtheme- r.
rits of the amendment as'ol affording to mem- h
bers an opportunity the dangerous a
and fatal tendency of the arguments adduced
in the support of it. Feeling as-he did, upon ts
the occalion, it would be almost criminal in h
him to forbear to declare, that he had beard p
with astonishment, and he had almost said, ai
with indignation, the speech to which they ft
had been lideniug, from the member ftbm C
Pennsylvania (Mr. Gallatin.) He had never f<
expeited to have heard such tame and fob- hi
raiflive language, within the walls of Congrtf» tli
and from a representative of the American peo- th
pie, at a time too when they were (marring ui»- bl
d«r injuries' ar.d iofulU> If that member had w
//y >
//
n- | ever mv!e hiwfe!r acquainted with the princi
he j pies that aiHuated the American?ib-i 776, with
n- which his iWtriaes were in (lireft hollUity, ye:
ch he surely cou'd not have so faon forgotten
the tenor and spirit of the dispatches
lr. from our commiHioners in Paris. Tha' this
lat fpeeeh had been prepared before the receipt of
le, tlrofe dispatches was by no means improbable,
to but that it fiiould be uttered thus openly and
as bold!/, after those important communications
lat had been piibliftied to tbp, world, was indeed
»e surprizing. If it were a motion in order in that
>le body, Mr. Dayton declared that lie ihould itr
to mediately move that it be printed, and that
to copies (hould not only be given to every mem
:r. ber, but as .far as poflible to all the citizens of
;er the United States, that they might all, as with
at one voicedifclaim the principles which it tend
e- cd to nculcate.
lin Mr. Nisholas hoped the committ#« would
he rife, that the gentleman from New-Jersey might
's, have an given to him to state, in
what this ipeech was so extraordinary, which
Id would be much more conformable to Ifgiflative
c- procetdings, than making denunciations in ge
neral terms. *
n - Mr. S. Smith hoped the committee would
30 not rife, but that the qKeflion would be now
fe taken.
1 " Mr. Allen wished the committee would not
Q " rife. Let us fit here till midnight, till sunrise if
,n neceflarv ; let us determine this question before
3 y we leave our feats. Gentlemen dtfign to pro
-30 trail this debate and to occupy another three
li , wee )( S on a queftiun which ought to be decided
J j the firft day.
The best method of exprefling our indigna-
5 e tion, and our abhorrence of the sentiments we
hsvejuft heard from the gentleman from Penn
"" fylvania (Mr. Gillatifl) and of their author is to
lit still and decide the question. Sir, when I fee
the spirit which outrageously attacked the late
0 President for his proclamation of neutrality ;
111 when I fee the spirit which jufiified and ap
'' plauded the appeal of a certain foreign minister
" from the constituted authorities of the country
11 to the people ; when I fee the spirit which pro
" felTing jdevotion l(« the people, and hypocriti
,e preaching up the rights-os man, excited an
e infurreCiion—A cofifitfeii cry as "OrdirJ"
J c and "Co on," and Mr. Alley fat divjri-\
c Mr. Bkookis said, though he had as great an
U averlion ta the submissive course recommended
by the gentleman from Pennsylvania as any
J n ember of the comnaittre, as he believed it re
-1 pugnant t« thtf'feetings of the American people,
yet he thqugtit .bis fpeeeh ought not to jjo un
in an f"' tre d. This fpeeeh would have been thought
II an extraordinary one in the year 177J, and if
i the sentiments contained in it had been adopt
j° ed, our revolution wotrfd never have been ae
complilhed. He hoped, therefore, that the coin
le mittee would rife, that arguments which would
j lead to a surrender of the peace and ißdepen
dence of this country to a foreign nation, might
\[ be refilled.
Mr. Macon hoped -the committee would
[ e rife, for the reasons afiigned by the gentleman
;e last up, because if the fpeeeh of the gentleman
j from Pennsylvania was such as he stated it to
n » he wished to hear it exposed. It had flruck
(j him very differently.
i_- Mr. Sitgreiavis hoped the committee would
; s not rife. He believed no profeflion was necef
s> fary on his part; it would be readily credited
that he felt as mtith opposition to the opinions
i. of his colleague as any gentleman could do ;
it but he did nor his of fu«h impor.
p tance that the committee Ibould fit another day
to anfv;er it. He believed the answer to it, was
is to !>efound in the late dispatches of our Envoys,
e and in Vhe conviilions of every American. He
believed the titn? was come, when instead of
!l ipeakinj, C 9 «£ht »o »«. This ipeech
e had already been answered j since every thing
e which had now been repeated, had beeu heard
1. before, and all that could be said upon the fub
:e jeil could not tdd to the conviflion of anyone.
9 He helie«M«l shrpifem r-iji jL "
ic derftood by evtry man both in ana out of doors,
and no good el could be produced by delay.
1- The befi answer to this fpeeeh, he believed,
p would be, an immediate decifioa againil the
'e doflrine which it contained;
y Mr. BreWt felt felicitous for the committee
>. to rife, becaefe he felt 1 great deftre to know
1- what it was in the fpeeeh of the gentleman from
e Pennsylvania, which had apparently created so
h high a degree of indignation ia eeitain gentle
n men of the committee. For his part, he owned
't the gentleman from Pennsylvania had engaged
0 his rnoft feninus attention ; and if that gentle
d nsjn was culpable, he was equally so, for he ap
-11 probated every sentiment which he delivered.
< He thought it one of the molt temperate dif
' cufiions he had ever heard, being free from par
e fonalitits, and, as it struck him, of any expref
' lion which could excite irritation in any one. If
- when a gentleman rises on the floor of this house,
s on a great and important question—on a quef
s tion on which perhaps depend thrp-aceand :nde- :
• peadence of the csuntry—he is to be treated in '
> this manner-, there is an end to all freedom of i
debate. He mull own, he had never, on any |
oecjfisn, seen so much indectßcy of condudl as 1
7 had been thtwn towards the gentleman from
1 PennTylvaftia, for having delivered sentiments, 1
which, in his opinion, did honour both to the (
head and heart of that gentleman.
* M*. D*na wifhtc the rn«nmitt«< to rift. — j
[ When he refle&td that the gentleman from
New-Jersey was a native American, and had ]
| been an American soldier through the late revo- ,
j lution, he coild not be furprnted at the indig
j nation which he fett'on thi# occasion ; but he v
r wilhed the committee to rife, in order to lhow c
, that the gentleman had perverted the fenfeof the r
laws of nations. A* to his arguments to prove c
that it would be mere our to fubmitto,
t than to refill the terms offered to us by France, •
he believed the answer which our envoys re-
turned to the agents of the French government, 11
' would also be a complete answer to them.
Mr. Gallatin said he did not mean to make t
any kind of observations upon what had fallen 1<
from the member from Conneiflicut (Mr. Allen) t
. or the Speaker ; he meaot only to notice what
had been said by the gentleman laft\p from
t Conneflicut, who had perverted his sentiments. 1
That gentleman had said, that his observations c
would find an answer in the reply of our envoys d
to the agents ef Talleyiand, thereby fignifyiug, a
1 that he Mr. G.had eapreffed hisnfelf in favour d
. of an acceptance of such terms as had been off- c
ered to our envoys. That gentleman could not
surely have attended to what he had said; be- [
cause he had expressly stated, that he Ihould con- ''
fider it as fubmifiion ta pay to that nation any P
money, or to recogniae any claim contrary to
1 the law of nations ; but he had said, he would 1
rather fubmu to our present captures, under the so
hope that they might not have a long tontlnu- ••
ance, than take a measure whith was war. ' 1
He would jufl add, that the Speaker was mis- &
taken when he stated that the fpeeeh which he 0
had delivered wa| prepared befdre the late dif- ei
patches were communicated.' It was prepared
at the time of its being delivered, and in an- I
fwer to the fpeeeh of the gentleman-from South °l
Carolina (V r. Harper) delivered yeflerday. Be- bi
fore the dispatches were cammunicated, he had vi
hope* as peace j after he heard them read, bl
those hope* were net cxtinguifhrd ; but from
the publication of Uietn his hopes were very fee- ■"
ble—feeble as they Were, however, he did not 0 r
wist toblafl them by any adl of this house. As ki
- . T * '' 'I
to (he sentiments which he hl3 <Je!lvered, he
wis not ifhamed of them, and he fhnuld support
I them at any time, in opposition to what that
* gentleman; or any other, tr.ay oppose to them.
5 m
f From the New-Tori Commercial Advertiser.
l' THE STAND —No. VII.
The difp-itches from our envoys have at
t . length made their appearance. They pre
. feut a picture of the French government ex
t ceeding in turpitude whatever was anticipat
- ed from the previous intimations of their
contents. It was natural to expeft, that
1 the perusal of them would have infpirtd a
universal sentiment of indignation and dif
j gull ; and no man, calling hmiCelf an
t American, ,ri W>\jld have had the hardihood
1 to defend, o» even to palh'ate a conduft so
' atrocibus. But it is already apparent, that
: an ex{)e&ation of this kjnd would not have
been well founded.
I There are flrong symptoms that men in
. power in France understand better than our
selves the true charafter of their fa&ion in
this country, at lead of iti leaders ; and
that as to these, Via agents who conferred
with our envoys, were not mistaken in pre
' dicing that the unreasonableness of the de-
I mands upon us would not serve to detach
the party from France, or to re unite them
to their own country. The high-prifft of
this fed, with a tender regard for the honor
of the immaculate directory, has already
' imagined several ingenious diftinftiois to
iefcte them from the odium and corruption
unfolded by the dispatches. Among'thefe
is the fuggeftioti that there is no proof of
the privity of the dire&ory—all may have
been the mere contrivance of the minifler
for foreign relations.
The prefunption from so mifcrable a sub
• terfuge is, that had the proportions proceed
ed immediately from the dire&ory, the cry
from the fame quarter would have been—
there in no'eridence that the councils or na
tion approved of them ; they at lead are
not implicated ; the friendlhip of the two
republics ought not to be disturbed on ac
count of the villainy ,ps the transitory and
fugitive organs of one of them. The in
ventor of the fubterfuge however, well knew
that the Executive organ of a nation never
' comes forward in person to negotiate with
foreign ministers ; and that unless it be pre
sumed to direst and adopt what is done by
its agents, it may always be ftieltered from
rafponfibility or blame. The recourse to so
pitiful an evasion, betrays in its author a
fyftematie design to excuse France at «11
events—to foften a spirit of fubmifiion to
every violence she may commit—and to pre
pare the way for implicit fubjeftion to her
will. To be the pro-consul of a despotic
directory over the United States, degraded
to the condition of a province, can alone
be the criminal, the ignoble aim of so sedi
tious, so proltitute a character.
The subaltern mercenaries go Hill farther.
Publications have appeared, endeavoring to
juftify or extenuate tha demands upon our
envoys, aod to inculcate the slavish doftrine
of cjmpliance. The United States, it is
said, are the aggreflors, and ought to make
atonement; France affiftcd them in their
revolution with loans, and they ou§ht_to_
- JT a boon
worth the price required for it, and it ought
to be paid. In this motley form, our coun
try is urged to fuifc voluntarily, and with
out a struggle, to a state of tributary vas
salage. Americans are found audacious and
mean enough to join in the chorus of a fo
reign nation, which calls upon us to barter
our independence for a respite from the lalh.
The charge of aggression upon the Unit
ed States is falfe ; and if true, the repara
tion, from the nature of the cafe, ought
not to be pecuniary. This species of indem-.
nification between nations, is only proper
where there has been pecuniary injury.
The loans reeeived by us from France
were a/ked as a favor, on condition of re
imbursement by the United States; and
were freely granted for a purpose of mutual
advantage. The advances to be made by us
were exa&ed as the price of peace. Though
in name loans, they would be in fad contri
butions, by the coertion of a power which
has already wreftcd from our citizens an im
mense property, for which it owes to them
compensation.
To pay such a price for peace, is to pre
fer peace to independence. The nation
which becomes tributary takes a master.*
Peace is doubtless precious, but it is a bau
ble compared w"ith national independence,
which includes national liberty. The evils
of war to refill such a precedent, are infig
nificant, compared with the evil of the pre- ;
cedent. Besides that there could be no pof- j
fible security for the enjoyment of the ob- j
jest for which the difgraceful facrifice was i
made.
To difguiie the poison, raifreprefenta
tion is combined with fophiflry. It is al
ledged, that finally no more was aflced than '
that the United States Ihould purchfcfe, fix- 1
teen millions of Dutch inferiptions, and '
that by doing this, they would have fe- 1
cured compensation to their citizens for '
depredations on their trade to four times the '
amount, with an intermission of the depre
dations ; that no hazard of ultimate loss I
coukl have attended the operation, because '
the United States owed thet)Utch a much '
larger sum which would be a pledge for 1
payment or discount. i
This is a palpable, attempt to deceive. I'
The firft propositions were such as have :
been represented i'« a former paper , but
it appears witbe-fequel, that the French a- 1
gents feeing the inflexible opposition of 1
our envoys to their plan, and hoping to *
efctort finally a considerable sum, though J
* The argument of what ha» been done io the cases t
ot Alceri-njs and Indians, has nothing pertinent <■
but in the comparison of relattve ferocity. In this
view, tiic {claim of the Directory it iodifputable
bat in e.eiy other it is prrpotlereu*. Jt is the gene
ral practice of civilized nacioDS'tc pay barbarians— 1
itKre is no point of honor to the contrary. Hut be- 1
iween civilized nation.,, the payment of tribute by *
one to another, is by the common opinion ut man-
Kind, a badge of servitude. 1
: lefsthan at firft contemplated, relaxed so
[ far in their demands as to narrow them
' down to the payment of a douceur of twelve
hundred thousand livres with a positive en.
gngement to advance to the F-iench govern
• ment a sum equal to the amount ef the
spoliations of our trade, and a further en
gagement to fend to our government tor
power to purchase of France thirty two
- millions of the infcriptibns (12,800,000
. dollars) in return for all which, our envoys
. were to be permitted to remain fix months
- in Paris, depredations on our trade, duriDg
that time, were to be suspended, and a
1 commission of five persons was to be ap
. pointed to liquidate the claims for past de
predations which were to be fatisfied "in a
time and manner to be agreed upon." The
substance of these demands is to pay imme
diately twelve hundred thousand livres and
to bind ourselves to pay absolutely twenty
millions of dollars more (the ellimated a
mount ofithe spoliations) for what bare
ly for the acknowledgment 'of a debt to our
citizens, which without it, is not th 6 f> j fs
due, and for a suspension of hojlilities * for
fix months.
Afterwards, in a converfatfon between
the French minister himfelf and o e of our
envoys, the prOpositions afftimed another
form. The United States were required
to purchase of France par fixteeii mil.
lions of inscriptions, and to promise fur
ther aid when in their power. This arrange
ment being JirJl made and not- before, France
was to take measures for reimbiirfing the
equitable demands of our citizens on ac
' count of captures.
The purchase of the mfcriptions was to
be a preliminary. The arrangement for
rcimburfing our merchants was to follow.
The nature of it was not explained ; but
it is to be inferred from all that preceded,
that the expedient of the advance of an e
qual sum by the United States would have
been pre/ Ted as the bafts of the promised ar
rangement. This la ft proposal was in its
principle; as bad as either of the former ;
in its tendency worse. The promise of fu
ture affi (lance would have carried with it
the privilege to repeat at pleasure the de
mand of money, and to dispute with us a
bout our ability to fupplv ; nr.d it would
have embarked us as an ajjociate with France
in the war. It was to promise her the
most efFedtual aid in our power, and that of
which ihe flood most in need.
The scheme of concealment was a trick*
The interest of France to engage us in the
war against Great-Britain, as a mean of
wounding her commerce, is too strong to
have permitted the facret to be kept by her.
By the ratification of the treaty, in which
the senate must have concurred, too many
would have obtained possession of the se
cret to allow it to remain one. While it
did, the apprehension of discovery would
have enabled France to use it as an engine of
unlimited extortion. But a still greater ob.
je&ion is, that it would have been infamous
in the United States, thus covertly to re
liuquifh their neutrality, and with equal
cowardice and hypocrisy to wear the mafic
of it, when they had renounced the reali
ty-
The idea of fecurinw otir- advances, by
- -means ol Ihe flebt "which we owe to the
Dutch is without foundation. The credi
tors of the United States are the private
citizens of the Batavian republic. Their
demands could not be ' p, JO fed by a claim
of our government upon their government.
The only shape in which it conid be at
tempted must be in that of reprisals for tte
delinquency of the government. Bu' this
would not only be a grefs violation of the
principle—it would be contrary to expreft
stipulations in the contrasts for the loanvf-. '
fame fpiiit of deception, it has
alio been alledged that our envoys by giving
the douce in- of twelve hundred thousand li
vres . gnd agreeing to fend for powers to
make a loan, might have obtain-* d a suspen
sion of depredations far fix months. There
is not a syllable in the dispatches to coun
tenance this assertion. A large advance in
addition, either on the basis of the spolia
tions, or by way of purchase of the inferip
tions. is uniformly made the condition of#
suspending hostilities.
Glosses so falfe and as these, i n
a crisis of such immiment public danger, to
mifiead the opinion of our nation concern*
ing the conduct and views of a foreign ene
my, are shoots from a very pernicious trunk.
Opportunity alone is wanting to uuveil the
treafQn which lurks at tha core.
What fignifies the quantum of the con
tribution, had it been really as unimportant
as is reprfifented ? 'Tis the principle which
is to be refilled at every hazard. 'Tis the
pretension to make ustributary,in oppofitiou
to whicheveryAmerican ought to resign the
last drop of his blood.
The pratings of the Gallic faftion at this
time reminds us of those of the Britifti fac
tion at the commencement of our revoluti
on. The infignificance of a duty of three
pence per pound on tea was echoed and re
echoed as the bait to an admiffibn of the
right to bind ne in all cases whatloever.
The tools of France inceflantly clamor a
gainst the tresty with Britain as the just
cause of the resentment of France. 'lt is
curious to remark, that in the conferences -
with our envoys this treaty was never once
mentioned by the French agents. Particu
lar passages in the speech of the President
are alane fpecified as a ground of difiatis
fa&ion. This is at .once a specimen of the
fruitful versatility, with which causes ofcohi
plaint are contrived, and of the very flight
foundations on which they are adopted.—
A temperate expreflion of sensibility at an
outrageous indignity, offered to our gov
ernment by a member of the Dire&ory, is
converted intQ a {[mortal offence. The ty
* It'it sbfcrnfelf Thir the French give t(irrafclv«s
thcdcnrniinuicn of LirtES 'o their depreda
t'oits upon us. Our Jacobins would have us eotifiiier
tbem is gentle cart iles;
+ They at) p; avide against feizbre or fequtftriiim
by way of repufajs, &c.rants will not cpdure a murmur at the blows,
they infli£l.
But the dispatches of our envoys, while
they do not fan&ion the charge preftrred by
the Gallic faftion against the treaty, confirm
a very serious charge which the friends e*f
the government bring against that fa<3ion.
They prove, by the unreserved coufeffion of
her agents, that France, placed abfolutc de
pendence on this party in every event, and
counts upon their devotion to her as an en
couragement to the hard conditions which
they attempt to impose. The people of
this country mull be infatuated indeed, if
after this plain cotifeflion they are at a loss J
for the true source of the evils they fuffered j
or may hereafter fuffer from the despots of
France—'Tistlie unnatural league of a por
tion of our citizens with the oppressors of
their country.
TITUS MANLIUS.
By this day's Mail.
BOSTON, April 24.
The following Addreis to the Presi
dent and Congress of the United States,
breathing the true American spirit, was in
circulation in this town yesterday, when
upwards of fifteen hundred Ci
tizens of all clafles voluntarily fubferibed
thereto. To accommodate those who may
not yet have had an opportunity, and who
maywifhtojoin in this honorable and pa
triotic tranfaftion, Copies of the Ad Irefs
will be deposited at the following places un
til to-morrow evening :
Taylors and Cooper's Offices, State-Jlreet;
Col. Jos. May's Store, No. 3, Long-Wharf;
Nathl. Batch's Shop, Cornhill j
Capt. Jofcph Howard's Store, Fore-flreet ; j
Col. John May's Store, Union Wharf, N.E. J
To John Adams, President,
And to the Cons'ress of the United States, j
THE Subscribers, Inhabitants, and Ci- {
tizens of Boston, in the State of Maffachu- j
setts, deeply imprefTed with the critical and j
alarming fitMation of the United States:
and convinced of the neceflity of
IMITY and FIRMNESS at thisintereft
msr moment, beg leave to express to the
SUPREME EXECUTIVE, and the
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED
STATES, their fulled approbation of the
measures adopted by THE PRESIDENT
relative to our Foreign Relations ; theii*
gratitude for his exertions to conciliate the
French republic, and his solicitude to fettle
and accommodate all existing differences,
upon terms compatible with the fafety, the
interefl, and the dignity of the United
States.
They beg leave also to express their high
and elevated opinion of, and confidence in
the VIRTUE, the WISDOM, and the
PRUDENC-E of the NATIONAL
GOVERNMENT, and their fixed resolu
tion to support, at the risk of their lives
and fortunes, such measures as the Presi
dent and Congress, in their wisdom shall
determine to be neceflary to promote and
secure the honor and happiness of the Unit
ed States ; —Nor can they omit, at tliis
crisis, and upon such an occasion, TO DE
GLARE TO THE WORLD. THAT
« THEY ARE NOT HUMILIAT
ED UNDER A COLONIAL SENSE
OF FEAR THEY ARE NOT
A DIVIDED PEOPLE THAT
THEY KNOW THEIR RIGHTS,
AND ARE DETERMINED TO
SUPPORT THEM.
Bofion, Spril 21Jl, 1798.
NEW-YORK April 27.
It appears by a letter from Capt. Smith,
of the ship Bristol, dated Morlaix, Feb. 6,
that his ship wa& capturedon the Bth Janua
ry, by the Heureuse Speculator, comman
ded by Alexander Black. a native Ameri
can. . The Bristol was owned by Thomas
Smith, Esq. of this city, who has a letter
from Thoj. Buckley, atLifbon, which fays,"
As the ship was only in ballast, I have fotrfe
hopes the Captaiu may be able to recover
the p operty."
, The ship Beilona Dale, from England,
arrived at Alexandria, brings no later news
thanthe ifithFeb. Capt.D. fays,moftof the
American ships in England were arming.
A new paper called " The Gazette," is
just published at Portland (M.) — he pub
lisher, E A. Jenlts, fays," Its pages shall
ever be (hut to the enemies of order and go
vernment, and to the defamers of our laws
country." May such truly federal publica
tions become flill more numerous—They
must now be well supported.
cj* Those gentlemen who arecon
cerned in the cargo of the (hip Corojia, Captain
Grutzmacher, bourd from Hamburgh to Phila
delphia, but lately cast away on Cape Cod, will
please to meet' on Monday morning, 30th April,
at 1 a o'clock, at the CofFee-Houfe, in No. 3.
April 27.
Aloes at AuSlion:
On TEUSD AY next, the i£l of May, at 11 o'clock
at Footman and Co's. Au«slion Store, will be
fold for approved indorfad notes at 60 days.
A Quantity of Cape Aloes
In lots to iuit the purchafcTs, of a good quality,
being th? property of a p rfon d^ceafed,
FOOTMAN iff Co. Auflioneers.
3pril 26. dts
Landing at Wain's wharf,
From on board the Enterprizc, capt. Lang
don, from Jamaica.
6ahogflieadsof gond 3UGAR, ami "J Entitled to
6o,oco\vt. of prrrnegreenCOFFEE J drawback.
And For Sile by
WHARTON LEWIS,
No 115, South Front flrei*.
Whp have lilewifc for sale,
A quantity of 4th p. o«f Jamaica Rum
. Molafles, and
70 barrels of Tatlnrrs' Oil
~ \ tew bbls. excellent Limes
april 14. to tot
" WANT E D,
APPROVED BILLS on Amllcrdam—for which
cafti will be given at the rate of thirty seven cents
per guilder. Enquire of the Cafliier of the Bank
of the ChitedSlates. 5 april 23.
%\}t
PHILADELPHIA, '
SATURDAY EVENING, April 28-
Copy of a letter from Major Cunjlant Free
man, to the Secretary of >lVar, dated New-
Orleans, 6>h April, 1798-
Sir, s
After I had closed my letter to you,
which I had continued from the second to
the fifth instant, I received one from capt.
Guion, of which I enclose you a copy,
and an ex trad-os a 1 tter from Mr. Daniel
Clarke, to his nephew.
Lad evenihg arrived here a boat the
Illinois. I have teveived the following in
formation from a Mr. Kenner, who came
passenger. That he separated from the-de*
tachment under the command of Major
Kersey, on Sunday the firft instant, at one
I o'clock, P. M. he supposes between five
and fijt leagues above the Walnut Hills ;
that as the Illinois boat had a fail, and the
wind was fair, they left Major Kersey, and
halted at the Walnut Hills early in the e
vening ; that the works had not been de
stroyed, but appeared to be in good order ;
that major Kersey mull have arrived at his
station .early on Monday morning. The
detachment Isft the Chickafaw Bluffs on the
19th of last ndonth, and had been detained
by contrary winds and bad weather. Mr.
Kenner observed that the Major's boats
' were old and that he was therefore obliged
ta proceed with the greatest caution.
The Spanish troops from Natchez had ar
rived at Baton Rouge. Mr. i Kenntr saw
I them there on till fourth inft.
I have -the honor to be, &<:•>
CONSTANT FREEMAN, jun.
|- The Secretary of W-ar.
, ExtraS of a, letter from Captain IJaac Gui
on to Major Conjiant Freenuin dated Natch
e<z, March 2*jth, 1798.
I " Should this find you in Netf-Qrleao*,
it will be handed to you by a Mr. SieWirft
Wilkins from Kentucky, brother to our
Quarter Master General; he left the Chick
-1 al'aw Bluff on the 15th instant, where capt.
1 Peirce had been thirteen days, and
Major Kersey had not yet moved, and I
have reason to believe that he is not yet arri
ved at the Walnut Hills, which place was
evacuated on the night of the 23d —and
Friday next, the 30th, is the day fixed for
the fame operation to take place here."
Extraß of a letter from Mr. Darnel Clarke,
of Clarkefville, to Daniel Clarke, Jun. of
New-Orleans, dated March 31, 1798.
" The American flag was hoisted at the
Fort of Natchez the 30th instant, and Mr.
Ellicottwillbehereon the2dofnext month."
Yesterday, the House of Representative
of the United States-palled the bill making
appropriations for she support of the milita
ry establishment fprtheyear 1798. They al
so went again into the confederation of the
bill for newly organizing, arming and dif
cip'ining the militia, of tke United States ;
I and. after some time spent the ein, the com
mittee rose, ""Snd being dil charged. from a"
further consideration of it, the bill was re
committed to a feleft commitiee.
A bill was received from the Senate for
authorizing the President to procure a num
ber of smalt vefTds to be equipped as gallies
or otherwise.
The house adjourned till Monday.
Married on Thursday evening, by the
Rev. Dr. Blackwell, Mr. Charles Mar
shall, Junr, to tke amiable and accom
plished Miss Mary Wallis.
The report of the loss of a vefTel bound
from Halifax to Boston, together with the
paflengers on board, published in our paper
of yesterday under the Boston head, turns
out to be the fabrication of some vagrant
Callender, lately discharged from the prison
in Boston.
THEATRE.
The following Toa&s were given in the In
terlude of General Wolfe, last evening,
written by Mr. Marshall for that oecafion.
May the Sword of Virtue, drawn in the
eaufe of Freedom, never be flieathed but in
Conquest !
May the bleffing3 of Liberty, secured to
us by the blood of our Forefathers, never
be forfeited by the degeneracy of the.ir
Sons.
The grateful Memory of those Heroes
who fought, bled and died for their Coun
try. —Standingand uncovered,with 3 cheers.
Although Bache called his myrmidons to
arms, and requested the republican party
(as he called it) to go to the Theatre in a
strong body for the purpose of exciting riot
and tumult, yet the Pattiotic Song
was received last evening with more etithufi
aftic applanfe than before. It was "again
encored and sung four times, and called for
much oftener. As the Theatre, more than
1 any other place, brings together people of
all forts aqd clafTes, the execration which
the French murder-shouts haveraceived there
and the unbounded and inceflant plaudits
that have for some time part been bestowed
on our own National Music ii'k happy evi
dence of the patriotic state 'of the pablic
mind.
ExtraS of a letter from Richmond, April 23.
•* Since the publication of the Dispatch
es from our Envoys, a wonderful change
hastaksti place amoug those here who have
been opposed to the Government, and in
favor of the French."
For the Gazette of the United States.
Bache and his myrmidons are continually
growlingabout the influence whichthe Brttifh
Merchants have on the politics of America.
It is really Angular if tbey have any influer.ee
that all thofc pjjces at whicb they refidc
should fend representatives noted for their
holt ilityfo Great Britain. It is well known
that in New England (the great Eulwark
of our Government) there are very few im
ported citizens of any description. The
trade of that country is altogether eat l ied
on hy native Americans. . New-York where
there are a nun\be." of Bntifh Merchants,
fends a jacobin repr>-fent<itivc. Philadelphia
where perhaps they are lliß more numerous
fends Mr Swan wick, Baltimore Mr Smith,
Alexandria Mr Brent. Norfolk Mr ParkeYj
Charleston indeed fends Mr Pincknfy ? but
until his election, which was unanimous, I
am told there was generally a majority of
antifederal votes in the city, which were on
ly counterblanced by the Federalifmof the
adjoining counties.
COMMON SENSE*
Our Democrats may be aiffured, that their pro
perty is as sweet t->our dear allies, as that of a Fe
derals, or ririflocrat. This thty have found to
their cod in many infiances.
NEW BEFINITION OF CONTRABAND.
An American Captair, lately carried nit* Gua
daloupe, alked Vi3or Hughes what goods he'con
fidered Ts contraband, Vnftor very candidly an
swered, all that are worth taking.
PRICE. OF STOCKS.
Philadelphia, April zB.
Six Per Cent. 15/
Three per Cent. 9/4
Deferred 6 per Cent. 12/9
BANK United States, 10 per cent.
North America, 50 per cent.
InfuranceCo. Penntylvania, 7 J to to per cent.
N. A. ditto 30 per cent.
GAZETIE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED. bays
Schr. Hope, Minick, Havanna 16
Jaae, Greenill, . Lisbon 46
Flying Squirrel, Bush, Havanna 16
Brig Jane, Vanfoe, Cape Francpis 15
Sally, Hampton, , St. Bartholomew's 16
A fliip from Alexandria andfeveral fqaar« rigg«d
v.fTclsare below. »,,,
Capt. Vanfife informs, that the fquadrou of
frigates from Brest had arrived at, the Cape, pre
vious to his filling,
Lift of vessels advertiftd at New-York, to
fail for the following ports—
For London.
The (hip Holland, captain Johnson, to
fail by the ift May—-Apply to Henry Chap
man, No. 120, Water street.
For Liverpool. .
The (hip Sarah, captain Cooper, to fail
in all this month—Apply to Archibald
Gracie.
Ship Betsey—With all convenient speed.
—Apply to Hugh Pollock, & Co.
Ship Peggy, captain M'Cottle—To fail
in a few days—Apply to Wm. Bowne, No.
265, Pearl-ftrcet.
For Brijhl.
Ship Atlas, captain Wilson—Will fait
early in May—Apply to Wm. Neilfon, 8c
Co.
For Hamburgh.
The Swedish (hip L'Amitie du Nord,
Captain Skogftrom—-Will fail with all pos
sible dispatch—Apply to Henry Sadler, &
_£ftL._.. ' :
For Glafgoiv.
The (hip Fanny—capt. Braine—to fail
ioth May—Apply to Thomas Buchannan
No. 41 Wall-street.
Brig Nymph— to fa Iby the ift of May
—Apply on board at the Old Slip, or 22
Sionejlreet.
New-Tori, /Ipril 27.
ARftIVED, DAYS.
Brig Iris, Lee, Lisbon 43
Marjr, Cohfue, Curracoa 43
Enterprise, Malabie, Hpvannah 13
Schr. Juliana, , do. 13
Concord, , Savannah 6
Sloop Hope, Cox, Havannah 1,4
Harriot, Can, do. 13
Baltimore, ylpril 26.
Arrived brig Barbary, capt. Thomas,
26 days from Bafiaterre, Guadaloupe.
Captain Thomas informs that the Sand
wich, from this port to St. Bartholomews,
had been carried into Guadaloupe and clear
ed.
The schooner Mary, from do. to Cilrra
coa, had also been carried into the fame
place and cleared. 1
The Susannah, from Portland to Curra
coa, was carried in, and condemned ; fhc
was afterwards purchased by the supercar
go of the Sandwich.
The Barbary was a prize vefiel, purchas
ed by the supercargo of the Mary. She
was bound from Liverpool to Martinique
with a cargo worth 60,0001. She had
three different engagements with French
privateers, the la ft of which was with a
cutter,in which (he loft her second mate and
several men. The two cooks were cut to
pieces and thrown overboard after they had
got peaceable pofTeflion of the brig.
Captain Thomas spoke gthe following
vessels :
April 3, lat. 2D, 43. N. long. 65,
(hip Flora, of Philadelphia, prize 10 the
French.
April 9, sloop——, captain Pitman,
from the Mole, bound to Rhode Island.
April 17, schooner Little Will, of Phila
delphia, bound to New-Orleans—all well.
Sailed in company with the schooner Ma
ry for Baltimore.
Savannah, April 10.
On Fr.day the 6th inft. arrived at this
port, the schooner Cornelia, Capt. Sammis,
iit 10 days from Grenada.—-Before I apt.
Sammis left Grenada, a French Corvette of
20 guns, was captmed andcarried into Mar
tinique, (n board of which were French
commiflions, authorizing the capture of all
Ame/ican vefTels without diftinftion A
French schooner was also captured, on board
of which were commiflions of the fame tenor
The above information appeared in the Gre
nada, Martinique and St. Vincent newspa
pers. In lat 30, 31, and long. 79, 30, Cgpt
Sammis fell in with a French cruiser of 16
guns, by which he was chafed • for feren
hours, and after having faritcf to attrael his
attention by decoys, which were artfully
r used, or to overtake him by failing, she gai<c
over thechace.
POST-OFFICE,
Philadelphia, 28th, April 1798.
LETT£RS for the Br'itijh Packet, far
Falmouth, will he received at this Office,
until 1 uefday the ijl May at 12 o'clcck
( noon.)
N. B. Inland Pojiage nntjf be paid to
Neiu-Tori.
On Monday Morning, April 30th,
WILL BE LANDED,
From on board the (hip Alex nder, capt. Brown,
from Jacqnemel, at Wikock-' wharf, about
80,000 wt. of fine Green Coffee
in hogsheads, barreTs and bagl '' , -
For Sale—anplj to
John Whitefides & Co.
WHO HAS ON HAND,
Claret of the firft quality, in cases
april 98. 1 §6t
SALE,
CBy Postponement,)
At Public Vendue, on the 7th of May next, at
7 o'clock in the evening, at the Merchsnts'
CofTee-Houfe,
THE FOLLOWING
PRODUCTIVE REAL ESTATES :
No. 1. A good THREE STORY BRICK
HOUSE, jo feet front, and I jfeetdtep, with
the privilege ofafour feet alley, it is situated
in Plumb-street, between Front and Second
ftreets,in n pleasant and improving part of South
ward.
а. A genteel three-story brick flbufe in Front
street, between Race and Vine flreets, No. 171,
north—it goes through to Water street, where
it is five stories high, the whole in compleat re
pair, ana now rented for 600 dolla'a per ann.
3. A handsome, weli finiihed three-story
brick House, in south Second street, No. 165,
it is 30 feet front, and 45 feet deep. The Lot
rim* through to Dock-fireet, on which is built
a gold two-story brick house : The whole was
let before repaired for goo dollars r.nd the taxes.
4 A well built three-story brick houf*, fitu
a'ed in Ch<-fuut-Areet, between front and Se
<K>nd streets, being r»<f*et'front, and iHdm MpO
feet deep, running through to Tayl r's alley,
on which it is » a ftet front, with a coach henfe
and ft able. There are ten good rr»oms in com
pleat repair, and cellar under the whole, clearof
gronnd rent and every other incumbrance.
5. A good Plantation, situate.l hear Hights-
Town, East New-Jersey, containing 186 acres,
well improved land, wiih plenty of woodland,
orchard and meadow, in a healthy iituation and
a good neighbourhood.
б. Another Plantation adjoining the preced
ing, containing also 186 acres. On which is a
frame bouse and flable, with a large orchard of
grafted fruit, a good well of water, and a large
body of swamp, well timbered.
7. Also another plantation, adjoining the
firft mentioned ; it contains 186 acres, pa of
which is good meadow, a large quantity of val
uable swamp, a very convenient farm house,
bam, liable, and a good new well of excellent
water.
Also, a number of BUILDING LOTS, 100
feet frent (on the great road leading to Amboy)
and 300 feet deep ; adapted particularly for
tradesmen.
For further particulars or purchase at private
file, apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, fen. or,
ROBERT E. O RIFFITH.
April «8. a!i&3)»A 2,4,6,7 M
Cedar Pods, Rails and Shingles,.
for sale.
will be delivered to anyplace in Mary
land, Pennsylvania, New-Jersey, or New-
York, where boats drawing fix tect water can go
from, this place. It will often suit the feller to
receive in return corn, provifipr.3, wet or dry
goods. Letters dire&ed to the fubfcriVr at tlii's
place, and put into any post office in the United
States, will be regularly received and carefully at
tended to. Those who wifli to contrad 111 Phila
delphia, will plcafe to app.y to Gidsov Hill
Watts, No. 131;, M .rket-ftreet. The fuMcriber
is dcfirous of contradirg with To til's refpentißlc
pcrfen in Philadelphia, to receive and difpofa of for
him, op commiflion, a quantity of two fefet Shin
gles, for home ule, and of two sAc arM Hghteen
inches, lor exportation. "
William Hill Wells, -i
Dagfborough,'" HatL* of Deiawire.
April 28. IW4W
• A Country 'Beat to be Let,
THE firft.Houfo in ih« V fclatr ©f CJermantown,
situated on th,e right hand fide, of the Road
—together with five oc fix acres of Grass Land
Apply to
GEORGE LOGAN.
April at . •, t
[ln the press andfoon mill be publi/hed,] ■'%
WILBERFORCE ON RELIGION.
PROPOSALS
BY J. ORMROD,
No. 41, Chefnut street, Philadelphia,
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A Practical View
OF THE
Prevailing Religious System
PROFESSED CHRISTIANS,
CONTRASTFB WITH
REAL CHRISTIANITY.
Br William Wilberforce, Esq
Memberof the Hritifh Parliament.
Search tub Scriptures.--John v. 39.
Houi charming h Divine Philosophy.
Not harjh andcrabhtd as'dull foolsfuppofe,
But musical as is Apsllo's lute.
And a perpetual feajl of neftaredfweets,
Where no crude furftit reigns.
Milton.
CONDITIONS.
This work will be printed with a hansjfome
Pica type, on fine paper, and will form a volume
of 400 pages, large oflavo.
It will bp delivered to fubferibers fnrone dol
lar and twenty-five cents in blue boards, or neat
ly Jiound and lettered, for one dollar and a
half.
The London copy fold (when it was to
be had) for two dollars and a half
The British Reviewers announce this pub
lication £0 be one of the most ufefut, elegant and
energetic, on the fu v ijc£t of religion, thst has ap
peared wjtkin their memory. The reception
it has already met with from the public, strong
ly corroborates their opinion, for it has, in a fcjr
months, run rapidly through four large edi
tions in Londcin.
The publisher flatters fcimfelf, that as soon as
its merits berqme generally kr.own, it will be
read with as'much aviUii y in America as it is in
£nrope.
April 16 ■ -j t
NEW-THEATRE.
Mr. Blijfet, & Mrs Bernard's Night
THIS EVENING, April 28,
IVill he prrftntaiy a cc!-bra ted CO MEDY, ( „ot a fled
tktfe two year r J hi Jour cfls % called,
The BUSY BODY.
MarphU, (with an AJJreft to the Town) mr tier*
nard ; Sir Gicrge Aity, mr FinueU; Ctarles.nir
veil; Sir Jejltul Traffic, mr Francis : IVhifper. rrr '
Wrrrell, jun ; Bviler, mr IVarrell; Servants', mejfrs
Hunter, Lavancy, ijf c ; Sir Gripe, mr Morris.
Miranda, mrs Marfki.'l; IfabMa, mist L'Efirange ;
Patch, mrs Oldtrixon ; Scrs/tiuell, an DcCior.
End of u(l I. (by particular dejir,) Mri. Bernard if ill
sing the celebrated Song of
Four and Twenty Fidlers all on a Row.
End of aS 11. (by drftrc) a Nero Federal Song (writ,
ten by a Citizen of Philadelphia) to the Tunc of
THE PRESIDDNT'S MARCH.
Willlefung by Mr. Fox, Accvmpinitd qy the Full Bjhd.
End cf An ir.
PICTTURE3 OF THE TIMES ;
OR,
A DiJJcrtatioh on Macarotiyifm.
By Mr. Bernard,
End of the Comedy,
Aneiv COMIC SCOTCH BALLET,performed uta
■wards of three hundred nights at Drtry Lane
Theatre, called
THE SCOTCH GHOST,
Or, Fanny's Lodc*
The principal cbaratlsrs by Mr. and Mrs. Byrne,
Mr. Francis, Mr. IVarrell, jun. Majler Byrne, Maa\
Norwood, and Miss Milbvurne. In nvhich ivill be in
troduced a variety of Strapbfey s Reels, tffc. The Bul
let under the dtreSion of Mr. Byrne.
To r thick il ill be added,
A COMIC OPERA (written by the Author of the
Poor Soldier J cdllcd
LOVE IN A CAMP ;
Or, Daubt turn'd Soldier.
AJarJlal Fehrhelliu, Mr. Fox ; Patrick,'Mr- Mar•
Jhall ; Darby. Mr. Bernard; Sguix Odbojy, Mr. Blif
fett-, Father / uke, Mr. Haidmge; blmtUa,* Air.
IVarrcn, ; Officer, Mr. IVarrell; Supert, Mr'. IVar
rell, jun
McblcFLuriJb, Mrs.V EJlrange „■ Nor ah, Mr.s JVar
rell; Flora, miss Milboume.
Tickets to be had at tbeufual places, and at Mr,
Csrr's Musical Repertory, Market-Street, and Mrs
Bernard's corner of Sevenrh and Chefnuc Greets.
0- Th;,curtain will drogator l.yoic ix
*.* public arerefpuSfuUy acquainted mat
the next performance will be oj» Tuoiaay next.
i P Mr- Warreh, ani M,r. Warrell, junr'®
Night will be on Wednesday next.
The Last Night.
lOR THE BENEFIT OF
Mr. S U L L Y.
Mr. SULLY having been, by unforefeen fortu
itous circumftanccs deprived of his late situation,
and prevented, at the New Circus, the
aflidance of his friends and the public, ventures to
put his name up forj a Benefit, with the affiflance
of Mr. Chalmers and others, at Rir.keiu', Circus,
on Monday next, April 30th, 1798 ; to which he
refpetffully invites them, and flatters himfclf the
Bill of Fare with which he has the honor of pre
renting them, will prove both pleasing and attrac
tive. There being no performance afthe Theatre
on that evening, is the occasion of the alteration
from Taefday.
WAGS AND ODDITIES,
OR
THEM EDLEY;
CONSISTINC OF
EnUrta 'inmenU, Dramatical and Pantotnimical
Dances, Song, and Sentiment.
ift PaRT.
address,
CONTAINING THE GRECIAN FABLE,
Mr Ch 4r mers.
A Dictation on Jealousy, by an American
Lady—her JirJi appearance.
. THE TATLER,
Taken from
THE DEUCE IS IN KIM.
Doctor Prattle—Mr Chalmett.
Emily—Mrs Rowfon.
Belle—by a young Lady of this City.
To conclude with the Comic i'ale of {The Spirit of
Contradiaiw—by Mr Chalmers.
Lawyers p*> you with words, or the end of a Sons
By Mr Sully.
OX THIS NlClir MRS SOLLT
Will perform a Pet Pouri on the Grand PianoForte
BUCKS HAVE AT YE ALL ; '
With a Dalh at the Belles—Mr Chalmer-.
PART.
A Burlelta, called
■ LINCO's TRAVELs,
OR,
HOME IS HOME.
Linco, mr Sully ; Damon, by mr Frederick •
Dorcas, mrs Rowfon ; Shephards and Shtpherd
dffes, by others.
The performances of the lafl evening having
taken up more lime in Reprefntation
than zvas expcßed, induced Mr.
Chalmers to omit the Tale of
Tom King, or Monsieur Tonbon,
It will, by particular defirc, be g lv «i this evening-
Duet on the Gland Piano Forte—By Mr. Benjamin
Carr and Sully.
Notoriety, or All for a Name,
In the character ol Nominal—By Mr. Chalmers.
3d PART.
MASTERI.Y FEATS OF ACTIf?rY.
WITH CROUND AND
LOFTY TUMBLING,
By Mr. Sully and his Pu»il«.
4th PART.
AP ANTO MI ME ENTERTAINMENT called
THE POWER OF LOVE;'
Or, The Vicissitudes of Fortune.
With tK« Dying an 1 Skeleton Scenes.
Harlequin— Mr. Sully.
With many fuprifing Leaps, Escapes, and Feat«
Activity, particularly through
A CHURCH STEEPLE TEN FEE : HIGH
Don Ronando.Mr. Frederick— Father; Mr/1 om
kins—Clowh, Mr. Ponyar.
Venus, with a Song, by ,hc young hdy who per
forms Belle, in the Deuce is in Him—colum/ine
Mrs. Rowfon. uni.me,
The whole to conclude luith
An EPILOGUE, in thecha- adtcr of Harlequin bv
y M*. Sullv.
To finiih with a Leap, eight feet hijl,, through
A grand Display ps Yarlegated Fire.
Tickets to be had of Mr. No 3J ,'Sonth
Fifth Street, near tkt New Circu,; of Mr. Cbal-
M ' 9 \ S ,° U , th ?'° nt StTe " '• at »• C^.r'f
MuficalftoK, Market street, a:;,i O'tllcn-s Hct'l
lbe ourilandmg tickets of Mr. Chalmers t
luefday lafl will be admitted this evenino-.
7 ' plr:iCuli "' attention will be paid to the bet
ter lighting of the flage. Mi;. Chalmers is sorry ,0
hear many of Ins fn< ndsdep,rtcd the hft nivht be
fore the perl fauces were at an end, owii.M to a
milcona jftion by hw giving cut the i,,tenti.n, f er
this evening.-£g
f / v
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH i, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IS pursuance of the Ail of C«ngref» palled on the sixth day of July one thousand seven hundred and
nii.ety-fcven, entitled " An A<ft laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", and the
A£i paff*d on the fifteenth day of December, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, entitled
" An AA :o poftponefor a limited time the commencement of the duties imposed by the A<St enti
tled " An Allaying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and P.-.per", that from and nfter the
firft day of July enf«ing, the fcveral Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and collec
ted throughout the United States.
I.
For every (kin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or (beet or piece of Paper, upon which fliall be
written or printed any or either of the inArutnents or writingslollowing—to wit :
JJ/j Cts. |Mh
Any Certificate of Naturalization, - - - - j
Any Licence to praflice,or Certificate of the admifiion,enrolment er regiftryof
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney ,Advocatt or Proiflor, in any Court of the
United States, ... . I 0
Provided, that a Certificate in any one of the Courts of the United States
for «»e of the said Offices, (hall so far as relates to the payment of the
tlnty aferefaid, be a fuffitient admifiion in all the Courts of the United
States, for etch and every of the f»id offices-
Arv Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal o'# authority of the United States
(except foi lands granted for military Services) - - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any fuck grant oif letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military services j - - j
Any Charter-Party, Bottomry, or Refpondentia Bond, - - 1
Any Receipt or discharge for or on account of anyLegacyleftby any Will or o
ther testamentary inftrument,or for any (hare or part of a perfor.nl estate di
vided by force of any statute of diftrft>uti#ns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the perlon deceafetl.the amount whereof (hall be
•above the value of Fifty Dollars, and shall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, .... -
When the amount thereof fliall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
fliall not exceed five hundrad dollars, ...
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional furn of 1
Any Polky of Infuranceor inftrament in nature thereof, on any (hip, vefTe'l or
goods insured from one diftrifl to another in the United States, . 2$
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which
Insurance is made fliall not exceed five hundred dollars, - 2$
When the sum insured (hall exceed five hundred dollars, - j (
Any Exemplification, of what nature soever, that (hall pass the seal of any
Court, oiher than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furHifti for the ufeofthe United States or some particular (late, - ;o
Any Bond, bill single or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promiflory
note or other note, other than_any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrafl, made to or with the ,U n > tt< l States or any slate, or for their
use refpeiftively, - - -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - IO
If above one hundred dollars*nd not exceeding five hundred dollars, 15
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, . 50
And it above one thousand dollars, .....
Provided, that if any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or notes (hall be fubjeft to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforefaid—viz. - -
-If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 4
If above one hundred dollars and net exceeding five hundred Mollai s, 10
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, - jo
If above one thousand dollars, ....
Any Notes iflued by the banks now efUMilhed, or that may hereafter be eftab
li(hed within the United States, other than the no'os of such of the said Banks
as (hall agree to an annual composition, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders reipeiUvely, according to
the following scale. .....
On all. notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dcrtlar, - - OV
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding > one hundred dollars,
On all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - - - ... j
On all notes above fiye hundred dollars, - - 1
Any Prottft or other Notarial aft, - - - - 25
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfion,or to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
performed in the l«te war, - ...
Any Certificate or Debtnture for drawback of Customs or duties, for less than
five hundred dollars, ..... I
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, 2
For more than two thousand dollars, - - 3
Any note' or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
H from one diftria to another dftrift oftheUijited States, not being in the
fime State, ... - 10
If from the United States to any foreign port or place, - - »5
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, g?ods or effisfts, made in any
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
, rent.or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share in any Coiapany, of a (hare in the Bank of
the United States, or <Jf any State or other Bank,
If above twenty dollars and r.ot exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars, ...
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
The duties aforelaid will be colleiled and received by the Supervisors, Tnfpeaors aud other Officers
of InFpe<Slion, ia the fevefal Diftriils, Snrveye and Divisions of the United States, and by such other
perfonsai (hall from t« time be fpetjially appointod and employed by the Supervisors of Diftrids for
that purpose.
r nr.
The Supervisors of the several Diftrias will, prior to the firft das of July ensuing, and as soon as
may be practicable, mark or (lamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of the said duties ; Or
stamped vellum, parchment and paper n.ay at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rates prescribed bylaw, by application to any Superviior, Infpe&or, Officer of lilfpe&ien,
or other pstifea appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diftrias,
GIVEN under my Hand, at Philadelphia
J ' tie day and year abovementiotted.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secretary of the Treasury.
James Humphreys,
BEING encouraged by a number of gentlemen
in the mercantile line, to undertake the pub
hfhing of a Price Current in this city, and they
having engaged to give him every afliftance in their
power to render it accurate and ufcful,
PROPOSES TO PRINT BV SUBSCRIPTION,
The Philadelphia Price Current,
And Market Day Advertiser.
To be published every Wednesday and Saturday
morning, oji the following conditions.
It, will be printed on four pages quarto. It will
contain the Prices Current (wholflale) at Phila
delphia, With the duties on each article—The Pri
ces Current at Boston, New-York, Charleston,
and other parts of the United States, With the Pri
ces Current at Louden, the Weft Indies and else
where at often as they can be had accurate and to
be relied on. The rat.s of infnraoee—the price
of flocks—coutfe of exchangt, &c. &c. Likewise
a regular account of entries, inward and outward
—with such marine and other intelligence as fhali
be thought ufeful and important —and the remain
der of the paper will beappropiiated to advertise
ments.
The price to fubfcrif>ers within the city and li
berties, to whom it will be delivered at their hou
se», will be Four Dollars per annum—Two dollars
at the expiration of a month from its publication,
and the remainder at the end of the year. Sub
icijbers at a greater diftancewill have it sent them
agreeable to their directions —to pay two dollars at
the time of lubferibing, and the remainder at the
end of the year.
The publication fliall commence as soon as a fuf
ficient number have fubferibed to pay the expence
of conducing it.
1 It is from the advics and to gratify the with
ef a Vumber of mercantile gentlemen that the
printer proposes publilhing this Price Current in a
quarto size in preference to any other. Audit is
proposed to embrace the Prices Current with such
other matter as may be mod material to fend abroad
ia the firft two pages—appropriating the other two
to such matter! as way be m«re immediately do
tneflk, and to advertisements.
Subfcriptibflt are received by fold Humphries, at
his Printing Office, No. 74, North Third-street,
and Mr. Z. Poulfon, jun. at his office in Chefnut
ikreet, and at the Philadelphia library.
Philadelphia, April 14. ftf
For Sale,
A CONVENIENT well built second hand Light
Waggon, hung cn Jacks with glaff.s and
Minds in the doors, with or without harness.
Knquirc of Peter Umerickhoufe, Arch, below
Sixth flrett, cr the fubferiber in Germantown.
CAS PAX IV. A/NFS'
april » . *lavi'3W
Fresh Teas.
JuJ Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sale, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Compting Houfc, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,
AND BV
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea, Souchong, Hyson, Young
Hyson, Myfon Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, aflarted; black and coloured Lute
strings and Sattins, Nankeens, Cassia, large garden
and conynon Fans, fattin and lutsftring Umbrellas,
whale-bone flicks.
Tbey have also For Sale, t
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchiefs,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ip boxes,
march'B. §
Now Opening,
At W« L LIA m M'L A\v s Saddle fy[anufa6\ory,
No. 72, Chef nut Street >
A general afiortment of Horseman's
Piflols, dire.sl from the Manufacturers in London.
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartou;h Boxes, Va
l'ce6, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hatd Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
»P ri * 9 dtf
City Commissioner's Office,
'January \ith, 1798.
FOR THE INFORMATION OF THE CITIZENS.
THE following arrangement is made by tfie
fald commiflioners, for cleansing the
streets, Sec
Diftriit No. 1. —From tile nprth fide of Vine
street, to the foutli fide of Mulberry street; t«
be under the fuperintendance of Nicholas Hicks.
a From the south fide of Mnlbrry street, to
tire south fldi of CVcfnut ftrreet, tote ilnder the
fupcrißtendance of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut street to
thenerth fide ef Spruce street, to be under the
fuperintendance of Jdl'eph Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of Spruce street, to the
fquth fide cf Cedar street, to be under the fu
perintendance of Hugh Robertj.
•%T When pumps are out of order south of
High-flreet, please apply to Thomas Dixey, at the
corner of So*th and Fifth-ftreets, or Godfrey Gcb
ler, in Fourth, r ear Chefnut-ftreet ; and north of
High street, to Dixey and Dehaven, in Saflafras
ftrcet, bcrweea Sixth and Ssventh-flrects.
New Tea Warehouse. "
No, 39, South Front Street,
OPPOSIT* POST-OFFICF-.
d Sbblcfiber rtfpedfully srq-»«irfih^rric>.ds
c X and the public, that fee has opened a Store tor
the sale of all kinds of teas, imported in the late
arrivals at Boflon and Philadelphia, (asunder) and
e which Pie is determined to fell oa realonable terms.
" It will be hcrconftantendeavour to give frttisfa&ion
to those who plcufe to favor her with their cutlrim.
Country ftonswill ftpd it their advantage to deal
e wi h her, as fi»e can at a moment's notice aflor:
them any quantity wanted,and will allowareafon
s able credit on approved notes.
lmpcri'J, Hyson, Younjr Hyson, Souchong,
Hyson Skin, and Dohesr— *\lfo, Coffee and Loaf
Sugar for sale.
Sarah Eaton.
April 12 sScth/iw
B R A N D r.
The Cargo of the Danish Brig Concord,
FROM CETTE,
Will cotumence lauding this day, at Smith's ftre.t
wharf.
SS"Xr'}Choice Brandy
Provence white Wine* in pipes
Hazlenuts and Filberts, in sacks
A few Almonds, Raifius, 6cc.
For Sale by
Peter Blight.
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SALE,
200,000 lbs. Java Coffee, in sacks
Old Batavia Arrack, in pipes
Mace and Cloves, in boxes
1 zo hhds. Jamaica Sugar
50 do. do. Rum
Port Wine, in pipes,.hhds. and qr. calks
Madeira, London particular, in pipes, very
superior
april 18. daw eoti7M
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT application has been made at the Bank of
the United States, for the renewal of the fol
lowing five Certificates of Bank Stock, lofl by the
capture of the British Packet, Countess ©f Leices
ter—viz.
No.37oj,containingsfhares"> IfTued to Henry Ca
-3?03 5 do. J zenove Nephe\v&C6
73J I do. issued to Edwards
and Co.
3188 5 do. ifTiled (in lieu of
6509 to 6513) to Samuel and Henry 'Vaddingtoni
3928 4 do. ifTued to Phyn, lil
lire and Trfgiis.
, . All persons concerned are therefore called upon
to shew c*afe why new Certificates should not he
ifTued agreeably to the said application.
' april 14 eo6w
Imported in the ihip Phoenix,
Richard Grice, master, from Amsterdam,
A quantity of Lintfeed Oil, and
Two cases low priced Linen Checks
For sale by
George Pennock.
April 19. eotf
treasury department,
March 30th. 1798.
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT by aft ef Gongrcfs palled on the
19th day of March, 1798, the following
alterations and amendments have been made to
the adl passed on the 6th day of July 1797, en
titled "An aft laying duties on stamped vtl
" lum, parchment and paper."
I; \
The stamp duties oit debentures or certifi
cates for the drawback of Customs ar duties on
Imports are repealed. '
n.
A discount at the rate of seven and one half ,
per Centum, will be allowed by the SuperviJors t
or Infpefters refpeftively., to any persons other
than Officers of the Revenue, who may pur
chase at one fime or procure to he stamped, any
-cjuwtkies ofVettum, ParcTrmtrtir or raper, upon
which the duties shall amount, to Ten Dol
lars or upwards.
111.
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold at /
the rates prescribed by law, without any addi
tionaj charge or expense on account of the a
price of Paper ; but for stamped Parchment or g
Vellurn, an additional price will be demanded c
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each lkin of Parch
ment, or Two Hundred Cents for each fkifs of
Vellum of medium size, tfhich may be furnift- v
ed at the expenfeof the United States and pro- t
portionally for any lefTer quantity- v
Given under my hand, at Philadelphia, the
day andyeir alovementioned. n
OLIVER WOLCQTT, d
Secretary of the Trea/ury. _
LANDING,
Fr«ra on board the ship Elizabeth, captain Paiflie,
from Batavia,
And FOR SALE by the Subscriber,
400,000 wt. COFFEE
300 caniftars SUGAR, of a superior quality
also, c j
A quantity of SAPAN WOOD el
JOHN MILLER, jun.
April 17. §
Thomas Ss* Joshua Fisher, .
HAVE FOR SALE,
At No. 5, DocK-ftreet,near the Drawbridge, j c "
China ware nankeen dining fctts, tea and cpffee c 0
cups and saucers c .
Nankeens, black fattins and taffities
Pungem cloths, choppah roiualls, and bandannoes dv
China and Enßlifh umbrella?, ou
Together -with a general ajfortment of European
Goods— among "which are
Scots thread in boxes
6d. Bd. iod. nd. and aod. nails
Shot—T. Crowley steel, brown and white
lead p
English feythes4»to 50 inches
ALSO,
ill barrellsof kiln dryed Indian corn meal.
AcommodiousStoreinDock-ftreet,
No. 7, to be let, three stories high, suitable for
any business.
4th mo. sth § t f
For Sale,
BY THE SUBSCRTBER, NO 10, CHESNV 1 STREET, Hi
11 Calks of Carolina Indigo,
Which will be fold on reasonable terms on a Ciort T
credit.
Robert Henderfon. at
a P r 'l » mw&s 4 w
JUST f
♦ ROM IOIMC-PHMCt,
And FOR SALE, by th, SUBSCRICERS,
no hhds. Coffee
46 tierces do. V
100 barrels do, /
100 bags do. X
110 hogiheads of Muscovado Sugar Li
80 barrels of do. ce
40 hogiheads of Molaflcs p r
4 bale« of Cotton ( 0
1 hogfheadsof Cocoi"
WILLINGS FRANCIS, P
Penn-ftrect.
march i»,
, • JUST ARRIVED,
* 1 la the &ip Phoenix, cipt. Grice, from Amsterdam,
2 box-.sSiamois i hhd.Hogs Bristles, 1
- do. Haarlem Stripes quality
Is j«y. "Checks, Ho. % 2 do. do. »J do.
r 9 do. Sealing Wax 3 do. Glue, and
Cream Checfe in prime J ) chests firft quality Red
d order for exportation Crust
i- ALSO,
" Jufl: Received, via Baltimore, &c.
j 50 hales brown Ticklenhurgs and hempen Linens
. 10 hales German Ozaabrigs
30 bales brown Roils and Heffins
»5 bates Polish do. suitable for coffee and cotton
f, ba S s
f 20 bales empty Bags
1 bale bleached Heffans
I package Turkey Yarn
S4 pieces 'rfadr.'.fsHandkerchiefs
1 iheftTapes, No. 13, »J, &c.
1 package cotton Lindfcys
ISjo boxes Window Glaft, 7 by 9, 8 by 10, 9 by
, 11,"lo by 12, 14 by 16, 16 by 18, &c.
to chests plain and flowered half pint, pifit and
t quart Tumblers
ao chests Looking Gtaffes, assorted
4 large elegant do.
' 30 travelling Liquor cases
1 cheltand 8 barrels Snuff Boxes
400 fides upper and foal Leather
A cargo of prime Mahogany
Several Anahors, from 4 to 12 cwt.
20 pipes old Pot y
A few quarter cafksSherry (
60 cases White
> 200 boxes Claret J
80 boxes Capers
300 fnull boxes Russia Soap
30 tierces Rice
50 calks Roil Brimstone
40 kegs yellow (lone Ochre
' 15 kegs Pearl Barley
2 hogiheads Madder
1 chell assorted Quills .
6 bale 9 Writing Paper
. ia thefts Slates and Pencils
»o trunks Mens' and Womens' Shoes
" 60 Silver Watches
1 hhd Coffee Mills
2 do fifhing and blocking Twine
2 chests Nuremberg Toys
A few Demijohns
A quantity ef stone pickling Pots
4 boxes of Hnglifk Chariot and Chariot Harness,
<■ with plated ornament, in complete lettsfor 2, 4,
or 6 horfes,alfo Whips, Spurs, &c.
The above Gdods are generally entitled to draw
back, are suitable for the Eait-India market, and
will be fold Besl'onible prices and at the usual
credit, by
PRATT KINTZING,
No. 95, North Water-llrcet.
April 16. t&Jiat
Ross Ssf SIMSOA ',
HAVE FOR SALE,
2 2 bales Superior Madrafs blue Cloths
Carolina Indigo, firft quality
A few bales Baftas, Coffaes, and a quantity of
Bengal COTTON
9engal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica and - ) r
Bengal j RUM
april 20 §
to beTold,
26,y 80 acres of Land,
TN the State of New York, between the northern
J. bounds of Pennsylvania and the Sufquehuina
now, or late in the townships of Hamden and
Warren and county of Warren.
These Lands, from their quality and situation,
are a viry desirable objeeft for any matt who means
to invest his money to advamage.
- On payment of one third of the purchase mo
ney, a rcafonable credit will he given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april 21. §
TO BE-SOtßf-
acres of Land.
IN Greene Ciunty, Commonwealth of Pennsyl
vania, on the waters of Fish and Wheeling
Creeksand Ten Mile Run.
These Lands are fertile and well timbered, and
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten years ago for
five shillings per acre ; patented early in 1787, e
xcept 3700 acres, which were patentud in 17915
part of them were surveyed in 1783. The tratSl
is between the Ohio and Monongahela,, very con
venient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of Washington, from 14 to 16 from the
village of Greenefburgh and Wheeling.
On payment of one fourth of the purchase mo
ney, a rcafonable credit will be given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april 2T. 5
Pennsylvania Hoipital,
4th mo. 7th, 1799*-
THE Contributors to the Pennfylvanis Hospi
tal, are te meet on the feverth day of next
f Month, being the second day of the w'eek, at the
said Hospital at three o'clock in the afternoon, to
cleft twelve Managers and a Treasurer, for the
ensuing year.
■ B\ order- (J a hoard of Managers.
SAMUEL COATES, Stc'ry.
7 dtE
I"*HK ternV of Co-partnership between the sub
scribers, trading under the firm of John Mil
ler, jun. and Co. expires this day, and by mutual
consent will not be renewed* The debts and con
cerns of the fame will be fettled by John Miller,
Jun. to whom all those the p&rtnerfhip,
are earnestly tequefted to make payment to, with
out delay.
JOHN MILLER, Jun. i,
ALEXANDER J. MILLER. *
February 19 § ( f
LANDING, I
From on board the Ship Sally, from P
Calcutta,
AND FOR. SALE BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
1600 bags prime Sugar, "
800 do. Ginger b
30 bales low priced piece Goods.
John Miller, Jun. F
march 3 ei
Alex. J. Miller iff Jd/nes Uai>is. y ft
Having entered into partuerfhip under the firm of "
Alexander J. Miller & Co.
INFORM their friendsin town and country that "
they have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store 4
at No. 64, South Frant Sireet,Philadelphia ; where'
they now have, an<J intend keeepjng a general af
fojtmetit of India, German, Irijt, French- and JBri
ti/h Mannfaftaresfor sale, on advantageous terme
for cash or a short credit.
February x» .. • \
IOTI cl *
s
ALL persons who have any demands aeainft w
the cftate of Wilum Flmtwood, of U
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de- h
ceased, are requested to exhibit their accounts, it
properly attested ; and those wl lo are indebted u
p°aymenMo' deGred l ° m3ke immedUte «
GEO.DOBSON, ) , ?
No. jj, So. Thlrd-ftr«t. 5 t ,
Janmry 4.
ifrael Morris 1
against | Maryland.
ThomasMargatroyd.JamisßeU, '• In Chancery,
JBarflcall and Benjamin Smith, r March 8,
Executors of Samuel Tucker, j 1798.
deeeafed. J
■d HPHE obje& of the bilf, is for the Complain-
X nant, Israel Morn*, to obtain relief aga'mft
ajudgment on a bond by him executed, on the
31ft day of December, 178 a, to the faidSamu
" el Tucker, for the sum of >£.200 principal.—
1S The relief is prayed on the ground, that the
Complainant afligned, by way of security for
the said money, a bond to him the Complain
ant, ejcecuted by Samuel Downing, for the film
of £.350 that the said Tucker received of the
money due oa the said last mentioned bond the
lum of £.IOO and negletfted to take fieps for
obtaining the relidue, until the slid Downing
became infoivent.
The l)ill°Rates that all the defendants are
y now reDdents of the State. It is therefore, on
his motion, adjudged and ordered, that he
id cause a copy of this order to be inserted, three
weeks successively, in some newspaper of Phila
delphia, in or near which the defendants relide,
at any time before the firft day of May next,
or served upon each of the defendants general
ly, before the said day } to the intent that they
have notiee of the complainants applicarion to
this court and of the substance and objedt of his
bill and may be warned to appear here on or
> before the third Taefday in September next, to
fliew cause,. wherefore a decree (hould not pass
as prayed.
Attest,
SAMUEL HARVEY HOWARD, ,
Reg. Cur. Cau
april 3 ccf?W
FOR SALE,
BY the subscribers, No. 21, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Cqnftjling of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
ColTaes Punjum Cloths
Sanahs Guzzeydo.
Humhums Charconna Dorea
Blue Clcth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls
Mamoodys Checks
'• Mahaiagonges Patna Hkfs.
" Ginghams Mulmul de.
Guzzenas Bandannoes
l" Oiifi ahs Siflerfoy
j Piniafcoes Chopra Romals
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Perftans of various col.
Meek Pulicats
too tons SUGAR
se,ooolb. PEPFER.
Willings & Francis.
The Piece Goods
' Of the Ganges are now open to file at that
commodious store the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-streets.
Also—A few Bales of Madrafs Hkfs. efele-.
gant patterns and belt colours.
February 8. dtf
Just Publiflied,
And to be had at the Book-stores of Messrs. Dos
son, Cawpbill, Young and Okmkoji,
• in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caules and Cure of Remitting er Bilious
Fevers.
Te which ii annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and practice of
different authors: and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interesting fadls andrsfleAion« relative t<y
the SynQohus Ifteroidti) or Yellow Fever, which'
has occasioned so much diltiefs and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the fenporc
towns of the United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felow of the Philadelphia Colleirr r.f PhyOriiwe
ancl MemSer of the American Philosophical So
ci*ty. Feb. I- *3m§
JUST RECEIVED. ~
And for sale by W.Young, corner of Second
and Chefnut-lireet, M. Carey 118 High-street
T. Dobfon, 4t 'South Second-street and the
Booksellers generally,
(Price 5-Bths «f a Dollar.)
BEACON HILL,
A Local Poetn, historic and deforiptivci
By a Lady of Bnflon.
analysis of book i.
Allusion to the surrounding Profpe£l—lnvocation'
to the River and fylvm Deities—to the Hiftorid
Mufe—Fiaiun discarded—Dedication to Wafi
ington—The A&ion cpe«s at the Retreat of the
Columbians from Bunker's.H ill—General Howe
—The Memory of his Brother—Death of War
ren—Perfonification of Fortune and Fame
VVafhiogton at Mount Vernon—called to the
chief Command—Formation of the Columbian
Camp at Cambridge—Natural, moral, or poli
tical History of the several States—Their com
manding Officers—Siege of Bofton—lts Suffer
ings—Negotiation for thefafe Retreat of the'
Bntifh Array—lts Departure—Appointment of
Congref#—Declaration of Independence—lCha
ra&cr of the Columbian Soldics—The Pact's
prophetic Apofcrophe to the Frogrefs of Free
dom through«ut the World,
march 301 j
Balkenridge—for sale
IT consists of 920 acres, almost all of which is
a fins rich Meadow, (the residence of the late
j Kurl of Sterling), It may be conveniently dixided
; into five farms, four of which are bounded on the
I East by the river Pafaiek.
There are on it a number of buildings, forming
afquare of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
is a very convenient one.andfa fmallexpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard consists of 1500 fins bearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other parts of said
traftnear 300 other Apple Frees—as also a great
variety erf other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
best and most delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautjful Exotics and
Forest Trees, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its situation is about 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
frfim Morris-l'mvn, and 12 from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acrff
in cash, on delivery of the deeds. Pleai'e to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chefnnr -treet.
February 2. eodtf
~ FOR SALE,
Two three ftorv Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &e. fittoateon
Water street, between Mulberry an'J Saffatras
Streets, containing in front on Water street sis- w
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to
south thirteen .feet fix inches. These houses*
have the convenience of a public alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and area very defirablefit
uation for a a merchant, flour faftor, or others
who may have occasion for, fto,'age of goods.
This property will be fold on very realoaable
terms for ralh. For further information apply
to the printer,
april 5 m&wif
apnl s