## States, ™ Philadelphia i)ady Advertiser*
By John Ward Fen no, N°* 119 Chefnut Street.
ISCMBEJt 1911.3
Remote Subscribers For this Ga-
zette are requested to forward pr. post,
the arrearages due from them refpeftive- ,
ly. Postmasters who may have receiv- natha
ed fublcriptions arc earneftiy desired to ni3) .
remit the fame. At this interesting and ryl.n,
diftrefllng crisis, attention to this notice
will peculiarly oblige the Editor.
11, - 1
For SALE or CHARTER,
the ship
MOLLY, \\
Burthen 4iee barrels of Flour, 1
Philadelphia built, well found
fitted, and may be ready 7
Vo receive a cargo in a few daye—fhe is pierced , 7
18 guns, and mounts 12 new fix pounders, with i s
Yhnall arms in proportion. 15
THE SHIP 33
DIANA, 33
Burthen 3,100 barrels of Flour,
TliiliHtlphia. built of live oak
CVliSsi-V '-''"and c«dar, i» pierced for four
teen guns, rnd mounts ten new four pounders,
with f.nall arms in proportion.
n THE BRIG
AMAZON,
Burthen 1,300 birrels of Flour,
New-England built, has lately
been completely fitted, and may be ready for sea
m a Hew days.
For terms apply to
NICKLIN y GRIFFITH.
Who have for Sale
mm /".«'l*y MjtCVS'HoOK,
22,000 buihels of Liverpool fine fait I
1,100 bushels of coals * equ,
sB6 crates of queens ware aborted ablj
7 tierces of bottled porter seal
10 barrels of colcothard paint pofi
4 <lo. of purple brown do. to 1
a quantity of yellow ocre in calks 2
6 bawds powdered Venetian red paint the
6 birrels mineral black do. deti
*5 barrels .*.panifn brown do. wh
35 boxes of pipes - full
9 j boxes white HAVANA SEGARS C I U
89 do. brown J con
j,jaclbs. prime cochineal teri
3 barrels New Orleans indigo nu
4 puncheons Jamaica spirits the
ao bales of fail canvass 3
37c) (heets of copper, alTorted from 48 by 24 arti
' to 60 by 48 inches wil
Two tubs raised still bottoms aflorted prii
36 fix pound guas 44 feet, 8 jfwt each so I
14 do. 4 feet, icwt and 4ltis each C re
50 barrels of gun powder *. <
ii cases Manchester cotton checks kir
3 trunks muslins and shawls the
14 cases muflinets, dimities and ginghams the
ail chests coloured nankeens, muflinets, &c. thi
I 1 trunks printed calicoes pul
& bales of whits and coloured caffirneres an l
1 bale of w«o!I««»- {ha
Engliflj nails aflorted. at
Oflsbera;. fri.&Tat. tf.
For Sale. p"
T I 'HE Subscriber, intending to decline the thi
, it DRUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the otl
■whole Stock of ni
Drugs and Medicines, Instruments, ofl
"the fliqp is elegant, commodious, aud fuffici-
■ently known for the extensive business cone in the nl
wholesale and retail line ; the situation equal to cl '
any in the city, being at the coiner of Walnut and
Second llrcets. The whole, or any part of the
Stock, will be fold, as will best suit the purchaser.
The terms ni»y be known, by applying to
JAMES MOORE, jun.
JVio has For Sale,
for the river trade—
The Peggy, about 30 tons burthen,
Mulberry and Red Eed r frame, and remarkably
flout, of an easy draught »f water, rigghig in
good order.
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
well, and in complete order for the lumber business.
ypT All persons indebted to the late firm si
Goldthixait S3* Baldwin, W. B. Goldtbwait, Guij
tbvait tf Moore, or the fubferiber, are earneftiy
requeued t« make fpeeoy payment to
JAMES MOORE, jun.
august 3 §
Ship Brokers.
This Eflablifhmcnt, comwenced hy the Tate Mr.
Samuel Smith, will be continued by
Row ts* Simmons,
WHO refpe&fully acquaint the Merchants,
Traders, and Mailers of vessels; that nu
paina or exertions (Hall be wanting to givo general
fatisfaSiou .This business will be conducted at their 1
gt«re, No. i 07, South Water Street, near to the j
CuftomHoufe. ■'
OiSoher 17 dtf f
For Sale, or Charter,
1 BE DAMSU BRIO
NOW lying at Burlington,a vo j
ry 13 failcr. —For tcimsappyto
JACOB SHOEMAKER. 1
WHO HAS FOR. SALE,
Her cargo, of about 2,000 bushels of '
St. Martin's Salt.
10 mo. i4th. '9B dtot.
GETTRGE DAVIS,
TAKES this opportunity of informing
hi* friends geacr.lly.tliatfo soon as the pre
fsnt sickness will a3r-.it it, he proposes to offer for
fcle, tbe molt extenGvj colkaion of
LAW BOOKS,
heev.r imported, or that wis ever imported rnto
the United States.—The lase arrivals have brought
h:m a sumber of extremely valuable and t:arcc
BOORS, and those expelled, will greatly add to
the quantity.
Oftober 27. £od,w
j}y JUrir* VV -L r.l JL J. y
~~P~HYL ADE L P 111 A: THURSDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER i, <79B* (Ta&t/JM XIV.
Public Notice is hereby Givenj
• ■ A cti t
THAT PropoTaU und«r fealcdcovers, will be
received on the behalf of tlie United States
until the twentieth day of O<3ober next, by Jo '
. oat hart Jackfoa, Esq. it Boftoo, Miffichuletts, y
Tench Francis-, Esq. PhitadelpHia, Ptnnfylva-- tU
' nia, and John Jswann, Efq- at Baltimoiei Ma-
I ryland, for supplying tfcp following articles of \\l
. cloathing, fbr the army of the Uaited States, »
viz. '
FOR INFANTRY.
8,448 Hats, of th
jo 4 Serjeant Coats mid
504 ditto veils cases,
1,008 pairs do. jvoollen overalls infall
1,008 ditto (io. linen ditto l«m
, 1,016 ditto shirts low j.
1 264 Musicians coats fcrf.n
f 7,680 Privates coates tuli
1 , 7,944 ditto vests ""i't
1 15,888 ditto woollen overa!.s ls 'd'
15,888 ditto linen ditto a<, d'
31,776 ditto shirts
33,791 pairs of Socks
33,711 pairs of fooes , f -
8,448 flocks of bUck leather
8,448 blankets. tient
>, FOR CAVALRY. ' attet
6 Musicians coats la
26 Serjeant coats ,
26 ditto veils VP
104 ditto shirts dolla
348 Privates coats A
V 354 ditto vests ;
/ 1416 ditto shirts p cr f
760 pair of Leather breechefc w ;j[
760 pair of ftbekings ,j, an ,
pair of boots lang
380 Stocks of black leather p or;
380 Stock clafpi the
, 380 Blankets. , nica
iff. Every article (hall be made of ir.tterials, j,
equally good, and in form, orfalhion,confoiin- der
ably to patterns far the lame, sealed with the day
fcal of the War-Office, and wWch will be de- V
posited with the several gentlemen, empowered this
to receive the proposals, as above mentioned. Mr,
id. Sworn Infpedots (hall be appointed 011 by (
the part of the United States, to examine and
determiee upo» the several articles aforefaid, |h e
when tbe faroe (ball be ready for delivery, with e
. full power to rejeiSl every article, which Ihall not
equal, in goodliefs of matarials, or to be made
conformably to, the falhion of the flandard pat
tern for the fame; and no allowance fijall be
made, for any article which Oaall be rejected by
them, for the causes aforefaid.
3d. The proposals muftfpecify the number of
14 articles, and their kinds, which tke party is
willing to furnifti, together with, the lowest
prices for immediate payment in money, and al
io the prices, on Che lougel! term, or terms of T
ch credit. wo
One third of each, and wrery ef the several tioi
kinds of the above articles, to be delivered on a
tbe fifteenth day of December, one third ou
is the fifteenth day of January, and the remaining
fee. third on the firft day of March next; ar.d the
public will not be as bound to receive
i any of the aforefaid articles of cloathing, wlikli
fhalLnot be ready for infpe£l»ja, and delivery,
at the periods agreed upon. 1
4th. The cloathing aforefiid will be received
in the several states, at the places', and in the
proportions following, viz. One third part of Sii
the the whole at Springfield, Miflachuletts, one
the other third at Philadelphia, state of Pennlylva- bo
nia, or at Lamberton, Hate of New-Jerfev, and fy
if OR4 third at Baltimore, Maryland. c '<
sth. No contrail will be made, for a less to
(t i le number of each of the aforefaid articles of in
I to cloathing, than is requisite for a company, viz. ne
and FOR THE CAVALRY. ' «
the 4 Serjeant Coats ( - n
'f er - 4 ditto vests
16 ditto shirts j
"* I Musician Coat
58 Private coats
59 ditto vests j f
fry 436 ditto shirts
W 63 flocks I
63 flock clasps
126 pair of leather breeches
en 126 pair of stockings
, .' 126 pair of boots
ab ! y 63 blankets
g m FOR THE INFANTRY.
lils 7° Hlt9 P
f 4 Serjeant coats \
° 4 ditto vests *' i_!S' f
r j o!dm 8 ditto woollen overalls a
8 ditto linen ditto >
16 ditto shirts
M . % Mijficians coats I
§ - 64 Private coats f
132 ditto woolen overalls
132 ditto-linen ditto. f
264 ditto Shirts <■
280 pair of Socks f
280 pair of Shoes, f
70 Stocks, v
70 Stock Clasps, (
70 Blankets. c
Mr. JAMES M'HENRY, 1
Secretary ef War.
War Department, > J
ants, lift Sept. 1798. S
acrJ J 0^11 Haines £ff Wm. Jones, j
their leave toir.form their'friends and the public,
o t he 13 that they have commenced a Co-partnerfkip
in ths SADDLING BUSINESS, which will in
<Jtf future be aarried on under ths firm of
HAINES (s* JONES,
11 Market flreet, N»* 132, one door above the
corner of Fourth, —where they presume (at lraft
to hape) thattheir attention to, and knowledge in
bufmefj, their determination to serve on the best
,a ve " terras, and their known attaofament as Native A
;.mericans to the Government and Csnftitution of
their Country, will entitle them to the encourage
, mentof a generous public. Althotgh they can
-15 01 no t boast of having acquired their experience in
any part of Europe, yet they take the liberty of
[ot pledging themfclves, that their manufacture fhal
—— be inferior to none in this city.
iune 26. tiitKstf
mi "S Bank of the United States.
Philadelphia, Septsnaber 21, 1*96.
The public is hereby informed, that
an Office of Deposit and Discount will be opened
d info on Monda y uext » at houft* lately occupied by
•011 ht AMU4t Ricuardet, near the Market House in
f. a p CC Germartown—where the bufinicft of thislnflitu'
add* to t ' on during the continuance o.
the malignant fever now pr« vailing in Phiiadelphia
Jjw HENRY KUKL, jjf'f.ant Cejbior.
September 22 d
HAPPY DISCOVERT.
A total* Curt fur thai u.arming and dreadful Difordcr
The Yellow Fever, a i
As tuell at any other dangerous pu'ril fever, fever and u
and other in-jztsrate Mi:l cuWpf.uiieJdifcafes, ly ve *.rt
tU uj: of tbe a " d , e "
POUDRE UNIQUE,
WELL known and patented in.England, France, j
Poland, and all the capital cities in Europe, hay* m
where tue moB adomOiing cures luv? been m
ed -on pcrfoirs judged incurable by all phyficiaus. a j rea^y
In aTrcatife printed in London, on the properties waref< ! <
of this powder, by T. Seymour. M. D lateCkt®- ,
mill to his Majefly, there are stated tw^hundred com '^
cases, where this mod valuable remedy has proved . o
infallible, in all kind of fevers, pletsrtfy, bloody fiu* t f ront f
infer ate rbeumiitifms t ftatUa, aboplexy, aialyfie, yel
tow jaundice, ringworm y 'worms, if* children and in grown a a °
perf*ns y white*, chronical head and flo mack aches, he pa- a
tick and nepbretical or stone cbolic, the kings evil, Jcurvy eap Q
and tie mof inveterate and complicated venereal disease. 1 fioient
is like wife the best preparative for ths fraall pox
and mealies; ol ths greatelf utility lor young as j ir „ c 1;
well as for elder ladies at the critical epoch of their .
'life. The efficacy of this powder 111 lsveral of the . __
above diseases has been dilcovered by chance, and
so it has been in the yellow fever last year, by Mr. trC( , s
, Mahy, whto cured several by adnunifteriiiK only Bride |.
two of the said powders, and loft not a single pa- . f
fient which he undertook to cure, as proved and nia ; n< j,
attelledby the here annexed certificates, whose ori-
filial may be seen at Andrew Hadfegs umbrella fiop, j- r ; n
N». I3T, corner of Chefnut and Fourthflreets, the oil
ly place where these powders are to ba had, with '
proper dire&ions for the use of them.—Price ttw
dollars. dated
The ufefulnefs and certainty of this remedy be- Tories
ing so great for so many dangerous disorders, any
pcrfon wilhing to be provided with those powders, cc jj el) |
willpleafe to apply very soon, as the quantity at
hand is rot very large, and it is doubtful it for a , .
long time, or if ever any other genuine will lie irn- (
ported, the secret remaining only in the hands of
the inventor, in Europe, and il'ever iieing conjmu- j_ 8m
nicated to, or discovered by any othsr person. t ' h< _
s i N. B- In the yellow and putrid fevers, this pow- twu
4 " der mull betaken thj lccond, or at Laflthe third rcnl ! l j
ie day. _ C Mr
:- U'e the fubferibers, durirg the late sickness in
:d this city, having taken the yellow fever, applied to q
Mr. Mahy for his medical aiitlance, vte do here- j
in by certily, that by .» certain powder, cal'ed the " ' '
j Pnidrc (J/iijac, ws were perfedly recovered from
the fit'd fatal sickness, and from an experience of
I, the happy eifeAs of the above moll valuable medi-
3t cine, consider it our duty to make the fame knawn,
j. for the benefit of our fellow citizens.
Margaret Jones, - T -
Mylus O'Connor, \\)
36 Jffife Turner, rr
»y Christen Rebecca Dow,
Catherin Apple, ™ei r
Ann Grover,
is William Bills, m ™
David \STilliams, carpenter, ,
il- William T Donaldfon, mast-maker. w °.
of Mr. Mahy's well known Plaifter, for all kind of
wounds and fores, to be had at the above direc-
•al tion, No. 131, Chcfnut flreet. jjJ
>n august 8 aawtf are r
}U ————— 1
ag ANOTHER S7RONG PROOF
Of the great and unparalleled efficay of
It Dr. GffURCH's COUGH DROPS,
■y, Ib the Care of as
Coughs, Colds, Asthmas & Consumptions.
Ed Ne-w-Tork, July 10, '798.
tie To Dr. Church, rr-*
of Sir, !_
ine For upwards of Twelve Tears, 1 have la f ma ]
bored under a severe Cough, ftiortnefs of breath aD4 j
,nd fyitting of matter from my lungs and often of f urt ]
clotted Dlood, till at length I wajs so reduced as aj
less to be unable to walk across my room, and ow- — —
of ing to the vi lence of my <;oukli aud the flvori- I'O
iiz. ness of breath could get no fefl day or night.—
Hearing of your excellent medicine, ( the Cough j
Drops, I procured a bottle ; i took a dose as 2
soon as I got it, from which I found iiiitantane
ous relief, and by continuing it for three days,
1 bless God lam rellored to perlefl health. As j
I believe you to have been the itiflrument if) the j
hands of Providence, of laving my life, lrnnlt n
intreat you to publifb this for thi-benefit of any j
who may be in my situation, as 11111 confident j
it is one of the best medicines in (.he wni ld tor
those complaints.
I atn, Sir, you'- grateful str-vont'
NICHOLAS STAGG,
Little Robinson-street. ,
CHURCH'S COUGII DROPS,
Are prepared and fold by thelnventor and sole zl
proprietor, Dr CHURCII, at his Difp«nfary,
VVafhington-ffreet, New-York, and at his of
fice, No i, South T'turd-ftreet, Philadfiphia,
and fold by appointment at Mr Weedmin's j iB
William-street, and Stilwell & Deioreft, 162
Pearl-street, New-York. Mancius, Albany,
Price, Baltimore, Thomas, Alexandria, Wil
son, Wilmington, &c. &c.
OBSERVE,
As a counterfeit preparation of this medicine
has been indaftrioutly circulate*! through some
of the principal cities in the United States, per- C<
sons are requested to purchal'e them of luch per
sons only as have pr Church's appointment for
vending the fame. Powers, f'oughkeepfie —
Chappel, Head of Elk—Bond and Co. New-
caftle—Heinitfh, Lancafter—Blauvelt, Brunf-
Sf, wick (N.J.) Gordon, Trenton, ftc.
r tr. *** Patients letters (post-paid) addrelTed to
Dr Church, New-York, duly attended to.
august ao 1 2aw3w
ic Public Notice is Hereby Given,
rfkip "DURSUANT to the afl of Coßgrefs, pasTed
ill in on the day of June 1798, entitled,
" ail a<3 refpecling Loan Office and final settle
ment certificates, Indents «f interest, and tbe
. unfunded or regittered debt credited in the
Jl' books «f the Treasury."
e *j' n id. That on the application of the creditors (
e best rafpeifivejy, or their legal attornies at any time
ve A- a^ter t ' le da y December in the present
on of year, the principal sums the unfunded or re- _
irage- gilered debt of the United States credited on
f can- the books of the treaf iry, orcommiffioners of
ace in Loans will be reimbuifed at the treasury of the
rty of United States.
c ftal 2d. That interest upon the unfunded or re- .
giftered debts aforefaid will cease from and as- t
Kstf rer the last day of December in the present year, t
3d. That the creditors refpeflively will be Jj
entitled on requisition to receive from tbe pro- j
1 ~9%- per officers of the treasury, certificates of fur.d
that ed three per cent Hock, equal to the arrearages c
ipened of Interefl due on the debts aforefaid prior to ,
ed by the firft day of January, one thonfand seven hun
ufe in died and ninety ohe.
nflitu- Hy order of the Board of Commi/Jioners
'cc o. of the Sinking Fund,
: lph,a Edward Jones, see'ry.
— —r ■ 1
r O R SALE,
SALISBURY.
A LA KGB and well improved farm, contain
upwards of twenty'fivo hundred acces le- O
vel fertile land, remarkably well adapted to grass, I k
and every kind of grain; there a.e now one hu i- Willi:
dred acres oi Timothy meadow on perhaps not Amia]
excelled, froni which, I have cut this year between quelle
one hundred and eighty, and two hundred tons o£ llble,
hay; upwards of three hundred acresr;6r* of this order
land may be converted into meadow, equftl to thac aBC j re
already made, the greater part of which may be j he
watered at a small expence. There are u>n this g® up^
land, a comuaodious two story dweliiag-houfe,
completely iiniihed, with .ten rooms and a pufTage,
eight of the rooms h;»ve fire place?; a portico in p ec ji t j,
1 front, fifty leer in length, and eight wide; a large
paled garden, a well of excellent water In theyard B Trpr
also a barn seventy-two feet by twenty-fix, with 1 I
sheds at the fides and ends, fufticicnt to hold sixty ftj,
' heap of black cattle, a well cooftru&ed liable, fyf- Oolle«f
ficient to hold twenty horses ; with every other aU( j er
building that may be convenient or ufeful ior a m aLe
I family; upwards ot three hundred apple trees bonds
(just beginning to ot cholen gralted fruit, j on,the
; a number of cherry, pear, quince, and dame- j oil
foa trees, upwards ot two thousand bearing peach '■
' trees. Abode one fourth of th« land is cleared, and
under good fence ; th? pafl'ure lands uj* well taken., and f
7 with red clover and other valuable grata Ihe re
mainder is in woods and generally well timbered.
The whole i 9 well watered, having Feveral constant
' springs ; and two streams running through differ
ent parts thereof, on one of them is a fmail coun- f cilc
1 try grill mill, and a law mill. The purchaser can at tern
0 hive immedt.tt« poffefHon, and may be accoimno- ota^ tl
dated with twenty valuable field negroes, with 0
horses, black cattle, iheep, hogs, and every necef- font y
y fary farming utensil. Jalilbury is Ikuared in ex- tativo
celient neighbourhood, and remarkanU: healthy, »
C is twenty-fix miles by lO'iafurenient from
a about twenty miles irom Potomack bridge at
r the Little falls, and not more than twenty-five _
_ from the city of Wafliington, and on tha pott road j\j
Irern Alexandria to V. inchc2er. A tmall part of nc^j,
the purchafo money, will be required in hand; one, Qr »j
j tw«, and three years credit will be given for the
remainder. been
Mr. Zaccheus Collins of Philadelphia will give (
any gentlemen who apply to him an account ot the g
0 situation of this plac*. For further particulars ap
ply t» the fubferiber on the premises.
Ie r SAMUEL LOVE.
Virginia, Fairfax county "p\
September 24, 1708. izw. JLJ
n', ADVfRTISEMENr.
inch
WHEREAS James Comming 53* Co. late ol bori
the city of Philadelphia, merchants, have t0 t]
afTigned over all their effeAs, real, perfooal and rc fi (
mixed, to the iubferibcra, for the benefit ol all w j|j
their creditors, who fball fubferibe the fald alfign -pre!
ment within fix months from the data hereof. jail
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, toallperfons the
who arc indebted to the said estate, that they are
f required to make immediate payment of their res- j
0 poctive accounts, to the Assignees, at their office, ——
:c " No. 62, Dock street, in "failure whereof aiftion:
will be inflituted for the recovery of such debts as T"
are not discharged accordingly.
John Travis,
John IVaddington, ( Affi
James Taylor, f 0 qu
'» Cornelius ComegysJ on
august 18 mwftlD tor
TO BE SOLD,
nHHE time of an indented Dutch Servant BOY *er
x. who has ten years to fervc. He lias had thi. Rs
' a small pox and measles, is'ailive, hearty and ftrony.
itb fit-fear lioufe work in town or country. For,
further information, enqvire of the printer,
as august 4 *
>n.- For Sale,at the Stores cf the Sub- X
• fcribers, on Walnut ttrect Wharf,
'S 1 ' i 9 j ca(k%of nails aHoried J3,
J8 2 o bales ef fail calivafi, from No. I toB M
ftß " 5 3 calks yellow ochre G;
l^s> 1 ; tierces bottled port,er, 6ro 14 doz. each w
® T.oiidoit particular ) Made ; ra Wines
India niarket 5 A
1 Tcnenffedo. in hogfheads/nd pip in
a "y Old Port do. in lihds. ar
Eiu.]ity CUrct liotlles ar
tor 6 cafe>i of Gin ;lianis, Di*miiicf, Muflinets &.c. ft
aiTorfc«i for the Vv'eti-India market
4, 10, and 9 inch cables and to crtil's of cordage rt
Writing fiatcs, ink stands and prelfet ul
'• »o pui'ChcoKS' Jamiica rum "
I bale seaming twine
160. Vundles fhealiiing paper
lr V> Nuk/i/i is" Griffith.
,!,ia', th& '- cf
Bengal Goods, y
any, , qonijSTiNO ci r 1
Wil- BANDANNA handkerchiefs,
Chintz ColTis I Mahirazgungy
Chintz Guzzinas | Tookereya
ic ine Eliabad Baftas I Wrought Muflir.j
ome f- or -g Drawers |
per- Coarse Sugars in bags, fit for the European markets
per- also,
t f or Carolina f»di<»o
f - e Coffee in hoglheads ,
j A few pipes of very old and very choice Madeira j
; WINE .
For Sale, en reasonable terms, by (
1 John Craig,
No. 12, Dock-ltreet. ,
|W juiy 14 mw£tf
NOTICE.
r< l n ' Bank of North America,
;£ th < v9B
-- r Perfans who h-ve N»iesot Bills to pay
1 tVI " X at this Bank are inforaied,
1 That regular Notices will be put under a sealed
1 c»ver directed to the refpailivs payer and lodged
in the Poft-Office every Mon.Uy until the return
! ors of the cit lawns.
RICHARD irELLS, Cafi.ee:-.
cfent aug. i 9 dtl
or re- ■ —
d on SOUTHWARK.
«» ot OHohtr 8, 1798.
T> ÜBLIC NOTICE rs HEREBY
, r re . £ GIVEN, That the Commiflioners of
id as- the Diftri& of Southwark have removed
year, their Hall to the usual place, commonly
ill be known by the name oi James Lille's School.
; P™" Hotife, in consequence «f the rapid decline
fund- j. Epidemic- Fever, especially it> the
irages ... f c r '
ior 6 to vicinity thereof.
n hun- By order of the Board of Commissioner
Wm. LINNARD, Prefidcnt.
s Attest,
ua d, William Pesross, CUr h, fro fern,
ry. j October § ft 1
CUSTOM HOUSE *
Chejicr, isd Qlti
NOTICE
To the MERCHANTS of Philadelphia.
, The owners and consignees of goods by the
William Pcun, Philadelphia, Jane,
Amiable and other vefTtls lately arrived, are rt*
' quelled to forward to this Office as soon as pof«
fible, their rcfptilive entries and invoices, iu
• order that permit j tor landing may be
aid ready to hand them, to toon as the return
ing health of the City wHI admit the veffcls id
'! g* U P> A due attention to this notice may be of
■ convenience to the merchants, who probably
' will be delirous to receive their goods vtry ex
! peditioufiy. GEO. LATIMER,
• _ lot _ _ Colleffor.
' THE Owners of Goods on board
' the fhtp Wiiliam Penn, are inform.d that the
Collector of the Customs will rsceive such invoices
r and e.'.'ne* as may be forwarded to him, and will
1 make the neceffarj calculations and prepare the
• bondsfo th»r permits may be granted immediately
■ \ on the arrival of the (hip at Philadelphia.
Oflober n. § Iw
d I'his Day is PubliJhed, "
U
AN ADDRESS
To the People of Maryland,
ON the origin, progress and prefefit (late of
French aggrdm;n. with a (ketch of the infamous
n attempts t» degrade the Government of the United
j. Statu, and fi;me reflection- on the late proceedings
h in Congress; written the lafl of April in the pr c _
(- font year, by a Member of the House of Reprefelf,.
t- tativfc. § juneii '
fa —*
Pennfylvania Hospital,
, e 9 mo. 1,1798.
id \T° P !rfoß vvit * ,in '')feistious disease, tan bq
u s J-N admitted into this house ;it is therefore ear
ne-flly recommended to the citiiens, not to feud
| ie ' or • ring any such patient to the gate, who is ill
w icji the prevailing fever. Several perfonii having
ve been lent here improperly, is the reason of giving
this caution.
P- sSManage!?!,} FRANCIS HIGG!M.&«V.
Ten Dollars Reward.
DESERTED from tie GBard House in New-:
__ Castle, this morning;, Stetuen Bowden, a
private Marine, belonging to the Frigate United
Statiit. He is about 36 years of age, five feet ten
inches high, fair completion, light hair, blue eyes,
ol boru in England, and by trade a Bricklayer. Pncsr
ve to the jth of June, the date of his enhiLinsnt, ):t
n jj resided in Philadelphia, where it is probable he
1 will endeavour to go. Any person who will ap-
I n prcheud tht said deserter, agd secure him in any
jail within the United States, (hall be entitled to
,ns the above reward.
E. WHARTON, Capt. Marinas.
«- New Castle, Oft. 8.
ice, _
an, TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
> as from my Detachment at Borden.
\J town this day, a Marine, by name Gtorgi
Rodman, a Native of Ireland about 25 yean of ago
fW< fe&t eight or nine inches high, d irk complec
ts tion, black hair tied; black eyes well mads and
quarrelsome, when is liquor is food of singing—had *
on a blue seaman's jackett light pantaloons, cot
ton Stockings, round Hat, and had under his Paa
taloons a pair of Nankeen Breeches.
Whoever apprehends and fends the said Defer
-3Y Ur to the Marine Camp, (hall receive the above
thL Rsward.
Oaober 1,, .798 ? HEN , RY £ WILLIAMS,
For, y S Lt. Marines
, PROCLAMATION.
BY virtue of a precept lromJoHN D. Coxe,
Ffquire, president of the court of Oyer and
Terminer and general goal delivery for the trial of
all capital and other offences in the county of
Bucks ; and Henry Wtnkoo* and Francis
Muurav, judgesof the fame court—A court of
Oyer and Terminer, and general goal delivery,
will be held at Newtowo, in the said county of
Btuks, on Monday the sth day of NoTimbcr r.ext.
All those who will prosecute again!) the prifoneri
in the goal of said county, are required to be then
and there to prosecute against them as (hall be juft—
and all the justices of the peace, coroners and co:i«
i &.C. fUblis, within the said county, i.re required to be
then and there, in their proper persons, with their
dage rolls records, inquisitions and examinations and
other their remembrances, to do those 'hings which
to their offices belong, in that behali to be
done, &c. DANIEL THOMAS,(heriff.
Oit. 4, 1798. 3 taw
h. FLOUR FOR SALE
By the Suhfcribtrs,
~ Deliverable at any of ports on the Dela
ware—who have also on hand at their (lores, a
quantity of 3arlron, Pork and Corn—Letters by
the poll will be attended to.
Levi Ho'lingswortb £<f Son.
august tB. dtf
~ ~W ILL IA MM' L A Wj,
arkets S/IDLER b J HARNESS MAKER,
HAS Removed to the Corner of Chefnut
and Twe.lfth-ftrcets, 00 the Commons,
where he will receive and execute the orders of
adeira his friends and wholesale enftomers, with usual
attention & expedition during the prevalence of
the present Epidemic, where it las not made its
appearance this season, nor disring any of the
eet l years .
* stf ' august ei i
fOR
The Cargo of the Schr. Sincerity
58. Benjamin Monteith Mailer, from Lagvira,
CONSISTING Of
' ° 945 Fenegas of Cocoa
sealed * ooz 01 Flora ,ndi S°
aio Bales of Cotton
" 4 Packagesof Goat Skins
By Wi/lingJ & Francis.
No. Eleveiith itreet,
h i"<y dtf
Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
EB.Y Searfaukers and Carradarries,
f of the Rtweft and mod approv«d patterns,entitled
ltfrs 0 to the drawback, just received,
noved A N» ru> sale »*
monly /ilex. J. Miller & Ca.
chool. No. 64, South Front flre«.
lecliae may 18. %
itv the FOR SALE, Br
J OHN MILI.ER, JUN.
f NO. 8, CHIINUT STRUT,
100 hogflieads RUM^
Of high pro«f and fine 9«T9»f
$1 1? «REMOVAL.
THE office of the f ecrc-ary ef the ComwOTin-
er«-or into eftS the wenty-lirft
ur'iclc of the treaty nf Iriendfhip, limits and ikivi
gHtion, between HU Cathniic Majeily and tie If
nitcd States of America, i», for the present, rtmev- H
ed from So ?4, foatb Second tlreet, to a larje rei
t\vo (lory brick house on the right hand, roing to
,jp the Germantown road, usually called MaHers*
house. . .
Ihote concerned are informed that, notwith- Qs
flanging the prevalence of the fever in f hiladelphia an
daily attendance has been, and will continue 10 be ; n
given at the fai l office, until the return of the citi- jy
zens; & that on ih« feveuteenth day of November -
the terra cf rightuen months will expire fiace
the day on wh::h th; tiimm iffioners alfcm -led or
after which period no complaints cf applications b)
«n po/Tiily 'oe received by them pi
Letters apdinclofures poll-paid will beduly at- •j|
tended /• h- ,1,
PETER LOHRA, Secretary. . l "
Oiitoher 18, 17<)S. § iot f
Jiifl imported itt fi*p s William Penn, A*
m'tableand J (an, front London, ar
A qHantity of Cannon,flzes 4,6 & 9 lb.") with balls j
( a'ronaoes, T J lbs. j suitable. .
Mufquets, Mofquetoons.Cutlafles and") & '
Kiftols, for (hips use, I g.
RiilnJ barreled Guns. Fowling Ficces, t
and Horfcm<n's Viflols, 1 Hr
400,000 Flints, chiefly for mulkets, in ; g" "
le;s. ■ J »
Regulation I,ii;ht Dragoon Sabret, with Iron Scab
liard.i, in cafe* of 50 sach, 7
tight Cavilry SwnrJs is Cife»
Sabres, hwords andCutinff s, with plated mountiag
Ironmongery ji.d Cutlery in Calks, a general af
forinietit—For Sale by d
Thomas & Jno. Kctlard, r;
Phua.l QfloHer aj. *
. A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC. ™
JOHN A. SH AEFFER, ofPhita'delphia, who hat it
for ix few y> ars pail been in the fouihem Stntes, f c
has had the effrontery to draw fevcral Bills of Ex- t1
change oh Timothy Pickering, Esq. Secretary of
State; ani mylelf,and by th 'f means hisdefrauled
* nunil'ar of pet Cons of their money, deceiving ei
tIT-jp by an exhibition of l.tters and papers vt tth t!ic ai
names affixed of divers public characMeis and repu p
t ible mcrchaats highly rec»mn»end»toty of said n
Shaeffer; to one of th-fe papers I find nvy name .
fuhfcril ed, but Ido not kr ow the man ; these are 1
villainous 1 :ro prevent further.impofttion, n:
I have to retyu'ft \ riot* rVof Newtpapers.in the ai
United Srates to puoiilh this <»r the bcr.«<it of iheir 0
)oA VIUK 1. iMfiREOI IH,
Tretfurcr ofth: United States.
* >TtaUn t Hem 7 er fy*~\.
BcUer 14.
United States 7 ~
Peni'fylvrn'a DiftriA. j
TN pursuance of a writ to me dire,led from the
1 honorabl; Richard Peters, efqr. jnJf e of the
ilidriut court of the Un ted Stater, in and for the P 1
Pen»fy vanii i.ilrid, willfce exposed to public fjle, b<
at the borough 01 CheOer, in the county of Dela- f
ware, on \To iday the sth day of November next,
at 12 o'clock at 1 oon, •
I lar'ge ntw cable pieces of fail cloth
I do. worn do. t ship > bell
I l'-iall do flo. 7 irou bound «ater caflcs J
I cable about i inches A denn rafc or it achine F
j o'd in. t do. to press goods when A
1 o .I of cord-ige loading 7
ad> of do n:* j iron cranij £
2 (blinding lines of on< r new flag
bundrett and fourteen, t do. jack
and fiity (athoms t pennant
I main f-il 4 copper kettles and lids L
I fore-tw, -fail 1 tea kettles
I main-t' p iail t coffee kettle
, j,|, A fftiall copper pot & lid ,
I mnin trp stay fail 4 cfmpaffis
31U rtd-Kg-lails A f—iall anchor
4 under ll udding fails 36 casks of ruin and about
I fun fail 12 c?.(k* ot sugar.
Theartirlri afotefaid being n< w on board the
brig tpfci.ilailio* lying at Clfelter, in the port of
PhilaJilphia and diftriit of Pennsylvania—The
lame having ' eca saved from the wre:k of the
paailh (hip Den Godchenfiglr. at sea, and libelled
acaintt for lalvage. r(
WU.I.IAM NICHOLS, Mafthal. w
Marlhal's office, Pel. 15.
I To Be Let, ~ j
For Six Months, from the firjl of Novcm- tl
her next, 1
A COMMODIOUS three flory brick house, 0
with extensive back buildings situated S
No. 153, South Second Street.—Filr terms t
apply to . li
JAMES LYLE. 0
So<itli Seventh, near Chefnut Street. n
TT To Be Le«? r
And immediate pofffftoh Given, t
ACOMMODIOUSThreeStory Brick House
with convenient back buildings, situated c
rt the noiih weft corner of Third and Walnut v
ftretls. —For terms anply to ,
Dr. THOMAS PARKE. j
No. 20, South Fourth Street. ,
Oclolirr 29 dtf
To be l'old or Rented, J
THE fmbferiber's ho»fe, No. 78, Walnut
f! rect, with a c#llat and two Babies—Poffeflion or I
the house will be given early in November—the I
stables ard collar immediately. > «
GEORGE MEAD c
Oilobtr 24, §t[ ,
Whereas the certificate of two {
shares of the Hank of the United States in the t
name of Samuel Amory, of London, hanker,
No 3181/iflued in lieu of HJ93, u« 4»wepe
forwarded from London by the British packet
CoUßtef*, of Leicefler, eapt. Dodd, bound for
New York, which packet was captured by the
French, and the fanl certificate loft ; and for the
renewal of which, application is made at said
Bank, and all perl'ons concerned are desired to
take notice. „ ,
CLEMENT BIDDLE. !
Fhila. Otfl. 26, 179 s - eo6w 1
ISLoticelsliereby given, I
l\JlAT'application willte made to the treasury '
cf the Vnited Hates for the rentiVal of the follow- I
't certificates of fix per cents funded debts, stand
- •" the namr of Jane Gabriette Rigaud, of Gen l , va, (
which were loft from on hoard the Swallow Pack- .
et, Caut. Kidd,from Falmouth to New-Yoik.
Bolls.
No. 3195. Reg office 19th May'9s,Icerr.1cerr. for 1000
l' lßt. do. 14th do. do. t Jo. for 3500
{fillings W Francis.
October : 1 ■ , eod6w.
Notice is hereby given,
THA T sppliuuion will be made to the Treasu
ry of the United States, for the renewal of the
Allowing Certificates of Six Per Cert Fun krd
Stork, stand ing ii\the name of Jcb» CatimeU, of
London, the said Certificates having l e:n loft on
!vj;.rJ the Swallow Packet, Ceptain Kidd. from
Falmouth to New-York
AV. 3072 I Cert, for 2000 dolls.
2964. 1 do. 5900
i°>s77 1 3000 J
IVtlhngs Us Francis.
rhiUdslphij, a«guft 30. " 6vT
cbAthrjiiici/rL
HKAL. TH-OKFICE.
O&oher 26.
Application having been made to the
Board of Managers of the Marine and City et
Hospitals, to d'fpcnfe with the quarantine
required by 'aw, in the cafe of vefl'els bound
: to the port of Philadelphia, which may ha»e
been within the Delaware more than ten
days, without performing the regular quar- iV
antine at the place appuiotcd : the Bo3r<]
inform the matters and owners of such vef
j fels, that every t-ftance in which auy per
, foil hai been landed on either fide of the bay 1]
or river Delaware, previous to examination
1 by the refidcntphyfician at the Marine Hos
pital, and certificate by him granted, is a (n
•Jireft violation of health laws, and that Ui
the persons so transgressing, have rendered "~
theVnfelves liable to prof cution.
The Board recommend to the matters of |
veflelt, bound to the port of Philadelphia, j
and liable to quarantine, to proceed imme
-5 diatcly to their Itatfou off the Marine Hos
pital, for regular examination- m(
By order of the boaH of Managers,. a ss
Wm. JO 'ES, President. of
Attest, Timothy Paxson, Clerk. hi
" ~ TKM i'i'. ag
fel
7"he Committee who superintend the ITents on ot
the Banks of Schuylkill; m '
BEoleave to acquaint theiramiable female m<
donors, that their prompt inciuflry and unpa- bei
ralelled liberalityhave been so abnndantlybe- wi
ftlowed , as toenablethemtorequeftnp further K
marks of rtieir benevolence in the article of
Infant and SmalLChildrens Cloathing : any
is more Donations will be thankfully received,
*> so as to provide for the ages of from four to
twelve years.
,1 They cannot find language energetic bit
£ enough to thank them; but when they al
c are iufotmed that they have put it in the M
power of the Committee to, tlothe the
' e l naketl, favt the shivering child from perifh
c ing, and to fend the infant warm, and the '
), mother happy their owa benevolent 0 f
e and feeling hearts will afford them the belt
r of gratifications. ' yi
By order of the committee, th
PETER MIERCKEN, Chairman. to
Tents, 03. 24, 1798. w<
_ ed
■Relief of the Poor.
THE undermentioned persons are ap- M
e pointed by concurrent of the (
s, boards of managers of the Marine and City
* Hospitals and guardians of the poor for the
' purpose of relieving such of their fellow ci- ir
tizeas whose situations render it improper th
for them to remove to the encampments.
s John Kehr, Peter Barker,
e Peter Mirrckcn, J°^ n Hutchinfon, *
n Alexander Steel, IV-ilJiam Steven/on, (ll
Thomas AH'tbone, John James, 1 0
Edward Garrigues, Thomas Savery, b»
Stephen Maxfield, Rhea King,
Nathan A Smith, Paschal Holli■ gfwdrth hi
Is Daniel Doughty, John Teas,
By order ef the board of Managers of
, the Mantie and City Htfpital. c ,j
Wm. JONES, President. to
Attefl, th
t Timothy Paxfon, Clerk. h;
By order of the board of Guardians 6f al
r thepo r.
e PETER MIERCKEN, Preftdmt,
e «<
d THE committee appointed by the above cl
resolution f»r the relief of such persons, N
whose situations render it imprafticable to n
remove their families to the tent#, being rea ei
dy to enter upon the important duties of (
r- their appointment ; inform the public that n
they will meet on the 2d, 4th arid 6th days tt
c> of each week, from 3 to 6 o'clock, at the g
d Senate Chamber in the St3te house, where
is the indigent «f the above class will be re-
lieved, upon producing certificates from one tc
or more rcfpeftable inhabitants who conti- £
f *. nuetorefi'e in the city or suburbs, that n
their families are in such a situation as to p
render it improper to remove them to the a
fe T*e committee being sensible that no en
:d deavours will be lacki-g in the committees
ut who superintend the enoampments, to make w
the temporary residence ps the poor as in- t ]
habitants who removed to them as comforta- b
ble as pnffible 5 and believing that the re
moval of them from the city, may, "under
Providence, be the means of Hopping the ™
"J prevailing disorder ; are defnous as much as
h c poflible to encourage it i and therefore most
earnestly request their fellow citizens to re
commend none to them, but such families,
who from sickness or other important con- a
O fiderarions, are improper objefts to receive e:
he the publ c benevolence at the encampment*, f<
Ed. GARRIGUES, Prehdent.
re Peter Barker, Secretary• "
Philadelphia, 9th mo. 19th, 98. w
be ' h
lie 1 New Encampment. t
id XHE Committee who sup rintend the *
encampment at Mailer's 1 lace near the Mill t
Pond, on the Germantown road, ahout two p
miles from the city, refpcflfully inform their t
country friends that they (land in need of an 11
ry immediate supply of vegetables and ttraw,
w- for the use of those diftrefTed citizens who £
id- are flying from the present calamity. The v
committee flatter themselves that the fame t
:lt * liberality will be found in tSe farmer, and o- t
11, thers, to fuppiy this encampment, as has 1
100 been to that on the Commons near Schuyl— 1
00 kill, both having the fame landable objeft '
in view. ,
1 John Imktep 1 i
Jon. Ratefmi > Committee.
f u _ Isaac IV. Morris J
the Camp, Mailer's Place,
kd Se|tember 10, '9B.
, of
Printing Work,
om 1
Of Every Kind,
EXECUTED AT THE SHORTEST
NOTICE,
At the Office of the Gazette of the
UNiTtD States,
T OA. IJ. &tf>
POST OFFICII,
PhUadilphiu, tgth 03ofer, I"}ss. , (l '
LETTERS for theßritilh Pack-1
(foe Falmouth) will be received ! "
this office until Tuesday the 6th | u
ovember, at 6 o'clock, P. M. J•<
N. B.—Tbe inland postage to j"
r ew-Tork must be paid at this office.
Mr. LENIZ.
Teacher of tbe Piano Forte,
) ESPiiCTFULLY offers hi, ftrvices to at- i ■'
V.tcnd his kholar« and others at Gcrmautown >
■!hould as many as' Twelve req"eit his attend
ee he iViIJ wat on tliem.tjnmecliitely.—Pieafe
diredl to the Printer ot the Gazette of the
nitad-Starti.
v\ icK«Osroßtß 15,179 a.
, . Pr
IN confeq'ience of a piece which appeared .
n The G.izette of the United States," of the
ft Aupnil lift, headed Eajtirn i'bare "lagna-,
mitjf, I have to rtijutfl you will be !'o ohliging
to give this letter and the following docu- (
ents, (which c/mtuin a triu ilatement of the
fair) a place in youc the diliontiimance
which, has hithtito prevented me fe»>m pub-
hing- ..." It!
A report is in circulation that there was an j
;reement between Lieutenant Knight ami my-
If,'(previous to our lite affair J that whichever
us came into a house la(l, was to leave it im- (ai
ediately uoon beii>g informed that the
as there. 1 positively assert that no I'uch agree ''
eat ever exilled; and that no words ever pjfftd
tween us on the fubjeil. Your compliance
ill be considered as a peculiarviavcr by a ' {
Your obedient fervartt,
rAJtfES P. HEATH. " a
Mr. J. IV. FENNG. "
EASTIRN SHORE, MARYLAND.
M A GJN A NIMITT! en
A striking instance of this quality was exhi- j n
ted by Lieutenant Knight, of the artillery, in thi
late reneonire between this young officer and tin
Ir. James P. Heath. he
As, in.cases of this kind, both parties have th;
ieir friends, and, witji a portion of the world, W (
e"equally obi>oxious tocenfure, whatever may ur)
: the cause of quarrel; th; immediate occasion an
' this is purpolclj omitted.
They took their stand, by agreement, at so ari
trc!s apart, and were to advance and fire as 0 n
ev thdtijjht proper; each had a brace of pis-
Is—iftl efe .vere exhausted without effect they tei
ere to resume their and with re-load- tci
1 p.ftols to advince &c. as before, until they co
'ok ejfetl.
Two propofds were made on the ground, by
Ir. Knight's friend :
ift. That ihe difeharge of a brace of pistols,
l e3eh of the parties with or without effetf,
ou!d terminate the affair. This was r«jedfed
adly. That, if either ftiould be wounded, ar.d
n tfce opinions of the surgeons, dangerously,
e thing ihould eeale. This was also dilTented
on.
Mr. Knight's friend knfiwing tbat he had 2>
evioufly deiermincd to give quarier, in c;>fe M
• had Mr. Heath ia his power, thought it his ' I I
jty to inform him that no quarter would be al- thi
wed bini —this was at the moment before they lil '
igan to advance. X®
Mr. Kuight's second (h,ot firuck Mr. Heath't ln
ip, and brought him to the ground. Mr. K.'» j"
iend reminded him of the advantage, and, at fa ,
i-fame time, of the didlates of humanity. Mr.
knight immctiiately replied te his friend, and.
blerved to Mr. Heath, " that he did not v. ifh jk
> take his lite," and expressed a hope " that of
le wound might not ptove fatal." We are rt
appy to add, that the ball has been extracted,
nd Mr. Heath in a fair way to recover.
N. B. Mr. Heath was the challenger.
As the above account of th« affair, taken from n ,
; The Gazette of the United States," contains a i>
harge of a very sanguinary complexion, agaiatt,
dr. Heath, and for which the following state- w
uent (not imagining it possible thatfuch an ac- w
ufation could ever be exhibited ) has nflt pro j'
ided refutation to deprive it of the intiu- jj
nee which it is evidently intended to have. I (
iO m positively aver, that it is utterly without
ruth, that no intimation of the kind was ever "
;iven hy me, either to Mr. Knight or his friend.
It was not blood but honour that afiuated Mr. ki
ieath, and so far from its being his intention v<
o deprive Mr. Knight of life, (had fortune P 1
ilacod it in his option) the verycontr ry was "■
lis fixed determination; he had fully lefolved '
let to take advantage of hit fortune, at the ex- j 3
tence of his humanity. Had he fired his pistols j,
t the diftinte of fourteen 'or eighteen yjrds, he
ould not have charged bis humanity wi'h ihe Ui
onfequence, had it by chance proved fatal to «
lis antagonist. I hope thejudgmenl oi men is f>
lot yet so depraved, but that candour and truth cl
till, without any difliculty, be able to tftabliOi
hemfelve3 in the impartial mind, againlt any
iare assertion of their opponents.
Under this convidlioh that this hope
out.ded, I freely submit to unpr*judiced judg- a!
nent, the fallowing documents, and with them n
he entire juftification of my rrier.d. u
GEORGE L. GRAY. b
ai
Statement t,f Falls. ?,
Eor the better underltandmg of the parties, ■'
nd all others interested, we have thought it 11
xpedient to certify the following ftatemcnt of "
ii\t t within our knowledge, refpe>fling the late "
ffair between Mr. James Paul Heath and Lieu- ''
enant John Knight: (l
On the morning of Sunday rhe sth Jinl}. (as
ve underfland from'fufficicnt testimony) an un
lappy misunderstanding having taken placf be- n
ween the two gentlemen above mentioned, in'
Wr- Hodgfon's tavern, which producing a blow* y
vith a cane or walking fiick, from the latter on '
he person of the former, followed on his 1
>art with a challenge to a decision, by cne of J
he uliial methods of duel j this challenge was
lelivered to Lieutenant Knight on the fame J'
morning, by the undersigned George L. Gray,
as the friend of Mr. Heath, and verbally accept- ,
:d by Lieutenant Knight, from circumstances «
uncaiculated upon, which occurred with both 1
both parties, the meeting was postponed till 3a- 1
turday morning the nth intt. when thty met, '
by appointment of Mr. Knight, at the head of
Chester, (Bridge-town) where the following '
were agreed to at the terras of meeting :
" Robert Bnchannan, junr. arid George L.
" Gray, the friends of Mr. Ji'hti Knight and
" Mr. Jamet P. Heath, eutrulted by those gen
" tlenien with the arrangeineot of the manner
" of deciding a meeting, in confequenfe of a
«< challenge from the latter to the former gin
<• tleman, agree that the meeting lhall be had
" at the neatest limits and within ihe State, of
<* Delaware; that the parties lhall take their
" stations at the diftanre of twenty yards apart,
" and advance by word, to such distance as they
" may think proper, and fire at what time and
" in what manner they may judge crnvenient,
" either from the rell of the left hand or other
" wife; that in cafe both the pistols of each
" party are discharged without effeft, and no
" iccomir.cdation takes plate, they, Mr.lyrigl t
i' i3i<J Mi . ii.-jth, flu'i rJit.ne thtir original of
■' tlie j>i;l jij hjing again loaded and tup
',jju; into their luridS, they iball advance by C ?P
j " word, and fire, a. before, aL their own proper
' " option; and so oil in every I'uch r.eceflity tor *
I " re loading. Neither of the panics to carry voi
i anf o.her weapon than one pair of piftoU. c6n
j " No friend to either to come within one half muj
j'< rntle of the fleld, tbe seconds and surgeons chr
| **. (Dr. Anderfon and Dr. Brown) excepted. cai
I Bridge-town, August ir, I 79»- 'V.
Signed »"
« ROBERT BUCHANNAN, Junr. b [
« GEORGE L. GRAY. ™
I " It is tmderftood that the gentlemen's right thc
j a or Jcft hand (hall nofbe retted by a Jundkcr- ha ,
44 thief or any other fuppoi ter. ful
<{ R. B. Junr, ere
•' G. L. G." ed
- bui
Agre«*bMto the foregoing arrangement, the
«vet within the Delaware line, and took uj '
the r ftatiojis on the ground at twelve'o'clock.
. Preyio»3 to % their permiflion to flfe, the under- 110
tjgn«d R. Buchannan, junr. proposed that arter pia
an exchange of (hots, the seconds (houid inter- no
fere, which was rejefled- He next pro[x;;e«i, 's'
* that in cafe of either of the parties being
wounded, the seconds (fto'ild then interfere, P°
" which proposal was also rejc&'d.
" The ieconcjs naming taken their stations, and nc)
• the wafrd being given, the parries began to ad- "!
▼ ance—Mr. Knight discharged his firft piftoj 0
1 without effeil; Mr. Heath, continuing to ad- 110
" vince, made a feir.t of firing, on which Mr.
Knight discharged his second pifto), at the dil- w j
; t.aace of from twelve to fifteen yards, the ball
fr<nn which iirtick Mr. Ilearh in a lirtf nearly "| fl
I parallel with and a little behind the hip joint, vej
running backward and in its courle wounding
fornp of the principal nerves upon which the
a<slion of the thigh depends; —he £-11, without Kr
having discharged either ofhi* pistols. As soon br<
as he had fallen, the R. B. ran up ho
to him, and feeing Mr. Heath incapable of fur- all
ther refilUnce,,deiired Mr. Kn?ght also to %d- coi
vance ; he then enquired it the affair was at an ha
end, to whi.h the umlerfigned'G. L. G. replied tat
■ in the affirmative, believing from appearance?, mi
1 the wound of his friend to be mortal." HefcK-B.
1 then addrefling himfelf to iMr. Knight, a/ked if ' n
. he had any thing to fay, to which he replied, l * l(
■ that he was fatisfied; and hoped the wound 7°
» would not prove mortal. Mr. Knifjit and fcthe y°
' undersigned K. B. then withdrew from the field, 1 *
' and thus the affhir terminated.
it is with pleasure we teiiify to the fleady
> arid honourable conduit of both the'gentlemen
i on this occaOon: their deportment evinced, thjt
came determined to support their charac- j
r ter as gentlemen and men of spirit! which de- ra
termination was adhered to wi.th firmneii arid y 0
' courage. yo
Given under our hands at Chester-town, t0
thc thirteenth day of Augult, 1795. do
GEORGE L GRAY,
> Second to Mr. J. P. Heath. lei
R BUCHANNAN, Junr. w
Second to Lieutenant J. Knight, yc
I _ of
\ Baltimorei 3 ry? September, 1798.
S,R , ...
In Mr. Feno's Gazette of the united Sates of the
1 21ft instant there is an accoi.nt of the meeting between tc
; Mr. Heath and Mr. Knight, by whom communicated w
s ' I know not, perhaps by some person not Cj much hi
the friend of Mr. Knight, as the enemy of Mr. Heatji; w
j though the fortntr is what he wiihes to bethought, hi
yet militating bdt is a bad way 10 convince a man ot
g irji-r.dlhip for him, e*en ih ujh the miftaiemeot be pt
in his favor, as it is impossible for the fame pc son to
* be insincere and candid at once—if he is wncandid in
favour of his friend at one moment, h„e wiil be so
* agait ft him ataiother, tf it suits his purposes. ca
Without wilhing te» retratt (even were it in my
tl power 10 do fo)f»om the houor or the tixagiuairnitv j
t of Mr. Kuighr, you mult excule ra; if I feel a jealous
e regard .or the honour of my friend; aod when I lee
that honour (although not openly yet in r idioufly from
' an attempt to contrart the conduit of the two gentle-
men) attacked, I acknowledge I teelmvfelt no: a iitr
tie huri, and not less embaraifed to account tor the
motives of the au hor—l hebtatc ,noc todeclateth :
n manner of relasing ihe affair unmanly, inasmuch as it
is to every informed person evidently unjust.
Ik To have ftatfd :hefubjectfairly, a gentleman, who rc
r- would conitder himfelf bound to do equal juflice, j li
would have meiitioued the immediate grouud of chal
, lenge; this however the writer ot tfatement ha* p
0 purposely omiued." -Had this been done Mr. CJ
' Heath would have (toed openly jufttfied for his chal- te
lenge ss he dots for all his condutt, notwithilanding p
writers' aiTertion that Mr. Knight was informed C(
:r i 4 that no quarter would be allowed him." u
i. Upon whose authority this was publi(hcd Ido not y
r, knov/ —I would fondly hope not upon yours, ahhouh jj
n your fauation is made ule of 2f the fansion—Jt is -j
)e pollible you may have told Mr Knight so, but who n
ls ioid;o« is a quettion ; moil certainly / did not and I 0
1 believe your conversations with Heath weie not so f (
particular—YOu might haveconjcftured such to be the
J" cafe, and as a co.nje&ure have givsn it to Mr. Knight, Q
but the writer ot this communication gi\i\s it as a p
tc thing pofitiveiy and decidedlv f > —l Knew the prev:- j
e ous deter initiation of Mr. Hea;h, but the chance to 3
;o which both parties were exposed, pot it out of his t |
is powu to exhibit that determination, and I did uot 5
>Jj choose to blazoo it. L |
( you well know for what rcafon 1 absolutely rejefted t .
' them. They were made in the prefenee of Mr. brown r
in tlliott's tavern at Bridge-town, they were made to
*" mc in the porch of your father's house at Cheiker-town
J" as we'll as *a the field; at each of which times you re- ,
m maiked that >ou supposed '• Mr. Heath only wanted
to convince the world of his courage, which would
be done as fully by (landing the fire of his autogonift, 1
as by fighting till either IhouM fall"—my reply at -i
each time wa>, to the fiift, that " the provocation Mr. ' I
14 Heath received was of a very particular nature, and t
i( not to obliterated by meiely the fire of his r
ic 41 opponent; that .0 long as Mr. Heath's arm bore thc £
of 41 mark of blow from a cane, and he was able to (land
te u 1 coulo never, as his friend, content to advi(e his r
j. 14 quitting the iield, theiujurcd and the in urer on the r
44 fame terms; that if you had no proposal more con-' c
44 eiliatii-g than that, fate muit ((and umpire" and
3S with to the second propria! 1 aniwered, that t
* 4 in cafe of cither party being woui.drd, oircumilon- a
e " 44 ctrs mull govern, but that 1 could come nr.der 110 a
in' l ' previous engagement of that kind"—jou (aid that t
w % you were i 4 u»ged by numan ty to make the prop., fa is j
)n 44 irom your own bread, that on. the part ot Mr.
lis 44 Knight you had nothing to fay"—had these circuin- r
dances been known to Mr. Fenno's au hor, or b'_ing
ag know n had they befcn communicated hy him, the pro
posals would have been clearly undcrUood ; as they
ne now ftaod they afc ooiy partially inieligible.
y* '* Mr. Knight's friend" fays the paragraph after
)t * mentioning the fall of Mr. Heath 4 * reminded him of
cs * 4 the aovantagc, and at the fame time of '.he dictates
th 44 of humanity itc."— Ot what advantage did you rc
ia- mind him?' 44 Thai hate hae conducted his ball so as, *
4i to all appearance to difqualify his antagoniiV lor c
Q f > (i furthci oppiplition"—l grant this a rcry poweiful '
advantage in£?ed! But what were the tenements of
0 humanity ? There were explained, according to your
acceptation, inacoover'atiou betwixtroutfelfand we
,' at ChcHcr-town, and aker that conversation I had
»d hoped to hear no moieof the subjeCt—You theie said
m- that 44 Mr. Knight had a right to re-load and proceed
ier 44 afr<(h ageinft Mr. Ht th" —i his >'cu were soon
f a convinced was a total milconccp ion of the terms of
;Q meeting—Mr. Knight had not a lignt to speak iu that
iac j fuuarion; huthadyr.u, as the fjicnd of Mr. Knight,
infilled upon theUiing b.ing con
reajllefi; that of yonr conlri
have been re- oaded, he had, cn the grcg.ui wnere •
irt ' he tl.en fiooil, to wait thc sue from bo hot Mr.
lc y He2th*s p llois, to difeharge wh eb had it b?en so de
md t rennrd uion, le had a Überty of crafr/trg, as he
:nt, wisnct ableto walk, even tothe b'eaftof M' Kaigb
ier- in ci is fiti.a ion wounded a» he was, his fi'e might
ich have plrced it beyond thc power of Mr. Knight 10 do
no l.im liim further :njury.
_l j Such vretc :hc ter»i o p m-etirg; but indeoe&djnt
) 1
of their iprr-ui'" , you Oifniit to hate 'Known imd-[
(uppnfc did know iirfote y»u Undertook io act in Uut
capacity, thai iter the nlriiei meet, they uvc
rights beyond whit they deiive (rotn the liconds
who are the free and onlv judg't of the prootiety of
toy conduft on the part of the principals s whufj
voice alone (escept in cafe of death) can (ay teifc q,
emtinut, and bv their decision the parties thetofcl vci
muji of neccj/ity be »o»crned—The perfftn givind the
chrllenge, '>ei«g the iiiiuted fiftf, ii he who &to re
ceive fjtisla&ion. it rt(U H theref<we, ma.e immediate,
ly with hit friend to fay wheu that litisfaftio* u o b.
tained—the si (l question asked me by yau, after the
fall of Mr. Heath, wes " Istbeaftairar an end?" «,
which I replied in the aSrmative; and froth that
moraa: K nul be confidejird at an end, no* could
the will of Mr, Knight (pac he pofefled fuco a will)
have continued it a moment longer; 1 jive Mr, knight
full cedit for the humanity whiqh he wauld have e*-
ercifed hid he been placed in a fituat'ioh which
ed it; fimpulAy he might have (hewn and did (hew;
but as thete wis no claim upon,his humanity, he had
nu other opportunity of difplfying it, than by th»
kun.ane vk ifh t hit the wound, " might not piovetnor
tal," and by ilic polite and ready rdinqutlhment of
his room in the tavern, for Mr. Heath'saccdenmoda
ttoa; he obtained a conquest, but that conquest did
place hisantagonid in his power, cohfefiuentty he had
no chance of exerting humanity over his life which
is the meaning of vour words.
1 have been thus particular-<S»n'this labjed, sup.
posing you to have seen in Mr Fenno's paper, the
communication to which 1 a'lude; an* of which
no doubt you have had the fame opinion which t
hava exfrnffid- The author must have "had feme
of the ground work from you, hut I am sure he lias
not done you jufiice in the fuperdrudlure, as he
mud have mifreprefentf-d what you said
As iu tvery tranfa&km, in every corverfetion
with yon, in the progress of this butfnefs, dcfj>ifiai»
guise, and well knowing that the cause of
(riend disclaiming all aid from it, I have beei go
verged by manly openiiefs and candor. I 111 •„.»'} x .
pe.it and coulidcr tnyfelf entitled to b'.treatei ii a
iimilar manner by all the connexions of Mr.
Knight, This publication,by whorr.f ever writtert,
breathes very little of that fpiri' ; I feel a hope,
however, that both you and Mr. Knight will'deay
all concern with the author of it: as you mull be
f»r either of ycu to be thought to
have thrown, or to have countenanced any iwpii.
tacion on the honorable conduct of Mr Heath,
mu? be very little to your advantage.
VVh *n y 'U dated to me that certain reportt vr«re
in circulation to the prejudice ni, Mr. Knight, al
though I had never heard of them from any but
yourfvlf, 1 diJ not for a moment hefiute to give
you full liberty to use my name ill contradicting
them ; I cannot be doubted by ynu 'hat /m.- tiitg;
have bten fuiti of ivir. Heath, which cad-led equally
tor a contradiction on your part; but as I did not
deem myfelf oblijed to take notice of every petty
ebullition of malice, envy or fatfehobd, J did not
call upon you for a similar declaration to thatwhich
1 gave you trulling to your own and libe
rality of fetitiments to do, ui,(elicited, what both
your own mind apd my example mu& have taurht
you was your clu'y—departure from Charles- i
town didnot perotit me to know whether this ws»
done, but 1 have no wi(h to doubt it.
If you have not seen the publication in quiftUjn,
let me acquaint you to procure » [irrufal of it
when you 1 ave read it, and you have, teen that
your lkuation, a« the friend of Mr. Knight, is so
often niatje use of, in terms so confident, as in a
maisncrtb implicate you as at lead the primary so.
thor of what is there dated, you wilt I am fore be
come more anxious than I -am, to discover the wri
! ter,a d when discovered, you ar« the best judge of
wß?t he meririfrom ycu ; from me,be affared, if 1
he is i ver known tome, h« (hall ever he treated
with the. moit pointed contempt as 1 can believe
him entitled to nothing further (rom a gcEtlemao.
You «ill lee aifo that from the nature of the
publication in the Gazette of the United States, it
1 will be. neceffirv that the flatement made by your
-1 felfand me, (liould he printed—l have, therefore,
' to rcqui»d that if you have not signed it, y*u will
call on maj' r Rocdley for that purpose, as ther? is
no time to o« lod —With my compliments to Mr.
. Ktiigft,
I am your »bedient servant,
; GEO : L. GRAY.
Rrbert Bqckanan, jr Esq.")
ChctUr town, j
' O SIR,
' I Received yonrloag epidle of thj 31ft of AUgust;
thro'the bands r'l Cordley, and (liould hive
1 rcturoedyou him, or by the latl paeket,
1 bad rvot a fuddcii telaple into a prior Ipellof fnkncfs,
trudrated my iiucn ion. I have feco, and lead the
4 piece, to wbicb you allude, in Feniio's paper, "and
can justly lay »>ith you, that by whom eommunica*
" ted I know not, nor have I taken any pjJß' to en-
B puire, because I know that the erroneous (tenement
* could be easily conetted by publilimtg the terms on
which the gentlemen (ought. It is very natural sot
1 you to feel ijiteietted in whatever tends to put Mr.
'' Hratb's eondu£t in an un(avoura.ble point of view.
s Hie author ps that Ifatement, whoever he is, I make
0 no doubt, though he was eorreft. and had nodefiga
1 of dilparaging Mr. Heath, by an invidious compart.
0 son. As to the right; which the piece dates, ot Mr.
e Knight's reloading and firing again, it was evident,
'• on relciringto the terms that tbey gave him no fach
a privilege: However, we wercall £f us, 1 think,un
dcr the contiary imprcflion, atthetimeMr. Knight
n approached Mr. Hefth. You a(k, who told me
'* that no quitter w,\s to be givwi. Mo onetold me (o,
>c Sit; but let tne appeal to your candor, to fay, whe
ther or not the rejc£t:ou us the lait propofitton d}d
'> not jullify the conclulion, thai no quarter was intend-
ed, and whether it was not my duty to communicate
a mvconieduves' to Mr. Knight
-0 That Mr. Heath had no *fuch fanguinsry de
,n sign,* lam ready to believe from the posterior
declarations ot yourfelf and Major Bordlry, 1 *
j but how was I to penetrate into Mr. Heath's
t, I'ecret intentions, wlien they wtri so cautioujly,
at and I may add, so prudently concealed ? If
r. Heath had been fortunate, I ant not ililpol'ed to
d doubt, but shit be would have given a Ipecimen
' s of his humanity, llut I liilt coßttrtd, «nd I
" find my opinion corroborated by the concnr
'• rence of others, that the c rcumflances of the
rejetflion of the lift proposition, julttfied me in
~1 cor.chiding that nothing Kis thin Death would
id have been-confidered as an adequate tompenfi
at tion for the insult offered. When you come to
it- a knowledge of the author, you must treat him
10 as you think proper- 11 he has mic-llated from
al defig.i, I (hall condemn him; it !rt»m mistake,
" s his precipitancy »:id not his intention, may tne>
n _ rit censure.
ig With fent:mrnts of refpefl I rem» n,
Your huuible servant,
:y ROBERT BUCHANNAN, Juiir.
" Mr. GEORGB Glt/tY.
of —.—— r -
es * Would any man in hjs senses fuppof* that
the Jecond of my ought |'ff be tuforme, l
qJ of rr.y intentions previous to my f ring ? certainly
r u i " 2- p%
®f
n' • Eight Dollars Rervard.
"d A ROBBERY was committed oik
ed the 17th ioftant, at the houic of the fuS
-011 fjriher in the townlhip of Stiie.Mity by two negro
men —they carried off a quantity of ca!h ; a P"' k "
IJt et book, containing fo.ne valuable paper*; w"r
ing apparel, &c.—One «f the negroes it» middle
1° aaed nun,kuowi4 by the name of lohn White,for
"d merly a refidiut of Phi'ade'.phia, ha", an impedi-
7 C nunt~is htw fp-ech-tl.e other supposed to b«
'' a runaway, aboiut eighteen years o "
£ of middle datute. Whoever fecum the aforefa.d
,v villains to that they may be brought toj'ifticc, (hall
receive eight doltais reward, or four tor either 0.
do thetK taken fepv»tely.
ISAI AH TTiCKEMONEY.
int 3 l.fcury, 10 Mo. T— 3 uliW-
m
important. rJT,
.to frame
By the William and Henry, Captain
" Cuscadefi, arrived at New-York,
on Saturday evening last, in 36
days from Hull. perial m
CONTINUED. a confc
' -fe gut. i.
LON'UON, Sept. IJ. . dentlyr
A hamburg mail arrived this day, and a l rta dy
brines accounts that have excited no little wait so
degree of intcreft ill the City. It ,s con_ Wc 1
firmed that. Bilonaparte did not reach Alex- o n j,part
andria till some days after Admiral Nelson fromSt
had left it. The landing of the French has ; n con j
been cbnfidered by the Porte as an open vio- a
lation of (he peace subsisting between the French
two Powers, and measures have been in con ■ Egypt
sequence adopted by the latter for maintain- the pe;
ing its own canity. Russia joins with the It is f;
Porte oh the present occasion and the let- t he i\
ters from Vienna ffcte, that all the French The I
property in Turkey has l-een confifcated. ft an tin
The moll important intelligence is con. anJ[iet;
tained in a letter from Berlin, of the 4th 111-
ilant, which dates that accounts had reached Wc
Conflantinople of a place n
near Cairo, between a Turktfh force and the Q
Frenc'i troops under -reneral Buonaparte, in .
which tbk latter was d seated with confide-
rable loss—some accounts f y, booo killed y
and 2000 made priloners. . lowini
This intelligence if true, is of the grcatelt (
importance to' Britain ; for there can be lit- g
tie if the French tnould succeed, t j iere
with the loss of even half of the army, in
reaching India by the rout they have taken, muc f,
that' otir pofleffio'is in that quarter wnulJ be um
much endangered.
The accounts that hav- reached us of this
cve.it, do not enable ui to state the particu
lars, or appreciate the degree of credit to ri -' n
which it may be entitled. It is plain, ho- ai ' '
wever, that if the pafTage of the Ifthmiis was
undertaken without theconfe*t ofthe 1 urks, I q uire
they had it io tAeir power to throw innum- l » vc
beiable obllacles in the way of their pro
gress in fach a country. I ,e
The following is a letter upon this fubje& ° r tft
received by Mr. Freelirig at the Poll office, I
from Mr. Harward, the agent for the Pack- J
et, at Cuxhaven :
" Cuxhaven, September 9.
"I have the fatisfaftion to inform you I
from the melt authentic information, that I
the army under General Buonaparte, has I
been attacked by an of Arabs I
who have killed 800© men. and taken 2000 j
prifotlers, I have not the good fortune to I
be able to give furtVer particulars of this J
important event, but hope that the trnth of I
the whole will amply compensate for it," I
" To Mr. Freeling, Poll office."
Mr. Freeling sent a copy of the above to I
Lloyd's coffee houfc, accompanied with the 1
following note :
" Mr. Freeling's compliments I
Bennet and co. fends them an extract of a j
letter received this morning by the Ham- |
burgh Mail, from the Agent of the Pack- I
et at Cuxhaven, which, with every wilh I
for its confirmation, he cannot pledge him 1
felf for the trnth of." I
This Mail also brings the Conclusion of I
the Deputation of the Empire, in atifwer 1
to the French Note of the 22d Auguft,and |
several other interesting- articles which we I ,
subjoin s 1
MILAN, August 21. h K
On the 18th General Brune returned I
from Paris He has had several conferen- I an '
ces with v our Drre&ory, and" it is bow said, J "
that our Conflfiiition will continue t-ffeiiti- I , 1
ally the fame as it was. A courier has ar- nt
rived from Naples, with difpalches of the I I J'
utmoil importance. I 'j 1
In the Roman territory the I
■fcre still in arms .'n several places. I P r
The Nepolitin arny will be augmented I
to 70,000 men ; and all persons capiable of j
bearing arms, from the age of 17 to 50, are te
to be regiHered. I"
Letters from Genoa fay, that I "
have arisen between the Dire&ory ; and' 1
as he fays, opposes a party which is the tn- I
emv of the conftitutioii.
French troops are soon expe&ed to ar- I
rive, which will be at the disposal of the I
Ligurian Directory.
Within thtfe few days there has been a I
report that the Legislative Body will re I
move 'ts fittings to Savona, to withdraw I
itfelf from the rellraint of the military force. I
In short, tliere is every appearance of an I
tßth Frudtidor taking place fhj.tly at I
Genoa.
Au»uft 28. I £
It is confirmed that the English fleet, I c
after having taken in water and frefa pro- j 1
vilions at Syracuse, in the beginning of the I 1
month, failed again in que* of the French I
fleet. The whole of the English fleet was 1 1
not permitted to enter tha harbour, but re- 1 1
mained in the road It has been joined by 1
four English fail ps the line, from Cadiz, |
and the Poftugnefe squadron, so that it now I
consists of 22 (hips of the line.
On thi departure of Buonaparte from I
Malta, 46 French Knights of the Order, I
raollly naval Officers, embarked with him. I
The Pope, who is sick, is frequently vi- I
ftted by the English and Ruffian Envoys.— I
His Secretary has eltablifhed a fpirknal ps- I
sice ia the Carthusian Convent, iu which,
briefs, dispensations, and indulgences, are
made out and granted at a cheaper rate than |
they were formerly at Rome.
BERLIN, &pt.4.
The litelt letters from Couflantinople
stats that the Porte has received official ac
counts of a filial vi&ory obtained over the
trocps of gen. Buonaparte near Cairo, io
which ionic thoufandi of the French were
killed and 2000 made ptifoners.
BASLE, August 29.
The French troops were in full march for
the Grifons, and had advanced as far as
Bzaacht; but it >s now understood that it
his been agree j upot. between the
and Frencii Gwt ' is, that neither sol. stall
march troops into the c»untry, but Icavfc :t
I to frame its ovvn internal regulations.
VIENNA, Ai.su* 29. , . ;
Lall Saturday the Ruffian Field Marffial THUR.
Prince Repnin, kad an audience of his Im-
perial majeliV, and immediately afterwards,
a conference with the min.fter, Baron
a„t. Since his arrival it has been eonft
dently reported, that Ruffian aux.l.ar.es are J*
already arrived on the nver Bog, and only TH
waU for orders to advance. j * '
Wc have receive! a .confirmation of Bu- .ormatic
onaparte having landed at Alexandra, both the opm
' fromSmyrnaand Constantinople. The Porte, warrant!
in conjundion wit), Rnffia, is making the ftorat.or
melt aftive preparations to oppose the n dte c
French with effed i and their landing in zens ma
Eerypt is considered as an ppen violation of. cautions
• the peace existing between the two nations, the hou
: It is said, that all French property within rea.ng
■ the Turkish empire has been confifcated.— plentitu
1 The French honfes at Smyrna and Con- ly the]
ftantinople wait the result with no little In tl
• . cannot
• anxiety.
venerat
: DUBLIN, Sept. 17. e ch;
We have heard tljff conduft'of the Fiench
very much applauded by a certain defcrip- £ at j, er j (
C tion of persons and prints, at this and the .
1 other fide of the water, has represented them
a as having paid in cash for every necessary
with which they were supplied. Ihe sol- 1
~ lowing requisition will, h wever, shew what H
kind of payment they made, and we fancy
j that even amongst their warmest advocates, ,| cm
there could be found very few that, provid- ~
" ed thev Had ar.y thing to lose, would be
'* much pltafed with such a circulating me- t
>e 1 j- •
dium. -pj]
J s CASTLEBAR, 3d Sept. I "t)8
Brenon, commiffipner of ordnance ior the j^ r<
t * French army, to the magiltrates of Castle- 0 f
0 bar, &c- their c
as The commune of Caftlebar are hereby re- that a
S) quired, on pain «f military execution, to (he c ;,
I have brought t« morraw evening, at seven Io
Q . o'clock, to the commissioner or governor of j bre
I th? town, the following articles, for the use p eo pl
.£ los the Frsnch forces : , j Th<
, e j 40 good oxen I merit
I 40 fat sheep , heir
200 bottles of wine, for the use of cr ,
wounded officers j
I jOO ditto for the feldiers IJohn
°. r I looo.bottles of whiskey and brandy Is.
?as I 60 boxes of candles I t " e
!bs I 3° ' Qac^s ha 7 I
I iO barrels of oats I ta t.. r
40 bags of flour the best £ f
, . - The largest quantity of coffee ,
1 of can be fumifhed \ d J {
, I 1600 pounds of sugar of be
I 360 pounds of butter fafet'
. t0 30 flitches of baeen
the 1 80 dozen of eggs I f(
20 dozen of turkeys, pullets, I a g , or
[Trs. gee [ e '? C u e »u ~u of ei
j- a 1 90 yards of the nnelt blue cloth, j nva|
and what taylorscanbe found 1 -
am- 1 ■ • 1 fc £* 1 ion <
, I to make it into dreftea ror
vifh 4l r heo u fficerS . , r who
• I Alto what green cloth, ot e«e- ,
nm I r • - , _ « Ica t
ry delcnption triit en a be j
( I collfded, for.the purpose of
[wer presenting to the brave a.d
, | united natives, who shall join I ,
we 1 the standard of France.l t( , rr
1 This requisition likewise included vap'oas j
I other articles of wearing apparel, such as j
I shoes, boots, liner., &c. I |j v£
irned I trust. that this little sample of liberty
eren- I equality, will fufficiently shew the ad- Ij.
said j v i ,n tages of Fiench alliance and fraternity, j
renti- l or was l^'s —they demanded of the J
1S ar . I little town of Newport and Weftport, one
f the I thousand guinras each, on pain of giving
them up to pillage, At this rate of paying
rer , t / themselves, the French mult find it no un-
b [profitable trade to deal in revolution, where J
■cited I they bring it to a rich market. j
le of { Added to the above very modest and fra
-3 are I ternal requisition, we have been favoured
' I with the names of the munioipality of Caf- j
putes tlebar, nominated by the French General, j
and' Citzen C. Baynes, Mayor.
I Municipal Officers.—Citizeas
Michael Sheridan, ™
0 ar- I J°^ n Hufton,
3 f t [, e I » Boetius Egan. P. P.
James Hitchcock, I
)een a j Redmond Lyons,
IU re I Andrew Edmondfton,
bdraw J aracs Gibbons, t
force. I James Clarke, and | y
of an J ob " Burke " n C
,j y at I September 18.
We hear it is the intention to keep a re- I j,
1 gular force in this city of 6000 men—in I .
1 fleet, I consequence of which there will not be a I
1* pro- 1 necessity for the ysomanry corps doing per- 1
of the 1 manent duty. I i
7rench I The volunteers of Ireland at a former pe- I-j
et was I r '°cl Hood justly high in the annals of their I =
but re- I country, and would ne doubt have defend- j j
ned by j ed'their native land to the last drop of their j
Cadiz, | blood. They had not, however, the ar- j
it now I duoiis oppsrtunity of evincing their zeal in I
1 real a&ion—as their successors the yeoman- I (
e from I ry have had, and thus sealed withtheir blood 1
Order, I their loyalty to the belt of kings and un- j
h him.' I shaken attachment to the belt of couftitu- I
itly vi- I lions-
ir o ys. I Of the action that took place between I
tual ps- I Ci.l. Verckerand the French at Cploony. I
which, I 1 have received particulars which gave me !
ces. ate I much concern to detail. The Limerick j
»te than I militia, Essex fefccibles, and yeomamy corps I
I form Tig the body untler Col. Vereker, have j
j fuffercd fhockingiy. The French left three 1
I surgeons behind to attend the wounded. 1
ntinople 1 In the battle between the king's troops I
icial ac- I and the rebels at Mullingar, the former are I
over the j f«id to have loft two pieces of cannon, and
]airo, in would have bfen utterly dt (troyed, but that
ich were 1 the greater part of their opponents were rea-
I d«rcd unnblc to aft from intoxication, they
I having drank all the whifluy they could
find on obtaining pofftffion of Mullingar ;
nareh for this, happily for the king's troops, ha»iug
as far as been the general pra&ice of the rebels whs
-1 that it never they obtained poffeHon of a town.
pia
PHILADELPHIA, 23 dollar
- ■- of 3 d
THURSDAY EVENING,NOVEMBER '• 23 dollar
from 1
' " field ti
HEALTH OFFICE, by M.
November I, 179®* 41 doll-»i
Fellow Citizens, [? m T
THE period to ardently desired by us Mr. J
all, has at length arrived.—Our bed in- 35 d " lkl
formation and judgment, corroborated by »
the opinion of the Phvficians, we believe, M'"-
warrants Us in announcing to you, the re- c J
ftoration of General Health to our af
fl £ted city and liberties ; and that the citi
zens may return with fafety. if proper pre
cautions are taken, in cleanfinf? and airing
the bouses, bedding, ard cloathing ; cor
recting the exhalations from privies by the Receivec
plentiful use of lime, and working cbpiouf
ly the private as well as public pumps.
In the termination of a painful duty, we 54561b
cannot repress our fentimenta of refpeftftil bjtan
veneration for the unexampled benevolence citizi
and charity which you have difpl-yed.— beini
The fuffering sick, the widow, and the by N
fatherlefs hare been cheriflied, .»nd hundreds Gari
of grateful fell 'w creatures have been wrest- W.
eft from the grasp of difcafe and death by 112 pit
your bounty —These virtues are a certain fevei
pledge that the objefts which you have /afe- Mr.
lv conduced through the temped of dileafe Thirty
will not fce abandoned to the mifeiies of an Bait
intlcment winter. One P'
By order us the board of managers, yarc
Wm. JONES, Prelident. do.
Attest, " ani
TIMOTHY PAXSON. Clerk. men
A.
Drs Currie and Dewees, the physicians Du
'of Mafters's Encampment, have given it as tim
theiropinion, that the citizens abiding in Twtlv
" that alyluro, may return without reserve to per
' the city, an a place.of perfeft fafety from in- Cit
\ fetS'on. In coofeqaence, the Encampment ]
' [is breaking up, and its inhabitants faft^re
£ peopling our lately deserted City. Sot
The following just tribute to Jiftinguifhed ,
I merit, with which these citizens have closed ;
- heir .ojournment, refle&s on them the high- VH7(I
I eft credit :
1 John Inskihp, Jonathan Robeson Yeftt
y Isaac W. Morris, Efqrs. Committee of \
the Camp, Majers's Place. ■ t j n j q ,
I THE fortunate alteration which has ;of A
I taken place in the City of Philadelphia, by j tiniq
I the rapid decrease of the fever, within a few and \
C days pad, gives us, along with the reft of j fnga
our fellaw-citizens, the delightful certainty whei
of being able to return to our homes with pany
fafety ; we cannot defer a moment longer ed b
exprelHng that weight of obligation which B
we feel for the happy afyium that has been
3 ' afforded us, and the comfortable abundance
of every thing neceffsry with which we have
! invariably been supplied during the late sea
? j son of misery !
0r To the benevolent of every description,
whose repeated liberal donations have trfark
ed the true feofibility of their fouls i we re
s turn bur most heartfelt thanks, and for whose j (
j eternal felicity, we (hall continue to offer up
'• I our daily prayers.
)ln In addressing you, gentlemen, general
terms cannot suit our pr«lent feelings:—
,BS When we consider the blessed humanity of !
3S your original design—that of saving the
1 lives of hundreds of your fellow-creatures 1 I {
r j V I the manner in which you bro.ught that- de- I at :
3 " | 'ig n to perfection ; the equal cordiality and tne
'7' J unalterable attention which you have evin- Fri
' 6 J ced for the advantage and comfort of the f ro
most trifling amongst us, and your dill cos- tol
j tinuing with the fame earnestness in the fulfil- frc
1 m'ent of ihofe perplexing duties which you th
U " I voluntarily undertook for our pre fervalion !
lere j our hearts are warmed with the liveliest
j. I gratitude, and, as it (hall be a principal part
' a . jof eur future daily applications to the Al-
J mighty God, to implore of his infinite
* I cv, that our unfortunate city may never more 1
1 experience the scourge of ptftiknee, {<» there
I (hall be an equal portion of our attention !
I and addresses to him, invoking his everlaft
-1 ing bleflings on vou and your poderity.
Signed for and cn behalf of ourselves
and the Xeveral fimrlies and other in
| , dividualsin the Camp, a,t- whose re
quest we sign for them refpeftively.
James Harvey, St, John Harvey, Joseph C
I Harrey, John Dorvill, Thomas Fleming, j
I John Zeller, Anthony Winckler, Willam J p
I Campbell. Adam Cl'iland, John Flaaaghan
I Ham. Walker, Edward Coyl, John Wright
ar f I Alexander Graham, Henry Cathady,
V" 10 I John Courtney, Thomas M'Shain, Danitl j
e 2 I Kuhn, John Sheafer, Anthony Nelson. I
ei j William Hammet, Daniel Dougherty,
I John Jones, Hugh Lefsly, William Loner-
I gan, John Whitney, Edward Matthews,
their I Xhomai H<srd, Wm. Croxford, John Tal
" their I ot * J o^n Wattfon, Thomas Watts.
Ie ar- i
eal in j The citizens of Trenton have addrefled
oman- General Pinckuey, 03 his arrival there,
blood I
'iftitu I Our lately exiled fellow-citizens, are re-
I turning 111 crowds ; and the Roads in the
■tweeu I v 'cinity of the city, on every quarter, pre
ween I afpeft refetnbling the rear of a rt
itt me treatin S army
merick J
yr corps I What an effeft the imagination has upon ]
r, have I the body 1 How many persons become ill
Ft three S from only thinking that they are so ? Mo
ded. I liere died merely as he was afting the Ma
troops I lade Imaginaire in his own comedy. This
mcr are ! gave rife to the following verfe6—
an, and The Gallic Rofciu»' conf«ra(ed dust,
)Ut that MoTitie'i rcirains to thi, fad iirn wejiuft.
Motieie. whose matchlefa mimic pow'ri of face
ere rea- Pi a y'd with each p»oion of the human uce,
n, they Though life, though mannen own'dhis matchlefj
f could fw»y,
Hintrar • Y« de«ih rtlui'd 1 r'vil toobey,
, " . ' For a& prcfumptuoufly lie dar'd to feign
having Tbe honor, of the giifly tyrant's leign
els wll«- Vcx'd a tin magic ot his fcenieau,
own. - lhe indignmt monarch tea!i*'d rtie part.
DONATIONS, | r^ nder
Receive' at the Encampment a: Male's IP' inuw,
place, for the use of the poor. • the invitn
F oaober ?o. ; • fl - a,tc :
23 dollars from Capt. Merediths company lh
of 3d regiment mihtia, Chcftcr .county. ''2_-
23 dollars 38 cents, and . 3 bufia-k potatoes j
from sundry inhabitants of Lower Meek I- I" ' &
field township, Buck's eountv, collefted
by Mr. Daniel Stiliwcll.
4.1 dollars 53 cents, and 6 bufliels rye meal,
from the inhabitants of fame place by [ °
Mr. John Stapler. . . '
35 dollars 46 cents, collefkd by vl ' tu^
a Charily Sermon, preached by the Rev. Na
Mr. Ten nam, at Frankford, aad forward-
ed by Mr. Frederick Caftcr. Chi ilt 1
John In/keep 1 Con . St Pet
Joia. fi ohe fi n ' . f ,mittet First f
Isaac W. Morru. J Second
t Third
DONATIONS, ; Scots 1
Received at the Tent' near Schuylkill, for the
use of the Poor. Trinit
oa.btr 3 0. .
54561b5. fat beef from several of the inna- rge q
bitants of Germantown, and a few of the Swede
citizens of Philadelphia resident there Oern>.
being an additional Donation collected Germ;
by Mr. Charles Mack:net and Abraham £ lorai
Gartigues, and forwarded .l y Mr. Caspar
W. H lines. _ Unive
; 112 pieces new made children'* cloaths trom j ews '
i several ladies at Abington, forwarded by City I
Mr. Cafpai- W. Haines. Kenfi
Thirty dollars from Mr. Solomon Etting of Coate
1 Baltimore-
One piece of Mufiin 18 yards, 1 do. do- 8 .
yards, I do. India Caltico 14 yards, 1 do.
do. do. 5 yards, I remnant do; I piece J *
flannel, 12 yards and 55 pieces new wo- tI AV
men and children's cloaths, from Mrs. J. th
A. Buchanan, M ra * Wm. Tavlpr, Mils " ra i
8 Dugan, Miss Etting and Mifs|Kentdy of
s timore. most
n Twelve bundles of children's cjoaths from a from tb
0 person, name unknown, forwarded to the d on> Li
1- City Hall by Mr. John Donaldfon • Theii
it By order of the committee,' tver y °
:- PETER MIERCKEN, s e |
Southwark, Od. 31. Chairman. >j, b
:d ...... hi.. consign
t ©ajettc sparine Hilt.
1 Norfolk, October 25' ' H ,'
f Yesterday arrived the fehooner | ChOl(
°' j capt. Croel, 24 days from S Pierre'*, Mar" !
j tinique. Capt. C. was capturedoa the2sth [Per
as of August, on his outward passage to Mar- j (
by tinique, by the French privateer La Lout, Qf va
;w and next day retaken by the Pearl English
of frigate, and sent into Martinique, from 2QQ
ity r whence he failed on the Ift Inft. in com
!th ; pany with the under-named vessels, convoy. |
rer ed by a Britifit (loop of war. j
ich Brig Atalaate, Chapman, for Philadel.
;en . Dispatch, Rinfon, Baltimore,
lce Olive, Studley, Portsmouth, N. H.
j Ve Joseph, Ogflley, Portland; AC<
■ ea . Ceres, Dogt-it, Boston,
Betsey, Gi ipin, do.
on, Sarah, Whitthoufe, Newburyport,
r kl , Whiting, Darby, Bf
re . Hannah, , Kecnebek, M
lo se Pailas, Manel, do. ,
up Scfeconer Intrepid, Wilklnfon, Norfolk,
Hannah, Stanwood, Glouctfter,
e]ra l Betsey, Rides, Plymouth,
.. Lively, Rogers, Boston, ' th# (
of Sloop Charlotte, Smith, Middletown. j
the
res j | Capt. Black, of the (hip Argu<\ arrived .
. de- i at New-York in 26 days rrona Bourdaux, |
and mentions; that 'Jie (hip St. I amony of
;vin- Frederickfburg, was captured on her pallage
' the from this port to Liverpool, loaded with '1
con- tobacco, fiigar, Sec. by theVehgeanct priva
'nlfil- from Bourd aux—She was re-captured by J
you the Phaeton, Bi itifh frigate. \ j
ion !
elieft CITY HOSPITAL REPORT. 1
P art From 3 1 ft to Ift November.
A - ADMITTED-NONE.
m«;r- DIED.
more j Samuel Cooper—Samuel Bedford.
th ; re I Remaining in the Hospital 27, of whom
nt ' on J4 are on the recovery,
erlaft- Interred fronj City Hospital 2
City and Liberties 3
■selves
ler in- 8
rfe re- T^e c j ty t-i o fpi ta i j s this Day
Seph clofed
•ming, j The Health Office is removed to the usual
Villam | pl ace) No. 32, Walnut street.
laghan PHILIP S. PHYSICK-
Christopher IJarrah, Steward.
!™ d 7; By order of the Board of Managers.
Damd , WILLIAM JONES, President.
, Attest, Timothy Paxson, Clerk. E
{herty, * _
Loner- The Fever is Gone ! c
Lthews, . i
n Tal- NO NEW CASES havfe occur-.
red for the lafl 24 hours.
We most heartily congratulate
idrefled Qur Riders and the Public, upon
re ' this state of things, so long anx
iously looked for.
are re- . .—-
J" pre- COLLECTOR'S OFFICE,
)f a rt- Augua 3®, 179S
THE bufinef« of the Custom House will from
t»i» «!ay be tranfafled at Chester, during the con
tiruaneeof the fever which Cow prevails irithn
tas upon city ; and in canfetju.'nee tfie merchants
•ome ill are her.by not,fieri, -.hat paymtnt of all bonds tor
u , Mo . duties to the United At tcs, payable at this office,
• w may Ve made either at the C«tlom House .n Chef
the Ma- of #{ the Ba „ );; ot t j lc UnitedStatei.
1 his Colleitor'i Office, • f
Philadelphia, Aug. jo.j
'office AIX PERSONS having any legal Jemards a^
3CC, J\ Ihe eflat- of William Pcrkivi, del. M,
> matches late ofi,h« city of'PhilSOTfHa, Tavern kec; er, are
resumed to fwrnifc tlxir accounts properly au
theniicated, and all persons indebted to said eflate
1 arc rtquefled to maU payment to t'r.e fuofcnb.r in
Philadelphia. „ .
LEVI HOLI.IN ii'A OR i H Adminr.
E " OAobcr 3iik, I?y8.
M ' I
Vndcr ibe aufpiccs of a cftnficLiabiv fail
of Stow, (that tiavv wcifvm.c i.ra -;ur) 4
the inviting reports « f this day's-0
we flatter aurftlves with the prpfprCl vt v ;
Biding the immediate return of our IcJUav
ci"Vens tr»their homes. ■-* •, - ...... . -
■ ' <*■«-■ i ■MBiai aju
/J;/ alt the Burials in the fever.l Ore*'
Yards of the Ciiy and l.il*r'i:s cf i > :::ia
delphia, as taken from the tools Hep! tf
Clergymen, Sixtor.s, tyc.
[Collected for the Ga7.fttf of tlie "vn-u
Statfs, by ROBERT I'AXTON.]
Names of the Burial Grounds. _=
Chiill Church - - 1 **" '
St Peter's .... jo'
St. Pauls - • - - - O
First Prelbyterian - - 1 • ''
Second Prclbyterun - - c .
Third Frefbyte'ian - '. J
Scots Presbyterian - - - °
Associate Church - oi ®
St. Gary's Church - - * »' u
Trinity Church » °! 0
Friends' - - - - - i °
Free Quakers' - - - c °
SwedtV ..... o J
German Lutheran ... e a
German Reformed Prefbyteriau i t
Moravians' • •» - - c «
Baptists' - - - - o u
Mclliodtfts' .... c «
Univerfaliits' - • - o: 9
Jews' ..... o Q
City Hofpiral ... • • <j o
Kensington • • - of
Coates's t> o
I Tvial for the last 24 hours 19' 1
; JAMES & RICHARD SMITH,"
j TT AVE this day nt'Jrned from the country to
jTi their SiOS-E, No. <4. South Front ftnet,
3 where they hsvc for sale, as u(ual,a large and g*i
r neral assortment of European and Eaft-jjcdi*
' DRY GOODS,
most ot *#hi:H have now arrived and art landing,
a from the different ViC'A, from Hamburgh, Lofi- ,
e don, Liverpool and Hull.
Their Cuilomcrs by applying will find aim oft
tvefy article genera ly imported,, and at «» Idw
prices tor cash or credit,as thiey fan be had elfe
vJhere.
N, B A few Cases of Nurcnbcrgh TOYS, a
eonfignment, to it f. 11 by th# cafe only.
Philadelphia, Nov. 1., 1798 dtf
The Subscribers
-j I HAVE JUST RICHV-'D A ' INVOICE OF
a i'ChoiceChefhire Double Gloucester
r*i CHEESE,
tl» £Per the Chesapeaicf fr >m Liverpml.]
ir- 100 Boxes ©f Window vJlafs,
111 Of various sizes, per ;h> Jane, from don.
They have also for Sale,
im 200 Casks of 'lenned Salt-Petre,
m " A*DA QUANTI~Y OF
'?*! Fine Castor Oil.
, . | James C. & Samuel IV ' 'i/lir.
C ' November 1 t
H. J A IAICA RL
A Cargo now binding at Southfirtct ...rf,
FOR SALE BY
FE TkK SLIGHT,
t Apply at Stores on the 'Wharf,
WHO ALSO OFfURS KIA SAI»,
BRANDY, ill and 4th p.-00l
Madeira and Port WINES, &c. &c.
I Nov. 1. * dtf
Forty Dollars Reward.
LOST, on the road from Mount Holly to Phi*
ladclphia, on Monday 19th October, 1798,
1 th« following. NOTES, payable to the fubfcri'ier t
it- , Dolli. £t».
| Elijabeth Norman, of Juns 19
■ived 1706, at 6 months, for 333 33
aux Do, fame date,at 11 morrtis, 333 33
r: Do. do 18 months, 333 33
y Jacob Norman, September 30
(sage |
1795, at 60 day«, $» 60
with Thomas Potts, Sept. 16, 1796,
iriva- 1 at 60 days 900
j 1 Ifafcph Doane, August 17,1796,
'I at 6 months 440 60
V ' Do. fame date, I* month* 440 60
I Do do. t8 months 440 60
1 | M'Kean & Van Emburgh's note,
elated November 9,1796, at 60
r * days - - - HSO
D». Nov 16, 1796, at 63 days 117J
Nathan Field, Nov. 4, 1796. at
60 days - - 850
whom John Negu.,December j, 1796, at
6o days - - 005 89
Jose; h Norman, April a(i, 1797, at
2 60 days - 34°
<5 D*vid gcull, July 18, 1797. at 60
days - - - 98
g Jobn Perry, January 1, 1798, at 6
months - - 3 bo JO
iJfty Do do. II months 37X
Berjamin F. Garrigues, Februcry
It, 1798, at one year . 600
r usual Do. do. 2 years 600
Do do. 3 years 600
Do. do. 4 years 600
Wilson and cu. note, May 8, 1798,
ard. at 30 days • - 100
. r g. Row and Simmoas, June IJ, 1/98
ricnt at da > s * ' -535
Two Lottery tickets indorsed on the l)'ck
R. Taylor and John Clark.
There are forne other Notes, Draughts &-Order«
ofnoufebutto thefubferiber—Any peifon find,
ing tlie fame and returning them to Mr Alexan
iCCUr- , dcr shiras in Mount-Holly, or te the fubferiber,
No. 55, North Water ftreec, Philadelphia, (ball re
ceive the above reward and no questions asked.
tulate Payment being ftoppei', they can be of no ufo
~rv«n ' but to the owner.
upon JOHN CJ.ARK.
; anx- Nov. 1. dtf
Lalt Notice to the Creditors and"
Debtors of John Shields.
-THE firiure retjuelted to render their Ac-
X counts agauilt him, made up to the 13d
day of August, 1797, the date of his Affign
will from me ' ntj thit # p; v ,i cn j roa y be promptly made,
; tbe con- la jj t0 pa y c ,gr tbeir Accounti, Notes, and
Is in this y orl ds, before the firft day of December ensuing,
nerchants Any th4t refra ; n unfiled jfter that period, will
h":office', br P ut in, ° tbe bands ° f an Attorney at La *'
:in Chef, lor recover),. DAV ID M. SHIELDS,
Attorney, (in tail) to the
Affi>;nees and Trulleet of
J. Shields.
- Chefnut street, No, %i- , f
lemands a- *o-vember x, 179 8 '
tee;*fare ~ The Subscriber's Office
cperly au- Beine REMOVBI> from the COUNTRY,
fjid ellate ; s now OPEN at tile ySUAL PLACE, No.
bfcnbsr in 6 NeKTH Fourth Stri er.
5 SAMUEL CALPWE/i,
!\dminr. November 1.t
PROPOSALS,
BY THI
Injur ante Company qf North A merira.
For !k>u«,«c« again!i Firi, An Dwelling-
Hoi.fes, Wire-Hcufes, and other Buildings (anc
on Gnod- contained in such Buildings) diftantfrom
Philadelphia, in the United States.
T Comnwn Tufurancei, on hazards of the firft
class, will be undertaken at a premium of ahout
hall per crnt. per annum. For extra Jvzardous
rifques a premium will b" required, which
will vary according to circuTi (lances, feidom ex
ceeding one per cent, per annum ; but in fo*ne iu
ftances, "/here the property insured is not only in
ttfcll *• i hazardous, Uut rendered flill /liore so
by the vicinity of extra hazardous buildings and
nccupitions, the premium demanded will be raised
according to drcumflancen.
Houses and Ware-Houses, the walls and parti
tions of whioh are wholly of -one or Vrick, well
Conllructed, so as to b* guarded as well as may be
against fires from within, and tree from extra ha
xardou» buildings and occcupations in their neigh
borhood, will be deemed hazardous of the firft
class, and may be insured te their full value.
Also Goods and Merchandize, not o' an extra
hazardous kind, in calks, hales, or packages, de
pofi'cd in such buildings, to an amount not ex
ceeding 4000 dollars; but if more than thisfnm
is required to be insured in one tenement, an addi"-
tiosal premium will be required, in proportion to
eircumlhnces.
'I. Inlurances will also be made on buildingsand
gooch extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to •h«ri!<]ue. But it is not to arrange these
nnver p'.r-icular heads rr classes, so as to describe
each wichthe necessary accuracy. F.ach caf: miift
t .erefcre !)e decided upon according to the circum
flancesa tending it ; and these circumstances wili,
111 general, appear from the description accompa
nying
Buildirifj partly condruAed of brick or stone,
are preferable to those wholly -wooden. And in
both cases, the f.ile of building, how they are oc
cupied, how they are situated, the n-ighboring
buildings, and how occupied, arc; confederations to
be taken into view. And with refpeit to goods,
their tendency, whether from their nature, 6r
from the manner in which they are exposed { ether
to commence or to increase an accidental fire, aiid
tlioir liability in such fta-e to receive damage by
wet, or by sudden and hasty removal, or to be fto-
I fen in tiftie of confufion and hurry, are all cir
cumftsnces of weight; and the premiums must be
proportioned accordingly.
• lit. The !• llowinj; conditiont are to be under
stood fcy, the parties.
Ifi. The Infnranee is net binding till the stipu
lated premium be paid ; but it (halt be deemed ef
fect ml from the time of such payment and accep
tance thereof whether the policy be immediately
finned or not,"
ad. Influences ntay be renewed at the expira
tion of the term of the policy; without further ex
penfo than the pa.yrr.ent of the premium of the re
newed term, the circumflancescontiHMingthe fame
as they were wnderftood by the fufurcrs at the time
the former insurance was made ; hut the paymuit
of the premium is efiential te such renewal; and
if the party i .fured fuffers any time to elapse after
the expiration of the former insurance, before he |
pays a premium fijr the renewal, he is not insured
during such time; Hor can the insurance be renew
ed en the former policy «ut by computing *he
coram nctunnt of the renewal fromthe expiration
of the former insurance. The fubjeifl of insur
ance m,iy ne'.crthelcf* be open to treaty for a new
insurance.
3d. If ary other insurance be madeon the fame
' proper')' ; it mul be made known at the time of
application, otherviilc the policy made on such ap
plication will be void.
4th Goods held in trust, or on
may be insured as Rich in a ft ps rate ptilicy ; but
thfv are rot re be confidertd 34 insured »thervnfe.
sth. This company will not be liable or accoun
table lor any Icfs or damage Jiccafioixd by anv for
eign invasion, nr by x:y military or usurped fofce
cr by peafon of any civil commotion ; or occasion,
cd by gunpowder, aquafortis or other thing of th-
Jike kind kept in the building, or amongst the pro
perty insured.
/ 6th Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu
rities, Title Deeds, Money, Bank and other pro
miflery Notes, are not included in any infHrance ;
nor are paintings, vedal*., jewels, gems, antique
euriofities, or exceeding the value of tw«n
ty-five dollars each, to be considered as insured une
Jcfs particularly mentioned and by special agree
ro.at.
J.h No infuranee will be made for a ftorter
tei r.i than oi:e year, nor for a lorger term than fe
vtu yeaio. l'erfons chooling to insure. far seven
yiars flia'd b tallowed one year's premium by way
of difeount: One third of a years premium shall
be abated in like manner on an insurance for
three years.
Bth. Loflcs sustained by fire ou property insured,
shall be paid in thirty days after due proof and li
quidation thereof, without dethi&ien.
A defciipnon of the property to be infurod will
be cxpedle I with uach application, to be mad; by ;
a rAafbr carpenter and signed by him, as well as
ny the darner of the building 01 applicant for in
surance, and attested before a Notary or principal
Magidrate, who will certify his knowledge of the
t arties and their credibility.
With respect to Uoufes and other Buildings,
ift. The site and position ; deferibing the
ftreci or road on or near which the building
Hands ; its contiguity to water, and other cir
cumstances relative to the extwguiftiment of fire I
jn caf; of accident ; and particularly whether i
any and what fire companies are eftablifhod, and
engine" provided, in the place or neighbourhood. [ \
;d, The materials of which it is built, wher i |
ther of brick, stone or wood, and what part of ' ]
each, as well as to the outside walls as itifide or ;
partition walls, and their refpedlive height and (
tii'tcknelsj the style of the roof and of what ,
*natet ials ; how fccured by battlements or par
ty walls; what kind of access to the top of the ,
Id-pfc and to the chim.nies ; whether any and
what clecirie rods ; the number and kind of ,
fire places ; and the kind of deposit for afhe«. 1
,d. Ihe Jimenfions of the building and how j
dn ided, and the style in which it is finifhed so ,
as to enable indiffci ent perf®ns to judge in what 1
inauner it »» to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of j
jnjury ; the age and condition of the building, j
and how occupied, whether merely as a dwd- !
ling house, or for any other, and for what pnr- ,
pr 'e ; alfc an estimate of the value of the house '
or building independent of the ground.
<>th. Tne situation withrefpeiil to other build- 1
i.ngj or back buildings, whether adjoining or -
not, comprehending at least one hundrad feet
each way : what kind of building* are within
that diflar.ee, how built, of what materials,and
how occupied or improved, whether as dwel
lings for pdvate families or otherwise ; whe
ther any and «iiat trade or manufactory is car
ried on," and particularly whether there be any
*xtra hazardous articles used, or iifnally depo- j
lited in the house, or within the distance afore
faid, and of wlat kind. ]
JUfpeflirg goods in Houfcs, Warehouses, «tc. ,
x. A peneral description of the building in |
which tr.ey arc kept will be expected, similar in .
ail retpefls, as to the clanger from fire, with that |
required for Icfwrance on the buildings them
i'eives. , •'<
1. A description of the kinds and nature of I
the poe i, whether in casks or other packages, j
or opened ,' and whether t'.ifplayed in whole
p cces or ii; tlfs usual form for retailing. Aud
0
r | ' '•.• !(> it; materially in kin-I. a genera!
I eiirnate of thi» vaf\n-of each kind proposed to
' e inlured ; out ih the I alt particular minute
ness of description i» rot expected*
.V Articles i>i the following kind* are deem
ed <*xtra hazardous, though in various decrees,
in whati ter bui-ding they may he placed, viz.
l!!L pitch, tar, tiirpentiw, rof'n, wax, tallow, oil,
om inflammah.'efpirits, fulphyr, hemp, flax, cotton,
dry geods of an inflammable kind opened.'—
ir ,j Gl.ifs, china ware or porcelain, especially un
)Ut pa- ked ; Locking glafles, jewelery ; and all o- ;
9U4 ther articles mort than commonly inflammable,
or rrore than cemmonly lia'Me to injury by fud
ex. den removal o<- by mMiltures, or particularly
obnoxious t« theft on an alarm of fire,
in Letters pol! paid, diredisd to the Secretary of
■so the Board of Directors, will be duly attended
iad 1 to. An order for Insurance accocnpanied by the
fed means of pa; iug the premium, will be imme
' diately executed on the premium being paid. If I
ti- | tke application contain an enquiry only, it will
ell fc». arJwored.
' ,e Bjr order of the Board,
EBENEZER HAZARD, Sec'ry;
OJJiee of the Insurance Company o/Nortli )
rlt America; Pbilad. Feb. I, 1798. )
tra
ie- Bank of Penn/ylvania,
September'd, 1708.
tT- 'b f Houle at present occupied
' ' » by the Bank of Pennlylvania was enter
ed ori the night of the firft instant, by fomevil
lains, who robbed the institution of sundry
Bank Notes, amongff which wer£ tbe follow-
Efe in /P°ft notes of the Bank of New-Yofk, Vii.
be No 1001 > dated »3deif Auguff, 1798, Bolls
ift iTued in favor of Seabrbg &
m- Van Wyck, for 396 ai
ili, No 1083, dated 25'hof Anguft, 1798,
>a- iiTued in favor of Montgom
ery and Newbold for 1450
ie, No 1006, a 7tli do. do. do. aooo
in 1007, do. do. do. drf. iqqo
ic- 1008, do. do. do. do. 2005
ng 1609, do. do. do. do. aooo
t0 icio, aßth do. do. do. 2000
lon, do. do. do. do. 2000
ioii) 30th do. do. do. 1500
lOI 3> do. do. da, do. iooo
K Also I'm,dry poll notes of the Bank of Penn
-- dated 23d July 1797, iflued in favcr
. ol Gcopge Hughes, for one thousand dollars
each, and fun dry poff notes of said Bank, da
ted • stb of July, 1797, iin favor of Geo.
r _ Hughes, tor five hundred dollars each 2nd in
dorfed by him. 'I he public are hereby caution
ed "gainst receiving the said notes, and 3 re
,{. ward of TIVO THOUSAND DOLLARS is
p. hereby offered for th- discovery and conviction
ly of the villains who perpetrated or are concern
ed in the said robbery, in addition to the reward
a- offered by the Governor of the Commonwealth
x- in his Proclamation of this dav.
» By order of the Board,
« ■ , . . JONATHAN SMlTfl.^cafliier.
Mills, Portage, &c.
TO BS LEASED FOR A TERM OF YEARS,.
le | '
d r be leafed, for a term not Jcfs than three,
r- nor more than seven ypars, a V ALUABLE
,e PROPERTY at the Seneca-Falls, in the county of
n Ondndago, ind data of New-York, on the Banks
•_ of the Seneca-river, two miles weft of the Cayuga
,v ferry, and eleven mileseaft of Gsneva.
This eftabl/jhment conlifls of an excellent grid
ie mill, saw mill, dwelling house, bar», and a port
>f age or carrying place, with between thirty and
lorty acros of land, under good improvument, and
as much more in the vicjnity, a« may be required
t, for future improvement,
tt The grift mill is a handsome, sew and well fin
ifhed building, of 50 by 30 feet, 3 ffories high
i_ ann furr.ifhed with a run of excellent Burr flones
■_ and another of ITopus' flones, of the best quality
. —and the most approved bo«lts, &c. calculated to
v make all the different qualities of flour for expor
. tation or for home consumption : ft is aceeffible by
water from every part of the Cayuga lake an< Se-'
neca-river, as well as from the Seneca-lake—and
1- fromits situation, commands a veryextenfive and
1. encreafing coftom : The dream on which it (lands,
; being the outlet of the Seneca-lake, the mill cau
e nevtr- lie in wart of water ; and as it has been kept
. working during the severest season of the lalt W;n
---e ter, it is not liable to be impeded by froft :
The saw mill is also new, situated on the fame 1
flrcam, now furnifhed with an ample stock of I
r logs, of which a supply may at all times be pro- I
_ cured by lani or water, of the best quality : (
11 The dwelling house is well calculated for the use c
jr of the miller, is new, and fufficiently lat ge : The
J barn is about 40 feet square, and entirely new :
r The portage is 3-4ths of a mil« in length, along
the Seneca-falls—over which were paff-d in the '
, last year,, nearly two hundred boats with their ,
. contents ; this objedl is already produiftiv* of a I
handsome income, which must be increasing and i
1 permanent: j
f Aniung the many advantages of thisfituition,
s must be numbered me fertility of the surrounding a
- country—being the btft improved part of the coun- h
1 ty of Onondaga—the concentration of inter- p
: coarse by land and water, the Geneffee fUteroad
palling through it, as well 29 all water carriage to e
Geneva, and the counties of Ontario and Steuben ; t
> which renders it a most eligible (land for a Store or v
j Tavern—The river and lakes abound in filh and b
. fowl, and the country with deer and other game
; j Besides the mills already ercifled at this plate, it F
r j is calculated for any additional water works that e
j may be found necessary—Fulling mill, balk mill si
I tannery, forges, &c. may be ere&ed at a small cx- si
! pence—lron ore may be brought in boats from the ii
j. , Cayuga lake ; and it is theught to abound in the
1 neighborhood. j,
The stock on hand w : ll be fold to the lessee, and q
the cattle, utenfiW, smith's forge, &c. may be fold
or let the premises.
If apurdiafe fhoufd offer for the whole or an
j undivided part of the premises it will be fold,
j F»r terms of sale or lease, apply to rar. Witi r
i | belmus Mvnbksi, at the Seneca falls, or to the
I fubferiber, at ScheneSady. [
r j STEPHEN N. BAYARD. t(
' I i une *5 liwim p
fj Federal Mills,
' ; A DJOfNING Georgetown, and the City of r;
" ; -si- Wafhingtsn, will be offered at Public Sale, b
on theioth day of next, at the Union b
: Tavein, if not previously fold at Private sale. | ;
Those millsin point of situation for bnfinefsand t
. rw'ural advantages ire generally admitted to be
r equal to any in America. The Merchant Mill is
t a large brick house, eighty feet by fifty, almost »
1 new, in which are erefied four pair of Burr mill- ,
| flones with e'evators, hopperboys and bolting
. cloths, compi tely finiflied and conftrudlcd in such
, a manner that the whole of the mills may manii.
fa«9ure flour at the £w.c time. The country mill
which is ereiled near the other, is entirely new,
a strong lione building, eoataining o»e pair of b
flones, and built iu such a manner that the second ti
pair may be put up with little expence. Thismdl ii
is conveniently finifhed, and calculated to carry on J
' extenfivcly, country work, of which it gets a con
' ftant supply. 3'here is belonging to the said mills
1 J74 acrti of land, the whole of which will be "
fold with the mills.
One third of the purchase money will be requir
ed in Cxty days from the day of sale, and far the
balance a liberal credit will be given. Further 1
, particulars will be made known on the day of sale. '
JOSEPH E. ROUTES, a
Surviving partner of 1
JOSEPH E. RQ'.VLES to 1 Co.
Georgetown, julj 13. *3—3awts
~f o DU'fY oti Carriages. f z
Notice is hereby given,
Ti- -ptAT agreeaoiy to an ail of Congrufs of the w
1 T'nitrd States of America, parted at
iz. the 28th flay of May, 1796, laying uu- r<
ties oncarri%ge« for the conveyance of person*, anil ]j
repealing the former zA% for that piwpofe—Th<;t
there shall he levied, coJle&ed and paid, upon a'l
n _ carri?«res for the convr,yauce of perfeos which
shall bt kept by or for any person, for his of her q
le, ? Wn U^ r or *° * ct outto hire, or for the convey-
/ ef paiiengcrs, the fcYeral duties and rates i'rl-
" lowing, viz. dolls,
y For and upon every coach 15 r
_ upon every chariot ji ?
upon c very post chariot 12 .J
upon every post chaise 11 ;
upon every photon, with or without top 9 11
e " upon every coichee 9 r
} l upon other carriages, having pannel "> 1
*ll work above, with blinds, glaftjs, > 9 c
or curtains j \
u-pon four-wheel carriages, n.mng") 0
frame polls and tops, with ftccl C 6 P
springs j 11
upon four-wheel top carriages, with ") F
wooden or iron springs on jacks j f<
- upon curricles with tops 3 v
upon charfc* with tops 3 r,
upOn chair» with tops 3 f,
upon fuikies with 3 ( »
r . upon other two wheel top carriages 3 ;
[\. «pon two wheel carriages with jj
v or iron springs J 3 „
For and upon all other two wheel carriages i
' upon every four wheeled c
having framed polls a»d lops, i 3
and relling upon wooden spars J
The ColleiSor of the revenue of the firft divifioii P
1 of the firft survey of the diilri«£l of Peunfylvania, n
will attend daily until the 30th day of September ''
next, for the purpose of receiving the duties on '
carriage-s, at Germantown, on the Main street, a s '
little above the sign of the King of Pruflia, of d
which all persons poffefied of such carriages are v
desired to take notice. fc
Notice is also given, ()1
To all retail dealers in wines and foreign distilled C
spirituous liquors, that licenfcs will be granted to
them ; one licence for carrying on the business of P 1
retailing of win sin a lels quantity, or in less tr
>• uantities, than 30 gallons—and one licence for lT
r atrying on the business of retailing fniriwious li*
s quors in less quantities than twenty gallons, at the
1- fame time and at the fame place, by 1 1.
)• JAMES ASH, 01
1 Colle&or of the ift tlivsfion of the ift
i- Survey of of Peunfylvanii. rh
Office of lnfpeAion at Germantown, "> \h
ls 22d August, 1798. j th
n Every denomination of Stamps to be had so
at said ollice. c j <
d C The Stamp Prefsis removed it
h to the Cilice of Infpcclion in Germantown, on the ar
Mail* s reet, a little a6ove the figs of the King of m
Prulna,-»where attendance will be given for the ol
atcommodatiot) of those who wiih any iiiftrttmcnts I cl
llamped, on Tuesdays, Tburfdays and Saturdays. re
ngu-ta iz cc
?. For Sale at Public, Au&ion,
ON THE PREMISES, a ,
E > on Harper and Keith's wharf, in ot
E X Alexandria, on thu «6th day of Ofiober a(
>f next, if not fold at private fate before that timo.
:s One 6f tiirle J-ots is near the end of the wharf,
t- twcHty feet beyond wfyich the water is two fathams
deep, about forty Ttet iiut three fathoms, fifty feet , U
1 oiit the water i - four fathoms, and grows deeper ' T
until it comas to 'he channel, which is about fev- .
li enty feet from the end of the wha;t. ih;>re is ,n
d as much dirt belonging to th: bank as will level ue
d th« wharf, which may v/arit raifin_g abput a loot T
, near the end. There is in this sale an half acre lot ' l3
very fit for a tavern ; it is Well watered, and an ex- 1"
cellent (land for that business. This property will ol
:s be fold for ready money, and altogether or fepar- ex
|r ate, as may best suit the purcliafcr ;it lays on the m
0 lower fide oi Alexandria,.which isno^v*improving fh;
very faft. A sketch of the ground may b; f-en in th
y the hands of the Printer hereof. For terms at jth
- private sale, apyly to Wm Hartshohne, or to I sal
1 the fubferiber, inAlexaudria. j ai
1 JOHN HARPER. ] a ,
> September 1 lawgw , 0
[ Wants Employment, lai
AY OXJNG MAN, whohasfervedaregu
lar apprenticeship (o the mercantile buC
: nel's in this city, wishes to engage in a Cuuuting j?
f house or office, writes a good hand and under
stands accounts, can be well recommended and !"
ftcurity given if required. Enquire at the
- office of this Gazette.
i une ii gawtf
Batkenridge—for iale
IT consists of 910 acres, almoll all of which is
a fine rich Meadow, (the relidence of the late A]
Esrl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which are bounded on the
Ea& by the river Pafaiek. I
, Th r» are on it a number of buildings, forming
afquare of nearly three acres—The dwelling house
ii a very convenient one andja fmalkxpence Would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard consists of 1500 fintbearing engraf
ed Apple frees there i-> on other pirib of fatd
traA near 300 other Appje l'ree^—asajfo a gredt tic
variety of other fruits,particularly Carries of the •
best and Bioft delicious kinds. * in i
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and gr
Forest Tree's, that add to ths beauty and eonveni- t i
ence of the place. Its fituatioo is about 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth: 10 do. th
from Morris-Town, and iz from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To Cave trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre da
incalh, on delivery ol the deed.. Pleal'e to cn- *
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chcfnut treet. Cc
cbwary 1. eodtf
Patent Ploughs, tic
TO be fold for cash by Joseph Salter at; Atfion tin
Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry—Jonathan
Harkcr, Woodbury—and JefTc Evans, Lumber
ten, Those who haveufed them give them the
preferene*. to any other kind, as they require j
Wis team, break the ground better, are kept ir. '
nrder at less expence and are fold at a cheaper
rate —the plan is much Amplified and consists of
but one piece of call iron, with the handles and
beam of wood ; they may belixed with wrought tha
lays and coulters to be put on with screws and "
taken off at plealure. tha
Patent tights for rending with inftru&ions for put
making them may be had by applying to John ran
Newbold, or the fubferiber No. 211 North P< a
Fronl-flreet. or t
Who has for Sale;
Or to Lease. for a term of Hears, ]^j
A number of valuable trafls of Land, well
Etuated fer Mills, Iron Works or Farms, most- P
ly improved, lying chiefly in the county of Hun
tingdon state of Ptnnfylvaqu. Those who may
incline to view them will please to apply to C ','
John Canan esq. near Huntingdon. ' c
Claries Newbold.
J»'y '7 aawtf j e ' t[
To be Let, wr !
w, f
An airy three Story Brick House
ON the South fide of Filbeit Street, betvvem
Eighth and Ninth .Wt, formerly
as the Surveyor General's Office-—Enquire at No.
111, Chefnut Strtet.
aU S"ft « QOy.
AN ACT
Pir tas relief 3 f the Refugees from tbt or 'itifh
pro-Virtus of Canada and No va-Scotia:
c . 7>E it enacted bj the Senate and House
' Jj of lieprefentatives of toe United
a- States of America, in Gangrefs ajjembied, That
u - to fatisfj' the claims of certain perions claiming
lu lands und-r the refolutiens of Congress, of the
" l twensy-third t)f April, one thousand seven hun
'' dred and eighty-three, and the thirteenth of
April, one thousand seven hundred and eighty
cr five, as refugees from theßritifh provinces of
y~ Canada and Nova-Scotia, the Secretary for the
* Department of War, be, and is hereby autho
-3' rized and dire&ed to give notice in o»e or more
of the public papers of each of the States of
Vermont, MafTachufetts, New-Yc. b, New-
Hamplhire and Pemtfylvania, to all persons hav
ing claims under the fjid relo!.utions, to tranl
„ mit to the War-office, within two years after
the pafTmg of this aiS, a jufl and true account
o rf their claims to the bounty of Conjrrels.
Sec. j. And be it further enaHcd, That no
other persons (hallb* entitled to the benefit of the
6 provifious <;f this than those of the follow
ing defcriptiuns; oi- their widows and heirs, viz.
First, those heads of families, and Single per
sons, not members of ar.y such families <* ho
3 were residents in one of the provinces a:ore.<.id,
$ prior to the fourth day of July, one thousand
.1 feve* bundrect and feventy-lix, and who aban
-3 dsned their fcttlements, in confeq'ience of hav
-3 iag given aid to the United Colonies er States,
3 inthe revolutionary War agaisft Great-Brit'.'.in,
or with intention to give such aid, and eor.tinu
-4 ed inthe United States, or in their service, dur
ing the faiJ war, and did not return to vefide in
the dominions of the king of Great-Britain,
m prior to the twenty-fifth of November, one
a tlionfjnd seven hundred and eighty-three. So
;r condly, the widows and heirs of all such per
„ f ils as were aiftual rafidents, as afnrefaid, who
a abandoned their fettjements, as aforefaid, ind
,f died within the United States, or in their fer
:e vice during the said war : and thirdly, all per
sons v» ik> were members of families at the lime
of thtir coming into the United States, and who
j during the war, entered Into their fervict.
0 Sec. 3. And be it further enacted, That the
proiif of the several circnmfiauces neceffjry to
f s entitle the applicants to the benefits of this ad,
ir may be taken before a judge of thefupteme or
diflriifl court of United States, or a judge
e of the supreme «r superior court, or the firlt jus
ticeorfirft Judge of the court of common plsas
or cbantycoirrt of any State,
ft Stee. 4. And it further enaHed, Tkat at
the expiration of fifteen months frpm and after
ike passing of this adt, and frqm time to time
thereafter, it shall be the duty of the Secretary
J for the Department of War, to lay f«:U evi
dence of claims as he may have received, before
j the Secretary and Comptroller of the Trealury,
e and with them, proceed to cximin*
i-1 mony, *Rd give their judgment whit quantity
e of land oujjTit to be allowed to the individual
claimants, ni proportion to the degree of their
i. refpeclive ftrvices, facrifices and fyfferings, in
consequence of their attachment ta the cause of '
the United States; allowing to tjiofe of the firlt
claJ's a quantity no! exceeding one tlKHjIa ml acres
and to the last tlafs, a quantity not exceeding
1 one hundred, making such intermediate clafles ; 1
' as the resolutions aforefaid, and diftrihutive jul
!' ticc, may, in their judgment require, and make
? report thereof, to Congress. And in cafe any
J such slaimant shall have fuflained such lofiu-s and J
■ fufferings, or performed such services for the
United. States, that he cannot juflly be clafled
, in any one general c'hfs, a separate report flul! 1
j be imde of his slreu'aiftancet, together .with the J
t quantity of land that outjht to be allowed him,
t having reference to the foregoing ratio : Pro
. -vidid, that in confi lering wjiat compenfatiaii
I ougjit to be tjiade by virtue of this ai3, a'l grants
- except military grants, which may have been
: made by the United States, or individual Statei,
C shall be confidt red at the jnft value thereof, at '
1 the time the fame were made, refpeiStiv-ely, ei- '
t j ther in whole pr in part, as the cafe may he, a '
' ! iatisfadlion to those who may have received the '
lame : Provided, also, that no claim under thi»
law, shall be aflignable until after report made ■
to Congress, as aforefaid, and until the said
lands be granted to the persons entitled to the
benefit of this ail.
Sec. 5. Beit further erhtcled, That all claims
in virtue of laid resolutions of Congress, which
Ihall not be exhihited as aforefaid, within the
I time by this adt limited, shall forever thereafter
be barred. 1
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives
TH : JEFFERSON, <
Vice-President of the United States,
i and Prejident of the Senate.
. Approved, 7, 1798.
I JOHN ADAMS, ;
Pre/ident of the United States. '
Depofrtcd among the Rolls in the office of the '
Department of State,
Timothy Pickkring, ;
Secretary of State. 3
(d* Pursuant ta the above Aft, No- 1
ticc is hereby- given tojill perfcns hav- ).
ing claims under the resolutions of Con- r
grefs, of t!>e 23d of April, 1783, and [
the 13th of April, 1785, to tranfmitto c
the War-Office within two years after '
the passing of the said Aft, viz. the 7th f
day of April, 1798, a just and true ac- ®
count of their claims to the bounty of v
Congress.
In the proof of Claime, a ftrift atten- t
tion must be pjiid to ths requi fit ions <t)f ?
the 2d.«nd 3d SeiSiions of the A£h tl
JAMES M'HENRY, «
Secretary of IVar.
July 19 jaw6w
AURORA OFFICE, "
OBober 10, 1798.
Reports having been circulated
that 1 HK AURORA was not to be rc-publifhcd, p
—The public are lieieby refpedful!y iaforn)ed
that the want of hands aloat h.'.s prevented its re- °
publication several days ajo; but that such ar- 11
range incuts are now raaku-J as will ailure the &•>- a
pearance of the paper in the courle 6f the prefen't, h
or the firft week of the next month.
i_ t
Mails for South- Carolina iff Georgia, p
T)ACKETSareuow provided for carryiiir; the ri
I , Public! ipailsby u iter between Phila ieh)hia
and Charleftou. j'hev will leave Philadelphia
on Friday's. The post by land will be continu
ed twice a week (jniil an experiment ii made in
regard to t{>e expedition and regularity of the
packets. Jf any person. chufej to have their r "
letters lent by land only, they will please to
write the word Land upon tl.o letters : other- ui
m c L*'" bc fem b >' cor>v eyatKe which «
«« tirftftart after the letters are left in the
Tjjolt-clfice. C(
Joseph Haberfham, j*!
- Pof}-Mafter Gcmcrl.
ri:,ade.t-hU, AtigtJtls, 1798. J
This Day Ptiblijhed\
'J 3 And for file at'the Office of the Editor, fJc.
. 119 Cl.efnut-flrcet,
7 e i (Prjfe i-ith of a Dollar,)
z, AN ORATION,
„ K ProHOunceii July 4,1798,
:be At „ ere! s" ueft ! ,f lhe Inhibitants of the Town «f
in- BOSTON, in moration of the anni
of verfary ot Americart Independence,
ty. By JouAH purser.
of . Tfle inroads upon our public liWerty, call
he reparation —The wrongs we have fuftaised
10- !or Justice. That Reparation and that
)re Ji'fncc, may yet be obtained, by Union, Spirit
of a "" i irmrica. But to divide and conquer was
we n;a *jniot tiieSevil in the garden of Ede#
iv- al / c ' tO . disunite and enslave hath been the princi
nf- P"' iP f =!' h ' li votaries from that period to the
, er prcleut.
jut 04,17 vtM»n 'Jn the Boston Port-Bill, tfc.fi. ni
bf the late J. Quincy, jun.
no J " gtlft T *
£ TREASURY DEPARTMENTS
S- N° TlC r 13 H a EREBY GlV ™? vie-
So J tue of an aA . parted during the profent fcf
id, 9[ A C ° nsr ° fs - f '' m " Cl ' ° f tbe "tituled"
' An A a making,further provision for the fun.
' . " r°" cf P^. !,c J cr l e< !j t ' a "d for th, redemption
' r - "of the public debt '—palled the third' day 8 f
March, ore thousand seven hundred and maW.'
as bars from settlement or allowance '
i", Certificates, commonly called Loan Office and'
iu- final fe-.tlement Certificates, and Indents of In
jr- ferefts, is suspended until the twelfth c!ay a ;
in June, which will be in the year one thousand (every
in, hundred and ninety nin*.
ne That on the liquidation and settlement of the
Je- said Certificates, and Indents of Interest, nt the
:r . Treifury, the Creditors will "be entitled to'receive *
b 0 Certificates of funded ThrcrPer Cent. Stockeuual
nd to the amount of the said Indents, and the arrear
;r. ages of interest due on their said Certificates, prior
r- to the fir!l day of January one thonfsnd Icven
lle hundredand ninety one.
ho ,lie P rinci P a ' fumsof the hid Loan Office
and final fcttlemer.t Certificates, with the interest
thereon, since the firft day ol January, one thnu
to 1I "' ®® Ten hundred and ninety one, willbedif
<-j charged after liquidation at the Treafary, by the
■ > payment of interest and reimbursement of princl
pal, equal to the sums which would have been
Ps payable thereon, if the said Certificates had been
fubferi'ied, pursuant to the AAs making provision
for the dehts of th(jUnitcd States, dur
ing the late War, and by the -payment of other
at sums, cq« Ito the market value of the remaining
er Stock, which would have been created by such
ne fubfefiptions asaloretaid, which market value will
ry be determined by the Ccmptrullcr of theTreafury.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
re Secretary of tbe Treafuryi
Y> )""c *8 lawtf
ly General Poft-Officc,
ial pR6POSALS for carrying the mails of th?
:ir , United States on the following routes will
in be received at this office uatii the 20th day of
0 f September next inclufivc.
-ft 1. l'roHl Pittlburg P. by Cannonfburg, Wafii
s; ujgton, Weft-Liberty, Wheeling and Wills
,g" town to Zanes at the mouth of Licking-creek,
e» on t'' ,e Mulkingutn, ellimated 140 miles,
if. Leave Pittfburg every Friday at 2p. m. arid
se arrive at Xines the next Monday by 8 P.. M.
ly Retuni 'mg— Leave Zanes every Tuesday at 5
v d a. k. a:id arrive at Pittlburg the next Frilavby
1C( 10 A. M,
■ d »• From Zanes, at the mouth of Licking
ill Cl«k on the Miifkingum, by Chilicothe and
ie, Mafley\ to MayfvtHe in Kentucky ; estimated
n> 140 miles
j. Leave Zanes cverv Tuefdiv at a. m. and
ttl arrive at M .yfvdle the next Friday by 10 4. M.
tsj Ketu.-ni-ig—Leave Moyivi;L- every Friday by
;n . 2p. M. a»d aff+ve •; Zanesrire next MoHdiv by
~ BP. M. y '
at ' 'I Le carriage of the mails to commence on the
firfl dav of Nn* ember next and continue until
a, the firft day of Oft ber jBOO. Payments will
le be made quarterly.
i, Ihe nlual penalties for delays and failures will
le he stipulated in the contradf.
id Joftph HabcrJham,
Pcjl-blujler General.
Philadelphia, July 13, rhcSuh*w
•K HEALTH OFFICE.
10
- r „ Philadelphia, lj} May, 1798.
Extract of an a3 to alter and amend the Health
Lawtcf this Commonwealth, palfed 4.b April
1798.
Se.fi. 8- A ''. e furt ''- er enadled by the au
-f tliority aforefaid, 'j hat every house»
keeper within tfe city ef Philadelphia, the towri.
mips of the Northern Liborties and Moyatnsnfißg,
and ditjria of withina mile of the li
mits of the city, takiag in boarders arriving by sea
or by had, from any foreign port or place, and ha
vingacy boarder it. hisor'her family, who shall be
taken fuk oi aay difcafe wlmtfOever, between the
nrft day of May and the firft day or November in
any /f at, wirhin twenty days neit after such boar
itc lhall cone to lodge in his or her house, fliall
j- v. ithin 24 hours next after the knowledge of iuch
_ ficknels. make report at the Health.OfSce of the
name of such sick perfos, the time of his or her ar-
I- rival at the house and of his or her being taken sick
j and of the name and pkee of abode of such houfe
kcep r; whereupon the Phyficiar. of the Health
-0 Olhee lhall forth .vith visit the patient, and report
, r to the office his opinion of the nature of such dil
cafe, that measures may be taken to prevent tl*e
[l (preading of theinfeflion ; asd if any lioufekeeper
lhall nrgledl to give information in tsjc manner and
within the time aforefaid, and (hall be thereof cor,-
viewed, in any court of cnminal jurisdiilion witi.in
this Commonwealth upon indiolnie/.t by Verdi#
or coufeffion, he or Ike shall forieit and pay a fine
- to the use of the said hospital, nnt-irfs than twet-y
,£ dollars, nor' more than one hundred dollars, ta be
imposed at the the court, according to
the c-ircumftancei at greater or lefs aggravation at
tending each Particular qafe.
By order of the Board of Heal'h
WM.ALLEN, Health Officer-,
- of the Port ot Philad-lohia.
C A UTI ON.
1 WT HERE -^ S a certain perfonfwfndled
1 V t from me on lhe firft inft. by giving
d m . c J" liel,thcreofafor ged check on the Bank
_ of North America, anot»of that d»ie, drilwo
, in tnv favour by Mr. John Travis; and piv
able 111 lix months, for three lhaufand four
hundred and fitly and forty-fix
cents. ALL persons are dclired not to re
ceive any transfer «f it, ai it will not be
> P b Y either the drawer or endot fer uolefi
t recovered by law.
a WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Race Street.
6.
lhe i'yblic are hereby informed,
That I did not mean to Col. Wll
iamNichoisto declare, that I would not pay,
un ess recovered by law, my ns>te alluded to in hta
caution ofcrtie 6rhofAugutt, publiOied in thz Ga
zette ot the United States of larf evening. I fia
cereiy Ument his lols, and t<ld him I would de
al> 1 rnnl,.J «io confidently with my credit to serve
him, but went no farther*
yOHX TRAVIS.
august 7 j