■ * m Mify MMSkffe
' , " ~ ' ■ ■, " ' I ; -i. , "SiV.-.f ' *
By John Fenno, N* 11 g Cbefiiut St reft. ■ ' . „ ,'
NUMBEJI 1739. J
For Savannah, O
(To fail on Saturday the "]tb of April)
y'—*- THE SHIf '
V SWIFT PACKET, ,
| G umis, Maler. V
0 A regular eftablifted Packet with to ,
' Sft' elegant accommodations. For cai
freight or pslTage apply L o the Mailer on board at
Rot's wharf, or to w ]
AT. & J. Fraxier,
No. 95-, South Front Street. t j,
Whehnve for sale a quantity of prime new Kice tn
- by scud veffei. a „
march 71 '
FOR sAle;
tg arjJS}Havaonah Sugar "
too Hides p
Will be landed to morrow, at Willingsand Fran- E
(is's wharf, from on board the brig Active, Will
iam William*, maker.
faid Brigforfale,
Ainl may take in imcnedi
ately aftcT discharged.
Apply to
Jehu Htillingf worth & Co,
march 30. §
This Day v/iH be Landed,
.At Morris's wharf, just above the Drawbridge,
from on board the brig Eliza, capt. Vaughaq, J
from Malaga-"-
Fresh Fruits, Wine and Brandy
Lmons in cheils and ha.f ch'--ls C
Raifius ef the Sun in kegs V
Figs in do. 5
Soft fiiefi'd Almonds in fackt
Grapes and OHyes in jars
Bloom and Mufc.»tcl RiUins hi boxes
Anehovi s in kegs
Jordan and Bitter Almonds in boxes
Old Mountain Wine in qr. calks
Brandy in butts, Ac. &c.
For Sale by I
PETER KUHN. t
p. s. - _ »
l The above Brig for sale |
imnifdiately applied lor ; file j
i-; a remarkable fine fall failing
(Tel, having jnade her pafUgc
to an«J from Malaga in littte more than 60 days. u
ma ck 26.
i v Wanted.
FOR RRF.MFN.
The Hamburgh Brig
HVNRItfTA,
Peter P. Schmidt, MaJUr, !
"VVo A' lying at Jerffe and R. W aln's whail—A |
IN flout, strong veffei, of about 170 tons bur ,
then, in gpod ord r ; has two thirds of her cargo ,
ready to.go 00 board, and begins to load to-morrow. ,
For Fr-civht only , apply to ]
PRATT V KINTZING, ,
No. 95, North Watei-ftreet.
Who tarn JUST R FCEIVEV, and FOk SALE,
It bales Tickleburgs and t3in4hrigs
a dp- Pattetborties
j do. bjeached Medians
X .package Oil Cloth
1 chest and 8 barrels Snuff Boxes
30 Liquor Cases
eg anchors psarl Barylc, and
4 cases elegant Carriage Hanwfs, Whips,
Spurs, &c.
tun HAVE FOE SA L
•Claret in cases, Port « ine in pipes, Ruflia Soap
in fmallboxes, Rice, Bri"nfton«. : umblem, M* in
dow Glass, Slates, a cargo of excellent Mahoga
fiy, Heflians, Brown Rolls, Polish Linens, empty
Coffee Bags, &c &c. all entitled to the drawback.
march to. . tntVi.lw
' jW HamhurgK,
T H E SHIP
Dominick Terry,
John Fleming, Mqjler,
partofher cargo en
raged.—For frciffht apply to
* 7# Robert (Vain.
Febraury zf> **
Nicklin ess Griffith,
At their Store on Wtlaut Street Wharf—
HAV« FOR SAL*,
j6 bhds. of Jamaica Rtwn
Madeira Wine in pipes and hhds.
do. in pipes
Old Port do. in hhds.
Imperial Tea in quarter and eighths ef che.ta
Sail Canvass, No. 1, to 8
Dimities, Ginghams, and MoOinets, in packa
ges suitable for the Weft-lndii market
Nail* assorted
Black quart bottles
* Queens ware in hhds. *nd crates
Yellow ochre dry in calks
And at New-Yor-k, on boara the
(hip Diana, from Liverpool, expeded round
as soon as the nayig»ti&« it open,
Fine Liverpool £*lt
Coals
Spanish Brown I
Venetian Red j
Purple Brown i PAINTS
Patent White J
White Lead I
Red Lead J
■Coleothar vitriol
160 bundles Sheathing paper
■Seaming Twine
For Sale or Chatter.
ALSO,
M. fl. Tie late firm ot'l'hilip Nicklin & Co.
ia now uharreed to , „ T r. P ,rnM
NICICLIN «jf GRIFFITH.
_januaryj. »
For Sale or Charter,
j|lSl goodhope
Willcirry about 1100.barrels »nd
a/isready totakein acargo. For terms
wl '" imp* w c„.
No 151. Second-ftrc.-t.
Who have so, file-prime Sr Croix Supr
„d Kum, Madera,
" November 7.
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, APRIL 6, 1798.
On Tuesday, the 10th day of
April next, at 7 o'clock in the evening, at \
the City Tavern, Second Street, in the City
of Philadelphia, „
WILL be exposed ts public file, fc«*fire«fi
tiafts otr parcels of lajid fitjjtted in Paint l,
township in the Couraty and of
containing in the whole fut thousand fevep hun- ft
dred and sixty-sour acres »nd tinec ed
with the wfual allowance for roads.
Terms of sale, j-j of the purchase money on ba
the execution of the deed, i-j in three months, 1
and 1-3 in fix months, ifi good notes or other 1
approved fecaritv. : to
CONNELLY Co. Au3. j R ,
March <l. I»wvt» dtl » j > r '
— ; , n
For Sale, j>«
By Ellistqn & John Perot, j c .
Nf. 4(, North H'fter Street, j *1
London particular Madeira Wipe, in PP rs ifld j *
r calks, 4 years old and fit for immediate use. .
Inferior do- q
A few bales Allibad Cofles
Bandanna Handkerchiefs a
Sail Canvais, No. 1, to $ fj
Juniper Berr:e9 -
A parcel of Soai Leather, and d
A few boxes of China. e
march ;
Imported, j•
In the Brig Benjamin ]F rank li n, frojn ,
Bouideaux, 1
ASP FOR SA L B BY TH( SVBSCRISEK,
Claret in caiks
\>hitt wine in half calks ( j t
Sweet oil of » Superior quality ia boxes andjbafc«ts j
Lunelle "> c
Sauterne ( Wkes in CaJfes. «
Macarty, and f i
Medoc ) j
Thomeu Myrgatrojd, t
No. U, vVa!nut Street. t
WHQ HAS 0N HAND, 1
Bourdffaux Brandy in pipes "J) lntit esl 1
s£%£*.} m - ■" :
j Sherry wine in pipe sand quarter caflts
. Rota
\ Pimento in bajs
' Two trunks of Umbrellas, and ,
AVoiit 4000-birfhels 1 ivsrpool Salt.
march 19 mw&fcf
Valuable Property for Sale.
FOR SALS,
TTIAT well known Estate, c»H«d SHREWS -
1. BURY FARM, formerly the refidenee of
General John Ctdwalader, situate on Ssffafras Ri
ver, in Kent c»unty, Maryland—containing a J
boat 1000 acre* of prime LAND, upwards of SCO
r es which are in woods. The Buildings are all ex
-9 eellent, and eonfift of ahandfome Dwelling
'• two large Barns wish Cow houses, Stables £or fifty
horses, a spacious treading floor under cover-, a
granary, two Ovexfeer's houses, two ran
ges of two story buildings for Negroes (one of
', them new aid of brick), Crtrn hpufes, a Smoak
house , &c. Sec.—The whole Estate being nearly
surrounded by water, it require* but little fencing,
and has a good, Shad and Herring fifheiy. It is
conveniently .fitifiited for both the Philadelphia and
Saltimore'markets, with two landings on a navi
gable rrrqr but a Ihort fall from Baltimore. There
is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
S, the pi emifss; also, airatiety of excellent fruiu of
different kinds., The fpil is mpftlf a rich loom.—
The whole will b» f id together, or divided into
p smaller farms (for which the buildings are convenr
1- iently situated) as may suit the purchaser. The
*- tjtOck on said Form, consisting of Horses, Cattle,
y Sheep, Sic. will alto bt- disposed of. Forfurjhcr
k. particulars apply to Georqe on the
premises, or to the fubferiber, in Plailadelphiaj
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jtjn.
February 24 qawfiw
Jllfcapes,
BROKE the Prison of Cumberland county, in
New-Jersey, and made iheir escape, be.'Aveen
I and 1 o'clock, this mornin , two Men, who
were convificd of ftealiqg—one of them calls him
felf James Legg, the other Edward Hambleton—
— Leggis a grey-headed Man. about usyesrspld, 5
feet 8 inches high, thick set, with a remarkable
large head; Hambleton is about 26 years old, 5
feet, 9 or 10 inches high, black hair. I.eft the
prison in company with the above described
thieves, a Imall man, who calls himfalf Matthew
Morrifon, about 14 years/old. j.leet 6 inches high,
light hair, fair complexion, fmiies when ta king i»
a wheel-wright by trade Whoever will secure
the thieve* in any Gaol in New-J«rfey or Pennsyl
vania, shall b'i entitled to receive fen Dollars tor
3 the old one, Fifteen for the yowng one, and Twen
ty for Matthew Morrifon
GEORGE BURGIN, Sheriff. ,
Bridtj#town, march '5■ 24 —nu&t^w
Law book Store,
No. 319,
id
George Davis,
IMPRESSED .with the favors Oiev.-n-Jiun in his
efforts toeflabliih a Store for tl»e fait of Lav.-
Books only, begs leave to inform the Gentlemen
of the Bar generally throughout the United States,
that in addition to his collection now on hied,
which he fuppofej to be more extensive, than in
the poJTeffion of any one person for sale in Ameri
ca, he expe>9j daily very large supplies from Lon
don & Dublin, particularly ironi the Lutei pltice,
having chiefly confinedhisi:t\portations to these edi
tions, ai being in his opinion tquallv correct with
the London copies, and well known to be infinite
ly lowcf charged.
G. D. limiting himfelf, fol'ely tfi the sale of Law
Books.it will appear obvious to profefßotial gen
! tlemcn the great advantages they havein phfehafing
from him, both as to fe)e<9i<m and price, of which
the encouragement he has received for fevers! yetrs
past, is the befttertimony ho can offer.
rr arch »o. S(tW3W
: °" AT TYSTTT
This Day i» Publilhed, by William
C«».BETf, ,
OPPOSITE CHRIST CHURCH,
7he Danocrtilic Judge,
E&JUjIL LIBERTT of the PRESS,
lf | As exhibited, and expafed, in t(ic
~s prufei-uti'Ki 'if
' WILLIAM COBBETT, '
fOR A UtTPSDtD Mill AC.UKST
The King of Spain and his Emlajfadat,, before
, kT THOMAS. M-KEAN.
Chiel JuPiice of the State»f Penn r ylvania. j
■By P.Ur Porcupine.
FORGERIES.
[ T THERE A feveial-f. nave been commit-
VV ied ol tl.it city and New-Vol k andorher trfac- '°-
kby3 or 4 rjicji, « are np-v cwifinsrt is Wc.v-V 1 k a.
oal tor life, one of by naine Dr. G<-nt, alias al
imith White; anoil.er by name Dr. Gilbcit. aliis s(
lorged a bill of on NichoUjCook
>f Ncw-Yoik widi a letter of advice from Mrffrs. -
Srown, Beufpn Si Ivea of .Vovider.c;, [hey atfo !orj»-
d 3 r.lieckain tbc nameo! Nicholas ..ook,aHozcheclfs 1*•
,1 the name of John Ra'hb^ne —\tiili«m Grant i»
> jut 21 years old, light compfeiioa, long fivorcd, his g,
lountcnaoce by no means cxo'dCvc, but rather (illy | a
>r unmeaning; breathes uncommonly haid, and fre- •
pieutly heaves afijh, rather thin built, (lender couli)- c(
ution.has a hickinj eough.cirffumptive look . wore a
jreenclothcoat in July '95, has a de'eftin one 01 boili
'root (one time clerk with Nicholas Cook
in New-York —Gilbert, alias Lewis is rather tat or
lusty, has a icar over one of his eves, Giant & Gilbert
in June 1790 (orged letters ot recommendation and
credit tp this city,fr«ra J. Rathbonc,Nichols* Couk, g
Hoyt & Tons, PclJ & Mtllick, Joljn Rathbonf's w»a tl
well executed, Grant boarded at Mr. Gi imes' Tavam f
the George, corner of Mulberry and Sacond-ftreet ;
Gilbert in 7th street, and kept a one ho»fe chaise.
Grant slept ina room w«h Mr. Robert Uickncl), and a
brokeopenhisburcau, while M l*. B wasar Baiiimore,
and ftoie a bill cf exchange for 120 dollars, from the (
fijnatu'e he
dated 6 July '96, one for ionr hundred and forty-iwo
dollars, and gave uto Mr. Wilcox's black boy to re- 1
c ive, (he 3ank being Ihut the boy was taken into cut a
tody bv Methcr a conltable, the di aft lsys at the Ma j- t
or', offi e ; the other dtalt for 2dol'ars was paid
by the Qmk 1000 in the mo""J'g "1 the 7ill July— on
the 91b. Sa nrday afternoon, he received through the
hand* ol Melfrs. Debauffre and Goodwin a craft
Wil iam Prieflman'i*. dated B.h July on the United
Slates Batik far 100 dollars, tinng too latelo receive
it ilmt night, he forged another fiotn the figna ure on
the United Stales Bank lot 446 dollars dated 10th
July, Sunday, which was paid on Monday morning,
ea*ly. 131!) or Jul> Ije.ayprared in a new drels (
new boots, &c. and removed to a more retrfed lodg- ,
ing, atMrf Smith's b'iw.-en ' rub and Mace-ftreeis, ]
3 days after, he fct nurfor Virginia Springs, but upon >j
the road he slept na room with a geirleman aild {
robbed his fadd r bar« of some watches for which he (
was entenced at Aaltimpte to the wheel haiiw, hm
lately released, hiving very gopd friends in Connc&i- ,
cut.— ny oerlon wl o cap prove his wriiimj U|>n/|
cor.viftion of the offender, fhailreceive teo dollar, re
vj.'iri.as lb; UiKwed Statesflmk/ have ie used to pay
the money, apply to Wtllarn Pi icitniau, No. Ijfotiih
sth-(lrcei Philadelphia.
In a few cays the 3 checks evidently wrote by the
fame Gra t, 2 gentlemen having sworn to his writing,
will die left <tt the Mayor's </®ee for iofpesion.
aptil a. 6lj
"Treasury Department,
March 19, 1798.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
TH ATpropoials will be received at the Office of
the Secretary of the Treafuvy until the expi
ration of the 1 1 th day of July next ensuing, for
thefupply ps all rations which may be requited
for ;he use of the United Stales, fromthe firft day of
Qflqber 1798, to the thirtieth day of September
1799, both days inclusive, at the places and within
the diftria hereafter mentipned, viz. At Ofwego;
at Niagara ; at Prefque Isle ; at Miohilimackinac ;
at Eprt Franklin ; at Pittlburgh ; at Le Beuf ; at
Cincinnati; at Green,ville ;at Picqpe Town and
Lpramje's Store ; at Fprt Wayne; at Foit Defi
ance ; at anyplace below Fort Defiance on the Mi
ami River to Lake Erie ; at Fort Knox and Oua
tanon on the River Wabafh; at Maffac; at any
pipce sr places on the esll fide.of the Riyer Miffifr
(ippi above the mouth of ike River Ohio, and upr
on the Illinois River ; at any place or places on tie
east fide ps the Mifliflippi River below the mouth
of the River Ohio to the fouthem boundary of the
State of Kentucky, and within the said Stat* ; tit
Kuox.ville, Ttjllico Black House, and at all «»thcr
Pqfts in tie State of Teflp?lfec ; at a«y pla*e ,pr
places on theeaftfide pi the River MilUi}ipjpi>
low the foutliern boundary of the State of l enijef
fee, to tlie southern boundary of the United States.
If supplies fliall be required for arty poile or
places not mentioned in this notice.all such supplies
(hall be furnifiied at ptice» propfirtipned tp tbplsto
the polls before recited, as may be agreed on be
tween the United States and conn aflqr.
The ratioss to be supplied to eonfift of th-fol
lotving articles, viz.
One pound ps bread or floar
One pound of botf pr tjyeive pu -c?s of j<prk
or bacon
Half a Jill oi rum, brandy or \Vhif-~j
ky, one quart of Salt, two Auarts ChijnSjd
of vinegar, twopmißiis of f •
one. ppprd ief cand.les _)
The rationsare to.fee fßrnifhe,d in-fuchgtnotitio,
as tlut.these fl)all at all tin>e«during the.Lid term,
be Fufficient for the cpniemption ps file troopß.at
Michilimackinac, Detroit, Niagara, and Ofwego,
1 for the term,of fix; ninths in advance, and at cask
of the other ppfts, for the term of a' least three
monthsiji advance, ijj g/ood and wholesome pro.vi
iions, if the same.shall be required- Itistebeun
derffood, that the ccnrraCler is to be at th.e c?-
pence and rife of ifluiug the supplies to the troops
at pack pest, and that all losses foflained by tbe.de
of an enemy, or by meaos of the
troops of the United States, fcallbe jjaid (or at
the price of the afticlet or dsllroye 1, on
the cfepofitions of two orniore persons rtf cremti
ble charaflers, and the cei tifica,'e of a c'lmniifTior
ci officer, afcertainirg the cirturw fiances of the
loss and the am-suat cf the articles for wh">h c?m
penfation.fhall be claimed,
i The privi'lodgc is refcrved to the United State*'
of requiring that notle of the supplies which may
be furnifhed, under thepropc-fed cofltrtif , (hall be'
( jffued, the firppiits .which have qr may be
furnifted under the contiafft now in f 'fie hate
1 been consumed.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treqfyry. \ j
mareh 17. liwtl ly
I'UR SjALI*., r "
All that elegant three flory Brick House, brick
Kitcheu. and Lot of Ground fityate cn the
. south weft corner ol fourth and Prune flrects,
conutiniiig in front 011-F.j«rth street 3; feet, and
; m on 98 tat,.to a fimr fctt al-'
1 le.y intended to left oj*n with commou privi
s lege of the fame
Also, a two brick, House and Lot cf Ground
Qtuate on the weii fide ef Fourth street and ad
joining the above) containing in breadth en Fourth
ftrrct 15 feet 6,inches, and 111 depth 98 faetoa tie
said four feet »ll«y, with the cumm«n ptiviieges of
1 the f_me.
And also, a'l that Lot of Ground situate on the
weft fide of fourth flreet and adjoining the last
deferibeil lot, ia breadth on Fourth
street 25 feet 6 inches, a«d in depth on the- north
fide 102 feet, thencte running southward II feet 6
> inches, thence farther w'efhvard 12 feet, fhepce
fliil further southward 14 feet, and thence by the
Chapel ground 114 feet to Fhurtb street, with the
retnmrm ufuof the laid fotrr feet all.'y leading in
to Prune street The whole will be fold together
if more agreeable to the purchaser. ■
For terms, enquire, of the.fuhfcri'aer, ac his of
fice, No. 114 South Fourth street.
AT-RAH AM SHOEMAKER. »
march 31. 3 .-.vnf
To so r<i,
(And ppffcHion given on the tfl of May) r [
A geateel three ilory. brick House, 1
it feet f, om, a ••d 40 feet 4«p. »-ith fcack buildings »0
end ttrhh-S, at jirefct* in the tenure of Major J ck- I '
io-f. »t *B7 Booth I'hird ttrect. | ■ <
Tb BL SOLO, to
handfoiue uew three flory brick Dwell
i irnr Ho»(es, ten rooms m ' ach ; a Liyery
Stable, larg.: cn.mgh to contain tt"irty h»rfc> and a
large CoaJi House; all.completely There
is a convenient yard with a pomp in it, for the ac
commodation of the buildings. Any p«rf°n
inelinirg tof urchafc, by applyuig at the buildings,
No <6 and 4S Noith Sixth I'reet, may view theip, pi.
and b: .informed of the tftpt, which will be jnade on
easy if required. '
N.B. jfiufes will be fold feparatijly or to- wl
gather, as it may beftluittht purchaf r ; one of us
the houses is well calculated for a taycrn or private ve
far lilv. 'eojt »P r '- » 1
Joseph Ricardo,
OF this City, Merchant, has alligned his pro- er
perty for the benefit of his Creditors, ts James
C. Fiiher, Samuel W. Fiiher, and Thopias Wlll.ip.
All persons who hive demands are re
queued to furuilh their aceounu without delay—
and thofp indebted to make immediate payment (o fc(
the SuLferibew, Afiignecs.
'James C. isf Samuel W. Fitter.
No. 13, Arch
march 71 ftawtf
A Mouse and Lot in Dover.
FOR SALE,
GROUND, fitiiate on the east
of the main Crpet, running through the town
of Dover, in Kent Cou'Kf, in th* State of Dela
wa-e, about thirty or for v yards below Caotaiß
Fi.rbee's Tavern j front on said flreet
thirry four feet, and extending in depth eafUvard
twelve perches, together with ike buildings there
on (. re itec', which eonfift of a gOod brick houfcj
two lloriei high, well finiihed, with two rooms a- (
bout fevetiteeii or eighteen f*et fquane each, and a
passage tight or ten feet wide on eht firii floor.;
three rooms with a passage *hove, aud good gar
re;s > the eolhrs are excellent, one of which is used
as a kitchea; a back brick building with two rooms
above and belpw about ten or twelve feet by four
teen ; the upper rooms of this building communi
cate above flairs with the passage of the house :
A brick fmoki house, and a good pump of watqr
in the yard, and a garden adjoining. 1
The House is in every refperft as comfortable as
any in Dover, is in a good frtuation,
and now oecupicd by John Freeman, as a tavern,
with tke lign of the Eagle. r
The terms will be rcafonabje. Apply to Dan
iel Mifflin, at Camden, near Dover, or to the fub
feriber, No 60, North Eighth-street, Philadelphia. a
CADWALADER EVANS.
march »7- '
I ' NOTICE (
IS hereby given, that the Subscriber, an infql- t
vent debtor, confined in the common goal of ;
: the County of Cape May in the state of New- t
' Jersey, hath his petition to the Judges 1
of the Inferior Court of Common Pleas, in and j
for the said cou«ty, pM>ing that they would <
attend to hear jivliat cap be alledged for or a- |
' gainst 'his liberation, puduarit to an »,& of the
Legiflaturf of this "an a<3 tor j
[ the relief df infolverct debtors," pafled the i6th j
day of January 1798 —And the the said court <
. did appoint Monday the 26th day of March
pcxt for the punpofe afnrefaid ; to meet .at the (
r CfiurnHaufe in the Middle F.rcin«, at eleven ,
f o\loc£, in forenoon of tl}e said <V>y,nt which
. hi? creditors *re requfcfUd to tajte notice.
CHAiatS ALLEN,
i. Cape May, Feb. 8, 1798.
r ' Feb. 14—raw5w
! NOT I C F .
* 7" HERE AS a Certificate to Hannah Siiil-
W tr, of Oxted Cottage, .in the Coun'y ps
Surrey, in GTeat-Britain, Spinier, pr her alugns,
for two tboufand fiv£ hundred and pxtv-two dol
lars twenty-three cents, in the deferred lloClt. ol
the United States, was loft in the (hip tfeggy,
Capt. Hyer, bound from Pbil&dtlpbia to London
in tjir yew.l79*>-' iFhp.fvkferilier, the said Han
d nah .Shelly, inttnds to apply to the treasury of
i the United"States, ior a renewal of the said Cer
tificate.
'' HANNAH SHELLY.
1 Feb. 2%.
T.o be Let,
e , A three story brick House,
i- -With Stables, and a Girden,containing nearly one
" acre of choice ground, fcvefal Sumnjer Hpufes,
" Fj.uit Trees, Icq. on Race, andi second street from
,s Sc'nuylkiil ; the whole in good condition, and the
: situation high, airy and excellent lor a place of
e public entertainment.
lt An adjpioing Lot, 4° f eet front and ito deep,
n is also to let.
For te-tns apply to the fubferiber, at No. 30,
Pine street.
c WM. CURRIE.
" march XI. s££
Balkeiuidge —ior sale
JT couftfts of gioacres, «laoa!l all of which is
te! 1 a find rich Meadow, (tj:e refiuviiceof the late
j .Ctrl of Sterling). It may beconireaiently dixided
into five farms, four or' which arc bounded on the
East by the river Pafaitk.
Uxcarc on ita number of buiUings, forming
_ r afquare ol nearly three aeres —The dwelling hoafe
is s vfryfonvenient one .uid.a finallejpence would
.1 put it in complete repair.
; The orchard comitU of 15CO fin jbearingengraf
lL' ed Appb' tbere is on oth«r parts of said
s ,' trail near 300 other Apple .frees— as also a .great
varie y of other fruits, particularly Cherries ol the
•*s belt aud hioll delicious kinds.
Ajfp, a great number of beautiful Erotics and
J Forctt Tree-, that adJ to (he beauty and eonveni-
I, ence of tjie place. Its (ituarion is about 18 miles
u from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth 1 19 do,,
j. from Morris-Tosvn, and XI Irom Springfield—lt
V is wooded and watered.
0> T.o favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acte
in cadi, on delivery of the deed*. Pleafc to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No- 78, CheUiut treet.
February V eodtf
6 Red Clover gi the belt quality.
t»] MADEIRA iriNE,
ie OM, Tvttd fit for immediate ule, in pipes, half
ie jyipes and Qnarter calks.
)" r Tcncriife Wine,
And, V'indpv/ Glaf-—alt oF which will be fold
( m on very reaTwnable-terms, by
John Craig,
>■ No. li, Dock Street.
. march t w&stf
[ "VOLVME XIII.
NOTICE.
THE Partnership of the fubfcrihers, traiJin" t«n
jjrm of PAXSON Ss*
SON, wsi 4i{lo!vcd on t,he sixth cf the third mouth
last, by cpnXent. All pfrfoiia indebted
thereto arc eirnefljy requested to p y r ' cut ;
and tjiofe that have ijny deroandi ajainft the fjme,
are desired to prcfan th#ir accounts for fcttlctttcct
to either of theluMcribers.
Ifaae Pax/en,
ilathanid Riihcrdfun.
Philadelphia, 4th rap. 3d, 179®'
ISAACfPAXSON,
Continues to cjury oil the bufiftefa at the usual
place,- No. 10, South Third street, where he has
on hand a large aCfortment ef Iroimon^.ery, Sad
dlery, Cutlery and JJrafs Ware*, which h,c wi If., it
whoULlr pr re{;ul, 011 low terms, lor c-fii or
ulual credit. -HeexpeiH* to receive by the fit if.
veflels from London, JJriftel, Liverpool and Hujlj
a addition so hh prefect UTortment ;md
will execute with piuflujility and care any orders
from .be foriner and frjntViiad* in gen
eral. aaw 4\v
Twenty Dollars Reward.
THE Store occupied on account of the United
Statei, bade of No. 71, North VVater-ftreet
was on the night of the 19th mftaiit (March) bTp
ken open, and the following articles ttolcn, ami
taken therefrom : 1
Nine pieces Stroud, viz.
?374 20 \ JJlue ftroud single
2 3' 8 20 i 1 cW
*379 20 3
2380 20 \ }
2381 29i
2382 20 I
2384 £0 J
*3 S 5 iof J
The above reward if offered, fpr the d:fcovery
of the perpetrators of this robbery, so that they
be apprehended, and made amenable to jullice ;
further reward will be, paid, for the recovery of
any part et the jjoods Aolep, delivery »f «U«
fame tp
JOHN HARRIS,
Keeper Military Stores,
april ». iw
"Ifracl Morris
againtt j Maryland.
Thomas Margatroy tj. Jaroes Bell, ■' In Chancery,
Marfltall and Benjamin Smith, f March 8,
Executors of Samuel Tucker, | 1798.
<le«eafed. J
r I~'HE objedl of the bill, i 3 for the Complain-
X nant, HVael Morris, to obtain relief against
a judgment on a bond by him executed, on the
31ft day of December, 1781, to the said Samu
el Tucker, for the sum of £.IOO principal.—■
The relief is prayed on the ground, that the
Complainant afligned, by way of security for
the said money, a bond to him the Complain
ant, executed by Samuel Downing, for the film
<tf £-35° th" 11 *he said Tucker received of the
1 money due on the said last mentioned bond the
1 turn of j£. 100 and negle&ed to take steps fop
I obtaining the residue, until the said Downing
■ became insolvent.
The bill dates that all the defendants are
now residents of the State. It is therefore, on
1 <hi» motion, adjudged and ordered, that he
t caule a copy of this order to be inserted, three
weeks fuceeffively, in some newspaper of Pliili
: deiphia, in or near which the defendants reside,
1 at any time before ilit-firft day of May next,
1 or served upon each of the defendants general
ly, before the said day ; to the intent that they
have notice of the complainants application ta
this court an J of the substance and objeflof hii
bill and may be warned to appear here on or
before the third T»cfday in September next, to
(hew cause, wherefore a decree lhould not p<fs
- as prayed,
f Attefl,
1, SAMUEL HARVSY HOWARD,
Regi Cur. Can.
f april 3 cojw
i For Sale,
A good situation for a Country Seat,
[ Forty acres of. Land,
Qn the Old York ro»d, vhhin fight of Ger
maTltown, end about live miles from the city 5
the whole being under good fe»cc, and in ex
"" cellent order as pasture grou;^.
Far further information anu terms, apply to
JpNS Elliott at his Office For the
file of Iteal Estates, Conveyancing, &c. No. 54,
High-lfreet.
n * 4th mo. 3d. tu&f lit
e .City Commiflioner's Office,
January ntb, 1798.
FOR THE INFORMATION OF THfc CITIZENS.
P> r-yi H p jr>llv„»jng arrangement is made by the
i said commillioners, for cleansing the
' ftrctts, &c ;
Dillriil No. r.—From the north fide of Vine
flreet, to the fnu'ii fide of Mulberry flreet j tit
ije utidei tht ftiperiiitnidance of Nicholas Hirkp.
1 From the south fide of Mulbrry street, ta
the south fide of CVef&ut ftrreet, to be under the
fUjiei Hitendance of William Moulder.
18 3, From the south fide of Chefnut street tin
" the n«srih fide «>f Spruce street, to be under the
fuperiutendance of Jol'eph Claypoftle.
lc 4. From the north fide of Spruce ftptet,tn the
south fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu.
perintendance of Hugh Robert».
jj .Js* When pumps are out of order south of
High-Greet, plsafe apply to Thomas Dixey, at (Ke
corner of South and Fifth-flrects, or Godfrey Geb
-1(j ler, inj'ourth, near Chefnut-ftreet ( and north ■, f
at Higb-ftreet, to Dixey a::d iichaven, in Saflafra».
street. bttwein Sixth and S^venth-ftrects.
House and Lots, iri Bordentoi&n.
'. d BE SOLD, a handsome two story House,
X with the I-«t on which i' is ere<fted, lituat
ed about the middle of the beautiful and htoithy
Village of Bordcntovn. The houfs is forty
two feet in front, and in neat order, The lot
te . containt one acre, and is one hundred feel or»
n _ the main flreet, and exiends with the fame
breadth to back flreet. Aifo, a large Lot, con
•t. taining nearly four acres, separated from the
former by back street. One third only of the
~ purchase money will be required upon execut
" ing a deed, ar.d for the remaisder, such credit
. f wll be gi'vesi as the purchifer may cbufe. Thi»
1 property will be fold free of all incumbrances,
and an indil'puUble title
For further particulars enquire either of Dr,
Id Wfliiam Burnes,refidit;a in Bordentown, neaf
thf premises, who will Hiew the feme, or of
- PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, No. 43, Mulbcrry-ltreet.
Deccnier ». ' 3^5/i—. ■ ■
■*> ■ ■ ' ■ ■
Muillas at Audiou.
On SATUi<T'4Y MORNING, the -<h inil. »t !i
o'clock, at F>■ JT\l AN ts* Co'« Au<flio* (lore,
WILL BE hold,
15 bales of East India Muslins,
fly the bil«. f or apprevcd cndorfeJ notes at 60 \
*nd 90 d,"T' —conGfling of
B«fu«
Coffaes *
Guri'H"'
Handk»rchief«, Ice.
The whola entitled to drawback.
FOOTMAN Co. Auffrs.
apriT 4
For Norfolk and Richmond,
The fajl failing Schooner
< FAVOURITE,
Wm.W. Weymouth, majler,
WILL fail in all next wee 4. Fir Ft eight or Paf
fbge (baiting exce'ient accommodat'tnt) rpply to the Mas
ter on board, at JeJfi and Robert IVmln s wb<frj\ or (o
~ GEORGE PLUM ST ED,
No. 166 South From flreet.
atril S
Thomas SJ Joshua Fisher,
HAVE FOR SALE,
At No.j, Doek-ttreet,near the Drawbridge,
C.'ti'a v.'are tun keen fining fctts, tea and coffee
cups irfcl faacers
Nankeens, black fattim andtalTitie*
Purgera cloth#, eiioppah_rnm»ll», and bain!«J»noes
China »rd Eiiyliib umbrellas.
Together with a general ajfortment of European
Goods— among which arc
Scots thread in boxes
6d. SJ. tod. I»d and 20d.naili
Shot—T» Crowley fieel, Spanish brown and white
! ead
Engiiil feythes 4? to 5c inches
ALSO,
IT» harr' !Is of kilo dryef. Indian son mqal.
A commodious StoreinDock-ftreet,
No. 7. lie let, three dorks high, tollable for
any buCnff*.
4th wo. sth S'f
New Publication.
A SeoJibJe, Seafonclfe and Spirited
A D D "R E S S,
Written. 1-y a Ctchtui cf ftyi'adfjphw—entitled,
" What: is our Situation ?
•AND
What our Profpe<£ts ?"
A fczu Pages for Americans.
For Salel>y WILLIAM YOUNG,
Corner oi C hefnut and Second streets,
/rd « the Ofnce of the Editor, «19 Chcfmit ftr.
f Price three fixtcentbs cf a dollar J
£xtra<£l from the above.
«' I: is sfonijhing tc tear tie ex pence cf tear so often
urged, and Ly ice!l meant nv peap'c tco, agiinfl our taking
may me a fur es of felfprefrvation—fcaU r-ie be dcJlroytd t
leufufe wc will not iitsur the expense of defence. Fmr wv
orvn part, if kis recrffary I fhouid give one lalf of all
1 have to five tie oifcr, / fbull not a eft ate to do f>—lf
more is r^tt'f'te K wore flail he given ; and if fnal'y, I j
~> ifl give Lp all. io my life and liberty, ail fball be
/», 'y given. l lL>>. true wealth >f a nat.cn co:ff!s i,i its (
independence and fecurily, and nft in accumulating gold to ,
lit in rfd/fs keifs, or enrich ihe triumph of a savage con- j
rue ret —At a time when half the world is ratted in dire
co'.vujjlnrs til en imrnenf; countries are dcfolated and pew
its jl nations extirpated, if xve fcqJOe ivith txpence only,
we may deem Ovrfilr. es very fortu.Ajt
afrits
TREASURY : DEPARTMENT,
March 30 th. 1798.
Public. Nat ice in heteby given,
"THAT by an afl-of Conpufs pafiVd 011 the
i 19th day of Wai't}), 1798, the following
a'terati'ins and amendtnents have been mideto
the t£l passed Gn the 6th day of July 1797, en
ti;ltd "An ail laying dut.es on lUmped vcl
" lum, pirchiiient ancl t'iper."
The (lamp duties 011 debentures or f-ertifi
rat?s for the drawback of Customs or duties on
Imports are repealed.
11.
A difcoutjt at tli£t.\recf seven ajid one half
per Ccfttux/i, wifl be allowed by the Suptrv'H?Vr»
or Infpeiflors relreclivtly, to any persons other
than Officers cf the i'-evrriire, who may pur
chase at trie tine or prAcnre to be ftatnptd, any
q'jai titiesof Vellum.J'archiaeiU t r Paper, upon
«liich the duu«s (ball amount to .Ten Dol
js'i's or tAiwild*. ■ ,
"MI.
Stamped Papsr, witl be provided and fold at
the ratts ptefeiibe<l by law, without any addi
tional charge cr expcn. r c cn account of the
•price of Papet - ; but fx e stamped parchment or
Veflutj:', an additional prcc wiU be demanded
at the infeti'Fifty Cents for each lkin cf Parch
ment, or Cents for each skin of
Vellum of medium Qu, which may be furniTt
cd . t the fJcpenfif of the United States and pro
poitionaMv for any lefltr quantity-
rrj knnd, ut &i/tladelphiti, the
diy a':d ye: 11; aber.\-ment:aned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the t.rtcjs-y.
Mancheftcr Goads.
Beceived hy the latcft anivals from Liverpool, fe
vcral trunk?, tdirable ft t the prtft nt and ap
proaching 'a hich will be fold very
low icr r*(h or on a fliorc credit, vji.
7-8 and 9-8 Printed Calicoes
Jfcjcy Waiftci atirg in Mars ides, &c.
Cotton aitd filkandco'ttoi HoC.ry, Fantalccn',
&c.
A vuicty of (ErgLjVi Umbr-llas
T»fnketns, n«tcn Hf.kf«. Shoe <V2.
N. B- A csf« ps printed Mufliuen, and J trunk
of Pullicst Bacgalcre Handkerchief', entitled to
drawback, aed very '.ui'ab'W for the Wclt-lcdks.J
App'y No. South Water rnd corner of Cfet
nutllroet- 4.-tin. 4-MW
Madeira Wine.
A few pipe« of reinarksbly fine Madeira, fit
for immediate ulk, and at J reduced price—For
file by
April 4- d2w
Just Received,
AND FOR SALE BY
ISAAC HARVEY\ Jun.
(No. f t Sou'h Water ftrtct,)
A Quantity of Georgia Cotton.
ALSO,
Prime Aui-Cayes Molasses
KaiCtx in hrgt
Sugar in barrels—anrl
A few tons at Nicaragua wooJ.
4-li tao. 4«h
Juif Landing
from the brijHarmpnyfrom the Ifleof Francej
Ak<J for sale By
foftph Aptbenj i-f Co.
1:0 bale: Bourbon cotton of a luptrior quality
jo bag* do. coffee
24 caflcs do,
april i diet
Xijz oaitin.
P H 1L A IXF. L P H lA,
FRTDAY EVENING, April 6
Lift of the Laws
Enaßcd during the Sc[fton of the Legi/lature
of Pennsylvania, -which commenced cit Tuef
day,the fifth day of December, 1797, and
ended on Thwfday, the fifth day of April,
1798.
1, an aft to enable the Governor of this
commonwealth to incorporate a companyfor
the purpose of improving the navigation of
tl?e risrfcr liehigh;
2, a fiipplement to the aft, entitled," an
aft for incorporating the society formed for
the rtftef of diftrefTed and decayed Pilots,
their widows and children."
3, an aft extending the. powers of the
Judges of the Supreme Coutt and Common
Picas.
4, an aft for altering the place of holdiug
eleftionsin the fourth diftrift, in the coun
ty 7 of Dauphin.
5, an aft for altering Jertain eleftion dif
trifts 111 the county of Berks.
dp an aft fur the appointment anil regula
tion cf Cotiftables in the towufhip ot the
Northern Liberties, in the county 01 Phi
ladelphia.
7, an aft to provide for defraying the cx
penfe of furveyiitg five t raft so f land, berp
tofore granted to Ccinplanter, a Chief of
the Seoeci nation.
'B, an aft to provide f«r fettling the eom
petifations of sundry Members of the Le
gislature, at the late session, and to autho
tize the Speakers of the refpeftive Hoi»fcs»
to draw warrants, in their favor for the sums
Fouikl due.
9, an aft empowering the commifljciiers
of WelltnorehiwijCGunty to appoint afcflbrs
und afllAant wlTeftors, in sundry tolvnfhips
thereof, for thepurpofes therein mentioned.
10, an aft to empower Walter Clark','
William Gr.ij- snd William Wilson, to fell
and convey a certain lot of ground in the
town of Lewtiburgh, in Northumberland
couhty, and for other purposes.
11, an aft to appoint a Trustee in the
county of Mi/His.
12, an aft to provide for the ereftion of
houses for the employment and support of
the pocv in the counties of Chelter and
Lancaster.
13, an aft for the relief of David Jones.
14, an aft to authorize the Governor of
this commonwealth, to incorporate acompa
j ny for erefting a permanent bridge over the
river Schuylkill, at or near the city of Phi
, 'adelphia.
15, an to confirm that part of the road
1 laid out from Philadelphia to the borough
of York, by West-Chester, Strafburgh and
the Blue-rOck, which lies brtvveen Fawk's
j tavern and Weft-Cbefter.
16, an aft 4cclaring the rivers Ohio and
acrij certain branches thereof,
public streams or high-ways.
17, an aft to provide for copying the ic
coids of the several roads heretofore laid out
and iVhich hereafter may be laid Out, in the
1 county of Philadelphia.
18, an aft for erefting part 01 the coun
ty of Northampton into a separate county.
19, an aft to afford relief to Pittsburgh
academy in the county of Allegheny.
20, an aft to grant a sum- of money to
jthe Trufteesof the academy and free-fchool
of Bucks county.
21, a supplement to an aft, entitled,"an
aft to prevent the exportation of bread and
Hour not merchantable, and for repealing at
a certain time, all the laws heretofore made
for that pnrpofe."
22, a fuppleapent to the aft establishing
an explicit fee-bill.
23, an aft to authorize Edmund Milne
tocommencea suit againftthe commonwealth
upon certain alai.v.B which he has against
the fame.
24, an aft declaring Pine-creek, in the
county of Lycoming, a public stream or
highway.
25, an aft to ereft part of Quomahouing
township in Somerset county, into a sepa
rate eleftion diftrift.
26, an aft ibr raifmg, by way of lottSry, 1
a sum not exceeding five thousand five hun
dred dollars, to be applied to the defraying
the expenses ,of erefting a fcJwipl-houjfe. in
the townftiip jus New-Hanover, in the
county of Montgomtry, and for purchafmg
a lot ond erefting' a church in the borough
of Harrifburgh'.
27, an aft for raising, by wayof lottery,
the sum of two thoufaad four hundred dol
lars, for (he p'tlrpofe of compleatihg'a bridge
over Big Swjtara-cresk, at Jones's town.
28, an aft to enable the owners and pof-
Ltiers c;f the Brillol-Illand meadows, in cfic
tovvnlhip of Btiflol, and county of Bucks,
to keep the banks, dams, sluices and flood
gates 111- repair, and to raile a fund to defray
the expei.fes thetecf.
2ij, an aft to sutliorize certain lotteries.
30, an aft to enable the Governor of this
commonwealth to incorporate a company for
ranking an artificial road from the city of
Philadelphia, through Gerrnantown, by the
route of Chefnut-hill, to the twelve mile
ilou'e fcrl Ke:idii.g'roa<!, aifd thence to Read
ing, in the eoutity of Berks.
31, ao aft to annex part oi Bedford
county to the county of Franklin.
32, frti aft for running and afcei'taining
certain lines of the counties of Bedford,
Huntingdon, Somerset and Weftmoreland.
33, an aft to repeal an aft, entitled," au
aft foi raiGng, by. way of lottery, the sum
ci£ sixty.thousand dollars, for accomplilhing
the building a Hone bridge over the river
Schtiylkill, at the ' borough ol Reading,
and for other purposes therein menribned."
34, au aft to enable the Preftdent and
Managers of the company for eredling a
bridge over the river Delaware, at the
borough vf Eallon, -in the county of
Northampton, to raise, bj wajr of lottery,
77 "v
the tua of foi 15>■
purp'ife of cortipleating the work ill their
aft of incorporation mentioned.
35, an 3& to rc-cnaiS Certain laws relative
to county rates and levies.
36, a supplement to the aft to enable the
Governor to appoint Notaries Public, atid
for other purposes thereiti mentioned.
37, an eft limiting the term during which
judgments (hall he a Tien on reil eftatc, and
suits may be brought againlt the sureties of
pub'ic ofilccrs.
38, a supplement to the aft, entitled,";ati
aft for eftablilhing and building a bridge a
crofi Coneltogoe-creek, in the county of
Lar.cafler."
an aft altering the times of .hcidjng
the Courts of Cpfrimon Plias am] General
Quarter Scdion^ of the Peaee, in the coun
ty of Wafhingtnn.
46, nn aft iJj contirniing the present sal-
of the Judges of the Supreme Court,
the Secretary of the commomveahhj and
the Piitfidents of the Courts of Common
Pleas.
41, an aft to alter and arflcnd the Health
laws of this commomvrMth, audio incor
porate a Board of Managers of a Marine
and City Hospital of the port of Philadel
phia, and for other purpoles therein menti
oned.
42, an aft to provide a more eifeftual me
thod for fettling the accounts of the fevera!
[Brigade Infptftors within this common-
Wealth.
43V an aft providing'that the person of a
debtor (hall not be liable toimpn'fonment for
debt, after deiiverinj up his eflate for the
benefit of his creditors, unless he hath been
guilty of fraud or embezzlement.
44, an aft to continue in force, for a lim
ited time, the act, entitled, "an aft to ex-,
tend the powers of the Ju'.lices of the Pence
in this state, and fijVother purposes therein
mentioned."
54. a further :upp!ement to the aft, en
titled, aft for mairing an.tfrtlfii'Ltl road'
ffonithe city oFPhiladslphfe'tb the bofough
jof LailMllei"."- to? b(
46, an aft to authorize the Governor of
this comnronv«eahh to incdrjiorate a Compa
ny forerefting a bridge over the river Dcb.-
\\nrc-, at or near Trenton.
' 47, An aft for altering and cresting cer
tain eleftion diftrifts.
48, air aft to prevent the difturbince of :
religious Societies within the city of Phila
delphia, during the time of divine service.
49, refolutiou relative to the diftrihution
of the laws of the United States.
50, an aft to extend the time for patent
ing lands.
51, an aft for the relief of John Glen.
52, an aft to make certain appropriations
as well as for other purposes therein menti
oned.
For the Gazette cf the United State s.
MR. FENNO,
From what I can colieft from your pa
per, of which T am a constant reader, mat
ters are growing very icrioui indeed. But
so far as I can fee, it "is in a great measure
our own fault. I wonderwhatcculdhave put
it into our heads to affront these terrible
Frenchmen i 1 never liked our proceedings,
that I mud fay ; and I always thought it a
very imprudent thintg, to make Mr. Adarns
. President, when by elefting Mr. Jefferfon
we might have pacified them, and thereby
have efcapedthedreadful consequences which
are now about to fall on us. But dont ydu
think it will be much the best for us, to 2-
void war at all events ? In the firft place,
it will cost us a great deal of money, and
if such a fellow as Buonaparte (hould get
among us-—God help us ! what havoc lie
w&uld make ! Whereas if we patiently sub
mit to there, and sooth them, instead of
faying harsh things to provoke them, I can
not help thinking that they will fpa'rc the
most of us : and as they fectn very fond of
government, -1 douf in thtrleaft dopLt, but
they will entirely save us thai trouble. Per
haps they may guillotifie a frw of our aris
tocrats, and such as have fpokt and wrote
againftthem; bo,t I cannot think ihey are
.fobad, as to hlirt tbofc who have talked "in
their foVbr ; and' For thr own 'pari, I defy
any body to prove that I ever said a word a
gainst them. As to the great pother that
is made aboiit our trade and merchants
fering, and all that—l fee nothing in it.
A man in not obliged to be a mercharit. I.et
htm follow some other employment. These
i^a great scarcity of hatids'iii the couatty,
and good wages going. Beiides, it i°9 very
hard that thrifty prudent people, who have
scraped together, a-little ftiug property,
and have nothing to do with trade (houid
ftfSer forthofe who chufe ta fullctv it. Ev
ery man forl.irnfelf, fay I.
I wish too, with all my heart, that some
of ourgreat men in congress would coru'iuft
themselves with more discretion, and not
fay such provoking things of-our fitter re
public. I never could fee any life in pro
voking angry people. Now there $ t'ue
-viftory tlidt admiral Duncan gained over the
Dutch. It has turned out exactly as neigh
bor Wif-acre tyld me ic would. He said,
fays he, " it will only make 'em more
rious," and so it has, for now they artj go
ing to tear up England by the roots for it.
Or.e fcarceiy knows well what to believe,
there are so many. diSjreut ilorics goinjr,
but I can hardly think them so very wicked
as Peter Porcupire, and f#me other folks
represent them. As to their killing their
king, qneen, noblemen and prieils, what
have we to do with that? None of us are
kings, queens, noblemen or priefis, • Some
of us to be sure, have got a little money,
but (ince we bear no titlts, are good repub
licans, and love the poor dearly (or at least
fay we do) they can have no cause to quar
rel with us. I am-determined, however,
to be prepared for the word, so have bo't
myfelf a French grammar, and am learning
the language. 1 have already spent a good
deal of time in learning to fay Mounfeer ;
but neighbor Wife acre tells me it is all
thrown awav, and thst if I ".-as to call one
tffrjJtcni Moui.fter, i ibov.lsj be g" 1 -"' 1 * 8 ' .
lor an ariilocrat. lit ttlls me, I mud call
'em fijtjiycp- or fcnje fut'li comics! nam?. ,
'Hien he /ays, I mud not cail the mouths
by their old names-os January, ivbruary,
&c. nor firft fecond month, as the
{Quakers do, but Slivofe, IJltfviolc* VqtiLofe
and the k>rd knows how many other ofes.
And then he fays, they have no fiich thing
as fuflday among them—and that the queer
toads do not reckon by weeks, but some
thing they call decades and another plaguy
hard word that founds like lottides, but it's
a good deal longer. It would not be ve
ry decent if it was turned into L-nglilh,
I am told .},anJ that it is much the
fame an Holiday. And all thele things
may be learnt, lie informs me, out of the
French calendar ( Which is the fatne it leems
as an almanac! which B. F. Baclie has been
good enough to provide, for all such as
want to become French citizens, he tellsi
me alio, tliat t may get of tile, fame B. F. B
Tom Paine's Age of Re?, fun, uhich is the
French bible, and will open my eyes a gre-t
deal. lam very leth, I muit to
give up my r jigton, but it ls toiave
one's property, and perhaps one s fife, too,
I cannot but thick God Almighty would
forgive one. lam no great politician it-,
true, but I and all my neighbors are of o
pinion, t})flt irefteacl °f 4 o: PS aa Y to
vex theie French folks, it will be much the
fafeft way, lo coax them, and try to bring
them into wood humor with us.
PLOUGHSHARE.
N- B. I have a coufufe J fort of a notion,
Mr. Fenno, that belides this i'renrh Ctiltn
dur, which .is to be had at Bache's office,
your paper mentions, tint he has also -a
Scotch tnt, which seems to be a very vile
thing top. Why, what fort of a man mult
tWs B. F. Bache be ? His grand daddy was
a dealer in almanacs if 1 dont mistake, but
I believe hp never meddled with any- but
.Englifli oncs.^ ;; ■» ,
NBW'YORK, April 4.
The on Albany velfels wai; taken
off on Wednesday last. A few minutes af
ter a number of people-had passed over the
Hudson, on the ice, oppolite that city, that
■inim«nfe -body gave way, and the naviga
tion was soon freed from incumbrance. In
ordinary seasons this ice breaks up about
ten days earlier.
MELANCHOLY.
Yederday about 12 o'clock, oneof the Fer
ry. boatg; which plies between this city and
Brooklyn, acrols Euit-River, was unhappily
funk in a gull of wind, there were night
men in the boat,five of them were boatmen,
and three paffengers,all ofwhom weredrown
ed, except one of the boatmen. For the
fatisfaftjon of the citizens, we have taken
some pains to ascertain their names, but
could'not, except that of one of the paffen
gen;,. via. William Clemens, a Carpenter
of this City.
There was a continual gale from East,
northerly, through the day ; the Britilh
Packet, and several other vessels, dragged
their anchors coniiderably.
BOSTON, March 27.
This day, arrived (hip Lydia, Burroughs,
from Lisbon, 56 days. Feb. 18, lat. 29,
long. 42, spoke ftjip Seaflower, of Phila
delphia frnm the Iflc of France* for Ham
burgh, 10 weeks out- t
By the latest Pilot from the Vineyard, we
are inarmed, that lie left there, brig Nan
cy, Coffin, from Batavia, and a (hip fiom
Calcutta,, to be capt. Coffin, the
I only for^igpps,there.
WALPOLE, (N,H ) fttareh 17.
INCIDENTS AB*OAD.
The ?rench d reilory, in their mulish silence
towards cur envoys, have afted with a degree
of CoilMc-ncy hitherto unexpected frdm thtjn.
For what purpnfi; (hould they Confer wit!; our
en-voys ? To liquidate the claims we have upon
them.for depi edacious upon our commerce, or
to a'juft a treaty, which (ball prevent their
capturing iwir vessels in future ? Can either of
thefe'be a deferable objeil with them) Not
even the mad enthusiasm of FrenchnjSn can car
ry on a lengthy war without fcppll.es of money
iiKfcproviifion! Commerce, tnanuluflures, in
land ta#es, »l»e,Boyal|loiiiains..a wealthy nobili
ty, and liberal clergy, tiiofe grind sources of
French govern mental wealth, are now dried up.
The prtiefit Trench rulers find their only re
fugee in fraternization and plur.der. llolhud,
Spain, and the numerous republics, whether cis
or trarilaloini, have felt the tffVft? of the for
mer , Dtnmarlq Sweden, and the United States,
of thelaticr. For what purp®fi, we ajaimik,
'.'hould they confer with our iinveys ? It can
not be to imkf peaqj. Can it be 10 excite war f
For what purpose (liquid the l'Ysn;h with a war
with the united StlteV ? That our dcfencelcls
NtfTel btinjarir ed h't become the more diffi
cult nf capture than at preicnr, «'hen we are too
fotritlefs nwrm tliem > Fotvburpt|rpk)fe Ihou!d
,they with <Mir Envoys ? Can it be with
the lame with wiucb tlvcy amuied the
Kngllfii Loul MalmTouiy, that the despotic
\rar parly might h*ve time to hanilh to Cav
eivr.c t!,e real fritr.dt to France, America and
peaec ■ Wi tip not under!hi)d that Americans.
! have any friends in France. Depend upon it
the French ail confidently. What debtor is
attxipus to liqui latjt claims, which he is con
-I'rjoire he has nether the will nor ability to pay ?
Or what tlii. f, who had committed repeated de
predations Ujtn your property, had frequently
Uolen the meat from yotr cellar, or cattle from
your barn yard, while yoo have spirit enougli
todtfepd your own property, would wifn "to
haftefi l.w into the examination of a
court of iiiSrjfnihcaßt iunr,ber cf
we>k people us, i'ome years ago, when
French hinds were not so clotted with blood,
wijhed t« fraternize witli them. In that cafe,
the French would probably have taken ten times
the property from us they now have ; but it
would have been taken from the community at
!art.-e. Bu?, as a large iiember of wife men
difapp'ovol the laiiguinary fehemes of French
philofcphers, arid refuived to preserve our nation
indepetidonc of torsign power, we did not
therefore fraternize with the French, and they
have continued to'plifr.dcr u; and the cafe
now is, some individuals fuffer severely •, in the
of fraternization, all would hive been in
volvea in oneviocim 11 ruin.
Incidents at Home.
The fruthern mail, which v,e expelled on
Situ:dsy, Lis not arrived. In confenutt.ee ef
this recent CMMnuincalioiM
uire-.'lly from Cowrtfi. uy thecomplexion of
Boft "i papers, the (Ji-tllion of Jefcnfiff-opera
ti.in is «ari iiy abated. Urm <>R jtarv:, fays
onep'rty ; am Asn/ar-zv, fa/s the other :
anJ the nec?ffity o(wlitfcz is urgil in language
tetter calculated v> divide. J 'eH, any
ou jit * i.A union,
mull rticeuarify lie a wade of breath, or ink and
oaper. When Britain made spoil of our con,,
men e, the party difafte<3ed to our gottrami.it
was vociferous in fuinmoijing to arms. The
fs<lerati!i». or friends to order, admitted tie
propriety o& war ; but judged it
i .o: derogatory to our uitioaal dignity to attnop:
an acquitment by negociation. Terijns
oropo td, which our envoy thought proper to
accept, and which were afterwards ratified and
put in operation by a conltitutlonal majority of
both branches- iff our own gdvernment. riot
when Gmilar arid probably mtrcb greater out-,
rages were committed by the French, the fain'.:
friend) of order propose the fame means of ac
commodation and the fame preparation for
war ; ami, when terms are proposed, which go -
vernment approve, it will be time for the Jiicit
bins to complain of inconsistency, if the Voice
of the federalifts should then be " still for war."
At prelent, the charj.x of inconsistency or par.
tiahty is a bsfelefs fabric.
We hear from Keene, violent suspicion« are'
there entertained that the late villainous attempt
to i&ti a ftot-ei.i tint town, was nothing more
thsn a villainous attempt to haveth« store rpb
bed. This is either refinement in knavery, or
refinement inlander.
ALEXANDRIA, March 3 ».
FROM EUROPE.
The feip Ann, Captain Black, belonging
to this town, arrived this morning from
St. Übes, after a paflage of 48 days.
Captain Black has favored us with tic
following intelligence.
Left in St. Übes the (hip Charlotte, of
New-London, capt. Fitch, and the fl>t£>
discharging ballad—the ship Ann and Ca
tharine, of New-York, capt. Lowring, ta
king in £ak, and the-biig Fanny, of New
buryvPort, capt. Stover, ready to fail next
day after us—thefc four fail being all the
Americans in St. Übes.
A.few hours after leaving St. Übet, was
spoke by a British 74 gun (hip, (leering for
the bar. of Lisbon ; the afternoon of the
fame day, save a fleet of ten fail of line of
men of war flanding towards the Rock of
Lisbon, supposed them to be part of adthi
;ral J?rvis's fleet. Also, during
he by in Sr. Übes, a French frigate of 40
guns was taken and brought into Lisbon by
a Portuguese 64 gun rtiip, after an engage
ment of two and an half hours 5 and it it
said to be the firft capture of a (hip of war
made by the Portuguese during the present
war. Seven or eight French privateers
(which very much infefted that coast) were
also taken and brought into Lisbon about
the fame time; one of them is called the
Dumourier, and carries" 28 guns.
The invasion of Portugal by the Freftch
and Spaniards was much talked of and ge.
nerally believed : a very great alarm was
raised in Lisbon and different parts of Por
tugal on that Sccoflnt. In order to efFe£l
this invnfion, the Frehch are said to have a
dopted the following plan :—ln the firft in
stance, have a hundred thousand troops
marching towards the frontiers, and fifty
thousand more embarked on board of trans
ports,' mostly at Toulon, &c. under the
prote&ion of twelve fail of the line, to o
pen a passage for thim out of the Mediter
ranean : and secondly, the Spanilh fleet
is to be, compelled to go *ut and fig»t ad
mirtil Jarvis —and in thus Sacrificing the
Spanilh fleet to the Engli'fli, Jarvis, of couffe
will be obliged to make for forae friendly
port with his prizes, and no doubt much
(hattered fleet. During that interval, the
French fleet tvill find n<i opposition in mak
ing the mod convenient choicrof a hnding
place, any where along the Portuguese
coast.
This plan is in one refpeft reafouable,
and might be carried into effedt ; but oppo
fedto that, is the facrificing of the Span
i(h grand fleet ; which surely the court of
Madrid cannot approve of, nor the deep
laid politic lc'nemesOf the French dire&oty
jtlftify :—Be that as it will, it has created
much uneasiness in Portugal, although at
present, the conr,ts of Madrid and Lisbon
are otl friendly and pacific terms.
C r The City Dancing Afiembly,
Intended for ThurfJay evening ncx t isunavoida ly 1
poftponid until Friday, the 13th of Ayrii when the
feafen will' be closed.
April 4
ROSS E? SIMSON,
HAVr FOR SALI-,
A small invoice of best Triage
COFFEE, iu(barrels and hags
12 bales fuperiol- Madrid Blue Cloths
Carolina Indigo firlj quilitv
A few bales Baftas, Coflfcs, and a quantity of
Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGA il, in bags and boxes
Jamaica and / kT , rT ,,,
Bengal j IlU^
Apiii 4. §
TO BE LET,
Ami pcjjzjfion given immediately,
A genteel three (lory brick lioufe,
S . 7, Worth Eighth (Ireet,
24 feet front 55 feet oc-p, with a handsome
Gart en. Enquire at No. Jl3 Spruce ilreet. ,
'■ 4
The friend's oi" American Seamen,
Imprcffcd on borvl Btit.Bl fliips ot war, who
are desirous of effeftisg their rel«ale, arc reoueft
cd to fwrnilh proof of the.'r citizenthip and of
the dofcription W their perfoHs to the Depart
ment of State, whence it will be forwarded to
the Public Agents in Grew Britain and the Welt
Indies. 1
Department of Stare, ")
Philadelphia, April. 1798 5 4
The Owners of 59.82 Dollars
Optured in the
York, ciprain Edward Johnfton, hy the PrencK
privateer Kevanchr, captain Antouie Berard, on
the :3th or ia'tt July, are to make male
(hate appiieirion to the Department of State re-
the fame. q
Depaitr.ent of State, >
iifrsl i, 1798. J ,% y K (sasetti\ , I
_— —1
PHILADELPHIA, '
FRIDAY EVENING, AprP 6.
Outlines of the Inflrußians and
Difpntchri.
It if enough to fav that the inftruftions •
were as ample, as conciliatory as the objeft
to be attained could pofTibly require.» That 1
France was offered either such modification j
of her old treaty as would meet and rertiove
her complaints against it, or if flie would
prefer a new one (he was to t»e* gratified—
Ar.y advantages given to the'Britifh were to
be offered to her— Although, indeed, the
commifiioners were not by any treaty to re-'
linquidi the right of future indemnification.
The eemmiffioners on their arrival at Paris,
wrote a letter to Talleyrand communicating
the objeft of their million ; to this letter
they had received no anftver at the time of
theirlaft dispatches—but two persons called
bn the commifiioners, told them thty were
in the ptrfeK confidence of Talleyrand, and
opened a conversation on the fubjexft of their
million. They dated iSat the Direftnry
were much enraged at the speech of the Pre
sident at the last f.immer session, and that it
was necessary fonie disavowal of his senti
ments or some atonement for thera should
"be made ■: the «ommiffioiiers replied they had
no po\ver to drfavow or atone for those sen
timents, that the President by the Conftitu
tioa had a right to communicate his fenti
mentson the state of the union to Congress,
thai they were his own feniiments and the
government had nothing to do with them :
fevtral communications passed on this fub
jeft before a diredt avowal was made_of the
kind of atonement required-; at length i; came
out—M.ney, money, money, was all the cry.
Douceurs to an enormous amount*%ere de
manded for the officers ; as they complained
that while some of the Dire&ory had plen
tiful fourcts of wealth, others of them were
deficient. Several other extravagant de
mands cf loans and money were made in the
ma(| (hamelcfs and insolent manner—Our
commi&oners talked of treating on terms of
jvftice, reciprocity, &c. They were laughed
at—when you treat with the Indians, said
our brotherly allies, do you not pay for
peace & when you treat with the Algerines,
do you not give money for peace ? have we
not made Hamburgh, Portugal &c. pay,
and (hall not too ? our commifiion
ers obje&ed—they were, then reminded of
the fate of Venice. They were told when
Great Britain is overthrown the terms will
be more severe 5 take the present opportu
nity. The commissioners rtprefented that
fueh proceedings would unite America againfl
them, and that America when uhited would
be invulnerable. Poh ! poh 1 said the French
men—that is impoflible—we know how to
manage that matter—you know we are very
expert at intrigue—we havetoo many friends
in. your country—you can't hurt us there—
we will contrive to make it believed in Ame
rica that the failure of the neguciation—
that all the evils you fuffer, are owing to
the conduft of the federalijls, or as we name
them, the Briiijh Faftion in the United
States —take the present opportunity, pay
money, and save yourselves. Finally, Mr.
Gerry informed Talleyrand of these conver
fa:i<jns, and aiked him if the men alluded
to, ieal!y possessed his confidence arid fpokc
his sentiments—Talleyrand said that they
did. But if all these things had been com
pKed with, what were we to have in return ?
why, our commissioners were to fcfe admitted
to a negociation, and Talleyrand was to
promise; his influence to prevent any futher
spoliations
The Douceurs required for the officers,
were 1,200,000 Livers, about £50,000
sterling. We were to take at par about
33,000,000 of Dutch florins, the value of
which is now 50 per cent, under par, and
look to the Dutch for the deficiency at.the
peace, with other enormous rcqutfitiori? to
the amount cf many millions of dollar*.
MR. FEN NO,
I Have read in Bache's paper of this
morning a paragraph which (iate9, that the
vote of the Senate for publishing the Prefi.-
dent's message of the 3d inft. with the com
munications of pgr Envoys " had a majo
rity of two." The implication, from this,
that the majority was only " two," is fatfe.
An honourable member of the Senate, for
whose veracity, writer of this would
pledge his life, has declared, that on the
vote, there •was no Jivtfi&n. That to the mo
tion foe publication snoppofition was made,
but when it became certain that it would
prevail, the oppofittort was withdrawn, and
on the question being put, but two members
pronounced " no." This publication from
Bache's paper, comes as near the truth, as
would be expe&ed, frcm that
vehicle of pollution and falfehood.
A few observations, Mr. Fenno, on the
propriety of the order cA the Senate, may
probably be expedient.—Before the motion
to call 011 the Prefidcnt was made, the ene
mies of the government, who are known as
the devoted friends and tools of France,
yrete every where, in Congress and out of
it, not only infinnating but as boldly as
wickedly pronouncing, that the Executive
was in'idioufly pursuing the system of his
predcceffor—a system intended to involve
this country in war with France ; and rely
ing on the obvious motives *o withhold a
communication of his inflruflions, and the
of the ministers, with the
most abominable impudence, they affirmed,
that the Prefidcnt dared not dfclofe his eon
dvi}. At a time when our very existence
was at risque, and there appeared no means
at defeiH/ng the nefarious intentions of' an
abominable fp&ion, which had brought
their country to the brink of, ruin, but
by a full di£»lofi>.e, the neceflity of making
it, tho' painful, had become inevitable—
When the secret was committed to the Le
glflature it was no longer pofiible t > prevent
iii; circnlaticn of It—ttuonly question then J
whether the people fnvuld be fnilyin- j
formed, ti- left to the ftfuking f
from mificprcftntE'ion and mifconeepticn. c
Of the alternative the eledtion coald not be 1
difficult.
It has been said that the publication en- t
dangers the fafety of our envoys. If this c
conje&ure was well founded, it would as- I
ford a concluftve reason against the measure. ' 1
But when we arc. told, in these very dlf- t
patches, that our country abounds with the t
a£tive and ikilfull agents, of the wicked t
ffiifcreailts, who govern France and are d«- t
folating the world ; and when tire kuow that t
in our streets, before the vote in the senate, i
the precise amount of the fbfnrts of corrup- j
tion were Hated, it was irrVpo(!?t>Ve Wt to 1
conclude, with certainty, that the diredlo- <
ry would have the substance of the commu- |
liication, by the iirfl pofiible opportunity. ' 1
The mifchief, therefore, as it refpe&ed our ]
ministers, was already done ; and the only 1
question vas, whether the opportunity of i
eftablilhing a deferred confidence in that 1
great and good man the Prefidef!t,andUnion
among adeludtd and divided people—a con- 1
fidence and union rndifpenfable to our secu
rity, flionld be embraced. A. Z. j
THEATRE.
A very crouded and fplbndid theatre as
sembled last evening for the benefit of Mr.
Fennell. A general clamour was made for
the President's March. Whenthetune
was played, the uproar and applause from
all quarters of the house were l'o general,
so loud and so incessant that very little of
.the tunc was heard. Thus as our affe&iohs
are withdrawn from foreign influence, the
warmth of the public love and griiitude
for our own worthies, our real benefadtors
will rtturn with redoubled vigor.
The Eastern Mail had not arrived .
when this Paper went to Pre fa. < a
* # * The writerof the pieces which we
have published under the fignatur- of Mar
cellus, is reminded of his promise of sub
sequent communications.
From the Bojlon Columbian Centinel.
On the Subject of ARMING.
MR. RUSSELL,
IN the course of some observations I
made in your last Centinel in reply to a wri
ter in the Chronicle, I hats oCcafton to touch
on the fubjeel of arming our Merchantmen
and (hips of war in certain cales ; a mea
sure which we are told is in contemplation
in the National Legislature." The fubjeit
was too important to admit of being treat
ed on in a cursory way, Snd it "was then my
intention, to confidsr it more at large in a
future paper, aid in dying this it i* proper
to set prejudice aside and fuffer ourselves to
be influenced by no other consideration than
a regard to the public good.
In confidcring this measure there are two
questions, one is the right, the other the
expediency. Although lam sensible that
those with whom we have to contend, would
| consider only the latter question withotv: re
gard to the former, were they call :d on to
| decide a matter of similar importance ; yet
! the refped we owe to the opinions of other
nations, and thejuftice due to a goodcaufe
; which ought neVer to be confounded with
a bad one, makes it proper firft to c»nfider
the question of right-* This is more pro
per at this time, when every artifice that 1
base and designing men can employ is bro't
forward to deceive the people as to the
views of our administration ; a»d when the
arming to defend against unprovoked outra
; ges is attempted to be imposed upon the
people as an open declaration of hostilities.
1 (hall endeavour to (how that by precedent
and the law of nations we possess this right
and that byourexillir.g treaties with France,
the right is clearly implied. The law of
| nations it is true, gives to powcrsat war the
right of going onboard neutrals and mak
ing peaceable feareh for articles of merchan
dize declared to be contr*baud ; but this in
always urtderftood with ihe 'limitation that
no improper force (hall be employed in the
search, much lei's that under the pretence
of legal inquiry the mod barbarous infiilts
(hall be committed, and the innocent neutral
treated like an enemy.
If any belligerent power undertakes thus
to set at defiance the rights of neutrality,
and uniformly to persist in a condu& which"
wants only the formality of a declaration to
make it completely holtih, and adds to this
conditfl, arefufal to hear the complaint of
the injured neutral ; from that moment the
ground is chauged ; the law of nature
which forms the bafts of-the law of nations
makes it not only the right but the duty of
the neutral to refill.
Accordingly we have fcen in the war of
our revolution, the northern po\vj: s of Eu
rope form a league, calling it the aimed neu
trality, in which they declared that they
armed not in defiance of the law of nations,
but because they refufd arty longer to sub
mit to those, infringements of that law,
which the belligerent powers were daily
pra&ifiug. This instance alone has fully ef.
tablilhed the law of nations on this point,
and will and ought to serve as a guide to
neutrals in similar cases. the law of na
tions juftified the armed neutrality, there
can be 110 question that our cafe much more
clearly falls within its true inteut and spirit.
By the 27th article of our treaty of auiity j
and commerce with France, it is stipulated !
" That if the fiiip* belonging to the in- i
habitants of either of the countries, be met
with by any ship, or (hips of vt-ar, or pri
vateers belonging to the other, the said (hip
of war or privateer, foe the avoiding of any
difardtr, lhall remain out of cannonJhat, and
may fend their boats on board the Jnerch.tuc ;
(hip, and may • nter to the number t,f two \
or three men only, to whom the commander i
of the mei chant flii • fliail exhibitliis pafiport ;
according to the form annexed ti> the treaty •
—and the (hip when (lie ihali have fhevved •!
I'iicli |n(Tport, fii.tl'i l.s fir? a«^it liber')' to
p'jrjue h?r as it JSU?I 110: ben w
ful to moleil or lcarch her in any manner,
or to give hrr cliace, or to force her to quit
fcer intended conrfe "
It is a known princ'pl: in the law of na
tions, that the breach of a\r.-atyby one
of the contrasting parties absolves the other
from the obligation of performing his ilipu
lations. If we fhuw that in no inftsnce have
the French paid any refpeA to the above ar
ticle ; we have 8 right fairly to infer, that
they never can complain, fliould w« refill
their bftarding our (hips when it is attemp
ted, in any other way than that above pre
feribed. Is there not an implied consent on
their prut, that if their (hips of war, or pri
tateri'S, difregaided the (lipnlation intend
ed for the " avoiding any tfforthr," they
(hall 2biJe the coofequences of their wicked
riefs or ignorance, and that the neutral (hall
be juftihed in refilling fueh illegal boarding.
Let us examine the fact. I preiume no
ir.dance can be found In which the letter or
spirit of the article has been complied
with, a provision which every man will fee
to be highly proper and necessary ; —for
without fonae such precaution, how is the
fieutral to diftiuguilh between an inten
tion to examine papers, or adefign to com
mit ang£i of piracy. laftcad of the ships
of war or privateers remaining out of can-
Iwnfiiot, have not instances happened where
a broad fide has been the firft intimation of
an intention to board i Instead of fending
their boats on board the neutral, have not
innumerable instances occurred, where they
would not hoist out their own bakts, but
, have compelled the neutrals in tempestuous
weather, and at the ri(k of their lives to
come on board them, and if I remember
right, (for 1 would not' mifneprefent a fin
! gle fa£t) one or more instances have hap
-1 pened, where the neutrals have perished in
I attempting,to go on board the (hips of war
jVr privateers. Whej-e they have boarded
| our veffeis, instead of-" tal\ngtr»o or three
: men only," have they not always taken e
nough to overpower the neutral, and instead
of peaceably searching for contraband goods
have they not in many instances commhted
every violent again ft the unresisting crew
---robbing them even of their wearing ap
parel, and often adding blows to other in
juries too (hocking,to be mentioned ? I for
bear to dwell on a fubjeft so painful to the
feeling of every American.—lt is enough
for my present purpose, that the law of na
tions gives 11s the right to arm—gnd that
thisrightisalfofaiilf to btf implied from the
-spirit of our existing treaty with France. ■
More has been said about the expediency of
arming than about the right, and more
doubts seem to have arisen on the Igfter
than on the former question. If, in the
eourfe of this war, we had fuffered only
what neutrah may be expefted to fuffer in
all wars, from the ignorance and mifconduft
of a few of the armed veffeis of the belliger
ent powers —and if through the ordinary
channels of communication, remonstrances
might be made, and those remonstrances
were listened to, there can be no question
but that this mode of redress would be the
mod eligible.—But let my fellow citizens
.attend to the fituatton in which we are pla
ced with France. One of our ministers has
not only not been acknowledged, but was
ordered to quit the territory of France,
with every circumstance of contempt; when
our government, laying aside their refer.t
ment at this indignity, in the true spirit of
conciliation, joined two of our mod refpedt
able fellow-citi?ens with Mr. Pinckney in
the million of Peace.—What treatment hav«
they reeeived ?—The most .contemptuous
negledt and the fulleft assurances that they
will not be listened to by the Diredtory,
and that their overtures for healing the
breach between us and France will be dis
regarded. By this conduft, whatever in
juries we may receive, mull fail to be re
presented to the Directory, and the door of ,
communication in the ordinary way
be completely (hut. Beside refufing to re
ceive our Mjnifters, 1 appeal to every man
if they are not daily iffuiag decrees of a na-.
turemoreand mnrehsftile, . If things are so
if, as Vi£ior
declares.it is the intention of tjiegovern
ment to treat us with severity—is it is also
true that the (hips of war and privateers of
France are daily practiling on the theory
laid down by the Directory, what remains
for us—either to submit to be captured a.id
ill-treated wherever their veffeis meet ours,
or by a proper and spirited resistance to con
vince the Directory, that although faithful
to our engagements, we wi(h no exemption
from any stipulation we have made in the
spirit of the Treaty ; yet that when we fee
violence and rapine usurp. the place of right
and a spirit of plunder substituted in the
room of legal inquiry, we will submit no
longer. ->> m-n ' > ~3,i .1,
I am fenfib'e of thf claifionr on '
this oeeafion by thule who have uniformly op ,
posed the iru-afures or'our adininiHration, and
tfot all means;,re excited t« make the people
b- lieve that there is a hottile intention in our go
vernment towards that of France. The faiit is
not to r.o govmvmtnt on earth were ever at
j more pains th.irt ours has, and now is faking to
j pr;ferve peace not only with France but wrth all
j the world. , And whoever denies this Ijsuft ei
j ther have been .1 fupirficiaf ohferver, or wilfully
il-eiit on deceiving Ihe pcoji'e by fnbltituting
fallhood for truth The dirt<slof y themMvei af
ter what they have feeti of our forbearance, will
j not e that we wilh for war. 1 adtn't it is
I pofniile that \j-r»en the directory discover in con
• feq s^nee of our arming, captures »ud con.iem
: nation* to be lefi frequent, renewed host lities
| may be the consequence—even then *>ur fitna
-5 tisn Cifuld hardly be w, rfe than it is atpreleut.
On rhecontrary, knowing what to expedl, we
fhoiiid be prepared to meet the evil.
Let nu-aflc those who arecdling meetings in
the neithboring tgwns, 10 eonlider feriondy the
\ (jueftion 1 ha* e hem diicuffing, before they de
, C'de on poijiirijj in petitioi.t to cur Legill.ture,
j bdmpering the operations of our government,
Ijrmdiing bur eriemies with arguments
j wii.th are c tpahieol bt i'-g employed £0 the wotft
! p«rfx>.r«. Let me 3lk the CUtiOnatsu o/Roxbu
\ ry to co:if;Jer wheiher it is wiie at a momci.t
j l.k.c ti v e present to take any mcafure which may
' operate clviiiejjs br'.wtct) town and CQur-Jry ;
'•%t ra? A'him to cofifidir ffic toi" li
nauimity , kt we warn Mm aga-.f.fl cndeavour
ine to pervade the yeomanry «f o'ir country,
that they )iave * different inrereft fr®m that of
■ their brethren in the feipurt towns. No, my
fellovcHzens. in to» 11 and country your i; t r
' efft are the sam». Whatever the
and the Phoiejoej in the Chronicle may fay to *
tlie veomanry, we know you tlO we.il to believe '
that you can tamely look on ind fee the cetn
merrial lr.rereits of our country facriSced by in- (
dTrrim'mate captures, «*« were your inlert'U ,
foreign From thrift of the merchants ; btrt it ,
would he easy to prove that when commerce
fails agriculture mult perish with it. Qt you
*hen I alk, is it (it and proper that a nati n like
this, a comTJtr ial as well as agricultural nation,
flipyf' yield no proteilion to commerce ? % it
rijrht that We (hould be so completely defence
lefs that a foreign armed boat may erttrrour j
harbours atirlwi'h impunity l>trf» : arid-deStroy
veffeis lyiiip at anchor under the «3j>l:ed protec
tion of neutral lovereignty ? Is it right that i.ur
valuable merchant ships, with every document
to prove their neutrality, fiinuld be daily cjp- '
tnrtd by picaroons, and crnderped without the .
colour rf light, for {he want of a few guns to
protetfl tliem ? Yet ihefe things and worse we ]
inult submit to, or author xe our merchantmen i
t.) arm.
1 therefore conclude that it is not only rig'nt
and expedient, but absolutely neeeflary to fur
nift the means of defeßce to our cpnimerce —
that the merchants in fommon with tVi reft of
our fellow-citi/ens, may ft el the protection of
that conftitiitifu and those laws, to whith they
atleaft equally with others have always yielded
a ready homage. MARCUS.
From the Norfolk Herald.
However much the friends of the country have
to regret the failure of the Extraordinary EmbatTy
to tfc* French republic, and whatever reafim they
■have to depiore, that war, the great fenurge to
map, is already brought to their doors, and ready
to thunder on their defencel»ii eoatLs ; yet they
I sincerely hope and firmly persuade therofelves,
that the unceasing sfforts and sincere endeavors
which the Executive has uniformly adopted to
prcferv peace, inviolate with ail nations, will
not only cause unanimity in our councils, but tend
;to the uniting of all hearts and hands m delence
of this •tir common andjuftly beloved country.
t he crtlr- hiving arrived wkiili calls for all u-
TiiliiijJ In defence of enjoy) under
the most mild and equitable of governments,—it
then, surely, isaot too much to presume, that all
parties will unite in defence of their property, the
independeueo, honor and interell ef their coun
try, and to prefer v« the blffling' they enjoy, and
prolong them unimpaired te their posterity, by
making uft of those means which a beneficent
Providence have put them in pofleflion of, for
the defence of all that is valuable anddcar to man.
march 28. A. B.
CONGR £ S S.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
THURSDAY APRIL £.
Tha Speaker laid before thehoufe an un
favourable report of the Secretary of War,
on the petition of Stephen Cantling, who
pi ays for comp«nfation for his services in
Major Orr's expedition into the Cherokee
country in 1794. The report was referred
to a committee of the whole, and made the
order for Monday.
Mr. D. Foster, from the committee ot
claims, made a report on the petitions of
fuiidry citizens of the western couaties of
Pennsylvania, who pray for compensation
for losses and damages sustained from the ar
my and militia in the Weftprii Infurre&ion
in 1794. The report (tales, that if sup
plies were furniflied by the petitioners, and
regular vouchers are fumilhed, their ac
counts will be fettled by the proper depart-'
raents ; but if the losses complained of Were
not of this kind, they must be considered
like other fufferings consequent on a (late
of warfare, for which this goTernmeot never
made any allowances. This report was com
mitted for Monday.
On motion of Mr. Dent, the house re
solved to rcfumc the conlideration of the
confidential commsnicationsiately received
from the Preiideut, and the galleries and
house were, of coprfe, cleared of strangers.
The doors were closed till pad four o'clock,
when an adjournment took place, before a
ny decision had been-come to with refpeit
tojhe publication of the communications.
K.\'OXVILLE, Much <>.
Arrived this day at Knotville, a veftel. built in
the river Moltchucky, burthen JtJ> tons. This
piece of nival irchitcilnte, has sot a conlidfi-ablc
t:me drawn the attention of gav rnmcnt and its
officers t we are warran td -in laying, that the
treaty lately fan<3ipned by the executive of the U
uitcd States, and (hortljr tu be held with the Che
rokee Indians, will render it lUtionary at this
placj for fame monchs at lead. Whatever may
h*v« been the whifptr* of malevokrice refpeilin;;
the builder, truth will charge Mr. Ctti with no
ope violation of the laws, or the lead difrefpeift
to the constituted authorities of bis country; in
ancei have "occurred, in which he has been refuf
id privilege secured to citizens by the laws of
the union, and when the man, and not the mea
sure wasoppojid, he lusftrbntitte v.to thei jury
thqvigh he coniylain*d ijai;:ft the precedent.
HARRISSUKGH, March 18.
from a CorreJ^nldeat-
This ij ernph;tically the ajc of arroganrr,.
prtfump.ion Hit! hypocrisy. VVe not only i*c
jedl.a divine fnperiiitendance in human affairs, I
i'peak of oorlelvcs in jhc most extravagant '
Lrt'd iulfome style of panegyric. In a Angle
d fpatch from a fans culottr general, are lavjfh
ed more epithets of good, just, brave, generous,
virtuous, humane and patriotic, than would
have fuffieed in former times, for an hiftoricil
volu:ne, or are to be found in the whole com
m ctaj-ic? of Capiat If we btlieve tiiemfelvea,
(the poor priells and excepted) the
modern French arc wholly made, ng.ofj philflfp
phett, heroes and philanthropes. Tfieri th£re
js forjjething so captivating in their diil!ort, and
so graceful and energetic in their m inner of us- j
ing their interjeflions, Well! Oh ! Ah 1 and
Hah ! —Take the following exarnpUa from the
proclamation of the d.re&ory 1
if Well I it is in the glare of these circumftaij
ces, tlutthc cabinet of St. James's —Ah 1 too
long fnice, that perfidious cabinet. —-Oh 1 to en
flame our warri.irs.—Hah ! patriots have but
one interffl. All this ahikg and HaHinQ may
be very pretty in French, and very eloqlient too,
byt it Joiitids fo.neMiat uncouthly to a mere ;
Engl'.fn ear ; and howeverfublime it may really
be, ! cannot bpt think, that a feiv Itjllres ago, it
would ha v"e Wen thought to favour a little of the
bonibafiic and ridiculous, in charity,however,
to many w ell difpo'ffd pcrfilns, Who are yet ii -
fatuated by an unb.rtmiaie p«!T.on for this feduc
i.ig lepu'jlT, I am inrjined to believe, that thty
cf.ifti f.:;d Occ-Jtcii :o -lulh for fheir rr.iftrcfs. j
"~NE \V-THEAI'RVi"
Mr. Harwoods Night.
TO-MORROW EVENING, April 7}
\V ill he printed, a 7<rao"Dt, in 3 ads, called,
The WIDOW OF MALABAR,*
Raymond, nir M.<r(hall-^A"iert, ror Fox—
Chief Bramir., nir Britain nip
Warrell—Young Urjniln. r r Feungll—Nnrrl *ti,
fin.ii.in Cfeiel ) mr Warrell, ju i.
Irtdiraora, mri Merry—Fatima, mi r sL'Eftfatig$ t
End of tb • Tragredj^
«' DASH O^—KEEP MOVING," •
AnEpiioga'J, ia the chara&.r of Young Rapid,
By' Mr. B**n*rd,
To which will be added (nev-r par£orn*rd lifrc)
a CoMtor, in two acts', called,
THE HUMORIST }
Or, WHO'S IV HO *
Sir Anthony H.Afwic. flirF/ancii—FroTlc, mr
Warred—rßlUOf, mr BlifTett—Beaumont, mrFcjj.
—William, mtT Warre'.l—Dabble-, mi tiunooi .
Mrs Mattador, mrs Oidr.:ixor.—Diana, mis»
L'Eftrauge—Jenny, mrs Do&q.—Mrs
Ssrs Francis
Between the Comedies,
A Dijfertation on Hobby Hsrfes,
?J. Mr. Bernard
The Soldier's Hobby The Hobby
The Beaux's Hobby- .-The Ladies' Hobby
The Fidlcr's Hobby—-—The Mamger's Hobby
Mr. Morris's Hobby .And Hi* jwn Il'j'oby
After which, a favorite Farce (never
here) iji two ails, called,
TH§ WANDERING JEW j
Or, LOPE'S MAS&I7ERADR,
Sir Solomon Swall nV, mi Warren-*-Ma)or At*
all, mr Marrall, nirHardingt
—Toby, mr mrWarrell—Porter,
mr meCis Lavancy, Liif 'rtT,
&c.
Lady SwaTw, mrs OklrabfOn —Camilla, mr*
Marfhill—Lydia, roift L'J£ltranee»-Sufaa, mr*
Pooler.
Tickit6 to be had at '.ha ufuil places, ai»4of ijF
Harwood, No. Zq, Noith liighth ftrept,
On Morday Evening (by defirs) and for
the last time thiafeafon, COE<Ui»ißUo«,vvi:h En
tertainments.
%"* Mr, Mo*ais'a Night tftll be on WstJ" 6^
Ha)' next.
Footman & Co's. Aublion Stgrf,
TO-MORROW MORNING,
At |0 o ? clpck, at Fqot man Us Co's. iVu^ioq
Win. ua SOL'jt, FOR CASH,
10 pipes Coniac Brandy
3 ditto l.ifton Wine
5 ditto Teaeriffe ditto
A few hh is. Alrnohds
3500 doz. Port Wine Bottlet
6 hhds. Weft-India Rum
A few boxes R.iiiins
A quantity »f Corks and Hair Powder
And sundry other Groceries
FOOTMAN & Ce, A u a'ru
april 6
Valuable Stands for Bufmefs.
FOR the Sulfcriler,
Two Lots of Ground,
Situate on the foot!) fide of Chcfnut-ftreet, be.
tweea Second and '1 bird streets ; —o«e containing
eighteen feet, and the other fevente n feet, more op
ess, on the said street, ajjd both extending, t!»
If'me'V.readth, one hundred and forty-e.glrt, moi»
or less, to Carter's alley,
There are, on Chefnut-ftrect, two two-ft or y
BRICK HOUSES
(Numbers 8c and 8»)
Which may rcaijity he made into one 5 and, 04
Carter's alley, there is a coijTenifnt, well bilil*
thrce-ftory
Brick House and Kitchen,
Almost new, which has two rooms on 4 floor
and a front of eighteen feet on said alley.
This property is c]e»r of ground-rent, gpd as
indisputable title will be giyen to thf purch»fe/.
The three Hgufcs will be fold I'eparately or toge.
th*r- m
Further particulars may b< known op applies,
tion to
ZACHARUH PQULSQN, , VK .
No. 80, CWnut-ilreet, or at the Library,
march 53. ' fißw
The Subjirilen haye For Sa/r t
The following GOOD 3, viz,
Hed and blue Bcni^2°^ e li*aik*.rc})Kts
Fantipofo rio.
Siutromal jjd f
Doreas. ""J
cfconf MU3LtNS
Book J %
Hummums
Coarfc itriped cotton Cloths
Elack and other coloured Indian Taffi'rit*
l)o. t!o. i, 4i>.
If lack and whits Chiftefe St , ins
Blac and whits do,
Heavy black Pepp.er
IfiagiitjV
afforted
Old iMadeira Wine
Port 4>.
ishj?i ry do. m quarter cafifj
Claret in cases - " .
Holland Gin Tn pipes
F-nglifii Perry j
An iron Cafe ,
PHILIPS, CRAMOND y Co.
m?rch ?1. -t
S ALI I'El RE.
One hundred kegs of refined Salt Petre,
For Sale by the Subfcri'bers.
James C. Vf Samuel IV. Fi/ier,
No. 13, Arch Street
march 3 1 4tawtf
FOR SALE, .
At No. 149, Sou'h Fr nt-flreet,
Malaga Wine in hhds. and aft
calks
Mountain do. in qr.
Colemenrr do. in do.
A few kegs frefl* Raisins
ai.so,
A few packages of Calcutta Goods-*
Confitting of
Humhums
Tiekcry
Patoa Chintz
Persians, biack and coloured
Saudanna#, Choppa RomaU, Barher ro
Pullicat Handkerchiefs
apri! a. *3t
* For Sale,
A CONVENIENT well built second hand Light
Wagiioa. hung on Jacks with glaff.s an 4
' blind' in the door,, with or without harness.-a,
' j Enquire of Peer Umerickhoufe, Arch, belovy
Sixth street, or tjx fab crHierin Oermantown.
CASPAR W, HAINES,
! april »©
JUST RECEIVED, S
T ROM *O R T-A U-P XIN Ct, r |
/OA! SALE, by the SUBSCRICSRS,
11 o hhds. Coffee I en
46 tierce* do.
100 barrels do.
100 bags do
no iioglheadsof Muscovado Sugar
80 barrels of do.
40 hogfbeads of Molasses ' u
4 W.les of Cotton r ' j;
a of Coco? .
WILLINGS W FRANCIS, ™
Penn-ftrect.
march I». §
For sale, c<
by the sußsCß'Bim, No. 11, Penn-ftreet, foi
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
CmUJUng of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Coffee* Punjum Cloths p s
Sanahf Guzzey do.
Humhums Charconna Dore* I\
Blue Clrth Tanjibs on
Chintz and Calicoes Nfulmuls T1
Mamoodys Checks lei
Maharagongcs l>at<ia Hkfs.
Ginghams Mulniui dor. hi
Guzzenat, Bandannoes an
Gutrah's Siflerfoy 1
Piiiiafeoes Choppa Romals
Sooiy do. e
Gillie Ro«iuU Perfuns of various col. "
Meek Pulicats
1 oo tons SUGAR
,®,ooolb PEPPER. ™
Willings y Francis. fa ,
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to tale at that
tonimodious ilore the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-flreets. m
Alfo —A few Balesof Marlrafs Hkfs. ofele- so
gant patterns and best colour*. c f,
February 8. dtf D
A Bargain.
A quantity of Window Glass
of different fixes, at a very large -
discount from the sterling cost. If thu Glass is
not difpefed of before the jtS of April, it will be
Clipped from ihisport.
For terms apply to No. 89, South Third-llrcet. jr
march a 6. §' w ol
< I ■ - ... . . ■ • m- __
THE PARTNERSHIP OF
WELLS fcf MORRIS,
HAVING expired on the nth February last,
all periods having demands the laid
Partnerlhip, are requeued ti/turnift their accounts
for fettltment.; aAd those inHettei to the fame, to
make immediate payment to the fubferiber.
GIDEON H. WfcLLS.
K. B. The business will be tarried on as hereto-
by the fuMsribsr, at hjl Store, No. IJ5> Mar
ket-Srcet. iw h
NOTICE. p
rpHREE Certificates of Si* Per Cent. Deferred "
a Debt of the United State* of the following »'
isfcription, viz —fco. 10033, 10034. and J0035,
for ctjZQ dollarsaach, dated Bth May, 1797. ahd "
ftan.'lng on the booki if tiw Treasury of.the Uni
te.lßt.ues, iii the nime of Benjamin Waddmgton, "
of Lanover Houfe,near vbirgavenney in England, >
Esq. have been lo'ft by the capture of the ffiip liac- F
rnu=, from hence to London, in Jqfte last.—Ton,
th*refo;e sotifies those whoai it may. concern, that
-m >v»ll be hiad? at the *1 reafary of the L- I
jyitcdState? for a renewal ol the lame-
Wadding on Harwood.
m n reh 1X S -,w '
r term of Co-pa/tnerihip between the full- >
L I'crLbers', trading under tlw firm of John Mil- 1
lcr, jus.and Co. expire this day, and. by mutual !
coiifcot will not be renewed- The debts ard con- j
c«rn»of the fame will.be fettled by John Miller, i
Tun. to whom all thofc to the P' c>ri nerfhip 9
are earnestly requefled to malie payment to, with» !
out delay.
TOHN MILLER, Jfiirt, ;
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
February <<)
LANDING,
From on board the Skip Sallv, from
Calcutta,
AND ro* SALE BY THE SUBSCRIBI*,
1600 bag'? prime Sugar,
800 do. Girj-r
30 tales low priced piece Goods.
Jt)hn Miller, Jun.
nmrch 3
' FOR SALE, bt
John Miller, jun.
No. 8, Chefnut-ttreet,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
—AMONGST wilYcH ARI
Gurrah9 • Mameodiei
Bafta# Sannas
Guzzenas ' 1 atida Ccffaej
, Guzzies Emercics
Blue Cloths Calic»es
PalainpoorJ Romall Handkerchiefs
/moHgft'bcm *re a great proportion ofthenia
nufaflures of Pat Ha.
British Dry Goods,
ALSO,
Forty puncheons of high proof Hum.
February 19 " 1—
~A/ex. J. Miller W 5 James Davis,
llavine entered into partuerfhip under thefirm of
Alexander J. Miller hf Co.
INFO3.M tkeir.friendsin town and country, that
th< y have opened a Whoiefale Dry Good Store,
at No. South Frent S/reet, Philadelphia ; whera
they now have, and iwteiul kcteping a general as.
fjjtmcnt of Uft.T, Benin*, Irijh, French and Sri _
tijb MantifaAures [ot ftle, on adian agtous tern-.t
for cafli or alhort crcait.
February 19 §"
LANDING
From on board the Schooner Ranger, from
jAcgytMEit
200 Bags, containing 30,000 wt. Coffee,
for Sale fy
SAMUEL HAYS,
No. xi? Cbefnut-fheet.
Who has remaining on har.U 6, 00 pieces In
dia NANKEENS, ofa fupenor quality.
March I?. <i6t
' Prison Manufaftory.
FOR S.U.Z,
At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of all sizes, trom jdy to lody
Plonring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Log-vcod
MioSmakets and Sailers Thread
A ir„_sa\ved Marble, suitable for carrier's tables,
tomb and head Hones, hearth's, chimney pieces,
platforms, slabs, facia, window fills, e .
Ail which may he had on reafonabl.; terms,
Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders from a diilance, iireSed to Daniel The-
B-as. for the prifon,Viil be attended to.
December »6. nuh£ra
Schuylkill permanent Bridge. In
THE fuhferibers Cummiffioners appointed by
in a of allembiy of this Commonwealth,
enti'led "An a eft to authorize the Governor ol T;
" this Commonwealth to incorporate a company A.
•' for erc(fting a permanunt bridge over the river En
" Schuylkill, at or near the city of Philadelphia, gei
hcrehy give notice, that Books are provided as the as
• law direfts ; and thit we will proceed to receive wt
fubferiptions for 'he Company Stock, on the ninth inj
day of Aprit next, at the Ci*y Hall, in the city of
Philadelphia. The fubferiptions will be recciva J BV
from ten o'clock in the morning till two o'clock, ny
P.M. of that day ; and the books will continue co
open during those hours of succeeding days, until th
the number, required by the said law to enable the . .w]
Commiflioners to certify the fame to the Governor ob
for ineo-poratins; the Stockholders, be subscribed
P KICHARD PETERS, a
JOHN PEROT, n
GODFREY HAGA,
Matthew m'connel, l
WILLIAM SHEAFF.
Philadelphia* 19th March, a7~3 awtl 'l s a J
Ran away from the fubferiber, n
on the 14th inft. two indenteil Irifli Servant Men:
Thomas M'Guire, about 15 years of age, and J an
feet 8 inches high, robaft, flout, and well made,
Ihort black hair, remarkabls for a fear on one of b: >
his temples; he is a forward, deceitful, vicious, "
and unprincipled fellow, and decoyed from my
service Jeffry Corbet, about the fame age and |
height, but of a milder disposition, and more flen- v
der make, Ihort brown hair ; their Working appa- ' v
relwas bhie cloth over jackets, lined witii coarse b£
lm«n, check and brown licen fnirt*, grry
yarn (lockings, hti*ed twilled grey cloth trowiers,
and ruffett leather fiioes; they have other tloalhi«g
which altogether gives them the appearance of fea
faring men, l ~ut have been, brought up to the (arm
ing business ; no doubt will have forged passes and
change their names and apparel as convenient, and
have taken the poll road so Philapelph-.a, I pur
chased them thelaft fall of capt. Rollins, in Balti
more. I will jive Fifty Dollars for securing th»m a|
so that 1 get them, and will pay all reasonable
charges if trough? home, or if separated, Thirty
Dollars for Thomas, and Twenty for Jeffry.
ARTHUR j3RYAN,
Head of Wye, TalbotCounty—MaTch7.
march 14. » 3awjw
TO RENT,
A good tbree story House, A
TWO rooms on each floor, With a convenient
Kitchen—in Front, near South-flreet. Enquire
of the Printer. march .V-w;vv
. PROPOSAL,
For Puilijh'tng by Subfcriplion,
AN
E N I R Y
INTO THE
ORIGIOF EPIDF.MTE DISEASES. ;
Letters to Dr. Currie, which I pubiiihed
X lad autumn, led me to an invelligation of
the origin and pheooniena of peijilantial diseases
in other countries, as well as in the United St tes.
In the p.rof< cution of the fubjea, new fads ami j
principles continually opined to «iy view, arid fi
nally determined me to trace back the hitlory of
such diseases as >9 the records of. hiflory e<-
tcind. For this purpose, I have examined the pub
lic libraries in New-Yolk, NeW-Haveu, Cam
bridge ami .BAflbn, with a viiW to obtain all the
materia] fails which can illiiffratt the ftitj <ist,and
I have nearly, crflledfed all tU: materials for the ]
propof;d work. ...
Tile lails eell'eifted will enable me to derion
firate tint many of thi comnton id.-as refpeiling
pcftilentiM epideHMCs, are anl'durtata of extreme
ly inforreil ; and this in conf.*vju«nce of medical
writers cijpftderingan epidemic dileafe as a dctdch
e4 or il'olated phenomenon in a particular coun
try; rather than as coiineiScil wfth othrt epido J
■ o-ics or other J>hen6fiiena of nature in virioUs
■ parts of tfit wof'icl. The fa<fts I have collcfled
1 lead to which are flitprifing to .
■ juyfeli, arvd frhM l w W probably be new to many
, others. Much light will be thrown on this dark
, and p< rplexing Tunjefl, as well as on natiiral phi- .
- 1 lofophy.
Tl;e proposed work will make a fuil-Gzed oSa
vo volume ; and executed well on fine paper, can
not be afforded at.lets than two dollars, bound, .
with the usual allowance to book-fellers. As th*
. compilation will coll not only great labor, but con
siderable expellee, no more copies will be printed
than to supply fubrcribers. The book will be rea
-1 dy for fubferibers early in the coming summer.and
the holders of proposals will be good enough to
return them to No. 40, Pine-ftrect, by the firftofl
May, !
Subscriptions received by thebotk-fellers in I
New-York, Philadelphia, Albany, New-Haven,'
Hartford, New-London, Providence, Boston, Bal-;
timore and Charlefto».
NOAH WEBSTER, jun.
march 18.
7ujl received, and for Sale at theßookJbre of
WILLIAM YOUNG;
N.o. 5 a South Second-flreet.
> A COMPLETE HISTORY OF
CONNECTICUT,
Clt'lL A«b ECCLESIASTICAL,
Fiotn the emigration of its firft planters from En
gland in 1630, to 1713-
By BENJAMIN TRUMBULL, d. b;
; VOLUME T.
J- Embelliflied with a correfl Map of the State, and
Portraits of fotne of the firft settlers, from origi
nal paintings.
match 15. t«o3w
New-Tori, February, 1798.
PiJO/'O.S^Z.JByGEORGEFORMAN,
TOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A New and Valuable Work, which has been es
tant only lix m -nths—entitled
PROOFSof a CONSPIRACY against
all the Religions and Governments of EU
e. KOPE, carried on in the secret meetings of Free
" Masons, Illunrtinati, and Reading Societies. C®l
- leCted from good authorities
By JOHN ROBISON, a. M.
' f Frtfejfvr of -Natural Pbilofoftby, and Secretary to tie
Royal Society as F.dinhvrgb.
£s* THIS work will he put to press as soon as
i)m 4:0 j fubferibers are obtained,andno money requir
ed until the work is completed.—lc fliall be print
ed with an elegant new type, and on paper of fu
:e, perior quality, which will cofr.prifa about 400
pages neat o.'-lavo, handfomcly bound and lettered
—the price will be one dollar and fifty cents.
Those who procure n fubferibers. ar.dbecoml!
j accountable, (Ml have a r.3th gratis—and the u
n" fual allowance to boekfellers.
l'nr above woik comes frtm thepen/of J,
Robifon, cf F.c'inborongh, a gentleman in high
eft.mation fn the literary world—the fa<9s therein
recorded are well fubflantiatecf, thereafoning
and argumcn:s thence deduced, while fhey
,eU vcr the found judgment and jienttration of the
writer, are calculated to amnle »s well a* to in
(lrudF. A scene of villainy 19 developed by the
author fulFiciant to appal the llouteft heart—The
danger to be apprehended from secret societies is
cleaily pointed out j the degeneracy of human r»-
es, ture awfully illuftiated, a.*d the hazard of every
es, deviation !r«m the straight path of religion and
of virtue, incontellibly proved both to the politi
cian and the chriftiau by flubbofn and incontro
at vertxble fafls.
Huiffripirons talen in by Ck Forman, 46,
e- IViitnm-firctt, c*pi>fitc tb? Pvfi-Office, and by tie refute
tive bocifccthr: in - ;~iu-\~*rh and FLilaJJphia,
February £3.
'interpreter 0/"Foreign 'Lifiqjfotogts. j
/OSEPH E G. M. de LA GRANGE,
Wtlout-flNo. no, I
BEING duly coMmissioned and sworn in the a
bore capacity, offers to trarftaie the French,
English, Spanifli, Portuguese a»id kalian Langua
ges : he flatters hitr.fc U that his for mot profeflion,
as advocate, both in France and St. Donliugo, hts
well nualified him to tranfhtc any Court proceed
ings or other Jud <sary inflrumcnt I *.
N- B. The FRENCH CIRCULATING LI
BRARY continues open at the above place. Ma
ny valuable additions having been made to this
collection, it confiltsnow of about 1500 volume*,
the bell adapted to answer the pnrpofe of thole
..who wifii both ro improve in the Language, and
obtain ufel'ul inftrudion and plcatcre.
i march 30. TiwTm
A Houle and Lot in Burlington.
FOR SALE,
AL'AR GP. can-.Moi'ioui two flgrr lirick House,
nai large Wftl improved Giiit)W ; with a
tar«e Clover l .ot, a {table, a Carriage House, and A
Spring HoufS, Sec- in the C.ty df Btu'hi^tflf 1 ,
Ncw-JtrtiJ. A
Thii property is allowed to be the mod healthy
and beautiful <if any in Burlington, having atront
of 360 feet upon tlie rivtr, and extending 108 feet ,\
back ; boUndedoti one fidejby Broarii-tlrtet, and on
the back by a wide a!le)>.
The honf; is in form of a fqirare, fr-n'ing 54
feet upon Broad T ftreet, and 5S upon the river,—
with a pump of water at the back door, belules
two fine (friot's rifirig out of th: beautiful bank
between the garden arid the river.
Fir particulars, apply at No. J, South Fourth-
ftrect, to '.
GEO. WALKER. A
Who hds also For Sale,
Lots in Washington City.
nfareh %i. § (
, JUST R&CEirED. "
And f<# tali by W.Young, corner of Second
and Chefnut-ffreet, M. Carey 11# Higb-ltreet -j,
T. Dobfon, 41, South Secuud-ftreet and the
Buokfellers generally,
(Price 5-ikhs of a Dollar.)
BEACON HILL,
A Local Poem, Krftoric and deCoriptivc 1
By a Lady of Be/lon.
A N A.L YS ISo f BOOK I.
Allusion to the furrouudirtg Profpecl—lnvocation
to, the River and fylv-in peities—to the Historic
Mufe—-Fi&ioiv difcarcted-—Dedication to Wafb- ,
ington—The Aition opens at the Retreat of the
Coliimliiansfroir. Bunkst's Hill—GeneralHowi
—The Memory of his Brother—Death of War
ren—Perfonification of Fcrtune and Faaie—
VVafiiingron at Mount Vernon—called to the 1
chief Command—Formation of th» Columbian
Camp at Cambridge—Natural, moral, or poli
tical Hi ft Or y of the feverrl States—Their com
ihandirtg Officers —Siege of Bolton—lts Suffer
ings—Negotiation for the fafe Retreat of thd
Britilh Army—lts Departure —Appointment of
Congrcf-—Declaration of Inuependente—Cha
racter of the Colutfthian Soldies—The Poet's
prophetic Apostrophe t4 the Progrefe of Free
don} througbeut the World. ,
march 30. §
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND frOR SALt At THIS titttCt,
(Prick 45 Cents)
Refledti6ns on Monroe's View
ofc rrfs thNbovr or rMk Extcutif't.,
Ai ptifelifted in the
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
tinder the ftgtiature of
SCIPIO,
' ?- \Xr-rTtt- r.f PrrjHrr h!r ':rl
to ihi French Fiction m thii Country bs lit Siltru,
I and the Motiixs */ Ofpojiiioit, (iftf.
niarcih 30. - .
Wanted,
' An adive, cleanly, induftriuui woman t« cook
" a«d do the bufirteft of the kitchfti. Such a one
will be allowed good wages, and .no other need ap
" ply.—inquire 6f the Printer.
- Fe'hraafy 7 §
« Notice is hereby given,
" HHHAT application w,ill be made for the renewal
® J. of a Certificate of a Share in the Bank of the
" United States, {landing In the name of the S-übfcri-
her, No. 5004, and dated July n, 1797 —the fame
0 having been loft.
,f JOHN GRAHAM.
_; march 5 S6w
" TO LET,
1-; And fnay he entered on immediately,
A good dry Store,
Tf.fee stories high, arid in an excellent Hand for
-i bnfiasfs. Apply to
'J Thomas & Jsfbva Fisher,
march 1. T § No. Dock-llreet.
t'reoi Teas.
Jujl Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
n ~ And For Sale, ly
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Compting House, No. 54, Chsi'nnt-ftreet,
ad AKD BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Coitiptirtg Houfc, Crooked billet wharf,
_ Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon,Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, afl®rted ; black and'ebloured Lttre
;s. firings and Sittins, Nankeein., Cassia, garden
and conntion Fans, fait in and luteftrihg-Umbrcllas,
./i whale-bone Sicks.
'Thft bavr also Ftt Salt,
Ell wide Prrtiahs, Bandanna HanikercTii-fij
ree French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes,
march 8. §
New-Tort, January 24, 1798
a, PROPOSALS
By Arondt \San Hook,
Proprietor ef the Reading Room ;
as For Publiihing by Subscription,
An Appeal to Impartial Posterity,
f O . Bv Madams Roland ;
i OO Wife of the Miniiler of the Interior in France,
red CONDITIONS.
These Tcarce arid very valuable Historical Me
me moirs, (which ran through two London edi
u- tions 111 a few months,J will be eomprifed in a
vols, oiflavo, of 4CO pages each.
J- They will be printed on fine paper and a new
gh type, aud delivered to Subscribers, neatly bound
e 'n and lettered; at 1 dollar and jo cents per vol
mg ume-ont third of the Subscription nnonsy fobe
paid on delivery of the firft volume—the re-
7 1 ® mainder wfcc'n the work iscompleat.
in- To Frinters, Booksellers, and others, who
' acquire Subscriptions, the usual allowance will
be inade.
J?" Suhfcription= are taken at the Readip*-
rv Rnom » No. 149, Water ftrfet— the Printinl
ind T 49. Pearl-flreet—and at the different
, ti . Pookftores in New-York - Also, by William
ro . Young, corner of Second and Chefnut flreet, and
the Editor of the Gazette of the United States
Philadelphia.
, a . As soon as a fufScient number of Subscribers
arc obtained, the work w.li he put to press, and
compleated with the utrrioft dispatch.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
i K.X.AOU MARdK 1,1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
r*. a r~\ c __/t"„,1 fiYiH dav of Tuly one tnouiind seven nunQrc(l3r»(j
' IN AhAflty! ng duties'on stamped Veltum, Parchment and Paper", and th«
, m etj-fe«n» De -»niber, one thouland frrcn hundred and entitled
of the duties imposed by the emi
-1!a « An A 1 1 mn-T Duties 011 Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper , that from and after the
firft d,.yof Jwly enfsing, the fevcral Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied »»d collec
ted throughout'the United Staus.
c every fltin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or flieet or piece of Paper, upon which Iball be
written or prinM* or dther of the inftrumcnt » or writings (olio wing—to wit :
An« Certificate of N»turalization, - - - - - 5
A Lirence to Certificate of the admillion,enrolment er regfftry of
artV Counfellor,'Solicitor, dvocate or Prodtor, in any Court of the
t'lut a Certificrte in any one of the Counts of tl • United States
Utr'cnt of the said Offieef, (lull i'o far as relates to the payment of the ;
duty aforelawL be a fUffit ient ad-.nifiion in all the Coi»rt» of the United
States so and every of thefaid offices.
, Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United States
' Vrx'ni t so. laitd» granu'd for military services) - - 4
A, J e 'e•rplifirtti-'" ar certlfitd C °V? ° ! an >' fjvh « ralU ° r k " erS Patent ' (,tX "
'cV lor granted for - - - i
v u „ , r p ir »v Rottcwry, or cCtlnondcntiff nono,- - I
'\" y 'itec-i't or discharge foror onaecountof anyLegacyleftby any Will or 0- i /
'L, tcttauientai-y i->!tr.anent, or for any flare or, part of a perioral eltate di
m!- 1 hv for. e ol any statute of diUrHmti.ns, other than to the Wife, Chil-
Y 'r,!iiid CyiUren of the person drreafed, the.amount whereoffliaU btf
■ S e ",hs^of ¥SS Dollars', and fnall not exceed the value of One Hun-
Vvlafthelitno'unt thereof stall exceed the value of Oiie Hundred Dollar, and
Dollar*, the of 1 j
sdrsiff' veffcl or a 5
SJi' the"United States to any fore,go port or place, when the sum for which
Insurance is mad'effiall not exceed'five hundred dolfors, " 2J
■<Vhen the fnirt rnftirfi fcaW exceed five hundred dol.ars, - • 1
hen tltc tura foevtr, that (kail pass the seal of *ny
ACy Exetnphficatton, of «h-« n« of the Clerk offuch Court to
lor The ufeStl or fo'me particuhr fUte, - 50 |
bill ling, '
tio'tl or contrU! made to or with the United States or any slate, or for their
cfotes and riot exefeding one hundred dollars, - J 10
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five ht.idwd Joliai s, i S
If above five hundred dollars >mJ »ot excetdmg one thousand dollars, 5 o
I'd. be payable at or within Cxty days,
bonds or noles (ball be fubjefl to only two filth pan, ot the duty
*lf abfisx "t u-e -md not exceeding one h *' nt, f ed ( | ol 'f, " j 4
If above one hundred dollars «nd Hot exceeding tive hundred dolUi 1 o
If above fivtt hundred dollars and not exceeding one thoufaml dellars, I 0
eflabliflvcd, or th'at may hereafter be eft.b-
A "thin rte'Un,ted St«es, other than the notos 0 uch of tHe fau
as shall agree to an annual compofuion, ol one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders relpefliveiy, according to
the following scale. - - " "
On all notes not exceedieg fifty dellars, for each dollar, -
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceed.ng one hundred dollars JO
Cn a,H notes above one hundred dellars and not exceeding five hundred
dollats, ■ »' ' * , h " * " \
On all notes abo*e five hsndred dollars,
Anv ProteH dr other NotHrial - - " *. ... 2 *
Any Ltttet of Attorney, except for an invalid penfioa, or to Abtaiii or fell War
rant. for Land granted by the United Statw as bounty for militttry services
performed in the late war* - . - " . Z!
Any Certificate or Deb.nture for drawback of Customs or duties, for ltis than
five hundred dollars, - - " r , * \
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars,
For nibrc than tvfo thousand dollars, - * 3
Afrf note or bill of lading for goods or merchihdize to be e*potted, _
If from one diftri& to another diftria of the United States, not being M the ,
f»tiVe State, - ~ * " TO
If from the United Stites to any foreign port or place, - - J5
Anv Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effstfts, mjde vifff
t . ' c nft fjnu',lbi\ i» rah'i n f gnnfla md rliiftfj- tiiHrmnetl tc)r
Kent or laxts, and roods tikefl in virtue of any legal procels hy any officer,) JO
Any Certificate of a Share in any lirfrranee Company, of a share in the Sank of
the Uhlted State*, or of any State or othtr Bank,
If above twenty dollars and tot exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars, - 2 5
. If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
[ 11.
The dutiesaforelaid will be colleilcd and r.ceived by the •'upevvifors, Infpefiors aud other Oflrccrs
of [nfpe&ion, in the several Diftrids, Surveyo and DiviSans of the United States, and by such othtr
" pcrfons aa (half from t» time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Ditlrids for
that pvfrpofe.
1; r m.
e The Supervif»rs of the several Diftrids will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and a* soon ts
- may be pradicable, mark or stamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcel* of Vellum, Parch
e; mejit or Paptr, witU any cf the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment cf the said duties ;Or
flamped vellum, parchment and paper n.a\ at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained -it the fates preferred by law, Vy application to any Supervilor, Infpsitor, Officer of Infpedion,
or other ptrrfcm appointed for the diftributioli of Staihps, by the Supervisors of Diftritls
GIVEN under vty Haud, at Philadelphia
'theday etr/dyear nhovementitned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March ip. Secretary of the Treajury.
FOR SALE,
By WHARTON fcf LEWIS,
No. 115 South Front Street.
A quantity of Tanner's Oil,
4th ■proof Jamaiciißum, "> entitled to
ift and 3d pro&f Brandy, j dtawback.
Wine,-
Juniper Barries, &c. &c.
Feb. 9. _ eod'.f
NO T ICE.
ALL persons who have any demands sgaitrft
the estate of V/.lit,am Flr«twood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are requ-efied to exkibit-tlieir accounts,
property attested i and those who are indebted
to tfie fame, ate defined to make immediate
pdymerft, ti» '
GEOV'fIOfcSON, },, . ,
No. 15, So. Third-ftrect. ) " n ""'f lr r
Tar.uarv 4. dtf
just Published,
Andto be'ha'd at'tlfc Bodk-fttores of MelTr«. Dob
son, Cxmtbsll, Yoonc and Ormrod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Csules and Cure of Remitting »r Bilious
Fevers.
To rvlicb is annexed,
AN ABSTRACT ef the op : .hion« and pra&ieeof
differed author}: and an APfENDJX, exhib
iting intcreftingl'afls.and refleflions relative to
the Xyn'jchtis Ifs.-raid.-i, or Yellow Fever, which
has occafijned so much diftrefa and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the seaport
towns of the United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felow of the Philadelphia College of
and Member American Philosophical So
ciety. Feb. I—*3m§
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the 20th
inft. Tickets for Sale in tins Lottery, at
Sfueti Dollars, at Wm, BLACKBURN*9 Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, Sonth Secood-ftreet
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
DMirs, where check books are kept lor ragider
ing and examining in these, the City of Walhing
ton, No.-ll.and Pattsrfon Lotteries, and informa
tion whsre ticket* may be had in trteftjjf the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States .of the
Union.
N. B. Thel)«finefsef a Broker, inbuyingand
fellirg afl kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcoj siting Bill? and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, tloufes, &e.&c. will be duly attended to,
b y WM. BLACKBURN.
Novcm'j«r 15. j
Salisbury Estate,
THE Subscriber, proposing to contra# hij busi
ness, offers this Estate for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreiog Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pan of (lonea ; aI To a good Forge, all
perse& repair,as arc allthe Water Works connefi
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnace*
were lately buik tor the purpose of casting Cannon
for tl:i* State. —There are about two thou fend acres
of Lend, one-half of which is under wood, the other
very* fiite arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Pasture. The Cannon lately manrifa&wred there,
tally proves tfie excellency of the metal, which is
fufperior to any in this country, and probably, eq«al
to any in the world ; for not one of sixty-nine guns
lately made, aUl\ov>gh fomeofthe24 were bored
into 32 pounders, ha-ve failed on proving. The fitu
fction is very eligible, particularly far this breach of .
manufaflure, and a place of arms lying in the stale
of Conne&icut.and only 30 mi Ires from leveral land-*
ings on the Hudson's river,and having every advan
tage that can result front a plenty of waier iffuirtjj
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
Ufefiil purposes. The purchaser can beaccommodat
ed w-ith all the stock. and utensils, and have poffeflion
onor before the firft of Jurifc next,-and preparation
may be madein the mean time for goinginto B)aft im-!
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
in order, witfe Tome coal, Ore, ticc. &c. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia ; David Brooks, Esq. one of the Ueprcfentat-ivei
in Congress Tor this State ; Mr, David Waterman, on
the premies, or to the proprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NKILSOW
Dee. t. gawtf
NOTICE'.
ManufiSsry of yclloiu and delft mare,
Such as Hcvcr wai in this Country before, has been
been lately eroSed at Tivoli, Red Hook Landing,
onthe Euft Bsnk of Hudson's River, flats of NewJ
York, where any article of various forts'and fiiapcs
may be executed, as well as earibcrti itoves upon a
new conlUu&ioa, that saves three fourths of the fuel
commonly used in call iron (loves or open diymniesj
they aiebefidesvery wholefcme and ornamental, by
applying to
J. MOUCHET,
Wanted a fkillful hand to attend to thr baking add
glazing part of the (aid ware. Generous appoint
ments will be given. Apply asabnve, or to
DAVID CROOKS, Esq.
No. 71 South jtli Street.
Feb. 19. ' eod4W
Wanted,, to Hire, '
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a generotis
rent wilt be given; to be taken for a year, or on
more for a longer lerm. Iprmireof the Ttinter,
05. 17. ' clt f