of Daily Advetitstfi
NomSEX 1676. j
Custom-House Sales.
Philadelphia, January IJ, 179®- 1
ON Monday, the 29th of January, 1798, at t®.
o'clock, will be fold by public auction, at the
Custom-House, in pyrf||?nce of the laws ia that cafe
made and prpvided, the following articles of mer
chandize haviag been Sored more than niae months
and t>o[tclaimed by the owners erconfignee* thereof;
yrbich articles may be viewed during tht space of
three dajs antecedent to the day of sale, between the
hours ot nine and two o'clock.
FCP Two cases, containing Woollen Hats
M p C One cale, containing Book* and Pamphlets
R P Three cadi, containing Girth Web
(DU) One ca&, containing Spades and Shoveli
W
W Four calks, containing Garden Seeds, Peas
P and Beans
IS One keg of Red Lead]
<t> WC One crate of Earthen Ware
BTlyt Two do. dr>.
WL One do and two cases containing Images and
O'saments for building
[No mark] Two Hampers of Bottled Porter
P Eight Hampers of Empty Bottles
, W B Ooe calk of Bottled Porter
Tho's Stephens One bundle, containing piece* qf
Music
Mr. Scott. One box containing 014 Paraphleu
Mr" Auoley One box of Pamphlets
W A Three pipes Madeira Wine
W L P One box of Pew'«r Lamps
V
B One box containing Brushes
G. Bolland. One c«ik containing a|cbeefe and fame
pstmeal
yR. Oneerate of Earthen Ware
R. it, One crate of Earthen Ware.
J an , 13 * tla
Marlbal's S^les.
United States, 7 ir
Pennjylvania D'tftrid. Jf M '
, V T O riCE is hereby given, that in pursuance of
X\ rp Bjc direS.H, by the Hon. Richard
Peters, Esq. Judge of the Diftrifl Court of the
United States, in and for the Pennsylvania Dif-
wiU be ejtpofed to Public Sale at the Custom
house, en Monday, the 19th day of January inft.
at 11 o'clock at noon,
i bpx of Sugar
1 bags of Coffee
1 barrel,
I ha|f barrel, and > of Lime*
I tub J
a jars of Honey
»6 Pin/; Apples
a kegJ of Spirit*
I keg of Sugar, and
J barrel* and ope half barrel of Sugar
The fame having been libelled against, profe
cmted and condemned as forfeited, is the said
Court.—by
WILLIAM NIGHOLS, Marjhal.
Marfcal's Office, \
January, j 19— dtiqht
Philadelphia & Lancaster Turn
pike Company.
January 4, 1798.
Xfa meeting of the Prefidsnt and Managers,
this day, a dividend sf 5 dollars per Jhare <was
declared f*r the laji half year, luhieh will be by
them Ltlai#nlTrJ*r the pajnvnt qf.tbe debts:
the Coihpewy, agreeable toa reJolatt»n-fft#rStort-"
folders the ntb June la/I.
TENCH FRANCIS, Treajurer
Of the LancafierTurnpikeCom'py.
January % m&W.c
To be Exchanged For
Brityh, German, or India Goads,
is the package;
A trad of valuable Land
In Lycotning, joining that of the Hdilatld co.
and containing io,qoo Ace'-
Inquire of the Printer.
Jan: I§
Just Published,
And to be had at the Book-stores of. Messrs. Dob
son, Campbell, Yodng and Okmroo,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Cause* and Cure of Remitting or Bilious
Feyers.
To which is annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and pradice of
different authors: and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interesting fait* and refle&ions relative to
the Synocbus lUeroides, or Yellow Fever, which
ha* occasioned so much diftrefaand mortality, at
different periods, m fe vef a| of the seaport towns
of the United States of America.
- by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Fellow of the Philadelphia College of Physicians,
and Member of the American Philosophical So
ciety, &c.
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, propoGng to cootra®- hi« busi
ness, offers this Estate for sale, on moderate
lerjtts. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of stones ; also a good Forge, all
ip peffeft 1 repair, as are all the Water Works conne£t
jed with thefc various branches. The Air Furnaces
yrere lately huilt for the purpofc of casting Cannon
for this State. —There are about two thousand acres
of Land, onebaJf of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Failure. The Cannon lately mannfaftured there,
fujlly proves the excellency of the metal, which is-
Superior to any in this country, and probably, equal
so any in the world ; for not o*ie of fixty-nioe guns
lately mjde f although some of the 24 were bored
into 32 pounders, have failfd on proving. The fun
ction is very eligible, particularly for this branch ot
fnanufafture, and a place of arms lying in the state
of Connc£icut,and only 30 miles from several land •
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water ifluing
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
?nd wftich may be converted iqto a variety of other
uieful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with the ftoek and utensils, and have poftcflion
on or before the firft of June next, and preparation
fnay be made in the meantime for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, lor every part will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. &c. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, Esq. one of tlie Representatives
i<k Congress for tbis State ; Mr, David Waterman, on
the premiles, or to lhep»ooiiecor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dae. i. 3*wtf
FOR SALE,
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Inclading JUpug Primer, abopt 403 weight, in
good condition, and would atifwer the purpose of
a cquntfy printer a* well as new.
Enquire of the Printer. boy. 30.
.. . . 1
PHIL AD E L P*H 1A .. TUESDAY EVENING, JAhUARY 23, 1798.
Public Sale of Real Estates.
On THURSDAY Evening, the 15th of
February next, will be exposed to Public Sale,
at the Merchants' Coffee-houfe in Second-street,
at 6 o'clock in tke evening, the following
ESTATES.
No. 1. A two story brick Houle, with * two
story frame Buildings, on a lot to feet front and
100 fe*t deep ; also, a vaoant Lot of 40 feet square,
with the privilege of so alley go thereto. Thij
interest hat lately been I't for »oo dollars per an
num, and is situated m- -Chriftkn-ftrent, W-wren
Front and Second-itrdHf, the second house from
Mr. Caleb AshY
No. ». A three story brick House, situate at
the north east corner of Chefnut flreets, being 14
feet 00 Second-street, and to f«et on Chefnut- j
street, now in the tenure of Mr. Morange, at the
yearly rent of 400 dollars, and is deemed one of
the best Hands for the file of dry goods in this city.
No. 3. A handsome well finished three story
brick House, zo feet front and 10® feet deep, situ
ate in FiCth-ftreet, between Market and Arch
tlreets, No. 40. This house is built and finifhed
in the modern style, is in complete repair, with
double cellars under the whole. Thei eis a ciflern
of rain water in the yard ; and the house is at pre
fert let for 600 iollaTs per annum with the taxes.
No. 4. A three story brick House, situate
Plumb-street, between Second and Third tlreet,
being so feet front and 13* feet deep, at present
occupied by Robert Kenny.
No. 5. A three story brick House, on the bank
fide of Fro»«-ftreet, No. 171 North, going thro'
to Water-Areet, where it is five story. It is 19
feet,front and 48 feet deep, «i> complite repair',
and it rented for 600 dollars per annum.
The conditions of Sale are, one quarter «ash,
one quarter in 6 months, one quarter in 9 months,
and anequarter in IS months.
Philadelphia, fan. IS. 1798. 3awtlsP
To be x fold,
An F.LEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acret and 40 yeyskts, witlt a Beat two
story brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, fcc. fiioate on the Irish tra<s lane, in the
township of Moyamenfing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon »ppiication at the office ps
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for tafle and
elegance, stand unrivalled.
December I. dtf
The Subscriber intends to make
application for the renewal of a Certificate of a Share
in the Bank of the United States, (landing in the name
of A. B. N0.5004, -dated July 11, i797> amc
having been loft. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. I*
ROSS SIMSON,
HATE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a qvantk,y of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, > RUM;
and Bengal J
300 casks RICE, rnd
A parcel of ship building RED CEDAR. 1
Ofl. 27.
Chocolate and Mustard,
I *Wa fupcrior qusrtry msnrofaftsretf,
GINGER and Pepper, ground ; ihelletj or
pearl Barley; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
Ale and Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Ale ;
London Porter ; red, Port and Lilbon Wine,
Hiitable for exportation or heme consumption.
The highest pi ice given for Mustard-Seed.
Also forfale, A quantity of Bocking and
common Baizes, a variety of colors ; a bale of
Fustians, Shawl?, &c, for sale by
JOHN HA WORTH,
No. 98, south Front-street.
not'. 27. m.&th.t.ij.
Canal Lottery--—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, thezoth
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-street
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Tea
Dollars, where check books are kept lor register
ing and examining infhefe, the City of Walhing
ton, No.II. and Paterfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in mod of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The bufinef* of a Broke*, in buying atld
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcounthg Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Laods, Houses, &c. &c. will be duly attended to,
by Wm. BLACKBURN.
( november 15. $
MUSIC.
J. L. LENZ,
Teacher oi Vocal and inftrumeotal Music,
RETURNS hisfincere thanks to the Ladies and
Gentlemen, from whom he received a very
. liberal encouragement since his residence in this ci
, ty, and refpe&fully informs his friends and the pub
lie generally, that, in conference of the rsqueft
I of feme of his friends, he has opened a Musical
School at his house in Spruce Street No 174, where
1 he will teach on the Piano forte, Violin &c. &c »
1 He deems it unneceflary to enlarge upon the ad
• vantages the learner will derive frpn. an inftituti
on of this kind; he will only fay, that, attention
1 and zeal are much excited in at) assembly, where
' numbers are in pursuit of the fame ohjeit. His
' arrangement is such, that an interference of the
the different fcxet will be avoided. Those Ladies
andGentlemtn who cannot make it convenient to
attend at his school, be will wait upon at their
hoJfes. Apj locations will be thankfully receiv
ed at hit houft, where his terms and further parti
, culars may be known.
Dec. 7. *lweod
NOTICE.
ALL perfotw concerned are hereby notified,
that the frbferiber intends to apply for a re
newal of the undermentiohed loft certificates of
Stock in the Bank of the United States—He for
warded them under cover of a letter addressed to
John Aniley.of London, by the ship Bacchus, capt.
George, which left fhis port in June but for Lon
don. But that ship having been captured on her
passage and fcnt>ta France, the above letter ;«id in
clofures have failed iu their deftinatiou.
Three Certificates, viz.
Nos. 26325, 26326, 26327, each for
four (hares, dated January I ft, 1797, and
issued in the name of Henry Grace, of Tot
tenham Highcrofs, Grsat Britain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
Philadelphia, novewher 8. aaw6w
By John Fenno, N° 119 Chef nut Street.
For Freight or Charter,
To any Port in Europe,
ONE hundred and forty-oae cons
btimv-n—Stannrh -and weli bailt, and fail* faft.—
For terms a,ppiy to
Joseph Anthony & Co,
January fj .. .
Niciclin Griffith,
Ar their Store on Walnut Street VTh*r£—
HAVE FOR SALE,
58 hhds. of Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wine in pijKJ and hhds.
Teneriffe do. in p«p"
Qld Port do. in bb-.s.
Imperial Tea in quarters »n<l eighths of cliefts
Sail Canvass, No. i, to 8
Dimkies, Ginghams, and Muflincts, in packa
ges suitable for the Weft India market
Nails afibrtcd
Black quart bottles
Queens ware in hhd«. and crates
Yellow ochre dryjn caflts ;
And at New-York, on board the
fhi|s DiaiU, from Liverpobl, expedled round
as soon as tiie navigation is open,
fine Liverpool Salt
Coals
Spanish Brown
Venetian Ke4 \
Purple Brown PAINTS
Pwent white
White lead
Red lead
Colcothar vitriol
160 bundles Sheathing paper v
Seaming twise
For Sale or Charter.
a 1, s a,
Brig Awazov.
"lie late firm of Philip Nicktir & Co.
is now changed to*
NICKLIN y GRIFFITH.
January 1. eodtf
For Savannah,
TP SAIL THE FIRST OPENING,
. . The faft failing ship
SWIFT PACKET,
PATiueK Gribbh, Matter,
R> NOW lying the firft wharf below
Market Street—has landfome ac
commodations for paffengers—Forfr<ight «r pas
sage apply to the Matter on board, or to
N. iff J. Frazer,
•" No. 95, South Front Street.
Who have on hand, and for Sale,
Prime Rice, in whale and half tierees, Georgia
and Carolina tadigo, Molasses in hhds, Teneriffe
wine, &c. &c
Decembera7 jtawtl.
For Anifterdam, \
F A™'M ER,
John IVl'Ccllom, Matter ;
feiMTILL.faU in a few days, the
SC'KradJSafeSogreater part' ps her cargo being
ready. For freight fifty ton-, of CofFee, or pas
sage, apply to the master on board, at Walnut
ttreet wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is Landing, put of the said Ship, from Bor
deaux, and l*or Sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter calk?
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fentiniac, }
Sauterne, S Wines in cases
Lunille, )
Prunes in boxes
november 24.
For Sale or Charter, >
GOOD HOPE,
Will carry about laoo barriH*, and
is ready to take in a cargo. Fir terms
inili'i * apply to
Pragers & Co.
No. 151, booth Second-street.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rem, Madeira, Lisbon, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7. dtf.
For Savannah, in Gporgia,
THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captain Chisholm,
A new vessel, with excellent
for passengers
Sails on the 10th of December. For Freight or
Passage, apply to ROSS ts" SIMSON.
Who have to difpttft: of,
A small invoice ot GLAUJF.R SALTS
INDIGO, and a part.el.of HOL#.Y WOOD.
November 18. §
ALL persons iiii'Ated to the estate of Peter
Gill, late of the Diftridl of Southwark, de
seafed, are requested to make immediate pay
ment to either of the Sublcribersj and those
who have any demands against said estate, arc
requested to bring in their accounts duly attest
ed to.
JOHN MURPHY, ") r
PETER SCRAVENJDYKE, > txfcu "
THOMAS F'ARRELL, ) tors -
Philad. 'an. 16, »7qß. *1 jw+h-
FOR SALE, at
Wm. Young's Book Store, x
No. 51, Sesond flreet, the corner of Chefnut ttreet,
REPORT of the Committee of the House of
Reprefentativesof the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
against WILLI\M BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeached of high crimes and mis
demeanors, made in pursuance of 3 refolutioti of
the Boufa of Representatives, authorizing the said
Coram it tee to fit during the recof# of Congress, and
inftro&ing them " to enquire, and, by all lawful
" means, todifeaver the whole nature and extent
" of the offence whereof the laid William Blount
" (lands impcache,!, and who are the parties and
" affobates therein "
Printed'by order of the l J .cufe of Representatives.
December iq. J
For Londonderry,
William Whitten, mailer.
, A ifannch good vessel, has the
greaser part of her cargo on board, and will sari as
loon as the navigation permits. It fptedy applica
tion is made, a few calks will b taken on freight;
for which, and passage, ro the Captain, at
Cuthbert's wharf, or the fubferihers.
John Siyrin,
Laud en Merger's wharf, *r
George D»bfsn,
No. iouth 3d Street.
Fresh Fruitsand Wine,
DIRECT TROTH MALAGA,
By the brig Johanna, capt. Thieffen, arrived at
Marcus Hook,
1000 caiks fine Bloom Raisins
S j"."} *•
iS JfineMufctcldo.
100 Boxes lemons
too Jars grapes
100 Kegs of figs
7 Bags foft Ibell'd almands
60 Boxes Jordan almond kernels
* j""-" 1 "
109 Qr. calks fine Mountain do.
30 Qr. calks Colemenar do.
Apply to
, Edward Dunant,
No* South Front fltr^ct.
Who will Freight or Charter,
Tht fuid Brigantine
JO H A FN A x
Being a Dane of about 20; tons
burthen, for any port in Europe. "~
January 19 x *jt«od
AMIABLE,
D. C. Tn.uJjqi(AST, Master,
f or Amjlerdam,
CAN take in about 4c tons of goods tp complete
ber cargo. She is intended to fail the firft
opening for freight or passage apply to
the master on board, at 11 right's wharf, or to
Jeremiah Warder.
January 18 3t.
The Subscriber
INFORMS fhofi whom it may interest or con
cern, that the Judg«s of the Court of Common
Pleas have appointed Monday, the tiventy-fxtl day of
February next,to hear him andhis Creditors, at the
Court-houCe in this city, on the fuhjeift of his peti
tion for the benefit of the Isfolvent Law—and
that their attendance is desired.
JAMES GREENLpAJF.
Philadelphia, *Jan. 16. eotl6thF
To Be Soli), r v
AGREEABLY to the last will and tcftamer.t of
Wit.Lia 14 Ht ysuam, deceased, and pofiVf
fioii given immediately,.! valuable property inArch
'llre'et, between Third and Fourth streets, coiffift
ingof the house, No. 107, with the lot on which
it is ere&ed, a stable, and other improvements.—
The house is 10 feet front, and contains ten good
apartments. The lot is of thp fame breadth as the
house and 209 feet deep, with a well of water and
a very capacious waile.l cistern, both with pumps
in gosp repair. The liable (lauds on the rear of
the lot and will accommodate four horses and a car
riage. This property enjoys(he perpetualpriyilege
of a 26 feet court and an alley, K feet wi4e, extend
ing to Cherry Street. Its central ppfition and the
it poffeffcs with refpeiS to free ventila
tion, renders it well worthy the attention of any
pprfsp wifbing to poiTtfi sp eligible prcp«rty in Phi
ladelphia,
For further particulars enquire at No 8?, Vine
Street—of
RoBtKT HeYSHAm,
Or > Adling Executors.
Francis Bowes Savri, j
January II §
W. Haydon,
Delineator of Drawing—frorfi London,
(Where he has ltudied several years under one of
the moil eminent mailers in tt at fcieiice)
Fli'Oß-MS his trlend-j, that he has re-conimenc
ed his private tuitjon.—Terms, as usual. Six
Dollars per month, for attendance three times a
week. Likewise, all kinds of Ornamental Paint
ing, fruit, flowers, &c. taught on the above terms.
\V. H. flatters himfelf his terms wiH be particu
larly advantageous to those that (jmploy him, as
he makes no additional charge if there are two
pupils in one family.
A line direified to W. H. left at the office of this
G:zette, will be immediately attended to.
January 9. §zw
gf The owners of the Brigantine
Mercury, William Uron, master, captured by
a Spanilh privateer and fold at Ceuta in last De
ceoiber, may receive interesting information ref
peiling her, by applying to the Department of
State.
*. * The Printers in the sea-port towns of
the United States w'll render a fervire to the
concerned, by inserting the above in tbeir news-
P-'pers. Ji n %.
Landing this day,
From on board sh« schooner Two Friends, Dan
lei Crawley, Master,
FOR SALE BY
George Latimer £s° Son.
uo'vetnher 9.
NOT I. C E.
To holders of JAMES 'GREENLEAF's
and EDIVARD FOX'S Engagements
IN consequence of many having been prevent
ed, from late unavoidable circumstances from
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice, The Trustees now inform them, they
are ready to iflue the fame to those who may ap
ply within sixty days, at No. 8 Chefnut Street,
and those who do not, will be confnltrcd as re
linquishing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided for theii payment.
HENRY PR.VTT,
T.HC MAS W. FRA NCIS,
JOHN MH.LER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACCfI BAKER.
December ij. d&ct
LOST,
IN this City, en Sundar November 16.
a red Morocco Pocket Book, containing 8
notes «f band to Read & Pi ttn, a follow*,
John Duffield's, f0r.441 dollars 73 cents. t
William M'Laws 435 37 «
George «Vay's 177 19
Joha Doaks 11 99
Edward Clayton'» 69
Do. 30
U 17
John Hrawa's £lO6-15-11
One ic dollar Bank of PennfyWaniitnete— an or
der upon Walter Franklin,Efq. in tamx of Charles
Read, and sundry other papers that can be of no
use but to the owners. Payment of the aforcfaid
notes of hafd heing ft'p'd, a reward of dollar*
ihili be paid to the perfoc or pcrfoos bring
ing said pocket book with the aforcfaid contents to
Read and Pierie, No. 65, Cbefoul Street and Co
questions asked.
January 19. *ced3t.
War-Office of the United States,
January the IjS, 1798.
WHEREAS frauds have been praftilcd, in
obtaining Warrants for Bounty Lands, due
to the aod Soldiers of the late Continental
Army, by the production of forged instruments.
To check in future fuck impositions, it has been
thought ac'vifeable ; that all persons, having claims
for bounty lands, -whether in their own right, as
ltfjjal rcprtfentative, or by virtue of any lodrument
or deed of transfer, be required to forward their
rtfpe&ive ckiins to the War Office, on or before
the firft day ol January 1799 in order that *fuch
claims may be duly examined, adjusted and deter
mined upon • N
To fubftawiate such claims, a striA observance of
the rules heretofore ifijeri from the War Office vriH
be indifpcnfable ; and in addition to what is requit
ed by the laid rules, th< certificate of the acknow
ledgement of a Deed or Power of Attorney, mult
also set forth the place of residence and occupation
of the claimant or person making such acknowledg
ment ; nod when the pi oof of pcrfonal knowledge
is by a witnef« or witnesses, their placeor places of
residence must be set forth in like manner-
JAMES M'HENRY, Sf.'y of War.
Jan. 7. d6w
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. 110 Walnut-street,
INFORMS those who wifli to recur to the only
means of becoming perfe<St in the French Lan
guage, that he has jufl opened his Library, con
fining of upwards of 1500 volumes, the bed cal
culated to afford either ufeful inftru&ion, or plea
sure. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of th<?Library, maybefeen at every book-feller's
in town.
n. B. All translations from and into the French,
Englilh and Spanilh Languages, executed with ac
curacy and dispatch. eoim nov. 14.
To Cabinet Makers, "Joiners, l&c.
Cavanagh & Hearn,
Pine-street, near the New-Market,
RETURN thinks /o their friends and the
public, for their liberal encouragement,
and hope, by their unremitting attention, to
merit a continuance of their favore. The Part
aerfhip between them and Joseph B. Barry, has
been rtiffolved by mutual consent. Cavanagh
and Hearn have just r«ceived quantity of St.
Domingo and Honduras Mahcgony, which they
intend to fell very reasonable termss forcalb.
Orders from the country moll pun<3ua!ly exe
cuted. Vineers of all kinds cut as nfual'.
J an - *S i _ 2aw4W
FOR THE CURE OF~
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, CON
SUMPTIONS,
And all disorders tf the Breaji and Lungs,
Church's Cough Drops
I» a medicine unequalled by any other in the world.
CERTIFICATE.
" I hereby certify, thjt I have been cured of a
most levere Cough, Csd, and violent p::in in my
brealt, by taking only afew doses of Dr. Cuu-Rsa's
Cough nrops. CHARLES BEVANS,"
Sail Maker, Spruce areet wharf, Philadelphia.
From a London Paper.
To Dr. CHURCH.
SIR,
Having been recently restored from the brink of
the grave, by your invaluable medicine, 1 think it
njy duty to make this public acknowledgment of
the fame, >r the benefit of others affii&ed with a
fimilir complaint, 1 had been aftlioled with a most
dreadfui althnia for about twenty-three years. I
never for years got any reft, my cough was so
troubleforr.e in the night; and used to discharge an
almoll incredible quantity of glutinous matter
from my lungs ; and my breath was so exceeding
snort that I could not walk across my rooiru Pro*
videnthlly hearing of your Cough Drops, I took
them ; and, through taking them alone, I am now,
blessed be God ! restored to perfed health. My
cafe is well known to the members of the Ebene-
Chapel, in LincqJn's-Inn-Field, of which I am
also a member ; and any of them will gladly fa
tiasy any inquiry concerning the truth of what 1
fay. I am, Sir, yonr grateful servant,
NATHANIEL LANGWORTHY,
No. 8, Smith's-court, Great Windmill-street,
Hay-market*
Witness
N. Langworthy, jun.Np* 40,
Pultney-ftreet, Golden-fquar?.
- (
CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS
Are prepared and fold (only) by the inventor and
sole props ic(or, Dr. James Church, at his Medi
cine Store, No. 1 South Third-ttreet, next the Mar.
ket, Philadelphia; and by appointment, at New-
York, by Me.frs. Staples and Co. 169 Pcarl-ftreer
and Miss Wedman, iiz WiHjm-ftreet.
Dr. Church may be consulted every day, at his
office, ij§ South Front-flreet, Philada'phia
J apuar y 9- 3 aw 3 w
All Perions
Having any demands aga'nft the Estate of the
late Captain George Irwin, *re requtfted ta
bring i« their accounts pioperly attelled, on or
before the firft day. of January next ensuing
and those who are indebted ro said ellate are so
licited to make immediate payment to
o-iUAH IRWIN, Administratrix.
n«v. 19 1707 v j
Tin Plates,
FOR SALE BV
SIMON WALKER,
' Pine, noar Fifth street.
December 18. Ivv ,
[Volume XIII.OnS-ATURDAr, 2-itb injl. j
At 6 d'ctnek In the evening, wiU be Sold by Pi>a- ,
lie Vr*DUe> at the Coffee-houfe, |
An elegant Houie, No. 78, 1
tN Wtnut-ftree'. wiich is«s feet ffoot.by 171 1
test deep, with » *dj '("eg *° '- l 1 w W c >
7; feet o iiiehesde.p ; this lot is back of the house
occupied by George Willing, tfif' The ho,ife '»
completely finifced in every refpecft. !t is 50feet
deep, hit (wo Urge parlours, the front jne 14feet,
"'tie Vick it by iS I afeet ; a handsome drawing
r iuiu 14 1-1 by 14 feet-? the roorfubel«w, the
drawing room, ahd chamber aiming, have iha- J
hogany door, and thele room*, «• well at the rnonis
above them, have a communKation with each o:h- .
ir ; the height i» the flrl! and fecnndftiriifare 11 1
f.-et. a d tholerooms have (lucco carpices »ndniue
» r(mm»up A aits, besides the gtrreta, which nre di
riil-d in'o three moms, a good kitchen, walh and
milk house, (bower and plunging baths, a large
ice h'.uft, a pump in *hr yard, and a } feet j inch
alley, that leads into Pourth-ilreet. Tl»< cellar?
arc with Unie and floored pfi'.hwvo iflclaplank
»"tl pUiflered : the jrard is well fcivei, and the
house is clear of ground rct't; it it Rented for on<_-
year for 400 pounds per aimurr fro™ the 4th of
>6yember last. Two b*kk liable* in
z Ttreet, with two coach houbs, <*ie »l them will
hold twp carriages, the other one ; the fmallell lia
ble has room for three, and rhe largsll for lour
torfl s : it is »I feet front on Walnut-ftreot, by 50
feet 3 inches deep ; they have riccile.pt 'oft 1 6>er
them, an,l are nuwrents' sos 100 pounds per an
num ; the cellar is arched and laid iwith two
inch "plank, and will hold about lot? pipes ot wine ;
is clear of ground rent; has the privilege of an
'II i-i feet alley, tlia' leads into Fifth ftjeet.
Alio, a large brick.ftere, 3 j feet-front on fourth
flreet, by 50 deep, which might at » fn»ll cipence
be turned into ahandfome dwelling house, having
been so contrived in the building: it has a yard 48
feet fix inche* deep, by 14 wide; has a rain water
' umpand nectffary, and the cel!ar;i» with two
inch plank. and is now rented at 150 pounds per
annum ; the rent was yaid down for 18 months
1 his building is fuhjcift to a ground rent of eleven
dollars and three quarters per arum.
A lot situate on the call fide of Fourth-street, 20
feet by 50 feet,, it joins on the end ef Dr.
RufbVJot, and has the privilege of a three fe«t al
ley adjoining, it is fuhje& to a ground rent of ijx
dollars per annum.
P«,rchafers, before the sale, may apply to the
fubfeiber, George Meap?., or
FOOTMAN Sc. CO. auAioncers.
BALL.
Mr. Francis refpeijfully informs hi* fcholar3,
• and tht public in general, that bis third pra£l
ifing Ball will be on Thursday the ajth, at the
newAflemMv'Wm,Smith FcmrthSweet,between
Chefnltand vValnut flreet— Ladies tickets to be
"had by applying to the fchojars of Mr. Francis,
or jit his hoafe No. 70 North Eighth, Street.
Gentlemen'! tickets one dollar each, to be had
• of Mr. Francis, at the Academy, or at his house
Mr. Francis likewise informs the Subferibers
to the Seleft Balls, that the next will be on
Tuesday the 30th—Those fubferibers who have
not yet received their tickets, are requested to
apply for them as above.
Mr. Francis continues to take Scholars as u
sual.
Jan. 12. d**
*" JUZJJIK,
By JOHN MILLER, jun. Co.
No 8, Cfwinut-ftrect,
Or.e hundred and eighty bales
BENGAL GOODS,
Amongfi which are,
Gurrahs Mamoodies
Battas Sannas
Gmii nahs Tanda Coffa.es
Citezies Bmertics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palampoors Romall Handkerchiefs
Amongst them are a great proportion of the
manufactures of Patna.
December I. '
" Ji}ST 'RECEIVED,
(via, Now-Y«rk)
AND NOW OPENING, BT
George Dobso'N,
No 15, f»utb Third flreet,
An exfeniive and general assortment of
HABERDASHERY, viz.
seft London mixt Pins Galloons and Ferrets
Common do. do. Worsted Bindings,affotv
Makencie'sfuper,patent ted colours
white chapel N. edies Imperial, and
Nuns Thr»ad no. 6to Thread Tapes
40, regularly afTorted White Edgings
Lifie do.ne. I.",o to joo, Black nd coloured Chi
regularly a(for;ed ntfs Ribbands
Coloured doi" Satrin and figurcj do.
Black fewin£ Silks B!arkV e lvet, i-4to lld
Cok>vi-l do. and Twifl Velvet & pelon Satt'ißS
Silk aril cotton Wires French Cambrick
Do. d®. Ribbands Scotch do.
shirt Moulds and \tfires gilt and plated
Black brush Feather- Buttons
And a complex assortment of Caods,
to the present *nd approaching fcafon, at reduced
price. Dec. 6: r . , dtf
Princeton —New-'Jerfey.
To be Sold,
THAT neat and convenient House in which
the late Mr.. Ann Withtrfpeon, nn -»
Ann 1* alker, lived ; together with all the appur
tenances. The house is two ftorie> high, of frame
wofk, and painted. There are are four roonjs
and an entry on the lower floor, and five rosnn
op the second floor. Thecellarsare dry, and the
garret spacious-—Th« back yard is paved \yi.h
stone*. In it are a well of excellent water, an
oven, a smoke house, and house for aib«!>—and
* behind it a Carriage house; hay loft, granary, and
convenient ftobles, with four flail? for Irorf'.'S, and
four for neat cattle. The lot is 60 fecjt wide upon
the flreet. and 2/4 feet deep.fomewhot more than
one half of which is made isto a kifchen garden
of an exctllent'ftfil.
For terms,which will be made very reifounble,
\ arp'T t0 the reverend
Samuel S. Smitl.j.
T»wn»ry 19 aw^w
"Houle anii in liordcntoivn.
rpo BE SOI.D, a handsome two story House.
J. with the Lot on whifh it is creited, fitudtcd
about the midille of the beautiful anil Wealthy
Village of Botdeotown. The haufe is forty two
tcet frcilt.'fna in neat order Thelat
one acre, ipd is one batuTred feet on
Hreet, and extends'with'ttie'fame breadth tc. back
street. Also, a Urge I ot, containing nearly four
acres, separated from the former by back itreet.
One third only of the purchal'e money will be re
quired upon ciecnting a deed, and lor the re
mainder, fudi-creditwill » given a» tbe purchase
tr maycliufe. Tkj* property will be fold free «-
all incumbrances,find an itidifputablc title gtvenf
¥or farther patticulars enquire either of Dr.
Williim Buints, rvfiding in Bordcntown, near,
the premises, who will flww the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, no. 144, Market-street.
December a. 3a\vtf
Hyson and Young Hyson 1 ea.
A few chests of excellent quality, Fur Sale, cor
ner of Second and Pin* ftreet-.
December J6. *ctf
P H 1 L A D E L PH t A .
! TUESDAY EVENING, JANUARY IJ
SCIPIO—Nf. XIII.
It woyld be neithcrufeful nor entertaining
to rcrairk on thecommunictittons which pafl
ed between our nriiuiftar and the direQoty,
| relative to the British treaty, after they had
told him they had made up their mind h+iv to dB.
■ He feern/ to have been afraid to i;eprefent
the sentiments of the Executive on this
fubjeft; apprehending they might be difa
greeabte to the directory, and thern
lulpedl his peifonal devotion to their wtK
which, on so. tnany Bccafions he had mani
felted. By this timidity, he must have con
trtbuted to alarm their jealousy, and not to
appease ft. While he pretended to juflify
and support the Executive in refpeft to the
treaty, he appean *o have diftri/jled the
goodness of hit cause,. and by this diffidence
to ha*e animated the discontent of France.
I (hall pass over the uncertaiwties, contrari
eties and idle conjeftnres to te fouod in his
letters to the Secretary of State, They
may have been meant-tcr keep the; mind of
the President in anxious andpainful
or they may have been designed tojeave the
ex-minister at full liberty, at a futUre day,
to join in supporting that nation in demand
ing an abrogation of the treaty with Britain.
If he ha«To dubiously, so jefuitically, & in
fmctrely defended tfje measures of America
in relation to foreign naions, and particular
ly the treaty with Britain, that he can now,
without inconfiJlency advocaU the proceed
ings of Frances %11 men must agree, he has
been the unfaithful reprefentativ« ef the
Urtited States. Will any perfiin doubly
after reading Mr. Monroe's pamphlet, on
which fide he now stands in the controver
sy between Prance and his native country.
He has avowed his objeA in his publication
to be, to denounce the Executive for what
he calls injustice andperfidy towards France.
He has recapitulated no less than £ourteen ;
chargestomake goodhis denunciation, runn
ing over a period of several years which em
braces the whole fpaee of his miniflry at Pa
ris. Is it pbfflble that Mr. Monroe could
have truly and cordially endeavoured to fulfil
the views of the President as the minister of
the United States to tht French republic, if
he differed from him in sentiment, and dis
approved of his maafures, or fufpe<£Ud his
objefts? How can it be reconciled, that he
remained more than two years in a ministry
fubjeft to the direftion of the President, and
for aught that appears, w6uld have willing
ly remained for ever if in his*power; and
that when he has been recalled, he has writ
ten a book of accusations against his employ
er, in which, he endeavours to proVe that,
relative to France, the Executive has been
either untoife, or unjust, or dishonourable,
and hasfurm'fhedjuftcaufeforthe
of that nation? After this, is it surprising
that citfzen Barras, President of the direc
tory, in the valedictory delivered to Mr.
Monroe at his taking leave of France, Ihould
have taken that occasion to pronounce an in
ve&ive against our President, and an eulogy
011 ourminifter? Did not this deroonftrate
that thediredlory believed the fentimefcts of
the roinifter and of the President to be at
variance, and that the former had been sub
servient to the views of France? Else, why
were the direftery disposed to permit Mr.
Monroe always to remain in his ministry,
why have they not only to receive,
but even to hear his successor, gen. Pinck
ney, than whom, no American truly at
tached to the good of his country, could be
less exceptionable—why, at this moment
have our envoys been so long delayed,
or perhaps sent back without an audience?
To them no personal obieftion has been, or
can be made. The only answer that occurs
to me, to these questions is, that France,
having so long been indulged with a minister
moreufeful to it, than to America; ami-'
who did every thing to infriire the di
lrftory with confidence in him, but nothing
to inTpiic them with confidence in the Ex
' ecutive, a minister who represented himfelf
to that, in proportion as he disregarded tta
itittrefts of this government, was dtfpleafed
at his recall, and may have taken up the o
pinion that (he is intitled to have at all times
a minister from America, equally condescend
ing, obsequious and fubmiflive. In thepre
<ent difagreefnent between the two nations,
if an argument more forcible than the reft
to fuppoVt the iff. of the Executive in re
moving this minister was fought for, the
panegyric of citizen Barras on our minis
ter's condu<S would furnifh it.
To confirm statement which I have
made of Mr. Monroe's negligence refppft
ing the British treaty, I must present to the
public an extraft from the letter of the se
cretary of state to him, dated' 13tft Jurte,
1795- It is as follow? : « But the princi
pal matter which now demands attention is
what concerns the late treaty between the
United States and Great Britain.
" Of the views of the government of the
United States on this fubjeft, you have long
since been possessed as well before as subse
quent to its ratification. These view* were
communicated to yoH for the sole purpose of
fumifhing you with the means of removing
■ objections and difpeUing jealousies. By
your own representations both' objeftions
and jealaufies existed. It has been there
fore a matter of no small surprize to the
President, th.it during folopg a period you
contented yourfelf merely with having those
means iu your pofleilion without' applying
them to the objeft for which they Were
transmitted.
" As early as Oftober last you predicted
that if Mr. Jay's treaty (hould be ratified,
it would excite great discontent in France.
Early in November you mentioned the ar
rival of Mr. Fatichet extremely diffalisfied
with the treaty ; adding that he was well
received and would therefore be attended
to. On the 6th December you acknowl
edge <Ke*receipt bt n:y lettei of Seplcmber
12tfi, written f.*bfeq«culv to the ratifica
tion of the treaty, to repeat and further
explain the principles and views of the go
vernment concerning it. Mr. Adet's ob
jections to the treaty 8»d their refutation
accompanied my letter. And with such
alcana in your hands, means amply fufficient
to vindicate the conduit of the Ujiiled
States, notjefs regrcniian surprize is exci
ted thsf no attempt was madt; to apply them
to the highly itnportant use for which they
were sent. Although you anticipated dis
contents, although the symptoms of difcon
teot appeared, although these fympt»ms!
unatteuded tu and unallayed mig'tin'ncreafe
foan iiiflamfliiition, and Mr.Fiiu liet'sarrival
with all his diffatisfaction and prejudices a -
boat htm would affwredly add to the irrita
tion ; yel you were- silent and inadtive, un
til, on thf 15th Fel>fU9ry you were alarmed
'by'the project »f the direi.'torj' accidentally
comiW>uicated to you ; by. the minister of fo
reign aflfeirs of femling to this, country an
envoy extraordinary'to represent to our go
vernment their decision concerning the trea
ty with Great Briton, " that they consid
ered the treaty of alliance between us as
ceaiing to exist from the moment the treaty
was.iatified." Your letter of the 20th of
the Jfame month, describes your fe?ond in
terview with the minister on the projedt of
fendiug an envoy extraordinary, and the
reasons yoti urgjed to dissuade them from it,
were certainly very cogent. Your letter
of the 10th March, informs us the projeft
was laid aside, and your letter of the 25th
of 'March, that you had an audience of the
diredtory on the fubjeft, and that they had
agreed to suspend tp propefe their proposed
extraordinary million, until the points ih
question fhotrld be dffcwffed between you
and .rhe minister for foreign /affairs. The re-
Jult this audience appears fathfuctory, and
fromtfhc good esseS produced by the partial ex
planations then given, may be the hap-
P> confequtncetofthe full communications which I
might have beyt made, and which forfo long a
timeypu bad. poffejfed the means of making, in
vi/iditttwp tf the government .you fepreftnt. ■
Thai these •were not made, that they had not I
betn.. made even so late as the 2 sth of March,
is again to be extremely regretted, because the
jujlice, t)oihon»r and the faith oj tur country,
were fU(/lioned, and consequently their mqfl
fmportmt interefij were at flake. (Page
This document shall close »ie illustration of
this inft.anceof Mr. Monroe's mifcondu£t—
In juftifying himfelf,vit is true he has Rated
that he conceived it most prudent, to ob
serve filpace on this topic, which.he terms
remaining on the defenfive: but inacafelike
this, wha; scut of defence was lilence i Did
.filen.ee dilpel jealoulies ? Did silence efface
the miXrorceptions which had been produ
ced by the wicked misrepresentations of flie
treaty* so Industriously invented, and reiter
ated on this (ide the water, by the French
fadtiou ? Did silence vindicate the justice
and honor of America, from the vile afper
tions throwt; on both, not only by some of
our citizens, but even by members ef cur
legislative bodies ? Did iilence vindicate the
executive from the infinite calumnies which
were circulated by the editor of the Auro
ra, the confidentialfriend and correspondent of
citizen Monrbe ? Or was not silence the part
which by the French faftion, was prescrib
ed to him to h'im to aft, as best calculated
to-weaken and embarrass the administration
of our own government and" t» promote their
turbulfcnt ahd vicious projetfts.
CONGRESS.
HOtfSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
FRIDAY —JANUARY 19.
Debate on Foreign Intercourse.
[Continued from yell rday's Gazette.]
Mr. N.Smith said the present bill was lim
ited in its operation to two years; of course, if
the gentleman from Virgin a wanted no more
to-alttr the present eltahlifhn.enr, at some
to conlinue a it had beejl, until'fuch period ar
rived v sad in the two years contemplated in
the.bill would probably e*xpire. He must fay,
howeiJe/, that although he considered it clear
that caigrefs had the power to regulate the fa
laritb of our ministers to foreign courts, it was
;qually*clea* tllat they had bo power by tfie
conllitutifw to determine on their or
The power of making treaties necefTa
rify carried with' it thp power of eSablilhing
miniiters ; the po.wer of. executing the laws of
*atiußS, implies the fubopdinate power tp ellab
lilh tb*iP?ccfTa!-y diplomatic agencies. Our fo
reign lelitions being placed in the hands of the
executive, a/idalLour correspondence with fo
reign nations being through him, were strong
circumstances in favor -of the poGtion. But it'
bad-been said, as the power of reg\ilatinj; faU-i
ries Was in,Congrefs they might, by refuting to
allow the falaries, defeat any appoint
rtie-nf theextcutive might make ; or by allow
ing a low salary a finally reduce the grade from
whit thepreEdent had'cftabiilhed ; and our go
veriimen't had b< en said" to be* a government of
checks and bailees. He Taid this brought iii
to vie* an old topic of difcuflion which was
to him riot a matter of regret. The great land
mirks of onr constitution coYld not be 109 clear
ly afcertsined, and from the importance and in
tricacy of the fubjefl, it could hardly be too often
ilifcufled. That onr's was a government Of
checks and balances in a certain sense he Would
admit, tbotjgh, not hy any means in the feufe
contended for by gentlejnen. He said the gov
ernment was.d vided i#to three principal 'Je
partonents, the Executive, the Legislative, and
the Judiciary ; e*eh ofthefe had in it checks.
The pnrMer.t in the ejrteutive department was
clrtekwt tfr rtie fcr.att ; in the legislative de
partmyr.t the senate, the house of reprcfenta
tives aRd the qualified approbation of the Pr>-
Hdent were reciprocally checks upon each other,
hi the judiciary, certain appeals of writs of er
-101 'were provided as checks. Bui that one of
these f rrat departments was designed by the
conilituimn to check another by relufmg to afl,
he altogetlifr denied. Indeed the arts of each
r were ntceftary in order t„ give force and effftfl
<0 the other. The legislature would in vain
, make laws if the executive might refufe to pn'
them in lorce, or ..if rhe j'.dicjar.y niight disregard
. them ; and equally vain is it ior the executive
|j to exert himfe/for the good of the nation in
. Tin tegularcQnttitutionahfur«flions, if the leeif
j lature will withhold from Mm its aid. He said
1 so far from this, the three departments Ihould
••j move mptrrfeta utlifan ; they (howld move with
•is «i«c:i regularity as the rtaHcHiiKry »f a elo«k»
each part fupportmg the others ; a*4 the n>
tnent that one of these depaitmcnjs will refufe
to exercise its c«nftitution*l funAioils, in ord?r
to (five force and eIT.-fl to the regular £»nftit«-
tinnal aisls of the o.hers, the utmost disorder
inult pervade our whole political marhioe. No
one apartment c»u'd be cit.fidered as the fa
vorite of the constitution, b>jt the lame oblerra
tiorw -were applicable to the who';. 1' wis nat
in »he power of the legiflatur* to reverse a Cn
gle deciflon -of the lowefl court acting under
the laws of the United - States.
If filch a decifi in wa« to minifeftly wrong a«
to prove corruption in file joii-je*, still the legis
lature could do no rrrjre than impeach the jndgr
I ei ; while they cannot Under any-pretext inter-,
ftre with the He alked if this was
admitted, whether the house will allume the
po*;r of judging over tfie head of the lupreme
executive in marters within his province. He
apprehended the true /ate to be this, that whea
•vcr the regular con ffitutional ails of one de«
partineut come l4cid«ot*4ly lirfoic another, no
enquiry .8 to be their policy y,r pro
-priety, but they are presumed for the bc't The
executive had found it iutlifpenfable to eftabMh
a minister at Berlin, and to raise the grades of
thole at Ivflion and Madrid- £t was ttie duty
of the legilHture to pt-ovide filarie» : in duing
this they might enquire relative to the expeace
of living at each court, and the stile of living
proper for ait American minilter to alfume ; and
indeed any other considerations except the pro
priety of eftaMifhing them, their grades and their
appointtrtents. These, he said, were futijecfU
which (h»uld be laid aside m their deliberations,
being already fettled by the regular constitu
tional authorities for the purpose. It had been
(aid that this power in the executive would give
hjp an influence,over the legislature. He con
ceived it a fuflicient anfvver to this argument to
fay such was the constitution- It therefore had
no other efteft than what was probably design«
ed by the framers of that instrument. It was,
however, worthy of remark, that the advocates
for the ablblute controlof the house of represen
tatives ovi.- th* executive, generally founded
their arguments rather upon what tney suppose ;
deftHs in the cenjlitition, than on the obvious
meaning of the canftitntion itlilf. In the room
of'contending for a gemiine fair conftruillon of
it, they contend againll it as it as it is. He was
ready to admit that thof'e gentlemen were nf o
pinion the constitution had giveo coo much pow
er to the executive, and this as far as it went
might be their excule ; but they ihould bring
forward an amendment in the regular constitu
tional way : and he presumed gentlemen would
do this, did tbey not know its probably, fate.
I< had been said that prefidctit had already
abused this power by appointing to office gen
tlemen of the fame political with
himfelf. This had been called " executive pa
tronage," and the present majorities in the two
houfesof congress fetmed to be attributed to the
overgrown influence of the executive. It had
also bzen said, the executive had determined in
future not to appoint any gentleman to office
whose political opinions did not coincide with
his own. That the executive had formed the
resolution attributed to him ffe Was .ready to
admit, because he theught it was high time
such a determination was made- Coald
it be contended with all our preferrt ex
perience that it was proper to have a di
plomatic agent who, regardless of his duty,
could place himfelf at the head of a faftion
in opposition to those from whom he receiv
ed his appointment ? Could it be proper to
have an executive agent in office who, har
bouring sentiments hostile to the govern
ment could secretly defeat the very meafurei
he publicly advocated ; " initiating" a fo
reign mini llfr-into certain 'i hold
ing " an official language and a language con
fidential"? Can it indeed be proper to have
in office a man who irtakes " preciqtts confejji
ons"? Mr. Smith said, thf position this
country had affumcd during the present Eu
ropean war, was one of all others the most
difficult to support even in. absolute govern
ments. A neutral state mnft be supposed
to excite the jealonfy of all the belligerent
parties; but in a.republican government
where every individual may freely indulge
himfelf in political speculations, and where
some may be found unnatural enough to use
their utmost exertion in exciting the jealous
ies and suspicions of one of the powers at
war, the situation is rendered still more com
plicated and embarrassing. In such a state
of things it was ps the utmost importance
that the Executive and ministers (hould go
heart and hand together ; that the minister
(hpuld feel an interest in reconciling foreign
nations to the adts of government, that
tfeey should feel zealous ip their attempts to
banish suspicions and restore harmony when
ever there may be the least interruption ®f
it, and not use every effort to wide* the
.breach between our government and a foreign
nation in order to " draw elofer the bands of
union between an inveterate faction in this
country and such foreign powers. He said
while he admitted thatthe cxecutivehad late
ly, and probably would for the future ap-'
point to office such only as were of (imilar
political sentiments with himfelf, (which he
admitted because he thought such conduft
proper and not because he knew any thing
about it) he would riot admit that the Pre
sident ever fele&ed a member of the legifla
« ire for the purpose of influencing their con
dutt, nor would he admit that it ever had
or would in this country have any influence
pn the legislature. It was well known that
salaries were low, lie believed, designed
merely for support, with a very moderate
compensation for the time they,were neces
sarily employed in public service; but if
gentlemen could Ihow that salaries weit so
high as tp render offices objects of competi
tion he would join them in a reduction of a -
ny such salary ; forhis parthedid notbclieve
a profpeft of appointment<ver had the least
influence upon a lingle the legis
lature ; and he would call on gentlemen,
who drew these unfair coticlufions refpe£ting
therhotives of members, to fay whether the
state of their own hearjs had been their stand
ard by which to judge of others; he would
call on the gentleman from Pennsylvania
(Mr. Gallatin) whether his htart was his
ltandard while he was yellerday indulging
his illiberal suspicions relative to an honora
ble membet from 6. Carolina who received
a foreign appointment during the late session
of Congress. Mr. Smith alked utilefs this
was the source, from whence did Mcy draw
such condufions: Surely they had no proofs
on which to found them; Jiuman motives
wen beyond the reach of proof, and yti 1 ess
gentlemen draw their affcrtipns, from the
source be had meiHiauedthei'i-j. - r *
H- 3" 'r mere d r m! of
«e laid, if ,t was admitted that the K r
to to itfelf the toterff e
infore'gn ijitorcourfe they ftouid call f*
all the information in the paffeffion of t
fridK erdcr totnaMe tb «n to mat!
a right judgment tw the fubieet ™ c
lure a (Fume the power J".7 v V fu "
immediately beca»e theorem ' 3r,(1
that, afidt from these Moderation, the'"if
fervations made br the pentl,™,, r ob "
Carolina ( Mr. S
conclafire force: indeed "r j, s min< *
;r t " f
state knew!!",
Cd > and * ra % interpofc wi,hLT oo w"
■ng any th.ng about the
unfafe and unwise. uu, be
[P' la/t le ** cmhUlcJ.)
January 22
Ways and* m" B '"' of
Ways and Means, made an unfavourable «■
port upon several petitions, which was or"
deied to lit upon the table.
P,tffutcd Petition of
John Vaderefg, pr aying f or competition for
red Unn " the W ' r ' Wh »£<
J comm 'ttee of claims.
Mr. Sitgreaves, from the committee an
pointed on the fubjedl of W. BlounK
conlpiracy, reported two letters which had
j?. the comn iittee 4. one from
«t - dc Yr d -yi-g that he had
at a«y time giveß OI prom ; fcd .
L° r r ,?7 d V° John Phili P> &P™y «
stated m-thedepofK.on of Ahv.ham Hofden-
York Zt R^ 8 ! * WhiHt ht Was in NtV
York, that Ripley was arrested f or deb
and that from his having spoken well of his
charafter to Mr, Stougkor,, the Spanilh
Sf Sf *' S? 31 S became
bail for hitti. The letter from Mr. Ripley
» confirmative of this , (htcment.-Both
were ordered to be printed.
The President of the pnited "States i«.
formed the House, by mtffa t c, that he had
approved and f.gned an ad for the relief of
John rrank.
The house again Solved itfelf into a cam.
°! l J? e w >le W the bill providing the
mcaas of tore.gu InterWe ; when Mr.
Nicholas s amendment being under conside
ration, MefTrs, GriswoU, Bayard and Den.
Ms spoke in opposition to it, and Mr. Brent
iti its support. No question was taken, and
the committee had leave to fit again. 4
PENNSYLVANIA LEGISLATURE.
House of Representatives.
January 18.
Dr. Leib presented a petition from An
thony Wright, praying eompenfation f or
proving powder ; tfhich was read and re
ferred.
Mr. Philfon presented a petition from a
number of the citizens of Lycoming coun
ty, praying a new elsdKoo diftrift rvty- be
laid out, and that the place os-holding the
eleftion maybe in future at the town of Beu
1* !
Mr. Shnyder reporter} a-bill to ereft th?
town of Northumberland into a borough ;
which was read, and made the order of the
day for this day fortnight.
Mr. Marlhall reported a bill supplementa
ry to the aft for extending tbe powers of the
comniiffioners of Huntingdon county, ena
bling them to afiefs aod eoikft a further sum
for creating the public buildings in the tod
county, which was read and made the order
of the day for Friday week.
Mr. Brown made report in' favor of the
petition from the minister, vestry, &c. of St.
John's church, in the county of Chester,
which was read and ordered to lie on the
table. »
Mr. Ball reported a biU enabling theTruf
tees of the University of Pennsylvania to
vacate the feats of such of their members as
do not attend at the meetings of their board
—which was read and faade the order of the
day for Saturday week.
Mr W- M'Clay reported a bill for grac
ing a sum of money to the Trustees of the
Academy in Bucks County which was read
and made the order of the day for Tuesday
next. . • , A
Mr. Marshall reported a bill enabling the
commiflioners of Huntingdoncountyto com
pensate Benjamin Elllbt for certain fervicet,
which was read and made the order of the
day for Friday week.
Mr. Evans reported a bill,on behalf of
t he petitioners authoring them to raise by
way of lottery, five hundred dollars forer
efting a fchodl-houfe in the township of New
Hanover in the county of Montgomery,
which was read and made the order of the
day for Wednesday next.
Mr. Eyerly read a' bill in his place for
purchasing and distributing the laws of the
state and of th« United States, which was
"made the order of the day for Monday next.
Mr. Beunet reported agaiuft the bilis for
felling the ont half of the rcferved trads ad
joining Erie, Franklin, Wirren, Water
ford and Beaver, and for aothoriling the
Governor to appoint commiilioners for Tel
ling the remaining halt part of Beaver-town
lots.
Mr. Evans laid a resolution on the table
relative to the eleiS/on of three Bank Di
reftors. c
Mr. Shnyder called up his resolution tor
the appointment «f a committee to enquire
whether any and what alterations are flece
fary in the law for regulating hawkeis an
pedlars, which wa3 agreed to.
Dr. Preston offered arefolution for the»p
pointmeut of a committee to enquiif into
she to apprentices, which wa«
read and ordered to lie on the table.
Mr. Carpenter laid a reTcilution on the ta
ble for the appointment of a committee to
consider the propriety of erefting a pooi
honfe in the county of Lancaster.
A committee was appointed to jom a
committee of the Senart'ta -visit the 1 eon
fylvania Htffpital.% 4 _
<Mf. Wain reported aMI eftabliihiug a V-ice
fyftew of bauki uytcr, which was read and withi
matte theorder A the day for T'u.-uiay *eek. potti
The bill to authorize Governor to in
dorporate a compmiy for 'ere&itiga perraa- C.H/
dent bridge over the river Schtsylk.il! w*s~.
read a fecorid time and agreed to.
1 The koafe resolved itfelf into a committee If
of the whole on the bill to ereft the town i the C
ofChar.iberiburgh imoaiomughi Mr. Ball of E
in tHe chair, which was agreed to.
Adjourned. . nee«
Januity 19- prep;
• Mr. Frailsy presented a petition froi* a fort'
number of the citizen* of Bucks ciuttty, mgrt
praying that the jurifdi&ion of the conns may
<»f common pleas, quarter -fcflions arid or- after
phan's may be as heretofore placed'in jufti- diflo
cesof the peace, which was read andiefer- men)
red to the committee appointed oo the judi- ™uc
tfary system. . . P U j e
Mr. Whitehitt presented a petition from is dr
john Hazlewood, praying compenfatioa for well
certain services rendered during the Jate nt n
war, which wa* read and referred. ln E
Mr. Frailey presented a petition from a and
number of the eitizens of Berks county
praying a firm of money mav be granted
them to improve Tulpchocken road, which r
was read ami referred to the committee ou tanr
to ads and inland navigation, t . Stal
Mr. Campbell made report in favoc of the this
petition of Francis Johnfo*. receiver gene- —b
ral of the land office. ' n
The report of the committee appointed
to try the contested ele&ion of Montgome
ry county, relative to the expences, was cal- (
led up for i second reading, and after some fori
conversation, was poftpontd. Ma
Mr. Kelly reported a bill to endow an a- her
cademyin the Borough of York, which wai tei
read and made the order of the day for this ed
■ day fortnight. k°
The bill to provide for the erefiior. of a
house of employment in the county of Chef- arc
tfr, was read a third time aodpaffed. Tl
The bill for ere&ing the 'own of Cham- stl
berfburgh into a borough, was read a second fre
time and re-committed. Wl
The house resolved itfelf into a commit- In
tee of the whole on the bill to provide for pe
defraying the expences which mayibe incur- th
red in surveying a tra& of land for Corn- up
planter, a Seneca chief, Mr. Ball in the th
thai#—this bill was agreed to with amend- th
merits. Adjourned. to
___.-=,——========
RICHMOND, January 10. f"
In the House of Delegates, e j
Friday, Dec. 29th, 1797- w |
Whereas the house of Delegates are »f a
opinion that the right of impeachment is q
' eticlufively veiled in them by the conftitu-
tion, but are also desirous that the senate w
should, to give additional force to a mea- u
sure.intended to promote the public good,
pafc a resolution, disapproving the condaft u .
of the grand jury, of which this house Q|
have already declared their censure :
lit Resolved' therefore, That a copy of the e;
memorial of certain inhabitants of Albe
marie, Amherft, Fluvanna, and Gooch
land, complaining of a presentment of a
federal _g«and jury, in May, IJQ7, by which
the letters of certain members of the late
eongrefs to theif conftkuents were present- e
ed as a grievance, be sent up to the senate n
(or their information. c
In Senate, c
Friday, Dec. sth, 1797- fl
The senate having takes into confidera- v
tion the resolution of the hopfe of delegates, t
that the petition of sundry inhabitants of e
the counties of Albemarle, Amherft, Flu- a
vanna, and Goochland, (hould be ient up
to their body for information, withholding {
from them, at the fame time, the resolution f
of that house upon the said petition, have (
come to the following resolutions : j
Ift. Resolved, That it will ever be the
judgment of this house invariably to ad- (
here to the principles of the conftitu- (
tion, to the support of which their oaths j
and f heir duty bind them. ,
id. Resolved, That they conceive it a (
fundamental principle of that conft/tution, ,
that the senate cannot aft upon any cafe,
where a remedy for an exilling evil is con- j
templated, or petitionedfor, or the will of
the people is to be exprefled, except as su
pervisors of th« opinions of the house of
delegates thereon, ofcourfe, that no deter
mination upon such a fubjefl. can originate
with them.
3d. Resolved therefore, That this house
(not deciding upon the merits of -the said
petition) expref3 their determination, that
•theyconfide&all afts of the house of dele
gates,• that go to redress the grievances of
their fellow citizens, or to express the will
of the people upon any fubjeft, without
the participation of the senate (fxcept by
way of impeachment) as derogatory to the
constitutional privilege* of this house.
ALEXANDRIA, Jan. 16
Agreeably to the aft of the Legislature
for incorporating the Bank of Alexandria,
an elc&ion was held yesterday by the Stock
holders for the choice of nine Direftors, for
the ensuing year. The following persons
were duly ele&ed.
William Herbert 1078
Richard Conway 1008
William Wilson 9^3.
William Hodgfon 890
John Fitzgerald 842
Jonah Thompson 529
Jam*? Patton 7^9
John T. llicKets 655
Jjjhn janny 499
January 17. 1
At a meeting of the Bank Dire&ors held ■
yesterday, William Herbert was chosen |
If'refident and George Gilpin eletted to fid
the vacancy in the Diredlorfhip occasioned
by his appointment.
In Council January 4, 1794-
The governor laid before the board letters
patent under the hand and seal of the Pre-
of the United States, recognizing
Jonathan Swift, Etq. of Alexandria, as
Vice Coniul for the kingdom j»f
within diftritt of Colombia, and sea
ports ofrtFitA ri*cr Potomac, in Virginia.
CHARLESTON, {S.C.} December^.
" y TI
USEFUL HINT.
The wines drank at the entertainments of
theChinefe, have no resemblance to those D'
of Europe, either in taste or quality. They dah I
do not procure tbetn from the vine, but frotri W
rice of a particular kind. The method of Smh
preparing this wine is, to lay therice to steep days
far twenty or thirtydays inwater, into which his v
ingredients, of a different nature, as fancy hofps
may di&ate, are fucceflively thrown. It is Y<
afterwards boiled. As soon as it becomes the y
difiolved by the heat, it immediately feral pi;
ments and throws up a vaporous scum, not labor
much unlike that of new wines.-. A very add 1
pure liquor is.found under this scum, which
is drawn off;"and poured into earthen vessels ' ,1 '
well varnished. Of the remaining lees a spi
rit is made, little inferior in ftreugth to some Mi!k
in Europe ; it.is even fometimes.Srouger,
and much more inflammaljle. -• Doil!
of th
January 1.
His Excellency Robert Lifton, his Bri
tannick Majesty's Ambassador to the United et|
States, and his lady, arrived last evening in n ;
this city, on a tour thro' the Southern states r r
. —he has taken his lodgings at Mr. Kerr's
in Broad-street. . . / a
B
NASSAU, (N. P.) December 1.
On the 2 2d of last month two who
: formerly belonged to the ftu'p Thomas, j.
Macquee, a Liverpool gnineaman, arrived (
- here from Long Iflandj and a'few dtys as- 0(]
s terwards four-more of the fame crew arriv
s ed from Watling's Island. The two.from j £
Long Island give the following nairativf: j n j
a " Anthony Bayert, boatswain, and Rich- g cu
r* ard Woodbridge, mariner, late of the (hip an j
Thomas of Liverpool, declare, that on the o
1- sth of August, 1797, the said vessel failed .
d from Malamba, on the coast of Africa, j at{
with a cargo as to jhe Weft- at J
L- Indies: That no material occurrence hap- { j la
ir pened till about the end of the month, when an( ;
r- the flavc6, by means of the women, rose j
1- upon tie captain ani crew, many of whom -j
le they rtiardered, and took possession sparing a R
1- the lives of the deponents and some others ne y
to work the (hip back to Africa; That 57
days thereafter, being nearly destitute of j tQ
provisions, and altogether of water, they
saw two vessels, to which the negroes order- j- Qn
ed tor give chace; they came up with one an j
which proving to be a brigantine, without
. a £oul on board, 'having " The Robert of jj t
18 Cnarlefton" painted on her stern: The ne<-1
J " groes immediately jumped on board, drank I t^a
te what liquor they could find, and then re- I an{
a " on board the ship: after dark thff I Qr
deponents, taking the advantage of the fit-1 t j j{
uation of the negroes, with four others got
lfe on board the brig, cut the lashings from the
(hip, and made fail, and effected their ef- onl
cape, norje of the negroes being able to steer 1
the (hip after them. On the eighth day as- du
"" ter leaving the (hip the brig was driven a
* (hore in a gale of wind, in the night of Oft. I
jotkj whrlli fidp of Long Island." -j-gr;
lte Daniel Maney and Henry Miller, who j
,l " eame from Watling's Island, fay, the Tho
lte mas failed from Africa August sth, with a
cargo of 365 slave., and that on the 2d of
September the (laves rcfe and murdered all I
ship's company, excepting fever, or eight K
ra * who got into the jolly boat, and ten whom 0
es t. they spared to work the (hip. The negroes I rcl
. ordered the sailors to keep the (hip's hfad m '
always to the rising of the fun, and threa
,UP tened them with immediate death, should
'. n S they deviate from that course. In this po- g
,on fition the (hip was kept for about 40 days, 1
ave during which time ihe negroes drank all the j
lipuor except the wine, which they fair! j
' e was some of their blood; of course it fell to I
the failore. They also threw overboard ev- I
ery barrel'of beef, under the idea of its be- j
. ing negro fle(h. The fituationof the pnfoitu- J
nate survivors of the crew was the mof! I
*• 3 dreadful that can be imagined. At last, J I
° f n ' "when allthe provisions and water were ex-1 n<
* pended, the negroes permitted the long I jj!
on " boat to be hoisted out, as they were told by
' 0 the seamen that water could be obtained lIV
" and brought to them in A day and niglit. I fi
The objed of the sailors was to get away I P :
ter " from them; but'the negroes would fuffer I
late only two white men to go on board with c
ten blacks, who were furuifhed with eillks to p
hold water. A breeze fpringing'up, the p
a (hip hove to, and took the people oiit of the |
1 . at boat. It was now agreed on by the ne
e" groes, to put every white except a boy, to I c
! ° death the next morning, and the knowledge I •
of this their intention determined the sailors *}
lc " lt to make their escape if pofiible that night, jJ!
" rj Four meh accordingly got into the boat, ub- j,
der pretence of making her faft astern, and v
gave the reft a call, but they were so feeble o
having been three days without viftnals or 1
drink, that they could not follow.' Find- *
u . re ing there was no timi to lose, Danie*l Ma- I (]
?' ney let go the rope that held the boat, b
0( ; which dropt astern. Next morning the ,i
' (hip was not to be seen. In the boat were
an old top gallant fail, one oar and a mast. f
Hoisted fail, and stood as near as could be t
lo 7« guesTed, being without compass, aW.N. 1
[OOB course. On the 7th day after leaving <
the (hip made land, ruii the boat cjn (hose, 1
g9° j atl <l got into the woods in quell of water, J
having been without any so long as three .
9 ; days before they left the (hip. They for- 1
-55 j fre (Led they made for a house they had seen
499 ! fr onl an eminence; on reaching it they found ,
' they were on Wadling's Island; and with
r j gratitude they acknowledged that they ex-
P CH ' P er ' encf d every benevolent and humane <t
-3 . tention and kindness from the inhabitants,
oned j ;
The Members
OE Society of the Suns of S: George, cfta
bltlb • d it Philadelphia, for tlie advice and affilUnce
; , er3 of in diftrtfs, are requested to attf-u1
' a Quarterly Meeting ni th? fiid Socio'y at tfie City
" I>vein. on T ucl'Jay irtt »• .5 o'clpck in
tZtPg tha artcrnoon. 61£03.G£ D .VIS, Sec'ry.
i, as _ Jai.uary 17 3t
WJ Of-vrmil* mvr.iWFW* * man j>.mm OJJTICt
our 4.1
X!>c ©a;cttc.
I■ I ■ ' ■■■ '■ 1 f'.opl
' ' PHJLA DELPHI A, [»?««
j t«d, *
TUESDAY EVEJvfNG, JANUARY A: dt<
and bi
DIEDJ— Mary Fovtit, widow of Ju- tiutrs
dah Foulk, Esq. deieafed, aged 78 them
We hear 'with pleasure, that Rssox-ve
Smith, of New-.Jerfey, who died a few t^r °
days since, lias fcft.ttfb hundred pounds in no^at
his will, fur the use of the Penafylvania ftoul.
' " c.l
Yellerdzry the mate of a vessel fell from a^ ,i -
t\e yard-at-in and his scull in fever- J /
al places—he died in a few h< urs—A poor tec t t
laboring man also fell from a great, feeight, t.sen
and broke his arui.
~ t
Marriad, op Thursday "by the rev. prop
Jaime3 Mr. Thomas 0 I the ;
MifiipSANN* Mitut, dnughrrer.«/ Alexander ,
Miller^of this city. .
Collin, Mr. Joskp* Hbrtzap, merrhant to St
of this city, to the amiable »ud accompliihed Mifi ferio
Catu.abinc Wir, daughter of Mr. mjtt.
Wilt, merchant,>i>£ thiseity. g r j t
Letter from the Chevalier D'Yrujo, Mi
nister Plenipotentiary to the United States
- - from Spain, to the Chairman of the Com- j
mittee appointed to prepare and report
Articles of Impeachment against William
Blount, dated January 19, 1798.
Philadelfrh'm, ltyb January, 1798.
Sir,
| Having seen by the fupplemcntary report gij
of the committee which you laid before the rhr
' houfc on Thursday the 18th inft. that A- Deft
braham Holden has declared that J- P. Rip- BA '
1 ley had received from me a sum of money
in New-Yotk, to extricate him from a dif- Ij|fu
ficulty in whieh he found himlelf, I think it
3 an indifpenfabk duty I owe to myfelf, to
® prove the total of the faft
by the following ftaUment. Towards the ala
l ' latter end of last September, >on my return
at New-York, from Boftort,. I was informed q _
that Mr. Ripley had been irrefted for debt,
and That by the interpofitioQ of Governor
c Jay he had been prevented from going to
n prison. Mr. Ripley (hortly after applied to <
S a merchant in New-York for a sum of mo- fl pt
rs ney in order to extricate himfelf finally from. y c
7' this ertibarraffment, the gentleman applied
to me 'for information refpefting Mr. Rip- tfn
y ley, and on my telling blui I had every rea- g ,
r " son to consider hitti as a ybung fljan of honor 10[
le integrity, he advanced him in his notet, I Q f ,
the money he required, the amornt of which j n
3 Ido not exadUy recoiled. Moreover, I
think it necessary here to obferte to you fir, tQ
that from the firft moment of ny acquaint
ance with Mr. Ripley, I neVer have direftly ,
'* or indircftly, offered him any money oro- | jj,
ther reward, or in any ways hflited to com- t jj a
3t penfate him for his deposition, as he was u j t
confeious it was his d(ity, arid in that light qj.
" only have I viewed it. I haire further rja- u r
c . r son to believe this motive was the only in-
1 ' ducement he had to apply to me, at the at
:- a commencement of the fitting of the com- [
mittee as it was an entire voluntary aft of
L ' Ills •w'tl. "I** '
As the deposition of Mr. Holden has f r] -
°* been laid before congress, permit me, fir, f u j
r torequeft of the committee to do the fame
°i, with this letter, and, if necessary, to take
f t the proper steps for the further elucidation |-
11 of the above-riieatibned faft, in order to on
remove any. wrong impression it might.
a j make on the public. jq.
I have the honor to be, fir, 1 jyf
your most obedifnt servant, i vj
,ld LE CHEVALfER D'YRUJO. fd
Samiiel Sitgreaves, Esq. Chair- t j,
man of the Committee of the a j
;. , House of Representatives, for ( . u |
' (o the impeachment 'of Willi«m n(
Blount. ... k
ev
,
Extr»d of a letter from ad'Amcfrcan at Paris, da- ,
tu- t:doa.jc. "
10ft "On the ne»a of the peact with tht E«iperor, or
aft, I expected universal rejoicing* • b«t, either I am in
ex _ not enable of-oWervijig,. or ihe people here do p,
not discover that joy, whichjl rxpefted to fee vi- m
(}Wy depicSted 111 every countenance; nbtwithftand- ,
■by ing there is great cause to rejoice. To account ■
ned for this is not eafy«—»nlefs vya suppose that the va- 1
flit, rict'y of changes the fcffoplt have undet gone has w
_ produced a kind of apathy ; or' that, feeing the fa
a- war likely to be continued with England (notwith
.er (landing the peace 'Aith Austria) by which their p
"tn expehrcs aoi theit* fnffcrings are still likely to be
sto prolonged, they find that all those hopes' and prof-, h;
the pedsof a return to tranquility, which have been n;
lielJ out to then from time ti time by the govern- jj.
mens to he vain and
ne " " A proclamation of the the ijth
,to oAober, acquaints the nation with the intention j ll
dge of Invaftng England; and cali«upon thsm to g« ill
] ors there and make \he prace. If it is seriously their
intentiun, and I believe it i», to go there, I am j.
3 ' fully persuaded that neither the,expencenor the
ua " immepft facrifice of lives which jt will occaflort,
and w ill <Jet?r them from the attempt. The number
eble of iop,cpo troops is ccnfidentlyfpoken of, as det- fl
, or tined tp ,tlii» attempt, an,d some magnify it to ,
and further, that mrj vejfcl in France,
to whatrvrr power belqitginjj, will be put in re- J
a " quifitipn; Thus jn» may look for a general em
oat, bargo ; and Ihculd you not hear from ne, account
the for it on this foore. «
lVeie " I'he direflory hold out, that their invasion is
» set on loot merely'to a.ftroy the aflual govern- 0
mant of Evjland, and wot to deftrov the manufac- F
" e (Sires or injure indivi('» lis. How the deSraftion
■ N. of the due can be effed-d without involving the
ving other, I- dtinnot conceive * the
lorc . fall wi[h#\tt iviVUVi' g tlyJ *grclt mafi of people in
' the'fame conuilail ruin—l'hdugh [ can conceive
* Cr ' that the whole body of the people'nay fuffer from
hree an inv»Con, acd yet of the government ]
for- be (lengthened.
e re- '' The changes Europe has undergone within
seen th'fe lew years, aiid the fui ther changes that are
, likely to take place, (houliTbe fejayded with Vrt
>U . n , tention by us. jf any tli'uig iri eur con
with ft; tu t;on, it has within itfelf the power of amend
s ex- Dicnt ; no violence w necefiaty ; and happily, b«-
e at.- twieo thj'time of propofiog ati altoration, arid an
all j s amerfdoitnt uliihg; place, theieis full time for re
—- flh&idh. Mankind to ma too fond of
change', from whence, peihap's, there is more ill
thungootl to berece'V'-d. not tTiink that I ad
vo'c-atc she laret roniog of rntient prejudice', 'hat
.tance o j,p K fs . no , larlrom it ; neither would
_ tt f \ l 1 wish to Mifos the take of trying txperi
, rucnts. Tiie comlitntiTn fcf the United? States is
Cm !• u- of a few years(ftaiiding,yetitishighl7 i'.-lpf-lc: 1
_ jhresd ; it wvyld be a'fhame to us, Dp be left so at
v
horTBC, the • ha, pnJ* <ti—
cur 4fu itten in ererf point- of vjcw. ectnj-are '*
*it>» fte »slaal fi;u*t"CTi of other cco:i»r:i", thru
»!k yourfetf tf, under any other Rovernruent, the
people art mote fret or more hlppv : if i;n<J:r *-
»y jf«»crhm<rnt [helaw? are more fiit' JuUy execu
ted, r>r juilice letter adminifttred ; view our laves Wiil
apjl compare them with thole of other countries.—
I thmk you Will'find them moremild, mote just,
and better defined. Regard th<- taxe and imrofi
tiufcs of otl.er coimnirt, and compare our. with , Ol
them ; heavy it timy nay apr«r, we OiaU; f,«d £YVr
themiigM and left bu;<i»tflj'"« on the lower or- ""
rierof pcop'e, than in ah.y oth-er fountry. tn
then be caui»m fchwwc find fault, or attetr.pt iu- j
novations ;_*f# this momflqt left than anj other
. (hou|d we tftitk of them : no the cictrary, we
(hould.fuppeMt our constitution ty a joint <Co*t,
and gtv< yjiintenanee to evtry < fficer tleAcd by y (
•he people ; and by our ilfcrgttienwg Oic h nan
~f government, ic w ill "have rr.or* j>«w«r to r.to I
teci the p'lfuE aud property of every indiviooal ci- . }
t.M " ■ Sc
The amendment which earl Fitzwilliam
propofeJ in the British houfc of Lords to \|
the address in anfwet to the kind's speech; Ci
and against the non-adoption i;t* whiiih he D
protested, \ to withold approbation of ''
His majefly's efforts to procure peace, as of- ,CR
fering to the enemy conceflions which com
initted the honor, dignity and interelk of the Si
Britifli Empire. He appeared to wi(h a £-
continnance of war till a monarchical govern-
ment was restored is France, howevtr dif-
tant the period, lie approved of the Brit- j
i(h Manifefto at the commencement of hof- c
tilities, conceiving it to convey aa affurancc t<
of that kind.
PRICE OF STOCKS. t
Philadelphia, J&iuary 16, 1797* [ as
Si* Fer.Cent. % 16/9 to lod .
Three p»r C«nt. I<?f* j n( .
Deferred 6 per Cent. 1.V9 j
BANK United State*, 24 per cent. the
■ - Pennfylv»iiii, »3 per cent. an( j
■—r North America, 45 per cent. ]
Infarance Co Eewifylxania, 5 to 6 per cent.
———N. A. (hares 40 per ceat.
,£s*"The eastern mail due this day, arrived at
a late hour —it brought no new«.
' GAZETTE MARINE LIST,
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
» In ■
' On the 4th Jan. off Egg Harbour, the
' sloop Polly, Capt. Ridgway, from New- B®,
1 York for Egg Harbour, fell in with the (hip in
' Appearfen, Capt. Dunnenberg, from Got- the
' tenburg for New-York, who had been out afti
"I 6 months, was very leaky and out of provi- an(
r fions, had loft two of his hands, and molt v,c
'| of the reft were ill. Capt Ridge way hav
-1 ing spared what provisions he could, . con- ,IU
du&ed the fliip into our bay and from thence j o)
» to Marcus Hook, where she arrived and got vn
" into the Piers on the 15th inft. Dr
f Capt. M'Cleod, of the Danish fch'r Ur
" 1 Hannah, arrived at Marcus Hoek, informs,
" that he failed from Cape Francois the 17th Pc
s ult. Same day the fch'* Hopewell, Br
' Clark, cleared out for Philadelphia. The Bil
' United States brig Sophia, Captain Maley,
" {ailed 6 days before for Havanna, to touch
c at the Mole.
*1 De«. 22, lat. 22, long. 71, spoke fch'r
Mary, 7 days from Savannah to Jamaica. fel
i Tea dJtys ftnee, he ftH in with the Britifli t h.
19 frigate Proserpine, from Halifax, Vhich had ca
' fuffered it) a gale of wind, and was then P^
e ! 'fleering for Hampton Roads. *. (
e The 7th inft. off the Capes of Delaware, w
n spoke the Britilh frigate Thetis, Cochran, in
0 on a eruize. £ ''
lt ; ThebTig George, Hall, from hence for ™
| Cape Francois, captured and sent to the
! Mole, was liberated, and after leaving the f
Mole, two of his hands died, and four other jjb
fell sick of the yellow fever ;in that Hate T
the vessel put into Port de Paix, where by,
a letter from the supercargo the 21ft ar
Ult. it appears that neither the passengers b
nor crew were permitted to land. el
Capt. Forrefter of the John, arrived at
N£w-Caftla from St. Jago de Cuba, informs,
a ' that he left at that port the 27th ult. the 7
>r, brigFairAmerican,Smith, ofthisport, toCail e i
im in 2 days ; brig Aftive Williams, do. a le
do prize ; brig Nymph. Richard, of Baki- n
"■ more, to fail ill 10 days, fchr. Hannah, of
rt " Hartford, and a fchr. belonging to J. ~
, a - Thompson, Esq. of New-York, both of tl
i»s whom were brought in, taken on their pas- ti
ke £age to Jamaica. n
A (hip supposed to be the Harmony, S
e Price,(which vessel has been laying in Co- c
of- haofy Creek for some time pall) a«d a brig a
:en name unknown, lay at Reedy point yefter- ii
:n " day morning. n
h The sloop Dolphin, Captain Holt, from £
Jon hence to Leogane, it taken and carried
go into Gonaives.
cir The (hip Harry, Captain Ehrnftroom,
» m taken on her passage from hence to Gon- /
" e aives and carried into Cape Noehola Mole,
was liberated after felling her flour, and has
let"- fincejarrived at Gonaives. (
to MIM——OTM-MOTfm————r
ice, ~ ' ~ /
re- Bread will be di/lributed to the Poor
m " Who. may apply for the fame from the Friends
ÜBt rneating-houfe, corner of Second and Market
street, on Tuesday the 3«th January inft. at 10
" ls o'rlock in the morning, by the guardians of the •
r" -poor, agreeable to the wills of John Petty, »nd
William Carter.
X PETER MIERCKF.N, Prefidoit
not of the Board ot Guardians.
• 'in Philad. Jan. a 3. ■ p- '
; ive Doctor Rush's
lent Literary, Moral, and Philofophi&l
Essays.
_ (One VolumeO&avo.)
, a{ _. This Day is Published,
:on- By Thomas & Samuel F. Bradford,
s "d- No. 8, South Front Street,
h*- f Prkt two J)ollaxj,J
SI> Essays. Literary, Moral and Philofuphical,
J r o ' f By Benjamin Rush, M. D.
e in And Profeffoi ol the InftHutes of Medicine, ahd
[ a d- Chemical Praiiice, in the [Jiiiverfity of PeaWyl
•hat W>h
ouli , J" ik Prep,
pet i- And fpeodily will 1. mibliflied,
cs is PERRIN<«
•fler' Elements of French CQnverfation.
Nt J; nu.ny 16 3'«od
- -- --
N FAN' -THE ATRF.
TO MORROW EVENING,'
JANUAFV 24,
Wiil It' preTentrtl ( for the firtt time in Atiieu
ti,} a celrkrwcd nfW Comedy* calleu
The Will ;
OR, 4 SCHOOL TOR D VUOIITVR--
f Written bv the jnthor of the Rage, Dram*u. .
How to grow Rich', &c &c. and pcrfo.
tn crouded hcuiei ill the lait lealon at Diuiy
Lanr Thvatrtil \ :
Sir SvJormm v-vnir -Mr- Bernard
Mandrvifo, ' Warren
Howard, Mprftojx
Ve.itas, W^aell
Re;.!i«, v H.rwsod
Robert,
OMCopncv, w " rd ' •
Servants, Mfffrt. Hunter. Laferty, <**■
Alhiua Mandcville, (with the EprtngyO
Mr a, Marrofl
tin K.gid, v L'Kttrange
• Ckcfy Copflty.
Deborah,
To which will he added, a Musical Firce, (writ
ten by the author of the Poor Soldiei), called
The Dead Alive.
Sir Walter se»t hcrcoUt, Mr. Warren
Edward, .
Sable, (an undertaker) Morns
Sheers, (a Taylor) tfarwood
■ Moticv, Bernard
Dennit, W*rre(l
Grjxb.y, Huoter.
Mil's Hebe Wintertop, Mr«. L'Eftrang®
Comfit,
CUroliuC, Warrell.
Box, one Dollar ; Pit,'three quarters of a Dol
lar ; Slid Gallery, half a Dollar. »
rj" The doors of the Theatre will open at 14*,
sine the curtain rife at fir o'clock..
lor the Boxe- to be taken at the Office in
the front of the Theatre, from 10 till 1 o'clock,
and from IC till 4 on the days of performance.
Tickets to be had at H. and P. Rice's book-ltore,
No. jo Market street, and at the Office adjoining
the Thearc. rffA T RES PUBLIC A !
Hefently Publijhed,
And just imported frum England, hyiWitLiAM
Griffiths, No. 177' South Second street, and
may be had of Moro -vpr j Rfltn,
A Cheap and valuable work, in two clofcly
printed volumes ,in. Bvo. (price 3 dollars)
Illustrations of Pr»phecy :
In which are ehicidateiVnapy predi&ions, which
occur in Isaiah, Daniel, the writings of the £ /an
gelifts, and book of Revelation ; which are th&'t
to loretell among oth.r great events, a revolution
' in France, favorable to the intefefts of mankind,
the overthrow of the papal power and of eccleu
aftical tyranny, the downfall of c.vil despotism,
and thefubfequent taelioration of the ftite «f ths
world '• together with
A large collision of Extra ft:,
Interspersed through the work, and taken fiom
numerous commentators, particularly from
Joseph Mede, Sir Isaac Newton,
Vitringa, Mr. William Lowtli,
Dr. Tlu Goodwin, Fleming,.
• Dr. Hem y More, Bengelius,
D». John Owen, Daubuz,
' Dr. Creffener, Whitby,
Pe:erjuri?u, Lowman,
, Brenius, Bilhop Newton, and
; Bilhop Chandler Bilhop Hurd.
By JOSEPH LOMASi TOWERS.
Besides various other inquiries treated of in
this work, a'pd numerous illustrations of prophecy j
it contains a confidcrahle number of fails or ob
servations on the symbolic language of prophecy,
• the authenticity, «i«, and sbfeurity of the apo
i calypfe, and the genaiuenefs of the Hebrew pro
n phctf; on the rapid cnriuption ef christianity ia
the fourth century ; on the difperiion andreftora
tion of the Jews, the hittory of the fall* Meffiahi
> who.have appeared among them, and the reafont
, in support o* the conj-Aure that th« Afghans are
the dslcendants of the ten tribes ; on the right of
r re&fiaoce to oppression; on the irruptions of th?
northern nations, and the eaufes of the decline and
: fall of the Roman empire ;on the cuftotr.s of tht
e Tartars, anil the independence of the Arabs ; oa
r the conquests of those nations, and those ot the
e Turks; on the usurpation of J .he Mamalukes, and
th« fall hillory and present state of Egypt; on
£ the charaiScr and condavft of Conftantine, Jullini
lt an, Clovis, and Lewis XIV ; on the scarcity of
3 b oks in the dark ages, and the caules of the de
cline of literature ; «n ths rapid rile of the French
it monarchy, and the eaufes of its lall ; on the in
copfiftencics in the political of bilhops
' Newton and Hurd ; oil the peculiarities of Dr.
'. e Th Burnet's theory of the earth ;on the beneficial
'1 effeds which ehriftiahity has produced in favor of
a learningand civil liberty, an«< its tendency to pro
j_ mote theeftablilhrnent of equal governments.
f ludependent of the large proportion of original
Blatter contatned in these volumes, those who are
• * lnt<;e£fced in thefubjSft will, it isprefumed, wilh
'f to peruse or them, because the extracts in
s- troduced ia tJiem, which are accurately cited, aad
marked wi : h inverted commas, are taken from a
greater nuftiber of writers on the prophecies (*i
,r ' lead if the roman catholic commentators bo ex
eluded) t >an are ealily accessible to any one indivi
g dual even in Europe, or are probably to be found
r- in-any orte library in the world. They are hir
nilhei with indexes, and a copious table of con
tents. Tan 2a—iuwiw
"n , , .
Priitm Manufactory.
i> FOK SALE,
1- At the Prilbn of the City and Couniy of Philadel
e, pbia, ,
, )S Cut Nails of all sues, fronvjdy to aody
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and card Tacks
i Oakum and chipped Logwood
■ Shoemakers and Sadlcrs Thread
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
ir tomb and hea i stones, hearths, chimney pieces,
ds platforms, llabs, tacia, window hen It, fills, c .
ct All which may he had on reasonable terms,
jo . Shoes made and Weaving faid Prison at
',l a model ate price.
[lc i Orders from a didancc. ditcAed to Daniel Tho
mas, agent for the prifoo, will be attended to.
, Nt December 26 mth6m
D ANCj^NCT3CIiO OLr
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL prefentj hit
most refpe.Oful compliments to his form
. er employers and the citizens in general, and re
turns bib mod grateful thanks, for the very
bountiful he has expetienced for
tne!e rwe'nty-Cvß years part, taket this opportu
nity of informing them, that his I'chool is now
~j open) at his
> Elegant Ball Room,
in Sontfc Fourth-Street, between Chefnut and
1 Wafr.utjftreett. To begin at 10 in 'he morning
' for yoimg ladies, and iin the evening for young
gentlemen,
sn , d ' Dec. 8. agwtf.
lyl- „ I. r
Employment for the Poor.
FLAX for SPINNING,
T" be given out every fccond, fourth, and fixtK
day morning, between the hours of jo and i»—
~ back of 00fouth Fifth ftrset, ahove Spruce
)d street. 6od:w
.PROPOSALS
FOR
CARRriNG THE PUBLIC MAI LI
on the following Post Roads v/ill be re
csived at the Genefal Post Office until
the 14th day of February next incluiivc.
r R WttfSYL VA NIA, tsV-
I. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, Newcaf
tie., Cantwell's bridge, Duek creek, Dover, Fred
erica, Milford, Cloughs, Daglborough, Trap,
Snowhill, Horntown and Accoidic court hMlfe to
Northampton court house three times a week.
A/rril Ito Nwembtr IJ. Leave Philadelphia ev
ery Tuesday, Thoifday and Saturday at 2 a M.aml
urrrive at Northampton court house on Thufday,
Saturday ind Monday at 7Jp m. Returning. Leave
Northampton court hr.nfe every Friday, MonJay
and Wedni fday.'at 2 a m, nnd ar> ive at Philadel
phia on Monday, Wednesday aud Friday by 7 I-a
p m.
Nncmkcr f5 to Afril I. Leave Philadelphia ev
ery fnafdiy, Thursday and Saturday at 6 a si,
and arrive at Northampton court houfc on Friday,
Monday and Wednesday by 7r m. Retnr*ing-~
Leave Northampton court hoafe every Saturday,
Tuesday and Thursday at 6 am, and arrive at
Philadelphia on Wednesday, Friday and Monday
by 7 p u,
VIRGINIA.
2. From Northampton court house to Norfolk
thrae timesa week.
April 1 tc November 15. Leave Northampton
court bouse every Monday* and Fri
day at 8 pH, and arrive at Norfolk in 24 hoors.
v Met*ming—Leave Norfolk every Wednesday, Fri
day and Monday a 4 a m, and arrive at Northamp
ton court bouse m twenty four hours.
November IS to April I. Leave Northampton
court house everyTuefday. Thnrfday and Saturday
at 3a Up and arrive at Norfolk iu *4 hours. Re
tt, Kig —Leave Norfolk every Monday, Wcdnef
day and Friday by 4 a m, and arrive at Northamp
ton court house in 24 hours.
PENNSYLVANIA & MARYLAND.
3. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, N-w
---port,Chriftiafla,Middletown,Warwick andGoerge
to wn cross roads to Chrfterfto wn three times a week.
May Ito November I. Leave Philadelphia every
Sunday,'Tuefday and Thursday bp 9 p m, and ar
rive at Cheftertown the next days by 8 pm. Re
turning—Leave Chedertown every Monday, Wed
aefday and Friday by 9 p m, and arrive at Phila
delphia the next days by 8 p m.
November I to May I. Leave Philadelphia eve
rj Monday and Friday by 9 a m, and arrive at
Cheflertown on Tuesday aud Saturday by 4 r h.
Metuninsr —Leave Cheftertown every Monday and
Friday ky 8 a u, and arrive at Philadelphia on
Tuesday aud Saturday by 4 p m.
MARYLAND.
4. From Cheftertown by Centerville, Ealton,
Newmarket, Vienna, Salilbury, Snowhill andPrin
csfs Ann to Salisbury once a week.
Receive the mail at Cheftertown every Wednes
day at '7 am, arrive at Eafton by 4P M. Leave
Ballon on Thursday by 6 a m, arrive at Snowhill
on Friday by I *. m, *hd at Prificels Ann by 6 p.
A. Returning —LeavePrincefi Ann on Saturday by
jo a m , arrive at Eafton the nesst day or Monday
by 6p m Leave Eafton on Tuesday by 8A M, and
arrive at Cheftertown fame day by 4 p m.
5. From Harford by 801-Air to the blaskhorfe
ones a week. 1
Leave Harford everyTuefday by 10 A m, and
arrive at Black borfe by 6 pm. Returning—Leave
Blackhorfe on Wednesday by 6 a m, and afriveat
Harford the next Tuesday by 9 a m.
PENNSYLVANIA, and VIR
GINIA'.
I 6. From Baltimore by Blackhorfe to Yorktown
Pa. once a week.
Leave Baitin.ore every Triday by 4 p M, arrive
at Blackhorfe on Saturday hy 10 a u, and arrive
at Yorktown by 8 PM. Returning —Leave Yoirk
town every Thursday by 7 a a, and arrive at Bal
tinvore on Friday noon.
7. From Yorktown by Hanover, Petersburg,
Taneyton and Fredericktown to once a
week.
Leave Yorktown every Monday at 8 a m,arrive
at Freciericktown on Tu fday by 5 p m, andarrive
at Leefburg on Wednesday by 2p m. Returning—
Leave Leefburg every Friday at noon, andarrive
at Yorktown by 6 p m on Sunday.
8. From Yorktown by Abbotftown,Gettifburg,
Fairßeld, Elisabethtown, Williansfport, Martinf
burg, Winchester, Stevenfburg and Strafburg to
WotHlftock once a week.
Leave Yorktown every Sunday by noon, arrive
at Martinfburg on Tuesday by II am. Leave
Martinfburg on Tuesday noon andarrive at Wood
stock on Wednesday by 6r m. Returning—Leave
Woodftock on Thursday by 6 a m, arrive at Mar
tinfburg on Friday by II a m, andarrive atYork
town on Sunday by 11 am . '
9. From Pittfburg hy Canr.onfburg, Washing
ton. Weft Liberty and Wheeling to the mouth of
Fishing creek once a week (contrail for one year
only.)
Leave Pittfliurg every Friday at 9 a m, and ar
rive at Fishing creek on Sunday at 9 a m. Return
ing—Leave/Fifhir.g creek on Wednesday at 8 a m,
and arrive at Pittfburg on Friday at 8 a m. ,
10. From WaJhington by BrownfviUe and Union
to Morgantown once a week. . .
I.eave Union every Friday at 6 am, and arrive
at Washington by 6p m. Leave WaJhington on
Saturday at 6 a m, arrive at Morgartown on Sun
day at 6P m. Leave Morgantowti on Monday at
8 am, andarrive at Union by 3 r m.
11. From Baltimore by Fredericktown, Eliia
bcthtown, Greencaftle and Chamberfburg to Ship
penfburg once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Friday hyii a m, arrive
at Fredericktown on Saturday by 10 a si, atEli
zabethrmvn in the evening, and at Shippenfburg
ou Monday by 7 r >«• Returning—Leave Shippenfc
l>urg every Tuesday at 9 am, arrive at Eliaabeth
town at 8 P m , at Fredericktown o* Wednesday
nooti, and at Baltimore on-Thurfday by j m,
MARYLAND.
12. From Eliaabethtown by Hancock and Old
town to Cumberland once a week.
LeavoCumberlaudevcrytaturday by 6 a M,and
arrive at Klizabethtown on Monday by 8 a m.
Returning—l.eave Eliiabethtown every Monday by
10 a m, and arrive at Cumberland on Tuesday by
6 pm. .
13. From Bfltimore to a week.
Leave Baltimore every Monday at 8 am, aud
arrive at Anrapolis by JT m. Returning■— Leave
Annapolis everyTuefday at 8 a m, and arrive at
Baltimore by 5 pm.
14. From Baltimore by Annapolis, Queen Anns,
Upper Marlborough, Pifcataway.Porttobatco, Al
- Newport and Chaptico to Leonardtown
once* week..
Leave Baltimore every Friday at 10 arrjve
at Annapoli> at 5 r m. Leave Annapoli. on
turday at 6 a u, arrive at Upper Marlborough
by uoon,arrive at Pifcataway by 6 pm. & arrive at
Leonardtown every Monday forenoon by 90' clock.
Returning—Leave Leonardtown every Monday at 3
r u, arrive at Pifcataway on Tuesday by 6 p m
arrive at Upper Marlborough on Wednesday by
Ham, andarrive at Annapolis by 6p m. Leave
Annapolis on Thursday by 7 a m, and arrive at
Baltimore by3P m.
15. Froin Annapolis by Lower Marlborough,
Huntington and Calvert eovrt house to St. Leon
ards Once a week
I .cave Annapolis every Saturday at 9 a m, and
• arrive at St. Leonards on Monday by 3p m. Re.
turn£-r; —Leave St. Leonards every Monday at 4
' F u, and arrive at Annapolis the next Saturday by
6 am.
16. From Bladmffcurg by Upper Marlborough,
■ ! Not iilghim, tow»r Vfarlbortiuglii
ned:A and Charlmehall to Ciaptico once a week
Leave cviry Saturday at 9 a m i ar
rive at Upper Marlborough by noonand at Lower
Marlhoro<ighon Monday by 5 r m, & at Chaptieo
S by 6r m. Returning—LeaveChapticoeveryThuif
day at 6a m, and arrive at BiaJotfijiirjon Satur
day at 6 a m.
1 17 From Georgetown by Montgomery court
house to Frrderick'ownoncea week.
Leave Georgetown every Friday by 6 a m, and
arrive at Fr--dericktown by 6 pm- Returning— |
Leave Fsedericktown jvery Thursday by }a m,
" and arrive at Georgetown by 6 pm.
VIRGINIA.
' 18. From Woodftock by Newmarket, Rockinj
' han> court bowse, Staunton, Lexington And Fitteaf
tle to Big Lick ouee a week.
Leave Woodftock .very Thursday by 6 a m, ar
' rive at Stauntoo on Friday at I P Leave Sraun
• ton every Fridr-y at 1 Pm, arrive at Big Lick on
Sunday by it am. Returnisg—Leave Big Lick
on So .day by 1 p m, arrive at Staunton every Tues
day by 11 a«. Lcavd Stauntom by X 2 o'clock
)noou) aud arriv* at Woodftock on Wednesday by
5 m.
19. From Big Lick by Montgomery court house
and Wythe court house to Abingdon once a week.
| Leave BifLick every Sunday at 1p m, arrive
at Wythe cofirt house on Tuesday bfz p m, and at
Abingdon on Wedaefday by 6r«. Returning —
Leavi Ahiogdon every Thursday by 6 a m, arrive
at WythC court house on Friday by » p m,
' rive at Big Lick on Sunday by n a m.
TENNESSEE.
20. From Abingdon, Vir. by Jnnc&orough
Greenville, Moffat's Uore and Jeffcrfon cqurt houie
' to Knoxvilie once a week.
Leave Abingdon every Thursday by 6-A m, ar
rive at Moffats (lore on Saturday by 8 a m. Leave .
Moffitt by 9 * m, and arrive at Knoxvilie on Sun
day try 10 a m. Returning—Leave Knoxvilie eve
ry Sunday by % r m, arrive at Moffats on Monday
by 3 pm. Leavo Moffats <.n Monday at 4p m,
and arrive at Abihgdon oh Wednesday by 7 p m.
VIRGINIA.
31. From Wvcheftcr by Romney to Moorfields
once a week.
Leave Winchester every Thursday at 6 A m, and
arrive at Moorfield ®n Friday by 6 PM. Return
ing- Moorfield every Saturday at 8 a M,arfd
arrive at Winchester on Sunday by 6 P M.
11. From Alexandria by Centcrville, Leefburg
and Sheplierdftown to Martinfburg once a week.
Leave Alexandria every Wednesday at 9 a m,
and arrive at Martinfburg on Friday by 10 am.
Returning—Leave Martinfburg every Friday by
noon & arrive at Alexandria on Monday by 7 a m.
23. From Frederickfbburg by Port Royal, Lay
tans, Tappahannock, Urbanna and Gloucester court
house to Yorktown once a week.
Leave Frederickfburjj every Wednesday at 6 a
m, arrive at Tappahannock on Thursday by 11
a m. Leave Tappahannock at noon and arrive at
Yorktown on Saturday by 11 am. Returning—
Leave Yorktown every Saturday at 1 P M, arrive
at Tappahannockthe next Monday noon and arrive
at.Frederickflcurg onTueffeyby 5 PM.
14. From Tappahanpock by Richmond court
house, Weftmoreland court house, Kinfale, Farn
ham church and Northumberland court house to
Lancaster court houfeoncc a week-
Leave Tappahannock every Thursday noon and
arriv# at Lancaster court house on Saturday by 1 >
a m,. Returning—LeaveLancafter court bouse ev
ery Saturday by 1 P M. and arrive atTappahan
noak on Monday by 11 a m.
25. From Fredericklburg by Culpeper cofirt
hoiife &Oraoge c. h. to Cbarlottffvilleonce a week.
Leave Fredrnckfburg every Tuefclay at 10 a m,
and arrive at Charlottefvijle on Thursday by it A
m . Returning— Leave Charlottefville on Saturday
at 8 J* M, and arrive at fredericklburg on Tues
day by 6 am.
j6. Frarn Richmond by Gooehlind court
hoult Columbia and Charlottefville to Staunton
once a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 1 p m, ar
rive at Charlotj*lviile on Thursday by it a m.
Leave CbatlortcTvilie tv noon and arrive at
Staunton on Friday by 11 am. Returning—
Leave Staunton om Saturday by 6 A M, arrive at
Charloitefvifte by 7 p m, and arrive at Rich
mond the next Tuesday by 9 A M.
17. From Stauiiton by Bath court-house and
Sweet Springs to Greenbrier court-house ouce a
week.
Leave Stiunton every Saturday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Greenbrier court-house on Tuesday by
6 pm. Returning—Leave Greenbrier oourt
houfe every Monday by 9 AM, and arrive at
Staunton on Thursday by 8 p m.
28. From Charloxtefvile by Warren, War
minfter, New-Market, Araherft court house,
Cabeilfburg, and Maddifon to Lynchburg once
a week. '
Leave Charlottefville every Thursday at I P
m . and arrive at Lynchburg on Saturday at 6
p m. Returning—Leave Lynchburg every
Tuesday by 6 A m, and arrive at Charlottefville
on Thursday by 10 A m.
29. From Richmond by Hanfltfertown, Ay
ietts and Todds to Tappahannock once a week
•r if carried in stages as often as they fiiall run.
Leave Richmond every Wednesday at 5 A M,
arrive at Todds at 3 P M, and at Tappahannock
on Thursday at 11 A m. Returning—Leave
Tippahannock on Monday at 1 P m, and ar
rive at Richmond on Tuesday by 5 p m.
30. From Richmond by Hopkins's, Powha
tan cdurt houfr, Cumberland coust house, Prince
Edward court hoirfe and Lynchburg to New-
London, once a week.
Leave Richmond every Tueliday at® a m,
arrive at Prince Edward on Wednesday at 6 p
m, and arrive at Lynchburg on Friday at 8 A m,
and at New-London by 10 am. Returning—
Leave New-London every Friday at 2 P M, ar
rive at Lynchburg by 5 fm, arrive at Prince
Edward on Saturday by 7 p m, and arrive at
Richmond on Monday by 4 P M.
3.1. New-London by Liberty to Finca/"-
tle once a week.
Leave New London every Friday at 1 p m,
and arrive at Fincaftle cn Saturday by 6 p m.
Returning—Leave Fincaftle on Monday at 5 A
■ M, and arrive at New London on Tuesday noon.
32. From Liberty by Hocky Mount to Mar
tinville once in two weeks.
Leave Liberty every other Saturday at 6 A
m, and arrive at Martinville on Sunday by 6 p
m. Leave Martinville on Monday by 6 AM,
ind arrive at Liberty .on Tuesday by 6 pm.
33. From Princn Edward court house bv
Charlotte court house to Halifax court house
once a week.
Leave Prince Edwar'cotsrthoufe every Thurs
day at 6 A M, and arrive at Halifax court house
on Friday at 10 AM. Returning—Leave Hal
ifax court house onFridayby 2 P M, and ar
-1 tVe at Prince Edward court house on Saurdav
by 6 P M.
VIRGINIA andNORTH-CAROLINA.
34. From Hilifax court-houfeby Halifax old town,
Carters, Martinville, Patrick couri-bouCe, Upper Sau
ra, Gcrtuantown and Bethaniato Salem once in two
weeks.
Leave Hatifax court-house every other Friday at
e, P M, and arrive at Salem the next Monday bv 6,
P M. Returning Leave Salem «vrry oiher Tuesday
at 6, A M, and iirive it Halifax oourt-houle oil Fri
-1 day by 10, A M.
55. Fiora Harris's by Hickci'sford to Halifax twice
a week.
Leave Harris's every Wednefdpy and Saturday by
5, A M. and arrive at Halifax by 6, P M. Relum
ing—leave Halifax every Thursday and SuLday by 6, .
A M, and arrive at Harris's by j, P. M.
VIRGINIA.
36. From Stai'bfield by Southampton ccurt-houfe
to Hick:t'< fold once a week.
ie«ve KickjVford everyjother Fn4»yby t , P M,
anj arrive at SmitMicld on Saturday by 5, PM,-
Re:arntig—l ( eaveSm»«hfitid every other Sunday by
c, A M, 2nd arrive at Hicks's ford on Monday by
a, PM.
37. FromGoldfont by G-eibridge, St. Timmwy'i,
Mcckl«nberg aod coi>rt-houfc« and Ed
munds store to Go!dfon*s f nee a week.
Leave Goldfon'a every VVednefdayatio, A M,
return e^enext Saturday by a, P M, waiting at each
Poll-Of&ce 2 houri after delivery oi the mzi .
VIRGINIA & NO X TH- G AWL IN A.
38. From SufFolk-by fdemon, Plymouth and Wa
flfcngtoo to Newbero, once a week Leave Suffolk
every Monday at ro<in, arrive M Edeuton on Tues
day at l» P M, at Flyinouth, on Wednesday by 6.
A M, at by 6, P M, and at New Bern on
Tburfday by 5, P M. fteturnm^ —Leave Mew be m
every Friday by 6, A M, arrive at WalhingMm ky
5, P M. Arrive at Plymouth on Saturday by 4
P M, at Edt mori on Sunday by 9, A M, aud at Suf
folk on Monday by 9, A M,
NOR TII-C A ROLIX A.
39. Frftm Edentouby Hertford, Nixonton, Eliza
beth city, and Jooelburg to iudian-town« once a
week.
Leave EctelKoj»*i*ery
arrive at In<tiao-town on by 6, P M. Rc~
turning—Leave MiantowneveryTueuiay by 5, A M,
and arrive at Edentoii on Wedncfdayat 1!, A M.
40. From Halifax by Northampton court-house,
Princeton, Murfreelboropgh, WintOu and Wind for
to Edentoo. ©wee a week.
Leave Halifax every Monday at 9, AM, and arrive
at Edentonoo Weanefday by 3» P M, leave Eden
ton on Wednesday by 6, P M, and arrive at Halifax
on Saturcay by 1», A M
41. From Halifax by Scotland, Hogton, Williamf
ton and Daily's to Plymouth, once a week. Leave
Halifax every Monday at 10, A M, aod arrive at Ply
mouth on Wednesday by 10, A M. Returning—
. Leave Plymouth on Wednesday at a, P M, and ar
rive at Halifax on Friday at XO, A M
-42. From Halifa*iby Taiboro' and Greenville to
Wafhingtononeea week.
Lfave Halifax every Monday at jo, A M, and ar
rive at Waihiugton on Wedriefdayby to A M. Re
turning-—Leave Washington every Wednesday at 2,
P M, and ariiye at Halifax on Friday at 10, A M.
43. From Uali/axby Wanenton, Williamfborough,
Oxford, HilHborqugh, Martins'ille, Salem, Lexing
ton, Salifbwry and StateWille to Charlotte and from
Charlotte by Cabarras court-bouse to Saltfbury, and
from tkeoce by the fame route to Halifax, once a
week.
Leave Halifax every Mondaiy at 3; A M, arrive at
Warrefiton by 7» P M, arrive at Hillfborough on
Wednesday at 4, P M, at Salem on Fiiday by 5,
P M, at Salifeury on Saturday at 4, P M, and at
Charlotte on Monday by 45, A M.
Charlotte on at to, A M, arrive at -Salisbury
on TueGday by 16, A arrive at Wed
nefday at 9, A M. at Hlilmorongh on Friday by g,
A M, at Warrentknon Saturday at 7, P M» aird at
Halifax *n Monday V. 6, A M.
44. From Hillfi>orough by Moijnt Tirzah, Person
court-hotrfe, Leaffeurg, Cafwell court-houTe and Roc
kingham court-house to Germantown once in two
weeks.
, Leave HiHihorough every otherTburfday at 6, A g,
and arrive at Germantown on Satuiday at 4, P. M.
Leave Geunantown every other Sunday at 6. A, M,
and arrive at Hillfborough onTuefday at 4, Y M
-45» From Salem by Bethania, Huntfville, Roch
ford, Wilkes, and Rutherfordton to Spar
tanburg in S. C. once in two weeks.
Salens *very other Saturday at Am, and ar
rive at Spartanburg on Wednesday at 5p m. Leave
Spartanburg etery other Thursday at 7 a and ar
rive at Salem tbe next Monday at 6 p m.
46. From Louilburg by Nafh court-house to Tar
borough once 2week.
Leave Tajbo wigh every Friday by, 6 am, and ar
rive at Louifburg by 6r m. Returning—Leave Louif
burg every Satitday by 6 am, and arrive at Tarbo
rOujfrn by 6 p m.
SR47* From Ralegh by Sinithfield, Wayncfboroagh,
and Kingston to SJewberp, oace in weeks.
Leave Raleigh rvery Other Tuesday by 8a m, and
arrive at Newb<rh the next Friday by 10 a m.
Returning-i-Lcavc Newbern every other Friday by 2
fm, and arrive at Raleigh oa Monday by 6 p m.
48. From Raleigh by Chapel hill to Hilliborougn,
and From Hifyfbotough by Chapel hill and Chatham
court-house to' Raleigh, once a week. To wait two
hours at Chatham court-house.
Leave Raleigh every Tutljday by 6 am, and ar
rive at HiUfborough by 6 p m. Returning—Leave
HiJUborough every Wednesday by 8 a m, and arrive
at Raleigh on Thursday by 10 a m.
49. From FayetteviUe by Beliefort
and Springfield to Wilmington, and frofci Wilqiiqg
ton by S. Walhington, Sarefto and Sampson court
houfe'to Fayetteville, once a week.
Leave Fayetteville every Tuesday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Wilmington on Thursday at 10 a.m. Re
turning —Leave Wilmington every Thursday f 4 A M »
and arrive at Fayetteville on Sunday by 5 pm.
50. From Fayetteville by Alfordton and Randolph
court-house to Salisbury, and from Salisbury by Mont
gomery court-house, Anion ccurt-houfe and Rich
mond court-house to Fayetteville, once a week.
Leave Fayetteville every Saturday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Salisbury on Tuesday by 9 a m, Leave Sa
lisbury every Tuesday noan and arrive at Fayetteville
on Friday by 6 p m.
51. From Newbern hy Trenton and Richland to
Wilmingtou once'a week.
Leave Newbern every Friday at 10 a m, and arrive
at Wilmington on Sunday by 6 p. m. Leave Wil
mington every Tuesday at to am, and arrive at New
bern on Thursday by 6 p m.
SOUTH & NORTH CAROLINA.
52. From Camden by Lancafterxouruhoufe, Char
lotte and Lincolnton to Statefville, once in two
weeks.
Leave Camden every other Monday at 6 a
rive at Statefville orrThurftay by 6r m Leave State !-
ville every other Friday by" 2 p m, aad arrive at Cam
den on Monday by 6 p. m.
SOUTH-CAROLINA,
53. From Columbia by Chefter
court-hortfe, Pinckneyville, Spartanburg and
Greenville court-house to and
from Pickenfville by Laarens court-house and New
bury court-bouse to Columbia, once a week :<yvaiting
one hour at each port-office on the route*
Leave Columbia every Monday at 9 a m, arrive at
Spartanburg every Wednesday by 3 p m, arrive at
Pickenfville on Thursday at4P m, arrive at Laurens
court-house on Friday at 4 r m, and at Columbia on 1
Sunday by 6 p m.
54. From Columbia by Orangeburg to Charleston,
once a week.
Leave Columbia every Monday at 10 a m. and ar
rive it Charleston on Tburfday at 10 ak. Returning
—Leave Charleston every
rive at Columbia on Sunday at neon.
SeUTH-CAROLINji iff GEORGIA.
55. From Edgefield court-house by Cambridge,
Abbeville court-bouie, Peadleron court-house, Hat
tonsford, Franklin court-house, Eibertoh and Peters
burg to W r aldington, and from Walhington by Pe
tersburg and Cambridge to Edgefield; court-house,
once a week. 1
Leave Edgefield court-house every Friday byß a w,
arrive at Pendleton court-house on Sunday by 9 am
arrive at Franklin court-house by 7 p vt, p. Prterfburg
on Tuesday by 19 a m, and at Washington by 5 p
m. Leave Washington every Wednesday at 6 a m,
at Cambridge on Tlwrfday by io am, and at Edge
field court-house by 7* m. * . <
From AognlUky yMhington, GretoTburg and
Lexington to Geoigetown, ooceiwetk.
Leave Augutta ev-try Monday at 3 r m, arrive at
Walhington on Tuesday by 5 r »; and arrive at
Geoigetown on Thurfdav by 7 t m. Returning
Leave Geoigetown evexy Friday at 6 a m, aadarrive
at Augutta by nooo oft Monday.
57. From Gardens Corner to "Beaufort once a week.
Leave Beaufort every Thursday at «r a, and ariive 1
a- Gairieas Corner by 8p w. Returning—Leave Gar. 1
den* Corner every Thursday at 3 * tn, and arrive at 1
Beaufort by to a. m. ,
Ntte I. Tbe Po/I Majler General may alter the time'
of arrival tut J Jef at lure aiany time during tbe
! of the contra fit, be frtvioujly Jlipulating an adequate com
fenfatitm for any extra expense that may be sccafmedtbere- 1
I b- *
l\,te l. Half an btmr feall be allruud Jtr opening
and etcjfng tbe Mailatai! (.JJUci where no particular time
is fpecif.i.
Mo 'c 3, Tor every hour's delay futmmJnhle accbcnts
excepted} inirnang after the times pre bribed in any cen
tral, the Contraftor Jhall JorJeit one doUar % and if the de
lay continueuntil the departure §f any depending MuU 1
whereby the Mails defined for such depending Mat/, left
a trip, an additional forfeiture of Jive dollars /hall be
incurred•
Nste 4 Nervfpajrers as icrll as Letters are to be sent
in the Mails ; and if any perf an mating probefals desires
to carry nezof papers other than those eomveyed im tbe mail,
for bis orea em he mufl fate in bit proposals for
lubat fmm he will carry it -with thai emolument and for
xwhat sum •without tb'< emolument.
A'otd 5, Should any p erf on pairing profofals deftre an
alteration of tbe fwrrs of arrival and departure above fpc
eifiedy be mud fate i» bis proposals tbe alterations dcGred,
an I the difference tfxy njpPwoake in the terms of hi* c»f»-
traft.
Note 6. Ferfons mating ptopoftls are deft red to slate
tbeir prices in gross by tbe ye*r f a*d trot by tbe mile.
Those -who contra ft -will receive their pay quarterly, in
the months of January, April, July and O&uber, im
drafts on the po(l offices on tie route mad in bank notes.
(/ate 7. Tbe corttroils are to be in operation aa tbe ftrO
day of April next, and. continue for four years, until
j tbe s\fl day of March incluftve, 'n the year 1802.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Pofi-MaHer General.
GevrRAL Post Orrict, ■>
Philadelphia, December 18, I 7971 >
tuth&sti4thF
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands agauift
th» estate of Wilum Fleewtood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly attelled ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, to
GEO. DOBSON, \ ,
No; 15, So. Third-street. 5 Admml J ir n
January 4. dtf
TO LET, ~
A front Parlour, suitable for
an Office ; a Room, lurniftedor unfurnilhad ; and
a large Cellar, which will serve either for (Wage
or a bottling cellar. Enquire at no. 24, South
Fifth-flreet.
Boarding and Lording to he had- Enquire as a
ovc> • Jan 6.— * jt
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prinze Rice in <u>kole and Half tierces
Boutdeaux Brandy
Tenerijb Wive
MolcJfes
Georgia and Earolina Indigo
Ravens Duck and -ene bog/head of paiit '■
brushes.
N. izf J. Frazer.
No. 95, Santh Front Street.
■ Nov. 7. dim.
Musical Injlrument Manufactory.
167, Arch-ll^eet.
TO THE LOrtKS OF HARMONY.
H m R PER,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has
now ready for sale, a few off hjs new invented,.
and much admired fide board Piano Fortes, with
Pedalt,patent swell, ionopahanf and French harp .
stop, which for f«nf?bility of touch, brilliancy of •
tone, (implicit/ and durability of cooftru£Uon, the
hperiority of flatters himfelf, a Cfcgle tp
al will convince the unprejudiced judge—As they
are manufactured under his immediate iufpe&ion,
of the very best feafoncd materials, he oan fell on.
rcafonabie terms for Cash. Instruments repaired,
tuned, &c.
N. B. Second hand Piano For tea taken in ex
change for new.
nnember 18. 2aw2Rlo.
Samuel & Mifirs. F-iiher,-
ARE HOW OPE|IIMG,
At their Wareheufe, No. 27, Dock Street, afrelh
afforttflent of Woolen and other goods, suitable to
the season, seceived by the late arrival; from Eng
land.
Tbey have also for Sale,
Ltfbon
P cs >bhds. and quarter calks-
Port Wines, J
Aflorted queen's ware in crates, £tc.
loth mo- 23d. diw3ta«3w.
Sarriuel Pleafants & Sons,
No. 74, South Second-Jlrcct,
HAVE received a supply of Seasonable GOODS,
which they are now opening for sale, on
reasonable terms. Oil 27. —4W
FOR SALE,'
By the Subscriber, at his Store, No. 75, South
Water-street,
A general assortment of China
Ware
Black and coloured Sattins
Do. do. XjHteftrisgs
Do. . ds. Handkerchief*
Do. do. sewing Silks.
Imperial and Hyson Teas
Long and short Nackeens
Quick Silver, in tubs
Holland Gin, in pipes
Assorted Glass Ware, in cases
White and brown Havanna Sugars, in boxes
Mobiles, in hoglhcads
St. Croix Rum and Sugar, in do.
London particular Madeira Wine
and Malaga Wisep, in quarter calks
Red t yellow and pale Barks, in chcfts
Logwood, &c. &c.
n»v. 7.—tu&( 4 w JOSEPH SIMS.
Fresh Raisins.
A Small cargo, just arrired, and now landing
at Chcfmft Hreet wharf, from the Hoop Ya
rico. Capt. Halkell, coofiftieg of ltegs, Boxej ?no
Jars. A few Jars of excellent Grapes, and sacks
of foft (belied Almonds.——Apply to the Maiicr
on board, or to
"Jos. Anthony & Co.
December 19
Alphabetical Lift of Duties,
Payable by law on allGopds, Wares, and Mer
chandize, imported into the United State# —latest
edition, to be fold by JOHN ORMROD, no. 41,
Ch«fpac-ftreet. Dec 16 —d
This Day is-fubiiihed,
BY Mcff. Dobfon, Carey, CatnpbeM» Ric apd tht
otbex Bookfcilcrs,
Price One DoiUr and iwcniy-five ceiW*s,
Elegantly printed on fVwvr paper, and Hot
prrffed,
By John Thoropfnti,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with each other, and with
that of the United State?: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of caeh Constitution, an 4
tlaffingtogether their most important provisions,
under the fsveral heads of adr tliftraticn ; with
"Notes andObftrvations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congress of the
United States.
Dedicated to the People of the United States.
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior pa
per, at 3-4 th? of a dpllar.
City Commiffionsr's Office, '
FOR TH« •NFORMAT.QNTrTHIcm'l 97 '
T HE foiW,n g ,n JDgcln Jfs
ft vine
be under .the fuperintenda.eeofNicLlai Hilt*
%. from the fnuth fide of Mii IWr« ft
the Couth fide of Ch-J-mt ftrtet o h 7 tSU'l*
fupcrindanrt of Wi||, lm Moulder. r t
3- 1 rorn the leuth fide of Chefi»,,t n
the porth fide of Spruce street,
fupenmendu.ee of Joseph
hAL'J'
Th 6 Subscriber,
bQokt'which'have Arir h "
s 3wsaßsa s£^
Philadelphia, Jan . ™*NLBAF.
Just
English Grammar,
A DAwSf \ dh b*l? lth ' m P rove n>entty
A with ™ different cliffs of learners;
fervatioas for COntami , n S rul <* »d ob-
By LINDLEY MURRAY.
,nfwe t ;;^^fer D 7i„ 0 \ h Trtir r 7C dfUlly
have fcli." Pr ° pnetjr ' that we r«c6lleiS tcf
" ThUGrammw l lP*"** 1 ' ** l^6 '
to TtitW
carefully and j.dicioufly * "
jsdiftind and well ada'pud
StSSJIT*" Wis
#KM
Englifb Exercises, -
I i„ A JUM d t0 the ° r^ lmar la "'y publilhed b,
Lmdley Murray, confining of ei,mfl,J t
th* parts of lfceech, inftancesof falfcs orthofraDhv
violations of the rules of fynrax, defefl, i„ m L.
tnauon, and of the inks refpe<W
perspicuity and acc V acy, defined f, r the beneft
a * wdl ?s for theufe °f fchooli
fn. r* !r iye »*> much P leased the pernfaj
of these Exerofes. They «cc»py wil^diteipiift.
e " a " Dft im pottaDt pl»c» in the Ijcicuec
of the Epglifh language; and as such, cio
warmly recommend them ta the Teachers of
Schools, as well as Co all those who are desirous of
attaining cprro<#ae& and precision in their native
tongue.
Monthly Rrvuiu, July 1797.
The above Boohs a f e for sale at Joseph & Tamss
Cru*suanics book (lore, No. 87, Market fired.
laiw»qr_g. _________ 3 tw«ir._
60 Dollars Reward.
R WAT framthe fubferiber, on the 14th
December, I?9h a WegM Man, about 1 a
by the nan* of C«o,he is about j feet
7or 8 inches high, milling well proportioned; he
has a very (oarfc voice, his fore teeth ftandvery
far apart; there werp pne qr two with him—X
aannot rightly deferibe the doaths he took with
hurt, for fie took two or three fuiis ; he had on
when he wept away, a pair of kerfef trowfcrs, a v
halt worn coloured coat, worji'wo^l
hat ; he took with him four very good Ihirts 1
txpc& he hat made for Philadelphia or the Jerseys.
-UttnC.—.. 1.1,.. ,i f i»i^w« B Fo-«mlfeitm:iilijm, ft*
that the owner way get b im again, fluil hire the
above reward, paid by me, JOHN MpORE,
Living, in Still r-<wd, Kent county, Maryland.
January 2. »6tiaw
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOOSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a generou*
rent'will he given; to be taken for a year, or on
more for a longer term. Inquireof th« Printer.
Oft- *7- eotf
Valuable Books,
Just received by the Fai* American from
London, and now opening and felling by
J. Orm rod, No. 41, Chefnut Street.
CATALOGUES
Of the newly imported books maybe had gra
tis. These added to O's usual stock, form an
extensive and elegant colled!ion of ancient and
modern literature, and comprise book? in sun
dry languages and on various fubjefls.
This Day is PulliQitd, l
By J. Ormrod, (Price 75 cents, haadfomely
bound and lettered, and embellished with au
elegant frontifpiece and' feveßty thfee euti.)
The Looking Glass for the Mind,
0 K, •
The Juvenile Friend ;
. Being a valuable collection of interesting and
mifcellaneout incidents, calculated to exhibit to
young minds the hapyy effefls of youthful in
nocence and filial affe&ion—ln prole and verse.
Defigncd (o improve and amuse the rising gene
ration.
In the Press, and will be speedily published,
Dr. DARWIN'S '
Plan of Female Education.
Subscriptions for this incomparable work will
be thankfully rereivrd by the printer. The book
will contain about three hundred pages, will be
printed with a new type on fipe paper, aud de
fivertd to fubferibers neatly bound, lettered and
embelliflied with an elegant frontifptece, tor one
dolUr.
January 3. Jt.
This Day Publilhed,
And to be fold by WILLI AM YOUNG, orner of
Second «aid Chc/nut ftrcreu,
Price $-% ibs of a Dolhr,
Observations an lertain Dscuments
Contained i* No. V and VI ef
" The Hiflory of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the cu a«ge or srecoi-ATiosr aesiaft
ADEXA-NDER HAMILTON,
Late Scc«itaay of the Triasort, is FULLV
REFUTED.
ir klt re n Br almt s1 r.
This publication prefects a concile statement
of the base means praAifed by the Jacobins of tb«
United States to asperse the charafiers of iho(«
porfons who arc conliikred as hottilc to their «Kfor
ganizing schemes. It also contains the cor
refpondeace between Mr. Hamilton and Meflrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venable, on the fub
jeift of the documents alorefaid, and a fiTies of let
ters from James Reynolds aadhis wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the polßbility of a doubt,
that the conned ion between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring confpiraey on the pari
of the latter and bis associate* to extort money.
EA discount of one third from the retail price
e mads in faror ot wholefaie purrtiafers, fc.r
cash. Orders.to be tp Mr. Toumo.
AuguH 15.