of tljc ®inttetj States, and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
By John Fen no, N O, iio Che [nut Street.
Numbb* i6B<Z.J PHILADELPHIA: TUESDAY EVENING, yA Ml ART 30, 1798. [VOLU m£ XIII.
FOR THf CURE or
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, CON- •
SUMPTIONS,
And all difcrdj rs of the Breajl and Lungs, > f
t Church's Cough Drops J
In a medicine unequa.led by <>ny other in the world.
CERTT F I C AT E. |
" I hereby certify, tha r I have been cured of a ,
most lerefe Cough, Cold, and vialpoc f Slain toy. 1
LrcaU, oy taking Oi;ly a few doses offer. CAurch's
Cough !>rops. CHARLRS BF.VANS," t
Sail Maker, Spruce street wharf, Philadelphia. t
f
From a London Paper. - (
To Dr. CHURCH.
SIR,
Having been recently restored from the brink of
the grave, by your invaluable medicine, I think it
my duty to make this public acknowledgment of
the fame, for the benefit of others aillidled with a* v
fimiiar complaint. 1 had been afflicted with a most f
dreadful auhnia for about twenty-three years. I 0
never for years got any reft, my cough was so j
troublesome in the night; and used to discharge an
ilrnoll incredible quantity of glutinous matter
from my lungs ; and my breath was so exceeding
Ihort that I could not walk across my room. Pro
videntially hearing of your Cough Drops, I too,
them ; and, through taking them alone, I am now
bluffed be God! rcftored to perfeift health. My
cafe is w*»ll known to the members of the Ebene
zer Chapel, in Lincoln's-Inn-Field, of which I am
ajfo a member ; and any of them will gladly fa
tiasy any inquiry concerning the truth of what I,
fay< I am. Sir, your grateful servant,
NATHANIEE LANGWORTHY,
No. 8, SmitliVcourt, Great Windmill street,
Hay-market.
Witneft,
N. Langworthv, jun.No. 40, t
Pultney-ftreet, Golden-fquars. .
CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS
•.Are prepared and (old (only) by* the inventor and
sole proprietor, Dr. James Church, at his Medi
cine Store, No. 1 South Third-street, next the Mar. '
ket, Philadelphia; and by appointment, at New-
York, by Messrs. Staples and Co. 169 Pearl-street, ,
and Miss Wedman, 111 Williem-ftreet. t
Dr. Church may be consulted every day, at his v
office, 158 South Front-street, Philadalphia. a
January 9. c
Philadelphia Sc Lancaster Turn-
pike Company. «
January 4, 1798. £
At a meeting of the President and Managers, t
this day, a dividend of 5 dollars per share was B
declared for the laji half year, <u>hicb mill be by 0
them retained, for the payment of the debts of
the Qompsmy, agreeable toa resolution eftbeStock- a
holders the nth June la ft.
TENCH FRANCIS, Treafvrer
Of tbe LancaJlerTurnpikeCom'py.
January 8 miff j
House and Lots, in Bordentown.
TO BE SOLD, a handsome two story House.
with the {jot on which it is ere<sted, situated
?£out the middle of the beautiful and healthy V
Village of Bordentown. The haule IsTortylWo" '
feet ItMii, in u«*i l»t contains r
one acre, and is one hundred feet on the main 0
street, and extends with the fame breadth toba»k
flreet. Also, a large Lot, containing nearly four P
acres, separated from the former by back ilreet. 11
One third only of the purchase money will be re
quired upon executing a deed, and for the re
mainder, such credit will be given as the purchase
ermaychufe. This property will be fold free •- y
all incumbrances, and an indisputable title give»f „
For farther particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnes, residing in Bordentown, near. ( -
the premises, who will (hew rhe fame, or of *
PETER THOMSON, r<
Conveyancer, no, 144, Market-street.
December ». °
Ran away the 25th of Decern- „
- ber, 1797, a Negro Man, about 5 feet sor 6 inch- p
Ct high, of a yel low complexion; wben spoke to f
and called by hU name he has a quick (harp look p
out ©f his eyea and (hews the white of them very
much ; has taken all his eloathes with him, which _
aic, a new kersey great coat, a grey broad cloth
and clofir bodied coat, a striped nankeen
breaches, (ilk {lockings and ruffled ftiirts, and a
number of other cioaths. The said Negro undeir- 4
ftaads farming, and is a pood fhoemakcr and car-
penter ; he can read and write tolerably well—lt <
is likely he may forge a pass. Whoever up *
said negro and secures him, so that I get him,- stall
have Thirty Dollar? rewardjjaidby the fubferiber, (
Susannah Medford, living m Stilt .
land, Keut coonty.
N. B. The above Negro it 19 years old. (
January 2 fr
To be fold,
An ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
story brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. situate on the Iriih trail lane, in the
■ township of Moyamenfing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
-the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for taste and
elegance, stand unrivalled.
December 1. dtf
The Subscriber intends to make
application for the ienewal of a Certificate ot a Share
in the Bank of the United States, (landing in the name
of A. 3. No.ftOOA", dated July it, 1797' the
haying been loft. JOHN (xRaHAM,
Richmond, Dec. i.
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in whale and half tierces
Bordeaux Brandy
Teneriffe fVine
Molajfes
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Raoens Duck and one hogjhead rf paint
hrufhes.
N. Cs* y. Fmzer.
No. 95, Sonth Front Street.
Nov. 7- dlm _
—' FOR SALE,
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. 55, the comer of Chefnut and From streets,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Also, a general assortment of Tools,
Eiles aijd Materials, coafilling of Clock Move
ments, eight, day and thirty l\our brass pinions
and f»rge work ; Bells, clock and watch Dials,
Springs, Hands, Glasses, Pumice Stone, Emery,
Kottin Stone, Cat Gut; bench, stand and tail
Vices; Turns, Pliers, Chains, Seals, Keys, &c. &c.
Apprentices Wanted,
novetiiber 3. f&tutf
PROPOSAL.
T TAVtNG met with a liberal patronage, the
JlI Subscriber is emboldened to issue proposals
for printing by fubfenption. the JOURNALS OF
CONGRESS, from their firft meeting in 1775,10 iv!
the present titr.e. " f
'• This work /hall be printed -vitb a new type, q
made for the purpose; and *n good paper. It j n
1 tvilt be delivered at one <Wfat per volume (o3a- g a
i, )in 6 v«!s.—eaft to i.e on delivery. jj
3 It isneadlefs to fay any thing ms the merit» of
thi« undertaking—tt- scarcity of the, Journals
• throughout the United S'ates, is fufficient to jufh- „
fy the printer in his hope of meeting with that
success, which he i» certain the enterprise drferves.
JOHN PARKER. Y .
Jan. 47. d 6t A
f ■
: A Gardener wanted.
f A person well acquainted with gardening, and Fi
1 who would oceafionally attend market, may C<
' hear of a place by applying at the ii mile stone,
on the Bristol road, or No. 109, Arch-street,
1 Philadelphia. A Angle man would be prtferedc
' Jan. ao. 2awtf
: FOR SALE,
By JOHN MILLER, juk. £s? Co. C(
No. 8, Chdnut-ftreet, ( t
One hundred and eighty bales g c
BENGAL GOODS,
1 Amongst which are,
Gurrahs Mamoodies
1 , Baftas Sannas
Gurz nahs Tanda Coffaes
Guzzies Emertics
, Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palampoors Romall Handkei chiefs
Amongil them are a great proportion of the
manutaAures of Pa.tna.
December I. § is
Princeton—New-J erfey.
To be Sold,
• '"P'HAT neat and convenient House in which
1- the late Mrs. Ann Witherfpson, now Mrs.
, Ann Walker, lived ; together with all the appur
tenances. The house is two (lories high, of frame K
s work, and painted. There are are four rooms J;
and an entry on the lower floor, and five roams
on the second floor. The cellarsare dry, and the
garret fpacious>—Th« back yard is paved with co
stones, In it are a well of excellent water, an kj
oven, a smoke house, and house for albas—and
behind it acartiage house; hay loft, granary, and
convenient {tables, with four stalls for horses, and
four for neat cattle. The lot is 60 feet wide upon
' the street, and *54 feet deep, somewhat more than an
' one half of which is made iato a kitchen garden w j
' of an excellent foil.
e For terms, which will be made very reasonable, —;
■ apply to the reverend
Samuel S. Smith-
January 19 MW4W
For sale or to be let on ground- I
rent, 3§
A valuable Lot of Ground ; rca
QITUATE on the north-eiftcorner of Wal- f ag
«vnt and Filth, .fir.
House ftjuare. 1 his lot is tiity-one Feet front
on Waiiiut street, and one hundred and thirteen yj]
Teet and an half on Fifth .street ; there are at
present two small two story brick houses, and a
. number of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-ftreet, between Mulberry and Saffafras
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward nine:y-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. Thel'e houses
ave the convenience of a public 2lley adjoining .
on the north fide, and are a very dtfirable fitua- 2
tion for a merchant, flour fa<3or,or others who £
may have occasion for storage of goods. This $
property will be fold on very reasonable terms
forcafh For further information apply to the
printer.
July 31. m&wtf
notice! R>
n
I AIL perfoiw concerned are hereby notified,
ifl that the f"bfcriber intends to apply for a re
newal of the undermentioned loft certificates of
' Stock in the Bank of the United States—He for-
P, warded them under cover of a letter addressed to |
John Anfley.of London, by the ship Bacchus, capt. A
' George, which test t'his port in June last for I.on- X,
~ {fbn; —But' THat hceo captured on her
pafTage and fentto France, the above letter and in
clofures have failed in their deftinatiou.
Three certiScates, viz
Nos. 26325, 2632-6, 26327, each for
four (hares, dated January Ift, 1797, and
0 iflued in the name of Henry Grace, of Tot-
le tenham Highcrofs, Great Britain. (
ie ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
II Philadelphia, november 8. 2aw6w
Doctor Rush's a
ld Literary, Moral, and Pnilofophical
Essays.
e This Day is Publilhed, c
re By Thomas is" Samuel F. Bradford, *
le No. 8, South Front Street,
( Price two Dollars,J
w Essays. Literary, Moral and Philosophical,
" By Benjamin Rush, M. D.
And Profeflb-sof the Institutes of Medicine, and
Chemical Prailice, in the Univeriity of Penofyl
vania.
In the Press, J
And fpcedily will bo published, **
PERRIN's
nt Elements of French Conversation.
January 16 3 teo^
FOR SALE,
_ Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Including Long Primer, about 400 weight, in
good condition, and would answer the purpose of
a country printer as well as new.
E[.quire of the Printer. Nov. 30.
is, JuJI Published, i
c- And to be had of Messrs. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice, 1
115 Gary, and the other pricipal Booksellers in the
'•» city .price one dollar, twinty-five cents,in boards,
Xj New Views of the Origin' of the
c. Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. d.
Jane io. *6'
Nicklin Griffith,
At their Store, on Walnut Street Wharf—
HAVE FOR SALE,
hhds. cf Jamaica Kum
Ma'dsii f. Wine in pipes and hhds.
TencfifFe do. in pipes
Old Port do. in hhds- 1
Imperial Tea in quarters aftieigliths of chests
Sail Canvals, No. 4, to 8
Dimities, Ginghams, wtd Muflinets, in Tacks- '
ges fuitible for the Weft India uiaAet
Nails allbrtod
Blatk quart bottles 1
Queeni ware in hhds. and crates
Yellow ochre dry in casks ;
And at New-York, on board the
fliip Diana, from Liverpool, exp«Aed round
as soon as the navigation is open,
Fine Liverpool Salt
Coals
Spanish Brown ")
Venetian lied |
f • -
White lead
Red lead J
Colcothar vitriol
i<o bundles Sheathing paper
Seaming twine
Ship Diana,
For Sale or Charter.
ALSO,
( N. B. The late firm of Philip Nicklin iy Co.
is now changed to
NICKLIN GgIFFITH.
January >. eodtf
For Savannah,
TO SAIL THE FIRS 7 OPENING, '
1 Tlie taf; failing Ihip
IstSSSZ SWIFT PACKET, a
Patrick Gribbin, Matter, ?
lying the firft wharf below "
•«-«-> R?."KWIiTCT!i» A j ar j cet gt ree t —has handsome ac- v
commodations for paffeugers—For freight or pas-
fege apply to the Matter on board, or to 0
N. y y. Frazer,
No. 95, South Front Street.
Who have-on hand, and for Sale,
Prime Rice, in whole and half tierces, Georgia t ,
and Carolina Indigo, Molasses in hhds, Teneriffe ).
wine, &c. &c i,
December zj yawtl. 4
For Amsterdam, o
The Ship j 1
FARMER, f,
John M'Collom, Master; a
WILL fail in a few days, the u
""- 3a ®s^afife^Sg rea ter part of her caxjjo being e
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or pas- °
sage, apply to tlie after
JOHN RAVAGE. ;;
Who is Binding, out of the said Ship, from Boot- p
deaux, and For Sale, 11
Claret in hhds. *
White Wine in quarter caflcs I
Claret in cases, of a ftiperior quality '
Fontiniac, 1 I
Sauterne, V Wines in cases
Lunille, ) ' ( n
Prunes in boxes
november 24. § s
For Sale or Charter, »
GOOD HOPE,
Will carry about 1200 barrel*, and 1
13 ready to Cake in a cargo. For terms t
rn V apply to |
Pragers Iff Co.
No. 151, South Secend-ftreet. (
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar and c
Rnm, Madeira, Lisbon, and Teneriffe win«. 1
November 7. dtf. 1
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captain Chisholm,
A new vessel, with excellent
accommodations for passengers
Sails on the 10th of December. For Freight or
PafTage, apply to ROSS W SIMSON.
Who have to diffxfe of,
A small invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
. INDIGO, and a pan el of HOLLY WOOD.
November 18. $
Chocolate and Mustard,
of a superior quality manufadl«red,
GINGER and Pepper, ground ; {helled or
pearl Barley; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
Ale and Cyder j Taunton and Burton Ale ;
1 London Porter ; red, Port and Lisbon Wine,
luitable for exportation or home_ coafumptioij;
The highest price given for Mbftard-Seed.
Also for sale, A quantity of Bocking and
common Baizes, a variety of colors; a bale of
' Fullians, Shawls, &c, for sale by
' JOHN HA WORTH,
No. 98, south Front-street.
Nov. tj. m.&th.t.lj.
l >
d Samuel Pleafants Sft Sons,
1- No. 74> South Second-fireet,
HAVE received a supply of Seasonable GOODS,
which they are now opening for sale, on
reasonable terms. O& 17. —4""
Tin Plates,
FOR SALE BY
SIMON WALKER,
Pine, near Fifth street.
'• December 28. 1 w
* f This day is Publiihed,
At the £)ffice of the Aurora, No. us, Market Street,
[ Price one.dollar aad a half,}
A view of theconduft of the EXECUTIVEin the j
FOREIGN AFFAIRS oftbe UnitedStatss, conneS
ed with the Million to the French Republic during
e, the yeais, 1794, 5, 6,
ie By JAMES MONROE,
' s > Late Minister Pler.spoientisry so the laid Republic
L C IlluHrated by his INSTRUCTIONS and COR*
RESPON DENCE and other authentic document^
A very liberal allowance to those who bny to lejl
again.
December 13. *6t*
j j ' 1
To be Exchanged for .
Br 'itlfb, German, or India Goods, A
!N THE PACKAGE ;
A trail of valuable Land ( i r ,
In Lycoming, joining thtt of the Holland co. ing
and containing 10,000 Acres. it i
Inquire of the Printer. Th
Jw- 15- $ ?P S
J hot
ROSS SIMSON,
* in |
HAVE FOR SALE, t h e
A'few bales Baftas, Coflas, and ™t
a quantify of Bengal COTTON "
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica, J
St. Vincents, £ RUM. 110
and Bengal >
300 caftn RICE, and ' .
A parcel of (hip building RED CEDAR. c
Ro
Just Publi(hed,
And to be had at the Book-stores of Messrs. Dob
son, Campbell, Young and Ormrod, J
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Causes and Cure of Remitting or Bilious ;
Fevers.
To vihicb is annexed, T ,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and practice of I
different authors: and an APPENDIX, eshib
iting interesting fails and rcfle&ions relative to 0
tha Syncclai IlUroidet, or Yellow Fever, which we '
has fo much dillrefsand mortality, at in S
different periods, in several of the fcaport towns |
of the United States of America. 3r
by WILLIAM CURRIE, "5
Fellow of the Philadslphia ColUgc of Physicians,
and Member of the American Philosophical So- q J
Salisbury Estate.
' Mc
THE Subscriber, proposing to contra® his bufi- a S
oefs, offers this Estate for sale, on moderate cen
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces, pec!
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift Sta
Mill, with two pair of stones ; also a good Forge, all '
in perfeft repair, as are all the Water Works conned
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces cQ[l
were lately built for the purpose of calling Cannop
for this State.—There are about two thousand acres
of Land, one half of which isunder wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and _
Failure. The Cannon lately mannfattured there, To
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is t
luperior to any in this country, and probably, equal xj
to any in the world ; for not one of Gxty-nine guns | f
lately made, although some of the 24 were bored .
into pounders, have failtd on proving. The &u
---ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of Ilot
manufa£lure, and a place of arms lying in the state are
of Connefiicut, and only 30 miles from several land * ply
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every ad van- and
tage that can rsfult from a plenty of water issuing lint
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace, p ro
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all thefto«kand utensils, and have p»ffcf!ion
on or before the firft of June next, and preparation
maybe madetn the mean time for coin; into Blait im
-7— ~ —r.. »rtll h. J>||» ■ ■ * ~
in good order, with for !
terms, apply to Mr. lofeph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, Eiq. one of the Representatives
in Congress for this State ; Mr, David Waterman, on TI
tbe premises, or to the propiietor in New-Yoxk. JL
WILLIAM NEILSON. not
Dee, i ■ flawtf
Canal Lottery—-No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the zoth
inft, Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN p Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 6 South Second-street
Tickets in tljc Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten (
Dollars, where check books are kept lor regifter-' der
ing and examining in these, the City ol Walhing- Re
ton, No. 11. and Paterfon Lotteries, and informa- use
tion where tickets may be had in most of the I.otte- not
ries authorifsd by law in any gf the States of the fha
Union. ing
N. B. The bufmefs of a Broker, in buying and R c
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities, q UI
I discounting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, &c. &c. will be duly attended to,
by Wm. BLACKBURN. V\
november 15 •
MUSIC. A
J. L. LENZ, A t
Treacher ot Vocal and instrumental Music, y 0
t TJ ETURNS his sincere thanks to the Ladies and t j, (
. £V Gentlemen, from whom he received a very f OI
r liberal encouragement (luce his residence in this ci- ] C g
ty, and refpeAfully informs hisfriendsand the pub- or
lie generally, that, in consequence of the rsquaft r «)
of ibme of his friends, he has opened a Musical [>,,
School at his houfa in Spruce Street No 174, where c l a
he will teach oh the Piano forte, Violin &c. &c.-r- m j
- He deems it unneceffairy to enlarg-. upon the ad
vantages the learner will derive from an inftituti
y on of this kind; he will only fay, that attention be
and zeal are much excited in an ass aibly, where e( l
ir numbers are in pursuit of the fame obj'?ift. Kis ] e(
-, arrangement is such, that an interference of the
; the different sexes will be avoided. Those Ladies c f
;, and Gentlemen who c»nnot make it convenient to m ,
attend at his school, he will wait upon at their j s
houses. Ap{ lications will be thankfully reeeiv- re
j ed at hii house, where his terms and further parti
culars may be known.
Dec. 7. "iweod
:t James C. lit Samuel W. Filher,
AT THE.R STORE,
- N0.513, corner of Arch and Front streets,
EArE FOR SALS,
Cotton and worded Hosiery in trunks, assorted I
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannels g
Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs ft
>n Ditto Pullicat silk ditto c '
_ Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs ditto f 1
Ditto Gurrahs 0
Bengal black Taffc tics / 11
4000 pieces Nankeens, and
Few cherts best Hyson Tea E
jltfo 1500 boxes best London Window Glass, c
from Bby6, to tgl by 14— and 15 hhds. Glass J
__ Ware, assorted, which they will difpofc-of cheaper
than any in the city.
November aB. 3 awt^
be The History of Pennsylvania,
a- By ROBERT PROUD,
ng Ts now in the press, and will be published" |
1 with all conveaiient expedition, by ZfcCHA
riah Poulson, jut). No. 80, Cliefnut-ftreet,
Ilc Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
R " to be received, and at tbe Philadelphia Library,
j] according to tbe printed proposals, until the
work is ready for the fubferibers.
July 18. ' «*vtf
To Be Sold,
\ GREEABLY tothelaft will ami teftr.mert of
. LV William H ysbam, deceased, ami pcit f-
Gon gl**n immediately, a ya!*iabl« property in Arch
ftrect, between Third anil Foarth (Letts, o rfifl
. ing of the heufe, No. 107, with the lot on wjufh
it is ere&ed, a ftabl*, and other improvqr:enit.—
Ththoufe is to feet front, and eontiips tuu good
apartments. Thclnti*pf th: fame br-ndtf as tha
house and 109 feet Jeet, with a we!! of wateratid
1 very capacious wallel ciflern, both with jump»
in goep repair. The flable (lai.'ds on tht r r of
. the lot and will accommodate fbpr hbrfes i:nl a ear
[ riage. This property enjoys the pcrpetualfrivilego
of a 26 feet court and an alley, 8 feet wide, extend- ,
ing to Clwrry Street. Itfcent'?! [xifitior. and the
advantage* it pofleffes with refp«A ty free ventila
tion, renders'it well wotthy the attention qf any
perfcn wifhingto poffefsan eligible property in Phi
ladelphia,
For further particular? enquire at No 83, V.i.e
Street—of
Robert Heysham,
or ?• Adling Extqttorv
. Francis Bowis Sayre, j
January II §
W. Haydon,
Delineator of Drawing—-from London,
(Where he'has lludicd several years under one of
t|i« moil eminent mailers in t.'.at fcieiice) .
f TN! ? ORMS his friends, that he has re-'commenc-
X ed his private tuition.— Terms, as uftial, Sis
Dollars per month, for attendance three tjj»e« a
week. Likewise, all kinds qf Ornamental Taint
ing, fruit, floiv.rs, &c. taught on the above terms,
. W. H. flatters himfelf his terms will be particu
larly advantageous to those that employ him, as
he makes no additional charge if there are two
pupil; in one family.
* A line clSredied to W. H. left at the office of this
will be immediately attended'to.
January 9. w
The owners of the Brigantind
Mercury, WiJliam Urcn, mafiir, ca.itiu- dby
. a Spinilh privateer and fold at Ccuta itj ia'i De
: cember, may receive intereftii-g information ef
, peiling her, by applying to the Department c
t State.
' *„ * The Printers in the fe«-.)ort towns r
the United States will render a (ervice te
| concerned, by inferring the above in tbeir
papers. J
■no t 1 c
, To holders of JAMES GREENLEA s
> and EDWARD FOX's Engagements
' TN consequence of mrvay having es j. evt
' JLtd, from late unavoidable tircuniftance-6 ft
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to fcrr.i
p notice. The Trustees now inform them, tht
. are ready to iflue the fame to those who may aj
. ply within fixtydays, at No. 8 Chefnut Street,
• and those who do not, will be confidercd as re
[ linquiihing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
1 provided for their payment.
r HENRY PRATT,
THC MAS W. FRANCIS,
. JOHN MILLAR, JUN,
; .
' JDecember 15. dftct
; p LOST, -
1 TN this City, on Sunday November 16. 1797,
A a red Morocco Pocket Book, containing 8
notes of hand ro Read & Pierie, as follows,
John DuffuM's, for 441 dollars 73 ce'nts,
William M'Laws 435 37
Georgn tVay's 177 19
John Doaks 11 90
1 iidward Clayton's 60
t Do. 30
r Do.
John Brown's £lO6-15-H
» One 10 dollar Bank of Pennfylvanianote— ar. or,
J der upon Walter Franklin, Esq. in Savor rf C : .;; .w
- Read, and sundry other papers that : n In o
- use but to the owners. Payment o; the at
- notes of hand being ft»p'd, a rewarii o> 15 d'.; f s
e lhall be paid to the person or prrfjns rin<
ing said pocket book with the aforefiid content
1 Read and Pierie, No. 65, Cfcufnut Street an, o
quellions aflced. ,
f January 19. «eedat.
'' War-Office of the United States,
January (be ijl, 1798.
"ITTHEREAS frauds have he-en pi idliled, '*
VV obtaining Warrants for Bounty Lands, doe
to the Officers and Soldiers of the late Continental
Army, by the production of forged indruments.
To check in future such impositions, it ha; been
d thought a'.'vifeable ; that all persons, having claims
y for bounty lands, whether in their own right, as
'* legal rcprefentative, or by viftue of any instrument
or deed of transfer, be required to forw: J their
® r«fpeilive claims to the War Office, 011 or hi for#
J ' the firft day o! January 1799 in order that l'scli
e claims m.ay be duly examined, adjrtfted and deteiv
" mined upon
To fuhflantiatefuch claims, aftriA obfervarce of
I the rules heretofore issued from tha War Office wil}
II be indispensable ; and iii addition to what is requir
■ e ed by the said rules, ths certificate of the ackn'bw
-18 ledgenient of a Deed or Power of Attorney, mult
le also set forth the place of refidente and occupation
e9 ofthe claimant or person making Tuch acknowledg
to ment; and when the pi oof of personal knowledge
'f is by a witness or witnefTes, their place or places of
residence niuft be set forth in like manner
;i* JAMES M'HENRY, Scc'y of War,
Jan. 7. d6w
- French Circulating Library,
r,
JOSEPH E. G. M. De" La GRANGE,
No. lie Walnut-street,
INFORMS those who wilh to recur to the only
means of becoming perfeft in the French Lan.
guage.that he has jufl opened his Library, c<;n
fifting of upwards of 1500. volumes, the hell cal
culated to afford either ufefui inflrufiion, or plea-
Cure. The eonditioni, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may tje seen at every book-feller'a
in town.
N. b. All translations from and into the French,
English and flpanifh Languages, executeo with aji.',
if S) curacy and <1 If patch. eoim mm. ij.
ass Imported (via New York) on~the
DCr ship Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for
p sale by the fubferiber, at N«, 6.1, Chefuut street,
between Second and Third Streets, the follow •
~ ing articles .
Maharagonges Charconna Dorans
Chintz and Calicoes Dacca worked muflini
e( l« Gillis Romals Bandannoes
)A . Nillas & Penfiaftes Chafia Romals
>et Blue cloth Hair ribbon
r.ue MullMullhankerchiefs palempores
Patna fio. .Banarei Opivnn
1 u ' LefTer Cardimum Seids.
Samud Wilcox.
{ novembor 17 tutl^4wMarshal's Sales.
United States, 1 *-
Pennfylvtnia Di/lri3. J
BY virtue of an order from the Diftrifl Court of
the United State*, in arid for the PennfyWania
Diilrift, will be expend to lale at C'hefnut Street
wharf, on Wednesday the Jilt January, at no'
clock at noon, for the benefit of the concerned—
»iz.
66 Boxes of window glaf«
14 do. hollow glaf.
294 Straws glafc tumble*
100 Pieces Ruflia (hecting
118 ' irccs Ravens Duck
$ j Pie e» fail cloth
1 Barrel and one keg; of copper nails
9 Hhd», of Beef
3 Bhl. Pork
2 Jackfcrewi
Sails. 2 fine flays
1 Hhd. Visegar
2 Drip stores
2 Small and one large water jars
2 Guns with carriages 1
1 Old cable
X Copper boiler
I Iron lanboAn
4 Side boards one table *
49 Coils of cordage ,
9 Pipes and one hhd. of Gin'
The fame having been fared from the wreck of
the ship John, capt. Jolger, and libelled against for
falvagr.
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marjhal.
Marlhal's Office, ")
23d January, j
Pursuant to the last Will and
Testament of Jos. Henfzey, deceased, will beex
pofed to public M at the Merchants' Coffee
Hoofe, in Second street, on Wednesday, the 31ft
inft. at 7 o'clock in the evening—
A VALUABLE LOT or piece «f ground situ
ated on the weft flde of Delaware Eighth street,
beginning at the corner of Lombard street, and
extending northward 8 2 feet, thence weilward 90
feet, and northward 4c feet, to an eight feet wide
alley, thence along the said alley weflward 98 feet
to a ao feet wide alley, called Blackberry alley,
thence extending by the said alley 111 feet, to
Lombard street, and eastward by the said street
188 feet to the place of beginning. The situation
of this Ist is pleasant and in an improving part of
the eity (a large three story brick meliuage of
48 feet in front, having been lately finifhed imme
diately appefite) it has four fronts, and may be
conveniently d'vided int > ten building lots, ffotn
SO to 22 feet in front, which will readily yield the
purchaser an annua! income of 450 dollars or more
at tbe cullomary price for lots near the fame situa
tion
Also a two Bory frame melfuagc or tenement and
lot or piece of ground, situated on the weft fide of
Blackberry afley, containing in breadth on the said
alley 41 feet, and in length or depth 58 feet.
There is a frame Cable on the back part of the lot.
_ One yearly rentehargeef forty (hillings, iffuiug
out of a lot or piece ot ground situated in Artille
ry Land (in the Northern Liberties) on which is
erefied a brick messuage.
Alfoone other yearly rent tharge of 5I issuing
cut of a lot or piece of ground situated in Duke
street (cpaiiponly called Artillery Lane) on which
iscreSed a I rame messuage.
Also, ico acre; of lanH, situated in the connty
of Weftmcnland- in the state of Pennsylvania, ly
inij in the 6th diltriift of donation number
ed I-' O, patented in r 7 86, bounJed east by Kts
119 and no, welt by 1181, north
by 1199. , \
/■lfo, oue military land warrant for icoacrees.
Likewise, a very valuable lot or piece of ground
with a three 11 »ry commodious bruk house and
frajne kifhen, situated on the east fide of Second •
SaliJras t!reet,' contalmiij; 'on ijecomi lfreet c 5
fest, ar.d on Saflafras ot Race street 14% feff
There are eredled an the prcmiles befidesthe above
dwelling, a convenient Barn and Stable fufficient-
Jy large to accommodate fereral cows, ilfo a num
ber of neat fummer-Koufis in the garden ; a varie
ty of trees, some of which are fruit, there is a
pump with excellent water in the yard. This pro
perty is not more than two squares from the canal
which will be highly advantageous 60 it, ia a few
years.
Part of thiseftate is leafed for 200 dollars per
annum, of which two years from the 2jth March
next, are unexpired.
A Share in tke Philadelphia Library will like
wise he fold. -
Conditions will be made known at the time of
sale.
Any pcrfen wilhing to view the property will
pleife to applp to
JOHN WARNER,
at No. 18, north 4th street, / -
or to EDW ARfc OUTBUSH, f fixccvton.
No. 19, south 4th street. J
. WILLI AM 'H\NNON, AuAioncer.
Public Sale of Real Estates.
On THURSDAY Evening, the 15th of
Fel ruary ntxt, will be exposed to Public Sale,
at the Merchants' Coffee-houfc in Second-street,
at 6 o'clock in the evening, the following
ESTATES.
No. I. A two story brick House, with t two
story frame Buildings, on a lot 10 feet front and
loc ieet deep ; also, a vacant Lot of 40 feet square,
w-.th the privilege of an alley to go thereto. This
interest has lately been let for 100 dollars per an
num, and is situated in Chriflian-ftreet, between
Front ar.d Second- streets, the second house from
Mr. Caleb Alh's.
No. 2. A three story brick House, situate at
the north taft corner of Chtfnut streets, being 14
feet on Second-ftrect, and 10 feet on Chcfnut
ftreet, now in the tenure of Mr. Morange, at the
yearly rent of 400 dollars, and is detmed one of
the belt (lands for the sale of dry goods in this city.
No. 3. A handsome well linilhed three story
brick House, 20 feet front and 100 feet deep, situ
ate in Fifth-flreet, between Market and Arch
ftrcets, No. 40. This house is built and finiihed
in the modern style, is iu complete repair, with
double cellars under the whole. Theie is a cistern
of rain water ir. the yard ; and the house is at pre
fcrt let for 600 dollars per anr.um with the taxes.
No. 4. A three story brick Iloufe, in
Plrmb'fl rect, between Second and Third street,
being 20 feet front and 13# feet deep, at present
occupied by Robert Kenny."
Nn. 5. A three story brick House, on the bank
fide of Frcnt-ftreet, No. 171 North, going thro'
to Water-street, where it is five story. It is 10
feet front and 48 feet deep, ia complete repair,
and it rented for 600 dollars per annum.
The conditions of Sale are, one quarter cafii,
one quarter in 6 months, one quarter in 9 months,
and snequarter in 12 months.
Philadelphia, Jan 12,1798. 3awtlsF
Surveyor General's Office.
December. 1, 1797.
ON a release of survey of 4J3 acres. 68 perches
of land, Ihuate in lower Smithfield townftip
Northampton county, furveyedto '•illiam Wills,
per warrant of id March, 1786, the Deputy Sur
veyor hath made the following note, viz,
Thisland claimed by heirs of I ewis Gordon and
George Taylor, not known by what right. Cer
tified for Daniel Broadhaad, Lfq. Surveyor Geae
ral—William Parker.
The firft Monday in March next is appointed frr
a hearing of the parties cn the aSovc caveat, or any
others interfiled or concerned therein, they having '
at leafl thirty days notice for John Hail, icretary
of the Land Office.
N. Lufborough.
January »6 jtiFjwtm
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
of
lia Debate in Foreign Intercourse.
[Continued from yesterday's Gazette.]
WEDNESDAY JANUARY 24.
Mr. Cr*ik. At thii ftige of ibe p»efent debate,
and when I inform the Committee that I do mot ex
pe£k that any ebfervatiom which l ean oifer, will
make an imprtflion upon the Memberi, it might fce
expe&ed that 1 (bould make fom« apology for rising
at thia time. 1 find an apology fufficie»tly ftranj, in
the importance of the fuWjctt under difcuflion, and
in the conviftion that it i& my duty to take the most
public method of exprefTing my to ibe
principle contained in the present amendment. Were j
it not for these confederations, the present flatc of my
health would strongly forbid my mixiag ia the pre
sent debate.
Having been prevented by indisposition from bear
ing the whole of the debate upon the amendment
now under confederation, I am obliged to depend up
on the flitement which hai been given by tbe report
era of the debates, ai to a part, and particularly he
introdu£Ury observations of the gentleman from Vir
ginia, who brought forward the amendment which
has produced thia lengthy and piflionate debate. That
the debate-Oiould be lengthy and paftionalf, is matter
of no surprize. Had I been accufUmcd to look for
of consistency of public conduft in that g-ntteirian, I
or might, perhaps, have expected that as on a late and
important occasion, he exprefled such a strong desire
\ for harmony and unanimity, and urged in favor of a
poftponentem of' the difcuf&on, to a very distant day,
the cvilsthat were to be apprehended from the excite
— ment of pa(7ion and party warmth; I fay, Mr, Chair
d man, if I had calculated on the of what had
taken place, I might have exp<-£led ihat, on the mo
tion of the gentleman from South Carolina, to go in
to the coufideration of this bill, a motion for post
1 pooement to a future day would have come from the
member from Virginia ; or, that the present ?mcnd
u" ment would have been delayed to some fu'ure feflion,
when, in that [gentleman's opinion, tke danger Irom
>d irritation mighr be ItCs, or harmony and union not of
so much importance is at prelent—for I will venture
de to (ay that the present amendment brought forward
et by that gentleman involves a principle, which, in its
y, very nature, is of'ali others the most likely to pro
to duce excitement in this House, to call forth crimina
et tions a*d recrimination-", to bring into aition all the
jn al pcrityof party, to set afloat all liiole p.fliong whfeb
0 £ hive so often agitated thii body, and, in Ihort, to pro.
0 f duce a political warfare of opinions, the most oppo
c- deep-rooted, fixed, and irreroncilcable. But
whatever change of'circumftances may havetaken place,
to reconcile the gentleman's change of opinion to him
lejf, as to the necefTity ©f harmony, and |the danger
le of irritation, then and now, —I do not complain of
ie His want of forbearance on the present occasion ; nor,
l " notwithftandingthe profeffionb of a different disposi
tion, which have been made, am I at all (urprized at
d the avidity with which the prefemt opportunity has
been seized, not only to eftabliOi a'principle danger
ci otis to the very exifter.ee of the Government, but 10
t. indulge himfell, with those who thavc followed him,
t. in the most unmerited suspicions, cenfurc and crimi
g nation, only of the Executive, but of all those
> members «f this house, wl:o have diffiired with ilwm
& in their Political i'yllcm of aftion. I fay, Mr. Chair
man, I do i ot, nor I to CGJbplain. because I
am tree to confels that I ara one of those (perhaps
® one of a'cw) who have believed, at least for foine
time pift, that, frwm the state of party in this.house,
lit Je was to be cxpetffed from attempts at union and
harmony—that nothing was to be obtained by con
cellion : I have therefore resisted every temptation to
inaftion, from considerations of this kind ; and have
determined to do what I think the interests of my
-s country require, and that fp<»edily, so far as depends
n upon me, without examining how it may be received
by tbofe who generally differ from me in opinion. 1
5. have also said, Mr. Chairman, that I was not at all
d j/Vfat the amendment which is now brought for
d ward, nor at the obfervatioos by which it has been
d ' Produced and fupported t for when I take a ietra-
} p p r vc tii>7q:l: l -r
v unfuccefsful effort. wV^ 1 - begun after the
e - •«" and has been length
_ enrd out to the present moment, as occasion presented
eriorts to establish a principle which, if supported
" by a majority of this House, and by the people our
contlituents, must inevitably, and in myjview of the
a fubjeft, very Ihonly, fuhvert or maierully change the
prelent eftablilhed government
il 1 his principle iuvolves, in my opinion, a very
v plain, obvious, and simple quefiion : Shall a majority
ot the House of Reprefenuiivej absorb and draw to
r itlelf all the power* of this s »vernment, which have
J been diflribuied into different channels, or depart
menu ; or (hall eachdepaiiment of the government
. be supported by the . hers in the exercise of its
coummnonal functions ? And is it not equally the
f duty ot a member of this house (o defend and protest
the other departments, whilst moving in their own
. appropriate spheres, as it is to maintain and (employ
that portion of po*er which the eonftitution has in
truded to them ? Thisisa question which, (hough re
peatedly fettled, so far as decision can avail to this
~ purpole, is )et one of the utmost imp, rtance, and
will continue to be, as long as it lhall L be open to dis
cussion i which 1 believe will be the cafe so lone as
the house 13 composed of its present members. This
principle is ore, among many others, the contest a
bout which ilrongly charafleriz s party in this house.
1 Perhaps this expr,(li oni of party eitifting herc> m
. 8' ve °f' cac ßl° lome : lam not very felicitous about
> the choi«!Pf words; but if, I were, I profefs to be
at a loss lor a more appropriate and fit expression of
tbeoppofiuon ai.d marked eor.flift of .pinion, which
has prevailed in this House firce 1 have had a l ca t in it
and which, 1 trull, will continue to prevail as long as
rnea urei limilar to the present (hall he advocated So
, Ipng as I thai! hold a feat here, I lhall boalt of being
r?'Y' Wh -' b y cver y "n their power,
lhall relilt thss aria many other chara&erizin? at
ere Itode»y the ex,ftenceol party here,
1 Ihould risque an alfcrticn in the very teeth of everv
day's observation—l (hould (hut my ears and eyes to
the very conclude evidence which the present debate
affords. II such is the faft, and it is no secret oat of
fie walis ot this House, why deny it ? The acknow
ledgment is neceffai yto the care of the evil; for, Sir,
divided .s we are at p.efent, I c.nfider it a most seri
ous evil, and one that threatens much mifchief to the
country. That Party does exist in this House, the
people.,e not sow for the firft lime to be told ; but
hat Oppofmon is now become so systematized, the !
line of reparation so broad, and (if the obiea. pur
sued are the fame) the means of attaining them so dil- '
nt,, th« present House of Reprefeotatives can i
never be expefled to l,„moni Z e and unite, is mh '
which the: people are not fufficiently impressed with ]
t (hou,d !
\L 1 u " ht " bc 'hat two diver K in«r 1
lines Ihould meet in their extension. as thu'mcn
t >ng, if not with different moiives, at least "with such '
h PP d!fflrr V nr S ( ! taklrgdirefl. '
l , o, ev«y meaW ' ? " * he V " v ,hre!hold '
and unite If ™ ,n 'Fo«ance, fliould harmoin.e 1
• between us, may a,»rmothers fit deeding 1
urdtrftoca the calling the of ~ """'J'
' aa examination of out c„ , fl J[ " PC ° to 1
■■ j-,** i. ~«sg&SLS»sa!r
IkinjnTom PennfyiMoia h« i ,lht e cn
u * «.«•• y vama has confident v afferteJ are
wilt, him h. the e'Ub'ilhrnent of the principle, now 1
contended for anri my '
ZfTd h m f; " , l ° BCknow -Vfeli Tl to
s feat here a. their reprefentaiive ; tor I can ne
p ver, confifteoily wuh my f eo f e of duty> >nd
» r "°:!' wh ' c f h 1 of its imporar.ee to the very
. exillence of our c,nfl„u,io„, which I have sworn to
fupporr, eairy u mto effect, or ' give it thc flr6li l °
i «»V»o-.e- notwitoliandinx the fame
" H r PPO l ' a ,^ QC ' nallun of
" li.nsdrrilt; us ' 'o <ttfaa public .aenuoir, thauhi.
it an ad million, on ihcit pirt, th, t the'peoslc are a
r f""{ , , e h m ' / n ">«"thftnndirg the gentl,man's
f .1* :'', tl f I feel no difficulty in making
r .hetrial oi fears a. to the final result. If indeed j[
» I supposed that the people gave credit to one hall of the
I affeiiions made Door, I (hoald have little « a .
lon to cikt'h t upon their luppo't.
aekoow'edfc the talents ol members would be
n.o.e piopuly cmp oyeu ia ccnviucisg ar.d inl#mi
irg e*ch ether. The style of debute which has lately
p-evailcd here, i» bu - litlle (u'ted 10 this objeft—nor
do I beHce that much ißipietfiou is mad; by it with
in these wa Is. But. lit'ie that bat recently taken
place could be intended tor memiert of this bofty ;
it is time therefore to follow it where it is dcligaed
•<JhaveaniflfiLiei.ee. Mr. Chairman, I wiih not to
anticipate a ciilis in our affjiri, which prefect appear
ance! !eem to p»jic .iim it !ail approaching : Ihould it
arise, which I heaven to avert, it may be luch
as to call far all the energies and refnurcet of our
country. I( will be then of :Lie uimolf importance
that the Executive fliould potlcfs the confidence of (his
countrymen, and ihofe who have manifefled a readi
oef» to exctt .he means of the government in i s de
fence, freed from the imputations Leaped on then.
I have already, Mr. Chairman, observed that
I canlSdered this amendment at involving the
fame principle which has molt
upon every ociifion which has prelected itfelf
' been contended lor with allthe unity and talents
of the patty, and that I corilidered it on;-, which
if eftabltfhed in (lie latitude contended for,
■would change if not deflrny the
l constitution under which we live, and which
we have (worn to support. Ihe firfl attempt
at the eftabliflinieiit of the right iu the house of
: . reprerlentatives under the appropriating power,
! to exercise an unreftraiiled dife'rrtion upon an
| act done by the executive, within the lin«ils and
under the authority of hit constitutional pow
. ' ers, was in the memorable cafe of the British'
•'treaty. On this orcafion, they contended for
' the right of defeating an ail of the president
■ i and senate, by withholding an appropriation ne
celTary to cariV it int» cfi'etf. The next in
1 point of time, was on the mint eflabl.fhinent,
where after a law had parted, l'andlioned by all
the forms whieh theconltitution preferred, an
attempt was made to defeat its operation by
withholding the appropriation of money neceff
arv to ift execution.
A third and similar attempt was made to de
feat the execution of the law for the building
and equipping of the frigates. Another effort
was made I believe during the fame leGion, by
withholding an appropriation for Carry 1115 into
elFeit the law fixing the military eftabhfliment
of the United States so far as relative to a troop
of llOrfe. Now there was firll a fair attempt at
a repeal of the law so far as relative to this
■ repealing law paflVd both houses of
the legislature, and was sent to the president for
! hit cpnfideration— he returned it with his rea
j font of diftint, and there not being a con
i flitutionji majority iti itsfavor/it failed.
I having all, the stages which the
j comlitution requires, and hiving been weighed
and eonfidered, he feflfi of the legifl'ture wa»
fairly exprefled that the law authorising thit
troop of horse ftould not be repealed, but that
the troop Ihould continue : notwithstanding all
thin, and that it required two thirds of both
bramhes <,f the legislature in this situation of the
business to repeal the law, it was contended in
the house of representatives, that a bare majori
ty ef that body had the constitutional right of
defeatiug it hv withholding the appropriation
necefiary to support it, and an attempt was
made to that effeft.
The next memorable cafe is the one now un
der consideration, where an attempt it made to
break down, destroy and alter an eftabliftiment
made by the president of the United States, un
der authority given him by the »onftitutioD. —
I do not propose 10 trespass tipoa the time of
the committee by a separate consideration of
each nf those cases, because the house are already
in pofleffion of the debates upon them, and be
cause a very few plain and simple refleiliont
upon a colleilirs view of them, will show the
danger of th« principle* which is the fame in
all of.them, when carried into practice, the use
which may be made of it, and the meant adopt
tiv"S^a; J :XS wan toVVreMeVt'of
the United States in evety cafe where in the
execution of his constitutional powers, he mnft
have money to give efle<sl to his aiflt—if this
fame majority can defeat the operation of a law
solemnly fandlioned by the three branches of the
legislature, when that law (hall require money
for its execution (and ijioft laws of importance
are of this defeription), then fir, is every branch
of the government brought at the feet of a ma
jority of this house ? Away then with the boast
ed independency of the different departments ;
there is an and of that happy and wife distribu
tion of power, which 1 fondly hoped and fup-'
posed this conflitution pwfleflcd—there is no
longer stability in our a<sls, there will be no long
er confidence or security 111 ou^government.—
In vain is it that the framers of our constitu
tion intended to give solemnity to our doings ;
in vain do we look for stability and wisdom in
the constitution of the senate, or energy, deci
sion and promptness in our executive ; they are
prostrated ; their powers all vanish at the magic
touch of the representative wand. But, Mr.
Chairman, ground so untenable, attempts lo
hardy, required every address and management
to fnppott them. The partizans of this inno
vation upon our constitution, have addressed
themselves to that natural tendency of alf pub
lic bodies, rather to increafc their power, than
befatisjied with what they constitutionally poff-
have endeavoured to enlist the peo
ple on their life, .by creating jealousies and ftif
picions of the executive,by attributing to the
departments different iHterefts and views
from those of the people ; they have endeavour
ed to impress them with an opinion, that what
ever power is taken from the other branches of
government, atul added to that of the houlif of
representatives, is so much regained to the pub
lic ftcck—every attempt at reliftance to those
doilririet, whetherin thishoufe or out of it,i* char
ged either to executive influence or to political opi
nions, hodile to the representative and republi
can form of government. Mr. Chairman, it is
because those men are truly attached to the
d.ftribution of power under the present form of
government, because they are equally enemies to
anarchy and despotism, becaule they wifo to
preserve that balance and harmony which the
framers of the confti'ution intended it (hould
have, and to defend the whole, by giving each
part its power of atfion—l fay it is because
they are against any, the smallest chance, urilefs
efFefted in the constitutional mode, that they
differ with the mover 6f the present amendment,
and other gentlemen of this house, upon the pre
sent and other important occasions.
Though a member of the house of represen
tatives, I ha»e no particular attachment to any
one branch of the government compared with
another, nor do F believe that any one depart
ment of government is the peculiar favorite of
th* people. VVhatevi-r contrails may be drawn in
thi« house betweea this branch and the other, I
trust tlit nature of bur government is better un
derstood u ithcur these walis. The people are
not now to be informed that all power emanatet
from tiiem, and however distributed, those unto
whom it is entrusted to be employed for the
public good, are responsible to them for the
proper use of it. They fee in the executive a
department as neceffarv as responsible, and
as mucfr entitled to their confidence and sup
port as any other in th» government. They
have not created an office, and ele&ed a man to
fill it, for the purpose of making him theobjeft
of their lufpicion, fear, jealou'y and opposition.
Ir stead of authorising the house of representa
tives under the idea of checking his "evil pro
pensities, to thwart every measure that may
proceed from him—instead of forming the hoife
of representatives into a court ps ceufors,or an in
quisition to pais upon the a£U of the other-de
partments of the government, they have more
Wifely impolcd check l * in the vtrv constitution
of the departments themfeivrs —They have in
the executive department, a security which can
not be abused, in the nianntr of his and
the time for which lie is elecled, In the high
refponfability of his fitua'ion, in being equally
the objeifl of p''nifh»nent v. ith every other ser
vant of the public, in the importibilify, from his
ficuation and power, of having interefU didlintS
from the uula of citizens, into which he mail
fhnrtly return—but they have another, Mr.
Chairman, and n ; ;he-leatt imp-rtar.t; be must
be a native or a ci'izeti, prior to
the of the prclenbf o* ernment, and
therefore capable of taking a wirin interest in
the profpcriiy of his country, and feeling the
pride and inftusnce of the (rut American cha
raSer.
VCas a ftrangcr to our coffftitution ;nd form
of government to hear the repeated ouforva lont
in this house of executive influence, of »Se dan
ger of executive patronage, and the jeaioufies
expressed r f tbe abuse of power ; when he (hall
animated eloquence of ge tlemeu called j
forth (by a fonftitittinn'al ail of the p rfiJent in
the appointment of a foreign ininifter) to paint
in plowing colours the danger of hi 6 influence
and patronage being extended even to members
of th 19 house, I fay ffirh'a man, without any
other information, woufd naturally luppofe the
president to be feme despotic foreign viceroy,
entrusted with ahfolute power, and holding the
purse firings of the nation, feeling no attachment
to the people over whom he was placed, and
hiving norefponfibility attached tohij situation.
Wf.at, Mr. Chairman, would be hit furpdfe,
and to what would he attribute such conduCl,
when h; shall be informed of the real situation,
power and charafler of this man, when hefhali
be told that he is the representative of a free peo
ple, freely cliofen by them from the mass of ci
tizens, and feleiled for his virtue and talents.
Whe* once the executive of this country
lofet the confidence of the people, when once
they withdraw their support from him, there is
an end to it, and to the' government. That
the executive influence and patronage is to be
dreaded under this guverriment it too ridicu
lous forferiotis c»nfideration—lt Tll y be a fpee
•tre with which to frighten weak minds, to alarm
children, but can nevsr enter into the fears of
men of common sense. Gentlemen tnayfuppolV
it may answer their purposes, *f thereby t'n?y
can exyite an opposition in the house sup ported
by the people without, against the exercise of
executive power : with such an opposition, in
such a warfare, every other department of the
government mufl fall. Then indeed would the
house of representatives pofftfs u. ontrouled
power ; then it will have arrived to that tyran
ny which some gentlemen fay republican gov
ernment! have a tendency to ; then indeed will
the government b« changed—but from such a
government, and such a tyranny, I pray hea
ven to defend me.
But, fir, why the present alarm, why this
hostility against tbe executive upon the pre
sent oecafion. Yes, the executive does more
in thisinftance than the constitution hat au
thorized him to do. Are we qualified to
fay, he has unwisely exceeded the power
intruded to him, have we the infor
mation necefiary to form an opinion—may
there not be information which we do not
possess, and may it not be improper in the
President to furnifh us with it—(hall wc de
cide blindfold, or the President, to whom
the conftitutio» has given the right having
decided frum alljthe information before hinu_
mmi v»c n.jrpole tnatto oe rigfttjufly doae
which is conjlitutionally done. -If the house
has a right to determine there (hall be no fo
reign ministers, they have a right to deter
mine there Jhall be foreigners, how many,
and where. Is the executive in that cafe
bound to take their advice, if lie is, may
this house not as well fay what those minis
ters (hall do. This house has the power of
refufing the necefiary appropriations ; have
they the canjlitut'tonal right ? The President
of the United States is a ceriftitutional of
ficer—this house rauft furnifli his fupport—
they may suppose this officer pofieffes power
dangerous to the liberties of thishoufe and
to the people—they have the power to re
fufe an appropriation. No man will be har
dy enough to contend we have the constitu
tional right—the fame of the judges who
are created by law and appointed by the
President—here the legislature adi under the
exprefii authority of the constitution and
create the officer j can this house refufe
rightfully, to appropriate for their sup
port ? So in the present cafe the President
is a constitutional officer—he is directed by
the constitution to appoint foreign minillers;
it is as if the constitution had _appoin«»d"
'.hem l'tl'clf. Here, as in the cafe of the judg
es, is no authority given to the legislature to
create those officers. The right is in strong
terms taken from the legislature. To have
the right to make foreign ministers or to
displace them, we must have the right of
foreign correspondence and the fuperintend
ance of ot our foreign relations or how can
we judge of the fitnefs or unfitnefs of the
measure j we must alfojudge of the propri
ety of making treaties since they will re
quire ministers to make them—will those
powers be contended for? But here is an of
ficer appointed to an office not created by
law—it is now proposed to recal or difplaee
him ; can this be done but by the fame au
thority that appointed him. The appropri
ation was fixed by law, the officer was cre
ated by the President —the President -who
judged of hi 3 appointment, must judge of
his recal.
It has been insinuated in the course of the
debate, that the executive had exprefied an
opinion ;hat the right of creating the offi
ces of foreign ministers, &c. was ip the le
giflatnre. I fee nothing to juftify this
conclusion—The prarSMce of the executive
from the commencement of the government
to tbe present day, has been expressly a
gainst a concession of this right : and the
pra&ice of the legislature has been equally
opposed to the claim. Can gentlemen (how
an inltance where the legislature have crea
ted an office of this kind ? Has not the u- .
niform practice of the executive been, to
appoint to offke, and then call upon the
house not for a creation of the office, but
for an appropriation for the officer* In the
late million to Paris, did the executive con- 1
fultt'nis house before he made the appoint- ;
men'., to know whether we would have
one or three commissioners ? And was his
v right to determine that question disputed,
when we were called upon to appro-». ..
for three commissioners ? Is it prop.,!,-; l (
qutftion rtiis right which the Prefid.ut h i
thought himfelf authorised to execute, du r
ing the present session, in the appointment
of three commissioners to treat with the
Cherokee Indians ? The appointment has
been made without confulring us ; au] {
have not supposed it would be disputed, or
the appropriation.
But as some extra&s from the speeches
of members formerly of this houle were
read to the committee, by the mover of the
amendment, with a view to (how, as I un*
derftand, that the ground now contended
for by the opponents to the present amend
ment, was not taken early in the govern
ment. And as the gentleman from Virgin
ia (Mr. Brent) has expressed great uneafi
nets and alarm to find from the reading of
these extradi*, that the opinions now ex
prefled by some gentlemen, are but of a
late date, that they have changed with a
change of views, and that there fnotild be
such a want of consistency in their conduft.
I /hall beg leave in concluiion to read to
this committee a few extrafts from the con
gressional register of the debates and pro
ceedings in the iirft congress, as a compleat
refutation of those insinuations. As I was
not in the house when the txtrafts were of
fered by the mover of the amendment, and
they were not printed with his obfervationi;
I have not had opportunity of examiu
ing them. Those, however, which I (hall
offer, are diredlly to the point; and prove
inconteftably, that the present question was
fettled early in the government, in the firft
cafe in which it arose ; and that if there i»
any inconsistency of conduct .in gentlemen,
upon the present fnbjeft, it rattier attache
to those who have since contended for the
right now claimed. Mr. Craik then read
the extract of the proceedings and debate
on a bill brought into the-boufe of repre
feutatives, for making provision for the de
fraying of expences attending Indian trea
ties j which bill contained a clause dire<3in e
that commissioners, not exceeding* three
(hould be appointed, and allowed compen
fat.on, &c. When the bill came under the
consideration of the house, a member, Mr.
Sedgwick, made a motion to strike out
that part of the clause, restrain ing the num
ber of commissioners to three, on the ground
that it was an unconstitutional interference
on the part of the house, with the execu
tive authority ; that the right of layW
how many commissioners there should be an
pointed, belonged to the executive alone ;
and that this house have nothing to do with
it. The question for striking out the clause
after debate, wai carried. Mr. Ctailc ob
served, that the mover of that amendment,
for "striking out the clause, was well known
to have always maintained a steady and a
n-iform opinion upon this fubjeft ; and Mr.
Craik observed he was authorised to fay,
that a member then from Virginia (Mr.
Maddifon) whose opinions the fupporteri
of the present amendment, generally ref
peftive, seconded the motioß of Mr. ScAo
vyidt- jthirh was then the fubjed of If
of the debate where Mr. Smith, eft™ ,
member of the house, when faking upon
the question, asked the house, " what was
to be done, the United States
Were at war with a nation from whom over
tures of peace were received—Suppose it
was absolutely necefiary during te
cefs of congress, to lend a minitUr or an
envoy to theDeyof Algiers; wouldilbe
proper to delay so necefiary a bulinefs, un
til this house would be convened. ?"
Mr. C. observed, the extradt of the law,
and debate thereon which he had used, re
quired no comments, but he would propoft
the fame question now, which was then put,
for the consideration of the committee.
Mr. C. cancluded with an expression of his
decided and unequivocal, opposition to the
amendment under discussion : observed his
strength was sxhaufted, but not the fub
je6t.
Shall (hen tliofe who resist this tyranny
be branded with the charafter of men wish
ing to extend the executive power to the
dertrudlion of all others ? Shall they bein
| ceffantly tatlw -jwopl«, a<t '» < S' n g
! executive influence, as being the
mouth of ths executive, as being the part
ners and champions of executive power
And shall they be sarcastically called the he
roes of the constitution ? Is this a fit time
to defeminate jealousies and suspicions of
this kind against the executive ? Ar« the
best talents of the country to loose their ef
fedl from inculcating an opinion that ;thcfe
efforts are produced by the influence of ex
ecutive patronage ? And shall every man
who happens to think with the exeentive,
in the proper mode of administering this
government, if he has talents fufficient to
attention, be eonfidered as a candi
date for public office ; or taking measures
to promote his eleftioa ? These are not im
aginary charges ; for the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. Gallatin) mult excuse
my BOt considering his jcfuitical explana
tion, the other day, as fufficieut to take of
the impression whiish the whole tenor of hi*
observations would ueceffarily make. If he
believed them'ifchiefs which he apprehended
from executive patronage, and of its being
used with effeft upon this house wer« dif
taut, why oppose the pr<fe»t bill on tfa'.s
ground, which does not contemplate an tn
crtafe of patronage ? And why charge the
executive with making appointments from
the legiflattire ? Why talk of gentlemen in
this house having commiffibns in their pack
ets ; or the expectation of office, wnill ad
vocating measures wh'ch we * to make way
for the appointment r And why ge int« a
nice calculation of time between a former
apDropriati»n and the appointment to offi-e
of a member of this house ? No man who
heard that gentleman's observations,. »t>
man who read; them in the public prints,
can doubt of the effsft they were intended
to have. They ought not, therefore, to
have pa£ed unnoticed. But where arc the
loaves and fiihes which are supposed to hej the ha;ids of th; ?x:ca'fvc? j 1
r Prdiufent mud have the power of a
rniraci.-s with, them as of old, if in j t!
their distribution more ftionld full to the ti
share any public officer than is pecefTary b
forn bare fubfiftencf. . 1
Ido no\ undertake to determine, nor do n
I thiok it at this time, and in tliu o
place, to efrprefs an opinion upon the gepe- d
ral queftioti of the policy of this govern- t
ment in maintaining a political connexion (
with the other nations of the world, or of n
the propriety of an extension or reduction a
of our prefeni diplomatic -establishment, be- n
• cause Ido not Wlieve I poffels all the infor- o
illation neceffnry to a correct opinion upon 1
the fubj*£t; and because such opinion could f
oolySLe conflJiered as that of aoy other in- e
ualof the community, and should have i r
no efiLcl as coming from me in my reprefen- i
tative chara&er. I believe the constitution t
has given to the Executive the right to de- j=
cide upon this fubje<ft : the President can t
have the best. advice of the nation, and will, j c
jio doubt take it; if he shall at any time be 1
of opinion with this ad-vice, and all the in- I
formation before him, which his conftituti- r
onal character fvjrnifhes him with, that the s
the country will be promoted by t
a reduction of thcdiplomatic establishment; i
as he has the right, so I believe he will be dif- ;
pr fed to exercise it. A s the people of the I
Unitefl States, and myfelf among the num- 1
btr have thought he,cculd be fafely truftcd i
with the exercise of this right, lam not 1
disposed in this exparte manner to question ;
either his wisdom <>r integrity, by withdraw- <
jng'my support from him. i
Nor do I consider it necefiary on this oc- 1
cafmn, to vindicate him againfl a charge of i
a supposed resolution on his part to elect to
office only such men as ffeall in the general '
accord with him in opinion, as to the belt
rri<*leof ?dniiniftering the government: be
cause I do not consider that such a refoluti
tion. If adopted, requires defence, inasmuch
as 1 believe it would be juftified by common
sense, common prudence, and common ex
perience. Nor can I adrr«t that the suppos
ed difficulties which have been suggested by
gentlemen in this debate, viz. the mem
ber from New-York (Mr. Livingfton) and
the member from Virginia (Mr. Brent) are
objections to the adoption of fuph a resolu
tion, if indeed, I believed that the time
would shortly arrive, when the Executive
should be reduced ta that situation for want
of talents or integrity, among those who
generally approve of the measures of gov
ernment. as to compel him either to make
the felc&ion to office from a contrary de
scription of character as tQ political opinion,
or as the member from Virginia(Mr. Brent)
has expressed himfelf, to hoist into office
demagogues, who have no other recommen
dation thart their madness on all occafioßS,
tofing Hallelujah's to Executive power and
influence, I should consider such an event
much to be deplored; then, indeed, should
1 I be willing to give some force to those ob
jeftions, but as I wish not unncceffarily to
d diltrefs myfelf, I shall not anticipate an evil
• which I'believe to be as noil.asrer.
"""•fiTotcTs "it Prions and alarming :f
at hand.
Nor, Mr. Chairman,- do I think the gen
tleman from Virginia (Mr. Brent) has been
very fortunate in the choice of character
which he has made to invalidate the truth of
an observation which has been frequently
made, viz. that the Executive had in no in
stance deviated from such rule,in the appoint
ment to office without having melancholy
cause to lament it. As this gentleman has
thought fit to bring more immediately into
view thise'eharafler, which he fays is well
kn< wn, to have been frequently alluded to,
during the present debate, I thereto might
, fafely concede all that he has intended for
him on this occasion, without being con
sidered his patiegyrift: I might admit with
much tr/ith, that we owe our present fituati
oii with the French republic to that gentle
man, and if it will be any gratification to
the member from Virginia (Mr. Brent) or
those who have purfned the fame political
ine of conduct, I am willing to allow them
a participation of those measures which have
produced this situation. If this situation
is as the gentleman from Virginia bis insinu
ated an enviable one, if it is one on which
wt have abundant caufeto felicitate ourselves
f then, Sir, I agreethey Shall have all thecre
dit which their efforts so well entitle them
to: if, on the contrary, this situation is such
as every friend to the interest, the honour,
and the peace of the nation has reason to la
ment; then will I not dispute with them the
obloquy and censure which their conduct
may juflly merit. This is a question which
I undertake not to decide, in the language
of the member.from Virginia (Mr. Brent),
I leave it to the underfta'nding and feelings
of the country to determine.
Whilst taking notice of the observations
of the gentleman rromVirginia (Mr. Brent)
I cannot omit observing upon the unfair
statement he has made of the remarks of the
member from Conneftictit (Mr. Grifwold)
uponthe fubjeftof checking thegovernment.
If I underltood that gentleman, the dittinc
tioh which he took between the system of
the metnber from Virginia and his own, was
clear, explicit and intelligent: he admitted
that checks were to be found in our
merit, but that they were checks operating
within each.department, he dented that the
departments were checks upon each other;
and he went on to exemplify and explain his
his didinction in a manner which could not
be mifiwder flood, but by thd*onfufed ideas
of gentleman upon the fuhjeft. He
contended for inftanee, that the lcgiflative
department had constitutional checks with
in itfeif; that the house of representatives
was- a check - upon the Senate, the Senate
n check upon the house of representatives, j
and the President, who in this refpedt |s a
conftituentpart of the legiflaturehas a check
ppon both : that in theexecutivedepartment
the Senate was a check upon the President.
Buthedenied that the legislative department
was a check upon the executive, the execu
tive Bfon the legillatite, or either upon the
• r
juJi' i iry. Hii ideas upon this fubjeft I will ! n
admit were very different from those of gen- j if
tlemen who advoCnted theextraordinarydoc- , a
trine of checks, introduced into this debate |
by the mover of the present amendment.— I
The checks contended for by those gent'e- )
men are intended to produce an eternal state j..
of wjarfare and holility between the several
departments of the government, that coo- .
tended for by the member from Copnefticut 1 P
(Mr. Grifwold) is designed to promote har- • c<
mony and a co-operation of the departments:
according to those gentlemen's system, the U
moment of harmony, conciliation and uni- < 0
on is the moment of danger and alarm.—
That moment the government is in such. a ! v .'
situation as that it can aft with any valuable 1
efFeft, is the time to fonn'd the alarm, is the
moment for this minority to exert themselves j
ir> ffarriog up intern*) war and difleution in \ F
i the departments. It I Relieved with the ;
gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Nicholas) j r<
i that foch must be the eperatior of republi- ! f
, | can governments, I fhculd then agree with 13
■ him most readily in another opinion which t(
he has exprefTed, that republican govern- \
- mcnts had a strong tendency to despotism
: and tyrannyj for I willventure to aflert, that
r out of such confufion, such disorder, such a e
; warring and hostility of departments either '
- anarchy or defpetifm must ntceffarity and u
s ihortly arrive. But, Sir, I fear there is but
- little probability of the appiehenfion of the "
i member from Virginia being realized in that
t harmony, union and po-operation of thede
ii partments' which I consider so desirable in 0
- our government, and so necefTary to its ufe
ful operatian, so long as he shall be a mem- j;
- ber of either of the departments. Accord
s ing to his own principles it will be his duty P
dUo keep a watchful eye upon their approach '
il to this point, and to found the alarm: and 8
,t though he should be one of the virtuous mi- *
oority in this house, I have no doubt but he 1
i- is fufticieatly known out of this hoCife'tp at- 1
b trait attention, and that he will speak loud ,
n etioHgh to be heard at lead by the minority
- out ftfthofe walls. If I couldfee strong and
["- alarming fyrnptoms of a harmony of this c
y house with the Executive department at thrs
• time, I might be able to account for the a
d laendment which is now under consideration
e and the style of the observations with which 1
- : t was introduced, I might in that cafe, be i
e j able to uriderftand why the house of repre- I
e fectatives is thus to be drawn up in battle j
t array against the Executive.
o I wiU now noticrs a few of the remarks 1
r- of the gentleman front Pennsylvania, who
e was last up (Mr. Findley) and then con- '
elude. This gentleman, in the commence- f
i, ment of his speech, complains mush of the '
) personalities of some members of this house
e in the present debate, and of the hard na«;es '
i- that have been called: and he beginsand fin- I
i, ifhes this fame speech in 3 stile of abuse and 1
d crimination, but little calculated to corredt 1
t the michief he complains of. He said in
d one breath, that the favorers of the present '
i- amendment, are reprefeneted as vvifhing to 1
o overturn the government, and in the next, '
il he afierts it is well knewn that there are men 1
in tlvis house, who consider the executive the
f government, and he attributes the obiervati- 1
ons of some gentlemen to their profeffional '
i- habits at county court bars ; from the pro- '
n ficiency which tbis and some other gentlemen '
:r have discovered upon the present occasion '
jf in this stile of declamation I am induced to
y believe there, are other schools besides caun
l- ty cpurts where language of this kind is '
t- taUgnt. • )
y But, Sir, this gentleman has made ano
js ther complaint, which rathei defems to be ;
o laughed at than seriously attended to ; it is, j
11 that we have taken up much time in difput- |
3, ing about a principle when we ought only to :
it havfc considered the expediency of the mea
jr fures proposed, and he has insinuated this as
i- a usual trick with some gentlemen in this ;
h house. I consider this attempt to trepan the ;
i- house, and lead from the real question, as a j
e- trick indeed, but a very (hallow one. Does
:o the gentleman preitend that the principle in j
ar this cafe must, be fettled before we can come ■
al to the expediency of the measure, and that ;
m any discussion of the expediency j
ire denial of the principle is an express admission
in of the principle? That to admit the right
n- of :he house of representatives to legislate
;h or del/beTate upfitrtheexpediency of thepre
cs lent rncafirre, is to concede the principle
e- contended for, in all its latitude. Ido not
m be'icv the movtrof the present amendment
•h or tlicfe who immediately followed him in
r, mpport of it, from the ground which they
a- then took, and the full disclosure they made
it of those objedts and intentions for which I
Ct am willing to give them credit will thank
:h those gentlemen who would now reduce the
£e question to a mere nothing. Has the pre
), sent amendment ever been contested upon
gs this ground, snlefs by those two gentlemen?
Has the right which they claim everbeen de
ns nied? if it haslhave not heardit —havethofe
t) whofupporttheprefent amendment,pretend
ir edthat the allowances which have heretofore
le been made to oilr foreign ministers have
!) been too high ? Do they wish that a min
t. ifter plenipotentiary or charge des affairs,
c- should have less ? I have not heard i r con
of tended, but the objeft is profeffed to be,
as by reducing the appropriation, to reduce
:d the grade of office at two of the courts,
n- and to compel the President to recall the
ig ministers at another, and not to reduce the
ic appropriation, because the present allow
r; ances to the-fecond grade of officers is too
is high, and ought Bo be reduced. It has
Dt been explicitly avowed, that-it is further
as irttended by degrees to destroy entirely, our
le diplomatic establishment. But fir those
ve gentlemen cannot be serious in their declar
h- ations upon this fubjedt, for they have both
es contended ( notwithstanding this declaration'
te of their view of the fubjeft) with all their
s, talents, for the establishment of the very
a principle which the oppofers of the amend
:k fhent fay it involves—One other objeft may
nt be obtained by thus weakening the impor
t. tsnee of the present dispute, to wit im
nt pressing the people with an opinion that
u- the opponents to the amendment have pro
he duced an Hunecelfary waftt of time and 1
I rr.oney, which would be iadwd inexcusable ' cr.
if tliccontrS was ti'is-faving of afi
, a few thoufund dollars. p<
[To t'conclv&Jin ' h'J
I * bc
MONDAY JANVARY 29. ' so]
Mr. Clay presented the'petit ions of Wil- '
1 ham Dewees, James Sawyers, and Jphn Qn
| Connor, praying for allowances for services j a
j performed in the war. Referred to the : " t | )(
committee of claims. g t
Mr. Sitgreaves, from the committee to
< whom w4£ lefrrred the ruemorial and address
of the people called Quakers, from their
yearly meeting held in Philadelphia, in'No
j veinber last, a report Hating, th t as
the above memorial was expreffdii only in <TQ
general tenTW,thecomrnitteeapi)litd early to
; thecscmorialifts, exhibit the WQ
i preeife grievances which rtlry whhed to rp
• have red'refled; that ir. confequnce of this t^(
i request, the committee received certain do
; cumentsfrpm them; after which tUememor
lialifts were invited to a conference* in ordei ce j
to fugged a remedy to the evils which they t j, t
complained of; and, after several coiifulta- .jj
! tions, the committee ftat-e it to be clearly j t
• their opinion, that the faiSs referred to, are e( j
exclusively of judicial there
fore it is not competent for the legislature \o
do any thing in the business, and recom
mend that the memorialists have leave to w{
withdraw their memorial. Tei
Mr. Sitgreaves moved, that the report
be read a second time, for the purpose of j ar
being concurred in. t ; Q
Mr. Thatcher hoped the report would
be committed. As several applications have g g
been mad* to the legislature by this body of c
people for redress of a similar kind prayed
t for in this memorial; in order, therefore, to
I give them full fatij>fa£tion, and thereby pre-
Tent further applications, he hoped, the de- m|
. termination made upon it, might be done in
'■ the most solemn manner.- a £
j Mr. Sitgreaves hoped 4 this cotirfe would
be taken. He wished the themorialifts to
be fu'ly fcitislied with the proceedings taken t0
3 oa their application. mi
s Mr. T. Claiborne was also of this opini- 'h
on.
! Mr. M'Dowell could not conceive the ar
objett of the gentleman who moved this re- ha
. pert to be committed, except it were to pe
pay a compliment to the memorialists.
c He was opposed to paying this compliment. .
He thought the manner in which they had w
s so frequently come forward to attempt tode- th
3 fturb the peace of society, and to arraign fi<
the condu&of the Hate governments,was not ! w
. entitled to it. He hoped, therefore, the t[)
e rep»rt would not be referred. jp,
e The question was put, and there appear- ar
s ed to be 35 for the emmraitting the report,
and 35 afainftit; the Speaker determined nt
jin the affirmative, and the question car- of
tried. Pc
tl Mr. Dwight Foster, from the" committee d
t of claims, to whom was referred the refolu- 11
0 tion requiring a report 011 the propriety of
extending the aft paflVd June 7, to! rc
n making further provisions for the more ef
e feAual proteftion of ttie-fto'htiers of the U- te
uticU and for the-.relief of widows cc
1 and children of officers kiiledjn the service, !
_ reported it as tlieic-opinion, thac it ouglrt
n to be extended to the widows and childten
n of such as were killed in the war with the
0 Indians. Committed for to-morrow. i
!_ Mr. N- Smith prefeated the following re
;s solution : t) .
t Resolved, That the President be re- i e
quelled to direst the proper officer to lay i
e ; before this house, a statement of lofles reco- w
t ! vered by citizens of the United States un- t ,
t _ der the treaty made with great Britain,
Q 1 fpecifying those cases which have been aft- w
t f ually decided upon by the court of ap-'■
lt ; peal." ! 0
; 3 i Mt. Jofiah Parker also ptefented the sol- 1 0
; lowing: j [ (
a ' " Resolved that the President of the U- ;tl
, s ; nited States be requested to direst the pro- p
n | per officer to lay before this house, a copy 11
le j of an aft of the Eritilh governmeitt counter
lt ! vailing the duties on tonnage laid on foreign t ,
a j ships and vessels by the United States, and a
»n goods, wares and merchandize imported p
lt therein." v
, e Both resolutions were ordered to lie 011
c _ the table. • n
j The houfeagain resolved itfelf into a com- v
3t mittee of the whole on a bill enabling the *
)t President to hold a treaty with the Indians 11
j n claiming lands in the state of TennelTee; Mr. (]
, v Gallatin proposed an amendment fixing the
pay of the commissioners at eight dollars a f<
I day, exclusive of their expences, which was n
ageeed to. And, on motion of Mr. M'Dow- 0
e ell, the words "or North-Carolina," were
e _ moved to be added after the word Tenneflee f
)rl so as to enable the President to treat for any
n j land belonging to the Indians within that a
a * state. The motion rtas agreed to, 43 to 16. f
j* e The house agreed to the amendments, and
j the bill was ordered to be read a third time c
re to-morrow. t
ve A meflage was received from the Prefi-
n _ dent of the United States, informing the r
s house that he had approved and signed the [
n ] aft for amending the several afts for laying t
a duty on fpints and dills. t
c ' e Mr. Sitgreaves moved, that the unfini(hed ,
5 business relative to foreign intercourse (hould J
; g be poftpoaed, in order to take up the arti- ,
rie cles of linpeachment reported agaiaft.Will
iam Blount. '
1
jo Mr. Harper hoped the unfinished bufi
as ness would not be poftpoced for this pur- |
er pose, asjie wished it firft to be disposed of. 1
ur Mr. Sitgreaves said, he made this motion, '
fe because of the impatience which had been '
ir- heretofore fhewrl to go into the business,
th and because he believed it would not require
an much time. He also thought it would
:ir be proper to exhibit the articles to the Se
ry nate at as early a period as polfible, as there
d- would be certain preliminary questions to be
ay decided fore the impeachment could be pro
)r- ceeded with—he alluded to the impeacha
m- bility. of a Senator, which he imderftood
,at the Senate meant to dilpute. If the Senate
o- determined that one of their body is nat
nd impeachable, the business would be at an
er.d. Tl.i< qu -.lion would be entered upon fit
ifter the articles were exhibited. He ha- ro
ped.therefore,'the house would take up the "
3'ifinefs. thi*.titnr, as the evidence had *
aeen long in the hands of the members, the
"nbjeft mu.t be well understood. It would
>e seen that the articles were predicated up
jn the tingle letter of William Bkmnt to
[ames Carey, which was communicated to
he house by the President of the United
St&tes.
Mr. M'DoiveU supported the motion. (e(
Mr. Macon was opposed to it, wiihed L]
he unfinifhedbufinefs firft tobegone through ac
• Mr. Sprigg was io favour of the motion. erj
doubt had arisen whether the trial could
;o on in the absence of the person impeach
d. If this should prove to be the cafe, it
vould be necessary to fend a meflengerto
renneffce, and wait Tilsreturti. The sooner,
herefore, the business could be gpne into
he better. j- c ,
Mr. Thatcher thought there was no ne
effity immediately to proceed to consider
he articles irv question as he found by a rp
>ill before him, that the Senate confidsred
t necefTary to pass a bill before they enter
■d upon the business, prescribing the mode
>f proceedirrg in cases of impeachment. th
Mr. Gordon thought the remark of the at
rentleman last up was not entitled to any >' e
weight ; if it were, the Senate might pre
renttheim'peachmentaltogether. Hethpught
he observation of the gentleman front Mary- g(
and (Mr. Sprigg) was worthy of coniidera- j .
ion. The preliminary question m
ie believed would) be made whether a
Senator was impeachable. If the Senate de
eded one of their body was not impeacha- t0
jle, the business would be an end ; if not,
't might be neceflary to iflue process to call
the person impeached before them, and it
might'be necelfary to piotraft their session,
for the purpose of finifhing the business ; ai
after it was gone intp, it would, not be pro
per to leave it in an unfinifhtd state.
Mr. Coit wished the articles not to twtakan up
to day, as they were »n'y laid upon the table this
morning, aiul he had had fearcely tine to
them
Mr. Harper did not think the business would
come to n earlier termination by goin, into ths
articles to-day, as a committee of the house would
have, to go to the Senate to argue the point of im
peachabiltty with them.
Mr. Sitgreaves thought differently ; for, though
the managers on the part of tha house rnuft be h_-ard
in the Senate, before the question of impeachability 1,1
w»sde«ided, yet the Senate could not proceed on r <
the fubje& befere the articles were cxh hited Be-
fides, if the matter of fatft came to be tried, it
would be nec«ffary for fc'veral witnefles to be sum
moned from the slate of TennefTee, in addition to
ths evidence already obtained. It jvould not ke
proper, therefore, to delay an exhibition of the d
articles. p
The question for postponing the unfinifhedfcnfi- ei
ness was put »nd carried 41 to 41.
The house then refolve"B itfelf into a committee
of the whole on t*e articles of impeachment re
ported against William Blount, Mr. Dent in the
chair ; when they were read as follows. [See Sa
turday's Gazette.]
The articles having been agreed to, without a
mendment (except a mere verbal one) the committee
rose, and the house having a If* agreed to them,
Mr. Sitgreaves moved that managers be appoin- J
ted i"*- the part of the house for the purpose of t'
conducing the impeachment. 1
Which being agreed to, ii
Tha Speaker enquired of what number they e
fflculvi vVl((l<t7 t<
IVfr- Sitgreaves anftrcred eleven, S
Mr. Thatcker five.
Mr. Sitgreaves hoped the number he hal men- tl
tioned wouki «e agreed to; the business b«ing new,
and oi a very important and doiicafe nature, he
thought the managed ought not: to be less than e
leven.
Mr. Thatcher withdrew fris motion, ani eleven
was agreed tq be the number.
Mr, Sitgroaves moved that the rtliinagers go to
the Senate with the articles of imbeaxhTnent
, Mr. VSuabJe wished to know how the managers
were to be appointed.
Mr .Sitgreaves Taifll, with r#fpecl to the manner
of appointing managers, he left it to the discretion
of the houie. The iiritifh houle of commons ap
pointed their managers of impeachment by bal
lot, as they did all their large commit .vs. fn
that houf.- a different courl'e was taken,.with ref
peA to committers ; they were always appointed
by the Speaker, except specially ordered other-
wife. The former committee on thisbufinef. wer*
appointed by the Speaker He was not
to deviate from the usual practice-. If, however u
any gentleman wiihed to move that they be ap- tl
pointed by ballot, such a motion, he supposed, u
wculd in fx der.
Mr. Venable did not think the house had any
rule on the fubjed:. The rule for appointing com
nnttecs did not apply to the prefsrot cafe, which J
was perfedly new. Bethought, therefore, that a j
vote of the house ought to deter cnine in what man
ner the managers should be appointed. He had
no objeAion to the Speaker's appointing them, if v
the house should so determine. ' ri
Mr. Thatcher did not think there was any dif- c
ference betwixt there managers, and other com-
mittses of the house, and, ihereforc, could fee no
übjedlion to chufnig them in the usual mode.
The Speaker reid the rule, and said managers of
conference with the Senate were chofeo in the r
fame way. " f
Mr. Gallatin th®Hght the rule of dire&ing the
appointment of committees did not apply in the
present e*fe. It was true that manager* of confer-
Senate were thus chosen ; but he tho't
there was an efientiai difSTerente betwixt the two
cases. of conferences reported to the
house similar if with committees, and in fa A they
were a committee, thotigh railed by a different
name. But managers of an impcaclnrent on the
part of that appeared to him to be quite a
different thing They were not to make a report
to the house which might be affirmed or negatived ;
they were the representatives of the hou£e, and
what they did would be final. Under this impres
sion, in order to take the sense of the house upon ,
the business, he moved that the managers be eledl
cd by ballot.
The motion was carried wirh©*:t a division, and
the members were proceeding to'prepare their bal
lots *, when
Mr.ffaac Patkerfajd, a* he was dot prepared t« -
give his vote, not being fuffuiently acquainted with \
the member* ro know who ware the molt fit to be
managers, he should move that the appointment
of managers, be poflponcd till to-B:orrow ; which
motion was carried.
The house then after a further vote to poflpone
the unfinifhed bufincf*, rsf-tved itfelf into a som
mittee q,f the whole on the report of the commit
tee of claims on the petition of Mary Clark, who
prayed for the reimburfiment of the lurnol £.7,2.
io. 9 Virginia currency, with intereil
14th of August, 1797 —being rhe amount of mo
ney file a Hedges she has been obliged to pay on a
judgment ard-cxecution agair.A her, founded on a
bond executed by her ivufband in hu life-tin elor
the hire of a negro nan, employeJ by him in pub
lic fcr rice.
Ihe committee of -claims reported in her favor,
and alter fon;e little opposition, the committee of
* ' /si y'
' the whole concurred in ihereperf.
I ro'e, !• it, soJ a hill «r~ ordered to be bi d c
; D .cc rd;rwK Adj.o.ncd,
PHIL A SEL PHI A,
TUESDAY EVENING, JANUARY 30.
. ,L "" ' r
Yeftefday morning, at 6 depar
ted this life, after a fliort illaefs, Mr. Wil
liam Kidd, of this city. His friends and
acquaintances are invited to attend his fun
eral this afternoon, at 3 o'cjock, from the
house of Mr. Nathan Boys, at Lebanon.
Married, on Tuesday evening last, by the
Rev. Nicholas Collin, Dr. William Sheedj
of Charleftpn? S. Carolina, to Mils Eliza
Mouat, of Monmouth county, Eatl Jer
sey.
Married, on Sunday last, Mr. Henry
Andrew Heins, merchant, to Miss Eliza
Test, both of this city.
Yesterday, Benjamin Smith Barton, was clew
ed a physician of the Pennlylva n i* hospital, in
the room of Aiiam Kuhn, who reficned, hav ng
attended the house upward! of twenty-three
years.
Errors of tke press in 15th No. of Scip'w■
In 7th paragraph,for deficient, read deceitful.
Bth paragraph, ad line,for letted, ieai Servers—
Last paragraph, beginnm; 4th line, read docu
ment*.
The ship Pitjoit, eapt Robert Clavfrom hence
to Canton, pifled the (traits of Sunda the''2l £
Auguft,on her way to Cautou —She left this
port 011 13th May. Uft.
NE\V-TH EATRIi. "
THIS EVENING,
JANUARY 30,
Will be prcfented the Comedy of
'A'IVES AS THEY WERE and VIaIDSASTHEY
ARE.
To which will be added the roußcal drama of .
HUNT THE SLIPPER.
Sele£l Subscription Balls,
MR. FR ANCIS refpedlfnlly informs theSub
fcribers to the above 45ALLS that h : s
1 THIRD will be this evening the 30th of Ja
r nuary.—Thofe Suhfcr b:rs who have not already
their Tickets, are requested to apply to
Mr. Franiis, No. 70, North Eighth-street.
t Jail. 3». 1 Tj
BALL.
! Mr. Byrne's fourth Ball will be on Tues
day evening next 30th Jan. at Oellers's
Hotel. tickets at one dollar
" each, to be had the Hotel. Ladies'
tickets "to be had of Mr. and Mrs. Byrne,
. No. 114 North 6th Street.
: Tuition as usual.
Jan. 27. 3t
s Mrs. GRATTAN,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies and
Gentlemen of the City, that agreeable
f to the wiih of Mrs. Grattan's fubferibers, on
Tuesday next (he gives a Ball, with refrefhments
instead of a concert, at Mr. Richardets. Tick
r ets of admittance to non-fubferibers two dollars,
to be had at Mrs. Crattan's, No. 192, Market
Street.
No non-subscribers tickets to hc.givtn without
the recommendation of a fubferiber.
> Jan. 25. dtf
e
IN THE PRESS,
2 And speedily "will be Pubhjbed,
A PLAN
for cjlaMifhing a gsnkral MARINE SOCIETY,
asd Syflems of Regulation* therein :
s Wriiien at Sea, in the y tar I 794 ■*
Now priyted sb? the benefit of that Inftitntion,
by rfrs author.
1 " \ navt would be maintained but to an almost
ufelffs purprfe which taking thefeam n kept the
merchantmen idle in port, and trading vrflsls
would be as unprofitably employed, if they took
1 311 those semen of (kd.l and courage 0:1 b arl (h ps
J of war, would give them pr tciSion and fccure
their fafety. We hay. enoujh for bath purposes,
! and the cultivating hand of attention alone is want
ing to multiply- their number. " Money may buy
" all naval (tore*, except mariners} but, urilefs a
" supply of them i< preferred, no wealth will bo
' " able to procure them "
January jo. §
The holders of the notes, accep
-1 tances, endorsements and other ehgagements
of Edward Fox, for account as James
f Greenlcaf, arexherebyv notified, th3t Wed
riefday, the 14th February next, is the last
- day, 011 which they can admit fnbfcriptions
' to the fund afligned to them for the pay
ment ®f said engagements ; and that those
( f holders, who do not on or before that day
e make their fnbfcriptions, will be excluded
from the benefit thereof.
e Henry Pratt,
e _ T. IV. Francis,
• t John. Miller, jun.
0 J°hn /Ijhley,
e Jacob Baiter.
y Jan. 29. dtf
* Coppper for Sheathiag,
t For Sale, by
; SIMON WALKER,
d Pine-Jlreet, near Fifth.
n January 29 diw
Flax Seed for Sale.
1 Apply to GEO. DOSsON,
1. No. 25 South Third street,
Jan. 27. - dtf
:e . ;
h Gente'el Boarding and Lodging,
>L To he V.a.'l at a moderate price—lnquire at
No. 138, Arch-street.
Jan, 27. d2w
\ e . NOTICE.
it- \LL persons who have any a^ainft
10 r\ the estate of WILLIAM COMPTON, Ufc
2. of the city of Fhiiadclphi.l, deceafcd, are requeft
lie ed to furn : fh their accounts <ju!y arretted. And
o- those who are indebted to f.wd ellate, arc earneft
a ly folicitcd tom jke immediate payment, to either
a Oi jtfie fyijjfvribers.
® r Isaac CalhraU\ ")
b " Jj,hn Haworth, V Administrator.
Samuel Wilcox. J
0 f far-uarv 27. w, 4»PROPOSALS
rft «
CARRYING THE PUBLIC MAILS
on the following Poll Roads will be re
ceived at the General Post Office until
the 14th day of February next inclusive. 1
PENNSYLVANIA, &c. j
I. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, Newcaf- s
. tie, Cautwell's bridge, Duck creek, Dover, Fred
erica, Mm ford, Clought, Dagftorough, Trap,
Snowhill, Horntow/i and Accomac court houfo to j
Northampton eourt house three times a week- t
April Ito November 15. Leave Philadelphia ev
ery Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday at 1 a M,and r
arrrive at Norrhamptoa eourt house on Thufday, t
Saturday and Monday at 7$ pm. Returning. Leave 5
Northampton court house every Friday, Monday 0
and Wednefdayat 2 a u, and arrive at Philadel-
phia on Monday, Wednesday and Friday by 7 I-* )
PM 5
Nnumter 15 to April f. Leave Philadelphia ev
ery Tuefd.iy, Thursday and Saturday at 6 a m, a
and arrive at Northampton court house on Friday,
Monday and Wednesday by 7 PM. Returning—
Leave Northampton court hoafe every Saturday,
Tuesday and Thursday at 6 am, and arrive at l
Philadelphia on Wednesday, Friday and Monday a(
by 7 r m. ri
VIRGINIA.
2. From Northampton court house to Norfolk
thr«e times a week. G
April 1 to November IS- Leave Northampton ' to
court house every Monday, Wednesday and Fri- |
day at 8 pm, and arrive at Norfolk in 24 hours., r ;,
Returning— Leave Norfolk every Wednesday, Fri- M
day and Monday a4a m, and arrive at Northamp- j a
ton court house in twenty four hours. I r y
November ij to April I. Leave Northampton by
court house everyTuefday, Thursday and Saturday an
at 3a m, and arrive at Norfolk in »4 hour*. Rc
, tur.iijt —Leave Norfolk every Monday, Wednes
day and Friday by 4 am, and arrive at Northamp- on
ton court house in 24 hours.
PENNSYLVANIA MARYLAND. ar ,
3. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, N"W
port,Chviftiana.Middletown,Warwick andGoerge- j ar!
town cross roads to Chefterftown three times a week.
May Ito November I. Leave Philadelphia every an
Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday by 9 p m , and ar
rive at Cheftertown the next days by 8p m. Re- \ an
turning—Leave CheftertoVn every Monday, Wed
ntfda, and Friday by 9p m v and arrive at Phila- , n0(
deiphia the next days by 8 p m. I
November I to May I. Leave Philadelphia eve- 1 tOT
ry Monday and Friday by 9 am, and arrive at j hoi
Cheftertown on Tuesday aud Saturday by 4 p m.; ;
Returning—Leave Cheftertown every Monday and Mj
Friday byß am, and arrivi at Philadelphia on A ,
Tuesday and Saturday by 4 p m. Yo
MARYLAND. Lei
4. From Cheftertown by Conterville, Eaflon, »t
Newmarket, Vitnna, Salisbury, Snowhill and I'rin- ]
cef; Ann to Salifhury once a week- 3
Receivethe mail at Chefterfown every Wednef- hoi
day at 7a m, atnve at £afton by 4p m. Leave hari
Eaflon on Thurf lay by 6a m, arrive at Snowhill Lar
on Friday by I p. m, and at Princels Ann by 6 p. I
m. Returning—LeavePrincefs Ann on Satur Jay by arri
10 am, arrive at Eaflon the ne* day or Monday a v
by 6pm. Leave Eafton oh Tuesday by 8 am, and ery
at Cheftertown fame day by 4 p m . no»
y From riarlord by Bel- Air to the Black horse 5
once a week. hou
Leave Harford bvery Tuesday by to A m, and I
arrr. at Black horse by 6p m. Returning—Leave and
BUcK horse on Wcdntfday by 6a m, and arriveat m.
Harford the next 1 uefday hy9 a m. at 8
PENNSYLVANIA, MARYLAND and VIR- day
CIM/t. 1
6. From Baltimore by Blacklierfe to YorUtowu hou
Pa. once a week. one
Leave Baltimore every Friday by 4 p m, arrive I
at B'ackhorfe on Saturday by 10 a m, and arrive riv<
a: Yorktown by 8 pm. Returning—Leave York- L ea
town ev?ry Thursday by 7 am, and arrive atßal
timoreon Friday noon. L ea
7. From Yorktown by Hanover, Petcrfburg,
Taneyton and Fredericktown to Leefburg once a mol
week. j
Leave Yorktown every Mondiy at 8 a m,arrive g w , (
at Fredericktown on Tufthyby jpm, andarrise
at Leefburg on Wednesday by 2p m. Returning—
Leave Leeiburg every Friday at noon, and arrive
at Yorktown by 6 p m on Sunday. .
8. From Yorktown by Abbotftown, GettifburK, ' r
Fairfield, Elizabethtown, Williarafport, | ou
burg, Winchester, Stevenfburg and Sjr-liSurg to jta '
Woodflock once a week. a
I.eave Yorktnw-n every by noon, arrive 111111
at Martiufburg o;i Tue(iay by 11 am. Leave Cab
Martinfburg on Tusfcfcy noon and arrive at Wood- a w
ftoik on Wednesday by 6p m. Returning—Leave I
Woodflock on Vnurfday by 6a m, arrive at Mar- M.^
tiniburg on Friday by It am, and arrive at York- P :
town on Sunday by 11 a m. Tu(
9. Jironi Pirtfbarg by Cannonfburg. Washing- on
ton, "Weft Liberty and Wheeling to the mouth of 2 ,
Fishing creek once a week (contrail for one year
only-)' or ii
Leave Fktfburg every Friday 119 am, and ar- £
rive at Fifhir.g creek on Sui.day it 9a m Return• a|T ;
ing—Leave Fifhii:g ereek 011 Wedutfday at 8a m, on
and arrive at Pitt&urgon Frieiiy at 8 am.
10. From Wa/ ington by Browufville and Union . '
to once a nveek.
Leave Onion every Friday at 6 am, and arrive 3
at Washington by 6 pm. Leave Washington on
Saturday it 6 am, arrive at Morgantownon Sun- J 1
day at 6P M. Leave Morgantown on Monday at
8 am, andariive at Union by 3 p m. 1
11. From Baltimore by Fredericktown, Eli?a- am
bcthtown, Greencaflle and Chamberfburg to Ship- M > :
penfbutg once a week. and
Leave Baltimore every Friday by 11 a m,arrive Lea
at Fredericktown on Saturday by 10 am, at£li- rivr
zabethtown in the evening, and at Shippenfburg Ed'
011 Monday by 7r m. Returning—Leave Shipment- Ric
burg every Tuesday at 9 a m, arrive at Elizabeth 3
town at BPm ,at Fredericktown on Wednesday tie
noon, and at Baltimore on Thursday by 5 PM. ]
MARYLAND. am
12. From Elixabethtown by Hancock and Old- R t
town to Cumberland once a week. M
Leave Cumberland every Saturday by 6 a M,and '
arrive at ElizaUethtown on Monday by 8 a m. j, n '
Returning—l.eave Elizabethtown every Monday by j
10 a m, and arrive at Cumberland on Tuesday by M
6 pm. '
13. From Baltimore to Annapolis once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Monday at 8 am, and am
arrive at An apolis by Jp m. Returning^-Leave ~,
Annapolis everyTuefday at 8 a m, and arrive at
Baltimore by 5 r m. °»(
14. From Baltimore by Annapolis, Queen Ann*, 1
Upper Marlborough,Pifcataway.Forttobacco, \[. da;
lensfreOi, Newport and Chaptico to Leonardtown on
once a week. i isa;
l,eave Baltimore every Friday at 10 a m, arrive riv
at Annapolis at 5p m. Leave Annapolis on Sa- by
tarday at 6 am, arrive it Upper Marlborough
by noon,arrive atPifcataway by 6pm. & arriveat i
Leonardtown every Monday l'erennon by 90' clock. Cai
Jfrfumi'if-r-Leavel.eonardtown every Monday at 3 "•
pm, arrive at Pifcataway on Tuesday by 6p m we
arrive at Upper Marlborough on Wednesday by
11 am, and arrive a: Annapolis by 6 pm. Leave a '
Annapolis on Thursday by 7a m, and arrive at P
Baltimore by 3 p m. . at
lj. From Annapolis by Lower Marlborough, }
Huntington and Calvert couit house to St. Leon- a
ards once a week j
Leave Annapoli' every Saturday at 9a m, and ,
arriveat St. Leonards 911 Monday by 3i> m. ~R,- J'
turning Leave St. Leonards every Monday at 4 A
p m, and arrive at Annzpclis the next Saturday by
6 A M. g
16. From Bladcnfliurg by Upper Marlborough, to 1
LowerMarlborough, Acquafco^Ben
1 nsdift and Ciiarlottehall to Chaptico once* week.
I Leave Bladenfburg every Saturday at 9a «, ar
rive at Upper Marlborough by noon and at Lower
Marlbaroughon Monday by 5 p m, & at Chaptico
r LS bf 6 p M. Returning —LeaveChaptieoevery l'hurf
re _ day at 6a m, and arrive at Bladenfburg on Satur
day at 6 a m.
Iltil 17. From Georgetown by Montgomery court
e house to Fredericktown once a week.
Leave Georgetown every Friday by 6 a m, and |
arrive at Fredericktown by 6 pu- Returning—
Leave Facdericktown every Thursday b . 5 a m ,
and arrive at Georgetown by 6 p m.
•Ed- VIRGINIA.
a P* iS. From Woodllock by Newmarket, Roeking
• hau court house, Staunton, Lexington and Fincaf
tle to Big Li«k once a week.
cv " Leave Woodftock every Thursday by 6 a M,ar
lrK' rive at Staunton on Friday at Ip m. Leave Staun
'asr ' ton every Friday at 2P m, arrive at Big Lick on
jve Sunday by II am. Returning—Leave Big Lick
lay on Sunday by Ip m, arrive at Staunton every Tuef
' day by 11 m. Leave Stauntom by 12 o clock
'■* )noon) and arrive at Woodftock on Wednesday by
5 PM.
tv * 19. From Big Lick by Montgomery court houfj
M ' and Wythe court house to Abingdon once a week.
l Y> Leave Big Lick every Sunday at I p m, arrive
- at Wythe court house on Tuesday by 2 pm, aaj at
'si : Abingdon on Wednesday by 6 pm. Returning—
at Leave Abingdon every Thursday by 6a m, arrive
a y at Wythe court house on Friday by 2p m, and .ir
rtve at Big Lick on Sunday by II a m.
TENNESSEE.
40. From Abingdon, Vir. by Joncfborough
' Greenville, Moffat's store andjefferfon court huule
> B to Knoxville once a week.
, Leave Abingdon every Thursday by 6a m, ar
-1 rive at Moffats store on Saturday by 8 a m. Leave
Moffats by 9 a m, and arrive at Knoxviiie on Sun-
P" day by 10 am. Returning—Leave Knoxville ?ve
j ry Sunday bjr 1? m, arrive at Meffats on Monday
m by 3p m. Leava Moffats on Monday at 4p m,
l y and arrive at Abingdon on Wednesday by 7p m.
£ VIRGINIA.
21. From Winchester by Romney to Moorfielifs
once a week. / (
Leave Winchester every Thursday at 6 a m, and
arriveat Moorfield «!• Friday by 6P M. Return- ,
T " ing—Leave Moorfield every Saturday at 8 a M,and j
| arrive at Winchester on Sunday by 6 PM,
j 21. From Alexandria by Ceatcrville, Leefburg
X and Shepherdflown to Martirafburg once a week.
r " | Leave Alexandria every Wednesday at 9a m,
" and arrive at Martiafburg on Friday by 10 am.
Returning—Leave Martinftmrg every Friday by 1
■" j noon & arrive at Alexandria on Monday by 7a m. 1
23. From Frederickfcburg by Port Royal, Lay- 1
tons, Tappahannock, Urbanna and Gloucefttr court 1
lt house to Yorktown once a week. *
'• | Leave Frederickfbuag every Wednesday at 6 a
n a m. Leave Tappahannock at noon and arrive at '
Yorktpwn on Saturday by ham. Returning— _
Leave Yorktown every Saturday at 1 P M, arrive
'» at Tappahannock the next Monday noon and arrive s
- a£ Fre-derickfkurg onTuefdtyby 5 PM.
24- From Tappahannock by Richmond court a
- house, Wefhr.oreland court house, Kinfale, Farb
■ ham church and Northumberland court house to f,
1 Lancaster eourt house once a week- t
Leave Tappahannock every Thursday noon and
f arrive at Lancaster court house on Satur day by 11 r
' am. Returning—Lea ve Lancaster court house av- S
1 ery Saturday by 1 PM. and arrive atTappaban- '
nook or. Monday by 11 a m.
; 25. From Frederickfliurg by Culpeper court b
house &Orangec. h. to a week.
Leave Fredenckfburg every Tuesday at lp am, r '
' and arrive at Charlottefvilleon Thursday by it a
m. Returning—Leave Charlottefville on Saturday r
at 8 PM, and arrive at Frcdencklburg on Tues
day by 6 a n
-26. From Richmoad by Goochland court-
1 house Columbia and Charlottefville to Staunton /
once aWeek. <■ '' ~
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at I P Ki, ar
rive at Charlotteivillr on Thursday by Ii AM, a
Leave Charlottefville bv noon and arrive at
Staunton en Friflay by 11 A m Retyrilms>-'
Leave Staunton on Saturday by 6 A M, arrive at
1 Charlottefville by 7 p m, and arrive at. Rich- j
raond the next Tuesday Uy 9 A M. a
»j. Frum Staunton by Bath co'irtJioufe and
Sweet Springs ti) Greenbrier cijart-houfe ouce a 1
week. ti
Leave Stlunton everj Saturday it 6a m, and b
arrive at Greenbrier court-heufi on Tuesday by
6 pm. Returning— Leava Greenbrier eourt- B
j house every Monday by 9 AM, and arrive at
Staunton on Thursday by 8 r m.
a(S. From Charlettefvile by Warren, War- Cl
rninfter, New-Market, Araherft eourt house, g,
CabelKburg, and Maddiion to Lynchburg once n
a week.
Leave Charlottefville every Tburfdiy at 1 r »'
arrive at Lynchburg on Saturday at 6 ''
f m. Returning—Leave Lynchburg every 0
Tuesday by 6 a m, and arrive at Charlottefville
on Thursday by 10 A M.
29. From Richmond by Hanovertown, Ay- al
letts and Todds to Tappahannock once a weak n
or if carried in Rages as often at they shall run. 1>
Leave Richmond every Wednesday at 5 A M,
arrive at Todd« at 3 p m, and at Tappahannock
on Thursday at 11 a m. Returning-—Leave ' c
Tappahannock on Monday at i p m, and ar- w
rive at Richmond on Tuesday by 5 P M.
30. From Richmond by Hopkins's, Powha- ■
tan court.house, Cumberland court house, Prince
Edward eourt house and Lynchburg to New-
London, once a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 8 A M, C(
arrive at Prince Edward on Wednesday at 6 P G
m, and arrive at Lynchburg on Friday at 8A M, fr
and at New-London by 10 am. Returning— b
Leave New-London every Friday at 2P M, ar- 01
• rive at Lynchburg by j p m, arrive at Prince
; Edward on Saturday by 7 pM, and arrivt at „
Richmond on Monday by 4 p M.
31. From New-London by Liberty to Fincaf- 5
' tie once a week.
Leave New London every Friday at 1 p m, o
and arrive at Fincattle on Saturday by 6 r M.
■ Returning—Leave Fincaftle on Monday at 5 A r
m, and arrive at New London on Tuesday noon. ~
31. From Liberty by Rocky Mount to Mar- r!
tinville once in two weeks.
' Leave Liberty every other Saturday at 6 A
1 m, and arrive at Martinville dn Sunday by 6 p t ,
M. Leave Martinville on Monday by 6 AM, t
j and arriveat Liberty on Tuesday by 6 pm. t ,
c 33- From Print* Edward court house by c
t Charlotte court house to Halifax court house
once a week. a
, t L»ave PrinceEdwar-'courthoufeevcryTburf- a
. day at 6A M, and arrive at Halifax court house 0
a ou Friday at 10 AM. Returning—Leave Hal- *
j ifax court house on Friday by 2 PM, and »r- J
e rive at Prince Edward court house on Satardav
- by 6P M. ,
h VIRGINIA andNORTH-CAROUNA.
t 34- From Hilifax court-houle by Halifax old town, \
Carteri, Martinville, Patrick colirt-houfe, Upper Sau- (
, r», Germaotnwn and Bethania to Salem once in two 1
, w «l"- ,
y Leave Halifax court-house every other Friday at
e a. PM, and arriveat Salem the next Monday by 6, I
t P M. Returmng—Leave Saiem every other Tuesday a
at 6, A M, and airive »t Halifax couit-houfe on Fn- <J
day by 10, AM. j
' 85- Fiom Harris's by Hickes'tford to Halifaxtwice
a week.
Leave Harris's every Wednesday and Saturday by °-
5, A M. and arriveat Halifax by 6, V M. Return- 9
■ ing—leave Halifax every Thursday and Sunday by 6, !'
A M, and arrive at Harris's by 7, P. M. i
VIRGINIA.
36. From Smithfield by Southampton court-house "
, to Hickts's ford once ■ week,
-ii
h torcHifki'.ford rvrr?; »-. ? ''l
k. and *rnre at Snjihfiild ru Sjiurd.* Jy 6- fM
x- *e'.u"W«/2—f.e»»*Smim6 •.'•>< l ***** J» v
er s , A M, aad arrive at :.ird 0.. Mjuuay by
f! *' by G-efcrid*e, St. Tamm«,'s,
ir . yecK'enberg and Lu court-!• uses and
rnund* ft >re :n Ctal&ss* s -nc? a *vctk.
Leave G->!4fon'sevcrv Wcdnirttsvat iO, AM, ana
return <>enp*t 5a uidzy by 2, T »VI, v.ajung at each
. foU-Offiec 2 h wr* After dtlf/qry of ibe nv -
,d rwftsu - NOKTH-c..irolisa.
~ 3 s. From Suif.dkby Edcmon, P.ymjuth and Wa
(hi'ngtbi. to Ntwhno. « Nec » wcei I.c«>- SufloiK
every at noon, arrive »' Edcui»<> on I ucl
da.at t, P M, V P >«K.ut,h, on WVdiK-fday lay 6,
?* Mat WalhißijlonbyS, PM, wjdatMcwbcrnon
'f- Tnurf<ia--b y j, FM. Reiu.mr*—Leave Newbern
evcrv Friday by 6, A M, arrive at Waftiingion by
r- c, PM. Arrive it Plytnoinh o'» Saturday by 4 j
11- P M, at oo Sunday by $» A M, aiidaiSuf
>n folk, on Mao<tey bv y. M.
k A'Qtttt'C-iROUXA.
f- on F.om'iJtin.«l)yHc'tf«'-l. rJixontou, Ehsa
k brio city., ai.d Jo.ulbur € to Indwo-towo, oace a
Leave Edenton every Wednesday by i, P M, and j
V arrive at fi>4iafl-town on • bu»fday by 6, P M. Re
turning—Leave Indiahtov. ii every Jiiefdiiyby 3, A Al,
and arrive at Edenton on Wednesday at i f, A M.
U dp. fronvHalifax by Nortn: jnp to «» < c urt-houJe,
C Princeton, Muiiree (borough, Wintou aid Windsor
to Edenton, once a week.
e Leave Halifax Monday AM, and arn ve
at Edenton oo Wednesday by 3, P M, leave Eden
ton on Wednesday by 6, P M» and arrive at Halifax
on Saturday bv 11, A M
1 *4l. From Haiifax by Scotland, Hogton, Wilhami
c ton and Daily's to Plymouth, once a week. Leave
Halifax every Monday at I©, A M. and arrive at Ply- ,
mouth on Wednesday by 10, AM. Returning j
£ Leave Plymouth on Wednesday at 2, P M, and ar.
rive at Halifax on Friday at io, A M.
42. From Halifax by Taiboro' and Greenville to J
r Wafhingtononee a week.
\ Leave Halifax every Monday at I#, A M, and ar
' rive at Wafhiugton on Wednesday by 10 A M. Re
turning —Leave every Wednesday at «,
1 PM, and ariive at Halifax on Friday at 10, AM.
43. From Halifax by
Oxford, Hillfborough, Martinville, Salem, Lexuig
-1 ton, Salisbury and Statefville to Charlotte and trom
Charjotte by Cabarras couruhoufe to Safilbui'y, and
from thence by the fame route to Halifax, once a
week.
; Leave Halifax every Monday at 9. A M> arrive at
War rent on by j* P M, arrive at Hillfborough on
, Wednesday at 4, PM, at Salem on Friday by 5, 1
. PM, at Salifburv on Sa;urd«y at 4, P M, and at j 1
i Charlotte on Monday by 6, AM. Returning—leave I
Charlotte on Monday at 10, A M, arrive at Salisbury j
. on Tuesday bv io, AM, arrive at Salem Wed—
t nefdayatg, AM» on Friday by 9, \
( A M, at Warrenrtonon Saturday at 7, PM, and at ,
Halifax «n Monday at 6, A M. (
44. From Hilllborough b,y Mount Tirzah, Person
court-house, Leafburg, Cafwell court-heofe and Roc
kingham io Germantown once in two
weeki.
Leave Hillfborough every other Thursday at 6, A 2,
and arrive at Germantown on Saturday at 4, P. M.
Leave Germantown every other Sunday at 6, A, M,
and arrive at Hillfborough onTuefday at 4, P M.
45- From Salem by Bethania, Huntfville, Roch
ford, Wilkes, Morganton and Rutherfordton to Spar- I
tanburg in S. C- once in two weeks. j
leave Salecn e vcj y other Saturday at 5a m, and ar- j
rive at Spartanburg on Wednesday at 5 pm. Leave ' |
Spartanburg every other Thursday at 7 a m, arid ar
rive at Salem the next Monday at 6 r m.
46. From Louifburg by Nafti court-house to Tac
borough once a week. (
Leave Tarborough every Friday by 6 a m, and ar
rive at Louifburg by 6p m. Returning —Leave Loijif- I
burg every Saturday by 6 a m, and arrive at Tarbo
rough by 6 p m,
47* fre'm Raleigh by Smithfield, Waynefborough,
and Jfcingtton to Newbern, onccifi two weeks.
Leave Raieigh every oth<r Tuesday by 8 a m, and
Srriv.e at Ncwbern the next Friday by 10 a m.
%»*«#-• Leave Newbern every other Friday by 2
p m, anf tirrixy at Monday by 6 p m.
4s. From Raleigh by Chapel hill to Hillfborough,
and from Hillfbotough by Chapel MM ana unatfiam
court-house to Raleigh, once a week. To wait two
hours sk* oii«»nam couriJipufe# -
Leave Raleigh eyery Tiiefday by 6 a m, and ar
rive at Hillfborough by 6 p m, Returning —Leave
Hillfborough every Wednesday by 8 a m, and arrive
at Raleigh on Thursday by 10 a m.
49. From FayetteviMe by Elizabethtown, Bellefort
and Springfield to Wilmington* and from Wilming
ton by S. Wafbington, Sare&o and Sampson court
house to Fayetteville, once a week.
Leave Fayetteville every Tuesday at 6 am, and
Arrive at Wilmington on Thursday at to a. m. Re
turning—Leave Wilmington every Thursday t 4 a m,
and arrive at Fayetteville on Sunday by 5 PM.
50. From Fayetteville by Alfordton and Randolph
court-house to Salisbury, and from Salisbury by Mont
gomery court-house* Anfon ccurt-houfc and Rich
mond court-house to Fayetteville, once a week.
Leave Fayetteville every Saturday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Salisbury on Tuesday by g a m, Leave Sa
lisbury every Tuesday noon and arrive at Fayetteville
on Friday by 6 p m.
51. From Newbern by Trenton and Richlapd to
Wilmington once a week.
Leave Newborn every Friday at 10 a m, and arrive
at Wilmington on Sunday by 6 p. m. Leave Wil
mington every Tuesday at 10 am, and arrive at New
bern on Thursday by 6 p m.
SOUTH & NORTH-CAROLINA.
52. From Camden by Lancaller court-house, Char
lotte and Lmcolnion to Statefville, once in two
weeks. 2
Leave Camden every other Monday at 6 a m, ar
rive at Statefville on Thursday by 6r m Leave States- (
ville every other Ffidaffay 2p m, asd arrive at Cam- j
den on Monday by 6 p. m. r
SOUTH*CAROLINA, s
53. From Columbia by Winnfborough, Chester
court-house, Pinckneyville, Spartanburg and
Greenville court-house to Pickenfville, and
from Pickenfville by Laurens court-house and New
bury court-house to Columbia, once a week : waiting
one hour at each poft-office on the route.
Leave Columbia every Monday at 9a m, arrive at a
Spartanburg every Wednesday by g p m, arrive at
Pickenfville on Thursday at4P m, arrive at Laurens n
court-house on Friday at 4 p m, and at Columbia on
Sunday by 6 p m.
54. Columbia by Orangeburg to Charlcflon,
once a week.
Leave Columbia ev«ry Monday at 10 a m, and ar
rive at Charleston on Thursday at to am. Returning
--Leave Charleston every Thurfoay at 2 r m, and ar
rive at Columbia on Suuday at noon# g
SeUTH-C.4ROI.INA & GEORGIA. t
5,5. From Edgefield court-house by Cambiidge, b
Abbeville court-house, Pendleton court-house, Hat- t!
tons ford, Franklin court-house, Elberton and Peters _
burg to Wafbiagion, and from Waibington by Pc
terlburg and Cambridge to Edgcfieid court-house, 0
once a week.
Leave Edgefield court-houTe every Friday byß aw, ii
arrive at Pendleton court-house on Sunday by 9 a m \
amve at Franklin court-house by 7tm, at Petcriburg f
on Tuerday by 10 a M, and at Walhington by 5 f
M. Leive Walhington every Wednesday at 6 A m, S
at Cambiidge on Thursday by to a m, and at Edge
field court-house by 7 PM.
j6. From Augusta by Washington, Greenlburg and
Lexington to Georgetown, oarx a week. J
Leave Augusta every Monday at 3 p M , arrive at "
Wafbington on Tuesday by 5 p m, and arrive at
Georgetown on Thursday by 7r m. Returning i
Leave Geoigetown every Friday at 6a m, and arrive /
at Augusta by noon on Monday.
57. From Gardens Comer to Beaufort once a week.
Leave Beaufort every Thursday at 2p m, and arrive I
at Gaidens Corner by 8 p m. Returning—Leave Gar.
dens Corner every Thursday at 5 a m, and arrive at t
Beaufort by 10 a. m. (
Note I. The Pojl Mafier General may alter the time* (
of arrival and departure ataxy time during the continuance
of the contract, be previoujly Jlipulating an adequate com- r
ptnfation f»r any4xtra expense that may be occaftoned there
h'
\<>te 2. Half an hour Jball be allvtved fir opening
anJ cloftng the Mail at all offices -where no particular tito, I
M JptciftJ. (
.11
No'e ■>. For tvet\Haur'4 delay funavomai.'tacciaenlt
- e<cebtedjinar,i:ing j) rr lie timet injtny ten.
iv I rati, the Contractor Jliall JtrJeil one dollar, and if ike dc
y lay continue until the departure tf any Jetieiding Alail,
mhereb\ the Mails tte/lined for such definJiuj; Mail, lose
s, a trip, a* additional jorfeiture of jive do.lars [hall he
1- incurred•
Note 4 Nttofpapers as veil as Letters ewe to he sent
d iu the Mails ; and if any person whing proposals deftrei
h t0 _ lyr v ne irftat>eri other than those conveyed in //- mail,
for his iJivn eat Jurnent, he muji fate in bis prMofals for
what sam he -will carry it with that emolument and for
tvbat sum ■without that emolument.
- Note 5. Should any person mating proposals desire an
" alteration of the times as arrival and departure alovt fpe
*' cified, bemuH late in his proposals the alterations deGred,
n an I the difference they-will make in the terms of bit ctn
'' tratt.
Note 6. Persons making proposals are dejired to slate
* ' their prices in gross by the year, ar.d not by the mile.
Those -who contrail will receive their pay quartsrly, w
the months of January r /ipril, 'July and Oa t (>er, in
drafts on tht<pojl offices on the route end in banknotes.
Note 7 The contralto are to he in operation on tISt JirH
day if April next, and continue for soar years, Until
3 1fl day of March inclujive, in the year 1803.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Po/l-Mafter General.
r General Post Oifice, 7
Philadelphia t December 18, 1797*J
e tuth&sti4thF
; NOT I~C E.
ALL persons who hive any demands agaiufl
theeftate of Willam Flbbwtood, of
: Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
" ceafcd, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
" properly artellcd ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
, payment, to
' kt £ Adminiflr'r.
No. ij, So. Third-flreet. )
Januai-y 4. dtf
To Cabinet Makers, Joiners, l&c.
1 Cavanagh & Hearn,
' Pine-street, near the New-Market,
' T> ETURN thanks to their friends and the
IV public, for their liberal encouragemen;,
\ and hope, by their unremitting attention, to
, merit a continuance of their favors. The Part
-1 ; nerfliip between them Jofeph B. Barry, has
: bean diflolved by mutual content. Ctvanagh
f and iiearn have just received a quantity of St.
' Domingo and Honduras Mahcgony, which they
' intend to fell on very real'oriable termss for cash.
c Orders from the country molt punflually txe
t cuted. Virieersof all kinds cut as usual.
Jan,. 15. , law^w^
' Musical Infirument ManufaSlory,
167, Arch-street.
TO THI LOVERS OF HARMONY.
HARPER,
INFORMShis friends and, the public, that he has
now ready for sale, i few of his sew invented,
' I and much admired fide board Piano Fortes, with
I Pedals,patent faftfl, fonopahant and French harp
" ; stop, which fq? sensibility of (ouch, brilliancy of
[ 1 tone, simplicity and durability of confirmation, the
fnperiiirity of which,he flatters himl'elf, a single tri
al vitl convince the unprejudiced judge—As they
ire manufatflured under his immediate iafpeition,
. of the very bed seasoned materials, he can fell on
- ; reasonable terms for Casb. Inftrurmmtt repaired,
. tuned, &c.
N. B. Second hand Piano Foites taken in ex
, change for new.
November 18. aawlmo.
' \LI persons indebted to the cftate of Pettr
j /V Gill, late of the Diftricft of Southwark, de
seafed, are requested to make immediate pay
, either xif. the Subscribers; and'thpfe
1 wtio trare any- Tjnnmtkr aguli.ft falO cOatC,'artT
3 requefteif to bring in their accounta duly attelt
: -ed to.
JOHN MURPHY, P
c PETER SCRAVENDYKE, C Jlxecu "
THOMAS FARRELL, 3 ,ors
t Philad. lan. 16, 1798. *2aw4w
FOR SALE, at
Wm. Young's Book Store,
1 No. 52, Second street, the corner of Chefnut street,
REPORT of the Committee of the House ot'
Representatives of the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
1 againlt WILLIA.M BLOUNT, a Senator of the
- United States, impeached of high crimes and mii
- demeanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of
the House of Representatives, authorizing the said
' Committee to fit during the recess of Congress, and
inftruding them " to enquire, and, by all lawful
: " means, to difeover the whole nature and extent •
" of the otfence whereof the said William Blount
' " stands impeachej, and who ure tho parties and
" associates therein."
Printed by order of the House of Reprefentati-ves.
December ao. §
Prison Manufactory.
FOR SALE',
At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of all frzrs, fronr to aoity '
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakers and Sadlers Thread
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and head Itones, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms, tlabs, facia, window heais, fills, c .
All which may he had on reasonable terms,
Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders from a distance, directed to Daniel Tho
mas, agent for the prison, will be attended to.
December 26. mth6m
1 I
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL presents his |
molt refpe.flful compliments to his form- (
er employers and the citizens in general, a*d re
turns his most grateful thanks, for the very
bountiful epcout agemeut he has expetieuced for
tnefe twenty-five years part, takes this opportu
nity of informing them, that his school is now
open, at his
Elegant Ball Room >
in South Fourth-Street, between Chefnut and
Walr.ut-ftreets. To begin at 10 in the morning
for young ladies, and i in the evening for yoang
gentlemen.
Dec. 8. lawtf.
j HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
TV/rRS- GROOMBRIDG'E with much pleas-
X X ure-and refpeift, returns her sincere ac
noAledgement for the liberal encouragement
fte has received during four years residence in
PhtladaJphnl; and aOures her friends and the
pubhc, so far from intending to decline her
lchool, (he has made a fupenor arrangement for
: the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—-Every kranch of ufeful and polite
, educatisn IS particularly attended to by Mrs
r Groombndge and matters excelling in their
. relpecttvcprofpffions.
. Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June jth, ,797. j ln>frf
The situation is perfe<sH r healthy ; and made
r more agreeable by an extenfiv* garden and lot
ot ground adjoining the house.
" City Commissioner's Offict,
„ January, 1701
\ ™r f E ,! Nr ? R " ATION 0F THE c '™**v
- I 't. . . fol, ° wm S. a j: ran gement is made bv ,L
"L 1 "flria No. i.—From the north fide of Vi„„
I street tothefouthfide of Mulher< r .fl re ' '" e
ir be under the fupe.imenda.ee of Nicholas Hi' t
"• rfc V wi hC l° Uth f,de of Mulberry (tree, ,
the south fide of Cbefi.ut street to be „rfe',l°
„ fupenndar.ee of Willj am Moulder dcr,hc
- .V 3 ' fr " m ' he south flde Chefnut ft ri .« .
/, ' he n . ortll f' de °f Spruce street, to he under tK°
fuperintendance of Joseph Cla yt » oole f the
4. From the north fide of Spruce street ,„.v
'' south of Cedar street, to be under Ih, V
.. of Hugh Robert,. twf lm
, The Subscriber * ~~~
Informs those to whom he is iiirf<.k,.,i .
p < books, w hich have been keptopeii for the'' 1 "
it tion fioce Decsmber 1796 are w
ult. and will dunng the reta
open at hi. Coupti-R-houf/in LwZt
further .nveftigation an d Wny. sot
Jan. ° REEN "AF.
Just recewed a Frejb SuppUT
English Grammar,
1 improvements,
F J\ wifhf, the different cla/Te, of karuers
■ fervatjons for ,£.. v contai "ing ru! « and ob
'w wiite ß wit r student!
: .. T hh m Dl^ ey Murray.
. c °ntains some of the belt rules for "PP* O "
&&?* •» >«#•*& « ss;
«. T • n Monthly Review, July 1706
to commend«^ a 'n. I rfce° Il i™ a m y a
carefully and j«oicioufly feleileT- Vti h "*
is dtltima and well adL.rf, L arjan g cmc «
ftrudion and ? •'
and accurate, &c t " perspicuous
: "•*»*
English Exercises,
I P M d t0 the Gram^r l«efy published bv
• the pansooff f fop' M"* °* 5
• tuation, and T"
perspicuity and accuracy, difiened f.r th h a
of private-learners, as
»Wq have been' muA pfe j°d with\°h fch
1 of tliefe Exerrife. TI.J h the P«ufal
ox tneie Hxerciles. They occupy with dilUneuith.
Ed excellence a most important place in the fciencc
of the English language; and as such, we can
warm y recommend them to the Teacher, „r
> Sch ' oo!s > 15 wcll to all those who are defirow J
, attaining correitnefs and preciton in their natiw
L tongue. c
> Monthly Review, Jnly
The above Books are for sale at Joseph £ ui ti
: Crukshanks book store, No. 87,Mark«L„
" r jL _3U»», '
' 60 Dollars Reward.
1 |) AN AW AY frem the fubferiber, on til jitli
, AV of December, 1797, a Negro Man, aboutii
years old, by the name of Cato, he is about j kn
- 7or B inches high, midling well proportioned' k :
has a very coarse voice, his fore teeth (land very
far apart; there were one or two with him-I
- cannot rightly describe the cloaths he took with
r him, for he took two or three fuiti; he had en
when he wdnt away, a pair of ktrfc;- irowfers, a
; half worn drab coloured coat, a half worn »4
?_
e cxpeA he has made for PJ,iUuT^w,fi e frrf-,
- Whosoever takes up said negro andftcureshim, h
that the owner may get him again, ftaji hm the
_ above reward, paid by me, JOHN MOORE
Living in Still Poad, Kent county, Mar viand
January 2. '6t» w .
Wanted, to Eire,
Al.arge and convenient HOUSE, in « nui
the centre of the city—for which a genetow
rent will be given ; to be taken for a year, or on
F more for a longer term. Inquire of th« Printer,
- OA. 17. eotf
s Valuable Books f
' Just received by the Fai* Amirican from
j London, and now opening and felling by
i J. Orwrod, No. 41, Chefnut Street. ,
1 CATALOGUES
t • Of the newly imported books maybe had gra
t tis. These added to O's usual flock, form an
2 extensive and elegant coUe£Uo» of ancient and
modern literature, and comprise books in fun—
. dry languages and on various fcbjefls.
This Day is Published,
By J. Ormrod, (Price 75 cents, handsomely
bound and lettered, and embellished with an
elegant froßtifpiece and seventy three cuts.)
' The Looking. Glafc for the Mind,
' OR,
The Juvenile Friend ;
Being a valuable colleflion of interesting and »
miscellaneous incidents, calculated to exhibit to
' young minds the happy effedts of youthful in
' nocence and filial afTeiflion—ln prose and verse.
Defigncd to improve and amuse the rising gene»
ration.
In the Press, and will be speedily published,
Dr. DARWIN'S
Plan of Female Education.
Subscriptions for this incomparable work will
be thankfully received by the printer. The.hook
will contain about three hundred pages, will be
printed with a new type on fine paper, and de-
Kvered to fubferibers neatly bound, lettered And
embellifbed with'an elegant frontifpiece, for one
dollar.
January 3. 3 t.
This Day Published,
Aad to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of
' Second and Chefnut streets,
Price 3-Btbs of a Dollar,
Observations on certain Documents
Contained ih No. V and VI of
! " The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In the charge of speculation againll
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Sickitaky of the Treasury, it FULLY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN BY HlMSftir.
This publication presents a ecncife statement
t of the base means prsiSlifed by the Jacobins of the
, United States to asperse the charadlers of thof«
. p«rfonswho are confideredas hostile to difor
ganizing schemes. It also contains the cor
respondence .between Mr. Hamilton and Meflrs.
. Monroe, Muhleal.Vrgh and VeDable, 011 the fub
jeiS of the documents aWefaid, and a series of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr.Ha
• milton, proving beyond the poffibih'ty of a doubt,
that the connection between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring confpiraay #n the part
of the latter and his associates to extort money.
£5" A discount of one third from the retail price
' will "be made in favor ot wholesale purchasers, for
t CAsa. Orders to be aidreffed to Mr. Youiia'.
Auguß 25.