of flic anbPhiladelphia
\NUMBER I 696. J
Nicklin y Griffith,
■ At their Store on Walnut Street Wharf—
HATH FOR SALb,
■ ' < V hhds. of Jamaica Rum
Wine in pipes and hhds.
Jfli cneriffe do. in pipes
Bold Port do. in hh
■lmperial Tea in quarters and eighths ef chefls
■ Sail Canvass, No. t,_to 3
B Dimities, Ginghams, and Muflinet*, in paclca
yes fuitabie far the JVeft-lndia market
9 Nails assorted
E Black quart bottles
■ Queens ware irt hhds. and crates „
I Yellow ochre dry in ca/ks ;
I And at New-York, on board the
ship Diana, from Liverpool, expelled round
as soon as the navigation is open,
Fine Liverpoel Salt
Coajs «
Spinifh Drown "J
Venetian Red |
Efe }
White Lead
Red Lead J
<Sofcr»thar vitriol
160 bundles Sheathing paper
Seaming Twine
Ship Diana,
YggjiM&pP For Sale or Charter.
ALSO,
N. B. The late firm of Philip Nicklin & Co.
is now changed to
NICKLIN ftf GRIFFITH.
January 1. eodtf
For Savannah,
Thefajl failing S hip
v^^mj T SWIFI PACKET,
(a reguhr trader)
» h-5V= Patrick Gri bben, mafler,
W)LL fail on , he , oth
f itre permitting) hashandftme accommodations
for paflengers. For freight or paflage apply to
the matter on borrd, at Bickley's wharf, above
Market-street, or
N. V J. Franitr,
No. 9J, South Front-street.
Ft'hruar v 3. $
For Amsterdam,
• j—<»i The Ship
FARMER,
John M'Collom, Mifler ;
fc«V' WILL fail in a fey days, the
of her cargo being
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or
passage, apply to the mifler on board, at Wal
nut-street Wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is landing, out of the laid Ship, from
Bourdeaux. and for sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter caflcs
Claret in cases, of a fupcrior quality
Fontiniac,
fianterne, > Wines in cafe*
Lunille, J
Prunes in boxes
Novembe 24.
For Sale or Charter,
jjljlft GOOD HOPE
Will carry about iaoo barrels, and
. is ready totakein a cargo. For terms
apply to
Praters f Co.
No. 151, South Second-street.
Who have fer sale—prime St. Croix Sugar
and Kum, Madera, Lilbon, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7. dtf
For Savannah, in Geargia,
THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captain Chisholm,
A new velfel, with excellent
for paflengers ;
Sails on the 10th Detember. For Freight or
Passage, apply to ROSS k SIMSON.
IVho bat to difptfe «f,
A small invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO, an 1 a parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
November 18. §
7n~the~press, u
AND WILL BE PUBLISHED,
( Price 25 Cents)
Reflections on Monroe's View
tr TBF. CONDVCr OF THK EXECUTirI,
Ai published in the
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
Under the figiiatur* ®f
SCIPIO,
In which the c»mnercial warfare of France is
trired to the French faftion in this country
as its fatircc, and the motives of the opposition
<t« the measures of the United States are exposed.
Feb. 8. '
Boston Glaf? Manufactory.
citizens of the United States ire hereby
1 informed, that the «f Window
Glass is now commenced at the Glass House in *
Bol'.on. *
It is needless to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of the Boft.n Glass, as it is so well known
throughout the United States t» be in every rcf
peiS greatly fuperier to any ever imported from
Europe.
It will be cut to any size commonly used-, and
may be conDantly had by applying t» Cltaritx F.
Kufftr, at the Glaf Houle.
Orders fr< ni the diltnit Statestobe addrclfed to
Mr. SamLel Gore, Court-ftrefr, Bolton.
Two or three g»od Glass makers are want
ad at the above work*; such as can produce re
roromcndatioi for good behavior, may be sure of
• raploy, by application to Mr. George f Jt Liudt, at
the works. Men without families * ill be pre
ferred However unacquainted with the methed
«f r.aV.irg Crown Window Glass, they will meet
with ih< fame encouragement.
Boston, January 16 1 —law/nv
A Nurse's place wanted.
A WOM 1N just arrived from England, wants*
place aa a Nurfeor attrndant on the f;ck, cither on a ■
Gentleman or Ladv. —For fuiihcr infc> mation apply
at Nv. to, South fourth ftnet, near.Marke Arert.
tcbi t. 51
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, FEBIiUART 15, 1798.
JUST RECEIVED,
AND lOR SALE, AT
W. Young's Book-store,
Corner of Chefnnt and Second ftretts,
(Price 50 Cents)
Causes qui fe font oppofecs aux
Progres du commerce, entre I. A. FRANCE et les
1 EFATS-UNIS de L'AMERIQUE.
Aree les Moycns dc l'acccierer ;
Et la comparaifon de la Dctte Nationalc
de l'Angleterre de la France, and des
ET ATS-UNIS.
In fix Lettres, addrefiees a Monfieurlc Mar
quisßE la Fayette. Tradtiit fur Tc Ma
nofcrit Anglais du Colonel SWAN, ancien
Membre de la Legiflatare dela Republique
du Maflachuffet.
Le Commerce tft la portion la plus importante des
(RichelTes Nationales.
LeTrident de Neptune, eft le sceptre du Monde.
Liwuaa.
Or causes that have been opposed to the
PROGRESS of 1 OMMERCE between
FRANCE and the UNITtO STATES oj AMERICA.
With the meana of accelerating it;
And a comparison of the National Debts
of England, France, and America.
In Six letters, diredted to the Marquis
de la Fayette.
Tranflaced (into French from th. original Eng
lifh Manyfcri t of Col. Swan, formerly a Mem
ber of the JLegiilature of Maffachnfetts.
Commerce is the most important portion of the
Wealth of Nations.'
1 The Trident of Neptune is the Sceptre of
the world* Le.milre.
AT a juncture when the qucftion of
a Comotarcial Treaty xvilb France may feoa
become an objeA of difcuflion, a workef this kind
becomes extremely ufefut to those eitizens of the
United States, who may be defirons to enable them
feives to view this fubjedt, under its various af
pecSts ; and they will have the fatisfadion to be
furnilhed with the necessary data, to judge of the
ufefulnefs of this tranfadlion.
This work is principally diftinguilhed by tlk
richness of the observations, the perfpitnity of the
ideas, and the modesty of the theory which it
contains. At Pars, a man of wit observed, that
this work was like a rich farmer's barn, heaped up
to the very roof with ufetul produce. It is addref •
fed to the unfortunate La Fatitti, in letters,
which fugitive the author who could only
devote a few weeks to this occupation, was obliged
to adopt. Although circumftanc-s arc iu many
refpefls different at the present day, from what
thty were in the year 1790, when these letters
were written, yet it may be justly said, that so ma
ny abfolutc and permanent data (till remain, that
the judicious reader will not appreciate the work
lets on that account ; on the contrary, as many of
the alterations, which have been made, are the re
sult of the author's remarks, it will serve to con
vince hmi that in all tranfa&ions, between free
nations, ev ry thing maybe expedtedfrom the ef
fort.ef truth andjuftice.
LETTER I.
General view of tha obtlacles,"created in France,
to ptevent the extcnCon of commerce, with the
United itat s—Obfervations made in a tour, taken
for that express purpose, upon some French manu
fadurts(a precious fragment this). Examination
and refutation of the prejudices exifling in France,
against the quality of ce-tain produflions of the
United States, and against the advantages of their
importation—-Demomtration of thi bad policy of
laying duties on their importation, principally-on
provisions in gi ner*l, and on sals provisions, and
fi'h in pa ticular—C'onfiderations on the regulations
of the French custom-houses.
LETTER 11.
Obflacles to the extension of trade with Fra»-e,
piocecding from circunitUnces and individuals in
the United States—Proofs tha; these ®Wftacles are
only temporary and will be removed (they have
been removed) by time and this wisdom of govern
ment—History of the influence of the American
paper money—lmportant jrinciples and abftrad
eonfiderations 011 money circulation—Causes
of the flagnation of American trade, after the
peace—Critical examination of French „oods, im
poried into America, and extraordinary conduil
of the French merchants—Effects of good com
mercial laws; and patriotic wifheson this fubjed—
Observations on money, weights and measures.
LETTER HI.
EfTay in the form f a taklcan, to ippraife the im
poitations into ine Ui.ited Statesfrom France and Eng
land untcd. JI he author examines at each article,
whether it can be better furnifhed fr»»m Franceor
England—lt is principally on this fubjcQ (which
would havealtoniDied a mete thforifl) that the author
appears to evince great commercial experience." These
kinj of taUeaax, uuhlckily as difficult to obtain as
they are much to be defited, are the only fuie guides
the flatefman can take for the policy of treaiies. de
prived of which he is continually deceiving or decei
ved. We cinnot too much admire the apparent ex
a&nefs of colonel Swan's calculations ; and although
the propbcfies of Lord Sheffield have already been
contradicted by experience, and by several able pens,
yet it is curious to fee the author of ih« present work,
dispute with him the only ground on which he has
not been hitherto attacked, by pro»ir* that Fiance,
under the required condiiiou, will be better able
than Gieat Britain to supply us with several articles,
which the English author allots exclusively and forev
er to the latter; the author's pvtia/ity tjfetl tm (if he
has any! does not appear to have at any time created
a partiality of judgment. The result of this calculation
is that in 1789, that is to fay, at a period when arts
and maoufafUies did sot present in France the vast
means and probability of extension which they now
poff.fs. that even in 1-39, it was presumable, that
Fiance v.ould not only hav< 1 ie means 10 supply one
half of anv given quantity of the produftions of Fmnct
and Ingland united, but alto ut enter into competition
wnh Gicat Britain for the remainder, in proportion
to the wildom of her government, and the industry
of her inhabitants'
LETTER ,IV.
Calculation of the exportation of the United States,
and particular examination of their fuitablenels to
France; this is one reafejn why, notwithflanding the
excell 111 work of Mr. Tench Coxe, Mr. Swan's t«-
Htau it by no means fupciiluous . the principle of the
advantages which would fefult to France from the
importaiirn «.f piovifiom and raw materials, is every
where applied ; and it is upon this argument, that
the auJior cltablifhes his demands to the French go
vernment, for the limited admission of the produc
tions of his country into France
LEITER V.
Tableau, of the debt of the United States at that
time—Opinions of the author on the finances, on the
efltftsof national dcbi, on ciiculation, tic. as more '
amply detailed in his National Arithmetic prin:ed at '
BoHon in the year 1786 ; the whole cilculaied to
flrcngthen in France, the pubi c and private credit
•f the Uni'cd Sta<cs—the happy condition of Ameri. 1
ca, and the miicries arifmg from it,e public debt in '
Europe, arc contiafted in the ablest manner, and un
der the mofl linking tela inns, by very cu ious cal '
culaiioni—Oblcrvanons on ihc wisdom and economy '
w'.ich p-efide over the public expends in MafTachu- '
fens. In this place the pa'.riotifm of the author ap- •
peats, with all the elcvattou which ajuft national
By John Fenno, N o ' il9 Cbsfnut Street.
pride inlpires. The ancienV governmenU of Europe,
fasyt he, will learn from us the art of ecanomv in
recompcnfing rhs fcivices which the country receives:
Among [I us it zvili be fren y that ptcn are ckojcn for places,
*nd not p'dcesfor men. This letter concludes wi.h a
I general view of the public piOpcrty, deposited in the
hands «f the government of the United States.
LETTER VI
1 General examination ofr the d'efefts of the commer
ciai policy of France with refpeft to the United States;
many of these observations have produced the effects
, for which thc*v «were intended, others still remain,
pointing out the reforms to be made in future, as a
i good chart marks the fboals and rocks. The au*hor
concludes his work, by fixing his attention oh his
country, and the great men who have "rendered it il
lnftrious; and we rake a pleafurc in quoting what he
fays of the present chief ot our government. To
praise a man when he e*ercife« a dillingwiflied em
ployment, is common, and may be taken for flattery ;
but whilst he is in private life, it is the homage of
fmcerity.
Note, page 316 of the work,
* Les des Etats-unis, fuivant dairs leur
choix le bien public, Sc excite* par un principe de
reconnoiflance, choiGrent M. John Adams pour vice
prefident du nouve'.u congres. Ses efforts, pour pre
server le peuple des intrigues fonnees par le gouv
frueinent Anglais contre fa liberie, le rendirent tres
fufpeft a ceux qui etoient en pouvoir. Le peuple,
convaincu de son merite, le choi£it pour un de les
reprefentans dans le premier coagrea. De ce nombrs
etoit aufTi M. Samuel Adams, pairiote aufli intrepide,
qu'infaugable. La revoimticin Americaine doit beau
coup a la perfevcrance de fe* tinvaux, Scra fes talens
diftinges* Ctux que M. John Adams a developpes
dans le naite de paix, qui s'ell'fait a Paris en 1783,
out orouve qu'il etoit ininiftre aufli habile que grand
po itique Et dans son ouvrage fur la defenfe de !a
conifitution Americaine, ii a mototae toutes les can
noiflTdnces qui formcnt lea vr.ris jurifconfultes & lc«
hommes de loi; connoiffances necttfaires, pourrem
plir honorablement les fonftiens de president du fenat
des E ats-unis.
House and Lots, in Bordentown.
BE SOLD, a handfaraie two ftoi y House,
with the Lot on which it is ere<sled, situat
ed about the middle of the beautiful and heaJthy
; Village of Bordentown. The house is farty
two feet in front, and in nc»t order. The lot
contains one acre, andisene hundred feet on
the main street, and extends with the fame
breadth to back street. Also, a large Lot, con
taining nearly four acres, separated from the
former by back (treet. One third only of the
purchase money will be required upon execut
ing a deed, ar.d far the remainder, such credit
w 11 be given as the purchifer may chufe. This
property will be fold free of all incumbrances,
; and an indisputable title given.
For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnes, residing in Bordentown, near
the prtmifes, who will shew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, No. 144, Market-flreet.
December 1. jawtf
Frinceton—New-Jerjey.
To he S»U,
THAT neat and convenient House in which
the late Mrs Ann Witherfpoon, now Mrs.
Ann Walker lived ; together with all the ap
purtenances. The house is two stories high,
of frame work and painted, There are four
rooms and an entry on the lower floor, and five
rooms on the second floor. The cellars are
dry, and the garret fpeciom—The back yard
is paved with ftoncs. In it are a well of excel
lent water, an oven, a fmokejjoufe, and house
for ashes—and behind it a carriage house, hay
loft, graoerv, and convenient stables, with four
flails for horses, and. four for nea: cattle. The
lot is 60 feet wide upon the street, and 154 feet
deep, somewhat more than half of which is
made into a kitchen garden of an excellent foil.
For terms, which will be made very reason
able, apply to the reverend
Samuel S. Smith.
January 19. iaw4w
For sale or to be let on grounds
rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth flreets, fronting the Statc-
House square. This lot is fifty-one fe#t front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at -
present two small two story brick heul'es, and a
number ef small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, sice. situate on
Water flreet, between Mulberry an-J Saflafra? 1
Streets, containing in front «n Water street fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the .
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houl'es
have the convenience of a pubi c alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and area very dcfirablefit
uation for a a merchant, flour fatAor, or others
who may have occasion for storage of goods.
This property will be fold on very reasonable
terms for rash. For farther information apply
to the printer. I
_ July 31. _ m&wtf
To Cabinet Makers, Joineis, &c. -
Cavanagh & Hearn,
Pine street, near the New-Market,
RETURN thanks to their friends and the
public, for their liberal encouragement, !
and hope, by their unremiting attention, to 3
merit a continuance of their favors. The part- 1
nerlhip between them and Joseph B. Barry, has j
been diflulved by mutual consent. Cavanagh i
and Hearn havejuil received a quantity of St. '
Domingo and Hondu.as Mahogony, which they 1
intend to fell on very reasonable terms for cath. r
Orders from the coimtry most pumStually exe- *
cuted. Vincers of all kinds cut u ulual.
Jan. ij. xaw4w
" IN THE PRESS, " I
And speedily mill be Publijhcd, b
For the benefit of the
MARINE SOCIETY of the IJNITED STATES, ~
A general plan and fyftcm of Regulations therein :
Written at Sea, in the year I 794 .*
And now r
Mr THE AVTHOI. g
* A NAVt would be maintained hut so an almc-ft 3
useless purpefe which taking the seamen kept the
merchantmen idle in port, and trading veflVls
wHild be as unprofitably employed, if they took
all thofefeamen whofefkill and courage onboard (hip.*
of war, would give them pr teclion and fccure A
their fafety. We hav« enough for both purposes,'
and the cultivating U:\nd of atftentioo alone is want
irgT to ifcultiply their number. " Money may buy J
u JI usval ftor»s, except mariners; but, unless a
" supply of them i$ prefcrved, no wealth will be
u able to procure them."
February 7. S
L n ' Bank of Pennsylvania.
AT a meeting of the Stockholders, held at the
a Ri»nk on Friday, the 2d February, 1795, pursu
e aot to public notice—
On mttion, Rrfolved, That, this no acting; be
ing inn>r<ffed with a due A*n f e of the exfraordina
ry fervices-and attention of Samuel M. Fox, IT4.
; this Bank, in the exception of the du
s ties of his office ; which have been much incrcaf-
l t ed by the peculiar situation of the institution, at
a the period of his appointment; and 1 y the diffi
r cultics occasioned in confequeuce of the recent-ca
s lamity in this city a committee of three gentie
e men be appointed to prepare a piece of Plate, of a
J value not exceeding five hundred dollars, vrith suit
able emblems and devices, to be presented to Mr.
Fox, in the narrs of the Stockholders, as an evi
f dence of the high sense th«y entertain of his late
official services.
illiam T. Smith, Peter Wikoff, and Charles
Biddlc, Efqrs. were appointed a committee for the
above purpose.
Ordered, that the preceding reiclution be pub
lished. I
ExtraA from the miniates.
WILLIAM T. SMITH,
/- Chairv:an.
Attejl—JeHN StTCREAVxs, Secretary.
Frejh Fruit.
To-morrow morning will be landed, at
Morris'j Wharf, just above the Draw
bridge, the cargo sf tlio schooner Frade
rickfbmg Packet, C.-.ptaia Ptarce from
I Malaga, vi*.
IBloora Rairins in kegs
Do. Do. in boxes
Mufcatiel do. in do.
Figs in kegs
Almond kernels in cafet and bpjes
Soft fhell'd almonds in sacks
Prunes in boxes
Grapes in jars
Anchovies in kegs, &c.
The whole of the ai tides fci'ppsd as of the firft
qualities*
For Sale by
Peter Kuhn.
February 5
Bafkenridge—for sale
IT <?onfifts of 920 acres, almost all of wkieh it
a fins rich Meadow, (the refidenc«of the ]*t«
Eerl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five firms, four of which are bounded on the
Eafl by the river Pafaiek.
are on it a number of buildings, forming
afq"are of nearly three acres—The dwelling house
is a very convenient one fmall expend: would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard conufls of 1500 fin* bearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other parts of said
trail near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great
varie'y of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
best and most delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
Forcft Trcc-s, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its situation is about 18 miles
fr*m the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town v and II from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in calb, on delivery »f the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chcfnut' trees.
February 2. eodtf
Prison Manufactory.
FOR SALE,
At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel- '
jhia, 1
Cut Nails of all C.zes, from siy to tody 1
Floering Srads, Spriggs, saddle and card Tacks
Oakum ;md chipped Logwood
Shoemaket s and SaJlers Thread
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb :r!td hear ltones, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms, slabs, facia, window hea4*, tills £ ,
All which may he had on reasonable term*,
made and Weaving done at said Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders from a dillance, directed to Daniel Tho- '
mas, agent for the puifon, will be attended to.
DcccruUr 26 mtU6m J
Just Published,
And to be had at the Book-Gores of Mefirs. Dob
s©k, Cav.pbfll, Young and Ormko d,
in Philadelphia
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caules and Cure of Remitting #f Bilious
Fevers. i
To ivbich ij annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and prailiceof
different authors: and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interesting fa&s and refledion* relative to
the Synocbus liieroidts, or Yellow Fever, which i
has occasioned so much diftreft and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the fcaport
towns of the Tlnited States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felow of the . Philadelphia College of i hyficians, 1
and Member of the American Phil© ophical So
ciety- Feb. i—*.3m§
Canal Lottery—No. 11. (
P
WILL commence-drawing Monday, the 2»th K
inft. Tick«s for Sale in this Lottery, at d
Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBLJRN's Lott«ry
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-street d
l ickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten J
Dalian, where check books are kept lor register- P
ing and examining in these, the City of Walhing- «
ton, No. 11.and Patt«rfon Lotteries, and informa- f 1
tion where tickets may be had in moll of the Lotte- ti
ries autborifed by law in any of tha States of the
Union. p
N. B. The bvfinefsof a Broker, inbuyingand
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
cJifcosnting Bills arid Notes of Hand, falc of
Lands, House., See. will be duly attended to,
by WM. BLACKBURN.
November 15. §
For Sale,
The time of a young Mulatto Girl, about
twelve years «ld, has about eleven years to serve.
She is very capable of taking eare of a child,
and underftapds liotife work. Enquire at No.
97, North jth street.
Jan. n. *eo<liw
"JuJ] Pubtiflied, T
And to be had of Meflri. Pobfon, Campbell,Rics,
Cary, and the other pricipal Bookfcllers in tSc H
citf.price.oue dollar, twinty-frve cents,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the T
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, «. d.
June »o. S,
FOR SALE,
BY the subscribers, No. 21, Penn-ftreet,
lc T/jf Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander, from Bengal,
Conftjling of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
q. Goflaea Punjum Clpths
>• San.ihs Gurzey do.
f- Hurohuras Charconr.a Dorta
it blue CI ill Tanjibs
'* Chintz ana Calicoes Mulmult
Mamoodys Checks
- Maharjgonges Patna Hkfs.
* Ginghams Mulmu! do.
Guzzenas Uandannoe<
f* Gunahs Siflerfoy
l " Pmialcoes Choppa Komah
Saljratchys Somy do.
s Gillie Rnmals Perfuns of various «il.
' Mock PuKcats
ioo tors SUGAR
ye.dcwi lb. PJEFPER.
Willi ngs bf Francis.
The Piece Goods ■
Of the Gauge, are no* open to sale at that
commodious Itore the ntrth weft corner of
■ Market and Fourth-ilreets.
Also—A few Baie»ut Ma draft Hkfs. ef els
gant patterns and belt toloars.
' FcblUßry g. ' dtf
FOR SALE,
;By WHARTON LEWIS,
No l»5 Soutji Front Street.
A quantity of Taiuier'i Oil,
4th proot Jamaica Rum, ") entitled to
ift and 2d proof iSrancly, J drawback.
Madeira Wnte,
juniper Berries, &c. Sea.
Fe '->- 9- eodtf
St. Croix Sugars.
«6 heg&eads belt ST. CKOJX SUGAR,
WOU SALE BY
JOHN NIXON & Co.
P c b- 9- fm&wtf
—————— i " " ■
Wanted,
An a&ive, cleanly, industrious woman to eook
a/id do the business of the kitchen. Such a ou«
will be allowed good wages, and no oth«;r need ap
ply.—Enquire of the Printer.
February §
WANTED
A young Gentleman to go
Doftor ol a ihip to the East-Indies.
Enquire at No. Do k Street,
Fcb - 6 - _ diw
Ran away from the Sulfcriber,
On the 24th January iaft,
A Black Woman, named Zelime.
SHE is ol a middling sized flature, thick lips,
marked with the small pox in the face—She
carried off a biindle of linen with her. Whoever
takes her up and brings her to the fubferiber, at
No. 181, Arch-ilreet, corner of Fourth-flrett,
(hall receive two Dollars reward.
J. LAZELLES.
N. B. Whoever harbors £»id Girl after this 110.
tice, shall be prosecuted to the fisveriry of the law.
Februaty 10.
~ NOTICE. ~
ALL persons who have any demands against
the eftatc of WILLIAM COMfTOSS, lat
o£ tbe city of Philadelphia, decsafed, nre rcqutf
ted to furnifh their accout.M. duly attested. And
those who are indebted to ' id eftatj, are earnsfllv
solicited to make immediate payment, to either of
the fibfcribers.
Isaac Cathrall, 1
John Haworth, i- Adminiflratorv
Samuel Wilesx. J
January 37. wt4 w
NO TICE.
A LI. persons indebted to the estate of Peter Gill
i V. late of theDillria of Sosthwark, deceased,
are rcqueited to make immediate paymentto.either
of the Subscribers; and those who have any de
mands against said ellate, a(jc requested to bring ia
their accounts dnly attested, to
John Murphy, ")
Peter ScravenJyhe, C X£CU "
Thamat Farr'cll, J tors *
_ Jan.ary 16. 'awaw 4 w
Lately Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, cornejof
Second and Chcfnut ikrests,
(Price yfiki of a dollar)
Obfer vat ions on certain Decuments
f 'omained in No. V and VI of
" The History of the United States for
the year. 1796,"
In which the charge 01. speculation againfi^
ALEXANDER HAMILTON
Late Secretary of the Treasury, is FUI LY
REFUTED,
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.
This publication presents a concise ftatemtnt of
the base meacs praitifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the chara&ers cf thof«
persons who are conlidered as hoflile their difor-
K'aniziHg schemes. It also contains the correfpun
dence between Mr. Hamilton anil Messrs. Monroe,
Muhlenburg and Venable, on the fubjed of the
documents aforefaid, and a scries of letters from
James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Hamilton,
proving beyond the possibility of a doubt, thsttli.#
connection between him and Reyneldswas thr re
sult of a daring conspiracy on the part of the lat«
tur and his associate» to extort money.
£3" A «. fconnt of one third from the retail
price will be made in favor of wholesale purcha
sers, for cash. Orders to be addreflid to Mr.
Yowno.
February $.
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DR r GOODS,
r Forenoon —Edward Fox, No.
M uJa ' f°4th Front-street,
1 Afternoon—Footman 4c Co.N»,
Soutb Front-street.
F»renoon—John Connelly, Old Citv
A L " nio "> * Nn n f°uf'h Front-street.
} Afternoon—William Shannon, Nt,.
l!? High-fti-oet.
«""<»•>{lSmSS*"' No -"
ThurC'/iv J frwenoon—fdwird Fox.
I Afternoon—Jolmi Conuelly,
FriJnt ( Forenoon —W ilium Shannon.
) Afternoon—John Conaellv.
Satitrdaj iV'tcrnoon —'Peter Benfon.
\VOLVMIi XIII.. a ui aNLt y TtK r,-AV n. |
[ i«t nT Prizes and Blanks.
157 th Day's Drawing—January I. <
A'o. j,.a. Au. Dels. A'«. Dots. No. Ms. Hi
IT >. 367 ,
T -r x .? » * 816 »•'
;t , . x*o 95* 3 8, si
x -«37 *
Jl>lx 6c6
7?0 X T,lfS i" X I
4o 7 Uioi * X ,
... 4.1* !
3 4 U l I rifi
hiOO 38; - 899 bei
il'L tc 1 9 1 * Sii * fer
~, x 191 x 687 16 64» we
695 >75C5 8 9J * * IAS I in
n )\ 840 x 17748 x 4,346 x th|
4.9 ,8 9<59 * »»7*» x < 6 3 - ' 8 i a ,
568 »9°59 »9 11 9 x 300
x ' jß 779 J T
no 437 X 3-97 47^97
7 x 38s x 404 743 CO
J0143 *°i 10 15 tic
al*. 7 384 3»6»8 387 ge
1049' 590 337«8 496-*
«xA;.» 1T173 33 ? 3" 9 3 th
TO theTublic.
THE Eoitoxs o' iht N°X TBl V' fi
Stai >rd Hailt Adv»*ti»e*, r^P«a |ull y / 1
form tKcir pm' ni and ihe p"hl t c, ,he P u^ I 'l
ST Uich P pronniffd .hi. day, .. un»v o ,dab,y ca
poftpontd .nd Co. ch
a
PROPOSALS fai
Jot p. blifcins > D,i! V in the No'.hern
Liberties of Phit.r elph.a, to beledy l P
NORTHERN LIBERTY SfJR,
AND DAILY ADVERTISER. of
cr
COUDITrONS. ,
a a- The Nor'bern Liberty Star .nd Daily Adverti
(r>r shall be prin'cd oa a good paper of a demy w
vvi h . ha..df.metyt-e, a '" i of
delivered to fubfcribcr. in the N.>«fc*»n Libemei,
City »nd Cermaniow-n, the hour, of four "<
»nd fix o'cl°elc
ihe price to fubferibers, will be sia noLLAts a?
i fr annum, one «nd an half to be P"d •<
The time of fubfenbing or at the end of every ih.ee
~>* Tl T n c Sar (hall contain the Arriv.U. d'arwefs it
Piicrs Cuirent, Stocks and all Bine' Pubhe 811 _
nrfi wi ieh may rend-r it ulef Jto ihe übfcnbn»
.Ih •,'dvertifements will be received every-day umi.
two o'clock, and i ifemd she fame evening, in » 3
neat and c "'fpicuou» manner, an the moll model- n
' v.r rr ,p.ior.s, aiiic'.es of iiitelli'enee, »dverii-fe
,, i, Will bt thanktultv received until Monday t
-.ext. 'a' .'><• Prinims-Orfice, comer o( St. John, and J
C. T aß ,a ,-flren., betw.en Seeoi.d and I hir(l- {
r.-, ». . n
• * Ihe P inter, of ifce Unlifd S|« e«, who may
V ifh 10 e*c.han«e (-a er«, i t lequeftcd to
Jind on t'niV p»pe.»a. fo.n 3. pollulr. e
f'-h n»rv 14. - r
Ths managers of the City Dane
ff, mbiy give notice that tire anmverfary Ball
to roxm-rnUe th, birth of 6.0.01 W ASa.NO t
Twii' v,r held a Mr Ri.ket?. Circus, tke t
' Feb. IV I
For Bremen, 1
Th'e Dani/h Brigantine j
J0 H ANN A y .
John Andrew Thieff.n, Mtfer. 1
EXPECTtI) to foil on the 18th indatit. For (
i /V,V only, apply to the captain on board, ,
at Hamiltoa'. wharf, er to -
EDWARD DUNANT,
2%' a. 149. -South Front-firea, 1
•Vho rcquedi aH those hiving accounu against 1
tiid veflel, -.0 exhibit the fme for payment, pre- ;
viou. to the 18th 111 ft. as no demands will be pui ,
after dwarture from hente. _, , 1
He P>.i pit on bar.i, cf ih Ccrga 0] fati vfjftl, from
80 kegs freSi Raisins
116 jars "? (- jne y oorT v ditto
Jc 5 c ases j
90 boxes Mufcate. ditto
10 kejrs Jigs
8 P?P C ' \ fupcrior Catalonia W ino
tj hluls. J r ...
Malaga and Mountain Wire in hhds. qr. ealics
fnd a'i qr. calks fine old Colemanar Wine.
Tebruary 13. ' U ,
notice
TS hwebv eiven, that the SubfcTiher, an infol- j
1 vent debtor, confincl in the common pnal of |
the Court-/ of Cape May in the -state of New-
Jerrer, hath prtfentM his petition to the Judges
of the Inferior Court of Common I leas, in and
fer the said county, pra\ ing that they wou.d
attend ta hear what can be aPcdged mr ora-
I cainfl his liberarion, purfuan; to an ail ol the
I egiflature of this State, entitled '«! in' a« for
th - rel«f of insolvent debtors," pal Ted th; xOth
<!ay of Ja Uiry 1798 — And , lhe f ./f"!
«id appoint Monday tie a6th djy of , lar h
next for the prrnofe aforefsid ; Jo meet at the
Court House in tne Middle Piecing, at e. eve 11
o'clock, in the forenoon of the said day, ol which
t>is creditors are requeflid to take no '"-''-
» CHARLIiS ALLEN.
(Jape May, Feb. S, 1798-
' Feb '4 —ia>tw .
Flax Seed for sale.
# aipp'y to
GEO. DOBSON,
No. 15, «o«th Third-IWfet.
Jannary ty
OVAL BOTTLES.
Quart and half gallon in crates—and a quanti
tv of Claret Bottles of a right size i'or sale at
No. f3 . Church Alley. JOHN DORrEY.
Jinßary rt jtaw6w.
A House in Burlington for Sale.
<~t HE fubfirriber has a convenient two
\ story brick House, with Stablesv Carriage
keufe, and a well improved Garde*, in the City
of Burlington, New-Jersey, which he wifhesto
sill. » ? or termsapply at No. 5, *outh Fourth
ftrcet, to GF.OUGE WALKER,
Who has also for Sale,
Ldts in Washington City,
Contiguoufto (he Cjpitol and to the principal ,
harht.ur.
r)e* ember 10 •.
Lost—rYefterday in the Market,
AN ORt>F.ll drawn by ca| t- R chard O'Brien,
favor of Join I arknm, ou Mr. TencK Francis,
Purveyor of l'.M.e Suppli -s. Whoevtr ha. fo«.d
•he fame. i> r.qntftcrl to leave it at 1 komas l ar "
Vnm's, aRo fcuth Front-ftrect, «r at this t-Ifice
Vayment being flopped, it can be oi no ufeto any
but the owner '7-3'
- FOR SjILF., i 1 *
Several fonts of Types —half worn.
lneluding Long Primer, a' out 4*o weight, in
food condition, and would ai fwer th« furpe fc o.
> country Printer as well at new.
hit june oI the Printer.
i CONGRESS.
a _ fix
' HOUSE Of REPRESENTATIVES
i-v
1 DIBATI ON TUI ILIfOUT Of THE COHHIIIH
or niviLto*!. ▼ ,
__ aft
MONDAY —FEBRUARY 11.
(Concludedfrom yejleriays Gazette J
Mr. Gallatiw said he ftould not hare gi.
! risen tgain on this fubjeft, if it had not cu
been to explain some things which he had drj
! before said, and which had been misrepre
sented. After explaining these Mr. G. an
went oh to (late that no aft of disorder done :
in the house ought to be noticed farther than
the decorum of the house required, as the A ,
laws were ready to take cognizance of in- mi
juries committed on members as well as on
those who are not members. He quoted the , „
constitution to ftiew that this was the inten- \el
tion of it. Indeed,. he did not believe any °°
gentleman on that floor would lay he want- ( J"
ed prote&ion; they could generally pruteft rrs
themselves ; and if not, the law would pro- Kit
test them, as it protested others. But it
was said offences vvhicji had a tendency to if- wi
turb their proceedings ought to be puuifhcsl.
This he allowed, but he would puni/h them on
in a less degree. Mr. G. referred to the
cafe which has already been mentioned of a
challenge f*nt by a member of the Senate to fei
a member of that house. That bulinefs he
said was referred ti a committee, but the
parties having written,letters of apology, ex- a £i
attly in the tenor with.that of Mr. Lyon, »>
they were deemed fufficient, yet the letter : |
of Mr. Lyon is spoken of as aggravating his (lc
crime. Mr. G. did not think that a vote
of ctnfure and a reprimand by the Speaker ai
was a flight punishment. It was said no a£t
of offence had ever been committed like this
nor did he think any punishment had ever w
been inflifled by this government so severe f c
as a vote of censure by the house. Because m
the member from Vermont had not received d'
so polite an education as other gentlemen,
it was supposed this punithment would not h
greatly affedl him ; but he supposed he was r<
not wholly dead to every kind of feeling, ,
i and nnlefs he was compiled of different a ,
materials from other men, such a punish- n
ment mult be considered as a very serious one. j|
z He should, therefore vote forthe amendment f
! Mr. G. added that what Mr. Lyon had p
" said respecting the representatives of Con- J
? nefticut was fpeken of as if it made part of f,
a the charge against him ; as this was not the
ease, he thought any obfervatiens on that v
- head would be better omitted. e
Mr. Dan a condemned the wish that had j
il been expressed for pafling a silent rote upon a
this fubjeft, and particularly the conduft of j
1 theg«ntleman from Maryland(Mr.S.Smith) c
- for having exprcfled such a wish. He said (
x it appeared as if gentlemen had determined a
to vote against the txpulfion of the member j
from Vermont, and were afraid of hearing ,
any thing which might convince thera they ,
r- had done wrong in so determining ; or were ,
the gentleman from Virginia, and others, ;
J ' who were so ready to speak to the public on j
other occasions, afraid to do so on this, |
from a conviftion of the weakntfs of their (
ft cause? Mr. Dana took notice of the cases (
e - stated by the gentleman frotu Pennsylvania, .
to whose manners he paid a compliment at 1
the expence of his logic. Spoke of the ne- (
cefiity of pteferving decency and dignity of
manners in all public bodie*. The member
from Vermont, he said, had been very free
in his remarks upon Connefticwt ; but to
have merited the hatred of the gentleman
from Vermont,tyas by no means difgraceful.
He should wrong the Rate of his nativity,
Ik,*' he should wrong his colleagues and-himfelf,
k. were he to undertake a formal refutation of
this calumny. The citizens of Connefticut
will disdain the idea of being enlightened by
that memb§r's knowledge, or of being re
: volutionized by his power, as they will re
of pel with indignation any imputation against
their representatives in Congress—represen
tatives who were born and educated amongst
i!d ' them, and «vhom, in consequence of their
j- good opinion of them, they have appoint
ee ed by their unsolicited fuffrages, to do their
or national business. Hadthe aflertion no other
,th currency than the member from Vermont's
'j| word, he should not. have noticed it; but as
he it appeared upon thf journals, and had go«e
cu out to the world, he thought it necefTary
ch to fay what he had said on this fubjeft. But
for these calumnies, it was probable, he said
that the outrage on Mr. Grifwold would
not have been committed? but what could
- be a more serious charge against another,
than to be told "you have betrayed your trufi f"
This was what gave all the keenness to the
epithet of co-ward, when applied to au offi
cer. Mr. D. said he did not mean to cast
any blame upon gentlemen who differed
from him in opinion; noj would he envy a
ny gentlemen the plcafure they would have
in the company of the gentleman from Ver-
Y. Mont ; if they chufe to afTociate with such
a Kctmeil of Filth, let them do so ; let them
prtfs him to their heart, and salute him as
e ' their brother—they may do it without envy.
ro ' Let them be delignated as the companions
F f ' of Mr. Lyon, by being pointed at, by
" There gtet the number of Congress, <who
r , h voted to have Matthew Lyon as a companion !''
, If they felt themselves invulnerable to such
a reproach, lie acknowledged he had not at
tained to their degree of infenfibilfty. He
■ himfelf would put him away, as citizens re
'" moved impurities and filth from their docks
t -and wharves.
et, Mr. S. Smith thought, as he had deter
ien, mined to fay nothing upon this fubjeft, that
icis, he should not have received the censure of
®* <l any cne. He had conversed with several
ir " gentlemen on both fides the quettion, and
an y he t&ought, in order to avoid a lengthy dif-
H cufTion, which could have no effeft but pro-
duce heat, it would be belt to take a silent
vote on tlx question. % The gentleman just
rn ' down had called upon him as a military man.
'• He did not come here as a military man,
°' but as a IrgilLtor. It frerrid as if gentle
men were determined l* Bake him fpcrkoa
tki» fiibjeft ; if he Isnd '.vifhed t« do so they J aft
would u«t have been able to have kept hiAi me
silent. He thought the gentleman last up me
had made a speech to little purpose. If co
military opinions were wanted t two milita- ioj
ry genthmeo had already given their opin
ions. If twenty years ago, lie had been bil
asked an opinion, he fnppofed he should ad
have givenfnch a one as the gentleman from re;
•onnefticut/ would not have liked to hear.
Mr. Dana did not <wijh the gentleman to be
give his opinion, and hoped he would ex- tei
cufe him for having given his, though he ta
drftred him not to do it.
The queftioH on the amendment was put cc
and negatived, 5* to 44. til
mis sorry to detain the" Committer th
one mnm«ni; btntfrom hi* peculiar si nation, he con
cciwifi 11 prope^to exprc'fs the motives of his ctip»du£V.
Ai the co.league of ttte member Irom VcnwtU, it "t!
might be e*pccled from the community ot interells m
between the two diftritl* thhey reprcfiented. that he
(bould endeavor to support Ihn member. But, fir, I
l:«\e attended with much pain and patience to tuc i»»- t>
\elhgation this fubji& has undergone, and, fir, not a ft
doubt remains on my mind that the member from j-j
VeriroHt haabcen guilty of grpfs indecency arid infuit aj .
to this hf.u'c, 1 hav# not a doubt, fir. that tin; pow
ers veftcd in the House of Representatives b\ the Con-
Hitution are amply fuHicieni to punish such indecency tfl
«ud such tr.fuit ; and that the resolution now on the Jp
table prescribe* ihe oxily puhiiViir.ent commtnfura t
wi h the < ffence. *
It become* me, Sir, to*!make this publie dechrati- tr
on of my lentitnenis, as a dut\ which I owe to this q|
—aduylovte my constituents —the conft<tu-
enti of the < ffenoing mcntbe and myfelf. For lam .
peiluaded, fir, that tiieciuxena ol Vermont wou d re
sent any conduft ot iheir Representative so derogatory tc
to tac honor and dignity of Congress, and their own
charader. j.
The member from Vermont has violated the char- '
aftei and «onfidence vefisd in bun by b,s conttutfenu; tr
and the re o'unon to paf»-—tliat they may ex- w
heir diiapprobatinn ot his fc'ond»-61, by w
ing another psnon to^firi• thai Uat. JFiom their con- i -
fidtra'ions, he (hould resolution his-fupj»on, * L
j The question on the resolution was put p
and carried, 51 to 43,
The committee then rofc, and reported P
I the amendment to the resolution, together ci
with the evidence which had been taken be- b
I fore them. The house took up the amend- n
ment (relative to the offenlive words iu the t(
I defence) and agreed tu it, 49 to 46. n
Mr. R. Williams then renewed his a- tl
mendment, for confining the punifhtnent to c
I reprimand.
I • Mr. Brooks hoped if the house did not H
I agree to the bigheft punifhnient, they would 11
I not agree to the lowcft which they could f j
I inflict. He did sot fuppsfe the member v
from-Vermont would look upon this as a 1
I punishment ; and if no other was to be or- t
I dered, the house wouldlget >id of his of- 1
fences.
1 Mr. Macon said it was observable there 1
I were two opinions in the house ; one for l
I expulsion, the other for a reprimand. He (
I did not think the offence was such as would (
I authorise an expulfian. He said there had *
I been as many illiberal expreffiont in the 1
I course of this dehate as he had ever heard-.
I Gentlemen had talked of party doing this, !
I and party doing the other,whilft they them- |
I felvet are the firft to mention it. He bop-
I e<Hhey would have kept these things out of '
I the fight of the world. If gentlemen of '
I one description voted one way ; those of 1
' I another, voted a contrary way. As for the 1
I punishment of being reprimanded in the 1
1 I face of the house, which would be entered
I onthe journals, hethought it a very serious '
' I one, and he would almost as soon be hanged '
1 j at once. He hoped, therefore, the punish
' I ment would be thought at least equal to
' I the offence.
1 I The question wu now taken, at heretofbie ftaied.
WEDNESDAY—FEBRUARY 14.
: I Mr. Otis, from the committee to whom
5 I was referred that part of the speech of the
1 I President of the United States, which relates
* I to the re-imburfement of certain advances
> I made by Consuls in foreign countries, made
» I a report, stating that it was supposed 30,000
f I dollars would be fufficient for this objeft,
1 and recommended the adoption of a refolu-
Y tion for effefti»g the measure, which was
- I committed for Fiiday.
Mr. Harper, from the of ways
* I and means, who had been inflrufted to en
- quire whether any and what alterations are
I I necessary in the law refpefting the entry of
r j Stills, was direfted to make a report on the
* I fubjeft. The report was accompanied by a
r I bill making an alteration in the manner of
r making the entry of Stilli, by doing away
8 the annual entry after the firft of July next,
8 I and requiring that after a Still has been once
e I entered, it shall be again entered only in cafe
Y I of removal.—This report and bill were com
-1 I mitted for Monday.
I The fame gentleman, from the fame com-
J I mittee, to whom it had been referred to en
d I quire whether any and what alterations at)e
'• I necessary in the aft laying a duty on stamped
I vellum, parchment and paper, was direfted
, e I to make a further report, recommending
I thae a deduftion of 7$ per cent, should b«
I allowed to all pMrchafes of stamps (except
d J colleftors of revenue) above the value of
l " I twenty dollars, and that a certain deduftion
c I should be retained by the colleftors of the
r * I impost duty, from drawbacks on goods ex
h I ported, instead of the stamp duty proposed
n I to be laid, which it was dated would fall Ve
ls I ry unequally, according to the feale propo
'• fed in the law. A bill was reported at the
1S fame time making these alterations in the
y law.—The report and bill were committed
I for Monday.
Mr. Sitgreaves presented the application
h of John Parker, for printing the Jeurnals
t_ of the Old Congress, stating the terms up
on which he meant to undertake the work. !
c " Referred to the committee to whom hasbeen
II referred a reftJution on this fubjeft.
Mr. D. Foster from the committee of
r- claims to whoft was re-committed the report
at on the petition of Henry Hill, made a long
»f report on this fubjeft, which was commit
■al ted for Monday.
id The bill making appropriations for the
if- support of Government for the year 1798,
0- and for ®ther. purposes, was read the third
nt time and passed.
aft Mr. Harper proposed to add the follow.
in. ing regulation to the Standing Rule* and
in, Orders of the House, viz.
le- " Resolved that the Standing rules and
oa Order! of the house be amended by ioferting
after rules refpefting motions for adjourn
ment, provided that nd motion for adjourn- tl
Vient (hall be received, except by Unanimous bi
consent, whillt any other mouion i» pend
ing." Ordered to lie on the table,
The amendments of the Senate to the r«
hill for the relief of the Refugees from Can- si
ada and Nova-Scotia, were taken up and a
referred to a Seleft Committee. P
The bill from the Senate for sale of land e<
between the Great and Little Miami in the ri
north weft of the Ohio, was also o
taken up and committed for Monday. Vl
Mr. Nicholas wished, as in some degree
coanefted with the fubjeft, to present ape- b
tition from a number ot persons fettled near w
the mouth of the Kentucky river, who ft
wiflied to purchase the fame, which would •
be proper to fce referred to the fame com- °
mittee. He wished also to move an instruct:
tien to the committee, to enquire what pro- o
grefs has been made in carrying the ail into
effeft for the sale of land north weft of the y
river Ohio, and whether any amendments J
arc necessary in the said aft, particularly as
to the price of the land. Mr. N. believed 11
there was little probability of the land fell- F
ing at the price which had been fixed, and f
persons who might become purchasers, if a
the price was reasonable, were now moving r
off to the Spanish Territory. He thought *
ft would be well to prevent this, and there- _
fore moved this inltruftion.—lt was agreed
to.
Mr. Sitgreaves moved the order of the
day on the report of a feleft committee on
the memorial of the people called quakers;
which motion being agreed to, the house
went into a committee of the whole on the
fubjeftj. Mr. Dent in the chair. The re
port having been read,
Mr. Thatcher could not fay that he was f
perfeftly fatisfied with the report of the '
committee in all its parts. He wiflied the j 1
business dffpofed of, without coming to a- j
ny deo'five resolution upon it, so as either j
to approve or disapprove of it. He W3S ,
not ready to fay that the fafts disclosed in
that memorial were exclufively'of judicial
cognizance, and that the legislature of the <
Union wa3 incompetent to do any thing iir •
it. It might, however be true, but it was (
not clear to him. He would rather that the
fubjeft "should not now be a&ed upon : he ,
would, therefore, propose an amendment
to the report, which might conclude the j
business, without coming to any resolution
upon it, which had been the course hereto
fore taken with similar applications. He
moved, therefore, to strike out the resolu
tion giving the petitioners leave to withdraw
their petition ; and if his motion was agreed
to, he should wiftr the committee to rife,
and that the house would not aft further
upon it at present.
Mr." Rutledgc said, he, as well as the
gentleman from Massachusetts, was diffatis
fied with the report of the feleft committee.
He thought the report ought to have ftat
r ed that the peace of certain states in the U
p nicn had been much disturbed by applies
f tions of jhis kind. He had prepared a re
. solution to this effeft, which he would read
, in hit place : It was as follows :
i " Resolved, that part of the material of
5 the people called Shaken, has a tendency to d'if
j turb the tranquility of some of the slates of the
Union ; that thit house is not eompetent to aO
} upon, and therefore they have leave to with
draw their memorial."
There could be little difference of opin
ion on the assertion that the internal tran
j quility of several states had been disturbed
e by these applications ; and he believed there
, would be no difficulty in obtaining a major
-3 ity, of the house to declare it-j as if the re
e prefentatives of three or four states were to
3 rife and declare the faft it must have fuffi
t cient weight to carry a declaration of this
- kind. He had, however, mentioned the
s natter to some of his friends, and found it
was not very agreeable to them, as they
swished to get rid of the business without
- debate. But if the present motion were to
e obtain he should afterwards bring forward
,f this resolution.
e [The Chairman declared the motion of
a the gentleman from Maffachnfetts to b« out
,f of older.]
y The question on the resolution as report
y ed was put and carried, there being 74 votes
c in the affirmative. The committee then rose,
" e and the house concurred in the report.
On motion of Mr. Gregg, the unfinifc
ed business of yesterday (the bill for the re
-- lief of O. Pollock) was postponed till Mon
ye Mr. Coit called for the reading of the
d petition of Anna Welfli; which having been
d read, he proposed the following resolution
g for adoption:
l 8 " Resolved on the petition of AnnaWelfh
>t that a committee be appointed to bring in
>f a bill for allowing the legal reprefentativea
in of George Hurlburt, deceased, late a cap
ie tain in the fervic* of the United States, the
k- commutation of half pay which was due to
:d him."
e- After a few observations, this motion was
0- negatived, 50 to 31, the question having
*e been decided iu an abftraft manner, when
ic the business was before thfc hoafc some time
:d ag°i the period of war was at
tempted to be fixed earlier than it had been
in heretofore considered to have been, in order
lis to take in the of persons who died be
p. fore the latter period. It was determined
k. also that the prayer of this petition could
en not be granted.
Mr. Livingfton called up the report of
the committee of commerce and manufac
,rt tures on the petitions of William Dixon,
n S John Bagl'ey, and others, which was con
ll* curred in, so far as it related to William
Dixon and John Bagley.
On motion ef Mr. Thatcher, the house
went into a committee of the whole on the
bill granting the right of franking to the
w Attorney General.
nd Mr. Harper moved to amend the bill by
adding "and the officer commanding the
nd troops of the United States which was a
ng greed to.
The committee rose, the house agreed t»
the and the bill was ordered t»
be eugroffed ror a third reading.
On motion of Mr. Gregg, the house
went into a committee of the whole on the
report of the committee of claims on the
fubje&of making prevision for thp widow*
and or phan children of the officers of the
army of the United States, who were kill
ed in an adlion with the Indians, in the ter
ritory north-weft of the Ohio, on the
of November, 1791. The report was fa
vorable.
Mr. Davis moved to amend the report,
by adding Jlfilitia Officers. He thought it
was only reasonable, that an allowance
fhonld be made to the widows and orphans
•f militia officer*, as well as to those of the
officers of the army. The Kentucky mili
tia were out on that expedition, JKid federal
officers were killed.
Mr. D. Foster proposed to make the pro
vision general, ami to go back to the 4th of
M«rch 1789.
Some objeftioßs were urged to thisamend
ment, as it was apprehended, from its cam
prehenfivenefs, it might endanger the pas»
sage of the bill, as the Senate had rejefted
a former bill of this kind. The committee
rose, without coming to any decision, anj
had leave to fit agjiiii. Adjourned.
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY 15;
For the Gazette of the United States.
MX. FINNS, t .
As it is said the elaia of certain creditors
for payment of bills which were endorfcd by the
United Stater, and lodged id the Treasury agree
ably ro the aifl for limiting claim* will soon come
before congress, you are requested to publish the
following report of the Secretary ot the Trea
sury upon the fubjeift—which has never been
adled upon.
" The certiScates or bills of credit called new
emission money were emitted pursuant to a refe-*
lution of congress of the 18th March 1780,
which dircfts ihem to be emitted upon the funds
of individuals states, to bear an interest of five
per «entum per annum, payable in the
redemption of thebills, or at the e'eflion of the
holder, annually at the continental lean offices, in
Jierl.ng bills drawn by the United Stares upon
their commissioners in Europe, and pledges the
faith of the United States lor the payment of
the said bills, in ease any Jtate tn whafe funds
theyjkould be emitted Jhould by the events of rjsar
be rendered incapable to redeem them ; directing
also aa endorsement to be made on each till in
tbefe words " The United States insure the pay
ment of she within bill and will draw bills of
exchange for the interest annually if demanded,
according to a resolution of congress of the 18th
of March 1 fto."
These resolutions and the endorsement upon
the bills engage the promife of the U
nitrd States for the payment of the interest in
definitely, and their eventual guarantee of the
principal, in cafe any fla'es on whnfe
funds the bills should be emitted (hould by the'
•verts of war be rendered incapable to redeem
them<; —which is in tftd, though not in form>
an abfolnte guarantee of the principal ; for the
United Statts are bound t'.- ppy the intertft ptr
r pet Haltj nil that is discharged.
Good faith demasda that the United States
, fliould supply the omiiTions of the Rates which
I iflued the bills, by providing themfelves,atleaft
for th* interest upon them. _
But it is not as eaiy to pronounce on whtt
terms they outfit to be provided for.
On their face, and according to the unrevoke
ed resolutions of congress, they are of specie
[ value equal to their nominal amount and bear
ing five-per cent interest.
But it is kcown, thaj they were ifued by dif
ferent states at different inferior values fixed by
previous laws'
1 The true nature of the contrail therefore, in
■ faS, and the true equity of the cafe, are from
1 these circumstances involved iti fonne question,
A compromise by a new agreement seems the
best road out of the difficulty.
This i» the aim «f the propofition.-f' which it
r is hoped will in the main reasonably consult all
' intereils
) There have been fpeeial references of this
1 fubjedl to the Secretary ; but he purposely de
clined a report till the expiration of the tern
£ limited by the ail entitled' "An a& relative to
claims against ihe United States not barred by\
any a&aflimitation & which hav® not been alrea
dy adjufled" gaffed the 11th of February 1793,
bad obviated a danger to which the business was
s txpeled :—lt is now ascertained that the amount
, for which the United States shall be in future
liable is ninety thousand five hundred andfeven
ty-four dollars. The sums fubferibed to the
loan, will of course be a charge against the
states which refpeAivelyifiucd the biils."
* This appears to be a ntijlake, as upon enqui
rj it cannot be found that any eft he fates did pass
* such previous laws : It may be presumed they did
n not ; to put such bills of credit, and upon inter
-1 eft, into circulation, and at the fame time or pre
vioufiy to pass a lam to impair the obligation to
pay them, would have been -viewed by atl men
as an nfl of perfidy and fraud—Th refore, it
Q ' will not be fuppefed that any of the fates ever
1 puffed any fueh previous aas ; or that if such
- afli had been passed, the United States mould bt
e influenced by them, or tfny other fubterfugs, to de
-0 viate from a national engagement.
+ The proposition of the Secretary was topro
-3 Itide for the principal only.— lie seems to have
been drawn into this er roby the rr\ifriforma
£ tion refpedingtbtfates pajfing "previous laws,"
n _____
MR. FENNO,
„ I Some time ago observed in your Ga
,r xette an intercepted letterfrom citizen Mo'n
.. rOc at Paris, but to whom diredted, I did
d not learn. I have some curiosity to know
j who this Democrat could be that was f»
kind as to offer to cross the for the
exprefs purpose of fumiihing Citizens Beck
ley and Bachewith intelligence ready cook
ed and fcafoned to their abominable palates,
' tfhd feat over in such form as to be depends
ed an.
From the following cireuraftantial evi
j. dence I conclude that it certainly mfuft be
Do&or L n from the name of his lady
,c being mentioned in the letter—from the at
le tention ciuzen Monroe received from him
immediately on hiitipival. It is well known
>y that the Ddttor bragged ot the honnr he
ie had in the company of citizens Monroe,
8- Jefferfon, 4cc. See.' He however forgot to
, mention that citizen Blcunt had the honorof beingn«e.«f h'« croupe. j«ft byfor? bis , HL
tloftment, asd from the report in his iw:gh
bonrhood about that time, ihatlthe Doctor j _
wis going to Franc:, to fight in the cause
of our great and magnanimous ally—whe
ther with a wooden sword, or the pen was
rot mentioned. I (hould not_ have noticed
these circumftanrfi at the time, Ind the,
Doftor remained quiet—but his turning out m
for the purpose of eleftionecring, not in his l
own neighbourhood (bis popularity there i«, t ]
and T' hope ever will be at an end) but in
Delaware county, where he has been very
busy, in recommending Israel as a true dif- t ;
tiple on whom the Democratsmight depend,
renders it proper that his political chara&er Q
(hould be better known than it is—this can- f e
not be effefted in any better way than by re- ; n
ferring tofafts. It is notorious that altho' n ,
he was so full of fight before, that when f e
ealled onby thecounty troop of horse,( which hi
he then commanded) who had like true pa
triots voluntarily offered their ferrice to gov- ft
eminent against the Wcllern Infurgants, he g
was obliged to relign his command and found q
it very convenient to take refuge in a fitter ai
state from the just resentment of an enragsd 0
people who he had endeavoured to miflcad w
by seditious publications entitled " Obfer- a
vations on Excifc Laws, &e." These were 1,
landed through the town of Germantown— (
the inhabitants piufed for a moment ; re- h
fleftirlin soon silenced the voice of discord, r ,
aid thepoifoned arrows would have lecail- si
ed on the abominable miscreant could he t;
have be«,n found in the State. What has c
happened may take place again ; it there- (
fore behoves the inhabitants of the county v
to be on their guard against the machinati
ons of men whose exertions t« mislead and
deceive are only equalled by the wickedness
of their intentions. Whoever is brought in
to the Senate by the interest of futh mes will
not, dare not »fe his own judgment, he e
m%ft, he will become the tool of the " /*- f]
tlufive pat r his. J
For the Gazette of tbr Ignited States.
~- e
MACBETH a
Wii performed eu Monday cv nir>g r® a thlii ,
Jionfe. Mr. Hardintfs made a firS attempt a
Lariy Macbeth, ami it it finaere'y hop.d it Bi*y !>> a
the lafl. The grean room, or tke rchearfal, may t
be proper pta«s to cfTay the anilities of perform- j
«r«, hut it isfperting with the feelings of the pab _
lie so bring forward sn adtref;, who can bdaft of
but few ftagt requifitri in a part thai requires al 1
»no£l every dramatic excellence. At prcfcut the '
company have ao Lady Mach-tb, and the flay r
will be better laid aside than brought L
forward only to be umtoatomi. Mac
beth was the only perfect charadsr in the piece,
and the audience had only to regret he wai net
better fupperted. <
Theraain ehjedt ef Farce, accordingt« Oar-Wit.
U /• feni mm audiemee -lint in goiJ humour U their bread
sm4 the eft. I; wan fortunate, therefore, lor th
managers, that the Padlock was chofea for the
evening ; for if the entertainments had eaneln'l
ed with tht tragedy (near xo o'clock) we (hould •
have left the house with bad imprelCons, aad worse
ftomae^i —both the evils were remedi dby keep- ;
iog us till a late hour for good cheer. Mn. Mar-
Jhallfiiugand played with sweetness ansfpirit, and
coalequently with a fafciuatiag efftft. Bernard '
slafao Mungo—He wai manifeftly deficient in
forae essential requifitca of the character, hut hit
gcfticclatten was irreSrtably humorous ; in naany
parts he defeated the felt-pofleffion even of hit fel
low a£kori.
It would be well if feme others of the perfor
tr-crs would take a hint from the jbdicious exam
ple of Harwond and Bernard, ia (hewing a great
er regard ta the minutia of their jsfcrts. Whilst
their attention be entirely kbfnrbed in the
bufincfa of the scene, wo frequently fee rhem fixed
in aniaanimate ti rpor, or gaaing ftedfaftly at the
audjenct. This is mejl file ! SMELTY.
grand hifteric Pantomime of Oscak and
MaiviNAi which is advertised for this evening,
will bp one of the firft theatrical traits the n;»aa
gers have yet gives the pablie. It has the advan
tage of being got tip uader the direfiian of .Mr.
Byrne, by whoai it was firfl prodaced at Cavent
Garden—The music is by Shield—The fesnery by
Milt'aurue, Holland, Jcc. These advantages, ad
ded to the confirmed abilitiis ot the varioas per
formers engaged in jt, ethihit fu«h a combination
•f merit asc»nnot fail of being highly attractive.
——■ an —a——— si I ..IMS ■■ ■■■ I ■■ ■■ m.
NEW-THEATRE.
THURSDAY EVENING,
FEBRUARY 15,
When will be presented the TRAGEDY of
The GAMESTER.
Beverljfc mr Feanell—Stukely, mr Warren—
Lewfon, *ir Wignell—Jarvis, mr Morris—Bacet,
xnr Taylor—Dawfon, mrWarrell, jun—Waiter,
inr Hunter.
Mrs Beverly, mrs Merry (being her firft appear
ance in that eharadler)—Charlotte, mrs Francis—
Lucy, mrs Doctor.
To which willbe added (for the firft time) a Grand
Kcroic Pantomime Ballet and Spe6tacle, taken
from Oflimn, called
OSCAR and MALVINA.
[Comppfed by Mr. Byrne—and performed uuder
hit dire&ion at the Theatre, yCovent Garden,
upwards of two hundred nights.
The new Music composed—and the ancient Scots
Music (clewed asd adapted by Mr. Shield. The
Overture by Mr. Reeves.
6fcar, (the descendant of Fingal) mr Byrne—
Carroi, (the Scottish Chieftain) mr Hardinge—
Fingal, mr Taylor—Morven, mr Marshall—Dra
co, mr Warrcll, jun—-Scotch Pedlar, (with the
Song, 'I am a jolly gay Pedlar') mr Francis-
Scotch Lad, mr Fax.
Scotch Lafiie.mifs Melbourne— Malvina (daugh
ter to Tofcar) mrs Byrne.
Principal Bard, mr Darley.
Bards—Meflrs. Fox, Warrell, T.Warrell, Hun
ter, Bliffett, Matthew, See.—mrs Warrell, .tiifs
Milbonrne, mri Stuart, mrs Hunter, mad. Har
wood, Ac.
The Scenery, part painted by Mr. Melbourne, and
part by Meflrs. Holland and Stuart.
Reprefcnting*— The Hall of Fingal, with a
Banquet preparatory to the Nuptials of Oscar
and Malvina.
The Mountain of Ecu Lomond, with the
Military Procc3ion of Carrol ta the Hall of
Fingal.
A view of the Sea and Rock from which
Oicar escapes by leaping from a high precipice
[ into *he arms of his Soldiers.
The Bridge, with the Camp of Carrql.
The death of Carrol by the hands of Mal
vina—his descent into the Sea—and the confla
gration of the Camp of Carral.
£5- Ou Friday, The ClandeJUne f.tarriajc.
Box, one Dollar ; Pit, three quarters of a Dol
lar ; and Gallery, half a Dollar.
T. t c^ette.
■ - P\'
j H i LA D L PHI A, 1
THIiRMSA*. hVKKING, FEBRVAiIT ij. ( pe
MR, FINMO, i
Left the affair which toot place this ?
morning between Mr. Grifwold and Mr. , 1
Lyoa (hould be misunderstood, I fend you 11
the following account of it which having c "
been shewed to several gentlemen who were
eye-witnefles, may b« relied on as autheti- a
tic, and accurate. ,
Before the house was called to order, Mr. 1 1
Grifwold came into the hall and took his T 1
feat with a eane in his hand. He was read
ing a letter when Mr. Lyon, who had
not before appeared since ht finifiied his de
fence, came into the hall with a cane in his '
hand also, and took his feat, the houf< not
being yet called to order. He placed his
stick beside his chair or behind it, and be
gan to write or to look at papers. Mr. mi
Grifwold perceiving him, teok up his stick, la'
advanced towards him in front, from the el<
oppefite fide of the house, and struck him hi
with the stick. Mr. Lyon either immedi- E
ately «n receiving the blow, #r immediate- da
ly before, rose, advanced towards Mr.
Gr fwold and endeavoured to close in with R
him. This Mr. Grifwold avoided, and
repeated the blow nine or tea times, > n
striking sometimes on the head and some- IS
times on the shoulders. At length they hi
closed, and Mr. Lyon was thrown by Mr. P 1
Grifwold, in which iituation Mr. Grifwold a J
who had fallen with him,. 'g;ave him one rl
blow in the face with his fitt; and then va
they were separated. *
a bystander. tc
- f°
At a numerous meeting of the Citizens ec
of the Diftridl of Southwark, and town
ship of Moyamenling, at the tavern of Capt. ' r
John Rice, Mr. Joshua Humphreys in the '1
chair
Refolded, That we will use our utmost ex ' n
ertions to support Benjamin R.Morgan,
at the ensuing eleflion of Senator to r pre
sent the city and county of Philadelphia,
I and county of Delaware ; being' convinced
I that at this time, peculiarly important, and I fr
I mterefting :o all the advocates of the ad 're
I minittration of the government of the U ; u
I nited States, to support those who are known
Ito be the friends of order and good govern- T
I ment, is a measure which our duty compels
I us to adopt.
Jofliua Humphreys, Chairman. ra
Peter Mierclen, Sec'ry. •
14th Feb. 1798-
I 4t a meeting if a number of the Citizens of the f }
city and county of Philadelphia, at Ogden's jj
Tavern, on Tuesday, 13 th February, 1798, t j
I it was unanimously refolded. I t ]
To support Benjamin R. Morgan, |
lat the ensuing Eleftifti, as Senator for the j {
I Diftrift, composed of the city and connty
of Philadelphia, and county of Delaware.
LAWRENCE SECKEL, Chairman. v
M. Keppile, Secretary. d
d
I The fijlowing is a lift of a part of the ft>-
I reigncrs admitted to tske the oath of allegiance,
I and fware to support the conflitution of the :
I United States. j f 1
I The second column,»re a few of the names of ! v
I those who swore that those foreigners have fer ] «
j % years past and upwards, to the best of their j
1 knowledge, behaved as men nf good moral cba- I j,
I raifler— : attached to the constitution of the U- ,
I nited States, and well disposed te order
I and happiness ©f the fame 1
I Country Naturalized Sworn to be of good moral J
cnara4ter. r
J Ireland Peter Bell John Corr.ifli c
do Wm. Burnfides John Cornish ,
do JohnThompfon John Cornish
' I do Henry Qnig Jol>n Carniih 1
I do James Stuart John Cornish r
I Adam Kamage ' t
, I John Miller j
I Ireland William Lyle j
John Peter Horty j
• I Ireland Alexander Cook s
I Aa James Mal'ony Elifha Gordon
do Thomas Kingston 'Elifha Gordon . >
Thomas White William McPhail 1
James Stewart William McPhail 1
John Inners William McPhail ,
James Ronaldfen William Met hail
Robert Elliot William McPhail
. I Ireland Robert Brobjlon Jobn JobnJlon
, I Robert Jacfcfon Jobn JobnJlon
\ I Ireland John Johnftoa
1 do William O'Briers Rohfrt Brobjlon 1
- I John Hendeifon J&n JohnJton ,
- I Ireland James Carson Connelly Stotkkard
j do Connelly Stock bard James Car/or.
Nicli. Richardson James Carson
d I Thomas Brown ,
n I George Erohft
I Ireland Michael Hickey
John Lyon
r I Ireland Samuel M'Csnn
1 I John Talliana
' I Ireland Gordon McNeal
:s I John Wright
e I Ireland William Wilfort
I do John Workman lf»acfao*ey
-I da Robert Fofler Isaac Hozey
- J do Wm. Loughheed isaac Hozey
1- I do John Brady Isaac Hozey
1e I do John Fergufon Isaac Hozey
- I da James Meade • Isaac Uozey
Robert Bhtr,jun. Samuel Dilworth
>- I Patrick Galbreath Robert BUcr, jun
I Ireland John Rogers
Thomas Vizer
'' I Ireland Daniel Gicry
John Boiler
John Bason Simuel Dilworth
. I Robert Bloer, fen. Samael Dilworth
William Bason Samuel Dilworth
I Ireland Patrick Keily Abia Bickham
Jacob Wouters Abia Bickham
>r I John Weeks Abia Bickham
1 Ireland John Hill
'®| John Miles
I John Lang
, ] Ireland Hugh Kelley
® I William Vance
ce 1 Ireland William Gartley
Samuel Salter
I Ireland Sam. Park, jun. Samael Park, fen.
tl- I do William Smiley
ia- I do Thomas Dobbins William Bell
j do George Corper
William Deal
Adam Davit
ol- I Ireland Huf!e! Paik James Reynolds
ll'm. Cood/elltVi Jf rn M'Dovgall
! On TucfdaJ night afcout 12 o'clot!:, a
fire was discovered in a back building occu- \\
pied by Mr- John Svkes, as a bow-room for but
his fliop. It appears very evident that the . >'■> ■»
j fire was occafiuned by lome evil dilpofcd Wl ''
i a chunk of wood was found as- j
• ter the fire irfas rxtinguilhed, which had : com
been placed these fur the purpose. It was , urc
■ discovered faun after it began to blaze, or zrns
it must hare been attended with very serious i
ctinfequences, as Mr. Morrell's llores con- w, ' e
tiining ■ number cf crates of ware, were.
adjoining. As there were two other at
tempts in different parts of the «f rt y, about ( ; on;
the fame time, it u highly neccffary that 0 f 0
the citizens (hould be on their guard. than
the
COMMUNICATIONS. ' V<! "
To the Free Eleflors of the City and County of
Philadelphia. j veni
Fellow-Citizens, ,tlt 1
After a full and fair investigation in the j
mode pointed out by our constitution and
laws, Mr. Israel has been declared as unduly f orc
eleflrd a member of the State Senate ; and law:
his feat being accordingly vacated, anew of f<
EleSion is to be htrld for a Senator, on Thurf- f'"" H
day the 22d instant.
The Candidates propafed, are Benjamin .
R. Morgan, and the fa id Mr. Israel. lO 'l,
Compan'fons are sometimes considered as
invidious, but surely. when important business
is to be tranfa&ed, we ought to employ F
him Kvha is the mojl capable ; and no man will
pretend to fay, that on the score of gener- 1
al information, talents, and legislative expe
rience, Mr. Morgan has not greatly the ad- e .'
vantage. ' e,v
Mr. Morgan's private cbara&er is equal f"ff
to his talents ; and his mind not being pot-
foned by French politics, but strongly inclin- ' lav
ed to peace, and firmly attached to our pre- aci
sent happy government ; he wishes his coua- He
try to b'e independent, and free from foreign
injlucnte. rne '
The right of Eleftion is one of the most 'he
important duties that can be exercised by
freeman, and ought never to be neglefted.
A Country EleSor.
Feb. 14, 1798.
Reports have been propagated by the
1 friends of Mr. Israel, that Mr. Morgan has
' refufed to serve ; which the writer of this
is authorized to fay are falfe and groundless.
To John Barker, chairman of a meeting at
George Lefher's ou the 13th instant. p ra
You havfc thought proper as one of a the
meeting to publifti to the world that an in- 1 mo
jury has been done to the friends of Mr. j tio:
Israel, (not to the People of the United States J wi]
by the vacation of his feat prompted as you thq
1 ! fay you believe, by men not friends to equal j a nd
liberty—Do you or any person present at c ha
' , that meeting know the principles on which tro
that feat was deelared to be vacant? If you w h
I do, you have a degree of boldness unparal- fitii
leled when you fay that they do not consist re q
with those of equal liberty. The best a- pl t
pology we can make for y«u is to suppose fori
you wholly ignorant of the merit of that' thi
decision. Let me tell yoa the committee hei
determined that, every foreigner of good </«
oharaSer, who had shaken off his. allegfance
' to his own country, and declared under the am
felemnitics prcfcribed by our laws that he tra
f ! would support the g»od order and happiness thi
r! «f this government was entitled to a vote. a b!
r | Would you have done more? Would you am
fuffered men whol« eharafters were un- m i
r I known and who had not given an evidence an'
of their predile&ion for our government to mt
il participate i* the sovereignty of the Amt- of
'• rican People ? Do you contend that every e o
one whose private have brought 0 f
him here, or whose public 'crimes have driv- th
en him from his own country shall the mo- ou
taent he touches the foil of America possess -F:
the power of legislating upon she rights of so
property, of personal liberty, and personal p C
security? Are these your principles of equal jft
liberty? If they are, I abominate them.— ju
Every. American, who considers the United re
States as an independent nation, and who of
il wifttes to render true liberty, is inefli- vr
ill mable in its value, immortal in its duration, th
!' will deprecate your fentimcnts. fe
- An Enemy to Misrepresentation.
—T w
Mr. Fenno, w
Will you be pleifcd to a(k the members tn
of the different meetings, who call Mr. If- p(
rael Israel, a friend to peace, and an enemy d<
to war, what became of a recognisance ta- tk
ken from him by the Chief Jnftice, in con- tl
sequence of seditious language, uttered in
favor of the Western Infurreftion. il
A CORRESPONDENT. fa
MR. FENNO, fc
At this period of absurdities, of a truth a
may it be said, that a manknoweth not him- al
felt. I thought -myfelf a republican, and n
exulted iu the thought of holding every, w
essential privilege incident to the chara&er o
of a free citizen. I have always deemed
fubmidon to the 1 laws, and ac<}uiefcence in u
the decisions of the constituted authorities, c
t jj to whom I had chosen to delegate accordant v
un powers, amongst the prime attributes of re- b
publicanifm. I have deemed italfo my dub
ty on all occasions, peaoeably to prive in my t
vote for chara&ers recommended h T talents f
I and integrity of life, as public officers, with- 0
out attempting to inveigle my neighbor in- c
to the peculiar current of my own politics, c
, 3gainft the contrary conviftions of his rea
son, judgment, dr understanding. Thus t
profrffing—thus praftifing—l oerily believ • t
ed myfelf walking in the path of republican- /
ism. But a new practice (founded on pro- ' r
fejftons of more perfeft purity and patuot- j i
ism) has got into vogue, and claiming to \ c
be al(o Republican. The Republicans af-'t
ter the new form, revile their own delegates, 1
en. a nd oppose 'heir decisions. Either these . I
men are hypocritical pretender*, or I am I
no Republican. If their conduct is Re- I
publican, I can only fay that Republican- <
ism is fall going down to the (hades, and 1
Us must ere lorg find refuge only in Hell or in i
ill France. ( 1
A New G'svcrnmrnt on the Miffiffip:. ' -
Wf'earn wHx pteslu'r that arc a* r
biiut effalilitfliinj rneWkgffvornmeyt on the I> m- ,
VJers ef the Nlifl:fTlpi, in crrtrr to pref.-rve pcn'e c
with theliiaiinb in that qua "ter, anl to pre- j
vent (lii'lniba-.ce» with ihe white people now t
Tetrlf*l fßrminx-fcitl. inents there, an'l ai(i> to y
comrA i due to tie laws niatle to lc- •
> ure W1 xiSI atten'ion on the part of our citi
arns to the treaty rnatie with Spain-
ThelV fever»l important olijedt canncn uth?r- <i
wife a;taine<l, and thereffcre thr wisdom of our r
government i» fiianite.le Iby this ineafure. It
will likewise tend to prevtrt fbture difticu ties f
with the Creek hy forming an ad-li '
tior.al check to thtir defijns agajnft the pcop'e .
of Gs rjia. Moreover, a-there are now m re
than two hundred thousand pjople fettK-d on >
the weltern waters on the ill the Hates of t
lventncky an 1 TcnadTff, ard as this number 13
rapidly increafinp, the trade 00 thit vast nver,
will he an immediate objedl, and require the ef
tabliftment of a cufjnm house to colleit Ihe re- j
venue—Befi les, as that is the preat boundary of
the United States where population will be ex
tremely rapid, it is ef infinite importance thafca
government Otouldbt organized there by native
citizens of the United States before swarms f
foreigners arrive to give a wrong bias. f»«<jd
laws and maxims cats established, the acccfliAi j
of foreigners may be becefiaial, as they may be |
furmeil to our principles. In every view of this
great national reafor. leeini to urge an '
eftablifbment of such a government without de- 1
lay., and the friends to our country arc happy 1
to leirn that it now engages the attention ot the ,
Federal Legislature.
NATIVE AMERICANS.
Feb. 1798.
A correfpondunt who was in the house at
the moment of decision on the question rc
fpe&ing the gross indecency of Lyon ob
fetves, that if the minority had possessed
fufficicot spirits to raise their hanging heads
and down cast eyes, their confufion would
have been much iacVeafed,by a view of the
faces in the mod crowded gallery everfcen. i
Here contempt and indignatiot) were depict
ed in every feature of taen feeling the tor
menting disgrace now indelibly attached to
the name of their country.
ExtraCl from the Vermont Gdzette.
To those whoaredazled with the brillian
cy ,of French comjuefts, and still confider
that country as the only af/lum of una
dulterated liberty ;"who can clearly discover
that the cause of freedom is promoted, by
the conversion of Europe into oge vast scene
of blood, and by the subjugation of Holland
! Italy and Spain, under the •dominion of
Franee ? who still have faith to believe, that
the overthrow of all social, political and
' moral eftahlifhments, without any substitu
tion, except military force, in their stead,
, will increase the happiness of society Sto
those who can consider the de-moralizing
1 and dif-adjufting policy, which has of late
charafterized the French revolution, as in
trsductoryto a millennium in politics; and
who can contemplate the unparalleled requi
sitions of their Buonapartes, as the modest
requests of the a|K>ftles of liberty j to Peo
ple who have fentimcnts like these, the late
british viflory overthe dutch, orindeed any
thing which may tend to check France in
her mad career of devastation, mujl be matter
deep regret.
But to persons who have been attentive
and impartial' obfervcrs of the important
train of events, disclosed upon the politfcal
theatre for three years pall ; and have been
able so difcern,through the envious fa&ious
and changes in the revolution, one predo
minant character, that of an ungovernable
ambition j who have beheld with astonish
ment and concern the total difjdj'iftment
of the political ballance in Europe, and the
confequeiit danger of a complete ftibverSon
of fogial order thoughout the universe ; to
those who have a just and feeling sense of
our own critical situation with refpe& to
France, and who believe that a reverfr of
fortune in the war, would operate much more
powerfully in producing a comprumife of ex
isting difficulties than the most indubitable
jufticr, or manifeft right ; to those whose
reflexions have been tbus, the late vidlory
of the English, and every other event which
will likely diminish the exorbitant power of
i the " terrible republic " must be matter of un
feigned joy.
As to the enslaved Bitavians, I am filled
with sorrow, that any thing fhouldj happen,
which will add to their accumulated misfor
-1 tunes: Happy would it be, ifinftead of lup.
porting the arm by which they are borne
' down, they would exert their power, in
■ throwing off that despotism under which
- they groan.
i When in ancient hillory I travel though
the viftorious course of Alexander and Ce
far, my feelings elevated by the heroism and
splendor of their aftions almost make me
forget the evils they produced ; but upon
1 a moment's reflexions—l sincerely rejoice
- at any event whiah flopped their career in
i mifchief and folly. Just so my feelings are
r- with refpeft to the Cefars and Alexanders
r of France.
d To fee a nation impelled to arms, by the
n unholy fire of Jacobinism, proceeding on
1, conquering and to conquer, prostrating go
t vernmenti, ana! begetting new republics,
by the generative influence of powder and
t- ball; may afford a thoughtlefsgratification
y to minds enamoured of novel and wonder
is ful tranfaftion», But to persons susceptible
1- of ferieus reflections, and who look at th/
1- consequences of afhons it will be a melan
i, choly conlideration.
i- Must we never be permitted .to declare
is truth, because we once thought France con
r- tending for liberty? Is there a Papalfatu
i- tity and infallibility attached to the French
0- | revolution, and may it no longer be exam
t- j ined? People ought not longer to be de
:o i ceived by a name. I can fay mith others,
f- ' that the French fight bravely, atchicve fa
«i med vi&ories, die without fear, and man
se . fully kill and banilh their countrymen by
m hundreds: But for what is all this? FOl
e- the mere names of Liberty and equality!
n- O natnes how much abused! What def
id tru&ion has nrtt-been wrought, through th<
in inlucnce of the enchanting founds—virtut
, converted into vjee and vice into virtue
| Anarchy h::s bien thought government, a; <1
1 mild govrrmrifßt rcmk dcfpotlfm!
j It is a ful.jctf mtii.'j to It ugretffl\ ar,4 .
one that might not to be contemplated by
American* without pain, that any of our •>
countrymrn hare become so faperftriptur*!-
ly philMthspie, as to love any Foreign nation
belter than their own; and to be willing t )
facrificc our well earned peacq and indepen
dence, to the ambitious febemes of tifionary
reformer*.
I thank God tliHt notwithftandlng thea'«
mnft invincible enchantment of modern liber
ty, I ft ill retain a supreme affc&ioit for our
national government, adminittercd as it no\»
and would willingly spend the last drop
of my blood'iu its defence.
AMERICANUS.
PORTLAND, January 27.
Extraft of a letter from captain Thomas
• Waite, of the ship Fame, of this port,
dated, St. Pierre, Martfnieo, Dec. 22d,
1797-
« irr ; Te d here in great distress. The
1 16th of November, in 37, 36, N. we were
■ 11 ruck by a water spout, which upset and
filled the fliip with water, so that we were
obliged to get on her bottom to save our
felvei. The sea carried our bowsprit and all
her masts by the board, and ihtn she right
ed. The sea made a fair breach fore and
aft, and washed every thisg out of her cab
in. Our only place of fafety then was in
the bows, expeding every moment to be
washed from the wreck. The 21 ft Nov.
, we got her pumped out, and for five dava
we were without water or provifious, when
we got at foffit beef and bread that was foa
. ked with fait water. The 27th we were
I generously relieved by capt. Jona. Stone,
in the (hip Phoebe, of Kennebunk.
At Mr. Rickets's Circus,
Corner of Chef 'it :ind Sixth (Iretts,
' On FRIDAY evening, February 16,
Wiil be exhibited ('for the last time) a grand rep
-1 efeatatio-ief the XRMS of the different STATES
•f .AMERICA, aq.d .» cai:fiicr*bl« number of ll
laEaiuations, l'eprdsniiiig a variety of the raoft
remarkable idificss in Kurope, and other fubjefli,
includiog lh« United States, which will
appear illuminated with 600 lamp* ef various co
. lours.
Concerts on the Piano Tarts, by a Child ten
r years old, viz. Martini, Grand Over tare— t : ie
Battle of Pragne.
: The 'whole to conclude with elegant FIRE
I WORKS, composed aud executed by Mr. AM
f BROISR.
£j<" particulars will be given to-morrow.
1 1 he do rs will he opened at 5 o'clock, and
the fire-works will begin .t 6 o'clock. —Box, thres
' quarters of a dollar ; Pit, three-eijjiiths of a dol
, lar.—Days of performance, fuffdav and "ufur.
, day—Tickets to be had at the . iraus, or at O'El
ler&'s Hotel.
I JUSTIfRRIVID, '
la the Skip Siiar, JofVph ivoodman, m after, from
London,
50 crates Queens' Ware, affbrt
-1 cd to fait Wcft-lndia matrket
40 hngfheads Whiting
7500 bvfhcU gcoi House Cnak
5 Also —JUST L4NAID,
j 4ro barrels priane B«t»f
I 50 barrels Pork
750 hhds. Hava«na MolalTet
r Woolen Cloths
Blankets > afiorted in packages
e Hard Ware j
j- Ravens Du»k
Window Glass in boxer, BrLrifc, »f various Gsw
Blacjk Bottles iu hantibersnf 4 grocc *:ach
II A general aflfartorem of CJurriH' Ware, in er* t*»
s Fowling Pieces and Piftnla, in eases
>. Balktt fine Salt, in hoglh tails
FOR SALE ItT
Thos. is "John Kctland.
lt February Ij <tiM
e " FOR SALE, < ~
A quantity of CALF SKI N3, in the rough,
' and feme horse leather. Applv ta
>f ROBE RT S MITH & Co.
No. 58, South Front llre<t.
° Feb. tf- daw
' JUST PUBLISHED,
re AND TO BE SOLD BY
James Humphreys,
jC
c Aufl by Thames Debfun, William Ttunj,
Benjamin Davis, and William Cebbet,
(Price half a dollar, with large allowance t«
thole who take a number to fell again)
ESSAYS
Or. the following
•a INTERESTING SUBJECTS:
n, I. Government. IHI. Taxation.
ir- 11. ReVnluti»ns. V If. The pre
p. 111. 7b- Britij'h Conflitution. fait IVar, r.nd
i;e IV. Kingly Government. the Stagnation
V. RrpT-fentation iij lierofm of Trade and
, n. Librrty and Equality. Credit as ctn
-1 netted <witb it.
by JOHN YOUNG,
j' l Minifler of the Gofptl at Hawick, in Scotland,
'e- The wh#le introduced with a Qiort Ad.irejf
lid to the .irfltriean Header, by theperfona for whom
nc this edition is printed ; with ihe Author's own
on fujiijication for entering into the Field ef Poli
ties : Asn concluded with an earnest Address to
. c * the Public- '
in
ire £3" So great has bsen th« demahd for the abcTe
rs work, both iu Englaad and Scotland, that it has
rapidly gone through several Edirioas, and it i«
t fald, that fifteen thoafand copies were (truck ess
1 at the lalf iutprtfficn of i: in London. A very
on pleafinj aneiftdote iicoßfidently relatod of ltiwor
"O- thy author, so truiy honorable to him, and whiih
c», so plainly fptaks the purity of his intcitions, that
rjc l it would be a'snott finful to omit l: It is tl«i», that
upoi the firft publieaiioH ol theft ElTayt, he hai
' been sent by a number of j>entlaiaea, a v<iy hand
r" some f*ni of aionay, a< a teflimony of their appro
ale batiooof the work, and of their t(leem for h;m ;
th/ ■ this ke declined scteptitj, alleejiog, that what ho
had puMithcd. was fo'tfy with the view to fervc
his cotrtry, aed the p.-aco of society in general.
It is likewise related of Iw'si, that he had been of
ire • fcied a li'ing very far superior to the on* he is
>n- ; MmiUcr of, tut this ail'o he d'clinrd, rcfuling to
tie- fcpant- biwfelf tr«m his own congregation, aa
ich 1 ' * stkt y were dtfireo to retain him, or whi!o
he ceald ba of i'ervioe ao'.oi'g them.
j 1 * "It
~B* TO BE SOLD,
f a ! At No. 36, North Eighth ftrcet,
an. The time of anindented Black Girl.
by SHE has about r» years and 10 months to ferve—
?or walhesard irons well, and is to te disposed of lot
1 want of eraploymeut.
&: J2J± s
the, Hyson and Young Kyfon Tea.
tue ; A few dial's of oclient tonality, for sale, cor j
ie : art of sccoa>l and 1 ice Areata. Dtc »6—cotsPublic S\le of Real Eflates.
On THURSDAY Evenly, the 15th of
• February nrxt, will be erpofed to Public Sal.!,
at the Merchants* Coffee-houf- in Second-ftpcet,
at 6 o'clock in the evening, the following
ESTATES.
No. 1. A two story brick Hou'e, wuh l two
(lory frame building on a lot 20 feet front and
ioc fc. ticieep J alf >, a vacant Lot ef 40 feet iquarc,
with the privilege cf an alley to go thereto, j I his
interest has lately been let for 100 dollars per an
num, and is utuated in Christian-street, between
Front and Second streets, the fec6*d house from
Mr Caleb AihY
No 2. A three (lory brick House, situate at
the north east corner of Chefnut streets, being 14
feet on Seeond-ftroot, and 20 fvet on Chefnut
ftre- t, now in the tenure of Mr. Morange, at the
ycurly rent of 400 dollars, and w deemed one of
tV belt stands for the sale of dry goods in this city.
No. 3. A hancTome well lir.ifhcd three story
brick House, front and 100 feet deep, situ
ate in Fifth-ilreot, between Market and Arch
ftrtets. No. 40. Thisi oufc isbailt and finilhed
in the modern flyle, is in complete repair, with
double cellars under the whole. Theie is a cistern
of rain water in the yard ; and the house is at pre
sort let for 600 dollars per annum with the taxes.
No. 4. A three story brick House, situate in
Plnmb-flreet, between Second and Third street,
being; 20 feet front and 130 feet deep, at present
occupied by Robert Kenny.
No. 5. A thr. c story brick House, on the bank
fide of Front-street, No. 171 North, going thro'
to Water-street, where it is 6vc story. It is 10
feet frout a«d 48 fe.t deep, in complete repair,
and in rented for 600 dollars per annum.
The conditions of Sale are, one quarter cafti,
©ni quarter in 6 months, one quarter in 9 months,
and one quarter in 12 months.
Philadelphia, fcn 12,1798- 3awtis?
Salifiaury EffTte.
THE Subscriber, propafing to contra© his busi
ness, offer* this Eilite for sale, on moderate
terms. On it arc one Blast and three Air
2 ■t'jmplelc Boreing Machine, and a vety good gri-it
Mill, with two pair ol ftinrs ; also a s ood Forge, all
in pertctt repair, as are all the Water Works connect
ed wiih these various branches. Ihe Air Furnaces
were lately built for the purpose «f calling Cannon
for th's Stjte.—Th.re are abou- two thousand acres
of Land, onehilf of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the bed Hay and
Paflure. The Cannon lately mannlitlured fhrre,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
fupcrior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to aHy in the world ; for not one of fixty-nii c guns
lately made, although some of the 34 were bored
into3l pounders, have failed on proving. The fru
ition is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
xnanufa&ure, and a place of aims lving in the ftatc
of Conoe£licut. and only 30 miles from several land •
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water HTuing
from a large na'.uiai pond, very near (he Furnace,
md wlii h may be converted into a variety of other
ufcful purposes. The purchafrr can be accommodat
ed with ail the lloek and utenflls, and have pofTcfTi»n
011 cr before the firfl of June next, and prenar tion
may he made in the me an time for going into BlaJl im
mediately thereafter, for every pan will be delivered
fv, >ood order, with some coal, Ore, Alc. &c. For
term'., apply to Joseph Antli(.nv, in Philade'-
piiii; l)ivid Brooks, E'<). ont of the Rcprefentatives
111 Co. grefs lor this State ; Mr, D. vid Waterman, on
or to the proprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEII.SOM.
Dv t. qiwtf
R tctnih Publjhed,
Ar. J ju!l import?.! lrom England, by William
Giirrrrns, No. 177, JouthSecond street, and
may he had of Morg n J.Ruees,
A Cheap and valuable work, in two closely
printed volume* .in Bvo. (price 3 dollar*)
iiluftratipns of Prophecy :
In which arc elucidated many pred <slions, which
Occur in Ifiiiah, DaL.i l, the writings of the Evan
gclilf.'-, and book of Revelation ; which are tho't j
to loreteli great events, a revolution ,
in France, avora Ie to the interests of mankind, j
the overthrow of the papal pow*.r and of ecclefi- «
aflkal tyranny, the downfall cf civil despotism,
ixelioration of the ilate of the
world : together with
A large n!left ion of Extracts,
Intcrrperfcd the work, and taken front
numerousrotr.metitators, particularly from
Jofej It Mede, Sir Isaac Newton,
Virrinpa, Mr. William L#wth,
l3r. Th. Goodwin, Fleming,
l)r. Hern y More, Eengrflius,
Dr. John Owen, Dautur,
Pr.Creflen r, Whitby,
PcrcrJuricu, 1 owrr.an,
Brenius, Bifiiop Newton, and
Bilhop Chandler, Bishop Hurd.
By JOSEPH LOMAS TOWERS.
Besides various other iriquiries treated of in
this work, and numerous illuflrations of prophecy ;
it contains a considerable number of fads or.ob
frrvttionson the symbolic langu ge of prophecy,
the r.uthen icity, uf'es, and ebfeurity of the apo
calyjfe, and theger.uineni.fs of the Hebrew pro
r.ben ; oa the rapid corruption of ia
the foul th ren' ury j on the difperlion and reflora
ti«n of tne Jews, thehifloryof the falfe Messiahs
who have appeared among them, and the rcafons
in support of the conj-flure that the Afghans are
the dsfccsdants of the ten tribes ; on the right of
rufifia. te to oppreflion; on the irriiptionsof th«
northern nations, and the causes of the decline and
fail of therloman empire; 011 the cufloms of the
Tartars, and the independence of the Arabs ; on
the conquests of those nations, and those of the
Tnrks; an the ufurpition of the Mamalukes, and
t!»a pai hifiory and prefer.t (late of Egypt; on
the citaraiSer andcondmSof Conftantinc, Jultini
n, Clovi«, and Lewis XIV ; on the scarcity of
books in the dark ages, and the caufcs of tile de
cline of literature ; on the rapid rife of the French
monarchy, and the causes of its fall ; on the in
eor.CflencU* in the political characters of bishops
Newton and Hurd ; 011 the peculiarit es of Dr.
Th Burnet's theory of the earth ; on the beneficial
•effc-As whichehriflianity has produced in favor o
I civil liberty, and its tendency topro
«iotetheeHabli(hmint .f equal governments
Independent of the large proportion of original
matter contained in these volumes, those who art
IntfreSed in thefubjed will, it iip efnmed, wish
to peruse or coafultthem, bccaufe the extraAs in
troduced ia them, which are accurately cited, and
marked with inverted commas, are taken from a
greater number of writ r* on the prophecies (a:
f-aft if the roman catholic eommentators be eic
«l«ded) than are easily acceflible to any one indivi
dual even in Eur.pe, or are probably to be found
in any one library in the world They ire tnr
ni(h«J with indexes, and "a copious table of con
tents. J an »»—oaw2w
Imported inthethip Manchester,
Benjamin She-will, Matter,
From Bourdtaux, and torfal. 'oy thefubferiber,
No. 11 Walnu» St eet.
Bonrdeaux Brandy ~)
Irish market claret in cases Entitled to
Medocwine, in <Jo. t Drawback.
Sauteme, do. do. J
Thsmas Murgaircycl.
WHO has for sale.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter cafki
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags »
4000 bufWeli Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf
W. Haybon
Delinaator of Drawirig—-from Londen i
(Where be has lludied fcveral years under oua of
the most eminent matters in that science)
INFO&M3 hi# friendI*, 1 *, that he has re-commenc
ed his private tuition.—Term#, as ufwal, Six
Dollars per month, for attendance three timei a
week. Likewise, all kinds of Orn ament;jfY aint
ing, fruit, flow-rs, &c. taught on the above terms.
W. H. flatters himfelf his terms will be particu
larly advantageous to those that employ him, as
he makes no additional charge if there are two
pupils in one family.
A line dirc&ed to W. H. left at the oftioe of this
Gszettfe, will be immediately attended tp.
January 9. §zw
To Be Sold,
AGREEABLY totfct last will and teftamcnt of
William Hvysuam, dcceafcd, and pofllf
fion given immediately, a valuable property in Arch
ftrert. between Third and Fourth fl.ects, confin
ing of the hotife, No. 107, with the lot on which
it is ere&cd, a ftabl«, and other improvements.—
Thehonfc; is %o feet front, and contains ten good
apartments. The lot is of the fame breadth as the
house and 209 feet deep, with a well of water and
a very capacious walled cistern, both with pump-,
in goop repair. The stable ftaitds on the rear of
the lot and will accommodate four horses and a car
riage. This property enjoys the perpetual privilege
of a a6feet court and an alley, 8 feet wide, extend
ing to Cherry Street. Its central position and the
advantages it poffeflrs wlrh refpeA to free ventila
tion, render? it well worthy the attention of any
person wishing to poiTcfs an eligible property in P • -
ladciphia, k
For further particulars enquire at No B£, Viae
Afreet—of
Robert Heysham, "J)
or >A<slirg Executors.
Bowrs Sayrk, j
January II $
The Subscriber
INFORMS those whom it may iiwercfl or c»n
cern, tlytt ths Judg.s of the Court of Common
Pleas have appointed Afiniay, the tuocnty-fixtb Jay of
February next, t» hear him and his Creditors, at the
Court-h"uf! in this cfty, on the fukjeft of hit peti
tion for ths benefit of the Isfolvcnt Law—and
that their attendance is detfred.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
tbilaidphia, J mi. 16. »o;;6thK
The~iirbfcriber intends to make
application for the renewal of a Certificate of a Share
in the Bank of the United States,jftandingin the name
of A. B. No. 5004, dated July 11, 1 797, the fstne
having been 1011. JOHN GRaHAaI.
Richmond, Dec..l* \Sw
The Subscriber,
4 Informs those to whera hs is indebted, that his
books, which have been kept open for their inspec
tion since December 1796 are balanced to the 3 lil
ult. and will during the present month remaia
open at his in Chefnut Street (or
the.r further inv*lUgaUon r-nd fcrut : ny.
JAMRS GREENLEAF.
Philadelphia, Jan. ift 17? S.
All Persons
Having any demanis the Estate of the
late Captain George lrwiu, are rerjntfted to
bring in their accounts pioperly attested, on er
before the firft day of jartuary next ensuing
and those who are indebted to laid estate are so
Ticited to make immediate payment to
SaKAH IRWIN, Admini(iraJ.rix.
Nov. 29 1797. 4
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands against
tht eflate of Willam Fleewtood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
crafed, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly attested ; and those who are indebted
to ths fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, to
GEO. DOBSON, }.. . ,
No. ij, So. Third-street. J Ad,mm J lr r
January 4. dtf
Surveyor General's Office,
Decemi?r 2, 1797.
ON a release of survey of 433 acres,6B perches
of larul, fnuate in lower Smithficli township
Northampton county, surveyed to William Wills,
per warrant of 2d March, 1786, the Deputy Sur
veyor hath made the following note, viz,
ThHand claimed by heirs of Lewis Gordon and-
George Taylor, not known by what right.—Cer
tified for Daniel Broadhead, F-fq. Surveyor Gene
ral—William Parker.
The firft Monday in March next is appointed for
a hearing of the parties on th-. a ove caveat, or any
others interested or concerned therein, they having
at leall thirty days notice for John Hail, Secretary
of the Land Office.
N. Lufborough.
January 26 §tiFiwtm
Copper for Sheathing,
For Sale, by
SIMON WALKER,
Pine-Jlreet, near Fifth.
January 29 _ diw
Genteel Boarding and Lodging
To be had at a moderate price—inquire a
No. 138, Arch-street.
Jan, 17. diw
To be fold,
AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
story brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. situate on the Irifti tra«sl lane, in the
townlhip of Moyamenfing, about one snile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be imde known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for tafle and
elepunce, (land unrivalled.
Lfecember 1. f dtf
PROPOSAL.
HAVING met with a liberal the
Subscriber is emboldened to issue proposals
for printing by fubfeription, JOURNALS OF
CONGRESS, frp-n their firft meeting in 1775,10
the present time.
This work IhaH be printed with a new type,
made for the purpose ; and en good paper. It
will be delivered at o*ie dollar per volume (octa
vo) in 6 v»'s.—cafli to I e paid on delivery.
It isneedlefs to fay any thing of the merits of
this undertaking—the scarcity of the Journals
throughr.dt the United S ates, i» fufficicnt to jufli
fy th« printer in his hops of meeting with that
fucccfs, which hci« certai" ths enterprize d^ferves.
JOHN PARKER.
Jsn. *?. d 6t
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rite in nubile and talf times
Hour denux Brandy
Tencrijje IVine
Hotajfes
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Ravens Duck and one bogjhead of paiit
brufl.es.
N. Cs* y. Fritter.
No. 95, Sontb Front Street.
Kov. 7. • dim-
PROPOSALS,
FOR POINTING m~ SUBSCkir riON,
A NSW ANtt INT fcKt STING V'OIIK, ENTI TLED,
A TREATISE
ON THE POLICE OF LONDON,
Containing a detail of the various critncs and m-if
demcanors, by which public and private proDar
ty, are, at present, injured and endangered :
And foggefling remedies for their prcvontion. i
1Y A MAGISTRATE,
A&fcig for the counties of Middlesex, Surry, Kent - }
aud Bffex ; for the city and libert/of Wertmin
fler ; and for the liberty of the Tow ex of Lon
don.
?« tbefe ivh& have read this curious an J valuable work,
it wilt need no recommen kition—they ixoiu its solid merit
—but as it has hitherto got into very few bunds in this <
country, it will mt be amiss to ohferite —so great was the
approbation and demand in I. onion, that it paffld through
three hrge eJitio/u iu the• course of twelve months. As a
detail of tbv ingenious varieties of fraud, that endanger
pnperty in London, auJ mvfl other overgrown and opulent
sit it., it cannot fa'si to ajp»rd the re after great entertainment
as well as infiruflion ; hut as the author traces all tbefe
error unities tea few, and in tbemfelves, ineonjiderable csuf
•es, many of which a flu ally exijl in alt the large capitals of
the United States, the bufijiefs is brought ho/ne to our oivh \
doors ; and the work has an increajing claim to our atten- I
five Perufiil.
To ajfift the legijlator and the magifirate in the humane
cjji.e* of preventing crimes, and their oonfequent punifv
ments, was the patriotic deftgn of the author. " Private
offences, he fays, are the fourccf Publicccrime, and the
bejf method of guarding society agaiUjl the Utter is, to make
proper provi'hns, fur checking the fr'ner* — 44 l Thofe men
ere eufly feducedJrom their Itya'ty who are apoflatcs from
virtue."
CONDITIONS.
■This work will be printed in a large o&avo, on
an excellent Engiifh paper—lt will be delivered to
fubferiber*, bound ia boards, sjt the moderate price
of One Dollar aid a half; although the lad London
ediewn, on inferior paper pnd meanly bound, is
now fold at »wo dollars anil a halt. To non-sub
scribers the price will be raised.
Whatever encouragement may be given by sub
scription, it will be committed to thrpr&fs without
delay ; and, barring will be roady for
publication early in April.
£jp* Subscriptions will be thankfully received at
Benjamin ©avies's's book-ftoie, No 68, High
ilreet, and by most of the other booksellers iw the
city ; by George Hill, in Baltimore; and by Sam
uel Campbell, and A. Druir.mond, in New-York.
January 31. aawtA
TROSS & SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, CufTas, and
a quantity of Bengal GOTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, > RUM. .
and j
300 calko RICK, End
A parcel of fl»ip bailing RED CED AR,
Ofl. 27. $
To be Exchanged for
British, German, or India Goods,
!N THE PACKAGE }
A trad of valuable Land
In Lycoming, joining that of the Holland co.
and containing io.coo Acres.
Iriquire of the Printer.
Tin. -j. .
UULUiVIiSIA iiUUbL
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MliS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
ureand refpefl, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(he has received during four in
Philadelphia; and aflures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, Ihe has made a fiiperior arrangement for
•the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended by Mrs.
GroomUridge and matters excelling in fheir
refpe&ive profeffions.
Comer of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797. Jimftf
The fixation h perfei£lly healthy : and made
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lut
of ground adjoining the house.
___ fqr SALE, at
Wm. Young's Bsok Store,
No. 52. Second fireet, the corner of Chefnut ftrect.
REPORT of the Committee of the House of
Representatives of the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
against WILLI BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeachftd of high crimes and »iif
demeanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of
the House of Representatives, authorizing the said
Committee to fit during the recess of Congress, and
inflruaing them " to enquire, and, hy all lawful
(t means, to discover the whole nature and extent
" of the offence whereof the laid William Blount
" (lands impeacho..', and who are the parties and
" affociatei ther«in."
Prwled by order of the House of Representatives
Dccomber jo.
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. lie Walnut-street,
INFORMS thofc who wi(h to recur to the only
means of becoming perfect in the French Lan
guage, that he has just opened his Library, con
fiding of upwards of 1500 Volumes, the b«fl cal
culated to afford either ufcfuS inftru<sHon, or plea
sure. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, nny be seen at every book-feller's
in town.
n. b. All translations from and into the French,
English and Spanish Languages, executed with ac
curacv and dispatch. coim nav. 1,5.
Samuel Pleafants iff Sons,
No, 74, South Second-flreet,
HAVE received a supply of Seal'onable GOODS,
which they are now opening for sale, on
OA 27. —4W
This Day is fublilhed,
BY Mess. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Ric f and the
oiher Booksellers,
One Dollar and twenty-fivecents,
Elegantly printed on Wu+e paper, and list*
freffed,
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with each other, and with
that of *he Unite'd States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of eaeh Constitution, and
cla/fing together their most important provisions,
under the -several heads of administration j with
Notes andObfervations.
By WILLIAM SMITfi,
Of South CaroJina> 1
L L.D. and member of the Congrcfs of the
United States.
Dedicated to" tha People of the United States.
N. B. A few Oopi-s printed on an inferior pa
per, at 3»4thsof a dollar.
Employment for the Poor.
FLAX ,or SPINNING,
To be given out erery fecoud, fourth, and fijtth
day morning, between the hours of 10 and ii—
back of 80. St, south fifth llrect, ahove Sprucc
ftreet. eodjw
James C. Samuel W. Filhcr.
AT THEIR STORE,
N0.&13, corner of Arch and Front ftrect.
BATE FOR SALE,
Cotton and worsted Hosiery in trunks,affored
A few La!«j red, white, and yclloV Fiannel
Di*to futty mm all Handkerchiels *
Ditto Pollicat (ilk ditto
Ditto and Madrafs ditto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taffeties
40CO pieces Nankeens, and
Few chtffts bell Hyson Tea
Alfo —1500 box's bell London Window Glass,
from. Bby 6, to 19 by 14-v-aiad 15 hhds. Glass
Ware assorted, which they will dispose of cheaper
than any in the city.
Nov 18
Imported (via New York) on the
(hip Hero, from Madra« and and for
sale by the fubferiber, at N'.. 61, Cheinnt (Ireet,
between Second Third Streets, the follow
ing articles .
Maha» agonges Charconrra Dorans
Chiutz and Calicoes Dacca worked muilins
Gillis Romaic Bandannoes
Nillas 3c Penfiafoes Chafla Romals
Blue cloth Hair ribbon
Mull Mullhankerchiefs Palenipores
Patna do. Ban ares Opium
LeiTer Cardimum Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox.
novetnber 17 tuth«4W
Valuable Books,
Just received by the Fai* American from
London, and now opening- and felling by
J. Oimsob, No. 41, Cbefnut Street.
CATALOGUES'
Of the newly imported books mavhe had gra
tis. Thei'e added toO's usual llock, form an
extensive and elegant collision of ancient and
modern literature, and comprise books in sun
dry languages and on various fubjefis.
This Day it Published,
By J. Ormrod, (Price 75 cents, haudfomely
bound and lettered, and embtllilhed with a«
elegant frontifpiece and seventy three cuts.)
The Looking Glass for the Mind,
O R,
The Juvenile Frjend ;
Reing a valuable cotleflion of interesting and
mifcellam;ou9 incidents, calculated to exhibit to
young minds the happy efteilj of youthful in
nocence aad filial affedion —ln profc and verse.
Defigncd to improve and amuse the rising gene
ration.
In the Press, and will he speedily publifiied,
Dr. DARWIN'S
Plan of Fdflalc Edutation.
Subscriptions for tfflV inCoi»pjrable work wifl
be thankfully received by the printer. The book
will contain about three hundred pages, will be
printed with a new type on fine paper, and de
livered to fubferibers neatly bound, lettered and
embelUlhed with an elegant frontifpiece, for one
dollar.
January 3. 3 t. j
FOR H.iLE, ar
William Priestman,
119, South Front-flreet, next door to the Ciif
tom-house,
A large assortment of
Gold and silver Watches
A Time Keeper, by Arnold
Some plated Candlesticks
Double barrelled Guns, by Mortimtr, riaker
to the King of England
Ditto, by Parker
Pair du;lling Pistols, by Knubley, Charing
Cross
Reflefling Telescope, by Ribright
Hox of patent Medicines
60 lb, Scotch Thread
Small colledlion of valuable Boolu, ini
Books of Prints
1 30,000 acres of Land in one lot, upon the
Big Sandy, in Mason county, Kentucky, pa
tented by Percival Butler, in 1787.
Also, 14 Lake Erie Lots
Invoices or parcels of Watehes bought.
| January 4. d?t
School Books and Stationary.
W. YOUNG,
No. sc, Second-flreet, corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS now ready for sale, a very large assort
ment of Rnglifb, French, Latin and Greek
SCHOOL BOOKS. Also, finch elementary books
on Science, as are generally read in the academies
and colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY PUBLISHED,
Sheridan's Di&ionary, the sixth edition, in one
large vol. 8 vo price 3 dols.
Ditto, large 13 mo. price 1 dol. 75 tts.
Ditto, common, price I dol. 50 cts.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards. Pasteboards,
(hcathing and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, ani^ other articles, ©f
the be.t quality, used in tfce counting house, or
public office.
Catalogues of a miscellaneous colle&ion of
BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. OA. 24.—^aw6w
Yellow Fever and Pestilential
Difeafes^
THIS DAYIS PUBLISHED, iu one vol.o&avo.
By William Young, BooLfeller,
No. 5 4, Second ftrect, the corner of f hclnut llreet,
( Price, in boards 871 a Cents)
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
A VIE IV
Of the Science of Lt?e ;
On tlit principles eftablilhed in th« elements
of Medicine, of the lafe celebrated
JOHN BROWN, M. D.
With an attempt to correfl some important er
rors of that work, and cases in illustration, chief
ly felefted from the records of their practice, at
the General Hospital atCalcuttaj
Br William Tates y Chas. Mxclean.
To which io fubjuined, a Treatise on theafiion
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion I'or the cure of diseases of indiredl debility.
Andadiffertation onthe sources of Epidfmicand,'
Pestilential diseases; in whichisattemptedtoprove
by a numerous induction of fails, that they ne
ver arise from contagion, bit are alw ays produ
ced by certain states, or certain vicilTitudes of
the atmpfphere, by Charles MacCian, of
Calcutta.
Nov. 21. Sut
Wanted, to Hire,
A I.arge art H convinient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a generous
rem will begiven; to be taken lor a year, or on
more for a longer tertt. Inquireof the Printer.
OA. '7- , ectf
Tin Plates,
FOR SALE BY
SIMON WALKER,
fine, near Filth llreet.
December it. i w
The cargo of the Weft-Indian from
Jamaica,landing atSoutk Street wharf,
136 hhdt. and 30© barrels choice Cofiee
98 Hhd« us prime Svgar
29 Hhds. of Rum.
For Jale By
Peter Blight.
WHO ALSO OEFE&S K. SALE,
300,000 Lbs of Java Coffee
800 Bags do. Sugar
Clove* and mace in boxes
A quantity of Hifpauiola Cocoa
Ked P-rt Wine in pipes and hogflicads
Madeira do. in pipes
February 6 <l2weotra
A Roman Catholic Clergyman,
Who has been a conliderable lime on the
million in the country parts of the Aateof Penn
sylvania, gives this notice to any extensive pro
prietor of hud within the said state, and bordefl
ing on either the Potomack, St/fqwehanna, or
Juniata rivers ; that he is enabled to make a lat
tlemcnt with from fifty to one hundred and fif
ty families, if due encouragement be offered.—
For fu'ther iu/nrmation, apply to the Rev. Leo
nard Neale, Witling's Alley.
Feb. g. »-,t
63* Stop the Runaway.
ABSCONDED from his mafter*# employ, in the
city of Philadelphia, on the sth t>f this
ftant Febi*ary, a Negro Man, named Mentor, a
bfcut 5 feet 6 or 7 inches in height, and of rather
a spare make ; his phifiogncniy i\ vacant bwtlloC
dif igrtfeable ; his age is supposed te be aboet 40.
He had on when he went away, a ihort blueclotk
coat, striped caffimere Test, corduroy breaches,
and yarn flocking* of a blue and white mixture*--
he rook with him a "blue cloth great coat, the cape
of which is edged with yellow binding ; a long
brown cloth coat ; a short blue cloth coat with
buff coloured cape and cuffs ; alf», a pair of .blue
cloth breeches ; the other cloath«s he took with
him cannot be particularly described.
It is supposed, he intends going to the eaftcrti
(hereof Maryland. Whoever will appreheutf,and
secure the said negro in any gaol, so that his maftor
may get him again, or bring hira home,all have
a reward of twenty dollars.
•Apply to the Printer.
February 7. $
~~FOK £ '£/., 1 " *
By JOHN MILLER, jp*. & Cn.
No. 8, Chclnut-ftreet,
One hundred and eighty bales
BENGAL GOODS,
Amongst which are,
C-urrahf Mamoodies
Bella* Sannas
Gukz nahs Tends Coffaes
Guzzi-s Emertics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palampoors -Romal] Handtei chiefs
Among# them are a great proportion of the
manufactures of Patna.
December 1.
Inl'urance Office of the State of
Pennsylvania. |
February j, I^9B.
THE Dlre<s*ors have this day declared a dividend
of t r"£My dollars on each (hare of the stock of the
company, for the lad fix months, which will be
paid to the Stockholders or their legal rcprtfenta
lives after the icih inft.
JAMES S. COX, Prtfidtnt.
February t. dijt
For Sale.
THE Subscriber offers for sale the property note
occupied hy hiirf in the town of Weft*Cheft'cr
and county ofChefter. It confrrtsof a well finifhed
two flory stone h»ufe, 43 feet front, by aboat 40
deep, four rooms on a fleor, with cieled garrets,
and a cellar under the whole—-A very good flone
Stable and Coach house—And a lot of Ground,
tkrfee perches wide, by twenty perches depth.
The houfc Hands 011 the Main street; its fituatioa
is high and very handsome ; the lot extends to a
back flree - , on which the stable and coach houfe
-1 (land. The let is in a high Aate ©f cultivation,,
and there is in the yard a pump of excellent water,,
which has, at no time, bean known t® fail.
The situation ©f the town is high, and remark
ably healthy—the country ground it, fertile and
I beautiful.
The tern* of payment will made to luit'the
purchaser. They, and the price, wilj be futtled,. '
upon application to Mr. Jonathan Sm tu, u«.
149, South'l hird-ftreet, Philadelphia, or to
ROBERT FRAZER.
February 5. mwftf
City Commissioner's Office*
January nth, 1798.
FOR THI INFORMATION or THE CITIZENS.
following arrangement is made by the
said coinraiffi»ners, for clcanSng th«
fireets, &c.'
Diftria No. I.—From the north fide of Vine
ftreet,to the louth fide ot Mulberry street; to
be under the fuperintendance of Nicholas Hicks-.
4. From the south fide of Malbrry street, t»
the south fide of Cbefnut ftrreet, to be under the
of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut street t».
the north fide of Spruce street, to be «nder the
fuperintendance of Jol'eph ClaypooJe.
4 ■ From the north fide of Spruce street, to the
south fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu*
perintendance of Hugh Roberts. rawfiui
Landing this day,
From on boacd t|j« schooner Two Friends, Dan--
iel Crawley, Master,
,Bd ] Jamaica RUM,
FOR SALE BY
George Latimer & Son.
ttonjemher 9. £
60 Dollars Reward.
RAN AWAY fr«m the fubferiber, on the 14th
of December, 1797, a V gro Man, H*>ut 21
years old, by the name of Cato.he it about 5 feet
7or 8 inches high, miiting well proportion;*!; h«
has a very coarse Voice, his fore teeth i'a id very
far apar: ; there were one or two with hnii—X
cannot rightly describe the cloaths he took witfc
him, lor lie took two or three suits ; he had on
when he went away, a pair of kerfcy trowfers, a
half worn drab coloured coat, a half worn wool
hat ; he took with him four very good fliirts I
vxpea he has made for Philadelphia or the Jerfey k .
Whosoever takes up said negro andfecureshim, U
that the owner ma; » t him again, stall have the
above reward, paid by me, JOHN MOORE,
l.lving iu St ill Pond, Kent county, Maryland.
Chocolate and JYluftard,
of a superior quality mafiufadltired,
GINGIiR and l°epper, g/ound ; ftijlled or
pearl 8,-r|ey; Philadelphia P rter, Betr,
Ale ond Cyder ; Taunton ar.d Burton Ale j
London Porter; red. Port and Lisbon Wine,
luitable for exportation or home consumption.
she highefl pi ice given for Muftard-Secd.
Aljo forfait, A quantity of Bocking and
tommcn Baizes, a varierv of colors; a bale of
Fullians, Shawls, &c, by
JOHN HA WORTH,
No. 98, south Fiont-ftreft,
nov. ij. m &;h.t.ij.