•'.. . . .
' . » • A » f ■' » * * " ..f . •" » ,
' tttfc of tiie iHilitttJ Philadelphia, Daily Advertiser.
By John Ward Fen no, N°* ii Cheprat Street.
' ■
froil)E/i 1901.3 PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, OCTOBER a 0,1798. [Volvme XIV,
<rj- The Subscribers to this Ga
zette at Germantown, to whom, |
(owing to recent disastrous events) sn ,
their papers may not be particularly n»
dire&ed, will be furnifhed with them n /
on application at the Poft-Office, in rv ]
Germantown, Whither an extra
number, for tbat purpoie, will con
stantly be f- _.
0- Remote Subscribers for this Ga
zette are requeued to forward pr. post,
tlie arrearages due from them respective
ly. Polimafters who may have receiv
ed fubferiptions are earnestly desired to
remit the fame. At this interring and
difrrefling criiis, attention to this notice
ivilL peculiarly oblige the Editor.
"^^OST^OFFICE^
Philadelphia, September 26.
mHEMaiI Tor No-Cattle, Cantwell bridge,
JL Dock creek, Dover, Fred erica, Milord,
Georgetown and Delaware;
Trop and Snowhill, Maryland, Horn Town,
Accomack court-house, and Northampton court
house, Virginia ; will be ciofed at this office ev
ery Monday, Wedr.cfnay and Friday at halt' part
eight o'clock, A. M, until ift day of April,
ROBERT PATTON.
September 26
Bank of tbe United States.
■ Philadelphia, September 21, ij?2.
The public is hereby informed, that
an Office n! Depofic and Discount will be opened f£
on Monday next, at the house lately occupied by
S«!iiu RicKaedet, near the Market House in
C.rmuntown —where the business of this Infiitu
tioa will be tracfadled during the continuance o.
the malten-int fevernow prevailing in Philadelphia. tc
HENRY KUHL, AJJiJlant Cajhisr.
acrtenil>ir d
Bank of Pennsylvania. w
THE Bank of Pennsylvania is removed to Ger- ft;
jnantown,—where the business will be tranfafted t<
to-morrow, in the Union School House. C<
JONATHAN SMITH, CaOiier. te
September 4 § rr
Wanted to pur chafe. tf
APPROVED bills on Amftcrdam, for which a|
cash wilt be gi .'en at the rate of thirty fe- '
ven cents per Guilder. Apply to the Cashier of
the Bank of the United States.
Septvr-iber 22d, *'9B. c>
b or Sale. k
4 rpHE SvßscitioEß, intending decline the t j
.1 D'lUO BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the (l
wftole Stock of ,]
Drugs and Medicines, Instruments, p
The Clop ft: rlegnnt. and fuf£ci
rntly known for the cxter.live bufincft cone in the j}
wholi-fale an 1 retail line ; the situation equal to al
any in the city, being at the coiner of Walnut and
Second ftrcets. The whole, or any part of the j,
Stock, will be fold, as will bed fuitthe purchaser.
Tha terms may be known, by a-pplying to 1
JAMES MOORE, jun.
Wlo has For Sale, n
Well emulated tor the river trade—
The Peggy, about 3otonsburthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably
flour, of an easy draught «f water,-rigging in
good <>rder.
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
well, and in complete order for t.he lumberbufinefs.
jjj" All perlbns indebted to the late firm ol
GjlJlhiodit '<3 Baldwin, IV. D \Gutdibioail, Guh-
H4»ait 15" Micrt, or the fubferi 1 er, are earoeftly
requirted to make ipeedy payment to
JAMES MOORE, jufl.
august 3 §
Ship Insurance Broker,
THE Sufefcriber, encouraged by the advice
of his friends, orter6 hisTervlce to the pub
lic" as a Ship and Infnrance Broker. H» pro
ptifes to buy and fell vessels and every thing re
lying thereto —affiU m afters of vessels and others
-entering and cltaTing it the Custom Houft,
procuring and (hipping freight, fettling Insur
ance and ill ptiser mersantile accounts, and have
«n neceffary Blanks and Stamps.
Papers in foreign languages translated, and
given in general mercantile matters
—From a knowledge gained by long experience
of every htanch ot business he hopes to be ufe
ful to th fe who p'.eafe to favor him with thair
comtrMnds. SAMUEL EMERY•
Phi'adelphi», aiiguft 24th, 1798. §
City Comnnifioners' Office,
August 30, 1798.
IN'pvrAnnce of an ordinance of the Seledt and
Common Councils, paflTed l he lid day of May
1798,
Proposals in writing will be received by the City .
Comti.UfioSfts for one month from the firft of Sep
tember next, for letting to rent on leases for one
year, to commence the Srtl day of Januaay n«xt,
the following public property of the city—
The wharf xrd landing on Vine ftrect,
A'fo on SafTafras,
Mulberry,
And Higli ftr'ceti.
Chefmit an'i W, loilt flreets, Draw bridge, witl
the and Fifti houOcs Spruce, Pina and Cedar
.
1 he Cellar under the City Hall.
The I avcrn at the middle ferry on Schuylkill
with the lot-, contiguous therero (except so n*uch
fhrr»of flnll he occupied by any huiidings erec
ted for the use »f the Colleclorof the Tolls, or be
ncctllh.-'j' tor the toll gates.)
\ Itateil meeting ot the City Conimiffior.ers wi!f
hel lat the City Hall every Tuef lay morning t
t«.ivo T clok, during the present epidemic, coim
TO BE LET,
An I immediate possession given ;
A Lu re convenient, weil finifhed house. No
V 2 j llii;h nreet, lately occupied bv Doc
tor tVirtar, with C.'jrh Koalf am! Stables
£■.; quire of H'itLUH SHEAFF,
Xo i6S, Jiigh-jlrcet.
>!v ji §
■" "» " « ii———— ■ 1
Puttie Notice is hereby Giver,
rHAT Proposals under sealed covers, vill be
reeeived oa the behalf of the United States
until the twentieth day of October next, ky To- A
nathan Jackfori, Esq. at Bolton, Maffachufais, J.
Tench Francis, Esq. Philadelphia, Pennfylva- t"
nia, and John Swa.an, Esq. at Baltinso;Ma
ryland, fox fupplyiog the following of
cloathing, for the army of the tTnited SfJttu, »
viz. w ' l!
FOR INFANTRY.
8,448 Hats, _ 0 f 1
504 Serjeant Coats m ;d
504 ditto veils ca f c
1,008 pairs do. woollen overalls infci
1,008 ditto do. linen ditto ,w
4,016 ditto lliirts low
164 Musicians coats * pcrj
7,680 Privates-coates ticl
7,044 ditto vest» <"" l
15,888 ditto woollen overall >sli
15,888 ditto linen ditto an< |
31,776 ditto Ihirts wi
33,791 pairs of Sock? ''^ e
33,7*» pairs of Sioes f*
8,448 ltocksof black leather 1 ° 1
8,448 stock clasps
8,448 blanket*. 'J™
; FOR CAVALRY. a«,
6 Musicians coats K ln
»6 Sxrjcant coats 1
»6 ditto veils
104 ditto Ihirts
[ 348 Privates coats
ditto vefls
ihirts ' P^
760 pair of Leather brreckes
760 pair of IWckings l la!
760 pair of boots ] OII
180 Stocks or black leather p o]
380 Stock tht
j. 380 Blankets. Nic
ift. Every article shall be made of materials,
equally good, and in form, or falhion, conform- dei
ably to patterns for the faree, sealed wi:h tbe da]
teal of the War-Office, and which will be de
posited with the several gentlemen, empowered thi
to receive ihe proposals, as above mentioned. Al
2d. Sworn Infpeitois lhall be appointed on by
the part of the United States, to exaini»e and
- determiee upon the several articles aforefaid,
when the fasne (hall be ready for delivery, with
_ full power to reje£ every article, which (hall not £ IH
d equal, in gootlnefs of materials, or to be made 1
conformably to, the falhion of the ftaijdaru pat
tern for the fame ; and no allowance Stall he
made, for any article whi«h (hall be reje£ted by
them, fbr the causes aforefaid.
. The propofaTs muftfpecify the number of
articles, and their kinds, which the party ,is
willing to furni'tf, together with, the loweS
prices for immediate payment in money, awdal
fo the prices, on the longest tarm, or terms of
- credit. wc
One third of each, and every of the several t'°
kinds of the above articles, to be delivered 011 _
IC the fifteenth day of December, one third 011 o
ie the fifteenth day of January, and the remaining
third on the firft day si' Match next; and the
public wiil not be confideredas bound to receive th
i' -any of the aforefaid articlesclaathing, which T1
e (hall not be ready for infpeflion, and delivery, b e
0 at the periods agreed upon. an
'' 4th. The cloathing aforefaid will be received f c;
in the several state:-,, at the places, and in rhe p|
proportions follmting, viz. ©ne third part ef f c ,
the whole at Springfield, MMachuletts, one p]
other third at Philadelphia, (late of Pennfylva- F<
nia, or at Lauiberton, ftatc of New-Jersey, and
1 ok» third at Baltin ore, Maryland.
(j, sth. No contract will be made, for a less
number of each of the aforefaid articles of
„ tloathing, than is requisite fir a company, T
1 FOR THE CAVALRY. '
4 Serjeant Coats f u
4 ditto veils
IR 16 ditto (bins
. 1 Muficiaii Coat "
58 Privata coats
59 ditto vefis
ol «36 ditto Hurts
' u ~ 63 docks '
•r 63 (lock clasps t ;
u6 pair of leather breeches ~
116 pair of n
ia6 pair of boots a
blankets p
FOR THE INFANTRY. b
70 Hats _
4 Serjeant coats
4 ditto veils
8 ditto woollen overalls j
8 ditto linen ditto t
16 ditto shirts
% Musicians coats
64 Private coats
66 ditto velts
13a ditto woolen overalls
134 ditto linen ditto.
te ditto Shirts
389 pair of Socks
180 pair of Shoes,
70 Stocks,
70 Blankets.
JAMES M'HENXY,
nd Secretary of War.
;y War Department, ?
21ft Sept. 1798. J
ity
p Weft-Indian from Madeira. I
ne
■
ffj" Those Gentlemen who have Wines
on board the W'elt-lndian are informed (he is
now difchargisg st Sonth-ftreet Wharf, are fn
licited to hallen down their permits, the VefTel
I being immediately wanted, Peter Blight.
i',. Who wants to Purchase,
icb Barrels of good Prime or Mcfs Beef
100 ditto Pork
ill 7 or 800 ditto fine Flour '
ich 4 or 5000 bu(hels Indian Corn.
c , c ; LANDING
From the West Indian,
v jtj A choice parcel of Phelp's old particular
t Wine in Pipes fit for Immediate use.
m august 15 §tot 1
$5- Wanted—A situation in a Pub
lic or Merchants Office, or to go as Supercargo,
No by a petfon regularly broiiiht up to the Mer- ,
oc- cantile and Insurance business iaLondon, he has
lately bem a voyage from hence to the Weft-In
'1;-s as Supercargo, can be well 1" commended,
—P'eafe to enquire at the Printer's.
J atig-sft 11
HAPPY DISCO TERT.
A certain C*:re for that alarming and dreadfu' Tj if order
ihe Yeilovv Fever, A
As ".veil as any other dingerous pu'rid fever,fever and
ague, and other inveterate and complicated Jifeafes, ly Ve ' :
toeufeofihe ' an <*
POUDRE UNIQUE,
t "\T7"ELI-known and puentedinEjglacd,Franc*, oJ]c
, \V- Holand, and all the capital cities in Europe, .
where the mod aftonifliing cures have beer. effc&- j
ed on persons judged incurable by all phyficiant.
la a Treatise printed in London, on the proper i *s
of this powder, by T. Seymour, M. D late Che- j an j
mist, to his Majefly, there arc slated two hundred c J m
cases, where this molt valuable rcmedv has proved • j
infallible, in all link of fever s t plcurify, bloody flux, J f r^n
inverse rheurnatfms, fciatica y apoplexy, pay alyfte, yel- j c
low jaundice, ringworm, worms in children and in grown „]j- Q
persons, white*, chronical lead and flomach abbes, htpa• j
tick and nephretical or flone cholic, the tings evil, fcuri*j .
and the mo) 1 inveterate and complicated venereal disease. h
ielikewifc the beil prepararive for fh« fnali pox j m jj
andmeafles; ol the greatest utility fer young as j Jj rr
well as for eltjcr ladies at the critical epoch of their , • ■j
life. The efficacy of this powder in ltverat of the J, it j
above diseases has been <tilcovcrcd by chance, and j yn
so it has been in the yellow fever lafl year, by Mr. {ree
Mahy, who cured several by adniinifteriiig onty
two of the said- powders, and loft not a fmgle pa
tient which he uadertook to cure, as proved and r) i j
attetted by the kere annexed certificates, whose ori
may be seen at Andrew Hadfegs umbrella flops •
131, corner of Cijefnut and Fourthflreets, the on- * ~
Jy place where thcTe powder# are to be had, with '
proper dircdious lor the use of them.—Price two . 7
Mian. ™
The ufefulnefs and certainty of this remedy be- j, OI
injr so great for so many dangerous disorders, any
person wifhingto be provided with those powdti»s, c^jj
will pi cafe to apply very foqn, as the quantity at . t
hand is rot very large, andi: is doubtful it for a •
lon-* time, or it ever any other geiuine will be im
ported, the f cret remaining only in the hands of j- ro
the inventor, in Europe, and never being commu
nicatod to, or discovered by any other person.
5 > N. D In th* yellow and putrid fevers, this pow
t- Jer niufi: betaken thu iecond, or at lsaft the third W
e day. rcr
?- We the fuhferibers, durirg the late Gcknefs in
d this city, having taken the yellow fever, applied to /
A/Ir. Mahy for his medical aili (lance, we do here- 'J 1
11 by certify, that by a certain powder, called the 1
d Pudre Unique, we wore jjerfe&ly recovered from
the said fatal flckrtefs, ana from an experience of
the happy tfiVAs of the above most valiable medi-
>t cine, conlider it our duty to make the fame klftwn,
j c fpr the benefit of our fellow citizens.
Margaret Jones, ' T «
. Mylus O'Connor, \
ie Jefit Turner, .
'y Ckriften Rebecca Dow,
Catherin Apple, - T
" Ann Grover,
** William Bills, m '
ft David Williams, carpenter, * ,
'* William T Donaldfon, mafUmafter. W
>f Mr. Mahy's well known Plaifter, for all kind of re
wounds and fores, to be had at the above direc
al tion, No. 131, Chefnut ftrset.
n aufu* 8 aawtf W
* _ 1 1 t ar
" OiiyiißAL vtry elegant flituatioss for Sum'
S O mer Retreats, three and a half miles from
le the Court House, and on the Frankford Road ;
the lots will be made tofuit the purchaferi.—
TheCefitUiit'rons are cemiidered in point of health
y> beauty and elegance, equal to any nejrthe City, _
and the rjiad known to be f*re and good at all
■d seasons ol the year. The title indisputable—A _
le . p'sn ot the grounds is in the hands of the fub
°l Icriber, who will make known the terms on ap- j- J
1,4 plication to him at his office No. 124 South "
a- Foufth Street. ,
1(3 ABkAHAM SHOEMAKER. U
mav i- Jtawtf
of John Haines isf Wrn. Jones,
\'/. f T)BG leave to inform and the public, F
!> that they hkve commenced a Co partnerihip
in tht SADDLING BUSINESS, which will in
future be carried on under the firm oft'
HAINES faf JONES,
n Market Hreet, N«. 132, one dQor above the
dorner of Fourth,—where they prefimre (at least
to hope) that their attention to, and knotvWge in
thwir determination to serve on the heft
terms, an*l their Knowx attachment as Native A
m'cricans to the Govern and C«nflitution of
their Country, will entitle them to the encourage
ment of a generous public. Although they c.in
not boast of having acquired their experience in
any part of Europe, yet they take the liberty of
pledging themfelve<*, that their uianufa&ure ftial
be inferior to none in this city,
june 26. tuthstf
UX i3J.hr. :=.
100 Barrels ) of B ef of best quality, put
50 half Barrels ) up with < are for long voyagx'S.
too Barrels of Conneftiaut Pork.
50 'Barrels of Connedicut Tongues.
WINE Si
35 Pipes of Madeira Wine
30 Pipes of Port \
30 half, calks of Sherry
30 Casks of L'rfijon
300 Cases of French Claret, of excellent
quality.
800 Barrels of Scraped FLOUR* '
100 Barrels of Condemned, and ,
2® Boxes of best Durham Mnflard.
For Sale by
' T John Skyrin,
Landenbsrger's IVharf.
may 4 eedtf
James C. iff SatnL.W. Fijher,
No; 13 Arch-Street,
Have Jor Sale
nes 200 Calks befl refined Salt I'etre <
e " Bed London Window Glass from loby S to
f«- 12 by 10
•flel Ditto Glass Ware in Calks alTorted csnfifling ,
'• of pint and half-pint Tumblers, Wine i
Gla(Tc3, Goblets, &£. (
ALSO,
A few Palesof Red, White and Yellow Flan
nels, Baizes and KendallCottonp.
June 17 ,^wt('
CASTOR OIL
Is much wanted ; Those who have
it to dispose of will find a ready sale i
* by applying to any of the Apotheca- J
~~~ ries.
ID-
"s°> A Quarterly Meeting of the
'has Carpenter's Company wil' be held at'their
Hall on Monday evening next at 6 o'clock. !
jedj JOSEPH WORRELL,
JVar 'en. i
oftober il.
1 I
F O R 3 A L E t
salis n u r r.
ALAKGE and well improved farm, contain
upwards ol twenty-five hundred acres of le
vel fertile land, remarkably well adapted to £ r af»,
and every kind of gra:n; there are i <- '.ua
dred acres ol Timothy meadow cn it, pirb'
c»ceiird, iiwn winch, J tave cut this y«.Ajf b etween
one hundred and two hund|ed ton? ot
hay; upwards of three hundred acres more of this ;nf
land may l.e converted into meadow, equal to that
already made, the greater part of which may he _
watered at a small expence. There are on this
land, a commodious two story dwelling-house,
completely finilhed, with and apalT*ge,
ciglit of the rooms h..ve fire places; U portico in
front, fifty feet in length, and eight wide; a large
paled garden, a well ot excellent water in the yard)
alio a barn feventv-two feet by twenty-fix, wi h C
lheds the and fuiTicient. io hold fixtj;
lieap of black cattle, a well conftruded ilable, ful- j p
ficient to hold twenty horses; with every oth*r t
building that may be convergent or ufeful for a ' r
family; upwards of three hundred 2pplc tree# !
(jult begintiing to bear) ol chosen grafted fruit, 1 poir
with a number of cherry, pear, quince, and dame- | neai
lon upwards ot two thousand bearing peach 1 ot t!
trees. About one iourthof the land is cleared, and Cit]
under good fence ; tha.paf.ure lands are well taken, cou:
with red clover and other valuable g.afs. 'i he re- i j
r.iainder is in wooJs and generally well Timbered. | g,o
The whole is well watered, laving several constant j on t
springs; and two llreams running through dilTer- : a rd«
pui ts thereof, on one of them is a'fmall coun- )
try grift mill, and af.»w mill. The purchaier can ; ma<
hare iniimediatw polTciiion, and may be accommo- ,
dated with twenty valuable field negroes, with
horses, black cattle, flu:ep, hwgs, and every necef- j
fary farming utewfil. Salifbun'is in ex-j
cellent neighbourhood, and rtmarkabie healthy, <
i 9 twenty-fix mde# by in(,afurement fqqm Ak*n
dria, abeut twenty m l.s.from Potomack at
the Little Faih, and not more thai! twecty%re
from the city of Walhinpt »n, and or the .*<fad -v
Iroaa Alexandria to Winchcfter. A imal! part ol j j[V
the purchase monev, will be required in hand; one, j ne j
tw©, and three years credit will be given for the or
remainder. .. v j
Mr. Zaccheus Collins of Philadelphia will give C(
any gentlemen who npply to him an account of the
situation of thi* plaa#. For further particulars ap-
ply l* the fubferiber on the premises. Sit
SAMUEL LOVE.
Virginia, Fairfax county
September 24, 1-798. '* law.
f " ADVERTISEMENT. *
•
James Cumming 15" Co,, late ol in
YV the city of Philadelphia, msrtharits, have be
afligued ovor all their effeiSls, real, perfoniil and to
mixed, to the lubfcribtrs, for the benefit ot all re
their creditors, who ftiall fuWcribe the said aflign w
ment within fix months from the date hereof. pi
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, to allperfons ja
who are indebted to the said estate, that they are th
. required to make immediate payment of their rcf
pe&ive accounts, to the Aflignees, at their office!
No. 61, Dock street, in failure whereof a&iom ~
will be infiituted for the recovery of such debts as _
are not discharged accordingly.
John Travis, r
\ J ohn L Assignees "f
' James Taylor, \
Cornelius Comrgys J 1
august 18 niwftiD °'
' TO BE SOLD, "
L r THHE time of an indented Dutch Servant BOY
1. who has ten years to serve. He has had the "
small pox and 2 meafles 4 iW'.3&ive, hearty.and strong. 1N
I and fit for house v/crx-in town or country. Fcr 0
further information, the printer. _
august 4 ±
~FOR SALEJk 1
:, For Sale,at the. StbfeS of the Sub- t
P {bribers, on Walnut dreet Wharf, ; a
B 195 caf.ts of n:iils assorted **, ! ?
10 bales ef fail cai'.vafs-, from No. x tf> 8 I
53 casks yell 'w ochre I
e i j tierces hurtled sorter, 6to 14 doz each ~,
ft London tiptifar ) Made - ir 'J V /ine 3
II InfJia market ) j,
Teneriffe do. in hog(lieatl»in<l pip a
* Old Port do. in hlids, a
Empty Clirct bottles " fl
6 cases of Ginghar.is, Dimities, fijuflineta &c. t i
afTorted for the Well-India mirjtet r
4, 10, and 9 inch caWesand rtr coils of cordage 0
'l Writing fiatii", ink Osnds.add presses t
\ lo'purchcens Jamaica rum i]
I; bale fcaming twirre
_ 160 bundle* iheathing paper
Nicklin IsT Griffith.
April 7 tuth&f.tf
bengal Goods,
'CONSISTING Ot"
BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS,
Chintz C'olTas Maharazgungy
Chintz Guzzinas Tnokercys
F.liabad Baftas Wrought Muslins
1 ,ong Drawers
Coarse Sugars in bags, fit for the European markets.
ALSO,
Carolina ImtijiJ
Coffee in hog.he ads ,
A few pipes of yery old and very choice Madeira
WINK
F6r Sale, en reafonible terms, by
John Craig,
No. i», Dock-tlreet.
July 14 mwstf
NOTICE.
Bank of North America,
/Sugujl 28th, 1798.
ryHOSE Perfers who h,.ve No'.esoi Bills to'pay
10 X at this Bank are informed.
That regular Notices will be put under a fealea
ilg (over directed to the refpeoliv» payer and lodged
ne }n the Poft-Ofncc every Monday untH the retmrn
Of theciiizens.
RICHARD W'ELLSi Cajt.i* ■. v
11- aug. 29 . drt
SOUTHWARK.
oSober 8, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY
GIVEN, Commifiloners cf
le the Diltrift of Scilthwark have removed
a . their Hall to the usual place, commonly
known by the name of James Lille's School.
House, iu consequence #f the rapid decline
of the Epidemic ,Fever, especially in the
\ e vicinity thereof.
cir * Byordtr of the Board of Comm'tjfioner
k - I . Wm. LINNARD, President.
Attest,
j William Penrose, Clerk,pro Urn.
' OQobcr 9
1> " 1
This Day is Published,
AKD FOR SALE BY J. F K N NO, 1 i g,C H E S N U T-S"» R E KT
. AM ADDRESS
7o the People of Maryland,
ON the origin, pr/>grefs and prefcut tlste of
Frsacfa aj;tjrr&oo, \»itii a (ketch r>f the infamous
atto ipts t» (It-grade theOaiernaie9t ofThc United
*'«<t,ar.r| feme reßS&isus on tfie Iftte {trocecdan
in Chiefs ijfcrrtf en Ac lift of April in the pre
ftnfyfe.tr, bf a' Member of the House of Reprefen-
Wtiv "- S june 11
~To be Sold, at Pubuc Sale,
On th« Prcmifes,
, On Tttefday the 2sd da) of 08-jbrr, 1798, at
i kolf pajljhuo o'clock, in Ihe afternoon,
Several very elepant Situations for
SUMMER RETREATS,
Thro? an 1 an half%iii!cs from the Court hiuTe near ..
I Ftanklord ro»d, being part of the fubferibm's 'V
j ... 'ekate.
i These situations arc considered in '
point ofheaith, beauty and elegance, eqnal to any
| ne»ir the city ; commanding a very extenfivc view
l of the Delaware, the (hipping in the harbour, the
City, l4jrrowg?.ie,Krankford, arid fcveral elegant
country feat*.
I Ar.y person desirous of viewing the
i grounds,.«ill please apply to HENRY HAIN£S
on the ptenvf.-k, or to the jubfcriber, at Mr. Rich
; arJet's crnee house, Germantswn.
The term-;, which will be eafyj will bs
' made known at the time of fttle.
|; Should the weather prove bad on the a~
bnvr mentioned day, the sale will take glacis on the
j next lair day, at the fimehour.
W. MACFHERSON.
I oflober 9.
I Pennfyivania Hospital,
] 9 mo. 1, I7jg.
f i XT ° P Jrfo " with 3 1 'nf'-'Aious difeaft, can be
j 1 \ aomitted into thfs house; it is therefore ear
• 1 neftly recommended t-> the citizens, not to lend
e or ! ring any such patient to the gate, who is ill
with the prevailing fever. Several jurfoa»having
beer, (eat here impi oporly, is the reason of giving
c this caution,
" s"L°g r Managers,} FRANCIS HIOOI.VS, Stev'J.
Ten. Dollars Reward.
DESERTED from t!«e Guard House in New-
Caltlf, this mori.ing, Stbph*n Bowden, a
private Marine, belonging to the Frigate United
States He is akout 36 years of age, five feet ten
'1 inches high, fair compjsxion, light hair, blue eyes,
e born in England, and iy trade a Brickl: yer. Prior
d to the sth of June, the date Of his enlitlfcsnt, he
II resided in Philadelphia, where it is probable he
1 will endeavour to go. Any person who will ap
prehend the said defertcr, and fe ure him in any
is jail within the United States, fiiall be entitled to
rs the above, reward.
F. WHARTON, Capt. Marines,
e, NewCastle, OA. 8.
* TEN DOLLARS REWARD. *
DESERTED from my Detachment at Borden
town this day, a Marine, by natne George
Rodman, a Native of Ireiat-d about 15 years of age
1 feet_tight or nine inches high, dark compac
tion,black hair tied; black fyes well mads and
quarrel for»c, when -n liijiior is ford of Cnging—had
on a blue feam.-n's jackett light pantaloons, cot
ton Stockings, round Hat, and had tender his Pan
taloons a pair of Nankeen Breeches.
Y Whoever apprehends and feids the said Dcfer
hc t-r to the Marine Camp, (hall receive the above
Reward.
or oaober it, ~.8? -^ KN , RY A WILLIAMS,
' 3 Lt. \3arines
PROCLAMATION.
BY virtue of a precept from John D. Coie,
Bfquire. president of the Cfcurt .ofOyer and
j 1 ■ rm;ner and-general goal delivery for the trial of
all capital sn.l zither offences in the county of
Bucks; aid Hbnuv Wtnkoop and Francis
j Mukrav, judges of the fame court—A court of
Oyer and Terminer, and general goal delivery,
will be held at Newtown, tn _the said county of
Bucks, or. Monday the sth clay of frjevembcr next.
All those vho will praf'ecute agaiuft the prisoners
in the goa! of faii ujunty, are mqaired to be then
and there toprofecute againS thein as (tall be juft—
aiiil aTI the juulcesof the peace, coroners and cor.-
Oabh'i, within the said county, ire required u> be
:c> ther. and'there, in their proper persons, with their
rolls, inquilitions and examinations and
g* pther their remembrances, t« do those -hings which
to their oSces belong, 1:1 that hehal! to be
done, &c. DANIEL PLUMAS, .Tieriff.
Oit.4, 1798. 3taw
Flour for sale
.• By the Subjlriirrs,
Deliverable it any of the ports on the Dela
ware—who have also on hand at their (lores, *
quiwtity of Bar Ifon, Pork and Corn—Letters by
tha poll will be attended to.
Levi HoUingiworth & Son.
august tB. dtf
WILLIAM M'LAWb,
ets SAD'LP.R & HARNESS MAKER,
HAS Removed te the Corner of Chefnut
and Twalfth-ftreets, or> the Commons,
where he will receive and execute the orders of
ira hisjfriends ind wholefile" cuflomers, with ufaal
att«ntioji & expedition daring the prevalence of
the present Epidei'.ic, where it has m>t made its
appearance this feafon> nor during any of the
r )'"« ;
a'«?nfl is J
~ FOR sale; ■
The Cargo of the Schr. Sincerity
Benjamin Moriteith Mailer, from Laguira,
CONJISTIKC o»
94? Feaegas of Cocoa
lea 4003 Jb. of flera Indigo
g< j iio Bales of Cotton
, 4 Packages of Goaf. Skins
Bj Wilting/ £3" Francis.
.. No. Eleveoth-flrect,
. jlilv a. dtf
Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
B y Searfaukers and Carradarries,
r »f the newest most a|»prov€dpatterns,entit l \
to the drawback, just received,
AN® TOR SALR BY
nly Alex. J. Miller 5S* C».
jol. No. 04, South Front flrrer..
ine may 18. <•
the FOR SALE, by
John Miller, Jun.
NO. 8, CMESKUT STREET,
100 hogsheads RUM,
Of high proof and fiac flavour
t i al y'»
/Relief of the Poor.
—Hm
THE undermentioned persons are ap
pointed by concurrent resolutions of the
hoard:; of ro.v of the Marine and City 1
Hospital and guardians of the poorfot the {
piirpnfe of relieving such of their fellow ci- I
tizt:;s *>hofe fituatidns render it impreper I
fur them to remove to the encampments.
John Aehr, Peter Barker,
Ptler Mierclc*, John Hutchinfon,
Alexander Steel, Willinnt Steven/bn,
Thomas AUibnni, John fames,
Edward Garri/uet, Thomas Saver ft >
Stephen Mixfield, Rbea King,
Ncthan A Smith, Paschal HolßrgPworth I
Daniel Doughty, John Teas s
By order (f the board of Mann\ers of I
fie Marine and City Hospital.
Wm. JONES, PrefidenU I
Attejl,
Timothy Paxfon, Clerk.
By order of the Board of Guardians »f ]
th:po r.
PETER MIERCKEN, Prejdent. I
THE committee appointed by the above J
refolutinri f»r the relief, of such perfoM, I
f* vsh'ofe situations rchder it impia&icable to 1
' remove their families to the tents, being rea j
<Ty ta enter upon the important duties of]
ti.eir tppolrtmetit; inform the public that j
they will meet on the 2d, 4th and 6th days j
of each week, from 3 to 6 o'clock, at the I
Senate Chamber in the State house, wbeYc j
the indigent thr above clafw will be re- I
lieved, upon producing certificate from ore I j
or more rrfpe&able inhabitants who conti ] v
nue to refi !« in the city or suburbs, that | h
their families are in such a situation as to j 1
render it improper to remove them to the j *
tents. * j £
The committee b>)ng sensible that no en- j 4
dcavours will be lacking in the committees 1 a'
who fupenntend the encampments, to make I
the temporary residence of the poor as in-1
habitants who removed to them ai comfortk- j
ble a3 poffifele ; and btlieving that the re-1 ~"
moval cf tbera from the city, may, under I
Pro vidence, be the means bf flopping the j
pievai'ing disorder ; are deHious as much as I
poflihle. to encourage it ; and thcraore mod I
earrmlly requelt fellow citizens to re- j
commend none to them, but such families, j
v. ho from sickness or other important con- 5/
fidcra'.ions, are impioper objefts to receive I
the publx benevolence at the encampments, bo
Ed. GARRIGUES, Prudent. 1V-
Peter Barker, Secretary. J c "
Philadelphia, 9th mi, igth, 98. J
New Encampment. I H«
THE Committee who fup:rintend ,the I
encampment, at Maker's Place near the Mil! j foc
Pond, on the Geimantowr. road, about two j j
miles from the city, refpe£tfnlly inform their j 1 j,
country friends that they stand in ueed of an hai
immediate supply of vegetables and straw, inti
fcr the use of those diftrefl'id citizens who j w h
are flying from the present calamity. The " '
committee flatter themfslves that the fame I lho
liberality will be found in t\e farmer, and o- J
thers, to supply this encampment, as has I
bee* to that on the Commons near Schuyl— j
kill, both having the fame landable obje& I J
in view. j |>ro
John lnsleep T JW 2
Jon, Robefsn v Committee. J tlcc .
Isaac IV. Morris \ I
Camp, Mailer's Place, j p ea
September 10, '9B. | p r ic
f foB,
ffj* THE committee are happy in fiavfng f
it in their power to inform those citizens f ,
who are not in a situation to provide for I 0 j? 8 t
thcmfelves, and ate defirons to remove from I
the city or liberties, that they are now pre- j forls
pared to receive frotn 6 to 700 perfont at j vend
the encampment on Mafter'a Place, in the I Cha]
North"i n liberties where such- persons will I
b' furrifntd with comfortable apartments I w 'i' <
ai! neceflary provisions during the present In/
calamity. |
' I au
TENTS.
THE committee of the guardians of the I
poor, appointed for ♦he fuperintendance of j
the tents on Schuylkill, acknowledge with I i n tbs
gratitude and fincete fatisfadKon, the gene- I lumb
reus liberality of donations they kave expe- I " n ' let
rienced. It is with deference to public o- j
pinion, and public compafiion, that they in- I teni :
form their feeling fellow citizens, that they I u I4
have near ftventy pregnant women, who I creso
will, ere they leave the encampment. Hand in j K e * ar
not only need, but neeellity ot clnathing for I
thtir infants To mothers, whose hearts I Ihuf^
•an beat with foudnefs to their offspring— I bavin;
to those amiable young ladies, whose best I which
and benevolent affections are extended to "•' xc ' uc
the smiling babe—to fathers who have it in J ce
their power, this requeft is ad- j won |j
drefled. I eights
By order of the committee, j For
PETER MIERCKEN, Chairman.
Oftober 3. 1798. more -
Canal Lottery, No. 11. t^u!
Considerably more than Half Drawn. 0
" an s
Draws twice a Iveelt, every Monday (Sf Tuesday meat
X ICREI'S For Sale, Seven Dollars each, at unfunc
WILLIAM BLACKBURN'S Lottery books
and Brokers office, IVo. 64 South Second-street,
where cheek b- icks ire kept for examination end relpeil
regiflering in ihis, City of Wa&jngton No. 2. a f tcr
and Paterfon Lf.tteiies and information where year, 1
Tickets may be had in mod of the Lotteiiei au
thorised by law ia 'any of the States of the t | )e bo<
Wnion. Loans
Stat* 01 thi Whiu, Ur'ited
One prize of 10,000 dollars ro,oco
Five 4.t>oe ao,ooo „:n fr '
Two a,coo 4,00= f„, h=
Nine j,oco 9,000 , ( i "
• Nineteen joo 9,50s
Forty-four 230 8,800 of =
With a full proportion of the ont hundred r ] )rt
•od of the fifty dollarprizrs —the price of tick- Q c j n;c
«ts willfoon rife, particulvly on account of the t j' |e f
five 4,000 dollar prizes that remain in the whetl .
astil the Isft day of drawir.p. u '
jfjT Nore, the buGnels of a Broker duly at
tended-to in all its krancbes at the above office
»ay 14 ' wSutf
//'
Bank of Penrifyfoama,
September 3d, 1798.
ire an AV H " MKAStl,eHou! *"prefent occ-.pied
f 1 j by the Bank of IVnnfylvania wasenter-
J _V e 1 fd on ,he n,ght of the firft inaani, by some vil
iq City 1 Uins. who robbed the inflituti<. n of sundry
sot the j 3a:ik Notes, amongst which were the follow
llow ci- I in, < P° a notfof thi- Bank of Nsw-York, viz.
lpreper N<> >aoi ' cl, "" d of August, i 7 98, Dells
nts. .ITuedm favor „f Seab.ing&
I Van w vck, for 396 22
I No io»3,(Jated 45th of Angufl, 1798,
I ifTued in favor of Montgom- .
son, j ery and »Vewbold for USO
INo 1006, »7th do. do. do. 2000
f t t I *OOS, do. do. do. / do. aooo
do. do. do. do. jOoo
r/TninwA I I=0 9» do. do. do. do. aooo
'/■ worth \ loro> Jgth do _ do> do _ 3000
t /-I do. do. do, do. looe
gen of I ion, 3eth do; do. do. 1500
•oij, do. do. do. do. 1000
ident. I r r ° pofl notes of the Bank of Penn-
I a 3d Jaly X 797, iflTued in favor
I ot George Hughes, for one thonfand dollars
•• I * nd f u "dry post notes of said Bank, dt
-111 V J u 'y> '797, iff«ed in favor of Geo. ,
I 11 ugh en, for five hundred dollars each >nl in
dent. I dorfed by him. The public are hereby eaaticn- '
Jed against receiving the said notes, and a re- '
above 1 THV THOUSAND DOLL .4KS ,s (
rrfons, I r r k s * for th " discovery and c»nviaion 1
.M- tn I j / „. m * who perpetrated or are concern 1
l ed , m t,le k' d robbery, in addition to the reward r
rta r J peered by the Governor of the Commonwealth ,
IC3 of j in hn Proclamation of this day.
c that ] By order of the Board, 1
1 days I JONATHAN SMITH, cashier.
if tKp f " —• — 11
tvheVc ( T EN DOLLARS REWAI>D.
' e re * I ■'JER ,£0 I : .ft hight, a second time, from 8
n ore IZT MHrine Ca, "P' Dav ' ,d Lu P er < a fife-.
I he went away, .plain Lluejackttand b
J veft,light blu 'iveralis, aiound hat.which had betn n
that J ha»«d *it'n yellow, and which he had ripped off
as to j dtfertion, and a pair of new shoes. he is !'
O the I t . < - jr f t ' l,t ' r by trailed has grey eyes, far.dy hair
j M ow comple-ston and a nitch in his upper lip.
J His back is ftlll fore from a flogging he got a few ir
o en- I 4 ays He may bs discovered by his fileine, I,
lttees J as he plays extremely wclL
make w • W. BURROWS Major Com. of the U1
s in- I _. , Marine Corps. h;
'orti- Qa " W 17 ■ cc
ANOTHER STRONG PROOF h
the ° f tlle * reat lml ul >l*'-»lleled efficay of Ith
ch as j CHURCH\ CO&GH DROPS, | ai:
mofl Ik tbe Cure of j
0 re- j Coughs, Colds, Asthmas Consumptions, 1 111
lilies. New-Tor-A, July 16, >798. co
con- Isir, To Da. CnuacH,
oeive i For upwards of Twelve Tears, I have la I h "
ents. bored un d tr a severe Coogh, fhortrrefiof breath a "
it. 1 V l,l, ng of nutter from my lu«g» and often of I tlc
J clotted olaod, till at length I was f# reduced as I
jto be unable te walk across tiry ism, and ow- Ei
I ln ? to . t ' C v ' ' cnce ot " cough aid the short- j thi
I ntfs of breatk could get no reft diy or night.— I th<
I Hearing of yoar excelled medicin#, ,the Cou»h I m ;
1 ,the Drops, I procuned a bottle ; I took a dose as I
foot > »» I got it, from which I found iaftantaae- WC
two ,°u T r U i f ' cintmumg it for three days, P r '
heir Ir l re * orfd t0 perfeifl health. As ce '
I I beliuve you to have been the mllrument in the I
" an hanfl » of Providence, of saving my life, I must [ fan
aw, j mtreat you to publish thi6 for the benefit of any | f or
who who may be in my situation, as lam confident I „ vr
The I* l# °ne of the best medicines in the world for [ 1
ame I 'bole complaints. Inar
do- I ISir > J u,r Braf'f"tservant,'8 raf 'f"tservant,'
hsg I NICHOLAS STAGG, I the
~1 I Little Robigsm-Strcet. Ia r<
> yl - CHURCH'S COUGH DIIOPS, the
jeer I Are prepared and fold by thelnvenVor and fble ITh
proprietor, Dr CHURCH, at his Dispensary, .
Wafhington-ftrett, New-York, aad at his of- I
tee. *' South Third-street, Philadelphia, I l ? :
I and iold by appointment at Mr Weedman's ug I t" 3l
1 VVilliato-ftreet, and Stilwell & Deforeft, i6j I cfta
I cw "Y©tk. Maflcius, Albaoy> I und
llncc, Baltimore, Thomas, Ale*aHdria> Wil- | I
I ion, Wilmington, &c. &c. I
mg OBSERVE, I af> P
?ns f , A * * counterfeit preparation of this medicine L.,£
for r 8 en " ,d ' J * rioufl >' circulated througk some |.l '
f the principal cities in the United States, per- I "
ftns are req.ieftei to purchase them of such per- f
►re- | sons only as have Dr Church's appointment for
at 1 vending the fame, -lowers, k'ouehkeepfie— I 1 '
-he [ Chappel, Head" of Elk—Sond and Co. New- i '
rill [ castle Heinitfh, Lancafter—Blauvelt, Brunf- '
nts I Wl i k J ) Gordon, Trenton, &c. t *
■nt "* Patients letters (Post.paid J addrefTed to
- nt Dr Church, New.York, d*!y attended to. d '^
auguAio aaw3w |g;
I ______ I g oye]
he FOREIGNERS P arlii
of \/T A , Y J. b y v 'ftue of an ait paiTed at November 1.!,°
■l I fcffion , 79 I < h »ld by deed, or by will, UnJ, |
It 1 | , n that part of Maryland called the diftrift of Co- I , . J
ie-1 lumbia ; and the fame may be transmitted to, and I ?
>t- 1 '"herited by their heirs, &e. as if they were citi- I eal
0 . I zfc «»- | pwee
n<> J Within the diftri& of Colambia, upon the eaf- j
I ter " branch 01 Potomack. oppofiie fquarcs No. I ,ldd ' f '
7I 11 *4»and nsf in the city Wafliington, are 360 a- | Ct '" ,ir
rlO I cresof reserved wood l. nd Forfait. Its advanta I'y au i
in j a re numerous poflefling three or four elegant I Frc
or he, g hf ». many fine springs, and an abundanca of I X 797»
ts ' P rin «P a lly white oaks. For a dock or |of thi
I lhip yard, no position can boad of equal benefit*, 1 the p:
having two coves, with narrow entrances, from los the
ft which at an eaf/ expence, tide water might be [lions;
to excluded, and docks funk, large enough to re- Iso far
In Ce w Z- ffel,ofanyfize : n | henfio
, I Wiilmig to retnsn amntereft in the property, I[to be
• j wonld prefer foiling; an undivided half orothree noi h<
"gbts. GEORGE FRENCH. Wltho ,
j For terms apply to Mr. Charles Minifee,Union I, n , r .
1. ft reet, Philadelphia, or Mr. Robert Waljb, Haiti- " u
Public Notice is Hereby Given, | be
j "DURSUANT to the of Congress, paflfed | reco " e
X on the ink day of June 1798, entitled, [ ho .thol
"an afl refpeclir.g Loan Office and final fettle- } s P irit c
y mc«t certificates, Indents as inferefl, and the I Thc
t unfunded or regiltered debt credited in the '•
7 books of the Treasury." I a sum
» ift. Thatpn the application of the creditors r which
1 refpetHively, or their legal attornies at any time '"'be
• after the last day of December in the present fu PP lie
e year, the princi al fumsoi the unfunded or re- or »y a
" filtered debt of the United States credited on cnargei
= the books of the treasury, or commissioners of tr
Loans will be reimbursed at the treasury of the a
United States can nei
' id. That interest upon the unfunded or re- duGon,
' giflered debts aforefaid will cease from anil as- dt '"
ter thr last day of December in the present year. rlcn t ;
3d. That the creditors refpeflively will be CBm P l ' l
entitled on requisition to receive fro® the pro- und ' 5
' per officers of the treasury, certificates «f fund- |he old
etl three per cent stock, equal to '.he arrearages ' s
of Interest due on the debts aforefaid prior to Tov
the firft d:y of January, one thonfandfeventun- mesnt
dred and ninety cue. three n
By order of the Board of Commissioners out 0 f
v , / 'J? ry to a
t award Jones, see ry. y ear , j
J
-' V • i 7
1798. &trt>iees, I
[copied <-
«enter- [ From a late piper. 1
line vrt- a j . j j
t£S REVIEW of THE last session
k, viz. 0E PARLIAMENT.
Dulls The lad session of parliament bei*g now
closed, we are naturally led to refer to the
39 22 circumflances under which it opened-—to
leview the principal measures adoped in the
150 course of it, and to compare the preieot
000 te an '| profpeft »f public affairs, with
coo that which presented itfelf at its opening.
000 The result it truly encouraging and atii
mating to every one who feels for the fccu
-500 ri t J ant j reputation of hi: country,
500 c P revlous 10 the revolution of the 4th of
-joo 1 epttmber, considerable hopes had been en-
Penn- pertained of peace, and there even teemed a
1 favor profpefl of such an alteration in the general j ,
dollar spirit and interaal system of the French go- •
ik. da- vernme»t, as might afford at lead an inter
nl In Va tranquility to Europe. At that too ■
a«ticn- me ™° ra ble period, all tbofe hopes inftautly 1
d a re- ,an 'med. After five years of war (in which
■IKS is ° ur efforts and expences had exceeded all i
vi&ion former example) we found ourselves com- <
ncern pelled to continue the cou'eft with an ene-I i
wealth "7* a , VoWcdl >' sou s ht nothing short <
o our final dettruftion } which neither I r
measured the resources, nor valued the r
er> blood of its fubjefls ; and was readv to j c
flake its own exKknce 011 any chance (how- t
3. ever desperate) of aiming a mortal blow a- f
, from g ainst o «r6.
We had hitherto supported the contert h
jl b y the a:d drawn from a flourilhing com- h
.ed off *«» undiltarbed and proved in- i,
1. he is | an ." * rora ihc continued accumu-J xi
■ hair * a t ,r) n of ?.6lfve and productive capital. ] r
r ''P- e ' em y ha<l - In fame period, di- p
a few mini/hed its population by millions ; atmi- a,
' ll ' a ted "s trade, navigation and manufaift- Gi
>f the J 1 "® » and facriftced and funk perhaps one d
haif of the whole aggregate wealth of the I m
country. Having long passed the bounda- ei
ry which would, according to all moral pro- e\
liabilities, limit the exertions of a nation, h.
if I they were become, uuder the guidance of er
°S, unrelenting despotism, only the more in
j formidable to their neighbours. In the I
is. J mid ft of internal weakneflVs and milery, the I «
'"* f Co " t, ' nuancc ' 'he fame gigantic and con- j
1 vulfive efforts', wasonty a flight compara
re la ravation of distress, already so great -
•rath an ™ buu#l as to make its farther cn-ada
nof j tlons karcely sensible.
id as I Hie weakness or timidity of the r,eft of I
o*r- I Europe, had left them at liberty to direst
lort- 1 the whole ,of their remaining force against
,';T the empire. They appeared deter-
CM ® > 10 "t to the utmost, and there
int. wc 7 t hrec diftina grounds, oii which they
ays, I P r oftffed to reft their principal hopes of fuc- I
As cess. ;
the I The firft of these, and which they were
nuft jfanguiae, enough to believe might of itfelf •
ul I force us to f »'render at discretion, was the
for I "P e,aation the total failure of our si- T
L nance, and the downfall of public credit. 1
j The second, was the boafled projed of
j the lprafion of this island itfelf, of effefting I '
t. a resolution in the country, and iic!
the conditions of peace en the banks of the
ftle Thames. . J er
'of- 'i'he third, was the support to be given an]
hia r I a r ebellioQ in Ireland ; the sepa ration of I deti
ug I that coantry from Grfat Britain, and the I dep
[6l J eftablifliment of an Irish Jacobin republic | 1
oy, I under the aufpicesof France. I ,lie
I Let 11s traee shortly what has palled as ind
J applicable to each of these heads. |!? c
ine I 1 T n* r °P e the failure of our finance, arose I
"1 | c '" e % fr< "" the :mmenfe accumulation of debt; J
shef he fu PP° red difficulty of farther loan,; tb« Z
" low Pnce of the funds, the lead of additional C P L
for ""i an , d the P erf " ,Con - that while the accuf- h(
_ tomed resources were, as they thought, exhaust- 'onf
co, no new mean, could be found for defraying I j ' n
nf- the *i e W V- E »?ge>-ated as this [ £ nt
j view of the lubjcft was in its ex I Pflv .
to was " ot chimerical. The real !»•',
{difficulty of ourfituation was one whick calm I rffffi'
I and impartial minds tpufdnot contemplate with
out solicitude. But, thanks to the vigor of A„r!
- government, to the firmnefs and wisdom of 1
I parliament, and to the good sense and spirit of (
the nation ! We have now the fati.faflion of I l!"a
er knowing that it has been met and f«rmo ß nted. '
O. I °" e °/ the Crft procetdm?-, of the fsffiot,
id Ir " ? a "-' ertain as accurately a3 was possible at u rm ;
ti- 1 ,0 ear 'y a P fri °d the probable amount of our ex-I Ar
j peaces ; and the climate th«n formed, has been trv u
if- I in . ail f ts parts, except so far as I r * ,
°. I a dd , t l °nal preparations have since become ne- I ; Q hi.,
i* If c ar y » an( * cven these have not very material- [ n f f,
a lly augmented the amount. j
it I From the complete liquidation of arrears in I n
:>f I *797» afl d from the change in the circumdaaces I '' V .
,r los the war, it was found that the expenftt or li. C
~ I the pref*n: year would be reduced below thofi 1 °
11 I of the last, by a sum. of fourteen or fifteen mi!-, }
e I 'ions! iß d the hvads of expenditure were now I}> U '
110 far firaplified, as no longer to leave an aapre- j ' .
I henfion ot'canGderab'e exceii. Still theamount T'
I I to he furnifhed was oue which ev,dearly could ''
e I "° l b e raised by a loan in the ordinary mode, i
j without a further depression of the Stocks, and [
I would be in the highest decree pernicious. The I
f whole furo to be rai ed was little less than twen- I«i .
Ity eight millions. Tfce manner in which this 1 10 '*
f j nas been aecomplithed, is tre/h in every one'i [
j J recolle<3ion r and is at once the ftrongefl proof | *
| both of the intrinsic power, and of the Zeal and ,
. j spirit of the country. I S a \ to
. I of the plan, as originally opened,
. 1 was t* raif: by an ordinary loan no more than l
1 sum «qual to that proportion of old debt ?'- C " cs
, 1 which the exifling finking fund would pay off J]"" i
Ihi the fame period. The remainder was to be have
f supplied eithtr by monies raised within the year "7. ab<
.jor Wy a loan, the capitaiSt" which was to be dif-I " tllcn .
charged within a (hort and limited time, by ex- I *'
j traordinary and temperary taxes. As long as """P 1 '
f such a system is adhered to, a year'even of war ? he ® le
can never leave the country fubjeift, at its con- L'i ; eu !
cluGon, to any greater permanent burden, either Unlted
of debt or taxes, than exilWl at its commence-1 r ? \ 1
ment and while resources can he found to ac
cemplifb this purpose, and while the finking I
fund is inalienably applied to the extin<£lioa of | _ .
the old debt, the public credit of the country [
is unafliitable [
Towards furoifhing part of the fupplie* j
meant to be raised within the year, a sum of j dajC a'
three millions has beeu advauced by the bank conven
out of thofe-increafed funds which, contra- *nd.bu<
ry to all the gloomy prediftions of the last
year, it has derived tio® the confequenccs
) of ameafurt; which waS at ti.e time pre
'♦ tended Jo be fatal to its credit and exigence.
It is j«w clear beyond a diubt, that the or
der of the 26th of February, 1727, has de
prive! the enemy of one of its chief means
510 M dilurbing public credit—has produced
additonal facility to commerce, instead of
cheeking and confining it,and hag given the
; now bank'.he means of affording aid to the go
to tic vernnrnt during tn; war, which it could not
Ok—to othervile have ventured to fwrnifh
in the Tie next and most coßtefled measure
relent which was prnpofed,' was the raising a gene
with nil conti ibution, on the mod extensive plan
rung. that.ecu dbe devised, from all thofc who pay
I ani- t') ahy of the afT-'ffed taxes; with a pi-ovilion,
that a f;im required from each irdivida-.l 1
.th 01 We will not now resume the detailed dif- 1
:n en- cuffion of this m«afure. After ail the at- •
ned a tempts to raise a clamour igainft the projeft, 1
j experience has already shewn (what we tho't t
1 o 9 ' I : 't this time fufficuntly proved by reason and
nter- argument) that the obj..aions against it <
t too were founded in prejudice or milreprefv-nta- '
autly tion.
.'hich I ihe tlrihg mod to be regretcd is, that g
d all I it does not extend as universally and equally f
com- as is to be wifhid, to all persons poffeffe<i of c
ene- j income of any description ; a.id that the mo- 1
short I difications which were thought necessary to t
ither I meet, parfal aod particular difficulties, will a
the I materially dirainiih its produce, as firft cal- a
f tojculated. Still, however, it is the firll Hep, a
low- to that mod ufeful and effeftual of all mra
v a- I furei, a general contribation from all classes S>
j proportioned to their refpefli.ve income. It
ntell | is the only prailical fchenie of the fort that "b
:om- - has ever been proptfed. Defeflive as it is,.
in- J it yet comprehends a great majority of the
imu-l \jrealthy part of the community. It pro-
J T 'des the mofl favourable txemptionj for the re
di- poorer orders.—Every precaution haa been w
imi- I adopted to distribute it as equitably as the bl
:a<ft- cafe would admit; and it has laid the foun- <"
one I dation of a system which (if the war conti- "J
the j nues) may, perhaps, in our own days, be
ida- extended and perfected; and which, at all 3'
? ro " events, vvill hold out an example, which we th
ion, hope the nation will have virtue and energy
: of j enough to follow, or in any future struggle f h
lore in which it may he engaged. th
th e J (To be continued.) pc
Xfjc ©asctte. S
-eat " l a
da- PHIL A DEL PHI A ,
of SATURDAY EVENING, OCTOBER »o.
infl rowlev, (Mad.) Sept. ao, 1798. b *>
ter- "l a meeting , of the inhabitants of Rcwley,
ere t0 addre/s tlx Pufdent of the United hi
ley St r M "' ""dthat Mejfrs• Parker Cleveland > t fa,
cfq. Jifepb Chaplin, ar.d David Mitchell, be „
a ctmmiuee to prepare the Address. Voted,
That tjbe.-folJawiagaddrefj, reported by the mC
r r if Is forwarded to the Preß
felf dent of the United States. vin
M ADDRESS, dif
JTo JOHN AD President of the United '
I States of America. Y Ol
of Si*,
Wi have takcn of thus pub- to
"S llrf n'f - ng yt " 1 ' does not ' ne conceive,
h leUen itsl important, and will not we hope ren, thz
der it less acceptable. v
en ,Ji " n u°!? W " h °" r Fcllow ' citizel 's. we feel,
en i and would tain expresso B r utter abhorrence and
of J deteftatiotf of th<|imwarrantable and piratical IS *
he I depredations comitted on our commerce can
lie I k . e an f O fP' A fe tlle infi lious and vile attempts to boii
f me . r,CJn C'tcens from their rulers, I
as Ito th r sn,ties inl 'olently offered t (, e
. «sr
j We ourunfhiken att«h-
• . I ment to the tedecal government, and fulleft an
" Potion .of you,- administration as Supreme ex- Can
f- 'hTn,',-,,! t p T aliy ~- K th ' 3 P eril>d ' we have mefl
1-j pleafure of oblerving the happy f wo .
E 1 d^fc nCeS from the numerous ad r
h I urefies to you, Ml connesion with your anfwors .
t conUl "'ng such valuable truths and maxims in
»I ( W1 ' the Present juncture of d
uIH ff si' 7 eonvifive force and extenfiv* 0 Y
I , ,ffljQon imong the great body of the people, day
if I , VC P , uc ed those permanent imprtfliani on ness:
I their minds, which will form a,i important bar- ence
. | rier against all future attempts on our excellent
cnJlitiit.on, either by foreign intriguers or do- r
medic diforganiaers. And we furtlier conceive P
j this muff render more eaJ'y the arduous taflc de wear
' voivcd 00 you. Sir, at this most critical aud a U P>^
_ I larmujg period of our national concerns. b!in?.
I Among the many evils that menace our coun- , B]
try we have this conization, that ihe late out- mcrc
? rage°n» conduft of France toward-; Americans ?"
. '« calculated to prevent the introduafon US '
lot Freucfc athe.fm and immoraliti. Evils t,OD !
more to bf dreaded than the most rancorous en- =
I mity of the terrible republic. J.
Accept, Sir, our finccre wi(lie« that you mav
I Jong Continue your adnnsiftration with your
f wonted wifflom, firmnefs and iutcgrity, sndbv
> y>ur known attachment to the religion 'A S
j Ood or our Fathers, recommend that nietv and
morality, which is to the preferyation thc
I of a republican gotcrnnuat.
1 NA7 H. KEZER, I Moderater fir
a n T a *d Meeting. ° : ie
At:efl t TifO,ViAS MIGHILL, Town Clerk. price , :
' £RT
I ANSWER rom
to the inhabitants of Rowley, in the State of C^"
Majjacbujetts. cra '
J Q«*tlemen, very 1c
I have received yeur address, adopted at a Ie- _- RI
gal town meeting on the toth of September,
X he , U . ,s lece P-taWe or important! TH
L : The numerous ad- Com,«,
di.cfrcs of m> fel ow-citweni, whifetlny ha/e land, -j
been t, « a delightful fburce of confolatiou, law of
havedemoaftrated to the world,'.bat our'coun- for the
try abomid. in every pirc of it, not only with or perf
/'L "" J4ld ufcful 'aients,
" '' h wntCTS °f elegant and mafteriv ac f "«"h
cximphainients. If these addresses were not '"X crt
I themle.ves proof* of a remurkahle conformity ?t Su "
111 .entiment and feelings, throughout ail the tUi ' ce "
United State*, they would be fufHcient if -e r ,e- P er4 « a:
rally rtad and well confidcred, to produce all forc '
the harmony and unanimity which can be want- arc „ rc< f
ea for the defence of «ur country trultees
JOHN ADAMS.
~ Sept,
[ , J h * K "''h Office is kept open night and
, ai , at the City Hall, uhere every neccflarv
conven,ence is procured for removing the sick
, and bwvnjg the dead. ~ A f evi
WILLIAM-sALLEN. l°r i
Health Q£ U e y Syicmbtr 24.
ll I.M A
* X
: pre-1 HINTS AGAftf&T TRIFLING.
knee. I
tie or- THE Age of Reason! be it so. But
as de- where are the proofs of its wisdom ? accord-
Titans ing to the laws of nature, reason and wif
iaced dom fliould always dwell together. If ever
ad of they be fcparated, by the gigantic boldness
■n the of rebels agai.-ift truth and heaven, each for
e go- lorn will mourn incefTantly, until they regain
d not their native home.
Tint virtue exalts, whilll vice debases;
:afure or, that to be virtuous is to be rich and
gene- happy ; but to be vicious is to be poor and
: plan referable, are truths univefally acknowledg
es pay ed. They are likewifc fanftioned by expe.
ilion, ricnce, whose authority to oppose, or even
ida .l to question, is the extreme of folly.
:<>me. From these. premises indubitably may be
! dif- drawn this condufion, all attempts to lessen
se at- moral obligations, or to take away their force 1
jjett, mull be unfriendly to man, both in hii/oci
tho't al and individual chara&er.
i and Of these kind are conceived to be all sf.
ift it foits to obliterate this solemn command
uta- " Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy."
The objection, that, this commani ivas
that given to a peculiar people of old, appeals to
ually have no validity. If it be-applicable -o that
*'j of command, why not to the whola decalogue ?
mo- But dellroy that; and, if a conclusion may
yto be drawn fro,n her pad conduct, we maybe
will aflured that, rrafou thus made paramount in
cal- all cases, will be litterally and elTentially,.
(lep, as a Satan in the world,
nra- In one aera we read that the Sabbaths were
afies given as ablejjing. In another acra it is avv
. It fully thieatened, to take the Sabbaths atvdy ;
that "because the people profaned them, by ob
t is, fcrving them irreverent.y, or as days of rr.irth.
the H* net*, certainly, we ought to t.ake warn
pro- '"g, <"> din the Superlative abundance of our
the reason, try to pick tip a little <wifdom. It will
>cen wear Weil, ana amply recpmpence our trou
the hie. It will last as long as the record of the
>un- motive of tile writer of this article, and of the
nti- use. which you, reader*, lhall make of it
be But all tiiefe old declarations. f *tt imma~
all g'""> are done away by the manifeltation of
we 'l'e great mystery.
rgy Very differently from this imagination,
; gle the blefltd Lord Jesus appears to have
thought and a<Sed. He declares, in v?ry
positive terms, that he came not to drjlroy the
arU} - Of him, and of his disciples it ia
likewise repeatedly said, Thpy Uught or
_ preached bafore public aflemblies $n the Sab*
bath day.
In those days, if the command to keep holy
the Sabba! h day had not been remcmbered t
how could the Jews pretend to accuse Jefu«
Chnll and liis disciples of breaking the Sab
bath t
ley, When our belfled Lord reprehends their
ted hypocritical obfrvance of that day, he tells
"j them, lhe Sabbath was made far man, and
J nnt ,nan for the Sabbath. And, I will have
lb l mercy, and not facrifice.
eji- . J. 1 " 8 hc . ex P la ' n6 > and at the fame time
vindicates his own conduft, and that of hi*
f' a PP' a '' n K t0 his accusers—.
■d ' y e 50t on the Sabbath, take one of
your (keep out of a pit? Ar.d from the (fall,
di ye not, on the Sabbath, lead yoar cattle
ib- to brooks of water?"
re, In a thousand iiallances it might be fhewit'
n- that on these days, the Sabbath was held in
remembrance, as the Lord our God had
n( | been pleafed.of old to command But enough
:a) is already fiid for the fatisfa&ion of mea of
r e candour; and perhaps too much for the
to bounds of a newspaper.
s, In these days of awful difptufations, when S
■a the terrible judgements of Jehovah (hake
the whole earth, why will men thus rave
h- and vage? Can they rufli against the thick .
p. bolfes of the Almighty's buckler, and li«e?
s - Can they fhi'eld tiierofelves from his dreadful
messengers of wrath, the peftilei.ee and the
y sword ?
* O that men were wife to stand in awe,
n > and know, and acknowledge that he is God,
,1 aad H' des fy"> there is not another. Do this,
i? O Y e fjnß ° { men, and ye /hall make the
, day of your death the beginning of happi
n nels; of new and glorious state of txift.
t* T'- T i lC e r rlaftlV 'g & ateP ft 'II lift up
their heads, that ye, heirs of glory, mar
e pass into those blcir.-d manf.ons, where the
weary are at reft; all tears are dried
"P- and wners -wicked cease from iron
bhng.
Bleffcd and glorious day! Haflen, in
mercy hail en its advent, O ti.ou bieff-d Te-'
i us, Pr,nee of Peace, and Captain of Salva
tion 1 hlofannas in the highellf
Artiileri/ls Pocket Companion.
_ >«: Publilhed,
VV SYSTEM for the Discipline of the Artrt
-11, It,y of the United Srat.s of America, o-
Yo ""g Artillenfts Pocket Companion,
By Colonel STEVENS,
ftree! ft!
era! aflbrtment of Books and Stationary Y J£
very lowest terms, t>y wholesale and wail
außult i ;
Take NotkT ~ 1_ "
and, at Auguit term, i 7s> g, f or the bcaefit oj
law ot of Penfifylvania
for the debtor to (MircrHf, a 'l his property, real
or perfo:i»j, for the rfc ot hi, cr .L>r»,
judges of tud ooa.-t was pleased to .l
fourth Monday in Nc*ta,l».r nexr to heir ml £
-y creditors « the court „f on P."fr
at ijunliui-y, and to g.ve ro ice of the fume for
three weeks 1,1 Mr. Brown's and Mr ■
per.,, and in the Northumberland Gazette There*
fore, you and each of you who are VredwT
are reqndled to attend at said court, and appoint
: a ?, " rec r c thc P r *P"ty, ami apdy he
s=r..u,
Madeira Wine.
A few pi pes of remarkably Sne MADEIRA WIJfE
fit for .mmertoeuf*, »d at a rcduc.d pr.ee-£>,
yard.
'. sotttins SD'at* £o<ni
- ALBANY, October 12.
The " LTON" is taken in bis own
toils.
B7 a gentleman from Rutland, we are
informed,, that MATHEW LYON, the \
Reprefetjtutiv; in Congrcfs, for the TV°ft- 1
trn Diftriet of Vermont- was, at the late <
Circuit Court of the United States, for ,
the District of Vermont, held in that J
town, Indicted for /editions praftices— ,
tried—found GUILTY, and Sentenc- c
ED to four mouths Impripnment, and to
pay a fine of One Thousand Dollars.
>
NEW YORK, Odober 19.
Number of deaths in this city for 24 hours ■ '
ending Wednesday evening, 21—13 of the '
t:
We are hapf>y in announcine, this day,
that the Fo>t on Governor's Ifla.id, has as- r
fumed the appellation of " FORT J \Y c
Under the command of captain Frye, we
have no doubt, but that it will support he
honor of this celebrated and appropriate ,
name. 'Ve have, by some unaccountable • '
emitted to mention, that when Ge- ; '
nernt Pincknev, our late envoy to France, ■
arrive.! in our harbor, Fort Jay politely gave ] 1
him a federal salute.
The Paris papers represent Talleyrand ' '
Perigord' letter to Mr. Gerry as a formal j
proof of the pacific disposition of the French ; '
government to the United State. Jn com
paring the mild tone *}f this letter with the 1
arrogint language of the preceding notes, 1
writU 1 by the fame minister, ss well as the
hoitile proceedings of France with the ener
gy displayed by Congress, to maintain its '
independence, and r.onfidering also what
France ha# to apprehend from a uuion be
tween England and the United States, we
can only discover in it the fhameful retreat 1
of a government which was insolent as long 1
as it thought itfeif feared : but which has
Junk into raieannefs and infignificance, the '
moment it was opposed in a manly manner,
and'its treacherous and insidious policy laid
open to the world.
It appears, from th evidence given in the
late trial for high treason, in Ireland, that
Talleyrand Psrigord was to have affilled the
revolutionists in that country. The dou
ceur which he was to .have received for his
lervices has not yet been disclosed
Ltttersfrom Paris of the 30th July give
reafoti to believe that another revolution is
preparing there. Tbe jacobins have not
forgiven their lad explosion from the coun
cils and they are stirring up all their friends
to change the face of affairs. They have
began to attack the diredtwy by a motion
in the council of five hundred, to deprive '
them of their power over the jourrtalifts '
This motion will probably be carried in one
of the ftrft fittings. The dire£lory, on their '
fide, [allow the r old maxim, and put to '
death a great number of roya ifls in o:«!er
to fiigh'en the jacobins.
The armies quarrel about thf words ci
tizen and mor-fn ur. Some soldiers will not
give up the monlieur, others will be called
citizens. At Evreux, in Normandy, the
firft regiment of dragoons, having quareled
with the municipality, was ordered to d«-
part. They obeyed the summons ; but
when they set off, a great number of sol
diers cried Vive le Roi ! God save Louis
XVIII! They have not been punished.
The armies are very much in want of re
cruits, but nothing can induce the citizens
returned to their hom's to rejoin. The mi
r.ifter at war complains of it very bitterly.
• |
ALEXANDRIA, 03. 13.
Protection to Commerce, combined
with Patriotism.
The armed fchorners Neptune and Wel
erime Return failed from this port yesterday
for Barbadoes—the former carrying. 12 iar
risge guns and 6 fwive's, commanded by
capiain Abel Willis; the latter carrying 6
carriage guns and 12 fwivcls, commanded by
captain Guthrie; both of the vefftl6 are :
however, under the immediate command of :
captain Willis. They have been fitted cut j
at this port by Robert T. Hcoe, 1 fq. and
afford a fpecimrn of naval architecture and
patriotic spirit Worthy < f imitation Tl ey 1
are the firii regular commissioned veffcls tl-at ■
have failed out of this date since the pass- '
ing of the late ?.dt of Congress. Oil pafllng
the town they honoured it with a federal
fa'ote offxtecn cannon, which was returned ,
by repeated hnzaas from numerous citizens
who crowded on the wharves. It was truly
n pleasing fight, and every heart was inte- 1
relied in their success. On palling the
mafion-houfe of the venerable Washing
ton a similar salute was fired, and tlie
fehooner* proceeded on their deftincd voy
<■'(*?■ The beil judges declare, that two
better rigged, or completer.veffels, in every
po nt of view, never failed from the Poto
mac. And from the known courage of the
commanders, and the spirit and ability of
the crews, no doubt remains but they will
do honour to the owner as well as their
country:
44 For ncVr fltall »he Sons of Columbia be (laves,
4 " While the bears a plant, or the fca rolls its
wave*."
%** PERSONS wholly unknown
to nie, who write letters to my ad
dress on occafons entirely personal
to themselves, are particularly re
quested not to put me to expense of
foliage,
Torn Wakd Fen no.
Ofi. 18 " 3t
*
PHILADELPHIA,'
SATURDAY EVENING, OC'O3£S. 10.
■ 1
The Address of the Young men of Phi
ladelphia to PrefiJent Adam%'in the month
of May la!t, with his anfuvrthereto, have
been copied into the Parig Jiurnah, from
different London prints.
The affairs of this country, which had so
long been passed Over in tilent negledt
most of the French jonrnnl'fts, begin now to
attract their eager attention. paper
contains fomethrng relative to Am-rica.
1 hey affeft, however, to entertain the most
contemptuous id'.'as of our power and rc
fources; and uniformly aifplay 3 coufuniate
ignorance of the real (late of the coun'ry,
its politics and views, its spirit, and means
j of resistance to their schemes of tyranny
. and opprelfiort.
In the insulting letter of Brune, the
' French plenipotentiary, to the Sardinian j
miniiler, he tells him he ha 3 uttered
exprjflions and afferttons repugmrt to those
Ample virtues which are the pride of the
! French nation.
The <virtues of whfch France has made a ;
display towards th- po»r Sardinians, and to
! every other nation, are indeed Jimple to 3
! fault. There is not in nature a more simple,
j nor at the lame time a more republican vir
| tue than self love : But there is not in
] the long catalogue, one whose operations
; are more powerful. It has led the Grande
| Republique a fairy dance round the globe; i
| and in the midst of her vagariei, ha* eui- j
braced within its extended confines, the ci
devant monarchy of Sardinia. The royal
pageant, tired, like the reft of the world,«
with herfmple virtues,cries out tte qitiduimis. j
Ard this is very repugntnt to those notions I
of honour and gOod faith, and those finite j
virtues, of which the RepuMic is so proud.
Nine ille lachrym*.
From the language held by the .council
of five hundred it would appear, that in va
rious diftrifts cf France, th# Royalilts,
though so often believed to be extirpated,
are ftiil numerous and formidable.
In the Council of 500, on the 20th July,
Gourlay, as organ of a special committee,
made report on the uecefity of ethblifhing
a new capital for the department of l'as dc
Calais; " for," said he, " the administra
tors, in the town where they now affemblc, 1
finiing themf»!ves in the midst of the poign
ards of the Roya ids, are exposed to the'
greatest dangers,"
In the cafe of a coietelled eleetion, Blin ,
states lo the council, that the dispute ori
ginated with the royalists in the primary
assembly. " The signatures to the petition
against the eleftioa, he fays, are either of
the municipal officers, turned out by the
Dires»ry aftef the 18th Fruftidor, or others
in public employ expelled after that epoch
for inciyifm, or of members, of a pretended
constitutional circle, whose objeA is te ai-nul
the clcftions of year 6, as it had done those
of year 5. But the eietted are men agreeable
t» government, and consequently ebaoxious
to the petitioners,"
Preparations were making at Portsmouth,
N. H. on the 12th in!l. to celebrate on the
19th the Birthday of President Adams.
The papers relating to the negotiation of
our late envoys to France, having found
their way into the Frankfort Journals, and
the Courier du Bas Rh'tn, cannot fail of
penetrating into France; so that in fp'ite of
the flav-ry of the Prtfs in France, the whole
of that fccne of loathsome ,\iid attrocious
iniquity will, to the great joy of all good
men, be laid open to the French p«»pie.
A late Dublin paper contains the follow
ing paragraph : —lt is said, and we believe
truly, that a certain noble earl (Moira) has
fairly and candidly acknowledged his error,
in fa far as he has, unwittingly, abetted the
designs of treason ; and as the best repara
tion for his mistake, has determined, as ear
ly as possible, to Rate public!? in both king
doms the reasons on which he has altered
his opinion.
It appears by a Bolton piper, that the re lfon
why th 1 ? vcfll'l in which Mr Gerry came pafien
ger put into Poiifmouth, was on account qf be
ing chaied by a lugger This lugger was pro
bably dispatched by Talieynnd to intercept the
United States brig Sophia, ir order that Mr.
Gerry might be detained yet loiajzer in Europe,
or to seek an opportunity todo-xim upon bis mar
row bones, and aialce propofitioas tor a recon
ciliation, unaccompanied with" demands for
bribes, and the puvch -• fe of public paper ( -.•■orth
only ten Qitllifiga on the pound) at the nominal
value. Talleyrand said some time since, " not
much was to be fraied from a nation <wss were
Four Years about building three jhips !!" The
Bi(hi,p has by this time heari a different ac
count of the naval efforts of America.
{By the William Perm, Cipt. Joftah.~\
London, Avg. 28.
In addition to the circumllancts which we
yelleniay tlated, we are enabled to add the
following, from the best foarces of informa
tion.
The French frigates failed from Roclic
fort about a fortnight ago, and are supposed
to be the fatjie which were mentionetl in
our Plymouth letter, iuferted 011 Wednes
day the 16 h in(l. on the authority of the
crew of La Valliant, a French corvette, tak
en by h s majesty's {hip Indefatigable, of
44 guns, as having failed for lieland. The
naii.es of those veffcls were dated to be La
Medee, La Concord,, and La Francois.
Letters from Venice, of the 4th inftarit,
con.irm the accounts br»Hght by* the
■ French papers, ofz conspiracy having heen
difcovevcd at Padua.
The Raftadt article it not of so recent a
date as that received through the channel of
France. It states the suppression by the
Austrian plenipotentiary, of (hat Article in 1
the last nute of the deputation of the em- i
pirc, by which ti.c'y consent to the furren- !
dcr as Ehrenbrcttfttin. * y
Acccrdir.g to let ers from Swabia, of !
the 13th inrt. 4000 French troops had eii- J V
tered the country of the Grifons. 1 f
Brvxelks, Au:c. li. I
The prep irations for war, on the part of (
the French, are without example, even since
the revolution. The troops are filin" off
towards the river Nida, and if we may judge i
from appearance*, war wtli again be renew- 5
ed between the Emperor ant! the French
republic, in which cafe it is generally sup- j
pvfcJ the king of Pruflia will take an a£liye a
part.
d
Berlin, Aug. 7.
The commandants of the Pruflian army a
or demarcation have granted leave of ab
fence to a number of fcldiens, which is a '
proof that war is Co near at hand as expected,
for it is not customary for a naticfti to weak- j.
en hcrfelf in presence of an enemy.
iVetzkr, Augvjl 20.
The French troops on the fide of -h
"the Rhine amount to i2,o®omei». b
Amflerdim, Auguji 30. I
Numerous bodies of Bauvian and French a
republican troops, are on their march to d
Croniugen. Th: enemy thtcaten more than
they ever did, the Bat avian coasts—and it lc
is expected that they will soon make an at
tack agairift the island of Walcheren, which h
they keep blockaded on all fides.
a
Paris, %itb August.
The Protestant ministers of Genfva, imam- j
, moufly deeped, to transfer the ueietß'.n.ieS »"f »
their worlaip to the decadi. The following lel
, ter was written by them, to the French relideq: n
1 jftc-sporte :
! " The Mlaifiers ef the reformed Chriflian n
! religion, who extreife their minifky at Geneva, e
I deftrom <*f giving a proof of their refpeift tor
the laws, of their gratitude fur the prote'lion
which the government has granted to their wor
tfcip, and o. their regard Y> r you. Citizen Mm-
Ifier, have taken into serious cor-fideration, the J
reqneft which I nude to them in your behalf, to
have worClip on the Decadi ; and they hare fl
charged me, in enpreffing to you the!'; fenti- j t
menu, to answer the said requefl. c
" Tbat in preserving the integrity of their
wfcrfhip tinder the fjfecuard of coaftitutional
l«w«j they have decided, to rife on the days of
the decadi, tiie exercises of this worship, to ri
make the rep jfe of this day, serve the public
tranquility. n
<f In trsnfmitting to the heads of the gov
ernment, c»r dilpofuion, deign, citizen com
miifioner, to incline. them favorably to us,
friendi *f order and peace, ministers of a wor- 3
(h'tp, which, in its form, anj in its different
ails, tends only to establish the purett morality , v
on the moll solid fousdations, to cause to reign } y
and to maintain good morals, the sole source of |
felicity, and of prolperity to the peaple, which 1 p
are the end aad th# glory of all good govern-
mentj, &c. &c." ,
[Poor Geneva, how art thou fallen ! After
haviuglnlt thy political exigence, by thy base
fukmiCl»n to the vi!e intrigues of Frenchmen — : o
to he obliged at last to part with the religion of t
thy firners—and t« wenkeit-ihe farce <rf the Hi- Q
vine inflation of the Chriflian Sabbath, by
bu'ely (looping to celebrate the holy exercises of
Cbriftiaaity on the decadi—a djy purposely ap
pointed by the infnjels of France, touudermine .
the pure religion of our blcflsd Redeemer. May
this be the fare of every Stqte, which, like Ge
neva, has invited the deadly embraces of de
generate and cr.iVupt France ! —J
she adminiflration chamber of Zarice has re
ceived orders- taget in.readiness without delay,
provifians and "forage for five mpntiis ; she will
also keep in the city, one hundred horses, to be
ready when wanted. Adjitart-general Lavv is
preparing to he there with his etat-major, as
' .iqchi as polTib'*, They write from Switzerland
- tlvat every vigorous exertion is making forane«v
and bloody campaign. '
J Paris September 4.
L-tters from Cadiz am ounce, that th?
too familiar iitte couTfe between the Eug- j
lifli and Spanish fleet-, has caused some ru
mours, and that the agents of Government
(lopped (no doubt merely foe forms fake)
some small vessel?, loaded with provisions,
destined for the English squadron ; one, a
mong the reft, carried ta the English, one
bun Jred (beep.
' ]
Marine
Nezv-Cajlle, o'Sober 3.
Arrived 1
Ship Amiable,Tiliinghaft, London & Cork. -
Thomas, Storey, Liverpool ditto.
Schooner Sally, Haley, do. do. t
Ship Langllon, from Hull, one of the fleet, j
, and (hip C«efar, Howland, 40 days from ,
Lifiion, are below
Sailed, (hip Fabius, Devan, for Hamburg,
HBd brig Eagle, Campbell, of 14 gun-, on •
a cruise-
I A gentleman, paflenger in the Thomas in- 1
; forms that he left Liverpool the 20th of 1
I Atiguft, fdyje day saw the (hp Clothier, (
| Girdner, from Philadelphia to Liverpool, •
1 within 12 hours fail of that port. Next 1
1 d.iy (poke the Commerce, of Boolhbay, '
_ | who had spoke the Clothier, &• d was in
[ formed that (he had captured a French pri
vateer of 10 guns, in long. 40, j
A
NilV-Tcri, 08. 18. |
1 arrived, Bays, '•
1 Ship Lucinda, , Dublin
Y(-ung Eagle, Pollard Ln-erp,,n!
: Brig Walhipfto.i, , C»rk
. j Schr Egla tine, Smiih Bourdeaux ;6
f 'Ship Wa/hington, —, left Cerk Sept' 7, *
. in company with abut foo fail of meicMnt
( men, under convoy of the Cleopatra and Htea
fuut (lic.ps of war. Aug n, spoke the schoon
er Betsey, of Sahinfe. (rorj Baltimore, bound
• t» Silem, 8 days qui, lat 40, 17, N. long 69,
- W. Aug u, loft the fleet in a fog, anil
I squally weathei. On the »7th spoke flnp Ca
milla, of and from Uoil'on, Thomas Seward,
matter, bound to Malawi, 21 itayt ot"., all well,
r 'at 4.t, 00, N. h;iig 35, o. , W.
The Dorfetfhrre and Si-jth Devon militia, I
c wai said to have joined the rebels.
>' ' ' • ' | ,
» Phi jWastfiug was handed us so) pjblicatijH b-r
. j Capt i\ogers\ arrived here fmm Halifax.
_ | Ship Penelope, Owned byjuno and Cos, loft
| her cables, anchors, main anil roizen mails and
. ( copper rubbed ami nuHi.i^'JreJ.
; Ship Liierty,. owned in Philadelphia, by l?o
---■ t hen Dennifoh and others loft her b">wfprir,
(fore ami rcizen m-.ls, wir-dlefs, hull ind rigg
ing —very much injured a*,d lays 00 ihere.
Ship Henrietta, owned in Philadelphia, by J. [j
f R%fs, lays bilged with 9 fs«'t water in the hold j
hnwfprit, fore and ruizen masts gone, and 101 l
her ancho:» and cables.
Siiip B.flitotft, prize, under Danilh colors,
S ashore on the rocks and m'lflbe uuloadcdto be
- got off; loft her anchors and cahles.
1 Ship Little M:.ry, owned jn Providence, by
C. Bri/gs, veffjl ashore and cannot be got off;
, ter cargo of uuligo and fugi'r greatly damaged,
anchors and cables lofV.
Ship Ann, Davenport, owned in Ireland,
dismasted ;■ on shore and totally Inft. •
Ship of Halifax, loft her bowsprit
asd otherwtfe damaged*'
. Ship Matilda, of Halifax, a light ship broke
'rim the-wharf and overset in the harbor, fill- j 1(
eu an f poneto the bdttoni. '
Hr.g'Free fttafon, 1 owned 'at Boston, .by C."
Srr.ullj and others j oti (hurt- but wilfhe got off L
Brig William, owned by Evans, inPuilAieL'
pliia. totally loft anddier cargo. '
Schr>one;r , owned in Boston or
Newbury,, ashore and broke her ketJ, loft _
bowsprit, anchors and cables.
Brig D'incan, ot London, owned by
Brook Watson and Co. loft her faremalt
apd bowsprit, and pone on shore h'jih and
i dry.
Brig Elisabeth, of Liverpool, (N. S.)
101 l her rabies a'd anchors, high an.l dry.
Brig Lydta, 'Hipper of Liverpool .( N. S,)
loft her anchors, cables a-:d foreriinft.
Brig Nymph, of Halifax, loft het cables
and anchors.
BripSt.John, of Martinique, owned by
Bymer and co. rubbed much of her fide and
(heathir.g, and othfrwife csnfiderably da
maged.
Schooner Sally of Halifax, dismasted.
1 much damaged in the hull, and with diffi
culty will' be get afloat.
Brig Cork, owned- at Quebec, by L.
Duniere, loft her foremaft ar.d bowsprit.
Brig Queen, of Halifax, loft her lower
yards, bet fide and stern very much injured.
1 Brig Prihcc, Edwards, of Halifax, a
fhofe-high and dry, but not materially in
jured ; and many other veflels and coasting
crafts injured' and driven ashore. y
Died, on Wcdnclday ev£ning, Mrs.
rah Swarts, in the 99th year of her age. cs
mail) aged 58 years. '
on Wednesday, Mr. Eben. Swain, ur
of the Northern Liberties,' fhipwrigkt, aged a (
[ 30 years! E,
1 pn Thursday, of the prevailing fe- 111
. ; ver, Mr. John Grimes, jun. of the city, a
1 : young gentleman of promising abilities, t j
? | ——. Yesterday inthe Pennsylvania Hof- p :
1 pital, Mordecai Ackley, of the Fever, in U:
which a new cafe occurs this morning in the w
f House. , ■ 3. C. p
. , on the ifith inft. at his own house
. of the Fever, Warner Mi/flin, a much ef- h
f teemed member, among tltfe people called
Quakers.
f 1
DONATIONS,
Received at the Encampment at Mailer's 1
place, for the use of the poor.
O&nber 19.
Two hundred and feventy-five dollars, from
Meflfrs. John John Caldwell,
\ Theodore Dwight, Mason K. Cogfivell
and Edward-AViiliams, jun. on behalf of
s several cf the inhabitants of Hartford and
s the neighbouring tQw.nj in Connecticut.
A being one half of t-he-fum, forwarded for
v the use of the two encampments.
Twenty buthtls potatoes, and a bundle of
cloathh'g, from Mrs, Shippen, of Farley,
Bucks couuty, delivered by Mr. Asa
5 Totniinfon.
Ni e dozen ■ infants cluathitig, from Mrs
Thoaias Ketland.
1 John Intheep 1
) Jona. Robefon, > ? m ~
'» 'lfaac W. Morris, j
e DONATION.
Received by the appointed to relieve
thejick and infirm poor in the city.
From Thomas Wiltar, and Jofk. Wain, 19
cord of wood •
♦ By order of the committee,
EDW. GARRIGU.ES, wen
Attest,
P. Barkkr, Clerk.
10th mo. 18th 1798.
'• Cj" The Office of the Mayor of
the City of Philadelphia, is held for the
pref«rnt at the State House in the Court
n room. 08. 18.
v REMOVAL.
n '~T~*HE oflice ps thft Secretary *f the Comtniflion
-1 ers tpr into the t^enty-firfl
i_ article »f rhe treaty, of iritndlhip, limits and navi-
gatinn, between Bit Catholic Maje'iy and tiie U
nired Stat. K of America. the prcfepc, reniev
> ed from No. 54, fowMi Second ilr-er, to a large
two riory brick hou.'e on the r'gf t hand, g®ine
t up the Germantcwn rwadj ufuaiiy called Matters'
house.
n J hole concerned arc informed that, norv.ith
(lajirting the prevalence of tfte in Philadelphia,
1 daily attendance has been, a»d to be
given at the faH office, until the rerarn of the citi
zen? ; & that on the fev'enteenth day of November
next, the terra of eighteen mocths will expire since
the <!ay on which the commifltnncrs aflVmtl«d
r< after which period no romplahit* or applications
can poflib!y\)zz received by them #
Letters andinclofures poll-paid will beduly at
tended to by.
* PETER. LOJiRA, Sccietary,
6 October iS, 1798. § lot
PKTING W ORK,
'! Of Every Kind,
d EXECUiED AT THE SHORTEST
>, NOTICE,
il At Ike Ofuce of the Gaz(-.tt£ of the
l- UNST.Fr^TATKS,
j- And forwarded ngreesbly todirec
1' tion, any where the vicinity of
the city,
oa. li. itl
! r - '9
cJty Hospital "ftEPORT,
Fcfr the zoih October.
' ■ ADMITTED. ; t
jack——, />mi J.'rontgomriff
Mich. M'Langlilen, Jane B:vcns.
DIED.
Cathrrifie Neefe, c
Fredk. Jacobus Var.den Houvro
Remaining in the Hospital 54, 20 of whom
?.rr -on the recovery.
Interred frym city and f\jburb» 10
City Hospital 2
Total ii
. PHILIP S. PHYSICK.
Chrhstopher Darrah, Steward.
By order ol the Board of Managers.
WILLIAM JONES, Prefiaent.
Attest, Timothy Parson, Clerk.
THIRI EEN new cases of the pre.
vailing fever, reported for the last 2+
h»urs by 15 phyfician6.
List of all the Burials in the fever a{ Grave
Yards of the City and Liberties of
delphta, as talten from the boohs kept ly I
I Clergymen, Sixtons, &e.
, r > 41C
A awes of the Burial Grounds.,
Clinil Church - ... o »
St liter's .... 00
St. PjuU .. . . '•»-
Fir'l Prefbyterinn - ... © 01
Second Prvfbyterian - 0 o»
Third Frefbytc'ian ... 00
Scots Prtfbyterian ... 00
APrciat. Church ... o g>
Sr .Vary'
Trinity Church ... ° o
Fiends' - 20
Free Quakers' ... 00
SivctJc' - 00
Germ* 1 Lutheran . • - . °
German Keformcd. Presbyterian 1
Moravian's' . . 10
Baptifls* .... ! 0
Mct!io'4i!?s' . . . o cf
Uriiverfalifts' «... o D
Jews' ..... o 0
City Hospital - . . . 12 o
Kensington • - . M . o a
Coatei'a ..... 00
—* I
Total far the last 24 hours I
I 7' 1
TAKE CARE OF THE SWINDLER.
WE, the fuhferibers thiuk it our duty to no'-ity 1
the public of the coudud oi « man whom wa con
ceive to be m greit a deceiver as ever we had
knowledge of, an 4 whose drift appears to he, to
cheat and defraud every person over whom he can
by intrigue get ths advantage- Ih person we
arc about to describe came to the ftafe of Delaware
about the 25th ot lall mouth, io chs stage from the
Eastern fliore of Virginia—brought a wife whom h«
married about four week? before, a ftcp daughter
asd a negro lad—appeared here by the name of
Henry Penn Wharton, repiefenting himfelf to be
the great grand-son of William Penn, the firtt pro
prietor of Pymfylvania ; had told, as we are cre
dibly informed since, iu the southern states, that hs
was formerly married to a fitter of governor Mif
flin ; that he owned many fcarea in the bank ot
Pennfylvauia, and that he was concerned in three
(lores in Philadelphia; thatheheldin the right of
his children, a confiderajjle property in the Jonef
toga manor. Warner Mifflia, one of the l'ubfcri
fyi hereto, ttaiallioa. faun the EaScra flrc c of
\ irgiaia, at Snow Hill met with the aforetaid per
son, who introducedhiiafeff as Henry Penn Whar
ton, of Philadelphia, mentioning that he had been,
in yirginia and the Carcli. aj, rchcarfing to. him
ers characteri in the different Hates,
.Which this fulifcriber new ; and jut as he wis a
bout to start from the pub.ic home at Snow Hill,
1 faU Whaiton requeUol the loan of feme money
till hs got Into ti a neighbourhood of Dover, where
' he intended to hop till he &outd write up for his
I foa to bring carriages to lake them into J.ancafter,
f coui ty, in confluence gf tl,« fcmcr in jPhi!adeli>bia,
I when he got dollars. On his arrival a Oover,
he wrote t, Duniei MilHia, one of the fabfenber*
■ hereto, requeuing him cxpediCfaufly to fena can i
r taltethem to his l a'oout 3 miles dif
taut, which wa* done j and i o ippcar-d to conduit
f so well, a$ to berefpe&ed by the atighbours, hav
my; iafcly iiiarried the rilict &i colonel Curl, of
' Hamj ton, in Virginia.
Notwiihiiati.iing his ajjp-rent genteel carnage,
5 iom thin S ß fi ' at fcfpicion. W.
5 i.liifyn letting oit a fcw tiajs,after for Pbiladclnhia
to attaud the yeat.y meeting of Friends, where it
was natural to couclude ..nojnry wouhi be made
refpediug this in l'ome fort < <stcd p irfcn, he ac
con ingly started the day after, under pretence of
goin;; ic Dov. nrr.gVtcwM, in Pennsylvania, after'
cai riagis binileli, to take hi* wife and tfeo-daughter
up to Lancaiier, putpo£nj( to return in 6 days.
? Inquiry wa? in Philadelphia,but no such per
son was known there ; this circuraftauce was kept
trooi h:s wile t ill the time appointed for his re
turn had elapsed, when it w;* wuet>ed to her; the
femnd means to get to his tn k, and found
some o a? >apers, a ccnficate li*ned with the names
of Warmer Mifflin, Thorns Mifflin, William Mil
ler, and Jonathan Mifflin, certifying that he vs as a
member « f tkc Orient's
to 1 favel i!»to several southern settlements of Friends
Bic. We have very clear' irformatian, that when
in the iettlemeots where they lived southward» he
[ preicnded that he was a member ; but very differ
ent whfcn remote from them. Many clear
dances have turned up £nce, to prove him a grand
importer, and a viie rafcnl, and not worthy cf a
place in the world; for fitce his departure, many
exertions have been nurd- to find out who he real
ly is, and h.s place of a. 1 : de. Softie papers left be
hind in the trunk ..afforded a due where y we have
t come at the full knowledge of him, from th« time
of his coming into thi» country He came from
Ireland into the nciglibourljood of ILancaoer,\vheft
about 16 years ot age; hii real name is Hugh
, Workmar, and has at this time a wife and four
children, within about 5 miles of Laucafter, in t'ie
i mofl abjeii; poverty, who have been iien very late
ly by Jon than Huun.one of the fubferi! ers here
to, who went there in search of him,and who wa»
there inform*?<l he ma;ri<d a wif« about four"
J years ago in North Carolina, brought her tofhih
. «lelphia, aid fooa afur took all her money, ?nd left
r her to (uft .r.
g Ihc wile he married in Hampton of is
a won.an of excellent breeding, whom he has also
. rohbed 01 all he could get. Th re was coniidera
ble of money put into his hands by Tb&mas Mar*
tin, a lawyer of Snow Hill, to fend to a client In
Philadelphia, and ft by Gvorge i<of* T nl '9 ps
said place. a ,q C 7. .'viiillm and
paid not a farth ng, and borrowed a fuddle cf J.
llunn, and bridle of Georgi "ruett, ofCar-. l.n.
Ihe vallainous 1 windier tl at we are about to
point cut to the public, is a out 5 feet 8 ii;c! «r
high, of a rudy c&mpltxion, corpulent, a'rotic 45
years cf age, femewkat grey; lie c-r. fpeal the Grr-'
man language; ha* loft one cf h:* fore teeth We
llvinV vhit ought to be pu u liJh.d altaverjtfie Unite 1
States, for the good of its inhabitant a,. s all ere m
dangir from of f.uh f-Mnoltr., «rd lit
- printers are defiled tj publi(h th cfame.
f WAUN..R HJfFl.lJ},
DAMIEf. Mil fit.lN;
JONATHAN HUNK,
v Camden, loth mo. 4h, 1798. jft' • "* " J e(
PROPOSALS, lb,
BY THE ' ! n
Insurance Company of North America.!
For Insdramci against Fia», on Dwelling- 1 f
Houses, Ware-Hcufcs, and other Buildings (and • "
on Goods contained in such Buildings) difiant from j P
Philadelphia, ill the United States. I 11
d
I. Common lufurance*, on hazards of the firft 1 (
class, will be undertaken at a premium of ahout p
hali per cent. per annum. For'extra hazardous ' t
rifq»es a larger prrrrinm will be required, which o
will vaiy according to circunftances, fcidom ex- j d
teeding one per cent, per annum ; but in some i-n- c
fiances, where the property insured is not only in
itfelf extra hazardous, but rendered still more so t
by the vicinity of extra hazardous buildings and j
occupations, the premium demanded be railed f
according to rircumftanc&s.
Houses and Ware-Hc,ufes, the vails and pcrti- t
tions of which arc wholly »f ft one or brick, well
conftru&ed, so as t» be guarded as well as may be
against fires from within, and tree from extra ha
zardous buildings and occupations in their neigh-
borhood, will be deemed hazardous of the firft
class, and may be insured to their full value.
Also Good* and Merchandize, not o! an extra _
hj7n r dcus kind, in calks, bales, or packages, 4e-
Ktpofitcd in such buildings, to an ameunt not ex
ceeding 4000 dollars ; bat if more than thisfum 1
■Required to be insured in one tenement, an sjdic
TWR<wal premium will be required, in proportion to t
circumllances.
11. Insurances will also be made on buildings and J
good* extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned (
to thri risque. But it is not e:.fy to arrange these (
under particular heads cr classes, so as to describe f
each with the necessary accuracy. Bach cat- niuft
therefore be decided upop according to thecireum- r
fiances a tending it ; and these circumstances wili, a
in general, appear from the description accotnpa- f
uymg t'eapplication. a
Buildings partly conftrucled of brick or stone, f
are preferable to thofo wholly wooden. And in
both cases, the stile of buiWin~, how they are oc- i
cupied, how they are fitunted, the neighboring a
buildings, and how occupied, arc considerations to a
be taken into view. And with refpeA t# goods, -
their tendency, whether from their nature, or r
from the rnanoer in which they are exposed, c ther t
to commence or to increase an accidental fire, and i
tlicir liability in such state to receive damage by i
wet, or by sudden and hasty removal, or to be fto- 1
len iu time of confufion and hufry, are all cir- c
cumft&nces of weight; and the premiums mutt be 1
proportioned accordingly. i
HI. The fallowing conditiont are to be under- ,
flood hy the parlies. ' t
:f:. The Insurance is not binding till the ftipu
latsjpremium belaid ; but it (hall be deemed ef- i
fedlual from the time of such payment and accep- 1
'.••dice thereof, whether the policy be immediately c
finned or not.
ad. Infurincts may be renewed at the expira- <
tion of the term of the policy, without further ex- 1
petlfes than the payment of the premium of the re
newed term, the circumstances continuing the fame t
as they were underilood by the Infurtrs at the time J
the former insurance was made ; but the payment c
of the premium is eflential to such renewal; and I
it the party insured fuffers any time to elapfc after j
the expiration ef the former insurance, before he
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured j
during such time ; nor can the insurance be renew- c
eel on the former policy but by computing the t
conimtr.ceir.ent of the renewal from the expiration c
of the former insurance. The lubjedl of ihfur- j
a'ice may nc'.erthclcls be open to treaty for a new (
insurance. \
jd. If spy other insurance he made on the fame 1
property ; itmuft be made known at the time of (
application, otherwise the policy made on such ap
plication will be void. i
jth Goods held in trust, or on consignment, i
ray be insured as such in a separate policy; but t
th\> are not Wbe'cohljderefi Ss irifufed vtheraafe. j
Jth, This cotnpany will not liahiu or aeceun- <
tabk'for any loss or damage occafiorvrd by any for- r
invafion, or ty any military or usurped force
or hy pc.,fon of any ci\il commotion ; oroccafion, t
eel. by gunpowder, aquafortis dr other thing of th» c
like kind kept in the building, or amonglt the pro
perty insured. t
fcln. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu
rities Title Deads, Money. Bank and other pro- c
mifiory Notes, are not included in any insurance ; f
nor are paißtings, medals, jewels, gems, antique
curio'itios, or mirrors exceeding the value of twen
ty-live dollars-each, to be considered as insured une i
less particularly mentioned and by special agree
ment.
Jsh. No insurance will be made foraftorter
term than one year, nor for a longer term than fe- ~
yeii years. Persons chooling to insure fbr seven
years fnall b eallowed one year's premium by way
of difeount: One third of a years premium fliall
be abated in like manner on an insurance for
tfcree years.
Bth. Losses fuftainedby fireon property insured, r
lhallbe paid in thirty days after due proof and li- j
■quidation thereof, without deehi&ion.
A defci iption of the property to be infurod will a
he expected with each application, to be made by £
a mailer carpenter and signed by him, as well as
hy the owner of the building oi applicant for in
furar.ee, and attested before a Notary or principal j
Magistrate, who will certify his knowledge of the
parties and Jieir credibility.
With relpeiSl to Houfe9 and other Buildings,
jft. The site and position; defcribiag the j
■firm or road on or near which the building ,
italics; its contiguity to water, and other cir- (
cumftances relative to the extinguifhinent Ci fire
in cafe of accident; and particularly whether t
any and what fire companies are eftabliihed, and 1
engines provided> in the place or neighbourhood. ]
zd. The materials of which it is built, whe
ther of briek, stone or wood, and what part of
eath, as well as to the outlide walls as inside or
paitition walls, and their refpeflive height and
thfekneft ; ihe style of the roof and of what
materials; howfecured by battlements or par
tj; \\a" 3 » what kind of acccfs to the top of the '
house andtp the ch'imnies ; whether any and
what eleftric rods ; the number and kind of .
fire places ; and the kind of deposit for alhes.
3d. Ihe dimensions of the building and how
divided, and the style in whiph it is finilhed so
as to enable indifferent persons to judge in what
nunncrit is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury ; the age and condition of the building,
and how occupied, whether merely a 9 a dwel
ling house, or for any other, and for what pur
pole ; also an estimate of the value of thehoule
or building independent of the ground.
4th. The fituatiorf withrefpe<S to other build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at leall one hundred feet
each way : what kind of buildings are within
that distance, how built, of what materials, and
bow occupied or improved, whether as dwel
ling! for private families or otherwise: whe
ther any and what trade or manufactory is car
ried on, and particularly whether there be any
».-.Tirrlous articles used, or usually.depo
sited in the house, or within the distance afore
faid, and of What kind.
ltefpedlinggoods in Houses, Warehouses, &c.
1. A fciieiai description of the building in
which they arc kept will be expedlcd, similar in
all relpeisis,as to the danger from fiir, with that
required for Insurance on the buildings them
ft'.vpn.
j, A defcripticn of the kinds and nature of
the good», whether in casts or other packages,
or opened ; and whether displayed in whole
pitcci cr in tli« ulu»l form for retailing. And
I' if the goods rsry materially in kind, a general
eliimare oftht value of each kind propefet! to
be insured ; but in the last particular minute-
J ness of description is not expelled.
• 3. Articles of the following kinds are deem
!ed e \tra hazardous, though in various degrees,
in "vhatever baiUing they may be placed, viz. c
j j pitr h, tar,turpentine, rolin, wax, tallow, oil, 1
1 inflammable spirits, sulphur, hemp, flax, cotton, '
1 dry goods of an inflammable kind open'ed.—
t J Glass, china ware or porcelain, especially un- (
: packed; Looking glarfcs, jewelery ; and alio- (
5 ' ther articles mors than commonly inflammable, j
1 or more than commonly liable to injury by fud- ]
- den removal) or by moiflures, or particularly
- obnoxious to theft on an alarm of fire.
1 Letters post paid, direitod to the Secretary of
' the Board of DireiSors, will be duly attended
' to. An order for Insurance accompanied by the
means of payirig the premium, will be imme
diately tkepremium being paid. If
J the application contain an enquiry only, it will
be.anl'wereil.
By order of the Board,
EBEnezer hazard, Stc'ry.
j Office of the Infurapce Company o/"Nortii )
Americi ; Philcd. Feb. 1, 5798. )
a Feb. 14. ialmtf
I Mills, Portage, &:c.
1 TO BE LEASED FOR A TERM OF TEARS.
0 ' I 'O be leafed, for a term not lcf» than three,
1 nor more than seven years, a V ALUABLE
PROPERTY at the Sencca-Falls, in the county of
Onondago, a nd Hate of New-York, on the Banks
e of the Seneca-river, two miles wetlof thg Cayuga
c ferry, and eleven miles east ot Geneva.
This eftablithment confiSs of an excellent grift
• mill, saw mill, dwelling houfc, bam, and a port
'> age or carrying place, with between thirty and
■ forty acres of land, under good improvement, and
as much more in the vicinity, as may be required
: > for futHre improvement.
n The grid mill is a handsome, new and well fin
- iflied building, of 50 b> 30 feet, 3 stories high
J and furuithed with a run of escellent'Burr ftoues '
0 and another of Efopus' stones, of the bell quality
'> —and the most approved boalts, Sic. ralcnlr.ted to
r make all the different qualities of flour for expor
r tation or for home coufuniption : Itis acceffiblc by
d water from every part of thcCayuga lake ami Se-
Y neca-river, as well as from the Seneca-lake—and
- fromite fituatiou, commands a veryextenfive and
- encreaiicg cnflota The Dream on which it stands,
e being the outlet of the Seneca-lake, the mill cau
never Vc in want of water- \ and as it has b«en kept
werkiojjdirting the severest Teafor: of thelaltwin- '
ter, it is not liable to be impeded by froft :
The saw mill is also new, fituateii on the fame
- flrcam, now furniflied with an ampla stock of
" log*, of which a fupoly may at all times be pro
y cured by lan 4or water, of th<? bell quality :
!'he dwelling house is well calculated for the use
" of the miller, u new, and fufficinntly latge : The
- barn is about 40 feet fquars, and entirely new :
The portage is 3-4thsof a mile in length, along
e the Sen'ica-faiis—over which were passed in tlio
e la* year, nearly two hundred boats with their
t contents ; this objefi is already pr.oduftive of a
a handsome income, which must be increasing and
r permanent:
e Among the tnanv advantages of thisfituation,
J must be numbered the fertility of thefunaunding
- country —being the best improved part of the coun
e ty of Onondaga-r-th« concentration of inter
a course by land and water, the GenefTee ftateroad
- palling through it, as well as all water carriage to
v Geneva, and the couijties of Ontario and Steuben ;
which renders it a most eligible stand for a Store or
e Tavern—The river and lakes abound in fiih and
f fowl, end the country with dc. r and other game.
Besides the mills aLready ei .-eied at this place, it
is calculated for any additional water works that
:, maybe found- neceflfary—Fulling mill, baik miii
t tannery, forgos, &c. maybe ere&ed at a fmail ex-,
pence—lron ore may be bronght in boats from the
- Cayuga lake ; and it is thought to abound in the
- neighkoduMKl,
■i he stock on hand w-li be fold to the ltffee, and
, the cattle, utensils, smith's forge, See. may be fold
* or let the premises.
If apurchafe should offer so the whole or an
undivided part of the premises it willbe fold.
F«r ten* of sale or lease, apply to mr. Wil
- HitLMusMrNDERSs, at the Seccca falls, or to the
; fubferiber, at Schene&ady.
e STEPHEN N. BAYARD.
- june t_; iaw2m
Federal Mills,
A DJOINiNG Georgetown, and the City of
r xX Wafnington, willbe offered at Puhlic Sale,
on the 10th day of September next, at the Union
1 Tavern, if not previously fold at Private sale.
1 Those mills in point of Ctuationfor bufinefsand
na'ural advantages are generally admitted to be
r eqsal to any in America. The Merchant Mill is
. a jarge brirk house, eighty feet by fifty, almost
' new, in which are ercfled four pair of Burr mill
fton«6 with elevators, hopperboys and bolting
. cloths, completely finiflied and conilrudled in such
a manner that the whole of the mills may manti-
failure flour at the fame time. The country "mill
5 which is cre&ed near the otlier, is entirely new,
" a strong stone building, containing one pair of
1 stones, and built in such a manner that the record
e pair may be put up with little cxpence. Thismiil
is conveniently finrlhed, and calculated to carry on
eitenfively, country work, of which it gets a con
e ftant supply. There is belonging to the said mills
E 174 acres of land, the whole of which will be
" fold with the mills.
e One third of the purchase money will be requir-'
i' ed in sixty days from the day of sale, and fjr the
tl balance a liberal credit will be givin. Further
1. particulars willbe made known on the day of sale.
JOSEPH E. ROWLES,
if Surviving partner of
r JOSEPH E. ROWLES Go.
d Georgetown, july 13. vv—3»wts
LANDING,
e At South Street wharf, the cargo of the IhipCoa
neflicut, from Batavia—
,f About 300 tons of Java Coffee,
of thegtowth of I7t)4and 179J
" 0 Go tons of Java Sugar,
lt Incannifiers—for sale by
)f FETEX BLIGHT,
WHO ALSO OFFESS FUR SALI,
150 hhds. choice Jamaica Sugars
Jamaica rum in hhds
Brandy ift and 4[h proof in pipes, hhds.
Ie and quarter calks
Madeira in pipes
Old Batavia Arrack
,r july 1 5
: n c " FOR SALE,
I A FARM on the road leading to State Island,
. jCJI within four and.an halfiniic* of Philadelphia,
containing 45 acres in the highest Hate of cultivation
e " —2saeres of which is meadow, the remainder up
r" land. I here areon the premise«, a new frame Hbufe
y and Barn, with an excellent kilchen garden, contain
-- ing a e'eat number of frit Trees.—lmmediate poffef
fi»n will be given.
For terms apply to
Thomas W. Francis,
n julyiS- No. 98South Tbi'd llrect/
" To be Let,
An airy three Story Brick House,
if AN the South fide of Filbert Street, betwesn
v 7 Eighth and Ninth street, formerly Occupied
e ' as the Surveyor General's Office-—Enquire at No.
' augaftlo . eo j t
/
I DUTY on CARRIAGES,
Notice is hereby given,
"PHAT agreeably to an as.i of Coujrrels of the
.A. United States of America, prided at Pukt- (
u delphia the aßth day of May, 1796, laying du- J t
ties o!*wriagc« for the conveyance of pcrf>ns, and ; {
repealing the former ails for that purpefe-»—That i r
_ there (hall be leried, colledled and paid, upon ail (
carn<g&> for the of'perfop.s, which ! .
shall Ve kept by or for any person, for his or her ,
owti uie, or to Ist out to hire, or for the convey- ,
ing of pafiengers, tke several duties and ratesf®i
lowing, vit. dolls. *
y For and upon every coach i's »
upon every chariot iz 1
3 * upon every post chariot II t
upon every ppft chaise 12
•e uponivcryph'Eton, wither without top 9
-- upon every cuachee 9
If upon other carriages, having
II work aliove, with blinds, glafics, y 9
or currains j
upon four-wheel carriage*, having')
frame posts and tops, with heel > 6
-fpriugs j
upon four-wheel top carriages, with
wooden or iron springs on jacks J" 1
upon ciirricles with tops 3
up<?n cftaifei with tops 3
upon chair? with tops 3
uponfulkies with t«ps 3
upon other two wheel top carriages 3
e» upon two wheel carriages wkh fleel")
E or iron springs 3
of For and upon all other two wheel carriages %
ks upon every soar wheeled carriage, "J
a- having framed posts and tops. C 2
and resting upon wooden fpara j
ft The ColleAor tf the revenue of the {irftciivifion
t of the firft survey of the diftrid of Pennsylvania,
d will attend daily until the 30th day of September
id nezt, for the purpofc of receiving the duties on
:d carriages, at Germantown, cn the Main street, a
little above the (igo of the King of Pruflia, of
1 which all persons pollefled of fiach carriages are
h desired to take notice.
es Notice is also given,
'J Q To all retail dealers in wines and foreign distilled
' fpicituous liquors, that licenses will be granted to
them ; one litcnce for carrying on the bufir.efs of
./ retailing of witusiin a lets quantity, or in less
uanlities, than 30 gallon'—and one lieenre for
i J arrying on the business us retailing spirituous li-
I tjuors in I<-Ts quantities than twenty gallons, at the
' Tame time and at the fame place, by
' JA MES ASII,
jj ColleiSlor of the Ift divlfion of the ill
Survey of thediftri.3 cf Pennsylvania.
le Office of InfpeiSlian at Germantown, ">
of .. zli A, 'g u st» 1793. J
o _ <J" Every denomination of Stamps to be had
at said ollice.
f c ' & The Stamp Press is removed
ie to the Office of Infr>gsion in Germantown, on the
Mais >: reet, a little above the f;ga of the King of
ig Pruffia,-»where attendance will be given fertile
1a accommodation oi thqle \vho wish any inftrnmcnts
ir ilampcd, on Tuesday*, Thursdays and fcaturdeys.
a ugu-ta 27,
id —— i
n For Sale at Public Auction,
' ON THE PREMISES,
tl _ "T'OIIRLOTS on Harper and Keith's wharf, in
r . -I- Alexandria, on tbs a6th day of O&ober
id ntxt ' I,ot at private sale before that time,
to *-' ne 'hefe lots is near the end of the wharf,
; . twenty feet beyond which the water is two fathsins
01 ! deep, about forty feet ifut three fathoms fifty feet
1( j out the \yatsr is four fathoms, and grows deeper
e until it come* to the channel, whi eh is about fev
er,ty sept from the end of the wha; t. There
3t as much dirt belonging to the bank as will level
ill tfe wharf, which tiiay r,-ant railing about a foot j
j. near the end. There is in this fa!e an half acfe lot
he »c>"y fit for a tavern ; it ii wall wsterexL afidan e-x
---cellent Hand lor chat business. This property will
be fold for ready money, and altogether or fepar
-1(j ate, ak may best suit the purchaser ;it lays 011 the
[j lower fide of Alexandria, which is now improving
very fad. Atk .tchof the ground may ba f»en in
ln the hinds of the Priater hereof. For terms at
private sale, apyly to Wm. Hartshorne, or to
L . the fubferiber, inAlexandrta.
(, e JOHN HARPER.
September 3 lawßw
Wants Umploy merit,
A YOUNG MAN, who hasferved a regii-
XX l.ir apprenticeship to the mercantile busi
ness in this city, wishes ts engage in a Couuting
0 houi'e or office, write 3 a good hand and under-
e ' (lands accounts, can be well recommended ar.d
' n fccurity given if required. Enquire at the
j( j office of this Gazette.
' e j""g ii . 3»wtf
|f Baikenridge—for sale
'j TT consists of 9-40 acres, almost all of which is
X a fine rich Meadow, (the rcfidenceef the late
E«rl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, fourof which are bounded on the
East by the river Pafaick.
Th«rr are on it a number of buildings, forming
' afquare of nearly three acres—The dwelling house
° is a very convenientone.andjafmallcxpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard consists of t^oofinibcarir.j ertgraf
,n ed Apple Trees—and there is on other parts of said
"* trail near 300 other Apple Tree.—as also a great
, 3 variety of other fruits,partioilarly Carries of the
e best aai siolt delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
r " Forest Taeas, that add to tbs beauty and eonreni
-10 ence of the place. Ite situation is about ;8 miles
* r from tbe towns of Newark and Elizabeth :10 do.
e " frem Morris-Town, and 11 from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
iacafh, on delivery of the deed.. Pleale to »n
---_ quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chefnut treet.
cbxiary 1. eodtf
Patent Ploughs,
' I 'O be fold for ca(h by JoXt-ph Salter at Atfior.
X Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry—Jonathan
Harker, Woodbury—and JefTe Evans, Lumber
ten, Thr.fe who have used them give thrm the
preference to any other kind, as they lequire
less team, bream the ground better, are kept in
eirder at lei's cxpenee and are fold at ajcheaper
rate—the plan is much fimplified and conlifUof
Js. but one piece of call iron, with the handlej and
beam of wood ; they may befixed with wrought
layst and coulters to be put on with screws ajid
taken off at
_ Patent rights for fending with inftruflions for
making them may he )ud by applying to John
id, Newbold, or the fubferiber No. 2i» North
ia, Front-flreet.
Who has for Sale;
j? e Or to Lease for a term of Tears,
n _ A number of valuable trafts of Land, well
• c f. situated far Mills, Jron iVorksor Farms, moft
| ly iropraved, lying chifflv in the county of Hun
tingdon slate of Pennsylvania. Thole who may
incline to view them will please to apply to
r John Canan esq. near Huntingdon.
Claries Ncwlold.
ju'y «7 . lawtf
FOR SALE,
:«n ' BY THE SUBSCRIBERS, NO. XLKV £N T H-ST RFE T, ;
* o d 18 Bags Fresh Cloves.
Wiliings 1$ Francis.
June «g. - dtf
AX ACT
~ir the relief of th: Refugees frial the antifh
pr u and Noi'.i-Scotia.
BE I evaded by the Senate and Houje
o] IU-pre/entati-vfS of the United
: States if Ameicay in Congress ajembled, 1 at
\t j fatiitv ihe cliials yf certain .pci'loas claiming At
! lands V ntler tberi|Wuti«!M «rf CoOgrefe, ot the
1 twerivy-tbird of April, one thcufand leven hun
; ilred and eiglm-three, :r.d the thirteenth of
1 Apri}, one t;iotfand seven hundred and e , 11 '"
five, at reflect from the E.itiHi provinces ot .
Canada and Novi-Scotia, the Secretary for the
Department of Var, be, and is hereby autho
: ized ar.d direilcJ to give notice in one or more
' of the (Hiblic P4>trs of each ot the States ot
| Vermont, Mtflichuletts, Ni>w-\ork, New-
Hjnriplhire and T'ennlyivania, to all perlons b-.v
---ing chinis ,wk r ,f»>4 refoljiti°Bt»» to ' r a n >*
mit to tlte within two .years ; ;ter
the p;:sing of this r.cO,' a full and true account
of thei? piairm to tie bounty iff Coagrt!?.
Sec. 2. Atul he it further enabled, i hat no _
other persons (hall be entitled to the benefit or the 'j 1
provifions»f this s>sl, thanthofeef the [low
ing (Jelfcriptions, or their widows ar.d heirs, viz.
First, thqfe heads of families, and single per-
j foil *, not members ot ar.y tuc!> families, who
| were residents in one of the provinces aiorefaid, ((
prior to" the fourth day of jQ'y> one tliouland «
seven hundred and seventy-six, and who aban- , i<
doned their fetilemcnts, in co iieq'ience of j,
ing given aid to the United Colonies or States,
in the revolutionary War asaijil Grcal Britain, Ci
or with intentio.i fuch aid, and qoptmu- £1
ed in the United States, or in their service, dur- fe
ing the said war, .and did not return to reOde in Ju
the dominions of the king of Great-Britain, hti
pr'wr to the twenty-fifth of November, cne
tlioufihd seven hundred and eighty-three. Se- jjj l
condly, the widows and heirs of all such per
lons as were a6lual residents, as aforefaid, who
abandoned thtir ftttlements, as jfojcfaid, and
died within the United States, or i» their ler-
vice during the said war : andthudfy, all per
fens wl»o were members of families at the time
of their coming into the United Stales, and who
during the war, entered into their service. ( j.
Sec. 3. And ts it further enabled, That the £.
pro»>f of the several circum'Vances ntceffa r y to c v
entitle tlie applicants to the benefits of this ail,
may be taken before a judge of the supreme c.r p.
diftriiSt court of the United States, or a judge j, ;
of the fupreit Isr superior towrt, cr the full jB. fV f u
rice or fii ft j-.iUge of'the court of cowinion pleus so
or county t-ourt of any State. ir
Sec. 4. And be it further enabled, That at \ h
rhe expiration of fifteen mont)!» from and after St
the passing of tKs afl, and from time to time fu
thareafter, it ftiall be the duty of the Secretary b<
for the Department ot War, to lay such evi
dence of claims as he may have received, before
the Secretary and Comptroller ot the Trcaftiry,
and with them, proceed to examine the testi
mony, Jnd give their judgment what quantity
of land oueht to be allowed to the individual 1
claimants, in proportion to the degree of their -*
refpeiJlive services, facrifices and lufferings,
consequence of their attachment to the caute of
the United States ; allowing to these of the firft
ciufs a quantfty not exceeding one thottfandacres; u
and to the lalt class, a quantity not exceeding "
one hundred, making luch intermediate clalTes 01
34 the rtfolutions aforefaid, and diilributive jus
tice, may, in their judgment require, snd
report thereof, to Congress. And in cafe any
fut h claimant (hall have sustained such lofleS and A
fuflfcrings, or performed such services for the 1
United States, that he cannot jutlly be tlaffed
in any one general class, a fepar(te report (hall C
be made of Ms circuoiitances, together with the 1 f
quantity of land that to be allowed him, 1
having referenae so tl.ie foregoing ratio : Pro
vided, tha* in considering what compeiif-ti,»n >
QDfhtto he made by virtue of this «S, a'l grants
exfept military grants, which may ha-.e been s
made by-the United States, or ind.ivid-aa! States, 8
fliail be considered at the just value thereof, at
the time the fame were made, respectively, ei- si
ther in whole er in part, as the c*!e may be, a '
latisfaiflion to those who may have received the b
fame : Provided also, that no claim under this
law, shall be aflignable until after report made b
to Congress, as aforefaid, and until the said
lands be granted to the persons sntitied to the
benefit of this a<sl.
Sec. 5. Beit farther enured, That all claims
in virtue of laid resolutions of Congress, which
(hall not be exhibited aa aforefaid, within the
time by this a<sl limited, fiiall forever thereafter
be barred.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House sf Representatives
TH ! JEFFERSON, P
Vift-Prefidetii of the United States,
and Prefdent of the Senate. '
Approved, 7, 1798.
JOHN ADAMS, 3
Prefdent of the United States. '
Deposited among the Rolls in the office of the
Department of' State,
TIMOTHY Pickhring, j
Secretary as State. a
<
cd" Purfuaiit to tlx'' above A3, No- 1
tice is hereby given to all perfens hav- r
ing claims under the refohitions'bf Con- '
grefs, of the 23d of April, 1783, and j
the 13d! of April, 1785, to tranfmitto <
the War-Office within two years after J;
the passing of the said Aft, u/z. the 7th f
day of April, 1798, a just and trueac' j'
count of their claims to the bounty of j ,
Congress.
In the proof of Claims, a Uriel atten- t
tion mull be paid to the requilitions of [
the 2d and 3d Sections of the Aft. t
JAMES MCHENRY, '
Secretary of War.
July 19 jjaw6w
AURORA OFFICE,
October 10, 1798. •
Reports having been circulated
that THE AURORA was not to be rc-pub!ifhcd, 1
■ —The public are hereby refpe&fully informed '
i that the want of hands alone K s prjvtnted its re- '
publication several days ago ; but that fad* ar- '
, range-meDts are now making as will assure ths ao- *
ptarance of the papT in the course of the prcfent, '
or the firft week of the ftext-(Month.
' « 8t
cAurroir. _
WHEREAS a certain perfonfwindled
from me on the lirlt itift. by giving
■ mc inlieuthereof afcrged check on the Bank '
; of North America.aiioteof that date,drawn ,
| in my favour by Mr. John Travis; and pay- ,
able in fix months, for three thousand fotir i
hundred ard fifty seven dollars and forty-fi* i
cents. ALL persons .are delircd not to re
- ctive any transfer of -it, as it will not be
paid by either the drawer or endorser unless
• recovered by law.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Race Hi reet.
august 6.
This Day Publijhed,
And for sale at tlie Office of the Editor, ffc,
119 ChefiiHt-ftreet,
' (Price \-%tb of a Dollar,)
AN ORATION,
PrOHuunced July 4,1798,
At therequeft of the Inhabitants of the Town of
BOSTON, in comtncimration of the ami;-
. verfary of American Independence.
By 'Jouah QytNcr.
p " The inro*ds upon our public liberty, call
, for reparation—The wrongs we have fufhined,
call for—Justice. That Reparation and that
, Justice, may yet be obtained, by Union, Spirit,
p and Firmness • But to divide and conquer was
_ the maxim of the Devil in the garden of Ederf,
and to disunite and enslave hath been the princi
ple of all his votaries from that period to the
\ present."
t O&ser-vaiistu on the Boston Port-Bill, Isic.p. 78
by the late J. Jun.
3 august
e _ TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
June 27, j 79 g.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, That by vir
tue of an ait,, parted during the present fef
-0 fion ef Congress, so much of the ail entituled
' " An Ait making further provision for the sup-
J " port cl public credit, and for the redemption
l " 1 " of the public debt"—palled the third day of
" I March, one thousand fe\en hundred and Binety
b five, as bars from fettleijient or allowance,
Certificates, cowmouly called Loan Office and
final feitlcment Certificates, and Indents of In
■- ferefls, is fufpeuded until the twelfth day a
II June, which will be in the year one thousand (even
1, hundred and ninety ninj.
e That on the liquidation and fettlementof the
said Certificates, and Indents of Intcreft, at the
r . Trcafury, the Creditors'will be entitled to receive
0 Certificates of funded Three Per Cent.Stockcqual
j to the'amount of the said Indents, and the arrcar
._ ages of intercfl due on their said Certificates, prior
to the firO day of January one thcufand seven
hundred and ninety one.
That the principal funis of the said Loan Office
and final fettlcment Certificates, with the interest
thereon, since the.firft day ot January, one thou
e fsnd seven hundred and ninety one. will be dif
-0 clnrgi-d after liquidation at the Treasury, by the
'' payment of interest and reimburUnsent of princi
*r pal, equal to the funis which would have been
:e payable thereon, if the said Certificates had been
fubferibed, pursuant to the Ails making provision
'* for the debts of the Uuited States, contracted dur
ing the late war, and by the payment of other
it t sums, equal to the market vilue of the remaining
r Stock, which would have been created by such
K fubferiptions acaforcfaid, which market value will
y be determined by the Comptroller <;f theTreafury.
i- OLIVER WOLCOTT,
~e Secretary of the Treasury:
iiine 28 lawtf
General Poft-Office, 7 <
a! T)R-('POSALS for carrying the mails ef the
; r JL United States on the following routes will
| n be received at this affice until the 20th day of
-,f September next inclulive.
ft i. From Pittfhurg P. by Canaonfourg, Walh
i; ington, Weft-Liberty, Wheeling and Wills
,g town to Zane9 at the mouth of Licking-creek*
i- s on Ue Miifkirigum, eftiwiated J4O miles,
f, Leave Pitt/burg every Friday at 2 p. M. and
jrrive at Zaaes the next Monday by 8 P. M.
fy Returning—Leave Zanes every Tuesday at 5
a.m. and arrive at Pittfburg the next Friday by
■jg 10 A» Mi
d 2. From Zanes, at the mouth of Licking
>ll Creek on the Mufkingum, by Chilicethe and
ne , Mafiey's to Mayfville m Kentucky ; estimated
140 miles
o- Leave Zvies every T*efday at 5 A. M. and
>n arrive at M yfville the next Friday by i>o A. M.
its HMUfnilf —J/Cjye MjyfyilleLCvery Friday by
sa 2P. M. and arrive at Zanesthe next Monday by
;l , BP. M.
at The carriage of the mails to commence on the
:i- firft day of November next and continue until
a the firfl day of October 1800. Payments will I
he be ntadcquarterly.
ijs The usual penalties for delays and failures .viU
Je be stipulated in the contrail.
M • Joseph Habcrjham,
' Jt Poji-Majler General.
Philadelphia, Julv I.?, 1708. m&thCiw
r\o
, h HEALTH OFFICE.
he 1
er Philadelphia, Tfi
Extrafl «f an a*sl to alter and the Health
Laws of this Commonwealth, pafied 41b April
1 1798.
Seil. 8- A '' furt, " er e n»<sl"ed by the au
XA_ therity'aforefaid, That every house.
Seepi r withm the city of Philadelphia, the town,
ships of the Northern Liberties and
and dillriil of Southwark, within a mil® of the li
mits o! the city, tai.iog in boardersarriviag by sea
, or by hiid, from any foreign port or place, and ha
ving any bonxlijr in his or her family, who fliall be
taken ficlc of aay difi-affi whntfoever, betwicn tlie
firft day of May and the firft day of November in
nr.y year, wirhin twenty days next aftenfuch boar
der fiiall come to lodge in his or her house, shall
O- within i\ hours next after the knowledge of such
sickness. make report at lhe Health-Office of the
name of such sick person, the time of his or her ar
il.- rival at the house and of hisor her being taken sick
lt J and of the na me and place of abode of such houfe
kcep r; whereupon the Phyiician of the'Health
tO Office tball forthwith visit the patient, and report
er to the office his opinion of the nature of such dif
cafs, that nieafures may be taken to prevent the
th (pleading of tho iufe&ion ; and if any housekeeper
, c . 0,311 ncgleil to give information in the manner and.
within the time aforcfaid, ar.d fliall he therfeqfton-
Of v'iited, in any court of criminal jurts.Ji&rtS wit:,in
this Commonwealth uporit»ilidfiii..t by vcrdid
or confc-ffion, he or (he ASTTforfeit and pay a fine
n- to the life of the said hofbital, not less than twenty
Q f dollars, nor more than one hundred dollars, to be
itnpofsd at the discretion of the court, according to
tlie circumflances of greater or less aggravation at
tending each particular cafe.
By order of the Board of Health,
WM . AI.LE N, Health Office,
_ liiWjm of the Port ot PhiladelniKa.
i he Public are hereby informed,
r ! "'HAT 1 did not mean to authorise Col. Wll-
A ,Nichols to declare, that I would not pav,
:d, un CiS recovered by law, my note alluded'to 1:1
ied caution of tfee 6th of Augoll, pabliffied in the Gi
re- zctte United States of lad evening, I fin
ar cerely lament his lois, and t*ld him I would do
all I could do"confidently with my credit to serve.
N t him, hut went no further. ■'
JOHN TRAVIS.
. a " Tust 7
' 1 'oils for bouib-Carylina iff Gcor^ia^
led D"CKETS'irenow provided for carrying the'
ng . water between
nk and r Ch / rl f«°«- They will leave Philadelphia
wn °!i F' ay y ,and wi!i be continn
tvvice a «'"il experiment m made in
iy- regard to the expedition and reeulan'ty of tbe
idr packets. If any person chnTcs to have their
fix letters sent by land only, they will pleale to
re- wr ' te tfle word Land upon the letters : other
fec v !ff sent b y that conveyance which
-fs W „ I" start after tlle letters are left ia the
poU-effice.
fofeph Haberfljavi,
P"JI- Majter- Gemerl.
F".'iiadehhiti, Aup'f. ij, 1798. £