as tijc a ND Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
NuMB£R 1752.J
Far Charleston,
THE BRI °
iELIZA,
[jgj* W. B. Vaugha®, master ;
(launch, fad failing vefTel, with good
£\ accommodations fi>r paflVngers; to fail in 6
4ays. For Freight or Paffaga, apply to the Cap
tain on board, at Marria'a wharf, just above the
Dnwbrktge, or to
Peter Kuhn.
afril 1%. ss*
For Boston,
iTB&S&y THE rxsr SAILING B*I«
ORLANDO;
Pr,n "i majkr,
Willfaiion 1 uefiiy next For V* igkt apply"
to tkc oiafter oa board, at Cheihut street wharf.
April iS- *s [ .
For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
iqj rafks of nails iflbrteil
io rules of fail canvass, from No. I to 8
j 3 calks yellow ochre
i s tierces bottlfed porter, 6 to 14 doz- each
London particular ) M|(kirl W ines
India market i
Teneriffcdo. in hoglheads and pipea
Old Port do. in hhds.
Empty Claret battles
6 cases of Ginghams, D'mities, Muflinetj &c.
afTorted for the Weft India market
4, 10. and Q inch cablcsand 10 coils of cordage
Writing fiatcs, ir.k ft.inds and prefles
aopurcheons Jamjica rum
I hale seaming twine
160 bundles fheatiing paper
THE BRIO
a m a z 0 N '
For Sale, or Charter.
Nicklin & Griffith.
April 7 tuth&f.tf
FOR - SALE.
\Vjdo* e bTow'n} Havannah Sugar
joo Hides
Will be landed to morrow, at Willing*and Fran
cises wharf, from on board the brig A&iire, Will
-sam Williams, master.
faid Brigforfale,
And may take in immedi-
Apply to
Jehu Hollingfworth & Co.
march 30. ' S
For Hamburgh,
THE SHIP
Dominick Terry,
reiser J°^ n Fleming, Majier,
great partoi her cargoen
g-aged.—-For freight apply to
JeJfe & Robert Wain.
February S
For Sale or Charter,
m, GOODHOPE
Willcarry about 1 zoo barrels, and
j»ready totake in a cargo. For terms
t<» „ _, _
Pragers cjf Co.
No. 151, South Second-street.
"Who have for sale—prime St Croix Sugar
and Rum, Madera, Lisbon, and Teneriflfe win#.
November 7/ dtf
Manchester Goocfs.
Received by the latest srr?vals from Liverpool, se
veral trunks, suitable for the prcfent and ap
proaching faufon, which will be fold very
low for cafli or on a Ibort credit, viz.
7-8 and 9-8 Printed Calicoes
fancy VVaiflcoating in Mars illes, &c.
Cotton and Glkand cotton Hoficry, Pantaloons,
&c.
A variety of (English) Umbrellas -
Nankeen*, cotton Hhlcfs. Shoe binding, Set.
N. 3. A cafe of printed Muflmets, and a trunk
vf Pullicat Bangalore Han<tk-rchirf«, entitled to
drawback, and very fuitaMfl for the Weft-Indies.
Apply No. 3S South Watts and corner of Clef
nutflreet. 4m0.11 —$iw
~ porrwißE;
In pipes, hogsheads and quarter casks,
or A SUPERIOR qyALITY,
Just imported, in the Henrietta, P.P. Schmidt,
master, from Oporto,
ALSO, O* BJND,
joo bbls. New-York and Boston Beef
Qaeetis* Ware in crate#
Blankets in bales
Guns assorted in cafo*, Cutlasses, Swords, See.
For *aleby
THOMAS JOHN KETLAND.
Walnut street wharf,
april IT. Ict
i To be Let,
VAn<J given on the Ift of May)
A genteel three story brick House,
12 front, a«d 40 feet deep, with back buHd»ngs
and ftib!e*,at present ill the'tenure cf Major Jack
son. Hnqaire at 187 South Third fttect.
2. §
Joseph Ricardo,
OF thh CKy, Merchant, has uOigned his pro
perty for the bene6t of fci. Creditors, to James
C. Fijher, Samuel W. Filher, and Thomas Wllfon.
All perions who have demands are re
qnefted to furnilh their accounts without delay—
and those indebted to make immediate payment to
the Subfcribrrs, afting AfTtjrnecs.
'James C. & Samuel W. Fisher.
No. 13, Arch Street.
march 31 4'awrf
notice;.
THREE CerttiUateaof Six Per Cent. Deferred
Debt of the Unitad States ol the fallowirg
description, vii—N*. 10033, 10034, and 16035,
for 5000 dollarsaach, dated 8A May, 1797, and
i»an-iogon rile book* «f theTreafury of the Uni
ttd (hates, iu nam. of Benjamin Waddington,
«f I joover FlouCe.near \btrga-venpey in England,
Esq. have been loft by the capture ol the ship Uac
<bu». from hence to Loftdbr.i'n June U(t.—This,
therrfore notifies those whom it may concern, that
af>f licalion will be made at the l'reafury of the U
ii.ted States for a renewal of the fame.
Wadditigt** Harwood.
•urch a» fcftw
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, APRIL 21, 1798.
The Subfcribfers,
Are at WilKng's wharf, from on bo*tr«l
of the (hip Elizabeth, Captain Pcaflee, from Ba
tavia,
400,000 lbs. of best Java Coffee,
29a Canisters of Sugar
A few tona of Sapan wood
FOR IALt
Philips, Cramond & Co
april 16 1W
BRAND T.
The Cargo of the Danish Brig Concord,
FROM CBTTE,
Will commence landing this day, at Smith's ftreit
wharf-
SSr.rK"'} Choice Brandy
Proveuce whife Wine, in pipea
Hazienuts and Filberts, in sacks
A few Almonds, Raifras, &c.
For Sale by
Peter Blight.
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SALI,
200,000 lbs. Java Coffee, in sacks
Old Batavia Arrack, in pipes
Mace and Cloves, in boxes
120 hhds. Jamaica Sugar
50 do. do. Rurn
Port Win*', in pipes, hhds. and cjr. casks
Madeira, London particular, in pipes, very
superior
april 13. d2weotl7M
J NOW LANDING,
From on boaid the fchr. Charlotte from Boston,
30 chests Bohea
30 do. Hyson > TEAS
36 do. Souchong j
And from on board the f.hooner Favoiirite from
Ki hmoitd ( Vir.)
648 bWs. fuperfine ) FLQUR
66 do. fine )
And also a quantity of WHEAT
For Sale on reafonnbie terms, by
GEORGE PLUMSTED,
No. 166, South Front street.
April % 3aw2w
Landing at Wain's wharf,
From on board the brig Entcrprize, capt. Lang
don, from Jamaica.
60hogfheadsof good SUGAR, and"> Entitled to
6o,ocowt. of prime green COFFEE j drawback.
And For Sale by
WHARTON fcf LEWIS,
i-'o 115, South Front street.
Who have liletvife for Jale,
"A quantity of 4th p.o.f Jamaica Rum
Molaifes, and
70 barrels of Tanners' Oil
april 14. eoiot
FRESH TE'AS.
MR. CHALK,
INFORMS his Friends and the Public, that he
has opened a
TEA WAREHOUSE
At his Circulating Library, No. 75 North Third
street, where he will be happy to execute their
Orders for fine-flavoured
IMPERIAL, HYSON, •)
"YOUNG HYiON, ( TVA<i
HYSON-SKI?f ( r 3 '
SOUCHONG & BOHEA J
On moderate terms.
Coffje, Chocolate and Loaf Sugar,
april I;. m&ftf
Notice is hereby Given,
TH AT application has been made at the Bank of
the United States, for the renewal of the fol
lowing five Certificates of Bank Stock, loft by the
capture of the British Packet, Coantcfs of Lcictf
ter—viz.
No.£7oß, containing 5 Ibares") Ifiucd to Henry Ca
-3703 5 do > zenove Nephew&.Co
73a I do. issued to Edwerds
and Co
3188 5 do. issued (in lien of
6509 to 6513) to Samuel ami Henry .Vaddington.
tpzS 4 do. issued to Phyn, El
lice and fnglis.
All person» concerned are therefore called upon
, to (hew cause why new Certificates (hould not be
issued agreeably to the said application.
April 14 ec6w
Imported in the ship America,
AND TOR SAL*, BY
G. G. SCHULTHESS,
At MelTrf. Jos. Anthon* Co's. Store,
30 bags heavy black Pepper
Book Muslin I-4 and 1-2 yard wide
Check Hhkfs. romal Hhkfs.
Blue Percales and blnfc Socrotion
One bale blae Clotb 24 punj.
Vitepaleon Hhkfs.. 18 ind 26 punj.
One bale ftetilhas—alfo,
. Four bbls-. Sago
' Efght logs £bony
A f«w boards Sattinwood
april 11
A Great Bargain.
FOR S4LE ON POTOMAC,
In the State of Virginia, and countj of Northum
berland,
AS beautiful a Scat as any on the River, con
taining between seven and eight hundred a
crei of Land, which commands a molt delightful
1 profped of Coan Rivet, Potomac and the Bay
' about a third part of whiil} is low grounds, sur
rounded with Fife, Oyfleri, and Wi'd Fowl, with
a good harbor, and as convenient for trade and in
formation as any on the lower part of the river,
and liesfo compact, that about two miles of fenc
ing wauld inclofc the whole from river no river.
I'he Hon. Walter Jones, Esq. now in Congrcf,,
' lives within a few miles of the plaee,—who wHI
• fie me the iavor to ddcribe it, and make my terms
- known to any gentleman inclining to rurchaje.
HUDSON MUSE.
> Virginia, Urbanna, march 15. a ll—co3t
Canal Lottery —No. if.
- VT 7"ILL commence drawing Monday, the aoth
W inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery,,at
. Seven Dollars, at WM. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Broker* Office, No. 64, South Sccond-ftreet—
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at T**
J Dollars, where check books are kept lor
ing and examining in these, the City of Waflung
ton, No. 11.and Pattvrfon Lotteries, and informa
' tion where tickets may be had in moll of the Lotte
' ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
' N. B. The befinefsof a Broker, inbuyingand
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcoftfttint; Bills and Note* of Hand, sale of
.Lands, House*, ut.c. See. will be duly attended to,
by Wto. BLACKBURN.
November 15. §
I |L •« 0
By John Fenno, N°* 119 Chejnut Street.
To be Sold by Au&ion, at the Cof
fce-Houfe, at 6 o'clock, on the id May
next,
A NOTE drawn by Michael Kraft, of the
Cuftom-Htafe, payable t« William Love,
chair-maker, i ?o, North Front street, for 250
dollars, dated the ,?sth lune J 797, due the «d of
Aug. but negle&cd to bi? presented or protested
till the lßih Aiiguft by the Bank of Pennsylva
nia, for which ihe B<nk will become liable, if a
jury independent of Banks can be found,
april 13. *6t -
TO~THE pubuc.
IT appears evident, that the purport of Mr. William
Priejlman s advcrtljtno my Note fur sale at the Mer
chants' Coffee house, *n lit firfl of Msy next, is done
merely fur the pnrpof* of injitfing my character, —it re
mains only for me to convince the wrldytkat my infenlions
, to discharge the fam> % are truly honorable and j u s» A
bout ten days after ijjuing said note to Mr. Love, be catted
on me to Irtotv if I could discount it : J answered I •would
do it the Saturday folloiving— fie not c+zH 'tng on as I
expeftcdy I catted at his bcufe for the purpose; ivben be
informed me that it ivas in the poffrjjton of Mt. IVugner,
its Secondfir eft ■> on ivhom I called for thepurpofe of tak
ingitup, previous to leaving the city during the fever■•
•who told me he inerv nothing of the note ; I never learnt
inhere it •was until my return to the city, when a series of
unparalleled misfortunes had rendered rae incapable <f
discharging my jufl debts : I called on Mr. Priejlman, as
ivell as my other creditors, and offered to pay ihtm Ly an
order for retaining a. portion of my yearly salary until
they tvere paid, convincing them that this was my only
r/Source, and produced protefied paper (ivhich tuas, when
t j ken, deemed good) to thrice tJjt amount of my debts,—*•
I n'hicb tuas abandoned by Mr. Prifflwan only, to the un
feeling attjele on my charaflerjtypullijling my notefqrfate.
Should any gentleman incline p trchafing my note, he
may refl assured of my honefi determination to the discharge
thereof, by the Jet off as I prop here ; and very pro
bably in a Jhort time, fihauld I nceive remitt itur ivhich
are daily expeSed from abroad, they wHI enable me amply
to dif change alt the debt* due ly
MICHAEL KRAFFT.
April T J. *.V
SALT P El R E.
One hundred kegs of refined Salt Petre,
For Sale by the Subscribers.
James C. & Samuel W. Fijhtr,
No. 13, Arch Street.
march 31 4tawtf
IMPORTED.
AND FOR SALE BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
brown Hollands
Oil Cloths
Gilt, Silver'd and common marbled paper
German Tapes
Looking Glasses
Straw knives, Scythes, and a variety •( other
German goods.
ALSO ON HARD,
A General Assortment of Ironmongery,
Sadlery, &c.
Gideon Hill Wells,
Market, between 3d and 4th ftreet6, No. 135.
April 17 »w6w
Germantown and Reading Turn
pike Road Company.
THE Suhfcribers Commiflioners appointed by
an Afl of Afiembly of this Commonwealth
entitled, " An a<sl to enable the Governor of this
Commonwealth to incorporate-a- Company for.
making an Artificial Road from the city of Ph -
laddphia, through Germantown, by the rout
of Chelnut Hill, to the twelve mils (tow on
the Reading Road, and thence to Reading in thq
county of Betks," hereby give notice, that books
are provided as the law directs, 3nd that we
will proceed to receive fubferiptionsfor the com
pany's stock on the 28th, 59th, and days
of May next, at the City Hall, in the city at
Philadelphia,at the Tavern of Wiliiam Burhoia,
in Germantown, at the Tavern of Jacob Berr,
in Reading in the county of Berks, and at the
Tavern of George Phleger, in Potts-Town in
the county of Montgomery, en the fame days,
from ten o'clock in the morning, until two o'
clock, P. M. en each day, when and where cer
tain of tlie Commiflioners will attend to receive
fubferiptions accordingly. '
april 14th, 1798.
BENJAMIN CHEW, jun.
CASPAR W. HAINES,
SA MUEL BET I'ON,
GEOJIGfc LOGAN,
JOHN FROMBERGER,
ISAAC FRANKS,
JOS HEC-TER,
J. BOWER,
DANIEL ROSE,
SAMUEL LAVERTY,
GEORGE DOUGLASS,jun.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
N. B. Fifteen Dollara to be paid on each
(hare at the time of fubferibing.
April 17 —eodt^eM
To the Affli&ed with
NERVOUS Disorders, lofs.of appetite, female
complaints, debilitated donflitutions, inward
weaknefles, lownefs of spirits, f-'minal weaknefles,
iudigeftion, decayed, weak or relaxed coollitutions,
pains in the limbs, poverty qf blood, finking anx
ieties, and tremors, which so dreadfully the
weak, the fedeatary and the delicate, every symp
tom of extreme debility, attendant on the indiscre
tions of youth, the Conferences of a diflipated
life j exec-fs of pleasure or grief, change of climate,
the immoderate use of tea, spirituous liquors, or
any intemperance ; difordecs incident tp young
girls and women at a certain period of lift—
THE CELEBRATED
Cordial Restorative Balsam,
Is a medicine of abroljlfeiy fpecific and unparal
leled virtues, in the speedy anil effeSual cure of the
above disorders, havmjf stood atrial of manyfuc--
cvfcfal years, during which period ivaay have been
retlored from the brink of the grave. 1
Youth and age of either sex, are equally theob
jeib of this Reiterative, and they will uniformly
participate in its falahrions qualities' and effetfs ;
tor whether the fyllemhaareceived a fliock, and is
debilitated, from imprudences or inattention in
tlie earlier part of life, or is finking uuder the ad
vance of year*, a small quantity of this medicine
Will give pre Tent relief to, a,.d afford a pleasing
profpteisl of returning health and llrength, by g: /-
ifUr tone to themufcuiar I'yftem and organs of di
gtilion, and in ajreat niralure reuotatiug the cou
ftitntioa.
Women at any period of life, may by this medi
cine be freed from the moa a(Rii3i"g difor.iert in
cident to the fcx, and at a ctitain period it is moll
highly ufrfuL
The Cordial Rfftorative Balsam i« fold genuine
(only) by the proprietof, Dr.JAMES CHURCH,
at hi, medicine fiorc, No 1, South Third lireet,
ntxc Market v reet', Phlta ielphia ; where may be
hac an aeconnt of rhe virtues of this Reft.rative
and a lift ot curta. April 3—»w)w
JUST ARRiVED,
In the ship Phcenix, capt. Orice, from Amfterdaw,
2 boxt-sSiamois I hhd. Hogs Briiiles, tit
5 <io. Haarlem Sfripes qualify
t, do. Checks, No. » 2 do. do. %i do.
9 do. Sealing Wax 3 aud
Cream Cheese in prime nclicfts lirtl quality Red
order for exportation Crust
ALSO,
Just Received, via Baltimore, &c.
50 bales brown Ticklenburgs and hempen Linens
io bales German Oznabrig9
30 bales brown Rolls and Heffins
25 bales Poliih do. fa it able for coffee and cotton
bags
20 bales empty Bags
1 bale bleached He (Tans
I package Turkey Yarn
54 pieces Madrafs Handkerchiefs
1 «heft Tapes, No. 13, 25, &c.
1 package cotton Lindfeys
250 boxes Window Glaft, jf by 9, 8 by 10, 9 by
n, 10 by 12, 14 by 16, 16 by 18, &c.
20 chests plain and jflowered half pint, pint and
quart Tumblers
20 chests Looking Glafles, assorted
4 large elegant do.
30 travelling Liquor cases
1 chit ft and 8 barrels Snuff Boxe«
400 fides upper and foal Leather
A cargo of prime Mahogany
Several Anchors, from 4 to 12 cwt.
20 pipes old Po r t '
A few quarter cafksSherry ( \\riNES
60 cases White f
200 boxes Ciaret J
80 boxes Capers
joo f.nall boxes Ruflia Soap
30 tierces Rice
50 caflcs Roll Brimstone
40 kegs yellow Hone Ochre
15 k. gs Pearl Barky
2 hogsheads Madder
1 chest aflorted Quills
6 bales Writing Paper
iO thefts # Slates and Pencils
20 trunks Mens* and Womens' Shoes
Oo Silver Watches
1 hhd Coffee Mills
2 do fifhir.g and blocking Twine
2 chests Nuremberg Toys
A few Demijohns %
A quan ity of stone pickling Pots
4 boxes of EaghA Chariot aad Chariot Harness,
with plated ornaments in complete fettsfor 2 t 4,
or 6 horfes,alfo Whips, Spurs, 3cc.
The above Goods are generally entitled to draw
back, are suitable for the East-India market, and
will beTold at reasonable prices and at the usual
credit, by
PRATT & KINTZING,
No. 9J, North Water-ilreet.
April 16. t&filt
t 'HE term of Co-partner(bip between the lub-
X. fcribers, trading under the firm of John Mil
ler, }un. and Co. expires this day, and by mutual
consent will not be renewed- The debts and con
cerns of the fame will be fettled by John Miller,
Jun. to whom all those indebted;to thepartnerfhip,
are earnestly requelled to make payment to, with
out delay.
JOHN MILLER, J.m.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
February 19 stf
LANDING,
From on board the Ship Sally, from
Calcutta,
AND FOR SALE BY THE SUBSCRIBIR»
1600 bags prime Sugar,
800 do. Ginger
3® bales low priced piece Goods.
John Miller, Jun.
march 3 §
Alex. J. MiHer & "James Davis,
■. Having entered into partuerfhin under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller & Co.
INFORM their frieiidsin town and country, that
th.y have opened a Whoiefaie Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South Front Srreet, Philadelphia ; where
they now have, and intend kceepirjr a general af
fojtmcr.t of India. Gctm4h, Frtr.cb and Bri
iijh Mariniaflureslor £alc, «n advantageous termr
i'or cash or a Ihort creuit.
February 19 §tf
TO BE LET,
Andpajjej/ion given immediately,
: AgenteelthreeftorvbrickHoufc,
N 1. 7., North EiVlith street,
24feet front an< S5 feet de-p, with a handsome
Garden. Enquire at No. 128 Spruce street.
April 4 S
FOR SALE,
Two three (lory Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &e. Gtuateon
Water street ; between Mulberry an-J Saflafras
Streets, containing in front On Water street fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadjh east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
fomh thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
have the convenience of a publ'c alley adjoin
ing on the north fu)e, and area very defirablefit
-1 uation for a a merchant, flour fadtor, or others
who may have occasion for storage of goods.
This property will be fold on very reasonable
terms for cash. For further information apply
to the printer.
April .5 1
For Sale,
time of a EAD, who has a
bout three years to serve—He is perfectly
capable of and ul'ed to all kinds of house work ;
has also been accustomed to wait at table. A
purrhafer refilling jn the covin try would be pra
ter red. Enquire of the Printer.
Aprlf li- eod3w
TO BE SOLD,
A Very Valuable Farm,
SITUATE on theNelhamiqy creek, Buck'scoun
ty, contami- g about 14? J^raf 4 of which about 30
acres are excellent wooa-.and; the remainder m«a
dow and plough land, and in » highly cultivated
state ; the whole under pofk and rail fence, chu fly
new latt summer. On the promises are a log-house
and barn. The fituatien for a country feat is per
haps one of the mo.l elijpblein the viribity of Phi
ladelphia, lying on the Nefbaminy, with the ad
vantage of a landing place within 100 yards of the
farm-houfc, andcomnian;linj< a very extensive viefcr
of the surrounding country : it is about three quart
ers of a mile from the floating bridge, 17 3-4
miles from Philadelphia, and 21-1 miles from Bris
tol. For terms of sale and further information ap
ply to Thomas Bcnjcr, F.fq. i s Bristol, or
WILLIAM WALN,
No, !4», South Second street.
April 7. JUwU
[Volume XIII,
A Premium of 100 Dollars
WILL ke paid by the Back of Pcnofyl** 4
nia. far such Flan of a' Backing Hoife,
accempa&ied with fe&ions and elevations, asmiy
be approved of by DireScrs. The building: '•*
not intended to exceed 60 fcet front, or 100 1 ret
•n depth, and to be so planned as to admit of in
being nude fire proo!. It » tequefled tJiat th«
plans may be fcu* to the Cafbior ot the Bank, pre»
vious to the flrft of June »ext.
A P ril <9 wthttije
ADVERTISEMENT.
LODGED in thcTreafury of the United Slates Ui
Refunded, and for sale, between twenty and thirty
tlwufmd dollars in Public Securities, end or fed by the
United States, with the promifeto pay theintereft an
nually at five per cent, per anriiitn.
The owners wanting money, will difpcfc of the
whole fjm 2t twenty-hve per cent, discount So large
adifcount will make it ao obje& with mooicd men
whi> confide in public ciedit, or rely upon the iQoft
perttft engagement ever entered iato by Congrqfs,
Enquire of JOHN M.TAYLOR, 85, Chefmit
fUeet.
N.B. McEwen 5c Co gave us any autho
rity to Insert the above advertisement
it has appeared with their names.
April 18 d| V
LANDING,
From onboard th 2 (hip Elizabeth, captain Paillie,
from Batuvia,
And FOR. SALE !?y tke Sobjcri^jir,
400,000 wt. Java COM'EE
300 canrfters SUGAR, of a superior quality
ALSO.
A quantitv of 8 A HAN VVOCD
JOHN MILLER, ju.-i
april 17. §
Thomas Joshua Fisher,
HAVE FOR SALE;
At No. 5, Dock-street, near the Drawbridge,
China ware n.mkecn dining setts, tea and coHee
c«ps and saucers
Nankeens, black fattins and taffitie9
Pungem cloths, choppah romalls, and bandannoes
China and English umbrella?,
Together tvitb a general ajfort merit of European
Goods— among 'which are
Scots thread in boxes
6d. Bd. iod. nd and aoi. nails
Shot—T. Crowley steel, Spanish brown and white
lead
English scythes 4a to 50 inches
ALSO,
111 barrellsef kiln dryeA Indian corn meal.
A commodious S tore in Dock-street,
.No. 7, to be let, three {lories high, suitable for
any business.
4th mo. sth §tf
For Bale,
BY THE SUBSCRIBER, NO 10, CHESNU 1 * STREET*
11 Calks of Carolina Indigo,
Which will be fold on reasonable terras ca a fliort
credit.
Robert Henderfan.
April 4 mn&s4*
JUST RECEIVED,
FROM r O IT-ABPII INC £,
And FOR SALE, by the SUBSCRICRRS,
110 hhds. Coffee
46 tierces do.
100 barrels do.
100 bags do
110 hogtfieads of Mufcoirado Sugar
80 barrels of do.
40 hogiheads of Molasses
4 bales of Cotton
2 hogfliends of 6ocoa
WILLINGS fcf FRANCIS.
Penn-flrecC.
march 11.^ 1
Interpreter of Foreign Languages.
JOSEPH E. G. M. deLA GRANGE,
Walnut-flreet, No. 113,
BEING duly commiflioned and sworn in tjje a
bove capacity, offers to translate the French,
Engliih, Spanish, Portugunfgand Italian Lanjfive
ges : he flatters himfclf his former nv»ifeiiion,
as advocate, both in France and St. D<v.i:'.igo, has
well qualified him to tranflite any Conrt proceed
ings or other Jud ciary inflrunjirt.<.
N B. The FRUNCH CIRCULATING LI
BRARY continues open at the above place. Ma
ny valuable additions having teen made to thi»
coilealioK, it confitlsnow of about 1500 volume",
the belt adapted to answer the pnrpofe of those
who wish both to improve in the Language, and
obtain ufeful inflruftion and plcaiurc.
march 30. - 3awrm
For Sale,
A good situation for a Country Seat,
Forty acres of Land,
On the Old York road, within fight of Ger
mantown, rnd about five miles from the city;
the whole being under goiid fence, and in ex
cellent order as pasture ground.
For further information and terms, apjjly to
Jonn Elliot*- Cihsson, at his Office for the
sale of Real Estates, Conveyancing, &c. No. 54,
High-street.
4th mo. 3d. tn&fiit
MESSAGE
Of the Preftdent of the United States,
To both Houses of Congrek,
AF*IL3, 'gß
With the Dispatches from the Envoys of
the United States at Paris,
Which accompanied the Same.
for sale
At No. 6.; North 3d itreet, at Way & Gross's
Printing-office, No. 27 Areh flreet, and at the
office of the Editor, No. I; 9, Chefnu-ftrcet
JUST PUB WISHED,
AND FOR. SALE AT THIS OFFICE,
(Prut 25 Cents)
Refle&ions on Monroe's View
OP T3R CONDUCT OF THR RXECUT/FE 9
As piiblilhed is the
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
Under the fignatnre of
SCIPIO,
/» 1 vLicl tie Commercial Warfare tf France it triad
to the French Faction in this Country, as its Snurct,
rnni thi Motives oj Ojftfition, ttV
march 30.
For Sale,
A CONVENIENT well built fecondhsnd Vijht
hung on Jacks with and
blind' in the doort, with or without harness.
Enquire of Peter Umerickhoufe, Arch, below
Sixth flreet, or the fubferiber in Germantown.
CASPAR H'. f>4l.vrs'
»prU % • ♦2a« 3 wXije (Sasette.
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY EVENING, April 11.
Yeflerday, the House of Representatives of
the United States again went into a committee
ot' the whole on the (late of the union, on the
b 11 to provide an additional armament for the
further protection of the trade of the United
States ; when the consideration of Mr. Gal
latin's amendment for confining the life of
the vessels, being resumed, after a long de
bate, which protraCted the fitting till nearly
eight o'clock at night (from a determination
of a majority ofthe house to take the queflion
before they rose) the question was taken and
negatived 49 to 34. The committee rose,
and after taking a queflion upon the amend
ment for flriking out sixteen vessels to insert
twelve, by yeas and nays, which was carried
4-5 t0 37.and alio upon Mr. Gallatin's amend
ment, which was renewed in the house, and
negatived 50 to 31, the bill was ordered to be
reaJ a third time on Monday, to which day
the house adjourned.
The Speaker not being able to attend the
house, from indisposition, a motion was made
by Mr. Sr rague, and carried, for the ap
pointment of a Speaker pro tem. The house ac
cordingly ballotted for a temporary Speaker,
when the votes were as follow ; for Mr. Dent,
40, Mr. Sitgreaves 19, Mr. Baldwin 11, Mr.
J. Williams 1 and Mr. Blount 1. —Mr. Dent
wasofcourfe declared elected and took the
chair accordingly.
Married lafl Thursday evening, by the rev.
Mr. Abercrombie, Dr. J-ohk Church, to
MiftCATHAKiNE Duffield ; elded daugh
ter of Dr. 13. Dutlield ; all of this city.
On Sunday departed this life, aged about
forty years, Mr. George Kitts, innkeeper. An
afflicted widow and numerous offspirng are
left behind to deplore his premature diffolu
tion—ln the relative, civil, and social duties
of life he was a confpieuous and examplary
model of perfection ; —his amiable and beno
volent qualities had endeared him to a nume
rous body of friends, who paid the lafl tribute
of respeCt to him, by attending his remains to
the German Lutheran Church of St. Michael,
where a funeral discourse was delivered by
the Rev. Mr. Smith. Amongfl the number
of refpetlable citizens who fuelled the long
lift of mourning followers of his bier, were
the corps of light-horse and the German So
ciety, of each ot which bodies he was an ac r
live a%d a much-refpetled member.
The hand of crime has kno lied the final hour
of old Rome. A General of the cut-throats
hi* planted the Bohon Upas super Capitolii im
mobile fixum, and thefacred purple of the holy
Pater Ro has been defiled by the rude
touch of filthy ruffians.
The following palTages from a poet of elder
time, apply moll aptly to the present day ; and
to our own country, no less than to that which
nuriur'd the immortal bard. It is hardly ne
csffary to fay they are Shakespeare's.
" O England 1 modefi to tby inward greatness,
Like little body with a mighty heart,
What might'J! Thou do,that honour ojould thee do,
Were oil tby children kind and natural I
Eut fre thy fault : France has in thee found out,
A nefl of hollow brfoms, whichfhe fills
With treacherous Crowns."
" This England never did, nor never (hall
Lie at the proud foot of a conqueior.
Come the three corners of the world in arms,
And prove Old England to herfelf but tru«—
She shall {hock them all "
For the Gazette of the United Stales.
No. 111.
The British treaty and the President's speech,
as we hare seen, are the avowed reafans for
which paci'.ication is impeded, and for which
warlike deprecations, are committed. Writers
on the law of nations difcrlminate between the
reasons given, and the real motives for hostili
ties. Every nation going to war, offers some
juflificatory plea ; btit the motives are often ve
ry different. The treaty and the speech are the
juflificatory excul'ts of France; but I cannot
copjeilureany feafonahle motive they can have.
Js it reafoaablethat any nation would lavish her
tres'ure when she is poor already ?. that she
would fail the blood of her foldlcrs wben she
has !• ft a million in fix years by fighting ; and
all this, to obhia fatisfadtion for a treaty which
does rxt affect her ; «i for a speech which was
a jail exposition of her
ptciall), car.nrt be a valid cause of quarrel, for
their unfriendly disposition was manifefted be
fore the promulgation of the speech.
To render any offenfive adls of heftility equi
table, the jollification and the motive should
b t'n appear " decent and commendab'e." How
rommendable is the j iflif.cation of France ?
Why, as much fj, as those of Alexander to Da
rius—or ofthe Romans for thefecond Punic war.
Like thtii mod«l the Reman.republic, the
French motives are unjufl—like them, the latter
are the plunderers of the world ; like them,
conquest, falfe glory, ambition and dominion,
ire their dffiderata magnata. Their judica
tion dwindles into a pretext for the gratifica
tion of these unlawful motives.
Supposing for argument only, that France had
a reafonsble cause : their motive could not he
good, in commencing war, for no real advan
tage could be gained by it. If a quarrel should
always succeed a right to quarrel, we should
have been involved long ago. llow then can
France b: defended, when Uwth a commendable
plea, and. a just, or even a politic motive are
wanting ?
Having hitherto spoken of the French, as be
ing at « ar with America, on their part, it will
be nccrffary to prove the faft. " War" (fays
Vattel page 437.) " is that state in which a na
tion prosecutes its right by force." This defi
nition is general; and we may suppose that a na
tion prcfecuting any thing wrong, by force, is
war. Again, (Vatt. p. 439) »• He (speaking of
afovereign) who takes up arms and attacks a
nation that lived in peice with bim makes an
offenfive war." Nothing is neceffarj to prove
that France has done this.
Lxcufes are often given, that the offending
individuals arc unauthorized to commit these
spoliations. But if application is made to that
nation, whose citizens nave violated our tran
quility, and no order for recompence or restitu
tion ran be procured, the nation takes the bur
den of the crime from the citizen. The calm
and delightful scene of peace is (hoved by, and
that*of war introduced.
At this moment, our commifTioueri are fcli
citii.g an audience of the French Republic: un
precedented preliminary conditions to a hearing
are required : the captures ftiil fandior.ed, and
new laws enabled for the deOruftion of more
vefiel*—And we may expcdl that decree'.pon
decree, will eventually produce the annihilation
of our commerce.
This war game is played dexterously ; for
while their mibi&crallures ouri, of the aSeflion
of France for America, the dire&ory and both
legislative houses pal's laws more and mure ini
mical to u>. This it like killing our lips,, and
kicking our Ihins at the fame time.
ARISTIDES.
MR. FFNNO,
When I fiill knew that the Prsfident pave
up the lite difpatehes from France, I was both
surprized and displeased. But after I found
that he ha<i given up his inflruflions alfs, I Was
inoenfed against him—But fin e that, on mature
rcfledtion, and finding that giving up the whole
has had so goofl an effcdl, I am fatiafied it was
proper ; the situation of our country required
it. Our late President would not accede to
give up the inftru&ions to Mr, Jay—l conftft
the cases are not exadlly similar—l
always thought he did right, from tht reasons
he gave. Faflion, that bane of all republican
government*, and which fcems to prevail in a
very uncommon degree in this age of the world,
calli to tny mind what Mr. Ponfonby, a cele
brated member of the Irish house of commvns,
fiid some years ago—" I dislike (fiyshe) re
publican principles—l deleft republics, because
from all the knowledge I have been able to
acquire of the ancient republics, and that which
I have of existing republics of Europe, 1 am lat
isfied they are governments unfavourable to ra
tional liberty." I hope it will net be the cafe
with our government and country, where I trud
order, law and justice will support Its pillars,
which of lale have been too much under-nined
by the power qf taction. CIVIS.
•
The following was sent to the Editor of the
Aurora, but could not find a place in that
impartial paper.
MR. BACHI,
See-ng in your paper ofTuefday 17th inft.
that " one signature hid been obtained to the ad
dress of the citizens to the Prefi lent, See. by a
misconception of its objedl and contents and
that the signer did or wished to era fe his
name," >t was spoken of as matter of conver
sation in presence of several |;eifans, who con
ftdering the tendency of £uch publications, at a
moment when unanimity only can avert the
Jlorm, and preparation pre/erve us from it, some
of them cilled at y®ur office to enquire into the
faift ; they were desired in writing to "apply
to John Miller, near the Mcthodift meeting in
Fourth flreet," whither they went, and hiving
met him in his own tavern, were informed, that
" his young man a blacksmith, who came from
Scotland, had been in a (lore when theaddrefs
wa° presented and was aflted to sign 'it, which
be did; but on his tellir.g him (Mr-M.) and
others he had done so, they told him he was de
ceived, Isfc. upon which he fa d he would with
draw His name."
This affair being thus candidly dated, the
public and the world are to judge of what con
sequence it is that a man shall sign an address,
who does not know its purport ? And that upon
a fubjedl the theme of public, and universal pri
vate conversation at the time ?
Philad- April 18.
DEDHAM, (Mass.) April 12.
Mr. Solomon May's barn, in Roxbury,
happened to be burnt by a lighted pipe !
If all the mifchief, that has happened by
lighted fegars, were put into one column,
and all the good they have done, by procu
ring to stupid people the enjoyment of some
additional half hours of stupidity, (which
is all that is ever said in their praise) were
put into another column, which, on a fair
calculation, would be the greater sum ? By
fmoaking tobacc9, houses and barns are in
danger of being burnt; and many are de
stroyed in confcquence.
By keeping dogs, the flocks of (heep are
ltflened one half, many children's lives have
been loft, and more are exposed.
Now which of the virtues that adorn life
which of the duties that sustain it, costs so
much as either before mentioned ? It costs
more for tobacco, 'than for charity and
knowledge. More has been fpeot in the
United States to feed dogs, than to teach
children!— Yet this is the boasted age of
reason and reformation.
BALTIMORE, April 17.
Yesterday arrived in this town, captain
Levi Thayer, resident at Ti®ga Point, on
the river Sufquehannah, in (he country of
Luzerne, Penniylvania. This Gentleman
started from Tioga Point on the sth of the
prcfent month, in company with at least one
hundred rafts of timber, confiding of malls,
spars, scantling, boards, staves and ftiinglet,
of which three belonging to the above gen
tleman, had palled down the river and got
to Havte de Grace on Sunday last, nine o'
clock.
The greater part of the timber abovemen.
tioned is consigned to captain '1 hayer, and
he has given positive diredions, that al
under his management shall pass into the
Chesapeake let the risk be what it may. A
gentleman concerned accompanied the rafts
from Wright's Ferry to the tide water, and
came through that distance in 7 hours. An
ark loaded with i joobufhels of wheat was
at Wright's Ferry on Friday last, and in
tended palling down the river the next day.
1 he great body of the wheat and flour com
ing down the river are flopped at Harrif
burgh, Middle-town and Wright's Ferry,
in order to be transported to Philadelphia,
the proprietors thereof fearing to rifle it
through the falls in their present (late.
1 here was also a boat load of hemp on the
river, which the proprietors could not be
Prevailed on to bring to Baltimore : it was
Put in waggons at Middle-town, and carri
ed over to Philadelphia, Captain Thayer
leaves town this day for Havre-dc-Grace,
in order to bring round his timber to this
market.
Vd April 18-
At a very numerous meeting of the citizens of
ibis place and of Baltimore county, at the
Court-house, yejlerday morning, convened
after public not ce, to tale into con/ideration
the measures necijfary to be adopted at this in
terejling period, general John Swan in the
chair, the following rtfolutions were unan
imiujly adopted :
Rrfolved, That the conduft of the Ex
ecntive of the United States, in relation
to !• ranee, has been liberal, wife and just,
and merits, and therefore has, the approba
tion of this meeting.
! Resolved, That it is highly expedient at
this time, when a foreign nation, equally
regardleis of the failh cf treaties, and the
rights ofthe fovercigr.ty and independence of
: the Uiuictl States, haj threatened onrexif
tence as a nation, and untruly represented
us to be a divided people, to declare, and
we do therefore declare, our determination
to support the constitution of the United
States, as now eftablifWd, and the liberty
and independence thereof, against all foreign
nations whatsoever, to the utmost of our
power.
Re/olveJ, That a committee be appoint
ed to prepare an address to the government
of the United States, afTuring them of our
readiness to support the constituted autho
rities, and praying that effectual provision
may be made for protecting the commerce,
and securing the freedom and independence
of the United States.
The committee consists of the following
persons : John Swan,
James Winchester,
Z. Hollincsworth,
James Carroll,
Walter Dorsey.
Latest Foreign News.
LONDON, March 1.
The directory has issued a proclamation,
addrefTed to the French, relative to the en
suing elections—the objeCt of which is, to
inspire all Frenchmen with a f:rvent love of
their country, to dishearten all factions, to
annul the EnglifV influence, to crush the
spirit of Royalifm, to maintain Liberty,
Equality and the Rights of Man, and to af
ford the people the most proper means for
exercifiug the rights of sovereignty. The
directory is at a lofa to conceive " h©w it
happens, that at the end of eight years re
volution, and such brilliant successes, the in
terior of the country is not so secure as af
fairs are abroad, which it attributed to the
hydra of royalifm, constantly beaten down
and constantly regenerating,and to the choice
of the representatives who were proposed last
year and paid by the treacherous agents of
Blankenburgh and St. James's." The di
rectory cautions the French people to beware
of the fame 'snares in the ensuing electoral
afTemblies, and to avoid them by choosing
worthy deputies.
A letter from Calais, inferred in the Pa
ris papers, thus describes the late visit of
Buonaparte to that port : " It is not gene
ral Lafue, it is Buonaparte who has been
here, cloleted with our oldest sailors, infpeCt
lng all the maps, and conferring on the va
rious projeCts of a descent upon England,
which have been addrefTed. Our marines
on this coast are exercising themfelvesat de
barkation ; and we have seen in less than five
minutes, fifty gun-boats make good their
landing, with their cannon and carriages.—
Our guns are to be of the English calibre,
that whatever cannon or balls we may cap
ture on landing may be converted to use.
They talk of an Irish general called Napper
Tandy, who istocolleCt under his flandard
no less than thirty thousand United lrilhmen.
On the whole, the descent appears tous to
wear a serious afpeCt."
1 he merchant vefTcls and privateers which
were at Oftend, the fame papers fav, ate
under orders to repair to Dunkirk withcut
delay, to join the expedition which in the
latter port is preparing against this coun
try.
March 5.
By a decree of the direftory the minis
ter of has been sent to Brest to su
perintend the preparations for the invasion
of England ; he is said to be accompanied
by Buonaparte.
A letter from Brest, dated February 18
states, that the night before a squadron of
ships bad failed from that port for St. Do
mingo, and that as they had a fine north
wind, there was no doubt of their being ar
rived out of the line of the British cruizers
before morning.
Private letters from Italy, speak with
confidence of an arrangement by which
Rome is to be given to the Duke of Par
ma, who is to cede his present territories to
the Kiag of Sardinia ; who, in his turn, i«
to pay the French for his acquisition, by
the cession to them of the Island of Sardi
nia. Others again represent the King of
Naples as likely to Receive a considerable
share of the spoils of the Ecclesiastical
States, in return for which, the French are
to be put in pofleffion of the Island of Si
cily. Whatever the French may give, that
they are bent upon taking all that they can
get, seems no wife unlikely ; and the ar
maments which they have fitted out in the
Mediterranean and tbe neighboring seas, are
probably destined to secure important acqui
sition s.
Lord Auckland was on Saturday sworn
into the office of Joint Post Master General.
The French look with confidence to a
fleet of more than one hundced ships of the
line before the month of July next. They
fay that they obtained sixteen ships of the
line at Venice, together with a n immenfc
arsenal of naval {tores ; they have fourteen
(hips of the line at Toulon, and the Spani
ards hare ten at Carthagena.—There are
twentjr-five in the port of Cadiz, and thirty
at Brest, Rochefort, and other French ports
of the Ocean. They look for sixteen frem
the Dutch, and thus they number a very
formidable fleet on paper. How to man and
equip these ships is the desideratum. A ve
ry large body of seamen, both Fiench and
Dutch, are now prisoners in England, and
ministers will take very good care that no
exchange shall take place, by which the ar
mament of the enemy might be forwarded.
Thursday, Lieutenant Bell» of the ar
tillery, tried another experiment on tbe
Queen's battery, Portsmouth, with a piece
or ordnance, which fully aefwered every
expectation formed of it, and will b« of
• great public utility. In cafe a ship is strand
ed 011 rock 3, tec. some distance from the
shore, to throw a rope, and the sea running
too high for people to get ofF to their affifU
a nee, then they are to have an iron ball with
a ring bolt, in which is fattened a line of fuf
ficient length to reach tbe shore, and being
fired from a carronade in an oblique directi
on, with 4 quantity of powder proportiou
cd to the it ii-meant to fuljj tlie (hot
of course buries itfelf in the earth, leaving
an end of the line on board, by the help of (
which the crew, with the smallest raft, can |
not only save their lives, but carry other I
ropea qii shore, or valuable part 3of the car- i
go. As the ball buries itfelf in an oblique |
direction, and will be pulled horizontally by i
the people getting on shore, it will of course |
bear a very great weight before it can be '
difeogaged frora the earth. Besides the
principal officers there were a great num
ber of people otl the ramparta to view so
curioas as invention.
CHARGE OF TREASON.
Saturday morning early three peace offi
cers arrived at the residence of Sladden,
Esq. mayor of Folkftone, and informed him
they were in pursuit of a Foreigner, who
had been a short time resident with a filher
man in that town. The mayor attended
them to the house, which was examined;
but the party was not found. One of the
officers then said to the fifherman, you have
three mahogany boxes. These the man
pointed out lying in the window ; and on
being opened, they contained tea, kc. but
one of them having three letters with fo
reign dire&ions these was taken poßcflion of
by the mayor. About ten o'clock the fame
morning the mayor, accompanied by Mr.
T. Baker and Mr. Stridwick, who are also
magistrates made some farther enquiry, and
found that the person had certainly boarded
with the fifherman, but had slept at Folk
ftone Arms Inn, from which he had depar
ted early i.i the morning, on observing the
confufion occaiioned by this search. The
filherman being upbraided for his dupl.'city,
confefTed that the person had set out on foot
for Afhfoi'd. The three gentlemen pursued
on horseback to Sandgate castle, where they
found the person had departed in a chaise
for Canterbury. They proceeded thither
with the utmott dispatch, and called upon
Mr. Alderman Brittow, who accompanied
them to the Fountain inn, where, enquiry
being made, it was found that the person
had changed horses at the Red-Lion tavern,
and proceeded on his route for London near
ly two hours before. The magistrate, upon
this sent for Colonel Cottereli, of the He
reford regiment, the then commanding offi
cer in that'city, who instantly dispatched
some orderly dragoons, and lieut. Marsh, of
the Hereford regiment, in purfuir. On his
approaching Rochester, the person got out,
and sent the chaise forwards ; but the dra
goons and officer arriving in the interim, a
hue and cry was raised, and he was taken
when just entering the back part of one of
the inns. He then underwent an examina
tion before R. Thompson, esq. Mayor of
Rochester, who sent him, under a proper
escort to town.
After the departure of the military in
pursuit, Mr. Alderman Briftow took a pro
per disposition from the mayor of Folkftone,
and the fame was dispatched, with the three
letters found in one of the boxes, by express
to the duke duke of Portlaud. The pri
soner reached town on Saturday, and is now
in custody at the Parliament street coffee
houfe.
Much praise is certainly due to the may
or and magistrates of Folkftone for their
great and persevering activity which led to
the apprehension.
It since appears that the captain of a ves
sel in Dover harbour (who is said to be in
custody) had accepted a large bribe to take
him over and that the fifherman was to have
carried him on board the veflel, which was
to fail to Folkftone roads for that pjrpofe.
Saturday Mr. O'Connor, and the others
implicated with him in a charge of high trea
son, were again examined before Mr. Pitt,
Mr. Dundas, the duke of Portland, the
lord Chancellor, the attorney and solicitor
generals, lord Liverpool, master of the Rolls
fir Wm. Wynne, Lord Chatham, and some
others, at the duke of Portland's office.
Favey, alias Captain Jones, alias Colonel
Morris, was the firft called in and under
went an examination which lasted about
three quarters of an hour ; during which
it is stated, he avoided any further commu
nication than he had made at Margate. Mr.
O'Connor, was twice examined, his answers
we are giventounderftand, werefcrupuloufly
reserved and inconclusive—has stay before
the Council did not, at either time, exceed
the space of five minutes. Alley and Leary
likewise underwent a short examination ;
Binns, persisting in his determination not to
answer any interrogatories, was not called
for.
At three o'clock the council broke up,
when Mr. Favey was ordered into the custo
dy of Sylrefter, the Mefienger ; Mr. O'-
Connor to the care of Seott; B.'nns to thkt
of Mason ; Leary, to East, and Alley to
Fabiani's charge.
Mr. O'Conner appeared less deprefTed
than he had been on his firft examination j
and Favey seemed highly confident.
The mahogany boxes, part of the bag
gage of the prisoners, and in which their pa
pers were depoflted, were of fmgular forma
tion, having at the bottom and fides fevcr
al cencealed drawers for the secretion of pa
pers—in other refpefts they resembled me
dicine chests, and the locks were of such
excellence, that no key or pick could be
fofind to open them, and the boxes were
nearly broken to pieces in order to attain
their contents.
FROM THE LONDON GAZETTF.
Admiraltx-OJJice, March^j.
E*:ra£t of a letter from tlie right "honourable
Lord Uridpor:, K. B. to Evan Nepein Esq.
dat'd February 17,1798.
Herewith you will receive, for their lord&ips
information, copies of two letters of the 11ft
inft. from (he hon. capt. Stopford, of his ma
jefly't Clip Phseton, flaling the capture sfl« Le
per? French ship privaieer ; also with the cap
ture of the American fl»ip Eliza, from t*o!lon 1a
Amftrrdam, with a valuable cargo on Itoard.
These letiers were transmitted to me by capt.
Frafer, of hit raajefty'i ship Nymphe, who saw
the above vJleUinto Plymouth in fafety.
Pl' seton, at sea, February 21, iiog.
My Lord, /V
I t*rt tie honor to inform your lordfhip,that
Oil the 19111 iqft. in consequence of the vigilance
fcfcapt. White, in keeping fight of and making
signals for a fail in the S. E. in very thick and
Iqually weather, I was.enabled, in his mijefty'j
(hip under my command, to come up with and
capture a French ship piivateer, called le Lege
re, tut 14 hours from L'Orient. bound to the
Weft-Indies, mounting 14 eight-pounders and 4
32.pound carronades, and manned with i;o
men. La Legere was built for a corvette, and
has been employed as filch yfitil these t'eir
months, when (he was fitted out for a privateer,
and fails so well that her capture -would hav«
been conficlerably delayed, had not carried
away her fore and main tepmafts dnri-ig the
chace. ROBERT STOPI'OKD.
Right Hon. Lord Bridporf, K B.
Phaeton, at sea, February at, 1798. ,
My Lord,
In addition to my letter to v.- ur iodfiip of
this day's date, I have to inforiit y n, that tht
Mermaid and Syiph bemg :r. chare in the *>. W.
have returned witn ;n American rtiip from Bos.
ton to AmftetfSin, that li,.d )•» an n.kcn by *
Trench privateer Tfit American (hip (called
the Eliza) it oi* n fily inm Batavia, with a
valuable carg«, ~ Its ftojiped at Eo'ton for frefh
papers, whhuui changing "her cargo. I fend the
Nymph 111 port with the captured veficli.
ROBERT STOPFORD.
light Hon. Lord BrMpnrt, K. B.
Copy of* letter iroin Robert M'Dougall, capt.
of his mije-fty's (hip' Ganges, to Evan Nepean,
Esq. dated at Yarmouth, February 17, 17984
fair.
Be p.eafed to inform the lords commlfiioners
or the admiralty, that the Marquis Cobourg
cutter arrived h;re this morning, after an en
g3gemer.t with la Revanche French Drivateer of
16 guns, and 61 men, which \jeflel Innk soon af
ter (he struck, and grratiy to Lieut. Webb'»
honour, he saved the pnfoners, and has brought
them in here. I herewith intlofe Lieut. Webb'*
letter to Hit for their lordships further inf'<rraa
tioa. ROBERT M'DOUGALL.
Kis majesty's armed cutter Cobourg, Feb- 26.
Sir,
I have the honour to inform yon, that yes
terday morning, at 7 o'clock, having Cromer
bearing S. 67- W distant 16 leagues, we fell in
with, and after 9 hours chic* (during which
we ran 100 miles, one halt the time blowing a
hard gale of wind at W N. W. ) we came up
atong-fide and captured La Revanche Frtnch
lugger privateer, of 16 guns and 6:1 men, after
a running fight of 4 hours, cbfe alongside.
Siie attempted to board us twice, but being
repuiied; artd a well direifled broadside having
brought her main and mizen-mafts by the board,
and (hot Ji« fore-yard away, they sailed for
quarters. We had no sooner taken poiTeftioa
ofr her, than, with the utmofl difficulty and all
the exertion w- poflibly could make tafe of in
getting, the pr loners (hiited, and our own peo
ple back when ihe funk, having received above
40 (hot between wind and water. She had 7
men killed and 8 -wounded, lam happy to add,
we had only j men (lightly wounded j the dam
age we fuftamed was moltly in o«r malls, spars,
fails, and rigging. She was a remarkable fine
failing vefiel, had only croifed 6 days, entirely
new, fitted out for a month's cruise. and the
largell lugger that failed out Wf Calais lam
particularly indebted to Mr. Jeflery, mailer, and
Mr. Roft, mate, for their attention, afiiduity»
and prompt execution of my orders, as well as
all the officers and crew, who deserve the high*
eft commendation in their.alacrity in knotting,
splicing, and (hifting fail jn variable weather
and through a variety of cnurfes, having beett
exposed to a (harp and well dire<3ed fire front
the stern chaces and mufquetry for near two
hours before the adlion cotvjrnenctd.
CHARLES WEBB.
Robert M'Dougall, Esq.
Copy of a letter from admiral Peyton, comman
der in chief of his znajeUy's (hips and vefTela
in the Downs, to Evan N'epcaii, Esq. dated
on board the Ovcryfiel, March 1, j-ji.
SIR,
Encloftd herewith is a letter I have received
froin Mr. George Broad, commanding his ma
jesty's hired armed lugger Rtf muian, slating his
having yefterdav captuied a French lugger pri
vateer. mounting 4 swivels, with j; trim ; and
that he afterwards iur.k her, (he being verv
leaky. 1 am, &c. } B | Y
JOSEPH PEYTON.
Refolutioa Lugger, at lea, February 28.
SIR,
I beg leave to acquaint y u, at fix A. M. Bou
logne bearing E S. E. diltar ce about three
leagues, the Do.phin armed cutter in company,
I full in with and captured after a cliace of fosr
hotirs, Le Pou I pie !■ ruich lugger pnvatter,
mounting four swivels, betides ftnjll arms, and
manned wirh 17 men, out 2 days from Dunkirk,
but has made no captures. The lugger 1 funk
she being so very leaky. G. BROAD.
NAUTICAL INTELLIGENCE.
Dispatches were last night received at the
admiralty from Sir Edward Pellew, Com
mander of the indefatigable, of 44 gnns.
The North.Sea squadron is to re-aflemble
at Yarmouth towards the close of the pre
sent month. Moil of the velTels which are
}0 compose it ara now ready for^fea.
Ihe Black Joke luiger, arrived at Yar
mouth from a cruize ess the Dutch coast,
looked into the Texel.on Monday last, and
c.juld not discern any veCels of war there
She took a fifhing boat, and landed the
crew, fix in number, on the Texel island,
cloft in with which ftie afterwards captured
a brig laden with fpiriu for Amllerdum.
The following it the naval farce (lationed
at Cork :
Ships Guns Commander*
Centaur 74 Capt.Markhham
Leviathan 74 Duckworth
Montague 74 Knight
Cumberland 74 Montague
Magnanitne 44 De Dourcy
Endyirion 44 Wilnau
Diana 38 Faulkner
Dryad 36 Beauclerk
Doris 36 Rantlagk
Santa Margaretta 36 Parker
Glenmore 36 Duff
Galatea 32 Byng
Cerberus 32 Drew
Unicorn 32 Young
Shannon 30 Frafer
Penguin i 8 Littlehale*
Kangaroo 18 Bruce
Fox and Tartar cutters.
The Polyphemus, Capt. Lumfdane, of
64 guns is expefted.
Ihe Lords of the Admiralty have ap
pointed capt. Stevcnfon to the command of
the Europa, of 50 guns j capt. Mackeller
to the command of the Minerva of 38 ;
Capt. Alt.horp to that of the Druid of 32 ;
and captain Hill to the command of the
Trompe.
the dire&ion of gen. Bentham, are on a perfeftly novel principle, their keel being like
a wedge without, any bu'ge or bearing.—
Capt. Portlock has got No. 1, which he is
fitting up in the best manner. No. I, allot -
ed a few days since to the Isles of St. Mar
cou, failed from Southampton river round
the buoys at Spithead to Portsmouth, a dis
tance of 25 miles, in an hour and 25 mi- 1
nutes. She mounts fix 18 pounder carro- '
nades, and two longfouie, and is said to be '
an excellent feaboat.
Saturday a new {hip of 74 guns, called
the Ajax, was launched from Randall's dock
yard at Rothnftiithe.
DUBLIN.
Lord's Protest.—Earl Moira's motion.
DiflVntieat,
Becanfe, that at a moment when government
has tho't itfelf obliged to exert unusual rigour,it
appears the 'xtreme of imp licy not to profefa
the reluilance with which such leverities are en
farced, anil the with of government to conciliate
the mind? of the people by a gentler course.
(Signed) Granard, Wm. Down & Connor,
Moira, Dunfany,
Charlemont, Mountcaftle, proxy.
February 28.
In the house of lords yellerday, Mr. John
Stockdale ►printer, of ftbbev street, *ga:n ap
peared at the bar, pursuant to an ordjr of the
preceding Jav
The spare be'ow the barwas extremely crowd
e<lt and most of the members of the heufe of
commons appearer! in the body of the house
before the chancellor look the wo Ifaek.
Mr. Storkdslr wai then calle'l to the bar, and
the <V.ire below it was immedistely cleared by
otdrr ps the I: rd ehmce!lor, so that we were
precluded from learning: pariiiulars; we are
enly apprized of the relu't, u hich was, that Mr.
Sto< kiiale wa§ frrirenced t" a fine of ;001. and
f.x months imprisonment in Kilmainham jail, !
whither he was conduced under a strong guard.
Mr. Stockdale h.if a wife and nine children
dependent on his ir.duftry !
HAMBURGH, February 21.
The Raven, English (1 op of war of 18
guns, lately wrecked in a gale, upon the !
sands near the Red Buoy, at the mouth of j
the Elbe, by the ignorance or careleffhefs ;
of the Dani/h pilots, two of whom were on I
board, was, two days previous to her going !
to pieces, the foene of every human exer- !
tion to get her off, but without avail. At •
length, when all bope3 of saving her|were i
at an end, the crew, with the usual enthu
siasm of thoughtlelfoefs, began to break o
pen and plunder every article of (lores, pro
visions, officers chests, &c. Three Blan-
boatsrame alongside when the storm
a little abated ,|and, by means of ropes fatten
ed round the body of each man, in his turn
pulled them on board, riot being able to put
a boat out, nor drive up any closer. Capt.'
Dixon was obliged to set the firft example,
before any of ihe men would submit to this
dangerous mode of saving themselves. At
-length the' whole was landed at Cuxhaven,
and fooD after a great member of them de
ierted different ways. About forty of them
came here a few days ago ; they were fol
lowed by two ofiicet s who by application to
the Magi (I rates, persuasion, 8c c. got some
of them back again ; but abi.ut twenty of.
them, amongst wh«m were five of the De
legates in the late mutiny at the Nore enlill
ed here with the Aullrian recruiter, and en
deavors to get them back, *t. have their en-_
gagemerit cancelled, proved ineffeflual.—
They will probably be marched to Venice
if the Emperor has aft'y projeft of forming
a maritime eilablifhment ther?. Yesterday
the two Englilh Officers returned to Cux
haven.
G £ R M A N Y.
RASTADT, February 10.
The following is the declaration of the
Prussian Minitters refpe£ting the cefiion of
th« left bank of the Rhine :
" The undersigned plenipotentiaries of
iis majesty the king ef Prussia, at the COll
- at Raftadt, do not hesitate to declare,
in the name of their high constituent, that
his majesty has for feveial years zealously en
deavored to obtain for Germany a peace as'
favorable as circumstances will allow ; his
majefly (l ill entertains the fame ardent wiffi ;
be is also of opinion that this peace cannot
be too soon accelerated, not only because
it "will relieve several parts of Germany of
the expences of the war, by which they
are exhjulied ; but also it will secure the
yhole empire against the difallrous and ih
calculable consequences with which it is
threatened by the continuation of the pre
sent (lateof things.
Considering that according to the nego
tiations which have taken place between the
deputation of the empire and the French
embafiy. it might happen, that in order to
attain a peace so earnestly desired by the na
tion, and so for humanity, the de
putation of the emperor and of the empire
might think uecedary to accede to the hafis
of p'tace proposed by Fiance, namely the
eeffion of the left bank of the Rhine, the
linderfigned Plenipotentiaries declare, in the
name of his majesty, a« Co-State of the
empire, that notwilhllabding hi» paternal
feelings are severely hurt by the loss of fub
je£U whojnanifeft so faithful an attachment
to him, it is not his intention to make an ex
ception with refpeft to his dominions fi'u
ated on this fide : but that by the eeffion
thereof, he will make a facrifice to the pub
lic welfare and the restoration of peace, tak
ing, however, as much as toffible the ne
cessary measures of precaution tot the hap
piness and fafety of the property of the in
habitant*, and on condition that his majesty
receives a jull and equivalent indemnification
On the right bank of the Rhine.
(Signed) " COUNT DE GOERZ,
DEJACOBI,
" KLOENL,
« DOHM."
Rauadt, Peb- 14. '798.
Imported in the (hip Phoenix,
Kichard Grice, mailer, from >«iftcrdaiu,
. A r t nantity of M n, f' '•* aill^
Two ciffs low pried 1 invn Checks
son »ALI «v
George Penned.
April 19. * 101 '
By this day's Mail.
BALTIMORE, April 19.
NOTICE.
The Gentlemen who have fubferibed to ]
the dinner, in honor of John Adams, our J
worthy President, for his late adminiftra- '
tion of the government, are informed, the n
dinner will be on the table of the Fountain a
Inn, prtcifdyat 3 o'clock this day, April v
19. Bv Order,
JAMES BRYDEN. e
The following is a copy of the Address in- °
tended for the signature of the citizens of t
Baltimore. j
7*o the President, the Senile, and the House
of Representatives of the United States. c
The Address and Memorial of the citizens
of Baltimore and Baltimore county. j
Refpeclfully Jbeweth,
THAT your memorialists at this impor- 1
tant and eventful crisis, when a foreign na- i
tion equally regardlef of the faith of trea- '
ties and tb; law of nations, has menaced '
with deftruftion the freedom and indepen
dence of the United States, and represent- :
ed the citizens thereof to be a divided peo- •
pie, feel themselves impelled by confidera- 1
tions as duty and love to their corntry, to '
express their sentiments and declare their
determination to support the constituted
authorities.
Your memorialists highly applaud thewife
and liberal measures pursued by the govern
ment of the United States for the adjust
ment of all differences, and restoration of
harmony between this country and the
French republic ; measures which, in their
opinion, had for their objeA the preservation
as peace, the faith of treaties and the wel
fare of the United States. It is with regret
we learn that these advances to peace have
! been wantonly rejedted, and our envoys not
j only denied an audience, but treated with
; the mod marked contempt. A condnft.
j like this fails not to excite a spirit of indig
! nation—and although warmly attached to
! peace and its consequent blessings, we can
| not for a moment hesitate in making our e
leftion between freedom and servile submis
sion to a foreign power.
Having the fulleft confidence in the wis
dom of our government, we submit to their
consideration, the neceflity of placing our
country in a state of defence, and protc£t
ing its commerce; and trull, that in the
adoption of such measures as found policy
may di&ate, the considerations of expense
and temporary inconveniences refuhiagfrom
the interruption of peace, will not be con
sidered of such msgnitude as to bfc placed in
competition with the foveriegnty and free
dom of the United States, whose exist
ence are so urijuftly threatened. ■
Arrived this day, (hip Hampton, capt.
Stafford, from Hamburg, which he lef the
23d of February.—A. Brown—Dry goods
We learn by capt. S. that the reports of.
Hamburg being, inverted by a French force
and the confifcation of British goods there,
are entirely without foundation. A French
ambassador had arrivid at that port and wiA
ed to fraternize them out of a loan of 6 tnil
lio-ns, but his request was not complied with
What the result wouldb?they could not 1 ell,
but loo' ed up for protection to Prussia and
the northern powers..
This informationlikewife contradicts the
articles by the late arrival at New-York, on
that he.:d.
The American ministers, it was reported
at Hamburg, had been ordered to quit
France j and the general opinion was, that
war between the two nations was inevitable.
Insurance had corifequently risen to 15 gui
neas ; and a few days previous to capt. Staf
ford's failing, no insurance eould be bad on
A merican vessels at all.
Sailed from Hamburg in.cnmpany with
a French built ship, for Baltimore:
Off the Western Ides, was boarded by a
French privateer fh : p—permitted to pro
ceed with the loft ofa spare top-mast only.
Made the land the nthinliant.
Left at Hamburg ship Union, capt. Bell,
to fail for Baltimore in 20 days.
The ship Cleopatra, capt. Conner, was at
Bremen, to fail for Baltimore the ill of
■ March.
JUST ARRIVED,
In the brigGayofo.fapt. Bingham, from St. Martini
A quantity of SALT,
of an exccellent quality
A few groce Porter Bottle*, new
, And twenty calks Vinegar
• AJ l°> FOR SALE,
' Enquire of
Jehu HollingJ-jjorth Co.
No. 22, Little Water llruet, South.
: april 10.
Ross & Simsoa,
HAVE rOR SALE.
22 bales superior Madrafs blue Cloths
Carolina Indigo, firft quality
A few bales Pas :as, Coflaes, and a quantity of
Bengal COTTON
1 Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica and"> RUM
x Bengal J
?nril 20 §
For Sale,
A Farm and Count/! r Seat,
SI a UATED on the well fide of the Schuylkill op
sofite to Norru-towh, feventccn miles from Phi
ladelphia—the farm contains Igs e c •es 01 land, £C.
of which are woodland, about 40 of meadow, awd
the rell arable land. The houfc*nd garden which is
large and well paled, itand in the most plcafant situ
ation, commanding a view'of tho fiver, an ifl-nd
which is opposite. and the village of Norris sown
There i» « shad fiGiery belonging to the place En
quire if* Philadelphia, No. g6, Norvh 1 bird Street,
or on the premise*.
April 16 tawtf
Wanted,
An aflive,. cleanly, induttriojn Womart tocook
a/>d do the Uufmefi ofthe Iritchtn. Such * one,
will be allowed good wajf.-s, and no o:hc* Reed ap
ply.—Enquire of the Printer.
February 7 j5
CON G R E S $.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Monda ?, April ifi.
MR. REKO presented .a petirion from the
inhabitants of Randolph, in the (tate of
Massachusetts, praying that merchauts may
not be permitted to arm their vellefs, and that
no measures may be tak?n which will lead to j
a rupture with France, as they wi/h to avoid
war with all countries.
Mr. Otis prefeuted a petition from Dor
cheller, in the fame (late, to the like eft'eil.
Mr. Livingston presented two petitions,
one from Acquacknonk, inEfTex county, <(nd
the other from another town in the fame coun
ty, in the (late of New-Jersey, to the fame
purpose.
Mr. Gallatin presented a similar petiti
on from,Morri flown, in New-Jersey.
The Speaker also laid before the House a
petition of the lame nature, from Newark, in
New-Jersey.
Mr. Dawson said, he had received some
resolutiOns which had been paired at a meet
ing of freeholders and others, of Spotfylva
nia, in Virginia, which he was requested to lay
before the House. He presented them, and
they were read accordingly. They were de
claratory of a desire for a continuance of peace,
and againfl the measure of arming merchants' I
velTels, and all other measures which may
have a tendency to involve the country in
war, and deprecating any connection with
England.
Mr. New also laid before the House some
refolutisns of » similar kind, patted at a nu
merous meeting of the citizens of Richmond,
in Virginia (which had been inclosed to him
by his colleague, Mr. Clopton, who is absent
011 leave).
The above petitions and refblu'ions were
referred to the committee of the"whole on the
(late of the Union.
Mr. Josiah Parked asked and obtained
leave of absence for his colleague, Mr. Ca
bell, for the remainder of the fellion. Mr.
Harrison did the fame for Mr. Giles, on
account of the bad (late of his health. Mr.
Spßrcc also obtained leave of absence for
his colleague, Mr. Baer, for eight days, and
Mr. Harper for Mr. Bayard for one week.
Mr. Foster, from the committee of
claims, made a report on the petition of Jo
nathan Hafkel, recommending an agreement
to the report of the Secretary of War on the
cafe, which goes to authorize the accounting
officers to fettle his account. —•Committed for
to-morrow.
Mr. Sew all moved that the House go in
to a committee of the whole on the (late of the
Union, in order to take up the bill providing
an additional regiment ot Artillery and En
gineers.
The House resolved itfelf into a commit
tee of the whole accordingly, and the bill ha
ving been read,
Mr. Sew all moved to fill the blank left
for the period for which men should be enlist
ed, with five years.
Mr. Nicholas had no idea we should
have occasion for these men for five years.
Mr. Dayton (the Speaker} said, they
might be wanted for five years. If they were
there would be a considerable saving inenlift
ing them for that time, as men would as rea
dily be got for that period as for shorter.
Mr. Nicholas was unwilling that the
men should be enlisted for so long a period,
and if no one else did it, he (hould move a li
mitation c'.aiife to the bill.
Mr. Lyon did not think citizens would be
fond of enlisting for five years; he thought
three years long enough.
Mr. Gallatin called for the reading of
the aft, which direffts that men Thalt be en-* -
lifted for five years, as he fojjnd in the origin
al law they were to be engaged, only for three
years. [The law of was accordingly
read.]
Mr. Sewall wiflied the words in thiscafe
to be the fame as in "the former law, viz. " for
five years, unless sooner discharged.'.' -
The question was put and carried, there be
ing 60 votes for it.
i Mr. Sewall moved to fill the blank for
the number of battalions with three, as he.
believed three would be furffitient.
Mr. J. Williams thoughrtvvo additional
battalions would be fufficient, as that would
■ make in the whole 24. companies, or 148.8*
■ men, and in that cafe another Lieut. Co'lonel
1 Commandant might be had.
The question, for three battalions was. put
( and carried, 47 to 3a.
The bill being gorie through,
Mr. Gallatin said, he wilhed to move an
' amendment in the firfl feilion. In the,year
- 1792, when the law was parted for railing three
, regimentsof Infantry, two provisions were in
serted in itto prevent their being kept longer
in service than the occasion for which they
' were engaged required. The firll was, " Pro
vided that the said three regiments shall be
' discharged so soon as the United States shall
f beat peace with the Indian Tribes." The
other provision gave to the President a povv
" er to forbear the enlisting of men, and of dis
charging them Whenever, in his opinion, the
, state of tilings ceased to make them neceflary.
In order to effe<il the fame purpose which
these provisions had in view, viz. adifcharge
of the men when the occasion which calls
them into exigence ceases to exist, he propo
sed the following amendment, " Provided
that the laid regiment shall be discharged, as
soon as the differences now exilfing between
the United States and the French Republic,
flull have been adjusted." Those gentlemen
who wished this regiment to be made a part
of our permanent establishment, would of
course vote against this amendment ; but
those who wished it to cease when the present
alarm ceases, will certainly vote in favour of
it.
Mr. Hap.tley did not think it would be
i right to agree to this amendment; for if we
were to be involved in war, it might not be
f with one nation only. He should be willing
to agree to the latter proVision which his col
league had mentioned, viz. that the President
shall forbear to raise men, ordifcharge them,
when he thinks proper. He saw no reason for
being so pointed, as we had not at present de
clared war against the French Republic.
Mr. Skw.ALL thought this amendment
pointed and improper. The gentleman from
. I'ennfylvania would not have Congress fay,
- thaf these men were raised to act against the
i French Republic. If the French were to at
' tack us, they would to be sure be employed
* against them. But this amendment supposed
' the end of a state of things which' is not yet
hegnn. He had no objeflion_ to adopt the
-provision which the gentleman last up had
mentioned.
' Mr. S. Smith said, he should be candid
with tile gentleman from Penufylvania. He
meant to vote for this corps, umier the idea of
its being a permanent corps. The House had
i voted 250,000 dollars'fdr the purpose of eretl
ing and foipplctin); fortifications, in which it
• would, hp to kuep a Jufhcicnt tulinbcr
of men, which he believed would require
of the men now contemplated, in addi
tion(3 rfcofe already in exigence. At Boflon,
ho ford, where there art none itt present, one
company will be wanted; at Rhcde-Illaiid,
New-York and Mnd-!fland, each an additi
onal company ; at Ocr icock, in North-Caro
lina; at Old Point Comforr, in Virginia; and
at three for's on the Mifliflippi, enrh a com
pany. He should therefore vo'e for th^sregi
ment tinder a profpefl of its being a perma
nent corp*. It was a corps which would re
quire men of education as officers—and what i
inducement, he alked, would there be for
men of this description to enter into it, ifthey
were liable to be discharged from the lervice
at the end of lix months f
Mr. Nicholas hoped the amendment .
proposed would not be disagreed to upon the
ground stated by the gentleman last up,which
he thought a little singular. If the force .
C»ntemplated, was adequate for a time of
war, the fdme could not be neceflary in time
of peace. The reason which would continue
in force this regiment after the occasion ceas
ed for which it was formed, would hold for
keeping up any ether force which it may be
found neceflary to raise. At a tiine when
measures are about to Be taken which will
call for all the resources which the country
can furnifh, they ought to look to a period
when they will have aner.d. He believed the
ex pence of a war, would be one of its greatefl
evils.
Mr-Dayton (aid, if the gentleman from
Virginia had (hewn that this additional regi
.ment would be fufficient in cafe of war, his
argument might have had lome weight ; but
not having (hewn this,norbeen able to (hew it,
his argument failed. He was not himfelf
prepared to fay that this regiment ought to be
a part of ourpermanent effablilhment,though
he believed some of the men at least would
be wanted to occupy the proposed new forti
fications, and the polls which we had receiv
ed from England and Spain. But he object
ed to the amendment particularly on this
ground, and it afionifhed him that a sentiment
of the kind (hould have corns from the quar
ter from which this came. If any thing in the
proceedings of our government could amount
to a declaration of hoftiliiy againfl France, it
would be found in this amendment. He hop
ed the committee would not agree to any pro
position which looked that way. Holtility
with that country was very probable; but
(hall we, said he, by a vote of this kind, de
clare that we are raising troops to be employ
ed holfilely again!! France f He trusted 110
such thing would be done.
(To he continued. J
%ije tttt.
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY EVENING, April 21
At a numerous and refpeflable meeting of the
citizens of Burlington, held at Hollinjheads
Tavern on the nineteenth day of April 1798
William Coxe, jun. in the Chair.
I ft. Resolved Unanimously, That in the
opinion of this meeting, the President of
the.United States has by all honorable, sin
cere and faithful measures endeavored to re
store harmony between the French republic
and theft United States.
2dly. That by his perseverance and mo
deration under circumftancesfo discouraging
and conduftfooffenfiveon the partofFrance,
in order by all pofiible means compatible
with nationil honour to avoid the evils of
" wan he nas added fre(h lustre to a well earn
ed fame, 4nd deserves thq lasting gratitude
of his country.
jd!y. That every department of the gov
ernnußt of the United States pofieffes the
confidence of thii meeting, and that in peace
or war, as it is their duty, so it is their fet
tleddetermination,toaid, defendand support
the measures of theirlawfol Representatives;
and that it is their firm opinion, the people
of the United States will mod cordially u
nite in the moll vigorous exertions in de
fence of their property, freedom and inde
pendence.
hly. That a memorial be drawn np ex
pi effing the sentiments of this meeting as
stated in the foregoing refolwtions, to be
signed by those who concur in the kme, to
be prcfented to the President, Senate and
•House of Reprefe tatives of the United
States.
sthly. That MelTrs James Sterling, Wil
liam Coxe, junr. William Griffith, John
Neale, Jofcph Mcllvaine. Robert Pcarfon,
Nathan Roekhill and Micajah Ellis, be a
committee to receive fubferiptions to the
Address agreed upon by this meeting, and
transmit the fame to the government. And
that the foregoing resolutions be published
iri such manner as the said committee may
direfl.
By unanimous order of the meeting,
Wm. Coxe, junr. chairman.
Attefl.
Wm. Griffith, feeretary.
COMMUNICATIONS.
THE UNCUARDED CONFESSION.
Bache a few days pall affe&ed entire igno
rance of the " high officer" alluded to in
Mr. Fenno's paper as " infamous for his so•
reign correspondence." And this morning
by a fuddenillumination he afTerts, and take 3
it for granted that JeJerfon is the man
Pray did Mr. Fenno tell him so, or has Mr.
Jefferfon been complaining to him of the
blow ? In either cafe the application of
the charge'refts not with Mr. Fenno. Bache
is himfelf the author of the slander (4f foch
he deems it) against his beloved Vke-Prefi
dent.
A correspondent willies tn know if the war
speech nude by a member fr-.m New-York vef
terday, had reference to the rte&ion in that
state which is to commence on Tuesday next —
or to his furrow for parting with his dtar filler
the Republic of Franc* ?
He appeared to have the heart felt sorrow of
alarm—And the scene was truly effecting.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
Philadelphia, April 21.
Six Fer Cent. I^s
Fhree per C»nt. y;,
i-'elrrred 6 per Cent. 1 \J
BANiC Un.tcil States, per ceqt.
—; —; — I'fM'.ylvaiiii, per cent.
1 North America, jo per CcDt.
Insurance Co. Ptnnfylrimia, 7^
N. A. fbarcs joper cent.
new-theatrf/
Mr. Darley S Night*
This evening, April 2 t,
Will be preferred, tile favorite I'R.AGh.DY <S{
v ISABELLA;
Or, 7be FATAL MARRIAGE.
Count Ball win, mr mr Fenne'l
—Carlos, mr Fox—Viceroy, mr Wignell—Child,
W rrcll—Sampfon, mr Francis—Belford,
mr Warrell, jun—Officer, on Warrell—Servants,
m firs bliffett, Hunter, &c.
Ifahclla, mra. Merry—NiuriV, mrs I,'F.ft range.
11l Aft 3, an epithalamium.
The Vocal parts by Messrs Darley, Mirfhall, H»r
dinge, \V arrell—Mrs. O'd liixoti, Mrs. Warrt I
Mis» Milhourne, &c. &c.
End of A& l. The favorire Song of LUCY, by
Mr. Darley.
To which will be added, (eeverpcrformed here) a
COMIC OPERA, called
MARIAN.
[Written by the Author ef Rofina]
performed at the Theatre, Covent Garden, with
diftuignifbed spplwife.l
Sir Henry, (for that night only) mr Darley,jun.
Edward, mr Marfttli; Robin,mr Francis ; Thon:-
as, inc. Darley ; Will am, mrßliffet; Jamie, mr
Warren ; Oliver, mr Warrell.
Marian, mrs Oldmrxsn; Patty Clover, mr«
Marlball; Peggy, mrs Warrell; F.uiny, mil. Mil.
bourne ; ICitty. Mrs Hunter.
In A& 11. A DANCE incidental to the piece, (com.
pofwd hy *vlr. Byrne.)
Tickets to be had at the usual places, ar.d
of Mr. Darley, at Bulh-Hill.
C 3" On Monday, a Dramatic Romance
(never performed in America) called The
Cafl'e cf the ForeJl ; or, Spell re of the Black
Tower ; with the favorite entertainment of
The Chi/Jreij 'mile IVooil; For the Benefit
of Mrs. Warrell.
• # * Mr. Fox's Night will be on AVed
nefday next.
,J5" An adjourned meeting of the MifScnarp
Society, will he held on Monday next, at 7 o'clock
precisely, at the ?chobl Room, Church alley.
JOHN HOBSON, Secrctaiv.
apri-l 11. 2t
Innes's improved Press.
Forcopying Letters and other Writings,
J. I N N E S,
PRINTERS' JOINER,
Sack of So. 771 Dock-Jlreet, Philadelphia,
INFORMS Merchants and Gentlemen,that he
makes Presses upon an improved plan for
Copying Lctter« and all other Writings, upon
very reasonable terms.
The utility of these Prefies id too obvious ta
require any recommendation. Those intended
for public offices, counting houses, &c are cal
culated to take copies of the larpeft invoices or
other writings ; and ihefe intended for gentlemen
to copy their letters, are of so portable a size, as
to be carried in one half the comoafs of the
fmallefl travelling defic. With these improved
prefies the operation of copying may be perforn -
ed in a few minutes.
April IS. fp <3t
TO BE SOLD,
40,959 r.cres of Land-
IN Greece C t unty, Ccn.monwei.Jtli of Fennfyl
vania, on. th; waters of fifli tr.d Wheeling
Creeks and Ten Mile Ran.
These 1 ands arc. fertile and well timbered, and
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten years Ago for
five (hillings per acre ; patented early in 1787, ex
cept 370 c acres, which were patented in 179*5
part cf them w. re surveyed in 1784. The tradt
is between the Ohio and MonongaheJa vrrjr.con
venient to wliter carriage, ahout jy mile* from
the town of Wafiunjton, from 14 to 16 from the
village of Gr.-ei and Wheeling,
On payment of one iourrh of thepurchafe mo
ney, a reasonable credit will be given for the resi
due. JUiqnire of the printer
arril 2 r . ' <$
TO BE SOLD,
26,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of New York, between tlx- northern
bounds of Penr.fylvania and the Safqueh»nna,
now. or late in the townflnps of Hamdcn and
Warrea and county of Warreu. , -
1 hefe Lands, i-om th ir quality and situation,
ar« a very desirable object for any man who meant
to invert his money to advan\age.
On payment of one third of the purchase mo
ney, a reasonable credit wi 11 c given for the rcfi
due. Enquire of the Printer.
April IT. \
LOST,
A green silk Umbrella,
ALMOST new, very large and heavy, fuppof.
Ed to be left in the gallery of congrefi hall,
or in 'one (lore. Any person leaving the fame at
the office of this Gazette Jhall have two dollars re
ward, or at No. 37 Arch flr?et. aprit zt—,jt
New Publication.
A Senftble, Seafanable and Spirited
ADDRESS,
Written by a Citizen of Philadelphia—entirled,
" What is our Situation ?
AND
What our Profpe&s ?"
■A few Pages for Americans.
For Sale by WILLIAM YOUNG,
Corner ot f hef.iut and Second iirects.
And it the Office of the Editor, 119 Ch.fnut fir.
(Priee three ftxteentbs of a ibltar)
Fxtraft from the above.
" When hour by hour we are yielding
point by point ; relinquishing oae righmo
day and preparing to facrifii:e another to
morrow, these generous friends tread rapid
ly on our Heps, and every new concellioa
but opens a new demand. Rapacity yrowa
more insolent by uninterrupted success, and
timid submission invites depredation—Where
twill this end ? What offering will gorge the
appetite of plunder, or appease the rage
of uhrefifled hostility ? No civilized nation
has ever before been guilty of such outrage
■ and ins lence, no free nation hag ever be
. fore endured them."treasury department,
MARCH i, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN nurfuance of the A<ft of Csngrefs faffed on the sixth day of July onethoufand seven hundred and '
ninctv fcven o.tiilcd " An Aift laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper , and the
AA palled on the fifteenth day of December, one thousand seven hundred and niaM r -fer«,» , ■
«• An A& to postpone for a limited time the commencement of the duties imposed by the AS enti- ,
tied "An Allaying D" tits 011 Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper , that from aud "fur the ,
firft day of July ens.ing, the several Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, wiU be levied aud collec- ,
ted throughout the United States.
For every flcin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or Iheet or piece of Paper, upon which (hill be
written or printed any or either of the instrument. .r writtng.iollowing-to wit :
Any Certificate of Naturalization, 7. , 5
Any Licence to pratfice,or Certificate of the orregiftryof
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Proflor, in any Court of the
United Statel, - - - * " . 10
Provided, that a Certificjte tn any one of the Court! of the United States
for one of the said Offices, (hall so far as relates to the payment of the
duty afsrefaid, be a fufficient admiflbn in all the Courts of the United
States, for each and every of the said offices-
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United States
(except for lands granted for military fervicei) - - 4
Any .simplification or certified copy of any such grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lards granted for military services) ... a
Any Charter-Party, Bottcniry, or Rel'pondentia Bond, - - I
Any Receipt or dill barge for or on accountof any Legacy left by any Will or a
ther testamentary instrument, or for any share or part ol a perlor.al eitate di
vided by force of any flatute of diftr'rhutUns, other than to the W| fe> Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceased.the amount whereoffhall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and (hall not exceed the value of One Hun-
When the.amount thereof (hall exceed the value of Ons Hundred Dollars and
(hall not exceed five hundrad dollars, - - .
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional sum of j
Any Policy of Insurance or increment in nature thereof, on any (hip, veilel or
coods insured from one difiria to another in the United States, 1 S
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum tor which
Insurance is made (hall not exceed five hundred dollars, *S
When the sum insured (hall exceed five hundred dollars, " I
Ary Exemplification, of wh.it nature soever, tl»at (hall pals the seal of any
Court, other than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
fursifh for the use of the United States or some particular (late, - jo
Any Pond, bill Tingle or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promifiory
note or other note, otherthan any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or with the United States or any (late, or tor their
uferefpe<£lively, - - 7 " ■ "
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred Ool.ars,
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 50
And if above one thousand dollars, - - * " . " ' 75
Prrvided, that if any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or notes lhall be fubjedt to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforefaid —viz. -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 4
If aboreone hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred do,Ui s, 10
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars,
If above one thousand dollars, - " " . . 3°
Any Notes ilfi.ed bv the banks now eftablifbrd, or that may hereafter be eftab
lifted within the' United States, other than the notes of luch of the said Banks
JS (hall a»ree to an annual composition. of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders refpeflively, according to
the following scale. - - " &
On all notes not exceedieg fifty dollars, for each doliar, - -
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollar. jo
Cn all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollr.rs, - " ... 1
On all notes above five hundred dollars, 1
Any Protest or other Notarial ail, - " " . "
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfiotf, or to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
performed in the late war, - " " . * , 2 5
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs at duties, for less than
five hundred dollars, - - " " *
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars,
For more than t\vo thousand dollars, - • 3
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchaadize to be exported,
If from one diftria to another diftria of the United States, not being in the
fame State, - ." * " 10
If from the United States to any foreign.port or place, - 25
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or efF?as, made in any
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels diftrnned fori
rent cr taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal proceft by any officer,) 1 50
Any Certificate of a Share in any Instance Company, of a (hare in the Bank of
the United States, or of any State or other Bank,
If above twenty dollars and eot exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars, - " , 25
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for on? hundred dollars.
The duties aforelaid will be elicited and received by the Supervisors, Infpeaors aud other Officers
of InfpeSion i» the several Dittrid*, Sarveya and Divisions of the United states, and by such other
pcrfonsas stall from te time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diftrifls for
that purpose.
The Supervisors of the several Diftrias will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and as soon as
may be praflicable, markorftamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of the said duties ; Or
stamped vellum, parchment and paper a.ay at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rates prescribed by law, by application to any Supervilor, lufpeSor, Officer of liifpeaion,
or other o«foa appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diftriets.
or ocncr yy GIVEN under my Haud, at Philadelphia
the day and year abovementiootd. <
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secretary of the Treasury.
o3- The Members of the Socie
ty of the Sons of St. George, cftabliftied at Phila
delphia, for the advice and assistance of Englilh
men in diftrefr, —are requested to attend an Anni
v.rfary Meeting of the laid Society, at the City
on Monday, the 23d at a ©clock
in the afternoon.
GEO. DAVIS, Srcreiary.
%♦ Dinner to be on the table precisely at iour
o'clock. cot 13 d april l 4
PROPOSAL,
For Publifbing by Sulfcription,
an
E N I R Y
INTO THII
ORIGW OF EPIDEMIC DISEASES.
THE Letters to Dr. Currie, which I publi&ed
last autumn, led me to an invefligation of
the origin and phenomena of peftilsntial difcafes
in other countries as well as in the United St tes.
In the profircution of the fubjeil, new fails and
principles continually opened to Miy view, and fi
nally determined me to trice hack the hiftury of
such diseases as far as the records of hiflory ex
tend. For this purpefe, I haye examined the pub
lic libraries in New-York, New-Haven, Cam
bridge and Boston, with a viaw to obtain all the
material fails which can illustrate the fubj»it,and
I have nearly colle&ed all the materials for the
proposed work.
The fails tallied will enable me to demon
ftratc that many of the common ideas refpe&ing
peftilentialepidemics, are unfounded or extreme
ly incorrc<9 ; and this ill confcqucr.ce of medical
writers considering an epidemic disease as a detach
ed or isolated phenomenon in a particular coun
try ; rather than as connected with other epide
mics or other phenomena of nature in various
parts of the world. The fails I have collcited
lead to certain deduitions which are surprising to
myfelf, and which will probably be new to many
others. Much light will b« thiown on this dark
and perplexing fubjeil, at well as on natural phi
losophy.
The proposed work will make a full sized oila
vo volume ; and executed well on fine paper, can
not be afforded at leis than two dollars, bound,
wflh the ufoal allowance to book-feller-. At th«
compilation will cost not only great laber.but con
siderable expcnce, no more copies will be printed
than to supply fufcfcribert. The book will be rea
dy for fubhribersearly iu the coming fummcr.and
thi holders of propofa'.s will be good tnough to
return them to No. 40, Pine-ftrect, by the firftof
May.
Subscription! received by the book-fellers ir.
New-York. Philadelphia, Albany, New-Haven,
Hartford, London, Providence, Btft-in, Bal
timore and Charleftoi..
NOAH WEBSTER, JVN.
Frefli Teas.
JuJ} Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sale, By
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Compting House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,
AND BV
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At hit Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea, Souchong, Hyson, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, a fit r ted ; black and coloured Lute
strings and Sattins, Nankeens, Caflia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutcftring Umbrellas,
whale-bone flicks.
Tbcy have also For Safe,
Ell wide Persians, Bandmna Handkerchief**
French Catnbricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes
march 8. $
Now Opening,
At Willi a mM'Laws Saddle Manufa&ory,
No. 72, Chef nut Street,
A general afTortmeiit of Horseman's
Pistols, direil from the Manufailurers in London.
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holtiers, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartou.h Boxes, Va
licet, Saddle Bagt, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harneft, &c.
April 9 dtf
City Commissioner's Office,
January \ttb, 1798.
FOR THE INFORMATION OF THE CITIZENS.
r "| I HE following arrangement is made by the
X said commifiioners, for cleansing the
streets, &c.
Diftriit No. 1. —From the north fide of Vine
street, to the south fide of Mulberry street; to
be ender the fuperintendarce of Nicholas Hicks.
1 From the south fide of Mulbrry street, to
the south fide of Ckefnut ftrreet, to be under the
fuperintendance of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut street to
the north fide of Spruce street, to be under the
fuperintendance of Joleph Claypoo'e.
4. From the north fide of Spruce street, to the
feuth fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu
perintendance of Hugh Roberts.
.§5" When pumps are out of order south of
Higii-Qreet, plcafc apply to Thomas Dixey, at the
corner of South and Fifth-!lreet«, or Godfrey Gcb
ler, in Fourth, near Chefnut-ftreet ; and north of
Hi;!i street, to Dixey and Dehaven, in Saflafras
flrcct, between Sixth aud Seventh ftrcctt.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,'.
March JO to. 1 |
Public Notice it hereby given, j
THAT by anatfl qf Congrcfs paffcd 011 the
19th day of March, >798, the following
a'teratioris and amendments have been made to
the a& palled on the 6th day of July 17971 en
titled " An laying duties on ilamped Vel
" lum, parchment and paper."
The stamp duties on debentures or certifi
cates for the drawback of Customs or duties on
Imports are repealed.
w* 11.
A difeount at the rate of seven and one half
per Centum, will be allowed by the Suprrvilors
or Infpeflors refpeilively, to any persons other
than Officers of the Revenue, who may pur
chase at one time or procure to be stamped, any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment <t Paper, upon
which the duties (hall amount to Ten Dol
lars or upwards.
JII.
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold at
the rates prescribed by law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for stamped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional price will be (Jemanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each (kin of Parch
ment, or Two Hundred Cents for rack lkin of
Vellum of medium size, which may be furnilk
cd at the expense of the United States and pro
portionally for any lefler quantity.
Given under my hand, at Philadelphia! the
day and ye tr abovementioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of tbe Treasury.
Treasury Department,
March 19, 179®*
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
"~I HATpropolals will be received at the Office of
L the Secretary of the Treasury until the expi
ration of the i?th day of July next ensuing, for
the supply of all rations which may be required
for the use of the United State®, fromthe firft day of
Ocflober 1798, to the thirtieth day of September
1799, both days inclusive, at the places and within
the diftri& hereafter mentioned, viz. At Ofwego;
at Niag-ara ; at Prefque lfle ; at Michilimackinac ;
at Fort Franklin ;at Pittlburgh ; at Le Beuf; at
Cincinnati; at Greenville; atPicqueTown and
Laramie's Store; at Fort Wayne; at Fort Defi
ance ; at any place below Fort Defiance on the Mi
ami River to Lake Erie ; at Fort Knox and Oua
tanon 0:1 the River Wabalh; at Mafiac; at any
place or places on the ea(l fide of the River Missis
sippi above the mouth of the River Ohio, and up«
on the Illii.ois River ; at any place or places on the
east fide of the Mifliflippi River below the mouth
of the River Ohio to the fouthcrn boundary of the
State of Kentucky, and within the said Stati ; at
Knoxville, Tellico Block House, and at all other
Posts in the State of Tennessee; at anyplace or
places on the east fide of the River Mifiifiippi, be
low the southern boundary of the State of l ennef
tee, to thefauthem boundary of the United States.
If supplies fUa.ll be required for any posts or
places not mentioned in this fuch supplies
shall be furuifhed at prices proper tionad to those to
the posts before recited, as may be agreed on be
tween the Uhited States and th« contra&or.
The rations to be fuppHed to confifl: of th* fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour
One pound of beef or twelve ounces of pork
or bacon
Half a ji 11 of rum, brandy or whif- r
ky, one quart of Salt > two quarts ( hundr(?d
of vinegar, two pounds of soap, ( rat j on3
ons pound of candles J
The rations are to be furnilhed in such quantities,
as that there fball at all times during the said term,
be fufficient for the cooiumptiou of the troops at
Michilimackinac, Detroit, Niagara, and Ofwego, j
for the term of fix months in advance, and at each
of the other posts, for the term of at least three
months in advance, in good and wholefoaie provi
fions, if the fame fliall be required. It is t« be un
derwood, that the contra&or is to be at the ex
pence and rifle of iftuing thefuppliesto the troops
at each post, and that all lolTes sustained by the de
predations of an enemy, or by means of the
troops of the United States, (hall be paid for at
the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on
the depositions of two or more persons of credita
i ble characters, and the certificate of a commission
. Ed officer, ascertaining the circunaftances of the
loss and the amount of the articles for whiah coni
. penfation (hall b<e claimed.
t The priviledge is reserved to the United State*
of requiring that none of the supplies which may
be furnilhod under the proposed coßtra&, shall be
issued, until the supplies which have or may be
furnifhed under the contra# now in force have
b«en consumed.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
march *7- .. aawtl.tly
Bafkenridge —for faie
IT consists of 910 acres, almost all as which is
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the late
' JUrl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which are bouadedon the
Eatt by the river Pafaiek.
There are on it a number of buildings, forming
afquare of nearly three aeres—The d welling house
is a very convenient one ,and-a small expence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard confifls of 150® fin»bearing engraf
| ed Apple Trees—and there is on other pirts of said
tra<9 near 300 other Apple I'rees—as also a great
' variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
bed and snoft delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
' Forest Tress, that ad Jto the beauty and eonveni
ence of the place. Itslituation is about 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and 11 from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
1 To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in cash. on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chefnut -treet.
February >■ eodtf
: Ran away from the fubfcriber>
on the 14th inft. two indented Irift Servant Men
Thomas M'Guire, about *5 years of age, and 5
feet 8 inches high, rohuft, (lout, and well made,
fliort black hair, remarkable for a fear on one of
' his temples; he is a forward, deceitful, vicious,
and unprincipled fellow, and decoyed from my
fe.-vice Jeffry Corbet, about the fame age and
height, but of a milder disposition, and more flen
. der make, short brown hair; their working appa
; relwas blue cloth over jackets, lined with coarse
brown linon, check and brown linen (hirts, grey
yarn Pockings, mixed twilled grey cloth trowfers,
and ruffett bather (hoes ; they have other clnathing
' which altogether gives them the appearance of sea
■ faring men, but hare been brought up to the farm
' ing business; no doubt will have forged pafles and
: change their names and apparel as cosivenient, and
have taken the post road to Philadelphia, I pur
• chafed ihcm the lad fall of capt. Rollins, in Balti
' more. I will give Fifty Dollars for securing them
so that I get them, and will pay all reasonable
charges if brought home, of if separated, Thirty
Dollars for Thomas, and Twenty for Jeffry.
ARTHUR xJRYAN,
r Head of Wye, Talbot County—match 7.
March 14. _
r Hyson and Young Hyson Tea.
A few cbelkt of excellent quality, for sale, cor.
Ncr oi Second and Pine (Irects. Dec »6—eotf 4
The Annual Ele&ion J
1)0 R Dire&ors and a Treasurer of the Library I
1 Company of Philadelphia, will be held at the 1
Library, in Fifth ftrcct, on Monday, the 7th of
May next, at three o'clock in the afternoon, when
the Treaiarer will attend to receive the annual
payments.
A# there arc several (hares on which finei are
due, the owners of them, or their representatives,
are hereby notified, that they will be forfeited, a
greeably to the laws of the company, uriefs the
arrears are paid off on the said 7th day of May,
or within ten days after.
by ord*r of thw Dire&ors,
BENJaMIN R. MORGAN, Secretary.
_ April 7 3aw .
Notice —Agreeably to charter,
Is hereby given to the members of " the eor
poration for the relief of .poor and distressed
prelbyterian ministers and the poor and diilrefied
widows and children o{ prelbyterian miuHters,
that a meeting of said. corporation is to be hold
cu, on the 16th day of May next, at 4 o'clock
P.M. in the second prelbyterian church in the
city of Philadelphia, for the dilpatch of all such
bufinef* as may then be brought before the
board. ASHBEL GREEN,
Secretary of the Corporation.
April 7. tawti6m
Pennsylvania Hofpkal,
4th mo. Ith, 1798.
rHE Contributors to the Pennlylvania Hospi
tal, are to meet on the seventh day of next
Month, being the second day of the week, at the
said Hospital at three o'clock in the afternoon, to
tleiSl twelve Managers and a Treasurer, for the
ensuing year.
By order cf a board of Managers.
;SAMUEL COATES, Stc'ry.
April 7- dtF.
Valuable iStands for Business.
FOR SALE—by the Subfcriler,
Two Lots of Ground,
Situate on the fauth fide of Chefnut-ftreet, be
tween Second and Third (Ireets: —one containing
t ighteen feet, and the other tevente 11 feet, more or
ess, 011 the said street, and both extending, the
irVie breadth, one hundred and forty-eight, more
or less, to Carter's alley.
There are, on Chefnut-ftreet, two two-story
BRICK HOUSES
(Numbers 80 and 81)
Which may readily be made into one ; and, on
Carter's alley, there ii a convenient, well built
three-story
Brick House and Kitchen,
Almost new, which has two rooms on a floor
and a front of eighteen feet on said allay.
This property is clear 6f ground-rent, and an
indisputable title will be given to the purchaser.
The three Houses will be fold separately or toge
ther.
Further particulars may b« known on appllcar
tion to
ZACHARIAH POULSON, jvn.
No 80, or at the Library,
march 43. fefiSw^
A House and Lot in Dover.
for sale,
A LOT pF GROUND, situate on the east fide
of the main street, running through the town
of Dover, in Kent county, in the State of Dela
ware, about thirtv or forfy yards below Captain
Furbee's Tavern, containing in front on said fireet
thirty four feet, and extending in depth eastward
twelve perches, together with the buildings there
on ereSed, which cor.fift of a good brick house,
two stories high, well finiflied, with two rooms a
bout seventeen or eighteen feet square each, and a
paflage eight or ten feet wide on the firft floor ;
three rooms with a palfage above, and good gar
rets, the cellars are excellent, one of which is used
as a kitchen; a back brick building with two rooms
above and below about ten or twelve feet by four
teen j the tipper rooms of this building communi
cate above stairs with the paflage of the house :
A brick (moke house, and a good pump of water
in the yard, and a garden adjoining.
The Honfe is in every refpeit as comfortable as
any in Dover, is in a good situation,
and now occupied by John Freeman, as a tavern,
with the sign of the Eagle.
The terms will be reasonable. Apply to Dan
iel Mifflin, at Camden, near Dover, or to thefub
fcriber, No 60, North Eighth-street, Philadelphia.
CADWALADER EVANS.
march 17. tus^w
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, piopofing to contraA hit busi
ness, offers this Estate for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreiog Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair ot ftoncs i also a good Forge, all
in perfeft repair, as are all the Water Works conne£i
ed with tbefe various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built for tbe purpose of casting Cannon
for this State.—There are about two thousand acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Pasture. The Cannon lately manufactured there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
(uperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one of fixty-nuie guns
lately made, although some of the 34 were bored
into 32 pounders, have failtd on proving. The fuu
ation is very eligible,.particularly for this branch of
mar.ufafturc, and a place of arms lying in the date
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from several land,
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water issuing
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can beaCcommodat
ed wiih all theftocfeand utensils, and have pofTeiTion
onor before the fitft of Junenexl, and prepisation
may be madein the meantimeforgoinginto Ulafl im
mediately thereafter, for every pait will be deliveied
in good order, w:th some coal, Ore, &c. &c. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David ijrooks, Elq. one of the Reprefenta:-ives
in Congress for this State ; Mr, D.ivki Waterman, on
thepremifes, ortotheproprietorin N'w-York.
WILLIAM NEILSOX.
Dee. 1. 3a»tf
Valuable Property for Sale.
FOR SALE,
THAT well known Mate, called SHREWS
BURY FARM, fornnrly the residence of
General John Csdtralader, situate on Safljftis Ri
ver, in Kent caunty, Maryland—containing a
bout 1900 acres of prime LAND, upwards of 500
of which are in woods. Th« BuildiHgs are all ex
cellent, and consist of a handfone Dwelling House,
two large Barns with Cow houses, Sta'oiesfor fifty
horses, a spacious treading floor under cover, a
granary, two Overseer's lioufos, two ran
ges of two story buildings 'for Negroes (ore of
them new and of brick), Corn hotifes, a Smoak
houft , Ate. &c. —The whole Estate being nearly
farrounded by water, it requires but little fer-inj;,
andhas a good Shad and Herringfifhciy. It is
conveniently situated fcr both the Philadelphia and
Valtimore markets, with two landings c.n a navi
gable river but a fliort failfrom Baltimore. There
is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
the piemifts; also, a variety of excellent fruits of
different kinds. The foil is rnoftly a rich loom.—
The whole will b« fold together, or divided into
smaller farms (for which the buildings are conven
iently situated) as may suit the purchaser. The
Stock on said Farm, consisting of Horses, Cattle,
sheep, Ate. will also bedifpofsdof. For further
particular, apply to Gkokos Hastings, on the
premises, or to the fubferiber, in Philadelphia-
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jun.
February H. *aw6w
LOST,
THIS morning inor near the market, aLacy'a
lied Morocco Pocket Book with a Silver
Clasp, about half worn,in which ware two Ten
Dollar Bank Notes andfundry papers, ufeleftto
any but the owner. If the person who found,
it will leaw it and the contents with the printer
hereof, they will be lewarded with one of the
notes.
a pril x 8 *3*
FOR. SALE, ~~
ir the sußscßißißs, No. M» Penn-flreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
of I
Baftas, of various.qualities and prices,
ColTaes Punjum Cloths
Sanah* Cuzzry do.
Humhuras Charconna Dorea
Bl«e Cle-th Tanjtbs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls
Mamoedys Checks
Maliartgonges Patna Hkfs.
Gingham* Maknul do.
Guzzeuas Bandannoes
Gurrabs Siflerfoy
Piniafcoes Choppa Romall
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Perfiansof various col.
Muck Pulicats
too tons SUGAR
9 e,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willing.s if Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
commodious llore the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-streets.
Alio —A few Bales cf Madrkfs Hkfs. »f ele
gant patterns and belt colours.
February 8. dtf
IMPORTED,
In the Brig Ben ja m i n Frahkliit, fraim
Boutdeaux,
AMD fOR SALE BY THE SUSSCHI 11 E R ,
Claret in calks
White wine in half calks
Sweet oil of a superior quality in boxes and balkeM
Lunelle ">
Sauterne ( w; „ e , in Ca ses.
Macarty, and (
Medoc J
Thomas Murgatroyd,
No. ii, Walnut Street#
WHO HAS ON HAND,
Bourdeatn: Brandy in pipes Intitled
MSoT"Ss., OT } i drawback
Sherry wine in pipes and quarter calks
Rota
Pimento in bags
Two trunks of Umbrellas, and
About 4Coohufliels Liverpool Salt.
march 19 __ mw&fcf_
Red Clover Seed as thebeftquaKty.
MADEIRA WINS.,
Old, and fit for immediate use, in pipes, half
pipes and Quarter calks.
Teneriffe Wine,
And, Window Glafs —all of which will be fold
on very reafouable terms, by j
John Craig,
march I wstf No. 11, Dock Street.
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands against
the estate of Wiluam Flretwoob, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceafecl, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly attelltd'; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, to
Tanuary 4. dtf
Just Publiflied,
And to be had at the Book-stores of MelTrs. Dob
som, Campbell, Young and OiuxoD,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caules and Cure of Remitting er Bilious
Fevers.
To Vihtch is annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and pra&iceof
different authors: and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interefling h£t» and teffe<3ions relative to
the Synocbvs Ifieroiici, or Yellow Fever, which
has occasioned so much distress and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the seaport
towns of the United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felbw of the Philadelphia College of Phyficiana,
and Member of the American Philolophical So»
ci«ty. Feb. I—*3m§
JUST RECEIVEb. '
And for sale by W.Young, corner of Second
and Chrfnut-ftreet, M. Carey n8 Higli-ftreet
T. Dobfon, 41 South Second-ftreec and the
Boekfellers generally,
(Price 5-Bths of a Dollar.)
BEACON HILL,
A Local Potm, historic and deforiptive 1
By a Lady of Bojlan.
ANALYSIS O » BOOK 1.
Allusion to the furreunding ProfpeA—lnvocation
to the River and sylvan Deities—to the Hiftorie
Mufc—FiAkn discarded—Dedication to Walb
ington —The Afiion opens at the Retreat of the
Columbians! front Bunker's Hill—General Howe
—The Memory of his Brother.—Death of War
ren—Perfnnification of Frrttme and Fame—
Walhir.gron at Mount Vernon—called to the
chief Command—Formation of the Columbian
Camp at Cambridge—Natural, moral, or poli
tical History of the ftveral States—Their com
manding Officer'—Siege of Bolton—lts Suffer
ings—Negotiation for the fife RerrrSt of the
Ecitilh Aiiray—lt* Departure—Appointment of
Congrcfs—rDeclaration of Independence—Chs
ra<sEcr of tbe- Columbian Soldies—The Poet's,
prophetic Apofcroplie to the Pregref> of Free
dom fhrot.gh*ut the World,
march 30. §
j~~ FOR SALE,
ALL that elegant three 8 dry Brick House, brick
Kitchen and Lot of Ground situate on tho
south weft comer of Fourth and Prune ttreets,
containing in front on Fourth Ilreet feet, and
in length on Prune flre«t 98 teet, to a four feet al
ley intended to be left open with common privi
lege of, the Csme.
Also, a two story brick House and Lot of Ground
situate on the well fide »f Fourth fireet and ad
joining the above, containing in breadth en Fourth
ilreet - 5 ftet 6 inches, and in depth 98 feet on the
said four feet alley, with the common psiv»le<je» of
the ftroc.
And also, all that Lot of Groaud situate en the
weft" fide of Fourth tlreet and adjoining the last
described lot, containing in breadth on Fourth
Ilreet 15 feet 6 inches, and in depth on the north
fide *O2 feet, thence running southward II feet 6
inches, thence farther well ward 13 fret, thence
Sill further southward 14 feet, and thence by the
Chapel ground 1 s 4 feet to Fourth ftrcrt, with the
common us* of the said four feet alley leading in
to Prune street The whole will be lold together
if more agreeable to the purchaser.
For terms, enquire of the fubferiber, at his of
fice, No. I*4 South Foarth street.
ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER.
December *«. §