Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
' fJuMBSX 1726.J
Freight Wanted. {
FOR BRF.MKN.
The Hamburgh Brig
*j|s§>* Henrietta,
Peter P. Schwidt, Mtijler,
OW lying U Jcffe and R. Wain's whtrf—K '
fcort, strong vessel, el attest ijo ton, W 1
{he*, ik good &rirr I h«« rwo third* erf her cargo
load 1 to go 00 board, and begins to kiidtS-raorrow.
Tv trotgbi only, apply to '
.'■ PRATT tf K.INTZING, 1
No $5, North Wat r-ftreet.
m> h**< JUST RECEIVED, and F»tc SALE, 1
12 Valet Titkleburgs and Ozn&brigs
« do. Vatterbornee
I do Meacheri HeSaat '
I package Oil Cloth
1 theft and i barrels Snuff Boxet
30 Liquor Cafel
*9 anchort pearl Barylc, and
4 cases elegant Carriage Hirhels, Whips,
Spurs, See;
—the* uati rot sale—
Claret in cifLv Port inc in pipes, Raffia Soap
kt fcnallboaea, Rice, Britnßone, Tamblcri, Win
dow G'aft, Slates, a cargo of excellent Mahoga
ny, HeflSans, Brown Rolls, Potifti Linens, empty
Coffee Fags, Sit 4c. all entitled to the drawback,
march i© > tuthstw
For NEW-YORK,
S H,
JkSSeSSIL Captain Coopik.
FHSIGHT will t>* taken on very low tsrtns, if
offered immediately.
JOHN VAUGHAN.
march 17. $
For NEW-YORK,
The £»<: faffftiH* g flloop
CONCORD,
ymSxziiK' Stephen Cahoone, mtjltr ;
«.SSu* WILL take freight on very
moderate terms; for which, or paflage (having
elegant accommodations) apply to the mailer on
board, at Clifford's wharf.
march it. *ft
For Sale,
MSy HARRIOT,
NOW lying at Rnffel's Wars
Burthen 77 tons—three years old, built of the best
materials and i« well found—would answer wall
ftr a coaster, asfce hat excellent accommodations,
for term apply to
Gurntf &f Smitk.
march 15 , .. . / $ .
For Boston,
iMh Ti# Skip
COMMERCE,
JqpwjjlMV Jt«hard Waifttost, Majltr.
To fail ia a few dfys.
Any freight that may offer,
wHI be taken oa v«*y moderate terms , for which,
or paffago, apply to the Captain, or to
Jftttt fltriy, /«*.
j, South Water-flreet.
march if. li\ s«w_
FOR SAT-l,
THE »Rt«
Wed Indian,
Philadelphia built, live oak and
eacar, i» coppered, fbeathed and bejted, J yaacs
old, fails remarkably well, earrlet ij » i6o« bar
rels—now lying at louth-ftreet wharf, ready to
bed PITER BLtOHT.
matoh 6. |
For Hamburgh,
miiiif
Dominick Tirrt,
Jaco» DmAfcT, Majltr,
Hirifij gr**t ptrlof her targofn"
For frtight apply to »■
Jijfc €sc Robert Wain,
febaaary >6 <
Nicklin tf Griffith,
At their Store on Walnut Street Wharf—■
nave FORe4L«,
58'hhdi. of Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wiaeia pipes aad hhdi.
Teneriffe do. in pipe*
Old Port do. in hhd»»
Imperial Tea in quarters and eighths ef eheits
Sail Canrafs, No. i, to 8
Dimities, Ginghams, and Muflinets, in paeta
ges suitable for the Weft-India market
Nails assorted 1
Black quart bottles
Queens ware in hhd». and eratee
Yellow ochre dry ia casks ;
And at New-York, on board the
ihip Diana, from Liverpool, expeifted round
ai soon as the navigation i» open.
Fine Liverpool Salt
Coali
Spintfh Brown 1
Venetian Red I
Purple Browa I p AI t(TS
Patent White f
White Lead
Red Lead J
Colcothar vitriol
160 bundles Sheithing pap*
Seaming Twine
For Sale or Charter.
A U ■ ®»
Brig Amazok.
phHip Nicklia & Co.
i#n9W Nicklin
January 1. * odtf -
For Sale or Charter,
GOOD HOPE
hFw?I»» Will carry about itoo barrels, and
jafPsS' is ready totakc in a cargo. For terms
" Prapr, Ei Co.
No. 151. South Secoad-flreet.
' Who havener sale-prime St. Croix Supr
and Rum, Madera, Lifoori, aad Teneriffe wine.
Noveiuber 7.
PHILADELPHIATHURSDAY EVENING, MARCH 22, I*9B.
On Tuesday, the 10th day of
April next, at 7 o'clock in tbe ereaing, «t
thf City Tavern, Second Street, ia the Cist
of Philadelphia,
WILL be expo fed to public sale, {eventeca
UaAs or parcels of land ftnj*';d in Point
township in tbe county of snJ
eonUiiHog in th« whole fi»thr._-Upd fcten hun
dred a-ad Cxty-four acres and quarters,
wkh the afual aHowanee for reads.
Ternie of sale, i-j of the purc)safif T«»ney on
the execation of the deed, 1-j in theee ttoaths,
and 1-3 in fix months, in good uotes of other
approved, fecarity.
CONNELLY £3* C». A**.
March 9. nwtii dtloa
IMPORTED^
Ir tH« Brig Ben jam im FRAMKLiH,from
Bourdeatix,
and »o» sal a a> Tat muetiut,
Claret in eafic*
j White wine in half ea&a
sweet oil of a in boxes and bafcett
Lunelle >
Saaterne / . „ ,
Micarty, and ( Wu.es ui Cases.
Modoc J
Thomas Murgatroyi %
No. 11, Walnut Street.
WHO HAS •* HA**,
Bourd:aiix Brandy in pipes In titled
Irilh market > .... . . C to
Medoa, and in! ' > 1R C 1 * j drawback
Sharry wins in pipetaad quarter calks
Rota
Pimento io bags
Two trunks of Umbrellas, and
About 4000 bu'lheis I iverpool Salt.
march mwScftf
Forgeries Committed.
WHP.Rb.AS feveralfoagenes have, "bee* com
xcitted in this city by one.or
known by the names of Dr. Grant t. ;i«s ttuitH,-
alias Gilbert, Grant generally woro a green coat,
tall in parson, and genteel, had loft one or two
tieth in front ; lodged, about July, 1796, at Mr.
Grimes's tavern, at the George, in North Second
ftreet ; his friends live in New-England ; suppos
ed to have committed several forgeries in New-
York, and is said to be confined at the wheel-bar
row at Baltimore for Healing watches. Ihe other
is a lhort, thick man, by the name of Gilbert,—
known by Mr. Grimes and Mr. Bignall, and levc
ral other perfoas in this city. Information given
by any person of the above men, to Wm. PaitT
mas, No. 15, South Fifth-ftreet, will be elleem
ed a favor. • - Gilbert it between aa and 30
years old; yellow, sickly look.
m rch IT. 'jlwjw
Red Clover Seed of the beftquality.
MADEIRA WlUt,
Old, aad fit for immediate ufc, ia pipes, half
pipes and Quarter calks.
Teneriffe Wine,
And, Wiudow Gltfi—all of wbieh will be Sold
00 very reasonable terms, by
John Craig,
No. iz. Dock Street.
march I wßt»tf
r 1 ""HE term of Co-partnerihip between the fub
1. feribers, trading under the firm of John Mil
ler, jun. and Co. expires this day, and by matual
eonfent wiH not be renewed' - The debts and con
cerns of the fra»«will b« fettled by John MiHer,
Jun. to whom all those indebted,to the partnerlhip',
are earnestly reqaefted to makepayment to, with
out delay.
JOHN MILLER, J u n.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
February >8 }tf
LANDING,
Fron •» Hoard the Ship Suit, from
Calcutta,
AM» V9R fill »▼ Til
1600 bags prime Sugar*.
809 de. Ginger
30 bales low priced piece Goods.
John MHier, Jun.
marsh j 5
FOR SALE, *r
John Miller, jun.
No. S, Chefnat-flreet,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
—.aaovsiT wntoa »n
Gurrahl Mameodiea
Baftas S annas
Guzaenas Tanda Coffaes
Guzziet Emcrtica
Blue Cloths Calicees
Palampoors Romall Handkerchiefs
Amongst them aVe a great proportion of thema
nulaAures of Pate*.
British Dry Goodi,
ALSO,
Fofty ptsncheons of high proof Rum.
February 19 . . ?
Alex. J. Miller & James Davis,
Hiving entered into partuerlhip under the firm of
Alexander J. MiHer & Co.
INFORM their friends in town and tountry, that
they have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South Trent Street, Philadelphia ; whers
they now have;, and intend kceeping a general af
foitment of India, Gtrmau, Irijk, Frtrub and Bri
tijh Manufa&aresfor sale, oa advantageous tcrmt
for ca(h or a fhert credit.
February 1% jtf ;
The Commifliont rs
FOR carrying into effeflth* TWF.N I Y FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Friendlhip, Limits,and
Navigation, betwesn HisCatholie Vlajefty and the
United Statesof America, hereby give information
to all Persons .therein concerned —I hat in order
to terminate all differences, on account of theloff
es sustained by the citizens of the United States, in
, conlcqucnce of their Vessels nd Cargoes having
been taken by the SubjeA- of His Carholic Majes
ty, during the late war between Spain and Franc:,
• that they are ready to receive (author Office, be
tween.thehours of ten and one o'clock, daily) all
complaints and applications. authorized by the said
Article, dur/ngiiapttEN mostbs, from the day
' of the date hereof, and that they have power to
cxan'.iue allfuch perfops a» come before them, on
aath or affir&ation, touching the complaints in
quettion, and also to receive In evidence, all writ- '
ten testimony, <»utheoticated in such manner as
they shall think proper to or adaut.
JftOrJtr »/ tbt Conniljti' en,
1 "PETER LOHRA, Snrttary.
a»mmifanrr, OJjiit, Nt. IQQ, M.Ucrrj
ftnet, May 17'*. 1797- , , „ ,
Feb. aS, 98 —Jim
», * Tbt/c Printtrj in th frutrtl Statti ivht fuilijl
;d th iiwe aivirtiftlAnt laji Sprint, arc io
H one manih, mi fend titir meeunU to f. L.
By John Fenno, N c ii 9 Cbefimt Street.
LANDING
Frtrn on btard the Scbocner Rjr;Gtt, from
230 Bzgi, containing 30,000 »t. Co®*,
For Fale hi
SAMUEL HAYS,
No. 117 Chefnut-ltreet-
Wha hss temiiwini on Jund «,roo piece* Irr
dia NANKEifiS, of a Gjpenor quality.
'5- «Wt
just RECEIVED,- Ju '
From so* T- a w-r kiwc K, v
And fOtt SALE, by <*e Sl/BSC/llCggS, *
110 hhds. Coffee
ii tierces 4. >. .
xo© barrets i>. - !
100 hags do
110 heglheaik of Mufcovada SogSr
80 barrels of do.
40 fcogfhesds of Molafles
4 belai of Cottoa
a kogtieads of Cocoa
WILLINGS & FRANCIS,
Penn-ftrect.
I m>rch »>• -J
lEanding from on board the fliip
| Tenoe'iee, eapt. Smith, fsoru Hamburg, -v
And FOR SaLS by the »SoßsctißEKg,
325 pieces Quadruple*Silelus
400 do. Platil'as
too do Creas >
Si do. do. Ala Morlaix
l<so tio. Dowlas
20 do. red ftripod A raktae
*0 <O. blue Guingai - ;
too dozen bordered Handkerchiefs
Erie & Lttuit Boilmann,
f aj, South rbird-ftfeet.
ALSO, ON HAND,
A oast of printed Muslin* and Ctiitoep
march ia. >g t
FrcllTTcas. ~
Jujf Imported, in the Jhip Dtltware,
Captain Cooper, frona Caatoß,
And For Sals, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At His Cowptiag House, No. 54, Chefaut-dreet,
aitd it
BAM. E. HOWELL,
At bis Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohca,Souchong,Hyfon, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skia, aad Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, a (farted; black aad coloured L«te
ftringe and Sattins, Naakeens, CaCa, large gmrdeu
and common Fans, fattin snd lateftricg Umbrellas,
whale-bone kicks.
Tier batt also tor Salt,
Ell wide Pertans, Bandaoaa HaaJkerckiefs,
Preach Canabricks and Uaabrellas, lagar in boxes,
march I. j
To-morrow will bt Landed,
froaa oa board the brig Benjamin Fraaklia, eapt.
Joaes, frona Bordeaux,
Claret of superior qutlitr, vii.
MEDOC ") Of tbe vintages of rjjcVnd 17JI,
LATOUR / in cafaa
ALSO,
WHITE WINK, of the vintage of Iffe
roa tan av
PHILIPS. CRAMOND J|P C..
march 7. j
FO R SALE, "
i* THE tUßtcaißEßs, No. n, Penn-ftrect,
The Cargo tf the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander, from Bengal,
Confifling of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Coffaes 1 Punjum Cloths
Sanahs Guxzeydo.
Humhemi Charconna Darea
Blae Cloth Tanjibi
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmols
Maraoodys Cheeks
Mahiragonges Patna Htfe.
Ginghams Malmu! do.
Guzzenaa Bandannoea
Gurraha Siflerfoy
Piniafcoes Cboppa Rofflali
Salgatckys Sooty do.
Gillie Roraalt Perfuns of Marions col.
Mack Pulicats
too tens SUGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willings Franeis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Gangei are now open to sale at that
coanmod.ous store the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-flreets.
Also—A few Bales of Madrafs Hkfs. of ele
gant patten s and best colours.
February 2. dtf
. ROSS & SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a quantity «f Bengal CO TTOIi
Bengal SUGAJi, in lagi aik4 boxes
Jamaica,
St Vincents, > RWM,
and B'-wgal j
toocafk* RICI, •«<!
A prrcetof ftip building REO CEDAR.
oa -.7 1_
Landing
From on board the Snow Maria, from Copen
hagen,
A few Tom Rulfia Cleaa Hemp
o pieces Havens Duck
150 pieces Rnffia Sheeting
»oo bolts Russia Duck, and
A quantity of Swedes Iron
For Sale by
JOSEPH ANTHONY C«.
IVbobdveon Hand,
ift and id proof Bourdeeux Braody
4th proof Spanish ditto
Kew-Ei'gland Rum
London Madeira Wine in Pipes
lo„J.nM„k„ >
Old Claret in Cases .
14 hhds. Coffee just arrived
Best Bcflon Beet inbsrrela
Mackrell ia do.
Halifax Salmon in do.
A fnull Invoice of Rhode-lflaodCheefe
Spermaciti Oil
TanUrrs ditt^
No. 1, », 3; Boston Sail Duck
Russia Cordage, and
An Invoice of Dutch Hollow Glass ««»*.
March 1. ' diw
CONGRESS
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, j J
MISSISSIPPI TZURITOzf.
Tuci'clay, March 29, *
Th« Houie being in u coinmirtct of wlt.4e 1;
on the bill tor an amieaWe tettloAe'RrvrtK tl
rait* with the (fate of Georgia, and aurtiori- h
-Cttg tlic elfublfthtnent of a Qotemlben% in H
the tlie bill was icad e
ai tallows: ti
Setl.j. Be it enacted, &c. Thai the Prejt
dent »f tbe United States be, and tie is hereby aa- tt
tbyrixed to af point three cuumiffiintrs ; any tun* t
tf iuio/n Jlall have pvunrtQ udjujt and deter- e
mine, •with filch romnuffiiriefs as may be appoint- y
ed under the legi/Jative authority of the state of t
Georgia, all interfering claims of tbe United States l,
and that state, to territory-situated uoeft of the* f,
river Cbatahoucbie, north of tbe thirty-firft de- i
grce *f north latitude, and jouth of the cession t
made to the Untted States by South-Carolina :- t
And tip) ti obtain and accept, through the said \
commijfcners, or other-wife, a rritn<pctfbment <rr [
cession % the tubole or any part of the territoty )
both as ti jurifd.it ion and foil claiuuctby or under 1
tbe fate of Georgia, and out of tbe ordinary j*. t
nfditiion thereof. ' t
Sect. 2. Belt furthereaafted, Tuat all tbe t
lands thus Ceded ar fecurcd to the United Statet, t
shall be disposed- of in fuib manner as fbalt be |
hereafiei a -ee/c'l by la tu; and tbe nctt proceeds 1
thereof Jbal\ be -opptied t» the fntipg and drf- •><
charging the ■j.ubtte debt of tbe United States, ift 1
tbe Jume muHHet s.s the fr«ceedf r of thaother put* |
lie land! in the territory north %ueft the rn/er \
Ohio. ' ™* I
Se£L 3- Be it fwtffeer ena. That alt that <
tratl tf country bounded op thfwefl by tbe Mf-. .j
tiflppi ion tbe north by Aline nbe drawn due j
eaji from tbf mbv'b of thK. Yazort it the Ch.ita- ,
douche n*ttr j em the rati by tie titter. CbttHtbou- <
cbee ; and on the Juutb by the thirty-f'li icgrct of 1
north Ica'uutle, fbait be, and. hereby it i tajJuuteU 1
one difirid, to be called tbe Mijfrjfippi territory : j 1
And the Prejident of tbe United Statet is hereby 1 j
authorized to ejiabifh therein s government in | .
all rejpetts fmilar to that nolo exercised tn the
territory north "weft of the river Ohio, exrepting
and excluding the la ft article of tbe ordinance
made for the government thereof by the late Con
gress, on the thirteenth day tf July, one tbeujand \
seven hundred and eighty seven, and by and with
the advice and conjent if tbe Senate to appoint
all the necejaiy officers therein, tvbo fball respec
tively receive tbe fame compensations for their
fervicet; to be paid in the fame manner as by
lauu eflablifhed for Jimil'ar officers in the territtry
north vuejt of the river Ohio ; and tbe powers,
duties and emoluments tf a Juperintendant of In
dian affairs for the foutbern department, fball be
united with those of Governor: Provided al
ways, 'that tf tbe Prejident of tbe United States
fbould find it mtfl expedient to eflablifh this gt•
vernment in the recess of Congress, hejhall never
theless have full potuer to appoint and commission
all officers herein authorized ; and their commijfi
ons fball continue in force until the end of tbe
fejjitn of Congress next ensuing the ejlablifbment of
the government.
Sert. 4. That tbe territory hereby conjlituted
one diflritl for the purposes of government, may,
at tbe discretion of Comgreft, be hereqj'ter divided
intt two diflrifts, ivitb Jeparaf£_ territorial go
vernments in each, fimilai 10 '^ at efabitfhed by
this act. ♦
Sett . S • That the ejlablifbment of this govern
ment fball, in no refpefl, ithpair the right of tbe
state of Georgia, or of any person or persons claim
ing under it, either to the jurifd'tilion or the foil
of tbe said territtry, but the rights and claims of
tbe said Jlate, and of all persons intertfled, are
hereby declared to be as firm and available, as if
ibis all had never been made.
Sett. 6. Tnat the Jum often thousand dollars
be, and hereby is appropriated, for the purpose
of enabling the Prejident of the United States tt
carry into effect the provisions of this ad; and
that the said sum be paid tut of any monies in the
Treasury not otheruvife appropriated.
Mr, Milledce moved to strike out the
words •' or under," in the last line but one of
the firft feftion, as no per/on lwd any legal
claim upon any part of that territory, and the
retaining them would seem to fanttion claims
which had been declared not to exilj, and
would be oft'enftve to the state of Georgia.—
Two dift'erent claims had been pretended, but
they had been declared by- the.Xegi/lature to
be null and void, and he, -a# a reprcfentative
of that state, declared there was no claim up
on it.
Mr. Hamper, wasoppofed to Stilting out
tliefe words. Whether the claim;, of certain
individuals upon this territory were well or
ill founded, was not now the qneltion, their
validity muftbe detcrmiiieAia a'Court of Juf>-
tice. That there did exist cla.ms, in which a
great number of persona were interelled, was
well known j and the question was whether,
when the United Stateswere about to make an
amicable settlement with the state of Georgia,
it would not be good policy to hold out also
an accommodation with those persons. Nor
could he believe that the of Georgia 1
could take offence at this. The United States
come forward to the state of Georgia, and fay
you have a claim to a large territory, to part
of which we lay claim, to other parts we have
none, but we know that certain individuals
have claims upon it. It is the defue of the
United Slates to put an end tp this dil'pute.—
I Should we agree with you for the Cession of
this territory, »pd be placedui yourlituatioi,
then we shall l>ave on our hands the litigation
with the persons who claim upon you, and
will fettle thie buliuefs with them as well as
we can. he said, could have no other
appearance than that the Government of the
UnitedStateswere deflrous of accommodating
a difference which might not otherwise beea
fily fettled. A negociation would, of course,
take place betwixt the United ttates and
Georgia. That state Could not be expetted
to cede this territory without an adequate
compertfation, and when they had obtained
this, t>ur fettling any difference with persons
whs lay claim to a part of this territory, could
tvot affect that state, and the retaining of these
words would fliew to tin persons claiming,
that though the United States would not al
low their claim, they were willing to refer it
to amicable settlement. A very powerful part
of Georgia, said he, are interested in 'these
claims. S«les have been made, or alledged
to be made, to a nuinberof co-.iipanies, which
included a great variety of characters and iri
terefts, conliderable for their number and for
the.r activity. How will this clause operate
upon that class of men i The state of Geor
gia, we know, has 4«n:ed their They
lay tiie irt by whith tlii fttle Was made Wal
ebtaincdby fraud, and was voconftitutional.
These men, therefore, hive no hop? whilx
Georgia pofTclTes this territory j but if tl»<
Uoitsdtjiattfs bold o.at in ibis ait the idea cf
an amicable fculeroeot witfcthem, would they
•oi be enhfted in behalf ol the ccHion ; and
tbk by t*Cr w'ordb in ihi WJ\ Weforrth* cow
b<3 ftad' no inrevelii#
tlie/e chinfs. There was a period lAfch-.h
he had ail iaterefl in thmj butwbeft tin re
was a profpeft in the yei(r 1795 «f the bullae®
cbtuing before Oongreli, hegaVettp hi»rig«i*
to them.
Mr. Ven ABLE was'in favour of the amend.-
ment. It was as much greater important*
than tlfc yentleniaii tiom South Carolina feeui
ed to tfcinkit. He asked übfeiher gentlcmefr
were prepared to appropriate a f^ n * of tnoncy
to fatiil'y theie Georgia purchasers, whicß
would not be less than half a million ot dol
iih. £iay, he fuppolied it would be conlideri
| -W>le more, as part of the laud had been Jold
i out by the original purchal'ers, an 1 ! conlideia
| ble advances made, all Which, fctuiffpofed, it
tvas the intention of the bill to rcJEund. Ih#j
individual* having declined to wk« back tb«
half million of d»lljus which they had paid,
for the Uud, cfiufing rattier to rjlk the w,Uole
than give up their claim, it nuy be expected
thev willbe hit,U iji.theii demands. Believing
that fJltfc words were introduced with a V '*J*
of inctcmn fyitig the lands;
he thought it important thiCt tliff> Ihould 09
ftrnck out., lie believed, biiidcs, tliatit
■"Would never be a profitable .tiling tor the U»
mted States to go into tl» - purclia c ot back
lauds. They upon a certain,
tats hi any iucil fpecuUr.orf. The expence*
attending the (ales, ihedißiculty ot colU4tiu a
"iiioney, mWv<nc»es, <StC. were coulidewiWMW
• Efficient tv deter the gpvexmneni trow «nga
ging in such a bu/intis- Bebi'es, if this a
mendiHent wjs agreed, and Georgia wade
cellion of this territory lu the United States,
the '■*<•'"|f "i individual* woiild to" 1 'l l ®
fame ground as Actors 'net-, —l'
1 claim was good it would ftilPttmatA io; a-id
1 if not good at present, it ought never to bo
j good. He hoped, therefore, the amendment
would obtain.
Mr. Nicholas could scarcely believe that
there could b« a feriou* intention in any part
of the eommittee to give the propoleu po'.vef
' to the Coinmilliouer s to be appoiuteu utluer
this law, via, to bind the Unttcil ataics to any
amount, not only to the ttate of Georgia, but
to individual claimants 011 this territory. Ana
is it, said he, a bulinetsot this magnitude that
engages lo Little the attention ol the commit
tee i It this was the object of the bill, it was
one of the molt important quettions upon
which he had ever been called to act; but he
could scarcely think the lubjeCt could be ot
such magnitude, when f.c recollected
the gentleman from South Carolina had Hated
was the advantage to be derived to the United
States from entering into this engagement—it
was that thete perfous would ule their influ
ence with the ttatc of Georgia to nuke th«
surrender. It was a little remaikable that tor
r f 0 little, the gentleman ihoifld be inclined to
give so much, indeed, uiltead 01 this gaining
' any advantage to the United States, the gen
tleman from Georgia had ltated mat even to
• glance at theft claims would be ortenlive to
that state. Before this p»wer was given to
' the Commifiioners, the;- committee ought to
be ready to appropriate at lealt a million ot
dollars for the pur pole. He thought it would
' be vsry imprudent ta embark in any such
(peculation, and thereby pledge themlelves to
1 provide money to any amount which it may
r please these Commiluenery to itipulate for.—
We have, (aid lie, land enough already, and
r need not purchase more ; elpecially as we finti
a flow sale for what we have. It Uiejunldic
tion was wanted, let it be Itipulated lor.iepa
rately, and not think ot fco.ng to purctiale an
1 immense territory, one half ot which n e hav«
a claim to already, whillt we have several
millions of acres n.ore than we know w hat tf
do with.
Mr. Millepce laid it the wish of th*
people of Georgia that a ceilion of the domi
nion and foil of this territory should be made
to the United States, and the iLegifidturc of
that state are ready to meet the United States
on the business; but if thelc words were re
tained they would prove an obltacle in the
way of the cellion 01 either the territory or ju
rifaiction, as the.Legjflatiire were determined
to set their face against thele pretended pur
chasers. indeed ttvo ot the individual pur
chasers are now contelting with, each other;
and therefore for the United States to inter
fere, would only be to involve thetn in diffi
culties and law-f'uits; for the purchase is not
only-denied by the Hate of Georgia, but tii«
individual purchasers theuifelves are denying
to each other the legality of their purchales.
Mr. Baldwin laid, the committee would
recollett the manner in which this fubjett
came under conlideration, by means of the
McfTage from tlie President, who recommend
ed that. the right of foil and jurisdiction of
this te/iitory should be obtained,and when this
1 was done, that the United States ought to
1 establish a temporary government thert. No
notice was taken by Ilim of any interfering
claims. The present motion was intended,
and, he thought it best to confine their atten
tion, to the objeits recommended by tiie Pre
fidont. The other queftioii would of course
. be left open. If the United States meant to
go back to all the rights of the Natchez coun
try, they might go back to the right of Great
Britain, afterwards to that of Spain, and ps
different companies of individuals. He tho't
jt belt to confine the objett of the bill. When
a temporary government is effablifhed, and
an amicable adjuflment has taken place be
twixt the United States and Georgia, it wilj
then remain a question with the United State*,
whether it will be belt to little the interfei !
ing claims by a general power given to Com,
miflioners, or to leave them to be fettled by
the judicial power. He hoped, ther«forr,
the words would be struck out.
Mr. Harper fully concurred in
with gentlemen that the other objefts of tho
bill were moreimportant to beobuined than
the object which these words were intend« 4
to obtain. A ceflion of the right of jnrifdic
tion alone would be desirable, if no other
ceflioYcould be obtained, as such a cetfion.
and the efUblifamem of a temporary {jovern
ment, would remove »tl the Icrious difficul.
tie* now experienced ; but notwithfianditur
this, he believed the bill would be better as
it (lands than with the wards struck out. ,T'"s
was, however, mere matter ot op'nion," at.d
if the amendment was carried, he should still
b« J" the bit!.. If the amendment
\VM.um£ XHI.- vie rights of thqfe \Tho
claimed part <ff this territory would bc asfirm
i.mVr :hc United Sta'm, they are now un
der Georgia* and we {Hall afterwards be at
liberty to make\n accommodation with them
But he th-jugbt it *'ould be bed now to
the by coonefting the two objeCls
together. As 10 the fears of the-gentleman
trom Virginia, with respeCt to the extent of
this bill, and as to the abuse which might be
made of the power placed in the President and
Commissioners, the fame abufs might take
place, it this amendment was carried. T hey
might then agree to give the state of Georgia
ten miTßons of dollars by treaty, for the ter
ritory in question. But because the power
might be abused, that could not be admitted
as an argument sgainft giving it. Could it
We fuppoXed that the owners of this land were
fucn favotiritcl of the Executive that they
will agree to give them a very extravagant
price tor property which we can do without}
He thought no fear was necefTary on this head,
aathe President would be fcnfible such a Itep
would excite general cenfnre. But was there
bo other way of fettling these claims, but by
paying large sums of "money ? He conceived
there was,'and that they might beadjultedby
a division of the land, as there could be no
doubt these persons would be gladtorelinquifh
one-half or twq-thirds of the country for an
•ndifputed title to the reft. But the gentle
man from Virginia seemed to think we had
Land enough, and that we made no advantage
tf that we have. He said he knew we liad
obtained 50,000 dollars from the lale-of our
land, and that individuals are Hill anxious to
purchase, though not at the price at which it
is fixed. But the United States are desirous
of getting pofTeflion of this territory, not so
much on account ot the value ot the land,
as for other purposes, and'particularly for the
establishment of agovernment at the Natchez.
He wished, therefore, to retain theie words.
After a few observations from Mr. i iND-
Ie y in favour of the amendment (which were
nut diftimftly heard) the question was taken
and carried, there being 59 votes in its favoua-
Mr. Nicholas was not fatisfied that the
President and these Commissioners (hould have
it in their power to pledge the United States
to pay any sum ef money they pleased. He
•Would confide as much in the present Presi
dent, as any other, but his opinion might
differ from the opinion of Congress as to the
value of this territory to the United States,
and >t would be parting with a power which
they ought to retain. He therefore moved to
add to the end of the firft feftion, " prwiJ'J
tbat tbcJaid -bp*- ■'/**« mi et authorized
to bind the United States to pay any sum of money."
Mr. Harper apprehended the gentleman
from V .rginia tiiuft be in jest. Such a provi
sion would make the bill wholly nugatory,
as the Commiflioners would not bc able to
come to any contract with the state of Georgia.
H,e hoped the Commissioners, under the con
trol of the President, would be trusted to
tranfad this business, or if the President was
not to be trusted, somebody else ; but he did
not wiih three Commissioners to be lent to
Georgia with their fingers in their mouths.—
_Hvcould not conceive a more litigatory or
idle melfage.
Mr. MilleDOE hoped this amendment
would be rejected, as it would destroy the
intent of the bill, it'carried. The country to
be negociated for, he, is an amazing traCt
of country of lixty or feveuty millions ot acres
of land as valuable as anyin the world, which
the Hate of (j'eo'rgia could not be expefted to
fuirtnder, or to yield the jurisdiction of it,
witltout an equivalent. He hoped the Com
miflioners would be inverted with full powers.
Mr. N icti o LA s allured the gentleman from
/ S. Caroliua he was very serious in making his
a j^ndmcut; and if it would produce the ef
' feet itajed by hitu ami the. geinleman from
Georgia, he was ready to fay the bill onght to
be rejected. The gentlemaa from Georgia
had ftatcd rhat Congress were about to autho
rize Commissioners to purchase 60 or 70 mil
lion acres of the best land in the world. To
bind the United States to pay for a purchase
of this kind would be an aCt of mmlncfs.
Where wm the money to be got ? The Presi
dent may aCt with discretion, yet he may think
it his duty to give an equivalent for this land.
The gentleman from South Carolina seemed
not to mind where the power of aCting on this
bufii\efs was placed, so that it was not in the
the Houle of Representatives—where, accor
ding to that gentleman's opinion, power could ,
int be falely lodged. He trusted, however, 1
the committee roffeffed fufficient prudence !
not toaCt upon this bulinefs until they had it 1
niore clearly before them. 1
Mr. Gallatin observed, that the firft ;
seCtion of this bill had two ebjeCls; the firft 1
goes to rhe amicable settlement of limits, as to 1
that par! of this country to which the United 1
States 'lay claim. In this respeCt unlimited
power is given to the Comniiflioners and the 1
President. That part would not, therefore, 1
be affeCted by this amendment. Thenextob- c
ject goes to a relinqUifhment on the part of t
Georg aof the whole or any part of the terri- j
tory btitli as to jurisdiction and foil, to which *
tfie United States lvave no claim. Though it t
Jhay be good policy to obtain a ceflion of this c
part of the country, yet it is not immediately
necefTary, since the Commiflioners will be at i
liberty to treat fully as to that part of the
country to which the United States have a •
claim. The amendment only went to fay t<
that no contract which involved the payment f<
■of money should be valid, until sanCtioned by si
Congress. He thought this a proper provision. tl
This power of binding the United States to ti
the payment of money in this concern, is not p
refufed to the President from an idea th#t he >
will abuse the power, but because it is a bufi- v
ness which belongs to Congress, and not to
hini. As he has not theraifing and providing t
of money, he is not so good a judge as Con- ji
grefs of what can be spared for any object. All a
ceflions, Mr. G. laid, had hererofore t
made in this way ; those of Virginia and Con- t
neiticut under the old Government, and that f
•f North Carolina under the present—all these 0
cellior.s w ere accepted by Congress ; yet these t
States did not decline to make their ceflions a
conditionally, nor would Georgia. He wished t
the bill to pais; but except it contained foine f
principle fimilarto this, he should vote agaiiut t
it.
Mr. Venasls proposed an amendment £
which he thought was better calculated for the
purpose intended than the one under confede
ration, which Mr. Nicholas would have con
sented to have admitted in place of his, but 1
it w asdeclared by the chair, not to be in order.
Mr. Harpei. explained what lie had said I
about truftingthe power of negociatingin dther i
hands than the Executive. The gentWman 1
front Pennsylvania, he said had difccvered
that the firft seCtion of the bill had two ob
jects. It had, but he believed that gentleman ?
had mistaken them both. The firft, he stated,
was to fettle the limits between the Uhited
States and Georgia, and of the gentle
men froom Virginia who had spoken on this
lubjeCt had repeated the fame expreflion.
Frqpt this, it would appear \liat the United
Sta'es have a cla m unoii that country which
the fiate of allows ; wliereas she does .
not,allow us to have a tingle inch of land in (
i , that state. Therefore, alt parts of fhe bill
i I went to the fame object, which >*M to o
I a cession ofthr territory, and jurifdiftron botn
t ! of what we claim, (and which the does iw
allo'v) and what we do uot claim , an
• this V>»ld not bc obtained in any other way
s Thau by either giving Georgia a sum ot 1,10,11 >
i the ccftion, or by taking it by the ftrolig
r hand of force. This bill therefore, no more
: a bill for fettling iimiTs, than.u *! a bil \°*
t building fen frigates. <Mtr interfering claim
: would certainly be considered in the a J u
l mentof the price, though it was not alio wet
i by Georgia to exirt. "1 hat part to whkh we
have no claim, would, of courte, be fixed a
r higher rate, and the President may, or uia>
1 not agree to purchase it. The geni eina.t
I from P' lfylvania had dated, this w..s no neiv
■ doClnhr, m Congress had always confirmed
l the ceflions which had been made by the dit
t ferent States j but there was no need ot a con -
1 traCt in thole cessions, as they were all nude
, without price, as a (acrifice for the goo >
5 the Union. It was fatd that the CommiOion- |
e ers might do every thing but pay tne n lO '
' but this was every thing, and except fb'-y i
1 the power of complcating their bargain, >-
l would be no use in fending them.
j Mr. J.Williams supposed from the title
i of the bill, it was a bill for an amicable fet
-3 tlement of limits with Georgia j but, by
- observations of the gentleman from a. t-ai •
i lin,, it appeared it was to provide for the
e purchase of Georgia lands. He did not eel
i willing to go to purcliafe lands of any state,
r I fit were intended to fettle a difputc abcu
» boundary line, he should be in favour o i ,
t but he could not think of empowering torn
s millioners to purchase fiomillion acres.oflMd
-3 It was to be lamented, he said, that the
, of Georgia had not long ago made a cession ot
e that part of her territory to which the Unite
. States are entitled ; but now they tell us i
. we want land, we mult purchase it. He was
- not for doing this. If it was theirs, let them
: hold it. If jurisdiCtion of a part ofher tern
i tory was wanted for a provisional Government,
- he thought that State ought to corne forward
3 as others had done and make a c«Mion ot it,
; without price. He had do objection to tie
i appointing Coinmiffiohers to enquire upon
t what terms the land could begot; but he
- would go no farther. He hoped t.ie antcnu
t ment would be agreed to.
: Mr. Da v ton the Speaker) rose to make
, an amendment which he hoped would be a
i greed to by the gentleman from Virginia in
> place of his, as it Would eftect his
/ lie thought be preferable to the one he had oi
i fcred. It was to niaka the latter part ot the
' firft seCtion, after the word " South Carolina,
i read, " and alfitlo receive any prtpofalsfor a re
lirtjujbmtnt n cejjiun of the luhile or any part oj
, the other territory claimed by the Jlate of Georgia,
i and out of the ordinary jurifdiflion thereoj. '
"I his ameadment was agreed to. •
Mr. Milledge moved to amend the 3d
1 seCtion of the bill, respeCting tlie erefting ot
i a temporary Government, by adding these
words, " As soon as the consent of the ftgjlamre
> of Georgia /ball be obtained."
Mr. Harper was opposed to this amend
ment, the cffeCt of which, he said, would be,
to make this government depend upon tlie
fettle inent of its litigation with Georgia be
fore a temporary government could be esta
blished at th? Natchez, where there are be
tween 4 and 5000 fouls, without government,
as it is supposed the Spaniards have withdrawn
themselves from rhe pods which they have so
long held there contrary to treaty, and these
people are at the dirtance of 600 miles from
the ordinary jurisdiCtion of the government*
of Georgia, which distance is a continued de
fart in which are several Nations of Indians.
It cannot be expe&ed, therefore, that the
state of Georgia will or can extend her go vern
ment thither. So that one of our most valu
able frontiers will- be left in an unprotected
and di/orderly dafe. The inhabitants have
sent forward a memorial praying for a govern
ment, and there fc the most TatisfaCtory
evidence-that a government is neceflary. Whe
ther they stall have one or not, ought not,
therefore, to depend upon the rtateof Georgia.
Mr. Nicholas said, it appeared to him
that this bill was contradictory in itfelf, as it
states, we will not impair the jurifdiCtiop of
Georgia, at the fame time that it proposes to
establish a government within her territory.
The gentleman from S. Carolina had shewn
that it would be very inconvenient for the
government of Georgia to hold thisjurifdicti
on ; but he supposed if the United States
sent a government there before they adjuded
their difference with Georgia, that state would
not look very cordially upon the ttanfaCtiae,
and it would of course embarrass that adjust
ment. He hoped the state of Georgia would
not be diverted of her territory by the strong
hand of power.
Mr. Dayton wished the committee weuld
rife, as was important a question to
be decided when there was scarcely a quorum
of members in the house. But he would fay,
I that cases might exist, which would not only
juftify the United States in establishing a go
vernment ill the quarter alluded to without
the consent of Georgia, but even within the
ordinary jurisdiCtion of a state.
The committee rose ; and upon leave be- ]
ing asked to fit again,
Mr. Gallatin hoped it would not be
given, as he wilhed the bill to be re-commit
ted to tire seleCt committee in order to obtain
some information which he understood was be
fore the Senate with respeCt to the title which
the Unitec States have to certain parts of the
territoiy in question ; as he wished before thev
proceeded toeltablifh a government at the
Natchez to know something as to the title
which they bad to it.
Mr. Harper thought there was no necessi
ty to recommit the bill to accomplish this ob
ject, as the gentleman might go to the Senate
and obtain the information he wished from
thence. He believed they had nothing more
than a copy of an extratt xhich he had him
felf taken of an official cojvy of a grant given
ot W ell Florida by the feritilX government in
the year 1770, which was the handsof
a gentleman of New-Yerk who Secretary
to the Governor—the original of which he
supposed was in the office of Trade and Plan- 1
tation in London. ,
The question for leave to fit again was ne
gatived 43 to 36, and the bill was recommitted.
Wednesday, March *l.
Mr. Dennis asked and obtaiued leave of
»b fence for Mr. Evans for a fortnight.
He also presented a petition from th* inha
bitants of Dorchelter county, .Maryland,pray
ing for an alteration in the port-road, and jhe
ertablifhment ofapoft-office at Cambridge
Referred to the committee on poft-officei and
post-roads.
■ Mr. Gallattn to propose a reso
lution to the house on the fame fubjedl, viz
to direct the committee on poft-officeand poft
roads to enquire into the propriety of estab
lishing a post-road from Pittfburg to Prefqu'-
Isle. He had no petition from that part of
the country ; nor was it on account of the
new and extensive fettiement which had re
cently taken place in that quiner, that Ik pro
posed it, but bccaufe it is tbe ftoTteft route
' \ v
■frmsthers to die feat efgovern
frorn ' .o goverj.-
U . poit-n.r 1 to be a« .be
to Agreed,
fremieut C x!>™ ce ° ["» in force the aft f° r
The bill for co . "im tinrc- the- exportation
prohibiting for a Inn ed <ncoara g, n |
oi arms and ammj .»t . lca ,i the tlurd
the importation thereof, w«
time and palled. • j f Jon i the Senate,
AmclCige vvu> fff*' |)a(J pjjferi the
informing 'he hoi' - J Congress to an act
bill decfaring theaHentoy
of the Bate ot comm ittce of ways
Mr- Harps*, ftomt «co an appro .
-hich ..a.
for to-morrow. the fame com-
The fa ne gentleman,, from eft ._
mittee, affo made a fun t | ie:ll from
mates » >vch had be-n (>f necef
the Secretary of th<t 1 whit^
I fary so. 'He ferv.ee of the piUent >e ,
' was committed f»r a,. _ itfelf into a
i "Th. bill .H.ri.«'tlK
time Dart of an ad therein mentioned (tftts
elTufeauthorized the P«f.d,ntto -
titfonal compenfat.on to the of he
internal revenue, so as that the addition (hall
not exceed one third of their ordinary allow
a"?h'efe bills were severally agtHd to,, ana
ordered to be engrofTed lor a third reading to
m< On°motion, the house resolved itfelf into a
committee of the whole on the a
left committee to whom was
several motions for amending the
rules of the House, Mr. KlTTtx* in the
chair : The firft of tor the
re ct that no" qrieftion Ihould be taken tor tne
je-confideration of any vote, when a left
number of members were present, than when
the originar *ote was paOed : The second,
proposed that no motion for adjournment
(hould be received, unlefshy unanimousion
fent! whilst another motion was pending : Ine
third proposed tlwt persons atMuding the
House for the purpose of taking down the de
bates and proceedings, should be permitted to
take thcir places within the bar ot the House. |
The feleft committee recommended that
the firft should be adopted, and the two last
difagrced to. . , i
After a few observations, the report of the
f«Jeft committee on the firft was disagreed to,
and ot course the pfopofition was negatived.
Their fepert on the second was agreed to.
The third, refpefting persons attending the
House, for the purpose of taking an account
of the proceedings, produced a debate which
occupied the whole ot tlie fitting (a. (ketch of
which will be given to-morrow). Immedi
ately on the refclution being read, a motion
was made by Mr. Nicholas for the commit
tee to rife, on the ground of its being a quei
tion which would be likely to produce some
irritation, which he thought would be best
avoided, at least until the important business
of the nation was disposed of. 1 his motion
was carried 44 to 36. The committee ac
cordingly rose, and on leave being ifked to
fit again, (which was advocated by those in
favour of the committee's rising) the question
was negatived 46 to 4°- A motion was then
made by Mr. N. Smith, for postponing the
farther consideration of this question until the
4th day of March next, upon which the yeas
and nays were taken as follow :
YEAS.
MefTrs. Allen, MeU'rs. Hofmer,
Baer, Imlay,
Bayard, Kitrera,
Bartlett, Lyman,
Brookes, Machir,
Bullock, Matthews,
Champlin, Otis,
Chapman J. Parker,
Cochran, Pinckney,
Coit, Reed,
Craik, Rutledge,
Dana, Schureman,
Dennis, Sewall,
A. Foster, Shepard,
D. Foster, Sinnickfon
J. Preemati, N. Smith,
Glen, Sprague,
Goodrich, Thatcher,
Gordon, Thomas,
Grifwold, Van Allen,
Grove, Wadfworjth,
Hindman, J.Williams,44
NAYS.
MefTrs. Baldwin, MefTrs. Heifter,
Bard, Holmes,
Blount, Jones,
Brent, Locke, 1
Bryan, Lyon, „
Burgess, Macon,
T. Claiborne, M'Clenachan
W. Claiborne M'Dowell,
Clay, Milledge,
Ciopton, New,
Dawfon, Nicholas
Dent, Skinner,
Elmeodorf, W. Smith,
Findley, Sprigg, .
Fowler, Stanford,
Gallatin, Sumter,
Gillefpie, Tillinghaft,
Gregg, _ A. Trigg,
Hantia, VanCortlandt
'Harper, Varnttm,
Harrifon, Venable,
Hartley, RWiiliams,44
The numbers boiog equal, the Spuakkr
said, as this was a question upon which he
could not vote without a positive order of the
House, the question was not carried.
A motion was then made to adjourn, which
was negatived, there being only 14 votes for it.
Mr. Hartley then moved to postpone
tne bufiaefs until the firft Monday in May,
which motion was negatived 46 to 3S.
1 he queftiou was then takeu upon agreeitio'
to the report of the feleft committee, to difa°
gree to the motion for amending the rules:
when the yeas and nays were taken, and were
»i C .^T? e ,r as °^ 1 11,4 ' ormer question, except
Dent, Hanna, Harper, Hartley,
Msledge and Tillinghalt, who voted in the
negative of the former question, voted in the
affirmative of this ; and MefTrs. Heifter and
nr th: house before this question
to. S o^ 6 OfC
Hyson and Young Hyson Tea.
n few chc .Of quality, for file, t or
of Sccoa< *aj r. ae firitn,— Dec it toff
Pft ILA T)H L P HI-A >
TilPßfipAV jvfflFMG> «»<?*,»•-
COMMUNICATION'
iCiUIU by th* Jireaorr in
rfe-45&rj^^
bv the Devil (.« Milton?. poem)
for his feduaiflD* of mankind and hoftihty
with heaven. He fick«ned at
he could not enjoy. . So flic aniMJ.l. hfcnch
aH- dillurbed at the profpe. ity of tlirEngLfh.
Thcv niuft therefore be reduced to equilrnU
>rv With thtmfelves. Their commerce ts
too flourifhing, they are too wealthy an..
happy, and thcir , ' nfular fituatio " has , " t '
to secured them frcm the calamities of war.
<< Bat it i» your duty, Frenchmen/' fays
the philanthropic Rarras, " to teach that isl
and, that nstwithllanding its insular nuta
tion' it i< by no means iaacceflible, and that
rou'may carry back into it» bosom, the ca
lamities which it has brought home to your
England once disarmed and van
quilhed, a perpetual peace is from that in
stant established, and the balance of Europe
fettled on a permanent bafts ; for the French
republic too ItroHg to be attacked, will feel
r.o motive to attaik. Her greatness will
set her above the flights of ambition, and
(he will feel no Jefire of traufgreffing her
own limits." Veiy true, citizen ! When
(h« has subjugated the world, there will be
nothing left to interrupt her repose,. unless,
like Alexander, (he should wetp for the dc
ficiency of new objedls to conquer.
• Who will now fay, that Jacobins do not
speak truth 2 They only cant when it is
thcir interest to deceive : But on the present
[ occasion, when the question is the detrac
tion' of a formidable rival there being no li
riiiui, as they juflly observe, to the euthit
fiafm of Frenchmen they boldly declare
themselves. The puny considerations of
Juftiee and humanity are tar below their
concern ; and interest, glory,. revenge and
dominion, are the only arguments worthy of
the terrible and invincible regublic. It dis
dains an appeal, either to heaven or earth,
for the juilrefs of its canfe, and atbeifti
cally relies on its own irrefiftable prowels.—
How much further this scourge of nations,
will be permitted to extend itfclf, is not for
mortals to fay, however th*y may be con
vinced of its diabolical nature,
If pUfuc, nor earthquake break not Hcavcn't deflgn,
"Why then » Barras. or a Cataline ?
But the trade of Britain is highly prospe
rous, while that of France is nearly annihi
lated, and republicans it seems, like money
at well as their neighbors. The fafts can
not be denied, fuice they arc admitted by
themfelvei. But the remedy to be applied
for the evil, from a people who have talked
so much about peace and philanthropy, and
other fine things, would consist (one (hould
suppose) in an-endeavor to fupplaat their ri
vals bj* fuperier industry and ingenuity.—
And from the advantage of the institutions
to be derived fronj the unrivalled excellence
of their government, from their ioimenfe
population, and acknowledged talents for
invention, it cannot be doubted, but that
they would soon be an over-match for every
competitor. What then re«aius, but at
once to make peace, " turn their swords in- j
to ploitgh-fliares, their spears into pruning
hooks," and tcf engage in the contest, like
si tends and brothers, relying for success, on
the fair means of industry and exertion.—
This at least, on the private fitale, and old
principles of jnftice, would be the legitimate
course. For what (hould we far of a bank
rupt; vho would burn a more fuceelsful
trader's house, in order to reduce him to the
fame degree of indigence with himfelf, that
they might then, start even ? Yet this is
preeifely the cnndu& of the Direftory, who
a(k, " Have you lillened to the miuifter of
Great Britain, who informs you with the
most infnlting ostentation, that the English
commerce is to that of France as 18 to 2 ;
that the imports and exports do not amount
in France to more than 400 millions ; and
that in England they amount to seven milli
ards French ! Have you a moment to lose in
baffling the calculations of -English avidity!*?
France has been obliged, (continue they)
to make a temporary facrifiee of her credit
to the success of the war. But now viflo
ry ought to repay its facrifices, and at the
fame time secure to it that portion of me
tallic wealth, and that rank which the ma
ture and extent of its territory, its popula
tion, its coasts and its rivers, challenge and
mark out to it among the commercial pow
ers."
And is it th 113,0 ye citizens of the world !
ye orators of the human rffee ! ye profeflors
of uriiverfal fraternity ! Is it thus, ye cajole
your admirers and imitators ? Is all your
kissing, your hugging and your embracing,
for the love of mankind, " shrunk tu. this
little measure" ? To a narrow and fordid af
tach merit to metallu -wealth, and a de.fire of
promoting the commercial interest of Fraace
and filling the pockets of her merchants ?
And to go to war about it, like a naughty
despot ! and to talk about fating the ambi
tion of your Republic, when you have so
often told us, there was no ambition but a
mong kings ! —Who could have believed it ?
INDIAN TREATY.
THIS INDENTURE,
MADE the 15th day of September,
m the year of our Lord, 1797: bet-ween
the Sachems, chiefs and warriors of the
iseneca nation of Indians, of the firft part,
and Robert Morris, of the city of Phila
delphia, Esquire, of the second part—
Whereas the commonwealth of Maflaehufetts
have granted, bargained and fold unto the
said Robert Morris, his heirs and assigns,
toreYer, the pre emptive tight, and all o„
ther the right, title and ?. • Mc^tL.
said c'ontrtionwealth had tp aii t trad ,
land heroin after particularly tr««ij on *!'
being part of a traft of jlljid, lyfng. . »
frt the flaw of New-York,, theright'of
emptiort of the foil wherrtif, from the*"*"
tive Indians, was C(td»d and, granted fc - t
said ftafe of New York to<-tVie f a ;,| e
moiswealth—And whereas, at a treaty Ma
under the authority of the-United Stat
with the said Seneca nation of Indent
Genefef, in the county of Ontario
ftateof New-York, on the date
of these presents aud on funjlry days ; mm „
diately prior thereto, by the T
rem.ah Wadfwortt*, F-fquire, a comm J £
goner appointed by.fe President of the
United States tn 1,c44 the fame, ; n purfu .
or the coafKrution, and:of the ac\ *1
Ac t ongrefs of the United
cafe made and provided, rt was agreed in
the presence and with the approbation of
the said commissioner, by the Saeh«..
chief. and warrior, of the said na,; on 0 \
Indians, for themselves and in behjlf J
their nation, to fell to the said R„bert Mar
tis, and to-his heirs and affiens, forevfr ,!i
their right to all that traa of land shore
recited, and hereig after particularly s pec ;
fied forthe sum of one hundred thousand
dollars, to be by the said Robert Morr'
vested in the stock of the bank of t h- U»;'
ted States, and held in the name of Oi'j
President of the United States, f or | t fc e
use and behoof of the said nation of Indians
the said agreement and fa!e being also made
in the presence and *ith the approbation of
the honorable William Shepard, Esquire
the fnperir.tendant appointed for such pur!
prfe, in pursuance of a resolve of the
nerahcourt of the commonwealth of Mat'-
fachufetts, pa/Ted the nth day of March
in the year of our Lord <791. No<u> tki't
indenture tuitnejfetb, that the said parties of
the fir ft part, for and in confidcration of
the premises above recited, and for divers
other good and valuable confideratior.3 them
thtreunto moving. Lave granted, bargained
fold, alirnated, released, enfeoffed andcoi!
firmed, and by these presents, do grant, bar
gain, fell, alien, release, enfeoff and'con
firm unto the said parties of the second
part, his heirs and afligns, forever, all that
sertain traft of land, except at it herein af
ter excepted, lying within the county c f
Ontario and state of New-York, being
part of a trafl of land the right cfpre-emp.
tion whereof wats ceded by the state of New
York to the commonwealth of MafTachu.
feUo, Ijy deed of ceflion executed at Hart
fort on the 16th day of December, in tke
year of our Lol-d, 1786, being all f„ch
part thereof as is not included in tke'lndian
purchase made by Oliver Phelps and Na
thaniel Gorham, and bounded as fdlWs,
to wit, eafterty by the land confirmed to 01.
iver Phelps and Nathaniel Gorham, by the
legiflatwe of the commonwealth of Mas.
fachufetta, by an aft passed the 21ft day of
November, in the year of our Lord, 1788
—ftutherly by tit north boundary line of
the state of Pennfylvanit, vxjferly, partly
by a traft of land part of the land ceded bf
the state of Massachusetts' to the United
States, and by them fold,to Pennfylvani.,
being a right angled triangle whoTe hypo*
thenufe is in or along the (hore of Lake Erie
—partly by Lake Erie, from the northern
point of that triangle, to the fouthera
bounds of a traft ol land one mile in width,
lying on and along the east fide of the
Streight of Niagara, and" partly by the
said traft to Lake Ontario, and on the
north by the boundary line between the U
sited States and the kiag of Great-Britain.
E-xeepting nelierthclefs and always refcrving
out of this grant and coaveyance all fiich
piece* or parcels of the aforefaid trad and
such privileges thereunto belonging at ire
next herein after particularly mentioned,
which said pieces or parcels of land so ex
cepted are by the parties to these presents
clearly ai)d fully understood to remain the
property of the said parties of the fir.t part
in as full and ample matiher as if these prt"
feuts had not been executed, That is 'ofay %
excepting and referring to them th* said par
ties of the firft part and their nation, on*
piece or parcel of the aforefaid traft, at
Canawagus, of two fqtaare miles, to be laid
out in such manner as to include the village,
extending in breadth one mile along the ri
ver—One other piece or parcel at Big Trie,
of two square miles to be laid out in such
manner as to iuclude the village extending
in breadth along the river one mile—One
other piece o* parcel of two square miles, at
Little Beards town, extending one mile a
loiig the river, to be laid off in such man
ner as to include the village—One other
traft of two square miles at Sqwawky Hill,
to be laid off as follows, to wit, one square
mile to be laid off along the river in such
manner as to include tbojyillage, the other
direftly weft thereof and contiguous there
to—One other piece or parcel at Gardeau,
heginning at the mouth of Steep-hill Creek,
thence due east until it strikes the old path,
thence south until a due weft line will inter
feft with certain steep rocks on the weft See
of Genefee river, then extending due weft,
due north and due east until it strikes the
firft mentioned bounds, iaclofing as much
land on the weft fide as on the east fide of
the river—One other piece or parcel at Ha
oun-arde-af, extending in length eight mile,
along the river and two miles in breadth-"
One other piece or parcel at Catafaugers,
beginning at the mouth of the eighteen
mile or Hogh-quaw-gu creek, tlienpe,a l'J 1 *
or lints to be drawn parallel to Lake Erie#
at the distance of one mile from the Lake,
to the mouth of Cataraugers creek, thence
a line or lines extending twelve miles up t e
north fide of the'faid creek at the distance
of one' mile therefrom, thence a direst line
to the said cretk, thenee down the w
creek to Lake Erie, thence along the L 5
to the firft mentioned creek, arrd thence to
the place of beginning—Also one ot
piece at Cataraugers, beginning at l} lo^ 6
of Lake Erie, on the south tide of vat*
I raugers creek, at the distance «f utfrt :n the mcath thereof, thence ruhniugasfc
iriile from the Lakq, thence on a line pa
rallel thereto to a point within one mile f.ptn
the Con-non dan-we-yea creek, thertce «p
the said creek one mile on a line parallel
thereto, thence on a <lire£t line to the said
cfeek, thence down the fame to Lake Erie,
thenee along the Lake to the place of begin
r.ing—- Iso one other piece or parcel of for
ty-two square miles, at or near the Allegen
ny Tiver— Ifi two hundred square miles,
to be laid off partly at the Buffaloe
ami'partly at the Tannawallta creeks Iso
■ excepting and reserving to them the said par
ties of-the firft part, and their heirs, the
privilege of fiihing and hunting on the said
traft hereby intended to be convey
ed* , '/Ink it is hercty tinderllood, by and
between the parties. to tb«fc present*, that
fcll such pieces or parcels of land, as are
hereby refcrved and are not particularly de
scribed as to. the manner in whieh the fame
are tb be laid off, (hall be laid off in such
manner as (hall be determined by the Sa
chems and" chiefs residing at or near the ref
"peftive villages where such reservations are
made, a particular note whereof to be in
dorsed on the back of this deed and record
ed therewith---Together with all and Angu
lar the rights, privileges, hereditaments and
appurtenances thereunto belonging or in any
wife appertaining. /Wall the fibre, right,
title and interest whatsoever of them the
said parties of the firft part and their nation
of in and to the said of land abeve de
scribed, except as is above excepted, to
lave*nd to holdall and singular the said gran
ted pretnifes with the appurtenances to the
said party of the second part, his heirs and
affigp.s, to his and their proper use, benefit,
and behoof forever. J n yiumft whereof ;he
parties to these presents have hereunto in
terchangeably set their hands and seals the,
day and year fir (I above written.
Done at a full and general treaty of the
Seueca nation of Indians, held at
Genefee, in the county of Ontario ,
rpo.'nti-t state °f New- /ork, on the t Jth j
day of September, in the year of
our Lord, 1797« "nder the author
ity qf the United States. In uJTi-\
many whereof I have hereunto set
my hand and seal the day andyear a
forefaid.
JEREMIAH WADSWORTH, (1.5.)
(Signed by a number of Indian.t.)
ROBER7 MORRIS, ~-
by his Attorney,
THOMAS MORRIS, [>,«.]
Sealed and delivered ,
in prefenc® of
Nalh. Howel, Henry Aaron Hills,
Joseph Ellicott, Henry Abeel,
Israel Chaprin, J a fp' r Parri/i,
James Rees,
Pursuant to • resolution of thelegifla
turc of the commonwealth of MaffachufetU,
passed the nth day of March, in the year
®f our Lo»d, 1791, I have attended a full
snd general treaty of the Seneca nation of
Indians, at Genefee, in the county of On
tario, when the within instrument was duly
tflecuted in my presence, by toe Sachems,
ehieti and warriors of the/aid nation, being
fairly, and. propfeWy under flood and tranfaft
„ ed by all of-Indians concerned,
and declared to be'doneto their univerf 1
. fatisfiftion. Ido therefore certify and ap
prove of the Tame.
WILLIAM SHEPARD.
Subscribed in presence of !
NATHWIEL' Howiit.
LANCASTER, March 17.
On Wednrfday a female child of Mr.
Thomas Bartoii was ran over by a loaded'
waggon and expired almost injlantancoufly.
We have'juft received intelligence from
Harrilburgh, that John Hants and Charles
M'Manus have been convi'fted of the wilful
murderofMr. Frances Shit?, late ofShaef
ferftown. The trial of Francis Cox, the other
accomplice, :i we are told, potlponed till
the enftiingCourt,
_ On Sunday night last a man of the vici- '
nity of yorktown, being foracwhat in liquor
was led by his horse into the Codorus and
morning, the remains of a young infant were i
difesvered, supposed to have been thrown
in about tour days before.
Tfe?. rapid . approarrheS of vice and immo
rality in America, loudly demand the tnoft
energetic and effeftive measures to arrest
their progress. The lalt fifteen months has
aftually produced more murders, suicides,
robberies, &c than the whole feveu preced
ing years. The fad is certain—but the
cause is, in some measure, unaccountable.
To ascertain it, and provide a remedy, is a
general duty ; and we trust the attention
of the differcndlegiflatures may lie fliortly
turned 011 so interesting a fubjedt to the
happiness of society.
Let what will be,the refulf we can not for
bear remarking, id, that the gencrel efta
bliftment of free schools In every county,
is an obj«& of the high eft importance ; and
2dly, a friendly hint to the governor of
Pennsylvania, that the remifllon of fines and
sentences, (hould be cautiaufly exercised :
for as, Shakefpearc fays,
" We ((ill give mis ki«ffan<fti»n,
u When evil deeds have their permiflive pass
" And not their punifhmcnt " ;
We ftould here let the fubjedl reft with 1
less anxiety, if we had not to mention one 1
of the most atrocious a£ts that the frailty of <
erring iiature could suggest. ' •
1 he.Tillaiji who by the name of Joseph 1
Sterretf, advertised in the last page of this t
paper, has add<?d to that catalogue of crimes r
which is lately swelled to such an efctenfive j
and lamentable height:—
Contrary to the tenor of his advertise- ]
Went his wile had not abfeonded from him.
He had -turned her out of the h<*ufe a few
days before his publication. Hi- solicited
her returtf; with fair promises, and the crt
dulous woman complied. On Wednesday li
night last, in conlequence we suppose. of ■
SterretiVcondudl, Mrs. Sterrett lepofed I
herfelf on a platfk in the Tame room with I
her brutal httibaiifi, who occupied the bed r I
the perceived Mrs. Sterret.
' | he rose, and takin , a (harp nxe, with
I i b"V V fofred htr h;ad her
p tody. He then took a rope, and feftenirtc
. ! ° ne cnd to a H ok immediately over Mrs.
errett, and the other round his neck, »f
. j c iped that earthly punishment which the
laws of the country would have infiifted
- j I hey were both found dead by one of the
neighbours whe> entered the hoftfe the next
' ' St errett »a. an ilHterate char
s and fond of strong drink. Mrs. Ster
-0 rett is reported as a good woman, and an
| excellent neighbour.—They lived in Cono
e Itogo townfeip, five miles from this hO
- rough.
? 'tQZEIGN ftmtIIGENCE.
LONDON, January 2.
trial
1 0F CAPTAIN WILLIAMSON,
OF HIS majesty's ship agincourt.
e ct, y T ™ en 'y Fifth Day.-]
- Sheerncfs, Jan. ~_The Court met this
- ,0 o'clock, and was imme
_ d.ately cleared till two in.the afternoon , it
J J as ' "ear four o'clock before the
doors were re-opened, when the Judge Ad-1
vocate read the minutesof the sentence near- '
ly as follows :
• K;'lf At a 1 o art;al ' hnld?n on
_ his Mdjefty s ftup Circe, 111 the River Med- I
• way, and contkmed fitting, by adjournments,'
from the 4th December 1797, to the I ft of |
: J a " l,ar X 1798. mclufive, in pursuance of an
j ord<r ' by theCommiffioners for ex
, OSCC ° f L ° rd H 'S h Admiral
. ot England, and direfted to the members
• t i° the Court 0 lr r Captain
. J° h p Williamfon, late of his majesty'S (hip
Agincourt, upon certain charges exhibited
. him : The Court, after hearing the
" evidence adduced on the part of the prole
, cutor « a,ul the defence, together with all
, evidence the prisoner ciiofe to bri'ng-for
f ward, and after having weighed the whole
maturely and deliberately, are of opinion,
That the charges of cowardice and difajfedion
. have not been proved agoinfl the said Captain
IViitiamfon ; that the «ther charges havr
been proved in part : Therefore the Court
. pronounces the following
SIKTENCI:
" That the said Captain John Williamfon i
be put at the bottom of the lift ofpoftcap- !
tains, and be rendered incapable-os ever fcrvinr
1 tn board any of his Majejly's flips."
Signed by the Court, kc.
As soon as Mr. Binftead, the Judge Ad
-1 vocate, had concluded the feetence, the
President informed the Provost Marlhal that
captain Wilhamfon was no longer in kis c>f- '
tody, and the Court then diflolved.
Ihe Court was uncommonly crouded ;
; notwithstanding which, a ptrfeft filenc# and j
stillness prevailed.
Captain Williamfon, during the whole of
his trial, conduced himfelf with much firm
nefs ; ht heard the sentence with fortitude,
and, o* retiring, bowed to the Court.
January 3.
An ignited fubftanee used by the Greeks
in a sea-sight in the ytar (SSo, and whose
deftruftive properties are such, that when
(hot from a missile instrument, will adhere
! to what it strikes, and continue burning till
■ it is exhausted or exting»i(hed by vinegar or
strong alkali, not fubmittingtoWater, which
: on the contrary, increases its fury, has, it
is reported, been re-discovered by the Pari
sian chymifts.
A morning print fays. « Lieutenant lord
Camclford isexpefted to afrive hourly, .in
one of his Majesty's Hoops of war, by or
der of rear Admiral Harvey, Commander
in Chief on. the leeward island Ration, in
order to anfwer,before hi 6 peers, the heinous
offence of winch he has been charged by
the coroner's ie«[iigft of the island of Bar
badoes."
Mr. Clarke being eleded to the Cham
' berlainftiip, reGgns his gown as alderman
of Broad-street warß, and his office as a po
lice magistrate. There are two candidates
" for the aldefman's gown, viz. Mr. Pcrryn,
j as Broad-ftrtet, merchant, and Mr. En
' derby, oil-merchant, b»th geutlemen of eon
fiderable influence in the ward, and a strong
contest is expe£ted.
Captain Williamfon, although rendered
incapable of ever serving 011 board any of
his majesty's (hips, is, from his not being 1
struck entirely off the lift, entitled to half- 1
pay—from which, however, some dedu&i- '
011 will be made, in canfequencc of his being 1
put at the bottom of the lift of poll cap- 1 ■
tains.
Several Italian Papers, received with the 1
last mail, mention that the whole of the Ve- '
netian fleet, on their voyagr toToulon, have *
been teparated in a strong gale «f wind, '
which lasted three days, and that ma ly of ■ a
them, heavy laden with the contents of the
Arsenal of Venice, arc supposed to be loft. ®
Admiralty Office, January 1. g
Extra# of a letter from capt. Edward Gi if- e
fith, of his Majesty's (hip Nigre, t» Evan f
Nepcan, Esq. dated at Spithead the 2tfth 1
ult. I
Yesterday, the Stsrt Point bearing north
about seven leagues. I captured, after a few
hours chafe, the Delphine, a French prira- "
teer cutter, pierced for 10 guns, 4 motint- w
ed, and 38 men on board. She failed from
St. Maloes fix days ago, in company with
H lugger ; bad captured the A&ivc bria;an-
tine of Jersey, and had been beat off the '
night before we ftll in with her by au En- ■
glilh letter of marque. Jr
Letter from ce tain David Lloyd of his ma
jesty's (loop Termagant, to Evan Nepean,
Esq. dated at Hull, the 30th ult. fe
S1 a, w
You wil be pleased to inform the right lr
hon. the Lords Commissioners of the Ad- oi
mirnhy, that on the 28th rinii. the Spuru k
Feint bearing W, N. W. diftaut 4 leagues, tl
I captured, after a chace of four hours, the tl
French privateer fchooutr Le Vi&oiie, of c
- :. \
1 H and '4 frsn. She had V.een oat
ten day*, had captured two colliers, a:id
1 was in purAi'tcf ,«n merchantman
* when I firft her.
I have the honor to h.% *fcc.
ROBERT LLOYD.
e
»• January 13.
e Buonaparte has been c'nofcn a member of
t the National Institute.
Madame de Stael, fom? of the paper*
fay, has received orders to quit the Repub
n lie*
1 he republican frigate L'lnfnrgent, cap
-- iX.t.C Violette, fr< mPort-au-Prince, which
isjuft arrived at L'Orient, feH iu with at
lea, far the jonroaU, an fengli(h Eift-lrrdta
P, "'led the Prince Frederick, frywßen
gal, richly laden—entirely difmafte'd, total
ly destitute of provisions, and filling faft
with witer. The French captain took all
the aboard, amounting to 104 per
sons : after which the lndiaman was funk.
The fame frigate has taken the Countess of
Leicefterpacket-boat, bound from Falmouth
( to Li(bon.
A letter from Vienna, dated Dec. 2 3~~
t state*, that the rebellious Pacha of Widdis
• 7!?° hefiegtd Belgrade, avows hi.flfelf a
_ ; friend to freedom, and has several members
of the Divan in his istereft. He lately
threatened the G rand Signior to advanq;
1 y it!l whole fqree a S ainft Conftantin«ple,
. in order, as he ex pre (Ted himfelf, to procure
,; a m 'lder government forfufferinghumanity,
( 1 (liould the Emperar attempt in any manner
• tor oppose him in carryiag intQ execuiioß
. his benevolent system.
j File Gold coinage now going on at the
, mint in the Tower, is the largest that ha*
, taken plaee for fame time past ; hut ho or
} ders have yet been giv« a for a filvti- coinag;
1 0,1 account ps the high price of Bullion,
e • The French minister of finance at Bruf
. fels has demanded a loan 0/40 million* from
l.ther.clura merchant a* their
. contribution toward* the irrtende-iTDc-fcent
i upon England
, Authentic advice* from the East Indies,
, brought ,by the lait (hip,, state that the in
j tn:ded expedition to the Manillas has been
. abandoned, as the Spanish force stationed
t there rendered the futceft of the attack ra
ther doubtful.
Lord Kingston is to be tried without de
, ; lay in the high Steward's Court, by the I
. rilh Peers, as foom as the Grand Jury have
, found the indictment against hipr, for scoo
ting Colonel Fitxgerald.
Ihe following account of an .attempt to
poison Buonaparte hi* appeared in a PariG
. an Journal: '• A woman sent to inform him
that a plan was laid to take him off by poi
. : f° n - He caused the bearer of the intelli
j gence to be arretted 5 aod, accompanied by
, the Justice* of Peace, went to the woman'*
[ : house who had sent the MelTenger.—She
I vvas extended on the floor, covered with
r hlood She had been strangled by some
person* whose conversation (he had over
heard. She had also receivtd several wouad*.
She i* in a desperate way y but overy intel
ligence that can as yet be collefted from her
j bears the mark of truth."
The Vryheid and Alkmaar, Dutch pri
se*, have been bought into government
service for to,oool. each. The former it
to be stationed at Chatham, at a prison
. fllip.
Admiral de Winter i* about to bring
Rear Admiral Bloys de Treflong to trial,
for his alledged mifeonduft in the action of
the nth of Oftober.
The Admiralty, it is said, have in agi
tation to destroy the Dock in which the
Hermione frigate wa* builf, and to ereft a
column, to natify to the world and to pos
terity thejuft abhorrence of Eng'.iflimen at
the heinous crime of the crew of that (hip.
All the firft Lieutenant* of the ;(hips in
the aftion ®f the nth of Oftober (the A
gincourt excepted) were on Th.urfday ap
pointed to the rank ©f matters and comman
ders in the Navy.
The Jupiter, of 74 guns, one of the
Dutch prizes taken by Admiral Lord Dun
can, is, in compliment to his Lordlhip, to
be named the Camperdown.
The RufTel, commanded by Sir Henry
Trollope, is ordered to fail far the western
lies, on which (tation (he is to remain two
years.
The Tifiphone man of war, of 20 guns,
capt. W. Honeyman, which brought over
the young Prince of Orange from Cuxha
ven, is gone to thcTexel with a small cut
ter, for the pnrpofe of ascertaining the
Dutch Naval Force in that harbour.
The part of the Laneafter Canal, lately
' opened, extends from Fewit Field (about
two miles forth us Burton in Weftmoreland)
to Spittal Moss in Preston, 39 miles upon
one level. It run* ia s paralled direftion,
j and very near to the great north road from 1
Preston to Kend*!, yvhith is,crofled in the
I above length fix times. There are one hun
dred and fourteen road and occupation brid
ges, and two road aquedufts. Twelve riv- ,
ers are crofTed, and a greater number of
fmallcr dreams.
, Yesterday dispatches were received at the
Admiralty from Captain Newman, of the ,
Mermaid frigate, dating that on the ift. he '
fell i« witS L'Aventure French privateer, j ■
in the Bay of Biscay, which he captured ,
without any loss. '
Admirals De Winter and Trefteng.
The following two articles appeared in the
Haerlem Gazette of the 7th and 9th S
December:
1 c
Vice-Admiral De Winter to citizens J. En- j a
Jhade and Sons. I J.
cirrztNt, '
Having, upon my return to Holland, t
seen an advertisement in various papers, in c
which rear admiral Slays Van Treflong de- -
firei the writer of the account of the aftion
of the 11 th of Oftober, to make himfelf £
known, I feel it my duty to inform yoii, e
that the above account is an extraft from , o
the report which I made to the committee I li
of marine aflaira, taken from fafts which I I
at fi\v with miue own eye,' J U ria> the iltiou,
!)d and verified by the 3of t're finals
an tr.auc upon th»t occa.lon. I atn concerned
to be obliged by rear admiral Ways Van
Treflong to make this declaration ;"aad no
thing will lit:; me more pleafare than to find
that tlvc said rear-adirtiral may, at a proper
time, br able to make such a defence as fhali
or ful.y exculpate hi.Ti from all the chargescon
taine'd in the above mentioned acoouat { till
•rs which time ; reserve all further coufirmati
b- on of the fails ft?.ttd therein.
- Db Winter.
p- Amflerdem Dec. J. 1797.
« IV underfigßed reaV-admiral fil-yi Van
:a Trejliag Iwynig, with much altonifhment,
n perceived, by the Haerlcm Gazette of the
il- 71 ■l, that vice-admiral Tie Winter owns ftiixi
i!t fe!f to be the ar.tbcr of a certain account of
ill the aftfon of the nth of Oftober, publifh
:r- in the riewTpaperg without a name, and
k. refpefting w!m h the nnderfigned inserted an
of advertiiemcit in the iaid llaerlem Gazette
th of the 28tU ci November, the said re»r-:td
miral hrr'eby declares, that he (hall now qui
— etly wait to fr; the frtoafi the fud vicr-ad
irt rr.iral may have to bring forward of the fc&n
a dabzing and untrue pafition* dated in the
re account in queftiort, and conGrmed in the
ly Hierlem Gazette of the 7th: in the mean
CS time the uuderfigned is fully afiTured the af
le, filtance which the Bru:uj{ without lignal he
re i''g made for the purpofc) endeavored to give
y, towards the relief of Vryheid, together with
tr the whole conduct of the underfilled,(corn
ea pared with the written order of the Vies
admiral) will, at the proper time be folly
he proved to be such as not only to exculpate
a* the underfrgiK-d from itiy breieh of dufv,
r- but to cb.ivince even the vice-admiral him
r; lrtf, together with the wh«lc nation, tha,
he (rear admiral) did 0.1 the nth of @ito.
f- her all that could be expected from art 01H
m cer of honor, and a trpe lover of bis conn
•ir try. J. A. Bloy- Vak Tieslonc
jjj mm 11 iiiwi n
J Xij? oa>ctte»
m PHILADELPHIA \
t . THURSDAY EVENING, March 21.
e- The Eastern Mail arrived at a lata hour
I- this day, but brought nothing new.
[CIRCUL AR to the COLLECTORS 0} the <VSTO 't ]
Treasury Department, March 31.
SIR,
. IT has been determined by the PreGdent
of the United States, that under present
circumstances, it has become iieccffary to
modify the inftruftion* iflueJ from this de
partment on the Bth day of April 1797, in
J t such manner as no longer to restrain vtffels
c °f the United Statfs from failing in an arm-
cd condition, when dcltined to be employed
if >n * regular and lawful commerce.
p _ B ut though you are to ccnfider the gen-
eral prohibition as no longer remaining in
force, it is the express command of the Pre
r fident, thgt you seize and detain all vefTels
refpefting which there may exist reafouable
ground of fufpicimi, that they are intended
to be employed contrary to law and partic-
ukirly to the aft of Congrefi pafled on the
n sth day of June, 1794, "titled "An aft
" in addition to the att for the punishment
" of certain crimes against the United
S " States," or the ad pasTed the 14th day
' of June 1797> entitled "An aft to prevmt
11 " citizens of the United States from pri
. " vateering against nations in amity with,
" or against citizens of the United States."
e Yen will also consider it to be your duty
? to prevent evasions of the aft passed on tilt
.* '4 th ' ia y of June 1797, entitled «' A-n ad
" prohibiting for a limited time the expor
" tation of arms and ammnniti'in, and for
" encouraging the importation thereof";
by confining the quantities of the said arti*
cles which niay be returned as conftitiiting
the equipment of ahy vessel, within reason
able limits.
e A confident reliapce is entertained, that
all your proceedings under these infiriKth'na
will be marked with decision and impartial
ly* / am, with confiikraihn, Jir
1 our ebrdhnl fervaht.
OLIVER IVO COTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
The legislature of New-Jersey have pasT
r ed an aft for dividing that state into congref
(ional eleftion diftrifts. Tlie antifedenlifts
chuckle in the Aurora at this, fuppofrng it
: will conduce to an encreafe of the enemies
of the government in the houfeof reprefen
' tatives of the United States.
I The following extraordinary article it copied
from a London paper.
" A mulatto man died lately at Frederic
town, Virgihia, at (ihe extraordinary age of
' tBo years, 140 of which he was a slave to
the family of Col. Syms ! ! !"
; PORT OF PPIILADELPHIA.
ARRIViB.
Brig Betsey, , Baltimore
Fnends, s Halifax
Schr. Orange, Saule, New-Bedford 12 day»
CLEARFD,
Brig Adventure, Bioren, Hamburgh
Schr. Ann, Hall, St t Domingu
Phcebe, Johnson, North-Carolina
Ranger, CofTcy, Paflamaquody
The brig Vanfife from hence, ha* arrived
at Cape Francois in 11 days.
The (hip South Carolina, .Capt. Carman
|of ths port, arrived at Charleftoti the 6th.
■ after a passage of 10 days-(he made the
j bar in 3 days from the Capes of Delaware,
but was prevented getting in through con
trary winds, (he was to fail from tlience 1
on the 16th instant.
45* lhe Members of the Welch
I Society are requeilcd to attend an adjourn- '
eel meeting on Saturday the 24th ihll. at 7
j o'clock tn the evening, at the house of Wil- 1
Ilkui Ogdeu. t
Owes Foviss, Stt'rj.
>, v .
J . G T \ r S K HG %
SAMUEL HOWELL,
n
NO. 54, STREET.
j Wants to purchase good G7.vsf.va,
, r gathered in season, an J clear of damage"
|j for which a generous price will be given if
delivered any tirtie before the 15th of April.
; march ai lot
• NtW-THKATRr.
Mrs. Marshall's Sight.
TO-MORROW EVENINO„ 2a,
1 Will be prcftßtfj (ne*er pc farnud htrc, a J'Ra
■ GFDY, called,
« TANCRED & SIGISMUNDA.
* [Written by Thompson, the admired author of
f the Seasons.l
Tancfcd, (firft time) Mr. Fenaell
j Farl Osmond, Wigncll
Siffredi. Warren
Roiiolrho, Wirrell, jus.
e 111 Officer, T. WarreU
id Officer, Hunter
Guards, Meflrs. lavaccy, LafFer y, See.
I aura, Mis* L'l' ll'ang#
Sigifmunda, (firfl time here) Win, M-rlhail
Kndof an
MRS THRALEV THRFE W ARNINGS J
e A J»!cral Tale* By Mr, Per.ard.
n End of Play,
A CI'RF FOR A S Ol,n ;
A Comi Tale By Mr B.rnsrd.
To which will be added {for thr fir 1 time on thi*
e llagi.) the Grand Fuftoiieal ' i ma >re of
Richard Cceur de Lion.
[Taken item the French of 'M.i.s S,d nc—With
the Original Overture Music, i-y Geiry —the
f - a cc.imp inimtnts by the lare Mr Linley—ai
e perfmflicif at Drury. 1 .ar n Theatre upwards of
Sixty Si u ht» ;a the S^afou.
' Richard. Mr Marfhail -
Sir.Qv.efl, Darlcy
t BkffltiM, V'rrdinge
. . HI. r ».>«, (GOT. of the Cafde) Fox •
Guilot, Blifle't
Ol MutiheW, War. 11
T. «'arret!
Cat rain o Matilda's Party," Wane), juh.
■ nthonia, Mis« Milbourne
P afar.ts—-Me(Trs T avanry alTtity, Huatcr,
Matthew, Sic
t Lafles—Mrs W-rr"', Mr,. Stuart, Mrs Hunter,
Mad. H'rwood, Miss An 'erfrn.
Matilda, Mri. V.arfhall
Laurette, Mn. Tldmixon
Julie, Miss HarJi ge
Eoicaa, M rs L'li:;r.,ng«
r toilette, MiffL'-Eflrang.
A PAS i ORAL inrideatal to the pi.c*
—By Mr. and Mrs. Byrne, Mr. Warrell, iun.
and Mi/s Vjf^urnc.
Tic rijing tf tie Curtain Jifc rs
A distant view of a strong ■ alhe, in a Mountain*
oua Country—with a Rural F te
t Atft 11. Opens with the interior view of the Cas
t tie—win F.ffe,- Ramparts t'latform, Draw
bridge, Jcc
Tie Farce concludes ivitb
A grand attack oh the t aft e— he defeat of tita
) Governor's Party, aad the relloration of Rich
j ard to Liberty.' .
O" l'ifkets to be had at the usual places, and of
1 Mar <h 11. at Mr O'Leas'i Ko Archftr.
*.* Qn Monday (never performed here) a Co
medy, called, HE vVOIJLD BE A SOL..IER i
with a celebrated Musical Romance, called, I HE
I ■- f<r, CY ViON and SYLVIA
-"For the benefit of Mr*. OlUaiiXon
3 *+* BaßX.i»«'s Night will he on.sVed
i.efday noxt.
i notice;
rHREE Cert fiia>c. of an Per Cent. Deferred
Dcbtof tlie United Stares yi the te,lowing
efcription, viz —No. ioo jj, 100,14, and
.'•r 5000dollarsraeh, dat d «:h May, 1797, 4 ni
j ilan.ing aivthe books of the I'real'ury of the Uni.
ted f>t*U», in thf ol Benjamin Wad,lii,gton,
Lanover H.>«le,near vergavenheytr -liijgUii
havt. bieu leit I y the c, ( t«r 01 t/ic ;bip Bac
kus from h. ne: to l.oiidon in June lai>._ I n,,,
thereloie notifies those whom it may evneern that
I 4*t I'cutiun wiij bemad at the 1 reafary «. the U
nitedStatesfor » resiewal «f the fame
ft adding an Ha r wood.
march tt \ ■,
Molasses at Aadion.
On WSD-JIWsY i-X t . -Bth Mat no'■
cloikin- e
Will be fold by Pufylit Auctuon, j
'ok cash, ' *
Forty Hogiluads of Mblaflcs,
... 81),. a CU >Lt . Y
Fmtman is" Co. Auctioneer*.
• »-cli tj
i o he Sold .it
On Thursday, 22 d Maah, at 7 o'clock ia
the Evening, at the Merchant'* Coffe«-
Houle Second ilreet.
\ B;(l K H U.Uv, tojjet er with the Lot
lr reia eloll « the city of 3urlinjr
ton, N w-Jerfey. Vkt hoisf, 1„» ,hrce room,
e.ow.and three chajnbtrs in the upper IWr.
Ihe kitchen adjo OMig is a ,'ra tie I iildmg Ib e '
.. M has a front of ja feet oa P«rl-Hreet, and
• e lame front on [he river Delaware. The
•)gth of (he L<t it aho ,t feet _j he h.,uf ß
mma..d» a very p| c3 f IB i profpeft „f ,he river,
<itht B..ro„ghufßnft 0 1, „ Blllc . l» cniliy va>l;t
inorc fmnncdiatc pnlT lJioB may he haa. For
irther ptrticulars, inquire of Mr. J.,h. Si ra „
ext door below the City ! avern in Fhiiadel
pkia, or the fubfenber in Bu linjron.
at'ti.-r.e ..ffaU.
MAN icf Co. AuSlonetrt.
Twenty Dollars RewardT^
J HE Store occupied on account of the United
St a««. hack of No. 71, North Water-duet
as on the night of the t 9 th inftaht (Ma.ch) bro
en open, and the following articles stolen, and
ken rherefrom : '
Nine piecei Stroud, viz.
237+ ao i yd*.-)
2378 20 \ C "^ lie ftfoud fiugle
2 379 ao * J <ord
-2380 20 \ -
2381 a«A
2382 20
2383 20 * iwoaord.
2384 20* - ,' '
2 385 20f
U.e ahoye reward is offered, for the difcoverr
-f the perpetrators of this robbery, so that thev
he apprehended, and made amenable to iufticea
urther reward wdl be paid, for th. recov ry of
ume P t«' " good * ft<,lcn ' 110 deU * cr y •» «h«
JOHN HARRIS,
march ar. ' StorM
——lW
;"" " J he Subscribers for the publication
unjer thejignaturc of SciP/o, are inform*
td that it is n»n> rsad\for deliver». 7b»
iris* u aj Cents. >Tj it S*d,
Aii •legant Couutry Seat,
Containing $ acres and 40 perches, with a >cat
rwc ft or j brick Hoiifr and kitchen thereon, an ap
ple Orchard, <te iit'jate on the Irilh traA lane, m
the township ot Moyameafiag, about one mils from
rile city of Philadelphia. Farther parti;u!>n will
he - d« knuwK upon application at the ofi«c of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvement! upon thii plaoe, far tafia and
dcgMtce lkand unrivalled.
!< J. B> tf the above place is not fold befort the
j<nh iaft. it will then be rcatad, for the Summer
fcfon only. { march J.
Wanted,
An a&ive, cleanly, industrious wamaa teeook
and do the bahnefa us the kitchea. Such a one
will be allowed good wages, and no other seed ap
ply—Enquire of the Printer-
February J }
Notice is hereby given,
' I 'HATepplieatioa will be made fo# the renewal
X of a Certificate of a Share ia the Bank of the
United States, Sanding ia the naaaa of the Subscri
ber, No. 5*04, aad dated July 11,1797 —the Same
having been loft.
JOHN GRAHAM.
march S >6w
TO LIT,
And may 4» cnltrtd a* immsdiattlj,
A good dry Store,
Thraeileries high, and in aa excellent Sand for
tafiaafe. Apply to
Thtmm iff Jofltua Fit*,
march I. 5 tic, s. Dock-ltrca^
Wanted to live in the Country,
About five miles from thia city, a sober dea
dly Man who understands gardening and the
management of a few acres of laad, and would
not objefl to attend a couple of horfee. Such
a one nay meet with liberal wages by applying
at the oflce of thia Oaaette.
N. B. Ncae aeed apply hut those of unex
ceptionable charzflert.
March it. dta
1 m < ii ■■■■ m ■■■ ■■ .1
Custom House,
DiJtriS tf PIUNSTLVANIA, Af»ll 6(*, I7j7>
MERCHANTS of PHILADELPHIA,
who may have any account or knowledge ul
the capture or detention of aay fhtp or velTel, tar
go, or other property, beloaging to citizens of the
United States, rcfiding within this diilriS, by or
andcr the aatherity of foreign nations, since the
flrft day-ef O&ober, 179 a, are particularly requct
ted to give in information thereof, to the Collec
tor of the Port of Philadelphia, as soon as may
be convenient; fpecifying the name of the vessel,
•he captain's name, the number of tons, the efli
mated value of the vefel, if condemned, the esti
mated value of her cargo, or other property, whi
ther carried, and by, or under the authority of
what nation captured, with fitch observations as
nay be thoaght neeefiary upon the circuixftances
of each cafe, in order that ftatemertt thereof may
be tremitted to the Secretaiy of thcTreafury,
who it required to lay the fame beforr the Senate
and Houfu of Representatives of the United States.
rr.arch 7. jiot
w.4,a fan
A Gerdtner—a Single Man.
None need apply, unleft he can bring good re
commendation;.
Enquire at No. ja Merkct-flrcct.
ry.arch T7.
FOR SALE, 1 ~
By WHARTON 6f LEWIS,
Mo. iij South Front Street.
A quantity of Tanner's Oil,
4th proof Jamaica Rum, > entitled to
1(1 and »d proof Brandy, f drawback.
Madeira Wine,
Juniper Berries, ice. ica
Fab 9. eodtf
Valuable Property for Sale.
FOK SALE,
npHAT well known Eflate, called 6MRIWS-
X BURY FARM, formerly the reGdence of
Oeneral John Gadwalader, firuate on Saffafrai Ri
ver, in Kent county, Maryland—containing a
bout 1900 acre* of prim* LAND, apwirdief (00
cf which are in woods. The Buildings are all ex
cellent, and consist of a handfume Dwelling Houfc,
two large Barns with Cow houses, Stables for fifty
horses, a spacious treading floor uuder cover, a
granary, two • Overseer's houses, two ranr
get of ttyo story buildings for Negroes (one of
them mw and of I rick), Corn houses, a Smoak
house , Sc. &c.—The whole Eflate being nearly
furroundrd by water, it requires but little fencing,
•ndhas a good Shad and Herring fifhriy. It it
• Sonveniemly fitaated for both the Philadelphia and
Baltimore markets, with two landings on a navi
gable river but a short fail from Baltimore. There
U a large Peach, antkwo large Apple Orchards on
thepiemifes; also, a variety of excellent fruits of
different kinds. The foil it mottly a rich loom.—
The whole will be f -Id together, or divided into
/trailer farms (for which the buildings are conven
iently situated) at may suit the purchaser. The
Stock op said Farm, consisting of Horfitt, Cattle,
Sheep, fcc. will also be disposed of.——For further
particulars apply toGxoaoz Hastings, on the
premifct, or to the fubferibsr". in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jwk.
February £4. aaw6w
Bafkenridge—for sale
IT eonCftt of 910 acres, ilmoft all of which ii
a fine rich Meadow, (the refideßccof the lzte
Earl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which arg bounded on the
Bail by the river Pafaick.
Tiure are on it a number of bnildings, forming
a square of nearly three acru—The dwelling house
is a vsry convenient or.e andja small expefnee would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard confiftt of 1509 finsbeariog ertgraf
ad Apple Trees—and there ii on other parts of said
trad «ear 300 other Apple Treea—at also a great
variety of other fruits .particularly Cherries of the
bed and sisft delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
Pored Treos, that add to the beauty and eonveni
ence cf the place. Its lituation it ab&ut 18 miles
from the towni of Newark and Elizabeth : to do.
from Morris-Town, and 11 from Springfield It
it wooded and watered.
To fare trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
incalh, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chcfnut trcct.
February*. todtf
Canal Lottery—-No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the 10th
intt. Tickets for Sale m this Lottery at
Dtllsrt, at W'm. BLACKBURN', l.otiiry
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Secoad-flreet—
7.ckets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ta
D-ttari, where check books are kept tor regiller-
Ing »nd examining in these, the Oity of Washing.
ton, No 11. and Pattvrfon Lotteries, and informa
tion wh.re tickets may be had in molHof the Lotte
ries authcrifed tfy law in apy of the states of the
Union.
N.B. The bifinefsof a Bnnxta, inbuyingasd
fclling all kinds of Pablic Stock and Securities
difcoaating Bills and Note, of Hand, sale of
luands, Hoafes, See. kc. will be duly attended to
ky / BLAfCKBURN. '
j
PROPOSALS,
Insurance Company of North America.
For ImuaANCE against Fia*, on Dwelling-
Houses, . are-House.. and other Buildings (aad
on Coods contained iufuch Buildings) diuant troai
Philadelphia, in ths United States.
I. Common lufurancet, on hazards of the fir®
dafs, will be undertaken at a premium o. ahoilt
hall per cent, per annum. For extra hasardous
riiqass a larger pretriam will be requires,, wh.i.
will vaiy according to'circumftances, feiuom ex
ceeding one per cent, per annum ; but in some in
flances, where the property infurcd ia not only m
itfelf ertra hazardous, hut rendered ftdl mo« lo
by the vicinity of extra hazardous building* an<
occupations, tha premium demanded will be ''*■*-
according to circumstances.
Hoales and Ware Houses, the walls and parti
tions of which are wholly Of flone or brick, wei
conf&uAed, so a- to be guarded as well as may be
again* fires from within, ar.d tree Irom extra na
aardous buildings and occcupations in their neig -
borhood, will be deemed hazardous of the firtt
daft, and may be insured to their foil value.
Also Goods and Merchandize, not of an extra
hazardous kind, in calks, bales, or pacsAgsfl, de
pofitcd in such buildings, to an amount not ex
ceeding 4000 dollars; bat if more than thit f«m
is required to beinfnrad in one tenemcat, an add>
tional premium will be reqaired, ia proportion to
circumftancet. ,
11. Infuranees will also be made on buildings and
goods extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to tha risque. But it i s not easy to arrange these
under particular heads or daffes, so as to defcrihe
each with tlhe necefiary accuracy. Each cafe must
therefore be derided apen according to the c.-rcum
ftances attending it; aad these circumftanees Win,
in general, appear from the description accompa
nying the application,
Ba ldings partly conflrnfted of brick or uone,
are preferable to those wholly wooder. And in
both cases, the flile of buitting, how thsy are oc
cupied, how they are situated, the neighboring
buildings, and how occupied, are confederations to
be taken into view. And wkh rdptA to goods,
thati'tendency, yrhether from their nature, or
from the manner in which they are sxpofed, either
to commence or to iacreafe an accidental fire, and
their liability ia such state to receive damage by
wet. or by sudden and hilly removal, or to be Ro
len in time of tofifufion and hurry, are all eir
cuniftauces of weight; and the premiums mull be
proportioned accordingly.
in. The following conditiont are to be under
stood hy the parties .
ift. The Insurance is net binding till tho ftipu
lateu premium he paid ; but it shall be deemed ef
fectual from the time of such payment and accep
tance thereof, whether the policy be immediately
signed or not.
ad. Infuranees may ba renewed at the expira
tion of the term of the policy, without further ex
peafaa than the payment of tha premium of the re
newed term, the circumftanees continuing the fame
at they were anderftood by tha Insurers at tha time
the former insurance was mad* ; but the payment
of the premium is effientia! to fcch renewal; and
if the party insured faCfcrt any time to efapfe after
the expiration of the formes infarance, before be
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
during fnch time ; nor can the insurance be renew
ed an the former policy but by computing the
commencemenU>f the renewal from the expiration
of the former Tnfnrance. The fubjefi of insur
ance may nevertheless be open to treaty for a new
insurance.
3d. If any other inAirance bentadeon the fame
property ; it must be made known at the time of
application, otherwifa the policy made on such ap
plication will ba void.
4th Goods held in trull, or on consignment,
may bo insured at such in a separate policy ; but
they are not to be considered as insured otherwise.
sth. This company will not be liable or accoun
table for any loft or damage occafionsd by any for
eign invaflsn, or by apy military or nfarped force,
or by peafon of any civil commotion ; or occasion
ed by gunpowder, aauafortit or other thing of the
like kind kept in the eailding, or amoagft the pro
perty inftrcd.
4th. Bills as Exchange, Bonds aad other Secu
rities, Title Deads, Money, Bank and other pro
miffery Notes, are not included in any infarance ;
nor are paiatiogt, medals, jewels, gems, aatiqae
curiofitict, or mirrort exceeding thevalae of twen
ty-five dollars each, to be considered as iafurcd un
less particularly mentioned and by fpecialagree
mcat.
7th. No iafaranca will bt made for a shorter
term than one year, nor for a longer teraa than se
ven years. Pcrfons choofiag to infaro for seven
years shall ba allowed one year's premium by way
of difeouat: One third of a years premium shall
be abated w like manner on an infuraace for
three years.
Bth. Loflaa faltained by fire en property insured,
fltall be paid in thirty days after due prouf and ii- |
qaidatioa thereof, without dedudtioa.
A defer iptioa of the property to be iafarod will
ba sxpe&ed with each application, to be made by
a master carpenter and signed by him, at well as
by the owner of tha building or applicant for in
farance, and attefled before a Notary or principal
Magistrate, who will certify his knowleage of the
parties and their credibility.
With refpea to Hcuf,j anlnhtr Buildings,
lit. The site and pofiti. n ; describing the
street or road on or near which the building
flaods , itacontiguity to water, aad ether cir
eumftancea relative to the e*tinguifltmeatof fire
in cafe of aecident; and particularly whether
any and what fire companies are eftablilhed, and
engines provided,in the place or neighbor hood.
*d. Ihe materials ef which it ia built, whe
ther of brick, (tone or wood, aad what part of
each, at well at to theoutfide walls aa infideor
partition walls, and the r relpeclive height and
thickness ; the style of the reof and of what
materials ; how secured by battlements or par
ty walls j what kind «f access to the top of the
house and t« the chimniea 1 whether aay aad
what eledtric rods ; the number and kind of
ire places j aad the kind of deposit for athes.
3d. The dimensions of the building aad how
I divided, and the style in which it is finilhed so
at ta enable indiffereut perfont to judge in what
manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury ; the age and condition of tlie building
and how occupied, whether merely at a dwel
ling house, or for any other, aad for what par
pefe , also an estimate of the value of the koule
or buildmg independent of the ground.
4th- Ti.efituation with refpedl to other buildi
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at least one hundred feet
cich way : what kind of buildings arc within
that diftaace, how bi;ilt, of what materials, and
how occupied or improved, whether a* dwel
hags for private families or otherwise : whe
ther any and what trade or manufactory it car
ried on, and particularly whether there be any
extra hazerdoiU articles used, or usually depo
sited in the heufe, or within the diilance afore
faid, and of what kind.
Refpefling gotJt in Houses, Warehouses, &c.
J. A general description of the building in
which they are kept will be expefled, Gmilar i,
all refpeds.at to tne danger from fire, with that
felve's lßfurlnte buildings them
t. A description of the kinds and nature of
the goods, whether in calks or o'her packages
or opened ; and whether displayed in whole
ptecet or in th. usual form for retailing. And
it the goods vary materially in kind, a general
efumate of the value of oech kind proposed to
n cfs of <lefcription i« no« dctm .
*. Articles of the roi degree*,
ed extra haaardous, be placed, viz.
in whatever bnilding ibty oil,
pitch, tar, turpentine* \ernn, flax, cotton,
inflammable fpint§, {up ' J. opened- —
-ry g»d. of an m*£ lly »«-
Oh", chma wire or awceiara. r- d all a .
xs^^zi&ssz
the application contain an only, it
bt am wered.
Br or«kf of the Boird,
EBENE2ER HAZARD*
Office Of the Infararoe Company effort* 7
Pbilad. Feb. I, »79«- i
Feb. 14- r
Ho-afe and Lots, in Borde f °™"\
-TO BE SOLD, a handsome two story .joufe,
X with the Lot on which i« «• cre&e< >
ed about the rmddle of tbe heam.W and heal.hy
Village of Bordentown. The houle i y
two L in front, £
contain, one acre, u* w , rh thr fame
£*? tolckflreet.
taining nearly four acres, fcparattd from the
SmJ by back street. One third only of the
purchase money will be required -
jng a deed, and for the remainder, ft. cred t
be given as the purch.fer may < bu.e.
property will be fold free of all ir.«uß%rance.,
and an indisputable title given
For further particulars enqu.reeither of Dr.
William Burne«, refidnig in Bordentown, near
the premises, who JcnZ
PETER THOMSON, (
Conveyancer, No. t}, Mulberry-street.
Boston Glass Manufactory.
THE citizens of the United States are hereby
informed, that the m»nufaA«r. of Window
Glaft i« sow ccirmcnced at the Glass Houft in
B It is needkfs to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of the Boft-n Glaft, as it is so well known
throughout the United States to be m every rcf
pe& greatly superior to any ever imported from
It will he cat to any size commonly used ; and
may be constantly had by applying to Chatde, F.
Kupfer, at the Glass House. tJ ' ,
Orders from the distant States t® be addrsned to
Mr. Ssmmtl Gere, Court-ftroet, Boston.
Two or three good Glass makors ai« want
ed at the above works; fnch is can produce re
commendations for good behavior, may b« sure of
employ, by application to Mr. George L% Lindt, at
the workt. Men withont families will b« pre
ferred. However unacquainted with th* method
of waking Crown Window Glass, they will meet
with tha fame encouragement.
Bofion, January 16 1' —lawfiw
i NiwTtri, February, I 79 8 -
PROPOSALS™ GEORGE FO RMAN,
i roa rtiKTiHi bt s«*scriftion,
A New and Valuable Work, which has been ex
tant only fix m*nth»—entitled
PROOFS of a CONSPIRACY agaiaft
all the Religions and Governments of EU
ROPE, carried on in the secret meetings of Free
Masons, Illuminati, and Reading Societies. Col
lected from good authorities,
By JOHN ROBISON, a. *.
¥rtft£er *f Natural PhiUfophy, and Secretary It tie
Seyal Surety of Edinburgh.
Nam tea ret agitur partee cum proximat arid.
0" THIS work will he put to preft as soon as
400 fuhferibers are obtained, and no money requir
ed until the is completed.—lt (hall be print
ad with an elegant new type, and on paper of su
perior quality, which will comprift about 400
pages neat odtavo, handsomely bound and lettered
—the price Will be one dollar and fifty cents.
Thofa who procure t} fabferihers, and become
accoantable, mall have a 13th gratis—and the u
sual allowance to bookfellera.
%• Tar above work cosacs from the pen of J.
Robifon, of Edinborough, a gentleman in high
estimation ia the literary world—tha l'a<ss therein
recorded are well substantiated, and thereafoning
and argument thence deduced, while they difce
ver the foand jadgaaent and penetration of rhe
writer, are calculaced to amuse *1 well at to in
ftruifl. A scene of villainy is developed by the
author fufficieiit to appal the stoutest heart.—The
danger to be apprehended from secret focietias is
clearly pointed out ; the degeneracy of human fu
ture awfuUy illuftratad, and the hazard of every
deviation from the ftratght path of reJigion and
of virtue, incontedibly proved both to the politi
cian and the christian by stubborn and incontro
vertabla fi&t.
t+t Suifcripti—e tale* in iy G. Forman, No. 46,
IVilliam-jireet, oppefite the Poft-Ofluf, and by the re/pec
Ine hccifcclUrr in Nm-Teri and Philadelphia.
February 18.
, Ntvj-York, January n, I*9B
PROPOSALS
By Arondt Van Hook,
t Proprietor of the Seading Room ;
For Publi<hing bf Subfcriptian,
An Appeal to lmoartial Posterity,
By Madameßoland ;
Wife of the Minister of the Interior inFrance.
CONDITIONS.
These scarce and very valuable Historical Me
moirs, (which ran through two London edi
tions in a few months,) will be comprised in a
vois. of 400 pages each.
They will be printed on fine paper and a new
.type, and delivered to Subscribers, neatly bound
and lettered, at 1 dollar and 50 cents per vol
ume-one third of iheSi bfcription money tobe
paid on delivery of the firft volume—the re
niaiuder when the work is compleat.
To Prihters, Bookfcllers, and otheri, who
acquire Subfcriptiens, the usual allowance will
be made.
£JT Subfcriptiom are taken at the Heading
Room, No. 149, Water street -the Printing-
Offiee, 149, Ptarl-ftreet—and at the different
Bookstores in New-York- Also, by William
Young, corner f Second and Chefnut street, nd
' h , e , E . d "° r . of the Gaiettc of the United States,
rhiladelpkia.
As f..cm as a fuffic'.ent number of Subscribers
are obtained, the work will he put to press, and
compleated with the utmost dispatch
Frh - "• eodim
For Sale,
A good situation for a Country Sbat,
wfhin R """ of I,u<l on the old York Road,
W'thin fight of Ger nan town and about fiv. mile,
rom the City, the whole being under go»d fence
and in excellent order as pasture ground. '
For further information and terms, apply to
Jonn Eluqtt CRass°M, at hi. office for the
High-firMt. Conreyancinj, 4cc. No.v,,
ad no. «6*. „ WIW
treasury department,
1 lv MARSH 1, 179&.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
r«_ Ia „f Ceoercf, massed on the fi«h day of July one th.ufand fevea hundred at<
iH ptsrfuanea of the A« *| | a F oa Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", and the
ntaety-feven, e>Mtlea " December, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-fevea, eatitkd
A a passed 011 tf ' c si , . limited time ch« commencement of the duties imposed by the Ad enti.
" AnAa topoftppneto gMmpe d Vellum, Parchment and Piper", that from and after
tW "An Aft laying j ; , verll i :anj?c d Duties htrer.ftsr enumerated, wiU be levied afld
SS'kK"
n • , r.irre ©f Vellum or Parchment, or fceet or piece of Paper, «pon which &all t*
For every fki«i» JP f iu ft rumeut s or writingslollawing—to wit :
written or printed any or euuer o
An» C"tiß"te cf the admiffioe,enrolment er registry of 5
A 7nvScUorSucitor, Attorney, Advocate or Profl.r, m any Court of the
United States, c " ert iS rat e m any "one of the Courts of the United States
Pr Z± of Lfaid Oicc,, (h.all so far a. relate, to the payment of the v
Sav "orejaiu", .be a efficient aclmiffion i» all the Court, of the United
e » tArfi' K ind'cvtrv of the f3id (uiiccs*
Auv Ortnt oi' Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United State.
/vr,nt Tor landi cranted tor military services) - - 4
A iv e"empUficatioH or certified copy of any fuck grant or letter, patent, (ex
cept for laud, granted for military ferv.ces) - - »
• V,rtv Bottiinry, or Refpondentia Bond, - 1
JSSSt*- t ' ,fcharge oror on accountef anyLcgacyleft by any Will or .-
tU Samentary inllrument, or for any (hare or part of a personal estate d.
•jL hv force ot any statute of diftr'Cbutions, other than to the Wife, Chil
drenorkrand Ch.ldren of the person dcceafed.the amount whereof (hall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and shall not exceed the value of One Hun
w'h« theSunt thereof (hall*exceed the value of One Hundred Dolkr. and * 5
shall not exceed Ave hundred dollars, -
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollar., the additional furo of t
\»v Policy of Insurance or inflrsment in nature thereof, on anyfhip, veflel or
/ood. infnred from one diftrifl to another in the United State., »5
From the ijnited Sute. to any foreign port or plaee, when the futn for whu.ii
Insurance is made (hall not .exceed five hundred dollars, - 50
When the Win infnred ftiall exceed five hundred dollar., - t
Apv Exemplification, of wlntniture fosiver, that (hall pas. the seal of any
Court, other thap I'uch a. it may be tie duty of the Clerk of such Court to
fumifhfor the use of the United States or fonje particular slate, - 50
Any bill single or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, proKiifTory
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or with the United State, or any state, or for their
use refpeflively, " " "
]( above twenty dollar, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, • 10
If above one hundred dollar, and not exceeding five hundred dollars, aj
If above five hundred dollar, and not exceeding one thonbnd dollar., Ja
And if above one thoufind dollar*, - - - - " 75
Provided, that if any bonds or note, (ball be payable at or within Gxty day»,
such bonis-or note. Oral] be fubjcA to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforefaic!—viz. - - * ~ • <
Tf above twenty dollar, and not exceedinj one hundred doHar., • 4
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred doll** s, l 0
If above fiv« hundred dollars and not exceeding one thonfand dollars,
If above one thousand dollars, - 30
Any Note, illhed by the banks now established, or that may hereafter be eftab
lilhed within the' United States, other than the no'« of such of the said Bank,
a. shall agree t* an annual competition, of one per centum on the annual di.
vidend. made by such Banks, to their Stockholder, rclpedively, according to
the following scale. *
On all note, not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - (1
On r.ll note, above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hand red dollar.,
Cn all notes above one hundred dollar* and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - • ... j
On all notes above fiye bnndred dollars, - - a
Any Protest or other Notarial aift, - " • *5 .
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfioa, or to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United State* a. bounty for aailltary services
performed in the late war, - - • • «5
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Cuftoaii or duties, for left than
five hundred dollars, - - - - » . I
For five hundrod dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, »
For more than two thousand dollar., ... j
Any not* or bill of lading for good, or merchandire to be exported,
If from one ditriiS to another diftrivfl of the United States, not being in the
fanae State, • • * 10
If from the United State* to any foreign port or place, - is
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effe<sa, made in any
ease required by law, (exeept in cafe* of goads and chattel, distrained for
rent or tax**, and-joods- taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share ia any Insurance Company, of a (hare in the Bank of
the United Itates, or of aßy State or other Baak,
If above twenty dollars and aot exceeding one hundred dollar*, - ;lo ~r
If above one knndfid dollars, * / * * %f
If under twenty dollar*, at the rate of ten cents for on* hundred dollar*.
11.
The duties aforef aid will be colle&ed and received by the Supcrrifors, lnfpe&ors and othef Ofßwr.
of InfpeAion, is the several Diftri&s, Snrveya and Divisions of the United States, and by such other
p»rfons as shall from to time be fpecklly appointed and employed by the SupcrvifoM of Dnlr. iii for
that purpose.
111.
The Supervifers of the; several Diftrids will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and a. soon as
may be pra<3icaHe. mark or stamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or paraelsof Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of the said duti.s j Or
ftamp«d vellui*, parchment andpapor r..av at the option of the Citiiens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rates prcfcribed by law, fcy application to any Sup'ervilor, InfpeSor, Officer of InfpMtow,
or other par ton appoiatcd for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervifor.of Diftrids.
GIF EN under my Haud, at Philadelphia
the day and year nbewentntined.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March TO. Secretary of the Trufury.
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands agaiuft
th« estate of Wiliih Fm (wtoob, of
Liverpool, lat: of Philadelphia, trerchwnt, de
ceifed, are requcfcej to exhibit th<ir accounts,
properly attffted ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, to
GEO. DOBSON, 7
No. i S , So. Third-street. 5 M - ,n i* r r
Jaauary 4. dtf
Just Published,
And to he had at th« Book-(lores of Messrs. Dob
son, Camps ill, Youno and Okmrod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
Oa the Causes and Cure of Remitting er Bilious
Fevers.
T( which it annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the op niom and practice of
different authors: and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting intsrefting (*£tt and refiediont relative to
the Synechia IBtrcidu, or Yellow Fever, which
ha« otcafined so much diftrefi and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the seaport
towns of rh« llnitfd States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE.
Falow of the Philadelphia College of Phyficiant,
and Member of the American PhiUiophicai So
ci »tT- Feb. 1—
For falc or to be let on ground
rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth flreets, fruiting the State-
Hi use square This lot is fifty-one feet front
on V alnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet aud an half on Fifth street ; there are at
I present two small two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon. 1
r _ Alfa, far Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient flo/es, wharf, G'uar* on
Water street, between Mulberry an-1 SafTafras
Streets containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and containing thatbfeadth east
ward |unety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
have the convenience of a public alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and area very defirablefit
uatio* for a a merchant, flour faflor, or others
who may have occasion f6r storage of govds.
This property will be fold on very reafon»b!e
terms for cash. For further information apujy
to the printer.
J U| T J*. • rnkMf
Salifbviry Estate.
THE Subscriber, propofioj to contraA hii boi»
ness, offers this Eftjte for Tale, on modetat*
terms. On it are one Blast and tbret Air Furnacss,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very goad grill
Mil I, with two pair of lionet; alio a good Forge, all
in pcrfeft repair, as are all the Water Works connsfl
ed with these various branches. The Air Furiuccs
were lately built for Uk purpose of calling Cannon
for this State.—There are abou two thousand aerai
of Land, one half of ivliich isundei wood, ttwothw
very fine arable Land, producing the bed Hay an#
Pasture. The Cannon lately mannfatlared there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which it
luperior to any in this country, and probably, eqaal
to aay in the world ; for not one of fixty-iine J»n»
lately made, althnugh some of the 14 were bor«4
into 32 pounders, have failtd on proving. The situ
ation is very eligible, particularly for this braoch of
manufacture, aad a place ot arms lying in the state
of Connecticut.and ouly go miles from several land*
ings on the Hudson's 1 iver, and having every advan
tage that can rctult from a plenty of water iffoing
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and whkh may be converted into a variety of other
uleful purpofei. Ihe purcnafer can be accommodsU
ed with all the stock and iltenfils, and have pofleffiun
on or betore the firtt of June next, and preparation
may be made in the mbanume for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every pait will be delivered
in good order, with forae coal, Ore, Ac. Ac. F<*
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia ; David Brooks, E'q. one of the Representative'
in Congress lor this State ; Mr, David Waterman, ot
the premises, or totheproprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEII-SON.
Dee. i. 3awtf
NOTICE.
A Manufaftory of yellow and delft ware,
Such as never was in this Country before hat been
been lately erefted at Ti?oii, Red Hook l*odin%s
on the East B*nk or Hudfon'a River, ft»'e ew "
York,
may be executed, as well as up«« «
ntw coiftru&ion. that saves three fourth* of thctutt
commonly used in c.aft iron flovc* or chymjii« #
they . fides very wholesome and ornamental, 1
""""" J. MOUCHET.
Wanted a fkillful baud to atteod to the bskinf aa
glazing part of the said wara. Generous
meats will be given. Apply aaaboie, or to
DAVID BROOKS, Esq.
No. 71 South s<h Street.
Feb. ifl. __ «»*«* ,
Wanted, to Hire,
ALarjfe aad cenvenient'HOUSK, »n or rr&
the certtreof the city—lor which a generous
rem will be given; to be taken for a year, or ofl
more for a lender term. Imanireof the Printer,
oa. i 7. «*