7//
#afette «i tse tiilttCtJ States, Daily Advertiser.
Zfy John Ward Fenno, N°* 119 Chefnut Street.
]V UMBER X 90 2. J
' ' . . r V 1"M • T-\ • n 1 1' tl 1
cO-The Subfcrihers to this Ga
zette at Germantown, to whom,
(owing to recent disastrous events) Mnt ,i
their papers may not be particularly nath,
directed, will be furnifhed widi them
on application at the Poft-Office, in rylan
Germantown, whither an extra coat
number, for that purpose, will con
ftaritly be sent. B>' 8 >'
Remote Subscribers for this Ga- j
zette are requested to forward pr. post,
the arrearages due from them refpeftiye- s
ty. Postmasters who may have receiv-
ed subscriptions are earnestly desired to 7
remit the fame. At this interesting and
■diftrefling crisis, attention to this notice 3 ,
Will.peculiarly oblige the Editor. 3.1
Philadelphia, September 26. i
r T I HEMaiI 'for New-Castle, Cantwell bridge,
X Duck creek, Dover, Frederica, Milfrrd,
Georgetown and Dagflboroitg'n, Delaware ;
Trop and Snowhift, Maryland, Horn Town,
Accomack court-bouse, ar.dNortharapton court
Jinufe, Virginia ; will be closed at this offic# ev
ery Monday, Wednefnay and Friday at bait past
eight o'clock, A. M. until ift day of April,
"1799*
ROBERT PATTON.
September 26 <^l,t
Bankl>f~tbe United States.
Philadelphia, September 11, 179^*
The public is hereby informed, that 1
an Office of Deposit and Discount will be opened e
OB Monday next, at the house lately occupied by jb |
Samuu Richardkt, near the Market Houfc in
Germartowft—where the business of this Inftitu g
tion vMI be tranfiicfted during the continuance o.
the malignant fever now prevailing in Philadelphia.
HENRY KUHL, AJiflant Cashier.
September 11 d_ < j e((
Bank of Pennsylvania. whi
THE Bank of Pennsylvania in removed to Ger- u "
mantown, —where the business will be tranfaifted equ
to-morrow, in the Union Sehool House. con
JONATHAN SMITH, Cafliier. ten
September 4 § ma
Wanted to purchase. ths
APPROVED bills on Amsterdam, for which Jr( '
calh will be gi Jen at the rate of thirty fe- wi[
ven cents per Guilder, Apply to the Cashier of - (
the Bank of the United States. so ,
September lid. noij. £ , e
For Sale. * J
THE Subscriber, intending to decline the t j, e
DRUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the th( ,
whole Stock of thi
DruTS and Medicines. Inftniments, &L _ DU ]
•f he (hop is elegant, commodious, and l'uthei- an]
ently known for the extensive business cone m the (ha
wholefile and retail line ; the Ctuation equal to at
any in the city, being at the col ncr of Walnut and
Second streets. The whole, or any part of the ; n ,
Stock, will ba fold, as will bed suit the purchaser. Pr(
Thu terms may be known, by applying to h(
JAMES MOORE, Jim. <i(]
Wlo hat For Sale, ___ ni.
Well calculated for the river trade— I
The Peggy, about 30 tonsburthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably
flout, of an easy draught «f water, rigging in
good order.
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
well, and in complete order for the lumber business.
£s* All persons indebted to the late firm ol
Galdthioait & Baldwin, IV. B Goldtbwait, Quia
jhutait IS 1 Moore, or the fuhferi'-er, are earnestly
requcfted to make lpeedy payment to
JAMES MOORE, jun.
august 3 §
Ship & Insurance Broker,
THE SuMceiber, encouraged by the advice
of his friends, offers his service to the pub-
Tic as a Ship and Insurance Broker. Hi pro
poses to buy and fell veflels and every thing re
lating thereto —affill mafl<rrs of vefieU and others
IB entering and clearing at the Cuftorn House,
procuring and (hipping freight, fettling Inlur
ance and all other mereantile accounts, and have
on hand the necessary Blanks and Stamps.
Papers in foreign languages tranfiated, and
information given in general mercantile matters
—From a knowledge gained by long experience
of every branch of business he hopes to be ufe
ful to those who please to favor him with thair
commands. S/!MV£I EMERY.
Philadelphia, auguQ 24th, i;9B- $
City Commissioners' Office,
August 30, 1798.
IN putfvrance of an ordinance of the SeleA and
Common Councils, pafled the 22d day of Muy
1798,
Pronofals in writing will be received by the City -
for one month from th# firft of Sep
* ember next, for letting to rent on leases for one
year, to commence the firft day of Januaay n«xt,
ihe following public property of the city—
The wharf and landing on Vine ft fee t, ,
Also on Saffafras, ,
Mulberry,
And Highftrcets.
Chefnut an" W'lnut flreets, Drawbridge, witl
the Scale and Fi(h houses, Sprite, Pin« and Cedar
,streets.
The Cellar under the City Hall.
The Cavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill
•with the lot<, contiguous thereto (except so much
thereof as shall be occupied by any buildings erec
ted for the u tie of the Collector of the Tolls, or be
neceffarjr for the toil gates.)
A Hated meeting of the City Comroilfioners will
be hcH at the City Hall every Tuesday morning t
ten o'clo k, during the present epidemic, eoim
TO BE LET,
And immediate possession given ;
A Large convenient, well finifhed house, No
i\s High-street, lately occupied by Doc
tor Wiftar, with Coach hoHfe and Stables
Enquire of WILLIAM SHEAFF,
No 168, Higb-jlrcct.
\ > ! r j 1 f
' I
Public Notice is hereby Given,
«.1 * A csrta
THAT Proposals under fealedcovers, will be
reeeived qn the of the United States
until the twentieth day of October next, Uy Jo At ml
nathan Jackson, EHj. at Boston, Maffachufctts, ante,
Tench Francis, Esq. Philaielphia, Pennfylva- the, t
nia, and John Swann, Efq at Baltimore, Ma
ryland, for supplying the following articles of I JT T
cloathinc, for the army of the United States, VV
viz. ' where
FOR INFANTRY.
8,448 Hats, of this
504 Serjeant Coats mist ti
504 ditto vests cases,
1,008 pairs do. woollen overall! jnfallil
1,008 ditto do. linen ditt« in<vcrat,
3,016 ditto shirts Invjau
264 Mufieians coats per [ant.
7,680 Privates coates tick ««
7,944 ditto vests and the
ij,BBB ditto woollen overalls isUkc
ij,BBB ditto linen ditto aaidm
3?,776 ditto (hirts
3.„79» pairs of Socks •
33,711 purs or flioes f T ,
8,448 ltocksof bhek hathef 1
«.clc>lp. K
8,448 blanket.. tiem ,
FOR CAVALRY. I atteflc
6 Muiicians coats r n ' l ''
a 6 Serjeant coats " *' *
! *6 ditto vetts '.J
104 ditto fturts Ifc/Jry
I 348 Privates coats
354 ditto veils ; ft
1416 ditto fturts perfo!
760 pair of Leather breeches W ;U p
760 pair of stockings , hand
760 pair of boots l grl g
380 Stocks of black leather p orte
380 Stock clafpJ the in
u 380 Blankets. _ nicat<
ill. Every article lhall be made of materials, N.
equally good, and in form, or fafhion, conform- der n
f ably to patterns for the lame, sealed with the day.
3 fral of the War-Office, and which will be de- W
posited with the several gentlemen, empowered this e
to receive the piopoflis, as above mentioned. Mr. i
sd. Sworn InlpeiSlol s (hall be appointed on by ce
the part of the United States, to examine and
- determiee upon the several articles aforefaid, ' e ''
when the fawne lhall be ready for delivery, with e
. full power to rejeil every article, which (hall not V
d equal, in gooilnefs of materials, or to be made
conformably to, the falhion of the flandard pat
tern for the lame; and no allowance fcall be
made, for any article which (hall be rejefted by
thsm, for the causes aforefaid. s
3d. The proposals muftlpecify the number »f
articles, and their kinds, which tlie party is
willing to fumiftt, together with, the lowest
prices for immediate payment in money, and al
io the prices, on the longelt term, or terms of M
_ credit.
One third of each, and every ef the several tion,
kinds of the above articles, to be delivered on
le the fifteenth day of December, one third on q
le the fifteenth clay of January, and the remaining
third on the firft day of March next; and the the
Z nllhlif vjll lint ■
!P" any of the aforeu* articles ofclo»uung, which The
ie (hall not be ready for infpeflion, and delivery, beau
t0 at the periods agreed upon. and
4th. The cloathing aforefaid will be received
le in the several states, at the places, and in the p| an
:r ' proportions foil )\ring, viz. One third part of I'srit
the whole at Springfield, Maflachuletts, one pii C ;
other third at Philadelphia, fta;e of Penofylva- j<ou
nia, or at Lamberton, state of New-Jerfcy, and
on» third at Baltimore, Maryland. u
jK sth. No contradf will be made, for a less •—r
r number of each of the aforefaid articles of J
cloathing, than is requisite for a company, viz_ T>
FOR THE CAVALRY.
n
' 4 Scrjeajit Coats futi
J 4 dittxi vests
,n 16 ditto (hirts .
~ 1 Musician Coat n
lis 58 Privata coats I
ess. J9 ditto veils bus
ol 236 ditto (hirti terl
63 ftosks me
■»y 63 stock clasps t h e
126 pair of leather breeches nie
126 pair of (lockings not
• 126 pair of boots any
6} blankets i pic
FOR THE INFANTRY. bc .
ice 70 Hats -2
4 Serjeant coats
ro " 4 d.tto vests
re * 8 ditto woollen overalls jo
'^ rs 8 ditto linen ditto ic.
' 16 ditto (hirts jo
lUr " 2 Muficixns coats
ave 64 Private coats
66 ditto vests
132 ditto woolen overalls
ters 132 ditto linen ditto.
ll^ e 264 ditto Shirts
280 pair of Sncks
18 280 pair of Shoes,
, 70 Stocks,
1 70 Stock Clasps,
70 Blankets.
5. JAMES M'HENRY,
an j Secretary ef Wif.
War Department, 7
sift Sept. 1798. J
City ,
Sep Weft-Indian from Madeira.
one ,
nxi, "
<C/* Those Gentlemen who have Wines
on board the Weft-Indian are informed (he is
now discharging at South-street Wharf, are fo
liated to halten down their permits, the Vessel
being immediately wanted, Peter Blight.
*dar Who wants to Purchase,
ido Barrels of gcod Prime or Mess Beef
100 ditto Pork
lkill 7 or 800 ditto fine Flour
nuch 4 or SCOO bulhels Indian C ru. _
£r ', c LANDING
From the Wett Indian, J,
swill choice parcel of Phelp'j old particular .
], r t Wine in Pipes fit for Immediate use. •'
Diru august 1.5 fiot b
— j.
0- Wanted—A Ctuation in aPub- .
/ lie or Merchants Office, or to go as Supercargo,
No by » person regularly brought up to the Mer- £
Doc- cantile and Insurance business in London, he has
i lately been a voyage from hence to the Weft-In
, dies as Supercargo, can be well recommended,
tet. —Please to enquire at'the Printer's.
| august 11
1
HAPPT DISCOVERT.
A certain Cure fur tjjt alarming and dreaJjxl Disorder
The Yellow Fever, A
As xvtll as arty oiler dangerous pu'rjd fewr, fever and
a<rue y w%l utber Inveterate and complicated dijjecfst, by ve '
the use of the and /
■ TT vm3
known and patented in 1-nglund,France, one j
, VV t'olan.l, and all the capital cities in Europe, j .
where the most aftoniQiing cure? have been effe<S- | al) j
ed on persons judged incurable by all phyficiam. a | rea
In aTrcatife printed in Loiu'on, on the properties w , te
of this powder, by T. Seymour, M. O. lateChs
mift ta his Majesty, there are dated two hundred coin J
cases, where this most valuable remedy has proved e j„u{
jnTallible, in ali iind of fevers, pleurisy, bloody ) r( .
in*cerate rheumatisms, sciatica, apoplexy, paralyse, yet' a j
loiu jaundice, ringworm, vjotius in children and in £ro-zvn
persons, while j, chronical head and flomach aches, hipa- jl, .j,
tick and nephretical or stone cholic, the tings evil, fcurvj _
and the moji inveterate and complicated vent real disease. lit £ c i cr
is likewise the best preparative for thclraallpox jjuili
aind mealies; ol the greatcft utility for young as [ tr „ c
well at for elder ladies at tbe critical epoch of their
life. The efficacy of this powder in iiiveral of the w -
■above diseases Las been dilcovered by (un (
so it has been in the yellow fever last year, by Mr. tr
Mahy, who cured several by administering only
two of the said powders, and loft not a single pa
tient which he uudertook to cure, as proved and n]aj|
attelled by the here annexed certificates, whofc ori- -j v- c
ginal may be seen at Andrew Hadfeg s umbrella stop, j-p r ■,
-V.. IJI, arner of Chefnut and Fourthftreets, the on- nt
ly place wh< re thei'e powders are to be had, with
proper dirc&ions for the use of them.—Price two u '
Mhr '- dale
The ufefulnefs and certainty of thi> remedy be- | lQr |
ing so great for so many dangerous disorders, any j
perfon wilhing to be provided with those powders,
will please to apply very soon, as the quantity at ls n
hand is rot very large, and it is doubtlul if for a ( j r j 3
Ung time, or if ever any other genuine will be im- ,
ported, the secret remaining only in the hands of j ror
the inventor, in Europe, and never being comma- lroj
nicated to,»r difcorered by any other perlbn.
'y N. Bln the yellow and putrid fevers, thispow- (
:»- der mull be taken tha lecond, or at liaft the third rcn
le day. r
e- We the fit'ofcribers, during the late sickness in
:d this city, having taken the yellow fever, applied to
Mr. for his medical affiftanee, we do here- j .
, n by certiiy, that by a certain powder, called the "
IC ] Ptudre Unijue, we were perfectly recovered from ,
the said fatil sickness, and from an experience of
,j, the happy tffeAs of the above most valuable medi-
t cine, coniider it our duty to make the fame known,
j c for the benefit of our fellow citizens.
Margaret Jones, •»-
' " Mylus O'Connor, V
JeiTe Turner, .n
'y Christen Rebecca Dow,
s Catherin Apple, .
•f Ann Grovcr, th '
William Bills,
David Williams, carpenter, w ]
il- William T. Donaldfon, mast-maker. rL
of Mr. Mahy's well known Plaifter, for all kind of _ e
wounds and fores, to be had at the above direc- L
•jl tion, No. 131, Chefnut street. w
jn _augu<t 8 2awtf ar
DU Qt.Vh.KAL very elegant bituations for Sum
"'K O mer Retreats, three and a half miles from
h e the Court House, and on the Frankford Road ;
. win ■ tjx mxutr lu iuii Tire~ptjrciiaiers.—
ch Thefe r fituationß are cenlidered in point of health
T> beabty and elegance, equal to any near the city,
and the road known to be fafe aud good at all
ed feafotif of the year. The title indisputable—A n
he plan of the grounds is in the hands of the fub
of lcriber, who will make known the terms on ap-
ine plication to him at his office No. 124 South
'a- Fourth Street. f
•nd ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER.
mav 2. stawtf
Vf John Haines ts* Wm. Jones,
IVI r>EG leave toinform theirfriends and the public, F
D that they have commenced a Co-partner(hip
in the SADDLING BUSINESS, which will in
future be earriedon nnder the firm of
HAINES Cs* JONES,
n Market llreet, No. 132, one dnor above the
corner of Fourth, —where they pi cfume (at least
to hope) that their attention to, and knowledge in
business, their determination to lervc on the best
terms, and their known attachment as Native A
mericans to the Government and Canftitution of
their Country, will entitle them to the encourage
ment of a generous public. Although they can
not boast of having acquired their experience in
any part of Europe, yet they take the liberty of
pledging themselves, that their uianufa&ure fltal
be inferior to none in this city,
june 26. tuthstf
OX BEEF.
100 Barrels of Beef of best quality, put
50 half Barrels ) up with carefor longvoyages.
ico Barrels of Connecticut Pork.
50 Barrels of Connecticut Tongues.
WINES.
35 Pipes of .Madeira Wine
30 Pipes of Vort
30 half casks of Sherry
30 Ca(ks of Lilbon
300 Cases of French ClaVet, of excellent
quality.
800 Barrels of Scraped FLOUR,
100 Barrels of Condemned, and
2a Boxes of best Durham Milliard.
For Sale by
John Skyrin,
Landenierger's IVharf.
may 4 eadt'f
James C. & Saml. W. Fijher,
" No. 13 A*ch-Strext,
Have for Sale
r ines 200 Calks bell refined Salt Petre
he is Best London Window Glass from 10 by 8 to
•e fn- 12 by 10
felTel Ditto Giafs War# in Casks
bt. of pint and half-pint Tumblers, Wine
GlalTes, Goblets, ttf.
ALSO,
A few Bales of Ked, White and Yellow Flati
— nels, Bnizes and Kendall Cottons.
jnne 27 jawtl _
CASTOR OIL
Is milch wanted ; Those who have
cu ar it to dispose of will find a ready sale
lot by applying to any of the Apotheca
lub- &
ccj" A Quarterly Meeting of the
Carpenter's Company vil' he held at their
,f. t Hall on Monday evening next at 6 o'clock.
nd " ed " JOSEPH WORRELL,
War Jen.
oftob«r 11.
FOR SALE,
SALISBURT. aso
A LARGE and well improved farm, contain
upwards of twenty-five hundred acres ol la '
vel fertile land, remai'lcably well adapted to graft, qj
jnd every kind of grain; there are now ore hun- p ren
dred acres ol Timothy meadow on it, perhaps not
excelled, from which, I have cut this year between g tate
one hundred and eighty, and two hundred tons ot
hay; upwards of three hundred acrismore of this
land may be converted irito meadow equal to that
already made, the greater pait of which nmy be —. —
watered at a small expepce. I here are on this
land, a commodious two story dwelling-house,
completely finiHied, with ten rooms and a pafTage, «
eight of the room 3 have fire places; a portico in
front, fifty feet in length, and eight wide; a large
paled garden, a well of excellent water in the yard #
also a ham seventy-two feet by twenty-fir,, 3
iheds at the fides and ends, fufficicnt to hold sixty
fceap of black cattle, a well couilrucled (lable, fui- p r
ficient to hold twenty horses ; wich every othwr
building that may he convenient or uleful for a
family; upwards ot three hundred r.ppk: trees
(jull beginning to bear) ot eholen graUed lruit, point
with a number of cherry, pear, quince, and dame- j near
lon trees, upwards ot two thouLuid beari lg jxcacfc of.tn<
trees. About one fourth ot the land m cleared, and City,
under good fence ; ths paflure lands ar i well coun
with red clover and other valuable grass. jhe re- j
maindcr is in woods and generally vvei't timbcre.i. gr'du
The whole ii well watered, having several conrtant ; on th
springs; arid two streams running through dtfF.r- i ar.:.c
ent thereof, on one of them is a small coun- i
try grilt mill, and a saw mill. The purchalcr can ma( v
have immediate poiTefEon, and may be accommo- .
dated with twenty valuable field negroes, with j
horses, black cattle, iheep, hogs, and every
fary farming utensil. Saliibury is iituarcd in ex- !
' cellent neighbourhood, and remarkable healthy, c
is tvVenty-fix miles by mcafurement from Alexan-
1 dria, about twenty miles irom Pdtomack bridge at
. the Little Falls, and not more than twenty-five
from th« citybf VVafbington, and on the p®l\ road
Irom Alexandria to Winchester- A fniall part of
the purchase mone>,will be required in hand; one, nc £
' tw», and three years credit will be given for the Qr ,
remainder. wit
Mr. Zaccheus Collins of Philadelphia will give l)Ce
1 any gentlemen who apply to kim an account oi the
3 situation of thi* plao«. For further particulars ap- g,
ply f the fubferiber on the prfcmifes. Sitt
; SAMUEL LOVE.
| Virginia, Fairfax county *
September 24, 1798. * aw *
.ADVERTISEMENT, J:
Sta
WHEREAS James Cumming tS" Co. late ol ine
the city of Philadelphia, merchants, have bo 1
assigned over all their real, personal and to
mixed, to the iubferibers, for the benefit of all rel
their creditors, who lhall fuhferibe the said aflign wi
ment within fix months from the date hereof. pn
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, t» all jai
who are indebted to the said estate, that they are thi
required to make immediate payment of their rcl
pective accounts, to the Afiignees, at their office..
No. 6», Dock fireet, in failure whereof acftion
will be instituted for the recovery of such debts as _.
are cat discharged accordingly. |
n- John Travis, "1 g,
m J obn W°Min S ton, I Ass nec ,
' » n.iw a 0 7 -♦ — **
,v Cornelius Comegys J 1"
august i-8 mwftiD "
TO BE SOLD, ta
i r I > HE time of an indented Dutch Servant BOY
X who has ten years to serve. He has had the ®
P/ small pox and measles, is a#ive, hearty and strong.
and fit f<?r house work in town or country. For O
further information, esquire ef the printer. _
ajjguAt 4
~ FOR SALK, J
ic, For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub- t
'jP fcribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
IB 195 cafits of nails afiorted
20 bales ef fail canvass, from No. j to 8
he 1 j tierces bottled porter, 6to 14 doz each
London particular ) Marieira W ine*
,n India market ) j c
' TenerifTe do. in hoglheads and pip al
A " Old Port do. in hhds. al
Empty Claret buttles ft
» e ' 6 cal'esol Ginghams, Dimities, MuflineU &c. t l
aflbrted for the Wefl-India tnarket r.
4, 10, and 9 inch cablesand 10 coils of cordage o
"i. Writing fiates, ink Hands and prefles ti
JO purcheons Jamaica rum d
. 1 bale learning twine
Nicilin & Griffith.
)Ut April 'J tuth&f.tf
" s " JBengal Goods, *
CONsrstlSG GF "i
BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS, f
Chintz Coffas Maharazgungy f
Chintz Guzzinas Toojiereys
filiabad Baftas Wrought Muslins
Long Drawers
Coarse Sugars in bags, fit lor the European markets
en ALSO,
Carolina Indigo
Coffee in hoglheads ,
A few pipes of very eld and nery choice Madeira ]
WINF.
For Sale, ©n reasonable terms, by
John Ctaig,
No. 11, Dock-tlrcet. ,
f july 14 » m.wstf
NOTICE.
Bank of North America,
Augujl 2%th, 1798'
r T" I HOSE Perfen> who h:.ve Nstcsot Bills to pay
' JL at this Bank are informed,
That regular Notices will he put under a sealed
ting cover dire&ed to the refpeotiva payer and lodged
' ine in the Poft-Office every Monday until the return
of the citizens.
RICHARD W£LLs h CaJi-ie.\
lati- acg. »9 *l fl ,
,t ~ SOUTHWARK. -
OBober 8, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY
GIVEN, That the Commifllaners of
ale the Diftridt of Southwark have removed
ca . their Hall to the usual place, commonly
known by the name of James Litle's School.
House, in confcquence «f the rapid decline
, of tVie Epidemic Fever, especially in the
' . vicinity thereof.
heir Bjordfr of the Board of Commissioner
Wro. LINNARD, President.
Attest,
'• j William I'enross, Cltvk,/r» ttm.
J Oftthcr 9 ft
■■ **
This Day is.Puhliihed,
A.VD FOR SAL* BY J. FEKNO, ! «£ SN U T-f IK ItT
AN address
To the People of Maryland
ON the origin, prj-jrefs and prel at Sale sf
French aggrcffion, with a flcetch of the intam;nj»
attempts t« degrade the Government of the United
States,and forae reflecliolis on the
in Congrels; written the lafl of April in the pre-
Cent year, by a Member of the House of Represen
tatives. 5 juheiL
~ To be Sold, dt Public Sale,
On ths Premises,
On Tucffay the 23 d day of OSober, 1798, at
half past two o'clock, in the afternoon,
Several very elegant Situations for
SUMMER RETREATS, .jj
Three aftel an half miles froqi tlx* Court house nc
Frankford road, being pari of the fubferiber »"" 1
eflate.
These situations arc confideretl in
point of health, beauty and elegance. equal to any.
, near the city ; commanding a very extehftve view
1 of the Delaware, the Shipping m the harbour, the
City, Hsrrowgate, Frankiord, and several elegant
, country feat?.
Any perfoa defnous of viewing tht
• 1 ground*, will pW* apply to HEN&T HAIKES
on the pieavf-s, or to the J'uffcriber, at Mr. Ricli
ar.let's coffee house, Germai/tfiwo.
" i The terms, which wiil be easy, will bi
I made known at the time < f file.
' Should the weather prove bad on the a
_ ; l>nve mentioned day, the sal; will take place on the
next fair day, at tl.w fiaie hour.
" i W. MACFHERSON.
cSolier 9. dt»;tO
t Pennfytvania Hospital,
9 mo. t, I7jß.
"\T° P'rfon with «n infciSiom dSeafe, can be
" IN admitted into this house ; it is therefore ear
nellly recommeuded to the citizens, not to fend
ie or I ring any such patient to the gate, who is ill
with the pievailiHg fever. Several persons having
e been feot here improperly, is the reason of giving
ie this caution.
3htu?g r FRANCIS HIGG.NS, WJ.
Ten Dollars Reward.
DESERTED fro.n the Guard House in New.
Castle, this morning, Stephen Bowden, a
private Marine, belonging to the Frigate United
State*. He is akou; 36 years of age, five feet ten
ol inches high, fair complexion, lighr hnir, blue eyes,
'C born in England, and by trade a bricklayer. Prisr
id to the sth of June, the date of Us enliUmfirit, he
ill resided in Philadelphia, where it is probable he
n will endeavour to go. Any person who will ap
prehend the said deserter, and fccure him in any
n<- jail within the United States, fhi.ll be entitled to
ira the above, reward.
&!• F. WHAETON, Capt. Marines.
:e, j ' New-Caftle,OA 8.
,n ; TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
a yxESERTED from my Detachment at Borden
xj town this day, a Mariae, by name Gnrgt
Hodman, a Native of Ireland about 1 j years of ape
five feet eight or nine inches high, dark complec
® j Mack eye# well made and
qiartelfoaae, when is liquor is fond of singing—had
, on a blue feamsu's jackett light pantaloons, cot
- ton Stockings, round Hat, and had i.nder his Pan
taloons a pair of Nankeen Breeches.
, Y Whoever apprehends and fends the said Defer
th ter to the Marine Camp, (hall receive the abova
Reward.
For Oflober 11,1798? HENRY A. WILLIAMS,
* S Lt. Marines
- PROCLAMATION.
BY virtue of a precept from John Bi Cox*,
J'.fquire, president of the court of Oyer and
U- Terminer and general goal delivery for the trial of
all cipital and ether offences in the county of
Bucks; end Henry WrNKoor and FaANcis
Murray, judgesof the fame coprt—A court of
Oyer and Terminer, and general goal delivery,
wijl be held at Newtown, m the said county of
Bucks, 011 Monday the jth day of November r.elt.
All those who will profecutc against the prifonera
in the goal of said county, are rcquiied to be then
and there to prosecute against them as fliall be just—.
and all the justices. of the peace, coroners and con
dyles. within the said county, tie required to b«
& c ' tlien and there, in their proper persons, with their
roll*, records, inquiOtions and examinations and
age other their remembrances, to do those ' hings which
to their offices belong, in that behalf to b«
done, &c. DANIBL THOMAS, fheriff.
OA. 4, 1798 3taw
FLOUR FOR SALE
rf By the Subfcriblrs,
- Deliverable at any of the ports os the Dc.'a.
ware—who have also on hand at their stores, a
quantify ef Bar Iron, Pork and Corn—Letters bj;
the post will be attended to.
Levi HoHingswortb £sf Son.
auguA <B. dtf
WILLIAM M'LAWS, '
ltets SADLER & HARNESS MAKER,
HAS liemoved to the Corner of Chefnut
and Twelfth-ftreets, on the Commons,
t . wbrre he will receive and execute the orders of
,cira Ins friends and whoicfale enftomers, with ulual
> attenticui ft expedition during the prevalence of
the present Epidemic, where it lias not made it* •
appearance this season, nor during any of tht
years .
* aueuft is f
FOR SALE,
The Cargo of the Schr. Sincerity
( i Benjamin Monteith Matter, from Laguira,
_ c«Hsi<Ti»'6 or
" 945 Fenegas of Cocoa
, a l ec j 400® rb. of Flora Indigo
II 110 BAles of Cotton
0 4 Packageiof Goat Skins
By killings & Francis.
.. No. Eleventh flreet,
july x. dtf_
" ~ Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
'g Y Searfaukers and Carradarries,
r of the Kcweft and mod approvsdpatterns,entitWl
rs to the drawback, just received,
AN> ro * SALS BY
only Jlex. J. MUhr C*.
loot. No. 64, South Front street.
:line may 18. j
the FOR SALE, by
John Miller, Jun.
j NO. 8, CMtINUT STREET,
100 hogsheads RUxM,
Of high proof and fine flavoar
& wr#RE'MOVAL:
' « «t the Seerc aiy 4f the CenimilTMn
-1 tr\ tor earrytttg into effect the twenty-firft
arti-le as the treaty ef Irientflhip, limits and navi
gation. between HU Catholic Majetty and the U-
Dited States of America, ii, for the present, r«m«v
ed from Mo 54, south Second tlrect, to a large
two (lory hritk houlfc on the right hand, gains;
up the Gerntantown road, nfually called Mailer,'
house
Thole contiirhed are informed that, notwith
"ttanding the of the fever in Philadelphia,
daily attenda' cc has been, and will continue to be
given at the fai l office, until the return of the citi
zens; & that on ih« seventeenth day of November
next, tke terrv of eifhttcn moaths Will ekpire linee
the day 011 wkieh the comtWlßoners aSenibUd
after which period no cofaplaiats cfr applications
can ptfiUy be received by them
, Letter* poll-paid *ill bedaly at
tended to by.
PETER LOHRA, Secretary.
oaober j8,1795. } lot
TAKE CARE OF THE SWINDLER.
WE, the fubferibers think it our duty to~notiiy
the public of the conduit of a man whom wi co
eeive to h« as great a deceiver a* ever we had
knowledge of, and whdfc drift appears to Se, to
cheat a'.id defraud every person Bvcr whom he Can ;
by intrigue get tha advantage- The »eir(tjn wc
areaboat to describe came to tke flat: ot Delaware I
kbout the 15th of lad month, in rh" Hage from the ,
Eaflern thoreof Virginia—brought a wife whom ha
piarri d abeur four week' before, a it p daugliYr
and a negro lad—appeared here by the ni" e of
Henry I'e. n Whirton, repjelenting hi.nf«lf to -e
the great grand-fan of Williair. Penn, thtlirft. pro
prietor of Penn!y.va»i.i | had told, we are cre
dibly inf<'wa db.'ce, in thefowhern Bates, tha> he
was formerly marred to a filter of governor Mit-
tha? hee-vnen many (h»res 1)1 the bank ol
Pennsylvania, a?d rhat h was concerned In three
floret in Phi.'adelph a ; that lie held iu the tight of
h" children, a prop rty in the onefr
t-ga manor. W'arn r Mifflin, one >fthelubfcri
b«rs hereto, 't veiling frum the Eail rn feore of
Virginia,at Snow Hitl met with the aforciiii per
son. who introduced hitnlclf a 6 Henry 'enn A'hai
ton of Vhiladelphia, mentioning that he had been
in Virginia and the Carcli'as, rcjiearfrng to him
divers r. fpc&ablc characters in the diflcrent ftatea,
which thi» fubferiber new ; and jult as be wasa
hout to da't from the public house at Snow Hill,-
said Wharton requeftcd the loan of some monej
till h» got into th# neigKbonrhood of Dover, when
he intended to iiop tilt he. fhiu'.d write up for his
son to bring carriages to tike fhenvinto I-aneafTer,
county, in coufcquenCe of the Rver in I hiladelt bia
when he f,ot d>'liars. On his arfiva 1 «• t)over,
}>e wrote t» Daniel Mifflin, one Of the fabferibers
hereto,requt-fting him expeditioufly to fend carri
tgestra taketh m to his houfe,vabcut J miles d'f
unt, which wai done j and he appeired'to conduit
so r.ell, as to be refpeisled by the neighbours, hav
lug lately married the rilict *t colonel Curl, of
Hampton, in Virginia.
Notwitliflanding his apparent genteel carriage,
there were some things tha; exu'ed suspicion. W.
Mifflin fetting'off a few days after for Philadelphia
to attend the yearly meeting of Friends, where it
was natural to conclude enquiry would he made
refpeAing this in some fort fufpe&ed perf.m, he ac
cordingly started the day after, under pretence of
going to Do*' nii g's town, in Pennl'ylvania, after
Carriages himleU, to rake-his v. ifc and lieri-daughter
up to Lancaller, purposing to return in 6 days
fiicbirj was made in rhilade'phia.but no such per
lon was k.lowr there j this circumOance was kept
from he Wife Mil the time appointed for his re
(urn had e!apfi:d, when it was opened to her; the
feantl niearn to get to his trunk, and found among
some old piperl, a le'tihcate signed. with the names
of Warner Mifflin, Tl«oma« Mifflin, William Mil
ler, and Jonathan Mifflin, cer'ifying that he v«a« a
merebercf the Krknds society ; tha' he wa« about
to travel ir to feveraT fi'utl eru fetiTementso! Prim
&c. Wc have very c ear informati«r, that wh.r
in the fettlemcnts where thty .iv'ed fouthvard N
pretended that he was a member; but very d ffet
ens wh,u r«*otc-'."-«n them. Mary rcum
ft.ince have turned finee, to prove lira a gran ,
iuipoder, and a vile rafcsl, and ■it *rjrthy of
place in the world; for (i >ce his departure, m.tn ,
ix.ertion* hav teen ni.de to find out who he r.-a
|y n, and h s place of ah de. Some rap rs left be
h:ne in thetru' k, afforded a clh« where 1 y we hav
come at the all know edge cfhim, from the ti.n.
01 his coaiii-i; into thi. countiy H came fro e
Ireland into the neighbourhood of Ta rcaDer.whet
ahoat 16 years of ag ; his real name is HugV
Wofkmaa, and has at thi- tim' a wife and feu
children, witliin about 5 miles of l.ancafler, in the
anolt abjeit poverty, who have been fren very late
ly hy Jon than Hunn, one «l the fubferi ers here
to.wlvi went there is ftareh of him, and who wis
there informed that h« marri'd a wifs about four
years ago'in North Carolina, broath' her to Phil >
re'phia, aid loon afttr took all her money, u»d l«ft
her to suss. r.
The wife he married in Hampton of Virgiria, is
'a woman of excellent breeding, whom he has also
robbed of all he could get. There was conftdera
hleof money put into his hands by Thamas Mar- I
tin, a lawyer of lno\¥ Hill, to fend to a client in
Vhiladelphia, and some by George Rof<, also of
{jii place. He bought a horse of U Mifflin and
paid net a farthing, and borrowed a laddie ef J.
i vf; r. n, and bridle of George Truett, of Camden.
The vallainous (windier that we are about to
point out to the public, is aiout 5 feet 8 inches
high, of a rudy complewon, corpulent, about 45*
pears of age, somewhat grey; h* can speak the Ger.
aian language; has lo't one of his fore teeth We
think this ought to be published all over the Unite 1
Siates, for the good of its inhabitants, as all are in
danger from the ravages of such swindlers, and all
j*iat<rs art detired to puhlifh tb dame.
WARNEK MIFFLIN,
DANIEL MIFFLIN,
JONATHAN HUNN.
Caasden. loth mo. 4 h, 1798.
~ TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
DESERTED last night, a second time, from
th» Marine Camp, David Luper, a fife-.
He had when he went away, a plain I lue jaekit and
♦eft.light Vtnovera!ls,around hat which had be< n
bound with yeliow, and which he had ripped off
in hisfitft desertion, and a pair of new (hoes, he i'
a Carpenter by trade, has grey eyes, far.dy bdr
Lliow complexion and a nitch in his upper lip.
His back is ft ill fore from a flogging he got a few
4ay» ago. He may bs difcovcred by hit fifeing,
as he plays extremely welt.
W. W. BURROWS Major Com. of the
Marine Ccrps.
Ofloher iy.
A VVoman from England
would wish to engage with a lady, in the capacity
ef Lai 'y's-maid, or ia the flat ion of a House keeper
So » gentefl family, or to a fir>glc gt a'leman. A
ttood reeommer.dation cart ha procurred from fame
of the moil families in this city. For
particulars enquire at thi printing ofEce as John
W FSnno.
OfloV.tr 19. *4>
gj- ihe Subicribers have remov
ed for the preltut from Penn-ftreet to Eleveqth
ftreet* betv-jeo Filbrrt and High-streets.
Willing: £5" Francis.
tngaft V ft * w
gjp X.he Health Office is kept open uijrht and
day, at the City Hall, where every neceflary
convenience is prnc>ired> for tcntoving the Cck
aad barring the daad
WILLTAM ALLEN.
Health o£i(e, September 29.
iromgit 3Dtoice&
LONDON, August 15.
The celebratt d general Bowles, the Creek
chief, who visited thil country about 7 years
ago, 11 arrived, and is at his former lodgings
in the AdeTplii. He had I een under an ar
red forfereral years hy the Spaniards, but
contrived to get on board ftrft a fraall veflel
which, on its way to England, fell in with
the Ilia, by which he was brought fafe over.
He is in a ba.J date of health, and (aid by
the faculty to l>e confuniptive.
Should Bu'n aparte even be able to reach
Alexandria withobt being overtaken by ad
miral NeljTon, there is every reason to
hope, ftor>)..thc 11 atJire and construction of
the harbeart* that hk fleet canat t long re
main iirit iVich TaFety, and that it will ulti
mately fa 1 into our hands. The following
description of the harbour is given by a gen
tleman who has often visited that place :
" Alexandria in hat a Itrange and
strong appearance 011 a firft arrival, the
; bnlldii gh looking a* new stone in a fortified
%ay 4 much alike, and all of that colour.
'I he ponderous ruins of the old city arc at
one end, an*} a very cxienfive castle at the
other 1 the top of Pompey'i pillar is seen
between-each The fa.ndy fliore being le
v 1 with the sea; you fee nothing of the
beach till almcit in the harbour, which is
>cry precarious, being little flickered an<d
very rocky, the bottom so much so as to
make it ntceflary to utrder-run eveiy cable,
and to moor opposite caitle with four,
Iwo a-lf*ad, two,a-ftern, lafed to others as
far as yaur anyhow are cirried, and a buoy
los some fort to each la/hitig. Thus every
cable crofting each pther, form quite a net,
and would employ one (hip's company twp
days at lead to anchor { but it is a rule to
fend from the fliips in harbour as many met?
as can be spared to affi't the »ess 1 coming
in. It is fc> exposed, and thers is so much
[well sometimes, as to cause great confuljon
*i;4 eii3refs, lb ps to itrike lowef yards
and top mails, and if one anchor draws home,
there tye often ten or morej as they hang
on each other and the only chance you
have to lave a (hip and qavgo is to cut and
run out torfta. No b ;Sts*can come off or ,;
land at this time, nor wjlithe Turks try, as
they yyilh to fee your Qiip lolt, in hopes of
plunder. ■■ There is very little provili an to be
had of any kind ; water is so scarce JOU are
obliged to buy it at a dear rate, and the
Turks, if you are not mindful, will put in
(a't Water to i icreafethe profits. The Al-,
exandrians are efteemcd the mod thieving
set, and'the harbour as bad as any in the
Mediterranean, though there are a number
of (hips of different nations which trade
there."
August 19. j
A radiated military telrgraph, invented
by the Rev IVlr. Gamble, is to be affixed
this day on tl»e horse guards, to convey in
telligence to and from Windsor and Oat
'snds, the feat, of bis royal.highness. the
01 ke or Tent.
The remainder of the ctriofities from Maltj
were brought up tot wn on Saturday evening
rom Portsmouth ; they ennfift of a large defcrt
table, richly ornamented with emblematical de
vices. of the place from whence taken and a
beautiful eight barted row galley of silver, gilt
*>it figures to represent rowers, with every ap
aratus belonging to the vefiel; it is considered
as a maftur piece of workmanship.
A piece of fnathinery to opperate by means
•f a fleam, it conftrmfteel near the Veternary
oilr ; »e, %■ hMi will (lamp two hundred horse
■lioes in an hour.
Some years ago the Earl of Bristol relieved
Ihe father.of the present keener of theCallleof
•Ulan, from pecuniary embarralTment, by ad
vancing him a liimof 5001, and the son now
iratehilly repays his lordship's bent»olence by
the m»ft humane attention to the noble prifop
•r.
The C 'untefi Julia de Rochechouart, who
went to France not long finee, is returned to
England. The ohjeifl of her journey was to
obiain for herfelf and fettlcment from
her hnfband, who had lately ohtvnej a divorce
according to the matrimonial laws of France,
and married hit servant maid ; which objciil
*•« underAand he has accomplished.
Great civilities-continue to pass between
the English and Spanilh Admiralr, by means
of flags of truce, which only tends to prove
that the Spaniard* would be glad to make
peace with this country, if they could (hake
of their French connection. But we fear
it is impofiible.
Extract as a letter from Bombay :
" Th«: late i'uniation of the Tappy, as
may rrgu'arly be fupp fed, has occupied a
place in molt of the letters from Sarat. By
one who would not advance an aflertion light
ly, the flood said to have risen two feet tigh
r than the memorable frclhets in the 1787;
another gmtleman parted in a boat over the
outward wall, between the Ornegan and
Wariaw gates, wheT the foliation in the
me n while is ctfnfeff d to bi naturally low;
besides the wrecks of tillages, which were
carried down by the torrent, there were ob
frrved five tygers, two elephants, buffaloes,
and other cattle in abundance. It is remark
able also that of the fev ral boats which had
ju(t returned from tranfpo ting cotton to
ihia placV, there was not one which arrived
with any considerable damage."
Six thouiand Monk?, expelled from
Rome, are said to live by felling eggs in
Sardinia. The word filling is probably a
tpiilakt for eating.
Sir John Dinely, a newly elected poor
Knight of IVindfor, on his arrival late on Sa
m-day to take possession of his apartments,
threw the whole Caltle into confulion. The
Dean, who had been fsft afleyj, popped his
head out of the window, and having fatisfied
himfclf that it was not a fummns from the
French to furrenrier, asked, in an imperious
tone, who dare diiturb the biffeop of N -r
---wichand Dean of Windsor at that unfeafon
rsble hoor .' to which the poor night replied,
he would be *ery glad to exchange plact-s
with hits..
i t :r
! REVIEW OF THE LAST SE&Sid ;
OF PARLIAMENT.
From a late English paper—C included.
. „ There are two other leading articles in
the ways and means of the yea , which hive
j compenftted for by defalcation in the pro
duce of the new assessment, and which each
t of th<;m tend to give to Europe and to the
j world, aju t and proud imprtffion of the
j real chara&cr and lituation of the country.
At the eery moment of railing, within the
r yearj in the unexampled mode which we
have dated a fnm of'betwec* four and five
j millions, by acompnlfory taw, the Voluntary
zeal and liberality of individuals has already
5 added a sum of certainly above a million and
j- .a hilf, and probably approaching to two
millions ftcrliog.
As a lolid pecuniary resource, this free
r will offering of a grateful a-d contented
' People, may be faftly weighed in the ba
lance againll a year's plunder oftherevo!u
---j tion, ry armies of France- But if it is va
f luable in its amount, how much more so ft
j it in iV principle ? How much more so is it,
as a pledge of affection to the fotereign, and
" the conltitution ; of Zeal tor the country ;
of confidence in the government ; and of a
determination to ttlake private facri
ftce in support of the national interest ? Ne-
ver did any hdtioit fp;ak its geiiuinc fenli
s mems in a language more likely to confound
the hopes tjf those enemies who threaten to
3 attack its security from abroad, oi* a tempt
to disturb its tranquility at hom.\
1 ht other article to which we is
g the temporary tax laid upon our commerce
f for the support of the war, with the general
and zealous concurrence cf all defcrjptioi.s
of merchants. A tai of this defcriptipn,
j founded o:i the immenfc increase of our e>-
} ports and imports during the war, on' our '
? undilttirbed possession of the principal for
r reign market?, and on, the complete naval
protcdtion afforded to this txteaLive trade,
fpesksat once the spirit and good sense of
our merchants, our unexampled Hate of com- !
mercial prosperity in the midst of an ardu
out eonteft, and the unparalleled vigilance
a .id aftivity of our maritime deftnee.
Thefe meafuves have had the effedt of
" r 11 ewing at opce tlfe power, the resources, !
s and the determination of the country, Th'ey
have naturally prevented, under all the crit
e ical scenes which have been pafGng. any de-
preflion of jhe public fu. ds; and they
e have enabled government (at the very time
when the means of borrowing were laid to
be exhaufled) to complete the supplies by a
r loan of fifteen millions on terms the most
* favourable to the public which have ever
r been obtained. *
The attention of parliament has not, howe
ver, been confined only to the new mode of
fairing the fupplie< for a tingle year. The plan
for the sale of the land tax, and for applying
the>produce towards the reduaion of the nation- i
j al debt, though vehemenily oppoi'ed by a flfw j
. persons attached to their own peculiar opinions, I
1m bsen clearly proved to he attended with no i
- possible inconvenience to the public, or to inJi- i
• viduals ; and its progredive eperition (besides j
e fumilhing a conliderable direct jjecuniarv ad-1
«rtrrntrpTTOfn:) BSSTs trie mo« tiirrrt ten
a dencv to aid and flrengthen tbe operation of
the linking fund i to diininilh ( and as we fruit f
t rapidly the amount of funded debt in the mar- I
ket ; and to facilitate future loans, and furni/h ;
a additional and increasing means of exertion, in
t the event of the continuance of the war.,
While we have thus effectually provided the
j pec-niaj-y means of maintaining the eonteft,
the military efforts, and inl'.erVnt spirit of the
# nation have n>jt been less conspicuous in
r ing to meet and repel every poffihle enterprise
, of the enemy It cannot in.iced be doubted,
that even before ourincreafed prepirations, any
| attempt at an invasion of this illand mud final
f ly have terminated In ruin and confufion to those
who undertook it. But conlideting the charac
, ter »f our enemy, cirelefs of the lives of its
r own fubjedls j iuveteiate in its hatred of this
. country, and maddened at the vie* of our pros
perity ,- intoxicated with its futcefs on the con
j tinent, incapable of quiet, and unable to mais
j tain at home, its vidlorious armies. There was
, a period when this wild and desperate project,
j was not unlikely to be I t would not
mattered to them, if, directing their e*-
" t pedition againtt differeuP points, three-fourths
of it had been intercepted'and destroyed on the
palTage, ptovided there had been a chance that
) the remainder could effeift alanding, before its
llrength (then, not prepared as at present) could
be fufficiently colleiled to overpower tliem. —
Perhaps too, the falfe and impudent exaggera
! tionsof the few desperate incendiaries who with
: to introduce French principle* among ua, might
r have really deluded them into the hope (which
they at least profeffed to entertain ) of finding
auxiiliaries and confederates in the bosom of this
country. But even these vain and ill
lonnded as they were, exist no longer. '
s The impotent malice of the difaffe&ed
i has beeu exposed and detefteO. The found
r part of the community is completely on its
- guard. Almott ev-ry man who has pro
. perty, is armed to defend it ; and the fidel
; ity and loyalty of the great mass of the na
? tion (untainted by all the pernicious doc
-1 trines so induftrioully propagated) is as ma
; nifeft as their courage- When the threat
I of invasion was firft ostentatiously announc
- ed, the army of England formed, the con
. queror of Italy appointed ,his commander,
, and his 4ivifions begun to be aflcmbltd on
- the extensive line of the coast opposite to
1 this country, from Br ft to the Texel, the
a whole armed force of every description (ex
i eluding the supplemental militia and pi ovi
fional cavalry, neither of which were then
i embodied) hardh- exceeded one hundred
3 thousand w/en : and a large proportion of
» this force was raised only for a local defence
of particular diftri&s. The additional force
which has cither been raised, or trained and
r embodied,'firice that period, has augmen:ed
. our means of defence by at leatt 150,000
;, men—above half of them voluntarily ee.roll
: ed, and fnpported without expense to the
s public, and almost all of them applicable to
1 service in any part an attack is likely
e to be made.
s It is not, however, so much from the ae
. tual amount of our armed force, or the ex
. tent of our preparation, however treat and
, unexampled, that we are ta calculate our
, strength and fecuritjr. The military spirit
Ule public zeal, the jtrft national pride, and
tLfe n.cuty cud well grounded va»fidence
wliich pervade and animate all clafles of so
ciety } these are what really cotiftitute bur
defence; and in the. midst of the degrada
tion and inifeiy of so large a part of Enrope,
bi.ve taught oar prefimptuoua enemy, that
there is at lead still one nation, yv'.ich can
neither be feductd bv their intrigufcs, nor in
timidated by their menaces, uor subdued by
their power.
In Ireland, the at the period to
which we have referred was indeed alarming;
and the critis which ba9 linee taken place
hat been anxious and awful. But many as
have been the cal-j ritics which have been
brought on that country, and deeply as they
mull be regretted, this severe trial has per
haps proved its fafety and deliverance. The
,-ttat ktagdo®, fq far behind us in
m infers, civilization, and indultry, nutwitff
ftanding iis rapid improvement during the
last twenty years; thtr volatile character of
its inhabitants; together 'With the circum
(tance of there being so few refidcot propri
etors, and any ofi that intermediate
order which forms the link and connexion
between ti:e higher and lower clafles of so
ciety: ail tend to .It them for the reception
of those jacobine principles which foreign
em'ftaries and domellic traitors have long
been labouring to infufe. These arts had
been too fuccefsful. The associations of
Ur.ited Irilhtnen, formed on French princi
ples, known jto be in dired convfpondence
with the enemy, placed under military direc
tion, and sworn to the extirpation of all
that was rcfpe&able in the country, was
kiiown to be spread through every province
i» Ireland, and in maoy parts to be rapidly
iticrcafing, They held out no particular or
fpecific grievance; they aimed at no limited
reform of any real or pretended abuse ; but
at an ablolute. separation ftom Great Bri
i tain; at the plunder anH coi.fifcatian of all
property; the Jefliuction ef the whole
frame of government, and the ere&ion of j
a jacobin republic Ufder the aufpecies of
j Franc*. A4d they *re eagerly waiting
for ihe moment when the co-operation of
French force, might enable them to make,
a great and concerted .effort for the execu
tion of their design. Happily before such
j a co-operation was attempted, unexpesftcd
discoveries led to the seizure of fume of their
principal leaders, and hastened the explosion
of the plot. The struggle has indeed been
severe; and, decisive as are the fuccelfes
which have been -obtained against the prin
,cip 1 force which has appeared, we can
scarcely yet pronounce "that it has finally
terminated*. But me fee enough to consider
it as a circumstance of the firft importance
to the empire, that the crisis was not delay
ed; and the events by which it has been at
tended, give us grounds of courage and con
fidence, which had never been afforded to us
before.
In addition to all this, the prompt and
efficacious aljiftasfce from Britain; and the
' alacrity, zeal, and ardour with which the
m'litia and fencihles of this kingdom flew
j to the defence of their fellow fubjecls in
j Ireland, forms an sera in the hiftorv of this
Country, from which >i/e may conlider the
I strength and security of the British empire
: as augmented beyond calculation. And we
! cannot help indulging the hope, that this
(ingle circumstance is capable of awakening
sentiments in both countries, which, when
the present ferment is subsided, will unite
them more and more in the closest ties of
affectionate connexion.
We have hitherto contemplated what has
passed in t>oth kingdoms, with reference on
ly to our domestic exertions. To complete
the pidttire, we (hould turn for a moment to
our naval operations during the fame period.
In the midst of the menaces and preparations
of invalion, we have fesn all the principal
ports of France, Spain, and Holland,
Submitting at the fame time to be blocked
up for months by our fleets, without daring
in any instance to oppose them. Instead of
being at liberty to detach an offenfive expe
dition, they have been unable to convey
Ihips or stores from one part of tkeir coalt
to another. Scarce a friga'c or privateer has
ftolenfromapy of their harbours, which has
not fallen into <Mr hands One of the chief
points fcletfcedfor the colle&ion of (heir in
vading force, has itfelf been the. objeft of
our fuccefstul attack ; and their prepara
tions, through the whole line of adjacent
coalt, have been, in consequence of it dif
candnutd. Renouncing their boasted eßter
prize of invasion fiom the coasts of the chan.
nel, they have turned their great effort to
the MeJitteranean. and in that remote quar
ter have fried out a mysterious expedition,
which they Hulled would at lead have scope
to aft without molettation from our navy.
The issue as well as the obje& of this enter
pnze, is yet uncertaiji; but we fee them al
ready trembling for the event They know,
that with a secrecy, promp.itude and ener
gy never exceeded, at the very moment when
they thought themftlvcs molt secure in that
quart;,-, and were menacing the British and
lrith costts, a squadron suddenly dispatched
from Ireland itfelf, has enabled Lord St.
Vincent to fend a force to the Mediteiane
an, probably fufficient to disappoint this
great and boafled effort* and perhaps to add
another brilliant trophy to the long faries
of naval which have raised the ma
ritime chara&tr of this country to its pre
terit proud preeminence. Purlucd and turi
prised in the; quarter whete they least ex
pected it, the blockade of all the other ports
has not withstanding been continued without
ißtermifiio», and a new squadron is on the>
C °if- v ° f - Ircland > to :ncrt any force
which might, by any accidental circum
' ft ail « h be enabled to elude the vigilance of
our fleets in the the occao or the
Midiicrauean.
perlon in the neighbour
[ noodof Germantown desirous of efl" e ai.u, Inform
i W<& N m, r,° P nr,( North
writ torner of Ninth and Market flrects m»v
1 rr in? an tntiuiry atthc '
4 3 i.*W
PORTSMOUTH, Oct. 13.
NAVAL ARCHITECTURE:
MVITPD STATES. .
The Editor of the Oracle feizcs tHe pre
sent moment to jnform his patrons and the
public, that on 1 hurfday [aft, at a few mo
ment* pad 1. p. m. a most beautiful copper
bottomed twenty gun ship, called the Ports
mouth, and built Tor the feivice of the United
States, was launched from the Continental
Navy Yard, Langdon's island. The launch
was conduced on the belt principles of the
complete Slip-builder, and the (hip deposit
, ed in her future native element not only
wiil» ftfety, but also with that peculiar
grace, w'.iich commands the distinguished
applause of the right worthy tar. John
Adams, efqr. of the Revenue Cutter, bade
her welcome to old ocean by a federal did
charge of'fixteen guns; John Wardrobe,
efqr. of the private armed Ihtp Cato return
ed the salute; and an immense concourse of
attendant citizens manifefted their pleasure
by repeated huzzas.
The Portfmauth is to be commanded bf 1
Daniel M'Neil, efqr. of Boston. an expe
rienced and valuable officer, w„o has done
honour to himfelf in every farmer flation;
and, whose naut.cal knowledge and various
talents are the surest pledges of not difap.
pomnng the public confidence. Captain
Richard T.bbrts, of ,hi, town, is appointed
firft lieutenant; capt. Georg, Turner, jun.
second lieutenant; and capt. Robert Oram
sailing-master; thyee excellent officers, who
cannot fail of refle&i K g credit upon their
feycral appointments. The keel of the above
Ihip was laid on the 4th day of July last
past, a happy presage of supporting that
; independence on ocean, which her courftry
| has maintained by land. She has been com
-1 plelely buiit, coppered, and launched in the
(hort period of eighty five working days.
The dimensions of the Pwtfmouth are 93
feet keel, 31 feet beam,- and (he is pierced
for 20 guns, but probably will mount 24,
and me as a 1 ght frigate, ot {loop of war.
The Portlmouth was built cf the bed
seasoned timber, under the dire&ion of col.
James Hacket, United States' Naval Di
reiftor, and beneath the fnperintendance of
col. Thomas Thompson, age;.t of supplies,
&c. These two gentlemen have repe.tedly
diftinguified themselves for the goodness
of the materials, excellence of work, and
promptnefa of execution. The able ftiip
wrights of New-Hampshire, guided by their
fkiltul hands, leara the true enthusiasm of
labour, and refled the highest honour upon
themselves, as ever faithful and true.
It merits an additioaal record, that within
thr confined ipace of fourteen months, a fix
and thirty gun frigate for the Dey of Al
giers; an elegant Revenue Cutter ®f 16
gnns ; and the beautiful (hip Portsmouth of
20 guns, all been laid at the keel, and
finifhed for the water in the fame yard.
Capkau M'Neil expels tor fit his (hip for
lea by the 1 It of November.
It is to be hoped that the jolly tars of
PortfmoHth, and the hardy marines of our
country t«wns ; will volnnt-er their fefvices
on board, and that monsieur Talleyrand will
honour captain M'Neil's bills at the fight of
his guns, and thus pay a pait of the debt
which the terrible republic owes, to :mi in
jured, an inlulted, and too loug a patient
ajtd forbearing country.
SPIRIT OF SHIP.BUILDING.
On Monday next, Jacob Sheafe, efqr, as
public agent, and col. Hacket ai naval di
rector, unitedly raise in the fame navy yard
a fix and thirty gun frigate, to be complete
ly finifhed of Irvc oak. And such is the
contemplated fpiritof enterprize and energy,
of indaftry and exertion, that said frigate is
tt> be launched in 230 working days. When
every circumltance is maturely considered
European uavy yards exhibit not more ex
pedition in build ng; and the fupcriovity of
our Work, if confeft'ed by all judges, on both
(idea of the Atlantic.
THS TWO FORTY FOUR GUN SHIPS.
.. A gentleman of the firft refpectab.'lity and
information has aflured the editor of this
paper, that the two (orty-fuur (hips,
building at New. Fork aad Norfolk, are
progiefiing with the greatett fxped tion,
and that bo'h of them will (hortly join their
niaritime consorts, who are supporting the
honour of the American flag, and protecting
the commerce of an nnjultly intuited, and
inhumanly plundered neutral, independent
nation. A writer in the London Gazette
makes the following handfomc remark on
our nfing navy. «« It i., f ays he, fully ade
quate to scourge the crippled marine of
r ranee, which hovers on their coasts."
Take Notice,
1 HAT I the fubfcril.tr, applied to the court o>
bnTTA A' thu cnunty of Nort),umber
and. at August term, i 7 98, for the benefit of the
t i le coramon ;*' lth PeaufyKania, n,ad ft
tor the debtor to deliver up all his i>c<ipt*t» real
or petfcn,'. for the use of hi, creditor^*
V B< i! v! J COJ " Wa " P leifed ,0 a P?or)r tho
fouith. Monday m. next, to hear me »u;8
my creditor, at the court of Conuron PleaVe, hclj
at Sunharj, and to g.ve notice of the f am . t>r
three week, in Mr. Brown's ami Mr. Feni,»j na
per», and m the Northumberland Gazette. The,!.
o U nan u <i each of * ou ar « my creditors,
are requefteito attend at said court, and appoint
truJtees to receive the property, and appk the
bezzle' tl'dfh "* ''if® " en " u S h > »f not em
bezzle , to discharge all my jull dibts.
o._, , „ ALEX'r LEWIS.
S-rt. 1708 lawl .
Pointing WORK,
Of Every Kind,
EXECUTED AT THE SHORTEST
NOTICE,
y.t the Office of tbe Gazette of the
if '"rED States,
And forwarded agreeably to direc
tion, any where ia th<j vicinity of
the city. J
Jri©ytljis S>ap'S £oail. {
m Ge
NEW-YO RK, Oaobcr 20. «j e
It is dated in an Englilh paper, as a re- att
port, that if Buonaparte should land in E- Ai
eypt, a Ruffian army will march againd Tll
him. It certainly is so far pro- noi
bable, that the views of the French upoa Co
Ejrypt, and their plan, either of revolution Pu
or of aggrandizement in the East, will be rea
opposed by Raffia, It is impassible that dx>
the gigantic pretensions of France Ihould 13a
be viewed by the Ruffian government with M
indifference, and the opposition of this pow
er would in caie of any attempt on Egypt or
the Porte.be the grcau ft obstacle to her success
Mercy has at length triumphed, and Ire
land may now be considered as saved to the
crown of Great Britain It would be un
■uft not to add, this ha. been done by the
wife and found policv of the meafuras re
cently adopted refpeding that unhappy
country.
BOSTON. O&eber »7-
Late and Pleasing News !
<1
#3= Last night arrived here the (hip Packet,
cast Trott, in 12 davs from Liverpool—by the
ittemi.'m of ihe captain and passengers, we have
received papers to Sept n, (■very late.J From or
them it will be seen that the pdjr devils of lai
Ercnchmen who have landed in Ireland, hive th
pet the fate they merited; and that the rrifli m- ; n
forre&ioa is, as it ought to he in the present fit- w
nation of the world, fupprefll-d. Or Buona- j (
part',.we have taken* paragraph from the Cou-
rier of Sept 11.
Official Accounts. ■ et
Xloti 0/ n letter from lieutenant-general Lite to
ca pi Taylor, private secretary to Us excellency
she lord lieutenant, dated Camp > near aatU
ntmvtk, t>rf>t 8, a 798-9 8 -
" SrK ' • • e .y.
•• J,have the honor to acquaint you, tor tne e(
;n/orm-tion of the lord lieutenant, that finding
upon my arrivllat Ballagliy, that the Frenth
jinny hail passed that pi»ce from Caftlebar, I im
mediately followed them to watch their motions. 2 '
Lieutetiaht-colonel Crawford, who commanded tl
my advanced corps, competed of detachments a
of Hompelch's and the firft fencibie cavalry, by e i
great vigilence and aflivity, hung so close upon t |
their rear, that they could net escape from me
although they drove the country, and carried
with them all thp horses. .
« After four days and bights most fevcre
marching, my c*lumn confiding of Carabineers
' detachments of the »,id light dragoons, the ill g
fencibie light dragoons, and the Roxburgh fen- 1 0
cible dragoons, under the commaod of col. fir j £
Thomas Chapman, lieutenant colonel Maxwell £
Earl of Rf den, and capt Kerr, the 3d battal
lion' f light infantry, the Armagh,, and part of
the Kerry Militia, the Reay, Northampton, and 1
Prince of Wales's fencibje regiments of infan- a
try, under the command of lieute»ant-colopel ;
Innes, of the 64th 'regiment, lord Viscount |
Gasford, Earl of Glatidore, major Rofs, lieu-
tenant-colonel Bulkley, and lieutenant-colonel j £
Marartnev, arrived at Cloone, about 7 o'clock
this morning, wl.c.
to follow the enemy on tlie fame line, whillt his t
excellency mived by the lower road, to inter- c
cept them, I advanced, having previously di- ' 1
tached the Monaghan light company, mounted I ;
behind dragoons, to harrafs their rear. I ,
" Lieutenant-colonel Crawford, on enming 1
up with the French rear guard, summoned them j .
to surrender ; but as they did not attend-to his ; .
summons, he attacked them, upon which up- j 1
wards cf soo French infantry threw down their I
arms, under the idea that the reft or the corps |
would do the fame thing ; capt Packenham, It |
ge:i. of -ordnance, and maj gen Cradock rode
up to tliem. The enemy, hawever, infiantly
commenced a fire of cannon and mufquetry,
which \younded gen Cradock -, upon which 1
ordered up the 3d Battalion of light infantry,
under It. col. '.nnes, and commenced the attack
upon the enemy's pofiti»n. Tl>e aftion lafied
upwards of half an hour, when the remainder
of the column making its appearance, the
French fur rendered at diferetlo*. The rebels,
who fled in ail directions fuffered fevcrely."
GENERAL ORDERS.
Headquarters, near St. 'JabiJltniin, Sept. 9.
Lord Cornwalli* cannot too much so
plaud the zeal and spirit which has been
manifelled by the army, from the commence
ment'of the operations against the invading
enemy, under the surrender of the French
forces.
The perfeverasce with which the sewers
supported the extraordinary marchts which
were necessary to stop the progress of the
very attive enemy, does them the greatest
credit ; and lord Cornwallis heartily con
gratulates them on the happy issue of their
meritorious exet'ions.
The corps of yeomanry, in the whole
country through which the army has passed,
have rendered the' greatest services, and are
peculiarly entitled to the acknowledgments
of lieutenant, from their not having
tarnished that courage and loyalty which
they difpiayed in the cause of their king
and country, by any ads of wanton cruelty
towards the.r deluded fellow-fubje&s.
Ordnance, Arms, and Ammunition taken,
3 Light I*' ench 4-pouuders.
5 ditto ammunition waggonsj nearly full
- f>(made up ammunition,
t ditto tumbril ; 700 Hand of arms, with
belts anJ pouches ; with a great number of
pikes.
Officer wounded—Lieut. Stephens of the
Carbineers.
Return of tie French army taken prisoners at
the battle of Bal/inamuct, Sept. 8, 1798.
Generals and other officers, 56
Non conimiffioned officers k soldiers 748
Horses, about 200
NB. Ninety;fix rebels taken, three of
-tlifm called general officers hy the names of
Roach, Blake, and Tetling.
The enemy, in their retreat before the
troops under my command, were compelled
to abandon 9 pieces of cannon, which they
had taken in the Former afliens with his
m*jefty's forces. ,G. LAKE, Lt. Gen
Namet of the principal oficeri of the French r ~
force taken at the battle of Ballinamuck,
September 8, 2798. _
Humbert, General en Chief—Sarazin,
General de Divifton—Fontaine, General
de Brigade, Faferure, Chef de Brigade,
attache a l'Etat Maj <r. Dufour, do. do. do.
Autty, Chef de Battalion, Demanche, do.
Tttffaint, do. Babin do. Siberman, do. Me
non, Commiffaire Ordonmateur, Brillier,
Commiffaire de Guerre, 1 hibault, Payeur,
Puton, Aid de Camp, Framair, do. Mo- v£
reau, Capitaine, Wagueftre General, Ar-
douin, Chef de Brigade, Serve, Chef de
Batallion, Hais, do. Mouchard, do. Brand, j
Maffouet, Officers fe Sante. »
RECAPfTUt'ATION.
Sous Officers 9^
Grenadiers 7^
Fuiilliers 440
Carbiniers . 3 3
Chasseurs 60 re
Cannoniets 41 P'
bl
. >Total. 748 f
Officers ' 96
rc
Certifie par le Chef de Brigade.
P. ARDOUIN. fe
it]
Of Buanaparte's Secret Expedition.
Leghorn,
Letters received here to day from Naples,
bring advice that the Englilh fleet which '
failed to Alexandria without meeting with
the French fleet, has returned to Syracuse, °
in Sicily, and taken in freffi
which it failed again 'for the coast of Africa. P
It is now confidently asserted, that the troops* c
of Gen'. Buonaparte Srie landed, part at A- P
lexandria in E and part at Alexawdri-
in Syria. '■ f
NEVVBURYPORT, Oaober iz.
7HE LAUNCH. >
This day at one, our ['
beautiful patriotic (hip, majefticslly descend- 1
ed from her native land to the' einbrace of a
the watery god, without the lead accideirf. c
She is called the Merrimack, will mount r
20 nineb artd 8 fixes, is finely coppered, and
the bell judges fay she would not fuffer by
a comparison with the veffel of her fixe '
ever built. Captain William Hacket, '
1 the copftruftor and fuperintendant, and '
j Major Cioss, the contraftor, are entitled
to all the merit which can be attached to 1
. their profeffion.
s Her head is a group cempofed of an Ea- J
t gle perched upon the globe, supported on
■ ' one fide by an elegant figure representing 1
1 : Commerce, and on the other by a beauti
ful female strikingly emblamatical of Jus- '
p tice, and in front is borne the arms of the
i United States. The design is excellent-^
- and the execution does honoihvto the artist,
1 , Mr. Dearing. of Portsmouth.
l i A vail concourse of people attended, to '
" ! be witnesses of the interesting fceue. 'A 1
: federal salute from,-the artillery peices aii
j nounced to dtttanrffiiendj tW happy issue of
s the launch As Ihe went joy advanced up
- on the anxiety which at firtt "was depicted
-. upon almoff every countenance, and ended
! on the the joyful occasion.
j The keel of this flip Was laid on the 9th
is; July, since which there have been 74 work
)-1 ing days; and I da)-e presume to fay that
ir from the spirit which has attended the bufi
" ness, (he will be ready for sea i* 14 days, as
' numbers of the hardy foustof Neptune'ftand
, e ready to f nlilt usder her worthy commander,
and who have been long waiting for an op
j portunity to manifell their zeal and ability
y, in defence of their iujured country and fea
:k faring brethren.
" SALEM, Oaober 12.
s e On Wednesday evening, capt. John De
' verenx, in the fchr. Rambler, arrived at
Marblehead in 33 days from Lilbon. He
informs, that Mr. Bulkley had received a
letter from Mr. Humphreys, ihe American
minister at Madrid, dated Aug. 15, stating,
p. that an account was r««eived v there, fhat
g n Buonaparte failed frortl Ma.ta on the 22d
, e . of June; that admiral Nelson arrived-there
n g soon after, and immediately failed in pursuit
c h of him, whom he overtook about the tft of.
July, when an engagement ensued, in which
admiral Nelson was defeated, with the loss
c |j of three (hips of the line.
h e Captain Devcreux brought from Lisbon
a number of Etiglifli papers-(which he gave
in . to thfi. officers of an Englilh man of war
e ; r from India, which he fell m with-) and o»e
of which, of the ißjth of Aug. contained a
,| e similar account with the above, received is
d England from Holland. It did not tell on
, re any official authority, and th« Englilh news
lts writers gave no credit to it.
We have seen a gentl-man who was. at
c h Naples as late as the 4th of July. Admiral
nj r Nelfon'.* fleet of fourteen fail of the line
[ t y passed that place about the 28th of June,
in pursuit of Buonaparte.
Canal Lottery, No. 11.
Considerably more than-Half Drawn.
■.ji Drams twice a week, every Monday & Tutjfday
I HCKETS For Sale, Seven Dollars tacn, at
. 1 WILLIAM BLACKBURN'S Lottery
and Broken office, No. 64 South Second-street,
of where cheek books are kept for examination r.nd
fegiftering in this, City of Waftiinjjt'on No. 4.
t|, e and Paterfon Lotteiies and information where
Tickets may be had in molt of thtf Lotteriesau
thorifed by law in any of the States of the
Vnion.
at State or the IVhul,
One prize of 10,000 dollars 10,000
Five 4,00e 20,000
, o Two »,coo 4,000
4 8 Nine i,oco 9,000
100 Ninetren 500 9,50®
°f Forty-f. ur 200 8,800
of With a full proportion of the one hundred
%nd of the fifty dollar prizes—tfce prici of tick
the ets will soon rife, particularly oa account df the
| c[ j live 4,000 dollar prizes that remain in the wheel
until the last day <>f drawing.
,7 Cs* Note, the bufmcU <a a Prokcr duly at
'" s tended to in all its branches at the above ofiice
en may 14 w&stf
dsa sette*
PHILADELPHIA.
M JNDAY EVENING, OCTOBER ia.
an
Hartftrd, Octeber 18.
On Thursday last, the Hon. G'nenal As
sembly of this State convened at New-Ha
ven. Elias Rerkini, Efq is cbofeii Speak
er, and fc-lizur Goodrich and John C. Smith,
Efqu res, Clerln7
• At the opetiin? of the feflions (we are in
farmed) His Excellency the Governor,
made the following fpeeth to botlr houses : (, e
Gentlemen of the Council,
Mr. Spealet, nnd Gentlemen »f the House
of Reprefcntativei x * ' ot
NOTHING very important has occur
red ®f internal concern, since last 1 had ths :
pleafureof meeting you in General /'fern- „
bly. Under the smiles of Divine Provi- !
dence, although in the m'idft of apprehen- tc *
fions, »ve have hitherto been permitted to
remain in security. ih
The executive business, which at your last
feflion was direfted to be performed, for the
immediate security and defence of the (late, q,
has been accomplished. The quarter-mailer
general ha 3 prucured the military Itorcs,
which were ordered, and they are lodged in ° £
| secure places of depolit. ft
An animated ardour pervades the militia v
fit the state, determined to defend our inef- £
\ timable-rights, 3'id support the iacred iude. t)
pendence us our country. While this spirit j
exifts, and a general barmotjy of (entiment °
prevaihj we may hope with the blelTi*g ef j
Heaven, ta put defiance all external dan-,
ger, and to stand firm and secure against the '•
arms of every hostile power.
A letter from his Excellency the Govern- ' o
or of the Commonwealth of Maflachufetts f r
has been received, and will now be commu- f,
lr nicated, refpefting a fubj-ft, which, from its F
|_ importance, will gain your early attention ; ' J
,f and which, I trdtt, Will obtain such prompt
concurrence in your decisions thereon, as the (
lt magnitude of its object appears to merit. u
Differences still fubfilting betwe#n tbe '
y United States and France, all our vigilance' a
, e and activity -will be required to guard again ft (
the arts and arms of that haughty aud in-] 5
j triguing foreign power. Situated as the | 1
j United States are, the arms of France are I 1
0 not to be dreaded: but their arts of fedue- j I
tion, and their intrigues at division and dif- [ 1
a . union, fill me with appreheafion and caution.) J
, n With those arts they are indefatigable and 1 .
„ powerful; in tbefe, they boast their fuperiot 1
(lcill among the nations; like the intrigues '
s _ of Philip of Mscedon, whose political arti
ie sices employed againlt the Grecian States,
_ did more towards ruining their liberties and 1
power, than that artful prince, in any other
way could have effefted. With this ancient
to example on ot»r minds, as well as the very
recent and melancholy experience. of modern .
n . European nations fegforr our
0 f TSUgFvt the necessity of guarding ourfelvea
p. the fatal effefts of foreign intrigues,
:d P ari 7 fpitit, and divided opinions. Let hs
:( j conltantly bear in mind, that if ever we are
1( j reduced by the power of Frar.ce, or subju
gated to her will, or that of any other im
th P tr '°° ■ yoke, it miift be eiFedled by the arts
of disunion and division. A divided aud
at disunited p.-ople cannot be a happy people ;
jj. nor can they maintain themselves in an ho
as nourable or defenfible state. Let union be
nd our polar star to guide our conduft, and
crt true national independence our objeft, and
,p. the efforts of the world cannot prove fuc
ity cefsful against the power of this happily litu
:a_ ated country.
A thorough csnviiSion of thejuftneft of this
idea, and the awful danger and fatal effedU of
disunion and division, will form my apology for
dwelling on this fnbjedl. Among numberless
other artifices which at this time are brought in- :
at to operation, , two great engines tfhich are made
He use of by our enemies against us, are French
[ a infidelity and l'r«n «h philolwphy ; —the ' cue
;an operating to the dcflmaion of ail religious len
timents's the other unhinging every fecial and
h'uipau tie by wleich ioeietief irt'rtincnted :
13 hoth tending to istnfcduce universal
2u disorder a»d cotilulion. Theie two horrid en
ere gmes, the footßeps of which, alas! are but too
uit visibly to be traced in many parts of our coun
of; try,,form the most demoralizing fyllem that
ich e * el ''tacked the happiness and social enjoyment
ofs f" I" ranee the prasice of this
system has introduced the ex'ftence of every
vice and calamity j aud in that pretended re
'on public, national happintfs,—l might almost fry
ave individual[ enjoyment, is scarcely known ; cer
war tainlv not to be- realized. The Ctuaiuia of
o»e at this time, prel'ents fnch scene« of in
d a '1 u ' t y an d violence, fiom this horrid fotirce, as
|j B gtves an awful and indruftive leflbu to all fur
roundiog nations who artentive y view her con
oa duil. Rather than adopt this fatal system, how
SWB careluily (hauld we cling lo our holy religion,;
the principles of which form an a'moft infinite
!at contrast with the falfe glare of this f'pecious' an
; ra l infidel philosophy ; and the praflice of which,
line n °t only affords substantial happineft in-lite,'but
gives tbe belt hopes of futurity.
111 ' How admirably superior to all the ingeni
. ous pretences of French philosophy is that
noble precept' of our holy religion, which
enjoins upon us the doing to others, whal
fj ever under like circumltances, we fliould
>at reasonably expedt'from tiiem to us. In a
tery ftrift adherence to this highly preferable
•eet, system, we may hope to avoid, those. scenes
r.nd of vice and Biifery, which France now et
• perieuces, aßd to cfcape that tftrrent of na
tional derangement, which threatens to
the wtie ' ra 'he happiness of the Old World; and
is seeking so extend its baneful influence to
this happy and distant continent. With a
,000 view to this idea, as well as on many other
,000 accoUnta) J appreciate the wisdom and mag
nanimity of our National Government, in
' 5 q S difiblving on our part, tbofe ties of alliance
g oo with which we have be«n too long and too
dred closely cosncded with France ; and which
tick- happily for us, had b*en preyioudy brokeu
the and outraged by that perfidious nation. An
,us intimate connexion with a nation of Infidels
a( and Atheists, with whom there can be no
ifiice foundation for faith or confidence, is to be
its avoided as the worit of evils AtotaKepa.
ration f om the policy and power of such a
people, is an event devoutly to be vvifhed.
May that. God who ha» been our father's
proteftion in their days of trouble, and our E
deliverer from many dangers, (till guard,,lls H
hv his power, and guide us by wifdonvj
and witile we fcrioufly trufl in this divine S:
proteflion, way we truly rejoice that the Q
L"~rd omnipotent reigr.eth among the na- R
tiona.
dsasette Marine %\ft.
Baltimore, Ofleber 19.
Arrived this 'day.
Brig Ranger, Captain Pcakc, from'KiiOol, which
he left th« 8 h September, {q> Cork, to join the con- v
voyj but learning the fleet had failed, bepthis course
for i'» uid tell in with it the next day. Parted from
again on the 18 h •icpteraber in ,a gale, witn five
other?, two of them .for Nlcw-Y-ori, two far Phila
delphia* and th<; Roba and Beifey, for James river, v:
which Captain P. parted with off the Capea The
Ranger carries 16 Rircs, and Caluted the foil on her
arrival. Fall go ds —Outings aucj Smith-
The
td the Ift
,we have already, bad • '
The lii.p Sally, one of die ciQ'-oy, i»
ih the bay, 35 days from Livccprxy; ai ai(y> the Pa
taipfcb, and a number of dther ycticU. b
AugirfK lat. 47
99 guns (French), boarded ihc George WaJMntfori,
Captain sampfoo, and informed CaptMn S rhat Vntey I.
had fallen in wjith, and had h*d an cnst>f>qmrnt wuh
the ship Eliza, of li«Uimore. {>«.• :otJ» or iaih f
ol August. The privateer had Tuffe»es mish; and
reported that tke Eh/.a wi.u'd <lravc fubk her, had no?
the fired so high. The priva:cer robbrd iheG orge r
Wafhihgton at a main top nuft and fevep.i othe* am- L
c es. Capt. S was noi informed, to hi* rccoMe£lion,
wbe-her the Eliza wasbourd to or from Puropc, but
that (he being ihkch.
[lt is <uppo(ed that the »bjye w*s thtfaow Eiua,
of Baltimore, owned by S. Smith and Buchanan, ihe
having left Liverpool homeward bojnd, on the 27th
July, armed with 10 fix ooimderj aad 6 fwivtli.J
" n
Bofion, Ottober 16.
This evening reached this pon. after a paß'ag* of
ofilv twenty two days fiopi lynd t<j iaiids the (hip
Packet, C»ptt>?n Tiott, fronrj Liverpool. She mouatt
| to fw.pouuders-'-and <Sn her pifTagr, his apt been
fortunate enough to meet with any Fretioh privateers.
Paflentfers, Mr William Hop», Mr. D-iwfon, and
! Miss Ramsay. Left at Liverpool, (Hip Cumberland,
j.Scott, and Accepted Maton, Delano, fur Billon; Al
liance, Wood; Caledonia, Mullaby; Two Brothers,
C uniaiins; Capbtirige, N«ym, for New York; Tri
utnpS, lor Baltimore ; Clothier, and Favourite, for
Philadelphia; Rebecca, Moles Myrct, Warren, Fanny,
and Jane, for Virginia ; Ja(ie, for Savannah.
On Sunday arrived at Glouccfler, brig Friendlhip,
Captain John Woodkerry, 32 day» from Demerara.
' Sailed under Britilh c;mvoy as far, as the lat. Of Bai
badoes, in company with several Americans, among
then;, fchooncr Hope, Hutchins, for N4wbury-Port;
j Venus, Magery, for Salem (arrived); Friendship, Bart-
I lett, Plymouih; Frienalhip, Mgulton, Old York;
t Hope, Hooper, Portsmouth; Thiee Friends, Blan
chard, Boston, Captains Hooper and Blaochard 101 l
I the convoy on the night of 15th September, iu lat. 41,
2. A brig belonging to. Portsmouth, -Tibbeta, Mailer,
failed with the convoy for Tobago.—Spoke no'hing,
but frequently chafed.
At Oporto, August 15, the Caroline. Taylor, for
Plymouth; Ariel, Davidfon, Philadelphia.
The pifcovery, of Boston, 18 days from Charlfton,
far London, was fpjiken with September ti, lat. 37,
4 o, long. 54 , 41, .
DONATIONS,
1 . Received at the Tents near Schuylkill, f»r the
1 use of the Peor.
1 Oft. 19.
, One bundle of baby clothes, from a lady",
1 name unknown.
One do. do. do. from Mrs. Rively, and five
dollars, from Mr. John Rively.
• One bundle, containing 3 sets of baby
i clothes, each twenty-two pieces, wrap-
I ped up in a blanket, from a married lady,
j name unknown.
- Four bundles of clothes, containing
: 163 pieces, from the ladtes of Green
1 Lodge, Nefhamony.
I 128 pieces of baby elirthes, from several la :
dies in Lower Dublin Township.
- One large bundle, containing men, women
and childrt-Hs' Cloathing principally new,
s from several of the ladie3 of Columbia,
f Laucafter county, being tht;ir second do
r nation, forwarded by Mr. Peter Thomp
son. .
e 5 bufheli of potatoes, from M . James
li Bringhurft, fenr'.
e PETER MIERCKEN,
■ Southwark, Oil. 20. ,ri . Chairman,
<• , ... 11. '
DONATIONS,
Received at the Encatftp'-rient at Ma(te<*s
0 place, for the use fcf the ppor.
1- October Jo.
it Nine barrels flour, and four barreh rye meal,
|t collefled in Sunbury aiKi its vicinity, and
ls forwarded by Meflrs. Jacob and Jefeph
; Siaton. '
' A bundle of newly,mad? cloathingfrom Mrs.
t'. Hartfhorne, «f Rahway, Ealt-Jerfey.
if Fifty-three pieces of infants .newly made
i* clo'athing, from Mrs. Hazird ■
18 Eleven dozen pieces of new .cloathirfg, for
r " women and children, from M.fs Lydja
J* Parker.
. Two bundles of mens cloathing, from Mr.
t e Jeremiah Parker.
l ohnl tl P r I c °»-
II > rona. KoMon, V
ut Ifaat IV. Morris, j
GtioßGfi DAVIS, '
at T this opportunity of informing
»}i his friends generally, thatio foan as the pre
fickncis will ir, he proj>ofei to for
sale, the most extenfiv* colljjvlrtori of
LAW BOOKS,
j c he evtr imported, or that waii imported into
cg the United Staus.-—T!re4at<: arrivals have br6ught
\um a number al valuab.e and fjarcp
*■' BOOKS, and tUfe tjipc&ed, will greats-add to
a * the quantity.
lO
ld ~ Eight Dollars Hi-ward.
a ROBBERY was committed oi>
er the I7thinflant, as thi house of the fub
y fcriber in the township of Solr-iury by two negro
P" men. —they carried off a quantity of cash ; a p«ck
in et book, containing some valuable papers; wcar
"e ing apparel, &c.— On= »f the negroes iia middle
>0 aged man, known by the nawe of John White^for
'a merly a refider.t of Philadelphia, ha* an impedi
-1(l tnent in hi' fpeecli—the other supposed to he
a runaway, about eighteen years as age, of
,n of middle Oaturc. Whoever ft cures the -afnrcfaid
18 villains so that they may be brought to justice, Biall
lo receive eight dollars lewatd, or four lor either of
je them tak-n fcparately.
ISAIAH TUCKEMONEY.
SoU-bury, lv Mo. 19th, 1798. I—Jt.iaw
» V • » f. r X-% 1% » \K T f» **
t TTYIJOSPITAI.
For tta-sill tr Oflobti-.
. • - ADMITTED. ■. • . ,
Elizabeth s£al)ingrr Julin Bui'ts
Haunah ■' ■ ■ »
DIED.
Sarah Lukins I.y ia Tihon ; ~
Qa>. {Sanamaker Elizabtih
Remaining in .the Hospital 57, 36 of whom
are on the recovery,
Interred from city and fiiburbs 3
City Hospital
v Total 7
PHILIP S. PHYSICK.
CHristo rh E rJDar rah , Sleward.
By order of the of Managers.
WILLIAM. JONES, Prudent.
Attell, Timoth* Parson, Clerk.
_ TWENTY-SIX new cases cf the pr«.
vailing fever, reported for the last 48
t®urs .by 16 phyficiarts.
DIED-—At C»ermahtnwn, Mr. Adai*
'Fr an ks, of this City—a worthy member
of the fraternity of Free Masons.
■ ,Oh Thursday evening la ft, <Mr. Rtf
bert Mille?. ,
List of. all the Burials in the ftveral Grave
Tunis of the City and Liberties of Phi/a
' dslphia, as taken from the books kept by
Clergymen, S xtons, &c.
[Collected for the Gazbttf of the Unitsd.
st/»tcs, by ROBHKT
Names of the BuriaJ Grounds. 15!^
' . tal-Q
Cnrift Church - - 0 <*
St. Peter'* ... .. . i| ®
St.' Pauls - - . 0,0
First Prcfbyterlan - • .®, ®
Seco:;d Prefbyterran - - , °j 1
Thfrd - . ol *.
Scot 5 Preibyteriiit - . - • 00
Allocate Church - . 00
St. Wary's Church • . - ' . I °
Trinity Church ... 00
friends' • . - . 0 V
Free Qaakera' - ' o
Swedes 7 " at
German Lutheran - - . 5
Reformed PrefbyJerian 1 0
Moravians' - - o I
Baptists' ... . CO
Methodiftj' - ' - . . 00
Univerfalifts' - - . , •.• 9 ®
Jews' - - . . 00
City Hospital -, . . . 70
KenGngton - . - , >1 O
Coates's - - . ..co
TUalfor the last 48 hours 2-I 4
Dr. Yj£atman's
Anti-pestilential Preservative and
; anti-bilious Pills,
ARE earnellly recommended at this Season*
againftthe Fevers that prevail. Prepared
and f®ld only by the Sublcriber, who feela it ne
cessary to embrace thiiopportuititf of acquaint
• ing the Public, thit he received .1 regulir edu
cation in the different Branches of
Physick, Surgery, & Midwifery,
, Under his Father, and other eminent rr..-n in
the cities'of London'and Bnfl?!, and (in the
, course of twenty-eight years) has fcen the ma
ny good effeiSls of this incomparable medicine,
is iiiliou*, Jaundice, or Hepatic cases, Dropsy,
rtheumatifrtj, Lues-Venerea, Scurvy, Worm ca
• fes, Malignant and other Diseases, proceeding
1 from acrimony and obitrudtion.
THE PILLS
l Are prepared according to-true medical pfin
-1 ciplci, and may be fai'e'v taken bythe indft de- v
licale 111 boxes .-f a quarter dollar, and half
a dollar, with directions, and fcaVcd with hi*
creil, cypher, and motto. None else are Ce
rt nuiiu.
N. B. The anti-pefHlential pre^
fervative, was ul'ed w ; th great success at .Lon
don, arfeillee, Brillol, and *othsr Cuies,
when they were rcfpeilively viiited with the
" PLAGUE.
In bottles of a quarter dollar and half j'dol
s lar, with Directions, and the Corks sealed a*
above.
CHARLETON. YBATMAJ^I
South E aft corner of Lomb.trr! Second flrccttf
New Market.
o<flcrber i iawl tu
s "—* ! ——
A French Classical Mathematical
SCHOOL/
• Ays 7TLI- be optned on Monday the tid. instant
d VV at that laigs commodious room formerly
h q(tupied by Mr. Leo in Natris'» Alley, No." JJ,
ucany opposite the City Tavern; unier Ae direc
s tion ot iVltffrs. timith add Chandler both of libe
ral educatijn, and long experienced in their re
fpeitive proi^lljon..—<is they intend under, the
le patronage of a difcerr.ing public, permanently
to ellabhih the'mfelves' in this undertakings their
)r whole tluciy an 1 attention will be d.-voced to the
a improvement «f their pupils.— rheic will be son-
Justed upon ;hc l.Lcit i molt approved pain,
through =4 complete course of academical ftu-di n,
r. or thofe|.art»only that may be pointed out, at nviro
immediately adapted to chcir particular views in |ife
—Certain portions of their :imc will be ailigned for
gc»graphj ,hi!tory,extrails, compoQtion, and de
, J ciamatiOus in French and Englilh, is order to form
_ | early habits os-writing and speaking with propri
«y—Vifits from parents an i literary charaiters,
tending to excite a spirit of emulation, will be
'g gratelmly received. Tnehours of lludy are irom
e- 9to it A.M. and from 2to 5'P. M.
or They offer to traiiflatethe Engli&jFreneh.Spnnifli
and Fortcguefc languages ; and to draw in tlrcir
proper modes and Uile, all kinds of w'ritftig, whe
ther legal, commercial, or tplftolary«
' n . the jirll Monday in November,they'alfa pro
• pole to opeu an evening lctiool for French, kook
keeping, (urvcyiug and navigation, of which they
to kave a pradiicm as well as theoratlcal knowledge.
As a nuintfer of French'gentlemen will attend, tiro
ftudenti oitlieir hng»»ge, by continually convers
ing with them, as w>.ll as Uicir teachers, will ac
quire, With the principles, a iaylity of ei
n picffion. ■
*.-■ AVIS AUX FRANCOIS :
ro
»- Meff'rs Chandler ct Smjfh ont
r " I'hcnqciir.de pr»vemr M.M. leu Francois, quils fe
propofent c'etablir urie Ac.Jcmir en Norri« alley,
r " No. 15 ; prelque Vo-a-vis a Bourse; dans la
quelle on enfeigi.era la langue Lat.nc, Angloife ec
"• Fraacaife : I'Ai ithrr.etiqtie, la tcuue iitt livrtsj la
Geographic.et les Mathomrtiquc-.
ld Ot fait a; flitoutc. fortes de trailuisli«ns dans lea
" ditci lacjuis : ct d. nne lecons chcz les particuliers.
Qu'on i'addreffe a l'hotei de Mr. Valktte au
coin It 4;mc rue ct Cheiry alley.
Oilo'jer 17,. "d tfPROPOSALS,
BT THE J !
Injur ante Company of North America.
Fcr In»<j*ance agaipt F»*i, on Dwelling;- I '
Houses. Vv -Te-Houfes, and other Buildings (and 1 1
on C*ui,Js ci»u.:aiiifd in such Buildings) diflant from !
Philadelphia, in the United State*. '
I. Common lufurancei, on hazards of the firlt 1
clals, wilt he undertaken at a premium of ahout ]
halt per cent. per annum. For extra hazardous 'I
rifques a larger preir i*m will be required, which ,
will vaty according to cireuTiflanecs, seldom ex- ' -
ceeding on? per cent, per annum ; but in fomem
jtances, wher the property infuted is n<tt only in
itftlf extra hazardous, but rendered still more so
by the vicinity of extra hazardous building* and I ,
occupations, the preoiium demanded will be raised
according: to circumftancei.
Hon Us and Ware House% the wall* and p«rti ,
tioir* of which are wholly of stone or brick, well |
eunftru&ed, so ay to bf guarded as well as may be
Igainft from wkhin, and free from extra ha
zardous boildings and occcupations in their neigh
borhood, will be deemed hazardous of the fir ft
class, and may be insured to their full value.
<\lfo Goods and Merchandize, not o an extra
hazardous kind, in calks bales, or package*, Ae
pofitcd in Aich buildings, to an amAunt not ex
ceeding 400© dollars ; bat if more than this fnm
Is required to be insured in one tenement, an addi
tional premium will be required, in proportion to i
circumftauces.
- 11. tnfurances will also be made on buildings and
goods extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned .
to the risque. But it is Hot easy to arrange thtfe ,
ucder particular heads or clafTes, so as to defctibe j
each with the neceflary accuracy. Each caf? muO
therefore be decided upon according to the tircuiti- j
ilancce a-.tsnding it ; and these circumflance? wilt,
in general, appear from the defcriptico accompa
uy Mg the application.
Buildings partly conftru&ed of brick or stone, |
■are preferable to those wholly wooder in
both rases, the stile of how they are oc- j
how they, are -situated, the neighboring ;
builiingf. and how occupied, are considerations to ;
be taken into viety. And with refpeA f» goods, .
their tendency, whether from their nature, or <
from the manner in which they are expoied, either •
to commence or to increase an accident*-fire, and i
their liability in such It ate to receive damage by j
wet, or by sudden a: dha y removal, or to be fto- I
len in time of confuficn and hufry, are all cir- {
camftanees of weight ; and the premiums must be !
proportioned accordingly. i
111 The following: ccnditiont are to be under-
ftor>d! y ? v, e parrits. ~ r ?
if:. JPhe lefurance is nt binding till the ftipu
-1 ire< premium' be - {
f . jjual from the time of such payment and accp- 1
vince thereof, whether the policy be immediately c
figncd or not.
td. Insurances raay be renewed at the expfra c
t?on of theierm ®f the policy, without further ex- I
pcufe* than the payment of the premium of the re
newed term, the circumft<*nc?scontinuing the fame t
as they we£e rnderftood by the Infan r«* at the tim<° 1
the former insurance was aia&c ; but the payment c
of this premium is efTential to such rerewai ; anG t
if the party insured fufftfs any time to elapse after f
the expiration of the former insurance, before he
pays a premium for the renewal, he ianot insured t
during such time ; Ror can the infurar.ee be renew- c
ed on the former policy but by computing the t
commencement bf the renewal from fc h«* expiration c
6f the former insurance. The fubjoit of intur- j
ance may ncverthcicf* be open to treaty for a new (
liifurar.ee. ?
3d. If any ether insurance be made on the flme ]
property ; it mull be made known at the time of f
application, otherwifp the policy made on such ap
plication will be void. i
4th Good* ftVM in trust, or consignment. r
t**y be infur-d as such in a f&n&rate policy ; but t
thcy.are'bof t« be conlidtfred >s p
5"tS. ['his company will not be liable or accoun- (
ta'j lolor any loss or damage occafion-'d by any ior- n
cljr■: invaSop, or by Miy military or usurped force-
Or by peafon of any civil commotion ; or occaiion, t
by guApowdt r. aquafortis or other thing of th- o
like kind kept in the bu lding, or among.'l the pro
perty insured. u
' th. Bill, of Eichange, Bonds and other Secu
rities Title Dts d< Money. Bank and other pro- ■
miffsry Notes, are not included in any infsranee ; si
nor are paistitigs, -redal*, jewels, gems, antique
cur;t<fiti<-., or mirrors exceeding the value of twen
» ty-f:ve (Joll.irs each, to be cbnfidered as insured une "
less particularly mentioned and by special agree
ment.
7<h. No insurance will be maJe for a fliorter
term than one year, nor 'or a longer term than fe- j
jVck years. Ptrfons choosing to -nfare for seven j
y»irs G:all b eallowed one year's premium by way
«f uifcount: One third of a years premium (hall n
be abated m like manner on an infuraace for e
tbree years.
Bth Losses furtained by fire an property infurtd,
Jhall be paid in thirty days after due prouf and li- j
quidation thereof, without deduSion.
A Jefci iption of the property to be infurod will
be cxp ite i with each application, to be niade by J
a ujafter carpenter aud signed by him, as Acll as
by tha owner of the building 01 applicant for in
fura: ce, and' attested before a Notary or principal j
Alafifirate, w',-.o will certify his knowledge of the
parties and their credibility. '
With rtfpedf to House? and other Buildings,
lit. 'l he site and position ; describing the (
flreet or road on or near which the building 3
Italics ; its contiguity to water, and other cir- f
rilniltantes relative to the extingu>fnment of lira
in cafe ot accident; and particularly whether c
any and what fire companies are eftabl'lhed, and t
engines provided, in the place or neighbourhood. {
id. The materials of which it i« built, whe
ther of brick, stone or wood, and what part of
earh, 4s well as to the outside walls as inlide or
partition walls, and their refpedlire height and
thickness ; the style of the roof and of what
ty walls ; what kind of access to'lhe top of the '
h'oufe a"U to the chimnies ; whether any and
**hat elcftric rods ; the number and kind of .
(ire places ; and the kind of depefit for athes.
3d. The dimensions of the building and how
divided, and the style in which jt js fmiihed so
as to enable indifferent persons to judge in what
manner it js to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury; the .ige and condition of the building,
jiiJ how occupied, whether merely as a dwel
ling houl'e, or for any other, and for what pur
jjcle , also an estimate of the value ef thehoulie
or building independent of the ground.
4th. Ti.c (ituation withrefpedl to other build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, x compr«hendiDg at least one hundred feet
each way : what kind of buildings are within
that diAaHce, bow built, of what materials,and
how occupied or improved, whether as dwel
lings for private families or ptherwife : whe
ther any and what trade or manufactory is car
ried oh, and particularly whether there be any
extrahazardous articles used, or ufuallydepo
fited inlhc house.or within the distance afore
fai»l, and of what kind.
JUfpe«£ling£oo<fr in Houses, WareKoufes, Ac.
A j'enetal dsfcriptioo of the building in
which they are kept will be espeiled, limilar in
ail refpeils.as to the danger from fire, with that
for Insurance on the buildings them
fcives.
a. A description of the kinds and nature of
die goods, whether in calks or other packages,
or opened ; and whether difpbyed in wi.ole
yiiCcs or iu iht ul'ual form for Aud
/
liftl.ego'ji's afy.miterialiy in kind, j geiieraf
ei.iina'e t>l tlic value ot each kiud propjjfcd to
i.e infurrd ; but m tilt ialt particular minute
of deicription i, not expeiled.
-*- ■ tides of the following kinds are deem- '
led txtra ha/ardous, though in various degrees,
j •in whatever buirdipig thty may be placed, viz. c
, pitch, tar,turpentine, rolin, wax, tallow, oil, 1
inflammable spirits, sulphur, herrip,flax, cotton, '
dry g»>ods of an inflammable kind opened.— 1
t Glvifs, china ware or porcelain, especially un- '
t parked; Looking glafles, jcwelery ; and alio
s thcr articles mors than commonly inflammable, ■
1 .or irort than cemmotily liable to injury by fud- i
- den removal or by moiflures, or particularly j
- j obnoxious te theft on in alarm of fii'e.
1 Letters part paid, direAod to the Secretary of
0 the Board of Directors, will be duly attended
to. An order for Jnfurance accompanied by the
means of paying the premium, will be imme
diately executed on tke premium being paid. If
the application contain an enquiry only, it will
be»anfwered.
By order of the Board,
EBENEZER HAZARD, Sec'rj.
j Office of the Insurance Company of Norti }
•America j Pbitad. Feb. I, 1798. \
a Feb. 14. lamtf
1 Mills, Portage, See.
1 TO BE LEASED FOR A TERM OF YEARS.
" ' I Obe leafed, for a term not less than three,
I nor more than seven years, a V ALU ABLE
PROI' 1 Rl'V at the Seneca-Falls, in the county ef ;
1 Onondajo, »nd flats of New-York, on the Banks
e of the Saneca-river, two tniles weft of the Cayuga
'' ferry, and miles east of Geneva.
This eftalbli'rimeDt consists of an excellent gritl
" mill, saw mill, dwelling house, barn, and a port 1
> age or carrying place, with between thirty and 1
- 'orty acre* ol land, under good improvement, and 1
as much more in the vicinity, as may be required <
for future improvement. 1
3 Th* grift mill is a handsome, Rcwand well fin 1
ifhed building, of 50 by 30 feet, 3 stories high <
- ana iurnifhed with a run of excellent Burr stones
5 and another of Efopus' {tones, of the belt quality
. —and the mod approved limits, &c. calculated to
mak« all the different qualities of flour for axpor
r tatisri or for horneconfumption : It is acceflible by 1
1 water from every part of the Cayuga lake ami Se- 1
' neca-river, as well as from the Seneca-lake—-an<i
from its situation, conmands a veryextenfive and
- encreafiug coftom : The dream on which it stands, j
: being the cutlet of the Stucca-lake, the mill can
never be in want of water ; and as it has bsc-n kept
workieg during the fevi_relt season of rho lail win
ter, it is not liable to be impeded by frofl :
The saw mill is also new, situate.: on the sam«
• ftrcam, now furnifhed with ail ample flock of
logs, of which a supply may at all times be pro
cured by laud or water, of the Lett quality :
l he dwelling houfc i» well calculated for the use
of the miller, is new, and fulßciantly laige : lhe t
barn is about 40 feet fqulre, and entirely new : ;
The portage is 3-4thsof a mile in length, along ' 1
the Seneca-falls—over which were pasTed in the a
la* year, nearly two hundred boats with their f
contents ; this nbjedl is already produfirva of a
handsome income, which mult be incrcafing and
permanent :
Among the many advantages of thisfituition,
lAtlfl be numbered t!ie fertility of thefuriounding
country—being the improved part of the coun
ty of Onondaga—the concentration of inter-
conrfe by land and water, the Geneffce ftateroad n
pafHng through it, as well as all water carriage to
Geneva, and the counties of Ontario and Steuben ; '
which renders it a moll eligible stand for a Store or
Tavern—'rhe river aud lakes abound in fifh and c
few! and the country with deer and other garue. 11
Besides the mills aiready ere&ed at this place, it e
iscakulafed for iuj additional water works that "
may be fnund neceff :ry—Fulling Brill, bilk niHl '
tannery, firges, ic. maybe eredted at a faiall ex- r
Ptnc—,'ron ore nuy be brought in boats from the y
Caynga lake ; and it is theught t6 abound in the c
neighborhood.
The stock on hand w : ll bs fold to the bffee, and 3
the cattl , uterifils, smith's forge, ic. may bcfold
or let the premises. v
If a porchafe should offer for the whole or an 1
undivided part of the premises it will be fold.
F«r term of sal* or lease, apply to mr. Wil- 1
iriMtH Mtndeksk. at the Seneca falls, or to the
fubfcrir,er, at Schenectady. ,
STEPHEN N. BAYARD.
i'ltie < t lawim
federal iViills, -
A DJOINING Georgetown, ard the City of j.
xi. Washington, will be offered at Public Sale, j
: on the 10th day of Sepumber next, at the Union
Tavetn, if not previously fold at Private sale.
Those mill«in point of situation for bjfincfa and 0
na<ural advantages are genrrally admitted to be
equal to any in America. The Merchant Mill is
a large brick house, eighty feet by fifty, almolt ■.
1 new, in which are erected four pair of Burr mill- I
flon«« with elevator*, hopperboys and bolting
cloths, completely finifhed and conftrudled in such
a manner that the whole of the mills may manu- 'J
fa&ure flour at the fame time. The country mill
' which is creeled near the ether, is entirely new,
| a strong stone building, containing one pair of ?
stones, and built in such a manner that the second '
pair may be put up with little expence. This mill
inconveniently finifhed, and calculated to carry on
extensively, country work, of which it gels a con- e
ftant supply. There is belonging to the said mills 1
174 acrsi of land, the whole of which will be l
fold with the mills. »
One third of the purchase money will be requir
ed in sixty days from the day of sale, and f the
balance a liberal credit will be given. Further J
particulars willbe mad known or the day of sale. f
JOSEPH E. ROWLES,
Surviving partner of 1
JOSEPH E. ROWLES ts" Co.
| Georgetown. Ju'y tl. I?—tawts 1
LANDING,
? At South Street wharf, the cargo of the (hip Coii-
from Batrvia—
f About 300 tons of Java Coffee, ,
of tfcegiowth of 1794 and 1795
' 60 tons of Java Sugar, i
t In cannifters—tor sale by t
f FETES SLIGHT, j
WH» ALSO OFFERS lot SALE,
' 15# hhdi.choice Jamaica Sugars 1
Jamaica rum in hhds ,
Brandy lit and 4th proof in pipes, hhds. 1
- and quarter ca&s
Madeira in p'pes
Old Batavia Arrack
r ju'v a $
n r " FOR SALE,
I A F ! RW onthe road leading to State Island,
I Xi within foul and an hall miles of Philadelphia,
containing 45 acres in the highefl Date of cultivation
—Jjaeies ot whi< l. is moadow, the remainder up
land. l beie areon the premises a new frame House
yard Barn, wuh an excrllew kilchen garden, contain- [
1- ing a f'eat l umber of frit Trees.— Immediate poffcf- 1
.. fion will be given.
For terms apply to
Tho mas IP. Francisy
n julyiß No. 98 South Third street.*
" To be Let,
An airy three Story Brick House,
if 'h l a°»"b fi3e of Filbert Street, between;
. V_/ Eighth md Ninth street, formerly occupied j
a» the Surveyor General's Office-—Enquire at No. I
j 111, Chefnut S:re«.
aujuttic te;c
.
DUTY on CARRIAGE* }■„.
Notice is hereby
r prtAT agreeably to ?n 4ft ni C •• grc.s of thi
I. Unit «i States of Arnerrca, paftTciT at &
dclphia ths i3th day of May, 1796, Uvia* d.u- j :
tics on carriages for the conveyance of pcrfch*, a'icf la
repealing the former for that piacpofc—-ThatJ
th'-re (hall he levied, coUrSed and upon r»* 1 . t j.
carriages for the conveyance of jwrrfons, which
fcail ke kept by or for any person, for his or her [y
own life, or to lit cut to hire, or for the convey- £
ing »f paflciigert, the Several duties and rates ♦*!- j £
lowing, viz. dota< '
For and upou every coach f$
upon every chariot 1 2 v
upon every post chariot r i
upon every pokl chlilt U 7
upon every phiiton, with or without top k) 11
; upon every
upcu other carriages, having pannel } "
work above, with blinds,
or curtain* 3
four-wheel carriage?, having") 0
frame polls and tops, with heel > 6 P
spring* } ii
upon four-whffel top with F
woodea or iron fp'riiigs on jacks J 3 f<
upJn curricles wrth tops 3 v
upon chaile* with tops j p
upon chair* wrth top* 3
upon fuikies with t«n< - 3 ' d
, upon other two whtfel top carriages 3 ii
» upon two wheel carriages with Seel") >' j,
or irou springs j 3 I
r For and upon all other two wheel carriages 2 j
1 upon every four wheeled j •
having framed pofls a*d top> ; V 2 .
and retting upon wooden spars J f
1 he Colis&or «f the revenue of the firfl division .
of the firft survey of the diftrid of Pennfylvaitia, i
will attcud daily until the 30th day of September j
next, lot the purpose of receiving the duties on
carriages, at Germantown, on t!i< Main street, a a
1/ttle above the fijn of the King of Prufiia, of *
which all persons poilefTed of fiich carriages are 1 v
delircd to take notice. ft
Notice is also given, 0
To all retail dealers in wines and foreign distilled G
fpir;tuou> liq»jor>, that lictnles will he granted to
them ; one licence for carrying on the hufinef* of P
retailing of win s in a tefg quantity, cr in lefg f
uantities. than 30 gallon*—ind one licence for 11
•trying on the hufincfs ®f retailing fpirituoiis !i-
quor* in less quantities than twenty at the °.
fame time and at the fame place, by t !
JAMES ASH, 0
Colie&or of tie iH division of the ill
survey of of l J eunfy!v«nia. ll
Office of Inipe&iou at "> tl
22d A.uguO, f tl
C r tr y denomination of Stamps to be had f(
at said oince.
£>* Ihe stamp Press is removed li
to the Office of Infpecfcoi) jn Gcrmiintown, on the a
Mii* J.rect, a Tittle above the lig iot the King of "
atteniatice will be given for the °
luommudaiioa ct thole \vho svilh nny :nltr*:nints
Damped, on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Satrfrdsys. r <
ugu tan ci
— : tl
for Sale at Public Au&ion, cl
OA' THE PREMISES, a '
FOURLOTS on Harper 2nd Keith's wharf, in °
Alexandria, on the >6th day of O<2ober
next, if not fold at prMa'e sale before that time.
One of tiiefe lots is near the end of the wharf, ''
I tweaty feet beyond which the water h two fathrms 1
deep, a'eout forty feet '.ut three fathoms fiffV leet ll
out the water is four fathoms, and grdWs deeper
imtft it cotnii to thfc channel, which is ahout sev
enty leer, from the entf of the whari. There it 1)1
" k e ' on £'"g to th: hink as Willlc'vel q
near the,end. I'here is in thm file an half acre lot *'
very fit for a tavern ; it u well watered, and an ex- o
cellent fland for that business. This property will e;
be fold for ready money, and alrogether or fepar- n
ate, as may belt fait the purchaser ; it lays on the ft
lower, fide of Alexandria, which is now improving tl
vtry fall. A Sketch of the ground may b • f>en in t J
the h*nds of the Printer hereof. For terms at lj
privatefale, apyTy to Wm Hartsusrne, or to f a
the fubferiber, ill Alexandria.
JOHN HARPER. t
September 3 lawßw |
Wants iimpioyment, b
A YOUNG MAN, who has served a regu
lar apprenticefljip to the mercantile bull- "
nest in this city, wilhes to engage in a Counting .
hodfe oroffics, w rites a good liand and under- J 1
(lands accounts, can be well recommended and
fccurity given if required. Esquire at the
office of this Gazette.
junc 2T
Bafkenridge—for laic
IT consists of 920 acres, almost all of which ia
a fine rich Meaifow, (the refidenceof the late
E«rl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which arc bounded on the
Eafl by the river Pafaick.
Th*r<» are on it a number of buildings, forming
afquare of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
is a very convenientone andjafmallexpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard confiflsof 1500 fin«bearingei>graf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other pirts of said ti
trad near 300 oth&r Apple Trees—as also a great •
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the 11
belt and most delicious kinds. g
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its situation is about 18 miles t
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do. .
from Morris-Town, an i n fror* Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered. d
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre c
in calh, on delivery of the deeds. Please to in
quire of T. McEUEN & Co. (
No. 78, Chcfuut treet.
cb«uary 1. eodtf
t
Patent Ploughs, t
TO be fold for ealh by Joseph Salter at Atfion
Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry—Jonathan
Haiker, Woodbury—and Jefle Evans, Lumber
ton, Those who have uled them give them the
preference to any other kind, as tbey require
less team, break the ground better are kept in
erder at less expence and are fold at a cheaper
rate—the plan is much fimplified and confiftsof
• but one piece of cast iron, with the handles and t!
beam of wood; they may befixed with wrought ~
lays and coulters to be pgt on with screws and l '
taken off at pleasure P
P.itcnt rights for \ ending with infttjuflions for r
making them may be had by applying to John F
, Newbold, or the fubferiber No. 21 a North c
1 Front-street.
Who bat} far Sate;
Cr to Lease soi 3 a term of 7ran,
A number or valuable trails of Land, well
. J situated fer Mills, Iron tVerks or Farms, most- r
j Iv improved, lying chit fly in the county of Hun-
I tingdon o*t« of Ptnnfjrivania. Those who may .
j incline to view them will please to apply u, 1
, John Canan cfq. near Huntingdon ' a
Charles We wbohf.
j u! y '7 i:iwtf c
FOR SALiT
1 J 9Y THE tVnt(ll|U, NO. SLIVIXTH.JT4I£T,
18 Bags Frefti Cioves.
Willing & Fran tit.
jure »9. Jtf
i AN ACT "
• efr ki relief..if he Ae/vpe* fi»f. & anUj.}
provinces of Car.n'Q and A ova ■ Scoha.
. ;yi;t en'nSed bt the ritidHjufe
J- JJ a j ft*
States'Of Amerit*, 'in J
j; > la-i-lT the chiiKs of certain i>trl.jnrclam>i« j
lands tin<l?t the rel'olutions <1 ot tde
trmi*-thlrU of April, one thoufand_fsveo hun
d:-e.l and ei-lity-itree, end the thmetmh of
Ap.il, otic thoTitand seven h«ind'eo and ei r - y
: five, slrctuihi from tlver BrttiOi ~m0....cC-s of {
; Cifcias and Ncea-Scotia, t+ie Sectary for the ,
I Department of VVar, be, and is hereby autt»o
rized and dicefled to give notice ill one or more
j of the public papers of each of tiif htates o.
Vermont, .MafDchufetts, New-York, New-
Hampfblre'a'rid Tcnnfylvi'iia. to allperlon» nav
ing eliifTi" under tl'e falo ref.iti/tioiA, so trani
mit to 'h» War-ofrae, within two years ifter
the prtfengW tlfis *«,- a jull ar.tl true ac.count
of their clsims to the bounty of Ct'sj'rt.'-.
Sec. 2. And be lt further enaHedi That no
other perfonsftali be entitled tp the benefit o. tke
of this thin those of 'hf f; bow
ing delcriptions, or their widows and i;eirs, viz.
First, rtiofe heads of families, and fingfe per
sons, not members of any fach f2Viiii.es, who
were residents in one of the provinces aforefiid,
prior to the fourth day of July, one thousand
seven hundred and fevciity.fi 1, and who aban
doned their lettlement6, in confeq'icucenf hav
! i«g given aid ti> the United Colonies or States,
in the revofutinnary War apar.'lt Great-Britain,
1 or with irttentfon to give such aill, and continti
! Ed in the Uuited States, or in their lervke, dur
' ing the said war, and did not return to retJe iii
( the dominions of the king of Great-Brttain,
' prior to the twenty-fifth of November, one
tlionfi'nd seven hundred and eighty-three. Se
condly, the widows and heirs of all such per
! ns as were aflual rcfidentsj as af.irefaid, who
abandoned their settlements, as alorelaid, and
rfieil withih the United States, or in their set
] vice (luting the said war : and thirdly, all
fens » ho were members of f jmilies at the time
of their coming into the United States, and who
during tbe war, entered into their fervire.
Sec. 3. And be it farther enatlid, That the
proof of the several circnmiiances neceifary to
entitle the applicants to the benefits of this afl,
may be taken before a judge of the supreme or
diftrifl court of the United States, or a judge
of the Supreme *r superior court, or fhtfitfl jnf"
ticeorfirH of the court ot common pleas
or county cow t of any Slat?
See. e r . And be it further enafled, That at
the explfitidn of fifteen motlths from atid after
the pa (Ting of thisa<3, and from time t. Tim«?
th«reafter, it liall lie the duty of the Secretary
for the Department of War, to lay such evi
dence of claims as he may have received, before
the Secretary and Comptroller of the Treasury,
artd with them, proceed to examine the testi
mony, 3nd give their judgment wh;t quanlity
of land ouirht to be allowed to ths ihdividual
claimants, tn prapottion ro the of their ■
refpedlive fei vices, facnfices and iafferirtgt, fit
consequence of their attachment te the ciulecf 5
the United States; alhwving to those of the firft
cCft a qnantfty not exceeding one thousand acres ; 1
and to the lafl elafu, a quantity not exceeding '
one hutidrfrf, maliiifg filch intermediate classes 0
as the refbli/tiohs aforefaid, aAd diiifihutive jus
tice, may, in their judgment reijatre, and make 3
report thereof, to Congress. And in cafe iny
fyeii claimant (hall have ftftained such loiT«s anil >
fufferings, or performed such services for th* 1
United States, that he canßot justly be claficd
in any one een' ral claf>, a feparare report ffiall (
be made of his cfrcumftances, tcge'ther with the "
quantity of land that ou;;ht to be allowed him, 1
. hawing rrrfercnce to the foregoing ritia : Pri>- _
vided, 'thnTn toilTiTering wfot conpCßl <i*n a
ought to b: made by virtue of this adt, all grants
except military grants, which may have been 5
made by the United States, or individual States, S
shall bt conlidered at the j«(t valua thereof, at
the time the fame were made, refpetflively, ei- f
ther in whole or in part, as the cife may be, a '
latisfatftion to those who mav have received the 1
fame : Provided also, that no claim under this
law, lhall be afiignable until after repurt made 1
to Congress, as aforefaid, and until the said
lands be granted to the persons entitled to the
benefit of this a<3.
Sec. j. Beit further enuHed, That ill claims
in virtue of said resolutions of Congress, wht£h
shall not be exhibited as aforefaid, within the
time by this adi limited, (hall forever thereafter
be barred. 1
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House cf Reprefentati-ves
TH : JEFFERSON,
Viee-Prefiiißt of the United States,
and President of the Senate.
Approved, yfpril 7, 1798.
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States.
DepoEted among the llolls in the office of the
Department of State,
Timothy PiCKtRtNe,
Secretary of State.
CC5* Pursuant to the above Aft, No
tice is hereby given to all persons hav- '
ing claims under the resolutions of Con
gress, of the 23d of April, 1783, and
the 13th of April, 1785, to tranfmitto
the War-Office within two years after
the passing of the said Act, viz. the 7th
day of April, IJ9B, a just and trueac'
count of their claims to the bounty of
Congrefi.
In the proof of Claims, a ftrift atten
tion mull be paid to the requisitions of
the 2d and 3d Settions of the Aft.
JAMES M'HENRY,
Secretary »f War.
j u 'y '9 Jdw6w
AURORA office:;
Odober 10, 1798. •
Reports having been circulated
that 1 Ht AUROR A was not to be re-publilhed,
—The public rre hereby refpedfuliy informed
that the want of hands alone has prevented its re
publication several days ago; but that such ar
. rangen'.euts arc now making as will assure the ap
pearance of the pap:r in the courfc of the present,
or the firft week of the next mor.th. .
CA UTJCfWr —
WHEREAS a certain perfonfwindled
from me on the firft ir.ft. by giving
ms in lieu thereof a forged check on the Bank 1
of North America, anote of that date, drawn ]
in my favour by Mr. Jchn Travis; and pay- !
able in fix months, for three thousand four |
hundred and fifty seven dollars and forty-fix I
cents. ALL persons are dclired r.ot to re
cede any transfer of it. as it will not be
pa:d by cit'r er the drawer or endorser unlcfs
I recovered by law. " 1
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
liacc Street.
aaguft 6.
II
This Day Publijhed,
' And sot- laic it the OfS. e'ot the Editor, A'o.
fl9 Chei'nut-ltreet,'
' (Price 1,-ito of a Dollar,J
AN ORATION,
PruHOUllCt!: July 4,1798,
At theiwueftof t!«; Inhabitants of the Town of
BOSTON, in co'imiemorition of the aim:-
verlarjf <Jf A.-nerfean Independeace.
By JotiAU QurAcr.
p " The inrtMcis upon our public liberty, catt
. for repiratioh—The wrongs we havefufhiwed,
call so—Justice. That Reparation and, that
, Jnftice. may yet be obtained, by Union, Spirit,
j- and Firmness. But to divide and conquer wa»
the maxim of the Devil in the garden of HdeA,
and to disunite and enslave hath been the princi
ple of atf hii votaries froih that period to the
r pvel'crrt."
. Obicrvuiitns on the Btstov Port-Bill, iSjc.p. 7 J
bf. ttie idle J. Quiucy, jun.
aneuft :i - -
= TREASURY DEPARTMENT*
Juki 17, 1798.
NOtfCE IS HBRE3Y GIVI-N, That by vir
ttie of an ait, paflVd during the present fef
" Con fcf Congrrefs, so much of the acS entituled
' " An Ail makjng farther provision forthefnp
" " of the public debt"—passed the third day of
March, one thousand seven hundred andjinety
-1 five, as bars from settlement or allowance,
, Certificates, commonly called Loan Office and
final fetrlement Certificate),, and Indents of In
ferefls, is fufpemied until the twelfth day o
i June, which will be in the year one thousand fevett
, hundred and ninety ninj.
c That on the liquidation and settlement of thff
. said CtTtificat-.s, and Indents of Interest, at the
. Trenfury, the Creditors will be entitled to receiva
Ccrti.iiat[*s of funded I'hrcePer Cenr.Stocketjual
j to the amount of the said Indent?, and the arrear
ages o f interest due un their said Certificates, prior
to the firil day of January one thousand ieven'
. hundred and ninety one
J That the principal sums of the said I.oan Office
and final settlement Certificates with the interest
thereon, since the firft day ol January, one thou
sand seven hundred and ninety one» wilibedifv
' charged after liquidation at the Treasury, by the
' payment ot interest and r< imburftment of princi
pal, equal to the funis which would have been
£ payable thereon, if tie said Certificates had been
fuhferibed, pnrfuant to ttib A&s makiog-'provifiott
s tor the debts of the Unfrcd States, coutra&cd dur
ing the late war, and by the payment of other
t , Turns, equal to the market value of the remaining
Stock, which would have been created by such
f fubicriptioos asaforefaid, which market value wilt
1 be determined by the Pomptroller of theTreafnry.
OLIVER WOLCOTT, '
f Secretary »f the Treaf*ry\
jnn» 18 lawtf
General Poft-Office,
PROPOSALS for carrying the mails of the
United States on the following routes will
, b« received at thiscißce until the jotb day of
f September next inclusive.
I J. From Pittfburg P. by Canr.onfburg, Wash
; ington, Weft-Liberty, aud Wills
t town to Zene* at the mouth of Licking-creek,
s on tie Mti iking urn, efti»ated 140 miles.
Leave Pittfburg every Friday at 2 p M. and
. arrive at Zanes tha next Monday by BP. M.
f Returning—Leave Zanes every Tuesday at f
] A. it. and arrive at Pittfburg the next Friday by
t 10 A. M.
1 a. From Zanes, at the mouth of Lickingj
1 Crt>ek on the Mnfkingum, hy Chilitothe and
Mafley's to Mayfville ia Kentucky ; eflimated
140 miles.
Leave Zanes every Tgefdav at 5 a■ M. and
vC- at tvi y r^.. jltt H c t*— try To m»
Ret'.irniKg—Leave Msyfviile every Fridav-by
2 P.M. and arrive at Zanesthe next Moaday by
8 P• Mi
The carriage of the mails to commence on the
firft dav ot next an/1 continue until
the firft day of Ov5l« bcr 1800. Payments will
he made quarterly.
The usual penalties for d-lays and failures wilt
be stipulated in the contrail.
Jofcph Habcrjham,
PoJI-Mafier General.
Philadelphia, July 13, 1798* m&thftw
HEALTH OFFICE.
Philadelphia, tj! May, 1798.
Extract «f an ail to alter and amend the Health
Laws of this Commonwealth, p*.fed 4111 April
1798.
Sed. 8- A k fur:l ' er enafled hy the au
-TV thorityaforefaid, That every houfe
kecpcr within the city of Philadelphia, the town,
flnps of the Northern Liberties and Moyamsntinr,
and didria of Southwark, within a mile of the li
mitso! the city, taking in boarders arriving by sea
or by land, from any foreign port or plact, ar.d ha
vmgany LbirJsr inhisor her family, whoihall ha
taken Gck of any dif-afe whatfoevcr, between the
nrft day of May and the f!rft day of November in
a ." y X ca ,r* w "' ,,n twenty dav« next after such boar
.r,. 1 co ' n ' : t0 lod g e or her house, fnall
- w,tn.n 14 hours next niter the knowledge of fueh
. «" c "it:f'- make report at the Health.Office of the
name of,fuch sick perioi., the of his or her ar
- rival at the toufe and of his or her being-taken sick
j and of the name and place of abode of Juch houfc
™£P cr i the Phyficias. of the Health
-0 Office (hall forthwith viftt the pment, and renor«
r to the office his opinion of the nature of such dif
caie, that measures may be taken to prevent the
1 spreading of thoinfeiSion ; and if any Jioufekeeper
- tM-glcft to give information 111 the manneraad
within the time aforcfaid, and ihullbe thereof con
t vitted, in any court of criminal j»r tsdiaioa within
this Commonwealth uporindiiftmeot by vcrdi *1
or confeffion, he or she (hall formic and pay :1 n ae
- co th= us, of the said hospital, no; less thin twenty
f uollars, nor more than one hundred dollars, to bp
impofsd at the discretion of the court, accotdi"e toi
the c.rcumftance, of greater or less aggravation at.,
tending each particular cafe.
By order oi the B.oard of Health,
wM AI.i.KN, HealthOificer,
- TaWj'h of the'Vort ot Philadclpl' a.
he Public are hereby informed
I ' did n»t mean to authorise Col. WT*
\ X. uni Nichols to declare, that I would not nay-
V» ess ricovered by law, my not e alluded te 1 h i
d "«'<"• of tWe 6th of Atigu.ll, publiffied in the Ua
zette of the United States of laA evening. I fin
, cerely lament hi, lols, and t.ld him I „„ u ld
all t coa.ld do cosfittenth- with my credit to Icr.e
him, but went no farther *
august 7 JO " N 7S *riS._
Mc?:!t fo r South-Carolina iff Georgia
d P'^biic T miS W prcv,dca for carr v4Ihi
%a d Chi ' C ™ lllsb y WJter Philadelphia
4 on VSa/s Th 7> , W 'T VC Phil^e!ph ia
oofridays. Phepoft by land will becsniinu
- riTiVth " "P erirnent » -Hde ,n
r DKket If eXP ' ll r on and 'S»"J»r!ty of the
Ltt r perfm chufes toh ai -e tlteir
x let ers sent byl«,d only, the,- Will please L .
.. -ie the Word Land upon the lever-, - other
-6 will ST b V CnM>y , ' llt conveyance which
» e kwware ieftb uie
joftph Uaberfhi
" Poj},MrJe* Gemt'U
' 13, I;yS. £