of tueHnitetl States, ™Philadelphia Daily Advertiser,
Number 1695.J
Nicklin y Griffth,
At their Store oo Wi'.nut Street Wharf—
HAVE FOR SALt,
58 hhds. of Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wme in pipes and hhds.
Teneriffe do. in pipes
Old Port Ha. in hhds.
Imperial Tea in quarters and eightht ef ehefls
Sail Canvafu, No. I-, to S
Dimities, Ginghams, and MuQinets, in packa
ges suitable far the Weft-India market
Nails assarted
/.'tack quart bottles
Queens ware in hhds. and crates
Yellow ochre dry in casks j
And at New-York, on board the
<hip Diana, from Liverpool, expe&ed round
as fonn rf? the navigation is op«n,
Fine Liverpool Salt
Coals
Spjnifh Brown
Venetian Red
Purple Brown ! p AINTS
Patent White f
White Lead
Red Lead j
Cokothar vitriol
160 bundles Sheathing paptr
Seaming Twine
For Sale or Chatter.
ALSO,
Brig Amazon.
N. B. '1 he late firm of Philip Nickliu & Co.
is now chaneed to
NTCKLIN GRIFFITH.
January I. eodtf
For Savannah,
7hefajl failing Ship
Patrick Gribben, mtfter,
- WILL fail on the ioth inlt.
(ice permitting) hashandfome accommodations
for paflengers. For freight or paflage apply to
the matter on borrd, at Bickley's wharf, above
Markct-ftrcet, or
N. J. Frazier,
No. 95, South Front-flreet.
Fehruarv 3. §
For Amiterdam,
I*** Tie Ship
FARMER,
John M'Collom, Matter j
K)V WILL fail in a fe»v days, the
part of her cargo being
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffve, or
paflage, apply to the matter on board, at Wal
nat-ftteet Wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is landing, out of the said Ship, from
Bourdeaux, and for sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter caflts
Claret in cases, of a f»perior <ji>alit-y
Fontiniac,
Santerne, > Wines in casts
Ltinille, J
Prunes in boxes
Novembe 24.
for Sale or Charter,
J®L GOODHOPE
il ■) Will carry about izoo barrels, and
£££22'» r « d y "take in a cargo. For terms
apply to
Pragers £ff Co.
Nn. ijr, South Second-ttreet.
Who have for sale —prime St. Croix Sugar
ttid Rum, Madera, Lifcon, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7. dtf
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captain Chisholm,
A new vettel, with excellent
for paflengers ;
Sails on the loth Deeember. For Freight or
Paflage, apply to ROSS & SIMSON.
Who hat to lifpofe a s .
A small invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
November 18. §
IN THE'PRESS,
AND SriEBILY WILL BE PUBLISHES,
(frui IS Cents J
Refle&ions on Monroe's View
or TUB CONDUCT Or THE IXECUTtrt,
As puMifhed in the
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
Under the signature «f
SCIPIO,
To which the commercial warfare of France is
traced to the French faflion in this country
as its fotirce, and the motives of the opposition
ta the measures of the United States are exposed.
Feb. 8. _
Boston Glass Manufa&ory.
THE citizens of the Unitrd States are hereby,
JL informed, that tl<c minufaibure of Window
-Glass is new coirmenced at the Glass House in
Bo(?on.
It is needlefi to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of the Bo(t»n Glass, as it is so well known
throughout the United States t» be in every rcf
r,t& greatly l'uperior ta any ever impprted from
Europe-
It will-be cut to ahy size commonly used ; and
may b» constantly had by applying to Ckawiet F.
Xvf/tr, at the Glaf» House.
Orders frrm the diflant Statestobe addrclfed to
Mr. Stmuel Gore, Court-drort, Boston.
£5" Twp or three ijooJ Glafi makers are want
ad at the above works ; such as can produce re
commi ndatio«s for good behaviar, may be fiire of
employ, by application to Mr. Gcirge L, Limit, at
flu. works. Men without families will be pre
ferred. . However unacquainted with the method
of r.aking Crown Window Ghft, they will meet
with th« fame sncouragement.
Bod on. January 16 1 —?»wftw
A Nurse's place wanted.
K WOM AN just tnivid from England, wants a
p'ace as a Nunc or attendant on the Gc.k, either an a
Oenilemao or Lady.—For fuitfetr intmjna'ion ar>ply
ai NV io, S«uib Fourth Aicet, near Afaike i'.ree»
lib.
PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY 14, 1798.
JUST RECEIVED,
AND FOR SALE, AT
W. Youno's Book-store,
Corner of Chcfnnt and Second ftre«ta,
f Prics JO Cents J
Causes qui fc font oppofees aux
Progrcs du commerce, entre I.A FKANCE et les
ETA'TS-UNIS de L'AMF.RIQIIE.
Avee les Moyens de l'accelerer ;
Et la comparaifon de la Dctte Nationale
de l'Angleterre, de la France, and des
ET ATS-UNIS.
In fix Lettres, addreflieet a MonfietirU Mar
quis se la Fayette. Traduitfur l'e Ma
nufcrit Anglais du Colonel SWAN, ancien
Membre de la Legiflaturc dela Republique
du MalTachuiTet.
1 Le Commerce eft la portion la plus importante des
(Richefles Nationales.
——LeTridentde Neptune, ell lefeeptreduiVJonde.
LIMIIRC,
Or causes that have been opposed to the
PROGRESS of ( OMMERCE botween
FRANCE md Ike UNITED STATES of AMERICA.
With the tneans of accelerating it;
And a comparison of the National Debts
cf England, France, and America.
In Six letters, directed to the Marquis
di la Fayette.
Tranflaced (into French from the original Eng
lifh Manufcri t of Col. Swan, formerly a Mem
ber of the Legifl.iture of Massachusetts.
Commerce i» the moil important portioa of the
Wealth of Nations.
The Trident of Neptune is the Sceptre of
the world. Lemiere.
AT a jundture when the question of
a Commercial Treaty zvitb France may l'oon
become an objeit of difcufiion, a work of this kind
becomes extremely u'elui to those citizens of the
United States, who may be dcfirons to enable them
feives to view this Aibjeft, under its various af
pe<sls ; and they will have the fatisfadion to be
furniftied with the neceflary data, to judge of the
ufeiulnefs of this tranfadion.
This work is principally distinguished by the
richnefsof the obfervarions, the pcrfpicuity of th«
i*'cas, and the modesty of the theory which it
contains. At Pars, a man of wit observed, that
this work was like a rich farmer's barn, heaped up
to the very roof with ufeful produce. It is addrcf
fed to the unfortunate La Favitte, in letters,
which fugitive form, the author who could only
devote a lew weeks ro this occupation, was obliged
to adopt. Although circumftaners are'in many
refpeds different at the present day, from what
they were in the year 1790, when these letters
were written, yet it may be justly said, that so ma
ny abfoluteand permanent data still remain, that
the ju'licious reader will not appreciate the work
lesson that account ; on the contrary, as many of
the alterations, which have been made, are the re
sult of the author's remarks, it will serve to con
vince him that in all tranfaAions, between free
nations, every thing may be cxpe&ed from the ef
forts of truth andjuflice.,
LETTER L
Qeneral view of tha obstacles, created in France,
to pi event the extension ol commerce, with the !
United Stat s—Obfervatiens made in a tour, takew !
for that express purpose, upon some French manu- !
fadures (a precious fragment- Examination
and icfutation of the prejudices (lifting in France,
against the quality of certain productions of the
United States, and against the advantages of their
importation—Demonrtration of th« bad policy of
1 kying duties ®n their importation, principally on
provilions in general, and on fait provisions, and ;
fi(h in pa ticuiar—C'onfiderations onthe regulations
of the French cu£om-houfes.
I LETTER U.
[ Obflaclcs to the extension of trade with France,
piocecdii.g from circumstances and individuals in
the United States— Proofs tha: these obstacles are
only temporary and will be removed (they have
been removed) by time and the wisdom of govern
ment—Hillory of the influence of the American
paper money—lmportant principles abftrad
considerations on money and circulation—Causes
of the (lagnation of American trade, after the
peace—Critical examination of French im
ported into America, and extraordinary condud
of the French merchants—Effeds of good com
mercial laws; and patriotic wifhe»on this fubjed—
Observations on money, weigh;* and mrafures.
( LETTER 111.
Essay in the form <>f a taMuu, to appraifc the im
poitations into the United Stalesfr»m France and Eng
land un ted. '1 he author examines at each article,
whether it can be better fumifhed fr«m France or
England—lt is principally on this fubjed (which
would have altonilhed a mete thcoriil) that the author
appears to evince great commercial experience. These
kinj of tableaux, uuluckily as difficult to obtain as
they are much to be defned, are the only sure guides
the fiatefman can take for tht policy of treaties de
prived of which he is continually deceiving or decei.
ved. Wecnnottoo much admire the apparent ex
adnefs of colonel Swan's calculations ; and al.hough
the prophesies of Lord Sheffield have already been
comradi&ed by experience, and by fevcrai able pens,
yet it is curious to fee the author of the preleot work,
| dispute with him the only ground on Which he has
; tioLbeen hitherto attacked, by proving that France,
unaer the required condition, will he better able
than Great Britain to supply us with several articles,
t which the tnglifti author allots exclusively and forev
er to the latter; the author's patriality tjfcft on (if he
has a docs not appear to have at any time created
a partiality of judgment. Ihe result of this calculaiioa
is that in <789, that it to fay, at a period when arts
and manufactures did »ot present in France the vatt
means and probability of extension which they now
poflVfs. that even in 1789, it was prefumablc, that
France would not only have the means to supply one
half of any given quanti y of the productions of France
and / njland united, but also to enter into competition
with Great Britain for the remainder, in proportion
to the wisdom of her government, and the industry
of her inhabitants.
LETTER IV.
Calculaiion of the exportation of the United States,
and particular examination of their fuiiablenefs to
France ; this is one reason why, notwithftandmg the
excellent work of Mr. Tench Coxe, Mr. Swan's ta
bleau is by no means fupeifluous . the principle of the
advantages which wou.d result to France irom the
importation cf provisions and raw materials, is every
where applied ; and it is upon this argument, ihrft"
the author establishes his demands to the French go
vernment, for the limited admiifion of the produc
tions ot his country into France,
LEJTER V.
Tableau, of the debt of the United States at that
time—Opinions of the author on the finances, on rfce
etfefts ot national debt, on circulation, ike. as more
amply detailed in his National Arithmetic printed at
Boston in the year 1785 ; the whole calculated to
ftrengihrn in France, the pubi c ar.i pri.vaic credit
•f the United States—the happy condition of Ameri.
ca, and the milmes arising from the public debt in
Europe, are contrasted in the ablcft manner, and un
der the raoft striking rcla ivns, by very cu ious cal
culationt—Oblervatisns on the wisdom and economy
which preftde over the public expenfet in Massachu
setts. In ti>is place the patriotism of the author ap
pears, with all tfcc elevation whichajuft National
By John Fenno, N°' 119 Chefnut, Street
pride inlpnes- The ancient governments of Ku<ope.
fays he, will learn from us the art of economy in
recompensing the fer vices which ihc country -receive*.;
Among (I us it tuitt be fcen, that mtn art cjujtn for places,
and hot pvtti for men. This leuer conduo » wi h a
general view ol the public property, depohted in the
hands of the government of the United State*.
LETTER V,I
General examination of the defedt of the commer
cial policy of France with refpe& 'O the United States;
many of these observations have produced the effeds
for which they -were intended, others ft ill remain,
pointing out the reforms to be made in future, as a
good chart marks the fhoaJs and locjts. The author
concludes his Vork, by fixing his attention on bis
country, and the great men who have tendered it il
luftiious. and we takes plea Cure in quoting what he
fays of the present chief of our government. 'Jo
praise a man when he cicrcifcs a dithitguifhed cm
pioyment, U common, and may be taken for flattery ;
but whilst lie is in private life, it is the homage of
fmcerity.
Note, page 316 of the work,
* Les habitans des Ltats-unis, fuivant dans leur
choix le bien public, 6c excites par ua principe de
reconnoiflancc, choiGrent M. John Adams pour vice
prefident du nouveau congrej. Ses efforts, pour pre
server le peuple des intrigues formees par ie gouv
frnement Anglais contre fa liberie, le rendirent tres
fufpeft a ceux qui etoient en pouvoir. Le peuple,
convaincu de son merite, le choifijt pour un de fes
teprefentaris dans le premier congrcs. De ce nombra
etoit aufli M Samuel Adams, patriotc audi intrepidc,
qu'inlatigable. La revolution Americaine doit beau -
coup a la perseverance dc fes travaux, &rafestalens
diftinges. Ceux que M. John Adams a develoypei
dans le traite de paix, qui s'eft fait a "Paris en 1783,
ont prouve qu'il etoit miniftre aufli habile que grand
po itique. Jit dans son ouvrage fur 1a defeafe de la
conftitgtion Americaine, il a mootae toutes lescan
noiflances qui ferment les vrais junfeonkrhes & les
hommesde I i; connoiffances necellairri, pour rem
plir honorablemmt les fonttiom de p*efident du lenat
des K'ats-unis.
House and Lots, in Bordeniown.
TO BE SOLD, a handsome two story House,
with the Lut on which i! is erefted, iituat
ed about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
Village of Bordtmovrn. The house is forty
two feet in front, and in neat order. lot
contains one acre, and is one hundred feet on
the main street, and extends with the fame
breadth to back llreet. Alio, a large Lot, con
taining nearly four acres, separated from the
former by back street. One third only of the
purchase money will be required upon txecut
mg a deed, ar.d for the remainder, such credit
w II be give* as the purchaser may chufe. This
property will be fold free of all incumbrances,
and an indisputable title given.
For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnes, residing in Uordentown, near
the prtmifes, who will <hrw the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, No. 144, Market-street.
OrcemUer -a. jawtf
Jr'jiiiccton—isew-Jerjey.
To be Sold,
THAT neat and convenient House in whirh
the late Mrs Ann Witherfp >on, now Mrs.
Ann Walker lived ; together with all the ap
purtenances. The house is two stories high*,
of frame work and pointed. There are four
voomi and an entry on the lower floor, and fiv«
rooms on the second floor. The cellars are
dry, and the garret fpecioui—The back yard
is paved with Hones. In it area well of excel
lent water, an oven, a smoke house, and house
for alhes—and behind it a carriage house, hay
loft, grai'ery, and convenient (tables, with four
flails for horses, and four for neat cattle. The
lot is 60 feet wide upon the street, and 154 feet
deep, fbmew'nat more than half of which is
made into a kitchen garden of an excellent foil.
For terms, which will be made very reafon
ab!e, apply to the reverend
Samuel S. Smith.
January 19. aa*4w
For lale or to be let on ground
rent,
/! valuable Lot of Ground I
SITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth flreefs, fronting the State-
He use square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
en Walnut street, and .me buudred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street; there are at
present two small two story br.,ik houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Alfa, for Sa/e,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient ftorcs, wharf, &c. fituatcon
Water street, between Mulberry an 1 Saflafras
Street", containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. Thcfe houses
have the convenience of a public alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and area very defirablefit
uation for a a merchant, flour faflor, or others
who may have occasion for ftonage of goods.
This property will be fold on very reasonable
terms for rash. For further information apply
to the printer.
July 31. mScwtf
To Cabinet Makers, Joinejs, &c.
Cavanagh & Hearn,
Pine street, near the New-M»rket,
RETURN thanks to their friends and the
public, for their liberal encouragement,
and hope, hy their unremuingr attention, to
merit a continuance of their favors. The part -
nerfhip between them and Joseph B.Barry, has
been difiolved by mutual consent. Cavanagh
and Hearn havejuft received a quantity of St.
Domingo and Honduras Mahogony, wnich they
intend to fell 011 very reasonable terms for caJh.
Orders from the country molt punctually tjt«
cuted. Vincers of all kinds cut a* ulual.
Jan. 15. iaW4W
IN THE PRESS, ~
And speedily will be Pullijhtd,
tor the benefit of the
MARINE SOCIETY of the UNITED STATES,
A general plan and system of Regulations therein :
IVritttn atSSet* t in the year 1794 *
And now printed
BY THE AUTHOR.
" A navy womld be maintained but an almc.ft
ufelef* purpefe which taking the seamen kept the
merchantmen idle in port, and trading vefftls
would be as unprofitable employed, if they took
all thofefeanaen whofeflcilland eoarageon beard ships
of vrar, would giva them pr tedtion and secure
their fafety. We hav« enough for both purpofies,
and the cultivatinp; hand ®f attention alone is want
ing; to multiply their number. " M»ney may buy
M all naval stores, except mariners; but, uuief* a
" supply of them i? prefervei, no w#aith will be
" able to procure tha«."
• February 7. %
Bank of Pennsylvania.
AT a meeting of the Stockholders, held at the
B-nk on Friday, the ad February, 1795, pursu
ant tO'puhlrc notice*—
On motion, Refojved, That, this reacting be
ing imprefled with a due sense of the extraordina
ry fcrvicrs and'attend on M. Fox, Esq.
Preftdcnt of this Bank, in the execution of the du
ties of his ofHre ; which have been much increas
ed by the peculiar situation of the inftitu'ion, at
the period of his appointment; and ly the diffi
culties occifioned in consequence of t4ie recent ca
lamity in this city a committee of three gentle
men be apnointed.to prepare a piece of Plata, of a
value not exceedingfiva hundred dollars, with suit
able emblems and devices, to be prefjnted to Mr.
Fox, in the nan>« of the Stockholders, as an evi
dence of the high sense they entertain of his late
official fervicas.
William T. Smith, Peter WikofF, and Charles
Biddlc, Efqrs. were appointed a commitcee for th*
above purpose.
Ordered, that the preceding resolution be pub
lished.
Eiurad from the minnteg.
WILLIAM T. SMITH,
Chairman.
Attejl—John Sitgreaves, Secretary.
Frejh Fruit.
To-morrowr mainirig will be landed, at
Morris't Wharf, just above the Draw
bridge, the cargo of the schooner Frede
rickfburg Packet, Captain Pearee from
Malaga, viz.
Bloom Raisins in kegs
Do. Do. in boxes
Mufcatd do. in do.
Figs in k.'gs
Almond kernels in casks and boxes
Soft fhell'd almonds in sacks
Prunes in boxe«
Grapes in jars -
Anchovies in kegs, &c.
The whole of the articles shipped as of the fir ft
qualities.
For Sale by
Peter Kuhn.
February 5 du
The cargo of the Weft-Indian from
Jamaica,landing atSouth Street wharf,
136 hhds. and 300 barrels choice Coffee
98 Hhds of prime Sugar
29 Hhds. of Rum.
For sale By
Peter Blight.
WHO ALSO OEFERS FC & SALS,
500,000 Lbs of Java Coffee
800 Bigs do. Sugar
Cloves and mace in boxes
A quantity of Hifpaniola Cocoa
Ked P*rtWinein pipes and hogsheads
Madeira do. in pipes
February 6 d2weotm
Prison Manufactory.
FOR SALE,
At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of allfizes, from 3dy to aody
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and card Tacka
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakers and Sadlers Thread
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and hea.l Hones, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms, slabs, facia, window heaJs, fills, c .
All which may he had on rcafonable terms.
Shoes made and Weaving done at feid Prison at
! a price.
Orders from a ditance, dire&ed to Daniel Tho
mas, agent tor the pa*fon, will be attended to.
December 26 wth6m
Just Published,
And to be had at-the Booli-rtores of MefTrs. Dob
son, Cawpbell, Young and Ormrod,
in Philadeiphi?,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Causes and Cure of Remitting or Bilious
Fevers.
To ivhicb it annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinion's and practice of
different authors: and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interesting f'a»fts and refle&ious relative to
the Synoclus Ifleroides, or Yellow Fever, which
has occasioned so much distress and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the seaport
towns of the United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felow of ths Philadelphia College of l hyf'cians,
and Member of the American Philosophical'So-
Feb. I—*/tm§
COLUMBIA HOUSE ~~
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GUOOMBRiDGK with much pleaf
ureand rsfpeifl, returns htT sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
she has received during four years rtfideuoe in
Philadelphia; and aflurej her friends and ihe
public, so far from intending to decline her,
school, file has made a fupenor arrangement for
the more convenient accemmodition of her
scholars. —Every branch of ufrful and polite
education is particularly attended by Mrs.
Groombridge and matters excelling in Hieir
refpe<flive profefQoni.
Corner ef Spruce and Eleventh Streeti.
June sth, 1 797. $ imftf
Th« filsation is perfeiflly healthy : ar.d made
more agreeable by an extensive garden aad lot
of ground adjoining the house.
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the aoth
inft. Tickets for Sale in thi* Lottery, at
Seven Dollars y at Wll. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-street
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollars, where check books are kept lor register
ing and examining in these, the City ©I Waffling
ton, No. 11.and Pattvrfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in mofttof the Lotte
ries authorised by law in 3ny of the states of the
Union.
N. B. The befmefsof a Broker, inbuyingand
felling ail kinds of Pu!*!ic Stock, and Securitiee,
difcoanting Bills and Notes of Hand, file of
Lands, Houies, &e. &c. will be duly attended to,
by WM. BLACKiJURN.
November 15. S '
For Sale,
The time of a yo'Jiig Mulatto Girl, about
twelve years aid, has about eleven years to serve.
She is very capable of taking care of a child,
and tinderiiands house work. Enquire at Ko.
97, North jth lireet.
Jan. it. \r
FOR SALE,
by the svjbsCKlUisks, No. si, Penn-ftreet*
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges, *
John Green, commander, from Bengal,
' CtrJ'Jiing of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Coflaes I'unjum Cloths
Sanahs Guezey do.
Hutnhums Charcoana Dorea
Ulue Clrth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes MulmtiU
Mamoodys Checks
Maharagonges Patna Hkfs.
Ginghams Mulmul do.
Guzzenas B.indannoej
Guirahj Siflerfoy
Piniafcoes Cftopp* Romals
Sjlpatchyi Sooty do.
GiJlie komals Pernans of Tariout col.
Meek Pulicats
aoo tons SUGAR
9®,a00 lb. PEPPER.
Willings Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are pow open to sale at that
commodious fiore the north weft corner of
Market and FouVth-Aceets.
Alfu—A few Bales of Madrafc Hkfs. of eU
gant patterns and best colosrs.
February 8. dtf
FOR SALE,
By WHARTON & LEWIS,
No 115 South Front Street.
A quantity of Tanner's Oil,
4th proot Jamaica Rum, ") entitled to
lit and zd proof Brandy, J drawback.
Madeiia VVune,
Juniper Berries, &c.
- eodtf
67. Croix Sugars.
if> hegfheads bell ST. CKOIX SUGAR,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN NIXON & Co.
Feb. J. ftn&wtf
Wanted,
An adive, cleanly, induflrious woman to eoa)c
a/id do the business of the kftchen. Such a one
will be allowed good wages, and no other need ap
ply-—Enquire of thi Printer.
February 7
WANTED
A young Gentleman to go
Do&or ot a Ship 10 the Eaft-Indics.
Enquiie at No. e 5 Do k Street.
Feb - 6 - dtw
Ran a'way from the Subfcribcr,
On the 24th January iall,
A Black Woman, named Zelime.
CHE is of a middling sized flatUrc, thick lips,
kj marked with the small pox in the face—Sha
carried oif a ! un.i L: of linen with her. Whoever
takes her up and brii:gs her to the fubferiber, at
No. 181, Arch-ftrcet, corner of Fourth-ftrett,
ihall receive two Dollars reward.
J. LAZELLES.
N.B. Whoever harbor* Lid Girl alter this no
tice, (hall be prosecuted to the fevtrity of the law,
February 10.
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands sgainft
the ettate of WILLIAM COMPTON, lat
of the city of Philadelphia, dec.afld, are requtf.
ted to furnifh their accounts, duly attained. An(J
thofc who are indebted to fiici elt.it-, are earnuftly
solicited to make immediate payment, to either of
the fubferibers.
Iftinc Calhrall, ~l
John Haivorth, S A.dminiftrator»,
Samuel IVilcox. J
January 27. ws 4 w
notice.
A LI, perf.H.s indebted to the estate of Peter Gill
late of the Diftriil of Soathwark, deecaftd,
are rcquefted to make immediate paymentto either
of the Subfcribcr*; and thofc who have any de
mands agaiuft faideflate, are rtqueAed to brine in
their ac.uuntsdnly attefled. to
John Murphy, ")
Peter Scrav,ndyke, I Execu "
Thomas Farrell, J tor5 '
_ January 16. 'awaw 4 w
Lately Published,
And to. be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, carnejof
Second and Chefcut streets,
( Price 3-8 tbi of a 3 dollar J
Observations on certain Decuments
Contained in No. V and VI of
" The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the ciiAßot ol spec»iatioh aeainft
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the Treasury, is FIJI LY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.
1 his publication presents a concifc (latemtnt of
the bafj meacs praflifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to afperle the character* cf thole
persons who are coniidered as hoflile their difor--
ganizing schemes. It also contains the correspon
dence between Mr. Hamilton and Meflrs. Monroe,
Muhlenburg and Venable, on the fubjeS of the
documents aforefaid, and a series of letters from
James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Hamilton,
proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt, that th»
eonmdlion between him and Reynolds was the re
sult of a darinjf conspiracy on the part of the tas
ter and his allociates is extort money.
A difconnt of one third from the retail
price will be made in favor «f wholesale purcha
i'crs, for CASH. Orders to be addressed to Mr.
Youno.
February 9.
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DRY GOOD S.
f Forenoon —Edward Fox, No. $6,
Mottdrt ' Front-street,
Afternoon—Footman & Co. Ne. 65
( South Front-street.
('•Forenoon —John Connelly,'Old Citv
TaWJytmJ Aaiflion, No. 73 fouA Front-street.
' Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C. 18 ? High-ftrsef.
mw v S N> '»
rr, r , C Forenoon—Foward Fox.
Thursday ( Aftcrnoon _ (l ConHtl^.
FrjJa, j Forenoon— Will, a» Shannon.
S Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Benfon,
[Volume XIIIcQKGR £ $ $.
r ._ nc
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
n<
Or.DATJt OK .Tl*E RfPOfcT OF TH| COMMITTEE
Of PRIVILECIi.
cc
F R IDA Y FEBRUARY 9.
( Continued Jrtm ytJienUy t GaxttU.) b]
The queftioo on the refolutien as amend- w
ed was abo«t to be put ; when w
Mr. Gallatin said, he knew how late e<
in the day it was, and therefore his remarks w
(hould not be lohg; bat, as he cpnfidered v
there was a point of view in which the sub- 01
jest had not bren placed, he wished to far
a few words before thequeftion was taken. 'f
Ob the faft itfelf, he had no remark to
make; the evidence was direst, and all could
draw their inferences from it. Nor did he £
e6nfider it very material, whether the iufult
arose from provocation, or not, because he
did not think that any provocation could
juftify an indecency of that nature. But 0
it appeared to him that gentlemen who ex- P
pressed so much sensibility on the occasion, j"*
had confined themselves wholly to the inde
cency committed within the walls of the
bouse, without taking any notice of the na- 0
ture of the punishment proposed to be in- f
Aided. It was on that part of the fubjeft, 11
and on that alone, he meant to make some f
sbfervatioos. J®
Our government, he said, was a govern
ment by representation. The people of (he n
United States had not vested power with a ll
fparinghand ; they had given all out e
of their handfc, but they had guarded against d
nbufe of it. T ev had said, this pow
er (hall not be exerciftd but by persons ap- F
painted by ourselves. This being the cafe, ''
said Mr. G. we, the representatives of the J
pct.ple, have only a limited power over in
dividual representatives in our tody. It is
true, the Constitution has given us thepow- 1
er of expulsion, but under as much caut'wn 1
as power could be given. It is guarded by
making it «eceffary to have a vote of two
thirds of the members present—the frme
caution which was laid upon the Senate with 1
refpeft to treaties. He conceived that the
power of expulsion had not been given for
tile piirpofe of indalging our sensibility ; for
the purpose of impairing the principle of
representation, but for the purpose of enforc
ing that principle ; and two cases might ex
ist in which the power of expulsion lodged j
in that house might be considered as a fafe
guard to the principle of representation. —
These two cases were, when the house dif
(rovered a person to be difqualified by Come
infamous conduct from voting, and when a
member pertinaciously interrupted and pre
vented public business from being carried on.
As to t>_" firft cafe, he could not suppose
that any man would ever be sent to that
hotife, who had heen guilty of any crime J
that would difqualify him from holding Iws
feat, if the people who sent him knew it at
the time; but if any such crime (hould be
afterwards committed, or be discovered to
have been heretofore committed, then the
house has a right to expel and fesd such a
member back to his conftituepts. The pre
sent cafe, every oae will allow,does not come
within this rule. The charge against the
member from Vermont, is a grots indecen
cy, which (hews the want of good manners
—;> want of good breeding. There could
be no doubt the aft washighly indecent; but
it did not (hew a corruption of heart. It
may diftjuaUfy him from associating with
fotn gentlemen on this floor; btft fait' Mr.
G- we do not come here to associate as indi
viduals, but to deliberate upon legislative
ful jests in our representative capacity. We
may, if we plcafe, associate together, ov wo
may let it alone. He did net think himielf
compelled to associate with any member of
this house whose. society he did not iike
This wasnot then one of thofecafes which
dTfcoveted a cor. option of heart, that would
#ifqualify a n*n from giving a vote on a le
giluive fubiert, though it might (hew the
per n'tc bf (qualified for polite society.
He would goo* to the other cafe, which
was ;ki to be a good reason for expulsion.
He allowed that cases might exist, in which
a man might so far pertift in interrupting the
public business of that house, by his disor
derly behavior, as to render it necessary, in I
order that the business might proceed, that
he ftiould be expelled. This led him to en
quire whether this was the cafe under con
federation, and whtther the house had been
interrupted by the aft in question.
When Be put qiieftions to the witnesses
in relation to the order of the house, at the
time the aft complained of took place, he
did it not with a view of lessening the of
fenceitfclf. He did not mean to enquire
•whether the member from Vermont had com
mitted a left degree of indecency, bccaufe
the house was in one situation than it would
have been if it had been in another ; but
his objeft was to (hew, that the public bu
siness bad not been interrupted, and that
the house was in a situation in which it could
not have been interrupted. It was true the
speaker had, in the morning, taken the
chair, and the house had not adjourned ;
but it must also be allowed, that the house
was not at that time organired. What was
the kufinefs before the house ? A commit
tee of two members were counting the votes
for managers of an impeachment. Were
they interrupted ; or could they be inter
rupted by an incident of this kind ? He was
sure they were sot interrupted. If then
the public business was not interrupted, and
if the faft was rtot of that nature which
(hewed a corruption of heart, he did not
think it would be proper to expel the mem
ber from Vermont.
He saw, indeed, that it was unpleafaat
for some gentlemen to fit in the house with
the member from Vermont. He allowed
it was an evil; but what is the evil, he as
ked, on the other fide ? It is this—They
all knew that a new eleftion could not take
place in the state of Vermont for several
w««ks. H« remembered, fi«ra the con-
tested eleftion which wts formerly before th
the house from that state, that twelve days f;c
notice is requisite before writs can be issued; pi
a certain time would be required to bring be
the votes to the governor ; the necessary m<
notice, a new eleftion, afcertiining thjtre- th
turn, the notification to the member cleft- of
ed, ind the time necessary for his journey an
hither, would take up many weeks ; and th
by the laws of that state, if there be not a fr.
majority in the firft vote, a new eleftion ar
will be necessary ; so that it may be pretty to
certainly said, that if the present member hi
was expelled, one half of the state of Ver- A
mont would be deprived of a representation to
on that floor for the remainder of the feflion. th
And (hall we, said Mr. G. in order to grat- re
ify our fenfibijities, deptive one half of that a[
state, for a number of weeks, and perhaps w
for the whole feflion, of its representation ? b<
He was not willing to do so, and therefore b<
(hould vote against the resolution. ft
He knew that other gentlemen on that
floor had as great regard for the principle m
of representation as he ; therefore, he sup- j 1"
posed, they had considered this fubjeft al- ei
ready, and made up their minds upon it. ' w
When he darted these re'afons he did not 'cl
doubt they had had weight upon the minds I t;
of other gentlemen. For his part, how- jI s
ever, he was more apprehensive of depriv- tl
ing Vet mont of its representation, than of c
any ether consideration arising from the sub- t<
jest. J
He thought genetlemen had laid too w
much ftreft 011 this indecency, as it affefted tl
the legislature of the United States. How- «
ever difa'greeable the aft was in itfelf, he si
did not think becaufa a member sent th«re ft
by the people of Vermont does an impro- h
per aft, that it could attach difgraee and b
indelible infamy to the house itfelf, nor did si
he fee how it could affeft any other person
besides the member from Vermont himfelf. c
Two members ,rising, though the quest
tion was loudly called for, the committee li
rose, by a small majority, and had leave to v
fit again, j'
< Y
MONDAY —FEBRUARY J2. c
The House having resolved itfelf info a Ceieimittee *
> of the Whole, on the Report of the Committee a
of Privileges, IVr. D»nt in the Chair, 1
Mr. Rut-ledge denied that any similar" c
outrage had ever been committed in that r
house like the present, though the gentle- t
man from Virginia had spoken of something a
analagous. It was true a challenge had t
been sent by a raember of the Senate to a e
member of that house ; but this was not at c
all comparable to the present offence. Mr. I
R. thought the punishment by expulsion, t
was the only punishment which could be a- !
dopted, bs nothing ftiort of it would be ef- I
fectUal. 1
Mr. Findley said, the question before t
the committee was a qweftion of indecency, j
and not of crime ; and he wifned, for the 1
fake of decency, so much had not been said 1
upon it. In forming the Constitution there '
had been a diftinftion made betwixt punish
ment and expulsion. Expulsion was evi- j
dently the highest punifiiment which the '
house could infiift, but 110 one could fay in- 1
decency was the highest crime. He never ]
understood, either at the time the Conftitu- j
tion was formed, or since, that expulsion 1
u<3 intended to be applied to any thing but 1
crimes—for what would be a fubjeft of im- 1
peachment ih other bodies, where impeach
ments '"could be brought. This was not,
therefore, an opinion formed upon the spur 1
of the occasion. Mr. F. said, he knew, of 1
an inllance of this kind which happened in
another legislative body, upon which a com
mittee was appointed to consider it, but
they never made report, but h«ld their de
cision in terrirem over the offending member.
He thoTTght, if a similar course had been ta
ken in this matter, it would have been pre
ferable t« spending so much time in debate
upon it.
Mr. Sewall rose to reply to what fell
from Mr. Gallatin en Friday, with refpeft
to the two cases which he pointed out, as
coming under the rule sot expulsion, and
referred to the law of Parliament in Eng
land, to (hew that his doftrine was ill found
ed. He said uo diftrift »f country ought
to have it in its power to fend a man amongst
them as a legislator for the United States,
who (hould be hateful to two thirds of the
house. The Constitution had defined no
particular cases in which the power of ex
pulsion (hould be exercised ; the house was
therefore left at liberty to use it according
to its (Jifcretioß: Atd if it were to be a
bused, instead of punishment it might be
come the higheji honour to the perfo* expel
led, as if the house were become so corrupt
tis to expel a person without just cause, it
knight people to a sense of the
necessity of changing ihei£ reprefentat'mei.—
Mr. S. said, it was a new doftrine that the
business of the house (hould aftually be in
terrupted, before a person (hould be deemed
an offender against its rules. It was neces
sary to look at the consequence of aftions,
j and referred to what might have been the
cafe if Mr. Grifwold had resented the af
\ front upon the spot. Mr. S. spoke of the
importance of this decision as a precedent;
[ and of the danger to be apprehended from
theconduftof Mr. Lyon in future, if the
present outrage was fuffered to pass with
s out exemplary punishment, and that it
would be necessary to come armed to the
'house in order to guard themselves against
t him.
Mr. fpake again upon this sub-
I jest. If the Imember from Vermont, was
not expelled, he fuppefed it would break
t up the present feflion, without d«ing any
butiaefs ; that it would divide the ftatcs a
gaiaft each other, aod finally end ia a civil
|t war.
Mr. Pinckniy said, in order to insure
j perfeft freedom of debate, it was necessary
j- to repress every perfenal violence in the firft
instance. In conlidering this question hp
confidered it as fixing a rule for their go
aj vernment in future, and he thought if it
were so considered, (ar.d no reference had to
the dil'pute which had produced the discus- ft
; (ion) there would be a pretty unanimous ob
; pinion that an offence of this kind ought to ,
; be punilhed by expulsion. He thought a a
■ member thus violently offending the rules of t!
the house, should. be immediately deprived h
■ of the p»werof.the people in that house,
r and it was on this ground that he moved for v
I the immediate commitment of the member t
i from Vermont to the care of the sergeant at h
i arms, when the offence was firlt made known t
r to the honfe, not anly for the feeurity of g
r his perfen, bui for immediate punilhment. t
- As the con£h't»tion gave the house a power i
i to expel a member for disorderly coiiduft he 1
. thought this cafe came clearly within the t
- rule. In some cases of offence, there might f
t appear mitigating circumstances, but there c
s was none in this. The conduct of the mem- t
?! ber fincc the tranfaftion was committed had o
e been such as to convince the house that he 1
felt no compunftion for what he had done. I 'J
t Mr. Livingston rose to intreat gentle- • c
e men, its they valued the refpeftability of the 1
i- ! House, the good opinion of their conftitu- : '
I- ■ ents, and the public Treasury, that they f
| would fuffer this bufmefs to come to a eon- i r
i clnfion. Their cosftituents, he was cer-• c
s ! tain, had long been tired of the difcuflion. '
•- i Nearly 20 days, which had cost as many i
| thousand dollars to the country, had been I
if | consumed in this bufmefs. Gentlemen rose '
i. to express their abhorrence of abuse, in abu- '
Jive terms, and their hatred of isdecent adts 1
0 with indecency. The simple question before ■ !
d the house was, what degree of punifhmeni '
r. was proper to be inflifted upon the member '
e from Vermont. [The Chairman informed
e Mr. L. he was mistaken in faying 20 day*
>- had been confnmed in this bufmefs; it had 1
d been before t!»e house only fourteen.] Mr. L. '
d {aid it was in a fair way for being twenty. 1
n Mr. Co it was sorry to hurt the feelings
of the gentleman latt up, by faying any '
f. thing on this fiibjeft, but having been con- 1
re fidered as as advocate of Mr. Lyon, he 1
.0 would makea few observations upon the sub- 1
jest. He did not himfelf think that this 1
vote ought to have been taken without dif- 1
cuflion. If, indeed, it had been necessary
to have enquired how does this man gener
8e ally vote, then no difcuflion wa* necessary;
but he could not corifider that this was the
ir' only enquiry necessary to be made. With
it refpeft to the faft, nothing need be said,
e- every one allowed it to be brutal, indecent
g and unmannerly. The constitution gave
id the house the power of expulsion for diford
a erly coudu&. It had been said, this difor
at der must be committed within the house; but
r. he found nothing of this iort in the confti
-11, tution. He had 110 doubt himfelf that the
a- House was in ftflion at the time. It had
f- been attempted to {hew that there was a pro
vocation for the offence; but an enquiry in
re to this matter turned wholly agaiuft the
y, gentleman from Vermont, as his previous a
le bufe of the whole representation of Connec
id ticut was a fuffieient ground for the retort
re which was drawn fiom his colleague. It
h- appeared, therefore, to him, that te retain
n- amongst them a man of this description,
be was to retain a man who would produce no
n- thing but disorder and confufion in their
er proceedings. Hisletter of apology did not
u- fay that this was a tranfaftion of heat, and
jn that he was sorry for it, but that he was for-
Jt ry the hsufe had thought it necessary to
n- take cognizance of it; and his defence be
ll- fore the committee of the whole, was far
't, from being contrite; it was, indeed, an at
ur tack upon the wrtneffes, in order to invali.
of date their testimony. He hoped the refol
in ution would be agreed to.
n- Mr. R. Williams rose and took notice
ut of the different arguments urged in favour of
e- the amendment. He denied that the corn
er. mittee ought to consider the confequencea to
a- which an aft might possibly lead; if so, an
*e- assault would, of course, be punilhed equally
.te with murder, as it might poflibly lead to it.
He did not think the house ought to inter
ell fere any further, than to prefcrve order and
ft decorum in its proceedings If a member
as of the house committed a crime, he was an
nd fwerable to the law* equally with any other
g- mas. Upon the whple, he conidered the
'd- proposed punilhment as disproportionate to
ht the offence, and should, therefore move an
sft amendment. [He then moved the amend
es, ment stated in yesterday's minute, confining
he the punishment to a reprimand by the Spea
n° ker in the face of the house.]
■x- Mr. Dayton (the Speaker) said the
■as length of the present debate had been com
ng plained of; but who, he asked, had firft
*" broke silence after the gentleman from Maf
3C" fachufetts (Mr. Thatcher) had expressed
el- his wi(h that the vote might be taken with
■P 1 but debate? It was the gentleman just fat
down; and now he had given the committee
he another .speech, and introduced a proposi
tion.calculated to produce further difcuflion.
: ' le He wishes the gentleman from Vermont to
in- he reprimanded by the Speaker. What
led could the Speaker fay to him? He could
ef- only fay, " Tou have done an aS -which would
ns » difgracc a blackguard, time and take your feat
the m the house ; you have in fulled us with words
*f" which Jbcw your defiance of us, but come and
ft with ut, and be our brother Legislator."
>t; Were these proper words to be addressed
om to the member ?The Speaker would sooner
the addrefi him in words of Thunder which
th- {hould drive him from his presence. Mr. D.
; then took notice of what fell from the gen
tle tleman from New-York with refpeft to the
inft lengthsf the present debate, which bethought
fully juflified by the importance of the fnb
"h- jest, and concluded by faying, that if there
(hould be found a majority in this house
«k i n favour of the amendment, he should be
any ashamed of having « feat in it.
I '■ Mr. Nicholas hoped the committee
;ivil would not be prevented from doing what it
thought propor, because there > might be a
u re difference betwixt the private •pinion «fthe
fiiry Speaker, and what he might be called upon
firft to do in his capacity as Speaker,
hf Mr. R. Williams denied that he was
go- the-firft wh« began the debate,
if it Mr. Dayton repeated that he was the
>d to firft whe brtke fileuce after the gtotlcman
fr«m Massachusetts had wiflicd the vote to r
- be taken without debate.
, ; Mr. R. Willimas said, that it would f;
1 appiar from the manner in which the gen- ii
f tleman had said he broke the silence, that he d
1 had begun the debate, which he did not. c
, Mr. W. said he was now more Ilrongly con- \
r vinced than ever of the impropriety of ex ii
r tending the power of expulsion, since hehad L
t heard the paflionate expreflions of the gen- ii
1 tleman from Ncw-Jerfy. Was this the lan, 'y
f f£ ua K e a J ut^£e •* wou onl y P a f 3 t
. the law upon the offender, but he would da t
r it with thunder and v .-f:gean«e. In his opin- \
e ion, Mr. W. said, eothing would tend more 1
e to difgracc the councils of America than
t such heated language as this. It was fuffi
e cient to induce the People to fay," we have
1- too much liberty—too much freedom of fpeech—
d our government is bad," and to be ready to \
c lay hold of any other that is offered to them j {
!-A sentiment of this kind tended .more to . c
. destroy the government than any thing he f
,e had heard. Gentlemen talk of heat in de- j <
i- bate ; but where did it come from ? Not 1
y ' from the gentlemen in opinion with him, 1
1- ; must be evident to every one. Whatever j
r. i opinion might beheld of his amendment, <
1. he thought it proper, and therefore made j
y it ; nor did he think it l-.beral in any man ; 1
n to treat it as it had been treated. Was it I
fe right to be told by a member, because he | 1
t . moved an amendment like the prefeut, that; 1
ts he {hould be ashamed to fit with him ? Was j
e ■ this what the public expedled to hear in its I
il legislative councils ? He believed not. He
:r thought it would d» no credit to him who
d uttered the sentiment.
r, Mr. Dayton said that the gentleman
d 1 from N. Carolina had mis-stated what he
j. had said in several instances ; but he did not
think it worth while to fct him right—it
s would be a wafte'of time and words. There
y was one thing he would notice, he called
him a Judge. *Was he n®t in committee of
ie the whole on this fußjtift ? Was he more
3. a judge than that gentleman ? [Mr. W
is offered to explain]. Mr. D. said the gen
s- tleman had already four times explained him
•y felf. If he had any thing more to fay to that
r- gentleman, it would be a little more poin
r; ted. He should fay what he pleased, and if
,e he chose he might call upon him in the house
:h or out of the house. a fide) \_A
J, loud cry far order welt heard. ] Mr. D. said
at he knew when he was in order,
ire The Chairman declared such language |
d- improper.
r- Mr. D. concluded by juftifying what he
ut had said as to the impropriety of theSpeak
:i- er'sreprimanding the piember from Vermont,
ie as the language of a majority he wa* afiured
ad would dirett him thus to speak, and he could
o- not be expected to use the fentim«nts of a
n- minority in his reprimand. He had stated
he the matter in a strong light, to {hew the ira
a- propriety of the measure ; and he meant to
c- appeal to the breast of every honorable gen
rt tleman whether the members of that house
It wouldconfent to fit in amity withfuch a man.
in Mr. Goodrich thought to have given
n, afilent vote on this fdbjeft ;but when a pro
-- position likethe present was brought forward
tir he could not refrain from delivering his fen
ot timents upon it. Mr. G. complained of
id the slanderous manner in which he and his
>r- colleagues had been treated by the gentle
to man from Vermont. Every one allowed
>e- some punishment was proper for the offene-
Far es of this member; they differed only as to
it- the proportion. For his part, he thought
ili. nothing short of expulsion would be fufßci
-0- ent; for it was evident from his conduft,
that a reprimand would not be confider«d by
Ice him a3 any punishment at all. He knew
of not how to account for the strange manner
m- in whieh he had conduced himfelf since he
to committed theinfult upon his colleague; ex
an cept, indeed he was persuaded, that d* what
lly he will, it was not in the power of the house
it. to expel him; that his friends would sup
er- port him. If this were his opinion, he hop
nd ed he would find himfelf miftake®.
jer Mr. Harper was strongly opposed to
in- the amendment. He was sorry to fee gen
»er tlemen.determined to support the msmber
:he from Vermont, at all events, rather than
to lose a vote «n favorite political queftiens.—
an The reprimand proposed, he was confident
id- would have no effe& upon him; betides it
ng was a puniftiment of the lightest kind which
ea- the house could inflift, and by no means pro
portioned to the highest poflible outrage. —
:he He corresponded in sentiment with the gen
m- tleman from New-Jersey with refpeft to
irft this amendment, and if it were approved
; a f- by a majority, he (hould feel ajhamed and
fed degraded at belonging to that house. If this
th- were the safe, every man who had any re
fat gard for his charafter, would make his e
tee scape from the polluted habitation, as such a
afi- vote would jittach dfgrace and infamy to the
an. house, because it was an old and true adage,
to "He who does not repel vile aßs, participates
hat it the infamy.
uld- Mr. Sitgriavss said, if this amend
uld ment prevailed(and he trusted it would not)
feat it could only be upon one of two confidera
rds tions ; both of which had been ftiggefted
2nd in the course of the debate, viz. the sup
' posed want of power in the house to expel
Ted a member for an offence of this kind, or that
ner the punishment is not proper for the offence,
ich Mr. S. went into a variety of arguments
D. to prove that both these objeftions were ill
en- founded, examined the different theories
the which had been laid down ai applicable to
g ht the power of expulsion given by the confti
nb- tution, endeavoured toprove that the offence
lere under consideration was of the highest mag.
mfe nitude, and that, therefore, it ought to be
be punished with the highest punishment which
the house has the power of inflifting, which
:tee is expulsion. A mere reprimand, he said,
it it was by no means, a proper punishment, it
be a was applied to offences of the lowed kind
the merely. Theft being his views of the fub
po» jest, he should vote agaiuft the amendment
and if it were to prevail, he {hould vote a
was g3inft the resolution itfelf ; for, so far from
such a measure securing them from future
the injuries, it would only encourage them;
nan He would, therefore, have nothing to do
with it, Gut leave every gentleman to pro
test his own honor. It will tVju br neces
sary for them, not only to bring learning and
information to Congress, but also a fufiicient
degree of flrength and courage, or if defici
cient in strength, arms for their defence:
With refpeft to ihe length of this difciiflion
it was wholly owing to that part of the
hoiife who declined to aft upon the business
immediately, but who chose to hav« the fub
jeft referred to a committee, and afterwards
to have the evidence before a committee of
the whole, and not to those who have al
ways been ready to adopt the mod prompt
measures.
(Debate to be continued.)
TUESDAY FEBRUARY 13.
Mr. Otis from the committte to whom
was referred that part of the Present's
speech which has relation to foreign Consul*
| direfted him to aflc leave »to be discharged
! from the consideration of that business, in
order that it might be referred to the com
: raittee of the whole to whom has beeri refer
| red the bill providing for the expences o(
! government for the year 1798,, as an item
! cauld be introduced into that bill without
■ going through the formalities of a bill for
; the purpose.
This motion was opposed by McfT. Gal
-1 latin and Nicholas, as they were not certain
' that the expences alluded to were auttiori
fed by law ; and if they were not, it would
be proper to authorise the expences, be
fore they appropriated money to pay them.
The motion was put and negatived, 37
to 33-
The meflage yesterday received from the
Prefideiit of the United States was read as
follows :
" Gentlemen of the Senate unci
Gentlemen of the house of representatives,
" In obedience to the /aw, I now present It
both houfts of congress, my "annuOi account of
expenditure frem the contingent fund, during
the year 1797, by which it appears, that on
th e firfl of January lajl, there remained in the
TreaJ'ury a balance of 15,494 dollars and 24
cents, fubjefi to fuiure dfpofilions of govern
ment.
JOHN ADAMS."
" United States, Feb. 12, 1798."
It was ordered to be printed.
A meflage received from the senate,
informing the house, tint they had pafleda
bill for the sale of lands in the North-wes
tern territory ; and that they had also pas
sed the bill for the relief of the refugees
from Canada and Nova-Scotia, with amend
ments.
Mr. Harper, from the committee of ways
and means, made a report in favor of ereft
ing a light-house in the harbor of George
town (S. C.) the Nieeeffary cefFion of the
foil having been made to the United States.
Referred to the committee of the whole to
\yhom has been referred the bill making ap
propriations for the support of government
for the year 1798 ; which bill afterwards
coming under consideration, an item was
introduced into it, providing for this ex
pence. *'
Mr. Coit reported a bill in addition to
an aft for promoting the progress of the
ufeful arts, which was committed for mon
day next.
The speaker laid before the house a letter
which had been received by the Clerk f.-om
thje legislature of Virgieia, inclofingan au
thorised copy of their agreement to the a
mendment proposed to the conftitutiop ref
pefting the suability of states. Ordered to
lie on the table.
Mr. Livingllon, from the committee of
■ commerce and manufaftures, reported a bill
for erefting a light-house on Eaton's Neek,
and for placing buoy 6 in the several places
; therein mentioned. Committed for Monday.
The fame gentleman also made a report
. on the petition of Sylyanus Crowell, mana
ging owner of three schooners employed in
the cod fifhery in the year 1796, but a fire
1 having destroyed the agreements between
■ the owner, matters and crews, he was pre
• vented from receiving the bounty allowed
1 by law. The committee finding there was
at lead prima facia evidenee of the faft, re
port favorably and recommend a bill for his
: relief, which report was concurred in by the
1 house.
Mr. Otis presented a petitiodMrom Moses
Gill, praying paylnent of the principal aad
interest of 840* dollars laid out in fix per
1 cent. Loan-Office Certificates iffhed by the
I state of Georgia during the war. Also the
1 petition of Elias Strong, praying to have
s remitted certain duties on fait destroyed by
fire at Boston. The former was referred to
the committee ef the whole to whom has
t bee* referred the report on the expediency
: of excepting certain claims from the op«raf
, tion of the limitation afts ; the latter to
r the committee of commerce and manufac
tures.
Mr. D. Foster, from the committee tf
) claims, made an unfavorable report on .the
- petition of John Jarvis, a soldier in the late
1 war, who prayed for compensation for da
- mages done to his property, which was coiir
1 curred inby the house.
t The Speaker said the business firft in or
. der was the unfinished business of (he bill
s providing for our istercourfe with foreign
!1 nations.
s Mr. Gallatin moved to postpone the u»-
3 finifhed business, for the purpose of taking
- vp the bill making appropriations for the
e support of government for the year 1798,
•- as government was at present drawiag me
e ney by way of anticipation. There
h also a report of the committee of claims,
h or the fubjeft of excepting certain claims
I, fiom the operation of the limitation afts,
t which he thought it would be well soon to
d aft upon, as tie delay of it, might induce
i- fpeculationj, whkh it would be better to
t prevent.
l- After some few objeftions to a poftpone
n ment of the unfinilhed bufinefi, it was, at
e length, agreed to postpone it for the pur
- pole of taking op the appropriation bill.
o The house aceordingly resolved itfelf iitoa committee of the whole on the-bill appro*
priating sos the support of government for
the year 1798, Dent in the chair ; and
after having agreed to the various items
therein contained, with little or no debate,
the committee rose, and the house concur
red in the amendments which had been a
greed to in the committee of the whole,
and the bill was ordered to be engrofled for
a third reading.
Mr. Sitgreaves hoped the house would
go into a committee of the whole, oil the
report of a feleft committee on the memo
rial of the people called quakers.
Mr. Rutledge wished this ftibjc£l might
be deferred till to-morrow, as he thought it
would be proper to introduce an amendment
into the report, which he was not at that
time prepared to make.
Mr. Sitgreaves consented.
Mr. Coit thought it was deflrable to in
troduce an amendment to the Handing rules
and orders ef the house. For this purpose
he proposed the following resolution:
" Resolved, that the following be added
to the Handing jules and orders of this house
" That no question (hall be taken up for re
eonfideration, when there (hall be a fmalkr
number of memhprs present, than were pre
sent when the original vote wes passed."
Agreed to, and refered to a committee
of five members.
Mr. D. Foster called for t\ie order of the
day on the bill for the relief of Oliver Pol
lock ; which being agreed to, the House re
folved'itfelf into a committee of the whole
•n this bill, and after some debate, it was
negatived 35 to 24. The committee rose,
when a motion was made to postpone the
further eonfideration of this bill, which mo
tion not appearing to be very acceptable
another motion was made to adjourn, which
wascarried by the calling vote of the Spea
ker, there being 37 to 37.
Adjourned.
ALBANY, February 6.
In the course of the debate in congress on the
Foreign Intercourse Bill, Mr. Nicholas, mem
ber from Virginia, declared, at his opinion,
" that peace with the French republic might
lave been secured, but that the executive hH
wantonly cafi it from us " Tis no matter how
plainly the oppofer»of the measures of govern
ment fprak out : they ne*tr have had their de
signs expose■! in the national house of rtprefen
tatives more fully than in/he course ef the de
bate inferred to ; and never have they appear
ed to have felt themselves more completely plac
ed on the " Jive footed bed," than it appears
they are by the decidtd and open language of
the fppporters of government on this occasion.
The gall of faction ha? descended in showers ;
but its contaminating eff*<9s will be retrenched,
as the cloven foot is more fully exhibited to the
public. Theexecutive to whom this said Ni
cholas alludes, as having " wantonly caj} peace
fom uj," is Georgi Washington : and the
mention of thisfaft is fufficient, without enter
ing into a detail of all the measures which have
been pursued to induce the French to a<3 with
jufiice towards us ; a detail which could make
no other impreflion upon the public mind than
that the political guardians of this country had
done every thing ia their power to preserve to
us the bleflings of peace, short of a total Sacri
fice of our independence*
A just sense of the evils of war, might operate
with government, (if it should eventually prove
that all measures hitherto adopted have been
ineffectual,) to fend three or even fix more en
voys to France, if it could be af/ertaincd that
such additional humiliation would fecurt, on the
part of the French, a refpeil for our property
and rights hut the fending a score of envoys
would not fatisfy our jacobins —nor would any
propAfitions they could make, short of a surren
der of our sovereignty to the ruling powers in
France, probably be considered as meriting at
tention.
When an envoy was sent from this country
to obtain an adjuftraent of our ifferences with
England, and to claim redress for the depredl
tions upon our commerce, he was received With
politeness, and reereft promised ; thole prom
ife. in many iuftances have been fulfilled ; and
if credit can be given to our agents in F.ngland
the courts of justice there are proceeding to a
ward retribution for property illegally captured
as faft as the necefTary proofs are exhibited.
Not only previous to, but during the course of
\he negociation, the whole vocabulary of oppro
brium was ransacked by our modejldemocrats for
epithets to apply to the English. A citizen ot
the firft refpeiftability in this country was sent
to France to endeavour to establish a good undr*
(landing between that nation and America ;
and how was he treated ? With nogleit and ig
nominy Three commissioners have been, since
that period, sent to make another effort ; and.
at the last dates, they were not received : and
now, beeavife the tyrants of Franee are charact
erized as they ought to be, the blood r,f our
" patriot}" is all in foam. What a confident,
country-loving, country-refpedling set of beings
are the American Jacobins !
BALTIMORE, February 9.
Atla meeting of the president and dire&ors
•f the Bask of the United States, on the 6th of
Febaiiary 1798, the undermentioned gentlemen
were duly elefled directors of the office of dis
count and deposit in Baltimore :
Archibald Campbell, Adrian Valck, George
Sears, Samuel Hollingfworth, Joseph Thorn
burgh, A qui la Brown, 'jun. Richard Gittings,
John Swan, John Pleafants, Mark P:ingle,
Hugh Thompson, William Duguid, Christopher
Johnftom *
Bafkenridge—for falc
IT consists of 910 acres, almofl all of which it
a fine rich Meadow, (the residence of the late
Kerl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which arc bounded on the
East by the river Paiaick.
Th-r' are on it a number of buildings, forming
a square of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
is a very convenient one, and.a fmallexpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard conufli of 1500 fins bearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is en other parts of said
trad near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great
varie'y of other fruits r particularly Cherries of the
heft and not delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exoties and
ForeflTrees, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its situation is abeut 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth -. 10 do.
from Monis-Town, and I a from Springfield—lt
it wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in cafli, on delivery of the deeds. Pleafc to en
quire of T. McEUEN 5c Co.
Mo. 78, Chefrut treet.
February 9r- eodtf
(Etasettc*
PHILADELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, FEBRUART 14.
Appointments—By Authority.
Thomas Appleton, Maflachu
fetts, to be Consul of the United States at
Leghorn—vice Philip Feliechy, Esq.
Lucius Horatio Stockton, of
New-Jersey, to be Attorney of the United
States—vice Abraham Ogden, Esq. dcceafcd.
/ft a meeting of a number of the Citizens of the
city and county of Philadelphia, at Ogden's
'Tavern, on Tucflay, 13th February, 1798,
it nuas unanimously resolved.
To support Benjamin R. Morgan,
at the ensuing Eleftion, as Senator for the
Diftrift, composed of the city and connty
of Philadelphia, and county of Delaware.
LAWRENCE SECKEL, Chairman,
M. KsrFELE, Secretary.
At a meeting of a number of the citizens
of Philadelphia, the Diftrift of Southwark,
and the Northern Liberties, at Mr. Dun
woody's tavern, for the purpose of nomina
ting a Candidate to be supported at the en
suing Eleftion, the following resolution was
unanimously adopted :
Resolved, That being fully imprefled with
a sense of the talents and integrity of Ben
jamin R: Morgan, his services in public
life, and his attachment to tin; laws and con
flitution of his country, the meeting do re
commend him to their fellow-citizens as a
proper person to be eledtd a Senator for
this diffricl, and will individually give him
all the support in their power.
Joseph CoVphthwait,
Chairman.
Wm. Clifton, Jun.
Feb. 12. - Secretary.
It would be well for those naturalized ci
tizens who intend to vote at the ensuing e
leftioDofSenatorto lake out theircertificates.
" If thy right rye nff nd thee, pluck it out." fayt
cfte Bible 'ut fh' Bjiile points out a course oco i-
I ifuil illy adapted to the evil propenfiti s of Jaco
bins Hence we have fee* the value of :■ vote
counter balance in their eyet, all confi ( e-.ition« of
policy, juSice, and regard for national honor.
On Saturday morning departed this life, as
ter a lingering indisposition, which he bore with
rhriftian fortitude, Colonel William Will,
in the J6th year of his age ; a native of the ci
ty ofNieuwidt in Germany, and on Monday
his remains were interred ia the burial ground
of the German reformed congregation, attend
ed by the members of the German incorporated
society, and a very large number of refpedlable
citizens.
' ' " |
A letter from Reedy-lfland, mentions the de
parture of a number of outward bound vefTels
on Monday morning, with a fair wind.
ANOTHER TRUTH.
Agreeably to a statement made by Hercules
Courtney, President of the Maryland Infurartce
Company—of payments made for lofTes from
captures, it is stated, that by the British there
has been captured, between the ifl June, 1795,
and the 17th Dec. 1797, to the amount of
dollars 93,639 —11
By the French, ditto 108,775—51
MR. FEN NO,
As t<wo thirds of the repreferttatfves did not
think, it proper to expel the offending member,
left hie conflituents fh uld thereby have been
d prived of a vote in the national legislature, and
as something mufi he done to preserve the dig
nity of the house, it :s we !«a n, proposed to
order h-ni to fit alone b n hind the Speaker, during
'his feflinn of Congress—And that he fhill bl
under the pi ote«sf ion 01 the b»>ufrv to prevent a
ny gentleman from takirg nriv te satis aflion
/■•r the persona ahafe he hi. offered. This
measure seems wei ealr'.iated to pieferve er
der, and to prevent future idifllculties.
MR. FENNO,
A number of Irifbmen, took the oath of
naturalization in the court of Nisi prius to
day, the law requires the oath of a man of
known good cKara&er to the fatiiifatHon of
the court, that the person taking the oath
of citizenfliip is of good moral character,
and well attached to the conflitution of the
United States; it is asked, has the honora
ble c«irt taken pain* to fatisfy themfelTes
on this head.
February. 13.
WASHINGTON L O TT ER T, —No. IT.
List of Prizes and Blanks.
160 th Day's Drawing—January 18.
4966 9 \ H C°tSOOOI
No. Dols. No. Dols. No. Dols. No. Dots.
154 11310 1470J 38684 x
985 x ji* a 6079 x 39573
1041 6rj 459 ao 40176
438 884 '943 x Bzo
994 11411 956 x 881
*ss* '3556 * *7148 x 986
804 151*9 18731 41081 x
3186 x 155' X 1Q044 x 116 x
3*4 3*4 30187 456
4001 591 418 505 500
*57 *0 714 x 31399 736 x
656 16058 10 31101 849
805 124 444 x 930 x
S°6o 545 >489 41444
1 59 18013 x $79 860
•177 x 071 759 890 »0
33* *SI 9°* 983 x
6cß x 947 10 13069 x 43031
991 10 973 136 131
6197 x 19418 607 481
735 * 431 J4119 618 x
6'4 773 357 *5 661
71ij x *OIBO x 515 755 x
A' 7 HOO3 35m x 817
536 *53 19° 44H4
*s9' *57 J75 43693
711 487 <>44 x 47036
885 939 680 136
9010 32131 x 3*m 398
411 too 280 289 859
597 676 345 48489
616 x 939 x 603 494 x
10512 x 23656 872 x 961 x
601 x 24074 x 37319 961
816 x 291 »o 825 49711
843 X 418 x 38014 x 766
11140 4 SI 503
666 x 570 x
PRICE OF STOCKS."
Philadelphia, Feb. 3. 1798.
Six Per Cent. 16/8
; Three per Ort. iq/"}
Defc-red ft per Cent. ij/o
j BANK United States, 90
'ennfvlvailia, per cent.
—— North America, 50 per cent.
Insurance Co. Pennsylvania, ao
N. A shares 41 dividend off.
By this day.'s Mail.
NEW-YORK, February 13.
IMPORTANT and SAI IS FACTORY.
By a gentlaman of refpeftability, and .of
this City, arrived ycfterday, in 18 days from
New Orleans, we have the plcafing informa
tion, that the Spanish Ports at the Natchez,
and other places within our territory, on the
river Miffifippi, had been at length given
up to the American Commiflioner, and the
troops under his diredtion.
By this happy accommodation ef the dif
ferences which have fobfifted, we may ex
peft the restoration of harmony in that
! quarter i and that the boundary lines will al
j so be run and determined agreeable to trea
: ty, and futur* altercatioas be thus alfppre
-1 j vented.
l j JAMES KENT, Esq. Recorder of this
■ city, has been appointed a judge of thefu
preme Court, in the room of the honorable
judge Hobait, whose term of office expir
ed ; and who has fmce been appointed a
fenaUir of the United States, for this ftaffe.
r>i«n>fTE*FSTt.D Bravery.—During the
contfft between Great-Britain and America,
, Lord Rawd n, (now Moira) sent a grenadieron
1 one or those fevcre days, which happened in the
! fnuthern provinces, te reconnoitre a port, from
| which his troops were much annoyed. The
| soldier, with the cilmnefs and intrepidi
! Tv, examined the ground, notwithflanding the
enemy kept up an ineeffint fire, and wounded
J him in two or tb--ee p'acet Having deliberate
ly (inifhed his obfervationt, he returned, and
gave an acccunt of the Puliation, wilhrut betray
ing the smallest symptom of pain. Lord Raw
don, hewe er, perceiving his b!ood run freely,
pulled out his pmfe, and prefentcd to him, with
.a warm panegyric on his heroie condufl. T:is,
however, the grenadier refufed, faying that his
" acceptance of it would tarnish whatever merit
hi* aflion might be supposed to have." This
brave and noble man was soon after promoted,
and at the end of the war commanded the very
cqmpany in which he was then enly a private.
ARRIVED. DAYS
Bn'g'lphigene, Thompson, N. Orleans 19
Schr. Adventure, Bofwell, Bermuda iS
Frederick, , N. Orleans 18
The managers of the City Dane
ing give notice that the anuiverfary Ball
*0 commemorate the birth of George Washing
ton, will be held a: Mr Ri:kets's Circus, the I2d
iuftant. Feb. 11. §taid
For Bremen,
The Danijh Brigantine
J O HA NN si,
-ohn Andrew ThiefTVn, jWafer.
EXPECTED to fail on the 18th instant. For
Pa/age onlv, apply to the captain on board,
at Hamilton's wharf, or to
EDWARD DUNANT,
No. 149, Seuth Front-street,
Who requests all those having accounts against
said veflel, to exhibit the fume for payment, pre
vious to the 18th »nft. as no demands will be paid
after departure from hence.
He has fill on band, tf tbt Ctrga of said nej/el, frvn
Malaga,
80 kegs frefli Raiflns
116 jars 7 ne jj[ oom
106 DOXCSj
90 boxes Muscatel ditto
10 kegs Figs
M h'htls.} f,J P cr! ® r Catalonia Wins
Malaga and Mountain Wine in hhds.qr. calks
And a few qr. calks fine old Colemenar Wine.
February 13. ~ *jt
' TO BE SOLD,
At No. 36, North Eighth street,
The time of an indented Black Girl.
SHE has about eight or ten years toferve—-wafti
e; and irons well, and it to be disposed of for want
of employment.
Feb I V
Flax Seed for sale.
Apply to
GEO. DOBSON,
No. 15, South Third-flreet.
January 97 $
OVAL BOTTLES.
f)uart and half gallon in crates —and a quanti
ty of Claret Bottles of a right fue—Fer sale at
No. 13, Chureh Alley. JOHN DORSEY.
January n 3taw6w.
A House in Burlington for Sale.
THE fubferiber has a large, convenient two
ftory brick House, with Stables, Carriage
houfe, and a well improved Garde*, in the City
of Burlington, New-Jersey, which he wiflies to
ssll. For termsapply at No. 5, South Fourth
street, to ' GEORGE WALKER,
Who hat also for Sale,
Lots in Wa{hington City,
Contiguous to the Capitol and to the principal
harljowr.
December 19. 7«t
Lost—Yesterday in the Market,
AN ORDER drawn by capt. Richard O'Brien,
favor of John I.arkum, on Mr. Tench Francis,
Purveyor of Public Suppli-s. Whoever has fonnd
the fame, ii refuelled to leave it at Thomas Lar-
Imm's, 980 fourh Front-ftrect, or at this office.—
Payment being flopped, it c?n b< of no ufeto any
o ne but the owner. F«b. 7 —Jt
Hyson and Young Hyson Tea.
A few cherts of excellent quality, for sale, cor
ner of Second and Pine streets. Dsc 26—eotf
Jujl Pvblijhed,
And to be had of MefTrs. DoUfon, Campbell ,Ric«,
Cary, and the other pricipal Bookfelleri in tSe
city .price one dollar, twinty-five cents,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, w. d.
June 90.
NEW-THEATRK
13th) February, 1798.
The Public are refpeftfully
acquainted, that on account of the • reparations
for OS'CAR and MALVIN A, not bciHg compet
ed, the Performances advertised for to-morrow,
are unavoidably poflponed un*jl
THURSDAY EVENING,
FEBRUARY IJ,
When will be prefenteH the TRAGEDY of
The GAMESTER.
Beverly, mr Fennell—Stukely, mr Warren—
Lewfon, mr Wignell—-Jarvis, mr Morris—Bates,
mr Taylor—Dawfon, mrWarrell, jun—\Vaiter,
, mr Hunter.
Mrs BeverJy, mrs Merry (being her firfl appear
ance in that chara&er) —Charlotte, mrs Francis—
-1 Lucy, mrs Do&or.
( To which will be added (for the fir ft time) a Grand
Heroic Pantomime Ballet and Spe&acle, taken
from OJfian % called
; OSCAR AND MALVINA.
[Composed by Mr. Byrne—and performed trudcr
his dire&ion at the Theatre, Covent Gardep,
upwards of two hundred nights.
The new Music composed—-and the ancient Scots
Music fele&ed ard adapted by Mr. Shield. The
Overture by Mr. Reeves.
Oscar, (the descendant of Fingal) mr Byrne—
Carroi, (the Scottish Chieftain) mr Hardinge—
Fingal, mr Taylor—Morven, rar Marlhall—Dra
co, mr Warrell, jun—Scotch Pedlar, (with she
l§ong, 4 1 am ar jolly gay Pedlar*) mr Francis—
Scotch Lad, mr Fox.
Scotch Laffie,mifs Milbourne—Malvina (daugh
ter to Tofcar) mrs Byrne.
Principal Bard, mr Darley.
Bards—Melfrs. Fox, Warrell, T. Warrell, Huflfr
tcr, BlifTett, Matthew, &e.—mrs Warrell, miss
Milbourne, mrs Stuart, mrs Hunter, mad, Har
wood, &c.
The Scenery, part painted by Mr. Milbourne, and
part by Melfrs. Holland and Stuart.
1 Reprefenlitig—The Hall of Fingal, with a
Banquet preparatory to the Nuptials of Oscar
and Malvina
The Mountain of Ben Lomond, with the
Military Proccflion of Carrol to the Hall of
Fingal.
A view of the Sea and Rack from which
Olcar escapes by leaping from a high precipice
into the arms of his Soldiers.
The Bridge, with the Camp of Carrol.
The death of Carrol by the hands of Mal
vina—his dsfcent into the Sea—and the confla
gration of the Camp of Carrel.
On Friday, The Clandejlim Marriagt.
Box, one Dollar ; Pit, three quarters of a Dol
lar ; and Gallery, half a Dollar.
s~j' The doors of the Thsatre will open at five,
and the curtain rife f recifcly at fix o'clock.
Places for the 3oxes to be taken at the Office in
the front of the Theatre, from 10 till 9 o'clock,
and from 10 till 4 on the days of performance.
I Tickets to be had at H. and P. Rise's book-flore, -
No. 50 Market-street, fnd #t the Office adjoining
the Theare. VIVAT RESPUBLICA
PROPOSALS,
BY THI
Insurance Company of North America.
For Insurance against Fim, on Dwelling-
Hoi/fes, Ware-House», and other Buildings (and
on Goods contained in such Buildings) distant from
Philadelphia, in the United States.
I. Common-lufurancei, on hazards of the firfl
class, will be undertaken at a premium of about
half per cent, per annum. For extra hazardous
rifques a larger premium yill be required, which
| will vary according to circumfhnces, feidom ex
ceeding one per cent, per annum ; but in some in
ftanccs, where the property i' fured is not only in
itfclf extra hazardous, Uut rendered still more so
by the vicinity of extra hazardous building, and
occupations, the premium demanded will be raised
according to circumftinces.
Houfe# and Ware-Hcufes, the walls and parti
tions of which are wholly #f Aone or brick, well
conftruiUd, so as to bv guarded as well as may be
against fires from within, and free froaa extra ha
zardous buildings and occcupations in their neigh
borhood, will be "deemed hazardous of the iirft
class, and may be insured to their full value.
Also Goods and Merchandize, not o? an extra
hazardous kind, in calks, bales, or packages, de
pofircd in such buildings, to an amount not ex
ceeding 4000 dollars; but if more than thisfum
is required to be insured in one tenement, <an addi
tional premium will be required, in proportion to
circumftanees.
11. Insurances will also be made on buildings and
goods extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to the risque. Bit it is not easy to arrange theft
■nder particular heads or classes, so as to dtfciibe
each with the neccffary accuracy. Each cafe must
therefore be decided upon according to th« circum
fiances attending it; and these circumftanees will,
in general, appear from the description accompa
nying the application.
Buildings partly conftruAed of brick or stone,
are preferable to those wholly wooden. And in
both cases, the stile »f building, how they are oc
cupied, how they are situated, the neighboring
buildings, andhow occupied, are considerations to
be taken into view. And with refj>e& t» goods,
their tendency, whether front their nature, or
from the manner in which they are exposed, cither
to commence or to increase an accidental fire, and
their liability in such state to receive damage by
wet, or by sudden and hasty removal, or to be sto
len in time of confnfisn and hurry, are all cir
cunifiances of weight ; and tke premiums mufi be
proportioned accordingly.
111. The following condition! are to be nnder
floed hy the parties .
ift. The Insurance is not binding till the stipu
lated premium be paid ; but it shall be deemed ef
fectual from the time of such payment and accep
tance thereof, whether the policy be immediately
signed or not.
ad. Insurances naay be renewed at the expira
tion of the term of the policy, withont further tx
penfe. than the payment of the premium of the re
newed term,the circumflancei continuing the fume
as they were enderftood by the lnfurers at the time
the former insurance was made ; bat the payment
of the premium is cflential to such renewal ; and
if the party insured fuffers any time to elapse after
the expiration of the former infarance, before he
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not infnred
during such time ; nor can the insurance be renew- j
ed on the former policy but by computing the
commencement of the reoewal fr»m the expiration
of the former insurance. The fubjetf of infur- 4
anCe may neverthclef* be open to treaty for a new
insurance.
3d. If ary other iafuranae be made on the fame
property 5 it mnfl be made known at the trtne of
application, otherwise made «n suchaa- r
plication will be void. . n
4th Goods held in trnft, or on consignment,
nrty be insured as such in a separate policy ; but
they are rot to be confidcred as infaied »th rwlfe.
Jth. This company will not be liable or accoun
tabic for any loss or damage occasioned by any for
eign invaflon, of by any military or usurped force, -
or by feafan of any civil commotion ; or occasion
ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or other thing of the J
like kind kept in the building, or amongll the pro
perty insured. j
6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu- a
rities, Title Dnedi, Money, Bank and other pro-
L iiiifTVy Noses, are nor included in any M»ranc* |
nor a'e paintings, medals jewels, gem., antique
or m'rror.< cxcrerliiijj the value of Hvch«
ty-five dollnije3e%, to fcc confirferi-d as infnredun
lefs particularly mentioned *nd by special agree
. mcnt.
Jih. Mo insurance will tie made for a f-ortrf
term than one year, nor or a logger tcrtn than le
vel# years. Fcrfnns choofirg to »!ure for seven
• y«jrs Hull be allowed one year's premium by way
of difrounr; One third oI a years premium (hall
be abated m like maaner on an infufanee far
three year.".
a Bth I.olTiisfurtained by fireon property injured,
shall be paid in thirty d<y a after due proof and li
quidation thereof, without deduction.
s A defetiption of the property to be infurod will
be cxpe&cil with oach"application, to he madu by
' a master carpenter and finned by him, as Weil ht
hy the owner of the building 01 applicant for in
surance, and attested before a Notary or principal
Magistrate, who will certify his knowleJgeof the
parties and their credibility.
ith refpeil to Houf(s and other Buildings,
H ist- The site and pof:ti< n describing the
street or road on or near which the building
ftantls j its contiguity to water, and other cir.
cumftances relative to the extinguishment of fiie
r in cafe of accident; and particularly whether
. any and what fire companies are ettablifhed, and
engines provided,in the place or neighbou. hood.
s 2d. Ihe materiafs of which it it ouilt, whe
e ther of brick, Hone or wood, and what part of
each, as well as to theeutfide walls as infideor
partition walls, and their refpeflive height and
thickness ; the ltyle of the roof and of what
e materials ; how l'ecured by battlements or par
ty walls ; what kind of access to the top of the
lioufe and to the chimnies ; whether any and
_ what eleflric rods ; tlie number and kind of
fire place* ; and the kind of depoiit for alhes.
3d. Ihe dimensions of the building and how
, divided, and the fiyle in v. hich it is finilhed Co
s as to enable indifferent perfens to judge in what
. manner it Uto be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury; the ?ge and condition of the building,
and how occupied, whether merely as a dwel
ling house, or for any other, and for what pur
i pose , also an dUimate of the value of thehoulis
r or build ng independent of the ground.
4th. Tie situation with refpe'dl to other build
: ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
f not, comprehending at least one hundred feet
each way: what kind of buildings are within
, that diflance, how built, of what materials, and
. how occup.cd or improved, whether as dwel
lings for private families-or otherwil'e : whe
ther any and what trade or manufa&ory is car
ried on, and particularly whether there be any
extra hazardous articles used, or usually depo
sited in the lioufe, or within the diltance afore-,
said, and of what kind.
Refpedlinggoods in Iloufes, Warehouses, &c.
I. A peneral description of the building ir»
which they are kept wiH be expe&ed, limilar ia
all refpeils, as to the danger from lire, with that
required for lnftirame on the buildings thern
' feives.
t 2. A description of the Vinds. and nature of
the goods, whether in calks or other packages,
or opened ; and whether displayed in whole
. pieces or in the usual form for retailing. And
if the goods vary materially in kind, a general
ellimate of the value of each kind proposed to
be insured ; but in the last particular minute
ness of description is not expetfed.
3. Articles of the following kinds are deem
ed extra hazardous, though in various degrees,
in whatever building they may be placed, vix.
pitch, tar, turpentine, rofm, wax, tallow, oil,
inflammable spirits, sulphur, hemp, flax, cotton,
dry goods of an inflammable kind opened.—
Gl.ifs, china ware or porcelain, especially un»
packed ; Looking glasses, jewelery ; and all o
ther articles more than-commonly inflammable,
or n ore than commonly liable to injury by Hid
den removal or by rnoiftures, or particularly
obnoxious to theft on an alarm of fire.
Letters poll paid, dire&ed to the Secretary of
the Board of l3ire<slors, will be duly attended
to. An order for Jnfurance accompanied by the
means of paying the premium, will be imme
diately executed on the premium paid. If
the application contain an enquiry only, it will
be answered.
By order of the Board,
EBENEZER HAZARD, Sec'rj.
Office of the lafuranee Company of North >
America ; P blind. Feb. 1, 1798.. 5
Feb. 14.
NOTICE
IS hereby given, that the Subscriber, an insol
vent debtor, confined in the common poal of
the County of Cape May in the state of New-
Jersey, hath presented his petition to the Judge*
of the Inferior Court of Common Tleas, in and
fqr the said county, praying that they would
attend to hear what can be alledged for or a
gainfl his liberation, purl'uant to an i£\ of the
Legislature of this State,entitled "an a3 for
the relief of insolvent debtors," paflVd th; a6th
day of January 1798—And the the said court
did appoint Monday the a6th day of March
next for the purpose afnrefaid ; to meet at the
Court House in the Middle Precinfl, at eleven
o'clock, in the forenoon of the said day, of which
his creditors are requeltad to take notice.
CHARLES ALLEN.
Capt May, Feb. 8, 1798.
Feb 14 —ia»'jw
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE E»it*rs of the Northern Libfrty
Star, and Dai lt Advertiser, refpeftlully in
form their patrons sad the public, thai the publica
tion which was promised >hia" day, is unavoidably
poflponed until Monday next.
BERN ARD SCHEFFLER and Co.
fXOPOSALS
Tor publilhing a Daily in the Northern
Liberties of Philadelphia, to be entitled, the
NORTHERN LIBERTY STAR,
ANJ) DAILY ADVERTISER.
t
| CONDXTrONJ.
ill- The Northern Liberty Stir, and Daily Adverli
fer, shall be printed on a good paper of a dem»
size, with a handsome type, every evening, and
delivered to fubfenbers in the Northern Liberties,
City, and Germantown, between the hours of four
and fix o'clock
«d. The price to subscribers, will besiXDOLiAia
per annum, one dollar and an half to be paid at
the time of fubferibing or at the end of every three
months.
jd. The Star fliall contain the Arrival*. C!e*Vancet #
Piices Current, Stocks, and all otker Publrc rtufu
ness, which)may render it ufeful to tlTe 'ubferiben.
4th.- Advertisements will be received every day until
two o'clock, and inserted the Tame evening, in a
neat and coufpicuous manner, on the most moder
ate terms:
Subscriptions, articles of intelligenae, advertise
ments, See. will be thankfully received until Monday
next, at the Printing.Office, corner of St. John au«4
St. Tamanv-ftreets, between Second and Third
ftreet, for that day's publicati in.
%• The Printers of the United Sta es, who may
wish to exchange papers, are refpeafully requeftcd to
fend oa their papers as soon a« polfi jle.
Febrnary 14. dil
FOR SALE,
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Including Long Primer, about 4*o weight, in
g..d condition, and would ai fwcr the purpose of
a country Printer as well as new.
£aquir« of the Printer.Public S.tle of Real Ellates.
On THURSDAY Evening, the ijth of
February itext, will be exposed to Public Sale,
at the Merthsnts" Coffee-houfe i » 'it ;ond-llteet,
at 6 »n rlwKeveninfi;, the following
ESTATES. £
No. I. A two ftorj brick Houle, with 1 two
(lory frann: Buddings, on a lot 20 feet front and w
1 :>c fc-t deep ; also, a vacant Lot of 42 feet lquare, 11
xvi'h the privilege of an alley to go theret.. 1 his |
interest has lately been let for 100 dollars per an
mini, and is situated in Chriftian-ftrest, between "
Front and Second streets, the feco«d house from P
Mr Caleb Afc's.
No 2. A three story briek House, situate at °
the north cast eorner of Chefnut Oreets, being 14
feet on Second-street, and 20 feet on Chefnut
ftre-t, now in the tenure of Mr. Morange, at the
yearly rent of 400 dollars, and » deemed one of
the belt Hands for the sale of dry goods in this city. I
No. 3. A handsome well finilhed three story ft
brick House, 20 ffcet front and .roo feet deep, fit'J- fl
ate in Fifth-firec-t, between Mirket and Arch- ii
streets, No. 40. Thisi oufe is built and finilhed it
in the modern style, is in complete repair, with J
double cellars under the whole. Thei eis a ciflern a
of rain water in the yard ; and the house is at pre- h
ftrt let for 600 dollars per annum with the taxes. a
No. 4. A three story briek House, situate in ii
Pliimb-ftreet, between Second and Third street, tl
being 20 feot front and 130 feet deep, at prefeut r.
occupied by Robert Kenny. o
N«. 5. A three story brick House, on the bank ii
fide of Front-street, No. 171 North, going thro' a
to Water-street, where it is five ft.ry. It is 10 ti
feet front a*d 48 feet deep, in complete repair, p
and ii rented for 600 dollars per annum. h
The conditions of Sale are, one quarter ca(h,
.i,e quarter in 6 months, one quarter in 9 months, s
and one quarter in 12 months. B
Philadelphia, Jan. 12,1798. 3*wtl.tF
Saiifbury 1
THE Subscriber, proposing t« contrast hii bufi- -
nels, offers this Eft.te Tor sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaees,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grvit c
Mill, with two pair of stones ; also a good Forge, ad
in perfect repair, asa're all the.Water Works conned
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces '
were lately built for the ptnrpofir of carting Cannon
for this State.—There are ahpu' two thousand acres 1
of Land, one half of which it under wood, the other t
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
failure. The Cannon lately mannfaflured 'here,
•illy proves the excellency of the meial, which is
luperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one of sixty-nine a
lately made, although some of the 24 were bored i
into 33 pounders, have faiUd on proving. Theti'.u- <
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of 1
manufacture, ana a place of arms lying in the ftatc I
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from ftveral land. '
Kgs on the Hudson's liver, and having every advan
tage that can rcfult tiara a plenty of water issuing
from a Urge naiural pond, very near the Furnace, J
and which may be converted into a variety of other ,
tifeful purposes. The purchßfer can besccommodat- ,
ed with all the ftoek and utensils, and have possession (
on or before the firft of June next, and prepar tion
ntav be made in the mean time for going into Blast im
mediately the re a iter, for every part will be delivered
in good order, with feme coat, Ore, Slc. &c. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthtmy, in Philadel
phia; D'.»vid Brooks, Eij. one of the ReprefentaMves
in Cew grefs lor thisStaie ; Mr, D virl 'vVateiman, on
the oreniifes, or to the proprietor in New-York. 1
WILLIAM NEILSOX. j
Dee- 1. aawlf
» ' - "
Recently Publijhed,
Ard imparted from England, l*y William
Griffiths, No. 177, South Second street, and
may be had of Mahc-n J Rhe&s,
A Cheap and valuable work, io tw© closely
printed volumss .in Bvo. (price 3 dollars)
Hydrations of Prophecy :
In whiek are eiucidared many pred ; .6lions, which
occur in Isaiah, Danie!, the Writings of the Evan
gclifts, and book of Revelation ; which arc tho't
to io retell* among oth?r greatevents, a revolution
in France, avorahle to the interests of mankisd,
tke overthrow of tho*papal pow«£rand of eccle&-
ailical tyranny, the downfall of civil defpotifin,
and thclitb!'cquent'jcclioration of the Hats of the
wcrld : toother with
A large collection of Extracts,
Interfperfcd through the work, and taken from
numerous commentators, particularly from
Tofei'h Mede, Sir lfaac Newton,
VUringa, Mr. William Lewth,
Dr. Th. Gdodwin, Fleming.,
Dr. Hemy More, Bengelius,
D». John Owen, Daubui,
Dr. Crefiener, Whitby,
Pcterjurieu, I owman,
Brenius, Biftiop Newton, and
JJilhop Chandler, | Bifttop Hurd.
By JOSEPH LOMAS TOWERS.
Besides various other irquiries treated of in
this work, a*d numerous illustrations of prophecy ;
it contains a confidcfrab'.e number of fails or ob
fcrvations on the fytnbolic lanjO ige of prophecy,
the authen:icity, use.<, and sbfeurity of the apo
ealypfe, and the genuineness of the Hebrew pro
phet; on the rapid corruption ef christianity in
the fourth century ; on the difperiion and restora
tion of the Jews, «ehe hiltory of the fal£e Messiahs
who have appeared among them, and the rsafons
jofupport of the conj-ifture that the Afghans are
the csfcendauts of the ten tribes ; on the right of
rafiftavce to oppression; on the irruptions of th»
Borthern nations, and the caufesof the decliee and
fail of the Roman empire; on the cuttoms of the
Tartars, and the indepeadcnce of the Arabs; on
the conquers of those nations, and those of the
Turks; 2n the usurpation of she Mamalukes, and
tha patl hifiory and present state of Egypt; on
the character and cond«<ft of Conftantine, Julliui
n, Clovts, and Lewis XIV ; on the scarcity of
books in the dark ages, and the caufcs of the de
cline of literature ; on tha rapid rife of the French
monarchy, and the caHfes of its fall; o*the in
confiftencie» in the political charatfters of bilhops
Newton ard Hurd; on the peculiarities of Dr.
Th. Burnet's theory of the earth ; on the beneficial
tflcijs which ehriftianity has produced in favor ol
karnint* and eivil liberty, and its tendency to pro
mote tiieeftablifhmcnt of equal governments
ludependent of the large proportion of original
matter contained in these volumes, those who are
Interfiled m thefubjeiSt will, it isprefum.d, wi(h
to peruse.or consult them, because the extracts in
troduced ia them, which are accurately eitcd.and
marked with inverted comraas, are taken from a
greater number of writers on the prophecies (a
tealt if the roman catholic commentators be ex
cluded) than are easily accessible to any one indivi
dual even 111 Europe, or are probibly to be found
i» any one library in the world. They are t»r
nilhed with indexes, and a eoj ious table of con
tents. J' 1 "' 12 —MW2W
Imported intheftiipMANCHESTER,
Benjamin Shewill, Matter,
from Bourdeaux, and for sale by tbefubfcriber,
No. 11, Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux ftrandy ~1
Irifii market clarut ki cafw ( Entitled to
Medocwine, in do. f Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatrsyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarUr cases
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bufWek Liverpool fait.
Ai»g. 2-f. tut&stf-
W. HA^on
Delineator of Drawing—from London,
(Where he has studied several years under one of A
the most eminent matters in that fuence)
INFORMS his friends, that has re-commenc
ed his private tuition.—Terms, as usual, Six (
Dollars per month, f®r attendance three tares a q
week. Likawife, all kinds of Orn amenuVFaint
ing, fruit, flow.rs, 3cc. 'aught on the above terms.
W. H. flatter? himfislf fn's terms will be particu
larly advantageous to those that employ him, as
he makes no additional charge if there are two
pupils in one family, ,
A line dire&ed to W. H. left at the office ©f this
Gazette, will be immediately attended to. .
January 9. § aw
To I*7 Sold," *
AGREEA.3LY to the iaft will and tefantept of 4
William H ysham, decealed, a
fion given immediately, a valuable property in Arch u
street, betweon Third and Fourth ft.eets, consist- J,
ingof the house, No 107, with the lot on which p
it is ere&ed, a ftakU, and oth#r improvements. — c>
The house is %o feet front, and contains ten good a
apartments. The lot is of the fame breadth as the s .
house and 209 feet deep, with a well of water an»4 c
a very capacious walled cittern, botfh with pumps t.
in goop repair. The liable Hands on the retir ot d
the lot and wijl accommodate lour horses and a car- /
riage. Thi6 property enjoys the perpetual privilege
of a 26 feet oourc andan alley, 8 feet wiie,extend- «
ing to Cherry Street. Its central position and t-he K
advantages it poiTeffcs with refpe& to free ventila-
tion, renders it well worthy the attentio-n of any I
person wishing to poffeft an eligible property in Phi-
ladelphia, a
For further particulars enquire at No.BB, Vine
Street—of
Rqiert Heysham,
or r Acting Fxecutors. .
FR'anxtjs Bqwes j i
January 11 $ <
The Subscriber
INFORMS thofi whom it may intercfl or con- j
cern, that the Judg-s of the Court of Comnvon
Pleas have appointed AfsnJay, thi tivtnty-Jixtb day of j
February next, td hear him and his Creditors, at the <
Court-houfs in this city, on the ftAj*<sfc of his peti- ,
tion for the benefit of the Infolveat Law—and
that their attendance is defllred.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
Philadelphia, Jan. 16. eota6thF 1
The Subscriber intends to make
application for t<he teoewa! of a Certificate of a Share
m the Bank of the United States,[ftantftng in the name
of A. B. N0.5901, dated July 11, i 797» the famc
having been 1011. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. I.
The Subscriber,
V Informs those to whom he is indebted, that his
books,, which have been kept open for their irfpec
tinnfince December 1796 are balanced to the 3 (ft
ult. and will daring the present month remain
open at his Countinsc-houfe in Chefnat Street for
their further iDvclligation and fcrutny.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
Philadelphia, Jan. id 1798.
All Persons
Having any-demantis aga l nft the Eftateofthe
late Captain Ocorga Irwin, are requtfled to
bring in their accounts pioperly attested, on or
before the firft day of January n«xt ensuing
and those who are indebted to"Taid estate are so
licited to make immediate payment to
SARAH KiWIiV.
Nov. 29 1797- 4
NOTICE. ~
ALL persons who have any demands agaiuft
the estate of Willam Flkewtood, .of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are requested t. exhibit their accounts,
properly attested ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, to
GEO. DOBSON,
No. 15, So. Third-street. 5 Admln, J lr r
January 4. dtf
Surveyor General's Office,
December 2,1797.
ON a releate of furvty of 433 acres,6B perches
of land, fijunte in l.wer Scnith field townfllip
Northampton county, furveyad to William Wills,
per warrant .f. 2d March, 1786, the Deputy Sur
veyor hath made the following note, viz,
ThMand claimed by heir, .f Lewis Gordon and I
George Taylor, not known by what right.—Cer
tified f»r Daniel Broadhead, Esq. Survey.r Gene
ral—William Parker.
The firft Mopday in March next is appointed for
a hearing of the parties on the a ! ove caveat, or any
others interested of concerned therein, they havhig
n at lead thirty days notice for John Hall, Secretary
; of the Land Office.
N. Lufborough.
' January 26 §tlF2wtm
Copper for Sheathing,
" Fur Sale, by
SIMON WALKER,
, s Pine-Jlreet, near Fifth.
e January 29 div^
>f - . r
° Genteel Boarding and Lodging
To be ha<i It a moderate price—Enquire a
® No. 138, Arch-street.
Jan, 27. d2w
„ To be fold,
A N ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
,f il ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat tw.
story brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
h Orchard, <kc. situate on the Irilh trait lane, in the
1. townfllip of Moyamenfing, about one mile from
)$ the citj of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
r , be made known upon application at the office of
il the Philadelphia Gazette.
>1 The improvements upon this place, for talle and
elegance, (land unrivalled.
December 1. dtf
al . . .■ ' ■ .
I PROPOSAL.
i- TTAVING met with a liberal pa'ronage, the
id 11 Subscriber is emboldened to issue proposals
a for printing by fubfeription, the JOURNALS OF
»• CONGRESS, from their firft meeting in 1775,10
1- the present time.
i- This work JhaH be printed with a new type,
id mad; for the purpose; and en good paper. It
r- will be delivered at oae dollar per volume (o3a
[i. vo) in 6 vols.—talk to be paid on delivery.
It Uneedlefs to fay any thing *f the merits of
_ this undertaking—thfl scarcity of the Journal*
throughout the United 9-ates, is fafficient to jufti
' fy th« printer in his hope of meeting with that
' fuecefs, which he is certain the enterprise deserves.
» JOHN PARKER.
Jan. 27. d 6t
0 For Sale by the Subscribers,
Printe Rite in <who!e and Half tierces
Boutdeaux Brandy
Tenerijfc H r i»e
Motajes
Gforgia and Carolina Initiga
Rat-ens Duck and one of faiit
brushes.
N. & y. Frnzer.
No. J;, Sonth Front Street.
Nov. dim.
J
FOR PRINTING BT SUBSCRIPTION,
A NEW AND INTEfttJTINC WORK) ENTITLED,
A TREATISE
ON THE POLICE OF LONDON,
Containing a detail of the various crimes and av.f
demeanor*:, by which puV.ic and private proper
ty, arc, at prcfent, injured and endangered :
And fugge!»ing remedies for their prevention.
BY A MAGISTRATE,
A&ing for the counties ot Middlesex, 6urry, Kent,
aua Efl'ex ; for the city anil liberty of Wefimin
fter ; and for the liberty of the Tower of Lon-
don. \f
T» those who have read this curious and viliiable tooth,
it tvill need no recommendation— knoiv its solid merit
—but as it bas hitherto got into very few b,:njs in this
Country, itivillmtbe amiss to obferve —so great -was the 1
approbation and demand in 1 on.ion t tfjat it puff id through
three large edtions in the course tf tivtlvc months. As a *
detail of the ingenious varieties of fraud, that endanger
property in London, and mofi other overgrown
citic*, ti cannot fait to afford the reader great entertain mc t
as ivtil as iujlrvftion ; but as the author traces all tbeje
enormities to a fcio, and in them fellies, imonfderable caif*
es, many of which ufluallj exijl in all tie large cjpAals of
the United States, the uu/inefs is brought ho ne to our oiun
doers ; and the work has an incre ijing claim to out atten
five perusal.
To ajjijl the le<riJlator and the wngijlraie in the humare
office of preventing crimes, and their confquent punijb
ments, xias the patriotic dejign of tie author. u Private
offences, he fays, are the jbtirce of public crime*, and the
bcfl method of guarding fodiety againfl the latter is, to male
proper for checking the former" —Tbofe men
are eajily fduadfrovi their loyaHy ivho are apofiotis from _
virtue
CONDITIONS.
THls work will be printed in a targe o«stavo, on
an excellent English paper —It will be delivered to
fobferibers, bound i» boards, at the moderate price (
of One Dollar and a half; although the lalV London
edition, oh inferior paper and meanly bound, is
nyw fold at *wo dollars and a half. To non-fub
i fcribers the priee will be raised.
Whatever encourage::.ent may be given by sub
scription, it will be committed to ' fee pr#fs without
delay ; and, barring accidents, will be roady for
publication early in April.
'gj? Subferiptions wiil Toe thankfully received at
Benjamin BaviesVs book-ftoie, No 68, High
ftrcet, arid by moibof th« other bookfellersin the
city ; by George Hill* in Baltimore; and by Sam
uel Campbell, and A. Drummond, in New-York.
January 31. 2awtA
ROSS SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE.
A few bales Baftas, Cyflas, and
a quantify of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in fcagi and boxes
Jamaica, „ }
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and BengjJ j
300 calks RICE, e-nd
A parcel of ship burl dang RED CEDAR.
o<st. 27. §
To be Exchanged for
British, German, or India Goods,
IN THE PACKAGE ;
A trad of valuable Land
In Lycoming, joiping that of the Holland eo.
and containing io,oqq Acres.
Inquire of the Printer.
Jan; n. 6
no Tle; 1!
To holder, of JAMES GREEN LEAF'S
and EDWARD FOX'S Engagements!
IN consequence of many haying bee-n prevent
ed, from late unavoidable circumftancee from
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. The Trustees now inform them, they
are ready to iflue the fame to those who may ap
ply within Gxtydays, at No. 8 Chefnut Street,
and those who do not, will be confidercd as re
linquithing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided for their payment.
HENRY PRATT,
THC MAS W. FRANCIS,
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER.
, December 15. dftct
, FOR SALE, AT
Wm. Young's Bsok Store,
, No. 51, Second street, the corner of Chefnut flrect.
of the Committee of the House of
Xv. Reprefeotatives of the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
r against WILLI BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeached of high crimes and mis
demeanors, made in pursuance of a refokition of
• the Houfaof Representatives, authorizing the said
Committeetofit during the recefi of Congress, and
inftruiting them " to enquire, and, hy all lawful
" means, to difcever the whole nature and extent
" of the offence whereof the said William Blount
~ " Hands impeachej, and who are the parties and
" affociatestheroin."
Printed by order of the Hou/i of Representatives
December at>. 5
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. 110 Walnut-street,
> TNFORMS those who wifti to recur to the only
1 -L meant of becoming perfedt in the French Lan
guage, that he has just opened his Library, con
fining of upwards of 1500 volumes, the bed cal
culated to afford cither ufefti) inHruilion, or plea
sure. The eoaditions, together with a catalogue
[m of the Library, may be seen at every book-feller's
9 in town.
e n. b. All translations from and into the French,
c English and Spanish Languages, execu:ea with ac
a curac> and dispatch. coim vov. ij;.
Samuel Pleafants Sff Sons,
No, 74, South Second-firctty
j T TAVE received a supply of Seasonable GOODS,
XX which they are now opening for sale, on
rcafonable terms. OA 27 —4w
This Day is i J üblilhed,
BY Mess. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Ric $ and the
•ther Bookfelle/s, -
c Price One Dollar and twenty-fivecents,
' s Elegantly printed on fVyvr paper y and Met'
0 pressed.
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of th« several States with each other, and whh
f that of the Uaited States: exhibiting in Tables,
, the prominent features of caeh Constitution, and
1 'clafling together their most imp.rtant provisions,
t under the several heads of administration j with
Notes andObfervations.
By WILLIAM SMITH, „
Of South-Carolina,
' L L. D. and member of the Congress of the
Unit.d States.
Dedicated to th. People of th« United States.
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior pa
per, at 3-4thsof a dollar.
Employment for the Poor.
FLAX TOR SPINNING,
TobegiveJi out every second, fourth, and sixth
day moning, between the hours of lo and la—
back of 110.52, south Fifth ftrtct, ahove Spruco
ftreet. eodaw
Jauies C. Samuel W. t'
At THE :R STORE, I c
N0.|13, corner of Arch and Front street. I
HAfE FOR SALE, _ -
Cotton and worsted Hosiery in trunks, aflored y
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannel f
Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Puilicat lilk ditto
Ditto Pondichcrry and Madraf6 ditto c
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black TafFetics
4000 piece* Nankeens, and
Few chests bed Hyson T*
AlJ'o —1500 box's Uefl. l.ondo'n Winelow Gl-fs,
from Bby 6, to 19 by 14 —ui.d 15 hhds. Glass.
Ware assorted, which they will difpofc of cheaper
than any in the city.
Nov 18 Jiiwtf,. 1
Imported (via Mew York) 011 the ,
ship Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and lor j
sale by the AiWcriber, at N<». 61, Chefnut llreet, j
between Second and Third StFcets, the follow- j
ing articles .
Maharagonges Chare op n<a Dorans j
Chintz and Calicoes Dacca worked muslins 1
Gillis Romah Bandannoi^
Nillas Sc PenQafoes Chafla Romals
Blue cloth Hair ribboQ
Mull MuHhankerchieTs Palemjrores
Patna do. Bauares Opium
Lesser Cardimam Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox.
novetnber 27 tutho4W
Valuable Books, j
Just received by the F.ii* American from
London, and now opening and fefling by
J. Or.mr.od, N®. 41, Chefnut Street.
CATALOGUES
Of the newly impsrtedbooks maybe had gra- j
tis. These added to O's usual stock, form an !
and elegant colletSlion of ancient and
modern literaturs, and comprise bocks in sun
dry languages and on various fubjedis.
This Day it Published,
By J. Ormrod, (Price 75 cents, handfemely
bound and lettered, and embelliflied with au
elegant frontifpiece and seventy three cuts.) j
The Looking Glass for the Mind,
O R,
The Juvenile Friend ;
Being a valuable of interelling and
mifcellar.eous incidents, calculated to exhibit to
young minds the happy efi'eifU of youthful in
nocence aad filial affeiftion—ln prose and verse.
Defigncd to improve and amuse the rising gene
ration .
In the Press, and will be speedily publiflied,
Dr. DARWIN'S
Plan of Female Education.
Subscriptions for this incomparable work will
be thankfully rereived by the printer. The book
will contain about three hundred pages, will be
printed with a new type on line paper, and de
livered to fublcribers neatly bound, lettered and
embelliflied with an elegant frontifpiace, for one
dollar.
January 3. 3t.
FOR SALE, bt
William Priestman,
119, South Front-fireet, next door to the Cuf
tom-bouse,
A large ajfortment of
r Gold and silver Watches
A Time Keeper, by Arnold
Some plated Candleflicks
Double barrelled Guns, by Mortimer, maker
to the King of England
r Ditto, by Parker
Pair duelling Piflols, by Knubley, Charing
Crof»
' Reflecting Telescope, hy Rlbright
j Box of patent Medicines
be lb, Scotch Thread
Small collection of valuable Books, and
Books of Prints
30,000 acres of Land in one lot, upon the
Big Sandy, in Mason county, Kentucky, pa
tented by Percival Butler, in 1787-
Also, 14 Lake Erie Lots
_ Invoices or parcels of Watthet bought.
January 4. d7t
School Books and Stationary.
> W. Y O U N G,
it No. sa, Second-street, corner of Chefnut-ftrect,
e TTAS now ready for sale, a very large aifort
f- IX ment of English, French, Latin and Greek
)f SCHOOL BOOKS. Also, fu»ch elementary books
id on Science, as are generally read in the academics
d and collegqsthroughout the United States.
J1 LATELY PUBLISHED,
it Sheridan's DiAionary, the sixth edition, in one
»t large vol. Bvo price 3 dols.
id Ditto, large I a mo, price 1 dol. 75 «rs.
Ditto, common, price I dol. 50 cts.
»i All forts of drawings packing, printing, and
writing Paper ; BookbincJ-r's Boards, Pasteboards,
~ fheatbing and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
blaifk Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, ®f
the best quality, used in the counting house, or
public office.
ly gy* Catalogues of a mifcellanecus collection of
BOOKS, with tke price of each affixed, to be had
i- by inquiring as above. Q&. 24.~-3aw6w
I". Yellow' Fever and Pestilential
', e Diseases.
S THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, in one vol. oflavo.
By William Young, Boo^feUer y
b- No. SZ, Second street, the corner of Chefnut llreet,
(Price, in boards. 87 I 2 Cents)
~ Neatly printed o* fine American wove medium
Paper,
A VIEW
in Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles eflablifbed in the elements
~ of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN.M. D.
With a;i attesipt to correil some important er
rors of that work, and cases in illuflration, chief-
I y ly feledled from the records of their praiStice,at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br IVtLIIAM 7'A TBS & ChAS. MkCLEAN.
To which i ■ lubjained, a Treatise on the a<Slion
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion for the cure of diseases of indireit debility.
: h AndadilTertatiiin onthe fourcss of Epidemicand,
ii, Peftilentialdifeafesi inwbichisattempledtoprove
id by a numerous of fails, that they ne
ps, ver arlfe from contagion, but are always j>rodu
:h ced by certai* slates, or certain vicissitudes of
the atmosphere, by Chahles Maclkan, of
Cilcutt-a.
Nov. 2f. $ 121
:e Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a generous
rent will be given; to be taken for a year, or en
- more for a longer term. Inquire of the Printer.
Q&. 17. eotf
Tin Plates,
I, FOR SALE BT »/
SIMON WALKER,
fine, near Fifth street.
December 28. Iw
The holders of Certificates, ac
ceptances, endorsements and other engagements ef
Edward Fox, f©r account of James Greerlcaf, are
hereby notified, that Wednesday, the 14th Febru
ary next, i« the last day, on which they can admit
fubferiptions to the fund afftgnedfor the payment
r Dffaid engagements; and that those holders, who
lo noi on or before that day make their fubferip
tions, will be excludod frwm the benelit thereof.
Henry Pratt,
7*. IV, Francis,
John Miller, jun.
John AJhley,
Jacob Baker.
January 29. % §
A Roman Catholic Clergyman,
Who ha* heen a confiderakle time on the
million in the country parts of the ftateof Penn
sylvania, gives this notice to any extensive pro
prietor of land within the said state, anil border
ing on either the Potomack, Sufqwbanna, or
Juniata river: ; that he is enabled to make a fat
tleroent with from fifty to one hundred and fif
ty families, if due encouragement be offered.—
For lurther information, apply to the Rev. Leo
nard Neale, Wi'iing't Alley.
Feb. 8- *;it
tj- Stop the Runaway.
ABSCONDED from his matter's employ, in the
city of Philadelphia, oh the sth of this in
stant tfehmiry, a Negro Man, named Mentor, a
| bout 5 feet 6 er 7 inches in height, and of rather
j a spare make ; his phifiognomy is* vacant but noC
disagreeable ; his age is fuppefecUto be about 40.
He had 011 when he went away, a (hort blue-lcloth
coat, striped caflimere vest, corduroy breeches,
i ana yarn (lockings of a blue and white mixture—
[ he took with him a blue cloth great coat, the cape
I of which is edged with yellow binding ; a long
brown cloth co t ; a flaort blue cloth coat with
buff coloured cape and cuffs ; alf», a pair of blue
cloth breeches ; the other cloathes he took with
| him cannot be particularly dcfcribed.
It is supposed, he intends going to the eastern
(hare of Maryland. Whoever will apprehend, and
secure the said negro in any gaol, so that his mailer
| may gethirn again, or bring him home, ihallhave
{ a reward of twenty dollars.
i -Apply to the Printer.
February 7. §
j FOR S.'ILE,
By JOHN MILLER, jun. fcf Co.
No. 8, Ch inut-ftreet,
One hundred and eighty halts
BfLNGAD GOODS,
Amongst wtych are,
Surrahs Mamoedies
Balys Sannas
Gurz nabs TandaColTaes
Guzzics Emertics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Pilampoors Romajl Handk«ichie&
Aaiorgtt them are a great proportion cf the
manufactures of Patna.
December I. §
Insurance Office of the Statq of
Pennsylvania.
February I, 1798.
THE DiroSers have this day declared a dividend
of seventy dollars on each lhare of the Hock of the
company, for the lall fix months, which will be
paid to the Stockholders or their legal repr.fenta
tives after the loth inft.
JAMES S. COX, PrefiderJ.
Febtuary 1. dl^t
For Sale.
THE Subscriber offers for sale the property now
occupied by him in the town of West-Chester
and county of Chefler. It confiftsof a well finiflied
two Dory (lone heufe, 43 feet front, by abo«t 40
r deep, four rooms on a fl«or, with ci®led garrets,
and a cellar wnderthe while—A very good flowe
Stable and Coach house—And a lot of Gcound,
three prrehes wide, by twenty perches depth.
The house stands en the Main street; its situation
is higb and very bandfome; the' lot extends to a
back llree:, on which the liable and cpach house
a ' stand. The lot is in a high fiate cultivation,
* and there is in the yard a pump of excellent water,
which has, at no time, be<m known t* fail.
The situation of the town is high, and remark
ably healthy—the country eround it, fertile and
beautiful.
The terrm of payment will made to suit the
purchaser. They, and the price, will be fetfied,
upen application to Mr. Jonathan Sm th, at lie.
149, South Third-street, Philadelphia, or to
ROBERT FRAZER.
February j. mwftf
j City Commiflioner's Office,
s January nth, 1798.
s FOR THtINFOSMITION OK THE CITIZENS.
r following arrangement is made by the
JL said commiflioßers, for clcanfing the
e streets, &c.
Diftriift No. j.—From the noHh fide of Vi»e
street, to the south fide of Mulberry street; t9
be under the fuperintendance of Nicholas Hicks,
d a From the south fide of Mtilbrry street, t»
s, the south fide of Ckefnut ftrreet, to be under the
s, fupermtendance of William Moulder,
f 3, From the south fide of Chefnut street to
r the north fide «f Spruce street, to be under the
fuperintendance of Jol'eph ClaypooJe.
4. From the north fide of Spruce llreet, to the
south fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu
perjntewdance of Hugh Roberts. rowfim
1 Landing this day,
From on board th® schooner Two
'• lei Crawley, Matter,
. « pfpM and f Jamaica RUM,
FOR SALR BY
George Latimer Ss 3 Son.
9.
60 Dollars Reward.
RAN AWAY from the fubferiber, octhe 14th
of December, 1797, a N, gro Man, about 24
years old, by th; name of ( Cato, he is about s feet
7 or 8 inches high, midling well proportioned; ho
has a very c.arse voice, his fore teeth stand very.
1 far aparc; there were one or two with him—l
cannot rightly describe the cloaths he took with
. him, for be took two or three suits ;he had on
1 when he. Went away, a pair of kerfcy trowfers, a
. half worn drab coloured co»t, a half worn wool
, hat; he took with him four very good ihirn I
j fxpeft he has made for Philadelphia or the yerfeys.
e Whosoever takes up said nejto andfecures him, so
_ that the owner may get him again, fkall have the
_ above reward, paid by me, JOHN MOORE,
j- l.ivirg iu St ill Pos J, Kent county, Maryland,
f J anuar y *• *6uaw
Chocolate and Mustard,
of a ftiperior quality manufafl»red,
GINGER and Pepper, ground ; (helled or
pearl Barley ; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
s Ale and Cyder ; Taunton and Burton' Air ;
' London Porter ; red. Port and Lisbon Wine,
ifuitahle for exportation or home confutnption*
The hiqheft pt'rce given for Mu(tard-3eed.
Alfa for sale, A quantity of Bocking and
common I3a : zes, a variety of colors ; a bale of
Fustians, Shawls, &c, for falel>y
JOHN HAWORTH,
No. 98, south Front-ftrce'.
>uv. ij, m &th.t.tJ.