/ mr*
/ -i—^. J. ••/); - «•- * T \ -'">»" ".
@i*ZXii cfdjc jinitetJ States, Phiadelphia
By John Ward Fenno, N°- Street.
NUMBE* '956.] PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY £VENING, )ECEMBER 2 4» '798. \Volvme XIV.
Cj* The price cf this Gazette t
Eight dollarsJ>er annum to Subfcn
hers residing in the city of Philadci
phia. All others pay one dollar aa
dit onal, for enclojin g and directing
andunlefs fomaperfon in this city wil
b:r»nie anfwcrable for the fubfetip
iion, it mutt be paid Six Months it
ndvancA.
■ j ■
F®r Sale,
THt sh,?
•^fe# B ° sToN packet
J? •Houses Cowpi*thwait, Mallei
" r-iJR 1 HEN ab«ut 1,500 barrels, a go»d ftron]
«hi, _h a . pxc»H»ntacc-ommodationsfor passengers
■jb »y ! e feni i« f'-a with finall expellee. She is lay
IOK t Mifflin's wliarf. Far further particular en
qUiretof
lfaac Harvey, jun, or
Smith &. Ridgway.
■ovenll)erl6 §* IC
ftT Savyfcip, u not fo'.J on, or l.cfore tlyjtl
of D. r.t\iS< ,UiA viil.on.Ul4t ci«y»in theevening
be i Sftrnl I<ir sale by fublie au&ioii, at the mcr
eh ants's coffee heufe.
Smith fcf Ridgway,
lfaac Harvey, jun.
dec. 3.
Jamaica Hum.
THE CARGO,
Of the flop UHARUSS.
rr; mrTir Nor'h si it' ol Jamaica,
Near 200 hhds. of fine high prooi
JAMAICA RUM,
Now Landing a: South "r *£ 1 'naff'-
PETER BLIGHT.
° H £ 5 '
Captain Salilk v
Coppered, mount twelve 6 pounders and thir'y
five men—returns immediately to Jamaica, for
Passage apply at above.
dec 17 iim
For FREIGHT or CHARTER,
to any part of EUROPE,
Jt~3yl The Swedish Snow
M A R t A,
Hans Olof Kock, commander.
A rem/.rkably good vessel, about aOO tons bur
then. A freight to Cadiz, or aßy ipart of the
Mediterranean would be preferred. Ei iquire of the
Captain on beard at Vine-Street Wharf
dec 17 §
ForSnlg. -v-
THE SwßscßiAfiß, intending to decline the
DRUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the
whole Stock of
Drugs and Medicines, Inftrumenfs,
The (h*>p is elegant, commodious, and fulfici
«ntly lirtown for thr eitmfive btifincfs done in the
wholrfale and retail line ; the situation «qual to
any in the city, being nt the cut ner of Walnut! and
Seeord tlrcets. The whole, or any part of the
Stock, will be fold, as will bell; suit the purchaser.
Tlw terms may be known, by applying to
James moore, jun.
Who has For Sale,
Welt calculated tor the rivtr trade—
The Peggy, about 3otons burthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably
flout, of an easy draught ®f water, rigging ii.
good order.
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
well, and in complete order forrhelumberbufiiiefi
€f All persons indebted to the late firm eJ
GMljv)uH BaUuiv, IV. Q ■ Goldthwait, (jolu
t but ait ts" Mucrc, or the fubferiber, are earnellly
requcfUd te make speedy payment to
JAMES MOORE, jbn.
»ngmt y .• J
*■ ■■ 1 ■ '
BOSTON BEEF,
200 Barrels in Shipping Order.
for sale by
JOHN SKTRIN,
No. 96, North Pror.ijlreet.
Who wants to Charter,
W*3w N iSV A GOOD S<T(TUr VESSEL,
about 300 Tons burthen.
HAS ALSO FOR SALE,
40 Pipes ot Madeira Wine, 3 years old.
nov at ' m4t
FOR WILMINGTON,
Nio R T H-C A R o L I N A,
THE SHIP
COMMERCE,
Captain Wood,
freight on very mo
* derate torms, and (ail about
Uth wflant. Apply to the Captain on board at
I'Htuiicr a wharf, th
Willings y Francis,
Penn Street.
'i"vmSrr if,
AUGIiST U8 FRICKE;
oohenDraperSsfMen'sMercer
Ad. 7, fnuth Thirdflrect,
HAS received,
?" the la(l arrival f rijrl Europe, a larfce afTort
mint c.f t..c fafhionabte Goods in his line,
And conjlcnty ftr frl e a gcn(ral n j ort _
.. iotot cf 1
> nit rate London !uperfine Broad
Cloth. .
Cuftimcrc*
Veil Patterns nf altkir.d,
And every r ;her article in the gecflecian's line
t>y Aholelale »nd retail.
»leeiaibt. 1;
is For New Tork & Bojlon.
\ ' *^ e new ® LOOP
:l - PR E S I D ENT-PAC KF. T,
Jjiurs BKACHiTT,maJ!er.
f> WILL, fa 1 with all convenient speed—For freight
[I or passage apply to the mailer on board, lying at
Cfcrfnut-ftreet Wharf.
p- WHO HAS FOR sale,
71 On board said Sloop,
30 bbls. Of cod-oil fined quality
_ 10 do. of herring ard ihad
Few half do. mackrael
A small quantity offmoaked herring
60 bbls. of winter pears
[■ SCO© bunches of onions
' 4000 lbs. of excellent cheese,
:r, Philadelphia, d<c. i».
J -
Ship Broker's Office,
And Commijfun Store,
g, No. ijj, South front Strfft,
Next door to she Cuftoia House.
TMJE Subscriber, encouraged Dy the advice of
his friends, offers his service to the public
as a "-hip anr! Inluranct Broker.^—He propos
es to buy and fell veflels and every thing relat
— | n g thereto— allift matters of veflelS and others
in entering and clearing at the Cnftom House,
procuring and Clipping freight, fettling Iter
ance ar.d all other mercantile atc*unr&, and
have on hand the peceflary Blan ki and Stamps.
Papers in foreign linguagcs tranilated, ana in
torftiati.m gfrrrrTrt general mercantile . atte.s.
)f —From a knowledge gained by long experience
ot every branch of business he hopes to be tile
ful who pleafc to favor him their
commands. SAMUEL EMERT.
noverriber to :
For fate by the subscriber,
At Portsmouth (n.h.)
r . THE hull
tllllils N E W SHIP,
80 feet keel, 27 i-» beam, Ji feet hold, 5,10
between decks ; about 330 tons ; wirh ma(ls,fpars
ani' all the carpenter's and smith's work com
pleted ; built of go®d found seasoned timber and
plank ; launched in November, 1796, and has been
well taken careof'fince that time.—Further par
ticulars may be known by applying to Messrs.
Wharton & Lewis, Philadelphia, or to
THOMAS THOMPSON,
derembtr i\ taw.tf.
E FOR BREMEN,
SPEc!rLATfON~
a ß* n » Wutino, MAtxtt,
NOW laying at Henry Pratt's wharf, the firft
Race ilrea—fhe is a Bicmen bottom ; two
hundred and twenty tonb burthen ; will fail with
i all poflibfe dispatch—For freight or passage apply
PRATT & KINTZING,
no. 95, north Water-Jlreet.
Who have for faie, a variety of
GERMAN GOODS,
TIZ
Ticklenburghs Patcerbornes
Oznatrigs Checks
Hessians Stripes
Brown rolls Slippers
Cofftf bags Camfericks
P1 a 1111 as T wine
Brittinias Glass tumblers
Eftopailles Port wine
Creas ala Morlaix Window glass ,
Bieletield liner. Brimstone,&:.
Dorolas
december 13 th.fa .fne.3w J
FOR LIVERPOOL,
THE ARMED SHIP MOLLY,
slßurthen 340 Tons;
Well-found vessel, is now
{, ady to receive her Cargo, and wil!
dm the firll opening of the river.
i lircc- fourrhs ef hfr Loading being already pro
vided—for Freight for the remainder, or Passage, 1
apply to
NICKLIN & GRIFFITH.
dec. 13. tuth&s tf.
Nicklin & Griffith, ;
HAVE FOR SALE,
Sail Cloth by the bale or ffiece,
(No. 1 & 8)
One bale of fenming-twine
Copper in sheets, irom 14 by 48 to 48 by 60
inches f
Two tubs raised copper Hill bottoms '
Queens' ware, assorted in crates
London porter in bottles, contained in cases '
Empty port-wine bottles {
Yellow ochre in calks c
Cochineal in ferons
ludigo in do. & calks f
35 cafe J and trunks of muslins, ginghams, dimi- 1
ties, muflinets and pullicat handkerchiefs, in
small afTorted packages, calculated for the f
Weft India market
11 trunks printed callicoes .
4 !>al'S calEmeres, assorted /
t do. coarse woolens
Old Madeira wine c
Sheathing paper
English nails in calks, affortsd.
The Brig
AMAZON,
FOR sale or charter.
- December .9. m.w.&fa.tf (
NOTICE. <
A LI. perfone indtltci to the eftatc of Jamis '
Thompson, of the Indian Queen, Fourth
flrect doceafed. arc desired to mike payment to .
the fufcfcribers—and those who have any denur.ds
against tly said efiate.arc rrque.'ted to lend in their !
■icconnts <laly atteded for futrlement, to 1
MARGARET'THOMPSON,") AdniinWratrix. 1
JOHN THOMPSON, J Adminia«t»r.
dim
Massachusetts District.
BY virtue of a W arrant from the honorable Johi
Lowell, elq. Judge of the DiOrid Court f®
tha Biftrkl cf MaffachufetU, " There will be ej
posed te sale at Audion, at the Marflial's Office j
Bolton, on T tlefflay the firft day of January nt «
k t at eleven o'clock : a oenaui Bo: of Watches, fit
lt ed from the wreck of the ship Cohona, ftrjn-. ►
at Cape Cotl, and for which no claimant has a
('eared —" said Box of Watches are to Refold f
the payment of Freight, a«lv*ge, and other ckttf
es, and for the benefit of all concerned,—viz.
Tin Box } 40 Silver Watches
p a >37 °old data
J 4 Papers Trinkets
SAMUEL BRADFORD, marlhal,
of Mafiachufetts.
Dated at Boflon, ")
Dec. 6. 1798, J 17 dtZ4
REMOVAL.
George Dobson,
INFORMS his friends and the Public i* g*nel
that he has removed from No. 15, South' Vhd
j Street, to No 92, South fide of Market.street, nfr
the corner of Third Street, and is bow opeiig
a very extensive affortmieut < f
DRY GOODS,
. SUITABLE FOR THE PRESEXT SRAQN,
' WHICH HE HAS JUST RECEIVED,-
Per the lhipe William Penn, Amiable, and ane,
from London, ulid per Chelapeak and Thmas
from Liverpool,-and will be told low foitalh,
s or approved notes atafhort date, vis,
. London 7-4 Superfine Cloths ind
1 CalKtneres, fafltioqable coJquvs
' ' Yorkfture 7 4 do. and do.
•' Mixed and plain coatings
•: Kersey bcavtr, for Spencers
- Je.-jinets and Tabby cords
Vrlve'<and velvetteens
r Velverefs and thickfetn
7, 8, 4 4 and 11-8 cotton and linen chtks
7 8 and 4 4 bed tics
6-4 and 7-4 bed bunts
London chintz a-nd chintz furnitures
Furniture cottons
Do. dimities
Purole and chintz Jhawls
Silk' do.
Camels kair do.
Silk, cotton, andworfled hose
India and British muslins of every defcripton
Black and white srape
Tiffany and paper fans
Hats aflorted inlinall cases
1 Umbrellas
Poellngs and fattins
Laces and edgings
Ribbands
Silk Modes
: Superfine French cambrick
Cambrick nillflkw
Do. threads
Pulicatand Madras Handkerchiefs,
And an elegant ajfortrrtent of
Bruflels and Wilton Carpetin
" —l7 Jr.
DR^E>piACHis^
In barrels
Demijdhns 'y-
Claret . _
Porter, and > bottles.
Port Wine J
And Corks in Bales—For sale by
BENJ. W. MORRIS.
Dec. 20 C o6t
R. TAYLOR,
MUSIC PROFESSOR,
NO. 96, NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
RESPEI i I ULLY informs the Public that
he continues to t»acli Ladies the Piano
Forte as tifual.
N^v - 6 • tuihsa
BOOK-Kl KPING.
Wants a Place,
IN AN ELIG !BL;
ACCOMPTim;-. HOUSE or OFFICE,
A PERSON that Writes well, it a R&idy Reckr
oner, a pra&ical JJt>ok Keeper, ard can be
well recommended, a line, (or personal applica
tion) dirc&ed t* M. M, No. 71, North Seventh
llreet, will be duly attended to
N. B Books elofed, tml new Actompt« open
ed, PartHerlbip Accompts adjuftud, or any Uufinefs
in the ricok-Keeping line, done at the above place,
or abroad of Evenings.
dec 17
'" ■ i
Genteel Boarding & Lod'irg.
OEPAR IX and ready fjrnithed aurnncnis
U with genteel Boarding , n a Lodging for the ac
commodation of four Gentlemen (with their Ladies
if required) may be had at No. 1 6 a , Accb Street. '
Dcc - '4- ldfit
IHIR.Tr DOLLARS,
W LL be pild for a PP re ' le nding and lorfe-
V V ing many goal in the United States, toe
following deserters from the Delaware Sloop of
War, vnz. *
Thomas Jones, Teaman, formerly resided in
Meade Alley, Southwark, light bair, frelhcom
p.exion and blue eyes, about five-feel nine inch
es high.
Thomas Brown, ordinary seaman, about five
feet three inches high, Nght hair, g rfy eves and
Iwarthy, about n years of ageu also,
Richard Cn'.ven, ordinary seaman, about five
feet px inches high, aged twentv-three years,
light hair, blue eyes and fwarthv.—Culven and
Browniare both mtives of Philadelphia, and are
fuppoled to be concealed by some ot their ac
quaintance in this city.
STEPHEN DECATUR,
Commander of the Delaware
Sloop of War.
'' tc '7 rf6t
The Subscribers have fr sale,
r Malaga Wine, i:i quarter
■Red Port ditto, inPipe-i, Hhds andquartei-talks
Old Madeira ditto, fit for immediatj itfe
Freurli Brandy
•Spauifb .Titto, Oiot co'ored)
iMedpc Claret, in Cafei
Fir - fort Ifirglafs
: "i new Cubic. 9 inchrs
I ditto II incites I
I new Il.iwftr, 7 inche«.
Philips, Crmtmdy Co.
dec 1 7 r .
Juil Arrived,
V' In the Brig Eliza, from the Mediterranean, anU
now landing ar V\ r alnut Street wharf,
c j Fourth proof Brandy in Pipes.
1 Brimrtbne. i
■i An aflfortment of valuable DRUGS, |
a jf i
consistino OF I
a Opiam, Aloes, Canth»ride», Camphire, Senna, j
Cremof &c. &c. ,
" Effetico of Lemon rnd Bergamdt .'
Writing paper
Sweet oil iu bottles and flafkt
Olivet, anchovies and capers
Jurlper berries
AL. S o.—ltalian lutcftrings
Satitu |
Crapes
Umbreilas
Remaining on Hand,
St. Croix Sugars,
Claret in cases
Old Madnira Wins of the firft quality.
James yard.
j November 3 *5
BOND &bROOKs,
z
b Corner of Market and Si xthrrets,
HAVE RKC EI TED*
by the late arrivals from Loudon, Liver-
pool and Hull,
A LARGE AND CE.N'ERAL ASSORMENT OF
;• DRY GOODS,
I, Which they are now openirg for sale, at the mod
reduced prises, for calh or the usual credit. .
d nov. 17 §
Old Madeira Wine.
27 pipes of old Loudon particular
MADEIRA WINE,
n strong iron bound Hambre' calks, for
ale by ROBERT ANDREWS.
Nov. 30. eodtf
8 JAMAICA RUM, ~
A Cargo now landing <ll SouthJlreet wharf,
FOR SALE BV
P£TEg 11 LIGHT,
Apply at Scores 011 the Wharf,
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOX ULt,
BRANDY, ift and 4th proof
Madeira and Port WINES, .Sec. &c.
Nov. I. dtf
n NO TIC E,
PURSUANT to a Refotve of the Board of
Trufleeß of Washington Academy, in Som
erset county, Maryland, authorifmg William
Polk, efqr. majors Samuzl Wilsom, and
William [ones, Members of said Board, to
procure a principal tearher for (aid Academy.—
NOTICE is herct.y giveD, that a gentleman quail
fiad to teach the Greek and Latio Languages, Geo
graphy and the Mathematics, and futh other
branches of Literature as it is customary to teach
in such Schools, will meet with liberal encourage
ment and itispreiumed will be well aacommodat
e«l in taking charge of this Academy. The build
in? is fpacibus and will accomodate at least sixty
r* Students.
~ Proposals may be ailreflcd to John Dennis, No.
161 Arch-street, Or William Winder, accountant
in the Navy department) Walnut Greet, Philadel
— "bin— w- tn citi""'* the three gentlemen above
-mentioned, near Princess Anne, Maryland.
dec *7 $
wj'iVT E^D:
Convrtifent Lodgings, for an elderly
Lady, in a refpe«3able private family, where
there are no children. Enquire at this office.
dec 4 d:m
John Dobbin,
J I BOOT Ssf SHOEMAKER.
RES PEC TFULLY informs his Friends and
Jhe Hnblic in general that he carries on his
fittfineft at No 99 South Secontt-/ir?ct, nearly op
posite the Merchints Coffee house whsre gen
tlemen maybe RipplLed is the neatefl and befl
manner —heaffiires :ht)ft »li 6 may please to fa
vor him with their commands that no aweßtion
br exertion oil Ills fide (hall be wanting to reader
liim worthy of theif encouragement.
N. IV. Orders received will at
tended to.
November 5 4
; ; notice:
A LL persons who have any demands against
. -ljL |iie estate of uie late Wii.li.im
deceased.and who have not-already produced their
. their ireeouncs, ire reqiieftsd to fen.J them to the
- s luJsfcriber at no 17a, north Second ftrcet.
; t ELIZABETH TUCKER, Adm'x
Philadelphia, nov. 29, 1798 m&th4w
JOHN SHIELDS,
broker,
:? Emirates this opportunity to present his thanks
() to his fellow-citizens for their paji favors
and acquaints them that he it returned from
Chefnut-HiU, to his former residence, the
- House ho. a. CUefnnt between Front
and Second-street,
WHERE. he holds hitnfelf ready to execute
their commands in everv branch of his
f profeiflon, trusting that from a residence in this
city of 35 years he has it in his power to render
i them tffewial service, alluring them tbat hit
commiffidn fhallbe as luw in Town.
* Eotts, Las'ds, Houses, V'effels, Certificates
of every description and Bills of Exchange,
. bought and fold, thedocketrs carefully exam
j ined and clear titles made upon the (hortefl no
tice, by the public's humble servant,
. Jobs Shields.
, Cj* Good negotiable Notes discounted
j a low premium.
. november 7 3awtf
FOR SALE, i
ard, with abx>ut thirty two acres of i
Land, at Rock-Run, on the Head of the
Tide water of 3ufquehannah, in Harford county '
Maryland, wiereon is fynk feventy-fivc Vat. a 1
Stove Mill and Tan House, with conveniences'of 1
at«x and other ncctlTaries for an extensive Yard ;
a Dwclling-Houfe, Kitchen and divers other ufeful'
building is erefltd thereon, some of the land» ut 1
lots well improved, a gopd Herring Fishery on the
ftiore. The improving Town of Havre de Grace
is about fix miles distant and vessels comii, K down
the River, pass dole fcj the premises. A conve "
ntent fituanon to get Bark, a (leek oi which with
the utentils forTanntng, and all the hides the
Vats may be had with the Yar.J. For terms apply 1
tojoltn W- tlf.il, pear Harford Town, or the Sub- '
I lcribcr on the premifc*. <
IS % .AC WILSON, !
Vitbxo.Mth Mw . w
NOTICE.
rat copartnership or
HUDSON y YORKE,
is this day diflolved by mutual consent. All per
ions indebted to Cud tJrm are reqaelled to mak«
immediate payment—and those who have lay de
mand's are requeued to present them f»r fettlewenc
' ts WILLIAM HUDSON, who it duly authorised
to adj'ift the lame.
WILLIAM HUDSON,
SAMUEL YOR ICE.
WILLIAM HUDSON,
no. 54, Noam r*ONT-»Tai«T,
Has for I'iila on the ulual tsrwis, a very
extensive affoitmcnt of
DRY GOODS.
Dec. 10. jw.
FOR SALE ~~
By the Sub/cribers,
ON VERY LOW TKRMI
WAX CANDLES,
OF A SUPERIOR QlfAllTV,
Either by the ot 24ibs. or by the (|uan«
tity.
Willings Francis.
Nov. 24
WO't'l c~E:
ALL Persons indebted to the Eflats of doe
tor Hugh Hortg», deceal'ed, are requetled
5. to make immediate payment—>rrd tfiofe having
■demands against the Estate are del'red to authen
ticate and (wefent them to.
MARIA HCDGE, admimjlratr'iK.
SAM UEL HOD GDE N, admintjlrator•
nov 20 £
r Notice is hereby Given,
T 'HAT application will bj mads aj the I'rea.
L fury ef Ile United Suucs, for the renewal of
. the following cer-ificatcs of funded Debt, (land
ing iu the name p* Robert Whitworth, of Chellea,
London, thefaid Ctrtificatfs having been lorward
' cd by the ship Elliee, purvey, from London for
New-York, captured by theFrsnch, and fimpofod
to be lo&. » "tr „
No-11437, 6 Per Cent. Stock, dated New-
York, 18th April, 1)96, i»r Dollars. 1481,47.
No. 8171, 3 Per Cent, dated New-York,
18th April 1796, for doHars 400.
SAMUEL MILBANK.
Rovemher 18 j^w
>f Notice is hereby Given,
That application will be made at the
Bank of the United States for the renewal of:
the following certificates of Bank flock, (landing:
_ ia the name of Hodgfbn Atkinlon of London*
which were loft from on board the Swallow Pac
- 3" ket, capt. Kidd, captured by the French, and all
cr per ion i conscrued arc defiredto take notice.
;h No. 2474, issued in lieu of No. 1891,
e- 1892, 5662 and 16640, for 4 fbare«.
t- No. 3020, issued in lieu of 11055, antl
d " 11057, for 3 Glares.— 7 {hares.
THOMAS M'EUEN figT Co.
o. nov - » 3 d3tn
»t JAMES & RICHARD SMITH,
:i ~ TTAVE thiiday rttoraid from the country to
**■ their STORE, No. 54, South-Front flrect,
where they heve for sale, as usual.a large and g«-
_ aeral aflortment of European and Eafl-India
DRT GOODS,
[y moQ of which have now arrived and are landing,
re f ™ ra the different vessels, from Ha*bar e fc Lon
don, Liverpool and Hull.
Their Customers by applying will find almost
- tv "y article generally imported, ir»l «, s i ow
prices for cash or credit,as fkey <aa be had elie
where.
N. B. A few Cases of Nurenbergh TOYS a
|d conCgnment, to be fojd by the cafe only,
is Philadelphia, Nov. i, 1708. dtf
English wrought Nails."
J *>»P°rt<d in th. /hip, Molly and Diana, from
tlVEHroilL.-
; r 4.00 Calks of Nails,'
of fid, Bd, iod, 1 2 «J, and
t . VJ iod, flaupnirit. suitable for the fouthem
"Tir ,0 ' 1 ' lld ' anrilod >fineawwn
l "T- *' *» *' a " d * > louts-fpries—
- lucks—fsupper nails—fheathrfg nails, & c .
roR sale by>
4) Robert Denifon, junr.
ir I*7 Market-ftrect.
'« For Sale,at the Stores ofthelSubl
fcribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
195 calks of n til; afTorted
- ' jo bales ef fail canvas.-, from No. Ito 8
$ 3 calks yellow ochre
« J tierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 fa ca ch
London particular )
fj India market j Madeira Wines
Tenpnffedo. in hogfheadsand pip
OM Fort do. in hhds.
Empty Chret bottles
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Muftineto Sic.
afTorted for the Weil-India market
e J' ?°> 9 inch cablesand iol coils of cordare
is Writing fiates, ink Hands aad presses
j s 1© purcheons Jamaica rum
, r I bale seaming twiue
j g 160 bundles fheatl.ing paper
Nui/i/f & Griffith.
; s _ a i£±l t U^&f.tf
1- TO BE SOLD,
'■ P™ S " ANI ; t0 ,h: hr - "■» -i test amci:t of
A Michail (. at rs.deceafed,a valuable
Plantation & Traft of Land
° n . C f U,norc ; ard threr acre.,
the Tcfiaror s late refldence, Cu.atcd in North
.bufquejjanna Hundred, Ccoci! county, Maryland,
about three nulc from ,h= „f *
hanna, and at a crnvcniiot fr „ m
rP On ,°h^rt ! r P h «'"%t«e„s.
e On the T*.n-y«rd ia £ convenien
' "?i2"" w
, proportion of Wluahlc timber
1 ,•„!£ ,Crm .* lp, ' y **, ,fte frt<cri|>er I.iil 1 .iil W.ft-No,.
n tingham, about 3 miles from the premifr.
f ... WJ "" NC '
• Insurance Company of tbt state if Pcmi.yf.
i' va&ib. . ,
J AMES Prefi x nf.
d'l4/Dcleivarc Sff Schuylkill Canal.
THE Stockholder* arc hereby notified, that the
Eleflioa tar Preiidcnc and Managers, for the
ttufHing year, will be held zt the Company's OiSc
on tfce f»i ft I«coii:i-<jay in January n«jU, at ten
o'clock in the forenoon.
SusquchanHa & Schuylkill Canal.
THE Stockholders are hereby notifeJ,' chat the
, Eleition for l'refid«rK and Managers, for the enfu
iug year, will be held at the Company'* Office, or
the firft second-day in J»nu4i)T «eit ac ten o'clock
A.M.
GEO. WORRALL, fec'y
t» Delaware y Schuylkill Canal Cdmbanv.
dee 19 ,; te
~tße forms,
AS prescribed by theCommifiiehers of Penji»
fyltanla, for the return of DWELLIJTO
HOUSES, LANDS and SLAVES, may be
had .t
Jtfcpb isf James Crttckshank'j,
No. 87, Market Street.
P ec ' 10 t fit
tost
A B UN C H OF KE YS,
RETURN them to No. 7, South Fourth
Street, and be rewarded.
- ec 2a dtf 1
To be Bold, !
TV time of a/tout healthy Negro Lad, aged •
about 17 year>, and bound ,to le-»e until 21; '
he is boi'eit, underffan :s th* 'ifirtt btilineid »f a 1
family, ami has beea accultorned to wait on 1
'.alie—Anjdv to f
' BENJAMIN r. Morgan, 1
No. 41, Arch ftrett.
dtiemlcr 19 d6t <?
FLOUR, FOR SaLE,
DELIVERABLE at i v 'ew-Caft}e or Port '•
Penn, by
LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH & SON.
. ll<c '9 . - d 4 w
IRISHL IN ENS,
4-4 7-Bth White Linens \veil->
affo etd \ Khritied
3-4 Brown ditto ditto C t o the
3-4 If 'lll Ch'-cquus suitable for the \ Drawback
Weft-India Market. J }
FOR .SALE,
On reafcuable 'err.-s—by the Box or Bale, ' mi
By (ja mdle £s* Hel muth, an
No. 148, Sou:h Stconc-ilre, t.
' - dfC 3'awtl
John J. Parry, th.
CLOCK b 1 WATCHMAKER, sh
11/ IS attain opened at his ufsal Stand, No. 3 S,
Smith Secondj!reet—ivbere be has for Sale, '
A VARIETY OP
Excellent Gold cs* Silver Watches,
AND. A FEW
Eight Day Cclocks,
Which will be warranted to give fatisfaMon. 1
An aflortment of f n "
Cold, Steei and Gilt chains, Seals and Keys, is d
All kinds of Clod and Hatch lutork done <with yeai
particular attention as heretofore. out
ty An Apprentice wanted. Sal.
novemker It m.w'd'f w.
Bank of the United States inth
November 19, 1778. - j
NOTICE, 1
' pflE STOCKHOLDER „f the Bank of the M
L United States are informed, that according to
tin S:uU»reoflncorpora!icn,a GeneralEle&ion for S"' 7
twenty-five Directors will be held at the Bank ot' !
"he United Statc«, in the City of Philadelphia, on
Monday, the ;th of January mxt, at 100'clockin
the forenoon.
And purfuati: to the eleventh of the bye £)
law", tre .stockholder* of the laid Bank are also r
notified to aflctnblc in general meeting, at the '
- faine place, on Tueftjay, the Bth sf January next,
»t 6 o'clock in hi evehing.
G. Simpson, Cashier. .f '
Second Fundamental Article.
Net more thin three fourths ef theDireflon in Ro
office, mclufive of the President, fliall be eligible Vices,
lor the aei;t ensuing year, but the Dire&or who ces an
fba 'be PreliJent at the time of au eltflion, may e S B'
always be re elected. fniall
povemberiA m.tE gtil »
• No. 128; 7
The south eajl corner of Market and Fouth gold,
jlreets,
JACOB COX,
HAS just received by the late arrivals from
Europe, a lai>;e, general and elegant as
sortment of'the mod , 1 I
Fafliionable Merchandize, ing th
(in the gentlemen's line) —The whole of which fc
will be dilpofed of, wholesale and retail, at re
duced prices forcafl).
dec- 19 lawtf
TO BE LET,
\ N£ AT, coi-ixnient twp-Hory frame HOUSE
/ and BAKE-HOUSE,fituated in south F«urth cc
ftiect, below German llre«t—The hoiife is in com- Pbila
plctc ori'er, having two rooms on a floor, with a '
Vpatious garret; the lot is 19 1-1 feet front en
Fourth flrcet, ami ill l-ifeet deep.
Apply to
CHRISTIAN ;BETZ, AR
co i? 5, Mulberry flrcet. <
N B —As the property belorgi to orphan chil- enfuint
drfn, it is that good fccurity will be given Ol > Mo:
lor thi rent.
Phi'«<'elphia. ilecember 11, 1798 dec
N O T I~C~E7
THE Public ar« cautioned not to trirft any of j,
tbep«ople belonging to theSwedifli Snow Maria, " aTe '
011 my account. 1 1
Hans Olof Koch, master•
_ dec _ l? - A-r Ah r'
*jo hhds. Santa Cruz Sugar p e
OF excellent quality, (in Stores of John Nixen,efq,
and Co.) A quantity of
SAIL CANVASS,
and a Box of Ma»e, for falc, by
STEPHEN KINGSTON,
dec 11
NOTICE. dec ,
PURSUANT to the last will and teflament
of Lindsay Coats, will
:>c fold by Public Veujue, on Thursday, the
ri.ird day of January next, at ten o'clock in ARr
rhe torenor 11, at the hnule of Thomas Lowry, J\ f.
(sign of the Bird in Hand) in Upi;e<- Merion pk:i,j.,
'J'oMnftio, Montgomery l unty G .
A valuable Grill Mill, fyivauia
AND ABOUT w (hall not
Twenty-five acres of Land, for' T &
Situate in ihr said township, fevrrai acrej of T !
whith arcmeadoA', and 'lie preattr plrt flf the hav-' ap
cmainder wcHl land.—The'ccnditior.s cf sale Jtrusry
xii/bc raade known bv v- ,
RAC.HLL COATS, Exeoitrix.
T» r <- ; to fth.wfa.3t dec 1
wiamm "Just PubliJhcJ
bv Thomas "dobson,
Dial. At the Scone-tioulc, no. 4i,fout!i itcoiiu-flreet
that tile Phil .di li-.:ia
. for the ENCTCLOPJEDI.'I :
I o:t, a
at tc " DICTIONARY
I A R T S an o SCIENCES,
that the I AND
l»ecnf u . MISCF.LLANEUUS LITERATURE,
Ilice, on I On a plan entirely NSrr.
o'alock I nv which u
THE DIFFERENT SCTENtffiS AND ARTS
Are digtlkd into the Form ofDiftim t
mpaty. TREATISES or SYSTEMS
Comprehending
I THE Hillory, I'heorjr, and Practice, of each
F Penp' I * acor d>"g t0 '.he latest difrovems and i.nprove
Ll!"fc j l " cnt,! an J full exiiJanari 'nigiven »f the I'aricf,
lay be I Parti tf K<no-withe, whether relating tc
I natural and artificial objects, «r to matter,irfclcfi
-1) I a, " r '<'al, eiril, military, commercial, &c. 'fnclnd
e I liig elucidation of the moll important topics res
tive to religion, morals, manners, and the ticano-
Tit my of iile: together with a description of all the
I countries, cities, principal mountains, leas, rivers
&c. throughowt the world ; a ge«eral history, M
', . I at,d —d'm, of the different empires, kint
ourtn doms and ftatc.; and an account of th» lives cf
I the most eminent perfoos in ev«ry> nation, frooi
dtf the ear ieft ages d»wn to the present times. Com
— piled from tke writing of the best authors, in se
veral laaguages ; the most approved dictionaries,
aged I as well o< general fcicnceasot particular branch
[ 2 | . I cs; the tranfa«9ions, journals, and memoirs, of
»f a earned societies; the MS. lectures of eminent pro
lit on lc "°f « n different ciences; and a variety of ori- I
I grna. materials, furnilkcd by an extensive corre
( I IpoHdence.
tt. 1 '"" he wor ' l now completed in eighteen large
16t ? uarto v °l«mcs, illuDratcd with five hundred and
I torty-two copperplates.
Ihe few copies which remain on hand ace of-
Port l«red forlale at
135 dollars for the 18 volumes in boards
N. dollars neatly bound in (keep leather
w dollarshapdfomcly hound in Calf
ieJ T. DO AS ON,
be h ASJUST OPENED a
lack. , SUBSCRIPTION,
For Publishing a Supplement to the Wofif
I he objeiS of which is to correit such mis-state
ments as have been found in the Work, and togive
f t an account of the most important discoveries and
t . approvements which have been made for the lad
t | ten years.
It is expefted this will consist of
three volumci, on futli paper and type as the En- '
> tycfcped'a, at SixDoliar, per volume, in boards.
, Six Dollars of wh K h to be paid o;i fubferibinff,
38. dec M aawftw
A SHORT AND PRACTICAL 1
»s, essay,
on t
/ARMING:
'on. the experience of a farmer ot about sixty v
years of a>'e ; neav forty years of which werefpent a
in England, Ess, county, on land where farming
ys. is done in the grea-eft perfedion : and nearfeven n
'th y ears on thrce huncjred and twenty acre« of worn- rl
oyt luud in Pottfgreve aad Alloway,creek, in
bai ; m county, Weft.Jerley : '
. .Shewing the means whereby Uiefe worn out
~ ""proved ; and that the means are
,j. in the potfei of almolt every fanner:
Printedfor the Author, , '
akb sold
BY ZACHARIAH POULSON,
)e Chef nutflreet, Philadelphia ' T
:o ,' h u ,ar «° fort of Clover feed t
Mr john c cr ' ? - ba, - r . »o, .5a j?
'I d.c-mb«r ij, -~ii^4s=
F.phraim Clark,
:«= clock y watch maker, 1
Corner of Frout and Market ftreefs, Philadelpliia, 0 f
t, HAS JUST RECEIVED, fur
P Y the different arrivals, a large supply of Clock
XJ and Watch makers and Silver Smiths Tools fer
nles and materials," me
eoNSHTiNc or die
II ~,R ow' !n 2 ! V,ills - lar Re and small Bench and Hand >ow
e Vices, .urnbenches, Plyers, Sliding Tongs, Bra Yoi
■> c " * n . d Orooviny tools, Saws, Scratch br.lb- Ko
f rn* It w P ' P "' S^f C T ln<i Draw Fl»-es, large and ,
fniall Hammers, Ciupk dials, cast brass Bells, for- M n
ged w#rk and pinions, E nery, Rotten stone, Pu- ,
mice (lone, Borax, Spelter Sorder, Brass, Steel and
Iron wirt!, Ihret Brass, main spring* and elalfes
' R°'d gdt, and steel chains, seals and keys,&c. &c.
C/*ClocksandW atches carefully repaired
HOV. 21 , .
i eodtf An.
A Ring of Small Keys.
Was loft yeflcrday afternoon— any pcrfan delirer
ing thein at ihi> office w : |l be rewarded
dec tx
4t At I
14 Pipes Madeira Wine, E
for sale by v '
Crooke Stevenson, n
dec u N ° 4 " S ° U,h w,,er - ftre «- for 1
—- 5_ call
Philadelphia and Lancaster Turnpike Road
Compaq. 2;>
ARP I TH L E st ?ckholders, l d ,
AfilV C J n d ,ha: an Eleai °n for Fre- p re f«
f . fi,lent > Managers ml other officers for the Dt,
ensuing year, will be held at the Compan" s Offic!
on Monday the 1 4 th January n. Xt at t, n o'clock
dec aa M ' GOVErT . Secretary. -J2
- m&tuaw
7be Sub/cribers AND
Have received by i he Clothier from Liverpool
A co_Nf CK „ t « T or T,w Casts op
W ell Assorted Buttons, P 01
About jol. ftcrling each Cafe, which the, wiU atten
difpefeof per package, on librral term,. 1
m o Bedford Iff Willi,. in Co
No. 78, Nor.h Front near Arch ftrect. feßt '
——— tativa
WANTED,
ABOUTfifty Cafksof
Flag Annatto or Rocoa,
Apply as above. '
«gc 21 E5
the Creditors. At
Of JOHN M'DONtLD,
A dc . Of '"'l./.MIHIIA. OS
RE hereby notified, that applica t i 0n ..
Court of Common Pleas, for the county of
x-nuad«rlphia—for th* benefit #f the A*> .k
General A ffembiy, #f th. Common
iylvaiiia, providme that the ivrr«n rT,
stall not be liable to imprisonment for debt aft" *
del,™ up his estate for the benefit of his cred"
"ini r "iu. 4 u 4ay ° f ril - do His
» 1798, and that the of filrl n
tav, appointed M ,
Jt..uiry nr:. fcr a hearing of said M'n 11
,OHN "Donald gg;
* fwcdjt n.v
(tec 19.
;• '
DT RICT OFPENMYLFsINU, TO WIT:
r,
i-Breet,! BE lT hemhmbered,
,/sft THAT on the tenth clay
&L. 5.2 <rf December, in the twenty thifd
» year of the Independence of thi* U
* nited States *i America, JOHN
LAMBERT of the said Diftrfit, hsth depoiited ia
_ this oliice the title of » bock, the right whereof he
I S, :lain:sa» author in the Wi rut. following, to wit:
" A fli'irt and practical Essay on Farming ; be
i£, ' ii.g the experience of a farmer ef ahout sixty j
' years of age, near forty yuars of v hich were
(pent in tngiand, JJffex county, on land where
\RTS farming is done in the greatelt perfection,
nt ani near fevea years on three handled and
' Vf 1 twenty acres of worn-rut land in P> tt(grove ard
J1 * a Alloway creek, in Sa'em,county Weit-Jerfey— ,
" .Skewing the means whereby these worn-cut
>f each, landt may be improved; and that th < means are (
nprove- 1 -ip the power of alnmil every farnnr." ' \
l'ario;it In conformity to the aft of the Congress of c
iting to tilt-United States, intituled " An ail f>>r
ftclcfi-j the enconragementof learning, byfecuring
Inciad j the copies of maps charts and book' to the t 1
cs authors and proprietors of such copies du- j c
xcanv- ring tha terms therein mentioned." |
>" 'he D, CALDWKLL. si
rivers Clerk of the Dijirid vf Pennsylvania. 4
kin"' dllt: - '3 _ '**- 4 w
■»« cf Ready Eurnijhed apartments. 1
Com- rj
in fe- T0 LET » READY FURNISHED, *
jarre% i TRONT Parlour and four chambers, with * (
•a nc h_ A tjic use of a Kitchen and Cellar, ia a
rs of »art of Arch ftro.t ; enquire at the office p
t pro- la
ifori- "f. B. —As the furniture is all new, it precludes Q .
:orre- "7 a PP r ehenfien of contagion fr«m the late pie- (
tiling fever,
large Member it eodn
izni NO I ICE.
Q\MUEI. RICHARDET, informs the Gentle
e ON Omen Subscribers, that the EXCHANGJiI
i» cencd for their recep.ion; and the CIT t \ tl
r TJVE RN, for Gentlemen and Travellers— Icl
Lu( Spring added an addition of twelve Bed I
Chaiberato the fide bailding, which makes it I
perfwll) convenient.
_ wvember 6 thaw |S'
A capital fland for Bu/inejs. £
TO BE RENTED,
°™ AND POSSESSION GIVEN, I
atc ~ On the %th day of February. [
®' V j 'THE commodious Four Story Brick Houfeon I a! -
V'n * tl* South fide of Market, near Water- I
J ftret, at present occupied as a Tavern, by Tho- jni
. , ms Palmer. For terms, Enquire at the office dc
Vn Gazette. I
r-n- , ji
rds. 1
v Dancing SchooL ed
- „ 1H
WILLI A -M M'DOI JGALL prdents his ref
pcilful Compliments to the pubtic : take* I on
thelihertyof informing ihcm, that at the requelt J £\
of l>any of his former employers, he will open I t j l ' !
■ hisScuoot, at hit Bali, Room, in Fourth, bet-4 /
x y wem Ciefnutani Walnut streets, on the firfl Mm- j
nt day of Dscember—For Yqung Ladies at ten I
o'cock in the morning— and for GeHtlemeri, at |
rn ' fix in the evenings of Moudays, Wedccfdayj and 1 (in
Frilays. I ~ 1
111 ■ ' ov - 18 rorm j
lut Hats is? Holieryf I ton
XL I 2li
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL, cit :
AT HIS STORE, tlle
H N0.'134, Market StREEr. I P le
AS JUST Ot'ENED, in laitinati
n-er (lock, a very extensive alTortni«it of of
■d Men's, Vomen';, and Children's Hats, and all I
1 kini»«f Stockings—particularly a quantitx_aL A- | fl.;,
bcrd * g n fttrit Hpfr ftiitable for the jrTIU nt fealon I " '
' - y co ■ m the
Notice is hereby Given,
applicjtion will be made at the Trea-
a f U fu 7,f f l . he Unitc< l States for the renewal "
r ~ ™'° wln P certificates of Six per Cents, J
funded debt-Handing in the name of Robert nan
k H ilfau oi Calcutta in Bengal, Surgeon in the J 3 "
3> lemce of the honorable United Company of j boa:
merchants of England trading to the Eaft-In- I a fe
dies, which were loft from on board the Swal- C ov
d low-Packet, capt Kidd, from Falmouth to New -r
'■ l ork. Z)qllj I
* No 10,454, Reg. office 14th Dec. '' j ton '
i IJiJ, one certificate for Ij,, ~ I take
No 10,478, Reg office 17th Dec. [the
I 1 793. one certificate for , 9J9 J0 S
s Ellijion £s* John Perot. | poG'
— noY i eod6w I
1 This Day Publijhed, ~ Ba £
And for sale at the Office of the Editor, No. of A
119 Chefnut-ftreet,
(**" of a holarj T :
4 N 0 R AT I 0 AT, J<
• Pronounced July 4, jjqg take:
' tHe Inhab,tan, » of the Town of and
i" cortlß,cmnr *tion of the anni- was
verlary of American Independeece. died
„ . £ y 7°*ub %yr*cr. Ja
for reOarlrJn* Tk UP ° n ° Ur PUblic ca!l nei S'i
, Juftiee, may yet he obtained, by Union, Spirit,
»nd F,rm«tn But to d, w le ahd ccnL'Jl
the maxim of the Devil in the garden of Hdln IS 1
Pie of I'U"l e "' larl '' hatl ' betn the P rinci " ,naik
present. «k« period to the I Tl
Obnrvativu on the Bostoi Port-B,!!, & c .p. ,g Zdl
Mguft jm. IL . a .;
"" ■ affon
his Day is Published, the d
and,O*, al „» uul - e!
AN ADDRESS Th
* * tke . p ™ple of Maryland, an ad
ON the •ngin, progreis and prefcß- ft,t e „f clothl
at r tempt!?olgrad e rtcG" ° f the mfam ° U3 , Ut '
States, and feme „ ,5. Governme nt of United have
in Co S tr ttentrrr lervci
caeivts. £ nc rtouie of Rcprefen- Cottcj
~ —• — * june it I 16^
Pkinting Work that '
EXECU ?/ \^ry t Kind, ' ££
executed at the shortest Lfly
oa „ States, f ' ,r ° ni '
»3. one ol
~~i 1~~~~ —— — which
* r encb Language. the ye;
_ traced
DIJFIZF, it had
No. 63, South Second Street trodl,i
' W| li oun ' - it: int
is DA 1 and EVENING SCHOOI thc P c
and Tra.fla.'iomVom'e'S, <° as ufu -' »r ,
other, perfo-mtd with L » n guage into the , 0,1
difparch. d W " h " ccurac T. secrecy, aO(J the
a >l. 10 thougl
«w I at the t
'VIT: ■ ■■■ ■ ■ . 1
%\)t (Bajttte.
3 PHILADELPHI
If u
jHn MONDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 14..
:ed in
of he —O
it:
> k c " to The
I?* LEGISLATURE
fhcre , (Continued.)
:lion,
' 3 GIiNTLKMEX,
£ A young man who lodged in 3d, near
a - oat Walnut-street, that was 111 the fw-jce of .JVlr.
1., are Cl:mens, whole bufincls led ljiiti among tijc
vessels and wharves,' was attackeci tiic 30th
°' r of July, and died the Saturday t'ollowitig.
One of the crew of the Deborah alio died
„ the in Race, near Fourth-itreet, under the care
5 du- ; of Dr. Keiinly.
The Marquis De Rouvray, \vho came pai
feager in her, died on the 23d of July—and
a boy, belonging to her, a few days after. -
v The Coni'ulting Phylician of the Port men-
S. tioned to the College of Phy-iicians, that one
of the crew of the Deborah died at the Ma
rine Hol'pital, and that while the lliip per
formed quarantine, lhe had been frequently
iin a walheu, and lime wuMied ■ and every
>ffice particular had been complied with that the
law directs—.Hence the law, and not the
me- ot^cers ' i' ai 5 ' JI the prel'eiu iiiftance, been in 1
fault. 1
,t In lei's than a week after the deiblating
malady lird apixrared at Thompson's and ;
itle- a coniiderabie portion ol the neigh- 1
5 £ bourhood became infected. The majority of <
rr thele were apprentice lads and merchants' '
s— I clerks, occupied in itores and warehouies 111 ■
Bed I that neighbourhood. * i
Dr. Duriey alio visited a boy named Dag- t
v I g ct ) dl of the fever, on board the ichooner '
~ I John from Boston, in that neighbourhood, t
' Jon the 25th or 26th of July ; irom whom »
I Mr. Lloyd and hi 1 ; apprentice J oini 1
J appear to have received the contagion, as they j l '
j were both onboard at the time ofhis iltfleis, > f
;on and iickened early in Auguit. li
er- I I liree manners on board a lliip (Nan- h
ho- J r.ings, mailer) from Hamburg, a lit*:!e
See down, were attacked with the fever on the 11
. 29th of July—and ths mate and one more, 0
__ j two or tliree days after. Dr! Cnfrie attiinrf- - 1
J ed all thele till the Ihip weighed iuchor und j
j left the port. I it
• e f_ The Deborali was towed up to Keniington i "
ke* I oil the 28th of July, and fattened to George i 0
lelt Eyes's wharf, nearly oppo'lite the middle of si
,c 3 I th'at village, where Jhe remained till the Sth P
of Auguit. V,
en Jt appears from the accounts collected by w
at ) pr. Daniel De Beneville, reliding in Ken- lc
nd iington, and conununicated by letter to Dr. ' r
Grillitts, that Joieph Strefton, the firft per- '" c
1 ion that had the Yellow Fever at Keniing
ton, had oeen en board the Deborah on the
21 1* ol J ul y» while ilie iay at a wharf in the
city,—was taken lick on the 29th, and died
I ot. Auguit. Jamci Porter, an ap- tu
prentice to Joieph Gnce, »hn I JVC d
next I
of ol Auguit, and died on the 12th. James
M l Allw.ere, an apprentice to William Yard. o{
jk'P " r i*" ter > lived nearly oppoiite to K e
the wharf where the ihip lay, and who had *>•
worked on board while lhe iay ,n the city,
a " oTthe 01 ' thC ° f AUgUft ' dled "■
Si I r 1
s ' Ke "' orKt " Adams ' and a lad 4"
r ' T Simons, all fellow apprentices «wi.th
ore ' and ''ad alio worked on th <
>1 board the Deborah, were aU three taken sick do
i: :: re t yS aiter J^ es e, and all re- f
r - r . rca - , . doi
Iwo labouring men of the name of Sut- cit
ton, that worked on board the Deborah were dec
Samuel Baker, whole house is nearly op- Coi
EkS3;^
lick the 3d of August, and recovered. in i
Baker's Wh ° fdsdes near Samue l ° P *
, , . S ' ' vas taken w:th the fever on the cth the
tl-e^th U h ? h ' S Wif ' C a " d hou le-keeper on wa :
the iatter of whom died. F rv
taken with th^ 6 f f °" ° f Samuel Bak "» d °
W , lth th , c on the 7 th of Aucuft
i was tlLnVl s l h ' Samuei Baker's wife niei
Lr ,he " ,hof ™
I Jane Newman and many others in the mei
neighborhood of the wharf where the Deborah ori 8
Jf y ' al 0 tHOk disease and it gradually Tht
S b L conl t on OVer the "*£££; as v
(as it the ■ arrlval ofthe f a ; °f"
U#' S." y :° ;hc »■ 1 * :
in a PP earan « of the disease whk
a'id h arC t US ; HoOk and Wilmington, tl
j eicapi. of Baltimore and of all tl-e Clty
SS Southward of Baltimore* alft bc ' c
the diiSfc w a lnCo " teftible argument that
cauf'es but f dCrived irom ; - td
That fib [° m ' mportcd con tagion. the 1
an adfive COnta ff ,on ,na y be retained in rcce i
clothVn n ' a "y wctks ' not onlv in the ble 1
but i^A^ s^. Uk-fever, d °^
have the t,o aad timbers of veiTel.t we the 3
ftrvcr ° ,ly ° f the nitll "rrea ob- wi »
. , plen!
cotton Yr ""I"" that a of infected P id -
160, '' Po o . ln t o Bermudas in the year us
that tl® r • ?. m :o a fcver malignant, tions
that the living Icarccly fufficed to bury the SH " 4
plague vh h T unp " loned ,eed3 of the A:
.earlv 60 de Poptilated and deftroved the »
traced to im b >' Dl - was br2tlc
it Sj prevTlT' 0n fr ° m Holland ' n
troduftE^ 0 '? 0^5 its in- Dt
f-ondon —Hifto.-iar.s afci.be =
Dr. p" X r' (T '''" : ' ti inrnt £iven bj' (3^!
which ioin-'-f X a board of on Rac
ed *he Crew had died, introduc- 1
•-? : n =
->tth^^; m c, ou luk person onoor.rd
' tne time of l>cr arrival
55=5 To pre tern! in Amer".,
; ting the mad malignant«?\ a lfeifc e*.
ta gious is ijiconfiftcnt with tt\ S ' S notc »3-
r- come under the notice 0 f ' t wl " c ht<
-vouldbe an „utn,;je upon co^,±,
,nd,f fudyr, H
14.. m has been di ui >:ited by the . e >*
<'i Ction of vcty bte experience.
To the Regimental V,™
NT A. SIR, Wct ».
AS you have undertaken t„ ,
the Legislature of this State
jedof the Yellow Fever, and'ha?V U '
near to prove that it is always imported 7^
i JVlr. you will permit one who has had f,' **s
tijc l u 'ie to be much among it t oh- D " S '' o
30th enced more than once its croei atr! eXp °'
lg. 'who has thought much upoj, tjfe " k . 3 ' a w
died 'K origin ; togfre you % little &£***
care ; When a writer attempts toiinpoij^,
ions dr aflertions upon the w&,lj ,
. pnl'- cially, when he undertake, to
—-'-nd g'llative body, ,t ,s to bt fu PPoled " <Jt '
: r . has some thing new to communicate ■
men- fad with regard to your pub!, cat,or
tone terday in this gazette, is, that the'
Ma- ling'e sentiment or obfcnitior. w 1
per- before been repeatedly urged b'
• atly luppor't the daftri/ie of i»n
very which has not been as repeat
: the Vour peiec is indeed, l i;t ,V
the ral tranfeript of one whir .
tn in cupine's Gazette of Lift ' . ' *\ 1 '
Citizen," and which r
ting was a:»onymouS} and , ' 1
and afiertion. Your b'.
igjj. vinces me you ha' . , on "
Yof que/tion ; and , t , ie 18
nts' ilnctly fafe in r . 2ni
sin &urg4dri ot tl' 'jif , r 4*"**
■ ieen the Yell
)ag- bers of the i , -k incni.
>ner how muc> jJ*
r with
3cd, the poiiuvt ... f 4 iian wbo .
lom upon an imports. which be kno7,
obfrrvatfe^.f
■hey ; "dtingmhied .physicians ,ho have flood the
icls, i every tunc it has prevailed in this citv
ince 1701, a.nd whom mature obkrvatior.
r an . has com Uicci, tb.t it is only a higher * ra dt
, v er V buwus ftver, and the conjequence Jf the
thc immenle mass of exhalation, with which all
ore, <»ur g'Vil cities, and especially Philadelphia
n*U abouaa/>. r '
*nd ! further, Sir, your publication, feeble as
it actually is, in argument, may do eU'eiaial
ton | milch.,ef among thole citizens, (whuic wa«
rge i medical knowledge will pi event them
. 0 f from perceiving its futility) by favoring ti*
isth prejudices they have unhappily imbibed in it
vor of the importaion of tlie dileafc, but
by which are daily ivaaring away, and may tend
en- to prevent them from kconding and support-
Dr. !n ff the means for preventing tlie uomcftic
er- sources of the difeale, the propriety of which
,g- both parties are agreed in, viz. the plentiful
the %pl> r of_runn;ng water in our city,
the Tl* two medical institutions in this cily,
ied ;t is we'll known are decidedly opposed inTco
ip_ tlment UpcjD this fubjfeft. The College think
:xt that the dileafe is always imported, andtn
prajier.lv enforced will always,
les '" rrT - ttv-i-iiit to the city : while the Atacitti
r d, of Medic ins, -«e-dr oplfiTon, it raaybfbs,
to geuersciHt here and imported, and that then
a d tore it is :ts eflential to have the streets a-. t
fcwer-i well wailied in summer, and the in,.
Ed menlc fciurces ot exhalation in and about our
city removed, as to oblige vcflelsto perform
ad quarantine. The members of both tiitfc
t jj bodies, haye probably seen an equal lharc of
->n the d ileafe ; and the ret ore the legillature wiil
:k * c " to attend to the opinions of both,
e- " n dguard against the disease from foreign a::d
liomeilic sources : Ihe Corporation of oi.r
t- in their memorial to the Legillature, '
re declared their opinion of the importance of a
d, plentiful iupply ot frelh wafer to the health
ot the inhabitants, and the citizens at lsr a e'
d- coincide with them. How absurd tlierefore,
'n bow criminal is it to weaken their confidence
in its ehicaCy by the publication of your {tale
e j opinions, and to diftradt the public mind by
the untenable aflbrtion that the fever is ai*
a ways imported ? In God's name what inju
ry will the admission of the oppolite doftrine
is do " the argument of its hurting the cha
t, racier ot our climate, is too ridiculous 10
c merit a moment's conlideration ; on the con
d trary what immense, what incalculable ad
vantages will not. .rttfenri tlie mearij' jteom—
e mended by those who believe the fever can
[j originate among us, as well as be imported :
The alleys and back yards will be kept tl- an
. as well as the main streets, front which thi in
\ offensive dust is so carefully scraped du, g
__ | the summer ; our abominable common 1 •
I ers will be washed with a stream of watc,
. which will carry all their offeniive conter, s.
to the ri%-er, which now exhale through tl«
. city ; that pestiferous place Water-street wi 1
, be carefully attended- to, the extensive col
t lections from all our privies which are depc • i
. ited upbn our commons will be prevented : > ]
the large stagnant ponds in the suburbs, tl e .
t receptacle of every dead animal and vegeta
. ble matter will be filled up : the numenv '
docks, which prefeht extensive ftirfarus to
the action ot a vertical fun forfeveral houis
will be cleanled or filled up ; v.e shall luxe I
plenty of good water to drink from the lin> i
pid Schuylkill, instead of that which we now j
use, and which is so polluted by the exhala
tions from our privies. In short, WE j
SHALL BE HEALTHY.
As the Legillature ait: in pofTeffion of rll
the information which the Academy and Ccl
lege of Phvficians are able to communicatf-r
and as you must be conviiKed, you know nc - I
thing of the fubje& of which you arc writ
ing ; I leave it to your own judgment, whe
ther you had not betrer fupprel's your luci.-. -|
brations.
MEDICUS.
December 22.
NOTICE.
ON or about the 13th hfl Novcmhrr, there was f
laixlcd from 011 board a slot p or fchoorcr, f
!on Race ftrcet wharf, a quantity of Plaftcr-fari 1
Ihe owner is i\fircd to pyy « nai t aiul take it
aw* y , o'th.-rwifc it will IoM , t v«nduc on said
wharf for the .'atr.c on Saturday, January 5 1708.
Harvey & davis.
1 - tSm W/ . . ■ -*y ■ ' .sv
•t ————»
s - H (N. s.) December iq.
hear fro«n Kaleigh, that Geo. Wm
B. Davie, is elected Governor of the date.
/ Mr. Wm. White, of Leootr county, is
elefted Secretary of State, i» the room of
Mr. James Glasgow, resigned.
.WALPOLE. Dec.mbrr t.
i _ Carnot, once a Dire&ar of France, n
now in obfeuvity at Li»ta, and writing with
great zeal a»d prefeverance, Memoirs of the
Revolution. The mind of a Frenchman is
always in a state of ebullition. When he 16
interdided from the use of the dagger he
seizes the pen. The motto of this work
may be " quorum part fui," and when the
author narrate* the Irrtlption into the pal
ace, the massacres of Siptember, or the la
bouts of the guillotine, he mutt talk like a
man well acquainted with his fubjefk.
The celebrated M. Lally TollenJal, a
real French gentleman, a real politician, and
therefore an adherent to the old government
of his country, has, in a pamphlet entitled
•" A Defence of the Emigrants," drawn a
pi.liircfqiie contra betwren the state of the
nation under Louis in 1798, and under five
pcrfoms, who now pretend to excrcife power.
. This pifture clearly (hews that nothing has
been gained, but every thing loft, by the
rcvatu.viorn.
ii-V *«•
A vei v insolent letter has be-n transmit
ted to Mr. Pickering, from the Jacobin
Johnfton, of Prince Edward county, who
it may be renumbered, lately addrolfed to
the drpartmeot of ftat* a faftjous memorial.
This letter concludes in the folio*i 'g crazy,
intemperate, impudent manner, " You
set up a claim to a 1 evclufive priviledge of
indecorum. A claim, which will be readi
ly yielded to you, when Jt is recollefted
that insolence and moroftnefa of manners
are your strong- ft characteriltics: and nei
ther charity or eovy will deny you the en
joyment of t'-e only diftiriftion, which is
within the reach of your talents."—
NEW-YORK. December 22.
A member of the French Convention has
had the beldntfs to assert—that seven rights
of the prizes taken by the cruisers of the
Terrible Republic, *J»ave been Neutrals
and that France Wotild severely fufferby such
absurd policy.— We difl not think there
was as much reason and ho ( nefty in that in
fatuated country. But ditafter makes peo
ple sober and rational.
Honors clutter thick around the braw
of Dr. L . Public gratitude seems
eager to reward his generous ardor te com* i
pose our differences with France. Quere. !
m Were we governed by the spirit of a
French Dire&ory, would he not long-ago
have received much higher honors ? The mo.
men t ht set his foot on American ground
after such a fttfoicioua emhafly, would he :
not have been elevated to a lamp pott ? In j
all the circumftai ces of this tranfai4i»-^'
could any man have comnv***-** " ' !r , e t^ te , r
S<*tj jjLKtbr gn-^ rnml Mpn'irifies !Wt have j
heard however the firft distant murmurine;s
of the thunder—perhaps we may ere long
fee its tremendous lightning fall.
There is as much hafenefs in flattering a !
multitude, as an individual. What j
are we to think of the Aurora, which is e- '
ternally add effing the people in contradif- |
tindion from the government, thus: The
majesty—the sovereign y— the omnipotence
of the people. 'I he m: b fvcophancy is as
despicable as any court flattery.
Four months ago the anxiety on the fub
jeft of French insults was universal. Al
though we did not tremble at the profpeft j
of an open r pture with that haughty re- j
public, yet it gave us uneafmefs. We fear- |
ed her daring boldnefs,"uncheck«d by any !
moral reftraipts, and we were ignorant of
her rwn strength and resources. Now
though we regret that negociation has fail
ed, and all hope of accommodation is van
ished—we feel our situation so vastly differ
ent — that her demand of tribute and her
menoces «f fuhjugation, we hear without *
ore vibraiiou of fear—or rather with ineffa
ble contempt.
The disadvantage of the loss of reputa
tion for integrity, was nevsr more visible '
than on a late occalion. The Aurora, as is
very common with that vehicle of impudent
falfhoods, published a i'cter which not with
fia"ding the ftrongelt afieveration—could
gain belief wi h no one but those who wilh
ed to be deceived.
We a e anxious to learn the re r ujf cf the
Vrmont eleflion. Judge Chipman has 1
declined being a candidate, and the Federa
lists will make a power ul exertion to eleft :
Mr. Williams ; but Lyon's adherents are Hill 1
numerous. It is said, several thousand (igners i
have been obtained to petitions to t : e Prefi- 1
dent, to (hurten bis imprisonment, and remit '
his fine I ! which if not done, will be paid
by the petitioners.
* - 1
■| " The Maritime Power of Albi»n fs the
only barrier to unlimited domination on 'he
part of the Five Headed Vlonfter. The an.
cient poets had an idea that three heads
were lufficien' for the Cerberus of the infer
nal regions Had thev have lived to the pre
sent e'ay, the real exifttnee of a Five.Hea
ded-Heaft, would have fupetccded fiition,
and the French Direftory have taken the
pl.vre of the old, surly inaftiff, at the Port
lands of Pluto, f
RICHMOND, Deccmfitr 13.
The hon. Henry Tazewell was yesterday -(
re defied a Senator in Cor.g tfs, by joint '
ballot of both houses of the General Affem- '
bly of tf is (late.— A rrport of eighteen r .
months (landing, which Mr. Taiewell had t
denied, and which ha ! lain dormant for so
long a time, was quoted again ft him.—lt
. : WA* pr 'ftofcd to roflprtue the ele&inn, un
til the lit «j-y «»F { 'iiuarv ntf*t : but a ma
. j>'ri{y <-f ■iucfv-etgfct to fifty three decided
. againtt thw ;;o(lpancaient.
'■ mum
f SA)t <sKsztiz>
PHILADELPHIA,
i
f , 1
g MONDAY EVENING DECEMBER 24.
g aiu -•> ®
e PRICES OF STOCKS.
C Philadelphia, Decfmßi* 21.
c Six P«r Cent. A 16/5
Three Per Cent. I /
Deferred 6 Per Cent. J4j*
B \NK United Stares, percent.
1 Pennsylvania, 15 ditto
■ ■ North America, $0 ditto
Infuran<ic connp N. A fharea (*itto
. —— k—- Pennfylvanfci, (hare*, 4< ditto
! COURSE OF EXCHANGE
On London, v 30 days 60
at 60 days 57J
' at 90 days 55
a Amsterdam, 60 days, per guilder, 30 cents
e ,
c %* The next nu nberof this Gizette will
• not be publilhw J until Wednefdoy.
s
Married. Sa'urday evening 'all by
the Right Rev. Bifliop Whit*, Mr. Samuel
C. Cox of Maryland to Miss Eliza Trux/on
daughter of Capt. Thomas Truttnn.
On Thtirfday evening 1 (V, by the
0 Rev. Frederick Schmidt, Mr. Richard Lou
° dcnjleigcr, to the amiable Mis* Margaret
Bowers, both of this city.
JJ. Dfparted this life, on the 2iftinfiant,
Marcus Kuhl M. D. n the 29th year »f j
j his age. A Gentleman of a truly amiable!
disposition and honorable princijles.
" The fueet renembrance of the iuft
SfcaH floui ifh when he sleeps in dust.
- m •»
8 The return of B.utlletown, at the El- fti
or. held o'i Fridaviall, was for Muhlenburg
82, sot Logan 45 reducing the whole ma
jority of the latter to 487,
1
■* The honorable Henry Tazewell has Keen
e re-ele&ed a senator in congress, by the gen
- eralaffembly of Virginia.
e Opinions of Giles,
n Late Member of Congress from Virginia.
" A (fate of things may exist between two
nations in which Reprisal not only becomes
the right but the duty of the nation fultain
• ing the wrong. This happens when one na
-8 tion without caufe'forcibly seizes upon the
1- j effefts of another, or of its citizens, and with
• holds them without reflitution or compenfa
a tion ; and when the nation whose effefts (hall
a be so seized and detained, (hall possess no
- other means of indemnification. The right
1 of reprisal in the injured nation, in such a
e ; cafe, grows out of the injury sustained, and
tl its jnabiUti? 40- ""fjHfc itfelf in any other
duty »f the mpTOTtßlfron I©
- make reprifats, is founded upon felf-preferva
e ; tioo, and in cafe of the losses of its citizens,
3 upon the promise sf the proteftion of the
j property, sacredly made by the nation to its
j individual members."
a ! "A regard for peace has been conArued
1 ; into a fear of war. Submiflion to agxreffion
- has invited new aggreltion ; appeals for juf
j tice have been deemed tefti'itionics of debility,
e till at length the United States, after having
e been stripped of their citizens and property,
1 are upon the eve of war, because they have
not exerted their rights at an earlier period.
If this Condnft has been heretofore wife and
. pacifit, experience has taught us that it is 110
. longer so : nothing can be expected from the
k • justice, moderation or honor of a government,
. j which has prr.ved itfelf equally a ftraftger to
. J them all—but, before such a tribunal, ac
s quiescence besfets injuries, injuries beget in
s fults, and insults will beget contempt, degra
dation and war."
Ml. fENNO,
THE remarkable contrail between the
Aurora and the other city papers in refpeft
advertisements. is well worthy of notice.
—lt explains in 'he most forcible language
the cause of the political heresies and falf
hoods, with which the former constantly
. teems.
; ' In that- vekicle of sedition, on the 23d
5 inft. twenty one insolvent debtors gave no
t tice to their creditors, that they had applied
for the benefit of th< aft, provided for such
[ persons. In the fame paper there were on
. ly three tcffels advertised j—whereas the o
ther city papers are Crouded with advertife
merts of merchandize for sale, anu vessels
. for freight; but they contain very few, if
, ar:y, notifications of the former kind.
this display of the embarraflid si u
ation of the Aurora's patrons, (and I pre
| fume they arc almost all similarly situated)
1 it is but reasonable to suppose that revoluti
ons would better suit their circumstances
than regular government.
AN OBSERVER.
December 24.
Ext raft of a letter dated Columbia, Dec. 7th. 1
Yesterday was elefted votes. !
Governor Edmund Rutledge iej '
General Moultrie, had 40 1
Johtt Drayton, Lieutenant Governor. 1
Charles Pinckney, Senator to Con ere fs 70
General Pickens had c \ '
Charles Pinckney is elei\ed. '
Whereas the certificate of two 1
(bores of the Hank of the United States in the
name ©t' Samuel Amory, of London, banker *
No yrgi.iffued'in lieu of u, 91 , , ~9 4, w „ e V
forwarded from London hy the Rrttifh picket t
Confttef., of Leicester, eapt. Dodi, bound for <j
New xork, which packet was captured by the
trench, and the larfl certificate loft ; andf. >rt i, e
renewal of which, application is IT , J( i e at f aill '
Bank, ami all perfoos concerned are defircd' to '
take notice. i
CLEMEMT Binnr.R. t
rhik.oa.i6, ir 9 S. eofiw r
,
Frcm the Faitxeu'j Weekiy Moskux. '
STaREDS amo REMNANTS.
The c**it word, wh c'i is so rurfent
anon?; coclcm-vs ml coxcombs, is not, as
is f:ror«if;d, tli• q i.ii'it in* n tion
of tSc diy. In Shnkefw'* Hfiry
VIII. Duke of Cackinifhan, d-fj;r'Hi
the T> -liee ?.nd tVirmt-ninf lookjof Cardi
nal WcL'sy. pr'Kffds thus,
' - —" I rc-ai! in hit looks,
, " Mitter j(»»iiirtme ; and his tyi rec^il'd
■; Me, an h • ahje'l whiel • at ths inflant '
<" lie boret me with some trick "
In thf conrfe of our literary labors, we
find tlie work? of «14 authors 1
jto mike the following political applications,
j PRESIDENT oft be UNITED STATES- '
I am as eonftint as the northern flar.
Of who r e true, fi*t, tefling quality
Tbere is 00 fellow in the firmament,
The flcies are painted.with unnumberM sparks,
Thev are .ill fire, and every one doth shine ;
But there's hut one in all ,'oth hold his place ;
So, in the world j 'tis furnifhett well withtnen,
Yet in the number, I dmknow hut ona
That, nnaflailed, holds on his rank,
UnOiak'J of motion ; and, that I am he,
Let me a little (hew it, e-en in this j
That [ am ronft int, Frenchmen are our foes,
And conllant will remain to think them so.
Mir. JEFFERSON.
1 A Stitefman more by («■ ce than genial bent ;
By breeding (harp, hy nature fconfident.
Interest in all his ailion9 is discerned ; flearn'd.
More learn'd than honcft, more a wit than
Lieut. GENERAL WASHINGTON.
His captain heart.
Oft in the fcufflos of fights, hath burst
THS BUCKUtS ON HIS BREAST.
MINORITY in CONGRESS.,
When yot* fpenk befl unto the purpose,
it is not worth the wagging of your beards:
and your benrds deserve not so honorable a
sprave, as to fluff a botcher's enfttion, or to
be in an ass's pack fad,'lie. Yet
you tTiutl be flying A—s is proud, who in?,
cheap cft'imatkM) is worth all your predeces
sors, fmce Deucalion. More of yovtr con
versation would into ft the brain. You are
the herdsmen of the beifily plebeians.
VARNUM.
Win' he ruminates like an hostess, that
hath no arithmetic but,her brain to set down
her reckoning j bites his lip with a politic
al regard, as whodhoulJ fav— there were
wit in this head, an 'twould out.
A HALF FEDERALIST.
That, fir, which serves and leeks for gain,
And follows hut for form,
Who'il pack, when it btgins to rain,
And leave you in the storm.
Dr. LOGAN.
For he tells us the Sovereign'li thing ia the
world,
Is parmacitj for our intf&d bruifc.
MATTHEW LYON.
In thy felonious heart though venom lies,
It does hut touch thy Irilh pen and diet.
twn of man in !*»«.%. irui* r» wrir.
And yet thau'rt bur r kilderkin of wit.
Thnu wear a lion's hide 1 dotfit for fftame,
And bang a cat's &in on thy recreant limbs.
FRANCE.
Thevineleaveiinthat country allarewither'di
Thepale fae'd moon looks bloody on theearth,
And lean look'd prophets whisper fearful
change j
Rich men look fad, and RmJfianj J ante and
leap.
Her fun frti weeping in the lowly weft;
Witnessing Dorms to come, woe, and unteft-
A COMPARATIVE ESSAY
ON
France and the Uniud States of N.America
With regard to their Soil, Climate Pro
duSiont, Inhalitanlr. ConOitution,
und progrtjfive Form .tion.
[Br E. A. W. ZIMMERMAN ]
The author of this work having htard it
argued in a numerous meeting, that the re
volution of France was oc«aficned by the
fame cause, ai d had the fame tendency with
that of America, was so ftroni»ly affc&ed
with a conviftion of the fallhood and dan
gerous confcquences of such an opinion} that
he engaged to oppose it in print. The ex
tent of researches necelTary for the accom
phfkment of his engagement required the
labour of several years 5 and the book be
fore tts constitutes the firft volume of his un
dertaking.
Zimmerman endeavours to (hew the
dissimilitude of the two revolutions in their
cawfrs and consequences, and derives his
proofs from two sources ; thedefcription of
the countries, and that of their iahabhants.
In a former work, which has been t ■ ice
printed in German, and of which a firft vo
lumn appeared at CafTel in 1784, in French,
intitled •• Zoologie Geographique," the
author had rendered himfelf familiar with
inquiries into the nature of countries; and
he has availed l.imfelf of the authorities, to ,
cftablilh his fafts in the present publication ,
according to tlit fame method. With re .
gard to that pirt of his work which relates
to men confirlereci as the inhabitants of a }>e
culiar diftriA, bis reasoning is eftablilhed
on the pofttion that this animal, Ike every 1
other, is fubjtA so the influence ps climate '
and different physical ciufes, as well as t
ihofe moral energies of which the influence '
has never keen doubted , and that the l.us
man charafler, with all its effedls, is deriv. '
v d from these sources.
A simple history ms the two nations, t
would not have accomplished the aim of the f
writer ; but it was indispensably necessary
that he should apply to the bell b-ftorical 1
documents, in ord. r to develope the diftindt
ive ligns of national charafler ; at the fame i
time that the geographical ftrufture, and
tbe aftual political situation of the coun- 1
tries, wcreobjt&s of attention in the deduc
tion of his relnlta. Concerning those ge«t- f
ral refuhs, it wiil be for us to
v . , •,
; fpcak until the whole work fliall have been j
piibliilu-'J, The aa hor, however euume- I
rates the following in hi* preface, as peculi- ,
arly entitled to the attention of his readers • j
"T. Frcm the mod remote limes to the *
piefrnt age, the cbara&er of the French nn- (
tion hail been conttantly the fame, as well '
with regard to its good as its bad qualities.
The fcverjl degrees of cultivation, to which
it has arrived, have not altered ita primitive
impreflion. .
a. This nation hi« displayed at lead as '
much courage during its obedience to its 1
kings, as during it« new ephemeral foim of
government.
3 Under its kings, Conquefl was never
rendered difgraccful by a regular and pro
found combination of robbery, even in the
country of their real enemies; and still left
did their armies march attended by legions
of the greedy agentsof exaftion,and ceftors*
who are lolely occupied in robbing those
flares, with which thev were in prof und '
peace of such objects as procured the grea
tefl advantages to the latter claflcs of peo- 1
pie, while they had the impudence to speak
of nothing in public but their liberty and t
their happiness. c
4. Among all the kings «f France, there 3
is one only, namely Lewis XI. whose reign f
affords events in some refpe&s fimilsr to those
wh.ich charaftcrife the present foi-difant re- j!
public.
• The author refers to the 80th and Brft fee- f
ti»ni, chap, ig of Cicero's Oration pro Uofcio,
to (hew what kind of men ihefe were- v
!
CONGRESS. \
1
The Senate of the United States, this c
day, commenced the trial of the impeach- :
ment of William Bloitnt. The managers '
on behalf of the House of Representatives,
in order to give due form and folemm'ty to
the proceeding, requeued, that the counsel t
who appeared in behalf of the defendant, c
should be called to enter upon the record of
the court, the authority upon which thty '
a&ed. Accordingly. Mr. Dalla?, ore of (
the counsel delivered to the hon. Mr. Law
rence, pti fid nt of the court, two letters |
from Mr. Blount, containing authority for <
them to a& as his counsel.. A ru 1 * of the
Senate having pafled, that all decisions In
this court, (hould be taken with closed '
doors, the galleries were thereupon cleared.
The House of Representatives of the U
nited States this day, adjourned to Wcduef
d4y.
(Bajettc flparine Jltfl.
Bo Hon, Dec. 13.
On Monday night, and Tuesday morn
ing last, a large (hip, with a figure head was
seen off Cape Cod, under jury mails, with
fails set, supposed to be making for land.
The ich. Jerulha, Voakes, from Surrinam
went en Lynn Beach, in the late storm but
it is probable Che ** :u gnt off without any
material damage. Capt. V. has arrived in
town, and politely favoured us with thefol.
lowing—Capt. Joseph Bragdon, in fch.
Eliia, of Newbury Port, from Scarborough,
arrived 27th Oft. month of Surrinam river,
aud proceeded from thence to Bcrbice.
Capt. B. informed, that he spoke (loop Re
becca, of Briltol, from New-London, with '
horses on board, bound to Berbice, 61 days :
out who in lat. 5, 30, N. had loft her cap. |
tain over board. Ihe Rebecca had but half 1
hhd. water on board, when spoken by capt.
B. —Left at Surrinam, snow Sufa:, Bow
ler, of Providence, to fail in Bor to days ; -
' rig Fair American, Forest, of Philadcl- ;
phia ; Three Frienda, Endieott, of Salem;
schooners Ruby, Rhodes, for Charleston ;
Defiance, ClinU-n, of New-York. Sailed
in company, the sloop Endeavour, Miller,
for Portland.
In the storm on Sunday evening lalt a
fehr. of Portland, about 100 tons burthen
loaded with pitch, iar, tobacco, See. from
North Carolina, was cast away on a beach 1
near Smdy Bay, (Cape Ann) and by the '
exertions of the inhabitants, the people on 1
board were saved, and it is probable some of !
the cargo msy be —vessel gone to pieces.
Rickett's Circus. I
t
MR. fICKF.'TT'n, ,
WITH the mod sincere refptft, acquaints hit (
friends and the public, that he has teturn
i/d to Philadelphia, and will open KU CIKCUS in 1
Chefnut Street, nest Wetlnefday evening, with a
variety of NSIV P£RFORMA\CES. some of I
which he frfciSed during his tour through Canada, I
Jtc. Amnnjfft which are, a jufl reprefintation of ,
/In INDIAN-SCAL P-DANCE
Which he acquired lrom the chiefs of the Seven
Nations at Q.tinsv'oga. *
A G.M.V/J CAr/ILC/tWi, 1
Confifling of Warriors in the dresses of the dif- c
ferent nations of Alia, Africa, Europe andAme- f
rica. j
The exercise of the l
BROAD SWORD,
In which he will introduce the Guards of
nation, and also a new American guard mounted -
on the charger Cornplan'er.
• 1 reprejcntaiion nf r
REAL ACTION,
Together wi'h a number of extraordinary Teats
of Horsemanship, Stige Performances, Songs,
i>tncet, and other agreeable c.tertai mencs,whuh
lit will not at f rcf nt pretend to particularifc, as
hehttpes i.y his exertion to render real fatisfadion, ai
and merit a continuance of ft-at generous appro- w
bation and support which h- fo'oft.n t ipi rienced
in this city, and for which he wiil ever feel the V
deepef) fenfc of gratitmic.
In the eourfc of the evening there will be dif
played fevrral iodierou. I'ttnes, in one of which
Mr. ». will appear in aCanatia Winter Dref«.
The whole to conclude with Sa'tjJ going to
Eleftion at St
N D ihcCir.usha* undergone a complete re
pair and it furnilheii with ttoves that mull render
iteattcmcly comfo^jble.
• The doorl will he opun it fu—the perlor- 11
mance r* eommcnc; prec ley at fevct. o'dnek. n
Bi x, on< doiUr 1 Hit; half a'dollar. d
Tickets to be had at the Par of CElt rs'. Hotel,
, and at the Ticket 01T1 cc adjoining the Circe*, t<
» dec »4
I i
/V
I j PROPOSAL $■
FOft PUBtIShII.VO a-N W
.; UNIVERSAL, (GAZETTEER;
, OR MODfcBN , .
GEOGRAPHICAL DICTIONAR 2~
, j CONTAINING,
; A Jul! and authentic desertptitn of.alt the Em
pires, Kingdoms, Rcpub.ics, States, prcvif
ces, Island. t, Cities, Towns, Htvrrt, Seal,
Bays, GuJft, and Harbors, in the kno<vn
•world.
LIKEWISE, ,
The Government, Cufloms, Manner!, and Re'
I Vision of the inhabitants ; viitb many inter*
efing particulars relative to Trade, Manu
factures, and Natural CuriositUt,
Br JOSEPH SCOTT,
AUTHOR OF THE
UNITED STATES GAZETTEER.*
The advantages ivhich this luork possesses
over every publicr.twn of the kind, art,
ift. IT will contain defcriptioitf of many
thousand places, which are not found in any of
cur Gazetteers,
j id. The new political divisions which hare
taken place, in those countries of f urope, in
consequence of the French revolution,; whilst
a due regard vrill be paid to the old diviOons,
for the fake of thofc who read History.
3d. Tlie account of icveral ibouland placet,
will he more copious than is found in any o'
(imilar work.
4th. Many errors in former publications will
be corre<£Ud, relative to latitude, longitude,
fituatian, and extent of towns and countries.
► jth. With refpefl ts that part of the work
which relate, toihe United States, the author
has received upwards of ft* hundred letters,
and is da ly receiving more, from gentleman of
the firft information, in different parts of the
Union, which will enable him to give a much •'
more copious and con rA topograjibicaUiccount
of our counties, towns, rivers, foil, produce,
and natural curiofiticf, than has ever been pufi
lilhed.
CONDITIONS.
I. Thr rjtzv Universal Gazetteer y*\ll b« prin
ted on fine paper, with a handsome type, ia
octavo,
r 11. It will be romprifed in thirty, or thirty
two numbers, of pages each.
i 111. Each number Ulobe a quarter of a dol
lar, to be paid on delivery,
IV. In the court'e of the publication twenty
five maps will be delivered. A':o, tAOpla r.s,
explanatory of the firlt principles of gcograpfy
and astronomy. '
1 V. The work will be puhlifbed with all pof*
I fib ! e expedition.
VI. A lift of the fubfcriberi names will be
' annexed to the work
Suhfcriptions are received by the Author at
No 175 Markct-Strcrt.
Dec. 14. «j[ Jt
On c »turday next, the 29th inflr/j } t 7
o'clock in the PVfnirijf. the ivlcr
' chants C< ffee House will be fo!d for an
approved indorsed note at three months,
jB&SlNfc. THE BKIGANTIN&
1 SALLY,
WI I'H her as (he catm from Sei,
an inventory of which .-nay be seen at the aiu'iion-
I c-rs, (he it 160 ton? register ir.esfurement, bu 1 of
t white oak in the state of New-jersey, ard 110W
jr liei at Mr. Fyres whiif in Kenfiprtun
II FOO i'MAN & Co. auUicneers.
foe »4 dts
Uhitio SriTM, ■> _
' Pennfylvaiiia Difirich j '
' "W t)T,CE is her * h y ?' ven that i" pursuance of a
. iN writ to me directed, from the Honorable
. Ricuaod Pbt»ss, t(q. Judge of the Dfihia
a Court of the Uniml States in and for the Penn
fylvanis Dillria, will be exposed to pubi c sale
at the house of James Ash, elq. in Third street,
• on Saturday the agth inft»n«, »t «* u'clock at
f noon,
2 Hogsheads and
2 Barrels of Spirits.
• The fame having been libelled againfl, j-rcfreuted
- and cond«mned as foffcued in the said Court.
i y WILLIAM NICHOLS,
i MaribaL
1 MarlhaU Office, Df. 'j*h, 1708
Beware of the Rascal!
j THE Public in general, and the Book
j Bind.-rs in psrticu'ar, throughout the IT
nited States; are o.uti med rgair.ft the de
. tception of a gallows-koking, yellow-com
, pledioned, black-haired fellowr, who calls
p hirnfef, JOHN HOLT, by trade a Book-
Binder— hy his afli ns to be a
. JACOBIN. He yelteiday secreted him
l'elf from the pursuit of hts lawful credit; rs,
'although, the day btforc out of mere chari
ty, I ba led him frum prtfftn, offered htm
the highest wages and conllant empLy, to
1 enable him to'do jll (lie*—he ptrdged his
| word, his houor to be indubious, to be
, faithful!tn his benefaiflor—he has put hiia
r felf beyond my reach for the present he
, has added ingratitude to injustice In or
der, more cSt&ually, to guard e»;ry j.erfon
agaitift his impositions for the future, I
1 think it neceflary to decribe him more min
utely than above. He is about 5 feet 7 in
ches high; (lender make—he is a pf,fane
swearer, a liar, a dfuukaid and a g'utton.
He was guilty of fevcral adls cf swindling
before he left thi town.
ROBERT HARPER.
Chamburgh: December 12, it.
Canal Lottery, No. 11.
Will re-con:menct drawing, on Monday,
thi - t th of "January >nxt, and cm
linue untilfitvjhcd.
1 ICKETB to be had Eight Dollars each, at
1 WHL.UAM I3LACKBURN's Lo.tcry
and Brokers office. No. 64 South Seeond-ftreet,
where cheek hooks are kept for regiflering tted
cximination of '1 ickets in the above, City of
VV afhirijjten and PafTerf.m Lotteiies, &c.
itAti or tm 1 Whui,
One prize of IC,OOO dollars 10,000
T ive 4iCO» 20,000
2. wo , >CO3 4,000
, r uo i,oco »,000
J™ , J.CO9
Twenty-leven aoo Ji4oo
With a full proportion of the one hundred
and of the fifty dollar priies—The Lo terv is
no t R;n two third* drawn an,i above t JrC o
dollars richer than at the commencement.
Note, the bufinclV of a Hrolcer duly at
tend't* to in si! its brjr.ches. u ft.
ouv. ylVk*t-T*£±, II Mil— M ngnMUMW
Imports.d
IN THE LAST ARRIVALS,
Superfine, fine and common cloths :
Swandowns
Baizrs
Velvetts
V elvtretts
Prmted calicoes
Furriturr & fancy dimities
Hairrflihatids
Sewing silk
Bruilels and Persia caipetts
Buttons
For fait, for cajh or credit, by
SAMUEL MERRICK,
no. 143 Arch Itrcet.
Nov. t$ 1 sfjanr
for sale,
at nc 9, outh Water-Street.
liilh Linens,- 7-8 and 4-4, well
a.Oort in whole and half boxes
Checks in ditto
, JDroghedaV, a d Brown 7-8 beetled Lineds
—Hacklel Flax
-Scott* • hr.ad
Men and Womens Combs
KurTi-i thick, rf an excellent quality, and
100 hhds. Aux Cayes Molafles.
By ISA , C H.iRVET, junr.
fstK mo. r 7 d4w
bank of I\orth Ameriea.
kTHE Stockholders arc hereby noticed, that an
I. lor twelve l.iirrAors, for rhe enfuifig
yi-ar, will In, el tat the Bank on Monday, the
.14th < f J i. uary n xt, at ten o'clock
R.CHaRD WELLS, Calh'r.
Dec 3 t*.3B dtfl
ANY French Ladies and Gentle
men wj -rii.g lor Jrr.»i.ce. can obtain it in
a Veflcl at New-York, by applying to Meflrs
Gahn & Munifcrd in that Lity.
L»tc.
Ce* Dam sou taeflieurs Francois, qui veulent
p- £T ree Fr <c euvent accomodee, l'ur un
part ant de N York, ens'addrelTant ckcz
M. M.Gahn and Mumiord, dan cctte villc.
P c-
M U I ICE.
ALL Persons indebted to tke Estate of VVH
llatn Beaiichamp, lately deceased, art de
sired to i"ake immedia'e payment and thole who
have any claitrs againit laid Eltate to pioduee
thoir accounts properly altelled to
SamL Price, executor.
uov in drm
FOR SALE, "
By the Subscriber,
Bdfaft Canvass, No. i, to 7,
On moderate terms for Ca(h or a Ihort-credit
James Lyle,
South Seventh Jlrtet, near Cbe/hut.
nov 16 4
FOR SALE, " ■
To he I XOHANGF.D for property within thirty
fvi e* ot the-* *yi on forever
Several valuable building Lots,
In Philadelphia,
Enquire of William IVI. Biddle. ne. X 47, Ohefnut
ftreec. ' I
nov *iTi 5
FOR 6 I.t, ——
By the Subscribers
100 Bolts Ruliia Duck,
50 pipes London particular bill MadciraWine
l,pal{ Inn. (iwUmi C.iilnon I
A ie«- Baits Matlros HandkeTchiefs
4000 bs Fine Flnta Indigo
33 Barrels Beef. '
Witlings b* Francis.
Penn-ftreet, >
Novembtr J §
ALi. VtiOtJNS havin fe an; legal demands a
ga nil the estate ot William Pi, ki*i, dece fed,
latj of the city of Philadelphia, Tavern keener, are 1
requeued Iwiiifli ar-counts properly au- 1
thenticated, and all persons indebted to ratil estate 1
are r.-qae(led to make payment to the fubfcribsr in
Philadelphia.
I.EVI HOLLINGSWORTH Adminr.
Oaobcr 31H, 179S
Wants a Place,
A WOMAN with a good
-Enquire at No. 58 South Front street,
Dec. 10.
TEN DOLLARS REWAKD.
DESERTED lalk night, a second time, from
the Marine Camp, David Luftr, a fifer.—
He had when he went away, a plain I lue jacketatid
▼eft, light blueoveralls, a round hat, which had been
bound with yellow, and wHich he had ripped ofi
in his fitll defirtion, and a pair of new ihoes. he is
a Carpenter by trade, has grey eyes, sandy hair
f d!o\r complexion and a nitch in his upper lip
His back is dill fore from a flogging he got a few
days ago He may bo difcovcrcd by his fifeing, |
at he plays extremely well.
W, W. BURROWS Major Com. of the
Oitober 17. Marine Corps.
JOR SALE,
Fifty Acres of Good Land,
Lvi ng in Gloucester County,
State of Aeir- ferfey, (
Twenty-four acres ot whichaie
WwodlaHd, the reft, Meadow. This <
land lies about half a mile frem 'I imber-Creek,
ani t-»e miles from the river Delaware, the
eopntv road palling through it, and the great j
mad only two miles diflant. For terms, apply <
to, ' lATRICK DOGHERTY,
Sign if the Rainbow, in Sbippen, (
be 1 -jjeen Second and Third Jlreets. >
dec 4 a
All persons ,
Indebted to Eftate ot Mr. John FiNNo,late
of Vhiladelphia, deceafed,are dsfired to make pay
ment, and tfiofe having any dentands, to prefcßt
thtm for £ettl«ri«it, to
SAMUEL BLODGET, Adm'r.
or
JOHN WARD FENNO, Agent
to the administration.
no*. So s3m
NOTICE. " '
ALL persons indebted to the Estate of Sam- 1 J
UtL W ai.lis, esq. Murcey tuwnlhip, 1
in Ihr county of Lycoming, lately deceased, are
hereby required to ciime forward immediately °
and pay their relpedive debts.—And all persons
having lrgal demands against the Estate, are
requeued to produce their, accounts, properly I
authenticated, for fcttlement. > a
JOHN VVALI.IS, ,
W ILLIAM ELLIS, (Adminitlra- , <i
DANIEL SMITH, (" tors.
JOHN ADtt-UM, J
decejnber 1,3 3taw 4 w
/"
THE CARGO,
Or the Ship INDIA,
Captain Ahimfad, from BATAVIA,
Consisting of
is JAVA COFFEE,
Of the Fit ft Quality—to be Sdld, by
MORDECaI LEWIS.
dec ii <^l'v
FOR SALE,
BY THE *W#SCRI'* »■ *>
14 four pound Cannon, . liferent lengths,
5 Carroriades.
JOHN NIXON & CO. -
December 1. f
Lancaster County Butter,
IN KEGS,—FOR SALE, ,
J Enquire at No. 92, Market-street, .
near Third-Street.
11 —LAkENCk StcKEL, !
No. 155, Market-Street.
Pirft quality London Particular / VWNES.
Madeira, Pert, Sherry and Lisbon J
Cogniae Brandy, lit to 4th proof.
Sprits.
By the Pipe, Hhd, Quarter-cask or Galloa.
dec 3 mw&fiw
Now Landing,
From on board the /hip John Bulkeley, and
for sale at the (lores of Jefle & Robert
Wain,
!" r 350,0 c o weight of Java Coffee,
ie of the fir (t quality in bags.
150,000 weight of Java Sugar, 1
in cannifters.
Nov. i \ dtf
BALL AS I.
" A QUANTITY to b-difpofed of, if applied for
* il immediately, on boird the Jhip Louila, lying
Mr. HUMPHRfcY'j Snip Yard. •
november 10. J
t 'lmported,
n In the Ships Aftive and Liberty t
from HjmBVRGU.
Ticklenburghs,
Oznabrigs,
White Platillas
Brown Silefias
; BretagneS
Heflian Rolls
Brown Russia Sheetings
German Lindfeys,
Bed Ticks, itfe.
For Sale by
GEORGE PEN NOCK. -
no. 103 Marine t-Breet.
. >0 {
sHuIMaKeR & BtR kl i' 1,
HAVP. RtMt)V;D THEIR
INSURANCE OFFICE
fa* Nb'. *9, South Front street.
1
Their rewm at the Coffee-houfe will contlhue to
. be attended froav It till 2 o'clock in the day, and
front 6 to 8 o'clock in the evening.
JACOB SHOEMAKEU,
Has also removed his Counting house to the
fame pllce, where he has for sale a few j>ipes choke
London Paaticular adeira Wire; French au«'
.Vpan»fli Rrandy • Plal'ft .v» -aflrs ar-H rafr® of «
periof quality, and a few Paikages lilafs ant 4- -
earher, which will be fold very low to ctofe the
fates.
Philadelphia, ia mo. if, 1708. §
THE PARTNERSHIP OF F
Alexr. J. Milder, fcfCo.
BEING dillblved on the firft mHaRt, by the .
death of James Davit, all persons indebted (
r to the fame are requeiled to fettle with the sub
scriber, and thofete whom they are indebted are
retrieved to call on him for payment.
1 ALEXR. J. MILLER,
No. 64, South Front Jlreet.
Who has on hand, E
TO BE DISPOSED OF ON LOW TIRMI,
By the Package or Piece* h
, Fine plain and tamboured Muslins bl
, Guzzennai r <
Battas 1 ,
CofTaet aj
Rabobgutigies pi
( India Citlicoes V
Book Muflns so
j Coloured ditto tc
, Real & Mock Madras A pullicat hkfa.
Brown Silefias e<
s Tickings, isfc. (3'c. P'
JUST ARRIVED,
AN ASSORTMENT OP re
Irish Linens is? Ruflia Sheetings. »t
' nov it $
A Young Man,
WHO writes a good hand, underlhnds
accounts andean be well recommended,
wants a Situation as Clerk or ASiflant in a
Wholesale Store, or Coiiuting-hnufe. Appli- ___
cation to be made at this Office. 1-
Jiovj4 ' f ~
' To the Creditors of the Subscribers. fu
PLE ASE TO TAKE NOTICE, that we havcap. an
plied to the judges of the Court of Common
Pleas, for the benefit ot an aft of airembly, paff-d ihe
fourth day of April last; and they have aj pointed
IHURSDAY the 27th 1 nit. to hear us and cur Crc- I
duors, in ihe city of Philadelphia, at f«ch place
where the Court may be held, and wnere you may
attend if you please.
PATRICK C* VANAUGH,
JAMES DOUGHERTY,
PETER G. ROSE, ""
JOHN GREENE,
LEWIS D GR^FF,
JAMES A
RICHARD STOKES
cc ' . 3'jw jw
L u S si ~ -
IN one of the llreets between Union and Saf
fafras, on the jth inflant, theoutfide Case
of an Englilh Gold Watch, chafed on the back
, with a Ihie'.d. A erl'on who may find the H
fame, and will bri to this office, will receive J
Four Dollars reward- and the thanks of the of
owner.
dtc - 7- K,
All Perloiis
Indebted to the Estate of HENRY HILI.. d.ceased T
are requefle-J to make payment to the Ibbfenber :
and tholi: hiving any demands on the fame to pro. rv
duce their accounts.tor («ttlemcnt. y
GIDEON H. WELLS,
I
IM ported
In tbe lai arrivals from Bremen,-
Hamburg and Amsterdam,
AND FOR SALE,
AT KIASC.NABL t PRICES A'Nll ON A 118I*AL
CRIDi r,. BY
PRATT Vf KINTZING,
N0.95, Vorth Wa««r ftrcet.
215 bales & boxes l icklenburghs,
'» hrmpet lineni and oinabrigs from 1/5 to
if P er ,!1 -
70 do. bleached and brown hessians'
- 40 do. Irown rolls suitable for cof
fee bagt
20 do. strong do. do. for cotton do.
> 30 ehrfts pbtillas a do. f«aling-wax
3 do. dowlas 3 packages oil-cloth
30 do. crcas ajaMorlaix 4 do. fail-twine
do. efteipailtes I do. watches
15 do. Bielefield linen 14 pipes Port wine
90 do. patterbornes <JI cases claret
4J do Brittanias 130 do fin£ long corked
'• I dg. Holland canvass claret
I. do. Ruflra do. 1600 bufeels fine lalt
3' do. Rulfia lheetings 40 cafksofroll brimstone
1 do. ravens duck 100 caiks of naval stores.
2 do. Russia drillens 50 logs prime mahogany
X do. brown holland 4 hhds. coffee mills
% do. Silefi» rouans 6 bundles German steel
I dft.Wahrendrop linen to cherts of llate« and
1 1 do. Caraudoles pencils
t I do. Fleniifh linens A package of fcates
I do. eambricks and A do. woolen caps, &c.
lawns 4 chells of Nurenberg
( Ido diaper toys
12 do. stripes 40 kegs of yellow ochre
18 do. e&ecks 3 hhds. Glue
1 do. fiam,ois 8 barrel* of LentiHes
I do. Arabia stripe j chells of prime red
I do. bunting for color- cruit Holland cheese
I packa. Madras hand- 30 kegs ot pearl barley
kerchiefs 63 boxes of capers
I do. Turkey yarn 400 fides of upper and
6* bales empty bags foal leather
I chest hair ribband 300 boxes window gtafs
3 boxes tapes, assorted 800 Demijohns
1 d® bobbin, assorted jo boxes glass tsmblers
I box threais & tapes assorted
I do. fine blue liftados 1 hhds. pumice stone
5 chctts njen's flippers I box of mill fa ws
j d<#. bed ticks I calk of cuilery
1 calls hog's bridles A quantity of stone jugs
6 chells writing paput and pickling pots
4 do. quUlv A fsw ftips anchors, &c.
November i> tu&f-tf
John Miller, junr.
Has returned to the Gity,
AND IS SKM.OVING F ROM NO. 8, CSIXSNUT,
To the Five Storjr Building, in Dock
near Tbird-JJreet.
Where he has for Sale
250 Bales of Bengal Goods;
CONSISTING or
Cef&es
Bafuj
Marnoodiej
Jlurshums
Calicoes
Handkerchiefs, cS*c. tsV.
The remains of a Stock gf
DRY GOODS,
Cenjifting of IVoolens only,
AMONCJT THEM ARK,
Cloths
Coatings
Blankets
Kendal Cotton*
Hats, &c.
ALSO
l_ Old Rum,
Of a fine flavor, 3d© 4th proof.
nn'v 10 $
Forty Dollars Reward.
DESERTED,
From a Detachment of Men under my com
mand, at Camp IVefi Stbuy/iili, viz.
O&ober 19.
GEORGE KELLER, 40 years of age, 5
feet 6 inches in height, dark hair jfnd
complexion, hor.v in Holland, no Trade, speak»
broken Er.glifh aad very talkative, has a dimple
in his chin.
November 6. John Murphy, ay years of
J K e » 5 ' eet 7 i inchet in height, grey eyes, dark
hair and complexion, bom in Ireland, city of ]
Dub.in, by trade a Hozier. ,
Jacob Iden, 34 years of age, j feet 6 inches ;
grey eyes, landy hair, frefh complexion. (
born in New-England, state of a ,
repeated deAtftcV, by trade a Blackfrnith. ,
November 7. William Collins, 30 yeaVs of ,
age, 5 feet 6 inches high, sandy hair, frefh com- I j
plexion, grey eyes, born in Ireland, county ot
Wextord, a Gardner, has worked for |
some time about Philadelphia, he it very fond i
to hear himfelf Sing.
All the aboxedtfertert are very much addiil- (
ed to liquor, »nd will rake other people's pro
perty if in their power, are artificially marked
on their backs, had on, when they went away,
L j Nothing. Whufoever appre- ,
hendj said deserters, (hall receive forty dollars
reward, or tea dollars for each, with all reason
able expences, by applying to raeas above,
EDWARD MILLER, captain
id regime/ft of Iqfanpry commanding.
nov to
Charles Campbell, s
IV AT c H-M A K E R. [
TTAS removed to the Shop formerly occupied b
Frnnt HPI lVo '" 1 ' No - Corner of c
Front f nd Chef,mt-ftreets ; where he will thank c
and difpaich ° rders wltb "e»nefs j
"I HAS CONSTANTLY ON HAND, C
Neat and Large Affbrtment of r
Clocks Watches. v
WANTED, f
A JOURNEYMAN ; t
ble parents ooo tW ° A P^ rtlui «» of "W" f
-
FOR-SALE, I
A large quantity of Watch Glafles t
n r bolefalc and Retail. d
3»w ¥ ' »
Bank of tbe United States. 1
November 14. 1508.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIfEN,
'"THAT application will be made at the I'rea-
A fury ot the United States for the renewal
of a Certificate of Six per Cent Funded Debt,
°- fnr 18,781 dollars, 33 cents, dated ,
Kegilter s Office, January Bth, 1798, issued in
, n ' me . s J of William IVillink, Jan H'.llmk, '
A'cholaj J aeo b y a „ StapborJ} £s" Hubbard, t
J ruHees for sundry m.-ney lenders in Amller.
Uamj which wasforwarded the uthof Janua-
Ullrier tover to Nicholas Ohbes. efq.
and loft bv,he captiueof the ship Columbus,
captain Skianer,from New-York for Amlterd;m
G. Simpfon, cnfh'r.
, BCVI 4 xawtw
George Davis's
LAW-BOOK STO R E,
No. 319 Hich Str*it„
Latest London Irish Editions.
1 JiOKGE DA VlS's Fall importation is now
VJ arranged of which a more capital collec
tion he belie*es w3s never offered for sale either
t. in this City, London or Dublin It combines
almost every book in,with several valuable books f
' out of print. Davis's confining himfelf to the
0 sale of Law-Bo«ks only, it will appear obvious
to profe(S»nal Gentlemen, the advantages they
S ' have both ill feieAion and price by puriiiafing
from him.
His Catalogues befog ready, gentlemen will
particularly oblige him by calling for them—
. and to'thofe reliding at a dilbnee, by fovoring
him with their address (poll-paid) thty ihaH be
sent.
jiov i(S m&thini
ADVERTISEMENT.
d Todd & Mott,
Of the City of BJiiladelphia, Merchants, having
c afligned over their effe&s, raal/ pcrfonal, and
mixed, to the subscribers for the benefit of all
f their Creditors—
, Notice is hereby Given,
1 'I "O all persons who are indebted to the said
JL e(}ate; that they are required to make im
mediate payment of tbeir fefpe&ivc accounts to
. either of the assignees, or to William Mott, their
j agent duly authorized; in failure whereof legal
meal urea will be taken for the recovery of fu c,h
: debtsasate rot discharged without delay.
John Wadding! on 1
'John Rhodes > Assignees.
John Mien. J
nov, 46 til. th&fatFt
To be Sold,
OR EXCHANGED,
1 For property in the City, or within Thirty 1
miles of it,
1 A Valuable Plantation,
IN Tufcorora Valley, Miiflin county, containing
about three hundred acres, the whole capable
of cultivation. At_pxeijent
1 cleared, ao of which is a rich bottonT~of Meadow
Ground, enriched by a never failing ftrearo, that
has fall and water enough for all the purposes of I
a Country Mill. For iurther information apply at
" No. 68, Market flrce;. I
november 26 taw
N 0 T I C E. _
'■pHE Stnck-holdtrs of the Company encorporat
* cd for trying a Permanent Bridge over tbe
River Schuylkill, are requelled to attend their
annual meeting on the firft'Monday in January
next (being the ?th day of that month) at the City
Hall, at ten o'clock in the forenoon, for the pur- '
pose of. chooling a Prcfident, twelve DireSors and '
a Treafurcr of th-s said Company for the eqfuing '
year, as bylaw is directed, '
JOHN DORSEY, fec'y, pro tern. '
<!" 17 3iwt7jy
A CAUTION TO THE P ÜBLIC.
JOHN A. SHAEFFER, of Philadelphia, who has i
for a few years pad been m the southern States, <
has had the effrontery to draw several Bills of Ex- (
change on Timothy Pickering, Esq. Secretary of
State, and myfe|if,and by that means has defrauded
a number of persons of their money, deceiving
them by an exhibition of letters and papers with the
names affixed of divers public charsdleiii and repu
tahlp mfffhißli linHv '■"'H' —r c. r.
onarrter ; to one »l their p-iycrt l lmj ~
fubferibtd, but Ido not know the man ; thefc are 1
villatiTous torgsries! To prevent further impoCuon, e
I have to request the printers of Newspapers in the
United States topublilh this for the benefit of their
fellow-citizens. SAMU&L MEREDITH,
Trtafurer of Iti United Statct.
Trenton, New-
Ottobtr 24, I
NEW NOVELS-, PLATS,
MAGAZINES, (&.
Chalk's Circulating Library. t
No. 75, North Tbird-Jlrett.
THE Proprietor, in compliance with his pro- c
mifes to render this Inftitutioti a complete
source of rational amusement and inftru&ioij, !>y c
repeated acquisitions of eutertaining and interest- f
ing publications, has new added to his former 1
colleoSion Four Hundred Volumes of miscella
neous works, comprising nearly all -the lateff
publiji.ed Novell and Dramatic froduHions s—-
catalouges of which are ready for delivery to r
fuhfenbers. ®
N. B. Subscribers, and others, who Hill re- r
tiin Bocks taken from the Library previous to 1
the sickness, are requested to return them imme- 1
dutely : the fines will be charged from the i 4 tb t
of November.
<*■
For sale,
Pine flavored Imperial, Young Uyfoo, Hvfon,
Hvlon Skin, and Souchong TEAS.
M* tMnRw _
Valuable Property for Sale. /
FOR SALE,
THAT well known Estate, called at
SHREWSBURR FARM, formerly the tefidence ol
ot Guneral John Cadwaladar, fituitu on Saflufras 0I
River, in Kent county, Maryland—containing a
bout 1900 acres of prime LAND, upward* oi SOO
ot which are in woojs. The Buildings are all ex
cellent, and consist rf a handsome Dwelling House, in
two la ge Barns with Cowhoufei, Stables for fifty
horses, a rpeiiioustread : »g floor under cc(ver,a gra
nary, two Jvcrfeer's houlcs, tworanges of two (to-
ry buildingefor Negroes {one of them new of
brick), Corn houses a Smoak house, &c. &C —The
whole Elfate being nearly surrounded by water, it
requires but ittle lancing, and ha» a good Shad and
Heiring fifliery. It is conveniently situated for o
both I'hiladelphia and Baltimore markets, with is
two landings on a navigable river but aftiort tail tn
from Baltimore. There is a large Peach, and two te
large Apple Orchards on the prenufesjalfo, a varie
ty of excellent fruits of different kincs. The foil is
nioftly a rich logn,.—The whole wi4l be fold toge
ther or cividcd uitoiniulltr farms(for which the buil
dings are conveniently fituattd; as may suit tbe pur
hafer. ihe stock on said Farm, coslirtiag of Hor
cfes. Cattle, Sheep &c. will also be disposed of.—
For further particulars apply to Geohoe Hastings
on the premifes,or to the fubl'criber, inPtii.delphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, Jun.
December i». m. t j #
Notice.
ALL persons indebted to the Es
tate of Isaac l*LFA!*,Efq deceased, are requeu
ed 10 make immediate payment, and ihofe having a
nv demai d* fairt Estate will please to furnifh
thar accounts duly atteftcd for feitlcment to *\
GEORCfc Davis,
Atiorney in fa6l to ci
. JOHN M*KtM f jr.Ad'm'tr. as
! 3* aw6w fu
MAYOR'S OFFICE c .
REMOVED to !J7 South Second-street. |'
0»w
rH/s pat published
Br WILLIAM TOU%u
Corner of Chef„ ut ,nd Secoad-ftreeV.
JOAN of ARC '
An Epic Poem,
By Robert Snuticy ; -with *rt ft
w " WK »0C hesitate to dec arc our a; •
e " that the poetical powers difplaye<i ln a p,n# "l
!r vc 7 Superior-kind—Conceptions more W, *
» daring, fentimenfc more csmmandin.
" g ua K l nla J e f»"gttic ; win hot t afilj be '
>e nor doe. scarcely asy part of it fink into U
» at t ht> glow of feelings and geniu
y whok. The language for the most nJ, h:
ig defied o.i tUatof Milton ; and not unfreoti,„.i
has a ltrong rcWh at Shakespeare." qucntl r>«
II Monthly Rcvinu, vol. Jj >
g A HISTORY,
ie OR ANECIIOTKS OV THE
RL I OLUTION in RUSSIA
_ IN THE TEAR 1762.
T ran flat ed from the French of M dc p„n.-
"iL* mi" * ClZz>
fiThefecond edit,oh, pri ce j s ctß T*
The grounds of M. dc Rulhiere's i„'o'
seem indictable, and hit readers appear
g every reason to be fatisfied with his dif,
'1 in unfolding the motives and circuraft
1 concurred in bringihg about this flrikiti,
" We (hall only add, that we ha Te
with more interefling »rigi»iai an'
those that are contained in the littl>
we have now reviewed."
Appendix to Monthly Jkvit
0 dec 19
;r
|J •An excellent Horse ""
TO be fold on readable tv s
Stable. No. a 8 North 1 hird- .
N. B. T lie Hori'e beloii' .1 » .
one of the Troops in this C
dec 17
ALL P
Having claims .
SUSANNAH] „
r requeued t . present t „
NATHAN A.
or , %
JOHN DORSET, j m " or! -
e , nov 9 ,3aw6w
v district oFEESnsylvanja, To wit ,
r : 11 IT K&'MEMBE-RLD,
t7l * HAT on the twelfth day
J. of August, ill the twenty-third year of
A the Independence ot the United States of
America. Benjamin -Smith Burton, ef dif.
"ic!; h.ith deposited in this office the title ot a
. boofc the right whereof hj claims as uuthor in the
e words following to iwit :
" New Vkwscf tho Origin of the Tribes and
y " Nations of America—By V:«njami» Smith Bar
y « ton, M. D.Correfpondeiit Member of theSocie
. " ty of the Antiquaries of Scotland, Member «f
1 " the American Philosophical Society, Fellow of
r " the American Academy of Arts and Sciences of
' " Bofloa, Correfpoiididg Member of the Maffa
" ohufews Historical Society, and Piofelfor of
" Materia Medic*, Natural History and Botany
" in'the Univfcri'ty of Pejinfytvania "
In conformity to the aft of the Congress Of the
Unitsd States, intitled "An for tht encourage
s m«nt of. learning by fccuring the copies of maps,
. charts,and books, to the authors and proprietor,
of (uch copies during the times therein mtntionsd.'s
f SAMUEL CALDWELL, C.erk.Dift. of Penn'
1 November 2, 1798.
Java Coffee,
r B a gS of First Quality,
Wdtle^plN-mA
; John Ashmead,
No. 165, South Fr"tn- i Strert.
WHO HAS ON HAND,
For Sale, on reafonablt terms,
Coflaes
Bat'tas
Black Taffaties, &c.
dec ic < eodtf
Jvst Imported
Iron cannon, double fortified, Woolwich proof,
with their carriages complete—3, 4, 6 and 9
pounders.
Carrouades, Woolwich proof, with carriages, &c,
complete— 12, 18 and 14 pounders.
Ctnnoß powder in kegs of each
Round, double headed,and cannifler/hot
Patent fheaihijig copper, bright, aiTorted 18,29,
22, 24, 16 and 18 or per square foot, sheets 48
t by 14 inches, fuitahle for v«iTeU from xoo to
1000 tons
Copper nails, bolts aod fpilses
Boarding Pikes,
Common cutlalTes
Gunners (loraa of all kinds
Tin-plates No I —l-3 cross hues
l'atcot (hot in caflts of each
London porter and '■town ft»'it ( in caJks «f 7 do*«
bottled!
fear then ware in crates, assorted
• -3f
SIMON WALKER,
Pin« near jth ftrcet.
Q(stoher 19. co tf.
Insurance Company of North America.
THE STOCK HOLDERS,
are hefeby informed, that a stated meeting
of the Company will be held at their Office
on the Bth of January next, (being the se
cond Tuesday iu the Month) for the elec
tion of twenty-five Dire&crs £or the enfu«
ing year.
E. HAZARD, Sec'ry.
Dec. 12'h.
An Apprentice Wanted..
A TOUTH,
Of Reputabje Conne&toiis, it fufßcient
is wanted as an Apprentice to ihc Bufinc s of a No
tary Public and Conveyancer.—Enquire of the Prljir»
ter.
Dec. f. rn.avm;
FOR SAL E,
So. 7. South Fourtm-St*!* -x
1000 pieces Nankeens,
A J'oX of Silks
ao Boxes powdered Sugir Cindy of x'33Wt.
A parcel very fine CaflLi.
C. HAIGHT.
dec j 3awaw
For Sale,
A well improved Plantation,
Of one hundred and twenty acres,
VERY beautifully situated in the county »f
Montgomery, about twenty mile« from the
city.—Th« buildings are all new and finiflieii fa
a* to accon modate a genteel family only . Kor
further information, enquire the
Coat.-o(-Arms, nineteen milca from town, and
three aboVe Morris-town,
dtt-m'-w tj fii.&^tf