of tijc anc Philadelphia
NVM9MM 171 J.J
FOR SALE,
Weft Indian,
Philadelphia built, live oak and
is aoppared, fbcathed and bolted. 3 ytars
-►.<}, tails remarkably well, carries 15 a 1600 bar
£ rel»—not* lyiag at Beaeh-Artet wharf, resdy to
isad PETER BUSHf. ■
march 6. §iw
sal r:
3500 to 4000 bushels of large
grained SALT,
Fram St. Martin's on board the ship Spy, at the
Bt*Haofc whacf—for sale by
Stephen Kingston,
46, WalßutStreet.
rjb said SHir
Will fail in a few days
For Savannah in Georgia—For freight
or paiTage apply as above, or to the
Captain on board.
. f cbrgary >7 Vodjt
For Hamburgh,
TNS SHIP
Dominick Tsrrt,
Jacob Dehart, Mafitr,
.V*»TSmWR>i 'Having great part of her cargo ea
f*g«d.—-for frtight apply to
jejps & Rtbtrt Wain.
Ftbaiaty it . |
« & c eia
**n rot »Att,
ft hhds. of Jamaica Rxm
iideira Wme in pipes aad hhds.
enerifle do. in pipes
Old Port fid. in hhds.
Imperial Te« in (patters and eighths sf thefts I
Sail Canvass, No. r,ts|
Dimities, Ginghams, aad Moflinets, m paefca- [
get suitable far the Wrft-iodia market
Wilis aflarted
Black quart bottles J 1
Quetns ware m hhds. aad (rate* I <
Yellow ochre dry its •
And at New-York, on board the '
ship Dians, from Liverpool, expeAcd round I:
as soon as the navigation is open. 1
I»kw Liverpool ialt
Coats J
Spanish Brown 1 |'
Venetian Red I 1 1
Kwhh. n I paints
White Lead 1 h
Red J
Colcothar vitriol j
160 bundles Sheathing paper |*
Seaming Twine j j
Ship Diana,
For Sale or CbaiUr. I
*n», I
Brig Amazon.
firm of Philip Nicklin tc Co. I
is bow ehsnged to I
NTCKLIN & GRIFFITH.
Janaary I. eodtf
For Sale or Charter, J*
j&TI. Ht Snow | is
GOOD HOPE
Will carry about 1200 barrels, and I
issisSUt isready to take in a eargo. Forterms I p
Praters & Co.
No. 151, South Secosd-ftreet. j
Who harcfor ftlc—prime St Croix Sugar 1
aad Hum, Madera, Lisbon, and TenerifFe wine. I
November 7. dtf
For Sale by the Subscriber, J
Forty»nine bales of Muslins, being the re- [ b„
rnaios of the ship India's last cargo front I
Calcutta, and will be fold low,
7 Boxes of Umbrellas
Zg Pipes of fineft particular Madeira wine, I p
•f the vintage of 1795. I
Mordecai Leivit. I
February 19 d 2 w
JUST arrifedT
In the Ship Star, Joseph Woodman, master, from I
London, I
50 crates Queens' Ware, assort- "n
ed to suit Weft India market I
40 hoglheads Whiting
tsoo buflkels good House Coats I '
Also—just l*nd»d, pip
4eo barrels prime Beef, Boston and New-York I
SO barrels Pork I f
tjo hhds. Havaana Molafles I on .
Woolen Cloths^
Blanket* V a (Tor ted in sackarea I
Hard Ware
Ravens Duck |
Wind.w Glass in boxes, Bri. ifh, of various sizes
Black quart Bottles, in hamperaof x groce each I vv
A general assortment of queens' Ware, in crates I V*
fowling Pieces and Pistols, in cases [ „
la&xt firs Salt, in hogsheads f url
, Thou If* John Ketland. '£
r February if Capi
Three or four Single Gentlemen, } l
may be accommodated with n , .
Genteel Boarding and Lodging, I>L
On reasonable terms, by applying at No. »r
JTorth-ftreet, between Fifth and Slxth-ftrects ' Fe
, t February ij. |
Wanted,' J
An active, cleanly, industrious woman to cook N
4d do the buCnefs f the kUchtii. Such a one
111 he allowed good wages, and no other need apr
J —Enquire of the Printer.
yabruary 7 S K
Twenty Dollars Reward,
taking up a runaway servant Girl, named Dit
Abigail Miller, latterly calling herfelf Betsey Bei
Sml h, and fending her to North Front-street, No. 401
45. She is of a chunlty make , and very dark Fei
•complexion, with round leatares, and black bushy All,
hair t probably much altered by paint and pow- from
« i-ers, as H»c is hefecretc<] in houfrs of Ware
ill fane, though no more than fUteeu years of age. than a
eikrttrf fj>. co2w No
Will be fold on Wednesday the
lift of M)"l> •• i o'clock ib the evening, at
the Merchant/ Cofie-. ; ;.srf.- to c*<h,
lj X CRF.E WLY to the I. wai »atiteftament of
It and xTt William Heyftam, :r--td, "d poffcffn n
y.ars 8'"" i«HOedia:».', rrrinArih-
I bar- "Te#t, bttwren h i-.. j, con fill inj;
to ot the House No •' i. wi'h 4 ton *Mr}i it
If. . a Stable »tjv eia<r impr-,. fluents. The
i w house is to feet frost anj coiKaii 'a good apart -
meats. The lot ici-i i».c fame urraafH as the house,
and 209 feet deep, with a w ll of water, and a
Tffe ,er y «P» c 'ous 0 us walled cittern, both with pumps in
0 compleat repair. The flafcle Hands on the re rof
the lot, and *'ill accommodate four horses and a
it the carfia ?e. This property enjoys a perpetual privi
lege of a z t feet con it and au alley 8 feet wide, cx
tuading to Cherry ftrect Its central pofltion, and
the advantages it pofleffes with rtfpedt to free ven
<rt - tilation, renders it well worthy the attention of
any p«rfut wilhing to possess an eligible property
in Philadelphia
ci , Robert Htyjham, or 1 Afting
C \ l Francis Bowes Sayre, f Executors.
,dlt CONNILLY Co. Au&rs.
N. B. The house will be open two day* prrvi- I
ous to the fale.for tk iafpe&ion of thoie who wifli
to pwrchafe. rrvrch 7
1a be Lc ontht Shares,
:y, A valuable Farm ready stocked,
WI THIN 3 J miles from Philadelphia, pn the
' ' weft fide of Schuylkill, and near the turnpilta.
oea- ft is eapeSed the teiant will find suitable pet
fans t* take care of a dairy tad attend market,
[ t with all other nccelTary labour.
ALSO, WANTII,
A Gardener—a Single Man.
None need apply,<3n either cafe, unless thiy can
bring ffooa recommendations.
I E *"J»'re at No. ]t Market-street.
I * >arch s ~ jt»w
To be Sold,
I An elegant Country Scat,
lefls J Containing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a Mat
j two story brick House and kitchen therecr, an ap
:k»" j P'e Orchard, & c . situate on the Itifli trail lane, in
j the town (hip of Moyamenfing, about onemile from
J the city «f Philadelphia, further partculars will
j be made knowa upon application at tie ofßce of
I the Philadelphia Gazette.
j The improvements upon this place, br taste and '
t I elegance stand unrivalled.
j N. B. If the above place is nat folt before the (
md j 20th inft. it will than be rented, fortha Summer «
I season only. march j. |
J Notice 15 hereby giiren, Ji
I application will be made fir the renewal t
1 (i * a Certificate of a Share In tie Bank of the
J United States, standing name »f the Subfcri- 1
I J >er » No. J°°4i and dated July 11, 1797—the fame t
| having been loft.
JOHN GRAHAM. I
I march s >6w ti
1Z For Sale, ~ *
BYELLirjfy » j 0 HN PEROT, I
T * 4 '- N ° rti Street h
| London particular Madeira Win. „
J quart r calks, 4 years old and fit f •' P ? pe * *"
j Inferior or immediate use. *
J A few bales Allibad Coffes *
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Sail Canvass, No. i, to q ai
I A few bags of Juniper Berries C
j A parcel of Soal Leather* and
-o. I A few boxes of China.
march 1 tnJcf 4 w
BOR SAL£,
The Houle in Chefnut-ftreet,
j NEXT door but on« to the corner »f Fifth-flreet,
I occupied by the fubfLriber. Its eligible fixation *"
J is well known-—'! he rooms are spacious and too-
I venient, aad fin 1 filed in fiile— It has w
n,i f do " ble K ' tc hen, a«d excellent Cellar., with aa re
' D eind rain water Cistern, :nd th.re ia » w
I Pump of good water near the kitdun door.
I For terms anoly to -
GARRETT COTTRINGER.
j _march iL __ __ ilw T
a a r I TO LET" 1
■And may be entered on immediately,
A good dry Store, of
. , J hl " f efto r irs h'gh, and in an eicellent Hand for fci
e " bnfiaofs. Apply to itt
Thomas ftj* Jofbua Fiber, ?>
march '• S No r. Dock-frm. Le
FOR SALE, ' th<
By WHARTON & LEWIS, die
1 No. 115 South Front Street tie:
A quantity of Tanner's Oil, Co
4th proof Jamaica Rum, •» entitled ta o'c
Ift and idproaf Brandy, { drawbaolfc hi.
I Madeira Wine, 1
Juniper Berries, ice. &«, .
. rodtf '
Red Clover Seed ot the best quality. ~
j MADHIXA WIKE,
Old, and fit for immediate use, in pipes, half
I pipes and Quarter caks. "T
k TenerifFe Wine, G f
And, Window Ghf»_all of which will be fold BoP
I on very reasonable tirms, by j;
John Craig, qua
No. it. Dock Street. t ' lrc
I mwh ' w&stf rea
, NO T I C n
, I a Certificate to HannaS Satt.. may
1 0 *! y ' 0 OxttJ Cottage, in the County of JCi/a
Surrey, in Great-Britain, Splnfter, or her assigns O
for two thousand five hundred and futy-t wo dol- Mr
I lars twenty-three cents, in the deferred stock of £
the United States, was loft in the (hip Pc Eg y, ad al
Capt. Hyer, bound frora Philadelphia to London comi
r^. T f, Jr * 796 - Phe the f..id Han- empl
nah Shelly, intends to apply to the Treasury of the
the Umtad States, lar a renewal of the said Cer- ferr
tificate. ,4 n
HANNAH SHELLY. with
Feb. 13. iaw6w.
James C. & Fifher, ~~
AT TME;g STOSS,
No. 13, corner of Arch and Frent liraet.
IfjtrE n»* SALB, ■
Cotton and worsted Hosiery in trunks,affored" R
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannel Z, T
Ditto futty romall Handkerchisls .
Ditto I'ullicat silk ditto again
Ditto Pondicherry and Matkafs drtto J D< t
Ditto Gurrahs aeme
Bengnl black Taffeties '
4000 pieces Nankeens, and F® mr
Few chests best Hyson Tea tu
| loxt! , ljc(l London Window Glass, " Z'
from Bby 6, to 19 h y i 4 XJ hhds. Glafi, .. n ar
•• is
N °" 18 3-wtf
By John Fenno, N°- il9
PHILADELPHIAFRIDAY EVINBJG, MARCH 9, 1798.
the FOR SALE,
)g, at 400 barrels BE£F. •
Enquire of
,n i of George Pennael, »r
J*? 1 Gid. IJiU Wellt.
Jftrng -tf
r1 frcih l eas.
part- y u j} Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Cantos,
" . a And For Sale. by
2. SAMUEL HOWELL,
ind a Comptisg House, No. 54, Chtfant-ftreet,
irivi- AVD BY
ex- SAM. E. HOWELL,
and At hit Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon,Young
)er°y Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
' ALSO,
China Ware, afTerted ; black and coloured Lute
-0 firings and Sattiiift, Nankeens, CafTia, large garden
ors. and common Fans, fattin and luteflring Umbrellas,
r. whiU-bonc flicks.
rt-vi- "Tiev have also F»r Salt,
wilh EH wide Pcrfians, Bandanna Hanikerchiff*,
French Carabricks and Umbrellas, Sagai in boxes.
***— march S. §
ed > To-morrow will be Landed,
jj,,. Prom en board the brig Berijimin Franklin, capt.
J«ne«, from Bordeaux,
per- Claret of superior quality, v}z.
'k*» MEDOC ?Of the vintages of 1790 and 1701,
LATOUR. in cases
ALSO,
WHITE WINE, of the vintage M 1790
tan r oR bt
PHILIPS, CRAMOND Id Co.
; « L
NJNKEENS.
Ten thousand pieces Nankens,
EOR. SALE OS a libera rredit, by
»P- SAMUEL HAYS,
1 in No. I2y, Chefnut Street.
om 1 eod6t
'of , Custom House,
Djfiria of Pcnmitlvania, March 6it, Ijmy,
uid <-pHE MERCHANTS of PHILADELPHIA,
J. who may have any account or knowledge of
the capture or detention of any ftip or vessel, ear
ner go, or other property, belonging to citizens of the
United States, residing within this diftri&, by or
under the authority of foreign nations, Cnce the
1 I day of Oflober, 1791, are particularly reoueT
ted to give in information thereof, to the Ceilec
tor of the Port of Philadelphia, as soon at may 1
be cqnvenii nt ; fpecifying the name of the vessel, I
the captain's name, thc number of torn, the cfti
mated value of the vessel, if condemned, the esti
mated value of her cargo, or other property, whi- a
_ ther carried, and by, or under the authority of 0
what nation captured, with fuclj observations as ?
may he thought necessary upon thc circuiallancei !
I*y each cafe, in order that Aatements thereof may
be tr nfmitted to the Secretaiy of thc freafury, J'
nd who is required to lay the fame before the Senate 1
(e. j an d Houfie oi Representatives of the Unked States. *
I march j, i
At a MeerUig ot the Prelident "
and Managers of the Dilawa*! and Schuvlkili
I Canal Company, February 17th, 1798,
I Refoived, That ten dollarson each (hare of Stock
J be called for ; and that the Treasurer w
give public notice thereof agreeable ft
1 to law. ai
j Extradfrom the Minnies.
I GEORGE WORRALL, Secretary. J<
t, AGREEABLE to a resolution of the Prelident fa
in and Managers of the Delaware and Schuyllilt Canal H
I- I the Stockholders are hereby required to
as ni " c » payment of ten dollars on each of thair "
ia rel P e «iw stares on or before the ill of pril next,
» **„ . WM. GOVETT, Trcafnrer.
February »g. wtA
NOTICE
. TS hereby given, that the Subscriber, »n inful-
I -l vent debtor, confined in the common peal of
the County of Cape May in the state of New-
I Jeney, hath presented his petition to the Judges
I of the Inferior Court of Common Pleje, in and
r I for the said county, pra\ ing that ibey wouid "T
attend to hear what csn be alledged for or a
gainst his liberation, pursuant to an a<s) of the
I Legislature of this State,entitled "an a(9 for
" j the relief of insolvent debtors," palled the 26th
{ day of Ja:mry 1798—And the the said court
did appoint Monday the 26th day of March
I „ the P ur pose aforefaid ;to meet at the . ■
Court House iathe Middle Piecing, at eleven V
o clock, in the forenoon of the/aid day, »f which
hi» creditors are requested to take notice. -r
- „ CHARLES ALLEN. \
Cape May, Feb. 8, 1798. Sn
1 Feb. 14 —iaw;w al]l
Boftcn Glass Manufactory.
T"* "' iz , ent 0f the U> it d State are hereby ton
I n\r ' that of Window tioi
OJals is new commenced at the Glass House in ries
I Bolton
I It is ncedlefs to fay any thing of the excellent I
quality of the. BoiWn Glaf,, as it i, so well known felt
I hr P u £ hout the United States to be in every res- fife
re« gteatly superior to any ever imported Irom Lar
i fcuro pe. 1
I It will he tat to »py lite commonly uled : and
may b-. conflaotly had by applying to Cbaries f.
j Kyfer, at the Glaf Hou e
M?« cr * States to be addrtlfed to Anc
I Court-ftre-t, Boftrq.
tr Two or threi K »oJ Glass make rs ate wan-t
---ad at the above works; such as can producers- f)
comm mation. for goo«t behavior, maybe iiireol
I employ, by application to Mr. Georre L. Lindt at
the works. iVen without families w ,llbepre- " ■
l.owcver unacquainted with tkemethed
•u 1 '", R Cr ° Wn W "" Jow they will meet In
with th» fame encourage .Kent.
Bolion, January ,6 a.-jaw6w Late
FOR SALE, at ~~~
Wm. Young's Book Store, , T '
n COrn " ofChtfDu: street. Unit
|< F -' OR T 8f the Committee of the House of „"r
IV Representatives of the United States, appoint- ZZ',
to Pupate and report Articles of Im P fach nlent ?
agamft WIU.KIC BLOUNT, a Senator of ,hl Muh
Un.-ed States, .mpeached of high crime, and mist
demeanors, made in mirfnance of a refolu'ion if f° CU
the I ioufe ol Reprefeuiatives, authorise- the fa d '
Committee to fit during the reccfv of and Pr ° V '
inflruamg iliem "to enquire, and, by all lawful r*lT
means, to difcovcr the whole Batur- and . t
" of thtoffeflpe whereof the (aid William Bjount
• aa,-"" 1 ™ s pjs
S Fel
! LANDING,
AMD rot till,
he Cargb of tiic £hip Fair Alftsrican,
■met Bui ke, mailer, Crura now ly
ing at Bet!'a wharf,
cuNsifTtva tr
lolafles, Co {Fee, Sugar and Dye
Wvod,
Apply to
ISAAC HARVKV, jun.
5, South Water-ftrect.
3 mo. 6.
The Comuiiili oners
'OR carrying into •ffeft th« TWENTY-FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Friend/hip, Limits,and
vigation, Uetwem Hii Catholic Majefky anj the
ited Suits of America, hereby give information
all Persons therein concerned—l hat in order
terminate all differences, on account of theloff
uftaioed by the citizens of the United States, in
J'equence of their Yeffels nd Cargoes having
n taken by the Sulje&s of His Carholic Majel
during the late war between£pain and Frauti,
t they are ready to receive (at their Office, be
:en the hours of ten and one o'clock, daily) all
iplaints and applications authorized by the fa id
icle, during ticm ien mohvhs, from the day
:he date hereof, and that ttfy have power to
nine allfuch perfonsa» c*ma before them, on
1 er affirmation, touching the com lainfs in
ftion, and also to rective in evidence, all writ
teftimony, authenticated In such manner as
■ fball think proper to reflate or admit
£y Order of lbP Comtr??fft^rrs
P£TER LOHEiA, Secretary.
mijjionert Office, Nt>. 109, MuUerry
■ect, May 17/4, 1797.
Feb. 2IS, '98 — Itn
I* Theft- Printers in He fevered Slates wto publift>- 4
v above advert./went lajt Spring, are retfueJUJ to
btijt it one month, <md fend theit ' 'account* to 2*. L. | j
~~~ToiTSALE; Br
William Priestman,
15, South Fifth-Ore t, next door to the War
Office, 1
& large aflortment of Silver Watches \
Time Keeper, by Arnold /
Geld Watch, by Mudgje and Pulton f
Ditto, EUicott
Ditto, Holmes
Double barrelled Gun, Mortimer
Ditto, Parker J
Pair Pistols, Knubley
60 lb. Scotch Thread
Two groce Watch Dials, and
Some gold Watch Hands
■ Ready money given for any quantity of Si
r other watches. march 2—*6t
'HE Sublcriber informs those
J|~ JL to whom he is indebted, that a person will
j,j. attend every day, Sundays excepted, until the ift
o{ of April next, from the hours of 10 o'clock inthe
m morning till a o'clock in the afternoon, at the house
- cs formerly occupied by him in Chefent-Oreet, for
' the putpa.'e of Ihewing all books, papers and let
y ' er * rr ß»tdin£ his past commercial tranfa<flions to
ite' f of as may think proper to attend
and examine them.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
ft eoti*
ii For Sale,
A good situation for a Obuntry Siat,
wfv I aC f re ® of laDd on Old Vork Road,
er within fight of Germantown and about five miles
C n y ' thC VVh °' C bei "" uudcr P° ad toice,
and in excellent order as padure ground.
For further information and "terms, apply to
st £\ tlK eu , 'Wn CKESSON ' 31 h " ° ffi " the
h High-ilreet. Conveyancing, 3cc. No. 54, _
ir a ' imo ; r " h - »»w>v
t, Thick Medium Paper,
fuitahle for coppr- plate printing
Englifb and American WK| I'ING I'APER
PARCH »lENT and VELL U VI
For Sale by
' ■ J v f e pk a "d Jamet Crutjhanl, q"
"• •* ¥ ">zz- a
'* TO LET, of
a And poff ffian yjvai the id April next, * in 1
* TheHouieNo. 258 High-street, En
e At present occupied by P. Bhtlir, Efa. cu .
r Applyto ~
1 Edward Shoemaker,
1 _ A No. IZ7, High ttreet. *
' February z 4 eod.,w
1 Canal Lottery---»No. 11.
commence drawing Monrlay, the aoth Co
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery at Sat
Seven Dollar,. at W„. BI.ACKBURN's Lottery Hu
and Brokers Office, No. 6,, South Secoud-ftreet— Ulu
lckets m the hchuylkil l Bridge Lottery, at Ten Chi
Dollar, where check books are kept ior register- M a
ing and exsmin.ng in these, the City of Wafting-" Ma
ton, No 11.and Pattvrlbn Lotteries, and informa- Gi,
■ tion where tickets may be bad in most of the Lotte- Gll
Union 10 M3f ° f thc stateS of the Gu
f .J! I'® 1 '®-j l js^* ISnrf,of a Bkoke*, inbuyingand o'k
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities, nni
pfco.Bting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of S
Lands, Houles, &e. &c. will be duly attended to,
y N , BLACKBURN.
November 15.
Lately PublifliedT ~
And t» be fold by WILLIAM YOUNU, cernej of
Second and Chefnut streets, Oft
nLr ,fPrk ' 3 °f" dollar) com
Übjervations on certain Documents Mar
Contained in Nb. V and VI of A
" T ' ne History of the United States for £ am
the year 1796,"
In which the charcc of spfcolatiov a?aißlt
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secritak\ i, FDILY Fror
WRITTEN BT TIT MS ELS B
This publication rrefents a concfe llaremtnt of
the hafe meacs pradlifed by the Jacobins of the W
United States to asperse the charaflers cftlofe
pcrfons who are considered as hi!'ile their difor»
| ganizmgfchemrs. It also cowtains the correfpon. »r
dence between Mr. Hamilton an,: MelTrs. Monroe "
Mu-.lenburj and Venable, on th»fuSjedl of the
documents aforefaid, and a f. rcs of lerten from
James Reynolds and his wife to Mr Hamilton »
proving beyond the possibility of a doubt,
eenneclion hetv/een him and Reynolds was the re
sult of a daring ceul piracy on the part of the let- Be.
ter and his aflociates to extort mopey.
rJi? , dlfcon j nt . °f °ne third fror.i thc retail St.
price will be niadem favor of whelctflc purcha- anc
You/f CASU ' ° rd * r ' te b# t» Mr. 30c
February f.
r terra of Co-partner(hip between the sub*
' L fcribers, trading under the firm of John Mil
ler,jun.aad Co. expire*this day, and by mutual
C2n, ccnfnit wiH not be renewed* The del t> and eon
s if- «ra« * * * 1 fcy ' -k.-- MiII-#.
Jun. Tv whom • ■ ■ 1
are ea: ' 0
W e outde
'• -JSfc
L f - K■ -
—• From on boa.2 tic §hij. iaii. fronv
Calcutta,
JST ANI? ro * ,AIE BY ™* sya»c»iM*»
and
i6oo hags prime Sugar,
i the 800 do. Ginger
Hon 30 bales low priced pit ce Goods.
rd ' r John Miller, Jun.
ring JOR SALEj If'
i cl ; John Miller, jun.
N«. 8, (?befmit ftrrct,
■aii A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
—Mll<>Sf»ST VHitl Altl—•
day Currah» M.meodies
to Bafus .-i annas
o® Cuzzenas I anda Coflaes
in Guzzies Emertie*
ft- Blue Cloths 4 ali' »cs
as Palam x oor» KomaJl Handkerchiefs
Among!! them are a great proportion of the nuN
»uia4Ure« of f'atna.
Britilh Dry Goods,
ALSO,
Forty puncheons ot high proof 1 urn.
<»ri.ai 1Q £
«. Alex. J. Miller & Jamerlbivu,
H-iring entered into partuerlhip under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller Sff Co.
TNFORM tHeir friends in town rod country, tha{
ar 4 th yhate opened a WholTile !)ry Goo. '.Store,
at No 64, South Pr»nt Street, Phihdel phia ; wher«
they now have, and intend Itceeping a general as
es fnjtment cf India, Germs*, Irijb, French and Brt"
tijk Mannfa&uresfot sale, an advantageous terms'
for cash or a fiiort creoit.
February 19 # s t f
Landing
Frem on board the Snow Maria, from Copcn•
hagen,
A few Tons Russia Clean Hemp
3fo pieces Havens Duilc
1- *3° pieces Ruffi 1 Sheeting
ioo bolts Russia Duck, and
■" A qumtity of Swede* Irtm
For > ale by
ll JOSEPH ANTHONY & Co.
L ift and »d pro: f Boordeaux Brasdy
4th procf SpaniOi ditto
.. New-England Rum
' London Particular") ~ . .
and C Wine In Pip#f
London Market 5 and luarter1 uarter Caflw -
Old Claret in Cifcs
14 hhds Coffee jnftarrived
Bell Bo.'ton Beef in barrel*
Mackrell ;n do.
Halifax Salmon in do.
f A small invoice of Rhode-Island Ghesft
a Speimaciti Oil
Tanners ditto
No. 1, j, 3, Boflon Sail Duck
> kwffia Cordape, and
: An Invoice of Dutch Hollow Glafc Ware,
. Marc h '• dtw
French Circulating Library,
JOSEPH t.. G M Oe La GRANGE,
I No ' 11 >Valnut-ftreet,
NFORMS those who wi<h to recur to the only
means of becoming perfeA in the French Lan.
guage.that he has ju'.t opened hw Libraky, con.
luting of upwards of 1 coo volume, the bed cal.
cuiated to afford either us !u, intlruclion, or plea.
lure. ; he conditions, tog;rthcr with a catalogue
of the Ui.rary, miy be fcen at every book-feller'i
in town.
N - B. All tranijations from and into the French,
Englnh and Spanish Languages, execu-.ee n ith ac«
eurac\ and difratch. nov.ix.
FOR SALE,
s ' BSCRIB No. ii, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander, from Bengal,
Cuttftjling of
Baftag, of various qualities and pricej-
f offa . e ® Punjum Cloths
Gu7geydo
Hurnhum* Charconna Dorea
Bl«e Ch-th Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmul#
Mainoody9 Checks
Maliaragonges PaliM Hkf«.
Ginghams Mwltnui do.
Guzzenas B<:ndatinoes
Gurrahs Sillerfoy
Pimafcoes Choppa R oma U
halgatchy. Soorv do _
&p2t C.
aoo tons SUGAR
»fl,ooo lb. PEPPEK.
Willing.r y Francis.
I The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
commodious store the nonh weft corn
Market and Fourth-streets.
Also—A few Bales of Ma<lrafs Hkfs. of c le_
gant patten s and best colour*
February g. dtf
Landing this day,
From on board th. sc hooner Two Friends, Dan
o V, , ,e Cr » w| ey, Mailer,
80 hhds. and / I . r.V,* .
n pipe« 5 Jamaica RUM^
FOR SALR by
George Latimer £ff Son.
November o
ROSS £sf SIMSON,
have for sale,
A few bales B-aftas, Coffas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in tags and boxes '
Jamaica, -)
St. Vincents, i RUM.
and Ui-ngal j
300 calks RICE, rnd
A parcel #f ihip k»il#inj R£JJ CEDAR
OH 21. ' ,
[Volume XIII.- FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
AMILATED FROM FA»I* FAPERI
HAMBURGH, November it.
There is a repi-rt of 1 revolution in Rtiffia J
'bat the emperor has been dethroned by his
Trife. and that m Pcte.lhnrg every thing is m
coNl'-emation, rhoogh tranquil. I his is only a P
eopy of what happened under the last reign,
defervet no credit ; but it i' certain tl.it
fomcthing extraordinary hat parted at theennrt
«f RulTia. The newt fronn that country Ipeaks P
of nothing but tbe crazy condufl of Paul I. He
I i4ererm:ied by •« hb "ho— —♦ tf
At tht mow ml ih*' • ■" •
rr. :ar 4c Li He sn anauil revr-
Trf-«, he driven L*>-• tri»
d'/n!i-ri.»r'T»Sl.e « a ater.te. *lw
wcreatta.h Tl-» pnnce coi.d . »*
with - m tfr.ds. -ftratu- -f"
b' enuof-j rVr-snjrf sateiy b' e y
-jv<>lt . • - yt" -"-tc - j
tronps near hivi- Some days after, a falfe re- c .
port was given, and instantly all the troops
were on foot. The emperor was so struck with
the promptitude with whieh they repaired t» ,ft
tbe post assigned. that he believed that the re»
volt had really taken place. It w»t diHieult to 1
undeceive him, and when he found hit mistake,
be became furiuut struck some if the feldiers m
with hi* sabre, and turned nut c«eers.
We are assured that tbi» prince, in the height P<
«f bis madbels, runt about the ftreett with the
erown on hit head, and ihelceptre in bit hand, ci
To these report*, which perhaps are exagge- tr
rated or falfe, we may oppof# tails which Ihew *"
that a political system is ftriflty enough pursued.
Paul. 1. appear* firmly rcfolved to hold with
England, because the marine of that power sup- *'
pertt the Rnffian navigation in the North Sea* "
and the Archipelago.
BERLIN, No*. 17. {!
The death of the king hat not produced any lc
great sensation her*. His diford*r,long known q
to be incurable, had prepared for thia event.— 61
Frederick William it regretted on account of
bis personal qualitiet. H* wit ja y<ait ofage, 7
of * hich he reigned la. He preserved to the
lift sigh an nnalteraWt tranquillity and presence
of mind- He wat, it it known, hydropic, and 1
wat ftifled by th* swelling. Under him Prussia
wa* extended by the partition of Poland, but c ,
without any great eclat, and without taking a- f
qj advantage of the happy position, in which he p
was pUced by the peace he made with France, tc
to influence the deftiniet of Europe. ■ f (
It appear* thu tbe arreftationt by which the r)
new reign has commenced, are a kind of satis j
fa&ion made to the popular discontent. That „
ot the counteft Reitz was above all demanded, d
The people had lunounded her house in multi- a ,
tudes, and threatened to forte tbe dcor* and Cl
break her furniture. They were furion* on ac- t |
ccun: of the nvmerout prodigalitie* draw* from j,
tic weaknef* of tliedying king. I« waeeven said. f,
that his long agony was abnfed by iatrigue* of
eve. y kind, and that his feai and fignaturehad fj
been made use of vith a impudence.
The new king f* between »6 and *7 years ot
age. A s focn as he was apprised ot the death of t |
his father, the gate* weie Ant till his pro- ,
el*mation, and the oath of his troop*. t
Before taking any lh*re in bufineli, he wa* t ;
ciflifidered as an enemy of the Austrian fyliem, „
and attached to Prince Henry, who it ia a mm- p
ntr the head of the French party at Berlin, not „
he likes, more than every other prince, v
the principles of French republ canifm, but be- a
caule he h2t alwayt been persuaded that the f
fyflem of union with the firft contin*tal power, t
it the most advantageous to Prussia to balance f
the influence of the emperor of Germany.
The l» years reign of Frederic-VV'illum 11. t
(who died'ye fterd, y) wat nnt Cgnalixed by a- t
ny remarkable event, if that may not be called ,
so, that he was firft to declare against, and the f
firft to declare for, the French revolntion. The t
motives of thu condufl are still an enigma. He
bewever leave* among hit people a great repii- j
tation for goodness of heart. lie was also the f
grcatift eater in Europe. 1
Frederic-Witliam 111 hi* fucceflor, wat born
Aug. 3,1770. He is of a strong complexion, ,
and very sober. He loves the military art, and
it beloved by the foloiert. But hit moral qual |
ities are developed with little eclat, at d the ,
knowledge we have of them givet ve:y little ,
gronnd tor conjeflure. We only know, that of .
a'.l his relations, he is not the molt affectionate
towards th* house of and that it it not ,
probable he will impair the repuut.on acquired :
by the cabinet of B-rlin, and have interest as a
prime counsellor, and weigh every thing with
goldtn wcigntt.
VENICE, November 1.
Since the conditions of tbe treaty of peace of
Udine have been knoun, and that it it decided
that we are to belong to the emperor, pur mu
nicipal officert, Vn defpsir at feeing their domi
nation! fjfoon tern,inaied, endeavour to excite
a faiSlious opinion, that the people will run all
ri&s rather than renounce their liberty and in
dependence Saturday last, the primary a (Tern
blies of the city met in the different churches, by
order of the municipality. Tbe population of
Venice is 15c, ot c foul*, and the number of vot
ers o,ooo* Those who met on this occafton
amounted to 15, cOO. " Is it your will to li f
under a democratic government!" This was the
queilion ; to wh.ch it, >o in the as
ltrmative, the reft in the negitlve. Not» ith
ftanding the majority of votes, and the refufal
of the relt ot the inhabitants to participate in
the deliberations, the munic.pslity thought it
bad a right to fend deputies to Paris, to impart
to the directory the Wj/h of the people of Venue
for liberty. Ihefe deputies aie charged to
make the greatest efforts to hinder the ratifica
tions of the treaty of peace with the emperor,
if the ceflion of tbe Venetian Hates to 'Auflria
ffioutd be foui dto have been flipulated. 'I hey
ought, fay some, to demand the rellitution of
(he artillery, arms and ammunition -a hich tbe
French have taken from our arsenal.
PARlS,November it.
While Buonaparte is rendering in Italy, bom
and adnr«iien to the beneficent influence of
religion, certain fools in Paris am use then.selves
with attempts to realize the chimera of a etple
ofathcijts. They have publil) ed a pamphlet en
titled, " <u.*rjbip and laics of a fotiety ef men
ivitlout God :—The following are a part of the
articles of their profeffipn :
" 'The men tuitl.out God prefefs one worlhip.
Virtue only is its objedl.
" Th*y hold open a grand look for the col
legian and preservation of honourable traits for 1
the human species.
" This -volume, the material objtfl rf the
worfliip of men without God, will contain all
the good that hat beui or frail be done.
" 1 heir eltablifcmenl has fpccially in view
the rising generation.
" But tity pardon beforehar.d thofc men of
God oho alufe them
•' The rlear sighted canno'wifh to receive
injury from tt:e firckeof the blind man'* Itick.
' Thev willaiwiys fatiti'y
nfult thsui in private.
« They wiH receive the cob- ■
ft. rati■ « of inf-ints to vicLie
-44 '! hey are alt frc* , .
" No one i* leceived there n before the 5 t
vear of a well fjWnffe'. ,
' •« A fotirjy without Goil, fconM be more per
fe<fl than'any other. , ~
" TholVvAo belong to it, must be unblem
" They are to prove that they Wave never
fpill-J blood f
«' Their hands (hall be at pure at their la
heart! —at incorrupt l» their m ndi. . . . j'
«• Proud of their in>p*nee, they refute the hi
protedlion of government. - at
" But they chim from them the fame r pa
wbirb -they pay to those wh tbuA * hi
«« They renounce the magiftraty of the coun
try, and confine iWjmfcWe* to that of thought.
1 hey are not deftitnte of country. tl
«If ci»il war (hould break out. they one and t<
all lesve itrwith ihe grandhook nfwW "P« D ,s b
their head, an I travelling through public placet ,
«r> out, with ihat authority which it derived
froth prey hairt—OW*«J. ground your arms
before tie took of virtue ! Jo not full] tts pages
!»«-»« » J
the field* of their dead. t
" There they will invelope thtmfelvet whh t |
their mantle, and wait..... /
«Ifimprifooed,th*y will only meditate the
mere deeply.
•• If conduced to punilhracat, they will re- t'
peat their bymtu t» virtue.
" Should they only be condemned to 0.-rat
cifm, they will part with their families, under t
the hope of founding in force defart illind, a n
virtuous colony far from priefU and tyrants. j_
November »t-
The vth Meffidor last, citizen Lebruge wat g
at the theatre of the sorest of St. Germain. C.i
tizen More lien, who was in the front boxes f
marked him at the aflafGn of the ci-devant j
priacefs de Lamballe, it he who tore out her f
icart.at he who set on the people. The most-
fcriont events would have taken place in conir
quenee of his being know?>, had he net have
been protected by the guard.
Translated for the Bejhn Cbrontch 1 front Paris t
papers to (ith January. i
PROJECTED DESCENT ON ENGLAND. }
fThefe papers aie filled with articles con- j
cerning the defccnt on England. The whole t
French nation seems to be intoxicated with this
projeil 1 the corporations, the -.ndivtdualt fcem
to be fired with the most enthuuaftic patriotism, *•
for the fucceft of the expedition ; all over the t
republic voluntary contributions are made to 4
defray the expence attendant thereon ; the (
merchants of the city of Paris alone offered the (
diretflory 40 millions for that purpose, and the
addreflcs sent by the popular bodies to the two
councils, breathe the strongest hatred against
the Englilh government. The public may 1
jidge from an ex trail of these addrcflt* :—it I
fays,] ]
" At the very name of England the Blood j
fttrts in our veins, and the hi *rt shudders with j
indignation.
" The adminiftratort, the peace officers, and
the agents of the central office, deposit on the 1
altar of their country, the film of 4739-francs,- I
the amount of a fubfeription opened, to defray |
the expenceof a war against the Englilh govern- (
meot, the hatred of which has increifed in pro- ,
portion to its crimes It has reached its pin- (
naele ; it is a national hatred ; it pervades the
whole body politic < the !amilies,the ind vidu '
als, all excite and animate one another ; the de- •
fire of vengeance is with them a public virtue, 1
that inflames th«m with an ardor fiinilar to the j
fa«red4ove of their country. ; ; i
•' Ah I who could view with cold blood all (
the enormities, that herrid government has |
been guilty of i has it not fettered, and daftard
ized the English nation, heretofore so proud
of its liberty ! has it not dyed Bengal with the
blood ofitswretc ed inhabitants ? has it not
lharpened the daggers in the midst of us, and
lighted the torch of civil war ? does it not deny
food to ia,ooo French whom the fate of war
has thrown in its power ?
•« To complete the horrid florv, this very go
vernment boa Its of being the most philosophical!
'« No, the lulert of England have nothing
humane; and we can compare them no long
er to any thing but to those ravenous wolves,
used to prey on human flefli, and whose ftom
ach' rtje# every food.
" But while the thirst for revenge consumes
us, and since every Frenchmanis eager to quench
it, let U6 not be unmindful of the f-ite of 2 ,000
' men, that groan in the ungeons ot Great Bri
tain—let us haflen to their relief, and let eve
ry citizen view it as his duty, to contribute to
their comfort, till the happy moment of tiieir
deliverance.
" The central office prnpofes opening a new
' fubfaription, defigced to alleviate their dillrefs.
« Happy, if it can dry thp tears of the wretch
" ed I yet h*ppier if it* example it followed by
i others !
1 " Receivs, citizen President, the exprelfion of I
our refpefl and our devotion.
The cMminifiratori of the central ojiee,
r '' LFSJORE,
(Signed) 44 couit*,
" tfrtLti tt.
1 Tie tommifjiontr of tbe executive direSorj,
(Signed) " BnVDix."
* # * The Subscribers for tbe publication
1 under the ftgnature of SciP/O, are inform
| ed that it is novi ready for delivery. The
t price is 2$ Cents.
I
About 30 acres of ground, with a good house,
garden, (tables, #c.about 4 i-x miles trom town
* immediate pofiedien mav be had. '
! PETER BLIGHT.
,f February ly jiot
f Prison Manufaftory.
FOR SJLE,
j. At the Priori of the City and County of PhiladeW
of P hia .
C 3 Cut Nails of all (Ties, from 3dy to »ody
[ e Flooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and card Tacks
Oaknm and chipped Logwrod
Shocm.ikt-tsand Sadl.rs Thread
AMb—Sawed Marble, fuiublt for currier's tabie*,
1 tomb and hea Itones, hearth', chimney pieces,
platforms, slabs, lacia, window bea4s fills c .
P" All which ir.ay he had on reasonable terms,
Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at
»- a moderate price.
or . Orders from a dirtancc, dire&,.d to Daniel Tho
hia«, agent Jor the pnifon, will be attended tc.
Pcccm-gr 16. mtl,6m
i>t. Croix Sugars.
w »6 hoglheads best ST. CKOIX SUGAR,
FOR BALE BY
°f JOHN NIXON Co.
9 vrtf
Hyion and \oung Hyson Tea.
n- A few chcufof fxcrllcnt quality, for fa'e, cor
I ncr of Second and Pine
C 0 N a_R E s s.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, not
lie*
FOREIGN INTERCOURSE. pla<
(hoi
WFDHESDAY FSBRWARY 28. t J, e .
Mr. Macon had no doubts as to thecwn- r y j
ftitutionality of the present queftton. Ihe and
fame claul'e of the constitution whicn gave
the President power to appoint judges, gave f cre
him the power to appoint foreign mini Iters; < j rf(
and he be'ieved he had the fanae right to fay faß<
to what place a minister should be lent, that re f o
he had to fay where a court should be held. ?
It had been observed Mr. M- said, that
there was a party in that house w-*o willed j
to infringe andproftrate theExccutirerig ts;
but it had been clearly (hewn that there had
never been such an attempt made. ■
The time was said tobe improper for mak
ing the proposed regulation; it appeared ,c_,
him expressly contrary. From the 4th or
July 1776, all the foreign ministers who had r
been in this country had done more harm
than ours had done good in foreign conntries.
As early a» theyear 1785, the inconvenience
had been felt. But it was said to be a mat
ter of politeness, and if foreign governments
sent ministers here, we mud also fend mimf
ters to them. He wished to get clear of ™ r '
this business; but he believed we had lent
ministers to countries from whence none had
been returned, so that that rule was not a
general one.
It had been said, speeches were made wa
from one fide «f the house to tht galleries. P
He believed that both fides had done'the u ' c
fame, for gentlemen allowed they did not
expedt to make converts in that house, and
therefore thsy mnft have spoken to the pub
li- ' ''
A fubjeft had been introduced which he
thought ought not to have been mentioned "
in that house, he meant the condu£\ which co
it was [aid the Pjefident had adopted of ap- 1 " a
pointing to office pcifons of one opinion on
ly. This might be attended with great in- 1
convenience. Suppose the President and \
Vice-President were, at , any time of differ- 31
ent political opinions, if the former were to r<
die, the latter, if this system was to be aft- S r
ed upon, mud turn out all persons in office, jy*
which would certainly appear an exiraordi.
nary measure.
It was said the gentleman from Virginia, ° r
and those who supported the amendment,
wished to violate the constitution and over- wl
threw the government. This charge was P '
principally made again ft members of the a '
southern Sates, than in which he would ven- to
ture to fay, the laws of the United States P°
had no where been better executed; forth*'
their members in that house had generally ls
been a minority, no instance of opposition
to the laws had ever occurred, and in cafe *°
of a diffolatioa of the government, they **'
would certainly have nothing to gain, but .
would molt probably, in any convulsion* be °*
the greatest losers. Why, then, were these 'J 1
arguments brought here ? Was it to impress '
it upon tbe minds of citizens of other parts
of tb»Hni>rd£rat»». th»t th»v fo"<L S
"oF government; that they wiflied to live in
disorder ? There was no truth to lupport P £
the charge Some gentlemen had charged r 5
them with wishing to stop the wheels of gov
ernment, whilst others had spoken of them,
as wilhing to add a fifth wheel to,it, so that ®
one supposed them to stop its course, and
the other to make its movements too rapid.
They had nothing which looked like disor
ganization in their part of the country. E- 11
ven their newspapers vverefilent on that head; 111
he wilhed he could fay as much for papers
in another part of the Union. It was clear, C(
if any part of the country had a right to P
complain, it would be the southern dates, v
as many of the laws bore hardly upon 11
them, and none of them afforded them any c:
, advantage. n
But it was observed, that if our foreign rl
ministers were done away, we should have 0
' secret spies. He believed we had now not ei
only public but secret spies. It was not
, long since they had a report before them f
which (hewed that we had had a secret spy j 1
in a public minister, who had engaged in a 11
• plan which might have involved this country F
I in a war, had it not been timely discovered.
He hoped, however, every department of 1
government had exerted themselves to devel- v
ope this mysterious business.
It was said, that it was probable this mo- '
tion had its origin in a disappointment which c
gentlemen felt in the election of President. '
He did not believe that this'had had any t
" ; effect, and during, the late Presidency, an <
' attempt was made to retrench the peefent ex- *
- penditure.' As well might he lay that what | c
e '"bad fallen from the gentleman from Connec- i '
j ticut (Mr. Goodrich) was intended to ia- ]
- jure the Vice-Prcfitlmt. '
j Mr. M. would not boast of what the
'■> southern states had done; but lie would fay 1
' what they had not done; the* had not been '
the promoters of banks, funding and excifc 1
fyflerrs, Jiamp' ads, &c.
Mr. M. said, he thought aa observation 1
made by the gentleman from Mew-York,
yesterday, went wholly againtt his own doc
trine, viz. that appointments to office made
ten enemies to one friend. He believed the
csntrary was the 'truth, and that the Gov
ernor of the state of New-York had remain
ed a long time in office principally from the
support which that patronage gave him.-w
*> The fame gentleman was equally unfortunate
' in his reference to the amendment proposed
by the legislature of Virginia to the consi
st tut ion, as the words of that amendment
1 were that the House of Representatives have
°* ' and ought to have the power in queftionfMr.
Williams said he alluded to the amendmei t
~ proposed two years ago which was different
ly exprefled.J
Mr. M. did not know what gentlemen
meant when they spoke of the usurpations
of that House over the other branches of
the government, such a remark could only
3 t be intended to impose upon the people out
)r of dcors.
:f Mr. M. said, tbe queilioa was a simple |
* «ne. It was whether that House Would wct<
undertake to regulate the salaries of Foreign houi
ministers. The right of doing this could then
not be doubted ; f»r though he did not be- to b<
lieve the House had a right t» fay to what / cede
places ministers ftould be sent, a:id what .j But
fliould be their grade, he did belie»e that < his t
they had a right to fay, that so much fala- j a hu
" ry fliould be given to ministers at one place the j
e and so much at another ; and-this was pro- lowi
e per, since the different style ofJliying in dif- quef
e ferent places made four thousand five hun- coul
' dred dollars at one court, equal to nine thou- at la
y sand at another. H f hoped, therefore, the of h
c resolution would bd adopted. csmi
I Mr. Thatchzr agreed with tbe gentle
j man just fat dowi£" that much unncctffary
matter had been iiitpoduced into the present
j' debate. He betteved it rauil have struck e- eye l
very one, that most of the topics which had
been discussed related little to the bill itfelf-
He was of opinion that the mover himfelf I . ou .
,f of the amendment, thought it of little im- n
j portance; because the law would expire at morc
n the end of two years, and he had frequent
-5 ly said he did not wifti hi 3 proposed regula- V.
'J tion to take immediate effed, so that the ' tu
' time betwixt the laws Uking effeft. and its
s expiration, could not make the law of much ' 1
j- consequence. The gentleman had, there- £ er . ta
fore, considered this amtndment merely as , xln;
' an oocaCon to reprehend whatever he diflik- . 1X
j ed. Mr. Thatcher said, he should make a oe P'
a few observations upon wlat the gentleman a ne '
had declared he had in view in bringing for- ,
| c ward the amendment, vj*. to bring the di-' 1 '
s plomatic eftablilhment t» what it was from | er ®
the year 1790 to 1796, wlien it was depart- end
)t ed from, and to preven: an hicreafe of our a '
1( j Foreign ministers. e
Mr. Thatcher advtrted to the law of . ■
1790, of which he said that tl»e present bill
i ie was nearly a tranfeript ; that there was no- cQnt
•d t '" n » ,n t ' l,s to ?' ter , ' ,e f* sre 'g n inter-
courfe tftablilhment (if it were dsf-r-ing tK<,
__ name yf an eftablifbment); for if a larger w
sum of tf.onef was gVanted for the War or
n _ Treifurj Department in one year than had n
n( j been grinted in another, it would not be j an
, r _ said that the eftablilhments were departed *g' a
t0 from. n 1794 . a million of dollars were (a [ l(
granted for foreign intercourse; but this j nM
" e was no departure from the diplomatic eftat- erb
lifhment. Ib 1786, other sums were grant- t j #n
ed, hut mne of these grants either added to
; a< or diminifted from the power of the Prefi- qu (
(t * dent. Tie only feature in the law of 179p t
which cou'd conflitute any thing like a di- j
aJ plomatic efablifkmer.t, was the fixing of the
j, e salaries, which the present bill did not go
, n _ to alter. I. was the amendment which pro- j an
j eg posed to alt<r the salaries, therefore, if there
18 was aßy depirture from the eftablilhment, it
U_ is in the amendment. j n ]
on ' Mr. Thatcher said, it had not been shewn ; a
,f e to hi» {atisfadion that a less sum was necef- j w j J
e _ fary to te paid to a minister at Berlin or Lif- '
t bon, than at other courts. ' The other *''"'l!~~tt> 1
1 of the mover was, to cut off C f we
Z th<* diplomatic eftah l:fl-ri, 5V t ", thought yer
j! this had no eon..cftion with the amendment.
2 If the gentleman from Virginia was defirot* , da ,
of .fifedintr this, he ought to have brought <
-forwaßTSratftlTTet proposition for the pur-
Brt pose, independent of this bill and then ere*
red T Y 01 ® wou ld have had the objeft before .
them ft ripped of disguise. . . th(
>m A much greater latitude of debate had
[, a | b.en taken than was necessary, if nothing
had been in view ir.oi e than the inrention of i qu
the conftitutian in this refprd. It was al- ,j e
"or- lowed that neither the house of reprefenta- i
lives nor the senate had a right to nominate an
a j. ministers, the patronage would, therefore,
(< . r j be increased, if that house obtained the nQ
, arj controling power contended. That one dc
to pariment 0/ government (hould interfere
teSj with the business of another, was a doc- tr£
trine so well understood, there was no oc
jny cafion to c'ilate upon it.—[Mr. Thatcher
read the d re&ion of the constitution in this
;jj n refped.] He denied that the fameclaufe
ave of the constitution gave the President potv
not er to appoint public ministers and judges,
not Gentlemtn confounded two parts of the H
lem constitution together; the appointment of P*
spy judges depended Upon a previous law, btK m
in a no previous law was necessary for the ap- °*
itry pointment of Ministers. tu
red. But it was said, if this power of appoint- no
0 f ing rrtWTfters Was pofTeffcd by the Prefidcrtr,
ve l. withdßt control, it would swallow up all the a
otW powers of the government; and his- or
mo- tojjft fcias had been adduced to (hew that p {
j; c h oSm nations hadloft theirliberty by the ex- of
ent> ceflive influence of their executives. The v <
any house had been told in what way England t<.
at> and all the European powers, except arte, I' l
tfs . had been deprived of theirliberty. Ex- tl
| ce P l ,n one in^ancf, » this jffertion was con- ci
nec- i tradifled by fadl ; tbe infancehe excepted fe
> ia- waß France. He wished, instead of speak
ing generally, the gentleman from New- t<
the York (Mr. Havens) had placed his finger h
[ f a y upon any one instance, to have supported b
been h' s portion. Mr. T. then took a vrtw of ai
•xcfe 'I I6 manner in which Athens and Rome had n
fallen. The overthrow of the latter, he
ition said, had been aceomplifhed by mobs (some- ft
ork, thing of which h?d been seen in this coun- tl
doc- try) a kind of democratic societies, by de- ri
nade magogues getting the rabble about them, f'
I the and then, getting on the backs of thzfools, fj
[Jov- rod" thr government down. He spoke also t
tain- of the downfall of Greece, and added that t
II the there were things in this country which 0
much resemble the situation of that, and if F
mate a flop was not put to them, we should soon
>ofcd experience a similar fate. Nothing was v
mfti- more easy than to assert that liberty had al- c
ment ways Veen deftro.yed by au excess of power t
have in the executives of governments; but he {
believed it had more frequently been'de- t
met t ftroyed by Democratic Afobs, by the eredion c
rent- of Whifley Poles and Liberty Poles ; and by i
i discontented representatives going home to (
:men their constituents, and setting them against 1
tions the government.
:s of It could not be denied, that the power
only of appointing to office Blight be abused ;
: out but to prevent an abuse of power, tiny
ought not to ;ake away the power itfelf.
mple ] But it was asked whether, if tbe Prelidcat
1
were t» iipßoiofc an. hundredlit
house would be bound. ts>, f /»r
them. . t.n fuchan extreme £afe, it fu-.cd
to be fuppoled that the point mud b* con
ceded, aiul aa iat«rf<o«ence must be bid.
j But he would aflc gentlemen a queflioa, ia
j his turn, when will tire ;I Pre(id<;nt appoint
a hundred miniders, of any number which
the people of the tJnitcd States will slot al
low to be proper ? He would answer thi»
quedion hirnfelf, because he knew they
could not. It would he when the people
at large (hall havejbeen dirred up by mejins
of IVhijhey and Liberty Poles, and havp }>c.
came so intoxicated aud corrupt, at » e'eft
a man for Prefideat like themfe!<
Ihould abuL the power plated in tyrr jjut
tins was too txtraordinary aftate hi
ever to cjsift ia this country.,
But it was said, what ! cannot ;
appropriate, or refufe to apprapris o
(hould fee proper ? Can it not deliberate f
In some cases, he fais, the ho.ufc was>»
more at liberty to refufe to appropriate than
a man was at liberty to commit a criine.
Wherever an office was created by the c»n»
futution, or bylaw, the house was not at
liberty to refufe an adequate compenfatiott
to the persons who filled thufe office*. Trt
certain cases, the house might repeal a law
fixing salaries, or far appointing officflf }
but whilst the law e sifted, these officer* must
be paid. Mr. T illustrated his petition bjf
a nember of indances.
If it was the opinion of the PrefMcflt,
therefore, that it was proper to have minis
ters in every court in Europe, he ought t*
fend them, and the hoWfe could not refufit
to appropriate for their falariet. ft Would
be ufxrpatian to do so
It was only necessary to notiee ooe ffiort
fen{en« of the gentleman from Virginia,
to (hew that if that house had the poWr of
controlling the appointment to office," the
f.TTTtr
it would accommodate any gentleman, he
had no objeftion to making provision for *
| mini Iter plenipotentiary to Spain." Thit
j language was, " You want a minister in
Spain ; if you that the house
take the powor of regulating this bufinefe
into its own hands, 1 will agree to & minist
er being sent there." So that another gen
tleman might a(k for another some where
' else, and so on, which would be granted
~ on certain conditions. Every one must fee
' to what this would lead.
But it had been said, that our public a
* gents were mostly taken from the legislature,
3 and that the drafts from thence had been a
larming. What, he a iked, was the fatt ?
e At London we have had three minifter6,
' two of whom were never in the legislature |
in France fire, one of whom had only bee*
■ ; a legislative character, and he did notcorne
r " ! within the view of • ,,B w ' lo
' mad- - " ■Tnßoy becaafe he was opposed
H ; to the views of the executive ; at the Hague
1 we have had only Mr, Adams, who was lie*
ver in the legislature, and now Mr. Murray,
who,' he believ d, was appointed about three
, days before his time in congress expired,
1 but who had three months before fignifiei
his intention of declining any farther fer
e* vice in coDgrefs ;we have had two rriinitlert
rc ia Spain, neither of whom were takep from
, the legislature ; in Portugal, twa, one of
1 whom had been in the Jegiflaiure j and ont
Kat Berlin, which is Mr. Adams. So thai
| out of fifteen miniders, only four had been
' legislative charafters ; one of whom did not
a * come within the description alluded to, an 4
te another was .appointed within a day or tw»
_ r> of the expiration of hist feryice. He did
not think this a very alarming view ; and
c " he thanked God that thi affertioa had been
rc been made in a place where it could b««enj
c " troverted.
c-
V THURSDAY MARCH I,
us .
,f e Mr. T. Claisoknk, after some apology
ir . fordoing fo,proceeded to read some obferva
■s. tions on the quedion before the committee*
he He firft dated, that considering that the
of present appropriation was demanded,*as a
ltK matter of right -by the executive, to allow
ip. of which would be giving him an uncondi
tional control over the legislature, he could
not consent to it.
Conceiving did that the houff had
a conditutional right to make appropriate
,if. ons, and separated as we were fram Eur?- .
lat pean nations, and having fufficient . fourcet
»x- of happiness within ourselves, he was in fa
'he vour of the present amendment which went
md to curtail our foreign intercourse. He be
ne ]i e ved the less diplomatic intercourse w.e had
lx- the better, and that it was our interest to
on- cultivate peice nnd harmony amongst our-
Led selves, and with all the world,
alt If the doarines now contended for were
w to prevail, there would be no power i« this
rrer house over the purse of the nation ;it would
ted be merely the means of colltfling taxes,
of and could not refufe any appropriation of
la d money which the Executive might call far.
be After examining the constitution, and
Tie- (hewing that this dofirine had no support
un- there he took notice of some lnterrogato
de- ries which had been put by * ffentleman
;m , frem Connefticiit (Mr. Goodrich). What,
o/s, said he, exclaimed that gentleman, have;
ilfo these dijergtlnixers dpne ? Mr. C. in answer
hat to this question, went into an enumeration
ich of the ftrvices which the southern dates had
[ if performed (particularly what the (late of
oon Virginia had done) in the courfr of tile re
was volutionary wtr", in order to procikre' thi»
1 al- oonditution ; and then took notice of what
wer they had done and were dill doing in fup<
he port of it. They submitted he said, to all
de- the regulationt under it, particularly to e&
Hon cife and Jl amp-laws, which were very obno»
Iby ious to republicangovernments, nor did
eto complain of the impod duties, though ther
nnd bore hard upon them. Wh-n an iniurreftJ
on took place Jn the date of Pennfylvanil,
iwer they were the firft to march to quell it.-»-
'ed ; No rebellious person had ever dared to she*
they his headin his dtforgamz.>ngJlate. They h"l
:felf. been much injured in the settlement ot thtir
dent accounts far supplies furnilhed during <nc' war, in fomrcafo Sot sompirt
fated For o»< hundredth'part of ;hi injuries
Vb'ic'h had been doue, and in some not «
, tbcufandth part.
Mr. C; would »flf, ih his turn, what those
, ' frlcndt of order, theXnfteTß States, had done
" infupport of th* Constitution ? They had,
'* h« knew, been the meant of procuring for
tfe country a Britift* Treaty, which was
' likely to involve u» in war, and they were
"now endeavouring to make all the branches
«f government dependent upon the execu
-Ir"tiVe. H* did not thank them for fUth
support.
- As'to whit had been said about addrcfiing
tbs galleries, and the people out of doors,
be believed it was perfeftly right that the
people ftrohhi be well informed of what they,
their representatives, were doing, except
tbey were to be lookedupon as a ftnfelejs
* herd, of whom it was not necessary to take
iny notice. He wished there were no mo
-1 rives in the house left pure than these. For
* his part,' be refpeSed the fovefeighty of the
people, and wilhtd to remain no longer in
_ tbat house than whilst he spoke their sense.
The gentleman from Connecticut had spo
ken in high terms, of the late President.
He hid hipfelf an high opinion of that
gentleman, and so had his constituents. It
waSt-ue, they disapproved ».f some things
' that he had done, and were sorry that he
V hid do»e"tHeUS. As to the gentleman who
now fills the presidential «hair, be viewed
" him as a great arid good man ; but he be
' lieved all men to be fallible. When he did
things which ought, in his opinion, to be
; approved, he fn6uld approve them ; and
when he aft<d c'ontrarily, he ihonld con
demn them. He believed that, in his state
there were neither prejudices agai aft, nor
in favour, of either the late or the present
President.
Bat the gentleman frpm Connefticct, to
•nnrui ne ii3<r ainjßcu, TKjs
was a pleating word ; but it appeared to
him as if some gentlemen wished rather to
(hake the union to its centre. His own
mind, however, acquitted him of any thing
that Ivad net ia view the good of the people.
He wished to preserve the harmony of the
union ; he would hazard every thing to
preserve it—because he believed " that h
•, sited we (land, but divided we fall."
If gentlemen would withhold their ill
natured sarcasms, members might unite to
do the business of the union for which they
were sent. He adtrtonifhed them to talk no
more of faclkus diforganizert, ft tile minori
ties, democratic clubs, &c. if they wished
for union and concord—but that they did
•wish this, with him was doubtful. If they
do not, however, said he, let them speak
•ut, and then they will be underllood.
Such charges,every one knew were unfound
ed, and being so, tbeyjcould not be expect
ed to y.« with temper. No rebellious
kead had ever Been p o
towmac. If a rebellious rascal was to n t .
pear there, he would not be fuffered to live.
He knew this to be the cafe in the quarter
he had mentioned, and he believed the fame
rtight be said of the ftatet of Maryland and
Delaware ; and though the people of the
soUthern states bad' been loaded with all the
foul epithets which could be imagined, he
believed they would be found the props of
the constitution. For his own part, he
would facrifice his life to preserve it.
, ( Debate to be continued.)
THWRSDAr—— MARCH 8.
The bill to continue in force for a limi
ted timean aft declaring the c«Jnfent of Ccn- J
grefs to the aft of Maryland, appointing a I
Health-Officer, was read the third time and
I
Mr. D. Foster, from the committee tff 1
claims, made an unfavorable report on the I
petition of Frederick W. Eldridge, who I
fought compensation for the services of his I
father as a soldier, which was Concurred
ID. I
Mr. Elmend'orf presented the petition of |
Will iatri Thome, praying compensation for I
supplies furnifhed during the war.—-Refer- I
red to the committee of claims. I* I
Mr. Milledge presented a petition from I
the Commissioners of Pilotage of Georgia, I
dating that great murmurs and complaints I
are made by the matters of veflels, on ac- I
count ot the want ©f a Beacon and Buoys I
at the entrance of the Savannah river, and I
praying that luchßeacon and Buoys may be I
erefted.—Referred to ths committee of I
commerce and manufactures.
Mr. Matthews obtained leave of absence I
for ten days. I,
Mr. Dennis moved that the committee of 11
* the whole to whom was referred the bill to 1i
alter the manner of making entries of Still? I
be discharged from a further confederation I <
oftheftibjeft, and that the following Refo- Jl
lution be referred to the committee of ways I i
and means. I j
'5 Resolved, that the committee of ways I |
and means be inftrufted to report a bill al- I 1
tering the time of entering Stills from the I
nionth of June to the months of August and I
oeptemher." It
Mr. D. said his reasons for making this I 1
motion were these. He found the Secreta- (
f? of the Treasury had objeftions to the do- e
irig away the annual entry of Stills, as he | e
looked upon this regulation as eflential to r
the security of the colleftion of the revenue, I d
and to a due control of Colleftors. Mr. D. (
found the committee of ways and means had IP
differed in opinion from the Secretary of the
Treasury, and had reported a bill, which P
had been found to contain proviiions more I f<
• objtftionable than the annual entry. As C(
h« believed it would be impoflible to do a- 0
V.-3J the annual entry, he wished to make t(
such alterations in it, as should make itlefc d
objefticnabie. He believed this would be t!
tffefted by altering the time of making the
entry in the mariner proposed bytherefolu- c:
tion which he had offered to the house, as 31
in those months distillers had occasion to jpi
take cut their licences, and they could make I m
V. £ !tr y required at the fame time.
M-h Mpccfn whrther.it Axuid Ids
Sot be mare agreeable to the usual manner I t!i
I- iff proceed wig, to re-commif the bill to the
s -;ortitr,iuee of ways rtnd means, with an in
* 'ftruciioi t.> :• way proposed.,
Mr. Hirp d the motion to com*
* mit the fcil-; b«su : i. i<e was convinced that
ie no plan for :b ing the annual entry
I, could be adopted, without introducing re
ir gulatious which would be more inconveni
is ent than the eatry itfelf. He thought it
e would be proper, therefore, to enquire whe
■s ther a different period might not be adopted
i- which would be more convenient to diftil
h lers for making the entry, as the Secretary
of the Treasury was of*opinion that a differ
g ent time for every different diftiifl in the
s, United States was fixed upon, if it should
ie be found more aoconj-iiodating to individu
al als, would not be d with any mate
»t rial inconvenience in thtcoHeQion of the du-
A tr
ie Mr. Dennishadno ebje&ioa to this course
o- be'ng taken,and the bill was re-committed to
>r the committee of ways and means, with i»-
ie ftruftions generally to report a new bill,
in On motion of Mr, the house
e. resolved itfelf into a committee of the whole
0- on the report of the Celeft committee on the
- rmendments of Senate to the bill for
at the relief of the Refugees from Canada and
It Nova-Scotia, and the report ha,ring been
agreed to, the committee rose, and the bill
lie was re-committed to a feleft committee.
io Mr. Crailc, from the committee to whom
fd was referred the message of the President of
e- the United Stites, inclosing the memorial of
id the Commiffioters appointed under the aft
be for establishing the temporary and perman
)d ent feat of government of the United States
n- representing tht situation of the city of
te Washington, an! requesting regiflative af
or fiftance, a resolution for the adop
nt tion of the house, appropriating 200,000
dollars foi the completion of the buildings
to r.ow carrying on in the city of Washington,
lis provided that not more than one-third there
to of be expendrd in any one year.—Referred
[o to 3 committee ef the whale on Monday.
•R The house severally resolved itfelf into
ig committee of the whole, on the following
e. bills .
ie _ The bill declaring the assent s>f Congress
:o to an aft of the State of Mafchufetts, for
1- keeping in repair a pier in Krnnebunk re
ver ;
1- The bill limiting the time withjn which
o claim; against the United Stites for credits
y on their books shall be made ; and
0 The bill for relief of Sylvaius Crowell,
1 All which bills were agreed to in cora
d mittee of the whole, and in the house, with
d out debate, and were orderrd to be engroff
y ed for a third reading ta-marrow.
c On motion of Mr. Livingston, the hotife
1. resolved itfelf into a committee of the whole
on the bill for the relief of Cck and disabled
:- seamen ; when, after some conversation on
s thefubjeft of the Marine Hospital, propo
- fed to be aftablifhed by this bill, as to the
-ft-manner of securing a support of it from
tew oie v j f a ;j ors c f t ], e United
rotates, a propofit.on „ as adopted) and eliac .
j tlH #' " every owner or master of a
d vessel amv.ng f rom a fprejgn
e port or tht' Uniteii- Staits, inau Detore.t»»«_
e vessel is permitted tobe entered,pay centi
e per monlTi during their voyage,for every man
f whom he has 0.-1 bpard h.'s veflel, which he
e (haU be authorized to retain out of their
wages " The committee then rose, and the
bill was re-committed to the feleft commit
tee, to make it conformable to this princi
ple.
Mr. Sewall, from thecommittee to whom
- was referred so much of the President's
a Speech, as relates to the jroteftion «f our
1 commerce and the defencr of our country
and also the message of the President of
f Monday last, reported in ptn as follows :
: " That, considering the increasing dan
) gers which threaten the peice and security
; of the United States, and to which their :
1 extensive feaceaft, and their lomeftic as well
as foreign commerce, are alamiingly exposed j
F the necessary provisions of < maritime de- :
- fence ought to receive the eaneft and immt- j
diate attention of Congress ; ind especially j
recommend a concurrence, without delay, in '
1 the resolutions now before the House of :
Representatives, reported t» them on the
12th of January last.*
" The committee further raport, that a
eonfiderable sum remains unexpended of the
sums heretofore appropriated for fortifying
the ports and harbours of the United States
as appears by the ftatcment frorathe.Depart
mcnt of War exhibited herewith, and that,
in the opinion of the committee, a further
appropriation, and a more vigourous regard !
to this important objeft has become imme
diately necefary.f 1
" They farther report, that in the view, 1
which on ftveral occafians, this committee '
have taken of the . fnbjeft of providing a '
naval armanent, they have not failed to ob- 1
serve, that appropriations enormously ex- !
pensive, and unaccountable delavs. which 1
have attended every attempt of this kind, j
Thtfe resolutions proposed appropria- '
tions for completing and equipping fo r sea, '
the frigates United States, Constitution and !
Constellation, and for the pay and subsist- '
ence of the crews, and for the wear, losses, 1
expenditures of ammunition and other cur- f
rent and contingent expences of the naval [
armament ; also to authorise the President
to purcfiafe, whenever, in his opinion the
public service shall- require it, not exceeding
velFrls, fintaHe' to be as
public armed veffeli for the defence of our
sea coasts, and to cause them to be arnicd,
equipped and employed, in like manner and
on the fame terms of pay, &c. as are direc- r
j ted for the nav*! armament, and thit 11
dollars be appropriated for the expence S
thereof; and also that the President be au- (
thcrifed to establish a foundry for cafling !i
cannoiffor the uL- of the United States, °
and that dollars be apprwpriatrd for /
purchafuig the necessary buildings, imp] e - ; h
ments, See. for fucb eftablifliment. I ]>
I Ihe amount of the balance tmexpen- ' ■'
ded, according to the ftatemmt annexed to j "
this report, is 97,683 dollars.
fie It Kas appeared to that a betUr eco
n- nomy might be introduced inn this branch
of the public expenditure, by eftablilhing i»
n- the War Department some officer who (hall
at beemployed intheiaimediatefuperintendance
ry of the naval of the United States,
e- " The department of war, as at present
ii- eftablifiied, is urtfuitahle to this purpof;,
it especially considering its (lationary situation,
e- and how much it is occupied by 'numerous
:d i cases ot a nature very difierent.
il- "On these fuhje<3«, they recnmmei'.d the
ry I following refoltitions to be adopted, viz.
r- " Reiolved that the sum of in ad
le ditisn to the sum of remaining unex
ld pendedof former ajipropriatioßS, be appro
u- priated to fortify the ports and "harbors of
e- the United States. > ■ <a . . .
u- " Refolrcd, that there -Her eftpfeWhcd in
the department of war, of
fe marine, who (hall have chargr nf the con
to ftru&ion, etpiipment and f-tppnrt cf the
•J- public vcfTels of the United Startea, and all
other matters relating to their naval'concerns,
fe which (hall be entrusted to him according to
le law.
Ie This report having been read, a motion
or was made to refer it to the fame committee
id ef the whole to whom has been referred a
'n former report on this fubjeft.
ill Mr. Harper believed it would be most
proper to refer all these fubje£ts to the com«
m mitte of the whole on the (late of the u
af nion, as this xvas a committee which had
of always a preference to all others. He there
£t fore moved to discharge the committee of
n- the whole who had heretofore had this hu
es Qnefs under confederation, in order to refer
if the whole to a commiitee of the whole on
f- theftateof s he union.
J- Agreed and referred accordingly.
0 Adjourned.
JS ■.JL'U-JL'l™."; ,
:: Xfie (Bmttc. >
p ff/r.A d:*l PHjj,
g PRIDAY EVENING, Mjrch g.
fj At a moment when a foreigrf'enemy is
)r planting a dagger iir the vitals of our inde
pendence and striking at the exiltence of e
very farmer, mechanic and merchant of the
h United States, a wretched feribbler of the
ts tory race is attempting, in the Aurora, to
lullaby the peop'e, by faying, that because
John Bull hath kicked ui—we ought to of
j. fer our throats to the guillotifaof France.
£ MR. FENNO,
A faithlefs republic mult perifli, it car-
p e l ies the feeds of death in its own bofem.—•
[ e Thunder without lightening, kills no man ;
d a nation may make a loud noise about free
in dom and the rights of men, but a faithlefs
3. government is forever a defpotiim : It is
le mockery to call it fret—and an absurdity
u ? 00 gross for all men but Jacobiet who can
f"'allow crews as lig as whales. If the
French Republis could.endure, it would give
a all history the He—but. it canmt endure—it
is now struggling like a man in a high fever
it li?* "'"lent f oon
t§ exhaufted—anJlTeafTn'ollows. So it Mir
Q he with the present tyrants who govern
e France. foresight.
• r N. B. Now is the time for the democrats
e •' (who have too long worn the old shoes of
j the former tories) to face to the right about,
•_ j and atone for eneiuraging by man
j fully opposing them. The American cha
n | rafler is generous, as well as brave, and if
s they turn quick, peradventure repentance may
r retlore them to the bosom of a magnanimous
country.
Fir the Gazette of the United States. '
MR. £ENNO,
r The partizans of France have been busy
r 1 days pad in reviewing the condtift of
1 Great-Britain towards her, in orderto jtifti
[ j 0 the late orders of the French govern
i ment, for the capture of all Britiili produce
I or manufa&ures in neutral vessels, let who
. | would be the owners of the property I
| I think you will fee much more of their fine
■ ! spun reafoaing on the fame fubit d, for it
, mwfl take volumes to decetve the American
people as to the real objedt of the order—l
fay the real obje<ft «f the or<Jer, for their
, ostensible objed is to injure the manufafti.res
of Great Britain, but their real objeft is
to cloath and maintain their armies out of
neotral powers. France knows that neu
tral nations will have the mannfa&ures of
Great Britain, and that (he herfelf cannot
cloath her armies without them. She has
lately been obliged to.pafs-a law, admitting
a certain quantity of British manufa£tures
to be purchased to cloath her armies. But
she is na longer able to pay for them, and
therefore will take thtm wherever (lie can
find them, i-.1l the effeft the late law can
poflibiy have, ur/H ( 1e th-at neutral nations
111 Head of paying f or their own supplies
barely, will now have to add to the amount
the supplies foi France. It cannot mate
rially injure Great Britain. If it could, the
friends of France might' have some apolo
gy, for approbating the measure. It is a
iyftcm of warfare upon neutral nations;
unattended with th<- fiimfey palliation of
lome such fyfiems, that thereby their ene- j
mics are materially injured.
An American. ,
, rcj..—* 3.(|i ,
From the Farmer's Weekly Museum. \
. i' . if ■ r.-T' l ! ]
At a nigb'y refpfcMabJe Literary Cluh in Enr
" lhe V'rtuei and al'chifcv^afletit'sfihe probity '
Jnd intrepid,ry of Washingf(>N were the sub- 1
jtel o) CMyerfatidM After a lengtbv, and me- 1
r ' eologiiim of our I,ite Prf fidenr, a eentle- '
man j/ked the Hon.Ktimund 3u» Kt, who hid 1
graec d the eult.gium of Walhington with his pe- 1
j, a ? "het.'.er., in justly edimating ,
<harj(Sltr of WafiimgtOß, some allowance
ou.M.t not t<> be made for the enefcy of the pa- '
- 1
/-// rhirc ever rxiftcd f ( > a as *
e lud co»!rH-iiWd to define. I forgive vou re- i
1' ed l.dmnnd Buvke, (en I n.yfel? never he
lev^df at a nian of the exalted dignity and
imrepu'i: v of Geortre V. adiinjrtonconVl poffibiy
e* l '" ,f ntil 1 personally with Johw I
ADAm.%
~ r tj-r ' H • ' «
0-J On! Pnit aUelphia !
•h ' Had ft thou like thy name, which
in fignifies a living brotherhood, thou would!!
ill have become au eternal excellency, the joy
:e of many generations ; but now _{liy language
s. is profane, thy ways intolerable, and thy
it tender rtjercies cruelties. But irjthou wilt
;, repent, thou lhalt yet become afrrtemal ex
i, cellencyi and a diadem of glory among the
is nations. Otherwise, &c.
Again, hadlt thou fulfilled the proniifes,
le resolves, covenants and engagements parted,
made and given forth'unto the natiens, at
1- the divii «n of the Englioi nation, thy ru
[- lerg and teachers would have been, like the
>- of the firmament and thy govern
if . merit a. the glory of the fun ; but now an
evil spirit h»th deceived them and thy goA
n errraer.ts and ciimiU' c? ar£ wheels, pilloriei,
if gaitawfes and rttSrtfts 'Ofd«»ption' ''in3
i- deftiu£lion, and thy confidences gfttt moun
e ! tain* cf damnation, and thy intercourses
11 ! and treaties with foreign qatiops ars open
i, floodgates for the inundation of corruption,
0 bloodshed, war and ruin : Nevertheless, if
they wiil repeut and thou wilt obey, and
n take up the prumifes, refolvfs, covenants
e and engagements recorded in fermona, law
a books and pamphlets, and published to the
world, at arid since the division of the.nati
(t on, all grievances will he i-tdreffed, all evils
>». remedied, all breaches healed, nil reproach
i- and infamy taken away, and God will draw
d a wall of fire round abolit thee rfgainft all
•- thy enemies : Othet wife '.lie aforefaid fer
>f mons, promises, resolves, -covenants and
- engagements will be handed down to po.lte
r rity in annals of infamy, and they w ill re
n main eternal monuments of thy perfidy.
i N. B. This memorial admonition and
I warning will be turned to the Jews in Phi
ladelphia with seven-sold force and energy,
? if thty regard not the admonitions, rcmon
j llrances and molt benevolent invitation to
; repentance and a rtSrifideration of their pro
~ ] mifed rdlitution in their own land.—March
6 an.d 7. DANIEL JUSTJCE.
March 8, 1798. ■
- MR. FKNNO,
s If yon will give the annexed a place In your
paper, you will pkafe many of your readers,
and oblige a subscriber.
e An Israelite <vho cbanc'd to pop
His bead into a barber's (hop,
f Beg'd to be fhav'd, it soon was done,
5 When (trap ( mclin'd ofttimts to fun)
e the price he a(k'd of men,
Instead of live pence charg'd him ten;
The demo' said " you Tyre muit grant,
" Vour prict is molt exorbitant,"
Not so (quoth itrap) I'm right & you are wr#ng,
Since lfrael's out your (ace it twice as long.
• GAZETI E MARINE LIS?.
] PORT OP PHILADELPHIA.
1 ~—
r ARRITEfi, DATS.
1 British brig Jason, Arnout, Port a« Prince 1 r
. Ailive, Elliot, do. 21
| Sloop Defiance, Lord, New-Ycrk 4
Defiance, Lord, New-York 4
L'Efpoir, ■ 1 ,'Pqrt au Prince Ja
' CLEARED
lijabctli. Wl.'.tt, N. Carolina
I Schooner Two Brothers, Chadwick, do.
The following is a lifl of the American vejels
. recently captured and carried into St. John's
Porto-Rico, receive// by the brig Maria,
that arrivedyejlerday from that port.
Ship President, Smith Baltimore, from
■ Liverpool, veflel and cargo condemned;
(loop Port Packet, Davis, Georgetown,
bound to St. Bartholomews, vtfiU and car
go condemned; (hip Jane; Barron, Norfolk,
from Liverpool, Tcffel and cargo condemn
ed ; hi ig Fox, Dixon, Charleilon, bound
to St. Martins, velfel and cargo condemned;
brig Mary, of Salem, from Norfolk (r, Ja
maica; under trial; brig M.ria, of New
\ ork, from Gibraltar to New-Vork, under
trial; (loop Lilly, of Newport, bound to
Jamaica, abandoned; schooner Telegraph,
Baltimore, from Havanna, to St. Thomas,
under trial; (hip New-J t rfey, Clay, from'
Lanton to Philadelphia, under trial; :he
kng Rebecca, belonging to New-Vork,
that is a solitary instance of a vessel and car
go being acquitted, lies there at the mercy
of the Captors, the captaia and crew hav
ing returned to America.
The situation of the unfortunate Ameri
cans that are carried into Porto-Rico de
mands attention. From an unaccountable
policy of the Spanilh government of the Isl
and, all neutrals or strangers are prohibited
from entering the City, until special per
mifiion is obtained from the Governor.
The Privateerfmen avail themselves of this
circumstance to detain the captains on board
and prevent their having intercourse with a
»y person that might give them ufeful infor
mation, until they effed fending their pa
pers down -to St. Domingo where the court
of Admirality'iVeftaWifhed, and when the
condemnations are revived, the captains
and what part of the crew may be on board
are turned on fliore, without the means of
lubfiuing and are liable from the aforefaid
policy of the Spauilh Government to be
imprisoned, and what adds to the unfortu
nate predicaments, opportunities for the
people to return to America occur but rare-,
ly, as all neutral vcfTels, except under par
ticular circumstances are prohibiting from
entering the port. ,
The brig Maria and a schooner Maria, I
that faded from Port* RiWthc fame day,
have afforded >n opportunity £br "those ;o
: come away that had received their condem
! nations ; but in a short time there will be I
many other Americans tlu re, as the great- I
elt proportion of the crews of the v;Fels '
lately captured were on board the privateers ;
that were fiill on their cruize, and (hould
the (hip New-Jerfcy bj unfortunately con
demned, her crew will add considerably to : 1
the number, and it i, to be apprehended f '
they wnl meet with great difficulty in find- ' ,
ing means to icturn to their country.
February i;. ;
fN *RIS). M
Snip S:tr!inf.ir<-rnvsi,.p ; Liibu"
Brig Eiiaa, Stge, f. r , I hemas't
Maria, Jeficry, C <pt Niehoia Mo!-J
h 2v lir.T« o Sifteri, :op nap, Jamaica
Chloe-.Aw, Fitzour;;h,do- «irj ».
Mary, Anfipru* ,
' # William, Nicholfon, 9r. rhc'rnss'*J
John, Vattrey, Cape Nicholi \fo!e /
Y SI >Ap S*ily, Srpii', tiavannah.
t Saturday last arrived Itere the fhipStiH
- ling, capt. Kerinpton', 39 days fro:n Lifborl
e - Capt. K. pofitivelv a/fcrts, lliijt the trra
ty of peace between France and Portugal
, was not ratified by the latter, owing to
, the fear of bringing on themselves theven
t geance of England—That admiral Janris
- (Earl St. Vincent) had failed from Li£»on
f to relieve the fleet under admiral Ord, in the
- blockade of Cadie—and that numbers of
1 French pri*ateer« were brought tti by the
■ English cruisers.
, Ainer cjh vcflcldeft ft Lifln'n wheo captain K.
1 _ faiira:
. Ship Miry, Pacifield, Boflon, to
I Inil f>r Norfolk.in* davor uv<>. ;
I Ship Lvdia, All n. of Hofion. just
1 1 Siiip Cha lottr, Tyler of Providence, S. I.
» t"'ame day arrived the fchr. U'illijm, captain
f i Nicbolfon, if days from S'/Thoma* —' k■ « »
i hoynd to New Ys-lt, but put in here in di£refi
' AL 11 f ?ORE, March
: An Algeri:,e b'k ;irri»tfd at thla port
yefleiday, «ifter a piffa;jfe of 85 divs, having
s tdUciicd at Cadiz, a.:d afterwards thoitgh
ftr.-fs of we.vh.-r, put into Port ) Rico,t»
' refit. She is corrin3nd. 1 and nayiga ed we #
' Uf.deriland, emir ]y by A'geri'nes •'the f.tlt
" expedition (the kind, we bt! : ever
tnade to our Write;-, 1 World. Our manner*
and cultoms mutt appear 110 left novel ta
them, than their »;))>(; Hrjrice does to us.
From the reception meet with, it i*
hoped they will carry baefc ro their native
country a very favorable impression of ih«
' American character. •
St. JOHN's, (Amigu,;) January 23.
1 ; A furious quarrel, we underttaud, lately
took place between fjmf American gentle
men and Frenchmen, in St. Bartholomew*?,
in consequence of an American v< hav
ing been takeri from under the fort ih?re, by
■ a French privateer, and that four of the lat
> ter were killed.
On Saturday the 13th i'nfl. at
English 'Harbour, Charles Peteifon, Efq,
fir ft lieutenant of bis Mtjefty',? ship Perdrix.
We did not notice the death of this gentle
men in our lad papers, from a wish to pro
cure the best information in oarpowercjf the
real cause of this event, which was' occafi
' oned by an unfortunate dispute between
the deceased and Lord Camelford, upon the
right of commanding at English Harbour.
Lord' Camelford, as w,e are informed,
commanded his majefty'* sloop of war, thit
Favourite, by virtue of an order or warrant
from admiral Harvey, and Mr. Peterfon,
although an older lieutenant than lord Ca
melford, had lately served on board that
ship under his command : but having, been
removed t* the Perdrix, and lord Camel
ford not haring a com miflion as master and
commander, being then at English harbour,
supposed himfelf to be the commanding of.
ficc ' 5 atW under that idea, ifTued some or
ders to lard Camelford, which were an
fwcred by other ordert from lord Camelford
to Mr. P. terfon.
Upon Mr Peterfon'srcfufal to obey thefc
orders, a lieutenant with a party of msrines
were sent to put him arrest, and Mr. Peter
fon prepared f, r refinance, ordering the
crew of the Perdrix to am in hi* defence,
but before uiy conflidt rook place, lord Ca
melford arrived, went up to Mr Pettrfon
demiiuVd if lit woulj obey his orders or
not, and upon helng arifwered in
tinc, immediately fliot him dead upon the
spot.
An inquetl was taken by the coroner on
the next day ; but the juiy not being wil
ling.to take upon theißfelves the determina
tion of the quetion upon wjiom the Com
mands English harbour haddeyolved,found
only that the deceased had been (hot by Jord
Camelford, in coniequepee of a mutiny.
It is much to be lamented that the right '
of commanding in the marine service, Ihould
not have been as well afcettained, nor at
least as generally known, as it is in the ar
my. If Lord Camelford was really the
commanding officer, his conduit, we un
derhand, is juftifiable in point of law ; but
if the command during the absence of anr
po„ captain, or.master and commander, had
devolved upon Mr. Pfterfoit, lord Camel
ford will of conrfe he liable to be tried for
the crime |of mntiny, by a court-martial,
where the privilege of his peerage cannot
\ va,i J ! 11 ™ 5 and there c,n no doubt but
that ftrjdt jultiee will be done.
NEW-THEATRti.
TO -MORR° w EVENING. Marcho, "
Will he preftnhsd tl.a TuGinr of
The ORPHAN.
pf" 1 ' 10 ' Mr. Wipnell
ehamont, Mr Mrrrtijll
(bring hi. fir? appear ,rcc fu th,t cUratfer.)
W1 h the m ' p-ra 0 f
The SHr^VVRKCK;.
Tkurf <!y Hur.h 8
Mr. Bat£s refpedtfullv in'orms
h.s friends and the puttie in s «. n eral, tb-.t his p cr .
formaner of." ,h e IVcU a, it G,« " advertised sos
h-. evening * reprefcittario. , j» unavoidably poll.
SATURDAY Evening, March 10,
On Tuciclay, the 10th dav of
* X i n <V 7 °' c " lork in the even ng, at
Sl'j'iladelit,"' StGOnd S ' reet> the Cit r
W ILL J' 1 exp,,r?,i tn ruhlif fate, feveti(e« n
V i,»a, or parcels of lard situated i„ p oiot
town lip .; thee ur.ty.nf -thumberland. and
ccntaunnp in the u-tml.- fix rh ufand f. ven h un .
drcd a IK. fix tv-four acres .-nd three quarters,
vvjfn tlie us- a I allcwar ce for tfoadfi. *
Terms of fa e. , t! ie pnrchafe money o™
execn,:on „f the ci.ed, . , in tbree month.,
m good ~c!es or oth «
CONi, T ELLY & Co. yfuff.
Mar<h 9 Uwtia dticaO* JUST RECEIVED,
AM fOR SALE, \T
W. Young's Book-ftofe^
Comer of Chrfnot and Second ftrc«ts,
( Prm 50 Cents)
Caifes qui fe font oppofecs arax
froi;rci du commerce, entre LA FRANCEeI Us
V. • ATS-UNI3 de V
Avee 1m Moyenn de l'acc6l£rer ;
Et la comparaifon de la Dette Nationale
de I'Angleterre, de la France, and des
ETATS-UNIS.
tu (is Lettrei, addrefftes a MoiiCeurlc Mar
quis de la FayITTI* Traduit fur le M«-
nulcrit Anglai* du Colonel SWAN, ancien
Ms tnbre de la Legislature dc la Ripubliqnc
du MaiTathufleS.
Le Cornm.rc* eft la portion U plu- imporunte des
(Richefles Natioaales.
—— LeTrid ent de Ncptnne, tft le sceptre du M onde.
tIHIII I.
Or caufcs that have been opposed to the
of COMMERCE botween
FRANCWani 0* UNITF.D STATU J AMERICA.
With the meant of accelerating it;
And a companion of the National Debts
of England, Frenee, and Amarica.
In Six letters, directed to the Marquis
Bt LA FAYITTI.
Translated (into French from the original Eng
kifh MaimfcriVt of Col. Swam, formcfly aMem
ttr of the Legislature of Maflachufetts.
Commerce i« the most ipiportaat portion of the
Wealth of Nation#.
•The indent of Neptune i»the Sceptre of
the world. ' Laniaaa.
AT a junfkire when the question of
a Commercial Truly ■mill' France may soon
become an thjtft of discussion, arworkof this kind
becomes extremely uiefut to those eitixens of the
United States, who may be defiroos to enablethem
fclves to view this fubje<9, under its various af
pedls ; and they will have the fatisfa&ion to be
forntfhed with the necessary data, to judge of the
■iefulnefsof this tranfa&ion.
I hi* work is principally distinguished by the
cichncfrof the observations, the pcrfpisuity of th#
iJcas, and the modesty of the theory which it
contains. At Vars, a man of wit obfsrved, that
this work was like a rich farmer's barn, heaped up
to the very roof with ufelul prodnee. It is addref
fed to the unfortunate La FayxttC, in letters,
which fugitive so n, tho author who could only
devote a few works to this occupation, was obliged
Co adopt. Althonjh cirtumtlanc-is ate in many
refpeds different at die present day, from what
ihtjt were in the year 1790, when these letters
were"written, yet it may be justly fcid.that so ma
nj *bf«lute and permanent data still remain, that
the judicious reader will not appreciate the work
Ids on that account j on the contrary, as many of
the alterations, which have been made, are the rt
fult of the author's remarks, it will serve to con
vince him that in all tranfacliotis, between free
nations, every thing may be expefled from the ef
fortsof truth acdjuftice.
LETTER I.
General view of the obstacles,"created in France,
to pi event the extension of commerce, with the
Unired Stat, s—Obfervations made in a tour, taken
for that express purpose, uponfonte French manu
fa&uics (a precious fragment this). Examination
and icfutation of the prejudices exifling in France,
agaiult the quality of certain prodnitions of the
United States, and against the advantages of their
importation— Demonflratjon of the bad policy of
laying duties on their importation, principally on
provifioiis in general, and on fait proviiions, and
6lh in pa ticular—Confidcrationi en the regulations
of the French cufiom-houfes.
LtrrEß n.
ObfWclcs to the cxtenGon of trade with France,
proceeding from circumstances and individuals m
the United States —Proofs tha: these obstacles are
only temporary and will be removed (they have
been removed) by time and the wifdomof govern
ment HilWy of the influence of the American
papfr money—lmportaiit jrinciplfts and abftraS
eonfideiations on money and circulation—Causes
of the (lagnaion of American trade, after the
peace—Critical examination of French y,oods, im
ported into America, and extraordinary conduct
of the French merchants—Effefls of good com
mercial laws; and patriotic withes on this fubje.it—
Observations on money, weights and meafares.
LETTER 111.
Effayin the form <fa tailed, to appraifc the im
poitations into the United Mates/wm Fnnce and hng.
land anted. The author examines at each article,
wtiethei it can be better turnifbed from France or
England—lt it principally on this fabjefl (which
would have alVonilhrd 1 meie theoriftj that the author
appears tn ev'moe great commercial experience. These
kin 1 ot tMeau*, uu'utkily aa difficult to obtain as
they aie much to be defiled, are the only lure guides
the flatcfroin can take for th policy of treaties, de
prived of which he is continOslly deceiving or decei
ved. We#»nr.oitoo much admire the apparent ex«
«cfnefs of coloi«l Swan's cslcuUtionj 1 ana although
the propbifies of Lord Shcfield b»ve already been
con>radi£lea bv experience, and by several able pent,
yrt it is curious to lee the author of the prelent wcrk,
difpuie with bim the only grout d on which he has
not been hitherto attacked, by proving that France,
under the lequi'ed condition, will be better able
than Great Britain to lupply us with several articles,
which the Engliftiauihoi allots exclusively and forev
er to the latter; the author's patriality tjfett cm (if he
has an>) does not appear to have at any time created
a partiality as yidprint. The result of this calculation
is that in 1:09, that is to lay, ata period when arts
and manufactures did »ot present in France the vast
Okkis and probabi i y of extension which they now
pod .t. that even in 1789, it was presumable, th«t
France would not only have the means 10 supply one
Half of any given quantity of tbe produflions of Frame
end r upland united, butalfoto enter into competition
with Great Britain Cor the remainder, in proportion
to the wildom of bcr government, and tlte industry
Of her inhabitants
LETTER IV.
Calculation of the exportation of the United States,
and particular examination of their fuitablenelt to
France ; this is oae reason why, notwithftandtng the
excelh nt work nf Mr. 'lench Coxe, Mr. Swan's la
iltav is by >0 means fupeifluous . the principle of the
advantages which would result to France from the
importation r f provisions and raw materials, is every
where applied ; »nd it is upon this argument, that
the author .-ftabliihes his demands to the French go
vernmeni, for the limited admission of the produc
»ionaol his country into France
LETTER V.
Tableau, of the debt o* the United States at that
time—Opinions of the author on the finances, on the
effcftl of national debt, on circulation, &c. as more
amply detailed in his National Arithmetic printed at
Bolfon in the-year 1786 ; the whole calculated to
ftrength.nin Kranee, the nuKi c and private credit
of the United Stafcs—the happy conditio^ of Ameri.
ca, and the miferie, arifingfrom tf>e public debt in
Europe, arecont'afted in the ableil manner, and un
der the most ttriking itla.ianj, by very cuiioot cal
culaiiom—Obfervations on the wisdom and economy
which preside over the public expenses in Maflachu
fctts. In this plsce ihe (Striotifm of the author ap
pears, with all the elevation whichajuft national
prtde lnlpirea. Theancient government, of Europe,
lays he, will learn fiom us the art of economy in
recompensing thefeivices which the country receives:
Anmgjl ui n Kill i'/«". dut men are chojtx fir placet,
end not placesJer men. This leucr conclude with a
general view of the publie properly, depobtod in tbe
bands of the govcr ment of the Uuitcd States.
UTTER VI.
General exsmination of the defefis of the enmmer.
cisl policy of France with refpefl to the United Slates ;
many ot these observations have produced tbe effefts
for which they were" intended, others fliU remain,
pointing out the refoimt to be made in future, at •
(uud oldti auiks the fticsls and locks. Tbe xuthcr
•oncludet hia 'work, by fixing aMen ion on bis
country, and -be great men wbo have rendered it il- .
luftrious: and * e take » plealure in quoting what he
fays of the otefent chief ot Wr government. To
prsife a man Wlien he cercifes a dillingutfhed em
t ployment. is common, aod may be taken for flattery (
[ but whilst he laan private hfs, it ii the homage ot
an " my " £|p,ge S ,«oftbework, ,
• Les des Ei.ts-ums, futvant dans leur
choix le bsen ftsblic, it excites par on principe de
reconnoiHsbCe, choififent M. John Adam, pour vice
prefident du aouve.u emigre*. Ses efforts, pour pre
ierver U peuple des inu.gues formees par le gouv
fruement Anglais contre fa liberie, le rend.reot t.es
fofpeff a ceux q>ii etoient en pouvotr Le peuple,
eonvaincu de son ivritc, le ehoif,t P~" un de . feS
reprelentans dans le premier congres. De ce nombr.
etoit aul2a M. tunuel Adams, patriote auffi intrepide,
qa'infitigable La revolution Atoericaine doit beau
coup a la perleveranee de fes travaux, Sc a festaleni
diftinges. Ceux que M. John Adams a developpes
dins le oaite de paix, qui s'etl fait a Paris en 1703,
ont prouve qu'il etoit miniftre auflt habile que grand
politique, ti dans foo ouvrage sue la defenfe ce la
ennftitution Americaine, il a mnntae toutes lescan
noiffances qui. iorme -t les vr. . junfeonfultes & les
hommesde loi; connoiffances necetlsires, pourrem
phr honorablement Iqs fonfhona de president du fenst
des Etats-unis. , _ _ _______
mrti c e.
A Manufaßtry of ycHvw and itlft ware.
Such ai BCTff was in thii Country bdofCj has |'eco
been Utelv ercAcd at TiTolii Red Landing,
on (he taft Bank of Hydfaa't River, ila:e of New.
Yofk, where any article of various (oru ahd fr.apcs
may be executed, as well as earihein stoves upon a
oew conftruftion, that Caves three fourths of the fuel
commonly used in calk iron stoves or open chy ranies;
they are befidei very wbplcfome and ornamental, by
• PF, "°"° J. MOUCHET,
Wanted a fltillful hand to attend to the baking and
glaaing part of »he said ware. Generous appoint,
mcnts will be given. Apply as above, or to
DAVID BROOKS, Esq.
No. 71 South jib Street.
Feb. ig.
NOTICE.
ALL perfonj who have any demands agaitift
th« estate of Willam Fuewtoou, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are reqoeftcd to exhibit thiir accounts,
properly attested ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, tn
GEO.nOBSON, ? A .{m\niJ)r r
No. I], So. Tliird-ftreet. J
January 4S , ~ dtf
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
A valuable Lei of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
Hi-use square. This lot ts fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and nne hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street 5 there sre at
present two small two story brick houses, aod a
number of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient ftorcs, wharf, Ac. situate on
Water street, between Mulberry anl Saflafris
Streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth eall
ward ninety-five feet, »hen widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houfei
havi the convenience of a public alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and area very defirablefit
uation for a a merchant, lour faiflor, or others
who may have occasion for storage of goods.
Thts property will be fold on very reasonable
terms for rash. For further information apply
to the printer.
Jii'v it. mVwtf
Ran away from the Subscriber,
On the »<tß January t»B,
A Black Woman, named Zelimt.
SHE is of a middling sized ftatnrc, thick lips,
marked with the small pox in the sac
carried off a bundle of Knen with her. Whoever
takes her tip and brings her to the fwbfcriber, at
No. Arch-f\reet, corner of Fourth-ftreit,
(hall receive two Dollars reward.
J. LAZELLES.
N. B. Whoever harbors said Girl after this no
tioe, (hall be profeeutedtt the severity of the law.
February la. 13'
Ncu>-York, January H, 1798}
PROPOSALS
By Arondt Van Hook,
Proprietor of the Reading Room ;
For Publifliing by Subscription,
An Appeal to Impartial Posterity,
By Madamb Roland ;
Wife of the Minister of the Interior in France.
CONDITIONS. ,
These scarce and very valuable Historical Me
moirs, (which ran through two London «di
tionsin a few months,) will be comprifcd in 1
vols, o&ave, of 400 pages each.
They will be printed on fine paper and a new
type, and delivered to Subfcrihers, neatly bound
and lettered, at r dollar and 50 cent* per vol
ume—one third-os the-Subfcription money to be
paid on delivery of the firft volume—the re
mainder when the work is compleat.
To Printers, Bookfellerv and others, who
acquire Subscriptions, the usual allowance will
be made
■£r Subscriptions arc taken at the Reading-
Room, Ne. 149, Water street—the Printing-
Offiee, 149, Pearl-street—and at the different
Rookftores in New-York- Also, by William
Young, corner, f Second and Chtfnut ftraet, and
the Editor of the Gazette of the United States,
Philadelphia.
As soon as a fufficient number of Subscribers
are obtained, the work will be put tn press, and
com pleated with the utmost dispatch.
Feb. ao. eodam
PROPOSALS,
FOR PRINTING &T SUBSCRIPTION,
A NEW AND INTERESTING WORT, ENTITLE*,
A TREATISE
ON THE POLICE OF LONDON,
Containing a detail of the various crimes and mis
demeanors, by which public and private propor
ty, are, at present, injured and endangered :
And fuggefling remedies for their prevention.
« A MAGISTRATE,
A (Sing for the counties of Middlesex, Surry, Kent,
aud Eflex ; for the city and liberty of Weftmin
fler ; and for the liberty of the Tower of Loo
dsfl. fit; . * w/v
CONDITIONS.'
TWs work will be printed in a large oSavo, on
an eicellent F.ngiiih paper—lt will be delivered to
■ fubferihers, bound in boards, at the moderate price
of- One Dollar and a half; although the lafl London
• edition, o» inferior, paper and meanly hound, is
' now fold at *wo dollars and a half. To hon-fub
fcrfber, the price will be raised.
' WJutever encouragement may be given by fuh
feriptiou, it will be committed to *he prafs without
delay ; and, barring accidents, will be roady for
publication early m April.
gr Subscriptions will be thankfully received at
Benjamin Bavies's's boci-floie, No 68, High
ly, et. and by moU of the other booksellers in the
city ; by George Kill, in Baltimore; and by Sam
uel Campbell, and A. Oruamonti, m New-York. |
January 31. " MwtA
IV' v
' proposals,
Insurance Company of North America.
For Shsci.nci F'M. on Dwcl mg-
Houfcs Ware-Honfes, and other Buildings (and
on Goods contained in such Buildings) diftantfrom
Philadelphia, in the United States.
I. Common tafurince.', on hazards of the firft
class, will be undertake* at a premium of about
half per cent, per aneum For extra hazardous
rifques a larger p-cn-itm will be required, which
will vary according to circumstances, seldom ex
ceeding oar per ccut. pe- annum ; but in Come ifl
ftances. where the property insured i» not only in
itfclf extra hazardous, but rendered still more so
by the vicinity of extra hazardous buildings and
orcupations, the premium demanded will be raikJ
aceordir-.gtoeircumftar.ee*.
Houses Jltrt Ware-Houses, the walls and partf
tien. of W*.ich ife Wholly of Hone or brick, w«U
cunftruAsl, so wu'eo guarded a» *<li as may be
again# firefirnm (within, and tree from extra ha
zardous building* Sod ojecupations in their neig -
b»rhood 4 wj!l be deemed hazardous of the nrlt
claf». and may be injured ta tbeirfull value.
Also (Jopds and Merchanliie, not o ; an extra
hazardqtJ kind, in calks, bales, or package*, tlc
pofi'cd in fach buildings, to an amount not ex
ceeJing 4000 dollars ; bat if «n»re than this sum
is required to be insured in one tenement, an addi -
tional premium will be ret ired, in proportion to
eircuraftarces.
11. Insurance. will also be made on buildings and
good 3 extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to tha risque. But it is not easy to arrange these
under particular heads or classes, so as to describe
each with the necessary accuracy. Each caf» mud
therefore be decided upon according to the circutn
ftaaccs attending it ; and these circumstances wili,
in general, appear from the description accompa
uying theapplieatiort.
Buildings partly conflruiSed of brick or stone,
are preferable, to thofc wholly wooden. And in
both cafe*, the ftila of building, how they are oc
cupied, how they are situated, the neighboring
buildings, and how occupied, are considerations to
be taken into view. And with refpeS tagood*,
their" tend.ncy, whether from their nature, or
from the njanner in which they are exposed, either
to commence or to increase an accidental fire, and
their liability in such state to receive damage by
wet, or by sudden andhally removal, or to be Co
len in time of confufipp and harry, are all cir
cumstance* of weight ! jjnd the premiums must be
proportioned according^.
111. The fallowing eonditiont are to be under
ftcod by the parties.
ift. The Infcraace is not binding till the ftinu
lated premium be paid j bat it (hall be deemed ef
fe&ual from the time of such payment and accep
tance thereof, whether the policy be immediately
signed or not.
2d. Insurance* may be renewed at the expira
tion of the term of the policy, without further ex
ptnfe« than the payment of the premium of the re
newed term, the circumstances continuing the fame
as they were nnderftood by the Infurrrs at the time
the former insurance wa»
of the premium is eflential to such renewal ; and
if the party insured fuffers any time to elapse after
the expiration of the former insurance, before he
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
during such time ; nor can the insurance be renew
ed sn the former policy but by computing the
commencement of the renewal from the expiration
of the former insurance. The fubjt& of insur
ance may neverthslefs be open to treaty for a new
insurance.
3d. If any other insurance be made on the fame
property ; it mod be made known at the time of
application, otherwise the policy made on such ap
plication will be void.
4th Good* held in trull, or on conGgnment,
may be insured a* such in a feaarate policy ; but
they are not to be considered as insured otherwise.
sth. This company will net be liable or accoun
uhlcfor W=... j -n .. 11, —
"Hgn rnvafiop, or by any military or ufarped force,
•r by reason of any civil commotion ; or occasion
ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or other thing of the
like kind kept in the building, or amongtt the pro
perty insured.
6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu
rities, Title Deeds, Money, JJank and other pro
missory Notes, are not included in any insurance;
nor are paimings, medals, jewels, gems, antique
curiosities, or mirror* exceeding the valae of twen
ty-five dollars each, to be considered as insured un
left particularly mentioned and by special agree
ment.
7th. No insurance will be made for a ftiorter
term than one year, mr for a longer term than fe
vea years. P.erfons choofiog to infara for seven
years (hall be allowed orif year's premium by way
of difeount: One third of a years premium (hall
be abated in like manner on an insurance for
three years.
Bth. Lode* fuftaincd by fire on property insured,
fliall be paid in thirty days after due proof and li
quidation thereof, without deduction.
A description of the property to be infarod will
be expt&ed with each application, to be made by
a matter carpenter and signed by him, as well as
by the owner of the building or applicant for in
surance, and attested before a Notary or principal
Magistrate, who will certify hi* knowledge of the
parties and their.credibility.
With refpeft to Houjiertmd other Buildings,
ift. The lite and pwfifi n ; delcrihing the.
street or road Qn or near which the building
Hand* i its contiguity to water", and other cir
cumstance* relative to the extinguishment of fire
in cafe of accident j and particularly whether
any and what fire cocnpaqie* are established, and
engines provided,in the place or neighbour hood.
»d. '1 he materials of which it is built, whe
ther of brick, Done or wood, and what part of
each, a* well as to the out fide wall* as infideor
partition wall*, and their refpeilive height and
thicknef*; the style of the roof and of what
materials ; how lecured by battlements or par
ty wall* 2 what kind of access to the top of the
house and to the chimnie. 1 whether any and
what ele&ric rod* ; the number and kind of
fire place* ; and the kind of depoGt for alhes.
3d. The dimensions of the building and how
divided, and the style in which it is fiuiQied so
as to enable indifferent persons to judge in what
manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury; the age and condition of the building,
and how Occupied, whether merely as a dwel
ling house, or for any other, and for what pur
pose i also an eftireate of the value of the houle
or building independent of the ground.
4th, The situation with relpedl to other build
ings or back buildings,, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at least one hundred feet
each way : what kind of buildings are within
that distance, how baHt, of what material*, and
how occupied or improved, whether as dwel
ling* for private families or Gthcrwifc : whe
ther any and what trade br manufaftory j* car
ried on, and particularly whether there be any
extra hazardous article* used, or usually depo
sited in the house, or within the distance afore
faid, and of what kind.
in House*, Warehouses, «tc.
I. A peneral description of the building in
which they are kept will be expedled, similar in
all refpefls, as to the danger from fire, with that
required for Insurance on the building* them
felve*.
a. A description of the kiud. and nature of
the goods, whether in calks or other packages,
or opened ; and whether difplaycd in whole
pieces or in the usual form for retailing. And
if the goods vary materially in kind, a general
estimate of the v»!i»e of each kicd proposed to
be insured ; but in the lift particular minute
ness of description is not expected.
, Articles of the following kinds are deem
ed extra hazardous, though in various degrees,
in whatever build.ngthey may be placed, via.
pitch, tar, turpentine, rolin, wax, - Ullow, ° l1 '
inflammable spirits, sulphur, hemp, flax, cotton,
drv good* of an inflammable k<nd
GWs, china ware or porcelain, efpecial.y un
packed ; Looking glasses, jewelery.; and i .ll o
ther articles mor« than commonly inflammable, ,
or rrore than commonly liable to injury by fyd- ,
den removal or by mvifluret, or particslzrly ,
obnoxious ts theft on an alarm of nr«. ■
Letter, polt paid, diredl«d to the Secretary of (
the Board of Directors, will be duly attended ,
to. An order Tor Insurance; accompanied by the t
means of paying the premium, will be 'mtne
diately sxecuted on the premium being paid. Jr <
the application contain an enquiry ouly, it will <
be answered. • *
Bvord«v pfrhe Board, .
EBENKZRK HAZARD, Sec rj.
Office of the Insurance Company «/NortV >
America ; Phtlai. Feb. I, I 79 8 " 5
Feb. 14-
'l'o be Sold, t
ABUICK HOUSE, together with the Lot i t
thereto belonging, ; n the city of Burling
ton, New-Jersey. The house has three room* I
below, and three chambers itt the upper fiory.
The kitchen adjoining is a frame buil ing. The
Lot has a front of yi feet on Pearl-street, and
the fame front on the river Delaware. The
Jength of the Lot is about aso feet—The house
commands a very pleasant profped of the river,
and of the Borough of Bristol, m the Pennsyl
vania (bore. Immediate pofie(fi«n may be had. J
For further particulars, inquire of Mr. Job*
Sims, next door below the City Tavern in Phi- 1
ladtlphia, o» the fubferiberin Birlington.
THOMSON NEALE. ~
Burlington, march t- *eodtw 1
Valuable Property for Sale. J
- j
FO R SALE,
THAT well known Ellate, called SHREWS
BURY FARM, formerly the residence of .
General John Sadwalader, firujte 0n Saffafras Rj. 1,
ver, in Kent caanty, Maryland—containing a- J
bout 1900 acres of prime LAND, upward* of joo }
«f which are iri wood.. The Buildings ttre A n e ?"
callent, and osnfift of ahandfome Dwelling House, ;
two large Banis with Cow houses, Stable, for fifty
horses, a spacious treading floor under cover, a
granary, two Overfeer'* houses, two ran
ges of two fto'.y buildings for Negroe* (one of
them new aildof brick), Corn houses, a Smoak ,
house , &c. ic The whole Estate being nearly <
furrounJed by vater, it require* but 'ittle fencing, ,
and has a good Shad and Herringfilbi:ry. It is j
conveniently situated for both the Philadelphia arid j
Baltimore mark 4», with two landings on a navi
gable river but athort failfrom Baltimore. There
is a large Peach, ind two large Apple Orchard* on
thepiemifss; alfi, a,variety of excellent fruits of 1
different kinds. The foil i* mostly a rich loom.—
The whole will bis. ld together, or divided into
f aller farms (for which the buildings are conven
iently situated) a* 3iay suit the purchaser. The
Stock on said Farm consisting of Horses, Cattle,
Sheep, &c. will also be difpofsd of.——For further
particular* apply t) George Hastings, on the
prexnifes, or to the Ijbfciber. in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, juk.
February 14. »aw6w
House and Lots, in Bordentown.
HPO BE SOLD, a handsome two'ftory House,
X with the Lot on which it i. erected, situat
ed about the middle of the beautii' ' jr""" f
Village of Bordentown.
two feet in front, and m neat order. The lot
contain, one acre, and " one hundred feeC on
the main street, and extend, with the fame
taining nearly four acre*, frparated from the
former by back street. One third only of the
purcha r e money will be required upon execut
ing a deed, and for the remainder, such credit
w 11 be given a* the purchifer may chufe. This
property will be fold free of all incumbrances,
and an indisputable title given.
For further particular, enquire either of Dr.
William Burnes, reiding in Bordentown, near
the premifet, who fill (hew the fame, or of
PITER THOMSON,
Conveyance,-, No. 43> Mulbexry-ftreet.
December a. 3awtf
Just Published,
And to be had at tie Book-stores of MelTr*. D#»-
.on, Campbell, Younc and Oauaofi,
ii Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caule. ant Cure of Remitting or Bilious
Fever..
la which it annexed t
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and praAice of
different author*: and an-APPENDIX, exhib
iting intereOiig faAs and refleftions relative to
the Synoebut liiroides, or Yellow Fever, which
hut. occasioned so much dillrefs and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the seaport
towns of the Hnired-Staws of America.
■v WILLIAM CURRIE.
Felow of the Philadelphia College of rbyCci»»«,
and Member of the American PhUeiophie.il So
ciity. Feb. I—*3«J§
Bafkenridge—for sale
IT eonfifts of 910 acres, aim oft all of which i.
a fiat rich Meadow, (the residence of the late
Earl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which are bounded on the
East by the river Pafaiek.
Th-re are on it a number of build Rgs, forming
afquare of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
it a vary convenient one. and,a fmalleipence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard confißs of 1500 finebesring engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other'pirt* offaid
traS near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great
variety of other fruits, particularly Cberrie. of the
best and not di.licious kinds,
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotic, and
Forest Trees, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its situation is about 18 mile*
from the towns of Newark and ElUabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and It from Springfield —It
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in calh, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chcfnut treet.
February 1 eodtf
COLUMBIA HOUSE ~
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with muoh pleaf
ureand refpefl, returns her Gncere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(he ha* received during four years residence in
Philadelphia; and *ffures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, flie ha. made a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
fcholart.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education i. particularly attended by Mrt.
Grootnbridge and mailer, excelling in fteir
refperftive profeffion..
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Street..
June sth, 1797. Jimftf
TJie fitaation i. perfeAly healthy: and made
more agreeable by aa extensive garden and lot
|of ground adjoining'the house.
THIS DAY IS OPTiVED,
And for file by WILLIAM Y<;'JNG, Ne. j»
corner ef Second and Chefnu'-ilrcets, '
In one Urge volume, S vo.
(Prict ef thi cummin paper, neatly louni, 1 Julian ja
tntl ; fiat ditto, u hoar A, 3 aoOuti J
AMERICAN'GAZETTEER,
EXHIBITING, in alphabetical order, a much
more full and accurate Account, than hai
been given, of the State,, Provinces, Countiea,
Cities, Towns, Villager, Rivera, Bays, Harbours,
Gulfs, Sounds, Capes, Mountains, Forts, Indian
Tribes, and New Discoveries, on the AMERICAN
CONTINENT, also of the W*»t-Ihdia Islands,
and other islands appendant to the Continent, and
thole newly difcovercd in the Pacific Ocean : De
ferring the Extent, Boundaries, Population, Gov
ernment, Pfodu&iens, Commerce,
Curiofitiea, See. of the leveral Countri-.s, and of
their important Civil DiviSom— and the Lenei
tede and Latitude, the Bearings and Distances,
from noted Places, of the «itiet, Town*, and Vil
lages with a particular Defwiption of Tic 6«r
gia IVrjiem Territory. The whole conpriling up
wards of Seven Thouland diftinft Articles.
CoUcAed and compiled from the befi. Authori
se, and arranged with great care, by, and under
the direction of
JEDIBIAH MORSE, ». ».
Author of the American UaiverfatGeography—;
Fellow of the American Academy of Aru&n4.
Sciences—and Member nf the MalTacliufctti His
torical Society.
[niluilrated with seven new and neat Map*.]
(PubliJbtJ attar Jing f, ail of Coagr.fi.J
Also, FOK SALE, at alovt,
Mr. Morse's Universal Geography,
In two large 8 vo. volumes, price 4 dol*. 50 <l3.
Ditto, abridged, at x dollar.
February *6. eo4t
■ *#
New-Tort, February, 1798.
PROPOSALS at GEORGE FO KMA W,
ro* printing *r iusst*j»noN,
A New and Valuable Work, which has been w
tant only fix menths— entitled
TJROOFSof a CONSPIRACY against
JL all the Religions an-1 Governments of EU
ROPE, carried on in the fe<jet meetings of Free
Mafoni, Illuminati, and Reading Societies. Bel
' ROBISON, a. *.
PrtftJJv <f Natural Pbiltfophy, aaJ Surttory If fit
Royal Sot'tHy of £Jiniur^l>.
Nam tun rm agitar parut turn prtximui aria.
{J* THIS work will be pat to pfefsas soon aa
400 fubferiber* are obtained, and no money requit
ed until the work is completed.—lt (hall be print
ed with an 1 legant new type, and on paper of fn
perior quality, which will comprise about 40*
pages neat o&aYo, han'fomely bound and lettered
—the price will be one dollar amd fifty cent*.
Taofe who procure n fttblcribers, and become
accountable, (h»U have a 13th gratis—and the u.-
fual allowance to hookfellert.
Tae above work comes from the pen of I.
Rohifon, of Edinborough, a gentleman in high
eftimatioa -n the literary world—the fa&s therein
recorded are well fulftautiate.', an J the reafonmg
and argumen s thence deduced, while they disco
ver the found judgment and penetration of the
writer, are calculated to amufc a* well a* to in*
ftrudt. ' A scene of villainy it developed by the
author fufficient to appal the stoutest heart.—The
danger to be apprehended from secret focier'** **
clearly pointed out ;
ture awfulb» —T-t*Od the hazard of every
from the straight path of religion and
of virtue, inconteftibly proved both to the politi
cian and the christian by ftuhborn and innontro
vsrtable fads.
t-t-t SSui/iriptitai tain h h O. Forman, No. 4<,
tWillmm-fiiKt, Itffefitt titPtfi-OfUt, andly tte rtfptt.
ivt boolfulltrt M New-York ant PbiUddphia.
February 38. _____
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subfiriber, propoGng to contra® hit baft
neft, offers this Eftaie for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of stones; also a good Forge, ail
in perfed repair,as are all the Water Works connect
ed with thefc various branches. The Air Furnace*
were lately built tor the purpofc of calling Cannon
for this State.—There are abou> two tfeoufand acne
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the befl Hay anA
Paflure. The Cannon lately mannlatlered thrre,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which ia
luperior to any in this country, and probably, eqeal
to any in the world ; for not one of frxty-ntne fun*
lately made, although some of rhe »4 were bored
into 32 pounders, have failed on proving. The situ*
ation is very eligiblt, particularly for tbi> branch of
manufaSure, and a place of arms lying in the Sate
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from several land*
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan*
tage that can retult from a plenty of water ifiuing
from a large natural pood, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all theftock and utensils, and have pofleffion
on or betore the firil of June next, and preparation
may be made in the meantime for goinginto Blalt im
mediately thereafter, for every pait will be delivered
"» Kood order, with fomecoal, Ore, Ac. Ac.
terms, a t*t*f7
M. . fuiepb i
phia; David Brooks, E(q. one of the Reprefentauvea
in Corgrefs for this State ; Mr, ©.ivid Waterman, eq
theprenvifes, or totbeiprepiietorin New-York,
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee. 1. , .^awtf
Wanted\ to Hire y
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a generou*
rent will be given; te be taken lor a year, or ot>
more for a longer term. Inquire of the Printer.
oa. 17. ■ «*f
FOR SALE,
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Including Long Primer, abeut 400 weight, ia
good condition, and would answer the pur pelfe of
a country Printer as well at new.
Enquire of the Printer.
City Commiflioner's Office,
January UM, 1798.
FOR THE INFORMATION OF THE C!TIZIVS>
THE following arrangement it made by tbe
said commiffionert, for cleaning the
. ftrtets, Ac.
Diflridl No. I.—From the north fide of Vine
street, to the south fide of Mulberry street; te
be under the fuperinttnd#nce of Nicholas Hickt.
a from the fquth fide of Mutbrry street, to
• the foiith fide of Ckefnut ftrreet, to be under the
■ fupcrintendance of William Moulder.
t j. From the south fide of Chefnnt street to
1 the nenh fide ef Spruce street, to be under tht
> fuperintendance of Jol'eph ClaypooJe.
r 4. From the north fide of Spruce street, to the
r south fide of Cedar street. to be under the fu»
r perintmdancr of Hugh Roberts. rowfim
E Jujl Published,
* And to be had of MelTrt. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Beokfcilers in t*ie
city,price one dollar, twinty-fivecents,in boards.
New Views of the Origin of ths
e Tribes and Nations of America.
t By BENJAMIN 9MJTH BARTON, m. a.
Jaiic »o.