/ ** /
otm tllttty J&t&ftS, ' A ™ Pnladelphid Daily Adveritseh
By John Ward Fen no, N°iio Cbefnut Street.
2sum££H 1939-3
The price of this Gazette is
Eight dollars J>cr annum to Sulfcri
hers residing in the city of Philadel
phia. All others pay one dollar ad
ditional, for encloftng and dire fling;
and unless some per/bn in this city will
become answerable for the fubferip
tion, it muM be paid Six Months in
advance.
For Sale,
jj~ccr THE sum,
AERIAL,
' JUir AND
jyft, PENNSYLVANIA,
BURTHEN about three hundred
ti il.Tach, built of the bed materials arid well fouud
n-.ay be lent to ft aat a (mall expence. The
of thefc (hips are so well known, that a
particular defcriptlon of them is deemed untie •
ceflary. For terms applv to
. GURNEY U SMITH.
r.ov. 22 §
For Sale,
*<»^ BOSTON PACKET '
Hi'mnts Cnwv.RTuwsir, Maftcr,
BURTHEN ab«ut i.jCO barrels, 3 goeii strong
Ship—has excellent aocnnimodationsfor paflcngers,
mav I.e fe"t to sea with small expsnce. She is lay
ing at Mifflin's wharf. For further-particular en
tjoivsof
Isaac Harvey, jun, or
Smith & Ridgway.
novembcr 16 Silt
|(TT Said (hip, if not fold on, or before tha ftk
of D'e.mber.tnft. will on that day, in the evening,
be offered (or sale by public auiHion, at the mer
chant's coffee haufe.
Smith £3* Ridgway,
Isaac Harvey, jun.
dec. J.
FOR SALE,
THE SHIP
PERSEVERANCE,
Jamet W,illiomfin, mqftcr.
Jnft arrived from St Domingo, built in Phi
ladelphia, of live Oak and Cedar, copper (heath
ed in London, burthen 320 tons mounting 16
guns and may be prepared for sea in a few days,
With her Cargo,
Now on Board,
CONSI STING OF
151 Ho»(head» and 50 barrels Suear
260,000 Weight of prime Coffee in hhds. bbh
and bags &
ALSO,
R. Williamson, Majler.
FROM St. Domingo, with her cargo, confiding of
x 43 hogflheads of Sugar,
And 40,000 weight of prime Coffee.
LIKEWISE,
AMIABLE MATILDA,
MOUNTING 12 Guns, burthen
w two thousand two huudred barrels of
r'lour, a»id in aompleat order.—Applv to
Thomas fohn Ketland.
novembcr 13 S
For Sale.
T , HE SußscHi«e», intending to decline- the
DRUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the
whole Stock of
Drugs and Medicines, Iwfirruments, &«.
The (hop is elegant, commodious, and fuffici
ently known for the extensive business Cone in the
wholcfale and retail line ; the situation equal to
any ir> the city, being at the cui ncr of Walnut and
•Second flrcets; The whole, or any part of the
will lie fold, a-i will bed suit the purchaser.
Th« terms ni3y be known, byapplyirg to
JAMES MOORE, jun.
IVLo has For Sale,
Well calculated tor the rive.- trade—
ThePEGG?, about 30 tons burthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably
flou', ot an easy draught «f water, rigging in
good order.
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
•well, and in complete order for the dumber business
gf All persons Indebted to the late firm ci
{jola:mtkZit CJ * BaUivii, W. B■ Goldibtvait, (Jolu
fbitjtt *s* Ahore, or the fuhferiher, are earnestly
jecntfted t» make iperdy payment to
JAMES MOORE, jwn.
august 3 5
BOSTON BEEF,
aoo Barrels in Shipping Order.
tor sale b*
JOHN SKTRIN,
No. 96, Aorlh Fromjlreet.
W ho wants to Charter,
A GOOD STOUT VESSELy
about 300 Tons burthen.
MAS ALSO J-OR SALE,
40 Pipes of Madeira Wine, 3 years old.
Ncr 2t ' m4 t
Old Madeira Wine.
27 pipes of old London particular
madeira wine,
n ftroag iron bound Hambrfl' ca/ks, for
a!«by ROBERT ANDREWS.
Nov. 30. todtf
PHILADELPHIA: TGESDAY £V£fING, DECEMBER 4, (798.
• v -v, . •; J
Ship Broker's Office,
And ComrmJJion Store,
No. 1:9, South front Strfft,
Ne*t doir to she Ctiftoia Mouse.
THE Subfcrifcer, encouraged t>y the advice of
his friemls, offer* his service to the public
as a Ship and Ir.lurance Broker.^—He propof
ea to buy and fell veflels and every thin.» relat
ing therito—afftft matters of vcffels and others
in entering and clearing at the Custom-House,
procuring and (hipping freight, fettling Inl'ur
an<c ar.d all other mercantile accounts, and
have on hand the Dectffary Blanks and Stamps.
Papers in foreign languages iranflatej, and in
formation given in general mercantile matters.
From a kuowiedge gained by long experience
of every branch of business he hopes to be tife
ful to tho'e who plealc to fivor him with their
commands. SAMUEL EMERY.
novemUer tg $
FOR WILMINGTON, s.
North- Carolina,
THE ship
'COMMERCE,
Captain Wood,
WILL take in freight on very mo
jSnflrjr-' derate terms, and about tiic
2>th instant. Apply to the Captain on board at
l.atimei's.wharf, ot
Willings Francis,
Pcnn Street,
novembcr 16 §
For SALE or CHARTER,
-rv. THE SHIP
MOLLY,
Burthen 42C0 barrels of Flour,
Philadelphia built, well found
■^"^* s -"" r -®*"and fitted, and may be ready
to receive a cargo in a few dave —{he is pierced
tS gnn.«, and mounts ia new si* pounders, with
small arms in proportion.
»—a THE SHIP
DIANA,
Burthen 2,100 barrels of Flour,
Philidtlphia built of live oak
.cXxUsaiVaSf" and cedar, it pierced for four
teen guns, end mounts ten new four pounders,
with small arms in proportion.
THE BRIG
AMAZON,
Burthen 1.300 barrels of Fl*ur,
New-England built, has lately
been completely fitted, and may be ready for sea
in a few days.
For termsapply to
mcKim b" GRIFFITH.
Who have for Sale
- fir? /i riilij nI—JVT ju, ■ll t rfn r1 ■ ■
12,00 c bu(h*l« of Liverpool fine fait
1,100 bufbels o?'coa!s
286 crates of queens wate affortefl
7 tierces of bottled porter
10 barrels of coleothard paint
4 do. of purple brown do.
a quantity of ytflow ocre in ca£k»
6 barrels powdered Venetian red paint
6 barrels mineral black -10.
15 barrels Spanish brown do.
35 boxes ef pipes
91 boxes white j HAVANA SUGARS
89 do. brown )
3,5C01b». prime cothir.eal
3 barrels New Orleans indigo
4 puncheons Jamaica spirits
20 bales of fail nnvafs
379 Iheets of copper, aff«rted from 48 by 24
to 60 by 48 inches
Two tubs raised flill bottoms assorted
36 Cx pound guas4s fc<t, 84cwt each
14 do. 4 feet, Kwt and 4lbs each
50 barrels of gun powder
6 cases Manchester cotton checks
3 trunks muslins and (bawls
14 cases muilincts, dimities and gfngbjims
»8 chests coloured nankeens, tnuflinets, &c.
11 trunks printed calicoes
6 bales of whit* and coloured cafliineres
1 bale of course woollens
Engltfli nails assorted.
O&tiber 27. fri.&fat. tf.
For Sale,
THE SHIP
® ALEXANDER '
Gideon Hall, majter,
BUl< THEN about ioeo barrels; an execllcn;
live-oak and cadar built veflel; four years old
fails remarkably faft, and is now ready to receive
a Cargo. A PPty to
John White sides fc? Co.
Market ftrect, uov. 28 d6t
HUDSON &f YORKE,
NO. 54, NORTH FRONT STREET,
HAVE JUt-T RECEIVED,
Per the la It arrivals from Europe,
A VERY COMPLETE ASSORTMENT OF
DRY GOODS,
IVbich they will dfpoft of on reasonable terms,
AMONGST WHICH AKE
Sufijrfine and coarse cloths, coatings,
Ebtlic and fancy do.
Caffiraeres, plains, duffils
Rote and drips blankets well assorted in small
bales
Furniture chinties, cottons aud dimetiet
Callimaneoes, cambists, darants, moreens, and
joans
Muslins ot all kinds
Velvets, velverets, thickfetts and fancy cords
An elegant aCortment of ribbons
Red, white and yellow flannels
Red and green bocking a-nd w«l(h baizes
An invoice cutlery and hardware
Cottonadei. (hawls, printed handkerchiefs
7*B 4-4 xt-8 checks
9*B & 5-4 cotton firipus
Cotton, worded and fiik hosiery
do do Gloves
Threads, bindings, tapes, icc. See.
nov. 9 . ,j lS p
John Aliller, jinr.
Has relumed to the City,
AND II REKOVIMO tkOM .NO. 8, CCSNST,
To the Five Story BiiilJing, in )ock
near Third-flreet.
, Where he haa for Sale ,
250 Bales of Bengal Gods;
coivsutinc or
Codies - •
f Raftas
c Mamoodies
Humhums •
Calicoee
s Handkerchiefs, (sfc. &c.
The remains of a Stoci* of
j DRT GOODS,
Confijling of IVooiess only
ambncst them *rx.
Cloths
Coatings
Rlankets
r Kendal Cottoils
Hats, &c.
ALSO,
100 Hhds. of Old Rtwn,
Of a fine flavor, 3d & 4th poof.
nov 10 $
"REMOVAL.
George Dobson,
- TNFORMS his friends and the Public in gertnil
t A that he ha* removed from No. 25,SoutW Jhird
street, to No 92,Southlideof
the corner of Third Street, and is how fining
a very exrenfive aiTbrtxmnt »'t
DRY GOODS,
- 22*f TABLE FOR THE PRESENT PRISON,
which hi- ::as just mcnviD,
Per the ships William Penn, Amiable, anc Jane,
from London, and per Chefapeak and lioma*
from Liverpool, and will bu fold low fa cash,
or approved notes at a short date, viz,
• London 7-4 Superfine Cloths and
Caffimcres, falhionable colours
Yorufliire 7 4 do. and do.
.Mixed and plain coatings
' Welch flannds
Ktrfcy bcav-i', for Spencers
Jeanntts and Tabby cords
Velvets ayd velvctteens
Velverets and thickfetts
7, 8, 4 4 and 11-8 cotton and linti checks
' 7.8 and 4 4 bed tics
6-4 and 7-4 bed bunts
London chintz and chintz furnitures
' Furniture cottons
Doi dimities
Purple and chintz shawls
Silk do.
Camels hair do.
Silk, cotton, and worftcd hose
' India and British muslins of every defe'iption
Black and white orape
Tiffany and paper fans
Hats alTorted in'fmall cases
Umbrellas
Peelings and fattins
Laces and edgings
™ Ribbands —^—— —'
Suparfinc French cambrtek
L'ambrick muslins
Do. threads
Pulicat and Madras Handkerchiefs,
And an elegant assortment oj
Bruflels and Wilton Carpeting.
November 17 §
Imported,
AND FOR SALE BY
Isaac Harvey, Jun.
No. 9, South Wats* STRttr,
A
Surinam Cotton and Coffee.
Irish I nets, in whole aiid half boxes
Checks
Drogheda linen
Irish hackled Flax
Liverpool Salt and Coal.
Mso A PARCEL OF
Men's and Women's Combs adored.
Scot's Thread—and
One hundred hoglheads of prime Aux-C'ayes
MOLASSES.
II mo. nth daw
Imported
IN THE LAST ARRITALS,
Superfine, fine and commcn cloths
Swandowas
Baizes ;
Velvetts ,
Velveretts
Printed calicoes
Furniture & fancy dimities ,
Hairribbands
Sewing Clk
BrulTels and Persia caipctts I
Buttons
For sale, for cttjh or cedk, by
SAMUEL INERRICK.
no. 343 Arch flrcei ■
nov. 16 §tjani
LANDING.
From on bodrd the Brig AmiaW? Matilda, (
Richard Stites, Mailer, frai Cape a
Nichula Mole.
13 Bale* Socks and Flannel Draws I Co
18 Do Gaiters 1 3' sof o
* D °- Ru K' l Z'-- »
I Do. Havre Sacks r M °
1 Do. Flannel Trowfers I g 5
1 Do. Tents J - J
Also just Importd,
In the Ship Chcfapeake, Captai Wtbh, fi«m
Liverpool, j,
147 Crates of Queers Ware, >'
AlTorted particularly toTuit tie Weft-India t
Market—For Sale bj y
Thomas is 1 John Ketland. 1
november 7 $
Now Landing,
From on boawl the fliip Jdbr Bulkeley, and
for sale at the (lores of effe & Robert J
Wain, ft
350,0c o weight of Jiva Coffee,
of the fint qnality in hgs. n
150,000 weight of J.va Sugar, *
in cannif ers. i
nov. 13 dtf
Bond &c Brooks,
CoßKti ar Ma»k*T A-ND Sixth strelti,
HAVE Rtcan r ED,
by the late arrivals from London, Liver
pool and HuH,
or
Which A4y are now tipcrirg for sale, ct the most
reduced prises,for calh or the usual credit.
A capital Stand for Business
TO LET,
That large and commodious HOUSE, no. 39,
foHth Front (treat, directly opposite the Poft-Office,
together with the i l urc and cellar, on the_Wattr
flreet fide, Kucjaire as above.
iiov 17 §
FOR SALE,
A UANT IT T OF
ROC OA.
ALSO—A few bales of excellent Cayenna Cotton.
fubjiel to drawback—enquir- of
JEHJU HOLLINCJS W OK.TH & Co.
Na. 47, Psnn Street
nov. 14 dit'
JAMAICA RUM,
A Cargo now landing at South flreet -uiharf,
FOR SALE BY
PETER SLIGHT,
Apply at Stores on the Wharf,
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR lAI.S,
:tl BRANDY, lit and 4th proof
rd Madeira and Port WfNl'-S, See. Sec.
ar Nov. 1. dtf
>2 ' ~ " " ~
Forfait by the fitbfcr 'tbers,
A f E W BALLS OF
ft WOOL E N S,
e, Containing Cloths & Blankets,
w 150 bales Bengal muslins
ii, ao do. Madras handkerchiefs, elegant pat
terns
(i aoi pieces Kuflia sheeting
IO boxes umbrellas
a quantity of caflia
30 t»n< Peterfbuag clean hemp
25 pipes, 3 ytac* old, fined particular Ma
deira wine
a quantity of sheathing copper
Mordecai Lewis,
nov. 26 diw
i. 1 ■ 111 ■ J, j
J lift imported in Jbips William Perm, A
miable and Jean,from London,
A quantity of Cannon,fizes 4,6 & 9 lb. "> with balls
Carronades, i» lbs. j suitable.
Mufquets, M ufquetoens, CutlafTes anJ~| ja
Pillols, for ships use, I -
Rifled barreled Guns, Fowling Pieces, 1 §
and Horfeman'sPiflols, f -5""2
400,000-Flints, chiefly for mufeets, in { 8*
m hags. J "j
Regulation Light Dragoon Sabres, with Iron Scab
bards, in cases of jo each,
Light Cavalry Swords in Cases
Sabres, Swords and CutiilT-s. with plate J mounting
Ironmongery ac» ! buttery in calks, a general as-
Sat .incnt —For Sale by
Thomas Cs* J no. Rutland,
Philad. OAober 25.
Just Arrived,
In the Brig Eliza, from the Mediterranean, aftd
now landing at Walnut Street wharf,
r . Fourth proof Brandy in Pipes.
5 lirimftcne.
_ An afl'ortment of valuable DRUGS,
CONSISTING or
Opi&m, Aloes, Canthaiides, Camphire, Senna,
Cremor Tartar, &c. Sec.
EfTcnces of Lemon rnd Bergamot
paper
Sweet oil in botfles and flalks
Olive*, pnehovies and cajers
Juniper berries
itL S 0. —Italian loteCricgJ
Satins
Cra,<cs
UinUrellas
Remaining on Hand,
St. Croix Sugars,
Claret in cases
Old Madeira Wine of the firft qi^lity.
" /AMES YARD.
November 3 5
- ISIIAkL PLEAtfAN l Co.
No. 74, South Second ffreet,
Have returnedfrom the country ; and have for
s SA!.E, as usual, a large assortment of
DRY GOODS,
Imported in the lad veJTels from Europe, confiding I
of articles principally suited to the preftnt and ap- 1
proaching season
They are determined to fell off very low for ,
pafh or short credit.
Note. All persons indebted to the late firm of ,
Samuel Pleafanti Ist Sons, art dcfircd to make im 1
mediate payment to tho fubfcribcrs.
l/rael P leaf ants & Cot t
Nov. 2 d 4W
Genteel Boarding £3? Lodging,
IN A HIAL'IHY SITUATION.
MRS. M'CREA informs li»r friends and the j
I'ub.ic, that (he is prepared to accommo
' date fcveral Gcnrjenii-R, wish genteel Boarding :
and Lodging, at No. I 7, Filbert llrtct.
" ov - d/f ,
2 DESERTED, i
FRO M the ftip of war Delaware, under the com
mand of the fubferiber, t*o feamcn, viz.—.
Francis Cazcnavc, a Portuguese, aged 28, about
$ feet 6inches high, dark complexion, black eyes j
and hair, speaks French and Spanish fluently, and
tolerable good Englifli. Also,
> Tbcnai PenJergrait, an Eugliflimah, aged 16, a
bout 5 feet 7 inches high, light hair, freffl complex
ion and blue eyes.
Whoever apprehends faij deferters,and delivers
them oh board any Ihip of war belonging to the A
United Stares, or lodges thtm in goal (hall receive "
ao dollars reward, or 10 dollars lor either of them. \
S TEPHEN DEC A TUR. h
"<> v - *4 d:ot
NOTICE.
ALL persons indebted to the estate of James -
Thompson, of the Indian Queen, Fourth
ftrett daceafed. are dcfired to make payment to
the fubferiber*—and those who have any dfneand. j
I agninft thefaid efla-.e,arc requested to fend in their -
accounts duly attctlcd for fertlement, to
MARO ARKT I HOMPSQN, 5 Administratrix. f]
JOHN THOMPSON, } dn,iriftrat«. ''
dim
\VOLVME XIV.
NOTICE.
ALL Pfrfons indebted to the Eflate of doc*
tor Hugh Hod;j«, dccealed, ire requflled
to make immediate payment—and ib»fe hiving
demands against the Eflate aredelwedtoautlieu
ticate and prelent them to.
MARIA HODGE, admmtfiratrix.
SAMUEL HODGDEN, administrator.
lIPV 10 0
NOTICE.,
ALL Persons indebted to the of Doctor
H*ancu Bowes S*r««, dcceafcd, are re
queftad to make immediate payment—and thofc
hiving dear and* againll the said Lftate, are desired
to ptoduce the fame, duly authenticated, to
Ann Sajrrc, ) Administratrix.
Robert Heylham, Administrator.
novemher 15 daw
To be Sold at Audtion,
TO THE HICHCST BIDDER,
On THUKSD/ir, the istb December next.
At the Bunch of Crape, tavern, in BOSTON,
prccifely at 1 o'clock, P. M.
Two Notes of Hand,
j Signed l>y Kelly and Clark, and indorsed by
j Martin Kinflry, 'J hojnas Berber and James Greeu
j leaf, dated Bccember 18, 179j, and payable the
' Ift day of January, 1799, viz.
One Note for three thouLnd fix hundred dollars,
and one Not: for four thousand tit Jit hundred
dcjlari.
B' fton, novemher 14 (**)
Tlie Subscribers
HAVf. JUST RtCMVfrD Art InVoIC! OF
Choice Cheshire £s?Double Gloucester
CHEESE.
[Per the Cmksapeaks from Liver pooLJ
100 Boxes of Window. Glass,
Of various sizes, per thejANE, from London.
They have also for Sale,
200 Casks of Refined Salt-Petre,
AND A QUANTITY OF
Fine Castor Oil.
James C. & Samuel IV\ Ft/her.
November 1 dtf
~ FOR SALE,
By FrsHBouRN Wharton,
at No. Nt South Fcurth-Jlreet.
China Ware,
Nankeens
Teas
Boglipores
Lutestrings, is*
Silk Shawls.
n° v - '.*• cdtf
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT application will b: mada aj the Trea.
fury of the United States, for the renewal of
the following certificates of Funded Debt, stand
: ing in the name of Robert Whitworth, of Chelfea,
London, thefaid Certificates having been forward
ed by the ship Ellicc, Hatvey, from London for
New-York, captured by the French, andfuupofed
to be IoR.
v N0 '"437, 6 Per Cent. Stock, dated Jfcw-
YoTk ' A P ril ' r '96, fw Dollars. 1481,47.
I „« 1 A °' ,' 7 '' If" Cem " dat#d New-York,
I *8tl» April 1796, for dollars 400
SAMUEL MILBANIC.
November 18 Myf
Jaines iff William Miller,
, flreet, have the lollowlng articles for
lale upon moderate terms for caih, or the
v usual credit.
Scarlet Cloths, -
Low and middling quality, Mulberry and Green
ditto, White, Red, aud Yellow Irilh Flannels
Blue, Green, and Mulberry half thicks. India ca
licoes, Gurrahs, MamoOdies, Guzzincs, and other
muslins, fancy ar.dpliin cotton hof«, velvets,thick
fetts and fancy curls', sewing silk and twist of all
colours, ferreting, hsir ribbon, coloured threads
India flag bandanoe-, and other black and colour
ed fiik handkerchiefs, a variety of other cotton
do. Soutc romals, red Gilla handkerchiefs, mo.
teens, foan fpinninj. luAians, beavers, jeans fa
tinetts and royal ribbs, also muflincts and dimitiea
ginghams, ladies'kid and cjloured gloves- &c '
pov - " ■" ' dto't
John Dobbin,
BOOT & SHOEMAKER.
RESPECTFULLY informs his Friends and
the Public in general that he carrier on his
bnfinefs at No 99 South Second-Jlreet, nearly od
pofite the Merchints Coffee house wh.re gen
tlemen maybe Applied is the Reatefl and befl
manner—he afiures those who may pleafc to fa
vor him with their commands that no attention
or exertion on his fide shall be wanting to render
him worthy of their encouragement.
N. B. Orders received will be punaually at
tended to.
November 5 j
Notice is hereby Given,
That application will be made at the
Bank of the United States for the renewal ol
the following certificates of Bank flock, ftandinjr
10 the name of Hodgfon Atkinfon of London
which were loft from on hoard the SwaJlow Pac; *
ket, capt. Kidd, captured by the Frendi, and ell
persons concerned arc desired to take notice.
No. 2424, i(Tiled in lieu of No. 1891,
1892, 5662 and 16640, for 4 fliares. '
No. 3020, iflued in lieu of 11055, and
11057, for 3 (hares.— 7 (hares.
THOMAS M-SUEN & Q„.
Nov. 2I j im
NOTICE. " " '
AX.L persons iudebted to the eflate of TOHN
late of this city deceased are
requeued to m;.ke immediate payment, and those
who have any demands againll said eflate are de
sired to rentier their accounts properly attested to
the fubferiber for fcttlement
ELEANOR SPURRIER,
Administratrix.
"° v - «* 1 _ I)3t
notice,
A LL Persons having claims t/pon the Eflate
A- of Jamci Thorburn, Stonecutter, dcccaf
ed, are desired to present th*m for payment
and those indebted to pay their refpeaivc hil.
Intces to
Benjamin IF. Morris, ndninifirafor.
™ v l * 3**3*I II 'I -■■♦--* "S«V - v *'ii
*
m
Volunteer Greens.
k Tli E Gentlemen enmpofintf tlie Troop .
of Vo'fcnterr Greens, will meet at ffm. Og
den's T.vern, in Chefnut-ftrcet. on Thurf
dav evening the 15th inllar.t, at 6 o'clock,
oil business of importance.
JOHN MORREI.L Capt.
December 3 1798.
e LETTEItS, ~
TO go hy the (hip Amiable, Daniel
, C. Tillit ghaft, master, for London, will be
received at No. 12, North Third-ftrcet, un- r
' till the 9 h inft. inclusive.
dec. 3. dtßth
- ~~WOODBURY AOiDEMT.
<
TKE Triifiee»of the Woodbury Academy, t
in thee unty of Gloocefter, New-Jersey, '
' have the 'itisfaflion to inform the numerous
, e pttrons of that inflitution, that they have en- f
j g the Revererd Thomas PiSon, to be the 1
* principal, and Jo take upon himfelf tha charge t
of the above femmary of learning, and that the I
I fehool will b« opened on Monday the tenth ind. c
' Among the exercifss tan jl-.t here, wijl be the ; £
English, Latin and Greek languages, gramati
cilly.—Reading, Writing and Arithmetic in ill i C
e its branches; Stenography, Geometry, Geogra• 3
- phy and 'he use of the Globes, Navigation, Sur- '
t veying, &c. C
This inflitutioii *as formerly under the care | ;
and <!ire<?lion of the Reverend Andrew Hunter, c
and the fame attention to the education and mo
rah of the youth, which under him so highly
diHingui(hed it, will he pursued with unremit- c
_ ting endeavors, by the present principal and du- c
ly attended to by the trustees. ■ e
_ The town of Woodbury is fitnated on an high r
j and elevated spot : It is airy, pleasant, tnd re- }
n markably healthy, and is but nine miles distant .
;r from the City of Philadelphia.
Parents, guardians and others, who are dif- 1
pnfed t<> fend their youth to this place, will find (
exceeding good, detent and comfortable board- I
K ing and lodging, and upon rcafonable terms. :
t, Further applicatiun may be made to the prin- !
1 cipai, or (
'John Sparks 1 (
- Thqmas Hendty
Franilin Davenport |
fo/bua L. Howell I Trustees.
John BlacktuioJ
John Lawrence )
j Thomas Heft on j
ELISHA CLARK,
Secretary of "the Board.
Woadbury, Dec 3 " diet
TO-MORROW,
WILL BE LANDED,
, At Wharf y from an board the
Schooner Thomas, Captain Brown,
From MAkritn^uE'
111 Hhds. of bright Mufcovada
t SUGAR.
For Sale, by (
Philips, Cramond &* Co. ,
s dtc 3 3£_ 1
For Sale,
45 Boxes Havanna Sugar
56 Hhd«. St Croix do C Entitled to
j I Bags Carracas Cocoa C Dtawback. 1
3s Hbdl. Cqjfce )
RUNDLE Isf LJpECH,
No. <jf, Waluat-ftrcet.
5 dec ,y . ' . diw 1
Coffee.
r " 25 Tierces Coffee,
FOR SUr. SY
JAMES TARDy
Walnut-Areet Wharf.
Jec Z, §
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRinSRt,
14 four pound Cannon, different lengths,
* 5 Carronades.
JOHN NIXON & CO.
s December I. §.
WAITED,
APerfon who is a good accountant and un
derstands Book-keeping, none need apply,
t. who cannot produce good recommendations
Enquire of the Printer hereof,
d dec 3 $
" for sale.
And immediate poffejfion give,
A CONVENIENT three Story Brick House
Piazza and Kitchen,in a pleasant and airy
part of the City—Enquire of the Printer,
dec 3 d6t
f7 helffrich~
OFFERS his kind service to his friends ahd the
the public in general, and informs them
that he will undertake fmoaking of Meat in the
compleateft maimer, and at the eheapeft rate ;
has a large frooak-houfe, ia which he will smoke
at once a thousand piece:—he would therefore,
kindly thank those who would saver him their
custom, by applying to him »t the corner of Ship
peu and Fifth street*.
dec. 3, fd 3 t
Notice.
ALL persons indebted to the Estate of John
BiTz.late of Southward, baker, deceafrd,
are feqaerted to make immediate payment; and
thofehaving any demandsagaiuil iaid Estate, to
forward their accounts, properly atteiled, for lit
he tlemcnt. to
ed CHRISTIAN BET 2, Administrator,
b " no. 135, Mulbory.flrcet.
,re Philadelphia, deccmber 3, 1798
FOR SALE, i
By the Subfcribers
-200 Bolts Ruflia Duck>
50 pipes London pai tit ular bill Madeira Wine
I pair nine p«und Cannon
A few Baits Madras Handkerchiefs
4coo.bs Fine Flota Indigo
>3 Barrels. Beef.
\ Willings & Francis^
Penn-flrect, }
Novorobtr 28 ) {
FOR SALE
By the Sub/cribers,
OS S IR Y LOV.'TEIUi
WAX CANDLES,
Q» A SVFEKI9A. QUAIITV,
Eitherby the Cngle box of »4lbs. or by the qnan
tity.
Willing: & Francis.
nov 14
MAYOR'S OFFICE.
REMOVED to 157 South Second-flreef
. »«• iiw
,; n #*« An Apprentice will be
talfen at this Office •» if immediate applica
tion is made.
'ftt <®a?ctte. II
k
HH LAD ELPHIA, w
' TUESOY EVENING, DECEMBER 4. a
Froathe Columbian Mirror. a
8
Nomses V. '<
c
' TO THi PEOPLE OF VIRGINIA. A
P
/V//o.' Citizen J, t
IN dilafling the constitutionality of the
Sedition law, some notice was unavoidably H
• taken of ae otl er objeflions that have been t
[ made to i| and which the rcmonllrance very n
' truly reprfents as of inferior weight. It t
. has beenibje&ed that this lawJias created a
new offtues—what are they ? The law has ''
: been verblly laid before you, and relates »
only to wo kinds of offerees, unlawful t!
: ; confpiracs againH the government and laws "
" jof the Uited States, and malicious librls d
against th government or either house of o
. congress c the president. Is either a new c
offence ? You have been told that an un- f<
: lawful con'piracy to subvert the government, t
1 or to preveit the due execution of the laws, a
is an offerce newly created by thi» aft of ft
congress. Rather I should fay it was an o
. ofience criated by the confiitution, was co- t
. eval with t, and punilhableas a trcafo:>able v
1 | mifdemeaior, though no law of congress t
' had been defining the puniftiment. As v
[ a general principle, disobedience to a law p
is i publi: offence, and, consequently, dif
1 obtdience to the conftinti'.n, which is the a
. fuptcmelaw above all earthly laws, must be 1
a ptfcli: offence. Can then an unlawful t
• confp'ncy to oppose and prevent the due a
execution of the powers of the confti'tution v
or of t)e laws, be deemed a new offence ? c
I almot blulh while I answer before a fen- 1
Cble pople an objeftion a3 fiitJe as impjfl «
' dent. " If (fays the rtrnonftrance) we f
were nfluemed by any vague opinions of I
the rijht of the government to defend it- j
felf bylaws against libels, 'riots and unlaw- i
ful afTrnblies, we should be checked in no 1
small (egrce by the spirit of the provifiens
againfttreafon, which may be defined adit
reS alack upon the existence of the ge. e
vernmeit. Supreme in enormity as this f
crime s, it is reft'ifted to two cases ex- >
prefTed n language which for centuries have 11
been fix d judicial decisions." What, ' '
is it dened that the government may defend ]
itfelf by laws against libels and treasonable '
confpira:ies ? Can any propofitiori more '•
direftly ittack the existence of the govern- 1
meßt thin this? Does it not explala the <
intentiors of the authors and pations of the 1
fentinsents contained in this remonflrance <
from Albemarle ? Is treason itfelf more di- i
re&ly pointed against the existence of the >
conftitttion than the sentiment that the 1
United States may not protect and defend' '
themselves by laws against conspiracies for 1
flopping the wheels of government ? Be- '
rtie \jioj.c * s 1 nfifl i■ii tj iii rcTyrng" :
war against t4»«m or in adhering to their '
enemies, giving them aid and comfort."' it
is inferrd in the remonftranire that a eon- i
fpiracy to commit treason is no offen.ee at I
all, or tlat it is a new offence, unkoown
till the fidition lav was passed. tan this,
for a monejtt, be conceived to be a j»ft in-*
» ference ? Eut suppose a new offence has
been introduced by this law, I demand of
any good :itizen, who. loves his countrv,
If it has no: beeti proper in itfelf. Congress
i« empowe ed " to. provide for calling forth
_ the militiato execute the laws of the ttnion,
jupprefs infiirreaiont, and repel invasions." j
- If such be the power of Congress, it feetr.s I
to be their legislative duty to make a call : '
. upon th: militia for any of those purposes as
seldom leceffary as poflible—or shall the
laws be uffered to. be impeded in their exe
fe cucion ly combinations, of conspirators,
y until fu<h combinations are suppressed bv
the mfli'a ?—fhall iofurgents be permit
ted to oijanize themselves for serious te
fiftance, before the hand of government
ie shall; be tretched forth to reduce them
m to obediere ? Rather, ought not all such
xe unwarrantble and definitive conspiracies
' to be prremed" m the due and ordinary
:i «iurfe ofegal punishment, and the militia
ir be relievd from the painful service of ufirg i
>- arms agaift their fellow citizens ? Are no* <
treafonabe conspirators the precursors of
_ treason ?If the former nav rightfully grow
up and flurilh, and there can be no law to
n prevent tfem, will not their fruit be open
rebellion nd treason ? I cannot believe tiiat
' o this doftrie has been generally seen in jts i
t- ' Tue light a this slate. It is a doftrme too •
unnatural, too unreasonable, too monstrous
for any to advocate, who have a
rial wi/bjr the continuance of our conjlitutinn.
'i While it akes away the power of felf pre--
fitrvntion, itgi'ves a vital flab to. it ; and I
am lure tSa many who have been led by
means of g:o"s misrepresentations of this and
ie other laws toeDmplain of them, have not a
wish to put ai end to the government.
Another cafe of diffatisfsftion is dated
to be, that th expreflions of the law are
vague and unertain ; and that old offences
are newly mocfied. To this, a short anf
wer may be gven. Examine the law and
yoa will find the expreflions the fame as
have been alvays in commsn use among
us, and whofemeaning has been definitely
fettled in ourmurts. An unlawful conspi
racy of a nunber of- perfbns, with intent
to oppose anr measure of the govern
ment, direfld by the proper authori.
ty , or with iitent to impede the opera
tion of any lav or to intimidate or pre
_ any perf« holding an office under
the United Sites, from performing his
■ $ tC^C ' a,l g ua g c adapted to the
_ unckrfranding f eTer y citizen. So also,
e " to counsel, ivift, or attempt to procure
'"furrtaion riot, unlawful assembly er
combination, *vit> intent" to do either of the
evil acts beforentniioncd, seem to be words
' equally pla-r. and intelligible.' " To wite,
; print, ui'er or publiili ;or to procure to be .
' written, printed, uttered or ptiblifhed ; or '
knowingly and willing'y to ailift or aio in
writing" printing, uttering or publishing,
any falfe, scandalous and malicious writings
against the government of the United States 1
or either houses of congress, or the ?
dent, with intent to defarr.e either of them," '
3re expressions free from doubt ; and I re
gret to observe, that offences have bee'i too
long permitted with impunity. In all these
case s , 91 evil intent is indifpenfible to ccn
ftitute the offence ; and in all trials the jury
possess the exclusive right of deciding vvhe
ther tl,e intent be good or bad.
To irive force to of this kind, ''
it is painful to remark the misrepresenta
tions which have found thtir way in the Ie- ™
monflrance. It afierts, that " the turpi
tude of a uiiblic officer may def-rve censure;
1 and yet if there be a combination between
, Iwo men to exhibit hi nto the world, as ur.. "
1 worthy of confidence for that very conduct,
this mayfall under the severe, denomination
: of intimidating or preventing him from un- a
dertaking, performing or executing f.!3 trull J
• or duty." This is not truly said of the law.
A publick officer is still an objeft of candid
. fcutiny as heretofore. He may be exhibi- '
, ted in his real colours, as freely now as at
any time heretofore ; and there is no re-
F ftraint »;pon speaking or printing the troth 1 j
1 of any public officer whatever. As ta li- | 2
. bels, those only are mentioned in the law ! 1
■ who'll defame the gov. rn'ment or either
i house of conareU, or the president, and e-
5 very-other officer re<roan>s under the ancient
r pro'tedion of the laws and constitution.
Equally fha neful and groi'.ndlefs is the
; assertion, that "he who harely records po
; liiical events, and dr|ws corclulions front |
1 them unfavorable to a president wilhomt t
; any intention to publish them ; the historian j
1 who writes now, but postpones the publi
? cation until the tumult shall have subsided is
- Table to a fihe of twi thousand dollars ai«l
Jan impiifonment of tjvo years." In the
e fame spirit it is also said that "if a printer
f be tim'iS. he will discard every pi A ure of t
- public affairs or public servants, which i • (
- not so emblazoned with flattery as to fiireld
j him from the possibility of puniftiment."
s In a former paper I endeavored to shew
that the freedom of the press was unabridg- r
. ed, and if I have proved that to your satis- '
s ; faflion, which I trust I have done, nothing 1
. jre nains to l>e adde t to prove the fallacy of 1
e j these assertions. But as if determined to c
: t ' reach thehigheft poin< poflible for the pur- 1
d pose of alarming your fears, theremonftrance ]
e ilates that " one neighbor cannot lend to •
e another for perusal a new/paper, which he
1. knows to contain an assault on the president
e coming within this atl, because this *i'oula '
e be uttering or publishing -" I have obferv- '
e ed already that there can be no offence com- '
i. mitted against this law without an evil jV
e tent, such as the law has described. How
e then can the harmless loan of a newspaper
d ' be tortured into a crime ? What is there in
>r the law, or any law of congress. which
warrants so incredible a representation ? Is
ft it not an experiment on your credulity and
juui '
ir you to consider by what means, and for ;
it what ends, so many erroneous ftatejnents,
i- and so many disquieting assertions are to be
it founi in a remonflranee coming from acoun
a ty in which, at leafl, correft information i
' might be obtained.
i-' VIRGINIENSIS.
is November 24.
>f "
fl CT" THE OFFICE '
h OF the Committee appointed to fix-
J» per intend the building of the Frigate, is
, s ! a g ain opened at No. 95, South Front
jj ; Street, where attendance will be jnven
js to receive the fubferiptions cf those gen- V
ie tleman who havt not vet made payments,
november 11 ( | t f
g tf •
y FOR SALE/ ~ ' 1
t_ AT THIS OF f I C.£,
A FF.VV Copies of an interesting Work, in i
French, entitled a Hifiory of
™ Th« Administration of the French.
Finances,
v a, DU * IKG THE teak
' a," 0 ' Hiftoriial and Political View of the
Auminiftra.ticn of the French Republic, during 1
g the year 1797, —ef the causes which produc- '
>t ed the r
5f Revolution of the 41b September— 1
w And- of the results of that Revolution, j
PXICS 1 EACH. - . '
it r I . he,e o, ' , ' , ' a l tracts, are from the pen '
of the celebrated d'lvernois,and contain a thou- I 1
fa " d of the lolly, venjUiy' i
° profltgacy of the d.fTerent Ulnmers who:
18 ? V u r< ?' gn ®! l 10 France (luring the iauer stages I i
ot thc horrible Revolution wow pending in that 1
t miierable and depraved coumry.
.. Nov - 3■ J
I M oils far South- CaroltnJtsfGeargta, \
7 , P are now provided for carrying the '
U and (bl l' C ft raa L wi ' er bat Phi'a 'e! phia i
3 f Ihe y Philadelphia ;
on Friday l by land will U cr-utin...
d ±,H C r 3 i- made ,n "
e "ft , th ,r ex^cd,Uon rt-emjrity of the '
packets. If any person chbfes to have their '
r let^' s r - nt b y'"d only,, they w.Il plcal'e to
write tne word Land upon- the letteri • other
g s po!-2e c sucrthe lwtcrsare Ike
y y°f £ pK Haberfi am,
'* /,/ •/ , ■ . P°fl-Mafltr Gemerl..
•t _^ b 'laJelphia, Augtijl 13, 1 jjg.
? TEN DOLLARS REWARD
;• DS D a .i? w
h/w V I"' C,n, P' Lupcr.. a fife-.
iWi T.»r«iin llUe jacka and
- r "'' , g t hln;overall., a round hat,which h^dbe,n
IS B J 7 r ' anJ ' Ahich ha had ripped off
'i) defpitjoii, and a pair ftoThe i.
a Carpenter by trade, has grey eyes,ford« hair
J, fallow complexion and a nitch in his Upper l ip
day. "H- JlTr " he £« »
,r " i\ g ; ma > ko difcovcred by h,. fifcin
le 14 1,4 P'»ys extremely well.
is : OaobJV'" of the
i 7 «M?.rir.c Cor^s.
m
Itate ifarcign jftetos,
LONDON Oitober 2.
The Bred fleet is certainly at sea
fidtrable force ; Government received ""
tnation of the fact on Saturday, and let?''"
trom Falmouth, received this morning ft ,
that the American ftiip Mount
Capt. Merick, from Baltimore, has a rr ;? j
there, the Matter of which reports that
Wcdnefdsv last, about 20 leagues Weft °r
the Scilly Islands, he fell in with the Civ!
Mermaid, Ambuscade, and Stag friJ,
when a beat from one of them boarded hi'"'
and informed him, that on the preceding 7'
they had fallen in with nine fail of
men of war, with troops on board wh" l
they supposed to be destined for Ireland
The frigates dispatched a cutter t 0 seek LoTd
Bridport's fleet, and were fleering f or T re ,. r '|
with the wind at East.
The Government account of the abov
force makes it consist of two fail of the V =
and nine frigates, and f meapprehenfions are
entertained that their destination is not Tr
land, but the Weft Indies ; we will howl'
ver, hope, that Lord Bridport will he
to fall in with them. He failed from T, r
bay on Wednesday last. om ior.
The Ramilics, Triumph, Saturn 0 f »
guns the Repulse. and Polvhemus' o f6l
guns each and a number of fri gaU s'ar- J
ready cruizing off the Irift enjft.
A report was yelterday in circulation,but
we know not originating, that Barra,
has been aflallinated in Pari*.
The Tea plant is found to succeed to ad
miration in the n;w Colon y of Sierra Lecne
.lome fpecimcns of tea produced there have
reached England, and bee* found cfacuali
ty equal to the belt brought from China
On Saturday, being Michaelmas day, ac
-1 cording to annual cuitom. a gl(?at fl a . ; ,; lter '
! was made among the gsefe. The eultom
. nginated the defeat of the Spanifc Ar
mada. 1h; news btiwg brought to Queen
Elizabeth, when (hi wa s al dinner o< a
goose, fke dtfired it might alvvawbe dreff'd
on the Anniversary of that gloriou* event
to perpetnatethe viftory.
October 4.
Accounts da cd the 27th of Angult, were
received yelleiday from ConftantinopL-, that
N.lfon wes ~ff the iflaod of Rhodes ; he
had not destroyed the French transports
which were at Alexandria, but had left Intre
of his fquadmn ta prevent their getting a
way, -nd had sent to the Porte for bomb
vessels, £cc. to en?.ble him to destroy tbe*i #
Buonaparte had cut off the heads of above
200 I urks, for rejoicing at the vi&dry over
he Frepch flett—His troops were very
sickly -ie had exprefied his determination
of marcning into S.yiia, but it wasthocght '
he w<"ild be prevented from want of prc
vilions, &c. The Grand Seignor had re.
moved liis Vizier, becaufs be did not think
him fufllciently hoitile to the French—The
members of the French njiffnn had been all
arretted and imprifor.ed.
A fubfeription is opened at Lloyd's Coffee
fell in the IWrruoffer com maud at Admiral N<l
- fen.
I ih; Fast Indu Company has received fetters
: from Bodibay, of as | a !r a <h:e as the loth rf
Augwft, which contain the important intelli
! genet of the Britiflj fettlemcn: bring Wfy pre
pared for any expedjtisn that ea* be uadtrtakci>
by the French.
Letters from Pans, hy the last Hamburg mail
Hale, that a new revolution is preparing in the
Luxemburg : The overthrow of tije LegifUttve
power, or the efUbliftment of rUe Dirr&oriaJ
Delpotilm at tfome, Milan and Genoa, art but
previous t,T*ys to zdcfyn of the fame nature to
be executed in. France.
A letter from Men:r date! the ;th of Sepr.
) s » tlie general in*chief of thear
my o| Menrz, a tier reviewing the u»tinle line,
was given order*, that before the firft Vende
maire (>ept. 22) next, all the troops are to he
n the Nidda, or the Vangiiard heyond that
river, ar.d are to be provic&ed with every thing
nrcefTary to begin th« military operations by a
rapid march into the interior parts of Germa
ny. Jn,conirq»jence of these dire<flio«s, all thr
troops on both fides of the Rhine are
and putting- in requHition every thing iieccfEiry
for a long march.
CONG RETS S AT RASTADT.
Yesterday evening the French legatioa
delivered in the following notes to the In»-
perial Minister Plenipotentiary.
Th underfigued ministers plenipotentia
ry of the Trench repu'Jic for negociating a
peace with the Gerrtian have re
ceived the note of the deputation of the em
pire, which was cemmuaicated to> them on
' the 15th Frudtidor (Sept. vi) by the min
ister plenipotentiary of his Imperial majesty,
; Whatever may be the fatisfadtion whici
the undersigned may derive fiom the paciiic
language of the deputation of the empire f'
whatever may*%e the confidence they 3rer
difpefrd lo place in it, they are neverthelef»
compelled' to obferw,. that si&er more than
nine months {pent in. ncgociation, \vordf r
and evqn intentions, are not fi.fßjient ; re
alities are heceffary iu ord. rto prove a sin
cere desire for peace- Peace mult be con
clu ed, and the underligued are unremit
ting in their endeavors to hold it out. It i*
true, indeed, tliat the deputation seems at
present disposed to tmerje from that state
of indecision in which it has bten h:ld ; is
has recently assented to one of «lic impor
tant demand? which have been made in the
name of the French republic (to wit) the
demolition of the forlifka;ions of Ehren
breitftein ; and this aflent, which it this day
renew, is expreffedin a manner which (hews
that the undersigned were not deceived when
they made the uncontradiSed declaration*
that they regarded and accepted that assent
as pure and Ample. But why permit to
remain in oue c-f the preceding conclusumt
the conditional disposition that had crept
into it ? Why fiuftrate the good eflefls cf
a revolution, which, by obviating difficul
ties, and by reltoring to the facrifice made
by the dtputation the whole of its merit,
mighf have given to the French gore nmentan addition*! dfTuraiitfe, o r the rtciptovaj ]
loyalty of the negotiations, and a firmer' j
foliditv to future engagements ? It is also 1
true that the deputation of the empire fliews i
itfelf fully disposed t<V cede n the French ;
repobl'C the fortified island of St. Peter ; 1
but it seems to set an exag 'erated price tip- 1
on that ceflion, which wou'.d considerably I
reduce its value, and even the mere propo ;
sal of it would induce a belief that the de- <
putation too ealily forgot the mar.y facrifi
ccs which the French government lias al
ready made with a wish to rcflore peace to
the empire. I'is in general a mistake, and
one can and ought to repeat it, to think of
ettablifhing between two contra&ing powers
a reciprocity of advantages rigorously ex
ail : that nice balance is scarcely ever to be
found, either i" the nature of things, or the 1
refpe&ive position of persons; and if it '
could be admitted in the present
tion, it is evident that here would result (
from it a real inequality for the French re
public, which in that cafe would not only 1
lefe a confi fersble part of the proportional |'
fatufadlion which is due to it but whi< h r
would also fte dimioifhed in its hands the |
important advantages whith it might have i j
preserved, and which diminution would rife ;
from the effect of that reciprocity. Such t
a fgfletn, utterly irrecoucileahle with any ;
peace whatever, and much more unfounded, 1
when contrafled with the splendor of the '
French viftories, cotild nevei be seriously in- j
filled on by sincere and juditiousnegotiators.
Notvvithftandingthefeohferrations, which i
were dtemed 1 neceflary, underligned i i
will net deny but that tin note of the depu- - 1
. ration of the empire has offered them some r
melioration in the state of affairs, and the J
happy though tardy pofiibiiity of a result ,
impatiently looked f.-r by both nations. It i
appear?, indeed, from the analylis of that c
note, that at least all the eflential difficul- 1
ties are now reducible to these three quef- 1
lions :
, 1. The retaining by the French, or the J
restitution to the empire, of the fortified |
places Kehl and CaflTcl. ,
2. Theti'.nafer upon the countries given f
in exchange on the right bank of the Rhine f
of the debts which (hall fall u,'on those ced- *
ed 011 the left hank. (
3. The application or exemption of the [
French laws concerning the emigrants. All t
the reft, as the deputation observe, will be a
easily ai'jufled, when the great obflacles b
are removed. The attention of the under- 1
signed then is wholly dire&ed to these three ''
questions, and the examination they have [
given to them has been the more fcrupu- 3
lous, because the two lad seem nearly to o
affeft the welfare, the liberty, and the for- tl
tureofagreat number of families in the e
two Hates ; obje&s which the French go- 0
▼eminent holds sacred in its politicalrelations c
with other countries, as well as in its inter-
nal administration. Accordingly they do t<
not hesitate to make the following procla- c
mations and declarations, at the fame time t'
under the exprtfs reservation that the fortifi- h
ed island of St. Pitrre shall immediately be J
ceded to the French republic, and at the
fame ttmesll the clati£ea_Aiui.-' >
nexed to the demolition of Ehrcnbreitftein, tl
and other demands of the und rligneu, fliall
be annulled. ri
1. It would be nfelef here to relate the ''
•well known reasons which so powerfully 11
induce the French republic to retain pof- 'j
ftffiofi of Caflel ar.d Kehl, with their de- |,
jiei.tlencits. The fame reafo.is (lill prevent n
them from agreeing totally to abandon
these poffeffioMs. It is natural to believe 11
tSat the praiccs and . thrr states of the em Cl
pire fliould consider thii point in a political
view, that they fhau'.J ultimately regret
their not hanng fufliciently pjreeived or
properly appraciated this objeil. But in
flead of a faiutary confidence, in feeing se
veral fortified plaaes iu the hands of the
Freneh, they frem to have experienced an
opposite feeling. In order to expel all ap
prehe«fions, the Fiench epublic give? up 2
the fortrefles of Kehl and Caflel, which ri
stall be d ra..lifhed, and only (ha!) retain the I
territories.
2. With refpedl to the deiots ; the depu- 1
tation fr.rely have not prefurr.ed that the h
French government could jigree to any ar- n
rangement which fliou'd be calculated too ti
fcnljhly to depcecatj the ceflion of the left b
bank of the Rhine ; to perpetuate between Cl
the two nations the feeds of intricate discus- ! ' r
fions, and to transfer to a territory united
to France the expence of the war. which the 1
empire itfelf has incurred. The debts of b;
the countries ceded, as the nndcrfigned j 1
have uniformly said,, shall be transferred to
the countries van the right bank given y si'
way of indemnification ; but the republic 31
will consent that the provincial and commit- j ''
nal debts, with the exception of those I re
which may have been contrasted on account f'
of and for the expences of the war, (hall be Ci
and continue toaffeft the ceded territories. t £
Ihe rights of the third creditors are re- CI
served. ! fli
3. The underlined declare, that the laws j h
refpccting emigration are not applicable to 1°
cotintrtes ceded and not united, not even to ; P
Ment7.. Thev make this consolatory decla- n;
ration with pleasure : but as the article to jtc
which this forms a reply, is fnumeratcd a- 1 V
mong the 18 articlen annexed to the note of so
the deputation of the 3d of March, and this hi
amtle is with articles mentioned
in ;he note <>f the 1 ith of the fame month, T
it is proper here to explain this point precil'e- tii
ly- The tinderfigned declares then, that T
they have new anfwtrcd those articles and tl
p'efuppolitiong in every point capable of b;
di'tuffiiui, farther rtferting themfilves to ki
iheirnoteof tlie 19th Germinal, and de- A
ciaring that the French legation dots not, m
: -"d »ever csn regard these ariicles and- pre- P 1
Xnppofitiors, but as irfttlated, diftinft from it
*>nc a"other, and indepn of ail others, tr
d 'hat thev \yill oppose every application
of them employed to invalidate 1 r'elude the A
; <«int agreed upon. ba
The mini Iters plenipotentiary of the hi
French Republic present this note as the 'h
P l<rd o r of peace. B
1 1
I
■"•ill I'ntttce an! * kth);y hdr.g now iKj
icr ; | tdges of ilie a., lir the French legation
Iso flatter th?inf;-fr v 's tint the deputation of the
ws empire wi.l unite vyith them in this opinion,
ch and that they w:i! not take upon there the
r ; relponfibility o r being the'firfi. to produce a
p- rupture. L hey give the minister plenipo
>ly tentiary of his majelty the emperor their
10 aflurancea of ths molt dillinguifhed confi
le- deration.
si - BONNIER, ,
,1. ( Sl S« ed ) jotIM DKBRY,
to ROBERJEOi 1 .
nd Rajlarfl, 28th Fru&idnr,
of Sept. 14, C)th year if
:rs the French Republic
x-
he The nivlerficncd miniflers plenipotentiary of
hc '^ c French republic for the negociat'on of |'CJC<r
with the Orrmanii empire, received on the 35 th
; a (^ e pt 10) a second note from the deputation of
the empire tranl'mitted to them by the miniller
"t plenipotentiary of his majelly tK emperor,
e- The particular objefl of this note is to de
ly manil the recal of the republican troops 011 the
lal | r '2''t bank. The tiftderfit>ned invite the depu
rjj 1 tation of the empire to weigh well this truth; f 1
clearly riemoiift'. ated fincethe opening'it' the
I conferences —that the executive direfloty of the
! trench republic is fmcerely deiimus us peace
de an 1 a (petdv and perse?! reconciliation between
:h the two dates ; th.it it desires nothing so much
ly as to fee not merely ditnh Hhetl but entirely fu
d, pcrceded, by the hippy inutility of defenfive
| le precati'ions, the cir ull fiances witii
the present (huation of affair.-. and that this anx
iety tor precaution may utterly reale.
rs - I'he deputation (it the empire cannot, uo»n
ch its fide, fail to perceive, that the demand which
eJ ! it renews at present is
u . abandoning the military pnfjtions being necefla
ne r ''y'hf firft oonfequence of an efteilluated pa
he C! 'i clt:o "i there is no peremptory reif«n why
the troops of the republic HiouM be withdrawn
I t from the other fide of the Rhine. By repeat-
It ing an orjfervation thus eilentially jjft, the un
at derligsed will avail themfelvcs of it, in order to
i(. Ilroy a very Wd and ungrounded alfert 011, pro
:f- P2S J, ed far and near, and which the enemies of
the French nation will, doubtless, not be back
. ward to circulate and enforce. It has been said
*; that the republican truop< bad tranfgrefTol the
-" line marked by the amnelly. The ministers
plenipotentiary of the French republic give a
;n formal and full contradiction to this pretended
ie faiS. Thev afl'ert that the republican troops
j_ have not overstepped the lines fixed on for the
two armies. This example, to which it were
easy to annex others of a similar nature, ought
"j to have reminded the deputation of the empire
to guard itfelf againfl all kinds of reports, ti
le aggerated or absolutely falfe, which may have
es been, or (hall hereafter be made to them, uni
r_ f.Yrmly with the hope of exafperatifig the pub
,e lie mind, and perhaps to withdraw their atten
tion from defigr.i that are truly hoflile. No one
' e can be ignorant that certain individual hardlhips
'• are inseparable from the transition from a (fate
0 of war to that of peace : it is not the fault of
r- the underligned that this transition has not prov
ie ed happy and rapid ; it behoves the deputation
of lf\e empire to become daily more thoroughly
|3 convinced that the mnftefficaciou-labor thatcan
ever be exerted for the solace and happtnefs of
r " nations, are principally and only those that tend
0 to prtvent the calamities of war by a speedy pa
i- cification--It beloag'i to the deputation to yield
ie to the wilhes of the Princes, and of all the in
j_ habitants of Germany, whose rcmonflrances,
e and even whose complaint 3 (well into a cry for
peace. Then all lubjeifls of uneaGnefs on either
,e tide muS cease, and the remembrance of pad
' luftermm will bedrowned in the enj'.yment oi a
i, tranquil aiTil durable pr> fperity. _ ■ I
11 The minTfttfs plenipotentiary of the French
republic, it doling the present note rel'erve
e themselves expressly to what they h ve declared
in their firft note of this day, relatively to the
x 18 articles annexed to the note cf the deputa
tion of v the empire of the 3d March, and to the
hints thrown out in the noce nth of the fame
it month
II Thcv afTure the minillcr plenipotentiary of
his imperial majelly of thtir mod diftinguiOicd
conCderation. f!OMNIK.{,
, (Signed) JEAN DEIiRY,
" ROBERJEOr.
)r Rnjiadt, 28th Fruclidor, ~l
Sept. 14, 6to year nj V ,
the French Republic. J
HAMBURGH, Odober 6.
n
1. They write from Paris under the date of
p 28ih September, that further accouuts were
h received there of Buonapaate's landing in
e Egypt-
The fleet arrived at Alexandria on the
13th Meffidor (July I.) The Englilh fleet
e hid been there three days before. In the
•_ night of the 2d July they began landing the
0 trOops, and Buonaparte in person went on
"t board one of the gallics, and followed the
n columns. On the 2d July they landed, and
f. in the evening Alexandria was besieged, be
d fare even the artillery had been landed.—
e They had no other arms or weapons than
f bayonets and ladders for scaling the walls.
J j Tw« or three hundred tvere killed or
0 The division that began the
Y ! siege was comT.anded by g. nerals Klebcr
c ' and Menue. The fermer was wounded in
. 1 the head by a muflcet shut, and the latter
e I received a contusion in the thigh by a (Vine
t Ifiom the walls At length French courage
e : conquered, and they took Alexandria. As
ter it was. taken, inflead of committing aity
. j cruelties, they shewed the greatell friend
: fliip to the inhabitants. The flierifF wa>-
s kept in his a d received the tri-co
n 1 loured scars as a compliment. They took
0 1 pofleflion of the place and the arms. Buo
. 1 naparte assembled all the leading chara&er*
a ! to insure the fatety of himfelf and army.
. ; When the FrencA came to take poflefTian qf
f some other fortifications, the garrisons not
3 being acquainted with the furrenr-er »f A
j \ lexandvia, lired on them and killed frveral.
( | The Arabians intercepted the watering par
. ties, and killed nijie from the ship Tonnant.
t The fame day about 30 Arabs appeared in
j the neighbourhood, and were furronndtd
f by a detachment of French cavalry, and all
3 killed except one. Alter the surrender of
. Alexandria, Buonaparte sent several detach
, metsts to reconnoitre the adjacent villages,
. particularly Rofetta, which place opened
t its pates and lent a deputation to the French
, troops wite the tri-cufoured flag.
, After Euonapaite bad taken pofleflion of
: Alexandria and tl-e adjaccat towns, lie em
barked his army rll the Nile for Cairo, he
; himfelf went by land to meet them and take
; the command. Cairo was att i. ked ; gen.
Brun, and the brigadisr general Viall, at the
1
t » •
/ /
ie head of the cniurqrtS tooka filiation which j
m ensured them the city- On the 23d July |
ie Buonaparte entered Cairo. 1
On the 2f!r!i July aduiral Brueys made j
ie known thefr circmnftances by proclamation I
a The battle of the 2d Angull was already ;
3- made known through the division, generals !
>r and government comniiflioners.
1- Besides ihrlofs of Brufys, we mud la- '
mei't the loss of Captain Petit Thouars, '
who 101 l one of his leg* and would not fuf
fer himfelf to be drefTed. He kept the
quarterdeck to encourage-and command his '
crew. The Eniflifh fleet has iuefFred as 1
much as ours. The French (h'p Genereaux |
is very probably at prcfcut at Corfu. All
the gun boat?, the (hips l.e Caufle and Du
bois, Together with all the transports, are j
either in the p?rt of Alexandria or on the ;
p Nile, where they are very fafe. Admiral .
;r Brueys, who, as it is already known, 101 l i
his life in the ba' tie, the capture of j
* Cairo known on board his fleet, by the sol-
IC lowing proclamation : " Fellow Citizens.
1" our brave Commanders have taken po(Tcfiion
ie of Grand Cairo, the principal city of E
ie STP 1 - The Beys placed all their hopes in
e tb j defence of this city. Ten thousand
a Mamelukes at'acked them with great vio
h I lence, but were repulsed immcdiatelOne
1 thousand of them were cut to pieces, and a
, e ! great number drowned in the Nile. The
, ! remainder took to flight in the greatefl con
1 fufion, and almost the whole
n ' wounded. Wc took all their baggage, three
h hundred loaded Camels, and three iiun Ired
e liorfts richly caparisoned. The generals
l " ; Brun and Viall, followed by their brave
, • troops, took the Fort of Cairo by afTault.
ij , The city of Grants Cairo, which boutains
t . : 400,000 inhabi ants, sent a deputation to
1-j the French army. General Buonaparte en
<> tt red Cairo with the acclamations of all the
citizens. The Capture of this city ensured
' us all Egypt, and gives another palm to our
victorious trophies. Long live the French
e i peop'e, and the French Republic!
sj (Signed) BRUEYS."
a
J ■—
: Domcttic
e
it I PORTS IVTOUTH (N. H.) Nov. 24.
c
a jacobin's name.
We arc rcqiietUd to rreitioH th; Jicobin's
namCjNvh® petitioned to Viilor Hugues for fratcr
'* nal treatment, (a* fUtei inthe hit Oracle.) —It
was a capt. Nlul'on, in a brijj from Philadelphia.—-
e Wc havj not kejo able to cbiaia a true c«pjr of
3 Viilor s letttr ; but it is supposed to fciave run in
e the following style ;
* Health ess Fraternity.
Dear Sir,
1 Your's of this date is received.—Can you
Y think that the needs the fuppcrt
a of American i'raitors ? magnanimous French
f nation defpif-s such fcouudrels I The only difcrim
i ination f {hall make, i< to cjnfine you with great
- # er severity, and keep you on Ihorter allowance ;
■1 for the villain who prefers any country to his own,
- merits the guillotine.
V. HUGUES.
r
J Violent Snow Storm.
On Ssturdfy evening last, commenced a violent
Snow Storm; Sunday it abated, Sunday night it in.
crmljctl—'o. geafer violence, ard the wind bkw cxe.f-
fivriy hard from the N. E —Tne trmpeft continued
' all day on Monday, Tuclday and Wcdnefday, and on
1 lUe evening of Wedwefd-iy the weather cieared up.
e Thequamity of snow which fell feemsalmolt incredi
hle, and the oKleft people aff-rt that they never knew
r l'ucb altorm (nearly in ihe season.
Tne country polls from various parts inform, thit
C thev were obliged to ride through field* for miles to
r gether, and lome places where paths had been (hove
led, the snow on both fides nf the road was as high
' as their heads when on their horles. Tnev aifo ob
fcrved in leveral inftsuces the snow waS so banked a j
gainlt different hoafes, that it was with great diffccul- ,
ty the inhabitants could grt out, unti. they dug 1
under the banks, and left thel snow pendant above their
heads. A fewil.ltaiiees us a limilar naiu:e occurred
in this town and the vicinity.
BOSTON, November 37,
FEDERAL REPRESENT vVIVES.
f
1 PLEASING INFORMATION.
Hon. Mr. Parker arrind lad evening,
1 on his way to Philadelphia, and fays, the
following (late of votes in the First Eaftcrn
: DitlriA may be relied on as correft :
Dearborn Lee Dtimmer
r County of Lincoln, 4.02 328 93
- County'of Hancock, 62 4.18 00
; . 464 746 93
So that Mr. Lee if eleiled by a hand
some majority without the county of Wa(h
ington, in which Mr. Lte has all the votes,
but the number not known,
Thns the (hrewd calculations ®f the
Chronicieare blalled again.
SAVANNAH, November 18.
It is with pleasure we announce thf arri
val of our coall of the Armed Brig Eagle,
commanded by Captain Hugh Campbell.
She faiied from Hampton Roads on the 4th
itill. and was spoken with by Capt Sinkins
from R odc-Iflandon the 9th. She mounts
16 lix-p junders, has 70 men, and is inten
ded to afllft in the proteiftion of our coall.
Printing Work,
Of Every Kind,
EXECUTED AT THE SHORTEST
NOTICE,
At the Office of the Gazette of the
United States,
oa. 13. 'ltf-
WRAPPING PAPER.
FOR SALE, ftRY CHEAP,
A ©uantity of printed Papur, l'uitable fur
Grocers, Tobacconilts, &c. Enquire of the
Printer,
nov 20 4*
FOR SALE,
' The time of a Negro Girl, 12
yea * old, has »6 years to fcrvc.—She is as stout as
or.t of 16 \cars of age, hcalihv* ioduflriou* and capa
ble of doing every houfch-jiti work. For lerrpg ap
ply
no 228, fou'h SecondJlrect.
o;v. t8 eoiif
!-■ <Sa;cttc. !
i ___
PHILADELPHIA,
J TUESDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 4.
The fallowing introJnSipn to the ExlraS from
Mr. Abrrcrombie's Sermon, was omitted j
through hafle, in yefiirJay's Gazette.
I mr. r. N.so,
Finding that the feraion lately preached
by tin Rev. Mr: A. on the opening of the
| Epifcopa! Churches has been mentioned
; with eonfiderable commendation, end a de
I fire txprefled by many to fee the latter part
jof it printed—l have procured it from the
: author, who facrificing his own judgment to
1 the solicitation of his friends has permitted
me to tranferibe it for your Gazette.
Friday, Nov. 30. M.
A country jacobin insinuates that Joe
Thomas has got i captaincy in the,army.
I hus do these caitiff) evince their contempt
for one of the moll important inftimtions of
this country, and thus wantonly insult the
whole body of American officers.
A candidate for congreft at the' Sout
hward, declaims with great force on th- de
cided oppotition he is going to shew, in de
fence of our liberti s, against England,
France or any other porjer whatever. This
patiiotifm is certainly of an exceptionable
kind ; tor in the words of Hudibras, it
may be alked 1
" Have wc not enemies plus satis,
" Who erne e: anguc pejus hate u* ?"
The people of America will crafc to wonder
at the increased vilification heaped cn Gren-
Britain from theprtft f the Aurora, when they
learn tbat the present " doer" of that infamous
paper is a miscreant, whole ennduft, at ,i Print
er, inthe EjJKXhdies had been such astocallf-r
the niofl rigorous interpufitioi of the govern
ment —
Lord Cornwaliis found it Oeceflaty to put the
Jorger " Jalper D wight" in Irons wuh an in
tention of to his account in En
gland—from this iituation the culprit contrived
to ei'cape to this country —
Does n«»t the treaty wit ] Great Bri- I
tain provide for surrendering Fugitives from
justice ? Or did the vagabond arrive in Ameri
ca anterior to this falntary provision ?
Dulnefs is not the less obnoxious for its great
er or smaller quantity. Of this our lacobin ga
zettes are firiking evidences. From the Farthing
Post, to thr Daily Royal, they are alike insipid
and disgusting. Their wit is of the drum kind,
flat at both ends, and as to any thing else, a
man might as well a Powder House in
Hell as for one spark of fenie, honesty or truth
in their gazettes.
Poets and Orators are licensed ih their extra
vagancies. This circumftancefurnilhes an apol
ogy for the declaration made to the President by
his excellency the Governor ; viz. " that not on
ly the Officers of the militia, but every individ
ual of the State of Pennsylvania, were ready to
defend with their lives the present adminiitra
tion of the Fediral government."—This was
a b Id hyperbole.
The insolent Barras, in the noon tide of
his fortune, vaunted of the esteem in which
France was held by her allirs. " France,
firing in the esteem of her allies," said he,
»« surrounded by a crowd of victories," See.
—This ufurper looked only on
one fide of the mirror. A little penetration
j would have suggested to him, that the time
' mijfht (as it has) some, wheti France, ilrong
j ly detelled by her allies, and surrounded by
a crowd of defeats, mud condescendingly
(loop to the very governments (he had moll
defpifci, insulted and abused.
How rnufl Mr. H -D-jil of St. Domingo
"nave itared when he recei»ed ToufTaiut's man
date to take hirsfelf and his DireiWial Banditti
from the Iftand at a very fliort and unqualified
notice !
It would seem that the retribution of their
crimes is fait overtaking thele riwmfters of in
iquity io every part of the worl —Nor do we
thiak it requires the gift of divination to pre
difl their comp etc overthrew before the end of
the present century, il'li-tlglj Io near its clufe.
The atrocious conduit of the jacobin
governor Jackson towards the federal prin
ter M'Millan, would alone have been luf
(icient to Ihew the despotic difpoGtion of
our opposition chiefs, if such proof were
wanting to evince that all bawliijj demo
crats have ever become tyrants, when in
office.
Before out marine eftablilhment had com
menced, many said it was a premature bu- '
finefi ; but now, this versatile this ever
changing multitttJe fay " we have been tar
dy in our naval preparations."
The Jacobins, in their pointless malice,
are iiiCffFantly railing at ellablifhments, the
i ifrodudlion of which their own vices and
mifconduit alone render ind fpenfable tq
the fecuricy of the government. Thus a
navy, a (landing army, or any other inftr
tutioh which is calculated to strengthen the
arms of legal authority, and raise it above
ttte daring efforts of faftion, are called
the " inftrnmer.ts of tyranny" or " the i
dol of defpnts."—-Let the wretches relfw
quilhtheirdia >olicalprrjefls,& peaceablyfub
felVcthc laws, or it will become the wifli of
every good citizen to fee an eltablifhedfor
midable regular militi 1, competent to over
awe or fubduc them,
It is now univerfall*' conftfled that we
oujjlit to have armed in deforce of our com
merce twelve months sooner than wc did ;
and as it is demonllrated by a'flual lolTes
tint 6 to 8 .nillions might thus have escaped
from French piracic#. our Federal Execu
tive are ju.lly entitled to additional efleerr.
for the forclight snd prudence they evin
ced although over .ruled by the folly or ig
norance cf their numerous opponents.
- Agreeably to a j< ttrßfrtflt, tlie
t«r« of Pennfylvana,. tin's were to hat<r
cofr'mti.crd their Tfliort in this u'tv. A
Ciiornm appearing in neither liciifc rr*
fpecHft-ly adjourned till thi» afternoon, tl.r.e
o'clock.
Tn the House of Representatives of the
United States, this day, forty nine* mem•
hers only appeared. It requiring five more
to conil'tute a quorum, the house adjourned
f I till to morrow morning, at eleven o'clock.
The Se>ate met. and adjourned wi hout
farming a quorum.
CO MM U.VIC A TIONS.
MR. FENNO,
. IN your Gazette I have noted that long
expeftcd event, the expuliion of the French .
agents from St. Domingo, with much filea
fure. The many robberies which have
been committed by Santhonax ai d his
French fucceflors form a striking contralt
with the honorable conduit of the black
chief Touffsint, now fovern'gn lord of St.
Domingo, and whatever may be the form
of the new government for that iflaiid, it
mini at all events be better than the last.
If the British government fliould join with
un in our wishes for the Indep ndence of St.
Domingi), it will be fortunate for both
countries, and humble the vanity of the.
Cinque 1 et?s more than the defeat of admi
ral ' tiruyes •—Add to this tl» fe commer
cial profpedts which nee i no comment.
MERCaTOR-
M(. FENNO,
IN approbation of that spirit with wh'oh vou
have volunteered in your enquiry into the pro.
of that horrid plot forming in tli.fi Citv»
under the name of Untied bij)mcn »gain/i
our lav f but properties nn l the government of
our c "jntry, I refer you to an iteqi hi tV.eir
gazette, the .Aurora, of this morning, where a
bold villain exp efTes his admiration, that the
edit/ir of a New-York paper. Mr. Snowden,
fnould liare to ("peak in oppnfitien tn our nic
ruic-9, the French, " while ther.e are fr- m t<u'n
t] to thirty thou/and United Irishmen in Ame
rica." . LOOK our.
*
MARRIED—Or Wcdnefdaycv ening bv the
Rev. Mr. Abercrombie, Capt. Wm. Brown,
of this cjty, to Miss Ann Siddons of Ches
ter.
(Bmttt Marine %ift.
Ship Sally, Gelfton, blown out of the
Delaware on the 21 ft ult. is afltore on the
Horfeflioe, in Chcfapeak hay, with fcveral
feet water in her hold—two lighters lay a
loig fide h?r on Wedncfday, for the pur
pose of receivisg part of her cargo.
I be Neptune, Douglas, and Lexington
from London to this port, were in the
Downs the j Bth Sept. last.
The Eagle from Marseilles, ship S'.vifc
Packet, from Savannah and the T.ady Wafli
ington, Latimere, from TenerifFe. are be
low.
New ITork December 3.
ARRIVED,
Brig Governor Hamilton, Cobb. B-t ba 'of
Nancy, Chace, Tuiks
Friends, Prin, Malt i iq ue
Sloop Sa'.ly and Mars, Judah, N^vis
FOR SAVANNAH,
The fast sailing and well
tfgl&ar accommo ate J Ship
SIS! S W IFT-P ACKET,
Patrice G wben mafler.
•1 onlUnt tracer, wil' jil in a few :.ivs.—
For freight or pafiaee pp'v to he mall(r on
board, or N. iy j "RAZIEH,
No. 95, South Front (treet.
dec 4 dtw
FOR SALE,
Fifty Acres of Good Land,
, Lying ju Gloucester County^*
Slate of Ken-. 'Jerffy,
acres of which a,e
Wood'and, the reit, Meadow. riiii
land ties about half a mile from I iuber-Cre«k,
and two miles fr»m the river Delaware, the
eounty road passing through i", and th* great
road only two miles cliflanr. For terms apply
to, PATRICK DOOM ERTY,
Sign of the Rainbow, in Sbippen,
between Second and Th:r,! firsts.
d?c 4 P •n * v
W A N T E D.
Convenient Lodgings, for an elderly
Lady, in a refpeflable privnte family, wherj
there are 110 ehildren. Enquire at thin office.
4 dm
WANTED
AN Apprentice tn the Paper-making Business
a hoy a'>out the age of 10 to 13 would bt; prefer
red. Enquire of the Printer.
deccmber 4 jt
> _
ADVERTISEMENT.
Todd & 4ott
Of the City of Philadelphia, Merchints, having
affifjned over their ess- -51 s, real, j irfuna!. and
miied, to the faMcribers for the benefit of all
their Creditors—
Notice is hereby Given,
I'O all perfjis who are indebted to the fjid
eflate, that they are required to make im
mediate payment of their rdpcft.ve accounts to
i-ithcr of th- adignees, in failure whereof, legal
ntealure» will he taken for th" recovery of such
debU as ape nrt discharged without delay.
John IVnddington ~l
'John Rhodes > AfF.gnecs.|
John Allen. J
nov. a 6 tu.th&fatFi
ALL PERSONS,
HAVING demands a ainfl tie Fllate of
Hf nr Y Sch .1 fff R, Heieifed, lateofthe
City of Philadelphia. Mahler and Shopkeeper
pre requested to their acrnurts properly
iiithenticated and ail perfi r:» irdebte t to (a d
Eflate ars defirec! to make ffeedy p yment to
CASPAR K . MAINE*', 1 . ,
FREDERICK GAUI, j Jtrpfon.
nth tro. 13I I
rat en t Ploughs,
r j Cbe Tjld f'n- cash by Joseph Jaltet" at AtlTon
-1- Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry —Jona'ban
Harker, Woodbury—and Jefie Evans, Lumber
ton, Thufe who have tifed them give them the
preference ti' any other kind, as tkey equire
lefstcam, biem the gronnd batter, ire kept in
order « leln evpence and are fold at a cheaper
rate —the plan is much Amplified and ccnlillsof
but one piece of cast iron, with the handles and
beam of wool; they may belxed with wrought
lays and coulters to be pot on with screws and
taken off at pleasure
Patent rights for vending with inftrntfions f<.*
making them may be had by applying to John
Newbold, or the fubferiber No. i\z North
Front-flreet.
Who has for Salei
Or to Lease for a firm oj Y'ats,
A number ot valuable trae*« ot Land, well
situated for Mill', Iron »Vorksor Farms, most
ly impro»-ed, lying chiefly in the c utitv of H4in»
tingdou stats of Pennfylvsnia. Those who may
incline to view tkem will plenfe to apply to
John Canan esq. near Huntingdon.
Charles Nets/bold.
Wv '7 jawtf
1 be Creditors of the bubjcriber
AR» HtREBY HOTirir.n,
"pHA'f be has applied to the Court of Com
i map Fie is ot Montgomery county forthe
benefit of the a<sl of Assembly, pafied the 4th ]*
day ol A)HI lafi, entr.leil "an ail providing
t'r t the pei frn of a debtor (hall not be liable to 1 ,
in.,:nf 1-inent for debt af'cr delivering vp his, ,
flite in' lor benefit of bis creditors, enlefs ha 1
) arii been guibv rtf fraud or embezzlement" !
Jiul ibe judges of the said court have a|ipointed '
Monday the tenth dar of Decembtr next at ten .
n'c! rk i.i the fyren'oon at Norritlown in the
county for a hearing < I I'.im and his j
credit'rs. GEORGE HIRST.
nov T7 law (it iW j
Ephraim Clark,
CLOCK £s? WATCH MAKER, \
Corner of Front and Market Oreets, Philadelphia,' d
HAS JL'ST KT'CEIVtiI),
"IJ Y the different arrivals, a large fupfdj of Clock '
j) and Watch mak<rs and Silver Smiths Tools,
files and materials,
c INSISTING OF
Rowling Mill?; large and/mall Bench and Hand
Vice-, 'l'urnbrncle., Plyers, Sliding Tongs, Era- -■
ces and Bit's, Grooving tools, Saws, Scratch birilh- j
e-, Blow pipes. Screw and Draw plate*,large and v
fmail Hamn.is, Clock dials, <a(l liraf. Bells, ior
ged w.»rk aod pinions, Knery, Rotten ilt>nr, Pu
mice fione, Borax, Spel'er Sorder, Brats, SUel and 1
Iron wire, fluct Braii, main springs ani glafl'es c
cold, gilt, and ilrel chains, seal. and key*,&c.&c.
C.-j* Clocks and Watches carefully repaired
iov. 21 f
Charles Campbell, ,
W AT C H-M A K R R.
HAS removed to the Miop formerly occupied
hv Mr. "foh.i ll'ood. No. 55. corner of
Front and Chel'iiut-ftreets ; where he will thank
fully rece've ar.il execute orders with neatness
and dispatch
HE I!.\S CONSTANTLY ON II^ND,
A Neat a:.d Large AfFbrtment of
Clocks cis Watches.
W A N I F. D, j
A JOURNErMAN;
ff 0
• re or two Apprentices of refpeiTll
blc parCfiH.
FOR SJLF.
A large quantity of Glaffes
li'bclefale anil Retail.
nov 74 3*wtf
The time of an Attive "
BLA CK BO Y,
WHO is ahowt sixteen years old, and has five '
years tr» fcrvc, to be disposed of He is
weH acquainted with the of u farm, and J
handy at cookirg or waiting in the heufe. En- 1
quire at the of thij Gazette. f
nov. 7A foiw 1
— \
Bank of the United States ;
November ig, 1778. \
NOTICE,
' j I KE STOCKHOLDERS of the Bank of the 1
L U 1 ked S;ates arc informed, that according to c
•■he Sritite of Incorporate n,a GcneralEleilion for i
twer.ty-fivt Oirtsftors will he held at the Bank of f
the United Stites. in the City of Philadelphia, 011 f
Monday, the ;th of January next, at 100' clock in v
the forenoon- t
n'l pursuant to ihe eleventh fciSlion of the bye h
laws, the ot< ckholiers of the laid Bank are also r
notified to allem'ile in general meeting, at the 11
lame pl ace, on T.uefday, the Bth of January next, t!
It 6 o'clock in'h; evr iing. v
(i. Simpson, Cashier.
Second Fundamental Article. a
:;ot more than three fourths ef theDiieclors in ii
offi-., cxc'.ufivc of the Prefidcnt, Ihall be eligible
lur tbe ucxi riiluing year, but the Dire&or who
(ba'l he Prefidcnt at tft< time of an may
alwiys be re-eleilcd. ,
nivembcriA m.tE
WILLIAM M'DO U G ALL,
at hts store,
No. 134, Market Street,
Hi» JUST OPENED, in addition to hit for- I
p-.cr Hock, a v.ry cxtenfivc alfortment of
\Ten's, WonuuV, and Cliil ren's Hats, and all
.;in<is ot Stockings—particularly a quantity of A
b r;!.c<*nkmt Hole, fiiitable for the present season.
nov, 13 eorm
Notice is hereby Given, c
application will he made at the Trej-
L furv of the United States for the renewal 3
of the folio«'itiK certificates of Six per Cents, 1
funded debt —(landing in the name of Robert a
i'~ilf)v of Calcutta in Bencal, Surgeon in the , '
.'ci vicc of lln honorable United Company of 1 £
merchants of England trading'to the Eafl-In
i.ies, which were loft from onboard the SwaU
capt Kidd, from Falmouth to New
k. Polls. Cts.
No 10,444, Reg. office 14th Dee, -
one certificate for l)j; 33 A
No 10,478, Reg office 17lh Dec.
179,3, one Certificate for 1959 50 1
Ellijlon cs* Jebn Perot.
nov todfuv f
Whereas the certiticate of two a
flares of the Bank of the United States in the j|
Jme of Scmitel sl»i9(j, of London, banker,
No 3 181, iff ied in lieu of 1159.1, 11594. were l;
foru'irdjfd from London by the Britilh packet
Cmjntcf , of LeiceP.er, capt. Dodd, bound for
\>w-Ynik, which packet was captured by the
French, and the faiH ceriiftcate 101 l ; and for the
renewal of vhich. application is made at said -J
Bank, and all jictfans concerned are delircd to
iate notice.
CLEMENT BIDDf.E. "
rhila. Q&- 1798. eo6w
Imp;> rt t r>
- <: tie brig E/iz i, cipf. Peter/on, from
, Leghosx,
■) A SMALL CfJAtfTIT? OV THS FOLLfrWltfO AR
TICLE',,
P Bologna crape
, Cinihruks afTorted
1 Silk flocking*
r Fans
f a f«-w fancy ribbons
Cotton blankets &c. See. manufactured ar
. J /iicca
( Pots and sticks of pomatum
Wash-balls, Bze.
a few jars Gorgona anchovies ]
a fp.iall aflortraentof Drugs, frc.
' And in the Louisa, capt. Kean,from
Bordeaux,
£c caf..'s, eontair.irg 2 dozen each, ]
Old Irish Claret,
of a superior quality, '
40 dozen old Sauturne Wine,
of a superior quality.
FOR SALE BY
James Latimer, jr.
Nov. 10 fd "v
Canal Lottery, No. 11. 1
Jl ill re-commence in the course of
the prefnt month.
THICKETS to be had Eight Do'lars each,at
WILLIAM BLACKBURN's Lottery '
| Jll( l Brokers office, No. 64 South Second-street,
j where check hooks are kept for regi/lering :.nd \
| examination of Tickets in the above, City ol
j VVafliingtan and Patterl'ufr L'Jttei ie«, &c.
Stjti or THE Wheel,
Oneprizeof 10,000 dollars 10,000
j '' ve 4)0-® 10,000
' J.OOO 4,000
Two j,oco a,ooo
i Tcn 500 5,c0 7
1 wenty-leven ;oo Si4DO 1
With 1 full proportion of the one hundred 1
! -nd of the fifty d-illar prizes—Tl:e Lottery i; 1
m ire than two thirds drawn arid above 15,300
dollars richer than at the commencement.
£3* Note, the Uufinefj of a Broker duly at
tended to i-n all its branches.
tu.fr. t .
Dobbin & Roberts, °
TAT LOR S, P
RESPKCTFULLY inform theirCuftomers, and 11
the Public in gin.rat, that they have rcaio- _
ved from No. 114, Oh-fnut Street, to
No. 30, South Fourth Street;
Where orders in their line will be thankiully re
ceived and diligently atti>nd£J to. F
_ nsvember 15 mw&f, i w "5
R. TAYLOR, h J
MUSIC PROFESSOR, ( u
NO." 96, NORTH IiXTU-tTJIET, "1
RESPECTFULLY informs the Public that ni
he continues to teach Ladies the Piano tc
Forte as usual. h<
" Nov. 6. tuthsa
Notice is hereby given,
THAT application will be mad* to the trcafury f
of the United States for the renewal of the follow
ing: certificates of fix per cents, funded debts, ft and- V ~
in the namrc of Jane GaLriclle Ri^aud y of Geneva,
which were loft from on hoard the Swallow Pack
et, Capt. Kidd, from Falmouth to New-Yoik.
Dolls.
No. 3195. Reg. office 19thMay *95, iccrf. for 100 c
13,181. do. 14th do. do. 1 do. for 3500 j
Willings if} Francis.
October ?4, eod6w .
— , ■ ■ I ! A
Forty Dollars Re wad th
foil APPREHENDING
A GENTLEMAN NEGRO,
BY name Georoe or Gforoe Parker, the
pro; erty of the fubferiber, who ha' thought
proper on th' night of the 114 inft. to elope from
his matter without ary provocation or jutt cause ;
he was formerly the property of Bcckwith Butler, r
esq. nnl lived a considerable time with
Pottcnger.whokcpt tavern in Frederickburg,having
seen much company and travelled with several 110
gentlemen through different parts of this state, he
ismnch known. It is therefore conjectured he
will pu(h for fame of the northern cities or towns °. u
as liehas difcovcredan svcrfion uxplantation work,
though he may perhaps have crolTed the ridge to
where he has a brother belonging to major Butler, ha
This fellow is about five feet seven inches high, frc
well proportioned and walks afiive and feriik, his
countenance if open and agreeable enough when pa
rn good humour ;he can hardly be furpaft in an
Ihrewdiufs, and is a very capable waiting-man, hi]
house servant, barber, &c. To drfcribe his dress f e ,
would be useless.as he possessed a variety of clothes,
thrugh when dressed lately, he wore a green roat
bound witli white ferreting and fpottei: jacket and
reeches. Whoever brings him home or fecure
n goal in this or any other ftatc the said slav», so
that I may got him again, Ihall have the above re-
Mard - ALEXANDER VASS.
Falmouth Oil. J3, 1798.
N. B.—Matters of veffelsand Stage Drivers
are requelted to beware of fuflering said fellow to
impnfe on them by afTtfting his escape. A. V.
Novmber 3 w&f. 4 iv
7 his Day Publijhed, pi
And for sale at the Office of the Editor, No.
119 Chrfnut-ftrett, Fi
f Price \-%th of a Dollar, J
AN ORATION, E 5
Pronounced July 4, 1798,
At therequefl of the Inhab;tanu of the Towr of
BOSTON, in comwemeration of the anni- pi
verfary of American Independence. j; (
By JaitAß Qyrrrbr. Gi
* " The inroads upon our public liberty, call
for reparation—The wrongs we havefnltainec;, Di
call for—Justice. That Reparation and tint Rl
Juftiee, may yet be obtained, by Union, Spirit, Sv
and Fir>nie:s. But to divide and conquer was R(
the maxim of the Devil in the gsrden of F.den,
and to disunite ami enslave hath been the pi inci- Sl '
pie of all his votaries from that period to the
| present."
otservaiiens on the Boston Port-Bill, 78 L<
fy the late y. Quincy, jun.
augufl 11
. j_ :. .•as— t Jo
This Day is Publilhed, n!
AND FOR SALE BY J. rT. N NO, t lg,C HES N U T-» i 111,
AN ADDRESS Bc
1o the People of Maryland, v*
ON the origin, progress and preiest ftat£ of
French aggrcllion, with a ikctch of the infamous
attempts t« degrade the Government of the United
States, and some reflection son the late proceedings ~~
in Congrels; written the last or April in the pre
sent year, by a Member of the Honle of Reprefen-
S june 11
NOTICE.7
ALL perrons who have any demands againtt
the estate of the late Willi.m Cliftov,
d ceased.and who have rot already produced their
th. ir accounts, nre rcquedad to scad them to the
fubferiber at no 171, north feeonJ flreet
F.LIZABF.TH TUCKER, Adm'x
Philadelphia, hov. l>, J 798 ni&th 4 w
//- V
I PLANS
For pdjin-. tit of a tribute h Fran:?,
Arc now for falc ac William Young's Book
and Stationary ftorc. (his* cts.
D' trcatifson and
' re arms, and artillery (crvice, plate#, 4
Mallrr's fii Id engineer with 1 75
Attack an<J defence, fhc 4th edition en*
larjject Ky Lardman, with a new me
thod cf mining, platrs .>
Treatireof artillery, tb which i- added a
thet ry of Giiß-powder, applied to fire
arsns v i 74
Supplement, containing the true projcA
ilc, '• 2
1/ArtiHecie Raifoncic, par le Blond, 3
torn-:, plinchcs
'/ Fheor ie 4? 11 pruefre parM a z eroy, pi a n ches 3
lleid's prcfeut i'/ftern of military dilcipline
London printed, 179?, 1
Retrtjlati.-ns lor the order and dilcipline of
the troops ofthw United States
General White's military fyftcm for the
Now Jeif y cavalry 33
•) The Ann ricati trooper's pocket cmpa
nionhy Parifet a 3
A treatifeonthcf new fvvord exercif- *5
Noiu in the Press,
Articles of War—Steuben'* tepjdationt wnh.
plates, exhibiting the manual exercise.
Nov. 23
v Philadelphia, N vernier 2-6, 1798.
ALL perl'ons dtfirousof furnifliiag by
rations nf proviGons, ltraw au»i fuel, for ill
the troops, which now an, or liereafi 1 may be
at any or ev ry (lation, pod, encan pmewt, re
l cruiting rendezvous or elsewhere in the (late of
Penrfylvai.ia, i< r and during the year 1799. cx
-1 cept at Prefqu' Isle, I.a Bceuif, Fort Franklm and
Pittfburg—wili be pleated to f*nd in their propo
sal? under scaled covers, on or before the 2Cth of
5 next month, December, to
TENCH FRANCIS. Purveyor.
I
the ration to consist of
I 1-4 pound of beef or 3 4 of a pound oJ pork
18 ounces of bread or. flour ►
I gill of rum, brandy or yduflcsy.
2 quart* of fait
4 (jU'irts of vintgar C For cvcry , c 0 rations.
4 pDUnds ol soap f
1 i-2lb. candies. J
Am may at their next fellion make al- j
tcrations in the quantity of ion-c of t'ne compo
nent partu of this ratior —it is requelled of those
who rcay <.!r;r proposals to name the price of each
part, which will l'erxeto govern in cafe oi dinii
nurion or increase.
no- tn.w&'h tioD
Mrs. spurrier,
MIDWIFE,
From the cityof London lying-in Hospital, 3
EMfiK.ACE> this opportunity ot returning lier
lincere thanks to those lidies whom she has
had the honor to attend, and moil rrfpectfully in- 4
forms them and her oiher friends thai fhc lias re- 1
moved to sou h £ixth flreet two doors from Chef
nut ftrec% oppoAtv Cengrtfs Hall, where she flat
ters hcrfelf hy careful attemW to the duties of
her profeflion to merit th.'ir future favors,
nov 28
' AL " 1
TTAVING claims againfl the Estate of
4- SUS ANN AH LOCkr/IR, deccafed, are 1
requested t > present their refpe<9ive accounts to
NATHAN A. SMITH, 1 . . 1
( / a ">S
JOHN DORSET, ] ± xvc « tors -
A LEASE OF THE HOUSE
Lately occupied bv Sufr.nnab Lockyer, together 1
with THE STOCK OF GOODS, 1
Are to be dilpofird of i ime will be given for
tile latter on uu-t.ncepiionable fecuritv. 3
110 v 9 .u\v6w '
George Davis's
LAW-800 KSTO RE, 1
N'o. 31 9HI GH Si RF.ET, 1
Latest London Of Irish Editions.
George davis's f<ii importation is now J
arranged, of which a more capital colltc- _
tion he believes was never offered for falc either
:n this City, London or Dublin It combines
almost every book in,with several valuable books
out of print. Davis's confining l itnfelf to Ibe r
sale of Law-Bosks only, it will appear obvious
to profefTional Gentlemen, the advantages they c
have both in feleiflion and price by purcliafing c
from him.
Ilis Catalogues being ready, gentlemen will
particularly oblige him by calling for them—
and to those reliding at a diflance, by fovoring
him with their address (post-paid) fhall be
sent.
. nov ft 6 mStthim
Smith & Rodman,
No. 49, South Front street. .
Have jujl received per the William Pent, and '
Jaiie,_/)-c<OT Lcndon, Dianartn*/Thomas n
from LiysKPooL, and Kingston, "
from Hull, . "
A LARGE iS GENERAL ASSORTMENT OF
DRY GOODS,
AMONG WHICH ARC
Plain, twill'd and striped Crapes
Coatings Pliiu&ftriped Wildborci
Fine white and red Welfb, Wotlled, Yarn & Couon '
Flannels | Hole 1
Do. yellow an.l scarlet do. Icn a "d Hoys Woollen £
Superfine and low price.' Nilu .e"'
J-4, 6-4, ;- 4l cloths of lriih D° w - r;
all colors las s '■
Plains and Halfthicks 3"+ b r °wn Irish Linen
Forest and Hunter Cloths 9 Bnwhi'c 8 n whi ' c and hruwn ' r_
o™ Red Cmj- £
R ose, Point and DufiiH Printed C»Uitoe.&Chin,
blankets [zri
Superfine London Caifi. tinted Linen and bor
meres of the newest ani 1 der'd Ha. dkfrebitfs s
mod falhionablc colors Cotioncc t allicpeChecks
Low priced Yorkshire do. l T hread tdjinqs LaCe-
Plain and flriped Calli- NI, n 's Coavcr Ciloves
mancoes (Pins in (mall calri
Joan Spinnings & Tyrants'" o, . land T »pe»aHol,bin 4
Rattinctts dc Shal oons I l hlckr "» '"d Corduroys
Norwich Cainblets, for ," !U '"8 a ", d fan cy Cord,
Clocks j Velvets and Velvcitcent
Bombazetts and Black B ' ° livt Couon *
With a variety of other Article, on hand, fo r
lale oil themoft realonable trims for cash
or the usual credit.
- N ° V 6 tn,thgcfa.,f -
JtiJl Imported,
A quantity of falt-petre, refined
Gun powder. F and double fealcd battle 1
Cannon, 4 and 6 pounders •*
London porter and Burton Beer al
IVluliarJ squares, 4 ounces tc
Bert Durham muJlard
r^'."®' lair,!l to drawback
All of which will be fold on moderate terms br
HENj,r DA VIES, junr.
• M« south Second flrcct, eppofite the
city tavern. a
nov. a ...
I * mw&f.i/
B.,'d of il>; Unlud, Stales.
.YovemSer 14, 17
NOTICE H 'I CREST GIVEN,
rpuJT application will be made at the l rea-
X furv of the ITuittd States for the rer-ewal
cf a Certificate of Six perCent Funded Debt.
No. 15. <4B; for 18,781 dollars, 33 cents, dited
,l\egiQei'a Office, January Bth, 1798, iflWd 'U
the nat he 5 of 11miatn l\ tllihk, iUti.
Nicholas & Jacob Van Ffufborjl Lf Hubbard,
1 Trailers, lor timdry m"r.ey lenders in Amster
dam; which svasforwarded the nth <>f Janua
ry, I7';S» undercover to Nicholas GMks, elq.
and lnft hy the capture of the fKiip Columbus,
captain Skiniier,troni i\ T 01 k torArollerd tnri
G. Simp/on, cajh 7 r.
r.ov r 4 i»w6w
'The Creditors
Of William Steedman and John Smith, or
I lie County of Northum'. ;s4and. in the
State of Pennsylvania, lately trading un
der the Firm of
Steedman &■ Smith,
WILL TAKE NOTICE, that the suhfcriber»
have made application to the judgts ol the
Court of Common Pleas for the County of Nor
thumberland aforcfaid.fof he benefit ol the ieveral
laws of the State of paffed far tl'e
rellefof ir.folvont Debtors, and that the said Court
hath appointed the Thirtieth day of November
next, being the Friday of the Court of Common
Pleas, to
the County of .Northumberland, at which time and
place you may attend if von think proper.
WILLIAM STEEDMAN.
JOHN SMITH.
Northumberland, November i, 1798.
t'.'t'vrmlier 7 law
To the Creditors
Of WiU'm M'Clelland, of Northumberland
County, in the.Statr: of Pennsylvania.
TAKE NOTICE,
r "T , HAT I have applied to the Judges ofthc Court
J, ol Common Pleas, in and for the County of
Northun!berland,for the benefit oT the several laws I
t> f Pennsylvania, palled for the relief ol Inlolvent
Debtors; and the Judges of the faidCourt haveap
pointed the Thirtieth day of November infl. it be
ing th« Friday of the court of CooUiior VI-'as for
the County of Northumberland, to heai me and ,
my Creditor* at the Court House in Sunbury, at
which time and place my Creditors may attend if I
they think proper.
Wm. Mc. CLELAIfD. I
Northumberland, November i, 1798. j
Bovcmbcr?. iaw^w
JffiTUE .
SAMUEL RICHARDET, informs the-G-ntle- 1
men Suhfcrihers, that the EXCHANGE \
is opened for their rccep.ion ; and the CITY
'TAVERN, for Gentlemen and Travellers— I
Last Spring added an addition of twelve Bed ]
Chambers to the fide building, which rnakrs it i
perfeclly convenient.
Hovember 6 taw ;
Hori'es to Winter. I
HORSIiS will be taken in to winter at P«o-
srscT Hill, at the iz Mils Stone, on the
Brilled road ; they will be well fed with clover
and timothy hay, well littered and cleaned, and
will also have a hirgii field to cxcrcife themfelvcs '
111 when the Weather is good.—Enquire of Mr. I
William JicH, merchant, Watet ilreet, or on the '
prtmifes. 1
Nov. 7 wf tf '
J AMES k RICHARD SMITH 7 j
HAVE this day returned from the country to
their STORE, No. 54, South Fiojit-fireet,
where they heve for fa le, as usual, a large and ge
neral aflortment of European and East-India
DRY GOODS i
rooil oi whi.h have now an jvti) 553"afe~Hndiiig,
from Oie-Ttiffcrcrt veflcU, from Hamburgh, Lon
don, Liverpool and Hull. '
Their Customers by applying will find almost
every article generally imported, and at as taw
prices for calh or credit,as they can be had ell'e
whcrc.
N. B. A few Cases of Nurenbergh l OYS, a
conligdmtnt, tobe fold by the csffe only. '
Philadelphia, Nov. 1, 1798. <Jtf r
Millenery Room, i
Nn. 136, Marht Street. &
FHRKE or four young women who arc well ac
quainted with the Millenery bufincfg, and
can bring good recommendations may be employ
ed 1 y applying as above to
D. CHRYSTAL. '
nov. 16 £ |
— : i
Engliilii wrought Nails.
Imported it the flips Molly and Diana, from \
LIVER POOL.
400 Calks of Nails,
CONSI > lIN-G of (t(\, Bd, icd, i2oJ, And 4
2od, fli-t joints fuitablc for the foutliern "
market 6d, Bd, iodj izd, and 2od, finedrawn "
I sharps- alio 3, 3, 4, and 6 clouts—fprigs—
j lucks—Supper nails—fhcathing nails,
FOR till. BYi, "
Robert Deni/on, junr.
FOR SALE, n
1o be EXCHANGED for property within thirty C
mi es t4 thec ty,in-tu.irt on gr )uiui-rcnt son ver 0
Several valuable building Lots,
lit J'/jiladel/tbia,
Enquire of William M. Biddle. ne. 147, Chefnut- "
flreet.
Nov. ai j
Fot Sale,at the Stores pi*the Sub- u
feribers, on Walnut ltreet Wharf, X
195 caflts q{ nail? alTortcd c
20 bik-s et (ail canvass, from No. 1 to 8
J J calks yellow ochre
1 r, trtr«s bottled porter, 6 to 14 doz each
Loudon particular > Xjt ,
India market j Madeira Wines
1 enenflfedo. in lioglheads and pip J
Oh-! Port do. in hhds. h
Empty Claret bottles c]
6 cases of Oiugh ail ,s, Dlmitiev, MuflibeU &c. •
alTortcd lor the VVeil-I,,di* market a
4, to, and 9 inch cablesand 10 coils 0 / cordage tl
« nting fiates, ink flat.Js and prellcs n
ao put-cheons Jamaica rum 11
I bale twine * Si
160 bundles ftpui in,, p a p cr f,
april 7 N,t ' Uh Gr # th - I
P 7 tuth&f.tf v
Ironmongery, Cutlery, & c . Ie
SffSgL t Bufi . cft *
• «rr -
to suit the purch ilVr». b Y ' y ' &C - lu ,ots
John Green C? Co.
No. Ntrth Second flreet.
Jronmonsjers
Will find the aho v *c IS
attention. ' TOwo »r their
nov f a 3
i
Imported,
In the Ships Active and Libert /
f r °m ff'Mßi/KGH.
I Ticklenburghs,
• Oznabrigs,
, White Platiilas
Brown Sfilefias
Bretagnes
Heflian Rolls
Brown Ruflia Sheetings
; German Lindfeys.
Bed Ticks, &c.
• For Sale by
GEORGE PENNOCK,
• ao ' roj Market-street.
zo r
. ... ; {
NOTICE.
All Persons indebted to tke Efhte of TVT
tiara Beauchamp, lately decealed, are dfc
fired to make immediate paymentand tbofewh o '
; have any claiir* againit said Estate to ptoduo;
' | their accounts properly attested to
II Sam!. Price, executor:
nny 40 J lm
BEE F; -
1 OF THE IIRST BUALITY,
' And fit for India voyages—For Sa'e Bf
WILLIAM SHEAFF,
No i6!i, High Street,
nov. dtf
for SALE,
By the Subscriber,
Belfaft Canvais, No. r, to 7,
On moderate terms f<«- Cadi or a ihort credit.
Jams Lyle,
South Seventh jireil, -.tear Che/nut.
riov j6 j
Forty Dollars Reward.
J DESERTED,
From a Detachment of Men under my com
mand, at Camp IVeJI Schuylkillviz.
O&bbtr 29.
GEOftGE KELLER, 40 yeart of age, c
feet 6 inches in l.cipkt, dult hair and
complexion, bom in Holland, no Trade, fpeaki
broken Kr.glifh and very talkative, has a dimple
in his chin.
AJovtmber 6, John Murphy, 27 years of
J f? e » S ,cc ' ? 1 inches hi height, grey eyes, dark
hair and complexion, born in Ireland, city of
Diib ki, by trade a liozier.
Jacob Iden, 3.4 years of age, 5 feet 6 inches
high, grey eyes, Tandy hair, frtfh complexion,
born in state of Connecticut, 1
repeated cieferter, by trade a lilackfmith.
iMOVnnber 7. William Collins, 3oyeaisof
a 6 e > 5 fret 6 inches high, sandy hair, Irelh com
plexion. grey eyes, born in Ireland, counly of
Wexford, by trade a Gardner, has worked for
some time about Philadelphia, he is very fond
to hear himfelf Sing.
All the above deserters are very much addift.
cd to hquor, and will take other people's pro
perty if in their power, are artificially marked
on their backs, had on, when they went away,
the»r regimental clothing. Whosoever appre
hends said deserters, (hail receive forty dollan
reward, or tea dollars for each, with all reafoti
abje «xpencee, by applying to me as above,
EDIVARD MILLER, captain
id regiment of Infantry commanding.
nov io f
B-AlrtrASVr-
AQUAN1 II Yto be disposed of, if applied for
immediately, on hoard the KiiD Louiia, lying
Mr. HUMPHREY'S Snip Yard.
novcrriber 10. 5
t ——
ALL PERSONS having any legal demands a
. gamft the eflate <»f William Berkim, decc.iftd|
lat; of the city of Philadelphia, Tavern keeper, are
requefled to furnifli thitr accounts properly au
thenticated, and all persons indebted to said estate
are r.'qjcfiud to make payment to the fubferiber in
Philadelphia.
LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH Adminr.
Ovaobcr 3T(t, 1793.
DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA,TO WIT:
BE IT REMEMBERED,
7 THAT on the twelfth day
V ' / of August, in the twenty-third year of
the Independence of the United States of
America, Benjamin Smith Barton, as the said dif
tridl, hath depofitfd in this office the title of a
book the right whereof he claims as author in the
words following to wit :
" New Views of the Origin of the Tribesand
" Nations of America—By i'enjamin Smith Bar
" ton, M.D.Correspondent Member of the Socie
" ty of the Antiquaries of Scotland, Membtr of
" the American Philosophical Society, Fellow of
" the American Academy of Arts and Sciences of
" Boston, Correfpondidg Member of the MalTs
" rhufetts .Hillorical iicciety, and -gtotejtor of
" Ma:eria Ms'dica, Natural History and Botany
" in the Univcr.'ity of pennfylvania."
!n coi.lcrmity to ilie ad of the Congress of thr
United States, intitled " An ail" for the encourage*
rnsnt of learning fey securing the copies of map.,
charts,and books, to the authors and proprietor,
of such copies during the timesther-in mentionnd.'i
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Cierk, Dirt, of Penn'
November 1, 1798.
A Young Man,
WHO writes a good hand, under/lands,
accounts, and can be well recommendeCu
wants n Situation as Clerk or AfTiftant in a
W holtfale Store, or Coiiutkig-Ticuft. ApplU
cation to be made st this Office.
nov 14 ' S
A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
JOHN A. SHAEFFER, of Philadelphia, who has
for a few years past been in the fouihern Stitet,
has had the effrontery to draw fevcral Bills ofEi
changs oil Timothy Pickering, Ei'q. Secretary of
State, and mylelf.andby that means hssdefraud«i
a number of persons o4 their money, deceiving
them hy an exhibition of letters and papers wi'ih
names affixed of divers plMic chacadteis and repis*
tible merchants highly recommendatory of
iibrffrf ; to one of thi-fe' pSpcis I find my name
fnhfcribid.but I not know the mac ; these ar"
villainous foigc-ricsl To prevent fuether impofitiw.,
I have to requelt tlie printers of Newspapers in thr
United States topubliffi this for the benefit ofthe:r
feilow-citizens. SAMUEL MEREDITH,
Treasurer of lb: United Staff
?'rertton, Nrlti ■ fcfty,">
<Jtlobcr 44, 1798. j
To be Let,
AND POSSESSION GIVEN
ON THE I4TH APRIL K£XT,
THE CITY TAVERN,
Now in the poficfiion of Samuel liichardci.
Apply at this Office,
novamber 13 »