of tf> ta..,D
By John Fenno, N°- ijq Che,fmit Street.
——-
Nvmbes 1689.] PHILADELPHIAWEDNESDAY EVENING, FE2RUAHT 7, 1798. : \/olvmh Xlli.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold Ly WILLIAM WOODHOUSE,
No. 6, south Frent fireft, Philadelphia,
The Young Chemist's Pocket
Companion ;
» CONNECTED WITH
A PORTABLE laboratory .•
CONTAINING
A Pbilofopbical Apparatus, and a freal tmmier of Che
mical Agents ;
By which any per Con may perform an endless va
riety of amusing and intruding Experiments ;
iotend.d t» promote the ckivation of the Sci
ence of Clieraiftry,
Sy jamss rooDßouse, m. d.
fraftjfor of Cbemiftry in the Univtrjiiy <f Pmnfyhra- I
nia, &c.
AT PRESENT ITEKT THIHO THAT IS NOT DE
NOMINATED CHEMISTRY, 13 BUT A SMALL PART
»P A jfSTEM OP NAIOKAt KNO WLEDG E.
PritjlUy vs Air.
TH3 chest conne&ed with this book is one foot
and a half To'njJ, One foot broad, and aboat the
fame h~ight. It consists of two apartments. The
upper one conti'.nstv/eßtytwofeottles filledwiththe
following tells, in as pore aftate as poCble.
1. Sulphuric acid
2. Nitric ecid
3. Muriatic aeid
4- Carb.nicacid
f. Oxalic acid
6. Aclobol of galU .v
' 7. Solution of pot aIH
8. Pot ash in powder
9. Ammoniac
Jo. Solution of the fulph&teof iron
IX. Solution of the sulphate of copper '
12. Solution of mercury in the nitric acid
;i.' Solution of filverin the nitric acitt
Solution of corrosive jfjiblimate
I?. Solution of t£e acetate of lead
16. Solution of arsenic x
17. Solution of the mariatej baryies
13. Sujphate of magn#fia
19. Lime water
to. Pruffiate of lime
41. Pruffiate of pot ash
a' 2. Ammouiate of copper
The lowir apartment is a drawer, in which the
philosophical apparatus is placed, and a numbtr of
agents folded up in paper, as
t. Strips ot paper ftaincd blue "by the tinware
of li.mut ]
». Litmus paper turned red in an acid '
3- A small bag, containing genuine litmus
4. Paper, dyed yellow by turmeric
5. Turmerie paper, turned brown by an alkali '
6. Paper, dyed red by Brazil \yood
7. Brazil wood paper, flained purple by aa al
kali
?. Zinc, in small pieces (
9. Copper, in small pieces , ,
10. red lead «
11. Ilea filings
12. Sulphate of copper
13- Nitrats of copper
* ' M 1 '.f ammoniac
15. Acetate of leaa *
j6. Carbonate of lime
47. Sulphur
, / The Apparatus consists of ,
. • j. Glass syphons
a- a Mow-pipe, of tin, copper, or filvei
3' A magnet"
4. An inflammable air pistol "
j. a ghfs funnel
6. a measure for liquids i
7. a small pestle and mortar
8. Scales and weights
The book is a duodecimo of 56 pages ; contain
ing a method of performing one hundred experi
ments, the greater part of which are made in a
common wine-glafi, and many of which are the
tnofl brilliant which occur in the science of Che- jj
tniflry. An explanation is given of the phenome- |
na which take place in each experiment, a.id a Cm- r<
pie manner is Ljid down of preparing most of the f a
tells when expended.
By means of this Chemical Companion and Port
able Laboratory, gentlemen who have not had an
opportunity of attending an experimental course
of Chemiffry, may imlruA themselves, and per
form, with the greatefl cafe, the celebrated experi
ments of Priestley, Prnuft, Bergman, Scheele,
Alacquer, and the firlt Chemiftsof the age.
January 29 rr.t&t^t
" JUST PUBLISHED
and to be sold by
James Humphreys,
74, North Third-Jlreet, the corner of
Cherry-alley,
one Dollar neatlv bound ar.d lettrred)
QUIRY into the DUTIES of the t
Female Sex.
- THOMAS GISBORNE, a. M. |
Tile following among others are the principal
Subjects of this ufeful Work.
' ■ V Education. Of the mode of intrednc
• j/t n>g Women into general Society. Female
ition and tpiflolary Carrtfpondence,— Ri
Drr, Amusements. £xctfs in the pfirfuit of
ints. Employment of lime. - Confider
antecedent to marriage. Duties of mat*
f Life, with a view to different Situations
umjlances. Parental Duties. Duties
'>' ddleperiod of Life. Duties of the De- J
Life. 8
rom the title ot the foregoing work it
haps he imagined, that the Enquiry it *
•:r and cxclufively directed to the dutie» Sai
ot 1 ) male Sex :It therefore, may not b» i»n-. Pa
■ , or unufefnl, to remark, that many of
the chapters contain matter relative to the con
•jiuift of both sexes, and.particularly those which
relateto thedutiesof Matrimonial Life—Parental 1
Duties —Duties of the Middle Period—and of
the Decline of Life.—And the reader of either
sex that peruses this work with a view of gain
ing inform «tion leading to fubftarttill pleal'ure,
will alTuredly not be disappointed. In faA, k
is a work interesting to the happiness of socie
ty, and must be ufeful wherever read 1 tending Q n
not only to point out in easy and engaging lan
guage, the paths that lead the youthful miad to
happiness and cnaifort, but those a'-fo, in the AIS
walk of which, ite parent ind the middle period
of life (hall find sincere delight, and declioing i
years render themselves comfortable and happy t
with all araund thean. 1
Philad. Jan. 29. <i
~ NOTI CE. " 0
ALL perforts who have anyd.mands against
the eßate of WILLIAM CO At P TON, late
of the city of Philadelphia, deceased, are requeu
ed to furn;fh their accounts, duly atteiled. And
those Who are indebted to tiki estate, are earnest
ly folicitcd to make immediate payment, to either
of the fabferibers.
Ifnac Calhrall, ~j t,lc ,
John Haworth, > Administrator. ; n t
Samuel Wilcox. J £e«
Jirasry 27. J
For Savannah,
SF
The fafl failing- Ship
-et SWIFT PACKET,
(a repilar trader.)
i /Xp- Patrick Gribbhn, mafier,
',:v^S'. W(LL fail on the rcth mft. (ice
3 permitting) ha* handsome acfomrnodations for
paflengtrs. For Freight or PafTjgc, apply to the
",ic- mafler onboard, at Bicklay'a wharf, above Mar
kat-ftreet, or
N. cf J. Frazier,
•i . No. 9c; Sou;h Front-ilrcet.
February 3. §
For Savannah,
•TO. TO SAIL THE FIRST OPENING,
t The fell failing ship
SWIFT PACKET,
Patrick Grieben, Matter,
NOW lying thefirfl wharf below
oot M arket Street—has, handsome ac
the commodations for paffeogers—For freight or paf
>.e fege apply to the Matter on board, or to
N. iff J. Frazer,
No. 95, South Front Street.
IVho have on hand, and for Sale,
Prime Rice, in whole and half tierces, Georgia
anti Carolina Indigo, Molafles in hhd«, Cenenife
wine, &c. ice
December 27
Nigklin & Griffith,
At their Store-on Walnut StreetWbarf—
. HAVE FOR SALt,
58 hhds. of Jama/ca Rum
Madeira Wine in pipes and hhds>
TenerilFe do. in pipes
Old Port do. in hiils.
Imperial Tea in quarters and eighths of chests
Sail Canvili, No. i, to S
Dimities, Ginghams, and Muflinets, in packa
ges suitable for the Weft India market
Nails aflortcd
Black quart bottles
Queens ware in hhds.and crates
Yellow ochre dry in cSflts ;
And at New-York, on board the
ship Diana, from Liverpool, expefled round
re as soon as the navigation 19 open,
Fine Liverpool Salt
Coils
Spanish Brown 1
Venetian Red
ili Purple Brown ~I p ATVTC I
Patent white f PAINTS ,
il- White lead I <
Red lead J i
Calcothar vitriol 1
160 bundles Sheathing paper 1
Seaming twine
Ship Diana, f
Wbfetf&iis* For Sale or Charter. 1
Brig Amazon.
N. B. The late firm of PhilipNioklin iSf Co. /
is now changed to
NICKLIN y GRIFFITH.
January 1. eodtf j
For Amsterdam,' I
SI The Ship "
a jj FARMER, i,
e John M'Cctllom, Maftcr; h
SaJJCn!.. WILL fail in a few days, the P
*KSj^SJJ3Sa=®2g rel t«r part of her cargo being
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffej, or pas- C
e sage, apply to the matter on board, at Walnut
llreet wharf, or to -
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who it Landing, oat of the said Ship, from Bouf-
deaux, and For Sale, a
i- Claret in hhds. c '
P 1
: i White Wine in quarter calks • g (
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fentiniac, t y
Sauterne, > Wines hi cases
Luniile, \ Cv
Prunes in boxes _
novemberi4- <
For Sale or Charter, 7
5 JUki good hope, I
Will carry abeut laoo barrels,and °t
is ready to take in a cargo. For terms nc
I r "® 1 * apply to ar
Pragers Ess Co,
No. 151, South Secood-ftrcct. j» r
•i Who have forfale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Anm, Madeira, Lilfcon, and Teneriffc wine. .
f November 7. dtf.
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Sally Butler, -
Captain Chisholm,
'nevr veflel, with cxcellest
1 -w=i=£fesß» accpmtnocfctions for passengers—
• Sails on the loth of December. For Freight 6r
■ Passage, apply td ROSS IS" SIMSON.
Who t bavi to di/pufe of
A small invoice of GLAUBER &ALTS '
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD. !
novc-mbtr 18. S ;
Just Published,
And 60 be had at the Book-stores of MelTrs. Dob-
son, Campbell, youNG and Ohmrod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Gaufes and Cure of Remitting or Bilisas
Fevers.
To which is amextd, i
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and pra&ice of
different authors: and an APPENDIX, eihib- '
iting intsrefling fails and reflections relative to
the Synochiu Idcroiits, or Yellow Fever, which J
has occaSor.ed so much diftrefsand mortality, ar.
different periods, in several of the fcaport towns I t
of the United StaV.'s of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
flellow of the Philartalphia Collage of Physicians,
and Member of the American Philosophical So
ciety, &c. '
_ ~ " ' this
For Sale, dec t
A complete file ©f the Philadelphia Gazette for
the year 1797. the
Also, several other files of Gazettes, pnliliftied holt
in this city, for the last 9 months of the year 1797.
fistjuire a: no. 94, north front-ftrect Oft
January 14. j
■ • »
. War-ofsce of the United States,
r,
V i Gotayim; Warr.uts for SIM-.oty Lanifc, due
for, ? °il » r " ,C ° yyv**£sa»» ««■«*«*
sice £ s*•&&«>£ of forgid inarunjents.
■ for v , r ' J " u ' e it has been
' the r U^1 a<sv ' f »ble.; cfr-t fll peri'ons, havray'claim,
Jr. f or bo <W '***«. whether in thiir own right, as '
legal rcp.-creatative, or by virtue of iay ir>ftruinetit'
or deed oi" be required to forward their '•
f»fneai»e claim! to the War ©ffice, on or before
:t. the firft day ot J.nuiry 1793 in order chat such i
i claims may be duly cxa.aiiutf,. adjusted and deter
mined upon. ' ■
To fubftactiatefuch claims,'a ftriit obfcrvance ot
the rules heretofore i.Tued from th» War Office wiH
be indispensable; and in addition to what is requir
T" ed b y the said rules, tit certificate of the aaknew
' ledge® enr «f a Deed or Power of Attsrney, mail
T. aJfo set f#lth the place of reGdeiice and occupation
low of the claimant or person maW»g such ackaowiedg
: ac- raent; and when the pi oof of personal knowledge
pal- is by wftnef* or witaelTeg, their place or places of
rtfidenc* must be fct fortk in like manner« . ■
JAMES M'HJSNftV, Sec'y of War. 1
t. I a "- 7- d6w ]
r £ a By JOHN MILLER, ju«. & Co. <
No. 2, Chfinut-ftreet, \ I
, One hundred and eighty bales 1
BENGAL GOODS,
* 1
Amongfi which are,
Gtirrahs Matuoodies
Baftas Sannas (
Hiizj-nahs Tanda ColTUes
Giftiia' Emertics
'.JUUF Cloths Calicoes
Calanpoors Ram all Hawlherehieft
fts AmongJ them are a gre-at proportion of the
manufactures of Patfta,
!;a- December x. « §
To Be Sold,
AGREEABLY tothelaftwill and testament of -
Whliam Hf decrafed, and poflef- /
(ion given immediately, a valuable property in Arch
street, between Third and Fourth streets, consist
ing of the haufe, No. 107, with the lot on which 1
' n it is eresfted, a ftabl», mnd other improvement*.—
The house is 10 feet front, and contains ten good
apartments. The lot is of the fame breadth as the
hojife and 109 feet deep, jyith a well of water and
a very capacious walled cHterxij both with pumps
in goep repair. The liable hands on the rear of
the .lot and will accommodate four horses and a car- u
r.age. This property enjoys the perpetual privilege 0
of a 26 feet court and an alley, 8 feet wide, extend- ''
lT.g t° Cherry Street. Its central position and the
advantages it pofTefles with Tefpeift to free ventila
tion, renders it well worthy the attention of any ~
perfan wi&ingto poJIWs an eligible property in Phi
ladelphia,
For further particulars enquire at No 88, Viae 0
Street—of p
Robert Heysham, } f
or £ Ailing Executors. C
£ti
W. ~
; 0 Delineator of Drawing—-ftcm Loudun,
(Where he has studied several years under ona of
the most eminent matters in that science) ?I
INFORMS his friends, that he has re-co«nmenc
ed his private tuition.—Terms, as usual, Six £
Dollars per month, for attendance three times a p
week. Likewiie, all kinds of Ornamental Paint- __
ing, fruit, flow»rs, &c. taught on the above terms.
W. H. flatters himfelf his terms will be particu
larly advantageous to those that employ him, as C
he makes no additional charge if there are two -*■
te pupils In one famiJy. so
ig A line dire&ed to W. H. left at the office of this C(
f. Gszette, will be immediately attended to. 'h
,t- January 9. §iw
CT TKF owners of the Brjgantine I wi
f . Mercury, Wi!li;rm Uron, master, captured by Vc
a Spanish privateer and fold at Ceuta in laflDe
cember, may receive interesting information ref
peeing her, by applying to the Department of t
Stfte. Y
*l. * The Printers in the sea-port towns of u '
the United States will render a fei-vice to the
concerned, by inserting the above in tbeir news*
papers.
NOT! C E.
To holders of JAMES GREENLEAF'S f
and ED IVARD FQX's Engagementsj I J i
IN confequerice of masiv having been prevent- sea
edt from late unavoidable circumstances frein prt
i obtaining their Certificates, agrteable to former to
is notice. The Trustees now inform they pa;
are ready to iflue the krae to those who may ap
ply within fixtydays, at No. 8 Chefmit Street,
and those who do not, will beconfidercd as r&- J
linquifhing tlreir claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided for their payment.
HENRY PRATT,
THtMAS W.FRANCIS, , 1
JOHN MILLER, JUN. I".'
JOHN ASHLEY, ® r, J
JACOB BAKER. bef
December 15. Jf, ot 3 " c
1 r-t ——- hen
ROSS b 5 SfMSON,
c HAVE FOR SALE,
r A few bales Baftas, Cuflas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON .
Bengal SUG AK, in bags a ltd boxes A
Jamaica, -a
St. Vincents, £ RUM. '' or
and Bengal j c
300 calks RICE, end '° w
A parcel of (hip building RED CED AR.
OA 27. 4 V f
- £_ the.
To be Exchanged for elc £
Brill/h, German, or India Goods, D
; IN THE PACKAGE ;
A tract of valuable Land
In Lycoming, joining that of the Holland co. Bo
and containing 10,ceo Acres.
Inquire «f the Printer. «
Jsn; ij. j jyj
Philadelphia & Lancaster Tutn- (be°i
pike Company.
~—— ft-ho
January 4, 1798. ;}, e
At a meeting of the Preftdent and Managers, fcho:
this day, a dividend of 5 dollars per Jbare was educ
declared for the !ajl half year, ivhith <wi!l be by Grf
.them retained, ftr the payment of the debts of refpt
the Company, agreeable toa resolution ofthe Stock
holders the 12th June lass. r lln
TENCH FRANCIS, Treqfurer Tl
Of lhe Philadelphia U LantaJlerTUntpiAeCom'py. raar<
'January 3 of.gr
■' *» • '' '
' ' " ' v
is, The holders of the notes, accep
tances, endorfecnenti and othw <;ng*spcnn.-ftts
ps Edward Fox, Air' a<cou:it of Jamck.
tat reen '* :a '» 3r * hcvoHy notilied, that Wed
,(:>i nefdsy, tK> 14th F<bruary next, istht-lsft
ren day, all wiiich thcy Cart admit fubferiptions
m« to the fund aligned to them for the pay
ai mentaf said engagements j and that those'
? !".i holders, who do not on or before that day
•ire ma ke thej'r fubferiptions, will be excluded
ch ; from the brse£i thereof.
Br- Henry Pratt, '
7*. IV. Frafieit, I
" Jo hn Miller, jun,
,r
w- J-aeei Baker^
*A Jan. 29. dtf 1
ig! Surveyor General's Office. f
g« December 2, 1797.
of a release of furtrey of acres, 68 perches '
V/ of land, (liuate in lowa- SmithfielJ townftiip '
Northampton county, fufveyed to William WiHs,
per warrant of. ad March, 1786, the Deputy Sifc- '
veyor hath made the following note, v?i, T
This land claimed by heirs of Lewis Gordon and *
George Taylor, not knowti by what right.—Cer
tified for Daniel Broadhejd, llfj. Surveyor Gene
ral—William Parker.
The firft Mouday in March next is appointed for
a hearing of the parties oh the above caveat, or any n
ethers interested or concerned therein, they .having °
at leafl thirty days notice fcr Jolin Hall, Setrettry P
of the Land Office. 1
N. Lufborough.
January , §.ti Fawan. .»
, ie Copper for Sheathing,
Far Sale, ly »,'
SIMON WALKER,
Pine-Jtrrtt, near Fifth.
January 29 diw
of -
£ Qentcel Boarding and Lodging, r
j. To be had at a moderate price—inquire at
:h No. 138) Arch-street. fl
Jan, 37. dlw
f e The Subscriber, ||
d Informs those to whom he is indebted, that his
j, books, which have been kept open for their infpec- I,]
,f tioo since December 1796 are balanced to the 3 rft
fm ult. and will during the prefeut month remain
r e open at his Counting-house in CbeftiKt Street for ,
j. their further inyeftigation snd fcrut ny.
e JAMES GREENLEAF. ll
Philadelphia, Jan. 1(11798.
i- The Subscriber p
INFORMS thofi whom It may interest or con- (
te earn, thac the Judge of the Court of Common
Pleas have appointed Monday, the tiventyfixth day of
February next, to .hear him and his Creditors, at the 1
s. Court-house in this city, on the fiibjeA of his peti
tion for the benefit of the Isfolvcnt Law—and St
oreenleatT" t
Philadelphia, Jan. 16. eotl6thF B
f The Subscriber intends to make J"
application for the renewal ot a Certificate of a Share tj (
in the Bark of the United States, (landing in the name r ; (
t No. 5005, dated July 11,1797, the fame tr
a h»ving«been loft. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dee.it ( ; g w
: PROPOSAL. i*
I "jLJAVING met with a liberal patronage, the by
, X X Subscriber is emboldened te issue proposals
for printing by fubferintion, the JOURNALS OF T
s CONGRESS, from theii* firft meeting in 177 cto M
the present time. J
This work (hall be printed with * hew type,
made for the purpel'e; «nd en good paper. It
; will be delivered *t wie dollar per v®Jumd (ofia- ,
r Vo ) in ® V9is.—Caffi to he paid on delivery.
It is necdlefs to fay any thing of the merits of
this undertakitigi-the fear city of the Journals
r throughout the United SKates. is fuflicient to jufti- j
fy th« primer in his hope of meeting with that ]
. success, whieh he is certain the enterprize deserves 1
JOHN PARKER. !
d 6t ]
N OTIC E. " fro:
ALL perfoiis. who have any demands Jgaiuft
th» eflate of Willam Fleewtood, of
LiverpoS'l, late of Philadelphia, merchant* (le 1 . —I
sea/ed, are reqiiefted to exhibit their aceounts,
properly attested ; and those who are iftdebted
to the fame, afe desired jo make immediate jj 0
payment, to n
GEO. DOBSON, > „ . . M , <
No. 25, So. Third-flreet. \ r - ,
jinnary 4. ? dtf ag-a
— ■» ■ Uni
All persons J den
Having any demands agamft the Eflate of the Cor
late Captain George Irwin, are requffted to j n ft
bring in their aceounts pi operly atteflerf, oil of « „
before the firft day of Januiry n*xt tnfuing «' 0
a»d those wh® are indebted to said estate are lo " ft
licited to make immediate payment to «« a
SARAH iRYYIN, Adrniniltryrix. Pri.
ntv. z 9 1797. t
To be fold, Fo
An ei.egant country s®at, contain- j
ing 6 acres anJ 40 perebes, with a neat two
story brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple .
Orchard, &c. situate on the Ififh trad! lane, in the S
townffiip of Moyamenfing, about one mile from „
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made k/iow'n upon application at the office of 011
the Philadelphia Gazette. fcet
The improvements upon this place, for taste and P re '
eleg-anee, rtand unrivalled, 'nurr
Deeember 1. "
.. . "* * r
Columbia MOUSE w h
Boarding School for young Ladies. v -
MRS. GROO.MBi'IDGE with much pleaf
ureand refpeil, returns her sincere ac- 3 ' !
knowledgemcnt for the liberal encouragement _
(he h'ss received dormp; four years »R aV< j
Philadelphia; and afTures her friends and the '
public, so far from intending to decline her 10,1
fehool, (he has made a fUperiof arrangement for T " av
the more convenient accommodation of her P rop
fcholirs.—Every branch of ufeful and polke
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Gr*ombriv!ge and malWrs excelling in their
refpcilivc proff ffions.
Corruer 'otSpruce.and Eleventh 3ev
June sthj 1797. Jrmftf i^cju
Th"?fituat;«n is healthy ; andmade e ood
mare agreeablehy sin cxtenfrve garden and lot a cot
of.grsaid adjoitii?j tfje houfp. Er
' / A
sp- Bafk^nridge-—for Sale.
tftts TT consists of 910 acre;*, a!mf>ll all of which I
inVefc. . a r ' c ' l Meidi'MS Jtne refideace of thi
j , ia'te-Earl.Sterling). .it me jr. be Convenient'.}
6 " .divided mt > five farms, four of which are turned
_ u ori the East by therivre Pafaick.
ions There are on it a number of bnildiagv, foim
»ay- ing a fqu arc of nearly three acres—The tlwel
iofe' ling house is a \ery coavenieflt ene, and a final
d«y r *pence wculd it in complete repair.
Tlie orchard ctnJifts ct tyan fine bear'ne en
grafted Apple TVtOi—and there is on cthe
p*rts of said trail near 300 other Apple Trees—
as also a great variety of other fruits, particular
ly Cherries of (be belt and most delicious kiads
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics act
Forest Trees, thu add ro the beauty and conve
nience of the place Its Stuation it aUo«t iS
£• miles from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth ;
! w> do. from Motris-Towu, and la from Spring
field—Jt is wooded and watered.
To save trouble, the priife Is five pounds pr.
ches lcrc caOi, on delivery of the deeds. Plraie
Hip to enquire of McITUEN & Co.
'iUs, No. *,8, Chefnut Street.
Sfe-' February». eodif
all j Insurance Office of the State ot
PennJ'ylvaoia.
Sit- ~ , _
relruarjf I, I yt)B.
f ur THE pireflorshave this day declared a diyi^end
an of faveifty dollars 00 each ftiare of the flock of the
company, for the lalj; fx month*, wbieh will be
tsr „ paid to the Stockholders or their legal rejrefenca
tivesthe otbinft.
JAMES s. COX, Pr.fJer.t.
Feiiriiry 1 ; diyt
" Flax Seed for .Sale!"
Apply to GEO. DOBSON,
Np-25 South Third street.
Jan. 27. dtf
• City (Jomrnifiioner's Oflice,
"January, I%th, 1797.
FOR THE INFORMATION OF THE CItIZE-NS.
S» ' 1 'HE following arrangement is made by the
:at X said Commissioners, for cleansing the
streets, &c.
. DiftriiS; No. j.—From the north fide of Vine
street to the south fide of Mulberry-Greet ; to
be under the fuperintendance of Nicholas Hicks.
115 2. From the south fide of Mulberry street, to
' e< jT fouth fide of Chctiut street to be under the
' a j a iuperindarice of William Moulder,
for 3 " rocn t ' le f° ut h f'de of Chefnut street to
the north fide of Spruce street, to be under the
fuperintendance of Joseph Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of Spruce street, to the
io. south fjde of Cedar street, to be under the fu
perintendance of Hugh Roberts. mwfim
° o h ; Canal Lottery—JVJo. 11.
y <>f - • 1 f
'he "TTTILL Commence drawing Monday, the 20th
Mi- VV inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
ind Sevtn Dollar 1, at Wm. BLACKBURN'S Lottory
* *; — .VI '~ rr * 1, », ..
I lckets iu the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Tn
f BtlUrs, where check books are kqpt lor regular
ing » n d examining in these, the City of Waihing
ton, No. 11. and Paterfon Lotteries, and inform a
•re ti6h where tickets may be had in most of the Lotte
"j* ries authonifid by law in any of the States of the
j Union.
g' w B -. The business of aßtoxsi, in buying and
_ felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
dffcounthg Bills and Notes of Hand, lale of
Lands, Houses, &c. Sic. will be duly attended to
: h . e b y " WM. BLACKBURN.
a!s noirtmbcr 15.
to James C. £sf Samuel VV". Fisher,
A, 7 THEIR STORE,
>e, No 13, corner of Arch and Front streets,
I( SArs FOR SALE,
a * Cotton and worded Hosiery in trunks, aiTorted
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannels
™ Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs
' ls Ditto Pullicat silk ditto
'■* Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs ditto
at Ditto Gurralis
Pen gal black Taffetics
4000 piccus Nankeens, and
Few thefts bett Hyson T«a
Alfi—isoo boxes baft London Window Glass,
from Bby6,to 19 by 14—and IJ hhds. Ofefs
ft assorted .which they will difpofc of cheaper
than any in the city.
/ november »B'. 3awtf
FOR SALE, at "
d Wm. Young's Book Store,
• e No. St, Sesond street, the corner of Chefnut street,
REPO&T of the Committee of the House of
Reprufentativesol the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and Report Articles of Impeachment
againft.VttLLtUf BLOUNT, a Senator of the
- United States, impeached of high crimes and mif
derneanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of
the House of Rcprefentatives, authorizing the said
Committee to fit ctunng the recess of Congress, and
0 inft ruling them "to enquire, and, by all lawful
r " means, to difo#ver the whole nature and extrnt
% " of the offence whereof the said William Bloun,t
» " (lands impeache.:, aqd who are the varties and
" a(lociatestherein."
Printed by order of the House of Rebrefentati-vcs.
December 20.
For sale to be let on ground
rent,
' ■A valuable Lot of Ground ;
~ CITUATE on the north-eiftcorner of Wal
-1 nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State
, House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
f 011 Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half ori Fifth street ; there are at
j present two small two story brick houses, and a
'number of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Safe,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient ftpres, wharf, &c.fituate<iu
Water-ftrfet, between Mulberry and Saffafras
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, ami continuing that breadth eaft
| ward ;iine:y-five feet, then widening to the
; south thirteen feet fix inches. These ho«fo
; ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining
or. the north fide,.and are a very desirable situa
tion for a merchant, flour fadlor.or others who
fnay have accaGon for storage of goods. Thi*
property will be fold on very reifonable tarms
forcafh. Forfnrtherinformation apply to the
printer.
J"'V m&wtf
FOR SALE, *
Several fonts oi^ypes—half worn.'
Including Long Primer, about 400 weight, i a
good condition, a id would answer the purpose oe
a country printer as v*sl as new.
Euquitfi of the Printer, mY . 30 .■ ■■- ' 1 -«
/, /.SHIXG7eX r LOTT£Rr t --Ne. I S -
List or Prizes a*d Blanks. .
tyjd Day's Drawing —December 18. "~
JVo.Utit. Ao. litis- ±\'o. Deli. No. Dolt.
J«» JJ44J 45089 x V
537 6j 1 917 *
5413 x 79i * **9« 35*
jr v < 950 * 57050 x 39J19
715 15370 * 403 X 857 *
<i»7 J7« 44» 4«C49 '
a»9 jo >7894 660 567 x
345- 18477 * 897 <rj»»
946 19191 1 184JJ 573 *
7546 z 344 , 7*>« 9*3
7*» JIS * *9C3» 4*93 * *
9178 84s ISO 43344
*»4 10906 x 37* 347 lit
915 »'175 io * fll s x Vt
i«C73 646 969 454°7 x ag
549 * . 788 30170 584 * tr
' 813 X s»io6 *7» * 585 X ,
918 284 x 31864 X 78* ' "
11*5* 4»5_ 3 i00 4 4*687 X tE
*79 470 3446* 847 to
38* *3079 3564' 47107 tb
(91 x J7* x 36613 4813° pi
ia»66 u 839 37337 «5 6 x _
'm 960 4" f l6 j a
9«a x *4839' x 889 49988 x
The cargo of the Weft-Indian from jj.
Jamaica, landing at South Street wharf, ,
136 hhds. and 300 barrel* ihoice Coffe* 0
98 Hhdt of pnme Sugar ''
49 Hbds. of Rum. fu
fir fait By I,
'Peter Blight. „
vbo allooinaircaaaLi,
4*0,090 Lbi of Java Coffee >
800 Bags 3t>. Sugar
Cloves and msec in boxes er
A quantity of Hifpaiwoli Cocoa m
Xed Port Wine ia pipes and hoglheads
idadeire do. io pipes
February 6 dltreotm to
Bank of Pennsylvania. all
fri
AT a meeting of the Stockholders, held it the
Bank on Friday, the td Fabruarj, 1798, purfu
aat to pablic notice— ™
On mtnioti, Refolvad, That, this meeting be- fa±
ing impreiTed with a dne.icnf* of the extraordina- tv
ry services and attention of Samuel M. Fox, Esq. ] g ,
President of thiaßank, in the e»ec«tion of the du. ,
ties of his office ; which hare been much increas
ed by the peculiar situation of the institution, at 111
the period of hia appointment; and ty the diffi- th
catties oecjfioned in conlequence of the recent ca- y e
lamity in this city ; —a committee of three gentle- f e
men be appointed to prepare a piece of Plate, of a n
value nut exceedingfive hundred dollars, with suit
able emblems and devices, to be presented to Mr.
Fox, in the name of the Stockholders, as, an eri- ru
dence of the high fcnfe they entertain of his late J t
official services. ,1,
William T. Smith, Peter WikofF, and Charles
Biddlc, Efqrs. were appointed a committee for the , na
above purpose. br
Ordered, that the preceding resolution be pub- be
lilhed. be
Extraft from the miantes. .l
WILLIAM T. SMITH,
Chairman. m
Attrf— John Sitgheayes, Secretary. th
■ re 1
BALL. ty
Mr. Francis relpe<3fully informs hia scholars, fee
and the public in general, that his fourth prafl
ifing Ball will be Thurfdayevemng the Bth inft a l]
at the. new Aflcmbly Room, South Fourth j,e
V 1 1 t- - 1 " --'
Ladies tickets to be haJ by applying to the ,
tholars of Mr. Francis, or at bis bouse No. 70
North Eighth street. Gentlemen's tickets one W1
dollar each, to be had of Mt. Francis, at the pc
Aaademy, or at his house. ar
' 'hit. Francis tikewife inform, the Subscribers
to the Selefl Balls, that the last of the prefcnt
fubfeription, will be on Tucfday the 13th. r
Mr. Francis continues to take Scholars as
afual. . " C<
feb. S' V
fc
For Sale. 41
"■pHE Subscriber offers for sale the property now w
JL occupied by him in the town of Weft-C'hefUr
and county of Chester. It cpnCfls of a well finifhed e .
two flory stone house, 43 feet frent, by abo*t 40
deep, jour rooms on a floor, with cieled garrets,
and a cellar anderthe whole—A very good stone n
Stable and Coach house—And a lot of Ground, ®
three perches wide, by twenty perches depth. tl
The house (lands on the Main street j its situation t .
is high and very bandfome; the lot txtends to a . (
back street, on which the stable and coach house
stand. The lot is in a high state of cultivation, "
and there is in the yard a pump of excellent water, ll
which has, at no time, bean known to fail. H
' The situation of the town is high, and remark-
ably healthy—the country ; round it, fertile and
beautiful.
The terms of payment will made to suit th e
par chafer. They, and the price, will be fettled, li
apen application to Mr. Jonathan Sm-th, at no. c
140, South Third-street. Philadelphia, or to
ROBERT FRAZER. *
Febraary 5. mwftf .
Freth Fruits and Wine. 1
_ (
Edward Dunant, ]
Ho. 149, s#ut h Front-street,
Has remaining of the cargo pr Jobanni, from
Malaga —
99 kegs Raisins 1
l»3 Jars ) Rloom do.
125 Boxes \
ici ditto Muscatel do. ' ,
15 kegs Figs
»o qr caflts fine old Colemenar Wine
A few pipes and hoglhaads of Cclalonia Wine,
and Malaga and Mountain Wine in hhds and
quarter caflts.
He has also for Sale—
A few packages of Madiafs and Calcutta
goods, via. *
Tickery —Humhutns
Barh'ar Handkerchiefs
Black andfoloured Taffities and Perfuns
Bandannaes —Choppa Romalls—Pullicot hkf.
Patna Chintz
Likewise a few boxes of Spermaciti Candles,
and bags of B'.lck Pepper. >
Feb. >■ . 3t_
Prison Manufactory.
FOR SALE,
At the Prifoa of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of all fixes, from jdy to oody
Flooring Brads. Spriggs, fiddle and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakers and Sadler* Thread
Also Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and hem Hones, hearth*, chimney pieces,
platforms, flabj.facli, wiadow !iJls,.c .
All which may he had'on reafonabl. terms.
Shoes made and Weaving done at (aid Prifoo at
a modetare price.
Ordcra froma difiance. dirf 51. <3 to Daniel Tho
ma*, agent for the ba attended to
December *6. mth6o>
- Xl}C ©ajttte. "
, y * to
PHILADELPHIA, hii
WEDKE4DAY EVENING, FEBRUARY" 7. to|
m tn<
From the CoiUMBIAH CtKTINEI/.
THE CONSTITUTIONAL IEST. ? r
• , »-"■
MR. IBSSBU, | '
STATE SOVEREIGNTY, wasbnee
a popular do&rine, and fame members of |
former legiflatnrea, seemed to think it con-
filled in the foveretfoty of the general court j 1 "
cwr the state, and all its creditors, so far
as to make void all state obligations howev-
er faaftioned bylaw, if they should judge tj
them to be unreasonable forgeting that • 1
the foweign people had formed a ctnflitution J
to be a/«Ttz to legillators, and to guarantee
the fame, had required an oath of the re-
prefentatives and senators to " naintaia it" 0
—" To the ead it may be a government of
laws, aad not of men," tbfr legtflative and
judicial pawcrs were to be separate and dif
tinft from eaeh other ; but how can thi3 be
if the ltgiflature is foverujn and can judge
of its own contraAs ? 1$ sot the right of . .
tfSc people to a trial by ajury, destroyed by -
such an exchifive power in the legiftature > _f
Is not this an exercise of the judicial pow
er contrary to the plain letter and meaning
th* conftitutioo ? Is not the judicial
branch degraded by such assumption of poiv. .
er in the legfflative branch of the govern-
Bent ?—ls it Bot extremely dangerous to . r
the equal rights and liberties of the citizens
to have the greatest fafeguard in theconfti- c "
tution, the judicial power (containing the
all important right of trial by a jnry) in-J 0
fringed by the legiflativc branch ? If fa cap- °f
ital a departure from the eonftitution is per
mitted, it will fooa be fanftioned by "U- ft
foge." This precedent, may countenance "3
every future infraftion, whenever the legif- bt
latnre may think it expedient to exercise JC
the powers vested in the other branches of la
the government. In this state, no doubt, ed
the reprefentativea have meant well ; but the a£
people meant to have the eonftitution ob- It
served, or they would not have made it, n '
and fanAioned it by an oath.—Therefore, tr
"to the law, and to the testimony," is the at
rule for the people and the legislatures. °-
It is well known, that the cause by which at
the ancient republics all perilhed, was their
not being properly balanced with three n "
branches, and the most numerous body ol
bearing down the others. Such has ever he
been the effeft of uncbarteted power, in ol
the nsoft numerous branch of the govern- g'
mcnt ; and the experience of paft'ages, and tl
the present time, proves that fueh a fvue|- ei
reign power will commit the wildest afts of m
tyranny. Witness modern France ; and ly
fee Georgia. th
The cause is obvious ; a few men gener- ei
ally govern, or lead the representative body w
itl-tretubers '»er (" nuaacrons, and U fc
the rtiling few adopt errors, ujc ngvu ui
the citizens cannot by any means be fafe o!
without the right of appeal to the judicial di
< power for an explanation of the eonftitution fc
and the laws ? di
It is evident to all Americans, that a free f«
government cannot eayfl without the foil si
right of trial by e jury, how then does it tl
come to pass that this right is not preferv- n
ed { It is owing to ancient cuflom, was so be- r<
fore the revolution, and the strange power of w
ancient precedents seems to have been greater u
with many men, than the new eonftitution. f]
The people generally keep a watchful e
eye over the executive branch, but appre- o
hend lefa danger from the legislative, as its v
members are numerous aAd proceed immedi- c
•tely from themselves. In this country ii
the executive power ia too weak, and liber- h
ty is in danger from this ci rcumftance. But b
is there not still greater danger that the ju- n
dicial power may be so impaired as tolofe t
its neceflary influence in the government ? h
The legislature is more numerous, and na- c
turally stronger, than the other two branch- f
es, and nothing but the vigilance of the j
people can prevent the balance being totally t
, loft, and the lcgiflators becoming real ar'tfle- r
crats in power. Did we not fee one branch 1
of the legislature of the Union contend for c
the tontrou! of the executive power in mak- :
ing treaties ?—Have we not seen some state c
legislatures (besides Georgia) invade the jut
dicial department ? The usurping brancS <
will always pretend, "it is to secure the (
rights -of the people." The great princi- I
t pie ia the eonftitution, which Separates the I
three great powers in government, is evi- I
dently founded in the highest wisdom ; in 1
such a " balanced government of laws,"
the three branches arc checlt upon each
other ; —and not only honest men, but
rogues (if such (hould ever chance to be in
, t power) will guard against encroachments
d on the department in which they are.
But for the people Jo watch the execu
tive and judicial powers only, is to guard
a the litrfe gate of the citadel and leave the
great great one open.
CITIZENS.
f. THE GHOST.
Si An account of a remarkable effort to recov
er liberty, aad which may be depended
_ 011 as a faft.
Near the close of the month of July 1790,
tie ship Broot, Samuel Oliver commander,
left the Island of Antigua, on her pafiage ]
to Europe. The veflel had not been many
days at sea, before one of the seamen, on
his watch, was alarmed with the appearance
1 of fomethiag, which he fancied to be no o.
ther than a ghost: he eommunicated what
lct he saw, or supposed he had seen, to his
, rs ' messmate.
c . A few nights had now pasTed ftnee tbeter
ror stricken sailor had divulged his tale,when
11 he, as well as his fellows on the watch, were
ho alarmed by theCelf fame apparition: It mov
ed, according to the account they gave to
» the chief mate on the relief of the watc^
in flow pare all round Ac iorflc® ut ,
and after continuing sometime ',
ed behind the windlafc. The mate: nie jj|
to laugh at the account; nevertheless he had
hi* fears ; and it wa« agreed on that hwpiett
together with the boatswain anrf Cfveral o
ther stout hearted fellows, should assist t e j
watch to difeover, if possible, what it was j )01
which had so moch alarmed the greatest part , )ig
of the ctew. The main deck was accord- ha(
, ingly walked by tnefe heroes, night alter
night, without the ghost making its appear-
I ance. Having been upwards of twenty a } s
lat sea, the weather in the night became boi - e j t
tcrous ; the windsblew; the thunder roue t j e
awfully, and the'lightning flalhed ternhcal- hi|
ly vivid; all hands were called up l ° a ' tio
the (hip by their labors ; and in the rniaic or
their profeffional employ the ghost a/ain afl
mada its appearance; and it was naw seen £. q]
by the whole crew (the captain exc«pted) . j pa
One of those employed on the quarter deck i t j Q
rushed forwards towards the supposed phan
torn ; and at the instant it seemed within his ,
grasp, a of lightning of the mod tre-1 # f |
mendous fort covered it from his fig)* l: 1 his ;
was seen by the men on the yards, who were
reefing the 1 frveral fails, and who, one and j n
idl, declared it could be no other than the
devil, as he funk from the attempt of the | en
sailor in a fla(h of fire. Several of the jg C
sailors were positive it could be »o other , j l( .
than the evil spirit, for reasons to them the
mo ft fufficient; that they miffed their beef, j R
their biscuit and their grog, whenever all fcc
hands were called on deck; that they had a.-
so heard could neither eat nor ; j, a
drink ; and what confirmed them stronger q
in their belief of it being no 'other than lu-
cifer himfelf wa6, fiom its vamfhing the pre- j u
ceding night, in a flame of fire ; and some j
of them were not wanting to give it as their w
opinion, that he had raised the dorm. f rl
The affair of the gboft had now become he
serious, and the mate accordingly determin- ve
ed on acquainting the captain with the whole ti<
business on the fcJllowing day : This being pe
accordingly done, the captain heard the re- w
lation with fhme and communicat- th
ed the mysterious account to h.s passengers,
a iking them at the fame time their advice. ; in
It was agreed upon to walk the deck that < so
night, and there form their opinion of the j L
truth of the report: They began their march d(
about ten, and continued it until the break i n<
of day ; the ghost or devil did not appear ; i tl
and bringing to mind what was said by some ! n<
of our greatest poets, that the troubled fpi- j tt
rits haunt our regioa but while darknef* and h;
obfeurity fill the void, they retired to their c<
beds, probably well fatisfied with the event C
of their watch. The captain and paffea- it
gers naw pat down the whole story as no o- o
ther than the effeCt of imagination in the h
erew : But the Bien were not to be thus a- p
mused out of ar. opinion which they all firm- w
ly believed; and they still persisted in what ri
they had faidand seen: whatfervedto height- p
en their credulity still more, was an event p
Which had taken place but a few hours be- a
r i_i ——j mmmUi w
►"wi'uamrt'oek*." This excited new curi- b
ofity j and the captain, finding it woild be e
difficult to prevail Wr their prejudices, of
fered"* reward to him or them who would o
discover who or what this devil was. A t
fellow who had, through the whole of this C
lingular affair, appeared less alarmed than j
the reft, was the firft to undertake the hufi» v
ness ; and the others of the (hip's company f
readily agreed to assist in the discovery. To f
r work they went, when, after having moved \
• upwards of forty hogsheads ef sugar, the 1
spirit was difcoyered asleep in an empty wat
[ rr butt: It was no other than a Negro man I
. of about twenty year* of age, who, with a 1
i view of recovering bis liberty, had there fe- I
- I creted himfelf. His story, when brought
■ into the cabin, was nearly as follows : That '
-! he belonged to a Mr. Alexander Coates, (hip 1
t | builder in the town of St. John's ; that his I
- I master having ftnt him in a canoe to get i
: I turtle grass, and put it on board this vessel,
? he accordingly didfo, and it being the dusk
■ of the evening when he delivered it, a tho't 1
- struck him, that such an opportunity would <
: probably never offer again for his getting
j to England; he therefore flipped down a
- rope which was hanging over the stern, put
l bis jacket into a canoe, and keeping hold
r of the stern rape, cut hi* boat adrift, and
- afceoded the vessel undiscovered. He now
e crept into the fore hatchway, and got into
- the hold, where, finding the empty water
a calk, he took out it* head, end therein he
e fccreted himfelf during the space of thirty
i- three days, seven of which was while the
e ship lay is St. John's harbor (during which
i-1 time the canoe had been pickted up, and the
n man given up as drowned), and twenty-fix
" at sea. His manner of liviig was, when
h the sailor* were all on deck* he would Jteal
it out, and pick up" what he could find, and
n I carry it to his tub; and also turnout at night
ti when he thought all quiet,' to breathe the
I refrefhing air. After the discovery he work
i-1 ed as a seaman, having, previous to this trip
rd made two voyages to Liverpool; and he was
ie named by the sailors Jack Choft; an-! those
I brave fellows seemed rather diverted than
I hurt by the consternation he had thrown
1 them into. (N. T. paper)
, J Frejh Fruit. 1
ed I • "
I To-morrow morning will be landed, at
)0, I Morris't Wharf, just above the Draw
ee bridge, the cargo of the fehooner Frede
!ge rick (burg Packet, Captain Pearce from
ny Malaga, viz.
on I Bioom Raifir« m kegs i
I Do. Do. in boxes
Mufcatcl do. in do.
' I ' n
bat I Almond kernel* in calks and boxes
bis Soft Ihcll'd almonds in fack^
I Prunes in boxes
j Grapes injar<
Anchovies in kegs, &c.
l en The whole of the at tides (hipp.d as of the firft
ere I qualities.
ov. I F«r Safe by
■ to Peter Kuhn.
el- I i"Vvw ™ ' '
CONGRESS thi
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES - lt
v fia
MONDAT —FEBRUAR* 5'
(Concluded from jejl'rday s Gaz'tte.) pe
Mr. S. Smith's te2;mony. When the
house was balfoting he left his feat to take f#
his letters from the letterbox; the houie his
had not adjourned but the members *«ere pe
in -conversation in different parts of the qu
house. He passed by Mr. Lyon and the w<
speaker who were in,converfation. riewas
either reading or writing when his atten- q
tion was called by a conversation behind j
him; he heard something of the converfa- d(
tion, and a question was asked Mv. Lyon as
to an opposition in Vermont to the Ramp
aft, and as if Mr. L. was to have brought M
forward petitions against it. He did not t j £
i pay particular attention to all the convcila
| tion, though it was loud enough ; something on
; was said by Mr. G. which he did not hear, u ;
j but which occasioned a loud iaugh; he was w j
' afterwards informed this was the question W(
' about the wooden sword. Mr. Lvon ap- tQ
! peared to be addressing the fptaker and fay- h
ing to him that the members of Connecticut
' afted against the opinions of their conftitu-: £e
l*nts: Mr. Brookes asked whether he had OI
j gone through his diftri*. Mr. Lyon said fa|
!he had and mentioned a few towns. Mr.
Brooks jokingly observed that he had been n<;
in the back ground as tie had frequently
been before. Mr. Lyon obftrved on the ol
bett:r information the people of Vefrtidnt
' had, compared with those of Connefticut. (jj
On this Mr. Brookes good humouredly ob- w
served, that they proved this by the great
luminary they had sent. Mr. Lyon then ob- nc
served that the members of Connecticut t j,
would always be willing to accept of office*
from 9000 dollars salary to Z 000. He
heard Mr. Lyon in the course of the con- e<
verfation fay, that the members of Connec
ticut did not speak the sentiments of the q
people and he seemed to insinuate that they a(
were willing to receive any office; that {j
there were maViy democrats in Connefticut ;
—then the speaker said, perhaps this might jj
| induce him no longer to eonfefs he had t }
I some Connefticut blosd in. his veins. Mr. w
! Lyon said, democrats in the manner he un- (
1 derftood the word; Mr. Grifwold removed f £
1 near Mr. Lyon. He (Mr. 1..) observed,
; that he had had to fight the people of Con- jj
i nefticut in his awn diftrift who endeavoured ; r
J to indispose the people towards him; but he
had repelled their attempts and thought he £
could effeft a revolution in sentiment in t ]
Connefticut and»change the representation;
in which the speaker said he would fpaie {j
one perhaps; he said perhaps he might, for
his conduit was more conformable to the o- G
pinion* of hi* constituents. But all this
was said jocularly. While Mr. Lyon was n
repeating some of those observations res- t
■ pelting the difference of opinion of the peo- a
pie of Connecticut and
Mr. G. said he would not r
be able to change the opinion of the mean
est hostler in the state. t
Mr. Lyon then said he was of a different
1 opinion, and that if he went there he would t
. be able to effeft what he said he could. Mr. {
1 G. then replied; when you do go there, 1
1 you had better take the wooden sword that t
- was attached to you at— Mr. Lyon here (
r spit in his face, and Mr. Grifwold with s
) feemitig composure and great deliberation 1
1 wiped it. He, Mr. Stnith, then left the <
: house. 1 1
Mr. Lyon asked, whether he heard the ■
i beginning of the conversation refpefting j
1 Vermont, and of hi* turning it from V<r
- raont to Canucfticut. ]
t Mr. Smith—He heard a very few words,
t with fomt indiltinift allulions, he did not ;
p know who from, as if Mr. Lyon had some
s thing to do with the oppodtion to the flamp ,
t aft in Vermont.
, Mr. Brookes next gave his testimony.
k He had heard part <<f the conversation be
t tween Mr. Lyon and it rela
d ted to the conduft of the members of Con
g ne£ticnt refpe£tiug the motion of the mem
a ber from Virginia. They spoke pretty
it loud and the speaker checked them, by the
d observation dated in his testimony. Mr.
d Dana retired. A conversation took place
w between Mr. Lyon and the speaker of
o which he did not hear the beginning. A
bout this time Mr. Grilwqld came and fat
e down to his left. The conversation then
y became louder and he heard the speaker
ie and Mr. Lyon convert about the conduft
h of the members fiom Connecticut. He
ie~ stated, that on his return he had passed
ix through some part of that state and had an
:n opportunity of collecting the opinions of
al the people of it. He said, that nine tenths
id of the people of Connecticut differed in
hit their sentiments from their representatives in
ie this house. He said, that the members
k- from that state did not fairly represent their
ip
as own interest, were looking for offices and
ife that it was immaterial what the salary was,
an and that whether 9000 or 1000 dollars they
vn thought it still an objeft worth their atten
tion. He observed he had lived many years
= in Connecticut and wa3 well acquainted with
the dispositions of the people of that (late ;
that he had often to fight them in his own
state, when they came to fee ( their relations
at and that he Wa* always able to convince
w " them that they were wrong ; that he had
' e " no doubt if he went to Connecticut and set
3fn up a (in which he understood he was
concerned in Vermont ) he wfluld be able to
' turn out the whole representation ; he did
not hear the exception of one member ; he
did not pay veiy partienlar.atttention to it
as it wa* said jestingly. ' I asked whether
be had gone through mydiftriCt ; he said
he had ; b,"t he bad no hopes of them.
He then made a comparison between the
firft light possessed by the of Vermont
and those of Connecticut. I said jokingly,
that the»Vermontefe proved their superiori
ty by the great luminary ther had {eat
""V - "
Mont and those of Conaedicv, *
the more forcibly f rotn 3n
the people of Conn^; cut , r ,
2'uch enlightened as tl.of, c * r " fc
Sate of the Union.'
When Mr, Lyo'a spoke of -
°/ Cor, !lc a; cllt> and M s
whether he fought the* wi( .T> 1
f*ord, I looked at Mr. ]_y ' "
his countenance had not /'
peflcd bee ?2?fc.-
q^T,/hcnlfhh
w<dd, he does not hear you, or he ,
obfcrvaiion to mj. A little time e "
G. moved his fpt and laying Lis h-
Iy on the arm,of Mr. L. to draw 1
tiou, laid to hiOi, if you went in tr
licit you would not bj able to ca
lentimpots of the '
Mr. L. said he kneiV the people of
t.cut, and that hp had a notion to go £4
set .up a pref, m that ft a , e and TJI
on their °wn ground ; then Mr. G. contS
u.ng ht, band on MK L' s 3rm ,
when he went into Conned,'cut to take tW
wooden sword he got in th e W, or wor ,"
to that effeft, upon which Mr. \ f p ; t ; n
his face. I observed Mr. & take ore step
back, and ftiffcn Ins arm, f, that I exoec
ted a blow would be the
on? of his colleagues ftegt up to him Jn £
raid we bad better take time to cos&det 0?
this ; I said, this is neither a proper time
nor place, wnen Mr, G. and his 'W Jf
walked away. Mr. Brookes com «- C
obftrvmg that his testimony diff, -d f r:
the speaker's only as a part _di(L -d Va®
the whole, and that what he had
was dated with perfeft accurac
speaker, and of course he did aqt iisk it
necessary to go as much into detail at
therwife would have done.
Mr. Macon. Did not Mr. L)
that the people of Connecticut were c* •
ed by thi printers?
A. He said that the reprefenta.'
Connefticut deceivtd their conrtituei
adminiftered opiates tp them; thaiv
should go there he would nudecei*e,tiK.
that only one fide was permitted to be pub
lifhcd in Conne&icut; T do not know whe
ther he said absolutely, that the printers
would only publilh on one fide.
» Mr. Harper. Did Mr. G. exprefehim.
felf with anger or did he appear jetting?
A. He spoke with the most perfect good
humor. There was nothing in bis manner
' irritating.
Mr. Clay. How often did you hear Mr.
G. mention the wooden sword. I think
1 the speaker said three times.
Mr. Speaker. I only heard ,t,he expref
: fion twice.
Mr. Brookes. Only twice; fit"
■ fitting, then when fta*ding by Mi
' Mr. Lyon. You said you knew 1
3 meant by the allusion to the wbode
- then did you expedt that I could
• allusion cooly ? , . .
, miTWer ; this:»« - '
' opinion; 20 different gentlemen v
6 received it in 20 different ways. •
Mr. Lyon. Did you expeft fc'>* j*'
terrupt the good humor or not.
• A. This is not a proper qutftip. .
i matter of opinion. However, I .-'ll .
• serve in answer, that I, heard so n>u;h t .
» the wooden sword, and of the con v'
l of which the speaker fpdke, that . 0
e ered the aHufion as hot intended to
h and if X bad thought that the cons
n which have followed would have'folio wed,, I.
e certainly would have caatipned , Mr, G. tiot
to repeat the question: I did not expeft it
e would have been resented, at least op th 4
S floor.
r- Mr. Brent. From the knowledge yoa
had of the circumftance4 of the story of th«
3, woqdea sword, did you fpppofe the gentle
>t man from Vermont would bear allusions to it
s- without being irritated ? This is a proper
p question ; to which a plaia answer ought to
be given.
r. Messrs. and Otis contended the
question was improper. Mr. Brent defend*
*- ed its propriety. The chairman declared it
1- improper. _ f
1- Mr. Macon appealed from the dec r '
y the chair, on the ground that there
ie order of the house, faying that tht
r. man should determine on the propi
-e queilions. The
of was confirmed 58 to 35, and Mr.
i- question was, confequeutly, not pal
at Mr. Nicholas. Was not the circu
;n of the wooden sword, in the pubi *
er and piivate converfatiens mentionei
ft graceful to Mr. Lyon ?
Ie A. I never did consider it as ver;
ed ful. I did consider it as difgracefu
mi Mr. Nicholas. Was it not m»nl
of the publication, ori this fubje£t, alw
hs a view of injuring Mr- Lyon,
itj A. I was not the author of tho
in cations, of course Ido not know w
:rs viev/tbey were mad«.
eir Mr. Nicholas. Did they not carry that
eir appearance?
nd A. Yes. .
as, Mr. Gallatin. Had you any previous
ey knowledge of Mr. Lyon's feeling oaths
:n- fubjeft in question ?
ars A. No previous knowledge whatuyer,
ith Mr. Gallatin. When Mr. Grifvrold and
e ; his colleague walked away, did the member
o from Vermont Hay, and w*e there any o>b
ins verfation among the wituefies tue .a
ice took place. ,
tad A. Mr. G. and bw cdl«g.«e.left w
fet bar j and .I I Mere the house ; Mr- S P fa,ce '
vas also left the bar. and I said to Mr. L. w
to remained ; 70U ,nto troub.e. He
did answered, "he provoked me. I TtpheOire
he would not do to rereoge provocations m Ui»-
her P a Mr.' Gallatin. By my former
aid I wMied to know whether tou '"emembfr
:rc. Ed any thing which applied to the speak«
the after the fatt occurred.
out After foroe objedion to this question z*
rly, j improper and irrevelant.
ori- Mr. Speaker expressed his furpnze .nr
| Penofylvani? did not *u
ilion to him, of the:r from New-York. 'He then asrfww
if'.{ faying* l^at no words efeaptdbis lips 1
the tranfaftion bat four,—
it too much."
y Gallatin fa id his reason for not afk
e speaker thequeftion, wa* that he had ;
rlariy ttated even his feelings- at the
the tranfaftion, and that he -ftippo
■refore, he had ttated all he did re- ,
, and that therefore, it was probable
1 forgotten the circumstance upon ,
he wished the information.
R. Williams. You have said, that
Vlr. G. mentioned the wooden fwotd ,
. ought it a prefllng question. Why
l think it a pre Ring qneftion.
Shephard coneeivcd the question im
.< Witueffes were never aflccd foe
• idea*, impressions or opinion ; but
ii. \) iily.
V Nicholas put the fame question in
rm. What fafts were within year
c :dge, that made you consider this as
3 ; ingTqueftwn.
R.'Williams laid he conceived that
i witness spoke of certain imprcflions
made en hh mind it was proper to
: what circumstances led to those im
js. '
Breaks. I said it was a pressing que-
TUis was the firft ward that occur- :
It malt firike every gentleman, that j
iroate to another thas he has been
ed from the army, whether it he done
, ly or in earned could not be a plea
ieftigr. But it did not strike me, un
cireumftances, that it woflld have
the circumstance it has produced.
: committee rose, repotted progress
e house adjourned.
Tuesday, February 6.
Macon thought the experience of yefter
1 id proved, that the mode adopted in the
lotion of witnefTcs on the fubjeft of the
of the committc of privileges, was not
i. In his opinion th? ceurfe adapted in
lir of Whitney and Randal wouid be far
ft', tble. He therefore proposed the fallow
nion:
efolVed, That when the house are exam
he report ef the committee of privileges
jd inft. every question propounded to a
msmber by a witness, (hall be reduced to writ
ing, arrd a motion be made that the fame be put
by the speaker."
This motion, after a few observations, was
negatived 53 to 3a.
The Speaker laid before the hoafe a report »f
the secretary of the treasury, in purfuanee of the
references which had been made to him on the
fubjeft of a light, prayed for on Eaton's Neck,
near the harbour of Newport, Rhode-Island,
and with refpefl to certain buoys to be placed
ill thfc said harbour. He recommends the raea
fure, and dates that a sum not exceeding io,ro 1
dollars will be necefiary for the former objedl,
and a sum not exceeding 1,500 dollars for the
letter. This report was referred to the com
ii;■ tee if t immerse and man»faflure», with in-
Si> jift.o.".. ;• report by bill or otherwise.
• ■ i per, from the committee of ways and
'SSSt.'™-de a report on the petitions of Mat
'onaKi, . .. •
its of Rate, treasury and war, recom
-r3<iir.' .-.n addition to their salaries ef one hun-.
- making the salary allowed to each
rs in the whole. Referred to the com
,ei the whole to whom has been referred
uking appropriations for the support
nment for the year 1798.
m| 1 . Foster, from the committee of claims,
jade an unfavourable report on th» petition of
XoCah Wood, who prayed for payment for oer
ta)o supplies fnrnilhed during the wa.. —Con-
curred in by the house.
1 Mr. Otis presented a memorial from'the rope
tnalcers and ccrdage manufaift of Ballon.
jWaying for encouragement to their bjlinefs.—
Jttcftrred to the committee of commerce andmi
imfaiSures.
Mr. Sitgreavn, from the managers appointed
tQ conduft the. impeachment agamft William
faid, he was direfled to inform the
house cliat, io confluence of official arrange
riVents roi'd" for the puroofe, the managers
•would exhibit the articles of impeachment to the
senate, to-morrow at 11 o'clock.
The house theß again refol veditfelf inte.a conf
mitttcofthe whole oft thereport of thecommittea.
nf privileges, on the dispute betwixt Mr. Lyo»
and Mr. Grifwold, Mr. Dent in the chair ;
whets Mr. Hofmer, from New-York, proceeded
to give his evidence which differed a little, as
far as it went' from that delivered by the
speaker.
Mr. Dana was next called upon. Mr. D.
said his feelings were pretty ftrongiy intereftad
IE the business before the house ; and as there
. were o'her gentlemen more particularly ac
-1 with th«-trinfa<S!ion, for reasons which
! isfa<2ory to himfelf, he would rather be
. t from giving an account ps the business,
it should be deemed neceuary. He said
and sive» his teflimony before the commit
rivilegesrand it had occasioned some un
remarks. He had, therefore, no de
, ila.ee himfelf in the fame situation again,
led he fhouM be excused.
some few observations from different
rs,the sense of the committee was taken
übje£i, and it was againfi his being ex
- Dana, from Conneflicnt, then gave his
e. ft differed principally from that of
:-r members, in giying an account of the
converlation which pifTed between him and Mr.
Lyon before the Speaker cameupto them & cau
tioned themtobecool. Thisconverfatioß,it seems,
arose from Mr. Williamsof N. Y. having told Mr
Dana, that Mr. Lyon had said to him, " that
the reprefeatatives from Connedlicut would all
be turned out, if they voted against Mr. Nicho
las's amendment." Mr. Dana questioned Mr.
Lyoii on thefubje<3, and Mr« Lyon replied that
he bad not said so, but " but that they wouM
all be tßrnfid out, if they carried their point,"
and it was afterwards explained to be " that the
grefident flbsuld baye power to appoint men to
offices where the appointments were not autho
riftd by law." Xht warmth which the Speaker
•f.terrKDfed, was principally occasioned by the
olleldenying and the other maintaining that this
was theobjeft of Mr. Nicholas's motion.
Mr. Ccit, from Conncftiftit, was nyct called
upou. His evidence was left full and particu
lar than any of the preceding, as he pfofefTed he
but little notipe of the conversation which
ie heard paffiug. a*-V
Judge Chipman, a senator from Ver'niont,
-ras next examined. His evidence principally
went tppcove the manner in which he had heard
the 'Moden ftucrd, and the cafnierir.g of Mr.
Lyon, spoke of in the flzte of Vermont, and the
manser in which Mr. Lyon bore it. lfe refer
red particularly totwo conversations which took
;-lace in corapanies where I'c was prefect with
4'r. Lyon, and the fiibjcA was introduced. In
t'jc firft of which he haC itroduccd it without
j'viug any cffet.ce ; .m.the athcr he ftatcd, that tt
| Mr. Lyon said," that he should take no notice e ,
| of any thing which Ihould.be/aid <ipon the fob- . C(
jt-.fl in that part of the country; but if any one ,
ftiould infalt him with it it Philadelphia, it ,
iiiould not pnfs with impunity."
Mr. Goodrich, from Conneilicnt, now rose fc
to state what he knew of the fubjefl. His<t*f- )
timonv related to what'palTt'd betwixt Mr. Ly- j 0
on, Mr.Otis, Mr. Ghampiin and himfelf, in I r£
' the stage from New-York to this city, which
had reUtion principally to Mr. Lyon's having
j bean caihiered, and his havings worn the ivooi- a !
■I en f vjord, which he himfelf had, in a. great de- „
gree, voluntiriiy given them an account of.
Mr. Ch'amplin, from Rhode-lllasd. was next
i called npoii ; but, upon hi s declaring that hiseVi
de.-ice was exactly to the fame qffcS with that jui
delivered by Mr. Goodrich, he did fiot think li
ncccffary. to take up the time of the committee
witli delivering it, and hoped he ihould be excused.
The committee excused him.
Mr. Lyon understood general Sumpter, from
South-Carolina, could give some information to
the committee ;he ceqaefted therefore, he might '
be (worn. „
Mr. Sumpter declared he knew nothing of (he
htiQnefs, except what he had heard from Mr. Lyon
soon aft»r the affilir happened.
After some observations, however, Mr. Sumter y
was sworn, and proceeded to give a narrative of o
' whit Mr. Lyon fai<! t« hin>; when he was inter
rupted by Mr, Bayard, who declared his evidence
incompetent; as it »uas not only htarfay rvideme, j"
but came from one of the parties.' If was argued,
on thebther hand, by MeiTrs. Nicholas and Galla
' I tin, that, it had been d«ubted whether Mr.Lyon t
' j had heard Mr Grifwold when he firft mentioned e
1 the wooden fworij, the »vidence of Mr. Sumpter.
. would go to (hew tl-tt he did, ai Mr. Lyon told
him so, immediately after the affair hippened.
It was at length agreed, that that precise quef-
" , t'ron should be put to Mr. Sumpter,viz Whether 1
: j Mr. 1 yon told hin» that he heard Mr. Grifwold i
address him twice on the fubjeit of the wooden c
1 (word ?" which Mr. Sumpter anlwered in the affirj, t
mative. ™ ,
The Speaker enquired of Mr. Sump er, if hr J
knew the moment at which the insult was commit- 1
ted, and how long time elapf d betwixt chat and j
the petiod at which Mr. had spoken to him 1
1 on the fuhj«S ? .
: Mr.Sumpter declaring he did notknow preciftly
t the time at which the iniult was offered ; but that
1 he believed from the agitation of Mr. I,yon, it was
just before he spoke to him on the fubjefl. I
The Speaker again aflted him, whether he knew
Mr. Lyon did, or did sot, orcosld, or could not,
. have spoken to any other member, before he spoke
. to him ? ' !
t Mr.JSumpter declared he could not be certain of t
this. j
At the request of Mr. Lyon, general Varnum ;
wat fworn 1 , but a motion being maie for the
mittee to rife, no question was put to him.
PENNSYLVANIA LEGISLATURE. 1
House of Representatives. 1
» February 1.
Mr. S. Maclay reported a bill to declare '
' Pine Creek a public high\*iy, which was |
read and made the order of the day for this 1
f day week. j '
Mr. Kennedy laid a resolution on the table, <■
■ that bills or resolutions which have been '
j made the order of the day past, shall be •
next in order, which was read and adopted. I
The houfeagain rcfolved itfelfinto a com- '
rrittee of the whole on the bill to turnpike (
tl /*" • * rpi LI 1 !- Prcfton in the '
- chair. The committee role, rcjA..-r£ -- r
1 grefs, and a Iked leave to fit again, which 1
was granted. i '
February 2. !
r Mr. Pwtor'prefented two petitions from I
a number of the citizens of Huntingdon '
f county, praying the aid of the legislature ]
- in favour 0/©ickinfoh'College, which were
* read and referred. * ■ : 1
Mr. Worral presented a petition from a
namber of. the citizens of Frankford, pray-
ing Frank-ford ind Taconi ereeks may be
declared public highways, which were read
and. referred to the members from Philadel
d phia county.
1 Mr. Watson presented a petition from
e Joseph Paxton, praying the refloration of
" his estate, which was tonfifcated during the :
c late revolution, which was read and referred
ta Meflrs. G«rney, Smilie, Eyedy, Pref
- ton and Foulk.
«- Mr. Shnyder predated a petition from a
* number of the citizens of Northumberland
| county, praying a fattf* of money may be
granted them to ifnprove the road leading
e from Snnbary to Harrifburg, which was
read and referred to the committee on roads
I. and inland navigation.
d Mr. W. Maclay made a report in favor of
e the petition of the Trustees of Northum
k berland Academy
e Mr. Gurney reported in favor of the me
!f morial of the TrufteesofDickinfon College,
d The house again resolved itfelf into a
commmittee of the whole on the German
'■ town turnpike bill, Dr. Preston in the chair
'' —the bill was agreed to with sundry a
' mendnicuts.
t February 3.
n Mr. Hiltzheimer presented a petition
[- from Steiner and Kammerer, praying addi
tional compensation for printing the German
IS . minutes, which was read and referred to the
' committee of accounts.
Mr. Harris presented a petition from a
number of the citizens of Mifflin county,
s, praying a Turn of money maybe granted
r them for the improvement of the navig?ti
lt on of Bald eagle and Spring creeks, which
" was read and referred to the committee ou
roads and inland navigation.
t " ¥he house resolved itfelf into a committee
d of the whole on a bill supplementary to the
' "aft to prevent exportation of bread aad.
e flour not merchantable and for repealing at
0 a certain time all the laws heretofore made
I" for that purpose," Dr. Preston in the chair.
1 After so.me time spent, the committee rose,'
s reported progress, and aflccd leave to fit a
gain, which was granted,
d The house resolved itfelf into a committee
of the whole on a supplement to the a&
£ entitled, "an aft for incorporating the so- .
•ciety formed for the relief of diftrefled and
decayed pilots, their widows and children,"
y Dr. Leib in the chair, which bill was a
d greed to.
The house again resolved itfelf . into a:
e 1 committee of the whole on a bill for the re
' lief of Jouathau Bayard Smith and Peter
y, Wikoff, Dr. Preston in the chair, the coft
n mittee rose, and theibiU was rc-,committed.
it The house resolved itfelf into a commit-
tee of the whole cir. s bill to tit inn! the pow. c<
ers of the judges of the Supreme court and a!
' common pleas, Dr. Frefloo in the chair, J 1 !
the committee rose, reported JJrogrtfs, pad
j a(ked leave to fit again, which wa3 granted
forTuefday next. v;
I The hotiferefolved itfelf iuto?/committee as
jof the whole on a bill to repeal the aft to w
rcgtflate fences ?nd errttntrage thf railing of x \
Swine, Dr. Leib in the chair ; the bill was
agreed to. Adjourned.
" ■ ■ ' b.
X!je ©a?ette. ..j
Z~~ I
WEDNESDAY EVEN Ima,: iZBHUAJir 7- ' c ,
MARRIP.B—I afl evening, Tiy the Right iJev
erewi Biiliop White, Mr. Jami> West, of 'Balti- rj
more, merehaot, t» Miss Buodott, daughter of
Samuel Bledgst, Efij of tbn city. I 1
■ «
DIED— On Thursday, the iA-infr»in the 55th *
■ year of his age, AssAflAM {Jgden , Esq. Attorney *
F of the United States for the 'dtftriA of New-Jersey. "
.' ■ ' a
; The committee of the Senate of Penn- °
fylvania on the fubjeft of the «ontefted dec- t(
; tioji of Israel Israel, brought in a report %
: this day, which is against the validity of his n
I eleftion.
r _ /' si
1 'By the (hip Fair American, capt. Tred- J;
well, was brought a large reflecting tele-
r fcopc, for the college of New-Jersey. It t
1 is four feet in length, rffid (eveA inches in f
1 diameter, and fitted up for celestial obferva- t
. forms the last of twelve packages soritain-' V
- ing a neat and various apparatus for philofo- \
i phical experiments, the gift of the state to
1 the college. c
e
1
t -U COMMUNICATIONS. *
3 Mr. Monroe mull be tokgN in the pofi- f
tion he has placed himfelf;' byilis hook.— '
" Mini/lers have been, in Congrefi, and elffe- - c
e ' where, called honorable or privileged /pits, t
at a foreign court, for their own court or i
if country. An appeal is made to every un- -
prejudiced man who has read Mr. Monde's !
1 book, whether he has not reversed this or- 5
x der; whether he did not, throw himfelf f
into the cabinet of France*' tutored for that ,
purpose, by certain honorable fpies'of Frtnce t
here ; and throughout his emhaffy contin- i
we to govern hitn&lf by the information de- f
rived from these spies. Certain it is, he j
e never afled upon, or according to his in- |
s ftruftions ; and was always industrious (by (
s inuendo in. favor, of and fchettles )
for raising loans fer France, and entertaining 1
t apojlates while writing the most falfe and '
r) scurrilous attacks on the Jirfi charaSer in this 1
e or any other country, Wajhington) to
promote the views of France ; even did
. they extend to destroy the neutrality a«d
. endanger the peace and independence of his
e own country.
h if not dishonorably -
.of his country. The faction have now, no
ambaflador in France. -Quere—Does not
n this account for the strong attempts of the
n exclujive patriots, in a cert sin house to com- 1
e pel the executive to nominate another of the
e fame kidney, to be not the mini ft er of A
merica, but their mini tier,
a
r. It is observed by a Correspondent that Mr. ]
re Lyon furnifhed the means as his awn con
i demnation, as to former chara&er, before
1- the committee of privileges, even if there is
nothing behind, as has been somewhere hint
■n ed, of exciting the foldierc to mutiny. As
if the late affair in the House of "Reprefenta- 1
ie i tives may affe& our national charafter, ih
d that t>f our legiflatute, and *of which too
f- few Americans are at this day fufficiently
tenacious, it it to be lamented ; otherwise
a it may do good, becatife the punifhmeat of
d an offending member, will tend to retrain 1
ie such lorn and dijorderiy behaviour ia others. '
g He further obftrves* -it is remarkable that
% the Jacobin Jpirit is never fjtigfied with a '
Is fettled and orderly state of foeiety, even ' J
when they are at the head and have-the pow- 1
»f er in their own hands. They wi(h to de
-- nounce when they are opj»»fed in their '
views, and UJI fhould.be opposed. Thii '
has been fully exemplified \Vithin a few years 1
pad. The spirit is the fame every where,
a When thay have the power, they come for- '
1- ward at once, afld attack the citadel; when
ir they are " the virtuous minority" they begin
»- at a distance to found the alarm, and after-
Wards grow more desperate. This is evin
ced in the conduA of the corps in the prope
in fed amendment on the Foreign Interconrfe
i- Bill, The proceeding of jhe patty in this
,n bufineCs more clearly proves to the mind of
ie our correspondent tjle truth of th« observa
tion, " that it is not so much a dislike to
a Great-Britain or a love sot France, as a.deep
f, rooted hatred both ta our Oonfctution and Go
d vernment.
h A correspondent mqft earnestly solicits
u the members of the house of repreftnta
tives for their own and their conntry's ref
•e f>e&ability, that they will not spin out a te
le dious acrimonious debate on the fcautfalous
d business now before them, whjch certainly
it would spread wider and Wider the disgrace
e unfortunately attached to the occurrence
r. without any poflible advantage.
-
1- From Yovnq's Ess at son Rs^psvtions.
1
:e Under every government ther»\vill always be
a number of dilconteoted persons. Ambitious
men, who thirfl for power, for places, or for
, 1 penfisns, wi'l always rail against thj,t adminif
® tration in which they are not allowed to bear a
pirt; ani will revile those envy.
Impious man, wh#> tratirple upon the authority
of" God, impugn his religion, and perhaps de
al ny his being, can never be expefled peaceably
to fubirit to the authority of their felio_w-crea
~ ture's. Men who have fprnt their own in ex
travagance and diflipaticn, and fee ijo other
way to furnilh themselves w;itsi thefj. <n
!• cinuing the fame conrfe of life. »n- h a
t- trieve their fortunes by ; S
V
convulfloßs is the fti'-f. iic whofi: confdenco ( w
allowed bim tu .'o under what v. «s bis own,and «
perhaps inuc«! that never was l»i». ovtit, u uit'eel
tittle remerfe teUni«KlVhim-
•fcif witfj the ftioil* ot hi/ country. Men «d
- tbofe crimes wbivb the laws of *ll ci
vilized nations will readily ci*y out 0
"aganft the laws, as unj'ift ; ani sjiudt those o
who exotute rh«+!3, as fcyraniiK-al. The thief n
wilf coinplsfn itTe # cannot fteai with impuni- [:
ty ; the liigh.uayn.an may thir.L it hard that g
he cjnYh.t'ijHeW Ms calhi.g-uadiftuibc.Li anil ?
the dv-al r in uncuftuiited niay grumble
becauU - crienei It is c *
lMt t»:be-worJ<wd"at..lf-f. en'heneil rr;en co»n- r<
plain of those burdei'S, wirich from their peeu- h
liar, cirrumftances, fall upon t!:emfclves w
.The VVeii-fndia merchant r»aV complain of the
Vuiies cp. fucar. and fin ; diftilier, the tal
low rlftpil'rtT. and othere-i» similar circumttati ' .
ces, may be dii'atisficd with tKe excise laws ;
and so on. When, among any of these et?tles t
of men,, there arises a person of a turbulent tpi- o
ci;, end capable,<-f speaking or writing phufi- e
bly, he may easily vaife a fermentation in the e
minds of well meaning labourers and m?cban- a
ics ; who by th'eir fifjati. n in life have little !
ro read,to think, or to know jrmch
aboutraaitcrs of goverrtmeht. This he will
find the more easy, if he catches the time whee i
an accidental fcarcitv of provision or Halation t
of trade, deprives them of .employment or of j
bread. He will teli them all this is owing
to government ; that they will never be better (
"whilethe prelent continue'! ; a:)d that
rtothing but a revolution will keep them from
ftarvinft. Nor is it any wonder if tlny : in the j
simplicity of their hearts, believe him ; an l all
■cry out for a change. BuJ, if we rgufl have a
revolution whenever such things as these hap
pen, no nation on earth will be a yeir with ir
them ; and that government which is mrtfl
1 friendly to liberty will always be foonell ovc;
• turned becaufc a government reallv tyrannical
i 'would difpateh the man withoutcercntony, am!
perhaps without.noise, who (hould attem, t to
inflame people's mintkby their writings /rfpeech
es; so that few would venture to give fuchi ,11m
-1 fcrage ; and the means circulating dilcantents
or forming combinations, would be very limit-,
ed. As tto vfrtfe man will begirfto buiM a houfi-;
till he ftrft fit down Stcount theeoH; ff no wife
people will -attempt to overturn their govern
ment ,t II theyhiveferioujlyweigbedthcconjrqven
ccs. and have at, lejfl, a probability that the
"cure will not he worse than the dilcafe- And
' though tfiey Ihoufd at last perhaps be furcefstul
r iii' the flruggle, how much blood and treasure
- wiH be expended ; and whir'accumulated ca
-5 families mutt be fuflitred before the end Can be
gained ? The Dutch ptoviaces were not ernan
c cipated, till after a war of forty years, in which
millions of lives were loft, and njany millions of
; money. They often ftiffered miseries during
: the contest, that we catthot fee human nature
supporting without aftonilbmeiit. All this, no
doubt, redounded to their honor, when at last,
, their Lyon emerged free, But would they not
have been arrant fools, if they had exposed
themselves to all this for no cause ; or on ac-
T count of some tjrifling inconvenience. Surely
3 before we bring ourselves into such a situation,
f we Ibould seriously consider, whether any evils
1 we faffer, are equal to those to which we would
a expose ourselves ?, or whether- that which we
( seek after, is of that importance, as, on its ac
, count, to put to hazard at once what we enjoy
and what we may fuffer ?
' (To be continued.)
i 1 1 —-
' n 1 rl?; gff * cm B- J JS.T
3 PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.'
r v ARRIVED.
Ship Harmony, Price, Cadiz—paiT not known.
. Two Friends, Glenn» Amsterdam
Schr. Frederic. Packet.Pearce,Malaga Yia N Y
Sloop Betsey, Bufher, Alexandria
Harriet, New-York
The veff l reported as being ashore near Bil
• lingi'port, proves to be the ship Pniljiijelphia,
Dove, botfnd to St. Bartholomew, and not the
c Venus, Felt, as Hated" last evening,
s
Ne<w-T\>rk, February 6.
s ARRIVED. DAYS.
Ship Betsey, Moore, Calcutta
, Matilda, Jones, IfleofMay 28
, S«br. Antelope, Pepper, Norfolk 4
j ditto 4
s Bird, Philadelphia
f The following information is' handed by
the unforuiuate mate of the brig Dorcas,
of Washington.
t The brig Polly, Wm. Backhouse master,
i arrived on. Friday from Savannah La Mar
, (Jamaica,) at this port. On the 18th Jan.
_ in -tfee Gulph, was brought to by the priva
•'eerbrig Lark, of New Providetlce, who
on the izth uTt, fell in with the brig D«r
---l cas of Washington (N. C.) Captain Na
s thaqiel Mitchel, on the Dry Tortugas,
. who had run on them the night before, and
_ hadjbecome a total wreck; the captain and
n 4 men (laye4 by her—the mate and 4 more
3 went on board the privateer. The mate
_ and two of the crew debarked from the pri
. vateer, and came in the brig Polly.
- "" Boston, January 31
% " Nantucket, Jan. 25, Mr. Ruflell, the
s wreck of the brig Lyon", of has
f gone to pieces on our shore.
Yours, W. C."
3 On Sunday arrived in Naiitafket roads,
b (hip Argo, Smith, Cadiz, 42 days. Pas
- fenger Mr. Duna, ofPortfmoth, who was
• supercargo of a vessel which was recently
condemned at Algeziras, where there have
s been several other late condemnations.—
1- Flour was very low at Cadiz. Left there
btig Joseph, from Boston, for Malaga;
- brig Byfield, Kinsman, of Boston, under
s Moorish Colours; fchr. , Atkins, ditto
y Ihip Madison, Hancock, Boston ; brig i
e Friendfltip, of Boston, failed ten days be
e fore captain Smith, for Niw-York, A
(hjp arrived from New-York 3 days before
failing. Captain Abramn of Marblehead,
bound to South America. January 10,
lat. 31, long. 57, spoke ship of
e New-York flom Virginia, bound to Lon
' den, 15 days out.
r Extra ft of a letter from Mr. Joseph
a Folger, mate of the ship Governor Bowdoin
j dated at Port Louis, Isle of France, 12th
y Oftober, 1797, to his owner here. After
> giving the particulars of the capture of that'
y Ihip, on the ill September, of Capedes
Arguilles (near the Cape of G. Hope)by
]' r a French 16 gun ship from Bourdeaux which
after taking out all the crew(i4 in mim
ber)txcept the csptain and four others, c»r
---( red the rctnair.d?r to the isle of France,
|
\ '
• • • ' • ' : * 1 .
' wUertf-t&ey arrtrcd onthe 3d o&t>'v ;<* ■
j " They took niyfclf and eight mors of u.>
j peorcle oiK with a guard, and cafriad U€ <f
board a priloii fiiip 1 after we had btea so
days iirlprifotud, they permitted me to j
on (Wre about my buiinefs v. itho;it vidiu.-• IJ
or clciathes, or a farthing of money to he! 1
tuyl&jf. In this '"fitti*tton I was kindly.u«
ceired by captain John Ctow.nin)hic!d,
Salem, and entertained on board his ilup'
and have had the like infitation from federal
caber American csmmanders. They still
retcain on bogrd the prison (hip. Our /hip
has not arrived here, but I am in hopes <he
will beiofoou.'"
Chartrjion, January 1 Jr.
Capt. Sprague from St Martins, informs
that the Ficnch exereife their fraternal aft#
of piracy upon the Americans with incre»f-> \
ed spirit. They fuffer no vxrffel to cfeape«
even when whtb bound to the ports of out 1
allies ; and rob and plunder all without dif»
crimination.
Thi (hip Eagle of New London, from aft
EnglWh port, bound home, had been carri
i ed into Si Martins, veflcl and cargo cendem
•• ned. '
The fchotmer Aurora, Appleton, of Bof
tori, from Boflon, bound to Curacoa,
| also carried in, and after a tedious and e**
penfire trial was liberated, witbout'any' fatii
i fadion for dctenfion, damages &c.
) The sloop Alexander of Baltimore, frpm
Barbadoes, put into St Martins, with a.
1 view of taking in a cargo of fait ; the ves
sel was taken poffcffioivof immediately: on
entering the port ; a gitard puton beardi
: the captain and his wife turntd onflhux-j;
3 without allowing them any thing for tUe.Uf
■ support
The > f<hoon«r Alligator, J-lowaNJ, of
* Philadelphia, arrived at Turk's Island, .on
the sth of January, 21 days fvoin Newi
; York.
Capt. Allen of the fhfp Flora, brought
>-• in the Captain and crew of the fchoonef
e Alice, of Richmond (Virg.) pani»l Bale,
'' master, which was wrecked on a -Reef off
' e Turks Island, on the 24th December, J OB
her passage from Martinique to Turks Ifl
,e and—vessel entirely loft, erew fayed.
1- Capt. Sprague, on the ift of January,
h lat. 24, It, long, 68, 90, spoke the sloop
Diana, Nicolls, frpm Alexandria, bound to
S St Domingo, out "to day*, having loft one
| 0 man overboard by the name of Townfent},.
t, ' 'Miui
I
Iy WEDNESDAY EVENING,
n > FEBRUARY 7.
' s Will be prjfented (for the last time) the COMIC
ld OPERA ft
£ Abroad and it Home ;
, Or, A TOUR Xlf THE KINGS BENCH.
To which will be added (not performed t'acfefour
years) a Comedy in two adls (written byGarrick)
called,
THE GUARDIAN. .
T ■ - Mr Hsartley, mr Marflult— Sir Charles Clack
. -jrr 1 «r «><«> liT^
vant, mr T Warrell
t' Harriet, mn Marth^ll —Lucy, mrs Bernard.
Canal Office, ,
n February 7, 1.79;.
AN adjourned meeting of the toctthoiders of
the Delaware and Schuyßti I Canal NaVigi
-1 tion, will be *t the tjompaity's office, oa
Friday iicx't. ar f * *m
l_ GEO. WORRALL, Secretary.^
February ■>.
k LosTt—Yefterday in the Market,
AN ORDER drawn hy ca.pt.ilicbard O'Brien,
favor of John l.arktim, on Mr. Tench Francis,
Purveyor of PHblic Supplies. , found
S- the fume i» to. leave it at ( homas Lajr.-i.
lum's, 23a south Ffont-ftreet, or at.thjs office..—*.
g Payment being flopped, it can be ot nn ufeto.artjf
one but the owner JFfb 7 _jt
4
4 ci?* Stop the Runaway.
ABSCONDED from hi* matter's employ, in the,
city of Philadelphia, on she sth of this is
s, ftant Febtaary, a Negro Man, named Mentor, a
beut 5 feet 6 or 7 inches in height, and of rather
r, a spare make ; his phifiogn my is vacan tiut not'
ir dil'-greeable; his age is supposed te be about 40.
He bad on when he went awajr, a ihort blue clofh'
coat, striped caffimere vtft, cordtiroy breeches,
a- and yarn (lockings of a blue and white mixture—
-10 he took with him a blue clotfc great coat, the cape
of which is edged with yellow binding ; a long 1 '
brown cloth coat ; a fkort blue cloth coat with
buff coloured cape and cuffs ; atf», a pair of blue
s> cloth breeches j the other cloatbos he took with
d him cannot be particularly dcfcribed.
id 's supposed, he intends goirtg to the eastern
re (hereof Maryland. Whoever will appreheod,and
secure the said negro in any gaol, ft. that his Wilder
may gethitu again, or bring him home, thai! have
'1- a reward of tWintv dollars.
Apply to the Printer.
February 7. . j
le Wanted,
as An atftive, cleanly, industrious woman to cook
artd do the business of the kitchen. Such a one
will be allowed good wages, and no other need ap
ply.—Enquire of the Printer.
s » February 7
f " IN
And fpccdily -will be Publiflted,
y For the ben»6t cf the
ve MARINE SOCIETY cf the UNITED STATJES,
A general plan and system of RejytilatioDs therein *
Cg Written atSSetm t in the year X 794 v
a . And now.nrinted
j. Br rns autkoh.
■" A N avt would be maintaiped but to an almost
to , useless purpefe which taking the seamen kept the
Ig 1 merchantmen idle in port, and trading vciTtfla
e- ! would be as unprofitably employed,, if they took
all thof'efeamen whofelki 11 and courage onboard ihips
of war, would give thfcnvpr. tedion. aid fec*re
their We har» enoujli for both pnrpofes,
1 , and tlie cultivating hand o! attention atone is want*
D, irj to multiply their numbr r. " Money may buy
0 f " aj: naval stores, except mariners; but, unlcfs a
n _ " f"ppl>" of them if preserved, no wealth will b#
" able to procure them "
t February 7.
in WANTED
th A young Gentleman to go
rr Doftor of a Ship to the Eaft-Indi s.
at ' . Enquire at No. 25 D.»,k Street.
es F? - b - 6 - diw
>y A Nurle's place wanted.
ch A WOM N just arrived from England, wants a
n . place as a Nurfeor atundact On the fsk, either on a
(l*. Gentlemaa or Ladv —Ifor furthtr ir.tormation apply
at No. to, South Fourth ft eet, near >la;ke street
e ' Feb - -• jf/ gt... a , L . im, N
PROPOSALS
FOR J
CARRYING THE PUBLIC MAILS s
on the following Post Roads will be re- ']
ccired'at the Csneral Post Office until
the 14th day of February next tnclufivc. hl
*
I. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, Neweaf- a[
Hi:, Camwell'a "bridge, Duck creek, Dover, Frrd
eriea, Miltord, Cloughs, Dagftor.iugh. Tra;>,
Snourhill, HorrttMvn and Accotuae. court house to
Northampton court hmfe throe tkoe» a week. r j
April Ito Sav:mt)tr 15. Leave Philadelphia ev
ery Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday at ia m, and x ;
arrrivu at Northamptoa court house on Thufday, t0
Saturday and Monday it pM- Returning. Leave g (
Northampton court house every Friday, Monday or
and Wcdaifday al nu, and arcivc at Philadel
phiaoo Monday, Wednesday and Friday by 7 I-» ),
(»• 5
November 15 h April I. Leave Philadelphia ev
ery foefdiy, ThutfHey and Saturday at' 6 am, at
and arrive at Northampton court house on Friday,
Monday and Wednesday by 7r «. Returning— j at
Leave Northampton cowt house every Saturday,
Tuesday and Thursday at 6 a m, and arrive at 1 l,
Philadelphia on Wednesday, Fuday and Monday ; lt
ky 7 r m. \ rl
VIRGINIA.
1■ From Northampton court hoofe to Nurfolk
three times a week. Gi
April I to November 15. Leave. Morthampttn [ 0
court house every Monday, Wednesday and Fri
day at 8 rm, and arrive at Norfolk i«, 24 hours. r ;,
Returning—Leave {Jarfoik every Wednesday, Fri- jvl
day and Mpnday a4a m, and arrive at Northamp- fa
ton court house in twenty four hours, r j
November 15 to April I. Leave Northampton by
court house everyTuefday, Thursday and Saturday an
at 3a m, and arrive at Norfolk in 14 h»ur*. He
turning—Leave Norfolk every Monday, Wtdaef
day and Friday by 4a u, and arrive at Northamp- on
ton court house in 24 hours.
PENNSYLVANIA MARYLAND- a n
3. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, N»w- ;„j
port,Chriftiarna.Middletown,Warwick andGoerge- ar
town crofc roads to Chefterftosira three ttaaesa week.
May Ito November 1. Leave Philadelphia every an
Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday by 9 p m, andar
r.ve at Cheftertown the next days by 8t m. Re- an ,
turning—Leave Cheftertown every Monday, We.l
nefday and Friday by 9p m, and arrive at Phiia- no
delphia the neit day* by 8 pm. ,
November I to May I. Leave Philadelphia eve- . t b>
jy Monday arid Friday by 9 a m, and arrive at ho
Cheftertown on Tuesday aud Saturday by 4 r m,
jtitarning—Leave Cheftertown every Monday and M)
Friday by 8 a to,, and arrive at Philadelphia on A
Tuesday and Saturday by 4 p u. Yo
MART LANIX Le
4. From Cheftertown by C«utervi!le, Eafton, at
Newmarket, VjcnjdU Salisbury, Snowball ami Erin- a 1
tth Ann to Sanfliury once a week.
RfC'tve the nuil at Cheftertown ev«ry Wedaef- ho
<hy at 7 am, arrive at Eafton by 4P m. Leave ha
Eallon on ThurfJay by 6a m, arrive at £>t)whil| La
Oil Friday by I P. M, and tut Princels Ann by 6 P.
v . Returning—LeavePrtncefi Ann 011 Saturday by a ri
jo a m , arrive at Eafton the rtip; day or Monday a ]
by 6p to Leave Eafcn on Tuifday by $ « M,aud er
kri We ;'t Cfu'iL'rtbWi fine day by 4 » «• no
5. From Har£»id by Bel--lit to the Black hoi fe
one a i#eek. ho
Lrave Harford every TutAiay by io a m, and
irriv a' Black horse by 6p m. Returning—Leave an
Kiackhorfe 011 VVedn fday by 6 a n, an<l m.
Harford the next Tuesday by 9 a m. at
P£NN$ YL VAN 14, M4Z-YL AND and VIR- da
CIS I ■+.
j, _St?ni.hv "rt u - VL 1 "'
Pa. once a week. , . on
Bah in. ore every Friday by 4 P m, arrive
at Bkckhorfc on by 10 a m, and arrive riv
at Voiktpwa-by 8 pm. Ratming— Leave York- Le
town every Thursday by 7 a'm, and arrive at Bal- Vt
timore on Friday noon. ' ' Le
; Frcm Yorktown by Hanover, PettrfoSrg, ci
Ta.ieytaß ar.d Frrdericlttowti to LeeJburg once a mi
week.
Leavt fodctawa every Mpntfcy *t« a m,arrive g v
at tredericktowft-on Tu fdayby 5 PM, andarnve w(
at Lrefburg on Wedntf'ay by 2? u. Rimming—
Leave l.eefburg every Friday at noon, ana arHve
it Yorktown by 6 P M on Sunday. ,
8. Front Yorktown by Abbotllown, Oettifburg,
FairficM. Elii.bethtown, Williaiufport, Martini-
VurK. Winchester, Stevexifbu-g and Surafburg to
Woodftock once a week.
Leave Yorktov.4l every Jay by «oon, arrive u
at Martiufburg on Tuesday by II am. Leave
M»"infl>urg on Tuesday noon and arrive at Wood- 1
ftotk on Wednesday by 6p m. Rtturning—Leave
Woodllock on Thursday by 6a u, arrive at Mar- M
tinfijurg 011 Friday by 11 a m, and arrive at York- P
town on by ham. T
9. From Pi tfburg by Cannonfburg, Warning- 01
ton, Wist Liberty aud Wheeling to the month of
Fifhips creek once a we«k (contrail for one year ] e
anly.) 01
leave Pittfburg every Friday at 9 a m, and ar-
Hv« at Filhing creek on Sunday at 9a m Return• „
mt—Leave Flfhir.g creek on Wednesday at 8a m, 0|
and arrive at Pittfburg on Friday at 8 a m. . j
to. From Wafnington by Brownsville andUflion r
to Morgantown once a -week.
Leave U-ion every Friday at 6 am, and arrive
at Washington by 6p m. Leave Walhington on
Saturday at 6 a m, arrive at Morgantown on Sun
day at 6P m. Leave Morgantown on.Monday at
8 a m, andarrive at Union by 3 P m.
n. From Baltimore by Frcdericktown, Elin- 31
fcethldwn, Greencaftle and Chamberfburg to Ship- Nl
tveTil))'Jtgoncea wetk. ®
Leave Baltimore every Friday by 11 a m, arrive L
tt l redericktown on Saturday by 10 a », attli- Ti
labethtown in the evening, and at Shippenfcurg # E
Oil Monday by 7t m. Returning— Leave Skjppenf- l<
bur S every Tu fday at 9 a m, arrive at Elizabeth
t,cwn at Bpm. at Frcdericl-.town on Wedne(day t]
noon, and at fcaltimore on l'hurfday hy jm. ,
MARYLAND. a
■ H. From F.liiabethtown by Hancock and Old- f
town to Cumherlsnd once a week . „
LraveCumbetland every Saturday by 6 A M.and
arrive at Eliaakethtown on Monday by 8 a u. t
Returning Leave Eliaafcethtown every Monday by
it A m, and arri.'e at Cumberland on Tuesday by (
13! From Baltijnore to Annapolis once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Monday at 8 a m, and
arrive at Annapolis by jp». Returning—Leave
Annapolis every Tuesday at 8a u, and arrive at (
Baltimore by 5 pm
-14. From Baltimore by Snfiapoln, Queen A»ni,
Upper Marlborough,Pifcataway.Porttobaceo, Si- <
lensfrofli, Newport and Chaptico to Lconardtown <
once a week. '
Leave Baltimore every Friday at to aM, irriK 1
at Annapol" at Jr u. Leave on Sa- I
tarday at 6 am, arrive at Upper Marlborough
by noon, arrive at Pil'cAtawjy by 6 1 u. * arrive at
Leonardtown every Monday forenoon bygo'clock. <
Return's —Leave Lconardtown every Monday *l3 1
f M arrive- at Plfcataway on Tuesday by 6P m '
ar-ive at Upper Marlborough on Wednesday ky
II a m andarrive at Annapole by 6 p Leave j
Annapolis on Thursday by 7 a x, and arrive at
Baltimoreb»3» «• ,
I - from Annapoln by Lower Marlr.orough,
Huntington and Calvert court home is St. Leon- }
arde once a wce*t.
Leave Annapoli' every Saturday s», and ,
a-riveat St. Leonard, on Monday 3 p R>- •
—Leave St. Leonardi every Monday at 4 j
r M , and arrive «Aerapolis the next Saturday by
6 From Bladenfturg by Upfir Marlborough, t,
• Not mgharn, Lower Marfcaroafh, .Acquafco,Bcn
' i nedvrt and Charbttehall to Chaptico oncca week, a
1 Lea,ve Bladenfburg ev.ry Saturday at 9a m, ar- i
rive,at Upper Marlborou§/i by noon and at Lower .5
MarlUoroughon Monday by srw, &at Chaptico 3
S by 6r « Returning —LeavcChapticoevcr/Tliail-
day at 6a w, and arrive, at Bladenfburg or. Satur- "
day at 6 a m. '
1 17. From Georgerawn by Montgomery court
house to frederiektown once a week. j
Leave Oeorgetown every Friday by 6 a m. and
vriveat Frcdericktown by 6 PW- Returnmg
Leate Psedericktown every Thursday by 5 a m,
" and arrive at Georgetown by 6p «. e
yiHGINIA. i
> iS. From Woodftock ky Newmarket, Roeking- f
' km court hnwfe, Staunton, Lexington and Fiuc«f- •]
tie to Big Li«k onde a week- e
Leave Woodftock every-Thurfday by 6a m, ar- -
' jive at Stauntdn on Friday at Ip m. Leave Sunn- p
> ton every Friday at 2 ru, arrive at Big Lick on U
'■ Sunday by II am. Returnmg—Leave Big Lick
' on Sonday by Ip m, arrive at Staunton every Tuefj
day by II am. Leave Stauntom by 12 o clock a
1 )noon) and arrive at Woodftock 011 Wednesday by v
5 P Me
19. Prom Big Lick by Montgomery court house 2
> aad Wythe court house to Abingdon once a week. 11
• Leave Big Lick every Sunday at Ip m , arrive 1
1 ' at Wythe eonrt house on Tuesday by 2 p sr. and at f .
■ Abingdon on Wednesday by 6 pm. Returning— ,
Leave Abmgdon every Thursday by 6 a arrive
'j at Wythe court house on Friday by 2 pa, and ar- a
rive at Big LickonSuaday bv 11 a m. t)
TENNESSEE. c
20. From Abingdon, Vir. by Jan ib ir.iugh
Greenville,Moffat's ftore'andJe/ferfan court boale t
to Knoevilie once a week. f
f Leave Abincdon every Thursday by 6a m, ar- j r
rive at Moff*tsilote on by 8.1 -4. Le?ve 1
Moffats 9a m, andarrive at Knoxville on Sun- r
day by ro a m. Returning—Leave Knoxvillc eve
ry Sunday by 1 F m, arrive at Moffat* on Monday
by 3t m. Leave Moffats • n Monday at 4p m,
and arrive at Abingdon on Wednesday by .7 pm, 1
VIRGINIA. ''
ai. From Wincheflar by Romney to Moorfields
once a week. ■ ' (
Leave Winchester every Tkurfday it 6a m, and (
arrive at Moorfield ®n Friday by 6P M. Return- (
ing—Leave Moorfiejd c tfry Saturday at 8a u, and f
arrive at Winchester on-Sunday by 6 PM. y
I>. From .Alexandria by Centerville, Leelburg
and Shepherdftown to MartinJburg once a week. \
Leave Alrxandria'every Wednesday at 9 a m, \
and arrive at MartinfHurg cn Friday by ion. 1
Returning—feave Martinfbnrg every Fridcy by (
noon & arrive at Alexandria oil Monday by 7 am. <
43. From Frederickfliburg by Port Royal, Lay- 0
I tbna, Tappahannock, Urbanna and Gloucelkr court "
1 house to Yorktown once a week-
Leave Frederickfburg every Wednesday at 6 a
: m, arrive at Tappahannock on ThirtMay by 11
am. Leave Tappahannocn at noon and arrive at
Yorktown on Saturday by 11 am. Returning— v
Leave Yorktown every Saturday at 1 PM, arrive
at Tappahannock the next Monday noon andarrive a
31 Fr .derickfkurg on Tuesday by J P M. I
24. From Tappahannock by Richmond court g
house, Weftir.orehod court henife, Kinlale, farn
ham church and Northuasberlaud court house to si
Lancaster court house once a wee k t;
Leave Tappahannock every Thursday noon and'
arrive at Laneafter court house on Saturday by 11 1
am. Returning—LeaveLancafter court house ev- S
ery Saturday by 1 PM. and arrive at Tappahan- '
noek on Monday by 11 a m.
25. From Frederickfourg by Culpeper
house & Orange c. h. to Charlottefvilleonce a week.
Leave Frederickfburg every Tuesday at 10 am, r '
and arrive at CharlottefviUe on l'hurfday by 11 a
m. Returning-*-Le»ve CharlottefviUe on Saturday
at 8 PM, and arrive at Frcdericklburg on T»ef- a
day by 6 a m.
26.. From Ricbnv>»d by Gooeblaßd CQlirt- ,
. t.T.r. n 1 1 i_tu—l " Tr - rH -> - Stinntnn 1
once a week. .1
Leave Rielimona every Tuesday at 1 f m, ar
rive at Charlottel'viile-on Fiurfday by 11 AM. 1
Leave CharlottefviUe bv noon and arrive at *
Staur.tan ou Friday by II am. Returning—
Leave Staunton on Saturday by 6A M, strive at f
CharlottefviUe by 7 pm, and arrive at R'lth- ]
mond the next Tuesday by 9 A M. 9
27. Frum Staunion by bath cpurt-honfe and
Sweet Springs to-Greenbrier court-house once a ;
week. 1
Leave Staunton ever) Saturday at 6a m, and '
arrive at Greenbrier court-house on Tuesday by
6 pm. Returning—Leave Greenbrier court- '
house every Monday by 9 am, and arrive at ,
Staunton on Thursday by 8 P M.
28. From Charlottefvile by Warren, War- ,
minder, New-Market, Araherft houfe, |
Cabellfburg, and Maddifon to Lynchburg cuce
a week.
Leave CharlottefviUe every Thursday at I p
m.'and arrive at Lynchburg on Saturday at 6
■ P M. Returning—Leave Lynchburg every
Tuesday by 6 a m, and arrive at CharlottefviUe
• on Thursday by 10 A M.
f 29. From Richmond by Hanovertown, Ay
■ letts and Todds to Tappahannock once a
or if carried in ftagei at often a» they (hall run.
Leave Richmond every Wednesday at 5 A M,
' arrive at Todds at 3P M, and at Tappahannock
> on Thursday at 11 A m. Returning—Leavt
- Tappahannock on Monday at i p m, aad ar
-1 rive at Richmond on Tuesday by 5 r M,
30. From Richmond by Hopkins'e, Powha
tan courtjioijfe, Cumberland court house, Prince
Edward court house and Lynchburg to New
t London, once a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 8 A M,
. arrive at Prince Edward on Wednesday at 6 P
. m, and arrive at Lynchburg on Friday at 8A M,
and at New-London by 10 aM. Returning—
e Leave New-London every Friday at 2 P M, ar
- rive at Lynchburg by 5 p M, arrive at Prince
g_ Edward on Saturday by 7. P M, and arrive at
1- Richmond on Monday by 4 P M.
31. From New-London by Liberty to Fincaf
-1 tie once a week.
, Ltave New London every Friday at IP M,
and arrive at Finrallle cn Saturday by i t m.
Returning—Leave Fircaftle on Monday at 5 A
M, and arrive at New Ltindon on Tuesday noon,
d 31.. From Liberty by Rocky Mount to Mar
'• tinviHe once in two weeks.
V Ltave Liberty every other Saturday at $ A
' M, and arrive at Martinville on Sunday by 6 P
M. Leave M.c'tinville on Monday by 6 AM,
j and arrive at Liberty on Tuesday by 6 pm.
, e 33- From, Prince Edward court hou-fe by
ae Charlotte court house to Halifax court house
once a week.
, Leave PrinceEdwar-'courthoufeeveryThurf
1_ day at 6A M, and arrive at Halifax court house
r n on Friilav at 10 AM. Returning—Leave Hal
ifax cotirt house onFpfdaybv 2 P M, and ar
ic rive at Prince Edward court house on Saturday
a- by 6P M.
;h VIR GIN IA- mdNOH TH-CARGLIN 4.
it 34. Frcm Halifax court-houfeby Halifax oldtown,
k. Carters, Martinville, Patrick court-house, Upper Sau
j re, Germantnwn eud Betbania to Safein once in f« o
M w«cks.
j Leave Ha'iySx court-house e»ery other Friday at
, e 2, PM, and arrive at S»'.«m the rem Monday b> 6,
lt PM. Retoro^rig—LeaveSa'rm errry other TueTday
at 6, A M t and arrive at Halifaxcouit-iouft »n Fri
day by 40, A M.
' >5. Fiom Huris'sbv Hickea'sford to Halifaxtwice
l * a week.
Le»ve Harris's every Wednefdayoia Saturday by
5, A M. and arrive at Halifax by 6", P M. Return-
Halifax e»try Thursday and Suoday(by6,
4 AM, andarrive at Hariii'sbv 7, P. M.
>• riHGINIA.
From Smitfcfield b; Southampton eciß-hottfe
>. to Kicktt's ford once a wick.
-
i*~ -** -*»%[ {^#swjSM^^sßHKaS^Mtt^l
rffi i 1W ■«iMfifci >
' w 4
N f o ( e <|. For every hmr's dcliy ('unavoidable acciatr's
"l" r «",<>*"
I, afl, the Controller jL.I JorJtlt cm Mar, ani rf lit ac- I
to cMtimtuniil the <Up*rt«n ef any depending MM, J
Mi-reh tkc Mails iepinri for fuck deftaUng Matl, left GI
d trip, au add: tibnri'forfeiture "Jfive dollars jkall tor
incurred' ,v , r *
Note A- Nervfraperia* ivellas Let'ers are to be Jent qu
tic Mailt i "and if any ptrfon njling firopofcls dtftrn thl
„ c2Tr y other tlun tbtfi conveyed in the mail, gr<
fir Bit rim m'lnvent, be maA fete in bis (rtfafali for
tokat furs be -.trill carry it -mitb that emolument ani fur ma
■ucbit jam tvitbc'tt t'oat c-noiument. ( Kc
A'ot(s. Sbrmld any perfm tssniinr prDpofals defsre an I
alteration tsf tbe tim.es of arrival and departure about fie- Mi
cifLeJ, be mutt 4nte in bis prnpifals the alterations dAtrsd, ;
ani the difference tbey -.t'lll make in the terms of bis con- ed
t,*ft. , „ e,t
Mite 6. Perftni scaling proposals are deftred to Jtate sm
tieir prices in gross by lie year, and\ not h tbe mile, at
Tmf ■«>&■» entdriS vA&Hcti*e Ibeir pay OJCrtvly,, in fcr;
tbt.mdi' "f January, April, fuiy a-id Oiloltr, in
drafts on the poji offices on the route and in banknotes. wil
Kate 7 Tbe cwtrn&s *r« to be in operation on tbt fir/I I
d„y of April next, and continue for four years, until —.
' the 318 day of March inch five; in the ytar 1802. J
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Po/l-Mafier General.
Osnshai P«st Office, >
Philadelphia, December 18, r 797; j J>
tuthßtsti4thF an(
House and Lots, in Bondentown. me
r pO BE SOLD, a handsome two (lory House. " ei
X with the Lor on which it i« ereded, situated •>«
about the middle of the beautiful and Uealthy =Tl<
■ Village of Bofdentown. The h.ufe i< f»rty two Do
• feet front, and in neat order. The lot contains int
vneacxe, and is one hundred feet oa the* main Or
ilreet, and extends with tbp f«me breadth to back cul
> ftr«:t. Also, a large Lot, containing nearly four _
a«r«, fgpatatod from tbe former hy back ilreet. .
" One third only oMbe morxy will be r«- Jf
quirod upon executing a deed, and for the re- egJ
1 inainder, fnch credit will be given as the purchase m<
' l-fcr may chufS. This property will be fold free ®- wt
' ail uKumbrances,and an indifputabU titl« givenf ff£
For farthar partkolnrs enquire either of Dr.
[ William Barnes, relidiug in Bordcntowr., near.
. the premises, who will fti«w »h« fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
t Conveyancer, no. 144* Market-street.
1 Pecorober a. .
I Princeton —New-ferfey. «
E Ta be Sold,
>' r neat and convenient House in which
" i the late Mrs. Ann WilfaA-fpean, now Mrs. <
' Ann Walker, lived ; together with all the appdr- £
i tenames, Th«<io«fe is two Dories high, offrame f e ,
, work, and painted. Irere are ara four rooms t0
. I and an entry on the lower floor, and five ro*ms
II on the fiecend floor. "I he cellarsar-e dry, and the
garret fpaeions-—The bach yard is paved wi'h an
ft ones. In it are a woll of excellent water, an jj.
oven, a fitioke house, and house for athas—aad j
I, behind it a carriage honfej* hay loft, grarary, and
•rnvsnient stables, with four stalls for horses, and
four for neat cattle, The lot is 60 feet wide upon
r * the flreet. and 1.<4 feet deep, somewhat more than M
I one half of which is ryade i*t© a kitchen garden
k i of »n excellent f.j>. ; s
c j For terms, which will he mad* very renfoDaUU,
apply to the reverend ar
Samuel S. Smith.
Jatuary 19 »aw4W R
r" Mujkal Injirument Manufactory,
167, Arcb-ftreet.
, TO TBI LOTCRS OF HAHMOWY. L
HARPER,
ORMS his friends I '} 1 invented, ~
't~ antrSiuclTadmirei fide boa«*i Piano Fortes, with p.
Pedals,patent swell, fonopahant and French harp Q1
'• ftnp, which for lenfibility of touch,'brilliancy of
n tone,fimpljcity and durability of construction, the 0
0 fap-riority of whichjie flatters himfalf, a fingletri- e)
al will convince the unprejudiced judge—As they 0
r " arc manufafturad under his jmmtdiate infpcAion, v
te of the very be?: feafonod material-s, he can fell on s
reasonable terms for Cash. Inftrumsnte repairod, a
rt tuned, Ac. * t(
H. B. Second hand Piano Fortes taken in ex
[. change for new.
novmier 18. Siwimo. C
d - ;
=- FOR THE CORE OF
*• COUGHS, CQLDS, A9THMAS, CON.
)h SUMPTIONS, '
it- And all disorders of tbe Br:oft and Lungt,
h ' Church's Cough Drops
i'd Is a medicine unequalled by any other in the world,
a- ciattriCATE. 1
ile " I hereljy certify, that 1 have brt- J n cured of a
most severe Cough, Cold, aad Violent pain in my
to br»aft, by taking only a few doles of Dr. Cu^Rcu's
Cough Drops. CHARLES BEVANS,"
ve Sail Maker, Spruce Ilreet wharf, Philadelphia. I
From a London Paper.
To Dr. CHURCH.
SIR, ,
, r _ Having been recently restored from the brink of
v 0 the grave, by your invalrfabte medicine, 1 think it
my duty to make this public acknowledgment of 1
ir- the feme, for the benefit of others afflicted with a I
ef- ft.nilar complaiflt. 1 had been afflicted with a most '
11- dreadful asthma for about twenty-three years. 1 .
never for years g.t any reft, my cough was so J
troublefoir ein the night; and ufcd to discharge in c
- cr almofl incredible quantity »f glutirious matter 1 1
"d from my lungs ; and my breath was so exceeding '
' lc * fliort that 1 could not walk acrois my room. Fro- A
w " videntially hearing of your Cough Drops, 1 too, '
n s them ; and, through taking them alone, lam now
bletTed be God ! restored to perfect health. My 1
cafe is wall known to the members of the Ebene- ,
, nl zer Chapel, in Lincolu's-lmi-Fidd, of which lam
0D also a, member ; and any of them will gladly la
tiasy any inquiry concerning the truth of Vvhat 1
)D fay. I am, Sir, your grateful servant,
NATHANIEL fL.ANGVVOR.THY, ]
ar- N». 8, Smith's-court, Gr.at Wiodmiil-flrnet,
ixg Hay-mar k?t. '
ar- Witness,
N. Lan6worthv, jsn.No. 40,
Pultney ftrcet, GoUen-fquar«.
;e, CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS
Ar. prepared and (old (only) by the inventor and
'' sole rropiietor, Dr. Jameß Church, at his Medi
e" cine Store, No. r South Third-llreet, ne« the Mar.
• ket, Philadelphia; ani by appointment, at tWw-
York, by Mtffrs. Staples and Co. 169 Pearl-street, ,
K ' and Miss Wedman, 111 Wiliiam-ftreet.
jr Dr. Church may be consulted every day, at his
J p office, ijS South Front-street, Philaia'phia.
' M> January y. 3»W3w
f- DATING SCHOOL.
md "\XfH.LIAM MTJOUGALL prefente his
VV most refpe.'lful his surra- ]
at er employers and the citiaens in general, and re--
at turns his molt grateful thanks, for the very
bountiful encouragement he has expetrenced for
ive tnefe twenty-five years pall, takes this opportu
nity of informing them, that his school is now
:k " open, at his
Elegant Ball Room,
:at in South Fourth-Street, between Chefnut and
Walr.ut-ftreeti. To begin at 10 in the morning
mt s for yotmg ladies, and aia the evening for yosng
•nee gentlemen.
m- Her 8. sawtf.
Hylon and Young%"lyfon Tea.
ing A few diell? of excellent quality, For Sale, cor
rne ner of Second and Pin® Ilreets. •
December *6. eotf
Boston Class Man u f,x.
X HE cit; "~ of the,, , T a «»r
1 informed, that the J"' 4 ? - Sut " !
GUfd it now comm«. ced lsle re °f W
ton. il lne G'lft Houu
It U needless to f iv •
quality of the Boston Gl'-f ° f th * ®*
throughout the United Sa a " t" so Wc " )
greatly fuperi.t to any ever [J" m f7 ''T I
It will be cut to any si ze J.!' M , from 2
may heconflantly lud b v . ®*° n ly used
Kwt«. at the U! C " '«
Orders from the difttun ,
GO«E, Conrt-Aceet Boft
£? Two or thrtj good G i, . ' ®°|W
ed at the above works • r, c ], * ra, cr ,' ar«
Commendations fo# rood bthi " " ' >ro< ' u
at the works. Men witho-t fa„;i- L ' l
ferred However unicauainted **£
gf mating Cro*-ri #&}„, Q , t( . a
with 'he fame ecWuragement. f K- ' 1
Boston, lan. t6. "
*J—w»
To Cablet
Cavanagh & Hearn,
1 p/rr jD j!/tv,'' I'" Ae N^-Market,
K u V n L S . t0 th,:r friend. „
IV public, for their liberal cncoorag
and hope, by their iuremitting attemi
merit . continuance of their f av £. Th,
■erflup between them. and Joseph B. B„,
I y mutual < -' Qnf * r 't- Car
and Hearn have ,uft receivfcd a nyamirv
Domingo and Honduras Mihcgony, whj c
intend to fell on very reafonab'le termis f c
Order! from tfie country most punftuill.
cured. Vineert of ill kind* cut as usual
. J an -lii_ law 4
A LL P«l'ons mdetted to'the c'ffSTTf
■L i Gill, late of the DiftriA of Southwi
sealed, are requested to make immediat.
ment ta either of the Subfcnbers; and
who have any demands again# laid efla
requested to bring in their accounts duiv
ed to. '
JOHN MURPHY,
PEtEK SCRAVENDYKE, V
THOMAS FAKRELL, J
Philad. Lan, if). i-, q ß. *»>•«.
Jufl received a Ifrejh &upj
English Grammar,
The fee end edition, with improvemen
ADAPTED to the different classes let
with an appendix, containing roles s
fervations for aflifting the more advanced f
to wiite with perspicuity and accuracy
By LINDLEY MURRAY.
" This is a publication of much merit, and fully
1 answers the profefHons in the Title, Theappcn
' dix contains iome of the best rules for writing e- - J
. legantly, and with propriety,' that we recoiled ta
' have seen."
l Monthly Review, July 1796.
" This Grammar », on many accounts entitled
to commendatory notice, it* materials have been
carefully and judiciously felefled ; its araangement
is diftinit and well adapttd to the p*rpofe of in
* flrudlion and its expreffios is fimplt, perspicuous
and accurate, &Ct''
See the cheiraSer at large in the Analytical
Review, July 179^-
» English Exercises,
Adapted to the Grammar lately publilhed by
Li Murray, consisting of
■* - ■ - r %,!.».«! ■ ■ ■»» ijiiifc
of the rules of fynrai, defers iwp*jne
. tuation, and violations of the rules refpefl.v
J
f "We have been much pleased with the ptmfa
e of theft Enercifes. They occupy with diftirpuift-
l * ed excellence a most important place in the fcicnce
f of the English language } and a? fuck, we can
l> warmly recommend thera to the. Teachers of
"i Sehools, as well is to all those who are desirous of
l» attaining correiinefs and precision in their native
toßgne.'
Monthly Reviewi. Jnly 1797.
The above Books jie for sale at JostrH & Jamss
CitDiCSHANKS book [lore, No. 87, Market flrect.
~ January 11. juwjw.
T. This Day Publiflied,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, ior»er of
Second and Cherntrt flrects,
Price 3-Btbi'of a t)tllar,
Observations on certain Decumetits
d* Contained i« No. V and Vf of
" The History of the United States for
® the year 1796,"
. ID which the tBARGi of speculation against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
a Late Secret art of the Treasury, i«.P[7IXY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN, BY HIMSELF'
This publication patents a concifef!
0 f sf the base means pradifed by the Jlcobii
j t United States to asperse the
Q f are confideredas hostile tethi
a ganizing schemes. It also contains t «
refpondenee between Mr. Hamilton anc
j Monroe, Muhlcnhurgh and VahabJe, oh
C 0 jeift of the documents alorefaid, and a feri
ters from Jam«« Reynolds and his wife to
* r i miiton, proving beyond the poflibility of
_ that the connection between him and B
was the result of a daring eonfpiraey on
0 of the latter and his associates to ejtort n
r will be made in favor of wholcfale purchi
e cash. Orders to be addressed to Mr Yo
m Auffu/t is.
»- FOR SALE,
1 By BENJAMIN CLAF
No. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Frcn
Et ' A large quantity of Clock
Watches. Also, a general assortment c
Eiles and Materials, cowfifting of Ciod
ments, eight day and thirty hour brass
and i«rge work ; Bells, clock and watc.
, Springs, Hands, Glafles, Pumice Stone,
?. Rottec Stone, Cat Out; bench, Oand an 4 t« l &
* Vices j Turns, Pliers, Chains, Seals, Keys, &c. &c»
!v' *** Apprentices Wanted.
et novemser 3. —-—^
~ The History of Pennsylvania,
Bv ROBERT PROM).
Tg now in the pr'cf's, amlwillbi pul)lilnf
" A with all convenient expedition, by '/■,(• CHA
riai; PotrLßoN, jurt. No. 80, Chefnut-ll rcet »
ii« Philfdelphia, where luhrd-'.priorts wiH ' sue
to be received, aid ft the Pliibdelphia Librarv,
re ■' according to the printed propofate, until the
*3' w»rk is ready for t'ne ful)fei*»w».
<"• July *B. "*!l
- This day is Published,
At the,£)fficc of the Aurora, No. 11 5, Market Sircet,
1 Price or*c. dollar and a half,]
viewoftbeconduftot rhe kXECUTIVEI.it*
nd FORI ICN AFFAIRS ofthe United Start*, conni
ng ed with the Million 10 the French Republic during
n £ the ye^,^
- L v CI " il -"rrioNs" 1 a.^coß-.
a ' RESPONDENCE and other auihcatic ' ocumeiK*.
ir- A very liberal allowance taibofe who hny '®« »
, 41 *fc.
December S3l