of *»■> Philadelphia
Numbes 1797. J
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Ihe following GOODS, just arrived in the (hip
!Pigou, capt. Clay, from Camoo,
Eohca,
HyfonSlun, C TEA
Young Hyson, j
Sugar in boxes and bags]
A®d a quantity of Cassia
ALSO, TO BE SOLD,
faid ship PIGOU,
A well known* fad failing Ship,
BgpMivc oak and cedar frame, and cop
pered. She mcafures 76 feet keel,
a 8 feet 6 inches beam, 12 feet hold, and 6 feet
•|fetwe«n decks.
Mordecai Lewis,
JeJe fef Robert Wain,
William Sanfom.
w june ii. §2w
FOR SAL
THE SHIP
RICH MO ND,
JU3T arrived from the East-
Indies and lying at Latimer's
Wharf. 7
.Live Oak and Cedar and in every refpedl as
excellent a frame, as perhaps was ever put to
gether, copper bolted and fhearhed. She is 80
feet keel 27* feet beam, la feet hold, 6 feet be
tween decks and wili carry 4,400 barreis of
Flour.——For terms, apply to
Mordecai Lewis.
may 30 Jzw
L A N DING,
At Walnut Street Wharf, from on board the
brig Amiable Matilda, William Brown,
Matter, from Bourdeaux,
Claret in hogsheads and in cases of
SUPERIOR QUALITY,
Branny in Pipes, •
FOR SAJLi;
7"hornas iif John Ketland.
Said Brig for sale,
two pair four pound CAN-
N'ON, and one pair lalb. CAR
may 29 §
FOR LIVERPOOL,
|3§L l iF Tr t r,
' BAAC Vredenbercek, Maftcr,
good new veflfel, fails well—
Lying at Wilcock»'W-harf, wili fail about thelenthof
next month, a confiderabie part of her Cargo being
engage^*—For freight or R ffagcapply to
JOHN SKYRIN,
No. 96, North Front Street.
N. B. The Liberty is intended to return oneof
ihe firff fall veflclsto this port.
may 29 dlf
JUST ARRIVED,
In the brigGayofo, capt . Bingham, from St. Martins
A quantity of SALT,
oi an exccelJent quality
A few groce Porter Bottles, new
And twenty caflcs Vinegar
Also, FOR SALE,
Enquire of
Jehu Hollingjworth & Co.
No. 22, Little Water street, South,
april 20. §
For Sale, or to Let,
AVD IMMEDIATE POSSESSION GIVEN,
THE wfiole or on« half of a PLANTATION
on the river Delaware, between Burlington
and Bordenton (two miles fron\ the latter), con
taining about 4CO acres ; 60 of wliich are bottom
meadow, and 100 wood land ; thers are 30 acres
of red clover to cut this year (exclusive of mea
dow) but will exceed 50 the next ; and any quan
tity of impure m?y be had for the upland from the
meacow without injury.
An orchard of grafted fruit yielding betv/een 60
and 70 hogsheads of excellent cider ; a dwelling
fropfs with a barn, ftablc, granary and other nfe«
CffTary buil ings go with ode part in cafe of a di
vision ; on the other are no improvements, but has
one of the elegant situations for a house to be
seen on the river. The land is of good quality,
suitable for grazing or agriculture, and convenient
to market by land or water. For terms apply to
■the owner «n the premises.
Thomas St-John.
June 12 4t
Millenery Room,
136, Market flreet.
Miss C H RTT ST AL,
INFORMS her friends, that she has received by
the late arrivals from Europe, her usual lup
•ply of the very latest fafhions in MILLJENERY,
Jcc. with a great variety of Straw, Leghorn, and
Chip HATS and BONNETS, of the newcftlhapes,
'which wiil be opened this day.,
june 11. 20t
ADVERTISEMENT.
DESERTED from a detachment under the
command of captain Edward Miller, ila
tioued at Spring Gardens.
June 3</, 1798 —John M'Kiffock, |borti in
Ireland, county of Antrim ; 5 feet 9 inches in
height, dark hair, eyes and complexion, pock
marked, aged a 8 years, speaks broad, inlifted
I>y enlign Root, at New fiiunfwick, had onhis
full regimentals, itole a blanket when he went
away, he is a drunkard and very afl'uming.
June hih —James Crawford, born ill Chester,
State of MafTachufetts, brown hair, grey eyes,
fair complexion, five feet 11 inches in height,
o.ged 24 years, by trade a blacksmith, had on
Jhis full regimentals and left his pcfl when on
{entry. ilfo,
Eliakiin Stow, a prisoner, born in Symlbury,
State of C< nne&icut, aged 36 years, black hair
dark eyes and complexion, a repeated delerter,
very afl'uming, writes a tolerable hand and ii ve
ry talkative. Had on regimental ihirt and over
alls when he deserted the guard.
Whoever will apprehend the above delerters
and return them to Spring Gardens in Philadel- 1
pii a, or tojny officer belonging to the United
State? or confine them in any goal and give no- 1
tice so that they may he obtained (hall have ten
dollar* reward for either of them, or thirty for
4i:e three and all reafrnable charges paid. :
EDWARD MILLER, captain 1
zU regiment of Infantry. 1
%* The different printers i i the union art '
•reijuelled to inftrt the above.
June 11 5 '
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, jUb'E 14, 1798.
CONGRESS.
)
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Wednesday, May 23.
The bill for regulating the compensation of
Marshals, Attorneys, Jurors and Witnelfes;
and the bill for relief of William Simmons,
Accountantof the War Department, were read
1 the third time and palled.
> The bill refpefiing Alien Enemies wasread
" the third time, when
> Mr. R. Wii.i.iams moved a reccunmit
- ment of the bill. He said his objections did
not lie so much against the provisions resett
ing Aliens, as to the powers proposed to be
given to the Preliiient ofiffuing proclamati
ons, which are to be binding on the Judges
and other Officers, with refpeft to our own
citizens. He should wish to designate every
offence and its adequate punilhment, as far
as it could be done. In orderto effe£t this, he
made {lis m*tion.
Mr. Sewa li, said, so much difcufiion took
1 place on this fubjeit yesterday, that he did
not expect any more to day. The gentleman
i from N. Carolina seemed not to object to the
• powers given to the President by the firft and
1 second lections of the bill, but h? did not wish
• him to have any Officers to execute his pow
r ers. If the President could carry the law into
effect with his own hand, he might do it j'but
he objefted to his having any aid from his
Officers or the people at large. He did not
believe this kind of reasoning could have any
effttft in this house. If the Prelident is au
: thorifed to issue orders, he mutt be authori
sed to require the aid of properperfons to exe
cute them.
Mr. Gallatin called the Yeas and Nays
upon this question ; which being agreed to be
taken,
Mr. G. hoped this bill Would be recommit, j
ted. He had no doubt that the committee, by ;
paying due attention to thefubjeit, infteadof I
this general and vague bill, might report such 1
rules and regulation? as would be proper to i
be adoptedonthisoccafion. Herecolleftedfee-j
ing a bill from the Senate 011 the fubjeit, in 1
which something of this kind was done ; and I
■ though he did by no means approve of that
bill, yet it fliewed that the thing was not jm
podible. The objection made again(t a re
committal of this bill, was that it was neces
sary to do something to provide means for se
curing and removing Alien Enemies, which
did not apply as an argument against the re
commitment of the bill. It was a good reason
why a bill should bo passed, but no reason
why it fhonld pass in its present form. The
present bill, Mr. G. said, was grounded uoon
the principle that the President of the United
States (hall have the power to do by Procla
mation, what ought only to be done by law.
In the firft place, the Proclamation of the
President is to determine the period when
foreigners not naturalized, Avail be liable to
be apprehended, retrained, secured and re
moved as alien enemies. Mr. G. underfteod
what was meiht by apprehending alien ene
mies, and securing them, but he did not un
*<?erftand the word " retraining,it was vague,
he said, in its hature, and he did not know
that it was a legal phrase. The committee
could themselves exptain it. By the bill from
the Senate, it was intended to confine them
within the place where they reside—perhaps
this was their idea. The bill goes further,
they are not only liable to be apprehended,
restrained, secured and removed, but " to be
fu'bjeft, with their goods and effects, to ajuft
retaliation of any unusual severities, reffraints
and confil'cations, which shall be fuffered by
the citizens of the United States, resident
within the territory of the hostile nation or go
vernment, and inflicted by their authority.
Mr. G. wifhedto have explained what was
meant by " unusual feverifes." They must 1
mean something more than confifcations, than
apprehending, retraining or removing, be
cause they are fpecifically provided for. He
wifiied, therefore, to know what these unusu
al severities were, which upon our own ideas
of Government, we could retaliate i If any
other severities besides those which are here
enumerated, wereto be inflicted upon ourciti
zens in France, he tho't it would be difgraceful
to that country,&hecould not believe that ei
therproprietyorjultics, would warrant us com
mitting a difgraceful aCt against the citizens
of another Nation, bicaufe that Nation had
committed a difgraceful aCt upon our citizens
in their country,
Mr. Se wall rose to explain, but the Spea
ker said, the rule which declares no member
shall fpeakmore than once to a question would
not permit him.
Mr. G. did not know whether these words
" unusual severities," were not intended to
be held in terrorehiover the conduCt of France.
If so, lie did not think it a very creditable
proceeding. But he believed that part of the
bill perfectly useless, for two reasons. First,
it is extremely doubtful w hethcr the Presi
dent of the United Statescould confhtutional
ly exercise those "unusual severities," which
this bill fays he may exercise ; and with re
speCt to confiscation it was explained by a
subsequent part ot the bill to be only afequef
tration till the next session of Congress, and he
therefore conceived this partof the bill to be
of no life, except to (tain our code of law, in a
mannsr expressly contrary to the spirit of our
Constitution, which declares no " crtielor
unusual punishments," shall be inflicted.
But supposing the words only held out in
terrorem, he wiflied to know how they would
apply, whether it was to make a part of our
permanent law, or whether it is suited for the
present time only. If it were not to make a
part of our permanent system, and he thought
ns gentleman would fay it ought, thenit must
be 011 account of our present situation. As to
our present situation, in relation to anything
which may befal our citizens in France, he
would fay the words are useless, and this f»r
a plain reason ; for, out of the natives of
France in this country, ninety nine out of an
hundred, are of that description of persons
Whom the French call Emigrants, and it is
therefore perfectly immaterial to the Fiench
Nation how they are treated ; fothat the bill
could operate only on a dozen or two of per
sons of a different description who may be in
this country.
In the next place, with refpeit to confisca
tion, which by the next clause are so limited ,
as to become sequestrations, it would be wrong
to give this power to the President. Anarti- r ,
cle is inserted in the British treaty expressly
to declare, that sequestrations are impolitic
and imjnft in every cafe, and providing against
them. He admitted that it might be ireceffary
to resort to them on some occufions, becaule r
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Cbejnut Street.
lie believed there might be cases where fctjiief
tration would be necelfary by way of 'indem
nification ; but what he iiilifled upon was,
. that it ought to be done by law, and not by
the President. Ob a former occasion, when '
the question of Sequestration was before Con- j
f _grefs, the power was not proposed to be left I
; at large witli the Prtfidenf, but was to be re
i ■ gulated by law.
J There was another cirenmflance which
fhevved how easy a thing it would be.to pass a
i law themselves, inrtead of leaving every re
filiation relative to this fubjett with the Pre- 1
. fident. About the middle of the second fee- 1
1 tion, it is said, " where no treaty exifls, a rea
. fonable time (hall be allowed, which shall be I
; ascertained and declared by the Prfefident, or \
. by the Coagrefs of the United States." This (
s was a kind of double legislation which was I
! new to hiip. He wished to know what diffi- 1
f culty there would have been in definjng the 1
r time here referred to, in this bill > It appear
: ed to him the right and the proper tiin'fe to do t
it. From the moment fhat the resolution came j
c before the house, he was ready to acknov/- t
i ledge that the power of regulating this bufi- 1
, ness was in the power of Government, as it f
; was a power pofTerted by every Nation, which t
1 it had a right to exercise for its own security ;
1 but it ought to be exercised according to law. e
. In some countries, indeed, this power is vefl- e
> ed in the Executive. In France, he believed, c
t it was wholly so, and in England in a great e
s degree ; but in this country he trailed that f
t this house would be of opinion that Congress r
r is the proper body to regulate so important a c
. maafure. c
But theevil, Mr. G. said, did not stop here, c
it extended to all the citizens of the United 1
j States. The object of the lafl feflion provides t
5 that juffices, judges, marfluls, fhenffsand the '
■ people at large shall perform a duty which is {
• undefined. But the gentleman from MafKi- f
, j chufetts lays this is right, because the power v
7 j given to the Exeeutive by this bill, is also fl
" undefined. Thisis the foundation of all the 0
1 | objection made to this bill; it is to the total ! v
, | want of legislation in it, which leaves, not on- I
. j ly alien enemies, but citizens of the United \ t
1 ' States, to the will of the President. I t
[ I But he would go farther, and fay it is pofli- ! a
ble to define the duties of our own citizens, ! I
though the two firft fettions ef the bill should i 0
be left at large as they are. By the present j d
bill, th£ duties of justices, &c. are to be regu- ! a
lated by the Proclamation of the President. I v
He could conceive "that the house might take ! 11
into consideration the nature of the powers t
vested in the President, and inauire what will ! c
be the duties to be performed by the several : d
Officers of Government to carry into effect n
those powers. Those powers are to apprehend, j p
refirain, secure and remove Alien Enemies, o
and to sequester their property. As to the v.
removal of Aliens, he could not fee what jus- j si
tices a adjudges had to do vith it: but it they d
had any thing to do with it, Congre/s ought ii
to fay what. They might fay what should be , d
the duties of judges or justices, or of £xecu- j tl
tive Officers 111 tie several cases which may ])
be likely .to occur, infltad of leaving the thing tl
wholly at large. a.
The last part of the 3d feftion, he said, was ' o
as objettionable as any other. It defines the rr
crime ia two words " harbouring and conceal - ei
ing ? " and the penalty if found guilty of this di
vague anc uncertain charge is imprisonment, tc
not exceeding seven years, and a fine not ex- w
ceeding one thousand dollars. So that if aper- v
son be found guilty of harbouring and con- u
cealing an Alien enemy, however trifling the rr
offence may be, his piinifhrnent will be left tl
wholly to the discretion of the Court. The c:
only power of the Jury will be to decide on the w
fact and if a citizen has harboured for one n
night, however undefignedly an alien enemy p
he must be found guilty, leaving it altoge
ther to the court to judge of the criminality n
los the att, and to affix the degree of punifli- tl
ment. He thought this part of the law ought li
to be better defined. It ought to distinguish w
between cases of misdemeanor, and those d
which might arise from ignorance, and in n
which 110 offence atall might exist. He hop- si
ed therefore the bill would be recommitted. n
The question on recommitting the bill was tl
put and carried 46 to 44. The Yeas and Nays n
were as follow : t ]
YEAS. n
Messrs. Baldw'in, Messrs. Heifier,
Bard, Holmes, j- (
Benton, Jones, k
Blount, _ Locke, li
Brent, Lyon, a
Bryan, Machir, d
Bullock, Macon, u
Burgess, M'Clenachan,
T.Claiborne, M'Dowell, w
W. C.Claiborne Milledge, tl
Clopton, New, „
l>avis, J. Parker, c;
Dawfon, Reed, p
Dent, W. Smith, p
Elmendorf, Sprigg, b
lowler, Stanford, o,
Gallatin, Sumter, d:
Gillefpie, A. Trigg, P
G re gg, J-Trigg, C(
Orove, V. Cortlandt,
Hanna, Varnum, c ,
Harrifon, Venable, cr
Havens, R. Wiiliatns m
4-6- la
NATS. tll
Meflrs. Allen, Meflrs. Kindman, ( v
aer » Hofmer, V(
Bartlett, Imlay,
Bayard, Kittera, cc
Brooks, Lyman, di
C'hamplin, Matthews, w ,
Chapman, Morgan, f u
Cochran, Morris, dc
Coit, Otis, ps
t-raik, Schureman, a ,
Dana, Sevvall, cl!
Dennis, Shepard, it
Edmond, Sinnickfon, n c
Evans, . Sitgreaves, ca
A. Foster, N. Smith, t o
D. Foster, Thatcher, ca
J. Freeman, Thomas, w l
Glen, Thomson, f r(
Goodrich, Tillinghaft, p0
Grifwold, Van Alen, p e
Harper, Wadfworth, Tl
Hartley, J. Williams, nu
4*4 * de
Mr. Hindman an address from th;
Qiieen Ann's County, Maryland, approbato- po
ry of the conduct of the Executive in its con- ed.
duct towards France.
Mr. Matthews presented an address to coi
the fame effect from Kent County, \v
Mr. Otis reported two biljl?, one for the vvii
relief of persons imprisoned for debts due to be
the United States ; the other supplementary
to an act for the relief of persons imprisoned
for debt, which were twice read, and commit
ted for Friday.
The order of the day was called tor on the
resolutions of yesterday laid upon the table by
Mr. Sitg Rea v es, proposing to inftruit 'the
Commanders of our public and private armed,
veflels j which being read,
JVfr. Sitgreaves moved should be com
mitted to the Committee appointed for the
protedtion of Commerce and the defence of
the Country, and that they be inftru&ed to
report by bill or otherwtfe.
Mr. Macon hoped they would not be re
ferred to that committee ; but as the fubjedt
was very important, they firftgo to a commit
tee of the whole houfeon the State ot the
Union, in order to be difcufled, before they
were referred to a Select Committee to report
by bill. i
Mr. Sitg reaves believed the course
which he proposed was .conformable to the
pradtice on similar occasions. He agreed that
the subjeCt was important, and that it requi
red deliberate consideration, and full discus
sion ; but in the mean time he willied them
to be referred in the way he hud mentioned.
Mr. M'Dowell was in favour o-f a refer
ence to a committee of the whole. No subject
ever came before this -Congress, or any for
one, offo alarming a nature as this. He wiHi
ed, therefore, before these resolutions were
j fandtioned by a reference to a Select Com
mittee Jo report by bill, that they should un
dergo a difcuflion. He thought a contrary
course would create an alarm which he con
ceived to be unfteceflary ; for he did not be
lieve the situation of this country authorised
the taking up or passing of these resolutions.
The President, he faid,hadthe power to give
such directions to the Commanders of our ves
sels as our situation makes proper, and he
was not, at present, in favourof changing that
situation. He hoped, therefore, the resoluti
ons would be referred to the committee of the
whole on the State of the Union.
Mr. Davis enquired whether it would not
! be in order to portpone the consideration of
| these resolutions to a day certain ? On being
| answered by the Speaker in the affirmative,
! Mr. D. moved that the further cr afideration
I of this question be postponed till the 2d Tuef
| day in June.. He said, he did not thinlc. this
a proper time to take up this fubjedt. If he
was called upon to vore on these resolutions
now, he should be obliged to vote againlt
them. He knew only qf two things which
could warrant such a step being taken, viz. a
declaration of war, or the return of our com
miflianers, & their averring peace could not be
preserved with the French republic. Until
oneofthofe events, took place, it would be
with reluctance that he should vote foramea
fure like the prefeut. Some gentlemen, in
deed, declare we are now in war with France;
if they are serious in such a declaration, why
do they not brihg forward a proposition to
that eff"edV ? If there be a majority in the
house ready (o declare war, and will do it,
then he should no longer be at a loss how to
aft; He could then no longercherifli a hope
of prefeCving peace, which, however feeble it
might now be, he was unwilling to part with
entirely. When once our (late was expressly
declared to be a (late of war, he (hould be ready
to go iiU o any measure of defence or offence,
which the ingenuity of gentlemen could de
vise ; but whilst the fate of our negociation is
unknown, whilst our commiflioners yet re
main at Paris, (and if not proceeding with
their negociation, their flay there is unac
countable) he was unwilling to do any tTiing
which should either fru(irate any treaty which
may be in train, or hazard the fafety of the
persons of our commissioners.
Mr. D. said, lie would not have made this
motion if lie thought it would have delayed
the preparing of the veflels for sea. He be
lieved not mure than three of the vessels
would be ready before that time ; and if the
dire&ions to be given to the commanders are
ready as the vellels are prepared to
fail,-they will be loon enough. Hehopedthe
motion would, therefore, be agreed to. I.i
tbt mean time probably fame information
might be received, which would enable gen
tlemen to determine upon the question with
more propriety than at present,
Mr. Harper did not agree in either of the
reasons given by the gentleman from Kentuc
ky, in favour of his motion. He did not be
lieve the (late of affairs betwixt this country
and France was uncerFain ; and ifit were, he
did no* think it would be any reasonable
ground for acting as he proposes.
With refpeit to the situation of our affairs
with France being uncertain, lie believed no
thing more was necessary to convince gentle
men to the contrary, than that they (hould
cad their eyes upon what is now taking
place every day. It will be seen that the de
predations committed upon our commerce
become daily more enormous. We know that
our commissioners have no hope ofaccbmmo
dation with France ; we know they have
passed a decree by which nine-tenths of our
commerce is proscribed. It had frequently
been said that that decree would only affeit
our trade with Great Br;tain ; but if the de
cree be examined it will be found to affect al
moll every cargo with which our vessels are
laden ; besides the smallest article of dress of ;
tjie captain, or any of the crew being Britilh, '
would be fufficient for a condemnation of 1
vessel and cargo. There were also a num- ]
ber of articles which, though they might not i
come from Britifli poffellions, being no way i
different from such as do come from thence, |
would form a fufficient ground of capture ;
such were cotton, coffee, lugar and rum. In
deed, the French seem determined to make 1
prize of every vessel they meet with ; for if 1
a role d'equipage be the criterion which they <
chufe to adopt to determine, thy will a(k for c
it, and destroy it, and then take the vessel for c
not having one ; and when they find no other
cause forleizure, they forgf"falfe (hip papers c
to make the vessel and cargo liable to confif- '
cation. And when we lee all our vellels,
whether from the East and Weft Indies, or f
from Europe, taken and carried into French a
ports, (hall we (fill fay we are in a ftatc of c
peace ? Or that our situation is uncertain ! r
This decree was passed on the 10th of Ja
nuary, and though our accounts from Bour- 1
leaux are tip to the 19th of March, we know t
that it is yet in exiilence, and though the re- t
port ofourcommiliioners having beenreceiv- c
'd, may be true, (though he did not believe ?
t) yet whilst that decree is in existence, lie •
•ouhl not fav our situation is problematical. '
With a nation which .takesall our vessels, si
without discrimination, we cannot be said t L > u
>e a: peace. t |
y Bat what is our state with refpecl to France t
d Some days agcj we had a report that our coiu
miffioriers had had an audience of the Directo
ry ; but subsequent accounts tell us that this
c is not true, that they have no profpict of set
)' tling otrr disputes, and that Hie demand of;«
e loan of u millions is now grown into one of
d, 2j millions. Yet gentlemen ticink the fituai
tion of this country problematical.
- our commitfioners remain in France, was,».'» ■
e deed, to him problematical, and he could osv
>f ly account for it by supposing they are kept
0 there contrary to their will ; for, so long ago
as the 31ft of January, they fay they have no
- hope of accommodating our differences, and
t it they did not, in a few days, receive an an
- fwer to their memorial, they fliould apply for
e passports, and come home. The French go
f vernment had, however, only to delay giving
t them pafl'ports, and they would)>e obliged to
remain ; xndhe thought it highly probable
' that they would detain our comuiiliioners as
' jiollages, in order to extort money from 11s.
t This, he owned, was mere conjeiture, but he
- thought it very rational conjecture. Still we
fay our lituatitjn is pr bematical; (fill we fay
1 we will remain defencelefs, we will fuffer
French privateers to cut up our trade, ani
within 50 miles of Charleston, land on our
t coal}, and carry off our property. This, he
- conferred, tVas very unaccountable conduit:
- and lie believed France would accoinplifli her
; objeit, it w« remained inactive, catching at
every idle rumour which conveys any hope of
accommodation. She will continue to de-
I (troy our trade and ravage our coalfs, except
some measure of this kind is gone into, which
(hall er.able us to drive from our fliores all
I the picaroons and armeft vessels which infefl
it. 1 his could not be done, without inttruc
: tions like the present were given to our ves
sels ; for, it the Prelident were to fend our
; armed vclfels out with such inflruClions only
t as he has now the power to give, vessels might
lie without our jurifdiclibn (beyond which
; our vessels would not have a right to go) and
take our merchant-men within fight of our
t armed vessels, and they would not have it in
f their power to render them any aUiftance, ex
; ceptthe attack.were made in light, and with
, in the jurisdiction of the United States. In
, our present situation, Mr. H. thought we
ought to life the arms we have. One of our
i armed vessels, he laid, was dropped down the
Delaware, and he was certain the people out
; of doors, whatever might be the opinion of
: gentlemen on that floor, was desirous we
1 should drive off or bring in the swarms of pri
-1 vateers and piccaroons which are upon our
coast; those privateers and piccaroons which
: not content with capturing ourvellels, do not
1 scruple to fire upon our officers 111 the txe
: cution of their duty. If this was an equivo
cal situation, or if this was equivocal conduit
in France, then was he at a loss to fay what,
short of an army being landed in the country,
would induce us to resist. It was not the
purpose of France, Mr. H. supposed, to go
farther than this, whilst she can keep our
commiflioners in Paris, paralyze our efforts at
home, and continue to rob and plunder us,
she will be fatisfied, and will never attempt
to invade our territory. She will continue to
take our velTels wherever (he can meet with
them, and (according to Vidtor Hughes's de-,
finition) let none pais, which have any thing
on board worth taking. And (fill we fay our
state is problematical.
Mr- H. said he could not help deploring
this unaccountable delusion which had taken
jioffeflion of certain gentlemen in that house,
but under which he could not believe a majo
rity of it could he drawn. He did Irope that
ail remaining doubts on this head had been
done away ; but he perceived he was mifiak
en, he trussed however, that those who tire
sensible of the necellity there exifls for taking
active measures against France, will, unite on
this qccafion, and that the number who fhalt
be of a contrary opinion will be f'mall indeed.
Mr. M'Dowell observed, that the gen
t eman trom S. Oaiohna had gone into 3
lengthy argument on the qurSion for poll.
ponement; but he did not think his state
ments were corrcft. He differed widely
from him in opinion. He ftatea that there
can be no djubt that Frai ce m ans to be at
war with this country. Mr M'D asked
what in'ormation we h id received iron our
Commissioners which could lead to this idea
since the dispatches dateu the 19thof March?
He knew of nothing. He thought every
thing since had rather been favourable than
otherwifs. True it was, Mr. M'D. said,
that the French Nation lias injured us ex
tremely, by taking our vessels, and insulting
our rights. But the queltion is, whether
we ought, for the fake of protefling a part
of our trade to Great Britain, and ia order
10 obtain British to go to war?
The gentleman from S. Carolina fays, that
our vessels arc ftized without difcriminktion-
He did'not know frbm what f urcehe got
his information, for howerei flagrant the
conduft of the' French towards us may be,
this is certainly not correft.
Mr. M D. laid, he (hould be glad to know
where the gentleman from "y. Carolina got
hi» information, that the French had landed
on the southern coast, and carried off some
property from thence ? It that were true,
it would beaferious fact. ("Mr. Haperfaid',
the fa£l was in all the p pers], Mr. M'D.
said, he often saw things in the newspapers
to which he gave but little credit, and this ,
was one of those things. If such an event
Imd taken place, he was confident that the
Officers of Government in t' at part of the
country would before now have communi
catcd the fa£t to Government. Mr. M'D.
did not believe the exaggerated fiatements of
the gentleman from S. Carolina j and whilst
he had anv hopes of accommodating our dif
ferences with France, he (hould with to avoid
a declaration of war, .or any measures whose
certain tendency would be war. Gentlemen
fay we have nothing to defend our coatts,
the enemy may come and lavage them. Some
time ago a number of vcilUs were a(k?d for
t'«e purpose of protefling our trade on the
coast. It was objeStd to their being used
?s convoys on the high seas, left they (hould
involve US in war. They were, however,
granted, without any reftri£tion as to thtir
ule. But these do noj gratify gentlemen.
They now tall ujion she houfc t» go into
[Volume XIII.a measure which mull ineviubly produce
war, and which will destroy every remaining
h pe of accommodation.
Mr. M'D. wished to call to the view of
the house the llate of things which they are
about to bring about in this country. Let
gen lemcn refleft upon the prosperity which
we have enjoyfd (or rriany years back, from
a llate of peace and tranquility. But if the
measures succeed which are now taking to
induce this house and the people of the Uni
ted States to go to war with France, this
country must again become a scene of blood
and devastation ; numbers of our valuable
citizens must be deprived of existence, and
mimb»rlefs wWows and children be deprived
of their husbands and fathers, and others of
their best frie»d9. Such a llate of things
nfav arrive, as (hall make it neceflary to n.eet
the distress and horrors of war, but they
Kwiught not lightly to be encountered. Those
who hail been witnefc to the tniferies occafi
oned by our lad war, could not but bt anxi
ous to ai oid any tntafures which must aijain
introduce simitar fcenes'of mifcry to our view.
Gentlemen who are young and ambitious,
pu(h on their fcheaies without duly calcuja
ting their consequences. \ien whe wish at
any rate to involve this country in war,, in
order to aflimilate our government to that of
Britain, will go all lengths to carry their
point. He could not fay that was real- 1
ly their view, in pu(hing the country, firft !
by an. step and then another into war ; but i
he -vifhtd to avoid'unreceflary war. And ;
nothi 'g could induce htm more to oppose a j
war with France, than the strong convifti
-011 with which its mind was imprefted. that
the certain consequence will be an alliance
with Great Britain—a government which
he looked upon as the worst upon earth
£ I he taidj no oblervations relative
to an A'liance with Great Britai 1 or a De- !
claration of War. could pcffibiy be in order
on the prcfent queftion.j Mr. M'D. said, he
meant to (heetf the propriety of postponing
theconfideration of the resolutions before the
honfe, in doing which he found it neciflary
to reply to some remarks which had fallen
from the gentleman from S. Carolina.
Mr. W. C. Claiborne believed that
Prudcme. Policy and Wisdom required the
adoption of the preftn motion. The ques
tion which the discussion of these ref"lu ions
will introduce, being or the very firft impor
tance, to receive due conlideration.
It in no less than whether, under exiftingcir
cumftatices, it will be proper to authorize
offettfive measures against the French Re
public ; and he would alk gentlemen whe
ther they are prepared to meet this questi
on ? Whether they are prepar- dto fay, we
will throw from oar country all the happi
ness of Peace, and plunge it inevitably into
the reiferies of War? If gentlemen were
prepared to give the affirmative to this quef.
tion, he must own, he w;.s hot. He felt
difpefed to pause a little before he voted for
introducing so important a change in the af
fairs of our country, as the de ifion upon
those resolutions must necrlTariiy introduce.
On account of the spoliations committed
upon our commerce by the privateers of
France, he felt all the r t fe.itment which the
get tleman from S. Carolina could possibly
feel, "but he (hould not fuffer it to carrry
him so far as that of his friend from S. Ca
rolina ca ried him. That refentrnent he
strove yet to ftifle, and, for his country's
good, he could wish to ftifle it until ah hopes
of peace are dtftroyed.— Ihe gentleman from
S Carolina fays ail hopes of peace are now
gone. Did he { Mr. '.) think so, he might
ajrree with him in opinion as to the measures
whic he wifhcs 10 lakebut he thought
differently. That gentleman fay ; the dif
patche on tlte table fuppoit his opinion ; I
(said Mr. C.) can have no other refourcefor
ir.y opinion. What, said Mr. C. is the te
nor of the last difpatc'nes from our commilli
oners ? Those gentlemen have Hated to the
Diretlory in a very able and proper manner,
a Memorial containing the grounds of dis
pute between this country and France, and
were waiting an answer, which, if they did
not receive in a few dajs, they meant to ap
ply for paflports so come away. The gen
tleman from S. Carolina supposes, because
our cominiffiotters ire yet in i'atis, that they
are prevented by the governmest from com
i' g away ; he, on the contrary, supposed
that their remaining there was a favourable
circumstance, and (h-. wed that they had some
hopes of yet accomplifliing the objeft of their
million.
Mr. C. alkrd what possible good could be
derived to the country by referring these re
solutions immediately ? Would the doing
of this give proteflion to our Commissioners ?
Or would i preftrve our veffcls from cap
ture ? It could have no such tffeiSl. But
the house are told that one of our (hips of
war is dropped down the Delaware, and that,
in the course of a few weeks, others will be 1
ready, Let us then, said Mr. C. wait those 1
few weeks, before we aft upon these refolu '
tions, and not hurry on to a fituati<n of things '
which will rcqui e forty times the velfels we 1
Save got, and which will effeeluaily fruftrate 1
any treaty which our commissioners may pof- r
fibly be making with the French Govern- c
mer.t. We must, then, expeft to meet all
the injuries which enraged Fiance can cqm- 1
mit upon us. t
Mr. C. trusted gentlemen would refleft a °
little before they rcfolve upon the present
measure. He hoped the motion ol his friend
from Kentucky would prevail, and if the in
formation which (hould next be received
from our commissioners, fliould be such as
t > cjft all hopes of pea e from our view,
there would be then unanimity in that house
tor prosecuting the molt fpiritcd measures
whiqli. could be proposed. No divilion
would then be fcen. Every member would
resolve to support the dignity of the country ;
as he sup clcd it was the intention of all to
die upon the foil 011 which thev now live, 1
and that for the of that foil,
each he hoped wqulil willingly (htd all the '
blood which enci cles his heart. j j
( TLit dtbatt to be (onthiueJ.) j
Laws of the United States.
t-ztutfiorXty,.
j
j Fifth Cotigrefs of the United States:
f Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia,
9 in the State of Pennsylvania, on Mon
t day, the thirteenth of November,
y one thousand seven hundred
e and ninety seven.
AN ACT
n RefpeSing loan-office and ftial settlement cer
tificates, indents of intcrejl, and the unfunded
, sr-rcgifiered debt credited in the looks of the
7 reafury.
t Sec iIX lt enaSed by the Senate and
1 JZ) House of Representatives of the
f United States cf America, in Congress affembledy
r | That so much df the aft intituled " An
- ( Aft making further provision for the fiip
l port of public credit, and for the redemp*
t i tion of the pub) c debt,*' palled the third
d j day of March, one thousand seven hundred :
a . aud ninety-five, as bars from settlement or i
- allowance, certificates, commonly called
t loan-office and final settlement certificates, !
e and indents of interest, be, and the fame is
li hereby fufpendei sos the term of one year
i from and after the time of the fpafling this
e aft ; a notification of which temporary fuf
- j pension of the aft of limitation shall be pub
r | lirtied by the Secretary of the Treasury for
c the information of the holders of the said
r certificates, in one or morr of the public
e papers in each of the United States.
/ Sec. 2. And be it further tna3ecifj That
i on the liquidation and settlement of fuchof
the said certificates, and indents «f interest,
as may be prefentcd to the Treasury, pur
s fuant to this aft, the creditors shall be al-
L> lowed to receive certificates of funded three
• per cent (lock of the United States, equal
3 to the said indents, and the arrearages of
' interest due on their said certificates, prior to
• the fir ft day of January, one thousand seven
hundred and ninety-one.
Sec. 3. And be> it further enacted, That
■ the principal sums of the said loan-office and
final settlement certificates, with the interest
thereon, (ince the-firft day of January, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one,
(hall and may be discharged, after liquida
' tion at the Treasury, by the payment of
interest and reimburfemeot of principal,
equal to the sums which would have been
• payable thereon, if the said certificates had
been fubferibed, puif«ant to the afls making
provision for the debts of the United States,
' contrasted during the late war, and by the
payment of other sums, equal to the market
I value of the remaining funded stock, which
F would have been created by fubfe:iptions,
as afoiefaid ; which market value ftwjl be
determined by the Comptroller of the Trea
sury.
Sec. 4. And be it further enaSed, That
the sum of twen y thousand dollars, shall be,
and hereby is appropriated for the purposes
aforefaid, to be paid out of any monies in
th t 1 reafury not otherwise appropriated.
Sec. 5. And le it further enacted, That
from and after the passing of this aft, it
fnall not be lawful for the officers of the
Treasury to iflue or cause to be iflued, any
certificates of registered or unfunded debt ;
and that to fatisfy such claims for services,
or supplies furnirtied or done prior to the
eftablifliment of the prefeut constitution of
the United States, as (hall \>e allowed ac
coiding to law, and the course of settlement
at the Freafnry, there be appropriated a
sum not exceeding twenty thousand dollars,
to be paid out of any monies in the Trea
sury not otherwise appropriated.
Sec. 6. And be it further enaSed, That
the commissioners of the finking fund (hall
be, and they are hereby required to reim
burle, or cause to be reimbursed, the prin
cipal sums of the unfunded, or registered
debt of the UniteJ States, credited on the
books of the 1 reafury, and commiffianers
of loans ; and that they caufo a notification
to be published, informing the creditors,
generally, of the said reimbursement, and
that interest on the said debts will cease at
the expiration of fix months after the date
of the said notification ; and that a sum not
exceeding ninety thousand dollars be ap
propriated for the reimbursement of the
debts aforefaid, out of any monies in the
Treasury not otherwise appropriated.
Sc. 7. And be it further enoSed, That it 1
(hall be lawful for the creditors of the un
funded or registered debt aforefaid, to re
ceive c< rtificates of funded three per cent
stock, equal to the arrearages of interest due
to them, refpeftively, prior to the firft day
of January, one thousand seven hundred aud
ninety-one ; and on the requilition of each
or any of the said creditors, the proper of
ficers of the Treasury are hereby required ]
to iflue, or cause to be iflued, the said cer
tificates _of funded three per cent stock ac
cordingly.
JONATHAN DAYTON, "
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
, TH : JEFFERSON,
Vice President of the United States,
and President of the Senate. i.
Approved, June 12, 1798, a
JOHN ADAMS,
firefident of the United States. |j
AN ACT ''
Making appropriations for the Military EJlab
li/hment, fun the year onethoufand seven hun
. dred and ninety-eight ; amd for other pur
poses 5
Sec. 1 T-v *' h the Senate and
-[j? Hotife of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled, 2
That for the support of. the military eftab-
' j lilhment, for the year one thousand seven
I hundred a r d ninety-eight, the pay and sub
* fiflence of the officers and men ; bounties
and premiums ; the cloat'hinjr, hpfpital,
ordnance, quarter-mailer's and Indian de
partments ; the defenfive proteftion of the
frontiers ; the contingent expenses of the
war department, and the payment of mili
tary pensions ; the sum of one million four
hundred and eleven thousand seven hundred
; and ninety-eight dollars (including the sum
of two hundrtdthoufand dollars already ap-
I propiiated on account) be, and hereby is
j appropriated ; that is to fay :
For the pay of the army of the United
States, the sum of two hundred and sixty
four thousand eight hundred and twenty
four dollars.
For the fubfifttnee of the officers of the
army, he sum of forty thousand fix hun
dred and (ixty one dollars.
For the subsistence of the non-commif
fiooed officers and piivates, the sum of two
_ hundred and forty-feven thousand, onehun
j dred and seventy-eight dollars.
e _ For forage, the sum ot fifteen thousand,
eight hundred and sixteen dollars.
j For equipments, for "one company of
f cavalry, two thousand, one hundred'and
1 forty dollars.
, For horftsfor thecavalry, to replace those
, which may die, or become unfit for service,
. the sum of four thousand, "five hundred
] do lars.
j For cloaihing, the sum of eighty-three
r thousand and fifty dollars.
] For bounties and premiums, the sum of
t thirty-eight thousand dollars,
j For the hospital department, the sum of
r ten thousand dollars.
3 For the ordnance department the sum of
forty three thousand doliars.
For the quarter-master's department, the
(um of two hundred and twenty-four thou
sand dollars.
For the Indian department, the following
sums, that is to fay ;
t For the payment of annuities to the Six
F Nations, Chikafaws, Cherokees and Creeks,
, the of fourteen thousand dollars.
For the expences attending the tranfpor
. tation of Goods, for the above mentioned
, annuities the sum of nine thousand dollars.
I For promoting civilization, and pay of
f temporary agents, the sum of fifteen thou
( land dollar*.
, For rations to Indians at the different mi
litaiy polls, and vyithin their refpefliva na
. tions, the sum of twenty-thousand dollars.
[ For building a grift and saw mill for the
use of the Stockoridge Indians, agreeable
, to a treaty in one thousand seven hundred
and ninety four, three thousand dollars.
For contingent expenses for presents to
: Indians on their yi'fits to the feat of go
, vernment > and expenses attending their
jourmes, and during their (lay in Philadel
\ P hia ' the futll of ten thousand dollars.
. lor the defenfiive proteaion of the fron
-1 ,le " °f the United States, including the
ereaion and repair of forts and fortifications,
. the lum of sixty thousand dollars.
For loss of ltores, allowances to officers
01. being ordered to diftunt commands, and
, for special purpqfea, advertising 3 „d appre
. hendmg deserter,, printing, for purchaf.ng
ot maps, and other contingent expenses, the
sum of twenty thousand dollars.
For the annual allowance to the invalids
of the Untted States, for their pensions,
from the Jth of March, one thousand seven
hundred and ninety-eight, to the fourth
day of March, one thousand seven hundred
and ninety-nine, the sum of one hundred"
and two thousand, and sixty-seven-dollars,
and seven cents.
Fdl- the confirmation and repair of certain
vessels on tha lakes, in the service of go
vernment, and the pay and fublillence of
the officers and crews of the fame, sixteen
thousand seven hundred dollars.
For making good a deficiency in the ap
propriations for the fubfiftene'e of the non
commissioned officers and privates of the
army of the United States, for the year
one thousand seven hundred and ninety
feven, the fumof one hundred and fourteen
thousand, one hundred and fixty-fevgn dol
lars, and ninety-five cents,
For making good a deficiency in the ap
propriation for the expense of the quartep
malter's and Indian departments ; the de
fenfive proteflion of the frontiers ; bounties,
and all other contingent expenses of the
war depai tment, for the year one thousand
seven hundred and ninety-seven, the sum of
fifty-four thousand fix hundred and ninety
four dollars.
Sec. 2. And be it further enaded, That
''he appropriations herein before made, (hall
be paid and discharged out of the surplus
of the revenue and income beyond the ap
propriations thereon, to
the end of the present year.
JONATHAN! DA v TON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
TH : JEFFERSON,
Vice P reft dent of the United States.,
and Prejident of the Senate.
Approved, June 12. 1798.
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States.
Deposited among the Rolls in the office of
the Department of State.
Timothy Pickering,
Secretary of State.
I'ennfylvania Hospital,
6 mo. it, 1798.
THE CONTRIBUTORS are hereby notified to
meet at the said Hospital, on the 7th day, be
ing the 23d day of this month, at 4 o'clock in the
afternoon, to reconsider the expediency of con
ftruiling a Dome to the centre house of the new
buildings; also, to determine on an alteration to
be made in the .ytlvrule, so lar as the famcrefpedU
the admiflion of poor patients.
By Order of a Board of Managers. '
SAMUEL COATES, Clerk. I
Brown Stout.
50 calks BROWN STOUT, of 6 and 7 doz. each, '
Juil received per capt. Joyce, and for fafe by '
Benjamin IV. Morris-.
LIKEWISE,
aoo cafas CLARJLT, of the very firft qualify.
J u ? e 9* mw3ht 1
%fjt &ascttc.
PHILADELPHIA,
\ THURSDAY EVENING, Jam 14.
; ' CONGRESS.
Yefterdav, the House of I^eprefentatives of
1 the United States, after some debate, paired
■ the bill for the valuation ot houses and lands
s and the enumeration of Slaves within the
United States. The Yeas and Nays were taken
I as follow :
1 X E A S.
r Meflrs. Allen, Meflrs. Hindman,
. . Baer, Holmes,
Baldwin, Havens,
; Bard, Imlay,
Bartlett, Jones,
Bayard, Kittera,
Blount, Lyman,
Brent, Matthews,
» Brooks, Milledge,
Champlin, Morgan,
T. Claiborne, Morris,
Clopton, New,
Cochran, Otis,
Coit, J- Parker,
Craik, J- Parker,
Dana, Reed,
Dawfon, RutleJge,
: Dennis, Schureman,
Dent, Sewall,
Edmund, Shepard,
Evans, Sinnickfon,
A. Poller, Sitgreaves,
D.'roller, N. Smith,
J. Freeman, S. Smith,
Gallatin, • Sprigg,
Gillefpie, Stanford,
Glen, Thatcher,
Goodrich, Thomas,
Gregg, Thorn Ton,
Grifwold, Till inghaft,
Grove, J • Trigg,
Hanna, Van Alen,
Harper, Venable,
Harrifon, Wadfworth,
Hartley, J. Williams
7°.
NAYS.
Mellrs. Benton, MelTrs, Macon,
Bullock, M'Clenachan
Burgess, M'Dowell,
W. Claiborne W. Smith,
Davis, Sumter,
Fowler, A. Trigg,
Havens, VanCorilandt
Heiller, Varntim,
Locke, R. Williams.
Lyon, 19.
Tile bill to authorise the defence of Mer
chants Veflels againlt French depredations
was also passed without a division. The
amendments of the Senate to the bill supple
mentary to the ail ellablilhing an uniform rule
of Naturalization, were taken up and agreed
to. They went to exclude from the operation
oftheatt, Foreign Mi nilters and Consuls, and
their servants, and to Itrike out the provision
which made an Alien liable to be arrejled as a
fufptiled person besides paying a fine if he neg
lected to enregifter Uimfelf as an Alien in due
time. The words fufpefted person were also
(Iruck out in two or three other places. The
Prelident of t)ie United States informed the
r houfe, thath; had approyed and signed the
ait making appropriations for the Military
Ellablilhment for the year
suspending the Commercial lntercourfe be
twixt the United States and France; and the
act refpeiling Loan Office' Tickets, Final
S-ulementCertificatesandlndentsoflnlereft.
At « meeting of the Inhabitants of Luzerne ctun
ty in the State of Peunfylvania, held at the
dourt-houfe in tVilkeJbarre, the 21Jl inffant,
agreeable to public notice prei'ioufly given; it
was unanimously resolved, to present the fol
lowing address : t
To the PRESIDENT or the UNJTEDSTAIES,
SIR,
While we have the utmost confidence in the
wisdom, integrity and abilities of thofewhoare
conftitutionaliy entrusted with the management
of our national concerns, wc conceive it would I
be improper to ejprefs in opinion relative to the
me a flirts nectfiary to be taken at this important
crifia in our public affairs : but viewing with in
dignation the unprovoked, wanton and cruel at
tack made upon our national rights, by the arbi
trary 1 ulers of France, wc Ihould deem ocrfclves
unworthy the blefiings we enjoy under our free '
and happy government, Ihould we remain silent. '
The repeated inl'ulti offered our government,
and the continued depredations committed on
American property, by the French nation— the
mean and degrading terms they hold out, as the
only basis 011 which they will negotiate—and
above all, their base iufinuations that the people
of America are so abandoned that th»y will '
tamely fuljmit to, and even jullify such outrag
es on their property, and such indignities to their
government ; are fufficfent to excite the abhor
rence and awaken the energy of every true A
merican. ,
The voice of our fellow citizens addrefied to
you from various parts of the Hnited States, 011
this momentous occalion, affords us a pleating
conlolation ; while it evinces a degree of union i
and firmnefs that may prcferve our country from '
further degradation. 1
Permit us to express our lincere regret, that '
every overture confident with the digniiy of [
.our government, "has been tiied in vain for the t
amicable adjullment of our difference with France
and for the attainment of. peace. Whilewcre- c
fled), that the inhabitants of this place have not c
been exempted from the severest fnfferings which '
war inflicts, -\ve have reason to appretiate the r
b eflings of peace ; but «e can never consent to J
[jurchafe peace at theexpence of our national
honor and sovereignty. With these impreflious |
we do mod lolemnly pledge ourselves to the ex- (
tent of out abilities and at the risque of our lives e
to support such measures as have been or may be f
adopted by the executive of our government, 1
to preserve inviolate our independence and na- 8
tioatl dignity and to protedl our civil and reli- 1
gious rights.
Signed by order of the meeting.
Ebfnfze* Bowman, chairman. j
A true copy,
Attefl. Putnam CatliNj clerk. ,
Wilkeibarre, May aift, i)®B.
ANSWER '
r 0 the Inhabitant] of Luzerne county in the
State of Pcnufyl-vania.
Gentlemen,
I thank you for this address, presented to m»
by your reprcfentative in Congress, Mr. Sit
greav«s.
The arts and address, deception, fedmflion
whith have been employed for so manv years to v
divide us, are likely to end iu our mo'rc'perfect
union.
If your experience of the fsvereft fufierings, „
which war inflidls cannot intimidate you to pur- a
chafepeaceat the expenceofnat onal honor and C
sovereignty, there is net another place iu the v
* United Statei which ought not to blulb at tie
Idea.
. The solemn pledge of yourselves at the rifqu
- of your lives, and to the extent of your abilities
to support the measures of government, to pre
serve inviolate our national dignity, most
coi.fided in by all who know any thing of your
history.
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, June sth, 1798.
At a numerous meeting of the inhabitants of the
county of Otftgo in the State of Acw-Tort
ls convened by public notice at the Coup Houfi „f
e said county.
n William Cooper, esq. in the chair.
Refolded, That a Committee be appointed to
draught an address to the P reft dent of the United
States expressive of our sent ments in the present
critical situation of our country with refpett to
the republic of France, and to report the fame
immediately. Whereupon Elihu Phinney % Fran
cis Henry and Richard Edwards were appointed.
The following addrejs being reported and unan-.
imoufly agreed to ; Ordered\ that the fame be
fubfer/bed by the chairman and clerk and tranf
mitied to James Cochran, esq. to be by him de
livered to the President cf the United States.
Tc JOHN ADAMS,
PRESIDENT OF the UNITED S PATES.
Attached by every tie that can bind us to the
mofl ardent love of our country we cannot refrain
from exprefft ng the great solicitude we feel on the
fithjeft of the present eventful period of cur na
tional affairs. Conscious of the honefly and juf
t'ce of cur government towards every nation in
the world with which it hath had any delations,
we confidently flattered ourselves with the expec
tation that we should have preserved our neu
trality», asd the en oyment of peace throughout
the fanguiijary war which hath so long and d&tb
flill continue to spread havoc and defoliation thro 9
feve al parts of Europe. The rapacity and ag
gressions however of one of the belligerent nations
do now very seriously threaten to dlflurb that
tranquility, which the virtue and the wifetom of
our rulers have, endeavored mofl earnefllyto pre
serve. IVe rely with great confidence on the good
sense fortitude and integrity of our fellow citi
zons throughout the union, to repel every attack %
both foreign and domejlic to which we may be
exposed, and we do mofl solemnly pledge ourselves
to support with cheerftilnejs and with prompti
tude, such meafur/s for the preservation of the
1 independence and sovereignty of our country as
Congress and our rulers may in their wisdom deem
ex ed 'tent. The prudent but energetic regulations
which yoil have adopted andpurfued with regard
to the unfuccefsjul negotiation with the republic
t of France, have been, we conceive, jlriftly con
fident with the honor and dignity of a great na
tion, and demonflrate in the flrougefl terms your
unceaftng regard for our common interefl ; and
merit a coutinuation of our unfeigned and grate*
3 ful acknowledgments. We rejoice in the profpeSt
. of unanimity on the present important occafion —
One sentiment appears to prevade our land ; to
. devote our lives and fortunes to the maintenance
[ of our rights as a free people. Under these im
; preffions we wbvfe lots are cafl on the frontiers
of our country, beg leave to express our sentiments
on the occafion —our pursuit being agriculture,
i we have no words that we expefl will be more
grateful to the government we love, and will
not part with, but with our lives than those of our
ftneere assurance, that we will fuhmit with cheer
fulnefs to any equal iax the wisdom of our gov*
ernment may lay on us for the national support
and that we will march with alacrity to any
part of the union to repell an intruder •
William Cooper, chairman
Jacob Morris, cleik . v
To the Inhabitants of the county of Otfego in the
State of New-Tork. *-
GENTLEMEN,
I thank you for your addref), presented ~to me
by your representative in Congress, Mr. Co*brmo.
'lhe solicitude ycu feel in the present eventful
period oj our national affairs, is common to the
govt rnment and people, to all who are attached
to their country by an ardent love of it.
Tour reliance on the good sense, fortitude and
integrity of your fellow citizens, / tmjt will not
deceive you, all depends upon tbeje virtues. If
these fail us, we an -10/ l, our conflitutmn and
adoiinifl rat ion all depend upon them. Our gov
ernment without these aids has no power it home
, or abroad / IVe have no other principle of Union
or capacity of defence.
Tour unfeigned acknowledgments are very o*
bliging to me, and the clear assurances of support
to the fneafures of government, are very encou
raging f 9 us all. Tour lot on the frontiers, and
your pursuit i of agriculture, give a weight to your
fentim&ts ; you may be fuppofedt\be less heated
h PlffiWy less affeSed by prejudices % and less in
fluenced by partial or local interejlj than the in
habitants of great cities•
There can be no flronger proofs (jf patriotism,
than a cheerful Jubmiffion to any fax which the
TAiifdom of government may impose, or than a
promise to march alacrity, to an) part of
the union to repel an intruder.
JOHN ADAMS,
Philadelphia, June 6th, *9B.
THE ANSWER,
Of the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES, to
the \ OUNG MEN of Boston.
gentlemen,
IT is impoflible for you to enter your own Fan
ieul-Hall, or 10 throw your eyes on the variegated
mountains, and elegant islands around you, without
lecolle&ing the principles and a&ions of your
and feeling what is due to their example ;—One of
their)?*)? principles was to unite in themselVes th«
character of citizens and fold»ers, and especially to
preserve the latter always Ju.bordir.atc to the Jormerl
With much solicitude for your welfare, and that
of your posterity, I take the freedom to fay, that this
country never appeared to me to be in greater danger,
than at this momeut, from within or without—never
more urgently excited, to alliime the lunfttons oi
foldters..
The Hate of the world is such, the situation of all
the nations of Europe, with which we have
isfocrtical, that viciflrudes mud be expelled, from
whole deleterious influences* nothing but arms and
energy can protest us. To arms, then,, my young
friends—to arms, especially by fca, to be used as the
laws shall oire£t, let us resort; for fafety against dan
gers, which we now fee and feel, cannot be averted
by TRUTH, REASON or JUSTICE.
Nothing in the earlier pan of my public life, ani
mated me more, than ,the countenances of the chiU,
dren and youth of the town of Bofjon ; and nothing
at this hour, gives me so much pleafuie, as the ma'-
culine temper and Talents, difpiayed by the youth of
America, in every part of it.
I < ughf not to forget the worst* enemy we have s
Thai obloquy, which you have obferved,is the worst
enemy 10 virtue,and the best friend to vice : it drives
to deitroya'l diflin&ion between right and wrong, it
leads to division, fcdition, civil war, and military
defpotiim.— I need fay no more.
JOH NADAWfe.
Philadelphia, May 22.
Board and Lodging.
WANTED, in a private family, wfcere there
arc no small children, board and lodging
by the year, for .a gentleman, his wife, thre<;
children and servant. As the parties propose te
find their own furniture, and will be fatisfied with
plain fare, it is expesed the terms will
nhle. An airy fituatioh in the neighborhood of
Chefnut Market and Arch flrcets, to the west
ward of Fourth street, will be preferred.
Enquire of the Printer.Macpherfon's Blues.
battalion orders,
June 14th, 1978.
The Blvii are to aflemble, in full uniform
"to-morrow morning at five «'clock at the pi
rade Centre square.
ROBERT HEYSHAM, Adjutant, f.i.
cJ- Attention ! Artillery Blues.
THE Gentlemen who have enrolled
themselves in order to form the above Com
pany,' are desired to meet on Saturday even
ing, 16th June, at 7 o'clock, at George
Hill's No. 130, North Second-street, sign
of the Buck, to eleft Officers, determine
upon uniform, and form bye-laws. Appli
cants, previous to that time, will enjoy the
privilege of voting
June 14.
Editors of newspapers will please to give
the above a place.
VOLUNTEER GREENS.
THE Troop will pa-ade in uniform, cojß
p'etely equipped on Sc u\lkill Bank, weft end of;
Wati ut ftteei, onSa'uiday i6ih June instant, at four
o'clock in the afternoon.
JOHN MORRELL, Captain.
June 13.
Volunteer Rifle Company.
THE Citizensef-Philadelphia and the North
ern Liberties, who arc disposed to jnin
said «k>nr.pany, in support of the Liberty and
Laws "f their country, sre informed that arti
c';« of adeciafinn arc left at the houfc* of John
Hiir.e*, n0.131, H'mH 'ttreet, J hn Coyle, no
303, fiid flreet, and at the counting house of
O-iadiah Siockton, corner of 9th and High
firrets where able bodied, a£live citizens are
invited to enr I themselves.
The Printers in this city are rtquefled to
g'.v; tb: Above a ft tj publications.
June iz
" FOR LONDON, ~
The copper bottomed ship
s a l l r,
C 3 pt a in Lo' kyer.
. A Confiderabie part of her
""" cargo is already engaged ; —to
fail with all convenient speed For terms ap
ply to ROSS Cjf SIMSOK,
No. \n, South Front-Jlreet.
June t.i $
A House and Lot in Burlington
FOR SALE.
A L ARGE commodious two story brick House,
tnd laifce well improved Gardens; with a large
Clover Lot. a stable, Carriage House. and Spring
Houf<*, See. in the city of Burlington, New-Jersey.
This Dropefty allow d to be the mo ft healthy and
beau'-iful of any in Burlington, having a front of 360 feet
upon the river, and extending 208 feet back ; bound
ed on one fide by Broad-ftrcet, and on the back by a
wide alley.
The ho*ife is in form of a square, fronting feet
upon Broad flreet, and 58 upon the river—with a
pump of water at the back door, besides two fine
ipringarifing out «f the beautiful back between the
garden aod the river.
For particulars, apply at No. 5, South Fourth
ftreet, to
GEO. WALKER.
Who has also Far Sale,
Lots in Washington City.
i" ne '3- 3'
London Particular Madeira Wine.
A fev pipes of a superior quality, fit for imme
mediateufe ; and CLARET in cases.
FOR SALE BV
Michael Connor,
No. 102, comer of Second and Dock ftretts.
June 9. §
This Day is Publiflied,
AND rOSIAII BY J. FEN NO, 119.CH ESNUt-r a BET
AN ADDRESS
. To the People of Maryland,
ON the origin, progress and prefeat state of
French with a Iketch of the infamous
Attempts to degrade the Government of the United
States,artd some reflections on the late proceedings
in Congress ; written the last of April in the pre
sent year, by a Member of the House of Rcprefen
tatives. 5 june 11
Military Academy.
THE Public are most refpe&fully informed,
that a Military Academy i« opened in the
Northern Liberties in the house formerly belong
ing to John Matters, esq. between the German-
Town aod Frankfort .roads, North Second
ftreet continued
Br JOHN BARBER,
Late of the 6oth Britifti regiment of Foot and
afiiftant Engineer to the Army a&ing in the
WeiVTndie*. #
Where gentlemen will be taught the manual
Exercifeand made completely acquainted with
all the duties of fiicers, non-commifiioned of- 1
fleers and private foldier3 in camp, garrifonand
Quarters ; the forms of regimental and field re- \
turns, detachments, rosters &e. &c. also the
art of drawing plans, fe&ions and geometrical
elevations, the elements of tactics, gunnery and
fortification.—A fubfeription lift is left at the 1
bar of the City-Tavern, where the terms and '
the outlines of the yropofed regulations may be J
seen. Tie tit nation is extremely weli adapted <
to the undertaking and eight acres of ground are j
set apart tor the purpole. (
B. Gentlemen from the Country boXrded
in thehojfe if required,
mav to. diwiawim ]
FOR SALE. !
BV THE SUBSCRIBERS, 1
.The Cargo of the Ship Richmond, (
Captain Hathaway, from Bengal,
Gurrahs. wkite Guzzies <
Ditto, blue Guzzenahs <
Salums Emerties
Gorahs Mow Sannas
Mamoodies Penialcoes
Tickiries Baftas
Rontalls Coffas • *
Po'eas Tar.jebs i
Chintz Mulda Cloths ]
SaulGaziiei* Carwah Cioths (
Ah elegant ajptrtment of
Madras Handkerchiefs r
Benar<*s SUGAR c
COT» ON and GINGER £
Mordccai Lewis. _
may i?. iw mw
To be Sold, in Burlington,
Immediately oppofit* the wharf on the river De
laware,
A Large new two story brick Houfc, and Lot
sixty tret in front and one hundred deep— ~
The House consist* of two large parlours, one 17
hy it, the other 19 by ai, an entry in the mid- r
rfie, three large bed chambers and one small one,
well finifhed garrets, a large kitchen, pantry, store 1 a
romi, See. with good cellars, good water and gar- j
den, aU new, well finilhed and in perleii order. {
l::>n>ediatce poflcflu-n will be given. Enquire of J
Edtvard Bonfall & 10. or of Francis Durdin, Bur- |
lingtiMJ, who wiH inform the price aii-3 flbtw the j
preailts. may 24
By this day's Mail.
rm V a MW-YOMI, June •».
Yellcrday, n half past ~, , M-,,| difch,-™ G |
cannon Fro«n the bartcrv. announced the fc-cleftio::
of JOHN' J 'Y to the firrtoffi, e in ih ; i Halt. Km
'• withllai>din 4 ihc u'nrcafi.ig induftrv rj the fnrnd, ~|
Mr. L|vm e non, a majority of t 3 tj so- Mr Jav rvin
cciuia .crvft r, k!r M maVinrr, the fee alrfm o. thi.
• Hate. Ha. 1 , cq-nl cxcrtiont been made ufc of thfie
cd would ha.r been but a very few vote, lef; for .he on.
polite candidate. r
The -ajo.ity for Mr. Jay at the hft eleaion, wa.
only t s ßo.
R e _
gn The canvafa and efimateof balloti for reprefe.-.ta
ine «"« '■> congrefa will bf commenced thiadav
lli-
he . yeflerdav mo'nin» arrived in tow* fr« m Philade 1 -
phia the Hon lamei M'Henrv fee'ry of wa 'he
ohjeflof hiivift , we uiHe.ftand, •»"> take a
o* '•>"» -o t—ln rherourf. of yellerda .h? .entt>.
ve G vem r'.lflmH. Accom laoied bv feverat j. mlemen
ofthiicity, t« tr.lpeft th- wo-ks. The rtfult of thii
vttt; we hor-ewill be i alHi;ion io<x l . fortlfi,at;o~?,
wid such other arran»emen>» for kctu nj off an invad
ms toe, as wilt 0 ace this vulnerable Drum of the
m - j Umtrd Stat I, anr, -he Itate of Nt»-Yotk, in foine
of better poflure of deferce.
)ur
COMMUNICATION.
Veare tufmmed »hat the ure of this is
tobe immrdiarc.'jfurtunon dfo hp purpo eof cr>-
ooeratin? with our filler Oatt s and w'th congress, in
tak jr.® efficient mcafjres of defence and offenc« if rc
b qufie.
"in ' l!s the\- will in thi» cry, to be
I nearer the scene of aftiet. and to know better the no
" ceffary rae*fure* to be pursued [/ r gus.J
BOS''ON, June : 9 .
of LEGISLATURE OF MASS/1< fTVSETTS.
h- HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
ire Thtirfday next was assigned for coming to
the choice of a Senator of the UnitcdSta.es.
to [The Hon. Fisher Anies, Samuel Dexter;
Theophilus Parsons, and Edward H. Rob
_ bins, are on the nomination lift.J
Th' Secretary delivered the following
ip mrflage from the Governor :
1 I have received a letter from James
M'Henry, Esq. Secretary at War, in which
er he dates, that owing to the failure of a con
,tc tra&, the government of the United States
p. are unable to supply the cannon necessary
for the upper battery of the frigate Consti
tution, and requelling the loan of a number
_ of cannon now ufelefg on Castle Island,
tl which were designed for (hip's use, and are
improper for thai fortrefs. The Secretary
fe, engages to return them as soon as others
ge can be procured, and in the mean time to
order a number of 32 plunders round from
id Providence to Boston, for the defence of
-« the town and harbour. This letter I have
, a direfted the Secretary to lay before you,
and have no doubt the request will be com
:et plied with, if in your judgment it can be
1 done consistently with the fafety of the har-
bor of Boston.
ADDRESS TO THE PRESIDENT.
h- The Committee appointed to draft an
Address to the PrefiJent of the United
States ; made report. In the Senate it was
unanimotifly accepted. In the House, after
a short debate, the question of acceptance
was carried.—Yeas 107 —Nays 30.
S.
e- SALEM, June 8.
The French are leaving us, Consul MO2
ard advertises his countiymen deCrous of re
turning home, that h( will accommodate
tbem with vessels.
ThecfnraSer o/JOHN ADAMS may be
:T read in the following noble declaration of the
people of Pott*s town f Penn,) in his anfivcr
to an excellent address from them.
of «« YOUR confidence, that 1 will not
furrender the rights of the nation, Jhall not
gs e betrayed If the nation were capable of
e- such a surrender (which it is not) SOME
Q " OTZR HAND tnuft affix thoiTxnature to
__ the ignominous deed.''
The Prcfident* in his aßfwcr to the ad
j dress of Frederick town and county (Mary-
fend) exprefles a pleasure at its " having
been passed and certified under the auspices
rj. if one of the few, who remain, of his ancient
i- and much refpe&ed colleagues in the firCt
councils of the union.
d PORTLAND, June 4.
IC THE MEMORIAL.
a l Could the excellent Memorialof the Ame
h rican Envoys be a; generally read by the
f. citizens of France, as the French appeals
d were by thepeople of this country,it would
be a difficult matter to persuade deluded
Frenchmen to draw the sword against their
d allies. But this expeftation is vain—the ty
; rants who at present rule that endaved na
d tion, not only watch over the presses, but
e keep a jealous eye on the mails and public
d couriers. Indeed we have but little to hope
e for, but from the spirit and resources of our
j own country. Reconciliation seems to be
quite impoflible. The lawlefsinflruments of
rapine and plun-ier, not content with pillag
" ing ourveffelswithin our capes, have in some
instances, landed on our islands, and carried
off the farmer's (lock. M<iy the fire of refrnt
ment glow in every brsaft, and may each
citizen arm himfelf for the proteftio,n of his
country.
To the Editor of the Gazette.
HAVING ebferved aparagraph it your
Gazette of the 21 ft May, (laitngthat Gen
Rochefontiane had been difmifTed by a Court
Martial please to inform th^public that the
mode of his dismission was not by a C"urt
Martial but by a revokation of his com
mission, by the President of the United
States. I am authorised to aflert the above
by'letters, both from New York and Weft
Point.—lt is to be hoped that those Prin
ters who have circulated the paragraph allu
ded to, will publifli the preceding.
D. HALE, Lt. of Artiilerifts and
t Engineers June 2d.
r N O T I C E,
T 1 'HE Owners or ConGgnees of veflels per-
JL forming q-izrinttne are te take notice that
' J a arrives from the Hospital at the
' | Office at 7 o'clock and leaves it by 9 every
r! ninp ( Sunrlay« excepted ) luch ftipnlief a» are to
I tie forwarded to vein-Is are desired to te lent to
'! the Health Office before thchourof tiine.
June 8 i
Xije Cfecttc,
of PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, Juni 14.
in- l
ere At a meeM'ng of a number t>f the Cttfeens
>p- .of the City and Liberties of Philadelphia,
above the age prefobed by law for the pe<-
formance of militia duty, convened in con
sequence of prt vious advertisement, at Mr.
ta- Dunwoody's in Mark-t-ftreet, the lad even
ing, to take in o consideration the p'refrnt
critical fitna l ion of public affairs, and deii-
h ~ berate on the method by which they reay
t , Heft contrihute to the public defence, Col.
tu James Read was appointed Chairman, and
jj?j Jaret! Tngtrfoll, Esq. S?cretary.
The oojeil and design 0} the meeting was
id- explained by Mr. In_-erfoll, who concluded
h* by reading the following proposals, which '
Tlc lome of the gentlemen present hadprevioufly
prepared.
" To proteil our Country from ihfult,
ii outrage and dishonour, to preserve her from
a foreign yoke and to maintain our freedom
rc _ and independence, the Congrefsand Execu
tive of the United States re adopting the
be moll vigorou and energetic meafurc', the
governor of our state has iflut d his proclam
a ion for enr lling, organizing and equip
ping thf ff eat body of the militia. Our ,
Sons have already associated in arms : at so
■ awful a crisis. we ' the fubferibers, citizens I
to of the United States and nhabitants of the I '
S- City and Liberties vf Philadelphia, above
r ; the prescribed ' y law for the perform
-1). ; ance of m litia duty, holding ourfclves in- ' ■
! difpenfably obliged to contribute to the pub- 1
g lic fafcty to the utmofl of our ability, do i (
i agree,
es t 1 ft. That we will as early as pofiifele pro- '
h vide ourselves each with a good musket, bay- :
1. • cnet. cartridge br.x, and twenty-fofir char- 1
;3 ges of powder and ball, and keep the fame j
y in good order at our refpeftive houses, or |
such other place as may hereafter be agreed .
• r upon. 1
] I 2. That when any company have affoct- '
- e 1 ated together to a fufficient number, we will 1
y ! proceed to chufe one suitable person as cap
r, j tain, one lieutenant and one second lieute
-0 j nant by hallot or otherwise as (hall be agreed
j, ; upon, and such other officers as may be
} f found expedient.
, e 3. That when the company or companies
J; are compleated, the officers (hall apply to
j. the Executive for such commi (lions as it 5
, e may be deemed proper to grant them, and
r . make a tender of this affociatidh for the de- s
fence and preservation of the City and Lib
erties, to be formed into companies, regi- I
in ments or otßerwife, as may best answer the J
d pbrpofe of difcipline and m iitary
18 preparation,
;r 4. That such of 113 as are of health and j
:e constitution to undergo the fatigues of a
camp, wiH voluntarily offer ourfclves, for I
repelling, uncUr the directions' of the Ex- s
ecutive, any invasion of this state and for "
2 the fupprrt of the-civil autWen'ty.
E . J. That if the militia and volunteers of
the City and Liberties of Philadelphia, be ,
drafted or ordered to afhial ferrice at a dif- '
from home, we will make diligent en
>■? qniry in bur refpeflive wards and townships, (
into the state of their families, and admin '
T ifter to thefr comfort and relief in the best
manner in our power."
it After the proposals had been read a fe- '
it cond time, the Chairman inquired if any )
>f person had any objection to the proposals. 1
E Several persons exprefling their approbation f
0 and no onedifapproving, the chairman put ,
the question, whether the citizens present
1 approved the proposals, and it was there- !
r- upon voted unanimously in the affirmative. ' !
g It was next moved by Mr. Hollingfworth 1
s and seconded by Mr. Tilgfiman, that acom- ! c
t mittet be appointed in each ward of the City i 1
jt a d Liberties, for the purpose of handing I
this association round to the citizens, and
committees were nominated accordingly. 1
(£/" Printerr art requcjlcd to re-publifb the ,
above.
June 14. 3 t
s Yesterday, at 12 o'clock 64,000 Dollars
1 were fubferibed for building the (hips &f ■ 1
1 war to be loaned to government,
r The following gentlemen are appointed a j"
. committee to superintend the building cf the ;
, Ihips :
t Th. Fitzfimons
Jas. Crawford
: Jos. Sims
r Danl. Smith t
: Thos. M. Willing v
f Capt. W. Jones 1
Jas. Yard.
: The fnbfcription is Ail! open ; and up
-1 wards of 70 000 dollars fubferibed.
I
, FROM THE MINERVA. '
3 Prlrttd at Dcdham, Majfacbitfctti.
Congref* has been busy of late in providing for
the defence of our country Uy land and Tea. The !'
propriety of allowing merchant Vfflel* to a:m ;
aed of fitting out public armed Ihips is scarcely to t
e contcftcd by any one at this day. The neccffi- v
*v of felfd-fence is as plain as the noon day fun. f.
t The capacity of the United States to defend its
» trade pud navigation greater thin mod persons
t have believed. No nation, except Britain, has so
much trade—and a trade -will support a o
" Itrong navy. France has not more Tea coast, c©r r;
1 at this more sailors. (hips or commerce than
r we had in 1784 Her wealth, credit or naval re
t sources are net in greater proportion ; and, after V
. paying her vast armies, her nu-ans to equip and a
maintain and equip a pov-rful fleet are not so n
great aathofa of America, whose credit cllablifhtd,
and sources of taxation sre yet fcaicely c;
\ made to yield a quarter part of their pra&icable
refcuirce. It is evident that America may be, and C
fad events prtrv* that (ke resolve that (he will
he, and soon too, a great naval power. A few h
(hips would check piracies ou our and strait- w
en the rapacity of the Weft India Algermes. Ful- r j
c ly to realifc this difirable state of felf defence,
* themuft be some years of preparation, in trme of
of peace, when labor and materials will he cheaper
' than at present. It will be our folly if we remain
> twenty years longer Hnder guardianlhip to any
£ uropean nation. There is treachery iu all for
eign prote&ion, and w« (bail be branded as cow-
* w * r«ck fafery r, any rJV r way but
Wer ti»»n of our own llrengthand resources. 1* has
cort u« a food to cure u* of our foolifli and al
— nioft fatal fjndnefs for the French. We flial! not
lov<* nor b?ir*<Jfy fruft the T.nglifh court. i#et us
btiiM ships, forfify our ports, and provide trortps
and zra\< fufficiciu to keep on invaders a:id ftip
prefs infurrc^ionv
Cortgr.-fs hai accordingly a ,reeJ to raif.* ro.oco
men in caf- of wsr or invasion. cr imminent dan-
PS 1 r This refh-f&HS*) ihay be justly cen
furcd as iinpruffenr An invader would not wai*
3» tiil ouriroc.ps could he g>t rca<ly, and it is we.
i. known that preparation* dangeristhe wa/
n . to prevent the att-ck. European nat on* cal<ula
ted chiefly oo the Ihips, anrf rcfourccsof a country,
and France wonH be more discouraged by 5000
n " t>en raised, than hy 20,000 to be raised.
Jit The feir of invafion is ti'eatexi by some a<
i- a hag bear, by others as a thing to be erpe&ed.
ly few fnjates, and a fr-w thousand soldiers, chief
j ly negroes may poflieiy come from Guadaloup?
J to hoifl the flandard of .'iberty, and to ra'fe the
ia I Blacks in Carolina to assist he invader;. To fre
j vent this mo'eof attack, regular forces in confid
-3S ; .crzble numbers fcem to be called for by prudence ;
. otherwise very ex'enfive mlfchi'Jf might be done
j before the militia of a thinly fettled country could
be col!e<3ed to repel them The few d»,fperadocs
y of the French parry, which has been very trouble
some and dsrnorous in the southern dates, might
be also gathered under the banner of the French f
n invader. 1 hirty thouf jiJ Frenchmen are said to t
hefcattered among us. and there area- many so- t
reign malcontents in the ftatrs wbofe citizens art* >
1 imported yearly. (A wretched way of filling up
e a country !) Ic is evident therefore that our gov r
e ernment beins: forewarned (boul 1 be for earner 1 |
and rai(e men in season Fur «°very one r mem
hers that enlisting soldiers after they are want'd for
adujl service is very flow and expenfivc. Wit ef»
r our late continental army F
0 ! But the danger of a French parry in the New- '
lS j England states i? very litrle AJter all the pains 11
e j taken so turn the heads and corrupt the hearts oi
: 'heyankess, there is not one in a thonfand who C
would join the Fr.*nch. They would rally to the
" j fiandard of America, and f'unport Ad.vms our,! v
1- virtuous ard chief magistrate," to the last drop of
their blood Very few, since the late difpatchc*
Q were puHli(hed, remain unconvinced. The people
fee the sincere endeavors of our government to
preserve and they are forced to fee the per- 0
• si yard profligacy cf the French. While Venice, r
Switzerland and Holland, and mod of the old re- ,
.. publics of Europe are crumbling into dq(l before e
e France, because they were weak and had not the
spirit to rouse in time th'< little strength they had ;
let those who are appointed to be our political
1 watchmen, provide for our fafety by flailing forth
some part of the force that we a<sluqjly have, and
. let them be perfuaaed that we arc neither Swils
j r.er Dutchmen in the spirit to use it.
THE PEOPLE.
i gazettFmarine list. 1
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA
e
' ~ v
, ARRIVED,' days. r
Schr. Lark, Crandom New York 8 >
j Sloop Aaive, Baker do 6 i
FROM THR FORT. J i
Ship Nathaniel Bayley, Campbell Jamaica r
Thomas Chalkley, Clark Surrinam 1
. Brig Jane, Watts Caue N. Mole a
. Schr. Friendrtiip, Odlin do. [
r Thomas, Vanduym do. t
Eliza, Shaw Cape Francois
Phoebe, Howard Havanna t
1 Sloop Industry, Lyle Cape N. Mole V
i CLEARED,
r Brig Nancy, Burrows Surrinam
. Schr. Harriot, Lawfon George Town S. C. '
r Sloop Sally & Jane, Mathews Cuba
New-Tork, June 13.
r ARRIVED. a
. Brig Dianna, Nichols, Aux-Cayes "
I Schr. Neutrality, , St. Jago de Cuba *
William Eurr, C. N. Mole "
Mary, Allen, Digby p
' Sloop Swan, Knox, Bolton "
I , Min-rva, Cough, St. Thomas 0
Arrived the fclir. William, capt. Burr, 12
days from C. N. Mole ; failed in company h
with a number of American and British vef
l'els under convoy of the L'CafTas, of 18 "
guns, among which was the fchr. Nancy, r;
Norton, for New-York, capt. Burr, was °
t bound from Wilmington. N. C; to Mor.to "
Chrilli, with a cargo of provision , wis ta
) ken and sent into the Mole, after being be
j l'ng detai ed 25 days was cleared, vefTel and s '
I cargo, by paying the whole colt of court. el
1061 dollars, and the cargo damaged. fl
Capt. Burr fays that the day he failed the h
j' English Wf re embarking a large number of '
troc ps intended for some secret expedition.
( The (loop , Whittlefey, of Saybroo'i,
from this port arrived at the Mole the day : ,<
before he failed. IV
Prow.denec June 9. j
s The Brig Betsey, capt. Graves, of this
j- 'port is arrived at New- ork, from Surinam.
: Left there {hip General Greene, Brown,
i ; and brig Fanny, Alger, of this port In b
, I lat. 23, long. 59, fell in with a privateir £
schooner from Guadeloupe ; «-as treated po- c ,
litelv, and dismissed without injury. On "
Saturday morning lad, fell in with a priva.
teer fchr. of 8 guns, said to be from Mar
tinique, but the crew were all Frenchmen,
who, after plundering him of a few articles T
permitted him to proceed.
Saturday lad an armed febr. outward
bound from New-York, came down the
welltrn found, and chafed a veflel bound to
Newport, with intention to p..t a pilot in
board her. Supposing the fchr to be a
a French privateer, the patriotic inhabitants
of this town and Newport wereahout fend
, ing a (hip (properly authoriied) to speak
, 1 her, and Volunteers in abundance offeted
1 themselves for the occasion ; a timely cfifco
■ very of the mistake however prevented her
1 failing.
Portland June 1. ' '
Arrived (hip President. Capt, Boyington
of Wifcaflet, 52 d%ys from the coallofAf- *
rica. He was taken by the French, then re
taking by the Englilh, carried into Goree,
where he was obliged to pay salvage to the
a nount of one half of the vrflVl—Off Ber
muda spoke a French privateer.
Arrivedyefterdav,the(hip Admiral Dun
can, 7 days from Halifax. She brings ac
counts ofthreeFiench privateers lately cap
tured and sent in there One tof them had
lately captured seven American vessels. (he _
was taken off St. Georges bank. An Ame
rican brig from the Havannah was also car
ried in there.
30 tons of Lignum Vita?,
nicklinVgriffith.
jure 7 tuthst
Politivfly far Nlthis oaiv.
ias ? '
j| AT O JELLERS HOO.VL „
MR. CHALMERS,
"* Mofl rpfpeflfully brgj rive to infarm his friend*
and the public, that with the afliflarice of
Mr WjyuMsos, from the Ne v-
Y rk ThratrV he 'Vieahs'to^ivr
z READINGS AND RECITATIONS,
n- Serious and Comic. *
i- Particularly a PQETIC A ODRESS to thePit
riotic You'i:* Me*rof Philadelphia.
'/ Tir Firjt Evening to be
a PRIDAr, June IJt h.
T Mr. Wil'iamfon will Sing fevcral new SoNCJ.
■° And in the courfeof the Evening
The much ad.Tiircd popular Patriotic I'ongJ,
3 , Tb' Bojlan Patriotic Song,
" ADAMS AND LIBER 1 "
The New-Tort F d~ral Song,
WASHINGTON AK» tki CONSTITUTION' "
e And
[ " HAIL COLOMBIA."
Several pieces of M*jfie on the Grand Piano
ie ' Forte.—by the celebrated Mr. Lih
j ley, being his firft apuearmce in
public in this Country.
it N. B. Mr. Williaml'on bting obliged to per
h form at the New-Yoik Theatre on Mcnday
0 cverrtng. th? public may depend upon it, that
i- there Will be no poflpor.ement on any account
S whatever.
P icketr, one dollar.—To begin exactly at half
P l 'l 7 o'clock*— rickets to be had at CEliers'
* : i... • -
r A CARD.
v Chalmlks ana ii. l iamdn most ref
pcdfuilvacqua ni th public, that the PKESIDENT
. * ,s,rr ' s »o honor the emetainments of Ffida\ eveo
s uig wit" his pre! en. c.
H.enutnb - o' tickets will be limited—Tnofe U
-3 to***'-* Gen lemcf, wcifh to fupdv fnenYclves*
may 'nvetb-m bv applrin* -i r. Fr N<-. 39
j Soirh Fr i.v i»r- f» .<> <ffi-r ; Mr. Carr't
f " ." r
*AV i .
e /f ' h P "l°! J cir.y clam or demand a
) ! gainst t tie ft ate qf sifs oeton Humpbrtis late
°f t' Jls f, o r » veeeajed and nvbo have not
, rendered tbeir accountj, are reqiu fled to render
them immediately ; and 11 iboj'e lubo are i debt
-1 ed to tke late firm of Afsbeton and James Hum
* phrejSy are requested to pay tbeir rejpefiive ac*
j counts to
i James Humphreys, jun.
i ad mini ft rat or*
» j unc T 4 20TV1 m
TO THE PUBLIC. "~
GEORGE KIESSEEBACH,
Phyftaan, Surgeon, and Oculijt, lately from
Europe.
WHETHER weconfiarr ihe with refp?£l
to its exquifiie Arufiure, iu u'e in the animal
economy, or the p'eafure and advanteges of Vision,
we cannot but look upon it as one of tn? most ad
mirable and important. organs of the human frame.
J When we rtfled, like wife, on the many panful and
5 dangerous diseases it is liable t®, arising as well from
its necrffary use, *s from accidental causes; are we
j not juftifiedin affcrting, that whoever lhall contribute *
1 towards preserving it from injury, red.uing it from
s a diseased so a heilthy Ibtc, or remedying any of the
defefls of fight, or stilT roore, brings ic from total
blmduela to fight again, will render a fe-v : ce by no
means unacceptable, or important to manki id.
s To be able, however, to perform any of ihefe very
l fffrntial (ervices, it must be allowed, that an accurate
- knowledge of the ana: omv «'f this wonderful organ ;
a clear conception of thedo&rine of vision. and tho
j acquaintance with the histories of thediffercgc
dife fes, and the mol* apo'ived (uccefsfui me
j thods of cuie are iudifpeniibly n cefTaiv. A.I this is
to be hoped fom a man who has made the diseases ;
of the E\fjhu par:tcular study whi h he has done,
and ft»ll does, ai.d has also ltudied at some of the
most celebrated unive-fitirs tn i:il>ope; onder tho
greateA oco!iH>, and his praftifpd laid science ihcfe
twelve yean pall, wi h theg'eatelt success.
He, therefoje, takes rhe Jibe ty ot informing th«
public, tha- he int nds to tarry h«re a (h«>rt time»
and will undertake the ore ail difca'es of the Eye*
(if curable) on apjuration bcng made to Ijim ac
John Stall's, Sn pg, North ! hird-ft'eet.
Sho ild he nd >n mi nation of (hepa'ient, that
his eyes aje incu abe, ;>e will inform htm candidly*
as he never u idefrake a cure, without fouie probabil
ity of uccefs.
Should anv patients prrf-nt them f elve? with Cata
rafts on their Eves, who canno' becuied bit by the
operation (which he performs io a much and
mo»e improved manner ih-.n here-ofore
they shall be at hbettyr 1 bringanv r withtnem,
in whose prc f euce V w II his operations.
His excellent EYE TINCTURE for prefetving
| and ftreng'h- niny w ak E\es feld.im tails.—Such ben
efit to weak eyes have been received from i», that peo
p'e who were obliged to use fpeclacles for a coofider
ahle ri ne, by ufingrbts Tinftuce,'three or fyur weeki
r haveNaid their fpcfbaclts away, and read without
r t'nem. ,
june 14. *aawtf
I, ROBERT RODGERS, of the city of
' 1 Ncw-Yr»rk groc, has this dav, forwarded an en
! tolment of 4c IRISH VOLUNTEERS to rhe Pre
sident of the Urtited States, who are willing to de-'*
f.nd this country againfl the amb tious views of the
Frcrich Duedory.
ROBERT. RODGERS.
i-ine 8
1 o the Piefident United Stairs of~ menca.—Hum
b!y lhew-th, that your petitioner had a hrother nam
ed James Rodgers, who sough- and diea for the inde»
pendence of A merit a—THEREFORE your petition,
er prays your excellency will call on George Walh
ing, fcfq. iate PreGdent, U S. of America, Mr. Day
ton, of Elizabeth Town, or General of
Newaik, for hiibrother's char^fter.
ROBERT RODGERS.
jnne q.
The Cargo ot the Ship Natha< ie! BayUy, captain
Cambrll, from Jamaica, wi'l commence laudicij
TQ-MORROIV, at South-flrcet Wharf.
Sugars of Prime Quality iu Hhds.
High proof SRuq,.
FOR SALE BY
Peter Blight,
Who also offers for Sale,
A choice parcel of ifl and 4th proof Bran
dy in Pipts.
Port Wine in Pipes, Hiids. and Quarter casks
Madeira in Pipes
Old Arrack.
jnne §if»odti3jy
NOW LANDING,
From on board*the (hip Four Friends, and for sale.
at the St«re« of
JESSE to- ROBERT WALN,
A cargo of Havanna Molafles.
June 13 5
The Rev. Dr. Bi.air's
DISCOURSE,
Delivered on the late National Fast Daw
Is just Published, by
Jamas VVatteas, iff Co.
And may also be had of the principal bot.kfellert.
The firft volumeoftheWEEKLY Maoazims
With an appendix containing tlie Prefidtnt's
meUage and the difpatcfes « now puhhfhed,
and maybe had <J' the pubrijhers—the pr.n
cipsl bookfe"ers in Philadelphia—by George l .
Hill, Paltimore fnd by Alexander Sonrierviile
Nev-'-Yorlt-—A few copies of the Qifpatchet
may be hid !Vpsrate. '
may is coitfFresh Teas.
yitjl Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Salty by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Compting House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,
AND BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea, SoUchong, Hyson, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, altar ted; black and coloured Lute
fcrings and Saturn, "Nankeens, Cassia, large garden
and common Fins, fattin and lutestring Um!>relUs,
whale-bone flicks.
7'hey lave olfo For Sjtr,
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Hanikerchi.fi,
french Cambricks and Umbr.llas, Sugai ir boxes,
march 8. $
for sale:
A THREE Story Brick House, on the north
fide of Spruce-street near Second-dree;,
adjoining the wall ef Mr. Jones't garden and
formerly occupied by David Lenox, efq.—This
house is incompleat repair with back buildings,
consisting of a Piazza, Kitchen and ahandforee
Dining Room over the Kitchen.
As any Person inclined to purchase will view
the premises.a raore particular description iscon
iijerc: unneceflary.
The terms of payment will be one third.cafli,
ohe third in 6 months and the remainder in it
months with interest. For further information,
Enquire of JOHN CRdlGt
No. I> Doek-Jirect.
may 16
Military Colours.
At C. GULLAGER's
Portrait arid Ornamental Painting Rooms,
No. JO, South Fourth, next to Chefnut street,
oppotitc the Friends' Meeting.
T)AINTING on silks for Military and other or
-1 ramental purposes (in a manner peculiar to
himfelt) durable, not to be injured by the weather,
which for elegance of deSgs, truth and beauty of
colouring, oeatntfi and mallcrly execution, has
not been equalled by G«orge Rutter and Co.
FLAGS and DRUMS
Furnilhed with all podible dispatch, on the most
reasonable terms.
Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck
ets, Cornices, See. &c. executed in stile (not that
superb stile of modern elegance peculiar to G. R..)
but m a workman like manner, peculiar to an ar
tist master of hi? profeflion.
Mr. Gvllager, from a number of year's expe
rience in Europe and this country, flatters himfelf
that profeflional talents, pun&aality, and reason
able demands, will rAeet the entire approbation of
those gentlemen who wiilpleafc toc 11 at his Paint]
Rooms. §6w may 5.
NOTICE.
P. S. Gentlemen in town and
country, wifbing for a supply of Colours and
Drunas, painted in a malierly manner, will no
doubt feel themselves obliged for the kind cau'ion
Ky George Rutter and Co. not to trust felf
fldtteriug advertisements, but examine the work
executed by bosh parties -One view will fatif
fy them where the superiority lies,- —save thefpoil
ing of good (IHtt by Gorge Rutter'9 pencil—and
discover the requisites for the contracting talents
of Henry Frailey, at Germantown may to.
Tea Warehouse,
OPPOSfTE THE PC!T-OF?IC*.
THE Subscriber returns her fin cere thanks for
the "enerous encouragement fhchr.s experien
ced since her commencement in bufinefs,begsleave
to acquaint her Friends and the Public, that (he ha«
received a frefh supply ot all kinds of Tea from the
late arrivals at New-York, &c. and it will be her
conftapt eupcavour to merit their future support.
She is in daily exrtfitation of receiving a large sup
ply of good Coffee.
SARAH EATON.
may 30 tu3cfßt
Very Great Bargains,
CONSISTING of Table Linen, Scotch and
India Muslins, now felling off and well
worth the attention of Housekeepers to make
purehafc si Enquire of
7 homas Randall,
No. 88 Spru'te-Jlrret.
may 17 S_
The following Certificates of
FUNDED DEBT OF THE UNITED STATES
STANDING on the Books of the treasury, were
forwarded for London by the (hip William
Pcnn, Captain Jbfiah, which hath been captured,
and the Certificates supposed to be loft, viz :
3464. Ba. Deferred debt, in the name of Rev.
Edward Giddy, of I'hredrea, in Cornwall,
Great Britain, dated June 2, 1797. Certificate
No. 10,072.
Son. is. Six per Cent. Stock, in the name of
Edward Home, of Bevis mount, Hants, Great
Britain, dated May 30, 1797. No. 15196.
3610. 50. Deferred Debt, in the name of Will
iam Manning, of Ormfoy, in the county of Nor
folk, in England, dated July 10, 1797. Ko.
10199.
20183. 72. Three per Cent. Stock, in the name
of Jatinet Mathew, of Up;>er Seymour street,
London, Widow, dated OAober 31 1797. No.
11820.
For the renewal of the above Certificates, ap
plication is intended to be made at the said office of
jhe Treasury of the United States,—and all per
sons concerned aredefired to tak notice.
ALSO—IN THE SAME VESSEL,
Fifteen'(hares Stork of the Bank of United States in
thenanw of William Manning,of Ormfby, coun
ty of Norfolk, England, viz. Three Certificates
for five lhares each, dated January 1, 1797.
No. 25981, 25083, 25984.
For the renewal of which,application is meant to
be made to the said Bank of the United States, —
and all persons concerned therein arc desired to
take notice*
JN. FAUGH AN.
Philadelphia, may 4.
The following Certificates of Scares
IN the North American Land Company, standing
on the Books of said Company name of
Darnel Lifter, of Hackney, in the county of Mid
dlefcx, England—viz. No. 2151, reprefenjting
1309610 13105, ten (hares—No. 2150 —13066 to
13075, ten (harts—No. 2149—1305610 13065,
ten shares—No. 2148 —11509 to 11 $ 18, ten (hares
—No., 2147 —H471 to 11480—Amounting to
Forty Shares, were forwarded for London by tke
(hip William Pcnn, which having been captured,
said certificates are supposed to be loft ; for the re
newal ef which, application will be made to the
Board of ths said company-
Daniel Neal Lifter.
may 1 *d6w
FOR SALE,
A Black Man,
WHO has five years and a! half to fcrve, is a
good coachman, an excellent waittr, and
f'asbecn accustomed to marketing for a family—
his age about thirty two year>. For fu- ther parti
culars, apply tt the office »f this Gazette,
may si» §
FOR SALE,
800 pieces of Sail Cloth
io tens of Sheet Lead
Apply to
Richard D. Arden,
No. 26, North Front street.
June 7
John Miller, Jun.
NO. 8, CHESNUT ST REIT,
Has received, per the Richmond from Calcutta
A Quantity of Sugar.
Weft India Muscovado quality, which he offer# for
sale very lew for c»(h or at 60 days.
HI HAS ALSO ON HAND,
A variety of British Dry Goods,
which he will dispose of on the most reasonable
terms.
India Calicoes by the Bale, See. &c.
June $ dtf
TO~IET,
The House No. 83,
Chefnut, a few doors bglow Third street.
It is in good repair, and a capital Stand for any
kind of business. Apply as abov«.
June 5. 5
Bourdeuux. Brandy,
Claret in hhds.
White wine in half hhds. *
Claret
Frontinac ( w; . c f
Sauterne f
Lundi j
Red Skins
ALSO,
76,000 lbs. Jacquemel Coffee.
60,000 Bourbon do.
114 Boxes of white Havanna Sugar—and
50 Hogsheads of Tohaaco
FOR SALE BY
JOHN SAVAGE.
Now Landing,
AtMeffrs. Willing Sc. Francis's wharf, about
6,5,000 lbs. Coffee,
la Hogsheads, Ticrc-*s, Barrels, and Bags,
fOR lALI BY
SAMUEL MAYS,
No, 89, South Third Street
june 1 §6t
Choice St. Croix Sugars,
EOR SALE BT
James Yard.
ALSO,
A few pipes of remarkably fine Madeira Vine,
fit for immediate use, and at a reduced price.
June 4 d lot
Now Opening,
AiWiuuamM'Laws Saddle Manufaftory,
No. 72, Chefnut Street,
A general aflbrtmcnt of Horfenaan's
Pistols, direct from the Manufacturers in London.
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartouch Boxes, Va
lices, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harncfs, &c.
April 9 <fcf
Majfachufetts Di/irid.
By Order of the Honorable John Lowell,'
i Esquire, Jfcdge of the Diftrift Court for
the Maflachufetts DiftriA,
(f xrOTICE is hereby given to afl persons
I IN concerned," That a Libel is filed in said
Court by Chriltian O. Grutzmacher, late Co
m mander of the fbip Corona, of and from Ham
burgh, and Henry Andrew Heins as agents for
tjie owners of said Ship, against sundry goods,
wares and merchandize, saved from said (hip
< Corona, wrecked on Cape Cod within said Dif
tri£l on the 16th March last—which goods,
i wares aad merchandize, were consigned to di
• vers persons in Philadelphia, in the Diftri<ft of
Pennsylvania, and elsewhere—and that said Li
bel is filed as aforefaid, for the freights said to be
due to the Libellants on said goods, wares and
merchandize, and for neceflary expences paid
by them which have arisen upon the fame—
And that trial will bt had upon the afo.relaid
Libel at a Biftri# Court to be holden at the
Court-House in Boston, on Monday ihe eigh
teenth day of June next, at n o'clock, A. M.
SAMUEL BRADFORD,
" Marjhal of Maflachufetts"
Dated at Bqflon> Afrit / uwtf
Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries,
of the newest and most approved patterns, entitled
to the drawback, just received,
AN» FOR SALB BY
Alex. J. Miller & Co.
No. 64, South Front street.
may 18. $
The Cargo of the Brig Minerva
FROM BOURDE/tUX,
CONSISTING OF
Claret in hhds. and Cases
Oyl, Capers, Olives, Anchovies and Prunes
FOR SAL* BY
7 homas Fitz/imons
may 26. f4w
The following Certificates
OF Funded Debt anJ Bank of United States
Stock, were forwarded from England per
the Countess of Leicester Packet, in the nth
month, 1797. which vefTel has been captured,
and the Certificates supposed toba lo(L
4000 dollars per cent. Stock, Handing on the
books of the in the name of Bird Savage
and Bird Certificate no 189, dated July 19th, '96.
Ten Shares Stock of the Bank of Usited States
in the name of Miller, Hart & Co. of London,
in one Certificate, No. 46067, dated the ift day
of January, 1707-
For the renewal of which certificates, applica
tion is intended to be made at the Office of the
Trcafury of the United States, and at tha Bank of
United States ; of which all persons interested
therein, are dedred to take notice.
JOHN WARDER-
Philadelphia, 5 me. 16, 1798.
iaw3m
For Sale, at the .Stores of the Su]>
fcriberi, on Walnut street Wharf,
195 calks of nails aflorted
ao bales ef fail canvass, from No. 1 to 8
5 3 caflcs yellow ochre
1 5 tierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 doz. each
London particular ) Mad< .; ra wine ,
India market )
TenerifTedo. in hogsheads and pipes
Old Port do. in hhds.
Empty Claret bottles
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Muflinetd &c.
aflorted for the Weft-India market
4, 10, and 9 inch cables and 10 coils of cordage
Writing fiates, ink (lands and prefTes
ao purcheons Jamaica rum
I bale seaming twine
160 bundles (heathing paper
Nick/in (3* Griffith.
April 7 tuth&f.tf
Colle£toi*s Office,
Philadelphia, May Is> 1795. .
FOR SALE AT PUBLIC AUCTION.
AT the Custom-House, on Friday* the fif
teenth of June, 1798, the fallowing mer
chandize* which remain in the Cuflom-Houfe
stores more than nine months, unclaimed by the
owners or consignees thereof:
(XH) eight half faggots of steel
(TD) 102 one baleeirthweb
(FL) a quantity of^ncel
one cafe lamps
C&C one cafe bobbin
(W) one small box medicine
AB 203 one matted cafe Dutch books
I&C one keg herrings
(W) one small box of samples of buttons
1 a 3 three bales girth web
fVH] aoo one ditto ditto
fN] aOO one ditto ditto
(Itfo mark) eight jars olives
(ditto) one bundle flairs
E[LS] one small box locks
John David J one small box of plated Ware
Harry Toulmin] two cases of books.
inay i ? dt t? T
United States, 1 ~
Pcnnjylvan 'ia DiJlr 'iSt. j
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT in pursuance of a Writ to me directed,
from theHon Richard Peters,Efq Jjidge of
the J3xftri<ft Court of the United States, in and for
the Pennsylvania Diitrid, will be exposed to pub
lic sale Et the Cuftom-Hou.fe, in the City of Phil
adelphia, on Friday, the iOtl* day of June, inft.
at X a o'clock at noon
4 Bags of Coffee, and
5 Hampers of Porter.
The fame having been lil>clied against, prose
cuted and condemned as forfeited in the said court.
William Nichols, Marfhat.
Marftial'u Office, >
June sth, '9B- 3 _ STQt
By virtue of a decree of the honorable the nigii couit
of Chancery of Maryland, the ftfbferiber will fe.l
at Public Sale, on the premiles, on Monday, the
*s'h of Jure next at 11 o'clock in the forenoon,
TH aT valuable and well known Lot of Ground,
No. 53, aad part Of No'. 54, la:e ,the property
of Nicholas Slubv. merchant of ihia city, fituaied on
Thames-street, in that part of Baltimore city, called
Fells-Point, containing 38 square perches, with all
the buildings and improvements thereon. There are
ere&cd on this valuable property, several large and
commodious bri k Warehouses, capable of contain
ing from 15 to ao, 000 barrels of flour, wi.ha frame
shed adjourning thereto, fufliciently capacious to
hold 1000 hogshead of Tobacco; in peifeft fafety
from the weather jFrom this well known property
is extended into the deepest water in this harbot, an
extenfiveand well con(lr*&ed wharf,bounding on the
water 600 feet and upwards, and capable of receiv
ing (hips of any burtnen at the lowed tides. Fiona
the m an Y advantages this property is known to possess,
it is eftecmed equal if not superior, in point of com
mercial benefit, 10 any in this city, an<jl mull be a de
ferable ob c&. to those inclined to purchase so valuable
an estate. It is unnecelfrry to fay more on this fub
jes, as those intending to purchase, will have an op
portunity of viewing the premises . previous to the
day of sale.
The terms on which the above property is fold,
that the purchaser Qiall give approved negotiable
notes, with security to the trullpe for the payment of
one half the purchase money with interest, within
three months, and the residue with interest, within
fix months trom the davos sale.
SAMUEL MOALE.
may »& dißsthJc.
I hereby give Notice,
TO all my creditors, that I have applied by pe
tition to the judges of the court of common
pleas tor the county of Philadelphia, at > heir £sfi
fion in June term in this month, praying that they
would extend to rte the benefit of an ad of Gen
eral Aflembly of this Commonwealth, pal Ted the
4th day of April, 1798, entitled " An Act pro
viding that the perion of a debtor ftiall not be lia
ble to imprisonment for debt after delivering up
his estate for the benefit of His creditors, unlcfshc
hath been guilty of fraud or embezzlement," and
that the said court hath appointed Monday the
15th day of June instant, at 10 o'clock, P. M. to
hear me and my creditors at such place as the court
fliall be held, where they may att«nd if thry think
proper. JOHN GRAHAM.
June 11. §tls
T FOR SALE, "
At the Store of Jesse & Roiet Wain,
On Spruce ttreet Wharf,
Port Wine in pipes, hhds. &qr. casks
Lisbon Wine in pipes and quarter calks
And a few pipes of excellent Madeira Wine
may 16. eotf
Joseph Ricardo,
OF this City, Merchant, has aiTigned his pro
perty for the benefit of his Creditors, to James
C. Fiftier, Samuel W Fiftier, and Thomas Wllfon.
All persons who have demands are re
quested to furnifti their accounts without delay—
and those indebted to make immediate payment to
the Subscribers, a&ing Assignees.
James C. & Samuel IV. Fiiher.
No. 13, Arch Street.
march 31 4tawtf
Military Colours,
PAINTED ON SlLK—at
George Rutter y Co.
Portrait and Ornamental Painters,
IN a stile whick will endure the hardftiips of the
weather without injury, and whick for neatness
and exaAitudc of colouring cannot be furpalTed in
this city.
FLAGS and DRUMS
Furnilhed with dispatch, on the mod moderate
terms.
Portraits, Ornamental Paintings, Signs,
fire-buckets, <3cc. in that superb stile
of modern elegance, which, Mr. Rntter pledges
himfelf from ao years experience iu this city will
meet the entire approbation of hi* friends and the
public.
In the Military Line,
A variety of specimen's may be seen at their
Painting Room, Norris'sCourt, back of the Naw
Library.
may 3 d6w
notice;.
HAVING observed an advertisement of C.
Gullager, in terms derogatory of our pro
fessional abilities, we have to request the public
not to be imposed upon by foreign artists ; but to
decide upon the merits of each by a comparison ot
the work executed by both, as it is a mode almost
universally adopted by them to invalidate the ta
lents of ellablifhed artift#, with a view of deceiv
ing the public, and engrofling that bufinefe which
their profeflional knowledge in no wife entitles
them to. Well knowing that public opinion must
govern, we flatter ourselves that the work execut
ed by us will convince them of our great superio
rity over Mr. Gullager in every branch of por
trait and ornamental painting, and (hew the necef
(ity of judgingfor themselves.
N. B. In future no attention will be paid to thj
fdf-flattering advertisements of Mr G.
Any person wishing a supply of FLAGS and
DRUMS will please apply to Geo. Rutter and
Co. Norm* C®urt, or Henry F&ailsy, Germae
town. §6w may 8.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH 1, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN pursuance of the of Cangrcf* parted on the firth day of July one thousand seven hundred and
ninety-seven, entitled " An A& Hying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Pajdr", and the
Acl passed on the fifteenth day of Dec.mber, one thousand seven hundred aqd ninety-seven, entitled
" An Ait to poftponefor a limited time the commencement of the duties imposed by the Asl enti
tled "An AA laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from and after the
firft day of July eofning, thefeveralStamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and collec
ted throughout the x United States. ,
For every Ikin or pieceof Vellum or Parchment, or (heet or piece of Paper, upon which stall be
written or printed any or either of the inftrunaents »r writingJtollowing—to wit:
Dls Cts. | Mlu
Any Certificate of Naturalization, ..... j
Any Licence to praftice.or Certificate of the admiffion,enrolment •rregiftryof
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Pro6or, in any Court of the
United States, - 10
Provided, that a Certificite in any one of the Courts of the United States
for one of the said Officci, (hall so far as relates to the payment of the
dutyaforeiaid, be a fufficicnt admilTian in all the Courts of the United
States, for each and every of the said oiEces.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the fe*l or authority of the United States
(except for lands granted for military fcrviccs) - - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of afiy such grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for Undi granted for military services) ... 4
Any Charter-Party, Bottomry, or Refpondentia Bond, - 1
Any Receipt or discharge for or on account of anyl-egacy left by any Will or e
ther teflamentary inflrumrnt,or for any (hare or part of a perfor.al estate di
vided by force ol any statute of diftribnti.ns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Cljildren of the person deceased, the amount whereof (hall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and (hall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, ... - - 35
When the amount thereof flull exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
(hall not exceed five hundred dollars, ...
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional fuin nf !
Any policy of Insurance or inftrnment in mature thereof, on any (hip, vefiel or
goods insured from one diftr'nft to another in the United States, jj
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which
Insurance is made (hall not exceed five hundred dollars, - 2j
When the sum insured (hall exceed five hundred dollaTs, - I
Any Exemplification, of what nature soever, that (hall pass the seal of any
Court, other than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furHifil for the use of the United States or some particular fltte, - j 0
Any Rond, bill single or ptpal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promifr.Ty
note or other npte, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or with the United States or any (late, or for their
use refpeitively, - . -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - jo
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, 2^
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, j 0
And if above one thousand doHars, .....
Provided, that ifany bonds oc notes (hall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bond 3 or notes {ball be fubje& to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforefaid —viz. - -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 4
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dullai s, l 0
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 10
If above one thousand dollars, ....
Any Notes iflucd by the banks now eftablilhed, or that may hereatter be eflab
lifted within the United States, other than the notos of such of the said Banks ,
as stall agree to an annual competition, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders respectively, according to
the following scale. .....
On all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - - « f
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars,
Cn all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - - ... x
On all notes aboye five hundred dollars, . . %
Any Protest or other Notarial a£i, .... 45 '
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfioa, or to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
performed in the lite war, - - T is
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of CuSoms or dutit6, for lets than
five hundred dollars, ..... t
For five hundred dollars anl not exceeding two th«fand dollars, j
For more than twq thousand dollars, - - 3
\ny Rote or bill of lading for goods or merchandise to be exported,
H' from one diftridt to another diftriil of the United States, not baiag in the
fame State, .... Ic
If from the United States to any foreign port or plaee, - ij
Iny Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effefls, fnade in any
cafe required by law, /except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
rent or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) 50
Any Certificated a Share in any Inf'jrance Company, «f a (hare in the Bank of 1 •
the United States, or of any State or other Bank,
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - I 0
If above one hundred dollars, ...
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
11.
TheduticsaforelaiJ will be colleiled and received by the Supervisors, Infpedors aud'other Officer*
of Infpe&ion, in the several Diftriils, Ssrveye and Divisions of the United states, and by fwch other
persons a< shall from t* time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Difiriifls for
that purpose.
111.
The Supervisors of the several Diftri&s will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and as soon as
may be pra&icable, mark or (lamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Vellum, Parch
mert or Paper, wit* any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of the said duties • Or
(lamped vellum, parchment and paper n.av at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rates prescribed bylaw, by application to any Supervilor, Infpeaor, Officer of Infpe&i.n,
or other perfoa appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diftricls.
CI FEN under my Haud, at Philadelphia
the day and year abovermentiontd. '
OLIVER WOLCOTT, t
Marcli TO. Secretary of the Treahri.
TREASURY DEPA
March 30 th. 1798.
Public Notice if hereby given,
THAT by an ail of Congrcfs palled on the
19th day of March, 1798, the following
alterations and amendments have been made to
the a£l patted on the 6th day »f July 1797, en
titled "An ail laying duties on ftampcd vcl
" lum, parchment and paper."
The (lamp duties on debentures or nerfid
eate! for the drawback of Cuttoms or duties on
Imports are repealed.
A discount at the rate of seven and one half
per Centum, witl be allowed by the Supervisors
or Infpeflors refpeflively, to any persons other
than Officers of the Revenue, who may pur
chase atone time or procure to be (lamped, any
quantitiesofVelluna, Parchmentor Paper, upon
which the duties (hall amount to Ten Dol
lars or upwards.
111.
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold at
the rates prefcribedby law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for stamped Parchment or
Vellum a an additional price will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each &i» of Parch
ment, or Two Hundred Cents for eaah flcin of
Vellum of medium size, which may befurnifli
ed at the expense of the United States and pro
portionally for any letter quantity.
Giveu under my hand, at Philadelphia, the
day andyeir abo-vementioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treafttry.
To te Lei,
(Add pofleflion given on the id of May)
A genteel three story brick House,
II feet front, a»4 40 feet deep, with back buildings
and llibles.at present in theteuure of Major Jack
son. Enquire.at 187 South Third ilrect.
April 1. §
The Co-partnership of the Subfcribcrs,
TRADING UNDER THE FIRM OT
Joseph Davidson £sf Co.
IS this day dissolved by mutual confenc, all those ;
having claims against said firm, arc defircd to
render their accounts, and those indebted to make
payment to Joseph Davidfon, who is duly autho
rised tofottle tfee affairs of rhe concern.
JOSEPH J. MILLER
JOSEPH D VIDSON.
N. B. Thcstor« at the corner#! Market and
Fourth Streets arc now to be lot,—Enquire of Jo
seph Davidion. April «6 vr&sam
R'i'MENT,
TO BE SOLD,
40,939 acres of Land.
IN Greene County, Commonwealth of Peanfyl
vania, on the waters of Filh and Wheeling
Creeks and Ten Milt Ran.
These Lands arc fertile and well timhired, and
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten ycari ago for
five (hillings per acre j patented early in 1787, e
xcept 370 c acres, which were patented in 1791;
part of Jjiem were surveyed in 1783. The tra&
is between the Ohio and Monongahela, very con*
venient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of Wafliington, from 14 to 16 from the
villags of Greenefburgh and Wheeling.
On payment of one fourth of thepurdiafe mo
ney, a reasonable credit will be given forthe refi
ne. Enquire of the Printer,
april w. § ,
TO BE SOLD, " :
26,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of New York,, between the norther l *
bounds of Pennsylvania and the Snfquehanna
now, or late in the townships of Hamden and
Warren and county of Warren.
These Lands, Irom their quality and fituatioit*
arc a verydefirable objedl for any man whc means
to invest his money to advantage.
On payment of one third of the purchase mo
ney, a reasonable credit will he given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april 21. £
Bafkenridge—for falc
IT consists of 920 acres, almost all of which i#
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof th« later
Esrl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into fivtf farms, four of which are bounded on the
East by the river Pafaick.
Th-r« are on it a number of buildings, forming
afquare of nearly three aeres—The dwelling louse
is a vary convenient one and ( a fmallexpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard consists of 1500 finebearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other pirts of said
trafl near 300 other Apple frees—as also a great
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
bed and most delicious kinds. '
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
ForeftTreas, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its situation is about 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and iz from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acr&
in cash, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
' No. 78, Chcfnnt trcet.*
February 1. #*dtf
Secretary of the Treg/try.