«>« ™ Philadelphia Z>4/
By John Fenno, N*- ii 9 Chefnut Street. i
NvJSt*£9 17«4.J
For NEW-YORK,
lh«fiocnrw, faft iailinr Sloop
CONCORD,
Stephen Cahoont, metjltr ;
W ILL take freight 011 very
atoier.ts t<rm-; for which, or piffage (having
»pply to the nttjler on
hoard at Clifford's *M.
aiarch 16- *<t
For S*le,
NOW lying at Ruffrl'. Warf—
out then 77 tins—thre yaarsold, buUt of the best
materials-and i« well found—would answer well
for a coaster, a.fte has excellent accommodations.
For terms apply to
Gurney Smith.
march r3 f
For Bol>on,
Tie Ship
COMMERCE,
Richard Wai%oat, Majler.
To fail in a few days.
Jk.SSS®Any freight that may offer,
will be taken on vary moderate terms . for which,
•r paffags, apply to the C*i»tain, or to
IJaae Harney, jttn.
5, South
march I*. §'w
' FOR SALE,
the IMG
Weft Ind'-an,
Philadelphia bui'<. live oak pnd
cedar, is coppered, faeathed a"d bok*d t j «w.
*ld, fail, remarkably w.II, crries tj # r6o© bar
tels—now lying at South-ftraet wharf, ready to
load PETER BLIGHT.
march 6. __ § "v
, Fnr Hamburgh,
THISHIP
Dominkk Terrt,
Jacob D*ha*.t, Majlrr,
*£&ss££&££ 's«. Havir.g irreit part of her cargo an*
gajad.—For freight ai piy to
JeJfe is Robert Wain.
Fehauary 26 S
nTcklin Gritfith,
At their Store on Wilnat Str««t Wharf—
HATS rOK S4LK,
*8 hhds. of Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wine in pipes andhhds.
TenerifFe do. in p.pes
Old Port do. in hh Is.
Imperial Tea in quarters and eighths ef thefts
Sail Canvass, No. 1, to 8
Dimities, Ginghams, aad Muflinets, in packa*
ge* fuitablc f«r the Weft-India market
Nai)s afTirteJ
Black quart bottles
Qreens ware in hhds. and trates
Yellow ochre dry in eafks ;
And at.NL/ow—orlr, nn Jinard jjvp I
(hip Diana, from Livrrp'iol, expeAedrouon
as soon as the navigation is o})en,
Fl«eLiverfK>«l Salt
C.-als
Spinifh Brcfwa "j
Venetian Red J
Purple Brown 1
Patent White
t Write Lead 1
Red Lead J
Solc.'.tbar vitriol
»6o bundles Sheithing paper
Seaming Twine
DlAfcA,
r«r Sale or Chattel'.
ALSO,
Brig Amazon.
N. B. The late firm of Philip Nicklin & Co.
!j abw oha*ped t--
NTCKLIN
January 1. c °dtf
For Sale or Charter,
J||lL good hope
Will carry about i »oo barrels, and
j,ready totake in a cargo. For terms
apply to
Praters & Co.
No. 151, South Secosd-fireet.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar
and Rum, Madera, Lifcon,and TenerifFe wina.
November 7. dtf
The Commifliontrs
FOR carryinsj into tht TWENTY-FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Friendlhip, Limits, and
Navigation, between His Catholic Majeftjr and the
DnitedStatcsof Amtriea, hereby give information !
to all Persons therein concerned—That in <»r4cr
to terminate all differences, on account of thelofT
es fuftainedby the citizens of the United States, in
conference of their Vcflels :nd Cargoes having
been taken by the Subje&s of His Catholic Majes
ty, daring the late war between Spain and France,
that they are ready to receive (at their Office, be
tween the hours of ten and one o'clock, daily) all
complaints and applications, authorized by tht fai<i
Article, during eighteen months, from the day
of the date hereof, and that they have power to
examine allfuch persons as come bffore ( them, on
oath ©r affirmation, touching the complaints in
qu«ftion, and also to receive in evidence, all writ
ten testimony, authenticatsd in such manner as
they fliall think proper to require or admit.
m *y Order of the Comtn '}Jjtonert t
PETER LOHRA, Suretary.
Office % No. 109, IMitibcrry
fired% May l 7 ib t 1797- f .
Feb. *9B—Jim
* Those Printers in the several States xvh publijb
ed the fsbvvc advertifemert lajl Springs are to
rr-publtjb it one month, and fend their aocounis to P • •£»•
FOR sale;
By WHARTON LEWIS,
No. 115 South Front Street.
A quantity of Tanner's Oil,
4th proof Jamaica Rum, "> eDtitlcd to
ifl and id proof Sracdy, J <iiawb*sfc.
Madeira Wine,
juniper Barrios, See* 4s»
tfec. f. f
PHILADELPHIA; SATURDAY EVENING, MARCH 17, 1798.
Virginia Lands.
On Tuesday the 20th inft. will be fold for
Cash, by Public Auftion, at the Mer
chant 1 CofFcc-Houfci at J m
the evening,
T'H£ following bodies of Land in the
-»■ vC Mttfimtx, I-,*.
O,«oo Actes Gtutie oa the water* of Bie '
Steer Creek. *
16,998 A«rc« en the water. «f the Little Ken
harva and the weft fork of the Monongahela.
50,450 Acres on the water® of Buchannoa ri*er.
Particular defcriptia.u of the Lands, tnd an
examination of the titles may be bid by apply .
ing to ' 1 '
Footman Iff Ct. Auctioneers.
March n. Jttom
Will be iold on Wednesday the
atft of March, at 7 o'clock in the evening, at
the Merchants' Coffee Hocfc, for cj|i>
A««AaL Y to the last will and tefoment of
William Heyfham, deceafjd, and pe/Teilion
g'" n immediately, a valuable property in Arch
ftrept, bet ween Third and Faurth streets, eonfiftin-r
ot the Houfc No. 107, with the Lot on which it
flanrfs, a Stable and other improvements. The
house it feet front and contains ten rood apart
ments. The lot is of the fame breach a» the house
aed 109 feet dfep, with a wrll of water, and a
very capacious walUd cittern, both with pump, in
aompleat repair. The liable ll mds on the re t of
th« Jot, and will accommodate four horses and a
carriage. Hits property en; jys a perpetual priii
lege cf a 16 (eet cairt and an alley 8 f«ct wide et
tending to Cherry <Wt Iti central pofuiom, and
the advantages it poffefTe. with refped to free ven
tiirtion, render, it well worthy the attention of
any ptrfoa w.fhing to pofMs an eligible property
SO Philadelpi j:
Hexham, pr 7 Atlinj
fratuit B',tvet Sayre, I Executu*.
CONNELLY W Co. Au/f rt .
N. B. The houin w.ti be <>; ™ two day» pr.'vi
«m to t « fale.for the iafpefhon of tbeie wfco **. D»
toporeh.fr. m.ri-h
On 1 uelday, the i oth ihy of
April next, at 7 o'clot\k m the tvenrtiu, it
the City Tavern, Second Street, in the City
of Philadelphia,
WILL be exposed to public sale, fevenf*ca
tra&i or parcels of land fituared in Point
in ths county of Northumberland, and
containing in the whole fix thoufan 1 seven hun
dred aud sixty-sour acres and three quarters,
with the yfual allowance for roads.
Terms of sale, t-% of the purchase money on
the execution of the deed, t-j in three moatht,
and t-j in fix months, in good notes or ether
approved fecirity
CONNELLY &r Co. A,*B.
! March 9 tavma dtioa
i 'HE term of Co-partnership between the fub
l fcriber., trading under the fiun ®f John Mil
ler, jjun. and Co. expirts thi« day, xad by mutual
eonfent wiH not be renewed- The debts and con
cern. of the fame will be fettled by John Milier,
Jun. to whom all those indebted to the parrnerMp ,
are earnefily reqae(lsd to make payment to, with
out delay.
JOHN MILLER. Jun
- T
LANDING,
1 *
From on board the Ship Sally, from
Calcutta,
AND FOE SALs BY THE tfKiCRIIIIt,
1600 bags prime Sugar,
Bao do. Ginger
jo bales low priced piece Goods.
John Miller, Jun.
mareh J 5
~ FOR SALE, bt
John Miller, jun.
Na. 8, Chefnut-ftreet,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
AMONSST wmsa .Ml •
Guirahs Mamoodies
Baftas Sannas
Guzzcnas Tanda CofTaea
Guziies Emertijs
Blue Cloths Calicse.
Palampoors Romall Handkerchief.
Amnngft them are a great proportion of the ma
nufactures of Patss.
British Dry Goods,
ALSO,
Fotty puncheons of high proof Rim.
F-Artiary T 9 $
Aiex. J. Miller & James Davis,
Having entered into partuerlhif under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller Co.
INFORM their friend s ia town and country, that
th< y have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South Frent S'/reet, Philadelphia ; whera
they now have, and intend kceeping a general af
foatmert of India, Germ**, Jrjb, Frticb and Sri
tijb Manufactures for sale, oa advantageous terms
for cash or a short creuit.
February ly • stf
Landing
From on board the Stiotu Maria, from Ctpen
hagen,
A few Tons Ruflia Clean Hemp
3»o pieces Ravens Duck
ijo pieces Ruflia Sheeting
200 bolts Rufiia Duck, and
A quantity of Swedes Iron
For Sale t>v
JOSEPH ANTHONY tg Co.
IVbo have on Hand t
ill and id proof Bourdeaux Brai>dy
4th proof Spanish ditto
New-England Rum
London
» 1 '.I » t and quartar Calks.
London Market j '
Old Claret in Cases _
14 hhds. Coffee just arrived
Heft Boston Beef ia barrels
Maekrell i« do.
Halifax S.ilmon ia do.
A small invoice of Rbode-lfland Cheese
Sperraaciti Oil
Tanners ditto
No. t) 3, Boston Sail Duck
Russia Cordage, and
An Invoice of Uutch Hollow Glass iVare.
March I. dtw
St. Croix Sugars.
26 hogsheads belt ST. CKOIX SUGAR,
»OR SAtI BY
JQHN NIXON V Co.
Fib 9 iui-^wif
LANDING
Frun on board the Sebooner R.tuatt, from
230 Bags, containing 30,000 v?t. Coffte,
Far S*U I,
SAMUEL HAYS,
• ' _ M«. 5*7 Chefnut-fcttef.
V\ ha ba« remaining on hand 6,<~00 pieces In
dia NANKEENS, of»fuperior quality.
Mnvl. i s . ,j4 t
JUST RECEIVED,
'««« ro a t-a i,mNci,
JOX SALE, ty tie suescjticsns,
no hhds. Coffee
4C tierce* da.
100 barrels da.
l«o bags do
110 hoglheadsof MufcevaJo Sujaf
80 barrels of do.
40 hogfceads as Molasses
4 bales of Cotton
2 bog#ie»ds of Cocoa
WILLINGS (5 1 FRANCIS.
Penn.llreet.
march l».
lading from on board the £hip
Teancffee, cipt. Smith, fr«m Hamburg,
And FOR SALE by the Svb3chibcks,
325 pieces Quadruples Silefus
400 do. Platilias
too do Creas
J 2 da. do. ila Mcrlait
lo« do. Dowla*
ao do. red tlriped rabia*
20 -O. blue
H3G dozen bordered Ha- dkerchieft
Eri: Sfl 1 Lewie Bti/lmanz,
2.1, Sauth third lireM.
ALSO. OH HAND,
A aafe of printed MuAins suid Cili-oev
_ anarch 1 %. jg t
Frefli Teas.
Ju/t Imported, in tbe Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Cantos,
And For Sale, if
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At hh Comptiag Houfr, No. 54, Chofnut-ftreet,
AND BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Coaipting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon, Young
Hyson, Hyfoo Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
Alia,
China Ware, allotted; black aad coloured Lute
strings and Sattins, Naakeens, Cassia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin aad luteftriog Umbrella*,
whale-bone sticks.
They iom, atf, ]P,t S.U,
Ell wide Perians, Bandanna Haadkerchitfs,
Treach Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai in boxes,
march 8. j (
To-morrow will be Landed,
From «n board the brig Benjamin Franklic, fapt.
Jenes, from Bord«(iux,
Claret of superior quality, viz.
Of the vintages of
WHITE WINE, of the vintage as 1790
tor, ;ali bt
PHILIPS, CRAMOND 6sT Co.
march 7. §
i FOR SALE,
i Br T«e hjbscribers, No. 21, Penn-flrcet,
j The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
ConfjTwg of
Baftas, of various quaditics and prices,
Coflaea Panjum Cloths
Sanahs Gu?.ze.y do.
1 Humhunu Charconna Dorr*
Bl*e Cloth Tjnjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Muitnuls
Matnoodys Checks
Maharagongcs Patna Hkfi.
Oinghams Mwlmu da.
Guzzenas Bandannoca
Gunahs Sjflerfoy
Piniafcoes Choppa Rotnals
Sa'gatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romal* Persians of various col.
Mack Pulicats
too tons SUGAR
}®,coo lb. PEPI-'ER.
Willings & Franeit.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
commodious flare the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-streets.
Also—A few Bales as vjadrift Hkfs. of ele
gant patterns and best colours.
February 8. dtf
Red Clover Seed as the best quality.
MADEIRA WINE,
Old, aad fit for immediate use, in pipes, half
pipes and Quarter calks.
Teneriffe Wine,
And, Window Glaf«—all* of which will bt fold
cn v«ry reafoiiable terms, by
John Craig,
No. 12, Dock Str«et.
march T - w&stf
ROSS & SIMSON,
HAVK, FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, ColTas, ar*d
a quantity of Bengal COtTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags atid boxes
Jamaica, "J
St. Vincents, > RBM.
and Bengal 3
joocaflcs RICE, and
A parcel of (hip baslding REB CFBAR.
C)£l. 17. §
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILT, commence drawing Momlay, the toth
inft. Tickets for Sale ir this Lottery, at
Severn Dollars, at WM. BLACKBURN's Lottery
aad Brokers Office, No. 64, Soutl Second-flreet—
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge I.ottery, at 7V*
Dtllars, where check books are lept lor register
ing and eximining in these, the Oity of Walhing
ton, No ll.and Paturfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in sioftjof the Lotte
ries authorised by law in aay of the State* of the
Union.
N. B. The bafinrfs of a Bxoiett, inbuyingand
felling all kinds of Public Stocl and Securities,
difco»ating Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Land*, Houfas, See. &c. will bk duly attended to,'
I WIA. t - '"llßt'RN.
I 5
A Great Bargain.
\T7TLL BE SOL!), if applied fprimmed*
W lj, Tweaty Tboafand Dollar* in Bill'
Credit, upon interest at five percent, per aooy
now lougvtl in tie Trtafury, tnd endorsed by
United* States, with a promise to " jay the iutr
rtil annually."
Enquire at the OSes of THOMAS McEWEN
ts" so. - . v 'P' —f H« % u
"Wanted to live in the Countiy,
About five milcsfrom this city, a sober Fri
day Ma* who underftaacis f ardening and ttir
management of a few aero »f land, and would
not objc<3 to attend a couple ftf horlc* 3«ci»
a one my meet with liberal wages by applying
at the office of this Gazette.
N. D. Noce ated apply but thof of unex
ceptionable chiratfters.
March ft. dt*
:T7~b*~J»u,
An elegant Country Seat,
Containing 6 acres and 40 perches. With a seat
two story brick Hoafe and kitchen thereon, an ap
fls Ordiard, &c- lituate on the Irifls trafi line, iu
the townlhip of Moyamenfing, absat oiteraile from
tkt city ai Philadelphia. Further partiiulsr* will
be uu.de knovva upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Casette.
The improvements upon this place, for title and
elegance ft and unrivalled.
N. B. It tbe above place is not fold before the
ioth inft. it will then be rented, far the Summer
fcafon only. § march J
Wanted,
An aAive, cleanly, industrious wtunsn to cook
aAd do the bufincfs of the kitchen. Such a one
will he allowed good wages, and no other need ap
jjly.—Enquire of the I'rinter.
I'abruary 7 $
A Wet Nurse wanted,
A healthy Worn art, who can be well recummen
ded. ■ ' Apply at this Ofaa».
march IS. f.
Notice is hereby given,
i npHAT application will be made for the renewal
[ X of 0 Certificate of a Share In the Bank of the
Unite d States, {landing in the name of the Subscri
ber, No. 5004, and dated July 11, 1797— the fatua
having been loft.
JOHN GRAHAM.
march 5 J6w
To LET,
And may be entered on immediately,
A good dry Store,
Threeftarie* high, and in an excellent stand for
bafiaefs. Apply to
Tbomat IS JoJbua Fitter,
march I. } No 5, Dock-ttreet.
Landing this day,
From on boatd tha schooner Two Friends, Dal
>el Crawley, Master,
j™>ica RUM,
FOR SALI BT
George Latimer Ss* Son.
nwember q. 6
NEXT door but one to the corner as Fifth-(W«...
occupied by the fubCcrih«r. J»« eligible fitaatw".
is well known—The rooms are spacious and con
venient, aad finiflied in ihandfome ftile —It has
a double Kitchea, and e«silent Cellars, with aa
Ice House and rain water Cistern, and there i( a
Pump of good water near the kitchen door.
For terms apply to
GARRETT COTTRINGER.
march 1. jtw
- r— TO'LET, ~'
And pofTuffivn given rbe I ft April next,
The House No. 258 High-street,
At ptefent cvaupird by P. BvtLxk, Hfq.
Applyto
Edward Shoemaker,
No. I»7, High street.
February 24 eod,t)w
Valuable Property for bale.
FOR SALE, . ,
THAT well known EBate, called SHREWS.
BURY FARM, formerly the reudence of
General John Gadwalader, fnuate on Sadafia* Rj
ver, in Kent county, Maryland—containing a
bout 1900 acres of prime LANO. upwards of 56c
«f which are in woods. The Buildings are all e\-
ce le.nt, and confiftof ahandfome Duelling House,
two large Barns wirhC'ow houles, Stables for fifty
horses, a spacious treading floer tndcr cover, a
granary, two Overseer's houses, two ran
ges of two flor.y buildings for Negroes (one of
them new aid of brick), Cam a Smqak
house , Ac. &c.—The whole Etlate beinj nearly
furretmdrd by water, it requires but little fencing,
and has a good S.lad sod Herring ffh:iy. It "is
1 conveniently fit jated fcr both tbe Philadelphia and
Baltimore markets, with two landings on a navi
gable river but a Ihort fail from Baltiiiiorc. There
is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
the premif»s; also, a variety of excellent fruits of
different kinds. The foil is mostly a rich loom.—
The whole will be fold together, or divided into
smaller farms (for which the buildings are conven
iently situated) as may suit the purchaser. The
Stock on said Farm, consisting ol Harfes, Cattle,
Sheep, &c. will also be difpofad of.———Kor further
| particulars apply to Gboksc Hastincs, on the
1 premises, or to the fuUcriber, in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jus.
Vebruary 24. ■ taw6w
Balkenridge—for sale
IT cenfilts of 920 acres, 4lmoit all of which it
a fine rich Meadow, (the reGdence of the late
Earl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into fivi farms, four of which arc bounded oa the
Eailby the river Pafaick.
There are on it a number of buildings, forming
afquare of neatly three acres—The dwelling house
is a very convenient one andja small cxpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard confifls of 150® finsbearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—«nd there is on other psrtsot said
traiS near 300 other Apple l'ren—as also a great
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
bed and aioft deli' lous kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
ForeftTreos, that add to tffc beauty and conveni
ence of the place Its situation is abfcut 18 miles,
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : .to do.
from Morris-Town, aad 12 from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in calh, on deliver,- as the deeds. Please to en
quire of T r<4cEUF.N & Co.
i-'a, 7!, Ciafnut trcet.
F«ir*:ry t. —>i tf
1
ft t-fhf
EmbeHii
Portraits o
ual paiatlut,
match It.
Ran away
on the intt. n
Xbotnat M'Guiro>-k..
feet 8 inches h:gh, roun,
ftiort black hair, ter.irkabfx
hit temple* ; he >3 a forward,'...
and unprincipled fellow, and decoy,
service Jtfty Corbet, about the fame
height, but of a milder clifpofition, and mo. c.
der u>ake, Ciart brown i.uir ; their working ap(~
relfr*> blue cloth over jackets, lined with cc.rf*
biown linen, theck and brown linen fhiris, gr»y
yarn flocking;, mixed Jwilled grey cloth trowfer*,
and rufTett leather fhoies; they have other eloathiag
which aitogithrr gives. tfetm the appearance ef fta
firing me«, Kyt have bein brought up to the (arm
ing bufwr ft ; 110 deuht will have forged passes anti
change their ramce and apparel ai convenient, and
have taken the pest road to Philapelphia, 1 pat
chafed them ;be lad full of capt. Rsi'ms, in Balti
more. I will give Fifty Dollars for securing th*m
so that I get tlura, and will pay all rcafarable.
charges if brought home, or if fepara:cd, Thirty
Dollars for Thomas, and Twenty for J;ffry.
ARTHUR BRYAN,
Head of Wyf, Talbqt County—March 7.
match 14 iaw}w
Custom Hctuse,
Di/riM of Pennsylvania, M»nt 6tt, 1797,
MERCHANTS of PHILADEI.PHIA,
X who may have iaj account or knowledge of
the capture or detention of any fhiporYcflel, ta
go, or other property, belonging to citizent of tHs
United Stat«», refidipy within thit diftriit, by or
under the authority of foreign nations, (ince the
firft dayt>f O&ober, 1791. are particularly reqnet
ted to give in information thereof, to the Collet
tor of the Port of Philadelphia, at soon as may
b< convenient; fptcifying the name of the ve.lei,
the captain's name, tlie number o' tons, the eft*,
slated value of the vessel, if condemn-d, the tftj»
mated value of her cargo, or other property, whi
ther carried, and by, or under the authority 0?
what Ration captured, with foch observations at
may be thought necessary upon the circumftanct*
of each cafe, in order that statements thereof may
be trinffnitted to the Secrttajy of the
who is required to lay the fame before tb« Senate
and House of Reprefcntativesof the Uuitod States
march 7. Kt'ot
LANDING, ""
aid rot nil,
The Cargo of the ship Fair American^
Sames Burke, majler, from Aux-Caytt, now lv
ing at Qell't wharf,
OONSItTINfI at
Molafles, Coffee, Sugar and Dy®
Wood,
Apply to
hi_ - H^l? V T V —ni
"ITHE Subscriber informs thole
JL to whom hen indebted, that a person wj!l
attend every day, Sundays txcepted, until tha id
of April n xt, from the hours of 10 o'clock inth«
morning till 1 o'clock tn the afternoon, at the ko«i«
formerly occupied by him in Chefnat-flreet, for
the putpole of (hewing all books, papers and let»
tors regarding his pa ft commercial tranfafiions to
such of his creditor; as may think proper to attend
and examine them. /
JAMES GREENLEAF.
march t. eotlA
At a Meeting of the President
and Managers of the Delaware aad Schu vlkilz.
Canal Company, February 17th, 1798,
Revived, That ten dollarson each (hare 01 Stoclt
be railed for ; and that the Treasure*
give public notice thereof agretabfo
to law.
Kxtrapfrom tie Mir.vta.
GfORGE WORVtALL, Secretary.
AGREEABLE to a resolution of th« Prefirfcfie
and Managers of the Dehrrart andSeiuyltili Canal
Company, the Stockholders are hereby required to
make a payment of ten dollars on each of their
f?fpe>ftivc (harts oh or btfi.re the ill of pril naxtf,
to WM. GOVETT, Treasure,-.
February tB. aawtA
James C. Samuel W. Fiihcr^
AT THE;* STORE,
No.Jljs cornrr of Arch and Front flrett.
tl AVE FOR SAf.K,
Cotton ard worlled Hnfiery in trunks, adored
A few bales red, white, and yeliow Flanoei
Ditto futty roniall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Fullicat fi'.k ditto
Dit'o Pondicheny and Ma jrafs ditto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengsl black Taffet'iet
4000 vioctsNatikeent, and
Few chests belt Hyson Tea
Ajjn—lsoo box s hell London Window Glafe,
from Bby 6, to 19 by
Ware afforttd, which they will difyofi of cLeapt*
than any in the city.
Not *8 it^wtf
A Garden to be let,
FOR a term of years, situate about a mile froia
the Court-house, contain* ahout two acres uj
land, it a high rtateof cultivation. A large grfcea
house, isereiledon the premifej, about forty fee|
long, with a lodging room, and feed loft above,
A confideraMe quantity of kitchen articles, rets
regularly disposed of on the fpo».
Enquire at ji, South Second-street.
_ is. to jt
FOR SALE, at
Wm. Young's Btok Store,
No. 51, Second Oreet, the corner of Chefnut ftrett,
REPORT of the Committee oi the House of
Reprefentttivts ofthe United States, apn oin w
ed to prepare and report Articles of Imprachrnent
againil \*ILLI*M BI.OUN l , a Senator tf tlic
Uni ed Statet, impeached of high crimes and n:i£-
demeanor., uiade in furfuancc of a rrfolu 10.! of
the Houft of Reprefentativet, authorizuig the fai4
Committee to fit during the recess ol Ccngrcf,, and
inP.ruait.g them '• to enquire, and. hy all l»wf»i
" means, todifcover th. whole uature and est nt
" of thccflFer.ce whereof the (aid William Bloun;
'• (lands irapeache.:, and who are the parties ani
" iiTccir.tes theteiu."
PrinttU by order r/fkt Kivfc if'Rtprc/tntativ ■*
Decmnicr i«i
I
o <
yice t
.i(»al
j point
was ilill
<Jef<-»five
jthout foi*-
refpeA to
irtout any oceaiion
arance. Cosfidenng
what are the refo
.to be considered ? A pro
n'Jhing the frigates, an appro
a of a sum of money for a foundiry
no commercial ration ought to be
-.eftitiltt) and prother for improving our
fortifications. Two of these measures, he
f.ud had long fiiice been fan£tio»ed by the
miufe, aid they were all ncceflary for the
piottAion of our commerce, which was now
in danger of being utterly dellreycd. The
city ot Philadelphia slone, within the last
fi*ty daysliad i«ft half a million of do'lars.
The meafures-now propoftd were merely de
ft and undegone discussion
tat little difference of opinion could exist,
upon the propriety of principles which had
been feitied and agreed U{ on. It would be
t(me enough to eipatiite upon the fuHjeft
of *nr rnmnii' r i""trt to France, when new
measures (liali be !»ro>igbt forward, orifinat
ing in the failure of thur iniffior,. As to
the wishes of his frierdi from S. Carolina
*nd New-York, for unanimity, hcconfeffed
he did not contemplate any great ananimity
'.vith i\'"pe£l to all the mcafares that would
Ik- neceiTary to be pursued ir. the present cri
sis. He believed it would be incumbent on
those whj cotifidercd the nation as placed in
a dangerous fitijation to advocate fueh mea
sures as fliaT! appear to them necessary, what
ever might be the conduA or feotiments of
others j artdlio-.vever flncerely he might wish
for the event, he faw,nothing which encou
raged him to espedl unanimity in their de
term!natii)i.s. He believed, therefore, ge»-
tk-men mu.t d.'fptnfe with this advantage,
and do what was rcquiiite for our national
define.-and honor—they must do their du
ty and leave the event.'
Mr- Pincku E.T could not agree with the
gentleman just fat down, in throwing any
imputation upon gentlen>en who wilhed to
protraft the coniideration of the bufijiefs
liropofeu.
Mr. O. explained by faying that he had
expressly Hated that if upon *»y ■»</■» 1»'»-
thought it jnftifiable to invetligatf t:»;
lives us p-eutiemes, he iliould.be
~ J i euuiu iimii viimii"! UlSffliliau 3.
n.itted that part of his observations which
might bear that conftru£l.iijn. Allusions of
this kind were best kept out of fight. He
belie'ed all hnd the fame ri«ws. All, he
believed, wifiied to avoid war. He was sure
this wasthe desire of both fides of the heufe.
Unfortnnately they differed in the means
btfl to be put sued for preserving peace
fowe gentlemen think an unprepared state
the best ; others think it is wisest to be pre
pared for the wofft. He was of the latter
opinion ; but he believed that the motives
of gentlemen who differed from him in opin
ion wereequally. pure withhis own. Perfed
unanimity as to the moans to be pursued,
could scarcely be but, he believ
t<J there was a perfefl unanimity both in
that house, and throughout tht 1 country, in
a wifli to avoid a war. With refpefl to the
q'.:efiion before the house, it did not go to
the paint » hieh,gcntlemen apprehended.—
7t went only to the providing of the mean!
of prote&icu at house; and the reason why
this fubjefl was now brought forward, he
believed, was owing to the unusual unanim
ity which had appeared in the felecl com
mittee as to the-propriety of the measure.
The consideration of any other meafnres
which might be neceiTary in cgijfequepce of
our <Jifpute wilh France, fueh as arming our
merchantmen, an embargo, or convoys,
would be peflponcd until it was seen whether
any farther information would be received
from the Prefider.t—Mr. P. said, it ap
peared to the committee that there was, at
,-> ieart, a probability that this country might
be involved in a war; and they thought we
(High; not to exhibit the rxtraordinary
fpeaade of remaining, not withstanding this
appreheufion, in a state of unpreparednefs.
Under this idea, Mr. P. thought there was
r.o ncceflity for poftponitig the measure, and
Itoped gentlemen would, therefore, f*c the
pmpriety of going into a committee of the
whole at preft&t. If there was a difference
»f opinion ag to the propriety ef entering
upon any particular i'ukjefl, it might be
poftpc.iicd j but he fuppefed there wc-uid be '
certain meafurts upen which there wa«ld
be a pretty general »g»eemcnt.
Mr. Giies did not suppose a few days
delay would make acy difference en the pre
sent bufintfs. So far as felf-defence would
go, he «as as ready t>> adi as any member
in the House; but there were different id<a*
of fclf-deience. It was his idea that it
i ouli not be carried beyond our eoaft where,
liuWever, he d;d not expedt ar.v assault.
Lji:t defence there «»s always proper. It
had been said that there was little j.robabil
iiy that any unanimity could take place as
to the mrafureo ncc:ffar/io be taken. He
Jikcd th« g.ntietr.an r.sm Mjff^chufctti,
;tl\er his hypotheticall wy "■
c. *
with the gentleman from b. thi
,r. Pinckncy). H.drfnot be- of
U the members of that hoult '
,r of peace. He believed iome hn
werf in favor of war. He had lor
.in opinion from a variety of decl
which he had heard in that hodfc, ha
the variety of meafurM which had ca
ropofed. No gentleman could fatn
wind that he was in favor of peace,
- he took arms in hit-hands to go -o
HeJbelicved that there was not only
p»,t of this house, but apart of this gov- «
eri.ment, determined on war. Hewa.b.m- *
felf fcr peace ; »nd gentlemen might at-
O cribc to him whjtf rootivci tiicy pica led. J* t
..ice the other hind,' those in favor of war Itall
uaal events, would take the rcfpomibilitv «f that
mcafure. If, then, there was a war motive . n
Hill and a pace motives it was in vain to ejtpei
,fiv. unanimity. He bad f«me reason for objetf, n
ore- in? to this meafare under this view. e '
t to coufidered the prefentpiopofitions as intend- '
if,on ed to afford a defence beyond the l.ciiU ot
rlnc the United States, as a part of that system
■ e fo- which had a direst tendency to involve us
pra . in war. Tt was said this WMMIy the com- r
pro- mencement of a system, aud it was tins fyi-
iary tem which gave him raoft alarm.
obe But it was said, theic is great impatience 1
' <,ar in the public to know what Congress intend £
~ he to do. If tbis be the ease, this impa'icuce J
r the he said, coght not to be Indulged. He Jid
r the not wi(h to be hurried into measures by any *
now fueh fuggef.icn. He believed if there »an
The impatience in the public, it is in favor ot
. l a st peaee, and produced by the fears of w ® r - '
'lars. Mr. G. asked whether the house had all
y de- the necessary information before them. The '
Son < gentleman frnm S.Carolina (Mr. Rutledge)
exisT, informed the house that otar commifiioners 1
i hud' had not had an audience. Hedid not know 1
lid be 'he technical moaning of the ward audience.
>Hje£t He fuppsfed they had addressed themselves
i lew tf» the minister ef foreign affairs ; but, per
(inat- haps, after some &f>je£tions as to their pow-
to er«, they may not hare been received. The
rnlina gentleman fays the letter of our commiffi
feffed oners exhibits a lamentable fatf. Thij is
imitv ,rBC » hut it is not aeeeffary to know what
voiild to it ? Ought not the haufe to be in pof
lt cri- session of a biliary of the proceedings ! It
•nt on surely ought. Suppose those commiffioncrs
cedin were not poffefTed of proper powers, could
n, ea . it be expefte'd they weuld be received?—
what- When the house knew the ground npon
its of which our ministers had been refufed, they
t wish would bt able t» speak upon the fubjed.
ncou- He would mention another cireuifcHance,
; r d e . in which he, for once, coineisled in opinion
, gen- with the gentleman from Maffachufetts,vii.
,t 3 ge, that the house ought to tak» }ip this fufcjtft
tional without reference to any foreign power, and
ir du- merely as it refpefis our commerce. But
j bad {they, he «flced, all the information
•h the ' which they could wish on this fubjeft ! He
r a ny believed not. There were two a&» of the
ed to British parliament which were mare alarm
ifinrf* ing even than the decree of the French di
re&ory. The French had made an attack
ehad upon our ntntral rights ; that wss,
'»« 1" '''rStr fl'T'V.'al .ViJultTce to be apprehended wag
; jpjisiiteiy greater from the Britiflv ftattites,
than fvofa th« decree of the direftOry.
izdo. And before he fat down, he would re
which mark, that though those a£ls pal Ted in July
ans of Isft, and it ti.ight be presumed that oar min-
He iftcr would not be dilatery in transmitting
11, he thein, so t'lat they must have been receiV
sfure «d in Augull or September, yet they were
isufe. not till lately laid before the house, and
neaas 'hat after a proportion was brought for
ce— ward to call for them. They hare been since
(late referred to the eommittee of Commerce and
? pre- manufaftures, and they will not report,
latter and the chairman has laid a resolution upon
jtives the table for the purpose of producing a rc
opin- port.
rrfed Mr. Hartir said it was not unusual for
sued, the gentleman from Virginia to display his
eliev- ignorance of fafls. If it was, it would ap
th in pear wonderful that he fhoiild be ignorant
y, in that these adts had long since been before
0 the the public in the news papers.
jo to Mr. Giles did not suppose that the gen.
d.—— tleman from S. Carolina would get much
lean* from his polite method of exprefling himfclf.
why He knew it was usual for him to . suppose
!, he he had a monopoly of knowledge ; but he
mim- did not suppose his telling an enlightened
com assembly this, eonld produce any effeft in
sure. his favor. He could only fay he had not
"ires seen these a£ls in any news-paper, though
ce of he was in the habit of feeing a great num
-1 our bcr of papers. He ffiould °be glad to fee
roys, them there •, and he should hare sent them
ether there for publication, only that he waited
fived for the committee's report upon them'.
ap- Mr. G. concluded by faying, he difdaiu
s, at td what might be said by any one as to his
light motivet; for they must poflefs more ii)gean
it w« ity than he to discover any iatereft which
:nary he could hsre separate from the interest of
i l his the country, efpeeially as it related to the
Inefs. landed interest of the country,
ewas Mr. S. Smith said, he undcrftocd it
;,aud wasthe wiihof the chairmaH of the com-!
c the mittee for the prote£lion of commerce and|
f the the defence of the country, to call up
rente the rtfolution for completing and equipping
ering j the frigates, and that for the fortifications,
rit be and not the one for the purthafe of addi
,.id be tional veficls.
vould Mr. Siwall said, he should not insist
upen any other, if it (hould not meet with
days the wishes of the committee,
e pre- Mr. S. Smith was in favor c'f going in
voiild to a committee of the whole on the frigates
:n.ber and the fortifications. He fuppefed' the
ideas chairman of the committee would be able
lit it to give the necessary information with rcf
'here, pedt to the frigates ; but with refptd to
Jit.— the other matters referred to the fame cem
"• ™»ee, he did not think the house had filf.
babil- ficient infermntion upon which to aft. As
cc aa to the two afls of the British parliament
He which had been mentioned, Jjc.bel'cved tKey
-stti, Wo.}:i bf-mcre to the commerce
I,
, ■ tti* United States than 'pei
ll'i l»bjta IWld bt before P '
I
1 » Aucuft. Immediately up
have called for them, "e Pjade a verbal U
call and tjiey were promi fed, but they
not received fill five'or fix week, afterwards t
in tli« v-ay which had been dated. g
Mr. C» > mpl.k said there was no differ- fe
f nct of opinion in the committee of com- n
merce and msDufafture» t as totht:fe «g
being in llrift conformity to ibe tr <aty >
the only difference was »nh re to re
porting a remedy to the eviu artfuig :rom g
'Hie Speaks* complained that gcoth- d
. mtn did not confine tbemfelve« to the que - o
. | von. What was the opinion of the com- <
. i mittee of commerce and manufa&ure* \-'t '
refped to the British J<a» had nothing to do a
! with the present queffion. •
f Mr. J. Parker thought the hoiiie ought c
! to go into a committee of the who'eon the i
3 state of the union, in order to take up tlie t
resolution with refpedl to the frigates. Jn t
the present critical state of our country, be r
thought it was necessary they fh</uid be tin- 1
- ifhed, in order to defend our commerce a- t
1 gainst the pirates of one nation as well as
. those of another ; for he wished to opp»fe }
] the unjust attacks of all. Officers, he said, v
, were appointed for the frigates, and they '
wt re in a llatc of readiness. The one at 1
f Baltimore is ready to bend her fails, and j
might be got into the ocean in four or five
1 weeks. He hoped, therefore, the house <
e would go into this business ; though the o- 1
) ther fubjefts, he thought, would be befi. de- •
5 ferred until th: house had further informa
v t">n. .
Mr. Harper, had not the least objection
to going into a committee cf the whole, for
r . the purpofeof voting a sum of money tor
r. completing and equipping the frigates. It
e was to any new measures which might be
necessary with refpeft to a foreign nation,
that he alluded ; and though he felt prepai
!t cd to go into any of the measures proposed,
f. and much stronger ones, yet he saw there
[ t were gentlemen who wished to have farther
rl information before they afted. And when
Id hitlery of the business before
_ them* they would, probably, be convinced
)tt of tlie propriety efjoiniag to carry intoeffeft
>y the measures proposed. If a few votes could
begained by this delay, he was desirous of
e> obtaining them, and he believed the-houfe
, n watild arrive at the end of the business as
jr. soon as if they now to ro into it. Mr. H.
ft juftified the executive*ig»iiifi the charge of
delay in not communicating the Britifli a&s
u t and said they were well known to the mer
in chants of the country, as their corielpon
le dents in England took care to give them ev
lc ery interesting information. «■
n . With refpeft to the question of war or
jj. peace, he would state his opinion. The
;k gentleman from Virginia had said that he
d w> oot j JI\I ta iinfiieirT bt 11'^,
aa fever^l li tyji«|ua«Jcn»'w!cdged, that if gentle
.s> men meant by peace, that we (hould sub
mit to the insults of a foreign power, he
■ e . was not for peace, though he wifced to ftt
]y serve it, and would do all he conld to pre
n. lerve.it, if we could obtain redress for our
ig grievances. But if nothing was left to us,
V- but either to submit, or go to war, hecer
re tainly would be for going to war. He be
id lieved that this was the sentiment of the A
ir- merican people, which would be re-echoed
ce from all parts of the Unioa. He believed
id that state of things was -arrived, when this
■ t , country' must either submit, or refifl. He
, n was willing, however, that a delay (hould
c . take place for the communication which
might be expe&ed from the President.
or Mr. Livingston said, until this mo
lis ment, he had determined to give his vote in
p- favor of going into a committee on the state
nt of the Union, for the purpose of voting a
re sum to equip and man the frigates,believing
that that meafore would have no relation to
n. any foreign nation ; but when heard
:h gentlemen fay they were prepared for mar, -
,f. and that the period ivat arrived for it, he
fe dreaded to put arms in their hands, left they
ie (hould be made an ill use of. If from a
•d knowledge of the late dispatches the gen
in tleman last up is convinced that all negocia
-3t tion will be ineffe&ual [Mr. Harper said he
;h bad no other knowledge than other gentle
n- men on this fubjeft] and that a declaration
?e of war mult take place ; with such impref
m Sons, he wished to keep back arms. For
d fiuce these sentiments jwere avowed on this
floor, how did he know but the executive
u- might concur in the opinion. [The fpeak
is er said it was not in order to allude to the
m- ; opinion of the executive.] He believed if
-'h these means ©f offence or defence were put
of in the hands of the executive, that, provi
de ded he concurred in opinion with these gen
j tlemen, they would be employed in bring,
it ; ing the country into a war, as they thin\
n- J the only means of prefcrving the honor and
nd j fafety ot the nation, lies in war. Know
»p iug this, and wifliing for peace, would it
ng not be insanity, to put arms into their kand3?
is, He believed it would, and he could not in
di- his confcienct do it
Mr. Otis was ready to declare his •pini
rift on, that in the present situation of this coun
th try, this hotrf: ought daily .to resolve itfelf
iate a committee of thr whole on the state
in- of the Union, whether they were b'kely to
tes adopt any partictilar resolution, or not
he Surrounded ai we are by danger, agitated
Me by alarm, infu'ited abroad, and divided at
u- home, the hcife ought constantly to (hew
to to the people :hat tha anxious cares With
m- which they are at this time o'ppreffed, reft
»f- also upon the minds of the members of that
As house, and thjt they are desirous of enqui
:nt ring with contaut solicitude whether they
icy could, or could not, do ativ thing to serve
rce their enwi-.trr. Vet, notwithftinding this
taenfeM, unprovided state «f the nation, he spent
wa* forty to find gentlemen studious toavoid way
.11 measures upon which the. peace, the li- -of it
berty and the happiuefs of the country de- P°»
A 5?
Fei With rftfpeft to the g*tW*fro« St
ginia. To those who reca]frfte£|he af&-
rjty with which he generally chofeto exprefi
lu. opinions ; to those who remember the a nu
temper which he difeovcred the last fcffion,
it would sot be a fbbj?a of furpnze that he pro „
(bovld have discharged for the firft time try, !
those phials >f wrath which he has been en- only
gaged in filling from that time, to the pre- P J
sent, in a bold, ungraceful, and in his opi
nion, difgraceful afferticn, that net only E ,
trentlenien ir. that house, but the Executive re f el
of .tie United States, were desirous of war. one
The attack was tefch* *¥ **l*' Jg
ge »fhc gentleman had proceeded to remark,
that he generally differed from him in cpint- forc
oil. Mr. O. '/aid that to proclaim, this . #l , ri
fa ft wrs to da hiia honour —and that in the but
fame proportion that his political sentiments rej«<
, approached, to those of that gentleman,
they .voaid approximate a vortex otprej'idi 6^
ces and errors, and recede from those which f
: he had been taught to consider molt nearly
• connected with the happiness of his coun- chsl
, try —and that ft they »
• might entertain for each other, he hoped had
they should continue to differ upon political ult
- topics. . . e( j
3 The gentleman had blamed him for lm- {
: wilting sentiments to Sim which he after- 0 f [
wnrdi acknowledged- They were, that gen- cou
f tlemen were anxious to find motives of de- wf
t lay againtt providing the sneani of proted- ere.
3 ing our commerce. This he had avowed, J™
e by faying he was in favour of defending the fM
c country by land, but not by sea. But, f ar
"said Mr. 0- we cxn defend ourfilnes, by sea ; [ e s s
.. and the beoflt of America -will defend thcmfelvi i hat
by fit, as well as by land ; and- when decla- be:
rations are made which are calculated to ®
n palsy the efforta of the people, thry ought (o '
i r to be repelled. And if that gentleman, or
,r some others, wete determined not to take t j,<
r t measures for the defence of our commerce, ne
, e he hoped there would be found a large ma- thi
, iority in that house who would do it. He F l '
would bimfelf foonsr lbfe hie right hand »
j than it (hould not be done ; indeed, if gen-
re tlemen should decide that commerce ftoultl r ar
, r not be protested, the country would not j n(
* n long be worth the pains ps defeuce ;it would So
re become difmited, and there would be an end ha
■J of its prosperity. _ j
ft If the gentleman from Virginia wished
j j him to declare whom he thought in favor
3 f of war, and whose measures led to it, he
f e would fay it was those who constantly im- b*
a, peached the Executive authority ; who ut- d<
•J. tered sentiments which had a tendency to w
0 f dispirit the people, and lead them to believe
they could not be defended, and that cam- w
r . merce was not worthy of proteftion. These
measures, he said, led to war—not to so- b;
T . reign war—but to civil war j a war of friend it
agaiafl friend, andflute againfljlate ! e<
8r Mr. O. thought it extremely improper, £
b e at this time, to introduce any thing relative *
he to the futur? operation of the two a&s of q
SJ- ' j.'Jvi Wi .iric ai
| c , would come under a fcparate coofideration. d
Jj. What was the obje<S of this allusion ? It
he was iutended to fticw th?t we had as much
< e . cause of complaint a«ainft one country, as
- f . another, ap.d that therefore we ought
ur to fit dowr. patiently under the outrages t>f f,
aj> all*; that we (hould tamely fuffcr ourselves b
:r . to be divided and parcelled out, and become 1
)e _ the humble-(laves rf a foreign power. Be- ai
fore this would be fuffered, he triifted the s:
£ d spirit of the people of Ahieriea which had v £
ed lieretofore been difpiayed would be called t ,
4is out in defence of their injured country. f {
■ic lu regard to what had fallen from the w
ijd gentleman Crom New-York (Mr. Livingfton) «
c h Mr. O. had a refpeft for his private charac
ter, and hoped he would fee the Jmpropri
-1- ety of changing his mind even admitting
in that one gentleman had said, the ci ifis had 0 |
ite arrived when it was necessary to submit or tl
r a go to wnr, this opinion could be no reason i»
»g for voting against his former opinion. In- P 1
to deed, he believed, his friend from South l |
rd Carolina was misrepresented. He'underftood | f
ir, the fentimerit to be that which every Amc- ei
be "rican ought to repeat, ««that when the cri- tf
:y Cs arrived rather than facrifice the Liberty gi
a and Independence of this country, we ought 't
n- to go to war." He toped, 'therefore, the
a- house would go into a committee of the
le whole without delay.
e- Mr. Giles said, the gentleman last up g ;
an had said some things in relation to him, tf
?f. which he found it necessary t6 notiee, and ei
or for which he did expeft he would have been a '
lis called to order. . He had charged hfm with ei
ve using df grateful exprcjfmns. This was a
k- charge which neither that gentleman nor a- w
Ke ny other dare make in any other place, [yf c <
if loud call ft tnler.]
ut Ths S peakir declared it in *ain that he I di
rir endeavoured to confine gentlemen to order. 31
n- Almost every member who had spoken had
g. transgressed in this refpeft.
lk Mr. Dana observed, that the gentleman J,
id from Virginia had cbjeftedto go into a com- tl
it- mittee of the whole, because the two afts al
it of the Britilh Parliament were not before ' c
s? that committee, and referred to what had
in taken place in another committee. [The
Speaker observed, that every thing which \
»- bad been said in relation to these a£ls,-with
n- refpeft to the opinion of another committee, j e
:lf was out of order.] Mr. D. added i!?at he ei
te had adls publilhed Weforc be canaa h
to to Congrefc thtf session, and he thought it ' r
extraordinary that apy gentleman should "
-d wait for the opinion of a committee upon a r
at fubjeft before he formed his own. Mr. D. i;
w fa'd. the queflion was not, whether the' y
:h ho t ufe would adopt any of the resolutions, ii
:ft but whether they would agree to discuss ''
at them. 1:
11- ' Mr. Kittera said, the houfehad already 1
ey spent half the day in debating whether thry 'J
ve would go into a cojnmittee of the whole, a
lis and he hoped farther time wea'i,d net be i<
spent nn tbi. {ubjefl. Ho tlu ugb* tkt heft
way ot war.was u b e pre,.^
For it. ..le fished, therefore, t* eater n
pou lhe bufinef*, and proaecd witk it. - * &
d] ir be,,ev,: tin mu( * tim«
could he scent Hj»n-«^ q q«fr, on , if i t WSI Ao *
roleadtow*r itfeiUrA l"K c V arie ly ot r,L„
jefH whjch, ha,l lice*referred to thi, commit,
tee of the «h..lc, had giren « T if e tn
a number of observations on theft- different sub"
je£U. The ehairmanef the committee for tL.
protraon of commerce and defence »fth tfO L
try, had declared, that out of thefe-febied* he
only meant to call up what related to the te' w *
jing the frigates, to the eftaMiftimert of a fa,'"
darv.ani tojihe ptarchafe of a number of tclTc)!
in aid at the frigates.
Exclusively oi these, there were other fubitfl,
referred tn thf fame comtnittee of the while
nae of them rclates-to our fortifieaiions, anotil
tr t« the eflabliUiuunt of a commiflionp,- 0 i
marine, and another,to the arming »f rn?r _
clliaU' vefTets. He tonfidtred lb me o[ thtfe
fubjedU as with our relation tu i n C
foreign nJt on, so far at it relates to any
which may hare taken place finctthe lift fefli,,.
but with refpeft to any proposition whiih
reieiSed it tbe last feffioo, cY any new propoj.
lion which may have been produced 011 tj, e
ground of a change of our situation, k« was n*
ready at prefetrt to aft upon it. And it wo
be that not only tbe arming of rap.
chant#' vtftels, but tbe propofiti™ for the put"
chafing of reflels, was rejetfed at the last fefß,«
Mr. O. agreed that a change ofour Ctuatii,,' 1,
had in a certain degree, taken place finee tVj
laft.feflion i he agreed this change was of i m .
portarice ; it confiiied in the intelligence receir.
Ed from our envoys extraordinary that they Kit
sot been officially receired by the goiernment
of France, though they h«(J remained in that
country about three months. The queftioa
was, whetbe.r that intimation in itfelf is fuflU
cient to induce coKgreft to adopt new mei
fares, or to take up such as were rejected at the
last feflion. To him there was not fufficient
reafou for this porpo r e ; hecauf« h« expend
farther information upon this fubjtfl j and un.
less the bouse kneu , not only that our wmifttr,
hid not been reeeivtd, but wliy they hid not
. been received,and whether it was from the want
, of powers, or any ejrcumftances not kno*nto
u >, it was difficult to fay what meafares eujht
to ke taken.
Another reason was, though our tnjSiftai
themfclves inform the executive that they hut
> net been received, nor have any hopes of it, or
- thiit the et their nsiflion will be acton.
» plifbed, they still refrain in Vatis ; and f» W 1
j as they remain there, 2tow«ver " feeble their
hope, they have some hope of being received,n
. they would leave the place,as itmuft be unpia
" fant to them to faci ifice their fceliijgsby reraam.
t ing thsre a»y longer'than the occation rcqjires.
I So long as we had not information that they
1 had left the country, he did not thiak any nor
measures ought te be gone into, «r meafurn
j which, in their tendency, must lead to war.—
When he said this, he did not mean to fay any
' thing againflt taking meafureo of felf-defenct,
e We ought to take every measure of this kind j |
i- but, unfortunatelj, however easy this was to be
dene on land, it could net be carried to fta,
0 without danger of war. Such is the naturt of
c ! felf-defence at sea, that if it be carried eit of
} our own jurifdi<slioa, it is uatimatily tonaefltd
with offenlive operatioas.
e Thus with refpefl to armingef mcrtkanttncn,
by putting arms into the hands of iadividutli,
iJ it might lead to war, whilil they wereintesii
ed only for felf-defence against attacks. In
r deed, fuels is the law of nations with rel'peflte
fearckiag of refTels, that it is difficult todiftin
r guilb between lawful and unlawful fearc'tci.—
8 Other i-tntlcmee whokelje.veiiuoffible toroiri
.j . i■* J i.ajiga, anu wno
ic at tea, net ealy wifk the measure now to be i.
n. dotted, but they did not wilh it at a former
It session. The fame reason, however, which W
li the honfets rejedl thismeaf»r«li«ytof»re wo»14
JS lead them to oppose taking it up at thi) time.
It remaiaed to be conftdered whether it wooM
r P ro P er 10 F® '"to a committee on those mtv
" fures which were agreed to at the iaft frffien ;
rs but .which now required further appropriations.
16 There were two such measures, via. the frigate*
.. and fortifications. With refptft to the foit.fi
1C eatioas, he was always willing to appropriate 11
, much as was neceflary for this objefl,
ference ev«r took place on this ftibjeifl, except as
!Cl to amount appropriated. He flinuld, there
fort, have no objection to this mLfure ; kul it
le was net neceflary to begone inte at preltnt; it
1 j would do to be considered any time during thi*
c _ session, a« there remains a balaace of 90,00*
,j_ dollars unexpended of tbe last appropriation.
The only taeafure which seems necefliryts
be g-ire inte at present is the frigates. Thi
'd otjeifl;«n made to this measure had been, that
3r the executive might employ the frigates in ii
m improper maaner. This apprehenfi*u he fup
n. posed to be grounded upon the firft feflioa or
the aist of last fefiion, whieh gives the preMeot
, the right of employing them, without rfftriftios.
' If it was their opiaios that the preCdent wsuid
employ the frigates in * manner dingeroui te
1- the peace of the country, it would be « good tr
y guiucl.t againlt appropriating the money ;an 4
1 t it would be within the recolleflien of members,
that the sense of the house' was twice taken i*
favour of reftriifliag the use ot the frigates; but,
e for fear of losing the bill, this point wisgi«»
up. Though, however, he was at that timca
'P gainfl the president's having a discretion to sle
a, the frigates as he pleased, he was not nowafri i
id of their being employed improperly. He hiJ
;n always sppofed tbe building of the frigates in
.jj every stage, because he thought the expenflt«-
tending them, would be greater than tbe adrH*
a tage to be derived from them ; but he did not
a " wilh now to oppose the motion for gding intoa
d committee on thia fubje<a.
With refpedl to the question of W, Mr. 0.
it did itot believe any gentleman could with (or it
r _ as an abftradl good. He believed every one
j thought it an evil ; but he believed there «" re
gentlemen in the house who would be willing t»
go to war, for caofes whi:h others did not think
in jaflifiable. He did not know, indeed, but w"'"
1- they eame to go into the fubjtdl that they
ts all ?gree ; but he believed this was the diltmu
re ion to be drawn betwixt the different opißi"*'
j as tiiflerent geatfjmen.
|e Two ether reasons might perhaps be alledg
, why the house Ihould not go into committee on
' this fubje£l ; the one wk, because the t- >-
had paftponed for an enquiry into tbe u
e> je<9 of former expcncea, and the ctim* I '-'
le enquiry have not reported, for his own F '■
J8 he believed tbcre had b«en much e * tr f" 3 %'
J t in the expeaditar* ; but as no report * *
1 j njade, and as it could not be ioo n ' x P e .' .
believed those gentlemen who , t4 , t k "
a fr.gatss equipped had better pioceen ' n 1 c
\ r.n?f 3 without this report. The etner reaf.»
le was, that he thought the house had net ■ .
13, information relive to the pay and fu 1 c c -
fs tbe navy. When the account «>»
laid before the house, the, ration* ' ere^ c ,'
, lo cents, they v/ere now charged :» ceo. ,
it was well knowii that there had beeoo .
•7 vu;'.e m the price of P rovißo«< »
additicn. And thdugh he had
be {nil in Y'% atre.nurs toi- e en' the•f-jafes, Ante r'-w wefe mt;R- P n im.
levite, he wiii to <?a\m thee*
pree is much as he could with propriety do it.
tt hjd therefore no objecliou to pr, into 1 enm
uittee on the refolotion Cor completinj and e
qlipping shir frigates, though he /liould at pr»-
frnt be »pp»fe'l to 3o f„ with reflect to that of
/>r«viding fee the pay «f the crew, a? he wlfhert'
for fu ther information on th.e fsbjefl, and *1
there was vet 90,000 dollars of the lorraefap.
pro»jriatior unexpended.
Mr. Sswall said, when he ftrft proposed ta
gt into a committee ofthe whole on thi ftite of
,t»e union, he fugjefted that his prir.cipil objrA
wat to provide for the completing and equip
ping the frijates,and he thonght it was fuflicient,
acccrrfing to thertiles of the house, to mention 1
one objefl, a* a rtafun for going; into a eomn.it- j
teeoo the Rate of the union, lit thought this
debate, had, therefore, been of 4 very »nufujJ
oiwm
Mr. Nicholas had no •bjeAion to g» into
■ committee of the whole, to take up the fub
jeA of tbe frigstes. His objeflion wa» to the
going into other measures which bad been fug
gefted by the chairman when he maole his mo
tion ; fiich as pwrehafing vefielt, Ac.
The question for going into a committee of
the w hole was put and carried, there bein;» 64
■ votes for it, when the refolutio»» foreorap'.etiajt,
equipping and manning the frigates, and that
for the pay ef the crews, &c. wsre agreed to, as
stated in yeAerday's paper.
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, March 16.
ExiretS of a letter from Parts, dated January
*s> I "]9& - Rettiurd via Sourdtnutt.
« On the evening of the 3d inft. Talley.
wnd a splendid ball to
Gen. Buonaparte—There were upwards of
4®o persons present. Mr. Gerry and his '
Secretary, Mr. Skipwith, Mr. Codman and
Mr. MidJleton, were the only American*
invited. Mr. Gerry at firft declined the in
vitation, as his brother Commiflioners were
not invited ; however, from political mo
tives he was afterwards induced to go. All
the members of the Directory were invited,
and attended, except Merlin and Rewbell."
Capt. Weft, from Bourdeaox, relates that
the commandant of Bourdeaux informed him' 1
there were TWO PIRATES in the BAY 1
of BISCAY, under colours bearing a harp. (
They are lugger rigged, and have taken 1
feveial vcffels, but it was not understood 1
they had committed any murderj. A sri- 1
gate was preparing at Rochfort to g® in <
of them. i
]
BALTIMORE, March !$. s
We were not altogether accurate in oar t
article yesterday, refpe&ing our ministers at ' r
ParTss It is Mr. Gerry who remain*, and \ c
Messrs. Pinckney and Mardiall who return, t
Mr. Gerry, although not foimally acknow.
ledged as minister, is well received at all the
ministerial elub*. (
Intcrijiinx Mifcellemioui artitle), translated t
, from the latejt Frtmh papers. e
An article from Genera, of the »d Jau- '
-uary, mention*, that from the scarcity of c
provisions, the general distress of the inhab- v
ttants and rlwii' <ji.uti»n m Uil I*n.in.(l cailK *
"the government will be forced to renounce
it* independence, and throw itfelf into the
arm* of Fraiice.
The Pacha of Oglee, under date of Augf- v '
burg, January 7, i* stated to be at the head tl
of 100,000 men in rebellion agaiuft the ' a
Ottoman He had laid siege
against Sifiowe, aad another division of hi*
army was within 4 leagues of Belgrade, ol
which was in a perilous Gtuation. The
Greek and Arnsinian merchant* had fled in- 01
to Hungary for fafety. The Pacha promis
e* liberty and equality to those diftrift* that
Join hi* ilandard. A Vienna artisle of Ja
nuary -I, fays, that Belgrade wa* forced to tl
submit to the rebels by capitulation. The g 1
E*peror in consequence of the trouble* dai
ly inereafing in Turkey, bad sent 12,000
men. to the frontier* ofyValachia and Ser- cr
Via, to reinforce the troops already there. ca
An infurreftiort ha* taken in Corfi- P l
pa, but an important viftory had beea ob
tained over the rebel*. ' in
A Pan's paper of January 19, fays, that n*
Joseph Buonaparte (ambafTador at Rome)
and family, had left Florence the |th Jan. ta
on their return to Paris—that the Cisalpine
army was in full march thither—and tbat u '
the divifien of general Serrkrier was follow- ift
ing tbeni. ty
th
Tr inflated for the Federal Gazette, of
From Paris and Bourdeaux ™'
by the Thercfa, captain Boyle. dil
VIENNA, December 3 t.
The garrison of this city is t« be aug
mented to thfc number of 24,009 men. thi
tu l
HAMBURG, January 1. aft
They write from Berlin, of December in
26. That the celfion of Mentz and Ehreu- to
breitftein, which happened a few day* be- del
fore, had caused great surprise there. We Fr
expe<3ed that the left of the Rhine would
be ceded to France, but we hoped tbat the pla
ceflion of fortreffe* would have been negoci- thi
ated at Raftadt and not noncludcd at in
'Cdmpo Formio. This ciraumftance, mor.e W
tbaa>,ever, has eaufed apprehensions in our arr
wabincti of the view* of Austria, upon Ba- grt
varia. While they profefs to maintain the he
integrity of the empire, they all ackuow- the
kdge the necessity of adopting the principle me
»f feculariaation, to indemnify the prince* jo <
on this fide of the Rhine, for the loss of fait
the;r poffeffisns beyond that river ; but they he 1
protell that the secularization is not adopted van
to favor the atnbitio>!J projects of the great pea
powers ; and we are assured thjt tbe nsimfr rini
ters cf Pruftia at Vienna and Raftadt, ha/c ter
orders to condu£t themftlves on thof? prin- ; d' j
ciples. The great changes that are like to alit
tike place in Germany? are publicklf fpo- is ai
ken of hire, and particularly the eell>en of thai
iiancjrer to Pruflia, provided the king tin:;
deei not oppefe the views of Auilria. The peo
prince ps Reufs has communicated to the this
mini iter of Pruflii thatreaty of Cftrp»-lor. ifee
but net i« secret arfcsJe*."
. 1 >
•sis. BKRLfN, J lEuary 5.
du'it • iT* kin ? ka " fofteartitlK rigoroftbe h,
cim- ® r 4 2 reat number cf Pc-!ilh gentle
tntl e- mcn 111 South Pruflia. Impatient of tb
t pre- y°te which the fate of battle imposed upoi
i»t of, thtm, they were imprisoned iu the fortref
r-.lhH fe*: the king has freely pardoned nianyo
ind a, them, and fh»rtcntd the term of imprison
tfl P" ant of the reft. - F
fed ta
ate o: R.AS FADT,- January 6.
The bare n Albinf, the dire&oral min.'ftei
quip- 11. Meat*, informed the deputation of the
n.uL' the lafl fitting, of the military
nir.it j a P lt " l,tlon of Mentz, concluded »t Wifba
t this „* t!le 28tk December, between citixe®
ittfual ge»eraj in chief of the French ar» v
and the eoloncl* Breitenbach and Jafter,
into eharged with the p»wtr* of general de Ruet
sub- commander of the treops of Menu. Also
' e that they had figaed on the 29th, a civil
ma- C, I P -' t L U ~: tbe n,oft rcmar kahle article *f
which is, That the inhabitant! of the city
re of and .territory of Mentx, absent at well as
g #4 present, (hall be proteAed and maintained
tiw, '7 their pofieflion, their property and the
that nghi 5 depending thereon.
°* 11 ' . 1"f deputation of the empiae continues
hut does not appear to beoecu
pied on matters of great importance. Tbe
day before yesterday the duke of Dru*
Pents, and the hereditary prince «f Baden,
arrived here ; and after having dined with
uary c " Cost*, (Pruttan miniftcr) return.
J edto Carlfruhe.
W- MENTzj~Ja nuary S.
<?nd The tree of liberty wa* planted here vef
» of terday, under a discharge oT the artillery of
? j 'he place* The city will ht illuminated this
and this evening, as a teftimohy of joy at the
:an« entrance of the French. This event appears
: in- to eaufe in this place, um'Verfal joy. Those
"ere who have different sentiments endeavor to
m«- d.fguife them ; the wife reiign them, 'the
All timid conceal them.
ted, • j
»•" _ . BASLE, January 9. •. |
Citizen Mengaud has received an arrette i
hat from directory of France,' da
tum" ted 6th inft. ordering him officially t0c0...
m.nicate it without delay, to the regency
irp. of the canton of Bern, to know the truth
j r *'P eft, "£ ,he ord « r for the marching .f
>od their troops against the French ; and whet
in- ther they had arrested the deputies of th.fe
>in communes that had refufed to take arms
again ft the French republic, and that citizen
Mengaud was diredted to require a prompt
and catagorical answer to the notehe ftould
>ar transmit on that fubjeft. that the answer
1 at • may be given to the diredory by the return
ma of the extraordinary courier that brouzht
rn. the decree. 6
lW»
lll '. _ January 11.
Citizen Mengaud, after receivingorder* from
the dire&ory, left this place forArrau, near
*d the diet, where he is to maintain the inter
ests of the grand nation. The symbol of
i*. l'berty, as well as the tricolored flag, ispla
oF befdre the house which he occupies,
ib- which is not equally agreeable to *ll those
IT? wtrar fw it. -'
h« LONDOnTJan. t«.
The news from Ireland continue to be
rf. very afflifting. A message has been sent te
ad the lord lieutenant by the duke of Port
he land.
let er from IDtihiin of the 6th January j
lis fays, that within a fortiight past, the want
[ e> of labor has forced 117 blacklmiths, 80
(hoemakers and a great number of other
n- mechanics to embark for America.
if-
at PARIS, Jan. 19.
a, Kleber commands one of the divifians of
to the army of England, Bernadotte having
ie gone amballador to Vienna.
([. Ihe last advices from Peterftjurg mention
>o the difpleafnre oceafioned there by the fe
r- crecy of tbecourt of Vienna, in communi
cating the treaty of Campo Formio, as ,
[j. published in the public papers, without the 1
j- secret articles ; and that the former court, 1
in consequence, began 1 to lean more ani (
s t more towards Pruffii.
The minister of Sweden at Berlin, has f
n. taken teps to engage the king to interest j «
i e in favor of M. de Ferfen, that he may be c
it ultimately received at Haftadt, being a rain- r ,
r. ifter fiom acourtwhich guaranteed the trek-
IT of Westphalia. He was aofwered that t
they would willingly comply with tbe desire *
of the court of Sweden, but they were 1
d much afraid that M. Ferfen was a perfen t:
disagreeable to the directory. f|
ROUEN, January i. o
We can now announce the certainty of 0
the arrest of cheva'ticr d'Aranjo, the Por- v
tuguefe ambador, who remained at Paris §
after the order for his departure, given him c
r in confequentejof his court having refufed t<
1- to ratify the t»eaty which had been conclu- w
- ded between its plenipotentiary and the
e French republic.
i Aranjo was sent to the temple, and seals
e placed upon his papers. It appears that
• this ambafTador, who was formerly viewed
t in a favorable light, has been the dupe of
e Wifcovich, a well known intriguer, now in ,|,
r arrest. This Wifcovich always used to pay Ti
■ great court to foreign envoys, from whom
; he drew large funis of money, by making
them believe, that he could warp certain ,h,
s members of the government. M. d'Aran- tn
e jo deceived and abused by this fellow, it is
( said wrote home, that with a million more tlt
r he could obtain from certain directors, ad- c it
I vantageoug conditions for the treaty of
peace with Portugal. The,affair of M. Qui- I,l '
- rini is fomewliat similar, except that the let
: ter does not merit as much indulgence as M» in
■ Id' Aranjo,to whose principples and mor- a S<
1 ality we cannot but dojuftice. However, it "*
is an unhappy circumftancc it :s discovered >, a ,
r that M. Wifeovich, who was extremely in- on
timzte with several of the htl
people, did not confine himfeif to matters of
this kind only, but was also concerned in
lie royalist coufpiracies. He is ftrongiy fuf- j ;, y
pcCUi to he as agen- ®f Pitt. , ck
-1
S Oa setfe,
the *' ■» ii. ' -.. r nr-rr.
PHILADELP HI A,
£ «ATURBAY EVENING, March i 7.
"'itintei
Extra ft of a letter fr*m Bourdfcux, dated
tter ' . J""" 1 '? *5-
t jj e : " Inclosed is a law just pajed—l leave
T au to j'"U r " its efFecls—the preamble gives
b a - roornto htl-'eve it is meantpnucipally jgainft
, f0 *' le Anttvicans, and is an invtiiivr and *23
inv jsga'nftthem. ManythinktbeDaiie*,
er, PrufiLtns are engayed to consent
idt J* mea^ure on certain conditions, and
lfo Its . y operate agiiaft the A
t-j mericans "
*y Extrat of m litter from Li/ion, Jan.?.
„ " Off coai " by . F,- C nch
ed P r ' vatccr * > within thele two dzv«, twa 20
jj e \ g ßn (liips and five brigs have been captured
and brought in by Lai d St Vincents squad-
ron.
:u- 1! F'tker, brigantine, engaged
a Trench ftiip three hours and a half, taok
u< and brought her in. The King Fisher c*r
n ries uxteen 9 pnunders and had one man
t j| wouaded. i'he French (hip carried twenty
■ D . 11 P°u»ders a , r j 8 cohnras—feveral killed
and wouaded."
E»tr,a ,f a letter from B,p N ,dated March 8.
;f _ LOSSES,
0 f r - Taylor's Insurance Ofßce in Boßou
i,» i — trom 11 January, 17 $,6, to tft of Ja
, j nuary 1798.
r.: sr,t)5 r,t )' h 36,638
fe j »91.342
to I Spamfh, 6jJOO
Je 1
Dollar* 247»9<>5
Infuranee is made at Mr. Brooks's office
te fV e reateraiT)6 »nt than at this ; the
a- r" 1 fu PP ofc brar £he f ame proportions.
„ rhf abov t are exelufive of those
where no lafuranee (itmirft be considerable)
I had been made.
:a
°J tlett-r froaxCape|Nieh.l* Mole, dated
' »7th February, I^9B.
le " The w'lole of the Britift porttia thia iflaaj, is I
„ i« jreat cm.fuGon, owing to the bripanda attaeltmr i
n .'i" ' lnc f ,n 'lJ erem ' r :theforsnertheyn«arl»car- j
riad—they have got poffeflion o/the watering pUce !
abnul: 3 iniiu from the town—A number of "vcfleU I
a have failed from thia to brinj away the inhabitanu I
•j aa they aiean to evacuate it.
n " Thetroops will be sent dowa to Jeremie, which !
it Twi 10 k " P P offcffio " long a.
ponibla; but from present appearance., I do Dot I
conceive they wili hold it $ naoath. loader." j
BanaTUENT ./Stati, litl M*r4, j 79 |. I
n M*. fsnmo, /y
r I onclofs f#r publication copies of a letter I
.. rre ™ t o hr Mmifter of the Uaited State, in London I
to the Secretary of State, and of th. letter thereia |
referred to, relative t. attempt,, which are c.n- I
l- tempiated, to latr.Huce falfe d.llara into circula- I
1. tion in the United
I ~ TOar rtt. fervt.
m,- , J ACOB """ItSTfEK, f
the/ Cti. if lit Dtf. cf Suit. |
" Dtcater 18, 1708.
e " Dear Sir, ' 7 j
9 •" a'° °, rC ' ei , that l^e Public may be arotefled a- I
falnft the fraud, about to be praihf.d upoa I
them, 1 take th. liberty to (ej you annej" :
the copy of a letter that I have lately received .
r " r Colqi-hoNn, an enlightened and I
t magi (Irate of thi.city. Üball d,f p „ch eo.f.to i
5 the principal ports of our country, and hope that I
tbey may arrive in feafen to put the CuUoaa-boufe I
•Ificer., and others, upon their guard.
With p«rfea refpeiSl, ° J
I have the hodor to be, I '
I)a»r Sir, I
r Your obedient and faithful fcrvant,
T . . f RUPUS KINS. j
J he Seert'tary of State, &c. &c. *c."
1 (COPY.) V I
Charlct Square, 14 Detecsltr, r 7O 7, I
" Sir - £
" Having roafon to f lncf tJle c i rcu ! a . j
tionof dollars has been flopped, thatfomeof the I 0
»ifcre;.nts, both her; and at Birmingham, who I S
were concerned extenfivcly in the coinage of falfe 1
_ dollars, have found means to fend Quantities to A- 1
merica, for the pu.-poie of perpetuating the fame I T
fpccies of villainy, which has been but too success I E
fuliy pra&ifed in this country,—l feel it to be my I p
duty a. a magiirate, to apprize yos o( this clr J
cumftancr, that if yoa concaive it peccdary, you I
may put the Execetiv. Government of the Unitixl I
States upon its againll thele nefarioui designs I Y
to cheat asd defraud the innocent and unwary, and I
to furnilb the atcans of dctaAing the njfariou. I
agents who may b. .ngaged in this traffic, which I
1 fafpefl* will be piincipally confined to th« lar£e I
trading towns. I
" Tht dollars which are, or may be, fabricated I
for th:, particular purpose, will be witio.J the I
Tower, or King', mark, or Head They are made j
of ct pper, and jeu.raily covered with a thin plate I M
ol fiiver, and the and imitation is I
Very perse&. I'hey are generally diftovered by Ilh
ringing one against another, or by boriag withany I
scarp pointtd inltrun ent, which,lad operation dil- j c v
cover? tha copper at'once. If you have any desire |
to traafmit a specimen of this falle coins—, I will | VV:
with pleasure fend you o»e. * I th
I have the h.nor to be, with refpsA and esteem I so
B,r - ' 1
Your mod obedt. and most faithful humble Servt. j
• R. CGLQUHOtJN. IJ"
His Excellency Rufu. King, Esq. Jcc fcc." j Ctl
We are happy to le.ro that a fubfcriptiin is open. ! P'
at ihe Coffec-Houfe for the relief and benefit of j of
the paffenge*. ref.ued from death, when the ibip ] ~.1
Fame foundered- I 1
There .retventy p.flengtr.chiefly mechanics, ar
lifts and their families, who by thi. un'ortun.re event
h«»e lofl all with which they could have lupported
ihemfelvrs in a(1 range country until tbey touid get
employment. 5
Ihe fitn.tion of these unfortunate people i. truly cc
d fucilinj, and it is fince-ely hoped will aurafl the
aitenuon of the different benevolent societies of this f-,
city, and of the humaoeand charitable injtenerjl,
I licv speak highly of Ihe humane aad kind treat
ment ihey received f-omeaptsin Macey, theif deliver- rir
er, whilst on board hit veffcl
Among the p.flenircrs of the Fame who were b'o't r i
in here by captain Marey, is. lad of >4 or 15 year, ol -P' :
age, who ha. loft property wotth 1500 pound ller- °»
bot iolu'fd.
And a Quaker l.dy of about 70, who on bein e Z A,
haoaeJ or» Cbcfnut-Ortct wharf, threw hafrif
on frxmni and returned thanki to Providence for
her happy prefeivation.
Se
A* elegant t racing, *• by t6 i»ehes, e*;o*. 1
fed by Savage, from an ori« - a! pji;—„ 0l
by himf.lf, i»Uiltpublißied. The Priat r.cief „ts 'I c ,
Oef:c«,il MaS P£tyj» and li.ii.a4y IHr » i,...i;»: 1
Jikcrcfe.) Cttr guttable Ui'fKdi!ieaa »hn of
'he FCffrn! City. A perfpeAiv. view of tlrcrivt,"
• o owmac aid of Mount Vsrnon, fo)ni» n agree
able a •*d apjTßi.riaie tmbrlliilin .y; in rhe pi<3i:re.
he whole i. x. cu td in a (lyle evincive of tile
iapi.l proyvf, of »u elegant ar.t, which iM<l.ithcr
. to Wn ia a very rucle liar. in this country.
! 7~ If i« thu those villains who are for
tunate enough id cheat the jplluws, ami thus if.
(ape th-. ju'i puniftment of their crime-- in theo'd
tied wor ' d - by fiyin* to the new, inft-.-ad of uewig
wrought upon to penitence and an iaoSruftvc ,
"•urfe o' life, leeouie, and ever after c«viiisnc,
ave the mofl rcftacSory and incorrigible • 'iflnrScrt of j
v«« the peMic - '
nft «aei,iies to ail f- verarae ' whaeier, end plainly |.
, prore that jnOtcvha* fiot hid iti <c I
A rrprokate of thi»ol.f. i» at prefer' in the em- I
' ploy of an infamous printer, ak ! through the chaa- j
ft rial of hii impure and fcaa<!alou. Galea*, it fol
tld lowing lirt European occupation, that of
i* thefouleft language, every perfoo of honor in
public hie, efpecialtv th fe whom the people of t
th.i country have ii*iriguiflied by the higliefi tefti-
monies of their eocfidcace. t
, / I
c '» Callender, fitice he hat taken the fuperintcn- t
SO daoce of the Aurora, hat •franvfirmed it into an }
cfi ad*ertifer of his vi!e and aboisinoble trash, which
he call. the Kiflwy of the United State*. ,
, From f area ft tie's Gazelle. c
™ THIS 18 TO CERTIFY, that Levi v
1 Hollinjrfir.'Orth never did prcvioui to the t
' r * ele&iau, endeavour to intisaidate me !• vote 1
for Benjamin R. Morgan, bjr threatening to 1
turn me out of bis house, or by threatiof *
any kind, that the conversation which took
place between Inm and me, was after the P
j poll wai clofcd j that Ido not think he de
serves the epithet «f an overbearing, tin- ""
principled landlord, hiving lived years
ia his house, atkl having always experien
ced condud from him, that was kind and
generous.
ANDREW EURKHARD. j
Philadelphia. March io, 1798, t-
Mr. Backs, i'l
That a publication ir. your of this
, e n>«r»mg, without fignatucc, contains one
ie amcn S l^e numerous lies that have difgra- c<
6 ced its fcrets, and you as iu editor, the 4)
"e P rece^'n g certificate evinces so o'ovioufly 111
v as t» require no comment. TRUTH. fu
J A copy <sf the above certificate, and the n<
J observation signed truth, were left at Mr.
;d J ® ae .^' s on Saturday, with a request that
I h« would publifii them, and that he would
is I inform tlie name of the person who he pofi- —■
C J tively asserts, voted contrary to hit opinion,
[' I left he Ihould be deprived of the means of \
j* support.
s, I ike writer of this called again on Mr. .1
I Bache to-day, to learn tht venal voterV <ii
b j name, tliis he could not give, and ia the r "
I conversation which ensued, his mean, eon-
I terrptibleequivocation left no room to doubt C J
j of his being the author of the lie. Y,
I Sucb are the means by which this base r*
I editor endeaveurs to support bis party, fuck '•
r I * x . c l ' l ® a ®" tr '«ons by which he has rendered
° j himfelf the oiacleof the Jacobins, and bj
" j w bi*k he bas become an objeft of the de
. I teftation at every unprejudiced mind. cd
\ AN AMERICAN. T«
I Philadelphia. Marck if, 1798. +j,
PRICE UT" STOCKS.
j , Philadelphia, Martb "j, J 798, fcs
I In Per Cent. if,A.) V
- I Three ptr C«r.t. ( IQ A «5
» I Deferred 6 per Cent. - j ,/•„
| | BANK United State*, ar par cent.
I I'ennfylvailia, 83 per cent.
I North America, 50 per 6*nt. 1
1 j lafuranceCo. Pennsylvania, jo
I N. A. scares per cent.
\g AZ E E Lis 7. m ]
V . ■ a
j Baltimore, March 15, ~~
I 9 f American vcjdt left at Bordeaux, eo
I l^r of February, by cetpt. Boyle.
J Ship Pomona, of Alexandria, captain Wa
ten, to fail in 15 days.
I Ship Viftoria, of New-Y*rk, captain Fau-
J Ship Penelope, of Charleston, capt. Flag.
Brig Nancy, Le Bosquet, to fail in two s
J days for George-town. ■
j Brig Speedwell, of Salem, capt. Brown. SUil
J Brig ,of Salem, captain Brad/haw.
j Brig ,of Philadelphia, captain .
I In lat. 2j, N. long'. 65, W. spoke the
I (kip Henrietta, of Philadelphia, frorf. New
J Ydrk to the Spanilh Maine, out 11 days.
J Came into the capes witk the Thetis sri- m
J gate.
LONDON, Jamary 14.
Yesterday Was launched from Perrys dork At 1
lat Blaekvvall, the Lord Dunean east ladia- Cut
I aa.i n, and was brought to her moorings at a F!oo
I Ihort diflance. Oah,
I About half an hour afterwards was laun- sh<x
J ched from the fame yard, the Kent, man of AlCo
war »f 84 guns: the Kent taking nearly
I the fame course as the Lord Duncan, ran Al
j foul of the Lord Duncan with her stern s h
gallery against the head of the Lord Duncan 1m "
and did great damage t« both, so much so, °'
tf> " * h 7 ,^ uft b,th bt P ut "to dock again.
I Ihe following Cla.ufes, being part of a
plan introduced by Ludot, on the fukjea
of personal arrest, were adopted in the coun
cil of Five Hundred on the 2dinft. Persons
shall not be liable to arrest in eiviKui'ts,
I. Before fun rife, and after fun set.
. 2. On the days of decade. m
-3. On the days appointed', by law for the
celebration of republican Fetes. F ort
4. During the time of the primary As- rr,
lcmb.ics. q
5. No ele&or shall be- liable to arrest du- .7 ]
ring the holding of the Ele&oral afTemhlies. 2 c ]
6. Nor any man, at any time, in any <.
place of public worfcip, within the precincls
ot the Legislative body, of the executive p
Du-eaory, the tribunal, or of any public
admmiftration whatever.
for sale, " V: <,r
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Including Ix>ng Primer, about 400 weight, in 77"
good conditio, and would answer the tarpafe of Hv
a country Printer as well a« new * /j
KS9*hcof Pm•*
" 1 1 ihmoiomiti *—
rivcij — —•* -a—*.
r*- new-ti-ieatrf.
a ure.
r-tfc TH , S HVENINO,- March i/,
Wiil he pr»Mfd a C-m <ly, called,
THE RAGE.
r°r- ' • U'Kic'i will kc added. ('or tbr hi) lime thie f«af«rti)
Oscar and Malvina.
cinjr
if»*c , ",* *0 w iVfondav, The TV ay to jrt jyfw
sup, ried:—-with entertainment*.
"* I - tlf Mr.. MERRTt night will bt •«
| Wcd »«»<
Mr. Franci3,
«" SUEJCRIPT/ON 8.-ILL,
sal- I ' '" c *'»» SetCjn, wili Le or. 1 uchiiy r.c
"f' I\iTR- FRANCIS refpeflfulljr ir.farm* f
LYI Swbfuibcri, that the last lubfcriptiun E- i
•* tor this lea Con, will he on TUESDAY the t,
us March—Ljdiej tKkei# to be had by apnlv
to the SjiWt-ib--... er Mr. Francis, >.«. 70,
No:tk Hifli»Ji f), <t. Noi.fubfcriber* tickets
an' rJT '■ F.tru. •, or at the Afiemkly
£fc . A^-* W « «f tl-c Seiefl Sulifcrin.
tl» n Batik, ! . ,c„ K ;rr. "Hr txtrtL BjIJ ;•
the S-bfcr.h,,. , , u
tiofe the feafon—\.. r the .. nfc „ t
tvi will be particular in tbelaft Ball as the Sul.-lc
he tion, in order t» make such regulations r
)te extra Bill s*th?y may deem r ar.t i--
w ceflary, to include every convenience and
, gane* which they may »ifii to adept. Tuttiou
as ul'ual. '
> k N. B. Due notice will be given as the last
lie Prafl;C*g Ball. »
ft- March 17. 3 I
( o be~i>o]d at Auftion,
_ On Thutfday, S2d March, at 7 o'clock b
the Evenmg, at the Mertkant'l Coffev
House Second fireet.
fa bKIt.K HOIME, :o S et! er wi'lj «he Lot
* xT nfrCt .° '» th e city of Burling
t..n, N.w.Jerfey. Tke ho U se J, s , three room,
three the ft.rv.
JocJuubeti tisng it a >rame building lha
Lot kaa a front ef 71 fVrt «,» Piarl.flrtet, and.
Ie ! " n ,he rivei " Delaware. Th»
a . ' n?th of ' h * L "f '» 3{o feet—Th« how fa
>" AnT!? ,n n' 1 Vf [ y t ,rof P c<n " f 'he river,
vfw t 5° f ,hc P"nfylvani»
ly h<Kt. immediate pofftflion may be had. For
further particulars, inquire of Mr.Juhn Siuit,
le next door^b»lo« -the City larern in Fhiladel
r. P h| ii « r tfiefubfcnbenn Bu.-liHfton
Jt Condition* will be/i.adeknown at time nffals.
d .THOMSON NK A AE.
ourlin|;tpn. Maw.h ,< ts
r, i-otgeries Committed.
>f \,V HE . K i '« v «- r al fo'rgrrii > hare been com
v v muted m this city by one or two nerfon*
known by the name, of Dr. Grant, alia. Smith,
r. ha* Gilbert Grant g;nerally w.rc a green coat'
( in p.rf.n, and gstit.el, had last one or tw»
, e x< eth in frort ; .l.dged, ah, ut Jul y , i 7o f. , t M r.
1- ° r,m " f « the George, in N.r.h S-cond.
Itraet { his frie.,l* Uve in New-Englan., ; fuppof.
v '? har « '" m .mitted several forgerie* f, New-
or *. ahd is f*id to be confined at the wh«l-har
e r »w at Baltiai're for fteahnj watches, the other
h >» a thort. thick mm, hy ,he name of Gilbert
d kn»wu by Mr. Orim« and Mr. Bignall, and (eve
r f"* *thar partini ia this city. Information given
• by aay person of theahove inen, to Wll. Pater.
" "i A "; N °' ' St *°" th KHh-ftraet, will be edeem.
* .j*' Gll ' ,rt i* batw*ea »o and *«
y«ar« old ; yellow, sickly look.
1 1 ' V-llir
ior MLW-yoRK,
SARAH,'
Capuia Coohr.
march
. wA*T a,7 " ~ ~
A Gardener—.j Single Man
Enquira at No. 39 Market-3ree».
T<mmrr-- ——
A good three story House
TWO rooms OB each floor, with a con lent
near Sauth-Areet.— Enquire
n * ar ch
I'or Sale"
By Elliston & John Perot
v r J A '' 41 ' JV °" A ,r "'r S'rcrt,
, London particular Madeira Wine, in p i pe , » n d
qu»rt rc*&s, 4 years aid and fit for uuioeu.-te aia.
lnt'-rior do.
A few balus Ailibad ColTe*
Eardanna Handkerchiefs . ,
Saii Canvass, No. ~ to 9
A few bs C s of Juniper Uerrie*
A parcel of Soaf Leather, a:id
A f;w boxes of China.
- n * rcU * tuJef^
Piiion Manufaaory.
a v. » T /WS SALn,
At the I nfon ps the City and County of Philip
[hia,
Cut Nails of -all fixes, from 3dy to aody
Flooring Brads. Spriggs, saddle and tard Tatk*
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakers and Sadltrs Thread
Marble, suitable for e.rrier's table*,
tomb and hea,: Pones, hearths, chimney pieces
platform., slabs tacia, window heads, fill,, t
All which may he had on reasonable terms,
.hoe* made and Weaving done at feid Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders from a distance, dirrfled to Daniel Tha
mas agent far the piifon, will be atteaded to.
December *6. sn th 6m
FOR SALE,
4°o barrels BEEF.
Snquira of
George Penitcei, *r
„ . „ Gid. Hill Well,.
mr.frh X.
-■ — 1 eotr
1 for Sale by the Sublcriber,
Forty-nine bales of Muslins, bcin K the rt. ,
nva.ns of the H,ip India's last cargo from
Calcutta, and will be fold low,
-7 Boxes of Umbrella*
2} Pipes of finelt particular Madeira wine, '
ot the tillage of 179 J.
- Mordecai Lewis.
d 2 w
OVAL BOTTLES:
Quart and half ga, lon crate.,-and a quant?
No n'ci. hAif J r ' g^
No. 13, Church Alley. JOHN DORSEY
n*wf,w.
Hyion and Young Hyson Te3.
A f-vv chelts of «..llent quality, for sale, cot
a »' *ni I'Hia Q (c jj- 'r Catarrh** AJ'mtatt
Walih's Antipertuflis, In r u
X■ fe ™*cer»aln cm* for that dif- Fo
i ;r the looping Cburfv. ," T Ho-f
dr.'j&eftWSSrSfejs
••-•<■ to p»(»BIh the fc,,owte *^® U, l <^fil CT . c,ir ''
»mr ch greater n»»iber, at pToof»P » Ha..
" -mmmcr-Hilt Stourbridge, Nov. «, 9 rifq"
M €lp . a Will
•• Plea cto (end by the eoieh, a large bott to c mJ
» 0! r • ::t: rafii. '. htvt girrnit to thejP»»'« ftaru
si.it n ■ •■» rhor.d, by whidtmany ha»r See" nir
Sos "hat *«•«•» difcrder the Cb.rcou,h.and by {|
in « . infuse haa it failed in ji»«F immediate OCCTI
atcoi
"I am, Sir, yoor very os«di«M H
"OEOAGB BRIHOO*- ;i , h ,
« Bith June 1 7?*» cunf
h *i r • •
" 'be c'auW my Zt
that I thought i< a auty whuh . . fj| u t=ry , r
, no, lor three-7% andwa. H
tiv-n ovc At tt.i» lime a fn«nd of mm e Men clrtl
fit>n-4 woe.; CI Jul eyes t{iat J>ad been .defied n
*?y you f tacdicrtie ; an*!'though v we
t tir.n that ir.y child could y rqcovcr,y!t tp t
rcfolved to if.- i. I uid 7*7' 'tnd
the happir.fft to lay, that lie is «1 -iite not the
l.aft (yinptorp of lij» euppla.ot retail.inf. thci
"Yoar's, &c. ftan
" JOsl VH £ILJS TOMKINS. in j,
(Lotion, to jr«.) ,„ - '. *f"
E«rdley, of No. 4. Poland-street, in the a
pati!h ol Si. [amt», came before me this day, arid , re
voluntarily maketh oath. ar.d'&i* > <W "® c &' Jd > bofl
. boy .hour two ye*M (jd.'wa. efifciHTially ciired c> p
of tic HOoritijt Coßgh (which- he was a/ttiSea buil
with in a molt viokpt degree for be (
tnd lor which be could gc no relief) by Ms. , hll|
Walih's Antiyertuflis. And tbu'deyonent further f re ,
fai-h, that at the time the child firil toslc thi> me- to ,
dicine, it Wit not «ip<Aed he eottld lite ; and tn*: th n
the firft dose, aim \ i*>mediately, removed J<an* wc (
of the most vibU.it,' fymptomt ; hit appetite,
llrerjth, and spirits rr.endid every day ; and this cu „
drpenent further fuitb, that thiec of f lu . u
made a pcrUSt cure ; ?nd tbat the child » now >• ,
at g»oi a date of. health M it wa. before- ftoe
8 JA>t£S SAg-DLPY. r
Sworn before me, til oaj' of March, '?9f- late
I'HOMAt Mayor.
ty It i.'Sdla, 'by 'jpiain'tment tf Ms- Wa ""> '.itu
by t-HAW (y L'p. Ko. u;. C!;efcut fircet, Fhi-
Jadflpbia : t! bottles f i dollars each—& !, « rc <*b t
r.isy te hsd Wulfi'i /-sgMK' "/ s£&*,,' tior
c ougl,',—£/««»/ niujitri, sor 1 rheanu-
tifms g<-ut, lumbago, ,y»Uy. spminf, t . y
and ' in boxes anu bottles»f I dollar eich as t
Smcrcim Ointment, an infallible core for thfltei at tke
' one using—Dr. Smith's celebrated S/--cjfc for the cf
rtrtrtjl Difiofi, at I and l dollars the bottle— ;f t
tlio, his Rtfloriiivt!or .i.i:l UUd•oufnMiotu Jt 3 l ' 2 the
—Norton',ArtHfcuhntit Vrofs —Bdifv' f paj
nr y, for coughs, colds, &C —Church'i dji
and GmfaW't Latin, fcr the face a»<l KW, &c. See. e j
m.ttbJJ- ' " "". —' th ** t-Mt cor
City Commi(lioner ! 's Ofitce,
January nib, inf
fOK THE IXttOR.MATjON C» fKB CITIJf We
r • l'aj tillow ing arrangericnt is mvif by tb,e p,.,
t (aid co;craifliuner«i, ftr cfc.-jvfiog the
ftr It*, t;: • /^Jii
DWijh irionn thrmjtb (id* «T lS f
' ftrett.fi) tVfcutfiTi.fo of Mulberry
be tinker tbc rjptrintttidir.ee or Niclrom Hicks.' t k,
1 Tromthe louth f>4ft of ftrcct, to ,
the fonth fide ef CtfiTfruTttrreitt, to be tmder the tal
fupermtendance ol WUi/am Moulder. --1
3. i: rom the foutb fide''of CheCnut .street to tr
the noriß tide of Spruce street, tJf he usder tie ed
4. From thatoith fide of Sprtict JKet, to the p<
fauth n'de.of Ce'clar fireet, to fee ur.dcr fte.fu
per'mteiwlance of R'hcrfi. r m
Vk'hcn pumps aft ouv <?f order Ibuth 01
Hkb -.ftfeet, pktfe a?r!y to Thomas Dixey. at the
earner ol Somtlj and Fifth-ttrc-ti, or Godfrey Oeb- «
Jcr, is Peur'th, ntar Chelnut-ftreet ; and north of /
High flrect, to Dixey"and Debaven, in Saffafru
ftrLct, between Sixth and Seventh-flraeU. . n '
be Sold, tc
A BRICK HOUSE, together with the Lot v
thereto bc!onginr,.'n the city of 3ur}mg- y
ton, New-Jersey. The house bas three rooms o
below, and three chambers in the tipper story. b
The kitchen adjoining is a frame buil ing. Ihe t
Lot has a irrr.t of 71 feet on Pearl-street, and
the fjtre front on the river Delaware. The
length of the Lot in about 150 feet—The hoofe 1
eow mand* a vei y pleasant profpefl of the river,
aptt cf the Borough of Bristol, on the Pennfyl"
yania (bore. Immediate poflfeffion may be had.
for further particulars, inquire of Mr. John
Sims next door below the City Tavern in Phi- j
Jadiluhia, or the fnbfcriber in Burlington. ..
THOMSON NEALE. 1
Burlington, mareh r. *eodaw
-^OTICE <
IS hereby given, the Subscriber, an infol- '
vtnt debtor, confined in the c»mraon goal of J
the County of Cape May in the ftata of New- 1
JeiTey, bath prtfented hit petition to the Judges '
of the Infeiior Court of Common Pleat, in and 1
fcr the,faid county, praying that they vrould
attend to hear what can be alledged for or a
gainfl hit liberation, pirfuant to an a<sl of the
Legislature of this State,entitled "an lA for
the relief of insolvent debtors," passed the 26th
day of Ja uary 1798—And the the fa;d ccurt
did appoint Monday the 16th day of March
ncxt'forthe purpose aforefaid ; to meet at the
Court House in the Middle Precintft, at eleven
j»'cloclt, in the forenoon ofthefiidday, of which
Wis creditors are requeft»d to take notice.
CHARLES ALLEN.
1 Cape: May, Feb. 8, 1798.
Feb. <4—^iaw;w
N O T I C F.
WHEREAS a Certificate to Hannah Shil
lt, of Oxtcd Cottage, Hi the, County of
Surrey, in Creat-Britain, Spinster, or her .afligns,
tor two thqafand five hundred and futy-two dol
lart twenty-three cents, in the deferred fto'ck of
the Uaited States, wat loft in the (hip Peggy,
Capt. Kycr, bc-und from Philadslphia to London
i* the -jar ritft. The fuifcriber, the said Hao
tiah Shelly, intends to apply to '.he Treasury of
thg Mrhted States, lor a renewal of the said Cer
tificate.
HANNAH SHELI.Y.
F«b. ij. isw6v/.
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. lies W'alnut-ftreet,
I >"VORMS those who wiih to recuf to the only
meaot of b«comi»f rierfeil in theEreneh I.an.
jrnngc.that he lias just opened his I,iiiaih, con
"Uling of upwards of 1300 volumes, the b«B cal
culated to atford either ufefol inftrn&iop, oc plea
fjre. The conditions, together with a catalogo»
«f the Library, may be seen at every book-feller's
ik town.
ft. All tranSations frona and into the French,
J-Mifh and S( iniOi Lanjuaget, execir.cc with ac
j\ anM d /jraleh. eeim rev. if.
k<(!n
proposals » ne \ i(
i .V
Infur ante CompaVy»f &rtb America. %
Prtr iMsunNCi agamft F«*. ~„j P ltcV
f Ho- fc- Warc-rfoufet, and other Bi.O<Jings inlla
• infuch Buildings) diftantfrom ,
[ ph.ladelphia, in the United States. p!-jl
e 1. Comma lufurancet, on haxards of th«:
n class. will be undertaken at a prem
ha., oer cent, per annun> For excr d en
'• rifques a larger prenaiHin will Ve require . obn<
w.llva,y according to circ tt mftance.
,f f ceeding one per cent, per annum , ! butjr.
5f stances" wkeVe the property tafored "no |J«
r ' itfett" extra baaardous. but reodered ft ,
ld by the vicimty o£ e»Ua h*aari.ous
e " occupations, the prrmiam demanded wid b
according tt»circuDiftane«». . "
Hsafes and Ware-Houfcs, the waUs and part -be a
tiohs of which are wholly of -stone or bnc ,
conftrufled, so at to b. guarded as well a. may be
a . ainfl fires from within, and lrom ratra b qfo
7.ardou» buddings and occupations m t^" r ' 1 ; | a
borhood, will be deemed hazardous of th- Brti 17
T dtfs, and mar be insured to their foil value. ~
Also Goods and Merchandize, Dot of an extr
• hazardous kind, ia cafe*, bales, or pack-agw, de- .
nofnod in (itch buildings, to an amount no- .esau
I ceeding 4000 dollars; but it mora than thit ftim ed a
'«• it required to be insured in one tenamcat, an a..<iti \ ,11
II tional premi.im willbe required 1 , in propor .on tvvo
circumftancas. , ron
ed n. Inference, will also be made on bmldingaand , }:C
lc " extra hazardous, at ftetpWr.is proporuoqta br - ;
I to tharifque. But is is not easy !•> arrange uin
" under panicular header
aach with the neeeffary accuracy. . c P'lO
therefore be decided upon the ing
fiances a'tending it ; and theft circu»ftaflce» wilij w ';,
in appear from the delcripuon a-' F p^.
jre prtTeratfle to those wholly wooden. And
ld > badlcaftr-, the fiile of buiUing, how th«yel -
capied, how they are fititsted, the - ■ -t,
td fcuiltiingb, and ho v occupied, ire cepfiderattons :
hr > be taken int. view. Aad wkh re.pe.s totroods,
thc.ii- tendency, -"Aether from their naWre, or , I
Its from the matter in which they are expofedi erthei
«- to com.nrnce or to wcreafe ajl aocidental fare, a»d ,
**■ their liaWily so iuch state t>» recetva damaje by
If-2 wet, fit by fed Sen andhatlyVc.noval, or to be fto- rj
,r < leu ill tiitr of ccnl'nfion anil hurry, ere all cir- _|_
'»» cumfiances of weight; and the pT«nmms must. be Glr
proportioned accordingly. Bo?
« i;j. The foliowint; condit; jnt are nndir- I
flood by the parties . <! u "
Ift. The Infamise « not binding Mil tfce ttipu- tlir(
htedpremlow be paid ; but it ft all bo deemed ef- « e^
r • fad uw from the tin.e of fech payment. ud actSy- fcm
tar.ee thereof, whether the policy be immediately 1
b'" figiied or not. . rnt
*h id. Insurances raay renewed at the ex? ir» - iS,
:rt tior. of the term of <\< policv, without further ex- 5
>*" penfes than the of tha premiunt of tire re- M
"'»• newed term, the circumftanee*e«ii'»Hiiiii2 the lame ,
I— as they were anderflood. by tho Intiirrrs at the tit»e jd
II the former oadi -t but tbc payment c «n
M* of the premium is eftential to .. .ch rcoewal ; ana , 0M
if the party insured luffers any titnu to eltpfe -after tin-
Irj» the expiration of the former infarasee, before he f er
r ays a pretnium for the rer.cw:il, he Is-ntf. nifnred a [
during such time; nor can Moiufurance be renew- w ;
kc * ed on the former policy h«" by computing the
1 comnunewneat of the renewal tri*i exp..
** of the former Hie tifbjccl of inl>lir
ance may nevertheleft be,o$ s-tt-ytreaty '.or a new j j '-
inliir-tace.
3d. If any other it.furanoe be made »i the laaie A
'H-e prcp'-rty ;it waft be Rlade known at thei/iue 0!
the jppSicstioti, otherwise the policy tr.a-bi on such ap- --|
/jiicff oit will fce void. t
'i«f 4th Gof.d* held in trufl, cr ou c<Safi»nm*nt. J»
to ur hs ir.fursd *s such in a fcparate policy? but •
As. they aresot-tSObe confidertd a. infured•the^vifr.
. *® ' . 5:!!. Thi« eo«»j>«rty will n«£ be
the tabbs f<» *p7. l«*» ''.»w«<se o<cjlioned by ar.y or
e!, .i ir./aSor, orb} any solitary or ofarped Brce, F.
t W er'br ?eafon of aay civil con-motion j or occalion
the ed by gunpowier, Mua-ortii or other thing of the
l.'-ek-nd kept in the tfuilditi;;, or amonsft thcj>ro
• the pertr isftired. ... ..
r u . ' ' tii. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Seeu- *
Sties, Title Deads, Money, Bank and other pro-' e, _
io { mifTory Notes, are not inch ded in auy infarance ; <
tt j, c noe are paintiags, medals,- jewels, gems, antiqae P'
curiofitics, or mirrors exceeding the valae of twen- P
t'lof t-/-fiv» dollars each, t jbe comidered as inlurcd un
fits- less particularly mentioned and by fpacial agree-
mcnt.
■*— - t h. No i.ifurirce will be made for a Shorter
te.-m than one year, nor for a longer term than fe-
Lot veS years. Perfont choosing to infaro for seven
[ing- years' fn»ll be allowed one year's premium by way
10ms of difeount: Otie third of a years premium shall c
iorv. be abated hi like manner on an inference for r
The three years. a
an d Bth. Lodes sustained by Are on property iniured, 1
•she ">*'■! be paid in thirty day. after due proof and li- J
iot»fe qaidation thereof, srithout dedudion.
,j vt , r A defciiption of the property to be infurod will 3
rl' be expe&ed with each replication, to be made by (
- »master carpenter\nd signed by him, at vyell as <
r . - by the owner of the building 01 applicant for in- '
pi'" ferance, and attefled before a Notary or principal 1
Magiflrate, who will certify hit knowleige of the '
'parties and their credibility.
With refpciSl to Houfts and tther Buildings,
jft. The Cte and pofitir.-n ; defpribing the
street or road on or near which the building
Infol- stands ; its contiguity to water, and other cir- '
oa l or -, cumftaaces relative to the extinguilhme»t of fir?
N ew . intafe of accident; and particularly whether
udeet ™y and w ' tl( firo companies are eflabiifhed, and
„ an(J engines providod,in the place or ncigbbomhood.
»ould ad. The materials of which it is buiU, wbe
-0 1. a . ther of brick, Clone or wcod, »nd what part of
,f t [„. each, at well as to the outside walls at inside or
S for partition walls, and their refpeftive
■ 26th thickness ;■ the style of the root' and of what
ccurt materials ,- how feeured by battlement* or par
darch ty walls; what kind of access to the top of the
at the house and to the chimnies s whether any and
; ! evtn what eleAric rods ; numlicr and Hind <jf
which 6 re p' 4Cfs ! t ' ie depoCt for ashes.
3d, The dimensions of the building aililhow'
SN» divided, and the style in which it- is, finished Ci.
as to enable i»difierent' persons to judge ir» whft
, v mahjierit is to be repaired or rebuilt iu cafie of
— injury; the age and condition of t-he U«il(jinf,
and how occupied, whether tperely as a duel-'
Shil- '' n S hoßfe.or for any other, and for what puj--
inty of pose ; also an efliroate of the value of ifcehuule
affijns, or buildkg independent of the ground. •
•o dol- 4th. Tiie situation with reipeA to other build
to'ck cf ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or |
Peggy, not, ctitnprehendlng at least one hundred f«ft
London each way: what kind of buildings are within
1 Hao- that distance, how built, Bf what materials, and
fury of how occupied or improved, whefher as dwe'l.
id Cer- lings for private- famTHes <rt-- other wife: whe
ther any and what trade or manufactory it car
t'Y. ried on, and particularly whether there be any
V 6v.-. extra hazardous articles used, or usually depo
sited in the house, or within the distance afore
■' said, and of what kind.
* in Houses, Warehouses, he.
-h ° n 'n which they are kept will be expedled, similar in
r con- a " r ?'P e '^ 3 ' as 10 , ' le danger from fire, with that
>lB cal required for Infuranee on the buildings them
n plea'- felve »" ~ . . r , .
Ltalogot '■ A description of the kinds and nature of
t-feller's 'he goods, whether in calks or other packages,
or opened ; ar.d whether displayed in whole
French, pieces or in the ufu.l form for retailing. And
withac- j if the gootls vary materially in kind, a general
a. ig. ! efiiniitJ of the Tils* ef »aih kiad prcpofed to
r - •
bu;» !aa m"*"*" 1 * 1
nef. of ription >*«*:.«*£« e / d Jrf detm .
s
inllamnaole fpi""> P ', j opened. — .'
» 4 rf an
»•«
« ?•
? A r,
• !*' the premium wj» be iromj- u
J swX' W^" l ,he arl/'it 'xriU
the jipiuc'iiion coutam »n amu-O
!- be iafwdtsU- . , , .
II 07 afriler of the vear/I, _
e saRNE&ER HA7,A^ v* ,? > Aoy
- QMa*f*bc WfW^cc Company </ Mr» t («
>- "" America ; Pk'dad. jif*. I, 179"- > An/
Feb, i - • —— cc
I «
;; of ; h£ Jiffu hc f»S *
; **
*n^.oKJcrf. fte-fitoe Wb
d t fe mam tticCt, a..', extenas ■" ft
d hr-adth too»ck ftrcct. Alfe, a large L° > - . ,
5 £>^S?*oXS?X.Z
'' w.l be given as'the piJrctiafcr may chufc. fhi.
■" property will b 3 fold free «f all incumbrances,
. arid an indifputabie title given. '
' For ferther particulars enquire either of Br.
William Burnet, refidmg in t^rc.entow»,J
j •
s, Conveyancer, No. 45, Kulb«rry-ftreet. *
ir — |
5 "" Boston Giafs Manufaftor /.
«T>HH *iti*=n«of we United Stale. »teJ«treby '
r " 1. iiifornled, that the manufacture of Window
if Gl-"i it U«vr commenced at the C IA» Hoife in
r- It is D eeSkT» to fay any thin~ of the excellent 1
nuaiity of theSoSaniGlafs, »•»'- info well know*
«• throughout the Unitßd State, to
•f- grsatlj fuperier to any ever imported i.orn ]
P" Enrcpe. , - , «
ly Jt will be cut to any fise comt*o»ly »icd ; and ]
may be coufb.ntly had by applying to Chad" F. .
*■• i:„' v «rr, a: thedafs House. _
*- <>rd«i fror,iike ilftatt Stf.ter tobe addressed M ,
' e * hU.'siukTX Goto, C-urt-flraet, Bollon.
n« ur three JSOOII Olaf, Aialicri ate wart
«c a daeth; alio*- works; such as «» produce ra
nt (jsn'.iuendatiom for good be{%a***r, maybeiureot
nd -lauioy, b/tp-pli.ation to Mr- Citvrgt L. LiaJt, at
tcr the* V.irk; Mot witboac faunlie. will be pre- .
hr ifcrfCa. However uriacqvainted with tke«xveth«d
•«d Cro-.vn Window Olsls, they will meet «'
W- with ths st«e eutinaragciucht'..
:h; Bbßoii, jsnuary 16 V —taw6w
;"r! New-Teri, Ftbrusry, 1798-
ew ,PROPOSALS^GEORGEFORMAN,
»or »*j»Ti(tb av suaicaii'TioN,
»i,e j\. New ant! Valuable Work, which ha« teen ex- A
:of taut only fix 'msr.ths—catitled
ap * T3 ROOFS of a CONSPIRACY agrinft
x all the Religions and Government jpf EU
r f ROPE, : carrkd oa in the fecrct meeting# of Tree a
- Mafuni, llluminati, audßeidiijg
- wtimoir, r*.~ *
rce, Pr*f'Jf>r cf Natural mufoby, «r.d &urti*ry to tit
on . ' Sayal Sichty •/ Jliwiur^k.
t ' ,c Natn (aa rcc agitur fiariei cm pVoxinJs ardet.
>ro " ifjr THIS work will be put to prt/s as soon a»
„„ 4oS fu»feribers are obtained, and no money requi-r
-- ed until tbe work is campletcd.—lt (hill be print- n;
ice . cd with an elegant new type, ani on paper of In
' peridr qtiality, which will tomprifa about 400
fin- P a ß es neat °^- avo ' haudfomely bound aud lettered
y n —the price will be one dollar and fifty cents.
. ' Thofa who procure i» fabferibers, and become
"■ accountable, (hall have a 13th gratis—and the u- r
irtcr fual allowance to boakfellers. f
sven •,'' The above-work couoes from the pen of T- '
W a y Robifon, of Edinborough, a gentleman in high
jj, a ll eftimatioa in the literary world—the faifts therein
. f or recorded are well substantiated, and the reasoning
and arguments thence deduced, while they difco
,r vcr the found judgment a*d panatration of the
td li- writer, are calculated to amuse as well as to in
ftrudl. A scene of villainy is developed by the
[will author fufficient to appal the iloutcft heart.—The
| e [;y danger to be apprehendtd from secret fccietias is
II a3 clearly pointed out ; the degeneracy of human r|-
, r ; n . ture awfully illuftratad, and the hazard of every (
cipal deviatioa ,'rem the straight- path of religion and
if the virtue, ineontellibly proved both to the politi
cian and the chriftiau by stubborn and incontro
rj vertable S*&s.
* the tit Subf o *'}*' o ™ in iy G. Formal!, No. 46,
p.j Williak-jtrlct, kppoftlc tie Pofl-Ojjici, ani by tie rtfpcc
r ~:r liw booifiellrrt i* Nt"j* Ttrt and Philadelphia.
if fne February ag.
ether New-York, January »4, 1798
, and PROPOSALS
nood. By Arondt Van Hook,
W ■ e Proprietor ef the Reading Room ;
ide or or PuWifting by SubfcriptioH,
t and An Appeal to Impartial Poilerity,
what By Madame Roland ;
r par- Wife of the MinifUr of the Interior in France
'* the CONDITIONS,
f and xhefe f (;arce
avid very valuable HiSoricat Mt-1
md of moirS( (which rid through two London sdi
fs* tions 111 a few months,) will be tomprifed in 2
1 how vols. oiSlaro, ol 400 pages each.
»Ed In They will b« printed on firie paper and a new
1 whft type, and delivered tp Subfcrihcrs, neatly bound
:a&: of an( i lettered, at 1 dollar and 50 cents per vol-
Iding, ame—one third cf the Subscription monsy tobe
paid on delivery of the firft volume—the re
t P us ." mainder when the work iscompleat.
:btule Tn printers, Booksellers, and others, who
acquire Subfcripticns, the usual allowance will
build- t, e raa de '
ing or 0- Subscriptions are taken at the Readh-g
---:d sett Koom, No. 149, Water street—the Printkg
within Office, 149, Pcarl-flreet—and at the different
ils,and Bookflorcs in New-Vork— Also, by William
dwel- 'Young, corner cf Second and'Chefnutflreet, and
the Editor of the Gazette of the United States,
is car- Ph.ladelpSiU.
be any As f o (, n as a fufficient number of Subfcrlbers
r depo- are obtained, the work will be put to prels, and
afore- compleated wilh the utmolt dispatch.
Ftb. jo. eod»m
For bale,
li'ar in A good situation for'a Country Seat,
ith that FORTY acres of land on the Old York Road,
1 them- within fig4it of Geraiantown and about five miles
from the City, the wh9)e being uudcr good lance,
ure of and in excellent crder ji paflure ground.
:kages, *"©i ~ iri' - : - c -ir«ion and termi, apply to
whale ; )ffice for th-
And I >'■ .'h, - , 3tc. No. 54,
feneraf P+iff-fttie
>f«d to n*»«r
. • - -ir ' A *" ■ 5 .
I !: . ■
i
treasury department
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
, „ r ir~,t fixth dav of lulr one thsufand seven hundredtsii
IN purfuaace oftHe Aa of Cengre on Sumpc(i Vellum, Parchment and Paper", andth,
niaety-feven, e»-t'tkd , J ec f m bcr, one thousand seven hundred aivd ninety-seven, e.titled
Aot paired OU the eommenccmeut of the d.ties imposed by the enti
" An A& rcr|> oft P oac f° r f i Vellum Pirchmcnt and Paper , that from and Hut t\c
, H »*' A J.Sf sompcj M. k«of« »>,'•>!<-
. d»f »dl«« or P.tchmeot, or Oi.ct or P U« of P»p<r. .p.n »hidi «.J1 k,
A °T pLflke"c Cettlfe«e of the .dmiffion.enrotacnt or regiftprof
*SS3«y3SX ».„» dvoc... or Pro el or, .» „y Cour, of U,,
United- Cer'iScite in any one of the Court, of the United States
4>y ss ?»**> «* *** s "'" 4
r--«— r«- <-
cent for lands granted for military f«vices) *
1
is
W ta Amount ther'e.f fluU exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
A SorSiStti£ U Hu'udred DoUars, the additional ium of ,
\lt Policy If Inturanc* or inftr«»ent in nature thereof, on any ship, vessel or
Znds iufured from «ne diftrift to another in the United States, 15
From the United Sutet to any foreign port or place, when ihcfura or w u
Asy P.ond,Ml I Bngte «r pe • * ecotnhlnce , bill, bond, or other obliga
tor' with th.e U*'tad States or any slate, or for the,
uferefpeflively, " , t excse dinc one hundred dollars, - 10
If aboic oneVundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, aj
If above five hundred dollars and not esceiding one thousand dollars, 50
' Ar^Ltehat e iS»y f: bond d s°orTotes ffiill be payable at or within sixty days,
I cSbonds or note, fhtil be fubj.A to only two fifth parts of the duty
t If sbeve^twenty^ dollars and uot exceeding one hundred ol1 > r f» * 4
. 1< abave one hundred dellars and not exceed.ng Sve hundred dollars, 10
- If above five hundred dollar, and not exceeding one thomfana dollar., 4Q
"My Not«lffuedbf^b2 r low .ftaWlffied, or that may hereafter be cftab;
i A 7 fc ed within the' United s:ates, other than the n.to. of such of the fa.d Banks
'• a shall agree to an annual cowpoGti.n, of one per centum on th« annual *-
VtdSs made by such Banks, to their Stockholder, relpefhvely, accord.ng to
8 fifty Mm. for -ch dollar' - *
t- on all rotes abova fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, J0
Cn afl nates above one hundred dollar, and not exceeding fiv. hundred
'5 dollars, ,1 . 1
On all notes above five hundred dollar.,
1£» JsS!SSSSJSS&. .n m " <¥*% «»J *T
:C rLts for Land jranted by the United State* a. bounty for milit.ryferv.ee.
_ Any Certifiifatc- or Debenture for drawback of Cullom. or dutu., for left than
five hundred dollars, * " " . ~ ~
J For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollar., a
' Tor more than two thousand dollars, - -
x- Anv note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
If <rum one ditrWl to anotbw diftritt of the United States, not being in the
ft fame State, - r . " , ' " '®
T If from the United State, to any foreign port or plaee, - * .
ABV Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effects, made in any
* ~ Jdereauiredbybw, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained tor
and «ocM« taknin virtue of any legal Erocefa jo
TSny CertigaiToTa Shin in any tumi-um Coapuny, ut * share 111««« Dana ef - —-- j r
,he United States; or of any State or other Bank, -
If abofre twenty dollars and uot exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
■ If above one hundred dollars, - - " 'S
If under twenty dollars, at the rate ol ten tents for one hundred dollars.
as 11.
i,r * The dutiesaforeiaid will'be ealleiSled and raceived by the Sapcrvifon, lnfpoaors aud other Officcn
of tnfpeflien, in the several Diftrifb, Survey* and IMvifions of the Unitsd States, asd by such other
ln " psrfcnsa* tbsll from to time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervilers of DiftriiSs for
°j that purpose.
-The Supervifisrs of the several Dißrifts,will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and m f.ion e«
I,e r.iav be pr.aicablc, mark orftamp, withcut fee or reward, any quantities or parcelsof
u " merit or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, ens payment of the said duties; Or
flamped v.rllum, parchment and paper i..aj at the option of the Citizens of the United gtitcs, be ob
tained at the rates prescribed by law, by application to any Supervilor, liifpcdar, Oftcer of
J - or other nsifoa appointed fotthe uiftribution-of Stamps, by the Superviforsol Dittri&s.
gll GIVEN under my Haud y at Philadelphia
era < ike day and year •hrvementitled,
•ng OLIVER WOLCOTT,
C Z Marsh 10. Secretary of the Trtafury. _
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands against
tha estate of Willam Flcewtoob, of
Liverpowt, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceafisd, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly atteflcd ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make imtpediate
payment, to
January 4.
Just Publiflied,
And t« be had at the Book-ftorts of Messrs. Dob
som, CiMPBtiL, Younc and o»mkod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caule. and Cure of Remitting »r Bilious
Fevers.
'To -which is annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the op'nions and pradtice of
different authers -. and an /. PPENEBX, exhib
iting interefling faffs and rsflcflion* relative to
the Synochu, lacrcidcs, or Yellow Fever, which
has occafuincd so much diftref* and
at different periods, in several of the seaport
-towns of *h« United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Falotv of the Philadelphia College of Physicians,
and Mcruber of the American Phileiophical So
cisty. Feb. I—*3m§
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-'eaft corner of Wal
nut and Fifth flretts, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front,
on Wflnu{ street, and ene huutlred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth 'lieet j there are at
present two small two story brick houi'e., and a
' number of ftnall lenementr tber«tiß.
Also, for Sale, 1
j Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, fitc. fituareon
Water street, between Mulberry and Safiafras
Streets, Containing in front en Water &reet fif
ty-!'<iur feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five J'eet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
, have the convenience of a public alley adjoin
, ir.g on the north fide, and area very defirablefit
uation sot a a merchant, Hour fatftor, or others
> who may have occasion for storage of goods.
- Tin. property will be fold on very reasonable
, | terms for cifti. Far furthsr information apply
(to the printer.
Julyji. mXvrtf
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, proposing to cnntrsS his baft
eels, ofFors this Eftsle for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnace.,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a veiy good gn&
Mill,with two pair ol stones; alfoagood Forge, all
in pcrfetl repair, as are all the Water Works conced
ed wilh these various branches. The Air Furr.aces
were lately built for lie pnrpofe of calling Canno*
for this apoij' two fcouland acre,
of l.and. one half of which is under wood, theochet
very fint arable Larvd, proaua;ing the best Hay and
Pasture. The Cannon lately manufactured thtre,
fully prove, the excellency of the metal, which *
superior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not owe of (rxiy-nine guns
lately made, althnug'n some of ttie 94 were br ted
into 32 pounder.,have failed on proving. The litu
alion is very eligible, particularly for this branch ot
manufacture, aid a place of arms lying in the ate
of Connefticut, and only 30 from f«veiallsnd»
ingj on the Hudfon'. liver, and having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water inning
from 1 large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may becouverted into a variety of ottor
ufeful pur poles. The purchaser can beaccommod"-
ed wilh all the ftodc and utensils, and have poll™"
on or bctore th.e firtt of June next, and P rc P? r ft .
may be madein the,mean simefor goingioton a
mediately thereafter, for every pait will be denv
in good order, .with forae coal, Ore, See.
terms, apply to Mr, ]ofeph Anthony, m t
phia; David Brooks, Esq. one of the Repre
in Congrefs'for thisSta'e ; Mr, D«vid V ateim 1
the prctrwfes, or to the praetor u^New^^^
Dee.
-h0 T /
'A Manufaßary of ycl'ov) and itfl "^ r ''
Such as never was in this Country be ,'* > Jl]( jinfc
been lattlv erefkd at Tivoli, Red « e vi,
onlhe East Bank of Hudfon'i R' ve '» a,c , a pts
York, where »ny article of vs'iw» or:i . en ,
may be executed, as well &
new con.liudieii, tliat favet three pW%mni«*J
commonly used in cast iron lloves or op . fa
they are bcfide*very whoiefome ora '
applying,o MOUCHET.
Wanted, fkillful band <0 attend to t^bak.^
glaiing part of the said ware. G
Efq.
No. 7 .So^h, s .hSt^
Feb. tfl.
Wanted, to Hire,
A I'Wg e and convenient HOUSE, ™
/\ the centre of tha or 4
ren 1 ; will be given ;to be texen to , .
more for a lorj.-r term. fn<l S .rcof th« Pn«
GA. 17.