of tijc and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Numbmji 1706. J
Fnr Hamburgh,
TH K SHIP
r Dominick Terry,
Jacob Dehart, Mcfler,
Having great part of her cargo en
gagsd.—For freight apply to
Jtjfe 6* Rebert Wain.
February 16 $
Nicklin y Griffith,
At their Store on Walnut Street Wkarf—
MATE FOR JALI,
5 % ht.Ji.nf Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wiuein pipes andhhdi.
Teneriffe do. in pipes
Old Port do. in hhd*.
Imperial Tea in quarters and eighths chefls
Sail Canvafu, No. 1, to 9
X>imities, Ginghams, and Muflinets, in packa
ges suitable for th« Weft-India market
Nails aCTorted
Black quart bottles
Queen* ware in hhds. and eratea
Yellow cchrc dry in caJks ;
And at New-York, on board the
(hip Diana, from Liverpool, expert ad round
as soon as the navigation is open,
X ine Liverpool Salt
C'.ais
Spinifh Brown "V
Venetian Red
is;£s \ pamts
White Lead |
Red Lead J
Colcothar vitriol
160 bundles Sheithing paper
Seaming Twine
0f cor eWter.
*llO,
BrigAMAios.
N. B. The late firm of Philip Nicklin & Co.
it now changed to
NICKLIN S? GRIFFITH.
January ». eodtf
for Savannah,
Tbt faft failing Ship
swlFr PACKET »
PiTMC* Gt.lMn t m*/ler,
Jfcj-jSaasW: VVILL fail on the iotli mil.
Tice permitting} has handsome accommodations
for paflengers. For freight or paflage apply to
the master on borrd, at Eickley's wharf, above
Mark«t-ftreet, or
N. (if J. Frazier,
No. 9J, South Front-street.
February j. §
For Amiterdam,
The Ship
F A A M E R,
John M'Collom, Master ;
--- WILL fail in a few days, the
•CJ=>s»£sS»iafijreater part of her cargo being
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffer, or
paflage, apply to the master on board, at Wal
nut-street Wharf, or, to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is landing, oat of the fald Ship, from
Bnurdean*, and for fait,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter
Claret in cases, of i superior quality
Fontiniac,
Santerne, > Wines in cafe.
Lunille, j
Prunes in boxes
Novembe >4.
For Sale or Charter,
jSj|» GOC)DHOPE
Will carry about uoo barrels, and
isrtady totake in a cargo. For terms
apply to
Pragers & Co.
No. 151, South Second-street.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar
pnd Rum, .Madera, Lifoon, and Teneriffe wins.
November 7. dtf
Twenty Dollars Reward,
FOR taking op a runaway servant Girl, named
Abigail Miller, latterly calling herfclf Betsey
Smith, and fending her to North Front-flroet, No.
45. !-he is of a chunky make, and very dark
complexion, with round scat.res, and black bulhy
l<aii;t probably much altered by paint and pow
ers, as (he i; luppofed to be secreted in house. of
d fame, though no more than fifteen years of age.
February 19. coaw
House and Lots, in Bordentewn.
TO BE SOLD, a handsome two story House,
with the Lot on which i> is erefted, Gtuat
ed about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
Village of Bordentown. The house is forty
two feet in front, and in neat order. The lot
contains one acre, and is one hundred feet on
the main street, and extends with the fame
breadth to back street. Alio, a large Lot, con
taining nearly four acres, separated from the
former by back street. One third only of the
p.ircha r e money will be required upon execut
ing a deed, ar.d for the remainder,, such credit
w II be give* as the purchaser may chufe. This
property will be fold free of all incumbrances,
and an indisputable title given.
For further particulars enquire oither of Dr.
William Burnes, refilling in Bordentown, near
tie Dremifcs, who will (hew the fame, or of
v PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer,
December a. 3awtf
' "UN THE PRESS,
AND SPStDIt-Y WILL BE PUBLISHED,
(frite 1$ Cmt/J
Refle&iorw on Monroe's View
er rut conduct or tbh sxtcvfirs,
As ptiWifhed in the
GAZETTf of the UNITED STATES,
UnSsr the figiiaturt of
SCI.PIO,
In »hu'l» the commercial ;ya f f*re of France is
traced to the French fs<3W H this country
•S it> fo'irce, Mid the motives of tf ' oppofit'on.
meafures ®f tke United State# *****!?•»"
Feb. 3.
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Chefnut Street
PHILADELPHIA: TUESDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY 27,' 1798.
Public Sale of Real Eflates.
On THURSDAY Evening 1 , the 15th of
Fcbruiry next, will be exposed to Public Sale,
at the Merchants* Coflee-houfc in Secpud-ftreet,
at 6 o'clock in the evening, the following
ESTATES.
No. i« A two story brick House, with • twe
story frame Buildings, on a lot to feet front and
lOC feet (Jeep ; also, a vacant Lot of 40 feet f qua re,
with the privilege of an alley to go (hereto. This
interest has lately been let for 100 dollars per an
num, and >s liruated in Chriftian-ftrect, between
Front and Second-streets, the fecoud house from
Mr. Caleb AihY
No a. A three story brick House, Gtuate at
the north east corner of Ohefout streets, baingi4
feet on Second-flreet, and 20 fset. on Ohcfnut
ftreft, now in the tenure«f Mr. Mopmge, at the
jffearly rent of 400 dollars, and is deemed one of
the best flands for the sale of dry goods ;n this city.
No. J. A handsome well timfhed three story
brick House, aofeet front an<T 100 feet deep, situ
ate in Fifth-ftreot, between Market and Arch
ftreett, No. 40. This oufe is built and fini(h6l
in the mederp ftylc, is in cowplcte repair, with
double cellars under the whole Theie is a cistern
of rain water in the yard ; and the houle is at pre
sort let for 600 dollars per annum with the taxes.
No. 4. A three story brick House, situate in
PUimb-ftreet, between Second and Third street,
being 10 feet front and 130 feet deep, at ptefent
occupied by Robert Kenny.
No. 5. A three story brick House, on the bank
fide of Front-street, No. 171 North, going thro'
to Water-street, where it is five story. It is 10
feet front and 48 feet deep, in complete repair,
and is rented for 600 dolhrsper innum.
The conditions of Sale are, one quarter ca(h v
one quarter in 6 months, one quarter in 9 mouths,
and one.quarter in 11 months.
Philadelphia, Jan.*», 1798. jaw
On account of the present bad weather, the
; above sale is postponed until Thursday evening, the
i firft day of March, at 6 o,clock. Feb. 16.
Valuable Property for Sale.
FOR SALE,
THAT well known Estate, called SHREWS
BURY FARM, formerly the reOdence of
Csnsral John @adwalader, lituate on Saftafras Ri
ver, in Kent county, Maryland—containir.g a
bout 19OP acres of prime LAND, upwards of 500
of which are in woods. The Buildings are all ex
cellent, and consist of a handsome Dwelling House,
two large Barns with Cow houses, Stables for fifty
horses., a fpaciou* treading floor under cover, a
granary, two Overseer's houses, two ran
ges of two story buildings for Negroes (one of
them new and of hrick), Com houses, a Smoak
house , &c. &c.—The whole Estate being nearly
surrounded by water, k requires but T ittle fencing,
and has a good Shad and Herring fiftitiy. It is
conveniently fitjated for both the Philadelphia and
Baltimore market*, wich two landings on a navi
gat le river but a fliort fail from Baltimore. There
is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
thepiemifes; also, a variety of excellent fruits of
different kinds. The foil is mostly a rich loom.—
The whole will be fold together, or divided into
frailer farms (for which the buildings are conven
iently situated) as may suit the purchaser. The
Stock on said Farm, consisting of.Horfes, Cattle,
Sheep, &c. will also bt disposed of.—-For further
particulars apply to Geokge Hastings, on the
premises, or to the fubfcriSgr, in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALI., juw.
February£a.j. 2aw6w
JUST ARRIVED,
In the Ship Star, Joseph Woodman, master, from
London,
50 crates Queens' Ware, aflort
ed to suit Weft India marktt
40 hogfhe ids Whi-ing
1500 bufhc \* g/:ad House Conl*.
A I —JUST L4.NPID,
4-0 barrels prime Beef, Boltou and New-York
50 barrels Pork
I {O hhds. Hava>na Molafles
Woolen C|oths^
Blauket# > afforSed in packaged
Hard Ware j
Dutk
Window Glass in boxe«, of various foes
Black quart Bottles, in hampers of I gr#ce each
A general aflortmcaj ol Queens' Ware, m crates
Fowling Piecesard Pistols, in cases
Balket fine Salt, in hogsheads
tor SALE BY
Tbos. & John Ketland.
February 15 fttM
Saliftury Eftate^
THE Subscribers propjfing to coiitraft hi# bufi
oefs, offers this Estate lor sale, on moderate
term?. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
* complete fioreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of stones ; *lfo a good Forge, all
in perfeft repair, as are all tbc Water Work s conneft
ed with these tvarLous branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built for the purpof; of caftihg Cannon
for this State.—There are abou? two thousand acres
of Land, one half of which it under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Pasture. The Cannon lately m<tnnfad»red there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
superior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to 2ny in the world ; for not owe ms fixtynine g»ns
lately made, althougn some of the 34 were bored
into 31 pounders, have tailed «#n proving. The fuu
stion is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufa&ure, aad a place ot arms lying in the state
of Conneftiput, and only 30 miles from several land •
in'gs on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water ifTuiag
from a large natural pond, very near the
and which may br converted into a variety ot other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all iheftoekand utenfiU, and have poftcilion
on or betore the firft of June next, and prepar tion
may he made in the mean time tor going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. See. For
terms, apply to Mr Joseph Anth«>ny, in Philadel
phia ; David Brooks, EQj. one of the Reprefentawves
in Congress for this Stale ; Mr, D vid Waterman, on
the premises, or totheproorietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee. 1. a*wtf
Surveyor General's Office,
December 2, 1797.
ON a release of survey of 433 acres,6l perches
of land, fi;uate in lower Smithfield townfiiip
Northampton furveyed to William Y'Vills,
per warrant of ?.d March, 1786, the Deputy Sur
veyor hat>h and* the following note, viz.
This land claimed by heir of Lewis Gcrdo:r and
Gecr?e Taylor, not known by what right.—t.'cx
tified f«r Daniel Broadhead, Esq. Su r veyor Gene
ral—William Vark»r.
The firft Monday in March next is appointed! for
a hearing of the parties on the a >ove caveat, or an y
others interested or concerned therein, they havinp
at leafl thirty Jays notice for John Hall, Sec'reur y
of tl'ie LanuOiUce.
N. Litf borough.
Jamuany 16 JtiFlwtns
NOTICE.
WHEREAS a Certificate to HANNAjfftTiL
i.t , of Oxtrd Cottage, in th<» County ol
Surrey, in Great Britain, or her afligns,
for two thousand finrtiunch'rd and fixry-two dol
lars
the United State-, was loft in the (hip Hcggy%
Capt. Hyer, bouni from Philadelphia to Lo'. don
in the year 1796. The fubferiher, the said Han
nah Shelly, iutends to apply to the Treasury of
the United States, for a renewal of the said Cer
tificate.
HANNAH SHELLY.
Feb. a 3. iaw6w.
term of Co-partnership between the fuh-
L fcribef3, trading under the firm of John Mil
kr, jun.and Co. expires this day, and by mutual
consent wil-1 not be renewed- I'he debts and con
cerns of the fame will he fettled by John Miller,
Jun. to whom all those indebted to the partnerfliip.
are carneftjy requested to make payment to, with
out delay.
JOHN MILLER, Jim.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
February 19 §tf
FOR SALE, by
John Miller, jun.
No. 8, Ch fnut street,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
—AMONGST WHICH Alt
Gurrahs M imeodies
Baftas Saunas
Guzzenas i'anda Coflaes
Guzzies Emertics
Blue Cloths C aliches
Palam;.ioqrs Roma'l Handkerchiefs
An.ongft them are a great proportion of the ma
nufactures of Patna.
British Dry Goods,
ALSO,
Forty puncheons of high proof Rum.
Febmary 19 5
Aicx. J. Miller & James Davis,
Having entered into partuerfhip under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller Ss Co.
INFORM their friends in town and country, that
thr y have opened a Wholefile Dry Gt>od Store,
at No. 64, South Front S/reet,Philadelphia ; where
they now have, and intend kceeping a general af
foatment of India, Germany lrijl, French and Brh
ti/b Mannfaduresfot sale, en advantageous termr
for cafti or a fliort creait.
February j
For Sale by the Subscriber,
Forty-nine bales of Muslins, being the re
mains of the ship India's lad cargo from
Calcutta, and will be fold low,
7 Boxes of Umbrellas
j5 Pipes of fined particular Madeira wine,
of the vintage of 1795.
Merdecai Lewis.
February 19 dzw
APR INT.
rH£ Print, reprcfenting General Washimg
ton 2od his family, all whole lengths in one
erouDe, will be ready for delivery by the lAth of
March next.
An unftniftied impreffi<Mi is to be fern at Mr. M'El
wees's looking-glass store. N»b. 70 South Fouith Street.
The fubfeription will clofc on the 10th of March
next. Subfc ibers may deoend on having the best
Pi ints at one guinea 4/id an hadj* To non-hibferibers,
the price will be two guineas
February 19. \
FOR SALE,
A quantity of CALF in the rougK,
and !»me horse lc»thei'. Apply to
UtiKERT SMITH & Co.
t No. 58 , Sonth Front ftrt r.
Ttb. 15.
NOTICE
IS hereby gi»en, that tri- S'il>fcrlhrr, an infol
went debtor, confined ; m the common poal of
the County of Cape May in tiie (hte of New
Jerfey,.hath prefentrd his [petitipH X<i tlif judfcei
of the Inferior Court of Common Tle«, in and
for the said county, pra> ing that they would
attend to heir what car. b( alledged tor or a
gaitifl bis liberation, purfua nt to art atS of the
Legislature of this State,entitled "an a<Si for
the relief of insolvent debitors," pafied ths a6th
day of January 1798 —Ami the the fa d court
did appoint Monday the ;:6th day of March
next for the purpose aforelaid ; to meet at the
Court House in the Middle Precincfi, at eleven
o'clock, in the forenoon of the said day, ef which
his creditors are request.d to take notice.
CHARLES ALLEN.
Cape May, Feb. 8, 1798.
Fefo. 14 —lawcw
Prison Manufactory.
TOR SALE,
At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails ps all Czes, from to aody
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakers and Sadk-rs Thread
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and hea itoncs, hearths. chimney pieces,
platforms, flabs,>facia, window heais (ills, c .
All which may had on reafynabl terms,
. made and Weaving done at said Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders from a distance, djredled to Daniel Tho- ;
mas., agent for the patfon, will be attended to. j
December 16. xnth6ru i
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
/ valuable Lot of Qrwni ;
SITUATE 011 the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth ftreers, fronting the Statc-
Ilcufe square This lot ts fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present two small two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Fate,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient scores, wharf, flee, fruateon
Water street, between Mulberry an I SalTafra?
Streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, the* widening to the
louth thirteen feet fix inches. These ,houses
have the convenience of a pubi c alley adj in
rng on the north fide, and area very defirablefit
u-tion for a a merchant, flour fa<fior, brothers
who may have occasion for storage of goods.
This property will be fo'd on very reasonable
terms for ralh. For further information apply
to the printer.
Ju y 31. m&wtf
Notice.
The Ihip Star from London will commence
discharging to-morrow morning at Walnut ftroct
v.h/rf, where coufigns.-s arc rcqueft'd to fend their
permits immediately.
i F<bi tiary 16
This Day u fubH^bed t
By John Ormrod,
No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, Philadelphia,
- A PLAN for tui CONDUCT of
FEMALE EDUCATION,
In Boarding Schools, Private Families, and Publie
SemiMriM.
By ERASMUS DARWIN, m.b.p.r.s,
Autf*r. tf ZcnotHia, *mJ of the But ana Garden.
To which are adde J,
RUDIMENTS OF TASTE;,
IK A SSRIES OF t£TT»*S,
From a MOTHER to her DAUGHTERS.
Embellifhcd with an elegant Fromifyfece.
(Prut, ntaily bound, gilt and leittnd. out dollar.)
CONTENTS.
The Female Chafer, Music and' Dancing. Read
ing, Writing, Grammar, Languages, l'hyfiog
liomy, Arithmetic, Geography, History, Natu
ral History, Rudiments of Taste, Beauty, Grace,
Drawing and Embroidery HcAthen
Mythology, Polite Liferan.rc, Novels, Art* and
Sciences, Morals, Companion. Vcr^citvv-Pru
dence, Jufticc, 6'haft it y, Fortitude, Ba. 1 } fulneJs,
Temperance, Religion, Addrefa, Conversion.
Exereife, Dumb Bells, Air, Bed-roocns, Fire
grates, Care of the Shape, Cnld Bath, Diefi,
tar ring 9, Powder, Amusement*, (..neb, Pu
iiiftursrits, Rewards, Motives, Lilp ng, Sum
mering, Squinting, Involuntary Morions Swel
led Fingers, and Kjbed Heels, Beds, Rheumj
tifm, Diet, New Milk, Economy, School-edu
cation, uses ©f, Catalogue oj suitable Books.
ALtO JUST PUiIT PCB ISIUD,
The Looking Glass for the Mind,
O R »
The Juvenile Friend ;
Being a valuable of interetting and
miscellaneous incidents, calculated to exhibit to
'young minds the happy eft"e<sls of youthful in
nocence and filial afft.fiion —ln prose apd verse.
Defigncd to improve ai\d anaufethe rising gene
ration. Embellished with an elegant Frotif
piecc and seventy-three Cuts. Price 75 cents.
Feb. 7ft
.Baikenridge—for sale
r consists of 9a® Acres, almost all of which is
a fins rieh Meadow, (the refidenceof the late
E*rl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of whi:h are bouaded on the
East by the river Pafaick.
Th-r** are on it a number of .buildings, forming
afquare ol nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
is a very convenient one and a small expence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard conftfts of 1500 fins bearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—-and there is on other pnrtsotfaid
trail near 300 other Apple Trees—as alio a great
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
best and most delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
Forest Trees, that 3dd to the beauty and conveni
ence cf the place. Its situation is abc ut 18 utiles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and I a from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in ea(h, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chefnut treet.
February t. eodtf
Landing this day,
From on boapd tbt schooner Two friends, Dan -
lei Crawley, Master,
FOR 3ALC BY
George I.aiimcr & Son.
Voiwyr.hrr 0. $
Bolton Glials Manufactory.'
ciH'*en# of the United States are hereby
' informed, that tl:e m vnafailore of" Window
Glass is now commenced at the Glass House in
Bolton. *
It h needless to fay anything of the excellent
quality of the Boft»n Glass, as it hjfo well known
throughout the United States to be in every rcf
peA greatly superior to any eyer imported Irom 1
Europe.
It will be cut to any size commonly used X and
may be constantly had by applying* to Ckariet F.
Kupfer, at theGlaf Houle
Orders from the distant States to be addressed to
Mr. Samuel Gere, C«urt-ftre;t, Boft< n.
Two or thre<i good Glaftmak rs ate want
ed at the above works; such as can produce re
comm. negations for good behavior, maybefureof
employ, by application to Mr. peorgc L. Lindt, at
the works. Men without families Mill be pre
ferred. However unacquainted with the method
of rvaking Crown Window Glass, they will meet
with the fame encouragement .
Boston, January 16 a; aaw6w
Jult Publilhed,
And to be had at the Book-stores of Meifrs. Dob
sow, Campbell, Young and Ormrod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caulcs and Cure of Remitting or Bilious
Fevers.
To ivLieu is annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and praAiceof
dilFcrer.t authors : and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interesting fa&s and rcfieAions relative to
the Synoclus Ittcrotdts, or Yellow Fever, which
ha>- occafioaed so much diftref* and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the
towns of the United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felow of rbe Philadel. hia College of hyficians,
and Member of the American Philoiophical So
. c«*ty. _ Feb. I—*.?ms
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the aoth
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wh. BI.ACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-street
Tickers ip the Schuylk 11 Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollars, where check books are kept lor register
ing nnd examining in these, the City of Walsling
ton, No ll.and Patt»rfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in moft;of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N.B. The businesses a Brckfr, inbuyingand
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
(!ifco"»ting Bifit and Notes of Hand, sale of
l ands, Houies, &c. &c. will be duly attended to,
by WM. BLACKBURN.
J
[Volume XIII.
Three or four Single Gentlemen,
may be accommodated with
Genteel Boarding and Lodging,
On reafciiablc terms, by applying at No. 3X #
North-ftrcet, between Fifth and Sixth-ftrects
February V*. eodjt
FOR SALE,
M the subscribers, No. ax, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Greta, commander,from Bengal,
Ctnfifii/ig of
Bafcas* of various qualities and puces,
Coflaes Punjum Cloths
Sanaht Guszeydo.
Humhums Charconna Dors*
Biuc Clcth Tan jibs
Chintz and Calicoes "IMulmuls
Mamoodys Checks
Maharagonges Patna Hkfs.
Ginghams M ilcnu'do.
Gu2zenos Bandannoes
G art ah# Siilerfoy
Piniafcocs Cboppa Romats
Salgatcl.ys Sooty do.
Gillie Korxtalf Pcrfuns of various coL
Meek Pulicats
aoo ions SUGAR
9«,ooo lb. PEPPER.
Wiltings & Frantit.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
commodious store the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-ftreers
Also—A few Hales of Madrafs Hkfs. of ele
gant patter. sauAbeft colours
February 8. j drf
FOR SALE,
By WHARION is LEWIS,
No 115 South Front Street.
A quantity of Tannr'sOil,
4th prooi Jamaica Rum, *> entitlod to
ift and ad proof Brandy, J drawback*
Madeira Wme,
Juniper Berries, &c. &c.
Ff - 9 eodtf
6'/. Croix Sugars.
i 6 hoglheada bell ST, )iX SUGAR,
For sale by
JOHN NIXON & Co.
Feb. 9 fmotwtf
VV anted,
An aflive, cleanly, im'utirious woman to cook
a/id do the business f the kitchen. Such a one
will be allowed good wa/e% and no other needap*
ply.—Enquire of the Printer.
February 7 §
Ran atuay from the Sulfcribcr,
On the 24th January last,
A Black Woman, named Zelime.
SHE is of a middling sized ftaturc, thick lips,
marked with the small pox in the face—She
carried off a tunrfl of lir.cn with her. Whoever
takes her up and bri. gs her to the fubferiber, at
No 181, Arch-street corner of Fourth-street,
(hall receive two Dollarr reward
J. LAZELLES.
N B. Whoever harbors fad Girl after this bo*
ticc, (hall be prosecuted to the fsverity of the law.
Tekruaty 10. *
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands against
the ell ate of WILLIAM COMPTON, lat
of the city of Philadelphia, decsafed, are requefc
ted to furnifh their accoußts, duly attested. And
thofc who are indebted to faideftat , are earntftly
solicited to make immediate payment, tp either of
the fubferibers.
Isaac Cathrall, 1
Jokn Haivorlh, S- Admiuiftratorc,
Samuel Wilcox, J
January. 27 w M w
NOTICE.
ALL psrfons indebted to the cftate of Peter OiU
late of the Diftria of Southward, dec-afed,
are requelledt make immediate paymentto either
of the Snbfcriber*; and those who have any de
mand, againll said cftate, are requerfcJ to bring in
their accountsdnly attested, to
John Murphy, ") ■
Peter ScravenJyie, L *
Thomas Farrell, J tol * s '
January 16.
Lately Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, cernejof
Second and Chcfnut streets,
(3 %tbs of a dollar)
Obfcr -vations on certain Documents
Contained in No. V and VI of
" The Hiltory of the United Statei for
the year 1796,"
In which'the timer ol sp ciiiatiox aeaiaft
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Srcretary of the Treasdrv. it FULLY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN BT HIMSELF.
This publication prefenu a eoneiTe ftatemtnt of
the bak meac. pra&ifed by the Jacobin, of the
United State, to asperse the charaSers cf those
perfoni who are considered as holiile their disor
ganizing fehemes. It also contains the correspon
dence between Mr. Hamilton an.: Meflra. Monroe
Muhlenburg and Venable, on the fubjeiS of the
documents aforefaid, and a frriea of letters from
James Reynold, and hi. wife to Mr. Hamilton
proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt, that the
eannedioa between him and Reynolds was the re
sult of a daring couf piracy on the part of the lat
ter and his aflociatce to extort money.
CZ~ A difcomit of one third from the retail
price will be made in favor of whotefale purcha
sers, for cash. Order, to be addressed to Mr
Yowno
February 9.
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DRY GOODS.
( Forenoon—Edwari Tex, No. /«,
Monday) J" 0 "'!" Front-flreet,
1 Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 6c
(. South Front street.
C Forenoon—John Connelly, OM City
TueTdaiX Auflion, No 73 south Front-flreer.
Afterrwon—William SLannon, jNo.
C. 18.; HJgh-ftreet.
J ( south Tbird-ftrcet.
TburfJy $ Eaward Fox.
/ t Afternoon—John Connelly.
! Frida, I VVillu.n Shun,.on.
' 1 Afternoon—John Connelly.
I Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfoo.Xije dsasette.
2r - i-i-u mi. - -
PHILADELPHIA,
TUESDAY KVFNING, FEB OVA "T 17.
Tc the Editor of the United Siatei 6'«a*/)r.
No. 11.
• it,
V' hen > ir.sn hat lived in t Hate of affluence,
and funkfiddenly from it in'o indigence, he is
naturally Ird to pause, and to take a rttrofptiSl
of In. past life, Iu feareh ®f those rattles which
have j?rodtired hit deptclTiou. Whilst in prof.
Parity, his anxiety was extended abroad, iu pur.
suit of inereafing gains. An enlargement of hit
poflXfion* f« enprrPed hit folieitude, that hit at
tention wat not *> .Fcrtd t* return home, to.
'Watch ov«r, and pr >te<o, what he had alretdy
obtained, from those feeret' causes which weie
unoblervedlv operating his deltruflion. But
when deftruAiou has aAVally overtaken him,
hit attention i. arretted—but it is then tuo late
to prevent the evil. All he then can do, is to
vent unavailing lamentations over hi" departed
afßueace,*jirt jsrh»p< execrate his car*lefll-efs in
aot detecting the causes in their approach, that
he migh' have averted their ruinous cfTeifts
Such, alf ,it the cafe with a nation. When it
it prosperous, 1 dt finning government may make
rapi 1 and lengthy .ltridea towards despotism
or tr w .rd its ruin, -aiv' nottwJteu the vigaience
•f thole <s ho are threatened. But when the
fcenr iS changed, and the nation is balancing on
the brink of rain, or aAua iy plnngrd. then the '
national vigilance it roused ; in the fiift place,
to execute vengeance upon those a ho have heen
actively inOrumenttl in Snnging evii upon it ;
and in the second. to mourn over its departed
prefperitv, and to execrate its flupidity, by
reason of which it hat heen iuvolv d in its ir
rem.tfiable calan.i'y.
By attending to the history of the French a
gents in our country, since the year 179.1, I
much uu.judgr, if we do not fii.d that the Unit
ed States exemplify the fiift of the two p«C
tions ; and I tnuebmore deceive myfelf. if it ii
l<Bt now nearly reacy to verify it second ly
txtcuting vengeance upon those who have heen
inftrumenta) in facrificing its prafpen'y. For,
fhowld this cmnHiy be involved in a war with
France, it will be remembered, by those who
have to lufhin the burthen of it, that it has heen
indnted by the Fren. h partizant in this coun
try ; thoft who have uniformly opposed the in
terest. of the L'ni ed States in favour of France.
Ai d, in caie of 1 war, it will then be neceflary
for 1 hem, either the strongest pat ry, ar.'d
fhetter theinlelves under its force, or to submit
st Uifcretimi ; and it >iuijrY.c a fcrious question
viitb tb.m, what <will be the difcretio.i of a juflly
incensed union, fighting under the sacred ban
ner of its favourite government, in defence of
its dearest Bold afTertiort, and flu
ent prevarication will rot thea avail; nor will
rt then answer to change their fides ; for those
who have iu a time of natir nal feevrity, with de- .
liberate calculation, deferred the national inter
eft,.c.r w:nton f y facriHceJ it, will, ia a time of •
national U.-nger, be maiked with, diftrufr,
treated with that Hath nal severity which insult
and injury jufily irtfpire.
I Ihjllnot attempt to trace the history of the
French influence, ai.d French inttreft in the U
nited Ststts, Ence the year 1793. h has so of
ten been dor.e, that those who are now unac
quainted u ;th it, wr>uld prnbably remain unen
lighteoed, though it fhohld be rtpcated many
times. To remain uninformed, th-y must have
shut their eyes on evidence, closed their ears a
gainfl information, and obflinaiely fixed their
hearts in unbelief. Phe ultimate ohj<3 which
it hit uniformly had in view, and of which it
has not yet loft fight, is ihe proflratjon of our '
independence, and the fuhv'erfion of ourconft -
luuon. *rhit hat, atfo, been often proved £ aot'
it has now, J fear, frooi its frpquent illuflrition,
loft much ot its influence nptfn the public mind.
However. I (hall once more trace it ; for, pofji
bly, in the lafl fteji of daager, (and let it be
noted, we now star.d on that very step) my
countrymen, when viewing the precipice before
th«m, while there is yet one step left between
them and deftruclion, may turn from if, and
with ajuft indignation, hunt those from office,
wb# have blicdly urged them on to defparuion
Clnr government mult be supported, or it
auft fall. To support ir, there must be are
venue. That revenue must be ra led hv diretft
or of by indireiTt taxation. The revenue of our
government, is raised principally by the latter;
and tnat arises, in much the largest proportion,
from duties on our commrtce. If, therefore
our commerce is deftroyrd, the reveaue refill
ing from that, niuT nercfTari'y fail Thegov
ernmeiit then mn(t fall, or it mufl'be supported
by a revenue, taifedhy Jirc!} taxation. Adi
riyTl taxation must fall immediately upon the
is' -iters rjieir ho-ifes. lands, eattle, and all
their <ryperty, must contribute a certain pro
portion to futiport the g ivernment—or the g->
vernmerit must fink for want of a revenue, if
the indirect taxation is destroyed—and the in
diretii taxation is destroyed the moment that
commerce is destroyed. The antiferlerals flatter
themselves. that a direct tax would be so ui; fTt'p
ular, thai it would prove impracticable ; and,
therefore, if they can acsompli h the deftruitian
of our commerce, their obje& ii at once effect
ed—fince the government falls, of courf , fjr
want of a revenue to support it. By the con
duti ot Mr. Monroe, Mr. Jefferfon, and their
adherents, our commerce ij nearly destroyed,
tnd they are near to realizing what they so ar
dently desire, viz. a revolutions predicated upon
the prostration of the federal confutation. And,
Ihould oongrefs refufe to fuffcr the merchants to
arm in their owu defence-rlhould they lay an
embargo, which is now fuggefltd—they will !
put the la 11 polish on our national ruin—they
will completely " flop the wheels «f govern- ,
■XW" XIMINES.
Rifoxt of the Committcb »/Pritilbg« s,
to whom tuaj re ferret, on the i6tb mjlant, a
Motion for the Expuliion of Roger
Griswoib and Manure Lyon, Mem
bers of this Hi use, for riotouj and difcrderly
behaviour, committed in the House. Ordered
to lie on the table the loth February, 179 ft
. by order of the House ofßeprefentati-VM
(Concluded from y-ftirdafs Gazette.)
Mr. Gordon* 1 Tefiimnny.
No. VII.
I, V. llliam Gordon, do teftify and fay,
that on the morning of ths 15th of Febru
ary inflant, about the hour of eleven, I
went to the hall of the heiufeof representa
tives. Very fo»n after I had entered, I
observed Mr. Grifwold come with a cane in
hit hand. In the course of a few minutet
aftcrwardi Mr. Lyon also came into the
house, and immediately went and placed
kimfclf in the feat which he has usually oe
eapied, nearly oppnfite to the chair of the
speaker. He had in kit hand a cane, which
at he seated himfelf he placed behind him.
On facing him I immediately threw my eyes ,
u(>on Mr. Cn'fwold, but could not difoMfr
that he law or took notice 01 hipi. At liiij
time the speaker wat in kin chair and writ
ing, at ii usually the cafc it that hour of
the day, but tht house kad not come nor
had it been called to order. Few members,
comparatively fpeakiag, were within'the
bar. In the course of a very few minutes
after Mr. Lyon had seated himfelf, I saw
Mr Grifwold with hit cane in hit hand, ad
vancing from the floor to the left of the
chair of the fpnalser, with a Tery quick and
flrong step towards Mr. Lyon. At he ad
vanced he raised his cane, and uttered an
exclamation of rascal, or scoundrel, or of
the like import. Before Mr. Grifwold
reached him, Mr. Lyon, acc\>rdiag to tire
best of my recolleition, bad partly risen up,
from which I conclude be had discovered
Mr. Grifwold approaching him. As soon
as Mr. Grifwold was within such a diftaace
from Mr. Lyon at to reach him with effeft,
he instantly appl.ed his cane with great force
to his back and shoulders. As soon as Mr.
Lyon was able to effeft it, he made his way
from the feats into the floor on the inner
fide of the feats, then quickly advanced to
wards Mr. Grifwold, apparently with in
tent either to catch hold of his cant or to
close with him. Mr. Grifwold fteaned to
be aware of hit intention, llepping back
wards in such a manner >s to keep Mr. Ly
on at a proper diltance for the use of bis
cane, rapidly applied it to his back and
shoulders. As soon is Mr. Lyon had got
to the line of the pafTage behind the fpeak
er't chair, he rnflantlv attempted »o escape
that way to the oppnfite fide of she house.
Mr. Grifwold pursuing him, gave him three
or four blows acrofithe back. At thit
time I observed Mr. Lyon turning, it ap
pearing to me that he was prevented from
palling any further in tjiat, direction by the
crowd that was advancing towards thefceae
of action. After he turned he seized the
tongs by the fire fide, and Mr. Grifwold
then being very near to him, (truck him wijh
tnem. Mr. Grifwold laid hold of ttiem,
and they immediately cleftd in with caaj'
other. After ji fliort struggle Mr. Grff
wold threw Mr. Lyon on the floor, and fell
upon him. They laid some little time in
this fltuation, Mr. Grifwold attempting to
disentangle himfelf from the grasp of Mr.
Lyon in order to pursue his chastisement
further, and had nearly effected it and pla
ced himfelf in a situation proper for' that
purpose, when two or three petfont laid
hold of him, and drew .him off from Mr.
Lyon. While down, b£' gave Mr. Lyon
one blow in tlic face, and wrested the tongs
from his hands. When separated, I saw
Mr. Grifwold go towards the oatfide of the
bar, I suppose with a view to take some
watier. Shortly afterwards I saw Mr. Ly
on making towards that part of the house
where Mr. Grifwold was. He approached
Mr. Grifwold, who was Handing at the en
trance ''f the bar, and struck him with a
cane. Mr. Grifwold't cane was inflantly
handed him, and .be was making again to
wards Mr. Lyon, when there was a loud
call to order for the firft time ; this was in
itarttly repeated by the fpeakcr : I laid hold
of Mr Grifwold, sundry persons threw
themselves between him and Mr. Lyon,
and Mr. Qrifw'olj instantly retired and took
his feat. .
WILLIAM GORDON.
7 he foregoing fivorn to andfubferihed,
the fjth of February, 1798,
Coram Reynold Keek.
Mr. Elmendorft Teflimony.
No. IX.
On Thursday morning lart, having been
engaged in writing in my room until ! tho't
it very late. I entered the house of repre
sentatives with some surprise, at not finding
it engaged in business. The speaker fat (I
think) writing in hit chair, as I crossed the
floor to the letterbox ; and onTeturningto
my feat, I saw Mr. Lyon in his feat, in
the porture of writing, or reading papers
lying on his desk before him, having his
hat on, and not appearing to perceive roe to
pass him, although very near him. From
my feat, which is the second in the third
row,, almost direfily behind his, which is
the middle feat in the front row, I observed
him in the fame posture immediately before
I heard the firft blow of a cane ; upon hear
ing which, I observed him still fitting, with
one arm in the position of covering his head
and warding off blows, and the other in
teeling, as I thought, for a cane on the floor
beside or before him. I saw Mr. Grifwold
at this time on the open floor directly be
fore him, beating him with all the strength
and dexterity apparently i'b his power, with
a carie of the flouted kind of American
made hickory, and repeating his blows as
faff as I thought he could make them. Un
der this pressure, Mr. Lyon, in a defence-
Isfs date, made cut of his feat fide way,
being hemmed in before and behind by the
defies and feats, so that it was wholly out
of hi 6 power to escape a single blow, or to
interrupt Mr. Grifwold in the aft of beat
ing him. Immediately, I myfelf, for one,
role in my feat, and loudly and repeatedly
called out to the chair for order. I heard
the fame call from different parts of the
house ; but I did not observe or hear any
effort from the speaker to reflor? it, or any
personal attempt by any one near to inter
fere and prevent the attack. On the con
trary, I think I diftinftly heard the fpeak
ei reply, that the house had not yet been
called to order, as a reason for not interfer
ing at all. At soon as Mr. Lyoo had got
out of the row of feats, he made towards
Mr. Grifwold and made every effort to close
with him (as it appeared to me). Mr.
Grifwold on his part, avoided this by hold
ing him off with his left arm, fleppiug back,
and continuing to beat Mr. Lyon with his
cane, at before, until in this way they
both got to the fire place, to the left of
the fpeaker't chair. I then heard the noise
of the tongs, and immediately after saw
them hare hold of each other, and Mr.
Gnfwold'i cane falling out of hit band.
Soon after iK y boll. feil, Waving hold of
each other, Mr. GrifwoM partly upoa Mr.
Lyon. At -this time, .1 to the place
where they were engaged, and called out
to part thtm. I heard the fame cry from
behind the chair, and I also heard the op
posite cry from otheri not to fart tb-m—Mr.
Havens ind my'felf each took hold ef Mr.
Grifwold'ilegf, and I think, together drew
him off from Mr. Lyon. At the fame time,
I think, I saw others having hold of Mr.
Lyon. When the speaker obferred Mr.
Havens and myfelf taking hold of Mr. Grif
wold, lie with apparent warmth, jj if there
by to prevent our interfering, called out,
in substance, at nearly ai f can recolledt,
Wt. at ! tale hold of a man by the lege-—that it
noway to take hold of kin. Nocwithftand
ing I perfevcrtd, and I think Mr. Havens
aflifted me in drawing Mr. Grifwold apart
fr»m Mr. Lyon. Mr. Lyon Went direct
from that place to h ; s feaj, where he Rot a
fmallcane, and went from thence south of
the bar, where 1 saw him and Mr. Grifwold
soon after meeting, and Mr. Lyon making
up to hiin. Mr. Grifwold retiring from M r -
Lyon, and Mr. Lyofl making 3 blow at
him with his cane, which Mr. Grifwold,
I t'nink, received 00 his arm or shoulder.
The loud cry of order from all pai ts ps the
house, and from th< chair, here put an end
to the affray. Mr. Grifwold'a cane was
delivered to him by Mr. Sitgreaves, I think
jurt as he stepped within the bar, which he
took frpoi thence, J think, direA to his
feat. Mr. Lyon without the bar, and thus
the affray ertded, remained and the house
proceeded to bitfinefs. .
LUCAS ELMENDCRF.
Sworn andfulferibedthe I "Jib of February,
»79 8 -
Coiam Reynold Keen.
No. X.
Mr. Stanford's Tjlimouy.
When the riot commenced in the hall of
Congress on the morning of the Ijth inft.
between Mr. Grifwold andMr.Lynn, it was
about twenty or thirty minutes after eleven
o'clock. Prayers were over, but the house
not called to order. Sitting in mjr chair, I
was attentively reading some letters I had
Jiift received. In an inilant the fiidden
buttle arretted my notice. Not having ob
served eitfitr of the parties enter the hall, I
then saw Mr. Grifwold on the area of the
floor, wiihan apparently heavy (tick, ma
king a blow (perhaps not the firft) at Mr.
Lyon, who was between his de(k and chair
in an half rising position. This blow, I
think, he received on hi 3 left arm and shoul
der, and a fecund as he was disengaging
himfelf from among the defkt and chairs.
Once poffefling the floor, h« essayed to join
Mr. Grifwold, wh© evaded him by a retro
gade flep and a third blow, which fell upon
Mr. Lyon's head, his hat being off. Then
V,eating back a little to the-left of the Speak
cr's deflc as Mr. Grifwold approached, rc
peating his (trokes, Mr, Lyon'again attemp
ted to close in wj'tji him, but failed, and
made suddenly behind the Speaker's dtflc,
which,
moment intercepted my view. Then in
ftintly again I faw,Mr. Lyon with a pair
of tongs elevated f«r a flroke at Mr. Grif
wold, wfciah, seemed, to be somehow parried,
so as not to be fully, made. A collifioa, I
think, of the fticik,? tongs and persons now
took place, Mr. Grilwold about this time
loft his flick ; that rfung, they came down
both together ; the fall I rather think I
did not lee, from thi; intervening members,
but whendown they appeared tobegrappled
about the head and /houlders, and -Mr. Grif
wo[d rather upperntofl. The confuiion of
the house was great, and the cry «' part
them," pretty gen< ral. Thus while some
gentlemen were- dif« ntangling their hands,
others had Mr. Grifwold by the legs, and
were pulling him a way, which was effedted,
The Speaker ftatif.ling on the steps of his
desk, said, that it was either unfair or un
gentlemanly totakeaman thus by the legs.
Gen.M'Dowel then observed, that he (the
Speaker) had a£tedl his part in the bufmefs,
and the Speaker aflking what he said, Gen.
M'Dowcll repealed his observation, and the
Speaker answered, what could he do, the
house was not called to order, he could not
help the event. The General replied he
fuppoled he could not.
The parties having been separated andleft
at large, they eafually met again after a
small space, at the south water (land with
out the bar, when Mr. Lyon, as soon as he
appeared to discover whp it was, raised his
(tick, which he bad got hold ©f in j the in
terval, and (truck Mr. Grifwcdd on the
(houlder or arm. Tbe (troke was quite
light, beißg haftilv made, and with a (tick
not very large. Mr. Grifwold then beat
back to the entrance of the bar, where
some one, I think Mr. Sitgreaves, ran, and
met him with a similar, or the fane stick
which he had loft in the firft rencontre.—Mr.
Lyon also, after (trikitig, stepped back
from the water (land, elevated his stick, and I
flood in an attitude of defence. Now it I
was that the Speaker called to order, and !
no other conflift ensued. Mr. Grifwold
presently returned to his feat, and Mr. Ly- I
on remained at the water (land. The above
detail is as oorreft as my memory fervei me
to give of so unexpected a fracae within the
walls of the House.
R. STANFORD.
Sworn and fubfc riled, the 2 fib
of February, 1798.
Coram, Reynold Keen.
j
To Let,
About jo acres of ground, with a good house,
garden, fUbles, ftc.about 4 t-t miles from lown
Immediate poficfßon may he had
PETER BLIGHT.
February if §,ot
For Sale,
The Indenture of a healthy, /Iron?, and aSive
NEGRO GIRL,
Who has nearly fourteen years Co ftrvc.—! n
luireat No. 118, Market Street.
February tj }3t
BRITISH PARLIAMENT.
HOUSE OF COMMONS.
Thursday, December 14.
(Concludedfrom ytfterday't Gazette.)
Thee H A Net LLoa ofthc EXCH
right honorable gentleman founds his argu
ment for delay upon the agitation which this
qurftion has excit-ed in the public mind, and
the obje&ions to which the measure is liable
in its application to a great number of hit
constituents. lam aware that in all great
to was, particularly in the metropolis, the
objections will be felt with peculiar force,
but at the fame time, I am sensible that in
the proviflons of whVh tbe bill is fufcepti
l>le many modifications may be expe&ed,
many are practicable, confidently with the
leading principle of the measure, and many
arc necessary, in order as far as poflible, to
prevent it from bearing hard ih particular
instances. lam aware «ven that greater
modifications may be necessary than appear
ed to me requilite upon the firft eonfiderati
on ot the fubjeijt, and when the firft imper
fect outline of it was prelented. This how
ever, does not by any means tend to impeach
the general principle of the measure. These
objections are capable of modification with
out defeating the salutary object which it is
the purpose of the measure to secure. In
stead of feeling these objedtioiisas compjete
ly deftru&ive of the principle, every hours
reflection convinces me, that though it is
our duty to enquire in what refpefts modifi
cation may be proper, how it may be prac
ticable, how mitigation may be given so as
to prevent any oppreffivs application of the
measure, yet as to the general neccffity of
providing for the public fafety, and repell
ing the danger by which we are threatened,
on the determination we fliall form upon this
question after mature discussion, depends
whether,by the exertion we havtpledged our
felvet to make, we (hall rescue the country
from impending calamity, and lay the foun
dation of as great a portion of future great-'
ness and prosperity as any nation ever en
joyed ? or whether we shall surrender the dig
nity ot the Brililh nation, and expose to in
evitable ruin the fourtes of its glory and its
power? Feeling, as the reprefrntatrves of
the people, that it is our duty to provide ■
for these important and essential pbjefts, we
shall be deteried by na difficulties, wc (hall '
spare no pains, we shall facrifice every local
prejudice, every partial opinion, to a con
(cioufnefs of the neccffity in which we are
placed, to ipake a vigorous exertion. Feel
ing as I do, that necessity, I know my duty
too well, not to persist in'what I conceive
to be a measure calculated to serve the coun
try from impending danger, and enable it to
struggle against future attacks. . It is our
firm duty, as guardians, to provide for its
present (afety, and to transmit to posterity
the blessings which we have enjoyed, and
the means of preserving them. It is '>y
these great confederations that our conduit
ought to be diredted ; it is by these great
maxims of policy that the measure ought to
be judged. ' Can we then conceive it onr
duty, on account of (ome particular objec
tions, of some ailedged hardfhjp of applica
tion, to Hang up. the Bill altogether, before
it3 provisions have been difruffed, before its
details have been arranged, must we forego'
the opportun ty of suggesting the cafe,
where the evil would be fek, of removing
prejudice where it exllts,' and obviating ob-|
jeftions where they are well founded ? In
(lead of agreeing to any delay both in real
refpedt to those who complain of the hard
ship with which the Bill in its present shape
would attach, in duty to the public for the
service of which, in this important crisis, we
are called upon to provide, we nught to lose
no time to examine the Bill with the utmoit
attention and fee where the pressure which
it would occsfion may be migitated. What
are the particulars and extent of the further
modifications which it may be (till necessary
to introduce, it will not be incumbent on me
now to state. It will be recollected, that
when I firft opened the fubjeit, 1 dated that
as a vililjlc criterion ot income, I preferred
the payment of the assessed taxes, because
it was more comprel enfive, better calculat
ed to diffufe the burden, more susceptible of
modification in the various classes where it
would be required, than any other criterion
which could be taken. It will Be recolleft
ed that one great recommendation of this
criterion" I stated to be, that the principle
being (till prefcrved, it furnifhed greater
means of modification, and more opportu
nity for providing for the particular cases
of hardlbip and inconvenience than any o
thef criterion which could be adopted. The
means of this modification are now in our
1 power, and we shall but perform our duty
to our constituents, by (hewing our readi
ness to consider the inconvenience, and to
apply the remedy.
That many modifications are necessary I
am aware, and in the committee, both those
which I may propose, and which others
may suggest, will be considered. This I
trufl will be a fufficient answer to what fell
from a worthy alderman (Lufhington)at the
beginning of the debate. Much at I differ
from that honorable gentleman as to the ex
tent of the abatetnent, and the'nature of the
scale of contribution he proposed, I was
glad to hear the manly and decided manner
in which he enforced the necessity of great
exertion, and the propriety of raising a con'
fiderable sum, without recurring to the sys
tem of funding. lam convinced that the
ientiments he expressed were congenial to
the feelings,ot a great majority of his con.-
ftitu-cints and of the country, and I could
not help remarking the contrail between the
language he held, and the tone of the hon
orable gentleman on the other fide, compar
ed with the sentiments of their refpeftivc
constituents, in the iodifcriminate opposition
ro every part of the plan, which charadter
ifed the speeches of both the honorable gen
tlemen. Ido not complain of the wide
field of 'argument which they took up ; I
Itnow that in a parliamentary sense they were
regular; vhetheflhey were jufti£il.!e in ih
I ulc they made of th.» piivilcge, and whe
ther tbey made a proper choice of the :opic»
which they introduced on the prefeot fiib.
jest, I fhaltyleave for the house to determine.
The objeft of this bill (hortly i«, for an ex
traordinary grant of money for the fnpport
los the war. It proposes to raise within the
year, a certain part of the Tupping, by a
tax on income, on the visible criterion of th»
affefled taxea, fubjeft to modifications ai
circumstances may require, In considering
the whole of the cafe then, the firft question
that occurs is, whether it is proper to grant
any money at all ? then, Whether the pun
ciplc of railing a certain part within the year
ought to be admitted? and, thirdly, Whe
ther by this criterion attaching to income
in the course of expenditure, the burden
would in general be fairly apportioned ?
As to the firft point, whether any money at
all aught to be granted ? the honorable gen
tleman (Mr. Sheridan) though he did not.
fay so in very words, by the whole of his
argument supposed the negative. The right
honorable gentleman who fpokelaft diftiniSl
ly argued, that while miniftess continued
in power, he could not agree to any supplies
being granted. In Jlatiug this to have been
their meaning, I am endeavoring to iio jus
tice to' their mode of reafor.ing. (Jnlefs up
on this, idea more than three fourthaof their
observations were irrelevant to the fubjeft
now before the house. If they dp not con.
tend that peace cannot be obtained by the
present mini ft era, th.it they ought to be dif
niiiTed before any scheme of supply can at
all be a fit fubjedt for difculTion, the great,
er pait of their argument is quite foreign,
to the matter now tinder confidetatlon. The
right honorable gentleman, while heargue*
that my honorable friend (Mr. Dunda»)
considered the majority of the house and his
majesty's miniftsrs as the fame, forgets that
his honorable friend (Mr. Sheridan) when
he talked of our going out of our plaees,
did not address hrofelf to the houie, but
gave it as a very friendly advice, bo doubt,
to us. It was expressed with a
hope that'we would of ourselves abandon
the offices we held as the means of obtaining
peace. Thrhonorable gentleman then must
fettle this inconliflency with his honorable
friend beside him. But before the honora
ble gentlemau, with all his talents, can de
mouitrate the propriety of our dismissal, he
i ought to fliew that the nine persons whom
he proposes to pick up between London and
Windsor, will administer the public affair's
better than those by whom they are now ad
ministered; he must bring forward fomcthing
n)t>rc concluiive and more convincing than
any thing he had to offer,when'the dismissal
of minilters was last dlfcufled, the failure of
which attempt had induced him to quit the
fcrvice of his his despair
of success had led him to abdicate his public
chataftcr. If I understand him right, he
ponliders as preliminary to every m.afure of
public defence, to every exertion in support
u; the war, a radical change is ncceff?ry.
What the right honorable gentleman means
by the preliminary, expressed in a manner
so large and ccir.erebenitvt, in :cr/ns no Ufa
ebfeure than bndenned—whether a parlia
mentary reform is to be only a part of this
sweeping change—how this change of sys
tem is to operate as a means of laving the
country—how th« uulipiited change is to
conduce to the public fafety, in preparing
exertion, and in.repelling danger, I am re
ally at a loss to conceive. In considering
the propriety of such a change of system,
or preliminary to the introduflioii of new
men into office, it certainly will be impor
tant for the house to corifidriy whether inch
a change of miniilers is calculated to secure
us' against the dangers with which >ve are
threatened, whether it is calculated to check
the ambition of the enemy, and to procure
a peace that will fatisfy the honor of the rip
tion, and preserve the sources of the public
wealth :and prosperity. But the honorable
gentleman fays, that the whole tenpr of
our language at the beginning of the pre
fjnt conteil was, that no. peace could be
made with the Jacobin republic# and that
France i 6 thus juftiljed ; n refufiug to
make geayr with theprefent adminiftiation.
At no period of the war did we ever expref* "
fuclv a sentiment, or even entertain the idea
that no peace could be made vith Republi
can prince. I remember the quotation from
Virgil to which he has alluded, and as far
as I can reooHeft, it was used in one »f those
debates in which the right honurable
tleman proposed that overtures (hould be
made for peaie at a period when we conten
ded that no fecurily for peace could be ob
tained, and that the evils of war were not
to be compared to the inadequate peace
which then could have been concluded.'—
The right honourable gentleman then urged
the question, whether no extremity of dan
ger could induce us to make such overtures ?
I then anfwured that this must ever be a
question of eomparifon, that we must decide
as circumstances might ari'fe and at least we
ought to persevere till our means were e*-
haufted, till we could support the contell
no longer, and we could fay, toto certatum
ejl carport regni. The honurable gentleman .
fays, that the meaning of Virgil cannot be
explained away, but he seemed to think
that Virgil's language cannot be improved.
The honourable gentleman urged the pro
priety of making overtures even at that pe
riod and contended, as he often had done,
that if reasonable terms ofpeaee were refu
f«d, it would unite England divide France.
He then ictorted that after such overtures
were rejefted, totu ccrtnndum ejl tarpore reg
nj.
The Honourable iwtr-fiecj
these overtures made and rcjedled; and now
when he wishes to bind me down to the
meaning of Virgil, I think he ought not to
forget his Latin pledge. If the honourable
gentleman hss lcen that all attempts at ne
gociation have been Unavailable, if he can
look to any j n which he is called up
on to fulfil y.{ % pledge; if he (Ticaus to ani
mate the public exertions, to cxh&rt to prr-feveranee, to (liinnlate their xeal f.r the
maintenance of the national honour and the
natjonal fafety, at a moment when these ob
je£ts are thus unequivocally dated, he would
■ot, at he now dot >, attempt to disarm their
courage and to didrad their efforts. What
did the honroable gentleman expeift from
the overture* he proposed? What degree
of insult and contumely did he lay hii ac
count to endme before he nilrouzed to en
ergy and to honour? Did he,expe£t any
thing more insulting than the reception our
overtures had obtained, any thing more rc
pulfive, more haughty, more injurious, than
the proceedings of the enemy? any thing
more decisive of their determined spirit of
hodility. than their refufal to difcufi the
terms we proposed, or to propose any terms
in their turn on which they were willing to
conclude a peace ? If any thing can meet the
Hon. gentleman's ideas of insult fnfficiently
humiliating to require him to ad upon this
pledge, let him look to the negociations at
LiOe, and the conduit of the enemy upon
that occasion. At no period did we fay
tlvrre could be no peace with Republican
France. We said that for peace we would
not agree to prodrate the nation at the feet
of the enemy { that we could not agree to
give up what was tfitntial to the fafety of
the country. If the Hon. Gentleman can
prove that we ha»e applied for peace, dis
owning the juftict of our canfe,abandoning
the principle of which the present fafety and
future prosperity on the country are found
ed, he would prove that we cor.fidtred the
period arrived when every exertion had been
made, and when the druggie was to. be gi
ven up because it could no longer be support
ed—The Hon. Gentleman however, does
not fay that we have aded in this manner.
What, then are the opinions of those who
have uniformly, or tather with growing teal
and devotion have contended that the war
wasjuft on the part of France, and unjufl
upon the other fide of the contest ?—Have
they not repeatedly said on former occasions
that our ordinary resources were exhauded!
tnd.lp day, with mifterious file nee, they
pafa over the fubjedl, and cautiously decline
giving any opinion on the efficacy of former
resources, while they reprobate new expe
dients; and fay nothing as to the propriety
of retorting to the Funding fyllem, while
they condemn the principle of every plan by
which it may be relieved. The Hon. gen
tlemen have said, that our ordinary resour
ces are exhauded, and that no extraordinaty
resources can be emp'oyed. I leave it to
the house then to judge how far those who,
in principle, give the enemy a right to ask
all, who, by decrying our resources, give
them confidence to advance every pretention,
by kindly infuiming them that, from our
inability to resist, that may extort whatever
they demand, are the true friends to their
country, or the enlightened advocates of
peace ?
The change which the Honourable Gen
tleman recommends, I fufped would be to
remove those diilinflions, and to sweep a
way those privileges which have raised the
hatred fend envy of France ; but the Ho
nourable Gentleman contends that the
French would be juftified in refilling to make
peace,becaufe Ireland ii not unanimous ; hut
would behaveconfideredtheMiniftersjuttificd
in refilling to ijinke peace, because La Van
dee was in a state of iufurreflion ? If in his
eyes thi» would he an inefficient reason for
refufing to make peace with Frane', when
nearly one fourth of its inhabitants were
in a Hate of up a holtili:y against the ty
ranny under which they were opprefftd {
will he fay that it is reason for the perfc
vering humility of the enemy, that Ireland
it in a (late of danger, arising from the nt
•cflary exertion of vigour to refill the opera
tion of French principles diffused every
where with tueh afliduity, and in Ireland
with peculiar fucctfs ; circulated with "that
industry which they have ever (hewn to sup
plant, by their defolacing principles of liber
ty,' the real practical bleffingsof the BritiTh
eonditution ?
The Houle divided For the second rea
ding, '. 75 against it, JO.-—Committed for
Monday.
jmi ii if_ 11 rrr 'irnm ~i I ——y— ———
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
MONDAY, FEDRUARY 26.
Mr. Livirgßon preftnted the petition of Han
nibsl W. Dobbin, Dating that he came from
Ireland, to purchase land in the north wcAirn
territory, and praying for attention from the
legislature. Referred to the committee who has
the land bill under consideration.
Mr. Thatcher, from the committee on poft
officei and pod-roads,made a report on the pe
tition of certain deputy pod-maders, who pray
ed that a delaration might be made of the law
refpe&ing their liability for bank notes, &c.
which pafi through their hands. The commit
tee recommend that this fubjeA fiao'„ld be Itft,
for the present, to the deeifion of the courts of
law.—.Ordered to lie on the table.
Mr. D. Foder, from the committee of claims,
made an unfavourable report on the petitions of
Joseph Wall, W. Henderfon, and others, own
ers of bills of credit, commonly called New
Eiriflion Bills. Ihe report was committed to
a committee of the whole-
Mr. Llvingfton, from the committee of com
merce and manufaflurej, ma e an unfavourable
report on the petition of Elifha Gardner, and
others, owners of a schooner at Yarmouth, who
prayed for a remiftion of exceflive duty oecafiou
ed by one of the owners omitting to take a
proper oath.
Also an unfavourable report on the petition of
Nehemiah Some*,of Bolton, who prayed for a
rtmlfEon of duty on a quantity of fait destroyed
by fire.
were concurred in by the house.
Mai krnr, *>r»m the committee to whom was
rrfolutioA proposing that perions
house tor the ptirpofe of reporting
Bs, should he admitted to take their
the bar ofthe house, reported it as
the opinion of theconroittee that tbe resolution
ought to be rijefled. This repnrt was referred
to the committee of the whole to whom ha*
been referred other prbpofitions foe amending*
the finding rules of tie house.
Mr. Harper, iroi* the committee of ways 501!
means, inliru&ed to ffiquire whe'her tr.y, and
if any, what alterations njrefTary in the
a<ft laying a duty on neinces for the (ale of
wines, and f-ret.'n spirit*. by retail repoitcdit
a* their opinion, that it *■•!! not Ue expedient to
make a. y alterations therein at the present
time. —Concurred in.
The fame gent'einan, from fame commit
tee, dated that the committee h .d receive 1 cer
tain information 011 the fuhjeft of the enrriage
duty, which led tlxm to believe an alteration
would be neceflary in that law. This opinion
was founded on a letter from the Supervisor of
S. Carolina- who Dated that one of the collat
ors of hit diflridt, from a failure of due pay
ment, had to ride foity miles to collect
Iwri' dollars ; for 4 which service, according
'o the penalty by law of if per cent, on per
form neglefling to pay tlveirduty at the pro >er
office, he only received half t dollar,and that ex
cept f.ime alteration was made in the law, no
colle&or would hold an office which fubjefled
him to such service. The committee, therefore,
proposed to alter the penalty of a - percent, to
50 percent, and reported the fallowing resolu
tion to the hoi-fc for adoption.
" Refolvcd, that the Committee of Ways
and Means have leave to bring in a bill for
amending the aft for laying a duty on car
riages for the conveyance of persons."
An agreement to this resolution wai ob
jected to, it was observed that the com
mittee of ways and means ought to have
dated the rcafons which induced them to
believe an alteration was neceflary in the
law ; that a single mftance of complaint
was not fufficicnt to induce a change ;that
though in this particular cafe, ihe officer
had to ride forty miles to colleCt the duty
in question, few similar cases could be pro
duced where fnch a jurney would be ne
cessary for the collection of so fmali a sum;
and that it would be imprudent to double
the penalty upon the whole United States,
because of a few cases of this fort.
A motion was firft made to commit thi»
resolution to a committee of the whola,
which was negatived 41 to 3S. The que-
Jion was then taken upon agreeing to the
resolution, and it was negatived 45 to 38'
Mr. N. Smith, from the committee, to
whom it was referred to enquire into the
propriety ofmakingany alteration in the
Insolvent Law, reported ii to be their opin
ion, that the law ought to be so altered and
amended as to extend to persons imprifpn
ed in civil caufei at the suit of the United
Sates. Committed for to-morrow.
Mr. Kittera said, as some inconvenience
had lately been experienced in the examin
ation of witnefles before the house and its
committees he would propose a resolution
in order to remove thia inconvenience in fu
ture. It was to the following effedt :
" Resolved, that a committee he appoin
ted to enquire into the propriety of autho
rising the President of the Senate, [he Spea
ker of the house of Reprefentativea, or the
chairman of a committee of the whole, or the
chairman of a committee of either house, to
adminiftcr an oath or affirmation in any cafe
under inve(ligation, in which an oath or
affirmation may be neceflary, and that they
report by bill or otherwise."
The motion was agreed to, and a com
mittee of three appointed.
Mr. Harper moved that the nnfinifhed
bufinef* be podponcd, in order ♦o take up
the bill proposing an alteration in the law
itnpofing c-rtain (lamp duties, as it was nc
ctlfary to come to an early deeifion upon
that fobjefl, 3 months public notice being
neceflary to be given before the time at
which the law was to take effeft. The
Secretary of the Treasury, he said, was also
at this time, making out inftru&ions for
the supervisors, and waited the passing of
the law in question, beforehecould complete
them. As there had been a proposition for
a repeal of the law referred to the fame
committee of the whole, he supposed it
would be neceflary firft to dispose of that
htfire they could with proptiety go on to
make alterations in the law itfelf. He ho
p«d, therefoie, this bufinefi wonldbe gone
into.
The motion was put and carried ; and
the House acoidingly resolved itfelf into
a committee of the who'c on this fubjett,
Mr. Dent in the chair ; when tile report
of the committee of ways and means on the
petition from citizens of Southampton,
Suflex and Prince George, in Virginia,
who prayed for a repeal of the law, having
been read, which dated, that it would be
inexpedient to repeal the fame,
Mr Harrifon called for the reading of
the petition itfelf ; which was read accor
dingly.
The question was then put, without de
bate, upon agreeing to the report of the
Committee of Ways aDd means, which was
negatived 47 to 37.
Mr. Tillinghast then called for a deeifion
upon the resolution which he proposed for
the adoption of the house, which had also
been referred to the fame Committee of the
whole. It was in the following words :
" Resolved, that a committee be appoin
ted to bring in a bill to repeal the adt for
laying a duty on damped vellum, parch
ment and paper."
The question was taken also, without de
bate and carried 49 to 36.
The committee then rose, and the house
took up the repott. The firft vote was con
curred in, and the Yeas and Naya were cal
led upon the last.
Mr. Harper moved to amend the refolu -
tion, by inserting inflcad of" a committee
be appointed," the comiittce »f wtys and
means be direßeJ, See.—-Agreed.
A debate then ensued, which had not
long been continued, before Mr. Craik mo
ved to postpone the consideration of thii
qyedion till this day three weeks.
This motion occafioncd considerable de-
I bate. It was at length taken by Yeas and
j Nays, as follow:
TEAS.
Meflrs. Allen Mess. Kittera
Baer Lyman
Bartlett Machir
Brookes Matthews
Chapman Morris
Coit Otis
Craik Ifaae Parker
Dana Rtcd
Dent Ru'Jedge
Evans Sewall
A. Potter Sbepard
I). Fuller Sinnickfon
J. Freeman Sitgrearcs
Glen Smith
Goodrich Tlratrher
Gordon Thomas
Grifwold Thompson
Harper Van Alen
Hindman W-i'Jfworth ,
Hofmer J.Williams-^t.
Imlay
NATS. I
MclTri. Baldwin McfT. Hcifter
Bard Holmes
Blount Jones
Brent Liringfton
Bryan Locke
Bullock Lyon
Burgess Maco«
Cabell M'Clenachan
Champlin M'Dovrtll
T. Claiborne Milledge
W. C. Claiborne New
Clay Nichola*
Clopton Skinner
Davis S Smith
Dawfon W. Smith
Elmendorf Sprague
Findley Spring
Fowler Stanford
N. Freeman Sumpter
. Gallatin Tillinghaft
Giles A. Trigg
Gillefpie J- Trigg
Gregg Van Cortlandt
Grove Varnum
Harrifon Venable
Harens R.Williama-5 J.
This motion being negatived, Mr. Al
len moved to adjourn. This motion was'
negatived 49 to 43.
Mr. Gordon then moved to postpone the
consideration of this question till this day
week.
This question was taken by yeas aid nays
and was negatived 4.9 to 44, MefTrs. Bul
lock, Gillefpie, and Grove, who voted in
the negative of the former question for post
ponement, voting in the affirmative of this.
Mr. Sitgi eaves then moved an adjourn
ment, which was negatived* 43 rotes be
ing only in favour of it.
After a few other obfervationi,
Mr. Allen renewed the motion for ad
journment, which was negatived, there be
ing only 30 votes in its favour.
After some other members had risen on
the fnbjeft, the question for adjournment
was azain put and negatived, there being
only 32 votes for it.
Mr. Harper then moved a postponement
till to-morrow, which, after some debate,
was negatived 46 to 4!.
The question was then taken upon agree
ing to the refolutien inftrufling the com
mittee of ways and means to bring in a bill
to repeal th« Stamp Aft, by yeas and nays,
as follow :
T E A S.
MefTrs. Baer McfT. Holmes
Baldwin Jones >
Bard ' Lmiigften
Blount '■>■* \ Locke
Brent 1 • " Lyon
Bryan Macon 4
Burg'efs M'Clenachan
Cabell M'Dowell
Champlin Milledge
T.Claiborne New
w.c - claiborne Nicholas
Ctay Skinner
Clopton S. Smith
Davis W. Smith
Dawfon Sprague
Elmendoif Sprigg
Findley Stanford
Fowler Sumptei
Gallatin Tillinghaft
Giles A. Trigg
Gillefpie J- Trigg
Gregg Van Cortlandt
Grove • Varnum
Harrifon Venable
Havens J. Williams
Heifter R.Williams-52
NATS.
Messrs. Allen McfT. Hofmer
Barilctt Lyman
Brookes Machir
Bullock Morris
Coit Otis
Craik Isaac Parker
Dana Reed
Dent Rutledge
Evans Sewall
A. Foster Shepard
D. Foster Sinnickfon
N. Freeman Sitgreaves
Glen N. Smith
Goodrich Thatcher
Gordon Thomas
Grifwold Thompson
Harper Van Alen
Hindman' Wadfworth-36
The refulution being thus carried, the
house adjourned at a quarter paji Jive o'clock.
The debate will be given to-morrow.
St. Andrews Society.
The quarterly meeting of the St. An
drews Society will be held on Wednesday
evening 28th instant at 7 o'cloek, at Oellers
Hotel. William H. Too, Sec'y.
Feb. 16. mt&w
BALL.
Mr. Byrne's 6th Ball.
WILL be held on Tuefiay next, at
O'Ellers's Hotel—Gentlemens'
tickets at oae dollar, to be had at the hotel,
ladies tickets of Mr. and Mrs. Byrne, No.
114, North Siscth ftreet^
The days of tuition for young Ladies,
assisted by Mrs. Byrne, arc on Tuefdayand
Saturday mornings; in the afternoon of the
fame days for young gentlemen, and Thurs
days and Saturdays for gentlemen.
Feb. 26. d3t.
Hylon 2nd Young Hyson Tea.
a few chests of excellent quality, for fair, cor
ner of Second and Pine ftrcet.o. Die 26—sots
• PHILADELPHIA,
rUESD W FVENIVG, FEBPUAXT 27.
p #
Bv a report innde lo ihe Prelidcnt of the (J*
ntted State, by the Secretary of State, and pub
lifted by order aftne Hoafe of ReprefentJtives
it appears—that the cases of fifty-ffeven vtfTcli,
referred to Sir William Scort, the Kin#* advo
cate general, and Dodor John Nicholl the ad
▼ocare retained on the part of the United States,
had been determined by those gentlemen, ad
vantageoufly -to the claimants. i>ie fuins a
warded *cre paid on the iJrh last fuly, and a
meunt to. Nut £3;,418-1 11 ftrr. The re
port fun her Rates, that of fifteen causes, in
wjych on the 19th July last (the date ofir.e lat
e!l communication upon the fubjed) relation
had been decreed by the board of Co«ntnii!ion
ers app inted to carry into cfTedt the 7th article
of the treaty orf am ty, commerce, and naviga
tion wick Great-Britain, eleven had been paid,
, amounting to £31,744-10-4 i-s fter : So thai
the whole amount paid i»)CsS»i6 •12-31-4.—r
The Secretary com !ude§ his letter in the follow
ing words: It is proper to add, that in a letter
from the American commiffioncri, dated the
29th July, 1797, they iVtimate, that K u except
some more cases of capture, under the orders of
17^5,f0r taking veieis loaded with provisions,
there is very little profpeft of any other be.ng
in a state to come before the coa.miflioners,
till the term of 18 months, from the commence
ment of their builnefs, (hall have expired. Eve
ry■ caufc, in which the partirt were furni/hed
with the neceflTiry evidence, hid" been decided ;
and they truiled, that almoit every principle of
importance, or liable to contcft, had been fet
tled and determined, until the question ftionld
be agitated, if any should ever be of their
right to judge on cases not decided by the com
miffioneri of appeal, after the said term of 18
months is elapsed "
" The department of state is not in poflcflion
of documents fram which any tolerably accurate
or ccmprel.enOve ftatcment can be made of the
decisions, decreeing restitution, or reversing sen
tences of condemnation, which have actually
taken pi ce in the high court of admiralty and
court of appeals in prize caufej : but owing to
the multiplicity of bufineft, which, in time of
war, accumulates upon them, and to the fm*ill
space of time a! otted for the fittings Jof the lat
ter, there is reason to believe that no great dis
patch has been given to the decifien of the Ame
rican causes depending therein. Document
[D. j contains such as have been exafled from
the imperfedt paper®, with which the depart
ment of state is furnifhed in relati n to that
fuhje<9. TIMOTHY PICKETING.
Department of State, >
February 16th, 1797.)
£D.]
1. Th« bark Apollo, T. Folger, master, belong
ing to Oliver and Thompson, of Baltimore, was
captured by the Sally and Dragon privateer*, and
adjudged at Jamaica ; the sentence of condemna
tion was reversed in the court of appeals.
2. The brigantina Bacchus, R. Rohbins, belong
ing to Oliver and Thompson, of Baltimore, was
captured on the 17th of December, 1793,, by the
Mar* privateer, and adjudged at Jamaica—The
fentehce of condemnation was revcrfed in the court
of appeals.
3.; The schooner Betsey, J Betferton, matter,
belonging to Reed and Ford, of Philadelphia, was
captured on the acth August, 1794, by the Expe
riment privateer, and adjudged at Bermuda; the
sentence of condemnation wis reversed, with cods
and damage*, by the ccurt of appeals.
4- Ihe Ihip Columbia, Wm. Maley, matter,
belonging t» Bohl Boh 1 en, and others, of Philadel
phia, wm captured in January, 1794, bytheVnl
ture and- Higator privateers and adjudged in the
high court of admiralty ; the vessel and cargo
wart reilorcd. and the question of coftsand dama
ges waved. 1
5. Ihe Cleopatra, F. Donavan, aafler, was
captured by his Britannic majefly's (hip Cullode ti ,
the sentence and condea;nation was in salvage
revcrfed in the court of appeals.
6. Thafcboancr, D«ve, M. Jhrke-, maftor,he
longing t® Mr. and .others, of H»hiiad«l
phia, was captured on the 30th of OAcber, 1704,
by a licrmudiau privateer, and aijudged at Tor
tola ; the sentence of condemnation was reversed,
and further proof was ordered in the high court
of appeals.
7. The Eagle, H Manning, ftiaftcr, belonging
to
his Britannic n»»j<ilyVftip Hcmione, rnd adjudg
ed at Jamaica ; the fcnti-nce of condonation was
reversed in the court of appaals, but without costs
or damages.
8. The Fair Lady, R. Lijlihridge, matter, be
longing to Dutilh and Wach'wuth, of Philadel
phia, was captured on the sth of Septe" ber,
by the Hope privateer, and adjudged at
Bermuda; the sentence of condemnation was ra
verftd, and further proof ordered in the court o!
appeals.
9. The brig Harriet, O. Calder, nearer, belong
ing to Abraham Safporca% of Charleston, WaV
captured on the oth of May, 1793, by'he Mary
privatetr, and adjudged at Jamaica; thefenteuct
of condemnation was revcrfed, and further prooi
ordered in the conrt cf appeals.
'O. The schooner Hptty. I*. Boyl, belonging to
P. Simen and. T. Carrier, of Baltimore, was cup
tured on.the 26th of June, 1793, by the Five Bro
thers and John privateers, and adjudged at New-
Providence ; bimen's property couderaned, and
further proof o:dered of Carrier's in the court, of
appeals.
11. The Hannah, John Cox, maftcr, belonging
to S L. Efpinc Sc. Co. of New-Yo: k, was captur
ed by the Little Ann privateer, and adjudged at
Jamaica; the sentence of condemnation was re
versed, and further proof ordered in the court of
appeals.
12. The Hannah, B. Rice, mailer, belonging to
James Tifdale, of Boftf n, was captured by theGip
fey privateer, and adjudged ; the fentsnce of con
demnation was reversed in th. court of appeals,
but without cofls or damages.
IJ. The Brigantine Mary. M. Pearfon, mafler,
belonging to Jcffph farter, of Newbury port, was
captured on the 4ih of July, 1793, by rhe Mafy
privateer, and adjudged in the high court of ad~
miralty ; the vcffcl was ref:ored with freight, and
the cargo condemned, but no appeal by the agent.
14. The Maryland. J.Strsn, master, belonging
to Stewart and Plunker, of Baltimore, waa cap
tured by the Prince of Wales privateer, and ad
judged ac Monfcrrat; tlie sentence of condemna
tion was reversed in the court of appeals, and the
question of coftj and damagesreferyed.
15. The Ofpray,B. Paddock, befongingto Wni.
Rotch, and oh ;i, of Nantucket, \*as captured
hy his Britannic majefly's Ihip Spitfire, and adjudg
ed in the high court of admiralty ; the fecterce,
condemning the entifeftiip and cargd. reversed ic
the court'of appeals, and the part belonging to
Samuel Redman, and the crew reserved.
16 The brigantine; Pomona, J. Crockru, be
longing'to Bohl Bchlcn, and others, of Philadel
phia, was captured in ;he year 1795. and adjudged
at Bermuda j the car b o was raftered in the high
court of admiralty.
17. The Ihip R fingSun, D. Oloey, belonging
toßiown, Bcnfon. aad Ires>, of Proviiecee, was
captured «ke of September u 1793, Wy the
Vulture privateer, and adjudged in th< high court
of admiralty ; the goods were restored in the court
of appeal«, but without costs or damages.
ifj The flo.p <al!y, Mjv«. k-!nn(nrg ta Th««
ma> Fifzfina.ti'. of Phi'ad "Vhil, « e.ptiifVtt tk#
4*h of Var-Ti. bj *f,e Bri .'inia
•nil a ! at Bcrmiti j the frnt- n e of son*
p-mn 'ion v» rcvrrfrd in the court of appeals,
but «*i ho«t c«A. or J » •
T'i. The''.""P** l e i?sTom-, H. ma^rr,
h-loojjinp 10 jnhrofe Vafl". o Phita el- hk, vu
e ptorrd or ;h?, io-b of OflobtT 1794 bj tij
Duke of Yerk-privat er, »■ d adjudged at Bermu
da ; ihe (Vntcnce of eondrmnit on wm re* rf-il
iu the court afappcali. and arthai proo. (Ifdared,
Cotrparinp Barhe'l counter-fta'ement
with theitticle in thia Gazette of Situr*
day, under the title of the Triumph of Or
der, it appears that the variation* art of
trifling- importance. The information wii
receired through channel# which were fqp
pofed authentic j and if ihere were crrori
they principally arose from confounding
some recent tranfaftions wi:h othefs which
took place lalt Autumn. Intentional dccqa»
tion, on the part of the Editor, never difV
graced the pages of this Gazette—but if
falfehood would enfnre a nichf in the tempi®
of isfamy, it is not a solitary opinion that;
the £d\tor of the Aurora has a claim fa*
perior to every campetitor in the UnitfS
State*.
JOCKF.YISM.
Year after year the peal it 1 unp.
From many a patriot'a brazen tongue#
That public debts are public curses,
Oi any other thing thai worse is—
A fink patronsreand power, ,
Which thjratrns freedom tea devonrp—
Thus far they go before the wind ;
3ut mark what follows ciufe behind ;
T!ie debts are f >r» a grievous evil,
But then to fay them the devil 1
For tho' they hellow e'er so loud,
To catch the u itad'ring, gaping crosd,
Aoil (l«rm, and rage, and f«a:>., and sweat,
They never mean to »_»v the debt.
Hence if you Ihoald but chance to tell Vtn
To la/ a tax ou Stamped Vellum,
Or any fitter means and ways
Whiah might the public tredirralfe,
The/ fav, an<t inliamljr they swear it.
That their conftitutnti will not bear it.
Deb-j ol all forta—*« mean to flay them,
Wi'l] make them, but will never pay thena.
In the article signed Civis, puhlifhcd in
yesterday's Gaxette, last paragraph, fccqnd
line for experiwee, read " expedience."
GAZETTE MARINE lIS 7,
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA,
ARRIVED.
Ship Ariel, Tarris, Havre, via New-York
Brig Flora, Stevens, W. Indies, do,
Florida, Hoare, St. Jago de Cub#
Hannah, Hammond, North Carolina
Swcdifh Barque Aparenfon, Danbury,
Leghorn
Schr. Hannah, M'Leod, Cape Francoit
Millay, Wilson, Georgetown
Sloop Brilliant, Watson, ViiginU
Sally, Johnson, Do.
Diana. Pearfon, Virginia
Ship Star, Woodman, London, via
New-Yotfc
Snow Maria, Baily, . Copenhagen
Brig Fair American, Smith, St. JagodeCub*
Schr. Neptune, Foster, New-YorJt
Betsey, Barnett, do.
Charlotte, Kitchum, do.
SAILED.
Ship Columbus, Rockwell, Hamburgh
Thomas Chalkley, Clark, SutrixaiQ
South-Carolina, Garman, Charleston
Henrietta, Robertfon, New-Yorls
Woodrop Sims, Hodgfon Canton
Neptune, Jeffries Eatavia
Farmer, MPCollom »»Amfterdan»
Swift Packet, Grikben Savannah
Sally, Gel ft on Jamaica
Brig Susannah, Hunt C. Francoit
Fame, Knox St. Croix
Liberty, Duer St. Bartholomew*
Welcome Return, Vanneman J*remi«
Sally, Yeardfly P. au-Prince
Johanna, Thicflcn Bfe: en
Schr. Sincerity, Monteatli La Gi 'ra
Harmony, Rhodes Curi:.co*
Fancy, Pointer N. Providence
Patriot, Hammet Wilmington D,
Harriot, Springer N. York
■«TCT—- I I u isiipws——mmmwommmmmm
NEW-THEATRb:.
On WFI NESD vY. F.venmg, F»bruary aB,
Will be KTefented 'heCoMFD? of
THE JEW.
With the Comic OpSia of
Peeping Torn of Coventry.
Pe p.'ng Tom, (vv tli the song of the Little Fsr*
thn £ Rulh L ; ht) Mr. Harwood, (being hit
firfk appear :nce in
£s* The doors will be opened at baif past
five, and the performance begin at half pall si*
prccifely.
S A L T. ~
3500 to 4000 buiEels of large
grained SALT,
From St. Martin'* on board the Spy, at th«
Still Ploufe wharf—for file by
Stephen Ki :^fton,
46, VV*m®t Street.
SAip SHIP
Will fail in a few days
Georgia —Fcr reigh t
or passage apply as aLove, or to thft
! Captai ou board.
Februarys 7 •ewty
A Gardener wanted,
TO move to the Di'-riA of Columbia, whd
his bMfinef- w U, to ®ereron#
t'ncouragtmenr will be given Application irTift
Ibe made immtdiately, at N'o 5, South fourth-
to GEORGE WALKER.
Ftb a;. *3t
For Sa'r,
A good situation for a Country Seat*
FOR V acres of 1 ,nd on 'he Old York Road,
withi.; fight of Germantown and ahqut fiv« mile*
fr«m the City, the whole bein«» ut'dcr good fence,
atid in excellent order aspaPure gr oao.
For fui ther information and terms, apply to
Jonn Elliott Ciu sew at hit office for tbi
!a!« of Real EDates, Conveyancing, &c. No. <4 #
Hi|h*flreet. 4 "
ad mo. aawfwJUST RRCEIVED,
and roa sale, at
VV. Young's Book-store, {'
Corner and Second ftre«ts, p
( Print 50 Cents)
Ca«fes qui fe font oppofce* aux ~
Pro ret du commerce, entrc LA FRANCE ft les
ETATS-UNIS de L" AMERtQtJE.
Aree le, Moyera de l'accelerer ; c
Et la comparaifon de la Dttte Nationale r (
Ac l'Angleterre, «le la France, amd des <
ETA r rS-UNIS. }
In fix Let tret, addreffoea a Monfteur le Mar- e
quis »i la Traduit fur le Ma- |
aufcrit Anglais du Colonel SWAN, ancien '
Meniere de la Ligiflature de la Ripablique c
du Maffachuflet. <
Le Cumm.rci eft la portion la plus impartante des '
(Richeflcs Nationales. '
—l.eTrident de Neptune, eft le sceptre du Monde, j
Lkmisrk.
Or caules that kave been appofed to the i
PROGRESS of COMMERCE hotween |
tRANCE and the VNITID STATES tf AMERICA. <
With the means of accelerating it;
And a coniparifon of the National Debts
of England, Fronts, and America.
In Six letters, directed to the Marquis
BE LA FAYITTI.
Trantated (into French from the original Eug '
IHh Manukri t of Col. 3wan, formerly a Mem
bcr of the Legiiature of Maflachufetts.
Commerce it» the most important portion of the <
Wealth of Nations. ,
The f riAeat Ncptuae is the Sceptre of s
Ae world. Lemier*.
AT a 'juncture wken the qucftion of
a Commercial Treaty -with France may soon
become ao oljcA of difcuflion, a workof this kind
becomes extremely vfctul to those eitiaens of the
United States, who may be defirons to enable them
fctves to view this fubje&, under its various af
pedb ; and they will have the fatisfadion to be
furniflied with the necessary data, to judge of the
•fefulnefsof this tranfadion.
This work is principally distinguished by the
sichnefsof the obftrva' ions, the pcrfpieuity of tho
ijlcas, and the mcdefty of the theory which 2t
contains. At Pars, a man of wit ©bferved, that
this work was like a rich farmer's barn, heaped up
to the very roof with nfeful produce. Il is addrcf
fed to the unfortunate La Fatetti, in letters,
which fugitive fo r m, the author who could only
devote a few weeks to this occupation, wai obliged
to adopt. Although circumflancis are in many
refpe&s different at the present day, from what
ihcy were in the year 1790, when these letters
were written, ytt it may be justly ftid,that so ma
ny absolute and permanent data still remain, lhaf
she judtcWs reader will not appreciate the work
less on that acoount ; on the contrary, m many of
the alterations, which have been ma Je, are the re
sult of the author's remarks, it will lerve to con
vince him that in all tranfc&ions, between free
nations, cv»?ry thing maybe expelled from the ef
forts of truth and just ice.
LETTER I.
General of the obstacles, crtatcd in France,
to pi event the extension ot commerce, with the
United Stat s—Obfrrvations made in a tour, taken
lor th »t express purpose, upon fomc French manu
fa£hir<*t (a precious fragment this). Examination
and refutation of the prejudices erifting in France,
against the quality of certain produAions of the
United States, and against the advantages of their
importation—Demonltrataon of the bad policy cf
laying duties on their importation, principally on
provisions in genend, and oa fait provisions, and
filh in pa titular—Conddcrations on the regulations
of the French custom-houses.
LETTER 11.
Obilacks to the exteofion of trade with France,
. proceeding from circumstances and individuals in
the United States— Proofs thai these ohftacles are
only temporary and will be removed (they have
beVn removed) by time and the wifdomof govern
ment —HiAory ef the influence of the American
paper money—lmportant j rinciples and ab(lra&
confederations on money and circulation—Causes
of the 11 agnation of American trade, after the
peace —Critical examination of French im
ported into America, and extraordinary condu<st
of the French merchants —Effctfls of good com
mercial laws; and patriotic wifheson this fubjed—
Observations on money, weights and mcafures.
LETTER HI.
EfTayin thefoim < f > to appraise the im
poitations into the United France and tn£-
Uud un ted. The author examines at each article,
whether it can be better furniOicd from France or
England—lt is principally on this fubjeft (which
would have artoniftied a meie theorist) that the author
appears to evince great commercial expeiience. These
kin'l of tableau*, uulmkily as difficult to obtain as
thry are mUch to be desired, ire the only sure guides <
the llatcfman can take for th policy of treaties de
prived of which he is continually deceiving.or decei
ved. We cannot too much admire the appan nt ex
aftnefs of colonel Swsn's calculations ; -»nd al, hough
the properties of Lord Sheffield b»ve already been
enniradioed by experience, and by feverai able pens,
yet it is curious to fee the author of the prelent work,
dispute with him the only grou* d on which he has
tiot been hitheito attacked, by proving that France,
order the required condition, will be better able
than Great Britain to supply us with fevoral articles,
which the English author al.ots exclusively and forev
er to the latter; the author's f*t tia/ity ajfcfl m [if he
has einy) does n»t appear to have at any time created
e partiality ojjudgment. The result of this calculation
is 1 hat in «709» ai •« a y» ita period when arts
and manulrtftures did not preftnt iu France the v ill
niraus and probability of cxtei f»on which they now
poir.fs. that even in 1789, it \*as presumable, that
Fiance would not onlv have th melli.s to supply one
half of anv given quanti;y of the produ&ions of Franc:
and . ngland united, but slfd to enter into competition
with G>C a> Britain (or the remainder, in proportion
to the witdom of her government, and the indudry
of her inhabitants-
LETTER IV.
Csleulation of the exportations of the United States,
and particular examination of their fuiiablcnefs to
France; this is qae rrafon why, notwithflanding the
Excellent work of Mr. Tench Coxe, Mr. Swan's /a
bieau is by no fupei iluous . the principle of the
advantages which wuuid result to France from the
importation f provisions and raw materials, is every
where applied ; and it is upon this argument, that
the author establishes his demands to the FPfcuch go
vernment, for the limited admi&on of the produc
tions of his country into France
LETTER V.
Tableau, of the debt of the United States at that
time—Opinions of the author on the finances, on the
efFc&sof national debt, on circulation, See. as more
amply detailed in his National Arithmetic printed at
Bolton in the year 1786 ; the whole calculated to
ftrengthen'in France, ihepubl c and private credit
of the United States —the happy condition 6f Ameri
ca, and the mifene,» anting from the public debt in
Europe, arc coot sited in the ablest manner, and un
der the raoft Unking telaiiens, by very cu ious csl
culations —Observations on the wisdom and economy
which preside over the public ex pen I'cs in Maflachu
fetts. In this place the patriotism dt the author ap
pears, with all the elevation which a just national
pride inlpircs. The ancient governments of Europe,
lays he, will learn from us the art of economy in
recompensing the feivices which the country receives;
Among ft us it tvill Je seen, that men are chojen for places,
and 9* places for men. letter co. clud< s with a
general view of the public property, deposited in the
hands of the government of the United States.
LETTER VI
General examination of the defefts of the commer
cial policy of Franci wi h refpeft to the United States ;
many of tliefe observations have produced the effctts
for which they »were intended, othcis still remain,
pointing out the reforms to be made in future, as a
QO jd chd/t marks tbe fhoalt and rocks, The au'.ho.
concludes Hi# wo'k, by fixing hi* attention on hit
country, and the great mm who have rendered it il
luftrtou*; and we lake a picture in qnoting what he
(iyi of the present chief ot - our To ■
pr«i f e a man when he e«ercifes a diihnguifhed em '
ployment, it common, and mi > be taken for flattery ;
but whilst he it in private life, it is the homage ot I
(vtcerity. c
Note, page 316 of the work, 1
* Let habitant des ttats-unis, fuivant dam leur
choix le l«en public, 6c excites par un principe de
recoonortfTatice, choilirent M. John Adams pour vice- (
president du nouveau congres. Ses efforts, pour pre- j
server le peuple des intrigues formces par le gouv-
fruement Anglais contre fa liberie, le rendi'ent tret-
fufpett a ceu< qui etoient en pouvoir. Le peuple,
convaiacM de son merite, le choifit pour un de fes
reprefentm.s dans le premier congres. De ce noinbrs
etoit aulh M. Samuel Adams, patriote aufli intrepide, j
qu'infatigable La revolution Atnerioaine doit beau- 1
coup ala perseverance de fes travaux, & a fes talens «
diftinges. Crux que M. John Adams a developpet J
dans le traite de paix, qui t'eft fait a Paris en 1783,
ont prouve qu'il etoit miniftre aufli habile que gr*«d (
politique. Et dans son ouvrage fur la defease de la (
constitution Americaine, il a montae toutes les can- •
noilfances q»i forment les vrais jurifconfultes St les
hommesde toi; connoiffances ntcelfaires, pourrem
plir honorablcment les fon&iona de president du fenlt
des Etats-unis.
H 0 T I C E.
A ManufaSory of yellow and delft ware % .
Such as never was in this Country before, has been
been lately ere&ed at Tivoli, Red Hook Landing,
on the fcaft Bank of Hudson's River, lla'.e of New-
York, where any article of various forrs ar.d Ihapcs
may be executed, as well as earthern (loves upon a
new conAiu&ion, that saves three fourths of the fuel
commonly afed in cast iron (loves or open chvmnies ;
they are betides very wholesome and ornamental, by
applying to
J. MOUCHET,
Wanted a fkillful hand to attend to the baking and
glazing part of the laid ware. Generous appoint,
ments will be given. Apply as above, or to
DAVID BROOKS, Esq.
No. 71 South sth Street.
Feb. 19. eod4w
To Be Sold,
AGREEABLY to the lajl will and tefUment of
William H» ysham, deceaCed, and pofTef
fion givnn immediately, a valuable property in Arch
street, between Third and Fourth ftrcets, consist- j
ingof thehoufe, No. 107, with the lot en which
it is ere&ed, a stable, and other improvements.—
Thehoufe is to feci front, and contains ten good
apartments. The lot%i>f the fame bretdth as'the
houfcand *O9 £ect deep, with a well of water and
a very capacious walled cistern, both, with pumps
in goep repair. The stable stands on the rear of
the lot and will accommodate four horse* and a car
riage. This property enjoys the perpetual privilege
of a 16 feet court andan alley, 8 feet wide,cxt©iid
irg to Cherry Street. I?s central petition and the
advantages it poflfelTe* with refped to free ventila
tion, renders it well worthy the attention of any
person wishing to poflefsan eligible property in Phi
ladelphia,
For further particulars enquire at No €f, Vine
Jfcreet—of
Robert Hkysham,
or > A&ing Estotftors.
Fraitcis Bovis Sayr*, j
January II §
NOTICE.
ALL p»rfon» who have any demands against
the estate ef Willam Fleewtood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
eeafed, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly atteded ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, arc desired to make immediate
i payment, to
GpO. DOBSON, \ ,
No. is, So. Third-street. J r
, January 4. dtf
| To be fold,
AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SKAT, contain- |
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two j
1 story brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, See. situate on the Irilh trad lane, in the
1 townlhip of Moyamenfing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for taftc and
. elegance, (land unrivalled.
December I- dtf
New-fork) January 24, 17985
! PROPOSALS
By Arondt Van Hook,
, Proprietor of the Reading Room ;
r For PubHftiing by Subscription,
: .An Appeal to Impartial Posterity,
, By Madame Roland ;
Wife of the Minister of the Interior in France.
CONDITIONS.
These scarce and very valuable Historical Me
-1 moirs, (which ran through two London *di
-1 tions in a few months,) will be comprised in a
' vols. o<Slav», of 400 pages each,
j They will be printed on fine paper and a new
, type, and delivered to Subscribers, neatly bound
e and letteied, at I dollar and 50 cents per vol
ii one --one third of the Subscription money tebe
- paid on delivery of the firft volume—the re
c maindcr when the work iscompleat.
■* To Printers, Bnokfeliers, and etbert, who
n acquire Subscriptions, the mfual allowance will
I be made- *
fpr Subscriptions arc taken at the Readinj
t Room, No. 149, Water street—the Printing
c Office, 149, Pearl-ftreet —and at the different
; Hook Mores in New-York- Also, by William
n Young, corner cf Second and Chefnut street, >nd
II the Editor of the Gazette of the United States,
y Philadelphia.
As soon as a fufficient number of Subscribers
are obtained, the work will be put to press, aad
q compleated with the utmost dispatch.
e Feb. 10. eodtm
PROPOSALS,
y FOR PRINTING tY SUBSCRIPTION,
. A NEW AND fNTEHESTING WORK, XNTITLBD,
A TREATISE
ON THE POLICE OF LONDON,
Containing a detail of the various crimes and mif
»t demeanors, by which public and private proper*
e ty, are, at present, injured and endangered :
c And suggesting remedies for their prevention.
11 1Y A MAGISTRATE,
j t AAing for the counties of Middlesex, Surry, Kent,
■ [m aud Essex ; for the city and liberty of Wcftmin
n Iter ; and for the liberty of the Tower of Lon-
Z don -
I- CONDITIONS,
y This work will be printed in a targe o<ftavo, on
1- mi excellent Engliih paper—lt will be delivered to
>- fubferibers, bcunU in boards, at the moderate price
ef One Dollar and a half; although the lall London
r » edition, oa inferior paper and meanly bound, h
11 now fold at ♦wo dollars and a half. Tonon-fub
• fcrlbers the price will be raise j.
* Vattever encouragement may be given by fub
c feription, it will he committed to the press without
delay ; and, birring accidents, will be roady for
publication early in April. .
Subscriptions will be thankfully received at
. Benjamin GaviesVs bock-floie, No 68, High
j -lTreef, and by mott-of ths other bookfcllers jp. the
f cirv ; by George Hill, in Baltimore; and by Sam
a uel Campbell, and A. Drurcmond, m New-Yerk.
January %u aawtA
PROPOSALS, «
BY THI
Insurance Company of North America.
Per Insurance again (It Fiat, on Dwelling*
Houfts, Ware-Houfcs, and other Buildings (and J
o« Goods contained in foch Building*) diftai* from 1
Philadelphia, in the United States.
I. Common lufurancei, o* hazard? of the firft I
elafs, will be undertaken at a premium of ahout •
half per cent, per annum. For extra hazardous <
rifques a larger pr<*n inm will be required, which <
will vaiy according to circnmftance*, seldom ex- <
eeeding one per cent, per anruro ; but in some in
ftar.ee®. where the property irfmed is not only in 1
itfeif extra hazardous, but rendfred dill more so t
by the vicinity of extra hazardous buildings and i
occupations, the premium demanded will be raifcd <
according to circumstances- t
Hoifes and Ware Hcufes, the walls and parti j
tions of wfcich are wholly of stone or brick, wall
cuiiftru&ed, so as to b* guarded at well as may be
against fires from within, andiree from extra ha- (
sardeus buildings and ©cccupatioirs in their neigh
borhood, will be deemed of the firft
class, and may be insured to their full value.
Also Goods and Merchandize, not o r an extra
hazardous kind, in calks, bales, or packages de
pofi?ed in such buildings, to an zraouitt rot ex
ceeding 4000 dollars ; but if more than thisium
| is require J to.be infurcd in one tenement, an addi
tional premium will be required, in proportion to
1 circumstances.
11. Insurances will also be made on buildings and
; goods extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to the rifquc. But it js not easy to arrange these
under particular heads or classes, so as to deferibe
rach with the necessary accuracy. Each caf- must
therefore be decided upon according to the circum
flancesattending it ; and these circumftanees wili,
in general, appear from the description accompa
uy;ng tte application.
Buddings partly conftru&ed ©f brick or stone,
are preferable to those wholly wooden. And in
both cases, the stile of building, how they are oc
cupied, how they are situated, the neighboring
buildings, and how c ccupied, are considerations to
be taken into vIEVv. And with refyeit t« goods,
their tend«ncy, whether from their nature, or
from the manner in which they are exposed, c ther
to commence or to increafc an accidental fire, and
their Jiability in such state to receive damage by
wet, or by sudden andhafly removal, or to be sto
len in time of confafion and hurry, are all cir
cumstances ef weight ; and the premiums mud be
proportioned accordingly.
111. The following conditioot are to be under
flood by the parties .
xft. The lnfurance is net binding till the ftipu
lated premium be paid ; but it (hall be deemed ef
fectual from the time of such payment and accep
tance thereof, whether the policy be immediately
fjgned or not.
2d. Infurancs »3y be renewed at the expira
tion of the term of the policy, without further ex
pense* than the payment of the premium of the re
newed term, the t ircumftancs cf>nrinuing the fame
as they were nnderftood by the lufunrs at the time
theiormcr insurance was ma 'e ; hut the paymtnt
•f thf ; rfcmium is eflential to such renewal ; and
if the party i fured fuffers any time to elapfc after
the expintion of the former insurance, before he
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
during such time ; nor can the insurance be renew
ed on the former policy but by computing the
comm nccment of the renewal from the expiration
of the former insurance. The fubjeil of insur
ance may neverthelcfs be open to treaty for a new
insurance.
3d. If any other insurance be mat'eon the fame
property ; it mud be made known at the t/me of
application, other wife the policy made on fush ap
plication will be void.
4th Goods held in trust, or on eonCgnment.
may be infurcd as such in a fcparate policy ; but
they are not to be cor.fidered as insured etherwife.
sth* This company will not be liable or accoun
tably for any loss or damage occafioncd by any for
eign invafien, or by any military or ufarped force,
or by rcafon of any £*vil commotion ; or occafton
ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or other thing of the
ftke kind kept in the building, or amongst the pro
perty insured.
6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu
| rities, Title Deeds, Money, Bank and other pro
missory Notes, are not included in any insurance ;
nor are paintings, medals, jewels, gems, antique
[ curiofitics, or mirrors exceeding the value of twen
ty-five dollars each, to be considered as insured un
less particularly mentioned and by fpocial agi ce
ment.
! Jth. No insurance will be made for a fcorter
term than one year, nor for a longer term than fe
vem years. Persons choosing to infore for seven
years shall be allowed one year's 'premium by way
of difeount: O-ne third ot a years premium (hall
be abated in like manner on an insurance for
t three years.
Bth. Lo(T*s fuftaincd by fire ea property insured,
(hall be paid in thirty days after due prouf and li
quidation thereof, without dedu&ion.
A defeription of the property to be insured will
be expe&ed with each application, to be made by
■ a matter carpenter and signed by him, as well as
1 by the owner of the building or applicant for in
surance, and attefled before a Notary or principal
' Magistrate, who will certify his knowleige of the
I parties and their credibility.
* With refpedt to House j and other Buildings,
xft. The fitc and pofiticn ; dcfcribing the
street or road on or near which the building
stands ; its contiguity to water, and other cir
j cumftances relative to the extinguishment of fire
in cafe of accident; and .particularly whether
any and what fire companies are eflahlifhed, and
engines provided,in the place or neighbou hood.
ad. The materials of which it 13 huilt, whe
ther of brick, fjoneor wcod, and what part of
! each, as well as to the eu:fide walls as inside or
partition walls, and their reljc&Lae height and
' tbieknefs; the style of thereof and of what
materials ; how secured by battlements or par-
J ty.walls; what kind ef access to the top of the
house and to the chimnies 1 whether any and
what ele&ric rods ; the number and kind of
fire places ; and the kind of deposit for ashes.
3d. The dimensions of the buihiing and how
divided, and the style in which it is finifhed so
as to enable indifferent persons to judge in what
, manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury ; the «ge and condition of the building,
and how occupied, whether merely as a dwel
* ling house, or for any other, and for what pur
- pose , also aa eflimate of the value of the houle
or build ng independent of the ground.
4th. The situation with reQ»ed to other build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at least one hundred feet
> each way : what kind of buildings are within
' that distance, how built, of what materials,and
" how occupied or improved, whether as dwel
lings for private families or otherwise : Whe
ther any and what trade or manufactory is car
-1 ried on, and particularly whether there be any
3 extra hazardous articles used, or usually depo
c Cited in the house, or within the distance afore
-1 said, and of what kind.
s in lioufes, Warehouses, Ac.
1. A peneral description of the building in
which they are kept will be expe&ed, similar in
* all refpe<f!s, as to the danger from fire, with that
required for Infuranae on the buildings them
fclves.
2. A description of the kinds and nature of
the goods, whether in calks or other packages,
or opened ; and whether displayed in whole
■ pieces or in the usual form for retailing. And
if the goods vary materially in kind, a general
eflimate of the value of each kind proposed to
be iafured ; but itt the LA piitic-u»ar mmute-1
nef* of defcrip * n is not expc«Sted. 1 /
3. Articles of the following kinds sre deem- j
ed extra hazardous, though in various degrees,
in whatever building thty may be placed, viz. J
pitch, tar, turpentine, tol»n, wax, tallow, oil,
inflammable spirits, sulphur, hemp, flax, cotton,
dry goods of an inflammable kind opened.——
CI lis china wire or porcelain* especially un
packed; Looking glafles, jtweleryl and alio
flier articles inori than commonly inflammable,
or n ore than commonly liable to injury by lud
den removal or by rnoifturei, or particularly u
obnoxious t* theft on in alarm of fire. J
Letters post paid, dire&ed to the Secretary o. t
the Board of Direaqrs, will be duly attended t
to. An order for Insurance accompanied by the 1
means of paying the premium, will be imme- F
diatety executed on the premium being pai 1. If
iKe application contain aa enquiry ouly, it will
be answered.
Bv order of the Beard,
EBENEZEK HAZARD, See'rj. J
Ojfice of the Insurance Company of North ) f
America ; PbiUd. Feb. X, 1798* 5 1 1
Feb. 14- i f
James C. & Samuel W. l iiher. <
JT THE.'/f STORE,
N0.E13, corner of Arch and Front (Ireet. j
HAFE FOR SALE, _ : l
Cotton and worlted Hosiery in trunks,aflered y
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannel : .
Di'to futty romali Handkerchiais {
Di:to Fuilicat silk ditto s
Ditte Pondicherry and Madrafs ditto I
Ditto Gurr-ahs «
Bengal black TafFcties 1
4000 pieces Nankcenl, and ;
Few cheßs belt Hyson Tea I
jflfi— 1500 boxes best London Window Glass, ,
from Bby 6, to 19 by 14 —and 15 hhds. Glass j
Ware afTorted, which they will difpofc of cheaper ,
than any in the city. ]
Nov 18 3tawtf 1
ROSS & 9IMSON,
HATS >Ol SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in tags and boxes
Jamaica, }
St. Vincents, > RWM.
y - and B< «gal j
300 calks RICE, and
A parcel of ship building RED CEDAR.
Q<:\ 17. }
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. O M. De La GRANGE,
No. 1 ir Walnut'ftreet,
INFORMS thofi; who wi(h to recur to th * only
means of becoming perfed in the French Lan
guage, that he has just opened hi* Library, con
lifting of upwards of 1500 volumes, the best cal
culated to afford either ufcfui inftru&ion, or plea
sure. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, nny be seen at every book-feller's
in town.
n. b. All translations from and inte the French,
English and Spanilh Languages, execurea withao
curacy and difpajch. coim nov. 15^
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS- GROOMBRIDGE with muoli ple»f
ureand returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
she has received during four years residence in
Philadelphia; and allures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, (he has ma ie a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars. —Every kranch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended by Mrs.
Groombridge and mailers excelling in rtieir
refpe&ive profeflioni.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Street*.
June sth, 1797. Jimftf
The fitwation is perfe£Hy healthy : and made
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the house.
FOR SALE, at
Wm. Young's Book Store,
Ne. 52, Second street, the cerner ofChefnut street.
REPORT ef the Committee of the House of
Representatives of the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
against VfILI.HM BLOUNT, a Senator of the
. United States, impeached of high crimes and niif
( demeanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of
r the House of Representatives, authorising the said
j Committee to fit during the recess of Congress, and
. them " to enquire, and, by all lawful
" means, todifcever the whole nature and ext. Nt
" of the offence whereof the said William Biount
' " stands impeache. , and who are the partie* and
" affociateslherein " ✓
j Printed by order of the House of Reprefentati'vev
December 2© $
- School Books and' Stationary.
W. YOUNG,
No. Second-street, corn&r of Chefnut-flreet, 1
HAS now ready for sale, a very large aflort
ment of French, Latin and Greek
» SCHOOL BOOKS. Alf*, such elementary books
on Science, as are generally read in the academies
: and college*throughout the United States.
r LATELY PUBLISHED,
I Sheridan's Di<stionary, the sixth edition, in one
• Urge vol. 8 ve. price 3 dols.
Ditto, large 12 mo price 1 del. 75 ets.
f Ditto, common, price 1 <dol. jocts.
r All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
1 v/Hting Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Pasteboards,
t flieathing and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
- blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, ef
. the best quality, used in the counting house, or
j public office.
f Catalogues of a mifceUaneous colle&ion of
BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
v by inquiring as above. OA. 24. —3aw6w
t Yellow Fever and Pestilential
Diseases.
' THIS DAY IS PUD.'HHED in one vol. ofUvo.
By William Young, Bookfcller,
e No. 52, Second street, the corner of Chefnut street,
(Price y in boards I % Cents J
. Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
r Pap-r,
A VIEW
J Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles eflahlifhed in the elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN, M. D.
y With an attempt to corre& some important er
. rors of that work, and cases in illuflration, chief
. 'ly fele&ed from the records of their pra&icr, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br IVilliam Tatrs Ci* Chas. Maclean•
1 To which is subjoined, a Treatise on the a>slion
1 of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
t tion for the cure of dUrafes of indirect debility.
- Andadiflertation onthe sources of
Peftilentialdifeafes; in whichisattemptedtoprove
f by a numerous indu»slion of fa»Os, that they ne-,
, ver arlle from contagion, but are always produ
r ced by < ertain dates, or certain vicifiitude« of
1 the atmosphere, by Ch4R>LBS Maclean, of
I Cslcutba.
> nov. ai. Jut
PtOfOSALS for
A new Commercial Work in the City of
Philadelphia, to be entitled
The Philadelphia Pi ice -Current,
AND
Nautical Rectrdtr.
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE Subscriber having been engjfc
cd in carrying on a publication in Boftj
under the title of the "« Mtf.on frict Current, a-*i
Marine Intelligencer a work, for utility and rx
tent of circulation, equal perhaps to any publica
tion of the kind io Europe or America, is now
induced to rifquean attempt to pnbliih a similar
paper under the patronage of the citizens of Phi
ladelphia. He nukes rhe attempt from a pcriua-
Hon that a publication for general benefit, and ex*
tensive information, will receive as much support
from the liberal minds of the merchants and other*
of this city, asnlacesof less opulence ia the Un
ited State*— ami although little immediate benefit
should refuk to the citizens irom such a publica
tion, yet it might prevent an idea abroad which
fotr.e have induilrioufly oirculatcd, that the trade
of this crtenfiv • city was on the decline, andcon
•ra&ed into so narrow a sphere that it would not
Support a Price Cnrrent.
general anxiety that prevail? in the com
mercial world at this critical period, renders a.
work of the kind particularly ufeful and neceffirjr
—Nor can the utility be doubted, when ij is
lidered how extenflve the trade and particularly
the infuntnee are affe&ed in this city.—A tareful
publication of the failing and arrival of vessels io
j different parts of the world—advice from vessels
at fca—accidentshajfpeningin and out of port,—
l are ever circumftanccs that ought to be known by
the merchant and underwriter, alid one informal
tion of this kind may save mere than the cost of a
hundred papers through life. The F,ditor engag
es to use his utmost endeavors to make it honora
ble and profitable to himfelf, sensible that it caO
, be done only by making it acceptable to his patrons#
j Thi«publication will contain, a general Price Cur
rent ofallarticles of imports toir3cexportation, with
the duties on importation, in this City, New-York
and Boston—Foreign Price Currents, in general;
to obtain which the various European publication#
will be procured, particularly thofc of London,
Liverpool, Bristol-, Hamburgh, &c.— all arrivals
and clearances in the principal ports in America,
and article cf naurical information which
can in any manner be uftful or interefling to mer
chants in general It will iikewife contain I'ricss
of St«cks in the different parts of the United States,
corre<sled by eminent Brokers—Custom house inh
portations—Laws, Arrets and Decrees ol commer
cial tendency, &c. &c.
CONaiTIONS.
ift. To be printed with a new type, on good paper
of a large crown size, and contain 4 pages folio.
*d. It wiil be publiftied twice a week, and deliv
ered to fubferibers in the city early on the morn
ing? of publication, and forwarded to tliofe out
of the city with the greatest expedition and care,
jd. The price will be four dollars per annum ; pay
able, one dollar on s he delivery of the firft
number ; one dollar at the expiration of three
month*, and th residue at the end of the year.
4th. Subfcribcss for the work in any othar plaoc
than the city, to pay one half years fubfeription
money.
sth. The work to begin as soon a« five hundred
fubferibers arc procured, of which notice will
be given.
gjr Subfcriptton papers will be plactd ia the
various public offices, &c. and fen! in the courfc of
the week, to the citizens in general, for their pat
ronage. JOSEPH N. RUSSELL.
February 10. tuf&mn
Recently Publijhed,
And just imported from England, by William
Griffiths, No. 177, South Second street, and
may be had of Mokc >n }. Rh£Es,
A Cheap and valuable work, in two closely
printed volumes .in Bvo. (price 3 dollars^
Illustrations of Prophecy :
In which arc elucidated many pred :61 ions, which
occur in lfaiah, Daniel, the writings of the Evan
gelists, and book ol Revelation ; which are tho't
to ioretell among oth*r great events, a revolution
in France, favorable to the interests of mankind,
the overthrow of the papal power and of ecclesi
astical tyranny, the downfall of civil despotism,
and the iubfequent Melioration of the flats of the
world : together with
A large cdllcftion of Ext rafts,
Interfperfcd through the work, and taken from
numerous particularly from
I Joseph Mcde, Sir lfaac Newton,
[ Vitringa, Mr. William Lowth,
[ Dr. Th. Goodwin, Flemiug,
Dr. Heriiy More, Bengelius #
Dr. John Owen, Daubuz,
I Dr. CrciTener, Whitby, *
Peter Jurieu, J owman,
x Brcnius, Rifhop Newton, and
Bifliop Chandler, Bishop Hurd.
By JOSEPH LOMAS TOWERS.
Besides various other inquiries treated of io
this work, and'numcrous illustrations of prophecy ;
it cont-ain6 a considerable number of fads or ob
» fcrvations on the symbolic language of prophecy,
the authen icity, uses, and obfeurity of the apo
' calypfe, and the genuinenefc of the Hebrew pro
s phet*; on the rapid corruption of christianity in
* the fourth century ; on the difpertion and restora
tion of the Jews, the hillory of the faUje Mefliahs
who have appeared among them, and the rsafons
e in support of the conje&ure that th® Afghans arc
the dsfcendants of the tsn tribes ; on the right of
refiflar.ee to opprefion; on the irrifptions of the
northern nations, and the causes of the dec-line and
' fall of the Roman empire; on the euflonas of the
'» Tartars, and the independence of the Arabs $ on
'» the conquefVs of thole nations, and thofeof the
1 Turks ;on the ufurpationof the Mamalukes, and
r the palk history and prefeut state of Egypton
the chara&er andcondud of Conftantine Juitioi
f n, Clovis, and Lewis XIV ;on the scarcity of
J books in the dark ages, and the causes of the de»
clint of literature ; on ihe rapid rift of the French
monarchy, and the causes of its fall j on the in*
[ confiftcncics in the political charaflers of bishop*
Newton and Hurd ; on the peculiarities of Dr.
Th Burnet's theory of the earth ; on the beuvficial
l# cffe&s which ehriftianity has produced in favor of
learning and civil liberty, ana its tendency to pro*
mote the eftablifhmcnt of equal governments,
' ludependent of the large proportion of original
j matter contained in these volumes, those who are
Intcrelled in the fubjed will, it isp. efumed, wish
to peruse or consult them, because the extracts in
troduced ia them, which are accurately cited, and
marked with inverted commas, are taken from a
greater number of writer# on the prophecies (»!
5 Uaft if the roman catholic commentators be ex
cluded) than arc easily acceflible to any one indivi
dual even in Europe, or are probably to be found
- in any one library in the world They are Inr
- niflied with indexes, and a copious table of eon
t tent*. jan 1 r—lawjw
Wanted, to Hire,
J \ Large and converieot HOUSE, tanaVf£ar
l\. the centre of tie city—for which|| to tht?
rent will be given; to be for a nott»
more for a longer term. Inquire of the /
oa. 17. c
1 FQJi SALRi ' •
■ Several fonts of Types—half worn.
f Including Lorg Primer, a out 400 weight, in
f g**c.d cradition, and would ai fwer the furpofe of
a country Print« r as well at tew.
linquu-c of tiie Printer.