/ V I
Philadelphia
By John Ward Fen no, N°* il9 Chefr.ut Street.
JSUMBM 19°9']
j-vThe Subscribers to this Ga- Pu,
zette at Germantown, to whom, pHA
(owing to recent disastrous events) snt) , th(
their papers may not be particularly n« h «,
will befurnifced with them £■*
on application at the Poit-Ofnce, m „ Und
Germantown, whither an extra *«b.
number, ter that purpose, wdl con
stantly be sent. 8,44
.- 50
Remote Sublcribers for this Ga
ette are requeftcd to forward pr. post,
:he arrearages due from them refpedhve- 3>o
V Post matters who may have recetv- »
-fubferiptions are earnestly dehred to 7)9
■ei ' ■ - fame. At this interesting and i*,B
dift' ' crilis, attention to this notice 3l>^
will ' irly oblige th.c Editor. 33>7
_____ JL _ • . 33,7
"'Pdst-office. l'<
Philadelphia, September 26. 8, :
j,5l . > r Nev-Caftle, Caul well bridge,
tk, Frederica, Mils r'l,
i n and Delaware;
Snowbill, Maryland, Horn Town,
jma'it court house, a«<i Northampton court
jfr, Virginia ; wit! bt c : ofed at this office ev- 1
«ry Mo .i' ay, Wednefnay indPriday at half pall 3
A. M. nm!! ift cUy of April,
I,<; 9' ROBERT PATTON. '
September 26 < dm
Bank oflbe United States. 3
Philadelphia. September 21, 17 yS. 2
The public is hereby informed, that ift
an Office ol DepQiit and Dilc aunt will be opened equ ,ij
on Monday next, at tha hsufc lately occupied by (
Saudu Richaroit, near the Market House in (■ < , a | T o|
Gcrmarit own—where the bufiivfsof this Infiitu- jj te
tion will be tranfailed during the continuance o. P
the malignant fevrrnovv prevailing in Philadelphia.
HENRY KUKL, AJijiant Cajhier. t ,J p "
wcttnuer a a d <jeteri
Bank of Pennsylvania. when
THE Bank of Pennsylvania is removal toGer- full p
roantoKWi, —where the bsfiwefs will be traufafled | equal,
to-morrow, in the Union School Houfc. cOfif<-
JONATHAN SMITH, Cafliier. tern f
September 4 § made
'Wanted to pur chafe. ths ™
APPROVED bills on A mfterdam, for whxh
cafli will be gi en at the rate of thirty fe- wil , ir
ven cents per Gn Mer* Apply to the CaGiier of - cr
the Bank of the United States. , 0 th(
Sept- verbid. t-?X. cr£( j;
~~~~ ior Saie.
kindi
TIHE Subscriber. intending to decline tne
' DRUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the
hole Stock of third
'rugs and Medicines, Instruments, &- pu U
The (hop is eleirant, commodious, aai' falbu- any 1
•lv known Tor the extenSve fcnlinefs c'.onc in the fl-.JI
iolcraie anTretnnrillle i Ui«- »>»"" \ ll '
in the city, being at the coiner of Walnut and 4£
Second iVrcets. The whole, or any part of the j ßtn
Stock, will be fold, a, will be£l fujt the purchaser. p ro p
Tha terms may beknown, by a-pplymg so t ' ne
james moore, jun. ( the
Wio has For
lor the river trade—
The Peggy, about 30 tons burthen,
Mulberry and RedCed r frame, and n m rkubly
stout, ot an easy draught ef water, r.ggmg iu
good order. ..
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
•well.tnd in complete order forthe lumber tufincfs.
All pcrfons indebted to the .ate firm 6
GMthnait V Baldwin, IV. B GolMivaH, Goh
tb-wait ts" Mure, or the fubferi' er, are earneitly
requeftcd to make speedy payaicut to
JAMES MOORE, jon.
a«gnst 3
Ship y Insurance Broker,
THE SuMcribrr, enco-.iraged by the advice
of his friends,offers liis fervici to the pu »
lie as a Ship and i.nl'urance Bioker. Hs pro
poses to buy aod fell veflels and every re-
Uting thereto—assist matters of veflels and others
in entering arj clearing at the Cufiom iloule,
procuring and thipping freight, lettung
ante and all other mercantile accounts, and have
en hand the ntceflirv Blanks and Stamps.
Papers in foreign languages translated, ana
information given in general mercantile matter,?
—From a knowledge gained by long experience
of every Ixranth ot hufincls he hopes to
ful to those who please to favor hi.n with th.tr
commands. S.4MUEL EMERT.
Philadelphia, august 14th, ?
City CommilTioners' Ottice,
A'JGUST 30, 1798.
IN putCuince of an ordinance of the Seteft and
Common Councils, pitied t he aid day of Mr>y
J798,
Proposals in will be received by the City
Comn.i(fio»ers tor one month from the firft of S-p
tember next, fox letting to rent o« leases for one
year, to commence the tirft day of Janoajy ftext,
tha following public property cf the city—
The wharf acd landing oa Vine street, o
Also 011 Saffafras, n
Mulbcrrry, li
And High fireets. b
Chefnut and Walnut llreets, Draw bridge, witl
the Scale and Fish Spruce, Pin« wud Cedar
Hree's.
The Cellar under the City Hall.
The Tavern at the middle ferry 011 Schuylkill,
•with the lots contiguous thereto (except so much
a* ftitU be occupied by any buildings erec
ted for the use of the Coik&or of the 1 oils, or be
©eceffary for the toil gates )
A dated meetnTi> of rhe City Commissioners will ,
%e held at the City Tuefday mprning rt
ten o'clock, during the present epidemic, eoim
TO BE LET,
And immediate possession given ; '
A Large convenient, well finilhed house, No
1»5 High-Sreet, lately occupied by Doc
tor Wiltar, with Coach Uouf.- and Stab'.ss
inquire of SHEAFF>
A«! 68} High-Jireet.
July ,1 §
/ •/
PHILADELPHIA: TUESDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 30, C79S. \ 'Volume XIV.
Public Notice is hereby Given,
rHAT PrOfiofals und«r fealsdcovtrs, will b« "
reueived on ihe behalf of the United States
' sntil the twentieth day of Otlob'" next, by Jo- As mil
nathan Jackson, Esq. at P. iSt .n, i 'airacbufctts, "!*'•
t Tench Francis, Si'ij. l J Pennlylra- t'.-t uj
ilia, and John Swann, Esq. at Baltimore. 11a
-1 ryland, far sup-plying the to" ow i°g articles of
l cioathing, for the army of the United States, V V
viz. where
FOR INFANTRY. 5 d o "i
„ ~ InaTr
8,448 Hats, G f jjy,
534 Scijeant Coats mist t0
504 ditto vrfli cases, i
1,008 pairs do. woollen overalls infallib
' i,ocß ditto do. linen ditto invcrtte
5,016 ditio (hirts 10-w k»
164 Musicians coats p"f«n. t,
7,680 Privates coates tici and
0 7>944 ditto veils and the,
J 15,888 ditto woollen overalls is like*
ij,BBB ditto linen ditto andmc
C 3t>776 ditto (hrts well as
33.791 Socks '^ e
- 33,711 pairs of ihoes J '
8,448 flocks«f black leather »VV
8,448 ftoi k c asps Mai, y f
«.44» £*„,
l' ; FOR CAVALRY. | atteile
! 6 coats gina.li;
n' a 6 Serjeant coats f"", 1
rt ditto veils b P kl
v . 104 ditto (hirts prcj-.a
,ft 348 Privates coats "
'I. 354 ditto vefis ; A)
1416 ditto foirts ° fol ,
760 pair of Leather breeches wiii p
760 pair of ltack'.ngs ha) . d ;
_ 760 pair of scoots long, t
380 Stocks of black leather poric<
fg. 380 Stock clafpi . rhr in
If . 3SO Blwnketj. . nicate
1 ifl. article shall be ma,.. . material*, N.
equally good, and in form, or fathion, conloriit- derm
1 abUr to patterns for the fame, legled with the 1 day.
111 ftal of the Wai-Office, aud whifh will be de- Mfc
U " posited with tbe several gentlemen, empawcred this ci
to receive the piopofals, as above mentio»ed. i
ad. Sworn liifpeftois fnall be appointed on by cei
the part of the United States, to examine and PonJn
dctermiec upon the several articles aforelaid, the ia
when tbe larae (hall be ready f«r delivery, with :llc n
:r . full power to rejeft every article, wfeicMtiaU net
xd | equal, in goodneli of matsrials, or to be made 01 ''
conformably to, tlie falhion of the Uandarc! pat
tern for the sams; and no allowance fliall be
made, for any article whish shall be rejeiled by
them, for the causes aforelaid.
■ , jd. The proposals muftfpecify the number of
P articles, and their kinds, which tike party is
willing to furnifn, together with, the lowest
° prices for immediate payment in money, »«d al
io the prices, on the loßgeft terra, or terms of Mi
_ credit. wour:
One third of each, and every as the several tion,
kinds of the abov« articles, to be delivered on an:
the fifteenth day of December, one third ou
the fifteenth day of January, and the remaining
third on the firit day of March next; and the q
public will not be confiilered as bound to receive
Bci- any of the aforelaid articles ofclosthinf, which dJ'
the fl-, jl not be ready for InliiaAieii. »r- ,Hil
"-rtt ifiTpmoSs agreed upon. Ct
aad The cioathing aforefsid will be received
t ' lc in trie fr*eral states, at the pUces, and in the
f er - proportions following, viz. One third part of Sir,
the whole at Springfield, Maflachulett.', one
other third at Philadelphia, ftateef PenuJylva- bore
nia, or at LamUerton, state of N'ew-Jerfev, and fpitt
ons third at Baltimore, Maryland. cioli
sth. No oontraifl will be made, for a less to b
number of each of the afoiefiid articles of ing
cioathing, than is requisite for a company, viz_ nels
FOR THE CAVALRY. g"
'- n » 4 Serjeant Coats fcoi
4 ditto veils ous
S 16 ditto (hirts I b]
, I Musician Coat 1 b<
ails Privatscoats ■- har
inefs. 59 ditto velis inti
mel 136 ditto (hirts wh
Gab- 63 ftoeks it i
leftly stock clasps the
126 pair of leather breaches
n6 pair of ftackings
§ 116 ]sair of boots i
blankets
, FOR THE INFANTRY.
70' Hats P£
P u > " 4 Serjeant coats
P ro " 4 d tto veils hc
rc " 8 ditto woollen overaHs
'thers g ditto linen ditto
°" le > 16 ditto (hirts e
' n ' ur " i Musicians coats ' r
have Private coats
66 ditto vests
» a 13a ditto woolen overalls,,
attei.s t ditto linen ditto.
rience s),i r t 9 -f "
0 ule " aBo pair of Socks
thj 'tr 180 pair of Shoes,
• jo Stocks, p
y 70 Stock Clasps,
' _ 70 Bhn!vCts " JAMES M'HENXY, w
ft and Secretary of W*r. £
: Mr.y War Department, \
aitt Sept. 1798. S
le City —— —— ■ _ r
if Sep Weft-Indian from Madeira.
or one
1 KJ* Those Gentlemen who have Wines *
on board the Well-Indian are informed (he is n
now dil'charging at South-flreet Wharf, are so- u
United to hallen down their permits, the Vellel
being immediately wanted, Peter Blight.
■■ Who wants to Purchase, r
1 r ICO Barrels cf gcod Pciroe or Mess.Bees 3
100 ditto Pork 1
uylkill, 7 <>' 800 ditto fine Flour
o much 4or SCOO bufnels Indian Corn.
5s erec- L A N D I N G
'< or bc From the West Indian,
~1 A choice parcel of Pheifs old particular
ictswi Wme in Pipes fit for Immediate use.
coim augu.t 1 j y
0- Wanted—Afituationin aPub
?n lie or Merchants Office, or to go as Supercargo,
use No by a peifon regularly brought up to the Mer
iv Doc- cantile and infuranne business in London, he has
,132 lately been a voyage from her.ee to the Weft-In
dies as Supercargo, •can be -.veil r.-commendcd,
'lreet- -—Please to enquire a: the PriuUr s
augnft 11
HsIPPT DISCOVERT. a
A certain Cure for that a Iteming and dreadful Dif order ,
s The Yellow Fever, A i
As tie!! as any ether dingstovs purid fever fever and I
, ague, and other inveterate and complicated dif cases, by ve^
the use of t£g uD evc
' POUDIIE UNiQUE,
t TTTELb known and patented in England, France,
», W Poland, ai:»J all the capital cities iu Europe, j ia u
wh-re the most aflnpiftiing cure? have been effect- Jan jnr
ed on persons judged ißcnrabfe by all physician». . u , '
In aTrcatife printed in London, on the properties
of thi» powder, by T. Seymour, M. D. late Che
mid to his Majefiy, there are iiated two hundred €oni 'jJ
cases, where this moll valuable remedy has proved e j 0
infallible, in all kind of fevers, pleurisy, bloody flux, f r^nt f
inverate rheutnaiifms, sciatica, apoplexy y pat alyjie, yet- » /
lota jaundice, ringworm, Worms u> children and in grown fi °
perfon.t, whites, chronical bead and flumacb aches, hepa- rtj OC j g a
tick and nepbretical or stone choiic, the kings evil, scurvy
and the mof inveterate and complicated venereal d'tfeafe. k n C j cnt
is likewise the best preparative for *.h«s I mall pox b u j>ji n
aadmcafles; oi the great eft utility for young as j arr , c
well as for elder ladies at the criticil epoch of their .
life. The efficacy of this powder in leveral of the
above diseases has been dilcovered by chance, and
so it has been in the yellow fever year, by Mr.
Mahy, who cured several by admmifteriii# only uri( j c J. (
tivo of the said powders, and loft not a (ingle pa- r j
tient which he undertook to cure, as proved and ni3 j n( i {
atterted by the here annexed hofe ori- w
ginal W)ay be fecn.at Andrew Hadfegs umbrella fbcj>, fprinj*!
K r t. 131, corner of Chef nut and Fourth Jireets, the Oil- eRf
ly' place where these powders are to b« had, with 'l
proper diredions for the use of them. —Price two j lav - kJ j r
dollars. dated
The ufefulnef* and certainty of thi? remedy be- j lor r es
ing so great for so many dangerous disorders, any f
pcrfon wifaing to be provided with those powders, ce i len J
will please to apply very soon, as the quantity at
hand is rot very larje, and it i« doubtful if for a , .
. * iii ana, <
long-time, or it ever any either genuine will be im
ported, ,the f.icret remaining only in the hands of (
the inventor, in ITißopc, r.ntS - - vor ' rwriM- j. om
nicated to, or iii*covrred by any ofh<;r perion.
N. B in the yellow aiwj putrid Severs, thispow
!li - der must be taken thu lecond, or at baft the third v
be i £l ' l s'' ™
le- 'Jfe the fubferibers, durirg the late fickncf, in
cd ti»is city, having taken the yellow fevar, applied to
. . Vlr. i.sbhy foi his medical aiSilance, we do here- |
on by certiiy, that by a certain powder, cal'ed the '
r.d Pondrt Unique, w« ware yerfioliy recovered from y.
iJ ( the said fatal fickoefs, and from an experience of
the happy «fTcof th« above raoft valuable medi-
10t cine, cunfidar it our duty to make the fame known,
iC j c for the bene6t of ear fellow citizens.
Margaret Jones, TTI
Mylus O'Connor, W
, he Jrf'« Turner, **
b y Etriften Rebecca Dow, " f'
nf 'I* 1 "™ Aj>ple ' their'
01 Ann Grovcr,
is Willia.u Bills,
'eft David Williams, carpenler, ,
al- William T Dorialdfon, mai-maker. w 0
of Mr. Mahy's well known Plaifter, for all kind cf r "^''
wounds and fores, to be had at the above direc- (
:ral tion, No. 131, Qhcfnut ftraet.
on angust 8 aawtf n
ou
ing ANOTHER STRONG PROOF
Of the great and unparalleled cfficay of
Jch Dr. CHURCHY COUGH D^dv.
Coughs, Colds, Asthmas i 5 Consumptions. ~
ved New-York, July 10, 1758.
the To Dr. Chuuch, rr
t of Sir, 1.
one For upwards of Twelve Tears, I have la f ma )
lva- bor»;d under a severe Cough, Ihorthefs of breath am j
and spitting of matter from my lungs and often of furtl
clotted olood, till at Length I was so reduced as a<
less to be unable to walk acroft my room, and o»-
s of ing to the vi Lence of my cough .mi the flio. t- rO
viz nels of breatk cogld get no relt <liy Qr night.—
Hearing of voi:r cxcnlent medicina, ,tlu.* ,,
Drops, I procured a bottle ; I tool: a dose as 1
scon as I got it, froai which I found iajlantane-
ous relief, and by continuing it for three days, ,
I blcfs God lam rettored t'o perfect health. As £
I believe you to have been the laflrumertt in the j
hands of Providence, of laving ray life, J mult j
intreat you to publi(h this f*r the banefit of iiny (
who may be iu my fitu&tion, as lam eohnticiit j
it is one of the best medicines in the world for ]
thole complaiius..
I nm, Sir, jou r grateful servvut' | t
NICHOLAS ST4GG,
Little Robinson-street• r
CHURCH'S COITGII DROPS, |
Are prepared and fold by tl:elnven:oi sud sole I k
proprietor, Dr CHURCH, at his Difp«nf»ry,
Washington-street, New-York, and at hi; of
fice, No 1, South Third-street, Philadelphia, I
and fold by appointment at Mr Wcedman'e 118 j
William-street, and Stilwell Deforeft, 162 I
Pearl-street, New-York. Mancius, Albany,
Price, Baltimore, Thomas, Alexandria, Wil- I
son, Wilmington, &c. &c,
O B S £ R r E,
As a counterfeit preparation of this medicine I
has been iiid«ftrioufly circulate"! through feme I
of the principal cities in the Cfnited States, per- 1 Cc
sons are requested t'j purchafethem of ,such per- j
sons only as have Dr Church's appointnjent for j
vending the fame. Powers, i'oughkeepfic— I
Chappel, Head of Elk —Bond and Co. New- I
caftle —HeinitSi, Lam after—BlauveH, Brunf
»y wick (N.J.) Gordon, Trenton, 3tc.
VV»r *** Patients letters (Toft. paid) addrcGed to ]
Dr Church, New-York, duly attended to.
august io iaw 3 w
r£L j Public Notice is Hereby Given,
"PURSUANT to the 3(51 of Congress, palled j
Fon the 12th day of June 1798, entitled, r
Win " «an ail refpefling Loan Office and final fettle*
I fee is ment cert ;Ccates, Indents tf interest, and the
are so- un f un <j e d or rejillered debt credited in the (
1 Vessel books «f the Treasury." h,
'S ht ■ 1 ft. That on the application of the creditors o
rafpeittively, or their legal attornies at any time
eef after the I aft day of December ir. the present ,
year, the princi «l sums »f the unfunded or re- -
giftered debt of the United States credited on
the baoka of the treaf'iry, or commissioners of 1-
Irfjans will be reimbursed at the treasury of the .
l/nited States.
2d. That interest upon the unfunded or re
ticular g;fl crc( j debts iforetaid will cease from and as- I t
ter the last day of December in the present year. 1
V lot 3d. That the creditors refpe&ively will be I ]
entitled on requisition to receive from the pro
aPllb- per officers of th« treasury, certificates'of fund
evcirro <d three per cent ftotk, equal to the arrearages
he Mer- of Interest due oa the debts aforeiaid prior to
i, he has the firft day of January, one thonfand levtn hun- j
»Veft-Tn- aid ninety one. 1
■nended B J order of the Bonril of Comm:ffiorurs
maU ' ' of the Sinking Fund, \
Edw.ird Jones, scc'ry.
* FORSALE,
f SALISBURY.
and well Improved farm, pontaiß
u?war^s tweiity five hundr d of lc i o t
- vel fertile land, remarkably wei' adapt* -i" '
7 and every kind of grai*; there ate 4 .iow ooa faun- \. ilUai
dred acres o! Timotjwf mea<ioJf t pn it t Amia!)
exccJJvd, from which,* 1 haVe ctftthis year between quested
one huiidrcd and eighty, and two hundred tons o! fible, t
?' hay; upwards of three hundred acres mora of tl.is order tl
land may be converted into meadow, equal to that ant j reJ
1 already made, thtf greater part of which may be j j lea
" watered at a fniall expcr.cc. t here are on this g Q
f, land, a commodious two story dwclliug houle, conven
', completely finifhed, with ten rooms and a pdT.igc, w jjj j se
eight of the rooms have fire places; a portico in pe( j; t ; o ,
*' front, fifty feet in length, and eight wide; a large
paled garden, a well of excellent Water in the yard t _
"" also a barn feveuty-two feet Uy twenty-fix, with 111
(beds at the tides and ends fufficient to hold (ixty t [ le ft,.,
heap of black cattle, a well conlti uded liable, fui- ColleAi
ficient to hold twenty horses; with every other en(
x building that may be convenient or ufefel for a mi )- c t
" family; upwards of thre;hundred apple trees bonds f
,' r (just beginning to bear) ot cholen gralted fruit, Qn ,^ u .
1 1 with a r.unitecr of cherry, pear, quince, and dame- . o<j 0
j foo irses, up-ai ds ot two thousand bearing peach ——-
, r ' trees. About one lourth of ths land iscleareo, and I
under good fence'; thj yadure laiuis are well taken, and ro
with red cl»»er and other valuable grass. .he re
n. mainder is in woods and generally well ' imbered. cj
"* The whole fs well watered, havin- several constant *
'P' springs ; ard two streams running through differ
"J er.r purt? thereof, on one of then" is a 1n.,a1l couc.- French
1 try griit mill, and a saw mill. The purchaser can atternp
w " have immediate poffeflion, and may be acc >mmo
dated with twenty valuable field negroes, with >n Coi
' e " horses, black cattle, (heep, hogs, and every necef- sent ye
h - 1 ' fary farming utensil. Salilbury is situated in tx- tativw
' rs, cellent neighbourhood, and remarkable kcalthy,
at is twenty-fix miles by from .^lexan
r a dria, about twenty milesjrom Potomaek bridge at
m ", the Little Falls, a»d not more tha# twenty-five
°- from th« city of Watbitwtou, and ou tW 'ft ro H |\!
m liom Alexandria to Winchefler. A fiv.,.,1 part ol
the parchafe iaonS«, will ba-requircd in hand; oHe, or | r j,
j two, and three years credit will be given for the
1 remainder. u c ,
Mr. Zaccheus Collins of Philadelphia will give t jj ls ca
i m any gentlemen who apply to him an account of the
' to situation ofthi, plaes. For further particulars ap- s »'.
r .°" ply tw the fubferiber on the premises.
:hc SAMUEL LOVE.
°"f Virginia, Fairfax county JA'
" September »4, 1798' l;lt ' xJ
vn", ' advlrtisemeS" t\ I P r i val
9tat«i
inche
WHF-REAS Jamks Cumming ts" Co. late ot born
the city of Philadelphia, mirtbants, have t0 t p,,
assigned over all their eftefls, real, personal and re (' K v
mixed, to the iubferibers, for tt-« benefit ol al! W Q) ,
their creditors, who stall fubferibe the fald alugn
ment within fix months from the date hereof. ■ v
NOVICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, toallDeifon J [he a
who are indebted to the said estate, that they are
r ,' f required to make immediate payment of their rel- f} (
c peilive accounts, to the Assignees, at their office. ■
rcc " No. 6a, Dock street, in failure whereof adion
, will b» inilituted for the recovery of iuch debts as 1 V
are not discharged accordingly. JL^
John Travis, ~~j
John Waddington, / Affi
James Taylor, ( anar
- ' XTyi nxtixr* Comegys J _— oa 3
august 18 .- - rm> ton
s! TO BB SOLD, ta 'v
THE time of an indented Dutch Servant BOY tar t
who has ten years to serve. He has had the Rsw
e ' a small pox and measles, is aftive, hearty and q^
eath am j si c f or h ou se Work in town or country. For
it of further information, esquire ef the printer.
>d as august 4 *
r For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub- B
fcribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
JU '=" 195 caQts of nails aflTorted g uc
eas ao b.ilee ef fail canvass, from No. Ito S
l ane " 5 3 casks yellow ochre Oyi
«y 9 ' 1 5 tierces bottled porter, 6to 14 doz. each w - ( .
London particular ) Mtde j ra Wines But
India narket ) All
, mu " Teneriffb do. in hojjQieads and pip in t
, an y Oil Port do. in hhds. and
ItLrit Empty CUri t buttles and
* or 6 c;!"es of Ginybanis, Dimities, MuUinetJ &.C.
alTorted for the Weft-India market tbc
/, 10, and 9 inch cablesand lo coilsof cordage roll
' Writing iiates, ink (lands and prclfes oth
set. s o puncheons Jamaica rum to
I bale seaming twine do:
d (ole 160 bundles sheathing paper _J
Ifacy, Nicklin & Griffith.
ipbt ' f ' rf .
Bengal Goods, wa
CONSISTING OF
VVil- BANDANNA HANDKEU.CHIEFS, th<
Chintz Coffas Mabuiazgungy
Chintz Quzzinas Tookereys
dieine Eliabad Baftas Wrought Muslins
f om « Long Drawers
i oer- Caarte Sugars in bags, fit for the European maihets J
b . ALSO, -r
ff r * Carolina lidigo
° n r _ Coffee in hogsheads w
Vt C A few pipes of very old ind very choice Madeira
Mew- r \VISF.
Brunl- for Sale, en reasonable terms, by
John Craig, '
• t0 No. ia, Dock-ltreet. J '
°- july 14 raW,tf y<
V 3 w J ' _
: N n T I- C E.
iven, Bank of North America, 1
P iire f
?r 11 1 ' r VHOSK Perfur.s who luve N«rcsoi Bills.to pay
'ett'e- at th ; s gjplt are i n f,,rmed,
nd tne That regular Notices will be put under a sealed
the c*ver dircAed to the refpeftive payer and lodged
in the Foft-Office every Monday until the return,
-editors 0 f the citi*ns. .
nytime RICHARD IVELLS, Cq/i.*s:\
present aug . » 9 dtl _
ked 'ou ~~ SOUTHWARK.
jb'ers of 1- OOoler 8, 1798.
of ti>e ! T>UBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY
Yf GIVEN, That the Commissioners of *
and as- the Diftri& of Smithwark have removed
;n* year, their Hall to the usual place, commonly
will be known by tbe name ot James Litle's School,
the pro- House, in consequence ef the rapid decline
as fund- t j ie £pid em ic Fever, especially in the
rsarages T hereof
prior to Bv order of the Board of Cortimijioner
ven hun- W LINN A RD, PrcGdcnt.
itrs j Attest,
Fund, J William Pbkroje, Ckrlt, prv tern,
c'ry. OcV ber 9
CUSTOM HOUSE,
Ch-Jler, ii<! Q3*
■ notics:
To the MERCHANTS of Philadelphia.
The owner. - Ly the
William Ptnu, Philadelphia, Jane, K'..igtipn<
>t Amiable and other veflels lately arrived, art re
n quelled to forward to this Office as soon u jk>l
- fible, their entiiro and invoices, in
14 order that permits for landing may be prepared,
c and ready to hand them, so loon as the return
c ing health of the City will admjt the veflels to
go up. A due attention to this notice may be of
■' convenience to the merchants, who probably
"* will be desirous to receive their go-ds vtry ex
c peditioufly. GEO. L4.TIME!;,
1 ot Collector.
h THE Owners of Goods on board
>' the (hip William Penn, art inforn, d that the
Colle&or of the Customs will receive such invoices
r and entries as may be forwarded to him, and will
a mike the nccetfaty'calculations and prepare the
' bonds fu that permits may be granted immediately
'• on the arrival of the fliip at Philadelphia,
h Prober I',. $ j „
d. This Day is Published,
n > AND FOR 1 ALE BY J. FEN NO, I »q,CH ES N O T-l 1 RH T
=" AN ADDRESS
;t To the People of Maryland,
r- ON the origin, progress and prefmt state of
French aggiefiion. with a ft etch of the mfani.nn
in attempts t» degrade the Ooveri ment of the United
[>. j .t..te»,and fomc reflectionson t< e late proci'evlir"~s
th j in Congreis; written the la.l of April in the pro
:f- sent year, by a Member of the Houl'e of Repfel -n-
X- tativw. § june 1I
y,
n t Pennsylvania Hqfpital,
ve " iq a, j, 1 ?<*4s.
t( j ~VTO pjrfon with au infeilieH.. oifca: , can be
o! A. h admitted into this house ; it is thirefore c»r-
Je neftly recommended to the citizens, not to fend
he or i ring say such patient to the gate, who is iil
with the prevailing fever. Several person« h"ving
ive been feot here improperly, is the reason of giving
j ie this caution.
'P- sL°, f Manors,} FRANCIS
Ten Dollars Reward.
DESERTED from the Guard House in Kew
Gallic, this morning, STcphen' Uowden, a.
private Marine, belonging to the Frigate United
Stat«», He is about 36 years of age, five feet ten
inches high, fair complexion, light hair, blue eyes,
0 born in England, and by trade a Bricklayer. Prier
IVC to the sth of June, the date of his ecii.im-nt, 1«
refided in Philadelphia, where it is probable he
will endeavour to go. Any person whn w.!l ap-
S" "prchend the said deserter, and fe-ure him in any
jail within the United States, lhall be entitled to
on the above reward.
" e F. WHAR.TON, Capt. Marines.
f £l " New) Castle, o<sl. 8.
ice. ,
on; TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
» 34 TA USERTkD from my Detachment at Borden-
Xj town this day, a Marine, by name Gmrtt
Rodman, a Native of Ireland about 25 years of age
fir* feet eight or niilc inches high, dark coup LC
tion, black hair tied; black <y s well mad and
ndi£n ( i2L Honor i-iiond-offingi tig —aji
00 a blue seaman h j'ckctt light pantaloons, cot
ton round Hat, and l,ad > ndtr his Pan
taloons a pair of Nankeen Breeches.
Whoever apprehends ami fends the said Defer-
OY tar to the Marine Camp, (hall receive the above
1 the Reward.
Is Q>«j
PROCLAMATION.
, T)Y virtue of a precept from John D. Coxe,
Lib" D Esquire, president of the cooft of Oyer and
Terminer and general goal delivery for the trial oE
all capital and other offences in the county of
Ducks; ,:nd Henry Wtnicoop and Francu
Muriiav, judges of the fame court—A court of
, Oyer and Terminer, and general goal delivery,
c ' will be held at Newtowo, in the said county of
bucks, on Monday the sth c.ay of NovemKr
All those who will prolecutc agaifift the priOnerj
in the goal of said county, are requited to be then
and there to prosecute against them as fi;all bej ifi—
and all the judices of the pe;.c:, co.Mners and con
* &.C. stables, within the said county, :..e required to be
then and there, in their j roper perfens, with their
rdage rolls, records, iiic[uifiti»tis and examinations and
•other their remembrance"., to do those thjnts which
to their offices belong, in that bdial/ to be
dune, &c. DANIEL THOMAS,lheriff.
Jtaw
FLOUR FOR SALE
By the Sulfcribtrs,
Deliverable at any of the ports en the Dela
ware—who have also on band at thejr (lores, a
quantity of Bar iron, Pork and Corn—Letters by
the poll will be attended to.
Levi Hollingsworth Iff Son.
august eB. dtf * •
" \VILLIAM M'LAWs,
aikets SADLER & HARNESS MAKER,
HAS Removed to the Corner of Chefnut
arid TwelftTi-Jlreets, on the Commons,
adeira w ' ,cre * le w '" r Ec«4ve and execute the orders of
his friends and v/holefale cuftoraers, with nfual
attention & expedition daring the prevalence of
the prel'ent Epidemic, wheie it has not made fts
J., f appearance this season, nor dering any ef the
Wstf Y"" *'* .
august 25 9
FOR sale;
The 'argo of the Schr. Sincerity
98. Benjamin Monteith Mailer, from Lagaira,
l 0 p a y C•NS IST INC OT
94? Fenegas of Cocoa
sealed 4009 lb. ol Flora Indigo
lodged Bales of Cottou
return 4 Packages of Goat Skins
By Witling, & Francis.
ffcflg}*. ' No. EieVcnth ltrect.
drl july 2: dtf
Madras and Ventapaulem
, g HANDKERCHIEFS,
iIEBY Searfaukers and Carradarries,
nersof the newest and mall approved patterns,entitled
, to the drawback, jutt received,
ANi FOR SALE BY
imot.ly J, Miller to* C».
School. No. 64, South Front street.
decline may 18. 5
i'i the ' FOR. SALE, sir
Ajioner John Miller, Jun.
NO. 8, CHESNUT STREET,
100 hogsheads RUM,
m. Of high proof and fine flavour
,<t je'r l *
!qijlMl—nil II I
Ship Brokers.
Thi« Eftablifhmcnr, commenced Hy the Utc Mr.
&amuel Smith, will »>e continued by K
Row Izf Simmons,
WHO refpeilfully acquaint the Merchants,
Trader?, and Mailers of veffeli; that B )
p:ii: i or exertions ft«U be wanting to give general
fatisfiiftioa .This business will be conducted at their
S*.»re, No. i 07, South Water Street, near to the
Cufom H<nft.
OiSohfr '-7 dtf
JuJl imported in Jljips William Penn, A
minble and "Jean, from London,
A qxantity of Cannon^zet 4,6 & 9 lb, "> with balls
Ca lbs. J fuita'nle.
Mufqurts, Mufquetoons, Cutlaffet ind") &
Piltols, lor fliips use, f • B
AifUd barreled Guns Fowling Pieces. ! S
and Horfemau's l'iftols, I -5"2
40c,000 Flints, ci.iefly for muskets, in | jr*
kijt. J «
Regulation Light Dragoon Sabres, with Iron Scab
bards, i'i cases of 50 sach,
Light Cavalry Swcrds ia Clfes
Sabres, Swords ard Cuthffes, with plated mounting
Jronmcneery nrd Cutlery in calks, a general af
fortmcct—l'or Sale by
Thomas <S" Jno. Ketland,
Pbi'ad. O&ober 25.
For Sale, or Charter,
TBK DANISU BRIG
- o U I S A,
NOW lying at Burlington, a ve
l j tall l'ailer.—For ir-ms ajpy to
•JACOB SHOEMAKER.
WHO HAS FOR SUE,
Her cargo, of about 2,000 bulhels of
St. Martin's Salt.
10 mo. J4th, '9B diet.
~ SAiviuEL Parker,
BRASS and BELL FOUNDER.
No. 137, Mulberry ftrert,
CONTINUES \o carry on the bra/* foundery
business is usual, where bis former ctifto
mers md the public may be ftipplird with call
ing frr machines to any pattern, rudder braces,
bolts, &c for ships.
It may be proper to add, that, as it has been
reported he had declined the business, S. P. takes
this means of informing the publiu that he is
making arrangements to carry it or. ft:' 1 more
'x'enfively, hoping thereby to comply prompt
ly with rfiich orders as he may have to execute.
Belli, of any Cze, cast for churches and
ott.er institutions ; printers rule's, -4c.
<"Vtobfr 26 eo 3t.
Whlr±.as the certificate of two
flisres of the Bark of the United States in the j
n*me of Sfmnel /Jmory, of London, linker, i
No jif a, ilTueJ in lieu of 11593, 11594, were
forwar ed from London by the British packet
Conr.ti si, of Leicefler, cajJt. Dodd, bound for
NVw York, which packet was captured by the
French, andthe said certificate loft ; and fi«r the ,
renewal of which, application it made at said
Bank, and all perlbns concerned are desired to
take notice.
CLEMENT BIDDLE.
Thila. Oft. 16, 1798. eo6t' ,
Notice is hereby given, i
THAT application will be mad* to the treasury
of the United Hates for the renewal of the follow
ing certificates of fix per cent* funded debts, ftaS9-
ia the name of T«« Gabricllc RigatJ, of Geneva,
which were loft from en board the Swallow Pack
et, Capt. Kidd,from Falmouth toNew-Yotk.
Doit,, i;
No. ornce Ifjtti ivtny TorfOes ! J
13,181. do. 14th do. do. t do. for 3JOO ,
Willings & Francir. \
OSobcr 14. eodow. ,
Notice is hereby given, 1
THAT application wilt be made to the Treafw- J
ry of-the X'r.ited States, for the renews! of the J
following Certificates cf Six Per Cent Funded
Stock, {landing in the name of "John Carionell, of j
I.uno'on, the said Certificates having ien loft on
boar ! t s e Swallow Packet, Captain Kidd. from
Falmouth to New-York.
No. 5072 I Cert, for 2000 dolls. ~l c
2964 1 do. jooo j
-10,377 i do- 3000 J
Willingt & Francis. ,
'■> Philadulphii, auauft 10 a«6w
REMOVAL.
r "j~'HE office •( the Secretary »f the Commiffion
-1 ers tor carrying into effeiSl the twenty-firft J
article of the treaty of friendfiiip, limits and navi- a
gation, between Hit Catholic Majesty and t'ie U- a
nired States of A merica, it, for the present, remov
ed from No. .54, fonth Second llrcet, to a large
two story brick heufe on the right hand, gains;
up the Germantown road, usually called Matters'
house.
Thole concerned are informed that, nofwith
fta-idingthe prevalence of the fever in Philadelphia,
daily attendance has been, and will continue to be j
givtn at the said office, until the return of the citi- a
zens; !- that on the seventeenth day of November
nejft, the terra of eighteen months will expire since
the day on which the comm illioners aflembled
after which period no complaints or applications
sen fn/TMy be received by them
Letters and inclofures poll-paid will beduly at
tended /»by. "]
PETER LOHRA, Secretary. J
QiSober 18. 1798, § tot F
Canal Lottery, Na 11. *
Considerably more than Half Drawn. i r
Draws twice a week, every Motdaj iff Tutfdaj a
1 PICKETS For Sale, Seven Dollars eacb, at I fa
. WILLIAM BLACKBURN'S Lottery jH
and Brokrrt office, No. 64 South Second-llreet, di
where chesk books are kept for examination jnd ai
repiflering in this, City of Washington No. a.
and Patrrfon Lotteiies and information where
Tickets may be bad in moll of the Lotteries au
thrri&d by law ia any of the States of the
Union.
ST ATI o» TBI WHSIL«
One prize of 10,000 dollars 10,000 t£
Five 4.0 c« jo,ooo (i
Two »»oco 4.000
Nine i>ooo 9,000 ar
Ninetren s°o 9>s° a di
Forty-f> ur 200 8,800 m
With a full proportion of the one hundred t e
and of the fifty dollar prizet—the price of tick
ets will fooH rife, particularly on account of the p]
Sve 1,000 dollar priret that remain in the wheel ~
until the laftday of drawing.
0- Note, the business of a Broker duly at
tended to in all its branches at the above office.
may 14 w&st * ft,
' GEORGE DAVIS,
TAKES this opportunity of informing _
his friendt gener.lly, that so soon as the pre- ~~
sent sickness »ill a-'mit ir, he propofet to offer for
file, tl»« moll extensive colledion of ft
LAW BOOKS, m
he ever imported, or that was ever imported into
»he United States.—The late arrivals have brought
j. m j cumber of extremely valuable and f. arce
BOOKS, and thufe tapeftcJ, will greatly add to tQ
I
Dr. Yeatman's
Anti-pellilential Preservative and
r ' anti-bilious Pills,
ARE e»rneflly recommended at this Season,
against the Fevrrs that prevail. Prepared
and fold only hy tbe Subscriber, wh") feels it ne
" ceflary to embrace this opportunity of aiquair.t
- "r ing the Public, that he received aregultredu
cation in tbe diffetent Branchet of
Physick, Surgery, £s? Midwifery,
Under his Father, and other eminent men in
rf. the citi« of London and Bristol, and (in the
course of twenty-eight yeart ) has seen the ma
ny good effeflt of this incomparable medicine,
tils in Bilious, Jaundice, or Hepatic cafet, Dropsy,
Rheumatism, Luet-Venrrea, Scurvy, Worm ca
ses, Malignant and other Oifeafet, proceeding
from acrimonv. and obftrudlion.
THE PILLS
Are prepared according to true medical prin
ciples, and may be fafelv taken by the molt de
ab- licate- In boxes ®f a quarter dollar, and half
a dollar, with direilions, and sealed with bis
creil, cypher, tnd motto. None else are Gs
i«g nuine.
i[ - N. B. The anti-pestilential pre
servative, was used with great success at Lon
don, JKarfeillet, Bristol, and other Cities,
when they were refpeilively visited with the
PLAGUE.
In bottles of a quarter dollar and half a dol
lar, with Directions, and the Corks sealed as
above.
ve - CHARLETON YEATMAJf.
South EafteornerofLombard anii Second Arrets,
!. New Market.
oAsber a taw. tn_
Bank cf Pennsylvania,
September }d, 1798.
WHEUKAS th? Houie at present occupied
by the Bank of Pennsylvania wat enter
ed on tbe night of the firft infiant, by some vil
lains, wh-> robbed the institution of sundry
, Bank Notes, amongfl which were tbe follow
ery ing post notea of the Bank of Nav-York, via.
No looa, dated 13d of Atiguft, 1798, Dolls
' ' issued in favor of Seabring k
es> Van Wytk, for 396 ia
No 1063, dated of August, 1798,
issued in favor of Montgom
ery and Newbold for H5.0
n No iop6, a7th do. do. do. aeoo
)re 1007, do, do. do. do. sooo
P'" 1008, do. do. do. do. aooo
1009# do. do. do. do. acoo
1010, 28th do. do. do. aooo
ion, do. do. do. do. »oo©
iois, 30th do. do. do. ijoo
r _ 1013, do. do. da. do. 1000
Also sundry post notes of the Bink of Penn
" e j fylvania, dated 43d Jyly 1797, issued in t'avcr
;r ' of George Hughes, for one thoufantl dollars
re each, and fnndry post notes of said Bank, da-
: et ted 15th of July, 1797, issued in favor of Geo.
" r Hughes, for five hundred dollars each and in
fj e dorfed by him. The public are hereby eaution-
ed against receiving the said notes, and a re
ll ward of TWO THOUSAND DOLL /fflS is
10 htreby offered for th- discovery and conviiflion
of the villains who perpetrated or are concern
ed in the said robbery, in addition to the rtxs - ard
ollered by the Governor of the Commonwealth
in his Proclamation of this day.
ry Br order of the Board,
/- JONATHAN SMITH, calhier.
a - A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
a »
k " TOHN A. SHAEFFER, ef Philadelphia, who has
~ | J fcr a few years pall been in the southern States,
3?!-i has the effi-ontery t revi;j— 1 -*•"• mm.
j cttahgioaiimernyT'icEering, Esq. Secretary of
State, and myfelf,and by that means has defrauded
a number of perfont of their money, deceiving
them by an exhibition of letters and papers with the
names affixed of divers public chara&eis and repu
lt_ table merchants highly recemmendatory of (aid
Shaeffer; to one of these papers I find my name
fubferibad, but Ido not know the man ; these are
o j. villainous forgeries! T0 prevent further imposition,
n I have to request the printers of Newspapers in the
' United States to publilb this for the benefit of their
fellowcitizens. SAMUEL MEREDITH,
United Statu.
Trenton, Nruf-, ">
Oihtcr »4, 1798. f
To Be Let,
For Six Months, from the fsfl if Novem
ber next,
A COMMODIOUS three story brick house,
with extenlive back buildings, situated
i- No. 153, South Second Street.—For terms
[. apply to
JAMES LYLE.
South Seventh, near Chefnut Street.
? Oflober 19 dtf'
To Be Let,
And immediate pofflffton Given,
'• A COMMODIOUS Three Story Brick House
, c with convenient back buildings, situated
1 at the north weft corner of Third and Walnut
r ftieets.—For terms apply to
, e ,Dr. THOMAS PARKE.
, No. 20, South Fourth Street.
Oflober 39 dtf
• TEN DOLLARS - REWARD.
DESER TED lad sight, a feconi time, from
tbe Marine Camp, David Lufer, a fifer.—
He had when he went away, a plain bluejacket a«4
veft,light blue overalls, a round hat, which had been
bound with yellow, and which he had ripped off
in his fir II defcrtion, and a pair of new tiocs. he is
y a Carpenter by trade, has grey eyes, far.d;- hair
t I fallow compltxion and a nitch in his upper lip.
y I His back is fttll fore from a flogging he got a few
;, days ago. He may Bo difcovcred by his fifeing,
i at he plays extremely well.
W. W. BURROWS Major Com. of the
e Marine Corps.
October 17.
e COLLECTOR'S OFFICE,
PmLAD ELPWIA ,
THE bufineffi of the Custom Houle will from
tail iay be tranfe&ed at Chcftcr, during the con
tinuance of the fever which now prevails in thi»
3 city ; and in canfequ.nce thereof, the merchants '
3 are hertby notified, '.hat payment of all bonds for 1
s dutict to the United States, payable at thh office, ]
3 may be made either at the Cullom Heufe in Chef
-1 ter, or at the Bank of the United States.
Colle&or't Office, » '
: Philadelphia, Aug. 30. J
1 To be fold or Rented, 1
t THE fabferiber's house, No. 78, Walnut '
. street, with a ctllar and two stables Poffeffion or "
the house will be given early in Novtmber the 1
stables acd cellar immediately. f
GEORGE MBAD. .
, O •Sober 14, j tf
'' ■■■ 1 t t I
<5- The Subscribers to this Gazette '
residing in, and near Germanicnvn, c
are respectfully informed, that their I
papers nil! be forwarded (daily) to '
Mr. Samuel Richardet, in German
tcr.vn inhere a list of their names 1
will be lef(. t
i I v
i'ron a late JLonaon f'afcr-
J IRELAND.
In the House of Commons pn Thurf- I
'» day, A'iguA 30, a meflage from the Lords
by two of the judges—presented from their
j' lordships the amnelly bill, parted in the up
per house, and requeftiog the concurrence of
the commons.
Lord Caftlereagh moved that the bill be
; n now read.
, e The bill was accordingly read, and Mr.
1- Mac Nagliten immediately rose, asd declar
e, ed it met his raoft full and hearty approba
f> tion, a3 did Sir John Btaquiere, Mr. Bar
rington, and Mr. Ogle. The queflion be
ing put, it paflVd mem con•
On Friday, Aug. 31, the earl of Farn
ham rose, and having the Dublip Evening
Poll in his hand, observed upon a paragraph
If inserted in that paper as an extraft of a let
is ter, which degraded the military charafter
e- of the Frazer fencibles, in a late flcirmifh
with the French near Caftlebar—an accufa
i- tioa his lordship stated, as not only of gross
a- falfhood, but for which there was not the
'*> fmallefl foundation, as he had authority to
le allure their lordships, that 110 mey could be-
have with more bravery and spirit than this
as body of his majesty's army had done upon
that occasion. His lordship strongly repro
bated this newspaper mode of vilifying his
majesty's forces, and which merited severe
p«ttifhment.
The Lord Chancellor confirmed the state
ment of his lordship.
The Attorney Gen«ral rose to move for
leave to bring in a bill for amsndiag an a&
r . passed in the 36th of bis present majesty, en
-- titled an aft for lhe better preventing infur
y reilion and disturbances of the public peace ;
having moved accordingly, leave was grant
'• ed, be presented the fame, and it was read a
firft and fc-cond time.
t 0% lu'i motion, the bill for compelling
perfon3 therein named, charged with High
Treason, td come in and abide their trials,
' was tead a firft time.
Id the House of Caramons on Saturday,
Sept. i, the Bill for amending the Infur
refltion Aft was reacfra second time.
Mr. Arthur Moore, after descanting
some time on the inadequacy as the provif
fions of the Bill for preventing the crime of
aflaiSnatioii, moved for leave to bring in a ;
Bill to amend it.—Leave given.
* The Bill was introduced, and read a firft i
time.
, In a commiitee 00 the Loyalists Indem. '
nity Bill, after ferns debate, the h«ufe re 1 -
• fumed, and the report ordered to be receiv
" ed on Monday.
s Meflage from the Lords, with the Bill
n far preventing the Slate prisoners from re
j turning from transportation, and the min
h utes of the evidences given by Francis
Dobbs, Esq. at Mr. Le Bas, tending to
prove the acknowledgment of 75 state prif
_ oners, of a paper with their signature an
nexed, whereby they bound themselves to
go in voluntary exile*
■ 9 Mr. Le Bas was then examined, and
proved they feveraHy acknowledged the
C paper as theif arm:
j Mr. Ogle observed, that amongst tbofe
S signatures was one of D«nni« M'Carty, a
c man who, he said, flood charged with
j murder in Wexford: He should carefully
e watch the progress of the Bill, that a man
e charged with so foul a crime should uot cf
1, cape with impunity.
Mr. For made a very able opposition to
r the third enafting clause. He* contended
, that to recognize, by adapting, the
proceedings of those military tribunals, 1
which were contrary to the eftablifhcd law i
of the land.
The Attorney General, in a few words
disclaimed any istention of declaring that
the sentences of M ilitary Courts were legal, i
» He aflented to the principle of Mr. Fox, I
j and therefore moved, that tha committee 1
report progress, in order to new model this
objeftionable clause.
The Attorney General stated, that he \
wished to add the names of several notorious .
and daring traitors to the bill for obliging 1
rebels to furrendcr, on pain of confifcatiorc a
of property ; the m&ft prominest of those 1
was Mr. Harvey Morrice, a companion and '
intimate of the unfortunate Dr. Esmond, '
who was executed. The next person was i
William Burke of N«m. The Attorney
General then recited the names of three per- a
sons more. He said he had evidence to prove 0
t» the house the guilt of thole persons. He
thsncal'edonMr. Holjne«,&another member, n
who briefly recited some afts of rebellion, "
which*, to their knowledge they had been *
guilty of.—The Attorney General then
moved that their names be added to the bill,
which was agreed to, and the House ad! „
journed. "
£
SCOTLAND. 11
Extras ef a letter from the Rev. Dr. Coke, f
to Mr. Samuel BraJiurt, of Birmingham,
July 3, 1798. 31
" On Monday, (yeftcrday evening,) I 1
went into the pulpit, the chapel being fu'l,
so that many could not get in. While the* 81
congregation was Tinging the two, last lines
of the second hymn, an old woman cried out
" the roof is coming down." One of our
fr ends knowing there was no manner ef dan- £
ger, in a whisper desired her to hold her V
tongue, but it was too late. Almoil uni- ,
verfal cries and shrieks took place. The
people immediately tufhed out,—The court i
which is but fmaU» was inflantly crtuded. V
—None I think were hurt in the chapel:
but in the court, just on the outside of the
floor, 6 women, and a boy of four years old, £
were thrown down, and alai! dhs 1
trod to death t It was in vain to cry out,
" Sit still» for there is no danger." Nobo
dy gave the least attention, I never was so
much diftrefled in my life, it being the most
awful event I ever witnefled."
The Office of the Mayor of w
the City of Philadelphia, is held for the w<
preUnt at thq StatJL Houfs in the Court &
s*° otJU 9a. is, w;
LATE
iforeijjn
rf-
rds STOCKHOLM, August 9.
eir The following is a letter of the captain
ip. of the Troya frigate to the King of Swe
of den :—" On the 27th of June on my voy
age from Marllrand, on board the Troya
be frigate, your Maj.-fty's vcfTel, in company
with the convoy under my care, I was met
fr. off the North Foreland by an English
ar- squadron corifriliVg of a ship of the line,
four frigatts, a brfgantine, and another cut
ar- ter, commauded by Commodore Lawrord,
be- who after having spoke with mc, and being
informed that the Swedish merchant veflels
rn- that followed me, wrt"e under my escort,
ng and dellined for Portugal ard the Mediter
ph rar.san, immediately dispatched a cutter to
ft- the coall of England. The wind coo
ler tinuiug contrary, J beat about until the
ifh 17th of July following, almost continually
fa- in fight of the fquadror., which having been
nfs invitihle for some hours, returned to me in
he full fail, and as soon as t came within hear
to ing, demanded pcrmiffioa to fend a boat 011
3 e- board me, to which I acceded. The ofS
his cer (hewed mean order of lhe firft Lord of
on the English Admiralty addrefl'cd to the
ro- Commodore, requiring li m to carry into
bis an English port said v: flels under the pro
;re teftioß of your majefly's frigate, a . being
laden with iron, timber, and other cvmnner
[e- eial articles, contrary, as he believed, to
the conditions of the tre ity. In confs
ror quencehe i ivited me to |er.ier with my con
id voy into an English port, and avoid the re
■n- fult of a refufal. To tii s I anfwercd.
ir- " that as the convoy did not, to my knowl
s ; edge, carry any article contrary to the trea
(t- ty, it was riot poflible for me to eenfrot to
la the capture of the merchantmen ; and that
if violence should be rsforted to, I fiiould
ig oppofe'forei to force." I also told of
rh ficer, toadvifehiscommandcrtoweighwe.il 1
U, my answer and th t I was determined to .
deferitTmy 'convoy to the last extremity,
y, As it was then nightfall, I was not -;bk-10 ,
■r- watch the motions of thr English ; but at ,
daylight, I found that they had taken ad
jg vantage of the darkness to capture ti.e vrf- 1
if- fels, which, notwithstanding ray fij/naL, had 1
of dropt too far a r (ern for me to defend them,
a | I then fixed all my attent on upon the Eng
; lifli squadron, resolved to fink to the bo:J
rft. i torn, if p flible, some of t'nsir boati thai
j were b mrding the mercbantm n ; anci I
n. ' perceived an armed boat endeavoring to g»in
e- one of the most diflant vefiels belonging to
v- the convoy, but I coul i not get near it,
and prepared to sustain a COmbat w th the
ill English Iquadrod that now furro.'ndtd me
■e- within pistol shot. As they did not lecm
n- inclined to c;mmence in attack, I £e;;t an
;is otiicer to the commodore, to anoounce to
to him this very important capture, and re
,f- proacbing him with having, though a com
n- mandeiof a ship of the line, taken ad van
to tage of the darknef;, to poflefs i.imfelf ot
several unarmed vcffsls, whe / I ebuld nei.
jd ther fee nor poflibiy jw event his designs '
he " Do you propose a rupture?" said I to
ram, ■- oive rtfr a tiCeci'iivc aiitwcrT" — J
ife replied he did not fear a rupture "r any mis: '
a nndtrflanding beiwi-en the two courts, and i
tb that he had only obeyed his orders. My
ly fupp'y of water was so ciminifhed I dare no- -
a[> quit the channel. I resolved thin, aaudft a :
£ the difficulties that surround me, to feefc. with '
Imy convoy, the nearest port. I tbe'n apprilcd t
' the English commander of my intention, rcq tir \
'<> ing at the lame time to withdraw the men
:d whom he had put on board the vcffeU, antlthat t
ie they should repair immediately to what-fve.- p.irt
8> ihe might be able to carry them. He pledged V
w 1 his word as honor, and as f<x>a as I f.iw his uro
j mile performed, I lent the Englifl) ofll, e r, whom »
, " I" 111 ' t ' l;n detained on raajef- c
ty s fiigate, aud let fail for the (jnly t
« , port for wnkhthem ind was faiorable. Ifi nt from I
I. thence an officer to your majefty'i minider at
t, London, aud wait his aufwtr.' The frigate ;3 in
;c Hate, and her crew ail wen."
is. ' —•
PAKIS, September 1. ti
i<* )■ '* letters from Itahy, and even the pitb- f<
e lie gazette, at M.lan, fhte, that new d.fferenees t(
w C3r ! g b f* fe '[ ,hc king of N'aplei \ u d the h
g French and they have even publifiied at Milan
1 ex [ of a letter torn the iecretary »t' ti.e
■ £ trench legation at Naples to one of bis frieads, 1S
d X ? , e^>! lo wiUi; effea—» Tic fitu-jfio,, of po li ei
j " rl ' 'Sairs between the French and the govern- in
' mel " °j , tlui country is fiH-h, that in a few davs ri
we lhal! he obliged to abitidon it." ' u
J The French arnxy of Svvitzer.'aod and Italv
ar f> at ' cn P t b, able to communicate with ea -ii u
e otheiyby Gotha d and St. Bernard, and with ,
e the army at Me>i£ by Soleure and Bale. '> . c t
new advantages augur well, whether for i ; r ; v in
viAory, and atfo for the uaion of .he Grifbas ci
► with tt:e Helvetic republic.
J
1 BRUNN Augufl 23r n '
' Buonaparte, it i» said, has written tq Con- S
ttantjuople to declare, that, should if,a Porte hi
grant per,m.fi^ n t0 the Ruffi . fl e t to pass tfi
He Dardareilei, heflnli conlider it ag a de
da rat ton of war against the French K.-p„b- F
He. He requires that the Porte should refill la
any iuch demand with its utnjoll force, and th
, expefts this proof of friendship the wore, th
since he has freed the Porte from its ancient cc
enemies, the Maltese Knights. re
VIENNA, August 22. SI
v. ft l !™ J rorn Conttantinwple fay, that
Muftapha Pacha, the brother i„ ! aw of (he b.
Orand Sign,or, w,ll direa the liege of Wid- g!
dm, after the departure of the Captain Pa- an
cba, who is to take the command of the rii
Confta r' A «"« Anient prevails j„ m
Conftantmople, on account of the arrival 0 f , ly
the French at Alexandria. The Grand S.V- F,
mor himfelf the meatures of the Po
e. Several Greeks, who had employed
Frenchmen to give their children a republi. th
theirllT' 33 Uk Ca " ed ' hW b.
_ M
HAGUE, August 18.
The inflallation of the new Direaory
took place yeilerday. an d was celebrated th
th E'uch parade. Four of the Diret'ora fu
were present j Citizens Hoffclt of Amfter ei.
siiLtaU sos who had co
wished to be cxcultd fiom iki» office, haying di
- eonfcntecJ to accept if, the Ch» m k
having found the reasons tW ' **
ficient. The two other
were Citizens Ermereiu, of Thol pri " t,:t<
Harfolte, of Arnheim ; Citizen fc a " d
ain LeuwarJen, the fifth Dired*,- • '
we . yet arrived. Citizen Hoedt was cKr.f' T
oy . lot to be PrefidcHt of the new Di re A Y
oya Ihe installation was celebrated by
lny ®f artillery and ringing of bells ,
net Diredory received the congratu alia r
hfh the two Chambers and the Batav,' an a„° d
ine, French Generals with Generals Hatrv i
ut . Daendels at their head. The inter-2V
, rd) Diredory has now difTolved itfdf. " 7
in [T
re!a augsburgh, A ugu st
>rt, The Vienna Gazette has not f orm ']|„
:cr- nounced the disembarkation of the F J
rto at Alexandria. Private letters ho *
on- from Vienna fay, that a landing hasT**
:he effeded, and that by main f orc f anr i
illy the effort cost the French n ea ,- j onr .
-en This news like the former, cotn-s h
in of Constantinople.' The last afTei'lo.
:ar- ever, must be either Mfe or exalfc
on The capture of M It? did not co 3B- «na.'
ffi- parte more than ftx or seven j s "t then
»f probable that he would have f xpofed his rß en
the for the purpofeof entering \l e; ;and, '*> where
nto his arrival was expeded gice th: c f
to- Apcit last.
ing It may be that the Bsys Egypt
er wha, we know, have for sometti le "'aks n
to off the authority of the Ottoma 11 Port
'fe- might have regarded * ! >e French a 3 'he t C '
an- mies of their ufurpatioit— as fnt*ndin2 t a
re- place Egypt under die fove reign ty 0 f the
td. Grand Sigm,r—ait as ninharifed tcconoyer
»w- it for the benefit of the French aa
ea- a flu ranee of cert?,in ?to the Grand
to rig.ior, either in Alia or in Europe,
'at Phis hypotlie/is, however, beati vvith it
ild little probability The o'jed , f B, JC , nj .
of- parte was to attack the EnsWh power i*
ea the East Indies : lie mnft of course, avoid
to with care, enem>e« • n big way .
:y Why flamiM.; <• .-rap!-.ftiß army in an attack
to on the Bcya > . . pt, when a treaty wag
at concluded he urn and France in the
u:- year 1756. - >, : the guarantee of the Ot,
-f- toman Porte, forth.- latter fete.
; aa ral advamages in -he c -nri-erce of the Le
m v.n a d.wnh refprct to the navi atioo 0 f
'g tW 8
iai Buoiwpane ha» arrived.at Alexandria, and
I on what terms he presented himfelf before
that piace.
to The gazette of thin p'ac", this day, con
it, tarns a report tha; Admiral Nelson, having
arrivei 3t Alexnno'in a itart time after the
ne landing of the French, had immediately be
gan to bombard that city,
an _
to LONDON, September 6.
° n Mcnda r I-"' 1 a* emWgo was laid on
.It flsips ai d veflels at this port for three
0 | '' :, y* r 'ill rhurfday aaomin?. not a
e| - boat was fiiffered to go down the Humben
i 5 Sfid keels coming down the rivers
t J o were fired upfin if they attempted to pass
-[ c - °* " »<■ tlic-nrcds.— ti fgronjtc
•jv lined, that this stoppage of the ftiips was to
fd ? r4v f llt ? n y °f the enemies of their coantry
'.f' '"ending intelligence to France of the i'ticcefs
J of the French iu their attack upon General
a : L : ke st Csftlebar, in Ireland. We under
t|, 'land that this fiiort embargo extended to all
cd the in this ki«gd(vn, and we hope,
ir had the desired effed. Too much caution
canfiot be tifed in times of peril like the pre-
II sent, when evil minded men glory in their
wickedness.
0 It is a fad at once demo nil native of the
in very flo writhing state of the commerce of the
f- country, and cf the immense wealth which
ly the country contains, that the whole of the
m lad loan of feve'Heen millions, is paid up
within a very few (we believe about twelve)
hundred ihotifand pounds.
did not gire much credit*
to the articles iuferted in lome of the latest
b- foreign Journals, concerning the a&ion faii
e» to have taken place in the Mediteraneaa
ie between the French and Englilh fleeti, yet
l " c we thin* it r.cccffary to state, that this news
s> is col-robotic! hx -riicr advices, much more
entitled to credit, though certainly-'by no
means conclusive. Private letters from Pa
's ris ftate—tha; the duedtory wv under great
uneasiness in not having received any kind
v of authentic General
. ' Bu inapart'- snd it was" general'y beoevell
* e that a molt bloody confhd had taken place
e '» the Archipelago, which had proved de-'
,s cilive in our favour. We are not vet dis
posed to b.lieve that any body of French
rroop:; has landed at dria.
A' new light house is to be ereded cn the
South fid-.- of the entrance of Workington
e harbour. It will be lighted for the firlt
» time, on the 25th of next mnnth.
Genetal Humbert, who oommands the
- Fre <eh on the North western coast of Ire
-1 land corrcfponds, in a material decree, with
i the information given by Dr. M'Nevin, to
, ■ the f?cret committee •£ the frith 4ioufc of
: commons, namely, that it Was particularly
recommended to the French Government to
make a iiverfion oa the Wcilern coast, and-
Sligo was particularly pointed out.
C The Princels Royal, which was taknn
; by the Freach iu the
- great annoyance to the shipping io the Indi
an seas. tihe was ffttrd out from the Mbb<-
: rilius, and armed with 40 g«n» and 2JO
1 men. Th'c liaymond a»d Wood c®tt, iatc-
F ilycapturej, it is much feared will make thef
French force in India very formidable.
September 8.
The Freach papers arrived last night to
" the 3 1 ft nit. They have a report from Mi
lan, that the Engliih had taken polTefiion of
Medina, the chief town and port <rf Sieily,
and had even cantoned themfelvet in the
island.
1 he preparations for war going on with
the utmost vigor 011 the Rhine. Nothing
further has tr.-.nfpired refpeding the nego
ciatjons at Raftadt ; nor 13 any ac
count whatever fro© the flrets is the Afc
; |di:erraoefiar' and Ital
Tby, t|)iS Dnv'S spail. si'S:
C to that j
NEW YORK, O&ober 29,
„ The following is not only intercfting to
our farmers, but to every geademan, of
science, as controverting a long eftjblillicd Cff3 of ,
uofition in the piiilofophy of animal lite- _ diterra*.
At the m-ettrg of the Holdernefs Agrt- Th „
cultural Bo' iety, holden at Hedon on Wcd- the corr
nrfu-v sennight, -he qneaion, " Whether so far p
there is any solid obj.aion against breeding to turn
from cattle, however near their confangutm- P.
Tv » was difcufTed bv a numerous Meeting
of the society, confiding of several rfredtcal A
gentlemen, and of gentlemen and grazier, of haj th|
ereat expen'e. ce in the breeding ot cattle ; dued „
w hen the unanimous opinion of the meeting e g . n
was," That there is not any fohd rcalon raised
whatever a gain ft breeding from cattle of the ; nto t ;
fame family, was treated as mere vulgar pre- , ft ; ng
iudice, proceeding, perhaps, from incestuous batch ,
intercourse, being oonfidered (and for very Versa ;
good reasons, but which do not appear to
the brute creation) highly improper amongit y
the human fcecies. It (hould seem that it Y e J
is the intered of breeders of cstth to breed drrfs>
from the best males and female they have Uighl]
o,- caii procure, however near of kin. as was , alld ; n
{he pradice ofd.at celebrated breeder, the : L
*vlr i':i tee well. ai:d as is recommended f wafi v(
bv that able writer and igric'iituraiift, M.. | )ou f e
Marshall, in his Rural Eo-jnomy of the j lr) t j,j
Midland Counties, vol. 1. p. 300. j et j f ro
The Prufiian mir.iftry .have detr.andet! a 1
categorical anfw.-r from the F cnch Minister i Mr
Sieyes to this quellion —" Does the Di- 1 dam; ,'
redory intend to take General Kofciufco, j ;nft
the Chief of the Polilh revolution, under j
their proteftion ?" , prcm
j the ft
Those who grumble at our Land Ta*, i
&c. Ihould In in their eyes abroad, and fee p
how the Republ'cans under the French f
¥ yoke are obliged to contribute to the tie- v ; c ; n
ceflities of the state. In the Roman Repub- Gem
lie, the fotiowir^is the rate at which peo- a fl-„,r
pie of property are tp pay for the eofuing
year : it w:
Those who are of a revenue of j Q e „
from thr;e to fixthoufand crowns, one third • p ro b
t)f their income. j the 1
Those havii g from fix to ten tboufand, <
two thirds. Rev
And those enjoying an income of ten g toc
thousand an upwards, the whole amount for r
the year ! 1 ton,
- Hot
A Spanish 80 gun (hip, from the Havaa- errp
na, having fourteen millions of dollars, and [|
the governor of the Havanna, who is bro- j , w j
ther to the Prince of Peace, on board, has,
it appears, eluded the vigilance of our cru- f 0
eiers, and arrived fafe at Vigo. C
Lon. Pap. j,
1
General Humbert, who commands the
French republicans landed at Killala, was,
previous t© the revolution, a ferjeant in the p r ;
Berne regiment of foot. He was there con
sidered as a very indifferent, but intrepid fel- 1
low. the
cor
Paul the firft, seems now seriously deter- po {
mined to begin the war which the Ruffian hai
Empire declared again it France so many p £ (
years ago. frit
- . ■ t!l{
Tljc King of Sardinia is now exptatirg, f ur
in a mod l.imentable manner, the weakness 0 f
and imprudence which induced him, on the 0 f
French entering Italy „to deliver up to them co:
his fortreffes, whereby they were enabled to va i
penetrate without danger, into the very £ UI
hea't of that country. If that ill fated
prince has been pofltffed of fufficient forti- he
tude to die in the breach, he would not r.ow
be reduced j ''nger out a miserable existence
pi-oftrate at t)ie feet of bis barbarous vigors. » j, a
May his fate, at lea ft, afford a ufeful lei Ton a „
to other Sovereigss, not to be deceived by
a lure of a treaty of peace with a Govern-. co
aient which is conllantly laying snares for | l;
princes and nations, to despoil them ot their
dignity, and to accomplilh their deftru&ion. w
h<
Thc-»hole ff riie once valuable property f£
of the Daily Advertiser of Hull has fceen , v
fold at G arraway's Coffee house, by public ; f e
auftion, for two hundred and ten pounds ; e f
ths Auctioneer declared, that in the year d(
1792, he fold, bv the fame mode, one twen- t j
tieth fhate of the I'ime property, for one C(
thousand and ninety two pounds. a ,
A
There are two Mrs. Sid don's—Jive Gar.
rick'« four Miss Farren's—-/even Eslwii's—
and thirteen Stotaces—ill engaging and of- Q
fering themselves at Drury Eane a'ld Co- t(
vent Garden theatres. c .
The four fjmous antique bronze horf:s taken
by the Freriih from Venice havebeen great trav
ellers. Th. ir firft journey was from Greece to .
afterwards from iiome to Couftantino 11
pie —from Conltantinople to Venice— and from I v
Venice—to Paris. p
Several Opera Rinpers in France h.'ving lately
applied, in vtvy prelfing terms, to the present
minister of Finances, for payment of arrears
he Snfvvered rather (hreivdly—" we do not pav
those who cry (the annuitants) how can you b
expeft we lhnuid pay those
The Plague rages atConftantinoplewith great
violence and mortality.
The EnjliOi, puWuStit to their harrafTisg fyf- J
te j >j, are eterna'fy oft" the Oitend and Blanksn
bergcoafts with troopj of debatkstimj, for what t
purpose we know n»t, hut they oblige us to
keep a «r>tifid:rah!e body of troops conllantly on c
thecoafi. (Druflels paper.) ,
The Treaty cf Alliance, rffenfive and defen- ;
five, between Frame and has been
publilhed . The articles, of which fix have ap
peared, fay—that thtre (hall he pe;c:, under
itanding and amity Iwrtwcen the two reuuh
lic»—that whatever aids stall he cai ed lor (hah
be mutually repaid—that the Independence and
government of Switzerland fhal! he guaranteed
by France, and her artil'ery replacedi that the
Bif/ioprick, of Bsfe.and (he I'liiieipaHty I'area
rui, fnall besttarhed to the French territory; that
the rommsnicatiin of France with Germany
ant'. Italy (hall be through Switzerlan 1; To <al
and that there fliall be a tree navigation fro n the
* lake of Geneva to the Rhiae. and from Gsncva
to that part ofthe Rhine whu.h it* navigable. at|
e The pofTelTiort of the of Medina, proha- | IC
,f b!y with the acquiescence of hw Neapolitan Ma- nave I
d jffty, njnft prove fcigfhly tn;, iucive t© the fuc- has an
cess of the Britilh naval operations in the Me- anxiet
diterraweao. the' e
'* There is no doubt, fay? an EnjU.li paper, but o p Cne
1- the commerce of the U'iit*<l Irish at Paris has
:r so far prevailed on the directory, as to induce it !'
a to turn it? attention particularly to Ireland. It
j_ is to present any surprise, that so many troops and 11
are going thither fr«H* this country. pinen
? oust
a J; A letter from Berne in an-Englifh paper 3!) y ,
D has this observation : —' France has sub
' dued us, but never can unite US to b" inter- dom.
eft: neither can she depand on any troops m y f
' n raised in this country which (he may force ft r ' uai
™ e into the field ; for thei-e is not a Swiss tx- t hat
e " ifting who does not burn to revenge the ft lc
u3 butchering of his brethren in the gardens at ber 0
Versailles." any i
l !? recol
?? VERGENNES, (Ver.) 03. 18. ty tc
1C an elegant and spirited ad- t he r
drefs, to the Prefidcnt cf the United States j 0 f s (
Vtt i highly approving his upright administration ri ,j eij
' as < and indicative of tha genuine feutiments of f HCC|
• the Legislature and Freemen of Vermont, for )
' r " ! was if parted in grand committee of both n y
: houses. This address, so highly honorable f wor
•he r tr) ftatrs fliafl be pubitihed when obtain- r ,
fed from lawful authority. -■ meir
, |
a , It is reported that the OfSce-buildmg or
llC ' r | Mr.. Joh-< Cask] of Foultney, was much on>
P 1 " damaged bra mob oi villains on the r3tb
co ' I illft. mmtf
< * iT j N. B. Mr. Cooi was a caadid, but
, premj/t witness against Matthrw Lyou on
j the state trial before the circuit court. ,==
'ax-, i
fee PRINCETON, (N. J.) 03oicr 2 9 ._
nch inhabitants of Princeton and its
,ie * vicinity, being informed r.f the arrival of
iub " General Charles C. ''iiekney, in the village,
aflVmbled in town meeting, where, having
> in g called to the cnair Robert Stockton, Esq.
it was unanim rnfly refolv.-d to present to the
' ! General an aJdrefs, teftifying their high ap- 10 ;
hird ! probation of his conduft as Env«v from Citi
i the United States to Fr»*c»: Fur this pur- TJj
' pole, the chairman, Mr. Enos Kelfey, the e(
I Rev. Dr. S. 8. Smith, the Hon. Richard '
* en Stockton, Esq. Tli#mas P. Johnfun, Efq,
: for Mr. John Harrifon, Dr. Ebensr.er Stock- the
ton, Dr. John Maclean, and Mr. Thomas im
Howe,were appointed a committee who were
,aa * empowered to wait upon hitn in the name
anr ' of the citizens, and pr.rfent to him the iol
bro" 1 iwinr CC
has, ADD RESS
cru- jj' ls Excellency GENEaAL Charles t
CoTESWORTH PINCKNEY, latt EftVOJ j
from the American Republic to the French
Nation.
' the SIR - aU
was, YOUR fellow citiz;ns, inhabitauts of cl
a 'J I6 Princeton and it« vicinity, congratulate y«u ea
con- w j l { l fjneerity and ardor, o* your fafe ret«rn P c
dfel
to the bosom of your country. Although j a "
the objc& of your milfiurrhas *of been ac-
complifhed, yet we believe that it could not 0
Icter- pofiibly have hsd a nsorc fortunate ifftie. It
ufiian ferv<d to inftrtidt a frank and bonell ar
many people to edimate the fmceriiy »f national j P'
friendftiips'. It has taught tliem to refpeft V
themselves, and to adopt tbefe decifire uaea- °
suras which can alone c»o:mand the refpeft
iknefs 0 f na tionß. Already have th« iufidiotis rulers
>n the 0 f p r a n ce changed their language and their
them con du£l. We k now. howev r, the infinite j]e
led to va riety of fliapes which gallic pelicy can as- tl
v " r y fume, and shall not fail to ellimate praperly f
fated t {, Q f e a flj of tpparenl juSice, which it has w
forti- j, een forced to adopt. The citisees of a
>t now America are too enlightened to be now de- b
iftence ce j ve d by such hypocritical ans, a»d tliey c
iftors. | i, ave too mU ch spirit not t» resent fa 'grots [ I
lei Ton a „ j n f u lt to their country. S
red by We h aV e seen with indignation, your d
overn-. countr y insulted in your person ; but we 1,
es for h ave also fee l with idmiration, the inflcsi- t
f their b i«, fi r the republican dignity, vith ]
iClion. w i u - c h y OU have aiTerted and liaintained her r
honour; the integriry-with which you have
operty rc fltlcd corruption, and the talents with <
1 teen y OB have baffled intrigue ;we have
public s een Wl 'th the exultation of patriotism, the (
>unds ; effefts produced by your clear and manly
e y ear developement of the arts and haftile difpofi
twen- t ; onSiP f a government as insolent as h is
r one oorrU p t ed. You have opened the eyes and
awakened the energies of voHr countrymen.
Americans, Sir, would fcohi to purclmfe j
<e Gar- p cacc by giving bribes to tyrants. Ihe • (
ravages os-war may be repaired, bu ihelofs i
ind of- 0 f honor is a loss which freemen have no i »»-# j
id Co- tQ e ftj ma te. Who could love or venerate his ;
country after (he had paid tribute to the j
refufe of the earth. i
taken rp^ e p r j nc ;pica of an infuriate and aban
at tr 7' doned nation were beginning to extend their \
lantfno" influsnce »o us, and had proceeded far to
nd from vitiate our moral ideas, and to weaken oui
political union. Happy are we to fee
those dangerous ties ftKally broken which
'S bte! y the corruption of France had already ren
prcfem dered rotten and infedions. That noble
r ";*~ en e r gy which you have contributed to rouse j
"an vou by yottr communications to the governmeot. (
we trust, you will fofter and augment by your (
presence. .
ith greatyy e f e e with pleaftire your high rank m j
the American army, in which, whenever it
w M (ball b4 necessary, you will defend with your
Saukla- sword those rights you have so well mam.
r or what tained by your diplomatic talents,
eus to Long may you live an ornamest to your
antlyon country, pofTeffing as you=now do, its admi
iper.) ration and its confidence.
Signed by order of a meeting of the i«ha
,d bitatus of Princeton aud its vicinity,
Kas been Robert Sloe I ton,
have J ap " Enos Kelfty,
' un e [ Samuel S. Smith,
•<rS2E «- r- 7*f
er.ee ai.»d Ebenezer Stockton,
aranteed John Harrifon>
1 hit the "John McLean,
f Tarea- Richard Stockton,
•*r< tUr ' ' Tboms T. How.
5 Princeton, o£t. 29.
, ; ; . H.
'To wf.ilh the Ge*;r:ti rr.urf.iJ the fallowing **!**
ahswer. . , (J
THE very indulgent ma-tner in which
my attempts to serve my country, as one i f ~
the lste Envoys to the French government,
have been received by my fello*.citizens, upr%
has amply componfated all the Chagrin and h e l) o i
anxiety I experienced in my million. If g
the eye» of my countrymen are at Wngth e ,
opened, if their virtuous energies are n«w yy fe|
awakened, and if nq rrlax .tion is permitted [WC)
in actual preparation for war, their liberties aV£
. and independence will be fafe. But any fu- m .
pinenefs in carryiug into execution tn« vigor- rj -^
ous tneafures decreed by oar country, or
r any remiSton from energetic conduft will, } lr [j
" in my opinion, endangsf our natioaal free-
dom. I mo't (incetely congratulate you,
s my friends, that you are no longer Uie in- j jj j
c (truaient* of Gallic delusion. It is time 101
" that America liiould be fdf-deptndant. If j; £y
c Hie is united and firm (he is able to maintain q q|
' her own sovereignty againtj the attempts of s ou
any nation in the univerfc,— And white she j ow
recolle£ts, and recollefting afts in conformi
ty to your real republican fentimsnt " that a^ s
the ravages of war mav be repaired, but the
s loss ef honor i 3 a loss which freemen have no j n j
n , rules to eftiniate," she mult inevitably be
,r fttccefsfal. Receive my mod grateful thanks j a[)
for your very kind and affcftionate tellimo- r.
'' ny of regard ; and be allured that when mv at?(
ie sword fliall drawn in support oi the jutt j u p
■" rig ta and claims of our country, the re- U p
, membrance of my reception by my tellow- j e ]
citizens ofPrincetun will mi»ie me drive to t j Q
" r deserve ths conti"ii*acce ut t; eir good opini
:jl oh. th<
Charles Cot'esworth Pincknby j g .
"n Sfeffiaseste*
PHTLJDK LPH IA , W
TUS»D 5V EVENING, QCT-OBEJt JO- by
—; tin
re, A lucceflion of icvere frofts ftrOtnifes m '
»g the- fpt«ly eradication of the larking
feeds of that fatal contagion which has ra
,p. so long confined our unfortunate fellow- of
jm citizens in gloonr/exild from their homes. ""
jr- The'\t*eath£r yesterday and to-day has
been as favorable as coukt be willed*, •
and should not our hopes be cut off by (I
,1c- the return of heat, which, however, is
nas improbable, contidering the advanced
ere state of the season, there is little doubt <,
,™j C that the city may be considered as per
fectly fafe,, sifter ths close of this week. S
Es The chattering Genevefe is, it seems, 5
' vr) « ! acain to bore cur ear* with hi* outlandilh s
n ' c j } j dialeft, and never-tiring patriotism. He
appears to have a lease hold of his feat ;
audhis conflituents seem proud to be " his
0 f creatures." His lingua franca possesses an t l
yeu enchanting influence over them, and inter. t
Bru pofei a cloud between their miry intelledts k
and thr sdasoniti ns of that better Genius ,i
g C . which eould rell them that their Patriot is a J
not foreigner, and of course unwtarthy their
j t fuffrages ; a preftituted and venal eiiiifTary, t
lie ((. and of course the general ?nemy -of their
onal j peace | ths feryant and flS*e of their dead
oeft 'y ar covenanted so?, and therefore th« fit
Bea- °kj their deteftatioa a<id abhorrence.
n '■ Even so, thro'Srtn'JorU town, a town of mud,
P e " An herd of brifly fwinc is prick'dalong."
tilers
heir The reprefentatioa of Pennsylvania is
inite left preCifcly in Jlatu quo by the result of '
n as- the recent elections. Robert Wain and
aerly Henry Woods Esquires. two gentlemen
: has whose tongues were n ver taught to utter 1
s ofiacrents extenuaiinsc 'he infu-lts of ottr
v dc-1 bloody and rcmorfelefs eveiny, have fuc
they < ceeded two impudent partifar-g of France.
jrols |ln Brown ari»i , the fucceflors of
IfefT. Sitgreaves and Chapman, two are ai
your ded to the blaci lift, Smiley succeeds Find
t we ley (Cafca in liew of Caflius) and Leib fills
Sesi- the chair to be vacated by M'Clenaclian.
with In the other diltricU, the old members are
i her return-re'.
have Major Thomas Pinckney, M. C-, from
with 'South Carolina, is unatiimdufly.re-elected,
hsve
, the Copy of a Utter froai Nice, 4th Sept. by
nanly the second officer in the Marine depart
fpofi- naent for thtf quarter of Ville-Frache, to
rt is the Infpetft'.r of the Marine, at Toulon,
sand „ j hasten to inform you, that»the ns
phew of general Kilmaine, who arrived here
C ™, at five o'slock tbis day, in a Felucca from
i r e ; Genoa, has broug'.t intelligence that a cor
'e ' vette, detached from our squadron, is arriv,
1 ' V '^ S ■ed at Civitta-Vecchia and hrought a dif
te J" i patch from general Buonaparte, for t lie
0 French general at Rome, the contents of
' which was, that after having effedted the
a , landing of his troops at Alexsadr'a, Bnoa
' tncir aparte nut.to f--a again to feck the Englilh ;
t0 that he came across them off the Heights
° f Ur of Messina, and gainfd a complete viftory
to . ." over their.. Five English lliips of the line
which f t u i n to the hands of the French, among
y rer !~ which nu.nber was Admiral Nelson's ship,
nob ' e who immediately bl:w out his own brains."
' roule j This fame officer added that he had heeri
imcut, i j- ent . from the 29th of- Augutl to
y y° ur 1 carry this interefling news to general Brune
. | at* Mila- As I was preftnt when this re-
V 1 port was made to the general of divifio*,
:ver it Q srn ; erj w ]j o commands this place, I de
-1 yo . ur termined to transmit it to ycu by the qtiick
maln' eft conveyance perfuadeJ that you will, ap
prove of my dispatch.
°r ' (Signed) GASQUET.
1 ' m| - True copy, r
. , The infpeftor of the marine at Toulon,
eißha - - (Signed) EVENS.
Netc. This intelligence was publifiied by
■ torch-light at Toulon, and read at the thea
'. , tre at Marseilles, the evening of the fete of
m '! l the 18th Fru£tLdor, sixth year.
ohnfon, Authorised by the commandant of Mar
laction, the h Fruftidor, l'.xth year.
>M> NOGUES.
True copy.
xiton, BALGNERIE, fits, President.
PAGtS, Chief Sesrttary.
■jjyljjtfi 1-in i■■ - "" L C
Com mit nu at i ons. I
«* Let frveur bt Jhvw-d ths wicled, yet Cathi
•wilt be not Itnrn righttoufvef:i in the bind of Cath
uprightnefi will be deal uuiuflly, and will net
behold the maje/ly of the Lord." '' r '
SURELY we must acknowledge the pro- Mar)
phet Isaiah to be poffefled of great forelight.
Who thought that a man, nearly
hundred years hack, should
have depidted so plainly, the charaQer of an
American jacobin. " Yet will he not learn R'
righteoufntftTruth is the cUcotial of 11 ai
rigliteoufnef*; truth has ' e?n continually
' hrtd up to thtir v,c«rl *hd yet, let trie alk,
what jacobin ii there who has committed its g
' leflbns to memory ? If men's minds would
bi searched, I fear the answer to this quef
'■ tion would indeed be melancholy; for 1 be
lieve the prcfent calm to be only deceitful. £
' Confounded by the raajefty of truth—con- f eve ,
founded at feeing it rife superior to their j a fl
e low-minded schemes, they remain almoll i
inaftive and fiUnt. But should the French ! E
1 again prove fucCefsful in de&roying the hap- ; ing I
e pinefs of aaotfaer people; or by their cunning, Eng
0 in injuriug us, we (hall then hear their yells , ten i
e from Mane to Georgia, and from the At-
s lantic to the Pacific ocean. "Jn the land, prev
of uprightnefi will be deal twjuflly." Little of C
If seed be laid to prove the jacobin horde un- j
just ; for rnen whose principles are founded prev
"" upon the "fimplc'vjrluci ' which the Fteneh dau
delight in, cannot be othervrife. Detrac- of N
? tio:i mult be acknowledged to be an uujutl T?
! principle; it is one of the leading traits in List
the jacobifiic chara&er. America mult, and 2
f is allowed by all the world, to be an upright J,
51 land ; but could jacobini have b. en believ.d. £
how icfaniom would 'he now appear. " And r^ o
= \uVl nst behold the majjlj of the 1 o-d."—
Wlien we fee a nation or p o;t£c abolishing
every principle which has bteh held sacred
by all the world ; when we fee them tramp
ling" an every moral.aod rel'gious ti*{ and, ', £
• more particularly, When wc hear their infa- j $
mous Utterances against the favioisr of man- ■ S
*8 kind ; this aphorism of Ifaiah'n is reverbe-; F
as rated with redoubled vigour: "In the land
,y- of uprightnefi Will be deal unjujlly. and will g
not beheld the mojefly of the Lord." ■
Z _. A *
1 (Sajettc t]3arinc %i(i. \
is 5
ec j New Gaflle, 02. 26. ,
, ♦ ARRIVED.
1 Ship George, Gibfon, Bordeaux, 34 days, J
er " no news.
:k. Ship Chesapeake, Webb, Liverpool and
Cork, (failed with the fleet)
ns - Brig A. Matilda, {Stiles, Mole 23
lift* Schr. Regulator,Shockly,N.Providcace, 20
He Ann, Longhead, with the mail from
it ; Charles, 10
hi' The A. Matilda failed from the Mole
an the 3d inft. with the lad British vessels from
ter- that port, the evacuation having finally ta- 1
:&» tea place that day ; mod of the flret went J
lius up to Jamai. a amonjft them was the Snow di
it a Po!!y, ier.kv, of Philadelphia. Capt. Stitcs p<
heir in company with the fallowing failed for at
iry, the continent : w
heir Ship Melpomene, Majeftre, Philadelphia at
?ad (below) 1
2 fit Schr. Gen. White, Myrick, do
nee. F>Ur Siftcl, Young, New-Yark ' x
d > Neptune, Clark, do J x
Capt. Denntnberger, from St. Übes, j 1
a ; s '.poke the I2th iuft. in lat. 38, 49, long, 67 ! 2
to f the fliip Juftioa, Mcrrot, of New, York, out | 2
10 days,from Baltimore, bcuniito Fa;mouth !
men alt upell. And in iat. 3S, 54, long 69, 20, ! t
ltter the sloop Britania, Youag, and 4 days koo) | 1
ntr Bolton to Bnrb^does.
| c A sloop belonging to Mr. Elder, from : 1
iPce Philadelphia, has been drove ash -re on the ; }
' 0 j- Caicos, nad deserted by captain aiwi crew, j 4
' afterwards got off by some Bri i('n seamen 1
«'j, and carried into i|j: Mole.
! jjjij Brig Lovely Lass, Shields, for La Gui- b
ra, went to sea on Wedntfday last.
s'are ■ Camc l
Sh'P Hamburg, Shcrtes, Hamburg a
Liberty, Hamaje, do.
from Fabius, Cormi) r.Jarfeira
tted. Benjamin Franklin, Jones, Hourueaux -
* Farmed, M'Collom, Cork
t. by Tviton. 3c>elcher, Bremen
part . Brig Susannah, Medlin, Arafter am
I Amiable Adeel, B. own, Port'au-Printe
'j 0 D4l'gent, Crnnin, Jamaica (
ulon. lvj C pt U!l c, Walters, Aux Cayes
ns Mtrpery, Trtieman, Nova Scotia, <
l] iere Capt. Priur of t'h« Charleston packet," who ]
r arrived at New-Gaftle on Friday 1 , reqnefts us to
r " state—That he-spoke the Delaware (hop of w.ir,
1 c ° r " capt. ©ecatur, 011 the E 6th inft cruizing ess
jrnv, Ciiincoteaguej all well. The packet being in
a dif- want of l'everal anictej, w Ja (applied by eaptain I
the Decatur.'^
its of
J the We hear that the MEDICAL LEC
-sno- TURES, in the Univerftty of Pennfylva
ejifh ; nia, will commence on the fccond Wed
rights nel'day of November next,
dtory '
: line
uoag DONATIONS,
(hip, g_ ;ce ; ve d a t the Encampment at Matter's
ll ' n3- place, for the use of the poor.
b eerl ■
,ft to Oftober 29.
U nin<; A bundle of infants cloathing, from a per
,;s re . son unknown.
•ifion ,vl ' o bundles cloathinp, _ from Mi Isaac
I dc'- Wnlters, Great Valley. *
n <?co of rye flour, from SAmj"-! Beneret, E.q.
ji ap . 100 of do. from Mr. Daniel Sfvins.
150 buckwheat meal, from Mrs Sarah Pax
•'V son.
100 rye flour, from Mr. Jofcph Redman.
n do. from \lr. William Cox.
,13 50 Ao. from Mr. JcfTe Scvins.
ic-d by 20 bushels indian m«ial, from Mr. John
thea- Swift.
. f , do. from Mr. Hartr.cn Titus.
2 do. from Mr. George Hicks.
M 2 do. from Mr. James Roberts.
2 do. from Mr. George Vanfant,
pc all of Bucks county.
John InHeep f
ttdent. * obt l 9 ' . ( mittee.
Isaac IV. Morru. J
4 '* v * •' \ j f- ** v* -h n'H
L CITY HOSPITAL REPORT*
From 39th ttv 30th Qiiobcr.
ADMITTED. < •",
Catharine I'.lllierop, Mary
Catharine Stanford.
DIED.
Andrew Shannon t Maty
Mary Lockart.
Interred from City Hospital J
Cuy and Liberties 4
1 »
Remaining in the Hospital 30, of wlwflJ -
11 arc on the recovery.
PHILIP S. PHYSICK.
Christopher Darrah, Steward.
By order of the Board of Managers.
WILLIAM JONES, Prefidcnt.
" Attest, Timothy Paxson, Clerk.
. t
EIGHT new cases of the prevailing
' ! fever, reported by 16 phyfiaans, for tho
' ' last 24 hgurs.
t I . —-
l ! Dt ed, un Sunday evening of the prevail'
ing fever, Mr. John Gilbert, a native of
, Englind : He returned to the city about
5 / ten days ago.
J , on the 13th of September, of the
i prevailing fever, Mr. Somon S'.veitzer, late
; of Chefnut Hill.
>, on the 13th of September, of thtf
1 prevailing fever, Miss Deborah Sweitzer
i dau'hter of Mr. Simon Swtitzer> and filter
. of Mr. H. Svveiiz.r, printer of this Ci:y
---1 List of all the Burials in the fevrral Gr.'iv*
1 Yards of the City and Libert::s of Phila
t delphia, as taken from the boohs kept by
Clergymen, S. xtcr.s,
[Collected for »!ir Osin rs oi ( : >e United
l>y ROB f"RT
T "" " - / *■"
* -5
Xdn:es the Burial Grourds. . j* |3
!* t Rlt
'»; Cr.t-i.-t cuuivh T ... « o
l " | St Peter's - o °
1- j St. Pauls - «
;.! Fidt Prefoyterian - - c ®
l( [ '■ Second Presbyterian -I - o "
■j. Third I'refijytenan ... : o
1 Sco:s Prefcyterian ... v o
Aflociate Church ... 00
St. Mary's Church - - - C o
Trinity Church - "or
Friends' .... - 00
Free Quakers' ... oct
Swedes' ..... 1 e
German Lutheran - 1 -
German Reformed Presbyterian 3 a •
Moravians' - - - c <3
Baptifts' ... . 01
fs> Methodists' .... o 0
j Univerfalilts' .... c o
Jews' ..... co
City Hospital .... 71
2 3 Kenfmgton .... 10
20 Coates's ..... 00
jm j- -— 1
IO Tutalfor tht last 14 hours Its' 4
ole ■
Dm United Statis ")
ta- PenHfylvanla DillriS. J '»
, TN purfuanec of a writ to me dire&ed f.6ai tho
1 honorable Richard Peters, ef.jr. jii-ijre of the
ow dillriii court of l!.e iiitJ-l Stare*, in »:>d so;- the
tcs PenHfy vjit a d tirifl \villt>e <»xp'.ij6 ito public f.le,
for at the b 'igh 01 Che.'er, in th. cocntf of Ue a
vvare, on Mo iday the jth <Uy oi N ivcmbsr next,
jjj a at 12 o'clock at toon,
) I large new cabU I j pieces of fail cloth
I do- worndo. t (hip's bell
1 X small do. do. 7 iroo bound wat:rcafk3
3ri 1 cable about t inches A diuuirjfc or frachiue
' 1 old do. 5 do. to press goods when
jes, 1 cnil or iord2'<e loudinjj
| i do of do. new ■> iron cranes
ou[ % louudiiij line« of nn>, i new fia^
; hundred ai-d fourteen 1 d». jick
u ■ aod fifty (athoras I pt.naa.it
20, j main fail 4 ctpper kettles and liir
roil) I 1 fpte-top.fail % tea kettle*
! 1 main-tee fail I coffee Ve: tic
rom - ' f>* A small copper pot Sclid
• | 1 uuin-tcpftay fail 4 cvmuaff »
: 3 ftudding-iailj 1 [ma'.l anchor
ew, 1 4 under ltuddiug fails Ji c-i&s of rum and aboit:
men | I fun fail 19 cifci o'. sugar.
The article aforefaid being now on b;.ari ths
sui- brig Speciala3ioij at Chester, in the port of
Philadelphia and dißriit of Pcmifylvania—l'he.
fame having bees ftv-:d from the v.-re aof th&-
Uaaith Ihip Den Godehenligh. at fca. ai d libelled
3ur S againtt for filvage.
°\ WILI.I AM NICHOI.S, Maifhal.
" tlli Marihal's office, Got, 35.
;aux '
POST OFFICE,
-, m Philadelphia, 29th OBober, 1798.
inte LETTERS for theßritifliPack
jaiea et or F a l mout h) will be received,
coiia. at this office until Tuesday the 7th
who November, at 6 o'clock, P. M.
N. B.—The inland to
P off New-York must be paid at riis office.
>g in
ptain T q BE R£NTED,
( And immediate pojf-ffton given,,)
EC- a LARGE three fio.-y BRICK IIOUSE«
jf\. situate in \V r alnut-ftreet —The rooms are'
Ved* commodious, airy and private —fr im which,and
its central fituat on, it is thought to be an eligi
ble situation far a Public Office. For terms, en
quire of BENJ. iV, MORRIS-
Atfo A commodious Ware Houle, in lay
l,or'« Alley.
Her's Oaobertj. juvivf
Printing Work,
p«r Q r y ver y Kind,
rr aac EXECUTED AT THE SHORTEST
llaac NOTICE,
-c At the Office of the Gazette of the
Efq* Unitfd States,
ins. oa. 15. ™
Pax " &• The Subscribers have remove
ed for the present from Penn street to Eievemh
lan' street, betvvten i'ilbtrt and Iligh-ftreets.
Willings Francis.
a ß£: «ft 9 * ,w
John
Madeira Wine.
'itus. A few pioes <>f remarkably fine MADEIRA '.VIN'E
cks. lit for immediate use, and at a reduced pn c--for
.erf. .aieby J
ifant, -
PETER BLIGHT
'om- HAS amoved his Cointicg Houfi to hit Hci'fe
u.,, in the Ncrth-m Liberties neai Hue Vown, (»<r
mantowr read. anjjjft it.PROPOSALS,
BY THE j
Insurance Company qf North America. ,
For In furance against Fim, on Dwelling- J
Houses, Ware-Houses, and other Buildings (and
on Goods cntKs.Uied in such Buildings) distant from
Philadelphia, in the United States.
f Common Tnfurar.ce*, on hazards of the flrft
class, will be undertaken at a premium of about
hall per cent, per annum. For extra V&ardous '
rifqnes a larger prcrr.iam will be required, which .
will vaty according to fcidom ex- !
ceeding one per cent, per annum ; but In some in- ,
(lances, where the property insured in not only in
itlclf extra hazardous, but rendered dill more so
by the vicinity of extra hazardous buildings and
occupations, the premium demanded will be railed
according to drcumftar.ces.
Houles and Ware-Houses, the walls and parti
tions of wbich are wholly of flone or rick, well
conftruded, so as to ba guarded as well asmay be
against fires from within, and tree from extra ha
zardous buildings and occcupations in their neigh- (
borhood, will be deemed hazardous of the firft
class, a"d may be infnred to thciffflll value.
■Mfo Goods and Merchandize, not ot an extra -
hazardous kind, in calks, bales, or package*, de
politcj in such buildings, to an amount not ex- t
ceeding 4000 dollars ; but if more than this fnm
is required to be insured in one tenement, an
tional premium will be required, in proportion to '
circumstances.
II- Infnrances will also be made on buildings and 1
Roo-i extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned (
tothorifque. But it is not easy to arrange these 0
under )'Tr»iciilar heads n r clafle*, so as to describe f
each with the necessary accuracy. Each caf-'. must
therefcrr be decided upon accordingto the circum- ti
it ; and these drcumftanccs wili, a
in general, appear from the description accompa- '
uying tl ew.ulicatioD 3
Kuildir.® partly eondrudrd of brick or stone, '
are preferable to these wholly wooden. And in
both cases, the ltile of builiiir.g, how they are oc- i
CHpied, how they are fituatcd, the neighboring a
buildings, and how occupied, are considerations to a
be taken into view. And withrefyeS tagoods, -
their tendency, whether from their nature, or r
from the manner in which they are exposed, either -
to commence or to increase an accidental fire, ai d T
their liability in such date *0 receive damage by n
wet, or by sudden a-d hasty removal, or to be fto- '
Icn in tirtie of conl'ufion and htirry, are all cir- e
cumftances of weight 5 and the premiums must be
proportioned accordingly. n
111. The fo'llowirtg conditiont are to be under- v
flood by the parries . ''
id. The Insurance is not binding till the ftipu
lateil premium be paid ; but it (hail be deemed cf- A
fedua! from tbe time of such payment and accrp- '
ranee thereof, whether the policy be immediately c
signed or not.
id. Ir.fiirancss may be renewed at the cxpira- 0
tion of the term of the policy, without further ex- ''
penfe« than the payment of thu premium of the re
newed term, the circumdances continuing the fame l '
as they were underftood-by the Insurers at the time
the former irfiirance wis made ; but the payment 0
of the premium is eflential to such renewal; and "
if the party insured fuffers any time to elapse after P
the expiration of the former insurance, before he
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured n
during such time ; Hor can the insurance berenew- Cl
ed en the former policy but by computing the
commtneement of the renewal from the expiration Cl
of the former insurance. The fubjed of infur- P
anee 9iay nevertheless be open to treaty for a new
insurance. w
3d. If any other insurance be made on the fame f
property ; it mud be made known at the time of
application, othenvifc the policy made on such ap
plication will be void.
4th Goods held in trust, or 011 coufignnient, n
raay be infursd as such in a separate policy ; but t:
thev are no* to be cor fidered as insured stherwife. P
tb.'»isis con-.pa-ny will not be liable or accoun- C
tabic tor any left or damage occasion 'd by any (or- n
eign iivvalion, ovbyaiy military or usurped force
or by POtifon of any civil commotion ; or occasion, 1 '
ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or other thing of th- 0:
like kind kept in the building, or amongll the pro
perty insured. u
6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu
rities Title Du.-ds, Money, Bank and other pro- H
miffary Notes, are not included in any insurance ; ft
nor are paintings, medals, jewels, gems, antique
ouriofities, or mirrors exceeding the valae of twen
ty-five dollars each, to be confidercd as insured une
less particularly mentioned aad by special agree
ment.
;th. No insurance will be made for a fliorter J
tfrm than one year, nor for a longer term than fe- 01
vea years. I'erfons choofiog to inf»re for seven T
years (hall b callowed one year's premium by way
of difeount: One third of a years premium (ball n;
be abated in like manner on an insurance for e <
three years. a
Bth. Losses fuftaincd by fire»n property insured, n ,
(hall be paid in thirty days after due provf and li- ft
quidation thereof, without dedudion. c ]
A defci iption of the property to be infurod will a
be expeded with each application, to be made by f;
a reader carpenter and signed by him, as well as v
by tht owner of the building 01 applicant for in- »
furance, and atteded before a Notary or principal ft
Magidrate, who will certify his knowledge of the p
parties and their credibility. „
With relped ta House" anil other Buildings. e
lit. Ihe site and p'ofition ; describing the fl
ftr«et or road on or near which the building 2
iUntls ; its contiguity to water, and other cir- si
c.umlUnces relative to the extinguilhment of fire
in cafe of accident; and particularly whether e
any and what fire companies are eftablilhed, and b
engines provided, in the place or neighbourhood. P
ad. The materials of which it is built, whe
ther of brick, stone or wood, and what part of
each, as well as to the outside walls as inside or
partition walls, and their refpedive height and
ihickneii; the style of the roof and of what
miterials ; how secured by battlements or par
ty walls; what kind ps access to the top of the I
house a».d to the chimniet ; whether any and
what eledrie rods ; the number and kind of
fire places ; and the kind of deposit for allies.
3d. Ihe dimenftons of the building and how
divided, and the style in which it is f.nilhed so
as to enable indifferent perfens to judge in what
manner it is to lie repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury; the .ige and condition of the boilding,
and bowoccßpied, whether merely as a dwel
ling house, or for any other, and for what par
poi'e , also an estimate of the value of the house
or byilding independent of the ground. !
4th. The situation with refped to other build*
» ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at leait one hundred feet .
each way : what kind of buildings are within
that distance, how built, of what materials, and
how occupied or improved, whether as dwel
lings for private families or otherwise : whe- ;
ther any and what trade or manufadtory is car
ried on, and particularly whether there be any
extrahazardous articles used, or usually depo
lited in the house, or within the distance afore-
J"aid,and of whit kind.
Rtfpeding goods in Houfes,-Warehoufes, Btc.
1. A pe'neial description of the building in
which tfcry are kept will be expeded, similar in
all refpedt, a> to the danger from (ire, with that
required for Insurance on the buildings them-
U ' 2 "a description of the kinds and nature of
tl.e goods, whether in ca&s or oiher packages,
or opened ; and whether ilifplayed in whole
pieces or ir. the ul'ual form fcr Aurl
I' if ttiegoo.-'i vary materially in kind, a general T
eflimate of tfc* value of each kind proposed to
i'C insured ; but in he latt p., ticular minute
I refs of liefcripticn i« not expelled.
I 3. Articles of the following kinds are deem
' led extra hazardous, though in various degree*,
" t in whatever bailing tbty may be placed, viz.
' pirch, ta^,turpentine, robn, wax, tallow, oil,
1 inflammable spirits, sulphur, hemp, flax, cotton,
dry g«ods of an inflammable kind opened.'—
t Glass, china wire or porcelain, especially un
packed; Looking glafies, jewelery ; and ill o
. . ther articles mora than commonly inflammable,
, or rr ore than cemmonly liable to injury by fud
. j den remc*,»J.w by maiftures, or particularly
. obnoxious t« theft on an alarm of fire.
, I Letters poll paid, diredlsd to the Secretary nf
, the Board of Diredors, will be duly attended
! to. An order for lnfurar.eeaccocrpar.wd by the
1 means of paying the premium, will be imme
diately executed on the premium being paid. If
tbe application contain an enquiry only, it will
I be. answered.
: By order of the Board,
EBENEZER HAZARD, Sec'rj.
Office of the Insurance Company «_/" Nortk 7
• America ; Philad. Feb. I, 1798. j
Feb. 14. iamtf
Mills, Portage, &c.
' TO SE LF.ASED FOR A TERM OF YEARS.
TO be leafed, for a terra not ttfs than three,
nor more than seven years, a V ALUABLE
1 PROPERTY at the Seneca-Fall', in the county of
[ Ononda£o,a nd flat? of New-York, on the Banks
of the Seneca-river, twesmites weft of ths Cayuga
ferry, and eleven miles call of Geneva.
This edablilhment confifls of au excellent grid
mill, saw mill, dwelling house, barn, and a port
, age or carrying place, with between thirty and
forty acres of land, under good improvement, and
as much more in the vicinity, as may be required
, for future improvement.
The grid mill is a handsome, new and well fin
ifhed building, of jo by 30 feet, 3 (lories high
an 3 fumifhed with a run of excellent Burr done*
and another of Efopns' stones, of the'bell quality
and the mod: approved bcults, Sc. calculated to
maktf all the different qualities of flour for expor
tation or for home consumption : Itis acceffiUle hf
water from every part ot the Cayuga lake an<i Se
neca-river, as well Be frona the Seneca-lake—and
fromits situation, commands a veryestcjifive and
encreafiog caftom : The dream on which it stands,
being the outlet (5f thi/ Seneca-lake, til; mill cau
never V>c in want of water ; and as it has been kept
working durivg th* fevered season of the lad win
ter, it is not liable to be impeded by fr»ft 1
The saw mill is also new, (ituateii on the fame
dream, now furniflied with an ample stock of
logs, of which a supply may at all times be pro
cured by land or water, of the bed quality ••
Tiie dwelling house is well calculated for the use
of the miller, is new, and fufficiently laige : The 1
barn is about 40 feet fquara, and entirely new :
The portage is 3*4thsof a mils in lenpth, along 1
the Seneca-falls—over which were-paffed ill the
lad year, nearly two hundred b«ats with their i
contents ; this objcA is already productive of a
handsome income, which ir uft be increasing and
permanent:
Among the many advantages of thijfituition,
mud be numbered the fertility of the fun ounding
country—-being the bid improved part of the coun
ty nf Onondaga—th; concentration of inter
coarfeby land and water, the-Geneflce dateroad
pafiing through it, as well as all waier carriage to
Geneva, and the counties of Ontario and Steuben ;
which renders it a mod eligible (land fcr a Store or
Tavern—The river ami lakes abound in fifh and
fowl, and the country with deer and other game.
Bolides the mills already eroded at this place, it
iscalculated for any additional water works that
maybe found neceCLry—Falling mill, batk mill
tannery, forges, &c. may be ereded at a small ex
pence—lron ore may be brought in boats Irom the
Cayuga lake ; and it is thought to abound in ths
neighborhood.
The flock on hand w : ll be fold to ths lessee, and
the cattle, utensils, smith's forge, Sec. may tefold
or let the premises.
If apurcbife flinuld offer for the whola or an |
undivided part of the premises it will be fold.
F»r terms of sale or lease, apply t» mr. Wil
hxlmus Mtnberse, at the Stneca falls, or to the ■
fubferiber, at ScheneAady.
STEPHEN N. BAYARD.
June 1.; aawam
, Federal Mills, ■
A DJOINING Georgetown, and ths City of '
jtjL Wadiingten, will be offered at Public Sale, '
on the loth day ef September next, at the Union
Tavern, if not previously fold at Private sale. '
Those millsin point of situation for baGnefsand
natural advantages are generally admitted to be
equal to any in America. The Merchant Mill is
a large brick house, eighty feet by fifty, almod
new, in which are ere&ed four pair of Burr mill
stones with elevators, hopperboys and baiting j
cloths, complftely finifhed and conftruded in such 1
a manner that the whole of the mills may manu. '
failure flour at the fame time. The country mill
which is ereded near the other, is entirely r.ew, 4
a strong stone building, containing one pair of 1
stones, and built in such a maimer that the fecoad 1
pair may be put up wkh little expence. This mill
is conveniently finished, and calculated to carry on '
extend vely, country work, of which it gets a con- 1
ftant supply. Vhere is belonging to v.e said mills ]
27 4 acres of land, the whole of which will be '
fold with the mills.
One third of the purchase money will be rcquir- 1
ed in Gxty days from the day of sale, and for the '
balance a liberal credit will be given. Further '
particulars will be made known on the day of sale, '
JOSEPH E. ROWXF.S, '
Surviving partner of
JOSEPH E. ROWI.ES & Co. '
Georgetown, july 13. 43 —3awts 1
LANDING,
AtSeuth Street wharf, the cargo of the fliipCon
nedicut, from Batavia—
About 300 tons of Java Coffee,
o(thegtowthofi;94and 1795
60 tons of Java Sugar,
In canniders—for sale by
: PETES SLIGHT,
, WHO ALSO OfFIRS FOR SAL*.
150 hhds. ehoice.|atnaica Sugars
Jamaica rum in hhds
; Brandy itt and 4th proof Sn pipes, hhds.
and quarter calks
Madeira in pipes
Old Batavia Arrack
t fo'y * §
J John Haines Wm. Jones,
T) EG leave to inform theirfriends and the public,
. D that they have commenced a Co-partn«rlhip
. in the SADDLING BUSINESS, which will ia
future be carried on under the firm of
. HAINES Cs* JONES,
- n Market flreet, No. 131, one door above the
Corner of Fourth, —where they presume (at lraft <
. to hop?) that their attention to, and knowledge in I
1 bufinefj, thiir determination to serve on the best |
j terms, and their known attachment as Native A
t mericans to the Government and Csnditutiou of
. their Country, will entitle them to the encourage
ment of a generous public. Although they csn
i- not boa it of having acquired their experience in
any part of Europe, yet they take the liberty of'
* pledging themfclves, that their sianufa&ure ftal j
be inferior to none in this ci'y.
junc 16. tuthstf
DUTY on CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby given,
THAT agreeably to an ael of Congress of the
United States of America, pal Ted at Phila
delphia the 18th day of May, 1796, laying du
ties oncarrwge« for the conveyance of persons, and
repealing the forwer aAs for that purpose—That
there wiall he levied, collected and paid, upon all
tarn ges for the conveyauc* of perfsns, which
Stall be Kept by or for any person, for his or her
own use, or to Ist out to hire, or for the convey
ing ef paffeiigcrs, the several duties and rates fal
lowing, viz. doils.
For and upon every coach IJ
' upon every chariot I *
upon every poll chariot 11
upon every poll cha.fe I»
uponevery ph-ston, with or without top 9
upon every coachee 9
uprri other carriages, having pannel
work above, with blinds, glaffcs, > 9
or curtains J
upon four-wheel carriages, halving T
frame pods and tops, with (leel > 6
springs j
upon four-wh»el top carriage*, with ">
wooden "or iron springs on jacks j
upon curricle; with tops 3
upon chaiiei with tups 3
upon chair, with tops 3
upon sulkies with taps 3
upon other two wheel top carriages 3
*pon two wheel carriages with ileel?
or iron springs j ,
For and upon all other two wheel carriages 4
upon every fosr wheeled
having framed pods and tops, > z
and resting upon wooden spars j
The Collector of the revenue ol thefiril ditfifion
of the firft survey of the diftrift of Pennsylvania, '
will attend daily until the 30th day of September '
next, for the purpose of receiving the duties on
carriage*, at Gerniantown, cn the Main street, a '
little above the sign of the King of Pruflia, ef : '
which al! persons poifelfed of such carriages are '
desired to take notice. '
Notice is also given,
To all reta'l dealers in wines and foreign distilled
spirituous liquors, that licenles will be granted to
them ; one licence for carrying on the business of '
retailing of Win sin a less quantity, or in lets '
uantities, than 30 gallons—and one lie-lift' for 1
airying on the fcufinefc of retailing spirituous li- '
quors in less quantities than twenty gallons, at the '
fame time and at the ft.me place, by '
JAM EH AMI, <
Collector ef the ill division of the ifl
Survey of the dittriS of Pennfylvaiiia. I
Office of Inspection at Germantown, ") t
»2d August, 1798. j t
gy~ Every denomination of Stamps to be had f
at said office. c
&• The Stamp Press is removed t
to the Office of InfpcJiion in Germantown, on the 2
Mail, r r»rt, a little above the fig:i of the King o( r
PrufEa,-» where attendance will be given for the (
ascommodation of those whn wilh any inHmments c
ilamped, on Tuesdays, Tfcurfdays and battrdsys. r
ugu-ta n c
For Sale at Public Auction, [
ON THE PREMISES, ,
FOUR LOl'S 011 Harper ;nd Keith's wharf, in c
Alexandria, on the «6th day nf Odlober 3
next, if not fold at private sale before that ti«ie. (
One of thffe lots is near the end of the wharf, r
twenty feet beyond which the water is two farh«ms f
deep, about forty feet out th'ee fathoms, fifty feet
out the water is four fathoms, and grows deeper J
until it comes to the channel, whi;h is fev- 1
enty feet from the end of the whart. There is
as much dirt belonging to the bank as wiil level
the wharf, which may want raising about a foot 1
rear the end. There js in this sale ati half acre lot '
very fit for a tavern ;it is well watered, and an ex- 7
cellent (land for that business. This property will 0
be fold for ready money, and al ogetheror tepar- e
ate, as may heft furf the purchaser ; it lays on the r
lower fide of Alexandria, which is now improving fl
very fall:. A flcetch of the ground may be f.en in t
the hands of the Priater hereof. For terms at t
private sale, apyly to Wji Hartshqrne, or to f
the futferiher, inAlcxandria. |
JOHN HARPER. y
■ September 3 lawßw t
Wants Employment,
A YOUNG MAN, who hasferved a regu-
lar apprenticelhip to the mercantile bufi- •
ness in this city, wilhes to engage in a Couutipg \
house or offic«, writes a good hand and under
stands accounts, can be well recommended and J
security given if required. Enquire at the
office of this Gazette.
.i u "g " jawtf
Ba&cnridge—for sale
IT ronlifts of ojo acres, almost Ml of which is
a fins rich Meadow, (the refidcucaof the late 1
Eerl of Sterling). It may he conveniently abided
into five farms, four of which are bomdedou the
Eatl by the river Pafaick.
Th-ri" are on ita number of buildings, forming
jjfquare of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
is a very convenient one andjafmallexpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard conCfis of 1500 finsbearing enjjraf.
Ed Apple Trees—and there is on other p-erts ot said
trait near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a grelt t
varieiy of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
bed and mod delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
Forest Taeos, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its situation is about 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
frem Morris-Town, and i» front Springfield lt
is wooded and watered.
To Dive trosble, the price is five pound pr. acre
ia calh, on delivery of the deeds. Please to En
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chefnut treet. '
eboiary a. eoriH
Patent Ploughs, i
TO bf <old for cash by Joseph Salter at Atfion ,
Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry—Jonathan
Barker, Woodbury—and Jefc Evans, Lumber
ton, Those who have used them give them the
preference to any other kind, as they require
lass team, break the ground better are kept in
order at less txpence and are fold at a cheaper
rate—the plan is much Amplified and confifU of
but one piece of cast iron, with the handles and
beam of wood; they may befixed with wrought t
lays and coulters to be pet on with screws and -
taken off at pleasure ,
Patent rights for vending with inftmtfions for ]
mak.ng them may be had by applying to John i 1
Newbold, or the fubferiber No. North 1
Front-street. <
IVho has for Sale;
Or to Lease for n term of 7ears,
A number of valuable tradls of Land, well ■
situated for Mills, Jron or Firms, most
ly improved, lying chiefly in the county nf Hun
tingdon rtitt of Pennsylvania. Those who may 1
1 incline to view them will please to apply (i '
John Canan esq. near Huntingdon. '
Charles Newbold.
i u 'r '> zawtf I
To be Let,
An airy three Story Brick House
ON the South fide of Filbert Street, between 1
Eighth »nd Ninth ftre«t, formerly* oJupW
as me Surveyor General s O Ace—Enquire at No.
t Jl, Chefnut Street.
»« s «aio • WJt
{'
AN ACT
For the relief of the Refugees from the Bntifh
provinces of Canada and Nova-Scotia*
T) E it enabled by the Senate and Hou/e
e scc " *• 13 of Representatives of the United
- States ef America, tn Congress assembled, "Jhzi
- fatisfy the claims of certain persons claiming
<1 lands under the resolutions of Congress, of the
lt tVrcuty-third of April, one thousand seven hun
'' dred and eighty-three, :nd the thirteenthoopf p
April, one thousand seven hundred and eighty*
r five, as refHTees from the Britilh- provinces cl
Canada and Tlova-Scotia, the Secretary for the
Department of War, be, and is hereby autho
s" rized and direfled to give notice in one or more
of the public papers of each of the States of
* Yermsur, MalTachufetts, New-York, New-
Hamplhire and Pennsylvania, to all persons hav
* ing claims under the slid resolutions, to tranf
-9 m'it to the War-office, within two years after
the pafiing of tJi'» a<9» a just and true account
n of their claiin3 to the bouuty of Congress.
Sec. a, And be it further enaHed, That rio
other p.erfons (hall be- entitled to the benefit of the
6 provisions of this aft, than those »f the fallow
ing descriptions, or tfceir widows and heirs, viz.
Fir®, those heads of families, and single per
son», net members of ar.y such families, who
3 veere rcfidents in one of the provinces aforef.iid,
3 prior to the fourth day of July, one thousand
3 (even hundred and seventy-six, and who abati
-3 doned their lettlcments, in consequence of hav
-3 ing given aid to the United Colonies or States,
3 in the revolutionary War agaisft Great-Britain,
or with intention to give such akl, and contir.u
---1 ed in the United States, or in their service, dur
ing the said war, and did not return to reside in
1 the dominions of the king of Great-Britain,
prior to the twenty-fifth of November, one
thin find seven htind -ed and eighty-three. Se
r' condly, the widows and heirs of all such per
, funs as were a<Sual relidents, as iforefairl, who
, abandoned their settlements, as aforefaid, and
f died within the United States, or in their fer
» vice during the said war : 4II per
sons w-ho were m«nbe;s of families at the time
of their comiwg into the United States, and who
. during the war, entered into their fervi. e.
Sec. 3. And he it further enciHed, That the
j- proof of the several circumSauces necessary to
s entitle the applicants to the benefits of this afl,
. may betaken beforea judge o thefupremeor
. diltriff court cf the United States, or a judge
. of the supreme «r fupcrior com t, or the fiift jus
tice or firft judge of the coiirt of common pleas
- ftr pnnrty roitrt^of"any State."
See. 4. And be it further ennSed, That at
the expiration of fifteen monthi from and after
the of this adl, and from timet ! time
thereafter, it (hall be the duty of the Secretary
for the Department «f War, talay fa:h evi
dence of claims as he may have r" eived, before
the Secretary and Comptroller of the Treasury,
and with them, proceed to examine the testi
mony, and give their judgment what q-iantity
1 of land ought to be allowed to the individual
claimants, In proportion to the degree of their
refpeflive services, faciiftces and fufterings, in
consequence of their attachment to the cauie of
the United States ; allowing to those of thefiril
cWi a quantity not exceedinfone tWmfandacres ;
and to the last class, a quantity not exceeding
oaf hundred, making fuel: intermediate clafies
as the refolutiofs a!o/cf.ii(l, and diOrihutive jtif
tic#, may, in their judgment require, and make
report thereof,, to CongVefs. At'd in cafe any
fucr. claimant shall have fuftainsd such loffts and
fufferings, or performed such services for the
United States, that he cannot jultly be clafftd
in any one general class, a fcpsrate report rfi ill
be made of his circumstances, together with the
quantity of land that ought to be allowed him,
having reference to the foregoing ratia : Pro
vided, that in considering what ccmpenfitien
ought to be made by virtue of this aft, a*l grantst
except military grants, which may have beetv
made by the United States, or individual States,
shall be considered at the just value thereof, at
the time the fame were made, ei
ther in whole or in part, as the cife may be, a
fatisfa<£lion to those who may have received the
lame: Provided alfa, that no claim undsr this
law, shall be allignahle until after report nude
to Congress, as aforelYtd, and until the said
lands be granted to the persons entitled to the
benefit of this ail.
Sec. 5. Beit further enabled, That all claims
in virtue of said resolutions of Congress, which
(hall not be exhibited as aforefaid, within the
time by this ad limited, ffijll forever thereafter
be barred.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of ibe House of Representatives
TH : JEFFERSON,
Vitc-Preftient of the United Slates,
1 and President of the Senate.
Approved, April 7, 17518.
1 JOHN ADAMS,
Prudent of the Unii+l States.
Dspofited among the Rolls is th« office of the
; Department cf State,
Timothy I'tdccamo,
' Secretary of State.
I PurftMut to the abne Ad, No
: tiee is hereby given to all persons hav
ing claims undei; the resolutions of Con
-1 g.-efs, cf the 23d of April, 1783, and
[ the 13th of April, 1785, to tranlinitto
. the V, ar-Office within two years after
the pal Ting ol the said Aft, viz. the 7th
: day of April, 1798, a just and trus ac
count of their claims to the % :unty of
. Congress.
In the proof of Claims, a fcrict atten
tion must be paid to the requiiitions of
| the 2d and 3d Sections of the Act.
1 JAMES M'HENRY,
- Secretary of War.
' J"'y "} ;aiv6w
AURORA OFFICE,
r 03oler 10, 1798.
'■ Reports having been circulated
1 th l f J HE AURORA not to be rc-f übliihed,
1 —The public -re hereby refpeafnly informed
that the want of hands alone has pr:vcf,t:d its re
r publication f. vctil days ago; but that such ar
, | rat geme .u are now making will assure the »p
---1 P'arance of the paper in t.be course of the present,
or the firft week of the next month.
• 5 ?t
1 Mails for South-Carolina iff Georgia,
- IP A £?,? T6 ® rc :l " w provided for carrying the
- j f"ubhc miilsby water between Philadelphia
and Charleston. i'hey will leave Philadelphia
[ cm Friday s. 1 hepoft by land will Ue crmtinu
td twice a week until an experiment i» made i :1
regard to the expedition and regularity of the
packets. If any person chufes" to have their
_ letters lent by Un 4 only, they will pleafr to
W'rite the word Land upon tlu letters : other-
W 'if be , feat by that conveyance which
i ter ' £t, crs ire left ia the
5 polt-effice.
J Joftph Haberjham,
Pofi-Mafler Gemetl.
Philadelphia, Augufi 13, 1758.
I'
This Day Publijhed
And for file at the Office of the F,v.
, 119 Chcfnut-flrtet, ®*
■d ( IZ' n ß n ° f a DrJlar >)
i OR J T 1
Pronounced July 4 j, 0 o
>e of the of the Town a s
BOSTON, in commemoration nf ,1 *
rf verfary of American Independence Mn "
f' u TI ■ 2° %!>thct.
of , rhe '. nro * d * upon our public lib ertv ..
for reparation—The wrongs we hau» r n •
I. call for -Justice. That Ke D Trl J J, " cd '
re rr:2 y yet be obtained, by Unl* St-*
of and Firmness But to di-vid e and cenquel""'
v the maxim of the Mevil in the garden t£j
a»d to tf'/Wf* and hath been . ®*»
:: treasury department,
"fSjorrcF. IS hereby given! Vhl'r T*'-'
10 • tue an during the prefem- f'r"
° »f Congress, Co much of the a T/n, I
d ? "An A A making further pro-ifiL?
" port cf public credit, and for th- rtde '
« of the public debt"—pa(Ted th» fh' j n
'■ March, one thousand seven hundred and
s > t'-% as bar, from fettl-ment o r ail ". 5 "
Certificates, commonly called Loan Off,
1- final fetfienaeiit Certificates, and "den* J?®
r- ferefls, is suspended until the twelfth div »
,1. June w Jich v.-ill be in the year one tlroufand leven
I, hundred and ninety nine.
' C r -V? the " < l" idati "" »"d fett'ement of the
e- said Certificate, and Indents ofTnierd, « the
r- J rcafurv, the Creditors will be entitled m,w
0 Certificates of funded Three Per Cent Stock -iuL
id to the amount of the said Indents, and the arrea"
r . ages 01 intCr<;ft due on tlieirfaid Certificate, prior
- f° tl ! s "° f J anuar y one thousand seven
[C hundred and ninety one.
0 i'batthe principal fumsof the said Loan Office
and final lettlcmect Certificates, with the interest
e m?' fI " CC t ' le£ , rft da y ol January, one thou-
P t f"en Hundred and ninety one. will bedif
clurgcd after liquidation at the Treaftiry, by the
» payment of interest and rcimburfinient of' nrinci
pal, equal to the sums which would hive been
r thxr&a. if the said Certificates had been
■ fubftriberi, purW to the Ails miki.ig p rov ifio«
lor the debts of tlio united States, contra&cd dur
mg the Utc »it, ahUsjr ihtjanim (; f other
t funis, cqn! ro the n»arket vMue of the remaining
r Stock, vhich would have been created Ly ftich
e furfcripUo'-fk-as..' r, ; f ••, which market value will
y be determined by th Colsfclru|J«r of theTreafury
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
c . . Secretary cf the Trcafurn
> J L ' ne . lawtf
V . General Pofl-Office, ~
'' •P R t??*y?4M !or r4rr V in g mails of the
r X United on the following routes will
n be receivi-j a t thKefTice until the aoth day of
f September next ine'.afive.
It 1- From Pittfburg P.by Canaonfburg, Walh
, in-ton, Wheeling and Will.-
g tov nto Zan, s .at the mouth of Licking-creek,
» t ' lte Mu|kin||nm, estimated Homiles.
Leave Pittfburg every Friday at s p. M . and
e arrive at Zanes tbt next Monday by Bp. m
y Returning—L-. nve Zanw every Tuesday at j
J a.m. and arrive at Pittfbjrg the next Fri lav b*
e to A. M. f
1 a. Fruni Zantf, at the mouth of Licking
1 Cr;iek on the fiiiflfingum, by Chilicothe and
e MaiTey's to MayfviHe in Kentucky ; estimated
( 140 miles.
Leave Zant-s every Toefday at $ A. m. and
1 arrive at Mtyfvdlc the next Friday by 10 A. M,
4 Returning—Leave Mayfville every Friday by
v IP. M-. and arrive at Zaneithe next Moadjy b>-
t BP.M.
t The of the mails tocommence on the
. firft day of November next and continue until
j (he fir ft day of o<sV>bcr 1800. Payment# will
e be made quarterly.
5 The ulual peiiahies for delays and failures will
t be stipulated in the contrail.
Joseph Habcrjhaniy
t _ Pcjl-Mafter General.
Philadelphia. July tj, 1798. m&th'>w
' HEALTH OFFICE '
r Phuadelpbia, l/I May, 1798.
Extrad of an aiS to alter and amend the Health
Laws of this Commonwealth, palfed 4ih April
1798.
Seil. 8- A ND I ' e ' C fur;l '- er cn: " f '. dby the au
■L\ therityaforefaid. That every house.
keeper within the city «f Philadelphia, the town
fliips of the Northern LiLierties and Moyamanfmg,
aod diftriA of Eeuthwark, within a mile of the li
mitsof the city, taking in boarders arriving by sea
or by land, from any foreign port or place, andha
vinga.iy l»ard«r iuhisor her family, who fijall be
taken lick oi say difcafc »Iwifoever, between the
firft liav of May aud the firft day of November in
any year, within twenty day. next after such boar
der ihall cottl» to )(Wl K e in fli- her
. within 14 hours next after the knowledge of fu'ch
sickness. make report at ih« Health.OfiSce of the
naiuc of such flrk pcrfon, the time of his or her ar
. rival it the honfe and of his or her being taken fick>
, and of the name and piece of abode of such houfc
kcep.r; whereupon the I'hyficiac of the Hcalth
-3 Office CI.IU forthwith visit thoj.atient, and report
to the fffice his opinioiiuf the nature of such dif—
r cafe, that meafurei may be taken to prevent the
1 spreading of thoinfedion; and if any housekeeper
iwgieiS to give information in the manner and
within the time aforcfaid, and Ihal! he thtreof ccn
f v-iited, 111 any cuurt of criminal jurisdiction within
this Commonwealtlj. upor indiiliner.t by verdivt
or confeffion,' he or file laall forfeit and pay a fine
- cot'neufe of the fai:l hospital, not less than twenty
£ dollars, nor more than hundred dollars, to he
impofsd at the discretion of the court, according to
thecircUmftances of greater or less aggravation at
tending each particular cafe.
By order of the Uoard of Health,
WM.A[,I/liN, HealthOfßcer,
uwim of the Port of Philadelphia,
7TA UTIO K
a certain perfonfwindL-d
i VV from mi on the lirlt inft. by giving
i, me inlieutliereof aforged check on the Bank,
of North America, that date, drawn
in my favour by Mr. John Travis; and pay
able in fix months, for three thousand four
t, hundred acd fifty seven dollars and forty-fix
cents. ALL perfoos are Jc/lred not to re
ceive any transfer of it, as it will not be
paid by either the drawer ur endorser unlefi
e recovered by law.
a WILLIAM NICHOLS,
a Race Street.
august 6.
I i'he Public are hereby informed,.
r r S 'fIAT I did not n-.ean to authorise Co). WII
- JL iam Nichols to declare, that I would noc pay,.
unxfs recovered by law, my note alluded te in hit
b caution of the 6tli ef Augull, published in the Ga
e zette of the United Sta(es of lad evening. I fin
crrrjy lament his lo!s, aud t* Id him I would dO'
dl 1 could do confiftintly with my credit to serve
him, but went no further,
JOH.V TRAVIS.
august 7 . y
1