.i. •* \ ~ » ! ; • « » < I
T "
of ti)t *» Philadelphia Daily Advertiser:
By John Ward Fenno, N° 119 Cbefnut Street.
■ 9 g. XIV-
' ' ' ' •* ' - 1 ' ' 1 ' ' ''' 1 1 ' ■■
;V The price of this Gazette is j
Eight dollars per annum to Subfcri
bcrt reft ding in the city of Philadel
phia. All ethers pay one dollar ad
ditional, for eticlojing and directing,
and utrieff f«m*serfon in this citywiU J
become answerable for the fubferip
tion, it mult be paid Six Months in
advance^
For Sale,
THI SHIP
ST ON PACKET, ■
Hchngs Co*f»»TiiwAir, Milter, _
about ajco barrels a gwdftr<*<g
Ship— has excellent aerommodetionsforpaOengers,
hl ,£ It sent to fca with small expence. bSe i» lay
-5 wharf, fcr further ocular cn
-luireef
Isaac Harvey, jun, or
Smith & Ridgway.
November 16 f l -'
Sud fhiv. <' not f ol< * on ' or ' ,rforc
of D-e.niher.iuft. will on that day. in the evening,
We effered for sale by public auilion, at the mtr
chaiits's coilec haufc.
Smith Rtdgtvay,
Isaac Harvey, jun. a
, «
dcc - 3- i
Jamaica Rum. i
THE CARGO, '
Of the (hip ftHARI.ES, Captain SaHer,
Ftvm the North fide of Jamaica,
Near 200 hhds. of fine high proof (
JAMAICA RUM, 1
IWw Landit.j a: »outh 9 r«t >Vhari. ,
PETER BLIGHT.
C H ATL E S,
Captain Saites,
Coppered, mount twelv- 6 pounders ard tlrirty
five men—returns inrveiiately to Jamaica, for
Passage apply as above.
dec 17 ° tm } '
- - (
For FREIGHT or CHARTER,
to any part of EUROPE,
The Swediih Snow
Jwm M A R 1
Hass Olof Kock, commander. '
A remarkably good veflel, about no tons bvr- ,
then. A freight to Cadiz, or any part cf the
Mediterranean would be preferred. Enquire of the
Captain cn board at Vice-Street Wharf
dee 17 §
For Sale. t
TIE SuisckijEß.. intending r o decline the j
DRUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale:, the
whole Stock of
Drugs and Medicines, Inftrumenfs, &•_.
The fliyjt i* elegant, commodious. and fulfici- |
tot iy. known for the cxuuUve buGild's tone in the
wholesale and retail linej the Gtuation «qual to
any in the city, being at the evincr of Walnut and
Seeond Greets. The' -whole,-or iny part of the
Steele, wiH"he fold, as will fcoft feit the purehsfer.
11i« terras may be known, by app lyiPR to
jAMkS MOORE, jus.
IVlo bat For Sale,
tor the river trade—
The Peggy, about jotonsburthen,
Mulberry fad Red Ceil r framf. an 1 remarkably
♦out, of *ti easy draught of water, Vigging it
good order. : 1 '
The Sali.y, abonr 30 tor-s. fails.
stilt, and in complcft order -
fj" All perfnos indebted ro the ate .firm M
CfJSiwMH W JOMvi", W. B.•.GMCv/sil, ■'-U...
.-Wa* <S* wr the fu'fcri <;r, are Mrneftiy -
«pak« speedy payment to
■**' ' JAMES MOORE, jun.
*"«*« J 5
BOSTON BEEF,
-00 IJ»rrcli in Shipping Order.
?ox sale by
JOHN SKTRIK, '■
•Vs. 96, Aortb Fronijlreet.
Who wants to Charter, ~
srvur rE.SSF.r,
Q'" about 300 Tuns bun^ftn.
TMJ ALSO FOR SALF, 1
•40 Pipes of Madeira Wine, 3 year! old.
no* *t m.jt
--*> FOR WILMINGTON, 1
* ' N:0 R T M - C K * O L I N A, „ V
THE SHIf
COMMERCE, ,
Captain Woo o,
&v* 't'UftAfreight on very no •
derate tenot. amt abenr the
aithtnf**! t 11'pt. to the Captain t,n board at
Latin.ci's \ri t
T „,. Witlings cis Francis,
Penn, Street,
v ml* r i< j
FOR SALE,
fjfcl. 7ie fffiJ'"'-'"' M"*— !,
THREE SISTERS, 1
- -'.r ' i* i*ov- ready take a cargo ou
*-Kir' ~ .upprl'cd wiil cirh7«cc o» <SO barrels.
ALSO, A S-'ALL IWOICE
4A V A COF F E E, ;
( : Sni ff<3 U ilravbad,
<sl ¥*BBWfe•
.. t JEHL'
jkMtfu rr ; r '"' i
- 1 es v M '
r | For Neiv-Tork id Bojlon.
- J The new and faft failing Stoop
" f-^-^PRESIDEMT-FACKET,
Jamu BtACif TT, mafier.
"wiLl. Il l with all convenient speed—For freight |
' or ;»lf*ge apply to the malter on boird, lying at |
Chefnut-firm Wharf. ;
WHO HAS FOR SAI.E, ,
. On boardfaid Sloep,
30 bbls. *f to,i-ni frntlf quality
»o do. of herring ard Ihad
Few halt do. mackrael
A small quantity of fmoaked herring
60 bbls. of «inter pears
5000 bunches of onions
' 4COO Iks. of excellent ehcefe,
, Philadelphia, d.-c. n.
Ship Broker's Office,
And CoinmiJJtm Store,
Nc. 119, South front St*fft,
Next door to she Cuflom Houf*.
r T"'HE Stibfcribcr, encouraged oy the ad*'ce of
X lift friend*, offers His ftrvice to the puWic
as a Ship an<! Jnlurance Broker. H» proxi
es to buy and fell veflels and every thing relat
ing thereto—aflift masters «f viffcls *nd others
m entering and clearing at the C«i/lora-Houfe,
procuring and (hipping firijiht, fettling Ini'ur
>nir ar.d all olher mercantile accounts, and
have on band the rectflary Blanks ami Stamp.-.
Papers in foreign languages rranflated, and in- :
formation given in general mercantile matters,
p —From a knowledge jiainied by long experience
of every branch of tafiijeis fie hopes so be ufe
fui to tho 'e who pical'e tr fav»r him with their
con-mands. SAMUEL EMERY.
noveaiber 19 §
For SALE or CHARTER,
THE SHIP
MOLLY,
Burthen 4100 batreh of Flour,
r S-Cfli.Philadelphia buift, well found 1
fitted, and may be ready 1
» to receive a cargo in a fei» daye—lke is pierced '
18 gun' and mounts 12 oewln pomiAers, with
fraall arms in proportion.
j—a THE SHIP
DIANA, j
Burthen 1,100 barrels of Flour,
cO.'JV 'St rhi;#<le!phia huiit of livj oak ,
, and cudar, it pierced for four
teen guns, tnd mounts ten new four pounders,
with lraall arms is proportion.
{Ms. THE BRIG
AMAZON,
v*. *3,13' Burtlien 1,300 birrels of Flour, ;
"'"New-England boilt, has t
been completely Sued, aud may be ready forica
it a few days., /.
For rerm»*piilv to
NlCKlli\ if JR IF FIT H.
"Who have for Sale "»•<- - I
an hoardfundrj vcjfels at Marcm-Hook,
ii.ooo bulhels of Liverpool fine falj
J I,loc bnfhels of coals
IS6 crates of queens ware affoVte'd
7 tierce, of boftM partfr
to barrels.of teleetiiard:fitfqt ■
4 do, of purpla brownfdo.
i quantity nt yell** oort in ' frl e
6 barrels powdered V.-. etian red paint
6 hln t li mineral hlaek
> I*s tiarrel»Spaniih brown <Jq.
If WiiWWlpW ni J
brown J HAVANA SUGARS
, J,Joclbs prime Coehiixal „ -J ~
. 3 barreli New Orleans indigo \
• • - ••• r +
r 1 4 puncheons Jamaica mints
»c bales of fail «invaf<
5. 379 fleets of copper, jfierted fr-m 4? by :4
to 60 by 4sincV-e9 ' ' " : ' <
Two tubs railed still bottoms afTorted
06 % pound gui«s 4-i fact, 8-jf wt eack
y '4 do. 4 feet, jewt aud 4.lbt .cacfi
50 barrels of jun pev der
6 cases Mancheller cotton checks
3 trunks mullins *»d Ihawls
»4 cases mnflineti, dimities and gfnghams
18 chests coloured nankeess, muflinets, 4c.
u trunks printed calicoes
6 baits ot whit* and coloured oaflkneres
1 bale of course woollens
ErgiiOi nails aflbrted.
')dober 17. fri.&fat. rf.
AUGUSTUS FRIC.KE*
Woollen Draper Men's Mercer
A'o. T,fouth ThirdJlrtet,
HAS RECEIVED,
per the last arrtvil from Europe, j Urge alTort
f'-nt of the fetKi«fi*We Go<xls in his line,
And has conjlanlly for fait a general aj/brt•
ment »f
l irft rate London iuperfine Broad
Cloths f
Calli meres
Veil Pattcrnsof all kinds
And every other article in the gentleman's line
by wholesale ar-i retail.
deecrr.Srr ro
: RTI Ai LOR,
MUSIC PROFESSOR,
R üb. 9ft, Koarti »ixT«-tT*iET,
ESi ECTFULLY inTorißs the Public ihat
he continues to t»a<h Ladies the Pia.ro
Fcrte as ufuil. 1
r ' v ' '• twhsa
Jr A N T E D.
Convenient Lodgings, for an elderly
LaJv, hi 4 rcfpeiflakle private family, where
t/iei e are no children. Enquiry at this office.
• jec ' < d m
NOTICE.
ALL persons indebted to the eftite of Janes
TaoMrsuM, of the Indian Queen, Fourth
ffrett are to m.\e paymeiu lo
the ftVn'-erfi-itwl tKofe who have any demand*
ag-ina ..f. faaefta-t.Mf nrqtiefted so fend in their
•Wnints duly Kte&r* for fsrtkmrnt, to
J ' ' ' HOM;'SOJf»7 Adniinillram'x. .
JOHN i HO.iJPSOK, j, Admiaifirator. I
sJim5 Jim
FOR BREMEN,
• THE brig 1
. SPECULATION,
Arcnd WHTHIO,M.HTI«,
t , . NoW W»ng at Henry Ptttt\ whtrf, the firft
. Riceftr^t—ftieiiaßicmcn h6ti om ; tw« I "
hundred and twf»,y *oA.lm*tlien ; will bil with
all puffiblc di(patch—for freight or jwffage apply
PRATT & KINTZING, '
no. 95, north Water.Jlreet. <
—T . ' 3 <
Who have for sale, a variety of j
GERMAN GOODS,
»IZ.
Ticklenijurghs Paticrbornes
Oznibrgs Checks
litr/Cans Stripes
Bro-a-n rolls Slippers
Ceffcc bags CamVcicks
Piitillas Twine
Bnttiuias Giafs tumblers
Fait wine
I Creas ala Morlaix Window ghfs
B elciield Brnnftone, ic .
Do-olis
detember 13 th.fe.ma.3w j
FOR LIVERPOOL,
\ Burthen 340 Tons ;
s '^ out WiJJ'iour.d veffrL She is IXw
* ready to her Cargo, md will
•- - —*tf ia.l 0.1 the firft epct ing of the river.
j llu-ec-lonrrhs of h.r Loading being already pro
vided—rlor 'Freight for the remainder, or Paflage,
apply w
NICKLIN & GRIFFITH.
c dec. 13. tutb&« tf.
a
Massachusetts District.
BY virtue of a W arrant from the honotable John
l.owell, elq. Judge of the DiParicl Court for
th» Biftri;: of Maffackufctta. l - There will 1* ex
posed to fa!e at AuAion, tit the Marfiial's Office in
liofton, on Tue(7!nythe firil Jay of January next,
at eleven o'qjocji : a certain 3t-x of Watches, sav
ed irom the wreck ol the (hip CoacHjA, llranded
1 at Cape Cod, and for which no claimant has ap
j pear en—'• said Box of Watches arc to he fold for
.. the psymei.t of Freight, Salvage, auc other charg- .
j es, and for the benefit of alt concerned,—via. (
1 Tin Box? 40 Si.ver Watches
F A >i7 Gold ditto
j 4 Papers Trinkcta
SAMUEL BRADFORD, marlhal,
ot Matfachufetts.
Dated at Soflan, 7
, Dec. 6. 1798, J 17 dt*4
L - '
; REMOVAL. ,
George Dobson,
JNFORMS his friends and the Public ia general
that he has removed from No. 23, South Third
1 Street, to No ya. South fide of Market-ftrect, near f
the corner of Third Street, and is notv openifig 1
1 a very extcpfivt. aflo.Mu.rH - i
DRY GOODS,
SUIT ABLE FOR THE PRETEXTsFJSOX,
WHICH' hi HAS JUST KICIIVID,
Per the (hips William Pemi, Amiable, and Jane,
(ipiti l.ondou, #1 id per and l'hdmas '
from Liverpool, and will {h. 4oU low for ca(h, '
or approved notes a (hort date, via, ,
London 7-4 Superfine Cloths and J
Cafiimerea, fafbiona'sle cAours
Yofltihire-7. 4 do. and. d«.
n I Mixed and plain coatings
Welch flannels '
KcrVtybitav.r, forSfenccrs
Jeaainets and Tab!-.y cords
Velvets u.d velvetteena
t(invests . > \ A I
B{ . ,*?» A t.4L vi. ll % 'otton ar.d lin.n checks j
7-i? and 4" 4 bed tic, I,
cot'xns ,
»t j Do. {
r Pairole aud chintz (bawls
" SiUt do. .
Cimclskalr do
Silk, c»4on, ar(l wfcrffed hose
Irfci t and Hnt'fh muftins of fevery defeription
bhrk and white era'pr
Tiffcrfy ahil' paper tars *
Hats itlartcd in small c-iHfs I
•P«lings and fattins - <I
Laces and edgings
R,')bandt i tV;,|
Sjik - ,
Superfine Ftench cambrick
Lambrick nuifiuis
Do. threads
Hulicat .in! Madras Handkerchiefs,
And an elegant aJfortme*t of
r BrufTels and Wilton Carpeting.
November 17 t
§
IHIRTT DOLLARS,
W'fL , he P lld {ar apprehending and lodg
* i, * ~ ® S , «a»y goalin theUnked States, the
following deserters tr.ra the Delaware Sloop of
j \S ar, tm;.
Thomas Jones, seaman, formerly reGded in
Mea.le Alley, light hair, frtft corti
p exmn and blue eves, aoout Ste-feet nine inch
es high.
I hoir.:s Brown,, ordinary seaman, about five
feet th.ee inches high, light hair, grey eye. and '
Twarthy, about 11 years of age. also,
Rjcliard Cu. ven, ordinary leaman, about (ive
tect Cx inches high, aged twenty-three years,
light hair, blue eyes and fwarthv.— Culven and
t ? rnwr ;* rc bo ' h "f Philadelphia, and are
0 foppnftd to be concealed by feme of their ac
quaintance in this ritf.
STAPHS N pteATUX,
of'.thctWaware
! ' XT *1 *»/ -k" ?lt>op of War.
f tr ifit
c ' The Subscribers ha,\c for sale,
Malaga \V'u)c, i;i quarter caflt.
Red Port r!»tto, jp Hhu» ard quarte? c*iks
Old Madeira oitto, fit for immediate i|Te
French Brandy, »
Spaniih ditto, {«oi cotftf-d;
.Mc4qc ia Cases
% Fir fort
* I new CaUle, 9 ire;
1 12 inci
1 fcr, 7 inch'ts . :
d&X*
Hrc I Jt
Jdt Arrivedj
In the Brig Elica, from the Mediterranean, and
now landing at Walnut Street wharf,
Fourth proof Brandy in Pipes.
Brkq&oar. r
Anafiortment of valuable DRUGS, f(
► • II
CONSMTVMC OF
[ Opiam, Aloes, Canthirides, Camphlre, Senna, "
Creniur Tartar, 4c. Stc.
Effenees of Lemon rnd Bergamot
Writing paper
Sweet oil in bottles and Halks
Olivet, anchovies and eaters
Juniper berries
A L S C.--Italian lutestrings
Samps' r ,
Crapes--
Umbrellai
Revwaitiin^cn Hand,
St. Croix Swgars,
Claret in cases
Old Madeira Wine of the fir&qntlity.
JAMES YARD.
November J §
• m * 1 ■■ * ■ ■ 'Sr
Bond ik Brooks, r
Cornh or Maiket and Sixth struts,
HArE RUCEIVED,
by the late arrivals from London, Liver
pool and Hull,
A LARCI AND GINEXAL ASIQIMIVT OT
DRY GOODS, i
Whtch they ire now openfrg For sale, at the mod tc
reduced prices, for ca(h or the ofval credit. dl
1 nor 17 ' T f ti
Old Madeira Wine. .. 5
, i 7 pipeS df old London particular
MADEIRA WINE,
n flrong iron b>>und' H«mbr«' calks, for
ale by ROBERT ANDREWS.
Nov. 30. todtf t)
JAMAICA RUM, ~l'
A Cargo now landing nt South Jlrcet wharf, ei
FOR SALE BY
PETER SLIGHT, t(
Apply at Stores on the Wharf,
WHO AISO OFFERS Poa SAL*, *
BRANDY, id and 4th proof
Madeira and Port WINES, Stc. Sc. 1
Nav. f._ drf
Genteel Boarding fcf Lodgings
IN A HEALTHY SITUATION.
4"RS. M'CREA informs her frieads aad the
iVA Public, that (he is prepared to accomtno • p
date several Gentlemen, with genteel Boarding (j
and Lodging, at No. «7, Filbert street. ;
' "QV. *8 Olf ,
James & William Miller,
A'o. sj, North Third Street,
Near Arch street, have the following articles for ,
sale upon moderate terms for ca|h,4r the
usual credit.
Scarlet Cloths, 1
Low and middling quality, Mulberry and Green
ditto, White, Red, and Yellow lrifh Flannels, -
Bloe, Green, and Mulberry half thicks. India ca-
Gurrihs, Mamoodies, Guzzines, and other i
muCins, »n., —i
fctts and fancy cerjt, sewing (ilk and twist of all ,
1 colours, ferreting, hair rinhon, colouie. threads, r
India flag bandanocr, and other hlaelc and colour
' ed (ilk handkerchiefs, a variety of other ciAtuu
' do. Soutc romals, red Gilla handkerchiefs, md *
' i eens, foan fpianing. fuftians, beavers, jeans, fa- f
tinetts add royal ribbt, ;i!fo mufiinus and dimities, '
■ gingliamt, Ulies' kid and floured gloves; &c.
Ito*. **- i <■«'■ 'ti. I dtct e
-
John Dobbin,
i JSOOT V SHOEMAKER. c
informs his.'Frivnds and
in general that he carries on his i
fcyfiijefe as No M SiMl/j Second-ftrett, nearly op.
s polite the Merchants Cofiee houlie where gen
, j llemep maybe supplied in the neatest and bell
manner —he assures :ho(t m. ho my pleife to fa- •
with their commands thit lid auemion
or exertion or, his fide-(half he wanting to render t
liim wonhy of their rticauragement.
N. B. Orders received will bfjiupilMally at- i
tel.Jed to. . , rt I
november j it
t mfrcT. •
ALL pirfhns who liave any demands agaibft
the ellatr of *he William CtiPrott,
dcceafed,and who haw not-alrcadv ptodueed their .
their accounts, are requeued to fend them to the J
lublcriber at no 171, north Mcond street. •
ELIZABETH TUCKER, Adm'x
Philadelphia nov. 19,1798 n-.&thaw
JOHN SHIELDS, ~
broker,
Embrattt this opportunity tc prtfent hit thanks
to hu feHo-Tv citiaenj for their faft favors
and acquaints them that he is returned from
Chefiut HiU, to his former re/idenee, the
Hott/ie Ae. ts Chefiint betuetn Front
and Second-flreet,
WHERE he lialds himfelf ready to execute
their commands ip every branch a( his
e profeflion, trtfting that from a residence in thi«
f city of 35 years he has it in his power to render
them fffential service, affiiring them that his
, cominiflioi, (hall be is low as any in Town.
Lotts, Lsp.ds, Houses r Veffeli, Certificate*
. of every defeription and Bill* 'of Exchange,
bought and fold, thc-docketts carefully exam- .
. ined.arid clear titles made upon the Ihbruft no
\ tice, by the public's humble servant,
John Shields,
z £?■ Good negotiable Notes discounted '
, it a low premium. 1
1 november 7 3 awtf S
FOR $ A L E, t
A Tan-Yard, with about thirty two acres of f
Land, at Rock-R«n. on the Head of the
li4e watrr,ef in Harford county, f
Mar j land, is souk fevcnty.five Vats, a
Sto> t 'Will a;i nVh House, with conveniences of V
■ Water 1(1 d other n«- (Tories for an cxter.Sve Yard, 1
a Dwellirfg-Tfeuft, Kitchen and divers other us, fui
huUttit)!r« i; eredr d thoreon, some of the land, in 1
lots well improved, a good Herring Fifcery on the
(hort: The imp 07in» Town of'Havrc de Grace,
:is a! out fix rmies didart and vtffcf, o*iing .lown' ]
the River, paH tjafe by the preinifci. A conve
nient fits.i'ion to get Bark, a Hock of which with
fcr.fils fwr.Tani n K , and all tK- nUs in the
1 Vats may Iw had with the \ r.j. For terms anjdy *
I tojohn V'iifon, n ar Harfi.rcJ row;., cr the Sub- 0
j fcriUr on the jTemi'ijcs. °
IS-\AC WILSON, f
1 atTi rao. 14th. :aw;w
t\f i
I
NOTICE.
! —— •
THE COPARTNERSHIP OF
HUDSON isf YORKE,
it this day diflolved by mutual conLut. All per
i sous indebted to tali firm arc refuelled (o make
immediate payment—aid tbofe wbn have aay de
mands .".re requeued to prffent thcfci f«r fcttleaient
' to WIIXIAM HUDSON, *ho it duly authored
to adjuli the fame.
WILLIAM HUDSON,
SAMUEL YORKE.
WILLIAM HUDSON,
no. 54, Notra tiosT irmi,
Ha» for laic on the ul'ual terms, a very
exteniive afforuner.t of
DRY GOODS.
D«c. 10. ,*w.
FOR SALE ""
By the Subscribers,
VfRY LOW TKRMJ
WAX CANDLES,
OF A SUPERIOR QUALITY,
Either by the fiiiglc box of 24Jb*. or by the qutn*
.5 >% * tity.
WMings Is" Francis.
Nov.
~~~WXfT IC E.
A LI. Perfans indebted to rh< Eflate of <J.»c
-T\ tor Hugh Ilodj-r tirrt-H are r»q«ir(led
to make immediate payment —.md those having
drrnmd? ajrainl! the FUate aredtfrrd toauthen
ticate and yirefc«». tf».
MARI.t HODGE, adm'miflralrix,
SAMUEL HODGDEN, adminiftt-ator,
»"V -SO 4
Notice is hereby Given,
HPHAT application will b; mad« aj the l'rea.
L fury of the Urited Srates. for the renewal of
the following certificates ol Funded Debt, (laud
ing in the name ol Robert Whiiworth, of Chiffea,
L,< ndou, th; said Certificates having been forwarJ
, cd by the (hip Ellice, Hajvy, from London for
N w-Ynrk, raptured by the French, and fiippofod
to be lo*.
No- II4JT. 6 Per Cent. Stock, dated New-
York, lßth April, UrDolJars. 1481,47.
No. 8171, 3 Per Cent, dated New-York,
JBth April 1796, for dollars 400. '
SAMUEL MILBANK.
novemher 18 d6w
Notice is hereby Given,
That application will be made at the
Bank of the United States for the renewal o
the following certilicites of Bank flock, (lauding
in the name ot Hodgfrai Atkinlon of London,
which were loft si on on board the Swallow Pat
bet, capt. Kidd, captured by the French, and all
persons concerned arc defiredto taLe notice
No. 3424, issued in lieu <rf No. 1891,
1.892, 5662 ®"d 16640, for 4/hare*.
No. 3020, issued in lieu of 11055, auJ
11057, for 3 (hares.— 7 (hares.
THOMAS M'EUEN Co.
1 nov. it Jim
JAME&& RICHARD SMI IH,
HAVE this day returned from the country to
l^ nr STOPF r Mo. /4. South FiwtDrrtt.
where they htre for falc, as ufual,a Urge and ge
neral WTortmcut ef European and East-India
DRT GOODS,
mod of which have now arrived and are landing,
from the different vtflels, from Hamburgh, Lou
don, Liverpool and Hull.
Their Cuflomers by applying vU! find almost
every article generally ,importcd,..a»l at as low
- price, for calh or credit,a, they can be had clfe
wherc.
N. B. A few Cases of Nuienbergh TOYS, a
confijfnment, to be fuld by the cafe wily.
1 Philadelphia, Nov. », t?gß. dtf
Englilh wrought Naifo
•i ■ 2 ~
1 Imported in tbr /hips Mojh and Diana, from
tivtnrooi.
i 403 Calks of Nails,
r pONSISTING of M, Bd, ,cd. „4, ar.d
VJ iod, flit points fuitahle for the foathdrn
- market—M, Bd, jod, ud, and lc d, finedrawn
fbarps aire ~ 3, 4 , 6 elquts fprigs—
lucks—feupper nails—ftrathing nails, &c.
IV TyrfWygt* by,
i Robert Den If on, jufir.
• "7 Market fireet.
e For Sale,at thfc Stores of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut Arret Wharf,
«9J cifkl Ot nailF a (Tor ted
50bales •flailcanvafs, from No. I toB
5 .J calks yellow ochre
I j tieues bottled purler, 6 to 14 dcz each
I-ondon particular ) , . „
India market 5 »>«!««■» Wines
Tenrnfledo.foi hogfceadaand nip
Old Port do*, in hhda.
Empty Claret hottle*
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, MiHiineti fcc.
aflbrted for the WeA-India market
4> 10, aadq inch cahlesand ro cnilsof cordage
Writing fiues, ii.k fland* a ai presses
M psreheoat Jamaica rum
' I bale feamlng twine
r 160 bundles (beathiog paper
Niitlift & Griffith.
* a P"' 1 Wtr? f'h&f.tf
TO BE SOLD,
' "PURSUANT to the lift «ill .nd teHamert of
-L .Vfkhail Cat rt,dcceafed, a ralaablc
Plantation & Trad of Land,
i containing one hundre 1 and f-venry threr acres
the Teflitor's late refid.nce, fltuated in North
Sufquchanna Hundred, Ceocil coui.ty, Maryland
- about three mile- from the ttde-viater of Sufoue
hanna.and at a convenient <iiftance from freiral
plaos of w..rfhip of Friends acd Pr<ibyterean«.
On the prcmif«s are a Taa yard aod ronveoien-
thereto, in good repair ; a dwrllmr
hoaf., liable, .rehard aad oth r improvement..
or 1S 2cra rf K<*>d watered meau w, and
a si fhcienr proportion of valuable timber.
For term, apply to the fui fpriber, in Waft J<o'-
tingham, aSout 3 miles from the nremifrs. , ' '
IHUMAS WAR IMC, Executor
lath mo. nth.1798
Insurance Ctmpanj oftbe rtatc rrf'Pcvrtryf
v ■ , vaitia.
THE STOCKHOLDERS -re hereby notified
'* n tle>-W lor thirteen Direaor. to serve for
one >e,r will He Meld * ,he Company's Office
pn Wondiy the fourteenth day of January next at
Eleven O clock.
JAMES S COX, Prefi.'rnr.
dti 4 ,jUnited Statis,
Pe: nfylvania DiflriA j •**
NOTICE is hereby given that in pttrfuanee of a
writ to me directed, from the Honorable
RieuAari PtTr*s, Esq. Judge of the Di(lri&
Court of the United States in and feir the Peou
fylvania Dillriil, will be exposed to public sale
at No. 117 in Saffatrat ftreetMoc.iif the 14th
day of December inftanf, at la o'clock at noon,
2 H<?£*h«ids and
2 Barrels of Spirits;
The fame having t.een libelled against, pr«fecuted
and condemned a« forfeited In the laid Court.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
» Marlbal.
MarflaH Office, Dee. 15th, 179!.
BOOK-KkeptnO.
Wants a Platej
t N A Til EtlDllic
ACCO MATING-HOUSE or OFFICE,
A PERSON that Writes well, it a keady Reck
oner, a pra&ieal look Keeper, and can be
Veil recemthended, a line, (or petfona! applica
tion) directed te M. M. No. 71, North Seventh
ftreet, will be duly attended to.
N. B Books ciofed, anil new Aecomptt open
ed; Psrti>»rft-.ip Aecomptt adjuded, or any business
in the Book-Keepii g liae, done at the abave place,
or aI) r had of Evenings.
. de-- '7 j
Al) )l) I' nine o'clock la!t evening, a white man
tune in*o my Bore, and requeued me to ad
vance h"mi a few d»l!ar» on a Candlestick which
appears ro be silver. Prefuroing he had net got
it honefily, I aflced him from whom be received it,
and at the i'r.me time called for aQiftance, intending
to secure him, hut he diredly made his efcepe>«-
Ar.y ptrfou who cai prove it to be their property,-
may have it on paying for this aArertifement, to
THOMAS BROWN,
Corner Stamper's alley, New-Market.
«5- f.U
NOTICE,
PURSUAN 1 tua Refoive of the Board ef
Trulletsof Washington Academy, in Som- j
erfet county, Marylard, authoriling Willi a m , 5
Polk, efqr. msjors Samuel Wilsom, ard
William Josts, Members of faij Board, to
procure a principal teacher for said Academy.—
NOTICE is here y given, that a gentleman quali
fied to teach the Greek and Lrtin Langvsges, Geo
graphy aod -.he Mathematics and such other
urarches of "Literature as it is tuftomary to teach
ia such Schools, will meet with liberal encourage
ment an.l it is prelumed will be well accommodat
r. 1 in taking charge of this Academy. The build
i*S <s spacious and will accomodate at least sixty
Students.
Fropnfals may be addrefled to John Dennis, No.
:tl Arch-street, Philadelphia ( or to either of the
three gentlemen above-meacioned, near Princess _
Anne, Maryland.
■I" '7 5
Genteel Boarding ss* Lodgirg.
SEPARATE and ready firnifhed apertments
with genteel Boarding and Lodging for the ac. ( CI
commi darion of four Gemlemen (with their Ladies, Di
if required) may be had at No. *63, Sireet; j I r j
»4- tdfc ; Se,
Whereas the certificate of two
fharcs of the Bank of the United States ra the
name o! Samuel Amory, of London, banker,''
No 5181, ifTueil in lieu of 11593, 11.194, were
♦rwari'eJ from London by the Britilh packet
Counteft, of Leiceltcr, capt. Oodd, bound for
Which packet was captured by the M
French, and the fai>l certificate loft ; and for the j r.
rcnswil 6f which, application is made at said ! ftm
ail persons concerned arc deflred to pie
take ueuce- - rpa
CLEMENT BIDDLE. Foi
FJ.ili. .Oil. 16, 1798. eo6w
Ready Furmjhcd Apartments.
dm
TO LET, READ* FURNISHED, f or
AFkONT Parlour and four chambers, with I
the y/e ®f a Kitaken and Cellar, in a ~~~
pltafant fa rt of Arch ft ret t ; enquire at the office
h jJ of this Gazett.-. Qi
N. I)—,\s the furniture is all new, it precludes
any aj>prehonCoa of contagion from the late pie- is <J
vaiii'Tjj fever, TA
(Trumbcr is e04.5t Ltd
Hats & Hosiery.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
A T HIS STORE,
No. 134, Market Street,
HAS JUST Ui'ENED, in addition to hie for
mer flock, a very extensive aftortmcnt of
Men's, \Vonien's, and Children's Hatt, and all .
bindi ol Stocking,—particularly a quantity ef A
berd crn knit Hose, suitable for the present season .
»»». eoim flre<
mu
Ephraim Clark,
CLOCK y WATCH MAKER, ~~
Corcer of Front and Market streets, Philadelphia,
HAS JUST RECEIVED,
BY the different arrivals, a large supply of Clock
and Watch makers and Silver Smiths Tools,
files and materials,
CONII ST INC or Hij
Rowling Mills, large aad small Bench and Hand
Vices, Turnbenches, Plyers, Sliding Tongs, Bra- jj
ces and Bitta, Grooving to els, Saws, Scratch brash- an< j ■
c, Blow pipes, Screw and Draw plates, large and n .v,.
fniaTl Hamxners (> Cluck dials, cast brass Bells, for
ged w*rk and pinions, E-nery, Pu
nrhfc (tone, Qorax, Spelter Sorder, Brass, Steel and
lrm wire, fljeet Brass, main springs and glaftet
gold, gilt, and steel ehafnt, fieals and keys, &c. 4tc.
> Cs* Clocks and Watches carefully repaired
■ov. |f _ eodtf
FOR SALE, 1
By George Plumsted, " h d J
No. 166. South Faont Stxzxt. "
itc win le Tiercei ? R 1 p p Lrw
I3C h.lf- do. Wall
Boxes white Havaitna Sugars, entitled to q,
drawback p;
», 000 pieces Nankeens, do. do. j-
Anchors weighing i;cwt. and jAcwt. <j.,
1 fto boxes containing tea fettsofChina -j-,
35 boxes of blue and white table setts of do. t
ALSO, w
Boxes containing break fall, coffee and even- Jn| j ,
iug cups and lauerrs ; teapots, cream pott,fu- more
Car diftes, pint bowls, cuilard cups, flat and jg,.
oup plate* and dilhes. A
Yooi.g Hyson Tea
Fen*
<h«a;
nov. u jtiwiw
Printing Work, H'
Of £wrr Kind,
EXECUTED AI THE SHORTEST will,
NOTICE, in w!
At ibt Office »/ lU Gazette »/ the teafc
UniTldStates, prem
dtf. No
DISTRICT OF PEX\SYIVANIA, TO.fTIT: »
BE IT tEMIMkFRED,
ance of, J HAT on the tenth day
ionorable u l S f ° f Deeeml>er - '» th / twenty third
Diftria ■ .. yerr ot the Independence •( the ti
le Penu- nited States ef America, JOHN
blic sale LAMBERT of the faij DiftriA, fcsth deposited in
th, 24 th r h»* office the title of a book, the right whereof he
noon claims as author in the words following, to wit:
" A lh»rt and practical fffay on Farming j bi
" ii.g the experience of a farmer of about firry
" years of age, near forty yeart of which were
'•fecuted " spent ia England, EfTex county, on land where
>urt. " filing is done in the greatest perfect it n,
g " and near fevea ye rt on three bundled and
'J. . " twenty acres of worn. oat land in P' ttfgrove and
•* Aliowly creek, in Salem, county Wefl-Jerfey—
" lands may be improved, and that th* means are
* in the power of almofi. every farmer."
la conformity to the aft of the Congress of
the United States, intituled " An a& for
the enconragement of learning, by feeuriug
, r _ the copies of maps, charts and books to the
' authors and proprietors of such copies du
y Reck- ring the terms therein mentioned." ,
ca . nbe D. CALDWELL.
cven'th- Cltri of the Dijlriß of Pnnfylvania.
d«c.
13 iaw4w
business or f fubfcr'tters y 1
A HW BALIS o? 1
' ■ WOOLENS, '
■ —i_ Containing Cloths & Blankets, _
Z™ Ijo bales llengal mnflms
which »odo. Madras handkerchinfs, elegant pat*
lot t terns
• P tot pieces Kufiia (heeting
10 bozea umbrellas
a quantity of cassia
ipertT- .1° t « n » Pettrfbarg clean hemp
|t t pipes, 3 years old, finefl particular Ma*s s
' dcira wine
' a quantity of copper
Mordeeai Lewis.
—— nov. »6 daw
ird «f Imported
Som- j J N THE LAST JRRiyjLS,
( M j r d ! Superfine, fine and common cloths
•d, t 0 Swandowns
my ®»i*«»
quali- Veivctts I
Geo. Velverctts
other Printed calicoes
teach Furniture & fancy dimities
ita?c* Hair ribbands
,od«- Sewing silk
Juild- Brussels and Persia caipetts
sixty Buttons
For fa/e, for cajl or credit, ly
i,Ho. SAMUEL MERRICK.
>f the no. »43 Arch flreet.
incefs nov - *6 «tjanl ~
, tOk SAW, .
nc. 5, SotTs Watm-Stiiit.
liifh Linens, 7-8 and 4-4, well
»entj aflorted, in whole and half boxes
• ac. ; Checks, in ditto
dies, Drogheda's, ard Brown 7-8 beetled Linens
• I Irish Hackled Flax
I Seotts Thr«ad
wr» 1 en iD< * Womens Combs
Russia Duck, of au excellent quality, and jj
k« r V 100 hhds. AuxCayes Moiaffes.
vere
By ISAAC HARVEY, junr. Th,
cket »*th-mo. 17 d 4 w
TO HE LET, *
l k C 1 A NE AT - convenient two-story frame HOUSE L]
r 5 BAKE-HGUSE, fituatcd in fotrh Fourth
laid , Aieet, below German ftre.t—The house is in com- lort
to plctt Prefer, baring two rooms on a floo*. *
rpaciotis garret; the lot is 19 i-j feet front en /•
Fourth flreet, and i»i i-i feet deep. 1
v ; Apply to Wl! '
CHRISTIAN BETZ, r,UCI
'• no • Mulberry fireet. 1
B --As the property belongs to orphan chil
dren, it is expesed that good fccurity will ba given _
for the rent. T
"'li Philadelphia, december IT, 1798 Vrawjw a ' >o,
E?e NOTICE. ui
SAMUEL RtCHARDET, informs the Gentle- tlbli
men Subscriber*, that the EXCHANGE
He- is tfpened for their rccep.itm; and the CI TT
I"A yER N, for Gentlemen and Travellers— j.
t Lsft Spring added an addition of twelve Bed
Chambers to the fide building, wkich makes it
perfe&ly convenient. .
aovember 6 thaw p eni
, A capital Hand for Bu/inejs.
~ » "
TO BE RENTED,
°of ■*' < D ?O * SESS ' 0 *' giveh, r I '
On the Btb day of February.
A. commodious F»ur Story Brick House on of
on A the So,lth fide ef Market, near Water- f ' und
flreet, at present occupied as a Tavern, by Tho-
mas Palmer. For terms, Enquire at the office
of this Gazette. mere
. dcc 5 nwtf d '«.
ia, French Language. YoTli
ck G. DUFIEF, No .r
|[ Si No. 63, South Second Street, No 1
will ore* r( ' *7
His DAY and EVENING SCHOOL
» d On Wednesday, the 14tb Jnji. -"1
' N. B.- Private I'uition attended to a« usual
nd lnd Translation " from tither Language into the And
other, performed with accuracy, feerecy, and
dispatch.
n U d -°" Y - 10 J
es Canal Lottery, No. 11.
Will re-commence drawing in the cottrfe of
the present month. vcr
to be had Eight Dollars each,at
X BLACKBURN's Lottery «' '
2nd Broker# office, No. 64 South Second-street, for re
where checkbooksare ltfept forregiflering ;nd call f
1 examination of Tickets in the above, City of Juftie
Wafcington ami Patterfon Lotteries, &c. and f
to r» . St "'o'"'W»iu. then,
One prize of 10.000 dollars 10,000 and tc
,ve 4.oo« a0;000 p)e 0|
i. wo 4,000 prefer
X wo , » 00 ° ijOoo Oiler
Ten s 00 5 ,00 a
Twenty-leven 100 J>4oo
With a full proportion of the one hundred -
and of the fifty dollar prizes—The Lottery it
J 1 more than two third* drawn and above 15,ce0
dollars richer than at the commencement.
0- Note, the business of a Broker duly at HAS
tended to in all its branches. tu.fr. Sou
nov. 9-
— £xc<
Horses to Winter.
HORSES will be taken in to winter at P« a
srEcr Hill, at the n Mils Stone, on the Wtmtt
Erißnl road ; they will be well fed with clover
and timothy hay, well littered and cleaned, and n ,
will alfohave a large field to ttercife theaifelves
in wSer. ;he weather is good Eaquu-e of Mr.
UnHiam BM, merchant, Watet flreet, er on the
premises. /
wf if r-.v
D.fTIT: | BeUwarc & Schuylkill Canal-
I THE Stockholder* are heresy notified, that th
I EMioo for Prefidcm and for »>
1 dav ' onfuing jear, will be held at the Company » Olhc
th , r ,l on the felt leconJ-day in January n.xt, at tel
the tj- o'clock '* the forenoon.
TOHN *■
>fited in Susquehanna £j* Schuylkill Canal.
reof he t he Stockholders ire hereby not'rfeJ, that th<
w!t! Eleven for President and Manager*, for the enfu
g ; b-* ing year, will beheld at the Company*! Office, on
it City the flrtt i:cond-day in Jannoy »ext at ten o alock
h were Ai M _
1 where ' GEO. WORRALL, fec'y
fc ?""• to Delaware £S* Schuylkill Canal Contrary.
Ed and , *
. dec jo mr
)Te and ■. ■ -
trfey— Just Publilhed,
>rn-OUt AND IS NOW OFFER If) FOK SAL* B*
B. D/IVIES,
. r At No. *B, High-street,
2 f ° r THE AMERICAN REPOSITORY,
curiae AND
:to the ANNUAL REGISTER,
ie»du- For the Year 1799 ;
_ Containing c omplete and correal litis of the
Executive, Lefriflative, and Judiciary De
partment! of the General and State
'4 W Governments
A (.reat variety of ufeful Tables, neceflary to be
• known in every State of the Union.
Embclli/hed with a handfomc engraved Fron
tifp'uee.
etS, Dtc - '3
JNicklin & Griffith,
■ " HAFE FOR SALE,
Sail Cloth by the bale or piece,
(No. 1 fc 8)
One bale of teaming-twine
Copper in flieets, from 14 by 48 tp 48 by 60
inches
Two tubs raised capper still bottoms
Queens' ware, alerted i 0 crates
f • Loudon porter in bottles, contained in cases
iw Empty port-wine bottles
■ Yeliow ochre in cafiks
Cochineal in ferons
ludigo iu do. & talks
■ 3J cafej and trunks of muslins, ginghams, dimi
)thS ties, muflinets aod pullicat handkerchiefs, in
small aflorted packages, calculated for the
Wed India market
II trunks printed callicoes
14 baics caflimeres, assorted
1 do. coarse woolens
Old Madeira wine
Sheathing paper
J Englifij nails in caiks, assorted,
The Brig
■ y ( AMAZON,
:K. I FOR SAL! OK CHARTER.
I December 19 m w.&fa.tf
1* TTTS H L IN E NS, ■
4-4 and 7-Blh White
aflo etd EnrideJ '
ell J 3' 4 Brown <""• ditto [> to tha \
I 3-4 Irilh Checques suitable for the f Drawback.
Weil-India Market.
FOR SALE, 1
On reasonable terras—by the Bex or Bale, <
By Gamble (S? ffttMi/TH,
No. 148, South Si-cond-ftreet. t
I *k e *9 gtawtl t
No. 128, i
I The foutb-eajl corner of Market and Fquth I
v I Jirects, t
JACOB COX, <
fSE I f-T Sjo ft received by the late arrivals from 1
rth I ■*- Europe, a large, general and elegant 3.H- c
>m- 1 lortinenr mod
oii Farhlonable Merchandize,
(in the gentlemen's line)— The whole of which ]
wi.l be disposed of, wholefalt and retail, at re
j duced prices for ci(b.
t. I rfgc ' '9 aawrf
g To be Sold, I
The time of a flout healthy Negro Lad, aged !.
3 w about 17 year?, and bound te ferre until 11 ; r
- he is honest, underflasrta the usual buflnefs of a
family, and ha* bee* accuftoroed to wait on 1
le- 1 table—Apply to r;
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN, It
_| , . No. 41, Arch ftrtct. |]
led d<rCCn>bCr ' 9 dJI r,
it FLOUR, FOR S JLE, F
DELIVERABLE at N fw . Clftfe 0 ' p ort n
_ I Pcnn, by
j LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH It SON r
d 4 w a
Notice is hereby Given, ''
I 'T'HAT application will be made at the Trea-
X fury of the United States for the renewil /
ot the following certificates of Six per Cents, v,
r " 1^ C i' t r ft,nd ' r 'P in the of Robert if
o- of Calcul-a m Bengal, Surgeon in the o(
ce service of th« honorable United Company of
I merchants of England trading to the £aft-In- "
dies, which were loft from on board the Swal
low-Packet, capt Kidd, from Falmouth to New «
N r, DalU - Ctl.
INo 10,444, Reg. office 14th Dec.
I »7»3» one certificate for m ,
I No 10,478, Reg. office ijth Dee.
»793, one certificate for m 59 f0 ..
I Ellijion ss* John Perot.
- eod6w
il This Day Publijhed,
,e And for sale at the Office of the Editor, Nc. "
d "9 CheJ-nut-ftrcet,
(Price i-ith ,f a Doi ar,l
■AN- ORATION,
< V jounced July 4 , 17g8 .
f ,ht Inhib;,aTl, » •*> the Town 9f
Z f „„ / ! n c ° mrn cm«ratkm of the inm
\erlary of Anjcncan Independence.
«, . B J J 0 "*" Qvtnct.
Y fnp „„ e .'. nrold ' u P ono « r Public liberty, ciH
®f, r 'P^ ri, '°n—The wrong, wc have fiiftained, | U P
F r, ft-^ Cr J u^l ce, That Reparation and that
f J mee, may yet l»e obtained, by Uni<fn, Spirit, F
irmneu. But ro divide and cmqtier wis El
o !n!< ° in ,be of Eden, by
0 and to duurnte iml hilth b „ n thc prlnci . J
0 prefem." vo, - lr '" that period to the ne
3 Ofaervatitns on the Boston Port-Bill, tsfe.p. 78 " C
• joHN J. Parry, £
CLOCK £s* WATCHMAKER, 1»>
t HAS again opened at his usual Stand, No. 18,
South Stand fir ret—ivhere he has for Sale, dil
A VARIITT or Q c
Excellent Gold cs* Silver Watches, his
and a raw £ r
Eight Day Cclocks, b u
: Which will bt warranted to give fatisfaHion. his
[ -An afl'ortment of p r(
. StMavd Ctli C hain, f Se*L and Krjs. an,
Ad ktnds of Clock nnt4 IValcb work dune zuitb Ru
s Particular i;!t?niior. as be rtofore. t^c
Cr An Apprentice wanted. ; ti u
S rwember ix wo
Zi. ~ %i)t CE-ajctte.
for the . ..
l aTun Philadelphia,
THURSDAY EVENING, DECEMBER*O.
hat the
t enfu- OO MM U NIC ATI ON,
ice, on . __
0 alock Qgliggg 0 f Physicians of Philadelphia.
A publication has lately appeared in mod
npaty. 0 f the papers, from the Academy of Medi
,llf cine, intended to prove that our late fever
was generated in our city. The effect of
jr this publication has been, to puzzle and li
lence many people, but it is to be hoped, not
to convince any one that the fever is a native
•iY, difeale of our city.
The citizens look up to your learned and
refpeclable Body, to refute thc charges bro't
against our city, and thereby to defend its
f the crcdit and commerce from ruin. It is ex
e" pefted in your answer to the letter of the
Academy, that you will not reft the contro- '
t# k e verfy upon your own opinion, nor upon the '
opinions of medical writers, but upon facts
?ron- an d solid arguments.
Dec. 19. THOUSANDS. 1
From the EAGLE. .
IT is a practice which has been carried-io c
a ludicrous e>:cefs,in publiihingcafnal death?, ]
i, to caution ag.i.nit espoling tIK-mtelves
in a like manner ; ;(S riding on the toqgue j
of a cart, fwallowin<j too nitich gingerbread
y at once, or fufiering ia&nts to creep near a
boiling tea-kettle. Of this we have a curi
ous example from Stackport, in England—
s It runs thus "On Sunday last, as Mr.
Abner Bendifh stood shaving hiir.F.lf at a
glass near a table, a cat which happened to
be in thc room, observing the motion of the
;; m j. razor at his throat, and supposing it onlv
1, in play, leaped upon the table, and, luddenly
the catching Mr. Bendifli by the hand, occalion-
ed him to cut fuel) a gaii across his gullet,
that his life is nearly despaired of.—This is a '
an awful warning to people not to shave
themselves in anv room wliere there is a cat
present." John Buttonmaker.
From the Farmer's IVeekly Mufcum.
MR JEFFERSON.
f_ After «n experiment of some years, and j
after witocffi.ig adi, which in any other q.
government, eveo that of the Barbary ftatet, y
ed would not be followed with any thing like , c
o impunity, the raafs of American citizens J
lck - will rcfufc to re-eleft to the second office in 0 f
this country, a man, whose attachment, ot
objects, religion, philosophy, and morals. ar ,
are wholly French. Mr. Jefferfon and hi» nc
dark compeers, must work hard, for the ro
time approaches, when neither he, nor they c ]j
lhall work.—This vrfin author, falfe pro- c fo
ith P^ et » and thorough bred Frenchmao, at the
next eleftion, will be refused ty his
country. When his name is mentioned,
am or his pretentions canvafled, before thc Fe- ,r t .
afc deral American, he will exclaim, | l;l
" Fillow begone, 1 cannot brook thjr rule, ha<
" Thy arts have made th:e a mod ugly man " crt
ich Even the book cf the Piiloftpher will pass t h<
" I* vicum, vewffKUm thus et odfru
" Etfip.r, ft tpticqvid cbartis amicitur inefitij
and thc mafi will be remctnbcrcd by thofc
only who advert to his imprafticablc, fpecu
® lative, wicked politics; his intimacy with
• Benjimin Banneker, lh« black ; his (kill in
on anatomizing spiders ; and bis learned accu- _i e
racy in felefting muddy water, as a fcientific „f
Itandard weight—lndeed, the vanity, or thc
the ignorance of Americans has given tg this t v, c
- r 8 " I gK f ° f . fc . holirft 'P> which his ta :.
rrtnch-hke, fuperficial acquirements by no r ; c ,
(rt means defervr; In Europe his philosophy „f,
would be derided, and his learning surpassed,
"n iu 7 '£l V U ," g b °y> the "Spring of | y
_ "Gilbert Wakefield. Those who recolleft L
his antimathematical report on weights and : rr
*- * ch <>icc of rain -water for a
al Jtandard, and his childifti and toyshop in
:s, mention of an Epicurean chair, as he called !!,
W ~f \T /u knowlc 1 ge the farcafra and bc,ttt T fie,
* of the following lines,
*. y
fj- In latitude, just forty-five, t*oi
1 0ow ." a ll4rk , ccllar did 1 crc fp; o{:
' * ? n * on rQ pc would ftrivc ern
To measure pecks and bu(ha!s seat. troi
Of kenn;l water I did weigh Jor
" A pound—and thus a standard found ; mal
" For I'pite of dirt, dead cats, or hsy, l)m
" This pound will always a poun i. P Ol
f adit
" I've mide a noble, wriggling chair, by
" which tr.y fcieitie I retail, but
" And fit LIKK POLITICIAN RiRE, |
" Anrf move my snout without mv tail." w j||
Oaisi* tf EroH.'pj/tn 's Exrsbiriox.
'* Aftiir the coilQucft of Italy, and the Vln <
truce with the EmpcTor, thc DircCtorv were nitd
fearful left their armies might begin to call t' on
~ 1 upon an empty treasury for computation for v 'Be
, their iervices. To prevent this, a mightv a m
f( prade was made of forming the " Army of ditii
is Kagland ; and the soldiers were encouraged ted
1. by the alluring pidure placed before them blig
' 1 r ' c^es ot London, which were to remu- tion
nerate their ferrices in the moil ample man - P'Ha
8 nCr * . ln the mean t'nie, tp aid the v 4 ft pre- trull
lanjuons, «'putriofc gifts" 1 e not f^i
. n ,l fl f r wc rc i,,. lta |. difa.
and the fight of so many guns aiulba', onets th* ,
did Bot fear to .nfpire a pMc spirit, which telle
id the property of individuals upon the al- the
• i! ? ei rr m \ The noit - abr,ut
dmg England wasft.il kept up; and the lou,
Conqueror of Italy was to fill the measure of tion,
' pLf °7 I conqtieror of ofet
hi!t ■ n r a!Wrte was ca!led to saris ; the ,
but in vain was he flattered with a view of B
is Utiire glon-—in vain was it gravely theii
propQfct. to the CounciUto decree in crrtj
. anticipation of the Conqueror of Eujland— in
the rafft n U thui a ' fn i »- few
1 fh 0 "' C °" rto \ gcthim an may
k grand expedition. Wl»t was gera
he knew-iow to appreciat; his fer- the |
.«•■•. ' . •
-. ' *
1 vices, and fetuociauns w'nirli /r..
he was by a formidable phalanx * S
—ih ' n h ° m had t:<ken care tfc*'-"
oi Buonaparte, and fupporteVhU
to. the Dire don,-. The cufeVLw,] r 1,1
the other four D.r. aorVdcWm and
I— remedy: the
league were destined to the fcj CoU
had lately received tVom J Ch Caraot
He. Mar. w
noil prmc.p!< ,on which the DireAon^aae'idT
!£
; ive his colleagues with the avenge of
mil,tar y force, then at hand, if the jetft
,nJ 2RK7 offwd to him or ;he
and at the fame time proposed a compromise
its wrrZt n atr d f' nS ® uona P arte f col
ex- J r n^et at * oulon, and to proceed «»i a
thr fccret expedition of his own in their name
r °* to 1 thtir authorit >'- Thi s wasa d
the to ; but even the Director)- the,nfelves knew
:ls Toulo" J tl f ! Lr afttr its ***** from
th ° 1 U subsequent capture of Malta,
t | , j:,,""'- pt ' the °PPoHtion from
the Egyptians, and the deftruftion of the
nowT Heet ' 3re wei! known ; and it mav
now be a quefbon, whether Buaajparte's fate
S hs : ,auk ;' ofthr Nii; wiii w
es .'J';?" tha f w f h ' th was "'tended for him
ue | Pari " Wand, or afterwards at
f —"i
:-| ifamgit Articles*
a Preparations for War.
Ie _ lENNA, September
W j* Captain Pacha has returned to Gori
ly fo"tinople, and is preparing to fail with the
J. Ottoman squadron, to preceed, is it f s
t, thought, to Ejypt with the troops that are
is aflenibling from all points of tj* Ottoman
e Empire.
it September 20.
Our Court continues its warlike prepara
tions with encreafed vigor, since the news of
the defeat of the French fleet. The Hun
garian grenadiers, and five ltgimer.ts of
horse, have received orders to proceed to It,
al), and the \\ arafdins. are in Dalmatia.
The Austrian armv extends from Zara to
Carlftadt, Laibach, Klagenfurth, Brixen, and
9 \ erona ; it consists of 130,000 foot, aiid
e 30,000 horse.
8 The Ruffians march in two columns, one
11 of which proceeds from Kaminick and the
» other from Brodi—Several Ruffian officers
are already arrived at Lemberg, to make the
' necessary preparations for the march of these
f columns, one of which is to proceed to Cif
■r ciiau and Hungary, and the others to Jet.
- chen and Moravia.
e
» L ONDON,
» On the 26th ef September, a particular a.
• gent of the French republic took out of tlie
hands of the Royal Bank at Berlin, where it
had been deposited for tjo.ooo German
crowns, the famous large diamond, called
the Regent.
3Doincffic Articles.
I
ALBANY, Decem'ber 14.
It is owing, in a great measure, to rie
gleft of a djc examination of the eondufk
of our public Agents, arid to a want of
thorough mveftigationofthe meafurei which
' they hare adopted, that Jecobinifm yet re
tains a foothoid on the fiirface of the .A me- 1
rican foil. Too well it it known to the few
of the faction who labour to £ap the founds
_ tiona of Government, and who would glad
ly supplant the Rulers of the Free, even
through the medium of French aid, that no
ii'coniiderahie portion of the people are ca
pable of being acicd upon :—Cavil at thil,
ye vile caitiffs, devoted to disorganization
and hurly burly, proclaim to the class de
signated, that they are treated a 9 a " herd,"
by the" ariftocrati,*' —and that the affump.
tion of delegated power, and the usurpation
of authority veiled in a representative Got
ernment, are the necessary steps to the m
troduftion of halcyon day», and to the pft
dominance ft fa system which (hall eaiareto
man the blcfingt of a prophesied millensi
urn :—too well, I fay it 19 known that a
portion of the people are capable of bting
aded upon—it » rot meant'to be suggested
by thi« that nature in every cafe is falil'y—
but the fatt is, some will not cxercife the
reafou with which they are endowed—but
will devote their time solely to acquire
ments within a limited fphcre, without
properly adverting to the fmrce which en
ables them to fit each one under his own
vine and fig-tree: Should the barriers for
med by foreign influence, or domestic fac
tion, check the stream which waters the
viae, »r cause the leaves of the fig-tree for
a moment to droop, let the trumpet of se
dition be blown, arid Government be poin
ted at as the origin of thi drought and the
blight, and but too ready are the hft men
tioned class to attempt undermining the
pillars of a nation's political cxiftenee. 1 hit
truth is known to the leaders of every vile
fafh'sn—they are convinced ttiat whatever
difadvantage'or misfortune it brought upon
th« country by their unprincipled and d(-
teilcd machination*, tbey can attribute
the measures of government their du
ped and defpicabie tools will echo the
founds of violattd rights, infri"gtd conjli'v
tion, public libtrty in dangtr, and a long M
ofet ceteras peculiarly calcalatcd to answer
: the purposes of the demagogues of the day.
—But, the may be afftired that
their canting appeals to the paffians of a
certain class of the people will not answer
in this country —they may delude a few—a
few may join in the clamour—and a few
may be indamed to far as to point the d*g
gtr.it the bofonts of those who adminii'ct
the government whiah is over lis: but t^ ewdrt Majority of the people wi'! dcJanji me
public guardians and their meafuris. •
The State of New-York in a partial in
(l*nc:e. the States of Maflachufctts and
Pennsylvania, in a more alarming view, have
w itnifled the ruffian hand of modrn " re pub ■
Hcanifm " raised against the adininiltration of
laws enaifted by a majority of those to whom
the people had delegated the trull of form
ing such laws :—but what was the result ?
The proper nii'.hotities pointed out the
mode, and an infnlted majority executed
just vengeance on the di(lurber& of the pub
lic tranquility—but a few, it u true graced
a bailor, and but a fevr, comparatively, fuf
fered the confinement of f»lon» —mercy
withheld the merited punilhment —and ex
perience hitherto has juflifieel the benign
dispensation—but mercy has it» bounds—
and benignity its limits ; hardened villainy
will not escape, and a repetition of daring
crimes, will number the perpetrators with
those whose exigence ia deemed dangerous
to the well being of society. Let the de
luded of the present day beware—villainy,
and diforganixat/on are fporling with their
feelings—but when oce the standard of.re
belltoii againll the laws is ereiled, the
feou\drels who have deceived them will, if
the catife becomes hopilefs and desperate.
as it m 11 afTuredly will, lewe them to the
lalh of the hw. whilll they themfclves seek
fafety under aimeflv a£ls and oaths of alle
giance.—Our government, thank O-J, e
manates from the pewple ; our rulers are
chosen by the people: the laws they con
ilitirti'"<illy ena£l are binding upon the peo
ple, and the oppofers «f those laws are trai
tors to true republicanifn—are traitors to
our country. At each ele&iou the people
can proclaim their voice—the conduct of
those acting conformable to the authority
veiled by that choice, Ihojild he refpefted,
obeyed, fuppirted. Uulefs this is the cafe,
repubfTcanifm is a farce, a"d the only g:i
-vehnr.ent that can be maintained is that of
a tyrant who can point the greatest number
of bayonets towards the breads of the pro
pie.
It is a faCl with which the public mind
ougliw properly to be iinprefled, that the ad
dition;:! ta:;es aflefiVd by the national qraveniv
mcnt, are in Com : degree rendered necqflarv
in confluence of the condufV of tholb who
would palrti themfdves upon the community
for ns, friends to the rights of the
people, Sec. See. It is otting to the' impedi
ments this chfs have thrown in the way of
our national proceedings, that the American
charafter was reduced to so low aa ebb, as to
invite the insults and depredations of France
towards us, and which induced a helief with
the Directory of the Great Nation, that their
measures could be pursued with impunity.
Had not the wheels of government been
clogged with the clay of Jacobinism had
that manly and firm tone been adopted at an
earlier period, which has at length reduced
the tyrants of the French to lower their
notes, and even to deny (the cleared proofs
to the contrary notwithstanding) that a part
of tlifrir infamous conduft towards us was
unautiioriled, millions of dollars would have
been in circulation among us, which now
Contribute to pamper the pirates and free
booters of the great nation ; and the com
merce of our country would have been per
mitted to extent! fr, t\,eh a manner, that the
duties'ariiing therefrom would verv probably
have iupfneded the, necHTitf of' a tax on
hiufts and lands.
ALEXANDRIA, December iy.
Meflrs. Merriwclirer Jones and John
Dixon were, on the 6th infl. appoined Prin
ters to the Commonwealth by a joir.t ballot
•f both houses of the General Aftembly.
£ The former of these gentlemen is a
member of the Executive Council lat
ter publifked a paper called •« The Observa
tory, remarkable only for its opposition to
the federal Government and Executive Of
fi^(rs• and equal in malice, falfebood and in
famy, to the rcnotuned 'Surco ut PkOSIM,'
the tlu/lering Chronicle, «' Truth its Guide,"
or the blear-eyed Arus—wbo " guard the
Rights of Man !"—Thefe gentlemen are
no w in Partnerfbip, and pulilh a paper cal
led » The Examiner."
James Wood, Efq is rc ele&ed Gover
nor of.ibis State.
November 27.
Wc announce with great plealure the e
■ 011 ot Mr. Talhaferro, and Mr. Jones,
a> reprefrntatiws to Cougreis for this (late.
, orl >' oppo»«nt Mr. Baldwin, a
nun w,,0 Is well known'for his antifederal
pnncip.es, and opnofition to the federal go
vernment The federal chamfers of the
t-0 now elected, must give creat
fatKlaction to the friends of the general go
vernment and we f,Merely congratulate
them on. the event.
We Wpy also to add, that the evi
<l. ol f. derail lin arc daily ipcVeafuig a.-
tile cit,z;Tis of this state, and pmicu"-
Urly 111 the counties.
ftOSTOX, Deremhcr j Jf.
Hie lady of the Pfchdent we liave the fe
inty to learn, has recovery! from her long
1! Mis. So muc+ngoodnris could ill b» fpar
e-l iromthe world.
Complv.nt, are made in the southern papers
that the velVcls «rt war of the United. States,
air too often, and too long in port.—The i
principal part of winch, are now in port.
Tt 1; a foci* that the officers and crprsof
-nr.] St. \ "gent's fleet have not fat foot on
Unti for lit* illy iivc
V\e learn, that cant. Edward FrtHile, has
a-reptrd tl-.c First of the Fri
g te r.mHitntioit. •
t!ut («cn. Brinks,
r WWt aWyo f. tllf United States,
"as religiu j, J
.Jttif'' ila r' tin****
Wtrd he has ailo fep
paru d lier credit beyond fUtc S which hZ
J
lae j 1 ji'nat i>.V. . H t U.»h higher in
% I die li ile of cciui.le.ice than thole of any
in- , other nation oi Merop.*, and for every iiun
an,j | 4r£d pouwU of her hearing itia-reii at
isve i I percent ;:er a.yiuiii, above fifty pounds in
j calh could in October hft, at any raoment
nc f lie commanded. An equal l'tini of the fame
lom fjx:cies of pnper of the United States, will
rtT) . not command Fifty Pounds.
t i,g The BrltiHi Parjiaiuent is to be in feffiort
|te( j the 6th November. From his Britannic
iu (j. i Majesty's Speech we may expeft Ibme infor
• / mation of the new coalition forming ill Eu
fuf. rope to oppole the progiefs of French domi-
TC y nation.
CX-
We are happy to hear, the hon. Mr. Lee
accepts his feat Ltt Congress, for the firft
• Eaflern Di'.rict.
uny
in of
rith The Aurora of Philadelphia brags of the
ous *' ca 'th of Dr. Logan. Poflibly the vaunt
'tig is not baseless—The Dr. has been in
France—and the " grave reveals no secret."
n y>
Newspaper Jacobinism i* in a heflic in the
the Un ted Strttes—Trie faffron-coloarcd Auro
jf ra, enveloped in miirEey clduds, and de'eep
't tive fogs, is now the only harbi.T. -r'of ddu
five mock-sunJ. 01 i Argus, who once had
prefenfions to an hundred eyes saw a ■:v-
U e d<yp with one, and that blur. rhe
Cbrmique alas !—" sans - ins i nse
—vans sous."
are
The Jacobins, mutter abo: >• :■ toi'ttinepce
j of the United States, with r .<,3. as dit
to a< l v * t 'tage:ns.—lf it were nn iT"v to no
, tire fach blockhea Is, it v -uid net be mela
of P ro r os to fiy, tfisr : ngt- between
... , the two countries is -fr : 1 five to seven per
7 cent, in our favor. No bad thermometer
e ' of the date of trade.
de,
If'-
M 3. RUSSKL,
A Correfponcjcnt willies to have it ascer
tained through the medium of your valuable
paper, who is tnni" the United States tax
hd on Houses which are let, the owners or the
' eccupants. A discussion of this question,
d ' ' before we are called on for the money, will
" iiavea good efTect'to prevent disputes between
landlords and tenants. The author of this
. ' is of opinion the owners of houses ihould
' J pay the tax.
:iie r '
NEW'.YORK, December 18.
Nt" n t " communication.
lce Cititi n L has no sooner arrived in
ith town, t ' lan we ear fbnie democratic
e ; r movements. A meeting is called at a well
known honfe to morrow evening, at which it
en 18 expefled all good republicans—patriots of
ac j '7*5 —exclusive guardians of the r ghts of the
an P e ®ple are desired to attend, as some business
d of great importance is to be laid before them,
-ir ! rhere are some peifons though despicable I
ass m ta ' tfnts > ye' °f consummate impudence—
[rt of inflexible ptrfevertfnce, of artful address,
'as °' : desperate purpose, wbo ought to be
ve watched in all their anions—traced through
iw l ' leir windings, and ferreted out of eve- |
;e- r y f fcret alley and lurking place, to which t
n _ their <lark defigus may lead them; some
• r . plot, deep of root, e.xtenfive in its rafrvifica
]ie tloos, and ofUdlifh h«e, it forming—may
)t a timely discovery prevent the mediiated
011 blow from falling on the htadi cf the conspi
rators themf Ives.
From evidence incontcftible, it appears,
that the views of the revohers and rebels in .
hn Ireland were not pointed to Parliamentary
in- reform or Catholic emancipation, but to an
lot abfointe separation flora and independence
of Great Britain, the ere&ion of a republic
ia on the French model, the dtftru&ion ofall
st- religious eftablifhmeiits, and an alliance
,a- with France. At the very time, italfoap ■
to pears, that Earl Moira was pleading the e
?/. Cause of these Innocents, in the Irilh House 1
in. of Peers, and dating that they only wished c
i,' for a fair participation of rights, such as '
were enjoyed by their fellow fnbje£h l'n e
IE England; on the fame day, did the Irish |
Lre Executive Dire&ory resolve, that nothing '
al. which might be done by Parliament, (liould ,
divert them from the obje&s above menti
oned.
:r- At the revolution in 16S8, the popula
tion of Ireland was commuted at One Mil '
lion and a half. At the commencement of '
theprefent year, it was admitted to be full !
c- five m'llioßS. And all political writersfay,
s, that the increase of' Population in a Coun- "
e. try, is theflrongeft proof in favour of the /
a government being well conduced,and atten
al tive to the happiness ps its fubjefts.
0- In faft, the leaders of the late rebellion .
ie acknowledge that the c-nditien of the peo- t
it pie in Ireland h-s bren progreflively amelto- ,
0- rated ; but they add, that their Country is
te now too powerful to be an Appendage to ,
any other State ; ana tka: they had expeft- f
ed this have so universally
-• pervaded their countrymen, as to <nfurc ,
1 effed{iiig the establishment of their iadepen
dente.
1
1
On Saturday rveiling, or Sunday mor
e" mng was found in the H„dlon, the fuppo- I
iS fed body of a Mr. Yofn.g, late Mate of the ' <
r - Onp Edmbnrgh Packet, owned in this Citv. t
by Mcfs. S. Campbell r,nd 9. Pell.
Ihe body was found hacked and diffec- j
ted in a most horrid mar nerl—Our delicacy .
. ' will not permit us to hazard ,mr opinion of
the primary cause of tht. unfortunate your* •
man's death. ' 6
of " -' - .;.v . '••'.< 1
in NEWARK. December 18. 1
To All Malcontents. '
as A law is now in force, ia the state of
" A g r\ p d . in , the yea ' ' which en- t
ads, I hat it fliail and may be lawful for c
the governor, w.th the advice of the council a
s, of.the Hare, to beapprchettßed and secured,
9, or compelled to depart tU f common W//,,
fu /P'«;'o«" berng the' fubjefts of 2
any-foreign p,>*er or state, Who fl.a'l have j
id m?de a drchnation of war or aflually com- c
1- menced hblttlnies againfl the said ftatcs, t
■ c from tubom the PreJJent of the United Slates ' ;
' il jhall apphhrtu] hnjlile designs agcirjt the Jail
n>' flatrs, provided information thereof jhill have
been pteviou/ly rrcirveu by the executive from
at him ; and in such cases the governor, with
10 the advice of t e council of (late (hall and
at he is hereby empowered to said for the per
nc foil and pap-' is of any foreigner within thil
(late, in order to obtain information as he
shall judge reefflary. " All IherffTa and
goalers (hall fuch fnfpicious persons
>n whom by warrant from the governor they
lc (hall be com-nanded to receire, and them in
'* their prifoiis or custody to detain or trans
port out of the common wealth, as by such
warrant may be commanded." .
Between the alien law of the United
States and this law of the (late of Virginia
there is no coU'ifion. Their aim and policy
is, if\ principle the fame ; and (he latter is no
more a vitiation of the constitution of the j
(late, than the former a violation of the cr>n. I
flitution of the United States. Each is a- ..
like conftft'.itional ; and of the two the Vir- !
~ gmia law is the most arbitrary ; yet these
Virginians murmur at the law of the United
States.
le
3- MM
v- ' ~
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, DECEMBER to.
•Jt ,
The following are the Resolutions of the
Legislatures of Massachusetts and Con
n °
■ r mentioned t:i tie Governor's ad
>r dress to the Legislature of this Common
rjealth. .
COMMOKITKALTH cf MASSACHUSETTS. '
flosrofr, July 12:0, 1798.
Ie SIR,
x THE two branches of the Legifla- i
e ture of this Oonimonivfaltii have thought (
1 ' if highly mceiTary, that some constitutional j
" barrier (hould be ojipo'fed to the introduction ;
n of foreign influence into our National Coun- ]
:S cils, and have recjuefted me to transmit the
enclofed Resolutions to the Supreme Execu
tive of the feverr.l States of the Union, that
the fame may be fubmitttd to the conlidt ra
tion of their refpeftive Legislatures, in or
der that the constitution of the United States
may be so amended, as to effeit, more fully, (
" the great objects for which it was defxgned.
[j The Legiflaturc of this Commonwealth, ;
1 llrongly imprelled with the necessity of the
1 measure, have thought it expedient to take j
f this preparatory step ; and it is hoped, when ,
' the Legiflaturc of the State, over which you
• have the honor to preside, (hall be in feflion,
• and contemplate the importance of the fub
c jest, this Commonwealth will find itfelf ,
• greatly supported by a concurrence in the ,
• measure. To their wisdom it is submitted. ,
: I mud take the liberty of requeuing your (
1 Excellency to inform me of the determina
tion of the Legislature of your State upon 1
1 the fubjett, as fpon as it (hall be knowa.
I have the honour to be, 1
r with the highest respect, !
1 your F.xcell&ncy's
very humble servant,
INCREASE SUMNER. 4
Hit Excellency Governor MiFFLif. 1
c
Commonwealth ef Massachusetts. c
In the House of RepresenVaTiv ls, j
June 28th, 1795.
WHEREAS .t i* highly expedient that 1
c-yery eonftitutioiml barrjer fhouki be opposed c
to the introduction of foreign influence into t
our national councils, and that the conftitu- i
yon of the United States Should be so amend- 1
ed, as to effeft and secure, in the bed man- *
Ifer, the great 6bjec>s for which it was de- <■
signed : ]
) Resolved, That the. Senators and lispre- t
ientati\es oi this Commonwealth in the Con
gress of the United State:,- be, andthty arc
iiereoy, retjuefted to uft their belt endeavors,
tjiat Congress propole to the Legislatures of
( thc feVefal States the following amendment
I to the Cuiiltitution of the United States, vis, 1
That (in addition to the j-ther qualifications *
' tfreicribed by the fnid Constitution) no )ier- '
> son (hall be eligible as Prciident or Vice-Pre- «
• (idem of the; United States, nor shall any 1
perfonbe a'Senator or Reprvfentative in the
( Congress of the United States, except a na- 1
tural born citizen, or uhlefs he flmll have t
I b^ ena resident in the' United States, at the 1
time of the declaration of independence, and '•
(hall have continued either to rellde within «
the fame, or to be emplyved in its service, '
" from that period to the time of his election. 1
' And whereas the spirit-os amity and mo- t
: u,al conceflion, which procured the federal <
constitution, ought always to be cultivated <
in the proportion and adoption of any amend- 1
ments to the fame : . (
Resolved, further, I'hat in cafe the Sena- 1
tors and Reprefentitives of this State in 1
''.ongrefs shall find that the amendment, above I
proposed, is not perfectly conformable to the f
wdhes and sentiments of a constitutional ma- i
tority of both branches of the National Le- <
, iilature, they are hereby empowered and re- t
lefted so to modify the fame, as to meet (
• the sentiments of such majority ; provided, r
■ owevet, and it is the wish and opinion of 1
this Legiflaturc, that any amendment which a
may be agreed upon 'tjould exclude, at all
events, from a (eat in either branch »f Con
. S rc fs? any pcrfon, who (hall not have been
actually naturalised at the time of making '
thi* amendment, and ha-ve hefn admitted a
citizen of the United States fourteen years, *
1 at lea ft, at the time of such election.
RcSoked, farther, That his Excellency
t|he Go vcri;or is lKrebv requested to commu- I
cite the foregoing, resolves to the Supreme f
Executiws of _*he Uveral States, with a re- *
quest that the fiimc trw,' b- fr.briitted to the
. eonfidtrtitir.ti of their rei'pe&ive fiegiflamres; f,
and that the Prefulent of the Senate and the ti
t
tirl Speaker of this Ho ilk be requeUe d fortliv.it'
ve to transmit the fame to the Senators and Ut
m Rrcferitatives of this State, in C:»'igrtf3.
th Read and iinanimoully accepted,
nd acnt'up for concurrence.
;r. EDWARD H. RODBINS, Speaker.
it
he In Skxate, June 18th, 1798.
id Read and unan ; mouflv concurred,
ns SAMUEL PHILIPS, President.
•y 29th, 1798, APPROVED,
INCREASE SUMNER.
x j- A true Copy, attcft
•b Joh y sir ex r, Secretary.
,j Ne.tr-11-uzx, November 2, 1798.
ia SIR >
cy IN conformity to the request of th' 1
10 1 Legillature of this state, I liave the honor to
ie j tranfmk to your Excellency the copy of a re
I o<f\olier last, proposing nieafures for obtain
r j ing an amendment to the Constitution of the ,
United States,
j With great regard and respect,
I am, Sir,
Your Excellency's I
e most obedient servant,
JONATHAN TRUMBULL.
His Excellency Governor Mifflin.
At a General Assembly of the state of Con- J
neciicut, bolden at New-Hazen o;i these- 1
cond Thursday of October, A. D. 1798. j
A refolufion of the Legillatlire of the (
commonwealth of MafTaclnifetts, pafVed the r
twenty-eighth day of June, A. I). 1758, r
having been lubmitted to the conikieratiion
be of this Afiembly, recommending the adop
tion of rfleafures to obtain an amendment to .
the constitution of the United States, which '
fiial/ exclude foreign influence from her
1- councils ; and to Co-operate with the said
commonwealth in the attainment of an oh* 1
jett so important to our national indepen- c
dence ;
[Here the Resolutions are repeated<] f
Resolved further, That his Excellency the '
Governor be, and he is hereby requested to c
lt communicate the foregoing refclve to the Su-
11 preme Executive of the fevetal -states, and '
n also to transmit the fame to the Senators and 1
Representatives in Congi-efs. 1
e A true Copy of Record,
Examined by
•t SAMUEL "WILLYS, Secretary. 1
* Mr. Fenno, I
s IN your paper of yesterday, after a column
' of virulent abuse againfl United Iriflimen, '
you have introduced my name among those ,
' of sundry persons, who, your readers are "
given to understand, are members of that
aflbciation ; and thus, with equal decency,
truth, and juflice, you make me a participator
u of the abuse you so freely bellow. I am
' willing, Sir, to take your word, that you
were not the compilerof the lift, and that in
the insertion of it, you a&ed merely as Edi
tor, without pretending to vouch for its au
thenticity. But, Sir, let me alk you, how
can you reconcile to your duty as publisher ' j
of a paper, to attack the character, attempt
" to injure the intcreft, and disturb the peace
of a fellow-citizen, without fully and fatisj
faftorily al'ccrtaining the truth of the alle
gations you bring forward ? From the very
keen fenlibility you formerly displayed rei'-
pefting some ftridtures upon your father, I
(hould have expelled more tenderness for the
feelings of others, tlian you have exerciied
on this occasion.
l'o clofc this lengthy exordium, I now ,
declare unequivocally, that whoever inform- c
ed you lam a Member of the Society of U- <
nited Iriflrmer, is a liar, undeserving of con- j ;
iidencc. If Ido not apply any harlher e- j
pithets, it is not because the writer does not j t
t richly deserve them—but because I think a, j
•1 decent "re'c;arcT for the public (hould forbid ; a
0 theufeof such terms as his conduit merits '
. in a hewlpapcr. If the epithet I use, is too
. hard of digestion, he knows where to apply
. for a remedy. I pever in the wj-.ole oourfe ]
. of my life attended a meeting of United 1
Irishmen but once, and that was about eigh
- teen months ago.
MATHEW CAREY.
e December iq.
t
'1
f MR. FEKNO, ,
t Being last night informed that you had 1
:, mentioned my name in your paper of Tuef
s dRy as a member of th» l'ociety of United I
■- rifhmen, lam to request that'you will give
- equal publicity to my refutation of a Ciiarge
y wh'ich is at once falfe and malicious.
e I solemnly declare that I never was a
. member of the society of United Irilhmeti,
e either in Ireland of, this conntrv ; ntitlier
e was I ever preient at any of their meetings,
d nor even proposed as a member, to my ktiowl
n edge. I think it necefiary, however to men
:, tion that I do not make this declaration to
i. remove ?jiy supposed odium which may be
1- thought to attach to the members of that fo
il ciety ; for I believe the motives and view? .
cl of that afibciatiofl to be equally laudable and (
1- virtuous—so much so, that I Jhould not be t
deterred from becoming a member, nor from |
1- continuing if I had been one, by all the tor- '
n rents of abuse with which they have lately
e been honored. My principal view is to
ie (hew the public how falfe your information
.- is with refpeft to that society, even in what «
•- occurs almost under your very nose ; it is ,
(. therefore rcafonable to conclude that your r
t statements of the objedls and proceedings of 1
[, remote branches of that aflbciation mud, at
if least, be equally erroneous—much more, it
h appears, they coujd npt be.
II I am, Sir,
Yours, See.
1 JAMES CAREY. '
a This Day is Publiflied,
| AHD FO* SAL IBY J. FRKNO, I 4Q t C HIS NU T-f *EET
AN ADDRESS
v To the■ People of Maryland,
ON the prngrefs ard prc( lS t Rite qF i
e French aggrrflion. with a ftcrcb of :I.c iiifiimoiis 1
attempts to tiepraje the Government of th? United ;
. Sta<ci, and some re£leclio-'.i» oa the late proereding3
in Congreft; written the last of April in the pre «
j fertyear, by# Member of the Houle of Reprefen
: titivM. 5 jur.t 11
- , j.,
t' _/ CONGRESS. \\
" 1 l;c UoiiKr (ii KJprrr.iit-u.es of the t>»
(iited States tlus day, in Committee of thti
whole, took up for conlid-ration, the bill
i'or-eihUiUhiug an uniform lyfkiu of Kink*
mptcy, thrjughout the United States.
At a ineetingof tie C.tifceus of the Nor'
tfccnj Liberties and ScUthwdrk, at the house
of Anthony Wechtcr, lor the purpofc oi'
fixing- upon a person to irpreiL'nt them in
the State I.egiflature, in the roortl of John
Hufton, Esq. re%ned,
Rcsvl.cd vnininicwefo, That we will with
our \o:c anil interest support
Fhkei-rick Augustus
As a proper person, and recommend him
l - to our fellow citizens as fuch<
Joseph Cowpc rtbivaite, Chairman.
' B. Wood, Sec'ry.
n
It Is no longer doubled, that a fidffon,
ie inimical t« our cotititry, is busy at woik to
break, what Mr. Jefferfon in Id's letter to
Mazzei, calls the " Liltip ut an lands" by
which they are held in obedience. These
bands ate the Federal Con dilution ! The/V/»
habitants of Brodnignag will find their pow
ers too feeble for this undertaking.
Tutfday evening arnted In this city, Mr.
! - Jacob Mayer, Consul of the United State*
- at St. Domingo, accompanied b) a French
gentleman, who, we arc informed, is entru
e lied with an important million from Gene
* ral Touffaint to the Executive ofcthe Uui
ted State. <
11 ' _
!-
; <E>asctte flpatitte %itt.
d The (hip Neptune is on thore at Sandy
» Hook, and it is not eipeftf d (he will be got
- off* this winter.
The brig Pomona. Cgpt. Morton, caught
fire on Monday night lali, as Ihe lay at Port
e piers, bound to the Havanua, with a
0 cargo of iron ware and crates The fir*
was so rapid that any efforts to save the vef-
fcl were ufclefs 3 (he was therefore cut a-
J drift, and floated ashore on Reedy Iflartd,
where Ihe burnt to the water's edge. For
yinately 110 other veflel caught lire, though
several lay near her. We have Hot learned
how this accident occurred.
The (hip Superior, for Ha»anna, the
Neptune for Cape Francois, ai:d the vef
n fcl for Algiers, left Reedy illand on Thurf
; day morning.
e .. . ,
e - - ■
* POCK£T BOOKS, for the year I 7 £9.
'»
r THIS DAY WAS rUftLltHlD,
n Br WILLIAM T. BIRCH,
u No, 1?, South Sscond-flreet.
n THE AME RILA'N LADIES
;; POCKET-BOOK;
FOB sHE TEAR 1799.
V Embellilhed with miniature Jikeneffcs of thd
r . PreOdent of the United States and General Walh
't ington ; containing an Almanack, ruled pages lor
C memorandums, and for an account of monies re
.j, ceived, paid or lent, for every day in the year ;
new countiy dances, raifcclltncous pieces in profa
_ and verse, new fongi, a marketing table, and othi f
■ ufefdurables.
ALSO,
THE GENTLEMAN'S ANNUAL
1 POCKET REMEMBRANCER,
FOR THE fEAR 1799.
Embellifliad with the feme minista.-e liltrncfTes,
v containing an almanack, ruled for m.moran
- dums and a ca(h account, a lilt <.f the numbers of
- Coigref,, the departments of Stare, W,:r, Navy,
, j Treasury and Judiciary, with an account of what
_. it material in each; the federal courts of law,
Mint eftablifhmcnt, heads of all the 1 impor
tant a£s of last fcflion of Congreft, a IKI bi the
a flarr.p duties, of .duties payable on goods imported
1 md on dorr.eftic articles, a lift of the Sritifh na\ y
3 feveralufeful tables, and other ioter-efting marter.
Q The above books are neatly bound in red leather
with tucks asd pockets.
; Sold also by t). Hill, Baltimore } Somerville,
e New York ; Bisiley and Waller, CharleUon; and
i by the principle hookl'eiler- in Bjf'-n.
WHERE ALSO MAY EE HAD,
[pr.ee li 1-1 cirtM,]
Heads«f tke mod lmpor-Art of thr lafl fct
-flon of Congress, printed in a packet Cze, and
neatly don» up in marhl? paper.
W. Y. hi rcu l>i« 'orf.'.le, a gooda(Tor:n'.«nt of
merchants'account hoofc«, paper and other Uation
d ary goods, pUying carus, haii and leather trunk*,
''fc f9 W4W
; DRIED'PI ACHES,
In barrels
Demijohns ,
a Claret '
Porter, and > dottlSs.
r ' Port Wine J
And Corks in Bales For sale by
■l' BENJ. W. MORRIS.
Dec. 20 eo6t
I NOTICE.
to tlie lift will and testament
of Lindsay Coats will
j be fold by Public Vendue, on Thursday, the
third day of January next, at ten o'clock in
e the forenoon, at the jUvfe of Thcmaa Lowrj-,
n (sign of.the Bird in Hand) in Upper Merioa
- Townlhip, Montgcrriery c unty
y A valuable Grift Mill,
0 AND ABOUT
1 Twenty-five acres of Land,
1 Situate in the said townfljip, fevqf.l acres
s which are meadow, and ihe greater part of the
r remainder wood land.—The conditions of file
f will be made known Uy
t KACHEL COATS, Executrix,
t Dcc - 10 Ifthwfa 3 t
THEFORMS,
AS prefcrihedby theCommifliosers t f Pmn
fylvariu, for the return of DWELLING
HOUSES, LANDS and SLAVES, may be
had at
r Joseph b* Javies CruchhnnVs,
Nu. »7, Maiket Street.
Dec. 10 f3t ,
[j LOST
1: A BUNCH OF KETS,
3 R 1U RN therti to No. 7, Svttth Fourth
Strert, and be rewarded.
•| Dec 20 dtf-- .immi -. >< m■■m* *
Bank of North Ameriea.
_
THE StockhoWets are hereby notified, that an
f.le&ion for twelve Dir-'Ai rs, for the enfu;n< j. ,
year, will be I eld at the Bank on Monday, the
I4ih of January n;xt, at ten o'clock. j ,
RICHARD WELLS, Cafli'r. \ -JE:
t)ec. 8. 1708. dtEt__ ;
ANY French Ladies and Gentle-;
men wanting pafTage for France, can obtain it in j
a Veffcl at New-York, by applying to MclTrn.
Gahn & Mumford in that City-
Dec. 18. I
Ces Dames ou Meflieurs Franceis, qui veulent
paffcr en France, peu»ent hre accomocee, fur un y
hatiment partant de N. Yotk, en s'addn.flant chez
M. M. Gahn and Mumford, dan ccttc vUle. „
"c-18. : : d,
IUII SUBSCRIBERS,
Of the City Dancing Assembly
ARE informed, that the First Assembly will be It
held auThurfday the 10th inft. atCELi.KBs Hotsl.
Thomas IV. Francis fames Giifon
Thomas Ketkind Jonathan Williams
M.nhc-m Prarce Stephen Kingston
William Marpberfon Samuel Murgatroyd
December 11 dt2oP
NO TIC E.
ALL Perfor.s indebted to the Eftite of Wil
liam Ueauchamp, lately deceased, are ele
fired t.) make jinnaedia'e payment and those who r
iiave any claims against laid Eflate to produce"
thuir accounts properly atteded to
Sam?. Price, executor. Fr
tir>v IO
JMTALE,
By the Subscriber, « ,
Belfaft Canvass, No. i, to 7,
On moderate terms fox Calh or a short credit
,fames Lyte,
South SeirnthJlreet, near Chefnut.
nov 16 6
FOR SALE,
To be EXCHANGED for property within thirty
miles of the city, or to let on grouml-rent forever
Several valuable building Lots,
In Philadelphia,
Enquire of William M. Diddle, ne. 147, Chefnut
ftrccc.
nov 12
Lancalter County Butter,
IN KEGS,—FOR SALE,
Enquire at No. 92, Market-street,
near Third-Street.
dec t $
LARKNCE StCKEL ~
No. 155, Mar Let-Street.
First quality London Particular / "yVINES.
Madeira, Port, Sherry and Lisbon J '
Cogniac Brandy, ilt to 4th proof. k
Spirits.
By the Pipe, Hlid, Quarter-calk or Gallo*.
dee 3 mw&fiw
BALLAST.
A QUANTITY 10 be difpoled of, if applied for
ininiedutelv, on bojrd the 9hip Louila, lying
■M». HUMPHREY'S Snip Yard.
novembrr io. * 0 lr
FOR SALE.
Rice, in whole aqd half Tiercesi fa
Shc-e, .a«n W , NES 1.
1 ttneffile 3 5.
Carolina and Georgia Intiigo.
AND A PARCEL OF
Shipping Furs and Skins. ic
Appfy to la
*N. y. Frdzier,
N#. 95, So. Front Street*
nnrerober 13 3 taw 3 w
FOR SALt, -I
By the Subscribers 1
200 Bolts Russia Duck, £
5 c pipes London paiticijlar hill Madeira Wine rc
1 pair nine pound Cannon
A few Baits Madras Handkerchiefs
4000 bs Fine flon Indigo
13 Barrels Beef.
Willing! is" Francis:
Penn-ftreet, 7 " "
Novembtr t8 | §
- - I. ' -r-7-3 : ■ .>:■ ■
Prime Sugars,
Will Tie landed from the Enterprize, captain
Langdon, at Mcrra' wharf, /;
Forty one hogsheads of
Jamaica Sugars, of the firft qual
ity (entitled to drawback)
For sale by
Wharton bf Lewis,
• ao. 1 is, south Front ftr. '
diw
ALL PERSONS having'any legal <lemand6 a- J
gainlHhe estate of IVilliam Pa iiu.dece. fed,
late of the city of PhilafMphia, Tavern keeper, are _
requelled to furnifh their accounts properly au
thenticated, and all persons indebted to said estate
are r.-qacftcd to make payment to the fubfenbsr in 1
Philadelphia.
. LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH Adminr. v
October 3tft, 1798. ' ' ?
i c
Wants a Place, j
A WOMAN with a good Bread of Milk, ;
Enquire at No. 58 South Frqnt llreft,
Dec, to. i
TEN DOLLARS REWARD. \
DESERTED la It night, a fecoad time, from t
the Marine Camp, IJaviJ Luprr, a fifer.— 1
He had when he went away, a plain blue jacket and i
veft,bght-blue o vera Hi, a round hat, which h»dhe<n
bound with yallow, and which he had ripped off
in his fii ft deftrtion, and a pair of new shoes. he is
a Carpenter by trade, has grey eyes, facdy pair
fallow complexion and a niteh in his upper lip;
His back is ft ill Tore from a flogging he got a few
i.,rs ago. He may bo difcovtren by his fileuig,
ai lie plays extremely well.
W. W. BURROWS Major Cora, of the
O&ebtr 17. Marine Corps.
FOR SALE,
Fifty Acres of Good Land, ,
Lvmc in Gloucester County, I
State of A'eir.'Jerfry, 1
TWENTY-FOUR acres of whichaie c
Woodland, Ihe relt, Meadow. This
land lies about half a jrulc from Tiuiber-Creek,
and two nules from the river Delaware, the
county road pafiing through it, and the great
road only two miles diflant. For terms, apply
PATKICK DOGHEKTV,
Sign of the Rainbow,' in Shippen,
bciwcr* Second and Third jirrets.
!?ee 4 ftutb&'swr
4
TUii CAIGO,
Ok tll K Ship INDIA. Tl.u
C'.pt.iin AfciiMr.AU, from BATA\ !A, w
Consisting of
JAVA COFFEE,
Of the tuft Quality—to be Sold, by
MORDECAI LEWIS.
djw
Hec 11 v
FOR SALE, *
BY THE SUBSCRIBE**, I ~
14 four pound Cannon, ciffereot lengths,
f Carronades. „ _ r
JOHN NIXON & CO. i
December I. r
~ TO BE SOLD,
A quantity of choice Timothy Clover
HAY. i
I Enquire of the Printer. 1
december 7 ** 1
For sale by the Subscribers, but
The Cargo of the Schooner j
Sincerity, from LAGUIRA,
150 feroons of cotton ,
40 do. of indigo
stl fan»gas of cocoa
1056 hide, t
4 bundles of gum
38 barrels } COFFEE
I bale of Deer Ikins
Willings & Francis.
December 10, 179& '
« ■ — ' \
Now Landing,
From on board the /hip John Bulkeley, and
for sale at the (lores of Jeffe & Robert
Wain,
350,000 weight of Java Coffee,
of the firft quality in bags.
150,000 weight of Java Sugar,
in canniftcrs.
110 v. 23 dtf
Imported, j
In the Ships Active and Liberty,
from HjMBDkCH.
Ticklenburghs,
Oznabrigs,
White Platillas
Brown Silefias
Bretagnes
Heflian Rolls
Brown Russia Sheetings p
German Lindfeys,
Bed Ticks, &c.
For Sale by C
GEORGE PENNOCK. v
no. 103 Market-street.
(C bi
. nov 10 y
SHOEMAKER V BEK RETT, ' r
HAVR REMOVED THEIR ij
INSURANCE OFFICE £
to No. south Front street".
_ h
' Their rt.on at the Coflee-houfe will ccnffiiue to '*
be attended from 1 a till a o'clock ri the day, and rt
from 6 to 8 o'clock in the evening.
JACOB SHOEMAKER, P
Has 4lfu removed his Counting koiife to the Jc
' fame place, where he has lor sale a few pipes choice t,
London Particular Madeira Wine ; Freneh and
Spanilh Brandy ; Claret in calks and caf.-s. of fu- f(
perior quality, and a few Packages Giafs aad
Queen's-ware ; also, a quantity ef Carolina Soal- £
leather, which will be fold very low to clofc the' t j
falcs. j,
Philadelphia, It mo. it, 1798. 5 r(
THE PARTNERSHIP OF al
Alexr. J. Miller, & Co.
BEING dissolved on the firft inftanr, by the
, death of James Davis, all persons indebted -
to the fame are requested to fettle with the sub
scriber, and thofeto whom they are indebted are
e requested lo call on him for payment. r
ALEXR. J. MILLER,
No. 64, South Front Jfreet. h
Who has on hand, g
TO BE DISPOSED OF ON LOW TERMS,
By the Package cr Piece.
Fine plain and tamboured Muslin* '
Gurzennai '2
Batt as c
Collaes j,
n Rabobgungies
India Callicoes T
Bo<k Mufl'ni
Coloured ditto a
Real & Mock Madras & pullicat hkfs.
Brown Silefias f
Tickings, isc. i£c. ( ,
ti
JUST ARRIVED, 1;
_ AN ACSORTMINTOF
l ~ Irish Linens Sff Russia Sheetings. *
rl ! nov it i f
II A Young Man, p
hi "VYTHO .writes a good hand, w)d«rf)ands e
VV accounts andean be wall recommended,
wants a Situation as Clerk or Afliflant in a
Wholesale Store, orCoiiuting-houfe'." Appli- c
- cation to be made at tbh Office.
nov 14 si
To the Creditors of the Subscribers.
I T>LEASK'TO TAKE NOTICE, that we have ap
' 1 plied to the judges of th« Court of Common j
_ Picas, for the btnfh ot an act of affcmbly, pa fieri ilie !
fourth day oF April lalt; and they have appointed 1
THURSDAY the «7th inft. to hear us and our Crc- |
m ditots, in the etty of Philsrielphia, at lack place j
where the Court may be held, and wacre you may 1
nd attend ifypu pleate.
n PATRICK CAVANAUGH,
,ff j JAMES DOUGHERTY,
PETER G. ROSE, I
, ir JOHN GREENE,
„ * LEWIS D.GRHFF, <
' ' JAMES M-C.UI.KV, ,
RICHARD STOKES ,
8. 3<aw 3^r
he j~ L ~0 ~~S T ~
IN one of the flreeta between Union and Saf
fafras, on the sth inlUnt, the outQde Cas*
ef an Englifli Gold Watch, chafed on the bank
with a lhield. A njrperfon who may find the
fame, and will bring to this office, will receive
four Dollars reward* and the tliank» of the
. owner.
Z dec. 7, -, : •... 'i •yKlgj;: : !
h k ' All Persons '
at Indebted to the Estate of HENRY HlLL.deccafed
]„ are rcrjutflod to nuke payment to the
and those having any demands on the fame to pro
duce their account!" for f<ttlement.
GIDEON H. WELI S,
no. T\j. Market ftrcct
Philadelphia, dec. 4, 179$ cots
fresh FRUITS i
Tills Jay, will he landed at Hatni.toti 3
wharf, from 011 bo?vJ the brig &Uza,
captain Vaugliais j
MALAGA FRUITS,
Of the belt quality, conlilhng of
Sun Raisins In kegs, _ tion
Muscatel and Bloontc do. in boxes, in ti
Figgs in kegs and boxes, ilr ™
S) i Soft (helled Almonds in sacks,
Jordan do. in boxes, I to p
Lemansin chelts, I \ U v
Anchovies in kegs, j frot
Pruens in boxes, j 1"
A few jars Grapes, &c. &c. I pari
Also on hand,
Holland Geneva in pipes,
Sherry Wine in quarter calks, 1'
_ French and Spanilh Brandy in p pes and _
bnits. .
>r Bell Olive Oil in bo#es of 12 bottles
" f For Sale by PETER KUHN,
No. 179, N. Market Street.
December 6. a
John Miller, j ulir * ' t
Has returned to the City,
ANO I» REMOVING f*o* NO. 8, CHESNUT, I
To the Five Storv Building, in Dock I I
near Tbird-Jlreet. I
Where ke has for Sale J
L 2co Bales of Bengal Goods > I nae
comsistinc or j deb
Coflaes
nd Batus
ert Mamoodies
Humhums 1 j
Calicoes
e > Handkerchiefs, iSc. Isc.
The remains of a Stock err
DRY GOODS, Fc
f Conjtjling of Woouss only, I
amongst THIM SSI, I t
Cloths g t T]
Coatings 1 1
' Blankets I of
Kendal Cottons | ele
Hats, Sec. I Gr
ALSO, j hai
ioo Hhds. of Old Rum,
Of a fine flavor, 3d & 4th proof.
nov lo I
Forty Dollars Reward.
DESERTED, 1
From a Detachment of Men under my com- I Ri
mand, at Camp IVeJi StbuyHtil, viz.
Odobcr 19. I a,
George kellek, 40 y«" of age, $
feet 6 inches in height, dark hair 1
complexion, bora in Holland, no Trade, speaks I
x broken English and very talkative, has a dimple I
rh - in his chin. J
A j November 6. John Murphy, 17 years ot I
age, 5 feet 7 » inches in height, grey eyes, dark I
hair and complexion, born in Ireland, city of I
Dub in, by trade a Hozier.
Jacob Iden, 34 years of age, f feet C inclws I J
high, grey eyes, sandy hair, frefh tomplexion, I ha
te rn ' n New-England, state of Connedlicut, a I ch
a[l( j repeated deJ'erter, by trade a Blacklmith. I 3t:
November 7. William Collins, joyeais of 1 a l
age, 5 feet 6 inches high, sandy hair, frelh com-1
pfexion, grey eyes, born in Ireland, county of I na
Wexford, by trade a Gardner, has worked for I "
1 the some time about Philadelphia, he is very fond J
loics ( 0 himfelf Sing.
and t i, f a bove deserters are very touch addict- I
f fu " fd to li-quor, and will take other people's pro- I y
. iB . perty if in their powe-r, are artificially marked I
"T~< on their backs, had on, when they went away, I
L their regimental olothing. Whofoeyer appre-1 7
. hends said deserters, (hall receive forty dollars I (
3 reward, or tfn dollars for each, with all reifon- j .
able txpences, by applying to me as above, I i
EDWARD MILLER, taptnin
id regiment of Infantry commanding. j
k( nov 10 ij
sub WOODBURT ACADEMT.
THE Trustees of the Woodbury Academy, I r
iit thecuntyof Gloucester, New-Jersey, I
hav* the fatisfaflion to inform the numerous I j- £
patrons of that institution, th'at tbey have en- I p<
gaged the Reverend Thomas PHton, to be :hc I
principal, and to take upon himl'elf th» charge 1 c(
of the above seminary of learning, and that the I
school will be opened on Monday the tenth inft. I .
Among the exerctfis taught here, will be the I
Engli/h, Latin and Creek languages, cramati- 1
cally.—Reading, Writing and Arithmetic in all |
its branches j Stenography, Geometry, Gcogra- I
phy and the uft of the Globes, Navigation, Sur~ J .j
1/eying, &c. . j .
This institution was formerly under the care I
and direflion of the Reverend Andrew Hunter, I °
ls - and the fame attention to the education and mo I _
mis ps the yofth, which under him so highly I -1
diftinguiftied ft, will be pursued with unremit- I
ting endeavors, by the present principal and du- I
ly attended to by the trustees. j.
The town of VVdtjdbury is fi'uated on an high |
le . s> and elevated spot :It is airy, pleasant, »nd re- I ,
« ' markably healthy, and is but nine miles distant I
from the City of Philadelphia. |
Pat ent?, guardians and others, who are'dtf- I
posed to fend their youth to this place, will find I
(Mids exceeding good, deLent and comfortable board- I
' ing and lodging, and upon realonable terms.
ln 1 Further may be made to the prin- j
PP' 1 " cipal, or I s
, J°hn Sparks <j
-i— Thomas Hendry
srs. Fran Win Davenport
veap- Jo/hua L. Howell J-ITrullees. I
7 t °"e I J ohn Bletciwjod I j
jinted j J*hn Lawrence I I
' Cre - I Thomas Heflon J '
j£° y I KLISHA CLARK, '
Secretary ef the Board.
JH, Wo«dbnry, Bft 3 diet ]
All persons
Indebted to tha Estate «f Mr. John Finno,late (
o Philadelphia, deecaCed,arc desired to make pay- j
, nient, and those Saving any demands, to present I
them for fetthhrent, tc
3*_ SAMUEL BLOBGET, Adm'r. ~
or ,
JOHN WARD FENNO, Agent <
I Saf- to the administration. |
Case nov. 3o {?m ,
bask
d the NOTICE,
rceive ALL persons indebted to the Estate of Sam
s the L*- UfV W allis, elq. of Murcey township,
in the county of Lycoming, lately deceafed,are
hereby required to cou>e forward immediately
ano pay their refpeftive debts.—And all persons
having legal demands against the Estate, are
cased rtqiitfted to produce tbeir accounts, properly
iacr • authenticated, for settlement.
pro JOHN WALI.IS, ~)
MTLttAM ELLIS, f Adminiftra-
DANIEL SMITH, C tors,
ftrect JOHN ADLUM, J
wtf December 13 3ta\v4W
aftfiwt V i :
j George Davis's rri
LAW-BOOK STORE, **
No 3>9 High Si rest.
Latest London & Irish Editions.
DAVlis's lull importation isnow
arranged of which a more capital collec- nn ,
I tioti he Mieves was never oflcreil tor lale eith.r _
=n this City, London or DubWn- It combines
I - Inioft every book in.wrth several valuable books
out of print. Davis's confining himfelt to the / {
file of Law-Bosks only, it will appear obvious
to profcfiional Gentlemen, the advantages they
have both infeletfion and price by purchasing Ame
fr °His cTt'alogues being ready. gentlemen wUI book
I particularly oblige him by calling for them
and to thole reftding at a difta«?e, by „ Na
him with their address (post-paid) they (hall be >(
fCI "" '/
\ nov zo " th<
" ADVERTISEMEN f. ;;
Todd & Mott, ;;m
lOs the City of Philadelphia, Merchants, having j n
- 1 ailWued over their effeils, r«al, perianal, and Uniti
I mixed, to the fnbfcribers for the benefit of all
mailt
I their Creditors — # chart
Notice ig hereby Given, offu.
I TO all persons who are indebted to the said
I JL estate, that they are required to make iin-
I mediate payment of tbeir retpe&ivo account to
I either of the aflignees, in failure whereof legal
I mealures will be taken for the recovery of fa ch
{ debts as are rot difchai Red without delay. [
John Waddwgton 1 Nou
John Rhoites >- Affignecs. at M
John Allen. J
I nov. *6 tu.th&fatFt
To be Sold,
j OR EXCHANGED,
I For property in the City, or within Thirty
miles of it,
I A Valuable Plantation,
I TN Tulooroia Valley, Mifllin county, containing
I A ab«ut three hundred acres, the whole capable | ron
los cultivation. At present there is abciit 50 acres w
I cleared, 10 of which is a rich bottom ol Meadow J M
I Ground, enriched by a never fading stream, that £ al I
I has fall and water enough for all the purpose- of Cl
I a Country Mill. For further information apply at Can
I No. 68, Market flrcet. Rou
Hovemki'r 10 < aw Pat<
NOTICE. «
1""HE Stock-holders of the Company encorporat- '
I A ed for ere Sing a Permanent Bridge over the
n- Rivsr Schuylkill, are requcfled to attend their J
I annual meeting on the firft Monday in January ~
I next (being the 7th day of that month) at the City
. I Hall, at ten o'clock in the forenoon, for the pur
fi I pofc of choosing a President, twelve Diredors and
I a Treasurer of the said Company for the eofuing ol]
J year, as bylaw is dircfled, .
I JOHN DORSEY, fec'y, pro tens.
f | dec 17 3awt7jy
rk ACAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
of J
I TOHN At SHAEFFER, »f Philadelphia, who has Jp
>*s J J for a few years pad been in the Southern States,
n, I has had the effrontery to draw fevcralßiUs of Ei- J
a I chang« on Timothy Pickering, Esq. Secretary of
I State, and myfelf,and by that meant has d<;|raud;d
0 f I a number of persons of their money, deceiving are
m . I them by an exhibition of letters and papers with the _
0 f I names affixed of divers public charadteis and repu- 0
• pr I table merchants highly recommendatory of said On
n< j I Shaeffer ;to one of these papers 1 find my name coi
j filbferibed, but Ido not know the man ; these arc || o
« I villainous forgtries! To prevent further imposition, •
■" *I I have to requcft the printers of Ncwfpspers in the ' »
ro T I United States topublilh this for Jie benefit of their
ed I fellow-citizenk. SAMUEL MEREDITH,
i y* I Treasurer us tit United States.
re " I Trentm I '~7~ \ - —-4—-- -
lts j Otlokw 14", 1798. }
m " Weiv a'ovels, plars,
MAGAZINES, &?c. of
j 7 js v
Chalk's Circulating Library. •« r
No. 75, North Third-Jtreet.
I r 1 'HE Proprietor, in compliance w(th hit pro
:y» I 1 mife»to render this Institution a complete
5,15 I source of rational amusement and inftru<flion, by
f"" I repeated acquisitions of eatertaining and intereft
1C I ing publications, has now added to his former
8 C I colleifiion Four Hundred Volumes of mifcella
' c I neous works, comprising nearly all the laUfl
* \publ jt.ed Novels and Dramatic froduHions ;
. e I catalouges of which art ready for delivery to _
ltl * I fubferibers.
* I N. B. Subscribers, and others, ftill re
r°" I tain Books taken from the Library previous to
ur " I the sickness, are to return them imme
* I diately : the fines will be ckarged from t:.e 14th x
" C of November. \
no I l— * cii
My English &. American Playing Cartas, f
lit'- Sold Wholefalt and Retail. £
j i' r Wholtfale dealers supplied with Boston th
j . I Card? at the fame prices ai at the manufa&ory.
° I Fine Savored Imperial, Young Hyson, Hvfon, -
' I Hyson Skin, and Souchong TEAS.
M- t^mßw
ur I Valuable Property for Sale. j;
r<l " FOR SALE, o
tin- THAT well known inflate, called p
J SHREWSBURR FARM, formerly the residence p
I General John Cadwaladar, fituit# on Salfafras ,■
.iver, in K.en: county, Maryland—containing a- '
BVlt 1900 acres of prime I.MND, Upwards of 500 "
T whiter are in wuoJe. The Building-- are all ex
:CE* 4ell»nt, aud coalili cf a hanil jbic Dwelling House,
two large Bvns with Cow hoyfe,, Stables fcr fifty
horses, a'pei-ioub treading lloor under cover, a gra- 1
oary, two Jverfeer's houfei, two ranges of two ft«- 1
Ty buil«!ingsfor Negroes («neof them new and of 1
brick), Corn houlcs a Snioak fcoufe, ike. 4cc —The
whale Mate being nearly surrounded hy water, it
reqnirci liutlittle fencing, aud has a good Shad and
Herrinig fitbery. It is convaniently situated for
both v'*_- Philadelphia and Baltimore market.,with
,late two Jandings 011 a navigable river but, a lhoi t (ail 1
P s y- from Baltimore. There is a large Peach, and two n
sent larj>e Apple Orchards on <he prennfes; also, a varie- v
ty <if excellent fruks of different kindi. Thgfoiiis F
r* moi.Uy a rich team.-—The whole will be fold toge- r
ther>tr divided uito lmallcr farms(toc which the buil
ent ding* are conveniently fitu»;edj as may fuittbe pur- ■"
n- hater. The Stock on said Farm, coßlidiag of Hor
!n cfes, (battle, Sheep See. will also he disposed of.—
For further particularsapply ro GiorceHastincs
on the premifcs,ortothe ftibfcribrr, in IHiiladclphia. ]
AM- ARCHIBALD M-CALL, Jun. :
[hip, December 11. t C.
,ar« n r: p - j
tefy Notice. i
! «e persons indebted to the Ef- 1
cr |_ tale Of Isaac'i Klpas*, tfq acccjltd, arc rrijueU- '
' ed to make immediate payment, and thole h*«nig a
nv demands (lid Ellaie will plraleto furnjfh
Ujeir accounts duly itlcfted for fc-ulement to
george davis,
Attorney in fatl to
JOHN M n.Ad'm'u.
W Tec ig. -
■. i .
AIL PERSON'S,
HAVING elaim« against the ESTATE »-
SUSANNAH LOCXTER, deceased, ir( ,.
requcfted t<» present their refpeflive account t> wi
NATHAN A. SMITH,-} . .
Oii ( 4?" v
I JOHN DORSET, j Execu k "-,
, r nnv *> Taw6vr
cs DISTRICT Oi l ' YLVANIA, TO■ Wlk" j~
ks BE IT REMEMBERED,
ie w r. THAT on the twelfth day
U! V /of August, ill the twenty-third year 0 f
ry * the Independence of the United Stat«s of
lg America, Bcojamin Smith Borton, ef the said dif
trifl, hath deposited in this office the title or a
ill book the right whereof be claims .1 author in the
words following to wit :
ig " New Views of the Origin of the Tribes and
be " Nations of America—By Benjamin Smith Bar
" ton, M.D»Corr«lpondeiit Member of theSocie.
" ty of the Antiquaries of Scotlaud, Member of
" the American Academy of Arts and Sconces of
" Boston, Uorrefpondidg Member of the Mifa
" ohufetts friiHorical Society, and Prot'elfor of
" Materia Mvdica, Natural Hiflory and Botany
" in the University of Pennsylvania."
II * In conformity to the ail cf the Congreft of the
n ' United States, iatitled "An ait for the encourage
-3 * mailt of learning by securing the copies of mifi,
charts, and books, to the authors and proprietor,
of such copies during the times ther.in mentioind.V
li(1 SA.MUEL CALDWELL, Clerk, Dill, of Penn'
November i, 171)8.
pi Java Coffee,
350 Bags of First Quality,
Now Unking Irom on board ti c lhip INDIA,,
at Mr. Thos. PenroTr's Wharf, and tor fa!c by
John Ai!j vie ad,
No. 265, Sooth Front-Street.
WHO MAS ON HAND,
For Hale, on rcafonablc terms,
CoiTaes
st y liatus
Black Taffatiea, Stc.
[, dec :c rodtf
Just Imported,
■k' e Iron cannon, double fortified, WoohvicU proof,
.res with their carnages complete— 3, 4,6 and 9
ljw pounders.
ns ' Carronadcs, Wnolwish proof, with carriages, &c.
°' complete—u, 18 and 24 pounders.
l at Cannem powder in kegs of ajlbs. eacl)
Round, double-headed, and cannilUr (hot
Patent Iheathing copper, bright, assorted 18, 20 y
It, 14, 16 and »8 or per square foot, sheets 48
rat by 14 inches, fuitatlc for from ico to
1 . Copper nails, baits and spikes.
larv Bowdin S PiU "-
v, Common cutlalfcs
Gunners stores of all kinds
,ur T Tin-plates No I—l-J cross b"xes
Patent Ihot in caiks of jewt. each
in S London porter and ftaut, in talks of j doz.
bottlad.
'■ Earthen ware in crates, assorted
Ftr Sale by
51MON WALKER,
Pine'near jth rtreft.
has October 2q. eo tf.
e"' lnfa rance Company of North America.
4$ THE STOCK HOLDERS,
"",' g are hereby Informed, that a Hated meeting
\ t u <: qf the Company will be held at their Office
said on the Bth of January next, (being the fe
ame cond Tuesday in the Month) for the elec
arc don of twenty-five Diveftors for the enfu-
A ™' ing year.
'' hr ' E. Hazard, Sec'ry.
I, Dec. 121 h.
tj/cs. ■ " " 7" ~ '
An Apprentice Wanted.
A YOUTH,
Of Reputable Cormcftionl, & fufficicnt qualificanonl,
is wanted as an Apprortice to the Bufinelsofa No
tary Public and Conveyancer.—Ejiquiie ot the Prin
ter.
Dec. f m.iw.
Toll T
>lete " 7 ' ® ourH F«u*,T.H-3Titti, 'x
~ t,y 1000 pieces Nankeens,
:reft- A Bqk of Silks
rmer ao Boxes powdered Sugar Cindy of I33 wt< '
j tlla " A parcel vety line Caliia.
ate fl c. lUIGHT.
' 1 dec e
•y to JeM-3
{l re For Sale,
us to A well improved Plantation,
ime- Of 0:1 c hundred rtnd twenty acres,
14th xt£ry beautifully lituated in the coußty of
V Montgomery, all out twenty miles from the
city.—Th» buildings are all new aud finilbcd lo
rtls a ' te accommodate a genteel family only -
' further information, enquire at the PcnnlyNant*
Coat-os-Arms, nineteen miles lrom town, an'
STON three above Morris-town.
lory. deccmber 15 fe.4w.ti
yfon, —: —— *'; ..... .T~Z 1
Philadelphia, November
™Bw /\ LL persons defirousof furAidnng by contra
xjl rations as proviSonj, ftrtW and fuel, or >
* the troops, which now.ax», or nereafttr m<7 '''
at any or every ftatiop, poll, encampment, rc
cr uiting rendezvous or dUwhere in the rate <
illo/I fennfylvania, tcr and during the yaar J7?9' ll
lUetl cept at Prefqu-Ifle, La 13, ruff, Fort FranW a"«l
ld ? ncc Pittfburg—will be pleated to (■ nd m the.r i ro).u
llalras unekr sealed covers, on or before the »ctii oi
'"8 a * nest month, December, to
Ji.tco TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor.
ill ex-
r'fift* THE RATION TO CONSIST OF
I I ~4 pound of beef or 3 4 •* » oi port
vo°tte- *8 ounces of bread or flour
aiid of x °f rum « hrandy orwhifkey.
)-{, c 2 quarts of fait
,ter.it 4 H u » r " of vinegar ( For cvcrj - JC o rations,
id and 4 pounds of loap f
•d for r l-»lb.candies. J . ,
' w ;. h As Conerefsmay at their nrxt felfion make ai
n't lull terations in the quantity k iomc of *he '""P"
id two ncut P art! °f th ' s rl "' or —' c ' s re l u o ', .l
varie- who offer proposals to name the price o
•foil is P art > which will lerveto govern 111 ciA. ol
i.fn,,— nution or uicreafe. , n
nov. 26 fi.wcVh taoP
sc pur- r -
fHor- Mrs. Spurrier,
rrmos mIDWIFSj • ,
elphia. F rom the citvof London Tying-in Holpitai,
|un. T.WIBRACEi this opportunity of returning #'
'• t[ ; . I i iineere thanhs to thoi'e ladu-s * .
had the honor to attend, and mbftrdlpeflfu y
forms them and h»r other friends that u ' •
.F f moved to sou h Sixth street two doors
nut street, opposite Cougrefs Hall, w^ erc . {
ters lurfelf by careful att«ot : on to the duties
■as m """""""" i""'- •".
Si. MAYOR'S OFFICE
Rf.MOVED t» is 7 South Sccomi-flrert.
tye y l ™