> Jf . . 4 ** ; -! v - '• • * t " //'
©fijtttt oiihc ® liltftj P Adverhseh
By John Ward Fen no, N c> ii 9 Ckefmit Street.
/ j .j .
" hvMSFj. 19450 " SHILAD ELP HI A: TUESDAY EVENING, DECEMBER in '798. XIV.
Cj* Tbe price of this Gazette is
Eight dollars per annum to Subscri
bers reftding in the city of Philadel
phia. All others pay one dollar ad
ditional, for encloftng and direding; |
and unless some person in this city will
become answerable for the fnbfcrip
iion, it mult be paid Six Months in
advance. '
' 1 ' u ".si
for Sale, |
. J*""3u, THE SHIP i
PACKET, i
Hi CtNGS CowPEItTHW <IT, N| i( * er ' i
BURTHEN abaut i.J°° Harrfls, a £°* • ro ' :l ]
Ship—has excellent ai*on>ron«btiowforwirciiKrs,-
be font to sea with fr.iall cxpence. She is lay- j
if,t Mifflin's wharf. For further part,cu.ar en
u'uirc of f
Isaac Harvey, jun, or ,
Smith & Ridgway. <
noVcmbcr 16 I - t
S:ll j fh.o, if not fold on, or before the ,?th
of ifce.mber.mft. will on that day.in the evening,
he offered (or sale by public asclion, at the mer
ijiants's coffee hsule.
Smith y Ridgwny,
Isaac Harvey, jun.
<-"■ 3-
FOR SALE, '
i-*"**- TUB SHIP I
PERSEVERANCE,
'James IVtlliamfon, majlcr.
Just arrived frorrySt.Domingo, built in Phi
ladelphia. <f live Oak and Cedar, copper sheath
ed in London, burthen 310 tons mounting 16 (
jjuns and may be prepared for sea in a few days,
With her Cargo,
Now on Board,
♦ COMI STING f)F
151 Hogshead* and 50 barrels Susar
160,000 Weight of prime Coffee in hhds. bbls
and bags &
31 Puneheons of Janiaici Rum.
ALSO,
Williamson, Majter.
|FROM St. Donaingo, with her cargo, consisting of
43 hoglheads of Sugar,
iAiid 40,000 weight of prime Coffee.
LIKEWISE,
THE BRIO
AMIABLE MATILDA,
MOUNTING ii Guns, burthen
thousand two huudred barrels of
iflour, and in somplear order.—Apply to
Thomas & "John Ketland.
November 1.1 $
For Sale.
'"{"'HE Subscriber, intending to decline the
1 DRUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the
-whole Stock of
iDrugs anil Medicines, Instruments, &•_.
The (hop is elegant, commodious, and fulfici
«ntly known for the exttnfive business i one in the
vholefale an i retail line ; the Gtuation oqual to
any in the city, being *tthect>incr of Walnut and
Seoond ftrcets. The whole, or any parr of the
Stock, will be fold, as will hefl suit the purchaser.
Tha terms may be known, by applying to
JAMES MOORE, jun.
IVlo tat For Sale,
Two
PI —3.SS/ffiy.
Well caltulated for the river trade—
. The P*ggy, about 3otonsburthen,
Mulberry and Red Ccd r frame, and remarkably
-stout, of an easy draught «f water, rigging in
good order.
The Sallv, about 30 tons, fails
-well, and in complete order for thelumberbufinefs.
Ail persons indebted to the late firm o4 I
GolihLnfait <s* Baldwin, W. B ■ Gcldtbivait, GOLI
- or the are earnestly
requested to make speedy payment to
JAMES MOORE, jun.
august 3 §
BOSTON BEEF,
aoo Bdrrcls in Shipping Order.
FOR SALE BY
JOHN SKTRIN,
No. 96, Aort/j From-Jlreet.
Who wants to Charter,
A GOOD STOUT VESSEL)
about 300 Tons burthen.
11 A% ALSO FOR SALE,
40 Pipei of Madeira Wine, 3 years old.
FOR WILMINGTON,
Nio rth - Carolina,
THE SHIP
COMMERCE,
Captain Wood,
WILL take in freight on very mo
derate terms, and fail about the
c;th inftart. Apply to the Captain on board at
Latins t*s wharf, or
Willings bf Francis,
Penn Street,
november 16
FOR SAVANNAH,
he fast sailing cad well
%jlm& accommodated Ship
Patrick Guraßsn, majlcr.
it, ci mliiit fatlcr, will fail in a few days.
}'' ' or paiTage apply to the maftcr on
Wd, or N. (3 j. FRA7.IEU,
No. 95, South Fiotit-ftreet.
dec 4 dtw
~ MAYOR'S" OFFICE
EWO\ i 0 to I?- Sci.th Srcond flrcet
4 jw
v - PI . ■■ l *
Ship Broker's Office,
And Commtffion Store,
No. 119, South front Stsfft,
Next doir to she Cuftois House.
npHE Subscriber, encouraged oy tae advice of
JL his friends, offers his lervice to the public
as a Ship and Infuranct Broker. He propos
es to buy and fell veficls and every thin j relat
ing thereto —alfift matters of vcffels and others
in entering and clearing at the Custom-House,
procuring and lhipping freight, fettling Inl'ur
anre and all other mercantile accounts, and
have on hand the oeceffary Blanks and Stamps.
Papers in fcreign languages translated, and in
formation given in general mercantile matters.
—From a knowledge gained by long experience
of evtry branch of hufmefs he hopes to be ufe
ful to those who pleal'e to fivor him with their
conimands. SAMUEL EMERY.
noveiriber 19 §
For SALE or CHARTER,
THE SHIP
MO LLY .
Burthen 4JCO barrels of Flour,
.Gj^Philadelphia Ouilt, well found
51-»dti_i^3S3 an j fitted, and may be ready
to receive a in 1 few dave —(he is pierced
18 gun*, and mounts n new pouajtrs, with
lmali arms iu proportion.
THE SHIP
DIANA,
"ofiv< Burthen a.ioobarrds of Flour,
r hiladelphia built of live oak
and cedar, •» pierced for four
teen guns, tnd mounts ten new four ponirders,
with fruall arms in proportion,
a-vv THE BRIG
AMAZON,
Burthen 1,300 barrels of Flour,
' New-England built, has lately
been completely fitted, and may be ready for sea
in 4 few days.
For terms apply to
NICKLIA GRIFFITH.
Who have for Sale
. on boardfundty vejfels at Marcus-Hook,
11,000 bushels of Liverpool fine fait
1,100 bushels of coals
386 crates of queens ware afforte'd
7 tierces of bottled porter
10 barrels of coleothard paint
4 do. of purple brown do.
a quantity of yellow ocre in casks
6 barrels powdered Venetian red paint
6 barrels mineral black do.
ij barrels Spanifn brown do.
35 boxes of pipes
j HAVANA SUGARS ;
3,5001b>. prime cochineal
3 barrels New Otleans indigo
4 puncheons Jamaica spirits
ao bales of fail «nvaf»
379 sheets of copper, affurted from 48 by 24
to 60 by 48 inches
Two tubs raised still bottoms assorted
36 fix pound guss 44 feet, 8 jewt each
14 do. a feet, kwt and 4ft* each
50 barrels of gun powder
6 cases Manchefler cotton checks
3 trunks mullins and shawls
14 cases im:flinets, dimities and g'rtighams
a 8 chests coloured nankeews, muflinets, &c.
1 i trunks printed calicoes
6 bales of whit* and coloured caffimeres
1 bale of course woollens
English nails assorted.
Prober 17. fri.&fat. tf.
HUDSON fef YORKE,
NO. 54, NORTH FRONT STREET,
H.WE JUST RECEIVED,
Per the lalt arrivals from Europe,
A VERY COMTLETE ASSORTMENT Of
DRY GOODS,
Which they will dispose of on reafonablc terms,
AMONGST WHICH ARE
Superfine and coarse cloths, coatings,
Ela flic and fancy do.
Caffimeres, plains, duffils \
ftofe and ftripg blankets well assorted in small
bales
Furniture chintzes, cottons and dimcties
Callimancoes, camblets, durams, moreens, and
joans
Mitflins of all kinds
Velvets, velverets, thickfetts and fancy cords
An elegant alTortment of ribbons
R ed, white and yellow flannels
Red and green hocking and welfli baizes
An invoice cutlery and hardware
Cottonades, shawls, printed handkerchiefs
7*B 4-4 11-8 checks
9-8 & 5-4 cotton Uripen
Cotton, worded and silk hosiery
do do Gloves
Threads, bindings, tapes, See. See.
nov.9. dißt
Ten Dollars Reward.
STOP THE RUN AW AT.
ON Monday the 3d inftart, ran away frcm
the fubferiber, at Woodbury, in the coun
ty of Glocefter and slate of New-Jersey, a
NEGRO BOY, named PETER, about 17
years old, about 5 feet 5 inches high ; had on
when he went away a light broad cloth coat,
and an old pair of linen trowfers. He was for
merly a flaveto George Hazard of Sussex COt:n- I
ty in the slate of Delaware, and was in July
1 79^V by him bound to Wm. Clark, o; Phila
delphia, for 14 years, he afterwards was own
ed by Peter Grahl and George Dechamps, in
la rj. e y ear > anf * ' n '79 8 , he became the pro
per of Stephen Sayre of Bordenton.
Any person returning the said Negro to his
mailer, or fccuring hira so that he may be had,
•hall have the above reward, and all reafonablc
charges paid by
JAMES B. CALDWELL.
Woodborry, 6th Dec. 1798.
. B - Tbe fa>d boy h:s also the mark of a
ring on one of his forefingers. He was fern in
1 - ''•e.CiS v. t hi;ade!phia iBl "3 nurfilav morn
«|eo4t
John Miller, junr.
Has returned to the City,
AND IS R £ M.OVI N' C PltOM SO. 8, CHESNIjT,
To the Five Story Building, in Deck 1
r.car Third-flrcct.
Where he has for Sale
250 Bales of Bengal Goods;
CONSISTING at
Csffaes
liaftas
Matnoodies
Humhums
Calicoes
Handkerchiefs, £s'c. €ffc. I
The remains of a Stock of
DRY GOODS, i
ConJJling of Woolens only,
AMONGST THEM ARE,
Ci..ths
Coatings
Blankets
Kendal Cottons
Hats, &c. '
ALSO, ''
100 Flhds. of Old Rum,
Of a fine flavor, 3d & 4th proof,
nov 10 J
REMOVAL.
George 'Dobson,
I NFOR .MS his friends and thel'uh«ic ii: general
that he has removed frotn No. 25, South I'l.ird
Street, to No 91 ,S<iuth fide of Market-£roi!t, near "
the corner «! 'i'hird Street, and is how opining 1
a very extensive affort«n«r.t 1 f
DRY GOODS,
SUITABLE FOR THE PRESENT SEASON,
WHICH tf6 HAS JUST RF.©LIVED, 2
Per the (hips William Penn. Amianle, and Jane,
from London, uiid per Cf.efapeak and Thomas j
irom Liverpool, and will hi fold low for ca(h,
or approved notes at a (hort date, viz, 4
London 7-4 Superfine Cloths and
Cafrimcres, falhionablc crfiours
Yorkftiirc 7 4 do. and do.
Mixed and plain coatings
Welch flannels
Kerfcy beav.r, for Spencers '
Jcannetj aadTahby cords
Velvet* aed velvetteens
Velverets and tbickfett*
7, 8, 4 4 and 11 8 cotton and linsn checks -
7 8 and 4 4 bed tics
6-4 and 7-4 bed bunts I
London chintz a>nd cUiikz furnitures
Furniture cottons
Do. dimities
Purple and chintz fliawb
Silk do. j
Camels hair do.
Silk, cotton, and worded hole (
India and British muslins of every deferiptioo
Black and white crape ]
Tiffany and paper fans 1
Hats assorted infmail cases <
Umbrellas ,
Peelings and fattinc
Laccs and edgings
Ribbands
Silk Modes
Si.perfine French cambrick
Cambrick muslins
Do. threads
Pulicatand Madras Handkerchiefs,
And an elegant ajfortment of
■ Bruflels and Wilton Carpeting.
November 17 §
For sale by the fubferibers,
A Few BALES OP
WOOLENS,
Containing Cloths & Blankets,
150 bales llengal muilius
ao d-j. Madras handkerchiefs, elegant pat
terns
to a pieces Rpflia sheeting
to boxes umbrellas
a quantity of cassia
30 tens Pcterfbuag clean hemp
ij pipes, 3 years old, fined particular Ma
dtira wine
a quantity of (hcathing copper
Mordecai Lewis,
nov. 26 daw
Imported
IN THE LAST ARRIVALS,
Superfine, fine and common cloths
Swandowns
Baizes
Velvet ts
Velveretts
Printod calicoes
Furniture & fancy dimities
Hair ribbands
Sewing silk
Brussels and Pcrfia caipetts
Buttons
For sale, for cajh or credit, by
SAMUEL MtRRICK.
no. 543 Arch flrcet.
Nov. 16 §<Jam
LANDING,
prom on boar 3 the Brig Amiable Matilda,
Richard Stites, Master, from Gape
Nicbola Mole.
VI Balm Socks and Flannel Dravwrs ] Cr.
18 Do Gaiters 1 =' fT o
1 Do. Rugs . o=, =*
I Do. Hjvre Sacks ' S S'"
1 Do. Flannel Trowfers I 3 "
1 4 Do. Tents, Jx " c
Also just Imported,
In the Ship Chcfapeake, Captain Webb, f»®m J
> Liverpool,
147 Crates of Qneen's Ware,
Assorted particularly to suit the Weft-India
Market—For Sale by
Thomas {s* John Ketland.
November 7 §
Now Landing,
From on board the ship JoJin Bulkeley, and
for sale at the stores of Jeffe & Robert
Wain, I
350,0 c o weight of Java Coffee, j
1 of the firit quality in bags.
150,000 weight of Java Sugar,
# in canniftere,
nov. A3a 3 - dt f
Bond Sz Brooks,
Corher or Market ami Sixth streets,
HAVE Rt.dkIVED,
by the late atrivals from LondoN, Liver
pool and Hull,
A LARCE AMI GCNKRAL ASSORMtN'T OF
DRY GOODS,
Which they ire now opening for sale, at the mofl
reduced prises, for calh or the usual credir.
A capital Stand for Business
TO LET,
That and commodious HOUSE, no. 39,
south Front fireet, dire&ly oppolr.e the Poft-Officc,
together with the flore and cellar, on the Wattr
ftreet fide. Enquire as above.
nov 17 §
Old Madeira Wine.
27 pipes of old London pitrticniar
MADEIRA WINE, i
n strong iron bound Hamb r o' casks, for
ale by ROBERT ANDREWS. 1
Nov. 30. eodtf i
JAMAICA RUM, ~ |
A Cargo now linding ctt SouthJhett wharf, !
FOR SAU BY
PETER BLIGHT,
Apply at Stores on the Wharf,
WHO ALSO OFFiRS FOR SALE,
BRANDY, ill and 4th pro.»l
' Madeira and Port Y. INErf, &c. 4cc.
Nev. 1. dtf
; Ji'Jl imported in flips William Penn, A
miable and Jean,from Louden,
A qa.mtity of Cannon,fizos 4,6 & 9 lb. 7 with balls
1 Ca'ronatles, u liia. j suitable.
Mufquets, Mufquetoans, Cutiafles andT &
1 Pi'.tols, for (hips use, I
Rifled barreled Ocas, Fowling Pieces, 1 § S
■ and Horfcmatj's Hiflols, I"^^
4DC,000 Flints, c..icfly for muskets, in j pr
kegs. _ J w
Regulation Light Dragoon Sabres, with Iron Scab
iards,in calcsof 50 *ach,
Light Cavalry SworSs in Cases
Fabres, Swords andCutbffi's, with plated mounting
Ironmongery and Cutlery in casks, a general af
forinunt—For Sale by
Thetiias is* Jno. Ketland,
Philad. Oftober 25.
Just Arrived,
In the Brig Eliza, from the Mediterranean, and
now landing at Walnut Street wharf,
Fourth proof Brandy in Pipes.
Brimftcne.
Anaffortment of valuable DRUGS,
CONSISTING OF
Opism, Aloes, Cantharides, Camphire, Senna,
1 Cremor Tartar, &c. &c.
E (fences of Lemon rnd Bergamat
Writing paper
Sweet oil in bottles and flafks
Olives, anchovies and capers
Juniper berries
A L S o.—ltalian luteflrings
Satins
Crapes
Umbrellas
Remaining on Hand,
St. Croix Sugars,
Claret in cases
Old Madsira Wine of the firft quality.
JAMES YARD.
November 3 §
Genteel Boarding & Lodging,
IN A healthy situation.
Mrs. M'CREA informs har friends and the
Pub ic, that (he is prepared to accommu- I
date ftveral Gcn'lemea, wi h genteel Guarding '
and Lodging, at No. 1 7, Fiiliert ftrcet.
Nov. 28 Stf
Evening School.
S. L £ IVIS,
INFORMS the Puhlic that his EVENING
SCHOOL tor Young Gentlemen will open
for the \\ inter, on Monday, December 10, at
No. ac.T Arch-flrect, near Sixth.Street.
dec 7 d 3 t
. W ~4~N'T E'D.
• Convenient Lodgings, for an elderly
Lady, in a refpedlable private family, where
there are no children. Enquire at this office.
5 rJSLJ " dm
NOTICE. f -~ "
ALL persons indebted to the cftate of Jamis
Thompson, of the Indian Queen, lourth
flreit daceafed. are desired to make payment to
the fuhferibers—and those who have any demands
against the said eftatc, arc requested to fend in their
accounts duly attcfled for futtlement, to
MARGARET THOMPSON,") AdminiflratrU.
JOHN THOMPSON, J Adminifirator.
"ov- »3 dim
James tsf William Miller,
A'o. 53, North Third Street,
Near Arch fireet, h?ve the following articles for
sale upon moderate terms for calh, or the
usual credit.
, Scarlet Cloths,
Low and middling quality, Mulberry and Green
ditto, White, Red, and Yellow Irifli Flannels,
; Blue, Green, and Mulberry half thicks. India ca
licoes, Gurrahs, Mamoipdies, Guzzines, and other
" muslins, fancy ar.d plain cotton hose, velvets, thick '
fctts and fancy cords, sewing liik and twill of all
colours, ferreting, hair ribbon, coloured threads,
India flag bandanoes, and other black and colour
ed silk handkerchiefs, a variety of other coMon
do. Soutc romals, red Gilla handkerchiefs, mo
a leens, foan fpicning. fuflians, bcavrs, jeans, fa
tinetts aud royal ribbs, also muflinets and dimities,
ginghams, ladies' kid and coloured gloves; &c.
Nov. ai diot
1
John Dobbin,
BOOT & SHOEMAKER.
RESPECTFULLY informs bis Friends and
the Public in general that he carries oA his
business at No 99* South becond-ftreet, nearly op
-1 polite the Merchants Coffee iioufe wh«re gen
t tlemen maybe fupplicd in the iKatefl and bed
manner—lie assures ;hofe who may please toA
vor him with their commands that 110 attention
, 1 or exertion on his fide (hall be wanting to render
I him worthy of their encouragcnu-r.t.
N. B. Orders receive.! wii: !>e puntfluilty at
tended to.
November j j
NOTICE.
ALL Persons indebted to th« Estate of doc
tor Hugh Hodge, decealed, are rtquelled
to make immediate payment —and thole having
demand* against the Estate are detircd to authen
ticate and present them to.
MARIA HODGE, adminijlratrix.
SAMUEL HODGDEN, odmimjtralor.
IIOV 20 p
To be Sola at Audtion,
TO THE HICHTST CIDDJ^r,
On THURSDAY, the 1 stb December next.
At the BuiicJi of Grape* Tavern, ui BOSTON,
precisely at I o'clock, P. M.
Two Notes of Hand,
Signed bf Kelly and C ttrk, and iniorfed by
Martir. Ki»fky, Thomas Barber and Janjes Green
leaf, dated December 18, 179J, and payable the
id day of January, 1 799, viz.
One Note forthree thousand fix hundred dollars,
and <ne Not; for four thousand eight hundred
dollars.
Ui llor, november 14 (i»)
! " FOR. SALE,
i By FrsHBOURN Wharton,
at No- 128 South Fcurth-Jlreet.
China Ware,
Nankeens
1 eas
Boglipores
Lutestrings, £s*
Silk Shawls.
nov J?. rH' r
Notice is hereby Given,
T'HAT application will b; mad« aj ths Trea.
fury of the liuUed Stages, for the renewal < f
the folio.ving certificates of Funded Debt, ilaud
ing in the rau.e of Robert Whitworth, of Che'fea,
Lonloh, thefaid Certificates having been forward
ed by the (hip EHiee, Hatvey, from London for
New-York, captured by the French, and fuvpofed
to he lo! 1 .
No-11437, 6 Per Cent. Stock, date '
Ycrk, 18th April, 1196, f»r Dollars. 1481,47.
No. 8171, 3 Per Cent, dated New-York,
18th April 1796, for doHars 40a.
SAMUEL MILEANK.
November 18 d6w
Notice is hereby • 'iven,
That application wilt be made at the
Bank of the United Mates for the renewal ol
the following certificates of Bank dock, Handing
in the name of Hoigfon Aikinlcn of London,
which were loft from on board the Swallow Pac
ket, capt. Kidd, captured by the French,, and all
persons concerted arcdeGredto take notice.
No. 24241 issued in lieu of No. 1891,
1892, 5662 and 16640, for 4 (hares.
No. 3020, issued in lieu of 11055, ar.J
11057, for. 3 (hares.— 7 (hares.
THOMAS M-EUEN fcfCo.
Nov. j3 d_jm
NOTICE"
ALL persons iudebtcd to the estate of JOHN
SPURRIER i late of this ci'y deccai'ed ar»
rcquefted to make immediate payment, and those
who have any demands against said estate are de
sired to render their accounts properly attcfied to
the fnbfcriber for fctt!ement
ELEANOR SPURRIER,
Adrr.iniftratrix.
"""I *8 f3^
N O T I C E,
ALL Persons having claim? upon the Estate
of James Thorburn, Stpnecuiter, deceas
ed, are d.-fired tn present them for payment—
and those indebted to pay their refpc-ilive bal
lances to
Benjamin W. Morns, adminiflrator.
nov i 4 jawjw
JAMES & RICHARD SMI PH~
HAVE this day returned from the country to
their SI ORE, No. 54, South Fiont flreet,
where they heve for sale, as uiual, a large and ge
neial assortment of European and East-india
DRY GOODS,
most of which have now arrived and are landing,
; from the different vefTeh, from Hamburgh, Lon
don, Liverpool and Hull.
l'heir Cuilomers by applying wil'. find almost
every article generally imported, and at as law
prices for calh or credit, as they can be had else
where.
N. B. A few Cases of Nurenbcrgh TOYS, a
consignment, to be fold by the cafe only.
Philadelphia, Nov. 1, 1798. dtf
JViillenery Room,
1 A®. 136, Market Street.
TKR.F.E or four young women who are well ac
quainted with the Millenery bu,Cnef<, and
can bring good recommendations may be employ
ed • y applying as above to
D. GH.IYSTAL.
Nov. »6
Englilli wrought Nails.
Imported in the Molly and D ana, from
LIVFI POOL.
400 Casks of Nails,
CONSISTING of 6d, Bd, lod, ji4, and
aod, flat points suitable for the southern
, market—Cd, Bd, lod, lad, and aod, fine drawn
(harps—-iffo t, 3, 4, and 6 clouts —fprigj—
tucks—ftupper nails—fht-athing nails, &e.
FOR SSL I %Y,
Robert Denifon, junr.
127 Market-street.
For Sale, at the St ores of the Su'o
fcribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
195 calks of nails afTortcd
so bales e( fail canvass, from No. I to 8
53 calks yellow ochre
«j tierces bottled porter, 6to 14 doz each
London particular ) . '
India market j Madeira VV intf
TencrifTe do. in pip
Old Port do. in hhds.
Empty Claret brttles
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, M'jfiineN Jit,
affortea for the Weft-India market
4» 10, and 9 inch
Writing fiates, itjt fWJs aad prelles
ao purcheoES Jamaica rum
t bale Teaming twine
x6o bundles (heat .u paper
NicHin (s* Griffith.
a F r:i * tuihACUMiss Broadhurst
RES PEC r FULLY in|pfmsher friends aad the j
public *fcat flic intends having
A CONCERT,
Oil Tuesday next, at O'Eiler's Hotel. I
part ift.
Overture,
Song,—Ellen arise; Miss Broadhcr> '
Qu.nctta,
S °»K> Mr. Darley
Duett, Violin & Claronet, Messrs. Collet and i
Dubois
Italion Sorg,—Si non piange, Mlfe Broadhurll |
Glee, three voices—Lullaby.
i>ART id.
Overture,
Song,—" The New Somebody," [composed
_ by B. Carr) Miss Broadhurll
Sonata, Piano Forte, Mr. B. Carr
S°ng, Mr. Darles
Concerto, Clarinitt, Mr. Dubuis
New Song,(the Flow** GirlJMifs Broadhurft
Glee, three voices no more Ladies.
To begin at '."even o'clock.
Tickets one Do'lareach to he had it Carr's Mn
fical Repository, Market-ftreet—O'EUcr's Hotel,
and of Miss Bro idhurft, No. 1 Areh-llreet.
dec 7
N. B.—The. Indian Chiefs ■will at
tend the performance.
Jamaica & Poit-au-Prince } Entitled
S.lgai s > to d* ait}
Madeira Wines S back
New-' Rum
Ground Ginger, and
- Tnner's Oil,
FOIt SALE B'f
Wharton Iff Lewis, ,
no. 115 south Froit street. i
* lnT T4 nf jawtf i
Bank of North America.
THE Stockholders are hereby'notified', that an 1
Eleaion for twelve Diredors, for the enfu : w 1
year, will h« lei I at the Bank on Monday, the
I4«h of January next, at fen o'clock.
RICHARD WELLS, Cafh'r.
r " r ' 8 r '"° dtßl "
the partnership of
H A I. LOWE I, L $C R HOA DS
BFf- G this day djfTolvtd by mutual consent.all
pcifons havingde-rtanrfsiigiinll said Firm, ar_ de- 3
i>cd t>< bring in their accounts for fcttUment, and
tvtlewho arc indebted are requefled to niakeim- j
mediate payment to Samuel Rhcads, who is au- I
tharized to receive the fame.
E. HALLOWELL
SAMUEL RHOADS.
dec. f 5
"FOR SALE, ~~—
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS, * -
14 for.r pound Cannon, -iff-rent lengths,
5 Cairo- ades. p
JOHN NIXON & CO.
December 1. § A
> For sale by the Subscribers,
The C argo of the Schooner
Sincerity, from LAGUIHA,
450 feroons of cotton
40 s*do of indigo
s*l of cocoa
2056 hide>
4 handles of gum
60 bay >
38 barrels j COFFEE
I bale of Deer skins
Willing* & Francis.
December IC, I "98 4 t f
Augustus fricke; —
Woollen Draper Men's Mercer
No. 7, south Thirdflreet,
HAS RECEIVED,
per the Jail arrival from Europe, a large aflort*
mtnt cf thefaihtonible Goods in his line,
Ar.d hat conjlantly for sale a general ajfort. 1
mcnt of
First rate London i'uperfine Br«ad
Cloth 9
Ca Hi meres
Veil Patterns of all kinds
And every other article in the gentleman's line
by wholesale and retail,
decemb- r 10
~ For NEli'-TORK, ~ A
.-Ci -<C THE BR,G *
jgPik ANN MARY,
JV CAPT. MURPHT, II
FREIGHT toll be taken on very
moderate terms—apply to
fofeph Anthony (s* Co. ■
<lrC - 13 d 3t 150
To BE SOLD, ,00
A quantity of choice 7imothy £5" Clover 3S 1
r A Y "
Enquire of the Printer. * nr
december 7 l6o
'Just Imported, 3J b
Iron cannon, double fortified, Woolwich proof
with th«ir carriages complete—3, 4, 6 and o* . Bc
pounders. ing c
Carroi;. Jes, Wool wish proof, with carriages, & c ? ir
complete— ta, 18 and 14pounders. ' ' soup
Cannov powder in kegs of ijlbs. each
Uound, double-headed, and caoniUtr (hot
Vatent Swathing copper, bright, afTortcd xB, to 1
■2 2, J4, 16 and 18 or per square foot, fhcct's 48 10'
by 14 inches, fuitaMe for vaflels from 100 to •
tcoa tons
Copper nails, bolts artd spikes T T J
ng Pikes, Jtx
(.'amnion cutlafles reque
GnniKts ftcres of all kinds
Tin-plates No I—x- j cross boxes
l atent Ihot in calks of jcw(. each
Londmi porter and *<ro\rn ftuut.in caflts of 7 doz.
bottled.
Eaithen ware in cates, alTorted
Far Sale by Lately
SIMON WALKER, if
Pine near jth ftrAt. Are to
Oaohtr t 9 . to tf. the lal
FOR SaLE,~ " nov
And immediate poffeflion give,
A CONVENIENT three Story Bnck Houfr * 1
SX Piazza and Kilchen, in a pleasant and airy t ]
part of the City—Enquire of the Printer. decease
'3 . d 6* their at
7 capital ft and for Bu/inefs. fubfcri
TO BE RENTED, Ph ' ,;
AND POSSESSION GIVEN,
On tie %:b day of February. . jJL.
' pHE cotnoipdi«uii Four Story Brick Houfeon are rcq ,
1 the Soivih liu'e 0." Market, near Water- ~,4 tho
iiirrt, at prtfent occupied as a Tavern, liy Tho- c i uc£ t h (
:..is Palmer. For,terms, at the ofoce
i 1 1 Gazette. ™
J Jlwtf Phi la
'• * • - - T
MARSHAL'* sales.
3T i tJxiTFP States, } •
, , ! Pcnntylvania
aa . e T \ p ljr | n auce of a writ to me «llre<sle.l from I
1 A tr.r hon- Hichar l Petri-s, F.fqnirr, Jndge of
j the Dittriil Court of the IJnifed States, in, and
J. fortbr Pennsylvania DiftriiSl, will b e txjmfrd
to Public Sale, at the Morehant's ColTre House,
in the City of Philapelphia, on Saturday the
itr.t 15th day cf Htcembrr instant, at is o'clock st
. noon, tha armed French vefTcl th» Jaloux, with
ft m,I ,1 T ?PP arfl ' ? ,IBS > an( l apurtenanecs, captured
« ana |b v ;he publ.c armed (hip the Unitfd States,
idhuril 1 K-n n -« commander, in the said
■ ■L'iftrnfl Court condemned as torfeired.
WILLIAM NICHOLS Marshal.
Marftial's Office, Dec. 7, 1798.
ofed
lurft „ Uoited States ">
Pennsylvania Diftri&.j
TN Pursuance of a Writ to mc dire&ed from the
X Honorable Richard Peters, efquirc, Judge of the
lurft DiftriA Court of the United States in and far the
Pennsylvania Diftri<s, will bc exposed to public
file at the Merchants' Coffce-Houfe in the City of
's Mtt- Philadslphia, on Saturday th« fifttenth day of
Hotel, Dccembea instant, at 12 o'clock at noon, the arm
ct. ecl French veitel, Le Sanfpareii, with her apparul,
4 t S uns i a nJ appurtenances, captured by thi public
11 at- arm rr ' lp ' the ll "'**" Stat»s. John Barry, efq
Commander ; and in the laid DiftriA Court, con
demnid aj forfeited.
—, WILLIAM NICHOLS, marshal.
it/tied Marlhals Office »
draw D «c«nber 7, j
UNi-rtb States, ")
Pennsylvania Diflria. J Jf'
NO I ICE is ber«by given that in purftancc of a j
writ of Fiera Facias to mc tfirecled, from j
the Hcij. Ric*a»d Peters, Esq. Jadge of the i
DiflriA Court 6f the United States in and for the I
?f>/'r r- nf >' I)i,lrid - W'll be expofetl to public '
sale oil Wednefc'ay tha nth inft. at l» o'clock at '
noen, at the fitorts of Meflrs. Pratt and Kintzing, :
wtf in Water near Race-ftrect, 1
117 Bags of Coffee. 1
Flic fame having been seized and taken in execu- j :
lat an tl0 " a ! , t , h s P ro r er '7 °f Ferdinand GoMrden, and t
,fun- Wd by f
tb J WILLIAM NICHOLS,
* Marlhal. I 1
i*r. Marshals Office, Dec. 7, 1798 I f
Java Coffee, \\
DS 350 Bags of First Qiiality, | j.'
It,all Now landing from on board the Ihip INDIA, I c
- de- at Thos. Penrofc's Wharf, and for sale by f,
; aD:I John Ash mead, b
' ,m I No. IAS, South Front-Street.
' !U " WHO HAS ON HAND,
For Sale, on reasonable terms,
Coflats
* Baftas
Black TafTaties, &c.
- dtc eodtf o(
ths, IMPORTED,
From Hamburgh, Bremen, and London, p,
I. AND fOK SALE »Y THE SOBSCRHERS, I Qy
__ An assortment of German Linens,
cortsisrrvG or
Tickleßbutgs
ler Ofaaburgs
Wefcr linen
Checks and stripes I
Bielefeld linen I 11
Brown filtfias
Silesia lawns
Siamois, &cs See.
150 Boxes of Claret. v
5 Boxes of hollow glass ware V
It caiksof Ruflia bristles
pre
ALSO ON MANDt cit
L 1 Box of Irish Linens. the
I Trunk silk goods coi
gj. I Box of Gingham, 1
And a complete assortment of
English Buttons.
«■(- Erich (5* Lewis 801 l man, tict
No. 100, Spruce street.
rt• november 1 9 <Qlot (
, JuJ Imported, 11 *
iU A quantity of falt-petre, refined
Gun powder F and double fealcd batflc
Cannon, 4 and 6 pounders
London porter and Burton Beer ti
ne Muliard squares, 4 ounces
Bell Durham mustard
_ Ginghams, fubjeA to drawback
All of which will be fold on moderate terms by T*l
HENRY DAVIES, imr. n
No. 93, south Second street, opposite the Met
city taverp. kind
nov ' 9 mw&fft berd
FOR SALE,
By George Plumsted,
No. 166, South Front Street.
_ 150 whole Tierce, i ,
100 half do. 5 ' p
}S Boxes white Havanna Sugars, entitled to Av
drawback t Port,
»,000 pieces Nankeens, do. do. N.
Anchors weighing i 7 cwt. and »6cwt.
_ 160 boxes containing tea setts of China C
3S boxes of blue and white table setts of do.
f „ ALSO,
' Boxes containing breakfaft, coffee and even- TT'
ing cups and saucers ; teapots, cream pots.lu- * L
. gar dirties, pint bowls, cuflard cups, flat and f r ,? BI
loup plates and dishes. ' u "y
Young Hyson Tea and d
Fans
Cassia. /
| 00v - a t«w»w
ALL PERSONS,
ch !™ »g»inl» the Estats or
LOCKr £R, deceased, are
requested to prelent their refpeflive accounts to
Nathan a. smith, i b 'ep»
OR L a '"g
JOHN DORSET, \ £xecul °rs.
A lai
A LEASE OF THE HOUSE
Lately occupmd by Sufnnah Lockyer, together nor
w,tb THE STOCK OF GOODS,
Are to be difpof.d of Time will be given for
the latter on un-excepiionable feeurity. T
,,iwfiw
NOTICE. La
A L ,t p « f " n ' havc dem "">> agaiod
!K e ea , ite ° f latcWitLMM Clifton V a
deceased, and who hav« not.ilrcady produced their t,on ht
their accounts, are requeftod to fend them to the ;n thi '
subscriber at no .71, north Second street almost
pk:i t 1 . ELIZABETfi TUCKER, Adm'x of
Philadelphia, .0v.19, ~9 ? m&th 4 w sale of
AH Persons have'k
InJWted to the Estate of HENRY HI LI, deceafpd from h
a,7d r Zr e t d - t0 to the «" 1
at«l those having any demand, on the fame to pro' P articu
ducc their account, for f.,element. P and to
GIDEON H. WELLS, him wi
Canal Lottery, No. IT. f
JVill rc+cmimence drriiCiiig io the coitrfe of
ihe pnfart month.
Rom | li„KT*.TS to be hid Dollars each,at
odgeof 1 WILLIAM BLACKBUKN's hosiery
in, and and Brokers office, No. 64 Srtuth Second-flreet, 1
txpofed where ,•heck books are kept for refiftering r.nd .
? "'"'•nation of Tickets in 'he above, City of 1
..ay the YVaftnngton and Patterfon Lntreiies, &c.
1 =t iTATI OF XH£ Whul, }
x, with
aptursd Five 4 , 00e 20 , 000 i
TATES, J WO ,
. r . , 2,~00 4,000 V
he laid Iwo , „ _
.p 1,000 1,000 ;t
.<l,l V . ' J OO J .CO" t
200 5,400 *■
W in) a full proportion of the one hundred
and ot the fifty dollar prizes—The Lottery is
more than two thirds drawn an t above 15,"C0
dollars richer than at the commem ement.
Rom the £j» Note, the hufinefs of a Broker dulv at
geofthe tended to in at) »ts branches. tii.fr.
far the nov. 9- di
treasury DEPAKimiynl, J
day of June 2j. T702
he arm- XJOTICE IS HERESY GIVEN, That by vir. g
ippar«l, cue of »n aa, passed during th: profentfef.
: public r ' on ™ Congref3, so much of the a a entituled hl
ry.efq "An Ail making further pmviOon for the sup- br
'• «»- .. P°V f P""' c . cr . e t"' for the redemption re
'of the public debt"—passed the third day „f , r „
rlhal. March, one thousand seven hundred and ninety
five, aj bars from settlement or allowance
Certificates, commonly called Loan Office and' t0
sinai fetrlenwnt Certificate,, and Indents of I n . It
ferefli, is suspended until the twelfth day o tb
June, which will be in the year one thousand seven a
ice of a " unt * ref t and nintty nini.
1, from , ,T hat liquidation and settlement of the
of the I Certificates, and Indents of Interest, jit the
for the reafur y. the Creditors will be entitled to receive
public Cer ' lfica t« of funded Three Per Cent. Stctekequal pe
lock at ta 1 amo "nt of the said Indents, and the arrear- trc
ntzing, a £ C9 °f interest due «n tht-ir said Certificates, prior G f
to th« firft day of January one thonfand seven
hundred anil ninety one. ln
That the principal fumsof the said Loan Office 01
execu- and final lettlement Certificates, with the interest of
u, and thereon, flnce the firft day of January, one thou- m 3
sand seven hundred ar.d ninety one, will be dif- tin
, charged after liquidation at the Tnwfury, by the •
thai. payment of interest and reimburf-nacnt of princi
pal, equal to the which would have btfen
payable thereon, if the said Certificates had been
fubfeftibed, pursuant to the AAs making provision I tor
for the debt* of the United States, contra Acd dur- poi
r \v-z the Ute war, and by the payment of other t j ie
i-jja lums, equal to the market value of the remaining J >
le K ' & oc k, whi«h would have heen created by such I
1 °y fubfcriptionsasaforefnivl, which market value will abc
be determined by the Comptroller of theTreafury. I
*t. OLIVER WOLCOTT, at
Secretary of til Trcafur-t. I tint
•, J une * 8 lawtf I !i r n
L O S ~T, "
TN one of the streets between Union and Saf-
dtf , fafra "' ontl,e ?t,) the outside Case I
——. ot a" Englilh Gold Watch, chafed on the back chl |
\ with a shield Any person who may find the | t^ie '
r?nn J^ me » bring it to this office, will receive I
on > Four Dollars reward, and the thanks of the I emp
owner. I
ins, dec. 7. j 1
I ror
JOHN SHIELDS, ' lis e]
. broker, LJ
Embrace, this opportunity to present his thanks 1 for
to his fellow citizens for their past favors | f e lf
and acquaints them that he is returned from I '
Chefnut-HiU, to his former residence, the | " *
rioufe Chefnut between Front I ln »'
and Second-street, I the
"\TTHF.RE he holds himfelf ready to execute I
C ir l commands in everv br'attch of his | Nat<
profeffion, trusting th« from a residence nafe
city ot jj years he has it in his power to render I of V
them *fiential fervire, affiiring them that his | <r, on
conimiffion lhall be as lew as any in Town. I , ,
Lands, Houses, Veflels, Certificates I , 50m
of every description and Bills of Exchange, | dlred
bought md fold, thedocketts carefully exam- I mom
ined and clear titles made upon tha (horteft no- 1 affai'
( tice, by tha public's humble servant, J 'J'l
John Shields. I irmv
OCT Good negotiable Notes difepunted an /,
it a low premium. I "
november 7 , awt f I the 3
C Hats & Hoiiery. J waTs
I Pac'n;
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL, fa — v
AT HIS STORE, ' I obligt
No. 134, Market Street, I nlfo f
TT AS JI'ST OPENED, in additiqn to his for- I prcfdr
T: ftoc ' c > a Ter y extensive aflortment of I force
he Men s, Women's, and ChiKtren's Hats, and all L nr l v
kinds ef Stockings—particularly a quantity of A- l i.
l berdeen knit Hose, suitable for the pfefent season I he wc
~ ■ " OY » a 3 eoxm j give a
.R. TAYLOR, i<i
MUSIC PROFESSOR, Portu
9®' NORT « iixTH-imtr, Ibutth
n ESPECTFULLY inform, the Public that Howe
to JfV. he continues to teach Ladies the Piano I
Forte as usual.
J^ ov - 6 " tuthsa P o ')'"'
— I Cretan
Charles Campbell,
WATCH-MAKER. Xhe
1- removed to the Shop formerly occupied j n .. ,
a- P" by Mr. John Wood, No. 55, corner of P
id f r ° Ht and . ChefiHit-ftreets ; where he will thank- I e
tully receive and execute orders with neatness I d S ent
and dispatch J mentio
HA » CONST AKf l Y ON HAND, I Zen Bu
A Neat and Large Aflortment of I Letti
Clocks sis Watches. I rnentioi
I failed o
r WANTED, I of the 1
e A JOUR NET MAN ; I returnee
0 ALSO, one or two Apprentices of refoedh- | .'srture
ble parents. r c i ve d c
.
FOR SALE, I thence ]
A large quantity of Watch Glafles -"gate
Whilefate and Retail. I 'o this
t . noy 3awtf I 'round
George Davis's ~
LA W— BOOK STORE, j cona ol
No. 319 Hich Street, I 'ion is
Latest London & Irish Editions. I " ne ) ha
EOKGE DAVIS's Fall importation is now j '' ne
VT arranged of which a more capital collec- I " uns i *
lionl he Relieves was never offered for file either I ner voy
;n this C.ty, London or Dwblin. It combines jOn boi
almofttvery book in,with several valuablebookb I this nev
out of print. Davis s confining himfelf to the p *
sale of Law-Boeks only, it will appear vT
to profeffianal Gentlemen; the advantages they lefte '
have both m feleflion and price by purchafinir olmcil
from him. r 0 I pre s ent s
His Catalogues being ready, gentlemen will 1 ifting. a
particularly oblige h,m by calling for them- \ for rein
and to thole refidmg at a diltaace, by fovoring 1 was TC C r
him with their address (poB-paidJ they lhall !,e fio^
*>*' 26 m&thjm * £ *P'" cee
1 ot ; as :
• ~ —■ ■ - __ *
Jlate jforetgn i2ctos.
ach,at XKW-VORK, December 8.
jO.tery A commercial liouir in this city
inf-ml fovored us with an Hamburg
:i?y of ? a Pf r ] ° 1 t'BTniRTKENTH OcTOBKR. It
tlle ' ate ' i European intelligence received 011
the continent. .Our readers world have been
10,000 poffeflion of its contents yefteixlay niorn
-20,000 ing, had not ami flake occurred which pre
-4,c00 vented its reaching us sooner than yesterday
i.OOO afternoon. The following articles arc tranlla-
J,co ted from it
J. 400
Ulldrrd for thf. mercantile advertiser.
tery is
15,-CO VIENNA, Ortober 3.
u l v at ' llL ' "I nrkilh ambnflador has received dif
u.i'r. Pf tl hes 1 rom Clonftantinople, by an extraor-I'
dinarj- courier, which mention that the ' f
—— 1 reaty of Alliance is ligncdnetween England,
' A > Rulua ami the Porte. Immediately the re- I
v ; r . p'' rt v ' as fprcud that the present liu'iation of c
:nt ftf- Huona parte would induce hini to capitulate ; g
tituled j l '! 1 lta pptsrs that all thele reports were fa- 11
le su p . bncated. The courier brought no account P
nption relative to Buonaparte ; but merely difpatchcs p
imety. rt * ' UVe , to the treatv "f friendlhip and alii
vance, ant '' ' c h tlle fubiime Porte was disposed ta
ceand 0 form between Rulfia and other powers.
of In- tis certain that Buompartt, a few days after fr-
Ifcven eLr"'' /". 1 ' 1,1 t ' he Di '
ry, and lnlormt-d it of the date of his
of the W ' ' lai ' luffered very much from
?t the " le te and bad water. He requests the be
•eceive to lend him, with the greatest cx
cequa! pedition, a reinforcement of a lar -e body cf at
seven • , n )n . et ' 10 admiral Brueys r
in such a ntuation that he may have no rea f«:
oai son, oforthe Englin. fleet. The contents
uereft of the adpatches of Buonaparte, ha ' be „
thou- made kn.wn at Conftantinopli otHcn h in
been Yesterday the Englifli ambaflador, firMor 811
!'«» r° n .,""' "j'eived difpatchcs from his court
vision tor Constantinople, They contain, it is f u „. col
t; P°f e J 3 cou "ter plan of the alliance between fl«
TniZ th Vu L the court of L " ndon - n
■ such I , I're rich garrison at Corfu consists of the
: will I about 4,000 men. t ] l£
A part of the Ruffian troops, which are &=
r, at pre lent on the march, are laid to be del
fy. tined for Italy. On the 3d of October, the
I hr(l column of the Rulfian troops is expected
lat Cairo * The Oreek inhabitants of the a >
Saf- I ,f, a taken the oath of allsghmce t > sot
!ase t ! ie i J ,lrkl(h emperor, and have pledged the >nc
jaok I tf'ildren ot the firft rank for the fulfilment of det
the J their obligations. ly
eive I There will yet be raised in the Turkilh Ne
the I empire, 100,000 men. Ac;
The Aigrette, which the Turkish empe- me
I ror has made aprefent of to admiral Nelson, J°i
I is eltimated at 30,000 piastres. Th
I A letter from Constantinople advises that 6,0
I the porte is making every possible preparation
I r°,r W ,* r ' The Dutch arn bair a dor exerts him
n I. ' ">* evei 7 poflible means, to counters ft
I it. Agreeable to private letters from Sem- eti 1
I lin, dated 25th September, it is aflerted, that can
j the greatest part of the Turkilh army has ver
ute I departed from Widdin, and the Pacha of the
his' Natolien is destined with 30,000 men to op- Oth
u" :, ? ?af F aWan °6 lou ' At present the city retr
his lit without intermif- F ll '
I 11' a Palawan Oglou replies to this' that
ites j ombar . dm ent with the mod terrible and well "P I
ge, I d,recte( i cannonade : so that to the present '' ne
m . moment nothing material has been effect ted f°or
no- j against him. /
Thirty different attacks by the Turki/h witl
', I lr m>' he has tpoft fortunately counteracted, fleet
I and we are at present waiting the result of der
. It. e 3 ift. After the last battle with the go- Frei
_ vernor of Romelia, where on both fides up- whit
wars of 1,400 Turks have fallen, the said with
j tacna has been cempelled to retreat to Naf
> TT W !' era ' b y the loss of head, he will be
obhged to account for those loft battles—as O
alfc.for immense unnecessary expence. At agai,
>r I present he has proceeded to Sophia, to rein- poin
0 force h!S army with 30,000 mountaineers ; knov
•V- k u as Wrote to thc Grand Sultan that leave
n he would appear himfelf at Constantinople to the c
j give an account of his conduit. it hi<
~1, n Ry . '"t?" iron-.Paris of the 4 th October man.
Ip' 11 IS - fald ' >' e^ rda y the Neapolitan and
Portuguese ambassadors had left that city,
but this is hitherto without any foundation. Ac
t However, it would Item that the Portuguese (hips
J minister wilL not remain here long, as his of ci
powers are not fatisfaflory enough ; his fe- montl
I cretary is an Englifhrnan. ceivec
rAßis."oa.b„ < .
J I -er ■ n? " „ oluntaire and the Infur- obli'gt
■ cMtt failed from Port L'Orient to their res- j conta
General D «f° l irneau X : qu ara!
. I (agent forGuadalotipe) is on board the firft
j mentioned, and on board the second is citi-
I zen Burner for Cayenne.
Letters from Brest of the 26th September ? n
'nent.on, that as yet of the fquadr.n that f red °
buled out of this port, consisting of one /hip a . n
of the l.ru- and three frigates, have yet He
1 returned, and that since the day of their de- CUmft;
I parture, no news or accounts have been re- ' ome r
J ceived concerning them. " with i
Our Toulon squadron that failed from roes
thence lately of 3 line of battle flaps and t d ', ate! >
frigate with some transports, has returned f d ofle
to this port ; it was reported (bat without I y ' ln :
ground) that they were to take possess.on of ! '?" s n
I Leghorn. the ne:
One of our papers contain letters from An- fled ' a
I cona of the 18th September, wherein men- t,ons 0
t.on is made, that the Genertux Ihip of the hlm ' h
ine, had arrived at Corfu, with the En,-- I their ]
lifh line of battle fl.ips • the Stenton, of 74 ''P rehen
I .uns, which the Genereux fell in with on Was
| ner voyage in a very Mattered condition. 1 , h i;
1 Jn board the (loop of war which brought above 1
this news to Ancona came passenger citizen P rcbab
I Commeyras. w deterni
Yesterday Bergafle Laziroull said in the their 1
Council of Five Hundred that there was at Gre;
J crelcnt a deficiency of 300 million? now e*- a PP reb<
| '"ing. and that means must be resorted to * _= ~
I for reinstating that sum ; upon which it
vvas resolved to unite thc old finance commit'- A MI
I lion, with the n4*v commission of indirect ol
and to make a report to them
I of ; as also of tn? means for ' Dec.
• and eftablifli an equal balanr*
tos. ceipts and the expenditures. etween t '' t - r(s *
Ihe and affdFments for the ,th v«
e . at210 millions, and the nla^L
his city
araburg cilof * t0 the Coun
"• , & recommend
aved on butions for the -7th n f CelTar y contri.
ve been at 600 1Tlil ) ion ' s< 7 ' >' ear ' w . hlch are valued
£' K " d rf «»-
inhabitant! of that pfcj. , " K ' pS " d *¥
... . September 28.
SER ' JSI .'"habitants of o„ r republic, capa-
I )ea arms, have been enrolled, in
, ... rbc rea diness to march, if necessary.
Ed d.f- They write from Naples that Admiral Nek
ctraor- lon was expefted there with a part of his
it the fleet on the 18th inft.
gland, i here has palled through our city, 3
he re- i- rench officer from Malta, who it is (aid j,
ion of chafed with dispatches to the direftorv of
ulate ; great importance from Buonaparte, relative
re fa- to his deplorable situation in Egypt. Others
count pretend that he only carries a:i account of the
itches pre lent situation of Malta,
i all-. Ihe French have disarmed all the inhabi
ted tants of the Roman republic ou the borders
wers. of Naples. The conf'al Angtlucci, who it
after ---"s here, has resigned his ph-tc.
• Di- __
if his ITALY, September 28.
from By the last enrollment, 40,000 men have
Is the t«en enhfted in the territory of Naples. '
ft ex- A very mortal disorder', it is laid, rap-es
ly c f at Cairo.
if.on Th '-' Ligurian republic*induced ly the
-ueys French, is greatly increasing its military
1 rca- ' orce - They have granted the minister of
tents wa - r >OO,OOO livres.
been We have at present another dna:l refpeiU
iailv, ing the defeat of the 1/rench in Egypt.' .
•eign Agreeable thereto, the lirft of Auguit was
appointed by the French admiral to celebrate
Mor, iiuonaparte'p entry into Cairo. The French
ou' t admiral's fliip was mod fupsrbly drelFed with
sup- colors of every description when the Britilh
ween fleet appeared in fight of the French The '
ntmi tars huzzaed in such a manner as if
° f Z C ? CCrtain of vicl< "y- is reported
hat Admiral Nelson fa id, « To-morrow I
l are "'all be either a lard or an anvcl."
del- __ *
' T ENICE, September 30.
*ted In our neighborhood every thing assumes
t « ar ih.c appearance. In the magazines and
6 l' in UI S tr T the >; are day and night
the inceflantly. Here is the deposit of gi», pow
«of der and artillery f Cr the imperial army in Ita
ly s Our garrif<>n consists of , 4) ooo men.
kifh Near V erona the imperial troops have formed
a camp of 30,000 men ; another of 18,000
ape. men is formed near Padua. The Archduke
son, Joseph is daily expected to review the troops.
I he French garrii'on at Mantua consists of
that 6,000 men.
tion
im- NAPLES, September 11.
raft T hey fay the Viceroy of Sicily has advijt
em- et ' °ur court that at the time when they were
hat earn ing off all the lilver utenlils at Malta,
has Very f«rious disturbances hadarif-n, in which
, of the mal-contents gained some advantage—,
op- OLher reports add, that the French, who had
:ity retreated to the fort of Elgo, had been com-
F"ed to bombard the city of Valetta ; and
;hi s ' that the mal-contents of'that city had kept
re ll up so heavy a fire on the French Ihip of the
ent hne which had fled from Alexandria, that llie
ted loon after funk.
As things arc fituatcd, in cafe of a tvar
:ifh with France, after the fate of the Toulon
ed, fleet, the island of Sicily need not be un
'l" ™* a PP rc ' ,e nfion of an attack from the
jo- French. Therefore most of the regiments
ip- which hare been raised will be transported
lid with difpattfh to the kingdom of Naples,
as- __
he LONDON, Odtober 2.
.as On Sunday afternoon Sir Sydney Smith,
A.t again left town for Portsmouth, being ap
n- pointed to a feperate command. As we
5 ; know that an Engli/h officer 11 about to •
at leave this country forConftantioople, to lake
to the command of the Turkift fleet, we think
it higly probable that Sir Sydney is the
er man.
id
>'» Oflober 5.
Admiral Nelson aid the Captains of his
le mips will be^ complimented with the ripbu
is of citizanfhip of this metropolis. .*0 '
months and more had elapsed before we re
ceived the tows of Nelfnn's viftory.
All ships or vessels coming into British
ports from Philadelphia or Pennsylvania, are
■- obliged, on account of the present prevailing
- J contagious disorder in those part 6, to lgy
x ' quarantine.
ft
(Vir.) N v. 29.
r On Sunday evening last a fire was difcov
t ered on the plantation of Mr. Charles Binns,
, hy a negro man belonging to Mrs Anfley.
I informed Air Edward Rhodes of the cir
. cumftance, who concluded it was made by
. ,ome runaway paves, and approached the fire
with intent to apprehend them. Two ne
) fe' r °es were discovered a deep. They itnme
: d ' atel y leized them, and Mr. Rhodes fecur-
I e one, who is Cafe in goal ; but unfortunate
t y, 111 a fcuiTie, tlie other, stabbed Mrs. Anf
f negro, with a knife, of which he died
t e next morning :—The villain immediately
tied, and notwithstanding the greatest eier
tions of a number of gentlemen to apprehend ■
, | 11m, i,c has cfcaped. "1 hey ran away from
; their mailers near Peterfburgh, for the ap
prehension of whom, it is said, sixty dollars
was offered.
It is reported that several Negroes of tie
abo\e description are lurking in the countn ,
pri bably provided with similar weapons, ana
determined to defend themlcl ves at the risk of
their lives.
Great caution is necefTary in attempting to
apprehend them to prevent Gmilar disasters. -
WANTED,
A middle aged woman,to t»ke cu
»- of children, (He must be well reccmaiende
as temper, hinefly, fohripty and cleanl
- nt<^~ Eaqvirr at bin j'sß >!alutf St.
Ore. 10, jt.3Domemr:#rtielesv
CHARLESTON, November 19.
L A U N C H. '
On Saturday afternoon, at half after 3
o\i sF. m. the United States Brig South-
Cartdtn'., built by Mr. Paul Pritchard, and '
iut-nded f >r the Revenue Cutter of thy> port,
was launched from b's yard. She is a beau- 1
tifu'i vet ß :l, will mount 14. guns atld it is ex
j>ec\ed w'.il be tomtnanded by James Pain?, 1
Esquire. She ii hxty-thret ieet keel, 96
upon deck, and 1 a feet beam, built cf our
own Live Oik, to be coppered, handfom lv
moulled and coiifmi&ed, and judges fay
wifl fail remarkably faft.
Her launch was conduced with /kill and
regularity ; she travelled majestically and 1
with rapidity into her element as soon as Ihe ■
was relcafed from the blocks, without acci
dent.
A great number of gentlemen went up
to view the pleasing f ene, and were highly
gratified.—There would doubtlcfs have been
a very great concourse of fpedators hnsl <
timely notice been given, but from so me ac
cident this vvas omitted, ind it was therefore 1
not so generally known as it fliould have i
been.
One of the G-Hi's hte'y built, comman- 1
by Capt. Hayward, failed up the river
with a party of lemen, and fired a 1 lute 1
a» soon as Ihe ornamented the water, and
were fiicceeded by thc hearty federal huzzas \ '
of Ihe citizens. 1
' i
SMITH'.', MOUNT, (Vir.) Nov. 10. |
MR. GRKKK,
IT is a matter of little consequence to the i j
public, or thc citizens of Weßmnreland ' 4
whether in f.'ft, I was the firft, or the !aft j
jiei lbii, who fi:;ned,the address of that coun- 1
ty to the Prefiuent ; nor jhould I ever have . j
troubled inyfclf with renderiuj a ftatem-nt j ,
of th': tranl'iftion, had it net been extorted
from 111 c by a wanton, and infamous mitre- \
]«ffentation which appeared in a Frederick 1
burg paper, which was re-publi)lied in •
the Times, aboyt the 20U1 of July, in which 1
l.iflpiper it was fir ft presented to my kiiowf- 6
edge. I still remain ignorant of the Author [
of this nioft impudent and wicked attempt to
impcie upon the public, at the expenfe"of
my fellow citizens of Weftmoreland, nor
lhall Icverbeftir myfelf to dilcover him : It !
is enough that near 500 of the'moft refpeft- '
able citizens of that county fiqjned this affee- .
tionate, and patriotic address to their illus
trious and beloved chief magistrate, and that 1
(no matter whether) 11 or 15 iigned the i.
counter-resolutions.
* This is a truth which, I believe will not r
now be contested by the effrontery and duoli- c
City even of jacobinic violence and intrigue. r
To prove to you that the Herald has not 1
been
in the whole courfa of my publications) and
to afford you, and those who may be curs- ! '
ous enough to examine them, a specimen of n
jacobinic veracity I now take the liberty to "
~ tranlmit ut youi papers, upon 1
whichmy defence of the caivfe of my country ti
h3S been condufted; the one is Mr. Porter's
lift given in at Stafford on the 30th June, h
npon which my statement was founded, as n
far as it related to the very unimportant Y
particular of the nuraber of fubferibers on ; c
the lift, bearing my name, which you will
observe precisely to. correspond with my 1
fcregoirg communications : The other is an j
original paper containing fubferibers,
of whom ligned on the 25th June, being j
court day. Now add to these 37, the num
ber admitted by Mr. Parker to have signed
on court day upon the other iill attcJed 'oy
his friend Jultice Tcmpleman, and you will
find the rcfult to be 72 Yet the whole of
this (hameful eontroverfy has been grafted
upon my contradiction of the anonymous
statement of the fiegle fad, that " sot more
than between 40 ai d 50 perfnus could be
prevailed on to (i-»n the address to the pre
lidenton the 25th of June." ! c
The papers which I now forward you ! "
with a requell that they may be dspofited j U .
in your office, I obtained from Col. Willi- |
am Auguftinc Wafhingttfn, with whom the j u
authentic documents relatii gto the address l '
were lodged, for the avowed purpose of be- J
ing rtforted to in cale any attempts might |
be made by the paltry agents in this coun- ] I!
try of the diabolical F ench faftion, to mis- i
reprefenr that honorable, salutary, a- d pa
triotic meaftire. '•
HENRY SMITH TURNER. f.'
_ Ii-
Mr. Green, is
In y ur paper of the 27th inft. I fee a
Memorial from thc county of Caroline, to j ta
the Gei era! AtTembly. This Memorial, it is ; C ' <
Lid, received the fantlion of a numerous :
m<e ing ~.f the people, who diredfed the
chirman to sign it in their belialf. In this
ilatement there is some inaccuracy which
•ought to he corrected.- The fad is", fir, that
tlte meeting was not numerous, and that not
lore th;in half of the people present at the "
Court HoHfe voted upon the qusltion. I f°'
fay net numerous —because this word is to
he tinderllood in its relative s en se, as bearing t&
some proportion to the rell of the County, to
In tlm fenfeic is very inoorreft indeed, for
I de not believe that an) thing like a third
°r even a fourth of the county voted in fa
vor of it.
If the Chairman was ordered to (ign the
Memorial in behalf of the Meeting, he mud ex
have received his orders in private, and
from a few, for I afTure you he rect ived no
such dirt a ions in public, or from the many.
It ts necessary iliat this matter should be 1
ripht!)- und rftood ; the Memorial
aliujf.j to is cxtren-rly rude in style.and con
tains vtry in:warrantable inlinualionr-, not
'"•ly agai ill the government of the United J
.Statas, but ugainft every officer of govern
meut, and again ft evtry man who is attach
•<ll»» the conllituiion and laws of his own tlu
lountry. But the people of Caroline, with
fcoie exceptions, are firmly Federal. Art* raill
, 3nd artitices have been praetifed to deceive >cu
them, to inflame their passions, and to mis £
** leii] (iniKflanci'tijs.. 'l'lir gs, however, are (
rij-Jit ! 4 h formation is iflifftiling over |
the country; t' l c«. yes o; rhc people /reopen |
h'h( fad, aii-1 tli' li who have been chiefly in- j
fir u mental in deluding them, are finking j
fad in the public eftimatirn.
r Let it be known, tir, a Counter-Memori
ith- a' 13 preparing, which will be presented at
r, u d the next Court, for the lignatures of those
ort who, like myfelf. approve of all the measures
•au- of the Federal Government which hear any
ex- fort of relation to th: French Dire&ory, or
in?, to the partizans, agents and spies of the
96 French Directory.
our A Federal Freeholder
, i v of Caroline.
fav
E \STON, (£. S. M.) Dec. 4.
and At the cki'.'e of the Polls in the diftrift,
and on Thurfdav evening last, the votes, as far
1 fl>e as ws I 1 1"*'"-' been able to understand, stood as
ICC ;. follows :
In Talbot for Mr. G. C3O— for Mr. N. 356 (
U p la Oueen Ann's foi'-do. 4.17—f0r do. 641 ;
-h!y In Cirolitie the majority for do. 121. j
)Cfn So that Mr. Nicholfo-i appears to be eleft- .
cd by a majority of 74 votes only. This
. ac . happ.', a;ii vti w;M veuture to aifert, this {till
f are change ii: the fentiinents if th. ,
lave peopk', proves tint the cause of anti-federal- j
ifni, which had mod luiexpect.dly ta :m a (
ian- foot-liyll in the J.flrict, is declin.ng atace, c
ver and forebodes th - ? triumph ai Fe.leralifm at t
|, ttc tlye next trial. Indeed, vc are perfua Jed, j
3Bc j that the people in ivraj, are very faithful
:zas i ly attached to 'their government, and hold
the hoflility and infolen:.' ei" the French in j
utter detelia.tion ; and the v. :me:it thev fee
how fiTfely the friends r.f Mr. G/ildlborough '
have b T *en Kcrtfed rf inIHV-is deltas again,'!
t . the;r- country, and how uiijuftlv they have
al 'j j h.'en treat"J by the champions of oppcfition,
I ?hey will know in whom they to con-
1 j fide, and a,;iinft whom t;i level their well
I grounded resentments. They have the b -fl
j hearts in the world ; but they, have not fuf- .
, j 1 ficiently the means of information.
A FEDERALIST. p
NEW-YORK, December 6.
| ; c , i | A writer in Europe predifts fume good
w , efFefts from the French taking Malta. He
1. remarks that the Algcrines Jiave always al-
tt(j ledged, in excuse of their piracies, that j";
> o j- they could not alter' their piratical way of ;
nor life, whiL- the Maltcfe were cruising against 1
them. As this reason no longer exists, he
is inclined to think they may quit the pro- .
session; especially as the French infill on it. 1
luf- g'o r iou< times for trade, when the
hat Algerines and French quit piracy !
The French pirates, which for a long pe- !
not riod had infellcd the poii of Havanna, be- j
p|j_ came at length so that the govern- ! n
ue. ment Cuba has given orders to expel them p
not therefrom.
ith | December 8.
ln( j There are letters in town to French gen.
ln ". ! tlemen of diltinftion, that induce us to an- C(
0 f nouHce with certainty, the approach of the v
t0 mod violent commotions in France daring v
iafo t | ie coming year—unhappy country ! def- £
tr y 1 tined to eternal convulsions and fufferings— t j
;r > s One revolution takes place after another
ne, i but it is to you only a change of masters, tl
as i not of condition. It is still slavery, that
ant ■ y° u are doomed to—Yet there are Arotri- n
on ! ea ns to be found, who admire and envy p
rill French freedom—ls this ignorance, or the (j
my ; basest hypoc.ify ? n
an j tl
37 J By the POUJII, from Hamburg, ive have been 0
ng | favored papers to the fixteentli of Oc i
m- toher, b rom being dijappointed by the b
led translator. tve are unablejogive any lengthy g
u y extracts this day—ij possible we mill be more \ w
v ;il copious on Mom!dy, 1
of u
J TRANSLATED FOR THE D. ADVERTISER. ' -
, , «.»
)re HAMBURG, Oflober ij. j r<
be i Let r '? rs f rom penna, dated Sept. 29, fays— ! at
re Ihe latest intelligence from Egypt, re- c ]
| ceived by the way of Constantinople, do not ct
, Qu ! mention any new battles having recently t i
:ed | ta ' 4en pl ace . in 'hat quarter—but mention, [ K
Hi- 1 the situation of Buonaparte was ve>y
j le ' unfavorable, and that an army of 60 or 70
ess J thousand men were marching to surround 6l
be- ' bim ' . k
,ht I We are anxious to be informed of the te
in- | re '"' t tlle propositions made by the Ij n
iff- | Fre=ich minister at Raftadt, which were said , ft,
sa- to have actually taken place, intimating, | it:
that peace should be made with all the pow- ra
ers aflually at war with the French Repub- de
li<-, considering that the situation of Europe fe.
is fucb, that the general wilh is that war co
;a lol, 'd be at an end. They positively afcer- m
to 1 taln a ""°> that the Ottoman Ministry are te
is determined, if this happy event should be p'u
us i a & u P on i t0 participate.
lis | NOTICE.
ch
at THE COP ART N CR ? HI P OF
Ot HUDSON Ssf YORKE, in
[, e " thi< day dilFolveri by mutual confjnt. All per- r ' r
x mdebted tp fii'! firm are rcquedod so make B' a
immediate payment—a»d those whh h iv'e any de- VV
re< ro prefe»r them for T-ttkment an
>£ ttWII UAM HUDSON, ~h-« ,« drly authorifad f OJ
y. to arfjutt the lame.
er WII.I.IAM HUDSON, an
r J SAMUEL YORK.E. trw
a . WILLIAM HUDSON, th<
NO. 54, NORTH PSONT STREET,
le ; or ' a '* : 011 the usual terms, a very ' s
extenlive afTortment of a;l
d DRY GOODS. If
10 D,c - '°- ?!]
[' To the Creditors of Nathan tiv
a | Cob b, of the city of Philadelphia, Black- f '
smith.
-t Gentlemen, P" ;a
d I MKE that I I ave applied f0 the Court
1- oC, ? I S° mrnon the rity ai.d tourty of thc
rnilaoclphia, for tli; Uai.-fit of the f veral hws a J> D
1- ma te for the rtrli.f of the mWv.-nt .Lbtcrs, a„d aft
tl that the emir, 1..-, v; appoint d th- 17th hf Drc m r,,,.
|i oer, 111., ant, t ■ hear me arid mjr creditors -c th ■ 11
* Caid court, in the f,id city, at which time and'plac •
you are defirtd to attc id tini
NATHAN C 683. tol<
doc - 6 bit lilt
e e ; | <2>asette.
Jjj j PHILA7) FLP HIA ,
ri- TUE-5P * Y PVENING, DF.CEMRF.R 11.
ife
es of a Setter froiiir. gent! 'nan in Vir
ny ginbt, to l.ls fr'.eud 1:1 Philadelphia,datetl
November 2~ s d, 1798.
" J. Hracken'ridge made a journey last
August, from K n:ucl;v to the Etftern
parts os-Virginia, and brnarht back with
him, penned, the nine rtfolutions,
£t, that are now so much talked of, in the
Weft'm Parts of the Country."
as
When General Washington came into
56 Congress Hall to hear the President's
+ 1 Speech, the members of both houses rose to
him—•in honor never before paid to any but
. the Frefident himfelf.
lis _
V>"eare happy to learn that measures ari
'j ptirfui'ng to bring to justice the hardened
I " villah who charged one of the moil illnttri-
II ous charafters of our city, with the fiorrid
L ' crime of MURDER Indeed it is high
time this infamous Jafptr had refumcd that
'.' iron situation which he fled from,
tl
-1 John Wife, Esquire, a f<dera!i(l, is clio
,m fen Speaker of the Virginia House of Re
; pv.fentatives.
NArAt. Promotiois
George Cross, Esq. of the United States
armed biig General Pincknev, to fuperin
jj tend the building of, and pommand the (hip
of war in Oiarlefton.
Samuel Heyward, Esq. captain of one of
theGalliesi i Chailefton, to tommand the
United States armed brig General Pinck
ney.
COMMUNICATIONS.
Jl" WHEN we reflect on the downfal of tlie
t go>. . of Venice, G.nioa ilndSwitzer
£• land with a vir.r to investigate the caufcs
| which have induced their deftrudtionj we
; (Jiall find, that not so much the strength
of their arms, as to the depth of their polit
. j ical intrigues, can tlie rulers of the French
■ republic attribute their fucrefs in those coun
| tries. It may indeed be laid down as an in
| controvertabk truth, that before the French
! republic have employed the prowess of their
c " I arms for the deftruftion country, they
e " had, by means of their inlidious principles
nearly secured the wiflied-for conquest.
m From hence then it results, that the firft and
' greatest dangers any country can be exposed
To from that nation, is not from their arms,
n " but from their flow and certain intrigues. In
corroboration of this, it may be alked, have
' e we not had our own country brought to the
S verge of mil . and nearly " tottering to its
fall" by thole »ery means ; anil is it not to
~ those intrigues that we alone can attribute the
~ oppolhion which is yet made to the late vir
-3| tuous and pontic arts of our government!
*} by these sentiments, it was with
much concern I heard our truly patriotic
)' Piefident, in his excellent communication to
le Corigrefs, declare, as his opinion, that it re-
I mains with France alone to determine, whe
ther the United States (hill remain at peace,
or Jliall embark herfelf in a war.
c : Are not the injuries and inl'ults which have
f j been heaped upon tts by that nation, fnfflci
y ent to warrant in the opinion of the whole
re ' world an immediate declaration of war ? A
A war which, in my opinion is not Jo much
to be waged tlie People cf France, .as
*" agaitift their principles ; which is not so n-cef
[ f-try to obtain a comp:nlation for injuries ol
) ready done us, as to prevent a ren-wal bf them
" at a future day. Can the Unit<* Sf t:s
j cherilh the expectation that ytly.W France
* continues in her present ijiietftiotu of over-
Y throwing every government in iuirojje, that
» her distance is a fufficient protection for he r
y against ol a limilar natnre ;
0 and that when (he affu-'es her of a wi(h to
j cultivate harmony and mutu.ii interccurfe
between the two nations, that hrr real in
e temions are not again to obtain an inlhience
e | 111 this count.y, and finally, thereby to de
d | (troy our excellent conflitntion, and erect on
I its ruins the detelbd fabrick of republican ty
'■ ranny. No, although apparently (he may
1- dehit from her in Odious attacks, yet (he will
e secretly pursue and ad in the fame line of
r ' conduit ; and it an envoy is admitted into
- I our country, it will much accelerate h.'r in
e j tentions, and almost iniure their final com
e pietion. A Friknd to Government.
" SHEW VICE ITS OWN FEATURES."
1 he Governor, in his trimming speech, has
owned that there is now a perfect unaniniitv
in the people, to " m'aintain the dignity and
. rl o hts our government against the arro
s gance and the tore: of every foreign power."
. We cannot fufficiently admire the candour,
t and communicative wil'doni of him who comes . 1
forward to tell what every one knew, and we
are particularly itiuck with the acutenefs of 1
tne following obiervation : « this state of '
the public jentimept, bids defianc; to every '
danger from external outrage." But there <
. is another cont'dfion more"aftonifhinr ft,ll.
and which we fear we (hall not be able ex- I
attly to comprehend till his Excellency will '
please to explain more particularly iz. *
" the spirit of party, intolerant and vindic- 1
tive, has evidently raged too lon r tor the 1
peace and reputation of our country."' We I t
know not what party spirit would injure the t
peace and reputation of the country, but the f
(pint of unoridled and licentioti, J
the spirit of Jacobinism, the spirit of tSe
apojlate lifhop and his agents, the spirit that
actuated the I.ogan'uin r.mbajfy, tlie spirit that
oppoled every mealurc wli;ch government
took to produce this unanimous public f- n
umsjit 1 ipint L is tviwrd itf.U' as in
tolerant r<: 1 vindictive, as a Mind zeal for
liberty, run mad, and Life piuiofophy cotili
' produce, or unlir.nly artifice asul impotent
malice v.-buld permit ; never neglefiing an
opportunity to " d',(colour the ctii/ritt of pub
lic trailf.icVs®uv M and alio to 41 v.ndennir.:
the ecu a] exercise of the rights of private opi
nions i >'• what can tend more to under
mine this right, than deftroyingtbe Hbertv of
the pre is ? and who has attempted this but
Jacobins ?
If it this party spirit which has raged
too long for the peace .- id reputation of the
country, what atonement can they make In
whom it was iirft generated, by whom it has
be-n cherilhed, '< y whom i t was feduloufiy
maintained as Ion.;- as they dared maintain it,
and who, by the gradual, equivocal and re
luctant manner in which they now let it Aide
from them, Jhow how willing they "would be
(till to prefcrve it ?
MR. FE NX
3 Perhaps some friend to the Secretary, (I
s do not presume to trouble his excellency
j with th* question) may be induced to fur-
nifh an explanation for weaker heads, of
the concluding clause in his last speech—
" If talents (hall be indifcriminntely ftleScd
j and rewarded for their intrin/ie merit alone ;
j and if in short the standard of political par- j
_ ties shall eeofe to he a measure for moral per
j fedtion, then we may long continue to be a
, happy people, &c.
. Miith was T confi'.fcd at the bare propo
fiiion for this indlfcrlminat«feleclion of in'rin-
Jjc merit, having alwayp heard from my
. grand mother, that in order to I mult
, always discriminate, Judge then wf the (late
of my poor brain, when I came to the por
tion that states, that by ceafmg to observe
an important rule in life, we Hull therefore
3 continue to be happy.
Yours, with impatience,
} TIMO : QUID NUNC,
f IVilmington, (Del.) Dec. 8, '9B.
: MR. fENNO,
THIS hopeless fink of Jacobinism has
been honortfl with, a vilit from Logan and
his wife Deborah. I apprehend the latter
accompanied the former merely to save ap
pearances. They put up at the old Jacobin
and piddling geniiw'a. Dickinfon's house, -
in the evening of th.? 28th ult. In the
; morning several of the leading members of
the disorganizing fadtion were seen entering
1 the houf.- ; amorg the group was the noted
Dodlor Tilton and Hamilton Rowan, the
United Irishman and traiior. On this fel
low's meeting Logan, they gave each other
the fraternal hug. That night federal of
the lower order of Jacobins met the envoy at
Dr. Tilton's—lhut the door—and what fol
lows time mud develope :—one ,thing is
pretty evident ; those United Dagger men
are plotting, and it requires no great sagaci
ty to predidl, that if government does not
pay some attention to Mr. Logan, fool as
he may be, he will raise a dust—l mean as
an inflrument for the diredtory of France and
America ; for that a directory esifts here,
as well at in France, I have no donbt.
N- B. Last night a secret meeting of a
fcledt club of Jacobins alfembled at the house
of Isaac Starr, tanner, of famous Jacobin
memory—the old fox, Tilton, prefent—
the door fliut. Friends to government look
out ! the storm is gathering !
CONGRESS.
In Senate th's day, the answer to the
Preiident's Speech was agreei to, and the
committee who prepared it, appointed to
wait upon the Prelident to know at what
time it would be convenient for him to re
ceive it.
In tne House of Representatives, the
committee of revifal and imfinifhed bulinefs
reported in pa: t.
Mr. Harper moved, that a committee be
appointed to prejtffre and bring in a bill for
eftabliftllnan uniform system of bankrupt- •
cy throughout the United States.
. Mr. Harper also laid on the table a refo
lntion, the object of which was to authorile
the Secretary of State to cavife to be printed
copies of the Alien and Sedition law's, to
be diftnbmed grati. throughout the United
States.
To this he was induced, he said, from ob
lerving the unceasing. efforts which w?re
mad»' by a cert an class of men to bring these
ads into odium among the people—Misre
presentation.had been used, in order to ex
cite an armed oppofitian to the government.
dsasette sparine JLift.
New-York, December 6
ARRIVED. DAYS
Brig Bellona, Harding, Savannah 9
Schooner Fanny, Savnners, Laguira 43
. Mafiachufetts, Hitchcock. Havanna 21
Tlie Sheperdef* has arriyed at Savanna in
10 days from this port.
This day came up the armed (h : p Citizen,
I captain Hubbell, of 18 guns, 19 days from
the Havanna, whocameout with 36 Ame- 1
rican vessels under convoy, and parted with '
them on our coast. Two davs after he left 1
Havatina Spoke Baltimore (loop of war, J
Captain Phelpr, with a number of American h
vefTels under convoy, for the Havanna, all
well—The Confti'ution frigate parted con- -
c >nvoy, a few days ago spoke armed (hip
Deborah, of 20 guns, pith a numb rof vef (
fels under her protedtion, bound up the De
laware, wind blowing fre(h, could not learn
woere they were from. American produce
low at the Havanna, flour dollars per
barrel, Sugar from 6to 71, per cwt. cot-
ton goods prohibited. Four French priva
teers laying at the Havanna, tut did not C
seem disposed to go to sea.
Printing Work* *
Of Every Kind,
EXECUTED AT THE SHORTEST '
NOTICE, F
At tie Orricfc cf the Gailtte cf the
Ukit;o STATts,
OS. ;j. dtf .
5 - . FOR SAI ; E ' '
The fajl failing Schomtr
% THREE SISTERS,
r- -w is no'.c ready to take a 6a*-go on
of boaru, luppofcd wilfcirry 600 or iro barrels.
lit AL.SO, A SMALL I*VOICP
JAVA COFFEE,
SidjeS to drawback,
l,c Enquire of
■n JEnU HOLLINGSWORTH W Co.
as A'o. 47, Ptnn Street
lv dec?mber it dtf
it, THE CARGO,'
e- Ok thk. Ship INDIA,
ie Ciptain Asiiuead, from 13ATAVIA,
je Consisting of
JAVA COFFEE,
Of the Fit ft Quality—to he Sold, hy
MORDEC'aI lewis.
'I risc " daw
:y THE SUBSCRIBERS,
r- Of the City Dancing Assembly
of ARK informed, that thcFirft AffhnUy will be
held onThurlrfaytl c *o'h iaft. atCELLF»j Hotel.
cd Thomas IV. Francis 'James Gibfon
: j Thomas Ketland Jonathan Williamt
ir. Mathew Peart: Stephen Kingston
r- IViUiam Matphtrfon Samuel Murgatroyd
TO BE LET,
0 A NE AT. coaTMj-ent two-story frame HOUSE
n _ lA.:n J E MCE-KOUSE,fituated 'n south Faurtli
ft reft, below German Brest—The houfc is incom
1* ! plete or J ec, having two rooms on a floor, with a
spacious giftet; the lot is 19 1-1 ieet ftont on
te fourth (tree, anil in i-afect deep.
si- ■Ari ,l y to
VK CHRISTIAN EETZ,
ro 1:5, Mulberry flrcer.
re N B —A< the property belong* to orohan chil
dren, it i? expeiied that good fecutiy will bo given
for the rent.
decemher u. *798
GOOD IVsIGES
A\ ILL b;- givih to a frrvant Mar, who
can brlnj a good Kcraracndation, ai d will
as ap"lv at No. 13 t Walnut-street.
id dec. it. dtf
—
p- Wants a Place,
j rt A WOMAN with a good Bread of Milk,
Enquire at No. 58 South Front street.
is Dec. 10.
,g Ship Caffius at Au&ion.
•d On WEDNESD\Y next, the i.-,th ir.ftant, at:
]e 6 o'clock in the evening, will he fold by auc
j_ tion, at the merchant's coffee houle—
-5 ' The fti P Caflius,
Iyj"S " the na*y-yard, with her
1 *&&&& yards, as they now ire, fails,
>1- Ayi-tmja as per inventory, which will be
is produced at the time effale ; anchors, rigging,
;n and cable, as they now lay at Smith's llorei a
bove Rice street. This ship is copper bolted,
and coppered up to light-water mark.
This ship is a faft sailer and is pierced for 18
as guns.
« FOOTMAN & Co. autfisneer..
id dec. 8 , w
e > To the Creditors of the Subscribers.
PLEASE TO TAKE NOTICE, that we have ap
plied to the judges of the Court of Comm-11
fe Pleas, for the benefit of an aft of aflcmbly, pass d ihe
in £?. d, y °f April lad; and they have ippdnted
THURSDAY the 27th inft. to hear us and our Crc
— ditors, in the city of Philadelphia, at fnch place
k w here the Court may be held, ana wncre you msy
attend if you please.
PATRK K C*V*NAUGH,
James Dougherty,
PETER G. ROSE,
JOHN' GREENE,
le LEWIS £). GRAFF,
ie JAMES M'CALLEY-
Q d:c ' 8 »' 3 w 3*
lt ; This Day is Publiihed,
■- ANP ro* SAL IBY J.FENNO, UQ.CH KS N U T-S"> *I»T
AN ADDRESS
5 To the People of Maryland,
s ON the origin, progress and prelVst slate of
French aggrellion, with a sketch of the infamous
€ attempts to degrade the Government of the United
State;, and some reflection son the late proceeding*
' iu Conyelsj wri:ten the last of April in the pre '
" Tent year, by a Member of the Houre of Reprefen
t.tivss. $ junen
[• This Day Publifbea,
c And for fate at the Ojfice of r(,s Editor, No.
d 119 CheJiiut-fl ctt,
0 (Price I-ith rf a J)ol ar,J
d N ORAT 10 N,
Pronouiiffcil Julv 4,1798,
_ At therequeft of the Inhabliacts of the Town of
e BOSTON, in of th,e *nni
. vcrfarv of American Independence.
By jostah Sli'TNcr.
" The inroads upon our public liVerty, call
for reparation—The wronjrs we havefuftaineiJ,
ciil for Justice. That Reparation and tint
Jnftire, may yst he obtained, by Union, Spirit,
and Firmness But to divide and conquer was
the maxim of the Devil in the garden of Eden,
and to disunite fcnd enslave hath been the princi
ple of all bis votaries from that period to the
present."
5 Observations on the Boston Port-Bill, I3c.fi. 78
) h thtiate J. Qtiicj, jun,
5 "'fft 11
1 Mrs. Spurrier,
MIDWIFE,
From tin cityof London lying-in Hospital.
' Tj 1 this opportunity of returning h»r
1 .LLj lincere thanks to those ladies whom she has
- had the honor to attend, and moil cefpeflfnUy in
( forms th«m and her other friends tSa'. (he has re
moved to sou h Sixth street two doors from Chef
nut street, oppolite Cangref, Hall, *Hierefteflat
-1 tenberfelf by careful att«nt : on to the duties of
her profeflian to merit their future favors.
nov fw&fa.ira
The Creditors
Of William Steedtnan and John Smith, of
the County of Northumberland, iri'tl le
State of PeHHfylvania, lately trading un
der the Firm of
Stefdman £sf Smith
W^ L ' AK | E NO X'9 E > th4t f h" Suhbribers
» V have made application to the Judges of the
Court of Common Ple?s for the County cf N or
thamberland aforefaid, (or he benefit of the fevcral
- the Stat(! of ''ennfylvania* passe.i f w r r|.»
relief ot infolvsnt Bebtors, .nd -hit the fiid ( ourr
hath appointed the Thirtieth <l ,y of November
next, being the Friday of the Court of Common
Pleas, to heir our Cie.litir,-at Anbury i a
the Coupty of Northumberland at « hieh tim ' d
place you may ai-ewt if vct rhink proper
WILLIAM STEEDMAN.
JOHN SMITH.
Nor:humhcilaa<l, Ncvimbcr j »- 9 3
nov ;rr.b<r»
ra V3\tIT!-}-.-sraKTT ««- -
Philadelphia, N vember 26,
)\ LL pertor-- difir< 'jsof lurnifh.ng by
-tX rations -f proviiiom, draw and ffi-1, for ill
fh- troops, which now art.-, or nereaftcr may be
at any or evrry station, post, encamp. newt, re
cruiting rendezvous or elfcwhere in the state ol
P«nnfylvai ia, for and during the yoar 1799, ct
eeptat Prefqu' Isle, l a 13<ruff, Fort Frauklra and
Piitfburg—will he pleased to f"nd in their pr»>po
fal- under sealed covers, on or before the 2'cth of 1
next month. December, to j
TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor.
THE RATION TO CONSIST OF
I 1-4 pound of beef or 3 4 of a pound of pork
18 ounces of bread or flour '
I gill of rum, brandy or whiftey.
4 quarts of fait ~v 1
4 quarts of viaegar
4 pounds of soap ( For C9 "f 100 "t'oos
- l-alb. candles. J
As Coßgrefsmay at their next felfion make al
terations in the quantity of lonic of the compo
nent parts of this ratior—it is requested of those
who May offer proposals to name the price of each
• pirt, which will fervcto govern iii cafe of dimi- .
nucion or increase.
Nov. 26 tu.w&th tioD
For Sale, ■
45 Bnxes Havanna Sugar
*6 I'lkU f.t Croix do ( Entitled to
fx B.ii'3 Carracas Cocoa f (Diawback. '
3; liiids. Coffee )
H'JNBt ft y LEECH, y
N'n. 9, Walnut-ltreet. f
c * ■> d 1 w g
FOII SALE I
liy the Stib/cribers, f<
ON VERY LOW TERVJ
WAX CANDLES,
OF A SUI" RIOR QUALjTV,
Either by the !>ox ot 24.1b5, or !iv the quan- '
. ! ity - w
killings & Francis.
nov 24 ' a:
T E PARTNERSHIP OF a:
Alexr. J. Miller, Go.
SiING diff>Wed on the firit inftanr, by the
-O death of /amis Davis, all persons indebted [ ,
totb? lame arc requested to fettle with tke sub- ;
fcribcr, and f-to whom tft-y a.e indebted are '
:cqiiclte ! to till mi him f'>r pavmcnt.
ALI-XR. J.' MiI.LEU, Jv
Al. 64., South Front Jlreet,
Who has on hand,
ion uis'foitanr o* lowtf.hms, in
by the i'ceiage r.r l'i<ce.
Viae plain and tamboured Muslins ci l
Guzzeunas
irattas
Collars
India CaJlicitc*
Hoc k Muffns
Ci'hom d d tto .
Real & Ym< k Madras & pulllcat hkfs.
Brown Silt/ns
Ticking?, 'Uc. &c.
just Arrived,
KN ASSORTMENT OF /
Iriih Linens 'iff Rulfia Sheetings. Co
nnv 2? V
The Subicribers U
Jluvc rcceiveit hy the late European arrivals, the
Following Merchandize,
■SJiippctl them principally on coiilignment, which I
tli * rby package to WholefileStore Keepers, Vic
.ir others, 011 very advantageous terms, for enfh, C es
;ppro\ed potc«, or bills of exchange on London. e«,
Medford izf Willis, fr!:
North Front Strict.
IRISH LINENS.
1 anted calicoes, furnitures, purple and colored gol
shawls
.•lufiiils, plain, flriped, ctieclcd and fancy
liilalore, jaconet and book handkerchiefs -1
Fine and tundry halierdalhery
Scotch and colored threads
Scarlet cloth cardinals
Dnrants and calamancoes () f ,
V.'orfied, cotton and fancy liofiery l un
V'lt, tailor and heaver hats fp~j
VotkCiire plains aud broadcloths f(. rv
fl.iin and twilled coatings andduffills IT)CI
Jairimeres and i'wanfdowns
: me, point and role blankets ] ott !
*■ l.ite colored aud-Wellh flannels y of
jvnapt Ken<ialt cottons
'.v ili fied and tnolnir plushes ,
Pc-ter, alTorted in small calki
Sjudes, (hovels, frying pans & ironmongery ,
An invoice of Watches &
calks nails assorted.
wov ii (S n
RESIT fttdttb: ~
Tin's day will lie landed at Hamilton's <^nr
wharf, from on board the brig Eliza,
captain Vatighan, t
MALAGA f'RUITS, c °ou
Of the bell quality, conilting of
Sun Raisins in kegs, r *'
Mufeatd and Bloome do. in boxes,
Figgs in kegs and boxes,
Soft shelled Almonds in sacks,
Jordan d». in bojtei, p
Lemons in chcfc, "~'
Anchovies in kegs,
Pniens in box;s, J
A few jars Grapes, &sc. &c. ar ]
/llfo on hand, lon,
Hoil.ind Geneva in pipes, prefi
Sherry Wine in quarter calks, i«fs t
French and Spanilh Brandy in pipes and * rc^e
butts. ate '
Belt 01i»c Oil in boxes of 12 bottles. j '
Fjor Sale by PETER KUHN, j j™,
No. 179, N. Market Streat. ! take
December 6. diot i P;
FO R SALE, Net
No. 7, South Fouhth-Striet. Fror
1000 pieces Nankeens,
t\ ox of Silks
*0 Boxes powdered Sugar Candy of I33wt.
A parcel verv fine Cnflia.
C H AIGHT. ,[
S 3awaw lncli|
' ~ John
FOR SALE,
By the Subfcrlbers j u i
200 Bolts Rullia Duck,
30 London pattieular fcill .VlaflciraWine TT(
1 paii nine puund Cannon
A lew Rjlcs Madras Handkerchiefs LiiUi
4oitvf. Fine Flota Indigo and t
sj iiarrcls Beef. will >
Witlings & Francis. in wi
\ ; Vnn-flrcct, > tfr,uh
!\OVtsiber it J J
IMO
|
£ Dancing School. j
- I
ti ' V * peJUui conjplimc: ts to the public :' takes
rhe Inicit)- of tli;m, that at th; requell
' r '" "t mteji of his foraer employer', h? will open
3,c hi» >ciool, at his Ball Room, in Fourth, bet-
CX i wfcn CHefuotandWalaut (lreets,on the firll iVfou
-1 day of DecemF-c*—For Yowig I.adies at ten
",' p0 ' r o'clock in the iporni'ig—and for Gentlemen, at
ta 0 I lix in t'ne evenings of Mondays, WednetUays and
{ Fridays.
r " 28 roim
All'persons
rk Indebted to tha Estate of Mr. John FsNso,lat;
of Philadelphia, deceafed,are dclirtdto make pay
nient, and those having any demands, to prefmt
fhem for fettlsrvent, to
SAMUEL BLOD3ET, Adm'r. '
tions. or
JOHN WARD Ff.NNO, Agent
e al- to the administration.
mpo- nov. <Sim
,ho £ Lancaster County Butter,
llmi- T , IN KEGS, —FOR SILE,
inquire at No. 92, Market-street,
D near Third-Street.
der 1
WOODBURY ACADEMY.
to * ,
k* r T l l]k. Truflees of the Woodbury Academy,
A in thee unty of Gloucester, New-Jer<ev,
have the lansfadlion to ■• farm the numerous
patrons of that'institution, that tliey have tn
vv gi'gfxl the Reverend 7hoinas Piclon, to he the
principal, and to take upon hi.nle'lf th« thirge
<>f the above leminary of learning, and that the
j lcliool w i.l lv- opened i>n Monday the tenth inft.
Among thSfxercif»» taught here, will be the
English % La fin and Greek languages, cramati
• Reading 9 Writing and Arithmetic in ali
; its branches; Stenography, Geometry, Geogra
phy red the ule ct trie Gloh.s, Navigation, Stir
i «• ftng, oc.
) i hii inltitution r/as formerly under the care
and the fjrne attention to the education and mo
nrkof the youth, which under him lb highly
c-iftinguifhsd it, will be puriued with unremit
it,v ent ' cav ' jrs > by the present principal and du
p , v attended to by thetruftees.
a * " e town °f Woodbury ;s fiMiated on an high
nil elevated spot : It-is airy, pleaTant, and re
markably healthy, and is Utit nine miles difiaut
from tKe City of Philadelphia.
Parent*! guardians and others, who are dif
p»fed to fend their youth to this place, will find
exceeding good, decent and comfortable hoard- J
ing and lodging, and upon rcal'onable terms., ,
Further apphcatiun may be inade to the prin
cipal, or
John Sparks
Thomas Hendry
Franklin Dtrveupvrt c i
JoJhita L. Howell j> Trustees. g
John Blackwood I hs
John Lawrence I a
Thomas Hcjlou J
ELISHA CLARK,
Secretary of the Board.
Woodbury, Dec 3 diet
Ephraim Clark,
CLOCK 6? WATCH MAKER, r
I®* Comer of Front and Market ilrccts, Philadelphia,
_ HAS JUST RECEIVED, ]a ~
BY the different arrivals, a large supply of Clock an
and Watch malctrs and Silver Smiths Tools, Pct ,
filae and materials,
CONSIST INO OK , ,
eh Rowh'ng Mills, large and small Bench and Hand
rs. Vices, Turnbenches, Plyen, Sliding Tongs, Bra
sh, ces and Bitts, Grooving tools, Saws, Scratch brilh
>n. c, Blow pipes, Screw and Draw plates,large and
small Hammers, Clock dials, call brafi Bells, for
,t ged w«rk and pinions, Emery, Rotten (tone, Pu
mice (lone, Borax, Spelter Sorder, Brass, Steel and
Iron wire, Iheet Brass, m»i! springs and glalles
td gold, gilt, and llcel chains, seals and kays, &c. &c. of
Cj" Clocks and Watches carefully repaired :
Wov. -it e' dtf '
Notice is hereby Given,
application will be made at the Trea- r-r
J- fury of the United States for the renewal /
of tke following certificates of Six per Cents, me
funded debt—Handing in the name of Robert ~;t )
Wilson of Calcutta in Bengal, Surgeon in the me .
service of the honorable United of dei
merchants of England trading to the Eaft-In
die3, which were loft from on board the Swal
low-Packet, capt Kidd, from Falmouth to New-
York. Dolls. Cts.
No 10,444, Reg. office 14th Dec. [
1-J3, one certificate for 1733 33
No 10,478, Keg office 17th D-ec. TJ
x 793, one certificate for 1959 50 -Li
Ellijlon isf John Perot. cit :
noy 13 eod6w ar *
Whereas the certificate of two Eft;
' g (bares of the Bank of the United States in the
name or Samuel Amory, of London, banker,
No 31,81, ilTued in lieu of 11593, 11594, were I
forwarded from London by the Britilh packet
Countefj, of Leicester, capt. Dodd, bound for
New-York, which packet was captured by the M
Frtnch, and the faifa certificate loft ; and for the
renewal of winch, application is made at (aid an
Bank, and all persons concerned are desired to °?
take notice. Ed c
CLEMENT BIDDLE. rc S;
Fhila. Odl. *6, 1798. eo6w P ac
■ . lette
"atent Ploughs, writ
TO be fold for calh by Joseph Salter at Atfiou wl^
Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry—Jonathan will
Harker., Woodbury—and Jefle Evans, Lumber- P°®
ton, Those who have used them give them the
preference to my other kind, as they requirs
isfsteam, breaK the ground better; are kept in p
3 wrder at less expence and are fold at a cheaper
rate —the plan is much Amplified and coafilU ol
i but one piece of cast iron, with the handles and T
| beam of wnod ; they may befixed with wcought of th
I lays and coulters to be put on with l'crews and ' s ß <
• | taken off at pleasure in th
I Patent lights for vending with inflruftions for *' , ' c
making them may be had by applying to John ct > C
Newbold, or the fublcriber No. jia North
Front-ilreet.
Who has for Sale; . 13
Or to Lease for a term of tears, _
A number of valuable trafls of Land, well ——
situated far Iron A'orks or Farms, most
ly improved, lying chiefly in the county of Hun- ij •
tingdon state of Pennsylvania. Those who may
incline to view them will plcafe to apply to
John Canan tlq. near Huntingdon.
Claries Newbold. Car?
July ' 1 lawtf
Hori'es to Winter.
HItoES will be taken in to winter atPno
sriCT Hill, at the 12 Mil* Stone, on the
Eritinl road ; they will he weW fed wita clover no
and limuthy liay, well littered aud cleaned, and
wili alio have a large field to exercise themfelvcs
in when the weather is good Esquire of Mr. A
IVUiijr: B.U, merchant, Watet Urect, er on the r ' ro <
premises. PciiH
Nov. 7 iff if no
: IM POR Te D
i< res- i lst fr/DBi Bremen,
takes liamburg and Amsterdam,
AND FOR SALE,
°F' CM AT REA SO SABLE PRICES AND ON A L 2 I ¥ \ L
' Ct ' CREDIT, RV
Mou * PR/ITT KINT7TNQ,
te ' l Na, J5, Vorth Water street.
"'and 21 5 & boxes licklenburghs, l
liempen linens and oznabriga from i_/j to I
rm 3/ per ell
70 do. bleached and brown hessians |
40 do. brown rolls fnitable for cos- ,
: fee bags
■efmt 1 ,1 , , t
20 do. itrong do. do. for cotton do.
l'r. 30 cfcclU platillas 2 do. sealing-wax
3 do. dowias 3 packages oil-cloth
jent 30 do. crca- ala Morlaix 4 do. ftij-twfei
on. 12 do. eAopallU-s I do. wvehes
im IT do. BielefieJJ linen 14 pips. Port wine
90 »!o. patterb 'jnes 92 cases claret
45 do Britranias do fine Icng corhed
t do. Holland ennvafs claret
eet, 1 do, Rwlua do. i&ao huftt Is fine fait
3 do. Rulfia fl'ectirigs (O cafeofrol] brluiflone "
I do. ravens duck ioa calks of naval Mores.
% do. Rullia drilleni 50 h>gs prinje mahogany
1 I do. lir.iwn ! oiland 4 hh'Js. coffee mills
a do. Silelia rouans 0 bundles German ileel
I dt.Wahrendrop linen 10 chcllsi of flitcs and
- m y. 1 do. Caraudoles pencils
I do. F)cniif!ilinens »\ |»ckageo f flcaurs
:rnus 1 do. caaibriclcs and A do. woolen caps, &c.
e(l1 'awns 4 chelts o< Nurcnbeig
the Ido diaper toys
•lrge 12 do. ilripes 40 ke;;s of yellow ochre
t the «8 do. checks 3 )dids. Glue
ift. » *'o. flamols g barrels of Lentilies
. ;he * do. Arabia flripe g elicits of prime red
lati- 1 do. bunting for color- crult Holland cheeffi
n jii I packa. Madras hand- 30 kegs of pearl barley
r, ra . kerchiefs 60 boxes of capers
Stir- 1 do. Turkey yarn 400 fides of upper and B
6 bales empty bags foal leather R
care Ic ' hair ribband 302 boxes window glass
Jt , r 3 boxes t2pe« r a(Torted Spo liemijohns
' 2d» I ofchin, alforted 50 boxes gltfs tHmblers
1 box threads & tapes alforted . 1
■ . r do. fine blue Jidados 2 hluls. pumice stone . ri
5 chefis men's flippers 1 box of mill saws ,
" u - 3 do bed ticks I calk of cutlery Ir ;
2 cafls hog's bridles A quantitv of fic.ue jugs 1
"gh chests writing paper 1 and pickling pots
rc- 4 do. quills fA f«w Clips aadiors, &c.
laut novemlter 12 tu&f-tf T
dif- To be Sold, c!
Snd OR EXCHANGED, N<
nd- For property in the Citv, or within Thirty A
milts of it, | n<
A Valuable Plantation, h ?,
TN Tufcorqra Valicy, MiiHin county, containing W
-i ab«iit three hundred acres, the whole capable Sp<
of cultivation. At. present there is about 50 acres ]
cleared, 20 of which is a rich bottom of Meadow
CS. Ground, enriched by a never failing ftreani, tnac
has fall and water enough for all the purpofej of To
a Counfry Mii!. For further apply at n ,j
No. 68, Market flreet. q
november *2O taw
~ TorTXLE, "*
; Fifty sicres of Good Land\ En
Lying in Gloucester Covnty, J
State of A'CH-.Jerfey,
'j a ' I I WENTY-FOUR acres ot whichaie
A Woodland, the reft, Meadow. This _
land Jies about half a raile from Timbcr-Crc«k, I
'ck and two miles from the river Delaware, the n
,ls > eounty road pafling through it, and the great
road only two miles ilillant. For terms, apply °
n<j to, PATRICK DOGHERTY,
Sign of the Rainbow, in Shipprn,
(jj. between Second and Third-Jlreets.
n,t *^ ec 4 V
ADVERTISEMENT'. att£
u-
es Todd & fvioTT, 1
LC - or the City of I'hiladelphia, Merchants, having
;d afligned over their cffals, real, pcrfonal, end t-j
mixed, to the fabferibers for the benefit of all Sv
their Creditors— v
Notice is hereby Given,
ai all P erf Q ns wbo a . rc indebted to the said Wht
•1- estate, that they arc required to make iin- ceiv<
' mediate payment of tbeir refpe«flive account? to nc
either of the aflignees, in failure whereoi; legal
r measures will be taken for the recovery cf such
debts as are cot difchai ged without delay.
"* John Waddington
'John Rhodes I Affip;nee3,
John Allen. j
nov - tu.th&fatFi
ALL PERSONS, " n ' 3
HAVING demands a ? ain(t the Estate of M
Henry Schafff.r, deceased, late ofthe
City of Philadelphia, Malfler and Shopkeeper
are requested to jurnifti their accounts properly j-f'
authenticated and all persons indebted to said
0 Estate are desired to make fpeedv payment to
e C/tSPAIi W. HAINES, ) . .' ..
r, FREDERICK GAUL, j «dmi„t/!natars
'e nth rro. 13 f CJ
■' M ails for South-Carolina iff H/is
t TJACKETS a-re now provided for carrying the
e A Public mails by water between Philadelphia
d and Cbarlefton. They will leave Philadelphia j i- x t
0 on Friday's. Th« post by land wi{l be continu-|
ed twice a week until an experiment is made in i
regird to the expedition and regularity of the .
packets. If any person chufes" to have their
. letters sent by land only, they will plealV to
write the word Land apoh the letters : other-
B Wife tliev will be sent by that c.nveyanee which /,llt
n will firft (tart after the letters are left yi the j
■. pofi-effice. :£?
Joseph Habcrjham, noi
Pojl-Mafler Gemerl.
r Philadelphia, -tiugitft 13, IJ9B §
1 Notice is hereby given, Fi r
J THA I' application will be niad t - to the trcafury Marie
t of the United ttaus lor ths renewal of the follow- (
i isg certificate' of ftx per cents, fu Riled debts, (land
in the name of Jane Gabrielle Rigaud, of Geneva, J}..
r which were 101 l from on board the Swallow Pack- ( | tt
, ct, Capt. Kidd, from Falmouth to New-Yoik.
i Dat,.
No. 3195. Reg. o(Rce 19th May '95, icert. for ioco r\l
13,181. do. 14th do. do. 1 do. for 3500 _L-/
Willingi & Francis. He ha
I October 14, eoo6w. ve(i,li
tOR BALE. ~
' Rice, in whole and half Tierces. a Car
Sifl WINES. 8K
Carolina and Georgia Indigo. days a
AND A PARCEL OF ashe l
Shipping Furs and Skins. oa
Apply to
M J. Frazier,
N». 93, So. Front Street
november 13 3taw3 w "\T7"
FOR SALE, VERT CH&fIP, W
A ©uantity of printed Pap r, Suitable for well a
Grocrrs, Tobacconists, &c. Enquire ot the Iwndy
Printer, ;
nov 2* BGV
'
oautuel 'S ABcrs Fifiier,
No. 27, Dock.Stkfst.
'Tien, Have rcctiwdper *kt Moaning Star, from
Teneriffe,
Good Cargo Wine,
*ln Pipes. and Qairter Calks.
Per the Palias, from Hamburgh,
trc«. German Oznahrigs &Tick|enburgs. |
T hs I And by the late arrivals ft cm London- 1
3 ' Liverpn-l, Bristol. HnU and Mnhlin. |
15 t0 A Gt.SF.RAL OF
WOOLEN GOODS,
' :iHS , /S!.VClfAl.Llr OS CO-NIICigUEST.
;of- ; Which they 2re desirous f>f fetljng by tile
| Package, in which are separately made up —
the following articles on low terms '
•JO. Rcife Blankets, 6 4, 10 10-4
2 'a & 3 point blankets
h Mottled and green Huts 6-4 to 3-4
."•jixt and drab Forrefi cloths, lor (id
Fearnoughts
lihie Plains
, . Dlu{, » !*>'*' and d-ah plain', sorted prices 1
Mixt, twill d, liripad and blue coat'V.gs, do (11
ldtie, mixt and brown kersey duffals, sorted h<
ftnne ' C " !<W * J,,d P ricc * th
[)r( . s- Mill'ddrab Broadcloth*, sorted prices
-any stlus Br O*dcJoths, d»
L.uv priced Broadcloth', colors neatly fcrted
tleel Sv/anldown, ilriped and printed Kerfymeres
and Mixed and lorted colored Kerfeymerej
Meat super and fuperfine Cloths, Ebfiics and A
Beverctts j "
&c. White, yellow and redFlsnn<ls, sorted prices !
bdi I'Teen .v.d .vhite Maize
. Varn and Caps
chre Coarse and fine Hat,, in oifes of 6 dozen each ~
' ic pieces liiperfinc wide Black Rulfels
es Joans Spinning and Csmblcts
U 'vMr n c l "n" ;rC " r r,mimon an! fine drawn }
r | e „ MAILS, flait and (harp points, well assorted ,
; They have al/o for Sale,
and British OzsabrigsT
Ravens Duck " C IN BALES. r
' Rulfia Sheetings J
lers £ ax '" n 3;ul Bohe,nia Wowlm—in Chests
Brown quadruple Silefias and white Platillas, do j
le Irifu Linens, in Boxes' r,
Irilh Dowlas, white and brown
Iriih Sheetings, do I '
ugs Irilii Sacking
Shot, afTorteiJ. Red and White Lead and Span
&c. i'ii Brown 1
r T Crawley Millington Steel j "' n
Queens ware, in Crates j r ro
Glass ware, in Crates and hoglhead? m
Newcallle Grinddones. Boxes tin plates 1
rty A lew pipes London market Ttneriffe Wise ?® e
India Romall Hdkfs.} 1,1
Long Cloths £ IN R/ILES. ,
y Hnmhums j ,
in* Woonans (hoes, in barrels E
bis Spermaceti Candles, in boxes.
res 11 mo 17 nw6w rep .
3W " ~ : I
»" FOR SALE, a S<
of To be T.XCHANGED for property within thirty j^ r r
at nii'es o( the city, or to let on ground-rent forever ,
Several valuable building Lots, [ll
In Philadelphia, A
Enquire of William M. Biddle. nc. 147, Chefnut- ed
> street. p. r ,
nov * 2 £_ on I
le Ironmongery, Cutlery, &c.
lis THE SUBSCRIBERS rew
TNTENDING to decline their ptefent Eufmefs, able
offer tor file, at reduced prices, a handfoius
aflortment ol IroEmongery, Cutlery, &c.,in lots
to suit the purchasers.
Johtt Green £s* Co.
No. 16, Ntfrth Second llrect.
Ironmongers »
Will find the above Goods not Hnworty their iJL
attention.
nov.2-; no
Dobbin & Roberts, A
'? TAYLORS, iir,
|) ir forru theirCuflomers, and requi
Public in gent rat, that they have rcnio- theni
ved from No. 114, Chepiut Street, to are r
No. 30, South Fourth Street; I>hila
d Where orders in their line will be thankfully re
i- ccived and rliligcntly attended to.
o not ember 15 mw&f,jw
h French Language.
G. DUFIEF, (L 1
No. 63, South Second Street,
WILL OP FN Amc
His DAY and EVENING SCHOOL,
f w Wednesday, the 14th Infl. word
e N. B - Private Tuition attended to as usual " 1
r and rrar.flations from either Language into the « Na
other, performed with accuracy, secrecy, and " toi
> dispatch. ' „ ty
nov - 10 ewtf " the
T T r-» t ' le
John J. Parry, "
" rhl
_ CLOCK & WATCHMAKER, «• M-.
, H/is again opened at his usual Stand, No. 38, "
; South SecondJlreet —where he has for Sale, 1
j a variety of Unite
; j Excellent Gold & Silver Watches, c m h *'^.
■ j AKD A FE W r . *
; { Eight Day Cclocks, 1 s&t
Which r.ii!l be warranted to give fitisfadion. No
An afibrtment of
Gold, Steel and Gilt cbaiits, Seals and Keys.
Jill kinds of Clock and IVatch ivvrjr done with IT J
. ; particular attention as heretofore. W
•p* An Appren'ice wanted.
November 12 _ ~t.w&fy. v . wh " l
LARENCE SECKEL, "S
No'. 155, Marie*. Street.
I irft quahty London Particular / i„ IXTr A 1
Madeira, Port, Sherry and Lisbon ) 'NEs.
Cogni-ic Brandy, ill to 4th proof. to h
Sp fits. J loi
• By the Pipe, Hlid, Qnarter-ca(k «r Gallo«. has ha
— ( c€ 3 row&f 1 w chaugj
TEN DOLLARS REWARD. StM '
last n, S ht . 3 fecund time, from them t
the Marine Camp, David Luf.r, a lifer.— names
He had when he went away, a plain One jacket and tabic r
veli,light blueoverall., a round hat,which been sha IT
bound with yellow, and which he had ripped off futifcr!
in his firft defsrtion, and a pair of new (hoes, he is villain,
a Carpenter by trade, has grey eyes, Tandy hair 1 hav
fallow complexion and a niteh in his upper lip T)n,t«^
Hi* back is still fore from a flogging he got a few fellow
days ago He may ba discovered by his Cfeimr
as he plays extremely well. ' ~
W. Wl BURROWS Major Com. of the ml
Oitober 17. Majine Corps.
The time of an Adive
BLACK B0 Y,
VTTHO is about sixteen y ars old, and has fire
V >' cars tJ fc "«. to he disposed of. He « n
well acquainted with the hufin-fs of a i rr n, an.l .
nandy at cooking or waitii g in the bsufe. En- Now i
quire at the office of thii Gazette.
" GV * CO.IW I1«V2
Imported,
from
In the S/iips Active and Liberty,
from H .IMBURGH,
Ticklenhurghs,
ks. Oznabrigs,
White Platifias
irgs. I Brown Siiefias
n * j Bretagnes
Hessian Rolls
Brown Russia Sheetings
, tlle German Lindfeys,
up— Bed Ticks, &c.
For Sale by
GEORGE PENNQCK,
no. 103 Market-Greet.
n r, v 7q
notice.
All Persons indebted to the Estate of Wil.
liam Beauchimp, lately deceased, are de
do fired to make immediate payment and those w h»
>ned have any claims against said Estate to produce
their accounts properly attested to
Sam!. Price, executor.
rted " ov 20 . dim <
BEE F, ~~
an( J OF THE first quality,
i And fit for India voyi-ges—For Sale By
ices! WILLIAM SHEAFF,
No. 168, High Street.
• nov. 23 ( ; t f
acb i
TOR SALE,
By the Subscriber,
*n Belfaft Canvass, No. r, to 7,
tc On moderate terms fur. Cash or a fliort credit.
James Lyle,
Scutb Seventh flreet, near CbeMut.
nov 16 j
Forty Dollars Reward.
,0 DESERTS D,
From a Detachment of Men under my com
mand, at Camp TVeJI Schuylkill, viz.
1 Oflober 20.
»n- i
\J« reet 6 inches in height, dark hair and
, c'-tJiplrx.un. hor,, in Holl , ndi no T ,. ade> fpeak#
inlSl^'; 8 " dV "' yUPIt3t,Ve ' Simple
November k. J ofrn Murphy, 2J of
5 h!,r 7 1 ! nctci ln hei 8 ht > K rf y «•)«» dark
nVXt P^ X,on ' b,>rnin I'eiand. city of
Uuh ti, by trade a llozier.
hir-l^ C °i'r !■ h 34 years of age, - feet 6 inches
bom'iif ! y ?' complexion,
date of Connecticut, I
repeated deserter, by tradea RUckftnith.
AevemSer 7. William Collins, 30 y«.. of
rty grtyeyes, born in Ireland, county of
er Wexford, by trade a Gardner, has worked for
some time about Philadelphia, he is very fond
Sy to hear himfelt Sing.
All the above deserters are very much add'iA-
Jt- ed to l:quor, and will take other people's pro
pertv if in their power, are artificially marked
ihtr'r regimental Nothing. Whosoever appre
hends laid deserters, shall receive forty dollaw
reward, or leu dollars fr.reach, with all reafoh
fs, able txpences, by applying to me as above,
EDWARD MILLER, captain
ts I'd regiment of Infantry commanding.
nov—— £
BALLAST.
AQUAN' lITY 10 be disposed of, if applied for
immediately, on board the ?*,ip Louisa, lyimr
Mb. HUMPHREY'S S;iip Yard,
no*em.ber 1 o. j
A IX PERSONS having any legal demands a
gamft the estate of William Pi. lit,,, dcce. lid,
late of tht city of Philadelphia, Tavern keeper, are
id rMHtflcd to furni£h their accounts properly au
-- thenficated, and all persons indcUe4 to estate
are rarefied to make payment to the fubferiber m
Philadelphia.
t . „ i- £ VI HOLLINGSWORTH Admit*.
October 3irt t 1798.
■v " '
DISTRIC r OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO WIT :
IT REMEMBERED,
*HAT on the twelfth day
X / ofAuguft, in the twenty-third year of
»■ the Independence of the United 9tates of
America, Bcnjcnnn Smith liarton.ef the said dif
tricl, h'th deposited in this office the title of a '
> book the right whereof he claims at author in the
words following to wit :
1 " New Views of the Origin of the Tribes and
e " Nations of America—By Vvnjamia Smith Bar
d " ton, M. D.Correfpondeiit Memberol theSocie
" ty of the Antiquaries of Scotland, Member of
" the American Philosophical Socieiy, Fellow of
•' the American Academy of Arts and Sciences of
" Boftcu, Correfpondidg Member of the Maffa
" chufctts Hillorical Society, and Prcfeffor of
" Materia M%dica, Natural Hitlory and Botany
, " 111 the IJniveruty at'Pennfylvauia."
In coi.lormity to the ail of the Congreft of the
United State-, intitled "An for th« encouraga
m«nt of ."earning by fecurihg th.: copies of maps,
' charts,;md bo^k 5, to the authors aud proprietor,
of fpch copies during the timesthrr.in mention«d.'»
SAMUEL CAI.UWELL, Cierk, Dill, 0: Penn*
November », 1798.
A Young Mail,
» \X7"HO writes a good hand, tmderftand*.
VV accounts andean be well recommended*
wants a Sitiiatjon as Clerk or Afiiftant i«i
Wholefsle btorf, or CouutMig-ht uf'e. Appli
cation to be made at this Office.
nov 14 $
—
A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.. :
JOHN A. SHAEFFER, si Philadelphia, who has
for a lew years past hern in the fouthcrn
has had the effrontery to draw l'evcral Bills of Ex
change on Timothy Pickering, Esq. Secretary of
State, and mytclf.and by that mentis hasdelraudfd
a number of persons of their money, deceiving
them by au exhibitioirof letters aud papers v. ith the
names affixed of divers public charadetfi and repu
i t.ible merchants highly recommendatory of laid
Sha.ff.r; to one of theft papers t find my name
fubferibtd, but I do not know the man ; these are
villainous forgtries! I'o prevent futther imposition,
I have to requelt the printer* of Ncwfpapers in the
United States to publilh this for the benefit of their
fellow-citizens. SAMUEL MEREDITH,
J?"rcafurcr of tb: United Stain.
Trent on, Neiu -
OfleLer 24, 1798. )
To be Let,
4ND POSSESSION GI f£ N
ON THE I4TH APRIL NEXT,
THE CITY TAVERN,
Now in the poflcflion of Samuel Richaroet?
Apply at this Office,
novacibcr 13