of ti)c Dally Advertiser:
Number 1740.J
For Savannah,
(To fail on Saturday the *]th of April)
A THE SHIP
.p&Mr SWIFT PACKET,
! P AT * ICK Okiibim, Mailer. >!
If- A regular eftablilhedPacket with
Vj&Ugfzg- elegant accommodation!.—For
freight or paflage apply io the Mailer on board at I
Rof>'« wharf, or to
N. & J. Frazier,
No. 95, South Front Street.
Who have for sale a quantity of prime new Rice
by said vefiel.
march • Ajl
FOE SALE.
rUtlHavannah Sugar
200 H ides
Will b« landed to morrow, at Willingsand Fran-
wharf, frona on board the brig A&ive, Will
iam Williams, master.
faid Brigforfale,
T.' , . t r And may tike in inimedi
■■ ately after difchargcd.
Apply to
Jehu HollingJworlh £3* Co.
march 30. §
This Day will be Landed,
At Morrin's wharf, just above the Drawbridge,
from on board thc-brig Eliza, capt. Vaughan,
from Malaga—
Fresh Fruits, Wine and Brandy
Lemons in chells and half chests
Raisins of Sun in kegs
Figs in do.
Soft fhell'd Almonds in sacks
Grapes and Olives in jars
Bloom and Muscatel Raisins in boxes
Anchovies in kegs
Jordan and Bitter Alaiorkls in boxes
Old Mountain Wine in qr. calks
Brandy in butts, &c. See.
For Sale by
PETER KUHN.
P. s. —* gv f faj '
immediately applied for ; {he
wj&r jg a remarkable fine faft failing
veffe 1, having made her paffagc
to and from Malaga in littiemore than 60 days,
march 26. lot
Freight Wanted.
FOR BREMEN,
Hamburgh Brig
HENRIETTA,
Peter P. Schmidt, Master,
NOW lying at Jeffe and R. Waln't wharf—A
stout, strong vessel, of about 27° tons
th«n, in good order ; has two thirds of her cargo
ready to goon board, and begins to load to-morrow.
For Freight only, apply to
PRATT £3* KINTZING,
No. 9;, North Water-ftteet.
IVbo bavs JUST RECEIVED, a„J FOtt SALS,
11 bale. Tickleburg. and Oznabrigs
• do. Vatterbornes
X do. bleached Heflians
I package Oil Cloth
I chest and 8 barrels Snuff Boxei
30 Liquor Cases
99 anciiors pearl Baryle, -ind
4 cases elegant Carriage Harnels, Whips,
Spurs, &c. t
THtr HAVE For SAL*
Claret in cases, Port Wine in pipes, Ruflia .Soap
in fniallboies, Rice, Brirnftone, Tumblers, Win
dow Glass, Slates, a cargo of excellent Mahoga
ny, HelCans, Brown Rolls, Polish Linens, empty
Coffee Bags, &c &'c. all entitled to the drawback,
march «o. tuthitw
For Hamburgh,
THE SHIP
Dominick Terry,
J 0 * 1 " Majler,
partof her cargo en"
gaged.—For freight appiy to
-Jeffe & Robert Wain.
February 26
Nicklin Griffith,
At their Store on Walnut Strett Wharf—»
HAV* FOR SALE,
5.8 hhd«. of Jamaica Rnm
Madeira Wine in pipes andhhds.
Teneriffe do. in pipes
Old Port do. in hhd«.
Imperial Tea in quarters and eighths ®f cheftj
Sai! Canvass, No. 1, to 8
'Dimities, Ginghams, and Muflinets, in pacKa
ge« suitable for the Weft-hxlia market
Nails ifTorted
Black quart bottles
Queens ware in hhds. and crates
Yellow ochre dry in casks ;
And at New-York, on board the
lhip Diana, from Liverpool, expedled round
as fooi) as the navigation is open,
fine Liverpool Salt
Coals
Spanifti Brown
Venetian Red I
Purple Brown !
Pitent White {
White V id
Red Lead J
Coleothar vitriol
t6o bundles Sheithiflg paper v
Seaming Twine
For Sale or Chatter.
ALSO,
m. firm of Philijf Nicklin 8c Co.
i« now cha»p«d to ,
NICKLIN fc? GRIFFITH.
January I. eotlt^
For Sale or Charter,
goodhope
' y Will carry about tioo barrels, and
Z- -is ready if lake in a cargo. Forterms
•fP'y W r. cj r<
Pragert (s Co.
No. tji, South Second-flreet.
Who have for fale—primr St. Croix Supr
and Kum, Madera, Liftroo, and Teneriffe win.,
November j.
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, APRIL 7, 1798.
On Tuesday, the ioth day of
April next, at 7 o'clock in the evening, at
the City Tavern, Second Street, in the City
of Philadelphia,
WILL be exposed to public fa!?, fevenctcn
trafts or parcels of land situate J in Point
townfliip in the county of Northumberland, and
containing in the whole fix thousand seven hun
dred and sixty-sour acres and three quarters, j
with the ufnal allowance for roads.
Terms of file, 1-3 of the pnrchafe money on j
the execution of the deed, 1-3 in three months, 1
and 1-3 in fix months, in good notes or other ,
approved fecarity.
CONNELLY & Co. Auß.
March 9. iawtii dti-a
For Sale,
By Elliston fcf John Perot, ;
No- 41, North Water Street,
London particular Madeira Wine, in pipes and
quart r calks, 4 year 6 old and fit for immediate use.
Inferior do.
A few bales Allibad Coffes
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Sail Canvais, No. 1, to 0
A few bags of Juniper Berries
A parcel of Soal Leather, and
A few boxes of China. '
march 3 tu3cf4W ;
IMPORTED,
In the Brig Benjamin Franklin, from
Bourdeaux,
AND F'iß. SALD BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
Claret in casks
White wine in half casks
Sweet oil of a superior quality in boxes anugbafkets ■
Lunelle
Sauterne ( Wines in Cases.
Macarty, and (
Medoc j
Thomas Murgatroyd,
No. 11, Walnut Street.
% WHO HAS ON HAND,
Bourdeaux Erandy in pipes latitled
IriHi market 7 -it- • r t0
Medoa, and Sau'erneJ 169 1 ' J drawback
Cherry wine in pipes and quarter caiks
Rota
Pimento in bags
Two trunks of Umbrellas, and
About 40ooLufliels Liverpool Salt.
march 19 mw&ftf
Valuable Property for Sale.
FOR SALE,
THAT well known Estate, called SHREWS
BURY FARM, formerly the residence of
General John Cadwalader, situate on Saflafras Ri
ver, in Kent county, Maryland—containing a
bout 1900 acres of prifne LAND, upwards of 500
of which are in woods. The BuildiHgs are all ex
cellent, and consist of a handsome Dwelling House,
two large Barn* with Cow houses, Stables for fifty
horse*, a fpaeions treading floor under cover, a
granary, two Overseer's houses, two ran
ges of two story buildings for Negroes (one of
them new and of brick), Corn houses, a Smoak
house ,&c. &c,—The whole Estate being nearly
surrounded by water, it requires but little fencing,
and has a good Shad and Herring fifhery. It is
conveniently fit dated for both the Philadelphia and
Baltimore market?, with two landings on a navi
gable rivtr but a short fail from Baltimore. There
is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
thepiemifes; alio, a variety of excellent fruits of
different kinds. The foil is meftly a rich loom.—
The whole will be fold together, or divided into
smaller farms (for which the buildings are conven
iently situated) as may suit the purchaser. The
Stock on said Farm, consisting of Horses, Cattle,
Sheep, See. will also be disposed of.—For further
particulars apply to Georoe Hastings, on the
premises, or to the fubferiber, in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jun.
February 24 aaw6w
Escapes.
■ ■
BROKE ths Prison of Cumberland county, in
New-Jersey, and made their escape, berWecn
1 and 2 o'clock, this mornin ; , two Men, who 1
were convicted of dealing—one of them calls him
felf James Legg. the other Edward Hambleton—-
Legg is a grey-headed Man. about ;o years old, 5 i
feat 8 inches high, thick set, with a remarkable '
large head; Hambleton is abeu*: 26 years old, 5 |
feet, 9 or IO inches high, black hair. Left the i
prison in company with the above described
thieves, a small man, who calk himfolf Matthew |
Morrifon, about 24 years old, 5 feet 6 inches high, |
light hair, fair complexion, fmiies when talking, i;
a wheel-wright by trade Whoever will secure
the thieves in any Gaol in New-Jersey or Pennsyl
vania, (hall b* entitled to receive Ten Dollars for
the old one, Fifteen for the young one, andTwen- ;
ty for Matthew Morrifon
GEORGE BURGIN, Sheriff.
Bridgetown, march 15. 24. —mt&t.^w
Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-flreet.
George Davis,
IMPRESSED with the favors fhewmhim in his
efforts toeftablifh a Store for the sale of Law
Books only, brgs leave to inform the Gentlemen
of the Bar generally throughout the United States,
that in addition to his colle&ion now on hand,
which he supposes to be more extensive, than in
the poffeflion of anyoncptrfon for sale in Ameri
ca, he expe&s daily very large supplies from Lon
don & Dublin, particularly irom th« latter place,
having chiefly confined his importations to those edi
tions, a* being in his opinion equally correal with
the London copies, and well known to be infinite
ly lower charged.
G. D. limiting himfelf, solely to the sale of Law
Book*, it will appear obvious to profeffional gen
tlemen the prrat advantages they havein purchasing
from him, both as to fele&ion and price, of which
the encouragement he has received for fevtralyenrs
past, is the best testimony he can offer.
*r arch 20. 3aw3w
AT LAST.
This Day is Publiflied, by William
Cob be tt,
OPPOSITE CHRIST CHURCH.
7be Democratic Judge,
OR THR
EQUAL LIBERTY of the PRESS,'
As exhibited, explained and expufed, in the
prosecution of
WILLIAM COBBETT,
FOR A TRtTINDID LIBK L «C«f*lT
Tht King of Spain and kis EmbnJf.nlor, Irfore
THOMAS M-KP.ANt
Chk'T Juflice of the State Penr! r y!van:2.-
By Peter Porcupine.
By John Fenno, N°* 119 Cbefnut Street.
FORGERIES.
WHEREAS fpveral forgeries have been commit
ted in this city and New-York andcther olac
es by 3 or 4 men, 2 are now confined in New-York
goal tor life, one of thefn by name Dr. G «nt, ali?s
Smith White ; another by name Dr. Gilb-rt, alias
Lewis; forged a hill of exchange on Nicholas Cook
ot New York with a letter of advice from "MefTrs.
Bcnfon & Ives of I'rovidrnce, they also forg
ed 3 checks in the name of Nicholas t, ook,a!<o 2 checks
in the name of John Ra'hbone—William G>ant is a
bout 24 years old, light complexion, long favored, his
countenance by no means expreflive, but rather filly
or unmeaning; breathes uncommonly hard, and fre
quently heaves a sigh, r-ither thia built, slender convo
lution,has a hacking cough.confiipiptive loyk. wore a
green cloth coat in July '96, has a defeft intone fir both
front teeth, lived sometime clerk with Nicholas Cook
in New-York—Gilberl, alias Lewis is rather tat or
luftvt has a fear over one of his Grant & Gilbert
in June 1796 forged letters ot and
credit so this city,from J. Rathbonc,Nicholas Cook,
Hoyt & Tom, Pell & Mellick, John kathbone's was
well executed, Grant boarded at Mr. Grimes' Tavarn
the Gtorge, corner of Mulberry and Second-street ;
Gilbert in 7th ftrcet, and kept a t>ne horse chaise.
Grant fleptina room with Mr. Robert Bicknell, and
broke open his bureau, while Mr. B. was at Baltimore,
and ftolc a bill of exchange for 120 dollars, from the
figpatuve he forned 2 drafts on the Pennlylyania bank,
da:ed 6 July '96, one for four hundred and forty-two
dollars, and gave it to Mr. Wilcox's black boy to re
etive. the B.ink being shut the boy was taken intocuf
tody bv Mefher a constable, the draft hys at the Mav
01's ofhee ; the o:her draft for 225 dollars was paid
by the B:nk soon in the morning of the 71!) July— on
the 9th, Saturday afternoon,.he received through the
hands of Meflrs. DebauffVe and Goodwin a c raft of
William PrieftmanN, dated 8 'n July on the United
States Bank for 100 dollars. B*»ng too late to receive
it that night, he forged another from the fijoa ureon
the United States Bank tor 446 dollars dated 10th
July, Sunday, which was paid on Monday morning,
early. 13th or 14th July he appeared in a new dirts
new boots, See. and removed to a more retired lodg
ing, at Mrs. Smith's between Arch arid Race-streets,
3 days after, he set out for Virginia Spriogs, but upon
the road he fl-pt ; n a room with a geii'leman and
robbed his faddie bags of some watches for which he
was 'enienced at Baltimore to the wheel b *r*ow, but
lately released, having very good friends in Connecti
cut,—-—Any person who can prove his writing upon
conviftion of the offender, shall receive ico dollars re
' ward, as the United States Bank have ieiufed 10 pay
the money, appiy to William Prietkman, No. 1,5 south
sth-ftreet Philadelphia,
In a few days the 3 checks evidently wrote by the
fame Gra t, 2 gentlemen having fwornto his writing,
will be left at the Mayor's ofhee for infpe&ion.
April 2. 6t. ,
Treasury Department,
March 19, 1798.
NOTIpE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
will be received at the Office of
JL the Secretary of the Treasury until the expi
ration of the i*th day of July next ensuing, for
thefupply of all rations which may be required
for the use of the United States, fromthe firil day of
Qdlober 1798, to the thirtieth day of September
1799, both days inclusive, at the places and within !
the diftri£ hereafter mentioned, viz. At Ofwego;
at Niagara ; at Prefque Isle ; at Michilimackinac ;
at Fort Franklin ;at Pittsburgh ;at Le Beuf; at
Cincinnati; at Greenville; atPicque Town and
Loramie's Store; at Fort Wayne ; at Fort Defi
ance ; at p.ny place below Fort Defiance cn the Mi
ami River to Lake Erie ; at Fort Knox and Oua
tanon on the River Wabafh; at Maflac; at any
place or places on thecaft fide of the River Mifhf
fippi above the mouth of the River Ohio, and up.
on the Illinois River ; at any place orplace9on the
east fide of the Mifiiflippi River below the mouth
of the River Ohio to the southern boundary of the
State of Kentucky, and within the faidStatt; at
Knoxville, Tellico Block House, and at all other
Posts in the State of i ennefTee ; at any place or
places on the east fide of the River Miffiflippi, be
low the southern boundary of the State of Fennef
fee, to the southern boundary of the United States.
If supplies fiiall be required for any posts or
places not mentioned in this notice,all fuchfupplies
shall be furnifhed at prices proportioned to those to
the posts before redted, as may be agreed on be
tween the United States and the contractor.
The rations to be supplied to confik of th* fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour
One pound of beef or twelve ounces of pork
or bacon
Half a jill of rum, brandy or whif-""\
ky, one quart of Salt, two quarts /
of vinegar, two pounds of soap, f nation's
one pound of candlc« j
The rations areto he furniflied in such quantities,
as that there fba.ll at all times during the said term,
be fuificient for the coni'jmption of the troops at
Michilimackinac, Detroit, Niagara, and Ofwego 1
for the term of fix months in advance, and at each
of the other posts, for the term of at least three
months i:» advance, in good and wholcfomc provi
sions, if the fame shall be required. It is t» be un
dcrftood, that the contrader is to be at the ex
pence and rilk of ifTuing the supplies to the troops
at each post, and that all losses faftained by the de
predations of an enemy, or by means of the
troops of the United States, fliallbe paid for at
the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on
the depositions of two or more persons of credita«»
hie charatfters, 2nd the certificate of a commifiion
ed officer, ascertaining the circunxfiances of the
loss and the amount of the articles f#r whieh com
pensation shall be claimed.
The priviledge is reserved to the United States
of requiring that none of the supplies which may
be furnifned under the proposed contrail, shall he
ifilied, until the supplies which have or may be
furnifhed under the contra*ff now in f.Tte have
been consumed.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
m*rch 27. 2awtr> fv
FOK SALiI,
ALL that elegant three Pory Brick House, brick
Kitchen and Lot of Ground situate on the
south weft corner of Fourth and Prune streets,
containing in front on Fourth street 33 feet, and
in on Prune ftre«t 98 feet, to a four feet al
ley intended to be left open with common privi
lege cf the fame.
Also, a two story brick House ami Lot of Ground
situate on the weft fide *>f Fourth street and ad
joining the above, containing in breadth «n Fourth
street 15 feet 6 inches, and in depth y8 feet oa tht
said four feet alley, with the common privileges of
the f«*me.
And aifo, all lhat Lot of Ground situate on the
weft fide of Fourth street and adjoining the la ft
described lot, containing in breadth on Fourth
street 25 feet 6 inches, and in depth on the north
fide 102 feet, thence running south ward 11 feet 6
inches, thence further westward S2 feet, thence
itill further fcuthward 14 feet, and thence by the
Chapel ground 114 feet to Fourth street, with the
common use of the said four feet alley leading in
to Pruqe street The whole will be fold together
if more agreeable to the pvchafer.
For firms, enquire of the fubferiber, at his of
fice, So, lid South Foarthftreet.
ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER.
march 31. 3 »wtf
Thomas if Joshua Fisher,
HAVE FOR SALE,
At No. 5, >ck-ftreet,:iear the Drawl)ridge,
China v. are nankeen dining felts, tc£ and coifec 1
caps and fauccrs
Nankeens, black fattins and taftities
Pun gem cloths, choppah romalls, and bandannoes
China and Kngliih umbrellas,
Together with a general affbrtment of European
Goods— among which are
Scots thread in boxes
6d, Bd. iod. lad and aod. nail*
Shot—T. Crowley steel, Spanifti brown and white
lead
English lcythes 4s to 50 inches
ALSO,
ITI harrellsof kiln riryed Indian corn meal.
A commodious StoreinDock-ftreet,
No. 7, to he let, three stories high, suitable for
any business.
4thmo.srh §tf
Manchefler Goods.
Received by the latest arrivals from Liverpool, se
veral trunks, suitable for the pr:fi-nt and ap
proaching season, which will be fold very
low for cafii or on a (hort credit, viz.
7-8 and 9-8 Printed Calicoes
Fancy Waiftcoating in Marf.illes, &c.
Cotton and silk and cotton Hoficry, Pantaloons,
&c.
A variety of (F.nglifhJ Umbrellas
Nankeens, cotton Hhkfs. Shoe binding,
N. B. A cafe of printed Muflincts, and a trunk
of Pi'llicat Bangalore Handkerchiefs, entitled to
drawback, and very suitable for the
App'y No. 35 South Water and corner of Chef
nut street. 4mo. 4 —slw
Madeira Wine.
A few pipes of remarkably fine Madeira, fit
for immediate use, and at a reduced nrice—For
file by JAMES YARD.
April 4. d2w
Just. Received,
AND FOR SALE BY
IS4AC HARVETyJuN.
(No. 5, South Water Street,)
A Quantity of Georgia Cotton.
ALSO,
Prime Aux-Cayes MolafTes
Raisins in kegs
Sugar in barrels—and
A few tons $f Nicaragua wood.
4th mo. 4th §aw
Just Landing
From the brig Harmony from the Isle of Ffance,
And for fali By
Joseph Anthony & Co.
Lao bales Bourbon cotton of a superior quality
50 bags do. coffee
14 calks do. Indigo
april 3 diot
ROSS SIMSON,
HAVi FOR SALE,
A small invoice of best Triage
COFPUE, in barrels and bags
la bales superior Madraf».Blue Cloths
Carolina Indigo firft quality
A few baies Baftas, Coflas, and a quantity of
Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
™.j itUM.
April 4. §
to beTet\
And pafjejjron given immediately,
Agenteei three story brick House,
N >. 7, North Eighth street,
24 feet front an.-l 55 feet deq>, with a handsome
Garden. Enquire at No. 128 Spruce street.
April 4 §
To the Afflicted with
NERVOUS Disorders, loss of appetite, female
complainfs, debilitated conftifutions, inward
weakncflcs, lownefs of spirits, seminal weaknefle?,
| indigeilion, decayed, weak or relaxed constitutions,
1 pains in the limbs, poverty of blood, finking anx
ieties, and tremors, which so dreadfully affe<st the
weak, the fedeiitary and the delicate, every fymp~
torn of extreme debility, attendant on the indiscre
tions of youth, the confequonces of a difiipated
life excess of pleasure or grief, change of climate,
the immoderate use of tea, spirituous liquors, or
any intemperance ; disorders incident to young
girle and women at a certain period of life—
THE CELEBRATED
Cordial Restorative Balsam,
Is a medicine of absolutely fpecific and unparal
leled virtues, in the speedy and efFe&ual cure of the
above disorders, having flood a trial of many fuc
cefsful years, during which period many have been
restored frohi the brink of the grave.
You'h and age of either sex, are equally the ob
jefls of this Reltorative, and they will uniformly
participate in its falubrions qualities and effects ;
ior whether the system has received a shock, and is
debilitated, from imprudencies or inattention in
the earlier part of li.'e, or is finking under the ad
vance of years, a small quantity of this medicine
will give present relief to, and afford a pleasing
ptofpeA ot returning health and strength, by giv
ing tone to the mufcuiar system and organs of di
getlion, and in a great meaiure renovating the coa
fhtution.
Women at any period of life, may by this medi
cine be freed from the most afßi&ing disorders in
cident to the sex, and at a certain period it is moll
highly ufeful.
The CordiaFßfftorative Balsam is fold genuine
(only) by the proprietor, Dr.JAMCS CHURCH,
at his* medicine store, No i, South Third Hreet,
next Market -reet, Philadelphia; where may be
hac an account of the virtues of th.s Reft?rativ«
and a lift of cures.
April 3 *aw3w
notice
IS hereby given, that the rt«jbfcriber, an insol
vent debtor, confined in the common goal of
the County of Cape May in the state of New-
Jersey, hath prcfentedhis petition to the Judges
of the Inferior Court of Common l'leas, in and
for the said county, praying that they would
attend to hear what c-in be alledged for or a
gjinft his liberation, pursuant to an adl of the
Legislature of this State,entitled (t an a& ior
the relief of insolvent debtors," palled the »6th
day of January i^Sr—And the the said court
did appoint Monday the jf.th day of March
next for the purpose
Court House int'hr Middle Piecing, at eleven
o'clock, in the forenoon of the laid day, of which
hit cteditors are requeftxd to take noiice.
CHARLtS ALLEN.
May, l'cU. ■
Feb. 14 —tawjw
[ Volume XIII.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
March 30 th. 1798.
Public Notice is hereby given,
' I 'HAT by an aft of Congrcf9 paired 011 the
X 19th day of March, 1798, the following
alterations :ind amendments have been made to
the a<st pafied an the 6th July 1797, en
titled " An adl laying duties on stamped vcl
" lum, parchment and paper."
I.
The stamp duties on debentures or certifi
cates for the-drawback of Cutloms or duties on
Imports are repealed.
11.
A discount at the rate of seven and one half
per Centum, will he allowed by the Suptrvifors
or Infpefldrs refpeilively, to any perfont other
than Officers of the Revenue, who miy pur
chase at one time or procure to be fljtnped, any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment or Paper, upon
which the duties Hull amount to Ten .Dol
lars or upwards.
111.
Stamped Paper, wili be provided, and fold at
the rates prescribed by JaV, withouf any addi
tional charge or expense. on account of the
price of Paper ; but for (lamped p arc hment or
Vellum, an additional prce will be demmded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each {kin of Parch- ,
mint, or Two I-Jundied Cents for ea/h (kin of
Vellum of medium size, which may be furhili
ed at the expetifit of the United States and pro
portionally for any lefTer quantity-
Given under my hand, at Philadelphia, the
doy and yeir abo-cemen'.ia-td.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the 'Treajnry.
New Publication.
A Senfblc, Scafonable and "Spirited
ADDRESS,
Written by a Citizen of Philadelphia—entitled,
" What is our Situation ?
What our Profpedts ?"
A few Pages for Americans.
For Sale by WILLIAM YOUNG,
Corner ol Chcfnut and Second ilreets,
And at the Office of the Editor, .119 Chefnut ftr.
f Price three fixteentbs of a dollar)
FxtraA from the above.
4t It is afonijbing to bear the cxpencc ps ivar so often
urged, and by ioell meaning people too, againfl our taking
any measures of felfprefcrvation—fhall we be dcJiroyed t
because ive will not incur the expense of defence. Ftr my
ottrn part, if it is neeejjary I Jhould give one half ps all
I have to save the other, I shall not befit ate to do fo —If
more is requiftte, mtre shall be given ; and if finally, /
tnvfl give up all to preserve my life and liberty, all Jkall be
freely given. The true -wealth of a nation confifls in its
independence and fecuri,'y y and not in accumulating gold to
lie in ufclefs heaps, or enrich the triumph oj a savage con
queror—At a time "when half the "world is racked in dire
convulftons t • when immense countries are desolated and pow
erful nations extirpated, if -we cfcape -with expence only%
\we may deem ourflves very fortunate
april 5 dtf
Twenty Dollars Reward.
THE Store occupied on account of the United
States, back of No. 71, North Water-street
was on the night of the 19th mftant (March) bro
ken open, and the following articles stolen, and
taken therefrom :
Nine pieces Stroud, viz.
-5/4 20 2 Bj uc ftroud single
*378 201 cord _ s
2379 20
2380 20 \
2381 20 \
2382 20 > Two cord.
2383 20i
2384. 20
2385 20 i J
The above reward is offered, for the discovery
of the perpetrators of this robbery, so that they
be apprehended, and made amenable to juflice ;
further reward will be paid, for the recovery of
any part of the goods stolen, ou delivery of tl»e
fame to
JOHN HARRIS,
Keeper Military Stores,
april 2. Iw
israel Morris 1
againfl | Maryland.
Thomas Margatroyd, James Bell, j InChancery,
Marfkall and Benjamin Smith, r March 8,
Executors of Samuel Tucker, | 1798.
deeeafed. J
•"I.'HE objeit of the bill, is for the Complain-
X nant, Israel Morri*, to obtain relief againfl
a judgment on a bond by him executed, on the
31ft day of December, 178:, to the said Samu
el Tucker, for the sum of £■ 200 principal.—
The relief is prayed on the ground, that the
Complainant afiigned, by way of security for
the said money, a bond to him the Complain
ant, executed by Samue! Downing, for the sum
of £ that the fakl Tucker received of the
money due on the said lad mentioned bond the
lum of jC' lo ° and negle&ed to take.steps for
obtaining the residue, until the said Downing
became insolvent.
The bill state? that all the defendants are
now residents of the State. It is therefore, on
his motion, adjudged and ordered, thai he
cause a copy of this order to.be inserted, three
weeks fucceflively, in some newspaper of Phila
delphia, in or near which the defendants reside,
at any time before the firft day of May next,
or served upon each of the defendants general
ly, before the said day ; to the intent that they
have notice of the complainants application to
this court and of the fubflance and objedl of hi?
bill and may be warned to appear here on or
before the third T«cfday in September next, to
(hew cause, wherefore a decree fnouid not pass
as priyed.
Attefi.
SAMUEL HARVEY HOWARD,
Keg. Cur. C?H.
April 3 CO3W
For Sale,
A good situation for a Country Seat,,
Forty acres of Land,
On the OJd York road, within fight of Ger
mantown, end about five mi!e» from the city ;
th* whole being under good fence, and in ex
cellent otSei as pasture ground.
For further information and terms, apply to
John Elliott at his Oilier forthe
sale of Real Eflates, Conveyancing, &e. No. 54,
High-flreet.
4th mo. 3d. tu&futCONGRESS. '
, i
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. 1
1
FRIDAY MARCH 3.
The House being in a Committee of the Whole,
on the hill providing the means of Intercourse
rviih Foreign Nations, and Mr. Nicholas's
ami ndmcnt being under c(moderation ;
Ma- BAYARD.
1 (hall not f.ll'tw th-- example of the gen.
tleman wh'> isjuft fat down (Mr R. Willi
ams) in assigning reasons againlt the vote
which I drffgn- to give, but (hall content
mvfelf in ftrting and maintainingthe giounds
, tipon which I am opposed to the amendment
under consideration. I had thought and
ft iil believe that the principles upon which
gentlemen differ, are well understood; We
do not deny the power of this honfe in the
appropriation of money, nor the difffretion
which they may constitutionally exercise in
fixing the proper amount of a salary for a
minister Plenipotentiary, or for any other
officer employed by the government. On
the other hand, gentlemen who differ from
us, do not contend :hat 9000 dollars per
annum is too great a salary for a m:niller
plenipotentiary, but they fay that no mi
nister is necessary at Berlin or Li(bon, and
therefore they will not appiopriate for their
support. If this house has not a right to
judge of the grade of miinfters, or of the
places at which it is proper to employ them,
no reason will remain,fur our refufing to ap
propriate in the manncrcontemplated by the
bill in its original (hape,
The fir ft que (lion therefore, which natu
rally presents itfe'.f in this discussion, is whe
ther the power of fixing the number and
grade of foreign ministers, belongs in any
degree to this house, or exclusively to the
Executive. \ \
By the constitution, the right of receiv
ing foreign ministers is given to the Presi
dent, nor is there any pretence ijnder which
this house can claim a {hare of that right or
its incidents. The obligation to appoint
foreign ministers may frequently arise from
the communications they make to the pow
er which receives them. The powers there- j
fore tof appointing and receiving feera to me
co-relative, and eflentially to belong to the
fame branch of government.
But the power- of appointing is as ex
pressly given to the President, as the power
of receiving ministers. As ministers, how
ever, cannot be employed abroad, without
money being,appropriated for their support,
as money cannot be appropriated but by
la .v, it is therefore said we may enquire into
the propriety of the appointments before
we -ppropriate.
Sir, I apprehend wherever an of
fice, created by the constitution, or by
law,Ms legaily filled by the President, that
we are Iwrid to provide a reasonable com*
penfition for the officer. The gentleman
turin Pennsylvania, however has told us,
that the<>ffice of foreign minister is created
by ttoe President, and does not exist under
the constitution. This is one ofthofebold
aflcrtions which we so often hear from that
quarter, and intended tp impose upon the
cafy credulity of a part of the house. I
ask ths gentleman whether the power of
creating offices is of an Executive nature ?
And, if not, I beg him to point out to
me the clause in the constitution which in
any cafe gives such a power to the Presi
dent ? But in order to oppose the aflertion,
I will be}-, lew to refer to the provision of
the constitution on the fuhjeft.
[Mr. B. here read the following paffiige
from the; 2d fe£t. of the 2d art. of the cor.
ftitution :—" He," the President, " (hall
nominate, and by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate, (hall appoint ambas
sadors, other public ministers and consuls,
jodgee of the Supreme Court, and all other
officers of the UiWted States tuhofe appoint
ments are r.'.t herein other wife provided Jor,
«. rind which Jhall he ejlaiiijhed by law."']
By this clause it explicitly appears that
the power of appointment extends only to
offices providedby the constitution, or which
afterwards {hould be eftabliftied by law.—
The place ef minister then, is an office cre
ated by the constitution. But it i 3 contend
ed by this gentleman that ministers stand u
pon the fame ground with judges of the Su
preme Court, and, as we had limited the
number of the latter, so we have a right to
restrain the number of theTormer. Now,
Sir, by referring again to the Constitution,
I apprehend I can (hew, that the cases (land
on different grounds, and that there is a
a power gjven to us to interfere in the cafe
of judges, which does not belong to its in
the cafe of ministers.
[Mr. B. here cited the 3d art. of the con
stitution, fedt, 1 ft. as follows:
« The judicial power of the United
States (ball be vested in one Supreme and
fnch inferior ccrurt? as the Congress may
from time to time ef}ub'itb."~\
It appears from this clause, that a su
preme court is provided, but the mode of
its eftablilhment is cxprefsly left to congrufs.
Beside, it is evident from the constitution,
that the framers of it frequently referred to
things as known. As when they provide
in criminal cases that the trial (hall be by
jury, it was understood that the jury (hould
consist of twelve men, and a verdift be the
unanimous opinion of the whole. And so
in thf cafe of the supreme court, that the
number of judges could not be indefinite,
and of consequence muil be limited by
congress. This is certainly not the cafe as
to foreign ministers. Their number can be
r.o more limited than the number of foreign
powers. By lesser.ing the number of inde
pendent nations (which is a work going on
very faft) the constitutional power of the
PreGdent on this fubjetl will be restrained.
If the doctrine be founded, that this
house has a right to refufc to appropriate
for the salary of foreign ministers, I a(k
gentlemen to reconcile it with their admis
sion, that no such right tu refufe exists in
the cafe of the President or judgesA dif-
has been attempted. It is said,
that in the cafe of these olicers, the con
stitution has provided that their compensa
tion shall not be dimini(hed during their con
tinuance in office. But it strongly appears
to me, and I do insist, that by conceding
that in the <;afeof the President and judges
we are bound to appropriate, the whole ar
gument on the other fide is given up. Bc
caufe it allows, that nowithftanding we
have an express power on the fubjeit of ap
propriation, that yet there are cases in which
that power mull be passively exercised, with
out the ufc of the difctetion which it if
strongly contended eflentially bel to it.
And now, fir, as to the distinction be
tween judges and ministers, I beg leave to
remaik, that in the cafe of judges, the pro
vision of the constitution goes only to the
quantum of the salary, and prohibits the di
minution of it during their continuance in
office. But as to the principle that a reason
able compensation shall be allowed, the ca
ses stand on the fame footing. • The only
difference is, that in the cafe of the judge
we have n»t the power of faying the salary
is too great, but we are bound to appropriate
to the last farthing ; whereas, in the cafe
of a minister. we have the right at all times
of. reducing the amount of his pay. Ibe
lieve, fir, it can hardly be denied, that I
when the framers of he constitution creat- j
ed an office, or gave afpower to create one,
and directed the office to be filled by the
President, that they contemplated a reason
able compensation being provided foi the
officef. It was a thing so well liuderltood,
that it would have been folly to have expres
sed it, as great folly as to have provided
that it (hould be the duty of the judges to
I expound the law. And, therefore, Iho d
r that in the cafe of ministers and all other of
t ficers legally appointed, that this house is
bound to concur in an appropriation for a
reasonable compensation. N
In order to maintain their ground, gen
tlemen, on the other fide, have descanted
largely on the fubjecl of checks, and per
t ftiaded themfclves that the right to refufe
l an appropriation in the present cafe, sprung
trom the general spirit of the couftitution,
_ ' which designed that one branch of the go
c ! vernment flioald opperate as a check upon
i another.
| The dodtrine as contended for, has em
' phatically been ftiled an imported doilrine,
but I hope it will not befmuggled into this
r _ house without inspection and examination.
t The cases of checks to be derived from the
t constitution, I apprehend may be classed
under three heads.
1. Where an express power is given to
_ c one branch to control the operations of a
nother. 2. Where a branch of the gov.
r_ ernment exceeds its powers. 3. Where a
general power is given to one branch, and
Jt a substantive power included within the
.. terms of it given to another. Thus, in the
in firft cafe : in the legislature, the senate is a
s cheek upon this house, and this house up
-1(j on the senate, and the President upon both.
fr In the executive, the senate on the Prefi
|(j dent, as to treaties and appointments. And
at in the judiciary, one court upon another.
le Upon the second head, a c?.fe mentioned
I by the gentleman, from Virginia, and mucft
relied on, furnilhes a ftrikitig example. E
j ven the judges, the gentleman said, are a
:o check upon the legislature. This arises
; n from the nature of the legislature, the pow
[•_ ers of which are limited. If the legislature
n transgress the bounds of their authority,
Q f their a£ts are void, and neither the people
nor the judges are bound by them. So if
T£ the President should commission, after an
appointment non-concurred by the senate,
jjj the comtaiffion would be void. And in all
)( j cases where an aft is done without power,
a check may be found wherever we please
| g to look for it. The third cafe which has
„ r been mentioned is, where the general pow
er of one branch is controlled by a particu
r lar power given to another branch. To this
head may be assigned another cafe much re
lied on by the gentleman from Virginia.
to The cafe I refer to, is that of a treaty
made by the President having war for its
_ objedl. 'Now, as the exclusive power to
e . declare war is vested in congress, I have no
j. j hesitation in faying, the President has not
u _ j the power to make a treaty of offenfive and
| defenfive alliance. For though such a pow
le er may fee embraced in the general terms
:o g' vln g t ' le power to make treaties ; yet, as
j the right to declare wai is diftinttly given
n to congress, it must operate as exception
lc j t o the general treaty-making power.
a These are the cases of legitimate checks which
f e occur to me. But an t« the wild ioflrine whirli
u had been contended for, tint wher v»r on-*
branch of government pofiefles any degree of
pnwer, that a discretion neceflarily accompanies
5 " the exercise of it, nolhing I conceive'can he
more dangerous, or have a more diredt tenden
d cy to disorganization. If the principle were af
d ferted by each branch, tie operation? of the go
vernment must cease. The prefiilent m'ght fay,
he was not bound blindly to execute laws which
he conceived to be abfiird or impolitic, We
creates offices, he refufe to fill them ; we ap
'* propriate money, herefufes to apply it ; we de
s. Clare war, he refufes to carry it on, because, con-
I, fulling his own judgment,he conceives our mea
o fures tote unwise, and that it would be better
| e for the country to check us, by refufing the aid
of his constitutional power to carry our febemes
'. iitoeffeft. I beg leave to put a ease which I
conceive ccnifi np to the strongest point of the
[ e argument on the other fide,
o Suppose fongrefs declare war. This can be
ie done by a majority of both houses. The presi
dent participates the power of appropriating
money. Now suppose w;r actually declared,
ty a power competent and expressly sllowed to
ju.lge of its expediency, ind t:.e president after
>e wards conceiving the war to be unjust, or the
i n dedarition premature, rufufes to concur in an
e- appropriation i« fupp. f" it. In such cafe, we
m (hould be conflitutionally at war, and conltitu
le ticnally retrained from carrying it on.
Such are the absurdities which fl w Tro.-n the
imported doSrine of cheik.. Conii quences
which tend to pa a ize 'he powers of theconfti
tution, and effVilually tp the wheels of go
lk vernment.
f- I have no doubt, Sir, for my own pift, that
in this hoi fe has no right to interfere upon the prin
f_ ciplc of the amendoKUt ; but I wili» notwith-
Rinding, 1-Tififlcr tfce txpcdit nty as the tnca- o
sure it contemplates. b
It his been contended bv the gentleman from t<
Pennsylvania, that it would he better for this d
country to renounce all foreign interconrfe —
This, I conceive, is g ing far beyond any point- o
of difcuflion before the committee. The amend- b
mrnt if not designed to abolifti forrien inter- b
course. It supposes three minifies plenipoten- vl
tiary.and as many ministers rrfident and confals •<
as the president (hall think pr iper to appoint. P
Indeed it effeXs only th« grade of the ministers b
at Lisbon and Berlin. °
Sir, I could have wilhed to avoid anv imputa
tion upon the motives which produced tni pre- c
feiit amendment. But it strikes me as Angular 11
that gentlemen (hould be fatUfied with reltrain- °
ing its operation tMwoehiraXers, anil that furh "
miphty efforts (hotild be made to accompliftl an 0
o'>jrX attended with so little saving to the trea n
fury, am! at- b-ft equivocal, as they must ac- r
as to its operation abroad. I can
not « «!l account for what I have 4e?n, but in re- f
colleXingthat the minister at L'.ibon *» for- T
nierlv a distinguiShed member of this house, £
» hole eminent talents having been employed in j
the frpport of government, has rendered him oh i v
noxious to the friends of the amendment ; and ! a
that the minister at Berlin is the son of the Pre- j 1
li lent of the United States, a man as much hat- j
ed by one party as venerated by the other. I
(honld have been wi ling to have difearue-d any , 15
fttfpuions which theie recolleXions occaftoned, j
h.id I been able to discover any pla'ufible reason ' *
j at ■ his time for introducing and foftrongly m iin- ;
! taining the amendment.
Gentlemen have talked of annihilating foreign I
intercourse. D» they call to tnind our sea coast
of 1700 miles ? Do they remtm! er the commer
cial temper and Habits of our people ? Do they j
recolleX how mny imported articles, though
perhaps once luxuries, are now become neeeffa
ries of life ? Do they calculstt the portion of (
our food and raiment whi his l>ro :gtit a.oofs •
the ocean ? Can they fit down to a meal in the , '
day, or examine the cloths on th.-ir backs, with
out being sensible of the strength of our foreign
connexions ? I beg gentlemen, after having (
duly appreciated these cenfidera'ions, to tell
whether the) ferioully imagine that any force
in the government could break owr connexion
with foreign countries ? I believe, for my pan,
that while the ocean is navigable, that our peo
ple will be commercial, and that foreign con
nexions 1 annot prevented. The only quef
tio i which seems to ejeift is, whether, as tiieif
will be interconrfe with foreign countries; it
does not admit of beneficial regulations from the
interference of government.
The gentleman from Pennfylvaniahas consid
ered this ftibjeX under two heads, commercial
and political, and has endeavoured to (hew, that
our connexions with Europe, commercial or
political, do not require a diplomatic eftablilh
ment.
Commercial intercourse, he continues, might
be as well regulated and prottXcd by the em
ployment of consuls as of ministers. Very little
consideration, I apprehend, will fatisfy gentle
men, that consuls jre inadequate to the proteX
ion of the commerce of a great c untry. Con
suls are litt.'e more than private mercantile a
gents. They are frequently the fubjeXs of the
country in which they are stationed, fubjeX to
its laws, 3i well in civil as in criminal cases, not
privileged, and scarcely noticed by the law of
nations, and leprcfentingr in no degree, the
country which employs them. I will then alk,
if consuls are compete.tt to insist upon the rights
of the nation, or its citizens, or to remonstrate
against their wrongs. Whether they could de
mand, or are so likely to obtain justice, as it they
were cloa-thed with a representative capacity of
the country. Beside, let me tell the gentleman,
that if our eftablifhmems abroad were reduced
'to consuls. in esseX, they would only have fo
reign ministers under new names, for they
would soon be employed for political, as well as
commercial purposes. It would end in their
exerciflng the powers of ministers, without their
refpoafibility.
I'hi- gentleman from Pennsylvania has said,
that the only use of ministers is to form treaties.
This ia certainly not true. I conceive that a
government is bound to extend its eare and pro
teXion to its citizens abroad, as well as at home.
One purpose, therefore, of ministers is, to fscure
to our citizens in so eign countries, the rights
which they derived from treaties, or the law of
j nations. .They are designed also to watch the
aXions of foreign governments, and to discover
' their schemes, and to give notice to their own
: government of any thing which'may threaten
i the peace or fafety of their country. They are
again the organ of communication between go
vemments, by wlfich explanations are demand
ed," and by which accidental differences may
frequently be avoided without the extremity of
war.
(Tbit Speech to be continued. J
Friday, yVpril 6.
Mr. SITGREAVES, on behalf of the
managers of the impeachment against
William Blount, to whom was referred cer
tain proceedings of the Senate of the firj of
March, reported it as their opinion, that it
wo jld be expedient for the house to adopj the
following resolutions :
" Resolved, That a conference be desired with
the Senate on the fubjeX of their resolution tof the
firft of March last, relative to the impeachment of
William Blount, and that the managers appointed to
conduct the faid'impeachment, be the managers for
this house a the propefed conference."
" Resolved, That the managers of this house do
request, at the said conferenc , that the Senate will
appoint a day during the present session of Congress,
for the return of the summons directed by their re
solution of the iirft of March aforefaid, to be issued
to the said William Blount."
The resolutions were agreed to.
The Speaker laid before tha house a letter
from the Secretary of the Treasury, accom
panying- two statements, exhibiting the ton
nage of shipping belonging to the several dis
tricts of the United States, at the close of the
year 1796; also, a comparative view of the
tonnage of all veft'els which paid duties in the
por;s of the United States each year, from 1790
to 1796, inclusively, diftinguilhing generally,
the employments of the vell'els of the United
States, and the tonnage of vell'els belonging
to different foreign nations, in pursuance of a
resolution of the 4th inft. which was ordered
to be printed.
Mr. Sitg re av es asked and obtained leave
of absence for the next week.
Mr. Kittera also obtained leave of ab
sence for two weeks.
Mr. D. Foster, from the committee of.
claims, made a report on the petition of Ste
phen Dayton, dating that an unfavourable re
port was made upon this cafe in «793, by the
Secretary of war, to which they reier, and to
which they recommend an agreement. Con
curred in, ,
Mr. Macon moved that the house again
resume the consideration of the confidential
communication fronv the President, which
motion being agreed to, the galleiies w«re ac
cordingly cleared.
.After the doors had been closed about an
hour and a half they were opened ; whrp
Mr. Livingston, from the committee to
whom was re-committed the bill fcr the relief"
of sick and disabled seamen, reported a new < a
bill, conformable to the amendments hereto- j i
fore adopted, which was committed for MOll- I
day. |-
The fame gentleftian front the committee j
of commerce apd manufactures, reported a
bill for erecting a light house and placing r
buoys at the places therein mentioned, which {
was committed for Monday. This bill con- t
templates the erection of a light houle at Old 1
Point Comfort, in Virginia, the placing of 1
buoys in Portland and the ftak'ng 1
out of Warren river. 1
The house fevera'ilv refolded itfelf into a
committee of the whole on the bill declaring (
the assent of Congress to two ads of the state t
of North-Carolina therein mentioned, and the
bill authorizing certain officers to prefcr.be 1
oaths, which were reported without amend- f
ment, and ordered to be engrossed lor a third t
reading oh Monday. , . 1
Mr- Bayard moved that noo copies of I
the dispatches from ourComm llioners in Pa- 1
ris, which were lately com.niin cated by the 1
Prelident of the United States, to Congrels, i I
i be printed for the use of members, which J
| would fiir iifh each about twelve copies for I
ahe puYpofie of tranfinitting to his conftitti- I
j ents.
' Mr; S. Smith moved to amend the refo
-1 lution, by adding after the words ' Congress,'
ami ordered by the Senate tt be publijbed.
Mr. D-nt thought ftic h an amendment
L would be v.ery improper, as the house had 110
; official knowledge of what the Senate had
j done with rclpect to these dispatches.
Mr. Nicholas wilhed to know whether
this resolution for printing was in order, as it
was in effect the fame with that 011 the pro
priety of publishing the papers decided,
vvhild the doors wera closed, to be postponed
till Monday.
The Speaker said a diftinftion had hereto
! fore been made been made betwixt printing and
I publtjhing. He recollected this diStintlfon was
; ailed upon in the confidential bitftnefs relative
to the Algerine treaty.
Mr. Gallatin could not fee any distinc
tion betwixt publijhing and printing 1 zoo copies
of the dispatches in question, elpecially as
gentlemen state them to be wanted tor the
purp' "t of fending to their constituents. He
fliould be in favour of printing for the mem
bers' own life, as was done in the cale alluded
to by the Speaker, but not for publication, as
that motion had already been postponed till
Monday.
Mr. Brooxs was surprized, when the
: injunXlon of ficiecy was taken off, that gen
tlemen (hould Still be opposed to ti»e printing
' of these papers. Any person might now print
them ; and it was proper, whatever differences
' of opinion had been expteffed as to their pub
r lication heretofore, that they (hould now be
" made as public as possible. If gentlemen are
afraid of making them public, and wish to
: confine them in the dark, or to Philadelphia
" alone, they act rightly in opposing the print
e -ing ;■ but he hoped the motion would be car
" ried.
Mr. T. Claiborne moved a postpone
- ment of the question, which was negatived
- 42 to 32.
e Mr. Blount always thought it improper
0 to print more copies of any papers than were
't neueffary for the use of the members in con
s dutting the business of the house. When
e members wi(h to fend papers to their confti
, tuents, they can putchafe what number of
s copies theyyleale ; for if he were to have 12
e copies laid upon his desk, he (hould have oe
- caiion to purchase 20 or 30 more, ferthe pur
y pofeof fufficiently communicating the matter
if to his constituents.
1, The question on Mr. S. Smith's amendment
d was put and negatived.
>- Mr. Brooks did not fee why members
y (hould be put to the expence of purchasing
is what it would be for the public good to cir
ri- culate He therefore moved for 2000.
ir Mr. Thatcher seconded the motion, in
order to oblige the gentleman from N. Caro
1, lina (Mr. Blount).
5. Mr. H,\RPER-was in favour of the 2000,
a and if any one would move 3000, he should
j- be in favour of it, as he Should with to fend
e. a good number to his constituents.
■ e Mr. Shepard hoped less than 2000 would
ts not be printed.
3 f Mr. Hartley thought, after the motion
e for publication had been postponed tiil Mon
!r day, gentlemen ought to have been fatisfied
n with , having the usual number of copies
n printed.
re Mr. Gallatin said when he was up be
, fore hehad made lpme observations on the dif
[. tinftion which the Speaker had dated as sub-
Sifting betwixt printing and publishing ; but
it appeared as if the gentleman from New
York (Mr. Brooks) had neither attended to
what he had said, nor to what fell from the
chair, when he made a kind of reply. It he
had, he would have feenthat thofeobfervati
ons did not go to the question of publifhrng or
j not ; but to a point of order. It would be re-
J. I collected that the publication of thele papers
J had been opposed, not because they wished
j to prevent. their publication, because they
t ' e knew, though not officially, that the Senate
1 had ordered 500 copies to be printed ; but it
t j i had been opposed, because gentlemen did not
he wi(h to take upon themselves the refponfibili
£ ty of the publication. The question was
to therefore postponed till Monday. Mr. G.
or said his objeXion to this motion was, because
*' he conlidered it to be the fame motion which
j 0 had been postponed, only in a different form.
;U If this motion Should be proposed on Mon
fß . day, after the Senate have publi(hed the cor
■e_ refpondence, he (hould not objefl to it. A
ed large majority (of which he was one) were
opposed to the publication of these papers,
not 011 the ground of any eff'eX they would
er produce on the citizens of this country, but
1. i from an idea that they ought not to be pub
-- ! lilhed before we know the final ifl'ue of our
(- \ negociation. He believed that every gentle
ie j man who opposed thepublication,would have
i e ; wifned it, if the publication could have been
!e ; confined to our own citizens. He thought it
jo ; improper, therefore, that a contrary motive
y t 1 (hould be attributed to them.
»d Mr. Brooks explained,
ig Mr. Findley said the diftinXion was ve
a rycliar betwixt printing a paper in confidence
:d and printing it for the purpose of fending to
their constituents.
Mr. J. Williams said, since they had
taken off the secrecy from the confideration'of
j. the l'ubjeft before them, he thought it mat
tered little whether 500 or 2000 copies of the
of. papers were printed ; but if as many were to
e. be printed as each member wanted for his con-
E- Stituents, at least 3000 would he wanted, as
ie he represented at least 30 towns, and he could
:o not fend less than one to each. As to the
i- expence, he believed an hour's debate would
colt more than the whole 3000 copies,
in Mr. M'Dowell said, tlusquellion was the
al fame as that which had been postponed till
h Monday. He was sorry Hie motion for post
ponement was carried, because the fame thing
is now attempted to be done indireftly, which
in could not be effefted in a direst way. He
supposed on Monday the House would receive
to from the Senate the usual number of copies;
ef he hoped therefore the House would adjourn,
as there was na immediate occasion for print
ing.
The uftial motion for adjourning till Mon
day being firft decided, the mution for ad
journment was )>ut and negatived, 44t0 37.
Mr. Lyon was in favour of the largest
number; and if he followed the rule of the
gentleman from New-York, he might wish
for 7000, as he represented 70 towns. But
his principal reason for voting fir the largest
number was, because he thought the papers
so triflng and unimportant, that no printer
would n(k the printing of thetn in a pamph
let ; and it would take a fnjall weekly paper,
such as was printed io his diftridt, two months
to print them, if nothing el(e were inserted.
Mr. Macon said, in to give
so much information, they would give none ;
for if the number proposed to be sent were to
be forwarded, he (hould expeit 10 hear of the
mail'being broken down. He hoped the-u
---fiul number would only be printed. He had
1*) objection to the publication; biU he did
not expect the question would have been
bro>ighr forward to-day.
Mr. Oris enquired whether the gentleman
from Vermont had not said these papers were
so trifling and unimportant, that no printer
would undertake to print them.
Mr I,yon repeated what he had said.
Mr. (j 1 lps moved to adjburn. The moti
on was negatived 43 to 36.
Mr. Ch \mp i.in was afionifhed at theoppo
fition made to the publication of the dispatch
es [The Speaker reminded Mr. C. that the
qVielßon was as to the number to be printed."]
He was surprised that any objetlion Ihouid be
made to the number, especially as the addi
tional expence could be no objett. He tho't
it proper they (hould (peedily be pubjiftied ui_
order to do away the falfe hnpreiliqjM which
erroneous publications may have produced.
He did not underltand how gentlemen could
reconcile their wi(h for publicity, with their
opposition to the proposed publication.
The question waa firft taken for 3000 copies,
and negatived, there being only 14 for it;
then on jooo, and negatived 42 to 3S.
Mr. Tillinghast then moved for an ad
journment, which was negatived, there be
ing only 27 for it.
The question then returned on 1200.
Mr. Macon moved to strike out 1200, and
insert the usual number ; which after some
observations from Mr. Bayard in favour of
having 1200 copies, was negatived.
The question tvas then put and carried on
iioo. Adjourned till Monday.
From the New-Tori Commercial jidvertifer.
T"HE STAN D—No. 11.
The description of vice, by a celebrat
ed poet, may aptly be epplied to the revo
lution art government of France. It is
——A monster of such horrid mien,
As to be bated, needs but to be 'seen."
Unfortunately, however, for mankind, a
species of moral pestilence has so far difor-
dered the mental eye of a considerable por
tion of it, as to prevent a diftinft a view of
. the deformities of this prodigy of human
wickedness and folly. It is the misfortune
I of this country in particular, that too ma
ny among its citizens have seen the monster
f in all its dreadful transformations with com
placency or toleration. Nor is it among
the least of the contradictions -of the hu<
r man mind, that a religious, moral and sober
people (hould have regarded wrth indulgence
t so frightful a volcano of atheism, depravity
and absurdity ; that a gentle and humane
s people (hould have viewed without deleftati
' on, so hateful an s inftrument of cruelty and
blood(hed ; that a people having an enlight
n ened and ardent attachment to genuine lib
erty, (hould have contemplated without hor
ror so tremendous an engine of despotism
j' and slavery. The film indeed begins to be
j removed, but the vision of many of those
"who have been under its influence is not yet
d restored to the necessary ?nergy or, clear
ness.
II It is of the last importance to our nati-
onal fafety and welfare, that the remaining
s obictirity (hould be speedily dispelled. Till
this shall be the cafe, we (hall stand on the
Urink of of a precipice.
To exhibit the hydra in all its horrible
' pre-eminence of guiltjrand mifchief, would
J require volumes. Slight (ketches chiefly to
pourtray its chara&er in reference to other
e nations, are all that will comport with the
e plan of these papers.
In retracing the progress of a war which
r has immersed Europe in blood and calamity,
it is an error as common as it is strange, to
acquit France of refponfitility, and throw
f the whole blame upon her adversaries.. This
t is a principal source of the indulgence which
t is (hewn to the extravagances and enormities
1 of her revolution. And yet the plained
fa£ts demonstrate, that the reverse of this
supposition is far more agreeable to truth.
e It required all the bold imposing pretences
h of the demagogues of France, all the docile
1. partiality of a warm admiration for her re
- volution, to have secured a moment's success
* to so glaring a deception.
e The origin of the war is ufnally charged
. to the treaty of Pilnitx, and to the counter*
d revolutionary projefts of the'parties tb it.
t To this day we are without authentic and
- accurate evidence of the nature of that trea
r ty. Taking its existence for granted, there
~ is not the least proof that it compfbhended
i, any other powers than /luftria, Prujfia aiid
t Sardinia.* Beyond these, therefore, un
e less suspicion be substituted for fad, it
could not afford even a pretext for hostility.
It is likewise certain,f that after the date
e afligned to the treaty of Pilnitx, the Em
-0 peror, who was the reputed head of the
confederacy, gave strong proof of the re
d nunciation of its objeft, if hostile to the re
s volution ; by fignifying, through his minis
ters, to all the foreign courts, his determi
-0 nation to acquiesce in the conftitutiou of
1792, accepted by Louis the XVI.
s The diplomatic correspondence between
1 France and /lujlria, which preceded the
' rupture, evinses that the treaty of Pilnitr.
was not the caule of the war, for it is not
e even mentioned. The immediate ostensible
I cause, as it there appears, was the (efufal
. of Austria to difarra in Compliance with the
r peremptory demand of France ; a demand
I ' ~~ /
/ am not certain that ever Sardinia tvas a party*
Writing frtm memory some minute circutnfanco may bt
; mijlated.
, f See State pa**- by Dcbrcuto which this, apparently, very rcjfonah'e i
reply was given—that France had previotif- J
ly armed to a greiter extent ; and that Auf- (
tria could not faftly reduce her Force while j
France remained in so diftilrhed and inflam* j
ed a (late as to leave her neighbors every mo- i
ment exposed to the enterprises of h£r revo- j
lutionary fervor. There is no absolute cri- (
terion by which it can be pronounced w'ne- I
ther this reply was merely a pretext, or the '
dictate of 3 feriotis apprebf nfion. But it is ,
certain th*t the correspondence difcovjrs
great appearance of candor an J modention I
on thetpart of the Imperial cabinet ; and it ,
is not to be denied, that the state of effer
vefctnce of the French nation at this junc
ture furniiheJ real cause of alarm to the
neighboring governments.
It is then at belt, problematical, whether
France in declaring war, as (he did at the
fame time against AuHria and Prvjfia, was
afbiatcd by the convi&on that it was Beceff
ary toanticipate anddifconcert the unfriend
ly views of those powers ;or whether the
war, as has been suggested with great pro
bability, was fought by the republicans par
ty as a mean of«mbarrafling the executive
government, and paving the Way for the
overthrow of the royalty. Two things, well
e(l»yi(hed, are inftrti&iveon this point. The j
tine, that the icing was driven against his
wiiTi, by a ministry forced upon him by the
popular party, to propose the declaration of
war, he cbnfidered as the tomb of
his family—the other, that Brissot, the
head of the then prevailiog fafti'on, fame
time .ifterwards exultingly buafted, th.St "
but for this war the revolution of the tenth of
Augnfl would never have taken place ; that but
for this war, France <u>oit!d never have been
a republic* 3
Admitting, nevertheless, that the true
source of the war with Austria and Prnfiia
is inveloped in some obfeurity, there is none
as to the wars in whieh France beewne sub
sequently engaged. It is clear as to them
that (he was the original aggreflbr.
It appeared from cotemporary testimony
lhatone of the 'rfta&sof that alfembly which
dethroned the king, was in a paroxilm of
revolutionary frenzy, to declare kfelf" A
COMMITTEEOFINSURRS.CTION ofthe whole
human race, for the putpofe of overturning
all exiftinggovernmeni."—This extravagant
declaration surpasses any thing to be fo>nd
in the ample record of human maflnefs. It
amounted to an aft of hoftihty against man
kind. The republic of America, no less
than the despotism ef Turkey, was included
in the anathema. It breathed that wild and
exceflive spirit of fanaticifm, which would
scruple no means of eftablilhing its favorite
tenets ; and which, in its avowed objeft,
threatening the diforganizationof all govern
ments, warranted a uiiverfal combination to
destroy the raonftrous system of which it
was the foul.
The decrees of the -19 th of November
and 15th December 1792, were modifica
tions of the tame spirit. firft offered
fraternity and afliftance to every prople who
(hould wifli to recover their liberty, and
charged the executive power ta fend orders
to their generals to give that afliftance, and
to defend those citizens who had been or
might be vexed for the caule of liberty.
The last declared that the French nation
would treat as enemies any petple who, re
filling or renouncing liberty and equality, were
deiirous of preftruing, recalling or entering
into accommodation with their prince and
privileged cajls.
The firft was a general signal, to in-
and Revolt. It was an invitation
to the seditious of every country, in pur
suit of chimerical schemes of more perfeft
liberty, to confp'ire under the patronage of
France against the eftsbiiflied government,
however free. To assist a people in a rea
fojrable and virtuous, struggle for liberty, al
ready begun, is both juftifiable and lauda
ble ; hut to incite to revolution every where,
by indiscriminate offers of ailiftance before
hand, is to invade and endanger the foun
dations of social tranquility. There is no
term of reproach or execration too strong
for so flagitious an'attempt.
The last of the two decrees is not merely
in fprtit—it Is in terms equivalent to a man
ifefto of war against every nation having a
prince or nobility. It declares explicitly
and formally, that the French nation will
treat as enemies every people, who may desire
to preserve or restore a government of that
charadkr. ,
Iris impofiible not to feel the utmost in
dignation against so presumptuous and so
odious a measure. It was not only to scat
ter the embers of a general conflagration in
Europe—it was to interfere coercively in
the interior arrangements of other nations
—it was to di&ate to them, under the pe
nalty of the vengeance of France, what
form of government they should live under
—it was to forbid them to pursue their po
litical happiness in their own way—it was
to set.up the worst of all despotisms, a des
potism over opinion, not against one nation
but agarnft almost all nations. With what
propriety is the interference of the powers,
ultimately coalesced against France, in her
interior arrangements, imputed to them as
an. unpardonable crime, when her leaders
had given To terrible an example, and had
provoked retaliation as a mean of felf-pre
fervation
These decree* preceded the tranfa&iont which
immediately led to a rupture between France & the
other power®, Anuria and Pruflia «xcepted.
It is idle to pretend, that they did not furnifh
to those porrers just caufo of war- There is no
rule of public law better established or on better
grounds, than that when one n tion unequivocally
avows maxims of coodu& dangerous to the secu
rity and tranquility of others, they have a right to
aetaaii her, and to endeavor to disable her from
• If it be true, ms pretended, that Aufria and Pruf
jfnftrj} interfered in tbis way with Frante % it was no plea
ftr ber to retaliate on mil the rejl of Etrrofte. Great Bri
tain tn particular, at far at fppeart, bad tbferved a fair
neutrality. Yet the principle of the French decree was
emphatically pointed against ber, by the open reception of
deputations, of malcontenti and pullic declaration) to iftem
•t hehdf of the French avozning the d fire
of feeing all tbronet overturned, of a National Conven
tion and a Republican revolution in England.
c 1 carrying hefr schemes inro etfe&. They are not
[_ j boy.'d to wat tiil inimical dejagos arc matured for !
p 1 aclioji, v hen it may be too iate to defeat them. !
How far it may have been wife in a particular
c I government »o have taken up the pauntlet, or il •
l* I ir. its option, to have left France to the ferment*, !
j t:ons of the pernicious principles by which its lea-
j ders were adluatwd, is a qucUion of mere expoui
j | diftinA from the right. It is also a
J cated and diflico'.t quefti »n— one which able and
j u priffht men niight decide different ways. iJut
e 'the right is dill indifputablc. ihe moment the
[-3 ( cor.ven?ion vomited forth those venomous decrees,
3 all the governments threatened were ju iifiable in
| war upon France.
NeirWr they bound to be with
lC j after explanations or qualifications of the rrinci
r- p'es which hail been declared. They had a nght
to judge conscientiously whether reliance could be
placed on any pretended change of system, in-V
to ail accordingly. And while the power of
Frxnce remained in the fame men, who had dif
■t* covered iuch hostile viev/s, and while the effer- 1
ie vefcence of the pu lie mind continu- dat its height, i
, s there could not have been, in th" nature of things,
any security in effurances of greater moderation '
Fanatieifm is a spirit equally fraudulent and in ■
tradl'.ibie. Fanatics may the bett r to '
ie effect their alias, bjit thr;y ft fvildt.nly reform.
No faith is due to the reiormatijn wfck"'i they may
r _ affedt, u. lefi it has beeri the work of time and
expcriencj.
But whether a wrong or a right ele&ion in point
)e of expediency, may h: b?cn m.i:!«iby aM or ary
11 j of the powrrs, which a'tcr the pjfli: v of those J.-- 1
ie j cree» became engaged in fcol'ilicy with France, it
j s I iinot the ltfM ttuc v that her govermftent was the
J aggreflorj und is pr mariiy chargeable with
the evils which h :ve followed. Fhis conclusion is
greatly sided by the ftrikirg fait, that it was !
:T Frtncc which declared war, rot only against Aaf
)e tria and Pruflia, but againit England, Spain, Sar
)e di.iia and Ho!la»d.
it Two v ry impor ant inferences result from the
fa&s which have been prefented—or.e, that in
°f blowing up the dreadful flame whiclrhas aver
lt Whelmed Europe in misfortune, France is the par
ty principally culpable—th« othar, that the pro
minent original featare of htr revolution is the spi
rit of profelytifm, erthedeGffe of ne-.v niouelling
\the political inftijution of the r:ft ef the world
•3 according to her ftandird. The course of thr re
le volition also demonstrates that w luatever change
3_ of fyllem may have been at any time oretendeit,
or however the fyfleni may in particular inilances
have yielded to a temporary policy;—it has con
tiiiutd in the main to givers the conduct of the
'y parties who have fucceifivdy triumphed and ty
:h raniztd. TITUS MANLIUS.
of
t\ From the Middlesex G.izctte.
Ie
lg MR. DUNNING,
nt I perceive by your two last papers, that
id the Jacobins in this part of the Hate, have
It grown very busy about the politics of the
n- country. It is very obvious what they
•fs would be at. The time approaches when
•d we rauft make a nomination for reprefenta
id tives in Congress. In order to fright«n us
Id into their schemes, they tell us that the com
te neftion between the United States and
3;, France mud be broken up, unless we will
n- consent to lick the dust at the feet of our
to Si/ler Republic, as Ihe used to be pleased to
it call herfelf. It is beyond controversy, that
there is a co-operation between the French
er government and the anti-federalifts in this
a- country. The treatment which our Com
td miflioners have received, clearly proves
10 thisfaft. They have probably been waiting
id to feel the pulse of the present Congress, in
rs 6rder to determine what to prescribe to «s ;
id and taking encouragement from the appear
or ance of" their party, have treated our envoys
y. with great infolencd and difgraee. We have
31, not many democrats in this state, and what
■ e _ there are, generally, 3re very infigniScant
rc creatures. But they are breaking out in all
ig the newspapers at once, in order to make
[id , us believe that the people at large are uneasy
with the government, and ripe for sedition.
n _ For this purpose, as a most important step,
3n and without which they know they can do
r _ nothing, they are addrefiing themselves to
ft the Farmers, if poflible to excite among
of j them jealoufies and clamours, a
t, j gainst the measures of government, and e
■a. ; specially against our own leprefentatives.—
| Before the landed interest, which i> the
| a _ j strength and liability of our government,
- e> will pay any attention to fuchan incendiary
ITe as. wrote a long piece addrefTeJ to the farm
n- ers, in your last paper, they will certainly
no pause, and make a few enquiries of them
:ig selves. Perhaps those enquiries may be like
the following :
'y ift. What is this government, which we*
n- are told is about to cru/h and enslave us ?
; a We formed a Constitution a few years iince,
jy and adopted it. We very soon found the
if benefit of it Our farms were will cultivat
re ed, because we had nothing else to attend
iat to—they produced plentifully, because they
were well cultivated, and becault God blell
n- the labors of honest iaduftry—this produce
brought us a good price, and ready pay,
lf - because our country was at peace, and our
ln merchants flourilhed—with the avails we
ln paid our trifling taxes, supported and edu
-113 cated our families—difcharged what little
•e- debts we owed, and laid up fometlung eve
at ry year. From whence then this noise a
er bout oppression ? This outcry against the
o- government ? The government is the fame,
as What does it all mean ? Did not a party
"f- spring up a few -years ago, ahd do all in
30 their power to make us join the Freneh and
at fight half Europe ?, We flill recolleft it.—
' s » Who were of this party ! The newspapers
er told ( us a good many names which we have
a ' not yet forgotten. Have not these people
rs been difappoiuted in their plan ? Yes. Our
id government, bad as it is, has kept us out
e ~ »f war yet. Are not the fame perform, who
have all along endeavored to make us join
France, the lame who are now preaching
to us, that we are upon the point of being
;(h enslaved ?
n ° r 2nd- Who are the people whs have been
11 so long trying totrufii us, and bntigusun-
U- dera king ? was it George Wasainoton .'
to He was at the head of our government eight
m years, and bid out the p»ih which his fuc
ccfiors are following. We-have always
f thought better of him. He always appear
ed to love his country, and did more for it
:ir than any other man. But it is fiid our own
■as representatives joined in the scheme.
"f Who are these representatives ? did sny of
them come from Geneva,- or lieland, or
France? Were they not born, and educat
ed in the coontry among ourfplves ; and
hare thiy not families, relations, frtendj,
and neighbors, which mtift all enfLved,
as well as we J Fur how long a tirxe are
they chosen ? Two years. What will be
come of tbem then ? They siiill come home,
and be enslaved with the reft of us. We
are well acquainted with our r*prefetitatives,
did we ever hear them fay any thing about
introducing kings into the country ?
3d. Why is it we are so often reniindeJ
of France I What is France to us i Will
the French buy our country produce, and
pay for it when-they have done ? Do they
(hew any disposition to pay our merchants
for ail the veflels and cargoes which they
have plundered from thetn J If we form an
alliance with them what may we expeft ?
Have not all the nations in Europe, with
whom have had much connexion, been o
verwhe'imcd, pillaged, and destroyed ? Is it
not a strange tiling in the world that in this
country it (hould not only be no offence to
abuse, villify and flandtfr OHr own govern
ment, and countrymen, but that it (hould
be deemed meritorious ; -but if any man
dares to speak against the French, even for
their haughty, proud spirit, their depreda
tions, their bloodlhed, and all their other
monstrous cruelties, he is abused, infill ted,
and perhaps beaten.? I might a(k questions
much.longer, but at present I will forbear.
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
FRANCE.
COUNCIL OF FIVE HUNDRED.
January 21.
The membeis met at two o'clock in the
new hall built for the council in the PaVais
dk' la revolution, formerly called Palais
Bourbon.
The interior of the hall offers a semi-cir
cle, around which the feats of the deputies
rife in foi'm of ati amphitheatre : the latter
are bordered by a co'.onade of the lonian
order, of white speckled stucco, and of an
elegant design, behind which are the galle
ries for the fpc&ators. This colonade sup
ports a dome* wherein are large niches and
within t.hefe the rnoft celebrated legislators
of antiquity and /cveral emblems of liberty
and equality are painted. There are no
windows in the hall, but fufficient light en
ter? by an opening at the top of the dome.
The whole interior of the hall is sncruft
ed with green stucco, reletabling that kind
of marble called Verde Antico. The doors
are of mahogany wood.
The bureau (the place where the Presi
dent and secretary lit) may pass for a mas
terpiece. It is placed in the centre of the
semi-circle. The interval between the bal
luftrade and the rostrum forms a superb vef
tuible of'mofaic-, and precious marble.
The rostrum and the bureau, as well as
the steps which lead thereto, aic of speck
led marble, and the whole is adorned with
several statues and emblems of white marble
of exquisite workmanship. In the front of
the rostrum, attrafts more particularly the
eye, a figure of history with her pencil,
and renown preparing to found her trumpet.
Between these figures rises a zocle bearing
the figure of Liberty and that of Janus.
Tile deflc which has almoit the ferm of a
cube, is of the fineft mahogany j the tabic
is supported by four gildfd carriathides,
The chair of the Prefidpnt is likewise of
mahogany, and its borders gilded. A ve
ry fine drapery of green marble and of an
antique form adorns the circular purlieu,
where the bureau is placed.
This hall, the fit'ft that has been built
according to the rules ef art for a deliberat
ing aflembly, does honor to the talents of
the citizens Lecomte and Gifors the chief
architects. The workmanlhip of the rostrum
alone, would be fufficient to secure a dif
tinguilhcd reputation to citizen Lemot, a
young sculptor, who executed it.
The council preeeded by its u(hers, enter
ed the hall, amidst discharges of the artille
ry and patriotic music executed by the band
of the grenadiers of the legislative body.
The members having taken their feats, the
president pronounced the ' inauguration
speech which related chiefly to fubjefts ana
lagous to the feftival of the 21ft January.
CONSTANTINOPLE, Nov. 30.
The French frigate La Serieufe arrived
here on the 22d inft. In her paflage to this
place !ne disembarked a reinforcement of a
bout Sixty Cisalpine troops in the I Hand of
' Cerigo, which is now in poficflion of the
French, and divided into municipalities as
well as the Tino, one of- the Cyclades :
The movements in the latter island give the
me ft serious apprehension to the Divan.
About the end of Oiflober the frigate La
Caroline arrived there from Toulon with
arms, ammunition and Executive Commlf
t lionets. of the islanders have
since that time been embodied as national
guards : the tri-color flag is flying at St.
Nicholo, Port-Jofepho and all the other
parts of the islands ; this new fpe&acle and
the report of a plan of re-eltablifiiing the
freedom and splendor of ancient Greece,
has in a manner eledtrificd the inhabitants of
the Turkish islands in the vicinity. It has
already been reported here, and is general
ly bel'eved that deputations have been fttit
to the French commissioners at Tino by the
Greeks of Candia, Naxos and several other
Islands, in the neighborhood.
The City Dancing AUembly,
Intended for Thursday ieunavoida ly
poftponcd nntil Friday, the 13th of April when the
fcafen will be closed.
aprii 4
JOSITPH RICARDO,
OF this City, Merchant, has ailigned his pro
perty for rhc of hin CrcditoK, tf» James
C• kliner, Baniuel W Fisher, and Thomas Wilfoni
All persons who have demands are re
quefred to furnifh iheir accounts without d^ay—
and t-fyc-fr* indebted to ma'ie immediate payment to
the Siibfcribrr*, AfiigTJee«.
yutrtc's C. & Samuel IV. Pt fher.
No. 13, Arch Strtrt.
n-arch 31 4 f »wtf
Xfce «sasette.
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY EVENING, April 7
MR. SMILEY.
This blefTed patriot, this grateful admirer
of French raagnauimity and generolity, ac
cord a gentlernafiaday or two since in this
way—" Well I fnppofe now we (hall have
wtar." The gentlemanrcplied that it might
be probable we should, but " thank Gad,
we thall have no reason to drtadeach other."
I dont know thct said Mr. Smiley—7'bis
war has been brought upon us by the conduit of
our own Government, and it muj} be fought out
by the Tories and the friends of the British
Government—the old whigs of '76 will hold
back, unless their houses are attacked, in which
cttfe they mujldefend themselves." Is a man
with such vile and treasonable sentiments,
who will endeavour to difieminate diltruft of
the rr.eafures and condutt of our govern
ment, although it 13 the unanimous senti
ment of CCr.grefs, and has been declared
by MefTrs. Gallatin, Nicholas, Giles, iffc.'
that the Executive have done every thing
that was pofiible to preserve peade with
France—ls a mah who will thus jullify a fo
reign nation in the most outrageous, insolent
and (hamelefs attacks on the prosperity and
independence of our country, and endeavor
by a damnable calumny on the conduft of
our Executive to prevent an union for com
mon defence against a common and invete
rate enemy. Is such a man any longer to
hold an office of public trust, or an eftima
ticri in the bread of any honest man ? The
above conversation will be verified if requi
red.—Let us bring such fellows to
" LIGHT."
DIED—On Monday lift at Chester Town,
Ma'vland, captain Craig of th» (hip -Prosperity
of this port —Captain Craig's death wa3 ocea
fioiied by a fall from his horO; the day preceding.
Cj* The Eastern Mail had not arrived
when this Paper went to Press.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED.
Schr. Two Friends, Ccmnell, St. Martins 25
CLEAR. l£D.
Barque Mars, Hathaway, Madeira
Schr. Little Betsey, English, Charleston
Fifty fail of outward bound veflels lay at Ree
dy Iflaud on Thursday last—it does not appear
that any damage has been done them by the
late gale.
The (hip Fame, Jones, from St. Übes and a
brig from Jamaica are below.
The brig Gayofo, Bingham, of and for this
port, failed four days before the l'chr. Two
Friends.
The (hip Agnes, is arrived at N. York, in 188
days from Bengal.
SALEM, (Ma(T.) March 3?.
The languagfof excluftueJ>atriotifm.
Bache, in the Aurora of the 20th inft. with
an impudence unparalleled, calls Charles Pii>ck
ney an incendiary, and John Adams ["this is his
fiylej his accomplice ; Pickering's dispatch to
Piuckney, the height of insolence ; and the
fending of Pinckney on to France,
a personal affront on De La' Croix and the di
reiSlery. Mr. Marshall, he fays, is an unequi
vocal enemy to the French, and John Adams
had no right to have sent hiin. All this, and
more, is in one paragraph. In another he
charges John Adams with being a confidant in
" Pichegrn's plot." He then faniJliins his trea
sonable fluff with a filthy extrail fri*n a
guard workfcalisd " Sketches of the History of
America," in which the American Envoys are
repreferited as " hypocritiaal rjfcals"—" with
the olive branch in one hand, and a s rink-pot
in the roller."
LEXINGTON, (Ken.) February 27.
We are informed that on Monday the
inft. the house and store of Mr. Even Fran
cis of Waynefburg, in Clarke county, was
consumed bvan alarmingaccident—The cir
cumstances are as follows : A child of Mr.
Francis' having obfepved people flafti pow
der to try its quality, had discovered where
a calk Hood in the store, which contained
about feventy-five pounds, lighted the end
of a stick in the fire, and put it in the calk,
which immediately blew up : the explosion
was so great, that it tore thehoufe in pieces
and threw a barrel of whiskey and some of
the goods that was in the store, a great dis
tance in the ftrect—the child who was the
means of the aceident, and another child
of Mr. Francis' were killed ; Mr Francis's
wife and two young men who were in the
store dangerdufly burned, so that their lives
are despaired ol ; and a ysung woman who
was in the other end of the house much
hurt by a stroke from a piece of timber.*—
The melancholy circumstances attending
this dreadful accident, it is hoped will in
duce every person to guard against the like
in future.
The Annual Ele&ion
FOR Dirc&ors and a Treasurer of the Library
Company of Philadelphia, will be held at the
Litraiy, in Fifth ftrect, on Monday, the 7th of
May next, at three o'clock in the aftfrnoon, when
s he Treasurer will attend <0 receive the annual
payments.
As there are several /hares on which finei are
due, the owners ol them, or their reprefrr.tativcs,
are hereby notified, that they will be forfeited, a
greeab.y to the law* of the company, unless the
arrears are paid off on the said 7th day of May,
or within ten days after.
By ord«rof the Directors,
BENJ vMIN R. MORGAN, S«cr. tary.
April 7 3aw
Notice—Agreeably to charter,
Is hf rehy ;riven to the members of " the cor
poratism for the relief of poor and distressed
pielbyterian rninifiers and the poor ««d diltreffed
widows children of pvcJbyterian mir ifters,"
that a meeting nffaid corporation is to be hoM
en.oriihe I6tli day of May next, at 4 o'clock
P.M. in the frcond prelbyterian charch in the
citv i f Philadelphia, f >r the drfpatch of all fin h
bufmefs as liny thin be brought before the
Vat.,!. Asmm. GREEN,
/' Secretary < f the Corporation.
April 7. t:Vti6m
w—w——W—MMf—-I wimn myjHr*
N E W-TH EAT R F.
Mr. lla r wood s Night.
THIS EVENING, .April 7,
Will be printed, a Trab:dv, iu 3 aiMs, cjtli-1.
The WIDOW OF MALABAR.
Raymond, mr Marshall—Albert, mr Fox—»
Chief Bramin, mr Warren—Second Bramin, n\r
Warrcll—Young Bramin. Mr F'enncll—Narrier,
(Indiari Chief) mrWarfel!', jun.
iHtliraora, mrs Merry—Fatima, mi ft L*£ftrau£o #
End of the Tragedy,
" DASH ON—KEEP MOVING,"
An Epilogue, in the chara&.;rol Young Rapid,
By Mr. Harwood.
To which will be added (never performed berr)
a Comedy, in two a&s. called,
THE HUMORIST ;
Or, WHO'S IVHO ?
Sir Anthony Halfwit, mr Franch—Frolic, r*r »
Warren >Bluut, mr ElilTctr—Beaumont, mrFoi,
William, mr T Warrell—Oabbie, mr Harwood.
Mrs Mattador, mrs Oldmiton—DEana, niif*
L'Effrangc—Jenny, mrs Doitor—Mrs Meddle,
tars Francis
Between ilie Comedies,
A Dijferiation on Hobby Horfcs,
By Air. BtsKAfD.
The Soldier's Ho'aby The Statefnan'? Hobby
The Beaux'? Hobby Flic Ladien' Hob'
The Fuller's Kobby The Man»(j»rV Hol-oy
Mr. Morris's Hobby And His Jvvn ii-bby
After which, a favorite Farce (never performed
hcrejin ails, called,
the wandering jew ;
Or, LOVE'S MASQI'ERSDE.
Sir Sclumbß Swall w, mr Warren—Major At
all, mr Harwood—Captain Ma ml!, mrHardi-.ge
—Toby, mr BUfll'tt—Cdolc, pir Warrcll—Porter,
mr Hunter—Servants,-nielli's Lavancy, La3crty,
Lady Swallow, mrs Oldmixon—Camilla, mrs
—Lydia, mist L'iiitranec -«Susan, mrs
Do«Slor.
Tickets to Ire had at the nfual places, aHd of Mr
Harwood, No. 8o v North Eighth llrcet.
£s* On Monday Evening (by defira) and for
the last time tliis season, COLUMBIA*—with En
tertainments.
*,* Mr. Morris's Night will btooWediief
day next.
Mr. Byrne's Seventh Ball,
Will be onTuefday the icthof April, it ©'Filers'
Hot*.!. Gantlemen's ticket? one dollar, to be hai
at the Hotel. Laaies' tickets of Mr. and Mrs.
Byrne, No. 111, Scm:h Second ftrset. Tuition as
"<"»!• 3t avr l l 7
t Pennf'ylvania Hospital,
4th mo. 7th, 1798.
THE Contributors to the Pennsylvania Hofpi.
tal, are t« meet »rt the Fourth day a I next
Month, being the £econd day of the week, at the
said Hospital at three o'clock in the afternoitri, to
elect twelve Managers and a Treasurer, for the
ensuing year.
By order of a board of Managers.
SAMUEL COATES, Stc'ry.
aF rii 7 atE
For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
195 calks of nails aflorted
aS bales of fail canvass, from No. 1 t« 8
5 3 casks yellow oclire
1 j tierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 doz each
Lor/don particular > , . .... "
India market \ Madeira Win*
Teneriffedo. in JioglheadsanJ pipes
v Old Port do. in hhds.
Empty Claret bottles
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, MuflineU &c.
aflorted for the Well-India market
4, 10, and 9 inch e*b:es»nd 10 coils of cordage
Writing fiates, ink flands and prefles
23 purcheons Jamaica rum
t bale seaming twine
160 bundles (hcathing paper
THE BR 'G
r. \ AMAZON,;
F° r Sale, or Charter.
Nicklin & Griffith.
_ a l ,rll 7_ tu>l:&f.tf
TO BE SOLD,
A Very VaJuabl e F'arm,
SITUATE on theNefhaminy creek, Buck'scoun
ty, contami' g about 148 acres, of which ajjoiw 30
acres a e excellent wood-land ; the remainder mea
dow and plough laad, and in a liighly cultivated
Hate ; the whole under poll and rail fecee, chiefly
new last summer. On the prcmifes are a log-houfc
and barn. The situation for a country feat is per
haps one of the moil eligible in the vi. inity of Phi
ladelphia, lying on the Neftuminy, with the ad
vantage of a tending place within 100 yardsof the
farm-houfc, and commanding a very extcal:Te view
of the lurrounding country : Vis about three quart
ers of a mile irom tie floating bridje, 17
miles from Philadelphia, and a 1 -2 mile?from Eril
tol. For terms of sale and further inlorrestion ap
ply to Thomas Benjer, Esq. in Briilol, or
WILLIAM WALNf
No. 144, South Second llreet.
''P r 'l 7* 3-awtt 1
For Norfolk and Richmond,
77'' fcft foiling Schooner
favourite,
Wm. W. Weymouth, majler,
M'ILL fail in all next week, Ftr Freight 9r Paf
(having excellent accommodations) apply to ike Mus
ter on board, at JeJjc and Robert Waln s ivuurj or to
GEORGE PLUMSTED,
No. 166 South FroniJir^jc't.
April 5 3/
NOW LANDING,
From on board the fchr. Charloite from Boston,
30 chells liohea
30 do. Hyson > TEAS
36 do. Souchong)
And frem on board the fchocner Favourite from
Ri hnioud (Vir.}
648 b fc ls- (uperfine ) _
66 da. fiiic J
And also a quantity of WHEAT
For Sale on reafimsbie terms, liy v>
GEORGE PLUMSTED,
No. 166, Soiiih Front ftreef.
apri! 3 3a vxw
To be Lei,
( And poffefTion given on the It! of May)
A genteel three Itory brick House,
11 feet front, and 40 feet deep, withbuildingt
and ttables, at present in tho tenure of Major J / ck- §
son. F.nquire at IS7 South Thifd firect.
April 2. §
S ALT r El RE.
One hundred kegs of reflned Salt Petre,
For Sale by the Subscribers.
■j Met C. iff Samuel W. Fijher,
No. 13, ArchStrcct. '
! march 21 4t«wtf
' »JUST RECEIVED, S
FlfOU r O HT- AO-P KIN C*, r|
And FOR SALE, by the SUBSCRIBERS,
I io hhds. Coffee « nt
M (
46 tierce* do. u
I<K> barrels do. u v
100 bags do , '
110 hogftieads of Muscovado Sugar "
80 barrel* ps do.
40 hoglheads of Molasses '
4 bales of Cotton pj
% hoirfheads of Cocoa . .
WILLINGS y FRANCIS* f '°
Penn-ftreet.
. r Opi
march 11. * t hf
~ FOR SALE, Co
by ths subscribers. No. ii, Penn-ftreet, foi
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Conftjling of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Coffees Punjum Cloths p/._
«*anah» Gu?zey do. p
Humhums Charconna Dore* K-
Blue Cloth Tanjibs on
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls Tf
Mamoodys Checks fee
Maharagonges Pawia Hkfs.
Ginghams Mulmu! cl». hl "
G.izzenas Bandannoes » n _
Gurrahs Siflerfoy ' e:
Piniafcoet Choppa Romals
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gil* Rornils Persian* of various ccri.
Meek fulicaU .
too tons SUGAR
,e,oco lb. PEPPER. w j
Willings y Francis. fil
The Piece Goods ™i
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
commodious store the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-streets. m
Alfo —A few Bales of Madrafs Hkfs. of ele- so
gant patterns and best colours. c h
February 8. dtf D
A Bargain.
A quantity of Window Glass
FOR SALE, of different files, at a very large -
discount from the sterling cost. If this Glass is
not disposed of before the sth of April, it will be
fliipped from .hisport.
For terms apply to No. 89, South Third-street.
march 26. § lw o(
THE PARTNERSHIP OF
WELLS y MORRIS,
HAVING expired on the lith February hft,
all persons having demands against the said
Partnerlhip, are requested to furnifli their accounts
for ftttlemcnt ; and those indebted to the fame, to
make immediate payment to the fubfcriHer.
GIDEON H. WELLS.
N. B. The bufmefs will be lurried on as hereto
fore, iy the fubferiber, at his Store, No. 135. Mar "
ket-flrcet. Iw march **• i,
NOTICE. p
THREE Certificates of Six Per Cent. Deferred "
Debt of the United States ol the following 11
description, viz—No. 10033, J0034, and IOO3J,
for 5000 dollarssaeh, dated Bth May, 1797, and ■
ftanVing on the books of the Treasury of the Uni
ted States, in the name of Benjamin Waddington,
of Lanover Houfe,near \bergavenney in England,
Esq. have bceu loft by the capture ot the (hip Uac- J
chus, from hence to London, ip June laft.—Tnis,
therefore notifies those whom it may concern, that
apj licaiion will be made at the 1 reafury ot the U-
i*ted States for a reaewal of the fame.
Waddington & Harwood. ,
march s6w i
r pHR term of C'o-partnerfhip between the f»h
---1 fcribers, trading under the firm of John Mil- '
ler, jun.and Co. expiresthis day, and by mutual
consent wiM not be renewed* The debts and con
cerns of the ftme will be fettled by John Miller, <
Jun. to whom all those indebted to the pwtnerlhip, .
are earnestly requested to make payment to, with
out delay.
JOHN MILLER, Jun.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
February 19 _
LANDING,
From on board the Ship Sally, from
Calcutta,
and FOX SALS BY THE St'BSCRIBIR,
1600 bags prime Sugar,
800 do. Ginger
30 bales low priced piece Goods.
John Miller, Jun.
march 3 __i
~~ ~ "FOR SALE, by
John Miller, jun.
No. 8, Chcfnut-ftreet,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
AMONGST WHICH itXI
Gurrehs Mameodies
Baftas Sannas
Guzzenas TandaCoffaes
Guzzies Emertics
Blue Cloths Calic»es
Palam%oors Rooxill Handkerchiefs
Amongft'them are a great proportion of thema-
Bufa«Surcs of Patsa.
British Dry Goods,
ALSO,
Forty puncheons ot high proof Rum.
February 19 $ _
Alex. J. Miller & James Davis,
Having entered into portuerfr.ip under the firm o<
Alexander J. Miller Co.
INFORM their friends ill town and country, that
th y have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store
at No 64, South Fr»nt Sfreet,Philadelphia ; wher*
they now have, and intend keseping a general as
faj'mcnt of Mia, German, Irijb, French and Brt_
tijb Mannfailuresfot sale, on advantageous termt
for cefh or alhort credit.
Febrisary 19 §tf
LANDING
From on board the Schooner Ranger, from
JACQUtMLL,
230 Bags, containing 30,000 wt. Coffee,
For Sal by
SAMUEL HAYS,
No. i»7 Chefnut-ftreet-
Whoh»« remaining on hand 6, 00 pieces In
dia N.iNKEENS, ofaluperior quality.
Match 15■
Prison Manufaftory.
FOR S'LE,
At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of all sizes, irom 3dy to aody
Flooring Brads, Springs, saddle and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwood
shoemakers and Sadlers Thread
Also Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and hea<. ltoncs, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms, slabs, tacia, window heai*, fills, c .
All which may he had on reafonablr terms.
Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders from a dilUnce, dire<fted to Daniel Tho
mas, agent f«r the be attended to.
December mth6m
Schuylkill permanent Bridge. In
""fHE l'ubfcribers Commi(fiuH«rs appoinwd by
I nnaa of assembly ol this Comulonwealth,
entitled "An act to authorize tile Governor of T)
" this Commonwealth to incorporate a company JJ
" lor ereifting a permanent b,ridge -<ve- the river Erj
" Schuylkill, at or near the city of Philadelphia," ges
hereby give notice, that Book, are provided as the as;
law dire&s ; and that we will proceed to receive we
fubferiptions for the Company Stock, on the ninth ing
day of April next, at the City Hall, in the city of
Philadelphia. The l'ubfcriptions will be 'ecuvsd BK
from ten o'clock in the morniog till two clock, ny
P. M. of that day ; and the books will continue col
open during those hours of fucc.eding days, until the
the number, required by the said law to enable the wh
Commiflioners to certify the fame to the Governor ot-l
for incorporating the stockholders, be fubferibed i
RICHARD PETERS, a
JOHN PEROT, *?■
GODFREY HAGA,
MATTHEW M'CONNEL, £
WILLIAM SHEAFF. f
Philadelphia, 19/ i March, 1798- —3 s "
Ran away from the fub/criber, n<
on the 14th inlt. two indented Irilh ServaHt Men;
Thomas M'Guire, about 2J years of age, and s * n
feet S inches high, robust, (lout, and well made, j»
(hort black hair, remarkabla for a fear on one of
his temples; he is a forward, deceitful, vicious, 1,1
and unprincipled fellow, an J decoyed from »iy
ferviee Jeffry Corbet, about the fame age and
height, but of a milder disposition, and more fl?n- W1
der make, short brown hair ; thur working appa- tvv
rclwas blue cloth over jacket*, lined with coarfc e
brown linen, chfck and brown linen Ihirts, grey
yarn stockings, mixed twilled grey cloth trowfers, r
and rufiett leather shoes; they have other cloa'hitig
which aitogether gives them the appearance of lea
faring men, but have been brought up to theJarm
ing bufinejft; no doubt will have forged pa!Te» and
change their names and apparel as convenient, and
have taken the post road to 1 pur
chased them thelaO; fall of capt. in Balti
more. 1 will give Fifty Dollars for th«m flr
I'o that I get them, and will pay all reasonable {
charges if brought home, or if separated, I hiity
Dollars for Thomas, and Twenty for Jtffry.
ARTHUR
Head of Wye, Talbot County—March 7.
march 14. 3 aw 3 w
' TO RENT,
A good three story House,
TWO rooms on eac i floor, with a convenient
Kitchen —in Front, near South #reet. Enquire
of the Printer. n-arch l-,v<w.iw
PROPOSAL,
For Puhlijling ly Subscription,
AN
E N I R Y
INIO THE
ORIGIJ OF RPIDEMIG DISEASES.
THE Letters to Dr. Currie, whicii 1 puolilhed
last autumn, led me to an mveiligation of
the origin and phenomena of peftilsntial diseases
in other countries, as well as in the United St tcs.
In the profrcutioo of the fubjetS, new tails and
principles continually opeDed to my view, and fi
nally determined me to trace back the hifWy of
such diseases as far as the records of hilfory ex
tend. Foi* this purpose, I have examined the pub
lic libraries 111 New-York, New-Haven, Cam
bridge and Bollon, with a visw to obtain.a.l the
material fails which can illustrate the fubjiA.nnd
' I have nearly all the materials for the
proposed woi k.
The latfs eelbited will enable me to demon
' (Irate that many of the common ideas refpeSing
| pestilential epidemics, are unfounded or extremt
ly incorreil ; and this hi cOnsequence of medical
writers considering an epidemic disease as a detach
ed or isolated phenomenon in a a particular eoun
try ; rather than as conne&ed with other t pide
- ivies or other phenomena of nature in various
- parts of the world. The fa<sts f have collected
I lead to certain deductions which are surprising to .
- myfelf, and which will probably be new to many
, others. Much light will be thrown on this dark
, and p rplcxing fubjeit, as well aa on natural phi- .
• lofophy.
The proposed work will make a full-fized o&a
---vo volume ; and executed well on fine paper, can
not be afforded at lets than two dollars, bound, .
* with the usual allowance to book-fellers. As thu
- compilation will coll not only great laber.but con
sider ble expince, no more copies "ill be printed
than to supply fubferibers. The book will be rea-
II dy for fubferibers early iu the coming summer, and
the holders of proposals will be good enough to
return them to No. 40, Pine-flreet, by the firtlof
May.
Sußsca-.PTioNS received by the book-fellers in
New-York, Philadelphia, Albany, New-Haven,
Hartford, New London, Providence, Bollon, Bal
timore and Charleftoi*.
NOAH WEBSTER, jun.
march 28.
JuJl received, and for Sale at theßonkJiore of
WILLIAM YOUNG;
No. 5» ."OHth Second-ftrect.
» A COMPLETE HISTORY OF
CONNECTICUT,
CIVIL AND ECCLESIASTICAL,
From the emigration ot its firft planters from En
gland in 1630, to t713.
By BENJAMIN TRUMBULL, d. d:
S VOLUME 1.
a- Embellished with a corre<sl Map of the State, and
Portraits of some 01 the firft fettUrs, from origi
nal paintings.
march 15. TP °.I W
New-Yorky Febriitiry, 1798.
by GEORGE FORM AN,
FOR PRINTING BV SUBSCRIPTION,
A New and Valuable Work, which has been ex
0< tantonly lix months—entitled
PROOFS of aCONSPIR ACY against
all the Religions an i Governments ot EU
re ROPE, carried on in the secret meetings of Free
- n ' Mafor.s, Illnminati, and Reading Societies. Cel-
leAed from good authorities
By JOHN ROBISON, a. m.
f FrofeJJar of Natural hilofopby, and Secretary to the
p Royal Society of Edinburgh.
Nam tua res agitur paries cum proximus ardet.
THIS work will be put to prefsas soon as
om 400 fubfcriSers are obtained, and no monry requir
ed until the work is completed.—lt (hall br print
ed with an elegant new type, and on paper of fu
ee, perior quality, which will comprise about 400
pages neat o&avo, hanrifomely bound and lettered
—the price will be one dollar and fifty cents.
Those who procure 1 a fubferibers, and become
C accountable, <hall have a 13th gratis—and the u
i'ual allowance to booksellers.
The abc ve work comes from the pen of J.
Robifon, of Edixiborough, a gentleman in high
eflimatiow in the literary world—the fa<Sb therein
recorded are well substantiate , and thereafpning
and arguments thence deduced, while they difco
icl- vcr the found judgment and penetration of the
writer, are calculated to amuse as well a» to in
ftruwi. A scene of villainy is developed by the
s author fufiicicnt to appal the stoutest heart.—The
danger to be apprehended from secret focieti«s is
clearly pointed out ; the degeneracy of human aa
les, ture awfully illuftratad, and the hazard of every
:e#, deviation irsm the straight path of religion and
c . of virtue, inconteflibly proved both to the politi
cian and the chriftiari by stubborn and incontro
at vertable fa&s.
Subfcriptions taken in by G. Formal!, 46,
10- IViliuim-Jiteet, oppeftte the Fuji- Office, and by the refpec*
five booifcellers in New Ytrk and Philadelphia*
February aS.
Interpreter ofForeign Languages. J
JOSEPH E. G. M. deLA GRANGE,
Walnut-flreet, No. 110,
BEING duly coromiflioned and sworn in the a
bove capacity, offers to tranfiate the French,
Erglifli, Spanish, Portuguese and Italian Langua
ge* :he flatters himft If that his former profeuion, (
a? advooate > both in France and St. Domingo, has
well qualified him to tranfl ite any
ings or other Judciary inflruments.
N B. The FRENCH CIRCULATING LI
BRARY continues open at the above place. Ma
ny valuable additions having beeh njade to this
collection, it confillsnow of about 1500 volumes w
the best adapted to answer tlie "pWpofe of those
who wi(h both to improve in the Language, and r
obtain ufeful inftru&ion and plcafcrc.
march 30. aawTm
A House and Lot in Burlington.
FOR SALE,
A LARGE commodious two (lory brick House,
and large well improved Gatden ; with a
l»rg<: Clover I.ot, a liable, a Carriage House, and Ai
Spring House, &c. ill the City of Burlirgton,
New-Jersey. Ai
Thi< property is allowed to the mod healthy
and beautiful of any in Burlington, having a fronc
of 360 feet upon the river, and extending zoB feet
hack ; bounded on one fidc|by Broad-flreet, and on
the back by a wide alley.
The house is in form of a square, fronting 54
feet upon Brosd-ftreet. and 58 u(/on the river,—
with a pump of water at the backdoor, besides
two fine springs rifwg eut of the beautiful bank
between the garden and the river.
Far particulars, apply at No. 5, South Fourth
ftreet, to
GEO. WALKER. A
Who has also For Sale t
Lots in Waihington City.
march 31. §
' Just received. a
And for laie by W.Young, comer of Second
and Chefnut-ftreet, JVI. Carey 118 High-ilreet
T. Dobfon, 41 South Second-Greet and the
Boekfellers generally,
(Price 5-Bths of a Dollar.)
BEACON HILL,
A Local Poim, historic and deforiptive !
By a Lady of Bojlon.
ANALYSIS OF BOOK I.
I Allusion to the furrouuding ProfpeS —Invocation
J to the RiVcr and fylvsn Deities—to the Kiftcric
I Mufe—Fidion «Jifcarded —Dedication to Wald
ington—The Aftion opeasat the Retreat of the
Columbians from Bunker's H ill—General Howe
I —The Memory of his Brother—Death of War-
I rcn—Perfonification of Fortune an.! Fame—
Waihington at Mount Vernon —called to the
chief Command—Formation of tha Columbian
Camp at Cambri ge—Natural, moral, or poli-
I tical Hiflory of the ftveral States—Their com-
I manding Officers—Siege of Bofton—lts Suffer-
I ings—Negotiation for the fafe Retreat of the
; Biitilh \rmy—lre Departure —Appointment of
Congrcfo—Declaration of Independence—Cha
! I ra£lcr of the Columbian Soldies—The Poet's
I prophetic to the Frogrefe of Free-
I dom throughout the World. J
I march -3s. § 1
" JUST PUB ISHBD,
AND FOR SALE AT THIS OFFICE, ;
I 1 f Price 2$ Cents J
'■ I Reflections on Monroe's View
or THE CONDUCT OF THE EX CVTIV*,
As publiftied in the
• GAZETTE of the UMTED STATES,
1 Under the figuature of
SCIPIO,
In nuhicb the Commercial Warfare of France is traced
to lie French Faction in thi' Country, as iti Source,
j I and the Motives oj Ofpojxtion,
| march 30.
3 I . .—.—
y W anted,
I An a<slive cleanly, indubious woman to cook
" I and do the bufmefs .if the kitchen. Such a one
I will he allowed g iod wages, and no other needap
"l P'r —Enquire of the Printer.
" I February 7 §
«I" Notice is hereby given,
'* I a - plication will be made for the renewal
d I I. of a Certificate of a Share in the Bank of the
l ' I United States, (landing in the name of the S-übfcri-
I her, No. 5004, and dated July 11, 17p7-—the fame
0 I having been loft.
JOHN GRAHAM.
_ I march 5 §6w
" " TO LET,
1-1 And may be entered on immediately,
A good dry Store,
I Three stories high, and in an excellent (land for
I bufiaef*. Apply to
°J I Thomas iff Joshua Fitter,
march I. $ No 5, Dock-i'reet.
Frefli I eas.
I Jujl Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
n " J dm' For Sale, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
I At his Comptiog House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,
nd AND 87
gj SAM. E. HOWELL,
1 At his Compting House, Crooked billet wharf, 1
_ Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon,Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
N, I ALSO,
I China Ware, afTorred ; black and coloured Lute
ex- I firings and Sattins, Nankeens, Caftia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
n I whale-bone flicks.
I TZiry have also for Sale,
j Ell wide Persians. Bandanna HanJkerchi«*fs
F c ; I French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes,
el * march 8. §
jytw-Vo'k, January 24, 1798
the PROPOSALS
By Arondt V%n Hook,
Proprietor of the Reading Room ;
as I For Pub'iftiingby Subscription,
,w ~ An Appeal to Impartial Posterity,
f n . I By Madame Roland ;
100 Wife of the Miniltfr of the Interior in France,
red CONDITIONS.
These scarce and very valuable Historical Me
imc I moirs, (which ran through two London edi
:u- I t : ons in a few months,) will he eomprifed in i
I vols. of 400 pages each,
fJ. I They will be printed on fine paper and a new
'gh I type, and delivered to Subfcfiber«, neatly bound
t '" l I and lettered, at i dollar and jo cents per vol
ln" I lime -one third of the Subfcripiion money tobe
rco " I paid on delivery of the firft volume—the re-
I mainder when the work iscompleat.
'""I To Trinters, Booksellers, and others, who
[ t^< * I acquire Subscriptions, the usual a l l!owance will
e I he made
. ! tJ" Subscriptions are taken at the Readipg
a'r'' Room, No. 149, Water street—the Printing-
I Office, 149, Pearl-ftreet —and at the different
U t j_ Sookftorcs in New-York- Also, by WilJiam
rO . I Young, corner > f Second and Chefnut street, jnd
I the Editor of the Gazette of the United States,
46_ I Philadelphia. ,
icc. I As soon as a rufTiclent number of Subfcribere
I are obtained, the work will be put to press, and
I compleated with the utmost dispatch.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH 1, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN pursuance of the A& of C.ngrefs pafied on the sixth day of July one thousand seven hundred and
ni- ety-feven v entitled " An AS laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", and the
Aft puffed on the fifteenth day of December, one thousand fcren hundred and ninety-seven, entitled
"An Ail to postpone for a limited-time the comma cement of the duties impofeJ by the Aft enti
tled " An AJt laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from and alter the
firft day of July ensuing, the several Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and collec
ted throughout the United Statss. ,
For every skin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or (hect or piece of Paper, apon which shall be
written or printed any or either of the inflruments or writings: olio wing—to wit :
Dh Cts. Mis
Any Certificate of Naturalization, - * - - 5
Any Licence to praftice,or Certificate of the admifiion,enrolment or regtftry of
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Proftor, in aHy Court of the
United States, ... - - ro
Provided, that a Certificate in anyone of the Courts of the United States
for one of thefaid Offices, (hall so far as relates to the payment of the
duty afore.aid, be a fufficient admifG-m in all the Courts of the United
States, for each and everv ofthefaid •ffices.
Any Gransor Letters Patent, under the fell or authority of the United States
• (except for lands granted for military fervicts) - - 4
Any exemplification er certified copy of any fu> h grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military lervkes) ... a
Any'harter-Party, flotti mry, or llefpondentia Bond, - I
Anv Receipt or dif. barge fos-or on accountnf an/Legacy left by any Will or o
tiier tettamentary inflrirfnent, or for any share or part of a pcrfor.al estate di
vided by force of an y statute of diftrrbutims, ottfer than to the Wit'e, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceased.the amount u heitof shall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and shall not exceed >he value of One Hun
dred Dollars, - - - . 2 S
When the,amount thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
shall not exceed five hundrad dollars, - - - 50 «.
And for every further lum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional sum of I
Any Policy of Insurance or inftrament in nature thereof, on any (hip, vessel or
goods insured from one, diftrift to another in the United States, is
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which '
Insurance is made shall not exceed five hundred dolors, - ij
When the sum insured shall exceed five h'.ndred dollars, - I
Ary Exemplification, of what nature soever, that ihall pass 'he seal of any
Court, other than I'uch as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furaifh for the use of the United States or some particular slate, - 50
Any ' J .ond, bill single or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promiflbry
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or wi h the United States or any state, or for their
uferefpeftively, - - - - •
If above twenty dollars and nst exceeding one hundred dollars, - to
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, 25
If above five hundred dollars and no' exceeding one thousand dollars, 50
And if above one thousand dollars, - - - - - 75
Provided, that if any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bjmds or notes fball be ftibjeft tc only two fifth parts of the duty
aforel'aid —viz. - - "
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - I 4
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred didlai s, I 10
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, I 20
If above one thousand dollars, - - - 30
Any Notes ifl'ued bv the banks now eflablifbed, or that may hereafter be eflab
liflied within the' United States, other than the notps of such of the said Banks
as shall agree t. an annual composition, of one per centum or. the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders rcfpeftively, according to
the following scale. - -
On all note 3 not exceediag fifty dollars, ror each dollar, - -
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, 50
Cn all notes above one hundredxlollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - " " 1
On all notes above five hundred dollars, - - »
Any Protest or other Notarial aft, - - - - *5
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfios, or to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services |
performed in the late war, - - 45
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for left than
five hundred dollars - - - " 1
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, 2
For more than two thousand dollars, - 3
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
If from one diftrift to another diftrift of the United States, not being in the
fame State, - " - " IO
If from the United States to any foreign port or place, - - »5
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or tfTeftf, made in any
' cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for ,
rent or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share in any Inkranee Company, cf a share in the Bank ot
the United States, or of any Stale or ot'ner Ba k, -
If above twenty dollars and rot exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars, - - ,25
I If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
11.
The duties aforef aid will be collefted and received by the Supervisors, Infpeftors aud other Ofliceri
of Ir fpeftion, in the several Diltriit«, Surveys and Divisions of the United »taies, asd by such other
' persons a> shall from t. time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diflrifts for
that purpose.
1 IH.
e The Supervisors of the several Diflrifts will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing', and at foßn at
- may be prafticable, mark or stamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Vellum, Parch
® mcnt or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of the f1 id duties ;Or
(lamped vellum, parchment and paper n.av at the of tion of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rates prefcribcd by law, ty application to any Supervitor, lufpeftor Officer of Infpeftien,
or «ther porfon appointed for the diflribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diflrifts
GIVEN under my Haud, at Philadelphia
the day and year ifronenientioncd.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. ; Secretary of the Treasury.
FOR SALE,
By WHARTON fcf LEWIS,
No. 115 South Front Street.
A quantity of Tanner's Oil,
4th proof Jamaica Rum, ") entitled to
ifl and ad proof Brandy, } drawback.
Madeira Wine,
Juniper Berries, &c. &c.
Feb. 9. eodtf_
N O T I C E.
ALL persons who have apy demands against
th# estate of YVillam Fleetwood* of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly attested ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, to
H.Sf&SSSSSU—
Tanuary 4. dtf
Just Published,
And to be had at the Book-Oores of Mefiis. Don
so n, Campu 1 11, Young and Okmroi>,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caules and Cure of Remitting or Bilious
Fevers.
To •which it annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and praftice of
different authors: and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interesting fafts and refleftions relative to
' the Synochus Weroidei, oi 1 Yellow Fever, which
ha* occafiL'ned so much didref, and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the fcaport
towns of the United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felow of the Philadelphia College of Physicians,
and Member of the American Philo ophicaj So
ciety. Feb. I—*3m§
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WIH. commence drawing Monday, the loth
infl. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollan, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottury
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-flreet—
-1 ickets in the Schuylk.ll Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollars, where check books are kept lor regifler
ing and examining in these, the Gity of Washing
ton, No. ll.and Pattcrfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in moftjof the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The business of a Broker, inbuyingand
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcor.ating Bills aud Notes of Hjnd, sale of
Lands, Houses, &e. &c. will bednly attended to,
by WM. BLACKBURN.
November $
•S J J J -
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subfcribcr, prOpnfing to contra# his bufi*
ness, offers this Ellate for falc, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill»\/ith two pair of (tones ; also a good.Forge, all
in perfect repair, as are all the Water Works conned
cd with these various branches. The Air Furnace*
were lately built for the purpose of catting Cannon
for this State.—There are about two thoufaod acres
of Land, one half of which isuuder wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
ft Pasture. The Cannon lately manntadured there,
}f fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
». (uperior to any in this country, and probablf, equal
S) to any in the world ; for not one of &xtv-nine guns
j lately made, although some of the 24 were bored
t into 32 pounders, have faiWd on proving. The situ
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufailure, and a place of arms lying in the state
r of Conne&icut.and only miles from several land*
ings on the Hud Ton's river, and having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water issuing
from a large naUiral pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a.variety of other
b- ufeful purposes The purchafcr can Waccornnyodat
ed with all the (lock and utensils, and have poflcfiion
on or before the firti of June next, and preparation
may be madein the mean time for going intoßlaft im
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. &c. For
termij apply to Mr Joleph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Br 00 kt, Efq.one of the Reprefentawves
in Coxgrefs for this State ; Mr, David Waterman, on
the prem.'.fes, ©r to the proDiietor in New-York.
0 WILLIAM NEILSON.
1 Dee. t. 3awtf
rt ' NOTICE.
A Manufafl§ry of yellow and delft ware,
s Such as never was in this Country before, has been
been lately ere&ed at Tivoli, Red Hook Landing,
on the East Bank of Hudion's River, fta'e of New£
York, where any article of various forts and shapes
' may be executed, as well as earthern (loves upon a
L# new conftru&ioH, that saves three fourths ®f the fuel
commonly used in call iron (loves or open chymnies;,
at they are besides very wholesome* and ornamental, by
- v applying to
L J. MOUCHET,
m Wanted a (killful hand to attend to the baking and
r . glazing part of the said ware. Generous appoint*
ments will be given. Apply asabove, or to
I DAVID BROOKS, Esq.
e- Nq. 71 South sth Street*
ic Feb. 19. eod4w
id Wanted, to Hire,
■S. \ Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
of il. the centre of tht cjty—for which a generou*
0, rent will be given; to be taken for a year, or on
more for a longer term, loqvircof tht Prime*.
OS. 17. escf