sf m Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Nuaibex 169 1. J
Valuable Real Estate for Sale.
By virtue of the lalt Will and Tellament of Tho
mas May, deceased, will be fold at Public Ven
due, at the times and places herein after men
tioned, the following property of the Estate of
the laid deceased
No. i. A lot of grsund and improvements in
Wilmington, situated on the north-weft corner of
Hanover and Welt streets, fronting Ro feet on the
fprmer, and 60 on the latter, whereon is a two story
brick dwelling house-, 34 feet by 20, with a frame 1
kitchen, and a brick Smith's (hop adjoining, lub
jedt to a ground rent of 31', per arynura.
z. An unimproved lot of ground in Wilmington,
fronting 36 feet on Shipley ltrcet, between Hano
ver and Broad Greets, running half way through to
ifcreet.
3. Three equal undivided fourth parts of the
fcLK FORGES, and of about 1750 acres of land,
lituated in Cecil County, (late ot Maryland, 858
acres as this land lie in one body, through which
rijns tU* main branch or falls ot Elk River, (a capi
tal Itream for water works) whereon are eretited
twtr Forges, containing five fires and three ham
mers {brec large coal houses ; a smith's, carpen
ter'*, (hoe-maker's, and cooper's shop ; a large
merchant mill, and saw mill, a inaction house,
barn, and (tabling, a house for a diltrllery, a lull
proportion ot workmen's and other out-houfes. Al
io *n ex ten five and ptodu&tve farm, having a l*rge
orciiaid of choice fruit, $0 acres of meadow, and a
good proportion of timber laad ; the dams, works,
xfid buildings are for the molt part in excellent
condition. The rell the land lies in three par
cel?, at the dittance of about 1, 3, and 4 miles
£rom the works, and is chiefly woodland, on which
or; fikewif'e a number of houses for th: accommo
dation of coliers, wood-eutters, Arc. There never
ins been any lack of wood for carrying on thc/e
works in rtie most extensive manner, aor is it pro
bable there will be for a great number of vears to
<f»me, as the adjacent country abounds with wood
be had at very reasonable rates. The works be
ing near the tide waters of Chefapeatfe and Dela
ware Bays, afford water carriage to Baltimore and
Philadelphia, with only 10 miles land carriage to
the lattsr and 4 to the former, and commands an.
.txfsflfivo market down those bays, and the peni«-
i'ula, \yhich gives these work* an advantage beyond
molt others in refpe& to price for iron. With the
works will beXold the fame proportion of the un
expired time (of servitude) of feverai young male
female Negroes.
N. b. The moveable Stook of evety kind be
longing to laid works may be had at private con
- rradt, together with a quantity of cord wood, that
be procured through the winter.
Np. 4. A plantation containing 132 acres, fitu
at3 hi the main branch of Elk river, where the
Aate line crpfies, being P art Cecil and part in
Chester counties. There are on the premises a
good log houle, kitchen, weaver's Ihop, barn, an
oraiurd, a good spring near the house, a l'ufficieut
of meadow and wood-land. On this
place is a feat superior to most othejs for water
WQrks.
No. 5. A lot of ground situate oa {he tide at
thff lower landing of Elkton, fronting on the water
feet, and extending the fame width eastward to
the main ftreer, leading to laid landing. Oa this
Jot is a fubltantial wharf, having seven feet water
at low tide. A commodious warehoule on the
wharf, well fitted for storage of grain Mid mer
chandize.
Kfo. 6. One equal undivided third part of Joanna
furnace, and of about 1352 acres of lan;l thereunto
belonging, situate in !>erks county, Pennlylvinia,
on Hay creek. Also the right of digging and taking
ore irom the Warwick Furnace company. Ore
banks, for lupplying the said one third part for
ever , the furnace, manfcon house, and all other
buildings, and houses, (having all that are custo
mary about a furnace) are well conftru&ed, and ift
prime order. This is a young and growing estate,
and fair to become very productive to the
tuturfc holder.
'1 he whole of the above property is free of in
cumbrance, except ihe ground rent mentioned
JN ©. 1.
Numbers 1 and 2, will be fold at Mr. Brinton's
Tavern in Wiljnington, on Friday 9th of March—
Numbers 3, 4, 6c 5, at Mr. rtollinglworth'S Ta
vern in Eikton, on Tuesday 13-th iMarch—and
number 6, at Mr. Maccleas's Tavern in Morgan'fc
'Town, Berks county, on Tuefiajf 2cth of March
nfxt. .The i'ales will commence precisely at 2
w'cl ck in the Afternoonof each of the said days.
Terms of payment—One third of 4he piirchafe
*;ioney to be paid before taking poflelfion, the re
maining two thirds in three equal parts, at 1,2, & 3
■years, with interell, and mortgage on the pioperty
for lecurity.
JPofleflion will bt given of No. 1, 2, 4, 5 & 6, ;
oa ift of April next, and of No. 3 o n . the ift ot Mas.
for further ii'formation rcfpe£ting No. i and 2, J
enquire of John Hayes, Esq. in Wilmington;
of No. 3, 4 and 5, of Mr. James Garret**, at
:£lk Forge, and of No. 6. of Mr. Samuel Rwt
ter, on the premifc*.
JOHN BROOKE, ) Surviving
ROB CRT MAY, \ Trustees.
Januaiy 9. tugt
Cochrane Thurjby,
No. 23, north Front-ftrect,
Have imported by the futidry vefkls from London,
Liverpool, Bristol and Greenock,
A ASSORTMENT OP MERCHAN
( DIZE,
Among them are the following,whi,ch they will dif
pole of on riie most realonable terms, at the cuf-
credits, vir—
hKts m fanall packages, aflortcd
Striked, pointand rote blankets j
Superfifte and low-prired cloths
London and Yorklhire kerseymeres
Tvvill'd grey and striped coatiags
Flannels, baizes,
Moreeaj. durants, and callimancoes
Crapes, bombazets, and wildbores
% Nankeens, muflinets, and dimities
Irilh linens, sheetings, and diapers
Checks, bedticks, aad cotton ltripe*
Table cloths and cotton counterpanes
Siik, cotton and thread hosiery
A variety of fancy waiftcoating, confifling of
. Printed kerfeymeres,dimity and marseilles
Long and (hort pl|re plushes of most Colours
Velvets, thicksets and corduroys
printed calicos, chintaes and ftiawls
Linen, cotton, and bandanna handkerchief*
Plain and fancy mudins and ntuflin lhawls
Lustrings, periians and fattins
Cambric 9, Lawns and Gauzes
Laces, edgings, glo\ js and threads
Sundry cutlery and hardware
London pewter in caflcs, pins, 4cc.
June 2 ftf
~ tOR SALE,
One ttuo el'gnmt nevj
Three Story Houies,
SITUATE Oil the wfftfidc of Front, bilew Lom
rtreet, »Uout twenty three teet eight inches
trout, fort* two deep, with pilzia »nd kitchen to
eaiih houle; are built of thl best materials,
»nd in a particular good manner ; are very a ry
and convenient ■, not quile finiftied ; but can be
e-mpleted in the course of five or fix weeks, the
weather permitting. Any alterations will be made
ts suit the purchaser, by paying part.t the
and the remainder in one, two, or three years waft
inierctt, l'eaured by mor:g»se on the ptemifas.
A|»ply to ' SAWL. Tir.AD^
Swanfon, near Catharine fltect, Souihwark.
Jao 9 Wthi U
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, FEBRJJART 9, 1798.
JUST RECEIVED,
AND FOR SALE, AT
W. Young's Book-store,
Corner of Chefnnt and Second streets,
Causes qui fe font oppofces aux
Progres du commerce, entre Lii Fk ANCE et les
ETA I 3-UNIS de L'AMFIUQj'E.
Avee les Meyens de I'accelcrer 5
Et la comparaifon de la Dette Nationale
de l'Angleterre, dc la France, and des
ETATS-UNIS.
In fix Lettrc», addressees a Monsieur lc Mar
quis de la Fayette. Traduit fur le Ma
nufcrit Anglais du Colonel SWAN, ancien
Membre de la Legislature dela Republique
du MaiTachulTet.
Lo Commerce ell la portion la pitas importance des
(Kicheiles Rationales.
LeTridentde Neptupe,cftle fceptiedu Monde.
Lilliltt.
Or eaufes that have been opposed to the
VROGR.Ei'S of V.OMMERCK botiveen
FRANCE and the UNITED STATES of AMERICA.
With thi means of accelerating it 5
And a comparison of the National Debts
©f England, France, and America.
In Six letters, directed to the Marquis
de la Fayette.
Trairflaced (into irrench from the original Bug
lifli ManuXcrr t of Col. Swan, formtriy a Mem
ber of the Legislature of Maflachufctt*.
Commerce the most important portion of the
Wealth of Nations.
1 he Trident of Neptune is the .Sceptre of
the world. LP. wit re.
AT a juncture when .the qucftion of
a CetfiK.erciai Treaty ivitb France may soon
become an objc& of difcufliien, a w«rk«f this kind
becomes extremely ufeluf to thofc «itizens of the
United States, who may be desirous to enable them
fei ves to view this fubjedt, under its various af
pedb ; and they will have the fatisfadlion to be
furnifeed with the ncceffary data, to judge of the
ttfefnlnefsof this tranfa&iou.
This work is principally diftinguilhed by the
richness of the observations, the pcrfpicuity of tho
i*cas, and the modesty of the theory .which it
contains. At Pars, a man of wit ebferved, that
this work was like a rich farmer's barn, heaped up
to the very roof with ufeful produce. It is addref •
fed to the unfortunate La Fayette, *a letters,
which fugitive form, the author Xvho could only
devote a few weeks to this occupation, was obliged
to adept. Although are in many
refpc&s different at the present day, from what
th«y were in the year 1790, when these letters
were written, yet it maybe justly faid,thatfo ma
ny absolute and permanent data (till remain, that
the judicious reader will not appreciate the work
lesson that account ; on the contrary, as many of
the alterations, which have been made, are the re
fill t oi the author's remarks, it will serve to con- j
vince him that in all tranfa&iotis, between free j
nations, every thing may be cxpedled from the ef
forts of truth andjuflicc.
LETTER I.
General view of the obstacles/created in France,
to prevent the ot commerce, with the
United States—Observations made in a tour, taken
lor that express purpose, uponfome French raanu
fa&ures (a precious fragment this). Examination
and refutation of the prejudices eiifting in France,
agamil the quality of certain produ&ions of the
United States, aad againll the advantages of their ,
importation—Demomiratiott of the bad policy of
laying duties ea their importation, principally on
pfoviliens in general, and on fait provisions, and
tifk in pa- titular —Confi derations on the regulations
of the French cul.om-houfes.
LETTER H.
Obfiaclcs to the exttnfion of trade with Fran:e,
pfocecdifig from circumstances and individuals in
t!'e United States—Proofs tha" these ohftaclcs ate
only temporary and will be removed (they have
been removed) by time and thewifdomof jrovcrn
ment —Kiftoryof the influence of the American
paper reoney—lniporta-.it j rinciples and abftraA
considerations on money and circulation—Caufos
of the llagnation cf American trade, after the
peace—Critical examination of French im
ported into America, and extraordinary conduct
of the French merchaats—Effe&s of good com
mercial laws; and patriotic wifiieson thisfubjoA —
Observations on money, weights and mcafures.
LETTER HI.
EfTay in the form us a tableau, to appraise the im
poitaiions into the United Slates Jinn France and Eng
land united. The author examines at each article,
whether it can be better lurnifhed from France or
England—lt is principally on this lubjeft (which
would have artonilhed a mere thcoriit) that the auihor
appears to evince great commercial experience. These
kina of taklc2ux> uuluckily as riiffxcult to obtain as
they are much to be dcfired, arc the only sure guides
the flatefman can take for th policy of treaties, de
prived of which he is continually deceiving or decei
ved. We cannot too much admire the apparent ex
aftnefs of colonel Swan's dalculations. ; and although
the propbefles of Lord i>hctHeld have already been
contradicted by experience, and by feverai able pens,
yet it is curious to lee the author of the prelent work,
difpuie with him the only ground on which he has
1191 been hitherto attacked, by proving that Frauce,
under the required condition, will t>e better able
than Gieat Britain to supply us with feverai articles,
which the author allots excluQvely and forev
er to ihe latter; ihc author's partiality *ffcß on (if he
has any) does not appear to Have at any urae created
9 partiality of judgment. Thd result of this calculation
is that m >789, that is to lay, at a period when arts
and manufactures did s>ot present in Franec the vail
means and probability ot cxtenfion which they now
pofTcls. that even in 1789, it was presumable, that
France would not only have the means to supply one
half mi any given auantiry of the productions of France
and t united, but also to enter into competition
with G»eat Biitain tor the remainder, :n proportion
te the wisdom of her government, and the mduftry
of her inhabitants.
LETTER IV.
Calculation of the expoitations of the United States,
and particular examination of their iui ablenefs to
France; this is one reason why, notwittoftandmg the
excell nt work of Mr. 'i ench Coxc, Mr. Swan's ta
bleau is by no means fupcfluous . tne principle ot the
advantages which would reluit 10 tranee trom the
importation ct provisions «nd raw materials, is every
where applied ; and it is upon this argument, thai
the auihor cltablilhcs his demands co the French go
vernment, for the limned admiflion of the produc
tions oi his country 1010 France
LEiTER V,
Tableau, of the debt of the United States at that
time —Opinions ot the auihor on the finances, on, the
eiltA ot national debt, on circulation, See. as more
amply detailed in his National /Arithmetic printed ai
Bolton in the year 1786 ; the whole csicuiitted to
Hreiigihen in France, the public and private credit
of the United States —the happy conditio.-, ot Ameri
ca, and tbcmiierie* anting from the public debt in
Europe, arc contraUcd in the abielt manner, and un
. der th; most linking ieti»icltf, by very cu *>us cal
cula ion—Obtervauons on the wildom atid economy
w.ikh preside over the ufcbiic expenles m
sets. In it.is place ihe pntriotitui ot the author ap
pears, with all the elevaiisn wn»c:i ajuft iiatiofial
pride wlpues. The ancient goviromems ot Europe,
By John Fen no, N°" 119 Cbefrmt Street.
fays he, will learn from us the art of economy i»
rtcompcnfing the feivices which the country roaches/
Amongß us it will. be fe.en, that men are. chojen Joy pifi cj,
and not p'aces for van. Th s letter concludes wi.H
1 geiieral view of the public p'openy, depohted iri Ihe
hands ef the gover- menc of ihe United S
LETTER VI
General ex£minatk>u of the defe&s of the commer
cial policy ot Fiance with refpeft so ihe United State* ;
many ot these ohfervatiors have produced the effc£l»
for which tney were iotended, others Hill remain,
pointing oar. the reforms 1«o be made in future, as a
good Chart marks the ihoals and rocks. The author
concludes his wo'k, by fixing his .attention on hit
couutry, and thereat men who have »erdered it iU
luftVious; and wc take a pleasure in quotirtf( what he
! Uys of the present chief of our to
f praise a man when he exercises a dillinguilhed em
plcyment, is common, and may be taken for flsttery {
Uit whilst he is in private life, it u thc v h«unage of
finceiity.
Note,
* Les Wabitans ccs btats-unis, fuivant dans leur
choix le bien public, <sc excites par Un principe de
reconnoiffance, choifircnt M. John Adams pour vice
prefidfut du nouveau Scs efforts, pour pre
server le peuple des intrigues formccs par le gouv
frucment Anglais contre fa libei te, le rendirent tres
fulpedfc a ceux qui etoicnt en pouvdir. Le peuple,
convaincu de son merite, le choifit pour uq dc fes
reprefentans dans lc premier congres. Pc cc nombre
eioit audi M. Samuel Adams, audi intrcpide,
qu'infatigable. La revolution Americaine doit beau
coup a la pcrfcvcrance de fes travaux, Sc a fes talens
difliiiges. Ceux que M, Jot\n Adams a
dans le traite dc'paix, qui s'ert fait a Paris en 1783,
out prouve qu'il etoit miniltre auffi habile que grand
po itiquc. Lt cians son ouvrage fur la defcafe de la
constitution Araericainc, il a montae touies les can
noiffances qji ferment les vrais junftonfultes &, les
hornmes de hi; corfnoiffances nceeftjires, poui rem
plir honOrablemtnt les! de pr'efzdcnt du fenat
des E a s-unis.
Thirty Dollar? Reward.
RAN- A WAY frdm Elizabeth twi y in Ne-w
---jcrfey, a mulatto *Han y named Montgomery—
akbut 29 yean old., 5 feet; qr. inch hlrh> well made,
has bushy hair %h>bicb context* a print, hiv on bh
forehead, and draiun in a small jueui behind, he has
a doivn look, rather modejly bus remarkable red
cheek r, good teeth, chtivs fbacco and is fond of
drink—7l is supposed he is in Philadelphia, as be
Ivas seen ivithin a few miles of the city. Whoever
luill take up fuid man, him t that his maj
ter may gft him again, fJAtI teceive tbe above re
ward and reafgnable charges said. Apply to the
Office rfthis Gazette.
All persons are forwarned not to employ or har
bour said servant man. Dec 23 —tuthstf
Musical Instrument
MANUFACTORY,
No. 167, Arch Jlreet.
Harper, harpjichords, grand, portable grand, fide
board, pier table and fyuare piano forte maker,
from London, returns thanks to his friends and
the public, for their liberal encouragement, and
hopes that by his ajjiduity and attention to evety
branch of bis buftnefi, to met it a continuance of their
favours. Piano fortes made on the toewejl and most
approved plans, with pedals, patent,fwell, & French
harp flop, which he flatters bimfelf-will be found
on trial by unprejudiced judges, to be ejual if n»t
fnperior to any fmpirted, and twenty fer cent,
cheaper. Any iriflrumcnt purcbafed of him, if not
approved of in tie>clve y montbs, be will exchange,
Jv? B. All kinds of 'Musical Instruments tnajf,
tuned and repaired with the' great eft accuracy, dif
patthy and on the most reasonable terms, for ready
money only.
Second band Piano Fortes tak*n in exchange.
The American Ladies
Pocket Book for 1798,
JUST PUBLISHED
By WILLIAM Y. BIRCH
No. ty, south Secoud street—Containing
An elegant frontifpiece of the Marquis de La Fay-,
et te and his family in the cattle of Olmutz, with an
illustration, being an acc®untof the principal events
in the public life of- the Marquis, with aiketch of
the futterings of himfelf and his unfortunate family.
A complete almanac—lo4 ruled pages for memo
randums, observations See. alio for accounts of mo
neys paid and received for every day in the year.
A marketing a<nd other ufeful tables—General meet
ings of Friends—Lift of birth, deaths, 6cc.—-New
country dances, poetry, songs, enigmas, &c. &c.
ALSO,
The Ce-nT l e man's Annual Pocket
Remembrancer for 1798 —Containing, an Al
manac ; 104 ruled pages for N]em. randunis an 4
Cafii account ; Duties p.-yable imported
into the United States, Cuftom-h«ul'e fees, &~t. See.
Stamp Duties, to take place after the 3 rft Decem
ber $ a lift of the Post Towns and crofs-ioads in
the United States ; a variety of ufeful tables, and
etker interesting matter.
W. Y. BI RCH conftautjy keeps for sale a gene
ral aflbrtmertt of Merchants' Accoukt Books, and
other ftatioxary goods and ipakes to order books of
any size arid ruled to any pattern.
Elega:mt Maps on rollers, and a large
Chart of tre WesNDIU.
Hair and Leather Trunks—Playing Cards, Eag
li(h afnd American. oft U tuit&stf
100 Dollars Reward.
TAKE NOTICE.
WAS LOST last night at Edward Pole's auc
tion room# a Red Morocco POCKiET
BOOK, containing the following promill'oTy notes,
viz. John nbte dated the aythNovember
.last, at 60 days, for. 343 dollars and $7 cents;
Montgomery artfl .Vewbofd's two notes dated agth
November last, one at 90 days for lss© dollars, and
tohe other at io«days for' 1543 dollars 47-tooth?;
Watson and Paul's two notes dated 16th December
last, each for 2350 dollv s » onc at ie othtf at
90 days? George Aihbridge's iiote da'tfid'the lit
rut*, at 60 days;* f»r 350 dollars. The abov.£ n#tcs
are all payable to the lubfcriber.
William Rogers to Francis Barker, and by him
indorsed, dated 25th November last, at 90 clays, for
IS2 dolls. 72 cents.
Ward Cadogan's draft on Hallowell and Rboads,
at .60 days, for 1000 dollars, and by them accepted,
ai\d endorsed by Ricketts and Newton, payable to
the order of the fubferiber.
.Thefubfcriber's note to George Aftibridge, dated
the irft mitant at 6c? days for 175 dollars, and by
him indorsed. Four notes drawn by John Niehol
fon, and iadcrfed by Robert Morris. Thre. dated
15 January 17951 at three years, for 20*0 dollars
each, the other dated 10 January 1795, at tbree
years, for 4000 dollars, all duo and regularly pro
fited, by Peter Lohra, notary public, with a num
ber of other valuable papers that can be of no use
to any but th~ fubferiber ; paymeat being flopped
on att the notes.
f! the par fan wh? has found the above pocket
book will forward it with ihe contents, to the lub
fcriber, on Cheinut rtreet Wharf, dial I receive a
reward of one hundred dollars, and no quiftions
«iked. CHARLES SHOEMAKER.
Jan 21 —ls "" *
T OVAL KOTTLpS.
Quirt ami half galmn in crati'< —ant! 2 quaatU
ty ot C4iret of a (izt—) ar fa!«-.
No. 1.-, Church AHcy. JOHN DORSEY.
1 J iniiary i» sNw6w>
Bank of Fennfylvania.
AT a mating of the 3toekhoM<Ts, at the
Bank on Friday, the 3d February, 179&, purfu
aut to public notice—
On motioa, Rc-Jolvsci, That, ♦•ljis h«-
Jng iinpreifed wi:h a duo sense of the extf^ordina -
ry services and attention of Samuei, M. Fey l fq.
Preffdent of this Bank, in the execmtioß tn<; du
ties of his o(Bcs ; which have been mulch intrcal
ed by the peculiar Ctuation of the infthution, at
tho period of his appointment; and J»y the diffi
culties in cons luence of the rec-eat Ca
lamity in this city ;— a committee of three gentle
men be appointed to prepare a piece of 'Hate, cf a
value it-* exceedingfive hundred deilais, with fujt
able emblems and devices, to be praknseu to Mr.
Fox, in the name of the Sto kholders, as an evi
dence of the high lenle they entertain of his late
official services.
William T. Smith, Peter WikofT, and Charles
Diddle, Eftgrs. were appoiottd a committee for the
above purpose.
Ordered, that the preceding refolutmn be pub
lished.
Extraft from the minntes.
WZLLLVM t. SMITH,
Chahman.
Atteji—John SiTCREAVE% Secretary.
Prejh Fruit.
To-morrow morning will be landed, at
Morris's Wharf, jufl the Draw
bridge, the cargo of the schooner Freade
rickfbnrg Packet, Captain Pearce from
Malaga, via.
Bloom Raisins in kegs
Do. Do. in boxes
Mufcattil do. in do.
Figs in kegs
Almond kernel* in cases and boxes
Bott (hell'd almonds in faek|
Prunes in boxes
Grapes in jars
Anchovies in kegs, &&.
The whole of the articles fhipp«d as of the firft
qualities.
For Sale by
Peter Kuhti.
February 5 djt
' Fresh Fruits and Wine.
Edward Dunant,
No. 149, Ssuth Front-ftrcet,
Has remaining of the cafgo pr Johanna, from
Malaga—
-99 kegs Railins
Boxes J Bloom do "
icj ditto Mufcalel do.
15 kegs Figs
ao qr calks fine old Colemenar Wine
A few pipesand hogsheads of Celalonia Wine,
and Malaga and Mountain Wine«in hhds and
quarter calks.
He has also for Salt—
A few packages of Madiafs and Calcutta
goods, viz.
Tickery—Humhums
Barhar Handkerchiefs
B!aek and coloured Toffities and Perfuns
Hatidar.noes —ChoppaHomaJls—X'ullicet hkf.
Chintz
Likewise a few boxes of Spermaciti Candles,
and bags of Blaefe Pepper.
Feb. <. ,;t
For Sale.
THF. Subscriber ofT<trsfor ffle the property now
occupied by him in ibetown of Weil-Chefter
and corfnty of Cnefter, It confilfgof a well j
two flory flone hoiifr, 43 feet front*, by abont !
deep, tou'' rtiom'S" on a floor, with cieied jjarrrtsr
ana a cellar under the wcois-r— A very good stone
Stable and Coact houfu- And a lot of GrounJ,
three pcrelies wide, by twenty perches depth.
The' house Aamjs ®n the Main Areet; its
is high and very 1 hsndfbme; the lot extends to a
bnck Rree*, on which the ftahle and coach house
ftand-. The Ut is in a high state ©t cultivation*
and there is in the yard a purnp of excellent water,
which has, at no tima, known t® fail.
The liiuation of the town is liigh, and remark
ably healthy—the country t round it, fertile and
beautiful.
The terms of payment will msde tm suit the
purchaser. Tliey, and the price, will be
upon application to Mr. Jonathan Sm th, at no.
149, bouth Third-fir et, Philadelphia, or to
ROBERT FRAZER.
February 5. mwuf
The cargo of the Weft-Indian from
Jamaica, landing at South Street wharf,
136 hhds. and 300 barrels choice Cofice
98 Hhds ot prime hugar
29 Hhds. of Rum.
For sale By
Peter Blight.
WHO ALSO OEFERS FCil SALE,
5©®;0«o Lbs of Java Coffee
800 Bags do. Sugar
Cloves and inace in boxes
A quantity of Hifpaniola Cocoa
Ked Port Wine in pipes and hog (heads
Madeira do. in pipes
February 6 d2Tveotm
Prison Manufactory.
FOR SALE,
At the Ppifon of the City aad Oounty of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of allftzes, from to 2ody
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and card Taclc6
I Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakers and Sa4lers Thread
Also—yawed Marble, suitable for currier's .tables,-
tomb and heal ftpnes, hearths, diiiwicy pieces,
platforms, slabs, facia, window heai*, lills. c .
All which may he had on reasonable terms.
Shoes made and Weaving done at iaid Ffifon at
a moderate price.
Orders from A distance, diredlcd to Daniel Tho
mas, agent'for the piifoH, will te attended to.
December 26 mdi6m
A Nurse's place wanted.
| A WOM 1 N ju!t ariivfd from wants a
placi as a Nurfeor attendant on tbe f-c'k, either on a
Gentleman or Lady.—Fo~ furihrr ißrforrtatiun a:»ply
at 10, South Fourth ftrec?, n?ar Marke street.
1 Yebi 6. 3 f
Far Sale,
The trone of a youoj MnYitte Grrl, about
twelve years old, has about eleven years to serve.
>is very capab't of taking care of a child,
~>ml underflands house wcrk. Hi;quire at No.
97, North sth ftroet.
jaa. sa. r eodaw
j-a. :>
Canal Office,
February 7, 1?97-
AN ad|our»ed moeting of the Stockholders of
tht Delaware aud Schuylkill Canal Navija
uoa»>, will be held, at the Company's ©face, on
firiiiay next, at 7 o'clock, p. m
GEO, WORR'ALrL, Secretary.
February ?. 3
LosTt—YellerdSy in the Market,
AN O£DI£R. drawn by capt. Richard O'Brien,
favor of John on Mr. Tench Franci? v
Purveyor of Public Suppli s. Whoever hag Cootid
the fame, it rectified to leave it at Thomas Lar
kiun's, aSo fouth'Front-flroet, oi at this office.—
aymeut bejng flopped* it can be of no ufeto any
one but the owfler. Ffb. 7 -*3<
vjt Stop the Runaway.
ABSCONDKD from his matter's employ, in the
city of Philadelphia, on the sth of this ia
.ftant Febrmiry, a Negro' Man, named Mentor, a
bout 5 feet 6 or 7 inches ih height, and of rath«r '
3 spare make ; his ph.fiog.itny is vacan but uov
difjgreeabie ; his age is supposed ta be about 40.
He had 011 mlirn lie went away, a (hort blue cloth
coat, striped caffimrre vfft, corduroy breeches,
and yarn {fockiitys of a bf»e and white mixture
he took wfth him a blue cloth great coat, the cape
of which is cJgcd with yellow binding ; a long
Brown cloth codt ; a !Vort blue clSth coat with
buff coloured-cape ami cirftt ; atfe, a pair of b'ue
eloth fc»«tthe» ; the other cioathos he took with
hlm-CMBOt be particularly dfftrilxd.
It is fuppolVd, he iut=nds gdin;; to the eiftcrn
(liohe of .Maryland. Whoever will apprehei'd, and
secure the said negro in any gaol, so that his msfter
may get hwii agairf, otbrirg hifti hoftie, ft all have
a reward of -tv/iuty dollars.
Afply to the Enmer.
February 7. $
YVanted,
An ailive, cleanly,.induftrious woman to cook
a/id do the bufitiels of the kitchen. Such a due
will be allowed good wages, and no other need ap
ply-—Enquire of the Printer.
February 7 §
Just Published,
And to be had at the Book-Qores of Meflrs. Dob
sow, Campbell, Young and Orhkod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Ca«les and Cure of Remitting or Billious
Fevers.
To •which is anexeJ', t
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions arid praSice of
different authors : and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interesting fails and reflections relative to
the Syncclus IStcroides, or Yellow Fever, which
has occifiontd so much diftref. aifd mortality,
at different periods, in several of the seaport
towns of the United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Fellew of the Rhiladelphia College of I hyficians
and Member of the American Philo ophical So
cistT- Feb. J—*3m§
IN THE PRESS,
And speedily will be Published,
For the benefit of the
MARINE SOCIETY of the UNITED STATUS,
A general plan and fyltem of Regulations therein :
Written at Sea, in tie year 1794 :
And now printed
BT THE AUTHOR.
w A navy woald be maintained but to an alm'.ft
uiclefs purpefe which taking the fearenzn kept ti.c
merchantman idle in port, and veifois
would be as unprofitahly employed, if they took
3l! thofefeamen whefeflcill and couragconboard flii ps
of war, would give them pr teclion «id feciire
their fafety. We hav> enough for both purposes ,
and the cultivating hand of attention alone is want
it gto multiply their number. « Money may buy
J " all naval ftotes, except mariners; but, unless a
supply of th»m is preserved, no wealth will be
" able to procure tuem."
February 7. j
WANTED
A young Gentleman to go
Doftor of a Ship ro the East-Indies.'
EnquilO at No. 15 Do.k Street.
Tcb - 6 ' ; diw
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies
A/fKS. GROOMBHIDG'E.with much pleaf
i»l ureand refpeft, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal e«couragement
she has received during four years refidencc in
Philadelphia ; and aflures her friends and the
public, fa far from i«:cnding t« decline her
school, (he has made a fupenor arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
("cholars.—Eyery branch of ufeful and polite
education ii particularly attended bv Mrs.
GVoornbridge and mailers excelling in their
refpeftive profeffions.
Corner ®f Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
Jjiwjth, 1797. J rmftf
The fitratjon.il healthy : and made
more agreeable by an ejtfenflve garden aud lot
of ground adjoining the house.
Canal Lottery—No. IL
WILL cemmence drawing Monday, the 2©th
inft. Tickets for Sal ? in this Lottery at
Snen Lallan, at \f u. BLACK«URN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-flreet-1
Tick-ts in (he Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at 7«
Pdlar,, where.check books are kept lor register
ing and examinging in these, the City of Wafhing
too, No ll.and Patterfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in most of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
r if* 1 a Brorer, inbuyingaad
ielling all kinds of Public Stack and Securities,
difcesating Bills and Notes of Hand, f<le of
Lands, Houses, &e. &r. will be duly attended to,
°y WM. BLACKBURN.
November 15. '
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DRY GOODS.
f Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. 56,
M.r.Jay) soUth Front " ftr,:c, >
■') Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 6c
(' Swuth Front-street. .
r Fortnoon—John Connelly, Old City
Tuefday\ Aa<fUon ' No 7.3 fout'h Frem-ftrect.
' Afternoon—Will, 3m Shannon, No.
C I*3 High-street.
A & h °"^ r P d " ft 7^ nfo0 ' No. 74
Tlnr/day Fo »-
I Afternoon—John Com elly.
Friday ? Forenoon—William Shannon.
' J ) Afternoon—John Connelly.
Stturdaj Afternoon—Peter Senion.
[ Volume XliLWJS HING7ON I. OTTER *Y —No. I s .
"List or Pkhiks and Blanks.
154 th Day's Drawing—December *3-
Aj. I)oh. AO. Dolt. A'o- IDols. No. Huh.
S icSx * 349'4
»8j 11196 6*4 9.'7
jB6 , 890 x 799 Js'cß /
648 ' 977 x »6uo »0?4.t 50
I»C9 • 1*!49 37»' 6
357 879 jSS ai7
448 i3'*6 6JB 345
938 »33 6t T 9 66
1164 ija x 7*o x 38360 x
s<-8 43> *7*B» 37*
3->J6 524 . 75» 703
oil 141 a* x 28105 x 813
481'. 44t 416 :oo >9003
<i&4 X. 15634 44» 944
4085 7CO X 749 40180
331 16x57 937 X 850
653 X 39S X 29087 41077
5481 19 441 X 099 341
543 873 »*» 43789 x
6231 x 171*4 x 94J * 805
878 x Hi x 30317 886 x
7434 18173 558 996
447 * 44» 31498 4435*
736 X 49*83 333 * s°l *
810 191 X 344 833
Btis x ,5*6 37? 979
JJ!O is 777 7'9 *3*3®
591 Bcß 908 931 x
Bxo 20961 3232 a 4«'21
>«6B 21592 x 357 x 479°5
350 x 863 715 48797 *
926 22793 749 49 ,0 5 i°
998 950 9 le JBS sso
io*47 »o 23298 33328 X <Ol x
395 joo X 750 924 x
429 x 24179 2» 34'S n * 9*7 x
539 x 47t » *3B x
817 lO *5189 4*3 X
FOR SALE,
BY THf s-BsCßlßsrs, No. 11, Pcnn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Cunjtjiing of
Baftas, of Various qualities and prices,
Coflaes Punjum Cloths
Sanahs Guzzeydo.
Humhums Charconna Dorea
Blue Clrth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls
Mamoodys Checks
Maharagonges Patna Hkfs.
Ginghams Mulmul do.
Guzzenas Bindannoes
Gurrahs Siflerfoy ' y—v
Pimafcoes Chnppa Romali
Salgatcbys Sooly do.
Gillie- Rofmls Persians of various col.
Meek Pulicats ,
*OO tons SUGAR
94,000 'b. FErFER.
Willings & Francis.
The Piece Goods
01 ; lh; Ganfrei are now open to sale at lhat
ccmin kliows (tore the north wtit corner of
Market ami Fourth-streets.
A!l'o~-A fsw Bales of Madrafs Hkfs. of ele
gant patter: s and btft colours.
Fthruarv 8. dif
A Roman Catholic Clergyman,
Who h:s been a ccnflderable time on the
miffiun in the country parts of the state of Penn
fylvania, gives thi» oorite to any extunfive pro
prietor of land with'n the Paid state, and border;
ing on either tbe Potomick, Sufqiaefianna, or
Juniata rivers ; that he is enabled to make a fat
tlernent with fro-n fifty to one hundred and fif
ty families, if due encouragement be 1 fFered
For luther info mation, apply to the Rev. Leo
naoi Neale, Wtiling's Ailey.
F«b. 8.
IN THE PRESS,
AMD SPCEDI L Y WILL Be PUBLISHED,
Refledions on Monroe's View
or rtiK conduct or rw sxe.cvrirt,
As published in the
GAZETTE of tbe UNITED STATBS,
Under the signature of
SCiPIO,
In which the commercial warfare of France is
traced to the French fa<Sion in this country
is its feufcfc', ?nd the motives of the opposition
tathe meifures of the United States are exposed.
Feb. 8.
The holders of Certificates ac
ceptanres, endorsements and other engagements of
Edward Fox, fer account of James Greenlcaf, are
hereby notified, that Wednesday, the 14th Febru
ary rrxt, i« the IaII day, on which they can admit
fuMeriptiont to the /und aPign- J for the payment
of f|ki enga^emeptf; and that those holders, who
do not on or before thst Jay make their fubferip
tions, will be excltldud ."run: the benefit thereof.
Henry Pratt,
T. IV. Francis,
'John Miller, jun.
'John AJhley,
Jacib Bakrr.
January if). §
Nicklin iff Griffth,
At their Store on Walnut Street Wharf—
H AVI SALk,
58 hhds. of Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wine in pipes and hhds.
Teneriffe do. in
Old Port do. in hh4«.
Imperial Tea in quarters and eighths as «he!)s
Sail Canvafi, No. 1, to 8
Dimities, Ginghsms, and Muflinets, in packa
ges ftiitable Tor the Weft-India market
Kails (iTorted
251ack quart bottles
Qtxens ware in hhds. and crates
Yellaw ochre dry in calks ;
And at New-York, on board the
(hip Diana, from Liverpool, expe&ed round
as soon as the navigatio* is open,
Fine Liverpool Salt
_Coals
Spanilh Brown
Venetian Red
Purple Brown i p A i NTS
Patent White .*
White Lead 1 -
Red Lead J
Caler.thar vitriol
l 6« bundles Shesthing papar
Seaming Tw'ne
Sh 'P ® IANA »
. P For Sale or Charter.
ALSO,
Brig Amazon.
N. B. Ihe late firm of rh'dip Niekl'm it Co.
Is now chaaped to
NICKLIN GRIFFITH.
January *. eodtf
Xfte <E>asttte*
PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EVENING, FEBRUAKr 9.
EiktraS of a letter from an inhabitant of Pittf
inrgh.
" In the notes of the debates in con
gress, on tb« fubjctS of making a farther
provision for the daughters of the late Count
de Grade, it is obfetved by a member that
there are claims of equal or superior right
amongst derelift widows and orphans of A
naerican citizens who have yielded important
military services in the course of our revo
lutionary contest. The widow and family
of the late general Butler are particularly
mentioned. lam not about to compare the
services of general Butler withthofeof the
Count de Grafle, being diftinft in their na
ture; the one with the command of a fleet,
yielding aa important service on a single
great occaCon when perhaps he could have
avoided it, with less nfque to his reputation
and refpotiGbility than by supporting his
station in our favour: a foreigner also, and
from an enthusiasm in our cause, to riujue a
great deal was not .to be demanded. Nor
(hall I compare the filiation of the daugh
ters of the late Count de GrafTe with that
of the widow of general Butler; being al
so materially different, these thrown upon
oar coafls naay fay totally destitute, and
calling for the feellings of humanity to
themselves as well as gratitude to their fa
ther. Nevertheless at the fame time that I
approve of the provision made for the daugh- j
ters the late Count de Grafle, I think it 1
ai (hame to the American republic not to
have taken feme notice of the family of,
general Butler. I always well knew, and
perhaps was the firft tint acquainted Mrs.
Butler with the circumstance of the fall of
the General, "that (he was not within the le
gislative provision of Congress for the wi
dows of officers that loft their lives in the
service, for that refpe£ied only the revolu
tionary war; and I saw clearly the embar
raflroent of Congress in extending that pro
vision to the establishment since the war, as
it was no part of the terms on which com
missions were given qr retained in the course
of that service. And it was more than I
expedled when I heard that a bill making
that provision had palled nearly bo':h houses
of Congress, and was loft only by one vote.
My idea always was, that, of making a
special provision, gratia, not for the wi
dow of. the general, for she does not abso
lutely (land in need of it; but the sons of
the general. His was small but not
embarfafled ; and his widow though no; in
affluence, is above indigence, from her dis
tributive (hare of theeftate; but the delica
cy of her fitnation is that (he is not able to
give her fons'an education worthy of their
f» hers rank. She has struggled hard, and
by great economy, and the sale of proper
ty has been able hitherto to continue tneir
education, but must (hortly give it up. The
eldest is fourteen, and the younger about e
leven years of age. A small matter would,
enable her to continue them at an aaademy,
and save some real property,' with which
they might begin the world when they are
of age : fay three thousand dollars : What
would this be to the fund of the United
States; and how much to their glory? At
the fame time that it would be honourable to
the public, it would be a delicate compli
ment to the memory of general Butler, to
have this notice taken of his sons; adopting
them in a degree by the (late, and taking
that care of them, which the fortune of war
put itoutof their fathers power to do_
The general was certainly a deserving of
ficer; and distinguished hijnfelf on many and
great occasions, particularly at Saratoga, at
Stoney point and at Monmouth, where the
bayonets of his regiment checked the Brit
ish horfc and covered the retreat of the troops
under genaral Lee. At the flege of York
town also, in running the second parallel;
The battle of the second of Nove raber 1792
where he fell, was the loth in which he had
been present; and his condudt on that d3y,
though unfuccefsful, did not disgrace his
former reputation.
I (hould think under all the circum
stances of this cafe, it is hard that his chil
dren (hould not be provided for in such a
manner as to introduce them into life "with
some refpeftability. The son of General
Mercer who fell, at the battle of Trenton
hasbeen taken careof. On the fame principle
I would have something done for the sons
of General Butler.
Shall monarchy have this advantage over
republics ; that there is a greater capacity,
or at least greater habit in the government
to compensate individual services, by the
special interposition and muniiceuce of the
Prinee ? The history of Greece and Rome
affords at least some instances where the in
digent worthy, who had fought glory and
despised wealth, was buried, at the public
charge ; and his daughters endowed in mar
riage and his sons educated after his death.
It is impossible by a general law to reach
particular cases. The danger is that appli
cations will be frequent.. Better this, than
what would in faft be injustice ; or if not
injustice, at least a great impeachment of
national honour and generosity, and, which
mult sap that very virtue in the bosom of
the public rtian which is the principle of a
republic, who will fcrve in the field at !
least with enthusiasm where life is most un- j
certain, when he reflefts that extra courage 1
and extra service if I may so express it,
will not be able after his death to procure
the babes which he leaves behind more at- '
tention from the parent state, than thofeof
him whose mind has never risen beyond the j
idea of mercenary pursuits, and the aug
mentation of hiteftate ?
I fugged these things to you, either that
you may romnr.unicate them to some mem
ber of Congress, or give them to a Gazette
if you think they <nay ia any degree contri
bute to incline the attention of the public :o .
this fubjeft."
m.O M THE At,?Q2 A- I
Rcmrrlj nn the p:cre Jjgrirri " /In adntr.-r nf
■ the true American churaSir," in Monday's
G at.it te of tap Uuitcd States.
VVhat diliintfion does our conQitutioti
make between foreign born citizens and the
■ satire born ? Only that such of the former
j clsfs as hare come to this country since its
_ ! adoption qannot.be ehofen to the office of
r President of the United States ; all other
t ; offices are as much within their reach, as
. ! within that of native citizens. The eonlti
j tution is then arraigned, when attacks arc
_ thus made upon that class of citizens. In
reason *nd in faft, what is the diltinftinc
tioiftetween the foreign born, and native
, citizen ? Truly it is in fa»or of the former ;
, he is a citizen of the United States from
, choice the latter from chance.
, Again ;is not Mr. Lyon a reprtfenta
_ tive of the people ?.s well as Mr. Hnrperor
any other ? And in it not agsinft the pro
, feffed principles of the United Suites' Ga
i vettc to attempt to discredit ope of the nr-
I gans ef the people's voice, a member of
: one of the constituted authorities of the
, Union.
1 But Mr. Lyon underwent a term of fer
. vice as the price of his pafTage from En
: rope. He was poor. This a.dreadful dig
ma. But art not many of the honorable
. federalifts now poor, though they live in
splendor at the expence of their .honed cre
ditors? It surely is to the honor of Mr.
Lyon, that from a low beginning he has
: raised himfelf to competency by iaduflry
and acquiredtuch a (landing among those
I he lives with, as to be appointed to one of
j the firft Rations in their gift. None but a
1 proud, prejudiced and felfifh being, an aii
ftocrat in grain, will quarrel with a man be
cause he did not draw his firft breath on the
fame spot with himfelf, or will reproach
him, because the consequence he has acquir
ed in wealth and station, was not bequeathed
to him by his ancestors, but earned by his
own industry and merit.
Answer to tie above.
MR. FEVNO,
In the Aurora of this morning, Mr.
Bache very much disapproved of my vindi
cation of tho national charadter of the U
nited States.
I mentioned that " Mr. Lvon was born
' n Ireland and fold in the United States,
for his passage hither," not as a fault in
him ; but in order to account, from his ed
ucation, for the indecency with which he is
charged—lt is probable, from the manner
in which he came to this country, that he
was among Jthe lower class in his native
country.
Neither ought what I said, to be consid
ered as a refledlien upon foreigners general
ly, who come here. Upon all, who turn "
demagogues the moment they are landed ;
upon all, who profefs a supernatural affec
tion for this country and hatred to their
own, I am willing it Ihould be so consider
ed. Btrt I know of many foreigners, who
are not of this description ; men of modes
ty ; men of worth ; men, who, for the
value of tKe numerous advantages this coun
try fields, are willing to submit to the ve
ry few reftraintc, its government imposes.
But wily docs Mr. Baehe wish that Mr.
Lyon's indecency flujuld be thought char?
afteriftidtof this.country ? Is it because he
vyifhes to fee his country funk in ignominy ?
If Mr. Bache wishes that Mr. Lybn's con
duct ftiould be thought charafteriftick of
the editor of the Aurora, I be
lieve all the people will fay amen : but
he must excuse the great mass of Ameri
cans from btlieving, that such infamy is at
tached to their chara&er.
An admirer of tht true American charaSer.
Feb. 8, "98.
TRANSLATION.
The hi/lory of arts has made a valuable etcqutfi
tion by the raising of an excellent iron bridge over
the Strigoiv ttfck at Laalan in Upper Silejia,
which has been Jtn'tfhed last fummtr. All the
iron requifitefor tbertmcutinnof this undertaking,
•was fnrnifhed by the forge ofMai apart, belonging
to Count de Surghauft, vii.
Cast iron 93191 l-2lb.
Forged do. '459
■weight of the bridge 94650 1-2lb
This work was completed in ten weeks by sixty
persons who were employedforging and cajling
iron, transporting the materials to the spat and
in raiftng the fabric. The whole expences
amount to s,2lopollers and 20 cents.
Tht bridge is 52 ( Rhemjh) feet long and
I Sfe et wide. The arc in its greatejl width con
tains 40 feet and is 9 feet high. 7he ground
workof the bridgeconfijlsof ten iron half -circles,
thepainted end of which, on one fidefit into holes
made for that purpose, in tht pedejlals, and on
the other, they enter into a kind of a key-bar of
cqfi iron, which forms the center of the bridge
and weighs 2,4.00 lb. The pame of the forge
Mtlapan and from which allthe iron was taken
and the date of the ereSion are inferibtd on the
elegant front pieces of this centre-bar. The
pedeflals are of frreflone,tovercdwith iron plates,
into which holes are made for the reception of the
pointed ends of the half circles. The latter are
are, covered with iron plates 18 feet long, &
having each on the inside five notches, which Jit
to the edged backs of the half citde, & keep them
at the proper dijlanie from each other. Certain
! cross bands of cut iron, which are fajlened by
I means of screws & form c kind of a net on the
j concave fide, prevents the bridge from inclining
' towards either fide. The of the bridge, have
! the shape of a corni/h fupperting elegant ballujlers
1 and lanthorn pofls, with handsome iron bajkets,
!cn which reft globes of glafsfor the reception of
' lamps. The furface of the bridge, is covered
j with find and gravel eighteen inches deep. On
; each Jide is afoot way paved with free Jlone.
The heaviejl waggons and artillery pass over
this bridge vithout making any fenftble agitation.
We have been thus particular in giving an ac
count of theJlrußure ,coflls c. of the above bridge,
hecdufe -if is pofftble that some hints on the fub
jcß, added to a proof of the prachcability may
\esuHeftme of our country men to imitate, or even 1
improve the European plan, and render the th
■ vention ufejul to the United States, It seems
that a thing of this kind might be undertaken
with advantage in parts remotefrom theft a, and
in the •dicinity of forges.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
THURSDAY FEBRUARY 8.
Mr. Bayard, from the committee appoin
ted to prepare and report an uniform fydem
of bankruptcy, reported a bill, which was
committed far Monday week.
Mr. Dwight Foster from the committee
of claims, made an unfavourable report on
the petitions of fohn Connor and William
Hughes, who prayed for depreciation.—
Concurred in.
The house again resolved itfelf into a
committee of the whole on the report of the
committee of privileges, Mr. D-nt in the
chair: when Mr. Van Cartlandt was called j
upon to give an account of what'he knew
of the fuhjaft.
Mr. Van Cortlandt said he knew nothing
aboutthe business except what he had learnt
from Mr. Lyon since the affray happened.
Mr. Gordon observed that as the gentle
man (Mr. Brooks) who wished his|col)eagHie
to be -sworn, was not then in the house, he
hoped the other gentleman who had been
sworn would be examined.
Mr- Lyon said, the reason which had in
duced him to requed some gentlemen to be
sworn who were present at the conversation
betwixt him and the Speaker, was, that he
did not think it had been related to his ad
vantage; but he had since thought it was
unneceffaty to examine them. If the com
mittee wilhed their examination, he should
not oppose it, but he had then no desire to
have it
Mr. Bracks having come into the house
he said, what he wished his colleague to'
prove was, that this was not the firft time
Mr. Lyon had had fracas with Members of
a Legislature.
Mr. Lyon said, gentlemen wished to blow
hot and blow cold. At one time it was said
he received affronts with impunity, and at
others that he was very irritable. He sup
posed the committee were already clear he
was irritable enough; if not, he was ready
to confefs it.
Mr Harper did not think this fort of
tedimony proper; as it would be introdu
cing particular faCls to impeach a man's
chara&er, which he was not prepared to
meet, which was not admitted in auy court
of judice.
The tedimony of Mr. Van Cortlandt was
not heard.
The clerk then proceeded to read over
all the evidence which had been given to the
committee; in the course of which, some
additional quedioni were put and answered.
The reading of the evidence by the clerk
being finifhed,) and all the queftioni put u|>-
on it which occurred to gentlemen,
The Chairman read over the refolutiun
which had been reported by the committee
of Privileges, for the adoption of the.house;
which was in the following words :
" Resolved, That Matthew Lyon, a
member of.this house, for a violent attack
and gross indecency, committed upon the
peffon of Roger Grifwold, another member,
in the presence of the house while fktisg,
be for this diforelerly behaviour expelled
therefrom."
Mr. Lyon rose, and fpokc as follows:
Mr. Chsirman, I feel myfelf extraordinarily
tircumftanced, and secidantully drawn into a
very f'erioui situation, merely by my ignorance ■
of the house of repieiVntatives being likely to
take cognizance of an aff.iir that happened
when the members of the nous* were at their
amusement and recreation ; when every one ■
wat doing that which was rijht in his own eyes.
Haw much I wasfupporttd in this opinion hy
the-condufl of the ip taker, every gentleman
may fee by hi« teliimony. He fat in a chair
within the bar facing me as I stood without it.
He spoke to me of my country, and the conduil
ot'feme people there coacerning the flamp a<S ;
it appears, I turned the conversation towards
Connedltcut; it appears 1 kad four or five other
gentlemen's wit and raillery to bear, and this in
the hearing c f the Cpcaker.
Does this look like the house being fitting ?
How could I imagine this house was fitting,
when the I'peaker fuffered me;o he Interrupted
when fp«aking,to him by the remarks and jokes
of four or five gentlemen ?
How could I imagine the house was fitting,
wh< n the speaker was joking me about an ern
baffy to Kjmfchatka amongthc fur tribe ?
How could I imagine the house was fitting,
when I heard, and knew the speaker heard Mr.
Giifwold insult me, without checking him ?
How c«uld I imagine ihe house to be fitting,
when the speaker fuFe ed Mr. Grifwold to
proceed a second time *ith the mod provoking
insolence ?
Had the house been fitting, I should not have
been called on by Mr. Dana, with refpeA to
something Mr. Williams had kid, coul'equently
I should not have entered into any convcrfatron 1
about Consedlicut —the speaker would not have
spoken to me of Vermont, and I (hould not have ;
again turned the fubjeift to Connedlicut.aed Mr. ,
Grifwold would have postponed his premedi-'
tated infuh : prtmeditated 1 fay, because it has
been pYoved that he had notice of my feelings
and my determiiaatinn on this fubje<3.
I» it proper to fay ths house was fittifig, while <
half the members were Handing round the bar, 1
the speaker engaged m a jocular coil verfatio*,
and the tew who remained in their feats, either ,
ia private conversation or writing letters f
But, Mr. Chairman, it seems, bv the course '
thii bufirefs has taken in the committee, that 1 '
am to We criminated for fiolt-ing an indelicate 01 '
unpo ire conversation within the liea ing of the f
gentleman from.Conne<2 ; cut. Every one knows t
that there are two riiPiercnt opinions entertain
ed in this country with themamgc- (
ment of the goveromen', ami every one who
knows me, knows that lam very free in speak- '
ing my opinion on these fuljefts. Thee are (
many, and I believe fume in ths house, who t
know something of the rough, illiberal manner c
in which 1 have been treated ir. the New ling- t
land newfpaperi, on account of ii:y political o- ,
pinion ; and I believe there are many perfoni in
this house who are well acquainted with the \
kind of politeness which the gentlemen from
Conne&icut make use of towards their oppo- J
nents ; and some are acquainted with the (hare i
.| of politeness which thofr gen'.' p.:.:, . Jttve
f I from me.
; 1 If the house are at a los, on this fttHje.f!. 'hey
, will, I hopej—.cur to the language maile use of
bv yir. Coit and Mr. Dana, in their tellimony ;
anff the house, I believe, will recollefl a speech
from a gentleman who fits behind me, in which
he told the committee twice or three titnes, that
I was no gentleman.
Again, I fay. Mr. Chairman, I am v.ry ex
traordinarily (ittiated. Evidence has beeti in
-1 troduced»into tiiis honle, to induce the members
| to believe that I left Pel. Warner's regiment
.■ with aiiQienor ; that I am a perfow of difrepufe ;
. j that I have been in the habit of receiving insult
, with impunity. Here I am 350 miles from
home, and frnm the svidence who are able to
fcew to the contrary. Had I a reasonable op
portunity, 1 could j:rove, by the lieutenant colot
: nel, who is rt-ow general Saffbrd, and Jeveral o
iher officers of that regiment—that when I left
i it, I left it with :he regret of much- the greater
. p n't ofthei'fTict:t-s,andall the soldiers. I mention
the lieut. colon. 1, because colonel Warner is
not livinp.
My certificate cf having fert.'ed my accounts,
which is at home, wculd prove my having done
my duty we'll.
Fcould prove my having taken my mufltet,
and mirrhed to the lines every day, during the
siege of Burgoyne I ftould not have mention
ed ihis circumflance, had not the fpealcer. men
tioned his liaving dons so when pavmafter.
I could ajHo prove, that when an officer offer
ed me an insult, I chastised him before the of
ficers of that regiment.
Mr. Champlin alked whether, the gentle
mrn said he had chastised an officer, or would
shaft !fe him ?
Mr. Lyon answered, that I had chastised
him.
I could prove that I took the commiffioa
in Colonel Warner's regiment, when I was
driven from my plantation by Burgoyne's
invasion ; that I resigned my appointment,
and left the regiment for the care of my fa
mily, for preferment, for honor, for supe
rior office ; and to serve the people of the
state of-Vermont.
I could prove, had I opportunity, that
I was immediately appointed deputy secre
tary of the State, payrnafter of the troops
of Vermont, assistant to the treasurer, aflift
ant to the cooiaiiflioner of loans, aad cap
tain of. the militia, befidfs being called on
to aft as private secretary to the governor.
I could also prove that within two years
from the time of that resignation, I was ap
pointed secretary to the governor and cohb
cil, a member of the legislature, clerk of
the house of assembly, one of a committee
for the colleftion and reviiion of
and to a number of other offices under the
authority of that state, beside a co»fider
able number of offices in the municipal ef
tablifliment of the town in which I lived, as
well as my promotion to the. command of a
regiment, and all this before I formed k
connexion with one of the most trfpeftable
families in the state. I could prove also,
that I have been a member of the legisla
ture of the state of Vermont, except two
years, ever since, that I hare been appoint
ed to many other important offices which X
did n#: think proper to serve, such as audi
tor of the treasurer's accounts, and judge of
the county where I live.
By these things, and my {landing in this
house, I could prove that I have always
been refpefted in the Country I represent,'
and where I have lived these twenty-four
years.
The free eledtors of my diffiri& have giV
en me a preference to a gentleman of vety
great reachability, one who fefved fix
! years with unimpeachable fidelity jjn this
house, and is now ohief jiifticeof the state
of Vermont, yet evidence has been adduced
to fnew that I am a person of disrepute.
As to my being iu the habit of receiviog
; insults with impunity, for which it feemi '
> Mr. Chipman's teftitnony was introduced,
were I allowed to call testimony from Ver
mont, I could very easily prove fa much
011 this head as, perhaps, to draw in ques*
: tion in the naiads of lorae gentlemen, that
| refpeaabiiity which, in every other refpeft
I attaches to my chara<s«r. Among other
things, I could prove that the gentleman
from Vermont, who was called to give testi
mony against me, has, with the politeneli
peculiar to a certain country which I will
not now name, insulted qac and received
due chaftileme'nt from m< for it.
Mr. Harper called to order. The gen
tleman from Vermont had already spoken
very improperly of witnesses, 3nd he now
spoke in a very reprehensible way of Mr.
Chipman. He hoped he would be admo
nished.
Mr. Otis differed iu opinion from the gen
tleman from S. Carolina. If the gentleman
thought it would be of service to him to
inform the committee that he had chastised
an officer in the face of his regiment, or
beaten a Judge of the Supreme Court, he
was right in llating the circumstances.
Mr. Harper said, if he wished to fee the
gentleman disgrace hmifelf, and the house,
he (hould not objeft to this mode of proccd
ing ; but he did not.
Mr. Lyon. It would be folly in me td
state any thing to this committee, thai I
cannot prove. Nor {hould I have mentioned
that circumstance had I not been charged
with receiving injuries with impunity. I ne
ver did receive injuries with impunity; nor
did I come here to do so,—l would sooner
leave the world. Mr. L. then'proceeded.
Were I to be allowed time to bring for
ward tellimony from Vermont,l could prove
that my character, as a man of spirit, Hands '
on such ground in my coustry, that I had
no need to defend it, by entering into a
squabble with fucn a chief justice in court
time.
If the proof of these things be eo&fidcred
of importance, t hope I {lull be allowed time
to fend to Vermont to obtain it {/or my
own pait I cannot so consider it, I mult
think that the House of Representatives
ought never to have taken up the matter,
of the difference between Mr. Grifwold and
myfelf, circutnflanced as it was ; and that
if the House thought otherwise, the due
fuUmiffion to thrir authority which I have
always stood ready to pay, ?nd the sorrow
whi«h I have exprefled, and am continuallyf-rre as some mitigation of an offence ej-rrrl
t'nediguity of this Hopfc, which I never '
could hare knowingly been gi'.iity us. i
Mr. Lyon having finifhed reading his de
fence. ; '
Mr. Champlin rose and said, it was ex- t
prefsly declared by the constitution, that ]
'♦ each heuf? may determine the rule of its r
proceedings, its members for diforr }
Vterly behavior, and, with the concurrence f
of two thirds, expel a member." And he
thought, they were called upon to exertife
the conftitmicnal power of expulsion, in
the present instance, by the refpeft due not n
oijy to thetnfehres as legislators, but to their p
constituents. And as they valued the repu- t
tation of the national legislature, both at e.
home and abroad, as they regarded the A- o
merican charafter,uninfluenced by the spirit v
of party, without taking into view the re- t
lative charafters of the person who offered,
and the person who received the insult, f
without attending to the infinite distance I
there was, between the em- and the other, t
they were bound to give their votes, upon o
the present occasion, undei the influence r
only of an high sense of duty and of honor, a
And under these impredions, he said, he
hdd attentively and impartially eonSdered r
all the circumftance3 of the present cafe, as t
they had appeared in And he r
found, it was that an offence c
of a gfofs and injurious nature had been a
committed by the member from Vermont
(Mr. Lyon) again ft ifye person of the mem
ber from Coonefticut (Mr. Grifwold) that 3
the conversation which produced an alterca- 1
lion between them origin?ted with the mem
btr from Vermont ; that it was a violent 1
asd groundless attack upon the public char- r
after of the member from Connsfticut ; in- 1
aftnucli as he was reprefen'td to be regard- '
left of the public good, and entirely a£tu- 1
ated by lelfifh fordid views ; that this inde- :
cent attack upon his political integrity was '
repelled by a retort that the occafjon fully
juftifitd ; that in consequence of that re 1
tort, the member from Vermont committed
within these walls, and whilst the house was '
fitting, the gross indecency Rated by the '
committee of privileges, and of which the
very Speaker of the house was an eye wit
htfs. And that the member from Connec
ticut, whose cheek glowed with indigna- '
tioh, and whose arm was nerted by the de
sire of vengeance, recollecting the place in :
w'dich he flood, and the refpeft due from
Jlim to that house repressed his resentment. ;
Mr. C. then observed, that the paflions 1
ef some men, had their feelings been thus 1
outraged by the member from Vermont,
would hive made him expiate the injury up
on the spot. For this outrage committed
fcy him bid defiance to order and decorum,
tended to degrade the members of that house
from the rank of men, and to reduee them
to a level with the meanest reptile that crawl
ed upon the earth.
He was therefore compelled to declare,
that, in his opinion, nothing short of a vote
that woul4 deprive the member from Ver
mont of a feat in that house, could vindicate
the honour of it; which had been deeply
wounded through one »f its members. He
was aware, he said, that the punifhsient of
expulsion was a severe one. And there was
.no mart, who had the feelings appropriate
to that charaSer, and whose miatj was form
ed cotnmon materials, but would be deep
ly affefted by it. ,It mult fix a stain upon
kirn who foffcred it, for a gross and fc?n
d'alous offence, "that the waters of the ocean
could net wash away. It-<hould, however
be recollected, that it was no farther aif
graceful, than as an unquestionable evidence
of thf gross indecency ;hat gave occasion to
it. Apd if a Cacrcd regard tojuftice, to the
»eprefentative eharafter they full allied, and
to their own honour, required that they
(hould inflift that puniftiment upon a mem
ber of that house, they ought not to start
at the effefts of it. For if the member
from Vermont Ihould be compelled to re
turn to his conftituenU, loaded with the op
probrium necessarily attaahed, in the present
instance, to the punifhmeiit contemplated,
they wohIJ have only to rrst the difgrace
ful circumstance, the painful neceflity that
had led to it. They would have discharg
ed their duty, and the honour and dignity
of the house would be preserved.
PENNS TL VAN 1A LEGISLATURE.
House of Representatives.
February 5.
Mr. Bonnett presented a petition from a
number of the inhabitants of the counties
of Bedford and Huntingdon, praying that
a law may be passed appointing commifiion
efs to fevife a part of the division line of the
said counties, which was referred to the
member# from the said counties.
Another petition was presented by the
fame member, from the inhabitants of the
county of Bedford, praying relief to Ditk
ifffon College.
,Mr. Kennedy presented another from sev
eral inhabitants of Cumberland a»d Frank
lin coianties, to the fame effect.
Mr. Evans presented two petitions on the
fobjeft of eteftian diftrifts.
Mr. Leib presented a petition from the
jtiftices of the peace and the fuperintendants
of the public markets in the Northern Li
berties praying thdt the powers of the clerks
of the several public markets in the said
Liberties, be extended so as to enable them
to detest and make seizures for fraads in ar
ticles fold by weight or measure.
M.r Frefton presented a petition from a
number of the inhabitants of the ftste, pray
ing that a law may be pafTcd, prohibiting
any perfen from felling fpiritous liquors by
the quart or gallon who is not well recom
mended by the inhabitants of the vicinity
amd Court of Quarter SefTions.
On «>otion reiolved, that h committee be
appointed to take into consideration the ex
pediency of making provision by law " for
filling the va<.;in y of Slate'Treafulcr dur- .
:r.g the recels < 1 he- I.tgiflature, if such
vacancy fnoi.jd li)p-i» 1 by death or other
wise." Ordered to lie on the table.
A bill fuppkmcntary to an aft entitled
" An aft for incorporating the society form
ed for the relief of diflreffed and decayed
Pilots, their widows and ehildren," was
read, and the further consideration of it post-
poned in ordur to introduce an additional
feftion. Adjourned.
February 6. •
Mr. Seott presented a petition from a
number of the citizens of Lancaster county
praying that 3 law may be passed to prevent
the removal of obilvuftions by persons noj
citizens of this state in the river Sufquehan
nah from Columbia to the Maryland line, .
which was read and referred to the commit
tee on roads and inland navigation.
Mr.'S. Maclay presented a remonstrance I
from a number of the citizens of Northum
berland county, remondrating againfl any
measure to prevent the removal of obftruft-
ons in the river Sufquehannah, which was
read and referred to the committee on roads
and inland navigation.
Mr. Scott presented a petition from a
number of the citizens of Lancaster coun
ty praying that a law may be passed autho
rizing them to ereA fifh ba/kets and fifh dams
on the river Sufquehannah, which was read -
and referred. j
Mr. W. Maclay reported a bill to pro- j
vide for unfatisfied warrants, which was read ,
and made th« order of the day for Friday
next.
Dr. Leib called for the second reading of
the report on the health laws, which was i
read and adopted and the committee who '
brought in the report was appointed to <
bring in a bill that part of the report which
lelated to watering the city was referred to
a committee already appointed on the fame
fubjtft.J |
The bill for regulating fences See. was
read a third time and passed.
The bill supplementary to the aft for in
corporating the pilots was read a third time
and passed.
The bill far the relief of David Jones
was read a third time and passed.
The bill to authorize the trustees of low
er Dublin academy to raise 5,400 dollars by
way of lottery was read a second time and
agreed to.
The bill to authorize Archibald'M'Guire
to ereft a wing dam on Connemaugh river
in Weftnsorehtd county was read a second
time and agreed to.
The amendments by the Senate to the bill
for the ereftion of a House for the employ
ment and support of the poor in the coun
ty of Chester were read a second time and
agreed to.
Mr. Bonnett called for the second read
ing of th» resolution for the removal-os the
feat of government, which was read and
made the order of the day for this day fort
night.
The bill to provide for recording the se
veral roads heretofore laid out and which
hereafter may be laid out in the county of
Philadelphia was read and agreed to.
Adjourned.
Flax Seed for sale.
App'y to
GEO. DOBSON,
No. ij, South Third-fireet.
January 17 4
Boitori Glals Manufactory.
'yHE citizens of the Unitn! States are here'ry
L informed, that the nunufa&ure «f Window
Gljfs is now commenced at the Glifs House in
Bt-lioti.
It i« needles« to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of theßoft 'ti Glass, as it is so well known
throi'gliout the I' nited States t» be in every ref
pe& greatly superior to any ever imported lroir.
Surppe.
It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
may be conflamly had by applying toCharUs F
theGlaC House
Orders from'the dillant States to be addressed to
Mr .Samuel Gore. Court-ftroet, 3oft' n.
£j" Two or three i;ood Glafsmak-rs art want
•d at the above works; such as can produce re
commendation! for gnod behavior, msybeiiireol
employ, by application to Mr. Gtvrge L. Lindt % at
the works. Men Without-families w ill be pre
ferred. Howevw unacquainted with the method
of making Crown Window GJafs, they will meet
with th« fame encouragement.
Boflon, January 16 a ~ law'iw
"House and Lots, in Burdeniown.
TO BE SOLD, a handsome two story House,
with the Lot on whieh i' is eredled, (ituat
ed about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
Village of UordentßWH. The hosfe is forty
two feet ill front, and in neat order. The lot
contains on? acre, and is one hundred feet on
the main street, and extends with the fame
breadth to back street. Also, a large Lot, con
taining nearly four acres, separated from the
former by back street. One third only of the
purchase money will be required upon execut
ing a deed, ar.d for the remainder, such crfdit
w.ll be given ai the purchifer may chnfe. This
property will be fold free of all incumbrances,
and an indisputable title given
For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnes, refidinjr in Berdentown, near
the premises, who will Ihew the fame, 01- of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, No. Market-llreet.
December i. jaw's
Princeton—Aew-Jerjey.
To be Sol J,
-"pHAT neat and convenient House in whieh
! 1 the late Mrs Af.n Witherfpoon, now Mrs.
Ann Walker lived ; t»f ether with all the ap
. purtenances. The hoafe is two stories high,
I of frame work and painted. - There are four
items and an entry on the lower floor, and five
' rooms on the second floor. The cellars are
dry, and the garret specious—The back yard
is pived with ftonts. la it are a well of exeel
l lent water, an nven, a fmokehoafe, and house
. for afiies—and behind it a carriage house, hay
r loft, £ra»ery, and convenient stables. with fonr
' flails for horses, and four for nea: cattle. The
' lot is 6n feet wide upon the street. and 154 feet
" deep, somewhat more than half of whi h it
r made into a kitchen garden of art excellent foil.
For terms, which will he maif* very reafon
c able, apply to the leverentl
Samuel S. Sfnith.
r January jy. ► 4i*4W
PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EVENING, FEHAUA.tr 9.
Charles Jolly, efqtitre, is elected a
Direftor in the Bank of Pennsylvania, in
the room of William Miller, esquire,
resigned.
The (loop An*, William- Baxter master
and owner, from Virginia to this port, load
ed with 450 bufliels of Ovllers, 2000 Te
vapins, and 3000 Staves, was loft last Sat
urday night, two mile 3 below Chester, in ,
five fathoms water. The (loop was drifting
in the ice, when (he was run foul of by a ,
brig, which had parted her 1 cable, and stove ,
in the (loop's quarter deck, rails, ft cm, &c.
The (loop then made fait to a schooner
which lay astern of her, by which means
the people saved their lives. The (loop
stink in about half an hour afterwards. By
this misfortune Mr. Baxter has loft his all,
as he had no insurance. It ia a bardccaste t -
and will donbtlefs arrell the attention of the
benevolent.
MR. r«NUO,
That the constituents of the friends and r
l'upporters of Lyon, may know the language
he uses in public debate; I fend you the fol
lowing specimen exhibited, in the close of
bis defence of this morning.
February 8.
Mr. Lyon at the close of his defence said,
gentlemen were willing to represent him'as
apcrfon who would fuffer himfelf to be kick
ed in the Arse.
1
{OMMUttIC.ITIONt.
It i- a fail no less Angular than true, that every
attack by tfcc " cxtiufroe fctrhu** againfc the gov
ernment of their country, has recoiled with dire
ful vengeance upon iheir own heads. Aci devant
fecrctary of ftatc. under ihe'ciivered titfe of a vin
dication of himfelf, avowed his defigii to be an at
tack upon the government. A ci-d'varit'mmilttr
to a certain republic, has writttn a book, swelled
to an enormous Eze by tTeachcrous commvmica
tions, which honor, a l'acred regard to duty, and
the bed interefH of his co-jntry ihoulJ have: forbid
a disclosure of, and with the avowed design of at
tacking the government. I a(k of you, well,
meaning citizens, who have no double dt(ign«, ard
love your country,—what has been the result of
their attacks—have they not convifled before your
tribunal the very ingenious authors, themfelv-s—
---have no*, those coloflian (latefmen, who would for
cibly have possessed themselves of all rule, who
had dared to reject the control of the authority
you had- appointed to control and inftruft them,—
bong up themselves on the unrufting wires of pub
lic indignation ?
From the New Torle Gazette.
Meffri. M'Lean & Lang,
LIBERTY is the agony of the day—the
rage for it is universal, and every thing Di
vine and Human must he new modelled to
suit the public taste.
Politicians, Infidels, and Enthusiasts, arc
united, (or appear to be united) in accelera
ting the arrival of Halcyon Days. Tyran
ny, civil and ecclesiastical, and indeed all
old fafhioned Rejlrainti upon the freedom of
Free Born and Noble MAN, will most like
ly be foou destroyed.
The Golden age must be cammeneing,
and the era of no government, must be at
no great diilance.
Reason and Philosophy are about to at
chievewonders—Reafoa and Common Sense
will foori be difcarded'as uftlefs t'riflers !
No fpecics of (lavery (hail disgrace the
anfials of our approaching philosophic age.
Every man (hall do what is right in his own
eyes 1 Magistrates and Priests (hall be con
fidered'as usurpers 1
We .(hall require no Laws, as we (hall all
be Philofopbers—we shall all be ftriclly mo
ral, and consequently will do no wrong !
Hir/.za ! Huzza ! May every citizen ex
claim 1 May all the thoughtful in the Uni
ted States cry out Ca Ira ; and every ra
tional inhabitant of the fame unite in an
Hymn to VENUS. No Rcligfon ! No
Priests ! .No Magistrates 1 What an happy
period! Every individuals heart will be chan
ged into a teasple 1 His conscience be a
perfeft Counfelior, and hi, opinions his
GOD !
Indeed we (hall require no Teachers of any
dafcription. The air will be impregna
ted with Science ! and all who breathe it,
will becqme fcholarsof eftabliftiedeminence !
Industry may then lay aside her various
inftrumentsas nolonger needful : Commerce
unfurl her fails, and the Farmer destroy his
plow and harrow 1 The scythe maybe chan
ged int« a pot-hook or trammel ; «nd the
hoe be converted into a frying pan or grid
dle;
But it is uncertain whether food will be
expedient in the polished age I am defcri l
bing ! Perhaps we fliall be too refined to
require a l ny species of nouriihment—perhaps
we shall be full fed with philosophy—and
our food and drink be the contemplation of
her nutritive maxims.
Those buildings once called Churches
(hall be changed into Theatres, 9cc. Plays
comic and farcical, (hall be a&ed, where we
tfbee met for what we one® called Divine
Wor(hip! We will aflemble to dances and
sing where we once aflembled to pray. •
No Sabbath (hall disgrace our happy cal
■ lander—We will uaaoimoufly accord to a
• bolilh it forever.
Matrimony (hall be unknown, We will
declare it an useless ceremony, and condemn
I it ilemine co»tradicente, .
We will decree, and our dearees m'ift
t surely be irreversible! That ho man (hall be
r more wife more .virtuous, more wealthy
than another.
: • No titles, and other odious diftin&ions
t fliall be known amongst us. The servant
(hall take the lead ofhis mailer, and when,
- ever he pleases, be permitted to itifuk and
abnfe him.
j But upon our plan, there can be no such
thing as servant—The NAME fliall be era
/tl (trull out lilt of thing;—C'j'Ktl i4i ra.iV.,
abilities and turrit.!
The foolilh' custom? now i-j'Jcd decency,
and good manner*, (hall be entirely
fide. W« will refpeit no man and honor
none. To remove our hats to a 'ellow be
lno ' n '" declared Junlatry. I<3 bow, (
with our bodies, kif» our hands in passing,
or any fnch nrsrfice, (hall be perfeit exclu
de ri frofa all the rights of citi'zenftiip.
The words Sir, Madam, &c. (hall be dr
nounctd7 and (hould any dare to use thera,
he (hsll be esteemed an out-law-
The book called the Bible, fliall be imme
diately burnt, and Mr. Paine's Age of re;v
fon, with a few other admirable works,
(bound together) shall be fubfVituted in its
place.
The Creeds, Peter Nofter, with all Pray
er Books and Psaltn Books, (hall also by a
public decree, be forever abollftied (hould
any individual presume to use, nay even
mention them, he fhsll be called Bloelhead,
and guillotined at the Tribunal of LIBER
TY.
Should any member of our lefined Com
monwealth, dare to lisp the words, King,
Queen, Lord, Lady, Worship, Honour or
Excellency—He (hall be tried at the judge
rfient feat of EQUALITY, and murdered
at thethrone of J USTICE ! Previous,how.
ever, to the condemnation, he shall b; made
'to deliver an Oration in favour of Liberty ;
and if he executes this hufinefs fati.fa&ori
ly, he (hall escape dtJJc&Qn, which othetwife
(hall be h s portion.
If the Liberty feme men dream of, and
the Equality, they , appear to pant for, is
not related to the ideas communicated in
this paper—-The writer is greatly deceived.
The opinions of their votaries, may not to
them appear equally chimerical. But redu
ced to practice, would pr#ve equally de
ftrudlive of all order, harmony and subordi
nation.
The age in which we live is highly spe
culative, and much folly, and no little cru
elty ii engraven upon the corner-stone of
our proceedings—ail extremes are alike dan
gerous, and unite in one centre —Excefiive
Liberty is the consummation of Tyranny.
MIRROR.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
Philadelphia, Feb. 3. 1798.
Six Per Cent. 16/8
Three per C«it. lofx
Deferred 6 per Cent. I
BANK United States, 20
North America, $a per cent.
InfuranceCo. Pennsylvania, 20
N. A. (hares 41 dividend off.
~. - .
In St. Paul's Church, Difcoarfes will
We delivered next Sunday in favour of the
poor, and charitable contributions made.
The Eastern Miil had not arrived i
when this Paper went to Press. The South
ern Mail brought nothing new.
HARRISBURGH, Jan. 31.
There never was, since our prison has
been built, a greater Bumber of criminals 1
at one tinae, to difrGRACE it.— Last week
another candidate of Belzebub was added
to the infernal crew, charged with fettrng
fire to a dwelling-houfc, near the borders
of this county, while the people were gone 1
to meeting.
Last Friday night, an attempt was made
tohurn the goal in this town, supposed by
fdme of the criminals ; but after the fire
had penJtrated through the floor, and the
coals dropping on one confined in the dun
geon below, who finding his fixation rath
er critical, was ohliged to give the alarm—
when tjh fc'ire was in a (hort time extinguish- ,
cd " . . .
Mucb praise is due to captain Henry
Connolly, and Berryhill, and the gentle
men belonging to their companies, who
voluntarily forma fufficient guard each night,
to prevent the criminals from having any
opportunity of making their efeape.
To Persons desirous of inverting
money to great advantage.
AN opportunity i« offered to purchafr a very
valuable concern in certain I.and?
in the Diftria of Mains) which were conveyed to
William Bingham, Kfq. by the Commonwealth gf
Maflaehufetts, on the 28th January, 1795, 3t-d
wheli arc at prcfent held by Mr. Bingham, MeilYt.
Hope and Co. of Amrterdam, and Meftrs. Sanng
' and Co. of Lcndon.
Particnla rs rtfpe»Sling the lafids, and terms of
the present fuie, will be made known by applying
at the office of tills Gazette.
February 9. , §it3aWtf
FOR SALE,
By WHARTON LEWIS,
No. 115 Stuth Front Street.
A quantity of Tai.nrr's Oil,
1 4th proof Jamaica Runs, ") entitled to
111 and 2tl proof Brandy, > drawback.
I Madeira Wine,
c Juniper Berries, &c. &e.
Feb. 9. » eod'f
5 SL Croix Sugars.
5 26 hoglheads best ST. CKOIX SUGAR>
FOR SALE BY
; JOHN NIXON & Co.
1 Feb. 9 Im&wtf
• To Cabinet Makers, Joint is, tffc.
Cavanagh & Hfearn,
Pine fireet, netr the New -Market,
I ETURN thank* to their friends and the
1 J\. public, for their liheral encouragement,
and hope, by their unremning attention, to
merit a continuance of their favors. The part
e nerftip between them and Joseph B.Barry, has
been difli'lved by mutual content. Cavar.agh
f and Heart) hawji.ft received a quantity of St.
Domingo and Honduras Mahoguay, which they
* intend to (cil on very 1 eafonable terr'u forcafh.
t Orders from the country moll pwnitvilly exe
1, cute'd. Vineers of all kinds cutis ui>)al.
Jan. ij. aaw 4 w
Hylon and Voung Hyloij Tea.
h A few che!isof eic-l.ent quality, for sale, cor
-- ncr of Secood and Pine £rc«t(. D#c aC—cots
NKW-nib^TRE.
FRIDAY EVENING,
FEBRUARY 9.
Will be prffert«d, a cciebia;ed TRAGEDY,
, called
Alexander the Great ;
Or, THE RIVAL QU T.NS
Alexander, Mr F<*rnell
(being his fuft appearance in thatrharaifler)
HeplwJtion • Wa*fell,jue.
I.yfimachvs, Harainge
Cafiinder Pox
Folyperchon, Taylor
Philip. Hunter
Clytns, , Warren
ThcflaUii, Worrell
. Pferdicas, Bliflett
Eumenea, T. Warrell
Slave, Matthew
(firft time here) Mrs. Merry
Sytigambis, Mrs. L'Efti ange
Parifatis, Miss I.'Eltrange
Statira, Mrs. Marl) all
in Aft 11. I'he Grand Tiinmphal Emry of A
lexander into Babylon ;
The vocal part? by Mtflrs. MarlfcaH, Darley,
Warrell,. Warrell, jifti. and Lavanty—Mrs
Oldrn xoa, Mrs Warrell, Mils Milbourne,
Miss Anderfoß, &c. &c.
To which will be addtd, a COMIC OPERA,
called
The Poor Soldier.
r- ir. with'ihe favourite Kuntinff
Capta.n Fitzrpy, 0I theTwinsofLaton f,
Mr Darlcy
FctberLuke, Wanen
n<rmat, (fir ft time.) Fox
Patrick, lia dingt
Darby, (firft time oa this stage) fit-Vard
Bagatelle,(wiihti foil {fin chara >er) Marlhall
Boy* "iflaftci Wa.rell
r o-ah, Mn» vVarrell
Kathleen, Mrs Oluftjixon
Box. one Dollar ; Fit- tiirec qyartfrs of a Dol
lar ; and
Ji» doors of. the Theatre will open at five,
and the <urtair. rife precifcljr at fix *>\'lcek •
Places tor the Boxe* to be taken at the Office ia
the front of the Theatre, from ro tiil 'i 6Vta.ck>
and from ic til 1 4on the days of j^rformamqe-
Tickets to be had at H.aud P. Rice's hook-store,
No. 50 Markefftreet" and at the Office adjoining
the TSiarc. FIVA T
City (Jommiiiioner's Office,
"January nth, 1798.
FOR THE INFORMATION nF TH t CITIZENS.
TUB following arrangement is made by the
said commlfiioners, for clejnfing the
streets, See
Diltriil No 1. —From the north fide'of Vine
flreet, to thefouihfide of Mulberry itrset; tu
be under the fuperintendance of Nicholas Hicks.
2 From the foiith fide of Mulbrry flreet, t»
the south fide of Skefnut flrreet, to be under the
fuperimendance of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut flreet to
the north fidt'jpf Spruce street,. to be under the
fuperintendance of Joteph Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of Spruce street, to the
south tide of Cedar Street, to be under the fu
perintcndance of Hugh Roberts. mwfim
Lately Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, cornej of
Second knd Chefnut streets,
( Price 3- 8 ths nf a dollar J
Observations on certain Documents
Contained in No. V* and VI of
9t The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the cii.\rce cl p ulation ag^inft
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretar\ of th kf.m»ury, is f LJILY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF
Th!« publication prslcnts a toncife iiatcmtnt of
th«* basts meac« pra<stif. A, by the Jaco! ins o? the
United State?* to asperse the ch..r<tder < cf thole
p?ri'ons who are eonfidered as. lv ile their d.for
gartizir.g fchehies. I r . also contains the crrefpon
-denct between Mr. Hamilton an Monroe,
Muhlenburg and Venable, on the fubje'ikof the
documents aforefaid, and a fer is of letters from
Jamt-s Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Hamilton,
proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt, that the
eo- ion-between him and Reynolds vYas the re-
I fultot a d iri:*; oil the part of the lat
ter and his aflbciates >o extort inoncv.
| '~y \ difconnt of ont third from" the retail
price will be made in favor of whilefale pu xha
iers, for cash. Orders to be addrefled to Mr,.
Youko.
February 9.
Bafkenridge—for sale
TT conGfts of 920 acres, ilr.ioft all of which it
a fine rich Meadow, (the residence of the late
Rurl 9i Stirling). It may be conveniently dixided
intofive farms, /our of which are bounded on-the
Ea»"t by the river
Th-r- are on it a number of buildings, forming
a square of nearly three acres—The dwelling house
ii a vary convenient or.e and t a Imaliexpence would
put it in convplete repair.
The orchard conulis of 1500 fitubearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—an i there is on other ptrts ot said
tract near 300 other Apple Trees—as a!fo a great
varie'y of ocher fruitt, particularly Cherties of the
belt and inott delicious kinds*
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotic? and
Forest Trees, that add to ths beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Irs (ituation is about iS miles
from the towns of Newark and.Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in cast, on delivery of the deeds. Pleafc to (in
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chefnut treet.
February a. eodtf
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-east corner of W*l«
nut and Fifth fireefs, fnnting the State-
Hrufe square. This lot i» fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there art at
prefer! two small two story bri«k houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Alfa, f»r Salt,
Two three story Brick floufes
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. on
Water street, between Mulberry an l Safiafr'as
Street*, containing in front «n Water ftr.eet ftf
;y-four feet, and containing that breadth eafl
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to'the
south th-rtecn feet fix inches. These houfei
have the convenience of a publ't alley adjoin
ing on the ooith fide, and I* l ** Very defiraMefit
uation far a a merchant, flour factor, oc others
who mqy have occafien for Horage of goods.
This property will be fu'd on reafonable
terms for rath. For further irforreation ipplf
to the printer.
July 31. m&wt:Public S.\le of Real Ellates.
On THURSDAY Evening, the 15th of
FcWru try next, wilt be eicpofed to Public Sale,
at ti ' Vlerch int.* Ooffce-houf in Second- flpeet,
at 6 o'clock in the evening, the following
ESTATES.
No, I. A two story brick House, with t tw»
lli»ry Buildings, on a lot ao feet front and
lot sept deep ; also, a vacant Lot of 4° cc t iquare,
with the privilege of an alley to go thereto. This
interefl has lately b;en let for 200 dollars per an
num, and is firuated in Christian-street, between
front and Second streets, the second house from
Mr. Cileb Aflj's.
No l! A three story brick House, situate at
the »orthcaft corner of Chefnut (Meets, being 14
feet on Second-street, and 20 feet on Chefnut
ftrct, now in the tenure of Mr. Morangc, at the
yearly rent of 400 dollars, and is deemed one of
the best ttands for the sale of dry goods in this city.
No. 3. A handsome well tinilhed three story
brick House, aofeet front and 109 feot deep, situ
ate in Fifth-ftreet, between Market and Arch
ftreet#, No. 40. This 1 oufe is built and finifljed
in the modern style, is in complete repair, with
double cellars under the whole. Thei eis a cistern
of rain water in the yard ; and the house is at pre
fect let for 600 dollars per annum with the taxes.
No. 4. A three story brick House, situate in
P(>imb-ftreet, between Second and Third street,
being ao seA front and 13® f cct deep, at present
occupied by Robert Kenny-
No. 5. A three story brick House, on the bank
fide of Front-street, No. 171 North, going thro'
to Water-street, where it is five story. ft is 10
foct front and 48 feet deep, in complete r«pair,
and is rented for 600 dollars per annum.
The conditions of Sale are, o«e quarter cash,
One quarter in 6 months, one quarter in 9 months,
and one quarter in I a months.
Philadelphia, fan. la, 1798. 3^ls^
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, proposing to contrafi" his bufi-
Bess, offers this Eftjie for sale, on moderate
terms. O* it are one Blast and three Air Furuaees,
a complete Eoreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair »f stones ; also a good Forge, all
in perfeft repair, as aie all the Water Works connect
ed with thele various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built tor the pnrpofe of calling Cannon
for this State. —There are about two thousand acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing tbe bett Hay and
Failure. The Cannon lately mannfailured
folly proves the excellency of the metal, which is
(uperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not oue of Gxty-nioe guns
lately made, although some of the 24 were bored
into 32 pounders, have failid on proving. The fi'o
*ion is- very eligible, particularly fcr this branch of
Jnaoufaftufv, and a place of arms lying in the state ;
Of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from several land ■
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can result trom a plenty of water ifnn;
fiom a U'ge natuiai pond, very near the Furnace,
and whi h may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. Ihe purchafcr can be accommodat
es with all the (lock and utensils, and have p.fleffion i
on Or before the firlt of June next, and preparation
may be made in the mean time for goi.g into Blall im
mediately thereafter, (or every pan will be delivered
io good order, with some coal, Ore, Sec. &c. For
term", apply to iVIr. Joseph Anthony, in Phillde!-
phiaj » >Ud Brooks, E'q. one of the Rcprcfentauves
:n Co grc Ci lor this Stale ; Mr, JD. vid \Vatrrrr,3n, on
tb«p ■ iiifes, or totheprooiietot in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
rtoc. 1. ..a'y.tf
Recently Publjhed,
A -A ju-1 imported from England, by William
Gfci:/fitas, No. 177, "SourhSeCotid ftrd6t, itid
be had of Mora > n j. Rhee4,
AChciijj and valuable work, in two clofeiy
prinre«l volumes .in Bvo. (price 3 dollars)
Illuftraiions of Prophecy :
In which are etocida!ed manry prediAiotis, which
occur in Isaiah, Daniel, the writings ot the Evan
geliiL?, and book ol Revelation ; which are tho't
to U>retell othsr great events, a rev.ol«tion ■
in OTaiitie, favorable to the interests of minkifid,
the overthrow of the papal power and of eccleli
aftical tyranny, the downfall of civil
and theiubfequent laelioratioo of the ftatu of the
World : tegttker with
A large collection of Ext rails,
laterfpuftd t'arough tH: work, aad taken from
numcr jus rorr.mentators, particularly from j
Joseph Mede, Sir lfaac Newton,
Mr. William Lowth,
Dr. Th. Goodwin, Fleming,
Dr. Hemy More, Bengeliua,
Dr. John Owen, Daubut,
Dr. Crcifener, Whitby,
Pccer Juricu, 1 owman,
BrinUis, Bifcop Newton, and
BiUiop Bifhop Hurd.
By JOSEPH LOMAS TOWERS.
BeSdes various other inquiries treated of in
this work, and numerous illustrations of prophecy ;
t. contains a conQderable number of fails or cb
fcrvations on the symbolic language of prophecy,
tbe authen'Jcity, ules, and ©V-fcurity of the apo
calypse, and thegenuinenefs of the Hebrew pro
phet?; 0 1 the rapid corruption of christianity in
the fourth cen-ury ; on the difpenion and reftora
tior of the Jews, the history of the falfe Messiahs
who have appeared among them, and the rcafons
in support of the conjeflure that the Afghan# are
the dsfccndants of the tc» tribes; on the right of
rufiftai ce to oppreflion ; oa the irruptions of th*
northrrn nations, and the causes of the declise and
fall of the Roman empire .; on the customs of the
Tartars, and t!;e independence of the Arabs ; on
»he conquests of those nations, and those ot the
Turks ; on the usurpation of the Mamalukes, and
th« past history and present state of Egypt; on
tbe charaiScr and conduct of Conftaritine, Jullini
n, Clovis, and Lewis XIV ; on the scarcity of
hooks in the dark ages, and the caufts of the de
cline of literature ; on th# rapid rife of the French
monanhy, and the causes of its fall; on the in
cqnfiftencies in the political characters cf biOiops
Newton and Hurd ; on the peculiarities of Dr.
Th. Burnet's theory of the eacth ; on the beneficial
eflefls which ehriftianity has produced in favor ol
learning and civil liberty, and its tendency to pro
mote the eftablifhmcnt of equal governments.
ludrpeodent of the large proportion of original
matter contained in these volumes, those who are
Intcrefted in thefubjeft will, it isprcftimed, wish
to peruse or confaltthcm, becaufe,the extracts in
troduced ia them, which are accurately cited, and
marked with inverted commas, are taken from a
greater number of writers on the prophecies (a*,
lraft if the roman catholic commentators be ex
cluded) thai arc eafilj accefliblii to any ene indivi
dual even in Europe, or are probably to be found
in any one library in the world. They arc fur
niihed with indexes, and a co- ious table of con
tents. J nn a a—lawjw
Imported inthefhipMANCHESTER,
Benjamin Shewell, Mafttr,
From Bourdeaux, and for sale by the subscriber,
No. ii Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy "1
Irish market claret in cases ( Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. f Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatrsyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter calks
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bulbels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf
W. Haydon
Delineator of Drawing—from London,
(Where he has ku'died several years under one of
the mod eminent mailers in that science)
TKFOR.MS his friends, that he has re-commeno
X ed his privaro tuition.—Terms, as usual, Six
Dollars per month, for attendance three tjros'v a
vreek. jLikewife, all kinds of Ornamental Paiut
ing, fruit, flow.rs, See. taught on the above teijjpsr.
W. H. flatters himfelf his tejms will be pirtittr
larly advantageous to those tliat employ him, as
he makes no additional charge if there are two
pupils in one family.
A line directed to W. H. left at the office of this
Gsaette, will be immediately attended^.
January 9. 4 §*w
To Be Sold,
Agreeably to tht last will and t«fian*nt of
Willi* m Hctsham, decralrd, and poff-f
---fion given immediately, a valuable property in Arch
street, between Third and Fourth .treats, confid
ing of the house, No. 107, with the lot on which
it is eredtcd, a liable, and other improvements.—
The house it 10 foet front, and contains ten goad
Apartment*. The lot is of th« fame breadth ai the
house and 109 feet deep, with a well of water and
a very capacious walled cittern, both with pump*
in goop repair. The ilable stands on the rear of
the lot and will accommodate four horses and a car
riage. This property enjoysthe perpetual privilege
of a 26 foet court andan alley, & feet wiio,ext«ii 1-
ing to Citrry Street. Its central position and the
advantage* it peffeffes with refpeA to free ventila
tion, renders it will wdrthy the attention of ary
perfan wiflting to poiTsft r.n eligible property in Phi
ladelphia,
For further particulars enquirefat No 28, Vine
Street—of
ReabkT HtysWAM,
or >Afling Executors.
FRANCIS Bowis SAYR*, j
January II 5
The Subscriber
INFORMS thofs whom it may interest or con
cern, that the Jndg.s of the Cfurt of Common
Pleas have appointed AfonJay, tbe tioentyjitth day of
February next, t» hear him and his Credited, at the
Court-Koufe in this city, on the fubjc& of his peti
tion for the benefit of the Info Went Law—and
that their att*ndatn» is defined.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
PhihMptm, Jan. l(>. eotaflthF
"The Subscriber intends to-pake
application f«r the iroewol of a Certificate of a Shtre
io the Baftkof the United States,Hlanding in I'ie name
of A.B. No. 5004, dated July n, 1797' thc fr,mc
havmg*been loft. JOHN GRAHAM*
j Richmond, Dec, i.
The Subscriber,
Informs those to whom he is indebted, that his
books, which have been kept open for their infpcc
tion since December 1796 are balanced to the 31 ft
ult. and will during the present month remain
open at his Coontinsx-houfc in Chefnut Street for
their further investigation and fcrut-ny.
JAMES GREENLEA*.
Philadelphia, Ja«. ill
All Persons
Having any demands isra°>n£ the Eftats of tile
late Captain Gcorga Irwin, are reqntfted to
bring in their account, pioperly attested, on or
before ihe fir ft day of January next enfuine
aad thote who are indebted to slid eftatt are so
licit ed to make in(nnediat= payment to
SARAH IRWIN, Administratrix.
nsi'. 29 1797. 4
N O T I C K.
ALL persons who have any demands against
ths eftatt of VVileam FieewtOod, of
Liverpool, late of PhilaSelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are requeAed to exhibit their accounts,
properly aiteHcd ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are tfeftred' to make immediate
payment, to
GEO.DOBSON 1
No. 15, So. Third-street. j J
January 4. dtf
Surveyor General's Office,
Decemier 2, 1797.
Ofyl a relesfc of ftirvey of 4,} 3 acres.6B perchus
of land, fhuate in lower Smjthficld townliip
Northampton county, farveyed to William Wills,
per warrant ot ad March, 1786, the Deputy Sur
veyor hath made the following note, viz,
This land claimed by heirs of Lewis Gordon and
©eorgc Taylor, not kiown by what right.—Cer
tified for Daniel Broadhead, Esq. Survey Gene
ral—William Parker.
The firft Monday in March next is appointed for
a hearing of the parties on the a' ove caveat, or any
others interested or concerned therein, they having
at le«fl thirty day« notice for John Hail, Secretary
of the Land Offiee.
N. Lufborough.
January 26 §tiF2wtm
Copper for Sheathing,
For Sale, by
SIMON WALKER,
Pine-Jlreet, near Fifth.
January 2g diw
Genteel Boarding and Lodging
To be had at a moderate price—Enquire a
No. 138, Arch-street.
Jan. 2-j. daw
To be fold,
AN F.LEGANT COUNTRY SfIAT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
story brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, Jcc. situate on the Irish lane, in the
townlhip of Moyamenfing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upoii this place, for tallc and
elegance, (land unrivalled.
December 1. dtf
PROPOSAL.
HAVING met with a liberal pa'ronage, the
Subscriber is emboldened to ilfue propofata
for printing by fubfeription, the JOURNALS OF
CONGRESS, from their firfl. meeting in 1775,10
th« present time.
ThU work shall be printed with a new type,
made for the purpose; and *n good paper. It
will be delivered at one dollar per volume (o&a
---vo) in 6 vols.—4alh to he paid on delivery
Itlsncedlefs to fay any thing of the merits of
• this undertaking—th< scarcity of the Journals
j throughout the United Spates is fufficient to jsfti
fy th« printer in his hope of meeting with that
fucccfs, which he is certain the enferpme dfferves.
JOHN PARKER.
Jan. *7. d 6t
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Riet in whole .and half tierces
Eouideaux Brandy
Tenenjjt (fine
Mt!affts
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Ravens Duck and one hog Jhe ad <jf paint
brujbes.
N. ts* J. Frazer.
No. 9Ji Sonth Front Street.
Nov. 7. - dim.
PROPOSAL S,
FOR PHJNT/AC BY SUtiSCRrPTION,
A NJRW AND IN TIRRSTISO WORK, IKTITLHD,
A TREATISE
ON THE POLICE OF LONDON,
Containing; a i!«tailof the ifarious cri ucs and mis
demeanors, by -which public and pi i vate proper
ty, arc at present* injured and endangered ;
And suggesting remedies for their prevention.
BT A MAQISTRATt,
AAiflg for the counties of Middkfex, Surry, Kerf,
aud E/Tcx ; for the city and liberty of Wcitmin
fier ; and for the liberty of the Tower of Lon
don.
'To those 7have read this curious and valuable
ri iv ill netd no recommendation —they ino-zu its solid merit
-*—but as it has bitberto got into very few hands in this
country, it -will n»t he amiss to obferve —ft great ivas the
approbation and demand in I ondon y that it P"ff<d through
three tdjge editions in the eourfe of twelve months. As a
detail of the ingenious variftitr of fraud, that endanger ■
[trhpcrly in I.on Jon and mofl other o\vara row* and opulent
citie*, it cannot fail to afford ike reader great cnlerta't. imer.fi
as "well as injlruflion ; but as the author traces all tbtfe
enormities ton feiv t and in tbemfelves x inconfderable eiuf
es, ftiisny of Hvbich actually exist in all the large capitals cf
the United States, the business is brought home to our oiun
chars ; and the work has an increasing claim to our alien
fiveterufal.
T» ajjiji the legislator and the magflrate in the humane
office of preventing crimes, and their confequat punijh
wftits, was tbi patriotic deftgn of the author. " Private
offences, befays, are the source of public crimes, and the
befl method of guarding society agamfl ibe Utter is, to make
proper provisions, for checking the former — u Those men
are easily fduccdfrom their Uya'ty who are apojlates from j
virtue.**
CONDITIONS.
Tflfw work will be printed in a large odtavo, on
an excellent EngiitJi paper—lt will be delivered to
fab-fcribcrt, bound in boards, at the moderate priGe
of One Dollar and a half; although the last London
edition, on inferior paper and meanly bound, w
now fold at/wo dollars and a half. To non-sub
scribers the price will be raffed.
Whatever encouragement may be given by fiib
fcription, it will be committed to the prufs without
delay j and, barring accidents, will be roady for
publication early in April.
£s* Subscriptions wilt be thankfully received at
Benjamin DaviesVs No 68, High
fkreet, and by moit of the other bcokfellers in the
city ; by George Hill, in Baltimore; and by Sam
uel Campbell, a*d A. Drummond, in New-York.
January 31. aawtA
TtOSS SIMSON, ~~
HATE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Cyflas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in Lags and boxes
] awiaiaa, "J
St. Vincent?, S RUM.
affid Bengal J
300 caflts RICE, and
A parcel of (hip building RED CEDAR.
oa.*7. . i
To be Exchanged for
BritLSi, Germany or India Goods,
<N THE PACKAGE ;
A tract of valuable Land
In Lycoming, joining that of the Holland co.
and containing 10,000 Acres.
Inquire of the Printer.
Jan. 1?. $
N O 'J' 1 C E.
To hMrrs ef JAMES GREENLEAF's
and EDWARD FQX's Engagements^
IN c<mfequence of many having been prevent
ed, f rom late unavoidable tircumftancs fmvrn
obta'tairtp their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice, The Trustees now inform them, they
are ready to issue the fame to those who may ap
ply within Gxtydays, at No. S Chefnut Street,
and those who do not, wijl be confulercd as re
linquHhing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided for their payment.
HENRY PRATT,
THC MAS W. FRANCIS,
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER.
December 15. dftct
FOR SALE, AT
Wm. Young's Btok Store,
No. 5 a, Second ft reet, the corner of Chefnut street.
REPORT of the Committee of the House of
Representatives of the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
against WILLI BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeached of high crimes and mis
demeanors, made in pursuance of a refolufion of
the House of Representatives, authorizing tfce foid
Committee to fit during the recess jof and
inftruding them •• to enquire, and, by ail lawful
" means, to difcovcr the whole nature and extent
" of the offence whereof the {aid William Blount
" (lands impeache. , and who are tlw parties and
" affociatestherein."
Printed hy vrdtr of the House of Repre/entqfives
December 20. §
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. Pe La GRANGE,
No. lie Walnut-street,
INEORMS those who wi(h to recur to the only
means of becoming perfc.it in the French Lan
guage.tbat he has just opened his Library, con
fining of upwards of 1500 volumes, the bed cal
culated to afford either ufeful inftruflion, or plea
sure. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, rnly be seen at every book-feller's
1 in town.
n. B. AH translations from and into the French,
Englilh and SpaniJh Languages, execu:ec with ac
"curac> and dispatch. eoim nov. if.
Samuel Pleafants Ssf Sons, f
No. 74, South Second-Jlreet,
HAVE received a supply of Seasonable GOODS,
which they, are now opening for sale, on
terms. OA 17 —4W
This Day is Puohihed*
BY \2o(T. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Ric and the
other Book fillers,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
Elegantly printed on IVove paper, and Hvt
prejfed,
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
1 the prominent features of caeh Constitution, and
clafiing together their most impertant provisions,
under the several heads of administration ; with
N<yes and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congrcfs of the
United States.
Dedicated to th« People of the United States.
N. B. A few Copi J printed on an inferior
per, at V4tfrspf a dollar.
A Gardener wanted.
A person well acquainted with gardening, and
who would occasionally attend mirket, may
hear of a place by applying at the 11 mile stone,
on the Bristol road, or No. 109, Arch-street,
Philadtiphia. A single man would bepreferedc
Jill. 20. aawtf
Jam<?s C. Samuel VV, Fisher.
AT THE;J? STORE,
N0.213, corner of Arch and Frout ftrcet.
HAFE FOR S&B,
Cotton and worlled Hosiery in trunk?, affered
A. few bales red, white, and yellow Flannel
Eiirto fUtty romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Pullicat ft Ik ditto
Ditto and Madcafs ditto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taffctici
4000 pieces Nankcers, and
Few cheils bell rfyfon Tee
Alfo —1500 boxes bell London Window Glass,
from 3 by 6 H .to 19 by 14 —and 15 hhds.. Glafc
Ware alforted, which they will dispose of cheaper
than any in the city.
Nov 18 3*awtf
Imported (via New York) on the
(hip Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for
sale by the fubferiber, at N-.61, Chefnut llreet,
between Second atjd Third Streets, the follow
ing articles .
Maharagonges Charconna Dorons
Chintz and Calicoes Dacca worked nvuflinp
Gillis RomaU i»:ndannoes
Nil)as & Penfiafocs Chafla Romals
Blue clotk Hair ribbon
MullMuli'haokerchieffl Palempore*
do. panares Opi*m
Lesser Cardimum S^eds.
Samuel Wilcox.
nevember 27 tuth«4w
Valuable Books,
Just received by the Falr American from
London, and pow opening and felling by
J. Ormrod, No. 41, Chefnut Street.
CATALOGUES
Of the newly imported books maybe had gra
tis. These added to O's usual {lock, form an
extensive and elegant colU&ina of ancient and
modern literature, and comprise books in fui
■ dry languages and on various fubjedls.
This Day it Pubtifhed,
By J. Or.MROD, (Price 7; cents, handfomcly
bound and lettered, and embellished with au
elegant frontifpiece and seventy three cuts.)
The Looking Glass for the Mind,
O R,
The Juvenile Friend ;
Being a valuable colle»£lion of interesting and
miscellaneous incidents, calculated to exhibit to
yoting minds the happy eftefls of youthful in
nocence and filial aiftdlion—ln prole and verle.
Defigncd to improve and amufetbe riling gene
ration.
In the Press, and will be speedily puWiflied,
Dr. DARWIN'S
Plan of Female Education.
Subscriptions for this incomparable work will
be thankfully received by the printer. The book
will contain about three hundred pages, will be
printed with a new type on fine paper, and de
livered to fuWcribers neatly bound, lettered and
embelli&ed with an elegant frifhtifpiece, for one
dollar.
January 3. jt.
FOR SALE, BY
William Priestman,
Ix 9, South Frent-flreet, next door to the Cuf
tonj-houfe,
A large effortment of
Gold and lilver Watches
A Time Keeper, by Arnold
Some plated Candlefiicks
Double barrelled Guns, by Mortimer, maker
to the King of England
Ditto, by Parker
Pair duelling Piflols, by Knubley, Charing
Croft
Reflefliag Telescope, by Ribright
Box of patent Medicines
60 lb. Scotch Thread
Small colleiilion of valuable Books, and
Books of Prints
30,0*0 acres of Land in one lot, upon the
Big Sandy, in Mason county, Kentucky, pa
tented by Percival Butler, in 1787.
Also, t4 Lake Erie Lots
Invoices or parcels of Watehes bought.
January 4. d7t
School Books and Stationary.
W. YOUNG,
No. fx, Second-flreet, corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS now ready fqr sale, a very large assort
ment of Englljb, French, Latin and Greek
SCHOOL BOOKS AlJi, such elementary books
on Science, as are generally read in the academies
and colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY fUBLISHED,
Sheridan's Dictionary, the filth edition, in one
large vol. 8 vo. price 3 dols.
Ditto, large IX mo price 1 dol 75 «ts.
Ditto, common, price I dol. s®cts.
All of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Bpards. Palleboards,
Iheathiag and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wifers, aud.other articles, ef
the befl quality, used in the counting house, or
public office. »
IgT Catalogues of a miscellaneous colleflion of
BOOKS, with thepriie of each affixed, to be had
hy inquiring as above. OA. 24. —3aw6w
Yellow Fever and Pestilential
Diseases.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, in one vol. oftavo.
By William Youno, Bookfeller t
No. sa, Second street, the corner of Chelnut iircet,
(Price, in boards, 87 12 Cents)
Naatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
A VIEW
Of the Science of
On the principles established in the elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN.M.D.
With an attempt to correiS some important er
rors of that woik, and cases in illuftratipn, chief
ly felefled from the records of their prailicc, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br W lilt AM J~ATMt Cuss. M>. CLRAN.
To which i» fubjuined, a Treatise on the afiion
of Metcury upon living bodies, and it* applica
tion for the cure of diseases of indire<sl debility.
Andadifiertation onthe sources of Epidrmicand,
Pestilential difesfes; in which isattempted toprove
by a numerous'induilion of fafls, that they n«-
ver aril'e from contagion, but are always produ
ced hy certain dates, or certain vicifliiudes of
the atmosphere, by Charles Maclcan, of
Calcutta.
Nov. xt. (Ji2t
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convtnient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of tin city—for which a generous
rem will be given; to be taken for a year, or on
more for a longer term. Inquireof ths Printer.
OA. 17. eotf
Tin Plates,
FOR SALS BY
SIMON WALKER,
Pine, near Fifth street.
December 28. iw
For Savanno!?,
*' *• T/jf fcjl failing Ship
to&j&JT SWIFF PACKET,
(* regular trader)
Patrick Gi bben, mailer,
- s= ~"-*" >r WILL fail on the ioth inft.
(ice permitting) lus handfotne accommodation*
i'or paflcagers. For freight or paflage apply to
the master on borrcj, at fiicklay's wharf, above
Market-flreet, or
N. & J. Frmr.Hr,
No. 95, South Frent-ilreet.
February '. 4
For Amlterdam,
The Ship
farmer,
J ohn M'Collom, Master s
WILL fail in a few days, tie
part of ber cargo being
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coifite, »r
paflige, apply to the master on board, at VVal
nut-ftreet Wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is landing, out of the said Ship, from
Bourdeaux, and for sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter cafki
incaf*s, of a fuperier quality
Fontiniac,
Santerne, >■ Wines in caf«s
Lunille, j
Prunes in boxes
Novembe 14.
For Sale or Charter,
GOODHOPE
. Wi " cirr y "bow noo baiTels, and
kSsSSSZ is ready to take in actrgo. For terms
Pragers \iff Co.
No. 1 j 1, South Second-ftre»t.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix
and Hum, Madera, Lisbon, and Tenerife wine.
November 7. dtf
For SavannahT^rTOeorgia,
THE SHIP
a Sally Butler,
Captain Chisholai,
A new veflel, with excellent
Sails on the loth December. For Freight or
Passage, apply to ROSS «c SIMPSON.
IVi'i has to iifptfe of
A fiuall invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
November 18.
FOK S.I LB,
By JOHN MILLER, jun. W Go.
No. 8, Chclnut-ftreet,
One hunared and eighty bales J
BENGAL GOODS,
.Amongst which are,
Gurrahs Mamoodies
Baftas Saanas
fiurivnahs Tanda Cofiaes
G lizzies Emertics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Falant poors RomalJ Handkei chiefs
Amongst them are a great proportion of she
manufactures of Patoa.
December I. j
Insurance Office of the slate of
Pennsylvania.
February f, 1798.
THE DireAors have this day declared a dividend
of seventy dollars on each (hare of the stock of the
company, for the last fu months, which will be
paid to the Stockholders or their legal reprsfcuta
tives after the ioth int.
JAMES S. COX, Pre/,dent.
February r. d IJt
Landing this day, \
From on board th« schooner Two Friends, Dan
iel Crawley, Master,
J=™aSc» RUM,
FOR SALE B,Y
George Latimer & Son.
November 9. f
60 Dollars Reward.
RAN AW AY from the fubferibv, on the 24th
of December, 1797, a Negro Man, about zl
years old, by the name of Cato,he is about 5 feet
7or 8 inches high, milling well proportioned; he
has a very cearfe voice, his lore teeth stand very
fr.r apart ; there were one or two with him I
cannot rightly describe the cloaths he took with
him, for he tookvtwo or three suits ; he had on
when he went away, a pair of kerfcy irowfers, a
half worn drab red coat, a half worn wool
hat ; he took with him four very good shirts t
fxpett he has made for Philadelphia or the Jerfeyi.
Whosoever takes up said negro andfeeureshim, so
that the owrwr may get him-again, shall have the
above reward, paid by me, JOHN MOORE,
Living ia St ill Po»d, Kent county, Maryland.
January 2. *6taaw
Chocolate and Mustard,
of a superior quality manufadlgred,
GINGER and Pepper, ground"; shelled or
pearl Barley; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
Ale and Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Ale ;
London Porter ; red. Port and Lisbon Win»,
luitable for exportation or home Confuniption.
The highest pi ice given for Mustard-Seed.
Also for sale, A quantity of Bocking and
common Baizes, a variety of colors ; a bale of
Fullians, Shawls, &c. for sale by
JOHN HA WORTH,
No. 98, south Fiont-ftreet
a - . ro.&th.t.ij..,
Samuel 8c Miers Fisher,
ARE NOW OPENING,
At thsir Warehouse, No. 27, Dock Street, a frefl*
aflbrtmcnt of Woolen and other goods, fu,table to
thefeafon, received by thela>te arrival* front-Ei»t
land. *
They have also for Sale,
I.ifbon -\
Teneriffe (
Sherty, and ( n P'P«s,hhds. and quarter caflcst
Port Wines, j
AfTorted queen'« ware in crates, Sec.
ioth mo* 23d. di\v3taw3w.
Employment for the Poor.
FLAX tor SPINNING,
To be given out every second. fourth, and fixlh
day rprrning, between ihe hour* of 10 »n<i iz
back of no. jz, south Fifth street, above Spr«(i«-
rcet - eodzw
Jujl Published,
And tobeh-sd cf Messrs Dohfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the othrr pricipal Bookfeliers in tHe
city,prict' one dollar, mty-five cents,in boards,
New Views of the Origin oY the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. a.
June io. '