cf tijt and Philadelphia. Daily Advertiser.
NVMBE» 1684.J
{ I jP»iblic Sale of Real Estates.
On THURSDAY JEvenjng, the 15th of
February orxt, will be eipoled to Public Sale,
at the Merchants" Coffee-hovL in Second-street,
at 6 o'clock in the evening, the following
ESTATES.
N>. 1. A two (lory brick House, with 1 two
flory franre Buildings, on a lot -20 feet front and
loc feet deep ; also, a yacant Lot of 40 feet square,
with the privilege ef an alley to go thereto, l'his
interest has lately been let for 100 dollars per an
num, and is situated in Christian-street; between
Front and Second-streets, the fecood house from
Mr. Caleb Ash's.
No 2. A three story brick House, situate at
the north east corner of Chelhut streets, being 14
feet on Second-street, and 20 suet on Chefnut
ftreet, now in the tenure nf Mr. Morange, at the
yearly rent of 400 dollars, and is deemed one of
the best (lands for the sale of dry goods in this city.
No. 3. A handsome well fini/hed three story
brick House, 20 feet front and 100 feet deep, situ
ate in Fiith-ilreet, between Market and Arch
ftreets, No. 40 This house it> built and fimfhed
I in .tiie modern style, is in complete repair, with
dotafclc cellars under the whole. They: is a eiflern
of rain water in the yard ; and the house is at pr:-_
fcrt let for 600 dollars per annum with the taxes.
No. 4. A three story brick House, fituMe in
I'|t:.ml' ilrcct, betwesn Second and Third street,
Occupied by Robert Kenny.
Mo. 5. A three ftcry brick House, on the bank
fide ..f Front-flreet, No. I7r North, going thro*
to Water-street, where it is five story. It is 20
feet front and 48 feet deep, in complete repair,
and is rented Tor 600 dollars per annum.
The conditions of Sale are, one quarter caDi,
o'ie quarter in 6 months, one quarter in 9 months,
and me quarter in 12 mpnths.
Philadelphia, Tan. 12, 1798. 3a>ivtisF
For the cure of
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, CON
SUMPTIONS,
And all disorders ef the Brtafl and Lungs,
Church's' Cough Drops
Is a medicine unequalled by any other in the world.
CERTIFICATE.
" I hereby certify, that I have been cured of a
most levere Cough, Cold, and violent pain in my
breafl, by taking only a few dofrs of Dr. Chuech's
Cough Props. CHARLES BEVANS,"
Sail Mater, Spruce street wharf, Philadelphia.
(From a London Paper.
To Dr. CHURCH.
' SIR,
Having been recently restored from the brink oF j
the grave, by your invaluable medicine, I think it
my duty to make this public acknowledgment of
the fame, for the benefit of others affli<sled with a
limilsr complaint. I had been afflicted with a snofc
dreadful afthrna for about twenty-three years. I
never for years got any reft, my cough was so
traublefon ein thfe night; and used to discharge an
almost incredible quantity of glutinous matter
ironi my lungs ; and my breath wasfo exceeding
itcrt that I could not walk across ray room. Pro {
videntialljr hearing of your Cough Orops, I too,
thtfm ; and, through taking them alone, lam now r "
\ biafled be God! restored to p£rfe<ft health. My fa
cafe is woll known to the members of the Ebene-
2erChap?l, in Lincoln's-lna-Field, of which I am
also a memfcer ; and any of them will gladly fa- V
tlasy any inquiry concerning the truth of what I
fay. I am, Sir, yonr grateful servant,
NATHANIEL LANG WORTHY,
No. 8, Smith's-court, Great Windmill street,
Hay-market.
Wjtncfs, *
N. Langworthr, jun.No. 40,
[Pilltney street, Golden-fquarb.
CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS -
Art prepared and fold (only) by the inventor and
sole proprietor, Dr. James Church, at his Medi
cine Store, No. f South Third-street, next the iMar.
ket, Philadelphia; ani by appointment, at New- J
Vork, by MelTrs Staples and Co. 169 Pearl-street, 'J
and Miss WHman, n% Willwm-ftreet. $
Dr. Church may he consulted every day, at his *
office, 158 South Front-street, Philada'phia.
January 9. i .^aw.^w
Priion Manufactory. r
FOR SALE y
At the Prtfon of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of all sizes, from 3dy to lody
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and card Tacks J
Oakum and chipped Logwood H
Shoemakers and Sadlers TKrea4 gj
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb ami headCton.es, hearths, chimney pieces, o •
plat'orms, slabs, facia, window heai-', tills, c . p 2l
All which may he had on reasonable terms, a
Shoes ryarle and Weaving done at said Prison at
a moderate price. J
Orders from a aitlance, to Daniel Tho
inaa, agent for the prison, will be attended to. —-
DecernW 26. mth6m
Canal Lottery—No. 11. An
, "ITTILX commence drawing Men Jay, thezoth
' VV ; inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at. O"
Stvm Dollars, at Wm. BI,ACKBURN'i Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, Sonth Second-street
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Tn AN
DtlUrt, where check books are kept lor register- tl
ing and examining in these, the City of Waihing- il
ton. No.II. and Paterfon Lotteries, and informa- ti
tion where tickets may be had in most of the Lotte- h
tjf authorised by law in any of the States of the d
lAion. 0
N. B. The business of a Broker, in bnyingand
falling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities, Fell
*fcfcounti-.g Bills and Notes of Hand, falc of a
ionds, Houses, &c. &c. will be duly attended to, c
by Wm. BLACKBURN.
rivevlar If. 5
» COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding Sehool for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRI DGI; with mucli pleas- ed t
ureand returns her sincere tc- 'gai
eiowledgemcnt for the liberal encouragement n '
ftc his received iluring four years relidence i* dem
Philadelphia ; and afl'ures hrr friends and the thc
s'iblic, so far from intending to decline her 9°"
fcjjooli (he has made a fuff«rior arrangement for lnfir
more convenient afcoinoiodation of her " m
' r clinlars. —Every branch of ufeful and polite "
eHncati.h is particularly attended to by Mrs. " i
GfoombMdge and matters excelling in their D 1
eelpt(9ive profeflions.
Corner of Sprue* and Eleventh Streets.
Tjnc etb, 1797- Jims*" H)
The fituatinn is healthy ; and made a
•Te agreeable by an extensive garden 3nd lot ncr r
pr >und adjoining the house. Q,
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY 1, 1798.
?s. For Savannah,
;th of TO SAIL THE FIRST OPENING,
z Sale, The fcft failigg (hip
f r -.j SWIFT PACKET,
| Patrick Gribbtn, Matter,
t two lying the firft wharf.helow
t an< j Marlet Street—has handsome ac-
Quarc conim odat!ons for paflengrr^—For freight'or pas-
I h fe ß e a PP'r ®° M after on hoard, or to
r an- N. & y. Frazer,
tween No. 95, South Front Strict,
from Who have on hand, and for Sale,
Prime Rice, in whole and half tierces, Georgia
ite at and Carolina Indigo, Molasses in 'hhdt, Tenenffe
ngi4 wine, &c. &c
fnut- DfWrmber 27 •jtawt!.
Ie of Nicklin £s° Griffith,
scity. At their Store on Walnut Street Wharf—
ftory HAVE FOR SALE,
situ- 58 Midi, of Jama/'ca Rum
4rch- Madeira Wine in pipes and hhds.
limed TenerifFe do. in pipes
Old Port do. in hhds.
iftern Imperial Tea in quarters and eighths of chests
F r -"- "Sail Canvali, No. 1, to 8
" es : Dimities, Ginghams, and Muflinets, in packa
i ' \' ! ges lu:table for the Welt India market
, ' Nails,aflbrted
e Lnt Black quart bottles
bank Q- ÜBen ® wlrr ' n hhds. and crates
t^ro > Yellow ochre dry in calks ;
is 10 And at New-York, onboard the
P""' » ship Diana, from Liverpool, expe&ed round
as soon as the navigation 13 open,
c ™' Fine Liverpool Salt
mhs ' Coal,
„ Spanish Brown ")
Vttjetian Red I
Purple Brown 1 DII . IT ,
ON- Patent white f PAINTS
White lead
„ S) Red lead J
Colcothar vitriol
160 bundles Sheathing paper
irld. Seaming tw ; ne
°rny Shi P Dl »"l
en's For Sale or Charter,
hia. also,
N. B. The late firm of Philip Nicklin & Co. j
ko£ is to
kft NICKLIN (5f GRIFFITH. ;
h°a January I. eodtf
10f J For Am iter clam, '
1 f° The Ship -j
"er FARMER, I
'inn. J oaN M'Cullom, Matter;
> ro . i fail in a few days, the 3
do, i ""i' T T«KMS| r eMer part of her cargo being
ow ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or pas-
My f a g e j apply to the master on board, at Walnut
ne. .street wharf, or to
am JOHN SAVAGE. (
fa- Who ;> Landing, oot of die said Ship, from Bo«if
it I deaux, and For Sale,
Claret in hhds. L
,' £t White Wine in quarter calks v
Claret in cases, of a superior quality ii
* Fontiniac, }
Sauterne, C Wines in cases fc
Lnnille, ) h
Prunes in boxes p
novrmber 24.
mi _f or Sale or Charter, °
ar fTl&ri The Snow
w- |W GOOD HOPE, y
Will carry about 1300 barrels,and a
« ready to tike in a cargo. For terms c<
his -rii-i "V apply to
Pragerx & Co. St
No. 151, South Second-flrect. J
Who have forfale—prime St. Croix Sugar and (
Rpm, Madeira, Lift 011, and TenerifTe wine. 1 co
November 7. dtf. J P-i
=1- For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP T
Sally Butler,
Captain Chisholm,
•i, A " CW veffe '' with excellent
' s * accommodations for passengers n
' Sails on the 10th of December. For Freight or
PalTage, aflpty to ROSS tf SIMSON.
* f IVbo have fa d'fpif? of, 5
A fma'l invoice as GLAt fBER SALTS .V
3 _ INDIGO, and a parrel of HOLLY WOOD.
nvoember 18. P r(
Just Published,
And to be had at the Book-ftorei of Messrs. Doe
• son, Campbell, Young and Orm*oi>,
in Philadelphia,
h OBSERVATIONS J
1 4 On the Gaufss and Care of Remitting or Bilioos
y Fevers.
To ivhicb is anneueJ,
t AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and practice of
different authors : and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting intereftinp faAs and reflexions relative to j
the Syntcbvs Ificroidcs, or Yellow Fever, which 1
has occasioned so much diftrefsand mortality, at g
e different in fevcralof the fcaport towns
©f the United States of America.
i by WILLIAM CURRIE, j
•» Feller/ of the Philadelphia Colitge of Phydcians, (
f and Member of the An*rican Philosophical Sc-
ciety, &c. • 3m j
FOR SALE, at
Wm. Young's Book Storq,
No. 54, Second street, the corner of Chefnut street.
REPORT of the Committee of the House <n I
Reprefentative?ol the United States, appoint- an d
- ed to prepare and report Articles of Imprachm-nt
• against V*ILLI\M BLOUNT, a Senator of the J
t United States, impeached oT high crim»s and mis-
1 demeanors, in pnrfuance of a resolution of PL
. the House of Reyrefentatives, authorizing the said
. Committee toiit during the recTs of Congress, and
. inftruilirg theoi •• to enquire, and, hy all lawful
" means, todifcovcr the whole nature and extmt
" of the offence whereof the [aid William Blount
" Hands impeacheJ, and who are the parties and ~
" alTnciatcstheraiik" :> c
Printed hy order of the Hon/e of Rebrcfentntii'ei. C ''
December Id 5
Hyson and Young Hyl'on Fea. hoU
A few thefts ©f ercillert-quality, P'"r Sale, c<*.
Bcr of Second and Pinj Oft,
Decem!>er 15. eotf J
By John Fenno, N°- 119
War-Office of the United States,!
W January the I/?, 1798.
HERF.AS frauds havt beea pradilcd, in
ofyatoin* Wirrynrfor Bounty*l,and;, due
to the Officers and Soldiers cf the late Contim nVil
T' rn, y- b y the preduflion of forgid JnflrumeuU.
To chc ' :lt future such impofuion.s, it Ims been
e *y advifcable ; that all persons, having ,Vim,
P-i- .or bounty lands, whether in their own right, as
le X a! rcprefentative, or by virtue of any instrument
or o.eed of transfer, be required to forward their
t> rffpeoiive claims to the War Office, oh or before
the firft day or January 1799 i n order that such
. . claims may be duly examined, adjtffted and deter
riffe mined upon.
To fubftantijte filch claims, aftria observance of
1. the rules heretofore issued from the War Office will
be ir.difpenfable ; and in addition to what is requir
ed by the raid rules, ths certificate of tlie acloow
;— ledgement of a Deed or Power of Attorney, mull
atfol set forth the place of residence and occupation
of the claimant or person makingfuch acknowledg
ment ; and when the pi oof of personal knowledge
is by a witness or witnesses, their piaccor places of
reiidence mull be set forth in like manner*
a. JAMES Scc'y of War.
J a "-7- • d6w |
**- ~ FOR S LB,
By JOHN MILLER, JUN . £3" Co.
No. 8, Chdnut-ftreet,
Ot/e hundred and eighty hales
BENGAL GOOD.S,
Up Amongst which are,
Gurrahs Mamcodies
1 Baitas Sannas
Ghez nahs Tanda Colfaes
Guszies , Emertics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palampoors Romall Kan'dkei chiefs
Amongti them are a great proportion of the
manufactures of Patna,
December r.
To ,Be SoCd,
AGREEABLY to the lad will and testament of
William Hkvsham, dectafed, and polTef
fion given immediately, a valuable property in Arch
street, between Third and Fourth ft.eets, confin
ing of the house, No. 107, with the let on which
it i< erected, a-ftafel *, and other improvements.—
The house is 10 feet front, and contains ten good
apartments. The lot is of the fame breadth as the
house and 209 feet deep, with a well ot water and
a very capacious walled cistern, both with pumps
in goep rtpair. The stable- Hands on the rear of
the lot and will accommodate four horfas and a car
r.age. This property enjoys the perpetual privilege
of a 26 feet court andan alley, 8 feet wide,extend
ing to Ch«rry Street. Its central pofi»ion and th*
advantages it poffeflrs with refpe<sl to free ventila
tion, renders it well worthy the attention of any
person wifiling to polTefsan eligible property in Phi
ladelphia,
For further particulars enquire at No 88, Vine
Street—of
Robert Heysham,
_ or f A&inj Executors.
, e Francis Bowes Sayrk, j
g January 11 _ j 1
W. Haydon, '
Delineator of Drawing—from London y i
(WTherc he has studied fcveral years jiader on# of
h most eminent matters in that ftience) i
TNFORMS his friends, that he .has re*tommenc»
A cd his private tuition.—Terms, as usual, Six t
Dollars per month, for attendance three times a t
week. Likewise, all kinds of Ornamental Paint- f
ing, fruit* flow»ts, &c. taught on the above terms, f'
W. H.-flatters himfelf his terms will be particu
larly advantageous to those that employ Him, as
he makes no additional charge if there are two
pupils in one fami.!y, '
A line directed to W. H. left at the office of this
Gazette, will be immediately attended to.
Janu?rv 9. §JW
~£FThe owners of the Brigantine | f '
Mercury, WiMiam Uron, mailer, ca.tured l>y
J a Spani/h privateer and iold at Centa in last De tC
! ceinber, may receive intcrefting information res-
peiling her, by applying to the Ufepartment of
State.
*„ * TheJPrmters in the sea-port towns of -
; j the United States will render a ft-rvicr to the j
j concerned, by inferring the above in tbeirnewf- I
1 PP""- Jan , a
N O T l C li. br
To holders of JAMES GRE ENL EA Ps he
and EDIVARD FOX's Engagements j; c
TN consequence <>f many having been prerent
led. from late unavoidable circumstances from no
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. The Trustees now inform them, they
are ready to ifluc the fame to those who may ap- /
ply within sixty days, at No. 8 Cbcfmit Street, £
and those who do not, 14 if! be confidcrcd as re
linquilhing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provi-ded for their payment. toi
HENRY PRATT, | th.
THOMAS W. FRANCIS, be
JOHN MILLER, JUN. th(
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER. e,i
December Is. d6ct '
~ KOSS & SIMSON,
HATE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, and D
.1 quantify of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags aud boxes
Jamaica, 7 0
St. Vincents, ( RUM. ha '
and Bengal j f* r
300 calks RICF., rrd can
A parcel of (hip building RED hir
oa. 2 7 . { vvh
To be Exchanged for j. ,at
Britijh, German, or India Goods, Wh
IN THE PACKAGE ; tha
A traci of valuable Land il)0
In Lycoming, joining that of the Holland co. ,
and containing io,coo Acres.
Inquire of the Printer.
J»n: If.
Philadelphia & Lancaster Turn
pike Company. ere
■■ turr
January 4, IJ9B.
At a meeting bf the Prudent and Managers, tn< "'
this day. n dividend of 5 dollars per Jhar-ivas n 't>'
declared far tl-clnjl half year, Uibicb ztiii'l be by °P ei
tkrnt rrta'mel, Jtr th- payment of the debts of
the Company, agreeable toa rejohuian ef the Stock- in S
holders the t7th fttne IM}. a
TLhCH FRANCIS, Trcafurcr .for'
Of the Philadelphia is" Lancajter Turnfiir Com I pr. J gO(M
January % D
i
ates, Copper for Sheathing,
9®* For Sale, by
J d -, In SIMON WALKER,
ii'crit'il r Pine-Jlrcct, near Fifth.
iineuU. January 29 d IW
s been k* * ——— —
, l Flax Seed for Sale.
Sm'eDt Ap?ly t0 OEO. DOBSON,
j t f le j r No. 15 South Third ftrfet.
before 17 '
deter- j Genteel Boarding and Lodging,
To be had at a moderate price—-Inquire at
™C£of X\o. 13X, Aroh-flreet.
Jafi, 47.
requir
The Subscriber,
' ; • "forms thofy to whom he is indebted, that his
p ton | books, which have been kept open for their infpec
f t ', on Knce December 1796 are balanced to theiift
nf " ' 3 " d , wiU Jur '»g the present month remain
or ; °P en f a£ 1,19 Counting-house in Chefnut Street for
j their further inveftigatio. and fcrut ny.
I?' I JAMES GREENLEAF.
15w " I Philadelphia, Jan. lit J79?.
; 0 . The Subscriber
INFORMS thof.- whom it may interest or con
cern, that the Jitdgss of theCiurt of Common ,
I lea* have appointed Mnnlay, the ti<o,,ty f,xth fry cf ,
February next, to hear him and his Creditors, at the .
Court-house iu this city, on the fuhjeS of his peti- .
t'°n «"• the benefit of the Insolvent Law—and J
that their attendance is desired.
JAMES GREENLEAF. J
Jan. jr6. eotj6tllF i
iefs Subscriber intends to make '
if the a Pp'' c 'ti° n for the tenewal of a Certificate of 3 Share ,
mi the Bank of the United States, standing in the name
r or A. B. N0.5004, dated July ii, 1797, th? fame
f* v >»g been loft. JOHN GRAHAM. "
Kichmond, Dec. i.
:ntof City Commissioner's Office,
January, nth, -797. '
Arch FOR. THE INFORMATION OF THE CITIZENS.
>nfift- T7HE following arrangement is made by the F
A * a,d Cornmiffioners, for cJeanfiufe the v
streets, &c. j
gpod 1 iflria No. i.—From the notth firfe of Vine c
f flreet to the south fide of Mulberry-flreet • to t:
be under the fuperintendaace of Nicholas Hicks. r
... 0 r , a ' rom the south fide of Mulberry street, to
I car r south flde of Chcf * ,ut street to be under the "
liege fu P er,ndar ' c « of William Moulder. 0
end- , 3 ' From the foi'th fide of Chefnut flreet to
th* ' he n . orth flde of Spruce street, to be under the
itila- '"perintendance of Joseph Clavjsoole.
any 4 ' From fide of Spruce street, to the
Phi- * ou f" fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu
perintendance of Hugh Roberts. mwfim
PROPOSAL. " i
HAVING met with a liberal pa'ronage, the e<
Subscriber is emboldened to issue proposals tt
for printiog by fubfeription, the JOURNALS OF ly
§ CONGRESS, from their firft meeting in 177 cto ol
the prerent time.
This work ihall be printed with a new type
, made for the jiurpefe; and on good paper. It
"of will be delivered at one dollar per yojume (o&a
---vo) in 6 vols.—eafli to he paid on delivery
enc- It is needless to fay any thing of the merits of J
Six thin undertaking—the scarcity of the Journals '
es a throughout the United States, is fufficient to jufti
.int- . fy the printer in his hope of meeting with that'
"•is. success, which he is certain the enterprize defcrves
ire - JOHN PARKER.
> as Jan. 27. d6t
:v/o •
NOTICE.
ALL perfnns who have any demands against
the eft ate of Wilum Fifewtood, of
Liverpool, late cf Pliibdelpjua, merchant, de
ne rea,) « d > are requrfted to exhibit their accounts,
projierly attefitd ; and who are indebted
to the fame, are deficed to make immediate f ro
f payment, 00 w
; c GEO. DOBSON, ) , ..„ , t i, a
" No. 25, So. Third-street. )' A dr"iniJlr r. j
ms . i anujt y 4. dtf p
j All Persons
1 Having aijy demands aga : nft the Estate of the
! ' dte Captain George lrwtfl, are reqnefted to (,
bring in their accounts pioperly attested, on or
before the firft day of January next ensuing j.j ;)
and those who are indebted to said estate are so on ■
licited to make immediate payment to ,■
SARAH li< >VIi. T , Adaiiniltratrix.
)ra no v. jo 1797. K ■
itr ; nur
ey AO bp lold,
P- A N ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, cof.taih
:t, j- a ing.6 acr.-s and 40 perclvs, with a neat tw» Wi
e- fiory brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple Wa
[id Orchard, &c. situate on the Irish trait lane, in the ftre
I town (hip of Moyamenfing, about one mils from t ,._f
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will *
be made known upon application at the office of r„„.
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for taCe and - 3 \
eligunce, Hand unrivalled. 011 1
December I. <jtf f
may
60 Dollars Reward. P rof
ror c
d 13 AWAY fr«m the fu*>fcril>er t on the 24th
ot December, »797» a N gro Man, about 22 ■ —
years old, by th?namq of Cato,he is about 5 feet I^3,
7or 8 inche* high, milling well proportioned ; he her,
ha* a very c«arfe voice, his fore teeth Oandvery es hi
far apar: ; there were one or two with him—l and >
cannot rightly dsfcribe the cloitht He took with out c
him, for he took two or three suits ;he had on mucl
when he went away, a pair of kerlcy trowfers, a aie,
half worn drab coloured coat, a half Vwn wool and
hat ; he took with him four very good shirts—l bree.(
expc«ft he has made for Philadelphia or the jerfoys. nunr
Whosoever takes up said negro and Tcures him, so ftaad
that the owner may get him ag.*in, (hall have the pent<
above reward, paid by mr, • JOHN MOORE, is lik
Living iu Still Pond, Kent county, Maryland, said r
># January 1. ' *6t2aw have
dancing school. ft
N
- W iLLIAW M'DOUGALL prffrnte hi,
VV most refpe.-lful compliment, to his form- -/*
©r employers and the citizens in general, and re
turrs his most grateful thanks, for the very
bountiful encoyragemeut he ha, expetieticed for TNF
t tnefetwerity-five years pa!t. takes this opportu- Ini
s nity of intorming them, that his school is now f' ul K'
~ open, it his fiitinv
'f _ Elegant Ball Room,
- >n South Fourth-Street, between Ch'fnut and "■ -j,,
Walrut-ft'-eetß. To begin at to in »he morning , ntO J
for yo-jng ladies, and iin the evening for yoving N
• s T J . er T" r r Engil
, u -- lawif. j cer?.t
. The holders of the notes, accep
tances, endowments afed other engagements
'' Edward Fox, for account of Jame»
l ". Grcenlcaf, are,hereby notified, that Wed
lw nffday,■ the 14th February next, js the last
- day, 011 which they can admit fubfcrrptior.s
to the fund afligned to them for the pay
ment ef said engagements ; and ttiat ihofe
ret. holders, who do not on or before that day
make their fiibfcriptiofis, will be excluded
from the benefit thereof.
ln g' Henry Pratt,
,re at T- IV. Francis,
John Miller, jun.
—t~ John -fiAcy,
Jacob Baker.
his' Jan. 23. dtf
Jjj* IN THE PRESS, *
rrnain Andfpeedily will be Published,
1 for A PLAN
L J, for iflatliftJnga ri-<N**AL MARINE SOCIETY,
ar -dSyOems of Regulations thereiji :
j, JVritten at St*, in th-ytyr 1794 '
Now printed for the.'jetieSt of that'lnftitution,
Rr THE AVTHOR.
con- « A navy would t-e maintained !-ut to an almerft
n,on u f c l e f s p ur p c f e which taking the fcam.n kept the
-\ 0 ' merchantmen idle in port, and trading voflVU
Ue would be as unprofitable employed, if they took
P e "- 3)1 those seamen of (kill dnd courage on be ard (hips
ant G f w .ir. wotaid give them pr tedion and'fecurc
their fifery. We ha*-, enough for both purposes,
and the cultivating hanft hi attention alone iifwant
'\ p > K S to multiply their number. " Money may buy
ike " a,i nnval ttores,.except mariners; but, unlef? a
" able to proame lhena "
13 lii ft
fame _ January iO . §
§6w
Surveyor General's Office.
December 2,- 1797.
ON a release of survey of 433 acres, 68 perches
of land, fijuate in lower Kmithfield'townfhip
vs. Northamptou county, surveyed to William J¥ills,
the per warrant of 2d March, 1786, the Depufy Sur
the veyorhath made the following npte, vis,
Thi« land claimed by heirs of ! ewis Gordon and
/ine Gt °rpe Taylor, not known by what right— Cer
. to tified for Daniel Broadhead, Esq. Surveyor Gene
ckr r&l—William Parker.
to , ! h : firrt Monday in March next is appointed for
the S r ' n S 'he parties on the aSove caveat, or any
others interested or concerned therein, they having
■ fn at „ lcafl thirty day» notice for John Hall, Secretary
of the Land Office. '
N. Lufborough.
the January 26 §uFiwtm
a fu - js OTIC E.~
' — A LL P crfon N 8 who have »"y tnands a-rainfl:
\ V the eft ate of WILLIAM COMPTON, lite
0 Philadelphia, deceased, are requeft
the ed to furn-fh their accounts, duly attested. And
ifals those who are indebted to said eflate, are earnest-
OF ly solicited to make immediate payment, to either
,to ol the fubferibers.
Isaac Calhrall, ~i
P [ t ' John Ha-worth, >• Administrator.
£t a . Samuel Wilcox. J
ftnuary t7 . w, 4w
,°/ s James C. £sf Samuel W. Fisher,
ft,. AT THE R STORE,
hat corn er of Arch and Front flreets,
res. k/ive for SAlb,
( Cotton and worded Hosiery in trunks, afTorted
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannels
- Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto' Pullicat silk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs ditto
U, J Ditto Gurrahs
.°1 Bengal black Taffeties
4COO j i' cji Nankeens, and
ts > Few chtftg bed Hyson Te.,
c 'i box* s bed London Window Glass,
ite from Bby6,to 19 'ny 14—and 15 hhds. Glass
Wrre, affort-d, which they witl difpot; of cheaper
< r than any in the city.
noveml.er >B.
- for lale or to be let on ground
rent,
L A valuable Lot of Ground ;
0 QITUATE oi> the north-east corner of Wai-
"ut atid Fifth streets, frontirtg the State
? Houfefquare. This lot is fifty-one feet front
0 on Walnut flreet, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half oil Fifth street ; there are at
present two small two story brick houses, and a
_ number of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
0 YVitlr convenient stores, wharf, &c.fitnateon
le Water-street, between Mulberry and SafTafras
e streets, containing in front on Water street fif
■| ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward ninety-five fe«t, then widening to the
' | l'outfc tlilrteen feet fix inchr*. Thel'e houses
j * vc ' ihtcor.venience of a public elley adjoihing
on the north fide, and are a very defirablefitua
tion for a merchant, flour facslor,or others who
may have ocrafion for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable terms
forcafh, Forfurther information apply to the
printer.
J m&wtf
, Kan away the 25th of Decem
- her, 1797, a Negro Man, about 5 feet sor 6 incb
-1 a high, of a yellow complexion wkrn fpokc to
I and called by hii name he la. a quirk (harp lock
1 out of hi? eyes and shew« the white of them vry
1 much ; has taken all his eloathes with him, which
1 are, a 11-vr kersey <C'-at coat, a grey broad ckth
I and clnfe bodied coat, a lfriped Vtft, n»nkeeo
I breeches, silk (lockings and ruffled Ihirts, and a
number of other eloaths. Th® /aid Negro under
' llaads farnitig, and is a food Ihoemakfr and car
penter ; he can read and write tolerably well—lt
is likely he may forge a pass. V* hot ver raie? up
. said negro and secure* him, so thatlget him, fta.l
have thirty Dollars reward, paid by the fubferiber,
living in Still Fond, Mary,
land, Keut coonty.
N JJ. The above Negro i» 19 years old.
J-itmary 2
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M, De La GRANGE,
No. 11 r Walnnt-ftreet,
INFORMS those who wish to Vrcur to the orjr
means of becoming perfect m the Frecch l.an
punge.that he has just opened his Liesai: v, con
fining of upwards of ijoo volume, th: be:; ca!-
cuiated to afford either ul'cful inllruaior-, or plea,
liire. The eofldittens, together with a catalogue
of the L.'rary, miy be (ecn at every book-fdli 1'»
in to-rvo.
N. «. Ail tranCatious from and ii-to the French
Engliib and Sparifh Lanjr.apo, execurrci with
ccrat) and Cl .:n ««. jj.
[VCLUMR XUItPASHIMGTQ V L OTTERr.—No. U.
LIST of PRICES AND Blinks.
149 th Day's Drawing—Dec. 4. =
No. Dots. Ao. Dais. AJo. Dols. No. Dots.
49 9741 33°t6
903 x 10018 *l7l* x *
1607 x 190 *57
6»J 410 «I 4 3J»'9 *
807 736 43191 3f6
967 11245 so 93176 36134
»»7» ae 479
473 55» 38» 777
ill i»is3 * 884 J7 1! >o
977 x 1306 a X ®4»9i s** *
3»jf 699 ajß4j S»S »J
96* 14483 46*56 38*7'
4381 77* *7» 4i°73
5169 x 877 x «7*7» * 108
573 * »5»4® »4 x 484
713 16384 x 791 x 006 x
6036 X 611 »8»3» 4*74'
314 7»» M«.x 987 x
3»7 17685 444 * 43496
453 7«>3 39J73 45059
454 x 997 73®
606 x 19031 964 48573 *
*961 x «6l 3*865 49046
t;*j 3c6»0 33756 x 155
960 ao . 641 74* x ti6
1 fO\\k Day'* Drawing—December 9.
644 12936 a3scj 36115
908 13029 34038 545 *
998 X C 3« 30 084 X 3700* 30
1571 4*5 X 555 *33
955 47® 399 x 38196
anß 30 598 7i6 397
3*03 14'ii6 45011 336
701 133 **4 x 408 x
4790 697 X 360 3903} *
909 x 15046 9 JI c6i
5417 25 385 2600 a 504
617 x 476 x 313 x 6®9 x
973 x 8u 843 750
61*5 x 17*0® *7B 40207
%%•) 636 37176 x 663 x
»93 714 x 48017 4*046
596 «1*73 «9» 94«
7363 471 843 43063
463 568 40 891 3i7
677 576 «9708 X 674
5624 19041 30316 x 968
78a IJ4 53* 43.78
-9293 x 148 sioeo x 454
473 SiS ®°3 635
MI 89047 9,8 * 44246
Bf6 * lai 3*176 485 x
985 x 103 a 839 45653 x
Io»o8 *JL X 987 79?
367 21488 x 339*1 47°**
J3(j 711 x 34006 115 x
837 795 5*9 * s*B
liojf 32067 616 5® 48*28
467 x 358 966 30 150 x
796 X 558 35023 431
863 611 055 30 336
ta'794 78a 783 X 537
835 767 814
577 ?97 3 6 33"
RICHMOND, Jan. 11.
VIRGINIA LEGISLATURE.
Tb< revenue bill, which ha» occap-ed the
attention of the House cf Delegate# in com
rcit ee of the whole for eight or ten day* paA,
vas finally rejefied, on Wednesday. Ayes 70
7foe« 7». By thia bill it wa» contemplate! to
lay an additional tax off land*, lota and hoafes
in towns of to per cent—2l To on merchants ac
cordinj to the athount offales; on gold watch
es 129. on silver watches is. on clocks 6* on
do£s (*H over two which Cull be kept at one
place) js. annually; en all ordinary lieenfes
ten dollars ; on h<?rfes one handled per cent,
and the imereil of all manic* loaaed—per
cent, Bte. . 5 S
The bill pallid by the bouCe investing County
courts with power to establish and regulife
ferries, has been rejected by the senate.
The petitions for divid.ng counties, for lotte
ries, and far the relief of fkeriffs, have been
generally reje&e^.
A bill pa&d the house of delegates, compel
ling pedlars to obtain a licanfe annually (for
which they are to pay twenty dollars) offome
county court witliin the fta;e.
A new revenue bill was on Thnrfday last
brought forward andengrofied for a tfiir-1 read
ing, in fubftan: e nearly the fame as the one re
jeiJled, except that an additional (ax is therein
contemplated, of twenty-five per centum on
dives The bill in this Oiape ft is supposed will
pass, atian additional revenue canflot be difpenf
cd with.
The two following bills have received the
Cuiflion of both houses of the general afferobly :
A bill to am nd an aft, entitujel "An aft
to suppress unlawful gaming," which goes to
destroy art billiard tables, See. by declaring that
any person who shall allow the game of billiards,
pharo, ABC, E O, or any other game of the
kind, to be played in any house of which he has
the poflcflion, frail incur a penalty of one hun
deed and fifty dollar*, and all monies exhibited
itfuchigamesare liable to be seized by the by-ftan
aers. This jA is to commence and be in force
from and after the Bth day of March next.
And a biH " T#> amend the a«sl, intituled an
afl concerning efe&ion of members of the gene
ral afletably. The by tbi. bill will
take place or. the 3d Monday in March, through
out the commonwealth, alter the ill day of Jan
.*4ry next (the fame day on which the elec
tions of Consrrefs are held.)
LON©ON, November 11.
Yesterday admiral lord Duncan and hit offi
cers attended at the board of admiralty to re
ceive inftrufliofls from the lords commissioners
relative to their joining the fleet of observation,
deilined for further fervlce in the North Seas
before the winter season sets in.
The Dutch admirals de Winter and Muner
alfb waited on the board with the nndertaker, for
directions for the funeral of the deceased a J mi
ni D'Reintjies
Admiral de Winter being closely prefled the
other day at dinner for a toast or sentiment,
gava " The health «f Miss Duncan."
The Duncan robe, and the Duncan cap, are
now all the rage 1 and nothing is to be feeo
but plaid ribbands.
Thomas 1 line ha> publilhed a letter t* the
fttpU of Frnnce on the Revolution of the lit b
FruSidort after an encomium on the present
constitution, he jullifies the meafurcs t'ken on
ibt lßthby the diteflory as indispensably ne
cessary at that period, when a faction was ar
dently labouring to overturn the republic. He
concludes with fame r-fleflions on the present
slate of England and France, and aflerts, thai
the latter, notwithstanding the navy of her enr
' my, must prove viflorinus at lift. We (hall
present our reader* with some extraiSi fro» this
work.
It has been frequently remarked, that almost
every leider of the Belgic, as well as of the
French revolution, has fallen a facrifiic to one
or the other. One of the last votaries to infur
region is the famous Van Eupert, who h-aie<l
the democrats of Brussels, under t'.e re gn of
Joseph II The direflory have ?t la# found
out, that (hi* revnlutioiilft is not fufficicntly re
publican for their pnrpofe, and they have ar
enrding'y b»ni'fid him from rte fail of Bel-,
gium. s
%fyz dsa3ette»
f
PHILADELPHIA, {
THURSBAY EVENING, FEBRUART I. i
tstythovitif
L AWS OF THE UNITED STATES.
Fifth Congress of the United States :
AT THE BBCOND SESSION,
Begun and held at the City ®f Philadelphia,
ia the State of Pennsylvania, on Mon
day, the thirteenth of November,
ona thousand seven hundred
and ninety-seven.
AN ACT
Providing for the payment of the inter ft on a
certificate due to general Kofcui/to.
n T) E it enaSed ly the Senate and
e °* '* 11 House of Rep) efentatives of the
United States of America, in Congreft assem
bled, That the Secretary of the Treasury be
authorized and directed to pay to general
Kofcuifko, out of any monies in the Trea
sury, not otherwise appropriated, an inter
est at the rate of fix per cent per annum,
on the sum of twelve thousand, two hun
dred and eighty dollars, and fifty-four cents
the amount of a aertificate due to him from
the United States fromthe firft day of Jan
uary, one thousand seven hundred and nine
ty three, to the thirty firft of December,
one thousand seven hundred and ninety se
ven.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Reprejjentatives.
TH : JEFFERSON,
Vice Prefidentof the United States,
and President of the Senate.
Approved.—January 23th, 1798,
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States
Departed among the Rolls in the office of .
the Department of State.
Tihotht Pickering, Secretary of State.
MR. VElf no,
In Porcupine's gazette of the 1 it'n of Ja
nuary 1798 I observe a paragraph, which
states that the communication made to you
sometime ago from Virginia, that th* coun
cil had refufed the public bell to the Federal
Judgf, is dated to have been incorre& . as
your correspondent, the author of that com
munication, conceives himfelf in duty boand
in order that you may not appear improper
ly committed, to give you a statement of a
few of the faft. If Potcupine's "best p'of
fible authority" meant that no order, refuf
ing the use of the bell was entered on thi;
journals of the council; so far he is I be
lieve correft, at least, T have understood so
from more than one of the members of that
body. But, if he meant that the keeper of
the bell received no such orders from the
lieutenant governor, who, it is understood,
considered himfelf at the head of the Exec
utive, from a supposed interregnum, and
which were acquiefctd in by several of the
members, he is certainly very incorre&, as
may be known by application to the judge
who, if he cho£e, could entertain you with
the circumstance of one of those very hon
ourable gentlemen's waiting on him for the
express purpose of offering apologies.
TRUTH.
N.B. Should further contradictions from
" best possible authority " appear, I (hall
consider mvfelf as bound to give a full state
ment of the business with the names of the
several aftors as it is understood and believ
edTn Richmond, although it is not my with
to particularize.
Elegant Extract.
From a volume of Sermons publilhed lately,
called *' 7he Scot's Preachert'
" Twice had the fun gone down upon
the earth, and all as yet was quiet at the se
pulchre; death held his sceptre over the
Son of God; still and silent the hours pas
sed on: the guards stood by their poll, the
rays of the midnight moon gleamed on their
helmets, and on their spears; the enemies
of Christ exulted in their success; the hearts
of his friends were funk in despondency and
sorrow; the spirits of glory waited in anxi
ous suspense to behold the event, and won
dered at the depth of the ways of God.
At length the morning star, arifiog in the
east, announced the approach of light; the
third day began to dawn upon the world,
when on a sudden the earth trembled to its
centre, and the powers of heaven were (ha
ken; an angel of God descended, the guards
lhrunk back from the terror of his presence,
and fell prostrate on the ground ; his cpun
tenance was like lightening, and his raim
ent was as white as foow; he rolled away
the stone from the door of the sepulchre,
and fat upon it. But who is this that Com
eth forth from the tomb, 'with dyed garm
ents from the bed as death? He that is glo
rious in his appearance, walking in the
greatness of his strength! It is thy Prince,
OZion! Christians, it is your Lord. He
hath trodden the wine press alone; he hath
stained his raiment ifith blood; but now as
the lirft born from the womb of nature, he
meets the morning ot his refurre&ion. He
arises a conqueror from the grave; hr re
turns with blessings from the world of spir
its ; he brings salvation to the sons of men.
Never didthe returning fun usher in a day so
glorious! It was the jubilee of the univcrfe.
—The morrsing stars fang together, and all
the sons of God (houted aloud for joy; the
Farther of Mercies looked down from his
throne in the heavens; with complacency he
befetld his worl<^ reflored; hp few h:s walk t
th'ftt it was gooij. The'i did the defart re- u
joice; "the face fcf nature was gladdened be
fore him, f>fthe Eternal de s
fcended as the (Jew of Heaven for the refrefh- <
ing of the natiens." *
'"From a late Lemlvt Paper. '
Tie following remarlablefaO, a Hue attention
to which may be the means of preserving the Rfe
of many a human bang, cannot be too generally
known. On IVcdnefday Utjl the only Mid of 1 !
Stephen Friar Gillham, Esq. of Sharfield, j
Burntwood, about a month old,tuas fe'nta v'tih
a convulsive Jit, which, in 4 Jhort tim e, became
so violent, that every moment was expeßed to be
its lajl. As a dernier expedient, one of the fer
runts provided a pigeon, and having plucled the
feathers from its breast, applied, that part of it
to the pit of the child'sJlomach, who was appa
rently dead. At the expiration of 10 minutes the
pigeon seemed mueh convufed, and some fymtoms
of recovery were perceptible in the child. From
this happy appearance the remedy was continued
for near three quarters of an hour, when the
infant completely recovered andthc pigeon became
so violently convulsed that it was with much dif-~
Jiculty the servant could hold it. In a few min
utes after it died in the utmost agony, having
ejfeftually extraßed that pain from the child
which proved Us own dtjlruction. The con
vulsions of the bird were foJlrong, that its body
was black all over.
• i -
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Debate on Foreign Intercourfi.
[Continued fronj y«fterday's Gazette.]
THURSDAY JANUARY ZJ.
The house having again resolved itfelf into
a committee of the whole, on the bill pro
viding the means of Foreign mtereourfe,
and Mr. Nicholas's amendment being un
der consideration.
Mr. Nicholas rose, expe&ing some other
gentleman would have opened the debate, he
said he had not held himfelf in readiness to
enter upon a reply which he felt himfelf call
ed upon to make to a number of observati
ons which had been brought forward on the
present occasion.
He had been represented in the course of
the debate, as beingj'n favour of monarchi
cal governments, rather than republics, and
as faying that republics were more dangerous
toliberty than any other fort of government. .
The gentleman from Maflachufetts had a
stonished him, wheahe declared that he had
begun his speech, on introducing the moti-.
em to-the house } - by-ftafci»g that republics
were more liable to corruption, aud more
unfavourable to liberty, than despotic mon
archies. He could not have supposed that
such a position could llave entered into a,py
perfon'smind, and he was &rry to think a
ny member should have deemed it necessary
to" go into arguments to prove the fuperiori
iy of a republican over a monarchical govern
ment. He was surprised that arguments
like these should be brought forward in -an
swer to any thing which fell from him : be
cause if there were a man on earth exclusive
ly devoted to,republican governments, it was
: he—for he would fly from a monarchical go
vernment as far as the earth would give him
limits. " -
[ The gentleman from Maflachufetts, (Mr
Parker) had ftatqd that the republican fpi
| rit had continually overturned monaicKies.
' He knew it; and he would find nothing in
his sentiments, which stated that republics
were more liable to corruption than monar
chies: but that republics were more liable to
be destroyed by an excess of influence in the
executive—and he said so again. ,
He was not so much surprised that the
i gentleman from Connecticut should have a
[ vailed himfelf of the opportunity of mak
. ing a declaration in favour of republican go
: vernment, by mifreprefentmg whit he had
. said, as hitherto he had given no fubftanti
t al proofs of his attachment to it. He said
by misrepresenting, because he had stated
him as faying that every thing was to depend
upon feeble minorities, in opposition to ma
, jorities. The word feeble minorities could
, not be so distorted. What he said was, that
i it would not be in the power of a feeble mi
. j nority to attraft the public mind to the dan
; ger, by which the government should be
- threatened, in cafe of the corruption which
: he predicted as pofiible to exist. It was to
r j this appeal to the public mind—to the fen
s J timents of the people over their misguided
! representatives, which he considered as the
I fafeguard of a republic, to which he allud
- ! ed. That gentleman had no apprehension
- I from feeble minorities; but he feared the
. ! sense of the people should be awakened to
; ' the abiifes of power in the department he
: had alluded to ; for, it was the theory of
, gentlemen opposed to this amendmen, that
s it was not right t« the departments
. of government; and that the people ought
s not to trouble themselves about the executi
, on of its measures.
A colleague of that gentleman's (Mr.
- Dana) had charged him with addressing the
' galleries, rather than the members of the
, committee. Upon this fubjeft he wished to
■ be understood. A clamour of this kind had
- frequently been raised. He was, ready to
- confefs, that he wished what he said not to
s be confined within those walls, but to go
, beyond them, andproduce an effeß upon the
: public mind; and if th» doors of the house
i were to be shut, and there was no chance
■ of his sentiments going abroad, his feat
e should be vacated to the firft person who
e would accept of it.
But it was said that what had fallen from
- him with refpedt to the liablenefs of corrup
. tion to creep into republican governments,
n was a serious attack upon the republican
. system, itfelf; but he believed those gentle-
II men who were continually flattering the fyf
e tern, and thereby deriving the people of a'
s proper caution, were greater enemies to this
e system of government, thao those who ad
fifed caution 3 gain ft undue encroachments th<
upon it. l ar
Gentlemen had fa id, that the effett of this pr<
amendment could not be what he declared tic
it to be, to operate at a distant time,, and th<
not immediately. The gentleman from foi
Delaware had said, this could not be the Pr
cafe, except a new clause were to be intro- pa
'dticed. Thi3 he knew, but there would be fix
no difficulty in it. This difficulty had arif- tn
en from the want of caution in the drawer be
of thefeiH. Gentlemen concur in consider- an
ing this provition as for a permanent eftab- gt
lilhment, though the latter appropriation ed
was introduced rjiertly as a temporary pro- th
vision. It was origina.ly so introduced— a
but having been repeatedly fanftioned, as an
the gentleman from S. Carolina (Mr. Har- co
per) had declared it had, it ought now to pi
have been considered equally permanent with (h
the other.
It would be understood, Mr. N. fuppof- ve
ed, by many persons who heard of this de- d<
bate, that there was a party in that bouse j fl'
who were diflatisfied as not being likely to ly
get any office under government, and that, p<
therefore they were determined to obftruft tc
governmental measures as much as pofiible. fu
Insinuations of this kind had been made, and fc
they would not fail of gaining credit with c<
some people. His motive was sntirely mis- ei
understood. When he complained of the vi
President's confining his appointments totof- rj
sice, to men of his own opinion, it was not fr
because he wanted offices either for hirdfelf," t«
or friends, but bteaufe h« beli.ved the mea- U
sure would produce serious mifchief to the tl
public. Nor was it of any change of prin- h
ciple that he complained, because he believ. ei
ed it was no new praftice; but it was be- w
cause it held out an improper temptation.— tl
It said, •• Come and aft with us, and you t
will be entitled to office." tl
The gentleman from Sautb-Carolina had
acquitted the fnpporters of this amendment tl
of wanting the offices for themselves ; he e
called them paltry, and unworthy of accep- a
tance. He dated their ambition as going v
farther. Nothing would serve them but e
popular applause, and to have the direction v
of publis fentimcnt. He considered this fl
house as a theatre, upon which members t
adled for public applause. For his own cart n
he did not think he poflefled a talent for pub- f
lie speaking; but if the house were to be si
Considered as a he thought that gen- «
tleman himfelf would make the moil confpic- a
uous' figure upon the stage. f
But the gentleman added, that this ela- c
. moar of opposition bad existed inother coun- a
tries, and would continue to exist. It had c
existed, he said, in England many years— t
and this, he supposed, was to reconcile this j
country to it. The fame predictions with f
respeCt to the exceflive patronage of the Ex- J
ecutive, Mr. N. said, had been made in that v
country, but disregarded. And he recoin- t
mended that they should now be disregarded *
meaning, he supposed, that the people, of t
this country would be contented to be in the t
fame situation with the people of England, t
But if there was something in the situation i
of that country, which every unprejudiced «
man must think would have been better a- ]
voided, and which would have been avoided I
if the clamour, which the gentleman fays is >
common to all countries, had been attended 1
to. in due time. This was an argument i
which ought to induce the people of the U- t
m'ted States to attend in time to this clamour. 1
Not that all clamour was to be attended to,
but he doubted not but the people would be '
able to discriminate betwixt that which ought <
and that which ought not to be attended i
to. 1
He considered the fubjeft of this bill as <
one of the most important that could come i
before the legislature ; for he attributed sll I
our misfortunes to this source. He tho't <
we ought to have no political connexion t
with Europe ; but to be confidered,,in rela- '
tion to that country, a3 mere buyers and '
venders of their manufactures. With res- '
pest to this government, the power con- >
tended for, which would empower the ex- <
ecutive to fend ministers to every court in <
Europe, was every thing Read the con- •
ftitutioa, and fee what was committed to it
and what would be its power, if this doc- i
trine xpere to prevail. It would be the <
/crew which could' raifeor fink the govern- ]
raent at its pleasure. Was the declaration
of war an important trust —and would it i
not be in the power of the executive, if the
ground contended for was established, to !
bring the country into such a situation, as 1
to oblige congress to declare war ? At pre
sent, there were few people who did not 1
trace our situation to causes growing out of '
our diplomatic establishment. There wasa 1
difference of opinion, it was true, as to
the condnft of the executive. Some tho't 1
it perfeCtly unblameable, and proper ; oth
ers declared it not only to be improper in
itfelf, but intended to bring the country to
the situation we are in. It was not impor
tant for him to enquire into" this business ;
it was enough to shew that the President
had at any time the power of producing
this effeCt, when he pleased, and whether
it wai done by design or accident ; it was
the fame thing to the country. Perhaps
the aCtors in the business were the only per
> sons who did not attribute our misfortunes
[ to this source.
I He believed we were placed in such a fit
i nation as always to be liahlc to be thus in
i volved from our commercial connections.
: The commerce of this country would al
ways create a partiality for Great-Britain ;
the exteafive credits which were obtained
from them, and the continual extenfioit of
> that trade, would constantly operate that
way. It would, therefore, require Confid
i erable caution to prevent too el-ife a polit
. ical connexion being formed with that coun
, try.
I But it was said there was no danger, and
. that in this question, the constitution and
- the people were on one fide, and the faßton
t or the supporters of this amendment, on
s the other. If this were true, he owned
- they ought to (lop here ; but be uuderftgad
the constitution as fpeafcing a -cry different
language, and lie thought th*t gentleman
produced thi* doftrine merely by conduc
tion, in oppoGtion to the plain meaning ef
the instrument. The constitution provided
for the appointment of miniftrrs by the
President but it only gave him the power
partially because their falar.'es were to be
fixed by congress ; that part of the consti
tution which declares that no money (hall
be. taken from the treasury but by law, was
an efTe&ual check upon that power. Xan-
not be plainer. If it was dtouht
ed» whether the constitution, by giving
the power of appropriation, meant to give
a power over the thing to be provided for,
another <;laufe of the constitution would
convince- The constitution fays, "no ap
propriation for raifiiig or supporting armies
(hall be for a longer term than two years
—The power hereby meant to be given is
very little doubted—he had never heard it
denied bymbre thai) one gentleman on the
floor of congress, and two or three private
ly, that ft was to put it into the
power of either branch of the legislature
to reduce the military establishment, by re
fufing appropriations.—lt is clear, there
fore, that in making appropriations, the.
constitution understood that we fhonld ex
ercise a discretion over the thing to be pro
vided for. Those who advocated a contra,
ry daftrine, did not adduce their argument
from tht constitution. THey barely afler
ted that it was lb, and that those who would
not believe it were diforjanizers. Mod of
the gentlemen opposed to the amendment
hid insisted that the fXecutive had the pow
er of checking the legislature, but that it
was not the intention of the constitution
that the legislature Ihould check the execu
tive. This stood upon no better ground,'
than " it is so, because it is so."
The gentleman from Delaware had said
that that house had no check upon the ex
ecutive, because his powers Were defined,
and theirs were not. The queftioo was,
what is the definition of the executive pow
er ? They were endeavoring to afcertaiu
what it was, and whether that house was
not a check upon it, by having the power
to refufe appropriations. But the gentle
man had said that the house could not re
fufe to appropriate for tke salary of the Pre
sident or chief justice. Surely nothing
aould evince the weakrtefs of gentlemen's
arguments more than the introdu&ion of
such as these. Every one knew the house
could not refufe to appropriate for the fal-.
Aries mentioned, for this good reafoa, be
cause the constitution forbade them Vi He
thought that the reverse conclusion was the
just one ; that when power was taken away
fn particular iaftances, it was left in the
general. The part of the constitution
which forbids congress to appropriate for
the military service for more than two years
will (hew the power meant to be given by
the power of appropriation—Very few will
: deny (he never heard it denied by more
than one on the floor of congress, and two
or three privately) that it .was intended that
i either brancho'f the legiffatuje flieuld have
. power to reduce the military establishment
i by refufing appropriations, aYid yet noth
i ing is said but that the appropriation (hoald
I recur every two year*—the inference is per
fectly olear, that the power of appropria
tion gives power over the .thing to be pro
vided for.
, He thought it was neeeffary that the ex
tent of gentlemen's doitrine "should be un
derftqod —The constitution fays, no
1 shall be taken from tfye treasury but by law;
byt gentlemefi fay, the Preifident has pow
i appoint foreign ministers; and to call
upon the house for appropriations—they
[ have before told the hoafe he "had.the pow»
er to make treaties, and that when made
i they couid not refufe appropriations to car
ry' them into effedh So that he not only
I had the power to appoint ministers and
make treaties, but to command the treafu
■ ry to open at his will. Suppoie the Presi
dent and the senate were to make a treaty
i offenfive and defenfive|(and they could make
. a treaty of this kind as well as any other)
would not congress be driven into a war by
force ? So that not only the keys of the
r treasury were taken from them, but tbe
. power of determining the important quef
i tion of war, if these do&rines refpefting
the power of the executive were founded.
; The theory of gentlemen deserved serious
> attention. They tell the committee that
each department of government has a cheek
within itfelf, but that they have no check
t upon each other. Bow this theory was to
f be fupportrd. he could not tell, except the
i different departments were never to touch
> each other in the exercise of their functions ;
t or, when one approached the other, thajt other
. was to give way ? How was the check of
i departments to he avoided ? He could not
> underiland it. It was well known that the
- Legislative, Executive and judicial depart
; ments of government ran into -each other,
t The partition between them, if any at all,
r was extremely tbin, and would not pre
r their coming ia contadl. ™
s But if it were possible that the do&rine
s (hould be correft, what would jt lead to !
■- The departments of government were not
s to check each other., Why not ? One of
the reafon3 afligned was becatife.they have
- not the meens of information in their hpnd,
. and therefore could not judge ,<lf. what was
i. proper to be do»e by their co-departmentr.
. All agree that the power of th< executive
; may fee abused ; if (o, heafked, yrhere w.'S
d the check against that atjj»fe ? If not Ycfticd
if in that IwSuie, in the power to grant or rc
it fufe appropriations as they fie proper, where
- was the check? Was it in the people i Had
they more information with refpeft to owr
i- foreign relations, or were they in -other ref
pefls, better calculated to dctermirie the a
d bufe than that house ? Or did th«fe gentle
d nun impress it upon their constituents as a
n duty, to exercise this kind of guardianship
n over the executive ? If this were" enquired
d into, he believed that gentlemen used tbe
d fame kind of /oporijlcif at home, as were u-fed !u that lioufc. " All 'yr»nr irtereftJ are : w,
fafe ; nothing can be doae-amifs in giu'ern- I fu
ment without fame departrtent difcovring of
tlic mifchief:" As he believed, therefore, 'in
the people were not direfled to be upon the fin
watch, a«d as they had not better informs- 3u
tion with refpe to executive measures than foi
that house, he saw no reason for transferring go
the business to them. Nor could the people he
■ co'treft the evil by eleftion, as they had not tb
the knowledge of facls upon which it Was ; it
neceflfy-y to aft. - . |A"
Was it true, Mr. N. aflced, according to ; fe<
the pra&ict of the government, that the de- th
partments h»d no check upon each other? to
Did not the judiciary consider the aS» of in
the Executive and Legislature? Certainly
they did. There were inftancet in which the ex
judges had decided upon the constitution
and laws of the country, and in one instance, be
he believed they had determined for then, f r<
and in another against them. in
Would gentlemen fay that We had bo foi
power over the approptiatioM now under
consideration, in relation to the ability of
the country to afford it, and the fatisfaftion
of other public engagements? If they did j,j
lay'fo the consequence might be great dif- tb
order in the finances, and the power of the th
execdtiVe would not only go to force appro-
pria'fions, but to compel taxation.-»-If they a "
admitted that in this refpeft the haufe of w
representativeS had power, it was putting ; n
the exercise of their constitutional duty or. a p C
most precautious footing: If the fame thing
wa9 Forbidden er permitted, according to hi
the mot" e which induced it, there could
be no doubt that the legitimate motive might fc
alway» be afligned. ar
But it was said there was no need of g
checking the Executive, because the Senate fu
was ieheck upon it. This was no check re
with refpe£t to the office, it only related to t "
the person appointed, and here the power
was equally interested. The only difference tl
was; that there were more wills to COtrftih f c
in the Senate. c<
But it was said the doftrine which he ad- q
vo'cated was novel, and imported, He tho't 1
he had obviated the objeftion by producing f
tke debate which took place at the ftrft eft a
biifhed of the Diplomatic Corps; and he re
ferred to the opinon of a gentleman who n
lived at a time when Party had not appear- b
<d to influence the opinions of men, who 1
said that it was competent for Congress to l '
fay whither ministers Jhoiild be sent, and
whither they fhoHld not be sent. And he j
could fay for himfelf, and his country- t ]
men (for he never heard a different opinion si
in Virginia) that he never had an idea that o
the house had not this power, and therefore 11
had it not to learn from any other Conntfy.
But the gentleman from Maryland said yes
" terday, that the do&rine was not only nov- f
el hot that it had been decided-againft in t
three or four inftanees. In the British i
Treaty, he said, the house decided against r
the power to refnfe an appropriation. If v
sixty-seven members who voted on the occa- |
fion, did not understand their votes, that f
might be the cafe ; but he believed that t
would not be infilled upon. The gentleman c
was equally unfortunate in the other inftan- 1
ces he adduced, «sin none of them had the' '
question been decided against.
But it was said, if even the house had the (
power, it ought not now to exercise it, be- ,
cause the neceflary information beinglsdged (
with the Executive, they could not form a |
proper judgment upon it. He believed, '•
however, the house had -a right to all infor- '
matron which related to fubjeils upon which '
they were called to atl. But the commit- t
Ke had fufficient knowledge on the fubjefl, t
to determine there could be no connexion i
between this country and Prussia, to render ;
aminifter oeceflary there; for no gentleman
had even coojedtured an use for such a char
' after at that court. He agreed that it was -]
the duty of the President to carry on the ,
details of foreign correspondence, where the t
Legislature determined to have ministers,
but he did not believe his power extended '
beyond this. But with refpeft to inforßjg- '
tion, even the body who were called upon (
to concur in the appointment of ministers, (
had no more than that house. The mere t
nomination was sent to the Senate, without i
any thing more than the general reasons for
the measure.
The gentleman from Delaware gave a
clue to the conftrudion of the constitution,
whitii he did not mean to attach to the gen
tleman himfelf. f He said that the executive
department was one which required support 1
in order ta preserve Jt; because the heredita- 1
ry chief magistrate of Great-Britain, with all '
the patronage h<i pofleffes, would not be a
•bie to (land against the House of Commons ,
if it were not for the members of venal bo- 1
roughs. Thi9 doftrine was a little strange,
and when he heard gentlemen hold such
high uotions of executive power, if the ft rift .
letter of the constitution w»uld not support
the doftrine he contended for, there would
be a strong temptationto stretch it, to coun
teraft what appeared to him so repugnant
to the spirit of a republicsff government.
He was told that he had introduced very
unnecefiary topics into this debate, and that
the increase of power and patronage in the
President, had nothing to do in this ques
tion ; but gentleman must allow, that if he
• finccrely thought, that the power of deter
mining what Foreign ministers (hould be em
ployed was in that house, and he saw them !
etnployed where they could be of no poflible j
■ use, that he wasjuftified iu bringing forward
the difeffffion. But it vyas said, the power ;
was so small, as to be unworthy of notice :
hut he supposed so far as the appointment
to office was goDe into without necessity, it j
■ was for the purpose of patronage. It was
said, however, that this patronage was not j
«nhcjentto ground an alarm upon. Were ;
theytihen to wait until the mifchief was
done i It would be too late, when the tyf
tera was completely matured, to cheek it.
It eould only be done <t its commencement.
And when gentlemen saw that one of the
objeftt oi government had invariably been
to increase officers and faLries, there was
i was fnOk'ient Canfe. for alarm. Biit it Ta»J I
I further fa.'d, that if there was danger out ; '
of the wails of that hottfe, there vraa none j ,
'in the legislature!. He did not mean to in
sinuate that majorities were produced by in- t
Silence. He tilled if measures were brot I
forward, which were inimical to the puolic
good, they would be rejefted as they had '
heretofore been. He believed however, that j,
this business of Foreign Intercourse were £
; it continued, might become dangerously in-<
j fluential on the legislature itfelf, as they had
; seen, from what had r already taken place, I
that persons for thjfe appointments, were e
to be fele&ed from men of a certain opinion f
in that body.
But no injury, it wis afTerted, could arise from '
executive influence, unless the office was perma i
nent. Ah executive upon a f<tur years lease, 1
could do no harm. Mr. N. did rot know that
being in office only four years, prevented him j
from uling his influence during that time; and H
in.proportion to that influence, would be his ef
.: forts to retain his fituitiem. He was net faying j
that these things had really happened, but that (
■ they might be reasonably expelled to lake glace. (
The committee .were told, however, that ambi- j
tipn was only a Tegiflative property. He thought, t
he kad made concessions enough, when he said j
that legislatures migh: make encroachments in j
this-way ; he believed history would uniformly j
(hewjthat executives had never failed to aim at 1
an increase of their power. f
: When he was up before, one of the reasons ]
which he gave, for reft raining the diplomatic i
i intercourse, was, that men only of a particular
i political opinion were appointed to office. Ma- 1
; ny of the gentlemen who oppo/ed this motion, '
, ! had acknowlededfhe faft, and were afraid on
[ ly, that it might not always b# observed. If
this were the cafe, the appointment to office,
1 could operate only to corrupt the public opinion,
and influence the elections of the country. £Mr
' Dana desired to know to what extent, he con
: fidered the executive determination to go ] He
; replied, that he understood that no man was to
, be entrusted with an office who had found fault
r with executive measures. This had been seve
ral times declared, though it was true, the gen
" tleman from Maflachufetts had endeavoured to
' foffen the business by fuppofmg that certain offi
ces would be excepted. He laid, he would cn
- quire inio the operation of this determination,
t The gentleman from Penafylvania (Mr. Sit-
T greaves) said, it wasperfeflly jult,as the prefi
' dent must think himfelf fight. He agreed that
this principle ihould go as far as it eould ; but
" the gentleman must acknowledge, that it was
3 not* constitutional idea, that theprefident must
- be right. The constitution provided that he
3 should be tledled every faur years, in orderthat
j the people might judge whether he had ailed
2 tight or wrong ; for the Englilh doitrine,
" that the King can 'Jo no wrong,"'was not a
e dopted in this country. Upon the principle of
* the president being always right, it had been
n said that he ought not to appoint ministers whose
t 'opinions would Militate against their duty. But
e hs might differ with the gentleman with refpefl
to the extent of this opinion. He did not him
felf know, that it was necessary, at a time when
we were desirous of peace, to have a secretary of
' state, whose manifeftoes were calculated only for
n the eve of a war, and who seemed to be hurry
[l ing on as if it were considered that he pofTeffed
| most merit who was moll aitive in promoting a
£ war, Heagreed, that when a perfon'a opinions
difqualified hire from duly executing an office,
the president w.ould aft right in hot appointing
1 such an one ; but he understood the determina
tion to extend to all offices, which was profe
n cuting one half of the people of America, mere
i- ly because they have thought fopi* of the exe
e, cutive measures wrong. Such a resolution was
equallyjinjuft and ilMberafffince it was not ner
ceffary that a colleAor, * military officer, &e. in
e order duly t» perform his duty, thould have an
*" opinion dire<sfly eorrefponding with that of the j
d chief magiflrateoftheUnit<;d States. Ifthisprlnci
a pie Were to be carried into the judiciary, could
1 ) a man whom government cafled a diftrgamier,
r _ expedl io find justice in a court formed of such
materials ? Ihe only operation of such a prin
ciple in offices where particular fentimenvs were
not neceflary to the execution ef the duties of
the office, must be the corruption of public opin
n ion, it tends to destroy the freedom ofeletflions,
; r as well of the president, as of the legislature.
n If gentlemen think that the president of the
United States cannot support his office, with
out a patronage similar to that of the Kihg of
ls "England, they are right in wilhing for an ex-
IC tension of this-influence j but he could not agree
ie to yield it, because he had sworn not to do it.
s, The example of England ought te be a fufficient
J warning to rhe people of this country, how they
fuffer theii> executive to become corrupted j for
the ahufes of that country would never have
" been borne to this day, had not the people been
s > deceived intp a belief, that they had a shire in
rc their government, by representation, whieh, in
it fa£t, they had not.
>r (The remainder of this speech to-morrow. J •
, i '
a WEDNESDAY JANUARY 30.
n From the journal of yetterday's proceedings in'
' congress, it appears that the buSnefs whiih took
1 place .-.fter the doors were dosed, was as fellows :
'e Thehouß being cleared, Mr. Sewallflated, that
■t he'+ad keen informed, in a manner which left no
a . deubt of the truth "f the fail, that, in the pref
(jj ence of the house whilst G.tirg, Matthew Lyon,a
member from the ft»te of Vermont, did this day
a " commit a violent attack «id gross indecency upon
US the person of Roger Grifwold, another member
0- if this honl°e ; and, in order to bring the business
e before the house, that he had prcpareda refoluiton,
which he read in Ms place, and delivered at the
' clerk's takle. A question was then taken in the
" following wor <1 s :
rt " Does the matter.so communicated require fe
ld crecy.
n . This motion pafled enanimoufly in the negative,
and the jgdleries were opened.
The hotifs then proceeded to consider the motion
made by the member from Mafiachufetts, wfcich
r » was read as follows:
at " Resolved, that Matthew Lyon, a member of
this house, jfor a violent attack and gross indecency
committed on the person of Roger Grifwold, ano
lf- ther member, in the prefente of this hotife, whilst
he Cttiag, be, f»r this disorderly behavior, expelled
r . therefrom "
It was moved that the resolution be referred to a
committee, to he denominated " a committee of
m ; privileges, with icftruitioHs to enquire into the
ile i whole matter of the said refolutioh, and to report
rd ■ the fame with their opinion thereon to the house."
„ : This question was taken by yeas and nays as sol
' lows:
TEAS— MefTrs. Baer, Bartlett, Bayard, Brook*,
Bullock, Champlin, Chapman, Cochran, Coit,
ic j Craik Dana, Davis, Dennis, Dent, Evaui, A. 1 of
as ■ ter, D Fofier, J. Freeman, N. Freeman, Glen,
• Goodrich, Gordon, Harper, Hartley, Hindman,
1 Hofmer, Imlay, Kittera, Lyman, <viachir, Mat
re ' thews, Morris, I. Parker, Pi/ickuey, Reed, Rut
as ledge, Sewall.Shepard, Sinnickfon, bitgreaves. N.
'f- Smith, Sprague, Thatcher, Thomas, I t<omfoii,Til
jt, linghalt, Van Alen, Wadfworth J. Williams—49.
. A AVS—MefTr, Baldwin, Bird, Benton, Bl^wnt,
' ' Brent, Bryan, Burgess, Obeli, T.' laibi.rne, V .
• Clsibomr, Glay, v lopton, Dawfin. hlmepdorf,
-H Fifidlev, Fowler, Gallatin, Gillcff is,6tegg,Grove,
ac Hausia, Harrifon, Havers, lltUter, Holmes, Jones,
Locka, Mscoii, M'Slenachan, WljowiJl.Trtilledf*, J
New, Nichalis, J Parker, Skinne-, S Hmifh,
Sprigg, Btar!or.t, Sumpfer, A. Tpg;, J. Trjgg,
yarnum', Ve ; aide, f. Wi'liaTM —44.
Ordered, that Meflrs. Pifeqt'iejr, ,Venah!«, Kit
tera, Ifaae Parker, R. William*, Cochran, and
Dent, be a committee for .the purp«f<i.
A motion was then made that the house come
to the followin > resolution :
" Resolved, that the house will confwler it a J
high breach »f privilege if rither of thv members
shall enter into any p rfonal c»nteft until a decision
of the house shall be had thereon."
A motion was made to add the following words
to the end thereof: ,
' And that the laid Mitthaw I,yon lie consider
ed in the euftody of tbe ferjeant at arm i until the ®
further order of the house." _ <
The yeas and nays were taken upon this qvef- (
tion as follows : r
TXjlS—McfTrsi Bartlett, BayarJ, Coit, Craik, J
Dana. Dentiis. Evans, A Foflcr, D Poller, Glen,.
Goodrich, Gordon, Hartley, Hindtnac, Imlay,Kit- t
tera, Ly ■ an, Machir, I. Parker, Pinckniy, Hut- t
ledge, Sewall, Shepard, Sitgr aves, N. Smith, r
Sprague, Thatcher, Thomas, Wadfworth—l9. • a
HAYS—M.tfir*. Baer, Baldwin, Bard, Beuton, I
Blount, Brent, Brooks, Bryan, Bullock, Burgos, f
Cabell, Champlin, Chapman, '!'. Cl'dhorrie, W-. (?.' !
Claiborne, Clay, Clopton, Cochran, Davis,Dawfon, '
Dent, Elmendorf, Findlay, Freeman. N. '
Freeman, Gailatin, Gillefpie, Gregg, Hanna, Har- '
per, Harrifon, Havens, Hcitter, Holme«, Hofmer,
Jones, Locke, Macon, Matthews, M'Clenachan, (
M'Dowyll, Mille'dge, Marris, New, Nicholas, J. {
Parker,Simiitkfon, Skinn«r,S. Smith, Sprigg,Stan
ford, Sumpter, Thomson, Tillinghaft, A. Trigg, .
J.'Trigg, Van Aleu, Varnum, Venable, J. Will
iams, R. Williams—6l.
The motion being negatived, the -fcnfe of the
honfe was then taken upon the main qu'edion, as
originally offered, and it was carried The honfe
adjourned about 8 o'clock jn the evening. -
After the journal was read this morning,
Mr. D. Foster reported a' bill for •.*(■' relief of
Lucy Clark, which was'twice tfead and committed
sot to-monow.
The Speaker desired me»)bers to prjpare their
ballets for the eleflion"of Three managers of the
impeachment against William Blount, which re
mained to be eleijed" ,
Mr. Pinckney hoped the house would now a(l
---jourh,' in order that the Committee of Privileges
might proceed in the business which had'heen com
mitted t<» them, as"lt wasdefirable that it should
bedifpofed of asfoon aspofhble.
The motion for adjournment was put and nega
tived. 4 to 33.
The house then proceeded to the eleition ufthe
three managers, and the votes having been collec
ted, Messrs. D."Foster aad Jones were again ap
pointed tellers ; and having counted the votes, re
ported as follows :
Thait the whole number of votes was ninety,
that therefore 46 made a choice ; that
Mr. Dennis had 61 votes
Evans 01 ,
Imlay
And that 0/ course they were duly elected.
Mr. Macon, from the committee of revifaland
unßnifhed business, made a report on the fuhjedl of
the salaries of the decks employed in the public of
fices, which was committed for to morrow.
The motion for adjournment was again renew
ed and carried. Adjourned.
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORlCjanuar/, 31.
On Monday cvenhig last, the new Theatre
Was opened to the most overflowing house
that wa* ever witnefled in this eity.Though
the commiflionets have been constrained to
open it inan unfiniihed date, it still gave high
fatiafa&ion. The essential requifitei of fee
ing and hearing hare been happily attained.'
We-do not ever remember to have been in
j any Theatre where the tietf of the stage is
: so complete from all parts of 4he house;™-
' where the aftors are heard with such diftinft
nef?. i I
The house is made to contain about 2000
persons. , The audience part, though want
ing in those brilliant decorations which the
artists have deiigned for it, yjtexhibited a
neatness and limplicity which were "highly a
greeable. The ttage was etery thing which
could be wiih'ed. The scenery was execute
led in the most maftfrly style- The exten
• fivenefs of the scale upon which the fcens
are executed ; the correftnefs of the designs
and the elegance of the painting, prefeated
the most beautiful views which imagination
can conceive. The scenery was, of itfelf,
worth a visit to the Theatre.
The company are k,nown to the public;
and they played with great spirit. We in
deed think it the best company of comedi
ans which has as yet appeared on the boards
of any theatre in this place; and we presume
they will this season, receive an uncommon
(hare of public patronage,
r Great credit is due to the Meflrs. Man
gins , who were the architects of the honfe,
for their ikilful and commodious arrange
i ments: and too nt«ch cannot be said for the
. fcienceof Mr. Ciceri, as the-machinift, and
1 for his taste as painter. They are ar
tists who would do honour to any country,
\ and are a great acquisition to this.
Another robfcery, we are informed, was
committsdthe night before last, at. the house
! of James Temple, esq. on the Greenwich
road, by 8«or to persons: and we are fur
ther informed, that some circumstances at
tending it, to strong iufpicions that it
mnft have been perpetrated, or instigated,
1 by persons /who had a more accurate know
' ledge of the situation of the family than
p could have been attained by general iparau
r ders.
1 A little after 8 o'clock last evening (fays
the' South, Carolina Stat? Gazette of Janna'
, ry 13,) this city was alarmed by the cry of
f fire. It commenced on the weft fide of U
nion-street, in the house of M. Ejigland.
', The night was calm, wind at. S. W. but
the danger was formidable from the great
number of wooden buildings adjacent.
, Three or four houses, besides back build
> ings have been burnt; the particular loflics,
we have not learnt. •
' " ■ * 1 ■ ■■y
Insurance Office of the State of
Pennsylvania.
Fe/ruart I," 1798.
THE Direflorshave this day deiltre I a divider d
f of seventy dollars nft e*ch ftuie of tl.e ifock of the
c mn.uiv. whish Vvill bc to tl,c. Sto
or their lega' rrrr-f«*nt3tive. af'e'* the fO t hinll.
JAMES S. COX, Pr'Jldent.
\ Febru ry' i » ttijt
Ftlru ry i
ifje Csa3ct te*
PHILADELPHIA, J
THURSDAY F.VF.NIMG, FEBRUARY I. r
Mr. Grifwold, —Lyon,—and a hint r
to Mr. Baldwin. (
*ik> rr.NNO,
> IT Urems as if .tlir {Eriijors of fotae-Ne t
cannot tread the path of truth even on the most recent t
occurrence A truth lodjtd in their mind* immedi- c
atelv undergoes foil© horrid diflortion, and is cast
forth the vUr abmtion of f alfehftod and mal'ce. Such
i$ Bache's pecnunt of the affair between Mr Gris
woip and Lyon the one a man as refpefHblc, ho
norabie, and useful to hiacountry, as the ocher isthe
' reverse. Io vour gazette of this evening, you have
given a crreft statement of the fa£U relative to this
bttfiuef*, as I learn from ftveraj'iburcea oPauhentic
testimony. A rtioft unmanner'd ruffian has offered
» Mr. Griswolb an insult never to be endured. With
a pre fence of mind pot to have ,beeo expefted from
, his strength and {\>»rit, but highly honorable, he re ?
framed from iWrfciug him' to his fret, even to the de
' ftruciHon of that refpeft and order which ftiould ever *
be observed to the Representatives 6\ America. The j
' House have taken, as they ought, the affroot upon {
themleivcs ; but as ihey have not done it -upon Mr ,
Gris wold's application, it cannot $e jTuppofed hf
,has relinquished his right to redress feinafeYf, if they ]
' shall fall ihort of doing him jufticc. If the House. (
then, fktsll be so 101 lor indifferent to their own dig- {
nitv ; if they lhail be so tame or so timid, under the
> ' moil profs and unprecedented outrage thai has ever
been offered to a public body; or if they ihall be so \
funk in the filth of party and difhoiiour, as still to
- fufirr this beast to fit ametig them «\>on equal terms ; j
s it is to be hoped Mr. Griswolb wiil not fuffer so
; base an example to influence him, or restrain his re
sentment, As I yon has received every species of in
sult, and been used to nothing else all his life, from
f the days ofr his fortitude to his highest e altation ;as
J diftionor and contempt have been hc4p-d upon him
for yean without etfeft, or any excitement of feeling ;
r it must be taken for granted that he has no feelin? for
e such punifoment. - His viis and worthlefacur.ale is all
that know * fenfibil tv about bun ; and an appeal mud
be made to that I therefore am of opiuion 'hat Mr. ,
Griiwold should most inflexibly rcfolve to beat this
fellow daily and every day, until «ne or the uhe* of
6 them IVialTbe compelled o leave that
ly Mr. Griswold Ihou'd never fit again with b m
as an equal and a gentleman. If Lyon is to be pro
tested and juftified, and He is to br e*o«lled for tak
ing a just vt ngelnce on his brutality, he will have lit
tle canfe of regret at leaving a b"d> so insensible to its
.e own dignity, so unjust to his injuries
> How happens it haft Mr Baldwin, who, fortu
>- time since, made such a piteous petition to Houfe,
to prfett him trom a fair meeting with Gen. Gunn
has so changed his opinion about privilege, and the
« fanftity of the persons of the members, as,
' out, to vo*e in favor of this brutal assault. upon Mr
Griswold, and to pTOtclft-Ihe offender from pun
ilbmcnt. 1 wilh some member would cill on *Mr,.
Baldwin for his opinion on this fubjeft.
January 31. - DECUS.
The Crfscbnt Frigate, Captain New
s. man, has failed from PoTtfmouth, New-
Hampihire, for Algiers. Mr. O'Brien,
'■ Confut General of the United States to that
government went paiTenger:
Two new born infants were left at differ
ent houses in this city, on the fame evening
of the present week. The one in an entry
in Market Street, theother iii-Fourth street.
re The inhuman wretches who hare done this,'
le S 1 " cve T 'king ihort of murder, are
informed, that the infants were both f«nt,to
the Alms Houie, after being
neceflary cloathing, where those concerned
c _ in the vile tranfa£lion may learn further
j; particulars ; and where the mothers, if such
; u they may be called, should they Wigfal
j s compunftion for the past, may atone in
Jr some degree for their inhumanity, by minis
tering to their future necessities, thould the
infants survive the shock firfl given, which
is not often the cafe.
10 •
+TT*
Capt. Meany, of the Rose, from the
ie Isle of France, informs that the fleet under j
a Admiral Rainier, eorupofing the expedition
a " against Manilla, had set fail fr»m Calcutta ;
but meeting with .the loss os-three of the
"" transports, or store-ships- inthe ritar Ganges,
one of which contained all the field artillery:
The fleet had flopped at Pula Penang, an
n j island in the ftrf-igHt6 of Malacca, where it
is fiippofed the Admiral would remain some
j"? time, or return to Calcutta.This intelligence
' was brought by the corvette Bnile Guelle,
from Tranquebar, sent from the Isle of
c; France, *o gain information of the deflina
n- tion of the Britith"; and by the Sea-flower,
li- of the port, from Pondicherry, the fuper
dj cargo of which ship Mr. Boband) infor- i
no med Capt. M. that he had heard of the loss
>n of ati American fliip.
The French frigate la Pruneyfe was the
n- only (hip of war at the Isle of France the
"e, other (hips of Admiral Sercey's fqnadron
e- being out on a cruise. There had been no
he arrivals for three months previous to that of
nd the Rose ; and as the inhabitants depend
ir- upon American veflelsfor supplies, ptovifions
y, became very scarce and dear.
Meflrs. Montbrun, Charles, and Joseph
Deibaflayns, planters of the isle of Bourbon,
as and Capt. Jonathan Derby, of the Ketch
fe Jolfti of Salem, came paflengers with Capt.
ch Meany.
ir- The following were the prices current
»t- October 18 :—Beef 12 dollars ; pork 15
it flour S ; Bordeaux wine 30 per bhd ; but
rd, ter i-6th per pound ; lard l-Bth ; coffee 17
w- to 18 per bag j cotton I-3d per lb : indig#
an 1-2 j Manilla 1 1-2 ; and sugar from 10 to
iu- 12. ■"
Capt. Meany favored us with Madras
Gazettes, to 19th of July ; hut theydo not
iy« contain any material intelligence.
ia'
of PROCLAMATION.
By John Whyti,Efij. Major-Oeoeral Com
manding in Chi«fhi« Britinnic Majefty'tforc
lut «in St. Domingo,&t. &c. &c.
. at Men of all nations however differing in po
litical principles, and on forms of government,
. , have ever agreed on the necrflity of bringing to
public and exemplary puniihment, the authors
c '» and perpetrators of ails of piracy and private
aflafllnation. An a<sl of this mture, attended
= with the most horrid circuwflances of at
trocity, committed on men and women, officers
»nd privates,indifcriiniiiately, having lately hap
pened oh board his Britannic majeity's frigite
the Hrrmione, which was seized on 0/ about
crd the 14th September last, by » part of the crew,
the and carried by them after the harjarous murder
l«r» of more than forty officers, fcaitien, mariner, and
women, into the Spunifh p«rt of La Guira ;
ih's is to call upon all men, to ass.st to their ut
t moil, itifochring atd bringing toj'ifiice the per
petratori. Ant! Idohertby promlfc areuaccj ,
of mc thnufand DOLLARS; on the fafe delivery
•o any officer of thr lea or Imd icrvic<. ■w "to
the civil p wer in any of kK lijitannic majtlly'i
dominions, any the persons concerned tq
the above horrible lA And t doproniile full
pardmi to(hofe f principals excepted) who mat
assist i.. feiiihtf and delivering up »(> justice, the
ringleaders <.f tliif mutiny anrl murder.
His mrttt OatlSo'ic Majt sty's "governor of L*
Guira, refjfed to lake advantage of tins traite
tous aft ; and I have can fed this proclamation
tq- be tranfla'.ed irto French and Spanilh, thai
thc'fe ruffians may not find an asylum in
Country.
Given undpr my hand and fe.il at arms, a*,
Portnu P/ince-, the fitft day of December,
in the thirfy-eightb year .of his majelty's
reign, Sinnnque Domini 1797.
(Signed)
JOHN WHYTt,Major Geaeial.
Bj order ef the General.
W.J THOMeson,Secreta»y.
. We mentioned in yeftcrday's paper an
embargo at the Havannafa, which we have
since learnt took place on" account of the
failing of two lirge'frigates, and several
firaa'ller vessels of war for Porto Rico, with
several transports with m«n and flares; a
packet from C6runna, and a paqket for
Cadiz. This fleet was driven back three
days after by a gale of wind' from the north
ward, except one of the frigates, which
was cast away en Salt Key ; the men and
guns, &c. were however saved by the o
ther fhipa.
Themulattoes, negroes'andGharaibs have
risen and taken pofteffion of the ifiaad of
Trinidada, except the capital.
Three regiments had failed from Marti
nitfo to the relief of Trimdatla.
The Thestre at Richmond was burnt on
the 24th ult.
James Jackson is eleifted Governor of
the State of Gfcisrgia. t
rT '
A .Nt w-Tcirk, y<xn. 31.
Lift eveving arrived the ship Petit v- ranee
capt. Williatnfon, in 16-days from Port au-
Prince, who failed under convoy of the
British government Lion, of 20 guns,
in company of the following named veffek :
Brig Lively, C°*> of Philadelphia.
Patty, Ropes, of Salem.
Harmony, Marshall, of Cbarle'flon.
Ship Mercury, Morrifon, of New-York.
_ Success,. Miller, of '
Schr. Little-John, of . <&o,
• Hope, Putman, of Baltimore.
Sloop Dolphin, Tappen,'of Newburyport.
- Vessels left in-£brt-au' Prince when capt. W.
-
Brig Active, Elliot,.for Philadelphia.
Delaware, Dupu'y,;. - do;
Schr. Minet va, Anduale, do.
Little Will, Pearfo'n, do.
Elizabeth, Frafer, . > do.
V- Thomas, 'Vandyke; do.
The following American vessels were inGo
' niives go the 7th January :
Brig Ann, Alpffat, -of Philadelphia.
Schr. Milton, Cfedman, Boftoo.
Dolphin,. Clark, Baltimore.
Sloop Thomas, and Sally Norfolk.
On the I2th of Jan. the British govern
ment fyip JLingftos, of itfgoos. capt. Fer
gufon, failed from .Port-au-Prince, for jC.
N. :jVfolrj and in chafs of a French brigand
barge, .run on Aiore, where the captain and
ictev abandoned awd; left heiV after which
tjje French took poffMfibn of her ; ftie was
'allowed to 1 i)e a remarkable fait failcr.
TBe Perfev.erance had 13 days passage to
the Capes of the DelawaFft
I- - Sanie-cveiring arrived the British armed
; ' brig Earl of Moira, capt. Fawfon, from
: Halifax, in I I days." •
IN i 1 -tAiRe,.
TO-MORROW EVENING,
FEBRUARY J. '
Will be prefentfd, (for the firJt time in Ameri
ca) a new Tragedy ( ri three AtSls,) called
Fenelon;
OR, THE NUNS OF CAMBRAY.
[Altered from a celebrated French Play of that
name, performed at Paris with unbounded
aoplawfe.]
Fenelon, ( Arcbbilhop of Cambray)
" ■ Mr. Pcnnell
Dclrtance, Mr. Warren
Oificer of the Hoiifehojd, Mr. T. Warrell
Eloifa, Mrs. Merry
Amelia, Mrs, Marlball
I ...•>■ l£ai(ra, Mrs. Francis
Abbess, Mrs. t'JEflrange
. To which will be added, a Comi Optra, (
1 three Acts), called
Inkle and Yarieos
1 [ With the otignal overture and accompani■
1 inents.J
Inkle, Mr Marlhall
Sir ChriAopher Curry, Mr Warren
Medium, Mr Francis
Camply, Mr Fox
Trudge, Mr Bernard
1 Planter, Mr Warrell
• Walter, Mr T. Warrell
Yarico, Mrs Warrell
Na ciffa, Mrs L'Efirange
, Wowfki, Mrs C lmixon
Patty,. Mrs Bernard.
. jj On Saturday; (hy defirej the firft part of
King Hentry IVth, or, the Humour* of Sir J»hn
FaHl'.ff; with entertainments.
F O U N D,
In Sprue- flreet, Philadelphia/ on Sunday even
■ ing th; lift inft a trunk*.—Enquire at No. 50,
- , North Fgiiitli Street.
Eebruairy t *3t.
[i Edward Dunant,
] ; No. 149, S»uth Prqpt-ftieet,
, i TTAS on hand, of the earjro, per Johanna, di
. rl reA from Mahjra, for sale, •
j 300 kegs fun Raifi. I
- -i b iocmßailuu
, jjo jars 3
Ijo boxes Muscatel do.
~ r 80 jar« Grape*
»o keg* Fig«—and
' Malaga' Wine in hhds. and qr. calks
For freight or charter,
J •' fa id Brig JOHANNA, beirg
; tot~* * D«ne of aboat aco toss buithen.
irßß^SSs£y-Apply as above.
January |l. 3*PROPOSAL S
FOR
CARRYING THE PUBLIC MAILS
on the following Post Roads will be re
ceded at the General Post Office until
the 14th day of February oext inclusive.
PENNSYLVANIA, lift.
I. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, Newc»f
■tle, Cantwell's bridge, Duck creek, Dover, Fred
erica, Milford, Cloughs, Dagfborough. Trap,
Snowhill, Horntewn and Accomac court house to
'Northampton court hsufe three times a week.
April Ito Nrvcmttr 15. Leave Philadelphia ev
ery Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday at 4 a M.and
arrrive at Northampton court house on Thufday,
Saturday andM«nday at 7Jr m. Returning. Leave
Northampton court house every Friday, Monday
and Wednesday at 2 a m, and arrive at Philadel
phia on Monday, Wednesday and Friday by 7 I-a
p M.
November 15 to April I. Leave Philadelphia ev
ery fuefd y, Thursday aad Saturday at 6 a m,
and arrive at Northampton court house on Friday,
Mooday -and Wednesday by 7 t tt. Returning—
Leave Northampton court hoafc every Saturday,
Tuesday and Thurlday at 6 am, and arrive at
Philadelphia on Wednesday, Friday and Monday
by 7 r m,
VIRGINIA.
1. From Northampton court house to Norfolk
these times a week
April r to November IJ. Leave Northampton
court house every Monday, Wcdnefday and Fri
day at 8 pm, and arrive at Norfolk in 24hours.
Returning—Leave Norfolk every Wednesday, Fri
day and Monday a 4 a m, and arrive at Northamp
ton court house in twenty four hours.
November 1$ to April I. Leave Northampton
court house everyTuefday, Thtirfday and Saturday
at 3a m, and arrive at Norfolk in 14 hsurs. Rt-
Jumirt-r-l .tavc Norfolk every Monday, Wedisef
day an by 4 a m, and arrive at Northamp- (
ton court house in 24 hours.
PRNNSXLVANIA 'J MARYLAND.
3. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, New
port,Chriiliana.Middletown,Warwick andGoerge
towlicrnfsroadstoChelferftoivnthreetimesa week.
May tf» November 1. Leave Philadelphia every
Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday by 9 PM, andar- j
rive at Cheftertown the next days by 8» v. Re- 1
turning—Leave Cheftertown every Monday, We J- |
flefday and Friday by 9 p m, and arrive at Phila
delphia the next days by Jim.
Nnet her Ito May I. Leave Philadelphia eve
ry Monday and Friday by 9 a m, and arrive at
Cheftertown on Tntfday aad Saturday by 4 r w.
Kcturning—Leave Cheftertown every Monday md
Friday byß am, and arrive at Philadelphia on
Tuesday and Saturday by 4 p m.
MARYLAND.
4. From Cheftertown by Centerville, Eaflon,
Newmarket, Vienna, Salisbury, Snowhill andPrin
cefs .Ann to Salisbury once a week.
Receive the msil at Cheftertown every Wedticf
diy at 7 ato arrive at Ea(lonby 4PM. Leave
, JjatWn onThuifiay by 6 am, ariive at Snowhill
0:1 Friday by 1 p. M, and at rrinceis Ann by 6 p.
m. Returning—LeavePrincefs Ann on Saturday by
ISAM, arrive at Eafton the i)t»t day or Mqnday
by 6 P'M Leave Fafton on Tu:fday by 8 a w,:ind
arrive at .Cheftertown lame day by 4 t m.
j. From tferford by.Scl-Air-tothe UlackhorXc
ones, a w:Ji.
Leave Harford every Tuesday by 10 A m, and
arrive ar Black fcorfe Hy 6p m. Returning—Learve
Biackhoi fe on Wednesday by 6 a m, and arrive at
Hariord the next Tuesday hy 9 a m
PENNSYLVANIA, MARYLAND and VIR
GI.XIA.
6. From Baltimore by JBlacfchorTe toYorkiown
Pa. once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Friday by 4 p m, arriv
al B'.ackhorfe on S»tuyday by 10 a m, and arrive
at Yorktown by 8 Pm. Returning—Leav.'York
twwvn every Thursday by 7 a.m, and arrive at Bal
timore on Friday noon.
7. Fi*om Yorktown by Hanover, Peterlburg,
Taueyton and Fredericktown to Letfburg once a
week.
Leave Yorktown every Monday at 8 a M.irrive
at fredericktown on Tu l'dayby jm, andarrive
at Lecfburg on Wednesday by sf m. Returning—
Lesvc Leelburg every Friday tt noon, ana arrive
nt Yoiktown by 6 P m on Sunday.
8. From Yorktown by Abbotllo .vn,Gcttifburg,
Fairfield, Willianfport, Martinf
"ourg, Winchester. Stevenfburg and Strafburg to
Woodftock once a Week.
Leave Yorktown every Sunday by noon, arrive
at Martinfburg on Tuesday by 11 am. Leave
Martinfburg on Tuesday noon andarrive at Wood
ftock on'Wednefday by 6p m. Returning—Leave
Woodftock on Thursday by 6 a m, arrive at Mar
tinfburg on Friday by 11 .< h, andarrive at York
town 011 Sunday by 11 a m.
9. From Pittfburg by Cannonfburg, Waihing
ton, Weft Liberty and Wheeling to the mouth of
Filhing creek once a week (contra<sl for one year
only.)
I eave Fittfburg every Friday at 9 a m, and ar
rive at Filhing creek 011 Su.tday at 9a m Return
ing— Leave Fifhir.g creek on Wednesday at 8a m,
and arrive at Pittfburg on Friday at 8 a m.
10. From Washington by Brownfvillc and Union
to Morgantown once a week.
Leave Union every Friday at 6 am, and arrive
at Washington by 6p m. Leave Walhington on
Saturday at 6 am, arrive at Morgantown on Sun
day at 6p m. Leave Morgantown on Monday at
8 am, andarrive at Union by 3 p m.
II From Baltimore by Fredericktown, Eliza
bctSf own, Greencaftlc and Chaniberfburg to Ship
penibuig once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Friday by 11 a m,arrive
at Fredericktown on Saturday by 10 a m, at Eli
zabcthtown in the evening, and at Shippenfburg
011 Monday by 7r m. Returning—Leave Shippenf
bnrg every Tuesday at 9 a m, arrive at Elizabeth
town at Bpm ,at Fredericktown cr Wednesday 1
noon, and at Baltimore on Thursday by 5 PM.
MARYLAND.
12. From Eliaabethtown by Hancock and Old
town to Cumberland once a week.
LcavsCUmberland every Saturday by 6 a M.and
arrive at Elizahethtown on Monday by 8a m. |
Returning—Leave Elizabethtown every Monday by
jo a m, and arrWe at Cumberland on Tuesday by
6 pm.
13. From Baltimore to Annapolis once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Monday at 8 am, and :
arrive at Annapolis by 5P m. Returning—Leave
Annapolis every Tuesday at 8a m, and ai-rive at '
Baltimore by j pm. <
14. From Baltimore hy Annapolis, Queen Ann«,
Upper Mar Iborough, Pifcataway.Porttobaceo, 1- <
lensfrefli, Newport and Chaptico to Leocardtown <
•ace a week. i
Leave Baltimore every Friday at 10 a m, arrive' •
at Annapolis at 5 PM. Leave Annapolis on Sa- I
turday a: 6 am, arrive at Upper Marlborough
by nocn,arrive atPifcataway by 6 p m. & arriveat
Leonardtown evury Monday forenoon by 9 o'clock. (
Returning —Leave Leonardtown every Monday at 3 1
pu, arrive at Pifcataway on Tuesday by 6p m v
arrive at Upper Marlborough on Wednesday by
11 am, andarrive at Annapolis by 6p m. Leave 2
Annapolis on Thursday by 7a m, and arrive at F
Baltimore k. *'
15 From Annapolis by Lower Marlborough,
Huntington and Calvert ccurt house to St. Leon
ards once a week
Leave Aiinapoli-- every Saturday at 9 a m, antl
arrive at St. Leonards »n Monday hy jp». R t .
turning — Leave St. Leorards every Monday at 4
p m, and arrive at Annapolis the next Saturday by
6 A M.
16. Froo» Bladenfhurg by Ufpcr Marlborough, | to
■ Not ingham, Lower Marlborough, Acquafco,3en
I ntdiA ind Charlottchall to Chaptico once a week.
I Leave BUdenfburg every Saturday at 9a m, ar
rive at Upper Marlborough by noon and at Lower
Marlboroughon Monday by 5 p m, 3c at Chaptico
0 by 6p m. Returning—LeaveChapticoeveryThurf
.. day at 6a m, and arrive at Bladcnlburg on Satur
day at 6 a m.
17. From Georgetown by Montgomery court
house to Fredericktown once a week.
Leave Georgetown every Friday fey 6 a m, and
arrive at Fredericktown by 6 pm. "Returning—
Leave Fpedericktown every Thursday by J a m,
and arrive at Georgetown by 6 p m.
l " VIRGINIA,
)y 18. From Woodftock by Newmarket, Rocking
-0 ham court house, Staunton, Lexington andFincaf
tle to Big Li«k once a week.
" Leave Woodftock every Thursday by 6a m, ar
rive at Staunton on Friday at Ip m. Leave Staun-
r ' ton every Friday at a pm, arrive at Big Lick on
c Sunday by 11 am. Returning—Leave Big Lick
on Sunday by 1 p m, arrive at Staunton every Tuef.
dsy by 11 a m. Leave Stauntom by 12 o'clock
a )noon) and arrive at Woodftock on Wcdnefday by
JPM.
19. From Big Lick by ry court house
' and Wythe court house to Abingdon once a week.
» Leave Big Lick every Sunday at I p m, arrive
at Wythe court house on Tuesday by 1 p m, and at
* Abingdon on Wcdnefday by 6p m Returning—
c Leave Abingdon every Thursday by 6a m, arrive
at Wythe court house on Friday by 2 V m, and ar
rive at Big Lick on Sunday by 11 a m. v
TENNESSEE.
1 20. From Abingdon, Vir. by Jonefborough
Greenville, Moffat's store and jeffcrfbn court houle
1 to Knoxvilie once a week. »
Leave Abingdon every Thursday by 6 a m, aT
' rive at Moifuts store on Saturday by 8 a m. Leave
Moffat* by 9 A M » and arrive at Knoxvilie on Sun
day by 10 a m. Returning—Leave Knuxville eve
ry Sunday by 2 P m, arrive at Moffats on Monday
''by3 pm. L«av§ Moffats <n Monday at 4 PM,
and arrive at Abingdon on Wednesday by 7 p m.
VIRGINIA.
2i. From Winche.ter by Romney to Moorfields
' 1 once a week.
Leave Winchester every Thursday at 6 a m, and
J arrive at Moor6eld<.n Friday by 6P M. Return
ing—Leave Moorfield every Saturday at 8 a M,and
arrive at Winchester on Sunday by 6 P M.
21 From Alexandria' by Centerville, Lceiburg
and Sheyherdilown to MarfinJburg once a week.
| Leave Alexandria every Wednsfday at 9a m,
| and arrive at Martinfburg on Friday by 10 a m;
1 Returning—Leave Martinfburg eVery Friday by
noon & arrive at Alexandria on Monday by 7 a m.
23. From Frederickfbburg by Port Royal, Lay
-1 totw, Tappahannock, Urbanna and Gloucelter court
house to Yorktown once a week.
Leave Frcderickfbupg every Wcdnefday at 6 a
m, arrive at Tappahannock on Thursday by 11
am. Leave Tappahannock at noon and arrive at
Yorkopwn on Saturday by ham. Returning—
Leave Yorktown every Saturday at 1 PM, arrive
1 at Tappahannock the next Monday noon and arrive
at Fredericklkftrg on Tuesday by 'j PM.
24. From Tappahannock by Richmond court
house, Weflmoreland court house, Jtinfa'.c, Farn
ham church and Northumberland court house to
Lancaster court house once a week'
Leave Tappahannock every Thursday noon and
arrive it L>ancafter court house on Saturday by 1
am. Returning—LeaveLancaiter court house ev
ery Saturday by 1 P.M. and arrive atTappahan- (
no«k on Monday by 11 a k.
2.f. From Frederickfturg by Culpeper court
house &Orangec. h. to Charlott«fvilleonce a Week.
Leave Frederickfburg every Tuesday acto am,
and arrive at Charlottefville on Thurtiay by 11 a
m. Returning—Leave Charlottefville on .Saturday
at 8 PM, ahd arrive at Fredsrickfburg onTwef
day by 6 am.
26. from Richmond by Goochland court
houle Columbia and Charlottdville to SUunton
once a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 1 p M, ar
rive at Charlottefville on Thursday by 11 A M.
Leave Charlortcfyille bv noon and arrive at '
Staunton Qn Priday by 11 am. Returning—
Leave Staunton oa Saturday by 6 A M, arrive at
Charlottefville by 7 p m, and arrive at Rich
mond the next Tuesday b,y-9 A M.
27. Frum Staunton by Bath court-house and
Sweet Springs to Greenbrier court-house once a
week.
Leave Stiunton every Saturday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Greenbrier court-house on Tuesday by
6p m. Returning—Leave Greenbrier eourt
houfeevery Monday by 9 a m, and arrive at
Staunton on Thursday by 8 P M.
28. From Charlottefvile by Warren, War
minfter, New-Market, Araherft court house, 1
Cabellfburg, and Maddifon to Lynchburg once
a week.
Leave Charlottefvillt every Thursday at 1 P ,
M. and arrive at Lynchburg on Saturday at 6 !
P M. Returning—Leave Lynchburg every
Tuesday by 6 am, and arrive at Charlottefville
on Thursday by 10 A M.
29. From Richmond by Hanovertown, Ay
letts arid Todds to Tappahannock once a week
or it' carried in stages as often at> they shall run.
Leave Richmond every Wednesday at 5 A m,
arrive at Todds at 3 p M, and at Tappahannock
on Thursday al 11 am. Returning—Leave
Tappahannock on Monday at 1 P m, and ar
rive at Richmond on Tuesday by 5 p M.
30. From Richmond by Hopkins's; Powha
tan court house, Cumberland court bou'if, Prince
Edward court house and Lynchburg to
London, once a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 8 A M,
arrive at Prince Edward on Wednesday at 6 P
m, and arrive at Lynchburg on Friday at 8 a m,
and at New-London by 10 An. Returning—
Leave New-London tvery Friday at 2 P M, ar
rive at Lynchburg by 5 p m, arrive at Prince
Edward on Saturday by 7 p M, and arrive at
Richmond on Monday by 4 p M.
31. From New-London by Liberty to Fincaf
tle once a week.
Leave New London every Friday at 1 p m,
and arrive atFincafile cn Saturday by 6 p m .
Returning—Leave Fincaftle on Monday at 5 A
m, and arrive at New London on Tuesday noon.
32. From Liberty by Rocky Mount to Mar
tinvilleonce in two weeks.
Leave Liberty every other Saturday at 6 A
m, and arrive at Martinville on Sunday by 6 P
m. Leave Mirtinville on Monday by 6 A M,
and arriveat Liberty on Tuesday by 6 pm.
33- From Prince Edward court house by
Charlotte court house to Halifax court house
once a week.
L«ave Pr ince Ed war- 1 court house every Thurs
day at 6 A M, and arrive at Halifax court house
on Friday at 10 AM. Returming—Leave Hal
ifax court house on Friday by 2 P M, and ar
rive at Prince Edward court house on Saturday
by 6 P M.
VIRGINIA andNORTH-CAROLINA.
From Halifax court-house by Halifax old town,
Carteis, Mjrtmnlle, Patrick court-house, Upper Sau
r#. G:rmantown and Bethania to Salem once in two
weeks.
Leave Halifix court-house every other Friday at
2, PM, and arrive at Salem the next Monday bv 6,
PM. Returning—LeaveSalem every other Tuesday
at 6, A M, and airive at Halilaxcourt-houfe on Fri- <
day by 10, A M.
35. Fiom Harris's by Hickes'sford to Halifax twice
a week.
Leave Harris's every Wednesday and Saturday by '
5, A M, and ai rive at Halifax by 6, P M. Return- '■
ing—leave Halifax every Thursday and Sunday by 6, t
A M, and arrive at Harris's by 7, P. M. J
VIRGINIA.
36. From Smithfield by Southampton court-house '
to Hicket's ford once a week. i
Leave HkksYfort e^cry^thr-f'HayV 2 ,P M,
and arrive at Smlthfield on toturday by 5, P
RcCuriiing—(.cavtSniitftf&d every other Sunday by
r 5, AM, anu arrive at Hiclu's tord on Monday by
0 2, PM.
37. FromGoldfonsbv G-efb-idge, St.
Meckfcfcherg and Lu-ieiTburg court-h:>ufes and Ed
munds flore to Goldfon's >nce a week.
t Lcav e Goldfon's every Wednefdav atiO, A ,M, and
return t'-enext Sa.urday bv 2, 1* M, waiting at each
j Poft-o?fice 2 hours after delivery ot the m<ii .
VIRGIX J A & NO !i TB-GAR.OL IN A.
38. From Edenron, Plymouth and Wa*
' (hington t-v Ncwbern, once a week Leave Suffolk
every Monday at noon, arrive at Edenton on Tuef
dav at i, P M, at P.ymouth, on Wednesday by 6,
A M, at by 6, P M, and at Xewbernon
Thurfdayby 5, P M. Return\n>g—Leave Newrbern
. every Friday by 6, A M, arrive at Wafhmgton by
" 5, PM. Arrive at Plymouth on Saturday by 4
P M, at Ed-nton on Survday by g, A M, andatSuf
n folk on Monday by g, A M.
k NOR TH-C AHQ LIN A.
3g. From Edenton by Heuford, Nixontou, Eliza
t b'.trt city, and to Indian-town, once a
y week.
Leave Edenton every WednefJay bv 1, P M, and
e arrive at In«Uan-town on Thu»fday by 6, P M. Re
turning—Leave Indiantownevcrv Tuesday by 5, A M,
; and arrive at.Edento" cm Wedncfday at 11, A M.
t 40. Irom Halifax by Northampton c< urt-houfe,
Prtnceton, Murfreeiborough, Wintou and V/indfor
to Edenton once a week.
Leave Halifax every Monday It q, AM, and arrive
at Edenton 00 Weanefday by 3, P M, leave Eden
ton on Wednesday by 6, P M, and arrive at Halifax
oh Saturday by 11, A M
1 From Hal fax by Scotland, Hogton, Williams
: tort and Daily's to Plymouth, once a week. Leave
Halifax every Monday at 10, A M, and arrive at Ply
mouth on Wednesday by 10, A M. Returning—
Leave P/yraouth on Wednesday at a, P M, and ar
• rive at Halifax on Friday at 10, A M.
42. From Halifax by Tatboro' and Greenville to
WaQiiogtononee a week
t Leave Halifax every Monday at jo, A M, add ar
rive at Waf\ington on Wednesday by to A M. Re
turning—Leave Washington every Wednesday at 2,
. P M, and arrive at Halifax on Friday at 10, A M«
43. From Halifax by Warrenton,William{borough,
Oxford, Hillfborough, Martinville, Salem, Lexing
ton, Salisbury and Statefville to Charlotte and from
' Charlotte by Cabarras court-house to Salisbury, and
* from thence by the fame route to Halifax, once a
week.
I Leave Halifax every Monday atg< AM, Ihrive at
Warrenron by 7, P M, arrive at Hillfborough on
, Wednesday at 4, PM, at Salem on Friday by 5,
; PM. at Salisbury on Saturday at 4, PM, and at
r Charlotte on Monday by 6, AM. Returning—leave
Charlotte on Monday at 10, A M, "arrive at Salisbury
on Tuesday by 10, AM, arrive at Salem k on Wed—
: nefdayatg, A M, at Hillfborough on Friday by g,
AM, at Warremonon Saturday at 7, PM, and at
Halifax «n Monday A M.
44. From Hillfboroiig'n by Mount Tirzah, Person
court-house, Leafburg, Cafweli court-house and Roc
kingham court-house to Germantowa once in two
weeks.
Leave Hillfborough every other Thursday at 6, A 2»
ar.d arrive at Germantown on Saturday at 4, P. M.
Leave Germantown every other Sunday at 6, A, M,
and. arrive at Hillfborough on Tuesday at 4, P M.
45. From Salem by Bethania, Huntfville, Roch
ford, Wilkes, Morganton and Ratherfordton to Spar
tanburg in S. C. once in two weeks.
Leave Salem every other Saturday at 5 A m, and ar
rive at Spartanburg on Wednesday at 5 pm. Leave
Spartanburg every other Thursday at 7 a m, and ar
rive at Salem the next Monday at 6 p m.
46. From Loutiburg by Nafh court-house to Tar
borough once a week.
Leave Tarboroug'n every Friday by 6 am, and ar
rive at Louifburg by 6.p m. Returning—-Xeave Louif
bnrg every Saturday by 6 a m, and arrive at Tarbo
rough by 6 r m.
Raleigh,by Smithfield, Waynefborough,
and Kingllon to >tewbern, once in two weeks.
Leave Raleigh every other Tueldaytby 8 a m, and
arrive at Newbern the next Friday by 10 a m.
Returning —Leave Newbern every other Friday by a
p m, and arrive at Raleigh on Monday by 6 p m.
48- From Raleigh by Chapel hill to Hillfborough,
and from Hillfbosough by Chapel hill and Chatham
court-house to Raleigh* once a week. To wait two
hours at Chatham court-house.
Leive Raleigh every Tuesday by 6 A m, and ar
rive at HiHfborough by 6 p M. Returning—Leave
Hillfborough every Wednesday by 8 a m, and arrive
at Raleigh on Thursday by 10 a m.
4g. From FayetteviJle by Elizabethtown, Beliefort
and£pringfield to Wilmington, and from Wilming
ton by S. Sareflo and Sampson court
house to Fayetteville, once a week. •
Leave Fayetteville every Tuesday at 6 am, and
arrive at Wilmington on Thursday at 10 a. m. Re
turning —Leave Wilmmgton every Thursday t 4 a m,
and arrive at Fayetteville on Sunday by 5 p m.
50. From Fayetteville by Alfordton and Randolph
court-house to Salisbury, and from Salisbury by Mont
gomery court-house, • Aofon coort-houle and Rich
mond court-house to Fayetteville, once a week.
Leave Fayetteville every Saturday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Salisbury on Tuesday by g a m, Leave Sa
lisbury «very TueJday noon and arrive at Fayetteville
on Friday by 6 p m.
51. From Newbern by Trenton and Richland to
Wilmington once a week.
Leave Newbern every Friday at 10 a m, and arrive
at Wilmington on Sunday by 6 p. m. Leave vVil
mington every Tuesday at 10 am, and arrive at New
bern on Thursday by 6 p m.
SOUTH & NORTH CAROLINA.
52. From Camden by Lancaster court-house, Char
lotte and Lincolnlon to StatefvHle, once in two
weeks.
Leave Camden every other Monday at 6 a m, ar
riveat Statefville on Thursday by 6 r M Leave Statef
villa every other Friday by 2 ? M, asd arrive at Cam
den on Monday by 6 p m.
SOUTH CAROLINA,
53. From Columbia by Winnfborough, .Cbeflcr
court-house, Pinckneyville, Spartan-burg and
Greenville court-house to Pickenfville, and
from Pickenfvill« by Lauren's court-house and New
bury tourt'houfe to Columbia, once a week : waiting
one hour at each poft-office on the route.
Leave Coluipbia every Monday at g a m, arrive at
Spartanburg every Wednesday by 3 p m, arrive at
Pickenfville on Thursday at 4 pm, arrive at Laurens
court-house on Friday at 4 r M, and at Columbia on
Sunday by 6 p m.
54. From Columbia by Orangeburg to Charleston,
once a week.
LeaveColumbiar every Monday at 10 a m. and ar
rive at Charleston on Thursday at 10 m. Returning
—Leave Charleston every 'I hurfcay at 2 p m, and ar
rive at Columbia on Sunday at neon;
, SOUTH-CAROL IN A & GEORGIA.
55. From Edgefield court-house by Cambridge,
Abbeville court-house, Pendleton Ha.-
tonsford, Franklin court-house, Eiberton and Peters
burg to Walhington, and from by Pe
tersburg and Cambridge to Edgefierd court-house,
once a week.
Leave Edgefield court-house every Friday byß a >r,
arrive at- Pendleton court-house on Sunday by g A
arrive at by 7 p m, at Petersburg
on Tuesday by 10 A m, and at Washington by 5 p
m. Leave Washington every Wednesday at 6 a m,
at Camb idge on Thursday by 10 a m, and at Edge
field court-house by 7 p m.
56 From Augufla by Washington, Greenfburg and
Lexington to Georgetown, once a wetk.
Leave Augusta every Monday at 3 p m, arrive at
Washington on Tuesday by 5 p m, and arrive at
Georgetown on Thurfdav by 7 p m. Returning—
Leave Georgetown every Friday at 6 a m, aud arrive
at Augusta bv noon on Monday.
57. From Gardens Corner to Beaufort once a week.
Leave Beaufort every Thursday at 2 p m, and arrive
at Gaidens Corner by 8 r m. Returning—Leave Gar.
dens Corner every Thursday at 5 a m, and arrive at
Beaufort by 10 a. m.
Note J. Tbe Pof Mafer General may alter tbe time* I
of arrival and departure at any time during, tbe continuanct
of tbe contrails y be previoufy f ipulating an adequate com- ,
penfation for any extra expense that may be occaftened there- ,
b-, I
Note 2. Half an busr Jball be alloived J or opening \
and cUfing the Mail at all offices where no. particular time
it fp:cifed. * 1
No:e For every hour's delay (unavoidable accidents
exceptedJ in arriving after the times preferred in any con
trsfi, the Contractor Jkall JorJeit one ddi&i, and if the de
' /ay continiKwrtil the departure df any defending Mai!,
ifhc/eby the Mails destined for fuck depending Mail, life
i a trip, an additional forjeiture of Jive dollars fiatl bt
• incurred^
'\>tr 4 Neivfpapers as well as Letters are to be sent
' in the Mails ; and if any person making proposals deftres
1 to carry neiofpapers o'ber than tbofe conveyed in the mail,
for bis otvn em dument y be mnft fate in bis proposals for
ivhat sum be tvill carry it icitb that emolument and for
tub at sum rv it bout that emolument.
frotc 5. Should any perfjn making proposals desire an
alteration of tbe times of arrival and departure above fpc
cifedy be mutt Qate in bis proposals tbe alterations desired,
at i tbe difference they ivill make in tbe terms of bit con
r trail.
Note 6. Persons making proposals are Jefred to fate
, their prices in gross by tbe ye<tr, and net by the mile.
Tbofe tvbo contra Si ruill receive their pay quarterly, in
tbe months of January, April, July and October, in
i drafts on tbe po/l offices on the route and in bank notes.
Note 'J Tbe eontraßs are to be in operation on tie frfl
day of April next > and continue for four years, until
the 31fl day of March inclufve y in the year 1802.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Pofi- Matter General.
General Post Office, ">
Philadelphia, December 18, 17971 J
_ tvthScsti4thF
House and Lots, - in Bordentown.
TO BE SOLD, a handsome two story House.
with the Lot on which it is ere&ed, fit unfed
about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
Village of Bordentown. The heufe is forty two
feet front, and in neat order. The lot contains
one acre, and is one hundred feet on the main
street, and extends with the fame breadth tobaak
ftrtet. Also, a large Lot, containing nearjy four
acres, feparatcd from-4he former by back street.
One third only of the pur chafe uianey will be re
quired upon executing a deed, and for the re
mainder, such credit will be given as the purchase
er may chufe. This property will be fold free •-
all incumbrances, and an indisputable title givesf
For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnes, residing in Bordentown, near,
the who will (hew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyanoer, n<i. 144, Market-street.
December a. sawtf
Princeton—New-Jerfey.
T» he Sold,
THAT neat and convenient House in which
the late Mrs. Ann Witherfpeoii, now Mn.
Ann Walker, lived ; together with all the appur
tenances. The house is two ftorifii high, of frame
work, and painted. There are are four roonvt
and an entry on th« lower floor, ajid five roams
on the second floor. The cellars are dry, and the
garret spacious-—The back yard is paved wilh
stones. Iq it are a well of excellent water, an
oven, a smoke house, and house for afhss—and
behind it a carriage house; hayloft, granary, and
convenient (tables, with four Halls for horses, and
four for neat cattle. The lot is 60 feet wide upon
the street, and 154 feet dscp, somewhat more than
one half of which is made iato a kitchen garden
of an excellent foit.
For terms, which will be made very
apply to the reverend
Samuel Smith.
January 19 jaw^w
Mitfical In/lrument Manufactory,
167, Arch-ilrect.
TO THE LOTERS OF HARMONY.
HARPER,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has
now ready for sale, a few of his new invented,
and much admired fide board Piano Fortes, with
Pedals,patent swell, fonopahant and French harp
flop, which for sensibility of touch, brilliancy of
tone, iimplicity and durability of conftru&ion, the
fnperiority of himfelf, a single tri
al will convince the unprejudiced judge—\s they
are manufadured under his immediate iafpe&ion,
of the very feafoned materials, he can fell 011
reasonable terms for Casii. Inftrunrants repaired,
tuned, &c.
N. B. Second hand Piano Fortes taken in ex
change for newi
november 18. s&aw2mo.
A Gardener wanted.
A person well acquainted with gardening, and
who would occaGonally attend mirket, may
hear of a place by applyiHg at the n mile stone,
on the Bristol rsad, or No. 109, Arch-street,
Philadelphia. A single man would bepreferecic
Jan. 10. 2»wtf
For Sale,
The time of a young Mulatto Girl, about
twelve years eld, has about eleven years to serve.
She is very capable of taking eare t>f a ohild,
and understands house work. Enquire at No.
97, North sth street.
Jan. 42. *eodiw
Imported inthefhipMANCHESTER,
Benjamin Shewell, Master,
From Bourdeaux, and for sale by the subscriber,
No. li Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy ~i
Irish market elaret in cases I Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. T Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. _)
Thomas Murgatreyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE."
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter caflcs
Rota do. # do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bufbels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. , tut&stf.
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, proposing to contract his bufi
nefa, offers this Estate for sale, on moderate
terms. On it arc one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of stones; also a good Forge, all
in perfe£l repair, as are all the Water Works connett
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built for the parpofe of cafling Cannon
for this State. —There are abou< two nioufand acres .
of Land, one half of which is under wood, tbe other
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Pasture. The Cannon lately mannfadlured there,
tally proves the excellency of the metal, which ir
luperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one of sixty-nine g«ns I
lately nude, although some of the 24 were bored 1
into 32 pounders, have fail*d 00 proving. The fttu- t
ation is very eligible, particularly for this hranch of a
manufacture, and a place of arms lying in the state
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from severa l land* *
ings on the Hudfoo's river, aod having every advan
tage that can rafult from a plenty of water issuing
from a Iprge natural pond, very near (he Furnace,
and which may be converted uito a variety of other 1
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all the stock and utensils, and have p«fleffiun
on or before the full of June next, and preparaiou *
may be made in the mean time for going into Blast im- c
mediately thereafter, for every pait wtll be delivered 1
in good order, with some coal, Ore, 4cc. See. For
term*, ap>ply to Mr. jofeph Anthony, in Philadel- I
phia; fiavidßrooks, EGq. one of the Representatives
mi Congress for this State ; Mr, D svid Waterman, on F
tbe prcitMjcvs, or to the proprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON. a
Dee. 1. 9 gawtf
! Boston Glass Manufactory.
citizens of the Uniled States ire hereby
!, X' informed, that the nunufa&ttre of Window
r c Glass is now commenced at the Glass House in Bos
s ton.
It is needlefi to fay any thing of the excellent
i quality of the Boston Glaft, as it is so well known
s throughout the United States to be in every refpedt
\ greatly fuperioi to any eter imported from Europe.
r It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
r may heconflantly had by applying to Charles F,
Kupjt.r, at, the Glass House.
Orders from the distant States to be to
- Mr. Samuel Gore, Court-street, Boftog.
r > £s* * wo or three good Glafi makers are want
- ed at the above works"; foch as can produce re
commendations for jood behavior, may be sure of
e employ, by application to Mr. George L. Lindt,
. at the works. Men without families will be pre
-7 ferred. However unacquainted with the method
r of makicjr Grown Window Glass, they will meet
with the fame encouragement.
? Boston, Jan. 16. 25 —aaw6w
To Cabinet Makers, Joiners, &c,
Cavanagh & Hearn,
Pine-street, near the New-Market,
RETURN thanks to th»ir friends and the
public, for their liberal encouragement,
and hope, by their unremitting attentien, to
merit a continuance of their favors. The Part
ncrfhip between theni and Joseph B. Barry, ha«
bewi diflblved by mutual consent. Cavanagh
and Hearn Jiavcjuft receiveil a quantity of St.
Doonngo and Honduras Mahcgony, which they 1
intend to fell on very reasonable terross for cadi.
Orders from the country most punfluawy exe
cuted. Vineers of all kinds cu( as iifual.
Jan. 15. 2au'4w
ALL persons indebted to the cftate of Peter
Gill, late of the Diftrilt of Soi «hwark, de
cealed, are requeued to make immediate pay
ment to either -of the Subscribers; and those
who have any demands againlt laid estate, are
requested to bring in their accounts duly attest
ed to.
JOHN MURPHY,
PETER SCRAVENDYKE. f hxccu -
THOMASFARRELL, ) tor! -
Phil.td. fan. 16. 17Q8. *23\<.-4 w
JuJl received a trejh Supply.
English Grammar,
The fecund edition, with improvements,
ADAPTED to the different clafTes of learners;
with an appendix, containing rules and ob
fervationi for assisting the more advanced (ludent6
to wiite with perfpicui<y and accuracy,
Br LINDLEY MURRAY.
" This is a publication of much merit, ajid fully
answers the profeffions in the Title. The appwi
dix contains iomc of the best rules for writing e
legantly, and with propriety, that we recoiled t»
have fcen."
Mqnthly \Review, July 1796.
" This Grammar is, op many accounts entitled
to commendatory notice, its materials have been
carefully and jjidicioufly fele&ed ; its arrangement
is lifting and well adapted to the purpose of in
ftru&ion and its expression is (imple, perspicuous
and accurate, &c t " j
See the char after at large in the Analytical
Review, July 1796
English Exercises,
Adapted to the Grammar lately pubVilhed by
Lindley Murray, confiftipg of exemplification of
the parts of speech, indancsof falf-s orthography,
violations of the rules of fynrax, defects in punc
tuation, and violations of the rules refpe<aing
perspicuity and accuracy,. designed f»r the benefit
of private learners, as well as for theufe of fchooh.
•" W<s have been much pleased with the peiufal
of these Exercises. They occupy with diltinguifli
ed excellence a most important place in the-fcicncc
of the Engliflt language; and as such, we can
warmly racommend them to the Teachers of
Schools, as well as to all those who arc desirous of
attaining correftnefs and predion in their native
tongue."
Monthly Review, Jnly 1797.
The above Books are forfale at Jossra & James
Crukshanks book (lore, No. 87, Market ftrect.
Januacy xi. 3W^aw.
This Day Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, cornet of
Second and Chefnut streets,
Price i-%ths of a Dollar,
Observations tin certain Documents
Contained ia No. V and VI of
" The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the charge of speculation against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secketart of the Treasury, is FULLY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN Br BIUS EI F.
This publication prcfents a ooncife statement
of the base means pradtifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to rfperfe the char-afters of those
persons who are considered as hollile to their disor
ganizing schemes. It also contaios the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and Messrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venable, on the fub
je& of the documents alorefaid, and a scries of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt,
that the connexion between him and ReynoJds,
was the result of a daring confpiraey on the part
of the latter and his affociatesto extort money.
£5" a discount of one third from the retail price,
will be made in favor of wholofaie purchasers, for
cash. Orders to be addrefled to Mr Young.
Avgufl 25.
FOR SALE,
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front streets,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Alfa, a general assortment of Tools,
Eiles and Materials, coflflfling of Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hour bra A pinion*
and forge work ; Bells, clock and watch Dials,
Springs, Hands, Glasses, Pumice Store, Etmrvj
Rotten Stone, Cat Gut; bench, (land and tail
Vices; Turns, Pliers, Chains, Seals, Keys, &c. &c.
* # * Apprentices Wanted.
novembcr 3. . ff tuts
The History of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
Is now in the prefii, and will be published"
with all convenient expedition, by Zicha*
RIAH Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, aqd at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed proposals, until the
work is ready for the fubferiben.
J"'y 1 «•_ aawtf
This day is Published, ~
At the office of the Aurora, No. it:, Market Street
I Price one dollar and a half,]
A view of theconduft of the EXECUTIVE in tke
FOREIGN AFF AIRS of the United Statts, cdnWfl
ed with the M-.flion to the French Republic during
the years, 4794. j, 6,
By JAMES MONROE,
Late Minister Fler.spo entiarv to the ta.d Republic
Illustrated by hit INSTRUCTIONS and COrI
RESPONDCN'CE and other authentic documents^
A very liberal allowance to those who boy to ( c {j
again.
December aj.