and Philadelphia fiaily Advertiser:
Number 1865.J
* # # The price vf this Gazette is eight
Dollars a year.—Subscribers who reftde at
a diflance from the place ojpublication, and
uhsfe papers are sent per psj}, pay fix
n - ntls s fubfcrtptipn in advance, and one
dollar annually for encloftng and direEling
th *■**■" Ths payments tp be always
fx ninths in advance. t
For Sale. t
THE Susscsiuer, intending to decline the 1
D'iUCi BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the r
whole Stock of
Drugs and Med'.cines, Instruments, &C. j
Th.- P.inp is elegant, commodious, aad fulfici
sntly know n for the extensive bitfinefs <:oneinthe '
wholcifale and retail line ; the situation sijual to j
#ny in the city, being at the c.ji nor ol Walnut and '
Second streets. 'l'he whole, or any part of the
Stock, will ha fold, as will belt suit the purchaser. i
Tlii terms may be known, by applying to y
JAMES MOORE, jun. i
Win has For Sale, „■ <
cilculated for the river trade—
The Peggy, about 3otonsburthen, '
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably f
stout, of an easy draught of water, rigging in a
good order. 1
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails I
well, and in cosiplete order for the lumber business. 1
All persons indebted to the late firm of i«
Goldtfjzvait Iff Baldwin, IV. B Goldibivait, Gold
tbwait & Moore, or the fubferi T, are earneltly
rcquefted to make fpcedy to h
MOORE, jun. o
3. §
- - j-
Ship y Insurance Broker, v
THE Suhfcriber, encouraged by the advice C
of his friends, offers his lervice to the pub- c
lie as a Ship and Insurance Broker. H» pro- v
poses to by and fell veflcls and every thing re
-1 a ting thereto —aflilt inafters of vefTels and others I
in entering and clearing at the Culiom House,
procuring and (hipping freight, fettling Insur
ance and all other mercantile accounts, and have
on hand the neceflary Blanks and Stamps.
Papers in oreign languages translated, and
informition giv_-n in general mercantile matters
—From a knowledge gained by long experience
of every branch of business he hopes to be ufe
ful to tliofe who please to favor him with thair /
commands. SAMUEL EMEKT.
Philadelphia, august 14th, 1798.
" for sale,
For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub- f
fcribers, on Walnut street Wharf, j
195 casks of nails assorted
ao bales of fail canvass, from No. I to 8 t
5 3 casks yeltaw ochre a
1 5 tierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 doz. each
London eirticular ) Madeira Wines
India market } (_
TcncrifFe do. in hosfhcadsaTid pip
Old Port do. in hhds.
Empty Claret bottles
6 Cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Muflinets &c.
assorted for the Weft-India market
4, 10, and 9 inch cablesand to coifs of cordage
Writing Ihtes, ink (lands and presses
20 purcheons Jamaica rum t
I bale seaming twine ]
160 bundles fh'eathing paper
Nicklin & Griffith.
April 7 tuth£fitf_
STAMPS.
W. GRIFFITHS,
BOOKSELLER fcf STATIONER,
BEGS leave to inform such persons in the fouth
ernpartof tbe city (who may find it incon
venient to go farther up for their fiamps) that at
his Store, No. 177, South Second, near Kprucc
street, he has a-gei,erallupply for distribution.
He has jullr ccived from London, by the way
of New York, an elegant assortment of Morocco
Articles, viz. travelling, drefiing, writing and
dressing Cases, with lnllruments very complete ;
Pocket Books; Etwees; Thread Cases, Purses,
&c in the greatefi variety and bell manufaiSture.
Lilrw ft on bard— Charts of every part of the
American Coast, Prints framed and glazed, Draw
ins; Books and Portable Defe, which, with his
ufuaiftock, W. G. hopes will not be unworthy
attention ofladios or gentlemen who make ule
of fu zh goods.
number of small Dutch RIFLES,
july 30 aaw3w_
Madeira Wine.
A few pip" of remarkably fine MADEIRA WINE
fit for immediate use, and at a rfducm price-To'
sale by
]UIV 20.
Kj*. Should a gentleman, a na
•tive of Teneriffe, who ha.i been known in America by
the name of Lewi, Martin Cevel at one time, and at
another by that of Lewi. Cevel Peilder, be alive, and
will apply to Janes Bar.y, of Baltimore, he w,U
■hear of something highly to his interell. Or (hoo d
he be deceaied, any person who wid addrelj icerli
licate of his deat 1 , properly ainbenlicated, will be re
warded with twenty dollars, by applying as above.
Mr- Pel lifer is tuppoled to be loine where in the lute
of Mairacnufetts. i
angu(k >. \
Baikenridge—for sale ~
TT confills of 920 acres, almost all of winch is
i a fine rich Meadow, (the refidente of the late
■IWrl of Stirling). It may beconveoiently dixided
-iato live urms, four of which are bounded on the
fiafi by the river fafaick.
Til., re are on it a number of buildings, forming ,
-a'foUire ol nearly three aeres—The dwelling house |
; vjry convi-nientone andjafmallexpence would
out it in camplete repair.
The orchard confiflsof 1500 fimbeanng engral
cd Aople Trees —and there is on other parts olfaid
tract net* 300 other Apple rrees-as also a great
variety of other frtfits,particularly Cherries of the
belt and most delicious kinds. .
Also a great number of beautiful Exotics and
KoreflTreos, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its situation is about lb miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth t .0 do
from Morris-Town, and 11 Irom Springfield—lt
k wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
incuih, ondelivery oi the decih. <n-
T. McEuEN & Co.
u '"~ yii>. 78, Chefnut treet.
ebruary 2. eod,f
PHILADELPHIA:
ANOTHER STRONG PROOF
OF the great and unpa'a/leled efficv of
Dr. CHURCH'S CO\JGH DROPS,
In the Cute of i
Coughs, Colds, Asthmas & Consumptions. i
1
New-Tori, July jo, >79B* t
To )'r "dunca i
Sir, , .
PWf tinvitfli ot'Twelve Years, I h-ivcjh
bnred under a ferere Cough, Ihortnefs of breath
spitting of matter from my lungs an<d often of
clotted nlood, till at length I was I'o reduced as
to be unable to walk acrol'i my room, and ow
ing to the vis lence of my and the short
ness of breath cauld get no reft day or night.—
Hearing of your excellent medicine, ( ihe Cough
Drops, I procured a bottle ; I took a dose as
soon as F got it, from which I found instantane
ous relief, and by continuing it for three days,
I bless God iam reflorcd to perfefl health. As
I believe you to have been the inflrument in the 1
hands of Providence, of laving my life, I mutt t
intreat you to publith this for the benefit of any
who may be in my fituatioo, as lam confident ,
it is one of the bell medicines in the world for
those complaints.
I am, Sir, your grateful seri'tmt,
' NICHOL AS STAGG,
Little Robinson-street.
CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS,
Are prepared and fold by thelnventor and fn!e J
proprietor, Dr CHURCH, at his Dispensary,
W'afhiiigion-ftreet, New-York, and at his of- *■
lice, No 1, South Third-street, Philadelphia) '
and fold by appointment at Mr Weedman's 112 '
William-Hreet, and Stilwe'l & Deforeft, 168 '
Pearl-ftreer, New-York. Mancios, Albany,
Price, Baltimore, Thomas, AleaaiiJria, VVil
fliß, Wilmington, &c. &c.
OBSERVE,
As a counterfeit preparation of this medicine t
ha# been induftriOßfly *iirat!gh some f
of the principal cities in the United States, per
fonji are requefied to purchase ihem of such per
foti? only as have Dr Church's appointment for \
vending the fame. Powers,: Poughkeepfie— t
Chappel, Head of Elk—Bon<[ and Co. New- t
caftie-«-Heinitfh, Lancafter —Slauvelt, Brunf- '
wick (N.J.) Gordon, Trenttn, &c.
*„"* Patients letters (Poft.piid) addrcfied to
Dr Church, New York, dulyjttended to. '
augnfl 0.0 jawjw
This Day Pubafhed,
And for file at, the Office of ;he Editor, No.
1/9 Chefmit-ftreet,
(Price \-ith of a D-J'ar,)
AN ORATION,
Pronounced July 4,1798,
At therequeftof the Inhabitant! of the Town of c
BOSTON\ in cotnmera ration of the anni
versary of American Independence.
By Josiah Qurncr.
" The inroads upon our public liberty, call
for reparation —The wrongs we havefultained,
call for—Justice. That Reparation and that
Justice, may yet be obtained, by Union, Spirit, .
and Firmness. But to di'vuie. and conquer was t
the maxi m Oevil in the p->r<u» a
(O disunite and enslave hath been the princi- 1
pie of all his votaries from that period to the
present." . 1
Observations on the Kostoi Port-Bill, &c.p. 78 '
by the late. J. putney, jun. ' (
atiguft 11
And immediate possession given ;
A Large convenient, well finifhed house, No
aij Higli-flreet, htely occupied by Doc
«or Wiftar, with Coach house and Stables
Enquire of WILLIAM SHEAFF, j
No 168, High-Jlreet.
jufy 31 . ' ' . :§_
"FOR SALE, by
John Miller, Jun.
NO. 8, CHESNUT STREET,
100 hogftieads RUM,
Of Tiieh proof and fine flavour
july 19 §
Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries,
of the newest andmoft approvedpatterns,entitled
to the drawback, ju(l received,
AN B FOR SALE BY
Alex. J. Miller Iff Co.
No. 64, South Front street.
may 18. ?l
OX BEEF.
100 Barrels ) of B ef of best quality, put
50 half Barrels } up wit)h carefor long voyages,
ico Barrels of Connecticut Pork.
50 Barrels of Conneflicut Tongues.
WINES.
35 Pipes of Madeira Wine
30 Pipes of Port
30 half calks of Sherry
30 Casks of Lilbon
300 Cases of Trench Claret, of excellent
quality.
800 Barrels of Scraped FLOUR,
too Barrels of Condemned, and
20 Boxes of best Durham Milliard.
For Sale by
John Skyrin,
Lanjenberger's Wharf.
m ay 4 eodtf
Just Received and for sale by
WILLIAM rOUNG,
Corner of Second and Chefnut Street—and at the
Olßce of the Ed tor,price } i6ths. of adollar,
! AN ORATION,
I Spoken at Hartford, on the Anniversary of I . de
pendence, July 4, 179^'
By THEODORE DWIGHT.
: For Sale,
1 THE time of an jn.dpnt«d NEGRO MAN,
Who is exceWnt "Cook, has about, eight
" years to serve. A L S O.
1 The time of an Indented hegro Bey,
' Who is a good House Servsnt, and has about
L ' nine years, to fe'rve, they are both perfe<stlv hon-
eft and.sober l'or terms apply to No. 166
South Front-street.
s augufl 7 4awtf
'• To be Let,
Aii airy three Story Brick House,
e the bouth fide of Gilbert Street, betwe-n
Eighth, and Ninth flrcet fotmerly otcupind.
as the Surveyor Othee'—Enquire at No.
111, Chefnut Street,
auguit 10 t0 j*
By John Fen no, N° 119 Chefnut Street.
MONDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 3, 1798.
Notice is hereby given,
THAT application will be m.ide to the Treasu
ry of the Uni'.-d States, for l' e fen-wal of t!ie
foHpwing Ci:rtiScifiS of Six t'ey Cert Funded I
Stock, flandingit: the naif, of * J -b■; Carbonrfl, of ' ;
I.ondon, the laid Certificates having I em loft on | ,
hr.ard the fiwillow Packet, Captain Kidd. from i i
Falmouth to New-York
iVo. 3072 I Cert, for 2doo dolls. ~j
2964 I do. 5000 > 1
10,577 1 do 3000 J
Willings £3° Francis.
Philadelphia, august 30, eo6vv
Twenty Dollars Reward, ,
LOST between Germantown and (he middle (
Ferry, on the 19th inllant, a Small Red 3
Morocco Pocket Book, containing Bmk Notes r
to the amount of one hundred and fifty Dollars 3
and upward—several other papers that can be of j
nn use to any other person but the owner. i
Whosoever has found said Pocket Book and re
turns it to hnfign George W. Stall at the Camp
near Schuylkill shall receive the above reward,
and no qoeftions asked.
nugiifl 33 6t
City Commissioners' Office,
August 30, 1795.
IN purfttjnee of an ordinance of the 3ele<ft and
Common Councils, passed Ihe 22d day of May, 1
1798,
Propofale in writing will be received by the City c
Comrx.iflioßers for one month from the firft of Sep a
tembcr next, for lerting to rent oh leases for one
year, to commence the firft day of Januajy next, T
the following public, property of the city—
The wharf and landing on Viae street,
Also on SaiTafras,
Mulberry,
And High streets.
Chefnut an 1 \V\ lnut streets, Drawbridge, with
the Scale and Fish houses, Pin« and Cedar
flree's- t
The Cellar under the City Hall.
Ihe Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto (except so much
thereof as shall be occupied by any buildings erec-
ted for the use of the Colle&or of the Tolls, or be
necelTary for the toll gates.) a
A stated meeting ol the City Commissioners will r
be held at the City Hall every Tuesday morning t t
ten o'clo k, dnrinf; the present epidemic eoim r
Arrived in the Jhip Pennsylvania, Capt. Wi l
liamson, from Hamburgh, now lying at x
Chejlcr. T
A Number of GERMAN SERVANTS, men, j
l\ women, boys and girls, amongst whom are v
Gunsmiths, Carpenters, Turners, Taylors, Black- a
smiths, Gardeners, Masons, Coachmen, Huntsmen,
&c. &c. whose time of fervituce is to be disposed
of on board the Ship, by
GURNETS SMITH.
august 28.
W. Young,
BOOKSELLER iff STATIONER,
INFORMS his friends and wholesale customers
in the country, who find it difagreaable to en
ter tbe city during the present Fever, That orders J
will be c*—-_.j -».*)> 11 11
patch, at the
WHITE-HALL PRINTING OFFICE,
in ths white building, above the Mile Stone, on j
the Ridge-Road. a
' His cuiloners in the c*;j ara lifo infr«rmed -
that the Store in the City will be open, every day, A
Sunday excepted, from Nine until One of the clock. s
august 29. diw
James C. iff Saml. W. Fijher,
No; 13 Arch-Street,
Have Jor Sale
aoo Casks best refined Salt Petre
Best London Window Glass from 10 by 8 to
12 by 10
Ditto GlafsAVare in Casks assorted confiding
of pint and half-pint Tumblers, Wine
GlafTes, Gobbets, &c.
ALSO,
A few Bales of Red, White and Yellow Flan
nels, Baizes and Kendall Cottons.
June 27 jawtf
CAUTION.
WHEREAS a certain perfonfwindled
from me on the firft inft. by giving
me inlieuthereof a forged check on the Bank
of North America, anote of that date, di awn
in my favour by Mr. John Travis; and pay
able in fix months, for three thdufand four
hundred and fifty seven dollars and forty-fix
cents. ALL persons are desired not to re
ceive any transfer of it, as it wiil not be
paid by either the drawer or endorser unlcfs
recovered by law.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Race Street.
august 6.
'l'he Public are hereby informed,
THAT I did not mean to authorise Col. Will
iam Nichols to declare, that I would noc pay,
unless recovered by law, my note alluded to in his
caution of the 6th of August, published in the Ga
zette of the Umted States of la& evening. 1 sin
cerely lament his lo's, and t«]d him I would tso
all I could do confidently with my credit to serve
him, but went no further.
JOHN TRAVIS.
august 7 §
FOR SALE,
The Cargo of the Schr. Sincerity
Benjamin Monteith Master, from Laguira,
CONSIST 1 NG OF
94 ? Fenegas of Cocoa
4000 lb- of Flora Indigo
210 Bales of Cotton
4 Packages of Goat Skins
By IVillings & Francis.
No. Eleventh-iheet.
July 2: dtf
Weft-Indian from Madeira.
Th»fe Gentlecnea who have Wines
pn board the Weft-Indian are informed the is |
now discharging at Sontb-flreet Wharf, :re to- |
' licited to haffen down their permits, the Veflel
* being immediately wanted, Peter Blight.
Who wants to Purchase,
100 Barrels of g:od Prime or Mess Beef
100 ditto Pork
7 or 800 ditto fine Flour
4 or 5000 bulhels Indian Com.
L A N I> I N G
From the West Indian,
j A choice parcel of Phelp's old particular
Wine in Pipes fit for Immediate use,
auguit 15 siot
Lest Yesterday,
BKTWKEN the War O.Hice and GeorgeS ray
ley's Tavern in Market ilrcct, or between his
hcufe and the upper Ferry Schuylkill, A B VNX 1
BILL 'OP OSt HUNDRED DOLLARS, rolled I
up in a small piece 01 .pex, W'hutvcr has found <
it, and avjTi leave wvth Mr. Stray Icy, ft.,11 re- •
ct vc tfn&-; : iar«
N, B. niQfuy' to a >
who ?s greatly difcrclfrcl by the Ifcfs. 1
1
CAU TI ON. ]
VrTHOlEASßichard Spclman, of Lunenburg
V V in Albanv County, in the State of New
Yorlc, rbraintd from me oo;or about the l6th of (
Oifober (aft, two bonds or Bota for loco dollars c
aach, and one Tor loeo dojlars) lor which I have t
reeerved no eonfide.-ation whatever, ajid which I t
am determined not to par. f therefore think it I
proper to forwarn a'l person* from taking an as- f
fignment or alignments of any or either us them. (
PHILIP AHNDT. a
New-Ealton, (Penn.) Aug. 15, 'yg. )
S(, P'- 1 Jt t
Removal to Germantown, j j
From 136, Mariet-Strert.
g? Richard Bayley & Co. for a
the accommodation ef theit friends dpring the pr«-
vailing sickness in the City, have opened a ll.ira
oppsfite to Doflor Martins, where they wi'd find
an extensive assortment «f Chistzes, Mufiins, la- -
ble lviren, and every other aracle in the Linendra
pery a v d Haberdashery Hue.
anpift ;9. diot
The Office of the Committee, i
L
Appointed to superintend the building of the
Frigate to be leaned to the United State#, is remoS •
ved to No. 112 Spruce flreet—- of which those gen
tlemen who h*ro cot already Wmc forward with
their fubferiptions wiU please to t ike notice.
ROBERT RITCHIE, Scc'ry.
august 7 $ .
ADVERTISEMENT; !
WHEREAS James Cumming to" Co. late of S
the city of Philadelphia, merchants, have 0
affigtied over all their effefls, real, perforal and h
mixed, to the lubfcribers, for tl* benefit of all
their creditors, who fl all fubferibe the said afligr- j
ment within fix months from the date hereof. c
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, to all persons
who are indebted to the said estate, that they are f
required to make immediate payment of their res- e
pedive accounts, to the Assignees, at their office,
No. 6i, Dock street, in failure whereof actions
will be inflituted for the Recovery of such debts as <
are not discharged accordingly.
John Travis, "J
John Waddington, I Affi
Jumes Taylor, I r
Cornelius Comegys J
august 18 mwfciD
Pennsylvania Population Company. c
NOTICE is hereby given to the [
Stockholders, that an assessment of Sk
Dollars i* on each payable, one halt
«fl 30, and the remainder in 60 from the 3d
inft. which they are rc<juenca to pay to the F*xa
furer of the company, at the Company's Office, r
No. 53 North Fourth street, agreeably to the times
above mentioned. The Proprietors will please to f
recoiled the r.cceflity, of being pgH&ua] t oth>f a
wife the forfeiture of their Will be incurred, f
agreeably to the conftkution.
By Order of the Board.
SOL. MAR a CHE, Sec'ry.
august 7 tuthsim r
FOR sale;
AF RM on the road leading to Stste Island, '
within four and an half miles of Philadelphia, t
containing 45 acres in the highest state of cultivation j
—25 acres of which is meadow, the remainder up- j
land. There areon the prcmifcs,a new frame House <
and Barn, with an excrllcnt kilchen garden, contain- j ,
ing a great number of frit Frees.—lmmediate poff»f- ; |
fion will be given.
For terms apply to
Thomas IV. Francis,
tyo. 98 South Third ftreeti
july 18.
Epidemic and Pestilential Diseases.
A DISSERTATION ON THE SOURCES THEREOF,
IN which it is attempted to prove from a nume
rous induction »f fails, that they never arise
from contagion, but a e always produced by cer
tain states and viciflitudesnf the atrtiofphere.
By CHARLES M'LE4M, Calcutta.
This valuable work, together with a view of
the Science of Life, —and a on the a&ion
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its application
for the cure of diieafes ol irwiire& debility
Neatly printed on line wove paper, and bound in
boards, are now to be had at
W. YOUNG's Book Store 9
The corner of Second and Chefnut streets,
(Pries One Doi'jr.)
august 14 eo7l
Bengal Goods,
CONSISTING OF
BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS,
Chintz ColTas I Maharazgungy
Chintz Guzzinas | Tookereys
Eliabad Baftas I Wrought Muslins
Long Drawers
Coarse Sugars in bags, fit for the European market 1 -
ALSO,
Carolina Indigo
Coffee in hogsheads
A few pipes of very old and very choice Madeira
WINE
For Sale, on reasonable terms, by
John Craig,
No. 12, Dock-ltreet.
July 14 mwstf
Dodor GOURDES,
No. 28, Pine-Street ;
Late SURGEON in the armies ol St. Domingo,
OFFERS his services to the inhabitants of Phi
ladelphia in the line of hs proteflion. He
flatters himfelf that hi* laity* fuccefsful experience
in the Weft-India fevers, will procure Kim .he con
fidence of th«s cr 9J(; thi» city ; particularly
thole attacked by the present Epidemic,
august 2s. eod^t
gr The Subscribers have remov
i ed for the present from Penn-ftreet to Eleventh
flreet, between t"/!li*rt and '
Wtllntgs iff Francit.
aag«ft 9 f»w
0- Wanted■ —A situation in a Pub
lic or Merchants Offic?, or to go is Superc»rgo,
by » peifoil regularly brought up to the Mer
cantile and Insurance bufinels in London, he has
lately been a vovaee horn henrr to the Weft-ln
r dies as Supercargo, cjn It we'l recommended,
Please to enquirj at the Printer's,
august 11
COLLECTOR'S office,
. Philadelphia , August 30, 1798
THE 1)oCrc1« of the Cuttom House will from
tais diy be tranfa&ed at CheiVer, duriug the con
tinuance ot th» lever which now prevail in thi9
city ; and in canfequ*nce thereof the nvi chants
are hereby notified, !h<«t payment of all bonds tor
duties to the United St tn payable at tlmoffice,
may fee made either at the Cuttont Hauls in Ches
ter, 01 ut,tl|£ Bank of the United State*.
Collector's Office, )
Philadelphia, Aug. 50. J
Rl m oval '
THE Office of the Secretary of the Comniifiion*
ers for carrying into effrd the twenty firit Article
of the Treaty of Fritjndflnp, Limits and Naviga
tion, between Hi s Catholic Majesty and the Unit
ed States ol America, is for the prefect removed
Irom No 54, South Sccsbil rtreet, to a large two
flory brick houie on the righ: hand going up the
G>: manrown road, juil above the Globe Mill, ulu
ally called Maftcrs's houl., being a very a iyaud
healthy si tu&tion ; to w:.ith perfoii* having claim*
to exhibit, or enquiries t© make, may come or
fend wifa the gfeattft fafcty. J.ctter«, poii paid,
Bills and Notts,. to be noted or proretlcd, and di
rc3ior.& nfpcdling any kind cf Notarial buGnefs,
icclofed and left at the Post Office, will be dniv
attended to, by
PETER LOHRA.
Philadelphia, august 30 § lv v
Fifty Dollars reward.
ED from tit. » arinc Barracks, cor
ner o{ Filbert and I hirrccr.th Greets,
Kef AUtbnv, torn n Iri and, by trade a baker,
37 years oi
"lack hair, and ■ avk complexion, a imail lcar 00
his left inilep.
William O Brial, born in Ireland,-by trade a"
barber, 40 yep.: s,.{ age, * Iter 3 -a in> hes high,
grey eyes, blown haii- and light complexion.
John b/rter, born in Saratoga, it ate of New-
York, farmer, az years <f aye. 5 Let 7j inches
h 'gh, grey eyts, light browu hair, fair ccmolex
ion.
Thomas Smith, born in Walpark, Sussex county,
State of New Jersey by trade a mason, ij years
hair, fair com; lexion.
John Bcgley, born in Ireland, 16 years of age,
5 feet 8 inch shigh, grey eye o , Tandy hair, brown
complexion. '
Whoever will take up the aforefaid deserter",
(hall receive the above reward, or Ten Dollars for
each, and all reasonable ex' ences.
ANTHONY GALE,
Licuterunt of Marines.
au g u 3 { . T - i v
notice.
Bank of North America,
Augujl 2sth, 1798.
' pHOSE Persons who h-vc xsotcsoi Bills to pay
JL at this Bank are informed,
That regular Notices will be put under a sealed
cover directed to thefefpeilive payer and lodged
in the Poll-Office every Monday until the return
of the citizens.
RICHARD WELLS, Cajhitr.
»"g- 89 dtf
TO BE SOLD,
THE time of an indented Dutch Servant BOY,
who has ten years to serve. He has had the
small pox and mcaflcs, is nearty and flron K ,
and fit for house work in town or country. For
further information, enquire of the printer,
august 4 j
Patent Ploughs,
TO be fold for cash by Joseph Salter at Atfion
Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry—Jonathan
Barker, Woodbury—and JefTe Evans, Lumber
ton, Those who have used them give them the
preference to any other kind, as they require
less team, breilt the ground better are kept in
oirder at less expence and are fold at 3 cheaper
rale—the plan is much limnlified and confilts of
but one piece of cast iron, with the handles ind
beam of wood ; they may befixed with wrought
lays and coulters to be put on with screws and
taken off at pleasure
Patent tights for vending with inftruflions for
making them may be had by applying to John
Newbold, or the fubferiher No. jiz North
Fi»nt-ftreet.
Who has for Sale;
Or to Lease for a tinU of Tears,
A number ol valuable traJU of Land, well
situated for Mills, Iron <Varks or Farms, most.
ly improved, lying chilly in the county of Hun
tingdon Hat* of Pennsylvania. Those who may
incline to view them will plcafe to apply to
John Canan esq. near Huntingdon.
Claries Newlold.
j"'y '7 aawtf
To be Sold, at private Sale,
A Plantation and Ti atl of Land
CONTAINING 145 acres, fituatein White
marHi township, in thecounty of
try, about 15 miles from Philadelphia, and on
the public road leading from Plymouth by the
Broad-Ax tavern toward Horfliam, and about
one quarter of a mile from said tavern r alfc
about the fame difiance from the Skippgck road
and about the fime di'iance from the late rtfi
dence of James Morris esq. deceased. It is
bounded by lands of Anthony Morris esq. Ja.
cob Reiff and Detweiler. About ten tfcies arc
good watered meadow, about 15 or 10 are un
der cfcver, and about 3.5 acres are well timbered.
The buildinga on the above farm consist of a
fwo-ftory Hone dwelling-house, a large ftonp
barn and stone spring-house. There is also ci
the premises a young orchard of about 150 ap
ple trees.
This farm has great advantages of water, ai
there is an excellent never-failjng (treara palling
by the house and barn, in luch a manner as
supply the fame is well as every field with a fu.
ficienr. qaantity.
The i'pring over which the fpring'hoiife ij
buiit, is excellent watery ami is also very ntar
: and convenient to the dwelling houl'e.
The situation of this place is healthy and in a
good neighborhood, and is near to several dir.
ferent places of worlhip, and within the dif
tance of half a rn:le from two grift and f.iw
mills, :lfo ne:r lime-kilni.
This farm will be fokl together or divided in.
, to two parts, as may suit the purchjfers. Alio
a two-story stone house with a barn
house and lot of land situate on Chefnut-hill. I
, is a very high and healthy lituatlori, and roni
• mands a very extertfivc and beiurlful
, PofTeffion of part of the house may be luel im«
. mediately.
5 lor further particulars apply to Henry Pmtt,
. No 04 North Watrr Mr- t Philadelphia, or |o
!, CHRISTOPHER HETDRJCK,
on Cbtuiul-Hi]!
Chcf«ut-fcill, august 1 ith, 17;8.
IVOLUMS XIV.!Tx«ar.Sr prate,
% y gt
PHILADELPHIA,
EVENING, SEPTEMBER 3.
To the Inhabitants of the town of Cincin
nati and its vicinity, in the Northwestern
Territoiy.
g ; n rlemen;
I HAVE received and read with much
pleasure your unanimous address of the zsjth
nf June. I agree with you, that in the or
dinary course of affairs, interpositions rtf po
pular meetings to overawe those to whom
the management of public affair* are con
fided, will seldom be warranted by discre
tion, or found compatible with the £ood or
der of society. Bnt at a period like this,
tliere 13 no method more infallible t(J detcr
n??ne the qtteilion, whether the people are
or are not united. Upon no ocfafion in the
history of America; has this mode of dis
covering and afcercairiing the public opinion
been so universally resorted to. And it
m3y be asserted with confidence, that at no
period of the exiiienceof the United States,
have evidences of the unanimity of the peo
ple been given, so decided, as on the present
question with France.
Tne people of this* country, the mod re
mote from the feat of government and .-entre
of information, as well as thof- in its neigh
bourhnod, have at length diffjivered that
they ar* American-, and feelingly alive to
the injuries committed again ll their coufi
try, and to the <ndig iitif« offered to their
gov.'rnme:it.
Upon ourfe'ves or'ytve ought to depend
for fafety ?nd t'f fence. This maxim, how
ever, bV no n .ar.3 forbids us to avail our
selves of the advantages of prudent and will
' | warded concerts with others, exposed to
common dangers. Animated with fenti
roents like yours, our country is able to de
fend itfelf against any enemies that may rife
up against it.
Nothing can be mrre flattering to me
than your affu ance of confidence in this
perilous hour : and nothing could mortify
me so much, as that you should ever have
reason to believe that your confidence has
been misplaced. In return for your prayers
for my perf. nal happiness, I sincerely of
fer mine for the profperily of the North
•weftern Territory in common with all the
United States,
JOHN ADAMS.
Qnincy, August it, 1798.
To the Inhabitants of Hamilton County in
the Territory North Weft of the River
Ohio, assembled at Columbia on the 4th
of July.
Gentlemen
Your Address hasl>een forwarded by Co
lonel Spetvceras yon requested, and demands
a refpeftful return. /The approbation of
any of the inhabitants beyond the mountains,
is very acceptable to me for reasons which
cannot bf mistaken. You mutt lhare the
fo,-tunes of your Brethren in the Atlantii?
Siatcn, wheitit. piufperoua aciverfe. Se
parated from them y.u would soon be the
prey of One or another foreign power, and
fubjeft to a yoi<e, wh'ch neither yen, nor
vour fathers nor brothers were able to bear.
y JOHN ADAMS.
* Quirtcy Augujl 17 1798.
From the Connefficut Courant.
Mtflrs. Hudson and Goodwin, ,
Since I came into this ftaie from Philadelphia, 1
find there has been circulated hefe, a publication,
put porting to be a debate in the Srr.a'e of the United
States, 011 a motion ol Mr. Martin of North-Carolina,
ropolipone. to the next session of Congress—the con.
(■delation of a bill, to declare void the treaties be.
twecn the United Sates and France. The part af_
Ggned to me in that publication, is so very differen,
from the oue I sQually took in the debate; that j
request you 10 P" bl (h the following sketch,
| n j, thefubftance of the observations I made, on thi,
® otlon- URIAH TRACY.
litchfiJd, Artg. 18, «79 8
Mr. P.efiden',
I hope this motion for postponement will no I ob
tVrif). —Two reasons have been ur ? ;cd, in favor of the
Motion; one, the danger which wiH rcfalt from pal
fcp.g the bill now x 10 our citizens and their property ;
and the ether, goes so far, as to controvert ih« prin
ciples of the Kill itfelf
Were this the fkft measure of disagreement between
us and France, the cafe might beditfeitnt: but we
have authorized the capture of French and
have palled many other aits, tending in their opera
tion to defend our citizens against French aggreflion ;
many, if not all Americans within the territory of
I ranee, z r c notified of thefea&s, at any ra e all Ame
ricans at home, who have property in the republic ol
France know of tbem ; and those at home and abroad,
have long known there were diffeiences ketwern the
two nations. —And those differences were specially
adapted to create caution, in trusting themselves or
property in France; and to excite aftivity in with
dtawing both, that may have antecedently been pla
ced there. When will there be a time, we can take
such a measure as this, withoutexpofing the pioperty,
and pofi-ibly the persons of lome individuals ?
it docs not appear that more injury will be incurred
by the paflage ol this bill the present, than at a future
frflion. Hut, are there not fame advantages to be
derived from ena£l ng this bill into a law, the present
feflion ? The aft authorizing the capture ot French
armed vessels on our coast, does not provide a remedy
comnienfurate with the evil; it may be, and certainly
i.s doubted, whet Ik r by virtufe ol this aft, French
prisoners, (V»uld any be taken, can be deprived of
t'hft benefrs of the treaties between the United States
and France; and whether if one of the French vef
jejs Ihoajd come into port, that the militia, or any
detachment ol our array arc authorized to make prize
ol her, These doubts can be done awav, by a diSo
lution of the treaties. But if this dissolution does
xu-t take place,'or a fpecific aft lor the purpose, we
(hall be left in an unpte«r(Vt and awkward situation.
As the principle ol this bill is attacked, it is pre
sumed, a Ibort but comprehcnfive view ol the fabjeft
inav be proper, under the motion lor poflponement.
No principle bbetter ettabliihed by the laws of
nations, than, in safe of exiftiftg treaties, if one par
ty violates any one or more of the Imputation's, the
jnjurpd party has a right in consequence of such vio*
latton, to consider the whole void. she French go
vernment has most flagrantly violated federal of the
stipulations contained iri the treaties pi opofed to be
<Teciared void by this hill; this is a given faft by everv
member of the Senate. The right has then cieariy
accrued tv> the IMjed the policy c-t the mea
imc is by such. a variety ot important confi
tlera-tiens, that I cannot loi a moment htfuate to give
;hc b»ll my moll hearty and unequivocal support*
Were it a given pointy that our envoys are to make
a Jettlcmcnt of difterenccs with the French govern
tr.-nt, my wifli is, th»L as a preliminary Hep,, the :
Tjreient might be away, eipcciallji th< i
mu'ual f!u nr?n ' v - r ' not more prob?Ve, w-can
I obtain an e.uiic't* or treaties, without atiy |
f.K'h disagreeable ,?> an 1 »he-guaranty !
( c*o T e Bfuck out, '.n a moci ftvation of the exiftiug
J treafv. &o<i'd fdeh s modification V* attempted?
i Bu., fir, F wn'li a difi&jhiiiofi of the existing treaties
I \*ith Franccj never i<> others, with the prr
ft>ns now ifieg the government :—prefc
abie in m'y opiuurn w,ou)d ce iutcrminable and unex
tinguifbable war with then.,' to any treaty % b'c-»ufe I
have no confSderce in slieir fulfilmcn of treaties,
while they set at dcfi<nce every principle of morality,
and feoff at every maxim both political and moral,
, whkh have heretofore been held facrcd by all civili
zed naribtw. A cefpitkin of ho ilities L fineerely
| widi, but can have no confidence chat hoUilities will
cease, in consequence oLapy league, promise or con
tract that we can make. We have I(ufte»cd, for two
years pall. Jepreda'ions from chc lfrench, indcfiai ce
of treaties, and wh'le they have reaped all the bene
fits, we haves 'frercd iricomparahly move, th*n if no
! treaties had e*xifled. The principles oi who at
present govern that unhappy country I with CO guard
ag:inft: and against ihem would 1 a>-m eveiy ma.i,
woman d»t,d child in .Vitieriea, every nun,
- woman and Child in France, if aiTiilrd by the in.
f Gent'emen Nave said, a declaration ot war is pre
ferable to this bill ; I acknowledge a'declaration of
war, will operate in effeft to rept3l the treaties, and
■ it is poflible if rhe gentlcfnen wlfh it, th v rnav be
j gratified by a declaration, duiing the present feffioM,
it in thecourieof next week, but of this i
cmnot decide, as I know not what will be done on
1 the fubjeft* or wbatcaufes may arise to induce such a
but am confident a repeal of the treaties is
> left violent, and will oc attended with less irouble
fome confequer.ccs than a of war. The
' one is diflolving a rendeied pernicious,
by the charafter ar-d violation of one of the parties;
the other is an exertion of our fSivuhies in open artack.
Treaties, by tne conflitution of the United Stages,
are theftapreme aw of the land, and our courts tnuft
govern tneir dec!lions by them, unlets otherwiie di
refted by for,re pofuive law. Several ?fts posTed this
fc'Hion, have, by opposing some pans of the treaties
between us and France, releafe<l our courts from the
obligations of those fpecific parts; but unl"fs we go
1 into minute details, and make laws to meet each cafe,
we must pafsthis general law, which will at once re-
Icafe courts and other citizens of the United States
from all obligations contained in those treaties, so far
as they have been considered the law of the land. This
in my opinion i» more proper Than to multiply le
. gifhtive regulations.
It has been obfe>ved, that custom in other countries,
■ has not fanftioned the repeal of treaties To this it
mav be arnfwete4, that the power of making treaties,
» and declaring war are ordinarily lodged in the fame
person or body of men, and a declaration of war, or
aftuady making war, without a forma! declara:ion.
; :rc considered aj doing away ali compafts or treaties
made by or between .he fame parties. Some doubts
may arise inJhe United States, whether all the force
of treat es can be destroyed without a fpecific legida
tive aft; since treaties are made by the President and
Senate, and vSar, eitljer by declaration or other wife,
cin hav a . no leg tunaii origin, but with the legiflatu'e
—lf this reasoning be not conclusive, the peculiar fi
j tuaticn of the United States, forbids a conclusion,
that wantot precedcat fliou'd defeat this bill.
' Gentlemen have fail, we have reason to believe Mr.
Gerry is now negocia ing a treaty with the French
government: but if the gentlemen will pcrufe the
Jaft meflfageefrom the President, containing dispatches
from Mr, Gerry himTelf—they will find no such thing
—-and the President has exphci f ly declared all negeci
ation is at ao end; and that they should not, Under
present cjrcuin&ances, be rgain attempted.
NEWARK, August 28.
The SILVER 1 D Gray Volunteer Company
of Newark, exempts from Military Duty
by age.
Met last Saturday evening to choose their
Officers, they made choice of
SAMUEL HAY, Captain.
NATH ! NIEL CAMP, Lieutenant.
SAMORL S^fisn.
This Con>pa:;y conOila at prcien', of
Sixty Old Tried Veteran*, they annexed
their several ages to their names on the en
rollment, and the aggregate appears to be
3 244 years, all trble and ready to do doty.
It is worthy of remark, that every ex
empt n this town, enrolled himfrlf in this
Company, four or five only excepted, and
we have good reason to anuounce, that those
few will cheerfully join their fellow citi
zens when occasion requires.
.
KNOXVILLE, August 7.
Tellico, yuly 23.
GARRISON ORDERS.
The commandant of the post cannot omit
this opportunity of exprefling the lively
emotions of gratitude, which he feels as a
common citizen of America, to the great
founder of our liberty as an independent
nation, who is agaiu called on as the Cin
cinnatus of his country, to defend the liber
ties which he was so peculiarly instrumental
in gaining, as well as to exprcfi the com
plete confidence hs (hoaid feel in again ha
zarding his life' under such a leader. Though
but few of you my fellow soldiers, have
had the honour to serve unrier a WASH
INGTON, many of you have gained honor
under a WAYNE, u!s pwpil; and I am
weil convinced, should you be called dn to
exercise your fo!dierfhip, in defence of your
common eottnt y, you would acquit your
fe'ves as the soldiers of the ont, and the pu
pils of the other. / d'tred a gill oj WhiHey
to be iflued to every man of the garrison,
asexpreffed in the commanding officers or
ders order ofyefterday.
EDWARD BUTLER,
Captain Commanding.
GEORGE-TOWN, August 28
Communicated.
On Thursday last, a number of refpefta
ble citizens «f this t wn, give a handsome
dinner to Robert G. Harptr, Efqr. to evince
their approbation of his political conduft-
The day was spent in great conviviality—
the company did rot retire till a late hour
and appeared highly gratified.
Bolton Glass,
THE Company now engaged in carrying on
the Glass Minufaitory, with pleafnre allure
■ha public, they have at length brought the busi
ness into a situation that will allow them to promise
n flriA punctuality in the execution of all orders,
and a fuperioriiy in the glass they manufacture to
any imported.
Their Agents, MelTrs. Joseph Anthony and
Co. of Philadelphia, will receive and transmit «o
rive Company, orders from asy part of the South
ern States, and will contrail for the delivery of
the Glafy, or ferm6 as reasonable as could be pro
cured from the Company therrtfeK es.
I,et.-eri>and orders diredled to Cbxrla F. Kaffir,
at thf •.voric* m Boiloil, fhili meet the ftri&eft at
tention.
N. B. They cut of any ftz* from 6 by 8 to 18
by 24 inches,
jnly 17 2aw3m
&■ large Key found and left
at tbV ( ill re t« the Editor —where th<j Owner 1
may V"ec(tive its I'Jjuft 31
| Latert Foreign Intelligence.
j F?.OM A LONDON pais rQf JUS s 16.
Received by the June of Neu>-1 oth.
FRANCE and AMSRfC
' A French pap r, The Bien Infant;', of
the (JrtH of June, contained a detailed ac
count of thi-* steps the French mitiif
ter of fortign affairs Was taken to juftify
himfelf from tlie imputations which the pub
lication of the documents relative to the
j American negotiation at Paris had thrown
' upon him. ThiVcomplicated aCcount-cfn
j fifts of a correfpondeuce between Tailey
-1 rand Perigerd and Mr. Gerry, on he fob
■ jeifl of the publication, and the myllical cha
{ radters ailurled to irt it, und -r the titles of
IW X Y ind Z- T'jjl correfpondeuce, is
! preceded by a !.i£pured defence of the con
; du£t of the French government with refpejl
i tr) America, and enclpvonrlo refute
! charges which the American documents
' contain.
j It is impoffib!" for ua at present to go
further into this voluminous article, than to
extracl two or three. pafiages from it, by
which it will appear that the main objedl ot
; the French min>fter of foreign affairs is, to
(hake from his own shoulders the disgrace of
having been privy to an ■ prdpofitious of a
corrupt nature. How he has succeeded in
this, our readers willjudgefrom the following
1 extradl :
| " Such is the fttuation of the man, who
; ever he may be, who is placed at the head
of this department, that he is obliged to re
ceive and to listen to a number of persons
who are far from enjoying any (hare of his
confidence, without his having any means of
preventing the abuse they make of these un
meaning and infignificant visits, of which
they avail themselves with heedless iiexpe
rience, in order to promote their own inter
ested views.
" Ih the publication which the American
government has given of the account of its
commiflioners, the names of unacknowledg
ed persons are designated by an initial letter.
•The minister impatient to dilcover their
names, peremptorily required they should
be given up to him, and at length succeed
ed in obtaining the desired communication,
which he immediately deposited in proper
hands It will be learned with pleasure that
they are foreigners, and it will be easily be
lieved that they have been forward in doing
justice to themselves by hastening to quit
the territories of tiie republic. Only one of
these letters designates a Frenchman, who
was not backward in declaring himfelf. The
language nfed by him is irreproachable ; he
is announced as having sometimes a£led as an
interpreter, but itisevidentthat he interpret
ed none but honourable proportions.
" But as to the foreigner*, who make a
figure in this negoeiation, it appears that
the whole obje£l of their intrigues was to
obtain from the Americans a sum of twelve
hi!: dred i ItoWand livresi in ci'der to be dis
tributed for purpoies of corruption. v,._
hence arise, and here terminate ail the bus
tle, all the itifinuations, all the reports, so
minutely detailed.™ the account of the A
meritfin comaiiffioners."
Citizen Talleyrand having surmounted,
as he thinks, ose of his greatest difficulties,
proceeds to compliment in most fulfome
terms, Mr. Gerry, who, he fays, was not
imposed upon by these intiiguers—and for
this clear reason, it was artfully managed
that no corrupt propofilions should be ad
vanced in his hearing; by th s manoeuvre one
part of the American embassy was playing
off againlt the other in such a way as to keep
the different members of it at variance as to
the apparent condudl of the French minister,
and even at a loss in refpeft t& their own ul
timate objedl in the negociation.
It is evident, however, that citizen Tal
leyrand was not prepared for such a ftate
meut as the American commissioners have
laid open to the world by the following pas
sage, which precedes his declamatory con
clusion.
" The whale ofthefefafts offers such atif
fue of incongruities and the
mind is bewildered in them. One is at a : ofs
how to date with precision the reproaches
that ought ;o be made to the American
commiflioners
" Bat it maybe clearly seen and under
(lood, that they have been most strangely de
ceived, if they have believed, and that they
are the more perfidious if they have not be
lieved, what they have related. In the ex
preffimi of these reproaches which are tarn
from indignation, we mufl moflJludioufly ex
clude Mr. Gerry whq, doubtless, may have
been deceived both by the foreign intriguers,
and perhaps even by his "own colleagues ;
for in him no suspicion of badfaith or infmce
ri/y can attach."
All this flattery of Mr. Gerry is easily
accounted for : he was not so alive to the
iniufts offered his country, as his associates.
He can fee a very smooth road of negociati
on yet open between the two republics !
But to come to the curious conclusion of
the French minifler's defence :
" There were doubtless great objefls ia
view which made them (the French and A
merican ministers) hazard holding out, as
discoveries of the highest important:*, the
incoherent tales of two foreign intriguers
connefted with France. Perhaps they sup
posed that the citizens of the United States
of Ametiea would ferman ideaofthe French
government from these caricatures, 9nd
that the French government would be irri
tated by so pointed a provoca ion.—Tney
calculated the effedt of the insult from ths
malignit) of the intention, and not from the
littleness of the means. In a word, they
flattered themielces with exciting indignati
on instead of pity. They wished fo»war;.
they wished that France, infuited, should
declare war against the people whole cause
(he had defended, nnd that the people should
through their own efforts, be replaced ua- |
der the dominion of England.
" By means of that vrar the Briti.li cabi- «
net would gain sn a lit whowruld labor for j
its irtereft—who wohld second its projeils ,
.against the Fre-ach i d Soanifh colonies a"d i
etard the monvnt rf its humiliation By;
menus alCo of that w.tr the Bri i(h cabi tt 1
accelerates the execution ufa pun of which
it had never loft fi^ht.
" It is well known that as soon as it def
f paired of rf-umUvg to the triple urown the
- States whose independence it wss compelled
to acknowledge, it at haft endeavoured to
y revive in their minds prejudices favourable
- to limited monarchy ; that they endeavour
e ed-to fortify by tht analogy ofconftitution
n al forms, the habitudes th.it were common
to the Englifti and American people, and
that they took to keep for a UngUt of
1 time in the vicinity of the United States,
- i one of the fohs <if j: 11. Can it
f then be coaceivrd to be tr.«t that, to 'he
s degradation of the human miiid, there shall
be found a number of American citizens se
t rioufly inclined to the Enghfh form of gov
s ernment ? Can it be true ihat men, ca'led
s by the public confidence to tie head of the
government of the United States, llvuld
3 have wr tten in favour of tlie British cois
i ftitution, merely in order to prepare the a
s doption of it in their own coustry ? Ctn
t it be flue that a thirst for honours, that a
> greediness for wealth, that a deliie of con
s tit/'.iing in power (hould have already matn
a red this conspiracy against the cause of frte
i dom ?
I ' It were henceforward fuperfiuous to
dissemble—Such are the criminal attempts
- of the Englilh cabinet—such is the blind in
-1 cliaationof a government which it influences.
The correspondence which Vl.Talleyrand
s attaches as a kind of evi'ence to chara&er,
s and which we do not think lair to abridge,
f is as follows :
[Here follows in the London print, the
(l correspondence between Mr, Gerry and
Mr. Talleyrand, which we re-published on
■- Thursday.]
h CARRICKFURGUS, June ii. '
s On Saturday and yellerday, the people
;- of the parishes jnf Broadifland and Ifiand
Magee came it here in large bod es, and
!r delivered up,al their a>ms, consisting of
d mulkets, bayontts, pitchforks and pikes.
" We have .'Nothing to fear in this quar
, ter, for the in'iabitanta seem to be entirely
x of one party—For government."
it
SAINTFIELD, June 13.
5 An engagement happened not far from
t us two nights ago. The rebels having ta
f ken up a position on a neighbouring hill in
o great force, a strong detatchment from Bel
e faft came against them. ' Gen Barber com
e manded, and commenced his attack early in
n the evening, which he continued till eleven
> o'clock at night, when he ordered his troops
to cease firing ; the rebels however couti
a naed their fire without intermifiion. About
t two o'clock in the morning, the King's
0 troops again opened fheir fire from cannon
e and mortars, which the rebels flood by for
"- some time, but al length were forced to
way, jn alt # leaving
- on the field two Hand of colours and si*
j pieces of cannon. The number of rebels
- killed is v«ry great; one of their leaders is
among the slain.
, The King's troops had only 8 men killed
, and 15 wounded.—Captain Evans and Lieu
e tenant Ellifon of the Monaghan militia are
t killed—another Lieutenant is wounded,
r The effedi of the rebellion ha* been most
1 deplorable in this part of the country, which
- for three miles round, is laid desolate
e scarcely a house (landing.
r The rebels have a camp a few miles from
j Belfaft, where a number of smiths are work
-3 ing night and day making pikes
, The towns of Templepatriek, Doagh,
- Randalftone, Killead, Ballynure and Bcl
lyclare, all situated within a ftort distance
- round Antrim, have been bu tit or laid waste.
- A number vof ihfurgents in arms near Bal
; lytnena are hemed in Ijy CoJ. Clavtring on
- one fide, and Colonel Lumlcy on the other.'
. ! Many people belonging .to tlie towns which
have been laid waffle, and the neighbouring
country, are coming in and throwing thera
? felvesoii the mercy of Goternment.
j VIENNA, May 30.
i The /head of the Italian iniurger.ts, it is said,
has. promoted to_re(lore the pope to his feat ■
their numbers *re daily .increa'fed by persons
wantiag bread and deflitutf of'employ.
All the military in Hungary are in motion.
The infantry is particular are completely irftied-;
and according to the new difpoGtiom, each
Hungaiian reigmeiit tjpnfifts of 4500 men. The
banishment of #oles?and Italians is flill gying on.
FRANCKFORT, June j.
The fortrefs of Ment'z rs put into the most
formidable state of defenee; 600 piece* of can-,
non have been added to the worki, and an im
mense quantity of ammuniti on-and proviQons.
The French, it is laid,, mean to rail'e the
blockade of Ehrenbreitftcio;
BASLE, jime 1.
The inhabitants ot th'e Valais have not laid
down their aims as reported; of one French
battalion fen 1 thSm, :t isi'-.id, not a man returned
unwounded. Cirtzen Ripinat has been informed
by the French Dire dory, that he will not incur
their riifpleafure, by dropping the process aguinfl
Biirchvardt, Kolb, and Maisin, who wert ini- .
plicated in the affair of the brn! ,e of Huiiingues,
when theFrenih general .ti aaiee'was killed',
ill confluence or' the violation of the Swili
territory by the Aufi/iaps.
FROM THE PARIS PAPERS.
i 7th Prairial( June 4.) \
The «tiftih6tiid|td by raptain Mufkin, I
left La Hague a fewtiays 3yo, one part went to 1
Cherbnrgh, the other, confiflng of eight -un
boats, on the way to Havre, was met by a su
perior Englilli force, anti compelled to fake
refuge in the river of Dives. It was this fqua- ) '
dro.-t, and not the town of Dives» which was ' '
bombarded by the English, the latter fired 100
brmbs am! "i>oq balls wirhoat doing him any .
lurm. All ri' i'g the coall the English blockade i
our p»rts aad burn (.ur (hips.
A Jew named Matheo has published in Italian
j a 'ttter, addiefltd to his brethren, in which he '
i ?ropofes to them to establish the empire of Je
■ rufaiem. He tells them, that an iu- '
i tion has given an example of what the love cf :
I country «n defirei t' 1 "" to implore its
' stenetofiiy; and ttiev may then be allured, that
' the philosophy whic+i guides the chiefs of that
. fub'ime nation, will incline them to give a fa
vour abe reception to the demand. He thea
1 describes the means of securing success to thi*
enterprise. He proposes, that there (hall be
eftabhfhed a council, the members of which
(hall be elefW by the Jews who are scattered
over Europe, Alia, and Africa, of whatever t's<St
! rhey may be clafled, accord : ng to the countries
they inhibit, and forming sis teen tribes, each t»
fend a deputy to Paris, where the council (hall
be held. The council (hall appoint an agent to
the Executive of France.—Matheo
then points out the limits of the country which
the Jews ought to occupy. " Placed in the cen
tre of the world," fays he, " our country will
become tie entrepot of all the rich and ufefut
productions of the earth." If the French go
vernment give the nsceflary affi tance, the couu
cil (ball offer in return, firft, pecuniary indem
nifications—-fecondly, to (hare the commerce
with French merchants only.
LONDON, June 10.
Thelateft letters from Switzerland state,
that the French commiflioiier Rapmat had
written to the He veticDire&orv. question
ing the sovereignty of the Swiss Republic,
and' calling the treasures upon which the
• French seal had been put, at Berne and
other places, the property of the French
Republic. The Hivetc Directory, on the
' refolu ion of the afTetr.bly, have d manded
an explanation, declaring their independence,
and their determination to prelerve it at the
hazard of their lives.
We intimated that a cor.fiderable part of
the residue of tftie army of England" had
been ordered to the interior. Part of it has
within thife few days been recalled to the
coast ; not for the purpose of invafioa, but
to repel the attr.cks every where apprehend
ed from the a&ive gallantry of fir Richard
Strachan ; who, one day at Havre, the
next at Cherbourg, thi? third at La Hogue,
proclaims nlorc • ffethialiy to ths p»ople of
France the duplicity of their rulers than
could the eloquence as even a dozen men
like Mr. Pitt, if it were ~pofiible the world
could produce them.
We have reafon'to belive that the manner
in which the French were received by-th«
handful of gallant'fellows at St. Marcou,
will prevent their freedily making those
rocks another vifitv Th*v are dated, by
the lafl accounts from the continent, to
have a&ually. 101 l 1100 men ktlkd "and
drowned, brfides a- co.ufiderable number
wounded. Their objeft at present is the
conqueft'of Jersey, Guernsey, and Alder
ney ; for which purpose they have 14.000
folders in, and ready to embark 011 board
the flotilla ; but we hope and believe that
wherever they may go they will be treated
as th^yVught.
Mr- Todd, the late secretary to the poft
ofiice,~who died on Thursday, was appoint
ed to.that situation in the year 1732, for
some time pall his memory wholly failed
feim, but he retained his appetite and his
spirits to the last. With his daughter he
gave to lord Lauderdale, some years since,
40,0001—We urderftand he has left to that
nobleman a further sum of 80,0001. with
several considerable legacies.
June 10.
Yesterday the arfival of the ex
tra (hip Albion, from Bengal, off Stone
haven, in Scotland, was announced at the
East India house. She has been 8 weeks
from St. Helea», with dispatches, which
(he landed at Bervie near Montrfrfe, and in
her came over the following p.ifTengers, ma
jor Lloyd and captain Frazer of the Bengal
eltablifhment, captain Scott of theyStU foot,
captain Macdowgall of the 98th, captain
Hargrove of the I,3th, Madras cavalry,
Mr. Gough from Calcutta, lieut. Owenc
of the 33d, and Mr. Thompson of the Roy
al Navy. Lieutenant Carrathurs of the
Bengal Ellablifhmtrit died on the paflage •
betwixt Calcutta and the Cape. T; e fol
lowing fliips were waiting for convoy t St.
Helena when-the Albion Jailed : The Glat
ton, Boddaui, duke of Bncclcugh, Crescent
packet, from China ; Rcfe, Houghton,
and Lord Thurlow, from Calcutta; Marquis
of Lanfdowne, HillfLorough, and King
George, from Madras, belonging to the
Fall Tndia Company.
Extra (hips: —The Walter Boyd, Ifa.
Bella, Pursuit and Ariadne, from Calcutta ;
Bfcllqna, from .Amboyna, with fpicts ii)
bulk, valued at 200,000!. The Duff packet
from China ; Prir.cefs Royal; from Bora-iy
Lay ; the William and the Barbara whalers ;
the Plia-iix, a Portuguese, from Calcutta,
and the Danifli (hip Denmark, ?.re detained
by governor Brooks, supposed so have
Dutch property on Board from Batavia.
1 he Earl of Exeter has expunged from
his library and burnt the woik of Voltaire,
Roufleail, Bolingbroke, Abbe Raynal and
rrerrch EncyclopoeJia .
From the L.ondcn Gazette,
WHITEHALL, June 16.
Difp.itches, of which the so lowing art
copies, have bet n this day received from his.
hxcelhncy the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland
by his Grace the Duke of Portland, his ma
jesty's principal Secretary of State for the-
Holne Department.
Dublin CijJ/e, June 11, 1708.
MY LORD,
I Am concerned to acquaint your Gr.ice
that accounts received fft.m maj. gen. Nu
gent this morning art not so favourable as
ftom the deiij'ls which were yesterday re
ceived I had reason to hope. A body cf
rebels having affcmbled near Saiotfield, they
«erc attacked by a detachment under col.
otaplcton, who at firft fu(fer«d some los»,
but he afterwards put the rebels to flight. .
Being ordered to proceed to Newtown
Ardes, colonel Stapleton found the rebels
in pofltfiion of the town, upon which gen.
Nugent ordered him to retire until his force
could be augmented. ,
There is no official account as to-the body
of rebels which were to be attacked by briy.
gen. Knox, at Tooir.e bridge- Private a'-rcounts state that they have been dispersed.
I have the honor to be, &c.
CAMDEN.
Dullin Cajlle, June 12, 1798.
MY LORD,
I Have the honor to acquaint your grice,
that accounts have been t' is day received
from rnaj. gen. Nugent, who is t Belfaft,
which date, that the information he had re
ceived of a larjre body of reb-Is having en
trenched themfclves near Toome Bridge,
was lunfoundtd. One arch of the bridge
had been broken down an inconfidcrable J
party, which had been dispersed ; the bridge .
has been since ren- ered passable.
Col. Clavering has reported from Antrim •
to maj. gen. Nugent that the difaffe&ed in
the neighbourhood of the town had expref- t
fed a desire to submit and return to their j
duty At Ballymena, 150 mulkets and 4
800 pikes had been given up to the magifc
trates. Many arms, 500 pikes, and a brass ;
field piece, have been surrendered to major
Seddon.
Maj. gen. Nugent exprefles his warmed £
acknowledgments to the regulars, militia and ( -
yeomanry lorces under his cummand for t
their alertness, zeal and spirit.
Other advices date, that lieut. col. Stew- |
art, having marched from Blaris with a part
oT the Argyll fencib'es, 30 cavalry, and f
some yeomanry, arrived ai Ballynahinch as
the rebels were beginning to collect. He
relieved fdme yeom n who were in their pof- |
fefli n, and the rebels fled into lord Moira'«
whither they pursued about 46 of them were t
killed, and the remainder difperftd.
By a letter received this morning frcm
m j. gen. Sir Charles Afgil!, it appears that
he had attacked a rebel camp at the Ro»r
near Rofs, which he Completely dispersed,
jo men were killed, and their leader.
I have the honor to bs, &Ci
CAMDEN.
1
At* conrtat St. James's, the i3th-of June '
1798, present the King's mod excellent
majefly in council.
His majf sty in cotrrieil was this day plea- (
fed to declare Charles marquis Cornwalhs,
Lieutenant general and general governor of
his majesty's kingdom of Ireland.
DUBLIN CASTLE, June 16.
-Thi« morning advices were received from major
general Jogent. By them it apjiearj that there- I
hela, wUo had been defeated by them at Ballyna 1
hince, have petitioned for pardoa, «ad off-red to
fuirender up all their arms and ammunition
The major general, in reply, promised so accept
fuhmiflion, on the condition of their giving up '
their leader, Monroe, and the other principal 1
trait rs who had instigated them to their lare wick- (
ed graitice? They were to surrender by 1» <>'- (
clock on the 15th. Monroe was, however, taken j
by general Kugent early on that morning.
Major general Nujrent, alluding o the affair at 1
Bailynahinch, dates the Wfs of the rebels to hve 1
exceeded 500 men, and that many have been since
made prisoners. The general particularly states (
his acknowledgments for the services of major ge- ,
Beral Barber.
He mentions also, with great the 1
eonduA of Mt. Boyd of Bally calle Mr. M'- 1
Naghten kad sent to warn him of his danger,
which induced him to retreat on Friday ljfl to Col
raine, where he colle&ed the Dwnfevinch and Gi- j
ants' Causeway corps, with which, together wirh .
his own, he returned to Bally aftle, and beat the ,
ytfeels Witjyf the iilace, and lie is now proceeding !
to punifli them between that town and Glenarm,
Captain Stewart, of the Glenarm yeomanry, :
and captain Matthews, of the FoTtaferry yeoman- I
ry, have behaved uncommonly well in repulsing i
large bodies of rebels, who attacked them with
great fury.
General Nueent speaks generally of the con
duit of all the yeomanry in his diftriift in tl e
warmed terms of approbation, and mention that
he had thanked them all.
RASTADT, June 1.
The Prnflian Minister resident here, ac
cording to what has has declai
ed to the French Minister Bonnier, that the
unexpefted demands on the part of the Re
public, commuuicated in the last note rela
tive to the fortreffes upon the right (bore of
the Rhine, have made a very sensible Im
prcflion upon his Prussian Majesty, pecu
liarly as the Ring can view those demands
in no other l'ght tha" as offenfivc and me
nacing meafntes, which will oblige his Ma
jesty to continue his cautionary prepara
tions : Ehrenbeitftein, he contends, (hou d
beconfid red as a fortrefs calculated tcr the
defence of the North of Germany, and ne
c<Warily included in the line of his obferva
tio '. The Prnflian Minister added at the
fame tims, that the king had no design to
enter into any new coalition, provided the
French gave up the demand* above menti
oned. his Majedy having no objeftion to
their peaceful poffeffio* of those countttes
upon the left fide < f the Rhine ceded to
th«m by the Empire.
Another letter fame date.
The Imperial Envoys have solemnly de
clared they can by no means agree to the
late demands of the French ; thde being in
confident with the independence ot the
rGerman Empire, and dangerous in relpett
ito the tranquility of other dates.
People are full of expedition for the lflue
of Prince Repnin's negociatioos at Berlin,
and those of Count Cobenzal at Seltz, which
-are said to include the affair of Bernanotte
•.at Vienna. f
In Alsace, and all along the left (hore of
the Rhine, the voung men have beed lately
put in requifitiori to reinforce the trench
armies.
The following Certificates
OF Funded Bebt an< Bank of United States
Stuck, were forwarded from Eng and per
the Counted of l.cieefter Packet, ni the Ilth
ZIX 1 797- -!»ch vclTd has been captured,
n„l the Certificates supposed to bJ lolt.
dollars Ah t>= r «"t. Stock,
hooks of the Trcalury, in the nam* of Bird Savage
and Bird Certificate no 189. dated July 19th, 96.
Ten Shares Stock of the Bank of Umted States
in the n-me of Miller, H.rt & Co. of London
jit one Certificate, N0."56067 • d.ced the lit day
For the'renewslof which
tion is intended to be made at the Ofhce ot the
i'reafury of the Uniti-1 State., and at the Dank of
\ United States ; of which all Pcrtons .nterettcd
\ tticrem - re Jd ' teJ C< JOHN'WARDER.
't Philadelphia, $ miJ ' l(> > 1
Xlje tefazttt.
PHILAD ELP HIA ,
MONDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 3.
HEALTH OFFICE,
September 1, 1798.
FELLOW-CITIIENS,
Impelled by the awful progress and un
paralleled malignity of the prevailing fever,
we are conflrained to address your feelings,
as well as your reason, in order to avert the
fatal d<-ftruftiori which, with rapid ftriden,
is pervadi-g our ill fated ciiy and fubur'is.
The beft'lkill of our physician*, and all
the powers of medicine, it must bs aeknow
ledged, have prov d unequal it) the coated
with this devouring poison-
With the mod affeiSing sympathy and '
anxious solicitude, we have to the b ft of
our judgments, endeavoured to employ, as
circumstances appeared to tequire, the pow- j
er and the means entruded to Us, in arrest
ing its progrtfs, and allevi itin* its concomi
tant miseries. We (hall con'i juc to em
ploy them with unremitting zeal; but we
have neither the power nur the raean> to
accotmplifh all the measures neceflary
to check its extension, or provide for the
prefling exigencies of the moment. The
powers dels g,ated, and appropriations made
by law. to the institutions under our direc
tion, are impotent indeed, when compared
to the magnitude of the occasion.
It remiins for our fellow citiz ns to at
tain, by their energy, the end* which alone
can ft p its progrtfs and diminish its horror?.
We have, i'i conjunction with the Guar
dians of the Poor, caused tents to be ere£t
ed on the east b? k of the Schuy'killj for
accommodation jj' the ihdiu«n't ; wliere
near twelve lundred are already provided
for, out of the fui.d appropriated tor tha or
dinary relief of the poor. This is but a
partial mitigation of the evils wtokh
environ >h ufr.a.ls o jve a claim up n
tire philanthropy <»f tWofa who are in more
fortunate circumstances.
The difficulty i f prep r ng a place of re
fuse, at prtfent, in thecoun'ry, is too well
known ; nnd the expence att nding the re
moyal of a fan ily has difenuraged mary
fron the aft-mpt, who ar-.- in circumftaqccs
to live comfortably at home.
What remains obe done ? Citizens of
refpe^tability and influ ncel Come forward,
and form yourfclves into a committee for
the purpose of crafting on the weft bank
of the Schuylkill, all the tents that can be
colle&ed; let the tents be floored with
boards, and made as comfortable as poflible ;
if tents cannot be had, boards in a undance
may be procured for the ereftion of shed».
Admonish those citizens who have no place
of refuge, to take shelter there, particularly
those from the east part of the city, the dif
trift of Southwark, andthe Northern Liber
ties—in (hort, ALL who can leave their
homes without injury ; sxcept
those who are neceflary for the proteftion
of the city and liberties.
The committed (hould have th- general
fuperistendarce and regulation of the tents,
and authority to prei'erve order ; contrad
for certain supplies of bread, meat, vegeta
bles, wood, See at the lowed poflible rates,,
Those who are rfot in circumstances to pay,
must Ae supplied by public bounty. ,
It is at bed an unequal, perhaps an unjust
mode of railing money by an appeal to the
humanity of generous individuals ; but if on
any occasion it may be juftified, the present
may be assumed without hesitation.
We call your attention to the aftual and
undiffiuifed state of our city. Consider the
mortality and rapid increase of the sick at so
early a period. View the lift of your phy
sicians, and mark how few art at their pqjls ;
a-d we believe ytu will think with tis, that
the prefervatipn of health is only to be at
tained by flight.
Do not flatter yourfel;e», fellow-citizens,
that this pi&ttre is too highly coloured , we
speak from conviftion, and a knowledge ef
faSs ; atiS doubt not,' ut that the lives of
hundreds, perhaps of th ufands, may he pre
served by the adoption of these or similar
mcafures.
By order of the Board of Managers of
the Marine and City Bofpitals.
WILLIAM JONES, Preftdent.
Atted,
Wm. Penrose, Clerk prottm.
TENTS.
By Dirtßion of the General Board of Guardi
ans
THE Public are informed that Tents
are now erected near the Banks of Schuyl
, kill and that it will be neceflary for any
person or family, who wi(h to r move there,
to produce a recommendation from 'forne
refpe&able Citizens t« either of the follow
ing Committee. >
Peter Mierclen, No. 37, Shippcnflrecl.
Isaac Price No. 79, Marietjlreet.
| James• Otdden, corner of 6th Market /I.
Jthn Kehr, No. 426, North Thirdft reel.
Phildelaphia, Aug. 24, 1798.
[■ The Committee who have charge of thcTen's
r will be much obliged to such of their fellow
citizens, who may have any draw todifpofe of,
1 if they will l>e kind enough to fend it to the
Tents, on the Commons near the Powder House
as the fame is much wanted to make the fixa
tion of the Poor comfortable.
By order of the Committee,
PETER MIEKCKEN, chairman.
DONATIONS,
c Received at the Tents near Schuylkill, far the
; use of the- Poor.
■ Sept. I. One tierce < f Rice from Meflrs.
5 Nathan and David Sellers.
' One cart load of Straw from Mr. Henry
Young of Moyamenfi' g.
• One cart load of Straw lrom an unknown
person.
, f O e barrel of F(h from Mr. John Coyle.
By order of the Committee,
PETE:' MIERCKEN. Chairman.
Sept. 3.
City hospital Report from Ist to 2 J
September.
dmitted.
Cornelius Crnif Penn street, below South.
P.ggv Yocum. 51 h street, between Market
& Arfli.
Mary Cort, No. 171, south Front street.
J hn Brady, Chrt'llian street, between Se
cond,& Qu' e".
Wm. Burk, No. 39 Race street.
Mi. Stewart. No. 252, north Front street.
( harles Stewart, above Kensington bridge.
Michael Tarman. No. JO, Almond street.
Mrs Nelson.No. 81, Chi illian street.
Mr. Ho"a ', No. 262 south Front street.
Betsey Puk, v o. Walnut street.
Thomas Maffat, No. 41 south Fourth street. 1
Jno. C eamor. No, 49, north Front flreet.
Nancy Holland, 7vi o tt n.
I oily Fiftur, jNo.B. Vernon street. <
Hannah Wilds Front near Catharine street. |
Thos. Addifon, Pennsylvania Hospital, !
Peter Brown Crooked Billet wharf.
John ShtMdi, taken in the street.
Catherine Janes, from the gate of rennfyl- (
vania Hospital.
Mary Martin ' hird street btlow German. ,
John Cufliin, No. 28, Gunkle Itrcet. I
Died finee la/} report• 1
Betsey Dermot admitted without a pulse. 4
Thomas M'Gavin.
Henry Prederfe, 3 days ill previous to ad.
Mark Ward, 5 do. do. do.
John Cunningham, 2 do. do. do.
Mary Evitt, 3 do. do.
Mafly M ; Gill, 2 do. do. do.
Discharged cured. !
Elizabeth Cook. I
Remaining in theH fpital 95, 31 of whom
are on the recovery.
Interred in Hospital Ground. t
F-oin City Hospital 7
City and Liberties 10
Total 17.
PHILIP S. PHY SICK.
SAMUEL COOPER.
JAMES T lOMPSON, Steward.
By order of the Board of Managers,
Wm. JONES, Prefulent.
Atlejl Isaac Price, Clerk, Pro tem.
City Hospital Report from 2d. to 3d,
September.
Admitted.
John Clarkhatn, 101, W at erftt.
Catharitie Leonard Dock, near Second ft.
Aau Magarvey, 91, Walnut ftt.
Jami Bnlkaux, Fourth, between V.ne and
Callowhill ftieets.
Mary Bulleanx,' do. do.
Moses Clark, South, below Penn !lt.
Charles , Front tear Love lane. ■'
Daniel Bofhel, ship L^nox.
DiedJince lajl report.
CharlesO'Connell, ill 3 days previous to ad.
Chas. Stewart, 4 do.
Patrick Q*in, 5 do.
Sarah Watkins, ' 2 do.
Lvdia Wells, 3 do.
Cathar ne B.efoy, 2 Ho.
Moses Clark, 12 hours after admiflion.
i j„i._ ctarKiiam, o>uu 6 t.. lutkMlitu. :»
6 hours.
John Bates, admitted 3d day of his illness.
Discharged, cured,
James Wilson Abraham Pye
Michael Cooper Thrmas Wade
James Boyle Joseph Lichelety
1 James Frazier Johß Learfon
John Henderfon Latitia Murray
Interred iu the City Hospital Bury'mg Ground
fmce lall report-
From the City Hospital 9
City and Suburbs 19
Total 28
Remaining in the Hospital, S4 25 of whom
are on the recovery,
PHILIP S. PHYSIC K,
SAMUEI^COOPER,
James Thompson. Steward.
By order of the board of Managers,
Wm. JONES, Prelident.
Attefl Wm. Penrose Clerk, Pro tem.
ONE HUNDRED AND THIRTY I
new cases of the prevailing fever, reported
by 19 Physicians, for the last 48 hours.
Buried in the several Church burying
grounds, exclusive of those at the Hospital
for the 48 hours ending at 8 o'clock last e
vening—32 adulti—ll children.
DlED—YdUrday morning, Do£tor Samuel
Bowrs Sayre, one of the. Physicians lately ap
pointsd by the Board of Health, to attend in the
Northern Liberies.
W;.elely Magazine.
mas Hammet, of the house of Shaw & Hamnaer.
Gn Satuiday afternoon twoboys were flaying in
a boat in a Dock between Arch and l<ace flrcets.
when one »f them, nine years of age, unfortun
ately fall in and was drowned. His name was Ro
bert Ch'iste, son of Mr. William Chrifle, in
Front ft-eet. We undcrfiand he was a very prom-
child. Every exertion was made to find his
body, but in vain.
APPOINTMENTS —by authority,
For the Marine Corps—Augufl 3d, 1798.
C APT A IMS.
Franklin Wharton, Philadelphia,
. Daniel Carmick, do.
Lemuel Clerk, Massachusetts.
*George Meminger, Phila elphia.
LIEUTENANTS.
John Hall, South-Carolina.
Henry A. Williams, New.York.
Simon W. Geddes, Delaware.
James Talman, New-Jersey.
Reuben Lilley, Massachusetts.
Diamond Colton, do.
r James Weaver, Rhode-Island.
James James, Virginia.
William Cammock, do.
Lemuel Reddick, do.
Jonathan Church, Connecticut.
SECOND LIEUT.
I Dyre Wynkiop, Maryland.
A. thony Gale, Philadelphia.
Robtrt Ka kin, Maryland*
Henry Caldwell, Vermont.
Jofiah Reddick, jua, Virginia.
* Died uguft 31\Jl.
FOR THK GAZE!IE $F TIIE UNITED STATES. |
Mr. Fenno, . '
I find hf si.mc vf your late gjzetre, that thcr*
lias been two meetings of citizens of" Pltiladel- , '
phia, firing thenriftlv.fi Friends to the Conjlitit
lioti and Government of tht United States; unc
in the Ciry and ;Jie othe' at Germant wn,.for
the purpose of forming Ticket for the ensuing
Elections Those Meetings have severally pub
lished their proceed" gs, the results whereof are
Materially different :nd as tio h are of equal
aub iritv and rcfje-ftab i■ t\ , it is impoiible to I
know which has the paramount claim t® public r
attentioa. It. is, not vrty prelent intention .to
animadvert upon the ref|>«£live merits of these
two editions of Tickets, but-to hare thi du- ?
plicate bufmels reduced to forrie p radical form, "
that 'he public mind may know on wh>tt to 8
depend. It is therefore proposed, that a General ei
Alerting (for the two mentioned can haw no ei
pretensions to tb'S chiratfler) of the citizens of f r
the above dtfi ription be {lad in eight or tea c
days hence, at the molt convenient situation, .j
probably that would be in Franks ort, at an early
hour or' the day, in Older that those eitracos ™
who reside at prefmt in the neighliou-ing vil b;
lages of Trentin, Burlington, Briflol, Ac. may oj
have an opportunity of attending or of fending
deputations, for the purpofoof finally de'trmin- as
ing on Tickets as acceptable as possible to th«
whole of the Federal interest. Some ftieh mea
sure appears to be absolutely nccefTary to inlure R 1
unanimity, without which we may really difpair
of success. j,
A FDERALIST. f r
From Claypeole'j American l)ui!f Advertizcr.
' T
Geamantowm, aifl d"iru/l, 170 R.
Messrs Chiypoelr, tr
Having lately read in several Philadelphia d;
papers an extraA of a letter from Kir. William
Wrwd, dated Ali;ezir;«, June 3, irgS, to his
brother at New-York, abusing tin cHara.'icr of
Joseph Yznardi, Esq. ailing conlul foe the .
United States of America at Cadiz and the dif
tricl attached thereto—and having lived some l '
monthst!rider the hofpitaMercofof M r Yznirdi,
which afforded me daily opportunities of wit- n
netting hi» c, ntinual chanty to, and unwearied tl
consular exertions in beha.t of* Aoiericms, fuf
fering by illeg-tl captures and otherwift, and
being lully persuaded that Mr. Yznardi, who is
highly esteemed by :he Spanish merchants as a
man of probity and honour, is a juit and upright 1
charatfer, ami always firadyio assist theeitizens J
of the country he has the honour to represent, n
by advice and other means, lam led to believe, 0
with all deference tp the cha'atfrrof Mr. Wood,
that his letter has been written under wrong 1 .
impreflions; and here Mr. Wood will give ine , '
leave to obl'erve, this is not at all extraordinary, j s
when we recoiled the many envious and delign- i .
ing charadlers, that are perpetually hanging 1
about strangers in that country, for the very a
purpose of deceiving them, which they do not tl
find a difficult talk, particularly when the V
stranger dots not nnderffand the"Spani(h lan- o
guage, which is the cafe with Mr. Wood. tl
. As newspaper publicationi are oftentimes too o
readily believed, I have thought proper to op- tl
pole that tendency in Mr. Wood's, in behalf of
my friend, to whom I shall fend the extrafl
fr m Mr. Wood's letter, and doubt not but he "
will, as foou as possible, enable me, or some other
perf»H to lay before the public a full statement 0
of the tjanfailioßS that have led to these publi
cations; until which time I trust a generous „
public will f'jfpsnd their opinion. Principles
of justice and fiiendfhip being my only motive
for stepping forward in defence of the character -1
of Mr Yznardi, who is not present to speak for J
himfelf, will, I trust, rendy an apology to the n
public for thus intruding upon them unne- r
cenw,,_ . , " r v
CH.VMJLIiK rßiwi:. u
The Printers who have published Mr. Wood's let- 0
ter, are rcquefted to give this a place in their papeis. 1:
e
Agreeable to notification tn several of |l»e a
newspapers of the Ciiy of Philadelphia, fc- '
queftirg a meeting of the merchants, trad- t
ers, mechanics and other citizen , at the c
Union School House in Germantown, oti f
Wedntfday 29th Aiignft. at 4 o'clock P. 3
M. in order to fix on a suitable charaSerto '
be offered at the ensuing eleftion to repre- (
sent the City of Philadelphia in Congress, j
in the vacancy occasioned by the decease of t
John Swanwick, Esq. and also in the' next
Congress—A senator, to represent in the
state senate, the city of Philadelphia and
County of Delaware—and fix persons to re
present the city in the house of aflembly.— '
A numerous and refpr&able body of the |
freemen of be city sttenaed. The bufi
ncf» of .the I 'meeting being opened, a letter
from captain Jofcpb Authpny, addrefled to
the chairman of the meeting was read, ex
prefling a crpinion on 'the necessity
of uniting the intercft of the friends of the
constitution and government in the choice
of their representative,that he conceived Mr
Robert Wain well quil fied for a feat in
Congress, and folicjtmg his fellow-citizens
■ that his name «nay not be offered in compe
' tition with that gentleman, who has h's ful
concurrence and approbation.
ROBERT WALN,
was nominated and unanimously carried as
■ the Candidate for Cong ess.
FRANCIS GURNEY,
1 as state Senator for the dillrift compoled of
the City and County of Philadelphia and
. County of Delawar#; and as members to re
-1 present the City in assembly
Jacob Hillzheimer,
s Lawrence Seciel,
Andrew Bayard,
William Hall, printer.
Samuel IV. Ft/her,
John Clement Stacker.
The queftien being put, will this meeting
support the foregoing ticket ? it was unani
mously agreed to, and it was a'fo recom
mended to the freemen of the City of Phi
ladelphia attached to the federal government
for their support, and to those of the Coun
ty of Philadelphia and County of Delaware
in support of the Senator.
Ordered, that the minotesofthe meeting,
signed by the chairiian a. d fetretary, be
publiflv d in tfir'rteu fpapet s of the City, for
the general information of the eleftots.
LEVI HOLLI.- GSWORTH,
Chairman.
Daniel Smith, Secretary.
Germanto-wn, 29th Augujl, t 798.
0" The Health Otbce is kept open night and
day, at the City Hall. «here every nrcefTary
convenience is procured for removing the fii k
and burying the dead.
WILLIAM ALIEN
,£5" Tho r e Cilizens who have LINEN tr
spat e will render a public let * ice l>y fen int: t
I to the City Hall, for thf use of the City Hospital
| We hear that a great R' hhenr hns l>.-ea
committed on the .Bank of
It Is f iid to t!hf amount' cf One Hlfcidrcd
and Fifty Tlioufand Dollars.
gazette marine list.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
rn *. at New Caille the armed Mir.
Maximilian, White, 21 day-- from La Gui«
ra. Left there the (hip Mal-gaietta New
York to fail for Philadelphia i' t days, and
a brig so; Baltimore in j days. On the 21 ft
i" lat. 29, the Maximilian was e-hafed for
8 hours by two (hips and a bn'jj hut ou:fail
ed them—two days before capt. White fail
ed a Danish fchr, of 10 guns and 1$ men,
from Barcelona with a cargo of fl .ur, wa»
captured off the harbour of La Guira by a
British fch. privateer of 10 guns and fttil of
men, bpl _ngim> to Tortula, ant} commanded
by ■ aptain William s, after a fevcre ariiori
of one hour and a half. .
American produce nt La Guira plenty
and low. ,
Arrived at Wilmington, f c J, r j ohn( D
get, 11 days from Boston.
The fiow Abigail from JJelfaft—-Auguft
3, fp. ice the Hi crnia, Siritli, out 8 days
from Burton to London—.also, the Thoma'-,
H>ifT y, 8 days from Norfolk to London,
a L >uifa, Lover, from New-York to
London—2lft spoke the (loop John, Thirf.
tou, fiom Newport to Barbadoes, ont 13
days-—all well.
A (hip from Hamburgh, is in the river.
The frigate United States and fbop of
war Delaware, were spoke with in lat. 32,
long. j&, ten days from Button, bound to
the Weft-Indies.
The brig Eliia, V.mghan. and the fchoo
ner FredericklWg packet, Bmdcr, both of
this p rt, are fafe arrived at Gibraltar.
Pennsylvania Hospital,
Nnr 9- m f > *798.
C P'rfon w:tl> an irf -W riicafe, J„ b „
aJm,ltcd this , U i-.hcrefore ear
neliiy recommended to the litfccns, not to fend
or - nng any such yi tient to the gate, who ,s ill'
: vlth f , ke prevailing fever. Several ( .erfon< hiving
been sent here improperly, is the reason of ~ivmt
this caution. °
By Order of the ")
Sitting Managers, J HIGGI>JS,.?.'eujV.
O" I'he Inhabitants of the City
and County of Philadelphia are hereby notis d
that the REGIS EH . 1 - O FICE for the Probate of
Wills, &e. for the f. I.i C y and County, will be
opened at the house of jv» ft«r, at Fr.nkforda
the 4th of September iutt. from nine till three
o'clock, and on every Turf.lay following, dunn*
the present prevail ng fever i. Philadelphia
G; ORGfi CAMPBILL, Regifterl
September 3 ro , w
Wanted—\ Boy to attend an
Office, fituatcd in a healthy part of the city.
Enquire at No. 21, North Seventh street.
September 3
For Sale at Public Auction,
ON THE PREMISES,
FOUR LO rs on Harper and Keith's wharf, in
Alexandria, on the a6th day of OiSlober
next, if not fold at private sale before that time.
One of th. fe lots is near the end of the wharf,
f cct b , r y n " d which the water istwo fathoms
out the water is four fathoms and grows deeper
.until it comer to the channel, which is afcoat sev
enty feet from the end of the what. 1 here is
as much dirt belonging to the tank as will level
ti c wharf, which may want railing about a foot
neat the end. There is in this sale an half acre 1m
very fit for a tavern ; it is wall warered, and an ex
cellent itand for that business. This property will
be fold for ready money, and al ogerheror lepar
are, as may bed suit the purchaser ; it lays on the
lower fide of Alexandria, which is now improving
very fall A Iketch of rhe ground may b fien in
tb« birds of the Printer hereo r . For terms at
privite sale, apyly to Wm Hartsmskne, or t»
the fubleriber, inAlexandri.t
JOHN HARPER.'
September 3 lawßw
Public Notice is hereby Given,
THAT the Bank of Pe.infy.vania wi I ho
k'pt open for ordinary business from nine to twelv«
o'ulock in the morning during the.prevalence of
! the prefnt fever in this city.
Byordernl the Board.
JONATHAN SMITH, Cajlier.
1 Philad evember I, 1798.
FLOUR FOR SALE
By the Subfcrib rs.
Deliverable at any of li e ports o« the Dela>
ware—who have also on hand at their (lores, a
quantity of Bar Iron, Polk and Corn—Letters by
1 : the post will be attended to.
' Levi Hollingsworth & Son.
• augult sB. dtf
FOR SALE—bt
JAMES JACKS,
g No. 184* Market one door below the Pre*
fident*«,
Gilt, plated and steel mounted horfe
£ men Swords
. Gilt an-.l plated mounted Hangers and Cut and
' Thru (Is
• Silver and gilt anounted Dress Swords and Dirks
Morocca Sword Belts and (leel Hooks
Rich gold and silver Epaulets and fipaiigles
Gold and silver I.aces, Cords and Threads
Agri>at variety of double and single barrelled F»wl«
ing Piec« f with silver and Heel mounting
Silver and (Iscl mounted douMe and Angle barrslU
ed Holllcr ('idols
Ootible and fiugle barrelled Packet Piflols with
hayorets
s \ large alTortment of japanned Tea Travs and
Waiters, of u fuptrior quality
• Tortoilhclls Combs and fteet Ivory
BeR warraiited Razors
t Sport linen's a'ld Penknives, and fine ScilTori
G Id and silver Fruit Knives
Ship and pocket Spy GialTes
e Surveyor'* Conipalles and Theodolites
Mathematical Inflrnrnemsani! Opera Glades
A few slegant plated and j',|>anaed patent Lamp*
e German Fl»te>, plain, and Pian® Fortea
I OrgaoiteJ I'iar.o Forte
' Billiard Balls and Dice
Japanned tea andcoflee I T rn«
Mahogi.ny and fattin wood knife andfpeon Oafei,
with Knives complete
A large affurtmert of Pocket Books, with gold
and silver mountii.g
Backgammon Tables and pn-taMe Writii g Deft,
i( ' Elegant glass Lu.'tns and Chimney Oruaniett
■y Imperial Pain ings
k With an extenfivs alTortment of Jewelry. Ster.
linu V ate. Plated Goods, and Watchesat.d Clocks,
which will be lold at the mod rti'uced prices,
tr wholesale or retail, for cafii or the usual credit.
t N. B. W ll dies and Plat* Cichangesi.
al a"S u(l 1 " wf4WLuiilU for sale by private Coiitracl,
Proposals will be received, by the inn criber.
Until the firit day of S:rrember next, tor ihe
purchase of any c f the following very valuable
trails of land with their improvements.
In the State ef New-York,
No. J: Two lots of ground situate in the
county of Albany in the town called Lanfing
burgh, and diltinguilhed or known on a map of
laid town by the names of No. 71 and yt.
2. Two traits of land situate in the town »1
West-Chester, the one of them near Ofiver De
lmcy's, John Cox's and John Palmer's land, ad
joining Brouhs River, the othur of them near
Devilard's fnuff mill, Delancy's land and ad
joining Brouh's river the whole containing about
84 acres.
3. A trad! of land situate in the county of
VVeft-Chefler, on the road from Kings-Bridge
to Delancy's Mills containing about acres.
4 A trail of land situate in Montgomery
ounty, being a part of the trait railed Jcffup's
nrchafe arid known and diftingui!hed in a divi
on of the said purc'nafe into townlhipsby being
art of township No. 4. beginning at the S. \V.
oiinds of said purchase and at the foutherly,cor
ner of said township containing by estimation
about 5611 aces. ,
5. A tra !t of land situate in the county of
Montgomery, afcrefaid, being also a par-t of
JefTup's purchase and known and diftinguilhed
in divifionof the said purchase into townfaips,
by being pirt of towhfnip No. 31 beginning at
S. W. bounds of said township at thediftarice of
461 chains and jo links from the inoft southerly
corner thereof.
6. A trail of land situate In U'fter county,
being part of the trail of l;iitfl known by the
name of th.; GreatofHafden'uatghs patent,con
taining about 6000 aires.
7. A trail of land situate in the county of
Ullter aforelaid on the N. E. fide of the river
Delaware, being also 1 part of the land former
y granted to Johannes Hardenlnugh and others
commonly known by ihe name of the Green
patent it being a part of a great lot No. x. at
the general partiti-n of said patent which came
to the share of Thomas Newham one of the
proprietors, and is kn6wH and diftinjsuilherl on
the mass of the sub division tharsof made by
Charles Webb, surveyor in the year 1751 by
lot No. 60 ; this land runs some ditlance on the
river Delaware and contains aboet 3-57 acres.
8. A trail of land in the county of Ulster a
forefaid in thefontli tier of lots in the Hardtn
burgh patent heing the lot No. 12, containing
about 12,6.50 acres excrptifig thcrecut 320 acres
her - "fore :;rar.t by Uobert R. Livipgfton to
Nathaniel Sichfl.
9. A trail of land situate in the county of Ul
ster, beginning on the Papekunk river, and ad
joining toe 14th monument in the general divi
sion of the patent, containing
about 3000 acres.
10. Two equal undivided seventh parts of two
several parcels of lands fitnate in the townships
sos Chemung in '.lie cdunty of Tioga on the S.
\Y. fide of TitiSa fiver, the fame being part of
a trail of about 2c,occ acres, theletwofeventh#
contain about 5763 actes.
11. Oni» equal and undivided seventh part of
the said icjooo acre trail in Tioga county being
about 2,886 acres.
12. One equal and undivided seventh part of
said 2-5,000 acre tract in Tioga county being al
o about 2,886 acres.
In the State of Maryland.
1-,. A tr»a of land jnow called Bayley's pur
chase in Prince G urge's county, near to a bay
®r enve called, Axocoftin ri ir, containing about
1212 icres of prime land.
14. A toil of land called Fortune Enlarged,
y >li 3^" C?vieors'cminty oft
the fi.i'fteirfv branch of the Potomack, containing
about j 16 acres.
ij. A tract of land with the house and im
provement called Arcn, lying on theealtern
briftcti of the river Potomack, opposite to the
citv of Wafhirigtpu tn Prince George's county
containing about 375 acres. -
16. A wait of land wtih the houses, mills,
ether buildings and improvements lying near
Fort Cumberland in the county of Washington
containing about 2088 acres.
17. A trail of land situate in the county of
Walhingtoi», adjoining to Fort Cumberland,
containing 400 acres or thereabouts.
jB. One undivided moiety of a trail of land
iii Allegany county, called spruce l'pring, the
whole «'! which contains about 120 acres, also
one undivided, moiety of 2315 trails or lots of
ground, each of which contains about 50 acres,
and are numbered from 500 to 799 inclusive,
0:1 itting and excepting three lots which are dif
tinguilhed by the numbers 661, 662 and 684 all
which said lands adjoin.
In the State of Virginia-
A trail of Meadow land with eotriiderable
improvements, lying on Hunter's creek,Dorrell's
creek, Muddy creek and the river Fotomack ;
and adjoining the city of Alexandria containing
by patent 295 acres.
Edward Fox, auAloneer.
Philadelphia, June e,th, 1798- 2aw
advertisement.
WHEREAS David and John Graham, late
of the city of Philadelphia, merchants,
have assigned ever all their Glfcils, real a-ad per
sonal, to the fubferibers, for the benefit of their
creditors—
Notice is hereby given,
To all persons who arc indebted to said estate,
that they are required to make immediate payment
o. their refpeilive debts to the afiignets at their of
fice No. 62 Dock-llreet. In failureiwhereof,legal
mcafures will be taken for the recovery of such as
are not immediately discharged.
SIMON WALKER, Assignees of
CHARLES GILCHRIST, C DAVID & John
GEORGE HUMPHREYS, j Graham.
July 7. tthiics ifep.
~~ FOR SALE.
A THREE Story Brick Hsufe, on the north
fide of Spruce-street near Second-fireet,
adjoining the wall of Mr. Jones's garden and
:>.merlv occupied by David Lenox, efq.—This
huiife is incompleat repair with back buildings,
,011 lifting of a Piazza, Kitchen and ahmdfome
Dining l*oom over the Kitchen.
Asaify Person inclined to psrehafe wjTl view
\hepremif«,a rwore particular Uefcription is con
fide red unnecelfary.
The terms of payment will be one third cafli,
cue third in 6 months and the remainder in 12
months with interell. For further information,
Enquire of JOHN CRAIG,
No. 12 Dock-flreet.
r-iav, t 6 $
1 he Poll-Office will be mov
cd on Monday the 13th instant, at one o'cjock
!•, M. to the North-lide of Market-street, the
f.iil house Well of Eleventh street, where Mer
tjianis and others are requtfted to fend for their
le'.tcrs ; as the Letter-carriers will be flopped
carrying lettersc-ut, after that time.
' o.'t C'/Jire, PhiloJilph'ra, august 11.
A Houl'e to Jet,
Fourth, street, next door to the Indian Queen
Enquire of Robert Smi i u, No. jB, South Fiout
i x-l. § July i 5
Territory of the 'Jnuc/i Sidtcs nortb-wi-st of lb-
Kii-er Obi j.
Washington Ct-unty, IT.
ri-IEREAu a Writ 1 f At'aehment halh if
V V sued out of the court of Comm oo Picas
in said eorjr,ty, direiled to the Sl enfT of faiJ
coenty, retainable to June term 17971 l ''e
fuitof G)'iihu Greene, esq. against Goods
and Cha.tels, Land«, Tenement', Rights
and Credits of isa Barret, f r Seventy D°"ars
j 'nd'wbt! eif, the said Sheriff hath by virtue of
said Writ attached a Lot of Land lying i n I'ald
county, containing one hundred acres, th e pro
perty of the 1 efendant. NOTICE is the r etore
given to the said Asa Barret that ur.lefs he doth
appear and give Special Bail to the Ail''
Judjrmenf will be entered by Default, and the
land above-mentioned will be fold as the 1-w
dircils. Benjamin Ives Gi/man,
frothonotary.
Marietta, July 3rtb, -798. 2aw^w
"WILIJAM Ivl'LAwlj
SADLER & HsIRNESK MAKER,
HAS Kcinoved to the Cortier of Chefnut
and Fweitth-jlreete, on the Commons,
where he will receive and execute the orders of
his friends and wholtfale enftomers, with tibial
attentton Sc txpedi'ion during the prevalence of
the present Epidemic, wheie it has not made its
appearance this season, nor during any of the
years past.
aiK'uft 25
" FOR SALE, ~—
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS, NO. I L F.V EN T H-ST RFE T,
18 Bags Fresh Cloves.
Willing sis' Francis.
J"" eg - _dtf
, DUTX on
Notice is hereby given,
THAT agieeably to an ail of Congress of the
United States of America, passed at Phila
delphia ths 28th day of May, 1796, laying du
ties on carriages for the conveyance of persons, and
repealing the former ails for that purpofe—Tha;
there (hall be levied,'tolleiled and paid, upon all
carriages for the conveyance of persons, which
shall be kept by or for any person, for his or her
own use, or to Ist out to hire, or for the convey
ing 01' paflcngers, the several duties and rates fol
lowing, viz. do „ 6 _
For and upon every coach 1 s
upon every chariot 12
upon every post chariot 1-3. 1
upon every po.l chaise j ;
uponeveryphaton, with or without top o |
upon every coachee
upon other carriages, having pannel")
work above, with blinds, glasses, ( 9
or curtains \
upon four-wheel carriage?, having - )
frame polls and tops, with (tee) i 6
springs .
upon four-wheel top carriages, with ">
wooden or iron springs 011 jacks j 3
upon curricles with tops 3
upon chaiica with tops
iipon chain with tops
upon sulkies with t»ps 3
upon other rwo wbvel top carriages 3
«pon two wheel Carriages wi;h steel")
or iron springs f 3
For and upon all otner two wheel carriages 2
upon every four wheeled earriage,")
having framed ports and tops, C %
and resting upon wooden spars )
The Colleilarof the revenue ot the firft division
of the firft fmvey of the diftridt of Pennsylvania
will attend dsdy until the 30th day of September
next, lor the purpefe of rcceiviug the duties on
c*m« at Gcrtvantow,. cn the Main street, n
little above tlr l, g „ „{ the Ring of Prufiia.
whji-h -ill v'-Cc—- p-T-ir.,l iutn carriages are
uefired to t:k e notice.
Notice is also given,
To all retail tfeaiersln vyinesjnd foreign distilled
l; irituous liquors, that licwifes will be granted to
re't a mir^ lilCnCe for carr y' n g on the business of
ictailing of win s m a tefs quantity, or in less
uan titles, than 30 gillom,— and one licence for
•trying on the hufinTs of retailing fpirituoui li
quors ,11 less quantities than twenty gdlons, at the
fame time and at the fame place, by
~ JAMES ASH,
Colie&or of the ift division of the ifl
Ofßrr nf lnf"" if d,(lrii2 of Peiinfylvania.
Olnce of lnfpcition at Germantown, 7
22d AuguS, 1798. j
at 111 office 7 denomin3t,on ef to be had
C 5 Ihe Stamp Press is removed'
'Z! ht , olr " e °f Infpeilion in Germantown, on the
Ptuffi ' reet L 3 a6ove the fi s n of the King ol
Pruffia,-where attendance will be given for the
fcmned on t,o T wi(ha ">' ''nlr-ments
august 22 yS ' ThUd ' dayS a,,d S""days.
peteOlight
in !hfi r T I , CVCd I hi L SCoUnt!ng^Toufe to his House
m the Northern Libatties near Nice Town, Ger
mantown road.
august 21. tf
Mr.XENIZ,
Teacher of the Piano Forte,
T) ESPECTFULLY offers his services to at
i Vtend his Icholars and others at Germantown
mould as many as Twelve request his attend
ance he will wait on them immediately.— Please
to feliredl to the Printer of the Gazette of the
United States,
august 20 * rw
03" Any perl'on in the neighbouTT
nood of Germantown defirousof cffeCfing Infuran ■
the Office of the Insurance Company of the
Weft Corner of Ninth and Market ftraets, mav
know the terms by leaving an enquiry at the house
of SamufJ 'V.Filher, Esq. in Germantown.
au g ult 1 ' r §TW
Philadelphia, 'June 1798.
I üblic Notice is Hereby Given
7DURSUANT to rile scl of Congress, 'passed
A on the »2<h day of June 1798, entitled,
an ail refpeiling Loan Office and final fettle
meat certificates, Indents »f interell, and the
unfunded or registered debt credited in the
■books of the Treafufy.''
ill. That on the application of the creditors
refpeilively, or their legal attornies at any time
alter the last day of December in the present
year, the principal sums of the unfunded or re
giitered debt of the United States credited on
the books of the treasury, or commiflioners of
Loans will be reimbursed at <he Creaftirv of the
United States.
2d, That interell upon the unfunded or re
gistered debts aforefaid will cease from and af
ter the last day of December in the present year.
3d. That the creditors refpeilively wii'l be
entitled 011 requisition to reocive from th- pro
per officers ol the treasury, certificates, f fund
ed three per cent stock, eqi«l to the arrearages
ot Interell due m the debts aforefaid prior to
the firft day of January, one thonfand leven hun
dred and ninety one.
By order of tbe Board cf Cotnmiffiotiers
of tbe Sinking Fund,
Euivard 'Jones, see'ry
June 30 lav^.
TREASURY DEPAR I MENT,
JO.XI .'7, 1795.
NOTICE IS HBKEBY GIVkM, Tint l.y vir
tue of an ail, pafleu<juri >£ the p-t-feut f f
fion t'f Conerefs, -fa much of aet enti'-.ileij
" An Ad making further j>r..vi.ion for th--' Jay
" port cl public credit, anrf for th« rederrvti :n
11 of the -public debt''—palfed the third day ol
March, one thousand fever hundred tort Dinety
five, as bari froia fetticment or allowance,
Certifkatei, commonly called Loan Office and
linal settlement and Indents of In
terests, is suspended until the twvlf-h day of
June, which will be in the year one thousand ieven
hundred and ninety nine,
That on the liquidation and fettlemert of the
said Certificates, and Indents of Interel), nt the
Treasury, the Creditors will lie entitled to receive
Certificates of funded Three Per Ceiir.-fitoekeqtial
to the amount of the said Indents, and the arrear
ages of i'ntertfi. due on their said Certificates, prior
to firil day of January one thonlind lcveu
hundred aad ninety ouc.
That the principal funis of the kid I.oan Office
and fhial irttlemeiitC rnpeates, with the intcrefr
thereon, -since the fir (I d,n ol January, one thou,
land seven hundred and ninety one. will he di)'-
clurged after liquidation .>.t the Treasury, by tile
paymant oi intei't:ft>nd n-irnburf,merit of princi
pal, equal to the fiwnn whitli would have been
payable thereon, if t!'e said Certificate* had been
fubfertbod, pursuant to the Acts making provision
for the debts of the United States, contracted dur
ing the late war, and by the payment of other
funis, equal to the market v due of the remaining
Stock, which would hive been created by fucii
fu-bferiptions asalorefaid, which market value will
be determined by the Comptroller of theTreafury.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of tve 'Treasury
june 28 " lawtt
WW LANDING,
From on board the brig Amiable Matilda, from
Bourdeaux, and-for sale by the subscriber,
88 cafksCLARET
IT, do. do of a fuprrior quality
2 trunks green PARASOLS.
Thomas Alurgalroyd,
No. ir, Walnut-street.
WHO HAS 9N HAND,
White Wine in half Caiks
Sweet Oil of a superior quaWty^fn
boxes and baskets
Lunelle "J to
Sauterne I ! drawback
Irilh Market > WINES in Cases
Macarty and 1
Medoc J J
Rota Wine in hhds.
Pimento in bags.
"tir ?.?■ eotf
To be Sold,
An elegant and' convenient House,
In Cb 'f.iut Jlrect, next door to the Batik of tCortb Ameirici.
•THE Let is thirty by one huncred arid seventy
.eight. The House has been thoroughly repaired
withnf a fewmonths. Apply to the Printer.
august 8 §
Mills, Portage, See.
to RE LEASED FOR A TERM OF TEARS.
TO be leafed, for a term not lefsthan three,
nor more than seven years, a VALUABLE
PROPFRTY at the Seneca-Falls, in the county of
Onondajjo,a nd ilate of New-York, on the Banks
of the Seneca-river, two miles weft of the Cayuga
fcrry, and eleven miles east of Geneva.
This eftabli'.Dment consists of an excellent grift
mill, saw mill, dwelling house, liarn, and a port
age or carrying place, with between thirty and
forty acres of land, under good improvement, and
as much morein the vicinity, as maybe required
for future improvement.
The grit 4 --—'n i- ■ -hsndfi j .veil fin
'tea ntßHmg, of 50 by 30 feet, 3 ftorieshifrii
and furnifiied with a run of excellent Burr stones
and another of Efopus'.ftones, of the bell quality
and the moil approved boalts, Sec. calculated to
make all the different qualities of flour for expor
tation or for home consumption : It is acceflible by
water from every part of the Cayuga lake and Sc
neca-river, as well as from the Seneca-lake and
from its situation, commands a veryextenfive and
encreafing caftom -. The flream on which it Hands,
being the outlet of the Seneca-lake, the mill cau
never lie in want of water ; and a-s it has been kept
working during the fevtreft feafor. of the last win
ter , it is not liable to be impeded by froft :
The saw mill is also new, situated on the fame
ftrcam, now furnifhed with an ample (lock of
logs, of which a supply may at all times be pro
cured by land or water, of the best quality :
The dwelling house is well calculated for theufe
of the miller, is new, and fufficiently laige : The
barn is about 40 feet square, and entirely new :
The portage is 3-*t!is of a mile in length, along
the Seneca-falls—over which were palled in the
last year, nearly two hundred boats with their
contents ; this objed is already produftive of a
handsome income, which n-.uft be increasing and
permanent:
Among the many advantages of thisfituntion,
myft be numbered the fertility of thefurrounding
country —being the btft improved part of the coun
ty of Onondaga—the concentration of inter
course by land and water, the Geneffce ftateroad
pafling through it, as well as all water carriage ro
Geneva, and the counties of Ontario and Steulicn';
which lenders it a mo(l eligible (land for a Store or
Tavern—The river and lakes abound in fi(h and
fowl, and the country with deer and other game.
Besides the mills already ereiSed at this place, it
iscalculated for any additional water works that
may be found neceffiry—Fulling mill, batk mill
tannery, forges, &c. -may be ere&ed at a small ex
pence—lron ore may be brought in boats(rom the
Cayuga lake ; and it is theught to abound in the
neighborhood.
The (lock on hand w : llbe fold to the lcfTee, and
utenfils, fmhh's forge, See. may be fold
or let the premises.
If a purchase (hould offer for the whole or an
undivided part of the premises it will be fold.
Fsr terms of sale or lease, apply ta mr. Wtt
helmus Mynderse, at theSsnec-i falls, or to the
subscriber, at Scheneetady.
STEPHEN N. BAYARD.
June 2aw2m
Federal Mills,
A DJOININO Georgetown, and the City of
Walhington, will be offered at Public Sale,
on the 10th day of September n«xt, at the .Union
Tavern, if not previously fold at Private sale.
Those mills in point of situation for bafinefsand
natural advantages are generally admitted to be
equal to any in America. The Merchant Mill is
a large brick houie, eighty feet by fifty, almost
new, in which are ere&ed four pair of Burr mill
stones with elevators, hopperboys and bolting
cloths, completely Snilhed and conftruclcd in such
a manner that the whole of the mills may manu
facture flour at the fame time. The country mi|l
which is ereiled near the other, is entirely new,
a (Irong (lone building, containing one jrair of
stones, and built in such a manner that the second
pair may be put up with little cxpence. This mill
is conveniently finiflied, and calculated to carry on
cxtenfively, country work, of which it gets a con
(liiit supply. There is belonging to thefaid mills
27J- acr«s of land, the whole of which will be
fold with the mills.
One third of the purchase money will be requir
ed ill sixty days from the day of sale, and Br the
balance a liberal credit will be given. Further
particulars will be mzdi known on the day of sale.
JOSEPH E. ROWLEs,
Surviving partner of
JOSEPH E. ROWLES Co.
Georgetown, july 13. »3—jawts
I AN ACT
j ior i' relief of tie Refugees ft o-n the Britifb
o f i.. r/tu .!/ and Pi j% : ti - Scotia •
; r( . j > E i.' by the Senate and House
13 qf Ki/ti-rfeutatrvrs of the UniteJ
Slnits of America, in Congrifs fijfembled, 1 hat
to '.he claims or certain ccrfons claiming
lami«uiidf the rvlolnVf-H'i 1 t Congrt!?, of the
twfiitj -third of ipril, cue thotilam! seven hun
dred and eighty-three, ;rd the thirteenth of
Apiil, one thousand seven hundred and eighty
five, as refugees from the Britilh provinces of
Canada and Nora-Scotia, the Secrt-'tary for the
Department of V* tr, be, and is hereby autho
rized and (lireiHed to give notice in one or more
of the public papers of each of the States of
Vermont, Mafi'aehufctts, New-York, New-
Hair.plhire and I'ennfylvania, to all pertons hav
ing claims under the fiid resolutions, to trans
mit to the War-office, within two- years after
the patungflf this ad!, a jtill and true account
of th*ir clairiis to the bounty pf:Ceatri!s.
Stc. 1. And b- it father enu" ed, That no
other persons (hallLe etiti<!td to the benefit of the
provisions of this as, than those df the f llow
ing descriptions, or their widous'ind heirs, viz.
First, thpSe heads of families, ami single per
sona, not members of any fuel) farc/iiies, who
were refideilts in one of the provinces afore/aid,
prior to the fourth day of July, one thousand
liven hnndnxl and seventy-si*, and who aban
doned their Icltlements, in consequence of hav
ing given aid w the United Colonies or States,
in the revolutionary War agai-1! Great-Britain,
or with intention to give such aid, and continu
ed in the TTtji:td States °r in their service, dur
ing the said wjr, and did not return to reside in
the dominions of the king of Great-Britain,
prior to the twenty-fifth of November, one
tlioufiad seven hundred and eighty-three. Se
condly, the widow* and heirs of all such per
ftms as were atftual rsfidents, as aforefaid, who
abandoned their fettletfients, as aforefaid, »nd
died within the United States, or in their ser
vice during the said war : and thirdly, all per
sons who were members of families at thetime
of their coming into the United State*, and who
during the war, entered into their fervicc.
Sec. 3. And be it further enaHed, That the
pro"t of the several circum'bnces necefTary to
entitle the applicants to the benefits of this ail,
may be taken before a judge of the l'upreme or
drllriiSt court of the United States, or a judge
of the supreme *r superior court, or the fir It jt»f
ticeorfirft jidige ef the court of common pleas
or county court of any State.
Sec. 4. And be it further ennd.cd, That at
the expiration of fifteen months from and after
the palling 6f this afl, and from time to time
thsreafter, it ftiall be the duty of the Secretary
for the Department of War, to lay fu:h evi
dence of claims as he may have received, before
the Secretary ;.ijd Comptroller of the Treasury,
and with them, proceed to exarnine the testi
mony, and give tlieir. judgment what quantity
of land OMght to be allowed to the individual
claimants, in proportion to the degree of their
refpedlive services, facrifices and i'ufTerings, in
confequeace of their attachment to the cause of
the United States j allowing to those of the lirft
class a quantity notejcceedingone thousand acres;
and to tire iaS class, a quantity not exceeding
one hundred, making such intermediate clafles
as the resolutions aforefaid, and distributive juf
lice, mav, in their judgment require, and make
report thereof, to Congress. And in cafe any
such claimant (hall have fuffained such lofijs and
(offerings, or performed such ferviees for the
United States, that he cannot justly be ciafled
in aHy one general class, a leparate report (hall
be made of his circumstances, together with the
quantity of land that ought to be allowed him,
having reference to the ratio : Pro
vided, that in conlii'.crlng whit comperf-tion
ought to he made by virtue of this a<sl, all grants
except military grants, which may have bee,n
made by the United States, or individual States,
(hall be conlidered at the just value thereof, at
the time the fame were made, refpettivelv, ei
ther in vyh-yle or in part, as the cale may be, a
latisfa&ion to those who mav have received the
fame: Provided a/so, that no claim under this'
law, (hall be allignable until after report made
to Congress, a« aforefaid, and until the said j
lands he granted to the persons entitled to the
benefit of this a£l.
Sec. s. Be it further enußed, That all claims
in virtue of said resolutions of Congress, which
(hall not be exhibited a-s aforefaid, within the
time by this adl limited, (hall forever thereafter
he barred.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the Iloufe of Representatives
Til : JEFFERSON,
Viee-P reft dent of the United States,
aid President of the Senate.
Approved, 7; 1798.
JOHN ADAMS,
Prefiient of the United States.
Deposited among the Kolls in the uffice of the
Department of State,
Timothy Pickfring,
Secretary of State.
C 3" Pursuant to the above Aft, No
tice is hereby given to all persons hav
ing claims under the resolutions of Con
gress, of the 23d of April, 1783, and
the 13th of April, 1785, to tranfmitto'
the War-Office within two years after
the passing of the said Aft, viz. the 7th
day of April, 1798, a just and true ac
count of their claims to the bounty of
Congress.
In the proof of Claims, a ftrift atten
tion mu4 be paid to the rcquifitions of
the 2d and 3d Sections of the Aft.
JAMES M'HENRY,
Secretary of IVar.
j"h' 19 jaw6w
LANDING,
At South Street wharf, the cargo of the (hip Con
ne&icut, from Batavia—
About 300 tons of Java Coffee,
ofthegtowth of 17942 nd 17 95
60 tons ot Java Sugar,
In cannillers—!or sale by
fSTE/i HLIGHT,
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SAI.E,
150 hhds. choice Jamaica Sugars
Jamaica rum in hhds
brandy ill aud 41b ppoof in pigei, hhds.
and quarter ciflrs
Madeira in pipsa
Old Batavia Arrack
jidv i <5
This Day is Publilhed,
ANDFORSALEBVI.FENMO, liq.CaiU'UT-ilßuj
AN ADDRESS
To the People of Maryland,
ON the origin, progress and prci. n; ti ;te of
Ffepch aggrdlior., with a (ketch of the infamous
attempts to degrade the Government ji the United
Stale!,and fame refjeef io-is on the -la' - pfoceedii...
in Coagrefs; written the lirt of April l:i th<- i-re
fentyear, by a Metuh.-r of the Howie of Keprefco
tatives. § jum 11
»3—^awtii
HAPPT DISCCVERY.
A certain Cure for ihil a/arming and dreadful Dj/irifrr,
The Yellow Fever,
As nvell as any ether tbmgertus putrid fever, fever and
ague, an J ether inveterate and complicated diseases, by
the use of the
POUDRE UNIQUE,
WELL known and patented in England, France,
Poland, and all the capital cities in Europe,
where the mod aftonilhing cure? have been effect
ed on pcrfons judged incurable by all physicians.
In aTrcatife printed in London, on the properties
of this* by T. Seymour, M. D. lateChc
mift to hi* Majesty, there are stated two hundred,
cases, where this moil valuable remedy has proved
infallible, in all kind of fevers, pleurisy, Llcody Jlux,
inverate rheutnatifms, Jciatica, apoplexy, patalyjie, yel-
I err jaundice, ringworm, worms in children and in ; row*
pcrfons, whitej, chronical head and flomach aches, hepw
tick and nephretical or flone cholic, the kings cvil t fckrvy
and tit mojl inveterate and complicated venereal disease. It
the best preparative for the fniall pox
ana measles ; ol the greatcft utility for young a?
j well as lor elder ladies ar the critical epoch of their
j life. The tflr-acy of this powder in ltveral of the
j above diseases has been dilcovered by chance, and
so it has been in the yellow fever last year, by Mr.
; Mahy, who cured several by adniiniftcriiijj only
fruo of the said powders, and loft not a tingle pa
tient which he undertook to cure, as proved ami
atteiled by the here annexed certificates, whose ori«'
ginal may be fecn at Andrew Hadfegs umbrella Jhop 9 '
A r <?. 13 r, corner of CheJ,nut and Fourth jlreets % the on-
I ly place where these powders are-to b« had, with
proper directions for the use of them.—Price two
dollars.
The ufefulfief* and certainty of this remedy be
i iag so great for so many dangerous disorders, any
person wilhing to be provided with those powders,
will please to apply very soon, as the quantity at
I hand is rot very large, and it is doubtiul if for a
l®ng time, or if ever any othet genuine will be im
ported, the fccret remaining only in the hands of
the inventor, in Europe, and never, being commit*
; nicated to, or discovered by any othar person.
i N. B In the yellow and putrid fever*, this pow
der must betakew thu iecond, or at baft the third
1 day *
We the fubferibers, durirg the late fickncfs in
; this city, having taken the y ;l!ow fever, applied to
: Mr. Alahy foi his medical afli(lance, we do here
i by certify, that by a certain powder* called the
Poudre Unique, we wwc perfectly recovered, from
the said fatal sickness, and from an ezperi nee of
the happy dfetfs of the above mott valuable medi
cine, consider it our duty to make the fame known,
lor the benefit of our fellow citizens.
Margaret Jones,
My Jus O'Connor,
» Je'ie Turner,
Christen Rebecca Dow,
Catherin Apple,
Ann Grov«r,
William JJills,
David Williams, carpester,
William F Doqaldfon, mast-makes.
Mr. Mahy's well known Plainer, for all kind of
wounds and fores, to be had at the above direc*
tion, No. iji, Cncfnut ftr«et.
an <rlist 8 2awrf
DESERTED,
FROM on board the Ship of war Delaware, ly
ing im fJanralket Road, Joseph Porcer, 5 feet
10 inches high, aged 28, born at Concord, Ches
ter county, Hate of Pennfylvarda, sandy hair and
cum p'exion.
Wm. Moon, agcrl 2.5, 5 feet 10 inches high,
red hair and red complexion, born in Philadelphia
—the only cloaths taken with him is a suit of ma
rine tloathing.
Whoever apprehends the said deserters, shall re
ceive ten dollars for each, by applying to
W. W. BURROWS,
Major of the Marine Corps.
Wants Employment,
A YOUNG MAN, who has leru*d a regu
lar apprenticelhip to the mercantile bnfi
nels in this city, withes to engage in a Couuting
houl'e or office, u rites a good hand and under
stands accounts, can be wejl recommended ar.d
security uiven if required. Enquire at the
oir.ee of this Gazette.
.i»"e 3iwtf
General Foft-Office,
PROPOSALS for carrying the mails of the
United States on the following routes will
4?e received at this office until the lotli day of
■September next inclusive.
1. From Pittfburg P. by Cannonfburg, Walb
ington, Weft-Liberty, Wheeling and Wills
town to Zanes at the mouth of Licking-creek,,
on tVe Mufkingum, eflimated 140 miles.
Leave' Pittfburg every Friday at 2 p. M. and
arrive at Zanes the next Monday by 8 P. M.
Returning—Leave Zanes every Tuesday at j
A. m. and arrive at Pittfburg the next Fridav by
10 A. M.
2. From Zanes, at the mouth of Licking
Creek on the Mufkingum, by Chilicothe and
Maflev's to Mayfville in Kentucky ; estimated
140 miles
Leave Zanes every Tuesday at 5 A. M. and
".rr:ve at M yfville the next Friday by to A. M.
Returning—Leave Msyfville every Friday by
2 P.M. and arrive at Zauesthe next Mondav b/
8 P. M. 7 '
! l e carriage of the mails to commence on the
firft dav of November next and continue until;
the fir it day ot October 1800. Payments will
be made quarterly.
The usual penalties for delayi and failures wilt
be flipulated in the contraifl.'
Joseph Habcrjham,
Pojl-Mrjlcr General.
Philadelphia, Tnly 13, 1798' m&th6w
HEALTH OFFICE. '
flilaJ.'tfilia, ijl A fay, 1798.
Extract of an a& to alter and amend the HtaUl*
Laws of this Commonwealth, passed 4th April
1798.
Sed. 8- A ND '' e !t fur il"-er enaifled by the an
£X tl'.ority a.'orofaid. That every house.
keeper witfiin the city of Philadelphia, the towu
(hips of the Northern Liberties ;uid Moyannnling,
and diltriil of Southwark, within a mila of the It-'
mitsol the city, taking in boarders an ivisg lay fe#
or by land, from any foreign port or place, uml ha
ving any boarder in hisor htr family, ivho lhall be
taken sick o- any dil. afe wlmfoever, between the
firll day of May ahd the firtl day of November in
any year, within twenty day. next sftnr such boar,
der flial! co ne to lodge in his or her houl'e, dial!
within 24 hours next alter jhe knowledga of furh
ficknefj. make report at 'lie Health.OlEce of tht»
name "ffuch sick person, the time of his or her ar.
rival at the house and oi his or her being taken sick,
and of the name and p'rqc of abode of fucb house-!
kt<-p r; whereupon the L'hyficiar. of the Health-
Oiuce lhall fnr hwith visit the patient, and report
tothr ojfice his opinion of the uature of frcli dif.
cafe, that measures ma; be tai;en to prevent the
lpreading rt the-infcwlion ; ami if any houfekeepcr
stall negled to givc information in the manner and
within the time afortfaid, and /hall he thereof con
vidlcd, iii any court of criminal jurisdicftion withm
this upci" indielme .t by vcrdiit
or eonltlhon, he,cr (he l .all forteit andpay a fine
ro the use ol the laid hospital.not less ciuu twenty
aollars, nor mere thir. cut hundred dollar-, to be
impeftfd at the difcreiion cf the court, accotding to
the circumstances ol greater;or lefs aggravation at.
tending eat'i paiticular cafe.
By order ol the lioarj of Health,
\V M,A1,1-fc.N, Health uniccr,
lawjm of the Pur: ul Philadelphia,