ot m Hntfet)#tateo 9 and Pbikdelpbia- Daily Advertiser,
Number 1742.J
For Sale, at the.Stores of the Sub- 1
| fcriberi, on Walnut street Wharf,
i 195 calty- of n: il? afiorred . .
20 bides ef fail canvlfr, from No.-i to 8 C
53 calks yell w ochtfe
i j tierces bottled-porter, 6tot4"doa e«:h
London particular ) Mi , Virl Wines * £
India market )
TenenfTc da. in hojjftieads and pipes '
Old Port do. in bhds.
Empty Claret bnltles _ Si
6 cases of Ginghams, D'mities, MuQinets See. 6
alTorted for the Weft India market
4,' 10, and?inc'n cab'esand io coil#of coriage
Writinjjfiates, iiik Hands and pre lies
20 purcheons Jamaica rum
I bale Teaming twine I
160 bundles ftieatHing paper £
f tJT"2"V. THE BRIG
AMAZON,;
For Sale, cr Charter.
Nicklin & Griffith.
April 7 tuth&f.tf j
I For Norfolk, Peterfburgh and
' Richmond,
_l! The faft failing Schooner
FAVOURITE,
Jv- Wm. W.Weymouth, mafler, -
WILL fail in all next •wcel. For Freight or Pa-f
sage (having excellent acconwfJatinnx J to the Maf~ ]
ter on board, at 'jrjfc <*"d Robert IValn s wb.trf, or to
GEORGE Pf. C7.vfXTF.fi,
No. 166 South From flreet.
afiri! 5 . 3*. 1
POR SALE " 1
;^"™1 Havannah Su s ar
ao6 Kides
Will be landed to morrow* at Wi!lings and Fran
cis's wharf, frona on board the brig A&ive, Wili
iam Williams, mailer.
ofcrrNi*v£ The said Brigfor sale,
And may take in immedi
-oSBSMRy' ">» ,tely after discharged.
Apply to
Jehu Hollingfworth & Co.
march 30. §
This Day will be Landed,
At Morris'* wharf, just above the Drawbridge,
from on board the brig; Eliza, capt. Vaughan,
from Mahga—
Fresh Fruits, Wine and Brandy
Lerrtons Hi cftefisand half chests
ftaifini of thS Son in kegs
Figs in do.
Soft (hi li d Alfrlond* in fatM
Grapes and Olives in jars
Bloom and Mufcatelßaifms in boxes
Anchovies in kegs
Jordan Mid Bitter Almono's in boi«
Old Mnflhtain Wine in qr. callcs
Brdndy in butt«. Ac. &c.
For Sale by
PETER KUHN.
f The above.Brig forfale
J, -f? if immediately arpliedlor; (he
is a remarkable fine fad failing
having made her paflagc
to and from Malaga in little more than 60 days,
march *°*
Freight Wanted.
FOR BREMEN,
I •Cir?G\. i The Hamburgh Brig
I HENRIETTA,
Piter P. Schmidt, Majler,
\TOW lying at JelTe and R. Wain s wharf A
IN stout, strong veflel, of about i?o tons bur
then, in good order ; has two thirds of her carjro
ready to go on board, and begins to Ibad to-riiorrow.
For Freight only, apply to
PRATT fcf KItfTZING,
No. 95, North Water-flrect.
Who have JOS? and fOk SALE,
II bales Tickleburgs anil Oznabngto
1 do. Wftetbornes
X do. bleached HelHans
I pacWajJe Oil Clnth #
I fheft and 8 barrels Snnff Boxes
3b Llfjliir Caff
29 itncHors pearl Barylc, and
4 cases elegant Carriage Harnels, Whip?,
Spurs, &c.
—T"HEY HAVE FOE SALE
Claret In ease«, Port Wine in pipes, Ruflia Soap
in fmallbbxrs, Rice, Brimflone, Tumblers, Win
dow G'afs, Slates, a cargo of excellent Mahoga
ny, Hellhni, Drown Roll*, Polifb Linens, empty
Coffee Bags, &c &c. ill entitled to the drawback.
march IP. tnths.y
*" For Hamburgh,
THE SHIP
Dominick Terry,
'' J olin rirtning, Majler,
Having great part ol her cargo en
l * —For freight apply to
I JeJfe £s* Robert Wain.
Fchnufy 16 .
For Sale or Charter,
7 he Siiovj
GOOD HOPE
■ >'-H Will carry about 1100 barrelj, and
totake in a cargo. For terms
W n r. r
Praters C 5 Lo.
No. 151, South Secoml-ftreet.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Suc*r
and Hnm, Madera, Lifoun, and Tcneriffe win#.
Nfivem'.ier 7-
notice
IS hereby jjiven, that the SuM'crilier, an infol
vrnt debtor, confined in the common foal of
the CrtUr.ry of Cape May in the state of New-
fitb preferted his petition to the Judges
Pt' the Inferior Court of Common Pleis, in and
ferthe said couhty, pra>ing that they would
• attend to hear what can be alledged for ora
' eJinft his lib«at'».n, pursuant to an »<fl or the
LegiflatuVe of this State, entitled -Van aS for
i th- relief of insolvent dfbtors, passed the 26th
' day ot Ja uiryH;<)B-And the the ft'd eo.rt
rfid afpoim Monday tlie 16th day of March
next for tbe afofefaid ; to-meat ar the
Court Honfe in the Middle Precina, at eleven
o'clock. In i He forenoon of the fild day, of winch
«• "*
Cape rtay.Peb. 8,1798-
i reb. 14. — 1 iwjw
PHILADELPHIA: TUESDAY EVENING, APRIL 10, 1798-
Thomas y Joshua Fisher,
HAVE FOR S T.I,
At No. y, Dock-ftreet,ne*r the Drawbridge,
Chir.a ware nankeen dining feits, tea and coifec
c»ps and saucers
Nankeens, black fattins and taffities
Pungem cloths, el oppah roinalls, and bandannoes
China and Enulift umbrellas, ,
Together with a general ajfortment of European
Goods— among which are
Scots thread in boxes
611. 8d tod-. lid and 2cd. nails
Shot—T. Crowley fleet, Spanish. brown and white
lead
Eaglilh scythes 41 to 50 inches
ALSO,
tli barrrllsof kiln dr- 'nt'ian cdrnme*!.
AcomniodiousStoreinDock-ftreet,
No. 7, to be let, three stories high, iuitable for t
any bufmefs. f t
4th rao. sth §tf f
— ~— a
full Landing (
From the.brig Harmony f'nm the Hie of France,
And for sale I?y
• J°f e ph Anthony & Co,
70 bale* Bourbon cotton ot a superior quality
150 bags do. coffee
34 casks do. Indigo
april * , drot
IMPTTRTED,
In the Erig Benjamin Franklin, from
Bourdeaux,
AND FOR SALB BY THE SUBSCRIBES,
Claret in casks
White wine in half calks
Sweet oil of a superior quality ill boxes andjbalkets
I.unelle ">
Saitterne ( Winesln Cases.
Macarty, and (
Medoc )
Thomas Murgatroyd,
No. 11,' Walnut Street.
who has on hand,
Bourdeaux Brandy in pipes "J) lNtitled
Irish market 7 nr e r
Medoc, and Sau f erpc 3 IKS j drawbaek
Sherry wine in pipe sand quarter calks
Rota
Pirhento in bags
Tw6 trunks of Umbrellas, and
About 4000 bushels I iverpoolSalt.
march 19 mw&ftf^
Treasury Department,
March 19, 1798.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
T'HATpropolals will be recffivfcd at the Office of
the Secretary of the Treasury until rhe expi
ration of the i?th day of July next ensuing, for
thefupply of all rations which may be required
for the use of the United States, flomthe firli day of
October 1798, to the thirtieth day of September
1799, both days inclusive, at the places and within
the diftrid hereafter mentioned, viz. At Ofwego;
at Niagara ; at Frefquelfle; at Michilimackinac ;
at Fort Frpnktin ;at Pittsburgh ; tjf Le Beuf; at
Cincinnati; at Greertville ; at! Picque Town and
Lcramie's Store ; at Fort Wayne; at Fort Defi
ance ; at any place below Fort Defiance on the Mi
ami RiVer to Lake Erie ; at Fort Knox and Oua
tanon on the River Wabafti; at Maffac} at a'ny
plac or places on the dafl fide of the River Miffif
fr+)f>i ahoVe iht nlouth of the RiVer Ohio, and up
on the Illinois River ; at ainy place or places 011 the
east Gdd 6( the Mifliflipjii River bcflow the 'mouth
off the Rivet Ohiotothe fdiithrrri boundary of the
State of Kentucky, and within the said Stat# ; at
Knoxvtlle, Tdlie6 Block Hoiife, and at all Ather
Poftfe in the State of TeDuefTec ; at any place or
places on thfeeaftfide of the River Mifllfllppi, be
low the ftMrtfttern boundary of the State of renncf
fee, to boun<iary of the United States.
If supplies fliall be required for any polls or
places not mentioned in this notice,all such supplies
fhalUhe furniflied'at prices proportion«d to those to
the polls before recited, as may be agreed on be
tween the Qpited States and the contra&6r.
The rations to be supplied to condft of th" fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound of bread er Soar
One pound of beef or twelve ounces of pork
or bacon
Half a jiil of ruro, brandy or whif-~J
ky, one quart of Salt, two quarts / h(|
of vinegar, two pouHds of foap.f rati(JnJ
ona pound of candles J
The rations arc to befurtiilhed in such quantities,
as that there lHall at all times during the fold term,
be fulficitnt for the conliimptiou of the troops at
Michilimackinac, Detroit, Niagara, and Ofwego,
for the term of fix months in advance, and at each
, ef the other polls, for the term of at leall three
months in advance, In good and whplefome provi
. fioHS, if the fatne shall be required. Itlstabeun
f dirflood, that the contriiSor Is to be at the ex
fence and H!k Of iffning the fuppllesto the troops
at eacb pod, and that all lolfes fullained by the de
predations of an enemy, or by mtans of the
troops of Hie United states, lhall be paid for at
the price of the articles captured or tlellroyed, on
the depofttrons of two or nr.ore persons of credita
ble characters, ami the certificate of a commHlion
ed tifficer, afefcrtaining the cirountftances of the
lofsand the amount of the articles for which com
* penfation {hall be claimed.
The privrledge is reserved to the United States
of requiring that none of the Supplies which may
be furnilhed under the.propcfed contrail, fliall be
issued, until the fijpplies which have or may be
furnilhed under the conttafl now in furce have
b«en consumed.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary if iht Treasury.
I '7- aiwtr;)y
FOR SALE,
ALL that elegant three story Brick House, brick
Kitchen and Lot of Ground fituatc on the
funth weft corner of Fourth and Prune ftrcets,
r coittairire in front on Fourth ftrett 5 ; feet, and
1. in length on Prune llrect 98 leet, to a four feet al
ky intended to be left open with common privi
lege of the fame.
Also, a two (lory brick House and Lot of Grourd
I- fttuate on the weft fide »f Fourth frreet and ad
s joining the above, containing in breadth eu Fourth
(Iret't 7.5 feet 6 inches, and in depth 58 f«et on the
■s said four feet alley, with the common privileges of
d the fame.
J And also, all that Lot of Ground fituite on the
weft fide of Fourth flreet and adjoining the bit
e described lot, containing in breadth on fourth
ir flreet 15 feet 6'lnches, and in depth nn the mrth
fide 101 feet, thence running southward 11 feet 6
inches, thence farther WeMward 12 fed, thence
, ft ill further fonthward >4 feet, and thence by the
Chapel ground 114 feet to Fourth (liert. with the
lc common us: cf the said four feet iltry leading lu
ll ro Prune street The whole will be fold together
" if rtiOfe agr.cable to the purcliafer.
enquire Of the at his'of
fice, So. rl4 South F.ißrthf;«eet
ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER.
march jt. jowrt
By John Fenno, N O, 119 Chefnut Street.
Twenty Dollars Reward. J
f I 'HS Ptore occupied en account of the United
1 States, back of >'o. 71, North Water-llreet .
was op theoighto!" the lyh mil aat (March) bro- v
ken ope"i. and the articles ftoleu, avd
taken therefrom : _ a
Nine pieces Stroud, viz. ti
*374 2 ° h y ds "7 Blue ftroud fugle l<
*37® ♦ C cord.
2379 , 20 J
2380 1 Ci
2381 20 -J | Ii
2382 20 1 "Two cord.
23 8 3 2 °i
2384 20 P
2385" 20 f J t ,
The above reward is offered, for the discovery
of the perpetrators of this robbery, they
be apprehended, and amenable y> jufliee ; »
further reward will be paid, for t! e itcovrry of *
any part at the goads llolen, o" dcli*ry ol the '•
fame to
JOHN HARRIS,
Keeper Military Stores,
april 2. Iw
_ul A- P
New Publication. )
i *
A Senflble, Senfonab'.e and Spirited \
ADDRESS, e
Written hy a Citizen ps Phiiadslpffii—entitled, F
" Whar is our Situation ?
What our Profpe&a ?"
A few Pages for Americans.
For Sale by WILLIAM \ OUNG,
Corner ot Chefnut Ktirt Second Streets,
And at the Office of the Editor, 119 Chefnut ftr. -
(Price tkrec fixtccitlljs cf a dollar)
s.xtra& from the above. e
" It it rfonifiing la bear the f xpence cf war so often p
urged, and by -t'Al fetftt ll>o, ognufi our taiing S
any meafifres of felf-prefervatHin —-flail tve be dcjlruyed, I
beeaufew will net hear the exfirntr of defence, for my
o-wn fart, if it u neeeffary I fkjaidghr one half of all '
I have to save t'ic other, / fball not beftate to do so If f
more is reyuifite, more fball be given ; and if finally, I
ntttfl give Up all to pref.vc my life and liberty, allfault be (
freely given. The true ■we zllb cf a nation confifl, in iti {
independence and security, and not in accumulating gold io
tie in ufi'fs heaps, or enrich the triumph oj afavage con- ,
queror—At a time -when half the luortd is racked in dire ,
convulftons, ti then immense amtries are difolated and po-w- |
erful nations extirpated "if wfcape with expence only, j
xue may deem ourfclves very fortunate.
April J JV_ '
"Valuable Property for Sale.
FOR SAt.E, ' \
THAT well known Estate, called SHREWS- (
BURY FARM, formerly the residence of ,
General John Cadwaladei, situate on Saflafra;s Ri- j
ver, in Kent county, Maryland—containing a- 1
boat 1900 acrr» of prime LAND, upwajdjof 500 ,
of which ar« m woods., Fhe Buildings are all.ex- t
cellent, and ctxnfift cf a hatidfonie Dwelling House, ,
two large Barns with Cow houses, Stables for fifty t
horses, a spacious treading |l6or under cover, a <
granary, two Overseer's houses, two ran- I
ges of two story buildings sor v Negroes (one of I
tbero new and of brick), Corn houses, a Smoak I
house , inc. See.—The whole Estate being nearly ]
surrounded by water, it requires but little fencing, ;
and has a good Shad and Herringfifhery. It is '
coavenientiy fit aated for both the Philadelphia and
Eiltimore markets, with two landings on a navj
gable rivtr but a short fail from Baltimore. There |
is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
the premiUsj also, a variety of excellent fruits of
difiVrent kinds. The foil moHly a rich loom.— ]
The whole will be fold together, or divided into ,
(,nailer farms (for which.she buildings are conven
iently situated) as may suit the purcliafer. The
Stock on said Farm, consisting ot Horses, Cattle,
Sheep, Sec. will also bedifpofedof.-^—-for further
particulars apply to Ge©ros Hastings, on the
premises, or tothefftbferiber, in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jun.
February 24. ftaw6w
Escapes.
BROKE the Prison of Cumberland county, In
New-Jersey, and ijutfe their escape, Uc.'weon
1 and 2 o'clock, this mornin , twp Men, who
were convi&ed of ftealitlg—one of them calls hint
felf James Legg, the other Edward Hambleton—
Legg is a grey iieaied Man. about 50 years pld, 5
ffet 8 indhes high, thick set, with a retnarkable
large head i Hambleton is about z6 years old, J
feet, 9 or 10 inches high, black hair. Left the
prison in company with the above described
thieves, afmallman, who calls himfelf Matthew
Morrifon, about 14 years 01d,.? leet 6 inches high,
light hair, fair complexion, smiles when talking, is
a wheel-wright by trade Whoever will secure
the thieves in any Gaol in New-Jarfey or Pennsyl
vania, shall bu entitled to receive Ten Dollars for
the old »ne, Fifteen for the young one, and Twen
ty for Matthew Morrifon
GEORGE BURGIN, Sheriff.
Bridgetown, march f5. -4 —
Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-street.
George Davis,
IMPRESSED with the favors fhewn-hlm in his
efforts toeftabliih a Store for the la>e of Law
Books only, begs leave to inform the Gentlemen
of the Bar generally throughout the United States,
that in addition to his collection now on hand,
which he Juppofes to be more extensive, than in
the poffefftmi of any one petfon for sale in Ameri
ca, he expe-as daily very large supplies from Lon
don. & Dublin, particularly lrom th« latjer place,
havingeliiefly confined his importations to thole »di
tions a* beirl^in his opinion equally cvrreCt with
the London copies, and well known to be infinite
ly tower charged.
G. D. limiting himfelf, solely to the sale of Law
BocU, it "willappear obvious to profeCTional gen
tlemen thfc great advantages they havem purcbating
from him, both as to feleSion and price, of which
the encouragement he has received for fevetul ycirs
past, is tht best testimony he can offer.
r arch «o. 3a* .1w
For Sale,
A good situation for a Country Seat,
Forty acres of Land,
On the Old York road, w i'bin fight of Ger
mant,«wn, tvid-ataout five TTriles from the oity;
the whole Ixring under good fence, and in ex
cellent Older as ground.
For further information and terms, apply to
■ J<**n Elliott C*«sS«n, at his Office for the
lil* of KealEftates, Conveyancing, &c. No. ; A ,
High-street.
4',h.rao. 3de, Hl&f. lit
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
March 3oth. 1798. p
. Public Notice is hereby given,
by an ail of CongriJs pafitd on the
19th day of March, the following;-
a teraticms and amendments have l>ee» made to
the atf pafled oa the 6th day of July 1797, en
titled " Ar. aa laying duties on stamped vel
" liim, parchirten: and paper."
The stamp duties on delientures or e-ertifi
cate« fru the drawback of Cultoms or duties on
Imports art repealed. 0
11. d
A difcotint at the rite of seven and one half
pet Centum, will he alfbwed by the Supervil'ors n
of lii Cp«dlocs rcr to any persons other
than ,Officers of (he llevenue, who may pur
ch ,fe it onetime or procure to be ftimped, any
quantities of Vell'jai, Parchment r Paper, upon
which the r : uties lhall amount to Icn Dol
. lars or upwards.
HI.
Stamped Papfr, will be provided, and fold at
the rates prescribed by law, wiihout any addi
tional kbarge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but lor stamped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional pr ce will be demanded
at the rate of fitly Cents for each skin of Parch
m nt, or Two Hundred Cents for eaali skin us
Vellum of medium li/.e, which may be ftirm!i» ,
ed at the experife of the United States'and pro- J
portidnally for any leflVr quantity.
Given under my band, at Philadelphia, the
day and yew aboix.m:'ntitt r td. <
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
FORGERIES.
'• TTTHEREA? ftveral have been commit-
VY> led in this city ar.d New-Y'vfk ando!her plac
es by 3or men, *> are now confined i > Ncw-Y »ik
n goal for life, one of them by n«.me D'. Gran*, alns
Smith White ; ar-other by name Dr. Gilbert, alias
Lewis; forged a bill of exchange on NichoiasCook
v of New-York wiih a letter of advice from JVL flfrs.
H Brown, Benfon Sc. Ives of ; rovidence, they alloforg-
Yed 3 ci.eLMS in ihe name ot Nicholas 00lc } also 2 checks
j in the name of JoNn RathbGn'c —William Grant is a- I
bout 24 years old, light completion, long favored, his <
countenance by no means exprellive, but rather filly 1
s or breathes uncommonly hard, and fre- )
t0 queutly heaves a sigh, rather thin built, (lender confti
tution,has a hacking cough,emfumptive look, wore a
re green clot,b ,cotx in July '96, has a defe& in one 01 both
front teeth, lived some time clerk with NichoLs Cook
y» in New-York —Gilbert, alias Lewis is ratner tat or
lusty, has a fear over one of his eyes, Grant A Gilbert
in June 1796 torged letters of recommendation ar»d <
credit to this pity,from J. R2thbonc,Nich»>la 3 Cook, 1
Hoyt $c Tona, Pell & M«*llick, j >hn Rathbone's waj
wellcxecuied, Grant boarded ai Mr. Grimes' Tavarn
the George, comer of Mulberry and Second-street ;
Gilbert in 7th street, and kept a one horle c'naife.—
' Grant fleptina room with Mr. Robeit tticknell, and
! broke open his bureau, while Mr. B. was at Bakimorc,
l " and stole a bill of exchadge for 120 dollars, from the
L " fignafure he forced 2 drafts on the>Pennfylvania bank,
0 da»cd 6 July 'g6, one for four hundred and forty-two
" dollars, and gave it to Mi. Wilcox's black boy to re- 1
c > cove, the Bank being (hut the boy was taken into cuf-
X tody bv a constable, the draft lays at the May
a or*6 office ; the other diaft for 225 dol ars was paid
- by the Sank soon in the morning of the 71b July-*- on
>f the9tb.« afternoon, he received through the
k hinds of Me(TVI. Debauffrc and .Goodwin a dra(t of
j Williaip Prieflman*9, dated July on the United
jg it that nighf, he forced arnjthcr frcJin the ure on
|( j the United States Bank toi 446 dollars dated lolh
• : July, Sunday, which was paid on Monday morning,
early (3th or 14th July heapoeat;fcd in a new dress
e new boots, &c. and removed to a more retired lodg
,rl ing, at Mrs. SniitVs between rch and Race-ltreeis,
3 daysafter, he set out for Virginia Springs, but upon
"" the road he fl.'bt «n a room with a gen lcinan and
to robbed his saddle bags of some watches lor which he
n ~ was Vntfcncsd at iialiimore to the wheel boirow, but
lately retcafed, having very good fiicnds in Connc£li
cut. ptrfon w'r.6 can prove his writing upon
cr convi&ion ol the offender, Oiaflfeceive 100 dollars re»
lie ward, as the United SPatcs Bank have re'ufed to pay
thi money, apply to William Prietlmap, No. IA south
.Pljiladclphia.
In a days the 3checks by the
fame. Grant, 2 gentlemen having fworpto his writing,
will be left at the Mayor's pHftee for infpe£lion.
apiil 2. so.
Jfrael Morris 1
in againlt | Maryland.
JJ" ThoraasMargatroyd, Jaraes Bell, ' IjiChancfry,
Marfkall and Benjamin Smith, ,1 March 8,
™" Executors of Samuel Tucker, I 1798.
de,csafed. j
I r objefl of [he bill, is for tfce Complain
>e X nant, Israel Morris, to obtain reliet against
a judgment on a bend by him executed, on the
c( j 3 ift day of December, 1782, to the said Samu
,w el Tucker, for the sum of £.jpo principal.—
The relief is prayed on the ground, that the
Complainant assigned, by way of security.lor
Jle the said money, a bond tobimthe Coinplain
y|. ant, executed by Samiel Downing, for the Inm
for of >£ 350 that the said Tucker received of the
en- money due on the said last mentioned bond the
lutn of jfi.ioo and negleiftefl to take Heps for
obtaining the residue, until the said Downing
r became insolvent.
'i'lic bill ilar«s that all the defendants are
now residents of the State. It is therefore, on
his motion, adjudged and ordered, thai he
caule a copy ps this order to be inserted, three
weeks fuccfeffively, in some newspaper of Phila
delphia, in or near v. hich the defendant? reside,
his at any time before the firtt day of May next,
aw or served upon each of the defendants geueral
ifn Iy, before the said day i to the intent that they
£ e s i have noiiee of the complainants application to
?d> this court and of the fubltance and objeit of bis
bill and may be warned to appear here on or
srl " before the third I'mef.iay in September next, to
on " lhew cause, wherefore a decree fhouid not pass
lc . e ' as prayed.
,a ' h " Attest.
SAMUEL HARVEY HOWARD,
,te * Keg. Cur. CatJ.
April 3 COJW
en- —< —
ing FOR SALE, AT *
Wm. Young's Book Store,
No. J2. Second street, the corner of Chefnut flreet,
v of the Committee of the House of
Jfx. Representatives of the United Stages, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
againtl vcILLIA.M[ BLOUNT, a Senator of the
Uni'ed States, impeached of high crimes and mis
demeanors, iradein pursuance of a resolution of
»er the liouf«of Reprefentatr'es, r .'horizing the said
ty ; Committee to fit during the recti* of Congress, and
ex . inftru&inj; them 44 to enquire, and, by all lawful
" means, to dUcdvcr the whole suture and extent
Yto " of the offence Whereof the laid William Blount
t j ie 41 Hands impeacheJ, aud who arc the parties and
" adiicsatcs therein."
A * Printed hy order of the lU#fc of Reprejentatii)es
t Dvcttinbcf 2o» §
['Volume XIII.
JY[ inchefter Goods.
Received by the latcft arrivals from Liverpool,
vera! trunks, for the prtfcnc and ap
proachH'.y; fen forl which will be fold very
low fqr cafii or on a fhorr credit, viz.
7-8 and 9-8 Printed Calicoes
Fancy in Mars illes, tea.
Cotton and ftlfc and cotton Hofiiry, Pantaloons,
&c.
A variety of (PngU(H)TJml)rfllas
Nankeen*, cotton Hbtft.SHo':binding, &«.
N. B. A cafe of printed Muflmets, mid a trunk
of PullicatUangalore Handkerchirfs, entitled to
drawback,' and very suitable for the Weft-Indies.
Apply No. 35 South Watcir and corner 6f Clef*
nut street. 4mo. 4 —§iw
Just Received,
and for sale by
ISAAC HARVEY, J UN.
(No. 1. South Water ."met,)
A Quantity of Georgia v. otton.
ALSO,
Prime Aux-Cayes Molafle*
Raifia» in kegs
in barrets—and'
A Tew ton's 6i Nicaragua wooi.
4»h mo 4th
For Sale,
By Elliston John Pekot,
'No- 4r, Nqrih Il"*Ur Street,
London particular Madeira Wirtd, in pipes and
quart r 4. years old and fit teriwtiKciiattf ufs«
Inferior do.
A few bales Allibat! Cefies s
Hapdktrohiefs
Sail Car.vafs, No. i, too
A few bags of Juniper licrries
A parctl of Soal 1 Leather, aad
A few boxes of China,
march 3 tuicf4W_
Valuable Stands for Bufinels.
FOR SALE—by the Subfcl iber,
Two Lots of Ground,
Situate on the south fide of Chefuut-ftreet, be«
tween Second and i hird ttrects : —one containing
eighteen feet, and the other fevente n feet, more or
ess, on the said street, and bo;h extending, t c
If'hie breadth, one hundred and forty«£gV» niO'if
or Less, to Carter's alley.
There are, on Chefnut-ftreet, two two story
BRICK HOUSES
(Numbers 80 and 82)
Which may readily be made into one ; and, 03
Carter's alley, there is a convenient, well built
three-ftery
Brick House and Kitchen,
Aimoft new, which has two room* 011 a floor
and a front of eighteen feet on said altay.
This property is clear of ground-rent, and an
indisputable title will be given to the purchaser.
The three Houses will be fold separately or toge
ther.
Further particulars may be known cn applica
tion to
ZACHARIAH POULSON, tun.
No 80, Chtfuut-ltreet, or at the V.irary,
march ay I[el tßw
Ba ike n rid —'or t'ale
TT confiO. of 920 acres, almost all of whleh in
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof 'he late
Esrl of St r'.ing). It may be conveniently dixijcj
ißto five farms, four of which are bounded on the
Ea3 by the river I'afaiek.
Th r* are on it a number of buildings, forming
afq 'are of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
is a very convenient one and,a fmallrzper.ee would
pus it in complete repair.
The orchard confitls of Ijqo fin .bearingengraf.
Ed Apple Trees—and there is on other pirts o! said
trail near 300 other Apple Trees—as aifo a great
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
belt and wioft delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
Forest Trees, that add to the beauty and conveni.
ense of the place Its situation is abtut 18 mile«
from the towns of Newark and Eliza'cth: 10 do,
from Morris-Town, and.li from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in calh, on delivery of the deeds. Please to m.
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chefnut treet,
Febrmry a. < eodtf
To the Afflicted v/ith
NERVO'JS Disorders, loss of appetite, female
complaints, debilitated conftitutioas, inward
weaknesses, lownefs of fplrits, familial weaknefles,
indigestion, decayed, weak or relaxed conllitutior.s,
pains in the limbs, poverty of blood, finking anx
ieties, and tremors, whijli so dreadfuilv aIF it the
weak, the fedent'ary ai;d the delicate, every fynjp
tomof extreme debility, attendant on the'indifc'rd.
tions of youth, the consequences of a diflipated
life ; excefr of pleal'are change of climate,
the immoderate use of tea, fpirituotfs liquors, or
any intemperance j disorders incident to young
girls and women at a certain period of life—-
THE CELEBRATED
Cordial Reftorarive Balsam,
Is aijiedicineof abfolutrly fpecific and unparal
leled virtues, in the speedy and edFe-Clual cure of ths
above disorders, having flood atrial of many fuc.
csfsfal yi ars, during which periouivaßy have been'
Xellored fr®;ii the brink of the grave.
Vsu-h and age of either f-x, are equally the eh,
jejlt of thi- Retlrr.irive, and they will uniformly
participate in its falijbrimis q lalities and e.Te-Ss <
1 for whether the fyflem ; as received a (hock, and i,
debilitated, from impmdcncie* »r inattention in
the earlier part of li'e, or is finking under tbe ad
-1 vance of years, a small quantity of this ip-d/cino
' v/ill give present relief to, uid aff.ird a pleafiog
profpeift ps returning h»alth and llrength, hy >;i».
i.ig tone to the tnufcu'ar fyllem and orgins of di.
and in a great meMure renovating the eos.
flitution.
Women at any period of life, may by this medk
exe be freed from the rnoH afflicting difirr lers in.
eident to the fcl, tpd at a certain period it i« mpfl
highly uTeful.
The Cordial Reflorative Balsam is fold genuine
, (only) by the proprietor, Er. f -.MF.S CHURCH,
f at his medicine (tore, No 1, South Third (ireet,
next Market-? reet, Philadelphia ; where miy be
t hac an account of ths virtu sos this Reft.ra'iv4
• and a lift of cures,
f april .1 law iw
1 The Owners of 5982 Dollars
i Captured in the fcho rer Lovely Lady of New»
1 York, captain Edward Jolinfton, hy tie French
t privateer Revanche, caprain 1 Antoinc Retard, oa
t the f 3th o ' last July, are roqurfted to make imaie.
d diate application to the Department of Slate rs«
fpeAing the fame.
>j Depart .ent of St.ite, *>
philadclf hU, Apr A T7p§.) vOn 1 the ic.th day of
Aprii next, it 7 o'clock in the evening, at ce
thtrCily Tavern, Second Street, in the City is
of Fhtlade'phia,
WILL l>c exposed to public fait, feventesn cii
UiSi or parcel* of land fitnated in Point
townlhip >n the county of Northumberland, and f.'
containing in the whole Gx thoofand seven hun- t0
dred and (ixty-fom acres and three quarters, u
with the ufuilallo*ance for roads.
Terms of sale, l-j of the purchase money on j
the exectition of the 4eed, I*s in three month*,
and 1-3 in fix months, in godd uotes or other
approved fecarftv
V CONNELLY tf Co. At,a.
March 9. lawm dtl_a_ b
M ES SAGE c b '
Of the President of the Unit eel States, b
To both Houses of Congress, r f
AriiL g, '9B t
With the Dispatches from the Envoys of tl
the United States at Paris, v
Which acco i panicd the Same.
FOR SALE _ p
At Nol 6j North 3d flreet, at Way AGroff's
Printwg-Ollici. No. a; Arch flreet. r.nd at the
of tV; Editor. No. I'l), Chefnu ttreet
Now Opening,. j!
AtV» T in.iAMM'LAW».SaddleManufadlory, .
. No. 72, Chef nut Street,
A general alfortment of Horseman s (
Piflols, direU from the Manufacture!* in London. p
AI. SO 4>N HAND, n
Sid Mes. Bridles, Holders, Half Cora*, Lijht a
Hoileran.'s V.vc f d», Cartoueh Boxes,VVa t
licej . Saddle Bag*, Portmanteau's, Hard father „
Trunks/ Carriage and Chair Harness, &c. il
ap"' ? '
For Sale, J
THE te'BSCRTHm, NO. 10. CHESNU 1 STRIET, (
11 Ca(ks.of Carolina Indigo, c
Which will Le fold on realonable terms on a ftort <•
credit.
Robert Henderfon. 1
_aprili_ _ __ mw&» 4 w ,
Madeira Wine. . s
A few p ; pes of remarkably fine Madeira, fit 1
for immediate afe, and at a re'Jnced price ior
fti, tvy james YARD. t
April 4- Atw
" TO BE LET," ~ I
/lnd pnjjejfion given immediately,
A genteel three story brick House, !
N . 7, Nof'h Eighth ftreer, I
14 feet front an 55 feet deep, with a handfoms ;
G;. f , en . iiuqu re at No. 118 Spruce llreet.
aprii f §
Notice —Agreeably to charter,
Is hereby given to the members of " the cor
poration for the relief of poor afid diftrffled
p: tfbyterian ministers and the poor and diftrefled
widovts and children of prelbyterian mirifters,"
that a meeting offaid corporation is to be hold
en, on the 16th day of May next, at 4 o'clock
p. M.i:i the second prefbyterias church in the
city < f Philadelphia,'for the dispatch of all such
bufinei* as may then be before the
bua.d. ASHBEL GREEN,
Secretary of the Corporation.
April 7. tawt t6m
The Annual Ele&iori
I """OR. DireiSori and a Treifurer of th* Library
H Company «£ Philadelphia, will be held at the
Litrary, in FKth flreet, on M»nday, the ;ih of
May licit, at three o'clock in the afternoon, when'
the Treifurer will attend to receive the annual
p*ymc»:s.
As there are fevaral fharcs on whi*h finei are
due, the «wners of them, or their reprefantatives,
are hereby notified, that they will be forfeited, a
greeab'y to the laws of the company, unless the
arrears are paid off on the said 7th day of May,
or within ten days after.
By ord-rcf th; Directors,
BENJ AMIN R. MORGAN, Secretary.
April 7 .taw
Pennsylvania Hoipital,
4th mo. "Jtk, 1798.
7T~'HE Contributors to the Pennsylvania Hofpi-
J. tal.aie te meet oathe seventh day of next
Month, being the second day of the week, at the
said Hospital at three o'clock ill the afternoan, to
tleift tweive Managers and a Treasurer, for the
.cnfuing year.
By or.ltr of a board as JAanaveri*
SAMUEL COATES, Sec'ry.
April 7 „ dtE
N O T I C E.
THE Partnership of the fubferibers, trad in" un
der the firm of PAXSON to 1 RICHARD
FON, was diflolvcd on the sixth of the third month
lap, ty mutu 1 corrfent. All persons indebted
thereto are earnestly requeftcd to make payment ;
aou tliofe that have any demands againll the fame,
are tltfired to prrfent their accounts for settlement
to either of the fubfcriben.
Isaac Pax/on,
Nathaniel Ruhardfon.
Philadelphia, 4th mo. 3d, 1798.
isaacHpaxson,
Continues to carry on the buCncfs at the usual
place, No. 10, South Third street, where he has
on hand a brgc affortincnt of Irooaiongery, Sad
dlery. Cutlery and Brass Wares, which he wi 1 fell
wkol?fal« or retail, on low terms, for cufh or th«
usual credit, hie expe£U to receive by the firft
veffcU fropi London, Brtildi, Liverpool and Hull,
a Urge addition to his prefect afTortment pn d
will execute with punctuality and care any orders
from he former cuilomers, and his friends in gen
eral. 11W4W
The City Dancing Allembly,
In'erded forThnrfJay evening next is unavoidably
poSponcd until Friday, the i jthjjf April when the
ieafoi) wi.l be d»[ J.
PROPOSALS,
BY THI
InfuYamt Company of North America.
ForTusotAHCE against Fixt, on Ow«lling-
Hoiifcs, Wafe-Hoofrs and other Buildings (and
on Goods contained in such Buildings) diflant from
Philadelphia, in the United States.
I. Conunon lufurancer, on hazards of tl-e firft
class, will be undertaken at a prenvium of ahout
hall per cent, per annum. For extra hazardous
ritnri a larger prerri>im will be required, which
will vaiy according to eireumftanccs, feidom ex
ceeding onr per cent, per anr.uni ; b«t iD some in
stances, where the property afurcd is not only in
iffelf rxtra harar.ioas, but rendered fiiit morefo
by the vicinity ef extra hazardous buildings and
occupations, the premium demanded will be raised
according to eiifumHanccs.
' HoisUs and Ware-House*, the walls and parti
tfons of which arc wholly of itone or I rick, well
c< fo at to b» guarded as well a*may be
fires from within, andlrtc from extra ha
■ siddes buildings and occupations iu their neig'i
fi.-'.ocd, will be deemed hazardous of the nrl)
C,l. , -jul asy be inliued to va'uc.
Aifo Goo '.i *5 1 NferehanJiie, cot o* an extra »
haza dous kind, in calks bale, to de-
in futh buildup >, to an amount iot ex
ceeding ,000 doilars ; bat if more than _
is 11nmreti to be insured in one tencnK.t, art t ldi ■
cional premium will be required, iu proportion to
circunftances.
11. Infuraaces wil! also be nude on buildings and
goods eiftra hazardous, at premiums proportioned _
to tha risque. But ic i» hot e. fy to arrangt these ,
under particular heads or clafTes, so as to describe
each with the neieffary accuracy. F.ach cal; mutk
therefore be decidedupon accordingto thecircum- ,
ftarcesa unding it ; and these cii'cUmilanccs wili, •
in general, appear l'rora the description accompa- |
uying the application.
Bu Idings partly eontlruAcd of liTick or stone, |_
are pi eferaule to those wholly woodet l And in t.
both cases, the stile of buiUing, how thoy are oc-
cupied, how they are situated, the neighboring
buildings, and how occupied, are considerations to Oj
be 1 taken into view. And with to goods,
thoir tendency, whether from their nature, or
from the manner in which they are exposed, ether 0.
to co'mmcr.cc or to increal'e an accidental fire, and £
their liability in such state to receive damage by
wet, or by sudden and hafly removal, or to be fi.j- /'
len in time of confufion and hurry, arc all cir
cuniflances of weight ; and the prtniiums mufl be
proportioned accordingly. f
111. The fallowing coiulitiont are to be under- j t
flood hy the parties. .
Ift. The Insurance is not binding till the llipu
lateil premium be paid ; but it lhall be deemed ef- /,
fedaal from the time of such payment and accep
tance theveof, whether the policy be immediately
Signed or not. o
2d. Insurances may be renewed at the expira
tion of the-term of the policy, without further ex
pense« than the payment of the premium of the re- a
newed term, the circumflances continuing the fame
as they were anHcrftoo.! by the lnfur rs st the time '
the former ir.furance was mads ; bu*. the payment c
of the prynium is efle:uial to such renewal ; and
if the party i fured fuffers any time to elap'fe after
the expiration of the former infiirance, before he /
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
during filch time ;«or can the insurance be' renew
ed on the former policy but hy computing the 1
commencement of the renewal fr«m the expiration (
of.thi former insurance. The (übje'ifl of insur
ance may neverthelcfs be open to treaty for a new *
insurance. »,
jd If any other ir.furance be made on the fame
property ; it mu.l be made known at the t/'tne of -
application, othtrwife the policy made on such ap- f
plication will be void.
4th Goods held in trust, or on conflgnment, '
may be insured as fach in .1 H: policy; but ,
they are not tube coiifidered ■ s infusedstherwife.
S th. This company will not be liable or accoun- '
table for any loss or damage occalioived by any lor- j
elgn invasion, or by any military or uftirped force, (
or by peafon of any civil commotion ; or occaGon
ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or other thing of the (
like kind kept in the building, cr amongll the pro
perty insured.
6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu- ,
rities, Title Deeds, Money, Bank and other pro
milTury Notes, are not included in any infiirance ;
nor are paiatings, medals jewels, gems, antique
curiosities, or mirrors exceeding the valae of twen
ty-five dollars each, to be considered as insured un
less particularly mentioned and by special agree
niacit.
7th. No insurance will be made for a shorter
term than one year, nor for a longer term than se
ven years. Persons choosing to infare for seven
years shall be allowed one year's premium by way
of difeount: One third of a years premium lhall
be abated in like manner on au insurance for
tkree years.
Bth. fuftained by fire en property insured,
shall b: paid in thirty days after due proof and li
quidation thereof, without dedu&ion.
A defciiption of the property to be infurod will
be expecSed with nach application, to be made by
j a mafler carpenter and signed by him, as well as
, by the owner cf the building ot applicant for in-
I furance, and attelled before a Notary or principal
Magistrate, who will certify his knowledge of the
. parties and their credibility.
With to Houses and other Buildings,
ift. '1 he fitc and pofitian ; describing the
; street or" road on or near which the building
, stands ; its contiguity to water, and otfcer cir
cumstances relative to the extinguifhracnt of fire
in cafe of accident; and particularly whether
. any and whjt fire companies are established, and
engines provided, In the- place or neighbourhood.
2d, The materials of which it is built, whe
ther of brick, stone or wood, and what part of
each, as well as to the outside walls as inftde or
* partition walls, and their r<Jpedlive height and
' (hickne'B ; >lie style of the roof and of what
c materials ; howfecured by battlements or pa>-
J ty walls ; what kind of access to the top of the
e house and to the ehimnie, 4 whether any and
what eleftric rods ; the number and kind of
fire pi tees ; and the kind of depoGc for ashes.
.3d. Ihe dimensions of the building and how
divided, and the style in which it is finifhed so
as to enable indifferent [*rfons to judge in what
manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe oi
injury; the age and condition of the building,
- and how occupied, whether merely as a dwel
h ling house, or for any other, and far what pur
d pose ; also an estimate of the value of the lipule
> or building independent of the ground. >
5 > 4th. The situation with reipedl to other build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
riot, comprehending at least one hundred feet
each way : what kind of buildings are within
that difl2Bce,' how built, of what materials, and
how occupied or improved, whether as dwel
l.ngs for private families or otherwise : whe
ther any and what trade or manufactory is car
al riedon, and particularly whether there be any
, s extra hazardous articles used, or ufuaHy depo
i sited in the house, or within the diltanc< afore
.ll said, and of what kind.
3« Rtfpedling gpods in Houfti, Warehouses, &c.
■ft I. A peneiaf description of the building in
11, which they are kept will be expedled, similar in
d all M'pefls, as to the danger from lire, with that
rs required for Insurance 011 the buildings them
selves.
z. A description of the kinds and nature of
1 the goods, whether in calks or other packages,
|. or opeiKd ; and whether displayed in whole
l le pieces or in tha usual form for retailing. And
if the goods vary materially in kind, a general
ellimate of the value of oach kind proposed to
he insured ; but 1A the lalt particular minute
ncli of description is not expeiled.
3. Articles of the following kinds are deem-
U• ed extra hazardous, though in various degrees,
ig- in whatever building they may be placed, viz.
nd pitch, tar, turpentine, rolm, wax, tallow, oil,
>m inflammable 1 pirits, hemp, flax, cotton,
dry goods of an inflammable kind opened-
GMfs r chi*a ware or porcelain, especially un-
packed; Looking gbflcs, jewelery ; and all 0-
1:1 ther articles mors than commonly inflammable,
or it ore than commonly liable to injury by sud
den removal or by muifluris, or particularly
x ~ obnoxious ** theft 011 in alarm ef fire.
Letters p dl paid, dirjdicd to the Secretary of
C 0 the Board of Direilors, will be duly attended
to. An order for InfuranceaccOmpanied by ihe
■ o( j means of paying the premium, will be imme
diately executed .m the premium being paid. If
li. t/.c ap|>iicalion contain an enquirj only, it will
; || be anfevered.
|>e By order of the Board,
a- EBENEZEK HAZARD,
1- OJia of tie Insurance Company o/"NortV )
ft America j Pi'ilad. Feb. I> 17984 5
Feb. 14-
p.
.. ... . . ' ZCI
PHILADELPHIA, j l a "'
TUESDAY EVENING, April 10 ch
Extrai7 of a letterfrom a gentleman in Vir- *£■
ginia to a gentleman in Philadelphia, t ei
! bearing date March 16, 1798. a "
| " i?y laji mail I received yours of the f (1
, 6'A inclosing Claypoole's paper, which con- th
tainedihe Preftdenfs mejfagt, accompany-
ing a letter from our envoys. The contents j. th
of this letter seem U have made "a very feri- I ° l
0./s impression here. The situation in which j C c
our envoys were ftfferid to remain h hng
boded no good to us, but hipeJli/l lived. At j
present tus eppear to have no other alt emu- ta<
tive, than either of abandoning the ocean -jj
entirely, orfufferir.g our trade t) defend it- j fe
jelf, -which many think would inevitably !
had to war. The anti-government men are ft
• in favor of the former meafura, and irtJW j
. that war mull be the confluence of arming t |
our merchant vessels. Ido not think it cer- b
tain that any conduct can ensure us peace,
■ and perhaps our be/} policy will be to pursue a
, measures, not offenfive, but calculated to
1 create in us an ability to repel attacks, ti
| which we cdnnot avoid, prom thefriend- y
: Ihip or jujlice of France we have nothing f,
1 to cxpeEl. On our own spirit and wisdom
; we mutt under heaven-depend. It is really j n
1 an awful crijis with us, and requires the 1 o
r cook/} and pureQ deliberation of every one : V
who has any agency in American affairs. | y
f And I wljh i' were pojfible that the members ; j.
" of congress could for a whileforget their tin- g
imoftties, and harmoniously unite in prov'ul- n
1 ing for the true interells of their country ;
_ all eyes will be nowfixed on them, and the
- real trill be eaftly dijlingutfhedfrom the pre- 0
' tended patriots. It may be impojfible for j
e all to think alike refpefting the causes of our r .
disagreeable situation • but crimination can J
- answer no good purpose, and it is the duty, c
and it is in the power of every one, ti con- 1
e tribute his aid to avert the evils that threat- <
en us. ' j
The issue »f the foreign intercou-fe con- ,
r tefl gives me pleasure, as I really think it 1
> could not have terminated otherwise with- 1
n out violating the conjlitufohl
- :
>r MR. FENNO,
i If the important fubje&s now before ,
iJ the public does not occupy all your pa- i
per, be pleased to insert the following.
I observed in a late paper a String of
as questions relating to the institution and
adminiftratiort of the Pennsylvania Hof
pita! ; addressed to the world by a writer
under the signature of Medicus Studio
ie fus, and I have seen answers to them in
'£ another Paper, under the signature of a
re Contributor ; I was much pleased at the
er profpeft of obtaining information on so
d important a fubjeft as the abuses of the
e- managers of that charity and was not a
little disappointed at finding nothing new
)d on it; for Mr. Contributor has not said
at a word more in defence of the Managers
l le than has been all along said by them and
id their friends, and the committees of' the
ot general afiembly who have annually vifit
iw ed it since its foundation, and very little
lo credit can be attached to such partial evi
dence as the parties and their patrons. —
g, But there is another fubjeft on which I
should be glad to have some information,
ile It has been often said and I think I
d have seen it in some of the newspapers
or that doftor Franklin by his will bequeath
ret ed several millions of pounds sterling to
charitable and public uses, among which
el- the Pennsylvania Hospital was ranked as
ie " a legatee to the amount of some thouf
ny ands, fufficient at least to finifli the
>0- building. Now permit me to alk this
re " Mr. Contributor a question or two on this
kc. fubjeft, and let us fee whether he can
! u pick up from reports of committees of
lat afiembly any such trite and thrscd bare
m * answers as he has given (scarcely new
0 f vamped) to Mr. Medicus his questions.
es, I. Pray what was the amount of the le
nd S 3c y bequeathed by doctor Franklin
r»l ta the Pennsylvania Hospital.
,u 11. Why have not the Managers demand
ed and received the money,
m- 111. Why are they continually teazing
the legislature for grants of money to
oil, finifh the building when by a little at
-0 tention to this fund, they might with
un . less trouble get enough of their own for
' the purpose they seem to have at heart.
IV. What authority had the Managers
trly to build the House in the aukward
o j. riianner which Medicus Studiofus re
ied presents it.
t " he Laicoj Parum Doctus.
he-
If
From the South-Carolina Stale Gazette.
Vl It is acknowledged on all hands that the
present situation of the United States is beyond
example critical : Thaf their molt precious
interells and more precious independence, £re
to all appearance deeply implicated in the
pafiing lcenes both at home and abrqad—and
that tliP next moment may bring forth events
ig with tiie fate of America. But it is a wj
ly.flery hard to be accounted for,' that these gr
ruths are received with apathy by our citi- us
eiu ; enquired about as articles of ordinary eq
itelligence or common place speculations)
nd inditTerently blended with conversations ci
oncerningVeather, and news, atld the casual In
jiit chat of the day. If the people were not fcli
very hour scourged with the Ulh ot foreign
ggrelTion, and agonizing under the wounds m
oiirtantly repeated from tlie oui pre-> 1
ended friends, it might be said that they are
ifleep ; walking with careless but unconfei
>u's (teps upon the verge yt a.precipice. In T,
"uch cale it might be reafonablv hoped that
he CiMtnd of danger would arouse them to
ipen their eyes, an 4 that they would at once
~ee and (hun the ruin before them. But the th
thing to be lamented is not that we do not fee T
jur danger, but that we fee as though we (aw ;
it not. The found has not gone abroad, is
:chosd round the globe, and is reverberated
un our own lliores—yet it is as " a founding j pi
brafsand a tinckling fymbai while the w
eyes of all Europe are turned upon us with j pi
anxious expettation, we return them a vacant ■ I
(tare expreflive of 110 emotion- Knowing the w
injuries that have ad'ailed us, and <Ji(tinctly a
feeing the-danger that threatens us, they are tc
(tonidied at our ftipinenefs and (implicit'/ in
neglecting all the rational means of felt-pre- f t
fervation. EA(*rience lias taught them all
in their turn (aiiAwell may they b. - a(toni(hed )•
that we profit nothing by their experience) ft
that 110 national calamity is so great as that ot 0
being overtaken by wardeftitute of eliential c ,
preparation. It might well be presumed, t ]
that if we are too proud or too thoughtless to t ]
avail ourselves of the dear bought experiense •]
of other nations, we would fiill not beunwil- n
ling to profit by ourpwn—that the recollec
tion of misfortunes which many amongst us j.
yet living teftify, would admonilh us irre- v
(iftably to negltil no means necsirary to repel f
fiidden inva(ion.
But so it is—neither our own fufferings nor
the example of others, In part time?, nor the
near approach of imiment danger can rouse j
our spirit or alarm us into preparation. While j
we lee the cloud moving on which bears in
its bosom the thunders destined for our heads, (
we are amusing ourselves with idle specula- (
tions upon its appearance, or admiring the t
splendid colorsiv. liich it reflefls to'the eve. (
So the poet speaks of the (imple lamb defli- (
ned for the (laughter—
" Pleas'd to the last, he crops the flowery food, j
" And licks the hand just rais'd to (hed his blood." j
Do we not believe that we are tipon the eve 1
of a rupture with France? Let him whochu- (
fes to deceive himfelf, be deceived —but let ;
him who is asleep open his eyes and-believe. j
The opinion of our cosumidioners in that ,
country is no secret : and indeed, if fymp- ;
toms (trongly marked and hourly" repealed, .
ought ever to evince the reality ,of danger ; it ,
is with us not afubjeft for demanftration, but
of vision and belief. And if invasion does ,
come, where may we expeii't it to fall ? If we (
judge our enemies to be fools, then may we
expetl it will not fall upon us. If we believe
them so infatuated in policy as to prefer to at- (
tack the strongest part instead of the weakest,
to choose a doubtful conflift instead of an easy ,
prey, then may we believe that their views
will be directed to the northern instead of the
southern states. If we can persuade ourselves
that the acquisition of a port near to their
islands, and abundantly convenient for the
war they will wage, will be by them held less -
in estimation than one more remote, less con
venient for purpofe, more difficult to
gain and more doubtful to hold ; then may
CharleftQii dismiss immediate apprehensions.
But let u"s hug no fatal delusion ; let us allure
ourselves in time, that there are too many
powerful and local reasons to admit of a doubt
that Charleflon will be the firft to realize the
war, if a war there should be.
Then is it true, my fellow citizens (for I'
•am speaking of that which concerns us all)
that with the profpedt of a war tull in our
view, with a moral certainty that if it comes
it comes firft upon us, and is likely to find us
in a Itate so deltitute of preparation, that the
spirit ot our citizens (capable of every tiling
when well supported and well applied) may
only serve to swell the aggregate of our cala
mity—l fay is it poflible that in this situation,
where all that is dear to us m«y be suddenly
put to hazard, the government is taking 110
concern for us,,and we are taking no mea
sures for ourselves i Of what avail to us will
be pur corps of infantry, cavalry and artille
ry, with the noble ardor that inspires them,
while out harbour is undefended, and our
city liable to the Aiccefsful adault of any na
val force, however inconsiderable i Is it for
us who are every hour exposed, who have e
very thing to dread and little to hope—is it
for us, I (ay, to imbibe the torpor of the fe
deral government : and because theyfhew no
concern for us, to feel no l'olicitude for our
selves ? Ip the name of all that is dear to us
let us rouse from our lethargy—the precious
moments of negociation (it not already ended)
ought no longer to be fquar.dercd away in
thoughtless inactivity. Do you ask what I
would do ? I would h,[ft of all lay before Ccfri
grefs, in language that would (limulate their
attention, the grievances under which we la
bour— For I call it a grievance, when the
whole nation neglects a weak and vulnerable
part, peculiarly exposed to the dangers and
calamities of war. The very basis of our
union is declared to be " to provide tor the
common defence," and I would besiege them
with the voice of complaint and invoke that
copiman fro-vi/ion which has been mod (hame
fully withheld. I would thunder at the gates
of this deeping Congress, in language that
would rouse them to'a sense of our dangers,
and of the protection which we have a right
.to claim from the Uniqn. I would lay them
under the neceflity of either receiving oj re
jecting eur petition—we (hall then have dif
' charged our duty to ourselves, and the worst
1 calamity that can b'efal us will have its conso
lation. If after a fruitlefs application on our
part this opulent city Ihould be taken orpil
■ laged, or laid under ruinous contribution, the
justice of the union cannon refufe to (hare
in our calamity, by making us an adequate
J recompense. They ran alledge neither that
, they were ignorant of our danger or unap
pnzed ot our weakness, and (till less can they
' controvert our constitutional right to have
1 had their seasonable proteftion. If the voice
of importunity and remonstrance should fail,
it will then remain for us to consider whether
. private contribution, & that fpeedily,is not to
be preferred to our continuing in a defence
lefs date. And (houfd such a measure be gone
1 into, and events juftify it, the previous ap
. plication to Congress will drengthen ourclaim
upon their jultice and remuneration. Last
ly, let them be told that the legillature of
this date have refilled to provide for the de
fence of the fea-coalt, principally upon the
ground that both the right and the duty ap
pertain to ihe Union,
j My motion therefore is, that a memorial to
Congress be immediately prepared, copies
druck off, perfon appointed (perhaps
the wardens) in each ward 111 the city, toten
j dcr it to the citizens for signature. Let it be
haflcned forward before the feilion draws to
wants a dole that Congress may have timo to
give it that conflderation, and take thut order
upon it, which our fat'ety and the'ir duty will
equally dictate. '
If this proportion be right in point of prin
ciple and expediency, it will be feconJed ;
but whether or not, the writer will have dif
fchartjed what he takes to bo the duty of
A CITIZEN. -
%
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE
Tranjlated for the Argus from Paris papers of
'January i?— 3' •
COUNCIL OF FIVE HUNDRED.
Coupe—'(member from the North Coatt) read
the following letter from the celebrated patriot
Thomas Paine :
Thomas Paine to the Council ofFfr'e Hundred.
Citizen-Kepi efentatives,
Though it is not convenient to me, in the
present iiruation of my affairs to aid the loan to
wards the descent upon England, my economy
permits me to xiiake a small patriotic donation.
I fend an kundred livres, and with it, all the
wishes of my heart for the success of the descent,
and a voluntary (Jifer of any service I can render
to promote it,
There will be n<> tailing peace for France nor
for the world, until the tyranny and coriaption
of the Ertgltfh" government be aholilhef), and
England, like Italy, become a fitter republic.—
As to those men, whether in England, Scotland,
or Ireland, who, like-Robefpierte in France, are
covered with crimes, they, lile* him, have no o
ther resource, than in committing more ; but
the mass of the people are"friends to liberty—
Tyranny and taxation oppiefs theme but tfeey
merit to be free. ft
Accept, citizen representatives, the congratu
lations of an ancient colliafue on the dangers
we have pafled, and on the happy profpeil be
fore us.
Salut et refpeift.
THOMAS PAINE.
The orator said—" The gift ot Tljomas Paine
is trifling indeed—but comnated to the revolt
ing injustice this faithful fricrrd to liberty has
luflfered by our government, and the poverty of
our colleague ; you wi'l in this view End he has
done much. I dernand, therefore, that the let
ter of Thomas Paine be printed, and til at hon
orable mention be made. These two propoli
tions were adopted with unanimity.
Gamier —By a motion of order en tered on the
fiibjeft of the infldiou3 attempts which had been
iaduftrioufly employed for fcveral days to circu
late a report of an existing rfiifcnderltanding be
tween the dire<fiory and the legislative body —
also among the members of the diredlory ; he
proves the whole plot to be the invention of a
remaining desperate ariflocracy to influence the
infurreflion ; and that the agents of the detest
able Pitt, have been a£U\re in circulating these
detestable lies
Uiou—agreeable to the order of the day, drew
the attention of the aflembly Upon the neceflity
of employing all eur efforts (in seconding the
views of the government) to our marine, to en
able us gloriously to combat the proud Englilh
on" their own element. I d*tr,and, fayt he,
that the various reports iromtpe commSltieners
of the marine be conttantly attended in piefer
' ence to every other objedt, the finances only ex
cepted.
MILAN, j6 Nivofe.
' Our great council has declared on Bragaldi's
' motion, that the Cisalpine republic do not ac
knowledge any bilhops—that the ex erior o'rnj
' ments of that corrupted body are abohlhed, and
tkat'fuch of them who within the repub
lic, prebends, or ether benefices, mufl renounce
: them within 24 hours, ench To he put to his
oath, and eveiy defaulter shall be expelled from
' the republic in 3 days, ar.d all tl.e eft'etSls seized
for the. republic. To the surprize of the w hole
, y assembly, the membfr Dandi 10, undertook to
deietid thebifnop Chiaramouti, who wiflxed the
aid of the curates to explain their eccUliaftical
rights. Dsndolo hypotririraUy observed, that
the curates dare not aflbciatewith irreligieusper
lons, for fear of drawing upon themselves the
~ r vengeance of an offended God.
RASTADT, January 18.
A conferenee took place yesterday between
' the ministers cf France and the minister count
' a Metternich. Soon after which ihe former wait
ed 011 baron Albany, directorial minister of '
j Mcr.tz, to whom he made the following decla
tion :
" That in conformity to ordSrs and inftrufl
'r ions, they have received from their govern
ment, they tieclare to the deputation of the em
r pire, that the limits to the Khine shall be the
balls of the treaty of peace to be concluded."
t To-morrow the deputation of the empire will
open the sessions. Ihe imperial minister will
0 preside, and doubtless, the declaration of the
. ministers of France will be the firft ohjeft in
s diicuilion.
') FRANKFORT, Jan. 19.
n From Turkey we learn, that the Porte has
1 taken serious measures against the rebeb. Sixty
thoiifand dollars it promised for the head of the
r Pacha ofWididn. The Seraftiurof Romalie
j. has marched at the head of Bo,o'omen, towards
e Bofuie.
e It is also faid,that tiie captain Pacha will enter
d into Daiiube with a fleet to second his move
r ments.
e TO BE SOLD,
5 A Very Valuable Farm,
SITUATE on theNeihaminy creek, Buck'scouu
■s 'y. con t ami' g about 148 acres, of which about 30
It acr e9 are cs£ cclltn t wootl-laud ; the reinabdej mcu
s, dow and plough land, and in a highly cultivated
it state ; tire whole under port and rail fence, chiefly
n new l»(t l'ußuiier. On the prcmifes are a log-houfi
'• and ham. The situation for a eourtry feat is per-
I- haps one of the moll eligible in the vicinity of Phi-
It ladelphia, lying- 011 the Ntfhaminy, with the ad
)- vantage of a landing piece within 100 yarjsof the
jr farm-houfc, and commanding a very excenfive view
I- of the surrounding country : itisabcut three quart
ie ers of a mile from the floating bridge, J7 3-4
re miles from Philadelphia, and 11 ] miles from Brif
te tol. For terms of tale and further information ap
at P'l to Thomas Benger.F.fq. iu Bristol, or
j- WILLIAM WALN,
;y No. South Secend ltreet.
re April *• 3tawtf
: , e Joseph Ricardo,
City, Merchant, has alfigned his pro
to VV perty for the benefit of his Crediiow, to James
c _ C. Fiflier, Samuel W. Fisher, and Thomas Wilson.
Ie All persons who have demands are re
). quelled to furnifh their accounts without delay—,
m and those indebted to make immediate pa^men' to
the Subscribers, aiiling A fligneos.
of James C. cS* Samuel JV. Fibber.
e- No. 13, Arch Street,
lie march 31 " 4t^wtf
S ALI P El RE,
to
es One liundretl kegs of refined Salt Petrc,
For Sale by the Subscribers.
James C. & Samuel IV. Fijher,
No. 13, Arch Street
march Jl 4taw;fJMl—— —W Wl W »<i I>ll■W W' 1' 1 '
By this day's Mail. c
■ — l t<
NEW-YORK, April 9. r<
From the Argus. g
The fiiip Viftoria, capt- R. Fanning, art!
rived on Saturday froM Bourdeaux, whith si
port (he left on the 10th, and Cordovan on
the 20th of February.
Fanning informs, that all the mer- if
chant (hips at Bourdeaux were in a (late of a
rrquifition ; that a fleet with provisions for >
Bred foon to fail ; that 16,000 tons
of wine had been purchafcd up by govern
ment, for the Englilh expedition, preparati- =
one for which were making in every port in
France, and fubfcription3 were yet open, to
which all classes of people fubferibe as they -
can afford. j
Accounts at Bourdeaux, on the fubjeft
of our commissioner?, were so various and
contradittory, that no confidence sould be
put in them. Little business doing, and no
insurance to be had. C
It was reported an embargo would fi>on r
be laid. Americans were well treated—
American produce low, except tobacco.
Capt. Farming has favored us with a file \ I
of Bourdeaux paper* to February 10, in
clusive. v
Thcle one day from Paris huer ;
Ihau w; have had, riit. Feb., 5.
The Executive Diredtory on that day, j :
the Lemauiqne Republic.
Citilen Garrat goes ainbaflador to the (
Cifalpint Republic.
It was reported at Paris, Feb. 5. that
the c'epntics of the Princes and '
electors of the Empire returned "from ; ■
Rafladt, after their deliberations on
lis of the negociation, proposed by the
French miuitler on receiving the news of the
fur render of the fort of the Rhine.
The king of Naples has acknowledged
the Cisalpine Republic and named D.
"Michervoiix his miniller plenipotentiary to
reside at Milan.
Commissioners were to-meet at Bade on
the 10th Feb. to make £ new constitution.
A revolution was compleatly effected in
that canton of S weitzerland.
A chain of ports have been established
from Oltend all along the coast of the ci-de
vant Dntch Flanders, furnifiied with signals
of communication. The fame measures
been pursued on the frontiers ofthe Ba
tavian Republic, and to the line which an
ciently separated Luxemberg from the elec
torate of Treves.
The French arret has so fatal an effeft
upon the commerce of Great-Britain, that
on the l 27th of Jan. at Lloyd's, in London,
40 pr. ct. iafuraiTce on foreign reflels, was
refufed.
From the Daily Gazette.
The ViSoria, from her having left Bour
deax on tire 15th February, ought to have
brought some news—but we hear nothing
but the continued exertions of French pre
parations for the invafipji of England. A
gentleman, horwtver, has promised us the
loan of late French papers, which, wepre
futne, will contain something new.
PER THE VICTORIA.
By letters from Bourdeaux, dated the Ift
and 14th of February, we are informed
that.the law authorising the ccnfifcation of
all neutral veflVls havfng British goods or
manufaftures on beard, took place the 4th
of February.
On the 9th of February, accounts were
received there,,that all the English mer
chantman Hamburgh (hould depart immedi
ately. Thisisfaid to be a conftqucnce of
the above law.
It is also said, that troops have been or
dered to march to Hamburgh, Altona, and
Bremen, to prevent the impoitation of
English goods.
No infuraij.ee, excepting against the dan
gers of the seas, can be effefted on Amer
ican vefTels, and they difTuaded their cor
refporulents from making any shipments in
the present Hate of affairs.
A Gentleman arrived in town yesterday,
informs, that in the dorm 011 Tuesday night
last the frigate Constitution, in the harbour
of Boston, having her. port-holes open, fil
led and funk. We have heard no further
particulars.
BOSTON, April 3.
TOWN- MEETING.
Yeflerdav in conformity -to the diredtiofi
of the Constitution of the State, the citi
zens throughout the Commonwealth aflem
bled to give their fuffrages for mete and
suitable prrfons to serve them as Governor,
Lieutenant Governor and Senators. In
this town two lifts were offered. One was
forme-il at Concert Hall, where the fuppcrt
erß of government generally assemble previ
ous to an election.. The other was made
by the correfpondent3 of, and promulgated
t!«ro»gW the Chronicle, the organ of the
pppofers nf our Federal Administration. In
some Candidates both fide6agreed,They were
therefore chosen with unanimity- The new
candidates properly exhibit the strength
the opponents.
CONCERT HALL LI SI.
GOVERNOR.
His Excellency Increase Sumner 1461
IT. GOVERNOR.
Hir Honor Moses Gill >,557
SENATORS.
Hon. Thomas Dawes 1283
Oliver Wendell *574
[ohn Collin Jones '2^3
Thomas Dawes i 2 79
CHRONICLE LIST.
' GOVERNOR.
Hon. James Sullivan 103
it- governor.
Hon. Moses Gill [as above]
S*N ATOSS,
Hon. Oliver Wendell [a/ oboxrj
James Bowdoin 298
William Tudor 292
J. Codman ■ 28s
Ja fonts (.f tli* *./tcs the Chronicle insert- T
ed, from itiotires of policy, the prefrnt
Governor, and thfrTtcd among the : r Stnn
tors,-fome Federal charafters,/for tli fame gj
resfon,. but all their exertions, ,all their in-
genuity, could not prevent the fuecefi of (ll
the lift, which the Federaliils had agreed to f
fnpport. • . ,
There is no doubt that the pnfept Chief ~,
Magiflrate and the rt-fpeclable second Mag- k,
iflrate wi'l be re chosen to fill the fame (itu- so.
atiosn, by a very cmfiderable majority. m
%ijc oa3ette; £
PHILA DELPHIA y f' 1
T Hi
MONDAY EVENING, April g. »•
Extratt of a letter from Lifboti, dated 15
Peb. 1 798, by the Republican, captain
Simpfon, arrived at Baltimore.
" I have this moment Teen an extract
of a letter from lord St. Vincent to corn- ■
miffioner Coffin (the Britifli commiffion
i er here) of which the fallowing is a co-
I pv.
, Ville _de Paris at Sea, I o Feb. 1798.
"We were joined yeftcrday Sy theCul-
Ipden and Akmena, io that we iiave eve
ry thing with us except the Zealous. I
have dispatched the Flora cutter in qi»cft:
of her and am in pursuit of the enemy.''
"The plan would seem to have been to
chace admiral Parker from before Cadiz,
j and (i rive him from the coast and then
! get into Brest, by which the convoy i ;
would have got fafeto Cadiz and the long. 0
promlfed junction made with the Breit r
fleet; but Parker pursued by the Spanish j
admiral,' fleered for Lisbon, off which |
he was immediately joined by Xorcl St. j ]
Vincent, and then they chafed in turn r
the Spaniards. You will fee that Lord 1
St. Vincent was in chafe of them on the
tenth, and he only failed from hence the
morning of the 9th. We are in mo- ;
mentary expectation of further and im- 1 '
portant .intelligence."
Extract of a letter from an Officer on board the
Frigate Conjlellation, near the mauth of Pa- \
tapfco River, 6th April 1798.
" At 6 A. M. we got under way, with I
the wind at North, and proceeded from our j
movings, a little above the fort to this ari- '
chorage, we came too on account of :
the wind changing to the Eastward—the j
{hip performed remarkably well, and (leered ]
- like a boat, though very much by the head
a-trim i: was neceflary to put her in on ac- j
count of the fhoalnefsof the river. It was
a pleasing fight to those, who wiih well to
their country, to fee this frigate under dou
bled reefed topsails, couriers, jib and (lay
fails only, and out of trim as I have dated,
run ahead of every thing that was in com
pany going down with all their light fails
set."
In the House of Representatives of the Uni
. ted States, yelterday, the house we'ht into a
committee of the whole on the State of the j
Union, and after poftpeming by unanimous con
-1 sent the consideration of Mr. Sprigg's motion j
which was for some days under debate
, before the late Dispatches from our Mintf
ers at Paris were communicated, the re
faction proposing the sum of dollars for
1 the completing and repairing of our fortifica
• tions and harbours, was agreed to, almost
without debate, with the following words ad
. ded as an amendment, " and ibat tbePrefidcnt
[ of the United States be authorized to maiefucb ad
r ditional and other fortifications as the common de
fence Jhaltfeem to require. The committee also
agreed to the resolution reported on the peti
-1 tion of the New York Chamber of Commerce
• refpefting the fortifications of the harbour of
. that city. The resolutions were confirmed by
, the house, and a bill ordered to be reported ac
cordingly. Mr. Sewali. from the Commit
tee for the protection of Commerce and for
the Defence of the Country, made a farther
> report, proposing to atithorife lite Prefi
t denttoraife companies of Ar
r tillerifts andEngiueers, in addition to the pre
sent establishment ; and that
dollars be appropriated for the purchase
r of cannon arms and ammunition for the ser
vice of the United States, which was com
mitted to the the whole on the
State of the Union. A number of reports of
committees was disposed of, and some other
, business done, which, with some observations
which took place in the committee of the
whole on the (late of the Union, (hall be gi
" ven to morrow.
3 Nt
> DIED] —At Boston on the second |in»
1 fta»t the Rev. John Clarke, D. D. min
s ifler of the firft congregational church in
• that town. The death of this gentleman
" is a public misfortunes Science, philofo
e phy and religion have loft an enligtheued
and diitiuguifhed friend and advocate.
e
" DIED] —At Buckingham in Worcefler
N county, Maryland, on the 2d March lajl,
,f of a lingering illness, the Rev, John Ran
kin tuvijler of the Presbyterian church in
that place, inhere he had. rtfided nearly
tiutnty years. The amiable private virtues
1 he pojj'ejfed, joined to'his popular talents as a
j preacher of the go/pel, render his loss truely
definable to the public, and particularly to
0 his congregation, who are now diflitute of
+ minifltrial duties.
3 j _
9 E.xtraiA of a« letter from Lifljon, dared Febru
ary 14. J?9*.
«< The late decree of the councils, by the re
3 commendation of thedireiHorv, i'a declaration
1 of war not only airainlt the United States,but
1 ' all the neutral powers: It declaies ihat all vefl'-
J ; e's having un i»u il i ntlifn good. fliall lie law
-1 t'ulpiiir, willinnf repaid to the quality r.ftlie
-• owner- In conftqiienre «f this decirr, ilie A
-Ir.eric.ln merchanti of Lontl n have lied for
2 a convoy to the minif.ri vkho rcrai*ily granted
B one, to fail ill MaitU" '
Titeß'MAirtf>"Ttr& a Shadow op ooubt, ?
that the whole neffociatirm arneu on with
the Envoys < f t|ie United Sta'cs was a ne :
(jociation with the Direftory itfelf. This "
mull be t' e fpont?n*-ou3 judgment of every
unprejudiced reader of the P.fpatchcs. — a
Talleyrand, *nd the subordinate agents, on "
the contrary supposition,. placed their necks v
under the ax of the Guillotine—and they r '
knew that a hint from (he Envoys would fl
have cofl them their lives. Another de
mondrative circumllance is the decree for
feiz ng and making prize of all neutral vef- d
Ms carrying British propyty. This de
creee was to have been fufpcrided on om-
pliance with the infamous propofitions—au
intimatk)H which could nat have come from c
any other quarter than that of the Direc- ar
tor y- Z
ol
Mr. 'Fen NO,
You will oblige the Mifiionary Society by
inserting the following in your paper of
this evening. ( j
At an adjourned meetingof the Philadelphia j
Mifiionary Society, on Monday evening
April 9th the following members were e- J
leAed aH adling committee for the enfu- "
ing year. _
Dr. Joseph Strong
Dr. Isaac Haylin ,
Charles Crawford, Esq. v
George Morton h
Richard Weville l '
William M'Laws
John Hoff
Dr. 8.-nj; min Rush—Treasurer v
John Hobfon—Secretary. r
Any person disposed to become 3 mem-
ber, or to give encouragement and ufeful
1 information is requeued to apply to either (
of the gentlamcn composing the above com-
mittee. ,
i ' 1
7*e Correspondents. <
Letter 3 from Eugenius, is received—we <
: have several objedlions to pilblifhing this :
number—One is our, ignorance of the au- '
th'or.
(C/* The Merchants and Traders of this
City, are requejled to meet at the City Taif~
em to-morrrtv, prectfely at one o'clock on
b'uftnefs of importance.
April 10.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED days.
Ship Fame, Jones, St. Übes ji
: Sehr. Seaflower, Mann, Alexandria 7
Rally, Kearny, Norfolk 9
CLEARED.
Ship Glasgow, Alcrn, Laguira
' I Brig-Maria, Woodwaid, St.Creix
1 Schr. Polly & Sally, Pearfon, Port Margot
1 Eliia.Shaw, Cape Franeois
Amity, Hammond. Savannah
Sloop Mary, Gamble, Havanna
Two Brothers, Winarit Norfolk
Mary & Sally, Bradford Boston
ThfSwedifh (hip Swereger, Rigfdag, Nan
' nings, fr< m hence has arrived at Lisbon
The (hip Fame left St. Übes before the Ann,
arrived lali week at Alexandria, therefore brings
nothing new.
1 A (hip inward bound was seen off Marcus
: I Hook'this.morn ing. The Port-au-Prince
• fleet with a number of other vessels for the
' i East and Weft Indie? went to sea on Satur
j day last.
r New-Tori, April 9.
ARRIVED. - bays
I Ship Vitfloria, Fanning, Rourdeaux 45
Albemarle, Guthrie, Malaga J7
t Schr. Sally, Elmfley, Halifax it
Capt. Fanning inferms, that about 30 fail
- were getting in readiness at Bourdcaux, which
0 we-e to fail for Bred about the firft of March,
- to join the fleet there. That all the wine in
e France is put inreqmfitionintendedforthelinvafll
t ers of England—That an embargo was cxpeil
y cd before the failing of the fleet.
Capt. F. spoke an Englilh frigate jufl after he
- left the Cordovan.
r Capt F. brought no dispatches from our
r commifiioners at Paris.
There were about 30 fjil of American veflVls
- at Bourdeaux, but none sent in there lately by
" privateers.
Capt. EHery, arrived at Boston, spoke March
e 19, lat. 38, long. 69, (hip Joseph, Armour, from
Amderdam, bound to this port, out 95 days.^
e f NORFOLK, March 3 1
r Yesterday arrived here the schooner Li
s fbon, captain Drummond, in 13 dnys frora
e Porto Rico Captain Drummond brought
- home with him two mailers, four mates, and
twelve feamcn, Americans, belonging to dif
ferent vessels captured by French privateers
" and sent into that island.
The following is a correfl lift Ameri
" cans at Porto llico, captured since the id
B January; most of which are condemned.
Ship New-Jerfey,C!ay, of Philadelphia from
China.
—Mercury, or New Hampshire.
—Rose, King, of New-York
r —Kitty , Philadelphia.
}, Brig Maria, Cotton, of New-York, from
Gibraltar.
Robecca, , of New-York.
" —Fox, Dickfon, of Charledot),
y —Mary, Young, of Newburyport.
—Ntrptune, Gruzert, ofNew-Yorlc.
a —Hannah, Harting, of Newburyport.
, Schooner Intrepid, Willcinfon, of Norfolk.
Friendfhip.——, of Lyme.
to —r—Cynthia, Mufen, Wilming^ion.
if Telegra.phe, Ardlington, Baltimore
from Havanna.
Prefidcnt, of( Penobfcot.
j. The brij Telegraphe, M'Kinney, of
Charlefton,was'captured on the 2 3d of Janua
e ry, on her passage from Martinque to Gre
" nadft, by a Guadaluupe privateer, and cari-
J 1 ed to St. Eudatia, »)urc the reffcls and
t , cargo was condemned'
BOSTON, April 2.
■ t Copt. FAlery, from the flreighti, Informs,
that 37 days Jince, he saw a ptirt rf the En
e/i/l fleet off Cthlr., zvhich from appearance
had not leen engaged.
Crpt. PreMe, from Port au- Prince, informs
that on the loth February a detachment aj l / 1,
French forcer, attached, and tool pojjrjjicn of i a
a conftderalle fort, about fix miles from the t<*
above place', lut that it was immediate j in- th
Defied by a fir on' detachment of English, and j"'
retaken—in both these attals much blood zvas ,
... J be
ft" 1 '- cd
to
PROVIDENCE, (R. I ) March 31. f a
Monday lad arrived at Newport the (hip Are'.hufa,
Durkin, from Bengal sot Netv-Yoik
Just TiiH'i or Thanks.
The N< » port I.rn--Wh<rr (. Hotel and Pichlic
School Lottery, his railed ' 1 550 dollars and 14 rer ts.
The macagofs (Messieurs George Gibbsand Georte P l
Champ'injhtive accounted to the truftecs for the avails. m
and received then bna» i itnouithanks, " for their great at
exertions an/J laitMulncfs in the management of the
lottery, and for their generosity in declining 10 accept th
of anycommidion or compcnfation." fli
BALTIMORE, April 6. Ec
Arrived this day,—schooner America, cap- th
tain Vibert, 20 days from Jeremie, la(t from r (a
the Mole, which (he left under convoy, 17 pi
days ago. _ tl
When captaia V. arrived at the •Mole, from tl
Jeremie, a Bfitifh (loop of war waflying there, tv
which failed lor Jamaica the'day after. She (c
was 18 days from Cadiz, charged with dis
patches from admiral Jervis before that place.
t she information-gathered by her arrival was,
that the Spanifli fleet of very superior force,
with 200 fail of merchantmen under convoy, ~
had put to sea ; and as their destination was f
unknown, difpatcheswere sent to the differ- "
ent ports in the Weft Indies, fi?r all (hips of
war to keep themselves 011 the look out. Ad
miral Parker, who was lying at the Mole,
with 7 fail of the line, and several frigates, was
making vigorous preparations for sea.
We have received the following letter from
the ftibfcriber, who requests its publication. r
Gentlemen if the United States of America,
You will think drange of this, I suppose;
but you mufl be on the look out. I afliire you,
there are about thirty French privateers get
ting ready to cruise rauncfthe Capes of Vir
ginia, and round the Northern parts of your j [
: country. lam confined here and cannot get
j away. There is a report here, that no Ame
„ ricans (hall be permitted to go to their native
homes until they have further accounts from
America. They are taking your vedels as fad
as they can. They are muflering troops to
r fend awav to all the ifiands. They expect you
will declare war, and fay they are ready for
you. They fay if you embnrgo your vetTels
z "by God they no care." You will hardly be
lieve this true, but you may rely on it for fa£l
—I am an American myfelt, and write you
this 3s friendfliip to Amerians.
BENJAMIN RYLEIGH,
Onboard of the sloop Twins, Cape Francois.
BALTIMORE, April 7.
The (hip Republican, 7 weeks from Lis
bon, is below. They informed the capt.
'• of the America, which arrived yesterday,
1 that news had reached Lisbon of our three
7 ministers hauing left Paris. [We are of o
' pinion, however, this information is not so
a late as we hare already had from France.
X ■—lll— l—
is An ACT to prevent the disturbance «/ religious
h Societies 'within the City of Philadelphia, dur
£ ' ing the time of Divine Service.
n THERE AS byalaw of the late province
VV of Pennsylvania, pal Ted the sixth day
of February, one thousand seven hundred arid
! thirty one, religious Societies were enabled
to purchase and to hold lands, for the pur
-5 pose of erecting thpreon churches and houses
of religious worship ; and all gifts, grants,
and purchases made before that time, tor the
;c purpose aforefaid, are ratified and confirmed
le by the said law, to the refpeiStive religious
r- Societies for whose.Use the said lands were
granted ; and under the faith and sanCtion of
said law, sundry feligious Societies of differ
ent denominations have been induced to pur
chase certain pieces and parcels of ground, in
% such places as were molt convenient in the
said city, and haveereded thereon, at great
' 7 expence, churches and other houses of reli
gious worship ; and by the constitution of
this Commonwealth it isdeclared, " that all
, men have a natural and jndefeafible right to
. ' worship Almighty God according to the dic
-1,1 tates of their confcienCe." And whereas it
would be nugatory to grant the said rights
without fecuririg the peaceable and quiet en
joyment of them.
le Section 1. BE it therefore enafled by the
Senate and House of Reprefentati'ves of the Com-
Jr monwealth of Pennfyli-ania in Gener&l Ajfembly
met, and it is hereby enacted by the authority of
,s the fame, Thai it shall and may be lawful to
>y .tnd for the religious Societies atoreiaid, and
each and every of them within the City of
fl Philadelphia, and they are hereby authorized
m and impowered, and each and every of them
is hereby authorised and impowered, by a
suitable person or persons by them for that
purpole to be appointed, at the proper colts
i and charges of the said religious Societies res
„ peftively, to extencrand falten so many chains
, across the flreets, lanes or alleys, an (J in fuel*
' place and manner as may be fulficient to hin
der and ob(tru6t all coaches, coachees, cha
f- riots, chaises, waggons, and other carnages
rs what soever ; and all and every person or per
sons riding or travelling on horseback, from
• pal Ting by the said churches or houses of fe
n ligious worship during the time of divine fer
vicetherein. Provided always, that the (aid
chains or any of them be not extended and
ra fade lied across the said streets; lanes or alleys,
or any of them, at a greater difiance from the
said churches or houses of religious worfliip
than twenty feet from the corner nearelt to
the'faid chain ; and provided always, that the
said chains be not extended and taltened in
' m manner aforefaid across the said streets, lanes
and alleys on any other days except Sundays,
commonly called the Lord's Day, nor on those
days until the commencement of divine Ser
vice within the (aid churches or houses of re
ligious worship refpeirtively ; and provided
alio, that the said chains (hall be taken down
and withdrawn before it is dark, and irairfe
k* diately after divine service lhall be ended
within the said houses of worfliip refpeftively.
Seft. 1. And be it further enabled by the au
ire thority aforefaid, That in all places where it
(hall be nec'efTary to ereel and fix pods in the
ground, for the purpole of fattening thereto
the chains to be extended across the streets,
lanes and alleys, in manner aforefaid, the
ta- said polls (hall be set up or fixed on tiie brick
e- pavement or foot way as near as may be to the
r ;. ltreet, without inconvenience or injury to the
I fame, and that previous to the letting up any
" port or pods fur the purpose aforefaid, by
order direction of the laid religious Soci
,eti«s, the person or perforis employed to erect
the fame 'hall give notice thereof to feme on*
us the Street Cotnmidioiiers, who is hereby
requ red toattend in purluanceoffucli notipe,
in- and to superintend and d iect thefisinjand
fettinr; tip said pcfts, so that they he lesfl in.
jur'oi.s to the (Ireets, lanes unit alleys afore
fa d. >
'Sect. 3. And be it further cn.tflrri- by the ar~
thtrity aforefrid, Tf»a/noth : ng,iirtlvivAif ro:i
lained (hall be comtrucd to authorize the ex
tending a chain or chains through cr uf.dtr,
the Market-hotife or (hunnles in High P.feet ;
and where any house of religious W or (hip (h all
beoppofite the fame, the chain or chaiiri (hail
be extended 011 erich fide thereof, and filten
ed to the ports to be erefted as aforefaid, and,.-
to some convenient part of the outside of the
said (harnbles or flails. _ x
SeCt. 4. And be it further enafled by the au
thority aforefaid, That if any attion or suit shall
be commenced or prosecuted agamft any per
son, for or by reason of any thing done in
pursuance of this Act, every person lb sued
may plead the general iflne, and give-rliL Act
and the special matter in evidence'.
Sett. 5. And be it further enatled by the au
thority aforefaid, That if any person or persons
fliall remove or cause to be removed, the pod /*
or ports, chain or chains to be erected or plac
ed by virtue of this Art, without eonfent of
the religious Society ererting or placing the
fame, every such person or persons, upon due
proof of such offcfice before any Alderman of
the said city, lhall forfeit and pay the (um of
thirty dollars, to be recovered as debts under
twenty poundsare recoverable, to be applied
so the use of the poor of the said city.
GEORGE LATIM.BR, Speaker
of the House of
, ROBERT HARE, Speaker
Hf the Senate.
"Approved, \
April 4, 1798. J
THOMAS MIFFLIN, Governor
of the Common-wealth r>fPen yfylvinig _
NEW- I'BErt. i K. 1;,.
Mr. Night.
TO-MORROW EVENING, April it,
Will he ;• relent* d (never performed In
A PLAY, interspersed with songs, in tlifte acl«,
called—
The ITALIAN MONK.
[Founded on the celebrated noyel of th It-Kan;
and writfen by the author of FentainviHe fcreft
—now performing in Louden with diftinenilhcji
applaul'e.
Schdoni, Mr. Fennell
Vit>aldi % Fox
Anfaldo, Warren
Spulatro, IVrgnell
Paulo, Hariucod
Carlo, War reII just.
Stiletto» Francis
Cor vino, Darlcy
Firjl Officer, IVarr ell
Bravoes, Mejfrs. BUJfett, 1. IVart ell, L
fcrty, \&c.
K'lena Rafalba, Mrs. Mtrry
Marcbionefs, \ Mrs. Mornj
Oli vim, Mrs. Ha t dinge
Lady Abbess, Mrs. & iijlranpj
Fiorefca, Mrs Mar ft)fill
, Gradifca, Mrs. Franois
Margaritpne, Mrs. Dcfhr
' Principal Vocal Parts» by Mis. Oldmfx on, M'fs. MA*
bourne, Mfc. v
After the Play, an Interlude, called,
> THE REGISTER OFIFCE.
? ( Tak*n from tbe Farce of that name J
To which will be added (never performed on th»
stage, a Farce, in twoa<sl®, called,
NECK OR NOTHING.
(IVritUn by Garritk J
Mr. Stock-welL MY. Warren
Sir Harry Harlcxve, Morris
Slip, Barnard
j Martin, Harivood
Belford, IViarrellyjun,
Mrs. Stockiwll t Mrs. V Eft range #
Nancy, Mfs VEJ}range
s J"»y- . . *
' C?" On Friday night, a celebrated Comi»-
I dy,called THE DESERTED DAUGH*
s TER, with a new Medley Pa tomime,
; called, THE RIVAL HARLEQUINS,
f or "IF TWO MEN RIDE UPON ONE
- HORSE, ONE MUST BE BEHIND."
For the Benefit of Mr. Frascis.
' * # * Mr. Byrne's Night will be on S»-
J tuid y next.
0" Ihe tailing ot the lhip Swift
| Packet, is jinftponedtUl Thurfri y next, ilth itift.
on.account of the had weather the last week.
J IQ
" t Schuylkill Permanent Bridge^
s r ~r"'HE books will continue open from day to
X dsy, between the hcurtor x<j, A.M..an<J
2, P. m. for receiving luhfcrip:ions, at t!ie City
e Hall. Thofit who mean to fuUforibe, will plesft
• to come providtd with cafli or bank notti, a*
y checks cagnct be taken.
f D- CALUWFLL, Secretary
j to the Commifjionrrt.
i April ic. tits
f ~ SILVER WATCHES.' *
I Ca(h will be given for any quantity of low
a priced SILVER WATCHES, by apjjlying im
t mediately at No. 15 South Fifth iffeet, betweea
s Market and Chefuut ilrte:»-
April 10. * 6t
, 5 Mr. Byrne's Seventh Ball,
II Will be on Tusfday the 10th of April, at O'Ellers'
Hot .1. Girntlemen's ticket? one dollar, to br haj
at the Hotel. Lacies' tickets of Mr and Mr»,
s Byrne, No. 111, St» h Second ftiee:. Tuiti*na»
usual. ?t
' A Houl'e and Lot in Dover.
FOR SALH,
d A LOT OF GROUND, fttuate on theeaft fid«
d t\ of the main street, running through the town
>, of Dover, in Kent county, in the Stat; of Dela
e ware, about thirty or for y yarda below Captain
p Furfcee's Tavern, containing in front on said street
o thirty four feet, and extending in depth cadward
le twelve perchei, together with tbe buildings there
n on creSed, which eonfift of a good brick house,
;s two dories high, well finifiied, with two rooms a.
5 bout feventcen or eighteen feet square each, and a
fe passage eight or ten lert wide on [he Grft floor ;
r _ three rooms with a paff.ige above, and good gar.
rets, the fellars »re excellent, one of which is used
"j as a kitchea; a hack brick building with two rooms
n above aud l.elow about ta:i or twelve feef-by four.
teen ; the upper rooms ot this huiidit g commur'i.
j ca te »' ovc (lairs with the passage of the I oufe ;
A britkfmoke house, and a pump of water
J' in the yard, and a garden adjoining,
The House i> in rtlpcdt as comfortable a.
any in Dover, is in a goo' 1 . situation,
lu ' and now occupied by John Freeman, as a tavern,
with tke ftgn of the Eagl^.
:s ' The terms will be reafonablr, Apply to Dan.
iel Mifflin, It t amden, Hear Di ver, ortothefub.
fcriber, No (to, N'orth Eighth street, H iJa Vl ( >hi»,
l,e CADWALADER EVANS.
he march 4 7
~ To It Let, ~
i' ( r rlT linn given Mcy)
•it A genteel three Itory brick House,
ne 11 st e fr nt, avd feet deep, with back buiHinct
by and fl»blei,at present infb tenure of Major Jack.
:e, son. hrtjaire at 187 South third Urcff,
nd apii] a. $JUST RECEIVED, j Si
rxoM lOIT-IH''> ii!Cl '
Ahl FOR SAI.E, ty thr SUBSCRIC&RS, j |
110 hhds. Coffee
<6 ricrees do. », {
IC-' barrels do. « ( c
ICO bags do. £r
no hoglheadsof Muscovado Sugar •
80 barrel*of do.
40 hog(heud& of Molafles
4 bales of Cotton p« n *
2 hosiheads of Cocoa • r
WILLINGS FRANCIS, j,
Periiftrecr.
march la. :. „ the
FOR SALE, Co
BY" THE subscribers, No. H, Penn-ftrtet, for
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, cotamander.from Bengal, -
Cinlijling as
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Coffees Punjura Cloths pi
Kanahl Guzzeydo. n
Htiml-un>» Charcorna Dorea
BUe Cloth Tarjibs '
Chintz and Calicoae Mulmuls J'
Mamoodys < Checks "
Mahawgonges rauiaHkfs. 1
Ginghims Mulmuldo.
Guzzenai Btndannbes
Gi'riahs Sifterfoy he
Piniafcofs Cfwppa Romals dc
Sfflgatchtt Sooty do. rc
Gillie Romals Perfiansof ririous col. br
M©t.k Pulicats ya
200 tons SUGAR ar
5®, 000 lb PEPFEU. w
Wi I lings & Francis• fa
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that h;
commodious store the ndrth well corner 01 c j
• Market and Fourth-streets. m
Alio —A few Biles of Madrafs Mkfs. ot ele- f 0
eant patterns and best colours. cl
6 February 8. dtf c
- Bargain.
A quantity oi Window Glass
FOR.vALE, of diffcitr.t fizns, at a very '» r g e
discount from the sterling (foft. If thi# 18
nor difpefed of before the of April, it will be
Clipped from this port.
For. terms apply to No. 89> South rhird-1 rtet. N
march »6. i lw .
THE PARTNERS H!l* OF
WELLS ssf MORRIS,
HAVING expired on the nth February last,
all pcrfons having demands againll the fold
Partrerfljip, are requested to fumilh their vgvm
for iett:cr.i< pt ; m i those indebted to the fame, to
Dl ..ke immediate psyrari.t to thefuhftfwer.
GIDEON H. WELLS.
N. B. The buf.ncl's will be cn as hejelo
fore, Vy the fusicriber, at his Store, No. 13J, '' r " i
ket-flrect march ~
NOTICE. I
HT'KKJvE Certificates of Six Per Cent. Deferred -
! Vcbi q{ the United States ol the following £
delcrit tion, v»2 —No. K»£3. WB4. aI,J (
fir 5060 dollars each,, dat-d 2th May, 1797, and [.
flan• in^ on thehoo*, ®f jhe the Urn- (
ted States, in »h« n»m« of Cf.ijamui »_addmgton, ,
of !.snovcj,near ■Nb i <r g ..vcnrev,nK«s'«d,
Esq. have Voft by t)ie Capture ot the_fh, P
c h« from benre to London, m June laft.—'Thi*, {
therefor? notifies those whom it may concern, that
licalioo Will be made at.the 1 reafary of the U- ,
Waddinglon C£r Harwood. «
march « i '
rpHt term of Co-partnerllnp between the fub
i fcrft'-rs. trading under the firm of John Mil- -
ler, ran.arnl Co. expiresthis day, and by mutual
•confer" -vv.-.l nvt be renewed- I he; debts j
cernv of the ftme will ' < fettled by John Miller,
Tun. < 0 whom ail thafe indebted to the p»rtnerlhip, •
are earneflly rcquefted to make payment to, with
out delay.
JOHN MILLER, Jun.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
February 1$ >• - - ' ' ' - •
LANDING,
From on board the Ship Sally, from
Calcutta,"
AKO FO* SAt-f. BY THE SUBSCaIBE",
1600 bags prime Sugar,
§OO do. Ginger
30 bales low priced f kee Goods.
John Miller, Jun.
<r.jrch 3 1 i
"FOR SALE, by
John Miller, jun.
No. 8, Clufnut-ftreet,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
amokcjt which are
Gu'rrahs Mamcodies
Kaftas Sannas
Catenas 1 ar.da Coffacs
Emertics
Blue Cloths Caliches
Pularnroors Romnll Handkerchiefs
AmongftWrn are a gr eat proportion of the ma
nufaSuic- of l'atna.
Britilli Dry Goods,
ALSO,
Forty puncheons of proof Rum.
Fehrnary I
Alex. J. Miller 13 James Daws,
Having entercd.ipto partuerfl'ip under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller b 5 Co.
INFORM tlieirfricncsin t.nvn anJ.ojuntry.that
« have opened a Wholcfale Dry Good Store,
at No. Trant Slrect,Philadelphia ; wher«|
they nr-.v have, and intend keeping a general af
fojtmcnt rf TtHir, Germnm f Irijh, French and Bri_
>;>b Mari.fiilturesfot sale, on advantageous tei j:f
fo.-eafhorafbort creoit.
Fetriaiy 19
LANDING
From on board the Schooner Ranged, from
230 Bags, containing 30,000 wt. Coffee,
For Saie by
SAMUEL HAYS,
♦ ; No- 127 Chcfnut-ftreet-
VVh» hi« remaining on hand 6,700 pieces In
dia NANKEENS, ofa superior quality.
March
Priion Manufaftory.
rOR SAL P.,
At the Priron of the City and County of Philadci
phia,
Cut Nails of all fzes, from 3 dy to lody
Flooring lirads. Springs fsddlc and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped LogTvr oil
fhoimakeis nn-i
Siwed Marble, suitable for currier s taoles,
romb and head aoncs, hearths, chimney pieces,
rlarfonnj, flabs,(a:ia, window heai«, iilis, c .
All which iv.ay he hart on reasonable terms,
nu.!t an i Weaving done at said I'rifon at
. a moileiate jricc.
Orders from a diflancc, (fir»-flic to Daniel Tno
mas. aguctfer the ptit be at'crc'ad to.
December 26. mthdm
IScnuy ikill permanent BHdge. 1 ln\
"'HE fubferibers Commifiiofurs appointed by j
A an of alfembty o( this Commonwealth, '
cnti'lid u An act to authorise the Oovcrnor of
" thi* Commonwealth tp incorporate a company XJ
*• for 'efe&irga permanent bridge «ver the river Eng
" Srhivylhiil, at or near the eity of Philadelphia," ge*
hereby give notice, that Boohs arc provided as the as a
taw direct ; and that we will proceed to receive - t wel
lubfcriptions for the Company Stock, on the ninth ir.gi
day of April next, at the City Hall, in the city of 2
Philadelphia. Tte fubferiptions will be received BR
from ten o'clock in the morning till two o'ciock, Iff
P. M. of that day ; and the books will continue coll
open during thofc hours $f iucceeding days, until the
the number, required by the laid law to enable the wh
Commiflioncrs to certify the fame to the Governor obt
for incorporating tl»e stockholders, be fubferibed I
RICHARD PETERS, A
JOHN PEROT,
GODFREY HAGA,
MATTHEW M'CONNEL, A
WILLIAM SHEAFF. f
Philadelphia, 19tb March, 1798- ay—
Ran away from the fubferiber, s?e
on the 14th inft. two indented Irish Servant Men:
Thomas M'Guire, about 25 years of age and 5 a v
feet 8 inches high, robwfl, stout, and well made, "
Ihort blade hair, remarkabla for a fear on one of
his temples ;he is a forward, deceitful, vicious, 1 ,
and unprincipled fellow, and decoyed from my
fervrce Jeffry Corbet, about the lame age and cc .
height, but of a milder disposition, and moreflen- Vvl
der make, fliort brown hair; their working appa
rclwas blue doth qver jackets, lined w.ith coarse ~
brown linen, check and brown linen fliirta, grey
yarn (lockings, mixed twilled £rcy cloth trowfers, r
and rufiett leather (hoes ; they hav; other cloarhiwg
which altogether gives them the appearance of fea
faring men, but have been brought up to the farm
ing tufinc-fs ;no doultt will have forged passes and
change their names and apparel as convenient, and
have taken the post road to Philapelphia, 1 pur
" chafed them thelaft fall of eapt. R«!lins, in Balti
more. I will give Fifty Dollars for fecurine; them ar
so that I get tjicm, and will pay all reasonable 'y
charges if brought home, or if separated, Thirty g
Dollars for Thomas, and Twenty for Jeffry.
ARTHUR i3RYAN,
Heacfrof Wye, Talbot County—March 7.
march 14. ■ 9
? TO RENT,
A good three story House, ,
TVVO rooms on each floor, with a convenient
t. Kitchen—in Front, near South-ftrect.— l —Enquire
of ihe Printer. march 3—^aw^w
PROPOSAL,
For Publifbing by Subscription,
1, a»
EN I R Y
INTO THE
10 ORlGir OF EPIDEMIC DISEASE",..
H"HE Letters to Dr. Currie, whichl pubjifhec!
JL last autumn, led m« to jn invefl igatinn of
ths origin and phenomena of peftilsntial diiialjas
r " in other countries, as well as in the United St tcs.
In the profrcution of tfie fubjcfl:, new fails and
principles continually opened to aiy view, and si ;
raliy determined me to trace back the history of
such difcafes as far »s the records,,of hiftpry cu
ff wn< i. For this purpose, I examined the pub
s' lie libraries m New-York, Ncw-Havsn, Cam
'. bridge and Boston, witji, a viaw to obtain a'l the
11 ' material fails which can illuilrate the fubjsifl.antl
t have nearly colleacd all the materials for the J
• nropofod work.
The fails'eollefled will enable me to demon
is» Urate tSiat many of. tEe common Mi-is refpeSihg
pefijlentiaWpidsipies, are. unfounded of cxtremf-
J " ly.hiCOtTea.; in copfeq.ufnce of medical
writers cartfrdering an epidemic disease as a detach
ed cr isolated pl.jnomeuon in a particular coun- j
try ; rather than, as connected with other tpide
r*icj or other phenomena ef nature in various
parts of .the %vorl,d ( The, fafts I have collcifted
a l Lead to certain deduilions whiph are surprising to -
mWeUt api vyill probably be now to many
er others. Much ligKt will be thrown on this dark
ipj and, r> rplexing fubjeil, as well as on natural phi- a
tofophy. i
The proposed work will mtike a full-fized oiJia- j
vo volume ; and execute* well on fine paper, can
n not be afforded at lels than two dollars, bound, -
with the usual allowance to book-fellers. As tha
compilation will coll not only great labor.but con- '
fidcrable expince, 110 more copies will be printed
than to fupnly fubferibers. The book will be rta- 1
5m dy for fubferibers early in the coming summer, and 1
the holders of proposals will be good enough to ]
return them to No. 40, Pine-street, by the firllof
May.
Sobschiptions received by the book-fellers in
New-York, Philadelphia, Albany, New-Haven,
Hartford, New London, Providence, B oft on, Bal
timore ai d Charleston.
L_ NOAH WEBSTER, jun.
march jB.
JuJl received, and for Sale at theßookJlore of
WILLIAM YOUNG;
C , No. 5 j South Second-flreet.
A COMPLETE HISTORY OF
CONNECTICUT,
CITIL AND ECCLESIASTICAL,
From the emigration ot its firft planters from En-'
in to 1713.
By BENJAMIN TRUMBULL, d. e;
:fs VOLUME I.
na- with a coireil Map of the Statej and
P rtraits of some of the firft fettlsrs, from origi
nal .paintings.
mairhic. Temw
February, 1798.
5 by GEORGE FORMAN,
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
> A New and Valuable Work, which has been ex
-1 of ant only fix months—entitled
PROOFSof a CONSPIRACY against
all the Religions, and Governments of EU
orc v i\OPE, pp. in the fecrrt meetings of Free
Masons, Illijminati, and Reading Societies. C©l
- as- lecled.from autborftie?,
By JOHN ROBISON, a. M s
I'rofrjTor nf Natural Pbikfofthy, and Secretary to the
Royal Society of Edinburgh.
JSfam tua res agitur paries cum proximus ardet.
$pT T HIS work will he put to prefsas fojon as
rom 400 fabferibers are bhtained, and no money requir
ed until the work is completed.—lt fliall be print
cd with an elegant new type, and on paper of fu-
Fce, pcrior quality, which will compnfe about 400
pa£cs neat ovftavo, handfomcly bound and lettered
tbe price will be one dollar and fifty cents.
Those who procure 12 fubferibers, and become
J accountable, fball have a 13th gratis—and the u
-1 fl " iual allowance to bookfellera.
* m m l'nt above work comes from the pen of J.
. Robifon* of Ecjinborough, a gentleman io high I
j eftimatios in the literary world—the fa<sU therein |
J recorded arc well and thereafonihg
J and argutnen's thence deduced, while they difco
idcl» vcr the found judgment and penetration of the
writer, are. calculated as well ar ta in
draft. A fccne of villainy is developed by the
Its author to appal the ftnutcft heart.—The
danger to be apprehended from secret societies is
clearly pointed cut ; the of human »a
ible*, ture awfully illudrattd, and the hazard of every
ece*, dcviaiiop fsm the straight path of religion and
f c . of virtue, ipconteOibly proved both to the politi
cian and the ehriftian by stubborn and incontro
n at vertaMe f^dls.
Sulfcriy.'ov.s taken in ly G. Format!, A"o. 46,
Tho- ii'iliiat: -frcet, oppojitc iht'Pt>ji~Office, and by the reffec
tive booifidlers in A r itv York and Philadelphia.
ini February JS.
1 Interpreter of Foreign Langnigcs.
JOSEPH EG. M. D*"LA GRANGE,
Walcnt-firevic, S«. l.'Q,
BEING duly comrniftioned ami sworn in .the ?' IN
hove capacity, otf«-rs to tranftate the hicnch,
Engliih, Spanilh, Portuguese and Italian La-v.;ua- ,
ges :he flattenhfmfclf that his former profeflion, „
as advocate, both in France and St. Bjniingb, Ins (
: ' well qualified liim to tranfl.te any Court proceed- (
l ings or other Jud ciiry instruments.
K. B. The FRENCH CIRCULATING LI
[ BRARY continue* open at the above place. Ma
, i?y valuable additions having been m.ide to this
• collection, it conflfis now of about IJOO volum««,
1 the be!l adapted to answer the purpofc of tl.pfe ;
; who V.'ilh both to improve iu the Language, and 1
r obtain ufeful inftruflion and pkafure.
i I march ,10. aawim !
A House and Lot in Burlington.
. Ffili SALE,
I \ LARGE commodious two |Wy brick House,
I f\. and large well improved Gutdea ; with »
I large Clover I .ot,' a (table, a Carriage House, and At
- I Spring House, &c. in the City of Burli-gton,
I S'ew-Jerfey. Ai
I This property is allowed to be the raoft healthy
' I and beautiful of any in Burlington, having a fr::t« Ai
; los 360 feet upon the river, and extenJing 108 feet A:
'j I bad:; boun.dc.-1 on one fi.i:'|ty fcroad-flreet, and on
I the hack by a wide alloy.
I The house is in form of a square, fmmijig 54
J I fcctupon Bioad-ftreet. and 58 upon the river.—
I with a pump of water at the backdoor, besides
' I two fine springs riling eut of the beautiful bank J
- J between the garden and the river.
' 1 Far particulars, apply at No. 5, South Fourth- I
; 1 iireet, to | \
GEO. WALKER. A
1- J Who has alfu For Sale t
Lots in Wafhingtbn City.
march n. § I
r ' yt/ST RECEIVED.
I And for faie by W.Young, corner of Second I
m I and Chefnut-llreet, M. Carey ti;: High-llreet J
IC I T. Rohfon, 41 South Second-flreet and the I
l Y I Bookftilers generally,
(Price 5-& th? of a Dollar.)
BEACON HILL,
I A Local Poem, historic and deforlptive :
By a Lady of Bojlon.
I ANALYSIS OF BOOK 1., I
| Ailufiqn tO'Uic furrpuiulipg Profped—-Invocation I
nl | to the Riv r and Deities—to the Hiftcnc j
rc I Muse—Pillion discarded—Dedication to Wash- J
j ington—The A&ion open*at the Retreat of- the |
I Columbiansfrom Bunker's Hill— Howe I
I —The Memory of his Brother—Death of War- j
I ren—Pcrfonififcation of Fortune an I Fame— J
J Wafliing'on at Mount Vernon—called to the j
j chief Conirjund—Formation of the Columbian 1
I Camp at Cambridge—"Natural, moral, or poli- 1
I tical History of the several States —Their com- I
ed I manding Officers of Boflon—lt6 Suffer- j
of j in£" —Negotiation for the fafe Retreat of the 1
Britilh Ariwy—-Its^Departure-—Appointment of I
es . Cofcgrcfv—Declaration of Independence—Cha- I
itcJ I ra&er of the Columbian Soldies—The Poet's I
si. praphctk ApoHrophe tfcp Frogrefc of Free- |
of j dom throughout the World. I i
;x . I march 30. § I a
H JUST PUBLISHED,
he AND FOR sale AT THIS OFFICE, I j
r.d v - . ( Pruc 1S c f" u )
1 Reflections on Monroe's View
|n _ | OF TIIF. CONDUCT OT THE EXSCUTirE,
n(r [ As publidied is the I
of the UNITED STATES,
cal iJndtr the signature of
h-1 SCIPIO,
j In -whiAihc Commertial Warfare of France it traced I
e " I to tbt French Faflion in tins Country, as its Source, I
I and tbf Motlvrs oj Oppufition,
I tr.arch.3o. • 1
my Wanted, ~
An adiive, cleanly, industrious woman to cook 1
hi" a/id do the bufmefs of the kitchen. Such a one I
will bc.allowedgood wages, and no other necdap- I
a * ply.—Enquire of the Printer.
aa - February 7 §
the Notice is hfereby given,
OR-I 'T'H AT application will be made for the renewal I
ted 1 of a Certificate of a Share in the Bank of the I
'ea- I United States,, (landing in the name of the Subfcri- I
md ber, No. 5004, and dated July 11,1797 —the lame I
Ito having been loft.
*of JOHN GRAHAM.
j march 5 §6w I
-en, " ; TO LET;
3al- And may be entered on immediately,
A good dry Store,
I Threeftories high, and in an excellent stand for I
- I buftasf). Apply to
eo J j Thomas & Jcfhua Filher,
j march t. f No 5. I
Frefli l eas.
"ju/l Imported, in the Jhip Delaware, I
1 Captain Cooper, from Canton,
E n -T dnd For Sale, It
SAMUEL HOWELL,
jAt his Counting Houfe,-No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet, j
on n , AND 9Y
r -". . ' SAM. E. HOWELL,
I At his Cotnptingjloufc, Crooked billet wharf, j
" Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon,Young I
>. I Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS. ;
I Claina Ware, afTorted ; black and coloured Lute- I
1 cx- I brings and Sattiiis, Nanlceens, Caflia, large garde 1 .
and common Fans, fat tin and luteftnrigtJmbrellas, j
• whale-bone sticks.
j Tbcv Lave also Far Sale, I
kU" EJ) wide Pfrfiaps, E and anna
Free p rcn ch Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxeb.
j march 8. §
New-York, January 24> 179^
,0 I PkOPOSALS
By Arondt Van Hook,
I Proprietor of the Heading ttoom ;
in as For Publiihing by Subscription,
i uir - An Appeal to Impartial Posterity,
if'fu- By Madame Roland 5
400 Wife of tlifrMinifler of the Interior in France,
tered . CONDITIONS.
These scarce atd very valuible Historical Me
:om« I moirs, (which ran through two London edi
he u- j tionsm a few months,) will he comprised in i
I vols, oiSlavo, ot 400 pages each,
of J. 1 Thfcy rtill beprinted on fine paper and a n«w
hi«h I type, and delivered to Sulifcribers, neatly bound
ercin I a ' n J lettered, »t i dollar and jo cints per vol
'P' h g ume—one third of the Subscription money tobe
lUc°- p a j ( ] on delivery of the fir ft volume—the re.
• t .' lc I mainder when the work isconipleat.
0 To Printers, Bookfe'lers, and others, who
y *^ c I acquire Subscriptions, the usual allowance will
7 be made.
~s 15 Subscriptions are taken at the Ueading
°n~ Room, No. 149, Water fireet-rhe Printing-
L A Office, 149, Pearl-ftrwt—and at the- different
, 0 i; t ;. Hookfloipes in New-York-- Also, by Wiliiam
, ntro . Young, corner rf Second ariJ-Chefnut fireet, snd
the Editor of the of the United Statts,
„ 4 Philadelphia.
rrftu. As soon as a fufHcirnt number of Sulifcribers
are obtained, the work will be put to prcft, ind
with tho li'.raoft dispatch.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH 1, I 79 8 -
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
INpurfuanre ofthe'Ait of C.r.gfefs pkffed on the filth day of July one thousand seven hundredand
in- etr 'even, e-titled " Ah AA laving dutie. on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper , and the
ASI I f oil the fifteenth day of December, one thousand fsven hundred and ninety-feveß, entitled
" An rtw. co noftpone for a limited time the comineßcer.ient of the duties imposed by the Act enti
tled " All Av-'l hying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from and alter the
lirll day of July enfuin®, the several Stamped Duties htreafter enumerated, will be levied and collec
ted throughout ti.c United Statss.
For every (kin or piece of Velluw or Parchment, or (heet or piece o'f Paper, upon which lhall he
written or printed any or either of the inllrumenti or writingslollowing—to wit :
Dls Cts. 4I«
Anv Certificate of Naturali2ation, - - - - J
iny Licence to praiflice.or Certificate of the admiflion,cnrolmeht or regillryof
any Councilor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Prodor, in aay Court of the
United States, ■ - - - * 10
Provided, that a Certificate in any one of the Courts of the United States
for one of thefaid Officer, fiiall so far as relates to the payment of the
duty aforel'iid, be a fufiicient s>ami!lwn in all the Courts of the United
States, for each and every of tliefaid' ffices.
Any Grant m Letters Patent, wider the fcal or juthorityof the United States
(except for lands granted lor military ferviccs) 4
Any exemplification or certified copy ot any fuck grant ttr letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military services} ... %
Any Charter-Party, Bottomry, or Refpondchtia Bond, - t I
Any Receipt or dil .hargc for or on accountof any Legacy left by any Will or e
tlier tetljmcjitary nilli-i>.i.ent, or for any fliare or part ot a perlor.al ellate di
vided by force ot any flatute of dillrfbutUn-, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceafec, the amount whereof (hall be
above the vilue of Fifty Dollars, and lhall not exceed Up value of One Hun
dred Dollars, - - - * 2 5
When the.amount thereof thai! exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
(hall not exceed five hundred dollars, - - - 5°
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional futn of l
Any Policy'oflnfurance or inttrnment in nature'thereof, on any fliip, veffe'l or
goods insured from one diltridt to another in the United States, 25
From the United States to any foreign" port ( or place, when the sum for which
Insurance is made shall not exceed five hundred dollars, - ij
When the sum insured ftiall exceed five hundred dollars, - 1
Ary Exemplification, of what nature soever, that thai! pass the seal of any
Court, other than lucli as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furnifh for the use of the United States or some particul3i"ftite, - 50
Any Hond, bill single or peaal^foreign or iifand bill of exchange, promiffuy
noteor other n©te,other than any recognizance, bill,bond, or other obliga
tion or contraift, made to or with the United States or any fhte, or for their
, uferefpeflively, - - - - " "
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred .lobars, t 2$
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 50
And if above one thousand do.llars, - - - 75
Frtvided, that if any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within fi.xty «ay»,
such bonds or notes thall he fnbje& to only two fifth parts or thcouty
aforelaii!—viz. - - "
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dolli-rs, - - 4
If above one hundred dollars 4tid not exceeding five hundred dyllai s, 10
if aheve five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thouland dollars, J 20
If above ope thoufaljd dollars, - - - - 30
Anv Notes issued hv,the banks now elUblifl/cd, of that may hereafter be eßab
ijfced within the' United Stat.es, other than the wMs of ftich of ihe laid 1 Bants
as fliall agree to an annual composition, oi' ofte per centiim on the annual 3 -
vidends made by such Banks, to their StocWholders refpe4live!y, jeeording to
the following scale. ... - - _
On all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar,
On all notes above fifty dollars:, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, s o
Cn all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, , V " . . "
On alj. notes above five hundred dolhrs, - - 1
Any Pioteft of other NotSrlalaft, - - - r ~<, n> 25
Any Letter of Attorney; eiccpt for an invalid pension, Or to obtim or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services f .4
performed in the late war, - - 11. ,
Any Certificate oj- Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for less than
five bundled - " " " " .
For five hundred dojlars and not exceeding two thouland dollars,
for more than two thouland dollars, - - - 3
Any ftote or bill of ladirig for goods or mercharidize to fie exported,
ft from one difirifil to another diffriil of the United States, not being in the
fame State, - - - IO
If from the United States to any foreign port or place, - - 25
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or eff«4ls, made in any
I c ,afe required bylaw,, (except in cases of goods and chattels fliltrained lor
'» rent or taxes, snd goods taken in virtue of any procefs l>y any oillcer,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share in any IniVrance Company, of a stare in the Bank b\
the United States', or of any Stit'e or other Bank,
If above twenty dollars and not exciedin'g one hundred dollars, - id
. If above one hundred dollars, - • ' » a -5
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
,! 11.
The dutiesaforetaid will be collated and received by the Supervisors, Infpciaors aud other Officers
of tnfpe>slion in the several Ditlrias, Surveye and Divifeons of the United Wtates, asd by luch other
- perrons as (hall from te tim«»-be fpccially appointed ilnd empifeyed by t!/; Supervisors ot Dillrids for
that purpose. , ■ ,
II 1 f hi.
,« The Sttpervifaricf the feverkl Diftrifls will, prior to t! e firft day of July enfulyg, and at £<on
i- may be pradicable, markorftamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or p ircc> of Vellum jlParc! -
ie mcnt or taper, with tny of the rates of duties before enumerated,, on payment ps the fa id duties ;Or
(lamped vellum, parchment and paper n.av at the option of the Citizens of the Utiited States, be ob
tained at the rates prelcriliei} by law, by application to any Supervilcr, lnfp«>3fer, Officer of liifpeitibfi,
or other potion appointed for the djftriLution of Stamps, by the Supervifors«f Diftridls
the day and year obovemeniitn^d.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. . Secretary of the Treasury.
FOR GALE,
By WHARTON isf LEWIS,
No. 115 South Front Street.
A quantity of Tanner's Oil,
4th proof Jamaic f -vßum, ") entitled to
and 2d proof Brandy, j drawback.
Madeira Wioe,
Juniper Berries, &c. &c.
Feb. 9. fodt L
N O T I C E.
A LL persons who have 4ny deminds against
IX the estate sf WiLuifc ttFETwboB, of
Liverpool, late of Philade'lpliia, merchant, de
cease 1, are reque'ficd to exhibit their accounts,
properly altered j and those wlio ire indtbte'd
to tlVe fame, are desired to Aakc ifnme'tfiate
piyfr.ent, to
TSo. 25, So. ThircMlreef. )
Tanuary 4.
Just Published,
And to be had at the Book-Oorcs of MeflYs. Dob
son, Campbell, Younq and Okmrod,
in Phiradfelphiii
OBSERVATIONS
On the Catiles ind Cure of tlamitting > r Bilious
. Fevers.
To tvhicb it annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and praflicc of
different authors : andean APPfTNfiHX, exhib
iting intcrefling facts and reflciftioin r'eiitive to
the Sjmehui JCleroidti, or Yellow Fever, which
has occafianed so much didr'eft and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the fclpoit
towns of the United States of America.
BY WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felow of the Philadelphia College of Phyficiins,
and Member of the American Philoiophicat So
citty. Feb. j—*3mj
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, tl)e 20th
infl. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Doll art, at Wm, BLACKBfIRN's l.otury
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-street
Tickets in ihe Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at I'e*
Dollart, where check books are kept lor regifter
irg and examining in these, the City of W'aftiing
ton, No. ll.and Patt«rfon l-ottcrits, and informa
tion where tickets maybe had ill tnoftjof the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The bnfinefsof a Bnoxf.it, inhuyingand
fellirg all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
j difcoiHtyrj Bills and Notes of Hand, tale of
' Lan.ds, Soufet, &c. &c. will be dulv attended to,
j by WM. BLACKBURN,
j November 15., J
Salisbury Estate.
r T" T HE Subfcribcr, proposing to contra# hit baft*
1 ness, offers this Estate for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces*
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of (tones ; alfoagood Forge, all
in peVfeft repair, as are all the Water Works connect
ed with these various branches. The Air Furft*etit
were lately built for the purpose of casting Cannon
for this State.—There arc about two tiiouland acre«
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
Very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Pasture. The Cannon lately manufactured there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which i»
(uperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one of sixty-nine guns
lately made, afthough some of ihe 34 were bored
into 32 pounders, have fatltd on proving. The fuu
ation it very eligible, particularly for this.brat.cli of
inanufafture, and a place of aims in the ilate
of C&hne&icut/and miles froin fevfcial Tartd*
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can rcfult Uom 3 plenty of water ifluin<*
from a large riatura) pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted Into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can beaceorr»modau
ed with all the {lock and uterifils, and have
onor before the si» ii of June next, and preparation
may be fria'ffe ?n the meant* me for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
in good or-ier, with some coal, Ore, Sic. See. For
terms, apply io Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, ETq. one of the RcprcfedtaUvea
in Cofrgrcfs for thiiSfate ; MV, David Watej man, on
the prerrwfes, or to the proprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEURON.
Dee. 1. 3a wtf
NOTICE.
A MamtfnSery of ytl/otv and'itdft ware,
Such as fsevcr was in tlui Country before, has been
been lately ere&ed at Tivoli, Red Hook, Ltndrng,
Eaft Bank of Hudson's River, slate of Newg
York, where any arricle of various forts and Grapes
may be executed, as well atearthern Roves upon a
new conftiu&ion, that save* three fourths of the fuel
commonly used in call iron stoves or open cbymnies;
they are bcfidesvery wholefomc and ornamental, by
applying to
J. WOtrctfET,
Wanted a fkillful hand to attend to the baking'atid
glazing part of the (aid ware. Genr»ous appoint*
raent.s will be given. Apply as above, or to
DAVID BRQOKS, Esq.
No. 71 South sth Super.
Feb. it). eod4W
Wanted, to Hire,
AW Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a genrrov*
rent will-tie given; to be taken for a year, or on
mere for a longer term, hiquireof th< I*ljirfr
Oil. 17. e»tf