Vx J&t&fan D Philadelphia foaily A^ertt^rx
V" fy John FgWfcb, ISh 119 Chefaut Street. '
Number 1758. J
JUST ARRIVED,
In the fliip Ph«aix,capt. Grice, from Amsterdam,
a boxes Siamois I hhd.Hogs Bristles, ift
3 do. .Haarlem 'Strip«s quality
3 do. Checks, No. % 3 -do. do. do.
9 do. Scaling VVai j d<f. Glue, ai.d
Cream Oheefe in prime nchefts firft quality Red
order for exportation Craft
Jult Received, via Baltimore, &g.
3° bales brown TirUenhurgs and hempen Linens
JO Kales German Ozwabrigs
30 bales brown Rolls and Heffins
*5 bales Polith <io. fuitiblt tar exjffee aAd cotton
bap*
»0 bale# empty Bigs
« bale bleached Helfaro
t ( ,I.i'ac\igr turkey Yarn
*j> 4 ruecej, Viadrsft Handkerchiefc
1 meA lV.pej, J, 15, &.c.
-» jacfiagA «*tot> l.indteys
1 holes Window Qlrfe, 7. by 9, 8 by 10, 9 by
10-Vy n, j 4 j,y ,6, if, by 18, &c.
zo chelis pLin and flowered half pijit, pint and
<ji art'TiiWibieK
20 chetis Looking GlafFcs, aflcrted
• 4 large elegant do.
3® travelling Liquor cases
i cheftand 8 barrels Snulf Boxes
400 fides upper and foal Le.ithyr
A car 00 of prime Mahogany
Several Anchors, from 4 to t» cWt.
io pipes old Port
A few quarter cafe&Sherry ( , KIV . CC ,
. 60 cases White > WINES
400 boxes Ciaret J
80 boxes Capers
3Jo f.-.raH boxes ftuffia Soup
30 tierces Rice
. so caflcs Roll Brimstone
40 kegs yet!o\v itoae Ochre
'5 k>'g» Pearl parley
a hoglhsads Madder
1 chert afiorted Quills
6 bales Writing Paper
10 cheils Slates stk! Penc:^
20 trunk* Mees* and Witness' Shoes
60 Silver Watrhes
1 hhd Coffee Mills
•a u<.-Gibing and blockTng Twine
*Tfccfis ctuWg t'oys
A few Demijohn*
A quail' ity of Rant pickling Pets
4 loses of Knghik Chariot and Chariot Harnaft,
■with plated ornaments in complete setts for 2, 4,
or 6 horfes,alfo Whips, Spurs, Sec.
The above Goods are generally entitled to draw
back, are suitable for the EaH-lndia market, and
Vill be fold at reasonable prices and at the usual
credit, by
PRATT & KINTZING,
No. 95, North Watcr-ftreet.
April 16. tMtt
~ OX BEEF.
100 Barrels ) of Beef of best quality, put
go half Barrels J up with care for long voyages.
To© Bjtclj of Counefticut Pork,
jo Barrels of Connecticut Tongues.
WINES.
35 Pipes of Madeira Wine.
30 Pipes of Port.
30 half Caiks of Sherry.
30 Calks of Lilbon.
300 Cases of French Claret, of exeellent
quality.
.800 Bane's of Scraped FLOUR,
100 Barrels of Condemned, and
*0 Boxes of best Durham Mustard.
FOR SALE BY
______ Skyrin
The Co-partnership of the Subfcrihers,
trading under the firm or
Joseph Davidson Ssf Co.
IS this day dissolved by mutuaj consent, all those !
having claims against fit id firm, are desired to j
rebder their atcounts, and those indebted to mdke
payment to Joseph Davidfon, who is duly autho- C
fifed to fettle the affairs of the concern.
JOSEPH J. MILLER,
JOSEPH DAVIDSON. c
N. B. The Stores at the corner af'Market and
Fourth Streets arc (low to be let.—Enquire of Jo- a
feph Davidlon.
April «6 w&sim |
A Country Seat to Let. <
NEAR the Frankford road, about four and a
half miles from Philadelphia—the fituitioH f
ren arkably pleasant and healthy. Immediate '
pofleffion may be had Apply at No. 144 r
South Second Strete.
may 4- 3awff
FOR SALE.
SEVERAL very elegant Situatieni for Sum- i,
mer Retreats, three and a half miles from
the Court House, and on the Frankford Road ;
the lot's will be made to suit the purcliafers.—
Thede situations are conlideredin point of health
beaaty and elegance, equal to any near the city, f
and the road known to be iare and good at all
l'eafons of the year. TJje title indifputa.ble—A
plan of the grounds is in the handi of the sub
scriber, who will make known the terms on ap- r
plication to him at his office No. 124 South
Fourth Street.
ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER.
>n.iv 3- itavntf
FRESH TEAS. la
oi
MR. CHALK, th
INFORMS his Friends and the Public, that he cc
has opened a ar
TEA WAREHOUSE *
JVt his Circulating Library, No. 7; North Third y f
street» where he will be hkppy to execute their PI
Orders for fine-flavoured in
IMPERIAL, HYSON, "> in
YOUNG HYciON, f r
HYSON-SKIN, ' r t h
SOUCHONG & BOHEA J f r ,
On moderate terms. c l,
Coflfee, Chocolate and Loaf Sugrr. ta ;
april XI- f u |
Real Eltate for bale.
AT the Merchant's Coffee House on Monday
evening the twenfy-firft inllant, will be
fold pursuant to an order form the Orphan's
Court. A three story Brick House, twenty-four
feet front on Great Dock-flreet and forty-two
feet deep ; together with the Lot twenty four
feet by eighty-two feet deep, row in the tenure
of Edward Pole, being partaf theeilate late of
Rev. Gilbert T.Snowd-n deceased. Tketerms
will be made known at the time cf Sals, by
Isaac Snowden, Admnidrator. ]
Edward Pole, Auctioneer. fha
may 3. diodeyts
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, MAT u, 1795.
HEALTH OFFICE.
l "' IJi May. 1798.
in Extract of an a<s to alter »u i unend the Health
Law,, ot this Commonwealth, puffed 4th April
1798-
. F Secft. 8- A be it fvrthe by the *u-
* XV thanty alo-euid, att very house
tacper >-ithin the city « Pbilaac phia, thfc town
ftips pftV.s NorthernLiterties and Moyaaxmfiiig,
;C. atvl diftrtil of South war}, within a miia c{ the li
ens m £ SO' t?i« eity, taking n bo»d4rs airivi:.)gby fca
or by land, -r >many foreign port or plac /, and ha
ving any hsMdw in htso- her femily, wi )0 ihall be
toll taken tick of any (fiieaic '-vkftiioewr, V>->vr. -n she
firft dsy of M:-v and the tiil day of in
any year, within twenty days next «f'/ r fueh boar
der fliall co-ac to lodge in his or her house, {hall
within 14 hours next after the knowledge of ftach
ficknef:. make rerort ar the' Health O/.fice of the.
name of such £ck pojioa, tJie time of Ws or her ar
rival at the house anrf of his or her being taken lick',
by and of the name and place of abode ♦f such houfe
kcrper; whereupon the Hhyfician of the Heakh
nd (J^:ce <ball forthwith visit the patient, and rsport
to the office his opinion the nature of such dis
ease, that meaiures may be taken to prevent the
spreading of the infeSion ; and if any housekeeper
t lhall negledt to givi information in the manner and
within the time aforcfaid, and lhall be thereof Con
viifled, in any court of cr.miaal jurisdiAion within
this Commonwealth, upon iudi&ment by vcrdiA
or eonfeffion, he or {he 19411 forfeit and pay a fine
to the use of the said hofpita!, not less than twenty
dollars, nor more thau one hundred dollars, to be
imposed at the discretion of the court, according to
thecircumliances of greater or less aggravation at
teiiiing each particular cafe.
By order of the Board of Haalth,
WM. ALLEN, Health Officer,
13-, v*j rn of-thefort ol Philadelphia.
Treasury Department,
March 10, 1798.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
' I HA I propolals will be received at the Office of
X thef.Secretary ot the J'reafury uiitjl the ex|>t
rAtiou of the *;th a y of July next for
4 the supply of all rations which may be requited
for the use of tiie U States, from the firft day of
O&oher to the day "f iSfpifrH-y
1 799* day*i«r! Jxivrc, at the places and- within
the diftri<ft hereafter txentioned, viz. At Qfwego
h 9 at Kiagara ;at Frefqie lfle ;at Mlchilimackinac ;
4, at Fort Franklin ; atPittlburgh ; at Le Beuf; at
Cincinnati ; at Greeiviile ; at Picque Town and
v- Laramie s Store ;at Fort Wayne ;at Fort Defi
d ance ; at any place bebw Fort Defiance on the Mi
al ami River to Lake "Ere ;at Fort Kirox and Oua
tanon on the River Vabafli ; at Maffac;,at any
place or places on the aft fide of the River Miffif
lippi above the mouth the River Ohio, and up
-911 the Illinois River • 3 any place or places on the
eafi: fide of the River below the mouth
of the River Ohio to tfce fouthdrn boundary of the
lt State of Kentucky, andwithin the said Stat« ; at
Knoxvilic, Tellioo Bloci Houfc, and at all other
Posts in the State of Tein<?ffec; at aRy place or
places on theeail fide of the River Miluilippi, be
low the southern boundary of the State of ftnnef
fee, to the southern boundary of the UnitfcdState;.
If fuppJies shall be required for any posts or
places not mentioned in this notice,all fuchfupplies
lhall be furniflied at prict i i|propa>j , tioa«Ki to thole to
the posts before recited, as may be agreed on be
l rween the United States and the contraflor.
The rations to be supplied to consist of th" fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour
One pound of beef or twelve ounces of pork
or bacon
Half a jill of rum, brandy pr whif-"\
ky, one quart of Salt, two quarts f , .
tno fijfoatf. ( h ,!" drßd
' one pound of
The ratipnsare t6 hefurnilhed in such quantities,
as th?t there lhall at all times during the said term,
. be fufficient for thi conlupiption of the troops at
; Michilimackinac, Detfoit, Niagara, and Ofwego, ,
for tile term of fir montfis in* advance, and at each j
' of the other posts. for the term of at least three ,
months i« advance, in good and wholesome pi'ovi- .
fions, if the fame (hall be required. Itistsbeun
derffood, that the contractor is to be at the ex
petice and risk of iCfuing theftippliesto the troops
at each pest, and tbat all losses falfained hy the de
predations of an enemy, or by means of the
trcops of the United States, lhall be paid fbr at
the price of the articles captuied or destroyed, 011
the depofiuons of two or more persons of credita
ble charafters, and the certificate of a commission
ed officer, ascertaining the circuraftanees of the
loss and the amount of the articles for whieh com- -
penfation (hall be claimed. f
The priviledgc is reserved to the United States r
of requiring that none of the supplies which may c
bt furnifhtd under the proposed contrail, shall be '
issued, UHtir ( the supplies which have or may be "
furntfhed under the conttail now in fr.rce have
be#n consumed. » "
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
' ti
Secretary of the Treasury. g
march 17. I'. 2a wt I; Jy c ,
Germanrovvn and Reading Turn- u
pike Road Company. c
r<
THE Subscribers CouHtiiflioners appointed by
an AA of Aflembly of this Commonwealth E
entitled, "An adl to enable the Governor of this C
Comtnonwealch to incorporate a Company for
making an Artificial Koad from the city of Ph - -
ladelphia, through Germantown, by the rout
o'c Chefnut Hill, to the twelve mile I'one on
the Reading Koad, andtlienceto Reading in the
county of Berks," hereby give notice, that books
are provided as the law directs, and that we V
will proceed to receive fubfcHptions for the com- -
pany's (toek on the, iSth, 19th, and days J
of May next, at tlu City Hall, in the eity of
Philadtlphii.at the Tavern of William Buchois,
in Germantown, at the Tavern of Jacob Berr,
in Reading in the county of Berks, and at the H
Tavern of George Phleger, in Potts-Town in ,
the county of M. ntgomery, cn the fame days,
from ten o'clock in the morning, until two o'
clock, P. M. on each day, when and where cer
tain of the Comm ffioners will attend to receive
fubferiptions accordingly. c<
april 14th, 179%. ' w -
BENJAMIN- CHEW, jun. th
CASPAR W. HAINES, ,b
a:-. SAMUEL Bi ; T I ON,
GEORGE LOG AN, Hi
JOHN FROMBERGER, Su
ISAAC FRANKS,
JOS HEISTER,
J. BOWER,
DANIEL ROSE, I
SAMUEL LAVERTV,
GEOROg DOUGLASS, jun.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
Tv. B. rift sen Dollars to be paiti yn each
share at the time effubfcribmjr.
Pj r.i 17—todtjcM
lVlilitary Academy.
Iji '"3 ""HE Piiil c arc most refpedlfully itrforard,
,rii I- that a Milifary flcademy is opeuedjn the
. Northern Lil<r; : es in the house formerly belong
lu- i Ig to John Mailers, tfij. between the Gerraan
fe. I'< wu and Fraukfort road., North Sceoai
rn- fi'feet continued
.g, V Br 'JOHN BARBER,
K- L;lte of the 6oth BritiCi regiment of Foot tnd
!ca ariilant Engineer to the Army aiSiinn in the
W eft-Indies.
~ Where gentlemen will be taught the manual
j® V coTtpltteiy i :<juuiiutd With
all the duties of officers, jiori-comK.iflkmtd'bf
■jjJ fK tl ' s an ' l jwivate folders in cfcnp, garrtjen Khd
:ch
hc detachments, rollers &c- Ac alf.i the
, r . irt V* draw ing phm, legions and umpf rical
:k', cv V** I .*' t ' lc elements of {ectic#, gu»nety and
fe- fortiil'aticp.—A fubfeription lift is left at the
h- ir the City-Tavern, ■where The terms and I
>rt the outlines of the proposed regulations'-..ay be
if- fee- Tiie.fituatioO is extremely wefi adapted
he to the Undertaking antj eight acres of ground are
ier let apa»c for the purpole.
□d N, IS, Gi-ntlcmcn from the Country boarded
n- required.
iin may jo. drwiawim
—v —_—— '
Military Colours.
" ''At a GULL ACER'S
lt ° Portrait and Ornamental Pointing Rodms,
N°* 5Pi *Soutih Fourth, next to Qhefaut (Irtet,
oppojite the Friends' M'e*ring.
PAINTING on Hlks for Military acd other or*
narCw-rtal J urpofes'(in a manner peculiar to
himfclt ) dorabk, not to be injured by the weather,
which f»r nee of defigs, truth and beauty of
colouring, nontnefs and nwfierly executrcn, has
not been by George H-iincr and Co.
- FA AGS and DRUMS
of Fwaif t :<j u J:h attpoffible dispatch, otithe most
reafcuAlt tern s.,
>r Oman ient;j 1 Painting, Signs, "Fjrc Bufk
«t»; Cornfces, a c.Ac. c*vcui«Hi. ill Aile (not that
of fupsrb of \ to G. R.)
°* 1>»1 lUre manner, peculiar to an ar
m tilt of hi profeffiou.
'5 Mr. GtrtLAQ si, from a number of year's expe
: 5 riencc in Europe and this country, flitters himfelf
" that profefliona 1 talents, punduality, and reason-
able demands, Ivill meet the entire approbatien of
1- those gentleman who will pleale to cjll at his Paint
-- ing Rooms. 56w may 5.
r! M O T I C E.
>- P. S. Gentlemen in town and
£ country, wifhinj for a supply of Colours and
Drums, painted in a malterly m anner, will no
e doubt feel themselves obliged for the tind caution
given by George Rutter and Co. not .0 trust felf- ;
:r flattering advert! fements, but examiic the work j
r executed by both parties One vi;w will satis- 1
'' f y them where the superiority lies,—>'ave thefpoil- <
ing of good filka by George Ruttcr'i pencil—and <
'• difcovcr the re<iuifites for the contra Sing talents 1
of Frailey, at Germantofr) may 10. [
0 Military Colo irsj f
PAINTED ON SILXr-ir '
u George Rutter Co.
Portrait and Ornamental Painters, ,
TN a nile which will endure thejiardfcips of the
A weather without itrjuty, and wlic'lt for neatneis
and oxaiflitude of colouring cannct be surpassed in
this city. , c
d FLAGS and c
wish dispatch, ®n the most moderate *
terms. -
Portraits, (Ornamental Paintings, Signs, j:
t fire-buckets, &c. accomplifljed in tliat fupecb (tile '
of modern elegance, which, Mr. Rurttr fledges 11
1 himfelf from ao years experience fu this city will
meet the entire approbation of hii friends and the
* public. jj
| In the Military line, , Ii
s A variety of specimen's may ,be fecn at their b
_ Pain org Room, Norris's Court, luck of the Njw 0
, Library.
t . 1 ' <i6w
: NOTICE. c P
HAVING observed an advertilemcrt of C. tl
Gullager, in ttrnis derogatoCy of our pro- (1;
f"ffional abilities, we have to request the public p ,
1 not to be imposed upon hy foreign artiftp ; but to Ji.
decide upon the mei its of each by a comparison ot
. the work executed by both, as it is a mode almost P
, umverfally adopted by tfeeai to invalidate the ta- cc
let3ts of eltablilhed artists, with of deceiv- W
ing the public, and engrossing that bufinef. which b<
their profefiionat knowledge is no wife entitles 0 <
them to. Well knowing that public opinion mult
govern, we flatter ourselves that the work ciecut- '
ed by us will convince them of our great superio
rity over Mr. Gullager in every branch of por- cc
trait and ornamental painting, and fliew the nccef- ne
Cty of judging for themfelve*. £ jj
N. B. fn future no attention will be paid to th- n
felf-flatterir.g adVertisements of Mr G. 7~
Any person wilhing a supply of FLAGS and
DRUMS Will plcafe apply jto Gio. Rutter and. G
Co. Norru* Court, or Hsmry Fhailev, Gtrmaii
town. §6w may 8. ba
Robert Field, 7~ XI
MINIATUkE PAINTER,
Has removed to No. 106, Walnut ltrect, be- <*e
tween Fourth aod Fifth streets. tw
djw_ p] ;
N EW Fe A VV A REHOUSE.
No. 39, South Front Street, y e>
01-POSIT >; foST-OrriCE. r
I 'HE Subscriber rtfp«A>ully atguaimsherfricfids
X. and the public, that she hasopened a Storefor
the feleof all kinds of teas, imported in the late " ei
arrivals at flofton and Phihdelphia, (as under) and
which flie is determined to fell or reasonable terms. Ru
It will be hcrconltantendeavour to give fatisfa&ion ma
to those who please to favor her with their cultom. r I P
Country ilertswill find it their advantage to deai l
wi h her, as Ihe can at a moisent's notice aflbrt
them any quantity wanted, andwill allow a reason- me
able credit on approved notes. em
Imperial, Hylou, Young Hyson, Scucbong, cri]
Hyson Skin, and Bo'nca—.»lfo, Coffee and Loaf as '
Sugar for sale. t
Sarab Eaton. ret;
a P ril '» s&th.6w J a . A
Imported Phoenix, Th
Richard Griee, master, from /Imflerdam, ar
A qnantity of Lintfeed Oil, and enu
i wo cases low priced Linen Checks the
ftms.tLi SY ars
George Pennoei. it i
a F'l>9- ccrf que
p. MESSAGE
er<i, of the Prdkbnt of tKe United States,
tDC To both House of Congrck,
un- Majr+th, 179 H.
f Continue 4 frvtHjtj}?rdaY i G«zr(te,)
The second brothch of this objedfton
*i»d seems more to be relie„ 00 2nd comes for
th® ward in a more dt .r've shape , is—That
the U. States Jwre"ab«Ki3n«d the limit giv
en to contraband by the law of .stations, by
" f . th«ir treaties with illother nation*, and
IjjjJ efenth<tfe ofEagfcnd with a greater ran
rre- of fhi maritime powers,
the The limnof contraband is fupjjoiMJ
ical hajre bcert extended by inferring in :!ic-fc»- J
ind calogue naval flares and timber for fhi»-
the building.
>.nd Tp eiiimate riglulrf a charge so warmly
>; j made, h becomes toalcertaln
are whether those articles are, independent of
treaty, by>the law of nations contraband of '
war: on tbjs iingle point to reli tbe
verity of thie'accufation.
1 It is regretted that those who have iver-'
red the have not been pleased to
furnilh authorities in support of the Opinion
tVy advance., Such authorities would have
bean confidercd with candor, and any-con
w > vrfljpn they hava produced
! > have been fra»4y acknowledged. Ifut off-.
or such authorities are furniflied and it is
w thatinone euift.
ier, America solicitous (jo .Iconfine as tjiuclji as
of possible byiommon consent the Uft of cun
iras traband; but determined, however she
might oppose its enlargement, not to at
tempt its diminution by force, was under
10ft the neceffiiy of examining the fubjedl, and
of afcertainiftg .the line of partition between
■k- the rights* of nenV;d« and of L/elligerentj
".at powers.
take the most approved writers on the law
pe- °f nations. I he/e are believed to class
"elf timber for {hip-bttilding and naval stores
>n- for the equipment of vefTels, among arti
°f cles admitted to be contrab;nd of war.
at " battel (B. 7. Seft. 112.) deines contra- 1
band goods to be " commodties particu
larly used in war : such are arns, military 1
and naval stores, timber, horfts, and even 1
:d provisions in certain junftures, where there i
nd are hopes of reducing the eitmy by fa- I
mine." The treaty between France and <
j 1 " Denmark, concluded in 1742 places tar, <
k rosin, fails, hemp, cordage, malls and tim- <
;j-_ bfcr for ship-building on the catalogue of 1
il_ contraband : and Valin in his commentary I
d on the marine ordinances of France (vol. z. <
ts page 264.) fays that "of right these arti- '
I- cles are now contraband, and have been so '
from the commencement of the prefect cen- 1
tury." In conformity with these opinions 1
has been that Of America ; and if the law >
of nations was understood by the most apt
proved jurists, (he have not erred. I
IC But the modern public law of nations, and 1
n m . odern treaties are laid to have eilablifhed a v
j different rule. If the modern public law 5
, of nations has changed thfjKiflcipte, such v
C Vchange is yet unknown to the United States v
—itis much to bo wished that more full and t.
( . fatisfa&ory information had been given in ' t
fupport of an opinion, adi fFt-rence on which n
, t is ajledged to have produced consequences ti
;I; so extremely calamitous. " ]
e it is not averred that the armed neutra- e
lity has constituted this modern public law. w
It is supposed that this cannot be averred, S
r because France will never admit the right e<
of a confederacy, whatever may be its pow- j ii
er, to impose the law on those who are not j ft
parties to it. It is supposed also, that this Ipi
cannot be averred for another reason. The ri
members of the armed Neutrality had g
. themlelves agreed upon the articles which, fc
- should be deemed contraband. Russia, the at
• power originating that celebrated, though tu
; fliort lived Compact, published in the ft
principles on which /lie would maintain the m
. commerce of her fubjefts: one of these tr
■ was that the articles of contraband should ca
; 'egolated by the 10th and nth articles ch
' of her treaty of commerce with Great Bri- w
tain. - th
Afterwards, Denmark entered into a ve
convention with Russia for maintaining ge- wi
nerally the principles agreed upon, but on on
the fubjeft of contraband in particular, du
Denmark adopted as ths rule by which to
be governed, her treaty of commerce with, an
Great Britain concluded the 10th of July th
1670, in the third article of which contra- N;
band goods are described to be " ahy pro- to
'visions ofivar, as soldiers, arms, machinesi
cannon, (hipj, or other things of necefary th
aft in near " But by a convention conclu- Fr
ded at London on the 4th of July 1780, be- Tl
twaen Great Britain and Dehmark, to ex- ter
plain the treaty of commerce of 1670 be- fti|
tween the two powers, " Timber, foxJhip- ed
building, tar, rosin, copper in Jheets, fails, at
hemp and cordage, an.t generally rjjhatever no
serves dircXly for the equipment of a vefel, un- by
wrought iron and fir planks excepted," are wi
declared to be contraband. Ut
Denmark having in her Convention with to
Russia adopted her treaty with England, wh
made in 1670, as declaratory of those arti- bo
cles which ftie would consider as contra- the
band, and having by her explanatory agree- do]
ment with England-fabftitijted a particular cot
enumeration of Articles for a general def- 1
cription of them, no: as an amendment, but tio
as an explanation of the treaty of 1670 has anc
taken a different rule,, in the very .compadt tali
referred to as eftabliihing a modern public it
law of nations, from that taken bv Ruflia. rig
The rule ofDcnmark clafies among contra- mil
band predfely the lame articles which are of
enumerated as such in the treaty between Frs
the United States and Britain, and which tru
are enly found in that enumeration, bet.iufe Sta
i. is bt'lieved that the law of nations has un- tha
fo pk : J them. ' Sweden and foti
Holland too, in acceding to the armed nev
tes tra 'ity, adopt their own treaties as the rule,.
' by which they will respectively beguidec'-
There was then eVcn among thr parties to
this agreement no fixed law~of Contraband.
Had the Potentates of Europe defigncd to
establish permanently and gencr-iliy the
ion j>rinciples of the armtd neutrality, the
tor- Which originated that Convention, would
hat not have teruiinated-withoot some general
iv- agreement concerning it: The efforts of
bv Sweden to obtain a Congress for examining
ind and terminating tie different ebneerrfs bottl
fit of the powers at ir.d of the lyiutrsi
States coiid nothftve prot'ei eniiielv .\bor
tive. ,
:a- J No argument then can. tea draw i; from the.
i»- arraSd neikfaiily in fu'pport of the
thai- the modern public la'w of nations, re
lly lating to Crtntraiband" has b'eefi abandoned
iin by the United States, No moßern public
of fyjving been formed, the rule remains
_gT *uifchaViged ; mid at the prefect moment as
rkt wefr as when t£e treaty with France was
formed., is befieved to ordain a$ Contraband
3-' the articles enumerated asfuch in the treaty
to with Britain. -
on But it is alfcged that in this treatv the
ve United States hare abandtroed the limit!
ir. given to Contraband by their treaties with
dd nil other nations "and even by those of Eng-
U.J. land with a greater part cf the maritimfc
>e- powers.
It is triieihat the United States desirous,
as of. liberating commerce, have invariably
n- every opportunity which presented
he itfelf to diminish or remove the fhacJdef*
it- imposed on that of Neutrals. In purfdance
<r of this polity, they have on no occasion he
id fitatcd to reduce tfre lift of contraband, ..s
en between themselves and any nation ctmfent
m ingjo fttch rtfindlion.
treaties ttivc'UeTew■» nat'iorrtas wrlltr.g as
ly themselves to change the old rule: and con
■w fequently a stipulation to that effeft, being
>fs desired by both parties, has been made with
es out difficulty. Lach contrasting party is
;i- deemed to have an equivalent for the Ceflioa
r. made, in the similar Cession it receives from
a- the party with whom it contrasts. Neither
u- requires of the other as an additional confi
ry deration that it ihall propagate by rtiefwotd
:n the principles which form the basis of their
re private agreements and force unwilling na
i- tions to adopt them ; Nor that it should de
id cline to regulate by treaty its interests with
r, any other nation which should refufe to ac
i- cede to them; as little could either suppose
of that its particular contract contained any
■y thing obligatory on others, or was capable
z. of enlarging or diminilhing their rights,
i- The treaties of the United States then
so with other nations can only establish the
i- limits of contraband, as between the con
is trafting parties, and must leave that fubjeA
w with nations not parties to the contrast to
5- the law which would have governed had
such particular stipulation never been made,
d According to the existing state of things
a when the negociations between the United
v States, and Great-Britajn were opened, na
h val ft ores and timber for (hip-building,
s were as between America and Britain, con
d traband of war : they would have retained
n this charafter had the treaty never been
h made : they would haveretained it had the
s treaty contained no provision on the fubjeft
The United States were truly deiirous of
- excluding them from the lift, but Britain
. was unwilling to do so. Had the Unite i
, States posse/Ted the means of coercion, their
t established policy, founded on the basis of
- j justice, and their own peculiar fuuation,
t j fo.k id a resort to these means for any other
i purpose thati the defence of their own
: rights, or a compliauce with their own en
t gagements. It was not a cafe in which
i force would have been deemed juftiable ;
: and the objeft, being unattainable bf mu
i tual consent, was unavoidably relinquished
: f6r the moment. Yet it was proper to enu
• merate the articles which were before con
: traband, and which continued to be so, be
cause that enumeration notified to the mer
chants of the United States the hazard
which their commodies wonld encounter on
the seas, and because also it prevents thofs
vexatious altercations which might other
wise have been produced by the efforts of
one party to swell, and of the other to re
duce the lift.
Jf on the refufal of Britain to substitute
any other rule concerning contraband, in
the of that established by the Law of
Nations, France finds herfelf in a fuuation
to be injured by an observance of her en
gagements with the United States, it is not
thi. treaty with Britain, but that with
France which has produced this situation.
This was forefeen when that treaty was en
tered into, and did not prevent it. The
stipulation concerning contraband was form
ed when France was at peace and America
at War; although that state of things did
not long continue, yet its continuance was
by no means deemed im/iollible. Not
withstanding this, the Government of the
United States has manifefted a willingncfs
to change this stipulation as well as that
which refpefts enemies property in neutral
bottoms, so faon as France complained of*
them: of this the'letter*from Mr. Ran-'
dolp to Mr. Adet already quoted afford*
conclusive testimony.
ft appears then on examining this objec
tion to the treaty between the United States
and Britain, that it has not added to the ca
talogue of contraband a single article; that
it has ceded no pnvibge, has granted r'o
.right, and that it has not changed inthernoft
minutecircorriftance the pre-exiftingfu^ a:ion
of the Uuited States in relation either to
France or to Britain. Notwithstanding theft
truths, the Government of the United
States has haftenedto.affure its former friend
that, if the Simulations between them be
found eppreffive in praftice, k is ready tl
[Volume XIII.
.offer op these stipulations a willing facriice e«i
at the lhripe of friend(hip._ •
In vain will you search in this procedure
for " a known and evident facrifice on the t - e
part of the United States of theircconne- t j
tions with this Republic, and of the most j,]
essential and least contefttfd prerogatives of pJ
neutrality." In vain will you search for th
evidence of their " having given to Eng- "
land, to the detriment of their firft allies,
the molt striking mark of an unbounded
condescension, by abandoning the limits
given to contraband by the law of na' iqns,
by their treaties with all other nations, and fe
even by those of England, with the greater w
of the maritime powers." tr
The United States feel these reproaches as m
conscious.innocence feels the imputation of
'1
6' g Secondly. It is also alledged, that " the
United States have confejited to extend the
denomination ofcontraband even to> provi
sions. Instead of pointing out particularly, r<
ats all treaties do, the cases of the effective 5,
blockade of-a place, as alone forming an ex- u
ceptioa 10 the freedom of this they a
have tacitly acknowledged the preteafions e
railed by England to weate blockades in our
colonies, and even in France, by the force
of a bare ploclamation." t
The objedions to this article (hall be con- t
fide red according to its letter, and accord- t
ing to its operations. b
The obje&iooable words are, " and c
whereas the difficulty of agVeening on the f
precise cases in which alone provisions and 1
other articles not generally contraband may J
be regarded as such, rendets it expedient to f
provide against the inconveniences and mis- c
understandings which might thence arile.
It is further agreed that whenever any fueh e
article, so becoming contraband according c
to the exiftiag laws of nations, (hall for that I
reason be seized, the fame (hall not he con- <
fifcated ; but the owners thereof (hall be 1
speedily and completely indemnified; and J
th£ captors, or, in their default, the Go
vernment under whose authority they aft, j
(hall pay to the matters or owners of such ,
veflels the full value of all such articles, with ,
a reasonable mercantile profit thereon, to- 1
gether with the freight and also the de- 1
murrage incident to such detention.'
Xhg julfljjffi—~-«wuained jnthisjafeare-
First, Thatprovlttonsare not generally j
contraband, and that t
Secondly, They are sometimes contra- |
band. 1 ,
An effort wai made.to eftablilh the precise ,
tjfes iu whirh ail9ne they (hould he fubjed to
seizure; but America would only consent to 1
Consider them as contraband in th« cafe of an ]
*fieilive blockade, Cege, or investment of a .
jjiace ; while on the part of England this ftrift (
interpretation of the rule was not admitted:— ;
but it wa» contended that provisions became con- (
trabind when there were reasonable hopes of r
reducing the euemv by famine. In this oppofi- }
tion of sentiment to what have the United States
eonfented ? " To extend the denomination of c
contraband eten to provisions," "to acknow- (
ledge tacitly the pretesfions raised by England t
to creste blotkades in your colonies, and even in ,
France, by the force of a bare proclamation t
" In a word, to have commetce only with En- ]
gland?" Recor.fider the words themfelvei and c
it will require 110 comment to prove howiina- t
plicable to them are these afTertionS. Tliedauie ;
complained of, having ttated the Jdmiffion of 2
the difficulty already mentioned, proceeds to (
fay : "It is further agreed that whenever any ,
such articles, so becoming cofitraband according t
to the laws of nations, (hall for that reason be j
seized, the fame (hall not be coiifilcatfid, but the f
owners thereof (hall be speedily and completely c
indemnified."
It is too clear tp admit of confeftition that ,
this clause does not declare provisions so be con- a
traband, or admit of their seizure in any other c
cafe than *hea, " according to the existing law a
of nations, they (hould become contrabaaJ
•Ri such cafe the rifiht to seize them is not given ;
by this article, bnt it is admitted by France and c
by all the world to exist independent of treaty, f
In facli cafe they would have been seized had r
this ftipiilation never been entered into; and f
would Have been confifcated also. The onlyaa- t
teration, which is by the letter of the clause (
produced in the law of nations, is to exempt c
from confifcation goods which nndcr that iaw (
would have been fubjeiSt to it. *' ,
But it has been fnfpe<!W to have an objeil and
an operation in practice different from its letter. .
It has been fufpe&ed to cover a design to admit 1
fubllaßtially ceftain principles with refpeft to '
blockades which in theory are denied
Incapable of duplicity, America, with the i
pride of conscious integrity, repels this infinua- 1
tion, and courts an investigation of the fails on
which, it is founded.
The government of the United States and that
of Britain, having conftrucd the law of nations
differently in this re!pe<S, each would have afl
ed upon its own opinion of that law : the pri
vateer* of England would have seized as contra
band any goods deemed fueh in their courts of
admiralty ; and the government of the.Urtited
States would hav; reclaimed such goods, and
would have supported the demand in such a man
ner as its own judgment diilated. This pro
cedure is not changed. The right to make such
reclamations has not been relinquiftied, nor has
the legality of the seizure in any other cafe than
that of an attempt to enter a place actually in
verted, been m any degree admitted.
It is true, that the British government renew
ed the order concerning provisions about the time
of the ratification of this treaty; but it is not
less true, that the government of the United
State= niamfefled a farm resolution to submit to
no filch conflruflion, and remonstrated Jo feri
oufly againfl i' as to produce a revocation of the
order. Nor is this all: claims for proiifions
seized in cases of a mere proclamation-blockade
Save beenaiflually made, and have been actual
ly dec : ded in favor of the claimants. TheCrit
ifh government has Scqniefced under fuih deci
sions the funis awarded. These sums
VreTt not limited to a reasonable profit on the
price of the commodity seized, butwere regu
hted by its price at the port of destination, and
eonfequently the atfual as Well as avowed prin
ciple of such aerifions was, that the goods seiz
ed had not become contraband " according to
the existing law of rations." t
The intention of the govefrtment then, and
the prailice under the article, are in direfl op
pofitio* to these injurious suspicions, the indul
gence of which hn« fuch pernicious ef
fefls. It is even believed that the decision on
this (übje£l will be one step towards the efablifh
ment of that principle for which America has
never ccafed to contend. It if also believed, and
has ever been believed that the articlcohje&ed to
would have a necelTary tendency to increase, and
did in fa<Sl iuereal'e the quantity of provisions
imported from America into Frauie and her co
lonies. The American commerce, beingentire
ty in the hinds of individuals, is eonfequently
eendufledbythem according to Aeir #wn riewt pr<
of i>artit,-uUr they will unqueftiona- | d e |
bly eodea-or to supply the highest mirlut, u»- i j ea
lei's reflrained from doiug foby other «onfid«ra |
tions which render it uuadvifable to att.mpt such
• supply. lo ,their, qajculatipn, the nfk »t £•.-(.
ducinc the market is too important an item to be
palled over or forgotten. Every diminution ot rh
this rilk adds to the number ot tliQfe who will ci]
attempt the supply ; and consequently a know
ledge that the voyage, (hould it even fai > 1 c
seizure of the vefTcl, would yet be proSuble,., th
nwift incrtifc the number of tkofe who would
i .fc'kiUk then, thai this article admits the no
seizure of provisions in »o,fituation where they , to
were not b«fore feizable ; and encourages their w <
transportation to France and her colonics, by di- t j,
minilhirfc the riflt of such :r»nl>ortatiori. a j,
it is also complained pfi that this treaty has
not, «< as all treaties do, pointed put particular-
W the cafe, of the effeflive blockade of i place, >«
ai alone farming « ex«ptt»» to the freedom ot in
provisions..', _ *°
ArticjeitA-a treaty cap oVily be mffrted by con- te
sent. The Uujacd therefore can sever b(
be refponfiWe fpr not having Hiferted an article
to which the other contraa.ng party would uct .
assent. They may refufeto make any change in the
;
.so powers; and they, have refufcd to make n
, any inch change. But it is not in their power f e
t» insert,' as by cemmoii copfent, an article, jr
though merely declaratory of a prirciple which j
' they cctn lid ere das certainly exiftmp, and which &
• they mean tJfupport if such common copfent
be unatu;liable. All that can be done iu such a c
1 cafe, is to leave the principle unimpaired, re- u
j serving entirely the right to aflert Ims has ;gi
I been done; the •principle was left* ummpa.red, j 0
, arid has been fcicefuCccfsfully affected. I p
The United States are at all tiroes truly
3 tous to diminilh as much as possible the lift of ,
" contraband. It is their interest, in common
• with all other nations whose policy is peace, to o
1 enlarge, so far asthcy can be enlarged, the rights v
I of neutrals. This interest is a sure guarantee it
t for thtir using thole- means which they think p
. calculated to effedl the objea, and which a Q
- regard to their fituafion will perfntt. Rut they i
j rnutl be allowed to purfu— the obje& in such a
manner as may comport with that situation.
While they surrender no aflual right, in pre- n
fervug which there is a oirtmot) interest; tfhile 1
they violate no pre exi(ting engagement, and 0
h these they have net iirrendered or violated, they v
- mufl judge exclufi»«ly for themfclves how far g
they wilt or ought to go in thetr efforts to ac
quire new rights, or eiiablifc new principles. B
, _Whe« rhey furrer.der this privilege, they ceale "]
to be independent,' and they will no longei* de- f
' serve tofcefiee. They witi havefurreiUlcred in"- t
to o:her hands the most f*cred t>f deposits—-the c
" right of felf-government; and mftead of the £
approbation tbey will merit ihe contempt of the
5 world.
' Those part! of the treaty between the United J
3 States and Brtain, which have been fetched by c
France as injurious to her, have now been ex- e
1 amined. Th: undersigned are too well convinc- - c
• ed that they nno degree juftify the enmity they j
" are alledged D have produced, notto rely on a j
" candid reconfderatiou of them as a sure mein of
removing the imprcfTions they are supposed to
" have made. '
s tSeforethisfiibjefl is entirelyclofed, one other I
' of a commercial treaty with England seems so j
'■ be reprobated at furniihing just canfe of offence (
to France ; and Mr. Adet has permitted fTimfclf
' to fay, "It was a little matter only to alfow the
" English to avail thertifelves of the advantages of
' our treaty • it was necessary to assure those to 1
- them Uy the aid of a Contrast which might serve
e at once as a reply to the claims «f France, and ]
as perempt' ry motives for refufalt ; the true j
' caufeof which it-was requrfite incessantly to dif
' guise to'hfr und*t specious pretexts. Such was '
• the ohjcil of Mr. Jay"< million to London ; 1
e such was the objeiS of a negociation enveloped 1
e from its origin in the (haiiow of myfteir, and i
f covered with the veil of cliffimii!atiort."% ,
Paliiag AVer this extraordinary language, the (
' undtrlifried,'Rririg oely of producing -
" accammddation by the exhibition ps truth, will
cpnQder the opinion which is obliquely hinted, '
' and the fadi' which is direillly averred.
The praiftice of forming commercial treaties i
1 is so universal among other nations, having any '
commercial intercosrfe with each other, that it ,
• seems unnecefiary (o discuss their utility. The ]
right to form those treaties has been so univer
' sally asserted and admitted, that it seems to be '
" the infepsrable attribute of sovereignty, to be
c queflioncd only by those who question the right
' of i nation to covern itfelf, and to be ceded 1
' only by those who are prepared to cede their in- i
dependence.
But the prosperity of the United States (
" is, in a peculiar degree, promoted by ex
-0 ternal commerce. A people almost exclu
sively agricultural have not within them
e selves a market for the surplus produce of
their labor, or a fufficient number and va
n riety of articles ps exchange to supply the
wants of the cultivation t they cannot have
IS an internal, which tvill compensate for the
.. loss of an external commerce : they mufl
i- feafch abroad for manufactures, fmr many
l- other articles which contribute to the com
'f fort aiid. ccuvetiietic{ of life, and they mufl
fearch abroad also for a market so* that
ri _ large portion of. the produftions of their
foil, which cannot be confnmed at home,
The policy of a nation thus circumstanced,
as must ever be to encourage external com
in merce, and to open to itfelf every possible
n " market for the disposition of its fuperflui
ties, and tlie supply of its wants. The
j, e commercial and manu'facluring charafter and
ot capacities of England must turn into that
qd channel a considerable portion of the com
to merce of any nation under the circumftan-'
ri ces of the United States. It is a market
too important and too.valuable to be volun
tarily closed ; in confequencc a confidera
al_ be portion of their commerce has taken
•it. that direction, and a continual solicitude
ci- has been manifefted to regu'ate and feeure
ms it by contrast. Toabolilh this eommerce,
h e or to refufe to give it permanence and secu
rity by fair and equal ftipulattons would be
m a facrifice which no nation ought to require,
\ x _ ard which no nation ought to make. In
to forming her treaty of amity and commerce
with the' United States, France claimed no
"d futh prerogative. Thai treaty declares the
intention .of the parties to be, " to fix in
ej T an equitable and permanent manner the rules
pn which ought to be followed relative to the
jfo. correspondence and commerce, which the
has two parties deftre to eftablilh between their
ind refpeftive countries, (kites and fubjeds
U" and that " they have judged that the fai.d
Jlu! end could not he bctt'el* obtained than by
° : |* taking for the basis of their agreement the
i re _ moil ptrfeft equality and reciprocity ; and
itly by carefully avoiding all tho e burthenfome
.preferences, which are usually fourct* <»f
debate, enibarraffment and
leaving also each party at liberty yo, n ' jk . e
! refpefling commerce and navigation, f
interior regulations which it a.all tynd ftal
most convenient to itCeW. and by funuing
the advantage*of commerce Cakly upon re- t c
ciprocal Utility, and the just rides of ree e
inttrcourfe, reserving withal to each part) 1
the liberty of admitting at its pleasure <1- tie
" ther nations to a participation of the lan k 1
; advantages." The treaty itfelf c°^ a " ls "
no stipulation in any degree contradinoi y o
to th'ofe declarations of the preamble, or cai
which could suggest a suspicion that und tr m;
' these declarations was concealed a wi( 11 '■<> mi
abridge the of the, United otat C 9 a
with refpeiS to treaties, or to control thtpr gc
' interests in regard to commerce. Tn for!»- jn;
F ing a commercial treaty with Britain the te- ly
fore, in which no peculiar privilege is gr • ' 1
' ted, the government of the United States j r«
" believed itfelf to be tr»nfa«aio& » ,h,
' exchifively its own, which could give u*i- |ie
. brage to none, and which, no other nation co
r on earth would consider itfelf as having a le
: right to interfere in. There existed can
r! fequenily no motive for concealing trom as
' France, or any other power, that the. ne- er
1 : gociation of Mr. Jay might or might not th
J terminate in a commercial treaty. Ihe de- cc
j claration therefoie was not made ; nor is it a\
- usual for nations about to enter into ilegoci
s ations, to proclaim to others the farifus t
> I obiefts to which those negociitiois may
I possibly be direfled. Such is not, oor has tf
fj it ever been the pra&ice of France. 10 ,rt
„ ! suppose a necefiity or a duty °V l h e
o ! one government thus to proclaim all its a
:s | views, or to eonfult an other with relpeft to ct
e its arrangement of its own affairs, is to im- S
ply a dependence to which no government
ought willingly to fubreit. So far as the tl
iilt€reftsof France might be involved in the o
_ ncgociation, the inftruftions given to the e'
•- negociator were promptly cotnmuricated. P
e The minister of this republic was informed g
d officially that Mr. Jay was inftuufhil not to a
7 weaken the engagements of the United ti
States to France. Further information was d
j neither to have been required or espe&ed : o
ie indeed that which was given I urnifhed rea- f
:- son to suppose that one of tlie otjefts of v
f- the liegociation with Great Britain was a >
e commercial treaty. Why than such unne- 1-
c ceffary and unmerited farcafcns against a •-
e cautious arid unoffending ally ? Those ob- 0
>( j jests which (he pursued were such as an in- t
,y dependent nation might legitimately pursue, *
1- and such as America never had dissembles!,
> and never deemed it neceffari: to dissemble
Y her vvifh to obtain. Why Should an effort
a s be made to impfefs France w;ith an opinion,
5 0 that Mr. Jay was not authoi ifed to nego
ciate a conmercial treaty wit'li Britain,when
tr the fixed opinion of America had ever been
m that Franc: could not be arid ought not to a
t0 be diffatisfed with the formation of such a t
: .p treaty ? Why should the minister of France \
have been informed officially that Mr. Jay t
0 f was especially inftrufled not to weaken the t
to engagements of the United States to s
ve France, if it was intended to convince that J
ld minister that bis powers did not extend to '
fubjefls in any degree connefted with those ]
engagements ? To what purpose should the <
. government of the United States have prac- 1
•j ticed a deception deemed by itfelf totally ]
id unnecessary, and which its utmost efforts i
could not long continue ? Tt requires an e- ;
le qual degree of folly and vide to pra&icp an 1
!j g | useless fraud vfich must inevitably and imrae- i
diately be dftefted, and the deteflion of 1
which must eipofe its author to general in
es famy, as well as the enmity of those on '
iy whom the frapd had been pradtifed. These
it confiderationa ought to have produced some
le hesitation concerning the fait. The tefti-
mony in support of it ought to have been 1
3e very positive ind very unexceptionable be
lit fore it received implicit faith. It should
:d have been very clear that there was no mis- 1
n- take, no misunderstanding concerning the 1
information communicated, before the 1
es charge was made in such terms as the rain
x" ifter of France has been pleased to employ ;
u " but the testimony is believed to be fatisfac
n" tory, that the government of 'the United
0 States has not endeavored to impress in
a " France any opinion on this fubjeft which
ie the fa£l of the ease (lid not warrant. The
declaration of Mr. Randolph, made July
kf Bth, 1795, is full on this point. It is in
these words : " I never could with truth
■y have informed the French minister, that the
"V mission, as set forth in the President's mes
sage to the senate, contemplated only an
'V adjustment of our complaints ; if by this
elr phrase it be intended to exclude commer-
Je ' cial arrangements. I could have no reason
for faying so, since the French republic
"J" could have had nothing to do with.our com
b. hiercial arrangements, if they did not de
ul" rogate from her rights : it could have an-
fwered no purpose when so short a time
would develope the contrary—l never did
:at inform the French minister as is above ftat
'm~ ,ed.
an-'
[ cct " The only official conversation which I
un _ recoiled with Mr. Fauchet npon this fnbjeft j
>ra . was when I communicated to him, with the
tcn President's permission, that Mr. Jay was in-
J( j e j ftrufted not to weaken our engagements to
ure I France, neither then nor at any other time
_ ce !in official, or unofficial conversation, did I
, cu | ! ever fay to him that nothing of a commercial
be ] nature was contemplated, or that nothing
; re but the controversies under the old treaty
j n and the spoliations were contemplated,
•rce " r " Fauchet sometime ago said to me
no that he understood from what I said that Mr.
the was not authorized to treat ofcommer-
K ; n i cial matters. I told him that he mifunder
-1 . ) stood me, no letter has ever palled upon
the 1 this fubjefi."
the I l^en Randolph did give Mr. Fau
heir ' c^ct T ' lc information contended for, itis plain
s j that he never was authorized to do so ; but
fa'id Ine confirmations already detailed render it
, infinitely more probable that Mr. Fa chet
t |, e has mifiinderftood Mr. Rando'ph, than that
an( j Mr. Randolph has mifinformed Mr. Fau
cheU
The underfilled We they tr . .
a correft view of the leading and U
mealures adopted by tht govtrnmfnt of the
United States : they have endeavoured
state with plainness and with candor the mo
tives which have occafiofted the adoption o
thofc metres, find the aeration tf e£ are
believed to have. They have (hewn that if
America is to be reproached with
ties, irreconcilable mth her neutral fixa
tion, it is not by France that those reproach
es ought to made. They have been ."' d^' d
to take this review ty a hope which they
cannot relinquish wiihout regret, that it
may contribute to efface irapreffinns winch
mifreprefentati. v «»y have mad*, and to
take from and , co ° d '' a ,
government they repreent that hUc qwtpur-
ino- which unfriendl .< pmcils have fo-profuL-
Iy°bcftciwed upon theft They are «*ia«W
dill to cherish an hggfa. that by, exposing
frankly *nd fincenft, the fent.m.ents yhich
U.w U;*W«*o guided their nation, they may
'icfture diTpofitious on the pari of r ranee
' compatible with the continuance of those
fentimeiits. ' ■ .
have been made that in the
application"ip particular cafe,s of those gen
eral principles, which the neutral ftjjwn of
the United States rendered indilpenfible, in
conveniences and vexations which were un- j™
avoidable have beer, sometimes hftained. to _
These complaints have been separately and 01
fully discussed. '' f
The undersigned persuade themselves,
that the explanations which have been given ™
refpeftlng them, if notentirely fatisfaftory, J 1
; have yet been such as to prov.e the good u
! faith and upright intentions which never 7
ceased to direfit the conduS of .the United *
States. . . ' r
If notwithstanding this good faith and
the purity of these intentions, the difficulty
of their situation has, in any cafe produced :
even an involuntary departure from those J
principles by .which |fey profeffed to be ar
[ guided, they are ready to cyjnfider that cafe
, and to repair any fault which may inadver- ( P«
I tently have been committed. \Vith these
1 difpofitious on tljeir part, with this confci- c<
: oufnefs of having never eeaf?d Jo merit
! friendfhip and eftcem 9 f the French Ration,
f with a conviftion that a temperate and tho.
i rough'view of the paftepnijot fail tp remove
. prejudices not warranted by 'fans,the United
! States have relied confidently on the juftide
of France for a and repara
. tion of those serious ard heavy injuries,
which have been ?iccumilated on them.
> (To be cont'pued.)
\ By this day's Mail.
, ——- ' \
NEW-YORK, May iq. -1
1 FATAL RENCOUNTRE.
1 In consequence of a publication which
5 appeared in the Argus *f Saturday last, con-
* taining some remarks on James Jones, Esq.
s which were deemed ofadifrefpe&ful nature, n
f this gentleman demanded of Mr. Greenleaf, n
= the publilher of that paper, the name of the e
3 author, who gave up as such Mr. Brock- j
t hoi ft Livingfton. A fracas took place on t
a Tuesday evening, on the battery, between {
e Mr. Jones, and Mr. Livingfton ; in confe
e quence thereof, those gentlemen we are in
- formed, met yesterday afternoon at Hoboec
y ken en the Jer ey fide of tbr Hndfon ; and
s it is vrith extreme regret we have to add that
- a wound received by Mr. J. in the groin,
n which opened a main artery, pr.oved in a
- few minutesfatal »• th«t rcfpeiXable and wor
f thy charadter.
n The follawing article is copied from the
e Cork Herald os-March 21 ft, received by
e the Chesapeake, Capt. Waddell,
i- Ext rail of a letter from Dublin, to a gen
n tleman in this city, dated March 19, 1795.
:- a A Vessel which failed yesterday from
d Liverpool, and arrived here at three o'fjlo^h,
- this day, brought the London Papers of
e last Friday, which are .later than tbofe by
c the Packet. They'ftate from authority that
1- the entire Fleet, which was failing for Tou
; lon and Brest, confiding of Seven Frigates
> and upwards of sixty Sail of Transports,
d with Provisions and Stdjes had been All ta- '
n ken or funk, by Sir John B. Warren. As
h this may not have reached you hy the legu
ie lar cou'rfeof the post on Wednesday, I vvrite
y this to convey the earliest infortnation."
n Verbal accounts state, that on the 17th
h March (St. Patricks day) a general Maffa
'e ere was to have taken place in Ireland ; but
f- a timely discovery, and apprehension of part
m of the chiefs, prevented the horrid deed,
is
r- Capt. Davis, arrived* atßofton fromLon
>n don, informs, that M?rch 25, off Ireland,
I'e he spoke a Britilh fifhing vessel, just out of
®- port, the Captain of which said, that news
e- had been received of the capture of three
n " French frigates andforty transports ontheir
ne way from Dunkirk to r j3reft, by a Britifk
I'd fqnadron-
Jt " United States, I ~
Penh/jlvania Dijlfifl. J
1 I TN pursuance of a writ to me direiled from the
A Honorable Richard Peters, Esq. Judge of the
Dillrift Court of the United States, in Ind for
the Pennsylvania DiflriiSt, will be exposed to pub
in" lie sale at the Merchants' Coffee-Heufe in the City
to of Philadelphia on Wednesday the 16th May in
me ftant, at n o'clock at noon,
I The Brigantine tailed the
rial CHARLOT T E,
ng * With aril and lingular her tackle
ity apparel and furniture, as they now are—The said
Brigantine having been condemned to pay the ma
me riners wafres &c.
Ar WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marjhal.
' Mirlhsll'i OSes, 7 "
May 10, 1798. j "
er " N. B. The inventory may be fe«n at my office.
)on . WANTED
A Good Cook—alio a Man
Servant who underl!ands HoUse worV. None
l a " 1 but of good charailer need apply—Enquire at
J " this office. fit may 4 -
TO RENT, 1
hat A good three story House,
au TWO rooms on each floor, with a convenient
Kitchen—"in Front, near South-ftrect.- Enquire
f the Printer. *pril »o—jawjw
lAWS OF theUMTED states:
_
M Kstut/iority.
Fifth Congress of the United States:
AT THE SECOND SESSION,
Begun and held at jhe City of Philadelphia,
in tUe'State of Pennfylvanta, on Mon
day, the thirteenth oT Novernbtr,
one thousand seven hundred
n , and ninety seven.
. AN ACT
For the Relief of Obadtab Br nun.
q y T>E it enaded by the Senate and
13 House of Representatives of the
United States of America, in Congress assem
bled, That the Secretary for the Depart
ment of War, be, and he is hereby direfted
to place upon the lift of inv-pAid penfionert
of the Upitsd States, at the rate and pro
portion of one fourth of a pension, the name
of Obadiah Erown, late a private Suldier,
who has been returned as an invalid by the
Jifdge of the Diftrift -of New-York, pur
suant to an aft of Congress; palled the twen
ty-eighth day of Fekruary s , one thousand
seven hundred and ninety-three, intituled
" an aft to regulate, claims to invalid pen
sioners."
Sec. 2. And Id it further enacted, That
'the said pension (hall be estimated at the
fame rate, receivable on the fame condition,
and payable in the fame manner, in all res-
I pedis, as direfted in like cases, by an aft,
j pafled at the present session, intituled, " an
aft directing the Secretary at War to place
j certain persons on the ptnlion lift."
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
TH: JEFFERSON,
Vice President of the United Statu,
and Prefdent of the Senate.
Approved, May 4., 1798.
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States.
AN ACT
Directing the payment if a detachment of mi»
litia, for services performed in the year one
thoufandfeven and ninety four, under Major
James Ore.
BE it enaSed by the Senate and House of
Representatives, of the United Statei of
America, in Congress ajfembled, That the pro
per accounting officers bq, andthey are here
by authorized to fettle the accounts of the
militia who served on an expedition com
manded by major James Ore against the low
er Cherokee Itidians, in tfte year one thou.
' sand seven hundred and niuety-four ; and
that the fame be paid out of any monies in
the Treasury, not |otherwife appropriated.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
TH ; JEFFERSON,
' Vice Prefdent of the United Slates,
and President if the Senate«
' Approved, May 8, 1798. . '■<
1 ' JOHN ADAMS,
President of the ihatid
r AN ACT
To continue in forte, a part of an n3 refpeUmg
the compenfition to the officers and mariners
of'the Revenue Cutters.
• TJ E't enaded hy the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of
1 America in Congress ajfembled, That the firft
1 r, fefiion of an aft pitted the lixth day of May,
f one thousand seven hundred and ninety-fix,
y intituled, " an aft making further provision
c relative 10 the revenue cutters," be, and the
1- fame is hereby continued in force to the end
■s of-the next feffiou of Congress.
4 JONATHAN DAYTON,
1- ! Speaker of the House of Reprcf ntatives.
s TH ; JEFFERSON,
1 Vice President of the United States,
e and' Prefid/nt of tfje Senate.
Approved, May 8, 1798.
h JOHN ADAMS,
i- President of the United States.
Depofitcd among the Rolls in the Owce
rt of the Secretary ot State.
Timothy Pickering,
■Secretary of State.
New Publication.
if A Senftble, Seasonable and Spirited
n ADDRESS,
?e Written hy a Citizen of Philadelphia—entitled,
ir " What is our Situation ?
(k AND
What our Profpe&s ?"
A few Pages for American*.
For Sale by WILLIAM YOUNG,
he Corner ot (jhefmit and Second ftrects,
he And at the Office of the Editor,
or (Prici three ftxtecnthi of Mlar)
ib- from the slkAt.
*V tf When hour by hour we are yielding
point by point relinquishing one right to
day and preparing to facrifice another to
morrow, these generous friends tread rapid
ly on our steps, and every new conceflion
but opens a new demand. Rapacity grows
" a more insolent by uninterrupted success, and
timid.fubmifiion invites depredation-W lure
a/, will this end ? What offering w.H gorge me
appetite of plunder, or app&fe the rage
of unrefiftdd hostility ! NaT civilized nation
has ever before been guilty of such outrage
and ins lence, no free natian has ever e
' s fore endured them." '
For Sale,
i TUeeargoofthebrigA m ericanfrom Lagui.a,
CONSISTING OF
Ga'accas Cocoa.
Henry Fhilifs,
ri"e Ho. ill, south Foil.lb Strew.
r aprii 33. <Siisctte.
/: —».
PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EVENING, Mir n.
Yesterday, the House afkeprefejHarives
of the United States again went into a com
mittee of the whole on the authori
zing the Prefideßt of the United States to
Taife a provisional army, together with the |
amendments pippofed to it by a feleft com
mittee ; when the consideration of Mr. Gal» -
latin's motion for striking out thefirft feftion
being resumed, a debate took place which
continued till half past four o'clock. The
question was taken and negatived 47 to 44.
The committee then rose, and had leave to
fit again.
eOMMVNJCATIONS.
Bache has denounced bur govern rn-nt, and
threatened ns with wir and vengeance from the
" great nation" zs the French now ftite thehsilvis,
hstaufe the aifpatches from oijr envoys have been
j"jbliftied,' at ihe fame he takes unwearied paint to
Slew that the French governnjent ii in no degree
implicated in those diTpaiches ! What, the great
nation gcj to war with United State» for exposing
the vil'aiuies of private fwindlars !
TV!-cn the Jacobin lenew nothing of the
ioltru&iorfs to rur envoys to Frsrce. their organ,
the Aurora, wai inceffantl) ahiifing the executive
for not giving such at were competent to the ob
jeA. The deti liable calumniators went so far as
to fay that tbey contained diraflicntthe reverse of
what now appears to be t'«e fa<sl. Since their
publication, neither candor, honor nor honsfly
have extorted a confeflion of these attempts tr> de
ceive the people. Let memory do its office, and
it will b« four.4 tha.- time is continually proving
th« falihotrds of thele traytors.
A afks the fcribblirs of the tu
rora, whether they are prepared to give the lie te
Mr, Gerry, when he asserts that the French mm
ifter Talleyrand Perigord, the organ of the direc
tory, fabllantiaily confirmed the proportions of
the persons now called swindlers.
A second edition of Gallatin's speech, with a
COPIOUS APPENDIX NEVER BEFORE PUBLISHED, i'
on sale at the office of the trench paper—-It is
in this way that the agents of the direftory inereaf*
and diffem'nate t'neir poifon,—publithing what
was never fpofeen, a' speeches uttered ia e»ngref6-
"We believe the hour is at hand, when rhefe foreign
gentry will make their la-ft fpeechei io this coun
try : they will be turned off, —butt not hanged.
MR. FENNO,
We hear the vile incendiary Bache, in company
on WedntfHay with Dr, Leib, was disseminating
his political poison among the citizens of the Nor
thern Liberties, and announced his intention of
having a Jacobinical feftival at she Falls of Schuyl
kill on Saturday, where he intended to defennt up
on the answer of the President to tht address of
the Youth of this city—You may therefore expeft
to fee a long Ifll of hellifli toasts, drank on the oc
casion, on Monday next, infected in his fhamelcfs
Aurora.
mr* rtvuo,
Bache, whilst other people were observing tht
Fad Day,* yesterday (except a few Jacobins) ai ev
ery good man ought to do, was circulating his ve
hicle o( feditlbn and lies, hi« newfpsper. He un
dertakes to make i flatement of the poll at the
late Southwark ekiftion : his return I believe is not
corrcdt as to numbers; and as to the political sen
timents of some of the candidates, itis falfe ;
for Mr- Pierce, Mr. Hutton, and Mr. Shed
arc well known to he Federalifls—lf such ara anti
, republican, J know sot what he means by repabli
ean. Io his this morning's paper, he brags of the
Southwark and New York elections, as (hewing the
sentiments of the people at this time: as to the
Ssuth wark police election the Federalists thought it
fp unimportant who were elected commiflicners,
that scarcely any of them attended the ele&ion,
and those merely to Clew that there was an opposi
tion to /mm of their ticket, whilst the Jacobins had [
forty or fifty of their creatures circulating their |
ticket, with thuir usual knavilli schemes—They j
were indnftrious indeed, when there was little or ■
mopfofiicn, well remembering the defeat theyfuf
fered at Israel's cleition.
Anotherjreafon, Mr. Fenno, I mufl give yon
The supporters of government knew that Mr Shed,
Mr. Hutton (who tun aifa in the federal ticket)
and Mr. Pierce, were Federalifis. Had the gov
ernment fide thought it worth while to contefl the
election, they no doubt could have fuccceded —
witness their fuccefs,in the choice of a Federal
Conftahle (in opposition to a violent Jacobin) al
though the faflion had been > t work for a month
lefore. So much for Southwark As to the
New York eleition, I hav# little vo fay 1 the returns
of that (ele&ion) are not to be published before
the end of this month. I know not haw Ben can
lie by antitipati«n ; he knows not that Livingfton
has got his ele&ion, or if so, by more than a majo
rity of one vote. He thinks no doubt it. is bed
tarhira to keep up his trade, and bett«r to tell lies
'time, than to be deprived of tellinj them at all,;
whichl thmk is morally impoflible for him to do,
if he holds (as he mnji do Jto his friend Dr. Frieft
ley's Creed of Necrjfttarianifni, er transports him
felf to his dear mailers in France, where he would
(land a good chance of being rewarded for his fide
lity to them with laying off his back on a plank
and dying as an Atheifl ought to die, with the Na
tional Razor tt> his fuWul gullet,
i A SOUTHWARK FEDERALIST-.
May 10,
Bache's Bordetto<wn Communication.
M* tenno, s . '
Aslhave always, deemed itunneceflary to con-*
tradidt any fafl ttated in Cache's paper, I (hould
have taken no notice of the Ctmmunication in
that paper from Bordentown, if I had not been
informed it has been taken up by some New-
York papers. This Bordentown communica
tion is a plain, flat, democrat c falfhood. It is
certain it came from one of three men in that
village, all of whom arc the devoted disciples
of Tom Paine irv religion, morals and politics,
it is not therefore furprifmg that the truth is not
in them. You may be allured that we fliall en
deavor to trace this communication to its author,
and expose him as he ought to be. In the ad
dress to Corigret's that went from PUrlington
county, above one hundred signers were procur
ed from this place and its vicinity.
Bordentovvn. ' . .
Bache ia his paper of this morning fays,
"it was early foretold that the insidious re
commendation of a British Printer to "the
Youth of this city, to wear a cockade would
be attended with disagreeable consequences.
The prediftionhaa been in a degree verified ;
tumultuous meetings .and riots took place
towards dark but.they were fortunately not
attended with any lerious consequences."
No misrepresentation in too grofsfor Bache,
ordoes he mean that it was by the recom
mendation of the Bnti(h printer a number
of people with Freneh cockades in their
hati met in a twisultucitf and rioto»s maa
uer in tke State-House Yard —Will he be
so good as to tell in a'fo, by whose recom
mendation the magistracy interfered and sent
the most difordetfyof the cockade gentry
to prison—a number of people with Frehch
cockades in their hats ftrefcts, on
the fall-day, go to the place in •
the City—.inf.ilt those who have profeffed
their devotion to their country's cause and
behave in so disorderly a manrterthat the ma
gistrates are obliged ty interfere to suppress
them. Bache with his usual effr6ntery as
cribes to the Badge which distinguishes A
mericans th* tumult of Wednesday evening,
when he well knows that what tnok plaue
was begun by the persOns wearing French
cockades, and ended by themagiftritea fend
ing to prison as many of thofc pei'k.ts as
did not escape either by flight or taking the
cockades out tif their hits—as this was the
badge (the'badge oFa nation who have been
plundering and iufufting a* £or a long time
by whifcfitliey thought proper to dis
tinguish themselves. iiache carinothavc the
credit of meaning this badge when he fays,
"the scenes of yesterday (hoifld be a warn
ing and teach our citizens to difeard a badge
I which can only tend to markdivifions among
us and increase the heat of party spirit f
Yet with refpe& to their badge he would
have been Blent.—No, he means that we
should difeard the badge that dittinguifties
Americans from the enemies of America, i
Brit why difeard this badge ? Can there be
a divilion offentiment upon the pro'priety of ;
rsfolving to defend otirfclves ? If there be, :
then itis efiential that this division be known \
prevloufly and that true Americans be dif- j
tinguifhed from the partizans of France ;
but lam persuaded that so small is the num- '
ber ofthefe people and such their impotence
that it cannot be justly said there is is a di- \
vision among us—how weak they are was I
. so fully demonstrated on Wednesday that no i
furthsr attempts of the kind are to be ap 5
prehended. This is the last effort of the i
boasted diplomatic jkill of the French Di. j
re&ory here, and so clumsy a piece of bijfi- >
ness have their principal agents made of it !
thatiin all probability they will not be
worthy of their hire. Bache disseminates
the atheistical principles of Paine—publifh
es forged letters of. general Wafliington
accuses him of aflaflinatien—accnfes the
Secretary of State taking a bribe
—blushes not when his filfchoods are
detested and exposed endeavours to ridi
cule the age of our Pre'fident. This fame
Bache dares to take within his polluted lips
the awful name of God, of that God whose
holy religion he has endeavoured tefubvert;
he has the front to talk of the good of his
country whose peace and happiness he has
labored to destroy. He has founded the low
est depths of human depravity,and now exhi
bits to the world an example of wickedness
that no man of hi£ years crcr arrived at be
fore. Let none attempt tu dcfcribe him—
language is too weak—nc combination of
words will come so near to exprefling every
thing that is monstrous in human nature as
BENJAMIN FRANKLIN BACHE.
Let him Gnk into contempt, and letoblivion
cover him. AMERICUS.
THE GALLED JA»E WILL WINCE.
The foreign faftion seem to conftder the
alien bill, now pending, as the ruin of zll
their hopes ; and the lamentations of their
prophet, proclaimed is the Aurora of this
morping, was any additional argument re
quired to expl'*"' enforce the expedien
: cy alid neecffity of such a bill, ought to
I convince every lover of his country, and ev
i ery friend to American independence, that
i the fafety of the United States is intimate
ly connefted with its immediate adoption.
Married, on Monday evening last, by the
Rev. Dr. Green, Mr. Robert Jones Heath
formerly ofVirginia, to Miss Hannah Linn,
of this city.
' Wc arse informed, that William North,
E-fq. is appointed by the Executive of this
State, a Senator of the United States, vice
J. S. Hobart, appointed Diftri& Judge.
(Albany G~z.)
FROM NEWBURY PORT.
To the Pre/ident of the Unted States.
SIR.
THE inhabitants of the town of Newbu
ryport, fully impressed with the present im
portant crisis of public affairs,.mre prompted
no less by a feufe of duty thauby their own
feelings, to express those sentiments which
the occafi'on so naturally itlfpires in the bead
of every American. From the long experi
ence of your conduft |tn' the many public
offices to which you have been called by
your own country, they feel the most per
feft confidence in your wisdom, integrity
and patriotum ; and they with cheerfulnefs
declare their entire approbation of your at
tempt to adjust all existing disputes with
the French Republic by an amicable nego
ciation ; of that spirit of conoiliation whioh
di&3tedyour inftruftions to our ministers ;
and'of the principle* of justice on which
they were founded. They learn with equal \
indignation and astonishment that this spirit
of conciliation has been repelled with com
tempt, that these principles of justice have
been disregarded, and that a heavy tribute,
vyith humiliating concessions on our part,
have been proposed to us in a manner arbi
trary and unfriendly, as the price at which
we must purchase the right of being heard.
The inhabitants of this town duly appre
ciate the blessings of peace and neutrality,
but they will never complain at the' loss of
those bleflings when conflrained to facrifice
them to honor, the dignity and the essential
interests of their country. They consider
the present interesting state of public affairs
as a solemn appeal to the hearts of all inde
pendent Americans, and a call on them to
come forward with unanimity and firmnefs,
in support of the government and the men
of their choice—to refill with becoming
dignity any vain attempt to derogate fiom
our common fovercignty, or to degrade our
national charafter fr«m the rank it now jufl-
Iy holds among nation* —to con»ince tlie
world that' we are alike uninfluenced by
corruption and by fear—and that we will
not be it d.fWdrd people, the miserable (laves
of a foreign power, or the drfpicable tools
of foreign influence.
ImpreflTcd with these fentimtfflts, and re
lying wftk full confidence «n the wisdom
and patriolifm of every branch of - govern
ment thev take this occasion solemnly to
pleJge their lives atld fortunes to support
the meafutes judged neceflary by the Pre
fiderit & Congrcfs, toprefcrve and secure the
bappinefs, the dignity, and the essential in
terest of the United States
i 1.
' ANSWER.
* To ihe inhabitants of Newiaryport.
CENTIEMES,
The addfefs of the inhabitants of the an
cient, populous and wealthy town of New
bnryport, passed without a dificn'ieftt voice
at a late mfretingae certified by your feleft
nren, «nd jh-efented to me by yottr repre
sentative in'congrefs, Mr. Baitleit does me
great honor'i r
The aftotiifhment and indignation you
express at the contempt with which a spirit
of conciliation has been repelled, your re
solution never to complain at the loss of the
bleflings of peace and neutrality, when con
j drained to facrifice them to the honor, dig
| nity and essential intcreft of your country ;
|to resist with becoming dignity any vainat
; tempt to derogate from our common fove
' reignty or to degrade our national , charac
ter, from th« rank it now justly holds a
; mong nations, to'convince the world that
▼ou are alike uninfluenced by corruption
and by fear, that you are not a divided pew
. pie the miserable ffaves of foreign influence
I —do equal honor to'your hearts aud judg-
I ment.
[ Your reliance, with full confidence on the
' wisdom and patriotism of every branch of
i the government and the solemn pledge, of
• | your lives and fortunes to support the mea
• j fures of the legifiature and administration,
. to preserve and secure the ha.ppinefs, digni
ty and essential interest of the United States;
are all the affurances-vthich the belt of go
vernments c®uld desire from the best of ci
tizens. JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May Bth, 1798. .
A charity sermon will be preached
by the Rev. Mr. Neale, next Sunday,
in St. Mary's Church at ten o'clock A.
M. for the benefit of the poor-school of
said church.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED,. . DAYS.
Schr. Chloe /Inn, Fitzhugh, Norfolk 4
Jo'ly Sailor, Burrows, N. Carolina 4
Aurora, Coffin, ( do. 5
Peggy, Thomas, Richmond 4
Jupiter, Berbank, New-Tori 6
Nancy, Wilson, Georgetown, S. 6■ 8
At the Fort.
Brig George, Mall, Port de Paix I 2
Schr. Naniy, Galding, Aux Cayes 26
Maria Matilda, Morse, Havauna
CLEAREB.
Ship Dominick Terry, Fleming, Hamburgh
Gen. Wafhingttn, Lark, St. Thomas
1 Brig V/efl-Indinn, Wilson, Maderia
A Rive, Bingham, New-Orleans
Siuift, Brown, .V/. Cmix
' Jane, V*nfife, Cape-Francois
Enterprjze, Lang don, Jamaica
1 Schr. Sick, Ellibridge, Cape-Francois
Sally, Day, Boston
Sloop Dey of Algiers, Tremmels, Marl'mica
Eagle, Dimoci, St. Creix
Eagle, Sritith, St. Kilts
1 Brig * Molly, Kilby, from hence, hns arri
> ucd at Cape-Francois, via St Thomas.
Capt. Hardy, of the America, fpohe, Zifl
March, in the mouth of the Elbe, ' the brig Ly
• dia, Rowland, 47 days from Bojlon, all well.
5 April 25, lat. 36, 47., long. 66, the thipfif
' ters, Stokes, out 7 days from Charleflon to
Hamburgh, all well.
The brig George, Hall, left at Port de Paix,
the 2 sth ult. the Brig Eliza, 0' Connor,
of Philadelphia, vessel and cargo condemned ;
Schooner Patriot, Hammet, do. do. had Pe
titioned for a new trial,' which was granted
and expeSed, that Jhe would be cleared';
- Sloop PerfeQ. Fan neck, do. do. and several
I others, belonging to different ports.
1 The George, on her passage home, was Loan
1 ded by two British vejfels and well treated.
I The Nancy, Golding, from Aux-Cayes,
. spoke, off the Platform, the brig Mercury,
: Bennet, of this port, bound to Leogaue ;
but a British frigate came out the Mole,
- and both vessels went up the Bite together,
r Ship Thomas Chalk'ey, Clark, from
s hence, has arrived at Surinam
New-Tori, January 10.
1 By the ship Chesapeake, capt. Waddcll,
- arrived yesterday in 58 days from Brillal,
1 and 44 days from C«rk, we have received
; papers to March 21. and London papers to
1 the 12th.
1 This vessel waS one of the flejt under the
t convoy which we have re eived account of
by the arrival of the ship Herald, at Boston
e but loft fight of the fleet on the 7th April.
, April 11, spoke the brig Columbia, of
this port. Geo. Coffin, master, out 18 days
- from Rotterdam,inlai.43,3o,long 18,30.
1 May 4, spoke the brig Sally, of Savan
. nah, bound to Glasgow, out 10 days, lat.
- 39 3°» l° n g" 68.
, In the Chesapeake came paflengers-,
f Arthur Noble, Efq,
: Mr. and Mrs Barnett and child.
1 Mrs Dixon,
r Mr. James W.'llcocks,
s Mr* Alexander Walker, jun.
Mr. Alexander Walker, youngest.
a Mr. Thomas Cottrell,
, Capt. Robert Adamfon.
1 Madeira Wine.
» A few pipes of r«maikably fine Madeira, fit
" for immediate use, and at a reduced price—For
r faie by JAMES YARD,
may a daw
CON - R £ S $.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Monday, April irf.
Mr. ston #fk<?d'-M.V(H>6'|' nWj leare
of absence for the remainder of tiie fciTioll 37
to a;i
"?t)e bill directing payment to a detachment
•'of raifvtia foHfcrvices performed in the year
1 79}, lyider'Major James Ore, was read the
third time and puffed.
The amendments of the Senate to the bill
empo-.vcring certain officers and others to ad
minister oaths, were taken up and agreed to.
Mr. That'chfr, from the committee on
the subject of Poff Office and Pots Roads, re
ported that the committee did aot consider it
expedient to make any alteration at present
in rlie art palled in the last winter felTion, 'ef
rabTithijig Post Offices afwl Post Road*. Re
port to lie on the table'.
Mr. Bui.lock prs(Vn**«t petitions
from the freeholders and ot'ners of Staunton
and TqMjnton, in YfafTacliufe'ttsv again# the
srmina of merehants'-v&fTels, and general!/
again/tahy ineafures whicfh might lead to wiir.
They had the famecourfe with other prfJfidns
of the like natirre. " •
On motion of Mr. Otis, the honfe went
into a committee of the whole on the bill sup -
plemerttary, and in aiddftioit to an ait for the
rellgf of persons imprisoned for "debt"; and
after some discussion, and several amendments
made, the committee rose, was difeharged
from a farther confrderation of the lubjeit,
and the bill was recommitted.
Mr. Rutledg b called for the reading of
the bill from the Senate to authorize the Pre
ftderttof the United States to cause to be pur
chaied or built a number of small veflels, to
beequtpped as gallies, or otherwise. It was
read, and rtferred to the committee-os the
whole on the state of the union. The number
of velfels is riot to exceed ten, and the money
to be appropriated not to exceed 80,000 I
dollars.
Mr. Imlay present-ed certain resolutions
agreed upon at a public meeting at Monmouth
in New-Jerfeyy< approbatory of the meaftires
of the Executive, and exprsliive of determi
nations to support all the afts of tlte Govern
ment. Referred as uAial.
A bill was received from the Senate for the
relief &f Joseph Nourfe, and read the firft
time.
On motion of Ml. LiviNGSTO»i thehoufe
went into a coniiraittee.pf the whole on the
report of the committee <sf,claims on the pe
titions of Alexander Macoinb and Wjlliam
Edgar. These petitioners, it appears/ were
purehafirrs of certain lands in the North-west
ern Territory, fold at New-York in 1787,
under the of Congress ofnthe 20th of
May, 17854 Tl>e tnerhorialifts having ne
gleiited to pay the instalments according to
the terms of the Conflitutioa,' the firft pay
ment whicli they made became forfeited.—
They request that Congress will eitherpermit
them now to accomplish the payment us the
purchase money on the original terms, and
thus obtain a grant of the whaleiquautity of
land purchased, ora provision by law tj grant
to them so mueh of the said land as will be in
thepropofition which the sum heretofore paid
bears to the whole amount of the purchase
money. Several of the lots for which these
persons made their contract having been fold
at Pittsburgh, in pursuance of the art of the
18th sf May, 1796, the committee states,
that if the prayer o,f the petition should be
granted, it will be necefiary to indemnify the
p s chafers by granting other lots of equivalent
value. But as the petitioners have fliewn no
reason why they did not fulfil their contract,
excepting that their funds were otherwise
employed, and as the United States muff have
incurred considerable expences in Hie negocia
tion when the contract was firlt made, the
committee of claims can find ni reason why
the forfeiture to which the .petitioners have
fubjecti-d themftlves Dy the terms of titeircon
trait, should be remitted ; they therefore re
port itas their opinion ;' tfjat the prayer oi the
petition ought not to be granted-' The whole
purchase money was 88,764 dollars; one third,
viz. 19,669 dollars-had been paid and by the
contract forfeited.
This report was advocated by Meflrs. D.
Foster, Bayard, Macon, and Allen;
and opposed by Meflrs. I.i yingston, and
Harper. It was agreed to, there being 5;
votes in its favour. The house concurred.
On motion of Mr. Harper, "the house
went into a committee of the whole on'the re
port of the committee of claims on the peti
tion of Captain Thomas Lewis. The petiti
oner prays for extra pay as an Aid-du-Camp
to General Wayne, for a certain, time. The
committee report.that the General had alrea
dy two Aids (which was ail he was entitled
to) and that it was a fettled principle with re
fpeitt to the army, not to pay an officer in two
capacities. As it appeared by the discussion,
rkat Captain Lewis had been employed by
General 'Vayne as an additional Aid, and
that th. it .nciple spoken of by the committee
at claims iiad heretofore been departed from,
the report of the committee was disagreed to,
and k resolution directing the Accounting
Officers to fettle his account, was agreed to.
The house concurred in the repor* and a bill
was direited to be brought injiccordingly.
Mr. Sewall movedthat the committee of
the whole en the date of the "Union "be dif
eharged from the further consideration of the
bill authorizing the President of the United
States to raise a Provisional Army, in order
that it might be referred to a fele£t committee.
Agreed, >( and
On motion of Mr. Sitgreaves, it was re
ferred to the committee for the protection of
commerce and the defence of the country.
Mr. Sewall said, as Mr. Livingston,
who was a member of the committee just
named, had obtained leave of absence for the
remainder of the fefliOn, it would be necellary
to add a member to that committee in his
place.
Agreed, and Mr. Brooks was added.
Mr. Davis moved to meet in future at ten
o'clock, instead of eleven in the morning.—
The motion was loft, only 21 tor it.
Adjourned.
TO BE SOLD, BY
John Nixon $5? Co.
A quantity of very excel lent LOG WOOD
NOW LANDING AT THEIR WHARF.
may 10. 3»wtf
For Sale,
► A good situation for a Country Seat,
Forty acres of Land,
On the Old York road, within fight of Ger
mantown, rnd about five miles from the city ;
the whole being under good.fence, and in ex
cellent order as piflurc grbundj
For further information and terms, apply to
John Elliott Cresson, at his Office for the
■ sale of'RealEftates, Conveyancing, &c. No. 54,
I Iligh-ftreeU
4th mo. 3d. tuicfllt
* XEDERAL GRENALIiiRS. . „
CCJ* The gentlemen corapofing this
new corps, as alio all thrift difpofi d tQ
join it, arc reqnefted to ajTernbfo on
Monday' evening, May 14, 4t Ogden's
tavern, in Chefnut near Third-Street.
N. B. Gentlemen of grenadier
are particularly invited.
VOLUNTEER CORPS.
The Youth of North and South Mul
berry Wards, who aj*e 3efirous of form
ing therrrfeives into a Uniform Volun
teer Corps are requested to meet on Fri
day evening, 1 ith.inft. at the House of
J- Hartly, Swan Tavern, North Third
Street. May 8.
Washington, CommiffioSers Office*
: V f> Mty, 1798.
' I 'HE Conimiflioners will rectivu | ropifals *n.
L til the icith of June next, for 1 ui;3ing in
the City of Wafhingtoh, one of the Executive
Offices loir the United Slates, of the following
CJtttrnal dimenfions: —l4?,feet in length, and
57 feet 6 Inches in hrcacith ; c»J!ar walls 30
inches": firft flory 23 inches ; and second story 18
inches | partition walls avera/ing 15 inches; to
contain on the grcund'fioor (4 roomsfame num
ber on jhe feccnd (lory ; and in the roof g rooms,
withapaflage. The whole external el the bald
ing to be of ftcek hricfe ; the inside walls of hard
burst hrick ; cellars of best foundation Hone* to
the height of the girders; the outside walls, as fax
as they Ihew above ground, to the plinth, to be of
plain aftilar free (tone ; folcs of windows, fills of
dootsand firing course, of free fl/>ne. Thehoufe
to be covere with cvprtls {tingles ; the rooms in
general to be 16 feet by io, finifhed m a piain,
neat manner, of the best materials; fix small
rooms to be groined
A plan and e'ev.«tion of said building, and bill
of particulars, are lodged in the office, 'ortlie-in
fpeftioh of those who may wi "0 to contrail: ; also,
a copy Of said bill, at the office of Clement Did
dle, Esq. at Philadelphia.
Pronofals, fealtd Up, will be received until the
"20th June Hexf, on which day, the bon d will
proceed to contr»a with/uch person, as (hall ap
pear under all circuraflances.to offet the best terms.
Per order of the Commlffioners.
THOMAS MU.VROE, Gkrl..
may ir. lawtsoja
TO BE LET,
PoJTeJJion given Immediately.
THAT well iuj..*,, r.ii.a u :ira, Small'*
ta/«yn, sign of the Black-horse at the raft
end of Bedford. This fhnd'is attended with
many advantages ; there are two houses, the
one stone and the other frame adjoining each
other, toell finilhed and upon a vyry convenient
plan ; the stabling new and large and a pufnp at
the door—besides, there art but. two taverns In
the town. The terms and time of leafing will
be made known by application to *
Dr. "John Anderfon,
cf tht t»vin of Bet/ford.
may 11. ___ iaw6w
A Perl'on ~
Properly qualified, by applying at the Office of
this Gazette, may meet with a Situation as a
School Matter, •
In a Country-Town, within a day's ride of Phil
adelphia .
ma >' " r , *eo3t
Jbor bale,
Tivo cases cf Scotch Threads,
Well afToVted, and entitled to Drawback.
Apply at No s, Ni rtK Water Street
, m] y n ' . . 3t
A few Copies
Of the DISPATCHES from the A
mericajl Ehvoys at Paris, communicated to
Congress in the Preftdenfs Message of. t U
3 d injti why be had at this Office.
Fiirnifhed Chambers—To Let.
"nHOSE Gentlemen, Members of Congress and
1 o there, wifhicg {0 engage for the next f. ffioi»
of Congress, Chambers, fnjrfei(l.«d in a modern
Jtyle, and in a very pleasant and central part of
1 X Clty r l^em b y a pply»ng at the
office of this Gazette ec' w mny ,q*
A Country beat.
"~r>o BE LET for the summer fenfon or by the
X . year, the great,sr part of a large House, in
a high, healthy situation, above the eight mile
Uone, on the Gcrmantown road (occupied orly bv
a newly married couple)- with stabling ana con
vemence for keeping a carnage. For further par
ticulars, enquire ol Caspah W. Haines, In Ger
mantown, or the fubferiher, on the premises.
HEZEKIAH HUNTSMAN.
— may 1 2aw3W
A Premium of 100 Dollars
be paid by the Bank of Pennfylva
» » nia, for such Plan of a Banking House,
accompanied with feSioiis and elevations, as may
be approved of by the Directors. The building i,
not intended to exceed 60 feet front, or too feet
in deprh, and to he so planned at to admit of its
1 S m « de fire prool. If is requested that the
plans may be fen- to the Calhier of the Bank pre
vious to the firft of June next.
P r 'l r 9- tuth'ti J e
Forty Dollars Reward^
in AN AWAV, on the 7th of April, a Negro
Man, namad Slafgeio, perhaps he may *afj
by the name of Glajgoiv Let, or may change hii
name; he is a'out thirty one years of age, nearly
fix feet high, has a fear in the upper par t o'f his un
der lip, a small part being bitten out between the
middle and the corner of his mouth (I believe on
the right fide), his left hand has be n very fore
and was so at tht time h« ran away, by being burnt
some time past : he 1S a Rout, strong' fellow, and
has been employed at a saw mill a few years: he
went away in company with a negro of
Mr. Jolhtia Lingoe, of this county. It •'« (uppofed
they are gone into Delaware S w te. Any p. rfon
that secures said Negro Mail in any gaol, that the
fubfetiber lhall get him again, (hall receive the
above reward. £SME BAYLT.
Stat* of Maryland, ")
Somerfct County ,'aprll 10. j may 4 4W
Notice is" hereby Given,
'T'H AT application has been made at the Bant of
the United States, for the renewal of ihe fol
lowing five Certificates of Bank Stock, loft by the
capture of the Britifii Packet, Countess of Lticef
te< —viz.
No.37ol,containingslhares"> llTued to Henry Ca-
3 7 °3 5 do J zenove Nephcw&Co
73* * do. iffuad to Edwtrdg
and Co.
3'ss 5 do. issued (in lieu of
6509 to 6513) to Samuel and Henry Vaddington.
J 9 lB 4 do. ifiued to Phyn El
lice and 'ngtis.
All pet fans, concerned are therefore called upon
to !hew cause why new Certificates should n.>!jb
iljued agreeably to the fai< application.
April 14 ' e . (w
to,- -WILL BE SOLD, |
On ThurClay ntxt it 7 o'ejork in the Evening
at the Merchants CuffVe-Houfe.
j »% * . THF SLOOP
hjrriot.
Now lying it Messrs. Willing £s* FraneU's
Wharr burthen 7J tons, three years old, well
found ajid calculated for a Coafler.
CONNELLY\ r d Co. Auaioreer,.
may 8 dts.
For Sale, or Charter.
t T H» SHIP
jjrfkyt LIBERT
LAYJNGat VineStre?: Wharf
burthen per regiAer two hundred
eighty-two tons. This veflel
hap bren about eighteen months off the stocks, and
lately returned from a voyage to Holland. She ii»
a prime fader, tav be armed with leli disadvantage
to her than any veffcl in tht*port and may
be f*aat a moderate «xp€ace. Apply to
yoHS sxr/tix,
Lan.icnbergcr*# Wharf,
may 5 diw
" JUST ARRIVED,
htl e brig Gayo£o,capt. Bingham, fr<(| St. Martins
A quantity of SALT,
of an excceUenr quality
A few groee Porter Bottles, new
And twenty caflcs Vinegar
Jlfo, FOR SALE,
Enquire of
Jehu Hollingfworth & Co.
No. ax, Little .Vater Ur«et, South.
April to.
" TOR SALE.
jHavannah Sugar
100 Hides
Will be landed to morrow, at Willirgsand Fran
cis's wharf, from on board the brig Aaive, Will
iam Williams, ma.ter.
faidßrigforl'ale,
And may take in iminedi
ately after discharged.
Apply to
Jehu Hollingfivorth & Co.
inarch jo. §
For Hamburgh,
THE SH If
A T,
ff ' J 0 ' 1 " Majler,
Having great part of her cargo en
gaged.—For freight appiy to
Jeffs bf Robert Wain.
February 46
FOR SALE,
A House and 12 elegmat ,Building Lotsin German
/ town.
ON Monday the 14th instant at 30' clock P. M.
wiU be fold B.y public on the prtmi
fes.
The firft House in the village of Germantown
situated on the right haAd fide of the Raid
leading from Philadelphia. Also 11 building lots
rejoinii!g the -fame, each containing <0 icet on
front on the Grr mint own road, and extending
400 feet on depth.
N. B. A plan of the above lots ntay be fgea pre
vious to the day of sale by applying to
v FOOI'MAN scCo. AuflioMtcrt
.. M a y>-
VIRGINIA TOtfAeeO.
Walker & Kennedy,
No. Ht South Front-Jlrect.
HAVE FOR SAL*,
30 Hoglheads Virginia Tobacco, of Frederickf
burg ?nd Falmouth Infpe<£lions.
joHoglheads ditto of Richmond infptilion.
may 8. tod6t
<1 . . . .
Horses on 3alt\
Several valuable Horses to be Sold, J
Which are perfeflly well broke for either La- (
dies or Gentlemen ; tri»U of them are allowed.
Apply to T. SWANN
at his Hiding School Markef-ftrect, which is
open every day for the pnrpofeof teaching the
art of Horiemarilhip, and the breaking and frain
ibz of Horses.
may 4- -t
"Alex. J. Miller C 3" 'fames Davis,
Having entered into partuer(hip under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller iff Co.
"TNFORM their friepdsip town and country, that '
A they have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store, 1
at No. 64, South Frsnt S/reet, Philadelphia; whws
they now have, and intend kceeping a general af
foitment of India, German, Trill, French and Bri
tijt Mannfat2uresfor sale, on advantageous termr
for cash or a fliort credit.
February 19 §tf
JUST RECEIVED,
FROM PO R T-AU-P aIN CE,
Ami FOR SALE, by the SUBSCRICERS,
jig hhds. Coffee
46 tierces do.
too barrels do.
Too bags do.
XfO ►.og(heads of Muscovado Sugar
80 barrels of do.
40 hogfbrads of Molaffea
4 bales of Cotton
% hogsheads of Cocoa
WILLINGS & FRANCIS,
Penn-ftreet.
march l». §
FOR SALE; - - «
bv the subscribers, No. 41, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges^
» John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Cn ft fling of
Baft as, of various qualities and prices,
. CofTaes Punjum Cloths
Sanahs Guzzeydo. -
Hnmhunss Charconna Dorea
Blue Cloth Tjnjrbs
Chintz and Calicoes MulunuU
Mamoodys Checks
Maharagonges Patna Hkfs.
Ginghams flwlmul do.
Guzzenas Bandfinnoes
Gurtjhs Siflerfoy
Pinisfcoes Choppa Rom lis
Salpatchyi Snory do.
Gfllie Uomals Persians of various 001.
*M«ck Pulicats
too toas SUGAR ,
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Witlings iff Francis.
The Picca Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
commodious flore the north wrft corner ot
Market and Fourth-llreets.
Alio —A few Kales of Madrid Hkfs. of ele
gant patterns ar.dbeU cclour.
February 8. dtf
, treasury
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEi\,
IK pursuance of the \& us C.ngrefi paffcd or. the sixth P.V"'' *4 the
ninety-seven, e.ti.lcd '« An AA laying Jnuet onStawpcd ard n :. lcty .feveß,.ea'-itM
Ad paflied on the fifteenth day of Detain!**, ®«e thou Cm. tf '• cl -roofed jJ.the l£t
•• An Ad CO postpone fur a limited jme the ,f W» rt mer.t of the du«. \ irS ltt « r the
tied - AiAAJtlaying Duties on Stamped Vellum,Parchni-nt a • "P ' w .u be kyied *ud collcc-
I firft day of Jaly enfainj. the several Stamped Duties h«rt»Ucr tuu«
ted throughout the United Stat««.
For every (kin or piece of VeUum or Parchment, or feet or M *
written or printed any or eithv of the inttrumeut. er writings.ollowing j
Ant Certificate of Naturalization, - ,* * , " r( .„;i» rro c S
Any Licence to praflice.or Certificate of the orreg.i« J •
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Prodlor, in aay COWt ot
I V "provM* I hat a Certificate in any one of the Courts of tlie United Suits
for one of the said Office,, (hall so far as relate, to the payment of the
d»ty afwefaid, be a fufficient admifEsn m all the Court».ot the Unite
: *«-•- -
cept for land* granted for military feryices) _ "
Any Charter-Party, BottoAnry, or Kefp<lndeiitia Bo»d, - '
Any Receiptor dif harge for or onaccountof
ther testamentary inttrument.or for any (hare or part of? ®
vide* bv fW of an v (latute of diflrltuH.q., other than to the Wife, CbU
dren or Grand Chil(lr«n oj the person deceased, the amount whe> ict ,W be
above the vi"ue of Fifty Dollar,% (hall not the value of One Hun
When' the amount thereof (hill exceed the valued One Hundred Dollars and
An^'eT/^^S^Fit 1 Hundred U the ***-««s£ ,
Any Policy
' From States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for winch
Insurance is made thall not exceed five hundred dollars, 5
. .gtsr-h, 5,-r.f ■
"SSTwri Ai-.W., .f,h,Cterk rftah lo
A BSttSfe r*m,.
Honor contraa, made to or with the United States or annate, or for their
IfXve fwenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollar, - to
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, 2$
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollar,, 5°
\nd if above one thousand dollars, - - - 7J
' Provided, that if any bonds or notes shall be payiblf at or within fijcty fry*,.
such bonds or notes (ball be fubjefl to only two fifth part» of iho <}uty j
If aho^e r fwe'*nty'dollars and not exceeding ope hundred dollar, - i 4
It above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hupdred dollar s, I io
If above fi»e hundred dollars and not excecdmg one thousand dollars, 20
If above ofte thousand dollars, - * * „n,u
Any Notes ifiueJ by the hanks now eftablilhcd, or that may bereaft.n' be eftah
l&i»d within the United States, other than the not&s ps fucji of the ffid panics
as In all azree to an annual coropofition, of one per cenjura en the anuual tit- ../• gi>J|
vidends made by luch Banks, to their Stockholders refpefl.vely, according m
the following scale. - - " r b
On all notes net exceeding fifty dollars, for eachdollar, -, -
On all notes abov* fifty dollars, and not exceeding oae hundred dollars 50
On all notes above one hundred dollar* and not exceeding five hundred
dollar*, - " " 1
On all note* above five hundred dollars, - * a
Any Ertteft or other Notarial a<3, ' , " . ruixr
Any Le-ter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfioa, or to obtain or fell U ar
rantsfor Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
perfocr.djn the late war, - ' . . '
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for less than
five hindred dollars, - - ' " " 1
For fife hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, 2
For rr.ore thin two thousand dollars, - - 3
Any »ote or bill of lading for goods or merchandize tote exported,
if from one diftriA to another diftriA of the Unittd States, not boing w the
fame Stitc, - " IO
If from the United States to any foreign port or pjaae, - -
ABy Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effetfls, made m m
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods afjd chattels distrained for
rent or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal prociis by any officer,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share in any Insurance Company, of a stare in the Bank of
~ UmteaStatei, or of any State or other Bank, - -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars, , - - " ( »5
If under twenty dollars, at the rateof ten cents for one hundred dollars.
11. -
The: dutiesaforelaid will be colle&ed and received by the Supervisors, InfpeSors aud other Officers
of Infpe&ion, in the several Diftriils, Surveye and pivifions of tjie United States, and by such other
persons as (hall from t» time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diflrids for
that porpofe. '
111. '
The Supervisors of the fnveral Diftrifis will, prior to the firTTday of July'enfuing", and at soon as
may be pra<9ica&le, markorftamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or. parcels of Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, ob payment of the said duties j Or
(lamped vellum, parchment and paper ruay at the option of the Citizens of the United States, b,e'ob
tained at the rates prescribed by law, by application to any Supervilor, Infpsaor, Officer of liifpeClien,
or other periba appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diftrid?
GIVEN under my Haud, ft Pbilctdelpbia
the day and year abovementio^ed.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secretary of the Trcafury.
James Humphreys,
BEING encouraged by a number of gentlemen
in the mercantile line, to undertake the pub
lishing of a Price Current in this city, and they
having engaged to give him every afliftance in tbeir
power to render it accurate and ufeful,
PROPOSEB TO PRINT BV SUBSCRIPTION,
The Philadelphia Price Current,
And Market Day Advcrtifer.
T» be publilhed every Wednesday and F_-'nrday
morning, on the following conditi' **
It willbe printed on four pages quarto. It will
contain the Prices Current (wholelale) at Phila
delphia, with the duties on each article—The Pri
ces Current at BoSon, New-York, Charleston,
and other pari* of the United States, with the Pri
ce. Current at I.ondsn, the Weft Indies and else
where as often as they call be bad accurate and to
be relied on. The rat«s of price
of (locks—courfeof exchange, &c. &c. Likcwife
a regular account of entries, inward and outward
—with such marine and other intelligence as (hall
be thought ufeful and important the remain
der of the paper will be appropriated to advertife
mentj.
The price to fubferibers within the city and li
berties to whom it will be delivered at their hou
ses, willbe Four Dollars per a»num—Two dollars
at the expiration of a month from its publication,
and the remainder at the end of the year. Sub
(criberi at arrester diftancewill have it sent them
agreeable to their direilions—to pay o dollars at
the time of (übferibing, and the remainder at the
end of the year.
The publication (hall commehce as toon as a fuf
ficient number have fubferibed to pay the expence
of conducing it.
igj" It is from the advicti and to gratify the wilh
of a number of mercantile gentlemen that the
printer proposes publiftiing this Price Onrrent in a
q'jjrtofizein preference toany other. And it is
propofad to embrace the Prices Current with such
other matters may be mod materialtofend abroad
in the firft two pages—appropriating the other two
to such matters as r«ay be more ipiir.cdiately do
mellic, and to adveitifcments.
Subscriptions are rsceivcd by said H'.mphries, at
his PriMmg Office; No. 74, Nonh third-ftreei,
and Mr. Z.*4?eulfoh, jun. at'hisolhce in Chcfaut
.Ucet, and at the Philadelphia library.
Philadelphia, April 14. f t f
For Sale,
A CONVENIENT well built fedond hand Light
Waggon, hung on Jacks with glaff.s and
blinds in the doors, with or without harness
Enquire of Peter UmericVhoufe, Arch, below
Sixth street, or the fubferiber in Gerinatitowh.
CASPAR IV. HAINES.
April 2 *juwjw
Frelh Teas.
Jujl Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sale y by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Comptisg House, No. 54, Chofmjt-llreet,
AND RV
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At h» Compting Houfc, Crooked billet wharf,.
Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon, Young
Hyson, My£oo Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, asserted; black and coloured Lute
strings and Sattins, Nankeens, Cafßa, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and.lutestring Umbrellas,
whalc-bonc flicks.
They lavt also Pot Sate,
Ell wide PerGans, Handkerchiefs,
French Carabricks and Umbrellas, Sugar ir boxes,
march 8.'," §
Now Opening,
At William M'Laws Saddle Manufn&ory,
No. 72, Chefnut Street,
A general aflbrtment of Horseman's
Pistols, direct from the Manufailurers in Loudoa.
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartouch Boxes, Vi
lices, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
April 9 dtf
City Commissioner's Office,
January 12th, 1798.
FOR THZ INFORMATION OF THE CITIZINS.
nTHE fallowing arrangement is made by the
JL fajd cointcilfioners, for cleanfmg' the
ftrects, itc.
Diftrift No. r.—Prom the north fide of Vine
street, to the south fide of Mulberry street; to
he under the fuperintendance of Nicholas Hicks.
a From the south fide of Mulbrry street, to
the south fide of Ckefnut ftrreet, to be under the
fuperintendance of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide cf Chejnut street to
the north fide of Spruce street, to be under the
fuperintendance of Joseph Claypoole.
4. Frotn the north fide of Spruce street, to the
south fide'of Cedar street, to be under the fu
perintendance of Hugh Roberts.
;£/" When pumps are out of order south of
pleafe apply to Thomas Dixey, at the
corner of Sosth and Fifth-ftreets, or Godfrey Geb
ler, in Fourth, near Chefnut-ftreet 5 and north of
High (Irect, to Dixey and Dehaven, in .Saffafraj
ftrrct, bctwasn Sisthand SjYcnth-ftrcjts.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
March 30lb. 1-798.
Public Notice!l hereby given,
THAT byanaA of Congrcfs pafi'od o" the
10th dav of March, .798, the following
alterations and amesdno".nts hive been madeto
the sa-paffed otithe 6th.day oi July 1797> en "
litled " An a<ft laying ott ttaroped vci
" lum. parvhmenVanii paper."
I. -
The fiaaip dutiw on debenture* or wrtih
c*ta for the drawback j»Cuitoms or dutieson
Imports ire repealed.
\ difeount at thtrate of seven a&d one half
per Centum, will be allowed by the Supervisors
or Initiators rcf.etfivrly, to any persons other
than <h« Kcv«nn«, who may pur
ebaft at on- <mwror procure to te ftaroped, any
quantities of \ieilum, P*cW«t rr Paver, upon
which the dmes Thill amount to Ten dol
lars or upwards.
111.
Stamptfl Faptr, will fie and fold at
rtir rate* preferred by W*-, WiHtout any addi
tional charge-or on vcoimt of tli
pri.■? of Pbpt*; but for ftsmped P«rchme»t oir
Vellum, an adC-itional p'r;ce wilt be dcmam.ed
at the rate oM""iity Cents for each fkiu of Parch-'
ount, or Twß Hundred Cents f.* taeh ftin of
Vellum of medium fizej uhich may be ftii ui'ft
ed at the expciife of the United Stiles and pro
portionally for (jUamrty.
Given under mt hand, at Philadelphia, the
day and ye ir a!>pve>nentioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
SfCi-rUirj of the Trfaftry.
~ W A N'T E D,
APPROVED BILLS on Amfterdam—fo^ which
calh will be given at the rate of thirty seven cants
per guilder. Enquire of the Cashier-os the Bank
, of the' United States. § april 23.
~ IJANDTNG,
,Frcm on board the (hip Elizabeth, captain Paifiie,
1 {rum Batavia,
And FOR SALE by the Strßscßiistß,
400,000 wt. Java COFFEE
300 C3nifters SUGAR, of a superior quality
Also,
A quantity of SAP AN WOOD
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
April 17. £_
Thomas & Joshua Fisher,
HAVf FOR. SAIE,
At No. 5, Dock-ftreet,fiear the Drawbridge,
China ware nankeen dining feoa, ua aad coffee
cups aud faucets
Nankeens, black fattins andtaffiries
Pnngem cloths, choppah romalfs, and
China ahd Engliih umbfeHas, • 1. ■
Together -Ju'tth fnl fffortment of European
Goods— among which are
Scots thread in boxes '•
6d. Bd. iod. lid arid 2od..nails
Shpt—-T- Crowley ftetl, Spanifli brown and white
lead '
Engtifh fcvthes42 to 50 inches
ALSO,
in barrell«of kiln A-yedlndian corn meal.
AcomirjodiousStornnDock-ftreet,
No. 7, to be let, three stories high, suitable fori
any bnfinefs.
4th mo. sth stf
SAUI PET RE.
One hundred kegs of refined Sfelt Petre,
For Sale by tkc Subfcribets.
James C. Iff Samuel IV. Fisher,
No. 13, ArchStraet,
march 3J 4tawtf
» * * • • ' • • 1 '
Joseph Ricardo,
OF.tbU City, Merchant, ha» assigned his pro
perty for the benefit of his Creditors, to James
C. Filher, Samuel W. Fisher, and Thomas Wllfon.
All persons who have demands are re
queued to furnilh their accounts without delay—
and those indebted to make immediate payment to
theSubfcribers, a&ing Assignees.
Jantes C--fc Samuel IV. FiJlter.
—: — ~~ No. 13, Arch Street.
march $ 1 4tawtf
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, th<j2oth
infl: Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Sewn' Dollars, at WM. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-flreit—
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dtltars, where check books are kept lor r«gifter
ir.g and examining in these, the City of Walhing
ton, No. U.and Pattsrfon Lotteries, atld"informa
tion where tickets maybe had in moll of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The b»finffs«f a Broker, inbuyingand
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcointing Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, &e.&c. will be duly attended to,
by WM. BLACKBURN.
N ovem'-isr 1 r. ' $
JUST RECEIVED. "
And for sale by W.Younj;, corner of Secprid
and, Chefnut-ftreet, M. Carey 118 Hi&fy-ftreet
T. Dobfon, 41 South Second-street and the
Booksellers generally,
(Price ?-Sths of a Dollar.)
BEACON HILL,
A Local Poem, btftoric and deforiptive 1
By a Lady of Bojlon.
ANALYSIS OF BO OKI.
AUuCon to the furroinding Profpedi—iDrocation
to the River ar.d fybran Deities—to the Historic
Mufe—FiAi«.n discarded—Dedication to Waili
ington—The A&ion opens at the Retreat of the
Columbians from-Eupker's Hill—general Howe
—The Memory of his Brother—Death of War
ren—Perfsnilication ef Fortune and Fame—
Washington at Mount Vernon—called to the
chief Conimiud—Formation of ths Columbian
Camp at Cambri Ige—Natural, moral, or poli
tical of the several States—Their com
manding Officers—Siege of Bolton—lts Suffer
ing9—Negotiation for the fafe Retreat of the
Britilh Army—lts Departure—Appointment qf
Congrefi,—Declaration of Independence—Cha
rafter of the Columbian Soklies—The Poet's
prophetic Apofifophe to the Progref, of Free
dom throughtut the World,
march 30. $
To le Let,
(And pofTflTion given on the ift of May)
A genteel three! 'story brick House,
2.2 feet front, and 40 feet deep, with hack buildings
and ftibles,atj>re£ant intheteuivre of Major Jack
son. Enquire at 187 Souto Third street.
April i, ,
JUST PUnpSHED, : ~
AND FOR SALE AT THIS OFFICE}
f Price 25 Cents J
Reflections on Monroe's View
OF TUB COKDVCT or THE EXECUTIVE,
As ptiblilhed iathe -
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
Under the signature of
SCIPIO,
In milch the Commercial Warfare of France retraced
to tirFrcnch Faction in thitCountry, as its Source,
arJ tie t*-Ai-se! of Qppof/tlcn,
The following Certificates of
FUNDED -DEBT CFTHE UNITED STATU
STANDING on th»Book«of the trcafuiy, wck
forwarded for Londou by tha ship Willuni
I'enn, Captain Joiiah, which hath beeH capture
and the Certificates fnppofed to be loft, viz : *
3/64. 82. Dtfarred debt, in the. name of Rev
Edward iiiddy, of Thredrea, in Cornwall
Cirtat Britain, <ktedjunei, i; J7 . CeWiSaate
No. 10,072.
«ou. if. Six per Cent. Stock, in the citne of
Edward Home, of Bevia mount, Hanta, Grcit
Britain, teted May 30, 1797. No. 15196.
36m. 50. Deferred Debt, in the Bame of WilL
' iam Manning, of Ofmlhy, in the county of Nor.
folk, in England, dated July 10, 1797. No.
; K)199.
aoi23- 7«- Three?er Cent. Stock, in the nara»
of Ja»net Msthaw, of Upper Seymour street,
Loudon, Widqjtv, dated October j t , 1797. No!
n8?o.
For the renewal of the above Cert'.Satea, ap
plication is »i*«ded-K> be made at the siM effi'ceof
theTreafury of the United Statas,—aod all-par.
fona concerned aredefired-to take notic{.
also—lll Tan »A«*'»*asEL,
Fifteen fliajret Storkof th« BinkofUniiedStatoe in
the name of William Maorrng.of Qrnjfcy, coun
ty of Norfolk, England, viz. Three Certificate*
for five ftures each, dated January j, 1707.
No. 25981, 25983, 25984.
For the renewal of which,application is meant to'
be made to the said Bank of the United States*
and all persons concerned therein are deiired't*
take notice.
y.v. rAuciiAx.
Philadelphia, may 4.
The following Certificates of Shares
IN the North American Land CoT.pany, ttandir.o
on the Books of laid Company in the nam; of
Dan,el Lifter, of Hackney,, in the county of Mid
dlesex, England—via. No. lift, representing
13096 to 13105, ten fharti—Xo. 2150
i 13075. teu fharss—No. to 15065,
ten shares—No. 2148— j 1509 to 11518, ten fearea
No. 2147 —11471 to 11480 —Amoanticg to
Forty Shares, were forwarded for I/ondon by the
fn;p William Penn, which having been captured
said certificates are funpofed to be 101 l ; for the ra.
nowal sf which, applics:ion will be made to the
Board of th« said company.
Daniel Neal Lifter.
may I M6w
ROSS & SIMSOM)
HAV£ FOR SALE,
22 bales superior Madrafs blue Cloths
Carolina Indigo, £r(l quality
A few bales Baftas, Coffees, and a quantity ef
Befiyal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
W- d J
april 20 §
L AN DING,
From 00 board the Ship Sally, frtm
Calcutta,
AND FOR SALt BY THE SUBSC It 1B E R.,
1600 bags prime Sugar,
800 do. Ginger
30 bales low priced piece Good®.
John Miller, Jun.
march 3 $ .
TO BE sold; '
40,959 acres of Land.
IN Greene Comity, Commonwealth of Pennsyl
vania, on the waters of Fifli and Wheeling
Creeks and Ten Mile Ruh.
These Lands areftrtile and well timbered, and
abound in Coal ; they were fdld ten years ago for
five fcillinga per acre ; patented early in 1787, ei
cept 3700 acres, which were pat'entad in 1791;
part of them were surveyed in 1783. The tra&.
is between the Ohio and Monongahela, very con
venient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of Walhington, from 14 to 16 from the
village of Greenefburgh and Wheeling.
On payment of one leurch of thepurchafc mo
ney, a reafonabls credit will be given forthe resi
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april 21. f
TO BE SOLD,
~2o,7Bolicres of LancT,
IN the State of New York, between the norther*
bounds of Peanfylvania and the Sufqifehtaaa
now, or late in the towhfhipa of Hamuen and
Warren and county of Warren.
These Lands, 1-om the ir quality and fmiation,
are a very deSrabl:* objeift for any man who meant
to invest his mpney to advantage.
On payment of one third of the purchase mo
ney, a rcnfouable credit will !-e given for the refi
liue. Enquire of the Prinaer.
April 2T. (,
Saliffeury .Eltate.
THE Sublcribcr, propDling to contraf* his biifi
nefs* offers this Eilate tor sale, on moderate
terdis. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces#
a complete Borejng Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of ftoccs ; alio a good Forge', all
in perfeft repair, as are all the Water Works conneft
cd with these various The Air Furnaces
were lately bd'.lt for the purpose of calling Cannon
For this State.—-There are about two thoufaod acres
of Land, oneltolf of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Pasture. The Cannon lately mannfa6«red there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which it
(uperior to any in this country, andjgtoaahly,equal
K>*amy ia the world \ for not «»mc of' fixty-nißegiiß#
lately made, although some of the 24 were bored
into 32 pounders have failed 00 proving. The fitu
ationis very eligible, particularly for this bra&ch of
maiiuf-a&urc, and a place ot arms lying ioijieftate
of Gonnefticut.and owly 30 miles from fcveralland*
ings on the liver, and Having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water iiToieg
trapl a, large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
anrl which may be converted into a variety ot other
tifeful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with ail theftoclcand utensils, aod hav« poffeflion
on or before the firft of June next, and preparation
may be made in the mean wme for goinginto im
mediately thrresftfcr, pait will be delivered
in good eTder, with fame coal, Ore, Ac* Sec. fror
term?, apply to Mr. |ofeph Anthonv, in Philadel
phia ; David Brooks, Klq. one of*be Ivcprefcntalivei
in Congress for this State ; Mr, D«vid Watnman, oa
theprem-jfes, or totheproptietor in New,-York.
WILLIAM NEIUON.
Dee. t. 3» wtf
For Sale,
BYTHt SUBSCRIBER, NO 10, CHESMU** STiEST,
11 Calks of Carolina Indigo,
Which will be fold on realonable terms on a ftcrt
credit.
Roiirt Hetitierjbn. j
_?pri! a '
Notice—Agreeably to charter,
Is hereby given to the irembefs of" the cor
poration for the relief of poor atid dWreut
prflbyterian ministers and the poor an J diftrefTeo
widows and children of prelbyterian .nimftersj
a meeting of said corporation is tobehold
en,onthe 16th day of May nex'i 4'offloclc
P. M. in the second preftyteriaa churth in the
e»tjr»f Philadelphia, for the dl/patch of all fuc
buiinafa as may then be brought e
board. ASHBEL GREEN,
Secretary of the Corporation.
April 7. to»ti6«