of tije Muttctj and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1710.J
SALT.
to 4000 bulhels of large
grained SALT,
"Fr®m St. Martin's on hoard the ftiip Spy, at the
Still House wharf—far sale by
Stephen Kingston,
46, Walnut Street.
af"3ri sAib sHir
aM@L. Will fail in a few days
JJV" I*3 Por Savannah in Georgia.—For freight
or paiTage apply as above, or to the
Captain on board.
February 8 7 *e»djt
For Hamburgh,
THE I H IP
Dominick. Terry,
% Jacob Deha*t» Master,
Having great part of her cargo en
gaged.—Far freight apply to
JeJfe 6j* Robert Wain.
Fehru-.'y 16 S
Nicklin & Griffith,
At their Store 011 Walnut Street Wharf—
-1 HAVt FOR *ALS,
jt hh«ii. of Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wine in pipes andhhds.
Teneriffe do. in p'pea
Old Port do. in hlris.
Imperial Tea in quarters ind eighths of cherts
Sail Canvass, No. I, to 3
Dimities, Ginghams, and MuJlinets, in packa
ges fu(tabic for th« Weft-India market
Kails aborted g
Black quart bottles *
Queens ware in hhd«. and crates
Yellow ochre dry in calks ;
And at New-York, on board the
(hip Diana, from Liverpool, txpedled r»uild
as fnnn as the navigation is open,
Fine Liverpool Salt
Coals q
Spanish Brown T
Venetian Red
Purple Brown 8 PA INT 3
Patent White f
White Lead I
Red Lead j
Golcothar vitriol
i6p bundles Sheathinjj paper
Seaming Twine
For Sale or Charter.
ALSO,
firm of Philip Nicklin & Co.
is now ohaticed to
NICKLIN £s* GRIFFITH.
January I. eodtt'
tor Savannah,
Thefafl failing Ship
SWIFi PACKET,
jy?- (a regular trader)
m :i '£>> Patrick Gribben, majler,
WILL fail «n the J<th mil.
(ice permitting) haVhandfrme accommodations
for pass I'gers. Pof freight or paiTage apply to
the ma iter on Horrd, at Bickley's wharf, above
Market -Hreel, or
N. W J. Frazicr,
No. 91 1 Sooth FroHt-flifct.
I
tor Amiterdam,
1 - L The Ship
FARMER,
John M'Coilom, Msfter ;
W ILL fail in a fear days, the
SSeSitvSi' greater part of her cargo being
ready. For freight of fifty tons of CofFne, or
paflage, apply to the master on board, at Wal
nut-street Wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is landing, out ot the said Ship, from
Bourdeaux, and for sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter calks
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fontiniac,"}
Santerne, > Wines in cases
Lunille, ,1
Prunes in boxea
Novcmbe 14.
For Sale or Charter,
&pL GOODHOPE
Will carry about iaoo barrels, and
is ready to take in aeargo. For terms
apply t®
Pragers & Co.
No. 151, South Second-street.
Who have for fate—prime St. Croix Sugar
and Rum, Madera, Lisbon, and Teneriffe wins.
November 7. dtf
At a Meeting of the President
and Managers of the Diiaware and Schuylkill
jCanal Company, February 17th, 1798,
Rcfulvei, That ten dollars on each (hare nS Stock
be called for ; and that the Treasurer
give pmblic notice thereof agreeable
to law.
ExiraS frsm the Afimtes.
GaORGE WORRALI,, SnreUry.
AGREHABLE to a refolntlon ol th« PreGd*nt
•nd Manaffcrs of the Dels-wit W SduyUUl CstaJ
Ctffiny, the Stockholders are hereby requ red to
make a payment of ten dollars on each of their
relce&ive lhares on or before the Ift of >pril neat,
r WM. GOVETT, Tntfurn-.
February 18. _ aawt A
JWTHE PRESS', *~
AMD SPEEDILY WILL BI PUBLISHED,
(Price a j CeMiJ
Reflexions on Monroe's View
tr TMt conduct or rur smcorirt,
A» publiflicd in the
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
Under the fignaturn of
SCIPIO,
In which thee ommercial warfare of France is
traced to the French faflion in this dftuntry
as its fonrce, and the motives of the opposition
to the meafuies of the U»i'ed States are rxpofed.
r«w. s
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, MARCH 3, 1798.
To be fold at Vendue,
At tke Coffee House, at 7 o'clock in the evening,
on the 5cU of March next,
The Hull of tht
Ship JOHN\
AS file lie*, and three Anchors
•JUSStxiSm. lying under the bow, cut away af
ter (he bilged. Stranded at he motn# of Cohan
fee creek. She was built i# Newbaryporc ajjout
five years ago, was coppered last fnmmer in Ham
burg, and measures about 500 tons.
ALSO AT THI lAUI TIMI,
Apart of the Cargo which unot yet got out her, fay,
tons of Iron
4 boxes of Iheet Copper
70 boxes of window and hollow Glass
All for the benrfit of the concerned.
JOHN CONNELLY U Co. AuS'rs.
February 28 dt3M
To be Sold at Public Vendue {
At Chefiiut-ftreet Wharf,
On Monday, the stb March next, at 11 o'eloet,
The following Articles, saved from the wreck
of the Ihip John, and fold for the benefit of
the concerned
It Bolts of Canvass 1 Main Top Sail
I Fore-Sail I Main Top Gal. Sail
I Fore Top Sail I large new Cable
I Jib j bbls. of Pork
144 Sleets of Copper Half a bbl. Beef
1 Ship Bell A few bbls. Floar, Peat
and Bread
A quantity of Chain Bolts, Rings, and sun
dry Iron, with a large afTortmcnt of all kiivls of
Rigging, Blocks, liooks and Eyes and 'Thim
bles, &c.
a small Copper Boiler* 30 Water Calks
4 Compailes 7 Glass Windows
1 Lanthornt iTowline
11 Spars I Hawser
1 Iron Cambonfe A quantity old Junk
I bbl. Tar I large Wheel
1 bbl. Copper Naiis I small Anchor
31 boxes Window Glifs 3 old Cables
45 straws ot Tumblers 1 chest with Medic.
I brass Stove a bbls. Pork
a Tablet 3 Chairs
And fundrv oth-r articles.
JOHN CONNELLY fcf O. Aua'rs.
Feb. «8 dt;m
Valuable Property for Sale.
FOli SALE,
THAT well known Estate, called SHREWS
BURY FARM, formerly the reGdence of
General John Gadwalader, lituate on Saffafras Ri
ver, in Kent county, Maryland—containing a
bout 1900 acres of prime LAND, upwards of JOO
of which are in woods. The Buildings are all ex
cellent, andconfiftof ahandfome Dwelling House,
two large Barns with Cow houses, Stables for fifty
horses, a spacious treading floor under cover, a
granary, two Overseer's houses, two ran
ges of two story buildings for Negroes (one of
them new and of brick). Corn houses, a Smoak
house , 4c. See The .whole Estate being nearly
fprrouncied by water, it ; rcquires but Tittle fencing,
and has a good Shad and Herring filh ry. It is
conveniently fit jated for both the Philadelphia and
Baltimore markets, with two landings on a navi- '
gable r>vtr but a fiiort fail from Baltimore. There
is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
th<- pi emifes; also, a variety of excellent fruits of
different kinds. The foil is mostly a rich loom.—
The whole will bs f Id togeth r, or divided into |
frraller farms (for which the buildings areconven- ;
iently situated) as may suit the [urchafer. The
Stock on bid Farm, conC'fting ot Horses, Cattle,
Sheep, &c. will aHo b difpoi«4oi.—i or further
particulars a; piy toGeouoe Hastincs, on the
premiles, or t-i the ftiT'fciber, in «i adel^hia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jus.
February 24, iaw6w
Twenty Dollars Reward,
FOR taking up a runaway fervaut named
Abigail Miller, latterly calling herfelf Betsey
and fencing her to North Frotit-fireec, No.
45. She is of a chunky make, and very dark
complexion, with round features, and black bushy
hair; probably much altered by paint and pow
ers, as (he i§ (uppefed to be fecrcted in houses of
d fame, though no more than fifteen years of age.
February 19 coaw
Surveyor General's Office, >■
December a, 1797.
ON a releifc of survey of 433 acres.6B perches
of land, fuuate in lower Smithfiel ! townfliip
Northampton county, surveyed to <Villiam Wills,
prr warrant of id March, 1786, the Deputy Sur
veyor hat>h made the following note, viz.
This land claimed by heir!. »f I.ewis Clordon and
George Taylor, not known by what right—Cer
tified for Daniel Broadhead, F.fq. Surveyor Gene
ral—William Parker.
The firft Monday in March next is appoin'ed for
a hearing of the parties on the a ove c.veat, or any
others interefled or concerned therein, they having
at leafi thirty days notice for John Had, Secretary
of the Land Office.
N. Lufborough.
Jammny aS ftiFawtnt
Landing this day,
From on boacd the schooner Two Friend*, Dan ■
lei Cratfley, Mailer,
«^t a " d I Jamaica RUM,
r» pipes ) J 7
FOR SALE BY
Getrge Latimer & ion.
nevemter 9.
ROSS iff SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
j A few bales Baftas, CofTas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in tags atid boxes
Jamaica, 1
St. Vincents, > RWM.
and Bengal J
300 calks RICB, and
A parcel of Ihip building RED CEDAR.
Oft.a 7 . - §
James C. Ssf Samu ' VV. Filher,
AT THEIR SI\)XE,
N0.?13, corner of Arch and Front street.
UArt. 10K SALS,
Cotton and worded Hosiery in trunks, adored"
A few hales red, white, and yellow Flannel
Ditto futty romall Handkerchielt
Ditto Pullicat silk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs ditto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengsl black Taffctict /
4000 pieces Nankeens, and
Few cheSs best Hyson Tea
Alfr—lfoo boxea belt London Window Glass,
from Bby4,to 19 by 14 —aad IJ hhds. Olafs
Ware alfortad, which they w,lldilpofc of cheapef'
than any in the city. .
Nov ii 3tawtf
By John Ff;nno, N* 119 Cbefnut Street.
NOTICE.
WHEREAS a Certificate to Hannah Shel
ly, of Oxtrd Cottage, in 'he County of
Surrey, in Great Britain, Sptnlter, or her afiigns
fortwo thoufend live hundred and Gxty-two dol
lars twenty-three cents, in the deferred flock of
the; Usincil States, was loft in the (hip Peggy,.
Capt. Hycr, bound from Philadelphia to London
in the year IJ9&. The lultfcriher, the said Han
nah Sheily, intends to apply to the Treasury of
the United States, tar a renewal of the f-»id Cer
tificate.
HANNAH SHELLY.
Feb. 13. ' law6w.
THE term of Co-partnership between the sub
scribers, trading under the firm of John Mil
ler, jun.and Co. expires this day, au i by mutual
consent will rot be renewed - The debts and «oo
cerns of the sam * will be fettled by John Miller,
Jun. to whom all those the pannerlhip
are earncftly requested to make payment to, with
out delay.
JOHN MILLER, Jim.
ALEXANDER J.MILLER.
February rg §tf
FOR SALE, bt
John Miller, jun.
No. $, Chefnut-tlrret,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
—•AMONGST WHICH .UE
Gurrahs Mamsodies
Baftas Sannas
Ouzzenas Tanda Coflaes
Cozzies Emertics
Blue Cloths Caliches
Palampoors Romall Handkerchiefs
.Amongst them are a great proportion of 121# ma
nufadures of Patna.
British Dry Goods,
ALSO,
Forty puncheons of high proof Rum*
February T9
Alex. J. Miller iff James Davis,
Having entered into partuerfhip under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller & Co.
INFORM their friends in town and cosntry,that
th< y have opened a WholeTdle Dry Good Store, j
at No. 64, South Front S/reet* Philadelphia ; where
now have, and intend kceeping a general as- ;
fojtmsnt of India, German, French and Bri
tijb Mannfadluresfor sale, on advantageous termr
for eafh or a (hort creait. v * '
Fehrwary 19
For Sale by the Subscriber,
Forty-nine bales of Muslins, being the re
mains of the Ihip India'* last cargo from
Calcutta, and will be fold low,
7 Boxes of Umbrellas
25 Pipes of fined particular Madeira wine,
of the vintage of 1795.
Mordecai Lewis.
February 19 d2w
A PRINT.
rHE Print, reprinting General Washing
ton and his family, all whdle lengths in one
groupe, will fce ready for delivery by the 15th of
March t»eitt.
An unSnilhed impreflioo is to be seen at Mr. M'El
wees*s looking-glass ttore. No. 70 South Fourth Street.
Tne fubferiotion will close on the ioth of March
next Sub'c ibers depend on having the btft
Prints at one guinea and an halj. To non-lubfcribers,
the price will be iwo guineas*
Februarv 19.
FOR SALE,
A quantity of CALF SKINS, in the rough,,
and feme horse leather. Applyto
ROISfcRT SMITH W Co.
No. si, South Front street.
Feb. 15. diw
NOTICE
IS hereby given, that the Subscriber, an insol
vent debtpr, C9nfined in the common |?oal of
the County of Cape May in the Hate of New-
Jersey, hath presented his petition to the Judges
of the Inferior Court of Common Pleas, in and
for the said county, pra\ ing that they would
attend to hear what can be alledged for or a
gainff his liberation", pursuant to an adl of the
Legislature of this State,entitled "an a& for
thi- relief of insolvent debtors," paiTsd the a6th
dayof Ja'Uiry 1798 —And the the fa:d court
did appoint Monday the J6th day of March
next for the purpose aforefaid ; to meet at the
Court House in the Middle Piecinfl, at eleven
o'clock, in the forenoon of the said day, e»f which
his creditors are requeft»d to take notice.
CHARLIiS ALLEN.
Cape May, Feb. 8, 1798-
Feb 14 —tawtw
Prison Manufactory.
FOR. SALE,
At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of all sizes, from jdy to 20dy
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped LogwuOd
Shoemakers and Sadl'.rs Thread
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and head Hones, hearths, chimney piecea,
platforms, llabs, facia, window heaJi, (iljs, c .
All which may he had on reafonablc terms.
Shoes made and Weaving douc at said Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders from a dirtance, directed to Dantel Tho
mas, agapt for the pnifon, will be attendad to.
December it mth&m
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
A valuable Lit of Ground ; «
SITUATE on the north-raft corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one huudred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street j there are at
present two small two story brick houl'et, and a
number of small tenement* therepn.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient ftorea, wharf, Sic. Gtuateon
Water street, between Mulberry an l Saflafras
Street', containing in front an Water ftrept fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix iaches. These houses
have the convenience of a public alley adjoin
ing an tJie »oi th fide, and area very defirablefit
uatioii tor a a merchant, flour faflor, or others
who may have occasion for (Wage of goods.
This property will be fold on very reasonable
terms for rath. For fnrth«r information apply
ts the printer.
July 31. miwtf
Edward Dun ant,
No 149, South Fronr-ftreet,
Has still remaining of the Cargo of the Johanna,
from Malaga,
66 keg* Sun Raisins
91 jars fine Bloom ditto
»i hhds } u P erior Catalonia Wine
Mountain and Malaga Wine, in hogflieads and
, quarter calks
And a few qr calki fine old Colemenar Wine
He bat tffr, a fivt factagu tj
Calcutta and Madrafs Goods,
Confiftitig; of Humhsima, l ickeries, PatnaChintz,
Bandanna, Pullicat and Barhar Handkerchiefs,
Choppa Romal*, black and coloured Pcrfians, and
black Pepper.
&• Wanted—A Male and Female
SERVANT, of unexceptionable charasfters.
march 1. •neod
To be Sold,
A BRICK HOUSE, together witk the Lot
thereto belonging, <n the city of Burling
ton, New-Jersey. The house has three rooms
below, and three chambers in the upper Horr.
1 be kitchen adjoining is a frame bull ing. The
Lot has a front of 7a feet on Pearl llrect, and
the fame front on the river Delaware. The
length of the Lot is about 250 feet—The hoefq
commands a very pleasant profpeil of the river
of the Borough of Bridal, 011 the Pennfyl
vania fliore. Infrnediate pofictlion may be had
For further particulars, inquire of Mr. John
Sinn, next door below the City Tavern in Piii
lad»lphia, or the fubferiber in Burlington.
THOMSON NEALE.
Burlington, march r. *er>Hiw '
TO LET,
And poflefiion given th« ill April next,
TheHoufeNo. 258 High-street,
At present o aupied by P. Bstler, Esq.
Applyto
Edward Shoemaker,
No. 117, High Areet.
February 14 eod3w
OVAL BOTTLES" "~
Quart and halfgallon in crates —and a qua»ti r ;
ty of Claret Bottles of a right size—Far sale at
No. 13, Church Alley. JOHN DORSEY.
January ia 3taw6w.
X 0 Let, "~
AJieut 30 acres of ground, with a good house,
garden, (tables, &c. about 4 1-2 miles from town.
Immediate polfeffion mav be had.
PETER BLIGHT.
February %J §iot
For Sale,
The Indenture of a healthy, firong, and aSive
NEGRO GIRL,
Who has nearly fourteen yeart to fcrve.—En
quire at No. 11 i, Market Street.
February 17 §3t
JUSTARRirED,
In the Ship Star, Joseph Woodman, mailer, froqi
London,
50 crates Queens' Ware, aflort
ed to suit Wcff India market
40 hoglheads Whiting
150 a bulhels good House Coalt
ALSO—JUST L4NOED,
470 barrels prime Beef, Boilon and New-York
50 barrels Pork
hhds. Havasna Molalfet
Woolen Cloths")
Blanket* > aflorted in packages
Hard Ware J
Ravens Duck
Window Glass in boxes, Bri.i-S, of various f;z!s
Black quart Bottles, in hampers of I groce each
A general aflortaieHt of Querns' Ware, in crates
fovvliilg Piecesar.d Pistols, in cases
Baflccc fine Salt, in hpglheads
FOX SALE BT
Thos. C5 3 John Ketland.
February 15 ftiM
Just Published,
And to he had at the Book-stores of MelTrs. Dob
son, Campbell, Young and Okmkod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caules and Cure of Remitting or Bilious
Fevers.
To which is annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the op ; nions and praflice of
different authors! and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting intcrefl ing fa&s and reflcflien* relative to
the Synothut IBetoidte, or V ellow Fever, which
ha- occafi:>ned so much distress and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the seaport
towns of the United States of America. \
bv WILLIAM CURRIE.
Felow of the Philadelphia Collfge of thyficians,
and Member of the American Philolophical So
ci«ty.' Feb. t —*.;m§
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the ioth
inrt. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven J Milan, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-flreet—
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollari, where check books arc kept lor register
ing and examining in these, the City ot Walhing
ton, No 11.and Pattsrfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in most of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the itates of the
Union.
N.B. The bulinefsof a Broker, inbuyingaod
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcoßnting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houlei, &c. &c. will be duly attended to,
by WM. BLACKBURN.
November 15. §
House and Lots, in Bordentown.
TO BE SOLD, a two story House,
with the Lot on which i' is erefted, situat
ed about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
Village of Bordentown. The house is forty
two feet in front, and in neat order. The lot
contains one acre, and is one hundred feet on
the main street, and extends with the fame
breadth to back flreet. Also, a large Lot, con
taining nearly four acres, fepirated from the
former by back street. One third only of the
purchase money will be required upon execut
ing a deed, and for the remainder, such credit
Will be given as the purchaser may chufe. This
property will be fold free of all incumbrances,
and an indisputable title given.
For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnes, residing in Bordentown, near
the prtroifes, who will (hew the f.ime, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, No. Z44, Market-ftrect.
December«. jawtf
Landing
From onboard the Snow Maria, from Copen
hagen ,
A few Tons Rulfia Clean Hemp
3<x> pieces Kavrns Duik
250 pieces Kuili: Sheeting
200 holts Ruflia Duck, and
A qumtity of 1 wedes Iron
for Pale by
JOSEPH ANTHONY tsT Cos
IV bo Lavt on HanJ t
ift and til proof Bourdeaux Brardy
4th proof Spanith ditto
New England Rum
London Particular Win# m Pipe.
London Market 5 Ca& '-
Old Claret in Cats
14 hhds. Coffee just arrived
Bt ft Bcfton Beef in barrel!
Mackrell in do.
Halifax Salmon in do.
A small invoice of Rhode jfland Cheese
Spetiaaciti Oil
Tanners ditto
No. 1, 2,3, Boston Sail Duck
Kuflia Cordage, and
An Invoice of Dutch Hollow Glass Ware.
March I. d«w
The Commsffioiu rs
FOR carrying into effeift th- TWENTY-FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Limits, and
Navigation, between His Catholic \fajtfty and the
United States of America, hereby give iniorsnatioo
to all Persons therein concerned —I'hat in <»rder
to terminate all differences, on account of theloiT*
ea sustained by the citizens of the United States, in
coniequcnce of their Yeiieis nd Cargoes having
been taken by the Subjects of His Ca holicMajef
ty, during the late war between Spain and France,
tfaat they are ready to receive (at their Office, be*
tween the hours of ten and one o'clock, daily) all
complaints and applications, authorized by the said
Article, during eight een months, from the day
•f the date hereof, and that they have power to
examine allfuch persons as c«me before them, on
oath or affirmation, touching the complaints in
question, and also to receive in evidence, all writ*
ten testimony, authenticated in such manner 99
they (hall think proper to require or admit.
By Order of the Commifjtonersy
PETER LOHRA, Secretary.
Cvmmi(Timers Office. No. 100, Mulberry-
Jlrect, May 17th, 1797.
Feb. £6, '98 —$im
* Tbofe Printers in the several States who publijh*
id the above advertisement lafl Springy are requeued to
re~publjb it one month, andfend their as counts to J*. 2*,
A Gardener wanted,
TO move to the Diflrifl of Columbia, one who
underQands his biiCnefs well, to whom generous
encouragement will be given. Application rrtlft
be made immediately, at No, 5, South Fourth*
street, to CEOSGE WALKER.
Feb. %i. »3t
Thru or four Single Gentlemen,
may be accommodated with
Genteel Boarding and Lodging,
On reasonable terms, by applying at No. 31,
North-llrcet, between Fifth aml Sixth-streets.
February 23. eod?t
FOR SALE, :
By the subscribers, No. 2i, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Con/ijiing of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Ctflaes Punjum Cloths
Sanaht Guzzey do.
Huml'.uraj Charconna Dorea
Blue CI. th Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Multnuls
Mamoodys Checks
Maharagonges Patna Hkfs.
Ginghams M><linu de.
Guzzenas Bandarvnoes
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcoe. Choppa Komala
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Persians of various col.
Pulicats _
\ »oo tons SUGAR
je.coolb PEPFEK.
Willings & Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
commodious store the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-streets.
Also—A few Bales of Madrafs Hkfs. of ele*
gant patterns and best colours.
February 8. dtf
FOR SALE,
By WHARTON & LEWIS,
No 115 South Front Strec%
A quantity of Tanner's Oil,
4th proof Jamaica Rum, "> entitled to
ift and 2dproef Brandy, J drawback.
Madeira Wine,
Juniper Berries, &c. &t.
Feb. 9. eodtf
St. Croix Sugars.
16 hogsheads best ST. CKOIX SUGAR,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN NIXON & Co.
Feb. 9. fm&wtf
Wanted,
An a(sl ire, cleanly, industrious woman to cook
Ad do the business of the kitchrn. Such a one
ill be allowed good wajre*, and do other needap
ay —Enquire of the Printer.
SALES BY AUCTION,
Stated Sales
For DRT .GOO OS.
Forenoon —Edward Fax, No. ,6,
jyr j J south Front-street,
on Afternoon—Footman \ Co. No. 65
C South Front-street.
r Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
r 1 Au&ion, No 73 south l ; r®nt-ftreet.
' t *'* ) Aftenwon—William Shannon, N»,
183 High-street.
1J Afternoon—Peter denfon, No. 74
WtAnfUj | s outh Thirt-flrcet. '*
f , S Forenoon—£owird Fox.
r J J \ Afternoon —John C»nutlly.
„ } Forenoon— William Shannon,
r> ) Connelly,
Satitri!*jAh*rao9H—Peter Benivn.
[Volume XIII.Xije tSajcttt. p
'PHILADELPHIA, f«;
i. cril
SATURDAY EVENING, Makch 3. all
fiel
Ml. funno, vei
As some of the fpeerfcn i* Cnngref# may he ei
ther sung or said, the following one l.eing a
little in the p»e;ical flrain, 1 {houM be glad
that some ingenions composer would set it
to mufie. Dt
Mr H * arose »rm*d wiih the confti'u'ion,
Wi h li cUftore, Beccaria and other glut wriiera,
OI Biiuin he spoke much anri rheir revolution ; a P
And fwo'e Sidney and Hamdeo wcic only prue vai
sigh ers ; vai
With hnnett Dalrytnple hecleailv concurs rpj
That pairioia art nothing bui bahbluig enri.
Hit speech like the willow tree weeping in branches. .
lUpliirea ihefall'o ftaie of his e un[r)'sToi:s ;
Into theories finefpun he cree;>in(;lv launches, So
Ai d t< lis us 'it rju- httis and huge tlooiy tones.
He draus dteadlulmontters a htiid wall,
Thei. biUcrs his knuckles in fightini; them all. .^,
He darts with 1 probity boi h novel and curious,
And ouem old Blaekltone to prove bis position,
Thatpo/itwivotesaie f«re»e' injurioM, ftr
Tha' r.tgtlivis only car save from perdition) qy
/rd b : hrm alone he w:i '■ venule te fay.
ja.f-TTXot'i. j-l~dci'd lr»m tunning away.
He ii.k'd mu h ol ft-ppin« the government wheels.
And f.id ih-i be meaft't ihe E»ecu lve power, tn
Tha. trehoule ou. bt to h.o* like a clog to ita heels, Pi
l\„ e laws executed the people devour; m
That ;n» executed willtlearly enslave u«,
/ nil vtrtvoui minorities only can save us.
He said that,that t> »nrh wh ch were payers & debtors 1
Wtfc judges mi ft romp* cn , hat wano pay,
TnaL reee \rrs wete ceriainlv tyrant's abators ftl
Tnr tools of coi rupnon anil despotic sway', jj (
Thrf- patronage ie-i t.er'd the hxecutivc wiogs,. -
And gave it the power of roilchiet, like Kings.
Hi; rnundlv a(T 'ted. the corpsdiplomatie
Was matia eit <0 .il'ully fincc it begun,
That jo 01111 would in 0 form lyfleinatic, bi
Ann 1 none Could Hop or fay whe/e it vyould run. m
Tha' fimc 'twas liei.icii a> .hi p wer to carve ihem,
As «<held the purlelli airly mightftarve them^
for 1 ho' we rouil grant it, that being a 11a ion,
As lutb we have int'rtßs to manage broad, ni
To pay lut.li vile fpiea there it noob i^tion,
Ana tntrtlore ''is elear nouecan c. argeus withfiaud.
Th's duty like tha of explod'd allegiance,.
May clearjy beconllrued away by expttiiti.ee.
To Cuece and old Rome h'e then led us a d ince,
And eld mother Biuainheca) d an 0.0 bawd,
He said ail republics except fiftct tian.e,
We e lent o fid nick t>y tonnp.un a d fr ud.
Ttat Kings are ufurp-rs molt plainly p
And l*rc-lietit .».d—m is one ol fmr )e*ry
That hoars were iymis Lake all the wot id round,
Then .re it heliov'd 11 (ueh iclmw. '.o level,
He quo ed Bect»ria to rove this truth outid,
/>rd v tfh'd fenaing t Huns w«'t all at tne devil.
■TvMfce herjeoioidGtetce, lp air.iymulliell ye, ■
Be.< » e of the mifchiejs that lutk in nu belly !
He after ted what rant I believe will deny,
When a p?trit.t r eel- mer has got a good place,
The dei»'»s jue ee,fes the liberty cry, n
for ih<-jjhes and loaves have now altered the cafe. a
Ht si s him elf down and is tacitly quiet, .. t|
1 he It tend o> cood order', the lot ol all riot.
a
Of v esKV hmorand pow. rfo potent the third i:,
TUat frtedtiit) has always been factifictd thete,}
And rt-.i t vouittr fchentc of political justice, g
Islikely in prove tnt a bubble of air. t
The e piemifts gidntcd pray what tkihk you of it ; j
It not my Irier.d NichcUs a vory great prophet ? .
1 lien for his amendment let's vote altogether,
■The American eagle too loftily foa s,
\\ C'll ne'er quit his wingi 'till We've pluckt every V
fcatbtr, V
And m»n'"d hi* vileofficrs all owt of doors. c
41 J)?nrin money 'tis traCh, who wcu*d quarrel for
riehe«, M f
Rouc.d our liberty poles, let ut dance without brecchei. t
■ \
Died, at Charleston, (S. C.) of aeon- 1
(nmption, after a tedious confinement, Tho- t
mas Lee SmrPEN, only son of Doe- (
- tor William Sbippen, junior of this city. t
The pra&ice of indiscriminately lavifning <
ehara&eron individuals of doubtful metit, I
at their deceafe,tends to dimitiffh the interest ]
and abate the benefit which a just tribute to 1
the memory of departed worth is calculated j
to create. But in the affe&ing inflatice of ;
this young gentleman, the sympathy of pri
vate friendfhip would prompt the attempt,
even if the public utility of doing jullice to j
figt al merit did not fanAion this last melan
t choly tiflice.
Mr. Thomas Lee Shippen, from child
hood, was eminently dillinguifhed fordoci- 1
Jl»y of dilpofition, actitenefs of discernment,
and graceful ■manners. His early proficien
ts kept thi promise that such faculties gave.
At a time of life when many individuals of
his own age weie, perhaps unblrmeably,
ignorant, or innocently puerile, Mr. Ship
pen was matter of four or five languages
acquainted with the clafiics and modern bis
tory —familiar withfeveral subordinate bran
ches of science - and could fu'.laif, in the
best societies, the situation »f an intelligent
scholar, and the rank of an unaffected gen
tleman.
Yet these acquirements were eclipfsd by
the best propensities of the human li^art—
benevolence, lenity, tenderness, a nicefjnfe
of honour, and a delicate regard to duty.
Those acquirements adorned; but these qua- j
lities endeared him. No wonder he became :
the favorite nt.d leader of his companions j
.the pride and boast of his parents. No I
wonder those whose delight and ornament I
he was, all those with whom be was most I
intimate, deplore their irreparable loss, and !
refufe to be comforted.
Mr. Shippen having concluded his eourfe
of pupilage, together with the studies that
afterwards qualified him for of
the law, was permitted to vilit England.—
There, in attendance on the Court of Weft-1
minster Hall, and by an advantageous refi- j
dence at Oxford, he compleated abroad .
whatever had been left urfinifhtd at home. I
Mr. Shippen then Tifitedmany of the chief ■
•itics of Europe, indulging a liberal curi
osity, yet lefifliitg the allurements of difli- j
pation. This pursuit gave him opportunity j
to examine the laws, custom*, and forms of j
government of several great nations ; and by
eomparifon of their effeifts on the people,
to confirm that judicious preference which
Mr. Shippen ever afterwards cberifhed for
republican institutions.
At length be joyfully returned to the bo
som of his famil* in Philadelphia. He came
in the morning of manhood, embcllilhed by
pleftfing talents—adorned by polifticd man
gers—-improved by sol d attainments. High
health, a commanding form, the graces of
periuaiion, doroettic biifs, the fmilcs #f so-
cicty, a heart animated.by. private virtues,
a mipd replete with- patriotic ardour, now ope
concuired to advance His prefect felicity, tba
and afford him most brilliant profpe&s in the coi
future paths of glory. But in this very con
crisis of growing joy and rich hope, with the
all these blulhing bounties thick upon him, it v
sickness approached—it smote him, and e- ere
* ery blossom faded— a f
" Bit by an envious wwm, go
" Ere he could fptead kit sweet wing* to the
the air t j, e
" Or dedicate hii spirit to the Sun."
During three years, every remedy that (kill
and experience could suggest, or tenderness
apply, was refortcd to for his succour. But
vain were the efforts ef medical fcience—
vain the solicitude of vigilant affe&ion.—
The malady, though flow in its progrtfs,
was fatally sure. Mr. Shippcn perceived
his destiny, and met it with fortitude.—
Social chearfulnefs, and the full powers of
hii understanding never forfook him, except
in the paroxyifms of excefiive pain. Nay, t
inflead of drooping, subdued by the decline
of health, his foul seemed to gathjr new | .
strength from bodily infirmity. How fre- ■
quently did he charm and astonish the most j
enlightened of those who came to visit him
in confinement, by the sagacity, the vigor,
the ingenuity, theeloqtience of hisdifcourles. co
Pure in morals, irreproachable in duty, stre
nuous in opinion, untainted by folly, fted
fall in principle, exemplary in conduct, firm a
the grand do&rioes of Chriftiamty, he cob- t0
templated the approach of death with un- J? T
fuffled resignation, interrupted only by, an- 111
tieipations of thf keen sorrow that thrpfe ki
survivors now experience, by whom'he felt
himfelf extravagantly beloved.
The malady that was graduallyconfuming
bis body, by making meditation his amuse- tr
ment, doubtless contributed.,to enrich his
mind, exalt and enlarge it, till at last it
burst from its frail tenement, and he winged
his flight to the world of spirits.
Great souls. with ensrg.'tic. thought, P 1
Wear out their shell of clay ; ni
Yet at each crevice light is caught, w
Till all is perfefl day ! r ,
CONGRESS. J
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, t 1
_ , f;
FOREIGN INTERCORSE. C
_ t
TUESDAY FEBRUARY 27. f'
Mr. Havens oiiferved, thnt when this y
fubjeft was formerly under c«nfideration,' r
the grounds upon which the prefewt amend- c
ment had been fnpported were, the danger c
arising from an extension of our foreign in- I
tercourfe, from confederations of economy, '
and to prevent undue influence ; on the o- a
ther hand, it was opposed on conflitutional t
ground'; it was said that house had no right
to interfere in the btifinefs, as it was whol- 1
ly an executive concern. y
On all queftiotjs of this kind, Mr. H. •
said, the eonftitution of the United States '
was constantly brought into view ; upon '
which different opinions were now entertain- I
ed from what were entertained at the time '
ps its adoption. He always understood that 4
. this government was intended not only to
have all the advantages of a republican go- j
- vernmcnt, but being eleftive, all the advati- f
- tages which arise from a proper diflributiou '
- of power. This principle of a distribution <
of power was derived from the government '
I of Great-Britain, as it wa3 theoretically de'- '
i fcriTjed by Blacklloue, not from what it is in. '
1 practice. His description of tUat govern ">
a ment (which he read) (hewed that every de
-1 partment of it was a cheek upon the other,
if De Lolme, though a panegyrist of the
- British government, agreed in the fame a- 1
:, pinion ; for though hedefcribes the kingly
0 power as raising armies and equipping fleets,
- yet he allows it to be checked by the peo
ple. Here, the doflrine maintained was,
I- that the President of the United States can
i- appoint to office, and that that house had
t, no right to refufe an appropriation, which
i- was wholly subversive of what he understood
:. to be the original principles of the govern
>f ment. Mr. H. said he did not contend for
r, any power in the house of representatives,
J- which did not equally apply to the senate ;
- and if this dodlrine was not allowed, there
f would not be the least check upon the Pre
i- fident by the senate oi the house of reptc
e fentatives, as the concurrent power of the
it senate with the executive only went to the
l- ehoiceof men in the appointments to office.
The President has a right to appoint as raa
iy ny amhaffadors as he pleases, without check
- or control. This power in the President
fe and senate could compel that house to raise
y. any sum of money whatever. They might
a- | make a treaty granting a subsidy to a fo
ne ' reign nation, and that house would be bound
ns jto pay it. They might aifo borrow money,
lo I and might bring the house into such a-(Hu
nt j ation as to oblige it to declare war, to raise
>ft I armies, support a navy, &c. contrary to
ad ! their conviftion of right. But when the
| house makes an approprffttion of money,
"fe the President has the power to put his vote i
at upon it ; and if he can do this, how is it
of; that the two houses cannot exercise their dis
cretion in appropriating for ambaf&dors or
;ft- for treaties ? Whenever an appropriation of
si- money is called for, they ought certainly to
ad . consider for what putpofe it is wanted, and
ie. I whether some mor>* important objeft does i
iff not require previous attention. It was said
ri- the house were as much bound to appro
[ft- ' priate for the falai y of ambassadors as for
ity the salary of the President or judges,
of j When gentlemen reasoned thu-, they ap
by peared to consider the diplomatic corps as a
ile, part of the government ; whereas the guv
ich ernment could go on very well without them,
for And even, with refpeft to the officets of
government', if the money was wanted for
bo- more important fcrvices, such as for the im
me mediate defence of thecountiy, they mud
by go unpaid for a time. He, therefore, con
an- eluded that each branch of government,
igh viz. the Prelidenl, senate and house of re
-los prefentatives, had rack a discretion in die
so-: appropriation of money.
Therc Wfs arother coi;fideration which £0
operated ujion his mit;iJ, to convince h:m by
that this was the only conftru&ion whicji wi
could be put upon th e constitution. A re!
considerable degree of difevction was left to pc
the Pn-fident in the execution of laws, and of
it was always in his power to abuse that dif- let
cretion, by beginning a mcafure upon such fei
a scale of er.pence as to oblige congress to ic
go farther than they intended, and except th
the two hoirfes had the power of exerctfing
their sifcrction in checking any such abuse, ot
there was no way of preventing it. There ve
was a singular exemplification of this facl, w
he said, in the Englifti government, in the an
miniftcr's having expended vast lums of mo- w
ney, without the consent of j fit
He mentioned ftveral it:.lances, the two w
last of which were din ing the war with this nt
country, and in the year 17.96. In the for- p<
mer mftance, lie dated that the minister ex- e "
pended 38 millions with the confcnt of Par- ec
liament, and 28 without it ; and in the lat- rs
ter, 50 millions with the consent of Parlia- ei
ment, and 49 witho'jt it. And except the q
legislature had a right to refufe to appropri- v
ate in such cases, there was no way of pre- Ic
j venting abuses.
He believed the house would recolle£l a ;
conduit in feme degree similar to this in our
government. He alluded to the business
of the frigates; since they were begun npon
a plan which obliged the house to consent
to much larger appropriations than they at
firft intended. If it weie neeeflary, other
instances might also be adduced of the fame ,
kind. c
Gentlemen who supported this extraor- ,
dinary power in the Executive, argue in
the fame way with the supporters of «he ex
travagant executive power of Charles I. in 1
the cafe of Mr. Hampden, with refpeft to
ship money. It was at that time asserted, '
that" the King, having a right to declare war, I
had a light to demand the service of any man's
perfo*, and consequently to demand his mo- j.
nev. But this doftrine was now every
where ackriowledged to be the molt arbitra- .
r y- . . a
He thought the British government affor
ded another lesson of inftruiftion. After
their revolution in 1688, it was well known
that the government adopted the funding
system. When this took place the house of
Commons ceased to have any control over
the expenditure of public money.' In con- £
sequence, the public del)t had increased be
; yond what could be conceived. Mr. H.
read Sir John Sinclair's account of this in-
. crease, and observed that the present amount
r of that debt, exclusive of the last loan of the
. Emperor, is 410 millions. If the house of
t Commotl* had had a proper check upon the
. administration, theri would probably have
1 been no debt at all.
t Government might be considered as f«rm
. ing two diSinftions, viz. payers and recei- ,
vers of money; and it was the perfedtion of
all the state governments in this country, ,
3 that both had a right to judge of the expe- |
n diency of the expenditure of money, and
. particularly the payers. If this check did
e not exiit, no government would long con
t tinue.
3 ' Much had been said about supporting
government. Some gentlemaw called *hem
. selves supporters of Government, and others
u they termed Dejlroycrs of Government, D'if
n organizers, See When gentlemeD fpdke of
t Jupporters of government, .they meant, he
believed, supporters of the Executive branch
D, of Government; so ti at a perfou acquiescing
i. "in every measure of the Executive was a
.. supporter of Government ; whilst tliofa
r< wliD disapproved of any Executive measure
,e were destroyers of Government. This
doftrine alone was fufficient to destroy the
y idea of the government's consisting of feve
-5f ral branches, and to blend all the powers
j. of the Government in the Executive. In
s> this cafe, the goverament of this country
n could not long remaip a free Republic, but
d would become an Eleitive Monarchy, and
h the whole power of the Government would
l( J be in one man's hands. He conld not con
j. ceive that the people of the United States
, r could think this a proper ground upon
S) which this government ought to reft.—lt
; was felf-evident to him that our govern
•e ment ought to consist of three branches,
e _ the President, the Senate, and the House of
c _ Representatives, and when that House has
ie determined not to do a thing, the Govern
ie ment has determined not to do it, and so of
e . the other branches,
a _ The fame observation would apply t« a
phrase which they had frequently heard, and
n t which had been introduced in- the course of
f e this debate, by a gentltman from Connefti
ht cut, of flopping the wheels of government.—
o- To put a itop to any executive measure was
to flop the wheels of government; and to
y ; keep them properly running was to offer no
i,. control over whatever the President recom
;fe mended. If this was not the meaning of the
to phrase, he should be glad to know what it
he was. For his part, he believed the perfec
tion of government, cqrififted in what these
>te 1 gentlemen called flapping the wheels, and
it when that H6ufe, or the Senate, determin
|f. Ed they would not gu into that expence,
or ! they speak the voice of -the people,
of It h»l been remarked that the house had
to the physical power to refufe a grant of mo
n<J ney when called upon by the President; but
ies : that members were under a moral obligation
lid 'to grant it. This was faying we can do a
ro - thing but we-ought not to do it. He be
for lieved it was proper for members to do what
es. ever they conceived was for the public good,
ip. When the fubjeft of Patronage was firft
lS a mentioned by the Hoover of this amendment
uV . he was persuaded he only mtant to introduce
■ m . the fubjedt on general ground. The idea,
of as he understood him, was, that all nations
for and locieties were liable to depart from o'ri
im- ginal principles,to corrupt their governments
iuil and in the end to fubvtrt them ; that,
on- in this country we were fubjett to an impro
:nt, percomietlionof-the-difFerttit departments,
re- That it was necefTary to guard against this,
the if an appearance of such a connection should
at any time appear. Ke thought this was
so obvious, that it would be acknowledged t,r
by every one, that we were equally liable *'
with other nations to this corruption. With
refpe£t ta what had been said refpe&ing ap • j,,,
pointments to office being confined to men n e
of particular sentiments, it had been acknow- i Fa
ledged by some gentlemen to have been ob- tif
served in the choice ef men in the Diplomac- J V'
ic corps; but others had acknswledged that .
the regulation Was a general «ne. c 0
Was it not evident, Mr. H. asked, that in an
other countries, original principles of go- no
veromrnt were departed from? That there tit
was an inccflant desire after wealth, honour P r
and power ? He never heard of a monarchy
which did not suppose itfelf und'i the nectf-
fity of creating a fort of government party,
who had the difpufal of large sums oi mo- \\
ney, wliich they could diftribnte amongst th
perfonswho were subservient to their purpos
es. He believed thi«difpofition had prevail- f"
ed in all ages of the world, and which had
ravaged the earth. It must be evident to y
every one that peace, independence and e- V]
quality, mud constitute the happiness of e
very country; but it was notorious that the ta
leading men in molt countries had been op- a '
posed to these, for their own ends. Becca
ria, he said, in his efTay on cfimes and pu-
nifhments, had laid it down as a certain prin- q
ciple, that there were in every society such p ,
a class of men. In England, perhaps, this th
was more evident than in any other nation, 'a
A set of mfcn appeared early in that coun- r '
try to render the executive power a govern- *
ment of despotism. The do&rines of pas
sive obedience and the divine right of kings, al
continued to be aflerted fer one whole reign. »
After the revolution, the funding system wa» fe
set on foot, which bound men to the exec- P
utive by interest; in fafl persons were hired h
' to support a certain system of measures. It
, must appear evident that the great cause of
. keeping that country continually engaged in n
war, had been the host of placemen and pen- tl
fioners contained in the two heufes of Par- t<
liament, who were always inclined to support
measures in which they found the greatest 1
interest. The treasury msft be considered t
as the head of the body politie ; and what
ever party got into power they pursued the fc
fame course—a course which had now bro't ' t
that nation to the verge of bankruptcy and ; >
ruin. j J,
If this was the constant course in other (
couniriesjwas not this country, he asked, e- j
qually liable to the fame evils ? He believed t
it was. He .did not fay that the evil had r
gone far; but he thought it was proper that c
we (hould be on our guard against any doc- '
trine which may have a tendency to make '
one branch of government dependent on the 1
others,. t
This spirit of grasping at wealth and pow- t
er had been so great, that it had even at- t
tached itfelf to religious opinions.—When 1
the christian religion was firft preached, it '
: was of a democratic spirit; afterwards it be- j
came ariftocnftic, and then monarchic ,
1 When, therefore, this lust after power had j
been so general, it could not be said that
j this country was not liable to the fame vices |
and errors. < : -
This consideration was also worthy of at
tention. Men of the best private character
' had been supporters of these corrupt systems.
It seemed, therefore, as if there {hould be
' line of diftinetion between private character
~ and political conduft. Though a man may
pofTcfs the greatest private integrity, he may
still fuppcrt such principles as aiay lead to,
arbitrary power. There could be no doubt
» thattliofcperfons maintained the divine right
of kings were many of them men of the
4 greateil integrity; but their do£trines were
c not the less mischievous cn that account.
s In the fame way it might be reasoned with
e refpett to the United State's. Men may be j
' induced to support opinions which have a
tendency to subvert the government,by plac
" ing all power in the hands of the executive
and make the' governmenr a fort of four
* years monarchy. Yet these me,n may be
j men of the greatest integrity, and even pa
triotic, according to their views of patriot
ism; but if others believe their opinions
s have this tendency, it is their duty so to re
n present them to the people of the United
r " States, leaving them to decide the point.
" Mr. H. concluded by observing, he had
'j. heard no reason suggested for a minister at
Berlin; nor could he fee any use for one at
lS the Hague. He was of opinion Vienna !
"j. would be a more fit place for the residence >
of a minister than Berlin. We have.no com
merce with this coantry; and if" we had a- j
* ny wish to intermeddle in the fubjedt of the !
j. balance of power in Europe, we might as
well fend embassies to the Emperor of Ger
many and Ruflia. But he believed we had
~ no business with this balance of power. He
( s thought it was poflible so to manage our af
° fairs as to have nothing to do with any of
° them. Nor did he think we had any thing
to fear, on the fubjedt of invalion: if there
was any danger it must be from England, by
way of Canada. Besides, if we were to
have any fcrious difference with France, he
knew of no use our ambassadors could be of.
1 It might, perhaps, be neeeflary to have am
bassadors at .London, Pan's, and perhaps
e ' Spain and Portugal; if others were neeeffa
j ry at any time, special agent 3 co»ld be sent.
He hoped, therefore, the amendment would
„t be agreed to, as he thought it was a proper
time to make a retrenchment in the expenc
es of this department of government; and
however small the laving might seem, it was I
~ of consequence to make every saving pofli
j ble, which he wished to be applied to the
diicharge of our public debt.
( Debate to le tontinued.)
frisay, march ».
a ' Mr. D. Fnficr, from the committee of claims,
ns made an unfavourable repoit on the petition of
ri- Henry Heely, a waggoner during the war, pray
)ts Hig 'or a pension and pay, which was concur
lt> red in.
Mr. Livisgfton, from the committee of com
merce and manufadhires, made a report on .the
. ' petition of Gazzam, Taylor and Jones, of this
city. The committee ftite, tliat th« petitioners
»d in ths winter of 1796, loaded the fcli»oner Ea
ras gle from this port '.e St. Tltumaa's with a quan-
tity of gto.U, which h*tJ been impart- ', »n4
were entit!edto drawback, as entry of which hav
ir.g been ''u!y made at the cuftom-houi'e; hut
that the fold fenooner received fomuch damage
by the ice in the river Delaware, that it became
necrffary t < refhip the cargo, on board the brig
Fame which carried the goods to St. Croix, cer
tificates of the due landing of which had been
produced at the cuttom-houfc, but on aCcsunt
of the re-(hipment, the colleflor did not feel
himfelf at liberty to allow the dawback. The
committee state it aj their opinion, that thi» wa»
an accident of which the United States ought
not to avail themfelvet, and report that the pe
titioners ought to be relieved, according to the
prayer of their petition, and that a bill be brought
in accordingly. The report wa» concurred m
by the house.
Mr. Gillcfpie prefrnted an aft of the state of
North-Carolina,-appointing an health-officer at
Wilmington in that state. Ordered to lie on
tiie table.
A rntGage was received from the Senate, in
forming the house that they had agreed upon a
Writ of Summons to be iflued for the appeac
■anceof William Blount, late a Senator »f the
United States, before the Senate on the third
Monday in December next.
Mr. Sitgreaves believed it would be proper to
take feme step In this business in order to get an
alteration of the day mentioned in the writ.—
It must be known, he laid, that the day
of the return'of the fummoiis could not be
the day of trial- Previous to the trial, Mr.
Blount must be called up«n to answer to the im
peachment, and a day could not be afligned for
the trial before the iffise was joined. The dis
tance betwixt the two periods reuft be confide
"•able, becaafe until a day was,appointed for tri-
fubpeenas ceuld not be issued f< r the atten
dance of witntlTes who lay at a great distance.
The next session must of course be a (hortone,
as the powers of the house expired on the jd
#f Mareh, and would fearcely allow time for
serving the procefa upon the witness, and to
procure their attendance. It would thersfore,
be defireable that Mr. Blount fliould be required
to appear before the Senate during the present
session. He did not know how the demand
from this house ought to be made for thtappoinU
ment of aa earlier day in the summons j but he
thought it would be well to commit themefiage
to a feledl committee, which committee, if "the
house thought proper, might be the manager* of
the impeachment.
Mr. D. Follcr hoped this couple would b« >
taken.
Mr. Nicholas had no objeflion tathe mtflige
being referred to the managers ; bat he wifiied
1 to enlarge the inftruilion to the committee be
yond a mere reference. He doubted whether
it would not be proper that some permanent law
; fliould bepafied for regulating this business. If
the court which was to try the impeachment
had the power of fixing all the rules of trial,
the business might be so much retarded as to
ren- er the prefecution uftlefs. He Wished the
committee therefore, to be inftrufled, to report
the propriety of palling a law for regulating the
manner of proceeding in the trial of impeach
ments.
Mr. Sitgreaves had no ebjeflion to regulating
the proceeding by law. He thought it impor
• tant that thjs (houhl be the cafe. But whether
the delay which would be occsfioned by
! preparing the details of a bill of this kind tvould
not too much protra<S the business, he submitted
to the house. Besides, he believed there was a
bill before the Senate for this parpofe, which of
course, they might expedl to have before them
' ia the course of the session.
Mr. Nicholas thought it wotild be wrong tt>
i procecdin the business without a law.
Mr. Sit;;reaves consented to the inftruiSion
being added, and the reference was made ac
cordingly.
1 The house then again resolved itfelf into a
■ committee of the whole on tile bill providing th«
? means of foreign intercourse w.th > fort'gn na
r tions j when MefTrs Otis and Harper, fp»ke at
, great length against the amendment ot Sir. Ni-
cholas. At the conclusion of Mr Harper'*
fpeech, the question was called for ; button mo
tion to rife and ask leave to fit again, it wa*
' carried-by 50 members rising.
' The house adjourned at four o'clock till
e Monday,
s 1
1 1 CONTINUATION OF
e | Latest Foreign News,
By the brig Mai*y , captain Earli, from Dover.
f • LONDON, Jan. 3.
STATE PAPER.
BASIS or the PEACE,
s To be concluded at Raftadt, containing the
chief articles of peace agreed upon at
Campo Formic, which are to be ratified
, at Rarftadt, by the congress allembled
there.
Article I.
1 All the ecclesiastic dates in Germany, ef
a pecially those having possessions on the left
e borders of the Rhine, shall be secularized
" ; for the benefit of the ele£tors.
" | 11. As much as is possible, the raoft im
c portant dates (hall receive natural frontiers,
IS 1 r 1 <
to be ftxed upon.
r j 111. The king of England loses all his
possessions in Germany, and, with his elec
p torate also, hi* influence iu the German
empire.
Dejlgn and Means for the Execution
S I. France takes the Rhine as the natural
frontier. All the country between Germer-
fheim and Rhinebergcn shall be incorporat
ed to the republic, together with the forti
fications of Ehrenbreitftein and Gaffel. The
French to ereft tetes-ponts opposite Hunin
gen, Stralhurg and Cologne ; that near
Manheim to be razed. The navigation on
the Rhine to be free for the French and
Germans, and none of both nations shall
be allowed to eflablilh tolls or imposts.
11. Holland receives that p«rt of Ger
id man y on l^e Rhine border, which lies
north of Venlo, Guelders and Rhinebergen,
* s viz. a .small part of the electorate of Co*
logne, the Prussian (liare of Guelders, and
l<: that part of the duchy of Cleve situated on
the left Rhine border ; here the river Em*
makes the frontier of Holland, viz. from it*
fourcc to the city Rhine, where it become*
is, " avi g a ble. From Rhine to Haltern, where
of 'he Seva and Lippe unite, shall be drawn a
iy. straight line, and every thing situated on
jr- this lide of the line, and on the right bor
der of the Lippe, (hall also be joined to
Holland, inclusive of the city of Wefel, viz.
his P art East Friefland.
trs 2 * conliderable part of the Bishopric of
r a - Muufter.with the towns Sacksfeld, Horft
in- man and Haltern.j. The MiVrqnifate Besthsim and Schwsin- c. Tf
ftirth. ail£
4. That J lart of the Duchy of C'.evc on the 4.
right I. (orders of the Lippe. "lie navi- receiv
gation of this and the river Ems to be VI
free fa r Germany and Holland, and no I. Tl
impefte or tolls are to be eftzblifhed. 2. A
J 11. 'SThchonfeof Austria renounces, in wic
favor of I,ii. PrulF.an majesty, its peffufiions by
in Pol>!i tl and Silesia, or. the left border of 3* T
the Weithfel or Vitlula.- 111 favor of the VI
eleilor <if Bavaria, of the dukp of Wirt- for h
emberg. t and the Margrave of Baden, the and tl
whole Auflrian'Suabia. and that part of 1. T
Tyro! fjtuate on the left border of the Jnn, bin
for \yhi ch it is to receive, 2. T
I. That p2rt of the Bavarian circuit on the La
right fide of the Inn, containing part of 3, A
the Duchy of Bavaria, the archbifho :4. T
pric Salfburg, and the provoltfhip Bersh- Ze
tqlfyad. thi
I. That part of Bavaria and Upper Palati- 13 1
natron the left fide of the Rab: also that pofiV
part of the Metropolitan bishopric of Ems ;
Paffau, to the left of the Donau, and to also 1
the right of the Inn. turn,
3. The-fmall part of the Msrquifate Bay- i I.
reuth, situated on the right of tht Eger. rtdit
From the fojirce «f the Rab a llrait line a. '1
to lie drawn to the fonrce of the Eger, 1 D
and all the country on this fide of the b. '1
line to be incorporated with the house of lei
Aluftria. t. T
IV. Piuffia renoluwces, in favor of France d. 'I
?nd Hi Hard, his pofleflions on the left of m
tVe Rhine, in the circles of Wtflphnlia and e.
Franconia, and that part of the Pomerauia fr
on the left to the Oder, «the lordships of /• I
X-ora arid Klettenherg, his pofTeflions in the lu
County Mansfield, part of the D'lthy of tl
Magotburg, kliown by the name of Saal in
• circle, for which he receives, w
t. That part of Poland and Silesia to the g■
left of the Vift'ila. el
Z. The whole Marqnifatc? Laufitz. 11
4. The pofTeflions of the king of England f<
, fintated to the left of the Elbe and the 2
right of the Wefer, which river is to form | prin
the boundaty to the Pruflian dominions j and
on the fcite of the circle of Wellphalia ; a. 1
' 'they contain nearly the electorate and al- a
nr>ft the whole county of Bremen and b. 1
Verden, the county Spiegelberg, and £
part of the county Hoya. e. 1
4. Tbc- imperial free towns of Bremen and e
Go.flan. 1
5. The dates of the Duke of Brunfwick 1
, Wolfenbuttle.
6. The Bishopric Hildefheim. tie
7. The pofleflions or territory of the city of tail
Hamburgh to the left of the Elbe. I.'
8. That part of the Abbey Corvey, and I
the county of Schaumburgh. 1
V. The Eleftor of Bavaria renounces
his pofleflions on the left of the Rhine, the 2.
Duchy of Bergen, the part of Bavaria in
tended for Austria (fee above) and receives
in return,
I. The Bishopric* Regenfcurg and Frey
fingen, and that part of the Bishopric 3.
Paffau situated on the left of the Inn.
j. That part of the Circle of Franconia on 4.
the left of the Mayn, via. the Bishopric
Eichftadt, great portions of the Bifliop
rics Bambcrs and Wutzburgh, the Mar- J.
quifate, Anfpach, and the free Imperial
cities Windfheim,Rothemburgh, Nuren
fcrrg, with their territories, and the pof- rei
fefiions of the Grand Mailer of the Ger- th
manic Order. th
3. Austrian Suabia (with exception of t.
Briefgau and the Country Hohenberg)
the Lordships of Vorxulberg, and the
part of the Tyrol on the left of the Inn 2.
4. The Bishoprics Conftanz and Aufburg,
with the Abbeys, Provollfhlps, »nd Im
perial free towns in the Circle of Suabia,
excepting those included in the States of
the Duke of Wirtemburgh and the Mar
grave of Baden.
5. That part of the Bishoprics of Worms 3,
and Speyer on the left of the Rhine, in
cluding Philipfbnrgh. 4
6. That part of the Elrdtorate of Mayence
on the left of the Mayn, with the excep
tion of some diflridls to be given to the
Landgrave of HefJV Darmstadt.
Part of the Lower Palatinate on the left
of the Rhine, excepting the city of Caub, tl
witfc its appendages, intended for the Land
grave of Heflen Rheinfels, together with a
all No. 5 and 6, in fpecified countries, (haH
be made over to the Duke of Deuxponts.as
tha probable heir to the Eltftor of Bavaria, b.
who renounces all his pofTeflions on the left
of the Rhine, in favour of France. c.
VI. The house of Heflia receives for its
pofleflions, on the left of the Rhine, the d
lordships Lichtenau and Wilftadt in Suabia,
ditto in the principality of Henneberg, in e.
IFranconiaj in the counties Schauburg and
Hoya, and Pyrmont in Wcftphalia, viz.
1. The landgrave of HefTe Caffel:
4. That part of the electorate of Mayence
inclosed fcy Heflia. viz. the bailiwicks
Amoneburg and Fritilar.
b. The bifliopricfcs Fulda and Paderborn. t
e. The duchy of Weflplalia appertaining to r
the eleftorate of Cologne. (
i. The electoral dignity.
2. Tha landgrave of HefTe Dramftadt; t
«. The (hare of the eleftorate of Mayence r
on the right of the Mayn'till towards I
Taub. >
h. The small part of the fame electorate on
the left of the Mayn, a little above As- 3
ehaffedberg, till towards Hanau, viz. the
bailiwicks, Steinkeim, Dieburg, and some
other distriCts to the north of the county
of Ehrbach, comprising, amongst others,
the towns Seligenftadt and Horfheim, to
gether with the bailiwick Gernfheira, sit
uated on the Rhine; but the the remain
ing part on the left Mayn borders will
be joined to the Palatinate,
feh c. The free Imperial cities of Frankfort on
■ the Mayn and Wetzlar, with its territo
ries.
3. The landgrave of HefTe Rheinfels-Ro
therUirg:
a. Those parts of the electorate of Mayence
situated on the Latin,
b. The pofTeflions of the eledlorateof Treves
or Tier, ta left of the Lahn.
c. The city of Tuub, with all its appurten- j. T
ances. fit
4. The landgrave of HefTe to 2. T
receive the free Imperial city of Fritzlar. M
VII. The duke of Wurtembtrg to haW:: Bi
1 I. The county of Hobenberg. TF
2. All the free Imperial towns and bi'li I.
wicks of the circle of Suabia furroundi-J ed b
i by ihe states of the duke. nine,
: 3- The elt-ftoral dignity. burr
VIII. The margraveof Baden to obtain, CaTe
■ for his poflVffions on the left of the Rhine Woll
: and those of the Brifgau : Naff;
F I. That part of the Bifhoprick of Straf- thori
, burg on the right borders of the Rhine. II
2. The lordfhipj Lichtenau, Willladt and at th
; Lahn. the t
f 3, All the Ortenau. pire,
•4. The Imperial free cities of Offenburg, the
Zclle, Gengenbach, with the abbies of terel
the sam- name. II
IX. The house of NafTau to renounce its only
t pofTeflions on the left bank of the Rhine the a. 1
f Ems, in favour of France and Holland, as rc
0 also the lordfhi/) Lohr—and obtains in rc- t>, 1
! turn, c. I
- 1 t. The prince of NafTau Dietz (late he- tc
•. reditary fladtholder) : , tl
e a. The duchy of Bergen, witn the city of d.
r, ' DufTeldorf. tr
e b. That part of the duchy of Cleve on the e . 1
if left of the Lippe. . 3
c. The abbies Essen and Verden. t<
:e d. The county of Reclilinghaufen, depend- I
>f ing on the electorate of Cologne. tl
,d e. The county of Mark, with the Imperial j. 1
ia free town of Dormurid. f
as f. That small part of the eleftoratt of Co- t
ie on the right bank of the Rhine to e
as the north weft of Nonnenwern, contain- | j
al ing, arpong others, the town of Konigf- 1 t
winttr. .2
ie g- The electoral dignity under the title of g.
eleilor of NafTau Bergen—where against i
this prince is to give up his present pof- j I
id fefiions to the other branches of his house. Ih.
he 2. The other branches of NafTau, viz.. the
m princes of NafTau Weibtrg, NafTau Ufingen, |
ns and Saarbruck, are to divide amongst them
a; a. The county Dietz, Ufingen, Dillenhurg ,
al- and Beilftein. i.
nd b. The Pruflian pofleflions in the county of
nd Sayn. 11.
e. That part of Treves and Cologne which I
nd extends 011 the right to the Rhine, from
the right of the Lahn, towards Nohnen- I
ck werden.
X. The duke of Brunfwick Wolfenbut- I Tl
tie gives up his dominions to Pruflia and ob- I
of tains in return,
1. The bifhoprick of Ofnabruck, and a con- I
nd fidtrable -part of that of Munfter, among |
others, the town of his own name I/.
ees (vide Holland.)
he 2. The greater part of the municipality of 1
in- Minden, and the county of Hoya, and a I
ves small part of the duchy of Bremen and I
Verden, viz. what is situated on the left I m.
ey- of the Wefer
>ric 3. The counties of Linger, Tecklenburgh I
Diepholz and Ravenfkerg.
on 4. Almost the whole municipality of Eafl I
>ric Friefland, extending on the left of the Ith
op- . Ems, (vide Holland.) I.s 1
[ar- J. The eleftoral dignity, under the title of j
rial tleftor of Westphalia. 1 j
■en- XI. The house of Schaumburg Lippe I
>of- renounces all its pofleflefHons om the right of 1 v
ter- the Wefer, in favour of Pruflia, and receives lli
there againfl— I is
of t. Those parts of the Landgrave of Hefle I "
rg) Caflcl, in the county of Schaumberg Lip- I
the pe and Pyrmont. I a
Inn 2. Such parts of the electorate of Hanover, L,
.irg, situate on the left of thr Wefer, between 1,,
Im- the bifhopricksof Paderborn, and coun- I>i
bia, ties of Schaumberg and Pyrmont, con- |'•
■s of taining among others, the small towns of I''
lar- Poll, Bodenwerden, and L zhain, with I
the county of Sternberg. I e
irms 3. That part of the abbey Corvey, on the I 1
in- ltft of the Wefer. j
4. The Prulfian dominions, and those of the I h
ence bishop of Paderborn, situate in the coun- I
cep- ty of Lieppe, viz.'Lipftadt, and the j
the bailiwick Swalenberg, Oldenberg, and I
Stoppelberg. I ~
■left XII. The house of Saxony to give up I h
aub, the Marquifate of Laufitz, and to obtain— lii
and- 1. The eleftor of Saxony. 1 11
with a. The wholecounty of Mansfield, the lord- I 1
(haH (hips Lorn and Keetenberg, and the Sa- I
ts,as al circuit.
aria, b. The Hanoverian pofTeflions in the county I
: left of Hohenflein.
c. The free Imperial towns of Mulhaufen I
>r its and Northhaufen. I
the d. Eichfeld and Erfurt, with the territory I 1
abia, belonging to the eleftorate of Mayenne. I
r, in e. That part of the Franconian circle on the j
; and left of the Eger, and tht- right of the 1 -
z. Mayn, viz. part'of the bifhoprick Bam- I
berg, Wurtzburg, and the Marquifate of I
■enc* Bayrenth ; further, the free imperial city |
ricks of Schweinfurt.
2. The other branches of the Saxon line, I,
>rn. to divide among them the landsof the elefto
ngto rate of Saxony, and the landgrave of HefTe 1
Caffel, in the principality of Henneberg. I
XIII. The King of Denmark gives up 1
tdt; to Sweden, the isle of Bornholm, and the I
ence right of the Sound duties, where againfl I
irards he is to obtain—
I. The Hanoverian dominions on the right I
te on of the Elbe.
1 As- 2. The Free imperial towns of Hamburgh
:. the and Lubeck, with the bifhoprick of the
some fame name.
>unty 3. The eleftoral dignity of the duke of
ihers, Holflein.
1, to- XIV. Sweden to receive—
s, fit- I. That part of the duchy of Pomerania,
main- on the left of the Oder,
will 2. The isle of Bornholm and the Sound du- I
tics.
irt on XV. Switzerland to renounce to France
rrito- Muhlhaufen, situate in the department of
ihe Upper Rhine ; and that part of the I
s-Ro- Canton of Basle on the left of the Birfe ; |
the principality of Neufchatel, and the city I
yence of Gcnf, with its territory, againfl that of
Breifgau, on the left of the Rhine.
Treves The ci-dcvjut duke of Modena fball re- I
eeive for indemnifications—
1. The pari of the Marquifate Baden, 001
fitimte in the Biifgaii.
2. The e'ftjtes of the Great prior of the
Maltese order, rcfrding at Heiterlheim, in
Brifeatt
THE GERMAN CONSTITUTION.
T. Thr emperor of Germany to he cleft- S/
ed be the cle&ors, whose number is to be
nine, viz. eleflors of Bohtrr.ra, Branden- Mat,
burp, Bavaria, Saxony» Wirtemberg, HefTe
Cafel, Weftpbalia,, ' {duke of Brunfwick "
Wolfenbuttle) Holftein( King of Denmark) the
Naflau Bergen (ci devant hereditary Stad- once
thordtr.) P atl
11. The emperor to have the presidency wou
at the a (Terribly, which are only to decide on indt
the treaties between the (lates of the em- wtH
pire, on war and peace, and in general on h' Jt
the otjedis comprising their refpetlive in- my'
terefts. P'f
111. The imperial aflemblies to consist to »
only of one chamber, to be daffed, pac
a. The emperor to have fix votes, as empe- ly 1
ror and eleflor of Bohemia. pat
b. The elefton—ofwhom to hsvefour votes, moi
c. The princes whose revenues amount futi
to two millions of litres, to have will
three votes each. toa
d. Those whose revenues amount to one wil
million, to have each two votes. fuc
e. Those whose revenues amount only to hat
jco,ooc livres, (about 24,0001. (terling) j lim
to remain under the jurifdi&ion of such | fuf
Elc&orates, which dominions are nearest | tou
their own. e^_
f. Each bf the imperial states entitled to a wil
feat and vote on the diet, may, withoat bu
the content of the Empire, mak« treaties fp<
either with the co-states, or with foreign vai
powers, refpeding the arrangement of the Ja
i boundaries of their several poffeflions, and
also their securities and commerce. 'p a
g. Each imperial (late may eftablilh (within th
its own jurifdiftion, schools, academies, "
fire. «
h. The eleflors and princes only, whose re- ly
venues amount to ;wo millians of livres er
(or 83,3331. sterling) can cxercife the pri- de
vilege of coinage, and the right de nan "
appellando.
i. The union of two ele&arates uever to be w
admitted!!! P 1
t. If an electorate (hould havr no successor, pi
or'awful heir, the ie(l of the eleflors in
shall elefl a new one from among the im- di
perial states, which pofTef* the feat vote ; tl
on the diet. !
The donations of the other princes, who , tl
leave no heirs or successors, (hall be in- ci
corporated with the possessions of the next ft
neighbouring eleflors, or with those fit- si
; uate in the lame circles. a
- /. There (hall be established a highest court li
of Justice, whose members fliall be ap- o
r pointed on the diet, and who are to de- v
I cide on the differences and disputes arif- ' v
i ing among the states of the empire. t
t m. The fubjefls of the States which do not 1
enjoy the right de nan appellando, may c
i appeal 10 this highest court of justice. a
NOTE OF A OIKH SPONDENT. \ '
II It is confidently (aid that the above is already r
e the third plan of the division of Germany, form
cd by the French, which in its balis has at last J
c been agreed upon by the Emperor Francis the
' Second, and vhich is now hastening its ve
rification, by the Emperor's troops retiring ve- ;
e ryfaftfrom all the places towards the Rhine, ,
>f vhere the French follow them at their heels. ,
cs In their fecei.d plan, the cities of Hamburgh and
Bremen were offered to hu Prussian majesty.on ,
f e Londitioiis very nnfavourable to the English na- 1
tion and its eomnitrce j yet, if the late monart h
3 had lived a few months longer in a fiateo! irsr f
aiiing bufinef», the Luchefinian faaion would
r » certainly have persuaded his rnJjcfty t« receive,
?n where nothing needed to be given in return, but
n- merely to do foree harm to an old friend and
n. ally, which was by them confidtred ala baga-
D f telle. His present Prussian majesty, however, is
1 not likely to iften to fimilarjuopofitions, which
has masileffed itfelf already in the public audi
ence the Prufßat) minister had of the lcnate at
Hamburgh, where he conf.den'.iully though not
rjficially (inorderto prevent eclat) aflurtithe ve
he nerable senators, that his ttiajrfty was sorry for
he reports <( of his taking pofleffion tif the Han
)c featic towns, which he meant to support ami
, prote'S wilh all his influence ; and that he had
wish t'.ifpleafmre returned all overtures made to
hiwn os that head, unopened !" Ihista£t may
'P he re ,'ieel en, although the article of its publicity
in 'he Copenhagen Gazette has in some measure
been contradifled, because announced there an
official communication, v: hich it w r as not of ana
re to have been :i ue, bee aufe of the great »li
a " 'omatic improprietyof fimilarcommunications.
Tlie next advice from Raftadc will ce tainiy
ty *,nfir»ii every article of the ground-work, tho'
-veral modificatioas, and even confirlerable
.'tuffian and R'.fiian majerties (hould take a ve
ry ry serious part in .heir opposition. However,
he plan has great charms fur mod of the migb
;ier powers ot Europe, lecaufe they are to receive
{J'
m- For Sale,
. of By Elliston isf John Perot,
No 4c, North IVater Street,
London particular Madeira Wine, in pipes and
quart r ealks, 4 years old and fit for immediate ufc.
to- Inferior do.
A few bales Allih.id Coffes
r Bandanna Handkerehkls 4
Sail CanTaft, No i,toQ
U P A Tewbsgs of Juniper Berries
Ht A parcel of Soal Leather, rid
nft A few boxes of China.
march j tuJtf4W
rht FOR SALE,
The House in Chernut-ftreet,
•gli sffXT door but on« to the corner of Fifth-ftreet,
the occupied by the (nbferiber. Its eligible situation
s well km own—The rooirs are spacious and con
r veoicnt, aud finilhtd'in ahandfome ftile—lt has
1 double Kitchen, and excellent Cellars, with an
ce House and rain watpr Cittern, and there- is a
Pump of good water .near the kitchen door,
lia, For terms anoly to
GARRETT COTTRINGER.
tlu- march ». § 1 w
TO LET,
nee ylnd may be entered on immediately,
of A good dry Store,
the Three {lories highj and in an excellent (land for
fe ; bnfiasft. Apply to
;ity Thomas £s* Ji ijhua Filler,
. of trareh T. S, No <, l'ock-"r. <t.
Hylon and Young Hyson Tea.
re " A few c ells of excellent quality, lor fa'e, cor
nw of Second and fine streets. Djc 16—cetf
rji)t mttft*.
M
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY EVENING, March 3 T. "
E»ira£ nf a letter from an Eajlern State, dat
ed 2 2nd of February 1798.
" What a pity that more than one third . j ( j ( . t
the number of a certain afiembly, that were ' t i, e
once thought refpeftaMe are avowedly the ' in d<
patrons of ftich abuse and indecency as j have
would disgrace a parisian fifh woman. We P ara
indulged a hope that the ferocious animal
would be driven to the wilds of Vermont, ' '
but a'as, such is the infatuated rage of an jy
inveterate party, that they hesitate not, im
plicitly, to fay to the people,"fend any man
to reprefeut you, without refpe<St to his ca
pacity, chara&er/principles or manners; on- I
ly let him arrange on our fide, and we will , e d
patronize him." It is already suggested a- lett
motigfl: us New-England Tanlees, that in the wit
future eleftions of Federal representatives it pap
will be unnecefiary to adv*rt to the intellec- cei>
tual qualities of the candidates, but that it the
will be of the utmost importance to feleft 1
fuchas are dirt ingui(hed formufcular strength pic
habits of bullying and especially for the sub- ter
lime talent of spitting. As the house have re- per
] fufed to do justice to themselves, to their
| country, and to Mr. Grifvvold, it is fufpedt- ant
ed that he will Ho it for himfelf, if a club thi
will make any impression on the Lyon's hide; den
but I conje:.iure that an a more accurate in- ed
fpedioti of the creature, the deception will me
vanish, and he will appear nothing but a as
Jack-ass disguised in.a Lyon's (kin. au
What a wade of time have our celebrated
•patriots made in their attempts to sap, or ra
ther to usurp the executive authority—but, Q
" tve the peopleat the northward, fancy
curfelves too enlightened and we are aflnred
. ly too firmly attached to our excellent gov
ernment, to be the dupes of their JineJJing
. declamation, we are not now to learn, that g
" Exclujive patriots are Conclufve knaves." St
I remarked, that refufing to expel Lyon,
: was injustice to our country ; because it is
presumable that the collected wisdom of the S'
, people of the United States, all concentrates S!
5 in Congress, whatever therefore impairs the
. dignity of tha* afiembly, is derogatory to f r
; ! the people from whom they derive their au- 1
j thority and importance. It is this view of f (
j the fubje<3 (and this view I conceive to be S
- correft) which has given birth to these cur
t I fory refledions, you will therefore, my dear
- fir, excuse me if you think any expreflions J
are da(hed with an undue asperity. My re
t ligion forbids me to speak evil of "the rulers
1. of the people," but if they, by a solemn p
:- I vote declare to the world that they are un- .
worthy of consideration, and thus divest p
themftlves of every claim to refpeft, who f
it is to blame? I positively affiim, that if one t
y of my domestics (hould spit in in the face of
another, T (hould consider it my duty in- j
(lantly to exptl the offender at unworthy a ]
ty residence in my house." 1
ft Extrafl of a letter from ogeitlemMn in Rhode-Jjland, to j
le his fryndin this, city, dated Feb. 22.
e " " We have traced the proceedings of congress •
c " in the affa;r between Mr.Grilwold snd I yon—
e > on the part of the latter it was a mod rafrally and
' s - diftionerable business, and I was in hope# the house
>d would (o far have been friends to decency and their
>ll own honor, as to have expelled him ; but as that •
a- queilion s mld not pc carried, the issue has been as
. h 1 expeet-d. I wi(lt it may end here. Whatever f
f- lurther ill consequences may occur, those members
Id that veted aga-'nlt an cxpu!fion,mu(l on tiism- f
te, /elves. This is certain, that the honor of eorgrefs ;
lit is deeply wrfun 'ed and degraded at home and a
brpad. This reminds m of an affair
j. that took place in our house of reprcfcntativus a
j, bout the year 1777.
c jj " In 1775, when the Rhode Island brigade Wis 1 1
quartered at Roxbury, they vver# called upol to •
at furnith a subaltern% guard for Brown's house 011
. neck, which was fnrmfhed accordingly.
Some alarm taking plase in the night, the officer
~ t " (and pai-y) quitted his pofl without being rflliev
-01 ed, and rnaiclied home, with the principal part of
Ln " the guard. He was immediately sent after, and
with a flrong escort brought back to camp, where *
he was tried by a court martial, condemned, and
t° turned out of the brigade.
lay "In a year or two after he was ele<£ted arep
ily refentative for and attended in his pi ce.
ire The affair which had happened in the army being
an generally knewn, many of the members of th«
ia- hcufe supposed that he w>i not a proper prrf.>n
tli fpr a Jegifl'tor ; the matter was taVcn up ml his
ns. sea' was voted to be yacant, and an order issued,
jly signed by tbn speaker, for the town to retnrti ano
10' thtr member
k| e •" This is what took place in the house of rep
refertanves of the little state of Rhode IHand, at
ve _ a time when it was invade Iby a powerful fl*et
and army How honorable would it have been
i j ) ' had fimilarjufticebecn done to the Vermont tr.em
' ber"
we
=- Reasons for Repealing the Stamp A3.
Tie antis swear " there's nothing worse,
_ •• Than a full, flowing public purse ;
* * "It gives the gover meot a tone,
" Which mikes u> fu! and Tigh and groan,
*nd <■ f or there's an end t* fa>3ion'» eaufe,
jfe. •• if we niut truckle tn the laws—
" A«d all our hopes from Frenth invalion,
« Are loft, if thus they prop the nation."
From th, MERCHANT S ABrERTISER.
(*-T DtSlltt.)
SOME days before the late uleiftion, an afler-
H tion appearnd in my paper, that the cemmirtee
appointed to try the eledion of Israel Israel, were
not unanimous in their report against the validity
; of his feat. On the day innuJiattly preceding the e
' legion, the letter signed Matthias Barton, contra
' dicing the assertion, was handed to me for publi
"on cation. I thought it my duty as Editor to obviate
°?~ the afperGon it tended throw upon the v racity of
" my paper; but I was more particularly impeil d, by
my duty as a citilen, to ascertain the fail, in of
" der to remove improper itnpreflions on the day of
election. In confequenee, :.ccomj»nied by a rcf
peflable citizen (whose voucher lor this statement
msy be seen by apf lying to me) 1 called upon ty. o
of themembersof the committee, aud aflced them
severally, whether the committee were unanimous.
The firtt was loath to ar.fwer- dircflly. but gave
nsclearlyto understand ibat the committee were
not Mmwv. "jt might be seen. he said upon
1 for , the lace of the report, that they were not." The
| Otli. r meivber called upon, declared if ft inequi
' vocally, thr.t *hcy were rot wncnrnoovt, and that he
, t . I was ;et fre/.nt Vi hcu the report was signed If their
nii.u ar, to the al ove certificate, as affeitet!, it
ea. it is for them to fay htw they got there it fce
tor of th«ir deel ratiou-to me ai.d «iy (i-end I j rc
:eif ' mifed not to mention their names in the ufc 1 made
of the information thi?y fivemt, and Fcr
rcaf.jn only 'hey arc witlihel.l
BINJAMIN FRANKLIN BACH 3.
MarJi J.
UK. tr ■ NO.
Is anf ver to the note addre/Ted to me by 7 !*«
T. MatUik, clerk of the eonwnittee f the en*
ate which appeared in your paper of Ij!I even
ing I need only rrfrr to my reply to the pul-ln
cati in of Mr. M. Bar:c\jl, a copy of which 1 e»«
clsfe so: insertion * It will there be fr<n, that
I derived my information,from two members of
the eemmittee, a fqurre which I was warranted
in declaring to be of " the brjl authority " X
have no hrfitation further to declare, that thf
paracranh t > which M Matlatk alludes was
" net founded on ar.y derived from
h m d rt'Aly orindirnflly "
BENJ. FRANKLIN BACHE.
March 3 '
* 'See yeflerday's Gazette.
«
Ml. FENNO,
In your Gazette of lass evening, I obfer*
ved a publication, said to be " a copy of a
letter from a gentleman in Connefiicut,
with his defi re to get it publifhcd in your
paper."—The person who pretends he re
ceived this letter, signs with Z. Z. ; and
the letter is fubferibed with Sic Transit,
It is prefutned you have not publifhcd this
piece, without knowing there is such a.let»
ter in existence, or at lead knowing who thv
person is, that makes the affcrtion.
I will thank you to let tne know when
and where I may fee this Mr. Z. Z. ; for
this purpose, I fend you my name iind reft
dcncc. If cannot procure tne the desir
ed interview, phafeto publilh such state
ments of fadU, as yon may judge proper}
as I with to search a little further into thg
authenticity of this pretended letter.
Youts, &c.
GAZE T 7 E MARINE LIS 7.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA. *
ARRIVED.
Bn'g Pomona, Morton IfleFranec 115 day*
Schr. Fanny Bridget, Dun, New-York
« Hetty, Mafou, Savanna
s CLEARED.
: Ship Arethufa, Woods, Cork
5 Sloop Sally, Labbree, Port-au-Prince
' Capt. Mason of the schooner Hetty,
' from Savanna, informs that he left there the
- 19th ult. the following vessels nearly ready
f for sea.
e Ship Jean, M'Pherfon of Philadelphia
Columbia, M'Kinzie Petersburg
r Columbia, Harvey
8 Brig Amelia, Houlton Philadelphia
JefTerfon, Morris do
"S The schooner Harriot, Da Costa, of this
n port, failed a few drys before for St. Croix
>- . Sloop Robert, Briggs, failed for this
ft port in company of the Hetty, and the ship
0 Sally Butler, Chifholm, from hence arrived
•e the fame day.
if The brig Diamond, Eaftburne, of and
for this port from Liverpool, arrived at St,
a Bartholomews, about 10th Jan. after being
blown off the coast.
Several vessels were seen (landing in for
u the Capes on Wednesday last.
The ship Hope, Benbridge, from the
-^ s Mole is below.
The Cleopatra, Wills, for Canton, and
,f e several other outward bound vessels lay at
;ir Reedy-Island on Thursday morning, at
,at which time the George Barclay, M'Allifter>
as j for Calcutta was at Newcaflle, and Ntptyn*,
: Jeffries, for Batavia dff Wilmington creek,
j The ship Belvidere got up to London the
ess 28th day after I'eavitigj New-York.
a " The ship Pi'nnfylyania, Williamfon, of
alr this port, after leaving Hamburg for Hav
re, has returned to the former port in
1 distress.
to; The fchoonei* Swift, Webb, of this port
011 from New-York \ has arrived at Martinico.
ly-
* r _ NEW-YORK Feb. 28.
of Yeflerday art ived sloop Two Friends,
ud Captain Pound, 45 days from Martinique,
and 3P from S'i:. Croix, and informs ns,
nJ that'a fleet of mt rchantmen and tranfportt
p. arrived at the « bove place while he lay
ce . there, with troo ps, &c.—that 29 fail were
i"g miffing, and, that 5 captains of the miffing
tha vessels had arrived there from Guadaloupe i
O'ti —From the latter circumstance it is sup.
e<)j posed the greater part have fallen inte the
no- the hands of Fren h Cruisers.
\\ —w——i»
tp a ; NEW-TMEATR .
e?n SATURDAY EVENING, March 3,
Will be prcfented/tbe Hi v U r r.cal Play of the ntft
pnrt Sf
HENRY IV.
WITH TH t
HUMOURS VF SIR JOHt.* fALSTATF*
To which will be added th' Farce of
, The Devil to Pay ;
Or, The Wivrt Mctam irphofid,
The doors will be Ape *.d at hilfpaft
1, five, and the performance begin at half palt fix
"
Box, <ce Dolla- ; T-i:. threr of a Dd!*
Jar ; ami Qjllciy, hi I t L)wlar
Tickets to be had.at H. and P. RicE*shook-Oorc,
p No. ftrec m.at re OfHc-adjeining
the Thearc VIVAT RZSt'UQLICA
•«e LA Nf) /ATC,
From on board the Ship Sally, from
tr'a* Calcutta,
tbli- AKD FOR SALt 9Y THE SUBICRIBIi,
iate i6co bags prime Sugar,
Y 800 do. Gingef
»by
jo bales low priced piece Goods.
yof \ 7 ohn Miller, Jun.
rc f. march
~ TO RENT, ~
Kem A good three story House,
ouß. TWO rooms otr etch floor, with » convenient
s»v« Htctier—in Front, near South Arret - Enquire
rhr Printer. nia c i»v w
ihick IVicdium Paper,
j. si itilile for coppi r plite priming
. E-ntlJh and Amcrhm WR!ING CAPER
thcir PAR>- HMF.NT »nU VEV.LUM
I" „ Frr Sale by
i' ce ""d J am " Crulfkanl,
1 re- N». 17> Hl ß h - reeu
uade mirch J. *e«3tJUST RECEIVED,
AND FOR SALS, AT
W. Young's Book-store,
Corner of Chefnnt and Second ft rents,
( Fried JO Cents J
Ca«fes «jui fe font oppofees aux
Progre> <to commerce, nitre Li FKANCEet lei
. K f A rj-UMS de L'AMERIqUE.
Avee lei Moyens de L'accelerer ;
Et la comparaifon de la Dettc Nationale
de rAngleterrc, de la France, and des
ETATS-UNIS.
In fix Lettres, addreflae* a Monfieurlc Mar
quis ds la Fayette. Traduitjur le Ma
nufcrit Anglais du Colonel SWAN, ancien
Mcnbre de la Ligtflature dela Reptiblique
du Mafiachuffet.
Le Comm.rce eft laportionU plus importante des
(Richeffes Nationales.
LeTridentdeNeptune.cftlefceptredu Monde.
Lkmisii,
Or cautes that have been opposed to the
PROGAFSS of between
FRANCE and the UNITED STATES of AMERICA.
Witn the means of accelerating it;
And a. companion of the National Debts
of England, France, and America.
In Six letters, directed to the Marquis
be la Fayette.
Tranflatrd (into Fnnoh from the original Eng
li(h Maiiui'crirt of Col. Swan, forihcrly a Mem
ber ef the 1 .egiflature of Massachusetts.
Ommerco i» the molt important portion of the
Wealth of Nationa.
1 he trident of Neptune it the Sceptre of
the world. Limieu*.
AT a juncture when the question of
a Commercial Treaty tvitb France may soon
become an objeft of difeuflion, a work of this kind
becomes extremely ufeful to those citizens of tht
United States, who may be defiroiu to enable them-
Tclves to view thi9 fubje<ft, under its various af
pe<Ss ; and they will have the falisfadion to be
furnilhed with the necessary data, to judge of the
vfefulnefs of this tranfaflioo.
'lhia work ia principally diftinguilhed by the
richntfs of the observations, the perfpi.uity of th«
i.'cas, and the raodefty of the theory which it
contains. -*t Pars, a man of wit ebferved, that
this work was like a rich farmer's barn, heaped up ■
to the very roof with ufeful produce. It is addref ■
fed te the unfortunate La Fat*tti, in letters,
which fugitive fo'm, the author who could only
devoteafew weekstothis occupation, was obliged
to adopt. Although eircumUane-ss at* in many
refpe&s different at the present day, from what
thty we»e in the year 1790, when thefii letters
were written, yet it may be justly said.that so ma
lty abfoluteand permanent data Hill remain, that
the judicious reader will not appreciate the work
lesson that account ; on the contrary, as many of
the alteration*, which have been made, are the re
fcilt of the author's remarks, it will fcrve 10 con
vince him that in all tranfa&ioi.s, between free
nations, every thing maybe expeiled from the ef
forts of truth andjuflice.
LETTER I.
General view of the obftacles,'created in France,
to ptevent the extension of commerce, with the
Uni'-ed Stat s—Obfenratiens made in a tour, taken
for that express purpose, upon iome French manu
factures (a precious fragment this). Examination
an'j r u'.ation ot the prejudice! exifling in France,
agvi' 1 tile quality of certain produiflions of the
United States, and .again!) the advantages of their
importa-ion—Uemonllradon of the bad policy of
laying duties oh their importation, principally on
™-ovifious in gener> 1, and on fait provilions, and
filh in pa titular—Coofiderations 011 the regulations
of the Frenchcu.'om-htMifes.
LETTER 1!.
Obllaclcs to the extension of trade with Fran:e,
proceeding from circumAar.eea and individuals m
the United States—Proofs that thefc obstacles are
only temporary and will be removed (they have
been ren'oved) by time and thi wifdpm of govern
ment—Hiitory.f the influence of the American
paper money—lmportant j rinciplos and a'ollra<3
eonliderations on moncy-and circulation—Causes
of the Hagnation cf merican trade, after the
peace—Critical examination of French .oods, im
ported into America, and extraordinary conduct
of the French merchants—Effeds of good com
mercial laws; a id patriotic wifheaon t>his fubjeil—
Obfcrvations on money weights and nicafures.
LE l"T IK IM.
iffayin the for™ • t a tiiilcau, to appraise the im
poi tat ions into the United States si eri France and Eng
land un-tcd. The author examines at each article,
whether it can be better lurinllied from France or
England—lt ia [nincipally on this fubjeft (which
would haveall r >niihcd a nice th :orifl)tbat the author
appears to evince great commere i .1 experience. Thefc
kind of talUr.iix. uuluckily as difficult to obtain as
they >'e much to be deliied, a t the only sure guides
the llatefman can take for the policy of treaties, de
prived of which he ia continual ly deceiving or decei
ved. Wecannottoo much at 1 mire the apparent ex
aftnefs of colonel Swan's calcu lationi ; and ati hough
the proplieftea of LoTd Shcffi eld have alieady been
eontradified by experience, «r ul by feverai able pens,
yet itiscntious to fee the iar of the prelent work,
dispute with him the only grnurd on which he has
not been hitlierto attacked, by proving that Fiance,
under the required conditio a, will he better able
than Gieat Britain to supply ' js with ftveral articles,
which the Enjlifh authoi alio a exclusively and forev
er to the latter i the author' , fwttility njjcS on (if he
has any) doea nut appear to have at any time created
a partiality «fjudgment. The rcfult of this calculation
ia that in 1789, that is to !:»y, ata period wlien arts
and manufaflures did sot present in France the vsft
means aud probability of extension which they now
poflefs. lhat even in 17?#), it waa presumable, that
France would not only have the means 10 supply one
ba'if of »nv given aisanti .y of the produftions of France
end f ngland united, but.alfoto enter into competition
with Great Uiiuin fov the remainder, in pioportion
to the Wildom of be>» govcrmnent, and the industry
of her inhabitants. /
VETTER IV.
Calculation of t'tie exportation of the United States,
ind particular e-jaminaiion of their fuitablenefa to
France; thia ia c«e reason why, notwithflanding the
excell-nt wotk 'kf Mr. Tench Coxe, Mr. Swan's tn-
UMai 11 by "o infant (upeifluwu . the principle of the
tdvantagts which v.- uld rcfult to France from the
importation{ provifiomar.d raw materials, it every
where applied; and it ia upon thu argument, that
the author eClablifhea his demands to the French go
vernment, for the limited admiiHoa of the produc-
Honsot hia country in»o Frwce.
LEiTtK. V.
Tableau, of the debt of the United States at that
time—Opinions of the author ootne finaocrs, on the
jeffeftsof national debt, on circulation, See. as more,
aaiply detailed in his National Arithmetic printed at
Boston in the year 1786 ; the whole lo
strengthen in France, thcjmbl c and private credit
of the United State* —theliappy condition of Ameri
ca, and the mifcries anting from the public debt in
Europe, are coatrafted in the ablest manner, and un
der the noil Ariking ielatU»ns, by very cu ious cal
eulations—'Observations on the wisdom and economy
which preside «ver the public expenses in Maftachu*
setts. In this place the patriotifni of the author ap
pears, with all the elevation which ajoft national
pride ioipircs. The ancient government* of Europe,
lays he, will learn from us the art ot economy in
rccompenfingthefeivices which the country receives;
Jmongjl us U will be fan % that men are chojen Jot placet,
and n*t pieces for men. This letter coi»eiu<l«s with a
general view o! the public pioperty, deposed ia tiie
hands of the covcrt ment of the United States.
LETTER VI.
General examination of the defefts of the commer
cial policy of France with refpeft to the United States;
many of tnefe observations have produced the effc&s
for which they were iotended f otlicTS QiU remain
out the refoims to be made in future, as •
6 cod chart insiki the fheals and rocks, The author
eonclades his work, by fixing his attention on hi*
country, and the great men who have rendered it il
lustrious: and we take a pleasure in quoting what he
fiys of the pref«-nt chief of our government. To
praise a man when he,evercifes a distinguished em
ployment, is common, and may be taken for flattery ;
but whiift he is io private lite, it is the homage of
fwceiity.
Note, page 316 of the work,
* Les hatiitans des Ktats-unis, fuivant daivs leur
choix le burn public, dc excites par un principe de
reconnoiiTanee, rhoifirent M. John Adams pour vice
preOdent du nouve«u congres. Ses efforts, pour pre
server le peuple des intrigues formees par 1c gouv
fnien ent Anglais contre fa liberte, le rendirent tres
fufpetl a ceux qui etoient en pouvoir Le pruple,
convdincß dc son merite, le choifit pour un dc fes
reprefentans dans le premier congtts. De cc nombra
etoir aufii M. Samuel Adams, pairiote aufli intrepide,
qu'in'ang««b!e. La revolution Americaine doit beau
coup a la perfevcrance de fes travaux, & a fes talens
diflinges. Cenx que M. John Adams a developpes
dans le traite de paix, qui s'eft fait a Paris en 1783,
ont prouve qu'il etoit mimftrc aufli habile que grend
po uique. Et aans son ouvrage fur la defease de la
conftituiion il a montae toutes lescan
aoitTances qui forment lea vrais jurifconfultes &. les
hommesde loij connoiflances necelfaires, pour rem
plir hanorablemcnt les de president du fenat
des E:ats-unis.
' ; ITOT TIC E.
A AlanufaStry cf yellow and delft -ware,
Such as never waa in this Country before, has been
been lately ere&ed at Tivoli, Red Hook Landing,
onthe Eaii Bank of Hud ton's River, Ihf of
York, where any article of vaiious sons and shapes
may be executed, as well as earthcrn Roves upon a
new eonfttuftion, that saves three fouiths of the fuel
commonly used in cast iron lloves or open chvmnies;
they are bcfides very wholesome and ornamental, by
applying to
J. MOUCHET,
Wanted a fkillful hand to attend to the bakinp and
glazing part of the said ware. Generous appoint,
ments will be given. Apply asab we, or to
DAVID BROQKS, Elq.
No. 71 South jth Street.
Feb. eod4w
To Be Sold,
AGREEABLY tothclaft will and teftamentof
William Hftsham, deceaCed, and pofTef
fioa givMi immediately, a valuable property in Arch
flreet, between Third ar.d Fourth streets, confid
ing of the house, No. 107, with the lot on which
it is erecited, a (table, and other improvements.—
TheVoufe is 10 feet front, and contains ten good
apartments. The lot is ef the fame breadth as the
house and 209 feet deep, with a well of water and
a very capacious walled cistern, both with purnpa
in gonp repair. The liable (lands en the rear of
the lot and will accommodate four horfcs and a car*
riage. This property enjayathe pftpetual privilege
of a t6feet court and an alley, 8 feet wide,extend
ing to Cherry Street. Its central pofitien and the
advantages it poflefTca with relpe<st te free ventila
tion, renders it well worthy attentio.i sf any
pcrfen wlfhing to po/Tefa an eligible property hi Phi
ladelphia,
For further particulars enquire at No SB, Vtr.c
Street—of
Rgbert Hztsham,
or > Adlinj Executors.
Francis Bowks Sayri, )
January II J
NOTICE.
ALL pcrfona who have any demands against
the estate of Willam Flfewtood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, arc requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly attefled; and thofc who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, te
GEO. DOBSON, I A . in:/l , r
No. a 5, So. Third-ftrect. 5 Adm,ni J lr r
January 4. dtf
Ran away from the Subscriber,
On the 24M January tail,
A Black Woman, named -Zelime.
SHE is o( a middling sized ftaturc, thick lips,
marked with th? small pox in the face—She
1 carried off a v undle of linen with her. Whoever
takes her up and brings her to the fubferiber, at
No 181, Arch-ftrcet, corntr of Fourth-street,
(hall receive two Dollars reward
J. I.AZELLES.
N, B. Whoever harbors f id Girl aiter this no
tice, (hall be pr.fecuted to the severity of the law.
Februaty 10.
New-York, January 24, 1798'
PROPOSALS
By Arondt Van Hook,
Proprietor of the Reading Room ;
For Ptiblifhing by Subfeription,
An Appeal to Impartial Posterity,
By Madame Roland ;
Wife of the Minister of the Interior in France-
CONDITIONS.
These scarce and very valuible Historical Me
moirs, (which ran through two London edi
tions in a few months,) will be comprised in 2
vols. o(S)avo, ol 400 pages each.
They will be printed on fine paper and a new
type, and delivered to Subscribers, neatly bouhd
and letteied, at 1 dollar and 50 cents per vol
ume—one third of the Sublcription money tobe
paid on delivery of the firft volume—the re
mainder when the work iscompleat.
To printers, Booksellers, and others, who
acquire Subscriptions, the ulual allowance will
be made.
£s* Subscriptions art taken at the Reading
Room, N». 149, Water street—the Printing-
Offiee, 149, Pearl-street—and at the different
Bookstores in New-York Also, by William
Young, cerner f Second and Chefnut street, rnd
the Editor of the Gazette ef the United States,
Philadelphia.*
As soon as a fufficient number of Subscribers
are obtained, the work will be put to press, aid
compleated with the utmost dispatch.
Feb. ao. eodam
PROPOSALS,
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTIOI\
A NEW ANO INTERESTING WORK, ENTITLED,
A TREATISE
ON THE POLICE OF LONDON,
Containing a detail of the various crimes and *vif
demeanors, by which public an-d private proper
ty, arc, at present, injured and endangered :
And iuggefiing remedies forthcir prevention.
BY A MAGISTRATE,
A&ing for the counties of Middlesex, Surry, Kent,
aud ElTex ; for the city and liberty of Weftmin
ftcr ; and for the liberty of the Tower of Lon
don.
CONDITIONS.
This work will be printed in a Jorge o&ave, on
an excellent Engiifh paper—lt will be delivered to
fubferibers, bound in boards, at the moderate price
of One Dollar and a half; although the la It London
edition, on inftrior paper and meanly bounjJ, re
l now fold at *wo dollars and a half. "To non-fub
fcrfbers the price will be raised.
Whatever encouragement may be given by sub
scription, it will We committed to the j*«fs without
delay ; and, birring accidents, will be roady for
publication early m April.
£s* f nbfcriplioin will be thankfully received at
Benjamin Daviess's book-ftoie, No 68, High
ftreet, aod by inofi of tha other booksellers is the
city ; by George Hill, in Baltimore; anil by Sam
uel Campbell, and A. Drun.mond, in New-York.
Jacuary 31. aav.tA
PROPOSALS,
ir th»
Insurance Company tf North Anierica.
For Insurance against Fin, on Dwnllihg-
Houses, Ware-Houses, and other Buildings (and
on Oood* contained in such Building*) diflant from
Philadelphia, in the United States.
1. Common fufurancei, on hazards of the firft
class, will be undertaken at a premium of sfliout
half per cent, per annum. For extra hazardous
rifques a larger pretr i*m will fce required, which
will vaiy according to circumstances, fcidom ex
ceeding one per cent, per annum ; but in some in
stances, where the property insured is not only in
itfrlf extra hazardous, but rendered still more To
by th: vicinity of extra hazardous buildings and
occupations, the premium demanded will be railed
according to eircumftacces.
Houses and Ware-Houses, the walls and parti
ti«ris of wkich are wholly of /tone or briqlc, well
cunllrufled, i'o as to b» guarded as well as may be
against fires from within, and tree l'rom extra ha
zardous buildings and occupations in their neigh
borhood, will be deemed hazardous of the tiril
class, a>id may be insured to their full value.
Also Goods and Merchandize, not oi an extra
hazardous kind, in casks. bales, or pack-agos, de
pofirtd in such buildings, to an amount not ex
ceeding 4000 dollars ; but if more' than thisfnm
is required to be insured in one tenement, an addi
tional premium will be required, in proportion to
circumllances.
11. Infursnces will also be made on buildings and
goods extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to tha risque. But it is not easy to arrange these
under particular heads or daffes, so as to defctibe
each with the ncceflary accuracy. Each east mufl
■ therefore be decided upon according to the cireum
ftances attending it; and these circumftaiiecs wili,
in general, appear from the defcriptioli accor-ip*-
uying the application.
Buddings partly eonftniifted of brick or stone,
are preferable to those wholly wooden. And in
both cases, the stile of building, how they are oc
cupied, how they are fitutted, the neighboring
hiildings, and how occupied, are considerations to
be taken into view. And withrefpeft to goods,
their tendsncy, whether from their nature, or
•from the niantur in which they arc exposed, either
to commence or to increase an accidental fire, and
their liability in such state to receive damage by
wet, or by fvddcn and hasty removal, or to be fl.o
len in time of confufion and hurry, are all cir
cumstances of weight ; and the premiums muil be
proportioned accordingly.
111. The following cenditiont are to be und«r
ftood by the parties.
i(l. The Infnrance is not binding till the ftipa
lated premium be paid ; but it (hall be deemed ef
fefiual from the time 0/ fueh payment and accep
tance thereof, whether the policy be immediately
signed or not.
»d. Insurances may be renewed at the expira
tion of the term of the policy, without farther ex
pcnfe« than the payment of the premium of the re
newed term, the circumllances continuing the sam«
as they were anderltood by the Infurrrs at the time
the former insurance was maAi ; but the payment
of the premium is fuch renewal ; and
if the party insured fuffers any time to elapse after
the expiration ef the former insurance, before he
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
during such time; nor can the insurance be renew
ed on thd former policy but by computing the
commencement of the renewal from the expiration
of the former insurance. The fubjeft of insur
ance may neverthslefs be open to treaty for a new
insurance.
3d. If any other insurance be made on the fame
property ; it mufl be made known at the time of
application, otherwifc the policy made on fucji ap
plication will be void.
4th Goods held in trull, or on consignment,
■ay be insured as such in a separate policy} but
they are not to be considered as infuiedotherwife.
sth. This company will not be liable or accoun
table far any loss or damage occasioned by any for
eign invasion, or by any military or usurped force,
or by peafon of any civil commotion ; or occasion
ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or ether thing of the
like kind kept in the building, or amongst the pro
perty insured.
6th Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu
rities, Title r>e ds, Money, Bank and other pro
mifTttry Notes, are not included in any insurance ;
nor are paintings, Ufdal«, jewels, gems, antique
curioGties, or mirrors exceeding the value of twen
ty-five dollars each, to be considered as insured un
less particularly mentioned and by special agree
ment.
7th. No insurance will be made for a ftorter
term than one year, nor for a longer term than fe
vea years. Persons choosing to insure for seven
years lhall be allowed one year's premium by way
of difeount: One third of a years preniium shall
be abated in like manner on an insurance for
three years.
Bth. LolTas sustained by fire on property inCured,
(hall be paid in thirty days after due prouf and li
quidation thereof, '.lithout deduction.
A defeription of the property to be infurod will
be ixpe&ed with each application, to be made by
a matter carpenter and fijned by him, as well as
Hy the owner of the building ot applicant for in
surance, and attested before a Notary or principal
Magistrate, who will certify his knowledge of the
parties and their credibility.
With refpe<st to Houses and other Buildings,
ift. The Cte aßd pofiti n ; describing the
street or road on or near which the building
ftand3 ; its contiguity to water, and other cir
cumllances relative to the extinguilhment of fire
in cafe of accident; and particularly whether
any and what fire companies are eftahli/hcd, and
engines provided,in the place or neighbour hood.
ad. The materials of which it is built, whe
ther of brick, ftoneor wood, and what part of
each, as well as to theoutiide walls as ipfideor
partition walls, and their refpeitive height and
thieknefs ; the style of the roof and of what
materials ; how secured by battlements or par
ty walls; what kind of access to the top of the
hoyfe and to the chimnies j whether any and
what ele&ric rode j the number and kind of
fire places ; and the kind of deposit for alhes.
3d. The dimensions of the building and how
divided, and the style in which it is finifhed so
as to enable indifferent persons to judge in what
manner ft is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury ; the *ge and condition of the building,
and how occupied, whether merely as a dwel
ling house, or for any other, and for what pur
pefe , also an estimate of the value of the house
or building independent of the ground.
4tb. Tie situation withrefpefl to other build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at lealt one hundred feet
each way : what kind of buildings are within
that diflance, how bi ilt, of what materials,and
how occupied or improved, whether as dwel
lings for private families or otherwise : whe
ther any and.what trade or manufactory is car
ried on, and particularly whether there beany
extrahazardous articles used, or ufuilly depo
sited in the house, or within the diflance afore
fai-l, and of what kind.
Refpe«£ling goods in Houses, Warehouses, Btc.
I- A eeoeial description of the building in
wl.ich they are kept will beexpe&ed, (imilar in
all refp*<fts,as tothedargerfrom fire, with that
required for Infuranse on the buildings them
selves
2. A description of the kinds and nature of
the goods, whether in casks or other packages,
or opened ; and whether displayed in whole
pieces or in the usual form for retailing. And
if the goods vary materially in kind, a general
eftiinate of the value ef each kind proposed to
be insured j but in tTie last particular miwite
nefs of description is not expe&ed.
3. Articles of the following kinds are deem
ed extra hazardous, thnugh in vari"Us degrees,
in whatever building they may be placed, viz.
pitch, tar, turpentine, rol-n, wax, tallow, oil,
inflammable spirits, sulphur, hemp»flax, cotton,
dry goods of an inflammable kind opened.
Gljfi, china ware or porcelain, especially un
packed; Looking glasses, jewelery ; :;ndallo
ther articles mors than commonly inflammable,
or n ore than commonly liable to injury by sud
den removal or by moifluret, or particularly
obnoxious to thoft on an alarm of fire.
Letters pod p-iid, dii the Secretary of
the Board of Directors, will be duly attended
to. An order for Insurance accompanied by the
means of paying the premium, will be imme
diately ixeoifed on the premium beir>p paid. If
the application contain an enquiry 01.ly, it will
be answered.
By order of th, - Board,
EBENEZEK HAZARD, Sec'rj.
Off.ce of the Insurance Company of NortV
America ; Philad. Feb. I, 1798. 3
Felt. 14.
TO TH £ .
Citizens of the .United States.
THE Mifßanary Society of Fhiladelpl)ia % improv
ed with the importance of ameliorating the
condition and augmenting the liappinffs of man
kind, are impelled by motiv«s of re! gion and be
nevolence te attempt the propagation of christian
and civil knowledge among the aborigines of Ame
rica. 1
Those who experienced t*he bleflVd effe<sU
of real religion, a desire to difieminue
its principles, wherever the footftepaof a fellow
man may he found —An opportunity now offers,
for such to evince their fiwerity, by laboring to
gether in aacompliihing the ancient predidion-7
" The knowledge of thi Lord Jhall ewer the earth as the \
tva en do the fei».*'
Living in an age when the devaluations of war
teach us to appreciate and extend the blcflings <j(
peace, all good and enlightened citizens will con
cur with us, that every step which tends to intro
duce the arts of civilisation among the Indians,
rauft be highly favorable to the interest of the Uni
ted States.
The easy access which may be had at present to '
the different tribes, by means of government ef
tablifhmctits in various parts ef their territory—
their tranquil ilate, and the freindly difpofitien of
some of their chiefs—difpofe the Society to believe
that their arfdrcls is net premature. They presume
that nothing more is necessary to excite the atten
tion and fciure the fuppart of their fellow .citi
zens than to present their plan to the confederation
cf the public.
THE Subscribes, penetrated with a convic
tion that their duty and happiness are involved in
promotipg the knowledge and diffufing the spirit
of th*' t/hriflian religion, do aflociate for the pur
pose of fupportinga missionary among the Ameri
can Heathen and thq frontier fettlemer.ts of the
United States, as an eligible mean of accompliih
iiy so desirable an obje3.«— Aware of the perni
cious effedsof party spirit, they think it necessary
to adopt for their guide (as well as to exhibit to
the world the principles by which they will be
governed) the following
CONSTITUTION.
I. The association shall be called the Missionary St»
eiety, >
11. Any person signing the conttitution and paying
the sum of one dollar to the treasurer and the
further sum of one dollar yearly, is a member
daring the payment of his or her fubfenption.
11l Ihe lociety lhall ele»st by ballot an adling com
mittee to consist of a treasurer, secretary and se
ven members, one third of whom (hall be re
newed every fix months—five (hall form a quo
rum to tranfa& business and have power to call
special meetings.
IV. The focicty shall meet evi ry three months at
an appointed place to enatft the necessary laws
and deliberate on the report of the committee
refpe&ing the itate and progress of the institu
tion.
V. No missionary (hall be considered qualified who
is not capab'e of pra&ifing or teaching some ufe
ful art as well as a rational system of religion.—
No other tefi lhall be required, excepting, evi
dences of piety and zeal—that he renounce all
fe&arian names and adopt limply that of Chris
tian.
VI. Should the funds of the society permit, insti
tutions for inftrm&ing the Indians in the agri
cultural an 4 mechanical arts, shall be efiabliftied
among thsm.
VII. As soon as a fufiicient number have sub
scribed, the committee (hall puVlilh under their
infpe&ion a periodical, miscellany entitled the
11 Missionary *\ and the profits anting ,from the
sale (hall be applied to the funds of the society.
No alteration or amendment (hall be made
in the above conftiturion, without the confont of
two thirds of the members, and every such im
prove ment must be proposed three months prior to
itsdifcufiion
The conflitution is left for signatures at 177 S.
Second-street.
gy" The Little Turtle, one of the most influen
tial charavfters among .the Indians North Welt of
the Ohio (who is now in this city) is very anxious
to forward the view* of the society. The Inter
preter, capt. Wells, is also very fauguine a* to the
profpeit of success, and promises all the aid in his
power. February 24.
Bafkenridge—for sale
TT confide of 910 acres, ilmoft all of which is
a fino rich Meadow, (the reCdeneeof the late
Earl of Stirling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which arc bounded on the
East by the river Pafiiek.
Thi-re are on it a number of buildings, forming
afqJare of nearly three acres—The dwelling house
is a v«ry convenient one and a fmallexpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard eoniills of 1500 fintbearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other pnrtsol said
trad near 300 other Apple frees—as also a great
varie'y of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
bed and most delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
Forest Treos, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its situation is about 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and la from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in caih, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chefnut treet.
February a. codtf
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GKOOMBKIDGE with much pleaf
ureand rtfpeifl, returns her sincere to
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
she has received duririg four years residence in
Philadelphia; and allures her friends and ike
public, so far from intending to decline her
l'cliool. (he has ma 'e a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
educat : on is particularly attended by Mrs.
Groombrirlge and matters excelling in rtieir
refpeflive profefiions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Street*.
June sth, 1797. Jimftf
The fitnation is perfe«Jlly healthy : and made
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjeiniag the hotfe.
THIS DAY IS OPEMED,
And for laic by WILLIAM YOUI IG, No. s*,
corner of Second and Chefnut-ft reets,
In one large volume, S vo..
(Price of the common paper, neatly bound, 1 dollars 50
eenit ; fine ditto, Mr boards, 3 doll trs)
AMERICAN T GAZETirEER,
TV'XHIBIriNO, in alphabetical order, a much
1 j more full and accurate Account:, than has
bi en given, of the State*, Province!, Counties,
Cities, Towns, Villages, Rivers, Bays, Harbours,
Gulfs, Sounds, Capes, Mountains, Forts, Indian
Tribes, and New Pifeoverirs, on tVe AM LERICAN
CONTINENT, also of the Wist-Indi k lilands,
and other Iflasds appendant to the Conti l ent, and
thole newly discovered in the Pacific Oc. Lan : De
scribing tlvs Extent, Boundaries, Populati on. Gov
crnment, Prodililions, Commerce, Mantfafturcs,
Curiosities, &c. of the ieveral Countri-n_, and of
their important Civil Rivifions—and tine Longi
tude at.d Latitude, the Bearings and Distances,
from noted Places, of the Cities, Towns, and Vil
lages •, —with a particular Description of 'The Geor
gia Wefittn Territory. The whole comprising up
wards of Seven Thouland diftindt Articles^
Collected and compiled from the btfl. 'luthori
tie, and arranged with great care, by, tuvl under
the direction of
JEDIDIAH MORSE, d. ».
Author of the American Univcrfal Geography—
Fellow of the American Academy of -irtsand
Sciences—and Member nl th« MaffachufetUHif.
torical Society.
[lllluftrated with seven new and neat Ma;H.]
(Publijhod actoriing to aft of Congr*fs.)
Also. FOtC SALE, as above, *
Mr. Morse's Univertfal Geography,
In two large 8 vo. volumes, price 4 dels „$o cts*
Ditto, abridged, at I dollar.
February 26. e»4t
New-Terky February, 1798.
PROPOSALS by GEORGE FORMAN,
*OR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A New and Valuable Work, which has been ex
tant only fix months—entitled
PROOFS of a CONSPIRACY ajainft
all the Religions and Governments of KU-,
ROPE, carried on in the secret meetings oif Free
Masons, Illuminati, and Reading Societies. Col
lected from Rood authot itje-,
By JOHN ROBISON, a. m.
FroJ.VJtr of Natural Pbilrfopby, and Secretary U tic
Royal Soeiety of Edinburgh.
Nam tua res agitur paries cum proximus ardet.
THIS work will be put to prefsas Toon at
400 fubferihers are obtained, and no money requir
ed until the work is completed.— It shall be print
ed with an i legant new type, and on papeir of su
perior qualify, which will comprifi abtfut 400
pages neat oiiavo, handsomely bound and lettered
—tie price will be one dollar aad ftfty cents.
Those who procure 12 febferibers, and become
acconntable, (hall have a 13th gratis—and the u
sual allowance to booksellers.
The above woik comes from the pen of J.
Rohifon, of Edinborougti, a gentleman in high
eft.matioM in the literary world—the fads therein
recorded are well fulftautiate , an d thereafoning
and argumen-s thence deduced, while they disco
ver the found judgment and penetration «f the
writer, are calculated to amule as well as to in
ftrutft. A scene of villainy is developed by the
author fufficient to appal the ftoutefl heart.—-Th«
danger to be apprehended from secret focietias is
clearly pointed out ; the degeneracy of human«a
ture awiully illuflratsd, and the hazard of every
deviation trom the ftrnight path of rfligian and
of virtue, inconteftibly proved both to the politi
cian and the chriftiau by stubborn and incontro
vertable f i&s.
+4t Subferiptioiis taken in by G. Forman, No 46,
tWilliam-flreet, oppo/ite the Pafl-Offiie, and by the refptC
ive booltfctllers in New XorJt and PbilacL-lpbia.
February aB.
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, prop j(ing to contra# his busi
ness, offers this Eltite tor sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a Complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of stones ; also a For., . all
in pcrfeft repair, as are all the Water Works couneft
;ed with these various branches. Ihe Air Fur cei
| were lately built lor the of caitv£ Gasman
| for this State.—There are ahou 'wo thouf mi acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood,t» / dtber
very fine arable I.and, producing ihe bell H»y and
Pallure. The Cannon lately mannfacturcd
fully proves the excellency of the metal, wbich is
luperior to any in this country, and probably t equal
"to any in the world ; for not one of iixtyni c
lately made, although some of the 24 bored
into 32 pounders, have failed on proving. The fru
etion is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
inanufa£lur?, and a place of arms lying in the state
of Connefticut, and ooly 30 miles from f< vera < land'*
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water iifTuing,
frorti a large natural pond, very near the Furnaoe,.
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purpoles. The purchafcr can be accommodat
ed with all the fltock and utenfiis, and have poflcflion
on or before the fir ft of June next, and preparation
may be made in the meantime for going into Bla ft im
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. &c. For
termi, apply to Mr. jofeph Anth« ny, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, Esq. one of the Reprefentatttves
in Got grcfs for this State ; Mr, Duvid Waterman , on.
theprenv:fes, or totheproorietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee. 1. 3awtf
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a generous
rent will be given; to be taken for a year, or oa
more for a longer term. Inquire ef th« Printer.
Qift. if. eotf
FOR SALE,
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Including Long Primer, about ,400 weight, in
good condition, and would answer the purpose »S
a country Prinwr as w<ll as new.
Enquire of the Printer.
City Commissioner's Office,
January 11 tb, 1798.
FOR THI INFORMATION OF THE CITIZENS.
following arrangement is made by the
said commifiianere, for cleaning the
ftr#fts, &c.
Diflrifl No. I.—From the north fide of Vine
street, to the south fide of Mulberry flrfet j to
be under the fuperinttndance ofVlicholas Hirks.
» From the south fide of Mulbrry street, ta
the south fide of C!tefiiut ftrreet, to be under the
fuperintendance of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut street to
the n«nh fide of Spruce street, to be under the
fuperintendance of Joseph Claypeole.
4. From the north fide of Spruce street, to the
south fide of Cedar street, to be under thr fu«
perjntendance of Hugh Roberts. mwfim
Jujl Publijhed,
And to be had of Melfrs. Dohfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Booksellers in the
city .price one dollar, twinty-6ve cents,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
Dy BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. d.
June »o. 'it