'
»
of t*>f mmttn Advertiser-.
\ By John Ward Fenno, N°* ii y Cbefrut Street.
IVUMD'EH 1943.3 PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 3, (798. ['VOLUME XIV.
. 4 1
cTj* The price <tf this Gazette is
Eight dollars per annum to Subscri
bers residing in the city of Philadel
phia. All others pay one dollar ad
ditional, for encloftng and directing;
and nnfefs fomeperfbn in this city will
'became answerable far the fubferip
tion, it mutt be paid Six Months in
advance.
Jr : A 1 -- - '
'Ship Cassias, at Autlion.
ON* MONDAY NEXT,
THE .THTH ISSTAKT,
At six o'clock in the Evening,
WILL BE SOLD, BY AUCTION
• At the Merchants GofLe-Houfe,
THE SHIP
C A S S I U j,
LYING at the nav,-ya;d, with her fails, per in
ventory, w\ich will be prodweed at the time of
/ale, rigging and cables as ihcy now lay at Smith's
llr re* above Rate-ftreer.
The Ship is a fait sailer and in pierced fVr eigh
teen guns, FOOTMAN Co.
au&ioneers.
dec 6 dts
For Sale,
THE SH,P
STONPACKET '
Hnwoi Cqwp>rth«ait, Matter,
PUR'i'HEN about a.jco barrets, t £o«dftroi>g
Ship—lias excellent accommodations so- paffinjers,
Wy be sent tfi sea with fmaU cxpence. SSe is lay
ing at Mifflin's wharf. For further particular en
quire of
.Isaac Harvey, jun, or
'Smith &. Ridgway.
novenib et 16 51 It
iC~ Paul £hip, if not fold orf, or before the .tth
of D'e.mbrr, inft. will on that day, in the evening,
he offered for file by public auction, at the mer
chant's coffee house.
Smith & Ridgway,
Isaac Harvey, jun.
3-
FOR SALE,
3 THE SHIP
PERSEVERANCE,
fames WilTtamfon, master.
Just arrived fom St Domingo, built in Phi
ladelphia, of live Oak and Cedar, copper (heath
ed in London, burthen 310 tons mounting 16
guns and may be prepared for sea in a few days,
With her Cargo,
Now on Board,
CONSISTING OF
151 H«g(head» and 50 barrels Sugar
»6c,000 Weight of prime Coffee in hhds. bbls
and bags &
31 Psneheons of Jamaica Ruin.
ALSO,
R- Williamson, Mtjter.
FROM St. Donaingo, with her cargo, confiliing of
43 hogsheads of Sugar,
And 40,000 weight of prime Coffee.
LIKEWISE,
TUE BRIG
AMIABLE MATILDA,
MOUNTING 1 a Gun= burthen
twi) tkoufcmd two huudred barrels of
Hour, a*>d in aom pleat order.—Apply to
Thomas £? John Ketland.
November 13 5
t or Sale.
r- I~'HE Subscribe*. intending to decline the
X DRUG BUSINESS, offara For Sale, the
whole Stock of
Drugs and Medicines, Instruments, &l,
Ihelhop is elegant, commodious, and fuffici
enrly known lor the extensive business done in the
whul- sale and retail line ; the situation equal to
any in the city, being at the euincr of Walnut and
Sesond streets. The whole, or any part of the
Stock, will be fold, as will bed fuitthe purchaser.
Tha terms may be known, by applying to
JAMES MOORE, jun.
IVlo has For Sale,
Well calculated tor the
I he Peggy, aboutjotonsburthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably
Itout, of an easy draught ef water, riggSne in
good order. 0 " '
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
well, and in complete order for the lumber business.
• AII perfor.s indebted to the late firmed
C,dc'li w ,t W UalJivin, IV. 3. Galdtbwait. Gola
tbnaitV Abo*., or the fubferi'er, are earnestly
fequerted ta make speedy payment to
JAMES MOORE, ibn.
august 3 5
BOSTON beef;
200 Barrels in Shipping Order.
FOR SALE BY
JOIW SKTRIN,
ho. 96, Atrth FrontJireet. '
Who wants to Charter,
A GOOD STOUT VESSEL,
r-ibV-" Of about 300 Tons burthen.
H.IS ALSO fOR SALE,
40 Pipes of Madeira Wine, 3 years old.
r-cv 11 ni4t
Old Madeira Wine.
27 pipes of old London particular
madeira wine,
n ftrosg iron bound Hambro' calks, for
" e °V ROBERT ANDREWS.
Nov - c-odtf
J
v 1; -■ j
Ship Broker's OfPige,
And Coir.mlfllon Store,
No. 1:9, South front Strfft,
Next door to she Cuflorw Koufe.
THE Subfsjriber, encouraged ey the advice of
his f'r!ciuls, offers his I'ervice to the public
, as a Ship ant! Infurancc Broker.— He propof-
M to buy and fell veflsls and every thing relat
ing thereto —alhii matters of vessels and others
ip entering and clearing at the Cnltom-Houfe,
procuring and (hipping freight, fettling Insur
ance and all other mercantile accounts, and
have on hand thepeccfliry Blanks and Stamps.
Papers in foreign languages translated, and in
formation given in general mercantile natters.
—From a knowledge gained by long experience
of every branch of business he hopes to be ufe
ful to those who plejfc to favor him with their
commands. SAMUEL EMERY.
novemker 19 §
FOR WILMINGTON,
North-Caroli n a,
THE SHIP
COMMERCE,
Captain Wood,
-WlLLtakeinfreight on very rno-
terms, and (ail about the
i;th itiftai t. Apply to the Captain on board tit
Latiima's wharf, or
Willings fef Francis,
Penn Street,
november 16 §
FOR SAVANNAH,
The fast sailing and -well
accommo iated Shi?
SWIFT-PACKET,
Patrick Gi.tbben, majler.
A Militant tiader, will fail in a few days.—
For freight or paflage apply to the mafttr on
board, or N. i 3 j. FRA^IER,
No. 95, South Fiont-ltreet.
dec 4 d«w
For SALE or CHARTER,
. THE SHIP
MSbC MOLLY,
Burthen 420s barrels of Flour,
Philadelphia built, well found
a rid fitted, and may be ready
to receive a cargo in a few dayc—(he is pierced
18 gun«,and mounts 12 new fix pounders, with
small arms in proportion.
I—a THE SHIP
DIANA,
JwKa!sS|ssk Burthen a.iod barrdt of Tlour,
FhHadelphia built of live oak
r. r and csdar, is pierced for four
teen guns, itnd mounts ten new four pounders,
with small arms in proportion.
THE BRIG
AMAZON,
Buhhen 1 300 barrels of Flour,
" New-England built, has lately
been completely fitted, and may be ready for sea
in a few days.
For terms apply to
NICXLIh & GRIFFITH.
Who have for Sale
on boardfuridty •■jejfels at Mjrcvs-Kook,
1». 000 bushels of Liverpool fine fait
'l,lOO bulhelsol'coals A
186 crates of queens ware assorted
7 tierces of bottled porter
10 barrels of coleothard paint
4 do. of purple brown do.
a quantity of yellow ocre in casks
6 barrels powdered Venetian red paint
6 barrels mineral black do.
15 barrels Spanilh brown do.
35 boxes of pipes
| HAVANA SUGARS
3,5001b5. prime cochineal
3 barrels New Orleans indigo
4 puncheons Jamaica spirits
10 bales of fall asnvafs
379 sheets of copper, aliened from 48 by 24
to 60 by 48 inches .
Two tuhs raised still bottoms assorted
36 fix pound guss 4$ feet, 84cwt eaeh
14 do. 4 feet, icwt and 4lbt each
50 barrels of gun powder
6 cases Manchester cotton checks
3 trunks mufiins and (hawls
14 cases mnflinets, dimities and g'ftighamt
28 cheils coloured nankeens, mullinets, &c.
11 trunks printed calicoes
6 balss of white and coloured caflimeres
1 bale of course woollens
Englilh nails assorted.
OtJlober 47. fri.&fat. tf.
HUDSON YORKE,
NO. 54, NORTH FRONT STREET,
HAVE JU>T RECEIVED,
Per the lalt arrivals from Europe,
A VERY COMPLETE AiSORTMEN T OF
DRY GOODS,
Which they will dispose of on reafmable terms,
AMONGST WHICH ARE
SaporfiHe and coarse cloths, coalings.
Elailic and fancy do.
Caffimeres, plains, duffils
Rose and strip« blankets well assorted in small
bales
Furniture chin ties, cottons and dimeties
Lallimancoes, carmblets, durants, moreens, and
joans 1
Muilinsot all kinds
.Velvet,, velverets, thickfetts and fancy cords
An elegant assortment of ribbons
Red, white and yellow flannels
Red and green booking w.lfhriaizes
An invoice cutlery and hardware '
Cottonades. Aawh, printed handkerchiefa
7-S 4.4 xi-8 checks
9*3 5*4 cottoa flripcn
Cotton, worded and filkhofiery
do do Gloves
Threads, bindings, tape s &c. Scc.
, Do 7' ®" 4*Bt
John Millkr, junr.
If as returned to the City,
ANO IS HiVOVI-Nli k'O. 8, CHCSNUT,
To the Five Storr HuitJtng, in Dock
nrar Third fti cct.
VVlicre lsr has for Sale
250 Bales of Bengal Goods;
COMKTIH& or
ColTacs
llaftas
Maruoodies
Humhums
Calicoes
Handkerchiefj, &c. £s*r.
The remains of a Stock of
DRY GOODS,
Confjling of Woolens only,
AMBNCST THiM A*£,
Cloths
Coatings
Blankets
Kendal Cottons
liats, &c.
ALSO,
100 Hhds. of Old Ru-ra,
Of a fine flavor, 3d tf 4th proof,
nov 10 $
REMOVAL.
Geouge DOS son,
JNFORMS his frienOs and Public in general
that he has removed trom i\'o. 25 .South Third
Street, to No 92, South fide of Marlcet-ftreet, near
corner of Third Street, ;nd is piow opening
a very extcuf've t f
DRY GOODS,
SUITABLE FOR THE PRESENTbEdSON,
WHICH HE HAS JUST RECEIVED,
Per the (hips William Penn, Amiable, and Jane,
from London, uud per Chefapeak and Thomas
from Liverpool, and will b;'lotd lovr for cafli,
or approved notes at a (hort date, viz,
London 7-4 Superfine Cloths and
" Caffimeres, fafhionable colours
Yorl;9iire 7 4 do. and dp.
Mixed and plain coatings
. Welch flannels
Kerfty beav»r, for Spencers
Je~annets and Tabby cords
Velvet' asd velvetteens
Velverets and thickfetts.
7, 8, 4 4 and 118 cotvsu and hasn checks
7 8 and 4 4 bed tics
6-4 and 7-4 bed bunts
London chintz and chintz furnitures
Furniture cottons
Do. dimities
Purple and chintz Ihawli
Silk do.
Camels hair do.
Silk, cotton, and worded hose
India and British mufiins of every description
Black and white erape
Tiffany and paper fans
Hats assorted in 'small cases
Umbrellas
Peelings and futtine
Laces and edgings
Ribbands
Silk Modes
Superfine Feench dtaibrick
Cambrick jnufliiis
Do. threads
Pulicatand Madras Hajidkerchiefs,
And an elegant ajfortment of
Brussels and Wilcon Carpeting.
November 17 §
For sale by the fuhferibers,
A PEW BALES OF
WOOLENS,
Containing Cloths & Blankets,
150 bales ILngal smiflms
ao do. Madras handkerchiefs, elegant pat
terns
4o» pi«ces Ruflia (heeting
10 boxes umbrellas
a quantity of cassia
30 t®ns Peterflmag clean hemp
25 pipes, 3 years old, finett particular Ma
deira wiDe
a quantity of copper
Mor dec a i Lewis.
Nov. 26 daw
Imported
IN THE LAST ARRIVALS,
Superfine, fine and common cloths
Swandowns
Baizes
VeJvetts
Velverttts
Printed calicoes
Furniture & fancy dimities
Hair ribbands
Sewing fUk
Brussels and Persia carpetts
Buttons
For sale, for cash or credit, ly
SAMUEL IVHiRRICK.
no. 243 Arch ftrcet.
Nov. 16 51 Jan 1
LANDING,
From on board the Brig Amiable Matilda,
Richard Stitee, Master, from Cape
Nichala Mole.
23 Baits Socks and Flannel Drawers "I 03
18 Do. Gaiters ! 3 IT" p.
2 Do. Rugs J =■
1 Do. H.wre Sacks r ™ 3 "
2 Do. Flannel frowfers 3 J*
2 Do. Tents, j " 2
Also just Imported,
In the Ship Chesapeake, Captain Webk, fr#m
Liverpool,
147 Crates of Queen's Ware,
Assorted particularly to luit the Weft-India
Market—For Sale by
, Thomas iff John Ketland.
November 7 g
Now Landing,
From on board the ship Jdhn Bulketey, and
for sale at th« (lores of Jeffe & Robert
'Wain,
350,0 c o weight of Java Coffee,
of the firfl quality in bags.
150,000 weight of Java Sugar,
1 in canniders.
n °v. 23 d , f
1 Bond Sc Brooks,
I ConNt.x or Makkit and Sixth strzeis,
HstVt RECEIVED,
by the late arrivals from London, Liver
pool and Hull,
A «ARC£ AND C£NL KA L AiS.IBMEKT OF
DRY GOODS,
Which they are now opcnirg for sale, at the moll
reduced prises, for calh or the uiual credit.
A capital Stand for Business
TO LET,
That large and cominodioHs lIOVSE, no. 39,
foath Front rire;'t, direiHiy oppcli:e the i'oft-Qftier,
together with the store and cellar, on the Water
(lreet fide. Esqsire as abuvc.
nov 17
FOR SALET
A ANTITT OF
R O C O A.
ALSO—A few tales of excellent Cavennt Cotton,
fuhjed to drawba k—cnouir- of
JEHU HOLLIMGSWORTH ts" Co.
A'o. 47, Penn St ret t
nov. 14 dif
JAMAICA RUM, -~7
A Cargo noiu landing lit South Jireet tuharf,
FOR SALE BY
PETER BLIGHT,
Apply at Stores 011 the Wharf,
WHO ALSO OFIERS fuH SAI.S,
BRANDY, ift and 4th piool
Madeira and Port WIN£S, &c. &c.
Nov. 1. dtf
JuJi imported in Jhips William Penn, A
miabli and Jean,from London,
A quantity ef Cannon,fizes 4,6 & 9 lb.") with balls
Ca ronades, 12 lbs. 5 ftiitablc.
Mufquets, Mufquetoons.Cutlafles and") ®
i'iUols, for Clips use, i cl
Rifled barreled Guns, Fowling Pieces, 1 § n
and Horseman's Piflols", f .
40c ,000 Flints, chieily for muskets, in J g*
le ?s. J w
Rej uiation Light Dragoon Sabres, with Iron Scab
bards, in caicsef 50 ;-ath.
Light Cavalry Swords in Cases
Sabres, Swords and Cutiaff>s, with plated mountisg
Ironmongery and Cutlery in calks, a general af
fortmciit—For aale by
Thomas iff fno. Ketland,
Philad. October 25.
Just Arrived,
In the Brig Eliza, from the Mediterranean, and
now landing at Walnrit Street wharf,
Fourth proof Brandy in Pipes.
Erimftenc.
Anaffortment of valuable DRUGS,
CONSISTING OF
Opium, Aloes, Cantharides, Camphire, Senna,
Cremor Tartar, &c. &c.
F.ffences of Lemon rnd Bergamot
Writing paper
Sweet oil in bottles and fla&s
Olives, anchovies and capers
- —' • - —3
A L S luteftring6
Satins
Crapes
Umbrellas
Remaining on Hand,
St. Croix Sugars,
Claret in cases
Old Madeira Wino of the firfrquulity.
JAMES YARD.
November 1 5
Genteel boarding & Lodging,
IN A HiXIiHY SITUATION.
MRS. M'CREA informs her friends and the
Public, that she is prepared to accosnmo
date several Gcr'lemra, wi h genteel Boarding
land Lodging, at No. .17, Filbert ftruet.
Nov. 28 dtf
"DESERTED,
FROM the ftip ol war Delaivare, under the cOm
maud of the luUcriber, two seamen. viz.—
Franch Ca z-cnav!, a Pcrtugutle, aged 28. about |,
$ feet 6'inChts high, dark eon plexion black eyes
ami hair, speaks French and Spanish fluently, and
tolerable good Englifii. Also.
Tloi/uu Pendfrgrarti ail £nglifhman, aged 46, *-
bout 5 feet 7 inches hjgli, light hair, frefli compU*-
ion and blue eyes.
Whoever apprehends fitid deserters, and delivers
them on board any fliip of war belonging to the
United States, or lodges tlism in goal IVail receive
to dollars reward, or 10 dollars for either of them.
STEPHEN DECATUR.
. nnv. 114 i (hot
NOTICE. '': ;;
ALL persons indebted to the estate of J'AMes
Thomi*son, of the Indian Queen, fourth
fjreet doccafed. are delired to make payment to
the fubferibers—and those who have any demands
againll the said estate, are requested to fend in their
accounts duly attclled for futtlement, to
MARGARET THOMPSON, "> Adminiflratrix.
JOHN THOMPSON, / Administrator.
Mo*- *3 dim
James £sf William Miller,
ho■ 53' North Tbird Street,
Near Arch street, have the articles for
sale upon moderate terms for calh, or the
ulual credit.
Scarlet Cloths,
Low and middling quality, Mulberry and Green
ditto, White, Red, and Yellow Irish Flannels,
Blue, Green, and Mulberry half thicks. India ca
licoes, Gutrahs, Mamoodies,' Guzzines, and other
rauflins, fancy and plain cotton hose, velvets, thiije
fe'tts and fancy cords, sewing silk and twill of all
colours, ferreting, hair ribbon, coloured threads,
IridiaJJag bandanoes, and other black and colour
ed silk handkerchiefs, a variety of other cotton
do. SoUte romals, red Gilla handkerchiefs, mo
foan spinning, fullians, beavers, jeans, fa
ttrietts and royal ribbs, also mullinets and dimities,
ginghams, ladies' kid and coloured gloves; &c.
n0v.21 diut
r— 1
John Dobbin,
BOOT & SHOEMAKER.
RESPECTFULLY informs his Frisnds and i
the Public in general that he carries on bis
business at No 99 South Seeonit-Jlrect, nearly op
pofit* the Merchiiits Coffee house whtre gen
tlemen may be in the neateA and best
manner—be assures those who may pi cafe to fa
vor him with their commands that no attention
or exertion on his fvte (hall be wanting to render
him worthy of their encouragement.
N. B. Orders received will be punctually at
tended to.
November J
jV OTIC E.
ALT. Persons indebted to tli« Eftjre of doc".
Hu fc 'h Hutlgs, dctealed, arc rcqucUc-i}
to Immediate payment —and ihofc having
demiud« againlt the EAate arc dclircd to authen
ticate and j»refcnt them to.
MARI A- I/O DCS, adminifftttirix.
SAMUEL HODGDEN, admwfirator.
nov ic ft
I'o be Sold at Audtion,
TO THE Hl&H£*T DIOOIK,
On THUJiSDAIT y the isfb December next t
At the Bunch of Grape* Tavern, in BOSTON,
precikjy at I o'clock, P. M.
Two Notes of Hand,
Signed by Kelly and Clark, and indorsed by
Martin KiitfLy, Thomas Barber and James Green
leif, dated ©ecanber xB, and payable the
ift day of January, 1799, viz.
One Note for three thoufaiid fix hundred dollars,
and cue Note for four thoufind eight hundred
dollars.
Bollor, novemher 14 (i»)
~ HJk S ALE,
By Fishbourn What; ton*,
nt No. ijß Soutb.Fou.rlb-Jin.it-
China Ware,
Nankeens
Teas
Boglipores
Lutestrings,
Silk Sha\yls.
nov 1; ■ odrf
Notice is hereby Given,
'"T'HA-T uppiication will b ■ mada aj the Trea,
JL fury oi tie Urited States, for the renewal of
the following cer itic.t-s of Funded Debt, (land
ing in the name ot Robert Whitwortk, of Chelfea,
London, the (aid Certificates having been forward
ed by the (hip Ellice, Matvcy, from London for
New-York, captured by the French, andfuppofed
to be IoX.
No-11437, 6 Per Ctnt. Stock, dat.rd New-
York, 18th April, 1796, f»r Dollars. 1481,47.
No. 8171, 3 Per Cent, dated ork,
18th April for doMars 400.
' SAMUEL MILBANK.
November t8 r|6w
Notice is hereby L r i,
! That application will be made at :L»e
Bank of the United Siatcs for the renew ot
the following certificates of Ifcnk (lo.k (Uo.iing
in the name of Hodgfcn Atkinlun of 1 nndon,
which were loft from 011 board the Swallow Pac
ket, capt. Kidd, captured hy the French, and all
persons concerned art defiredto -ake r.ot-ce
No. 2424, iflued in lieu cf \ .1891,
1892. 5662 and 16640, for4(har.-g.
No. 3020 iflued in lieu of iiojc, and
11057, for 3 (hares.—7 (hares.
THOMAS M EUEN SsC Co.
Nov. ti djm
notice:
A LI persons ludebted tatheeftate of JOHN
X. bl^uKtciJiK # iate o( thu ci:y deceaied are
tcquelled to mike immediate paymait, and those
who have any demands against laid eltate ar» de
sired to render their account-, properly attested to
the fubferiber for fcffletnen*
ELEANOR SPURRIER,
Adminitliatri*.
nov ** f3t_
NOTICE,
ALL Persons having claims upon the Efhte
of James Thorburn, Stonecutter, tlcceaf.
id, are detircd to prcfent thsm for payment
and tliofe indtbted to pay their rcfpedlve baN
lances to
Benjamin W, Morrit, adminijlralcr.
nov 14
JAMES & RICHARD SMITH 7
Have this day rctutned from the country to
their STORE, No. 54, South Front flreet,
where they heve for hie, v. usual.a large and ge
neral aflbrtment of European and Eaft-lr.dia
DRT GOODS,
mo(l of which have now arrived and are landing,
from the different vedels, from Hamburgh, Loo
don, Liverpool and Hull.
Their Customers by applying will find almost
every article generally imported, a«d at as low
prices for calh or credit,as they can te had else
where.
N. B. A few Cases of Nurenbergh TOYS, a
coflfignmtnt, to be fold by the cafe only.
Philadelphia, Mov. 1, 1798. dtf
iViillenery Room,
No. 136, Marie/ Street.
'"FTfP.EE or fouY young women who are well ac-
X quaimed with the Millrnery business, and
can bring good recommendations may be employ
ed... y applying as above to
D. CHRYSTAL.
Nov. >6 ,
Englilh wrought Nails.
Imparted in the Jhips Molly and Diana, from
LIVERPOOL.
400 Calks of Nails,
CONSISTING of 6d, Bd, lod, nd, and
2od, flat points suitable for tke southern
market—6d, Bd, jod, lad, and iod, finedrawn
fbarps—alfo 2, 3, 4, and 6 clo its —fprigs—
tucks—feupper nails—(heathn-g nails,
FOR SALE BY,
Robert Denifon, junr,
l»7 Market-dreet.
For Sale,at the Stores of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut ftrect Wharf,
calks of nail* aflprted
»o bales ef fail eanvafs, from No. 1 to 2
S3 calks yellovf ochre
15 tierces bottled porter, 6to 14 doz. eacli
London particular ) , . ...
India market ] Madeira Wines
Tenenfledo. in and pip
Old Port do. in hhdi.
Empty Claret bottles
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimrfies, Muflineti &e.
alTorted for the Weft-India market
4> 10, andg inch cablesand 10 coils of cords-'e
Writing Dates, ink (lauds and preflet
>o puncheons Jamaica rum
I bale feamin; twine
160 bundles flieathing paper
Nici/in & Griffith.
»?«•'! 7 tbtii&rtt%ljt <pasette*
PHILADELPHIA,
■ ;jr
SA3K7RDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 8.
The Speaker and most of the members,
of the house of representatives of United
States, waited on Major General Pinckney
this forenoon, at his quarters in third-street,
to offer him the hortlage of their affeftion
and approbation. •
Intended to be launched this day at liigh
wiiter, at Point Pleafunt, near Kensington.
The merchant (hip Nadir of three hundred
and twenty-tons, (hipwrights tonnage, pierc
ed for twenty guns on her upper deck, built
by Joseph Grice, for Messrs. Philips, Cram
ond Sc Go. of this city. In point of Work
nian(hip and elegance, this (hip is allowed by
good judges, to be equal to any (hip of her
dimenuons ever built in this port.
Arrived, ship Favorite, from Liverpool,
1< ft there the 6th Odlober—-brings nothing
new.
TRRATUM.
i he addrefsrfrom a body of Milita.
the I refioeni's Anfwcr to which was pub
lished in the Gazette of yesterday, came
from \ irginia, and not Vermont.
©P this SDap'S Q9ail.
NEW-LONDON, December 3.
On Saturday arrived here the (hip Mary
ann, capt. Benj. Par!;, 51 days from Mala
ga, bound to New-York. Mr. Benj. Mum
ford, supercargo, of the (hip, has politely
favored us with the Copy of an intejeepted
letter written by a French officer who was 011
(hoie at Rofctta, and law the naval combat
which will render the name of Nelson, fa
mous in the annuls of the world. We havfc
also received in manuscript, the fcnie account
of the adi o n which is published in this day's
Oracle under Baltimore head.
Liberty, Equality.
Rofetta in Egypt, 17lb Tbermider, Jixih year
oj the French Republic—or 3 tugujl 1798.
I rom E. Rouffietgue, Comptroller General
ct the expences of the Eastern Army, and
Administrator General of the Finances.
" We have just witness niy dear
friend, to a Naval Combat, the most bloody
and unfortunate, that for many ages has ta
ken) I ice :—As yet we know not all the'
circnmftancts, but those 'we are acquainted
w'lth are frightful in the extreme ; the French
fcjuadron confifling of thirteen fail of the
line, one of which was a three decker of
120 guns, and three 80 gun (hips, were an
chored in line ofbattle, in the Bay of Abuck
ar or C.irroffa, the only one that exiftsin all
the roast of Egypt, for these eight days past
leveral fliipi -.i.J i't r> to the
Ehglilli, have at ditfereiu times been recon
noitering the polition of our fleet, so that
we. were in momentaiy expectation of being
attacked. »
" In a direst line from Abuckar to Ro.
letta, the distance is about four leagues and
half, from the heighth of tlie latter bur fleet
isperfeftly seen and distinguished, the 14th
of this month at half past five o'clock in the
evening we heard the firing of cannon, this
was the commencement of the battle ! we
immediately got up the Tenaces, the tops
of the highest houses and little eminences,
from whence we plainly distinguished re 11
En-lifh fail of the line, the others we
not lee ; the cannonading was very heavy
until about a quarter of nine o'clock, when
favored by the night we perceived an im
meitfe light, which announced to us that
some Ihip was on fire, the thunder of cannon
was heard with re-doubled fury, and the (hip
on fire blew up, with the most dreadful ex
piotio'i which was heard at Rofetta, in the
, Tame planner as the explosion of the Ganelle,.
wj.s heard at Paris when this accident hap
pened, the 1110 ft profound silence took place"
for the (pace of about ten minutes, from
the moment of the explosion, until our hear
ing it might' take up about two ; the
firing commenced again, and continued
without intermiifion until three o'clock
the morning, when it ceased almost entire
ly until five, when it commenced again with j
hs great vivacity as ever. I placed myfelf on
a tower, which is about a cannon (hot from
Rofetta, and which is ciflled Maudou, from
thence I could plainly fee the whole battle ;
at 8 o'clock I perceived a (hip on fire and in
about half an hour blew up similar to that last
night ; a (hip which until the moment of the
explolion was not perceived to be on (ire at
all. The other (hips moved to a greater dis
tance from the (hore, and the fire on board
her (apparently dismasted) by which we pre
sume that it was entirely diftinguiflied ; dur
ing this time the canonading redoubled ; a
a large (hip entirely dismasted was on (hore
coaft, I perceived others amongst the
fleet in similar manner dismasted, but the two
squadrons were so mingled amongst each other
that it was impossible to diftingui(h French
from Euglilh, nor on (hore whose fide the
advantage was.
-The firing continued with unavailing vi
vafity until about two o'clock after mid-day
of the 15th, at this hour we perceived two
fail of the line and two frigates under a press
of fail on a wind (landing to the eastward,
we perceived tbe whole four were under
French colours, no qther vefftl made any
movenenf, and the firing ceased entirely ;
towards fix o'clock in (he evening I return
ed to the tower about Mendau to reconnoi
tre pofition of the two fleets, it was the
fame as at 2 o'clock, the four (hips were a
breft of the mouth of the Nile.
'' We knew not to think or conjec
ture ; twenty-four ftours puffed without hav
ing any pyfon to gUe us any detail; in our
situation it wus impoCible to proceed any
ways by land oil of the- Arabs, •who
were assembled betweetl Rofetta and Abackar,
and by lea, on account of the difficulty in
getting out of the flailing of the branch of
the Nile. You nv.iy judge of our impatience
and perplexity 1 nothing good c.:uld be ac
quired from this Situation, however we were
obliged to pass tlie whole t>f this night in
j uncertainty: At lift in the morning of tlie
16th a boat which left Alexandria in the
night, gave us some detail though little tend
ing toourcoiufort. They told us that the
ofticersff the French fleet, who escaped in a
boat to Alexandria, had reported that in the
commencement of tlie battle, Admiral Bruyts
had yeceivtd three fevcre wounds, one in the
ijead and<wo in the body, that notwithftano
ing he persisted in keeping his station on the
arms cljefl, and that a fourth (hot took him
in the body and Cut him in two ! At the fame
momeUt a (hot took off Cafabianea ; that at
this time they perceived the (hip to be on (ire
in such a mannneras not to be able to extin
guish it, and at last that the (hip had blown
up at about j o'clooj at night ; they added
that our fleet was totally destroyed and loft,
with the exception of four ships escaped, but
that the remainder were totally ruined.
" I returned to the tower, where I found
things entirely in the fame situation as yester
day ; they were so even yesterday night and
this morning. I have now to fay how they
appeared from the Castle of Abuckar on the
left, sweeping the horizon to the right.
" 4 (hips were without masts, and under
Engli(h colours.
" jth and 6th are in good state, but cannot
distinguish thdir colours.
" The 4th has loft her mainmast, this morn
ing (he hoisted her foremoft (lay-fail, and fes
some after fail.
7th is without tap-gallant mill.
" isth is dismasted.
" 9th is dismasted with the exception of
her bowsprit.
" 10th nth 12th and 13th, form a kind
of groupe, having only seven mads between
them.
" 14th has only her fore mast.
" jSA has loft her fore-mail and mizen
top gallent.maft.
" 16th is entirely dismasted.
" 17th has lofthermisren-top-gallant-maft.
" 18th has loft her sore-mast.
" 19th zotk aud 21 ft, form a groupe ha
ving only four masts beween them* „
•' 22d is entirely eifmafted and onTlidre,
(he has English colours up, the the people
on board ot her are trying,to get heir afloat,
and to raise her masts.
" 23d i» in good date.
" This is all I can distinguish from which
results, that altho' the English have had the
advantage, they have been roughly handled
fioce they could not follow the vefTels that
went away on the ijth, for those two days
their (hips have been perfe&ly inactive and
feemiugly destroyed.
" This morning news has been brought
from Alexandria which confirms our losses.
Rear Admiral DiA-elh is killed, also Vice
Admiral BUnchquee Duc'naide ; five (hips
h**e struck their colours, the Le Taunant
was the last (hip in aflion, Deputilrr
commacaed her had hit two legg* (hot oft
by a cannon (hot ; the (hips that escaped are ,
the Le Guillaume Tell, and the Le Gene
reaux, with the Frigates Le Diane, and Le
Juflice : they fay it was the L'Artiuiefe,
that blew up yesterday morning, many things
relative to the battle we are still to learn
• they fay that the Englifn Admiral hat sent
a flag of truce tQ Alexandria, demanding
that they should receive and take charge of
the wounded, which to 1500,
they will fend us all our prisoners, (as yet I
am ignorant of what has been decided up
on.)
" You will receive in France the Official
account of us sad of the Engti(h, I know not
what they will fay, but you may rely on
what I have written, because it is what I
have seen , communicate my letter to citizen
Co van is, his son who ought to have given
this account is by me otherwise employed."
CajSt. EHgcrton, who arrived on Friday
in 42 days from Hambnrgh, has obligingly
loaned us Hamburgh paper to October 12 th
which also contain circumftantial,details of
Nelson's viftory.
Mi ss Broadhurst
RESPECTFULLY informs her friends and the
public that flie intends having
ACONC E R T,
on Tuesday next, at O'Eller'! Hotel,
fART ift.
Overture,
Song,—Etlcn arise, Mis« Broadhurft
Qu.rtctt*, r
Song, Mr. Darley
Duett, Violin & Claronet, Meffr». Collet, and
Dubois
Italion Song,—Si non piange, Miss Broadhurft
Glee,-three voice*—Lullaby.
part id.
Overture,
Song,—" The New Somebody," [corapofed
by B. Carr) Miss Broadhurft
Sonata, Piano Forte, Mr. B. Carr
Song, Mr. Darley
Concerto, Clarinitt, Mr. Dubois
New Song, (the Flower Girl)Mifs Broadhurft
Glee, three voices—Sigh no more Ladies.
To begin at seven o'clock.
Tickets one Dollar each to be had at Carr's Mu
sical Repository, Market-ftreet—O'Eller'• Hotel,
and of Mi£> Broadhurl), No. 179 Areh-ftreet.
dee. 7 l4t
For Sale,
4j Boxes Havanna Sugar
56 Hhdi. St Croix do ( Entitled to
ji Bag? Carracai Cocoa ( |Drawback.
XJ Hhdi. Coffee J
RUNDLE y LEECH,
No. 9, Walnut-ftrtet.
dec 3 d«w
FOR SALE
| By the Sub/criberSy
I ON Via Y LOW TI RMS
WAX CANDLES,
Of A SIIPiAtOA QUALITV,
Either by the (ingle box of 24lbs. or by the quan
tity.
Writings & Francis•
EOT. 24
From Ihe Massachusetts Mercury, j
MefTrs. Yovnc & Minns, 1
HAVING accidentally met with th£ j
following in a scrap of an old paper, I hai>d <
it to you .fur publication. Jt contains the ]
opinion of Franklin on thetieatment of to- j
vies, and establishment of political focicties.
Your readers will perceive that he does not
agrre with our jacobins. What flrange and
palpable obstinacy-is it that induces this
elafs to di (regard the opinions of all fcnfibl:
men—and adhere arrogantly to their own |
curious principles ? It is very natural cer
tainly to fufpeft they fin against their own
confidences ; that thty do not a& as they
think.
Yr's. CANDOUR.
ExtraS of a letter, dated Paris, Sept. ID,
1783, Jlgned E. Franklin, isfc.
" We think we may rely on his (Mr.
Hartley) doing every thing in bis power to
influence his court, to do what they ought
to do ; but it does not appear they have as
yet formed any fettled fyltem for their con
duit relative to the United States. We can
rot but think that the late, and present af
pt& of affairs in ytmrrica, has had, and
continues to have ar. unfavorable etfeift, not
only in Britain, but thro' Europe. Inwlnt
ever light the article refpefting the tories,
may be received in America ; it is consider
ed in Europe, as very humiliating to Britain,
and therefore one which we ought in honor
to perform and fulfil, with the mod scrupu
lous regard rnd good faith, and 111 a manner
leajl ojfencive to the feelings of the king and
court of Great Britain, who upon that point
are extremely tender. The unreasonable and
unnecessary resolves of various to<tins, ou this
fubjedl, the acfhial expulfinn of tories from
some places, and the avowed implacability of
almost all who have published their senti
ments about the matter, are circumstances
which are conjlrued to the prejudice of our
government. Popular committees are consi
dered here as with us, in the light of fub
flitutes to conjlitutional government, and as
being only necsfTary in the interval between
the removal of the former and the ejlablijh
ment of the present. The conflitutions of
the different States have been translated and
published, and pains have been taken to
lsad Europe to believe, that the American
States, not only made their own laws, but
obeyed them ; but the continuance of popu
lar ajimilies, convened expressly to delibe
rate on matters proper only for the cogni
zance of the different legifixtures and officers
of government, and their proceeding, not on
ly to ordain, but enforce their resolutions, has
exceedingly lessened the dignity of the
States in the eyes of these nations."
Newpost, (R. I.) Dec. 1.
By an arrival from New-Providence, we have
received papers to the 13th ult.—Extra&s
follow.
NASSAU, September aJ.
Since our last, the following captured-and
detained VefTels have arrived here :
Spanish Pol acre Francisco de Paulo, from
Campeachy for Havanna, Prize to the Hero,
Cockburn.
American Brig Swift, Sweflin, Brig Ge
neral Marshall, alias, Ready Money,
and Schooner Hannah, all from Balti
more for Havanna, brought in by the Lark,
Tucker, under suspicion of having Enemy s
property on board.
Hamburgh Bark Peter and Wilfielm, from
Havanna for Hamburgh, sent in by the
Plover, Newten, under suspicion. of having
Enemy's property on board.
The American Schooner Neptune, Hitch
cock, which left New-York for this Port
the 7th of this month, on the 21 ft at sunset,
got clear of Abaco, and while fleering under
a very easy fail for this Port, at 11 o'clock
the fame evening, the wind blowing frefh
from E. by N. (truck on the Samphire Reef
n.-ar Eleuthera. The Veflel is stranded..
Confide ruble part of the Cargo, confiding of
Horses, Cattle, See. is saved.
Bahama Illands, New-Providence.
BRIGANTINE HOPE.
Whereas his Worship the Judge of the
Court of Vice Admiralty for the Bahama
illands did, by a Decree under his Hand,
and the seal of the said Court, bearing date
the 3d of August, .1798, made and given in
a certain cause, intitled, " Stirrup of the
Antelope, and Thurfton of the Collin, a
ijainft the Brigantine Hope and Cargo," (a
inongft other things therein contained) ad
judge and direst, that the Brigantine Hope,.
which appears to have been a Bermuda built
veflel, and was some time lince taken by a
French Privateer and carried into Charleston,
where she was fold without having been
condemned in any Court of Admiralty hav
ing competent Jurifdidion, anc( which was
lately taken by the private veflels of War the
Antelope, Collin, and others, (hould be fold'
at public auction, and after paying to the
Captors one sixth part thereof, clear of all
deductions as' Salvage and all Expences, the
Nett Proceeds thereof be lodged in the Re
gistry of the said Court of Vice Admiralty :
Notice is hereby given, that the said Brigan
tine Hope has been fold in Pursuance of the
said Decree, at Public Auction, for the Sum
of One Thousand Two Hundred Pounds Cur
rency, and after deducing One sixth Part
thereof paid to the Captors as Salvage, and
Commiilions and other incidental Expences
on the Sale thereof, the Nett Proceeds a
mounting to the Sum of Nine Hundred and
Forty One Pounds and Eighteen Shillings,
have been lodged in the Registry of the said
Court ; in order that such perlbn or persons
as was or were the owner or owners, or had
any right, title or interest of, in, or to the
said Brigantine Hope, at the time she was
taken by a French Privateer and carried into
Charleston, and fold as aforefaid, may come
and appear before his worship the Judge of
said Couft of Vice Admiralty for the Baha
ma I (lands, within 1 hree Months'from the
Date hereof, and make known his or thiir
Claim accordingly, and receive the benefit of
the Recapture;
SLATER U LORD,
Agents for the Captors.
... O&oher 12.
The (hip Pieter & Wilhelm, of Ham
burgh, Lutji Pcterfon, matter, on her voy
age from Havanna to Hariiburg, was cap
tured by the privateer Plover, and sent into
this port under suspicion of having enemy's
property on board. Upon examination, it
nppeafed to the fatisfa&ioti of the captors,
that both veflel and cargo were neutral pro
perty The damages sustained froffl the
capture were therefore fubmitied to the de
cision of mere tan t s chosen for that purp'ofe
by the agents for the captors and the inaf
j ter of the Ship ; who awarded the sum of
' 3801 to the Master, exclusive of port char
ges. The fh!p proceeded on her voyage on
WeJnefday.
The following particulars refpefting the
late a&ion between the Hero Privateer,
Capt. Cockburn, and some Spanish VefTels
of War. areextratfed from a Journal of one
of the Hero's Officers.
Saturday, July 21, Toro Castle S. S. E.
distant 2 leagues, light wind ftom E. N.-E.
at 3 p. m. shortened fail. Next morning at
5 o'clock, saw seven fail to the eailward. |
Made fail and gave chace.
At 10 a large rmed carrying Spa- f
nidi king's Colours, bore down fro the ;
fleet on us, fired three guns, and then t aul- ;
edhtrwid. At 1 P. M. brought to a
Sf anifli merchant ship, took psfLSian, put
ting on board a prize mattfr and seven men.
From the hurry occasioned 1) attending to
a Spanifti brig that had a!fo surrendered,
and the armed brig coming down apa n on
119. had not t me to remove the prisoners
from the ship. A close aftign commenced
between the brig and us, which continued
for neatly two hours, when the enemy
struck. A ship cf the line, and> two armed
brigs, all carrying Spanish colours, were
now approaching very near, which on the
fmokc clearing away. Sting seen by the
people of the brig that had struck, they
made all fail, and got off. At 5 P.M.
fpske our prize ship, and ordered her to
make all fail. Bore down on an armed brig
at l'omc distance from the rell, got up with
and engaged her for upwards of half an hour,
when the near approach of the two decker,
and another brig, who fired several (hot o
vcr us, compelled us to make off. During
this day's severe bufmefs, we had one sea
man killed, lieutenants Celly and Slaten
and seven seamen wounded Both the brigs
'we engaged were of superior force to the
Hero, she carrying 16 fix pounders and 77
men ; one of the Spanish brigs carried 20
guns, the other 18. and both appeared full
of meu.
The brig General.Capal, Lennon, a Bri
tish Lettt r of Marque, from Philadelphia
to Martintjue, in lat. 22. 17. on the 18th
of August last, early in the morning upset
in a squall. A French gentleman pafTenger
and two featnen were drowned in the vessel.
The reft of the people, 23 in number, in
cluding two pafl? tigers, got on the larboard
fide, and remained there for half an hour,
the nails giving way, the vefTell right
ed. They then cut away two boats, got a
few provisions, and formed a raft of foaie
spars. The captain and five others went in
the smallest, the r«ft in the other boat and
on the raft. The firft boat disappeared the
next day. The boat, attached to the raft,
left it, after its being determined by lot
which five should remain on it, the boat be
ing too ftnall to carry all. This boat got
to Abacq, 22 days after, during which
time one olf the people died, and thi-y were
twelve days without prpvifions. The se
cond mate James Jones, died at Abaco
Three of the survivors rambled from the reft
on that island ; the others have been bro't
here by one of the Harbour Island veflels.
BOSTON, December 1.
GERMAN TRANSLATIONS.
•
TRANSLATED,
From " The Ai.tona Mercury," for*
the Columbian Centinel.
Raousa, (in Dalmatia) Aug. 18.
On the 14th inft. a French Corvette an
chored here, the captain of which at firft ap
peared very friendly and wished to fraternize
with us, as fellow-republicans ; but soon af
ter, he demanded, in the name of the French
Commander in Chief of the Roman army, a
loan of one hundred andfixty thousand dol
lars, to secure the payment of which, he of
fered to the Republic, the iiland of Corfu,
[in the rnoulh of the Adriatic, formerly be
longing to Venice.] This loan, itisfear&d,
cannot be refitted' ; but the Republic has made
a representation. on the fubjeft, tq the Grand
Seignor, as the protedlor of the-Republic,
and waits its decision.
Constantinople, Aug. 12.
Advices have been received from Cairo, of,
the date of the 28th of .July. [lt will be re
membered, that in the French official Note
to the council of five hundred, it was men
tioned, that Buonaparte entered Cairo, the
23d of July.] The French troops were at
tacked before Cairo, by a horde of Arabs ;
who killed and wounded eight thousand, and
took two thculaud of the French ; and were
further menaced by a latge body of Mame
lukes. We further learn, that the French
Consul in Cairo, and his suite been ar
retted.
ICT* This news is from good authority,
but the i irKs are in the habit of exaggerat
ing their viftones. [Note of the Alton*
Editor.]
VI ENNA, SFPT. 5.
Il is now '|flcrted that Prince Repnin
will not have the command of the Ruffian
army, which is on its march, but that the
commaui will be given to Prince Ferdinand
of Wurtemburg. The Adjutant General
of his Imperial Majesty, baron Vincent has
beeti sent tcf meet tlie Ruffian troops, and
accompany tliem through the Atiflriun he
reditary dates. At the fame time a confw
derable Ruffian corps, under the command
of field marlhal Suwarrow will march into
Turkey to restore tranquility there ; while
another ara y. of Ruffians, in conjunction
with the ThHj,s, will be employed against
Buonaparte.
"Our Hamburg papers by the arrival thi*
week, contain official accounts, v a. Con
stantinople, of the arrival at the Island of
Rhodes, of four French ihips, after the de
feat of Breuyes, in Rofetta Bay ; —which
were immediately feiied and declared lawful
prize by the Pacha, in consequence of or
der* fro in the Sublime Porte. \ThefeJhips ,
•we iniagirte were the William "Tell, n ar.d the
Genereaux, of 74 guns, the Diana of 48. and
La JuJlice, of 44 guns, -which efcapedfom
the naumachy ot the mouth of the Nile J We
mult do jultice to the authenticity of Ger
man newspapers;
LO'Nij'ON, October z.
The French Dirf<£tory arc hid to have
made propositions to Russia and Austria, to
cffe£t the co'.qucft ot the Turkish Empire,
and divide it between the three nations. If'
1 his be acceded to, the long- projected revo
lution of Spain lYto be achieved, without'
dJay, by g.nefal An;;ereau, whole head
quarters art now at P;vpigoa«, who is ;Iy
waiting for the c bclulion of peace with
Germany tr enter the Sp.-nifk" territory.
During the abfeuce of the irettor Rew
beli, at Piombieres. Barras" is said to ha\C
dcte&ed a plot, the < bjc£t of which was to
lend him and his afloci "te La Reveillere
Lepaux to Cayenne, to declare the three
■ lawyers, Re* bell, Merlin, and Trtilhard,
perpetual Dictator? until a gcnCVai peace,
and to suspend the operation i f the cunfli
tution, and confequemly to d.'finifs the
Councils during the war. This ditcuvery,
it is it-ported, lias made a great noift in the
Directorial circles at P-jris, and r.as accele
rated the return'of Rcwbell. although i's
health is not perfectly re-t;ftablilhed Tal
lerand a d Ramel (the minister of France)
are stated to have b<-en inserted in the lilt
of intended proscription. Barras, affilted
by Buonaparte (brother to the general) it
reported to have gained 1 ver the* two
councils ; a-.d a new and fecious (truggle
between the contending tadtijus is expedted
soon to take place.
The Swiss inhabitants who had perfuted
in refufing to take the oaths required by the
the new rul%g pow r, and had armed in
their own defeucp, were defeated on the
9th ultimo, with great (laughter The bat
tle was ©bflinately contested, and lasted from
5 o'clock in the morning ttll 6 in the even
ing.
• -v'.r • + » «
NEW-YORK. December 5.
ExtraS of a letter from Messrs Shaw & Co.
at Cadiz, dated Sept. 18, '9B.
" Admiral Earl St. Vincent, who ba< f
long cut off every foreign communicztio
with this port, has juit iignified his retail;
tion to admit tlie free ingress and egress c
the trade of the United States to and froi
this city."
[The a ! 'ova extradt we received from
Merc.mtle Hotife of the firll refpedlabilitj,
and may therefore be depended upon J
WAftPOLE, Nov. 19.
It that the feme.and virtue? of
Walhi/igt.on are the theme 1 f the. world's pa
negyriij. Among other honorable tefkrmo
uies, We find that of Count Alfieri, a noble
Piedmontefe, and sublime dramatic writer*
whorrutiU' just tails of his countrymen has
saluted with the appellation of " the Shakef
peire of 7 tfcly." This dignified and admira
ble author thus dedicates his tragedy of
" Junius Brutus." " The name of him
■alone, who gave liberty to America, can sanc
tion tlie trage fy of the delivarer of Rome.
To you, therefore, a citizen of Angular for
tune and desert, I dedicate Junius Brutlis,
without reciting the praises due to you, for
they are all included in your name. So brief
■a mention of you ought not to be deemed in
direct adulation. I am personally unacquaint
ed with you ; and divided, as we are, by the
immense ocean, we have but one motive im
mediately in common—the love of our coun
try. Truly happy are you, who have eftab
lifiied a tame, l'uch as yours, on a basis firm
and eternal ; the love of your country prov
ed by your adtions. For myfelf, I have aban
doned iliy native foil, purely for the fake of
writing with ardor on the fubjedfc of liberty.
By such a facrifice, I flatter myfelf I have
demenftrated what my patriotism would have
proved, had I been destined to a country,
worthy of my sentiments. On this conside
ration alone, I efpire to the honor of uniting
■"-J the name of Washingtgn that of Vit
torio Alfieri."
oa3ette sparine ftift
Port of Philadelphia.
ARRIVED,
Brig Fame, Thomas, St- Croix, 26
Enterprize, Longdon, Jamiaca, 49
Schooler Fanny Allen, Virginia, J
Sloop Rising Sun, Addifon, Virginia, 12
At the Point, lalt evening,
Ship India, Afhmead, Ille of France, HO
British Letter of Marque Favorite, ■»
Liverpool, 4$
The Iris, T. Nelson, of Baltimore, for
Liverpopl ; Polafki, Shoemaker, of »oi
for New-York ; Washington, Foster. of
Baltimore, for Liverpool ; Paulina, Free
man, of Biddeford, for Philadelphia
failed from Hamburg in company with th«
Hope, arrived at New? London the 30 ult.
! i» 42 days.
1 Left at Hamburg, brig James, Gemrr.e
ny, to fail 19 Oft. for Phila. John 8c ]"f
eph, Clark, for Baltimore, in 30 days- 4
Friends, Hubbard, for Phila, 13 days; brig
George, M'Call, for ditto ; brig Betsey,
Chat field, for Baltimore, in 4 days —and a
: number of others.%\)t <sa;ette.
'PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY SVENING, DECEMBER 8.
This Day, at 12 o'clock, The President
of the United St at es niet both Houses of
in the Representatives' Chamber,
and delivered the following Speech :
Gentlemen of the Senate and
Gentlemen of theHeufe Of Representatives,
While with reverence and re- 1
fignation we contemplate the dispensa
tions of Divine Providence, in the alarm
ing and deftruftive pestilence, with
which, fcveraf of our cities and towns
have been visited, therc # is cause for
gratitude and mutual congratulations,
that the malady has dl(appeared and
that we are 2gr.in permitted to aiTem
ble in fafety, at the Seat of Govern
ment, for the discharge of our import
ant duties. But when we reflect that
this fataldiforder has within a few years
made repeated ravages in some of our
principal sea ports, and with increased
malignancy, and when we consider the
' magnitude of the evils, arising from the
interruption of public and private bu
siness, whereby the National Interests are
deeply affefted ; I think it my duty to
invite the Legislature of the Union to
examine the expediency of establishing
suitable regulations, in aid of the health
laws of the refpeftivc States ; for these
being formed on the idea, that contagi
ous iicknefs may be communicatee] thro'
the channels of commerce, there seems
to be a neceflity, that Congress, who
atone can regulate trade, should frame
a system, which, while it may tend to
preserve the General Health, may be
compatible with the interests of commence
and the fafety of the revenue.
While we think on this calamity and
sympathize with the immediate fuffer
ers, we have abundant reason to present
to the Supreme Being our annual obla
tions of gratitude for a liberal participa
tion in the ordinary bleffirtgs of his pro
vidence. To the usual fubjefts of grati
tude, I cannot omit to add one of the
firft importance to our well being and
• fafety : t I mean that spirit which has a
risen in our country, against the menaces
and aggrefiion of a Foreign Nation.—
A manly sense of National Honor, Dig
nity, and Independence has appeared,
which if encouraged and invigorated by
every branch of the Government, will
enable us to view undismayed, the en
terprizes of any Foreign Power, and be
come the sure foundation of national
prosperity and glory.
The course of the translations in re
lation to the United States '.id France,
which have come to my knowledge du
ring your recess, will be made the fubjeft
of a future communication.' That com
munication will confirm the ultimate
failure of the measures which have been
.taken by the Government of the United
States towards an amicable adjustment
of differences with that Power. You
will at the fame time perceive, that the
French Government appears solicitous I
to impress the*opinion, that it is averse
to a rupture with this country, and that
it has in a qualified mannfcr, declared it
felf willing to receive a Minister from
the United States, for the purpose of res
toring a good understanding. It is un
"fortunate for profeffions of this kind,
that they should be exprefled in terms,
which may countenance the inadmissible
pretension of a right to prescribe the
qualifications which a Minister from the
"United States should possess, and that
while France is asserting the existence of
a disposition on her part to conciliate
with sincerity the differences which have
arisen, the lincerity of a like disposition
on the part of the United States, of which
so many demonstrative proofs have been
given, should even be indireftly question
ed. It is also worthy of observation
that the decree of the Direftosy alledged
to be intended to restrain the depreda
tions of French eruifers on our com
merce, has not given and cannot give
any relief-, it enjoins them to conform
to all the law* of France relative to cruiz
ing and prizes, while these laws are,
themselves the sources of thedepredations
of which we have Jo long, so justly and
so fruitlefsly complained.
The law of France enafted in Ja
nuary la ft, which fubjefts to capture and 1
condemnation neutral vefiels and their
cargoes, if any portion of the latter are 1
of Britlfh fabric or produce, although t
*
%"
•
the entire p; an cttf belong so neutrals,
instead of being rescinded, has lately re
ceived a confirmation, by the failure of
a proposition for its repeal. While this
law, which is an unequivocal aft of war
on the commerce of the r:\tions it at
tacks, continues in force, tbofe nations
can fee in the French Government only
a power, regardless of their eflential
rights, of their Independence and Sov
,T' ereigntv, and if they poflefs the means, •
they can reconcile nothing with their in
-r, tereft and honor, but a firm refiftmce.
Hitherto therefore nothing is dif-'
coverable in 'the conduct of France,
, r which ought to change or relax our rnea
' fures of defence—on the contrary to'ex
e- tend and invigorate them is our true po
a- licy. We have no reason to regret, that
n- these measures have been thus far adop
ih ted and pursued, and in proportion as
ns we enlarge cur view of the portentous
or and incalculable situation of Europe, we
is, shall discover new and cogent motives
id for the full devejopement* of our energies v
a- and resources.
n- But in demonstrating by our conduit
t- that we do not fear war in the necefiary
at proteftion of our rights; and honor, we
rs shall give no room to infer that we a
ur bandon the desire of peace. An efficient
;d preparation for war em alone insure
ie peace. •It is peace that we have uni
ic formfy and perfeveringly cultivated, j
u- and harmony between us and France
re may be restored at her option.—.
to But to fend another minister, with
to out more determinate afluranccs that
ig he would be received, would b.e an aft of,
th humiliation, to which the United States ,
fe ought not to submit. It must therefore j
;i- be left to France, if 1 she is indeed defir
o' ous of accommodation, to take the re
ns quifite steps. The United States will
10 steadily observe the maxims by which
ne they have hitherto been governed. They
to will refpeft the sacred rights of Embassy.
be And with a sincere difpofition'on the
ce part of France.t© desist from hostility, to
make reparation for the injuries hereto
id fore inflicted on our commerce, and to
r- do justice in future, there will be no ob
it ftacle to the restoration of a friendly in
-- tercourfe. In making to you this de
a- claration I give a pledge to France and
3- the world that the Executive authority
i- of this country still adheres to the hu
ie mane and pacific policy which has inva
d riably governed its proceedings in confor
i- mity with the wishes of the other bran
is ches of the government and of the peo
— pie of the United States. But confi
-- dering the late manifeftations of her po
i, licy towards foreign nations, I deem it a
>y duty deliberately and solemnly to de
ill clare my opinion, that whether we ne
-- gotiate with her or not, vigorous prepar
e- ations for war will be alike indifpcnfible.
al These alone will give to us an tqual trea- >
ty, and ensure its observance.
e- Amonc the measures of preparation,
e, which appear expedient, I take the liber
u- ty to recall your attention to the Naval
ft establishment. The beneficial effefts
of the small naval armament, provided
te under the acts of the last session, are
:n known and acknowledged.—Perhaps no
:d country ever experienced more sudden
at and remarkable advantages from any
>u measure 0/ policy, than we have derived
ie from the arming for our maritime protec
is tion and defence. We ought, without
fe loss of time, to lay the foundation for an
it encreafe of our navy to a size fufficient
t- to guard our co&ft and protest our trade,
n Such a naval force, as it is doubtless in
f- the power of the Uijited States to create
1- and maintain, would also afford to them
1, the best means of general defence, by fa
s, cilitating the fa fe transportation of troops
e and stores to every part of our extensive
e coast. To accomplish this important ob
e jest, a prudent forefight requires that
it systematical measures be adopted for pro
>f curing at all times, the requiffte timber
e and other supplies. In what manner
e this shall be done I leave to your confi
n deration,
h I will now advert, gentlemen, to
n some matters of'lefs moment, but proper
1- to be communicated to the National ,
n Legislature.
d After the Spanish garrisons had e- ,
1- vacuated the posts they occupied at the
i- Natchez and Walnut Hills, the Com- ,
' e miflioner of the United States com- L
n menced his observations, to ascertain the ,
P°' nt near the Miffiflippi, which termi- ]
natedthenorthernmoft part ofthe thirty- ,
is firft degree of north latitude. From ]
d thence he proceeded to run the bounda
ry line between the United States and |
t- Spain. He was afterwards joined by ,
d the Spanish Comirmfioner. when tjie -
r work of the former was confirmed ; and j
e they proceeded together to the demarka- '
1 tion of the line. Recent information ren- <
'I
.»
~ deri it probable,thai the Southern Indians,
either instigated to oppose the dcmarka
>f tion, or jealous of the consequences of
Is differing white people to run a line over
r lands, to which the Indian title had not
:- been extinguished, have, ere this time,
is flopped the progress of the Commiffion
y ers. And considering the mifchiefs
il which may result from continuing the
- demarkation, in opposition to the will of
!, * the Indian tribes, the great expense at
-! tending it, and that the boundaries
| which the Commiffior.ers have actually
• eftablifhcd, probably extend at least as
I far as the Indian title has been extin
i- guifhed, it will perhaps become expe
dient and neceflary to suspend further
i- proceedings by recalling our Commif
tt fioner.
The Commissioners appointed in pur
,s fuance of the fifth article of the treaty
s of amity, commerce and navigation, be
e tween the' United States and hi; 13ritan
s nic Majesty, to determine what river was
s _ truly intended underjthe name of the ri
ver St. Croix, mentioned ia jthe Treaty
It of Peace, and forming a part of the boun
y dary therein described, have finally de
e cided that qucftion. One the twenty
- fifth of October, they made their declar
t ation that a river called Scodiac, which
e falls into Pafi'amaquoddy Cay, at its
- north-western quarter, was the true St.
L,: Croix intended in the Treaty of Peace,
e as far as its great fork, where one of its
- i streams comes from the westward and
- the other from the northward, and that
it the latter stream is the continuation of
if, the St. Croix to its source, This deci
:s | fion, it is tinderflood, will preclude all
e 1 contention among individual claimants,
- as it seems that the Schorftliac and its
- northern branch,, bound the grants of
[1 lands which have been made by the re
ti fpeiStive adjoining governments. A fub
y ordinate question however, it has been
. suggested, still remains to be determined,
e Between the mouth of the St. Croix, as
0 now fettled, and what is usually called
- the Bay of Fundy, lie a number of valu
d able Islands. The Commissioners have
- not continued the boundary lines through
- any channel of these Islands, and uniefs
- the Bay of Pafiamaquoddy be a part of
1 the Bay of Fundy, this further adjust
s ment of boundary will be neceiTary, But
it is apprehended that this will not be a
matter of any difficulty.
Such progress has been made in the
examination and decision of cases, of
capturesand condemnations of American
vessels which were the fubjeft of the se
venth article of the Treaty of Amity,
Commerce and Navigation, between the
United States and Great-Britain—that it j
is supposed the Commissioners will be ;
able to bring their business to a condu- \
iion, in August of the ensuing year.
The Commissioners afting under the !
twenty-fifth Article of the Treaty bef* J
ween the United States and Spain, have
adjusted most of the claims of our citi
zens, for lofles sustained in confequcfice i
of their vessels and cargoes having been ,
taken by the fubjefts of his Catholic Ma
jesty, during the late war between France
and Spain.
Various circumstances have concur
red to delay the execution of the Law
for augmenting the Military Establish
ment. Among thefc, the desire of ob
taining the fulleft information to direst
the best fele&ion of officers. As this
t objeft will now be speedily accomplished,
. it is expe&ed that the railing ancj orga
i nizing of the troops will proceed with
; out obstacle and with effedt.
» Gentlemen of the House of Reprefentativcs,
I have directed an estimate of the ap-
propriations which will be neceflarv for
: 'he service of the ensuing year, to be laid
befbre you, accompanied with a view of
1 the Public Receipts and Expenditures
■ to a recent period. It will afford you
fatisfn&ion to infer the great extent and
folidity of the public resources from the
prosperous state of the Finances, notwith
standing the unexampled embarrafs
-1 ments which have attended commerce.
' ien you reflect on the conspicuous
1 examples of patriotism and liberality,
which have been exhibited by our mer
cantile fellow-citizens, and how great a
; proportion of the public resources de
pends on their enterprize, yon will na
turally consider whether their conve
nience cannot be promoted and reconci
led with the security of the revenne by a
revision of the system by which the col-
is at prelent regulated.
During your recess, measures have
been steadily pursued for effc&ing the
valuations and returns, directed by the
aft of the last session, preliminary to the
afT.-ffinent and collection of a diredt tax.
- No other delays or obflacles have been
experienced, except such as were expert
\
s, ed to arise from trie grot extent' of. cur
i- country, and the magnitude and novelty
sf cf the operation, and enough has been
:r acromplilhed to allure .a fulfillment of
at the views of the Lcgiflatnre,
e, | Gentlemen of the Senate, anrl
i- Gentknun of theHoufe of Reprefer.tat:ves.
fs I cannot close this address, without
te once mere adverting to our politicaL-fitu
)f ation and inculcating the eflcntial im- ,
t- portance of uniting in the Maintenance
-S of our dearest interests ; and I trust, that i
.y by the temper and wisdom of your pro
is ceedings, and by a harmony of measures,
i- we shall iecure to our country that
> weight and refpeft, to which it is so juft
r ly entitled.
JOHN ADAMS.
v - FRUITS OF FRENCH* 4 DIPLOMATIC SKILL.''
•- The apparent Diplomatic train of the
French Government in this country, though
is numerous beyond all precedent or pL*a of ne
csllity,—has composed but a {mall part of
her aftive and dire ft agency here. Volney,
y Lachaife, and ail hundred other spies have
been unremittingly engaged in preparing the
remote and unorganized parts ef tlji coun
try, for a r-volt from the Onion, and a sub»
jedtion to France. Tins revolt has rlt length
'- been brought about in the ftite of ICen-ucky.
b One Garrard, who seems to be Govern
s or of the state, appears to have b.. n the firft
mover in this ambitious projeft. In his
fpeech to the Legislature he tells them, they 1
■ > have a ri-.-'nt to censure the general govern- i
:s ment. This interference of his important
d ate ) he affirms to be now called for—the !
Federal Legillature having violited the con- I
' uitution, by voting the Preiident with high ■
an d dangerous powers, and intrenching upon
- the prerogatives of the individual states. Af
-1 ter tnlf-ly aliening that an uncommon agita
. 1 tion of mind has been created by these mea
'' | fures in different parts of the United States,
s j this Governor proceeds in tfie following most"
if | atrocious ftram of misrepresentation and
t fallhood.
i " The " Aft concerning Aliens," is cal
j culated to produce effefts most strongly mark- |
n j ed with injustice and oppression, because the i
1. j exercise of the power given therein, depends j
S upon the dilcretion, or I may fay, the caprice !
j of an individual. Nothing but a general
I prevalence of hypocrisy among that numer
" • ous class of jKrfons on whom this law is
e meant to operate, can prevent consequences
!l f° much to be deprecated ;—for they must
- s affeft an approbation of all the measures of
government, whatever be their genuine sen
timents concerning them, or by an honest '
- disclosure of their real opinion, expose them
t selves to be ruined by banishment, on the fe- ;
a cret representations of some interested and !
i officious informer, and without enjoying
even the shadow of that trial by jury so
e dear to ireemen. Nor can the fame law be
if regarded as any thing less than an artful, ;
Q , though effectual evalion of the proviflons of ,
; that article of the Federal Constitution which
withholds from congress the power of pro
> | hibiting the migration a.s well as importation
e of such pirfons as the ftat;s then existing
t j should think proper to admit, a provision of
e ' the higlieft importance to these states, whose
; population is not full, and who have a strong
" ■ interest in welcoming the industrious ftrang
; er from every n' rt of the world.
e | " Anothcr4-i w the operation of which
_ J is more exteniive as.it refpeas the individu
' al, is entitled An act iii addition to the
e aft, entitled An aft i;,r the punishment of
- certain crimes against the Umti-d States,"
el w hicl) by fencing round the different bran-
ches of Government in their official capacity,
j with penal terrors, in a manner before un
kiyawn,. hath created a new crime against the
c Uoiited States, in a cafe where an interfer
ence on the part of the Legislature was ren
dered unconstitutional, by that clause which
forbids the cnafting of any law abridging the
v ' freedom of speech or of tlie press."
Here follows a patlage too weak and.con
. tcmptihle to merit muc.h attention.:
ed to tlie uneasiness which has disturbed the
s public mind :—for whiltl the advancing con
, d'ltton of our agriculture and population,—
- the ample, thongh not profule state of our
. crops', and tjie promifoig profpefts disclosed
of a foreign market, strongly indicate our
pref?nt pr'ofperity, and afford well grounded
expeditions *of future greatness,—and open
abundant scope for tlie exercise of the most
grateful feelings towards the ruler of the uni
r yerfe ; a War, horrible in itis' nature and ru
-1 inous in its consequences, hangs over us :
f a War by which we cannot possibly gain any
5 advantages, but may loose every
ir valued by tVeemen -:—and if by our united
exertions, and thfe favor of i kind providence
1 we may be so to maintain our
independence • 'it.,will r)t all eveirts, at an
. expence r.iidei v lucVi we ? and our posterity
must : oßti, and in consequence of which we
may be rendered unable to envbilnter hereaf
• tei'more formidable evils than any'with which
> we are at present threatened."
| This abominable speech, distinguished no
less- by the depravity of its sentiments, than
the most desperate folly produced forthwith
1 the following daring resolution, viz.
" That the several states composing the
United States of America, are not united on
the principle of unlimited submission to their
General Government ; but that by corapaft
under the style and title of a constitution for
l the United States and of amendments there
to, they conftitnted a General Government
for special purposes, delegated to that Gov
ernment certain definite powers, referring
each state to itfelf, the residuary mass of ■
right to their own feif Government; and
: that whenfoevpr the Genera] Gowrnment as
. fumes undelegated powers, its afts are unau
thoritative, void and of no force : that to
this compaft s;ach state acceded as a state.
and is an integral patty, its co-ftitea form
ing as to itft-lf, the cjther party. Thai
V • •»
'* Commonwealth does ihsrcfok ct?l
v f. n for-an rxpn-likm of their f.-fl
n the acis Concerning- Aliens, ant?
fcr the of certain trmis herein
btrors. plainly declaring whether
these aits are or «- e no't autborifed by the Fe
deral CompadH aili that the deflates rwmr
rinjjtii their natural r.*ht in cases fliot made
* federal, "will concur in fcclaring these arts
t void and of no force,' Sua w i!l fsch uhite
- with this Comrßon«Ve;ilth in their
_ repeal at the next fefiion of Conj/'-sefs." '
The n imc of the solitary Gentleman (Mr.
MURRAY ) who had the courage to tppole
t these detrftable proceedings, merits the n.ift
- conspicuous diftinftion. To do this, it
; seems, mul) have required no;, a little firm.
t nefs—for a gentleman in Lexington who had
written in terms of reprobation again fl the
lawless and turbulent measures of these daring
demagogues, is publicly threatened in terms
by no means equivocal, with exemplary ven
geance.
' " "i?
Ship Caffius at Auction.
0 On MONDAY next, the icth infant, at fix
o'clock in the evening, will he fold bv auc
h tion, at the merchant's coffee house '
f The Caffius,
' 'V' n 6 at navy-vard, with her
e m »ft > wd»,as they now a.e, fails
e .* as per inventory, whi h will be
- P r " (1lK l "! a t th « time of lale ; anchor*. rignmg,
| and came, as they now lav at Sraitt.'s fto"res a
bove Kire iireet. Th s Ihip is copper bolted,
1 and coppered up to light-water mark.
This (hip if 4 fill r-iilcr and is pierced for 18
- ! guns.
t FOOTMAN & Co. au<9i«,r*er S .
s 1 . ,fc * vn
'f ! To the Creditors of the Subscribers.
" ' p'-E/SE 'o Take notice. -h« ** h..ea P .
/ J. plied to ih* ju iges ~f ,hr (Vurt of Co -,m >n
_ Picas, for ihe benefit of an aft f lfembly, raff d the
- < ,afti " nd ,bc > hjV * »"P '" !c < l
j THURSDAY the 27th inft. to hear us 3rd cur Cre-
I duors, in .he ci v of Philadelphia a( f„ch tl-ce
1 where the Court may be held, an.; wnerc VHi may
_ attend 11 you please.
PATRI' KC'V MVAUGH,
J A WES DOCGHERI Y,
PETF.R G HO E,
i JOHN GRKENE,
l" LEWIS D GR tT,
i James m culley
3taw 3W
Bank of North Ameriea*
——. \
; ; THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that an
5 | Eleftion for twelve Dircftor*, for the enfum*
: 1 year, wUI b« 1 eld at the Bank on Monday, the
1 | 14th of January next, at ten o'clock.
. | RICHARD WELLS, Cafh'r.
, Dec. S, 1798. dtE j
s ! " ——
i Ten Dollars Reward.
f _
STOP. THE RUN AirJT.
t f\N Monday the 3d iuftint, ran away from
- j V-/ the fubferiber, at Woodbury, in the c an
- 1 ty of Glocefter and Hate of New-ferfev. a
} NI.GRO BOY, named PETER, about 17
T years old, about 5 feet 5 inches hijrh ; had on
when he went away j iight broad cl :h coat,
and an old pair of linen trowfers. He was for.
£ merly a slave to Oeorge Hazard of Su/Tex ~oun'lty
'ty l m
t ; '79*>_ by him bound to Vvm.Clark, or Ph-ia
i delphia, for 14 years, he afterwards was own
. j ed by Peter Grahl and George Dechamps, in
1 tl* c year, and in 1798, he became thepro
p per of Stephen . ayre of Bordenton.
f Any perlon returning the laid Negro to hi»
■niafter, or securing hitn fothat he may be had,
lhall have the above reward, and all teafonable
charges paid by
JAMES B. CALDWELL.
Woodburry, 6th Dec 1798.
1 NB. The laid toy ha's also the mark of a
. ring on one of his t'ortfingcrs. He was seen in
the iireeli of Philadelphia iafl Thursday morn
- ing. * r eo4t
CORDAGE.
Philadelphia. d«c. 5, 1796.
To be Sold by Public Auction,
ON TUESDAY MORNING,
the nth instant, at 10 o'clock.
■/It the Si oris of Mr. Peter Blight, on foutb
Jireet luhirf,
A Quantity of Cordage,
of the following description,
( quite new ) \
I cable, 1,3 inches, lib fathoms
4 do. 7 do. do. do.
3 coils 4 do. rope
1 do. 3 1-2 do. do.
2 do. ratline
2 do. spun.yarn
Also, 119 yards second hand canvnfa
Ap] roved Botes, at 60 days, will be ric-ivrd in
payment. FOOTMAN Es" Co Au&'rs
the partnership op
Hallow ell Sc Rhoads
BEING this day dissolved hy mutual confcnt.all
peifons having demands againil fa id Firm, are de
lired to bring in their accounts for fett!«ment, and
.thale who arc indebted are reqtiefted to make im
mediate payment to Samuel Rhoads, who is au
thoriied to receive the fame.
E. HALLO WELL
SAMUEL RHOADS.
dec. I <f
Notice.
ALL persons indebted to the ECate of John
B*rz,late of Southwark, baker, decatfed
are requeued to make immediate payment ; and*
thofei aving ajiy demandt againlt laid Ella t'e, to
forward their accounts, properly attested, for'f.t
tlemcnt. to
CHRISTIAN BE f Z, Administrator,
OK Ij 1 i.- 1 . no 1 3-5- -Mulb«ry.flreet,
Philadelphia, decembcr 3,
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
14 four pound Cannon, iff,-rent length*,
5 Catronades.
JOHN NIXON & CO.
December 1. £
THE CREDITORS OF
Joseph Thomas,
Ah E earncftly retjue(ted to meet at the
iCiTY-TAVEKN, on Saturday ■ next •
. . hx o'clock in the evening, oa buiinefs
hem of the utmost importance,
dec. 5 .IMPORTED,
From Hatoturuli, Tiremen, and
AND FOR SALE BY THE SUBSCP IBE * S *
An assortment of Geriptn Linens,
C 0 iV S I S T / aV (T 0F
Tick'ctt iUi gs
Ofwaburjs
Wefcr liurH
Checks and ftrv I ®*
Bielefeld Unc^
Brown filers t
Silesia c
&cs See.
150 Boxes of Claret.
5 Boxes of" hollow glafswart
11 calks of Russia brittle?
JIIO ON HSHD,
i Box of Irish Linens.
I Trunk (Ilk goods <
I Box of Gingham,
j4nd a complete assortment of
English Buttons. ]
Erich tsf Le-wis Bellman, j
No. 106, Spruce ftreec. j
Aovci».beri9 eolOt <
Smith & Rodman,
No. 49, Sonth Front street,
Jiavejujl received per the William Penn, and
Jane, from Lcndou, DiapaanrfThomas
from LirMtPooL, and Kinglton,
from Null,
A LARGE ii GEM.RAL ASSORTMENT OF
DRY GOODS,
AMONG WHICH ARt
Plain, tw il.'d and ttriped Crapes
C oatings Plaiu&ilriped
Fine wh'uc and red WcUhjWo; !lcd,Yam £3 Cotioi;
HantKis | Hose
Do. yellow and scarlet do.| Mc n and Roys Woollen
Superfine and iow prkeJ .j , r,
5-4, 6-4, 7-4, clwhsolp- 8 beach'd Irtth Dow- .
all Co.ors brown IrithLiren
r A a u u f 9-8 whita and brown It-
Vorcil and Hunter .loth f | y ifh shee[i
Green a:;d Red Drapery |Fhx :11 & Tow o zna-]
"a:2,e I b ur gh in bales
5-4, 6*4, and 7 4» do Droghrda t3 Irish SiltTtas
Red St green B )cUmg do.! 7 _B and yaid-wide Irdh
Swaafdo w«» t3" Toilanett • I Linens
Role, I'oint a::d DufliirPiiuifd Callicots&Chirir
Blankets ' tzes
meres of the newcltandj der'd Handkerchiefs
molt faihionable colors ;Cottcfn4c C allicoe Check*
Low priced Yorkihire do. T i( hrc » d M{»P ® Lac «"
rhin and tlriped Calli- Men's Beaver Gloves
1 rms in Imall cases
11.11 oe Holland Tapes (3 Bobbins
Joan Sp.nn.ngs acDurantSj, Cotd
Hattiuetts k Shalloons | HuMi and f Co 4
Norwich Camblets, for VclvcW a , ld V( ,i velt( .e ns
Black and olive Couon-
Sombazetts and Blackj a< j cs
With a variety of other Articles on hand, fo r
falcon the most reasonable terms for cash
or the usual credit.
Nov. 6 tu,th&fa,tf
JuJl Imported,
A quantity of falt-pt;«ro, refned
Gun powder F and double fealcd battle
C-ntion, 4 and 6 pounders
London porter and Burton liecr
Muftarrt squares, 4 ounces
Bert Durham mutlard
Ginghams, fubjed. to drawback
AU of which will be fold on moderate terms by
HENRV DAJ r IES, junr.
No. $3, south Second tirect, opposite the
city tavern.
rov. 9 niw&ftf
FOR SALE, 7
By George Plumsted,
No. 166, South Front Strut.
aj° wUole Tierces j R j g £
lco half do. )
Boxes white Havanna Sugari, entitled to
drawback
s,ooo pieces Nankeens, do. do.
Anchors weighing iyctot. and afiewt.
160 boxes containing tea setts of China
ij boxes of blue and whife table setts of do.
ALSO,
Boxes containing breakfafl, coffee and even
ing cups and saucers ; teapots, cream pot>,fu-
difhes, pint bowls, cuflard cups, flat and
ioup plates and didies.
Young Hyson Tea
Fans
Callia.
r.ov. 23 3taw»w
George Davis's
law-book store,
No. 319 Hick Street,
Latest London Irish Editions.
EOIiGE DAVIS's Fall importation isnow
~f arranged of which a more capital collec
ti _>n he believes was never offered far lale either
U thili City, London or Dublin It combines
alnioft every book in,with several vabiable books
out of print. Davis's confining himfelf to the
lale of Law- Bo»ks only, it will appear obvious
to profrffional Gentlemen, the advantages they
liave both in feletfion and price by purchaling
from him.
Uis Catalogues being ready, gentlemen will
pas ticujarly oblige hiin by calling for them —
~j»d to those refilling at a dift.mce, by fovoring
him with their address (pod-paid) they stall be
•Jent.
i).)v 26 m&tham
i\lrs. Spurrier,
MIDWITE,
J'rom Uis cityof London lying-in Hospital,
EMBRACES this opportunity of returning her
lincere thanks to those ladies whom fee has
had thehmior to attend, and moftrefpesfully in
forms them and W pther friends that (he has re
moved to fau h oixth street two doors from Chef
nut street, opposite Cengrefs Hall, where (he fUt
tersherfelf by earefijl attent ; on to the duties of
ly:r profeflisn to merit their future favprs.
nov 18 f w&i'a.ira
allTpe r sons,
HAVING claim* againfl the Ejtat« of
SUIANAAH LOCKrER, deceased, are
-tquefted tn present their r'fpedlive accounts to
NATHAN A. SMITH, ~l Aaing
JOHN°Z)ORSEr, j Ex'ftors.
A LEASE OF THE HOUSE
Lately occupied bv Sufmnab I.eciyer, tijrether
ivitb THE STOCK OF GOODS,
Areto be disposed of -Time will be given for
the latter on un-exceptiunable fccurity.
nov 9 3*w6w
R. TAYLOR,
MUSIC PROFESSOR,
KO. 96, NORTH SX XTH-STRERT,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Public that
he ccutiuu«9 to toacfa Ladies th« Pianc
Ftu t.- u
Nov. 6. ' tuthu
, JOHN SHIELDS,
BROKER, /
Rmbfaerj this »/>■ ortuhity to prtfait L.t thanks ,
!o !us fellow-citizens J~>r tpar pitjl favtfrt
ami acquaint s-'ti/fin that bus returntofrom
Ciicliiut iti'.i, to his formjr rrfidince, the
Hoitfe i\Q. 11 Chcfimt i J rout
art/l Second street,
he h.ilds himfelf ready to ixecute
j v v tkiir command* in en-ry branch of his •
1 pn>feflinn, troftirg that from arefidence in this
city of 35 years he has it in his power to ribder
them tffential service, a (Turing them that his ,
com million ihallbe is low a*anv in t own. >
Lo:ts, Lasds, Houses, Vessels, Certificates j
of every description and Hills of Exchange,
bought and fold, thedocketts carefully exam
ined arid clear titles made upon the (hortefl no
tice, by the public's humble fcrvant,
John Shields.
0- Good negotiable Nous discounted
it a low premium.
novernber y 3a '■«' f
Just Imported,
Iron cannon, doable fortified, Woolwich proof,
1 with their carriages complete— 3, 4, 6an J 9
pounders.
Carronadcs, Woolwich proof, with carriages, &c.
I complete— 12, i 3 and '32 pounders*
Can nda powder in kegs of a 5 lbs. each
Round, double-headed, an:' canniiltfr Ihot
» Patent ihearhmg copper, bright, afiortcd 18, ao,
22, 24, 26 and 28 or per fqu3re foot, Iheets 48
by 14 inches, fuirable for Vcflels from 100 to
I coo tons
Copper nails, bolts artid spikes
Boarding Pikes,
Common cucla.vs
, Gunners (lores ot all kinds
Tin-plates No I—l-3 cross boxes
Patent (hot in casks of jewt. each
s London porter and ft«ut,in calks of 7 doz.
• bottled.
Earthen ware in Ciates, alTorted
1 For Sale by
SIMON WALKER,
Pine near sth street.
Oflobcr 29. eo.rf.
'I Charles Campbell,
"j . WATCH-MAKER.
s TT AS remoTed to the Shop formerly occupied
1 n by Mr. John Wood, No. 55, corner of
Front and Chefnut-ftreets ; where he will thank
- fully receive and execute orders with neatnef.
and difpaieh
HE HAS CONST AN ft Y ON HAND,
A Neat and Large Aflortment of
Clocks & Watches.
wanted,
\ A JOURNEYMAN;
s ALSO, or.e or two Apprentices of refpedla
ble parents.
r FOR SAL?,
A large quantity of Watch GlafTes
WhohMc and Retail.
nov 14 ,iawtf
Hats Ssf Holiery.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
AT HIS STORE,
No. Market Street,
Has JUST OPENED, in addition to hii for
mer lloclc, a very cxtenfivc afiortment ot 1
Men's, "Women's, and Children's Hats, and all
kinds ot Stockings—particularly a quantity of A
berdeen Unit Hose, suitable for the prtfent season.
nov, 23 eoim
Ephraim Clark,
CLOCK y WATCH MAKER,
Corner of Front and Market ftrects, Philadelphia,
HAS JUST RECEIVED,
BY the different arrivals, a large supply of Clock
and Watch makers and Silver Smiths Tools,
> files and materials,
CONSISTING OF
Rowling Mills, large andfinall Bench and Hand
Vices, Turnbenches, Plyers, Sliding Tongs; Bra
ces and Bitts, Grooving tools, Saw«,ijcratch brnlh
e?, Blow pipes, Screw and Draw plates,large and
small Hammers, Clock dials, call bras. Bells, for
. ged w«rk and pinions, Emery, Rotten (lone, Pu
. mice (tone, Borax, Spelter Sorder, Brass, Steel and
J Iron wire, Iheet BraO, main springs and glades
gold, gilt, and fleel chains, fcals and keys, &c. See.
Cs* Clocks and Watches carefully repaired
mov . 21 eodtf
Notice is hereby Given,
~ r T" I HAT applicition will bemadeat the Trea-
X fury of the United States for the renewal
of the following certificates of Six per Cents,
funded debt—(landing in the name of Robert
Wilson of Calcutta in Bengal, Surgeon in the
service of the honorable United Company of
v merchants of England trading to the Eaft-In
> dies, which were loft from on board the Swal
r low-Packet, capt Kidd, from Falmouth toNew
s York. ' Dolls. Cts.
9 No 10,444, Reg. office 14th Dec.
e 17*3, one certificate for
s No 10,478, Reg. office 17th Dec.
I * 7Q3» one certificate for 1959 50
g Ellifton isf John Perot.
nov 13 eod6w
|i x —. —
Whereas the certificate of two
g flxxres of the Bank of the' United States in the
e name of Samuel Aviary, of London, banker,
No 3ißi,ifiued in lieu of 11593, H594, were
forwarded from London by the British packet
Countess, of Leicester, capt. Dodd, bound for
New-York, which packet was captured by the
French, and the fatil certificate loft ; and for the
renewal of which, application is made at said
' Bank, and all persons concerned are desired to
r take notice.
8 CLEMENT BIDDLE.
Fhila, OA. »6, 1798. eo6w
I JPatent Ploughs,
f r T I O be said for eafh by Joseph Salter at Atfioa
X Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry —Jonathan
Harkeij Woodbury—and Jefle Evans, Lumber
~ ton, Those who have used them give them the
F preference to any other kind, as they require
e i«f« tejm, brea* the ground better, are kept in
0 order at less expence and are fold at a cheaper
rate —the plan is much limplified and conlilts of
but one piece of cast iron, with the handles and
. beam of wood ; they may befixed with wrought
lays and coulters to be pat on with screws and
taken off at pleasure.
Patent lights for vending with inftru&ions for
r making them may be had by applying to John
N-wbold, or the fubferiber No. an North
r Front-ftrect.
Who hat for Salej
Or to LeaJ'e for a term of Years,
A number ot valuable trails of Land, well
situated fer Mills, Iron »Vorksor Farms, mofl
ly improved, lying chirfly in the cnuoty of Hun
tingdon flate'of Pennsylvania. Thole who may
t incline to view them will please to apply to
j JohK Canan cfq. near Huntingdon.
Ciarlet Ntwhold.
July 17 . %aw<(f
■! \
/
Imported
In the last arrivals from iJrr ner., i
Hamburg and Amsterdam,
AMD FOR SALE,
AT K&ASCX AiiLE PRICES AND liti A LIBERAL
CREDIT, BY
PRATT & KINTZING, {
N0.95, Vorth Water ilrcct.
215 bales & boxes l icklenburghs,
hempen linens and oznabriga from 1/5 to
•sj per eil
70 do. bleached and brown hefiians
40 do. brown rolls Xuit'able for cos- .
fee bajrs t
20 do. lirong do. do. for cotton do.
30 chetls platilUs 2 do. feahng-wax
3 do.
I 30 do. crcas a U Marlaix 4 do. f-il-uvine
IZ do. eflopaiiius I 4°. watches
15 dp- BiilefitliliAen 14 P'l >ci E' ; rf wjtie
_ jo do. pattcrhfuies ')i cases claret
do Brittanias 130 do line corhed
1 do. Hoihnd canvafe claret
• 1 do, Ruflia do. 1630 huftcls fin-j la!t
' 3 do. Ruflia sheetings 40 caflcsofr.ill brimflonc
1 do! ravens duck too calks of naval llores.
2do Ruflia drill, ns £0 logs prime mahogany
Ido brown holhiid 4 hhds. eolfee mills
2 do. Silefm rouans b bupdlCa German Heel
I dc'.Wahrendrop linen 10 chefls of slate? and
■ 1 do. Caraudoles pencils
5 1 do. Fleniitb linens A package of fltates
J I do, cambricks and A do. wooh n caps, See.
lnvns 4 cheds of Nurenherg
1 do Jiape!\ toys
ia do. Uiipcs 40 of yellow ochre
18 do. cliecks -3 )'hds. Glue
2 do. Gam s S barrel,cfl,entil.es
I do. Arabia ft ripe 5 cheits of prime red
I do. burfiiig for color- crult Holland cheese
I pa?ka. A'aCras hand-30 kegs of pearl barley
kerchiefs 60 boxes of capers
1 do. Turkey yarn 400 lides of uppet and
6 bale-i empty bags foal leathfr
1 chellliair ribband 300 boxes window glass
3 boxes tapesj atforced 800 Demijohns ■
% da. boboin, aflorted boxes glass tumblers
I box threads & tapes r.florted
I do. fine blue HlUdos 2 hhds. pumice ftcnc
5 ehefts men's flippers 1 box of miil laws
3 do. bed ticks I calk of cutlery
i 2 calls hog's bridles A quantit} of Hone jugs ;
I 6 chefls writing paper and pickling pots
4 do. quills A fsw fliips anchors, &c. i
» novemljer ia tuiStf ti
To be Sold, i
OP EXCHANGE!), t
For property in the City, or within Thirty j
miles of it,
A Valuable Plantation, i
IN Tu f .cor6ra Valley, MilHin county, containing
ab«ut three hundred acres, the vrhole capable !
of cultivation. Atprefent there is about 50 acres
cleared, 10 of which is a rich bottom of Meadow
Ground, enriched by a never failing stream, that
has fall and water enough for all the purposes of '
a Country Mill. For further information apply at
No. 63, Market 11 reet. <
Hcvember 10 taw
10R SALE, j
Fifty Acres of Good Land,
Lying in Gloucieter County,
State of Nerr.Jerfey,
TWENTY-FOUR acres ot which ate
Woodland, the relt, Meadow. This
' 'land lies about half a mile from 'Pisaber-Cteek,
' ami two miles from the river Delaware, the
* eounty road palling through it, and the great
'• road only two miles diltsnt. For terms, apply
_ to, PAT KICK OOGHERTY,
Sign of the Rainbow, in Shippen,
between Second and Third-Jtreets,
dec 4
'• "advertisement.
!', Todd & iVlott,
Of the City of Philadelphia, Merchants, having
affigned\over their elfeifts, real, pcrfonal, and j
mixed, to the fubferibers for the benefit of all
their Creditors—
i Notice is hereby Given,
- TO all persons who are indebted to, the said
L estate,. that they are required to make tra
il mediate payment «f tbcit relpeilivc accounts to
s either of the aflignees, in failure whereof, legal
:• ractifures will be taken for the recovery of such
J debts as arc not difchargcd without delay.
John Waddington
John Rhodes > Aflignees.
John Allen. J
l i "Qv- 26 tu.th&fatFi
!, ALL PERSON'S,
■/ TTAVING demands againll the Estate of
e XT Henry deceafed, lateofthe
,f City of Philadelphia, Malfter and Shopkeeper I
are requested to jurnifh their accounts properly
|. authenticated and all persons indebted to said
.. Estate are desired to make speedy payment to
CASPAR W. HAINES,} , .
FR£D£RICK GAUL, \ ad»»n'jlnators
nth no. 13 faawsw
Mails for South-Carolina iff Georgia. ~!
PACKETS are now provided for carrying the
Public mailsby >yater between Philadelphia
and Charleston. They will leive Philadelphia
3 on Friday's. Ths poll by land will be continu
ed twice a week until an expedient u made in I.
e regard to the expedition and regularity of the
> packets. If any person. chufes" to huve their
e letters lent by land only, they will pleafr to
' write the word Zand upon the letters : other
,r wife they will be lent by that Cinveyanse which'
e will firft start after the letters are left in the
poft-uffice. j
0 Jofefb Haberjham,
PoJl-MaJler Gemerl.
Philadelphia,
Notice is hereby given, ~
THAT applitation will be made to ebc ticafury
of the Hnited States tor the renewal of the follow
a i«g certificates of fix per cents, funded debts, lland
n in the name of Jane GairttHe RinauJ, of Geneva,
> which w<nc loft from on board the Swallow Pack
e et, Capt. Kidd, from Falmouth toNew-Yoik.
« Bolt,.
n N0.3195. Reg.office i9thMay '95, ieert.for tooo.
:r i 3, j ßi. do. 14th do. do. 1 do. for 3500
rf Willings 1$ Francis.
d Ofloher 14. eod6w.
FOR'SALE.
Rice, in whole and half Tierces.
ir Sherry, and"! WI „ F „
n Tereriffe J «>NES.
h Carolina and Georgia Indigo.
AND A PARCEL OF
Shipping Furs and Skins.
ii A rH'y
'' JV. J. Frazier,
No. 95, So. Front Street'
y november 13 3taw3w
0 FOR SALE, Vf.EY CHEAP,
A ©uantity of printed Paper, suitable for I
Grocers, Tobacconists, &c. Enquire of the
Printer, 1
I BftV iQ
Samuel :sf Misrs Fifhsr,
No. J;, Dock-St.-* z et.
slave reiehvd'jur the Moaning Star, from
Ter.erifc,
Good Cargo Wine,
In Pipes, Hoplheads End-Quarter Calks.
Per the Pallas, from Hamburgh,
Gorman Ozuabrigs &Ticklenburgs. !
And by the late arrivals ft cm Loudon,
Livei pool. Hriftol, J lull mid ( >uhUD,
A GENERAL A^SORTHESi' OF
WOOLEN GOODS,
FX INC trAL LY ON CONSIGN Mth T.
Which they are desirous at )eliiii£ by the
Package, in which are iepzratcly made up —
the following articles on low terms ;
Rose Blankets, 6 4, lo 10-4
2 i ' c j point bijnkets
Mottled a:icl green Hups 6-4 to ,w
Mixt »nd drab Forrelt cloth.., sorted
FeJrriofi'iihli
Blue Plains
Blue, nitxjt and drab plains, sorted prices J
Mixt, rwi'.l'd, llviped and blue co.n:i:gs, do !:
llluc; ro.ixt iir.l bi-o»;i kerley dufLU, fyrttd h
ColoiU l&d pi'iuCS : tl
Mill'd drat) Broadcloths, farted prices
Blue Hroatlclpths, do
.Low prictd liroadcloths, colors neatly sorted ;
Swanfdown, flriped and-printed iCfcdyrnejes
Mixed andfoned colored Kerseymeres
Xsleat i'uper, and fuperhne cViths, Elaftics-and /
Beverctts
White*, yellow and red FL • Is, sorted prices
Green and v< hite Kaize
Yarn Hole and Caps
Coarse and fine Hats, in cases of 6 dozen
20 pieces lit per fine wide Black Rullcls
Joans Spinning and Camlilets
With an I voice of common and fine drawn
NAILS, flit: and (harp points, well assorted
They have' al/o for Sale,
British Oz"abrigsT
Ravens Duck iIN BALES.
Ruflia Sheetings j "*■
Saxwn and Bohemila Dowlas—in Chefls
Brown quadruple Silefias and white Phtillas, do
Trifh Linens, in Boxes J
lrifh Dowlas, white and brown
Irifli Sheetit.gj, do
Jriih Sacking
Shot, aflorted. Red and White Lead and Span- >
ifli Brown
T Crawley Wellington Steel
Queens ware, in Crates
Glass ware, in Crates and hoglheads
NewcaUle Grindflones. Boxes tin plates
A few pipes London market TeneruTe Wlie
India Romall iftlkfs.}
Long Cloths V IX BALLS.
Humhums 3
Womanslhoes, iu barrels
Spermaceti Candles, in boxes.
11 ino 1 7 3*w6w
FOR SALE,
To be EXCHANGED for property within thirty
mi'es ef the c!tv, or to let on ground-rent forever'
Several valuable building Lots, t
In Philadelphia, SjSj
Enquiry of Williain M. Biddlt. ne. 147, Chefnut- <
ftrect. I
nov 22 5 c
Ironmongery, Cutlery, &cc. i
THE SUBSCRIBERS r
INTENDING to decline their pteient Bufnefs, a
offer tor file, at reduced prices, a handl'ome
affoitment ot IroEmongery, Cutlery, &c. in lots
to suit the purchasers.
John Green (S? Co.
No. 16, Nerth Second ftrect.
Cj" Ironmongers
Will find the above Goods not snworty their 1
attention.
p0y.23 {
Dobbin & Roberts-
T AY LO RS, . \
RESPECTFULLY inform theirCuftomers, and r
the Pubiic in general, that they have retro- t
ved from No. "114, Ckefaut .Street, to a
No. 30, South Fourth Street; 1
j Where orders in their line will be thank'ully re
ceived and diligently attended to.
November 15 mw&f.iw
Trench Language.
G. DUFIEF, <
No. 63, South Second Street,
WILL OPEN 1
His DAY and EVENING SCHOOL, [
Qn Wednesday, the h\tb Irjl. \
N. B.— Private Tuition attendexi to as ufuil
, and 1 ranflations from either Language into the "
other, performed with accuracy, .secrecy, and 4
difpacch.
Nov. to exvt f
— n
John J. Parry, .
CLOCK es* WATCHMAKER, '
; H/iS again opened at his ufml Stand, No- 38, "
South SecondJlreet—'where he has for Sale,
A VARIETY OF
Excellent Gold & Silver Watches, J
AN U A FEW \ c
Eight Day Cclocks, 1
Ji hich will be warranted to &i*ve fatisfaQion.
An aflbrtment of
Gold, Steel and Gilt chains, Seals and Keys.
All kinds of Clock and IVatch work done- with
particular attention as beretofote.
£5" An Appren'ice wanted. v
navember i s _ m.-.u&fzw- 1
JLARENCE SECKEL,
No. 155, Market-Street.
First quality London Particular >
Madeira, Port, Sherry and Lilban >
Cognise Brandy, lit to 4th proof.
Sprits. *
. By the Pipe, Hhd, Qnarter-cafk or Gallon. li
cc 3 mw&fjw c
TEN DOLLARS REWARB a
DEjsERIED last night, a second time, from t!
the Marine Canip, David Luper, a fifer.— n
He had when he went away, a plain Llue jacket and t
veft,light blu joverall,, a round hat, which S
bound with yellow, and which he had ripped off f,
in his fitft desertion, and a pair of new Ihoes. he is v
a.Carpenter by trade, has grey eyes, Tandy hair |
fillow complexion and a nitch in his upper lip 1
His hack is fttll fore from a flogging he got a few f (
days ago He may b« difcoveVed by his fifeini;,
as he pUys extremely well. <-
W. W. BURROWS Major Com. of the "
oaober 17. Marine Corps.
The time of an A dive
BLACK, BOY,
WHO is about Oxteen years old, and has five
years to serve, to be .-.fpofed of He is
• | well acquainted with the buftnefs of a farm, and
' handy at cooking or waiting in the hsufc. En-
Iqu.re at the office of thu Gazette.
a0v.,6 CO3V
I M PORTED,
In the Ships Active and Liberty,
from I/iUiburcm.
Ticklenburghs,
Oznabrigs,
White Platillas
i • Brown Silefias
Bretagnes
Hessian Rolls
Brown Russia Sheetings
German Lindfeys,
Bed Ticks, &c.
For Sale by
GEORGE PEN NOCK.
no. ioj Market-Sreet.
n ->v . §
N 0 T I C E,
ALL Persons Indebted to tkeElljte of Wil.
liam Beauchamp, lately deceased, are ie
; fired to make immediate payment and thole who
! have arlv clainre againlt laid Estate to produce
I their accounts properly attefled to
Sam/. Price, executor:
iiov 20 dim
________
OF THE FIRST QUALITY,
And fit for India voyages.—For Sale By
WILLIAM SHEftFF,
No. j43, Street,
nov. 13 dtf
FOR CALE,
By the Subscriber,
Belfaft Canvass, No. r, to 7,
Oft moderate terms iy- Cash or a Ihort credit.
James Lyle,
South SeventhJlreet, near Che/nut.
nov 16 $
%' M
Forty Dollars Reward.
1 ' DESERTED,
From a Detachment of A fen under my com t
mand, at Camp IVejl Schuylkill, viz.
O<£lober 19.
GEORGE IvELLEH# 40 year* of age, 5
feet 6 inches in height, dark hair and
complexion, bom in Mcl'land, no Tradt, fpaak»
broken Knglilh asd very talkative, has a dimpje
in his chin.
November (>. John Murphy, n 7 years bt
age, 5 fret 7 i inches in height, grey eyes, dark
hair and complexion, born in Ireland, city of
Dubs.l, by trade a Hozier.
Jacob Jdeii, 34 years of age, j feet 6 inch«
high, grey eyes, sandy hair, trtfhcbihplexioa,
boiii iu ftate of Connedlicut, a
repeated detener, by trade a Blacksmith.
November 7. William Collins, 3oyeais of
age, j feet 6 inches high, sandy hair, irelh com
plexion, grey eyes, bom in Ireland, county of
Wexford, by trade a Gardner, has worked for
some time about Philadelphia, l.t k very fond
, to hear liirnfelf Sing.
All the above deserters are very much addiA
- ed to liquor, and wiil take ether jvcople's pro
perty if 111 their power, are artificially marked
on their hacks, had on, when they went away,
thoir regimental slothing. Whufocver appre
hends said deserters, Oiali receive forty dollaw
reward, or te» dollars for each, with all reifon
> able expences, by applying to fne as above,
EDWARD MILL.FR, captain
> id regiment of Infantry commanding.
nov 10 J
BALLAST.
A QUANTITY to bedifpoled of, if applied for
immediately, 011 board the Ship Louit*, lying
Mr. HUMPHREY'S Snip Yard,
novetr.bqr 10.
ALL ,t>F. RSON:', having any legal demands a
gainll-the estate of tVillium Perkins, rieceJlcd,
latj oi the city of Philadelphia, Tavern keeper, are
I retjuefted to furnith their acuoimt* properly au
thenticated, and all persons indebted to Lid estate
are r.'qaeftcd to make payment to the fubfenbar in
Philaoelphia,
LEVI HOLLINOSiVORTH Adminr.
OvSlobcr 31 it, 1798.
DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO \VTT:
EE JT KEMIiMBF.RZD.
v i XIIAT ©a the twelfth day
\ )ol August, in the twenty-third year «f
A the Independence of the United States «f
America. Benjamin Smith Barton, 6f the said dif
tridl, hath deposited in this office the tide of a
book the right whereof he claims us author in the
words following to wit :
"New Views of the Origin of the Tribes and
" Nations of America—By lunjamin Smith Bar
[ " ton, M. D.Corrgfpondent Member of the Socie
" ty of the Antiquaries of Scotland, Memb=r o£
" the American Philosophical Society, FcUow of
" the American Academy of ATts-and Sciences df
" Boston, Correfpoiid'dg Memfcur of the Malfa
• " chul'etts Hillorical and Profefibr of
" Materia M#dica, Natural Hiitory and Botany
" in the Univerftty oi Peunfylvania."
' In coi.lormity to the of the Cdngrefs of the
United State*, intitled " An a£t for the encourage
nutot-of learning Uy securing the copies of maps,
1 charts,and books, to the authors and proprietor,
of such copies during the times ther.in mentioned.'»
SAMUEL CALDWELL, (J.erk, Did. of Pen))*
November a, 1798.
A Young Man,
' "TTTTIO writes a good liand, under/lands
V V accounts and can be well recommended*
wants a Situation as Clerk or Affillant in a,
WhoJelale Store, or Conuting-houle.
cation to be tnade at this Office.
nov 14 J
J CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC..
JOHN A. SHAEFFER, ol Philadelphia, who kai
•for a few years pall been in the fou'.hern State*,
has had the effrontery to 6raw fcvcral Bills of Ex
change on Timothy Pickering, Efij. Secretary of
State, and myle!f,and by that means has defrauded
a number of perl'ons ef their money, dceeivir.s
1 them by an exhibition of letters and papers with the
names affixed of divers public characters and repu
-1 table merchants highly recommendatory of said
1 Sbaeffkr ;to one ot these papers I find uiy name
f fubferibed, but Ido not know the man ; thel'e arc
s villainous torgtries! To prevent lurtherimpofition,
1 have to requell.the printers of Newfpapersin the
United States to publilh this lor the benefit of their
fellow-citizens. SAWJEL MEREDITH,
• 'Trcqfurtr ef lb: Unitdd Statcj.
c Xt:cnton,Nciu
Oaohtr 24, 1798. J
To be Let,
4ND POSSESSION GIVEN
ON THE APRIL NEXT,
THE CITY TAVERN,
. Noyv in the poffcflion of Samuel. Rich*fd<t,
Apply at this Office,
aovaraber tj S
r