» - * • -» » , T> '-2 ' L 1 < i
#a*ette of tty pta m 9 and Philadelphia Daily Advertiseh
By John Ward Fenno, N°* 119 Cbefnut Street;
"humbe* 1947.3 PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 13, 1795. XIV.
O- "The price of this Gazette is
Eight dollars per annum to Subscri
bers reftding in the city of Philadel
phia. All others pay one dollar ad
ditional, for enclojing and directing;
and unless foviepefpin inthis city will
become answerable for the fubferip
tion, it must be paid Six Months in
advance.
-• T ■
For Sale,
J*— V THE SHIP
%«S* oston packet>
m H«tiNC»Cowp«*THW*lT, Mister,
BURTHEN about 1,506 barrels. 1 go-dftrong
Ship—has excellent iccommodationsfor paliengers, .
mxv Iw fe»t to wi,h small "F tncc - SSc lay * !
iiy »t Mifflin 1 . wharf, for further particular en
quire of .. (
Isaac Harvey, jun, or
Smith & Ridgway.
■ovtml.tr 16 flit
I'-y Sud (hip, if nnt fold on, or tieforo tha sth
of D'e.mker.inlt. will on that day , in the evening,
be offered for file by public at}sion, at the mer
chunts's coffee h *ufe.
Smith (Sf Ridgway, ,
Isaac Harvey, jun.
'dee. 3. __
FOR SALE,
*HS tvir
PERSEVERANCE,
James IVKlliamfon, majler.
Jtift arrived from St Domingo, built in Phi
ladelphia, ».f live Oak and Cedar, copper fheath
td in London, burthen 3:0 tons mounting 16
guns and may be prepared for sea in a few days,
With her Cargo, '
Now on Board,
CONSISTING OF '
151 Hoglheads and 50 barrels Sugar
160.c00 Weight of prime Coffee in hhds. bbls [
and baps iff
3 r Punehtons of Jamaica Rum. 1
igjfe, TTc k, :
Williamson, Majter. '
FROM St. Don;:ngo, with her cargo, confiding of
43 hogsheads of Sugar, '
And 40,000 weight of prime Coffee.
LIKEW!SE|
the brio
AMIABLE MATILDA,
MOUNCING vi Guns, burthen
tkoufand two huudred barrels of e
yiour, awd »nkr.—Apply to 1
Thomas John Ketland. t
november j.} $ "i
For Sale.
THE S'jßjeufdtß, intending to decline the
DRUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the
w'hole Stock of *»
Drugs and Medicines, Instruments, &*_. '
The Ihop is tlegant, commodious, and fuflici
cntly known for the exteafive bufmefs ('one in the t
wholcfals and retail line ; the situation equal to \
a»y in the city, being at the c<ii ner of Walnut and
Second ftrcets. The whole, or any part of the
Stock, will te fold, as will hell suit the purthafcr.
Tha terms may be known, by applying to
JAMES MOORE, juk.
IVko has For Sale,
Well calculated lor the river trade—
The Peggy, about 3otonsburthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably '
flour, of an easy draught «f water, rigging in
good order.
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
well, and in complete order for the lumber bufmefs.
jjs" All persons indebted to the late firm ei
GoldthvJait 13" JJatJwin, IV! It GoldtbwaH, Go/d
---tb-uwil ts" Mtorr, or the fubftril er, are earneilly
requeued ts nuke speedy payment to
JAMES MOORE, jbn.
august 3 5
BOSTON BEEF,
100 Barrels in Shipping Order.
rOK IALC BY
JOHN SKTRIN,
A'o. 96, A or/A Fromjlreet.
Who wants to Charter,
. A GOOD STOUT VESSELy
about 300 Tons burthen.
HAS ALSO FOR SALE,
43 Pipes of Madeira Wine, 3 years old.
jicvit m 4 t
FOR WILMINGTON,
Wo rth- Carolina,
THE SHI? j
COMMERCE,
Captain Wood,
fLL tahcin freight on very mc
derate terms, and fail about the <
a«h uiftat.t. Apply to the Captain on board at
l.atimtr's wharf, or
Willings Francis,
Penn Street,
november 16 5
FOR SAVANNAH,
The fast sail/ tig t»id well
accommodated Shij>
SWIFT-PACKET,
—W pA.Ttt.ict Gubbew, majler.
A euiiltant trailer, will fail in a few days. —
freight or pafiag# apply tn the mafk-r on
W-d, or N. <3 J. FRAZIEU,
No. 9j, South Fiont-ftrret.
cc 4 diw
MAYOR'S OFFICE
HfMOVED to 1 South SecoaJ-ftreet.
FOR SALE,
The fajl failing Schotner
sg|j» THREE SISTERS,
it now ready to take a cargo on
will carry 600 or 6jo barrels.
ALSO, A SMALL IWVOICK
JAVA COFFEE,
SuijeS to drawback,
Enquire of
JEHU HOLLING3WORTH ts* Co.
AO. 47, Penn Street
december 11 dtf
For New York 13 Bojlon.
new Sloop
#®^Vpresident-packet,
J JMBt Brackhtt, majler.
WILL la.l with a,llconveiiientfpeeJ—Far freight
or passage apply to the mailer on board, lying at
Chefnut-ilreet Wharf.
who has for sale,
On board said Sloop,
30 bbls. of cod-oil finell quality
10 do. of herring ar.d (had
Few half do. mackrael
A small quantity of fmoaked herring *-
60 bbls. of u inter pears
5003 benches «f onions
4000 lbs. of excellent eheefe,
Philadelphia, d--c. it.
Ship Broker's Office,
And Cmnmijfton Store, ]
No. 1:9, South front Stkfft,
Neat door to «he ( u.!o.'« Houfc.
'THE Subferiber, enct uraged by the advice ill j
X his friends, offers his service to the public
as a Ship and Insurance Broker. H<- pro^oi'
es to buy and ft!l veflels and every ihing relat
ing thereto —aflill masters of veflels and o'herg
in entering and clearing at the Cnftom-Houfe,
procuring and lhipping freight, fettling Imur
ance and all nther mercantile accoun.s, and
have on hand the Deceffajry Blanks and Stamps.
Papers in foreign languages -ranflated, and in
formation given iri general mercantile \ atters.
—From a knowledge gained by long experience
of every branch of bufineft he hopes to be ufe
ful to thole who pleafc to fivor htm with their
commands. SAMUEL EMERY.
November 19 $
For SALE or CHARTER,
. THE SHIP
MOLLY,
Burthen 42C0 barrels of Flour,
Philadelphia built, well found
isfesii anc l gtted, and may be ready
to receive a cargo in a few daye—(be is pierced
18 guns, and mounts iz new lix pounders, with
Tnrall ..ifle :.i -
J—t THE SHIP
D 1 A N A,
Burthen 2,100 barrels of Flour,
Philadelphia hnilt of live oak
■■ : ~«*"3&V^4? Cf and c*dar, is pierced for four- i
teen guns, end mounts ten new four pounders,
with small arms in proportion. •_
THE BRIG
AMAZON,
Burthen 1.300 barrels of Flour,
built, has lately
been completely fitted, and may be ready for sea
in a few days.
For terms apply to
NICKLLX W GRIFFITH.
Who have for Sale
on boardfundry ■vejfels at Marcus-Hook,
ti,ooo bushels of Liverpool fine fait
1,100 bulhels of coals
386 crates of queens wate aflorted
7 tierces of bottled porter
10 barrels of culeothrrd paint
4 do. of purple brown do.
a quantity of yellow ocre in calks
6 barrels powdered Venetian red paint
6 barrels mineral black -to.
15 barrels Spanilh brown do. c
33 boxes ot pipes L
IS } !,AVANA SUGARS
3,5001b5. prime cochineal
3 barrels New Orlean? indigo
4 puncheons Jamaica Ipirits
to bales of fail nnvafe
379 lheets of copper, affvrted from 48 by 24
to 60 by 48 inches
Two tubs raised still bottoms assorted
36 fix pound guxs 44 feet, Bjcwt each
14 do. 4 feet, icwt and 4lbs each
jo barrels of gun powder
6 cases Mane helter cotton checks
3 trunks mulling md shawls
14 cases muflinets, dimities and gmghams
*8 chests coloured nankeens, muflinets, &c.
11 trunks printed calicoes I ]
6 bales of whits and coloured cafßmercs j
1 bale of course woollens
Englilh nails assorted.
October tj. fri.&fat. tf. '
1
AUGUSTUS FRICKE,
Woollen Draper Ssf Men's Mercer
M*. i, forth ThirdJlreet,
has received,
per the latt arrival Europe, a large assort-
of the fashionable Uoods in his line.
And hat conjlantly for fait a general ajfort
ment of ,
First rate London iuperfine Broad
Cloths r
Caflimeres
Veil Patterns of all kinds
" * «"•
december to d({ . j
"tctaYlor;
MUSIC PROFESSOR,
9 s - S1 X 11-ST lit T
T) ESI-EC'l FUL\.Y informs the "Public that
iV he contint.es t V teach Ladies th« Ha,to
I'orte as uluai. \
Nuv - 6 ■ \ tuth.a
John Miller, junr.
Has re tumid to the City,
AND II RSM.OVINC FROM NO. 8, CHESNDT,
To the Tine Story Building, in Doc/ 1
near Tbird-flreet.
Where he has for Sale
250 Bales of Bengal Goods;
CONSISTING o»
Celiacs
Haftas
Mamoodies
liumhums
v Calicoes
Handkerchiefs, &c. &c. (
The remains of a Stock of ,
DRY GOODS,
Conji/ling of Woolens only }
«m>HCST THEM ill,
Cloths
Coatings
Blankets
Kendal Cottons
Hats, ike. 1
ALSO, 5
100 Hhds. of Old Rum,
Of a line flavor, 3d 4111 proof,
nov io
' REMOVAL.
George Dobson,
TNFORMS his friends and the Public in general
I that he has removed from No. 15.South Third
street, t» No g I,South fide of Markct-ftrect, near
t'".e corner o! Third Street, and is now opening
a very extensive afiorloiertt i f
DRY GOODS,
suitable for the present sr. ason,
WHICH HE HAS JUST RSCIIVED, ]
Per the (hips William Pf'liii, Amiable, aad Jane,
from ',om!on, mid per Chefapeak and Thomas ]
from Liverpool, and will bj fold low for calh,
pr approved notes at a (hort date, viz, ,
London 7-4 Superfiije Cloths and
Caffimeres, falhionablc colours
York (hire 7 4 do. and do.
Mix?)! and plain coatings
Welch flannels
Kerfty beavw, for Spencers '
Jeannets and Tabby cords
Velvef-a«d velvctteeus
Velverets and thickl'etts
7, 8, 4 4 and 11-g cotton and linen checks -
7-8 and 4 4 bed tics
6-4 and 7-4 bed bunts I
London chintz and chintz furnitures
Furniture cottons
Do. dimities
Purple and chintz (hawk
Silk do.
Camels hair do.
Silk, cotton, and worded hose I
India and British nuiflins of every defviption
Black and white erape
Tiffany.and paper fans , •
Hats aflorted in'fmall cases <
Umbrellas 1
Peelings and fattins
Laces and edgings
Ribbands
f* vim mud*,.
Superfine French cambKck
Cambrick muslins
Do. threads
Pulicatand Madras Handkerchiefs,
And an elegant assortment of
Brussels and Wilton Carpeting.
November 17 §
11 ~ • 1
For sale by the fttbfcribers,
A FEW BALIS OF
WOOLENS,
Containing Cloths &Blankets,
150 bales Bengal mufliiis
•20 do. Madras haudkerchiefs, elegant pat
terns
20% pieces Ruflia sheeting
10 boxes umbrellas
a quantity of caflia
30 twns Petersburg clean hemp
2$ pipes, 3 years old, particular Ma
deira wine
a quantity cf copper
Mordecai Lewis.
Nov. 26 d2w
Imported
IN THE ARRIVALS,
Superfine, fine ana common cloths
Swandowns
Baizes
Velvetts
V elverttts
Printed calicoes
Furniture & fancy dimities
Hair ribbands
Sewing silk
Bruffcls and Persia caipetts
Buttons
For sale, for cajb or credit, by
SAMUEL MERRICK,
no. 243 Arch ftrcet.
Nov. J6 §tjani
LANDING,
From on board the Brig Amiable Matilda,
I Richard Stites, Master, from Cape
Nichala Mole.
43 Bales Socks and Flannel Drawers "1 pq M
18 Do. Gaiters j 3" n 1 o
a Do. Rugs . ~
I Do. Havre Sacki f * = S
a Do. flannel Trowftrs ) 3 3- "
a Do. Tents, j a £
Also just Imported,
In the Ship Chcfapeake, Captain W«bW, from
Liverpool,
147 Crates of Queen's Ware,
Aflorted particularly to luit the Weft-India
Market—For Sale by-
Thomas & John Ketland.
November 7 £
Now Landing,
From on board the (hip John Bulkeley, and
for sale at tli# (lores of Jeffe & Robert
Wain,
350,0c0 weight of Java Coffee, j
of the sis lt quality in bags.
150,000 weight of Java Sugar, !
in caaui&crs.
noy - *y dtf
Bond Sc Brooks,
Cornea or Market and Sixth struts,
HJI'E RECEDED,
by the late arrivals from London, Liver
pool and Hull, 1
A LARGE AND SIMRRAL ASSORMIHT Ol
DRY GOODS, ;
Which they are now openirg for sale, at the mod
reduced prises, lor calh or the usual credit. 1
A capital Stand for Business
TO LET,
That large and commodious HOUSE, no. 39,
south Front dirtily oppofitc the I'oft-Oftice,
togsther with the (lore and cellar, on the Water- ,
ftrcet fide. Knqsire as abuve.
nov 17 5
Old Madeira Wine.
27 pipes of old Loudon particular
MADEIRA WINE,
n flrong iron bound Hatnbro' casks, for
ale by ROBERT ANDREWS.
Nov. 30. eodtf
JAMAICA RUM, ~
A Cargo noiu landing ctt South flreet tvharf,
FOR SALE BY
P£T£R BLIGHT,
Apply at Stores on the' Wharf,
who also orrißS for uii,
BRANDY, id and 4th proot
Madeira and Port WINES, Sic. &c.
Nov. 1, dtf
Jn/l imported in flips William Penn, A
miable and 'Jean, from London,
A quantity of Cannon, sizes 4,6 & 9 lb.") with halls
Catronades, ia lbs. j fuitabl;,
Mufquets, Mufquetoons,Cutla(les and") ®
Pillola, for (hips use, | 5.
Rifled barreled Quas, Fowling Pieces, 1 § »
and Horfcman'sPiftols, ]
400,000 Flints, cniefly for mufeets, in j 8"
kegs. J «
Regulation Light Dragoon Sabres, with Iron Scab
bards, in cases of JO each,
Light Cavalry Swords in Cases
Sabres, Swords and Cutlass, with plated mounting
Ironmongery and Cutlery in cases, a general af
fortmeat—For Sale by
Thomas £•>* Jno. Ketland
Philad. O&ober a;.
Just Arrived,
In the Brig Eliza, from the Mediterranean, and
now landing at Walnut Street wharf,
Fourth proof Brandy in Pipes.
Brimftcne.
Anaffortment of valuable DRUGS,
CONSISTING or
Opiam, Aloes, Cantharides, Camphirc, Senna,
Cremor Tartar, &c. kc.
Eflences of Lemon rnd Bergamot
1 Writing paper
Sweet oil in bottles and Safes
Olives, anchovies and capers
Juniper berries
jIJ-S o.—ltalian lutestrings
Crapes
Umbrellas
Remaining on Hand,
St. Croix Sugars,
Claret in cafas
Old Madeira Wins of the firftquelity.
JAMES YARD.
November 3 §
Genteel Boarding Lodging,
IN A HIALTHT SITUATION.
MRS. M'CREA informs h«r friends a»d the
Public, that (he is prepared to accommo
(date fcveral Ocnrlemra, wirk genteel Boarding
and Lodging, at No. 17, Filbert ftrcet.
Nov. a 8 dtf
Evening School.
5. l~ElFis,
INFORMS the Public that his EVENING
SCHOOL for Young Gentlemen will open
for the Winter, on Monday, December ic, at
No. Ac 1 Arch-flrect, near Sixth.Street,
dec 7 djt
~ WITN~?~£~D.
Convenient Lodgings, for an elderly
Lady, in a relpc&abie private family, where
there are no children. Enquire at this office,
dec 4 dim
~ NOTICE. "
ALL persons indebted tu the eft ate of Jams 9
Thompson, of the Indian Queen, Fourth
ftrett doceafed. are desired to make payment to
the fubferibers—and those who have anjr demands
against the said estate, are requcfted to lend ia their
Rceounts duly atlcfted for settlement, to
MARGARET THOMPSON,"} Adminiftratriz.
JOHN THOMPSON, 3 Adminifirator.
»ov- aj dim
James & William Miller,
No. 53, North Third Street,
Near Arch street, have the following articles for
sale upon moderate terms for calh, or the
usual credit.
Scarlet Cloths,
Low and middling quality, Mulberry and Green
ditto, White, Red, and Yellow Iriffi Flannels,
1 Blue, Green, and Mulberry half thicks. India ca
licoes, Gurrahs, Mamoodics, Guzzincs, and other
muslins, fancy and plain cotton hose, velvets,thick
fetts and fancy cords, sewing silk and twill of all
colours, ferreting, hair ribbon, coloured threads,
India flag bandanoet, and other black and colour
ed silk handkerchiefs, a variety of other cotton
do. Soute romals, red Gilla handkerchiefs, mo
-1 1 ecus, foan fpianing, fuftians, beavers, jeans, fa
tmetts and royal ribbs.aU'u muflincts and dimities,
ginghams, ladies' kid and coloured gloves; &c.
no*.ai dint
I
John Dobbin,
BOOT SHOEMAKER.
RESPECTFULLY informs his Friends and
the Public ill general that he carries on his
business at No 99 South Second-Jlreet, nearly op
-1 pofite the Men-hints Coflee-houfe where gen
► tlemrn maybe (\ipplied i* the ncatcil and heft
manner—he afTurts those who may please to fa
vor him with their comminds that no attention
1 or exertion 011 his fide (hall be wanting to render
him worthy of their encouragement.
N. B. Orders re*c;T*d will be punctually at
tended to.
November ; j
NOTICE:
• '
THE COPARTNER lIIIF OF •
HUDSON & YOR&E;
i» (kit d; »y dissolved by mutual corfent. All per
son» indebted to faH fifm are rcijuefted to make
immediate payment—a»4 those who,have anj de T
mandi are refuelled to prefeoc them for l.t tie neat
to WILLIAM HUDSON, who is duly authoriTtd
to ad;uft the lame.
WILLIAM HUDSON,
SAMUEL "YORK.E.
WILLIAM HUDSON,
NO. 54, Null I H FRONT-STKKtT,
. Has tor sale on the usual terms, a very
extensive aiTyrtment of
DRY GOODS. 1
d«c. 10. sw.
FOR- SALE
By the Sub/cribersy
ON VIKV LOW TZRMS
WAX CANDLES,
OF A lurttltit OUaLITV,
Either by the single box of 24lbs. or by the quan
tity.
Wtiling: IS Franch,
DOV. 24
* Wot i c e.
ALL Persons indebted to th« Eft ate of doe
tor Hugh Ilodg#, dereal'etl, are requelted
lo make immediate payment —and those having
demands against the Eflate are detired to authen
ticate and prcfent them to.
MARIA HODGE, adm'tniftratrix.
SAMUEL HODGDEN, adminiflrator.
nov gp V £
' Notice is hereby Given,
THAT application will b; mad* a) the Tr«a.
fury of c!ie United States, for the renewal of
the following certificates of Funded Debt, {land
ing in the name ot Robert Whit worth, of Chellca,
London, thefaid Certificates having been forward
ed by the ship Ellice, Hatvey, from London fjr
New-York, captured by the French, and fuppol'od
to be loft.
No-11437, 4 Per Celt. Stock, dated New
r York, 18th April, 1796, f«r Dollars. 1481,47.
No. 8171, 3 Per Cent, dated New-York,
18th April 1796, for dollars 400.
SAMUEL MILBANIC.
■ovemher 18 d6w
Notice is hereby Given,
j That application will be made at the
Bank of the United States for the renewal 01
the following certifiers as Bank stock, Handing
in the name of Hadgfon Atkinlon of London,
which were loft from on board the Swallow Pac
( ket, capt. Kidd, captured by the French, and all
perfonc concerned arcdefiredto take notice
> No. 2424, iflued in lieu of No. 1891,
189 a, 566s and 16640, for 4 (hare*.
No. 3010, issued in lieu ot 11055, and
11057, for 3 (hares.— 7 fheres.
THOMAS M'EUEN Co.
Nov. at djm
j amu i. uioiiahi) tMiiti,
HAVE this day returned from the country to
their STORE, No. 54, South Front P.rect,
where they here for sale, as ufual,a large and ge
neral allurement of European and Eaft-lcdia
DRV GOODS,
mod ol which have row arrived and are landing,
from the different vtflUi, from Hamburgh, Lon
don, Liverpool and Hull.
Their Customers by applying will find almost
every article generally imported, and at as law
> prices for cafli or credit, as they can be had elie
where.
e N. B. A few Cases of Nurenbergh TOYS, a
eonfignment, to be fold by the cafe only.
» Philadelphia, Nov. 1, 1798. dtf
Millenery Room,
N't. 136, Market Street.
TH R E E or sou r young women who are well ac-»
quainted with the Millenery business, and
can bring good recommendations may be employ
• edi y applying as above to
D. CHRYSTAL.
t nov. »6 __ §
Engliih wrought Nails.
Imported in the Jhipi Molly and Diana, from
j LIVERPOOL.
, 400 Calks of Nails,
CONSISTING of 6d, Bd, lod, ltd, and
lod, flat points fuhable for the foutheru
matket 6d, Bd, lod, nd, and lod, finedrawn
(harps—also a, j, 4, and 6 clouts—sprigs—.
8 tucks—liupper nails—flicathisg nails, &e.
1 ton SALS BY,
\ Robert Detti/on, junr.
r "7 Market-street.
For Sale,at the Stores of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
195 calks of nails afiorted
to bales as fail t«nvafi, from No. I to 8
5 3 calks yellow ochre .
■ 5 tierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 doz ea4k
r London particular) . . ....
India »irket j Made.ra W.nc.
Teneriffedo. in hoglheads and pip
Old Port do. in hhdi.
, Empty Claret bottles
, 6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, MuflineU he.
aflorted for the Welt-India market
r 4, 10, and 9 inch cablesand to coils at cordage
Writing fiates, ink flands aad prcfle*
1 at purcheoHs Jamaica rum
t I bale learning twine
160 bundles fheattiing paper
Nicklm & Griffith.
; »p ri| 7 tuth&r.tf
TO BE SOLD,
PURSUANT to the lafl will «nd teSament of
Micbail CATTs.deceafed, a valuable
Plantation & Traft of Land,
containing one hundred and ft venty three acre*,
the Tellator"s late residence, situated in North
1 Sufquehanna Hundred, Ceocil county, Maryland,
, about three mile- from the tide-watrr of Sufqu:-
. haana, and at a convenient diflance from feverai
. places of worlhip of Friends at d Prelhytereans.
, On the premifus are a Tan yard and eotvenien
. c es belonging thereto, in good repair ; a dwelling
-1 houf«, liable, orchard and oth. rim; rovementr,
r with I tor tj acres of good watcied mean w, and
a fufficient proportion if valuable timber.
For terms apply to the riber, in W«ft-Not
tingham, a : .>out 3 miles from the j remises.
I HUMAi WARING, Executor
iith mo, I; th, 1795$ j- - 1 1 t
PHILADELPHIA, .1
■, r. , ■" - ' c
THURSDAY EVENING, DECEMBER tj. t
m4> <y mm j
LETTER
From Sir Francis D'lvernois, t
to an American Gentleman, ;
ON THE | :
CONGEST or SWITZERLAND,
by the French Troops. |
SIR,
THE fate of Switzerland no longer ,
permits lioc tfi Jfcferanfweririg your letter, in
which will 1 such lively interest you express ,
yen; eagcrnefs to learn the news of Geneva, ;
and f met your solicitude andhopes (till to 1
find *fiat tl* Helvetic Body perseveres in
its fyft- "i of neutrafity.-—Tlie tenor of
your -ppia'ifi; of their conduct recalls to mi d
th: e. f-irium pafled on it hy Lord Lans
ilditt. " that human wisdom had taken re
fi: re-in the fpvereign Council of Berne."
I '-iv-n to ««ora, Sir, that with you and his
LircHhip, I had at times flattered myfelf that
in fcrupwloufly avoiding to give the least ,
umbrage to the belligerent powers, the Swiss .
Cantons would eftape the double fco.urge of
revolution and of war.
This illusiOn is vanished for ever : tlie fin
eft part of Switzerland is now nothing more
thArt province ps France. This power has
tsken from the Inhabitants, theif magistrates
their ljwj and property, :ind not content
with depriving them of their arms, it has de
stroyed even those monuments which brought
to their recollc clion the glorious purposes to
which tK-rr ancestors devoted them.
If yqu have received the French papers,
tin y will have already given you a' fufficient
idea t i this Icc'ne ofaefolation, to lead you
toconj jc~i j' what they have thought proper
to cor.cr..l. I be'ver could have the courage
to isalce' up the deficiency by such an horrible
rec! .al ; fc-.-t j flatter myfelf I shall fatisly
ysp'ur curici'ty aivl that of your friends, in'a
ukill it? inner, by tracing the dreadful
ca ?ftrnph£ ; t;-.c c v.-;fs to its original caufc,
th.' feeble and rndecided conduct of their own
government,'.
That of Berne tvfll be fufficient for me.
Fioin its pri jWjHuerance -tlie teag«»ev '»t has'
almolt Guided the reft df theconfctfo
r»t Cantc'ns'; and jfrom the divrlrohs of its
; vol wiil derive a faithful ini^'JJf
what palfed in the other cantons.
r since the ueginning of this centdryy
there has existed in the Sovereign Council of
feme, a party of oppofitioir-called fatr'ntt,
a.id it mult be admitted that in ordinary <tifnes
this party was eminerwly ufeful in restraining
the aristocracy and moderating it's power.
Butfince the crisis which yet agitates
these two parties became more marked and
diftinguilhed, one of them was denominated
the French and the other the Englj/b party.
Neither merited these insulting appellations,
both parties were exclusively attached .to their
own country,and differed only as to the means
of saving it from the storm with which it was
threatened.
TJiie oTtheie uirectcuny rh« advojw
ncr, looked upon a war with France, as in
evitable ; they few at least no other resource
to "avoid it, than that of being pcrfc&ly pre
pared*before hand and refitting witl* firmnefs
all innovations on tlieir internal policy, of
pr?fenting to foreign nations a firm and de-.
termined attitude, and of submitting to no
afts of cnndefcenfion to Republican France,
which had nbt been granted under its monar
chal state ; in Ihort, to observe faithfully to
wa-ds her, all their ancient treaties, but to
fnffer on her part no violation on any terms.
It, was on these principles, that Steigner
would have had the Diet in 1792 to have pe
remptorily exacted the evacuation of that
part of the Bifhoprick of Bade, which the
Trench troops had invaded, although that
State had a right to the confederated protec
tion of Berne to which it was ftri&ly allied.
The other party, at the head of which was
the treasurer Trilhing, wished on the contra
ry to avoid atl discussion which might pro
voke a rupture with France ; it believed that
in tlie midst of the almost universal Confla
gration of tlie continent, Switzerland could
save herfelf only by the policy of petty States
-—that of temporizing and delay ; that above
everv thing it w»s impftrtant to arrive at the
end of the war without taking any part in it;
that to reach the port as it was called, they
ought to conceal their grievances or at least
to throw over them a kind of veil, to com
plain of them with the greatest moderation,
x iid not to regard themselves as dilhonored
I>£ any aits of complaisance to which they
could submit without immediate danger.
This party, at firft the weakest, did not
fail tc obtain much influence, when the re
peated defeats flf tlie allied troops had fur
nilhed the most powerful arguments of the
?m|H)ffiUiUty ot tbe Swiss re Hiking by arms, a
ration which had vaaquifhed the bell troops
of Europe, and which was.cfceterifed b,y its
victories ; thus the poticyof the Bernois he
came hy degrees, that of tbe Confederates ;
and tliev were much less a ware of the foare
into which they were betraying themselves,
, ,<; France availed herfelf of it at firft with the
greattft circumfpeftion, for the evident r*a
fon that the neutrality of Switzerland cover
e.l her frontiers, on the atoll vulnerable fide.
However, the thirteen Cantons would in
ftillihly have opened their eyes on the danger
which awaited them, if France had not sent
them, for a Minister, her most able negotia
tor, and perhaps the only one capable of se
ducing them. I ought to explain myfelf ;
for in thus imputing to Mr. Barthfcmy their
ruin, Ido not pretend to fay, that he had
fore fee n it, much less, that he was willing to
be inftrumeaSil inefiecting it. He has been
the victim, even before them, of the fatal
ceunfcl* he gave.
In accepting his nomination to the dlrefto
ry, he has afforded tbe more fatisfadory
proof, that Re had abandons! himfelf to die
Lafelefs hopes with which he had lulled tfce
Swif. Magiilrates ; and this will explain to
•.cu how he proceeded in obtaining from them
•0 rainy ads to which they were fc avert.
[-} always fofL-ned the harshness by the mm- n
ler 01 acmanils, nor did he at cimes even a
I,(T mble, that he pei t'on-iUy disapproved ot
;hen , but he conjured them t<» temporise ; \
te tt>>d them that Europe rapidly approach- <
:d to the end of the Itorm ; that it deeply 1
roncerned the Helvetic body, to let it pals 1
without being drawn into its vortex ; that (
they would be exposed to .iofe the fruit ol
all the jklittts lutlierto made, if they retuf
cd-trrtain concessions .which were the uievit- <
able consequences of what had been before
others of a like kind, that he even obtained
the expulfionjof the hanilhed Prielts to whom
Switzerland had given art asylum ; but al
though Magistracy -were blind, the Swiss
people began to awake, and to feel themselves
degraded in the persons of their leaders.
For, Sir, you will agree with me that one
of the greatest crimes that can be committed
by the chiefs of a free people, is to ditgrace
them in their own opinion.
Without dpubt you were aftoniflKd at
the time, at the weakness of the Helvetic
Body, and at the aicendency which Mr. Bar
thelemy had acquired in its Councils ; but
perhaps you do not know to what a point
his personal morality, his wisdom and up
rightness, and above all the sincere interest
he took in the happiness of the Swiss, were
calculated to gain their confidence. I shall
never forget the lively impression he one day
made on me, on perceiving my aftonilhment
that a man like him, lhould consent to re
main, under the orders of Robepierre : he
condufted tne towards a map of Europe and
encompalTing with two fingers the space that
cOmpreliended Switzerland, he said, " No
you will not blame me in the end, if in thus
devoting myfelf I fuccced in preventing the
lava of this volcano from reaching this little
corner of the Earth, so happy and so worthy
of being happy."
Observe alio that at the fame time, while
Mr. Barthelemy obtained from the Helvetic
Government, almost all the concessions -wrtiidi
he Hemanded of them, he covered them
with his shield in aiding them, in d'ifcarding
the h emiflaries who came to revolu
tionize their people, and in rcfufnv;' decid
edly his support to all the revolutionary
Swiss* Hs did yet more ; lie had the ad
dress to persuade all the various factions,
which fucce (lively attained tlie feat of the go
vernment of France ; that the firll attempt
of the kind, which they lhould perpiit, would
pujli the diet to the del'perate resolution of
affording a paflage teethe German troops. It
was by thh do'uble service that Mr. Barthel
emy rendered Himfelf by degrees tbe media-i
tor between France and Switzerland, and
' that the people, whole heart he had truly
gained, fuffered themselves to be drawn im
perceptibly from concession to concession.
If by good fortune there l»d been sent at
fir ft a ralh and intriguing mi niter they would
have been apprised in time of their danger ;
and their prompt union with-the coalition
might poflibly have changed the face of af
fairs. But I repeat that Mr* Barthelemy,
who lulled them to fleepfo long on the brink
of the gulph of Deftractioa, so little suspec
ted its depth, that he precipitated himfelf
into. it ; for he accepted, as before ohferved,
l;.]— K:..* at
Paris, only because he considered the revolu
tion as finifhed within France, and that he
could consolidate it by accelerating a general
pacification. You may recollett, Sir, the
hopes that all Europe reposed on his concili
atory dtlpofstion> arid the great popularity
which followed him on entering France.
In vain was his modesty in attempting to pass
incognito, in order to escape the acclamations
and feliivals that were prepared for him, on
his way to Paris. Never was Washington
received with such flattering tefti monies of
esteem and gratitude,-_ But here terminates
parallel between the two nations. The fame
people who in the month of May prepared for
Bartlrclemy triumphal arches, four months
after saw him carried) as a vile criminal from
province to province in a fort of cage, with
out receiving the Cmalieft mark of pity or
interest in his fufferings, and the official pa
! per of thole who usurped his place now an
nounces as a proof of their humanity, that
having fallen ill, he has been trajifported to
the Hospital of Cayennee, where he ispcr
jiQly tvtlt taken tan of.
However Itriking may be this individual
example of the vicissitudes of a revolution, it
is nothing in companion with the cataftro
'phe of Switzerland. Hardly had the direc
tory rid themselves of Mr. Barthelemy, and
disarmed Austria, when they judged that an
opportunity had arrived of seizing the. tiea
fure of Berne, aid delivering up to pillage
that Canton, and those of Fribourg and So
leure ; a projeft which, they took great care
to conceal, until the moment when one co
lumn of the army of Italy, destined as was
said again ft England, arrived on the fron
tiers of the Pays de Vaud. AlthtJugh this
route was she natural march of the troops,
the illusion of the Magistrates of Switzerland
on this point was diffipa*ed, in a degree, af
ter the events thai took place at Paris on the
rßth Fru&idor. Those of Berne, even be
gan to replace their confidence in Mr. Steig
ner, when news from Paris announced to
theai-, that it was no longer the time to
have aecourfe to their councils, that they
must.sly to arms, that having waited the is
sue of the continental war, they were now
condemned to sustain its whole weight, and
that the array marched against them alone.
The Directory, not chooftng to trust
entirely to the bravery of this army, applied
themselves with the grated care,, to separate
the ariftocratical government from the peo
ple, and to take from them, if pofTible, the
support of their fubjedls, by endeavouring
to persuade the latter, that they had no other
view than to force the Patrician, families to
divide the adininiftration with the other clalTes
of citizens. This attempt produced no ef
fedt upon the German peojrte of these cantons;
but there was in that diftrid of Switzerland,
called the Pays de Vaud, a certain clals of
inhabitants amongst the towns-people, which
had a long time since been tampered with by
the Directory, who secretly offered them its
lupport. The only thing which restrained
them was the fear of faffing under the do
nimbi of France, jfi accepting her t
nlmance. , c
With a view to tranquilize th:s devoted j
xople, tie' Directory did not helitntfc to de- i
rlare, by their Minister at Batle, " that tar ,
from bciig disposed to make conquclV upon j
the Hehttic Body, or entertaining the Inrail- ,
eft defigi against its; integrality, the Frenc 1 1
Republic was determined to live in peace and ,
perfect larmony with the Swiss nation, and |
even toguaranty, in the molt solemn manner, ;
its independence and its freedom." 1 o g"' e
more wight to these declarations, the Di
re&tjry, four days after, seized an occasion
to fnpjrefs, with irracli clamour, some of the
Paris icwfpapers, against which was charged
a very h?avy crime, namely the intention to
calumniate the Directory, in imputing to them
views of invading Switzerland, contrary to
good faith. Hitherto, Sir, you perceive in
this ftrofce of arbitrary power, only the et
fi-a ofextreme delicacy and (enfibihty, which
had induced the French government to re
fute, with so much clamour, the Imatteft rh
fi nil at ion of a breach of public faith ; biit
read tfe last words of this incendiary arrete,
viz. " and tliereby frighten the Helvetic
people, with rel'pect to the conl'ecjuences of
those rteafures, which it would adopt, to re•
efiailijt them in the plenitude of their righti.
This was you perceived, a new
version of the famOus'decrce of the 19th ot
November, 1792, which, notwithftandkig
what certain writers have been pleased to fay,
has never been revoked, but is at this day in
full force.
But the Directory was not content with
this war of the pen ; for, at the fame time,
they otdered their troops to take poflelTion
of that part of the bishopric of Balle, into
which they had not yet penetrated, This
march phced the troops at the diflance only
of seven or eight leagues from Berne : and
then to compleat an insurrection of the peo
ple, and frighten the it was
notified tb the latter, on the twenty-eighth
day of D.'oemher, " that the members of the
governments of Berne and Fribourg Qiould
an Aver personally for the fafety of the per
sons an! property of the inhabitants of the
Pays d; Vaud, who had applied, and who
might ye', apply, to the French Republic, to
claim, by her mediatipit, the execution of an
cient treities, to the end of maintaining
them in cr restoring them to their rights."
I need hot inform you that there aever ex
isted any fvaty, either ancient or modern,
which authorized, in the smallest degree, the
interference of France in the internal affairs
of the cantons : but it may.'n'ot be ulevel's to
•recolleit that a few weeks before this menace
of'an armed mediation, Bilonaparte refufed
his interference to the Grifons, who solicited
; it to prevent the Cifalp'cpe Republic from
seizing on one of their provintes, and tot
whom he made this answer : " It is one of
our principles to intermeddle as little as jiof
fible with the affairs oi" other jjeople." Per
haps it may he neceflaiy to acquaint you that,
the inhabitants of the Pays de Vaud, to
whom France thus granted her mediation
with an armed force, were certain men who
had endeavoured to introduce into Switzer
land, the French revolution nearly aboui:
the lame time that youj government fup
r* 1 IT»JUjmw 1
That of the Vaudois was effected without
the efiufion of bfood, but the guilty were
judged according to the laws of their Coun
try, and the greatest part were exiled, or I
etc aped into France, where they solicited a
long time in vaia the protection of the Di
rectory.
The latter waited only for the termination 1
of the continental war to grant to their ex
. iles their public support. As soon as these
received die firft signal, they passed to their
partizans, who thereon, in ieveral of the vil
lages of the Pays de Vaud, ran to arms on
the tepth of January, 1798, planted trees of
Liberty, and proclaimed a Repilblic Lema
nique.
This fir ft- fccuepafled without resistance,
which is so much the more iurprifiiig, as a
great majority of the people, efptciaLly those ,
of the country, only waited for orders to fall
upon the insurgents, and nothing would have
been more easy, than, to have overawed them
before the arrival sf the French troops : but
the government of Berne llept in such per
fect security, that not even one of their bai
iifs had conditional orders to direct, in such
a cafe, the force of , > people, who should
remain iaithful to their government; and it
was by this unpardonable want of thought
that the loyal people were reduced to inaction:
abandoned by their legitimate chiefs, they
preferred the yoke of the revolutionary Vau'-
dois to that of the French loldiery, and re
mained pa (live, deceived by a proclamation
wherein General Menardaffured them, "that
his army approached the frontiers only, by
the effedt of its presence,. to prevent the cne
.niies of their freedom from fupprefTing that
noble enthufialin which elevated them to li
berty."
Scarcely had he learned that no one had
endeavored to suppress this enthusiasm, than
he pushed on with all his troops to JLau
fanne, where his firft care was to lew, by
way of loan, a subsidy of about £45,000
fterl. This unexpefled extortion, and the
irruption ofrthe French, began to deprive
him of the greater part of his partizans, but
this defection did not prevent him from pur.
fmng his march against the German part of
the canton. The coaimander in chief cauf.
Ed htmfclf to be preceded by another mani
fcfto, 10 which he repeated to the Beanois,
precisely what Buonaparte had declared to
the Italians.—l he French are your bro-
A plU , far a . Way from y° ur mind & all
diftruA ; they will refpeft your property,
your cuftome, you' religion, your indepen.
deuce : ask the inhabitants of tke Pays de
Vaud,"
While he th»s invoked their testimony,
these unhappy people in despair at haviu»
been duped by his. firft promise, efeaped
from all parti to join the army of the Ber
nois, where they collected to the number o£
ironi three to four thousand men. It was
thi, column, justly ca l] ed thc f allhfu , CQ _
umn, which atchicved such prodigies of va
lour, to efface the blot of their former in
anion ■> aad,it was, above all, that t* which
the meflage of ll* FrP" Djr »ry a'lad
td aur •-; ii.g the victory,they re- <
preftntcd itasfo much the more glorious, as ]
it was diff uted with tn.common bravery and I
j inconceivable fury. On the firft news of the I
invasion, the two parties of Berne were re- <
united to each other, and it is even laid, , j
that on this occasion the Treasurer Frilhing . i
deplored with nolefs candor than bitterness, I
the falfe policy which had plugged all Swit
zerland into so long and so fatal a security.
' Th#y now thought only of fighting, and
the militia of the .German country ran to
arms with an alacrity and zeal very proper
to caufc those senators to blu(h who had
not ceased to raise doubts of their fidelity
and their patriotism.
They demanded, with vehemence to be
to be led against the tnemy, a-d such was
the intention of thefr general D'Erlach 5 for
as he relied less on their difeipline than on ,
their valour, he knew the danger of luffer- |
ing their enthusiasm to cool by marches, :
and counter marches, the expediency and 1
objeft of which they would not have been |
sensible of, nor consequently did he accept ,
of the command but when inverted with full
and the tnoft wdirniW powers. Hardly had
he received them, but he refolvt-d on a ge
neral attack, fined the day of battlf, and j
made his rcfolution known to his troops,
who, although inferior in numbers, recciv
ed the news with iranfports of joy. After
what palled in the feqnrl, there is every |
reason to believe, that if D'Erlach had not |
been thwarted at Berne, or if the revocati- |
on of his full powers had not arrived till as- j
terthe engagement, the chances would have j
been at least equal.
And it is very evident that the French :
general entertained this opinion, fiuce he
haflened to propose an armistice, in order
as he said, to enter upon conferences for
peace. Would you believe it, fir I upon
this news, the Senate of Berne again fell
into its former indetermination, the party
who flattered themselves that peace was
yet poflible, reaffumcd its former majority,
and revoked the full powers given to
D'Erlach. From this moment all was loft,
and the militia bf-li- ved themselves betrayed,
nor only by the party which they accafetl
of being iftvoted to France,but by many of
theirmilitary chiefs, onrcceiving fron them
orders for certain retrograde movements,
which this new date of things rendered ne
cessary. These peafants,whofe ardent cou
rage was raised to thehigheft pitch on per
ceiving the enemy, and on learning that ihe
Saleurois had been -*ut to pieces, believed
themselves fold, when a retreat was ordered,
and in the firft paroxifms of rage, they fa
crificed several of their General Officers.
This is, without doubt, an indelible blot
on the charadter of the Helvetic people,
but it oughrtto fall entirely upon thofefcaßi'•
alousdivifioniin the government,which,after
having displayed so much wifdoni and capa
city on ordinary occasions, discovered itfelf
so unequal and pusillanimous in the hour of
danger.
It it a grtat misfortune, that Switzer
land did not on this occasion think of nam
■ ing a didtator, or that in its federal affocia-,
a* J town. j't» 1
calculable advantage oi an unity in the Exe
cutive.
You already know the deploraible conse
quences which remain for me to recite—
You kaow without doubt, that the French
General profited of this moment of univer
( sal confufion to make an attack upon all
points, in spite of the armistice, and he jufti
, ned himfelf for this breach of faith by writ
. ing to the Direftory—" In a position so
tritieal, I thought myfclf jiuftified to repel
| force by force, and not doubling their inten
r tion to attack, it remained on'y to me to
pi event it." In (hort, fir, you mull have
seen that according to his own confeflion,
the Swiss militia, diforganited as they were
when he made the attack, '« sustained with
incredible bravery five fucceflive aftionj, and
I scarcely driven from one position, but they
knew how to avail themselves of another,"
, Perhaps you are uninformed that in the
last of these five engagements it was the A,.
. voyer Steigner who biought back the Ber.
. nois to the charge, and that thi* chief of
, the Senate, indignant at feeing his corps
. debating upon the possibility of obtaining
peace, when the noise of the cannon was
heard even a: the gates of Berne, quitted
the Senate, where he presided, to seek death
at the head of the troops* However, it is
not true tha: he had the good fortune to
meetfuch a fate as hath been related in some
papers : the truth in, that he every where
braved death, and was on the point of end
ing his cxiitence so gloriously, when four
pcafants feivjng him as a fh cld, forced the
aged Statesman. into a car, and carried him
in lpite of his efforts, far from the field of
battle. The firft thing which the F.euch
did on arriving at Berne, was to confer, pro.
vilionally, his place upon his rival, the
Treasurer Frifhing j but they did not long
delay to d pose him, on perceiving that they
1 had been deceived by those who had deferr
ed him as their partizan. 1 am far from be
: lieving that he wa'one, and lam even con
: vmceti that he constantly held their princi
pie in abhorence. It is too true, however,
that a spirit of opposition. led him to contra
vene every v lg orous msafure which Steig
• P"?* whether to preserve
, the dignity of the natibnai charader, or to
> prepare in any event for the- common de.
- fence; but in short, and above all things, itis
1 too true that these oppofmons, and this fort
, of mteltine division, more than an? thine
• e i ,e ' to create a belief in the
: French, that they had a powerful party in
Switzerland, wha would support then, on
, their arrival. I even doubt, if they would.
j of entering the eou.ntry
i without such a iiope at this.
- . Fribourg became the viftim of the fame
violation ~f the armistice, of which I have
s before spoken. This city was attacked and
' j in the nridft of the night, u hen the
- r inhabitants h»d abandoned themselves to
- 1 um tr, on the faith'of the new conferenc
- 1W"1C" " 1C " the French General bad demanded.
• Tke letter in he has rendered ?r , c
. count or this < xploit, is a rery i«ftrua, v '.
i paper, efpecully when compared with ,]j
I the fubfequrnt manifeftoes, wherein L
; boasts of having been received as a bewfea
- or, by the majority of the Swif* Peafamry
, who had invoked him to assist them in fhak "
r J ing off the oppressive yoke of their nwj
, | urates : this fame general has written to the
- Direftory, that the Magillracy of Friburc
.' had acquiesced in delivering up the city by
d capitulation, but were prevented from doin£
o it for.£everal hours, bv armed peasants, who
;r entered unawares, domineered over the xo .
d vernment, and left no freedom in their delibera
y lionj.
It is painful to proceed in relating the
e reft of this mihtary expedi ion, which has
is been one continued scene oi deftruaion of
>r rapes. and above all, of plunder, undt'r a
n pretext that tbe neighbouring country a
. round Berne was not included in the capitj
5, | lation, which related to that piace : the rich
d | eft villages were abandoned to ihe soldiers
n | and the officers reserved to themfcives the
it ! capital, which they delpoiled with an avu
II ; dity, that surpassed the extortions of Gent,
d ral Maffena in Italy. After havirg taken
from the noble families all that they poffclT.
d • ed, which was capable us being seized, they
s, taxed them with enormous c >utributions ;
f. and in 'he jiift fear that they could not fatis
rr fy them, they arretted the priiicip 1 mem.
y i be>s oi thole families, hud f?nt tlkni ssliof
)t'j tagea to Huiungiict:, and to Strafbuurg.
i- | One would liiought however Ti\at the
f. | French would nave been f:tisCi.d with the
* | capture or ihe Public Tr.au.te, the wealth
! of which surpass.'d their bopes< fmce it has
h : been valued a. £600,000 (tiling. This
ie pradigiuus fi> n was the fruit of the otcono-
my of two centuries, and it would have been
>r snore than fufficient to put the coui.try in
m a refpe&ablc Hate of defence, if tbe govern
-11 ment of Beroe had been willing to open it*
y eyes upon the dangers with which it was .
is menaced. —But such was, fliall I fay its v.ant
f, o. foreiight, or its parlimony, that it did
:o not even think cf preparing surgeons for its
t, little army; and surely "if it nad made
j, use of such a treasure, and divided it
;d it am«ng luch of the confederacy, as were ■
as deftitui e of money, to enable them to pre
m pare tor the war, it is more than probable
0, tbe war would have been avoided, as this
e- treasure constituted the principal motive of
11 aggrefli.in the part of France,
r- The Diceftory however, has not failed
»e to declare " that the aggrefiiona of the go
d vtmrhent of Berne aod Fiibourg, compell
d, td their (fo«p3 coming from Italy, to e<i
a- ter these tersitories, and that the French ar
my had recourse to arms only becaafe it
ot was attacked."
e If, as I suppose 3fr, yon have reeeitcd in
America, the debates of the two councils
cr of Fraier, you have fcen that Lacoinbe
a . Saint Michael in the council of Ancients
.]f declared •• that the Executive power l»d
0 f only repelled an nnjis'c aggreffioß, that the
natio >al cockade had bren publicly i.ifulted
T in Switzerland, aftd that so many encroach
n. ments had doubtless a long iia>c before pro
a*. voked a declaration of war on tbe part of
n France, but far the Sacrifices they had con
;e. tintially made to prefcrve peace."
You will also have seen, that when they
came to deposit the Swiss colours at the
,e " , feet of the Dire6\ory, their •J'refideiit Mer
~ lin e-nfwered the officers who brought them,
" 1 that the French people hadbetome, at it were %
Tj the Phopidshce of the political world.
?! After such impiety, and what you know
of the French character, you will not be as
tonished that the successor u( Bartlielemy
, added to so many outrages that of farcalm
in ordering the Swiss immediately after their
n * defeat, to establish the liberty 0/ the pais,
t0 that'liberty of which his matters openly
ve boast that they have destroyed even tiie fmal-
n ' left remain?.
re To this irony the Dire&ory added one
not lift crue! —an engagement to rtfiort the
'd eflimablt Helvetic People to their former dig.
T nity.
" For some time it hesitated on the gover
le merit it fbould dilate;ltwavered outhecon
venience either of preserving feyeval fmallin
r - dependent Republics or confalidating them
into one. The latter opinion prevailed, and
?s a formula was sent from l'aris, which isno
'g thing clfe, but Copy of the French conili
a» tution, 3 nd which all the cantons and their
allies were ordered to accept, without the
smallest modification,
is Hitherto several of the little Cantons
t0 would not hear of any new organization, and
fhewsd Jiemfelv.es determined to prefers
rc their own independence, and all their anci
d- cnt forms. Before they would bve re-
Jr course to arms, they wrote to the Freni
General" that t!w Obligation of felf de
m fence could alone induce to recur t»
this desperate expedient : tliat they f J .' "
fed nothing but their liberty, noothtr ric
°* es but thtin flooks; and that they were rea
dy to give the French Republic every p c
1 K and every proof of devotiou
e y their liberty and their independence.
They were answered by a" exprefi or rr
ie * to confclidate immediate!* thpr ifl-cp tn *
,n _~ dence with that of the new Republic one,
indivisible, Representative, and democratic
-r, But all these high founding terms did not
" a '* impose on this fimpJe race of Shepherub, as
they had not abused tlierf independence,
ve they were unwilling to renounce it, and arm
to ed themselves to repel the French Genera.
e - He has already begun his march add 1
t" has not caused himfelf to be preceded by a
>rt manifefto, it is beeause lie has found it too
"S difficuh to name even the firoblance 0 a
grievance,.and too absurd to pretend that 1
was his wiih to overthrow ari(lo*r3cy J
on marching against the cantors of Switz, r )•
Id & UnderwaH—the only cantens which no*
Tf j hold otit. I doubt much if the Genera
j t'ie audacity to address to these three an
j tonit the manifefto which ha sent to t e peo
lve ' pTe of Berne and in whiih he has la|d
"d I vain do the Nobles, the Patricians, u ' c ,
I><* garchifls tell you that tluy ai;ni y°" °r-''
to cause of Liberty, William I el! f 1 < s
bis awful tomb; H« exclaims to ) ou '
si break your ch.B'n»- y eur
*arefcr.ir Jailors! th fci I'Vc.iehmeii are your «
75iv>lhers!"
Some persons filter thcmfeWe» that in *
t!S llMtgtrle pcrfimal courage will regain her '•
rijjhrs. beoatlfe the French will not be able 1
lociiid'iit intothefcrnggfd mountains either '
th'ir cavalry or their artillery, which have '
afforded them such advantages over '
the army of Berne. But the descendants of 1
William Fell ought not to count upoo their 1
ikfpair, a*>d I wi:l rot difi'cmble to you that '
I wait the news of the firft Battle with so 1
much the more anxiety as the cabinets of the
C ntincntal powers appear to look for the 1
result of this contfit with the fame iadiffer- '
ence, a>. for that of the revolt of the Bacha '
Pafwan Oglu against the Porte. I add not ;
without the most sensible griff, that the J
gr ateft partofths People of Europe seem
to behold the expiring sighs of Helvetic Li- '
perty, wiih the fameftupid Stare, that the
limplc Inhabitants of a Village regard, at a
public (how, the fictitious fpedacla of a i
dwarf combatting a Giant—l nevertheless <
except from this censure all Classes of the i
English nation, in whom this aggrefllon j 1
has caused such an indignation against the ; I
French, and a ftntiment of sympathy so ge- I t
neral and so strong in favc iir of the unfoi tu- j I
that had their rffiftanee bee" pro- I
longed a few days, a Subscription truly na- '
tional would have been opened to have ena- 1
bled'tl.enri to futtairi so unequal a contest. '
I doubt not, Sir, that the news of their ca- <
Mfirophehas p oduce !in America Gr.iilar '
impreflions.— I well kn-w that even before 1
this lali dreadful event, your Citizens, who '
at firft offered to Heaven their fincereft j 1
prayers that France might take her rank a- J
tnong free nations, have not been able to re- i '
frain from beholding as the mod abominable | 1
tyranny that which the Revolutionllls of j '
the day dare to call by the sacred name of 1
Liberty. ,The only confolatipn I experience '
in the preftnt moment, is, in thinking on
theihree people,who refill with so muchhor- 1
ror the empoisoned doCtrines of the French ; '
they are in truth the only three free people
in the Uv:ivrrfe ; the little Cantons of Swit- i
Zetland, the people of Great Britain, and t
those of theUhited States of America. How i
I delight to repose myftlf on this i ea. Ho- t
mage and glory to recal liberty ! It behoves i
ail those whq ari her true votaries to tear f
the malk from timfe base impostors, who
have dared to feixe on her Itandards, to '
blaspheme her name, and who would have
made her cdious if ever true liberty could '
have been rendered so jl
I believe I forgot to mention to you that 1
before the attack of the Pays deVaud, Men- f
gaud the new French Ambassador had exerted
his utmflft efforts to divide the members of 1
the Diet, and to break the bond of Helvetic c
Union.
* It fuccecded only in regard to Bade, and t
there merely so far as to caule an insurreCtion t
of a part hf the people, who leized on the ar- ]■
fenal on the rßth'of February, at the very a
moment when it was important to march to c
the relief of Berne, Fribourg, and Soleure, i;
the revolutionids. of Bade, who at the fame f,
time poflefftd themselves of the government, „
recalled their representatives frem the Diet t;
and.peifun<lfrl themielves, that by I'o signal tl
a fen-ice they had insured their claim to the si
everlading gratitude of France. But Heave n
you to ju'dge of thieir furprlle, wlien having t(
reclaimed a certain quantity of Brafc* that tl
they pe fie fled in the Ai-fcual of.-Berne, and J
which they prelumed the French had taken C
by miltakc, Mengaud answered theni'on. the v
l?.th March, " That he begged leave to con- t
gratukte tlicni upon tbe attention which they v
paid to every thing' tint related to tlieir own tl
interest, without feeling the lead anxiety "
about the carts and folicitudcs of tlie French «
Republic, aud without confiderin ;■ that his n
troops had m f,re neeel than they of tiie arti- y
ties reclaijnsd, for the tonqueli of freedom and r<
the maintenance of the Helvetic Republic." r
This was, not all ; for a few days after, h
this fame ?elei>gaud brought fcr.vard another fci
affair that had bee a long Gnce fettled, relat- ti
ing t» two citizens of Balle, againd whom g
France pretended llie had realons of complaint h
and who had fuffered a verdict with whkh a
Mr. liarthlemy had declared himftlf l'atisfied. tl
His fuecejpp affected to conGder this verdift ai
asan.aCtof deriGon,demandeda new hearing si
of the cause, and added " that he could not di
- conceal that he ihould confideras their accom- n
plices every person who should dare to raise tl
a voice in their favor." It was to this mef- si
sage that the new National Assembly of Bade tl
answered by laconically demanding if they gi
were to underdand by these words the perfoui w
of the Witnesses and of the Lawyers ? ra
It i., evident that a sentiment of indigna- cc
tion and rage forced from the Badois this re- m
ply, and I Ihould not be adonilhed if the re- w
morse yhich they have experienced from fee- ge
ing their confederation betrayed, dionldcar- fe
ry them veryTpon todifplay the fird signal of lc
repeiltance and vengeance. Sooner or later th
the insurrection mud burst out; never wHI ve
j ranee be able to restrain the general despair ty
r i the Swiss, but l>v a numerous army. lo
they are much too eiAiufted to pay such an Ei
army, and the country cannot furnilh its sub- R,
liUence. Whenever this army becomes en- tn
fee4)led, or removes to a didance, the Swiss itl
wjU know how to regain their independence • th
ahhough they are for thegreateft part -.nn- D
qui (lied, divided, plundered and disarmed, it or
itl out of the power of France to subjugate G,
thf.n ; and if llie does not succeed. in de- co
ftroyi.-ig their morals and national charadter th
liberty will again spring from her alhei.
However long this letter may appear, I
canr.o; prevail upon myfelf to finilh it, with- pv
cut [peaking to you of the deplorable fate of ve
CJcjicva. in which I fee you dill interest your- ou
feif in/pite of the crimes committed in 1794. we
It is very true these were more the crimes of of
P ; 7nee than of the people cf Geneva, who w]
dilavoved them, as far as depended on them p i;
Y revoking all tlie revolutionary judgments, de
h v dilrarding from public employments those on
'M O lirtd concurred in them, ;(nd by re-edab- th.
'vi a f->it ut calm, di;r;n the whole in- le
t val, which was afforded by the interruption cu
of the diforgaiiisingprc.je, of tiie Dirertorv. be
In February last when the troops of Gen- wl
tral 'i. .£ Vi.iid.iiiiJ a
amy. a. - •■" w«# jmme- i
Jis.tc inteied in f ou much lets
, 'had thev. aisv pretext, since it «.is corapletf- '■
« ly mumeipail**,l, atcotdiiig t;> the orders it e
iiad received—'! je Cicupvans forgot thei li
their'pad calamities, t > weep over thole which p
■ threatened the reft of Switzerland. Tlicon- »
■ Jy fear which tlv-y couid then enter- |
. tain was that of £ving tiiem/elvrs incorpo- *
rated with tht great republic, who might be C
, desirous of lome strong hold to keep Swit- 1
. zerland in check. But however apparent the i
. danger was, they c nfoXed themselves oh re- h
. 'driving the proclamation of General firune, r
, dated tlvc 10th of March, wherein he rejects c '
as a signal calumny, the supposition of a pro
. jest to conquer any part of Switzerland. No! j t
fays the General, the French Republic -wifha j t
to appropriate to tyrfelf nothing which belongs 1
, to the Helvetic Confederacy.
t A denial so formal calined the mod fufpi- 1
t cious Genevans,and they mutually reproach- |,j
i ed themselves, for having given way to such \ _
: unjust suspicions of the views of the Pirec- . L
t tory towards them, wlien Defpyrtes, the
: j French resident at Geneva delired a conlitlen
. | tial interview with thole citizens who stood 1
. I highest in the public opinion, to whose con
i GdeVation he submitted the lignal advantages , £
they would derive from being incorporated I
. with the Great Nation. Observe, the fame
turn of phrase is preserved which the agents
, of the Directory adapted three months before
• with the American Miaifters, that France did '
. not male the demand, but thought it would be
, more delicate that the offer should came from J
; j them. Delportes added that if they had tiie ; ,
. | wil'dom to enter into his views, and to an-! ,
. j ticipate his wilhes, in expreifitig it as their f
. J voluntary and spontaneous delire, lie wasau
f j tlioriled to grant them the mod advantageous '
r conditions, among others, exemption from *
all military requilitions during the pa I'.at 1
war, the preservation of their warlliip, of '
their academy, of their hospitals, and of j
their property individual and national, Sec.
The citizens he addressed hinifelf to might j
indeed have demanded, upon what- ground j
the French Republic was likely to hj,va a t
• more sacred regard for this lecond treaty,) t
. than for the promises wliicli the had. formerly r
i made, never to make any attempts on their c
■ political independence ; promises to whfcli t
i die had given thegreated folemnityaud. pub- i
, licifcy by fufpendiug the dandard of Geneva r
: by the fide of that of the United States of 1
| America. But they contented themselves t
with requiring from him an explanation of p
the nature of those dangers to which a rffu- t
, sal would expol'e them. " I will not diffem- t
ble, replied he, that Geneva would)>e treated r
as a slate againfl which France has heavy b
causes of complaint."
Their condernation was. at she highodex- f<
treme ; but the danger of the monient united
the citizens of all parties; not one voice was P
heard to comply with the define of France ; (
and the aflembly of the people appointed a f 1
commission composed of all tlie magistrates n
indiscriminately, to deliberate on njeafures '*
for saving the Republic. Unanimous in the c
refolutipn of defending the independence <4'
their country, and above all never to make a
the faerifice of it voluntarily, these commif- w
Goners resolved to accede to all the other de- t'
mands excepting that one : such was thfc 1
tenor ot a note in which they anniui.cul to
the resident of France, toward; t'l-ru Wvf v
March, "the difpolition of" t'lje people of t!
Geneva to enter into every arrn!: ir
which might be agreeable to the Great.
tion, with one fmgle referee ; a reserve 'cf f
which they alone could property appreciate
the value, tiiat of their political independence. r '
" The resident, enraged at this note, which 11
was, ill effeA, a redoubled thb 71
measures ofjrigotir for the blockad.- ofGeneva, I
which, Ghee the occupation, of Savoy, is fur- *1
r<mnd'-d on every fide by the iVench territo- r;
ry. He went farther—he informed the in- «
habitatys that it they did not chufe to ne'jo- f (
ciate with good grace-with him, they might al
treat with the victorious army, then at their lr
gates." As they had declared to him before- »
hand that they would not have recourie to i
any physical refinance against open force, but '1
that they would prefer the peril of such an t{
attempt to the dilgrace Of erasing themselves G
from the number of sovereign and indepen- ni
dent dates, this menace neither intimidated P 1
nor disunited them. It is truly remarkable, »l
that at this period, when it was not to lie ti
filppofed that the resentments arising from fe
their political diflentions were quite extui- P 1
gui (lied, and under tV distress of a blockade,
which ruined the lower clafles of people by
railing the price of provisions, the fear of be
coming Frenchmen, and the ardour to re
main Genevans, was such that not a voice
was railed, not a whisper was heard, to fug
ged a wifli of union with France. For some
few days the Genevans had a gleam of hope ;
letters were received from Paris which stated,
that the conduct of the Directory was' uni
verfaily censured (even by the Jacobin par
ty) that every one there blamed this fcanda- t) '
lous abuse of power against the firft state of .
Europe, which had acknowledged the French W
Republic, the firft with whom it had made a
treaty of peace, the firft who revolutionized C °
ttfclf to pleale France They added-that
the lalt remains of lhame would restrain the '
lJirectory, that all the memb.rs d.d not agree Z'
on the expediency of this attempt, and that
Geneva would yet be saved if she could fut
ceed without a rupture to reach- the end of n °
the preGdency of Merlin.
Was it Merlin who suggested this indi- in
° tr< ; a£ ', nS for the fame th,
veSTs ' a Of' rt t K e T tUpt ° rS sthe5 the A >™» bv
S* P s th ' s 1 ignorant, but he
g to ,IHve known that the Genevans vo
which
vluch tht\ had placed their fortunes in the M
dependence, if one may so call it, was the of
only thing Ihe had left them, aid even if de
they had been m a (b«te to pmchafe j t3 M
ler\ it was too ewdent that the firft" pe- civ
be'thP f'" Ce ,U: J ******* vrouli Se
whirt-r nf ti,C lt a tribute,
,C n-c:Uary tp itp^ataslong
[ as there were, avuciclous iitcn at t'ue h?at»ipf tl
the l)iieftory or the French Minilin". i tl
i Be this us. ic ma)', the He-tident Defportes t!
. liegan to aluinTr more and more a thrsatnin - * : n
: «>ac- ; only one month had jiaiVcd i
i line? the nejociution coimxiented, he toin
-1 pi;iine"d v.-. Ji their amufiny him ivith delays
. a nil of tlifir dv.'in'J to treat with him a-la
- Mcdmeslury—-ilis fomjilaints produced no
. more eft tl- uuht efforts, by which he en- P
■ i!-r. lo.'uy-'id' tin* parties and rckiiwlk*
. certain pa'fTwrs not.quite extinfl. The peo- j,
iple, remained (inflwVw ia their refufal, tlity al
- higiily approved the ccjiilanee of their com- tc
, milfioners, and renewed their powers on Su<i
, day l <th April.
Whil' they were jxaceably aflembled in
/ | the jreat Church and proceeding, according
s; to the mod? prdcribed, to the completion of
s the above huiinefs, three columns of Erer.fji
j troops prcl'-nt.'d themfclves at the Gates, as
_J if intending*to pais ttie lihorie which they
_ | had frequently done on other occasions.
u : This time, infbad of paflinpr through the &
' ty they eftal.'liHied themll-lves in it, 11-ized
upon the military j>o(\s and placed private
centinels in every street to cut oil' all cum
j munication. It was hot till fix o'clock tu
the evening that they permitted, or rather
that they ordered the coinmiffioners to alTem-
| ble. This body, no longTr hefitafed to de
, i cree, that it was time to treat of the union of /
Geneva with France. And the Relideiu!
wrote tlit 'i.- x* day to Paris that Geneva was
j in the height of joy -and hippinefs and that tie
e Genevan branch was worthy to figure in the
French fasces.
There is on; anecdote which is worthy of
I being preferv. d, and ought to serve as itef- I
: foil to the jacobins of all countries. The rl
! fijft ail of authority of the French general
on entering Geneva, was immediately to re- «
-pair % to two Genevan jacobins and "
■| to dilTolve theli* locictics. You v/ill com- "
prehvnd the cause, fir, when I mention that "
'. thele revolutionists who had n.ot ceal'ed for ~
fix years to exult in the principles, the vie- •<
torics, and the magnanimity of .the great
t nation fbewetf themielves to be the most dei- "
i perate in th ir resistance, when thev law that "
1 their own connfry wus doomed to be the vk
. Tim of thefc principies ; and as the jacobins
poir-fs every where an eminent degree ofen
' erijy they ould have been disposed to redeem
1 their pad d-'lulions and their crimes by fly
• ing to arms and facrificing themselves in 9 '
1 refiflancc which could have been of 110 avail.
I The refideijt of France, app re hen five of the
' tonl'equences of their despair, offered to the '
f party oppressed in 17.94., to avenge them of
- the innocent blood wjiich had been filed jit
- that epoch. But they rejected this offer on
i recolleaing that no blood had been Ihed but
-1 by the exjirefs orders of the Reiident Sou
lavie the predecelfor oi him who now propo- y<
. fed to them to demand an account of it. in
i Whatever may be the cauie, the members "
i sis these jacobin clubs are hitherto the only y(
Genevans who have experienced the leaftper- g!
ional vexation on the part of the French ar- i "
my. Their consternation is that of rage, 'la
while that of the other citizens is gloomy, in
concentrated and silent.
I have jufi received the treaty of union ex
acted at the point of the French bayonet, and
which.fchg councils of Paris will doubtlcfs ra- -J
tify at this moment, as an aft perfeftly free.'
The following is the firft article : ™
Thg French Republic accepts the wish ;
pi die ci tizens of the republic of Geneva for ~
their union with the French people."
" The French Government, considering
that the undernamed I. Mallet du Pan, F.
P'lyernois and I. A. Duroveray have pub
licly written and intrigued againlt the French
republic., declares that they never can be ad
mitted to the honor of .becoming French citi.
zens. 1 n.-ed not tell you, Sir, how rmich' p
1 glorv in ia-ing my name distinguished by
this brilliant reprobation in the death war
rant of my .unhappy .country- lam inform
ed that the second part of this article delayed A
for leveral days the conclufidn of the treaty,
and that it was not without difficulty, that F
iny fellow citizens obtained that it Humid be
mferted not in their name > but-in that of
France, and as one of her wilhes. Alas!
they ha-ve, however, but too nrtich reason
to reproach me for having negociated and VV
ligned a treaty in 1792, which disarmed Ge
neva and Switzerland, and which was so
promptly violated by the employers of Gene r- T,
al Montesquieu :-> however honorable this
treaty was in itfelf, I shall never pardon mv
felt-for having trusted a single moment to the
punic taith of the French Revoiutionifts.
I am Sir, with rtfpeft,
Your very obedient and
very Humble Servant,
F. D'IVERNOIS. /
London St. James' Place, •
28th May 1798. £
CONGRESS. "a
The answer to the President's speech, re- lu
ported yesterday in the House of Reprefenta-.
tives of the United States, this day, palled
through a committee of the whole, and after
wards through the house, without opposition.
—lt was then resolved, that the Speaker, ac- ~
companied by the members of this house,
present the said address to the President, and L »
that a committee be appointed previoully to '
wait on the President, to know at what time '
" ™ J? 6 c " nvenient for him to receive it. H
Meffi-s. Dana, Harper and Venable were
nominated a committee accordingly. the
On motion of Mr. Harper," the House for
then proceeded by ballot to fill the vacancy
in the committee of manager l : forprofecutin->- bit
the impeachment of Mr. Blount, occasioned ot 1
by the removal of Mr. Sitgreaves. P"
Mr. Kittera, having a majority of the reu
votes, was declared duly elefted. Ms
A meflaje was received from the Senate an.
i!r T"?' t^at t ' ie umm °ns ifiued last Tr
March.for the apjjearance of Mr. Blount, ht
to aniwer to the impeachment of the house ot !
Ot Representatives for high crimes and mis- 1
(fcineanors, had been duly feirod on the said
\. fount, and tlrat a return therefrom was
Wntered in the office of the Secretary of the Ap
Senate. r
This MoltxM,
In House of Representatives of tills state, '
I
the reflation for a-ldrsfSfiOf the Prrlident of;
j the United States in terms oif fatisfjlltpii at
5 the m >, "fi>re r , of his by I
f a eordiderahte majority.
FOR BRESfEN,
; SPECULA! lON,
. AREMO Whtino, MASTIK,
NOW laying at Henrr Pratt's wharf, the firft
below Riceflrttt—(he is a Bremen hottftai ; two
hundred and twenty ten» burthen ; wilt (ail wkh
' all pofli'jlc d.fpatch—For freight or paftage apply
to
PRATT y KINTZING,
no. 95, north JVater-Jlreet.
i- Who have for sale, a variety of
( GERMAN GOODS,
1 TIZ
5 Ticklenbtirghs Patterhornes
Oznabrgs Checks
Heflian# Stripes
Brown rolls Slipptrs
{ Coffee bags CamVricks
Phtillas Twine
Rrlttinias Glass .tumblers
Eftopailies Port wine
J Crea* ali Morll'X Window gl jfc
r Bielctield liner. Brimih>ne > & .
Dorolas
decemher 17 th.f.j .m®.7u'
f DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO IVIT:
s be it remembered,
THAT 011 the tenth day
L. ot December, iu the twenty third
year of the Independence of ths U
s nked Styes «f America, JOHN
LAMBERT of the said Diftn'3, haul depifited in
J this office the title of a boo!;, the right whereuf he
j claimsas author in the w r.ls following,to wit \
" A fc»rt and ('radical i.{tty on Farming ; be
- " ii.g the experience vf a firmer ef shout sixty
.1 " years of -gc, near forty ysari of wheh ware
- " spent in England, Eflex' county, on land where j
t " farming i< dare in the gnateft perfection, i
" and near seven yejrt on three hundted and | ,
" twenty acres of worn-r.ut land in P< ttfgrove and : !
- " Alloway creek, ia Ss'em, county, Wcft-Jerfey—I 1
t " .Skewing rhe means wherehy these worn-out ! 1
- " lands may be improved, and that th« means arc !, I
t " in the power nf almost every farmer."
In conformity to the aft of the Congress of j
th* United State*, intituled " An adl for I
3 the encontagement of learning, by fecuriug j
th: copies of niajis, charts and books to tl)e |
i authors and proprietors of furh espies du- j
■ ring the terms therein mentioned."
| D. CALDWELL. ;
Clerk of the T)\Jlr:3 of Pennsylvania.
. d«c. 13 iaw4w : '
:' ~~ a '
t .. AND PRACttCAL '
■% S S yn.j
l .OH , ..■?
FARMING:
'! BEING the experience of a farmer of about sixty
• years of a~e ; near forty years of which were spent
in England, Essex county, on land where farming
. is done in the greatest perfection : and near seven
r years on three hundred and twenty acres of worn
but land in Pottfgrove and Alloway creek, in (
" . Salem county, West-Jersey :
j Shewing the means whereby thef* worn-out '
, lands may be improved ; and that tht means are '
( in the power of almost every farmer: I
Printedfor the Author,
AND SOLD *.
I BY ZACHARIAH POULSON,
Chefnut-Jireet, Philadelphia.
> ! N. B.—Same of the large fort of Clover feed
I may be had at Mr. John Cooper's, baker, no; ts2
i Race-street.
M december 13, iaw4W j
Just Publiihed,
AND IS NOW OfFERtD FOR SAL* BY
B. DEFIES,
At No. 68, High-street,
; THE AMERICAN REPOSITORY,
AND
ANNUAL REGISTER,
For the Year 1799 ;
Containing complete an J correal lifts of the
Executive, LegiflatTve; and Judiciary De
partments of the General and State
Governments
A {Lreat variety of ufel ul Tables, neceflary to be ,
known in every State of the Union
Fmlellifhed with a handsome engraved |Fron
tifpiece.
• Pec. 13 j
Prime Sugars^
Will be landed from the Enterprlze, captain 1
Lingdon, lying at M rris' wharf, t
Forty one hogsheads of
Jamaica Sugars, of the firft qual- -
ity (entitled to drawback)
For sale by
Wharton £s* Lewis,
no. 115, iouth Front ftr. i
dec. fdiw
NOTICE. ~~
ALL perfor.s indebted to'the Estate of Sam
uel VVallis, esq. of Murcey township,
in the county of Lycominp, lately deceased, are f
hereby required to come forward immediately c
and pay their refpeaivedebts.— And all persons J
having legal demands against the Eflate, are a
requeftrd to produce their accounts, properly t
authenticated, for settlement.
JOHN WALLIS,
WILLIAM ELI.IS, f Adminlftra- n
, DANIEL SMITH, C tors. V
JOHN ADLUM, )
decemher 13 jtaw4w
AN ACT,
Limiting the time within which claims again!) _
the United States, for credits on the books of *
the Treasury, may be presented for allowance
BE it enaftcd by the Ser.ate and House of Re- 1
prefentari-ves of the Vnittd State/ of Ameri
ca, in Congress assembled, That all credits on
tbe books of the Treasury of the United Staaes,
for tranfaflions during :lie late war, which,
according to the course of the Treasury have
hitherto been discharged by ifluing certificates
of registered debt, shall be forever barred and
precluded from settlement or allowance, unless
claimed by the proper creditors, or their legal
representatives, on or befare the firft day of
March, in the year . ne thousand seven hundred
and ninety-nine. And the Secretary of the
Treasury is hereby inquired to cause this A ft to
be published in one or more of the public papers
. of each state.
(Signed) JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the lianie of Representatives.
THEODORE SEDUWICK,
I'rcfidtnt of the Senate. Fro. Tem.
Approved July 9, 1798.
JOHN ADAMS,
Present of the United States,
December 13. w t ift ,V.
'
I r '♦ r ,*#? . M I* A *i #
of- P-QR
at f3bl , tH>: >H.vi.n s:u; MOLL's,
>)' ' Burrh'sti Thns;
A ftcfct well-found V.'fTel. She !< not?
~ 10 rec '' ve 4r C-u'ifo, and will
fail o-* the jirft opening of the river.
• Three-fourths of hir being already pro
videU—for Freight (t>r the remainder, or PaJTagr,
apply to
-NICKLIN & GRIFFITH.
dec. is. tutbft« tf.
* NEJV A 6VE LS, PLA TS,
* MAGAZINES, fctf.
Chalk's Circulating Library.
Ae. 7J, North Tbird-Jlrect.
THE Proprietor, in compliance with his pfo
mifes to render this Institution a complete
fouree of rational amusement and inftru<flion, by
repeated acquifitiom of eatertalninjj and interef.«
injr publications, has now added to his former
colleflion Four Hundred Volumes of miferlla
nenus works, comprifin * nearly all the fotejl
publi/i.ed Novels and Drpmatif preduflions
ratalnugcs of which are ready for delivery to
fuhferibers.
N. B. Subscribers, and others, who still re
nin Boiks taken from the Library firevious to
the sickness, are lequefted to return them imme
diately : the fines will be charged frotp the 14'k
of November.
i; English & American Playing Cards,
Sahl Wholesale and Retail.
iyS" Wholesale dra'ers fuuplied with lIoJTOH
,y Cards at the fame pj! -es as it the manufaflorv .
Fipr flavored Imperial, Young Hyfoui Hyson,
■j. Ilvfon Skin, and Souchong TEAS.
N dec. io. tmlw
in ■ 1 1
lie Forty Dollars Reward,
LOST on Thursday last the 6thlnftant«
L y in Market Street,between 5h & 7th fltfeets;
te a Red Morocco pocket Book, containing fix
re BatikjNotes for Ffty Dollar- each, and small
n < | Notes for .one H'ltidred and Ten Dollars
'j also fundrwreceipts and Papers of no use
_ but to the Owner—the about reward will be
ut given to any I'erfon, who delivers the fame
re '[. to Messrs. Isaac and Luke Morris, Brwers,
No 4 Pear street, or to th<» Subscriber in
' ; Laccafter Coutity,
Ji" ISAAC CAFFMAN.
I,e dec.ember 12. tnlhScitf
u- ———
, h . Notice.
ALL persons indebted to the Es
tate of tfq decealed, are request
' ( *° tpak£i,nwner|i»t<; payment, and those havmga
ny demands aßaioU (aid Efbte will plrafe to furnifti
f their accounts duly attested or feitlemen- to
... ; J GEORGE DAVIS,
\~-. *r: 3 .1} 7 Attorney in faft to
■-> . JOHN M'KIM, ir. Ari'm'tr.
nec. lg. 2w6w
"" ' . U ' " '
ty Insurance Company of North America.
5 THE STOCK HOLDERS,
#- are hereby informed, that a stated meeting
in of the Company will be held at their Office
Bt on the Bth of January next, (being the fe
re cond Tuesday iu the Month) for the elec
tion of twenty-five Direftor* for the ensu
ing year.
E. HAZARD, Sec'ry.
Dec. 12 th.
To the Creditors of the Sub/cribers.
.. PLE ASE TO TAKE NOTICE, that we have ap
-1 P r !" ' he j"**" of tbe Court of Common
I leas, tor the benefit ol an aft of afltmbly, paff-d the
- U Ap,il L' fti A ai,tl t J" y h,Ve WW*-
THLRSi)AY the 87th mft. to hear us and our Crc
ditou, m the city of Philadelphia, at fiich place
whew the Court may be held, and wnere you may
attend if you please.
PATRrr K C <V>M^UGH,
JAMES DOUGHERTY,
PETER G. ROSE,
JOHN GREENE,
LEWIS D GR AFr,
JAMES M CALLEY.
le RICHARD STOKES,
dec. 8 w
This Day is Publiihed,
>e ANDIOKIALtBYJ.FENNO, [I(] I CKEtNVT-&1 H l£T
AN ADDRESS
'TO tbe People of Maryland,
ON the origin, progref. and prelent flats of
_ French aggreflion, with a .fketfh of the infamous
attempts to degrade the Government of the United
StMcii, and some reflections on tlje late proceeding*
in Congress; written the lafl of April in the pre
n fcnt year, by a Member of the HoVe of Reprefen
tativ«s. 5 june 11
This Day Publijhed,
- And for file at the office of the Editor, No.
119 Chsfnut flrtet,
f Price i-itb cf a Dollar,)
AN ORATION,
Pronounced July 4,1798,
'rt ereq " cft ?* the Inhah tants of the Town ®f
BOSTON, in commemoration of tbe anni
versary ol American Independence.
" By Josuih purser.
>< " The inroadj upoh our public liUerty, call
« For reparation—The wrotigj we have sustained,
Y call tor—Justice. 'J hit Kepsration and that
" m *y y et be Obtained, by Union, Spirit,
c and Firmness. But to divide and conquer wi9
y the maxim of the Devil in the garden of Eden,
and to disunite <nd enslave hath been-the princi
ple of all his votaries frcm that period to the
present.'*
Observations on the Boston Port-Bill, &c.p. 7 g
by the late J. %uihcy, jun.
august 11
t IMYorted,
f From Hamburgh, Bremen, and London,
e "»'o* «AI.I BY TBE iVH-Klßttt,
. An aflortraent of German Linen»,
CONSISTING OS
> Ticklenburgs
, Ofnaburgs
, Wefcr linen
: Checks and ftripen
9 Bielefeld linen
[ Urown filcfias
i SileGa lawns
1 Siamois, &c« &c.
| 150 Boxes of Claret.
5 lioxes of hollow glassware
J «« casks of Ruflia bridles
( ALSO ON HANa,
i Bqx of Irifli I^iaens.
I Tmnklilk goods
I Box of Gingharr,
. And a comply ajforiment of
English,. Buttons.
& Lew Bollmm,
' never. W.o ,C0 '
eeis:
. ** •rs-cn - -71 vl—:i I s—l-r mc-~ ~• * |
SHOEMAKER hf BERRET l'i
lUVF Rt MdVrO THEIR
INSURANCE OFFICE
to No. 9, fuuth Frbut street.
Their riW'n at the Coffee-honfe will continue to
Be a»t'nded from 1 a till i o'clock in the day, and
' :'oni 6 to 8 o'clock in the evening.
JACOU SHOEMAKER,-
Has also removed hii Counting koufc to the
lame place, 4rhere he has for sale a few pipes choice
London Paaticular Madeira Wine ; French and
spanifli Brandy ; Claret in casks and cases, of fa
perior quality, and a few Packages trial's and
QueenVwarc ;'alfo, a quantity of Carolina Soal
leather, which will be fold Very lo# to clofc the
sales.
Philadelphia, it mo. ij, J
THE CARGO, ' ~
Of the Shu> INDIA;
Captain Ashmead, from BAT AVI A,
Consisting if
JAVA COFFEE,
Of the Fiift Quality—to be Sold, by
LEWIS.
, dec ti diw
FOR sale;
BY THE SUBi CRITkRS,
i' 4 Tour pound Cannon, Afferent lengths,
5 Carronades. - '
JOHN NIXON & CO. I
Dec mber 1. §
' TO BE SOLdT~ j
A quantity of choice 1 imot/jy & Clover
H A Y.
Enquire of the Printer.
For sale by the Subferibers,
The Cargo of the Schooner
Sincerity, from LAGTJIRA,
»jO feioons of cotton
40 ft do of indigo
522 funcgas ot cocod
2Cj6 hidei
4 bundles of gum
38 barrels f COFFEE
I bale of Deer (kint
IVMings & Francis.
(lecmibi'r ic. 1798 *lrf
The Jjubferibers
iiave received by the late European arrivals, the
Following Merchandize,
Shipped them principally on couligmnent, which
they otter by paeknge to Wholcfale Store Keeperi,
or others, on very adTantageouw t«rms, for cafli,
uppro\cd notes, or bills of exchange on London.
Medford & Willis,
SO. 78, North Front Street.
IRISH LINENS.
Printed calicoes, furnitures, purple and colored
$ shawls
Mullins, j 1 ain* flriped, checked and fancy
Bala lore, jaconet and hook handkerchiefs
Pins and lundry haberdafnery
Scotch and colored threads
iicarlet cloth cardinals
Ourants and calamancoes
Worded, cotton and fancy lioAery
Felt, castor and beaver hats
Yorklhire plains and broadcloths
Plain and twilled coatings andduffilU
Callimeres and fwanfdown: :
Stripe, point and role blankets
White colored and Welih flannels
Knapt Kendall cottons
Worsted and mohair pluflies
Pewter, afibrted in small casks
Spades, (hovels, frying pans St ironmongery
An invoice of Watches 3c.
100 calks nails afibrted,
nov ii $ (
Ttlt i ARTxtHSttl? dt *~*
Alexr. J. Miller, SjPCa
"I)EING diffiilved on the firlt inftair, by the
death of James Davis, all persons indebted
ro the fame arc requested to little with the sub- '
f riber, and thofetft whom they are indebted are
1 cquclted to call on him for payment. (
ALEXK. J. MILLER, <
N». 64, South Front flreet. '
Who has on hand, 1
' i
TO Bt DliroSlDOf ON IOWTUMI, j
By the Package or Piece* .
Fine plain and tamboured Muflini ]
Guzzenna*
Baf'tas ;
Coflaes
Rabobgungies
India Callicoes
Book Muslins
Coloured ditto
Ueal & Mock Madras ic pullicat hkfii. I
Brown S/lefias ,
Ticking's, isfc. isfe. ]
JUST ARRIVED, (
am assortment or
Iriih Linens & Russia Sheetings. r
nova 8 » 1
FRESH FRUITS.
Tlifs diy. will be landed at Hamilton's
wharf, from 011 board the brig Eliza,
captain Vaughan, •
MALAGA FRUITS,
Of the best qualify, coufiiting of
Sun Raising in kegs,
Mufcatcl and Qloome do. in boxes,
Figgs in kegs and boxes, «
Soft (helled Almonds in sacks, '
Jordan do. in boxes.
Lemons ia chcfts,
Anchovies in kegs,
Prueiit iu boxes,
A few jais Grapes, Ac. Ac. i
Also on hand, I
Holland Geneva in pipes, 1
Sherry Wine in quarter calks,
French and Spanilh Brandy in pipes *t»d
butts. (
* JW'l Olive Oil iu boxes of it bottles.
For Sale by PETER KUHN, ,
No. 179, N. Market Street.
December 6. diot J
GOOD WAGES
f AVILL be given to a servant M*n, wh<
can brir.ya d Vwtomnienjlitlon, and w ill
pplv at N.- 131 Walhut-Jlrtct,
dJc. 11. dtf .
—
Wants a Pl;y:e,
A WOMAN with a good Bread of Milk,
Enquire at No. 58 South Front llreet,
_ Dec. 10.
I Dancing Scrtool.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL prefcnf* hi. ref
prclful c MnpUmcuts to the public : takes
til" lil'ertv ot irfo-nting tlum, that at the requclt
of many of hi? former employer?, he will open
his School, at his Sall Room, in Fourth, bet
ween Chefnut and Walnut (lreets,on the fir it Mon
day of Diccmber—-For Young Ladies at ten
o'clock in the (Horning—and for Gentlemen, <at
lix in the evening! of Mondays, Wedr.cfdaya and
Fridays.
Nov. 28 conn
All'persons
Indebted to the Estate «f Mr. Johk FiN'NO,late
of Philadelphia, dceeafed,aru dtfircd to make pay
me»t, and thole having any demands, to present
them for l'ettUraenf, to
SAMUEL BLODGET, Adm'r.
or
JOHN WARD FENNO, Agent
to the administration.
rov. 3o s.tm
Lancaster County Butter,
IN KEGS,—FOR SALE,
Enquire at No. 92, Market-llreet,
near Third-Street.
dec r §
WOODBURY ACADEMY. ~
THE Trufleesof the Woodbury Academy?
in the c- Uiitv of Gbuceller, New-Jersey,
' hsvt the fatisfaliion to infonn the numerous
I patrons of that inilitution, that they have en
| g.'ged tie Reverend Thomas Pitlan, to be :hc
, piincip.il, and to take u;k>ii iiimfelf th« charge
' of the above seminary of learning, and that the
Icli'jol wifl be opcued on Monday the tenth inft.
Among the exercises taught here, will be the
Engli/b, Latin and Greek languages, gramati
cally.—Reading, limiting and Arithmetic in all
. its branches; Stentgi ashy, Geometry, Geogra
phy and the uft of the Glob:.i, Navigation, Sur
viving, izfe.
This inilitution was formerly undtr the care
| and direction of the Reverend Andrevu Hunter,
and the fame attention to t!Reeducation and mo
rah of the youth, which under him i'o highly
diftinguilhcd it, will be purluecl with unremit
ting endeavors, by the present principal and du
ly attended to by the truftces.
The town of WoodlJUry 11 (I'nated on an high
ami elevated spot : It is a.ry, pleasant, and re
markably healthy, and is but nine miles distant
from the City of' Philadelphia.
Parent!, guardians and others, who are dif
p«fed to fend their youth to this place, will find
exceeding good, decent and comfortable board
ing and lodging, and upon reasonable terms.
Further application may be made to the prin
cipal, or
John Sparks
Thomas Hendry
Franklin Davenport
JoJhua. L. Howell |> Trustees.
Jthn Black wnod I
John Lawrence
Thomas Hejlon J
ELISHA CLARK,
Secretary of the Board.
Woodbury, Dec 3 diet
Ephraim Clark,
CLOCK & WATCH MAKER,
Corner of Front and Market streets, Philadelphia,
HAS JUST KEQ'EIVED,
BY the different arrivals, a large supply of Clock
and Watch makers and Silver Smiths Tools,
files and materials,
CONSIST! NC OF
Rowiing Mills, large and small Bench arid Hand
Vices, Turnbenches Plycrs, Sliding Tongs, Bra
ces and Bit's,. Grooving tools, Saws, Scratch brattl
es, Blow pipes, Screw and Draw plates,large and
small Hammers, Cluck dials, cad brass Bells, for
ged w«rk and pinions, Emery, Rotten (lone, Pu
mice (tone, 3orax, Spel'cr Sorder, Brass, Steel and
tron wire, Ihect Brat's, nisu.-i fprlngs and glafles
gold, gik, and (teelchains, seals and keys, &c. flee.
CjT Clocks and Watches carefully repaired
■ov. it eod.f
Notice is hereby Given,
TH KT apphc ition will be made 11 the Trea
sury of the United States for the renewal
of the following certificates of Six per Cents,
funded debt—Handing in the name of Robert
Wilson of Calcutta in Bengal, Surgeon in the
service of the honorable United Company of
merchants of England trading to the Eafi-In
dies, which were loft from 011 board the Swal
low-Packet, capt Kidd, from Falmouth to New-
York. DoUj. Cts.
No 10,444, Reg. office 14th Dec.
i/?3> one certificate for
No 10,478, Reg. office 17th Dee.
1793» one certificate for 1959 50
ElFtfion & John Perot.
nov 13 eod6w
Whereas the certificate of two
fhcres of the Hank of the United States iu the
name of Samuel Amory, of London, banker,
No. 3ißj,iffued in lieu of 11593, HJ94, were
forwarded from London by the Britilh packet
Couctcfs, of Leicester, capt. Dodd, bound for
New-York, which packet was captured by the
Franch, and the fair! certificate loft ; and for the
renewal of which, application it made at said
Bank, and all persons concerned are defircd to
take notice.
CLEMENT BIDDLE.
Fhiku OA. 16, 1.798. eo6w
Patent Ploughs,
TO be fold for calh by Joseph Salter at Atfion
Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry—Jonathan
Harker, Woodbury—and Jefle Evans, Lumber
ton, Thofcwho haveufed them give them the
preference to any other kind, as they require
less team, bread the ground better, are kept in
erder at less expellee and arc fold at a cheaper
rate —the plan is much limplified and confiftsof
but one piece of call iron, with the handles and
beam of wood s they may belixed with wrought
lays aitd coulters to be put on with screws and
taken off at plealure
Patent tights for vending with inftru&ions for
making them may be had by applying to John
Newbold, or the fubferiber No. tit North
Front-ltrcet.
Who hai for Sale;
Or to Lease for a term of Hears,
A number ot valuable trails of Land, well
fituatcd for Mills, Iron tVarksor Farms, moil
ly improved, lying chiifly in the county of Hun
tingdon Ilatt of Pennsylvania. Thole who may
incline to view them will please to apply to
John Canan esq. near Huntingdon.
Charles NsvA/old.
July ij aawtf
Horses to Winter.
HORSES will be taken in to winter atPno
srtcT Hill, at the la Mils Stone, on the
"Brill-.1 road ; they will be ueH fed with clover
and timothy luy, well littered and cleaned, and
will alfohave a large field to cxercife. themftlves
hi when the weather is good.—Enquire of Mr.
VUHtm ISM, merchant, Watet street, er on the
premiiics,
Nov- J wf tf
run SALE,.
N'o. 7. SoUtii fiu;:ith-Stkll! " t
1000 pieces Nankeens,
A i'oxof Silks
ao Boxes powdered Sugar Csntly I 3 t *
A mrccl very fine Callia.
c. MAIGH r.
dec <
KM
By the Sub/cr'tbcrs
200 Bolts Rullia Duck,
50 pipes London paiticular bill Madeira \\ ihc
I pair nine pound Cannon
A few Baits Madras Handkerchiefs
4coo!l>s Fine Flota Indigo
Barrels Beef.
Wt I lings & Francis.
Pcnn-ftreet, )
November iS \ { '_ _ i
Imported
In the last arrivals from Bremen,
Hamburg and Amsterdam,
AND FOR SALE,
AT KSASONABLE FRICBS Al.'li tiN A HUiRAL
CREDIT, BY
PRATT V KINTZING,
N0.95, North Wawrftrcet.
215 bales h boxes l icklenburghs,
hempen linen« and oznabrigt from 1/5 to
3/ per ell
70 do. bleached and brown hefllans
40 do. brown rolls suitable for cof
fee bags . ,
20 do. rtrong do. do. for cotton do,
30 chests platillas 1 do. fcaling-wax
3 do. dowlas 3 packages oil-doth
30 do. creas ala Morlaii 4 do. fail-twine
12 do. eftopailles I do. watches
15 do. Biclcfield linan 14 P»P" **<>" »i» '
90 do. patterboxnes yi caies claret
45 do Brittanias 13° ( ' u f mc l° n S £°rked
I do. Holhnd canvass claret
1 I do. Ruflia do. 1600 buses Is fine fait
3 do. Rulfia (hirelings 40 cafkiofroll brinjflone
I do. ravens duck 100 cafics of naval liores.
a do. Rullia drillens JO logs prime mahogany
1 do. brown holland 4 hhds. coff.:emills
2 do. Sileiia rouans t> bundles German lleel
I de.Wahrendrop hncn 10 chelts of Hates and
1 do. Caraudolcs pencils
I do. Fiemifti linens A package of Jka»es
I do. cambricks and A do. woolon caps, &c.
lawns 4 chelts of Nurcnberg
1 do diaper toys
11 do. flripes 40 of yellow ochre
18 do. checks $ hhds. Glue
2 do. fiamoit S barrels of Identifies
I do. Arabia flripe J chclls of prime red
I do. bunting for color crutt Holland chcef«
x paclta. Madras hand- 30 kegs of pearl barley
kerchiefs 6a boxes of capers
1 do. Turkey yarn 400 fides of upper and
6 bales empty bags foal leather
1 chest hair ribband 300 boxes window glass
3 boxes tapes, alforted %co Demijohns
2 de. bobbin, aflorted $0 boxes glass tumblers
r box threads 8c tapes aflorted
1 do. fine blue liilados 2 hhds. pumice Hope
5 chests men's flippers 1 box of mill saws
3 do. bed ticks I calk of cutlery
2 calls hog's bridles A quantity of Acne jugs
6 chests writing paper and pickling pots
4 do. quills K si. .v (hips aachori, &c.
novemfeer rj tuitftf -
To be Sold,
OR EXCHANGED,
For property in the City, or within Thirty
miles of it,
A Valuable Plantation,
IN Tufcorora Valley, Miißin cemnty, containing
ab»ut three hundred acres, the whole capable
of cultivation. At pre Cent there is about .50 acres
cleared, 20 of which is a rich bottom of Meadjw
Ground; enriched by a never failing llreaui, that
has fall and water enough for all the purpofet of
a Country Mill. For further information apply at
No. 68, Market flrcct. ,
November 10 taw
FOR SALE, ~
Fifty Acres of Good Land\
Ly ng in Gloucester County,
State of Neir.Jerfey,
TWENTY-FOUR acnes of which ate
Woodland, the reft, Meadow. This
land lies about half a mile from Timber-Creek,
and two miles from the river Delaware, the
eounty road palling through it, and the great
road only two miles distant. For terms, apply
to, PATRICK DOGHERTY,
Sign of the Rainbow, in Shippen,
bci-ween Secohdand Third-flreets.
♦l ec 4
"Advertisement:
Todd & iVLott,
Of the City of Philadelphia, Merchants, havin<>
assigned over their ess. vsl», real, ptrfonal, and
mixed, to the fubferibers for the benefit of all
their Creditors—
Notice is hereby Given,
TO all perlons who are indebted to the said
eflate, that they are required to make ijn.
mediate payment of tbeir relpeAivc accounts to
either of the assignees, in fiilurc whereof legal
nsealures will be taken for the recovery of such
debts as aw not discharged without delay.
John IVaddington 1
John Rhodes C Assignees.
John /tilen. J
nov - . tu.th&fatFi
ALL PERSONS* ~
HAVING (demands a ? ainlt the Estate of
Usury Schafi kr, decealed, lateofthe
City Philadelphia, Malller and Shopkeeper
arc requefled to jurnilh their accounts properly
authenticated and all persons indebted to fiid
Ellate are desired to make ipeedy pnyment to
CASPAR W. HAINES, }
FREDERICK GAUL, 5 "n'ftnators•
nth to. 13 f law.iw
Notice is hereby givenT -1
THAT application will be made to Ac treasury
of the United States lor the renewal of the follow
ißg certificates of fix per cents, funded debts, ftand
ia the name of 3am Gatrielh RjgauJ, of Geaeva
which were loft from on board the Swallow Pack
et, Capt. Kidd, from Falmouth to New-York.
„ Doth.
No.3l9s.Reg.office !9thMay ' 9S , 1 cert, for iccc
tk). 14th do. do. 1 do. for 3300
Willing! fc? Francis.
° anhtT **- cod^w.
FOR SALE.
Rice, in whole and half Tierces.
Sherry, and"> WINM
Teneriffe J WINES -
Csrohaa &nd Georgia Indigo.
AND A PARCEL OF
Shipping Furs and Skins.
Apply to
N. is? J. Frazier,
H». %, So. front Street*
%
MAI ' ES-i
UMTiiD STATti., ? J.
Petinlylvaaia Diltridl, 5
J N ijurlunuce of a writ to me directed from j
i tl;: lion. Richard Peters, iifyuirc, Judge of
the DiUricl Court of t'nc UiiitedStates, in, and
for the Penniylvania DiftriA, will be expol'ed
to Public Sale,, at the Morchant's Coffee Hoofe,
in the City of Philapelphia, on Saturday the
15111 day of December inftaut, at 12 o'clock at
noon, the armed French vessel th« Jaloux, with
her apparel, guns, and apurlenanees, captured
by the public armedfliip the (Jnitvd Statis,
John Barry, Elquife, commander, in the said
Dillridi Court condemned as forfeited.
WILLIAM NICHOLS Marfhil.
Marshal's Office, Dec. 7, 1798.
Uuited States 7 jj-
Pennsylvania Diftriil. j
IN Purfuauee of a Writ to mc direiled from the
houora'ile R ch.ird peters, efquirc, Juried of the
Oiftnil Court of the United States in the
Pcniifylvauia Dillricl, wiil he cxpofeii to public
falc at the Merchants' Coffee-Houl'e in the City of
Philadelphia, ou Saturday the fifteenth day of
Dccembea instant, at l» o'clock at 110011, the .rul
ed trench vessel, Le Sanfpareii, with her appar.l,
guns, and appurtenances, captured by the public
armed thip, the United States, John Barry, esq.
Commander ; and in the laid Diilricl Court, con
demned ai forfeited.
WILLIAM NICHOLS, marfljai.
Marlhals Office >
December 7, 179$ j
THE SUBSCRIBERS,
Of the City Dancing Assembly
ARE informed, that theFint Assembly cvili l>e
l.cld «nThurld-y the »oth intl. at (Ellers Hotel.
Thomas IV. Francis James Gib/on
Thomas Ketland 'Jonathan IVil/iams
Mathetu Reane Stephen Kingston
William Macphtrfun Sjmuel Murgatroyd
December 11
FOR SALE,
To be EXCHANGED for property within thirty
mfes oi thccity.ortQ.let 011 ground-rent lorcver
Several valuable building Lots,
In Philadelphia,
Enquire of William M. Biddle. ne. 147, Chefnut
ftrect.
nov 11 '
Ironmongery, Cutlery, &c.
THE SUBSCRIBERS
TNTENDING to decline their ptefent Bufmefs,
X offer lor sale, at reduced prices, a handsome
allortmcnt ol Ironmongery, Cutlery, Jcc. in lots
t* suit the purchasers,
John Green Is" Co.
No.'i 6, Nxrth Second flrect.
ccy Ironmongers
Will find the abave Goods not vnworty their
attention.
nov.n $
Dobbin & Roberts,
"TAYLORS,
Respectfully inform theirCuflomere, and
the Public in geniral, that they have remo
ved from No. 114, Ckefnut Street, to
No. 30, South Fourth Street;
, Where orders in their line will be thankfully re
ceived and diligently Attended to.
not ember jj my&f.iw
French Language.
G. DUFIEF,
No. 63, South Second Street,
" wri,l orm .
His DAY and EVENING SCHOOL,
On WeJncfday, the 14th It.Jl.
N. 8.-~ Private fuition attended to as usual
and 1 ranilationa from cither Language into the
other, performed with accuracy, fecrccy, and
1 difpatck.
""*• 10 ewtf
John J. Parry,
CLOCK £9- WATCHMAKER,
HAS again opened at his usual Stand, No. 38,
South SecondJireet—ivhtre he has for Sale,
A VARIETY OF
Excellent Gold £-r Silver Watches,
AND A FIW
Eight Day Cclocks,
Which twill be warranted to give futisfuSion.
An assortment of
Gold, Steel and Gilt chains, Seals and Keys.
All kinds of Clock and Watch r *vork done ii'ith
particular attention as heretofore.
An Apprentice wanted.
novemier 11 ' 1
LARENCE SECKEL,
No. 155, Market-Street.
First quality London Particular f
Madeira, Port, Sherry and Lilbon > "
Cognijc Brandy, ift to 4th proof.
Spirits.
By the Pipe, Hhd, Quarter-calk or Galloa.
Ec 3 mw&faw
TEN DOLLARS REWARD. '
DESERTED last night, a second time, from t
the Marine Camp, iJaviJ JLupcr, a fifer.—
He had when he went away, a plain Hue jacket and
veil,light.blucoveralh, around hat, Which ludbecn
bound with yellow, and which he had ripped off '
» his fiift defmion, and a pair of new (hoes, he is ,
a Carpenter by trade, has grey eyes, lar.dy hair
fallow complexion and a iiitch in his upper lip '
His hack is if 1 11 fore from a flogging he got a few '
days ago He may bo dilcovtred by. his fifein", '
at he plays extremely well.
' W. W. BURROWS Major Com. of the
O&ohcr 17. Marine Corps.
The time of an A Hive
BLACK BOY,
WHO is about fiiteen years old, and hai five
years to serve, to be difpofcd of. He is
well acquainted with the buOnefs of a farm, and '
handy at cooking or waiting in the baafc. En
quire at the office of thii Gazette.
m». a 6 eosw
WANTED,
A MIDDLE AGED \\ OMAN,to take care
-L i- of children, Die mult be well recommended •
as Rood temper, honetty, sobriety and cleanli- 1
m&.—Eiquire at No a; 8 Maket St. <
Dec. u, Jt _ t
Ready Furnljhed Apartments. !
TO LET,READY FURNISHED, '
A FRONT Parlour and four ch&mUer*, with '
the ulc <<t a Kitchen and Cellar, in a J
ptalknt j»art of Arch ftrcct ; cutjuirc at the o3ice J
oi this Gazette.
N. B.—Ai the furniture is all new, ic precludes
any apprehL-nliou of contagion I'rosn the late pu
vuilinjr fearer,
dccembcr 1% eoijt
Bank of North Ameriea.
THE Stockholders are hereby notifie.l .v.
Eleaion !or twelve fiTthe ??■"*
year, will b. 1 eld at the Bank on Monday
14th of January n xt, at ten o'clock
-e «. R:CHARD WELLS, Cafli',.
— dtEl
i M P O R TED, "
In the Ships Aclive and Liberty,
from H jmmorch.
Ticklenburghs,
Oznabrigs,
White Platillas
Brown Silefias
Bretagnes
Hessian Rolls
Brown Russia Sheetings
German Lindfeys,
Bed Ticks, isft.
For Sale by
GEORGE, PEKNOCK
no. 103 Market-ftreec.
nov 30 r
.—— {
NOTICE,
A LL Persons indebted to tkeEftate of Wil '
i 1 V ham Besuchamp, lately deceased, axede'
lired to make imraedia'i- payment and thole who
have any claur* against Hid Eftite to produce
J tlicif accounts properly aue.led to
San:'. Price, executor.
" c,y 30 dim
mnr FJ
OF THI FIKST QUALITY,
And fit for India voyages For S«'e By l '
WILLIAM SHEaFF,
No. 168, High Street,
nov. W d(f
FOR SALE,
By the Subscriber,
Belfaft Canvass, No. i, to 7,
On modsrate terms far Cafli or a Ihortcrcd'it,
James Lyle,
South Seventh Jlreet, near Cbe/kut.
nov 16 j
Forty Dollars Reward.
DESERT# 1),
From a Detachment of Men under my com
mand, at Camp IVeJI Sckuyttiil, viz.
Oilober 29.
GEORGE KELLER, 40 yean o£ag«, 5
feet 6 inches in height, dark hair and
complexion, borvi in Holland, no Trade, (peaks
broken Erglifti and very talkative, has a dimple
in his chin.
Kovember 6. John Murphy, 17 v»ars of
age, 5 ft" 7 1 niches in height, grey eyes, dark
luir and complexion, born iu Ireland, city of
Dnb.ib, by 1 ratlr a Hosier.
Jacob Iden, 34 years of age, 5 feat 6 inchM
k'gh, g re T eye», sandy hair, frelh i-omplexion,
born in New-England, state of Connedlicut, a
repeated delerter, by trade a Rlackfmith.
Xe-vt->;tber 7. William Collins, 30 yean of
age, 5 teet 6 inches high, sandy luir, frefli com
plexion, grey eyes, born in Ireland, county of
Wexford, by trade a Gardner, has worked for
fume time about Philadclpbw, he is vecy fond
to heir himfelf Sing.
All the above delcrters are veiry much addiil
ed to liquor, and will take other people's pro
perty if m their power, are artificially marked
oq their backs, had on, when they went away,
<ht»r regimental o.Vitliinp-- AViiulhtier appre
hends said deserters, IbaU receive forty dollais
reward, or tea dollars for each, with all reafofi
able expences, by applvinft to roe as above,
MDIVARD MILLER, captain
id regiment of Infantry commanding.
nov 10 $
BALLAST.
A QUANTITY to bndifpof«d of, if applied for
immediately, on board the Ship Louila, lying
Mr. HUMPHREY'S Ship Yard,
novemher to. $
AUL PERSONS having any legal demands a
galnll Ihe cftate of William Pa li.n, decesfed,
late of the city of Philadelphia, Tavern keeper, aro
reqtitfled to furnifli iluir accounts properly au
thenticated, and all persons indebted to laid estate
arc r.*q.ie(lrd to make payment to the fublcnbsr m
Philadelphia.
LEVI HOLLING3WORTH Admin*
Oilobcr 31U, 1795.
DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO WIT:
BE IT REMEMBERED,
THAT on the twelfth day
of August, in the twenty third year of
the Independence of the United States of
America, Benjamin Smith Barton, of die laid dif
tri<sl, hath deposited in this office the title of a
hook the right whereof l»e claims as author in the
words following to wit :
" New Views of the Origin of the Iribesand
" Nations of America—By E«njjmin Smith Bar
" ton, M. D. CorrcfpoJidcnt Member ot the Socic
" ty of the Antiquaries of Scotland, Member ot
" the American Philosophical SodctJ, Fcliow ot
" the American-Academy of Art> and Sciences ot
" Bollon, Correl'poiididg Member of the Malla
" ahul'etts Hillorical Society, and Profeuor ot
" Materia Mtdica, Natural history and Botany
" in the Univeriity of Pcnr.lylvania."
In coi.lormity to the a& 01 the Congrc.s 01 t £
United States, intitled " An aitfor th* tßCOUiagt
ment of learning by securing the copies of niaf»»
charts,and books, to the authors aud proprietor,
offuch copies during the timesthar.in mciition«a.»
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clak, Uiltol P«n
November 3,
A Young Man,
WHO writes a good hand,
accounts and can be well recomn;ti^ c »
want# a Sitbation as Clerk or Art/laot *
Wholefalc Store, or Coiiutiiig-honle. •
cation to be made at this Officii,
nov 14
J CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
TOHN A. SHAEFrF.It, ofPhiladelphia, whoh"
J for a few ye ar, past been in the fomhern »t.t«,
has bad the vffrunteur ro draw feveralßill. m
change on l imothy Pickering, Eiq. " r - t ; J d
State, and myfelf.and by that ro«ns kas^frau
a number of pcrlons of their money,
them by an exhibition-os letters and papers»
Hunts affixed of divers public charailen. an <■
table merchants highlv recrnim«iditory
Sbaeffwr; to one of these papers I find / _, rc
fuM'crihbd, but I do not know Uie man j tn«
1 villainous forgeries! To prevent further . e
! 1 luve to rcquelt the printers of 'f®* r'C t heir
United States topublilh this lor thebenrht
• *dz}Sl2!t>
Trtnfin, Jfnu-JrrJey,")
Ot:ob* 14, I?yb. f