-
« . • , y» - - ■ .' ■' ' ' ''' |
®f tlx Unites J&tafes, AND Philadelphia Daily
By John Fenno, N° it 9 Chefnut Street.
Numbs* 1775.J
Sale of Furniture.
ON Monday next, the lift of May a{ nine |
o'clock in the morning at No. 19 South
Fourth-street, between Chefnut and Market
flreets, will be fold a large aflortment of
Household Kitchen Furniture.
Confiding of mahogany square and r. uad cad
dining tablet*—breakfaft and ca'd tablet —fofa«
4zjd mahogany ciiatrs—windfor eh lit c wi th and
Without Huffed feats—buret's*—ch-eft of draw
ers —mahogany crib and cradle—Burtfau with
Secretary drawer and wardrobe —deft and baok
cafr —two easy chairs —gilt aad plain lookiog
glafies—j>iinures—bnfs andirons —an excellent
roasting jack with weights andfpita complete.
With a variety of othei articles nearly new and
id good preferration ; the property ati two fam
ilies about to remove from this city.
CONNELLY isf, Co. auSioneers.
may 16 dts
Collectors Offi<e,
T 1 H. LA DE L THIA , Ij, I7jß.
FOR SALE AT PUBLIC AUCTION,
At!the Custom House, on Friday, the fifteanth
of June, 1798, the following Merchandise,
which remain in the Custom House Stores more
than nine mouths, unclaimed by the owners or
consignees thereof
(X Hj eight half faggots of Steel
(T D) aoi one bale Oirihweb
(T L) a quantity of Steel
Wone cafe Lamps
C & C one cafe Bobbin
(W) one (mall box Medicine
AB 203 one matted cafe Dutch Books
1 Si C one keg Herrings
(W) one small box of samples of Buttons
4
j- () j Ia 3 three bales Girthweb
IV H] 20® one ditto ditto .. .
JtOaaa«« «tt» ditto
(ho murk) i-ig+u
(dHto) one bundle Slates
[L S] one fmail box Locks dts
Will be fold for Cadi,
At eight o'clock on the Evening of MONDAY
the eleventh day of June next, at (he Mer
chants' Coffee house, in Philadelphia, if
.not previously disposed of at pri
vate fain,
THE FOLLOWING TRACTS OF
Valuable patented LAND,
In the county of Glynn, in the state of Georgia,
and the cour.tie. of Bath and Randolph in the
state of Virginia, \
70DJ acres at the head of St. Simon's Sound and
confluence of Turtle and Alatamahi rivers, ad
joining the commons of the town of Brunfwick.
41000 acres on the Great Satilla and on the head
waters of the Little Satilla, adjoining lands of
Wm.M'lmofh, John HoWi 11, icFerdinandO'Neal.
*SOOO acres on Great Satilla, adjoining lands of
Freeman Lewis and John Howell.
44000 acre* in Bath county, on both Cdes of
Green Briar River, adjoining lands ol Jac»b War
rick, Daniel M'Cnllum and John Dilley, including
3000 acres of prior fur veys.
41000 acres in Bath county, oh the east fide of
Cowpafture River, and on hoth fides of the wag
gon road leading from the warm fpringsto Staun
ton, including 5000 acres of prior surveys
40000 acres in the county of Randolph, on Bu
chanan River, adjoining lands of Thomas Wilson,
and 1 f arrea prior fa., vfya. ,
30000 acres in Bath county, on the mil iltfeof
Cowpafture River, on the waters of said river,and
ol Calfpafture River, adjoining lands of Joseph
Grubb, and incluping 5000 acres prior surveys.
The Georgia land, will be fold in trails of one
thousand acre, each, the others in the quantities
and trails abov® described.
Persons desirous to examine the titles and drafts
of the above mentioned land, will call for that
purpose on Benjamin R. Morgan, at No. 41,
Arch street ; proposals of purchase may be made
to either of the fubferibers.
T. FITZIMONS,
No. —, Chefnut street.
B. R. MORG N,
No. 41, Arch street.
JEREMIAH PARK R,
No. 9, North Eighth street.
may 14. dts
ADVERTISEMENT.
NOTICE IS HF.REBY GIVEN, that by virtue
of a Decree of the Chancellor, will be fold
at Public Auction, at Snowhill, Maryland, on
the firft Friday in June next, part of a traiSl of
Land called STRUGGLE, lying in Worcester coun
ty, and all the reft of the Real Ellate ol joshua
Townfend, deceased, for the payment of his debts.
There will be given nine months credit for the one
half of the purchase money, and fifteen months
credit for the other half; the purchaser or purcha
sers giving bond with security lor the fame, on in
tereft, from the day of ftfc—All cT«»Utor» tin#
said Jofliua Townfend are also again notified to
produce their claims, with the vouchers thereof,
to the Chancellor, within fix months from the lad
day of December latt, that being the day ot the
firft sale.
WILLIAM WHITTINGTON, Traftee.
may 14- S IW
vi 4V LANDING,
From on hojtrd the Ikip Elizabeth, captain Paiflie,
from Batavia,
And FOR SALE by the Sdbscribir,
400,000 wt. Java COFFEE
300 canisters SUGAR, of a superior quality
ALSO,
A quantity of SAP AN WOOD
JOHN MILLER, jun.
April iy. §
GOODS
Forwarded to BALTIMORE,
CVII LAND
Via Elkton, on reasonable terras —by
Levi HollingJ'worth tlf Son.
may 14 eodflt
&AL% r E 1 R E.
One hundred kegs of refined Salt Petre,
For Sale by the Subscribers.
Janes C. tsf Samuel IV. Fifhcr,
No. 13, Arch Street
marrj : 3 I 4tawtf
Joseph Ricardo,
OF this City, Merchant, has aftigned his pro
perty for the besofit of his Creditors,to James
C. Fitter, Samuel W. Fi&er, and Thotnas Wilson.
All persons who have demands are re
«|nefted to furnifh their accounts without delay—
and those indebted to make immediate payment to
the Subscribers, a&jng Afiignees.
Jamts Q. & Samuel IV. Fisher.
No. 12, Arch Street.
, march 31 4tawtf
j
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, AMr 19, 1798.
JUST ARRIVED,
I*i the brigGayofo,capt.pinghap.i, from St.Martins
A quantity of SALT,
of an exccellent quality
A few grace Porter Bottles, new
And twenfy calk? Vinegar
-jr-»c And tht £aM
B R 1 O,
Also, FOR SALE,
Enquire of
Jehu Hollingfmorth & Co.
No jz, Little a ater ltreet, South,
april »o. i_
FOR SALE,
'or} Havannah Sugar
aoo Hides
Will Be landed to morrow, at Willing* and Fran
cis's wharf, from on board the brig Aviive, Will
iam William®, matter.
said Brigfor sale,
And m*y take in immedi- j
Apply to !
Jehu HtHingftuorih & Co. |
march 30. 5 •
' TO BE SOLD,
4°',959 acres of Land.
TN Greene 1 ounty, Commonwealth of Pcnnfyl-
X vania, on the waters of Filh and Wheeling
Creeks and Ten Mile Run.
These Lands are fertile and well timbered, and
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten ycart ago for
five ftillings per acre ; patented early in 1787, e
xcept 370 c acres, which were patented in 1791;
part of them were surveyed in The traift
is between the Ohio and Monongahela very <eu
venicnt to water carriage, about 19*cniltv from
*t—r. 1.4 to 1 i fr«m the
-rill-j-ior otw«itlbufj;h And Wli-siwjf
O-vpaymint of one ourth of the jrofcnaf; mo
ney, a reasonable credit will be given firthe resi
due. Enquire of th' Printer,
april it. ?
' TO BE SOLD,
acres of Land,
IN the State of New York, jetwsen ths northern
bounds of Pennsylvania aid the SHfquehanna
now, or late in the townhips of Hamden and
Warren and county of Warien.
These Lands, from their quality and lituation,
are a very desirable objeift fcr any man who means
to invest his money to advjn'.age.
On payment of one third of the purchase mo
ney, a reasonable credit will "e jiven for the resi
due. Enquireof the Printer.
April it. §
Military Colours.
AtC. GULLACER's
Portrait and Ornamental Pointing Rooms,
1 No. 50, South Fourth, next to Chefnut street,
oppofitethe Friends' Meeting.
PAINTING on silks for Military and other or
.namerrtal purposes (in a manntr peculiar to
himfelf) durable, not to be injured by the weather,
which for elegance of design, truth and beauty of
colouring, neatness and niaflerly execution, has
not Ijri" n f.n""lli-H by Oe&rge Rtirter' Co»-
FLslGt anti &KUMS —.
Furnished with all poffihle difputch, on tlieraoft
reasonable terms.
Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck
ets, Cornices, &c &c. executed in flile (n.t that
superb stile of modern elegance peculiar to G. R.)
but in a workman like manner, peculiar to an ar
tiftmafterof hi« proleflion.
Mr. Gullacer, from a numberof year's expe
rience in Europe and thitcountry, Batters himfelf
that profeffional talents, pur.flaalicy, and reason
able demands, will meet '.ha entirs approbation of
those gentlemen who wi I pleafc to c .11 at his Paint
ng Rooms. §6w may 5.
NOTICE.
P. S. Gentlemen in town and
country, wishing for a fopply of Colours and
Drums, painted in a ijialterly m anner, will no
doubt feel themselves obliged for the kind can ion
jfiven by George Rutter and Co. not to trull felf
flattering advertisements, but examine the work
executed by both parties One view will fatif
fy them where the superiority lies, —save thefpoil
ingof good silks by George Rutter's pencil—and
discover the requisites for the contra Sing talents
of Henry Frailey, at Germantown may 10.
Military Colours,
FAINTED ON SlLK—it
GiORGE Rutter £sf Co.
Portrait and Ornamental Painters,
IN a Hile which will tntiure the hardlhips of the
weather without injury, and which for neatness
and exactitude of colouring cannot be jfurpafted in
this city.
FLAGS and DRUMS
Furnished with dispatch, en ths mod modetate
terras.
Portraits, Ornamental Paintings, Signs,
fire-buckets, jcc. accompliflied in that fupcb stile
of modern elegance, which, Mr. Rntter pledges
himfelf from 10 years experience iu this city will
meet 4ie entire approbation of his friends and the
public.
In the Military Line,
A variety of specimen's may be seen at their
Painting Room, Norris'sCourt, back of the Naw
Library.
may 1 d6w
" NOTICE.
HAVING observed an adyeftifement of C.
Gullagcr, in terms derogatory of our pro
feffional abilities, we have to request the public
not to be imposed upon by foreign artists ; but to
decide upon the merits ol each by a comparison ot
the work executed by both, as it is a mode almost
universally adopted by them to invalidate the ta
lents of etlablifeed artists, with a view of deceiv
ing the public, and cngroffing that buGnefs which
their profeffional knowledge in no wife entitles
them to. Well knowing that public opinion mull
gov,fern, we flatter ourfclves that the work execut
ed by us w ill convince them of our great superio
rity over Mr. Gullager in every branch of por
trait and ornamental painting, and ihew the ntcef
lity of judging for themselves.
N. B. In future no attention will be paid to the
felf-flatterirg advertisements of Mr G.
Any person wishing a supply of FLAGS and
DRUMS will please apply toGio. Rutti;* and
Co. Norris' Court, or Hexry Frailiy, GcrmaE
town. §£w niay 8.
Jufl; Published,
By W. YOUNG, booKleller, Seeond-flreet,
the corner < f Chefrut street,
THE WORKS OF JOHN NEWTON,
LONDON. . ;
A ntw edition, in 9 v«l& price doh. neat- j
ly bound, containing lett«r» of Omicron and
Virgil, Cardipiionii, review of nif
t»iy, lermors, mei. , letters to'aV i£t, Oloey
hjai the life of EUxa —
Each of these parts maybe had
fach as havd been fuppUed with VV. Y >unz's
ediiioii in 6 vols, may, by lpeedy applica:io*>, V
furnifhed with the 7th, Brh and 9th vol*. at*i
dols.
Also, latety Pullijhed.
Baxter's Saint's Reft, abridgtd by Faw- dels.
cett, nmoat t
Beveridge'sprivatethoughts,2 parts umo 75
Christian (the) Parent, umo 50
(the) Remembrancer, umo 7^
Christian world uumafked, do 6i\ ,
Dickenfon's (of New-Jeifey) familiar « j
letters, umo !
Doddrige's rife and progrefa, ißmo foa 6i\ I
fermons on education, 1 amo 44 '
feioionstoyoung persons, do
on regeneration, ißmo S(t
Davies sermons -a vols Zvo 4
Home's uommentary on the book of
Psalms, a 15
ditto 1 vol»4Svo » <lO
a work highly admired by all who have,
had the advantage of perujmg it.
Hervey afjiafio vindicated, i»mo 7^
Letters of certain Jews to Voltaire, svo %
Walker's lermons, with Bi air's life of
"the author, » vols Bvo 3
White's sermons, preached before the
Univerfityof Oxford, Bvo 1 50
WynperfTa on the true and eternal God
head of our Lord Jesus thrift, 50 a 68
Sacred Biography, or the history •f the 1
Patiiarchfl, »y H t-iimter, jvol«8vo 6
A Urge affr;. tmtnt of bibles, in tolio, quarto,
limo and pooket, at various prices
A large allowance to whololale purchasers.
Catalogues of books, with the prices of each
book annexed, are delivered as aforefaid.
may 17 lawjw
CANNON,
Muflfcet and Pistol Cartridge Papers,
A LARGE AfSOR TMENT
Is now ready for sale by William Young,
Bookfe'ler, No. 52, Second Street, ihe
corner of Chefuut street.
' OF WHOM MAV BE HAD
Baron Steuben s Regulations for the Order and Disci
pline of the Troops of the United States.— To robicb is
added, an a£i of Congress concerning the Militia, price
50 cents ; do. largeprints 67 cents.
W. Young,
His for fete, en tie Uivtf term, for aft or tugociaUe
Notes,
Large writing, printing & drafting paper,
A v S O,
Foolscap j Pofti Folio and 4 to. Ptfl of various fixes, J
gilt and plain ; injt po-u>der,fealing -wax, wafers, puetct,
inkJfandsy black lead pencils. auillr, ruler], cqfe* rftna- ,
ihematical injlrunsents, guntef scales, parchment and mfs '
skin memorandum booh, pen knives y india'*risbber and ink•
may 12 i
Thomas & Joshua Ivisher,|1 v isher,|
-IT- rill fl n 1
At No. 5, Dock-ftreet,near the Drawbridge,
China wart nankeen dining setts, tea and coli^e
cap* And saucers
Nankeens, black fattins and tafliti«s
Puogem cloths, choppah romalls, and bandannoes
China and Engltfh umbrellas,
Together with a general affortmenl of European
Goods— among which (ire
Scots thread in boxes
6d. Bd. iod. lad and aod. nails
Shot—T. Crowley steel, Spanifli brown and white
lead
English scythes 42 to 50 inches
ALSO,
111 barrellsof kiln dryert Indian corn meal.
A commodious StorcinDock-flreet,
No. 7, to be let, three stories high, suitable for
any business.
4th mo. sth §tf
Ross SIMSON,
HAVE rOR SALE,
22 bales superior Madrafs blue Cloths
Carolina Indigo, firti quality
A few bales Baftas, Coifaei, and a quantity of
Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
april 1 |
LANDING,
From on board the Ship Sally, from
Calcutta*
AND FOR SALE BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
1600 bags prime Sugar,
800 do. Ginger
30 bales low priced piece Goods.
John Miller, Jun.
march 3 |§
THIRTY DOLLARS htIVARD. '
Stolen Lajl Night,
OUT of the pasture of the Subscriber, living
in Dai by, Delaware csunty, a Bay Horse
about fixieen hands high, fix years old this
spring, fnod before, thin main and switch tail,
a small star in his forehead, hind feet white, has
a remakable fear on his near (houlder occasioned
by a scald or burn, on which the hair is thin and
(hort, he carries well, trots and canters, is apt
to start when rode.—-Whoever takes up said
horse and thief, (hall have the above reward, or
fifteen dollars for the horse only and reasonable
charges. Nathaniel New/in,
jth month, 17 eod^t
For Sale,
The eargoofthebrig American from Laguira,
CONS 1 STI NG OF
Caraccas Cocoa.
Henry Phifips,
No. 111, Scuth Fonith Street.
April 13
W. M. Bi DDL e,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Pablic, that he
has remove' to No. 147, Chefnut Street, where he
proposes to carry on the bufnefs of
A BROKER.
He will procure patents, or yanfail any other
buCijef.in the Land OlSce of this state, for a mode
rate commilEou.
may 14
CON G R ESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
TUB»DAY MA* I.
TH B SPEAKER Uid before '.e lioufe
' 1 report from tl>e eral
on certain petition# from the ftste ■>
York, for alterations in the poll
tpad,. Avhicli wa. feiened to the commjttee
appointed on th{»
Mr. "L.yoN prcfenied a remonstrance and
petition from tli« inhabitants qf the (own of
SUaftclbury, in the llpte of Vermont, dating
the eviis would arise from a state of
war. amongst which they mention as one of
the greateit an alliance with a nation whose
object is the deftruftion of Repnblicanifm ;
they pray, therefore, that merchants vessels
may not be authorized to arm, nor any tnea
jfqres which may involve the country
in war.
Mr. PAyrsoN prrfenled an address to the
fame effe£t from Madison county, in the
state of Virgii.ia.
The Speaxhh laid before the house a
number of rtfolutions entered into at a meet
ing at New-Brunfwick, approving of the
contjuft of the Executive in its ntgociation
with France, and offering the lives and for
tune of the addresser* in support of the mea
sure« cf .orernment.
Mr. Baer prtfeoted fame refolulions to
the fame efftfit from Frederick county, Ma
rylar.d.
Mr. SiNNiCRSON also preferited an ad
drefa from Trenton to the feme efFeS.
TL fe fevtral addrclTcs, &c. wore referred
to the committee of the whole on th« fifate
of ftie union.
The.house went into a committee of the
whole on the bill for the relief of V iJliaui
Imlay, commiftioner of loans for the ftat« of
Conne&tcut, and the bill was agreed to
without amendment, and ordered to be read
a third time to-morrow.
Mr. Sewall called for the oider of the
day on the third resolution reported from the
committet of the whole, on the fubjcdl of
alien*, and the consideration of the following
amendment being resumed, viz. to add to it
these words : " between which and the Uni
ted, there Jhall exijl a Jlate of declared w r,"
it was agreed, and referred to the feleft com
mittee on commerce and defence, to report a
bill accordirgly.
On motion of Mr. Sewall, the house
went into a committee of ihe whole on the
! bill from the Senate, with the amendments
! proposed by a feleft committee thereto, au
, thorizing the President of the United States
, to raise a p'ovifional army, Mr. Dent in
the chair ; when the bill and the amend
j meets having been read, the firft araend
■ mfnt came under consideration, viz. to flrike
i out the following words, " whenever he
I .<I>«11 jnrlrra tha yiiiMli- fliall
mealrue, ' and to insert in lieu ther of, " ifl
ihe i vent of a declaration of war ngainjl the
United States, or of a£lua\ inviijiin of their
territory by a foreign p tver, or of imminent
dinger ofluch invqfion, discover ed, in his opi
nion to exij). '
Mr. Gali-atin said, if this amendmen'
was adopted, it would prevent a motion be
ing made to tlrike out the firft feftion of
the bill. This amendment would certainly
make the bill better than it is at prelent, a:
it goes to define in some measure the cases in
which the provisional army may be railed ;
yit, as he conceived, the amendment did not
go far enough, and that under our present
circumftancea, it is not rieceflary or proper
to puss this bill, he would move to strike
out the firft feftion of the bi I, which would
fupercede the motion under consideration.
He would briefly ftaie his reafous for ths
motion.
He had said that the amendment remov
ed in some degree the objections against the
bill ; but it was far from removing them
altogether. He allowed the two firft con
tingenc es, viz. a declaration of wai;, or ac
tual invasion, were defii.i'e.and therefore the
constitutional objeftion which lay agaiull tht
bill, as to its transferring a pow r to tht
Executive, which is vetted by the conllituti.
on in Congress, viz. to judge of the proprie
ty of raising an army, does not lie againfl
them ; but the third, viz. when imminenl
danger of such invasion, discovered, in his
opinion, to exist, is liable to the fame con
stitutional objeftion to which the origina!
bill was liable, as it left it to the opinion or
the President to decide ihe proper time ol
raising an army.
Undoubtedly the constitution has fore
seen that in cases of imminent danger, th<
United States would need a Handing army
but it makes Congress the ju-'ge of this ne
ceffity, bvt this biil went to make the Pre
fident the judge ; yet he knew if there wer<
no other objeftion to this bill, the most ufu
al course would have be?n to have moved tc
strike out the latter part of the amendment
But he conceived it was not proper at pre
sent to pass his bill ; he believed it woul<
be fme enough to do it, when we were con
vinced of the existence of danger. And hi
did not think there were any serious appre
henfions te be entertained of an invafioa do
ring {he present session. The danger to b
apprehended was upo« our trade ; but hi
expefted no attack upon our territory be
yond predatory excursions ; the landing o
a dangerous c'afs of persons from the Weft-
India ifl*nds, or an attack on the coast b
some detached frigates. But in every cafe
short of an a&ual invasion by an army, h
conceived the militia would not only b
compeient to repel the attack, but more f
than a regular army. If an invasion or in
iurreflios took p'ace in tht foiithern ftatei
[VOLUMK XIII.
where the danger seems moll to be appre
hended, the militia in the neighbourhood
would be ready immediately to reptl »>t f'.'jJ*
pref • it. {f these ould not do it, nei heir
could a regular army. The danger tn l>«
apprehended in cafe of 'an infotrefr'it'n or an
atutk ofthat is wWat would take place
immediately, and thh could only 'hi pre*
vented by the militia who are on the spot, for
an wmy cbirtd not "he fup]sofed to b? always
at hand to mee: any fudd'en emergency. He
bad no doubt, therefore, the militia of the
country would be folly equal to its defence.
Ikit if they were not the volunteer corps of
cavalry, accoutrements for whi. :h were p-o
---pofed to be provided by this bill, might be
called in, and would be more effefiual than
any other force. He thought, therefore,
it would be better to negative this bill, and
to adopt the regulation, recommended t>y
the feledt committee, in a separate bill.
If the militia was equal to the tepellintr
of any attack, except fro n a regular-army, it
couIJ not be app'ehended that an invation
of thnt kind cou d take place during the
pr sent feflion. The attention of France is
at present e gaged on very different ijbjedts ;
and if it was in 'heir power, which Ue did
not think it w?s, yet as the whole of tkeii*
marine strength is engaged in a different ob
jeft of much greater importance to lhv-Hl
than the invasion of this country could be,
they would not attempt it at present. his
must be evident when it was recollefled what
a fatal! force they have empk-yed againll
Weft india islands, which they wilh to con
quer. Wc do ridt know that the' French
inean to Invade tnoiAfy j every thing an
ttrp fabjcdl arose from a(spielt*nG<Jo , b«tt we
do know they wish to re take the r possessi
ons in the Weft Indies fir ce they have made
their restoration a fine qua non condition of
peace, and we know all the force they have
been able to fend agaitift them. And what
does it amount to ? In the courfo of a year
two or three frigates and a few hundred men
with arms. Thia is all the force they are a -
ble or willing to fead from home. In the
Eail Indies, where they have colonies to con
quer for themselves, or the Dutch, the fame
want of force is to b: seen. It is certain that
whilftthe Euiopean war lalts,they are either
unable or unwilling to make any great exer.
tionsat a distance from Europe. Indeed, it all
the force they have employed out of Eu
rope were to cotne againll thi, country, it
would be repulsed by the militia in any part
of the country whe e it might make it at
tack If, then, any invasion i f this coun
try is expefled, it must take place at the can*
clufion of the European war ; and if it was
then made, he had no douht of our being
able to repel it. Byt in fuqh cafe, the con
tingency on which the raising of this army
by this bill refti, would not take place till
the next session of Copgrefs. He was not,
however, under ar.y of its tak
ing place even at this time ; and When he
said this, it was not btcaiife he differed in
opinion with gentlemen a' to the ambition
of France, but because he thought i was
neither their iutere , nor in the r power to
effeft an invasion of th s cuU'itry. He be
lieved the French nation to be as ambitioqs
as the gentleman from S Carolina represent
ed i 1 to be , and he believed every nation
intoxicated with victory as she i , and pofi
ft fling power equal to her, would also be as
ambitious as (he i*. If, said he, this conn
try was situated as near to France as Italy
and Switzerland are, and our resources werj
no greater than theirs, he would agree that
we (hould be in some danger ; but, situated
as we are, he believed it would neither be in
the power of France, nor would it be her
interest if it was, to invade this eountry in
any formidable manner.
It is not the interest of Fiance to make an
attempt to invade this country, because we
have no bulintfi in the political fc le or vor
tex of Europe. It was to increase their
power in Europe, that the French have ta
ken those steps which were so often repro
bated in this house ; but they could h ve no
such view in fending a force against us. And
: though they may not always be /guided in
their conduft by the principle of interest,
their ambition mud be limited by the extent
of their power. And if, twenty years
when our populations, and confequectly our
strength, was not half what it is at present,
• the attack of a nation whose force as appli
l cable to any maritime exertion asd to an in_
i vafion, was greater than that of France and
all her allies, and whose money resources
were far superior to theirs, was not able to
make an impreflion upon this country, it
i held out no flattering encouragement to
, France to make the atte.npt. He must con_
• fefs he looked upon all that was said of an
invasion by Fiance as a rsere bvg bear. He
' did not believe any attempt would ever be
■ made, and if it was made, that the militia
i alone would be fufficient to repel it ; yet
. were there any thing like a certainty of such
- an event, he would not trult wholly in the
1 militia, but would call the whole of dor re
sources into motion, he wotfid ha»e a lland
: ing army as well as the militia.
Under ihefe impreflions, it was clear he
- could not to e for this bill, because it goes
t upon the idea of an army being n'eceffjry tr»
: meet an invasion, of which he thought there
. was no danger; but if there are gentlemen
who are of a different opinion, who thinlt
that an invasion will take place, and if so,
<i that we must have an army, he would a(k \t
, it could take place without being known
e some time before hand ? It certainly could
e not, as such an undertaking would not be
a entered upon without immense previous pre
i- paration.
i, What ri the iatttition. of vM» bill ? It i#that if the President (h 11 think danger etifts,
he (h 11 begin to ra'fe an army. When will
he do this ? He supposed \ihen he firft
heard of preparations making for an invasion.
But in that cafe, Mr. G. wi(hcd to know
whether the firft step of the President would
not be to call Congress together ? Congress
were called together last spring, upon an
occahon far less important, and when no
imminent danger existed. When it was
known that the President could convene Con
gress within (ix weeks after he was
ced the danger of an invasion existed, he
submitted to the committee, whetherit was
proper to place the power .in the hands of
the Prefidei t, which the constitution has
placed alone in Congress, of judging when it
is proper to raise an army ?
Mr. G. said, the question was, whether
an-army of io,orcf men (hould be raised for
fix years, according to the discretion of the
PreGdent, or whether Congress (hould reserve
to itfelf the discretion of raising an army, or
not, as it (hall think proper. He said fix
years, because though the enlistments are
only to be for three years, yet the power of
enlisting was veiled in the President for three
years. I0 ; 000 men, according to the gen
tleman from Maryland (Mr. Smith) would
cost four million dollars a year. It gentle
men really believed there was at present dan
ger of an invasion, they would immediately
order an army to be raised ; but if they do
not, and chufe to fay the President (hall de
cidfi on the danger, as he conceived th sto
be a dirileftion of duty, he could not agree
to it, and therefore he wished to destroy the
bill.
Mr. Sewah, said, the gentleman from
Pennsylvania had grounded his motion on
the anconftitutionality and inexpediency of
the present bill. If it is inexpedient, it is of
little consequence whether it be constitution
al, or not ; and if unconstitutional, however
expedient it may be,, certainly th« bill ought
not to be passed.
The constitution appeared to him so plain
on this fubjeft, that he knew not how it
could have been rrmcsiwd that this bill was
unconstitutional. To fay that this bifl is
unconstitutional, Vvould be to fay that Con
gress are unable to provide by anticipation
for the public defence ; yet measures have
been passed upon a different principle, which
that gentlemen had thought right. Mr. S.
referred to the law eftablilhirg the military
corps, in which the President was authoriz
ed to suspend enlistments, if he thought it
necessary. There were a variet) of ether
instances, he said, but he could only mention
one more. It was the law rcfpefting.gallics
passed tl<is fefiion, where the President had
the power given him to provide them, or
not, which was exa&ly the fame kind of '
power now proposed to be given to the Pre
sident.
He b-lieved every gentleman who attend
ed to the constitution, atsd to t'ee manner in
which it had been afted upon, could have 110
doubt upon the fubjeft. In a variety of ca
ses, Congress did not exercise their cdnfti
tutional powers themMves ; they were fre
quently obliged to authorize the President to
aft for them. And in this cafe, nothing
more is intended to be done than to autho
rize the President to raise an army, in cafe
of certain contingencies happening, viz. in
cafe of a declaration of war* of an aftual in
vasion, or of imminent danger of such invasi
on. But the latter power, it was said, left
the raising of the army to depend on the o
pinion of the President. He did not con.
eeive this. He apprehended that the faft of
the ixiftence of imminent danger was as af
certaiftable, as the other two: The Presi
dent would have to exercise his opinion in all
the thre; cases ; but not more in the last,
than in the two firft.
Mr. S. called the attention of the comtsit
tee to a clause of the constitution, where the
fame words were used in reference to the in
dividual dates keeping troops ou foot* It is
in the 2d article of the loth feftion. "No
sjtate (hall, without the consent of Congress,
lay any duty on tonnage, keep troops, or
ltiips of war, in time of peace, enter into
any agreement or compaft with another (late,
or with, a foreign power, or engage in war,
unless aftually invaded, or in such imminent
danger as will not admit of delay." Every
objeftion made to this bill, Mr. S. said,
might be made to this clause of the constitu
tion , bnt it (hews that the framers of the
Constitution were not so nice as the gentle
man from Pennsylvania appears to be. Mr.
S. thought the power proposed to be veiled'
-in the President by this bill was important
and proper. It was true, that by this means
the President might involve the country in
war before Congress could be got together ;
but if the event was necessary, every one
must rejoice that he had this power.
The gentleman from Pennsylvania suppo
ses there must be a knowledge of danger, be
fore any invasion can take place. This ar
gument would have applied against expend
ing any money on our fortifications. It
might have been said there was no need of
expence being laid out on them, except we
knew the enemy would make an attack in
that quarter. If nothing was to be done
■but upon certain jjround, we (houltl never
be defended. This army was not necessary,
he (Mr. G.) said, because we have no aftu.
al proof of preparations being made for an
invaGon of this country, and because it is
neither in the power, nor would it be in the
interest of France to invade us. This rea
soning, Mr. S. said, might answer the pur-,
pose of quisling the minds of some people,
but it was not fatisfaftory to him. He
should htmfelf suppose that it would not be
the interest of France to attempt an invasion
of this C9untry ; yet we had seen them in
vade and subjugate one country after ano
ther, where they had apparently as little in
terest to do so, as they would have to ceme
against this country. The fame inducements
which led France to invade most of those
countries, via. to obtain large sums of mo-'
ney, and other property from theai, may
aftuate htr in coming here. The army of
France appear to govern the Government of
that country aad the Executive Direftory
hate, therefore, an interefl in getting rid of
them, and if they could fend a part of tliem
to this country, they would be fatisfied,
whatever might be their fate. If many ci
tizen* of the United States have apprwieofi
ons of this kind, and ih-.fe appreherfiens
can be removed by a measure of this kind,
which would create no expence, except the
danger existed, he thought it would be a
defi rattle objeft.
For his part, he (hould certainly be in fa
vour oT tlte bill; for however distant the
danger mzty be, it is proper that we should
be prepared to meet it, if it does «omc.
Besides, if it was known in France that the
Prefiden; of the United States could imme
diately call out 10,000. men to at
tack wiich might be made, the knowledge
of thif'faft m ght itfelf prevent an attempt
being friade. But he was of opinion the
danger must be much more imminent than
at. present to authorize the raising of these
men. It may be supposed that England
will be under the necessity of making peace
with France. If this event happens, France
may perhaps employ a part of the British
fleet in an attack on this country, at lead
(he wul secure them from rendering any op
position to fueh an attack. By which
means, flie certainly might make such a
lodgment of men upon our coast as would
call for an army equal at least to this to re
pel them.
Suchan establishment, Mr. S. f*id, would
have greatly tile advantage over the militia.
They were out only three mont'usat a time,
and were of gourfe continually marching
and counter-marching. On jhis account
they are more exoenfive than regular troops.
The manner in which militia are difciplincd
and officered, he said, were also ifadvantages,
and it was well known that little depen
dencs could be had upon militia for any
lsng h of rime.
Mr. S. concluded by faying, that France
had at thij time a very large irmy in force on
their coast, and for ought we know, it may
be embodying for the purpose of coming a
gaioll this country. Or fappofe they were
to fend out a fleet to the Well-Indies, ; but
iafteadof going there, it come forward to
this country, could the President poflibly
know of thia in time to raise the army pro
posed ? He certainty could not. And in
such a cafe, how much worse a fvtuation
would the country he in, if inltead us enlist
ing men, he would have to call Congress to
gether before he could do it ? He hopad,
therefore, the bill would be passed, as if ne
cessity does not require it, neither the officers
will be appointed, nor the men r.'ifed
Mr. Dana observed, that the gentleman
from Pennsylvania had alledged tha the firft
feftion of this bill ought to be expunged,
for two reafoos, viz. because the bill was
unconfti utional and inexpedient;
If the bill 16 unconstitutional, the objec
tion is detifive. Why is it so? Becaufethe
gentleman from Pennsylvania fays it trans
fers to the Executive a power which is ex
pressly veiled by the Constitution in Con
gress alone. In a former argument, that
genleman referred to the tonftitution, and
said that it gave to Congress the sole power
of raising and supporting armies. Congress
has also the power of providing for caliing
forth the militia, and yet they delegate that
power to the President. In the one cafe, it
i; said ■" Congress (hall have power to raise
and support armies," in the other, " Con
gress (hall have power to provide for calling
forth the militia." If this difference amoun
ted to anything, it was to fay, that where
the Constitution fays Congress are to pro
vide for doing a thing, they may delegate
their power ; but where the other phraseo
logy 13 used, they must do the aft for them
selves.
He would examine this doftn'oe, and (hew
it to be fallacious. Congress have the pow
er to provide for organizing, arming and dis
ciplining the militia; for the punishment of
counterfeiters of the securities and current
coin of the United States; and to lay and
colleft taxes. So that upon the principles
of the gentleman from Pennlylvania, Con
gress must turn tax gatherers, borrowers of
money or money brokers, apprehenders of
coiners, and recruiting fcrjeants, occupati
ons which he believed few of the gentlemen
of that house would wish to undertake, if
they were in othpr refpefts fitted for the
employments.
The gentleman's conftnrftion, therefore,
proves too much, and is perfeftly ridicu
lous. What, then, is the meaning "of this
general power placed in Congress ? He be
lieved it to be, that Congress (hall define the
number of troops to be raised, and the man
ner and the time of their service, and having
done tha , he believed they have done all
that is necessary, the reft is to be submitted
to the Executive. This p'inciplg was by no
means a novel one Ithadbeen recognized in
not less than ten different afts. But it is said
that these things only (hew that Congress
ought to be careful how they fix precedents.
But will the gentleman from Pennsylvania
come forward, as if he were the Oracle of
Political Wisdom, the only High Prieil of
the Constitution, and fay, that these autho
rities have no weight ? In doing this, he
set at nought the wisdom of all who had
preceded him. Mr. D. then enumerated
the different laws in whidi this principle had
been afted upon, and concluded by faying,
that if it was not f r incurring unnecessary
expence, he (hould be in favour of calling
out these men immediately ; but not wish
ing this, he was willing the power (hould be
placed in the President in the manner pre
pofed.
(To be continued.)
i
Friday—may 4.
The House having resolved itfelf in a committee of
the whole, on the rcfoluti»n from the Senate,
granting leave to Mr Pinckney, our lateambaf
fador to Great Britain and Spun, to receive cer
tain prefenw from those courts, tod his taking
leave, Mr. Dent in tha#thair. The refolutioa
having been riad,
Mr. Bayard moved that the commitJee con
cur.
>. r M'Dowcll said, this was 3 new fsbje<9,
and, as it struck hiin, of importance. Not
withftaading he felt as mud. disposed as any j
member cf the committee to do every thing r<j- j
fpeflful KWt lite micufter to Lor.ion 2nd Ma- 1
drid ; yet, when he looked upon the caiifir.u- j
tion, ami rdlc&ed.upon the intention of the I
clause which forbid* the rcrcivit.g of prafents hy 1
our ministers, which mild I
flow from 1 precedent of this kind, he could
not eaflty brinjt himfplf to consent to it> un!.'f»
some gentlemen-could fliew the propriety or ne-
I ceflity of it itl a ftrohger than he at present
saw it. If, said he, we allaw our ministers to
receive presents from foreign courts upon their
taking leave, we m»jl also calculate upon giving
. presents to all th« foreign ministers who come I
here, and these, we have every reason to espeft
will be constantly increasing. BeCdef, he o!>-
jefled to the principle of these prsfents. What
afe they given for ? He supposed it was to gain
thpr friendly ajd good wifties towards
the eoi|at(jr who,g*vfi.Aep».. He tlvwcht this
.And he believed it would be wall
now to pot a flop to the bufiuefs, as a fairer op
portunity could never occur of trying the pfin
cipl?. for if eve't eoyld be allowed, in con
fideratioß of public fervieee, it "could not be
better deserved than in the present c«fe ; but be
lieving thte principle to he a bad one, he Ihould
therefore be opp#l'ed to it.
Mr. Bajaidfaid, every confiitutional objec
tion must vanifhou a fmgle view of the article,
because it allows that presents may be rsceived,
if the consent of Congrefe is obtained ; and so
far from the panftittttions insinuating that it
would be 9hd policy to allow these presents to be
reoeived, it proves that they might be received
if inconvenience -in receiving them could be
avoided. He supposed the confiitutional provi
vifion was meant to obligi ministers to make
known to the world whatever present! they
might receive from foreign courts, and to place
therafelvei in such 1 ftruation as to make it im
peflihle for them to he unduly influenced by any
such presents. Indeed, he supposed thefs pre
sents would produce 1 dire<SUy contrary effe&,
for when a minifler was k«own to have receiv
ed* prefentof thiitkind, he would naturally be
particularly careful of all his aifliOns, left he
should be supposed to bs improperly biafTed. If
presents were allowed to be received without
number, and privately, they might produce an
improper effeft, by seducing men from an hon
attachment for their country, in favor of
that which was loading them with favors; but
any evjl of this kind was securely avoidtd by
the notoriety «f the a<St. "7 . .
What, said Mr. B. is this present ? It is a
goldJhuff.bajc, a gold ehaiu, 1 prilure, or Tome
trifling thing, which could have no possible ope
ration upon any man. It neceflary he be
lieved, to attend to these little civilities and ce
rcrhonies, is the want of attention to them of
ten producecd heftility between nations. He
had some doubt, from the conflitution, whether
it was necefla'ry in this cafe, to have applied to
Congress at all for leave to have received these
presents, as the offige 0/ this gentleman hid ex
pired before they were oftered. Under the old
articles of confederation, a like provision was in
being, only that the receipt of presents by our
ministers was positively forbidden, without any
exception without lejve of Congress ; but their
being allowed to be received under the present
government by consent of Congress, shews that
they might be received in certain cases. He had
indeed, been informed, that notwithstanding the
prohibition under the former cenilitution, pre
sents were frequently received by ministers ; for
though persons holding offices were forbidden
to receive presents, the moment their office ceas
ed, and they became private individuals, they
were no longer prohibited from receiving any
presents which might be offered to them.—Un
der these circumstances, he thought the resolu
tion ought to be agreed to.
Mr. W. C. Claiborne hoped the present re
solution would not be adopted. When this ftib- i
jedl was firft brought into view, he felt inclined
to favor the request. This firft irnprefliotijirofe
frum h»» g'cw. prrrwuiU refpeet-for
and the desire he felt to gratify his wishes. But
upon a little refle<slion ; it appeared to him, that
policy dilated the propriety of rejefling the
present refolutisn. So far as relates to the con
stitutionality of receiving the presents in ques
tion, he thought no member would join in opin
ion with the member from Delaware last: up.—
By recurring to the letter of the gentleman
from S- Carolina ( Mr- Pinckney) it would ap
pear that these presents were offered to him when
lie was about to take leave of the courts to
which he was minister. He was of course, at
that time a minister of the United States, aud
came within the confiitutional prohibition.
This prohibition in the conflitution appeared
to him to be bottomed on found policy, and of
great importance to the feeurity of the happi
ness and freedom of the nation. [Mr. C. read
theclaitfe.] The objedl of this clause appear,
ed to him very different from what had been
ftatcd to be its objeil by the gentleman from De»
• laware. He believed it was intended to lock up
every door to foreign influence, to the influence
of courts and monarchies, which could not but
. prove baneful to every free country. He had
been teld that it was the custom of Europe when
a favorite minister was obout to take his depar
ture, not only to present him with presents, but
also lo confer a title upon him ; and if the leave
now aiked was granted, a precedent would be
eftablifbed which h* apprehended would} at a
future day, bring the question before Congress
whether leave should be given for a citizen of
this country to receive a title from a foreign
monarch, and thus all the folly and vices of Eu
ropean courjs will be brought up for discussion
before the Congress of the United States; and
he had no doubt characters might be found who
would desire fitch a diftindlion, and others who
would advocate the granting of it. On the
contrary, he was persuaded, that if the vote of
this house negatived the present Yefolution, no
futuje application would be made on this fub
je<£t. The reason, in his opinion, which induc
ed the insertion of a clause in the conflitution
that presents might be received, when leave of
Congress was obtained was this ; That in the
course of events, a cafe might exist in which it
might be proper for a citizen of the United
States to receive a present from a foreign gov
ernment. Many, perhaps, might be named j
he thought of one—Suppose an officer of our
navy were to render essential service to the vessel
of a foreign power in distress, on the high seas,
it might be proper in fueh a cafe, for Congress
to permit the officer to receive any suitable pre
sent as a reward for his service and benevolent
exertions in the cause of the unfortunate. But,
he believed, in all ordinary cases, every present
ought to be rejefted;
Mr. Otis saw no ground for the apprehen
fi.ons which the gentleman.from Tennefl'ee had
manifefted, as to the effedls to be produced by
concurring in the refolutisn now before them.
When every present to be received mull be laid
before Congress, na fear need be apprehended
from the effefls of any such presents. For it
must be presumed, that the gentleman who
makes the application has done his dtfty, as he,
at the moment he makes the application, comes
before his country to he judged. In the present
cafe, he iuppafed, no Idea could be entertained
that our minister had not done his duty, or that
he had been bribed by a foreign power, as a rea
son for not granting the requeit. But it was
: that gentlemen should afTert that if pre
i'epts were allowed 10 he received, Congrels
l might nejet be alked to consent to the intn dOc-
I tioll of titles for tbcronftitwtion expreisly h\i
I prefects«miy be received, but with refpetf to ti
l no titjc of nM>.lity stall be grant
kd." [Mr.Cliibome said, those were not th<r
words of the -con dilution to which he alluded.
What he had reference to was the following
" No person hplding any office of profit or trust
under the United S:ates, (ball, without the con
sent of Congress, iccept of any present, emol
ument, office, or title of any kind whatever,
from any King, Rrince, or foreign state. J The
I firft part, Mr. 0. said, was diftintf from the
last. Titles of nobility were exprefely forbid
den ; but presents, emoluments, offices, or ti
tles (not titles of nobility) might be reeehred,
by the consent of Congress. But as no title cf
nobility could be granted, the gentleman from
TeUiieiTee nted not be alarmed on this ground.
had not been e*fiud*fl, htflfcduld
haveluppofej, that at this . time of day, when
titles were going so faft out of fafi>ioß, that
there could be no fear of their obtaining here.
The intention of the con dilution, fie iaid, mufl
have been,lhat these presents should b(? received,
on their being made known to Congress, other
wise the clause would have been peremptory, as
under the old Congress.
Mr. O. said, it was altogether matter of dis
cretion in the gentleman from S. Carolina, whe
ther or not he had alked eonfent to receive the
presents in question : for he is at present no «f
---ficer of the United States, and he m jghr receive
them as a private citizen: He believed he had
a perfe<sl right to do so, though it might not
confirt with the deiUfecy of his chara&er. Mr.
O. said, he had it from the best authority, that
even under the old confederation, though pre
sents were unconditionally prohibited, Dr Frank
lin, Mr JefTerfon and Mr Laurens, received the
cuftomtry presents on their departure from the
foreign courts at which they employed.—
Tb-v to be sure communicated the fa<f\ to Con
gress after they had received them. And they
received them for a good reason ; because they
they could not refufe them without giving um
brage to the courts which presented them. ffc,
therefore, thought it ye r y improper for genfJe
men to suggest difficulties of the kind.which had
been brought forward, as if the gentleman mak
ing the application was personally concerned ;
it could not be coufid£red as any objedl to him.
The qneftion was merely whether we would
conform, or not, to the cuftems and usages. of
othier natioas with refpe<ft to the'prefenti 1 ia
queftionj in which there certainiy could bvi no
thing either dangerous or alarming.
Mr. Macon had no doubt eongrefs had a right to
grant, leave b receive the prelents in question, and be
lieved the detrmination in thiseafe would fix the u
sage in future. He believed an application could ne
ver be made to the bouse, in which there could be
less obje&ion to the applicant, than in the present
cafe. He was convirted the gentleman from Mafla
chufetts need not to hive said that this was no objett
to the gentleman frotr S. Carolina. He was sure no
one thought so. He believed it was improper to
bring any personal eo*fidcrations into the question
He was sure there had not been a more popular aft
done for this eountry fcr a long time than the treaty
which that gentleman had concluded withSpaio. But
the committee werf told this resolution ought to be
adopted, because :t was an European custom* If,
said he, we adopt this custom, we m«ft adofjt anoth
er—that of payirg foreign naintfters who come here ;
and he owned h« (hould not be willing to fee any of
them carry off the money of bis constituents, because
he did not think the coadu£t of any of them wasde
ferving of such a fee.
The gentleman fom S. Carolina had made a condi
tition refufal of the presents offered to him, and he
now wishes the pfint to b$ fettled by congress, whe
ther, he (hall recede these presents or not. He had bo
idea, whether these presents were a gold fnuff box,a
gold chain, a pifture, or 300 guineas, they could
poflibly haveany etfrft upon the applicant. Nor
had he much star about the introdu&ion of titles intb
thiscountry; for if any such thing were ever propof
•d, there would be such a scramble for the highest a
mflngft certoin^cntlemc j n l that he believed it would
Mr. M. said, it might not always happen that the
applicants sot leave to receive these presents were free
from obie&bn ; and in such cases, very unpleasant
and pro&ably very lengthy difcuflions would Jake
place. He hoped, therefore, the custom would now j
be put an end to. *
Mr. Bayard remarked, that the gentleman from
Teuneflee feemrd to be greatly alarmed left the agree
ing to this refalution should destroy the liberties of
the country ; and that a precedent of leave being gi- 1
ven to a minifterto accept of a gold fnuff box or a
gold chain, Ihould hereafter be brought as a fan&ion
to the granting cf titles or nobility. But heafkedthe
gentleman, as a lawyer, whether he conceived that a
precedent foYgrantiiig ,-erm'flionto a mioifter to de
ceive a fnuff box, could be adduced as a precedent for
granting titles of nobility ? It certainly could not.
1 herefore, as to precedent, the gentleman might feel
himfelf perfe&lyat ease. There could be no doubt
but the congress of the Onited States might give their
consent to a citizen receiving a title from a foreign |
power j but he could not apprehend that they would
ever do so. Was this, then, to be brought as an ar
gument against allowing a gentleman, against whose ,
conduft the moll flandeious tongue had never said a
word, from receiving the customary trifling presents
011 his leaving a foreign court ?He truftcd not* He
allowed, it v/ould be a precedent for the future in this
refpeft, arid that congress might expe& to be called
upon hereafter for similar per millions. But he did
not think there was any thing alarming in this, the a.
mount would be very trifling ; and he did not know
that having a few additional gold fnuff boxes in the
country could produce any material effeft. As to the
cohftitalfoual «fucftton, he thought?Fwasat fre hard al
ready ftatcd it.
Mr. Venable wiftied that every thing which was
said on this fubjcfl, might be said without reference
to the gentleman making the application, but that it
might be con&dered as eftabliihinga general principle
which was to operate hereafter. It was said that it
was neceflary to accept of these presents as a point of
etiquette, and that the refufal to accept of them, might
give offence. He did not believe tnis could be the
cafe, as it was well known to the European courts,
that our government is established on principles total
ly different from theirs, and when our mmifters in
formed them that their government did not permit
them to receive presents, it mutt be a fatisfa&ory rea
son for not accepting them. He knew that these pre
sents were sometimes made in pi&area, lomc. -nesin
fnuff boxes, and fonietimes in money. And, said
he, if these prefentt were not fan&ioned by custom,
would it not appear an indelicate thing to offer these
things to the minifler of a foreign country ? It cer
tainly would. If the origin of the custom was, there
fore, a bad one, the United States ought not to adopt
it, (ince they had now the choice of doing so or not.
He hoped the United States would always make fuffi
cient provision for their own ministers, and not per
mit them to receive any thing from a foreign court.
A contrary custom, to fay the least of it,jwouid prove
a very troublesome and disagreeable one.
(To he continued,)
V try Great Bargains,
CONSISTING of Table Linen, Scotch and
India Muslins, nnw fdling off and well
worth the attention of Housekeepers to make
puichafe of Etiquiie of
Thomas Randall,
No. 88 Spruce-Jirect.
may 17 §
TO *F. RENTED,
To a Small Genteel Family.
APleafant House in Dock-street, near Front
llreet— Apply *t No. 155 South S«cond-
Street.
may 17 i
3CI Tt(sa3Ette.
PHILADELPHIA t
■< SATURDAY EVENING, May ig
CONGJRESS.
Yesterday the House of Representatives
®f the United States parted the bill for railing
a Provisional Army of ten tbonfand men, and
for authorizing the President to accept of the
services of the Volunteer Corps, and to commif
fton their officers, 51 votes to 40. A motion was
patted, without debate (laid upon the table
yeftcrday by Mr. Sitgreaves) for reftrift
ing members, during the remainder of thcfel
fion, from speaking more than once to any
question, either in the Houle or in Committee
of the whole. TherefoHitjon for inflnittjng
the committee for the ptoteflion of Commerce
and the Defence of the Country, to report
what nieafures are proper to be taken for se
curing, removing, or otherwise reftri&ing se
ditious or difaffefted Aliens, or others, w»
agreed to without a division or debate. Th«
house went into a committee of the whole on
a bill to amend the present Militia Law. It
confided of nine feftior.s. The two firft \yent
to make uniform exemptiens from service
throughout the United States, taking from the
Individual States the power which they now
possess of making their ownextirfptions. The
fix next fettions proposed fines on officers and
men negletting duty, and other regulations
refpefling muttering. The ninth section pro
vided for the purchase of a quantity of arms to
be diftributedamongft the Militia of the fe.
■veral States. Alt the (efitions, except rhe lad,
yrere (truck out, and it was recommitted to
the Seleit Committee to undergo some altera
tions. A motion was made to adjourn till
Monday, but negatived 37 to 36. The house
accordingly meets to day.
From N EW-TO RK.
*
MR; FENNO,
NEW-YORK FEDERALISM
Is all a (ham —I would not give the (not
inconsiderable portion of the genuine Ame
rican Spirit that animates Philadelphia, for
all the tinfrl of patriatifm,»hac_glot£Xi .here,
Nobody here seems to give any attention to
the fhtte of public affairs or to have any
concern for them ; no exertion* are mad*
ro exclude foreign politics, intrigue and id
folenceor to suppress the views of domestic
faftion. Nothing of this kind" is found iji
the newspapers—nothing in the places of
public resort—the conversations at the Cof
fee House are as foreign to American affairs
as to those of China. I hearnothingof those
important topics which rhoreorlefs should oc
cupy the mind of every American- From the
view of the publi c mind here, it would pe
ter be fufpe&ed that our country is Jabour
ing under unexampled embarrassments—that
foreign infolencc and rapine have desolated
our commerce and prostrated our national
honour—have driven us to the verge of
war and heaped insult and distress upon u»
beyond all example, and infnfferable by 3
free and independent nation*. I find the
people here eagerly driving at commercial
bargains, ruftjing to fix-penny vendue* and
talking for hours over a farthing per cent- in
a policy of iufurance, while the general ru
in that hangs over our heads, the storm tbat
threatens to sweep them and their project*
to perdition is entirely unheeded and un
gpjSrScS-ngainit. Qui 1I11» in not all—
criminal fupiqenefs—this rageofcommercial
avarice is not the only fin of New-York.—
It will be incredible to a PhiJadelphian, but
it is true, that while the tri-eeloured cockade
is to be met with at every corner and even
at the coffec-houfe, no man dare be seen, or
at least no man is seen with the American
cockade. It was worn, as I understand,
for a few days, and taken down for fear of
giving offence to the other partt. Great
Heavens ! who are the other party, that
they are to be thus refpefted ? Fugitive
foreigners and desperate fcoundrcls"urged on
Ky the perfidy and intrigue of French vil
lainy—you know that in Philadelphia, no
man could walk a square with a French
cockade unless he is a French comtniffioned
officer. lam informed that at " Vauxhall
Gardens" near this place, a Fienchmenhad
the daring ihfolence to attempt te tear the
Black Cockade from the hat of a young
gentleman. I believe he did not succeed,
but his bones were not broken, and no pub
lic indignation was excited by it as I can
learn. At the Theatre last evening the
President's March was not once played or
called for; ThefrientTs of government here,
those who detest French rapine abd irtfo
lence, are inadtive, supine and funk in the
occupations of sloth and avarice ; or the
strength of the French faftion is so consider
able that they dare not oppose it. Thank
God ! we have a different tone at Philadel
phia ; I hope it wi'l be commurticated to
the drowsy drones of this place,- and ani
mate them to a jufl sense of the duty they
owe the honor of their connfry and a pro
per exertion to maintain it. They fend on
spirited addrefiVs , but those who sign them
dare not w»er any emblem that would mark
them as friends of the government.
For the Gazette of the United States.
MR. FENNO, *
A few days ago an extra&of a letter from
Citizen Hedouvil e, the new agent of the
Dire&ory at St. Domiugo to Citizen Leg
tombe, the French Consul, was published
in Bache's paper. It purports to b« an in
- vitation to the American merchants to con
tinue their speculations to the French ports
of St. Domingo ; ar.d left; they might be
' deterred from it by the recent decree of the
1 Direftoty relative to with Bri
tish prody&ions, he affuree them of his de
termination "to take for the rule of his
conduft towards neutrals the arret of the
cotnmiffion of the government of the 27th
I Vendemaire last." It i perhaps unnecefiary
"to give a caution against confiding in the
promises of French agents, after the uni
formly fatal experience we have had of their
disregard for faith andjuflice: yet ftrely
no merchant, not already desperate, will,
under the present afpeft of affairs, be difpo-ft-dto ventnre his property in any Frrnch
port.
JBut let us recur to the decree of the 27' h
Veademiaire which the itizen thus pro mi fes t
to make the rule of his couduift. It may <
be fpm at large in your paper of/tbt26t|b J
December last. The fallowing is part of j
its preamble :
" The pommiffion desirous of conforming ■
itfelfnot only to the orders but even to the 1
intentions of the Executive Direftory, when 1
they come to its knowledgeof decrees, &c"
The decree then, relative to neutrals laden
with British produ&ioris, being emphatically ;
•not only the will and intention but the aftual 1
orders of the Directory, will of course be >
pun finally executed by citizen Hedouville, '
notwithstanding his Teeming aflurances to 1
the contrary. <
UT". a Ifrjj 1
• The decree of Vendemiaire enafls,
■" 1 ft. That the arret of the commiflion !
of the 18 Nivofe last, which declare* good
prise, neutral vessels cleare(J out. for English <
ports and coming from the fame, is re- '
pealed. '
2d. And nevertheless. by way of reprisals '
against the English, who, in contempt of !
the laws of neutrality, daily permit them- \
selves to stop neutral veflels bound to the
French ports of the colony, when they are '
laden with proviflons, the French cruifere '
are authorised to carry into the ports of the 1
Republic neutral veflels deftinea for English 1
ports, which have provisions on board, and '
there shall be paid to the said cruisers, by ivay
aj indemnity, one dollar for every barrel of
flour and Jolt meat they may bring in.
" 3d. The ar et of the commiflion of '
the 6th of last Nivofe, which declares good 1
prize neutral veflels destined for ports of the 1
Windward and Leeward Islands of Ameri- '
ca, delivered up to the English, occupied '
and dt fended by the emigrants, shall con- 1
tinue to be executed according to its form \ '
and renor, unl ;i , t (hall be otherwise order- 1
ed by the commiflion." 1
The remaining articles of the decree relate :
to the appointment and organization of a
Frire-Courr, the tnoft striking circumrtarices
attending which are, that of the three judges
which constitute it ; the firft named is citi
zen Adelon* " Captain of a ship in the
service of the Republic and that they are
allowed one ptr cent on the property fold un
der their decrees. No wonder then th?t on
the 2d of last November, they condemned
two American veflels bound to French ports.
It is also worth noting, that the pream- '
ble of this decree declares its obje£t to be,
"to foften the measures which the commijfion
hadpurfued againfl neutrals and the means
it feemß are (among other things) to give :
a bounty of one dollar to their brigands for j
every barrel of flour or fait meat they ihall
plunder from an American.
MR. FENNO,
By giving the following sentiments a place in yaur
ufeful paper, you will oblige a Subscriber.
National honor is not as some represent it a
vain phantom,,* mete vox nihil pt-mterea. A ration '
without honor, i» canfequently a nation without j
the main spring of power—ln lufing this essential \
ingrc<i ; «Ht, its energy is inevitably weakened, anil \
its spirit enfeebled—Every nation therefore ought,
with jealous vigilance and noble courage, to watch
and defend its honor ; to be carefHl left by one I
mean fubmiffioJi, it encouraged an attack upon the
its
the continuation ot its peace. Fatal experience
convinces that one mean fubmiflion osly invites
another more enormous aggression. America it
now drove to the unhappy dilemma, of either dif
graceful fubmiflion to a dtfperate enemy, or of
4rawing the fivord, and with it preserve our
dignity, liberty and property, or die honorably—
This dilemma is so 'bfolutely true, that one or the
other of the f ropofitions must inevitably take place
—it admits of no medium, as did that by which a
Roman citizen wished to induce Fabius t« hazard
an action with Hannibal- Fabius eluded the argu
ment of this patriotic citizen, by faying he woul4
tmporine bffforehe would rifle his life in the defence
of his country. Thi, wife policy the American go
vernment feave pursued ;we have temporized in ,
a degree beyond all eaample, submissive and pacifie.
If moderation and pafiive forbearance ere proofs
of magnanimity, we are the most magnanimous
nation on earth. Thedefpotsof France firfl plun
der, rob, and mal-treat our citizens—We are af
tonilhed, we are alarmed, we pause,—what mufl 1
be done ? We fend a mimfter for the purpose of 1
" refloring harmony"—he lays hit credentials be
fcefore the directory, they will not lifte' to his sup
plications, treat him with the utmaft contempt,
threaten to iwiprifon him for residing in their terri- (
tory, and then order him to quit France ! What |
nation w mld have fuffered theft insults te go un
fnjnifbed ? What nation would have borne these in- ,
juries unreclreffed ? Yet America, anxious to live in ,
peace arid hsrniory with all oations, fuopreffes her ,
angsr,"jnd fu(fains theßltlju>ies; again fends forth I
the olive branch of peace in the hands of three »f '
her moll diftingmfhed citizens—The haughty ty- ]
rants of Fiance, again treat our pacific offers with
contempt, continue plundering our citizens and des
troying our commerce,to thegreat distress & ruin of
»ur nation —and to fill the cup of humiliation so
the trim, after these minister's of peace petition a
longtime altheiloors of those imperious dire&ors,
they are graciously pleased to fend an agent to in
form our envoys, that they will admit them to
their prefmcr, provided they will pay them thefum
of fifty thousand pounds flerling —And moreover,
♦hey have threatened us, if we do not comply with
their difgraceful and haughty demand, with the
fati of Venice, viz. Srfl wrest from us all our pro
perty, and then fell us for a price to a dcfpotic mas- a
ter ! ! ! '
Americans! you who once had courage to avenge 1
your wrongs, and vindicate your rights, you who
hav« ihed your blood fer the independence, honor '
and liberty of your country, what are your fenfa- *
tioni ? Can you hear with composure those impe
rious and haughty attack» upon your dignity ! Can
you bear with indifference this load of the rnoft (
gross and atrocious insults ? Can you view with (
complacency this voracious enemy devouring the a
fruits of your labor and industry ? I hear you all f
answer, NO—You proclaim with one spirited voice, (
" to arms ! to arms ! we will proteift our indepen- f
" dence, liberty'aa<i property, while a drop ef I
" blood flows in" our veins; although we have t
" Ihev/n an unfeigned disposition for peace, we aie <
* not incapable of war; n;ir forbearance hereto- '
" fore ha! not been tbe dilate of fubtviflive cow- c
" ardice, hurVhe offspring of magnanimous mode- 1
" ration Experience proves that our endeavors to
" preserve our rights By peaceable means Have pro- c
" ved abortive, aDtf only tended to aggrandize and '
"l enrich this proud and insolent aggressor ; there-
" fore we are compelled by the implacable and un-
" relenting ammoftty of France, by the indigni- t
" tics we have fuft'-'ined under her domineering j
" hand, to defend our honor, independence and c
" rights with the drawn f'.votd." These must be n
tU declaration of every true American,— ate v
■the unequivocal fenttjnente of a Native Apici iear, a
who wears the COCKADE. it
French SctiElv. on CanaoA.
The Redafleur, aParis paper, of the
1 Oth February, cotitafis the following very
cirious article, addrea-d to the Emigrants,
advising them to the(Jiiixotic fchcme of at
tempting the Conq'itft of Canada. We
give the Redadleur's <fcvn words.
\_After having remMcd them, that death
•ivit! be their lot if they ire to put afoot in the
in'erisr of the republie, fud that .indigence and
contempt await them eve*/ where abroad, the
RedaSieur exijaims
" Emigrants! heat the voices which call
you to the banks of the n'rer St. Laureiice.
Canada claims her deliverance'; be y- her
redeemers. She was naijied New
because the French jnads the firft fettle
mept there. C»tulu&c3- by Samintl-.Gham
olain. the FtCTich in i6flt fou*ded;Que
bec. Go, retake that country, and rejture
to it the handsome name or New-France.
Every body knows,-that at Boston theEn
glifh united themselves in 1753, to form
the projeft of invading Canada', and from
thence proceeded towards the ports of Roy
al Island, which is the key of Canada. Well
then ! let America also become your rally
ing point, and the spot of your outset.
diftributed among chiefs, who are a
blc to guide you, and who have previously
concerted the mei ns. of attack,; go and de
prive Great Britain of her prey. Thus
revenge of the homicidal government which
fobafely facWficed you at Quiberon. May
the blood of young Sombreuil rife against
England, and recoil upon her 1 In placing
his foot on France, Sombreuil knew well
that the law had pronounced his condemna
tion. O heavens ! to have seen tbe English
themfclves become the authors of his deftrnc
tion, to have seen them fharaefully fly on
board their veflels, to have seen them turn
their own artillery on the fliore where he
and his companions had embarked ; to have
| seen them it'difcrimmately fpirad havoc and
death among the ranks of tfie Emigrants,
as well as thdfe of the republicans—this is
the infamous perfidy, which from the bot
tom of bis tomb cal son you-to expiate. If
fojufl a cause cannot animate you, fnter
eft at least ought to make yon fcndble. In.
stead of wandering from court to court, beg
ging for support, which as ofreji is eluded
as it is oromifed, instead of going at a great
distance to a people, to whom yourmere pre
sence is fubjtdi of umbrage, wbofe affronts
you must brook, and whose dicontent you
provoke ; instead of tunning headlong in the
arms of death, which is ?ufpended over your
' heads, if ever you transgress the limits,
which the fundamental code has forever fix
! Ed between France and you,
j " Precipitate on that foil, where the most
fertile lands are open to cultivation—where
rich mines furnifh iron equally convenient for
labour and military valor, where vast forefts
may become the dock-yards of a refpeftable
! navy, where the beaver (eaftor) will afford
I to you its rich spoil and lelfons of industry,
where every objedt will recall to your mem
' ory the glory and labours of your aHceftors
wh.'re the numerous swarms of unfortunate
1 Frenchmen, whom the Britiih yoke has on
ly rendered so much more attached to their
mother country, will alleviate yaur pains,
salute you in your own language, and be
hold in you the
Go form there an honourable system and es
tablish settlements, which shall restore you
to your former refpeftability : and ptrhaps
thofs to whom the law represents yoti in a
nother light than as rebels, perhaps those may
be forced by you to esteem your courage,
to wish for your good success, to second you
in so generous a projeft. Emigrants think
hereof, you car. neither return to France,
nor remain ill foreign countries. Canada
is a country as large as Europe ; It is New-
France, which England stole from us. Pu
nish England and be deserving of having a
country.
Frmlht PITTSBURGH GAZETTE.
Mr. Scull,
IT is rumored that tbe chief justice, now on the
circuit of the western counfie« this state, i». (bat
tering th? fire-brands of difcon:cnt and sedition in
his course, by operily espousing the cause of the
French direftory, and reprobating the condu& of our
own government.
This report, however unfounded, has caused me
some inquietude, because it will be eagerly embraced
by aliens and emissaries, for argument, to delude the
ignorant and the ipconfiderate—it will be no difficult
matter to persuade such characters to believe, that the
opiniors of the firft judge of the commonwealth, a
gcotlem?n grown grey in office, and diftlh^ui(lied for
his talents, can but flow from the pure fountains of
wifctom and truth— untinflured by the prejudices of
party animqfity—unbiaffed by tbe stings of pcrfovial
mortification —uncorrupted by the mania of foreign
attachments : 6nd while the credulous and incautious
are thus beguiled, others more thoughtful and intel
ligent may reasonably conclude, that a proper sense
of the dignity of his station—os the fofemn trust at
tached to tha: station, and the awful responsibility in
which he ftauds to his country and his God, for the
temperate and impartial administration of that trust,
would restrain the chief justice ffom mingling in the
Heentioui controversies and vulgar altercations of the
times, and much more from propagating dodiines
and opinions, of national import, which do not left
upon the solid grounds of candor and integrity.
To prevent the mifchif vous effefts of this report,
and to difarm'thofe who wish to avail themfclves of it
for ftnifter purposes, I will venture to pronounce it a
vile calumny—for it leems incredible that fudge
M'Kean, who ranks among the firft move's of the A
merican independence, should so entirely abandon
! his own principles, ar.d so completely desert hiscoun
i try, as to bend the witling knee to a foreign domina
tion, and become the infamous advocate of a cause
rotten to the bone—lt is impofiible that any man of
the Judge's underftariding should hazard his name,
his fame and his forturte, in the desperate defence of
a band of usurpers who disgrace tbeir species, and
have brought reproach upon the human race—who
have long fwce renounced the laudable motive*, which
gave birth to the French revolution—who have
ftnee discarded all sense of religion ! —eveiy obliga
tion of morality f—every principle of hortor, and
everv impulse of humanity—who have dHTemina:ed
theirckOru&lve do&rines, and carried their frightful
deviations over the faireft portion of the world
who have (hook the foundations of fotial order,
throughout the continent of Europe, and hariqg plun
dered tfye neighboring nations, until no spoils are left
to fatisfy their now cast tbeir rapacious views
toourdiftant fhorcs, and seek to extort base bribes
froin us, as the price of peace. I portray ftrohgTy,
Mr.Scull, but with ftri6t regard to truth, tbecolor
ings of my pep mav be vivid but the picture is fairly
drawn, is it poflible then, that the enlightened
chief justice of Pennsylvania, t^otruftee of order and
the guarriian of religion and the la\vs,
with fuel) f.ubfcorii fa£ls before his eyes, should iifp
a breath to juftify a band of fiee-booters, who Jive by
the sword—who futfift on blood and plunder^-wfio
.' 1 - ! .• : . - » ? • !
delight in carnsge and 'irfTiU mo- '
mrnt ahticijpate the violence '
an 4 rapine ihali fail w fd'pport a loun- ,
Hed in trrror and malntanvd c^cijrmi; and the
iTiooftro:** fabric rumh'tMif ißio'&icCc,, briiij* per
di.ion upon inc licp'ls 0/1 u rt ii. -..vuavt: the
wrongs and l»avo«Jieen it IlrOed
on mankind, t>y ( J . o-r-a ck.
No, Mr Scull, we haye arrived at t date o'things
too serious for qudtion u brought omc
to every Amcrie-n H ifoin.'-Ihall* we prefcrve our
dear brtiight inirpcnde.K • at eveiy hazaid, or be
come the miferab c dependent* of a foreijn p >wer—
thisu BOf]U?fti >n of federal: :n or antt-fcdcrali!m--
*>{ an't'M.'ac or crem'ir*3r-- but whether we Ibai: con
linue freemen or become ft.ves- -whether we thall
gavern - utfclvrs, Qr. b; governed by a foreign nation,
whose language we dp not-even ur.deritand- -and which
has already : with the fate of Venice, in
humanlv partioned oi«l baWy bartered to ihe cmoe
ror of G rmany. '' '
In'.rrns ike these, (he dh ; ef juftire will be telefax
eur'i pest ro utter iS 3 fc^\titn^nt l , J bi« J) 1 J
in-ill beat ttronr; with true Ameriqanifin, srttj' tHe
"ttiiidcr in queHton, in the wTcWrd
ferain of some f<S-eign incendiary, fime ipotfate A
merrcari, or venal ertiiflTjry, who fearing public
indignatien, might anticipate the tardy I'.eps of regu
lar jurti e, to barll upon his head, has corflrived to
palm it upon the judge, to secure to it currency and
countenance, while he meditates on further mifcbiels
in lecrecy and in fafety.
AMERICANUS.
Extra&of a lettar fram Lilbon, March 31.
" A French army, it is reported, is march
ingagainft this country ; they have demanded
a paliage through Spain, which (he cer- i
tainly comply with. It is further stated, that
the King of Prussia is a<fitng as mediator
between the French and our Court.
"This day a tonvoy of 12 (hipsunexpected
ly arrived from Maranho(Brafcit) which brings
cargoes of great value."
The United States fliip the Ganges, Capt.
Dale, of 20 guns (nine pounders) having com
pleted her preparations far sea, is now lying
at anchor in the cove, with"a i\ill complement !
of men.
The Cutter General Greene is aifo com
pletely armed and manned.
To the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES.
Sir,
WE, the underlined Jurors attending
the Circuit Court cjf the IJnited States for
the diftrjfi ps Maryland, think it our doty
to address yon od .the alarming fituatien into
which our public affairs have bdtn bfdtight
by the unconcyiating fpfrit, ambition and
rapacity of those who now govern the Re
public of France.
At the firft dawn of she revolution in that
country, we fondly hoped that a new era
was opening upon mankind, • when liberty,
julliee and humanity would take the place
of slavery, rapine and cruelty which had too
long difgraeed the world. Allured by this
delusive phantom, mar.y of us long excused
the errors and apologised for the crimes of
that ill-fated people.
But at length our eyes are opened, when
we fee them airairg deadly blows at the
small remains of republica'nifm in Europe,
and menacing us also with dfftru&ion, the
only people on earth who have ever (hewn
them sincere friendfhip, and who have no
thing to reproach ourfelveswith, as to them,
but too fond, toa blind an attachment. On
a calm retrofpeft of the condudt of your
illuftrions Predecessor, and a view of the
measures which have been pursued during
your administration with.regard to that na
tion, we can perceive nothing which ought
to have offended, nothing unattempted that
-cmiVrWjaTe averted tlte r2lamrty with which '
we are threatened, unless we had ehofen to
have become their ally in a war foreign to
our interests, and probably fatal to our in
dependency.
Anxious as we always have been, and (till
are, to avoid war, yet we are persuaded that
there is one evil greater and more dreadful,
national degradation, the certain harbinger
of flavcry. Accept then, Sir, ou/affurances,
as in some meafute representing our diftrift,
that yoih will find us animated with the
spirit of freemen, and determined at all
hazards to defend the rights and indepen
dence of our country, and if there be any
of a different sentiment, as hath been pre
sumptuously asserted, they will be found
few'indeqd.
John Campbell, William C. Brent,
Richard Forreft, Charles Wallace,
Ifatc Pollock, James Williams,
Charles Carroll, jun. Alexander Green,
John Galloway, Samuel Bayly,
Denton Jaques, William Dallam,
George Kennedy, Randolph B■ Latimer,
Patrick Murdock, Samuel Robert/on,
Evan Gvjinn, Thomas Notuland,
William Lee, J. J\ Bugb,
Samuel C. Hall, Jchn R. Key.
Annapolis, May r ßth, 1798.
ANSWER.
To the Jurors attending the Circuit Court of
the United States for the dijlria of Mary
land.
GENTLEMEN,
I THANK you for tin's address
The French revolution was a phenomenon,
so unusual in the modern history of the
world (although the changes of dynasties
were csmmon in the great empires of an
tiquity) and held up to our view in the
amiable light of reformation and regenera
tion, while its deformities were carefully
eoncealed from the public in America, that
it is. not surprising, that a new sera was
thought by many to be opening upon man
kind. It is now apparent to all men, that
slavery, rapine, and cruelty, have been aug
mented and multiplied, inilead of being suc
ceeded by liberty, justice and humanity.
I rejoice that your eyes are at length
opened ; the deadly blows aimed at the small
remains of republicanism in Europe, and the
menaces-os deftruflion against 11s, who have
nothing to reproach ourselves with, but too
fond,' too blind an attachment,>cannot fail
to alarm every candid mind.
The fatisfaftion you expref. in the con
duct of the Executive authority of this
countrv towards France, is very acceptable.
Many strong indication* have escaped, from
time to time, for fevtral years; that nothing
would fatisfy the French rulers, short of our
becoming their ally iu a war, foreign to our
interest, and to our independence, by
becoming tributary to their ambitious views
* f . ' V. - •'
: of univcrfal (domination, by Tea a d laud,
! aiul to the rapacious avarice ot influential
' individuals.
This nati na! degradation, tbe r certain
fe,rt'hg?r or flavcry, or rathor slavery itfel',
is certainly an evil greater, and more dread
ful than war.
Your determination, at all hazards, to
defend the rights and independence of your
country, shews you to be animated with the
spirit of Freemen* and does you great
honor.
|OHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May ißth, 1793.
H* ■ i NORFOLK. MAT 10.
Tfyftftfljawing address vas umnimMifly*agreed to at
i , Meeting on Tburfday Ja!^-—The fenti
nKnta contained in it perfe£tyy correfppnd
' fTM-itbv which the member* of vhil meeting Wt.re
actuated—Love of Country, Liberty and Indepen
dence.
TO THE PRZSIDFMT Of THE S NIT ED STATES.
SIR,
AT a moment when foreign d ingers threaten pur
peace, and when these dangers originate in an opin
• icti that our government and our people are divfded
in Centiment, and opposed in interefL We, inhab
itants of the borough of Norfolk, feel ourfeJves im
pelled by every consideration of honor as men, and
integrity as citizens, to expfefs our ur.fhaken canfi.
dence in the measures of our govcrnmen'. and our
unimpaired attachment to the principles of our con
(Utution.
j In renewing those measures of our government,
which are the avowed caafes Of the unfriendly 90*1-
du£fc which the French republic has pra&ifed towards
j us, we feel an honest pride in txprefftng our opinion,
f that impropriety or censure cannot juilly attach them
felvcs to those measures.
In examining the steps which have been pursued to
ob aia an amicable adjuftnsent of existing differences
we fee with pleafurea liberal, candid and fmcere dif
polition on the part of our government, to jelinquifh j
every secondary confid ia»i 11 for the maintenance of
j peace ; we regret that those difpofrions have not been
i inc with sentiments equally pacific, with a temper
equally conciliatory aud accommodating on the part
or Trance.
While we avow the. friendly interest which we
have formerly taken in theaffairs of France, we rcj?&
with honest indignation her inadirtiflible demands;
we spurn with manly pride the imputations ot disu
nion and difaffe&ion to our government, on which
these demands were founocd.
We deprecate a war. as pregnant with evils to all
countries, and particularly inimical to the iQieiefls
of the United States \ but we arc at the lame time
determined nor ro purchase peace at the ppce of that
national chaia&fr and individual fecUrity. without
which peace ceases to be cither honorable or dpfira
ble.
While, therefore, we hope that a returning sense of
juftica and moderation on the p2rt of Fraece, will
terminate our disagreements by friendly explanation,
and honorable reparatfou; while we rely that our own
governmtnt will not cease to avoid war, by every
means confident wi'h our national honor, and com
patible with our national interest, we yet truß that
measures of defence will be immediately adopted, Sc
that our couutry will be prepared to meet every poffi
ble event.
Should these measures, defenfive in their nature, and
prompted by a neefflary regard to our unqueilionable
rights, be considered as indicative of a hofliledifpo
fition to the French republic, the governmarft of the
United States stands acquitted to its citizens and the
world. Providence alone can determine the issue.*
we pledge ourfeivesthat it will be fortunate 1q far as
our steady co-operation and support of the govern
ment can render it so.
CITY OP NEW-YORK* J[.
Personally appeared before me, Wm. Bache, Pub
lie Notary in and for the Slate of New-York, duly
appointed and sworn—Nathan Franklin, Henry Da*
vis and John Melcher. all native citizens of the Unit
ed States of America, iind late seamen on board the
fbip Merchant, capt. bound from this port
on a voyage to Bristol;
Who being duly sworn on the Holy Evangelists of
Almighty God, depose and fay, that they failed 1*
the said (hip from Sandy Hook, on the evening ©f
theJ7th inft. that abou' I > oYJor.k day -fur, they
""wereboarded ard captured b) a certain French priva
teer (loop called the Jean Bart, commanded by an
Iriflaman-—mounting ten 6 pounders and four i«
poundcarronadet; that during the time they were on
board the (aid privateer, she also took a (hip called
the 1 capt. Holland, bound from Liverpool to
Philadelphia; and that after having left the laid pri
vateer, they saw her chafe another (hip, which she
came up with, and these deponents suppose mult alio
have fallen .a facrifice . and these deponents further
dep-ifpand fay, that the offi-eTS of the (aid privateer
used every means to prevail on them to enter on board
her, p'omifing them a lhare m the plunder of tht
said (hips focaprurcd fror^their countrymen, a pro
posal which they all refuted with disdain—and these
deponents further fay that there were on board the
said priva eer, twenty seven Americans a£ling as sea
men, some or whom were per(onaliv known to these
deponents; that after detained by the said pri
vateer till the icth iudant, they, with ten others, were
put on boaid the Hoop Hannah, bound from Caroli
na to Rhode Iflond, and that (hey came to this place
a few days ago—That they since entered themfelvcs
as ieamen on board thc'Uilited S.ates Frigate, to serve
their country and iupport its honor and independence.
Nathan Franklin,
Henry Davis,
_ , r J°H« MSLCHiR,
Sworn before me this )
17th day of May, *9B. {
Wm. BACHE,'Notry Public* «
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
Arrived yesterday the (loop Plato, Grif
wold, New-York 5 days, with guns for the
Frigate.
Came up from the fort—the brig George
Hall, from Port-de-Paix, and fchr. Nancy,
Golding, Aux-Cayes.
1 Arrived last evening at the fort—the fch.
Poll, Huggins, from Jercmie, from whence
(he failed the 29th of Aprils in company
with the following vessels, that were pressed
into the service of government, under convoy
of the fchr. Fly—viz.
Ship Jofephus Kennedy, of Philadelphia.
Olive, John fun, New York.
Br.g Polly, Senky. Philadelphia
Fnendfhip, Gallagher, do,
Profpero, Willies, New-York
I. Fox, Pope, dO
- Drifcol, Baltimore
Sloop Farmer, Freeman, Norwich
The above vessels were bound to Port-au-
Prince, to aflifl in the of that
place, which had been determined upon and
orders for that purpose received from Go
vernment. Capt. Huggins also informs tb?.
the (hip Perfever-mce and Deborah ofthi 1
port, and generally all large vessels are
taken up for the above fsrvice. Left at Te
remie the
Ship Deborah, Yard, of Philadelphia
Cornelia, Gilbert, CharlestOn
Brig Dolphin, Reynolds, do
(lope, Hofitjeu,, Portland
Scho. Happy Couple, >rew-York
Charming Belfey, Myrrck, Kaltimcre
• k Little John, Hafl,
Patty, Lynjan, ' . do '
Rovfr > . Warren
At the Caymetes,
Ship 81.-.e'< Rivev, tit' K.:w-YuiJf.
Br ; £ James, Jem'meiiy, of Plr"JOtlyh
M.iy i Capt. Huggins spoke the br,;: Pol
'y., Sc'nkey, who had dipt away from the coil- >
voy.,
Aifo arrived at the fort lart: e\ r en:T>f»j tiiS
febooner Yearman, Crane, i'ays from 3t.
Jago de Cuba; kffthere the brig John,
Smith, of this port, to fail in'tefi days, and
fchsoner Louis, Jonfcs, do. in five.
The (hip Jane, of Nsrfoik, from P-irtcJ
RicO, and thrte brigs, one from Bofto;> on;!
from Nova Scotia, and the other from Sa
vannah are beiow.
The captain of the Vefiel which brntijht the
Cannon for the Frigate from New-York, who
arrived here yesterday, fays, that on paflage
he saw a French privateer hrig off Egg Harbor*
lying too under her top fails.
■...■cinr i -v. .'u' —
By this day's Mail.
BOSTON, May 15. 1793.
From Amsterdam.
Capt. Elbridge, failed from that city
March which was before the New Eleft'
ions took place in France. He heard, that
our Envoys had had, or Were like to have
an audience of the Directory. The free
election by the Citizens of Amjlirdarn, of
their Municipal Officers,had been set afideby
De la CrOix, the FrenchMmifter Pleoipo.
They were driven from their place of fitting
by a detachment of soldiers, and the crea
tures of the Minister placed in their (lead.
The people of Holland are extremely dis
contented with their si' nation.—ExtraiS of
a letter from Amsterdam, MarcWo, SS..
"We have bad a dreadful shock in ihe!
Hague, twtßty-fix members of the Nation
al Convention and different Committees are
urideraweft, for what cause is not yet known
but they, were generally of the moderate
patty, and it is thought our form oi Go
vernment will become the fame as that in
France.
" Weft India goods have g£t up, and
there is no knowing whera they will it*; p.
We are now busy in this Town, in dntwinij
up a petition to the Dutch Government*
which is tube fignedby all those interfiled
in the American trade, t6 request this Go
vernment, to use all their influence with
the French Directory, so as to prevail on
therti to order their wuizers not to molest
American {hips coming to this country.
What effefil this may have tpwards the fafe
ty of the American flag, I Jcnow not, but I
fear they will lirten but little to the too fob
miffive voice ef this country. ,
" Letters from Paris iay tbat'your Agents
have at last had two or three conferences,
but the result is not known.
FROM ALGEZIRAS.
Capt. Rich, from thence, informs, that
th# principles for the capture and condem
nation of American vessels are not improved
The Spanilh privateers, it was said, were
about to resign their present Commissions
and to take Frenches they could then be
certain of always having their prizes condem
ned ; but now they were sometimes acquit
ted. The account of the Death of the Dey
of Algiers is contradicted.
GREENS.
'"pHE Gentlemen of the Troop are parpen
-1 larly requefled to meet at the house of
Barnabas McShane, in Third street, to morrow
evening at 7 o'clock—a number of new mem
bers will be balloted for.'
John Morrcli, Captain.
may 18
Macpherion's Blues. "
NUMBEK of the Members of this Corps,
-/X taking into view the critical fituatiori of
their country, propose ti«their brother fol.lieis
to meet at Mr. Danwoody's, in Market-street,
on Monday next, at $ o'clock, V. M.
may 18
The SEVENTH VOLUME of
this Gazettee has been lent by the Editor It
whom is not recollected; it is requejledit may
be returned.
Cj- IF Mr. Charles WUlMmltiemekc,
Formerly of London, a;id who left England for
I'ome part of the United States of America, in
the year 1796, be living, and will apply person
ally or by letter, to Mr. John Carrere, in Balti
more, or to MetTrs. ffaac Hazlehurft and Son,
inPhiladelphia, he may hear of something great
ly to his advantage Any information refpedl
mg the said Mr. Charles Will,am Klemeke,
would be thankfttliy received.
m »y r 9 * d 3 w
FOR saleT
A neat Country House,
THREE and a half miles from the dry, on
'be W ifl'ahiton road, w:th seventeen and a
half acres of land, half in erchard and half in
grass. Apply to Ebward Bonjall& Co.
in Dock-street, or to the fubfcrifeer... at Mount
Pleafjnt, on Schuylkill, adjoining the premises.
Jonathan IV\Uinms.
N. B. If not fold before the firft of June, it
will not be for sale during the season.
19' tfij
For Sale, or Charter,
THE ARMED SHIP
belvidere,
Jok-athan Reynolds, MaS„,
JeiTejapd Robert Wain's
burthen 256 tens, built at
New-York, by Mr. Cheefeman in 1793, of live
oak, cedar and locuft—wa6 completely coppered in
London last year with «g ounce hard' rolled navy
copper, and copper bolted. She is well known to
be a (launch and fall failing (hip, i« well found
mounts ten carriage guns and may be to Tea in
a few days at a very little cxpence. For tes m. of
charter or price on a liberal credit, apply t>n hoard
to capt. Reynold'* or at the M« ebant'« Coffe-
Hoafs, to
RICHARD D, AltDElt.
V/HOHAI FOR SALE I N BOARD SAID SHtP
to Tons dry white lead
S Tons of (hot
13 Tons rolled (heet lead
so Bales Englilh Duck, aflorted mim[>e>*
10 Tons whiting
"ay 19 5
FOR SALE, V
About 660 boxes of fine Spanish
GUNPOWDER,
CpDfaining 1 eo l'os. each.
Appiy at So. 13, earn* of Areh a,-: Front ftrec-,Ihe Subscribers
havi tor sale,
Six Tons of Cordage,
ASSORTED,
Two hundred weight of firft fort Isinglass.
Philips, Cramond Us Co.
may r8 jc
Madras and Ventapaulcm
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries,
of the oeweft and mod approved patterns, entitled
to the drawback, just received,
ANA FOR SALV BY
Alex. J. Miller & Co.
No. 64, South Front street.
may 18. $
WANTED,
IN A PLtASANT IImTION,
WITHIN a few miles of T«wn|(for a Lady,late
ly from Board and Lodging, in a quiet
reputable family—would engage so* five or fix
months, and give very little trouble. A line di
reiled to J. S. and left at the Printing Office will
he attended to immediately.
may 18 *3t
This Day Publi/hed;
By J. O A M X 0 D,
No. 41, Chefr.ut-ftreet, (price cents),
A SERMON Pleached in Chrtfl Church and
St. Peter's, Philadelphia ; on Wednesday
May 9, 1798, being the day appointed by
the President as a day of falling, humiliation
and prayer, throughout the United States of
Nerth America. By James Abercrombie, a.m.
ene of the assistant mimfters of Christ Church
and St. Peter's.
A ferunon delivered by the Rev. Doc.
Green, «n the fame occasion, will be publiihed
on Monday next.
raiy 18 3t_
Country Residence.
A FAMILY who live Six Miles from the City,
xvifl) to receive two or three genteel boaid
ers. The Houfc is handsomely iurniihed; the
Gardens, Meadows and Lawn are beiutifully laid
out, and well (locked with thceheiceft Fruit.
There arefeveTal Musical Inflrumeilts, amongst
which is a mod excellent patent Piano Forte. The
Family have a handfoire Coach, which may be at
the service of the Whole.
The Coach House and Stables are mod excellent
—thfi Water good—and the Air unequalled in the
environs of the Town.
For particulars enquire at the office of this Ga
zette. dtf
may T6.
A Morning School,
From fix till eight o'clock, is opened at
The New School Room,
Back of N«. 147, in Chcfout Street, for the Edu
cation of Boys and Young Men in the Englilh and
French Lcnguages, Writing, Accounts, &c.
may 14. Iff j. WATERMAN.
A few boxes of Umbrellas
To be Sold cheap—by
Mordecai Lewis.
may 17 daw
FOR SALE.
A THREE Story Brick House, on the north i
fide of Spruce-street near Second-street, J
adjoining the wall of Mr. Jones's garden and !
formerly occupied by David Lenox, efq.—Thk; 1
house is in compleat repair frith badk buildings,
confiding of a Piazza, Kitchen and a handsome
Dining Room over the Kitchen.
As any Person inclined to purchase will view
the premifes,a more particular description iscon
lidered unneceflary.
The terms of payment will be one third ealh,
one third in 6 months and the remainder in 12
months with interest. For further information,
Enquire of JOHN CRAIG,
N: X a lyaek-flt-rrt.
may 16 §
■ EOR SALE,
A Black Man,
WHO has five years and a half to serve, is a
good coachman, an, excellent waiter, and
has been accuftomtd to marketing for a family—
-Ims age about thirty two years. For fu ther parti
culars, apply at the office ef this Gazette.
may T5. _
Furnished Chambers---lo Let.
THOSE Gentlemen, Members of Congref- and
others, wiffiingto engage for the nextfeffion
of Congress, Chambers, fnrni(hed in a modern
fiyle, and in a very pleasant and central part of
the city, may hear of them by applying at the
office of this Gazette. ee»w ma T '°'
1 WANTED,
APPROVED BILLS on Amflerdam —for which
cash will be given at the rate of thirty seven cents
per guilder. Enquire of the Calhier of the Bank
of the United States. § april 23.
Cedar Posts, Rails and Shingles
FOR SALE.
THEY will be delivered to any place in Mary
land, Pennsylvania, New-Jersey, or New-
York, where boats drawing fix lett water can go
irom this place. It will often suit the feller to
4-eceive in return corn, provisions, wet or dry
goods. Letters dire&ed to the fubferiher at this
place, and put into any post office in the United
States, will be regularly received and carefnlly at
tended to. Thole who wilh to contrail in Phila
delphia, will please to apply to Gimon Hill
Wills, No. 135, Market-ftreot. The fubferiber
is desirous of contra&ing with some responsible
perfen in Philadelphia, to receive and dispose of for
him, on commission, a quantity of two feet Shin
gles, for home use, and of two feet and eighteen
inehes, for exportation.
William Hill Wells,
Dagfborosgh, (late of Delaware;
april 28. "»4»
" iSotice is hereby Given,
TH AT application has been made at the Bank of
the United States, for the renewal of the fol
lowing five Certificates of Bank Stock, loft by the
capture of the Britiffi Packet, Countess of Leices
ter —viz.
N0.3 70»,containing 5 (hares "> Ifiued to Henry Ca
-733 I do. issued to Edwerds
and Co.
3188 5 do. issued (in lien of
6joo to 6513) to Samuel and Henry Waddington.
1918 4 do. issued to Phyn, El
lice and Inglis. .
All persons concerned are therefore called upon
to (hew cause why new Certificates (hould nojjbe
issued agreeably to the said application.
April 14 eoCw
For Sale,
A Fapm and QovNTJtr Seat,
SITUATED on the weft fide of the Schuylkill op
pofue to Norris-town, feventecn miles from Phi
ladelphia—the farm contains 195 aces of land, 50
0 J which are woodland, about 40 of meadow, and
the xetl arable land. The houfc and garden which is
laite and well paled, Hard in the molt pleifani fix
ation, commanding a view of tho river, an island
which is opposite. and the village of Norris-town—
There is a shad filhery belonging, to the place.—En
quiie in Philadelphia, No. 96, Third Street,
o, on the premises.
ypril 16
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCTI i, I 79 8 -
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN purfuwjce of the A<a of Ongrefs passed on the sixth day of Jthy one thousand seven hundred and
ninety-seven, ev.titlcd " An Adl laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper , and the
A<Sl paflkd on the fifteenth day of December, «ne thousand seven hundred and m-nety-feven, entitled
i< An A<l to postpone for a limited time the commencement of, tie duties imposed by the Act enti
tled "An Act'laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from and after the
firft dayaf July enfoing, the feveralStamped Dutieshereafter enu»erated, will be levied aud collec
ted throughout the United States.
For every (kin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or (beet of Paper, upon which (hall be
written or printed any or cither of the instruments ar writings 1 olio wi«g—to wit:
r ' >Dh Cts. | Mis
Any Certificate of Naturalization, ..... 5
Any Licence to praflice.or Certificate of the adrni (lion,enrolment or registry of
any Councilor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate orProdor, in any Court of the
United States, ... - - 10
Provided, that a Cerdficite in any one of the Courts of the United States
for one of the said Officei, (hall so far as relates to the payment of the
dilty aforel'aid, be a fufficient ad million in mil the Courts of the United
States, fore«ch and every of thefaid offices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or avsthority of the United States
(except for landß granted for military services) , - - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any such grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military services) - - - 2
Any Charter-Party, Bottomry, or Refpondentia Bond, - *
Any Receipt or discharge for or on accountof anyl<tgacyleftby any Will or 9-
ther testamentary inftrument,or for any (hare or part of a perfor.al eilatt? di
vided by force ot any statute of diftributi»ns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceased, the amount whereotfhall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and (ball not exceed the value of One Hun- .
dred Dollars, - - - *_ 2 S
When the amount thereof {hall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
(h»lt not exceed five hundred dollars, - . , r "
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional lum of j
Any Policy oflnfurance or inftrnment in Rature thereof, on any (hip, veffei or
goods insured from one diftriiSl to another in the United States, _ *5
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for whirfi
Insurance is made (hall not exceed five hundred dollars, -
When the sum insured (hall exceed five hundred dollars, - I
Any Exemplification, of what nature soever, that (hall pass the seal of any
Court, other thaß such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furnifh for the ul'e of the United States or some particular Rite, - 5°
Any Ron 3, bill single or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promiflory
note or other note, other thau any recognizance, bill, bond, or ot>er obliga
tion or contrail, made to or with the UniteiPStates or arty fttte, or for their
use refpeilively, - - - - " "
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above: one hundred dollars and not exceeding five handred dollars, 25
If above five hundred dollars and pot exceeding one thousand dollars, 5®
And if above one thousand dollars, - - -
Provided, that if any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within Cxty days,
such bonds or notes (ball be fubjefl to only two fifth parts of the duty t
aforefaid —viz. -
Jf .above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dolU«» - 4
If aboveone hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred doljat s, 10
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, ao
If above one thousand dollars, - - ' r C av. 30
Any Notes issued bv the banks now established, or that may hereafter be eftab
lilheil within the' United States, other than the not6s of such of the said Banks
as (hall agree to an annual composition, ot one per centum on the annnal di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders rel'peflively, according to
thfc following scale. - *' t,
On all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar,
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding oue hundred dollars, 50
On all notes above ,one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - - - ' 1
On all notes above five handred dollars, - *
Any Protest or other Notarial ail, - - - /„ „ r **
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid pension, or to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
performed in the late war, - •
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for less than
five hundred dollars, c* • 1
For five hundred dollars and»hot exceeding two thousand dollars, 2
For more than two thousand dollars, ... 3
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
K from one diftriift to another diftriA of the United States, not being in the
fame State, - - • 10
If from the United States to any foreign port or plage, - • xj
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effedls, made in -any
oafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
rent or taxes, and poods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share in any Insurance Company, of a (hare in the Bank of
the United States, or of any State or other Bank,
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars, - - * A
If under twenty dollars, at the rate often cents for one f
11.
The dutiesaforelaid will be colle&ed and received by the Supervisors, Infpefiors aud other Officers
of Infpeition, in the several Diltri<fts, Survey® and Divisions of the United States, and by such other
persons as (hall from t« time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diftrifts for
that purpose.
r 111.
The Supervisors of the several Diftridts will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and as soon as
may be pra<Slicable, mark or (lamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of thefaid duties ; Or
(lamped vellum, parchment and paper n.ay at the option of the Citiaens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rates prescribed bylaw, by application to any Supervilor, Infpedcr, Officer of Inlpe&ien,
or other psrfoa appointed for the diftribntion of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diftrids
GIVEN under my Haud ,jit Philadelphia
the day and year abovementioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Marcb 10. Secretary of the Treasury.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
Marth 30th. 1798.
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT byanafl of Congress palled on the
19th day of March, 1798, the following
alterations and amendments have been made to
the aft parted on tbe 6th day of July 1797, en
titled "An a& laying duties on Damped vcl
" lum, parchment and paper."
. i
The ilamp duties on debentures or certifi
cates for the drawback of Customs or duties on
Imports are repealed.
It.
A discount at the rate of seven and one half
per Centum, will be allowed by the Supervisors
or Infpeflorsrefpeflively, to any persons other
than Officers of the Revenue, who may por
chafe at one time or procure ta be (lamped, any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment or Paper, upon
which the duties (hall amount to Ten Dol
lars or upwards.
111. V
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold at
the rates prescribed by law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for (lamped Parchment or
Vellum, in additional price will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each (kin of Parch
ment, or Two Hundred Cents for each (kin of
Vellum of medium size, which may be furnilh
ed at the expense of the United States and pro.
portionally for anyleffer quantity.
Given under my band, at Philadelphia, the
day and ye tr abmiementioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
To be Let,
(And possession given on the id of May)
A genteel three story brick House,
12 feet front, and 40 feet deep, with back buildings
and ftibles,at present in the tenure of Major Jack
son. Enquire at 187 South Third ftrect.
April % §
yusf~p UB I, ISHED,
AND FOR. SALS AT THIS OFFICE,
(Price 25 Cents J
Reflexions on Monroe's View
OF THE CONDUGT OT fHB EXCCUTiri,
As pnblithed in the
Gazette of the united states,
Under the (ignatute of
SCIPIO,
In •wlicb the Commercial Warfare ef France it triced
to the French Faction in this Country, at iti Source,
and lilt Afcth/et oj Qfrpofttivn, tjfe.
TO BE SOLD, by
John Nixon s£f Co.
A quantity of very excellent LOG WOOD
NOW LANDING AT THEIR WHARF,
may 10. 3awtf
Frefli Teas.
JuJl Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Salt, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Co*npting House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,
and sr
. SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon,Y oung
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, aflnted; black and coloured Lute
{lrings and Sattiiw, Nankeens, Cafiia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutettring Umbrellas,
whale-bone sticks.
'They have alf* Ftr Sate,
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchiefs,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes.
march 8. S
Now Opening,
At Wit n a m M'L a w s Saddle Manufa&ory,
No. 72, Chef nut Street,
A general aflortment of Horseman's
Pistols, direit from the Manufacturers in London.
ALSO ON HAJiV,
Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartouch Boxes, Va
lices, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness,
april 9 dtf
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the2oth
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven ■ Dollars, at W«, BLACKBURN's Lott.ry
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-flreet—-
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at "Ten
Dtllan, where check books are kept ior rugifter
ing and examining in thefie, the City of Washing
ton, No. 11.and Pattsrfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets maybe had in most of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The bnfinefsof a Broker, inbuyingand
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Sccuritier,
difcoanting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, &e. &c. will be duly attended to,
l>y WM.«BLACXBURN.
November 15. 5
The following Certificates of
FUNDED DEBT CF ■TUX UNITED STATES
STANDING on thelJwksof tfce treasury, were
forwarded for Lo*n by th. (hi, W.lWa
Pcnn, Captain Jofiah, *h»ch hath been captured,
and the Certificates fuppfed to be loft, viz s (
3164. Ba. Deferred «*bt, m the name of Re*.
E'lward Giddy, ofThredrea, in Cornwall,
Great Britain, datedjune », 1797- Certificate J
No. 10,071. ... r ,
ton. m. Six per C<nt. Stock, in the name at
Edward Home, of Sevis mount, Hants, Great
Britain, dated May3o, 1797. No. 15196. <
3610. Co. Deferred Debt, in the name of Will- <
iam Mantling, of Ormfby, in the county of Nor- '
folk, in England, dated July 10, *797- No. ]
*0199. , . ,
40183. 7». Three per Cent. Stock, m the name ,
of Jaanet Maths*', of Upper Seymonr street, ,
London, Widow,dated GAober 31 1797- No. |
118x0. i'-i -
For tfee renewal «f the above Certificate. »p- ;
plication V intended to be made at the fud office of ,
jhe Trcafury of the United Statss,—and all j>er- (
fans concerned aredefired to takj notice.
ALSO—IS THE SAM* VISSF.L, .
Fifteen (bares Storkof the Bankof United States in
thename of William Manning, ef Ornvfcy, coun
ty of Norfolk, England, viz. Three Certificates
for five (hares each, dated January I, 1797-
No. 15981, 15083, 15984.
Fomhc renewal of which,application is meant to
be made to thi said Bank of the United Mates, .
and all persons concerned therein arc delired to ,
take notice. .. 1
JN. yAUG HAN. (
Philadelphia? may 4. (
the following Certificatesof Shares J
IN the North American Land Company, standing
on the Books of said Company in the name of ,
Daniel Lifter, of Hackney, in the coynty of Mid- ]
dleftx, England—viz. No. HJI. 'representing ,
1309610 13105, ten (hares—No. tijo—l3o66 to
13075, ten ill arcs —No. 1149~" to 13065, (
ten (hares—No. 5148—11509 to 11518, ten (hares
—No. 1147—H471 to 11480—Amounting to
Forty Shares, were forwarded for London by the
(hp William Pern, which having been captured, .
said certificates are supposed to be loft ; for the re
newal ef which, applicsjion will be made to the
Board of th« said company.
Daniel Neal Lijler.
may 1 *H6w
New Tea Warehouse.
tfo. 39, Sooth -Front Street, ~
eVPOSITI POST-OFFICE.
THE Subfcribcr refpsafully acquaintsherfricads
and tht public, that (be has opened a Store for
the sale of allkinds of teas, imported in the late
arrivals at Bolun and Philadelphia, (as under) and
which (he is determined to fell om reasonable terms.
It will be hcrcoiftant endeavour to give fatisiadion
to those who please to favor her with their cttftonl.
Country ftoreswill find it their advantage to deal
wi h her, as (he can at a moment's notice assort
them any quantity wanted, and will allow a reason
able credit on approved notes.
Imperial, Hyibn, Young Hyson, Souchong,
Hyson Skin, and Bohe*—Alfo, Coffee and Loaf
Sugar for sale.
Sarah Eaton.
April il * »&th.6w
JUST RECEIVED.
And for sale by W.Young, corner of Second
and Chefnut-ftreet. M. Carey lit High-ftrect
T. Dobfon, 41 South Second-flreet and the
Boekfellers geoerilly,
(Price ;-Bths #f a Dollar.)
BEACON HILL,
A Local Pom, historic and deforiptive 1
By a Lady of 80/leit.
'analysis of book 1.
Allusion to the surrounding Prol'peift— Invocation
to the River and sylvan Deities—to the Historic
Mufe—Fi&iun ilifcarded—Dedication to Walb
ington—The A&ion opens axthe Retreat of the
—Bunker's Hill Own
ren—Perfenification of Fortune and Fame—
Wafliington at Mount Vernon—called to the
chief Command—Formation of tha Columbian
Camp at Cambri Ige—Natural, moral, or poli
tical History of the several States—Their com
manding Officers—Siege of Bofton—lts Suffer
ings—Negotiation for the fafe Retreat of the
British Army—Us Departure—Appointment of
Congrefa—Declaration of Independence—Cha
raAer of the Columbian Sc.klies—The Pact's
prophetic Apostrophe to the Progress of Free
dom throughout the World,
march 30. §
Valuable Stands for Bufinels.
FOR SALE—by the Svbfcriber,
Two Lots of Ground,
Situate on the south fide of Chefnut-ftreet, be
tween Second and Third streets : —one containing
eighteen feet, and the other seventeen feet, more or
e fa, on the said 1* cet, and both extending, the
lf'me breadth, one hundred and forty-eight, more
or less, to Carter's alley.
There are, on Chefnut-ftreet, two two-story
BRICK HOUSES
(Numbers 80 and 81)
Which may readily be made into one ; and, oh
Carter's alley, there is a convenient, well built
htree-ftory
Brick. House and Kitchen,
Aim oft new, which has two rooms on a floor
and a front of eighteen feet on said alley.
This property is clear of ground-rent, and an
indisputable title will be given to the purchaser.
The three Houses will be fold separately or toge
ther.
Further particulars may be known on applica
tion to
ZACHARIAH POULSON,jvn.
No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet, or at the Library.
march 13. jefißw
Salisbury Eft ate.
THE Subscriber, propoling to contrafi hii busi
ness. offers this Estate for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of stones ; also a good Forge, all
in perfeft repair, at are all the Water Works conneft
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built for the purpose of calling Cannon
for this State. —There are about two thousand acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land,'producing the belt Hay and
Pallure. The Cannon lately msnnfaflnred there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
(uperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; fpr not one ®f (ixty-nine guns
lately made, although some of the 94 were' bored
into 32 pounders.have failed on proving. The situ
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufafturr, aad a place ot arms lying in the date
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from several land*
ings 00 the Hud Ton's river, anul having every advan
tage that can rcfult from a plenty of water iSuing
from a large natural pond, very oear the Furnace,
and which may be'converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all the (lock and utensils, and have poffefiion
on or before the firft of June next, and preparation
may be made in themeanwmefor gqinginto Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
in good order, with Come coal, Ore, &c. Sec. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
! phi a; David Brooks, Elq. one of the Representatives
in Congrefsfor this State ; Mr, David Waterman, on
' theprenwfes, ortotbepropiietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee. t, gawtf
MaffachufttU
By Order of the Honorable John LowHi,
Efquirc, Jsdge of the Diftria Court for
the Massachusetts Diflnil,
NOTICE is hereby given to all person*
concerned," That a Libel is filed in said
Court by Chriftlan G. Grutxmacher, late Com
raander of the Ihip Corona, of and from Ham
bureh, and Henry Andrew Heiasas agents for
the owners of said Ship, against sundry goods,
wares and merchandize, saved from laid ft-
Corona, wrecked on Cape Cod within laid Dif.
tria on the 16th March last—which goods,
wares and merchandize, were consigned to di
vers perfonsia Philadelphia, in the DiftrnS of
Pennlylvania, and elsewhere—and tint said Li
bel is filed as aforefaid, fqr the freight fa-d to be
due te the Libelants on said goods, wares and
merchandize, ai>d for neceflary expences paid
by them which have arisen upon the fame—
And that trial will be had upon the aforefaid
Libel at a Diftriift Court to be holdtn at the
Court-Houi'e ;in BtiJFon, on OTtftrdav rh e eigh
teenth day of June next, at u o clock, A. M.
* SAMUEL BRADFORD,
" Marjhal" of Massachusetts!*
Dated at Boflen, Jlpril ( tawtf
ay?, 1798.
FOR SALE,
THE whole or one half of a PLANTATION
on ike river Delaware, between Burli-ngton
and Bordenton (two miles from the latter), con
taining about 4CO acres ; 60 of which are bottom
meadow, an 1 100 wood land ; there ate 30 acres
of red clovrr to cut this year (exclusive of mea
dow) but will exceed jc the next ; and any quan
tity of manure rrny be had for the upland from the
me&cow without injury.
An orchard of grafted fruit yielding between 60
and 70 hogsheads of excellent cider ; a dwelling
houfe with a barn, liable, granary and othtr n«-
cefTary buil ings go with one part in cafe of a di
vision ; on the other are no improvements, but has
one of the molt elegant fituttions for a house to be
seen on the river. The land is of good quality,,
suitable for grazing or agriculture, and convenient
to market by land or water. For terms apply to
the owner on the premises.
Thomas St- John.
May 5 eodtf
Germantown and Reading Turn
pike Road Company.
Subfetibers Corhmiflloners appointed bjr
-- JL kn Afl of Aflembly of tills Cummonvtealtli
entitled, "A n a& to enable the Governor of thi*
Commonwealth to incorporate a Company for
making an Artificial Road from the city of Ph -
ladelphia, through Germantown, by the rout
of Ckefnut Hill, to the twelve mil* floße on
the Heading Road, and thence to Reading in the
county ofßerks," hereby give notice, that book*
are provided as the law direits, and that we
will proceed to receive fubferiptions for the com
pany'# 1 flock on the aßth, 19th, and 30th day 9
of May next, at the City Hall, in the city of
Philadelphia,at the Tavern of William Buchois,
in Germjntown, at the Tavern of Jacob Berr,
in Reading in the county of Berks, and at the
Tavern of George Phleger, in Potts-Town in
the county of Montgomery, cn the fame days,
from ten o'clock in the morniag, until two 0'
clock, P. M- en each day, when and where cer
tain of the Comm'ffioners will attend to receive
fubferiptions accordingly.
April 14th, 1798-
BENJAMIN CHEW, jun.
CASPAR W. HAINES,
SAMUEL BET 1 ON,
GEORGE LOG.iN,
JOHN FROMBERGER,
ISAAC FRANKS,
JOS HEISTER,
J. BOWER,
DANIEL ROSE,
SAMUEL LAVERTY,
N. B. Fifteen Dollars to be paid on each
lhare at the time of fubfci ibmg.
April 17 —eodt|?oM
Schuylkill Permanent Bridge.
THE Subscribers being the fi\ persons ft fit named
in the Letters Patent, ilTued by the Governor
of th'sCommonwealth, bv virtue of the Aft r>f Gen
eral AffemWy of the 16th ult. for incorporating thrr
Company —hereby give notice agreeable to the 3d
feftionof the laid law, that they have appointed, and
hereby request a meeting of the fubfcriberi at the
State House in the City of Philadelphia, on the thirty
firft day of this instant May, at ten o'clock in the
forenoon, for the purposes mentioned in the said 3d
feftion, which if hereafter published for the inform
ation ot the Stockholders.
Richard Peters,
John Perott,
Matthew M'Connell,
William Sheaff,
George Bickham,
WiUiam Nichols.
Philadelphia, Ift May, 1798.
Sefiion 3. And be it, further enabled by the autiurih
aforefaid. That the fix Perfont firft named in the Let
ters Patent, (hall as soon as conveniently may be af
ter fealingthe fame, give notice in two or more pub
lic' News Papers in Philadelphia, one whereof (ball
be in the German Language of a time and place by
them to be appointed, not less than thirty days from
the time »f issuing the firft notice, at which time and
said Corporation and shall choose by a majority of
votes of the said fubferibers by ballot, to be delivered
11J Person or by Proxy, duly authorized—one Presi
dent, twelve Direftors, one Treasurer, and such other
officers as they ftiall think neceflary to conduft the bn-
Gnefs ot the said Company for one year, and until 0-
her officers shall bechofan, and may make such bye
laws, rules, orders and regulations, not inconsistent
with the laws of this Commonwe • Ith, as shall be ne
ccfTary for the well ordering the affairs of the said com
pany: Provided always, that no person shall have
more than fifty votes at any eleftion or in determining
any question arising at such meetings whatever num
ber of fbares he or ft»e be enltlcd to, and thrt each
person (ball be entitled to one vote for every (bare
: by him or her held under the said number.
! FOR SALE, ~~
i Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &e. fituateon
| Water ltreet, between Mulberry and Safiafrau
, Streets, containing in front on ftreet fit
r ty-foiir feet, and containing that breadth east-
I ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
, south thirteen feet fix inches. Thele houses
! have the convenience of a pubfc a " e y a°j°< n *
' ing on the north fide, and area very defirablefii-
J uatioa for a a merchant, flour faftor, or others
who may have occasion for ftarage of goo ».
f This property will be fold on very reafonabte
- terms for calh. For further information app y
• to the printer. . .
- april , H^lL
5 For Sale,
r A good situation for a Country Seat,
„ Forty acres of Land, /
r> On the Old York road, within fight of Ger
- mantown, *nd about five miles from the city.
d the whole being under good fence, and in ex
r cellent order as pasture ground.
" For further inforxnation and terms, app y
n Jonn Elliott Crksson, at his Office fortK
sale of Real Estates, Conveyancing, &c. No. S*t
High-llreet. .
4th mo. 3d. tu&ll