of tf>e tUntttD and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
By John Fenno, N°; 119 Chefnut Street.
1716.J
FOR SALE,
THE * RIC
Weft In<3 an,
3K Philadelphia built, live oak and
eedar, is coppered, fbeathed and bolted, 3 ytars S
old, fails remarkably well, carries tJ a l6oe bar- 11
rels—now lying at South-fir. •« wharf, ready to °
load Pi*, i£R BLIGHT. "
march 6. §iw
S A L yr n,
3500 to 4000 buflhels of large * (
grained SALT, ti
Tram St. Martin's on board the Slip Spy, at the
6tiM House wharf—f.r sale by
Stephen Kingston,
46, Walnut Street. ti
SAID SHIP ai
Will fail in a few days "
0r avanna^lll Georgia.—For freight
or passage apply as above, or to the
Oaptain on board.
' _ *eod3t
For Hamburgh, «
V THE SHIf
Dominick Terry,
Jacob Dehart, Majler, j
Having great part of her cargfe en
gaged.—For freight apply to
JtJJe & Robert Wain. A
'
Nicklin fcf Griffith,
At their Store on Walnut Street Wharf—
HAVE FOR SALk, I
58 hhds. of Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wine in pipes andhhd«.
Teneryfie do. in pipes
Old Port do. in hhfla. fl
Imperial Tea in quarters and eighths ®f chefti a
Sail Canvass, No. I, to 8 _ v
Dimities, Ginghams, a»d Muflinets, in packa
ges suitable for the Weft-India market
Nai's '
Black quart bottles
Queens ivare in hhds. and crates
Yellow tfchre dry in calks j
And at New-York, on board the
ship Diana, from Liverpool, expefled round v
as soon as th» navigation is open,
Fine Liv« rpoel Salt f
Coals . - '
SpJniili Brown "J
Venetian Red
Purple Brown : PAINTS
Patent White ; l
White Lead
Red Lead j
€oleothar vitriol
160 bundles Sheathing p»ptr
Seaming Twine
Ship Diawa, t
For Sale or Chatter.
ALSO,
firm of Philip Nicklin ic Co.
is now oi anged to 1
NTCKLIN GRIFFITH.
Jaguar v I. eodtf
Ko:r Sale or Charter,
i*!ln 7 he Snow
mm',. GOOD HOPE
A Will carry about 1200 barrels, and
Jis read v totake in a cargo. For terms
,pply lo n r
Pragers Cf> Co.
No. 151, South Second-street.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar
and Ruirf, Madtfra, Lisbon, and Teneriffe win®.
7.
For Sale by the Subscriber,
Forty-nit>e bales of Muslins, being the re
mains of the (hip India's last cargo f»om
Calcutta, and will he fold low,
7 Boxej of Umbrellas
45 Pipes of finelt particular Madfeira wi»e,
of thr vintage of 1795-
Mordtcai Lewii.
Fcbru nry 19 diw
Wanted,
An aiS-ive, ele«nly, industrious woman to cook
«d do the business of the kitchen. Such a one
ill br allowed good wages, and no other needap
y.—inquire of the Printer.
February 7 §_
Btifton Glass Manufadory.
THR citizens of the United States are hereby
in&jrmed, that the misufaiUire of Window
•Glass is now commenced at the Glass House »n
B °ltTs ne» dlefs to fay anything of the excellent
qualitv of the Boft.n Glass, as it is so well known
throughout the United State, to be m every ref
rea greatly superior to any ever imported from
* It will bt • cut to any file commonly used ; and
«iay be con ftantly had by applying to CbaMe, F.
Kupfer, at 'the Glaf House.
Orders fi.-omthe distant Statestobe addrefTed to
Mr. Samuel Gore, Court-llraet, Boston.
xw- o or thre» good Glafv makers are want
«d at the J 'ove works; such as can produce re
commend.* ion- for good behav.or, maybe sure of
«raploy, bt application to Mr. George L, Lum, at
the works. Men without families will be pre
ferred. However unacquainted with the method
of making Crown Window Glass, they will meet
with th. ft me encouragement.
Bod on, Un nary —»aw6w
I\l O T I c E.
W1 Vl iBEAS a Certificate to Hawmah Shil
t v of Oxted Cottage, in the County of
Surrey. inCre.t Britain, Splnfter or her afligns,
for two thousand five hundred do »-
l <rk twc , ty-three cents, in the deferred flock of
U» t a States, was loft m the ft.p Peggy,
C»t Hv r, bound from Philadelphia to London
• Th, » r 1706. The lubferiber, the said Han
n.h Shll'l intends to apply to the Treasury of
the Unitii States, «.r a renewal of the said Cer
, HANNAH SHELLY,
rtb.tj. I,Vk6w "
PHIL ADELP HI A: SATURDAY EVENING, MARCH 10, 1798.
Will be fold on Wednesday the
lift of March, at 7 o'clock in the evening, at
the Merchants' Coffee House, for calh,
AGREEABLY to the last will and teQament of |
William Hcylhani, deceif d, and poflcUion J
given immediately, a valuable property ill Arch- w
ilreet, between Third and Fourth ftrects, eonfitling j
of the House No. 107, wiih the Lot on which it t >
(lands, a Stable and other improvements. The cl
house is *0 feet front and contain# ten good apart- a
ments. The lot is of the Dime breadth a» the house, ,
and 109 feet deep, with a wIII of water, and a
very capacious walled cistern, both with pumps in
compleat repair. The Cable stands on the re r of
the lot, and will accommodate four horses and a y
carriage. This property enjoys a perpetual privi. t |
lege of a»6 feet coort and an alley 8 fset wide, ex- t ,
tending to Cherry flreet. Its central position, and j r
the advantages it pofieffes with refpeft to free yen
tilation, renders it well worthy the attention of
any perfou wishing to possess an eligible property
in Philadelphia.
Robert Hey/ham, or 1 Adting
Francis 80-wts Sayre, j Executors.
CONNELLY (Sf Co. AuS'rs. tl
N. B. The house will be open two days prcvi- 3
ous to the laic,for the iafpe&ion of thoie who wish c
tonurchafe. march 7 —§tu(l P
——■ 'l. t '
Frelh I eas. ••
e<
JuJl Imported, in the jhip Delaware, g
Captain Cooper, frem Canton, ti
And For Sale, ly b
SAMUEL HOWELL, *
At kis Compting House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,
AND BY ,
SAM. E. HOWELL, 1
At kis Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon, Young
Hyson, Hyfoa Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
also, P
China Ware, asserted; black and coloured Lute- *
firings and Sattins, Nankeens, Cassia, large garden a
and common Fans, fattin and luteflring Umbrellas, «
whale-bone flicks. 1
They have also For Sale, a
Ell wide Perflates, Bandanna Handkerchiefs, A
French Carabricks and Umbrellas, Sugar in boxes, f
march 8. _ S
11 be Let tnthe Shares, '
A valuable Farm ready stocked, f
WITHIN 3§ miles from Philadelphia, on the <
weft fide of Schuylkill, and near the turnpike. >
It is exposed th>- tenant will find suitable per- 1
sons to take care of a dairy and attend market,
with all other necessary labour.
ALIO, WANTEI,
A Gardener —a Single Man. ,
None need apply, in either cafe, unless they ean j
bring good recommendations. r
Enquire at No. 30 Market-street. c
march 5. S 2W \
' *Tq be Sold) i
An elegant Country Seat, '
Containing 6 acre# and 40 perches, with a neat
two story brick House and kitchen thereon, an ap- s
pie Orchard, See. iituate on the Irifk traft kne, in <
the township of Moyamenfing, about one mile from $
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will .
be made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for tafle and
elegance ftan l unrivalled.
N. B It tbe above place is not fold before the
10th inft. it will than be rented, for the Summer
season only. § march 5.
Notice is hereby given,
THAT application will be made for the renewal
of a Certificate of a Share In ,the Bank of the
Unit; d States, Handing the name of the Subscri
ber, No. 5004, and dated July 11,1797 —the fame
having been 1011.
JOHN GRAHAM.
march $
FOR SALE,
The House in Chefnut-ftreet,
NEXT door but on * to the corner of Fifth-ftreet,
occupied by the fubfcribcr. Its eligible situation
is well known—The rooms are spacious and con
venient, awd finilhtd' in ahandfome ftile—lt has
a double Kitchen, and excellent Cellars, with an
Ice House and rain water Cistern, and there is a
Pump of good water near the kitchen door.
For terms apply to
GARRETT COTTRINGER.
march 2.
" TO LET,
And may be entered on immediately,
A good dry Store,
Three (lories high, and in an excellent (land for
bifiaefs. Apply tn
Thomas U JoJhua Filler,
, march f. § No • ■ Ooc^-nreet.
• NOTICE
IS hereby given, that the Subfcriber,'an infel
vent debtor, confined i.n the c.mmon of
the County of Cape May sij the state of New-
Jersey, hath presented his petition to the Judges
of the Inferior Court of Common Pleas, in and
' for the said county, praying that they would
u attend to hear what can be allidged for or a
gainfl his liberation, purl'uant 14 an t£l of the
it Legislature of this State, entitled "an .afi for
n the relief of insolvent debtors," palled the a6th
day of January 1798 —And the the said court
n did appoint Monday the 26th day of March
next for the purpose aforefaid ; to meet at the
d Court House in the Middle PrecinifV, at eleven
f. o'clock, in the forenoon of the said day, .f which
his creditors ire request.d to take notice,
o CHARLtS ALLEN.
Cape May, Feb. 8, 1798.
:- Feb. 14—lawjipr
>f Custom House,
'* DifriS of Pennsylvania, Mmt 6it, 179^
r T"'HE MERCHANTS of
' X who may have any account or knowledge of'
ct the capture or of any Ihip or vcllel, lar
go, or other property, belonging to citizens of the
United Statts, residing within this di(lri&, by or
under the authority of foreign nation", since the
firft day.f Oilobrr, 1791, are particularly reques
ted to give in informatisn thereof, to th« Collec
-- tor of the Port of Philadelphia, as soon as may
of b« convenient; fpecifying the name of the vessel,
is, the captain's name, the number o tolfts, the efti
-- mated value of the vefTel, if condemntd, the efti
of mated value of her cargo, or other property, v.-hi
y, ther carried, and by, or tinder the authority of
>n what nation captured, with such okfervations as
f>- may be thought necessary upon the circumstances
of of each cafe, in order that Hatements thereof may
r " be tr nfmitted to the Secretaiy of the Treasury,
wh. is required to lay <he fame before the Senate
and House of Rcprcfentatives of the United States,
march 7. J lot
Hooping Cough, Catarrhs, Afihmas, Ls'r.
Walfh's Antipeituffis, j
IS a fife and certain cure for that dertruflive dif- s
order the Hooping Cough The celebtity
which this medicine has acquired in England, ren
ders the publication of cases' «f cure unneceflary J
tSere—but as tbe Antipertuffis has been but re
cently introduced into this country, it may not be
amiss to publilb the following cases, f letSed from
a much greater number, as proofs of its »ffic«cy.
" Summer-Hill, Stourbridge, Nov. xB, '9l.
" Sir,
" Pl-ale to fend by the coach, a large bottle of
your Antipertuffis. I have given it to the poor of
this neighborhood, by which rnahy have been cur
ed of that dreadful disorder the Chincoujjh, and '
in no instance has it failed in giving immediate re- f
lief.
" I am, Sir, your very obedient Servant, t
GEORGE BRISCeE." t
" Bath, Judc », 179?, c
" S:r > . . L
".Thecaufe of my troubling ybu with this is, 11
that I thought it a ditty which 1 owed to yourfell (
and to society, that I ffiould mention the fa'utary '
effects that your excellent medicine, ealled Anti- 1
pcrtufiis, had upon my elded son ; wtv> was, about c
two months ago, afHiaed with the Hooping Cough, '
in a noil datadful degree. My child was atteni- *
edbyfomcof the moll eminent of th# faculty here, f
who, for three days, thought him dying ; and was
given over. At this time a friend of mine men- <1
tionedthe wonderful cures that had been effeded 1
by your medicine ; and though we had no expec- '
tation that rey child could possibly recover, yet I
resolved to try it. I did ; and at this time, 1 have
the happiness to fay, that he is quite well, not the (
Last fymprom of his eomplaint remaining.
" Your's, &c.
" JOSIAH EI.LIS TOMKINS."
(London, to wit.) 0
James Eardley, of No. 4, Poland-street, in the r
parish of St. [ames, came before me this day, and
voluntarily maketh oath, and faith, that bis cliild,
a boy about two years old, was effc<flually cured
of tbe Hooping Coagh (which he was affiled 1
with in a most violent degree for some months,
and for which he could get no relief) by Mr.
Walfh's Antipertuffis. And this deponent further
ftith, that at the time the child firft took this me
dicine, it was net expefled he could live ; and that
the firft dose, almost immediately, removed some
of the most violent symptoms ; his appetite,
ftrcngth, and spirits mended every day ; and this
deponent further fatth, that thi ee or four bottles
made a perfect cure ; and that the child is now iu
as good a state of haalth as it was before.
JAMES EARDLEY.
Sworn before me, this lift day of March, 1795.
Thomas Skinner, Mayor. i
It is Sold, by appointment of Mr. W Al.an,
by SHAW to" Co. No. 129, Cheft.ut-ftreet, Fhi- 1
ladelphia, in bottles at 14 dollars each—Where only
may be had IValJh's Lozenges of Coltsfoot, for recent ;
cpugbs—Whiteheads Essence of Muflard, for rheuroa- ,
tifms, gout, lumbago, palsy, numbness, sprains, ,
and bruises, in boxes and bottles at I dollar each— |
Sovereign Ointment, an infallible cure for the Itch at ■
once using—Dr. Smith's celebrated Specific for the \
Venereal Disease, at J and % dollars the bottle— j
also, his Reparative for debilitated eonflitutions, at 3 1-2
dollars—Norton's Antifcubortic Drops—Ea If am of Ho
ney, for coughs, colds, &c —Church's Ceugh Drops—
and Gotland's Lotion, for the face and fkiu, &c. &c
march 8. thslt»tt
FOR SALE,
400 barrels BEEF.
Enquire of
George Pennoei, or
Gid. Hill Wells.
march 8. ''otf
'I o-morrow will be Landed,
From on board the brig Benjamin Franklin, capt.
Jones, from Bordeaux,
Claret of superior quality, viz.
MEDOC "> Of the vintages of 1790 and 1791,
LATOUR j in cases
ALSO,
WHITE WINE, of the vintage of 1790
FOR SAL F. BY
PHILIPS, CRAMOND & Co.
march j. _ §
NANKEENS.
Ten thousand pieces Nankens,
FOR SALE on a liberal credit, by
SAMUEL HAYS,
No. 12y, Chtfnnt Street,
mareh 7 eod6t
Prison Manufactory.
FOR SALE,
At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of all fiz»s, from to lody
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakers and Sadltrs Thread
Alfo—rSawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and head ltones, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms, slabs, facia, window heais, fills, c*.
5 All which may he had on reasonable terms,
1 Shoes marie and Weaving done at said Prison at
I a moderate price.
Orders from a dillance, dire&ed to Daniel Tho
r mas, agent for the pqifon, will be attended to.
r December 16. mth6m
| French Circulating Library.
; JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
j ' No. 110 Walnut-street,
1 TNFORMS thoft who wish to recur to the only
A means of becoming perfo& in the French Lan
guage,that he has just opened hw Library, con
fining ps upwards of 1500 volume*, the baft cal
culated to afford cither ufeful inftrudion, or plea
- sure. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of tbe Library, may be seen at every book-feller's
in town.
n. b. All transitions from and into the French,
♦ English and Spanish Languages, executed with ac
s curac> and toiwi *» nov. 14.
I FOR SALE, at
r Wm. Young's Book Store,
e No. Second flreet, thecorncr of Chefhut street.
1) EPORT of the Committee of the House of
IX. Representatives of tbe United States, appoint
y ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
1, against VMLLIWf BLOUN T, a Senator of the
1- United States, impeached of high crimes and mif
i- demeanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of
i- the House of Representatives, authorizing the said
if Committee to fit during the reccfs of Congress, and
« inflrU'Sing them "to enquire, and, by all lawful
rs " means, to difcovcr the whole nature and ext. Nt
y " of the offence whereof the laid William Blount
y, " (lands impeache.!, and who are the parties and
le " aflociatestbereiu "
s. Printed by order of the Utufe of Refirefentatii'ej
Decemicr je. }
LANDING,
AND FOR SALE, j
The Cargo of tbe Ihip Fair American, c <
Same* Burke, inafter, from Aux-Cayes, now ly- c<
ing at Bcil*» wharf, J'
C0N519 ! INC OF aJ
Molafles, Coffee, Sugar and Dye 0
Wood,
Apply so
ISAAC HARVEY, jun.
5, South Water-street.
3 mo. 6. *) t w j
The CornmillioiKTS
FOR carrying into »ffe<sl ths I'WENTY-FIRST
Article ofthe Treaty of Friendship, J.imits.and L
Navigation, between His Catholic Majesty and the
United Statuof Am.rica, hereby give information
to all Persons therein concerned— 1 hat in order
to terminate all differences, on account of tbeloff
es sustained by the citizens of the United States, io _
conlequence of their Vcffels rnd Cargoes having
been taken by the Subju&s of His Catholic Majof
ty, during the late war betVeen Spain and Franc;,
that they are ready to receive (at their Office, be
tween the hours of ten and one o'clock, daily) ail t
complaints and applications, authorized by the laid
Article, during eighties months, from the day
•f the date hereof, and that they have power to
examine all such persons as come bsfore them, on
oath or affirmation, touching the complaints in
question, and also to receive in evidence, all writ
"tcn testimony, authenticated in such manner as
they shall think propef to require or admit.
By OrJrr of tie Commijfioneri, n
PETER LOHRA, Secretary.
CommiJJtonert Office. No. 109, Mulberry
Jirat, May 17tb, X 797.
Feb. t6, '98 —slm
* Tbofe Printers in tbe Jeveral States ivbo fi.llijh- _
ci the above advertlfement lajl Sfrinf, are rejuejted to
re-publifb it one month, and fend their account stoi*■ 1■ ■ |
FOR SALE, er
William Priestman,
No.-15, South Fifth-flrect, next door to the War '
Office, '
A large afiortmcnt of SiWcr Watches (
Time Keeper, by Arnold t
Gold Watch, by Mudgde and Tlutton f
Ditto, Ellicott
Ditto, Holmes
Double barrelled Gun, Mortimer
Ditto, Parker j
Pair Piflols, Knubley
60 lb. Scotch Thread
Two groce Watch Dials, and
Some gold Watch Hands
0- Ready money given for any quantity of Sti
ver or other watches. march X —*6t
THE Subscriber informs those
to whom he is indebted, that a person will
attend every day, Sundays excepted, until the id
of April next, from the hours of 10 o'clock inthe
morning till 1 o'clock in the afternoon, at the house
formerly occupied by him in Chefnnt-ftreet, for
the purpole of fcewing all books, papers and let.
ters regarding his past commercial tranfaflions to
such ol bis creditors as may think proper to attend
and examine them.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
march r. eoti \
For Sale,
By Elliston Ssf John Perot,
No. 41, North Water Street,
London particular Madeira Wine, in pipes and
quart r casks, 4 years old and fit for immediate use.
Inferior do.
A few bales Allibad Coffes
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Sail Canvass, No. 1, to 9
A few bags of Juniper Berries
A parcel of Soal Leather, and
A few boxes of China.
march .1 tu&f4w
For Sale,
A good situation for a Country Seat,
FQR TY acres of land on the Old York Road,
wi hin fight of Germantown and about five mile«
from the City, the whole being under good fence,
and in excellent order as paflure ground.
For further information and terms, apply to"
Jonn Elliott Ckxsson, at his office for the
sale of Real Estates, Conveyancing, &c. No. 54,
High-lf reet.
id mo. a6th. nwiw
Thick iMedium Paper,
suitable for copper-plate printing
English aud American WRI TING PAPER
PARCHMENT and VELLUM
For Sale by
Joseph and James Crukjhani,
No. 17, High-ftreot.
march 3. *eo^t
TO LET,
And pofTeffien given the ill April next,
TheHoufeNo. 258 High-street,
At present occupied by P. Bvtleu, Esq.
, Apply to
Edward SJjoemaker,
No. 117, High flreet.
February 24 cod3w
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the loth
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers.Office, No. 64, South Second-street
Tickets inthe Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollars, where check books are kept lor register
s ing and examining in these, the City of Washing
- ton, No. 11.and Patmfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in moft'of the Lotte
ries authorifed by law in any of the States of the
- Union.
e N. B. The b*finefsof a Broke*, inhuyingand
s felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
1, Lands, Houles, &c. &c. will he duly attended to,
- by WM. BLACKBURN.
November 15. §
James C. & Samuel W. Fisher,
AT THEIR STORE,
No.Jlj, corner of Arch and Frsnt flreet.
f RAVK FOR SAM,
•- Cotton and worlted Hufiery in trunks,alTered"
t A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannel
e Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs
r - Ditto Pullicat silk ditto
if Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs ditto
d Ditto Gurrahs
d Bengal black Taffctics
•I 4000 pieces Nankeens, and
it Few chests best Hyson Tea
it Ayi—lsoo boxes best London Window Glass,
d from Bby 6,' to 19 by 14 —and 15 hhds. Glass
Ware assorted, which they willdifpofc of cheaper
•s than any in the city.
Nav 18 Atawtf
r T" I HK term of Co-parrnerlhip between the fuh-
X fcribers, trading under the firm of John Mil*
kr, jun. and Co. expires this day« and by mutual
consent wiH not be renewed* The deVts ard con
cerns of the fame will be fettled by John Mißer #
Jun. to whom all those indebted to the parrnerihip*
are earnettly requeued to make payment to, with
out daisy. •
JOHN MILLER, Jun.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
February 19 stf
LANDING,
From on board the Ship Sally, from
Calcutta,
AND FOR SAL K BY THE
1600 bags prime Sugar,
800 d«. Ginger
jo bales low priced piece Goods.
John Miller, Jun.
march 3 §
FOR SALE, by
John Miller, jun.
N®. 8, Chcfnut-ftreet,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
AMONCIT WHIOU ARE
Gurraha Mamcodict
Baftas Sannas ' -»
Cuzzenas Tanda Cofiaee
Guzzien Eraertic*
Blue Cloth 3 Caliches
Palamj.»oors Romall Handkerchiefs
Amongst them are a great proportion of the ma*
nufa&ures of Parna.
Britiih Dry Goods,
ALSO,
Forty puncheons of high proof Run.
February 19 $
A lex. J. Miller Iff James Davis,
Having entered into partueHbip under the firm ps
Alexander J. Miller iff Co.
INFORM their friends in town and country, that
thvy have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South Front S/reet, Philadelphia ; wher*
they now have, and intend keeeping a general af
f®jtment of India, German, Irijb, French and Sri.
tijb Mannfafturesfor sale, on advantageous termt
for calh or a short creait.
February 19 stf
Landing
Frem an board the Snow Maria, from Ctpen
ha £V»
A few Tyns Russia Clean Hemp
300 pieces Ravens Duck
250 pieces RufCa Sheeting
200 bolts Ruflia Duck, and
A quantity of Swedes Iron
For Sale by
JOSEPH ANTHONY Co.
Wbo bavt an Hand,
ift and id proof Bourdeaux firaady
4th proof Spanish ditto
New-England Rum
London Particular Mldeirl Wine ; n j» ipM
London Market 5 and lrUr CalW
Old Claret in Cases
»4 hhds. Coffee just arrived
Bp ft Bo Hon Beef in barrel*
Mackrell in do.
Halifax Salmon in do.
A small invoice of Rhode-Island Sheeft
Speriliaciti Oil
Tanners ditto
No. t, 2, j, Boston Sail Duck
Ruflia Cordage, and
An Invoice of Dutch HoHow Glass Wars,
March 1. dtw
FOR SALE,
bv the subscribers, No. 21, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander, from Bengal,
Conftjling of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Coflaei Punjum Cloths
Sanabs Guzzey do.
Humhutns Charconna Dare*
Blue Clr.th Tanjiba
Chintz and Calicoes Multnols
Mamoodys Checks
Maharpgonge* Patru Hkf*.
Ginghams Mitltnul da.
Guzzeuas Bandannoe*
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcoes Choppa Romals
Salgatchy* Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Perfans of various coL
Mock Pulicats
too tons SUGAR
se,ooo lb. PEPFER.
Willings if Franris.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to (ale at that
1 commodious store the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-flreets.
Alio —A few Bales of Madraft Hkfi. ef ele
gant pattern* and best colour*.
February 8. dtf
Landing this day,
From on boacd tb« schooner Two Friends, Dan
, >el Crawley, Matter,
; E£pt""j Jamaica RUM,
FOR SALE BY
* George Latimer Sff Son.
novemher q. f
ROSS iff SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, CufTas, ami
i a quantity of Bengal COTTON
» Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boas*
f Jamaica, }
>, St.Viocents, > R®M.
and Beirgal J
300caflcs RICE, md
A pjreel of (hip building RED C£BA!|.
' * 7 ' f
Three or four Single Gentlemen,
may be fccoramodated with
Genteel Boarding and Lodging,
On reafonahle terms, by applying at No. 31,
North-ftre«t, between Fifth and Sixth-ftrects.
February 23. eod.it
Jujl Pub lifted,
And t» be had of Messrs. DoWon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Baokfcllert in the
city .price one dollar, twintv-five boards,
£ New Views of the Origin of the
:r Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, M. o.
June
fltawff
[V6LVME XIII.TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
. MARCH i, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN narfuanee of the AS of Cetgrifs joffcd on the fixtK day ®f juljr one thousand seven hundred and
ninety (even, entitled " An Afl laying dutieaon v tumped Veiluai, Paicl mcnt and Piper",' and thr
Aft pafud on thr fifteenth day of Decvm'er, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-fcveo, entitled
" An Ad 10 p'i|tp<.ne for a limited time the commencement of the dutra imposed by the enti
tled "An A&laying Dutiea on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from and after the
firft day cf Jaly enfaing, thef veral Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied mud collec
ted throughout uk United :staut.
I.
For every skin or pieeeof Velhim ir Parchment, or (heet or piece of Paper, upon which (hill be
written or pr.nted any or either of the inflrumenta or writings following—to wit:
Dls Ctt. Mh
Any Certificate of Naturaliration, - - - " 5
Any Licence to praflice.or Certificate of the admiHion,enrolment erregiftryof
anv Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Proflor, in any Court of the
Unted States, ... - 10
Prr*vi<fed, that a Certificate in any one of the Caurti of the United States
for one of thefaid Officer, fhal! so far is relatea to the payment of the
duty afrre aid, be a fufficient admission in all the Courta of the United
Sutes, for each and every of thefaid < dices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United States
(except for lands granied lor military fcrvicea) - 4
Any exemplification or ceriified copy of any fuck'grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military services) ... »
Any harter-Party, Bott( mry, or Refpendentia Bond, • 1
Any Receipt or dif harge for or on accountaf anyLegacyleftby any Will or e
ther teftameetary inflrument, or for any share or part eftate di
videtl by force o any statute of diflributions, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceafed,the amount wheieoflhall be
above thr value of Fifty Dollars, and (hall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, .... . *5
When the amount thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollara and
(hall not exceed five hundred dollars, ... jo
And for every further ftim of Pive Hundred Dollara, the additional sum of 1
Any Policy of Insurance or instrument in nature thereof, on any (hip, vefTcl or
goods insured from one diflriA to another in the United States, Ij
From the United Statea to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which
Infuranee is made (hall not exceed five hundred dollars, - 59
When the sum insured (hall exceed five hundred dollara, - I
A*J Exemplification, of what nature soever, that (hall pafa the seal of any
Court, ■ ther than ftch as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furnifh for the use of the United States or some particular (late, - 50
Any Eon J, bill Tingle or penal, foreign or inland hill of exchange, promiflory
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or wi:h the United Statea t»r apy (late, or fur their
uferefpefllve'y, ....
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, • 10
If above on 4 hundred dollar* and not exceeding five hundred dollars, i J
V above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, .50
And if above one thousand dollars, ..... 75
Provided- that if any bbndsor notes (hall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or notes (hall be fubjeft to only two fifth parts of the duty <
aforefaid—vix. - - -
If above twenty dollara and not exceeding one hundred dollars, . I 4
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, I lo
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, ' 10
■lf above one thousand do'lars, .... 3®
Any Nrtes ifluedfcy thebanks now eflabliflied, or that may hereafter be eftab
lifted within the United States, other than the ilh'es of such of the said Banks
as (hall agree t' an annual composition, o f one per centum on the annual d
vidciid* made by such Banks, to their Stockholders refpedively, according to
jhe following scale. ..... ,
On all notca not exceediag fifty dollars, for each dollar, - ®
On all rotes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, 50
C n all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dul'ara, » - ... X
Or »ll notes ab«ve five hundred dollars, . 1
Any Pr»teO or other Notarial ail, .... 15
Any Letter bf Attorney, except for an invalid penfioa, or to obtain or fell War
ranis for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
prrinrmidii. ihv fate war, - 2J
Ary Cersifciterr Dehenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for less than
fiv* Vundred dollars, - - • I
For five hundred dollars in 1 not exceeding two thousand dollars, *
For more tl)an two thousand dollars, ... 3
Abv or bill of lading for g «d* or merehandixe to be exported,
If frrm in. diftriiS to another diftriil as the United States, not being in the
fame State, - .... 10
• If from the United States to any foreign port or place, • 15
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furnituri, goods or e(T-<fls, made in any
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and --chattels distrained for
rent or taxee, and poods taken in virtue of any legal prncefs by any officer,) 50
Any Certifica-e of a Share in any Inf-rance Company, of a (hare in the Bank as
the United Stats, or of any State or other Bank, - -
If above twenty <i liars and cot exceeding one hundred dollars, - to
If above one handred dollars, ... if
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten tents for one hundred dollara.
11.
The duti« aforefaid will be eolle&ed and received by the Snpcrvifors, tnfpeflors aud other Officers
of fnfpeflion, in the several Pi'triftf, Surveys and Divisions of th<- United States, and by such other
perfens as (hall from te time be specially appointed and employed by the Suparvifors of Diilridls for
that purpose.
111.
The Superviftrs of the several DiftriSs will, prior to the firft day of July enfaing, and at soon as
may be pradlicable. mark or (tamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with ;.ny < f the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of tbef»id duties ; Or
(lamped vellum, parchment and paper n.av at the option as the Citizens of the United States be ob
tained at the rates preftrib'd by law, by application to any Supervilor, InfpeAor, Officer of liifpeAien,
or other person appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of D'.flrids.
GIVE N vndtr my Hand, at Philadelphia
thl Jay and ytar ahnvtmenti-ntd.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March JO. Secretary as the Treasury.
City Commidioner's Office,
January tub, 1798.
FOR THE INFORMATION l»F THE CITIZtm.
r I ""HE f-illowing arrangement is made by the
-L said eommiflioners, for cleansing the
streets, Sec
Diflritf No I. —From the north fide of Vine
ftr«et,to the south fide of Mulberry street j t»
be ÜBder the fuperintendance of Nicholas Hirks
a From the south fide of Mulbrry street, t<
the south fide eif Ckefnut ftrreet, to he under the
fupcrintendance o' William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut flreet to
the north fii'e of Spruce street, to be under the
foperintendance of Joseph Claypoo'e.
4. From the solh fide of Spruce street, to the
south fide of Cedar Arte', to be under the fu
perinteodance of Hugh Roberta.
€T When pumps are out of order south of
Hi»h •street, please apply to Thomas Dixey, at the
corner i f Sruth and Fifth-Rreets, or Godfrey Geb
ler. >n Hutth, fear C'btfnut.ftrcet ; and north of
Higli-flrert, to Clixey and Deharen, in Saflafrat
ftr-rt b*twe<*n Sixth and Seventh-ftrefta.
FOR SALE,
By WHARTON & LEWIS,
No 115 .South Front Street.
A quantity of Tanner's Oil, •
» 4th proof Janniea Rom, 1 entitled to
Ift and id proof Brandy, J drawback.
Madeita Wine,
Juniper Berries, See. <ce.
Feb. 9 eodtf
Red Clover Seed ®f the best quality.
MjlfilJKA Wlh'B,
Old, and fit for immediate ofe, in pipei, half
pipes and Quarter calks.
Teneriffe "Wine,
And, Window Glaf~-all of whith will he fold
on »«ry reafonakle terms, by
John Craif,
No. n, Dock Street,
march? wScnf
St. Croix Sugars.
-.6 hegfheada bert ST. CKOIX StTGAR,
TOR SALE BY
JOHN NIXON U Co.
Feb. p. fm'wtf
Hyson and Young Hyson Tea.
A few che*»« of exc 1! Nt quality, for fair, cor
? r of Scesad aid Pine f reef*. Dae l<—nil
EdWAKIJ DvNANTy
No 149, South Front-Arete,
Has (till remaining of the Cargo ot the Johanna,
from Malaga,
66 kegs Sun Rai/ins
91 jars fine Bloom ditto
»i hhd" } su P erior Catalonia Wine
Mountain and Malaga Wine, in hogfhends and
quarter calks
And a few qr calk* fine old Colemenar Wine.
He bat alfe, a few packages of
Calcutta and Madrafs Goods,
Confifti, gof Humhums, 'Pickeries, PatnaChints,
Bandanna, Pullicar and Barhar Handkerchiefs,
Choppaßomals, Mack and coloured Persians, and
black Pepper.
(jp Pl anted—A Male and Female
SERVANT, of unexceptionable charaflers.
march (. *3teod
At a Meeting of the President
and Managers of the Deuawaie and Schu vlkill
Canal Com pa ny, Febru ry 17th, 1798,
Refalved, That ten dollars on each (hare of Stock
be railed for ; and that the Treasurer
give public notice thereof agreeable
to law.
Extractfrom the Minutes.
GVdRGE WORRAIX, Secretary.
AGREEABLE to a refutation ol the President
and Managers of the Delaware and SctvyUtiU Canal
Company, the Stockholders are hereby requ red to
make a payment of ten dollars on each of their
refpeSive (hares on or before the ift of pril next,
«o WM. GOVETT, Treasurer.
February »8, jawtA
A PRINT.
I 'HE Print, representing Ginkial Wajhikc
to* and his family, all whole length* in one
g'ouDr, will be ready for delivery by the tyh of
March "*>t.
An anfinifhed rmpreffinn it '• be seen at Mr M'El
wcet'» Wore No. 70South Fourth Street.
TKe wili elofe on the 10th of March
next. Sobfc'ibert may depend on having the'btft
Printtat eneghinca+ndan halj. To non-2ubfcribers,
the nrice will be two guinea*.
Febroary 19.
TO RENT,
A good three ftorv House,
TWO roemi on each Hot, with' a convenient
Kite en— in Front, near South-street.——Enquire
of th Pri liter. ruaach 3—jawjtw
, C O N G R E •$ S
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
STAMP ACT.
TUESDAY—MARCH 6.
The hotfc having resolved itfelf into a cjnrr.it'
tee of the mthvle on the bill supplementary to
the a3 for laying a duty on (lamped vellum,
parchment and paper, and the clause for al
lowing per cent, on pur chafe i offlamps
to the value oj dollar: being under con
fderation,
Mr. Harper proposed to fill the laftblank
with 20 dollars.
Mr. J. Wiilinns fuggeflcd th*- propriety
of making the sum ten 01 twelve dollars, in
stead of twenty.
Mr. Harper thought that any person
purchafiug stamps for the purpose of retail
ing tham, would not wish to do it to a lifs
amount than 20 dollars. It was the sum
the fecrctary of the treasury recommended.
Mr. Thatcher was in favor of ten dollars.
Mr. Blount would propose a motion,
which he fupppfed would fcpcrcede the pre
sent ; it was to strike out the firft fedtioa of
the bill, as he did not approve of the prin
ciple of it.
The question was put and negatived.
The iecfe of the committee was then
taken on filling the blank with 20 dollars,
and negatived, there being only 22 votes for
it.
Fifteen and ten were then proposed.
Mr. Blount (aid, to allow this discount
was to lower the duty, and he could not
fee why those who purchased a small quan
tity, ought not to have the fame allowance
with those who purchased a larger.
The question on fifteen was negatived ;
and it was then taken on ten, and carried,
there being 56 vote 3 in its favor.
Mr. Harper moved to fill the blank fix
ing the amount of the discount with
Mr. Bleupt thought 2$ would be fuffi
-1 cient.
Mr. Otis was in fatfor of i\.
Mr. Matthews proposed ten per cent.
Mr. Bayard was of opinion that ten ought
to be fixed upon at firft, in order to induce
persons to purchafr, and by that means get
the stamps well diilributed. The discount
might afterwards be lowered. He believed,
that in England ro per cent, was originally
allowed ; it had since been reduced to five.
Mr. J. Williams was opposed to teu
Me supposed merchants, and others using
any considerable quantity of stamps, would
always take advantage of this discount. He
thought 1\ would be fufficient.
Mr. Blount said it had been ®bferved that
a large discount would facilitate the distri
bution of stamps. To do this, he suppos
ed was the duty of the secretary of the trea
sury and the supervisors. He wished tokoow
whether there was any thing in this bill, 01
the law, to prevent stamps from being fold
at a higher rate than the law diredted ?
Mr. Harper replied, that by the law,
the secretary of the treasury was diredted
to cause the stamps to be diftiibuted and
fold all over the country, at the price fixed
by law, and no more, without any charge
for paper. And persons being appointed
all over the country to fell them at this price
(for the trouble of doing which they were
to have an allowance not exceeding five per
cent.) a competition would be produced be
twixt them and persons who bought them
on their own account, which would be a se
curity against a higher price being deman
ded, than the real price of the stamp. Mr.
H. thought 10 per nent. too much, and
that i\ would be e proper allowance.
The question for filling the blank with
ten was negatived, there being only 19
votes in favor of it.
Seven and one half and five were then
mentioned.
Mr. Gordon thought that 5 per cent,
would be fufficient, which, with other ex
pences attending the business, would pio
ducc a drdudtion of at least ten per cent,
from the amount of the duty.
Mr. A. Foster said it ought to be recol
ledted, that by allowing this discount,
more money would be brought into the trea
sury, than the bare amount of stamps real
ly used would amount to, as not only those
made use of but those on hand, would be
paid for.
Mr. Lyon would be willing to allow 10
per cent, if he was afTuted that stamps
would not be fold at a higher rate than
at which they are damped : but he thought
there was no security against this.
Mr. Macon differed in opinion from gen
tlemen who thought this per centage would
eperate an injury to persons who used but
few stamps, and consequently could not a
vail themselves of the discount : he believed
they would be mod benefited by it, as shop
keepers would be induced to keep them for
the fake of the profit ; for if they could
only be had of supervisors and colledtors,
persons in the country would upon an aver
age, have to ride twenty miles for a stamp,
whenever they hadoccafion to use one..
Mr. Sewall said it ought to be considered
that persons purchasing a quantity of stamps
took upon themselves the rifle of paying for
what they might not use or dispose of. Be
sides, lofTes might be sustained by perfonr
entrusted to fell stamps by commission, but
none could be had from purchalers, as cash
was to be paid at all times for them.
Mr. S. Smith said, that he was in favor
of repealing the law altogether j but as
this could not be done, he wished to make
it as palatable as he could. Nothing would
renderjit more odious, than to render it diffi
cult for the people to obtain the stamps.
He hoped, therefore, a fufficient profit
would be allowed to induce floTe-keepers in
general to keep them.
The motion for filling the blank with 7 j
was carried without a division.
The clause for repealing that part of the
law whieh laid a,flamp duty on debenture*,
) which was found would operate very Hue
quail)') and enacting in its (lead that
per cent, should be retained in addition *a
the one per cent, now retained on draw
backs.
Mr. Harper moved to fill the blank with
three-fifths which would produce a sum e
qual to that proposed to be raised by the
(lamp duty. ■
Mr. S. Smith hoped the bjank would be
filled with one quarter, which, upon the
debentures of last ye.ir, would produce the
sum of io,o:c dollars. This, he said,
would be a direct tax upon the merchants,
which they could not get repaid from their
cuflomers. He had also doubts as to the
principle. Btfides, it might be forgot, a
few years hence, that this wasacomprom
ife for a stamp duty, and theft iulhuraents
might hereafter be taxed.
Mr. Harper had no ohjcdti.iii to one
quarter. The committee thought it a high
duty ; but they believed it right to fay
what would be equal to the (lamp tax pro
posed.
Mr- J. Williams renewed the motion for
two-fifths. The amount of drawbacks al
lowed, he said, amounted to more than one
third of all the revenue. He had an in
tention of bringing this fubjedt of draw
backs b»fore the house on some other occa
sion, in order to have some alterations in
tioduced into it. He thought two-fifths
ought to be agreed to. '
Mr. Sewall said, he had also his doubts
as to the propriety of taxing debentures, as
it was well known they were given to secure
the drawback upon goods re-exported. The
export business, said he, is of great import
ance, and as to the present drawbacks a■
mounting to one third of the revenue, this
was of no consequence, since the duty on
goods imported are intended to be piid by
the consumer, and not by the merchant.—
At present one per cent of the duty is re
tained, which more than ppys all the ex
pences attending the collection jf the im
port duty. Two fifths per cent, would be
more than the proportion which had been
observed in taxing of notes. He hoped one
quarter per cent, would be agreed to.
Mr. J. Williams said, that though the
one per cent, retained on drawbacks paid
the expence of cwlledting the duties, as far
as the centage on the ad valorem amount, it
did not pay also for weighing, measuring
and gauging. He had made some calcula
tions on this fubjedt, but he had not them
now before him. He thought; this draw
back a great advantage given to merchants,
and he was not for lowering the proposed
duty.
Mr. Lyon 1 observed, that he had oppo
sed the Stamp tax here, but he had endea
voured to make the bell of it to his confti
luents, who disliked it exceedingly, by tel
ling them that it would fall heaviell on the
merchants ; but if this article was to be
lowered, this apology would be done away.
Mr. Coit was in favour of the quarter
per cent.
Mr. J. Williams moved that the commit
tee might rife ; but after some obiervations
he withdrew his motion.
Mr. S. Smith said, the gentleman frem
New-York seemed to be much concerned as
to the drawback allowed on goods* re-ex
ported The two last years left to the reve
nue at one pet cent, an average of 40,000
dollars per annum. One quarter per cent
additional would produce 10, coo dollars
more. The whole estimate of duty to be
produced by stamps dollars ;
so that upon onefingle articlealoneone tenth
part of the amount was to be raised ; yet
gentlemen wished to increase this sum by
6000 dollars, tho' out of eighteen articles
upon which a (lamp-duty was imposed, thir
teen of them fell exclusively upon the mer
chants. The gentleman frem New-York
needed not to be afraid of the lauded inter
est, there was scarcely auy thing in the adt
which could affedt them. But that gentle
man was opposed to the bill, and he wifhad
to make it as odious as puflible. Mr S. said
his policy was different ; since it must pass
he wished it to be an unexceptionable as pi f.
fible, as he had now no idea that the stamp.
law would ever be repealed.
Mr. Blount said, the committee of ways
and means had no intention of lowering the
duty; and they only wished to equalise it.
It was calculated to produce upwards of
13,000 dollars, as the law now (lands, and
the present proportion of an additional de
duction of two fifths would produceupwards
of 12,000. He hoped, therefore, two
fifths would be agreed to.
1 The question on two-fifths was pnt and
negatived, there being only 12 votes for it.
One quarter was then carried, without a
division.
Mr. S. Smith then moved to add an addi
tional fedtion to the bill to this effedt :
" Tliat no note, other than Bank
Notes, made payable at or within 60 days
from the date thereof, shall be liable to any
stamp or duty; and no bill of lading liable
topaymore than cents,any thing in the
said adt to the contrary notwithstanding."
Mr. Sewall said, that the part of the law
which this clause went to repeal, imposed a
duty upon a set of men who could not re
imburse it. The duties laid upon merchants
were generally considered as refunded to
them by the public ; but in this cafe, no
such reimbursement could take place. Our
merchants had been greatly injured, it is well
known, by the spoliations committed upon
cur comnacice, by the French, and many
of them are consequently uiider considerable
embarrafTments, and being under the neces
sity of continuing their contrails,from time
to time, would be obliged to pay a high
duty kpon renewing their notes. This
would add to the hardlhips they already buf
fer. As to the bills of lading, he always
thought the duty exceflive, and hoped the
amendment woi.ld be agreed to.
Mr. Champlin said, that the American
merchants were the holders of a very con
siderable part cf the capital flock of all the
Banks in the United States. And es the
stamp-ait new flood, merchants who *r;te
holders of tUf defcriptijn of Stock and
had auy rejociations with the Banks, would
be taxed ia a three fold degree* They
would pay a (lamp-duty frji, upon the etc.
tificate of their stock ; secondly, upon tRM
notes itTued by the banks ; and thirdly,
pon their private rotes made payable, at
within 60 days, to ai;d discounted by the
Banks. And as the amendment propofrd
went to remedy, in some degree, this evil,
and to rentier the aft inqueClion less unequal
and oppteffive in its operation, he was deci
dedly in favor or it.
Mr. S: Smith believed it would be pro
per to divide the question.
It was aceordingly divided, and the form
er part was under consideration when
Mr. Harper said, the gentleman from R.
Island seemed sb confound a bank as an in
flitution with the individuals who .compose
that iuftrtution. Individuals may doubtlef#
pay taxes in three or thirty different ways,
but he could not fee the force of this obser
vation. With refpeft to the motion itfelf,
lie believed it ought not to be adopted.—
He could not fee why notes at 6c day*
should not pay a duty, though he did fee
why they ought not topay so high a dutyas
others, which was the reafou why the dif
tinflinn hndbeen made in their favour. The
merchants, he said, were the mere payers ef
this duty, as they would charge it upon
their merchandise, in the fame way as they
charged other duties and expences. He saw
no reason why the alteration should be made
with refpeft to bills of lading.
Mr. S. Smith observed that it was tery
difficult to convince theoretical gentlemen of
their errors. Practical men will tall you
that it is nnpoffible to charge these dnties
to their customers. There was a duty char
ged on inftrumeuts which admitted 1.-iwyer»
to praftice, he wished t© know how they
could be charged to their clients. Wheu
this fubjeft was originally before the com
mittee of ways and means, after well con
sidering the fubjeft, 60 days notes were
excluded; but when the bill came into a
committee of the whole, gentlemen, defir.
ous of defeating the bill, introduced such
tilings into it as might have a tendency to
; damn it, arid this was the reason why 60
days notes were introduced. These notes
he said, did not come under the design of
other bonds and notes. They were now
become the passing medium of this country.
To tax them was the fame as -to tax everv
dollar that Went through his hands, as all
purchases and falcs were made by notes of
this description. Mr. S. said he was awate
of the difficulty of impressing a body like
this, in which there is so little commercial
interest, with the impropi-iety and hardfliip
of a meafare of this kind. And as "infigni
ficant as some gentlemen might think this
duty, he could inform the committee that
one merchant in Baltimore had gone into a
calculation of what the stamp duty would
(land {iim in, anchhe supposed it would be
at least 800 dollars; and a house in Philadel
phia had informed him that their (lamp du
ties would amount to 1200 dollars, of
which they never would be able to get a
cent from their customers.
Mr.Harper could not help congratulating
the house upon this information. He hop
ed there would be many persons of the de
scription which the gentleman frorl Mary,
land had mentioned. If so, this tar would
prove an extensive fouree of revenue,
refpeft to the lawyers, he believed they
might be fafely trusted to get back Whatever
they paid.
After Mr. Champlin had said a few words
in reply to Mr. Harper, the question was
taken on each part of the feftion separately
and nigatived.
Mr. J. Williams then moved an addition
al feftion, to exclude from duty all bonds,
bills and notes, under 50 dollars, whieh
was negatived without debate.
The committee rose andche house concur
red in the amendments.
FRIDAY MARCH 9.
A meflage was received from the Senate
informing the house, that they hail receded
from their amendment to the bill providing
relief for the widows and orphans of certain
deceased officers. It will be recollefted that
this was a propofitioe to strike out militia
cjfic rt—which being receded from, relief
will now be granted to the widows and or
phans of militia officers.
The following bills were read the third
time and pafled, via.
The bill declaring the alTcnt of Congress
to an aft of the commonwealth of Mailachn
fetts;
The bill limiting the time within which
claims against the United States for credits
on the books of the Treasury, (hall fce pre
sented for allowance; which was (L-xed for
the firft of March, 1799, and
The bill for the relief of Sylvatvus Cro
well.
Mr. D. Foster made an unfavorable re
port on the petitions of J. Brown, J. Zim
merman, and two others, who seek for con#-
penlatioa for fupplics, services, ac>d lo(Tes f
lurnifhed and fuftaincd in the war, which
was concurred in.
Mr. Gillefpic proposed a refol|ition for
inftru&ing the committee of comnjerce and
manufactures to enquire into the exj icdiency
of passing a law declaring the assent of Con
gress to the appointment of a health officer
at Wilmington in N»rth Carolina, and to
report by bill or othcrvvife, which was a
greed to.
Mr. Livingfton moved an addition al mem
ber might be added to the committee, to
whom was referred the bill for the re li»f of
Cck and disabled fearnen,as Mr. Swan 57 ickV
health prevented his attendance upon rj* rbu
finefs. Agreed, and Mr. S. Smith was
appointed.
Another meflage was received frrv n the
Seaate, informing the house that tk sy in»
fitted upon their amendments, whil h had
been disagreed to by this house, to the bill
for relief of the refugees from Can; da and
Nova Scotia.On motion of Mr. Harper, the house re- I th
solved itfelf into a committee of the whole j t"
on the report of the committee of claims on (
t petition of Henry Hi'l* and tfie several jg<
>rts thereon ; when the following rcfolu- 1 di
came under consideration; 1 th
1 Refolvcd, That the accounting officers of ru
tie treasury cause the sum of 9,768. 81-90 b]
dollars, charged to the contrail account of John
Banks, on the 3 1ft day of December 1783, to cc
be credited to the said John Banks; and that ,Cl
the fur so credited, te charged to the accounts pi
of such other person as in their opinion shall be ! bi
jujtly chargeable therewith, and that they charge | ra
the faidcontraS account •with all such sums as re
have been paid by the United Stales, toindem- ly
tiify the cjlatf of General Greene for debts by fc
him paid or feeurcd to be paid of the said John m
Banks, or of John Banks and company."
The question 'was divided, and the fenle
of the committee was taken upon the fh-ft
part, ending with the words " chargeable
therewith," and carried with out a division.
After a long debate on the fubjeft, in C
which the claim of Hemy Hill, was advo- „
cated by Meffi s. Harper and Otis; andop
pofed by MefTrs. Coit, Dana, Nicholas,
Venable, J. Williams and Spragtie, the lat
ter part of the resolution was agreed to,
there being 64 members in favor of it.
Adjourned till Monday.
fortifications. C
The frillou itijr letter fl-nm the Secretary of XVn P
•to the chairman of (he Comvnittee on the P
Proie£>ion ot Com/ne'ce ind the Dtfci.ce of t<
the Country, was yeflerday annrxetl to the re e
port mads in the Hotife of Representatives y
by Mr. SewaH, and which «as given in our j (
paper. t
War-Oflice, J7th February, ijQg. .
SIH, 1
The Committre, to "hom was referred "so I
much of the Present's fpeeth, as relates to the
proteflton of c mm rce, and the defence of ths ]
rovntrv," dtfire to know the amount of them"- ,
nies expended finee the la ft .vfTi»n of C- ngnf , (
on the marijme fortification, and whether, in ,
the opinion i>f the Secrttary of Was auy further
3ppn i priati n n is required for the lameobjee\,— 1
The following information and remarks are
therefore tefprilftilly submitted. '
That there remaiued unexpended of } ]
preceditijr approprlalioii* for mari- ,
tin\e fortifications on the 6th !une, (
Dollars ti,©6s*s^
Appi opriations of June azd, 1797, 115,100.
Dollars 137,065.58 1
That of this sum there has been expended,viz. ,
At Mujl-Mand, 43,640 S?
Baltimore, 188.93
Chartefton. 9-97 8 !
Portfmonth( N.H.) (bal. ofacct.) 488 46
Newbern, (on account of balance) 800.
Norfolk, (balance of account) 166 ;^
St. Mary's,(Georgia) ditto 4,011.89
39,381 65
Balance unexpended Feb 47, 1797, 9 , >68 .9
Dollars 137,065.58
The committee will perceive, that the
principal fwm expended since the last ftffion
of Congress, has been upon Fort-Mifflin, in
the state of Pcnnfylvania. This fortrefs,
from several confederations, fecmed intitled
to particular attention. The ground on
■which it (lands, and necefTary to it, has
been ceded to the United States. The
works, as far as they have been ere&ed,
were composed of good materials, and put
together in such a manner, as to promise
long duration and utility. An experiment j
bad 1 kewife shewn where the workj were
dolt vulnerable, and that the fortrefs may
be rendered competent, with certain auxila
ry works, to afford an efTential prottftion
te an important commercial city, against the
operation* of a powerful naval armament-
It has, therefore, been deemed proper, un
der thetruft committed te me by the Presi
dent, to contemplate completing this fort
refs as expeditioufly as possible.
The Secretary has suggested, on a form- '
er reference, that to derive real advantage
from any considerable expenditure of money
for completing the seaboard fortrefles, the
military ettablifhmrnt should be such, as to
admit of their being occupied by garrisons
equal to keeping them in a tenable situation
and to the preservation of their flores and
artillery. It is certain, that this cannot be
done by militia, unless when called into ac
ual service, and that no part of the regular
force employed on the Western frontiers,
can be tranferrcd from thence for such pur
poses, without endangering the peace of the
union, and openiug the way, in that quar
ter to the immediate execution of projeds
and enterprises, contrary to law and treaties
and fubverfivc of all order and government.
It is but too evident, also, that the course
®f things and circumstances, peculiar to the
frontiers (huts out any well-founded expect
ation, that we have approached near to the
time when the military force may be fsfely
diminished or withdrawn.
Independent therefore ef considerations,
resulting from our present situation, with
refpett to foreign nations, it would appear
necefTary and proper, that the seaboard for
tifications should be generally improved, and
this defence of onr country rendered ref
peilable, and also that the army should be
proportiouably augmented. A regard to
ultimate economy will require, that such of
the fortifications as may be always import
ant to the general defence, (hould be con-
AniAed, like Fort-Mifflin, of the mod du
rable materials.
It may be proper tomention, that befide3
the want of men to garrison these forts,
there is aoather difficulty which it is desi
rable should be removed. But few of the
states have made cessions of land, on which
forts have been or ongbt to be creifled for
the proteftion of their harbours ; a circum
ftar.ee calculated to impede such underta
-1 kings, and embarrass the intentions of gov
-1 crnment to provide fortheirdefence. Neither
is it known to the Secretary that any of the
satcs which were found indebted to the U
tn'ted States on a settlement of the accounts
between them and the refpeftive dates, have
thought of availing themselves of the third
io* of the " aft t« provide for the fur
thn defence of the ports and haYbonrs of
ilit United States," p«3ed the 23d of June, fu
1797. ... ' M
The committee will perceive, that many in
good causes have preventeda greater expen- n>
diture of the appropriations, and that while
these continue to exist, they mult inter- j
rupt the completion of our maritime defence
by fortifications. E
With refpeft to the la ft enquiry of the C
committee a full consideration of all the cir- w
cumftances, induces the Secretary :o an o- cc
pinion, that a further appropriation (hould th
be made, to be in readiness, and commenfu- t
rate to meet such a state of things, as may
require our parts and harbors to be prompt
ly and completely fortified, whether proper ' 1:
fcites be ceded or not by the Hates more im- ar
mediately concerned. , i t,:
With great refpeft,
I am, Sir,
Your mod obedient servant,
JAMES M'HENRY. -J
SaMUIL SeWALL, Escii 1 ti,
Chairman of the Committee, CSV. j at
wnwm 1 win r ->vlIIJH wmtmwtm jj
By this day's Mail.
BOSTON, March 3.
Lute from England.
Last evening arrived here the (hip Polly, ' '
captain Chipman, from Liyerpool; after a ,
passage of 44 days. The htefi London pa
pers we have been able to procure, are down .
to January Bth ; but they furnifh nothing
extraordinary. The debates in the Britilh
parliament, on the affefTed taxes, are very
lengthy and spirited; but-the bill which con- J
templates a triplication of the customary as- J
fefied taxes, pafled by a majority of 125
Ayts 196. Noes -ji.
The information of the late decree of the
French government refpefting English man- '
ufaftures, had been received ; and had ex
cited much agitation. The result was to
be expected—Convoys are to be granted to
neutral vefiels.
The Pacific Congress at Raftadt, has de- :
termined that'the king of England (hall re
linqui(h all his possessions in Germany, and
with his electorate (Hanover) all his influ- j
ence in the German Empire.
An augmentation of the British army has
been made ; and the navy daily increases in
number and strength. The (hips of war in
commifiioß, oh the ift January, 1798, a
mounted to 130 fail of-the line, 18 fifty
gun (hips, 165 frigates, and 266 (loops of
war—Total in and out of commifiinn, 746.
LONDON, JAN. I.
In our paper of the 25th ult. we menti
oned a plan for the invasion of this country
by the French, of which citizen Monge is
said to be the projeftor. Of this plan we
gave the following as the outline.
" Thirty rafts are to be built; they are
t® be composed of efiormous quantities of
timber, connefted in the strongest manner :
they are to be provided with parapets of tim
ber and hides, cannon proof, with artillery
1 and furnaces to heat the red hot balls; they
are to be navigated with fails, oars and rud
ders ; each is to bring over 10,000 men,
making in the whole 300,000, with a due
proportion of horses and field artillery; they
are to proceed from different ports of France
and to attempt a landing in different parts of
this iflsnd. Their red-hot balls are to fcrve
to rept.l th* attack of a fleet of battle (hips
' while their own immerfioa will render them
- incombultible, Their small draft of water
1 will enable them to approach the flatteft
: c<saft ; their enormous bulk, covering a
- great number of waves, will prevent their
- being much agitated by the motion of the
- sea ; and by means of draw-bridges affixed
- to them, each raft will disgorge its myriad
upon the English (hore!"
By a letter from Yarmouth, which we re
: ceived this morning, and which we now lay
f before our readers, it (hould seem that the
e ; French government is about to put in exe
s cution Monge'B plan:—
s
n Yarmouth, Dec■ 31.
1 "An English sailor left Brest. on Chrift
e mas-day, in a Danifli veflel that landed him
- at Orfordnefsycfterday. He reports that
r a(loni(hing preparations are going on at that
> port. Sixteen fail of men of war are vift
ualing with extraordinary dispatch. Three
e or four hundred gunboats are fitted out ;
"- and an immense multitude of hands are now
s employed upon the cor.ftruftion of one of
s those immense rafts projefted" by citizen
:• Monge. It is to be 700 yards by 350, and
e to be worked by machines, windmills, horfe
e mills., &c. a grand citadel to be built in the
:- centre.—Already was the ground floor laid
e of the thickness of 6or 7'balks; even the
y English prisoners are at work. He had
himfelf been employed sor 6 weeks. No
1, secrecy is nfed ; any one may infpeft their
h works. He defcribts the refutation and a
ir lacrity of the French soldiers to be at the
r- highest enthufiafin ; but time will not per
d mit me to enlarge on this man's story ; ac
s- cording to my reporter, he is worthy of
e credit, as an eye witness of these great de
o signs."
>f _
t- Ptrtfmouth, December 4.
1- It appears by the Paris papers, that the
1- Ministers sent by the Frefident of the Uni
ted States of America, to endeavour to
rs prefefe peace with France, meet with a re
s, ception not much more cordial than that
i- which Lord Malmefbury experienced in his
ie two miflions for a purpose of the fame kind
h _
>r Falmouth, December 29.
1- Yesterday a gentleman, said to be a cap
b- tain belonging to Sir Edward Pellew's fqua
v- dron, landed in Mount's Bay, and set off
rr express for London. While he took frefh
ie horses at Truro, he allured a gentleman of
J- j this town, that a French squadron was at
ts I sea and with them n large immbcr of tranf
uc ports, having fifty thoufind men oil board—
rd j dellined, 20,0c0 againrt Scily islands, and
r- 1 3«,0c0 to be landed in the North of Ire
of I land; that Sir Edward's fquadroa was not
fufScient to er.gsfre them, anJ tie was sent j
express to goverri;r>e r . f fer.an imroedia e re- 1
inforcement. We we in hopes that this bad
n»w« may not prove authentic. Fi
NEW-YORK, Mjith $. P 1
It is rumoured, that the .Invasion ofr tic
England is all knocked in the head! — , vt:
Capt. White, of the J)iailS, " fays they or
will not attempt it." Their troops have dif- to
covered the very C.reat chance of l ht.g , 0 r
their lives! !- -and, ■ they SHRUG L
their shoulder; ! ! ! fp
to
The Executive government of r ranee, w
have releafeJ Sir Sidnty Smith, on h-s parole y j
and he is at large ih Paris. We understand n ,
that an offer has been mads to exchange Sir £
Sidney. TV
A report U received that the British commander
in the Well-Indies wa- ah«ut to declare the French
1 'islands in a state of blockade. A tetter from a Bri- |
j tifh officer in St Domingo, is silent or) ihe fubjeit; le
\ and we discredit the report. I
trrnnrn-f —~ " I
Xfte ?
- i ■ i■ ■■ tl
PHILADELPHIA, J
SATURDAY EVENING, March 8- 1
£
BT AUTHORITY c
Naval Appointments. r
For the Frigate United States ■ '
David Rofs, of Pennsylvania, First Lieut. a
John Mullowney, ot Pennfyl. Second do. 1
James Barron, of Virginia, Third do. c
Charles Stewart, of Pennfyl. Fourth do. 2
William Macßea, of Virginia, First Lieu- '
tenant efMarin?3. 1
. George Oillafpip, of New-York, Surgeon. '
. John Builus, of Pennlyl. ift Sugeons Mate. '
> For the Frigate ConJHtution.
> Benjamin Lee,of MaSTaehuietts, First Lieut.
Richard C. Beale, of do. Thiid do. J
- i Isaac Hull, of do. Fourth do. (
- ! Lemuel Clark, of do. Lieut.ofMarines. I
I William Read, of do. Surgeon.
- Charles Blake, of do. Ift Surgeon's Mate, j
For the Frigate Conjiellntiou.
John Rogers of Maryland, Second Lieut.
William Cooper of Virgin,jja, Third Lieut. '
II Philip Edwards of Maryland Lieut, of Ma
rines. j
j George Balfour of Virginia, Surgeon.
Isaac Henry of Pennsylvania, Surgeon's
Mate.
To arm, or not to arm, that is the quejl'ton.
Whether we shall take our station as an
y independent peOple under a free government
' of our own choice—call in.to aftion those
refonrces which our situation furmfhes, pro
vide a naval force, authon'fe our merchants
j- to arm so* the defence and prote&ion of
their property, difeipline our militia, and
fortify our mod vulnerable points, andthus
inspire confidence in our farmers, mechan
try, energy and enterprise, and continue
that circulation of fpetie, property and
' credit, which is the life of the nation, fire
the spirits of our citizens with an universal
J emulation and military ardor to acquire
those martial accomplifcments so rieceflary
for national defence, and thus be prepared
for the worst —Or, whether by laying an
embargo, we (hall benumb with a general
torpor, and paraltze the fpifit of the coun
try, unnerve every spring of industry and
exertion, damp the military genius of our
citizens, depreciate the people in their own
eyes, render them the scorn of their ene
j mies, andthus prepare'the way for their
fuhjugatton,when the crisis shall arrive, and
the evil day of open warfare can no longer
e be procrastinated. This is the question,
conerefs must determine.
.y °
" Th' Omrifcient calls! attend the warning cry,
e * "YE LIVE UNITED,.OR, DIVIDED DIE."
The fallowing extraft appiies moll perti
nently to the prcfent Sate of politics.
Friends and Enemies to their Country.
m Ar «xtraA from an old English author,
at " Those are enemies to their country,
at who, whether they are u~permoft or not,
i- prefer the iritereft of Great Britain before i
ee the interest of any other nation ; who are
; for strengthening our fleet, improving our
,w trade, securing our constitution, and care
of fully provide both for the prerogative of the
»n ciown, and for the liberty of the fubjeft.
id But those are the bed friends to their ceun
"e- try, who love a Dutchman, a Palatine, 1 or
he even a Frenchman, better than a Briton ;
id who, if they cannot rule us, will endeavor
lie to ruin us; disparage the success of our
ad arms, labor to fink the public credit, and
Jo fairlyjfgire us over to the French 1"
:ir
a It it a fafl well remembered, thit during the
late war, it|fo happened that in the excursions of
the British army many persons who called them
fclves tories, and hoafted or their attachment to
c _ the royal cause, were taken prilbners and plun
of dered by them—and whan they reminded the
le- British of their principles, they frequently fared
the worse, ar.d were damned for traitors to
their »\rn country. It has been said, that some
or our fans cukttes sea captains, who boified
of their attachment to a foreign country in pre
ferenit totheir own, have paid dearly fur their
B1 * confidence in French fraternity,
to
re- The Chronicle of yeflerday, foeakinp of the
iat P ro je<Sed deli cut on England", lays, " Th; while
bis i Crenel nation ferms intoxicatfd with this
j projefl." Whether that "pn«erfiil republic will
' ' take any measure to resent this reflexion
on their rfafon judgment, time only can de
termine. It i» a piiy, however, that such at
Lp. teßiprs fhsiild be ma eto exasperate a nation
ia- whife friendfhip has.been the nbjeifl of an extra
o jj mifiion from the United Stales ( Suiem Gatz )
f" 1 The Jacobins in their proper vehicle the Au
of rora, have thnattned ihe Uuiied States with the
at i vengeance #>f France, becanfe it wa« hinted that
I an individu. I Frenchman mud have bren drunk
__ Jon a certain occasion. In the above extrifl ihe
nd ' v e F'er.cb ruitioH.it char ge I with the v et.
: But these liberty ini enuality fi-ribblers iuppofr
rc " | * nitir.n may be fligmatiz-d w>h impur.ity
tot bo; >o with <-i.e i f the exclufits.
British and. French Factions.
So much has been said of a British and SI
French faftinn in this country, that a (Irang
er might be be led to believe, that the peo-. B
pie of America were but puppets, set in mo
tion by wire-holders, on the other fide of the SI
water. But how tn'ich foevcr the
ons we arc in the habit of making, may tend B
to juftify this degrading conclusion, lam R
one, who can by no means, fubferibe to it. 2;
Let statesmen though, and diplomatic men, fe
speak for themfclves. I mean not however S;
to quarrel with the tetms, since they very C
well serve to designate the parties which di- tl)
vide us; and since it has become our desti
ny, to draw writh one or other of the great
European powers, let them be known by m
the namesof thi British and French faftions. fc
Ia this view then, I am heretical enough,
to profefs myfelf to belong to the former, w
Not bccaufe lam a trader, whose interest m
leads me tfl this fide. Not because di
I have been secured by British gold.
I am an ohfeure individual, by much o
too infignificant, to be the objeft c/f a bribe
(if bribes were goin*) and too remote from d
the concerns of trade, to be in the smallest
degree a(Feft«d by them. The magic I pof- ci
fefs, said the wife of Marshal D'A ncre, is o
the ascendency of a ftrrtng mind over a weak
one, and the influence lam held by, (if I c
know myfelf,) is merely, that of a good
cause over 3 bad one. If the padions of f
men were made to last for ever, and true
steadiness »f condu&, confilted in a blind
and doltish adherence to founds inftcad of t
things, in defiaace of every change of cir- v
cumftance and situation, then both pallion t
and principle woald place me on the other t
fide. But since in the best of our natures, 11
we are differently constituted, and as in this '
" ftrapge eventful history," to " preserve (
our cwnfifteticy, we often find it neceflary to ,
vary our means," Ido not blush, to be found t
where I am. I call it a good cause, because i
I consider it the cause of order, liberty, mo
rality and religion. Unhappily it has been
too much difcreditcd by names, as the other
| (in every refped itsreverfe) has been exalt- '
!ed by them. But words will not for ever '
j usurp the place of things. Those of liber
| ty, patriotism and philanthropy, have been
too mutfb abused, much longer to impose on
; the molt credulous, and our Jacobins are
■ in a fair way of being left to themselves.
| But as lam a member of the British fac
-1 tion, from a persuasion, that in this way, I
1 best promote the true intercfts and happiness
of my country, so the cOmposers of the
: French one, have objefts no less dear to
them* which they hope to advance, by their
1 adherence to it. A similarity of views, a
t fondnefs for power, and a preference of the
: short cut to it, by gulling the populace by
- jacobinical cant and pretentions to superior
3 purity, infltad of acquiring it by the flow
f atid well earned fame of manly virtue and
1 integrity. Thtfe are the ties which rivet
s them to our dear allies. These are the qual
ities for which they admire the French, the
- views for which they cherish their cause, and
e flock to their standard. Nor with the most
1 fulfome profrflions of philanthropy in their
e mouths, do they blush te espouse the cause
1 of these monsters, who with the very fame
e profeflious, committed their most horrid en
y ormities. But the philanthropy of a J3CO
- bin only comes from the teeth. It has no
» connexion with the heart—and indeed gross
il pretensions to humanity, are always to be
t- fufpcAed. The man ef real feeling, difco
d vers himfelf in adiions, not in words, and
r Shakespeare, asd other accurate obferversof
n human nature, often give to characters of
■- this cast, a certain tin<9ure of asperity
ir Jacques, in As you like it, does hot furfeit
d us, with sentiments of Fraternity, or turn
:r our ftomachswith nauseous doses of his love
), and adoration of the people. Jacques it is
I true, is no candidate lor popular favor, and
much do I fear, that 110 real friend to his
species, will ever poflefs the talents for this
charming attainment.
But though the standard of Jacobinism
may at length be deserted, by all who have
a claim to honest intention, yet will it still
be ably supported. It will be resorted to,
r by the out-cafts of every country. It will
j be thronged by the hypocrites of all denom
,e inations. Religion, having been long thrown
, s i aside, as a thread-bare and useless disguise,
|r that of patriotism and philantropy, has been
aflumtd in its stead, by the scoundrels of
e the day; and were Moliere now living, and
lashing the age, his Tartuffe would not bea
devotee, but a patriot,
ir As this vice of hypocrisy, (themeaneft
; in the whole catalogue,) is the very oppo
>r site of candor and generosity, so is it pecu
ir liarly detestable to the pofTefTars of these vir
d tues, whom therefore, the modern Tartuffcs
justly consider as their natural enemies.—
Hince, their implacable enmity and eternal
e war with persons of this description—and
thelre is no surer mark of a manly difinter
v efted chara&er,-than that of being the ob
n_ je£l of Jacobin venom.
>e I think too well however, of the doftrines
*' of my country, to suppose, that it will ever
0 become a theatre for the uncontroled display
, 1 of the philanthropic malignity and infernal
c ; machinations of these patriotic impostors.
ir But if matters should unhappily be driveii
to extremities, I tiuft, that these outrage
ous facrlficeii to.liberty, these abettors of
1f fraud, rapine qnd ipjullice, these admirers
of judicial murder, assassination and the guil
:,| lotine, will find in every true American,
,n not only a foul to detefl, but a hand to op
r- pose them. INDIGENOUS.
r * GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
a . PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
lie —rr-rr
"t A fliallop which failed from this port a
j' 1 few day&fincc, bound to Baltimore, with
merchaadiae, chiefly bale goods, to the
amount of 40 or 50,000 dollars, has been loft
in Appoquinitr.ink Creek. It is expeded
that a part of the carg* will be saved.
.'tJervTofh, Mafth Q.
ARKItFD. DAY'S
Ship l)o!phin, Bar-let, Guadalotipe 20
Diana, White, Bourdeatix 4.3
Brg Dolphin, Savage, Jacmel
Ijnnice, St. Jarjo de .Cuba
Sloop Polly, Nicholas, St. Thomas's 1 7
Ship Diana, cn;'t, White, failed from
Bourdraux on the 14th Ja uaty, and from
Rouen at (h£ nwnth of the river, January
23, i., compc y with 7 other American ves
sels, among whom were the brig Salem, of
Sal m, and brigs Neptune and Aurora, of
Charlton, could not recoiled the names of
the other veflcl*
Spoke,only one vcflel during the vovagc-
Lcft at Bourdcai I *, Jan. 14, the (hip Po
mona, of Alexandria, capt. Wcters, to fail
sot Baltimore in three weeks.
The Ann, fr«m St. Thomas to St. Jago,
was captured 5 leagues from hence to Ja
maica, carried to Port-au-Paix; cargo con
demned, vcflel cleared.
Schr. Tabula, carried to Port de-Paix,
condemned.
Ship New-Jersey, from Canton to Phila
delphia, taken and sent for Port-ItCo.
Schr. Mary, from this part to Port-Ili
co, in ballast carried to Guadeloupe and
| condemned.
Schr. Betsey, Cafins, from New-York,
captured and condemned at Geuaives.
Extraft of a letter received this day by the own
ers <>f tne <hip Ohio, us thts port, f-osn rapt.
M'Laeblrn, dated 4'Orient, Nov. 12, 1797.
" It;kethis opportunity of informing you
that 11) the 9th inlt the 1 ship Ohio am] cargo
was cond mm >1 at Van'trs, to be dilpofel of fur
the benefit of the captors. All ;h fijip-. in this
port were condemned fevcral days before the O
-1 b:o, a]l our expedition of the lommiffiotitrK do
ing us any good art in vain In the court at
Vanr.es our iawver requeued that our board
ought to be paid for by the capt<rs, jut was
replied that it would not, and further observed
that we might thing ourselves highly favoured
in not being all pur into prifpu."
MR. FKNNO,
THE following is translated from a copy
of a paper, found on board of the French
privateer schooner L'Adventure of Guad«»
loupe, captured and carried into Martinique
an the ift of last February, by his Britan
nic Majesty's sloop of w, r Gy tie, and
which was received at this office from a ciii*
sen of the United States at Martinique.
Your humble fcrvant,
JACOB WAGNER,
Chief Clerk of the Department ef Stat<|
Department of State,!
10 Mareh, 1793. J
Entered i f the Ex rail fr«m the Archival
ters ef the Tribu- of the ir.ju los com
nil, 3d. Bromaire, mtrce in the
6th year [l3 Nov. lilandof oea;j
1797] inp it; Vo t Lib 1
Bujfc-terre in the said Island, the 25th Bru
mairt, Jlxth year of the Rrjiublrc, one and
indivifiblc. [l3 Nov. 1797*3
The fpeciai agents of the ExecAive Di
r®&pry, for the Windward Tilauds,
To the Tribunal of Commerce.
|. Several Americans have escaped our vigi
lonce, and that of the tribunal of Comm.r.t
- of Guadeloupe. The intention of Gov
ernment is to treat the* with the severity
that their treaty with our enemies has de»
. served.
Firstly. Every American who shall not
) have a Regifler, Sea-letter, Role d'equip
i age, invoices and bills of lading ; all in or
; der, and without contradidion, signed by
. public ofEeers, /hall be deemed a gsed
1 prize.
f Secondly. Those whose Captains and sit
s per-cargoes are Engliihmen by birib, and
. naturalized since the declaration of war, are
t to be condemned conformably to the laws.
1 Although all the Americans clear out for
r Guadaloupe, the better to deceive us, those
i shall be declared to be good prize which
j shall not be taken in the latitude bcrcjf
s The tribunal shall summon officers of the
s navy, appointed by the rcar-adir" al, to ve
rify the journals of the (hip's codrfe, as well
i as the declaration of the captors. The de
er cifion of the said officers of the navy, flial
1 be annexed to the papers of the cafe, and
, the Tribunal (hall pronounce judgment, ac
-1 cording to the said declaration and ottier do
- cuments. Tliefe presents (hali be n
I the registers of the Tribunal, to be in tore?
, from this day.—Health and Fraternity.
II Signed
f LE BAS and VICTOR HUGUES.
3 Collited—F'amexe, Clerk,
i (L. S.) Attested eopy for Peter Heuglar,
owner of the privateer Halletout,
t to ftrvt| as his rule during his
r cruize against the enemy.
•! NL\V-THEATRE
' MONDAY EVENING, March 12,
,] Will Le prefentad, the Hiftoriial Play of
] COLUMBUS ■,
Or, A World Discovered.
1- With the Cpmte Opera of
The SPOIL'D CHILD.
S THIS EVENING, March 10. '
r At M'Dodgal's AJJinbly Rom, Fmrtb, bttivm Chef
y nut and IVmlxutjlrectt,
j Will be prefeiiteft (by way ot an Evning l.ounje)
a whimffal Medley of Entertainment,, in three
parts,- c lied,
n The World as it Goes ;
Or, A TOUCH AT THE TIMES.
cnQllin b of various I) fcrij-tioiib, Recitation!,
Con>ic Sonets. &c.
u By Mr. BATES.
,! Un 1 uelday, the joth day of
April next, at 7 o'clock ia the evening, at
the City Tavern, Seaond Street, 10 the City
, of Philadelphia,
■\T7"ILL be exposed to public sale, tevenfe«ii
W - trafls or parcel* of land Gtuatrd in Point
townftiip in the county of Korthiimberland, and
containing in the whole fix thoufaVid seven hun
dred aud sixty-sour acres and three quatters,
a with the ufnal allowance for roads.
Terms of sale, i-j of the putchafe money on
the execntion of the deed, 1-7 in three monthi,
lc and I 3 in fix months, ia govd notes or other
approved fecarity
:d CONNELLY to* Co. stu3.
March 9. ' iawiadtieaJUST RECEIVED, <
AN* rOR Ult, AT
W. Young's Book-store,
Corner of Chefnnt and Second ftre«tf s
( Prica JO Cents)
Caifes qui fe font oppofcos arnx
rrogres Hu commerce, cntrc LA FK ANCE et let
£ 1 A T3-UNIS de L'AMERIQUE.
Arte Us Moyens de l'acc<ler«r ;
Et la comparaifon dc la Dettc Nationale i
de l'Angleterre, de la France, and des
ETATS-UNIS.
In fix Lettrea, addreflteei i Monfieurlc Mar
quis ds la Faystte. Tradnit fur le Ma
nofcrit Anglais du Colonel SWAN, ancien
Mcoibre de la Legtflature de la Rtpublique
du MaflachulTet.
Le Comuurce eft. la portion U plus importune des
(Richefles Nationales
LeTriJent de Neptune, eft lc fcept re du M nnde.
Limiiki.
Or eaufes that have been opposed to the
PROGRESS of I'OMMERCE botween
FRANCE and the UNITED ST AT Et of AMERICA.
With the meant of aocelerating it;
And a companion of the National Debts
of F.HglanJ, Frame, and Anuria,.
In Six klters, directed to the Marquis
de la Favette.
Tr .inflated (into Fr ni-h from th* original Eng
Kfh Manufcri t of Col Swan, formerly aMem
ber * t th, Lrgiflature of Massachusetts.
Commerce it the mott jnportaat portion of the
Wealth of Nations.
—T he Irident of Neptune it the Scrptre of
the world. Lemur*.
AT a junfture when the quertion of
a Commnml Trtaty mitt Frame may soon
become an of difcuflion, a work of thiskmd
becomes extremely ufefut to those eitixen« of the
Onised Stetes, who may be defirone to enable them
fclves to view this fu u jea, under its various af
tocifts i and they will have the fatisfaflion to be
furnifhtd with the necessary data, to judge of the
ofefulnefsof this tranfaflion.
This work is principally didinguilhed by the
liehntfr of the obferva'ion«, >ke p< rfpicuity of the
iVcas, and the modesty of the theory which it
contains. t Fart, a man of wit cbferved, that
this work* at like a rich farmer's barn, heaped up
to the very roof with ufeiul prortucc. It is addref
fcd to the unfortunate 1a Fatitti, in letters,
which fugitive so m, the author who oeuld only
devote a few weeks to this occupation, was obliged
td adopt. Althoufh are in many
refpcils diffeient at the present day, from what
th.y were in the year 179 c, when these letters
were written, y. t it maybe jnftly (aid, that lo ma
ny ahlelote and permanent data Hill remain, that
she liciows reader will not apprcftate the work
left 011 that account ; on the contrary, as many of
the alterations, which have been made, are the re
folt of the autl'br's remarks it will fcrve to eon
vince him that in all tranfafiioi.s, between free
nations, every thing maybe expelled from the ef
fort* of truth smdjuftiet.
LETTER I.
Oencral vi*w of thy obflaotes, created in France,
t» pi event ;h- extension ol commerce, with the
Uni cd Stat 9 —Observations made in a tour, taken
for that express purpose, uponfome French manu-
precious fragment this). Examination
»».i ri.'utimen of the prejudices existing in France,
Igaii.H the quality of cc'tain productions of the
United States:, aad againtl the advantages of their
importariyn —Uemonliration ol the bad policy of
laying duties en t-heir imitation, principally on
provisions in gener*l, and on fait provisions, and
filh hi pa ticuiar—Confiderationsontheregulations
el the Frensiica 'om-houfes.
LETTER 11.
Qbllacks to the extension of trade with Fras.e,
Jijocetdii.g Irotncircumttances and indiyiiSiils m
the United States—Proofs tha these oliftacles are
•nly temporary and will be removed (they have
Wo removed) by time and the wisdom of govern
ment—»Hillory »f the influence of the American
piper money—lniportai t { rinciplss and abftr»ft
eonfiderations on money and circulation—Causes
of the flagnati»n of American trade, afrtr the
peace—Critical examination of French im
ported into America, and extraordinary couduA
of the French merchants—Effeifts of good c«n».
tnircial laws; and patriotic wifheson this fubje&—
Observations 011 money, weights and me.afures.
LETTER 111.
EBay HI the fotia . f a tabUtu, to appraise the im
noi ration* into the United Slatesfrom France md Fug'
had ult ted. Ihe author examines at each article,
wliethei it ean be better lutnilhed from France or
England—lt is principally on this fubjeft (which
would haveaftorifhrda mere theorist) that the author
appears t<>evincegrea: cojnmercial expeiience These
kin of tiHeittx, uu'uckily as nifficult to obtain as
they are muih to be defited, are the only fute guides
the ltatcfrran can tjke for th policy o# treaties de
prived of w-fiich he is continually deet iuing or decci
vrd. Wec-nt.ot too muih admire the appdrtnt ex
aftneft of coloi-el Swan's calculations; and although
»be prophesies of Lord Sheffield have already been
enn tadift'd b? experience, and by fevtrai able pens,
yet it iscuiious to lee the author of he preleni work,
dispute w jrh him the only ground on which he has
not been Hitherto attacked, by proving that Frauce,
binder the lequi ed condiiion, will be better able
than Gieat Briiainto supply us with feverel articles,
■which the Enjililh aulhoi alioi| exclusively and forev
er to the latter; the aurhor't pd tidlity t/eCI m (if he
has anv) dnet not appear to have at any time created
a juttiJit) judgment. Ihe result of thit calculation
is that in >789. 11 at it to lay, at a period when arta
gnd manulaft 'eidid to( present in France the vast
means and probaba i y of extension which they now
poff f«- that even in 1789, it was prefomable, that
Fiance would not only have the meant 10 fupplv one
half of anv given q»anti y of the pr->duftions of Frtruc
tid ' r Lnd united butalfoto enter into competition
with Giear Briiain for Ihe remainder, in proportion
to the wildom of her government, and lite industry
of ber inhabitants
LETTER IV.
Calculation of the exportattnns of the United States,
■nd panicular examinaiion of their Inbableiiefs to
Filnir ; this is one reason why, notwitliftanding the
excell 111 woik of Mr. Tench Coxt, Mr. Swan's ta-
Hetu it by «o means fupeifluous , the principle of the
advantages which «»« d result 10 France from the
importance f provifinnsand taw materials, is every
whereapplied ; and « is upon thit argument, that
the author 1 ftablifties his demands to the French go.
veinmenl. for the limited sdjniiton of the ptoduc
fconsof his eountry into France.
LETTER V.
Tableau, of the debt of the United States at that
time-~-Opwions of the author on the finances, on the
•ffrftsof traiional debt, "0 circulation, tee. as more
amply deuiled in hit National Aithmeiic primed at
Boflon in the year >786 ; the whole calculated to
ftrengthenin France, the puble and private credit
■f the United States—the happy condition of Ameri
ca, and the mifertes arising from the public debt in
Europe, are contiafted in the ablest manner, and un
der the mod flriking telait ns, by very cu ious cal
culation*—^Obfervations on the wisdom snd eennemy
which preside overthe public expenles in MafTachu
fetts. In this place the pa'.riottfm of the author ap
pears, with all the elevation which ajufl national
•ride iolpires.. The ancient govern men IS of Europe,
lays he, will learn from us the art ol economy in
jßeompenfingthefrrvieet which the country receives.*
Amengjl uit u.ill tefttn, that men ire elujvf Jtr places,
cud not plactlfer men. This letter conelud t wiih a
general view of the publie property; deposited in the
bands as the goven ment of the United States.
LETTER VI.
General examination of the defefit of the commer
cial policy of Fiance with refpeft totbcUnitrd Stales;
many of these observations have produced the efFrfis
for which they were intended, others flill remain,
pointing out the reforms 1 o be made in futuie, as a
(j ood chart maiks the shoals and rocks, The author
ETATS-UNIS.
Concludes hit by Axing bit attention »n hi*
country, and the great men who Have rendered it il«
lufmousr and we take a plcafure in quoting what he
fays of the prefcru chief of our government. To
praiie a man when he exercifea a diiiinguilhed em
ployment, is common, and may be taken for flattery ;
hut whtlft he it in private life, it is the homage of
fiftcerity.
Note,
* Lea Kaftans dei btats-unts, fuivant dam leur
choix le bien public. 6c excites par un principe dc
reconnciilavce, rhoihrent M. John Adams pour vice
prehd nt du nouve-u cortgres. efforts, pour pre
server le peuple des intrigues formees par le gouv.
frnement Anglais contre fa liberie, le rendirent tres-
a ctux q-ii etoicnt en pouvoir. Le pruple,
convaincu de son mente, ie choifit pour un de <es
reprefentans dans le premier congrci. De ce oovnbr*
etoit aufli M Samuel Adams, pasriote audi intrepide,
qu'infatigabie La revoluiion Amerfcaine doit beau
coup ala perfeverancc de fes
di(liugesa Ceux que M. John Ad«ms a developpes
dans le traite de paix, qui s'eiWsif a Paris en 1783,
ont prouve qu'il etoit miniftre aulfi habile que grand
politique. Lt dans son ouvrage fur la defeitie ce b
ennditution Americame, il a montae toutes les can
noiddnces qui foime*t les vrais jufticonfultes Sc les
hommcadc loi; cennoiiTances neccilaires, pour rem
plir hwnorablement les prcfidcnt du fqoai
des E'ats-unis.
7TO~r I C E.
A Manttfaßary cf yellow and delft tudrt,
Such as never was ui this Country before, has been
been lately erefted at Tivoii, Red Hook Landing,
on the East Bank ot Hudson's Rivcr» ila e of New-
York, where any article of va»ious forts aad Hiapes
may be executed, as well as eartbem ilovts upon a
new conftru&ion, that bvri three fbJrths of the fuel
commonly used In cast iron stoves or open chyninics ;
they aie btfides very whOlesome and Ornamental, by
applying to
j. MOUCHET,
Wanted a (killful hand to attend to the baking and
glaxing part of the (aid ware. GenercAjs appoint,
aents will be given. Apply as above, or to
DAVID BROOKS, Esq.
No. 71 South sth Street
Feb. tfr. eod4-y
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demand* aga'nift
the estate of Willam Fl«ewtoob, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are rsquefted to exhibit their accounts,
properly auefled ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, to
GEO. DOBSON, }
No. 15, So. Third-ftrect. J J
Tanuary 4. dtf
For falc or to be let on ground
rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
H< use fquart This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present two small two story br'ck huulet, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient {lores, wharf, lee. firuifeon
Water street, between Mulberry an*l SafTifras
Street*, containing in front on Water flreet fif
ty-four feet, anA:ontaining that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
sou h thirteen feet fix inches. Tbtfe houses
have the convenience of a puhJ'c alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and area very defirablefit
uation foi a a merchant, flour faftor, or others
who may have occasion for florage of goods.
This property wfil be so d on very reafomble
terms for cash. For furthar information apply
ts the printer.
Juiv ti. m'wtf
Sill I ■ II ■ ~■■-■■■ 11 i . 1.1 .
Ran away Jrom the Subfcriier,
On the 14th January tall,
A Black Woman, named Zelime.
QHE is o( a middling sized fiaturc, thick lips,
O marked with the small pox in the sac
carried off a bundle of linen with her. Whoever
takes her up and brings her to the f>bfcriber, at
Nr. Arch-ftreet, corner of Fourth-street,
(lull receive two Dollars reward.
J. LAZELLES.
N. B. Whoever harbors fiid Girl after this no
tioe, shall be prefeeuted to the severity of the law.
Februaty 10. fat
New-Tort, January 14, 17585
PROPOSALS
By Arondt Van Hook,
Proprietor of the Reading Room ;
For Publishing by Subscription,
An Appeal to Impartial Posterity,
Br Madame Roland ;
Wife of the Minifler of the Interior in France.
CONDITIONS.'
These scarce and very valuable Historical Me
moirs, (which ran through two London «di
tionsm a few months,) will be comprised' id 2
vols. oiSlavo, ot 400 pages each.
They will be printed on fine paper and a new
type, and delivered to Subscribers, neatly bound
and letteted, at 1 dollar i)id 50 cents per vol
ume —one third of the Subscription money tobe
paid on delivery of the firft volume—the re
mainder when the work iscompleat.
To Printers, Booksellers, and others, who
acquire Subscriptions, the usual allowance will
be made.
.£s* Subscriptions are taken at the Reading-
Koom, No. 149, Water flreet —the Printing
office, 149, Pearl-ftreet —and at the different
Bookstores in New-York - Alio, by William
Young, cerner cf Second and Chefnut street, nd
the Editor of the Gazette of the United States,
Philadelphia.
As soon as a fufficießt number of Subscribers
are obtained, the work will be put to press, and
compleated with the utmost dispatch.
Feb. 10. eodim
PROPOSALS,
tOR PRINTING BT SUBSCRIfTIOI >,
A NSW AND INTERESTING WOIK, INTITLSB,
A TREATISE
ON THE POLICE OF LONDON,
Containing a detail of the various crimes and nif
-1 drmeanor«, by which public arui private prep«r
ty, are, at present, injured and endangered :
And fuggelling remedies for their prevention.
BY A MAGISTRATE,
AtSing for the counties of Middlesex, Surry, Kent,
aud Essex ; for the city and liberty of Westmin
ster ; and for the liberty of the Tower of Lon
don.
CONDITIONS.
This work will be printed in a lorge o£tavo, on
»n excellent Engiilb paper—lt will be delivered to
fubfcrihcrc, bound in boards, at the moderate price
of One Dtllar and a sals; although the lart London
edition, oa inferior paper and meanly bouad, in
now fold at 'wo dollars and a half. Tonon-fub
fcrfber. the price will be raised.
' Whatever encouragement may be given by sub
scription, it will he committed to 'he pr«fs without
delay ; aud, barring accidents, will be roady for
publication early in April.
£3" Subscriptions will he thankfully receivedat
BrNjAMiN BaviesVs book-floie, No 68, High
ftreet, aud by melt of the other booksellers is the
city ; by George Hill, in Baltimore; end by Sam
uel Campbell, and A. Druminoad, in New-Yerk.
January 31. »awlA
PROPOSALS,
BV TH f
Injurance Company »f North America.
For iNstiiANez against Fiai, on Dwilling-
Houses, Ware-Houses. and other Buildings (and
on Goods contained in such Buildings) distant from
Philadelphia, in the United States. '
T. Common lufurancei, on hazard? of the firft
class, will be undertaken at a premium of ahout
half per cent, per annum. For extra hazardous
rifques a larger premium will We required, which
will vary according to circumstances, fcidom ex
ceeding one per cent, per annum ; out in some fn
ftances. where the property insured is not only in
itfclf extra hazardous, kut rendered dill more so
by the vicioity of extra hazardous buildings and
occupations, the premium demanded will be railed
according to circumstances.
Homlcs and Ware-House«, the walls and parti
tions of which are wholly of stone or brieh, well
conftruiled, so as to h» guarded as well as may be
against fin.J from within, and two from extra ha
laruoiw buildings and octcupations in their nei<b
b.rhood, will lie deemed hazardous of the firft
class, and may be injured to their full value.
Also Goods and Merchandize, not o! all extra
hazardous kind, iu calks, bales, cr pacisagps, de
pofitcd ui such buildings, to :n ssmount not ex
ceeding 4000 dollars ; but if more than this fom
is required to be insured in one tenemc7t, an addi
tional premium will be required, in pruportion to
circumllances.
11. lnfurances will also be made on buildings and
goods extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to the risque. BuC it it not cafy to arrange the fe
under particular heads cr clafTea, so as to dcfcribe
each with the neceflary accuracy. Each caf- must
therefore lie dtcidedupon according to the circum
stances attending it ; and these circumstances wili,
in general, appear from the dcfcriptioo accomp«-
uy;ng tfeeapplicatio/i.
Bu flings partly conftru&cd ef brick or stone,
are preferable to those wholly wooder. And in
both cases, the stile of building, how they are oc
cupied, how they ire Ciuated, the neighboring
buildings, and how occupied, are considerations to
be taken into view. And with refpeS t» goods,
their tendency, whether froui their nature, or
from the matmiw in which they are expo fed, ether
to commence or to increase an accidental fire, and
their li&h.lity iu such state to receive damage by
wet, or by sudden and hafly removal, or to be (to
len in time of confuGon and hurry, are all cir
cumstances «f weight ; and the premiums mull be
proportioned accordingly.
111. The following conditiont are to be under
stood by the parties .
ift. The Insurance is net binding till the stipu
lated premium be paid ; but it (hall be deemed ef
fectual from the time of such payment and acci-p
---•.ance thereof, whether the policy be immediately
(igned or not.
ad. lnfurances may be renewed at the expira
tion of the term of thepelicy, withrut further ex
pense« than the payment of the premium of the re
newed term, the circumstances continuing the fame
as they were understood by the Infuri rs at the time
thelormer insurance was marie ; but the payment
of the premium isyeffential to such renewal; and
if the party insured fufters any time to elapse after
the expiration of the former insurance, before he
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
during such time ; Hor can the insurance be renew
ed on the former policy but by computing the
commencement of the renewal from the expiration
of the former insurance. The fubjefl of insur
ance may nevertheless be open to treaty for a new
insurance.
3d. If any other insurance be made on the fame
proporty ; itmuft be made known at the time of
application, otherwise the policy made on such ap
plication will be void.
4th Goods held in trust, or on consignment,
may be insured as such in a separate policy; but
they are not to be considered as infuied stherwife.
sth. This company will not be liable or accoun
table for any loss or damage occifioncd by any for
eign invilion, or by any military or ufsrpcd force,
or by reason of any civil commotion ; or occasion
ed by gunpowdtr, aquafortis or other thing of the
like kind kept in the building, or amongtt the pro
perty insured.
6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu
rities, Title D«fds, Money, Bank and other pro
inillsry Notes, are not included in any insurance ;
nor are paintings, -Dedal', jewels, gems, antique
curiosities, or mirrors exceeding the value of twen
ty-live dollars each, to be considered as insured un
less particularly mentioned and by fpeciai agree
ment.
7th. No insurance will be made for % fharter
term than one year, nor lor a longer term than fe
ve« years. Perfonj chooiing to insure for seven
years (hall be allowed one year's premium by w ay
of difeount: o<ie third ot a years premium {hall
be abated in like manner on an insurance for
three years.
Bth. Losses sustained Hy fire an property injured,
ftiall be paid in thirty days after due prouf and li
quidation thereof, without deduction.
A description of the property to be infurod will
be expe&ed with sach application, to be made by
a master carpenter and signed by him, as well as
by the owner of the building ot applicant for in
surance, and attested before a Notary or principal
Magistrate, who will certify his knowledge of the
parties and their credibility.
With refpedl to Hau/es and other Buildings,
lit. The site and portion ; delcribing the
street or road on or near w;hich the building
ftaods ; its contiguity to water, and other cir
cumstances relative to the extinguilhment of fiie
in cafe of accident; and particularly" whether
any and what firs companies areeftablilhcd.and
engines provided,in the place or neighbour hood.
id. The materials of which it is built, whe
ther of brick, stone or wand, and what part of
each, as well as to the outlide walls as infideor
partiticn walls, and tt'eir rcfpedlive height and
thickness ; the style of the roof and of what
materials ; how secured by battlements or par
ty walls; what kind of accefsto the top of the
house a»d to the chimniet | whether any and
what ele&ric rods ; the number and kind of
fire places ; and the kind of deposit for alhes.
3d. The dimenlions of the building and how
divided, and the style in which it is finilhed so
as ta enable indifferent persons to judge in what
manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury ; the 'ge and condition of the building,
and how occupied, whether merely as a dwel
ling house, or for any other, and for what pur
pose ; also an estimate of the value of thehpule
or building independent of the ground.
4th. Tie situation with refpcifl to cither build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at least one hundred feet
each way : what kind of buildings are within
that distance, how built, of what materials, and
how occupied or improved, whether as dwel
lings for private families or otherwise : whe
ther any and what trade or manufactory is car
ried an, and particularly whether there be any
extra hazardous articles used, or iifually depo
sited in the house, or within the distance afore
faid, and of what kind.
Rclpedl ing good j in Houfts, Warehouses, &c.
1. A general description of the building in
which they are kept will be expeiHed, limilar in
all rrfpe£ls,as to the danger from tire, with that
required for Insurance on the buildings theiri
lelves
2. A description of the kinds and nature of
I the goods, whether in calks or other packages,
or opened ; and whether displayed in whole
pieces or in the usual form for retailing. And
if the goods vary materially in kind, a general
estimate ot the value «r uah kiad prapofed to
tie iulured ; scut in the last particular minute
ness of description i» not expefled.
3. Articles of the following kinds are deem
ed extra hazardous, thnugh in various degrees,
in whatever building they may he placed* viz %
pitclij tar, turpentine, rol-n, wax, tallow, oil,
iiillimaiable spirits, sulphur, hemp, flax, cotton,
ilrjr poodi of an inflammable kind opened.—
china ware or porcelain, especially un
packed; Looking piaffes, jewelery; and all o
thcr articles mors than commonly inflammable,
or rr ore than commonly liable to injury by sud
den removal or by moifturea, or particularly
obnoxious t« theft on »n alarm of fir*.
Letters pall paid, diredWd to the Secretary of
the Board of Dircdors, wilKke duly attended
t«. An order for Insurance accompanied by the
means of paying the premium, will be imme
diately executed on the premium being paid. If
W.c application co&tain an enquiry only, it will
be answered.
By order of the Baird,
EBF.NEZER HAZARD, See'ry.
Office of the Inl'urance Company a/'Nort'i )
America; Pkilad.Feb.lt
Feb. 14- _ 1
To be Sold,
A BRICK HOUSfc, together with the Lot
thereto belonging, >n the city of Burling
ton, Ncw-Jerfey. The house has three roems !
below, and three chambers in the upper
The kitchen adjainlng is a frame buil ing. Ihe
Lot has a front of 71 feet on Pearl-street, and
the fame front on the river Delaware. 1 lie
length of the Lot is about ajo feet —T he house
commands a very pleatant profpe<3 of the river,
and of the Bor»ugh of Bristol, on the Pennsyl
vania Ihore. Immediate pofl'effion may be had.
For further particulars, inquire of Mr. John
Sims, next dear below the City Tavern in Phi
ladelphia, or the fubferiberin Burlington.
THOMSON NEALE.
Burlington, march T. . "eniltw
Vaiuabte Property for Sale.
, FOR 3A1.8,
well lenown Ettate, called SHIIEWS-
I BURY FARM, formerly the residence of •
General John €adwalader, fireate on Saflafrus Ri
verain Kent county, Maryland—containing a
hout 1900 acres of prime LAND, upwards of 500
cf which are in woods. The Buildings are all ex- 1
cedent, and consist a handsome Dwelling House,
two large Barns with Cow hou r es, Stables for fifty
horses, a spacious treading iloor uride/ cover, a
granary, two OirerfeerS house*, two ran
ees of two story buildings for Negroes (one of
them new and of brick), Corn houses, a Snioak
house , &c. &c.—The whole Estate feeing newly
surrounded by water, k requires but 'ittle fencing,
and has a good Shad and Herringfiflviy. It is
conveniently fitjated for both the Philadelphia and
Baltimore market*, with two landings on a navi
gable rivtr but a (bort fail from Baltimore. There
is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
thepiemifas; also, a variety of excellent fruits of
different kinds. The foil is mostly a rich loom.—
The whole will be fold together, or divided into
finaller farms (for which the buildings are conven
iently situated) as may suit the purchafcr. The
Stock on said Farm, consisting of Horses, Cattle, j
Shocp, &c. will also be disposed of.—For further
particulars apply to George Hastings, on the
premises, or to the fubferiber, irt Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jun.
February 24. aaw6w
House and Lots, in Bordentown.
HPO BE SOLD, a handsome two story House,
X with the Lot on which i' is erefted, situat
ed about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
Village of Bordentown. The house i> forty
two feet in front, and in neat order. The lor
contain* one acre, and is one hundred feet on
the main street, and extends with the fame
breadth to back (Ireet. Also, a large Lot, con
taining nearly four acres, separated from the
former by back street. One third only of tht
purchase money will be required upon execut
ing a deed, and for the remainder, such credit
w 11 be give* as the purchaser may chufe. This
property will be fold free of all incumbrances,
and an ir.dlfputable title given.
For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnes, residing in Bordentown, near
the premises, who will (hew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, No. 43, Mulberry-street.
December a. 3*wtf
Just Published,
And to he had at the Book-tlores of MelTrs. Sea
son, Caufbell, Young and OauitaD,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caules and Cure of Remitting ar Bilious
Fevers.
To which is annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the op'oions and praSice of
different authorsl and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interefl ing fails and reflections relative to
the Synwlus ißcroiJit, or Yellow Fever, which
ha* ocrafioned so much diftref. and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the feapurt
towns of the T'nited S'ates of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felow of the Philadelphia College of t hyficians,
and Member of the American Philosophical So
ci»ty. Feb. I—*3m§
Bafkenridge—for sale
IT consists of 910 acres, iilmoft ail of which i«
a fine rich Meadow, (the residence of the late
E*rl of Stirling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which arc bounded on the
East by the river Pafaiek.
Ther* are on it a number of buildings, forming
afquare of nearly three aeres—-The dwelling house
is as very convenient one and a fmallexpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard contifts of 1500 fin»bearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other parts ot said
trail near 300 other Apple l'rees—as also a great
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
bed andjnoft delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
Forest Trees, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its fituatiop is about 18 miles!
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do. •
from Morris-Town, and I a from Springfield—lt \
is wooded and watcVed.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in ca(h, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chcfnut trect.
February 2. eodtf
COLUMBIA HOUSE*
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MUS. GROOM£i?H)G"E with much pleaf
ureand refpeifl, return's hrr sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragemeut
(he has received during four years relidence in
Philadelphia; and aflures her friends and the
public, fe far from intending to decline her
icliool, Ihe has ma le a fupenor arrangement for
the more convenient accommodjtion of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly tttemlei by Mrs.
Oroombridge and masters excelling in ftieir
refpeiftive profeffions.
COl neV of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797. srmftf
The fitaition i; perfe<slly healthy : and made
more agreeable by »n extensive jjarden and lut
of (rcund adjoining the hsufe.
THIS DAY IS t)Pi!NED,
And for sale by WILLIAM \ v'IJNO, No. j% t
corner as Second and Chcf.nu-ltreets,
In one large volume, S vo.
(Price of the common fSper, neatly hound, 1 doHart
tentll fine ditto, in boards, 3 dollari) m
AMERICAN T GAZETTEER,f
I EXHIBITING, in alphabetical order, a mucll
j more full and .warate Account, than hai
bien triven, of the State", Provinces, Counties,
Cities, Town*, Villages, Rivers, Bays, Harbours,
Gulfs, Sounds, Capes, Mountains, Forts, Indian
Tribes, and New Discoveries, on the AMERICAN
CONTINENT, also of the Wist-Inbia Islands,
and other Islands appendant to the Continent, and
• liofe newly discovered in the Pacific Ocean : De
ferring the Extent, Boundaries, Population, Gov
ernment, Productions, Commeroc, Manufafiures,
Curicfitiea, See. of the Uveral Countries, and of
tleir important Civil DivifiotK—and the Longi
tude and Latitude, the learings and Distances,
from noted Places, of the Cities, Towds, and Vil
lages ; —with a particular Drfcription of The Gear'
gia Wefem Territory. The whole cotnprifing up
wards of Seven Thouland diftindt Article«.
Collcited and compiled from tht best Authori
tie, and arranged with great care, by, and under
the direction of
JEDIDIAH MORSE, ». d.
Author of the American Univcrfaltieography
Fellow of the merican Academy of Artsand
Sciences—ar.d Member ri the MaffachnfettsHif.
torical Society.
[Ulluflrated with ft ven new and neat Maps.)
I PubliJleJ actor ling to a& of Congrcfi.J
Also, FOK SALE, at above,
Mr. Morse's Universal Geography,
In two large 8 vo. volumes, price 4 duls. 50 ccs.
Ditti?, abridged, at I dollar.
February a 6. eo4t
New-Tori, Felruary, 1798.
PROPOSALS*? GEORGE FORMAN^
for printing by suuscmprioN,
A New and Valuable Work, which has been ex
tantonly lix gi*nths—entitled
PROOFS of a CONSPIRACY against
all the • eligions and Governments of EU
ROPE, carried on in the secret meetings of Free
Masons Illuininati, and Raading Societies. C»l
---leiSed fr#m good authoritie .
By JOHN ROBISON, a. m.
Froftjfor of Natural Pbilofofhy, and Secretary to the
Royal Satiety of Edinburgh.
Nam tua res agitur paries cum froximus ardet.
HIS work will he put to prefsas soon as
400 lufefcribers are obtained, and no money requir
ed until the work is completed.—lt lhall l>e print
ed with an - legant new type, and on paper of fu«
perior quality, which will comprise about 400
pages neat o&avo, handsomely bound and lettered
—the price will lie one dollar a»d fifty cents*
Thofr who procure it fubferibers, and become
accountable, (ball have a 13th gratis—and the u
sual allowance to booksellers.
%* The above work comes from the pen of J.
Rohifon, of Edinborough, a gentleman in high
eftimatios in the literary world—the ia&s therein
recordtd are-well futftantiate , and thereafomng
and arguments thence deduced, while they riff co
ver the found judgment and penetration of the
writer, are calculated to amuse as well as to in
ftruft. A scene of villainy is developed by the
author fufficient to appal the fteuteft heart.—Th«
danger to be apprehended from secret foeietias is
clearly pointed out ; the degeneracy of human sa
ture awfully Mluflrated, and the hazard ol every
deviation trsm the ftraii;ht path of religion and
of virtue, incontellibly proved both to the politi
cian and the christian by stubborn and incontro
vertable fi&s.
Subferiptiem taken in by G. Forman, A#,
tlViUiam Jlreet, opposite the Pofl-Offiee, and by the rifpet*
ive bookfcellen in New York and Philadelphia.
February sB.
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subfcribec, propoGng to hia buft
nefi, offers this EfUte for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of stones ; also a good Forge, ali
in perft£l repair, as are all the Water Works connect
ed with thefc various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built tor the purpofe 1 of carting Cannon
for this State.—There are abou two thousand acres
of Land, one half of which itundci wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay asd
Paflure. The Cannon lately manufactured' thcie,
tully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
Superior to any in this country, and probably, rqial
to any in the world ; for not o*\t of sixty-nine gwns
lattly made, although some of rhe 34 were bored
into 32 pounders, hate failed on proving. The situ
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufa&ure, aad a place ot arms lying in the ttate
of Connc&ieut, and only 30 miles from several land*
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan*
tage that can result from a plenty of water ifTuing
from jl large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeftil purposes. The purchaser can be?ccommodat»
ed with all theilockand utensils, and have polfefTion
00 or betoie the firli of June next, and preparation
may be made in the meantime for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
in good order, with (ome co|}, Ore, ice, &c. For
terms, apply to Mr Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, Esq. one of the Representatives
iiv Cor-grefs lor thisSta'e ; Mr, Dwid Waterman, ea
the preirales, or lothepiODiietor.in Nrw-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee. 1. jswtf
Wanted, to Hire y
A l arge and convanient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a gonrrrms
rent will be given; to be taken for a year, or on
more for a longer term. Inquire of th« Printer.
0<». 17. eotf
FOR ~SALE,~
Several fonts of Types-—half worn.
Including Long Primer, about 400 weight, its
good condition, and would answer the purpose of
a country Printer as well as new.
Enquire of the Printer
Lately Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, c«rnej of
Second and Chefnut ftrests,
(Prise 3•'itbs of a dollar/
Objervatisns on certain Dtcumenis
rontaincd in No. V and VI of
" The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
Id which the charge ol spiculation against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late SxckETAKt of tliir TtiAstat, is FUI LY
RFFUTHD.
WRITTEN BT HIMSELF.
This publication prefuus a concifc ftatemtnt of
the base meac* pradifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the chara&ers cf those
persons who are considered as hostile their dtfor
ganizing schemes. It also cextaina the correfpen
dence between Mr. Hamilton am! Messrs. Mor.rsc,
Muhlenburg ar.d Venable, on the fubje<ft of the.
documents aforcfaid, and a series of letters from
Jardes Rtynclds and his wife to Mr Hamilton,
proving beyor.d the possibility of a doubt, thit the
eennediion between him and Reynolds was the re
fukof a daring conlf iracy on the part of the lat
ter and hUafTociatet to extort money.
A difconnt of one third from the retail
price will be niadt in favor as wholeflle purcha
f'ers, for cask. Ordars co be addrcfted to Mr,
Yoono,
February ~