#a?ette »t ox ©Uutefl states, AND Philadelphia Daily
By John Fenno, N° 119 Chefnut Street.
NuMßEtt 1671.J
Custom-House Sales. *
Philadelphia, January 13, 1798- °"
ON Monday, the egth of January, 1798, at IB Fc
o'clock, Will be (old by public audion, at the at
Cuiloro-Houlc, in puifuince of the laws in thit fc»ie at
made and provided, the following articles ot mer
chandize! having been Sored more than nine months
and not claimed by the owoers orconfignee. thereof;
which articles may be viewed doriog the space ot
three days antecedent to the day of-feie, between the
hosrs of nine and two o'clock. irUe
FCP Two cases, containing Woollen Hats
MpC One cafe, containing Books and Pamphlets
RP Three calks, containing Girth Web Mr
(DU) One cask, containing Spades jnd Shovels
vT Four calks, containing Garden Seeds, Peas f eet
P and B®ns ftre.
IS One keg of Red X-eadj yeaj
<> Wp One crate of Earthen Ware the
BTM Two do. do. j
WL One do and two cases containing Images and
ornaments for building ate
[No mark] Two Hampeis of Bottled Porter
P Eight Hampers of Empty Bottles (
W B One calk of Bottled Porter dou
Tho's Stephens One bundle, containing pieces ol of ,
Music ' fen
Mr.Scott. One Vox containing old Pamphlets j
< Mr* Aubley • One box of Pamphlets p| u
WA Three pipes Madeira Wine bei|
W L P One box of Pewttr Lamps occ
"■ j
B One box containing Brufhej
G . Bolland. Onecaflc. containing ajcheefe and lome
oatmeal
yK. One crale of Earthen Ware tec
R. u. One crate of Earthen Ware. aru
Jan., 3 '
— OIK
THE SUBSCRIBER
INTENDING to leave this country in the course _P
' of the summer for Europe (if he compleats the
fcttletrrcmrofhK affair- by that time) and where it
is probable he may reside as a merchant —requests p
' every man who has any demands against him to j
cjome forward therewith, in order that a final 0
tlemnnt may take place r
GEORGE MEADE.
Philadelphia, Jail. 13,1798.
TO BE SOLD, the
On FRIDAY, the 30th of March next, at his
dwelling houf-i in Chefhui-ftreet, four doors a- e i e
bove Tanth-ftreet,
All his houfhold and kitchen -
Furniture Plate, &c. &c. and which may be view
«d every day for three days before the sale, from .rl
ten o'clock in the morning till one o clock, and
from tliree o'clock in the aiternoon till night.
TO BE SOLD BY PRIVATE SALE, Ri
And if not fold by Saturday, 17th January, then
to be set up, and positively fold, at PUBLIC
VENDUE, at the Merchants' Coffee-houfc, at
6 o'clock in the evening,
The Subscriber's House, No. 78,
. in Walnut-street, two door? below Fourth.street, '
}, now occupied by Dr. Stevens for one year Trem "
4th November last, at the rent of 4COl.per annum;
was rented at the time of the late .ever, or it
would have brought, I tlihjt, more. The two
Stables in Walnut street will be set up Separately
or together ; the largest one now remaor 55 1 - tte
smallest for 4 jh P er annum, and they afc arched "
and laid in mortar and two inch plank, and the
cellar will hold about 100 pipes of wine, which 1
was once offered 601. per annum for. A large Store
in Fourth street, 33 feet front by jo feet deep, a
good yard and necessary belonging to it; on this
ttortris X ground rent of 11 dolls. 75 cents per ann.
this building is rented to the public for eighteen
' months at 45 01. per amjum, and the rent was paid
down ; it might have been rented at the fame price
for three years, but I declined it Uaft it nutjht hurt
the falc. A lot in Fourth street, 2,0 feet front by cc
50 feet deep, «n which is a ground rent of 6 dolt
I lars per annum; it has the privilege of a three feet
alley adjoinmg the lot.
Should it make any difference to the purchaier,
Mr.Mkabe will endeavor to prevail on Dr. Ste- ~
vens to give poffeflion sooner, if he cjin with con- V,
venience.
payments. ..
Approved notes and indorfers at 6, 9, 11 and 18
months : the deed to be lodged with Wm. Tilgh
man, Elq. till the notes are paid : On the house,
Edward Stiles, Esq. ha? a mortgage for 16301. On a
the (tables, Mr. Samuel Williams for 3001. These
funis may lay as long as the purchaferpleafes,pay- .
ing the interest regularly.
For further particulars, apply to William Tilgh
mau, Esq. or to the fubferiber, Chefnut, four
doors above Tenth-forget. T
GEORGE MEADE.
FOR SALE —the folio-ruing f
Trails and Lots of Land, J
Of an excellent quality. j.
No. I. Four hundred and thirty acres of excel
lent Land, on the waters of Back cf 'ek, Freder-
ick county, VirgrnTa, 011 tne gTSit roa<3 lea®ng" to
South branch, about ten milas from Winchelfer ;
one hundre ' atres of which is rich bottom ; a fine
flream running through it, with several springs ;
the trees in the bottom are chiefly sugar maple, -
black walnut, hicory and locufl.; there is a log'
tlwelling and out houses, some meaciow made, and j
about forty atres of upland cleared ; on this trad ,
there is a good mill feat, where an under-shot mill ]
might be ereited. (
No. 2. Two hundred and fifty acres, about two <
miles from Woodftock; part of this trail is in j
cultivation, is finely timbered, and a good quanti
ty of meadow may be made.
No. 3. Two thousand five hundred acres on the ,
waters of Hewes' river, Harrifon county, state of .
"Virginia. 1
No. ». Four hundred acres, in Bald eagle town
■fhip, Northumberland county, state of Pennsylva
nia.
No. J. An half acre l«t in the town of Rich
mond, Virginia.
ALSO, AT PRIVATE SALE,
The following tradts of Land.
fiopooacresof landin Walhington county "> State of
174,cc0 do. Montgomery j Georgia
31,02? do. Orangehugh district "> State of
141,386 do. Charleston j So. Car.
40,000 do. on the Alleghany river J State of
54,c00 do. Weftmoreland county j Penn.
41,900 do. Wythe, Walbington, 7 State »f
and Grayfon counties j Virginia
10,000 do. in Bedford county.
All which he will fell on the most reasonable
terps, and but very little money will be required,
fbe remainder may lay upon iredit for I, », 3,0r
4 years, fccurity being had upon the lands.
January 13. dt27th
FOR SALE,
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Including Long Primer, about 400 weight, in
good condition, and would answer the purpose of
a country printer as well as new.
Enquire 6f Printer, nov. 33J
P HIL AD EL PHI A WEDNESDAY EVENING, JAhUART 17, 1798.
— ■
Public Sale of Real Estates.
On THURSDAY Evening, the 15th of A
February next, will be eipofed to Public Sale, » j
at the Merchants' Coffee-houfc in Second-street,
at 6 o'clock in the evening, the following '
ESTATES.
No. I. A two (lory brick House, with 1 two j
story frime Buildings, on a lot %Q feet froiit iiid ■
10c feeufeep ; also, a Vacant Lot of 40 fret fquaK!, L.
with the privilege of an alley to go thereto. This
interest has lately been let for aoo dollars per an
num, and is firuated in Chriftian-ftrect, between 3
Front and Second flreets, the fecoad house from ™a
Mr. Caleb Ash's.
No. ». A three story brick House, situate at
the north east corner of Chefnut streets, being 14
feet on Second-flreet, and 20 fret on Chefnut-
ftrei't, now in the tenure of Mr. M orange, at the
yearly rent of 400 dollars, and is deemed one of a
the bell Hands for the sale of dry goods ill this city.
No. 3. A handsome well fmilhed three story
brick House, 10 feet front and 10® feet deep, situ- '
ate in Fifth-ftreet, between Market and Arch-
streets, No. 40. This house is built and finiftled 1
in the modern style, is in complete repair, with 1
double cellars under the whole. Thei eis a ciflern
of rain water in the yard ; and the house is at pre- 1
fert let for 600 dollars "per annum with the taxes. Co
No. 4. A three story brick House, situate in j6(
Plumb-street* between Second and Third street, Se;
being 10 feet front and 13(6 feet deep, at present
occupied by Robert Kenny.
No. 5. A three story, brick House, on the bank
c fide,of Front-Ireet, No. 171 North, going thro' Jjj
to Watqr-flreet, where it is five story. It is 2©
feet front and 48 feet deep, in complete repair,
and it rented for 600 dollars per annum. (
The conditions of Sale are, one quarter cash, ~
one quarter in 6 months, one quarter in 9 tiiontbfc, *1
and one quarter in 11 months. **
e Philadelphia, Jan. 11, 1798. 3 aw tIjF
e To be fold,
, A N ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, couuin
-0 jl\ ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
story brick House and Kitchen thereon, an 3pple
Orchard, &c. situate on the Irish traft lane, in the
township of Moyamenfing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of 1^
the Philadelphia Gazette. Jn
:s The improvements upon this place, for tadc and Big
* elegance, (land unrivalled.
ijecember I. dtf co
1
The Subscriber intends to make
n application for the tenewal of a Certificate of a Share
j in the Bank of the United States, (landing in the name
of A. B. N0.5004, dated July 11, 1 >97' the f »nie
having been loft. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. !• an .
I ROSS & SIMSON,
it HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
1 j a quantity of Bengal COTTON
:; Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxw
3T~; Jamaica, J
1; St. Vincents, > RUM. «
it and Bengal J X
■o 300 calks RICE, rnd 0 ,
[y A parcel of (hip building RED CEDAR.
Ie Oft. 27.
Ie Chocolate and JVluftard, ""
1
of a superior quality inanufatflured,
/LINGER and Pepper, ground ; shelled or
j VJJ" pearl 'Barley ; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
n Ale and Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Ale ; (
» n London Porter ; red. Port and Lilbon Wine, A
id l'uitable for exportation or home confumptioßi |J
cc The highest price given for Mustard-Seed. r£
rt Also for sale, A quantity of Bocking and
by common Baizes, a variety of colors; a bale of
>1 Fustians, Shawls, Ac, for sale by
ttt JOHN HA WORTH, v
No. 98, south Front-street,
- r > nov. 17. m.gcrh.t.l J.
n- Canal Lottery —No. 11.
jg TT TILL commence drawing Monday, thezoth
, VV inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
• fe " Seven Dollar;, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
3n ' and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Secetid-ftreet—
efe Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten ■
iy . Dollars, where check books are kept lor register
ing and examining in these, the City of Waffiing
ton, No. 11. and Paterfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in most of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The bufmefs of a Broker, in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities, h
Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of g
Lands, Houfcs, &c. &c. w.i'.l be duly attended to, \
by Wm. BLACKBURN. f
november 15* §
St music.
sne J. L. LENZ,
S s > Txacher o'l Vocal and instrumental Music,
P' e > 1} f rURNS hisfmcere thanks to.the Ladies and
'°f? JCV Gentlemen, from whom he received a very
in; ' Hberal encouragement since his refldence in this ci
•a<st ty, and refpe&fully informs his friends and the pub
n'il lie generally, that, in consequence of the rsqueft
of some of his friends, he has opened a Musical
:wo ScJieol at his house in Spruce Street No I74,where
s he will teach ou the Piano forte, Violin &c. &c.—
ntl " He deems it unnecessary to enlarge upon the ad
vantages the learner will derive from an inftituti
on of this kind; he will only fay, that attention
e and zeal are much excited in an alfsmbly, where ■
numbers are in pursuit of the fame object. His
wn " arrangement is such, that an iuterference of the
' va " the different sexes will be avoided. Those Ladies
and Gentlemen who cannot make it convenient to
* c h" attend at his school, he will wait upon at their
houses. Applications will be thankfully receiv
ed at hii house, where his terms anil further parti
culars may be known,
j. Dec, 7. *jweod
rgia ~ NOTICE.
- of
- ar ' AIL persons concerned are hereby notified,
: JTx that the fubferiber intends to apply for a re
ln* newal of the undermentioned loft certificates of
= . Stock in the Bank of the United States —He for
'inia warded them under cover of a letter addressed to
John Anlley,of London, by the {hip Bacchus, capt.
a ''' e George, which left this port in June last for Lon
re<*' don. But that (hip having been captured on her
> or passage and fentto France, the above letter and m
clofures have failed in their definition.
Three certificates, viz.
Nos. 26325, 26326, 26327, each for
rn four (hares, dated January ift, 1797, and
■ " issued in the name of Henry Grace, of Tot
■t 0 f tenham Highcrofs, Grsat Britain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
D. Philadelphia, november 8. ia'vfiw
Nicklin is? Griffith,
At their Store on Wilr.m StreeiWharf — T
HAVE FJR SALI, .
J? hhds. of Jamaica Kmn
Madeira Wineinpip-3 au/1 iihd-. Ml
Teneriffc do. in pipes ;
Old Port do. in hhds. rd
Imperial Tea in quarters and eigbrlt' of cliefb we
S.'il Canvass, No. I, to J ,or
DirrmiCT, Gingliams, and Mvifiineis, in p»clA- of
ges suitable for the Weit lndia.markat v "'
Nails afTirted
Black quart bottles ,
Queens'ware in hhd». and crates lo
Yellow ochre dry in casks ; ] att
And atNew-York, onboard the
ship Diana, from Liverpool,expeiled round
as soon as the navigation is open, D f
Fine Liverpool Slit ing
CoiU • tigi
Spanifti Brown ") f'o
Venetian Red ' : ' IC
Purple Brown PAINTS "J
Patent white
White lead ""
Red l#ad J ! IIIC
Colcothar -vitriol 1 m ,
160 bundles Sheathing paper , Cl ,
1 Seaming tw ne phi
Ship DIANA, tiiC
i For Sale or Charter.
' W \ ALJ O,
Brig Amazon.
N. B. I'lie late firm of Philip Nioklin-£Sf Co. Li
- ib now clMinnfd to - - "
NICKLIN & GRIFFITH. P"
• 1. _
For Savannah,
: TO SAIL THE FIRST OPENING,
, , The faft failing ship
J SWIFT PACKET,
Patkick Gribben, Master,
1 NOW lying the firft *harf below 1
=® c, Street—has handsome ac- *
commodations for passengers—For freight or pas- 6r
- face apply to the Master onboard, or to tui
; N. & J- Frazer, bo
e No. 95, South Front Street.
I Who have on hand, and for Salt, '
Prime Rice, in whole and half tierces, Georgia
it and Carolina Isdigo, Molasses in hhds, Teneriffe
wine, &c. &c in
December 27 3tawtf. W
1 t or Charleston, ge
• THE SHIP
VENUS,
a' Cl " : will take F*«ighton vety
* O low terms, and fail the firft
opening. Apply to the master on board, or to
70S. Anthony & Co. J
Detembcr 18 ■ ~ §-
» For Amsterdam,
ir wa The Ship
FARMER, -
; John M'Coxlom, Master;
WILL fail in a few days, the
ter part of her cargo being r
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or pas-
fage, apply to tlie master on board, at Walnut- a!
'' street wharf, or to V
JOHN SAVAGE. ft
Who is Binding, out of the said Ship, from Bour- o:
t. deaux, and For Sale,
Claret in hhds. a
White Wine in quarter caD:s 0
Claret in cases, of a superior quality q
Fontiniac, T n
th Sauterne, > Wines in cases c
at Lunille, ) a
ry Prunes in boxes
~ november 24. \
For Londonderry,
g" - THE BRIGANTINE
F 16g&S& S u KEY,
K William Written, Master.
„d V&MgSRgT'' A strong good veflel, about two
es, hundred tens, to fail with all con venient ipeed, a
of great part of her Cargo engaged—now lying at
to, Willing and Francis's whaif. For freight or pas- c
sage, apply to the captain, or
JOHN SKYRIN, [
LartdeNbcrger'i nubarf.
Who wants to Charter.
A Vessel of about three hundred tons.
nov ! 8. §
n ry For Sale Or Charter, (
ci- -•—j,.. The Snow 1
eft Ml&j GOOD hope, ;
cal Will carry about x too-barrels, and
, re >3 ready to take in a cargo. For terms
id Pragers & Co.
J'' No. 151, South Second-street.
lon Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar and 1
™. e Rntn, Madeira, Liflion, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7. dtf. 1
iie» For Savannah, in Georgia,
'.° THE SHIP
TJ- Sally Butler,
rti " Captain Cms holm,
\A new veflel, with excellent
i accommodations for passengers
Sails on the ioth of December. For Freight or
Passage, apply to ROS3 15* SI MSG N.
IVho have to difpqfe of,
ied, A small invoice ot GLAUBER SALTS
re- INDIGO, and a parcel of HOXiLY WOOD.
of november tB. 5
°£ Imported in the brig Eliza,
s pf. Capt. Hastie, from Bourdeaux ;
on- Claret in t'afes of a very superior quality,
her White Sauterne Wine in Cases,
in- Olive Oil in bafceti of is bottles each,
White and coloured Kid Gloves,
do. do. Silk do.
for A few pipes of Bourdeau* Brandy,
j For Sale by
! u JAMES I ATIMFR. jun.
°'" 7i,South Wharves.
Who has also for Sale,
s. A few qr. Calks Old Sherry W^ne.
" Dec. j. diw
Salisbury Estate. W
THE Subscriber, prcrpjGxi£ to Hi* bnfi
/cl*, offers dm Ethte for sale, on moderate ■» i
ttrpu. On it are one Bmttar.d three Air Furnaces, y*
a complete Borctng Machiae, and a very Ijood grift to t
■Milt, wah. two jp»ir oi stones ; a good Forge, *ll Arl
in pericfl repair, at are all th# Water Work* cpnnett
ed with variooi branches. The Air Furnaces
wire lately built for the purpqfe oi .eafiiM Caßnyfl ,
lor this State.—l here a;e about two tnouiand «err»
of Land, one halt ol d, tt\* other et
very fine arable Land, producing the ficft Hay and or 1
Pad Lire. The Cannon lately mannladured tbrrf-, r «F
fully proves the excellency at the metal, which is the
luperior to any in this country; and probably, equal ctai
to any in the world ; for not one ot fixtv-nine gdns ntiti
lately made, although tome of thf n wsre bored 7
into gi pounders, have Failed on proving. Ttiefiiu- the
: ation is very eligible, pa»ticularly for this branch ol be i
manufacture, and a place of arm? lying iatheffatc ed 1
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from several laod ig,)j
jugs on the Hudson's river, and having every advan- a |f o
tige that can result from a plenty of water issuing t j
from a Urge naturabpond, very near tbe Furnacej M-I
and which may be converted ineo a variety ot orticf j,
ufefiil purposes. The purchater can be accommodat. ,
ed wi'H all the lloek andotenfils, and have pofleffion
onor betoie the fir ft of JuneneW, and prepar tion
maybe made in the meat 1 line fpr going into Blast ira- __J
j mediately thereafter, for every pait will be delivered
l in good order, with fame coal, Ore, &c. For qq
I terms, apply ta Mr. ]ofeph Antiv,ny, 111 Philadel
| phia; David Brqoks, E(q. one of the RcprefentaMvcj
lin Congress tor this State ; Mr, David Waterman, on A
I tbe piemtles, or to the proptietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
! Dee. t. . 3 a »? lf U a
N OTIC E. •/,
mo
ALL persons who have any Remands agjinft re
th.-ehaft ps WjUam Flkfwto/id, of > o '
Liverpool, lafe of Philadelphia, merchant, de
.ccaied, arc re<juefted to fexhibit their accruints,
properly attcActi ; and thuic who are indebted
to the fame, are deGred 'to make immediale
payment, to
XT OE ?- DOBSON, I Admini/tr'r- J
No. 15, So. Thtrd-llreet. 5 ,hc
January 4. V
DANCING SCHOOL. L
__ dre
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL presents his n* l
moil rcfpe.-lful compliments to his form- :i "°
. 6r employers and the citizens in general, a»d re
turns his molt grateful thanks, for the very
bountiful encouragemeut ht has experienced for
these twenty-five years past, takes this opportu-
nity of informing them> that his school is now 6
open, at his ca {
! Elegant Ball Room, zet
in South Fourth-Street, between Chefnut and alf
Walr.ut-ftreets. To begin at 10 in the morning tia:
for young ladies, and 6in the evening for young fay
gentlemen.
Dec. 8. aawtf.
For Sale by the Subscribers,
, Prime Rice In whole and half tierces N.
f Baut deaux Brandy
t Tenerijje Wine
0 MolaJJes
Georgia and Carolina Indigo . At
Ravens Duck and one bogjhead of faiit sol
- brujhes.
N. & J. Frazer.
No. qs,Sonthi Front Street. an
Nov. 7. dim.
House and Lots, in Bar dent own. ofi
% f T'O BE SOLD, a handsome two story Houfc.
f- JL with the Lot on which it is ere&ed, situated jyj
t- about the middle of the beautiful and healthy a .
Village of feordentown. The heufe is forty two ce
feet front, and in neat order The lot contains
r _ one acre, and is one hundred feet on the main
dreet, and extends with the'fame hreadth tobaek
itreet. Alf°, a Let, containing nearly four
acres, feparatcd trom the former by back lirleet.
One third only of the pur chafe money will be re* L
quired upon executing a deed, and for the re- P_
raainder, such credit will he given as the {Surchafe
er may chufe. -This property will be fold free «-
all incumbrances* end an indisputable title giveuf
For further particulars enquire either of Dr. N
William Burnes, residing in Bordcntowc, near. /
~ the premises, who will shew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON, E
Conveyancer, n». 144» Market-street. n
December i. .V ai
Employment fpr the Poor.
—> v
V " FLAX for SPINNING,
at To be given out every second, fourth, and fmth
if- day morning, between the hours of 10 And 12
back of no. s*, feuth l ifth street, ahove Spr«ce
ftreet. eodtw f
Prison M anufadiory.
FOR SALE,
At the Prison of the City and County of Piiiladel
phia,
Cut Nails of all sizes, from 3dy to 2ody
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwood
, Shoemakers and Sadl'.rs Thread
Also Sawed Marble, fuitablc for currier's tables, I
m ' tomb and heao Rones, hearths, chimney pieces, 1
platforms, slabs, lacia, window heais, fills, c . J
All which may he had on reasonable terms, e
Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at a
ind a moderate price.
Orders from a dillance, direited to Daniel Tho- (
ma», agent for the prison, will be attended to. t
December 26 *__ mth6m <
Imported inthefIiipMANCHESTER, !
Benjamin Shewell, Master,
From Bourdeaux, and for fale'oy the subscriber,
No. 11. Walnut Street,
ent Bonrdeaux Brandy "1 '
s — Irish market claret in cases ( Entitled to -
or Medoc wine, in do. f Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J .
Thomas Murgatroyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
1 Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter caflcs
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 buthels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
" TO LET,
A front Parlour, suitable for
an Office j a Room, iumiibed or unfurnilhad ; and
a large Cellar, which will serve either for storage
s- or a bottling cellar. Enquire at no. S4, South
Fifth-ftreet.
Boar Jing and Lording to 1 e had- Enquire as a
ove. Jan 6.—*^t
[Volume XKI.
War-Office of the United State?,
January the \Ji, I jyß.
" "IT7TIEREAS frauds hayc beeu pra&ifcd, in
'• VV obtaining V?a:raoti for Bounty Lands, due
. to the Officers and Soldiersof tb« iare Coctincrtat
Army, by the protluAiou of forged iiiftrumclits.
v 'i> elie.ck in futurj fu;h inpoGtions, it has been
thought arlvlfcable ; tht«*U persons, baying claims
t for bounty tands, whether in tbeir own right, as
r legal ! C|ir«fei!taii\V, <t by virtue of «uy inftruaicnt
j or deed of transfer, be retjtv<r<:d to forward their
t refpedive claims to the War Office, on or before
s the d«y of January 1799 in order that such
I claiuu may be miljr examined, adjailcd and deter
s mined upon.
i To feibftantiaSe such claims, afUid obftrvapce ol
- the rules heretofore issued from the War Office will
f be indispensable ; and in addition to what is require
c ed by the said rules, th« certificate of the acknow
ledgement of a Deed or Power of Attorney, mull
" alio set forth the place of residence and occupation
* of the claimant or person makingfuch acknowledge
J men t; and when the pi oof of per (on a 1 knowledge
is by a witntfs or witnelfes, their place or places of
residence mull be set forth in like manner
„ JAMES M'HENRY, Sec'y of War.
Jan. 7. d6w
i FOR THE CURE OF
r COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, CON
, SUMPTIONS,
II And all d'iforders of ih( Brcajl and lings'.
Church's Cough Drops
Is a medicine unequalled by any in tbe world.
CERTI FIC.ST&.
" I hereby certify, that 1 have been cured of a
most ievere Cough, Cold, and violent pain in my
ft brea!) t by taking only a few doffs ol Dr. Cut sen's
( f Cough Drops. QHAKL.JES BEVANS,"
bail Maket , Spruce street whaff, Philadelphia.
,J From a London Paper.
To Dr. CHURCH.
SIR,
Having been recently refloTed from tbe brink of
the grave, by your invaluable medicine, 1 think it
r»y duty to make this public acknowledgment of
the fame, for the benefit of others afflided with a
similar complaint. ° I had been afllidlcd with a iinltk
dreadful allhma for about twenty-three years. I
; s never for years got any reft, my cough was so ,
~ troublefoir.e in the night; *nd used to discharge an
almost incredibU quantity of glutinous matter
from my lungs ; and my breath was so exceeding
)r ftiort that I could not walk across my room. Pro
videntially hearing of your Cough Drops, I took
them ; and, through taking them alone, I am now,
w bUffed be God ! restored to perfed health. My
cafe is w«ll known to the members of the Ebene
zer Chapel, in Lincoln's-lnn-Field, of which 1 am
d also a member ; and any of them will gladly fa
g tiasy any inquiry concerning the truth of what I
g fay. I am, Sir, yonr grateful servant,
NATHANIEL LANGWORTHY,
No. 8, Smith's-court, Great Windmill-ftrcet,
~ Hay-market.
Witncfo,
N. Langwohthv, jun.No. 40,
__ Pultney-ftrtet, Golden-square.
CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS
Are prepared and fold (only) by the inventor and
it sole proprietor, Dr. James Church, at his Medi
cine Store, No. I South Third-street, next the Mar
ket, Philadelphia; and by appointment, at New-
York, by Messrs. Staples and Co. 169 Pearl-street,
and Miss Wedman, 11 a William-street.
Dr. Church may be consulted every day, at hij
office, 158 South Front-flreet, Philada'phia.
January 9. 3aw.qw
re. £? The owners of the Brigantine
cd Mercury, Wi'.liam Uron, matter, captured by
I >' a Spaniih privateer and fold at Ceuta in last De
'° cember, may receive interesting information res
"9 peding.her, by applying to the Department oF
ek Stat< '-
ur * * P r ' nters in the sea-port towns of
, t the United States will render a fervicr to the
c _ concerned, hy inserting the above iu tbeir newf
e- pipers. Jan- 3..
»fe FOR SALE, '
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
)r. No. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front streets,
» r - A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Atfo, a general assortment of Tools,
Eiles and Materials, cosfifting of Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hour brass piuions
and Urge work ; Bells, clock and watch Dials,
Springs, Hands, Glasses, Pumice Stone, Emery,
Rotten Stone, Cat Gut; bench, Hand and tail
Vices; Turns, Pliers,Chains,Seals,Keys, ice. &c.
* % * Apprentices Wanted.
"'h november 3. f&tutf
ce- Landing this day,
' — From on boar-d the schooner Two Friends, Dan
iel Crawley, Matter,
'""I Jamaica RUM,
kj FOR SALS BV
George Latimer Es° Son.
tiowmher 9.
3 FOR SALE, at
Wm, Young's Book Store,
lies, No. J3, Second flreet, the corner of Chefnut ftrest,
ces , "I) EPORT of the Committee of the Houte of
c . lx. Representatives of the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
1 at against \"ILLI 4M BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeached of high crimes and mis.
'ho- demeanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of
the Houfeof Representatives, authorizing the said
n Committee to fit during the recefi of Congress, and
inftruding them "to enquire, and, by all lawful
■ R J " means, todifcever the whole nature and ext lit
" of the offence whereof the laid William Blour.t
oer, " stands impeache.i, and who are the parties and
" associates therein."
Printed by order of the House of Representatives.
December so §
NOTICE."
To holders of "JAMES GREENLEAF't
and ED IVARD oK's Engagements
IN consequence of many having been prevent
ed, from late unavoidable i ircumllances from
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. The Trustees now inform them, they
are ready to iflue the fame to those who may ap
_ ply within fijety days, at No. 8 Chefnut Street,
and those who do not, will be confidercd as re
linquilhing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
[Or provided for their payment,
and HENRY PRATT,
rage THC MAS W. FRANCIS,
outh JOHN MILLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
as a- JACOB BAKER,
December 15. d6ct
«NKW-TH KATRH-.
ON WEDNESDAY EVENING,
JANUARY 17,
Will be prefcr-ed, she ca'e.Vi'ed Coniedy of
A Ciue for the Heart Ache,
To which will'be added*
iNyypoiLi CHH.I).
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal
Company,
January I "]th,
An adjourned , meeting <>f the Stockholder#
will be held at the Company's cflice oi» Fti'lay
next, 6 o'clock in the evening, on butinefc of
»in» o**fsnne. djt
The Members
OF the Society of the Sons of St. George, esta
blish.d Philadelphia, for the advice ar.d ailiftance
of ia diftrif-*, arc rcqueftei to attend
a Quarterly Meeting of the fai^Socie* y at the City
Tavern, on Tuesday th« 13d inft at 5 o'clock in
th* aft- rnoon. GEORGE DAVIS, Sec*ry.
. ?t
For freight or Charter,
To any Port in Europe,
anJforty-oRe tens
lunhcn—Staunch and well bailt, and fails fall.—
For terms apply to
Joseph Anthony bf Co.
(arnary 17 §jw
The Subscriber
INFORMS thofj whom it may intercft or con
cern, rhac the Judge# of the Ceurt of Common
Pleas have Monday, the nineteenth day of
February next to hear him an 3 hig Creditors, at the
Court-h< use in this city, on the fuhjed of his pcti
tten for the of the Infolveilt Law—and
that thtir atrcnrlance if desired.
JAMES GREENLtAF.
Philadelphia, Jan. 16. dtl9thF
Philadelphia & Lancaster Turn
pike Company.
January 4, 1798.'
At a meeting of the P reft dent and Managers,
this day ndi vidend of j dollars per Jhare was
declared f*r thelaj} half year, which will be by
' -them retained, f»r the payment of the debts of
the Company, agreeable too resolution eftheStock
holders the T ith 7'' C /<•■//.
TENCH FRANCIS, Treasurer
Of the Philadelphia Lancofler iwnptKe Ccm'py.
January 8 misf W4-W
W. Haydon,
Delineator of Drawing—-from London,
(Where he has Itudied several years under ona of
th« most eminent matters in t: at science)
INFORMS his friend*, thj' he has re-commenc
ej hi« private tuition. — Terms, as usual, Sir.
Dollars per month, for attendance three times a
9 week. Likewift', al! kinds of Ornamental Paint
ing, fruit, fiow . -i, &c. taught on the above terms.
W. H. flattei»himfelf his terms will he particu
larly 'advantag;obs to th fe that employ him, as
he niikes no a l 'itional charge if there are two
pupils in one family.
A line diredled to W. H. left at the office of this
Gszette, will be immediately attended to.
Janu iy9- Jaw
To Be Sold,
AGP.EEABLV ttjTfiCTSlf will and te(lj.ment of
WitLiAM HtvSBAM, decealVd, and pafl f
fion give n immediately, a variable property in Arch
street, between Third and Fourth eets, confid
ing of the house, No. 107, with the lot on which
it is ercfitd, a ftaM»_, and other improvements
The houf< is jo feet front, and contains ten good
apjrtm*r.:s. The lot is of the fame breadth as the
house and JO9 feet deep, with a well of water and
a very capacious walled cistern, both with
repair. The (table stands on the rear of
the lot and will accommodate four horses and a car
riage. This property enjoys the perpetualjjrivilege
of a 46 feet court andan alley, 8 feet wide,extend
ing to Chfrry Street. Its central position and the
advantages it possesses with refpeift to free ventila
tion, rend«i> it well worthy the attention of any
person wilhing to possess an eligible property in Phi
ladelphia,
For further particulars enquire at No 88, Vine
Street—of
Robert Hiysham,
or > Adling Executors.
Francis Bowis Sayre, j
January 11 §
~~ FOR SALE,
By JOHN MILLER, ;un. Co.
No 8, Ch.lnut-ftreet,
One hundred and eighty bales
BENGAL GOODS,
/ mongft which are,
Gurrahs fvlamoodies
Pa.'tas Sanrj;.s
Gusx nah v s TamUCoffacs
Guzzlt.s Emertics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palainpoors % Romall Handkctchiefs
Amongst them are a great proportion of the
manufactures of Patna.
December I. §
To be Kxchangec? for
1 Brilijh, German, or India Goods,
!N THE PACKAGE ;
A trafl of -valuable Land
In Lycoming, joining that of the Holland co.
and containing 10,000 Arres.
Inquire of the Printer.
Jan. 1?. $
Just Published,
And to be had at the Book-ftorei of Mtffrs. Doe
son, 4_Aki pbeli , Yoono and Ohmhod,
in Philaddphia.
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caufcs and Cure of Remitting or Bilious
, Fevers.
To vtbub it annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and pradliee of
different authors : and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interesting fa<9sand reflexions relative to
tht Synoicut ISerciJej, or Yellow Fever, which
liai occsfioned so much dirtrefsand mortality, at
different periods, in several of the fcaport towns
of the United State, of America.
BY WILLIAM CURRIE,
Feltxwof tht? Philadelphia ColUge of Physicians,
and Member of the American Philosophical So
cicty, fcc. • 3ra j
All Perlons
Having any demands agarnft the Ettale of the
late Captain George Irwin, are requcfled to
bring in their accounts pioperly attelted, on or
befone the firft day of January next tnfuing
and thole who are indebted to said estate are so
licited to make immediate payment to
SARAH IRWIN, Administratrix.
noy. iQ 1797. 6
OVAL BOTTLES.
Quart and half gallon in crates—and a quanti
ty of Claret Bo:tlcs of a right size—For Tale at
No. i 3, Church Alley. JOHN DORSEY.
Jauuiry la jtaw6w.
Xfje <smttz.
ILL L. ——-5J 1 I). ~
PHILADELPHIA,
' WEPMESDAY EVENING, JANUART 17.
' COMMUNIC.I riOH.
'• If i fubmiflion to the laws, is a charac
reriftic of good' citizenship, if heavy bur
ftens are submitted to from the mod patri
otic moves, the merchants of are
certainly entitled to protection from their
government.
The faft is, they are f<> quiet a set of
people, that were it not for news-pr.per pub
lications, their fiifferings wohIJ not be
known to the community ; *nd tho' com
merce is foundation and support of our
whole revenue fyflem, yet are tht mer
chants fuffered to be plundered by row boats
and canoei, to pay extravagant premiums
of insurance, and reduced to the degrading
situation of foKciting or paying Britiih crui
zers for the proteftiorv of their veflels. At
this moment, when arrivals from China and
India, with cargoes of an immense value
may soon be expe&ed, when many of our
vessels are beating on our coasts, when a
large and valuable fleet only waits the open
ing of the navigation, our rulers are deba
ting upon pafil expenditures, and refufing a
paltry appropriation for completing our fri
gates which would afford an immediate pro
teflion—The very money expended in idle
' i debate would do the business, as the sum
j necessary Would scarcely exceed the differ
ence of premium paid between convoy or no
convoy, which to an English port in Hif
paniola, is 8 to 10 per cent.
The fate of our commiflioners is now too
well known, and let the disgrace of preven
ting defenfive armaments, be ascribed to.the
misguided and impolitic zeal of Frenchified
Americans, who, regardless of the trup
interests of America, or from pulillanimous
or worse motives, c!»g the wheels our
government. An enquiry into the expen
ditures for the frigates may be inftitutedat
ar,y moment of leirure ; no doubt remains
of their being immense, extravagant, and I
may add (hameful, but when all is done but
a few tboufand dollars : Is the question now
to be, " whether to grant this addition, or
to go into an enquiry into Mr. Francis's ac
counts—No ; rather let us in onefolitary in
fiance follow the example of our dear fifier
France ( which has kicked our ministers) and
give the frigates to the merchants, or if that
will give offence to Mr. Bar,as let the mer
chants arm their own (hips.
MR. TKNNO,
The following ex traft from a late publi
cation intitled " a journey over land to In
dia, by Campbell." is so applicable at the
preient moment, as induced me to trauf
cribe it for your paper : had Mr. Campbell
travelled in America, he would have found
those citizens of the world, called democrats,
not so thinly fo-wn, and that such characters
hold (not confidential but) lucrative offices
in our government.
" I have, in the course of my life met
with many people, who, under the plausi
ble pretext of liberality and greatness of
mind, have called themselves citizens of the
world, and declared that the country where
they lived, be that what country it might,
was theirs and demanded their allegiance
and protection : but I have always shrewd
ly fufpefted, that such men aft from a con
sciousness of being outcasts of their own
country—and scorned or rejected by their
fellow citizens, would retaliate Jby affe&ing
to deny their natural attachment.
" There are men who neither love father,
moth:r, filter, brother or connexion : such
however, are, thank God, very thinly sown
in this world ; bat except it be a few such
unnatural people, lam convinced that there
is no one whose heart does not confefs the
patriotic paflion, and burn with a flame
more or less ardent of love for his country.
My predilections that way 'are naturally
strong, and I am now happy to refledt that
I evinced them by the most unequivocal
proofs ; had I not, I were indeed, in my
own opinion, fit for any punifliment howev
er ignominious ; and to all such as lift their
arms against their country, I will fay in the
words of tfte poet,
" XrOtrfrty r.orc~—aiu,uUn all mcmcrji .
" On horrors heady horrors accumulate ;
11 V° fed* mat* beav n weep—all earth amaz'Ji
bor nothing can J! tbou to damnation add y
" Greater than that.""
Mr. Fenno,
One of your brethren of the type lately put
into my hands a publication entitled " Young's
Eflays on interesting fubjefla" for perusal, with
a request that I would give him my sentiments
on the probability of its being generally bought
by the reading part rtf the community—l read
it with increasing pleafore as I proceeded, and
when flnifhed, 1 returned it with this answer,
th3t if the book were generally read, it would
probably be the belt antidote that his yet ap
pea red to ttie poifrifi of the modern political,
deiftical philosophy which is making as great a
ravage in the moral, as the inhuman war now
raging in Europe, does in th-i natural world ;
that if he printed it I would take a dozen or
two to fend to my country sri ends ; but know
ing how little, how much less attention is paid
by the friends of order and good government
to the propagation of their principles, than by
their adversaries the anarchists, I feared to giye
him more encouragement.—Whether he will
go on * ith it or not, will probably depend on
the advice of other fricmls whom he may con-
Cult ; but I could uut forbear asking his leave to
take a t w txlrafts,one ofwhich I now inclose,
and if you ftould shew your approbation of it,
as I hope you will, by an early nfertion of it in
your paper, I ft;ll fend you some more
of the lame, but not so long or so frequently
as to overload y.uir paper, or foreftall the pro- .
posed edition. 'Vours, &c. .
A SUBSCRIBER.
Extract from feting'j EJJdys on intending ful*
je/ts.
fclTav on govcrnm.ni in general, and the fub
jeclion which chrillians owe to the powers
that he. r
" I" this enlightened age, few will call in
quiflica the truth of that important maxim, that
all power ami authority art radi.aUj in the peo
pie I hope few «-i» <^ r dl 'P" tc 11 t ' me
cope- ycapk om,.u,n h» an undouto
edwshtJjP choose and eretf phat form of gov
ernment the, fiad mo ft Wenmtt' »d to
triift tke aa.niniltrat.ou of it; to what hanrf,
they please ; and in this right every individual
hl7hi, (hire. Bin from this maxim, if not
rightly ijfderftood, we *uy Hnw cone ufions
which the premifc wiM not hear ; eonclufiott
which neither consist with truA, nor wit., the
peace arid well-being of society. A tew of them
may be pointed out.
« pifjt. i t doe» not hence f>!low that all gov
ernmer.ts have been anally <ct up by the ge
neral v«ice of the people, or even with their
universal coufeut. Though in point of th»ory,
the people's ripht cannot be denied ; yet it is
plain froiji what has |)een said, that in fail, this
right hasf'eldom been exerciled or ev< u claimed
in the erection $f any government. In rnofl na
tions of ftw world, th<f people never to this
dreamed that they had such a right; and how
fliould they exercise it! Even wl'ere h<* been
experienf ed, it cannot be fiipppfed. rata vhole
nation was ever unanimous in their choice
Some individual* wot>ld always have preferred
a different form of government, would rath
er have employed other hands in the admimf
tration ef it. But it would be absurd to suppose
that this minority,.becauff they did not actual
ly concur in erefling the government, should
enjoy the benefit of its protection, without be
ing obliged to submit to its author ity, or to con
tributes its support.
"2d. It does not follow, that it is mall for
the benefit of society that the people should re
tain the exercise of that power, or any conside
rable part of it, in tl%ir own hands. To govern
a nation mult require talents, education and ex
perience, beyond what nfually falls to the lot ot
those in the subordinate ranks of life, in the most
enlightened nation in the world. Common peo
ple may Speculate about affairs of Rate at their
fire fide; but the weight ®f government is top
heavy for their (houlders. Were our belt coun
try politician placed at tha helm of public af
fairs, he would soon find himfelf unequal to the
talk. Neither would this be remedied by em
ploying a great number of such persons in the
business; as the diversity of their opinions would
add to the confufion and embarrassment. A
man must lerye an apprenticelhip before he be
qualified to govern nations without any instruc
tion in the art. Is the&ience of politics more
fimple,or more easily inquired than an ordinary
handicraft ? Or is it eafler to managt affairs of
state than to make a pair of (hoes ? Every man
surely has a right to choose bis own shoemaker j
but will that man a<ft wifely who (hall employ
one for that purpose who never knew how to
brittle a thread ? Yea, every man has a right, if
he pleases, to make his own Ihoes ; but are the
rights of man violated by his wearing (hoes of
another man's making ? In like manner, tho'
all power belongs radically to the people, their
right is n#t violated by tommilting the adlual
exercise of their power into the hands of a few ;
and the sooner the body of the people dived
themfelveJ of that pfTwer, if it i» intruded in
proper hands, the better.
"3d. It doss not follow from this maxim,
that after a particular form of government hßs
been set up, with the consent of the body of the
people, that the people have a right to abolifli
it, and set up another, as often as they please.
It has been pleaded by the friends of liberty, and
no true friend of liberty will deny it s that all
government n founded upon a mutual
between rulers and people j and that such a
compact, eilher express or implicit, subsists
wherever there is a lawful government Now
it is plain «o every rational understanding, that
neither party has a right to tweak or dissolve any
contrail without the confi»nt of the other. —
Hence it has been arg,ued with justice, that
when kings or other rulers violate that origiual
compact, they forfait their right to govern ;
the people may displace and even punish them.
But may it not be argued with equa justice,
that if the people, or any part of them, violate
the compact on their part and refufe to fulfil
their flipulations to governmentthen govern
ment has a right to consider them as having for
feited its ptote<2ion, and to punish them. Un
less this d«Slrine is admitted and reduced to
praftice, there can never be ltrength or liability
in any government.
JVe (hall be told that " rulers were made for
the people and not the people for them ; jhat
they are but servants of the public ; and that
every man has a right to dismiss his servants
whenhepleafes." True, rtiagiftrates are servants
of the /late, or if you please, of the people, and
were made rulers for the people's good. But
as the people are not Haves to their rulers, so
neither are rulers (laves to the people They
serve by contrail."
C 0 N G R ESS.
HOUSE QF REPRESENTATIVES.
MONDAY JANUARY I£.
(Continuation of the Debate on granting fur
ther appropriahtnsfor the Frigates.)
Mr. Livingfton said, from the full dif
cuflTon of this fabjedt, which, though inci
dentally produced, had taken place on a
former occasion, he did not think it would
either have been becoming, or neceflary, to
have again stated the retifous which gave rife
to this resolution, especially as he felt an a
version to fay any thing which might be un
neceflary, or which might tire those who
heard him. Mr. L. said, that he had be
fore observed that the patience of the house
had been worn out by the repeated applica
tions which had been made for money for
this objedt; that the expence had exceeded
all belief; that the most extended imagina
tion could not have conceivedan amount like
that which Congress had from time t« time
been blindly led to appropriate. But the
proposition was objefted to, because it would
call an odium upon our officers. This he
was perfectly indifferent about. Whatever
might be the private opinion he had of the
charaiSers of these officers-; however inca
pable he might believe them of doitlg wrong,
or of afting corruptly, yet, when l.is duty
called upon him to make an enquiry into
the expenditu re of public money, he was
deaf to all confederations ofa personal nature.
But, u» this cafe he did not fee the necessi
ty for this remark. The house had been
told (he believed by the gentleman from S.
Carolina himl^lf) that the extraordinary ex
pence had bein occalioned by our inexperi
ence in business of this kipd, by the high
price of labour, materials,' &c. If this
were the cafe, the result of the enquiry
would be honorable to those concerned,
highly fatisfadtory to the house. It was a
proceeding which our public officers ought
to wish for ; nay, gentlemen fay, they°do
wi(h for it.
But Mr. Li. said it had been aliedged,
that the statements ordered a year ago to be
laid before the house during the firft week
in this month, should be waited for, before
any enquiry took place. He would reply,
if tliefe officers had n«t in the mean time,
ABed upon the'houfe for a frefh supply of
money, this enquiry would not have been
thought of. BeGdes, the accounts asked
fer the lall year, would not give the latis
faction required. The requell only extend
ed to all the expenditures previous to the Ift
of January 1797. The house would wish
to knovv what had heen expended since, and
they had no reason to expedl further infor
mation than was asked for. Mr. L. said
every member who was present at the time,
mull remember that whenever the house had
been applied to for farther appropriations,
tfiey had. heen-Luld iiiiU the frigates would
be ready for sea at such and such a time ;
and that they would then bear our flag tri
umphantly over the ocean. And yet, tho'
the house had been fourQr five times deceiv
ed by these representations, they were told
there was no ground for enquiry. For his
part, he should consider himfelf as negledting
his duty, were he not to call for this enqui
ry immediately ; for if .the house were to
wait a week for the statements called for,
they might wait anotherfor their beingprint
ed; they might then be found deficient,
frefh statements might be neceflary, and the
session might expire, without effe&ing the
wished for enquiry. He thought all parts
of the house ought to favour the enquiry ;
for, he believed, if it should appear that
frigates could not be built for less than
500,000 dollars a piece, the projedl of a
Navy ought to be given up ; but if, on the
other hand,-difficulties and had
occurred in the commencement of this busi
ness, which would not return, and that fri
gates may in future be built for half the
sum (which was his opinion) there would
be some encouragement to proceed in the
business.
Mr. Sewall was sorry that the gentleman
from S. Carolina (Mr. Harper) had given
the occasion, and that the gentleman lalt up
had so eagerly seized it, to thwart any mea
sures which might be neceflary for the gen
eral defence, by ridiculing the refourees of
the country. The present, he said, was a
time of danger and apprehension, and thus
to talk of the refourees of the United States
added to the apprehension and the danger.
The gentleman from S. Carolina had said,
that to pass this resolution, would be to pass'
an odium upon our public officers. He did
not think so. He thought an enquiry of
thi3 kind at all times proper, where there
was any doubt as to the expenditure of mo
ney. He agreed with the gentleman from
New-York, that the enquiry (if it had a
favorable iflue, which he did not doubt)
would forward the design of providing a na
vy ; as it would appear that the extraordi
nary expence? had been such as it would not
"be neceflary to incur in future. He was
therefore, sorry to hear the gentleman firft
up (Mr. Williams) fay he should be disin
clined to vote any further appropriation, un
til he saw how the last had been expended.
However improvidently the money already
appropriated had been expended, yet, in
order to secure what had been voted, and
to keep the work in progress, they ought
to vote a further sum, as soon as wanted,
whether the statements called for were re
ceived er not.
Mr. Livingfton desired to know wherein
he had attempted to ridicule the refourees
of this country ? The gentleman from Mas
sachusetts must excuse him when he affected
he had never made a more hasty or unfound
ed charge. If he had either ridiculed the
refourees, or thwarted any measures for the
general defence of thq United States, it
must have arisen from a weak judgment, and
not from any intention of doing so. But
he was certain nothing had fallen from him
which could be so construed. *'
Mr. Sewall acquitted the gentleman from
I New-York from any intention of lowering
the appearance of the refourees of this coun
try ; but he appealed to the house whether 1
he had not spoken of this fleet with a de
gree of ridicule, when he represented it as
governing the ocean. It appeared so to him,
.at least.
Mr. Harper again insisted upon the im
propriety of going into thismeafure, from
reasons similar tothofe which he had already
given.
Mr. Gallatin said, that the groynd taken
by the gentleman from S. Carolina (Mr.
Harper) would prevent any enquiry what
ever ; for he stated, that the house ought .
not to pass the present resolution because
certain statements had not been received,
and because to pass it would be to imply a
censure on our officers. So that, on this
ground 110 enquiry could be gone into with
out statements,. as the house could not ob
tain statements without passing a resolution,
that resolution would be construed into a
censure, and therefore ought not to be pas
sed. This, Mr. G. thought a very impro- I
per dodtrine. It would never be in the pow
er of the house to decide upon the propri
ety of statements by barely hav!ng them
l?id upon the table. The proper mode was
to appoint a committee to enquire into the
.fubjedl, and an appointment of this kind
never ought to be cotiflrued into a censure
upon any one. He agreed with the gen
tleman from Maflachufetts, that the propo
sed enquiry might favour the extension of
the navy eftablilhraent, if the extraordinary
expence Ihould appear to have been tempo
rary and unavoidable ; but he owned this
was not his only objed in wishing for the
enquiry. He could not help drawing con
clusions from the information which he re
ceived ; and the conclusions which he had
drawn frotnthis information was, that either
the officers who had made the different state
ments with refped to the expence of finifh
ing the frigates which had been said before
the honfe, had either deceived them, or the
expenditure of the money had been mifma
ged. He might be as this was
only conjecture. He wished the enquiry
to take place, therefore, that this fufpicidm
i— I" 1794. he said, they were trfM.u
: 688,000 dollars would be fuffir'
there had been a mistake \ n tK , r med
but that with 80,000 d o ll 4rs h l bU,,n f S '
would be finifhed. In January 17 * T
' house was again called upon for
dollars ; in July in the W l^ 2 '? 0
200,000, and now f or 1 ?0 OQ( ? * ' tor
i M , r - ?' f C Vi ° nclud , c db y fa ying, that he a
| greed with the gentleman from MafTachufetu
)v i sto n t ic,iie ihe "fo arc
| of th« United States ; but that gentW,,
jmuft agree »th him that it was ofi rapor
tance that the pubhc should be well
med as to the expenditure of pub l i(; mo " ,
that a judgment might be formed whether
our resources were properly applied, or whe
ther they were employed upon objefts w h; ch "
could never be of any real utility to th
country, or upon objeds which might tend
to weaken, rather than to strengthen u -
This enquiry, he expeded would in s om *
degree, give a declfion to this question, as ; t
would shew whether the great expence which
had been incurred, was unavoidable in a bu
finefs of this kind, or whether it had been
owing to temporary causes only. It tou ld
not be wrong, Mr. G.'faid, at any time > 0
explain to the people of' the United 4 States
what their resources ; this could do nc> harm
but good—it was of the firft importance
that, in this refped, as well as others, the
truth fliould appear He hoped, therefore 6
the resolution would be agreed to.
Mr, Dana was in favoy.r of the enquiry
forfomeofthe reasons which had been affiga'
ed by the gentleman lad up ; and he fhsuld
not have spoken upon the fubjett. had he
not thought the remarks which had fallen
from the gentleman from New-York and
Pennsylvania upon our public offirft;, de
serving of notice. He did not know that it
was necessary for the gentleman from Penn
sylvania to mention his suspicions that our
officers had deceived the House of Repre
sentatives in their ftatemcnts, which he ac
knowledged was founded only upon conjeft
ure. He had observed several other insinua
tions which must be painful to our officers.
He could have wi(hed that no ebje&ion
been made to this enquiry; tho perhaps, it
might have a good effeft, since it had given
gentlemen an opportunity of fpeakiag their
own eulogy, which would doubtless" more
than compensate any pain which their sus
picions might give to deserving officers.
Mr. Venable wished something to be said
in this resolution as to the time which had
been consumed in building the frigates, as
well as to the expence incurred. He there
fore, moved to amend the resolution, by ad
ding " also the causes which have produced
the delay in finifhing the fa me."
The motion wa3 agreed to wlthont a di
vision, and a conurrittee of five appointed.
A new petj'tron was presented from Anna
Wel(h.„ r. ■
On motion of Mr. Williams, the house
again resolved itfelf into a committee of the
whole on the bill for the relief o£the refugees
from Canada and Nova-Scotia. The bill
underwent several amendments, the chief of
which was, the striking out the clanfe which
provided for all pcrfons, whether male or fe
male, who were 14 years of age when they
emigrated, and substituting in its place, "
all heads of families,, and other male per 1 -
sons above the age of 21 years," and " all
persons whe were members of families when
they came into the United States, but who
afterwards entered into their service." The
quantity of land apportioned to the firft
class of persons, viz. those who loft and fuf
fered most, was not to exceed 2000 acres ;
to thole of the last glass 300 acres ; The bill
was finally agreed to, and p:\ffed to a third
reading, which it is to have to morrow.
A mefTage was received from the Senate,
informing the house that they had palled the
bill for the relief of John Frank, and that
they infilled upon their amendment to the
bill for paying the interest due to Gen.
Kofciulko.
The House took up the last bill, and in
filling upon their disagreement to * the Se
nate's amendment, a committee of confer
ence was appointed. Adjourned.
TUESDAY JANUARY 16. jj
Mr. Grifwold, from the committee to
whom was referred the memorial of John
Spafford and others, who wished to be al
lowed to purchase land of the United States
on different terms from th»fe prescribed by
law, reported against the objeft of the pe
tition, declaring it tube their opinion, that
the government could not dispose of land
in any other mode than such as was by law
dire&ed, and that individual applications
for the purchase of land could not be admit
ted. The house concarred in the report.
Mr. D. Foster, from the committee of
claims, made an unfavourable report on the
petition of William M'Kinley, which was
concurred in by the house.
. The bill for the relief of British Refu
gees from Canada and Nova-Scotia, was
read the third time and pafTcd.
Mr. Macon wished to propose a resolution'
for the adoption of the house, for the p" r
pofe of having it referred to the fame com
mittee of the whole to whom was referred
the report on tjje petition and remondranc;
csf the state of Tennessee. It was to the
following effedt •
"Resolved, That.the sura of
dollaVs ought to be appiopriated for t .e
purpose of defraying the expence vvhii-h ma)
be incurred, in forming any treaty or treaties
which the President of the United States
may deem it expedient to hold with the In
dians claiming lands within the state of 1 en
neffee."
Mr. Macon said, he was induced to make
this motion at this time, because when a
similar propolitior. was offered in the com
mittee of the whole it was deemed to e
out of order.. But as it was now well knownchat the Preficerit hsd appointed cotwriif
ftoners for balding a treaty, be believed it
would be best so make an appropriation in
the usual way to enable him to carry it in
to effedt!
The motion was agreed to»
■ Mr. Gregg proposed a resolution to the
following effeft: ,
*' Resolved that the c#mmitte^of Claims
be direftei to enquire into the expedifcney
or extending the aft passed in June, 1794,
entitled an aft in.addition to an aft for ma-
Sing further-provition for the protection of
ic frontiers of the United States so far as
it relates to the affording of relief to the wi
dows and children of officers and soldiers
who were killed in an aftion with the Indians
of the Ohio, and report theiY {)-
pinion thereon."—Agreed".'
Mr. Fowler presented a petition from
John Campbell, praying for compensation
for wood furnifhed to troops of the United
States in the year 1793. Referred to the,-
committee of Claims.
Mr. M'Dowell rose to call up the resolu
tion which he had laid upon the table a
week ago, refpefting the impeachment of
William Blount, and which had been defer
red, from the afiiirance which had been
made to the house that the chairman of the
committee appointed on that fubj«ft, would
be in his place yesterday. Finding that this
was not the cafe, he renewed his motion.
Mr. Harper said, that he understood, at
the time he said so, that the chairman of the
committee would be in his place yesterday.
He yesterday, however, saw a gentleman
from Eafton, who had conversed with that
gentleman 011 Saturday, and he informed
him he fhouldfet out from home on mon
day morning, tjjat he expefted him in town
this day.
Mr. Bayardcould not discover the motive
o£ the gentleman from N. Carolina in press
ing so closely this business ; for his part, he
could fee 110 public good which could be de
rived from accelerating it in tire manner pro
posed. When the business was firft brought
forward, he was kept'from the house by iu
difpofitipn, and therefore had not an oppor
tunity of fpcaking to it. It was well known
that the business of drawing the articles of
impeachment belonged to the chairman -
That they were not drawn earlier, he be
lieved was ov\'ing to the peculiar situation of
the person to be impeached; He was held
to bail by the Senate under the penal sum of
2COO dollars; and it was well understood
that when the articles of impeachment
(hould be exhibited against him in the Se
nate, he would not appear; and except he
did appear at that time, it would be impos
sible for the house to proceed with the im
peachment. This view of the fubjeft had
created a lukewarmnefs in the committee.
Had they been impressed with the idea that
the business could have been prosecuted with
success, he believed the articles of impeach
ment would have been produced at an ear
lier period of the session ; but as they con
sidered the farther proceeding iri the bufi
uefs as a mere matter of for™, they had been
the less anxious about it. Under
of the fubjeft, and as the chairman would
most likely return in a day or two, he sub
mitted to the gentleman from N. Carolina
a»d to the house, whether it would be pro
per to prefsthe business at this time.
Mr. Nicholas hoped the reason which had
•feeen assigned by the gentleman from Dela
ware, would be fufficient to induce the mov
er of the proposition not to press its decisi
on ; but he was surprised to hear the reasons
which had been assigned for not bringing
forward the articles of impeachment sooner.
It seemed that the gentleman supposed that
the measures which had been taken by the
house, and upon which the Seleft Commit
, tee had been appointed to aft during the re
cess of Congress, was a mere matter of form
and would come to nothing. He believed
it was a novel thing for a committee to con
travene the views of the house in their ap
pointment, and to determine the non-impor
tance of the business entrusted to them. He
believed the praftice to be as Angular, as the
doctrine was unfounded : for if it were pos
sible to impeach Mr. Blount at all, it could
be done whether he was present or not ; but
as the chairman was (hortly expefted, he
hoped the business would not at present be
proceeded with.
Mr. M'Dowell could toot agree any
farther delay. —ft-vras iiot frTs 'wifii to preci
pitate-any business through the house ; but
lie thought it was high time that the arti
cles of impeachment direfted'to he reported,
were before them. Hefpoke o£<the prompt
ness with which the house had a&ed at the
commencement o? this business. No feotier
he said, was Mr. Blount's letter laid before
them than he was impeached, and a com
" mittee appointed to fit during the recess,
with power to fend for persons and papers.
That committee had made a report, but no
farther step had yet been taken. What
were the motives of the committee he could
not tell; they perhaps thought they had
done their duty. It was said the chairman
would be in the house to-motrow ; if so, the
committee would have his afliftance ; if not,
they might have a member added to their
committee, if they wi(hed it. He thought
the house were bound to the country to pro
ceed with the business, and that they were
incurring censure every hour which they
neglefted it. He wished the sense of the
house to be taken upon his motion.
Mr. r. Claiborne said, the house would
■not have appointed a committee to fit du
ring the recess of Congress, if they had not
conceived the business upon which they were
employed was very important. It was to
enquire whether there were no other per
ions implicated in the charge which was
'brought against W. Blount. The house
supposed, if he were culpable, he was not
alone so, but there were more egregious
offenders than he ; and, when he gave his
consent for the committee to fit during the
Tecefs, it was with a view of their enquiring
who these persons were. The report which
had been made to the house implicated se
veral persons, as concerned with W. Blount,
a-, J he wilhed it to appear whether the (lain
which was thus thrown upon their charac
ter ought to be fixed cr removed, and as
there were persons upon the committee e
qually capable with the chaiiman ta make
the desired report, he hoped it would be
no longer delayed.
Mr. Dawfon rose to remark tlpon what
fell from his colleague (Mr. Nicholas.) —
He supposed the gentleman from Delaware
only gave it as his bpinionj or that of some
members of the committee, that Mr. Blount
could not be impeached in his abfenpe. The
fubjeft was a novel one, and he had not
fully made up his opinion upon it j but his
present impressions were, that an impeach
ment which did Hot go to affeft the life or
limbs of a man might be carried on in
fenc«. Hie contrary, -fre believed, was
the opinion of the chairman and of the
gentleman from Delaware, but not of the
committee.
Mr. R. Williams said, if there were no
reason to expejfitjthd chairman of the com
mittee soon, he (hould be in favor of taking
up the buiinefs at present ; but, when
they were afTured he would return in a day
or two, he thought no ill consequence could
arise from the Ihort delay. The hcufe had
decided that the impeachment (hould be
proceeded with, and he did not suppose that
the objeft of the house was to be frufti'ated
by any ineffeftual measures of the Senate
to secure the person of Mr. Blount. As
to the business being hastened from a delire
oi proceeding against any other person, he
saw no reason for this ; as the documents
i were berore the fuch a proceeding
> might as well be had now as when the ar
tides of impeachment were reported.
Mi. Nicholas moved to poftpo'ne the
decision of thisqueftion till Thursday. If
the chairman did not return in the mean
time, he supposed there would be no ob
jection to the appointment of another mem
ber in his place.
This motion was agreed to.
On motion of Mr. W. Claiborne, the
house resolved itfelfirrto a committee of the
whole on the report of a feleft committee
on the petition and remonstrance of the le
gifiature of the state of Tennessee, Mr.
Dent ifi the chair. The resolution report
ed having been read,
Mr. Macon moved to postpone the consi
deration of the resolution reported, in order
to take up the one which he had brought
forward this morning, and which had been
referred to this committee, as being more
conformable to the usual mode tdf appropri
ating to enable the President to effect any
treaty intended to be he held.
This motion occasioned a very warm, tho'
we cannot fay a very interesting debate, in
the course of which several disputes took
place on the fubjeft of "order. Indeed sev
eral members (among whom was the fpeai
er) thought the debate altogether out of
order, as they considered the lalt resolution
proposed as a substitute for the former, to
admit of which is contrary to a Handing
rule of the house. The chairman, howev
er, having declared the motion for poft
ponenici.t t<- the debate upon
it continued for about two hours, when the
question was taken and negatived 44 to 41.
I he advocates /or the soltportcment were
Meflrs. Macon, W. Claiborne, Gallatin,
Rutledge, and R. Williams ; those oppo
sed to it were MelTrs. N. Smith, Brooke*,
J. Parker, Harper, J. Williams and Thatch
er" , The committe rose and had leave to lit
again.
Mr. Clopton, from the committee of en
rolment, reported the bill for compensating
the doorkeeper of the senate and his afift
ant, and the bill for the relief of John Frank
as duly enrolled.
Mr. Bayard presented the petition of
George Reed, praying for a certificate of
registered debt in the place of a loan-office
ticket which he had loft or destroyed.
Mr. Sewall, from the committee appoin
ted to take into consideration that part of
the President's speech which relates to the
protedtion o%commerce and the defence of
the country, made a further report. The
committee dates, that further appropria
tions are neceflary for the completion of
the frigates, for an account of which they
refer to the documents from the proper de
partments which accompany their report.
Phey also Hate, that onlyitwo of the reve
nue cutters are fit to and equip
ped in the manner directed by congress, viz.
one on the Virginia station, and one in the
Delaware ; that the former only had been
armed for want of being able to procure
the neceflary cannon. The committee re
port four refolutionsfor the adoption of the
house.
The firft for the sum of
dollars for completing and equipping for
sea the three frigates.
The second for the sum of
dollars, for the pay and subsistence for the
term of one year, of the officers and crews
011 board the said frigates, and
dollars for ammunition, &c.
Ihe third, to authorize the President to
procure whenever, in his opinion, the fitu
tion of the country shall require it, not ex
ceeding vessels, fuitablc to be
employed for the proteftion of our fea
coafts, and to cause the fame to be armed
and equipped, on the fame terms as are di
rected for the naval armament, and that
there be appropriated not exceeding
dollars for the purpose.
The fourth proposes to authorize the
Prelidentjto establish, in some eligible fixa
tion, 3 Foundry, to be employed in casting
of cannon for the use of government, and
dollars be appropriated for
the purchase asa neceflary building and ma
terials, and to defray other expenccs atten
ding the eflablifhment.
The documents from the War Depart
ment accompanying this report, agree with
the estimates produced the other day, when
the fubjeft of an appropriation for the fri
gate* was under connderation,- as far as they
relate to the fini/hing of the except
that the balance remaining unexpended of
,■. 1 .
trlre lad appropriation, then Rated at 20,£01
dollars, i' 9 no*- flatcitat 35,754 dWlars, This
-difference reckices the tdimnte'fo' 115,533
dollars. In addition to this sum, there.is ?.Ho
an eftinaatefor rhe pay and Tubfiftence of the
officers and crew for a year,&p. which brings
the total sum wanted to 396,21
This report was committed for Monday
next. Adjourned.
The committee of conference appointed
by the. two houses on the fubjedl of differ
ence on the bill in favour of Gen. Kofciufko,
are, on the part of the Senate Mtflrs. Tra
cey and Rofs ; on the part of tlic 'House
j of Representatives, Messrs. Pinckney, Baw
fon and Gallatin,
Mr. Sev. all afced and gjbtaiocd leate of
"atjfence for his colleague, Mr. Otis, 'for
three weeks.
———an 1 iWMit r
X!)c on;cttc.
PHILADELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY EVENINQ, JANUARY 17.
Appointments—sr jvTHOP.Tr.
"she Prefideot of the United States, l>y and with
the advice and consent ot the Senate', has appoint
ed FisHf.r Ames, Bushkod Washington, anJ
AiMek Moore, Efqrt. for hold
ing a treaty with the Cherokee Indians, fur the
6xtingui(hire>it of the Indian titles to certain lands
in the state of I'enneflee
TheLegiflature of the Hate of New-York have
chosen Johj,' Stoss Hobabt, a« a Senator in-Con
grefs, in the place of General Schuyler, who has
reQgned.
Fxtrafl; of a late letter frim London.
" For public news, I reter you to the public pa
pers I cannot form any judgment, whether i#te
the late fortunate *isory obtained by admiral Dun
can over the Dutch fleet, will, or will not, accele
rate a peace—l fear not. k has, howtfvvr, »emo
ved to a mtich greater distance our apprehenlions
of an invaHon ; and tinnk, piaeed the*feeu
rity of cur commerce a -bttte*rfooriny. The
specie too, of which thi» country was well nigh
drained, has returned, and the commerce of the
World is in some degree centered here 5 so that at
no period since the commencement of the war,
has England been so well prepared to continue it,
as at this present moment.
" Mr. Pitt can raise money now without diffi
culty ; as much, ana more, than he has occafien for.
If the people of this country would be unanimous,
this unhappy and diftrefling war may yet be made
to terminate honorably for this country. Not any
thing is doing herein American Stocks—The no
minal value of bank lhares £.lO6 —fix per cpnt.
79 —three per cent.' 49 —defered, 6j per cent, no
sales."
_ ' <•-'
Extract of a letter from Lisbon, d«(ted the 16th of
Odtober, 1797.
" As to news we have nothing certain, for tho
the articles of peace between Portugal and trance
have appeared in the public prints, ratified, yet
they are not published here; exprefles are continu
ally arriving from England,but nothingtranfpires.
Lord St. Vincent continues to blockade Cadiz ;
he has now only I? fail of the line Spaniards
are 31, besides 5 Ihips in ordinary.—The French
privateers are very numerous on that coast, and
take almost every American vessel they meet,
which they condemn, right or French
consuls in Spain are the privateer owners,the judge
and jury for condemnation, and the only appeal is
te the French directory, the Spanish cabiuet not
daring to interfere, so you may judge th« chance
of equity and justice."
Errata in No. 9 of Scipio.
Secand fedlion in ;th line, instead of th,e word
or read for. Last feiflion in 6th line, instead of
the word here read there. Ditto in loth line,
after the word ban'fhed omit from the world.
" S,cipio" No. 10, is received, and (hall appear
to-morrow.
The Eastern mail had not arrived when this
paper went to press.
The bridges over Schuylkill are carried a
wav. The frequent interruption of the com
munication by accidents to those temporary
bridg&, calls forcibly for some permanent ftruc
tilre which (hall insure an intercourse between
the city and the western banks of the Schuyl
kill, at all seasons.
The Delaware is still full of floating ice, from
the Fort dowiiwards.
Arrived on Saturday at Reedy Island brig
Liberty, Duer, 30 days from Sjiurrinam.
Sch. Hetty, Mafou, from hence, has
arrived at Savannah, in 5 days from the
Capes of Delaware.
Arrived at Mareus Hook.
Brig Rambler, Odlin, St. Jajo, Island
of Cuba.
Liberty, Duer, Surrinam.
(Danish unknown) Malaga.
Barque D. (out 6 months) Leghorn.
Sch. Amy, Cufhing, C. Franceist
Brig Hannah, Henry, from the Havan
nah (via Charleston) to this port, after be
ing out 23 days, returned to Charleston the
3d inft.
PRICE O F ST O C KS.
Philadelphia, January 16, 1797.
Six Fer Cent. 16/jj to iod
rhree per Cent. I of* sc!-
Deferred 6 per Cent. 1.3/9 tod.
BANK United States, 2i per cent.
——— Pennsylvania, 13 per cent.
North America, 45 per cent.
lafuranCeCo. Pennsylvania, j to 6 per cent.
N. A. lhares 40perceat.
LEGISLATURE of PENNSYLVANIA.
In the legislature of ftace, on the 10th
instant, a petition was received from cit zejs of
Huntingdon, Somerset and VVelfmoreland coun
ties, praying for aid to improve the road from
Frankftown to Ligcnier valley. Reports were
made in favour of the petition frtfm Fifidle'y and
Donnegal townships, relative to a new eledtion
diftrift, and one from Chester, Lar.cafler and
York counties, for an abatement of interest on
patented lands. The bill authorizing Frederick
Leather to maintain a dam across tfald
Creek, which was recommitted. was reported
anew. An unfavourable report was made pn
on the petition of John Wampler, of York coun
ty. Bil's were reported for incorporating the
town of Chamberfburgh, and for regulating the
bfiieries in the Sufquehahnah and Juniata. Ue
olutions were laid on the table proposing the
appointment cf commitieeS for bringing' in a
bill to declare the river Allegheny a public high
way ; and to enquire into whit alterations are
in tht aft relative to pedlars and p*u- >
pers. The bill fuppiementary so she a<£l for
. extending the powers of Jnttirei of the peace
was pafTcM. The different relolutioriE relative
ti> the (diaries of the judges, tame again under
difcuflinn, the farther coufideration of which, j
after a lengthy debate, was postponed ftrvdie. — I
< Counsel wat allowed to David .icnefon, in the |
trial ofhis e'eflion. • j
On the 1I th, the amendment to the bill
for making comptnfation to the members of
the late Legi flat ure was agreed to. A let
ter from John Hoge, one of the petitioners
against the ele&ion of David Achefon, re
queuing leave to be heard by counsel, which
was granted. Ordered that D. Achefon
furnifh a ftatemeot of his qualifications by
.to-mOrrow. The bill authorizing the gov
ernor to incorporate a company, to improve
the navigation of the river Lehigh was ja
greed to with fume amendments."
On the 12th instant, the following reso
lutions were laid upon the table, for theap
pointment of committees for the following
purposes, viz. to bring in a bill to prevent
the obftruftions being removed in the river
Sufqtiehanna, between WrigV.ts Ferry and
the Maryland line, by persons unauthorised,
and to propose a plan for opening the water
communication between the Sufquehanna
and the Delaware ; to examine the law rela
i tive to the trial of contested elections, and
to report, whether any and what alterations
are necessary therein; and to bring in a bill
to make all fines and forfeitures payable to
the Treasurers of the Countiel, instead of
the Treafurei of the State. Bills were di
rected to be brought in to answer the peti
tions of Benjamin Ellicott and from Upper
j Paxton Townlhip. A letter was received
from David Achefon, member from Wash
ington County, stating, " that finding trom
his own reflexions, and from the sentiments
of some 'friends entitled to his confidence,
that the fubjedt of his election was involved
in cor.fiderable difficulty, his feelings wduld
not allow him to retain a legislative office
under fnch circumstances—he therefore re
figrts his feat." The house went intoa com
mittee on the bill providing for the immedi
ate ereflion of a House of Employment and
for the fuppert of tne poor in the county of
1 Chester, and for making the poor a countv
charge, and the bill was reported with a
mendments.
> Exlraß of a letter from a gentleman in Europe,
to his friend in Philadelphia: dated October
20 th, 1797.
" A summary of the correspondence be.
' tween Mr. Pickering and Mr. Monroe was
lately published from the Gazette Nation- j
r ale of Paris, with a very judicious note from .
the Editur, which overset Mr. Monroe's
reaioning very completely. The paper was
handed to me by , a very
: fcnfible man who fays Mr. Monroe mull be
an ideot—This affair having been read by
the corps diplomatique, has been a good
| deal the fubjedt of conversation, and Mon
-1 roe's c-jiiduCttras ef course excited univer
l sal contempt."
\ From the ,c Gazette Nationale de France"
\ of Sunday, Sept. 24th, 1797.
TRANSLATION.
United States of America.
Philadelphia, 24 th of dugufi. '■
James Monroe, ambassador from the U-
I liited States near the French republic, has :
: just published his correspondence with Tim- 1
, othy Pickering, secretary of Hate. 1
James Monroe, in his letter of the 6th i
and Bth of July, demands the motives of 1
his recal, " It is not conformable to the 1
, principles of an eledtive government, to
blafl the reputation of a citizen by a dif- 1
graceful recal, without exhibiting the i
motives thereof. Let kings, fays he, give i
no other reasons for dispensing favors or <
disgrace, than their good pleasure or their
caprioe ; but let it not be thus under a re- '
publican government. ' 1
Note by the Paris Editor. i
We cannot concur in the opinion of James
Monroe, which we even regard as contrary to
every principle. A government which is*ref
ponlible must necefTarily pefiefs the right of re
calling, removing or employing those who pof
-1 fefs, or have loft, t'seir cojsfidence. Deprive it
of this right, and you leave it nothing but the
burden of responsibility without the power of
a<sf!ng. You leave it at the mercy of its agenti.
Neither a recal, moreover, nor even a removal,
reflect difnoneur, whatever Mr. JVonroe may
fay on the fubjedt, and it is only ambitious and
keadjlrong blunderers <who ever complain either
of not being employed at all, or of be ng remov
ed.
[ The original is handed to the Editor of
the Aurora in mauufcript.J
The Southern Mail
Due this morning, arrivej at a late hour. We
flop the press to ir.l'ert the following articles from
the Norfolk Herald, of the 6th inft.
PARIS, November 8.
The two Polilh nobles, who had fought
a refuge n this capital, hail tlreir apart
ments plunderedyefterdaymorning!ofi 1,000 J
Louis, and yf Diamonds of the value of i
72,000 Livres. The miscreants have been r
apprehended, and nearly all the property "•
recovered.
November 13.
We are afTured that the executive direc
tory has indirectly informed the court of j
London, that peat* might be concluded if c
it would consent to-the re-establishment 'on t
the one part and the other; of the Status 1
ante Bellum. They intimated at the fame F
time, that they wiR never deyart from this
resolution. '
Gen. Defaix, whole return to Strafburg t
we have annonncce, is expefted [at Paris, t
whence he will depart for Rennes, after hav- 0
ing concerted with the dire&ory the com- IJ
menqement of organization of the army of a
Engitnd. This army, ii is said, will con- v
fill of 60,000 men.
On the 4th November the military com
miflton of Strafburg. conformable ta the
severe law of the 19th Frnftidor, condemn
ed to death a returned emigrant, a natrre ,
of Hagueuau, who was (hot upon the spot. „
The wife of Gen. Buonaparte is on ber
route to Paris, and the general himfclf It
expefted in i j days.
The news of ihe eontinent.il place vai •
received at Brrft with the mu!i lively trnnf»
potts. On the 4th i_ilt. lo'wiihltanditig
the proc'amation of tue D.re&ory, no ex-*
traordir.ary preparation had taken place in
that port ; they even continued the dis
arming of thi (hips of the line. They we.e
doing nothing but arming eight frigates,
which are to have fonr months provisions on
board, but the destination of which was un
known.
The Executive. Directory has fern off
wilhin th»fe two days a courier to Berlin.
The following letter has been addressed
by La Fayette, Latour Mauberg, and-Bu
reau do Puzy, to general Buonaparte.
" Citizen Generali
" The prisoners of Olmutz, happy to
owe their deliverance to the good wilhes ®f
their country in your invincible arms, have
enjoyed in their captivity the thought that
their liberty and their livss were attached to
the triumphs of the Republic, and your
personal glory. They now enjoy the hom
age which th?y love to pay tothjeir deliverer.
" It would be plea ling to us, citizen
General, to go and ofter in person this ex
predion of our sentiments; to fee in the
Theatre itfelf of such viftories the army
which had gained them, and Hero who
had placed our refurreftion in the number
of his Miracles; but you know that a jour
ney from Hamburgh isnot left to our thoife
and it is from the place in which bade a
last. adieu to our goalers, fnat addrefs
our thanks to tlisir conquerer.
■' In the solitary retreat upon the Danih
Territory of Holftein, \4e are trying to,
re-eftabKfh the health wf thole whom you
hav? saved, we join to the wirtjes of our
patriotism for the republic, the warmed in
terest are for the illustrious General to
whom we are Itill more attached by the ser
vices which he has rendered tp the cause
of liberty and our county, than by the per
sonal obligations which it is our glory to
owe him, and which the warmed gratitude
has forever engraved on our hearts.
(Signed)
" La Fayette,
4 " Latour Maubourg,
" Bureau de Puzy."
LOVAIN, Odlober 28.
Our University, which had existed nearly
4GO years, and which formerly enjoyed
| much reputation in the literary world, £ has
; been destroyed by an order of the Depart -
! ment of theDyle- Itmuft be admitted that
it deserved its fate. It was the principal asy
lum in tins Netherlands of fanatieifm, and
of those piinaiples which were molt oppo
site to the new regime. Ignorance is infome
places the natural produ&ion of the Gountry
but at Louvain it appears that it was cul
tivated with care. None of the valuable
appendages to the University, as the Li
brary, Pljyfic, Garden, &c. have howcAer
been deftroyedr
VIENNA, Nov. r.
The Emperor had given orders that the
i army of the Hungarianlevy (hall be disband
! Ed, and the troops h<ure accordingly begun
to return home. All preparations for war
are now entirely laid alide, and 130 pieces
of heavy artillery, which had been ordered
to the Rhine, have been countermanded by
a courier. The expence of the
of this artillery would have been 16,500 flo
rins.
1 he Emperor has dated, in a letter under
his own hand, to the Duke of Modena, the
indemnification which the latter will receive
in the Brifgaw for his Italian territories, ac
cording to the treaty.
The Marquis de Chatejler and two French
CommiiTariej are proceeding to fettle the
boundaries of the territory in Italy, accord
ing to the late treaty.
FRONTIERS OF ITALY.
October 27.
The (French army is now drawin;; off from (lie
Auitrian Italian fronti r«, and marcbijnf lin dift'er-nc
columns in o the IVUlanefe. 1 In leveral pares a, ,1 j)'.
trigs which h r e be-n left by the. French an,, to.en
pofTtHionof by the Cifalpinc trowps, tbefo.mei have
Vle a " the arrrars of the, Contributions, of i m ,. li
ed new ones At Brefciithey required two millions
of I'Vres. of Count Venetol, pl ,d 7 o 000.
I hey nave likewise rcquued two millions of Man
tua
An Auftrian%eneral hasalready arrived all Udina
to t ke ncceffiry roc-./ures for ihe entrance of tie
Anllrian troops into the Venetian territories which
have been ceded to Aulliin by the treaty. In the Ve
netian ft?. s whicb are to fee given up to Austria, a I
Udina, &c tne French have disbanded the hussar
compa mts the? had railed there; but the companies
of the fame kind winch had been lormed in Bolocna
F rrara, a.id o her principal places of the Cisalpine
Republic, are still continued. I'hc company of W
lan, which cor.Gfts of 60 young men of the belt fami
lies. has been preferred to the Direftory tnere.
Qene Buonajarte was expc&d at Milan, from
Udina, on the 26kh.
UPPER RHINE, Nov 4.
Generalßuonaparteis expevl eclat Strafburgh,
on hi way to Paris, whence lie will goto Ra
ftadt. Every preparation is njaking to receive
him with all poflible of honour and
refpea. His journey through France to Paris
will be one continued triumph.
LONDON, Nov.
. Vefterday the Hamburg Mail, due on Wed
nesday {aft, arrived at the general uoft-ofUce
Now that the emperor ard the diledlory have
come to a pood understanding, its a jpears tKt
the latter have given up their design of renub-
I oai-ifing the left bank of the Rhine. The em
peror 15 reducing his Hungarian levies. The
French are beginning to march their armv of
G-rraaoy to Dunkirk and Calais, and are hke
■> tie cutting down (Rip timber in (he in
tl.e neighbqurhood of the Rhine and
to fend to Holland. Ihisfhews that their plan
of attack againit this country i» already acted
upon in its details, and that their preparations
are systematic. W>H a vigilant admimftration
we rnijht confidently exp-a that the definn
would be fruftrjtcd before an attempt could be
made to carry it into execution.
Two furnijhed Rooms to be LeT.
Enquire at 7W 162, Spmfe-ftreet, between
4th and rth firsts. Any perfen wh« shall rent
the jbove; may if required, bs accommodated
wnb board.
Jan 15. . # JtPROPOSALS
FOR :
CARRTTNG THE PUBLIC MAILS •
on the following Post Roads will be re
ceived at the General Post Office until
the 14th day of February next inclusive.
PR NNSYI. V A KIAM<- I
I. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, Newcaf- a
tie, Cantwell's bridge, Duck crfk, Dover, Fred
erica, Milford, Cloughs. Trap,
Snowhill, H3rntov.ll and court house to y
Northampton court house ilree time< a week. r
April Kto November ij. I.cave Philadelphia ev
cry Tuesday, Thuifday and Saturday at 1 a M,and r
afrrite at Northamntoa court house on Ihufday, t
Saturday and Monday at pm. Returning. Leave j
N'ovthampton court house every Fri'lay* Monday c
and Wcd»;fday«at 2a m, and arrive at Pfciladc.- c
phia on Monday, Wednesday as* Friday by 7 )
P M. J
November 15 to April I. Leave Philadelphia ev
ery fuefd.y, Thursday and Saturday at 6 a m, a
an J strife at Northampton court house on l-riuay, ,
Monday and Wednesday by 7 p "• R^""" n i~ »
Leave Northampton court hoofe every Saturday, j
Tuesday and Thursday at 6 a m, and arrive at £
Philadelphia on Wednesday, Friday and Monday a
by 7 r m. » '
VIRGINIA.
1. From Northampton court house to Norfolk
timesa w«ck. C
April r to November IJ. Leave Northampton t ,
cdurt house every Monday, Wednesday and Fri- j
/day >t t pm, and arrive at Norfolk in 24 hours. . r
Returning—Leave Norfolk every Wednesday, Fri- j
flay and Monday a4a m, and arrive at Northamp- j
ton court house in twenty lour hours. r
November 15 to Jpril I. Leave Northampton b
court house every Tuesday, Tlvjrfday and Saturday a
at 3a m, and arrive at Norfolk in 14 hours. Re- ,
turniM—Leave Norfolk every Monday, Wcdael
day and Friday by 4 * and » rrive " Northamp- ■ „
ton court hpufe in 14 hours.
PENNSYLVANIA i€ MARYLAND. \ a
3. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, New
port,Chriftiana.Middletown,Warwick andGoerge- ; a
tuwn cross roadstoChefterftowntnreetimesa week.
May Ito November I. Leave Philadelphia every a
Sunday,*fuefd;y and Thursday by 9 r m, andar
r.ve at Cheftertown the next days by 8p m. Re- a
turning —Leave Cheftertown every Monday, Wed- j,
nel<tay and Friday by 9P m, and arrive at Phila- n
dtlphiathe neat days by 8 pm,
November 1 to May 1. Leave Philadelphia eve- t ,
ry Mooday and Friday by 9 a m, and arrive at ; },
Cheftertown on Tuesday and Saturday by 4 r m.
Leave Cheftertown every Monday and „
Friday, byß am, and arrive at Philadelphia on „
Tuesday and Saturday by 4 p m. \
MARYLAND. 1
4. From Cheftertown by tentervijle, Eafton, a
Newmarket, Vienna, Saliftury, Snowhill andPrin- a
ctfs Ann to Saliibury once a week.
Receive the mail at Cheftertown every Wednci- h
day at 7 am, arrive at Eaftop by 4p M. Leave j,
Eafton on'ljiuifday by 6A m, arrive at Snowhili I
oil Friday by I p. m, and at Princeis Ann by 6 P.
m. Reluming—LeavePrinccfs Ann on Saturday by a
Iqam, arrive at Eafton the next day or Monday f
by 6» M Leirve Eafton on Tuesday by. 8 a M.and t
arrive at Cheftprtawn fame day by 4 » **• , . '
J. From ttarfard, by Bel-Air to the Blac.t horse
once a week. k
Leave Harford every Tuesday by IDA M, and
arrive a' Hlaek horse by 6p m. Returnin,—Leave a
Black horse on Wednesday by, 6A u, and arrive at ,
Harlord iHV n«*t
PENNSYLVANIA, MARYLAND and FIR- <
GINIA.
6. From Baltimore by Blackhorfe to Yorktown 1
Pa. once a week. <
Leave Baltimore every Friday by 4 P m, arrive
»t Blackhorfe on Saturday by 10 a m, aiidarrive ,
at Yorktown by 8 rm. Returning—Leave Y«»t ]
town every Thursday by 7 am, and arrive at Bal- .
tioiore on Friday noon. .
From Yorktown by Hanover, Peterflaorg, ,
Taneyton ar.d Fred<rLktown to Leefburg once a ]
week. , o'
Leave Yorktown every Monday at 8 A M,arrive
at Fredericktown on Tutfdayby 5 i* m, aiidarrive
at Leeiburg on Wednesday bylta. Returning—
Leave Leefburg every Friday at noon, and arrive
at Yorktown by 6 p m on Sunday.
8. From Yorktown by Abbotllown, Gcttilburg,
Fairfield, Elirabethtown, Williamfport, Martint
burg, Winchester, Stevenlburg and Straiburg to
WootfUock onc« a week.
Leave Yorktown every Sunday by noon, arrive
at Martinlburg on Tuesday by 11 am, £ ea * e
Martinfburg on Tujfday noon and arrive at Wood
ftock on Wednesday by 6p m. Returning —Leave
Woodftock on Thursday by 6 a «, arrive at Mar
tinfburg 011 Ftiday by 11 a m, and arrive at York
town on Sunday by 11 a «.
9. Frgni Pittfliurg by Cannonfburg, Waihmg
ton, Weft Liberty and Wheeling to the mouth of
Filhing creek odce a week (contraA for one year
oily.) 1
Leave Pittfburg every Friday at 9 a m, and ar
rive at Filhing cretk 011 Sunday at 9 a m. Ret urn
ing— LcavciFilhir.g creek on Wedt>efday at 8 a m,
and arrive at Pittfburgon Friday at 8 a m.
10. From Washington by Brownsville and Union
to Morgantown once a week.
Leave Union every Friday at 6 am, and arrive
at Walhington by 6p m. Leave Waftiington on
Saturday at 6 a m, arrive at on Sun
day at 6p M. Leave Morgantown on Monday at
8 a m, and arrive at Union by 3 e m.
11. From Baltimore by Fredericktown, Eliza
beth to-An, Greencaftle-nd Chamberfburg to Ship
penfbutg once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Friday by II a m,arrive
at Fredericktown on Saturday by 10 a m, attli
zabethtown in the evening, and at Shippenfburg
0:1 Monday by 7r m. Returning—Leave Shippenf
burg every Tuesday it 9 a m, arrive at Elizabeth
town at 8 p m , at Fredericktown on Wednesday
noon, and at Bakimfcreon Thursday by J pm.
MARYLAND.
11. From Eliiabethtown by Hancock and Old
town to Cumberland once a week.
LraveCumberli d every Saturday hy 6 a M.and
arrive at ElizaH:thtown on Monday by 8 a m.
Returning I.eavg Elizahethtown every Monday by
10 a M, and irrj te at Cumberland on Tuesday bj
6 pm.
13. From E/Uimore to Annapolis once « week.
Leave Bait i/r-.ore every Monday at 8 am, and
arrive at Anmpolis by 5r u, Returning—Leave
Annapolis Tuefday at 8 a m, mod arrive at
Baltimorebiy S pm.
14. Fro*i Baltimore by Annapolis Queen Ann«,
Upper Marlborough,Pifcataway,P«rttobaceo, Al
len>frelh, Newport and Chaptico to Leonar.dtown
once a wedt.
|, C av; Baltimore every Friday at 10 a m, arrive
»t Annapolit at 5r m. Leave Annapolit on Sa
turday at 6 A m, arj-ive at Upper Marlborough
by noon,arrive at Pifcataway by 6 p m. 3c arrive at
Leonardtown every Monday forenoon by 90' clock.
R.-iurning —LeaveLeonardtown every Monday at 3
r M , arrh'e at P.ifcataway on Tuesday by 6 p m
arrive at Upper MarlbfJrougli on Wedneftlay by
it \m, and arrive at Annapolia by 6 p m . Leave
Annapolis on Thursday by 7 a m, and arrive it
Baltimore by 3 p u.
15. From Ar.napolU by Lower Marlborough,
Huntington and Calvert court house to St. Leon
ard! <Huc a week.
Leave Annapoli' every <a>urday at 9 a it, and
arrive at St. Leonards on Monday hy 3r m. R.--
Leave St. Leonards every Monday at 4
r Ui an d arrive at Annapolis the next Saturday by
(am.
16. From Bladeufuprg by tapper Marlborough,
,
ntdivt and Charlottehall to Ct.aotiro once a wee*, a
Leave Bladenlburg cv.-ry .Saturday at 9 A M.ar-
rive at Upper Marlborough b/ at Lovr.r ,
Marlboro***" Monday hy ; f «, -c at Chap uo
: »T 6r M. Returning —Lea vt<\»fMcoe veryThurl-
da/ at 6 a m, and arrive at JJladc.ifbtufc on Satur
day at 6 a m.
17. Fxoni Georgetown by Montgomery court
house to Fr-dericktown once a week. j
Leave Georgetown every Friday by 6 a m, ana
arrive at Fredericktown hy 6 pu. Returning
Leave Feedericktown every Thursday by 5a *> Q
■ and arrive at Georgetown by 6 p m. e
VIRGINIA. d
18. From Woodftock by Newmirket, Rocking- f
' ham court Uoofe, Staunton, Lexington and Fmcal- ]
rie to Bie Lick once a week.
Leave Woodftock every Th.urfday by 6a m, ar- 5
' rive at Staunton on Friday at I p m. Leave taun
. ton every Friday a. a PM, arrive at Big Lick on
: Sunday by if a 'St. Returning—Leave Big Lick
onSunday by j p m, arrive at Staonton every Fu -
dayby II a m. Leave Stauntom by 11 o dock
)noon) and arrive at Woodftock on Wednesday !>y. v
5 19. From Big Lick by Montgom ry court house »
' and Wythe court house to Abingdon once a week.
' i Leave Big Lick every Sunday at 1p m, arrive
at Wythe court house on Tuesday by a p m, and at
Abingdon on Wedaefday by 6r m. Returning— ((
Leave Abingdon every Thursday by 6 a m, arrive
at Wythe court lioufe on Friday by a pm, andaa- t
rive at Big LickonSundzy bv II a m. t
TENNESSEE. c
to. From Abingdon, Vir. by Jonefborough
Greenville,Moffat's store and jefferfon court houle t
to Knoxvilln once a week.
1 Leave Abingdon every Thursday by oa m, ar- r
rive atMoffdts store on Saturday by 8a m. Leave I
Moffats by 9 a'm, and arrive at Knoxville on Sun- r
day by 10 a "• Returning—Leave Knoxville eve
i ry Sunday by » p m, arrive at Moffitsun Monday
by 3p m. Leave Moffats on Monday at 4p m,
and arrive at Abingdon on Wednesday by 7p m. j
VIRGINIA. "
21. From Winchester by Romney to MoorfielJs
I once a week. (
Leave Winchester every Thursday at 6 a M,and .
! arriveat Moorfield«n Friday by 6P M. Return-
ing—Leave Moorfield every Saturday at 8a m, and j
arrive at Winchester on Sunday by 6 P M, ,
From Alexandria by Centerville, Leefburg
and Shepherdftown to Martinfburg once a week.
Leave Alexandria every Wednesday at 9a m, 1
and arrive at Maranfcurg on Friday by 10 am;
Returning—Leave Martinfburg every Friday by
noon Sc. arrive at Alexandria on Monday by 7a m. <
13. From Frederickfbburg by Port Royal, Lay- <
tons,Tappahaonock,Urbaiina and Gloucester court 1
house to Yorktown once a week.
Leave every Wednesday at 6 a
m, arrive at Tappahannock on Thursday by 11
a M." Leave Tappahannock at noon and arrive at ,
Yorktown on Saturday by 11 am. Returning
Leave Yorktown every Saturday at 1 P M, arrive
at Tappahannock the next Monday noon and arrive
at JFrederickikiirg on Tuesday by J PM.
14. From Tappahannock by Richmond court
house, Wefttr.oreland court houie, Kinfale, Farn
ham church and Northumberland court houfs to )
Lane after court house 0 Dec a week-
Leave Tappahannock every Thursday noon and
arrive at Lancaster court house on Saturday by 11 i
am. Returilipg—LeaveLancafter court house ev
ery Saturday by 1P M. and arrive at Tappahan- 1
no«k on Monday by ti a m<
45. Frpm Fredericksurg "by Culpeper court
hdufe & Orange c. h. to Charlottcfvilleonce a week.
teave tfrederickfburg every Tuesday at 10 a m,
and arrive at Charlottefville on Thurfiay by 11 a
m. Returning^—Leave Charlottefville on Saturday
at? f M, and arrive" it" FrederacklDurg on
day by 6 a m.
a 6. From Richrnoad by Goochland court
-1 house Columbia arid Charlottefville to Staunton
once a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 1 P M, ar
rive at Charlottefville on Thursday by 11 a m.
Leave Charlastefville by noon and arrive at
Staunton 00 Friday by 11 am. Returning
Leave Staunton 0* Saturday Ijy 6 A M, arrive at
' Charlottefville by 7 P M, and arrive at Rich
-1 rtiond the next Tuesday by 9 a m.
2j. Fram Staunton by Bath court-house and
* Sweet springs to Greenbrier court-house once %
- week-
Leave Staunton every Saturday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Greenbrier court-house on Tuesday by
6 pm. Returning—Leave Greenbrier oourt
' house every Monday by 9 AM, and arrive at
3 Staunton on Thursday by 8 p m.
iB. From Cbarlottefvile by Warren, War
e minster, New-Market, Ajnherft court house,
e Cabelllburg, and Maddifon to Lynchburg once
- a week.
e Leave Charlottefville every Thursday at I P
- M. and arrive at Ly«chburg on Saturday at 6
- p M. Returning—Leave Lynohburg every
Tuesday by 6 A M, and arrive at Charlottefville
on Thursday by 10 A M.
'f 19. From Richmond ky Hanovertown, Ay
ir letts and Todds to Tappahannock once a week
or if carried in stages as often a> they shall run.
Leave Richmond every Wednesday at j » M,
arrive at Todds at 3 p m, and at Tappahannock
'• on Thursday at 11 A M. Returning—Leave
Tappahannock on Monday at 1 v M, and ar
n rive at Richmond on Tuesday by 5 P M.
ra 30. From Richmond by Hopkins's, Powha
n tan court house, Cumberland court house, Prince
Edward court house and Lynchburg to NeW
lt London, once a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 8 A M,
i. arrive at Ptince Edward on Wednesday at 6 P
p. m, and arrive at Lynchburg on Friday at 8A M,
and at New-London by to AM. Returning —
re Leave New-London every Friday at i P M, ar
li- rive at Lynchburg by j p m, arrive at Prince
•g Edward on Saturday by 7 P M., and arrive at
if- Richmond on Monday by 4P M.
h 31. From New-London by Liberty to Fincaf
»y tie once a week.
Leave New London every Friday at 1 p M,
and arrive at Fincaftle cn Saturday by 6 p m.
d" Returning—Leave Fincaftle on Monday at 5 A
M, and arrive at New London on Tuesday nootu
31. From Liberty by Rocky Mount to Mar
j*' tinvHle once in two weeks.
Leave Liberty every other Saturday at 6 A
* M, and arr'(ve at Martinville on SUnday by 6 p
k m. Leave Martinville on Monday by 6 AM,
nd arrive at Liberty on Tuesday by 6 pm.
ive 33. From Prince Edward court house bv
at Charlotte court house to Halifax court hou.e
once a week.
„« j Lmvt Priuce Ed war-'court house every Thurf
\ day at 6A M, arrive at Halifax court honfe
wn on Friday at io AM. Retursing—Leave Hal
ifax court house on Friday by 1 P M, and ar
ive live at Prince Edward court house on Saturday
ia- by 6 PM.
gh VIROimA and NORTH-CAROLINA.
: at 84. From Hilifax court-houleby Halifax oldtown,
it. Carters, Martinvillc, Patrickcouri-houfe, Upper Sau
t , ra t Germantnwn and Bcthaoia to Salem ooce io two
„ weeks.
j,y Love court-houfe every other Friday at
ve <, PM, and arrive at Salem the next Monday bv 6,
a - PM. Returning—LcaveSalem every oiher Tuesday
at 6, A M, and ainve at HiliCaxcouit-houfe on Fri
,> dayby 10, AM.
,a ' r - Fiom Hauii'iby Kicke»'»£otd to Hajifaxtwice
in- 1 . '
a week.
Leave Harris's every Wednesday and Saturday by
j 5, AM. and arrive at Halilax by 6, PM. Return
ing—leave Halifax eveiy Thursday and Sunday by 6,
4 AM, and arrive at Harris's oy 7, P. M«
!>y VIRGINIA.
36. Fr»:m f mill.field by Southampton court-house
h, to Hickes'a ford once a week. ,
Le.veHick.-4ford everyjothe- Fridiy'by2. •[>_'
and trrlve *<*'> W /«
oa Monday by la,
* s P 7 M r«mSoWfon.by Creftridge. % f ,
aurf Lui«b«g cour.-noufc. and hi
' muad* fto-e to Goldfoo'. "«ce a wceK..
. Tc,veGoid^,.e, ;r vWed^ r uo.*M,«d
return the»»ext Saturday by 2 5 .* p
, Poa-Ofice a hour, aflet delivevy A.r. /•
1 VIRGISIA isf NOllTh-C AROLIXA. w
38. From S,.irolK.byEden!on, Plymouth and \V w
' fciistoo to Newberr,, on« . Leavt Suffolk
every Monday at noon, arrive at Edento# on 1 uef- a ,
day at ■, PM, at P.ymoutb, 011 Wednesday by 6, .
■ A y M ; WafhWon by 6, P«,»d at N-berno" j
- Thurfd.ybyii p M. Reiuminj Leave Newbein
every-friday by 6, A M, ar,.ve at Waihing'.on by
. c P M Arrive at Plymouth on Saturday by 4
! S P A M, aud .. !>ufi
1 folk on Monday f>y 9, A M- th
NOR'C H-C ARQLIi\A- _ j r
,g Fr»m Edentonby Hertford, Nixonto., Elraa-.
: b4.y, to •" dl » n - town - °" ce i.
' W Le k aVe Eden,on every Wedncfd.y by
. arrive at IncUan-iowo on fhu lday Y l ' M
' turning-Leave Indiar.towneveryTuefdayby fc, AM,
, and ..rive at Edeoton on Wednesday at it, A M.
40. from Halifax by Northampton curt-hou e
' Princeton, Murfreeft-jroogb, W.ntou aod W.ndlor
to Edenton. once a week. .
: Leave Halifax every Monday at 9, AM, and arrive _
it-Edenton on Wednesday l>y 3' M ! e^ C ,, j ,
tonon Wednesday by 6, P M, and arrive at Halifax
on iaturitj? by 11, AM uriu.— r
41. Ftom Halifax by Scotland, Hogton, . 1
: ton and Daily's to Plymouth, once a week. Le.ve
Halifax every Monday at 10, A M, .od arrive at Ply
• mouth on Wednesday by 10, A M. Rc ' urnl "B
• Leave Plymouth On Wednesday at 2, r ,an
rife at Halifax on Friday at 10, A M.
42. From Halifax by Tarboro' and Greenville to
, Walhingtononee a week. , B.
Leave Halifax every Monday at 10, A M,
' nve at Wa(hington on Wednesday by 10 A M. j,
turning—Leave Wathington every Wednesday at 2,
p M, and ariive at Halifax on Friday, at l °> ' v,
8 41 . From Halifax by Warien:oit,^ill'anifl> orou 6 h '
. Ox lord, HilUborough, Martinvilk, Salcm.Lexing
-1 ton, Salifbary and Statefville to Charlotte, and trom
" Charlotte by Cabarras court-bwUfe to Saldbury, and
1 from tkence by the fame route to Halifax, once C
WPrk . -
r Leave Halifax evofy Monday at 9. AM, arrive at q,
' wtreln y. T V «ri« at HiHlborough on si
, Wednesday at 4, PM, at Salem on Friday by 5, D
; PM, at Sahthwv on at 4, PM, and at sl
y Charlotte on Monday by 6, AM-
[. Charlotte on Mondayat.o, I M, arrive at Salffbu:ty
. on Tuefdayby 10, A M, arrive at Salem |,on \\ed
x nefdayatg, A M, atHillfborough on Friday byg,
AM, at Warremonon Saturday at 7, PM, and at _
Halifax #n Monday at 6, AM
44. From Hillfijoroiigh by Mount Tirzih, P« fon
. court-house, Leatburg, Cafwell court-beute and Koc
kingham court-house to Germantown once in two
e Leave Hillfboroughevery othcr-Thnrfdayat 6, Ag, _
e and arrive at Germantown on Saturday at 4, P. M. j
Leave Germantown every other Sunday al 6, A, M,
and arrive at Hillfborough onTuefday at 4, P M.
45. From Salem by Beihania, Huntfvillc, Rocn
-0 ford, Wilkei, Morgantop and Ratherfordton to Spar
tanburg in S. C. once in two weeks. 1
1 Leave Salem <veiy other Saturday at 5a m, and ar- j
1 rive at Spartanburg on Wednesday at 5p m. Leave a
Spartanburg every other Thursday at 7 a m, and ar-
rive at Salem the next Monday at 6 p m. j
46. From Louifburg by Na(h court-house to Tar- f
t borough once a week. ! /
Leave Taiborough every Friday by 6 am, and ar- ;
I" riveat Louifburgby 6p m. Returning— Leave Louis- j 2
£ burc every Saturday by 6a m, and arrive at Tarbo-
rough by 6 r h. ~ _
? n)i f>uiu by W.jmrlnfftriiHgn,—t
and Kingflon to Newbern, once in two weeks. t
Leave Raleigh every other Tuesday by 8 a m, and
arrive at Newbern the next Friday by 10 a m. <
n Returning—Leave Newbern every other Friday by a
p m, and arrive at Raleigh on Monday by 6 p m.
r- 48. From Raleigh by Chapel hill to Hilliborough,
I. and from HilHbotough by Chapel hill and Chatham
it court-house to Raleigh, once a week. To wait two
_ hours at Chatham court-house.
Leave Raleigh every Tuesday by 6 a m, and ar. 1
rive at Hrtlfborough by 6 Km. Returning Leave I
l " Hillfborough every Wednesday by 8a m, and arrive I
at Raleigh on Thursday by 10 A m.
n From Fayetteville by Etiza'oelhtown, Belletort
» and Springfield to Wilmington, and from Wilming
ton by S. Wathington, Sareflo and Sampson court
id house to Fayetteville, once a week.
,y Leave Fayetteville every Tuesday at 6a m, and
arrive at Wilmington on 1 hurfday at .0 a. m. Re
turning —Leave Wilmington every Thursday 14AM,
and arrive at Fayetteville on Sunday by 5 PM.
50. From Fayetteville by Alfordion and Randolph
, r " comrt-houfe to Saliftmry, and from Saliftmry by Mont-
Cj gomery court-houle,' Anfon court-house and Rich
ce mond court-house to Fayetteville, once a week.
Leave Fayetteville every Saturday at 6 a m, and
p arrive at Saliftmry on Tuerday by 9a m, Leave Sa
-6 lifbury every Tuesday noan and arrive at Fayetteville
rv on Friday by 6p m.
51. From Newbern by Trentort and Richland to
Wilmington c*e a week.
Leave Newbern every Friday at 10 a m, and arrive
y- Wilmington on Sunday by 6p. m. Leave iVil
ek mingtpn every Tuesday at .0 am, and arrive at New
in. Bern on Thursday by 6p m.
m> SOUTH tS" NORTH-CAROLINA.
ck JB. From Camden by Lancailer court-hoofe, Char
ve iotae and Lincolnton to Statefville, once in two
Jr - weeks.
Leave Camden every other Monday at 6 a m, ar
rive at Statefville on Thursday by 6 r m Leave Statef
ville every other Friday by 2 t m, and arrive at Cam
lce den on Monday by 6P. m.
SOUTH CAROLINA,
53. From Columbia by Winulborough, Chelker
M > court-house, 'Pinckneyville, Spartanburg and
> P Greenville court-house to Pickenlville, and
M, from Pickenfville by Laaren. court-house and New
— bury court-house to Columbia, once a week : waiting
lr . one hour at each pofl-office on the r#ute.
lce Leave Columbia every Monday at 9a m, arrive 3t
at Spartanburg every Wednesday by 3 r m, arrive at
Pickenfville on Thursday at 4 p m, arrive at Laurens
r court-house on Friday at 4p m, and at Columbia on
Sundav by 6 p m.
54. From Columbia by Orangeburg to Charlcflon,
M, once a week.
M. Leave Columbia every Monday at 10 am, and ar
; a rive at Char left on on Thursday at 10 am./ Returning
OIU —Leave Charleflon every Thursday at zp M, and ar
rive at Columbia on Sunday at neon.
SOUTH-CAROLINA U GEORGIA.
A 55. From Edgefield court-house by Cambridge,
, Abbeville court-house, Pendleton court-house, Hat-
P ton.ford, Franklin court-house, Eiberton and Peters
' burg to Washington, and from Washington by Pe.
terlburg |nd Cambridge to Edeefieid ccrurt-boufc,
bv once a week.
>ufe Leave Edgefield court-house every Friday byß aw ,
arrive at Pendleton court-house on Sunday by 5 am
jrf- arrive at Frank'incdtirt-boufe by 7pm, at Petersburg
•nfe on Tudfday by 10 am, and at Washington by 5 *
j a ]_ M. Leave Wartiington tverv Wednesday ac'<6 am,
at Camb'idge on r l bqrfday by 10 a m, and at
field court-hoofe by 7 PM.
" a y 36 From Augusta by Walhington, Greenfburg and
Lexington to Geoigetown, once a week.
Leave Auguita Monday at 3 p M| arrive at
wn, Walhington on Tuesday by 5 PM, and airive at
>au- Georgetown on Thursday by 7 p m. Returning
wo Leave Geoigetown every Friday at 6a m, and arrive
at Augiifta bv noon on Monday.
y«t 57, From Gardens Corner to Beaufort once a week.
;6, Leave Beaufort every Thursday at ep m, and arrive
day 3 { Gardens Corner by 8p m. Returning—Leave Qar»
Fn- dens Corner every Thurlday at 5 a m, aod arrive at
Beaufort by 10 a. m.
Note I. Tie Pcfi filacer General may alter the times
by °f arrrva l an i departure at any time faring the continuance
jm- °f the contracts, be f>revr*ujly Jlipulating an adequate em
y6 f penfation fw any extra etepenfc that may be oecajioned there
h r
Nets 2. Half an hour Jbati be allowed for obenttig
aufc an d clofmg the Ala Hat all *fft:ee tuber eno particular tin# ]
Kate 0. Ftr'nebMr't dekl funawdai'eacdaentt
eccrfttdj*arnpng tfer thctxms Pjf r ' tcd '?W"£ A
trad, the Contraftor Jhall JtrJat one doaat, and if theie
lay continue until any
whereby the Mails defined for such |
a trip, an additional forfeiture of five dolors /halt
Note 4 Ni-wfpaper, as well as Let er, are to be sent ,«
in the Mail, ; and if an, ferfin making P r f/ jl 'Jf'
,o carry n-wfiaprr, oiler than thtfe conveyed ]
for his own ZHumcnt, be m,ft fiat. «Us
ivbat fun, be vsiU carry it nuitb that em.lam.nt and for
■what Jum ■without that emolument.
Notes. Should any Oerfjn making prof of als Jefire a
alteration of the time, of arriM departure abroefpe
cified, he m»l fate ii hi, fropofat, the alteration, 4W,
an I the difference they ludl make )n tic term, of hss on- a
'"tiote 6. Perfin, making proposals are d f[< d P
their prices in gross by the year, and not by the mile, g,
These who contrail -Ml receive their pay r <
" , , ~ 4 ■/ 't u u an j OHober, rn \
the mmfi, of fa'iuary, April, Ju.J ' .
drafts on tU pifi */F<*' pVf 'T rn I
Note 7 The CO,,trail, are to be in operation «K the frit t<
dry ./ Aprif net, and continue for four year, until IT
I the 31[i day of March incluftve, in the year lßoz. tl
JOSEPH HABERSHAM, 0 i
Pott-Matter General.
G-enerai. Post OffiCs, 7 c.
Philadelphia, December iS, I 7971 i , „
r tuth&sti 4thr -
JUST RECEIVED,
(via New-York)
AND NOW OPENING, BY X
George Dobson, #
No. »J, f»uth Third street,
An exfenfive and general ailortment of
HABERDASHERY, viz.
Bsft LonJon mixt Pins Galloons and Ferrets
Common do. do. Worsted Bindings, aflbr-
Makenzie'sfupcr.patent ted colours
white chajiel Needles Imperial, diaper, ana. o
Nuns Thread no, 6to Thread Tapes
40, regularly assorted White Edgings \
Lisle do.no. 130 to jOO, Black nd coloured Chi- r|
regularly assorted nefe Ribbands j,
Coloured do * Sattin and figured do, ■,
Black sewing Silks Black Velvet, 1-4 to I2d '
Coloured do. and Twill Velvet & pelon Sattißs 1
Silk and cotton Wires French Cambrick
Do. do. Ribbands Scotch do. 0
Shirt Moulds and Wires gilt and plated t
Black bruffi Feathers " Buttons I
And a compleat assortment of Geods, suitable I
to the present and approaching season, at reduced b
prices Dec. 6. dtf_ v
Tin Plates, t
FOR SALE BY 1
SIMON WALKER,
Pine, near Hit'. street.
Mujical Instrument Manufactory,
167, Arch-street.
TO THE LOVERS OF HARMONY.
H si R P E R, ,
INFORMShis friends and the public, that he has
now ready for sale, a few of his new invented, i
and much admired fide boa»d Piano Fortes, with j
Pedals,patent fweil, fonopahant and French harp j
| {lop, which for fenfibilitv of touch, brilliancy of
j tone, {implicit) and durability of con'lruilion, the <
fnperiority of which,he flatters himfelf, a single tri
.' al will convince the unprejudiced judg4—As they j
at£ manufactured under his immediate i«lpe&ion, (
of the very be£ seasoned materials, he can fell on
reasonable terms
tuned, &c.
I N. B. Second hand Piano Fortes taken in ex- (
< change for new.
' nevemher 18. lawimo. 1
• Samuel & Miers FjJh&h :
J- ARE ttaiff oPE«iNa, 1
At thiit Warehouse, No. 27, Dock Street, afrelh <
assortment of Woolen and other goods, suitable to J
t the fqafon, seccivect by the late arrivals from Eng- 1
e land.
They have also for Sale,
t Lisbon
Sherry"and / In P"P<s,hhds. and quarter calks-
Port Wines, J
* Assorted queen's ware in crates, See.
10th mo- 23d. diwjjtawjw.
Samuel Pleafants ?ff Sons,
h _ No. 74> South Second-Jlreet,
HAVE received a iuppiy of Seasonable GOODS,
which they are now epening for sale, on
d reasonable terms. OA 27. —4W
FOR SALE,
e By the Subscriber, at his Stpre, No. 75, Sooth
Q Water-street,
A general afToi tment of China
e Ware
Black and coloured Sattins
Do. do. Lutestrings
Do. ito. Handkerchiefs
Do. do. fewing__Silks
~ Imperial and Hyfou Teas
Long and Jbort Nankeens
Quick Silver, in tubs
f. Holland Gin, in pipes
Assorted Glass Ware, in cases
White and brown Havanna Sugars, in boxes
Molasses, in ho^{head>
•r St. Croix Rum and Sugar v in do. >f§|P§S
d London particular Madeira Wine
d Sherry and Malaga Wines, in quarter calks
'• Red, yellow and pale Barks, in chcfts
>g Logwood. &c. &c.
noi>. 7. —tu&f4w JOSEPH SIMS.
" Frefli Raisins.
>n
D , A Small cargo, just afrived, and now landing
XA. at Chcfnut street wharf, from thefloopYa
ir- rico, capt. Halkell, confining of Kegs, Boxes and
ig Jars. A few Jar# of excellent Grapes, and sacks
ir- of foft (helled Almonds. Apply to the Master
on board, or to
Jos. Anthony Of Co.
December 19 §sl
, r e s Alphabetical Lift of Duties,
f c Payable by law on &I 1 Goods,' Wares, and Mer
chandize, imported into the United States—lateft 1
edition, to be fold by JOHN ORMROD, no. 41,
m Chfffnut-ftreet. Dec t6—d
'J This Day is fuoliihed,
Ms BY Mcff. Dobfoa, Carey, Campbell, Ric # and the
re . other Bookfellcrs,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
nd Elegant'ty printed on IVone paper, and Hot
prtjfed,
at By t°hn Thorripfon,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with each other, atjd with
ve that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
ir „ the prominent features of caeh Constitution, and
; clkffmg together their most impertant provifiens,
under the fevsral heajs of admimitration pwitfc
Kales and Observations.
"" By WILLIAM SMITH,
ijb- Of Soulh-Cnrolina,
re- L L. D. and member of the Congress of the
Unit jd States.
ing Dedicated to th» People of the United States.
<ijt\ N. 3. A few Copies printsd on an lpfeiior pa-
I per, at 3*4thsof a dblUr.
This Day Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of
Second and Chefnut ftretts,
» Price 3-Bths of a Dollar,
Observations on certain Dscuments
Contained i» No. V and VI of
" The History of the United States for
■ the year 1796,"
In which the charge of speculation against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secketakv of the Treasury, it SULLY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN Br aIMSEI F.
This publication presents a concise Hatement
of the base means pradtifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the chara&ers of those
parfonswhoarc confideredas hoilile to their disor
ganizing schemes. It also contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and Messrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venable, on the fub
jeet ot the documents alorefaid, and a fcrics of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton;. proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt,
that the connexion between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring confpiraey on the part
of the latter and his associates to extort money.
#5" A diicount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor q1 wholesale purchafer6, for
cash. Orders to be addressed to Mr. Youns.
IS■ ,
Yellow Fever and Peltilential
Diseases.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, in one vol. odtavo.
By William Young, Booi/el/er,
No. si, Second ftreet,the corner of Chelnut street,
(Price., in boards. 87 I 2 Cents)
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
A VIEW
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles established in ths elements
* of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN.M. D.
With an attempt to corredl fnne important er
rors of that work, and cases inliluftration, chief
ly fele<sted from the records of their praiftice, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br William Tatks & Chas, Maclean.
To which is fubj«ined, a Treatise on the ailion
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion for the cure of diseases of indirect debility.
Andadiflertation onthe fqurces ofEpidemicand,
Peftilentialdifaafes; in whichisattemptedtoprovs
by a numerous induction of fails, that they ne
ver arise from contagion, but «re always produ
ced by certain states, or certain viciffitudas of
the atmosphere, by Charles Maclban, of
Calcutta.
Nov. 21. slit
FOR SALE, Bit
Joseph Anthony & Co.
No. 5, Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Bourdeaux Brandy, ift and id
proof, Just landed
ajo bales of Bourbon cotton of a Superior quality
' 9 do. Surat, do do
' A quantity of heavy black pepper in bales
1 Bourbon Indigo of the firft quality
! High proof Jamaica ipirits
; Old London particular Madeira wine ?In pipes &
do. market do C qr. caflcs.
New England rum in hogfheada
' Genuine Holland Gin in pipes
' Claret in cases
' Speimaceti candles and ftrain'd oil
Prime Boston beef
Choice Halifax Salmon in barrels and half barrels
Do. Herringia-do do
Best Boston in Darrels of the fall fare.
New-F"K':ind tow l : ««n
I A few tons of Ruflia cordage
Ruflia feather beds
1 Clover and Timothy feed in ;a(ks
0 Long whale-bone
- No I, 1, and 3, Boston hi 1 duck
A few chests firft quality Hyson tea
Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and
An invoice of Dutch hollow glass Ware.
November 8. diw.
This day is Published,
At the Qffice of the Aurora, No. 112, Market Street,
| Price one.dollar afid a half,3
A view of theconduft of the EXECUTI VE in the
FOREIGN A'FFAIRS of the United Statss, connect
ed with the Million to the French Republic during
? the years, 1794, 5, 6,
1 By JAMES MONROE,
Late Minister Plenspotentiary to the laid Republic
Illustrated by his INSTRUCTIONS and COR
RESPONDENCE and other authentic documents,
h A very liberal allowance to those who bny to fell
again.
Dtcembcr 23. *6t.
School Books and Stationary.
W. YOUNG,
No. ci, Second-street, corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS now ready for sale, a very large affort
rru-nt of Enolijb, French, Latin and Greek
SCHOOL BOOKS Alft, such elementary books
on Science, as are generally read in the academics
and colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY PUBLISHED,
Sheridan's Dictionary, the sixth edition, in one
large vol. 8 vo price 3 dols. .
Ditto, Hrg» 11 mo price-nJtJT. 75 ets.
Ditto, common, price I dol. 50 cts.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing,
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Pasteboards,
fheathieg and blotting Papers; printed Blank',
blank Books, Wax, wlfers, and other articles, ef
the best quality, used in the counting honfe, or
public office.
£?" Catalogues of a miscellaneous collection of
BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be Jiad
by inquiring as above. 0&. 24. —.?aw4w
I LAW BOOKS,
'd Latest London and Dublin Editions.
II H. Ess P. RICE, Booksellers,
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
HAVE just received by the late arrivals irom
London and Dublin, their spring importa
tion, confiding ©f a variety of the lat«ft and most
approved Law Books, whic'o, added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the Rviftextenfive. collc&ion ev
'r ~ cr offeredfor sale in this country. They thei efore
' beg leave to notice, that from the nature of their
:*' connedicnsin Dublin, they arc enabled to lelllrifh
! editions (as they hive hitherto done) at the very
lowest prices. The following are among the latcit
l[, c publications.
Vefry, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 1
Peakb's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Rcjorts
' Bt , in the time of Lord Ha-rdwicke ; Flower's ProCters
Pradire in the Ecclefiaitical Courts ; Barton's
Treatise on f. Suit IB Equity ; Tidd's Prailice ol
the Court of King's Bench in Personal Anions, »
pants ccomplete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Crude
on Ufcs", modern Reports, 11 vols. London cdi
•ith '"h. and P. Ric« c.tpefl te receive by the fir# ar
ies> rival f ro m the 6th vol. complete of
ind p urn ford and Ball's Reports, the adpattof Gil-
Bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
■itb new pubHcations.
June
Wanted, to Hire,
j, « Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
" L the centre of the city—for which a gec»rou«
~s rent will be given; to be taken tor a year, or 06
' more for a longer term. th» Primer.
17. eotf