bftty UnitctJ States, ** PhUadeij. ihla Ibmly Advertiser-.
By John W. Fenno, N O, 119 Cbefnut Street.
A-umber 1893.J PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 11,1798. . [VOLC-MS XIV.
Xfje <2>ci3£tte*
"1 * ■ ■ "
P HIL ADEL PHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, OCTOBER ir. £
is
Received at the Encampment at Mailer's h
place, for the use of the poor.
October 7.
Forty dollars from Mr. Joseph Sanfom. b
One hundred dollars from Mr. J. M. Benois n
of Burlington, per the hands of Messrs. 1;
Robert Smith, junr. and John Grifcom. b
• Two hundred and sixty dollars from sundry v
inhabitants, of Burlington and its vicinity, ii
forwarded by the fame gentleman. v
Eighteen pieces of warm cloathing, newly g
made, from a lady in Germantown.
Four bulhels apples ; soar bufliels potatoes ; f
two jars excellent pickles and some honey t
froth Mr. Philip Mfrers, of Bristol town. ]
(hip. t
Fifty buftieli potatoes from Mr. Samuel ]
Richardet.
Oftober R. <
Five pair new blatiketts, from our worthy ]
friend I.E.H. of Haddonfield. J
A bundle of cloating for children, from a (
lady, by the hands P. Baynton, Esq. j
A bundle of cloathing, from an unknown ,
haed. i
Thirty.nine yards kersey and baize; 57 pair i
shoes, and several other articles, from fun- (
dry inhabitants of Frankford, per Mr. ;
Nathan Harper. ,
7i4.lbs. rye fkur, two elseefes, fame peas, \
and 44/3, collefted by MefTrs. Thomas, |
Enoch, ahd Isaac Henfey, from the in- ;
habitants of Mullicas Hill. ,
One dollar from a peffon unknown.
"Oftober 9.
A bag of shoes from Mr. W
Twenty coverlids from John Johnson, jun.
of Germantown
Twelve bushels potatoes from Mr. Justice
Shedz of Montgomery county, by the
hands of Mr. Dull
Five dollars from an unknown person
Five do. do.
Oftober 10.
Two large cart loads of potatoes, from
John Nixon, Esq.
Twetlty dollars from Mr. George Peddle.
A bundle of linnen from a lady
One hundred dollars from Mr. Thomas W.
Francis
A Tat cow fron a gentleman near the falls
of Schuylkill
One hundred and seventy-one cabbages and
3 quantity of Carrots from Mr. Thomas
Dodd
John Inficep 1 Com _
Jona. Robefan, >
Isaac K'~. Morris. J "" ' '
Matters' Place, Oft. 11.
DONATIONS,
Received at the Tents near Schuylkill, for the
use of the Poor.
Oftober 8.
Six sets of new babe cloaths, and one parcel
of new boys' cloathing, from a person
whose signature is S. B.
Twenty dollars from Mr. Isaac Austin.
One hundred and nine dollars from Mr.
Frederick Hubley, in behalf of several of
the inhabitants of Dauphin county, Le
banon.
Oftober 9.
Three large quarters of pflrk, 8 ptJHnd of
..butter, and a bag of Indian meal from
Mr." Jeffe Darlington, Middletown, Ches
ter county.
A waggon loasl of draw from Mr. George
Seitz, Frankford road.
Four boys jackets from Mrs. Kearns.
A bundle of cloathing from a person un
known in Coates's alley.
Oftober 10.
Sixty three pieces of new babe cloaths, fix
papers of pins, and a bundle of old lin
en, from Mrs. James Prime of Phila
delphia, at present in Newark.
Three bundles of very serviceable cloathing
from several ladies, inhabitants of. the
town and vicinity of Columbia, Lan
enfter county, forwarded by Mr. Peter
Thompson.
Six bundles of do. from several of the la.
dies of Reading.
One bundle of do. from Mrs. Bund.
One da. do. forwarded by Mr. Caspar W.
Haines.
One hundred bundles draw, 12 bushels po
tatoes, and a bundle of fervic«able cloath
ing from Hugh Lloyd, Esq.
Twelve gowns and 12 petticoats for chil
dren, from Mrs. Elizabeth Travers.
/One bundle cloathing forwarded by Mr.
Caspar W. Haines.
Six fuitsof new babe cloaths and a quantity
of old linen from a lady and her daughter
, in Germantown.
i One.bundle of comfortable warm cloathing
from Mrs. Ana Livezey of Roxborough.
Two bundles of do. from Mis. E. H. Mor
ris, Fairhill.
Fifty dollars from Mr. William Ti'.ghman.
1 By order of the Committee.
PETER MIERCKEN,
Southwark, Oft. 11. Chairman.
AURORA OFFICE,
OSoler 10, 1798.
Reports -having been circulated
fhrt IHE AURORA was not to be re-publiibea,
—The public are Jbereby refpe&fuliy informed
thai the war.t of ..hands alone has prevented it* re,
publication f.vcral.days ago; but that such ar
ranj-cme.its are now, rnaking as will srffure the ap
pfaraiKe of the piper in tUe course of vile present,
or tit firlt week cf the next nienth.
5 St
BY THIS DAY'S MAIL;
. i. fr
BOSTON, Oftober 6. fe
The late prevailing sickness, may be m
said to be far dissipated, that no fears need w
be entertained by any one of returning to o
town. Few new cases occur; and the town 11
is as cleanly as ever it was. Several families f(
have returned ; and others are coming in. ti
From Amsterdam, July 10. o
"On account of, 4 the difficulties fubfilling tt
between your States and France, which will tl
1 mod likely tend to a final rupture,' it is e
lately reported that a general embargo will f<
be laid in the French ports on all American ir
' veflrli, as also on all those that might put n
1 into the harbour of Flushing, in Zealand, o
which latter has been resigned to the French tl
r government by our treaty with the fame." g
[We did not knnw before, that the cef- w
! fion of Flufliiagto France was to be added v
' to the long lift of degradations which the
• Batavian Republic have experienced from S
their " dear friends and good allies," the h
1 French.] t
By an arrival yesterday. we received the n
" Madrid Royal Gazette," to 27th July, 0
f In the latest, the expedition of Buonaparte *
is spoken of as having the English possession
1 of India, as its prime objeft. The debark- y
ation of the French troops at AlexandrU t
1 gives iineafinefs to the Grand Sigino; but t
the advancement of the ftaff of the army to c
r the Pcrfian Gulph, from whence they are
" to proceed by water to the Malabar coast,
• is considered as within the reach of the Ge
neral's entfrprize. Admiral Nelson was in
'» the wake of Buonaparte before he reached
> the African coast ; and will render a good
" account "»f the French Slipping, whatever
may become of the army.
COMMUNICATIONS- i
Notwithstanding the doubts which havi *■
perplexed the minds of some the be ft men
• in our country, rtffpefting the conduft of
Mr. Gerry while at Paris, we can allure our
e readers, from petty direst authority, that
e Mr. Gerry's conversation is such t > com* ]
fort the heart of every genuine federalift. j
It is said that he declares -in the most unei 1
quivocal terms, that every thing depends ori j
the union of the people in supporting the r
n energetic measures of President Adams. In '
short the whole tenor of his coßTerfation is 1
ftatinchly federal, so that the Jacobins, whq '
had marked him for their own, are again ;
• disappointed.—Their prophesies concern- '
ing him, are like all the reft of their pro- 1
s pheties. If Mr. Gerry's popularity baS '
been impaired it is. a matter of no great J
wonder ; for so long as he was considered '
18 the favorite of the French and the chosen 1
one of the Direftory, how could it be '
otherwise ? It is probable that Mr. Gerry '
had a more favourable idea of the French '
and thier cause, than his colleagues, but he 1
has been long enough among them, tn fee '
r 1 them as they really are ; and now like a true 1
ie patriot and honest man, he utters his fenti- 1
ments without reserve , and with joy be it
spoken, they are the very fame which have 1
el pervaded every state in the union, as ex
-10 prefied in the numerous addrefTes to the
President, they breathe a devotednefs to -
the exclusive cause of his native country, a
r - zeal for .supporting with one voice, the
constituted authorities, and, a determined
resolution to resist the dedroying angel of
foreign influence.
Mr. Gerry, has. we learn, given the Pre
-5' fident of the United States, ample docu
™ ments of the whole course of proceedings,
In France: and we are told, when the A
mericas public are put in pofleffion of all
> e the fafts refpefting the nejociation, they
will display such a scene of arrogant de
mands, insidious overture, canting mean
ness, and hypotritical whining, as will con.
firm every American in everlasting hatred of
French measures and Frenchmen. Talley
x rand, now appears an angel of light, to
3 " what he then will.
a " The embargo on American Teffels in
France, is enforced with great severity ; and
£ OHr sailors are imprifsned. Retaliation
1C on Frenchmen iri the Unitsd States, ought
N " immediately to be adopted.
er
From the Columbian Centinel. , I
a.
Expressions of the Public Will.
la a free republic, the public Will ought to
»• be the general guide. To afcertam that will, al
ways has been a desirable objeft: ; —that obieA has
3. been attained in the I"ni<ed<feites.—ltisfeen to be
a devotion to the ani; r: in of our country ;
and is evidenced in the immense chain of Adireffes,
which has united the Northern with the Soutkern
d" States, and closely connefled the people bordering
on the atfentic, with those who form the frontier
line, on the most extended lar.d bo-rd. In every
place the fame fire has elicited—the fame hett an
t imatcd ; —and the procefshas exhibited limilar en.
■y thufiafm, all pointed at one end and aim—the vin
er dication of American principles.
[from the originals.]
ig The inhabitants of the county of
h. ing a/fembled at Point Pleafsnt, on the 25 th
r- day of June, 1798, took into confide ration,
thep efentflate »f the ctmmerct 'f
n State 9, together with the threats of a foreign
invasion, and thought proper to choose a com
mittee, who produced the following Address,'
•which was unanimously agreed to.
To she PRESIDENT of the UNITES STATES.
SIR,
WHILE we, (the inhabitants of the
;d county of Kanhawa) feel our ourselves high
a, ly iatereftedin thepeaceandprofperity of our
ed country; wethink it aduty incumbent on us
c * at the present crisis, to exprels to you a
p a f er, fe of our readiness to ilep forward with
our lives and fortunes, again It anv hostile
invaders, in support of the laws ai d inde
pendence gf the United States of Amer ca.
Although a irontler country, remote fp
from the feat of government, the happy con- tl
fequenccs, resulting from a judicious ad- lb
ministration, we liaveand do experience ; fe
wi(h it may continue ; and we wait but the o
opportunity to convince you, Sir, of our fli
unanimous determination to support and de
fend, (as far ss in *ur power) that Confti- w
tutioa wiiith hitherto has been produftive te
of so filutary effefts. The insults offered fu
to the Anserican flag by the French nation— w
the depredations committed by them on our F
commerce, and a continuation of their ne*
farious praftices, we view with the highefc gi
indignation, and whenever it may be deemed F
necefTary by the Executive, we the people, v
of thi'3 county, pledge ourselves to you, Sir, tl
that we will grasp the avenging weapon, a
gainst those enemies of our country ;--nor g :
will we quit the£■/-//. until death obliges, er E
viftory piviclaims it uunrceflary. tl
We have the fatisfaftion to inform you,
Sir, that from the unanimity of sentiment
here existing, the flag of the French nation,
the emblem of Democratic phrenzy, vrill
i never be ereded in this country, (or any tl
| other part of the United States) if our ut- ci
• most efforts can prevent it.
1 Accept, Sir, our most fervent \vifh:s for
. your health, happiness, and continuance iu P
1 that exalted station, the fulfilment of thedd- e
ties of which, render you so dear to your
1 country. •
: THOMAS LEWIS, Chairman. v
, William Clendenir, "1 n
Allen Brior, | d
' .7# Bonn-t, ■ }. Committee.
1 Charles Donnaly, i
1 George Moore, J e
r Anfelm Tupper, Sec'ry. c
ANSWER
i Of the President of the United States to -
, ! the Grand Jurors of the county of UU 1
f Jler, in the State of Ntia-Ttrk.
t Gentlemev, 1
j I have received, with great pleasure, 1
J your address of the 14th of this month, and J
; I know not whether any that has been pub
j lifhed, contains more important matter or
1 jufter fentimenis. It must be great perverf T J
: ness and depravity in any, who can repre- )
l sent the late afts of government, and the c
, necefTary meafures'of felf-defence taken ky \
Congrefs, as a coalition with Great Britain. S
, It may be ufeful, however, to analyze oht
. ideas upon this fubjeft. If by a coalition «
with Great Britain be meant a return as co" [
9 lonies under the government of that country, 1
[ I declare I know of no individual in Ame-
j rica who would consent to it, nor do I be- 1
I lieve that Great Britain would again receive
. us in that ehorafter. Sure I am, it would '
jr be in her the blindest policy she ever con- t
i ceived ; for she has already the most incon- t
- teftible proof that she cannot govern us. If
e by a coalition be meant a perpetual alliance, 1
e offenfive and defenfive, can it be supposed
. that two-thirds of the Senate of the United >
t States, would advise or consent to it with- '
e out necessity ? Besides is any pne certain that 1
Britain would agree to it if we fhovld pro
e pofeit? I believe Americans ip general hare 1
o already seen enough of perpetual alliances :■ :
a Nevertheless, if France has made or flialll 1
e make herfclf our enrray, and has forced or 1 - '
d fhdll foice upon us a war in our de- '
,f fence, can we avoid being ufeful to Britain
while we are defending ourselves? Can Bri- 1
:- tain avoid being ufeful to defending '
i- herfelf or annoying her enemy ? Would it
1, not be a want of vvifdom in both to avoid
- any opportunity of aiding each other?
II Your civilities to me arc very obliging,
y and deserve my bed thanks.
:- (Signed) JOHN ADAMS.
1- Quincy, Sept. 26th, 1798.
>f CHARLESTON, Sept. 22.
r - The United Scates' brig General Pinch
o ne y> will be launched this morning, between
the kours of 6 and 7 os®tck, from the
n wharf of Wrlliam Pritchavd.
d Yesterday arrived the schooner Three
n Friends, capt. Cook, in 52 days frotn Ma
tt i
We are indebted to Mr. Joshua Baker, 1
paflenger and a very intelligent gentleman,
for the following information.—Eight days
before he left Malaga, a Greek Polacre ar
rived there from Malta, in 9 days
o The Polacre was at Malta prior to its sur
render to the French and was detained there
after they got pofTefion of it until they left
_ it, as was understood there, for Cagliari in
:s, Sicily.
rn The Greek capt. related that when Bu
onaparte's fleet appeared off Malta, three
of his ships were admitted into their harbor
n . 011 the requcft of the French Buccaneer, as
a. friends in a neutral port by permifiion of
n- the Grand Matter, and after they were in,
the remainder forced their way. A can
nonade commenced, which la fled seven hours
when tht Maltese colours were struck, and
' 3 the French substituted in their place by the
"j treachery of their own fo|diers.
As soon as the island was in their posses
■" fion liberty and equality cemmenced its usual
1' course of pillage and plunde', and without
't trouble transferred the wealth of honest la
bour to its vile invaders.
3 " About the 14th or 15th of July, the
French fleet failed from Malta for Sicily.
Buonaparte having garrisoned there 5000
of his troops, as the feenrity of hi-, con
quell and to enal(le the traitors of Malta,
to determi.ie the weight of the chains of
the devastator of Italy.
The Greek polacre left Malta with the
French fleet, a.d parted with them the
j" fame day, and the day after fell iu with
fp .ke Admiral Nelson's fleet, of 15 fail c.t |
the line, to whom he give information of
the bear nes and distance, which he fuppo- |
fed to be fifty leagues and he had no doubt j
of their falling in with them. The English
fleet went immediately in pnrfuir.
The reports at Malaga some days after,
were much varied, %Ut all the accounts sta
ted the meeting of the two fleets and the p
fuceefs of the British—seven fail of the line c c
were said to have been taken from the C J
French.
Five French pirates which were at Mala- 01
ga came out immediately before the Three ci
J Frieads, and a number of other American a l
, vffels, with intent of making prizes; but S
t the American vessels kept un-der the guns of ol
. the Tritoji, cSapt. Holtermsn, a L)ani(h fri
r gale, having under convoy about 30 fail of
r Danish vessels, and upon the approach of
the pirates, they received a falutethat nearly
( hulled one of them. Upon which they ran
t alosor fide of the frigste, j and promised j
t faithfully that they would mrlclt none but -j
1 the Americans, and received as answer from
j the Dane, that he would fink all those that
. came among the fleet.
In consequence of the embargo upon j,
v American vessels in France ; the French Q
u privateers out of Spain, had increased their j
i_ exertions—The fc.hr. Peggy, Tticker, be
ir longing to New-York, after having been
acquitted at Malaga by the French eonful,
was [tripped and had two additional prize
mailers placed on board—and will without
doubt be condemned.
The French are so supreme and dreaded
in Spain, that no minister or governor dare
even oppose the bare didum of a French
confut in their oftn territory. The Fretrch L
thetnfalves declare, that peace would be the
death blow to their profpefts, and that war
to —war with'all the world is their wish and
7- hope. _ I f
All that is nec-effary in the ports of ,
France and Spain for the condemnation of 'j
t} American property is to prove it is so.
d Extrafl of a letter Jrem Mr. O'Brien, the A
). merican eonful at Algiers, dated May 20.
)r "On the 13th in the morning# Haffan -
f. Bainaw bid us adieu, after a reign of fix
years and a half ; he was immediately fuc
,e ceeded by the prime minister Baba Muftapha, "
y who was proclaimed by tbe Divan on the
i. 9th
" On the fame day, we the Consuls, wait.
, n ed upon him, and were well received. The
)• new Dey said the Americans were friends to
r> the Algerines, and might rely upon his
.. friendfhip, but he mult have prefenta to
make it lading.
" On the 17th the American treaty was
d renewed, and the treaty with Tripoli and
ii the United States, was renewed and guaran
a. teed by the Dey."
[f Arrived, schooner Friendship, Rea, Te
f) neriffe 31 day?.
■d Capt. Rea informs, that accounts were
■d received at Teseriffe, of the surrender of the
island of Malta, to Buonaparte. He men
at tions also, that there Were three or four
0 _ British frigates,-cruizing off Teneriffc, and
ye two,days before he failed from Maratava,
. . a boai from one of them, with a lieutenant
jl'[! 1 landed with some French prisoners. The lieu- .
or tenant informed that admiral Nelson had
t j captured 7 fail of the. line from the French.
; n The incredulous jacobins will not however
ri- &' ve credit 10 any account that muit so ma- 1
tcrially injure their let them tarry :
,- t a little and they will get it strait in their j
id teeth for some of Buonaparte's fleet are
certainly taken, and very probably himfelf
g ) with ibem.
Tbe letters which were received from gen.
Pinckneyby the mail of Tuesday, were da
ted at Lyons, May 31. They mention that
the health of Miss Pinqkney was nearly ref
j,. tored—that gci). Pkickney would proceed
tn to Bourdeaux immediately, take passage for
either Boston or New-York, and pursue his
route home by land.
fe Ge«. Pinckney expe£ted to leave Bonr
a. deaux early in July; but extending the
time of his departure to tbe middle oi July.
NORFOLK, Oaober 2.
vs ' Extra <3 of a letter from a gentleman in Grena ■
ir da, dat-ed September 3.
x " The following intelligence is just come
ir . to hand, it may not have reached' America,
>re August 1, '9B, lat. 40, 14, N. boarded by
,f t his majesty's ship Aurora, capt. Digby, 8
j n days from Lisbon, who iufqfrned us of ad
miral Nblfofl'lfalling is with the French and
u . capturing 4 fail of the line, 5 frigates, and 1
ee destroyed their fltet of transports, with
~r 70,000 men, from Malta ;he further fays,
as that Buonaparte has made his.efcap« ia an
v f armed ship—.The above intelligence was
brought by a vessel arrived at Martinique and
n _ sworn to before gen. Keppell."
nd Troclamation.
he TJY virtue of a precept from John D/Oox»,
I I Efq«ire, prelident of the court of Oyer- and
: f. Terminer and general goal delivery for the trial of '
, a l all capital and other offences in the county of
Bucks; and Henkv Wynkoop and Fuancis
ut Mnur, judgesof thefame court —A court of
la- Oyer and Terminer, and general goal delivery,
wili be held at Newtown, 111 the said county of
he Bucks,on Monday the .Sib day of Nc,v:mber rext.
v All those who will prosecute agai»ft the prisoners
in the goal of faii county, arc required to be then
30 and there to (ball be juft—
n - and all the jufticesof the peace, coroners and con
ta, flables, within the said county, ire required to be
of thea an 4 there,in their proj-:r persons, with their
rolls, records, ir.quifitions and examinations and
, otl er their remembrances, to do those 'hiags which
IP rhrir offices belong, in that behalf to be
he done, &c. D.VNIEL THOMAS,fheriff.
id 0a.4, itaw
[ 1"lic (sa;ettc.
[ PHIL A DEL PHI A,
' I THURSDAY EVENING, OCTOBER it
At the late anrisal commenceaient of
: Princeton College, the degree of D. D, Vii
: conferred on the Rev. Uzal Ogden, bifiiop
e cleft of the State of New Jersey.
The degree of L. L D. was conferred
- on the honourable "Timothy Pickering, Se
- cittaryof State to the United States: and
> alio, on the honourable Jonatbau Dayton,
t Speaker cf the House of Reprefentativ«s
f of the United States.
; CITY HOSPITAL REPORT.
I For i ith October.
v
* ADMITTED.
L Joseph Jame3 Julius Yoft
' Ann Gay Mary Chandler
II Francis Callender Win. Goklfmith
1 John Evans
. DIED.
, n Nancy Armflrong, Rabert Clandinin,
. Sarah Davis.
Remaining in the Hospital 82, of whom
41 are on the recovery.
j 1 Intericd from cuy and fuburbsi 20
City Hospital ' 3
lt Total 23
PHILIP S. PHYSIC K»
Chrhstojher Dark ah, Steivtrd.
r . e By order of the Board of Managers.
J WILLIAM JONES, President.
Attest, Timothy Paxson, Clerk.
>e
* FORTY-SEVEN rew cases of the
prevailing fever, reported by 16 Phyfi< ans t
for the last 24. hours.
List of all the Burials in the fever.;! Grave
' Tards of the City and Liberties of Phila
delphia, as taken frO<n the books kept If
Clergymen, Scxtitft , £Sr.
in r
Names of the Burial Grounds, J -5
r; $
3 ' Chrilt Chursh .... 1 t"
ie St. Peter's .... 0 0
St. Pauls ..... 0 o
t- First Prtfbvterian - • - 0 o
ie Second Presbyterian - - - 0 »
; 0 Third Preibyterian ... ° o
; 3 Scots Prelbyterian - - - °! o
Aflbciate Church - * - 0 o
0 St. Mary's Church - - » •, X
Trinity Church ... 0 o
33 Friends' ..... 0 o
id Free Quakers' ... * 9
1. Sweede r .... - • r
German Lutheran ... 5 3
e German Reformed Presbyterian 1 a
Moravians' - - 0 o
Baptists' - • • t>
re Mcthodifts' * * 0 o
ie Univerfalifis' .... 0 0
n- Jews' ..... 0 o
Jr City Hospital .... '3 «
ltJ Kensington .... 5 o
Coates's 0 o
a, _
nt T^talfor the last 24 hours jy &
u- _
j u Ten Dollars Reward.
TAESERTED from the Guard House in New
_L» Callle, this morning, Stspuen Bowden, a
a- private Marine, belonging to the Frigate United
; y Stat;s He isabou: 36 years of age, five feet ten
Mr inches high, fair complexion, light half, blue eyes,
born in England, and by trade a Brickkyer. Prior
,e to the sth of June, the date of his enlillment, he
tlf -Tefided in Philadelphia, where it is pobable he
will endeavour to go. Any person who will ap
prehend rh: f&id Jcf j rtcr, and secure him in any
jail within the United States, shall be entitled to
. " the above reward.
■ a " F. WHARTON, Capt. Marines,
at New Cattlt, OA. 8.
L j." Cj" A Quarterly Meeting of the
e Carpenter's Company will be held at their
! r Hall on Monday evening next at 6 o'clock.
1,8 JOSEPH WORRELL,
IVar ien.
!'" oftober 11.
' " 'SOUTHWARK.
OBober 8, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY
GIVEN, That the Commiflionersof
the Dillrift of Southwark have removed
ne their Hall to the usual place, commonly
;a> known by the name of James Litle's School,
by House, in consequence »f the rapid decline
g of the Epidemic Fever, efpeciaily in the
( d- vicinity thereof
n d By order of the Board of CommiJJtoncrt
nd 1 Wm. LINNARD, President.
th Attest,
j. Sj William Penrose, Clerk,pro tem.
an Oft ber 9 6t
'as Select £s? Common Council.
«d '"P'HE SeleiS Council and the Members elect of
A the Sdcd and Common Councils ar* earn*
estly refuelled to meet on Friday n it, p.-ecifely
® at 10 o'clock in the furrnoon at the Middle F- rry ■
on Schuylkill, in ordi-r to 'sceivethe returns of ;h«
tt judges of the JUedion, purl'uautto the directions
n( f of the aft of incorporator. 1c will be neceffjry
0 f . that a quorum of the two Councils be formed «n
G f i that day.—lt is therefore rxpeded that members
cl 3 wi.l he punilual in their attendance, agreeably 10
0 f thi» Notice,
ry, By order,
of Wm. H. Tod, Clerk S. C.
Ed. J. Coale, Clerk C-J' 1 .
ien- oflot-er 10 .«•
- Guardians of tlw the General
ul The adjourned 1 itl» inftaut, u
eir Board to Thurfdajj-fonfeq* etce C ' l cor> "
ind further poftri-, prevailing tever.
>? R M lERC KEN, P^dcnX.
he .1- 1 f-.r. L„ c
I / c ./*'*>£ ■' " The
I„ ne/ame ami by.the Authority of the Cob- b C
mo»wealtn ofVe^fylvam 1 of
B* THOMAS MIFFLIN*
Governor of the f«d (Woswfth, ptals
A PROCLAMATION.
it ha. been Rated to me by
V V the Prtfident and Diretfor. of the Bank ;
of Pennsylvania, That on the eight of Situ
day the fuft ir.Ha.it, the House now oCcup.ed y
the fail Bank, cstr.tno U ly called Cir P* nt , Thome
Hall, was burglariously c»ter«d|by Edwa
or villains unknown, and therefrom a Stetbe
able number of Bank Note, of ■««•«•
tionv aaJ denominations wer« stolen and carr.ea v
away: -to THE inteut that the perpetrator,
or peipetrators of b great a cnme. and the
1 acceffar.estheieto.maybedircr.veredandbrought
to condign punishment, I hav. deemed it expe
dient to iffbc this Proclamation BYr^''
inj and promffing a « kward of ONE l IIOU- Ti
U SAND DOLLAKS toany perlon, or perions,
who (hall discover the ysfpetrator, or perpetra
tors of the laid crime, or any oh them,or any
accfffary thereto, before or after the saul, t> be
paid on the conviilion of all or any of the often
dei-• \Ni) Ida hereby further offer and pro- 1J
®ife' A FKEK AND ENTIRE PARDON re fo.i
unto any one of the perpetrators, Or acceffanes w hof
a fore fa id of the c»mmilTiori of the laid crime, remo
who (hall make a : ull «nd fatisfaflory difcloftre j t(
of all the circumftauce»relaHve to the contriving
and atccinpUfeing the fame, and of the names
a.Hti places of abode of his or her afTociates, so 7
that such associates *ay be spprenended and days
conri.Sed: AMD all tfce fudges, Juftiees, She- the
riffs, Ci nSablts, and other Public £)ffirer» o wucr
this Comniciwealth (according to the duties < f bc rf
their refofOivs Rations) are hereby required and on£ £
enjoined i!c all lawful raewj to deleft ana
bring tc. • iltiee each and every perffln concerns
in contriving, or perpetrating the crime afore-
said. t
f GIVEN under fir/ hand snd the Great en
S.-al of the State,at Germaiwown, 'he 1
(h S.) third day of September, in the yrar of deav
otrr I.ord.onr »ho\ifandfeve»hundred W ;, Q
and nr.ely-e: ,h*. and of the Common- ,
wealth the tvvprry-third. ~
THOMAS MIFFLIN. bltai
By the Governor: as P
A.J Dallas. orth
Secretary »/ lie Ctmmtr.wtltl. dene
« 2
New Encampment. I earn
The Committee who fuperiniend the en- com
can pmcnt ?t Mailer's place near the Mill who
Pond on the Gcrmantown Road, about fidei
two miles from the city, refpectfully inform the
their 1 country friends that they (land in need
of ax immediate supply of vegetables and F
l!r- -.v for th us« of those distressed citizem Phi
who are flyfng from the present calamity. _
T. e committee flatter themselves that the
•fame liberality vrill b* found in the farmer,
and - others, to supply tKis Encampment, as (
has been to that ontheComsionsr.earSchuyl
kiil Itoih having the fame laudable objeft
in view.
Join In&cep 1 H
Jan. Robeftn V COMMITTEE.
If arte IV. Morris. J
Camp Matters' Place, LI
September to, '9B.
Cs* THE Committee are happy in hav
" ing it in their power to inform those citi
zmis who aie not in a situation to provide
for themselves and are desirOus to remove
from the city or liberties, that they are now
prepared to receive from 6to 700 persons at j
the Ercapmeut on Mailer's Place, in the
Northern Liberties where fucb persons will
be furniflied with comfortable apartments
and necessary provifionj during the present
calamity. * f
TENTS.
The committee of the guardians
of the poor, appointed for the fnperinten- j
■dence of <hc tents on Schuylkill, acknow
• ledge with gratitude and sincere fatisfaftion, B y
the gcrrerons liberality of donations they have
■ exp-rierccd. It is with defertice to pub
lic opinion, and public compaflion, that they j
inform their feeling fellow citizens, that they
. have near seventy prtgnant women, who
- will, ere th;y leave the encampment, fland At
in not only reed, but necessity of cloathing .
for their infants.—To mothers, whose hearts tx
ran beat with tcndne(s to their offspring—
To those amiable young ladies, whose best
and benevolent afFcftions are extended to
the fmilir.g babe —To fathers who have it
in their power, this refpetUul request is ad
dreiTed.
By srdet of the committee,
PETER MJERCKEN, Chairman, am
October 3, 1798.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
On the I'i m ifes, on Thmfday the nth inft.
it 1 -Mock, P.M. three alecaHt Otuations "
for con NTH Y SEATS, m(
C,';, M \IANDING views ot fevefal Genteel Q f
Country Scats, the river Delaware, and all .
the adjjcsnt country; frontirtg on the roaj <eid- '
ing Iron Franktort to Gcrmantown; about three at
quarters of a mile NW. from Frarikford, and three hi
fi.iai Gcrmantown. ce
On;. e f u hc lets containing thirteen, the other C(
INV o ft vtntetn acres each; or, if a larger <ju n'ity
of land SiouU be wantoj, the fublcribur can add P'
t-i 1 sill as msy bell suit the purckafers. kittle te
fR'S bl said retpefling th» situation of tliefe lots,
j, ro (Itfcrij'tion that can be given of them will
l,c cqi al to a view of the Ist' themselves. a|
The Land is in high order, chiefly 111 clover; and _
r the terms of payment will be rendered easy ta the
~urcli.6.n, ard made known at the day of (ale. r
All loaterinis for buildirg can be hed very han
. d" unl as cheap, if not cheaper, than anywhere
0 ft. The fubfcribtr will contrail to deliver flone u
ef • faperior quality to anyin the ceun'.y, for one c:
dcllar y-r peich.te the purchafcrs of the abovelots. 2
Any gentleman wifh.ng to view them before the 0
day of sale, will please apply to the fuhferifctr at j»
p., larm adjoining the lots to be fold.
' Wni DAVIDSON.
N. B. Will be fold at private sale, a handsome
FARM, containing from ao to 70acres, with
ftonedweil-ng-hoii'a, carriage house,
other necessary buildings. j
££ LET,
A Large con\Sst>ouession given ; 1
\'S High- finifbed huufc, No
tc ' 'A ilUr, with Coach bv Doc-
WILL,
. No
Relief of the Poof. $
The undermentioned persons are app >irtt
ed by concurrent resolutions of the boards
of managets of the Marine and City Hof-
pitals and guardians of the poor for the p U
pu pofc of relieving such of their fellow ci- Broad
r whofe lituatious render it improper one qt
for them to remove ta the encamprtients. about 1
. John Kehr, Peter Barker, * lld ab
. Peter M.ercken, John Hutchinfoa, ? enCe ,
s Alexander Steel, William Steven/on, bound
~ Thomas Mibone, John James,
.. Edward Gar Agues, ThomasSavery, _ f" 0 ' 1 .
~ Stephen Maxjitld, Rhea A c
a Nathan A. Smith, Paschal Hollingfwortb 1
r Daniel Doughty, John Teas. «
By order of the board of Manigirs of b " n 3
„ the Marine and City Hospitals. ' "
e Wm. JONES, Prefdent. V .y h
r- Attest there
J - Timothy Paxfon, Clerk. by th
*' By order of the hoard tf Guardians of l'uppl
a the poor• fieien
Z PETER MIERCKEN, Pre/,dent. f'>
btwit,
o- THE committee appointed by the above ai '."p|
N refoiution for ihe relief of such persons, g oo d
es whose fituati«3S render it iinprrt&icable to f ercn
,e > remove their fanilics to ihe tents, being rca- tance
re dy to enter upon the important duties of nulls
their appointment; i«form the piblic that 11
so they will meet on the zd, 4th. and 6th
nd days of each week from 3 to 6 o'clock, at t ouf(
ie- the Senate Chamber in the State House, j s a v
of wiiere the indigent of the above class will mant
be relieved* upon producing certificates from Pofle
" ! one or more refpedlable inhabitants who con- tnedi
tinue to rcfide in the city or Suburb« , that ®
r -. heir families are in such a fituatifin as to y
render it impropc - to remove them to the
!lt Tents. ... CI
>he The committee being fertfr le that no en
■of deav urs will be lacking in the committee's
red w>>o ftiperiiitead the encampments, to make
on ~ the temporary reftdence of the poor as inha- ,
bitants uho removed to them as comfortable *"
as possible; and believing that the removal u
of them from the city, may, under Provi- lO*
dence, be the means of flopping the prevail
ing disorder; are desirous as much ai puffi
ble to encourage it ; and therefore mdll
eameftly rcquelt their fellow citizens to re- f 0 |,j
en- commend none to them, but luch families, c i la )
I ill who from sickness or other important con- in P
jut fitlerations, are improper objects to receive
rm the public benevolence at the encampments Har
:ed Ed. GARRIGUES, Prefideut. _J.
tnd Peter Barker, Secretary,
ens Philadelphia, <)th mo. 19th, ,9ft. T
ty. mar
the FOR SALE, by to ' r
John Miller, Jun.
lyl- NO. 8, CHF.SNUT STREET,
jtft 100 hogsheads RUM,
Of high proof and Sue flavour
>q'T '9 §_ \
FOR SALE, ~ 1
CO\
The Cargo of the Schr. Sincerity in i
Benjamin Monteith Master, fron> Laguira, *
CONSISTING OP
hav- 945 Fencgas of Cocoa
400? lb. o{ Flora Indigo
~ alO Bale# of Cotton
V| d c 4 Packages of Goat
nove By Willings & Francis• T
now No. Eleventh ftre«t. A
us at july a: dtf wl
the —~~ ■ "
will Madras and Ventapaulem atl
tents HANDKERCHIEFS,
:fent Searfaukers and Carradarries, ye
•f th« newest and mod approved patterns,entitled
to the drawback, just received,
an» for sale by
Ale*. J. Miller & Co.
Lans No. 64, South Front street. Oi
iten- may 18. §
"pw- FOR SALE,
hon, by subscribers, no nmNTu^THir,
nave jg Bags Freili Cloves. Ti
P"' 3 " Hillings is* Francis.
the y june tq. dtf
It LANDING, p „
land At South Street wharf; the cargo of the fliip Con- ru
neilicut, from Batavia— of
About 300 tons of Java Coffee, ci
!g ofthegtowthof I794and 1795
bell 60 tons of Java Sugar, g ,
>d to lncannifters—for sale by ' on
ve ; t PETER BLIGHT, ar,
, who also errißS rax iali,
8 a 150 hhds. choice Jamaica Sugars m;
Jamaica rum in hhds
Brandy id and 4th proof in pipes, hhds.
man. and quarter calks
Madeira in pipes
Old Batavia Arrack
iu'v 1 § _
iue, Q AllTlo N.
inft. "T ~\T HERE./VS a certain perfonfwindlcd
itions W from me on the firll inft. by givi- g
mc iulieu thereof a forged check 011 the Bank ne
lid'aU North Africa, a note of that date, drawn or
|,. , d . in my favour by Mr. John Travis; and pay- w
three able in fix months, for three thousand four
three hundred asd fifty Jeven dollars and forty-fix j
cents. ALL persons are desired not to .re- Si
ot r . er ccive aiiy tran«ier of it, as it will not be ~
m add hy either *e drawer or endorser unless
kittle recovered by law. 1
e lots, WILLIAM NICHOLS, "
II wiu Race Street.
r; and ?»g u(t 6 " -
t» the public are hereby informed, fv
yhan- did not mean to authorise Col. Wit- I
where i ' am ichol'' to declare, that I would not pay,
r done on'efs rtcovered by law, my note alluded to in hii
or one caution of the 6th of Auguli, published in the Ga- ~
ivelots. zetteof the United States of lail evening. I Cn
,re t v, c cerely lament his lols, and t.ld him I would do
•lUcr at 1 could do confidently with my credit to serve
him, bHt went no further. 1
; 0N JOHN TRAVIS. <■
ndfo'me 7 5_ '
house & W ante d—A situation in aPub
' lie or Merchants Office, or to go as Supercargo,
by » person regularly brought up to tiie Mcr-
cantile and Infurancc bufineis in London, he has
lately been a voyage from hence to the WelJJn
,n . dies as Supercargo, can be well recommended,
' —Please to enquire at the Printer's.
Jic - Ng aug.,ll 11
v Doc-
lis— A House to let,
,/■» In Fourth flrtiet, next doir to the Indian Queen.
Enquits of Roctßf Smitu, No. jB, South Front
J july if
so be Sold, at private Sale, j
A Plantation and Ti act of Laud j r j H,
CONTAINING MS acres, iitoate inAVhite- , X re
martti towiilhip, in thecounty of Mof.tgora- | wntil tl
try, about 15 miles from Philadelphia, and 00 j nathaa
the public road leading from Plymouth by the j lench
Broad-Ax tavern toward Horfham, and about ma, ai
one quaner of a mile from laid tavern, alt' ryland
about the ljme diUance from the Skippaek roa clpacki
and about the firnc tli lance from the late reh viz.
dence of James Monis elq. deeealed. It 1
bounded by lands of Anthony M jrris eq. J 1 .
cob Iteiff and Detweiler. About ten acre? aw ' ;
good watered meadow, about ij or .20 ate un |
derctever, asd about 35 acres are well timbered •
!j The buildings on the above farm confut ot a j
two-story stone dweHiUg-houfe, a lar s »e ll'*it .
f barn an<V stone spring-house. fheiev-s a:io or
the premises a young orchard oi about 130 ap
pic tree*. 17,
Th s farm has great advantages of wa'er, as J
there is a., excellent never-failing dream pallinj *
by the house and barn, in such a mariner as t
f supply the fame as well as every field with a lu. J
ficient quantity. . I ~
The spring over which the fprmg-hou.e 1, •«
built, is excellent water, and is also very neat j
and convenient to the dwelling house. j
e The fituatio-iof this place is healthy and in -' J
'» good neighborhood, and is n-ar to several Jil j
0 ferent places of worship, and within the nil I
i- twice of half a mile from two grill and la«
if mills, also near lime-kilns.
lt This farm will be fold together or divided in I
1 to two parts, as may suit the purchaiers. Alu I
a two-florv ftene house with a barn and carrjag- j
U house and lot of land situate on Chefnut-hnl. 1 I ,
e ' is a very high and healthy situation, and com- I
11 mands a vervextcnfive and beautiful prolpe<3 I
m Pofleflion of part of the house may be had im J
n- mediately. I
a , For further particulars apply to Henry Pratt,
No 94 North Water-street Philadelphia, or to 1
0 CHRISTOPHER HETDRICK, lfl
ie on Cbesnut-HUI. I tqua
Chefout-hill, august 14th, 1798. wtr j ably
,l " ' NEW-CASTLE. 1 '' a , l . l
SALES at AUCTION. ft*
The Cargo of the brig Diligent, capt. J
L* Crouen, jufl: arrived from Jamaica— up-1 the f
' 1 wards of J de,ei
,i. 10© hhds.high proof Jamaica Rum,
a. Two lihds. of Sugar. J
y The c'argj of the brig Diligent wil. be put nf
~ up at Public Sale on Saturday, 13th Oaotftr, I
the present month at New Caiile, and will be I
re ' fold in lotts of tto 5 hoglheads to fiit the pur- j
es, chafers —for approved notes, 'or drafts, payable J
z ™
ts Harmony Half, near Germantown. J •
oflobtr 3 - J so t
Bank of Pennsylvania.
THE Bank of Per.nfylvaiiia is removed to Ger I
mantown, —where the bufiEefs will be tranfa£ted I '''
to-morrow, in the Union School House. | the
JONATHAN SMITH, Cadiier. I the
srmemher 4 § I
notice. m P n u
Bank of North America, fh a
AuguJ} iSth, 1798. |at 1
C ry-iHOSE Perf»ns who hive N»tcsoi Bills to pay I t
X at this Bank are informed, lint
That regular Notices will he put under a sealed p rt
cover directed to the refpeftive payer and lodged t he
ity in the Po#-Oilice every Monday until the return ~t j .
oftheciiizens. , . nia
RICHARD IVELLS, Caji.m,-. onJ
aug. 19 j
WILLIAM M'LAWS,
SADLER & HARNESS MAKER, c lc
HAS Removed to the Corner ot Chelnut I
and Twelfth-ftreets, on the Commons, j
: where he will receive and execute the orders of I
his friends and wholesale enftomers, with usual j
att«ntioLn& expedition during the prevalence of
the present Epidemic, wheie it has not made its
appearance this ftafon, nor during any of the
> yearsp. v
itled august is • I
To be Sold, at Public Sale, J
On ths premises,
eet. On Tuesday the 23d day of QSober, 1798, at
§ half fajl two o'clock, in the afternoon,
Several very elegant Situations for
»t, SUMMER RETREATS,
Three and an half miles from the Court house near
Frankford road, being part of the fubferibor's
eflate.
These situations are considered in
' point of health, beauty and elegance, equal to any
Don- near the city ; commanding a very extenlivc view '
of the Delaware, the (hipping in the harbour, the
" ee City, Harrowgate.Frankiord, and fcveral elegant
' country feats.
Any person desirous of viewing the
grounds, will please ap; ly to HENRY HAINES
' on the piemifes, or to the subscriber, at Mr. Rich-
T, ardet's coff'e house, Germantown.
The terms, which will be easy, will be
made known at the time of sale.
Should the weathjc prpre bad on the a
br.ve mentioned dayjthe lile will take place on the
next fair day ,atithc fame hour..
W. MACPHERSON.
oAober 9. dtX3Q
Pcnnfylvania HofpitaL. a
9 mo. 1, 1718.
. Xjo psrfoa with an infecftious difeafc, can be
v|r £ IN a. i mil ted into this house; it is therefore ear
lank neflly recommended to the cicizerts, not to fend j
awn or bring any such patient to the gate, who is ill Gl
pay- with the prevailing feyer. Several perfuns having fn[
K been sent here improparly, is the reason of giving &
°\' r this caution. ' of
y- ix By Order of the "> FRANC!S HiGQINS,Su-w'd.
o.re- Sitting Managers, 3
tbe FSR. SALE, ,
nlefß \ on the roai leading to State Idand,
£1 within four and an halfmilej of Philadelphia,
Q containing 45 acres in the highetl lUte of cultivaiion
' aeres ot which is m«adow, the remainder up-
Iwd. 1 here areon the premises, a new frame House
and Barn, with an excellent kitchen garden, contain-
ing a great number of frit Treei.—lmmediate poffef
tied, fion will be given. Q
yrji. For terms apply to
t pir> Thomas W. Francis,
in l,i,' | U lviß Nn. qßSou'h Third ltree»
FLOUR FOR BALL '
ild do £ y the Subftribrrs,
, serve Deliverable at any of the ports on the Dela
ware—who have also on hand at their (tores, a
r IS. quantity of Bar Iron, Pork and Corn—Letters by
5 the will be attended to.
Levi Ho'lingsivortb & San.
' U "' august i 3. dtf
: °Mer- This Day is Published, J
hehas ANoroasAtaay j.hsns, h9,chesnut-i-> rut .
efjrln- AN ADDRESS j
ended, f 0 the People of Maryland,
ON the origin, progress and prelcat state ,of '
_____ French aggreQiob, with a (ketch of the infamous
attempts t« degrade the Government of the United
_ States, and fotue reflection*on the late proceedings
Queen. - n c on g re s s . wr ittenthe last of April in the pre
sent year, by a Member of the Houi'e of Reprefen-
J 2 S tatives. § junen
j Pub fie Notice is berd'jy Ghat,
j r ¥ , UAT Prapofals under fealedeovers, will be 13 n1
I X re«eived on the behalf of the United States
I until the twentieth day of OAobtr next, by Jo- ,
t nathaa Jacklon, Elq. at Boston, MafTachufetts,
j Tench trancis, Esq. Philadelphia, Pennfylva- riCS.
nia, and John Swann, Esq. at Baltimore, Ma
ryland, far supplying the following articles ot
cloathing, for the army of the United States,
viz. I
FOR INFANTRY. G^or;
: 8,448 Hats, Trop
504 Serjeant Coats Aecn
• 504 ditto veils houle
• 1,c03 pairs do. wooUett overalls er y f
1,008 ditto do. linen ditto eight
; I 1,016 ditto shirts
164 Muficims coats '
J 7,6X0 Privates coatcs *
t 1 7,944 ditto vests . se l
15,588 ditto woollen overal.s
ditto linen ditto
I 31,776 ditto lhirts Thf
] 33,791 pairs of Socks
I 33,7 pairs of i-iiucs an ®
1 i 8,448 llocksof black leather on IV
' 8,448 ftockc.alps
, J 8,448 blanket.. J mi .
FOR -CAVALRY • the n
1 I 6 Mialiciaas coats
* I 16 Serjeant coats fe]
16 ditto vests
1 J 104 ditto fhirw
1 I 348 Privates coats _
\ 354 ditto veils Cor f
1416 ditto shirts
I 760 pair of Leather breeches Maj
760 pair of stockings Sc
1 | 760 pair of feoots
s Bo Stocks of black leather
'■ I 380 Stock clasps A
' 1 3SO Btenkets.
ift. Every article shall be made of material*, ven
I equally good, and in form, or falhion, contorm- the
tt j jbly to "patterns for the lame, sealed with the.
I l'-al of tlie War-Office, and; which will be de-
I pofittd with the several gentlemen, empowered
Ito receive the piopofals, as above mentioned. '1 '
'• I ad. Sworn infpeilots ~shall be appointed on |_
P - 1 the part of the United States, to examine and w h o
I deternuee upon the ieve/al articles atorefaid, jj n
j when the fasae (bail be ready for delivery, with .j
---' I full power to rejefi every article, which (hall net em |
! equal, in goodneU of materials, or to be inacU
, Ut j conformably to, the falhion of the llandard pat- any
b,! I tern for the fame; and no allowauee Shall be s eC(
Jr e . 1 made, for any article which (hall be rijeftea by Sto<
ale 1 them, for the causes aforefaid. Tht
I 3d. The proposals muftfpecify the number of
I articles, and their kinds, which the party is
I willing to furniia, together with, the Idweft ,
I prices for immediate paymey in money, aadal- I
i—l so tie prices, on thelongeft term, or terms of J)
I credit.
er . I One third of each, and every of the several
ted 1 kinds of the above articles, to be delivered on /yj
I the fifteenth day of December, one third on
I the fifteenth day of January, and the remaining j™
5 I third on the firftday ef March, next; and the
I public will not be considered as bound to receive
I any of the aforefaid articles of cloathing, which
j lhall not be ready for infpe&ion, and delivery, we
j at the periods agreed upon,
pay J 4th, The cloathing aforefaid will bt received G*
in the fc»Wl states, at the places, and in the
iled proportions following, viz. One third part of re<
Iged the whole at Springfield, Maflachufetts, one
;urn I other third at Philadelphia, state as Penafylva-
nia, or at Lamberton, state of New-Jersey, and
on» third at Baltimore, Maryland.
1 jth. No contrast will be made, for a less H
| number of each of the aforefaid articles of J
c loathing, than is requisite for a company, via llc
[hut FOR TILE CAVALRY. Ui
|iw, I 4 Seijeant Coats i»
"s of I 4 ditto vests pr
ifual J x 6 ditto shirts ar
e of I j Mulician Coat 01
e its 58 Private coats
the I 59 ditto veils in
436 ditto shirts
J I 63 flasks ol
I 63 stock clasps si
is 6 pair of leather bre«che« . ci
116 pair of stockings _
1/1 pair of boots
63 blankets
FOR THE INFANTRY. j
i, I 70 Hats 1
near 4 Serjeant coats I
r's 4 ditto vests
8 ditto woollen overalls C
[Jn 8 ditto linen ditt# J
16 ditto shirts y
, the 64 Private coats
gant 66 ditto vests
131 ditto woolen overalla
the *3® ditto linen ditto.
NES * 6 4 tto Shirts t j
lich- »8o pair of Socks ft
aBo pair of Shoes,
1 be 70 Stocks, ,
70 Stock Clasps, w
ip a- 7° Blankets. tl
JAMES M'HENRY, tt
Secretary ef War. „
War Department, ?
[O 21ft Sepf- 1798. > hi
ti
Arrived in the flip Pcnnfylvania, Capt. Wi L
-18. li am son, from Hamburgh, now lying at
Chejler.
e "' PA Number of .GERMAN SERVANTS, men,
fend r\_ wsmen, hoys and girls, amongst whom are
is ill Gunsmiths, Carpenters, Turners, Taylors, Black
v'."6 foiiths, Gardeners, Masons, Coachmen, Huntfmea,
iving Sic. See. whose time of servitude is to be disposed
of on board the Ship, by
rw'i. QURNET V SMITH.
auguft 18. .SF _
land, Bengal Goods, n
pliia, consisting otr
aiion BANDANNA HANDKERCHiEFS,
r up- Chintz Coflas Maharazgungy
ioule Chintz Guzziaasj Tookereys
itain- Eliabad Baftas Wrought Muslins ■>
'offcf- Long Drawers
Coarse Sugars in bags, fit (or the European aiarkets
also, ,
Carolina Indigo t
get< Coffee in hoglheads
A few pipes of very old and very choice Madeira
WINE ,
For £ale, on reafouable terms, by
Dela " John Ceaig,
'"bv No. n, Dock-ltreet. ]
y july 14 . mwstf
n. Notice is hereby given,
|f THAT application will be made to the Treafii
ry of the United States, for the renewal of the
following Certificates of Six Per Cent Funded
R,IT Stock, (landing in the name of J<,bi Carbon ill, of
London, the said Certificates having l<e:n 101 l on
board the Swallow Packet, Captain Kidd. from
ate of Falmouth to New-York,
amous Ao. 3072 I Cert, for 20G0 dolls.
United 2964 I do. JOOO C
xdings 10,J77 I • do. .3000 J
lir' A Mllwgs V Francis.
£II PhiWdphia, iiigti? 35,
CASTOR OIL
. Is much wanted ; Those who havtf
' it to dispose of will find a ready fate
by applying to any of the Apotheca
■ ries. _
• ~ POST-OFFICE.
Philadelphia, September 16.
' r "pHEMail for New-Castle, Carttwell bridge,
-L D'irk creek, Dover, Frederica, Milford,
George-town aßd Dag&orongh, Delaware i
Trop and Snowbill, Maryland, Horn Town,
Accomack court-house, and Northampton coart
house, Virginia ; will be closed at this office ev
ery Monday, WednefnayandFriday at half past
eight o'clock, A. M. until ift day of April,
ROBERT PATTON.
September 16 dut
Bank of the United States.
Philadelphia, September »I, ij l )^
The pubiic is hereby informed, that
an Ofilrc of Bepofit and Discount will be opened
on Monday next, at the house lately occupied by
Sa.mu»£. Richarbet, near the Market House in
Germantown—where the bufincCi of this Inftitu*
tion will 6c tranfa&ed during the continuance o»
the malignant fevernow prevailinginPhilartelphia,
HENRY KUKL, AJJiJlant Cajhitr.
geptember 11 d
Wanted ; aPerfon
WHO will to supply the Marine
Corps, with ratioss, &c. Apply to
W. W. Bursowes,
Major Commandant of the Marine (lorps.
Sept 19 $
Wanted to purchase*
APPROVED bills on AmfterdJm, for which ,
cafl) will be gi fen at the rate of thirty fe
i, ven cents per Guilder, Apply to the Calhier of
11- the Bank of tl)e United States,
ifc, September
c e d For Sale.
THE S'JbscrioKK, intending to decline the «
DRUG BUSINESS, offcr3 For Sale,' the
1 d whole Stock of
d > Drugs and Medicines, Instruments,
l '' The Ihop is elegant, commodious, aud fuffici
et cntly known for the extensive butinefs Cont in the
wholefale and retail line ; the situation equal to
ll " any in the city, being at the coiner of Walnut and.
be s eC ond ftrcets. The whole, or any part of the
by Stock, will be fold, as will best suit the purchaser.
The terms may betoiown, by applying to
of JAMES MOORE, juk,
is Win has For Sale,
ra ' for the river trade—
H ThePfiGGY, about 30t®nsburthen,
; B g Mulberry and Red C«!d r frame, and remarkably
t j, e stout, of an easy draught *f water, rigging in
ive BooJ8 ooJ orJer *
ich The Sally, abont 3# tons, failft
xy, well, and in complete order for the lumber bufinefe.
$0" All peifons indebted to the late firm of
ved Gtldthwait JtaUzuin, W. B. Goldtbwait, CtoUi
fhe iLwait I 3* Mtorr, or the subscriber, are earnestly
■ o f requeued t« make speedy payment to
one JAMES MOORE, jbm.
Iva- a "g t " t 3 !
and Ship & Insurance Broker,
l e s s ' I 'HE Sublcriber, encouraged by the advice
, 0 f X of his friends, offers his fcrvice to the pub*
lie as a Ship and Insurance Broker. H« pro
poles tb buy and fell veflels and every thing re
lating thereto—assist mailers of veflels and other*
IB entering and clearing at the Custom House,
procuring and shipping freight, fettling Insur
ance and ill other mercantile accounts, and have
on hand the necefi'ary Blanks and Stamps.
Papers in foreign languages tranfiated, and
information given in general mercantile matters
—From a gained by long experience
of every branoh of business he hopes to be ufe
ful to those who please to favor him with their
„ commaads. SAMUEL EMERT.
Philadelphia, august 14th, 1798. §
City Commiffieners' Office,
August 30, 1798.
IN puifoance of an ordinance of the Seleit and
Commas Councils, passed t he 2id day of May
1798,
Proposals in writing will be received by the City
Comr..iflio»ers foronemanth from thefirft of Sep
j tember next, far letting to rent on leases for one
year, to ce iimence the tirli day of Januajy n«t,
the following public property of the city—
The wharf and landing on Vine ilreei,
Alio on Saflafras,
Mulberry,
And High kreets.
Chefuutani 1 Walnut flreets, Drawbridge, with '
the Scale and Fish houses, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
streets.
The Cellar under the City Hall.
The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill, ,
with the lots contiguous thereto (except lo much
thereof as shall be occupied by any buildings erec
* ' ted for the use of the Colledorof the Tolls, or be
necessary for the toll gates.)
A Hated meeting of the City Commissioners will
_ be held at die City Hall every Tucfday morning t
L . ten °' do - k ' <iur " l fifbe prefect epidemic. coim
, £ at James C. S3 5 Saml. W. Fijher,
No; 13 Arch-Street,
men, Have Jer Sale
1 are 300 Calks best refined Salt Petre
lack- Best London Window Glass from loby Bto
mes, iibyio
posed Ditto Glass War* in Calks assorted confiftintr
P' ut and half-pint Tumblers, Wine
j. Glafles, Goblets, &c.
~ , A Bal « °/ lr Re d. White and Yellow Flan
nels, Baizes and Kendall Cottons i
j" ne 27 : jawtf
ADVERTISEMEI^T.
VrTHEREAS JamisCummino SS* Co. late of
irkets k , Cl '/ of Philadelphia, mirthants, have
afligned ove- all their effeS*, real, personal and
mixed, to the lubfcribers, for the benefit of all
their creditors, who ft.ll fuhferibe the said assign
ideira date hereof. S
NO 1 ICE IS HEREBY GIVEN t* r
who arc indebted to the said estate' that h
required to make inrn,ediatekjh^f I \te« f :
eet. Dock D "reet " their
v «f will be instituted ior\he recUTr■ « fu^/K
are not discharged accordingly V 1 f " th d6bts M
reaf.,- 7° h . n 7
of the J ohn Haddington, I
unded James Taylor, rAlligtlMS
of 0 Cornelius Comejrys I
oil un 1 august 18 -*
, from mwftiD
TO BE SOLD~
| time of an indented Dutch Servant BOV
A who has ten years to serve h, fl'
1 . StetKS is'"*"" ■'
0