'
ette of m tßnitets States, AND Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
By John Fen no, N° no Chefiml Street.
—i— . _____ .
' ——'— ; —— — —— : —r \ —~ * 11 .. . —— *
KVMML* 1675.] PHILADELPHIA-. MONDAY EVENING, JAMJART 22, 1798. (T 01.-jmk XIII
Custom-House Sales.
Philadelphia, January 13, 1798.
OV Monday, th,e 39th of January, 1798, at 1,2
o'clock, wtl! be 'old bypublic auttioa, at the
Cuflom-Jioule, in pDffoioce of the Jaws in that cafe
made aod provided; the following articles of mer
chandise., havisg bepn ftgred more than nice months
and not claimed by the owners or cor fiances thereof;
■which aiticles may be viewed during the fp-.ee of
three day# antecedent Jo J:h&£&y gf'Ju.c, beuvcuu
nwe-and fc.
FCP Two cafe#, Woollen Hats
Mp<i One cafc, coataniiug Books and Pamphlets
H P Three casks, containing Girth Web
(I>U) One cask, containing Specks and.Shovcli
W Four caik?> containing Garden Seeds, Peas
P and Beans
IS One keg of Red Lead,
<> AYC One crate of Earthen Ware
BTM Two do. do.
WL One do and two
onaments for buil3*«
[No me.-kj Two Hampers of Bottled Portfer
fcigbt Hampers of Empty Battles !
WB One cask of Bottled Porter
Tho's Ste r liens One bundle, containing pieces of
Mu'i-
Mr.Scott. Orte box containing aid. Pamphlets
Ms Au'plsy One box of Pamphlets
WA ITiree pipes Madeira Wine
One box of Pewu.r Lamps
B One box containing
G. Eollar.d. One calk containing aod some
oitjneai , ( „, ir .
yR. One crate of Earthen Ware
K. Onecrareof Earthen Ware.
J*n» 13
Marfhai's Sales.
United States, \ ~
Pennfyhania Dtftria. J
.TOI'ICE is-hereby jfiveH, that ih purfuanee ps
CTf" a writ to ms directed, by the Hon. Richard
Peters, Esq. Judge of the DiftriA' Court of the
United States, in and for the Peonfylvanii I>if»
. ttiA, will be exposed to Public Sale at the Cnfloai
heufe, on Monday, the 19th day of January in!l.
jt.u o'clock at noon,
1 box of Sugar
2 bags of Coffee
1 barrel,
t half barrel, and £ of Limes
I tu4» j
zjwtof Heney
26 Pine Applea
» kegs of Spirit 3
1 keg. of Sugar, and
7 batrels and one half barret of Sugar
TJie fame having been- libelled against, prot
ested and condemned as forfeited, ia the said
Court—by
WILLIAM NICHOLS, MarJbal.
Marftal's Office, ">
17th January, iroS. I - ZZZ
Philadelphia & Lancaster Turn-,
pike Company.
January 4, 1798.
At a meeting of the Prcjtdtnt and Managers,
' this day, a dividend of 5 dollars per share was
■ declar d far tbelafi half year, which will be by
them fetainf f, far the payment of the debts of
the Company, agreeable tea rffalutior. of the Slock
•holders the xith June I*ft.
TENCH FRANCIS, Treasurer
Of the Philadelphia & Lancajler TurnpikeCom'py.
Jaruari S m&w&w
To be Exchanged tor
Britijh, German, or India Goods >
IN THE PACKAGE ;
A trail of valuable Land
In Lycoming, joining that of the Holland co.
and containing io,cco Acres.
Inquire of the Printer.
J"i. 15. §
Just Published,
"And to be had at the Book-stores of iVJeflrs. Dob
son, Campbell, Young »nd Ormkod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Cautes and Cure of Remitting or Bilious
Fevers.
To •which is an vexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinion*and pra&ice of
different authors: and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting intereibng fads and reflexions relative to
the Syttcbuj Jcicroides, or Yellow Fever, which
lia« ocoaQoned so much diftrelsand mortality, at
daffo in ieveral of the seaport towns
of the United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Fellew of the Philadelphia College of Fhyficians,
and Member of the American Philosophical So
ciety, &c. *Sm^
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, to contra-5 his busi
ness, offers this ElUte for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of stones ; aMb a good Forge, all
in perfeft repair, as.are all the Water Works connect
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built for the purpose of calling Cannon
for this State.—There are abow two thousand acres
of Larfd, •ne half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Paliure. Tne Cannon lately manufactured there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
Jwperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any iir the world ; for not cwie of fixry-ninc guns
lately made, although some of the 34 were bored
into 32 pounders, have faiUd on proving. The fru
ition is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufa&ure, and a place a* arms lying in the state
of Connefticut. and only 30 mile* from several land •
iugs on the Hud fan's river, and having every
tagfc that can result trom a plenty of water ifining
qui a large naiura! pond, very near the Furnace,
and which way be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all the flock and u'.enfiis, and have pofTcOion
on or before the firU of June next, and preparution
may be made in the mean Lime for goinginto Blali im
mediaieiy there4<ter, for every pajt will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, Stc. See. For
'terms, apply to Mr. Joleph Antnony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, Ei<j. one ofxhe Reprefefitawvcs
in Congress for thisStaie; Mr, D vid Waterman, on
the premiieS) or to the proprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILsON.
Dcr*. 1 . 3»wtf
FOR SALE,
Several/onts of Types—half worn.
Including Long Primer, about 400 weight, in
£ood condition, and would answer the purpose of
a country printer as well as new.
finquireof the Printer. new. 30.
Public Sale of Real Estates.
On THURSDAY Evening, the 15th of
February new, will be exposed to Public Sale,
at the Merchants' Coffee-houfc in Second-flre<-t,
at 6 o'clock in'the the following
ESTATES.
' No. t. A two (lory brick Hoafe, with t twtf
p story fraqie BuilJiasjs. 00 a,iot-40 uret
- ">oc fSStaeep 5 &Uo, a vacant scot of 40 frntyuK,
the to j»i. theret*.
intcreft l;u« lately been Jet Uir 100 Jollars per an-
I num, and is fituaced in Cliriiian-Areet, between
Front and Second' streets, the fecoßtJ- honfe from
Mr. Caleb Aft's. , .
No. a. A three story brick House, fifuate at
the north raft corner of Chefnut streets, being 14
' feet on Second-flreet, and 20 f«et on
ftrett, nojv in the tenure of Mr. Morange, at the
yearly reiit of 400 dollars, and is detmod one of
th= best, (lands lor the talc qf dry goods in this city.
No. y A luadfomq well finiftjed three ft<*y
bruk House, to seer front and 100 feet deep, fili
ate in Fifth-ftreet, between Market and Areh
ftreett, No. 40. This house is built and finilhed
in the ihodern style, is in complct.; repair, Wnh
t double cellars under the whole. Thei eis a cistern
of rain water in the yard ; and the house is at pre
fert let for CiOO dollar,', per annum with the taxes.
No. 4. A three story brick situate in
Plumb-llreet, between Second and Third-Arret,
being jo feet front and 130 feet deep, at prefer] t
occupied by Robert Kenny.
No. 5. A throe fiery brick Houf;, the bank
fide cf Froßt-flroet, No. 171 North, K<>iOg thro'
to Water-flrcet, where it is five story. It is 10
feet fruiit and 48 feet deep, in complete repair,
and it rent."J for 600 dollars per annum.
The conduions of Sale an;, owe quarter s»(h,
one quarter in 6 mouths, one quarter in 9 monxh»,
and »ne quarter in 11 months.
Philadelphia, Jan. it, 1798.
To be fold,
AN ELF.GANr COUNTRY SB AT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a tw»
story btick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. fisuate on the Irifti traifl lane, in the
townlbip of Moyamenling, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
tile Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for tafle and
elegance, (land unrivalled.
December 1. dtf
The Subscriber intends to make
application for the renewal of a Certificate of a Share
in the Bank ofthe United States, landing in the name
of A. B, No. 5004, dated July n, 1797, the fame
having been loft. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. ;•
ROSS & SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few hales Ra&«% Gtrffk^aad
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica, • ")
St. Vincents > RUM.
and Bengal J
300 calks RICE, snd
A parcel of ship bulging RED CEDAR. '
O&. 27.
Chocolate and Mustard,
of a Tuperior quality manufs<£lured,
GINGER 3.nd Pepper, ground ;• shelled or
pearl Barley ; Philadelphia Porter, Betr,
Alt and Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Air ;
London Porter ; red. Port and XJlbou Wine,
suitable for exportation or heme consumption.
The highest price given for Muilard-Seed.
Also far sale, A quantity of Bocking and
common Baizes, a variety of colors; a bale of
Fultiauj, Shawls, &c, for file by
JOHN HAWORTH,
No. 98, south Front-ftreef.
kov. 27. nu&th.t.rj.
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Moijday, thezoth
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBLJRN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Secosd-lu-eet—
Tic Vet 9 iu the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery,, at Ten
Dollars, where check books are kept lor rcgifler.
ing and examining in th.*fe, the City of Walliing
ton, No. 11. and Paterfoß Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be hai in most of the Lotte
ries authorifsd by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The bufinefi of a Broker, in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
discounting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, &c. &c. will be duly attended to,
by Wm. BLACKBURN.
mvember IC. 5 '
MUSIC.
J. L. LENZ,
ot Vocal and instrumental Music,
ETURNS hisfincere thanks to the Ladies and
Gentlemen, from whom he received a very
liheral encouragement fiwee his re&fctice "in this ci
ty, andrefpe»slfuUy informs his friends and the pub
lic generally, that, in confequeoce of the rtiqueft
of some of his friends, he has opened a Mu&cal
School at his house in Spruce Street No 174, where
he will teach or the Piano forte, Violin &c. &c.—
He deems it unneccffuTy to enlarge upon the ad
vantages the learner will derive from an inflituti
on of this kind; he will only fay, that attention
and zeal are much excited in an aflVmbly, where
numbers are in pursuit ofthefvne obieil. His *
arrangement is such, that an iaterference of the
the different fexe* will be avoided, Thote Ladies
andGeutlamen who cannot make it convenient to
attond at his school, he will wait upen at their
houses. A p| lications will be thankfully receiv
ed at hit houffe, where his term* and further parti
culars may be known.
Dec. 7. *jweod
N O T I C E.
AI.L persons concerned are hereby notified,
that the fnhferiber intends to apply for a re
newal of the undermentioned loft certificates of
Stock in the Bank of the United States—He for.
warded them under cover of a letter addressed to
John Anfley.of London, by the ship Bacchus, capt. ,
George, which left this pert in June last for Lon
don. But that (hip having been captured or. her
paflage and fentto France, the above letter and iti
clofures have failed in their destination.
Thret certificates, viz
Nos. 26325, 26326, 26327, each for
four (hares, dated January ift, 1797, and '
iflued in the name of Henry Grace, of Tot- '
tenham Highcryfs, Great Britain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
Philadelphia t neventber 8. 2aw 6 w
For Freight cr Charter',
,f To any. Poflt n Europe,
" S % 0 R K ,
ONEhund: ed :.r';ifcrty-OB<
. V l ' J tit Hr»- • and wctHmJl, *ad faih faft.—
'i For tfrtns afply to
'' Joseph Anlhory o 5 Co.
fAnary ij §tw .
n 4-1 * s JET
n Nicklijs' & Griffith,
At their Store 03 Walnut SireStU'h^rf— ;
HAVE FOR SALE,
+ 58 hhds. of Jair.J/ca Rum
' Madeira VVittt in pipes and hh<js.
, Tentriffe do. in pipes
Old Port do. 111 hfcds.
Imperial Tea in quarters and eighths of thefts
Sail Cant'ali, No. 1, to 8
Dimities, Ginghams, and Muflinets, in paefca
-1 ges suitable for the Weft India market
, Nails aijbrted
! Black quart bottles
- Queens ware 111 hhds. and crates
Yellow ochre dry in calks ;
1 And at New-York, on board the
t ' ftip Diana, from Liverpool, expa£te<l round
as loon as (he navigation is open,
c Fine Liverpool Salt
• Coils
3 Spanifli Hrovrn
, Venetim Red
Puiple Brown PAINTS
Patem white AJiN 1 *
■ White leftd<
Red lead
_ pojeothar vitriol
ibundles Sheathing paper
vSeawiiwg twine
e Ship Diana,
e For Sale-or Chapter.
ALSO,
Brig Amazon.
B The late firm of Phlip N ieklin & Co.
- is now changed to
i NICKLIN y GRIFFITH.
e January 1. eodtf
I For Savaniah,
TO SAIL THE FIRST OPENING,
' , —The fail Tailing (hip
SWIFTPAGKET,
Patr,ck Cribben, Master,
' lying tie firft wharf below
Market Street —has handsome ac
' commodations for pa(fcnger<—Fer freight or paf
-1 apply to the Master on koard, or to
N. is? J. Frazer,
No. 95, Soath Front Street.
Who have on hand, and for Sale,
Prime Rice, in whole and half tierces, Georgia
and Carolina Ip.dige, MolafTes in hhds, Teneriffe
' wine, See. See
December 27
For Amflerdam,
; V FA RME P R,
r ;J, John M'Coi.i.om, Master ;
WILL fail in a few days, the
| greater part of her cargo being
- ready. For freight offifty tons cf Coffee, or paf
lage, apply to the master on board, at Walnut
ftrcct whuif, or to
JOHN SAVAGF.
Who is Landing, out of the said Ship, from Bour
dcaux, and Por Sale,
Glaret in hhds.
White Wine in (Quarter calks
X'tiret in cases, of a superior quality
Fentiniae,
Sauterne, > Wines in cases
Luuille, )
Prunes in boxes
novem'rtr 24.
For Sale or Charter,
hmL GOOD HOPE,
Will carry about moo barrels, and
is ready to take in a cargo. For terms
apply to
Pragers & Co.
No. 151, Second-ftrcct.
Who have for sale——prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, Lifbon, and TerieriflQj wine.
November 7. dtf.
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Butler,
Captain Chisholm,
A new vessel, with excellent
accommodations for passengers 1
Sails on the loth of December. For Freight or
Paflage, apply to ROSS t3" SIMSON.
Who have to difpqfe of %
A small invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
November 18. $
A LL persons indebted to the estate of Peter
■L V GiH, late ofthe Diftrl<fl of Southwark, de-
Geaffdi are reqUelled to make immediate pay
ment to either" of the Subfcrihers; and thofc
who have any demands againfl said estate, are
requested to "bring in their accounts duly aUefi
ed to.
JOHNM-ÜBPHY,
PETBK SCRAVENDYKE, > ~ xccu *
THOMAS FARRELL, 3 l ° rS '
Phibd. 'an. 16. 1 708. *i>w4w
FOR SALE, at
Wm. Young's Book Store,
No. sa, Second Orect, the corner of Chefnut itreet.
REPORT of the Committee of the House of
Repr<ifentatives of the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachmrr.t '
against WILLI \M BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeached of high crimes and mis- '
demeanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of 1
the House oF Representatives, authorizltig the said '
Corrimirtee to fit during the recsfs of Congress, and '
inflruvfling thjFm to enquire, and, by all lawful 1
" means, so diicovcr live whole nature and extent
of the offence whereof the said William Biouttt
«• (lands impeache.i, and who are the parties ~nd
'* afCociatestherein."
Printed by order ofthe House of Rcprcfd.iai'ites.
December zo. §
For Londonderry,
William Whitten, m^i)e r .
tSsSLmm A good viiTd, has the
greatef (Xirt Hi lur cargo on board, aoti will fail as
05 f®o»
~ tiort Is nrade. a W caifcs WSITV Iftiglt!
for which, and paflage, apply o lie Captain, at.
Cuthicrt's wharf, or the luMcrihers,.
John Sijri/i,
- I Laiiden'uerger'n wiwif, or
George Hit Jon,
No. 25 iouth 3d Street.
Frelh Fruitsand Wine,
DIRECT FROM MALAGA,
By tfie hrig Johanna, capt. Thieflen, arrived at
Marcos Hook,
s iooo calks fine Bloom Raisins
300 Boxes } , - A
a- r y do. do. do.
d .lOQ Jars )
120 Hsdf } fine Muscatel do.
100 Boxes lemons
too Jars grapes
100 Kegs of figs
g 7 Bagsfoft Jhell'd almends
60 Bcxea Jordan almond kernels
a a Red Catalonia \Vinr
21 Hog.T.eads j
50 HogtheaJ,-) , w
atiO Qr. calfcs J W,ne
too Qr. c»(!-s fine Mountain do.
3<r- CJr. celks Cqlemenar do.
Apply to
' Edward Dunant,
N )■ 449, South Trout ftireet.
Who will Frciglit or Charter,
The Jaid Briganlinc
JOHANNA,
Being a Dane of about 293 toils
burthen, loj^any port in Europe.
January 19. *3teod
iJIBL a m 1 a b l e '
W D. C. Tillinghast, Master,
). For Amjlerdam,
CAN take in about 4c tons of goods to complete
her cargo. Shfe is intended to (ail the firft
opening far freight or paflage apply to
the mailer on board, at Bright's wharf, or to
Jeremiah Warder.
January 1 8 3t.
t The Subscriber
INFORMS thofi whom it may interest or con
cern, that the Judg.s of the Ceurt of Common
v Pleas have appointed Monday, the tiventy-ftxlb day of
i February next, to hear him and his Creditors, at the
Court-house in this city, on the fubjeA of his peti
tion for the benefit o£ the Insolvent Law—and
that their attendance is desired.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
Philadelphia, j fan. 16. cota6thF
•" v To Be Sold,
AGREEABLY to the lad will and testament of
William Heysham, deceased, and poffef
(ion given immediately, a valuable property inArch
street, between Third and Fourth streets, confift
injpof the house, Np. 107, withthelot 011 which
it is ere<sljed, a liable, and other improvements.—
The house is 10 feet front, and contains ten good
apartments. The lot is of the fame brendth as the
e luiuf. and 209 feet deep, with a well of water and j
g n veijy capacious walled ciflern, both with pump< J
in go«p The liable stands on the rear of
> theT'jt and will accnn)modatc sous liprfes and a ccr
rirge. This property enjoystfle pevp«twal privilege
of a 26feet court; andan alley, ij feet wide,extend
ing to Cti«rry Street. Its central position and the
advantages it poSTijff.s withrefpeil to free ventila
tion, render, it well worthy the .attention of any
perft;n wishing to poSefs an eligiblcprcjierty in Phi
ladelphia,
Fo" further particulars enquire at No 8?, Vine
Street—cf
RcBERf HeYSHAm,
or > Ailing Executors.
Fkancis Bowss Sayrs, )
January* tl §
W. Haydon,
Delineator of Drawing—from London,
(Where he has studied several years under one of
tha mod eminent masters in t at feieuce)
TNFORMS his (riend", that he has re-commcnc-
J. eri his private tuition.— Terms, as uiu.al, Six
s Dollars per month, for attendance three times a
week. Likewise, all kinds of Ornamental Paint
ing, fruit, flowers' &c, taught on tlie above terms.
•W. H. flatter? himfelf his terms will be partieu
j larly advantageous to tfiofe that employ him, as
he makes no additional charge if there are two
pupils in one family.
A line direilod to W. H. left at the office of this
Gazette, will be immediately attended to.
Janujry 9. §2w
C 3* The owners ofthe Brigantine
Mercury, William Urol, master, captured by
t a Spanish privateer and fold at Ceuta'in laftDe
. cetnber, may receive interesting information ref
r peifling her, by applying to the Department of
State.
* * The Printers in the sea-port towns of
the United States will render a service to the
concerned, by inserting the above in tberr news-
P : T*rs. Jan 3.
Landing this day,
From on boasd tjr« schooner Two Friends, Dan
id Crawley, Master,
Jamaica RUM,
FOR SALE BY
George Latimer Is? Son.
November 9. $
- NOTICE.
To holders of JAMES GREENLEAFs
and ED IVARD FOX*s Engagements
J TN consequence of many having been prevent-
JLed, from late unavoidable circumftanres from
* obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
. notice. The Trustees now informthem, they
are ready to iflue the fame to those who may ap
, ply wiihin sixty days, at No. 8 Che/giit Street,
j and those who do not, will be cotilitlercd as re
j linquilbing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
j provided for their payment,
t BIiNRY PRATT,
t TH( MAS W. FRANCIS,
?. JOHN MILLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
IACOB BAKER.
December d6ct
LOST,
IN this City, an Sunday Noremfcrr 16. 1*97»
a red Morocco Pwket book, cunuiii>iij» S
notes of hjndta Read & Pi*ri«, as fojluwi,
John DufUrld'e, Cor 441 dollars 73 cents.
Willimi M'f.lvvs '
fistltfe «yfiy « J-Z '.*>'■
John Dqalu {1 ■ 90
j l>.iiw.".rd Clayton's 60
Do. ?o
Do. 27 ,
7n)in Frown's £.106-15-11
One 10 dollar Bink of l'^nnfylvanianote—aa or
der upon WaltLrFrsr.kliniEfq in favorcfCiii.L-i
Read, and sundry other papers that can re t»t p»
afe but to the owners. Payment of the h.'.
notes cf hao.i being (Hp'd, a reward ot '*c : .ry
ihall be to the jitrfuu or persons ..
tug OM pocket book wiili tlie a'orriWid cbrti 1: j->
Read and Picrie, No. 65, Cbefnut dtreet and r,o
quc.lions aflced.
January 19 "ced^t.
War-Office of the United States,
January tbe \J!> i 798.
WHEREAS frauds havr been in
m^bbtuinin: Warrant* Jor Bounty Lands, due
to the Qffie: rs and Soldiers of the late Contirwmai
Army, by the produ«3ion of forged inftmnitnts.
To check in future fuck i-npofitions, it has been
thought av'vifeable ; that all persons, having claims
Cor bounty landfe, whether in tfieir own right, as
rcptefeutative, or by virtue of any inftrumenC
«r <taed of truster. !>e required t.o forward their
r*fpe«i!ive cJairus to the War Office, on or before
the firfl day o« January 1 799 111 order rhat such
claims nay be du'j exarxipirj, adjured and deter
mined upon.
To fub.'Untiatefn;!i cairns, a flriA obfervanceof
th. rules heretofore ifTtie<l from the War OlJice will
he indifpcnfaMe ; and in addition to what is require
ed by the laid rules, that certificate of the -acknow
ledgement of a Deed 69 Power of Attorney, mult
also set forth the place of rcftdence and occupation
of the claimant or perion making such acknowledg
ment ; and when the pioof of personal knowledge
is by a witness or witnefles, thrir place or places of
residence must be set forth in like manner*
JAMES MUENRY, Sec'y of War.
Jan. 7. d6w
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. lie Walnut-street,
INFORMS those who wi(h to recur to the only
means of becoming perfect in the French Lai.
guage, that he-has jufl opened his Libras y, con
fining of upwards of 1500 volumes, the best cal
culated to afford either ufeful inftrudion, or plea
sure. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may be seen at every book-feller's
in town.
n. a. All translations from and into the French,
Englilh and Spanilh Languages, exec urea with ac
curacy and dispatch. eoim «». \£.
To Cabinet Makers, Joiners, &c.
Cavanagh & Hearn,
Pine-flreet, near the New-Market,
"O ETURN thinks to their friends and the
AV public, for their liberal encouragement,
and hope, by their unremitting attention, to
merit a continuance of their favors. The Part
nerlhip between them and Joseph B. Barry, has
bet 11 diflolved by mutual consent. Cavanagh
and Hearn have jtrft received a quantity of St.
Doiningp and Honduras Mahcgony, which they
intend t.» fell on very reasonable terms* for cad;.
Orders from the country moll punflually txe
! cutej. Vineers of ?,ll kinds cut as usual.
Jan. 15. 2aw4W
FOR THE CURE OF
! COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, CON
SUMPTIONS,
And all disorders of the Breajl and Lungs,
Church's Cough Drops
Is n medicine unequalled by any other in the world.
CERT I FICATE.
" I hereby certify, that I have been cured of a
mpft levere Cough, C<s}d, and violent pain in my
by taking only a few doles of Dr. Church's
Cough Drops. CHARLES BEVANS,"
Sail Maker, Spriicc street wharf, Philadelphia.
From a London Paper.
To Dr. CHURCH.
SIR,
Having been recently restored from the brink of
the grave, by your invaluable medicine, 1 think it
my rimy to make this public acknowledgment of
f a ®e» for the benefit of others aißidled with a
linear complaint. I had been afHidled with amo ft
dreadful alihma for about twenty-three year*. I
never for years got any reft, my cough was so
troublefoire in the night; and used to discharge au
almost incredible quantity of glutinous matter
from Qjy lungs ; and my breath wasfo exceeding
short that I could not walk across my room» Pro*
vicient»i!y hearsng cf your Cough Drops, I took
them ; and, through taking I am now,
bJelled be God ! restored to perfedl health. My
cafe is well known to the members of the Ebene
zer Chapel, in Lincoln's-lnn-Field, of which I am
also a member ; and any of them will gladly fa
tiasy any inquiry concerning the truth of what I
lay. 1 am, Sir, yonr grateful servant,
NATHANIEL LANGWORTHY,
No. 3, Smith's-court, Great Windmill ftrca,
Hay-market.
f Witnefn,
N. Langworthv, jun.No. 40,
Pultuey-ltr«et, Golden-fquar*.
CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS
Are prepared and (old (only) by the inventor and
lolfi proprietor, Dr. James Church, at his Medi
cine Store, No. I South Third-flreet, next the Mar.
ket, Philadelphia; ani by appointment, at New-
York, I y Mt.Trs. staples and Co. 169 Pearl-ftrect
and Miss W'edman, m WiUkm-lircet.
Dr.criui,». may beconfulted every day, at his
offic-!, 158 South Front-flreet, Philada'phig
J ,nusr y 9' 3 aw.,w
All Persons
Having any demands agamft the Estate of the
late Captain George Irvviu, are reqistfled to
brmg in their accounts pioperly attelted, on or
before the firft day ot January next tnfuipi
and those who are indebted to said estate are so
licited to make immediate payment to
SAKAH IRWIN, Administratrix
mv. 19 jiQ7
Tin Plates,
FOR SALfi BY
SIMON WALKER,
Pir =» n«r Fiith street.
December id. Iv/— ———in-'
CONGRESS.
1-lOtfSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. gro
- litv
THU*>tjAt, January tB. pro
Debate on providing the meant «/ Foreign iH- e nd
tercourfe. li(h
(ContirueJ from Saturday:! Gajettf ] hac
Mr. SiTd*£AVES said, it was much to
be rrgretted, that when gentlemen thougat t^c
it necessary to introduce their opinions to
the consideration of the house, they (hould a(
fappofe themselves jullified in taking a lnti- g p|
tnde remotely and unnecessarily connefttrd
trith the fubjedt under conGderation. These
fort of remarks could not be permitted to go {u(
Without reply; and in consequence, the de
bates of the legislature appeared, as if ut
were intended nibre jo influence the public i Do
mind, than the minds of gentlemen in that
house on the decision of the queilion before i nQ
He did not think these observations , ejf
without their application on the present oc- ,
cafion. If the gentleman who made the !
motion before the committee had confined .
hi»nfelf to the propriety of appointing minis- j p (
tcrs plenipotentiary to certain courts, it
would have been decided by this time; but j
he had thought proper to go into adcelara-
tioti on the fetal effcils of Executive patron-
agr, and on the particular tifes made ° f il i w
in this government. He afke.d if any ger.-;
tkman could difpaffionatelyfay that this had !
connection with the fubjeft before the com
mittce. If the gentleman's observations
were taken in their broadest extent, they
went to fay the patronage of the Execu
tive Wa* dangerous te the liberties of the
People of this Country—they went to de
feat and dishonour a power created by the
Constitution of the Country. If thegenile-
man meant any thing, therefore, (and he
supposed he had some meaning in what he
said) he could mean no more than this, that
it was improper in the Executive to appoint
improper pcrfous to improper offices in the ai
Government. This proposition was felf-e- n(
vident, and there could be no disagreement p.
upon it, and no general observations on the
ruinous effetf. of patronage were neceflary.
No man was difpofed,to fay that if the Exec
utive power were unlimited, it might not be a- lt
bused, and all knew that it was wrong to j
appoint improper persons to public offices ; f(
but the true application of the arguments t(
used on this occasion appeared to be, that
the appointments made by the Executive
were made with the single view of increasing w
Executive iofluence, and that, confeqnent
}y, the motives of the Executive were im- w
pure. This position had not, mod aflured-
ly, been supported, by the introdu£lion of
any fadl; but the declaration was as broad
and as little fpecific, as the charge itfelt*.— j e
lt had also been observed, that it had be- t(
com? an avowed principle in the government f (
to exclude from public offices, all those who
were <?f a different opinion from the Execu- ei
tivi.-. He knew not upon what foundation t j
this aflertion was made, and it was very im-
material whither true or not. For himfelf, g
hehadnoobieclionto declare it tobehisopin- t
ion, that wherever the administrators of go- Q
vernment had deviated from a rule of this
kind, they had done so to their sorrow and t
to their loss, and the experience of govern- n
mer.t in this refpeft had produced a fad and j,
awful leflbn, which would doubtless have
its cfFedk in future.
But, was it for that house to enquire in- f
to those things ? He believed not. The f
Constitution and laws of the Country had f
made certain offices nee'eflary, and left it to t
the Executive to fill them as he pleased; and v
•was it for that house to attempt to control
this discretion ? If it were executed ta the v
injury of the People, the Constitution had
pointed out the remedy to be by impeach-
ment. But where was the crime, the of- t
fence, or the impropriety, of the conduA v
afsribed to the Executive, if it had been a- t
dopted? Would gentlemen fay, that the
Executive ought to appoint persons to of- f
sices who profeffed an opinion contrary toits j
own. Did gentlemen suppose that there t
was such a want of integrity in this depart- t
ment of Government, that it adopted a po- {
litical opinion which it did not believe to be
right; and if it were believed to a£l from e
principle, would it be prudent, or right, to t
admit to a participation in the execution of e
the important duties of Government, per- v
sons whose sentiments were not in 'unison r
with those of the Executive, and who could f
only.create discord and confufion, where no- t
thing but harmony and union ought to pre- ]
vail? If the Executive adled upon just prin- j
ciples, it Would endeavour to give singleness
of design to its operations, and it could on- £
ly do this by admitting persons into the go- j
vernment who thought with it. This would (
be a right, prudent and honourable condudl, j
and where it had been deviated from (as he ,
had before observed) Government had re- j
ceived an awful leflbn for its future con- |
dud. (
But why deviate into this wide field of 1
speculation ? The single question before the i
committee was, whether an appropriation 1
ihould be made in support of our present di
plomatic e~flabli)kment. In arguing on this i
question, gentlemen £ct out with faying, ]
that at the erigin of this government a cer
tain diplomatic establishment was neceflary,
and that there hadbeen no occafionto change
it; and, if it had been changed, it was now
the time to corre& it; and they called upon
gentlemen to (hew what necessity there had
been for the "change. To that call it was
fufficient to answer, and it was an answer
which muftbe given, that they didnet know.
They had no means of knowing; the Con
stitution had not placed those means in their
hands. For whatever control that house
might afTume to itfelf over the Executive,
it must be admitted that a right judgment
on*this fubjeft could not be formed by them,
as the information neceflary to this judg
ment was not upon the files of that house.
All the diplomatic agents correspond with
the Executive alone, and that branch of go
vernment only could form a correft judg
ment upon diplomatic agencies. Suppose
they were, in tWIr turn, to ask *«nd
why.was -not the present etlabliihment ne- exp
ceflary? were they prepared to give a well exc
grounded opinion on the fubjtdt? Hebe- leg!
litvfd they could not. And the burden of frie
proof lay upon them, because they were to
■ endeavouring to deflrqy an existing eftab the
lilhment, without knowingthereafoiis which tio
had induced tb| change. me
' It had been* said by his colleague, that he
I the power of appointing officers, veiled in th<
' the executive, was liable to abuse, and he wa
had referred to the late appointment of the be
j gentleman from S. Carolina whilst a member eci
. of that house, as a proof of it. Mr. 8. go
e a(l<ed if there was any thing in the confti- ro
° tution which forhade the President from ap- joi
"" pointing members of the legislature to exec- tal
7 utive offices, a»d on the contrary, if it had fa]
10 ' not been the constant practice to do so ? If of
re i not be called in question, the abuse of its sic
ls j execution could onfy be blamed. In the w
c " j particular iaftance alluded to, his colleague to
had not supposed the executive had been ac- cc
J'r ■ tuated by any improper motives in the *p- ju
j pointment ; but only that tfie fa£t (hewed ca
lt; I the power was liable to be abused. Unquef- w
ut j tionably this, and every other power might m
a " 1 be abused j but if the power was conftitu- th
1' | tionally used, it could not b£ found fault of
II j with, except it were abused. Where could
R " 1 the executive look for fit persons to fill di- m
plomatic offices, if he were not to chufe fe
n " them from the legislators, whose tituation a
ns evinced that they po/FefTed the confidence of m
e y their constituents, and in which they had h;
had an opportunity of Ihewing that they h;
e pofieflVd abilities for such un appointment, si'
such as would do honor to themselves, and p
such as wert calculated to procure advanta- cl
!®" ges for their country. ti
Jj e The question whether that house had the e:
power to interfere with the executive au- p
l3t thority, by withholding appropriations, it
had been fully difcufled in a former congress, n
and the opinion of the country was not a
c ~ now to be fixed on this fubjedl. For that tl
part of the house, who thought the confti- c
tution had not veiled them with the author- a
J" ity of controlling the executive, it was fuf- t
u " ficient to fay, that the executive had tho't c
a " ;t neceflary to introduce the change in the o
to diplomatic department, which was complain- u
s ' ed of, and that they felt themselves bound c
lts to carry his determination into effei* ; but f
at those who think the house of representatives t
ve may control the executive in this refpedlsr f
n S will of course a£t accordingly. I
lt_ Mr. Baldwin said, he perceived there £
"]' was a real difference of opinion between the I
" gentleman last up and himfelf. The gen- f
° tleman supposed the diplomatic eftablilh- >
a ment was .fixed by the executive, and the t
legislature had nothing to do with it, but
to ptoride the money. Every person rtiuft J
;'' 1 fee, even from a cursory view of the confti- t
tution, that this was defigned'to be a gov- I
u * eminent of departments, legislative, execu- j
on tive and judicial, to be kept as far as poffi- i
ble diftindl. It was the business of the le- '
.'' gWature to establish officers by law ;it was i
ln " the business of the executive to those «
offices. Tt would appear, from tracing '
11 back the law now proposed to be continued, <
in that it originated in this manner- He had I
rn " not been notified of the fubje&'.beifig like- 1
in ly to be called up to-day, and was not pre- 1
* V| " pared to be as particular as he could wifhas '
to fails ; helhad endeavored to refrelh his 1
recolleftion fiiice it had been under discus- <
"j fion, and he found it originated from the 1
speech of the President at the opening of <
l ° the second feflion of the firft congress, in '
,nc J which he said, " that the intersfts of the '
r ° United States required that our intercourse
1 ' with Other nations Ihould be facilitated by '
la such provisions as will enable me to fulfill my ;
c " duty in that refpeft ; and to this end, that
0 " the compensations to be made to the persons
who may be employed, ihould according to
la " the nature of their appointments, ht defined
1 e by law." This part of the speech was re
° " ferredto a committee, and from that orig
"ts inated this law. Want of information at
ere that early time in the government, priven
irt" ted their being as particular as they wilhed,
P°" they fixed a sum to each grade, and a sum
e beyond which the whole amount (liould not
om extend, limited the law to a (hort period,
that it might be open to he correfled by
0 experience. The present motion, if he had
' er * understood it, proposed now to be a little
J" more particular in the eftablilhment, by
fixing the sum for particular places ; to do
no " the very thing then recommended by the
ire- p re sid ent . The fame had always been the
intention of every succeeding congress,
ie which was the reason why they continued it
on " only for short periods, leaving it open to
6°' such amendments as should be suggested by
l ' experience. These ideas of the offices be
' ing firft to be established by law, appeared
" e not only to be the sense of the former Pre
re' fident, and of each succeeding congress, as
on " he had stated, but appeared also to be the
opinion of the present President. At the
of last session, he thought that a higher grade
the of office was neceflary at Algiers ; this he
ion 'stated in a message to congress, that as there
di- were great expenditures of money on that
this coast, he thought it neceflary that an eftab
ing, lilhment fhoald be made which would ena
cer- ble him to appoint a very confidential per
ary, son, on whom the other officers there should
nge be dependent, and who ihould control their
low proceedings and expenditures. Congress
pon concurred in this opinion, pafled a law for
had the eftablilhment of the office, and then the
was executive appointed the officer. For these
wer reasons, heconfidered the question as with
ow. in their proper powers, and fairly open to
'on- their deliberation.
heir He was always sorry to hear of the hof
aufe tility of the departments of the government
live, and of how much harm they could do if
u»nt they were hoflile to each other. Th'ey are
lem, designed, and have every inducement to cul
jdg- tivate harmony, and n»t hostility j and in
lufe. the harmonious exercise of their powers,
ivith they contrcul each other ; there can be no
:go great danger of exaeflive patronage in ap
ndg- pointmenti to office, if the office must be
pose tirft eilabliflied by law. If he had not mis-
VindfrSood the gentleman last up, he had tral
expressed some belief ana approbation -of thj, wig
executive's having a political system as to the
legislation, and rewarding and punishing pofi
friends and enemies of ,tbat political fyficm.' cut
to he sure it wasby the constitution made woi
the duty of the President, to lay informa- cha
lion before the .legislature, and to recom- divi
mend measures. wTien he has done this, afit
he has dofi.e his iuty ; but to conceive that (ho
there is a general system of legislation al- def
way,s existing in the executive, which is to the
be regarded as aftaudard ; or that the ex- are
ecutive and departments of the the
government are ;o be considered as floating th:
round on the frrull aßd frequentlycafual ma- bcl
jorities and mijorities which will for ever trj
take place in representative legislatures, was dci
Tapping tie very principles ahd foundation pri
of a of departments like ours, dei
If a law h'apdenW to be made by the wrong . ce
fide, it womd have had but a bad chance cal
with the executive, or at the feat of judg- an
: ment. There were old republics in this eo
country. He believed their executives or W
judiciaries had rarely taken pirt, or been ha
carried round on the thousand storms with he
which they had been agitated." He could ift
not persuade himfelf that he hid understood of
the gentleman as expressing an approbation ti<
of it, as he thought''*it was stated by him w
! ( Mr. S'ttgreaves J'aid, he had certainly been ft
• mifunderjloed). Mr. Baldwin said he there- th
: fore considered the question a fair one, and at
i a question which was always expefted to be in
F made at the different times when this aft fr
I had been continued by short limitations :it
r had been an old question, and always con- pi
, fidered a vary important one, before the tr
I present government was formed. At the 01
• close of the revolutionary war, the difpoli- t<
tionfor forming many treaties, and having ir
i extVnfive diplomatic connexions with Euro- h
• pean powers, was carried even farther than ft
, it has been since. It was among their firft tl
, national a&s, and discovered marks of youth si
t and inexperience; a few years convinced c<
c them that thty had gone to# far, that this a
. country had little to expeft from treaties si
. and much to fcfe, and that many diploma- tl
- tic connexions were more frequently the w
t caufeof ptrplexity and embarrassment, than w
e of any national advantage. The Congress, n
i- under the articles of confederation, were F
d extricating thcmfelves from that policy as tl
t faft as polfible ; as these expired in course, g
s they were careful not to renew them. For n
several of the last years of that Congress, g
he well reeellflfted that clusters of candi- v
e dates far these appointments, supported by I
e powerful interdls and connexions were uni- 11
i. formly refiftec; and, if he mistook not, t:
t- when this govrrnment came into operation n
e this country htd but one minister in Europe, c
it The conviftioi on this fubjeftwas so strong, t
ft and experience had so fully fettled it as the J
i- true policy, that it remained immoveable c
r- for some time »fter organizing the present i
i- government. All foreign (
i- ministers was rtfufed at the firft feflion as far i
;- as he recolleded. At the second feflion, it t
is was urged, in the fpeeeb of the President, :
fe as before stated, and enforced by more par- ;
g ticular explanations to individuals, as design- i
1, ed to be for temporary purposes, refpefting ;
d the northern forts and the property that was '
withheld : under these explanations, a law
j. pafl"ed, as before explained. It was true,
is this policy had been of late, in some mea
is sure departed from. He thought exfleri
f- ence had already been ufeful to them in this
ie course also, and ought to administer cauti
af on to them in feekiug to intermingle in Eu
in ropean politics. Ambafladors and ministers
ie cannot be entirely indifferent :othe charac
fe lers and events with which they are conftant
>y ly surrounded : the {hare they take is very
iy apt to be exchanged between the countries
at to which they belong. He did not wish to
ns be too particular on that point : he was per
to fuaded fafts enough presented themselves to
ed the recollection of every member-to confirm
e- his remark. It might be said that on this
g- also we have an awful lejfon. If evil had
at bce« experienced from this cause, he hoped
n- it would operate as a reason to endeavour to
d, diminish it. He thought it not uhreafon
m able for the house to interpose their reftrain
ot ing power as to granting money, and the
d, more particular establishment of the offices,
jv and thus aid the"other departments of the
id government in bringing back by degrees,
le this part of our policy to its former prin
jy ciples, so well fanftioned by experience.—
lo Whether the present moment was well ti
he med, or whether it was best to give it ano
he ther fliort limitation before we went into a
fs, definite establishment, was another qtleftion,
it on which he was willing to hear more re
to marks. Informed as he was at present, he
>y should vote for the motion, and thought they
e- might make 1 some amendments to the form
ed er bill, already suggested by experience,
e- and which would be ufeful.
as The committee rose and had leaye to fit
he again.
he
de FRIDAY JANUARY 19.
he Debaie tn Foreign Intercvurfe.
:re The House having resolved itfelf into a com
iat mittee of the whole, Mr. Dent in the
h- chair,
ia- Mr. Pinckney *#fe. He understood
sr- the amendment was intended to confine our
ild Ministers Plenipotentiary to London ar.d
eir Paris, and that no higher grade than Min
efs itlers Resident should be employed in any
for other country." He was opposed to this
he change at this time, and to the mode pro
efe posed of doing the business, if the time
;h- were seasonable. It was proper that at this
to junfture, our Ministers should remain as
they were, as it was prudent to derive all
of- the influence and advantage we could from
rnt the situation of our agents in Europe, who
if would not only be enabled to communicate
are more correft information from thence, than
ul- could be derived from any other source, but
in who could also explain the motives and ob
•rs, jests of this government, and by that meana
no remove any unfavourable impreflions which
»p- may be attempted to be given with refpeft
be to this country; and thereby put our bufi
lif- ness in the best train for securing the neu-
tral ftantJhig which We-have takeft. He
wts againjt it for another teafon. lochange *
the Diplomatic Intercourse in the way pro
poled, would be forcing upon the -Exe- ftji
cutive a measure contrary to its wishes. It Bh
would aifo be affording teftimoijy to the yc;
charge heretofore made, that there was a.
diviiion in the government and in the People
afituationin which many wifhedtofeeus. He
I should beforrytoafford the appearanceofone na
departmentofgoverument having forced upon
the otherachange of measures of which they H<
are the competent Judges, and upon which rai
they have a fled. As it was well known P°
that th-jre was a very intimate connexion JJj
between Spain and Holland, and the coun
try with whom we have at present a mifun-
derftanding, he should be unwilling to de-
prive thii country of the advantages to be p
derived from having ministers at thufe pla- ,
Ces ; belides, it our ministers to be re
called from thence, it would be considered as ; (
an extraordinary proceeding; and might be
eonftrued as intended ta be hostile to them.
Whatever influence Spain or Holland may {(
have in the councils of the country which
he had alluded to, by continuing our min- <
iftersthere.it was probable that weight would
operate in otir favour. There was an addi-
tional reason with refpeft to Spain. It ,
' was well known that we had points ye f to
fettle with the sountry. Our treaty with j
■ that power was not yet carried into effeft,
t and negociations might at this time be go- jr
: ing on in rilation to it, which might be
E fruftrated by the recalofour Ministers.
With refpeft to the grade of Ministers
■ proper to be employed in different coun-
; tries, we must not consult on this fubjeft
: our o\rn ideas alone, but pay some refpeft p _
- to the light in which this business is seen u
in ether countries. From a faft- within
- his own knowledge, he knew of what con
-1 sequence these forms were looked upon in
t the court of Spain. When they wished to e
1 finifh a treaty which'was begun with this u
I country, they desired it might be done by n
3 a Minister of a higher grade than the one re-
! fident there. It was on this requisition,
- that an envoy extraordinary was sent. There y
: was considerable etiquette in this business,
I which it would not be proper altogether to j
, ncgleft. It was necessary when a minister j
: Plenipotentiary was sent to a country, for j
i that country to return a minister of the fame (
, grade. Besides to go into the proposed
r measure at this time, would exhibit a de- ,
, gree of instability in our Councils which j
• would have an unfavourable appearance to i
J Foreign Countries. If peace were restored
- in Europe, and we had no difference to set- (
, tie there, he should agree with the gentle- L
n man from Virginia, and with the opinion (
of the old Congress, that it would be well
to keep no Foreign Ministers in Europe
e All commercial regulations might be as well
e carried on by GonfulSTfirtJy Ministers j »■■«!
it if any differences should arrife betwixt this
n Country and any of the European Govern
ir ments, special envoys might be sent to fet
it tie them, as heretofore; for when the-fitu
t, ation of this country was considered it would
r- appear to be for our interest to have as pol
-- itical conneftion with Europe as possible,
ig and therefore Ministers could be of no use,
as but might do mifchief. Gentlemen of the
vf different opinions in that house, must fee
e, that we have had ministers in Foreign Coun
a- tries who have done no good, and that Fo
ri- reign Ministers have been sent to this coun
lis try who have done harm. He therefoee
ti- thought that the gentleman from Virginia
a- was right in principle; but he thought that
rrs the time improper, arid he did not approve
c- of the mode proposed to be adopted. He
it- should wish that the fubjeft should be bro't
ry forward by way of an original motion, and
ies receive all the discussion which the rules of
to the house would admit of.
rr- Mr. P. concluded by observing, that he
to had avoided touching upon what gave eo
m lour to the debate of yesterday. It was with
lis concsun he heard such topics intreduced.
ad It must be lamented by every friend to the
:d country, as tending to destroy that harmo
to ny and good will which was at all times
n- proper and desirable, but at this timfc pecu
n- liarly so, when all our efforts ought to be
he joined to avoid the calamities of war ; but
:s, when, if these calamities could not be avoi
he ded, we ought tc stand shoulder to shoulder
rs, and oppose every power who was determin
n- ed to impose upon us. So strongly was
- this impressed uponhis mind,that he thought
ti- every means should be taken to harmonize
o- and conciliate. The best way to effeft this
> a harmony, in his opinion, was to avoid in de
>n, bate.allperfonalities, and thofefubjeftswhich
re- tend to beat the paflions, and which, instead
he of elucidating, embarrass investigations ; for
ey there wa3 no chance for rational enquiry,
m- when full vent was given to resentments and
:e, anger. Mr. P. asked pardon for this
digrtfiion and fat down
fit Mr. Nicholas wished to explain his in
tentions of bringing forward this amend
ment. He believed the gentleman last up
would find they nearly corresponded with
his own. He had no idea of putting aa
m- immediate veto upon the Ministers atpre
:he sent employed, He considered this bill,
though palled wiih a limitation, as a per
iod manent system, and a subsequent clause of
>ur the bill would enable the committee to fix
ir.d the time at which the salaries of Ministers
in- should cease- His wish was to put a limit
iny to this extension of executive power. He
his reminded the gentleman from S. Carolina,
ro- that Holland was not concerned in this bill,
me as we had only a Minister Resident there,
his If the fuhjeft were furthei dilated upon, he
as should offer some farther remarks upon it.
all (Debate to be continued.)■
om 1
'ho LONDON.
ate British Navy.—The numHfr of commif
lan fioned officers at present in the ftrvice of the
but Britifli n»vy, amount to 39451 v ' z -
Admiral ot the Fleet 1 Post Captains jog
FlagofSrers of different Commanders 3(9
. | ranks ar d colour# 105 Lieutenants 1011
II The last promotion ef captains to the rank of
left rear-admiral, took place on the 20th ef Febru
ufi- ary last, and includes nine—Sir Charlc? Cotton
eu- being n»w the lalt on the lift of admirals. Tfce
ildeft captais, who had not ran v „r
admiral, is Sir Alex. Schomberg : he was m , j_
poll captain in tile year 1757.
Atthe head of tite mafWs and commanders
4HU 'lands the long-neg(e<fted name of Ge«r* e
Blyke, who was promoted to that rank in the
year 1757.
The senior lieutenant of the Britifli navy i (
Mr. Anthony lortye, wbofe luck in preferment
seems to hays kept pace nearly with that of the
former gentleman. Mr F. was made a lieuta.
jiarit in 1744.
The venerable father of the British fleet, Lord
Howe, is we believe, the oldest officer of any
rank in the ltrvice. His lord (hip was made a
poll captain in the year 1746, a rear-admiral in
1770, a v : ce-admiral in 1775, an admiral of the
white in 1781, and admiral of the fleet in 1796.
A very Curious discovery has lately been
made by one of our best antiquaries and hiflori
ans, among th papers of the celebrated Irish
Patriot, Mr. Molyneux, who died in 1699,
of a branch of tie Royal Santty tfiallifhed in
Dublin, and corresponding with them front
1662 til! Sir Isaac ■ Newton -was President of
the Society. This circnmflance <was not known
when the Irish Academy was incorperated f
1786. From a print of the Giants Causeway,
printed and engraved by their order in 1697,
it appears that Sir Cyryle IVyche was preftdent,
Dr. Afhe,Btfhop of Cloyne, and William Moly
neux, Efq; Vice President of the Dublin Philo.
jopkical Society, S' me curious traßs have also
been found among the papers of Dr. Hunting
don, who was a great traveller, and Provofl
of the University of Dublin in the reign of
Charlesll.
At IVorcefler races Idjl week, appeared the
venerable William Hyde, of Hopton Wafers,
in Shropshire, who is now in his \G\thyear !
He rode from that place to Mr. Burwick's hof
pliable mansion at Hallow, from whence he
j walked daily to the race-ground. In his cot
tage on the fide of the Clee-hill, he has puffed
his loog andpeacefull life, in the parifb which
gave him birth, sifter the age of 70, he wan
dered into Wiltfbtre to fee his sons, and walk
ed on the f irjl day of his journey from his home
® to Newport, in Gloucejlerfblre, a diflance of
near 50 miles. He lived 68 years with one
wife !
' A machine was tried on Monday oh board
" his Maje/ly's ship Centaur, which bids fair to
' be of the greatefl utility to the marine of this
3 kingdom :it is a uew capflan, invented hy
r William Bolton, Esq. Commander in his Ma
r jefly's uavy. Four men aßually weighed the
~ Centaur's sheet anchor. Had all the powers
been applied, it was allowed that two men
would have done it. Indeed from many cau
-1 fes, there is little doubt but one man would raise
3 a 74'f anchor. This mathine p"ffeffes both
1 power and velocity, asthe powers can be applied,
" or detached with wonderful facility ; and used
' as a ftmple captain, it is much superior to any
jj common one.
BOSTON, January 14.
" GOVERNMENTAL PROCEEDINGS.
*- 1 trw no*.
s Agreeably to adjournment, a quorum of fcott*-
i- branches aflembled at the old state-house, and
t_ proceeded to the elefliow of committees prepa
, ratory to the execution ofbufinefs.
1 j A committee w?s raised to report the time ai d
manner of repairing to the new state-house, _
which the agents had reported was prepared for
e, the accommodation of'government. Adjourned,
e, Thurfdaj, Jauuary IT.
le Agreeably to aflvgnment, and invitation of tlie
ee legislature, the Supreme Executive repaired to
the senate chamber of the old house, and at 14
o'clock, a procession moved confilling of the
Sheriff of Suffolk
n ~ His Excellency THE GOVERNOR,
ee His Honor the Lietenant-Governor,
j a The Hon. Council,
at The President of the Sen^fe,
Chaplain of the Legislature,
* e The Hon. Senate,.
le of the House of Representatives,
The Hon. House.
id The Secretary of the Coinmouwealth,
of Clerks of the two Houses,
The Treasurer of the Commonwealth/
Clerks, Meflengers, &c.
Jn this order the whole proceeded to the re
°/ prefentatives' room, in the new Commonwealth
th House ; where the Rev. Dr. Thatcher, as chap
d. lain of the legislature, in a very eloquent and
he pathetic address, dedicated the buildup to the
o. moll honourable of human purfu'.ts —the hen*
ie 3 our of God, and the people's gdod. The dif
ferent brandies then fep3fated, and took poucf
fion of their appropriate rooms.
be Dr. Euftis, in behalf of the representatives 'of
Boston, in a very handlome manner, returned.
31- thanks to the house, for its politeness in permit
ler ting thetn to tatix rife firft rang* oppo
n_ Tite the speaker. ,
The Secretary informed the house, that he
, a ° had in direiftion from his Excellency the Gov
ernor to acquaint the house, that he should
ze meet them to-morrow, in the representatives
bis room, to make the nfual communications to the
le- legislature. Adjourned,
ch " Friday, January js.
1 The two branches being convened m the re
r prefentatives' roam, prtJ.fely at 12 o clock his
excellency the Governor came in and addrcued
T» the Legislature in the following
" d s SPEECH.
' Gentlemen of the Senate, and
Gentlemen of tbe House of Representatives,
■ n ' While I rejoice with you, and my fell»w-ci
id- zens at large, on the completion of ihis stately
up edifice,not less honourableto the commenweaWb,
JtJj at whose exper.ee it was erefted, than ornamen
aß tal to the capital which generously prpviJed
the phce ; permit me to express my entire ftt
r.~ isfaflion at the ingenious manner in which the
l "> plan has been executed. Begun and fiuifhed in
!er little more than two years, it exhibits a plealinjj
of proof of the architeSural (kill and fidelity of
fix your agents, who planned and fupenntende i
rr n, the work ; while it demsnfti ates the ability -of
•. the artificers who performed it.
' Combining the .idvantnges of fuitablet*th«-
ment, a healthy fituatipn, and delightful prof
na > peit, with such elegant and very convenient a
"11, pirtments for the security of the records,and for
■re. tranfafling tlie public bulinefs, there i> per-
Jie haps no building to be found within the Unit
ed States, more utefiri w magnificent. I am con
fident that yourfpentlemen of both hrfnfes of the
legislature, will cordially join me in the fervent
~ wish, that this (Jate hoafe raav long remain a
montnnent of the public spirit 6f the citizens of
nif Maffa; huferts, as Well as the testimony of their
the refpe& to our bappy oolitical infliiutions. We
will then, under the finiles of Heaven, unite in
509 dedicating it to the Honor, Freedom, indi>pen
-3(9 dence atid security of our country. In Riis house
on m?y the true priniiples of tlie htfl fyAem of ci
iof vil government the worW has erer seen, be iwi
iru- fnrmly supported. Here, may every praflWe
ton and principle hr fuccefsfully oppofedv t*'it tend
rfce tc impair it. Hrre may every aft tf the Irgif-hs'ure, be 'tf ri*fu't of cool deli'.Jeratiuir ani
f and judgment. And jn this houfe,'oh aJI ns
ctfTa y occafiofls, may the fuprcme executive,
agreeably to the laws of the land, i;i mercy cause
judgmenfcto l>e executed. And ejeh, branch ot
our eleflive gdverrfment, continuing faithful in
the dif;harge of its trust, God grant, that nei
ther external force or influence, not internal
com motion ->r violence, may ever fluke the pil
lars r r obr freerepuMic. '
"" >ugh we fiorice, u ith thef.igheft pkafure
th» ev dence of great prosperity and happiness
in alt parts of this commonwealth, arising, at
well Irom thfc love of order and-due fubmiflioti
to the laws, as from the enterprise, virtue, and
induflry of the clti^is—yet it is to be regret
ted, that external appearances a'e not equally
favorable. Owing to the war in Europe, the
interests of our commerce have greatly fufFered ;
and on that account, as well as from the hlimani
ty natural te Americans, our wilhes for the re
ellablifhment of peace, have been sincere and
ardent. ha 1 , taken place between
the irenth Republic ani the German Empire ;
, and preparations it is said, are making for the
rontinuaace of the war between that republic
and Great-Brifain. To me>. therefore, there
appears but little probability, that the depreda
tions on the cotnmtrce of the United States will
he lpeedily discontinued. An event so desira
ble, in a great measure depends on the iuccefs
of the commiflioners of the United States, now
at Paris, who are malting every effort in their
power to a by amicable negcciition, eur
causes of difference with the Fr<fttch republic :
But as-thrre can he no certainty, that the over
tures of a friendly adjustment wil) be fuccefsful,
ought we not to be prepared for difappeintment,
and m-et it with firmnefs ?
The commerce of the United States is too im
portant to bs negleifled; and lam persuaded it
will not fail of receiving all the protection and
support our national government can afford.-
The citizens .of Am rica love peace, and sin
cerely with to cultivate friendlhip with all na
« tions, But (hould neccffity (which Heaven for
bid) compel them to the lilt resort, the tame
undaunted spirit and firmnefs will be discovered
in the jiift defence of their independence, which
were sb confpicueus at the time it was obtained
This is a fubjeift of the highest importance,
and belongs I am sensible, to the government of
the, United States, whose meafure#, at this im
• portant crisis, undoubtedly will be marked with
pi udeace, and pur'fued with firnmefs :—But, let
me ask, is it Knt necefTary, under existing cif
cumflances, to evince to the world our readiness
to support such measures for the general wel
fare, as the government of the United States
fball fee fit to adopt ? Whilfl we are careful nit
/ to infringe on the rights of other governments,
we will he faithful to ouY own,
we have engaged to support, and to which we
are bound by every social and moral obligation.
The bnfinefs of legiflatian, for which you are
now more particularly convened, is both ardu
obs and important, and requires your careful
attention in framing such new laws, as you
nay judge necefTary f«r the public good, and in
revising and amending those, which already
cxift j so that the citizen may find security
for every right, and redress for every wrong to
his person or property, in the molt easy and ex
peditions manner pofllble. It is unneceflary to
be particular on this fubjefl, because your en
s. lightened underflanding and discretion, will di
rest you to the wisest meafpres f<w 'J"
mentpii ihofc important objecls.
I have the highest fatisfaftion gentlemen,
in being able to inform you, that by state
ments exhibited to me by tl»e late treasurer,
Mr. Davis, and by his fuccefTor, Mr. Cof
fin, ourpublis treasury appears to be in an
elligible situation. The debts due to the
Commonwealth, exclusive of those confid
«rcd aa doubtful, are quite fuffitient to dis
charge all just claims and demands on gov
ernment, of every defeription ; and a con
iiderable surplus will then remain for pub
lic exigencies. This (hews the effeft of the
plan adopted for the reduftion of our debt
and cannot fail of eneourageing you to per
severe in a system so obvioudy ' beneficial,
because it will enable the public tu difchargc
its debt, withoiit the ncceffity of any addi
tion to the usual taxes, which are requisite
for the support of government. Those
statements, I have directed to be laid be
> fore you, with the explanatory, ufeful ob
iervalions thereon, by the treasurer.
My official duty obliges me to mention,
that owing to the incompetency of the pre
sent legal compensations for services requir
ed, several vacancies have happened in some
of the important offices of the government
particularly in that of the judge of Pro.
bate, in the comity of Hancock. The ref
peftable gentleman who lately filled that
important office, ftated to me, that the
allowance established by law, is quite inef
ficient to bear the expences, of attending
the probate courts in that county, withoHt l
taking into consideration any allowance for
his time and services. Under such circum
stances, it is not probable the vacancy can
be suitably filled. You will therefore judge
whether the circumstances of that county
do not call for your particular attention.
Every servant of the public, is justly enti
tled to a revvard, adequate to the merit of
his services ; and in making legal eftablifh
mcnts for this purpose, fiiitable regard
should be bad to the enhanced prices of the
neceflaries of life. Whilst lam on this
fubjedt, I beg lelve to submit to your can
did consideration, whether it would not
better comport both with the letter 3nd
spirit of the conflitution, to annex perma
nent and honorable establishments to some
of the important offices therein mentioned;
rather than occafio'nally to afford relief by
temporary, additional grants. In your
wisdom and reftitude the people have placed j
a confidence, and lam persuaded they will ,
not be disappointed.
Agreeably to an ait of Coijgrefs, for the 1
more general promulgation of the laws pass- /
ed on the third day of March, 179J; I have 1
lately received from the Secretary of State, t
five hundred and eighty-eight setts of the i
laws ps the United States, cpnfifting ps t
three volumes eacli, being this Cpmmefi- c
wealth's prpportipn|of said lews,to be deposit- a
ed in such fixed and cpnvenient place in each t
county, or other civil fubprdinate division,
as the executive legislature (hall deem most f,
conducive to the general information of the si
people. It will, I conceive, be necessary n
for the legiflature'to make prdvifion for the
immediate distribution of those laws, among
the several towns or counties within thecom- li
monwealth, ;n such manner and under fucli ' E
j'eftridtions as may be thought best adapted j
' to carry into cfTeft the important and uCcfui
dfcfign of thf said aft.
I $ Other matters which may require "your
t consideration, I (hall communicate by pri
t vate message, and (hall mod cheerfully con
- ' cur with you in every meafttre that shall ap-
I pear to me well calculated to eftablilh the.
- . security and promote the general welfare of
! our fellow citizens.
' Increase Sumner.
, Council Chamber, Jan. 12th, 1798.
i The Secretary then delivered a copy «f
■ the speech to the President of the Senate,
and Speaker of the House. The Senate
having returned, the Speakerread the speech
' from the chair; and on motion, it was com
. mitted to Dr. Euftis, Mr. J.C.Williams,
J Mr.Treadwell, Mr. Barnes, &. Mr. Sprague,
a (of Lancaster.)
■ A confidence pudi&cr of local peti
* tions, k.c. were presented, and duly at
tended to.
in senate —Friday, Jan. 12.
1 The speech of his Excellency the Gover
- nor was committed to the Hon. Messrs.
3 Dane, Jones, and Davis (ps Portland.)
' The statement of the late Treasurer Da
' vis, on the finances, was taken up, and con
, fidcred.
: Xf)t<sa3ttte*
; PHILADELPHIA,
A MONDAY EVENING, JANUARY it.
ExtraS of .a letter from Paris dtit til, OS, 30.
" Our commifTioners have not advanced
« one Hep towards negociation. My hopes
and fears are on the alarm-"
!, LITERARY,
f . We are happy to fee that Mr. David
1- Weft, of Bolton is add to the /na
h uy ufeful publications with which he has
_ r benefited his country,' an edition ps count
Is K- l,m f or d's " Essays, political economical
l_ aud philosophical."—This eminent philofo
•s pher is one of those felf-taught geniuses,
it whom no disadvantages of birth and edu
■ cation can depress. His origin was obfeure
h being born at Woburn, a few miles from
e hence. He came, a country lad, into this
e town, and attended behind the counter of
an English goods (hop, where he probably
[| found the best means of information that
u were afforded to his youth. From, fuchan
" humble origin he has risen to the highest of
y fiees, civil and military, under the duke of
Bavaria ; and he who was familiarly known
_ here by the name of Benjamin Thompson,
D is now Count of Rumford and, what is
. more, a philosopher and benefaftor of mait
" kind. (Salem Gaz..).
PRICE OF STOCKS.
Philadelphia, January 16, 1797.
Six Fer Cent. 16/9 to jod
Three per Ctnt. 10/4 jd-
Deferred 6 per Cent. 13/j < e d.
BANK United States, 22 per cent.
e 1 Pennsylvania, 23 per cent.
North America, 45 per cent.
." 'nfurinceCo. Pennsylvania, sto 6 percent.
" —: 'N. A, Ihares 40 per ceat.
; GAZETTE M ARINE LI ST.
I PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
t s fbip Koba and Betsey, Nimmo, from
- Bristol.came up from the fort yesterday, at which I
, time the outward-bound vtfTels had not left that
c place.
A schooner, with part of the rigging of the '
e ship John, Folger, also cait>c up yeflerday as- I
e ternoon ; several others, lmall vcfTels, got up |
] from Chester—the quantity of ice in the river 1
■ renders it unfjfe at preicnt for large vefirls to
attempt coming up.
Arrived at New-Castle on Saturday last, the
brig John, Smith, from St. Jago de Cuba, and a
' Danish schooner unknown, 23 days from St.
Thomas's.
New-Tori, Jan. 18. .
ARfi 1 VED DAYS,
t Thursday.
Brig Neptune, Stevenson, St. Kiits 13
Scfcr Suffolk, Clark, Gonaives 22
Bellona, Crooker, Wilmington
Cleared, Schr. Jane Maria, Marfchalk, Cur
racoa- Schr. Veneiia, Roberts, Gonaives.
Yesterday.
Ship Jofiah Collins, Blair, Liverpool j
' Brig Sophia Carey, St. 'I homas jjJ
Schr Clara, Rebertfon, Curraeoa ■>
J o
CHARLESTON, January 1.
The following copy of a hand bill, pub
lished at Columbia by order of the house
was handed vis for publication, by a gen
tleman in the majority. It may be proper
to suggest, that a pait of the intended ap
propriation was for the purpose of building
three gallies; and that the sum of 60,000
dollars was afrerwards granted unanimoujly,
for the purpose of purchafiug arms and am
munition.
In House of Representatives, December 14,
1 797-
The house proceeded to take into conGd
eration a report of a joint committee, to
whom was referred that part of the govern
or's message No. io, which relates to the
precuring arms and ammunition,. supplying
the arsenals, and placing the state in the belt
posture of defence.
On reading the firft clause, a motion was
made,and feconded,that the following words
in the report be (truck out, viz." the sum of 1
100,000 dollars be appropriated by a' clause 1
to b? inserted in the tax bill for." And to c
insert in lieu thereof, the following words," 1
that our representatives be inftrufted to en
; deavor to procure from the United States e
a graxil of 100,000 dollars, to be appropria- £
ted to the." ]
On the question being put to agree to the
fame, the ayes and noes wete required by
seven members, and are as follow: Ayes 51 I
noes 48. j
So it was resolved in the affirmative, p
Ordered that the ayes and noes be pub- n
li(hed for the imformation of the lcgiflture si
By order of the house, ° <j
John Sandford Dart, c. h. r. I 3
•Foreign- Intelligence.
LONDON, November 3.
Admiral ueWmter has exprefled his (Ironjj
- defjre to return to Holland -It is his
earned w!(h that he may be fuffiered to re
s turn to his couptry, if it were only for the
single pnrpoft of impeaching his qu on dam
friend, Admiral Storfy, of the double crime
°f fafehood and cq war diet; and this he has
pledged himfelf to do at the hazard of his
f life.
> Louis XVIII.has set out for Peterfburgh
f taking with him 100 feled mert as his body
1 guard ;in cafe he accepts the elhblilhmcnt
- offered by Ruflia, they are then to wear the
> Ruff: an uniform.
. Bath and London are St p'refent ?$1 of
Irish families, and njanyunore are* timing
- over to England, for fear of being burnt out
- or lilled hJT'w the supporters of regular go
vernment.
November 12.
His Majesty, on. the firft interview with
• Lord Duncan aniLCaptain Fairfax,expreffed
some anxiety to know how long tlicy had
- been (hipmates :—The venerable Admiral
- replied," lam ajhamed to tellyour.Majefty
how long." Captain Fairfax observed, he
5 had had that honour and hap
piness for the space of/even and forty years.
A reduftion is immediately to take place
-< in the military eftabljfhmjnts of this kingdom
notwithstanding the threats of our Gallic
neighbours.
LUCCA, October 27,
The last fitting of our little senate was
i particularly turbulent and ftorrey ; several
s of their excellencies were driven from their
curule chair, and the assembly could scarce
ly keep from blows. AJconliderable party
■ has to recognize the legitimacy
d i»f the present government, and we are on the
1- point of experiencing a revolution,- which
is will probably destroy within our wails the
t expiring remains of our government.
'•
COPENHAGEN, 0&. i 7.
i, Mr. Adams, who left Hamburgh on the
1- 2d, goes as an American envpy, withrfull
e powers to Berlin,
a
is BRUSSELS, Nov. 8.
if . The Austrian commandtr of the fortreff
y es of Ehrenbreitftein havinj received infor
it mation that it had been ptfclicly given out,
rt that he had received order; immediately to
f- evacuate that place, and to gjve it up to the
>f French troops, has publicly declared, that
n it was falfe that he had received any fueh
1, oraers, and that on the ccntrary, he had
is received orders to preserve. (hat fortrefs with
t- more vigilance than ever.
PARIS, Novenber 8.
Letters from Wefel ftatt, the Prus
sian cabinet has received adrices which assure
'<! them that the French government intend,
ftuiuld the war with Briuin continue, to |
fend a body of troops by the way of Bremen
to take possession of Hamburgh, in order to
close that port against the Britjfh on the
continent. This news has caused much a-
Jarm, and it is said that Prussia, fttuuMfcich
i a design exist, would oppose it.
. | The minister at war, in a circular letter
addressed to the commjljioners of the execu
tive directory, complains that the necessary
n aftivity is not used to make the requisition
'' men join the armies, and requires them to
' j redouble their ae3l.
pi PARIS, November 7.
. I Julien Souhait, it the fitting of the 3d
1 1 in the council of five hundred, refpefting
r the ereftion of turnpikes in the public roads
for collection of tolls, said, " why, because
England has turnpikes on her public roads,
• must France needs have them too ? Can our
. government have any thing in common with
that of a people enslaved under the name
of liberty, and whose 'turnpikes b-y the bye
will foofi be broken down by our phalanx
es ? He then proceeded to prove th^t
> fuchan impost would prinfipally fall on a -
griculture and clog trade, manufactures
and travelling.
On the 4th inft. Fabre presented.the fol
lowing statement of the ordinary and extra
( ordinary expences for the 6th year of the
French Republic :
. Indemnity to Eleftors 829,080 fr.
Council of Elders 2,543,592
Council of Five Hundred 4,887,960
Archives 105,540
Executive Diretftory 2,736,125
Minister of Justice 7>075) ' 9 8 3
Minister of the Interior, 38,154,0 c
Minister of Finance ( 4,966,108
Minister at.War 341,054,010
Minister of the Marine, ' 83,500,000
Minister for F. Affairs *,501,688
Minister of General Police, 1,963,ce0
The f National Treifurer 4,684,419
Renis and Pensions, 83,253 257
Auditorfhip of Accounts " 675^000
Extraordinarjes '5.989,673
616000000 fr.
(Pounds fterhng about) 25,500,000
November 9.
The congress of Raftadt wOl open on the
1 ft of December. 1
One of the journals asserts, that Bqona- '
parte has. demanded full leave from the di-!'
retftory to retire altogether, but that the
directory persist in their determination to
make him finith the negociation at Raftadt.
1 he Duke de Richelieu has been appoint
ed major-general and commander <r.f the re- j '
giment of Cuirafilers of his Majesty the' ,
Emperor of Russia.
November 20. '
The Marquis of Pombal, a Poituguefe 1
Nobleman, arrived in town yesterday from
Lisbon, ott,a diplomatic errand us much itn- a
portance. This nqbleman isfonof the late
minister of in the reign of the pre- I ]
sent Queen j father. Phe marquis is this
day to have an audience w-ith lord Grenville,
and bn Wednesday next he will be I'ntrodu- • "
»
j ced to tbc King at St. James's in his pub
lic chara&er, as minister plenipotentiary.
Among tlie lateil promotions by the Cm
pcroa of Ruffu, a number of Poles are ap
ig pointed to the government of provinces,
lis &c. in their native country.
fie LONDON, November 18.
, m A very extraordinary application has late
ie ly been made to the court of directors of
as the India company, for leave to fend out
is IJO mifiionaries to India by the ships of the
fnext season, for the conversion of the Gen
rh toos. The application came thro* a cler
ly gyman of the dissenting interest, whose for
nt tune is said to amount to 100,0001. and the
lie company was to be free of any expence.—
The directors have, however, rejected the
of offcfr. . 1
ig The king of Denmark has nominated a
ut committee for promoting the liberty of the
0- press in bis dominions
The marriage of the king of Sweden
w|th the princifs of Meckletiberg Schwei
th rin was celebrated at Stockholm on the z1 ft
sd ult.
id -The Ij;-eft fleet, the greater part of which
al has lately been dismantled, confiits of the
ty following (hips ,
le Guns. Guns.
p. Le Peuple 120 L'lndomptable 74
■/. La Convention Le Patriote 74
ce Nationale 110 Le Trajan 74
in Le Terrible 110 Le Nestor '74
iic Le Republican no Leßedoutable 74
Le Tonnant 80 Le Caffand 74
La Vifloire 80 Le Tourville J74
Le Jupiter 80
as Le Formidable 80 Le Phteton 74
al LeGu*llaumeTell74 Le Fougeux 74
:ir Le fiarras 74 La Pegafe 74
e- La Revolution 74 Le Monre Blanc -74
ty La'Conftitution 74 Le Duquefne 74
;y Le Rousseau 74 Le Tyrannicide 74
tie Le
:h Lejemappe 74 Le Berwick 74
tc Le Marius '74
The Cadiz fleet consists of 33 fail of the"
line.
The whole of the fubfeription for the re
be lief, of the widows and orphans of the fea
ill men who were wounded in the late a&ion
it is expe&ed will amount to no less. than
2 J,oool. that on the occafionof lord Howe's
viftory was 22,0001.
ff. i~—x— . :
ir - On SATURDAY, 2-jik injl.
it, At 6 o'clock in the evening, will be Sold by Pub
to Lie Vembue, at the Coffie-houfe,
he An elegant House, No. 78,
at JN Walnut-street, which, is 25 feet front, by 171
feet deep, with a lot adjoining 10 i-a feet wide, by
id 7» feet 9 inehesdeep ; this lot is back of the house
occupied by George Willing, Esq. The house is
completely finifted in every refpedt. It is 50 feet
deep, has two large parlours, the front one *4 feet,
the back 21 by 181-2 feet ; a handsome drawing
room »4 i-a by 24 feet ; the rooms below, the
f«. drawing room, and chamber adjoining, have ma*
re bogany doors, and tliefe rooms, as well as the rooms
above them, have a communication with each oth
er ; the height is the firft and second stories are I a
to feet, and those rooms have stucco cornices »ndnine
rooms up ftaifs, besides the garrets, which are di
to in *° three rooms > a g°°d kitchen, wa(b and
, milk heufej fiiower and plunging baths, a large
ice house, a pump in the yard, and a 3 feet % inch
a- alley, that leads into Fourth-street. * The cellars
:h are laid with lime and floored with two inch plank
and plaiftered : the yard is well paved, and the
cr house is clear of ground rent; it is rented for one
year for 400 pounds per annum from the 4th of
November last. Two brick ftabUs in Wainut
ry street, with two coach hcufe3, one of them will
m hold two carriages, the o;her ,one; .the faialleft fta
to as room for three, and the largest for lour
. h rfes: it is 11 f«et front on Walnut-ftreot, by co
feet 3 inches deep ; t l ey have excellent tofcs over
than, and ai« now rented for 100 pounds per an
\d nurn; «he cellar is arched and laid *ith two
ig inch plank, and will bold about 100 pipes of wine ;
-jg is clear of ground rent; has the privilege of an
k II 1-2 feet alley, that lead* inro Fifth-ftreet.
Alio, a large brick flure, 33 feet fronton fourth
> street, by 50 deep, which might at 1 fmail expence
be turned into a handsome dwelling houfe > havipg
h been so contrived in the building: it his a yard 48
ie feet fix inches deep, by .24 wide; has a rain water
P g pump and necsflfary, and the cellarlaid with two
inch pjaak, and 16 now rented at 250 pounds per
annum ; the rent was paid down for 18 months,
it This building is*fuhje<stto a ground rent of eleven
dollar*and three quarters per anrum
■s on the east lide of Fourth-ftreef, 10
feet front by 50 feet, it joins on the end of Dr.
Rush lot, and has the privilege of a three feet al
ley adjoining, it is to a ground of ilx
1- dollars per annum.
e Purchasers, before the fa!e, may apply to the
fuhferiber, Gtorge Meade, or
FOOTMAN & CO, au^Uoneers.
, BALL.
3 Mr. Francis refppft fully informs hii scholars,
. and tlie public in general, that his third prifl
> ifing Ball will be on Thursday the 15th, at the 1
> ne wAlTemblyßoom, South Fourth Street, bet ween '
; Chefnot and Walnut street—Ladies tickets to be 1
1 had by applying to the scholars of ftlr. Francis,
5 orathrs hoiafe No. 70 Xorth Eighth Street.— 1
5 Gentlemen's tickets one dollar each, to be had 1
of Mr. rrancis, at the Academy, or at hi® house. '
'Mr. Francis likewtfe informs the Subferibers '
3 , to the Selea Balls, that the next will be on '
) 1 uefday the 301!' fiibfcribew who have |
; not ytt received their tickets, are requested to
) apply for them as above.
, Mr. Francis continues to take Scholars as u- ;
' fual. * '
" Jan. 21. d 4t j
For Sale,
J4)e time of a young Mulatto Girl, abnut
twelve .years -old, ha? about eleven years tofc-rve.
She is very capable of taking ca-e of a child 0
and underflands house work. Enquire at No! a
. 97. North sth Itreet. 1
. f J an ' * 2, *eodiw tl
This day isPublilhed,
At the Qffice of the Aurora, No. 11«, Market Street,
| P-ice one dollar a half,]
A view of thecondu'ft of the EXfcCUTIVE in the »
! WRF.IGN AFFURS of the United Stan's, connefl- h
■ ed with the Mission to the French Republ c during o\
the years, 179 5 ,6, . p
By JAMES MONROE,
Late MinilUr Plenspo'entiai v to the tind Republic
IlluUnted by his INSTRUCTIONS and COR.
RESPONIIENCE and o'her authentic document^
A very liberal allowance to those who bny to ; £ .)j -p
again. 041 5
Bcc -rnbtr 23,
* ' ' ■ 1 R
: Hyson and Young Hyson Tea. , P C
! A few cheflf of CT cell«p t quality, For Sali, W - ac
ner of Second and Pin« street*;. vv
1 J>tc«mb.r 16. - co , f .
NEW-THEATRF.
I-
By particular desire, ar.dfor the cntfrtjiinmfrf
*' of the Chefs 01 the W\i~dot Indians.
THIS EVENING, *
JANUARY 22,
Will be pr.-C-nttd a celebrated Tragedy, callecJ
Romeo and Juliet.
Romeo, Mr. Moretrfti
1 Paris, Warrell, jun.
e Montague, VV T arfell
i- Capulet, ?S"', Morris
Mcrcutio, Bernard
Benvolio, Fox
e Tibalt, Taylor
Friar J.awre/ice, > Wa.rcn
Friar John , Hunter
e Baitbazer, T. Warrell
Apothecary, Francii
» -Peter Bliflet.
e Juliet, M'j. Merry
tSjy Ca*ulet, L'Eftraug*
Nurse, (firlt time) Francis.
, n In A£l I. a Masquerade, will) a dance by the
l " characters,
ft In AA V. 3 Funeial proceflwn and Solemn;
' Dierge.
h The vocal parts by MellYs- Marlhat, Darlev,
e Hardinge, W arrell, jun.T. Warrell —Mrs. Old
mixon, Mrs War—.l, Mrs Warren, Mrs Stu
art, Miss Milbourne, Miss L'tftrange, Miss An
'' derlon, &c.
4
4 To which will be added a Comic Opera, called
4 The Agreeable Surpiife.
4 Sir Felix Friendly, Mr. Warren
4 Compton, Darley
4 Eugene, Warrell, jun.-
4 Chicane, Warrell
, John, Taylor
Thomas T. Warrell
"*■ Cudden, Bliflett
4 Lingo, Bernard
4 Laura, Mrs Oldmixen
4 Mrs. CheSiire, L'Ellrange
4 Covflip, .Warreu
zj Fringe L'EftrHnge*
On Wednefdav, ( for the firft time in A
■ merica,) a celebrated Comedy, called the Will
qr,a School tor Daughters —with entertainments
le
Box, one Dollar ; Pit, three quarters of a Dol
lar ; and Gallery, half a Dollar.
fjp The doors of the Thsatre will open at five,
n and the curtain rife precisely at fix o'clock.
Phces' lor the Boxes to be taken at the Office in
" the front of the Theatre, from io till 1 o'clock,
s and from io till 4on the days of performance.
Tickets to be had at H. and P. Rice's book-fto.re.
No. 50 Market-street, and at the Office adjoining
theTheare. VIVAT XSSfI/BLICA !
Recently Publijhed,
Aud ju!l imported from England, by .William
Griffiths, No. 177, South Second llreet, and
I may be had of Morg «n J.
y A Cheap and valuable work, in two cloftly
e XI printed volumes ,in Bvo. (price 3 dollars)
£ Illustrations of Praphecy :
In which are elucidated matjy predictions, which
occur in Isaiah, Daniel, the writings of the E*an
c gelifts, and book of Revelation ; which art tho't
_ to foretell among othsr great events, a revolution
, in France, favorable to the interests of mankind,
_ th« overthrow of the papal power and of etcleii
t aflical tyranny, the downfall of civil defpotifn,
e and the subsequent melioration of the llate of the
world : together with
d A large collection of Ext rafts,
e Interspersed through the work, and taken from
h numerous commentators, particularly from
s Joseph Mede, Sir Isaac Newton,
k Vitringa, Mr. William Lowth,
e Dr. Th. Goodwin, Fleming,
e Dr. Hem y More, Bengelius,
Dr. John Owen, Daubuz,
Dr.Crcflencr, Whitby,
Peter Jurieu, Lowman, ,
Bren.us, Bishop Newton, and
Bilhop Chandler. Bishop Hurd.
By JOSEPH LOMAS TOWERS.
Besides various other inquiries treated of in
th:s work, and numerous illustrations of prophecy •
it contains a considerable number of fa&s or ob
servations on the'fymbolie language of prophecy
the authenticity, ul'es, and ebfeurity of the apo
cafypfe, and the genuineness of the Hebrew pro
phef; on the rapid corruption of ehriftianity i a
the fourth century ; on the dil'pertion andreftora
tion e' the Jews, the hiitory of the falfe Mefliahs
«ho have appeared among them, and the rcafons
111 support of the conjeiture that the Afghans are
the dsfcendants of the ten tribes; on the
rsiiftance to opprefiion ; on the; irruptions of tin
northern nations, and the causes of the decline and
fall of the tf.on.lan empire ; on the customs of tlis
1 auars, and the independence of the Arabs ; on
the conquests of those nations, and those of' the
Turks ; an the usurpation of the Man.alukes, and
tfos pail hiitory and prefeat ftatc of Egypt • on
the charaiter and conduCt of Conflantine, fultini
an, Clovis, and Lewis XIV ; on the scarcity of
books in the dark ages, and the cauics* of the de
cline of literature ; on th# rapid rife of the French
monarchy, and the causes of its fall ; on the in
conGftencies in the political charadersof bishops
Newton and Hurd j on the peculiarities of Dr
<r ® urn «'» t^ or y »f 'he earth ; on the ben.ficial
eflVCts which ehriftianity has produced in favor of
learning and civil liberty, an i its tendency to pro
motethe of equal governments.
ludependent of the large proportion of original
matter contained in thefo volumes, those who are
Intcrefted in thefubj.a will', it isprefumed, with
to perule or confultthem; because the extracts in
troduced ia them, which are accurately cited, and
marked with inverted commas, are taken from a
f re u'7 " umber of Writers on the prophecies fa;
leart ,( the roman catholic commentators be c
cluded) than are easily accessible to any one ind,vi
dual even ia Europe, or are probably to be found
in any one library in the world. They are iur
nilhed with indexes, and a coj ious table of con
ten,r. Tan. 22—2nwiw
Ihe Members
OF the Society of the Sons of St. George efta.
Em M Ph,la ? t ' , f h . U > for thc advi « and afflftanca
of Engh.hmen in diftraTs, are requelted to attend
a Quarterly Mating of the said Society at the city
Tavern, on Tuesday th e * 3 d inft at 5 o'clock ia
t<Wterno»n. GEORGE D WIS, Sec'rv
Itnuarv 1,7
— — —»■ ■ V
A Gardener wanted.
A person well acquainted with gardening, and
who would occasionally atte „d mirket, ra,
"v. 0 ' 51 "PPV 1 ")? at the 12 mile (tone,
on the Bhftol r.,ad, or-'No. IC9 , Arch ftre.-;,
riiiiadelpiua. • A single man u-ould beprefered
i- zLtf
1 lie History of Pennsylvania
By-KOBEHT proud,
P refs ' and will be publiftcd"
with all convenient expedition, by Zech/.-
jun. No. 80, CJiefnut-ftreei,
Philadelphia where luMcriptions wilLcontirre
p be rccetved, and at the Philadelphia Library
according to the printed propyls, U nti' tl »
work is ready frr thefubferibers.
1 aawtfPrmcetori—^Akiv-Jerfy.
To be Soldt
r f 'HAT nrat and cor.veni-iit Hotife in wliich
I the late- Mr«. Ann Witherfp«<*n. nrw Mrs.
Ann Walker Jived ; together with all the appur- j
unices. The house is two stories of frami
work, and painted. There are ire four rooms
;md an entry on the lower floor, and five town*
on the fccond floor. Zhe cellars arc dry, and the
jra:ret fpacicus —The b**ck yard is paved wi h t
froiiC*, In it arc a well of excellent water, an ]
own, a foioke houie, ami house for »Ti«s—and
behind it a carriage Hx>ufe; hay left, granary, and '
c ftabfr*, wi:h four stalls f or horses, dud
four for nea? cattle. The lot is 60 feet wide upon
the ftfen and 254 feet dac£,fomewha: more than
one half of which is made ivto a kitchen garden {
of an excellent foil.
For trims, which will be made very reasonable, 4
appl> to the reverend
Samuel S. Smith.
Tannery 19 I»W4W J
Houie and Lots, in tiordentrwri. 1
• <
r l"0 BE SOLD, a handsome two flory Houfr.
X with the Lot on which it is eredted, fltuated I
about the middle of the beautiful and healthy <
Village of Borw' TiHown. The house is forty two (
feet front, and in neat order. v The lot contains S
otieacre, and is one hundred feet on tbe main I
itreet, and extends with the fame breadth toback C
ftrcet. Also, a large Lot, containing nearly tour
acres, separated from the former by back ftfdet. I
One third onjy of the purchase money will be re- w'l
quired upon executing a deed, and for the re- J
mainder, such credit will be given as the purchase U
er may chufc. This property will be fold fre« o- C
ail incumbrances, and an indisputable title give«f I
For further particulars enquire either of Dr. h
Williuji Burner, rcfidicg in l3ordcntown, near. f.
t'ae premises > who will (hew the fame, or of 1 (
PETER THOMSON, s
Conveyancer, no. 144, Market-street.
December 1. 3awtf
Ran away the 25th of Decem
ber, 1797, aNegroMan, about s feet 5 or 6 inch
is high, of a yi-llow complexion j when spoke to
and called by his name he has a quick (harp look
out of his eyis and (hews the white of them very
much ; has taken all his eloathes with him, which
are, a new kersey great coat, a grey broad cloth
and clrde bodied coat, a (Iriped nankeen
breeches, silk (lockings and ruffled fhiits, and a
number of other eloaths. Th« said Negro under
(laads farming, and is a pood (hoemaker and car
penter ; he can read and write tolerably well—lt
is likely he may forge a pass. Whoever takes up
, ('aid negro and secures him, so that I get him, (half
have Thirty Dollars reward, paid by the fubferiber,
Susannah MEBroafc, living in Still Pond, Mary-
land, Keut coonty.
N. B. The above Negro is 19 years old.
January a. 6t
FOR SALE<, bt
William Priestman,
129, South Front-street, next door to the Cuf
tom-houf«, b,
A large ajfort merit of
1 Gold and ulver Watches
A Tirrve Keeper, by Arnold
Some plated Candlesticks
liouble barrelled Guns, by Mortimer, maker
t« the King of England
Ditto, by Parker
Pair duelling Pistols, by Knubley, Charing B
Crof»
Refleiilisg Telefdope, by Ribright
llox of patent Medicints
6b lb. Scotch Thread
Siha'l of valuable Books, and
BocJcs of. Prints I 1
30,000 acres of Land in one lot, upon the f<
Big Sandy, in M'afon county, Kentucky, pa- c,
tented by Percival Butler, in 1787-
Also, 14 Lake Erte Lots P
Invoices or parcels of Watches bought. a
January 4. d7t
James C. Samuel W. Fisher,
AT THE:R STORE, n c
No.*lj, corner of Arch and Front streets,
HAVE FOR SALE,
Cotton and worsted Hosiery in trunks, alTorted
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannels
Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Fuflicat silk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs ditto
Ditto Gurrah*
Bengal black TafFitics
4000 pieces Nankeens, and
Few chests best Hyson Tea
Alfo —1500 boxes best London Window Glass,
from Bby 6, to 19 by 14 —and 15 hhds. Glass P
Ware, aflorted, which they willdifpofe of cheaper
than any in the city. f c
november «8. 3awtf 0
Imported (via New York) on the -
(hip Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for
sale by the fubferiber, at No. 61, Chefnutftreer, '
between Second and Third Streets, the follow
ing articles . f (
.v.Maharagonges Charconna (<
Chintz and Calicoes Dacca worked muslins 0
Gillis p.oma!i Bandannoes -
Penfiafoes Chafla Rorrtals 3
Blue cloth Hair ribbon ir
MullMuJlh»nkerchlefs Palempores 0
Patna do. Banarcs Opium
Lesser Car Jimuin Seeds. ®
Samuel Wilcox.
November 17 tuth«4w
Imported in the brig Eliza,
Capt. Hastie, from BourJeaux ; - a
Claret in Cases of a very fupcrisr quality, •*
White Sauterne Wine in Cafe/,
Olive Oil in baficets 9f 1 a bottles each,
White and coloured Kid Gloves, i
do. do. Silk do.
A fsw pipes of BourJeaux Brandy, .
For SjU by
JAMES I ATIMER, jun.
■/1, South Wharv«s.
Who has also for Sale,
\ few qr. Calks Old Sherry Wine.
Dec. ?. daw „
•* NOW LANDING,
At Suuth-ftreet Wharf, i
The Cargo of the Ship Concord,
Captain Thompson, from Bitavia.
About 300 tons firfl qnali'y Java Coffee (the
whole having be«n feU fted)
80 tons Java Sugar, in caniftcrs and bags
to legures of old Arrack
Nutmegs, Mace and Cloves
FOR ail BY
PETER BLIGHT.
Who also offers For Sale,
Just landed from (hip Amity, from Jamaica.
10? hhds. Jamaica and
170 do. do. Rum.
Bovember 13. d6y
Ju/l Publifbed,
And to be had of Messrs. Dokfon, Campbell.Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Bookfcllers iu tSe
city .price oue dollar, twmty-fivc cents,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
Py BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, u. a.
June ao.
1 CLERKSHIP.
j \ You If C" Ma W, who coald I in
t \ rccoinminjatioas, is def.rou* to femploy-
-
, or with a private gentleman —He would en
on moderate terms. For further j-artmu-
L . enquire at the olfice of thi»Gazette. j
IS jiOMiiy I*. - (
.s " OVAL BOTTLES. s
e Quart and half gallon in crates —and a quanti- J
h ty of Claret Bottles of a riglit fize —f ialcat
No. 13, Church Alley. JOHN OOKSEY.
January 11 3taw6y- t
j " FOR SALE, bt ' a
" Joseph Anthony Ss 5 Cci. '
No. 5, Chefnut Street, n
n A cargo of choice fiourdcauxDraady, ift and ad
proof, Just landed M
250 bales of Bourbon cotton of afuperior quality
9 do. Surat, do do 1
A qu'aiitify of heavy bl.tck pepper iH bales
Jiourbon Ind/go of thi quality
High proof Jamaica lpirits
Old London particular Madeira wioe /!n pipes & j
do. market do v qr. calks.
A New England rum in hogsheads
/ Genuine Holland Gin in pipes J
3 Claret in cases
• Spermaceti candle# and flrain'd oil
i Prime Boston beef p
t Choice Halifax Salmon in barrels and half barrels y
r Do. Herring in do do
. Best Boston Mackarel in barrels of the fall fare.
-' New-England tow l : «en
A few tona of Russia cordage
: Ruflia feather bea«
- Clovtr and Timothy feed in
P Long whale-bone
• No i, 2, and 3, Boston fail duck
• A fcW chests firft quality Hyson tea -m
; Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and
An invoice of Dutch hollow glaft ware. ei
N -vember 8. daw. tl
For Sale by the Subscriber,
10 bales Coffas n
40 do. Baftas
1 II do. Mamoody
17 do. Chintz
7 do. Tookery it
1 2 do. Gorahs V
15 do. Mnragungees ft
1 3 do. Check Stripes g
I do. Guzxie
I box Diapers
7 do. Umbrellas
25 pipes fin sit particular Mad»ira Wine, of
the vintage 1795.
MORDECAI LEWIS. d
December 5. 3aw4w b;
For Sale by the Subscribers, -
Prinze Rice in whole and balf tiercel
Bout deaux Brandy
Teneriffe (Vine T
Matajjes "1
Georgia and Garolina bidifco k
Ravens Duck and one hogshead of pai'lt (h
brujhes. P
N. (5* y. Frazer. p
No. 95, Sentb Front Street.
Not'. 7. i dim.
—— K
For Sale, by the Package, e.
For cafb, or good notes at Gxty or ninetydayj, C
vix. ri
Book and Jaconet Muflinrj plain")
stripes, and Checks I
j j _u i t Adorted in
do. do. j amboured .
do. Ladies handkerchiefs, & | ac a^e '" n
gentlemen's neck do. J 0
Jaconet chintz muslin for home an<}. the Weft J
India market, Pullicote jnd linen handkerchiefs,
for do. do printed do. do..common purple and
chintz (bawls.
Tlie above g,oods entitled to drawback on ex- v
portation. Also a few scotch cambricks and an k
aflortmeiit of muslin by the piece.
The whole of th« above being a consignment °
from the manufailu-rers in Britain. ''
To be seen at William Blackburn's P
Office, No. 64, South Second Street. n
Nov. 6. aawtf.
" THE AMERICAN LADIES
POCKET-BOOK, for 1798. v
ft
.JUST PUBLISHED v .
By WILLIAM Y. BIRCH, J
No, 17, foutb second-street—containing
AN elegant Fiontifpiece oFthe Marquis de la Fay
ette, and his Family, in the castle of Olmutz, 0
with an illustration ; being an account of the princi- 11
| pal events in the public lite of the Marquis, with a n
sketch of tht fuffcririgs ot himfelf and his unfortunate p
family* A complete Almanack—lo4 ruled pages si
for memorandums, observations, &c. alfo,for account p
of monies paid and received for every day in the year
—a marketing and other ufeful tables—general meet
ings of friends—Lift of births, dea'.hs, &c,-»-ncw
country dances, poetry, songs, eaigmas, &c. &c*
' ALSO,
The Gentleman's annual Pocket Remembrancer,
for 1798—containing an Almanack; 104 ruled pages
for memorandums and calh account ; Duties payable
» on goods imported into the United States. Cultom
, cufe fre«, &c; flamp duties, to take place after the
3 lflDcc mber; a lift of the pod towns and cross-roads
tn the United States ; a variety of ufeful tables, and
other imerefttug matter.
W. Y. BIRCH, constantly kee-ps for sale, a general
afTortmentof Merchant's account Books, and other r
(tat onary goods, and makes to order books of any
and ruled to any pattern.
Elegant Maps, on Rollers, and a large Chart of the 0
Well-Indies. s
Hair and leather Trunks—Playing Cards, Engfifli ,
and American. Dec. 27 —* 31.
Yellow Fever and Peltilential
Diseases.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, in one voj. o<slavo. 1
By William Young, Booifeller,
No. 51, Second (Ireet, the cor:.7 of Chefnui Itreet, ]
f Price, in boards 8 7 I ? Ctnts)
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
. Paper, 1
A VIEW
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles eftabliflieil in tlis elements j
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
' JO H N B ROW N, M. D.
' With an attempt to correfl some important er
ror 9 of that work, 2nd cases in illustration, chief
fy fe!edled from the records of their pra<Tticf, at , k !
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br William Tates & CaAi. Maclsan.
I To which is fubj.incii, a Treatise on the a&ion
i of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion f'or the cure of diseases of indirect di bility.
AtididifTertation ontlie fourcts of Epidcmicand,
Peftilentialdifeafes; in which isattempted toprove
by a Mimerous indliflion of fai£l>i, thit they ne
ver arile fi"C*n contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain flatcs, or certiin viciflitud<»s of
the atmofpliere, by Charlks Maclvan, of
Calcutta.
e, nov. at. Jut
7ico furnijhed Roams to be Let.
g Enijuire at No, 16;, Spruccllreet, between
4th and sth streets. Any perfoo who (hall rent
the above, m»y if required, be accommodated
with board.
Jan. 15. *»t
■ t
Prison Manufactory.
FOR SALE,
At the Prison of the Citv and County of Philadel
phia, - • •
Out Naih of alHizes, from 3dy to 2ody
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, faddie and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped JLogwood
Shoemakers and Thrci^
Also—Sawed Mqrbic, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and hea:: ftonts, hearths, chimney piects,
platforms, flahs,facia, Window hei-J*. ii!U, c .
All which may he had on reasonable terms.
Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prifoa at n
a moderate price.
Orders from a distance, diredled to Daniel Tho
mas, agent syr the prison, will be attended to. t
December 26 mth6m
Doctor Rush's
Literary, Moral, afid Philosophical
■ Essays.
I One Volurnty &tlalo.)
This Day is PuWifhed,
By Thomas Zsf Samuel F. Bradford, ®
No.' 8, South Front Street,
( Price ttuo Dollars,)
Essays. Literary, Moral and Philosophical, N
By Benjamin Rush, M. D.
And Pro£effo"! of the Inftuotea o! Medicine, and L
Chemical Pradice, in the UiaverGty of Penofyl
vania. C
™the Press, B
Andfpeedily will be vublifhed, C
t PERRIN's g
Elements of French Conversation.
January 16 3tcod
DANCING tc
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL presents his p .
malt compliments to his form- -
er employers and tfie citizens in general. aHd re
turns lii 6 molt grateful thanks, for the very
bountiful encouragemeut he has expetienced for
tnel'e twenty-five years past, takes this opportu- j
nity of informing them, that his fcliocrf is now I,
open, at his ci
Elegant Ball Room, p
in South Fourth-Street, between Chefnut and tc
Walr.ut-ftreets. T,o begin at 10 in the morning P
for young ladies, and 6 in the evening for yo»ng
gentjemen.
Dec. ff. aawtf. _
Employment for che Poor.
r flax for spinning,
Tr> be given out every second, fourth, and'fixth ai
day morning, between the hours of 10 and ia— a
back of no.jz, south Fifth street, ahove Spruce- 01
street. eodaw
" COLUMBIA HOITSE ,
Boarding Scfiool for young Ladies, j
MUS. GROOMBUIDGE wirh much pleas- 1
nre and iu'|ief\, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
she has received tfuring four year» relidence ia
Philadelphia ; aid allures her friends and the 1
public, so fir from intending to decline her J
ithool, (he has narde« fapencsf arrangement for »
the more convenient accommodation of her F
scholars.—Every branch of ufcful and polite A
education is particularly attended to by Mrs. t(
Groombridgs aid mailers excelling in their
refpeflive prdfefUms. ""? ! '* ■
Cornel l of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797: simftf r
The fituatimi ii perfetfUy healtfcy ; and made tl
more agreeable b'an extenflve garden and lot
of ground adjoiukig the houfe-. c
Fir sale or to be let on ground
rent, !
A valuable Lit of Ground ;
QITUATE on the north-east corner of WaT-"
x.nd tilth streets, fronting the State- a
House ftjuare. This lot is fifty-one feet front t
on. Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen j.
feet and an. half on Fifth street; there are at
present two small two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Alfo\ for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, kc. situate on
Water-street, between Mulberry and Saflafras
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, snd continuing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widenfbg to the .
south thirteen feet fix inches. Thel'e houses
ave the convenience of apiiblifc alley adjoining j
on the north fide, and are a very defirabfe situa
tion for a merchant, flour fa<Bdr,or others who
may have occasion for ltorage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable torms
forcalh. For further information apply to the
prinPer.
July 31. m&wtf
Uriah Smith,
No. 20, north Third street—has for
A neat and general assortment of
Broad Cloths,Kerfeymeres,Napt
and Drab Coatings. also,
A variety Of Qcnt'.rrtqps' flfltfona"ble fancy Walft
coating, silk Hufiiry, &e.
December ?>'" *god»w
A House iti Burlington for Sale.
THE fubferiber has a large, convenient two
ftory brick House, with Stables, Carriage
houfe, and a well improved Garden, intheCity
of Burlington, New-Jersey, which he wilhes to
sell. For terms apply at No. 5, South Fourth
street, to George walker,
Who has alfofor Sale,
Lots in Walhington City,
Contiguous to the Capitol and to the principal
harbour.
December 19. eo7t
Imported intheIhipMANCHESTER,
Be-njamin Shewell, Mailer,
From Bourdeanx, anri for sale by the fubferiber,
TS t o,ji Walnut Street,
Bonrdeaux Brandy
Irilh market claret 111 eases ( Entitled to
Medoc witte, in- do. j Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomaj Murgatreyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
| Sherry Wine pipes and quarter calks
J Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags *
4000 bushels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&slf-
FOR SALE,
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front ftreet®,
A large quantity of Clocks and
■Watobes. Also, a gewiaf assortment of Tools,
Eiles and Materials, confining of Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hour brat pinions
and f«rge work ; Bslls, clock and watch Dials,
Springs, Hands, Ghfles, Pumice Stone, Emery,
Rott»o Stone, Cat Out; bench, (land and tail
Vices; Turns, Pliers,Chains,Seals, Keys, &c. &c.
*'„* Apprentices Wanted,
novenibcr 3. fSctutf
■I
, ' FOR S/ILE,
By JOHN MILLER,;un. & Co.
No. 8, Ch.inut-ftreet, F
, One hunared and eighty tales r-i
BENGAL GOODS, J
Amongst which arc, r
Gurrahs Mamoodies
Baftas Sannas * tr
Coi- nalra Tartda ColTaes be
Guzzics Emerties
Blue Cloths j Calicoes ' b
Palampoors Komall Handketchiefs fuj
Amongtl them are a great proportion of the
manufa>stures of Patna. thi
December I. fu]
J-UST RECEIVED,
(via Ncw-Y'vrk)
AND NOV OPENING, BY P£
George Dobson,
No Is, feuth Third.fireet, J, O
An cxtenlive and geneKjl aflortnicnt of tib
HABERDASHERY, viz.
Bell London miit Pina Galloons and Fefr.ets thj
Common do. do. Worsted Bindings, aiTor-
Maken*ie*Bi"upcrjpatent tcnJ colours
white chapel Nvedles Imperial, diaper, and
Nuns Thread no, 6 to Thread Tapes
40, regularly assorted White Edgings ; *■
Lisle do.no. I to 500, Black nd coloured phi
regularly nefe Ribbands
Coloured do. - * Sattin and figured do, a
Black fevving Silks Black' Velvet, 1-4 to izd ±
Coloured do. and TwTiJ Velvet Sc pelon Sattiws f er
Silk and cotton Wires French Cambrick to
Do. d©. Ribbands Scotch cto.
Shirt Moulds and Wires Pl/m gilt and pkted ,
Black bruih Feathers - Buttons
And a compleat assortment of G«ods, suitable
to the and approaching season, at reduced ,
prices Dec. 6. dtf
N O TI~CIL
ALL persons who have any demands against '" t]
the estate of Willam Flkewtood, of is ' (
Liverpool, latie of Philadelphia, merchant,"de- (j r
eeafed, are requested to exhibit their accounts, an ,
properly attested ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, to
XT GE «-dobson \ Mmh!jir > r .
No. 25, So. Third-ltreet. )
January 4. .^L
' TO LET,' _ th '
A front Parlour, suitable for vi<
an Office ; a Room, furniilied or unfurnifiiod ; and tu '
alargu Cellar, which will fcrve either for. storage
or a bottling cellar. Enquire at no. 24, South
Fifth-flWet. r
Bearding and Lording to he hjd- Enquire as a- 0
6-—"'t
Mujical Inflrument Manufactory, ™
167, Arch-ilreet. at)
TO THE LOVERS OF HARMONY. to]
HARPER,
Fl FORMS his friends and the public, that he has
now ready for sale-, a few of his new invented, Ci
and much admired fide board Piano Fortes, with
Pedals,patent swell, fonopahant an<f French harp ~"~
stop, which for fenfibiiity of touch, brilliancy of
tonfc, fitnplicity and durability of conftrutSlion, the I
superiority of which,he flatters himfelf, a Angle txi-
al will mnvinrf; the nnnreiudiced judge—As they ye
are manufactured under his immediate iufpe^'riml, / 1
of the very bci seasoned materials, he oan fell on ha
reasonable terms for Cask. Inffrumsnts repaired, fa'
tuned, &c. ca
N. B. Secondhand Piano Fortes taken in ex- hi
change for new. w
navember 18. 2aW2mo. ha
■ - ■ ■ ■ 1 ■ » ■ll
Samuel & Miers Fisher, «
ARE NOW Ot>E!IIN(3, th
At their Warohoufe, No. 27, Dock Street, a frelh
affortrhent of Woolen and other goods, suitable to
the season, received by the late arrivals, from Eng
land.
Tbey have asa for Sale,
Lisbon
Sher-y' and pipCß,lihcls. and quarter cafkis-
Port Wines, ) , m
AlTorted queen's ware in crates, See.
loth mo- 23d. rtxwataw jw. -1
Samuel Pleafints & Sons,
No. 74, South Second-Jlreet, J
HAVE received a supply of Seasonable GOODS,
wßich they are now opening for sale, on
reasonable terms. Oist 27. —4>v
FOR SALE, "
By the Subscriber, at his Store, No. 7j, South tl
Water-street, :
A general allortmsnt of China
Ware
Black and coloured Sattirs
Do. do. Lutestrings
Do. d». Handkerchiefs
Do. do. l'ewing Silks
Imperial and Hyson Teas
Long and short Naskeens J
Quick Silver, in tubs
Hnllaud Gjn, in pipes
AlTorted Glass Ware, in cases
White and brown Havanua Sugars, in boxes
Moliifie*, in hoglheada n
St. Croix Rum and Sugar, in do. y
Loudon particular Madeira Wine n
Sherry and Malaga Wines, in quarter calks I
Red, yellow and pab Barks, in chcfts r
Logwood, &c. &c. ; i 1
> Hru.ri.-~tn&f 4 w JOSEPH SIMS.
frefli Raisins.
h
A Small .cargo, jull arrrveJ, and now landing v
at Chefnut street wharf, from thefloopYa- j,
rico, capt,. Halkell. confiftiwg of Kegs, Boxes and |;
Jars. A few Jars of excellent Grapes, and sacks
of foft shelled Almonds.——-Apply to the Matter
, on board, or to
Jos. Anthony iff Co.
, December 19 §st
Alphabetical Lift of Duties, f
) Payable by law on all Goods, Wares, and. Mer
chandize, imported into the United States—latest
edition, to be fold by JOHN OR. ifROD, no. 41,
Chrfnut-ftreet. IVc 6—d
This Day is Publifked,
liY Mess. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Ric and the
othc* Booksellers,
Price One Doilar and twenty-fivecenu,
Elegantly pnuted on IVove paper, and Uot
prejjtd,
By fcsbn i hr.napfon,
A COMPAR.vrIVi. VIEW OF
The Gonftitutions )
Of the several Spates with taxb either, and with '
that 01 the United States: exhibiting in TabJef, ~
' the prominent features of taeh Gonfiitution, and j
I claflingtogether their raoft impsrtcjit provitipns, ■
under the several heads of adminifcratiun !
Notes and Oblervationi.
Py WILLIAM SMITH, J
1 Of SiiUih-Carolimi, ,
■ I. L'. D. and member of the Congrcfs of the c
'' United States.
Dcdicajed to ths People of ths United States. '
N. B. A few Copies printed 02 an infirior pa- <
per, at 3-4ihsof a dollar.
Gty Commissioner's Office
January, \xth, t 7g7
FOR THI INFORMATION OF THE CITIZENS
THE following arrangement is made by the
said Commissioners, for cleanfine the
flreets, &c.
I illria No. i.—From the north fide of Vine
street to thef.uth Ede of Mulberry-flreet ; to
be under the fuperii)tenda»ce of Nicholas Hicks.
a. From the south fide of Mulberry <}reet, to
the south fide of Cheftiut street to be ur.der the
fuperindance of William Moulder.
3. From the feuth fide of Chefnut street ta
the north fide of Spruce street, to be under the
fuperintendancc of Joseph Cltypoole.
4. From (he north fide of Spruce street, to the
south fide of Cedar street, to be under the
perintcndance of Hugh Roberts. mwfim
The Subscriber,
Informs those to whom he is indebted, that his
books, been kept open for their jnfpec
tioil fmceßccsmber Ijofi are tin: 3 id
lilt. and will, during the ptefetit month remain
open at his Countiug-houfe in Chefnut Street for
their further investigation and fc?ut ; ny.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
Philadelphia, Jan. 1111798.
Jufl received a Frejh Supply,
English Grammar,
The second edition, with improvements,
ADAPTED to the different classes of learners;
with an- appendix, containing rules and ob
servations for aflifting the more advanced ftudenttf
to write with perspicuity and accuracy,
By LINDLEY MURRAY.
" This is a publication of much merit, and fully
answers the profeflions in the Title. The appen
dix contains some of the best rules for writing c
legantly, and with propriety, that werecolleS to
have fees."
Monthly Review, July 1796.
" This Grammar is, on many accounts entitled
to commendatory netice, its materials have been\
carefully and jidicioufly fele&td ; it* arjangemeut
k diftindt and well adapted to the purpofc of in
flru<slion and its expression is simple, pcrfpicuous
and accurate, scci"
See the c bar after, at large in the Analytical
Rm>ie*iv, "July 1796
English Exercises,
Adapted to the Grammar lately published If
Lindley Murray, confuting or exemplification *
the parrs of inttancesof falfe orthography,
violations of the rules of fynrax, defects in punc
tuation, and violations of the rules refpeding
pcrfpicuity and accuracy, designed fer the henefic
j of private iearnevs, a« well as for theufe of fchooli. ,
" W« have been much pleased with the perusal v
of these Exercises. They occupy with diftinguHb
ed excellence a most important place in the fciencc
of the Engliih language; and as such, we can
warmly recommend them to the Teachers of
Schools, as well as to all thof« who are desiroUs of
attaining correilhefs and precision in their native
tongue."
Monthly Review, July 179,7.
The above Boohs are forfale ait Joseph & James
Crdksiiankg book (lore, No. 87, Market street.
January 11. 3tawaw.
60 Dollars Reward.
RAN AWAY from the fubferiber, on the 24 th
of December, 1797., a Ntgr» Man, about 1%
years old, by the name of Cato, he is about 5 feet
- 7tM twrtiiu ...hW4-y—u.,—,—
has a very coarse voice, hi 6 fore teeth ft and very
far apart; there were one or two with him—L
cannot sightly describe the cloaths he took with
him, for he took two or three suits ; he had on
when he went away, a pair, of kerfcy trowfers, a 4.
half worn drab coloured, coat,, a half worn wool
hat ; he took with four very good fairts— : L
he has made for.Philadelphia or the ferfeys.
Whcfoever takes up said negro and fcciires him, ft)
that the owner may ger hint again) Asa) 1 have the
above reward, paid by me, JOHN MOORE,
Living in Still Po»J, Kent county, Maryland.
January 1. *6tagw
Wanted, to Hire,
A I arge and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a generous
rent will be given ; to be taken for a year, or on
more for a longer term. Inquire of the Printer.
Q». !'• eotf
Valuable Books,
Just received by the Faj* American from
London, and how opening and felling by
1 J. Orwrod, No. 41, Chefnut Street.
CATALOGUES
Of the newly iniportedbooks maybe had gra
tis. These added to O's usual; Itcck, fiJrm an
extensive and elegant cpl'edlion of ancient and
L modern literature, and comprise books in sun
dry languages and on various fubje£ls.
This Day is Published,
By J. Ormrgd, (Pric& 75 cents, handsomely
bound and lettered, and pmbellifhed with an
elegant frontifpiece and seventy three cuts.)
The Looking Glass for the Mind,
0 R > - • -i
The Juvenile Friend ;
Being a valuable collection of interesting and
mifce!laneouß incidents, calculated to exhibit to
young minds the happy eft'eits of youthful in
nocence aad filial affeflion—ln prose and verse.
Designed to improve and amu.fe the rising gene
ration.
In the Press. and will be speedily published,
Dr. DARWIN'S
Plan of Female Education.
Subscriptions for this incomparable work wiil
be thankfully received by the printer. The book.
' will contain about three hundred pages, will le
* printed with a new type on fine paper, and de
' livered ts fubferibers neatly bound, iettered ami:
5 embelVifhed with an elegant frontifpiece, for one
r dollar.
Jamnry
This Day Pubiilhed,
Andto.be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of
Second and Chefnut streets,
Price j-Rils of a Boiler,
1 Obfervatioris cn certain Documents
Contained ia Njj. V and VI of
- " The History of the United States for
the year 17965"
£ In which the charge of epiculatio* ajainlt
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
, Late HtCRKT.say of the Txeasv&v, i« FULLY
REFUTED.
IT RIT TS N Br UIMSEIt.
Thisr publicatioa presents a eoncilc ftatcment
o£ the l»afe means pradlifeil by ttfe Jacobins of thp
Uoitcd,States to the cha?aiSlers of rhoft
p-ifons who are conf>d(red«s hoflile te cbrir difor
gauizing schemes. It alf# contains the cor
*' refpondence between Mr. Hamilton afiil Mcjjrs.
Monroe, Mnhlenburgh aud Venab'e, on the sub-
s ' jcit of the document jalorefaid, and a ferics of let
'' ters from James Beynslds and his wife to Mr Ha
milton, proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt,
that the connexion between hini and Reynold;,
was the result cf a daring eonfpirasy-on thr part
■c of the latter and his associates to extort money.
A dit'eouut of ore third from tt,e retail pri.e
will l?e made in favor »t wholefaie psrchafers.'for
1. cash. Orders to be ajdrtffec tc Mr Yocno.
Aug*/! s5.