A!iD Philadelphia Daily Advertiseri
*By John W. Fenno, N°- ii 9 Chefnul Street.
11 ...
From 'ht Farmer's Weekly Museum.
" And fad v 'font appeared unto them with
heavy countenances."
With the punctuality of a merchant, I
ihall now perform the prorraifc ir. my
'all speculation I then took occasion to
, review and to reprove the fantaftic romances
of the eighteenth century. To shew f -me
of their operations upon nervous, timid,
and indeed upon all exquisitely organized
systems, {hall be the business of this sermon.
Jn my digreflive manner, a few topics,
slightly conne&ed with the main defig-n,
will be darted ; and may possibly add to the
amusement of the reader, though they will
hardly improve his logic.
If, ns the farmers fay, "mv memory
serves me." Dr. Beattie his somewhere
cautioned yovtthful readers of fenfibiiity to
beware of immodrately indulging in the
pcrufal of such works as the Night Thoughts
<jf Yot'NS. Thia judicious Scotchman as
signs an excellent reason for his rule. For
he adJs that books, which present sometimes
falfe, and always gloomv views of life, and
which wear ontthe mind by a i onftant fuc-
Ccffion of h'Trors must ultimately prove per
nicious. For terrific and mournful images
are from their very nature striking, and to
men of strong farcyj easily adherer,t. Hence,
in time® of grief and sickness, and even a
inid the common calamities and cares of life,
such images will rife and, in " a long, un
broken, funeral tra n," will continually pass
before our diftradled eyes. One of the most
ufeful and necessary of our virtues is Forti
tude ; a Companion, in the season of distress,
absolutely necessary to enable the fretful im
patience of our nature to tolerate its woes
But when, from our habits of reading and
' thinking, fpp&res, demons, melancholy,
sorrow, black cares and " fights unholy,"
are present with us, Fortitude flies away.
We mistake the phantoms of imagination
for the ills of life. The poison of romance
tijia every arrow from the quiver of fate';
and we fall viftims not so much to the fever
in our veins, or to the poverty of our coff
• ers, as to the despondency of our thoughts,
and lo the '• giant of Despair "
In the works of Mrs. Radcliffe, and
of all her imitators, mournful or horrible
description predominates. The authors go
• out of the walks of nature, to snd some
.dreadful incident. Appalling noises must
be created. Ghosts must be manufaftured
by dozens. A door is good for nothing, in
the opinion of a romance writer, unless it
creak. The value of a room is much en
-1 hanced by a few dismal groans. A chest
full of human bones is twice as valuible as
a calfcet of diamonds. Every grove must
haw its quiet t-ifturbed, by the devil in some
fh pe or other. Not a bit of tapestry but
• must conceal a corpse ; not an oak can grow
without flickering banditti. Now, in real
.life, examined ia any age, or in any coun
try, we cannot find such a series, such a
combination of horrible events, as the ro
• mance writers display in almost every page.
AH their knights ate knights of the doleful
Countenance. Fortunately for mortals,
though there is much misfortune, and much
evil here, yet every objeft is not covered with
a pall. There are cbjefts less fable to our
eyes than the coffin. It is misrepresentation
to state the whole world resembles Bun Van's
'valley of the shadow of death. It is mis
chievous to exhibit such a falfe picture, It
enfeebles the mind. It, induces a habit of
melancholyit strengthens frantic fear, a
. passion remarkable, according to Collins,
for beholding " appalled the unreal scene "
Instead of 'hus wantonly weakening the
mind by «iij-e£ting its attention toghalliy il
lusions, to 'horrible (hadows," and " un
.real mockery," we should adopt the disci
pline of the poet,
" That superstition mayn't <rrcate
" And club it* ills with those of fate,
M I many a notion take to talk
44 Made dreadful by its vizor mafic,
" Since optic reason (hewsme flaiu,
M I dreaded sPECTRf.s of the bkain."
If I had a friend of exquisite fenfibiiity,
whose irritated nerves vibrated like the
chords of music, I would lock up Mr;»
RadclifPs novels.from his morbid curiosity.
I would not fuffer him tef'turn pale at the
thoughts of any of her ghosts. He should
•" laugh and (hake in Rabelais' easy chair."
He fliiuld not walk in any of her galleries,
"nor abide in any of her courts. I would
address him, in the words of the sensible
Greek,
" Love not so much the doleful knell,
" And news the boding night birds tell;
" Nor in imprefl: remembrance keep
" Grim tap'Ory figures wrowght in flcep;
" Nor rife to fse in antique hall
" The MOONLIOHT MONSTtRS ON THI WALL,
" And {hadowy ipeilres darkly pass.
" Trailing their fables o'er the grass."
A hypochondriac would be as much in
jured bv the gerufal of the woful romance,
as by a denial of air and exercise. He
would fancy like Don Quixote, that his
iick chamber was a castle. He would mif
wke his nurse for a witch; and call h s
apothecary " Mentoni.' He would con
ver his phials into " vials of wrath" and
poison, and insist that h s pill box was made
of " gloomy pine" or " black larch wood."
Twt LAY PREACHER.
• ihe Public are hereby informed,
THAT I did not mean to authorise Col. Will
iam Nichols to declare, that I would not pay,
un'efs recovered by law, my note alluded to in his
caution of the 6th ®f Angnft, published in the Ga
zette of the United States of last evening. I sin
cerely lament hit lo!?, aud teld him I would t'o
all I could do confidently With my credit to serve
him, but went no further.
JOIIX TKAFJS,
august 7 i.
august 7
)H I ]%d DELP HI A: THURSDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 20, 1798.
BY THIS DAY'S MAIL.
NIW-YORK, Sept. 19.
Died, On the 15th inft. Mr. Horatio
Gates He -'iUud, iff the bloom of life
On Sunday, of a mortification in his arm,
Mr. Samuel C. Ward, gold-smith and jew
eller ; a native of England.
On Monday night, Mr. Lewis Ogdea,
merchant of Pearl flreet.
Yesterday morning, at 5 o'clock, Ann
Curteniu*, of the prevailing fever, aged 27,
the wife of Peter T. Curtenius.
Yesterday morning of the prevailing fe-
Mr. Andrew Miller, merchant, Maiden
lase.
Yesterday mnming of the prevailing fe J
♦er, Mr. Allen Jackson, merchant of this
city. He was a native of Mancheiier in
England..
BOSTON, Sept. 15.
From GIBRALTAR.
The American Consul at the Havannab,
has purchased of the Spanish government,
on account of the United States, an 18 gun
(hip, with brass artillery. • She is to be
commanded by capt. Preble, and manned
from the American (hipping there. •
Capt. Johnson, from Gibraltar, left there
the 26 July. At that time no accounts of
any aftion between Nelson and Buonaparte
had been received; nor where the fleets
were. The French frigate captwred was
cohjeftured to be n'orth 2,000.000. She
has been manned with prime faiiors, arid
sent to England.
French gasconade was never more con
spicuous, ihan in (he bombastic accounts
they have giver, of the capture of the little
ijland of Malta, by Buonaparte's army, af<
lifted by a large fqnadron of (hips. The
fores of the " Terrible Republic," directed
by one of its most victorious Generals, era
played in the conquest of a " Lodge of Free
Masons It is rather lingular, th3t the
pretence of Buonaparte for his ffault on the
unprepared, and unfufpe&ing Maltese,
Ihould be a want of water for the fleet, when
it is certain, that he had not been at sea
twenty days, and had been into Corsica dur
ing that time. But with Frenchmen, pre
texts are easily found or forged.
MALTA.
The French make merry at the conquest
of Malta. It must be remembered that
Malta was a neutral power ; —that it had
never joined the combined powers, in repell
ing the French ; and, of course, that the at
tack lately made by Buonaparte on it, adds
another violation of the sacred law of na
tions, another inltanceot mercenary violence,
and diabolic ambition, to that black cata
logue of French wickedness, which would
call a (hade over tjie regisr.g of Erebus and
Night. We know net what gov -mment
will be established in Malta ; but we know
the old one, whatever it may be, will be
overturned. The Demon of degenerate
Democracy having great power is riding on
the "wings of the wind ; and a celebrated
French writer, has predicted, that "De
mocracy will devour Europe, and having
nothing tilfe to feed on will devour itfelf."
We trust enough of Europe has already been
destroyed ; and hope the latier part of the
prophecy will fooii be fulfilled.
A Charlejlon p .per of the 2J ft ult. men
tions, that a French 74 had been spoken in
lat. 31. long. 78. —We think it a miflake.
The Decade, a French 44 gun (hip, which
trar.fported a number of Frenchmen to
Cayenne, has been cruizing between the la
titudes of 39 and It is to be hoped,
(he will come, to the northward and west
ward, whan wc doubt not, a good account
of her, will be given to the Secretary of the
Navy.
The Mavbleh;'ad fifhermen have been very
fuccefsful th's ftafon Vast quantities of
.fifh have arrived there within these few days.
the Fever.
Since the return of the 12th inft. eight
persons have recovered, two,bare died, and
Jixteen new cases have occnreed. Thirty
three now remain sick, eighteen of whom are
on the recovery,
By order of the Seiefimen,
WILLIAM COOPER Town Clerk.
Sept. 14.
By this correft ftaremer.t it will ap
pear, though the nurfiber of cases has in
creased, that the malignancy of the fever
is much abated. The chance of recovery
of those tak«n nour is three times as great
as when the diftafe was firft engendered.
Capta'R Robert Burnes, informs, that
he was cap<ured by the French privateer
Vulture, of Bourdeaux, and detained on
board several monlh>, during which time
the Vulture captured several vessels, three
of which were burnt; among the captured
was the Peggy, of N- York ; this (hip-had
a great Dumber of letters on board, that
ought to have been deflroyed ; they have
given fatal information for many merchants
and underwriters in New-T»rk, as they
contained information of goods (hipped on
account and rilk of many merchants in Lon
don, Liverpool, Cork, Bublin, &c. and
some (hip owners, writing for insurance.
All vessels fa infurtd in any part of Great-
Britain is bona 6de Britilh property with
the French. In consequence of this infor
mation, there are three] privateers cruising i
for the (hips so loaded, ai'd to' fa l from N. J
York to the different ports in Britain, — J
r v s .1 4 c .
• * " "*•
Their cruise is frorp 16 degrees weft of Pa
ris to 35, arid I t. 48 N.
Capt. Sterling of Portsmouth, has reta
ken his vessel from the French.
S A L SB M, September 14.
In our last we mentioned a report, that
the Havannah fleet was convoyed by Spa
uifh armed (hips : find, however, that
the convoy was entirily Ameiicah, and con
fided of the (hip Fanny, Wellman, of Sa
lem, 16 guns and'6o men ; the (hip Eaglfe,
Morrifon, of Charleston. guns and 75
men ; br g Fanny, Orroan, 14 guns and 4a
men ; brig Rainbow, 10 guns ant". 20 men.
There tveie 13 Spanish (hips of war lying
at the Havarmh, bu them can-.t as
convoy. Commodore Wellman, on his
arrival in port, gave a federal and truly joy
ful salute. Much anxiety had been euter
tained for the fafety of ihe property now
arrived, as the French pirate boats had been
a long time waiting at the Havannah for
its failing, to take it under convoy to a
French port, but they at length found that
they would have too many guns to encoun
ter, and had waited in vain.
PROVIDENCE, (R. I.) September .15
A fubfeription is began in this town for
the rebef of our fuffering brethren of Phi
ladelphia ; and as every feeling mind must
be sensibly affefted by such complicated
distress, it is prtfumed that the laudable ex -
ample by some of our benevolent
citizens wilj be generally followed.
At Smithficld, on Tnefday lalt, a cart
fell on Mr. Gideon Aldrich, while he was
grerfing the wheels, by which accident he
was immediately deprived of his life
In an affray at Cvanfton, on Saturday last
Hopkins Hudson stabbed Rufus Randall
with a knife, of which weund he died the
fame evening. Hudson was committed to
Gaol, and on Thursday night he attempted
filicide.
At Plainfivld, on Saturday evening last,
an elderly woman, by the name of Cole,
accidentally fell down a pair of stairs and
broke her neck.
BALTIMORE, Sept. 18.
Arrived yesterday, Ship Maryland, Capt.
Beard, 116 days from Batavia. No»news.
The pilot who brought up the Maryland
fay 3 he saw the Constitution's prize, that
she had a great part of her galleries (hot
away, and that (he has now gone into Nor
folk. We hope to receive the whole parti
culars of her capture in a day or two from
some of the officers of ths Constitution
themselves.
MAILS
For Canada Ss 5 Nova Scotia.
A Regular communicatian has been fotnstime
established between the Poft-Ofßce« of the
United St ites and the Post Offices of Canada, New
Brunfwick and Neva Scotia, and will be continued
until further notice.
Those who have occasion to fend letters or news
papers through that, channel must pay the United
States portage at the pott-office, where the letters
or newfpap.'rs are depofted, and without such
previous payment they will not be forwarded.
General Poft-Office, "J
Trenton, Sept. 19, "98. j
September 20 > Itaw^w.
Bank Notts Loji.
TWO letters addressed to Edward Edwards of
Philadelphia, have been loft, between the Poll
Office of that place and Frankford ; the ift letter,
dited at Baltimore, September nth, 1798, con
tained in notes of the Bank of the United States :
No. 30, dated July I, 1794 —30 dollars.
583, do. May 16,1798 —100 dollars.
In the 2d letter, dated at Baltimore September
12, 1795, were tbe folljw'ftg notes of the fame
Bank, viz. J
No. 36, dated.Junelcth, 1798 —50 dollars.
877, do. July nth, 1708 —JO dollars.
6389, do. 0(3:. 6th, 1798 —ico dollars.
Fifty dollars will be given to any pcrfon who has
found and will restore the above letters and notes,
either to Robert Patton, Esq. at 'he Post Office, or
to Mr. John M'Clcllen in Frankford.'
September 20 §
Cauyiont
WHEREAS a certain perfonfwindled
from me on the firft inft. by giving
me inlieuthereof aforged check on the Bank
of North America, anote of that daie, drawn
in my favour by Mr. John Travis; and pay
able in fix months, for three thousand four
hundred fifty seven dollars and forty-fix
•cents. ALL persons are desired not to re
ceive any transfer of it, a 6 it will not be
paid by either the drawer or cndorfer imlefs
recovered by law.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Race Street.
august 6.
For Sale at Public Auction,
ON THE PREMISES,
FOURLOVSon Harper and Keith's wharf. In
Alexandria, on the «6ih day of OiSaber
next, if not fold at private sale before that time.
One of these lot* is near the end of the wharf,
twenty feet beyond which the water istwo fathoms
deep, al out forty feet cut three fathoms, fifty feet
out the water i« four fathoms, and grows deeper
until it come? to the channel, wh/ch »6 about sev
enty feet from the en.l of the whart. '1 li'te is
as much dirt belonging to the bank as will level
the wharf, which nr.ay want raising about a foot
near the end. There is in thi6 sale an half acre lot
very fitforataverft ; it if well watrred, and an ex
cellent (land for that bufinel's. This property will
be fold for ready moaoy, and or lepar
ate, as may heft suit purchaler ;it Uv» 011 the
lower fide of Alexandria, which is now improving
very faift. A fketeliof the ground may bv f.en in
tha ?n.ndi of the Printer hereof, for terms at
private sale, apyly to Wm HartsHorne, or to
the fubferiber, inAlexandria.
JOHN HARPER."
September 3 iawßw
Wanted— A lioy to attend an
Office, situAted ia a heilthy yart of the rity.
Enquire at No. »i, North Seventh llrect
September
tisajette. .
_i ■*--!-■ « ■! 'l'fecaggglMl . U-=. ■■WJ',t j.
PHI LADELPHI A ,
THURSDAY EVEt'iMf!, SEPTEMBER 10.
mortality in p^iladelphu.
COMPARATIVE TABLE.
■ Deaths in
> Sept. 1 17 "I •
tß| - -9*
3 11
4 *3 - *7
5 2G 50
6 24- $3
7 J8 . '63
8 421
; . >■ i4i
9 323 \
19 29 73
11 23 71
12 33 S7
13 37 61
14 48 60
•5 56 57
16 67 6i
17 81 58
18 68 , ' 58
Total 911 1698
The statement of the affair at the jail is
not fufficiently correft. As I have it in my
power, I consider it a duty to reprefer.t to
the public an exaft account of the event—
not of the beginning.'
1 Three men were wounded. Miller, was
I presume, killed by Mr. Wharton, who
deserves all the gratitude that his fellow.ci
tizens can give. He -eceived a ball, which
' was fpli'ted when in wai put in the pistol,
: in his r'ght arm, which broke the bone of
1 his arm into pieces, it paiTed through his
' body, and was extrafted afer his death, for
the fatisfaftion of the jury, from between
' the fifth and sixth rib of the right fide
1 He survived nearly one hour and an half.
' Vaughan ree'eived a ball from a muffcet
pointed at him by one Thomas Evans, who
had been employed as a turnkey and con
stable, and is now keeper of the vagrant
house. It was extrafted from his lungs yes
terday with some difficulty at a quarter pad
12. [He died this morning ]
The other received a wound of a bayonet
from ft fpii ited black man, <*hofe exertions
entitle him to notice. He is not dangerous.
The cdwvias behaved well indeed, and
it is with pleasure I inform the public in
this liafty manner, that every commotion
seems to-be at an end.
B. DUFFIELD.
Sept. 19 th.
DONATIONS,
Received at the Tents near Schuylkill, for the
use of the Poor.
September 19.
Cadi sixty-one dollars, 77 cents, nineteen
hundred two quarters fourteen pound rye
an-1 one hundred two quarters wheat flour.
Three cheeses, one ham and a jowl of ba
con, from the of the town of
West-Chester, EaljLßradford, Penrfbury
and Birmingham townfliips forwarded by
Mr- Phillip Price, jun. also a quantity of
linnen, ar.d other cloathing fer the Ma
rine and City alofpitaL i
Two carts loaded with potatoes, onions, ap
ples and cabbages, calleded by Mr. Ni
cholas Pickel, from Messrs. HeylVrmin
ger, Morris, Packer, Lefher, Snyder,
Weaver, Longfingtr, Wetler, Kucher,
Ulrich, Bartholomew, Henry and Mrs.
Katy.
Two l;gs of veal from Mr. JcfTc Doning
ton.
Twenty loaves bread, from an unknown per-,
son, left at the City Hall.
PETER MEIItCKEN,
Sept. 20. Chairman.
DONATIONS,
Received at, the encampment at Maftet's
place, for the life of the poor.
September 19.
From a person unknown, 20 quarts milk,fo
be coutimi:d every morning.
Mr. John Übritb, 44 pair women's
leather shoes.
Mrs. Malfby, a l®ad of cabbage.
Col Joflma Lad Howell, 45 bush
els potatoes, 2 bags rye flour, fix
fbvep, about 701b. fait pork, and a
quantity cheese and butter, collc&«!
from a number of the inhabitants of
Glouceftcr county. New Jersey.
From Keyfey & Gorgas, 200 feet of
pine hoards.
From sundry inhabitants of Burling
ton and its vicinity, ten cords of oak
wood, 13bbls. containing flour, in
diaß meal, fait meat, fuft soap, ap
ples, men's, fiioe-, &c. Also, about
50 bushels of potatoes, a bundle of
warm cloths, 20 dozes bundles of
a quantitf butter and cheese,
a variety t»f other very valua .le.arti
cles. , >
JlillL-livttCp, ~l
Jona. Robeson, J-Committc.
Isa ;c IV. Morris, J
Bitter herbs, particularly Centaury will '
be very acceptable.
Where bodies are found in a putrijied slate,
quick lime with water Jbvu'd be thrown about
them, which will iijflantly purify the eir, ar.d
shut up the deadly vapours.
«Esr*v*To*.
CITY" HOSPITAL REPORT.
roit ssprßMßi R 19.
AD MITT 1 D,
Mary Law Geo. \;e Gallon
Mi»y. Gallagher, ; Silas Steele
Silaj Steele, . A worn AH, "urllimw*L.
Jofepli Clark Nancy C?rer»rillc
his wife. J Kaac Kcrps, x
Nancy Dunn Sarah M'Miiltin
Mary Lagan Elizabeth Landruli
William Davis ' Elizabeth Cox
Patrick Marsh Jane Copafll
Henrietta Stamford Polly Seed
Philip Norman.
DIED.
John MacK John Boyd
Nicholas Mutiny Nelly Ealiy
Bridget Mowc v Jane Pointer.
Wm. Morepurt Thos. Mtnney
Hannah Mach
DISCHARiSD.
Philiip Zn'ae- Msry' Wheeler
J-jhu M Koy
Samuel Cook John D^-iman.
ELOPED—TWO- v
Interred.from city and suburbs <
City Hospital
R<maiiiinnr the Hospital iyc, of wu>'ii
65 are on the recovery.
PH I MP S. PHYSICK.
Chvillopher Darrab, Steward.'
By order of the Boprd of Managers.
WILLIAM JONES, Pr^fid«t»
Attefi—Timothy Pax son, Clerk.
SEVEN IY- rVVO new cases of the prj
vailing fever, reported by 20 Physicians, for
the last 24 hours.
C5 4 BURIALS in the City and Hof J¥ *-
tal burying grounds, for the 24 hours, end
ing lad evening at 8 o'clock—Adults, C 4.
children, 8.
1 Number of deaths at New-York on Mon
day, 45—36 of the fever.
Died yefterdav, Mr. Zephin-ah Wtlfttr*
Piinter, and Wife.
Mr. William Ruclach, huufe earpenter,
MR. PRINTER.
On reading a newspaper not a year since,
I was very much struck, with a ch'ata&cr
that was given of a certain man, of whom
it 13 laid, he was efleemed a good chriflian
by all who knew him. Ail that I will fay
of this man is, that I knew him too wellj
to fubferibe to that opinion.
TRUTHS
AT 7 ENT 10-N!
The gentlemen returned to foveas guar
dians of the poor will please to take notice
.that the Court will be held at the Alma
House on Tuesday the 25th inft. at 10
o'clock in the forenoon where they are re
quired to give their attendance. At which
time and place a meeting of the General
Board 0, Guardians is requelled. Those
memberk who'e times expire are particularly
■ untreated :o attend.
- PETER MIERCKEN.A-^/.
Alms September 17, 1798.
Relief of the Poor.
The undermentioned persons arc appoint
ed by concurrent resolutions of the boards
of managers of the Marine and City Hos
pitals and guardiam of the poor for the
pu pose of relieving such of their fellow ci
tizen* wliofe situations render it improper
for them to remove to the encampments.
John Kthr, I'eter Barker,
Heter Miereke-i, John tiulchinfon,
Alexander Steel, William Stc-vsnfon,
Thomas /Wtbetie, John James,
Edward Garrign.j, Tbontas Sa-very,
Stephen Mttxfwld, Rhea Kin?, V <
Nathan St. Smith, Pa/chat Hollingjkuortb
Daniel Doughty, John feat.
' By order of the loard < i Mauagi rt of
the Marine and City Hofpijats.
Wm. JONES, President.
■ Attest '
Timothy Psxon, Clerk.
By order of the board of Guardiant »f
the poor-
PETER MIERCKEN, Pre/,dent.
THE committee appointed by the above
resolution for the relief of such peifons,
whofie situations render it impradli'cable to
remove their families to the tents, being rea
dy to enter upon the important duties of
their appointment; inform the public,
they will meet on the 2nd. 4th. and 6th.
days of each week from 3 to 6 o'clock, at th<
Senate chamber in the Mate House, where
the indigent of the above clafi will be re
lieved, upon producing certificates from one
or more refpeflable inhabitants who conti
nue to reside in the City or Suburbs; that
theit families are in such a situation as to
render it improper to remove them to the
tents.
The Committee being sensible that no en
deavours will be lacking in the committees
who fnperintend the encampments, to make
tlve temporary refidcnce of the poor as inha
bitants who remove to them as comfortable
as poflible; and believing that the removal
of them from the may, under Provi
deuce, be the means of flopping the prevail
ing disorder ; are desirous an much at pofli
ble to encourage it; and therefore molt ear
'qellly request, their fellow citizens, to re
commend none to them, but such families,
who from fickn'fs or other important confi
deralions, are improper o'jedU to receive
the bublic benevolence at the encampments*
Ed. G.aRRIGUES, President.
Peter Barker, Secretary.
Philadelphia, <jth mo. 19tb, 1798.
[ VqIvMR XJV.yr L ~ our} t
PObl'-OFtiCE.
Philadelphia, September Isth, 1798- v ,
LE TTERS for "the British Packet for t ,
Falmouth wifi be received at this Office un- .
til TuefdaV, 2d Oftoberj at 12 o'clock, i
koon. ft
N. B. The inland potlage to New-Yort.
roust be paid. j
* % * WZ .ire inforOied that Boxes for
the daily conveyance of letters from Phila
delphia, addiefled for the Banki of Penn
sylvania ot North America, arc lodged at
the Post Office in the City, for the accom
nwda'Jon of those whjftchoofe to avail thent
telves *o£ that mode of conveyance.
fikt a Meeting of a Refpe&able Number of
the Inhabitants of Chester County, held
at the Centre House in Weft Bradfotd
Township, for the purpefe of nominating
a suitable Person f>r Reprefentativc in
Congreis, and also a suitable Person for
State Senator,
The following Persons were
ed to their fellow-citizeus for the following
offices.
RICHARD THOMAS. Efquirc
Reprefeiitative in Conprefs for the Dif
tridl cotapofed of the counties of Chester
and Delaware.
IrfEf-uVtS WHF.LEN, Ejguire
State Senator, for the Diftrift composed
of the counties of Chester, Montgomery,
and Bucks.
RefolveJ, that the Proceedings of tkis
Meeting be" publiihed in the public news
papers.
Signed by Order of the Meeting,
ISAAC WAYNE,'Chairman.
Josfph liiMPHU-1., Z>eery. t
September Jth.
O THE Committee are happy in hav
ing it in their power to inform those citi
zens who are not in a situation to provide
for themselves and are d-;firous to remove
from the city or liberties, that they are now
pre pared to receive from 6 to 700 persons at
the Encapment on- Mailer's Place,, in the
Northern Liberties where such persons will
be furnifhed with comfortable apartments
and i eci-ffary provisions during the present
calamity.
HEALTH-OFFICE,
11 th September, 1798.
yELtow-.ciTiziNs,
OUR address of the iftinft was m
tendid to prefect to yo,ur view the deplora
ble state of our city.* and to excite into ac
tive exertion the philai thrcpy and benevo
lence so eminently chara&eriftic of the cm
' xens of Pennfylvanfa. The fame generous
sentiments which you have difplaytdhas in
fluenced the worthy ar.d benevolertt citizens
of Bak rnore ; who always alive to the feel
ings of humanity, have, it app ars bythe
public papers, agreed to a fubfeription for
the relief of our <jillreiTed fellow citizens.
We return them all the gratitude and ref
pe& to which dispositions so amiable are
entitled but it becomes our duty public
jy to fta'e that a fund has been provided for
the purpose, upon the principal.of a loan
in anticipation of the liberality and justice
of our Legsflature, which precludes the
necessity of donations in money from the
humane citizens of our filter states.—Con
tributions of provisions from our fellow-ci
tizens in the country, as well in New Jersey
as in our own State, have been forwarded
for the use of the distressed, with a liberali
ty which docS honor to the donors.
We flatter ourselves that similar donations
will be continued by those generous indivi
duals, who are contiguous to. the city, and
can with convenience spare a part of their
produce for the relief of fufferng humanity.
By order of the Board of Managers.
Wm. JONES, President.
Attest '
Timothy Paxson, Clerk.
New Encampment..
The Committee who superintend the en
campment at Matter's place near the Mill
Pond on the Gerfnantown Road, about
two miles from the city, refpeftfully inform
their countr* friends that they stand in need
of an immediate supply of vegetables and
straw forth; use of those diltrefied citizens
who are flying from the present calamity.
The committee flatter themselves that the
iame liberality will be found in the farmer,
and others, to supply this Encampment, as
hasbeen tot hat on the Cemmon s nearSchuyl
- kill, Isoth having the fame laudable objeiSf
jn view.
John Infleep 1 ,
Jon. Robefon |- committee.
'ifacu IV. Morris. J
Camp, Matters' Place,
September 10, '9B.
Agreeable .to notification in several of the
ntwfpapers of the City of Philadelphia, fe
auefting a meeting of the merchants, trad
ers, mechanics and other citizens, at the
Union School House in Qermantown, on
Wednesday 29th Angult. at 4 o'clock P.
M. in order to fix ou a suitable charafeter to
fee offered at the ensuing eleftion to repre
sent the City of Philadelphia in Coogrefs,
in thevacancy occasioned by the deccafe of
Tohn Swan wick, Esq. and also in the next
Congvefs—A senator, to represent m the
fcate senate, the city of Philadelphia and
County of Delaware—and fix persons tore
arefent the city in the house of affemhly.—
A namerotia and rcfpe£lable body of the
freemen of 'be city attenoed. The busi
ness of the meeting being opened, a letter
from captain Joseph Anthony, addressed to
the chairman of the meeting was read, ex.
■reffing a decided opinion on the neccffity
of uniting the interelt of the friends of the
conititution and- government in the choice
ef their reprefentativc,that he conceived Mi"
Robert Wain well qualified, for a in
Congress, and soliciting his- fellow citiiens
that his name may aot be offered m cempe-
t ieh with that ger.tleraatl, tvh» has his ful- P
concurrence aid approbation. ,
ROBER.T W'ALN, - If
V r was norn i Qate d and unam'moufly carried as
aC ff C the Candidate fcSrCong ess.
Office ub- | FR ANCIS GURNEY,
; o clock, . as g { . nator f or (j ic dill r ii£k cornpofed of
.the Gity and GoOnty of Philadelphia and '
New-Yo.h. County of Delaware; and as members to re- 0
prtfent the City in afrfmbly— d
_ _ Jacob Hiltzheimer, tl
Boxes for. Lawrence Seckel, *
0 m Ph.la- MJrfw B , j y
,of Penn- Will',am Hati\ printtr. _ ' »
lodged at Samud WrFiJk'crZ
he accora John CkmentStoiker. ''
avail theixl- The queltion being put, will this meeting a
e " support the foregoing ticket ? it was unani- t
. T , r moufly agreed to, and it was ajfe recom- d
" m W mended to the freemen of the City of Phi- j,
< i ladelphia attached to the federal government "
™ for their fopport, and to those of the Coan- ! (
nominating pj,;i ac i c |pj,; a an( j County Q f Delaware ,
e " ta ' lic ' n in support of the Senator. I
er on 01 Ordered, that the minateyof the meeting', c
, signed by the chairman a.id secretary, be '
.commen publilhtd in the njewfpapers of the City, for 1
eol owing general information of the electors. si
LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH, ]
jr' the Dif- _ „ „ Chairman. :
of Chester Daniel Smith-, i
Germantovun, ~2.y1b Augujl, 1798. 1
\i'x re l
t composed Gcrmantown, - t
>ntgomery, Mr. Fenno, ,
Please to pub'iilh the following tickets ,
igs of this for Seleit and CommonCpuncils, at the ap- \
iblic news- preaching eleftion, and oblige one of ysur i
fellow.citizens. '
etin?, SELECT COUNCIL.
bairman. Godfrey Haga Thomas Willing, jun.
Seer j. Daniel Smi h Joseph. Magoffin.
COMMON COUNCIL.
Lawrence Herbert
ipy in hav- Henry Drinker", jun.
those citi- Gideon H. Wells
to provide Cafpet'W. Morri*
to remove Thomas P. Cope
ey are now George Pennock
persons at Thomas Parker
ice,, in the Michael Kepple
lerfons will Joseph Hopkinfon
apartments Kearney Wharton
:hc present Conrad Gerhard
George Fox 1
John Rugaa
, Edward Randolph
, 1798- Malcolm M'Dotinald
Joseph North (Union-street)
ft. was in- Levi Hollmgfworth
le deplora- George Wilting
ite into ac- Edward Pennii gton
ndbenevo- Jonathan Jones,
f the citi- Aj.ms-House,
ic generous gentlemen,
,ytd has jn- pi eafe
to take notice, that you are re
rit citizens turnet j to serve as Guardians of the Poor
to the feel- f or the ensuing twelve months, you- are
' ars by the therefore requested to attend at the City
:ription for £[ a n on t jje twenty fifth of September next,
citizens. at 10 o'clock in the forenoon,
ide arid res- gy order of the Board,
amiable are JACOB LAWERSWYLER.
uty public- Secretary, pro tcm.
rovided for j ames M'Crea, ~l
il of a loan joseph r. Tatem, / To succeed
andjuftice J ame3t Glentworth, f Nalbro Frazier.
■eludes the Samuel Price, J
' from the William IVefton, "1
tes. Con- B en j am i n Price, / To succeed
r fellow-ci- Samuel Rhoads, f Jeremiah Boon.
Mew Jersey Isaac t. Hopper, J
1 forwarded Bazel Wood, 1 t r
h.libcli- M"n»cl EfOM. J S ,»di£pSl.
,r ** . James King, j
r donations p eler ICeyler, . n*' r .
rous indivi- phiHp j Dehaas> t JV, fu " ced
e city, and Soh „ S ervofs, yl° 3re
rt of their Char i eß Swi f t>
> humanity. William Alexander, / To succeed
Managers. Nicholas Pickcl, f Pft'er Miercken.
'resident. Charles Baftios, j
/ William Holdernefs,"J
Jamss Stokes, ( To/ucceed
Richard Bailey, f Joseph Anthony,
it.- John Whitefides, J
John Hood,
end the en- Jacob Gribble, f To succeed
ar the Mill Joseph Huddle, jun. f Alexander Steel,
jad, aboHt Joseph Conrad, )
"ully inform John Davis,
and in need Joseph Simmons, f To fuccecd
;etables and Charles Pleafaats, C William Beaven.
fed citizens David Seckel, J
it calamity. Samuel Getliff,
es that the John Waddington, / To succeed
:he farmer, William Read, George Plumfted.
rmpment, as William Cramond, j
learSchuyl- Daniel Boehm, S w.v
able object Andrew Pettit, f To succeed
Joseph Walker, I Jacob Lawerfwyler.
Jacob Edenborn, J
)M MITTEE. « .{ 1 • •
c 3* A young Man in this city,
capbleof keeping books & accounts in different lan
guages, would engage to any writing bafinefs, ci
ther by the day x>r week, during the prevailing
. f 1 fickneis. Good recommendationse«n be produced.
;verai or the A line direAedto N. G. and left in Archftreet,
idelphia, between Ninth and Tewih flpets, ,at No.
bants, trad- immediately be P.ttertded to. ' »ept I 4»
ens, at the FLOUR FOR SALE
antown, on £y the Subfcnbtrt,
[. o'clock P. Deliverable at any of the ports oh the Pela.
charadter to ware—who have alio on hand at rhejr> ftotes, a
)0 to repre- quantity of Bar Iron, Pont and Corn —'Letters by
i Conprefs the post will be attended to.
le acccafe of Levi Hollingswortb Iff Son.
in the next augqft 18. <it^
e . fe " t , tb ® FOR SALE,
ldelphia and . FARM on the road leading to State Island,
lerfons to re- within four and ?n naJtmiJe» of Philadelphia,
affemhly.— containing 45acres in the highest lUte of cultivation
i,„j„ „f .v., — 3 , jeret of which is nseadbw, the remainder up-
T'U u C land. There areon the premi(is, a new frame House
Ihe bull- jj aro> w ;th an eji.cHlehi fcllMien garden, contain
ied, a letter ing a great number of trie Trees. —Immediate poffef
addrefied to fion will be given.
For terms apply to
", s rc ' * Thomas W. Francis,
the necerhty No. gßSbuth Third flreet;
ieiids of the •Rijuly
i the choice - PETER BLIGHT
Micetved Mr HAS pis Counting House to his House
ir a f&at in in the jc ort hern Liberties neat Nice I'own, Gcr
:llow citiiens road,
ed in compe- asgull ai.
PENNSTLFANI ri, jf*
•j
In the Kamt and bythc Aijt&frit y or the Com
monwealth of Prnnfylvania,
Bv THOMAS MIFFLIN,
Qovernsr of the sard Commonwealth,
A PROCLAMATION.
WHEREAS, it has been dated to me by.
the PrtSident and Directors of the Bar.k
of Peßrifylyania, That on the right of Satur- |
day the firft instant, the House now occupied by
the said Bank, c«imnonty called Carpenttrs
Mall, was burglirioufly entered bylorfie villain,
or villains unknown, and thcre'rara a coafider- f
able number of Bank Notes of various defvrip- f
tions and denomination wer-ivJlolen ind carried 5
away: to tub inten r that the perpetrator, j
or perpetrator# of so great a cr'un*, and <•»* t
. acceffariesthefetih, jrtit be (JifWvWed snd brought i
to. condign,piiniftiftcnt, I'havs defined it expe
dient tS tilae this Proclamation, Kuttßv offer
ing and promoting £ reward of ON'£ TUOV
SANE) DOLLARS to any pcrl'on, or persons,
who (hall difcover-t'tij perpLtrator, or perpetra
tors of the said crime, or any of them, or any
accefiary thereto, before or after the fa.3, t.> be
paid OYI the coYiviftion of all or any of theofifen- '
der»: AND I do hereby further offer aa l pro
mile A FREE AND ENTIRE PARDON
unto any one of the perpetrators, or accefiaties
aforefaid of the aornnailjion of t ie laid crime,
who (hall make a full and fatiiiafVory disclosure
of all the ctrcumftances relative rf> the contriving
and aceomplilhing the fame, and of the names
and places of abode of his or ber afiociates, so
that ftich associates may be apprehended and
conv'uled: AND all t>ie Judges, Justices, She- ]
riffs, Constables, and other Public .Officers of ;
this Commonwealth (according to the duties »f |
their refpe&ive llationS) are hereby required and
enjoined to *fe all lawful means to deteit and
bring to justice each and every person concerned
in C9ntriving, or perpetrating the crime afore
faid,-
GIVEN under my hand and the Great
S.-al of the State,at Sermantown, the
(L,i S.) third day of September, in the year of
our Lord, one thousand seven hundred
and ninety-eight, and of the Common
wealth tlv twenty-third.
THOMAS MIFFLIN.
Ey the Governor:
A.J Dallas.
Secretary of tbe CommonivcaJtb.
Pursuant to the Aft sf Congress, pas
sed on the ninth day of July, 1798, entitled
" An A<£> to provide for the valuation of lands
and dwelling ho lifts ard the enumeration of
Hives within the United States," —NOTICE
is hereby given, that the firft meeting of the
Commiflioners under the said fer the (late
of Pennsylvania, will be held Monday, the
twenty second day of October rHstf, at the bo
, rough of Reading, in the said state".
C. READ,
Commissioner firft named.
Rending, Sept 8, 1798.
To the Creditors sf John Dickson,
of Milton t in the County of Northumbet land,
and State of Pennsylvania.
Gentlemen,
TAKE NOTICE, that I have applied to the
®oud* of Common Picas in and for the County of
Northumberland for the benefit of the several
laws made for the relief of Insolvent Debtors, and
that the court have appointed the lad Monday in
O&ober next to hear me and my creditors at the
said Court in the town of Suabury, at which time
and place you are desired to attend.
Miiton, 4th Sept. JOHN DICKS 3N.
LANDING,
At South Street wharf, the cargo of the (hip Con
necticut, from Batavia—
About 300 tons of Java Coffee,
of the growth of 1794 and 1795
§0 tons of Java Sugar,
In cunniflers—for sale by*
FETER SLIGHT,
WHO ALSO «JF,E»S FOR SALE,
150 hhds. choice Jamaica Sugars
Jamaica rum in hhds
Brandy Ift and 4th proof in pipes, hhds.
and quarter calks
Madeira in pipes <-*
Old Batavia Arrack
july 1 <5
NOTICE. ~
Bank of North America,
Augufl 28th, 1798.
THOSE Perf»ns who have N»tes 0: Bills to pay
at this Bank are informed,
That regular Notices will be put under a feakd
cover directed to the refpe'ftive payer and lodged
in the Pott-Office evsry Monday until the ruurn
of the citizens.
RICHARD WELLS, Cq//,k ■.
au£. 29 dtl
COLLECTOR'S OFFICE,
Philadelphia, Anguft 30, 1798.
THE bufintf- of the Custom Heufe will from
tnis day be tranfa&ed at Chester, during the con
tinuance of the fever which n«w prevails in this
city ; and in canTequtnce thereof, the m rchants
are hereby notified, that payment of all bonds for
duties to the United States, payable at this office*
may be made either at the Cultom House in Chef-;
ter, or at the Bank of the United States.
•Collf&or's Office, >
Philadelphia, Aug. 30. J
This Day is PuMifhed,
•.AND FOR SALE BY J.I EM NO, t ig,CH ES N U T-S - " R lET
an address
To the People os-Maryland,
ON the origin, progress and preicat (late of
French aggreilion, with a (ketch of the infamous
attempts to degrade the Government of the United
' States, and some reflections on the late proceedings
in Congress-; written the lad of April in the pre
sent year, by a Member of the House of Reprefen
■ tatives. $ iuneii
The Office of the Committee,
1 Appointed to fuperintead th« building of the
Frigate to bo Uaned to the United States, is remo
ved to No. 11l Spruce street—os which those gen
tlemen who have not already came forward with
their fubferiptions will please so takenotice.
ROBERT RITCHIE, Sec'ry.
* august 7 $
To be Said,
An elegant and convenient House,
la Qbefnut Jlreet, next door to tie Bttni of North Ameiricj.
THE l.st is thirty by one hunored and fevrnty
eight. The House has been thoroughly repaired
I within a few moutbs. Apply to the Winter.
' august 8 § „
W. Yoqng,
c MOOKS* LLItR & *.T rrOVER,
j." TNFORMS his f.'iends and wholesale customers
A in the country, who find it dilngrvaable to en
ter the city during the prefetit Fever, That orders
will be received, and executed with ull possible dil
patch, at the
WHITE-HALL PRINTING OFFICE 1 ,
■ in thf white building, above the Mile ctor.c, os
; the Ridge-Road
fe ' *„* Hiscufioniers i>i the ci'y are also informed
r- , that the Store in the City will be oprn, every day,
Sunday excepted, from Nine untifOneof the eloik.
I auguftijr diw
c
I % s.r
FOR SALE, j
The "Cargo J r
Benjamin McK'teith**ifteT, from |
C»NSISTIN<C or ■ w
945 Fenegxs of Cocoa I J
4003 lb. of Flora indigent 1
Ho Bates «f Cottbn
4 Package* of Goat-Skttw
By Wdtes & Fr+u'ts.
fc. Eleve'th tlreet. g
. july a: - dtf g
Notice is hereby gi/en, • i
THAT application willKe-ra-idcto theTreafit- .
ry of the Ignite j States, for tjvc renewal of the t ,
following Certifloates of Si* Pet Cent Funded ,
StOcV, (landing ill the name M" Carhonett, of
Ond On, the said Certifie'iiU»fci»Ttig been lod\on
boajd the Swallow Packet) Captain K.iJd. fro".
' Falmouth to New-York
No. 3072 I Cert.. , for 2QQO dolls. ~i r
2964 I do. ~JOOd > j
10,577 1 *d«. 3000 J_
Willing! Ft afrit-
Philadelphia, august 3°- < -'"^' vv
FOR SALE,
BY TFfS SUBSSRtBIRt, NO. E L EVE NfH-ST R * »T,
iS Bags Freih Cloves. <
Witling j (S? Francis i . '
Art 1
June 2Q. Ocr
WILLIAM M'LAWS,
SADLER HARNESS MAKER,
HAS Removed to the Corner of Chefnut
and Twelftfi-llreeti, on the (commons, '
wbere'be will reeeiv* and execute of
his friends and wholesale cuftoraers, with usual '
attestin/i & expedition darijig the prevalence of 1
the present Epidemic, wheie it has not made it* '
appearance this season, nor d»rlag any of the 1
years pad. 1
aatuft is .
Madras and Vcaitapaufem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries,
•f the newest and mod approved patterns,entitled
to tha drawback, ju(l received,.
AN9 I0«L (ALE BV
Alex. jf. filler & Co.
'N0.%4, Sopth Front (lre«t.
may 18. 1'" r e i
Doftor GOURDES,""
A 7 e, 28, Pirn ;
Late SURGEON in the aimiesof St.Doaiingo
OFFERS bis services to the inhabitants of Phi
ladetpbia in tjie line of hs proleffion. He
flatters binifelf that his long fuccefsfnl experienoe
in the Weft-India, fevers,iwiltprocure kim the con
fidence of the citizens of this city ; paatiaularly
those attacked by the prefect Epidemic,
soil.^t
gr The Subscribers have remov
ed for the present from Penn-flreet to Eleventh
ftreet, between Filbert and High-streets.
Wil/irig s & Francis.
awp»ft 0 lw
Arrived in the Jhtp Pennsylvania, Gapt. Wt L
liamson, from Hamburgh, now lying at
Chejler.
A Number of.GERMAN SERVANTS, men,
w»men, boys atid girls, amongst whom are
Gunfmitbs, Carpenters, Tamers, Taylors, Black
fmjths. Gardeners, Masons, Coachmen,Huntfmea,
&c. &c. whole time of servitude is to be difpedid
of on board the Ship, by
GURNET® SMITH.
avguft 28. .
Bengal Goods,
CONSISTING GF
BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS, -
Chintz Coffas Maharazgungy
Chintz Guzzisas Tookereys
Eliabad Baftas Wrought Muilins
Long Drawers
Coarse Sugars in bags, fit lair the European markets
ALSO,
Carolina Indigo
Coffee in hogsheads
A few pipes of very olid and very ckoic* Madeira
WINF.
For Sale, on reasonable terms, by
John Craig,
Ne. 11, Dock-ltreet.
July 14 mwstf
,FOR by ~
John Miller, Jun.
NO. 8, CUES NUT STREET,
100 hogsheads RUM,
Of high proof and fine flavour
, ja'r T 9 §
■ Bank of Pennsylvania.
THE Bank of Penflfylcania is removed to Ger
mantown, —where the bufißefs will bo tranfa&ed
to-morrow, in the Union School House.,
JONATHAN SMITH, Calhicr.
September 4 , ' 10 4' ' • §
-• N Q c
Bank of the United States,
' /September 4, 1798. _
THE Public are informed that after the 9th inft
_ this Bank will be opened at 9 o'clock in the morn
.< ing, and so- remain until KOOII.
GwSIMPSON, Calhier.
September 4. , >. dtf
. NOTICE,
Bank of the United States,
Aiigu/l 1798.
""TpHCfSE persons who h*v? or Bills to
X~ pay at this Bank, are informed,
That regular Notices Will be put under a seal
. Ed cover diret9ed to the re-Tpedive payer and
[ lodged in the Port Office every Monday until
s the return of the CitUeps.
G. SIMPSON, cejhier.
august -18 , jawtf
Hennfylva«i,a Hospital,
,1 9 mo. f, 17|8.
: ~\TO p:rfna with an ihftflious-difeafe, can be
iN admitted into jhis
- neftly recommended to tbc citizens,' not to fend
1 or ! ring any such patiet?t to the gate, who is ill
with the prevailing fevor. -Scvuril persons having
been sent here improperly, is the reason of giving
this caution. , ,
By °rd«- of the ") FRANC[S HIOGINS, Steto'J.
Sitting Managers,)
NOW LAUDING,
1 From on board the brig Amiable Matilda, from
i Bourdeaui, and for f*le by the fublcnber,
88 cafksCLAREI'
* Jl do. do. of a (bperior quality
a trunks green PARASOLS.
Thomas Murgatroyd,
if, Walnut-Ilreet.
j VllO H4s ONiHAtfD,
Whit« Wine in half CalSs "J
s Sweet Oil of a superior quality, in I
boxes and bafltets
. Lunelle "J I Ent'hlsd" to
fcauterne / im , • Drawback,
s Irilh Market > in Cases I
Macarty and 1 |
dj' Medic J J
Rota Wine in hhds.
L Pimento in bags.
snay 19. e»tf
S \ ' ; - *
sVfc % v\
For Sale*
THF. intending to dielins the
DRUG BUSINESS, offars For Sale, tko
whole S:ock of
Drugs and Med'oines, Instruments, &CJ
Ihaflpp is elegant, commodious, ud fuffici
ently known for the extenuye buiineCs don* in the
wholcfale and retaifline ; the inflation equal to
ai\y it the city, being at the cjincr of Walnut and
Second ftrcets. The whole, or any part of the
Stock, will be fold, as will bed suit the pur chafer.
Tha terns may be known, by applying to
» *»JAMBS MOORE, JUK.
- Who has For Sale, *
V'NNI cajcnlated for t¥£river trade—
The Peggy, about 30 tons burthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably
flout, of an easy draught of water, rigging in
good order.
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
wcil, and in complete order for the lumber bufisefs.
gj" All persons indebted to the late firm of
Gilc/ttnuait Sa/Jtvin, tV. B- Gotdlbwait, (roh/-
tfjiaait 53" Afwrr, or the fubferiher, are earntftly
rcqtilefted to make speedy payment to
JAMES-MOORE, jvn.
*»i?»sc 3 S .
Ship £s* Insurance Broker,
r I 'HE SuMcriber, encouraged by the advice
JL of hit friends, offers his service to the pub
lic as a Ship and Insurance Broker. H» pre
pofes to buy and fell veflels and every thing re
lating thereto—afiill mailers of veflels and others
in entering and clearing at the Cuttom House,
procuring and (hipping freight, fettling Insur
ance and all other mercantile accounts, and have
en hand the necetf'ary Blanks and Stamps.
Papers in foreign languages translated, and
information given in gerieraUrnercantile matter#
—From a knowledge gained by long experience
of every ttranch of business hd hopes to be tifc
ful to those who please to favor him wi li tha if
commands. ■ SAMUEL EMEKT.
Philadelphi», august 24th, 1798. $
City Comtniffioners' Office,
Awgost 30, 1798.
IN purfusncc of an ordinance of the Sele.fl and
Common Councils, puffed t he zad day of May,
1798,
Proposals in writing will be received by the City
Comii.ifiioners for one month from the firll of Sep
tember next, for letting to rent oh one
year, to comment* the firft day of Januajy next,
the following public property of the city
The wharf and landing on Viae street,
Also on Saffafras,
Mulberry,
And High ftrcets.
Chefnutand Walnut ftrsets, Drawbridge, with
the Scale and FICI houles, Spruce, Pin# and Cedar
llreets.
The Cellar under the City Hall.
The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill,
with tha lots contiguous thereto (except so muct*
thereof as {hall be occupied by any buildings erec
ted for the ulc of the Collector of the Tolls, or be
■ect-flary for the toll gates.)
A Hated meeting of the City Commiflioners will
be held at the City Hall every Tuesday morning st
ten o'eki.k, during the ptefent epidemic. coup ■
James C. & Sami; W. Fijher,
No; 13 Arch-Strixt,
Have jor Sale
soo Calks bell refined Salt Petre
Bed London Window Glass from toby 8 t*
l» by 10
Ditto Glass Ware in Calks aflbrted canfifling
of pint- and half-pint Tumblers, Wine
GlafTes, Goblets, &c.
ALSO,
A few Bales of Red, White and Yellow Flan*
, nels, Baizes and Kendall Cottons.
June if 3awtt
To be Scld, at private Sale,
, J* Plantation and Tr aft of Land
CONTAINING 145 acres, lituate in White*
marth township, of Mer.tgoiS
ery, about 15 miles franj Philadelphia, and on
the public roa l leading from Plymouth by the
Broad-Ax tavern toward Horfham, and about
one quarter of a mile from said tavern, alto
about the fame dlftance from the Skippafk road
and about the Time dil*in<;e from the late refi.
dence of James Morris esq. deceased. It is
bounded by lands of Anthony Morris esq. Ja
cob Reiff and Detweiler. About ten acres arc
good watered meadow, about 15 or 20 are ui «
Kl<;r aad about 35 acres are well timberec".
The buildings on the above farm conlift of a
two-Uory (lone dwelling-house, a Urge fto»e
. barn and flone spring-house. There is also ac
j the premises a young orchard of about 150 at-,
pie trees.
This farm has great advantages et* water, 39
ther* is an excellent never-fjHfng stream palling
by the house and barn, in such a manner as tr
fiipply the fame as well as every field with a fu;»
; ficient qnaiitity. ,
The spring over which the spring-house 1*
built, is excellent water, and is'alfo very near
and convenient to the dwelling-house.
The situation of this place is healthy an-1 in a
good neighborhood, and is near to several dil
ferept places of worship, and within the dilj
tance of half a mile from two grift and saw
mills, zlfo near lime-kilni.
This farm will he fold together or divided in
to two parts, as may luit the purchases". Al'fo
1 a two-story rtdne'Tioufe with a barn and carriasrs
house and lot of land firaite on Cheliiut-hill. It
■ is a very high and healthy situation, and com-
I mawls a very extensive and beautiful prolpefl—
I PolTefliou of part of the house may be hid
mediately.
For further particulars apply to Henry Pratt,
No 94 North Watrr-ftreet Philadelphia, or tc.
CHRISTOPHER IIETDRIQK,
r ~, °" Chesnut-HM.
: Chefnut-hill, angult 14th, r 79 s, aa«tf'
j ADVERTISE MENT.
WHEREAS Jamks CuHMixa Co. late of
the city ot Philadelphia, nwrrhants, hayc
afligncd over all their efTeS*, real, personal and
nnxed, to the lubferibers, for the benefit of all
• their creditors, who I 1 all fubferibe the said aflign
• ment within fix months from the date hereof-
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, to all perforin
1 who arc indebted to the laid eflate, that they are
required to make payment of their res
pective account., to theAffignee., at the,r office.
NO;6z, Do c k street, in faiUlre whereof adjon,
will be in..,t»tedfor the recovery of f.ch debts »
are not Jifcharged accordingly.
John Trtrvis, "J
John IVacU'mgton, I ,
James Taylor, j
Cornelius ■ Comegys J
' mwftiD
TO BE SOLD,
'"P'HE time of an indented Dutch Scrvast BOY
J. who Jia. ten years to serve. He ha, had the
ftuall pox and measles, i« a<3ive, hearty and drone,
and fit for bouse work in town or country. For
I further information, enquire of the printer,
augwt 4 ' j