ee tf>c and Philadelphia Dally Advertiser.'
By John Fen no, N°- iio Obefmii Street.
tfvMßEn 168 ij PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY EVENING, J AMI ART 29, 1795. [Fcit/jw* XIII.
'"" f " ' " ; : ■ ' ' * ' ■ ■ ■ ■ ■
for the cure of
CQ-VGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, CON
SUMPTIONS,
And all disorders of the Breafl and Lungs,
Church's Cough Drops
1» « medicine unequalled by any other mifcc world.
CIITIEICiTI.
" I hereby certify, that I hay? been cured of a
most ievore Ctuph, Colu, azrl violent pairi iu my
TKiX, fay uking only ?. few dole 3 of Dr. ChwrcWs
Cough r>rojH. CHAfeUES BhVAWS,"
Sail Maker, Spruceftreet wharf, Philadelphia.
From a London Paper.
To Dr. CJHURGH.
?JR,
Having been recently rsftored from <he brink of
Aegrave, by your inva'sabic medic'-'}*, 1 think it
my dirty to tnske this public acknowledgment of
therms, for the fit of others afflicted with a
similar complaint. 1 had been afflicted with a moll 2
dreadful althma for about twenty-three years. I
never for yearn got any;,reft, my cough was fa
troublti'oire in the night; and used to discharge aa It
jimoll incredible quantity of glutinous matter 0
jnrpm my lungs ; and my breath was so exceeding g
ihert that I could not walk aerofs my room. Pr»- tc
v;!'cfltiajiy hearing of your Cough Drops, I too, >t
them ; and, through taking yy-m alone, 1. am now tl
blelTed be Godl restored so perfect health. My a:
cafe is well known to the members o* the ISbenc- a:
tvr Chapel, in Lincoln's-Inn-Fkld, of which lam w
alio a member ; a;id any of' them will gU; lly fa
tiasy aay inquiry concerning the truth of What I
fry. I am, sir, yonr grateful fervaiit, '
NATHAMiL I.ANGWOIi.THY, ,
No. 8, Smith's-cdurt, G.-sat Win^iill-ftreet,
Hay-market. ~
WjjKief*, r;
■N. Lamcwortht, jun.No.l4o,
Pultiiey-ftrtet, Go!ctea-f<]liar». ' C
CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS . _ 2
Are prepared and foTTfonly) by"thelnveneor nnd B
/ale rropjietor, Dr. James Churrh, at bis Medi
cine Store, No. 1 South Third-llreet, next the Mar
ket, Philadelphia; and by appaSft ment, at New-
Yqrk, by MelTrs. Staples and Co. 169 Pearl-street, f .
and Miss Wedman, iu Wijliam-ftreet.
■Dr. Church may be eocfuked every day, at hit r
office, 158 South Front-street, Philada'phia.
January 9.
Philadelphia &c Lancaster Turn- f ]
pike Company. ti
________ w
January 4, 1798.
At a meeting of the President and Managers,
this day, a dividend of 5 dollars per share was ra
declaredfor the tajl half year, which <wi!l be by
them retained, far the payment of the debts of ~
the Company, agreeable toa resolution tftbe Stock- ..
holders the nth June la/f. ~
TENCH FRANCIS, Treasurer th
OftbePhilaijelphia& LancaflerTurnpikeCom'py. th
January % m&wtiv ar
House and Lots, in Bordentown. b , c
TO BE SOLD, a handsome two story House. C
"with the Lot on which it is erected, situated *
about the middle of the beautiful and healthy «
Village of BordemoTv,,. The house is forty two r j
feet front, and in neat Orflei . — e (]
on* arert. ; s one 3*tn<;red feet on the main j t .
ilreet, and extenOs wTth the fame breadth tobaek m '
llreet. Also, a Urge Lot, containing nearly fcur
acres, fepamtid fc6m the former by hack firect. m
One third only of the purchase money will be re- )n
quired upon executing a deed, and for the re- t(J
liiainder, such credit will be given as the purchase tn
er may chufe. This property will be fold free «- D .
all incumbrances, and an indisputable title giveaf J r
For farther particulars enquire either of Dr. j' e .
"William Burnes, refitiing in Bordentown, near. c j |
the premises, who will shew the fame, or of ,
PETER THOMSON, " n
Conveyanoer, no. 144, Market-street. n ;
December a. ,I»wtf te ,
Ran away the 25th of Decern- F
ber, 1797, Man, about 5 feet 5 or 6 inch
es high, of a yellow complexion ; wlaen spoke to
afid called by his name he has a quick sharp look
out o£ his ejres and (hews the white of them very
much; has takenall his eloathes with him, which
are, a new kersey great coat, a grey broad cloth "
close bodied coat, a ftiiped vest, nankeen 011
br'efiches, silk (lockings and ruffled (hirts, and a fa
number of other eloaths* Th« said Negro under- pr
iiaads farming, and i& a pood (hoemaker and car- nt
pinter ; he can read and write tolerably well—lt
is likely he may forge a pass. Whoever takes up
laid negro and secures him, To that I get him, flaall „
have Thirty Dollars reward, paid by the fubferiber, „
Susannah MEDrokD, liviDg in Still Pond, Mary- _
la.nd, Keut coonty. " r
N. B. The above Negro is 19 years old.
January %. 6t w
To ~-i
AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain- OT
ing 6 acresj, and 40 perches, with a neat two tl(
flory brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple m
Orchard, See. fifeuate on the Iriih trad lane, in the P r
town(hip of Moyamenfing, about one mile from f°
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will, pr
be made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for tafle and
ilcgance, Itand unrivalled.
December I. dtf .
The Subscriber intends to make lle
application for the renewal of a Certificate ofa Share g t
in the Bankof the United States, Oandingin the name w .
-pf A. B. N0.3004, dated July n, 1797, the fame r 0
(having been loft. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dep. I. Mw
Sale by the Subscribers, p; 1
Prime Rice in whole and Half tierces
Bout deaux Brandy
Tentrifji Wine ,
Molajes f°
-Georgia and Carolina Indigo 'A
Ravens Duck and one hogshead of pant te
brushes.
N. Cs* y. Frazer.
A'o. Sontb Front Street.
Nov. j. dim 0
~ FOR SALE,
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. 55, the corn.r of Chefnut and Front streets, ■' <
A large quantity of Clocks and J
Watches. Also, a general alfbrtment of Tools,
Elks and Materials, coififtinj of Clock Move
meats, eight day and thirty hour fcrafs pioiens ,
aud work ; Bells, clock and watch Dials, ,
iipiings, Hands, Glasses, Puiiice Stone, Emery, xt
Kott«u Stone, Cat Gut; bench, stand and tail
Vices; Turns, Pliers, Chains, Seals, Keys, &c. &c. J
**'* Apprentifcs Wanted. I
wvembcr 3. f&tutf J
mn SAL?,
By JOHN MILLER, juk. bf Co.
No. B, Ch«i>ut-ftreet,
One hunared and eighty bales
BENGAL GOODS,
| ; Amongfi which are,
Ourrahs Mamoodiss
Bj.tas Straus
. , Gusi nshs Taurta Celiacs
s * Etnertiw
Blue Cioths Calicoes
Palampoors Romalt clucfs
Amongtl them are a great proportion ot the
nunufailurcß of Patna. -
December i. §
Recently Pubiijhetf,
f Au l iuft imported fro»i England, by William
c GmrjlTrii, No. 177, South Second street, and
' may had of J.Ruees,
1 A Cheap and valuable work, in two closely
Xi. printed vdlumes in Bvo. (price 3 dollars)
j Illustrations of Prophecy :
a In which are elucidated prediAions, which
r occur in Isaiah, Daniel, the writings of the Evah
r gelifts, aiul book of Revelation ; which are tho't
to foretell among oth .r great events, a revolution
in France, lavorahle to the intcreills of mankisd,
the overthrow of the papal power and of eccleli
aftical lyranuy, the downfall rtf civil despotism,
agd thefubfequent isrlioration of the llate of the
world : with
A large colkflim of Extracfs,
Interspersed t'tirough the work, and taken from
numerals commentators, p'aftfculariy fr'-mi
Joseph M«df, S-ir ffaac Newt*n,
' Vttrrnjp. ,V.r. WilU-jm i.ewth,
Dr. flcmin V,
Dr. Heaty More, 3engflias,
DK Jo3>nOweaj DauMJZ,
Dr. CVfcSener, Whitby,
Peter Jurieu, l.owmaa,
_ Breriijis.
1 Bishop Chapaltf, Bishop Hurd.
By JOSEPH LOMAS TOWERS.
Besides various other inquiries treated of in
1 this work, and numerous illustrations of prophecy ;
it contains a confidtrabie runtber of fa<2s or ob
s fcrtations on the fymkotie language of prophecy,
the authenticity, ufet, and ebfeurity of the apo
calypse, and thegenuinenefs of the Hebrew pro
. phtfti; on tht rapid corruption ef christianity ia j
the ffturth century ; on the difpertion and reft ora
tion of the Jews, the history of the falfe Mefliahs
who have appeared among them, and the
in support of the conjecture that the Afghans art
the dsfcendants of the ttn tribes; on the right of
' rsfiftance to oppreflion ;on the irruption^of thfc ;
i northern nations, and the causes of the decline and 1
r fall of the Roman empire ; on the customs of tht
Tartars, and the independence of the Arabs ; o( "
the conquefls of those nations, and thole of the
Turks ; on the usurpation of the Mamalukes, and
thi past history and prefect state of Egypt; on
■ the character and eonda& of Conftantijie, Juliini
an, Clovis, and Lewis XIV ; on the scarcity of
books in the dark agos, and the causes of the de- |
dine of literature ; en the rapid rife ef the French J
monarchy, and the C3tifes of its fall; on the in« r
consistencies rn the political characters of bishops j;
Newton 4nd Hurd: on the peculiarities o£J)r. -
TJj " '■ * ■ fTimrie benSncia!
elleits which ehriltianiry has produced i» favor ol
learning and civil liberty, ar,<i its tendency to pro
mote the eiUblifhment of equal governments.
ludepeodent of the large proportion of original
matter contained in theft- i-olumes, those who are
Interested in theftibjefl will, it ispfefumed, Wish
to peruse or confultthem, because the extracts in
troduced ia them, which are accurately cited,and
marked with inverte-d comnsas, are taken from a
•reater number of writers 0(1 the prophecies (at
least if the roman catholic commentators be ex
cluded) than are cafily accessible to any one indivi
dual even in Eurppe, or are probably to be found
in any one library, in the world. They arc fur
nilhed with indexes, aud a copious tabic of can
tcnts. Jan. 22—M»tw
fale of to be let on ground
rent, s
A valuable Lot of Ground ;
QITUATE on the north-eaftcorner of Wai-
O nut and Fifth ftieets, fronting the State
lioufe square. This lot is fifty-one feet front j
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present two small two story brick houses, antl a
number of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on 1
Water-flreet, between Mulberry and Saflafras :
streets, containing in fi-ont on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east- j
ward ninety-five fest, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches, l'hefe houses
ave the convemsncffof rpubtle alfey adjofning
on the north fwle, and are a very dtfirahle situa
tion for a merchant, flour fatSlor,or others who -
may have occasion for storage of poods. This 4
property will be fold on reafonable farms
forcalh. For further information applv to the
printer. |
July 3*- m&wtf
N Q-T I C E. i
ii
AI.L perform concerned are hereby notified,
that the frblcrib.er intends to apply for a re
newal of the undermentioned loft certificates of £
Stock in the Bankof the United States—He for*
warded them under Cover of a letter addrelTed to
John Anfley,of London, by the Ihip Bacchus, capt.
Georgp, which fceft this port in June lail for Lon
don. But that ihip having been captured on her
passage and fentto France, the aboye Utter and m
clofures have failed in their deftinatiou.
Three certificates, viz.
Nos. 26325, 26326, 26327, each jferf 1
four shares, dated January ift, 1797, and
iflued in the name of Henry Grace, of Tot- -
tenham Highcrofs, Graat Britain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
Philadelphia, rtovfmSer 8. 2aw6w
FOR SALE,
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Including Long Primer, a'aout 400 weijjht, in
good condition, and would answer the purpose of
a errantry printer as well as new.
Enquire of the Printer. no v. 30.
Jujl Publijhed, [
And to be had of MelTrs. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice, tl
Cary, and the other pricip.l Bookfciiers in the
city,price one dollar, twinty-five cents,in boards, l
New Views of the Origin of the
Trjbes and Nations of America. R
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. d. a .
Jur.c 20. *6t
I
■■ 1 1
NICKLIM b" Gat r FITI!,
At their Score m .WalMit Street—
HAVE FO,ft SALI : ,
5? hhdj. of Jaiaa/ca Hum
Vl.idcii'i Wins in pipes asd Lliu
'I - erifle do. Ip pi ...»
')!•! ?or» do. in h&dt.
Imperial Tot in "ji?"-" ci-'Yvhs. of chefls
•I#il Catrva'.s, T'o. t, to 8
•DHrmfrts, iiing'iams, and Mafltntfs, Tta^iacMs
gc'. iLiitable for the market
Nails afforto:l
c Rlack quart hotl'es
~ Queens waie in'hhds.arrf erases
- Ycilowochr>edry in calks ;
And at New-York, onboard the
4 Ihip Diana, from Liverpool, expeiled round
d as navigation u open,
Fine Liverpool Salt
y Coals
Spanifli. Brown "J
Venetian Red
h B ;' own !> PAhNTS
Pateilt white j
White lead
„ Red lead J
I Colcothar vitriol
160 tamdles Sheathing paper
, 5 Seaming tw'ne
Ship Diana,
For Sale or Charter.
A L 9 Q,
;N. B? The lale firm of Philip Nicklin £/Co.
is now Do
ITrCjLLIN 'd GU.IFFITH.
Jtnuary i. ' eodtf
For Savannah,
TO SAIL THE FIRST OPENING,
n . The Sift fei ting ship
; SWIFT PACKET,
Patrick Guibbin, Mailer,
1 NOW lying the firft wharf below
Street—has handsome ac
, commodatians for pafleiigers—For freight or paf
fege apply to the Matter on board, or to
s N. & J. Frazer,
s No. 95, South Front Street.
Who have-on hand, and for Sale,
f Prime Rice, in whole and half tiercoe, Georgia
' and Carolina ißdige, Molasses in hhd», Tenerilfe
I wine, &c. &c
i December a? jtawtf.
' Fojt Amsterdam, i
' FA T RM f ER, !
JqHN Matter; ;
WILL fail in A few days, the '
'*® ot *= part of ber cargo being 1
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or paf
rare, apply to the master op board. at Walnut-. .
wi utAaix j Or CO " ■ — , j
JOHN SAVAGE. t
Whs it Eindirig, out of the fiitf Ship, from Sour- ;
deaux, aad Fpf Sale, 1
Claret in hhds. '
White Wiwe in quarter calks ]
Glaret in cases, of a ftipcriur quality
ifontiniac, J I
Sauterne, > Wines in cases
Lunille, )
Prunes ih boxes
novertber 24. |
For Sale or Charter, ;
GOOD HOPE, i
Will carry about ndo barreN,and 1
r «ady to take in a cafga. For cernfis '
apply to '
Pragers 1$ Co.
No. 151, Sou eh Second-ftrcetb i
Who have for sale—prime St. Croi* Sugar and c
Rrßi, Madeira, Lifhon, and wine. J
November 7. dtf. I
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE -SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captain Chiskolm,
A' new vessel, with ercellent
accommt>dallon» for paflcngej*—
Sails on the loth of December. For Freight or '
I'alTage, apply to ROSS fs" SIAISON. '
IVh, have to di/pffe of, 1
A small invoice of GLAUOHR SALTS <
INDIGO, and a parrel of HOLLY WOOD. ;
novtmber 18. § 1
Chocolate and Mustard, ;
of a fnperior quality manufa<sl«red, j
GINGER and Pepper, ground ; shelled or i
pearl Bjrley ; Philadelphia Porter, Beer, :
Ale and Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Ale ; t
L.ndon Porter ; red. Port and Lilbon Wine-, :
suitable for exportation or horfte confumpiioH: 2
The highest pi ice given for Mtllfard-Se«d. 1
Also forfait, A qnautity of Booking and , '
common Baizes, a variety of colors ;. a bale of '
Fullians, Shawls, &c, for sale hv
JOHN HA WORTH,
No. 98, south Front-street.
Nov. 17. m.&th.t.ij.
Samuel Pleafants Sons,
No. 74, South Second-jlrcet,
HAVfi received a supply of Seasonable GOODS* I
which they are now opening for sale, on
reafonnhle terms. OA 17. —
Tin Plates,
FOR SALE BY
SIMON WALKER,
Pine, near Fifth street.. '(
December 28. 1 w
This cfay is Published, c
At the Qffice of the Aurora, No. 112, Market Street,
j Price or.e.dollar aftd a hal f ,)
A view of checondu& of the EXECUTIVE in t!»e
FOREIGN AFF'kIRS of the. United Statss, conneS
ed with the Mj'flion to the French Republic during -1
the years, 1 794, 5, 6,
By JAMES MONROE, ,
Late Miflilter Pler.sootentiary to the laid Republic ■
IlluUraicd by his I.VSTRUCTIONS aud COR
RESPONDENCE and 01 her authentic documents, 1
A very libcul allowance to those who "bny to (cjl - 1
again. v
December 13. *6t.
i
To be Exchanged for
Brill/2', German, or India Goods,
IN THE PACKAGE j
A tract of vahcable Land
' lii Lvceiijiiij , joining tint of the Holland co.
an J containing 10,000 Acvei.
Inquire of the Printer.
J"- i?- >
ROSS SIMSON,
H-AVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, COffiis, and
« «u»ntit,y of bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
: ■ Jamaica, \
I St. Vincent*, £ RUM.
and Bi-ngal J
300 calks RICE, sad • ■;
A parcel of ship building RED CEDAR.
Oil ij. J 1
Just Pubiifhed,
Andto he had at the Book-stores of Messrs. Dob
son, Campbell, Young and Ormrod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
OntheCaufes and Cure of Remitting or Bilious
Fevers.
To uh:!j is annexed,
; AN A BSTRACT of the opinions and praftice of
different Withers,: and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting iniqrefting fails aiyi refleftions rehtive to
theiyfbcltb ft'TFroiStt, ar Yellow Fever, which
has occsfioned so much diHref*and mortaliiy, at
diffefenf-ptriods, yi fevCr*! 01 the feapprt towns
' * ol* the United .States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felh>w $f tlifi Philadelphia College of Phy.fcians,
and Member of the American Philofop'hical Si
cicty, &c.
''""' ' ' ' "
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, proposing to contract his bufi
refs, offers this Estate for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Miu:hiife, ami a very good grift
Mill, with two pair df stones aito a good Forge, all
in perfect repair, as are all the Water Works connect
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built for the purpose of calling Cannon
for this State. —There are about two acre*
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay ana
Pasture. The Cannon lately manufactured there,
fully proves the*excellency of the metal, which it
luperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one of siXty-nine guns
lately made, although some of the 24 were bored
into £2 pounder?, have fail<d on proving. The fix
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufacture, and a place of arms lying in the ftatc
of Connecticut, and miles froift fdveral land •
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of watet issuing
from a Urge natural pond, very near the Fqrnace,
and which may be cCThverted into a variety qf othej
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all the lto«k and utensils, and have pefieflion
on or beiorfc the firlt of Junenext, and preparation
may be imfrin
in good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. Sec. For
terms, apply to Mr. lofeph Anthony, in Philadel
phia ; David Brooks, 'Esq. one- of thf ReprdcntawvfJ
in Conijrrfs tor thij State ; Mr, Dnvid Waterman, on
thepremifes, or lotheptopiietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Qsc. », .. . 3^wrf
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Mom Jay, thesroth
jbjV. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, it
Stvn miters, at Vu. BLACIvBURN's tottery I
and Brokers Office, No, 64, South Second-ilreet—
Tickets hr the Scfruylkijl Bridge Lottery, at TV/
Britars, Where check books are keji>t ior register- ,
ing and examining in these, the City q\ \Vifhing
ton, Ko.lt. aißl Paterfon Lotteries, and iriforma
tion where tickets may be ha J in liioft of the Lotte
ries authorifod l»y law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The bufinef* of a Bkotce-r, in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities, ,
difcounthg Bills and Notes of Hand, falc of
Lands, Holifts, &c. &c. Will be duly attended to,
by Wm., BLACKBURN.
ftowrAbtr 15. §
MUSIC.
j. L. LENZ,
RTpchef ol Vocal and instrumental Music,
ETURNS hi>>lincere thanks to the Ladies and ,
. Gentlemen, from whom he received a very j
liberal encouragement since his refutence in this ci- ;
ty, and refpeflfully informs his friends and the pub- ,
lie generally, that, in confiquence of the reijuoft
of some of his friends, he has opened a Musical i
Schwol at hishoufs in Spruce Street No 174, where ,
he will teach on the Piano forte, Viofin See. &c. ,
He d«cr*s it unneeeffaTy to enlarge upon the atf
vantages the learner will derive from an infritilti ,
on of this kind; he will only fay, that attention |
and jettlare much excited in an affi rithly, whetc ,
numbers are in pursuit of the firrtie ohiaft. Kl6 ]
arrangenxent is f.ifl;, that art interference of the .
the different feiet will be avoided. Those Ladles ]
and Gentlemen who cannot make it convenient to ,
attend at his school, he will- wart upon at their j
houl'es. Apf licatibns will be thankfully receiv- ,
ed at hit hooffi, where his terms and further parti
cular* may be known.
Dec. 7. *j\veod
James C. £sf Samuel W. Fiflier,
AT THE R STORE.,
No.ji3, corner of Arch and Front streets,
\BArE FOR SALE,
Cotton and worlted Hosiery in trunks, assorted
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannels
Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Pullicat silk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs ditto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taffetics
4COO pieces Nanktens, and
Few chests best Hyson Tea
Alfu —liocibtMcts best London Window Glass,
'from 8 by 6, to 19 by 14 —and 15 hhds. Glaf,
Ware, assorted, which they will difpofi of clieapor
than any in the city.
novemher 98. jawtT
The History of Pcnnfylvanra, .
BY ROBIKT PROUD,
Ig now in the press, and will be puhlifljed"
with all convenient expedition, by ZfcCHA
RIAH Poot-SON, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Hhiladelphia, where luhfcriptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed proposals, until tin
work is ready for the fuhfcriben.
July 18. »awtf
To Be Sold,
A GREE/IUI.Y to the tail will and tefHmeflt of
i 1 William H vsuam. deceafrd, and poffrf
(ion giY<ninknw.i;artiy, a valuable property inArch
ftrett between Third and Fourth ft. eets, confitb
• inguf the hauff, No. 107, with tile lot on whic*;
it is ere fled, afljai.-, ar.d other qnprLvereeats —
TkeWc » ao feet I rout, atid contains ten gootl
apaniuiiits. The lot is of the fame breadth as the
t>Sui« 6&f Vitli a wcllpf water »ri.J
a very cap?rioud waU«d ciilcrn, -koth with pump;
in goop repair. The ftabtc ftauds oa the rear. of
thelotand will accommodate four ho, (a and a iar
| riage. This property enjbysthe per jetual privilyt
of a 26 feet court audiyi alley, 8 feat wide, extend
ing to Churry Street. Itfe central pofitio* and the
.advantages it poflefles wiii refpeft to frrt vealila
titfn, renders it well worthy the attention of 3hy
person wifhingto poffels&n eligibleproperty in lJhi
. 'Ude'phi*, ' * • §.
For further particulars enquire at No 88, Vice
' Street—of.
ROBERT HF.vsham, ■ x
or > A&irg Executors.
Francis Bowfts Sayrk,. J
January 11 §
W. Haydqn,
Delineator of Drawing—-from Landprt,
(Where he bus liuJicd fereral years under one of
th#d:oft eminent malleis in tVat fciencej
INTORMS his friends,' that he has re-commenc
ed hfs private tuition.— Terms, as usual, Six
Dollars per month, For attendance three time* a
wee!:. -Likewise, all kinds of Ornamental Joint
ing, fruift Cow .pi, &c. ranght on the above terms.
W. H. flatter*himfelf his tcrrnswill be particu
larly advantageous to th fu that employ him, as
he makes no additional charge if tLere are two
pupil* in one
Aline W. If. loft at the qffice.oftbj'
Gizctte, mediately attended to.
January & t §aw
%f 'the owners of the Brigantine
Mercury, William Urcu, niafter, captured by
a Spahifh privateer and fold at Cent* in last De
cember, may receive interefling information ref
peifling her, by applying to the Department of
Stale.
*. * The Printers in the sea-port towns of
the United States will render a service to the
concerned, by inserting the above in tbeir newt
papers. Jan
"Wo T I C R.
To holders of JAMES GREENLEAPs
and EDWARD FOX'S Engagements,
IN C9nfequence of maaiy having been prevent
ed, from late unavoidable circumflances from
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. The Trustees now inform them, they
are ready to iflue the fame to those who may ap
ply within fixtydays, at Na. 8 Chefnut Street,
and those who dp not, will be considered as re
linquilhing their £laim on the Aggregate Fund
provided for their payment.
HENRY PRATT,
THOMAS W. FRAJJCIS
IAUMJ" ""-»i JUi\.
— JT7HN ASHLEY,
JACOB BARER.
December tj. «(6ct
LOS T,
IN this City, on Sunday November 16. 1797,
a red Morocco Pocket Book, containing 8
notes of hand to Read & Pukii, as follows,
John Duffitld's, for 441 dollars 73 cents.
William WLaws 435 37
George iVay'4 177 jg
John Doaks 11 - 90
Edward Clayton's 60
1 Do. 30
Do. 17
John Brown's .£lO6-13-^1
One 10 dollar Bank of Pennfylvauianote an or
dei upon Walter franklin, Esq. in favor of Charles
Read; and sundry other papers that can be of no
use but to the owners. Payment of the aforefaid
notes of hand being ttSp'd, a reward of 15 dollars
(hall be paid to the person or persons bring
ing said pocket book with the aforefaid contents to
Read and Pierie, No. 6j, Ckefnut Street and no
questions a(ked.
January 19. 'eed^t.
War-Office of the United States,
January the ifl, 1798.
ITTHEREAS frauds havr been praiftiled, in '
VV obtaining Warrants for Bounty Lands, due
to the Officers arid Soldiers of tile late Continental
Army, by the prediction of forged intlrumer.:..
To check in future such impoDtions, it has beeri
thought advifeable ; that all perfohs, having claims
for b,ounty lands, whether in their OWII right, as
legal rcprefentative, or by virtue of any infli um'rnt
or deed of transfer, be required t<J forward their
rsfpeitive claims to the War Office, on or before
thefirftday of January 1799 in order that such
claims may be duly examined, adjulled and deter
mined upon.
To fubflantlatefuch claims, obfetvance of
the rules heretofore iflued from th* War Office will
be indispensable ; and in addition to what is requir
ed by the said rulfts, tha certificate of the acknow*
ledgement of a Deed or Power of Attorney, must
also set forth the plate of refiJcnce and occupation
of the claimant or person making such acknowledg
ment ; and when the pioof of personal knowledge,
is by a witness or witnefles, their place or places of
residence must be set forth in likq manner-
JAMES M'HENRY, Sec'y of War.
J?"- 7- d6w
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La ORANGE,
No. 110 Walnut-street,
INFORMS those who wish to recur to the only
means of becoming perfeA i a the French Lan
guage, thathe has just opened his Lisrary, con
sisting ot upwards of 1500 volumes, the heft cal
culated to afford either ufeful inftruflion, or plea
sure. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may be feeu at every book-feller's
in town.
n. b. A'i tranflafions from and into the French,
Engliih and Spanifn Languages, execute with ac
curac) difpa;ch. eoim ««-. i^.,
Imported (.via New York) on the
(hip Hero, from Madras and and for
sale by the fubferiber, at N». 61, Chefmit ftrect,
between second and Third Streets, the follow
ing articles .
Maha-agonges Charconna Dorsns
Chmw and CnUcoes Dacca worked muslins
Gillis Ronuls B :ndannoes
Millas it Penfial'ocs Chafla Romals
lf!ue cloth flair ribbon
VullMullhanlterchiefs Palempores
I'atna do. Banares,Opium '
Lefler Car Jimum Seeds. »
Samitcl Wilcox.
. november 17 tutkiawFQ.ETRT.
[Our readers ?re W.dtb'-Ct] fur the W.awi®* exqtHfite
comnouhd cf elegant?, fob'.imuVi jw'l otibrAa'ty,
to the: common faur.'.aiy 'if §ei' ; .aj K and Jearn
it»£, The Faiwzh'.' Wsrr.LY Muuum From 1
a r.rircd eerier o?"rhc. Unlo», a genius if ihe fir/l
fcrih an enriching fboi t»f nv.mal tn
irrrav-meur, worthy tic pnrhitjve votaries of the
Athenian Goddess, e.e Die ancient sources of
knowledge, divcr'cd 10 pturfft of ruin by rhe igno
i jnce and brutality of t heir patriot*, ('he very proto
types of our Randolphs, Jetierloni and Bloums)
had Ilalke«l over the iomb of learning, to the iron
I way of a matter and : tyrant.
It has been the lot of ths '* lay p-cacHei" (a t«.o com
mon lo>) »o yivr under 41 :he negligence <>l his na
tiiwMu". *• Tnoti/»h he speaks a> a Sage, this he
i»c*Js j inaii", Ihofe (vU have tatte t »,. rtlUh
•' the racy product or ou: m untaio fide,'* or zea!
to water a tich and urofitablt gardeit v*ith the grate
fjldcAs of encouragement. w>«l not only c«»utrt
bwk to reCeu? (sots s£>u«ury in mi hitherto me
rited rcpu;»ch, but enrich tberafelweg with a (fore
k which uci'.her moih i.of just can corrupt', nor
Firnch incenrtiaiies upr prwW#burnup nor fteal —
b\ thcmfelves wish the Farniei's Weekly
Mufcum; printed at Walpoie, State of New-Hamp
ihire, by. Da-id Carlisle, juo.J
PETER PENCIL
Pefents to the Readers of the Farmer's Weekly
Museum,
A hE W YEAR'S POEM.
• 1
Pettr begtnneth with * grave apojltophe to Time ; proveth it
not to be of Freneh extraction —Addrefftth the itifatd \tar
rwth bccomytg politenef—lntroduced Wa(hin)fo\ oy a [
fim/e, better intended than executed - Lcaveth a fertile J
field for the Mtvtr Geniu/es at Hartford — Talktth ftel- j
■ngly to Agriculture and Ctntrn&rce—Raifeth a thunder,
storm Jor kid afters —Vaketh Columbus create a new
world ; putteth nim to ftujkj: equjeth him to dream pa
thrt.cally—Giveth advice worths the pt*lp}t% and concludet/i
with a modejl prayer of the Afaje, befeching our Ruler s
to admit her Jifter' as free citizens f the United States,
and Jhew form pecu!ia> Javour toh'.r sons.
-w
HAIL, parent Time ! whose womb prolific gives
To all things life, a grave to all that lives.
From the gnarl'd oak, thai heaven's red bolt derides,
To tie green vine, that twines its rifilefs fides ;
Whatever great, or Imall, or low, or high,
The mole's dark orb, the lynx's quenchless eye ;
The 14 flipfer'd pantaloon, the *• puling child",
Hobbling on crutch, or with a toy beguii'd ;
The lein-deer fleet, that flams the prmtlefs plain,
Ttiecouchant snail, that shuns his weight in vaia ;
The ocean's riftngs and the moon's quick change ;
1 he fun's lorg journey, and the comet's range ;
The glow worm's hour, the towering eagle's age,
M\ short liv'd verse, and Paine'a* perennial pjge:
White'e- thiirvaiied modes of life may be,
Their births, their periods, are prefcrib'd by thee ;
Tht'e, source of all, of all, the deft:n'd bourne,
From whose dread mound no errant gholls return ;
Who, to our wayward race, aft equal still,
Though partial rcafon hoodwinks human will ;
Who, while weak man on second cjufej pores,
And ownsno agent but what sense explores,
With deeds obev's tb' eternal mind,
And bid'rt the earthquake buift to bfefs mankind !
Whether thou guide with steady hand the po"e,
Or round the earth with varied fcafona roll ;
Of let enthrond upon the golden fun,
Or through with thy plane!s run;
Whi-rc'er thou rul'lt, ordir furroucds thy throne,
That firft cf vir:ues,ever is thy own.
Hail Ninety-Eight! Thou youngest child of time
£ pie on our Hates, and blefsour temp'rate clime ;
F»om Aries mild thv youthful wardrobe briug,
I'cace, roieae Health, aod Jill the bloom of Spring;
Temper the tummer fun's oppreflive power.
Shed on the fuff'ripg field he genial shower ;
When to cold Capricorn thy fhort'nmg days
Bid thee retire, (till let ihy partjog rays
i.,j and leave bchipd
OT,lßl *™^^ is^3 ®22aß^iUind.
So our great patron, Washington, of TaT?;*'
- with the hand of time, and cares of state,
When life's benignant spring had grae.d his youth
With early wreaths, and feeds of manly truth,
The ardent toils of war his valour try'd.
And plenteous peace his ripen'd age fupply'd :
Like Sol retiring from his annual toil,
Beams his pure lustre on hisnurtur'd foil-
Still (hinesthe patriot fun—thou Guardian Pow'r
Prolong his day, illume his setting hour;
When call'd from us he shines in brighter Ikies,
Grant othei funs like Washington may rife !
What war of words has mark'J th'expiring year,
groans of m »rder*d periods ftunn'd the ear;
What |iAs of heroes throng'd the paper fit^ld,
Their weapon insult—want of sense their fhicld ;
How coward Wit from scribbling wights has fled,
What fl reams of ink by fa&ious pens been shed,
Let 45 Mule the tenth" )e sacred Nine!
A nob'er theme-—the arts of peace be thine.
Thou firft of arts, fouree oi domdlic ease,
Pride cf the land and patron of the seas,
Thrift Agriculture ! lend ihy potent aid,
Spread thy g»ecn fields where dreary forcfts shade ;
Where met* purlu'd the»r savage prey,
Let he while flocks in vfirdam paftu es play ;
From theblooni'd orchard and the flow'ry vale,
Give thy rich fragrance to the gentle gale;
Rev. ard, withampleft boon, the labourer's hand,
And pour thy glacid'ning boUpties o'rr our land.
Coluinkia's sous, Ipurn not the rugged toil;
Your nation's glory is a i-uliur'd foil:
Rome's v. ir.cinnatus, of illaftr'ous birth,
Increas'd his Lurels while he till'd the earth ;
h'en Chiua's monarch lavs his sceptre down,
Nor deews the task. unworthy of the crown.
Be, lib'ral Commerce, thv white fail unfurl'd,
To join in social bands a jarring world ;
Bring hoipe these aits that dignity the mind,
But leave debasing luxury behind.
]f some Ijold vcfle! crols the wedtrn main,
To fell its country's faith for private-.gairi»— '
In blatkell cloud, O fun ! involve thy face—
, Let the fieict storm avenge the black disgrace ;
G;ve to the da. ing ere >v a watry grave,
Spare, from an age of death, the life doom'd flive—
Shew to the world, by ample vengeance given,
Commerce like this is contraband of heaven!
Columbia's Cecius ! guard our native fliore ;
Let clarioil grate our ears no mor*|;
While Europe in convuifion shakes the world,
Here letthe flag of union be unfurl'd :
With the fame zeal be ev'ry breast infpir'd,
Which thy immortal son with *rdor fir'd ;
With manly grief earth's elder realms he saw,
Vice their religion, tyranny their law—.
Be a new woild, he said. fKies,
And 10, Columbia's virgin regions rile.
Come, public spirit, to this fertile land,
A nfing nation asks your lib*ral hand ;
Unite my sons in one great common cause,
To formfrcm private virtue pubi c laws.
He spake ; and 10. the genial fpiiit flew
fiom the old Morld. and gladly fought the new,
Btcught in her train Health. Fiecnom, bold Emprize,
And bade a more than Roman empi:e rife.
The sage in vision view'd oui country's fate,
Saw the fair profpeft of each tiling ttate.
Blithe the work with magic hand,
New ciiiis rife along (Kc winding strand ;
Before His touch the stubborn forcfls bow,
And pay their rightful homage to the plough ;
A b.»ft<i»fptnfe >ya»'s fad alarm,i
t Our veteran heroes ctußi the tyrant's a»m--.
!n peace oar glory, and in oui-fliield.
With iionois Uurel'd reap'd on vi£l'ry% fie'd,
Columbia's Fabius dishes his patriot sword, -
By heaven applauded, and by man adoi'd.
Anor>, around the governmental fur,
I he tcd'ral orbs in lylt.m'd union
In ev'ry port fair Comme;Ce ipreads her fair,
Lt ads the rich end moca the inland gale—
Ye trcach'rcusfcas, why bear, ye why blov,
Our narinn's wealth to a more treach'.ous loe?
Now falls oar flzg, if t urope's pirxres nod—
Shame 19 our land, there are who k»fitherod I
Exuliing b'aftion (Uijsour pe ce at hoinr,
And Cataiiuea preparr to fire a Roma !
# An decant pott of Bcftpa,
J.t, i;: ..'o -.:e C.J./e, m
Pr»- v\i:oua:i, 'a,- # jrVd - -
'•' ? hife lir»;ri his i. ••
From cajfi ot slate bii c.'i-"> • I; i wi-hd/cv :
c From hisgriii'-.Ktfrh
' Ai,d-guth\i the tear itar.x hiiilil ct--d eve —
l " The Guardian Cdlms f»w 'ii jSfiV*M'lcars,
• Oped a iceneand «w*y ft's fears.
r j to his view appc.irs a* J turf ft t < i,;ei
'* Sm:iing in all the -gCi
| ® ! A ou:«il hii head the Uam< (<i wit'd -Hi UiV* c —
\ More thiii a king, without 01 cro>irn or ihrotiw
> " ; H:s mud a fceotre f:oins~h»s c unLiy's cau'e, x
)- v I lis pen efpouies, and dcf.udi h. 1 iiwj ;
s ) _ Plea>'d by his iidi fai r Freniom holds her place,
11 j Andall he Virtues blend their niutajl grace ; I
j Decilive Ju(t;cs *ear« ber flejdy hand, <
l * ] Suspends htr eq'ial fealc o'er sea ai.d land ; ]
l " j Commerce re res. the filler arts iacieafr. ;
\ c { Fell Faction dus, and <milesdomcit.c peace; (
* <4 Fly iwifc.'y, T:r?ic. rrv.-al the with'd ft»'r hour, ]
W hen cq-jal laws !hi ( c'i-.v ■ f'j i 1
c ~
l " private view* . ijb p«o.icgi»o4
BleJTmg', i!i!ca-theiV fifty grateful sons d'ti 1 trc,
rc Wiiilc .-va.i&is hlaa she Tideptial <h«ir \r* 1 \
)r Columbus thus : ar»d Ihali our poor dclert
~ l'fcr promil'd era ot our l ui n- avert ? .
y Forbid it Heaven ! bid each Columbian's mind,
P" First love i?s country, then embrace mankir.d ;
Butbanifh kindred ! may nj patriot know,
Like Blount, a brother, in his country's foe,
When doveey'd Peace fu.ceedsto War's alarms,
[y A nation's rage should iu(l upon its arms:
No generous foe, in friendfhip scorns to live ;
Thejgreat ma>conqucr —but the good forgive !
Thus sing* the fed'rai mufe—ao fa&ious lays ;
First for our land.; then for her fonsfhe prays,
lt Here let the muses hold their tranquil feat,
ir And lib'ral arts their lib'ral patrons meet,
■ The lout's effufions warm cur colder clime,
* j Smooth as Ohio flow the polifh'd rhyme ;
Or, Erie like, in copious torrents foil,
J On Fa&ios's fire, and daring Vic« appal.
Then, while the lamp infpircd p-jdants toil,
,/ t To hrde with pilfer'd lore a barren foil;
y The flowers of tafie shall bloom en DsNNic'spage,
f t And Tvle * s Drama grace Celnmbia's stage ;
Aonian harj s repeat i'hilenia's strain,
Atid European Genius yield the palmto'PAiNE.
! Mrs. GRATTAN,
i, T) ESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies and
-Iv Gentlemen of the City, that agreeable
to the wi(h of Mrs. Grattan's fubferibers, on
Tuesday next (he gives a Ball, with refrediments
infteid of a concert, at Mr. Uichardets. Tick
ets of admittance to non-fu'ofcribers two dollars.
■ to be had at Mrs. CraMan's, No. 191, Market
Street.
No nor-fubferibers tickets to be given without
the recommendation of a subscriber.
: Jan. is- dtf
Marshal's Sales.
-United States, 1
Pcnnfylvania Dijlritt. J
BY virtue of an order irom theDiftriA Court of
the Ui ited States, in and for the Pennsylvania
will be expofvdto lale at C'hefnut Street
wharf, on Wednesday the 31ft January, at 11 o'
clock at nocn, for the benefit of the concerned—
viz.
66 Boxes of window glass
14 do. hollow gjafs
294 Straws glass tumbles
100 Pieces Rufiia sheeting
118 Pieces Ravens Duck
s 55 Pic es fail clo:h
1 Barrel and one keg of copper nails
9 Hhds.of Beef
3 Bbls. Pork J
2 Jackfcrews
32 bails, 2 fine stays
1 Hhd. Vinegar
2 Drip stones
2 Small and one large water jars
2 Guns with—figrriages
1 Copper boiler " 1 1111 u I -
1 Iron lanboon
2 Side boards, one table
29 Coils of cordage
9 Pipes and one hhd. of Gin-
The fame having been fared from the wreck of
the ship John, capt. Foiger, and libelled against for
salvage.
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marshal.
Marthal's Office, ">
23d January, 1798.3
Pursuant to the last Will and
Te.lament of Jos. flenfzey, deceased, will be ex
posed to public f»l- at the Merchants' Coffee
House, in Second (Ireet, on Wednesday, the 31ft
irft. at 7 o'clock in the evening—
A VALUABLE LOT or piece ef ground situ
ated on the weft fide of Delaware Eighth ftrect,
beginning at the corner of Lombard llreet, and
extending northward 8i iect, thence westward 90
feet, and northward 40 feet, to an eight feet wide
alley, thence along the said alley westward 98 feet
to a ao feet wide alley, called Blackberry alley,
thence extending by . the laid alley m f eet) t0
Lombard flreec, and eastward by the f*id street
188 feet to the piact as beginning. The situation
of this lot is pleasant and in an impioving part of
the city (a large three story brick? mejlaage of
48 feet in front, having been lately finilhed imme
diately apposite) it has four fronts, and may be
convenient!) divided int.) ten building lots, fiom
»o to it feet in front, which will readily yield the
purchifer an annual income of 450 dollars or more
at the euftomary price for lots near the fame situa
tion
Also a two story frame messuage or tenement and
lot or piece of ground, situated on the weft fide of
BUckberjy alley, containing in breadth on the raid
alley 42 feet, and in len b th or depth .58 feet.
There is a frame Cable 011 the back part ol the lot.
One yearly rent charge «f forty (hillings, iffuiug
. out of a lot or piece of ground situated in Artille
ry Lane (in <Jie Northern Liberties) on which is
ereflcd a brick messuage, f
Alfoone other yearly rent tfcarge of jl issuing 1
out of a lot or piece of grdund situated in Duke c
street (coiEmonly called Artillery Lane) on which f
iiereded a frame mefluige.
Also, ico acres of land, situated in the connty
of Weftmordand, in the state of Pennsylvania, ly- J
ing in the 6th diftria of donation lands, number- It
ed 13CO, patented in 1786, bounied cast by Lts
119 and 120, south by 130 X, weft by 1181, north r
by 1199. 1
A Iso, one military land warrant for 100 acrees '
I.ikcwife, a very valuable lot or piece of ground 1:
with a three (lory commodious hri.k feoufs and r J
frame kifhen, situated on theeaftfideof Second
street from Schuylkill, and north fide of Race or
SaiTafras street, containing on Second street 150 F
> feet, at.d on SaiTafras or Race street *47 feet
There are ereded en the premises befidesthe above t
dwelling, a convenient Barn and Stable fufficient- ii
ly large to accommodate several cow«,alfo a num- •
ber of neat summer-houses in the garden ; a varu-
ty of trees, some of which are l'rilit, there is a C
pump with excellent water in the yard. This pro- c
perty is not more than two squares from the canal h
which will be highly advantageous to it, i u a f ew v.
yurs.
Part of thiscftate is leafed for 100 dollars per °
annum, of which two yearsftoin the 25th March
next, are unexpired. a
A Share in tke Philadelphia Library will like o
wife he fold.
Conditions will be made Jtnown at the time of v,
fait. n
Auypcrfon wilhiugto view the property will V
pleife to applp to o
JOHN WARNER, v
at No. 28, north 4th street /
ortoEDWaRB CU I'BOSH, ' ( "ecuttri. v
. No. 19, 4th ftrect. J
W ILLISM SHANNON, Aufiiocecr.
c o $f 0 X ® ®
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Del/ate «n Foreign InUrcwcfi.
.[Conuujie-l j efterday'a Oaief.e.]
TUESDAY JANUARY 23.
Mr, FiNDLJjY believed, if the amendment
under confide™*'"" hail been argued only
upon its proper ground, its he
(houlc not have troubled the house with any
obfei nations upon it; but this ground had
beep, widely departed from. The arguments
of gentlemen who supported it, had not on
ly bl*en mifapp'veh'ended and miltated, but
they thcmfeltfw had been charged with the
vftfrll o( indentions. Jif had fat a whole
feflion in 'Congress, and not heard so many
; jn.'freprefentatioDs, and so much play upon
| words, as he had heard in this debate.—
j Though Ije did not poffefsthe eloquence and
; delivery of other gentlemen, he would, at
; least, endeavour to set them an example of
candour.
It might have been fairly argued whether
it was now expedient to narrow the extent
of our diplomatic corps. This, of itfelf
would have absorbed a pretty large field of.
discussion, and upon this ground, he sup
posed the questions which came before the
house, were determined upon the principle
of expediency. That the queftion-
Hands on this ground was acknowledged by
gentlemen on different fides of the house ;
for it had been admitted, by those opposed
to the amendment, that if the President
were to appoint a large number of ministers
(an hundred had been mentioned), the house
would be juftified in refufing an appropria
tion.
The gentleman from Connecticut (Mr.
Grifwold) had said, that the constitution,
declared, that th? President (hould have the
power of appointing to office—but that the
fuppotteis of' this amendment declared the
contrary. This was misrepresentation.
The queltionfoas not who fhouldbc appoint
ed, btir whk offices {hould be retaiaed—
and he always understood it to be the pro
per business of the legislature to inftiiute
offices, and to fix the salaries of the per
sons who (hould fill them, but no farther.
The constitution gave to the President the
power of " appointing ambafiadors, other
public ministers and consuls, judges of the
supreme court, and all other officers of the
United States, which (hall be established by
law." There seemed to be a diftindtion be
tween officers appointed by the constitution
and officers appointed by law. Foreign mi
nisters and judges were officers appointed by
the constitution—but did the Executive e
ver appoint a judge before his office and sa
lary were appointed by the legislature ? No
more than he would pretend to appoint mil
itary officers and ambafiadors, whose offices
were not fixed by law. But it was yester
day said, that Congress had nothing to do
with foreign intercourse, and that they had
no right to investigate it. He was surpris
ed to hear this. Was not the power of de
this power no way connected with our inter
course with foreign nations? And if the
power of declaring war was in Congress,
were not those powers also placed there
which Ihould enable them to judge upon the
propriety of such a measure ? They cer
tainly were—since it was not expected that
power (hould be exercised blindly.
But the committee was told, if they ex
ercised this power, that they (hould flop the
wheels of Government—a favorite expression
of a favorite.author. How was this to be
done? If the doctrines of gentlemen op
posed to this amendment were to prevail,
they would at least Jlop the -wheels of this
house. But it was stated to be the intention
of those who advocated this amendment, to
check and counter-check the goverment, un
til they (topped it altogether. This was a
novel declaration. Pie believed the doftrine
of checksas farashad been stated, had been
imported, because he did not believe the
Aborigines knew any thing of it ; but if
the governments of this country were trac
ed to their source, it would be found to be
interwoven in them all. The patronage oc
casioned by appointments to office, had al
ways been a feriousqueftion in forming both
(late governments and the general govern
ment. In some states the power was divid
ed between, the legislature and the Execu
te—in -rrthw ftatcs, the jealousy which ex
isted in this refpedt had placed the power in
the legislature. Were it necessary for him
to give an opiftion on the fubjedt, he (hould
have no hesitation in declaring, that this
power was improper to be placed in a legis
lature: and that by placing it there, in en
deavouring to avoid one evil, they laid the
foundation for a greater.
When the constitution of the United
States was under consideration, it was well
known to those members of the committee
who were present at that time (and some he
saw), that this was an important question. '
It was thrown into different (tapes, until at
last it was adopted as in the constitution. •
This regulation was adopted upon principle !
and was not a mere arbitrary thiiig. The
power of appointing to office was brought '
down by placing a part of it in the legilla- j
ture. It was farther reftrainad, by prohib
iting any member of the legislature from eu- '
joying during the period for which he was !
eledted, any office which (hould have been '
cieated', or the emoluments of which (hould
have been increased, during that time. Thus !
holding up so vi'pv the avenues by which
corruption was malt likely to enter.
But they Had teen told the President was
a check upon the legislature, the senate up
on the President and house of reprefenta- !
tive ; but that the house of reprtientatives
had no check upon the executive. If this j
was the nature of our government, he mult
own he wag ignorant of. it, though it was
well known hp had been pretty conversant
with it since it had an existence. He be
lieved it was not without reason that the '
P ewfr of originating moncv bilh was ■
v ' a !
placed io th'c house of reprefeiftitiees, j
which was an effectual checlc —He was ear- J
ly led to this opinion. When the cotfft;- (
tntion was under confederation, ttii; was as- |
ferted, by men well acquainted with the |
fubjedt, as an effedtual check ; though it i
was also predidled that the day mighc ai- j
rive, though it was thought to he very tar i
diftanr, when it might, be considered other- j
wife. he was ferry to find, thit day 1
was now coine, so much sooner than it had,
been predidte:l,
In the year 1796, our diplomatic inter
course was firft ejjarged. He then voted
for it, not because he was convinced it was
necessary, but because "he tad not an op
portunity of knowing it was not nkeftary,
and he therefore tnilicd to ex ecu'
ment ; not Vt:at he considered hiinfeif as a
mere machine, and that hi w;f?souii<? to ap
propriate, because the Preiideirt ISftl'fcnt
an edimate to the hoiife. This dodtrine
was not then avowed, if it had, it would
have (lartled the house. He voted it as a
temporary measure ; and he did not think
if the appropria'ion was now withheld, !
that the house could be charged with en
■ tering into the executive ckV, and with
doing executive business. In order to keep
the fubjedt completely within the power ef
congress, the law had been passed only for
two years; upon the fame principle ' that
the law was passed with r*>pedt to a (land
ing army. I~le therefore submitted it to
gentlemen to determine which was the new
dodtrine, that in support of the amend
ment, or that produced agaiaft it.
In order to support th* npceffity of min
isters abroad, gen'.lemen had dated it to be
their business to watch the proceedings of
foreign courts. That this might have been
the cafe, he had no doubt, but he believed
we had had no proof of this watchfulnefs
of late. He feared tiiey were more fre
quently employed in forming plots with
which they had no business. We had a
minister at a certain court, he said, and
though an order was iffned vthiVß" placed
our commerce upon a most"dangerous foof 7
ing, yet we never heard "ot" it, utitil we
heard of its execution. Upon the whole,
he believed ministers refitient were equal to
any business we had to do in foreign coun
tries, and a salary of 4,500 dollars, had
never been Complained'of as being too low ;
as to what gentlemen had said about other
nations fending ministers to this county,
and.that therefore we ought to retura min
isters of the fame grade to them, this could
not be a governing principle with this coun
try. We had to conlider our own advan
tage, and let foreign nations attend t©
theirs.
But it was observed, that no branch of
government was to be supposed capable of
abusing its powers. This was contradicted
by the constitution, for it had guarded a
gainst this abuse in the executive. Gentle
men spoke of this amendment as calculated
to injure the President ; he did not fee how
that could be. Refufing to appropriate
money for any objedt which he were of o
pinion ought to be effedtcd, could be doing
• • : 'fit were, tie had hffn
injured during theTunntrerTeßiony as con
gress had declined to adt upon feveral[fab
| jedts which he had recommended to them.
The gentleman from Delaware (Mr.
Bayard) in speaking of the vnconfiderable
nature of the patronage of our executive,
to (hew there was no danger to be apprehen
ded from an extension of it, compared it
to the patronage of the crown of England,
the ejtenfive source of which he did not
consider as dangerous, but as necessary to
preserve the monarchy. To hear this doc
trine on this floor, alloniflied him, as well
as the use made of it. Here, he stated,
the pratronge was not dangerous. Why ?
Because a greater was necessary to the mon
arch in Great-Britain to preserve his power
and he supposed, as a necessary conse
quence, therefore, it was necessary here, to
promote a monarchy I Gentlemen delighted
to dwell on this theme, and to prove that
all danger was to be apprehended, from
popular governments. It was his opinion
that it was necessary, in order to preserve
republican purity in our government, to
guard against the extension of executive
patronage. Pie might call to his aid to
prove this, the hHtary and experience of
all ages and nations, which would (hew
that republican governments corrupted,
were worse thtuiTnor.'rtTclueS: IJc iTJen took J
a view of the different popular governments
which had formerly exi-fted in Europe, and
(hewed that the spirit of despotism in the
executive had wholly deitroyed and a'ofor
bed the popular branch-s.
Ungenerous alluiion;,-, the tendency of
which he did not understand, had been-made
against persons from fon*jn countries. It
had conftant policy of this coun
try to admit as citizens, after a certain pe
riod, persons from all-countries. Our con
stitution and laws admit of no diftindtion of
citizens. Why, then, was it now thought
to be dishonourable not to have been born
in this country ? If this principle had been
introduced sooner, he (hould have been saved
some trouble ; for lie, though born in a fo
reign country, had been elected by the citi
zens of this country to tran(a£i their legis
lative business for_ many years, and he did
not think that they ever conceived their re
presentative would have heard it insinuated
in this house, that he ought not, on that ac
count, to be confidertdupon the fame ground
with other members. Left th's sentiment
lnould not have had its force, it \*as repeat
ed, dating, that cur danger did not arise
from foreign correspondence, but from the
importation of foreigners. He did not know
what all this meant, except it were to des
troy the harmony existing between the citi
zens of the union, who were of all coun
tries. But in connedtion with this, some
thing had been (aid which seemed to fliew
the aim of gentlemen. Theft persons were
called enemies of government, and were
charged with making attempts to overset it,
and even this amendment was ftafed as be
ing intended to have this effedt. He aflccd
, whetk-r such charts arire a<Ml. " J. la th „
- reatuo of that commbtcc 7 Th/.'P j #-
- had U-en chared H*
- flrettug the people out of door! ; but W
: |ly nothing was better calculated than £
t . cfwrgej, to catch the public ear 4 h
- j fkirely, if there- were any aftempt
r the it w a ,
■^a fc *w
Sn° H k U t T ty WaS U " dcr CoDf,der2:
ton. He knew there was an attempt made
to give a new sense to the conliitution—
, an attempt was made to pass a vote in its fa
- voi vponprinciple, instead of expediency and
a by doing so, to declare the We hl ino
fr aPt>ropn«;n K to carry «U„ £ {
t feU a treaty ; if that point had been cam
-1 ,', » V ° 6 cn Q wfetti'ng a well t f
i S , c ti.r' litu ' i "'" 1 p™ d P k °t« «
v He acknowledged if were only a few men
, who made use of this violent kind of £.
ffuage, and he knew their charafrers. Thev
a were chi,-<v men who had been accuftomej
p to make narrungues in county courts, where
i fuoh liberties were usually taken.
V .
C . M' IsaacPark.r apologized f, r rifinj i»
. lo late a f.age ot the debate, especially a 3 he did
, not know that he fhbnld off-r anv thing whi-h
' k/VT T" ths iul 'i e,a 'ten
. but he thought ,t neceflarv t f ..!l Jtt h, opinien
upOo some things which fell from the -endt
man troin Virginia. '
He con' /ered this amendment merely as a.
e text thrown rut for pofirical d.fcuff.oi-the
f I,'dXf if WC ' ha<l b " B tonfill "ablv eluded.
n I. de.d t was no uncommon thing when gta-
t emen found their measures meet with greater
oppofmon than they expected, to endeavour to
g.ve them a different .fpeS.. The gen.lem,*
- from Mr Brent) yeSerday, confined
.1 t.ie objefi of the motion to a narrower ground,
3 a , nd exhibited it in a let, formidable flnpe tlan
I t,u ' 1,1 which it had be:ore a opened. The
1 J llov " r ' of t,ic amendment let out with declaring
r "?• "Wtni'on to tying back our diplomsf
ic mterceiuie ta what it was in the ye.tr i-aj -
e but there was no principle in that law fimilaVto
, tins amendment. Cl,ere wa, nothing ,here hut
0 an appropriation of money. wittuut iny r .f„
_ ence to the grade of remitters to be employed
But the gentleman wished to limit the patron
-1 age of the executive, without bringing any proof
> that tins power had been abused ; hut having no
r ground of this kind togo upon, tliegeut eman had
, invented a number oj theories of his own,unfanc
. tioned by experience, He dated that the/or»
j of a government was of little conl'equenee For
_ his part, he thought the people of this country
were well assured of the importance of a repub
lican form of government, so conftruaed as to
a preserve its purity ; but now they were told*-
vry thing depended tulely upon tlie execution
,f of a government.
,f In support of this principle, the gentleman
had affeited that executive patromge wis more
dangerous in republiian govemmeuts ihan in
monarchical ones. If this were true he wasmif
informed by hiftury. There were few goveru
d meets in the world, which partook of the re
iV publican form ; he knew none, but those of this
e country, Great-Bruain, and the prefsnt govern,
ment of France. All the other gorernments
with which he was acquainted, were either nio
° i archies with some or
11 " bad taken place in
the European iiad btl . p r „ dot . cJ
(- by repi-clcntative bodies. hTe mitaiued the re
volution 111 France, which he (taredas being pro
•. duccd by the King's cunvoking a reprefenrative
e assembly -.'orjhe purpose of extricating hirrfeff
from his difficulties. But the gentleman trcm
' I Virginia, he ftaied, had said that the liberties of
"(the peopla of England were in greater danger
t I thin if they had no representative.body ; but he
i, ; believed the reform of that government from an
t | absolute, to a limited monarchy, had been occa
-0 ! honed by the people. So soon as reprefenta
_ j tives ofthe people were admitted into the go
vernment, the reform began, and continued mi
til it became muck more benefieial to the j:eo
> pie, thdH it had befoie been.
? He wished to examine into the faft wJiether
- the republican governments were not preferable
r to any other. He believed that this country
was indebted for its independence to the repub
lican governments of the individual dates. If
0 it had not been for thennhebelieved these dates
would still have been a colony under Gieat-Bri
t tain. But by the people having the privilege of
1 eleifling enlightened citizens into their legifla
-3 tures, who were aware of thedifadvantagesun
„ e'er which the country laboured from being fub
je<St to a power, this di fad vantage was
3 ihewn to the people, and it produced a spirit fa
■ vourable to independence. He had therefore
1 adopted a different opinion from that avowed
f by the gentleman from Virginia ; he believed
r a republican government, the best poflible go
government for f;curiag the liberties of. a cniwi
' try. rk'^eTtifteci rt'gh! be'abufes in re*
publican governments, as well as others; but
' no fail had been adduced to (hew that abuse«
' exided in our gox-ernment; nay the gentleman
; from Pennsylvania (Mr. Gallatin J acknow.'edg
. Ed —and he was glad to hear the acknowkdge
ment —that our government was as yet tolera
• bly pure. Why, then, go. into raeaiures to pre
vent mifchiefs, which are unlikely to take
plaee ? But it was said these mik hiefs were to a
' rife from the power of theprefie'ent to appoint
to office. It was tru;, the prefideut had this
• power, but it was also true that the senate par
. licipated with him in that power; fothatifa
p ny patronage attended it, it was divided between
the two departments, aad, it could not hefup
pofed that the senate, composed of gentlemen
ofthe firft talents from the different parts oft if
1 Union, would be likely to misuse this power.—
i They were a check upon the prefidrnt, and there
- was no need of any other.
But danger was appreht'ii 'ed from the pref«
■ dent's appointing,to cffic-., only men ot uptn*
| ior.s conl'onan f to his own. He thought the ar
2i;ments of gentlemen hjd been foiOtV'nat rr.il
ftated on this ground, lie had heard no gen
tlernan contend, that if there fnould lie a vacan
" cy iu an office, ami a perlbn of ability and in
' tegr'tv pr. lenied himfelf ft,r it, though he mig t
entertain Irnne opinions difierent from thole «.
. the executive, or might thir.k Tome of the mei
. of the ddff,iniflration had been wroi.;',
tl-at, on that grourid merely, he fhonld be re
: 'le&ed If thev did, he should not join then..
' His opinion was, however 1 , that if there"*ere a
set of gentlemen averse to every moalure of g< -
• vernmtnt, to whom it was fufii«ient to know
. tbat ,1 twliMf* was recommended by the execu
tive, for li.ern to condemn it—that these gentle
men ought not to be appointed to office; as it
niivl.tbe fiippofcd that fucli persons would
r tkrr retard, than assist in the execution of the
' meafurts of go\erwn?nt. F«r irtftatiee, fop
, oofe there were fmne citizens iir thr country
rand l e ha- heard there were) who
! thit lie exe'.k lew or carrisg rax, were t»coa-ftitut-uml or rm -per, wo ,\i it he prmjcrv or |
right.to appoint pcrfons of tbi* dtfuip;. mio I
colleA thoSe taxis ? Certainly » «r, ihey j
create an'oppo itio . to the govcrntti&n , l>y rea
dying tV.ofe law* obnoxious.
But it was laid the preference of men of cer
tain opinions, ;f the bufineS o? foreign ininif
ters was continued, might hive an improper in
fl #:vce upon the. menders of the teg:flitare.
He thought few gentlemen in Congr.fs w;re
capable of being operated upon by an exp:ilj
tionof appointments to oHi.e ; bcft lci, it the
preGdent vfere toafl cbnfifleotly witli tiie piin
etplei which gentlemen attributed to him, he
would not chul'e gentlemen from thence who
werea&ivt in lupport of executive meafure9 ;
he would rather u ilh to retain thc.n in tlieir
present fixation.
To tholVgeft'lemen wlio thought confqls were
equal to every b ilinefs which we hid to fettle
abroad,he wou'd %y, that the duty of confoils
was well known and defined, l»y pil 1- |jift ; it
only relates to individuals of this country wha
might have occasion to go to foreign countries,
ar.d who might require affifbnce from them.—
There was iio instance, he believed, of any re
prefrillation being made from one government
to another, by means of consuls. .If it were ne
ctlTary to have any such representation made, it
was proper, therefore, to leave the bufinel's in
the hands of the prelident and fenate-who would
best determine to what place miiiilteri ought to
?'» lent, and what (hnuld be their grade. He
fhou!d, therefore, voteagaii.lt the amendment ;
and though fonie gentlemen might vote in favor
of : t, thinking that it did not iurerfere with the
constitutional p-jwer of the executive, yet it was
his opinion, if it were voted upon the ground
stated by the mover of it, it would iaf-iiige up
on those powers, tr.ore especially aa the gentle
himfelf had declared, that though he did
not mean it present, to attenip' an overturning
of the whole diplomatic Corps, he meant to do
it at fame future period
The committee rose and had leave to fit a
, - ' \
- ■■ ( Delatt to be continued.)
NEW-YORK, Januarr 25.
Departed this life, on Monday the 22d
ind. at his feat at Marriffama, in the 72d
years of his age, the Hon. LEWIS [MOR
RIS, Esquire, Major General of the Sou
• thern Division of this State. Hrs- remains
were interred, yesterday, in the Family-
Vault at Morriffania, with military ho
nors. A detachment, coirfilting of four com
panies of infantry "from Col. Morton's and
Col. Steddiford's regiments, performed the
military duties at the place of interment
and minute-guns were fired fiom the Batte
ry in the city under the direftory of Capt.
Ten Ey'ck, commencing at half pad one o'
clock P. M.
Though philosophy would teach us that
as death is inevitable, the certainty (hould
ever reconcile us to the event; yet, when
Worth and Virtue fink to the tomb, we find
the human heart triumphing over the cold
precepts of this philosophy. Affection will
dwell with delight upon the departed worth
and will heave the sign ftho'unavailinS) for
it's loss. This tribute from the pnblic and
from his friends, few have bettermerited than
the deeeafed.
From the public he received distinguished
proofs of confidence, having been (in the
.'ii.tivil department)a member of the firft cob
grefs who vote® the- of
■ ' United States arid for a number of year* «
member of the senate of this state.
In the military, rose through the va
rious grades, to the rank of major general
of the southern division.
With his friends he was highly edeemed,
for he possessed those qualities which render
the friend truly valuable. To an uncommon
degree of chearfulnefs of disposition, were
united as genuine philanthropy and hofpita.
Jity, as ever graced or warmed the bosom of
man.
With the grief, therefore, ofhis family,
for their bereavement, will be joined the sor
row of the public, for the loss of a good ci
tizen ; and of many individuals, for a wor
thy and much valued friend.
PROVIDENCE, January 20.
The Ship Henry, Capt. Boyd, from Su
rinam for this Port, is captured by the Bri*
tifh frigate Lapwing, and carried into St.
Kitts.
The Ship Semiramis, Capt. Jacob Smith,
Is arrived at Newport from Batavia; having
performed her voyage out and home in 8
months and 25 days.
BOSTON, January 22.
Extraa of a letter from a gentleman at Calcut
ta, tn his friend in this place, dated July
31, 1797.
" You will perhaps expeft me to give
you a statement of business in this quarter;
but it m>uld require many pages to make
but an imperfect representation ; however
ij is such, as to insure me a handsome voy
age if the (hip reaches America in fafety ;
and I think presents such advantages, as to
induce the Americans to prosecute it and
make ft the mod extensive branch of tkeir
commerce.''
PORTSMOUTH, January 17.
Friday evening, a sailor named Robert
Williams, a foreigner, belonging on board
the armed ship Crescent, lying at Col. Lang,
don's iflandjumped overboard and was drow
ned, he appeared for a few days previous to
bealittle deranged. On the morning follow
ing he was taken up, and after the usual
ceremony, was bro't over this fide, and
decently interred in the North burial ground
followed by the officers and men belonging
to the fiigatc and a number of the inhabit
ants of this town.
RICHMOND, January 15. '
On Wednesday tad departed this life, Ja- 1
quelin Amblkr, Treasurer of this State, '
liis lait illness, which was painful beyond de- ,
fcription, he fultained with & patience and t
fortitude well becoming a good man and a ''
pious chriftian. His loss will be long and
feveicly felt, not only by those whoever? a
closely conne&ed with him by the ties of
blood and frieHdftiip, but by all within the | 0
iphere ofhis acquaintance- His funeral was- i
attended by a numerous and refpeiSsJjle cu a ■ '
§ " | " " '"p '• - I
' evrurfe of pjcplr; and the body.
; by an unanimous vote, adjourned for a time
| in order to pay him the 'alt melancholy tri
bute, aud to tc-Hiiy the high frnle they en
tertained of his character and public fcrvi
ces.
On.the late Mr. Ambler..
When a good man dies, his worth ought
tp be proclaimed. The havoc of the grave,
1 fl : vcre in itfelf, would be rendered doubly
| severe, if it were to exclude the commemor
| ation of departed virtue.
. Jaquemel Ambler had passed the 55th
year of his age; without a blemish to his re
putation; without an enemy; with numer
. oils friends. Adored by his family, he has
: al.moft consoled them for his lofij, by the
> conviction, that he has not goire too early
for himfelf, and that he was mature in char
' after.
' Notwithstanding the constant exposure
of an official man to the displeasure of others
t by the impartiality of his conduct, even
those, who went away from him unindulged
t in their applications, were fatisfied by aeon
-1 tidence in the purity ofhis motives. His
' public cjreer for nearly tweuty years was a
e series of tcftimony to this truth.
Drawn from the peaceful walks of life in
r -to public aftion, without a solicitation, or
e a wifli previoudy expressed, he was chosen
5 by the legislature to three important offices
during the revolution and since the peace.
;■ his lad, that of Treasurer, presented for
thirteen years, to malice, envy, or enmity,
g had they existed against him, an annual op
-0 portunity of gratification, and yet be was
annually he h d unre
' mittingly (hewn his fitnefs for the office.
His fatal disorder put human nature on the
rack; but he bore his agonies with every
■ firmnefs, of which human natuie was capa
ble; cherished, strengthened and animated
j by the divine glow of Christianity; and
ing to his view. The poor scarcely knew
the hand, from which they so often felt
j relief.—Afld those who were his dependants
.. in servitude could not but own how their
condition was foftened by the kindness of
_ their master. If philosophy and religion
d produce this excelleuce, go reader, and im
e itate him, who is now lamented, not for
_ himfelf, but for those he has left behind.
CHARLESTON, Jan. 9.
1 Letters were yesterday received by the ship
Polly, capt. Rowland, from the mo!t ref
pedtable Mercantile houses in Bilboa, ftat-
ing, that an immense number of French
Freebooters infeft the Spanilli coasts, and
j capture all American vessels, without dif-
crimination, rsgardlefs of their papers, even
j the celebrated role d'eqaipage; in those ca-
fes, which the Americans have taken the
precaution to provide themselves with this
paper; they are taken from them and de
stroyed, and they are afterwards carried ia
and condemned for want of them.
i KINGSTON, (Jam.) December 30.
c Areport, has been prevalent thefc three
- days, but how brpt wec»nr)ot fay, rtating
that the brigands Bid attacked St. Marc's,
» br«n rcpulfed. It is said that the
feint,they lately made of attacking the Mole,
was merely for the purpose of drawing the
' JJritifh forces to that fortrefs, in order to
leave St. Marc's unprote£ted, in that they
> fuccedecl, as considerable reinforcements
r were sent thither from St. Marc, L'Arca
-1 haye, and other places, but (till fufficient
e force was left there to defend the place,
• which has been done with great gallantry.
FALMOUTH, January 3.
» Friday arrived the fchr. Friendfliip,
- Selleck, from New-York, last from Port au
• Paix, into which place /he was carried by a
- French privateer of one gun and twenty
men, who plundered her of the greater part
of her cargo, confiding of provifioire and
lumber, and condemned the veffe4 ; the
- captain, however, went immediately to Cape
• Francois by land, and dated his cafe to the
• Black Commandant Touiffant, who recei
ved him politely, and gave him orders for
> the restoration of his vefTel. She was ori- '
gin ally consigned to John Cunningham,
! Esq. of Montego Bay. The Captain in- !
forms, that a number of American vessels, '
which had been condemned with their car- 1
goes, by the Robber Santhonax, had been 1
' set at liberty by Gen. Touiffant, whose
' regard for justice and humanity had render
ed him popular, und obtained him many
■ friends.
... <
BALL. <
Mr. Byrne's fourth Ball will be on Tuef- '
day evening next 30th Jan. at Oellers's ''
Hotel. G«ntlemens' tickets at one dollar
each, to he had at the Hotel. Ladies'
tickets to be had of Mr. and Mrs. Byrne,
No. 114 North 6th Street.
Tuition as usual.
Jan. 27. 3 t
Flax Seed for Sale.
' Apply to GEO. DOUSON,
No. is South Third ilrett.
J»"- *'• dtf c
Genteel Boarding and Judging, c
7o be had at a moderate price—inquire at t
No. 138, Arch-street. t
jiii, 7, j. diw
o
Surveyor General's Office. e
December 1, 1797. '
ON a relcafe of furvcy of 433 acres, 68 perches d
of land, fuuaie in lower Smithhrld townftip si
Northampton county, itirvefd to WUiiam Wills, 0
pr warrant of 2d March, 1786, the Deputy Sur
vejor hath made the following note, vi^,
Thi- land claimed by heirs as J.ewis Gordon and
Oenrpe l aylor, not koowo by what right.—Cer- '1
tified for Daniel Broatihead, Lftj, su r veyur Gene- n
ral—William Pai Iter.
- Ihe firtt Monday in Marih next is appointed for l
a hearin* of tnaparties on til • a' ove c veat, or any
others uittreflet! or concerned therein, they having P
lat Icafl tU:ity days noiirc (or John Ha.l, -Secretary
!of the Land Oifice. , ' 2
A. L'tfborot'fh.
Ja&iiry §Jj.'i«tm
| SJ:t onsettf»
I PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVENING, JAX VART 29.
lyta t/un ity,
•- &* s ' :; p
J
*• - .\' —• • -.*• <■
e -Fi/fA Congress of the United States :
AT THE SECOND SESSION,
" Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia,
in the State of Pennsylvania, on Mon-
V day, the thirteenth of November, one
thousand seven Mkndred and ninety,-
f?ven.
AN A£T
)r 70 amend the several ABs for laying duties on
n Spirits diflifled within the United States, und
" s on Stills.
BE it enaded by the Senate ar.d Iloufe of
Representatives of the United States of
America, in Congress ajfembled, That from.
J ~ and after the puffing of tkis Aft, it (hall
be lawful for all owners of ftiils within the
United States, which (hall have been duly
t- entered according to law, to make their e
'e ledion, at any time of the year, both as to
y the rase of duty which they may chufe to
~ pay for the employment of their said ftiils,
; whether, for a year, or for such other Sor
ter period, as may be allowed by law ; and
also, as to the time, of commencing such
j V employment.
: ' JONATHAN QEYTON,
, S Speaker of the use of Reprrfintatives.
TH: JEFFERSON,
Vice Prefulent of the States,
" and Prefulent of the Senate.
1 Approved—January 29th, 1728,
' r JOHN ADAMS,
Prefdent of th United States.
Deposited among the rolls in the office of
p the Department of State.
[•_ Timothy Pickering, Secretary of State.
t
[j ExtraS of a letter from a citizen of the Unit
d ed States, dated at Amjlerdam, 25th 080-
f_ ber 1797.
, n " I find Holland in general in a tranquil
situation, both with regard to politicks and
ie trade: while I was at Rotterdam the adtion
; 8 was fought between the fleets which termi
.. nated in the defeat of the Dutch fleet with
a the loss of 10 ships of the line: no naval ac
tion was evet fought harder, or ended in a
more compleat victory ; the relidue of the
fleet has reached the Texel, and the govern
;e ment is preparingto refit it,yet this must be a
„ work of time, in the mean time, the naval
s dominion of England is uneoutroulable by
i e ■ any power. TheconveHtieu-are engaged in
forming a new constitution, which will be
ie ' brought forward in the course of the win
c ter; at present the government may be said
y to be completely under the influence of
ts F rance > though that influence cannot move
it to adts of violence, nor will the great
mass of the people be turned from a cpol
ar >d steady attention to their intcrefts: in
forming a peace I do not undertake to fay
how far the independence of the country will
be deftroyedby France or England, but I
3) rather think its trade and existence as a cen
j. tcr of wealth and exchange is so necessary
a to Europe in general, that no measures will
y betaken materially to injure them by either
-t P ar ty !, the war has already done immense
d '"jury t» the country, particularly to Am
e fterdam, by diverting its 'radeto Hamburgh
e yet this.must eventually return and I cannot
c but think tnat the very advantageous situa
tion of both Airifttrdam and Rotterdam
will forever insure great business to them
both." ___
A gentleman of this city, just arrived
from Charleston, informs, that he there saw
a letter addressed to citizen Godard, late
chancellor of the French consulate in that
city, by citizen Maneonrit, dated Paris,
November 9. In this letter, citizen Man
. gourit informs citizen Godard, that he is
f appointed miiftfter plenipotentiary of'the
French republic to the United Btates, and
. only waits the termination of the conferen
ces with the American commissioners, to
set out for the place of his defoliation. He
g also requests citizen Godard, to proceed to
r Philadelphia, and there wait his arrival.
» (Morn. Pap.)
INFORMATION.
Don Carlos Martinez. De Truji,
Knight of the royal and distinguished order
of Charles the third, his Catholic Maief
ty's Envoy Extraordinary and Minister
Plenipotentiary to the United States of ,
America.
Whereas the government of Caracas has ! ■
opened the ports of said province for the im- 1
portation in Neutral bottoms of certain arti- ! ,
, cleaof provisions and dry goods, (agreeable l
to the hit deposited with his catholic majef- ! -
ty's consul general in this city, and with all' ,
. other Spani(h consuls throughout the Unit- j ,
ed States) under the express condition that -
the returns of said articles are to be in pro- ,
duce of the said province. Now, there 1
fore,. Ido hereby give this public notice, in : 1
order that such pcrfcns as may be inclined
to trade to Caracas may avail themselves 1
thereof, informing ihem at the fame time, I t
that it will be abfolujely necessary to be fur- j y
nifhed with a paffpo/t frttm me, for those 1 (
vessels which fail from Philadelphia, or from j ,
his catholic majesty's consuls ir. the other ]
ports of the United States.
Given under my hand in Philadelphia,'the j
27th day of Jannary, 1798.
(Signed)
Don Casios Martinez De Yrvjo. *
iint.-TENNO. ■> . . , v
Obfei*virtg in the Aurora of this morning j
a refutation of the charge made a few days
ago in the fan*: paper, agsinfl. Mr. Picke
ring, accompanied by a deposition of a cer
tain Thomas Wo'.herlpoon, in which my
name is mentioned asexpreffingdoubts about
the validity of the certificate and pafifport
given by the Secretary of Hate to that gen
tleman, I will thank you (should you pub
lifli the refutation aad dopofitiou above allu
ded to) to insert with it this note, declaring
that I qever expressed to Doctor Reynolds
any doubts about the validity of Mr. Wo
therfpoon's -certificate or protedtion, or any
Wvifh to fee cithfer of them ; and that if any
converfaiion of that kind took place between
Dr. Reynolds & Mr. Wotherfpoon it was
* entirely without my privity <?r conferit, &
thatDjv Rcyjoelds never had any kind of
authority from me to ask fbra fight of the _
papers, which affections I can further itate
have been declared by Dodtor Reynoldshim- i
feif to. be true 1 his morning in the presence
of a gentleman of the firft rtfp. dt ib'litv.
WILLIAM H. TOD.
Jan- 26th, 1798.
Thofetprinters who may publish the de
pofitiou, are rcquelted to give this also a
place in their papers. /
The holders of the note?, accep- L
tances.'endorfenients and other engagements
f of Edward Fox, for account of James
Greenleaf, arc hereby notified, that Wed
t nefday, the 14th February next, is the Lit '
1 day, on whiqh rliey can admit fubferiptions
to the fund afiigned to them for the pay- N
' r mentef said engagements ; and that those 0
holders, who do not on or before that day
( make their fubferiptions, will be excluded
from' the benefit thereof.
Henry Pratt, tl
T. W. Francis, , si
John Miller, jun.
John /Jbley,
Jacob Baker.
Jan. 39. dtf
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
The (hip Favorite, Thompson, from
hence to Hamburgh, was spoke the lOth
ult. in lat. 41 20, long. 64 24, out 5 days
all well.
The schooner Polly; Forfyth, of this
port, has arrived at New-York, from Cape
" Nichola Mole.
The ftiip Hope, Benbridge, of this port,
has arrived at Cape-Nichola-Mole, from
' Bourdeaux. !
' The ftiip adtive, Rose, of this port, feat a ,
1 into New-Providence, some time fincc, on
■ her passage home, from the Havanna, is 0
1 cleared, but the principal part of her cargo
" condemned, the aftive was to fail for this
1 port about the 20th inft.
The sloop Polly, Baker, for St. Vincents
left the fort on Sunday last, fame night j
1 was drove ashore, on Tinnicum ifiand,
I where vessel and most part of her cargo j
r are loft.
1 ;
Charlejlon, January 10.
Yesterday arrived the (hip Mary, White, 1
!_ London,sodays; spoke fchr. Clara, W. N. j
Williams, of Baltimore, from Petit Guavc, j
; bound to Baltimore, 55 days out, in great
distress.
The brig Paddy, O'Drifcoll, and ship
1 South-Carolina, Robinfoß, were to fail
' from London, for this port, about 14 davs
' after the Mary.
The Fame, Jones, and th* Knight Mor
ley, had atrived at Hamburg, from this i
' port.
Capt. Smith, of the (hip Rainbow, late- in
ly belonged this poit, which has lately been ' 111
condemned in France for want of role d'e- cc
quipage, came paflenger in the Mary.
.The (hip Charlotte, Lindfay, which was n:
carried into Nantz, it was thought would p!
be condemned. te
The Jun»>, Walker, which was carried in- ,
to France, it was supposed would be cleared
though the captors had destroyed the role of
d'equipage, the owner who was in France, so
had received a copy from America, which m
would be the me ns of clearing her.
Sunday the 27th December last, the fchr.
Cato, captain Marden, failed from this port
for St. Augustine. On Wednesday follow
ing (he anchored off Augustine. Bar. but
the wind rising high, (he was driven from her .
anchor into the Gulfftieam, and on the
29th was captured by the British frigate
Andromeda, capt- Hall. The passengers a
in the schooner, viz. John Hopkins, esq. of
Columbia in this (late, Mr. Le Clufe, M.
Gugal, Mr. Rucord, Mr. Pottier and Mr.
Biles* were taken on board of the frigate,
and detained until the 31ft when they were
put on board the brig Sally, of New-York
from Jamaica, which landed them in Savan- Co
nah the 3d instant. Mr. Sanchez and Mr. -Oi
Sullivan two otl|?r passengers, were detain- yt '
,ed in the frigate. Capt. Marden was sent a "
j in the schooner to New-Providence, where
it is though (he will be condemned, as (be " o 'f
, had powder and other contraband articles cli.
| on board.
Mr. Hopkins, whose letter furnifhes us
, with this account, speaks very favorably of 10
the treatment received from the captain and
officers of the frigate; all their baggage
was given them, and when they were sent ihe
off they were furnifhed with one, week's du
provision, and spirits fufficient to lad until reli
they got to Savannah. Du
The fame frigate, a few days before, eap. ,V IC
tured the brig Samuel, of Baltimore, cap
tain \ oung, fiom the Havannah, loaded w j]
with sugar, and sent her for Providence, is
Capt. Young is detained on board the sri- ty,
gate ; he expedted his cargo tvould be con- no(
demned, and his vessel cleared.
• II3J
Coppper for Sheathiag,
For Sate, by
, SIMON WALKER,
Pin:-Jlre:t, rear Fifth.
V 'lt'll ■
? I new-theatrf:
;s ,
•• THIS evening,
•' > JANUARY 29,
l* r il! /.(? prtftuttj, the favorite Trnredf of
;[ THi<; FAIR PENITENT!
t liciolto, M r . Warren
■ _ Altamont, Mr. Fox
Horat:o, Mr. Fennell
l*otLari6» Mr. Moreton
| s • Rolfano, Mr. J. Warrell
j_ Caliila, Mrs. Merry
Lapina, Mrs. Francis
l.ilcilla, Miss L'Eftrange. ,
' After which ('.r that night only), will be rcviv
n ed, the favorite Pantomime Entertainment
ls comprtlL-fi iuro cne as, rf of
* Robinson Crufoe,
Or, RltDAY's DELIVERANCE.
IC 't. ■
e jraST PUBLISHED,
l- And to be fald by WILLIAM WOODHOUSE,
■ c No. 6, foutli firecc, Phii*d.'i;>liia,
The Young Chemist's Pocket
Companion ;
MKSJNfCTCD WITH
- A PORTABLE LABORATORY :
i CONTAINING
A Pbi!of*pb;cal Apparatus, and a <rreat twmber of Che
mical Agents ;
_ By which any pcrfun may perform an endless va
riety cf atnufing and inftru&ing experiments ;
S intended to promote the cultivation of the Sci-
S e nee of Chemittry,
UY WILLIAM H'OCDBOVSE, M. D.
t ™ ir 'f e j} (,r °f Cbmnjity in ilm U-i4<vj jity of Ftn/tfylva
s > &*■'■
AT PR ES -NT E izjit TOZMO THAT IS NOT DE •'
' NOMINATFD CUI Ml STil V r \ 3 BUT A SUALL PART
t' OF A SYSTEM OF N . TbK.VL KNOWLSDGI.
y Priefttty on Air.
j THE chest conn-itcd with this book is one loot
and a half Jon":, ore foot bread, and about the
famch i£ht. It coilifh of two 'its Ihe
upper ore contains twenty twol ottics filled with the
following tcifrs, in a - pure a.ftatc &s poifible.
1. Sulphuric acid
2. Nitric stvri
3. jMbriati: »eid
4. Carbonic acid
Oxalic acid
6. Aclohol of galls
7* Solution o' pot aih
8. Pot ash in powder
9. Ammoniac
10. Solution of the iulphate of. iron
11. Solution of the fulphateof copper
12. Solution of mercury in the nitric acid
n 13. Solution of fi'.vcr in the nitric acid
h 14. Solution of corrosive sublimate
s 15. Solution cf the acetate of lead
16. Solution of arsenic
„l?. Solution of the muriated barytes
18 Sulphate of inagnsfia
c 19. Lime water
ao. Pr«fliat«of lime
9 21. Prufliate of pot afli
n 22. Ammoniate of copper
The lower apartment is a drawer, in which the
1 philcfophical apparatus is placed, and a number of
t agents folded up in paper, as
1 1. Strips of paper ftaincd blue by the tin Sure
s of litmus
| 2. Litmus paper turned red in an acid
» 3. A small bag, containing genuine litmus
4. Paper, dyed yellow by turmeric
5. 1 urmeric paper, turned brown by an alkali
s 6. Paper, dyed red by Brazil wood
I 7. Brazil wood paper, stained purple by an al
kali
9 ; 8. Zinc, in small pieces
3 9. Copper, in small pieces
10. lead
11. Iron filings
12. Sulphate of copper
13* Nitrate of copper
' , 14- Muriate of ammoniac
• » 15. Acetatecf lead
, ! 16 Carbonate of. lime
t 17. Sulph.uf
The Apparatus conCfts of
5 j I • Glass fyj.hor.s
2 a blow-pipe, of tin, copper, or silver
! 3- a magnet *
s 4. au inflammable air pistol
5. a glass funnel
6. A .meafurc for liquids
s 7- A fniall peftlc and mortar
8. Sca!-s awi weights
xhe book is a duodecimo of 56 pages; contain
- ing a method of performing one hundred experi
l < me ats, the great -r part of which are made in a
- common wine-glass, and many of which are the
; most brilliant which in the science of Che»
! miflrjr. An explanation is given of the pheaome
■> na which tike place in each experiment, and a sim-
L p:e manner is laiJ down ot preparing most of tile
tell i when expeuded.
Ijy of tlus Chemical Companion and Port
j Laboriitorr, gentlemen who have not had an
opportunity of attending mi experimental course
of Ghomiitry, may inftruit thenifelves, and per
, form, with the great s flcaf t , the celebrated exjeri
-1 «nenEs ot Prieillty, Prnutt, Bergman, Sch'telc,
Maccjusr, and the firft Chemists of the age
January nn&t 3 t
JUST PUBLISHED
AND TO BE BY
James Humphreys,
. 4t No. 74, North Third-Jlrcet, the corner of
Cherry-alley,
(Prireone Dollar neatlv bound and lettered)
L An ENQUIRY into the DUTIES of the;
Female Sex.
By THOMAS GIsBORNE, n. M.
The following among oth;r» are the principal
SHbjeds of this uieful Work.
Female Education. Of toe mode of intreduc
<"3 Young Women into general Society. Female
Lor.ferfation and Fpt/lolary Correspondence.
Dref. Amujements. Excj's in the pursuit of
Amusements. Employment of "lime. Consider
ations antecedent to marriage. Duties of mat
rimonial Life, qvith a view to different Situation*
and CircUmJlances. Parental Duties. Duties
of the middle period ofLiJe. Duties of the De
cline of Life.
: iJ" ' rom the title of the foregoing work it
rmy perhaps be imagined, that the Enquiry is
altogether and exclufivtly di<~ecle(l to the duties
of the I'eixiale Sex : It therefore, may noL by tn»
tie.* Cuury, or unufelul f to remark, that many of
ihe chapters contain matter relative tu the con
dufl or huh fexss, and partirulaciv those which
relateto thcdarits of" Matrimonial Life —Parental
Duties—Duties of the Middle l\riod—and tft"
the Decline id Life.— Aod the rea.'er of eithef
lex thjt peruses this work with a view of gain
ing information leading to ftibilantial pleasure,
will assuredly not be djfappointed. fn it
i? a work interesting to the happiness of socie
ty, and must beufetul wherever read j tending
not only to ptwutout in easy and engaging lan
guage, the paths that lead the youthful mind to
happiness and comfort, hut those also, in the
walk oj which, the parent 3nd the middle period
oflifcihall find lir.cerc delight,, and declining
years render thenifelves comfortable and happy
with all ar.:und thm.
Ft Hid. Jail. 39. *jt
/PROPOSALS
for v( 4T -!
CARRIINS 57fE F JBt.IC MsIILS by' 6
on the fallowing Poit Roads will b: re- ;
ceivcJ at the Gjneral Port Office until , r
t'ae :4th day of February next iuclufive. 1,0
arriv
rzNXsrr.vANiA, &*. r l^v
f • From Philadelphia by Newc*.- anc j a
tic, Ca»nr well's bri'i%c, Duck creefc, Dover, Fr *J
en-4, Milford, Cl« Pagftor TVn,
Snwhifl, and Accomic court houfc to j ll<T , (
Northampton court houfc three iijttfs a \tfpek. r | c
JfriS Ito Novtmbsr IJ- l eave Phi!-.-lelphia ev- Lc
try 't'ucl'.'.ay, Thursday and Saturday at a a M,and r jy c ;
arrri?e at ?-jor thamj>toa court houfc on rhufday, tone
Saturday and Monday 1-75 P Vl ■ Returning. Leave
Nortl ampton.court house every Ftiiiy, MotrJay 011 f A
a-vi Wed*cf<hy at l a M, end arrive ::t Philadcl- t
pi.;.; on Monday, Wednesday i'i4 Friday by 7 »-* )no<v
P M , . Jf 1
AW*5«- nlt April,i. Lcava sJtt«dclphi» ev- , 9
erf »~t|ofl y, Thursday and Saturday at 6 am, an( j >
and arrive at Northampton court house on Friday, Le
Mwday aid Wednesday by 7 p *• at W
Leave Northampton court ho»'.'c erery Saturday,
Tuefdiy pad Thursday at 6a m, arrive at Lrav
Philadelphia on Wednesday, Friday and Monday at w
ty ;PM. rlve
VIRGINIA. „ ;
1. From Northampton court house to Norfolk 10
th*« timet a week. Greei
Atril t I. NovenAer IS- l-e*ve Northampton t0 Ki
court houfi every Monday, Wednesday and rri- i-e
day at 8p m, and arr ve at Norfolk in 24 hours. r i ve •
Suum'.n?—Leave Norfolk every Wednesday, Fri- Moss
day and Mondays 4 a m, and arrive at Northamp-, day!
I Oil c lift house in twenty four hour*. ry Su
A'e-ituier 15 to April I. Leave Northampton by 3
Mart houfc every Tuesday. Thtrfday and Saturday and a
at t.* m, and arrive at Norfolk in t4 h®uf«. Re
iu '..eave Norfolk every Monday. Wed act- „
r'ay and Friday by 4 am, and arrive at Northamp- 01lce
toacourt house in 24 hours. Le
PKNNSYLV AMI A MARYLAND■ a rr:v
3. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, N-w- jng _
port,Chriftiana.Middletown,Warwick andGoerge- arl i v
town cri.fi roads toChefterftown three timesa wee*. „
Miy Ito November I. Leave Philadelphia every an( J 5
.Sunday,Tuefd.y and Thursday by 9p », ardar- Le
rve at Cheftertown the next days by 8r m. Re- m d a
turning —Leave Cheftertov.-n every Monday, Wed- R etu
nefday and Friday by 9r m, and arrive at.Phila- nOBIt
delphia the next days by 8 p m. 23
November I to May I. Leave Philadelphia eve- tofrs,
ry Monday and Friday by 9 a m, and arr»vs at j houf
* Chelleitown on Tu.fday aud Saturday by 4 Le
jfctunixg—Leave Cheftertown every Monday and m, ai
Friday by 8 am, and arrive at Philadelphia on A M ,
Tuesday and Saturday by 4 r "• York
MARYLAND. Lear
4. From Cheftertown by Centerville, Eafton, a t T;
Newmarket, Vienna, Salisbury, Inowhill and Prin- a* Fi
tefs Ann to SaliHwry once a week. !■<
Receive the nuil at Cheftertown every Wedncf- houfi
Hay at 7A M, arrive at Eaftoh by 4' «• Lea *f ham
Fallon on Thursday by 6 a m, arrive at Snowhill J.a D c
on Friday by Iv. M, and at Princds Ann by 6p. Lc
m. Return'""*— LeavePrincefs Ann on Saturday by a rriv
to am, arrive at Eaftoti'the ne*t day or Monday am.
by 6p m Leave Eallon on Tuelday by 8 a m,and ery
a»rive 3t Cheftertown fame day by .4 p m. no«i
5. From Hwfotd by Bel-Air to she Black horfc 2.
oivc* a week. 1
Leave Harford every Tuesday by 10 Am, apd j Li
strive ar Black horse by 6 pm. Returning~-V.eave I and
Black horie on Wcdnrfday by 6 a m, And arrive at ' m.
Harfotd the neat Tuesday by 9 a m. at. 8
PENNSYLVANIA, MARYLAND ar y d VIR- day
GINIA. 1
6. From Baltimore by Blackhorfe toYorktown hou
Pa. once a weiti. . "'"i 1
I e;vf Baltitt.ore every Friday by 4 r "> » rnvc L
at Blackhorfe on Saturday by 10 a m, andarnve r ive
at Yorktown by 8 P«• Returning—Leave York- Lea
town every Thursday by 7a m, and arrive at Bal- Stai
timore on Friday noon. Lea
7. From Yorktown By Hanover, Peterlburg, cii;
Taneyton ard Fredericktown to Leefburg once a mo ,
week. .2
Le*ve Yorktown every Monday at 8 a m,arrive g W)
at Fredericktown on Tutfdsy by 5f m, sndarnve yyc|
at Leelburj; on Wednesday by 2p m. Returning— j
I eave I.eelburgevery FViday at itoon, and arrive
at Yorktown by 6 p m on Sunday. f
B.Trom Yorktown by Abbotflown,Gettilburg,
Fairfield, Elizabethtown, Williaiufport, Martini
lurg, Winchefttr, Stevenfburg and Stralburg to _
Wvodilock once a week. .
Leave Yorktown every Sunday by noon, arrive "»
at Martinfburg on Tuefdjy by II am. Leave a
Martinfburg on Tuesday nbon and arrive at Wood- a *
floik on Wednesday by 6p m. Returning— Leave J
Woodfiock on Thursday by 6a m, arrive at Mar- M.
tir.fbury on Fiiday by 11 a m, and arrive at York- P
town on Sunday by n a m. Tu
9. From Pittfburg by Cannmfburg, Walhing- on
ton. Weft Liberty and Wheeling tfli the month of .
Fiibing creek once a week (contrail for one year | ett
ohfy.) ... 1 or
leave Fittfburg, every Friday at 9a m, and ar- j
l ive at Fifhine creek 011 Sunday at 9a m . Return■ arr
w—Leave i iftihrg creek on Wednesday at 8a m, on
ini arrive at Pi'tlburg on Friday at 8a m. Ta
10. From Waii.ingtop by BroWnsville and Union r j y
to Morgantown once a week;
Leave Ur.ion every Frit ay at 6 a m, and arrivi
at Wafhipgton by 6 pm. Lei»e Walhington on
Saturday at 6 am, arrive at Morgantown on Sun
day at 6p M. Leave Morgantown 011 Monday at Lj
8 am, andanive at Union by jpm.
ij. Frcm Baltimore by Fredericktown, Eliza- ari
bctht'own, Greenyattle and Chamber&urg to Ship- M >
penfburg'once a wetk. " n
Leave Baltimore every Friday by 11 am, arrive Li
at Fredericktown on Saturday by 10 am, attli- rn
zabethtown in the evening, and at Shippenfburg E<
Oil Monday by 7' "• Returning— Leave Shippenf- Ri
bur-r every Tuesday at 9 a m, arrive at Eliaabeth
town at Bpm ,at Fredericktown on Wednesday til
noon, and at Baltimore on Thursday by Jm.
MARYLAND- ' a.
11. From Eliiabethtown by Hancock and Old- R
town to Cumberland oncea week. M
LeaveCumbeiland every Saturday by 6 a M.and
arrive at Elizaicthtown cn Monday by 8 a m. t ;
Helvr".':*" —I.eave Elizibethtown every Monday by .
10 a mT and arri.'C at Cumberland on Tuesday by v
6 pm- ~ v
1 \ From Baltimore to Annapolis once a week. a
Leave Baltimore every Monday at 8 a M,,and
arrive at Am apolis by jP ». Return,ngr-lx.ave ,
Annapolis every Tuesday at 8a m, and arrive at q
Baltimore by 5 P m
-14. From Baltimore by Annapoln, Queen Ann',
Upper Marlborough,Pifcataway.Perttobacco, «.l
lensfrelh, Newport and Chaptico to Leonardtown ®
once a week 1
Leave Baltimore every Friday at 10 a m, arrive '
at \nnapolU at 5p m. Leave Annapolit ort Sa- I
turday at 6 am, arrive at Upper Marlborough
by noon.arrive atPifcataw3y by 6 P m. It arrive at
Leonardtown every Monday forenoon by gq'clock. 1
Return!^— Leave Leonardtown every Monday-It 3 1
vm, arrive at Pifcataway on Tuesday by 6p si v
arrive at Upper Marlborough on Wednclday by
j I \m, and . ltive at Annapolis by 6p M. Leave ''
,\r,iupol>i on Thursday by 7 a m, and arrive at #
, . Biltimoreby3P m. (
'ls. Fropa dnnapolis by Lower Marlborough,
Huntington and Calvert court house to St. Leon- s
; rds once a week.
leave Annapoli-' every Saturday at 9a u, and ,
arrive at St. Leonards on Monday by .) pm. Re'- J
, ,„, t_Leave St. Leonards every Monday at 4 j
r 4, and arrive at Annapolis the next Saturday by
C » *
it. Erom Blad:r.ft jrg by Upper Marlborough, t
NA i" :r I.fw: OdWi, Li
ft j a a-.d -.-i. >■' en 2
I Lrav, Bhr! n'V.-• v-rv S , ( uH .y KV * ff'™
riv- r.r Upper Marl'i. ro.r-K by iu>&*nu r •>'
M .r.d»yf; 5 r ft it Chup » - *
by (■ rm. v £ vr,. -;-Le,.-( haptico- veryl ht f. ;
!iy at 6 am, and arrive at BlaJenlbu.g 011 Sa ,
day at 6 a M. . f.e
17 From OeirvgerVwo by' Montgomery tout rj . ur
house to Frtd;rirktown ones a week. , p 0 !!_
Leave Oeorgeto-r* every Friday f>y 6 a | ;
arrive« Fredericktown by Ar m IjUlurut
Leave Fjedeiicitoivn every I PJ Ja>, Oi'wig
and arrive at Geort etowp by ft p m. every
VlVtarhiA. , . day :
18. From Woodftock by Newmirket, Rnc.<ing- A >VI
lja-n court hoafe, Staunton, Lexington andl'incat- Thu ,
tie to Bi? Lick once a week. every
Leave Woodftock every Thursday ty 6 a 1.1. s , p
rive atJStauntou on Friday at IP". "
ton every Friday at X Pm, arrive a' big Lie* on ,j.k
Sunday by II a m. Returning—Leave Big Lick
0,1 e.u-.day by IP M, arrive at Staunton every I uej- 39
d.yliy 11 a m. Leave Stauntoßi J»T ** 0
)noon) Slid ar.iv, at Wood loek on Wednesday bv
5 \o '. Fromßig Liekby Monfgom ry courthouse
and Wj the cou. I house to Abin-jdon once a week. "
Leave Big Litk every Sand#; at Ip m, arrive •
at Wythe co'irt houfs on TuefJay by 2p m, aad at p r i n(
Abingdon on Wednef.hy by 6r m. Returning— (o £ .
Leave Abmgd. «i every Thursday by 6a m, an'ive L(
at Wythe court house on Friday by 2 pm, and ar- s , E
rive at Big Lick on Sunday b> II am. tone
TENNESSEE. on S
10. From Abingden, Vir. by Jonefoarough 4 ,
1 Gieenville,Moffat's store andjefferfon court houle ton i
to Knoxvilie once a week. i Heli'
Leave Abingdon every Thurf-day by 6 a m, afr- | mou
rive at Moffusftore on Saturday by 8 a m. Leave Leav
Moffat-, by 9a m, and arrive at Knoxvilie 0:1 Sun- rive
; day by 10 am. Returning—Leav: Knoxvilie eve- 4i
ry Sunday by ar m, arrive at Moffats on Monday w 'l
by 3r m. Leava Moffats on Monday at 4p m, . l
and arrive at Abingdon on Wednesday by 7p m. ' ,l *
VIRGINIA- p l^.
21. From Winchcftcr by Romney to Mo.orfirlds
o»ce a week. q x (,
Leave Winchester every Tl.urfday at 6a h, and !ooi
arrive at M3orfield*n Friday by 6 PM. Return
ing—Leave Moorfield every Saturday at 8 a M,and f iOII
arrive at Winchester 011 Sunday by 6 PM. w ce
%%. From Alexandria by Centerville, Leefburg L
and Shepherdftown to Martinfburg once a week. Wt
Leave Alexandria every Wednesday at 9a m, Wei
and arrive at Martinlburg on Friday by 10 am. P 1
Returilng—Leave MartinJburg every Fridsy by Cha
nooirSc arrive at Alexandria on Monday by 7a m. Cha
23. From Frederickfbburg by Port Royal, Lay- on
torß. Tappahaonock, Urbanria and Gloureller court <
i houO to Yorktown once a week. pj j j
Leave Frederickfburg every Wednesday at 6 a
m, arrive at Tappahannock on Thursday by 11 cov .
a ml. Leave Tappahannock at noon and arrive at .
YorkV»vn on Saturday by iiam. Returning— wn
Leave Yorktown every Saturday ati PM, artive J
at Tappahannock the next Monday noon and arrive 4r)< j
at Fredericklkurg on Tuesday by 5 PM. Lea
24. From Rappahannock by Richmond court 3[ ,d
house, Weftntoreland courthouse,
ham thurch' and Northumberland court house to tor,
Lancaster court house one'e a week- tanl
Leave Tappahannock every Thursday noon and 1
arrive it Laucafter courthouse ch Saturday by 11 '' vc
AM. Returuing—LeayeLancaller court hftuie ov r Spa
ery Saturday by 1P M. alul arrive atTappahin- ! Ivt
no«k on Monday byn a m. , '
25. From Fredfrickfburg by Culjpeper court cp j
house &Orangec. h. to Charlottefvilleouce a w;eek< . '
Leave Fretjerjckiburg every Tuelday at 10 a m,
: I and arrive at Charlottefville on Thursday by 11 a
: m. Retutiiuig—Ltave Charldttefville on Saturday
at 8 PM, and arrive at Fredericklhnrg on
■ day by 6a m. J
26. £coin Richraoad by Googhlancl eourt- arr
i house Colarhbli arfd Cliarlottcfville to Stauntoo fat
ortce a week. • P V
: Leave Ricfcmond every Tuesday at 1 p m, nr
: rive at CJharlmtefviHE on TTiurfday by 11 A »t.
- Leave Charlottefville bv noon and arrive at
" Staunton on Friday by 11 AM. Returning — 0
Leave Staunton os Saturday by 6A M, arrive at rjv
Cliarjottefviile by 7 pM, and irrive at Rich- hi
1 mond the next Tuesday by 9 A M. at
27. Fram Staunton by Bath court-house and
c Sweet ipirngs to GreSnbrier court-houle once a J air
e 1 ~ « toi
week. ,
~ Leave Stiunton every Saturday at 6 A M,and 0
c arrive at Greenbrier court-houfeon Tuesday by
6 pm. Returning—Leave Greenbrier court-
houfe every Monday by 9 am, and arrive at a[j
0 Staunton on Thursday by 8 p m.
28. From Charlottefvile by Warren, War- co
e minster, New-Market, Amherft eourt house, go
e Cabellfburg, and Maddilbn to Lynchburg once m
1. 3 week.
e Leave Charlottefville every Thuridiy at I P ' r
•- M. and arrive at Lynchburg on Saturday at 6 1
> P M. Returning—Leave Lynchburg every 01
Tuesday by 6 a m, and arrive at Charlottefville w
;- on Thursday by 10 A M.
29. From Richmond by Hancvertown, Ay- at
ir letts and Todds tq Tappahannock once a week m
or if carried in stages as often as they fhaU run. bi
r * Leave Richmond every Wednef4ay at 5 A M,
*" arrive at Todds at 3p m, and at Tappahannock
'• on Thursday al 11 AM. Returning—Leave lo
Tappahannock on Mondiy at 1 P M, and ar- w
m rive at Richmond on Tuesday by j pm. r j
30. From Richmond by Hopkins's, Powha-
vt tan court house, Cumberland court house, Prince
Edward court house and Lynchburg to New
at London, once a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 8 A M, C (
a . arrive at Prince Edward on Wednesday at 6 P G
m, and arrive at Lynchburg on Fridsy at 8A M, si
' and at Kew-London by 10 AM. Returning— j b
Leave New-London every Friday at 2 P m, 0
li- rive at Lynchburg by 5 P M, arrive at .Priace s
rg Edward on Saturday by 7 PM, and arrive at p
nf- Richtnond on Monday by 4 P M. c ,
th 31. Frcm New-London by Liberty to Fincaf- 5
lay tie once a week.
Leave New London every Friday at I P M, 0
antfarrive at Fincaftle on Saturday by 6 pm.
Id- Returning—Leave Fincaftle on Monday at 5 A '
M, and arrivcat New London on Tuesday noon.
ln d 32. From Liberty by Rocky Mount to Mar- T
"• tinvillc once in two weeks.
Leave Liberty every other Saturday at 6. A
°y M, and arrive at Martinville o.f Sunday by 6 P t
, m. Leave Martinville on Monday by 6A M, |
' and arrive at Liberty on Tuesday by 6 pm. t
an 3j, From Princ« Edward court house by *
' Charlotte court hpufe to Halifax court house
once a week. :
LMvePrinceEdwaHcourthoufecveryThurf- '
«[j day at 6A M, and arrive at Helifox court house '
)Wn 011 Fiiday at 10 AM. Returning—Leave Hal
ifax courthouse onFndaybv 1 1* M, and ar
rive riye at Prince Edward court house on Satartlay
Sa- by 6P M.
ugh VIRGINIA anJNORTH-CAROIIKJ.
■eat 31> From Hilifax court-houfeby Hilihx oldtown,
ack. Carters, MarliHville, Patrick comt-houle-, Upper Sau
?t , fa, Gcifflintown and BtthauiatoSaicm once in i.vn
P M WCckl "
1 Leave Halifax court-house every other Fi iday at
'ave 2| and arrive >1 Salem the next Monday bj 6,
\ P M. Rcluriiing—LcaveSa'em every ofher Tuesday
C 3 at 6, AM, and ajrive at Halifaxcouit-liouie on Fsi
day by 10, A M.
Fiom Hairis'aby Hkket'aford to Halifaxtwice
:0 "- a week.
Leave Harris's every Wednesday and Saturday'by
am ' 5i AM. and arrive at Halifax by 6, PM. Rcturn
mg—leave Halifax every Thursday and Sunday by 6,
't 4 A M, and arrive at Harris'»by 7, P. M.
f by VIRGINIA.
36. From Smid-.field by Southjinptca. coujt l.cufe
igh, to tiickes'j fotd ont;e 1 »cek. ■
1.-v= Huks's[or 1 cv;r:. c•* -, » I Np
ami arrive at Smitht:-''l on by 5, 1 M
Returning—t.c»»?9«hnhfis.'l e v *T ftt ' !rr S'inaay i 'T Usa,
5, AM, «ni arrive * Uicks'i l'>rd-01 Monday by soy ctut
j' p vi 3 w4frti
~. Fro-nOol<Mw»l>r G-efo'idg-, St. Tomw'j, a trip
Meck'e:i ; .nj .ind Lunenburg enart-boufes and Ed- t*arr<
ucTt« Ornffn Go'dlon'i nc-» week. ' V,f
l.ravrGilir.->fi'«e«'V Wcdr,eld2vatlO, AM, and H e
return tl*enext Sa'urday by a, PM, w».ung »t each to car,
Po!!.C!Rce 2 hours after ikiivery of ffi mai . f or hi,
i r/p.aixu & A r o*r x-gsir&om a- .
? S. From .Suffblkby Edentoo, Plymouth and V, a
fliingtnn t„ Newberr., oncca week Leave Wo/
every M-<r4iv a' rioon, arrive at Edent >n 0,1 1 aet- allcrM
da-, at t, P M. at t'vmouih, on Wednesday by 6, c iji£,
\ M, at Wattiatta" by 6, V W, and at Newbern on
Tmirfdayby A . PM- Ra.urmnv-L-ave Newbern
every Friday by 6, A M, arrive *t U ,(h...g:on by
e, P M. Arrive at Plymouth on Sarutdiy l>y 4 /4< ,v
P M, at £d-wni. on Sui>daybyg, A M, ai.daiSut
folk on Monday by g, A M. fij n
NOJLTtf-C 4ROI. T&A. . rts
,q fr-.ni !identoi>bv Hertford, Nixonto*, Eliza- J
b in city, and Joojfbu'g to India.i-'owo, once a
Eftenton cViry by „ P M, and Us j,
arrive at L#rai-:wn od Thii'fdaybj 6, P M. Re
turning—Lewe Indiamown every ruefday.by 5, ..M,
and arrivp at Edentou onWedivfday* ti, A M.
40. from rflVlfix by Northampton curt-We,
Princeton, Murlreclboiongh. Wir.tou and Wind for £
to Edc'toii. once a week. - .
Leave Halifax eyery Monday at 9, A M, *nd arriye
a: Edenion oo 3, P M , l«ve Eden
ton on Wednesday by 6, P M, und arrive at Halilax
on Saturday by 11, A M A
41. From Halifax byS.o'iand, Hogton, Williams. ±A.
I ton and Daily's to Plymouth, once a week. Leave J,ive
! Halifax every Monday at 10, A M, and arrive at rly- tca f e
| mouth on Wednesday by 10, A M. ft f' urr " n .= prop
Leave Plymouth on Wedriefdry at 2, P Mi and ar.
rive at Halif" on Friday at TO, A M- ' uavr
4a. From Halifax by Taiboro' and Greenville to
Wafhingtononee a week
Leave Halifax every Mondiy at to, (i M, andar
live at Washington on Wednesday by 10 AM. Re- ja
turning —Leave \Va(hingto}| every Wednesday .
PM, and ariive at Halifax on Friday at 10, AM, It
' ,3. From Halifax by Warienton, Williamtborough,
Oxford, liilnborough, Martin*ille, Salem, l.cxl'-g
---ton.Salifbnry and Statefville to Charyitd and ' ro '"
Charlotte by Cabarras court-houfc to and
' f.om tkence by Ibe fame route to Halifax, once a rx
week. ... IV
; Leave Halifax every Monday at 9* A M, amv? at
Wat rent en !,y 7 , P M, arrive at Hillfborough on
, at 4, PM, at Salem on Friday by 5 , ™
. PM, at Salisbury on 5a urdav at 4, P M, and at nertl
, Charlotte Oil Mondayby 6, AM. Returning—leave be_en
Charlotte on Monday at to, A M, arrive at Saliltary and
. on Tuefdoy by lDj A 3*l, arrive at Salem ton Wed- £) o n
t nefdayatg, A W, at Hillitorough on Friday by 9, ! ; ntel
AM, at Warrentonon Saturday at 7, P M, aud at g r( j
Hjlifax «n Monday a'. 6, A M- cute
' 44. From HiWborough biy Mount Tirzah, Petfon
1 eourt-houfe, Leafburg, Cafwell court-houfc an<J Roc- _____
L court-houfe to Germantown once -in two
weeks.
; Leave Hillfborpijigti every otherThurfday at 6, AS,
e and arrive at Germantown on Saturday .at 4, P.
Leave Germantown every other Sunday at 6, A, M,
<■ and arrive i t Hill{borotJ>l> 00Tuefday at 4, PM. TN
45. from Salem by lip'-hania, (iuivtlvi)le, Roch- £ ,
0 ; ford, Wilkes, TUorgahton andßutherfordton to Spar- an( j
tanburg in S. C. once in two weeks. p E( j
1 Leave Saltm rvei y otliei Saturday at 5a m, and ar
i rjve at Spartanburg on \Veduefday at 5r M. Leave
Spartanburg every other Thurlday at 7 a m> and ar-
live at Salem the next Monday at § p it. j
' 46. From Louifburg by Na(h court-house to Tar
t boroyjh once aweek. f
Leave every Friday by 6am, and ar
riveat Lputfburg by 6p m. Xct u . rT '! r !g—-Leave Lounf- r
'' turg every Saturday by 6a m, and arrive at 1 arbo- tuii
lough hy o P a. *
' 47. FtomßaieighbySmithfield, Waynefborough, cba
- and Ribgfton to Newberji, once in \wo vyeeks, i
l eave every other lueM/y by 8a m, and *
arrive at the next iFrid'ay by 10 a m.
'0 Jieturiiin^~Leave Newbern every other Friday by 2
p iyt, anp ariWpat Raleigh °n Monday by 0 p "■
r- 4*. Fr..m Rilrifh by Ctupcl hill to lii|llborougbi
f. and fiom lMl'fbo-n i,;h by Chapel hill •»<! ChaiUm «h
Jt court-house 10 Raleigh", once aweek. To wait two icq
hours at Ch o, bam court-house. Ed
Leave Raleigh evert Tuesday by 6 a m, and ar
-3 rive at Hilltborough by 6P m. Returning—Leave
ll " hilltborough every! Wednesday by 8a m, and arrive
at Raleigh on TWdayky 10 a m.
id 40. From Fayettevilje by EHzabethtown, Bclietoit
end Springfield to Vv ilmiogton, and from Wilming
ton by S. Waljiingtnn, Saredo and Sampson court
id houfc to Fayetteville, once a week. . m,
)V Leave Fayetteville every Thefday at 6A M, and
t arrive at Wilmington on I hurfday at 10 a. m. Ke-
turning—Leave' Wilmington every Thursday I4 A "t ,
,l and arrive at Fayetteville on Sunday by 5 pm. e<l
50. From Fayetteville by Alford on and Randolph ag
; r - court-house to Salisbury, and from Saliftury by Mont- Ui
gomery court-house, Anfon cou,rt-houle and Rich- dc
ce mond court-houie to Fayetteville, once a week. thi
Leave Fayetteville every Saturday at 6 a m, 2nd
P arrive at Saliibury o« TueTday by 9a m, Leave Sa- in!
5 lifbury every Tuesday noon arrive at Fayetteville «c
on Friday by 6 p m. "
If 51- From Newbern by Trenton and Richland to u
Wilmington once a week. "
Leave Newbern every Friday at 10 a m, and arrive
at Wilmington on Sunday by 6 p. m. Leave Wil
mington every Tuesday at to am, ai»d aritye at New- __
in. Bern on Thursday by6pM.
m, SOUTH iff NOkTH-CAROLINA.
ck 52. Front Camden by Lancaller court-houie, Char
ve lotte and Lmcolnlon to Statefville, once in two
ar . weeks. &
Leave Camden every o'her Monday at 0 a m, ar
rive atStateCvilic on Thursday by 6p m Leave Ci
ia " ville every other Friday by 2r m, a»d arrive at C4m- pj
lce den on Monday by 6 p.m. O
w- SQU TH* CAROLINA, Si
53. From Columbia -by Winntoorough, Chester A
M, court-house, PinckneyviUe, Spartanburg an -
)P Greenville coU'i-haufc .10 Fickeofvtllej a««
M, from ftc^en(ville by court-houfe and Ncw
. bury court houft to Columbia,'once a week : waiting
' one hour at c .ch polUoflice on the route. v
Leave Columbia Monday at g a m, arrtvtat
XCL ' Spartanburg every Wednesday by 3P m, arrive at
at Pickenfville on Thursday at4P m, arrive at Laurens
court-house on Friday at 4 r m, and at Columbia on
Sunday by 6 f m.
54. From Columbia by Orangeburg tb CharlcltOD,
M, once a week.
M. Leave Columbia every Monday at 10 am. and ar-
A rive at Chariettan on "I hurfday at 10 am. Returning
Qn —Leave Charleston every Thursday at ip m. and ar
-1 ' rive at Columbia on Sunday at noon. c
ar " SOUT H-CARQL IN A & GMORGI/I. » ti
55. From Edgefield cOurt-house by Cambjidge, b
* A Abbeville court-house, Pendleton court-house, Hal- ti
p tonsford, Franklin Qpuit-houfe, Eibeiton and Pcteri
burg to Wafhiugtori, from by Pe- 0
I. terfburg and Cambridge to Edgefield court-house,
by once a week,
oufe Leave Edgefield court-house e.very Friday byß aw, i
arrive at Pendleton court-house on Sunday by 9 AM >
urf- arrive at Franklin court-house by 7 pm, at Petersburg f
oufe OQ T " cfda y by 10 am, and at Wafhiugton by 5 p
rt j m. Leave Walhington every Weduefday at 6a m,
" at Camb on Thursday by >0 am, and at Edge-
r " field court-hpufc by 7f M.
r «ay 56 From Augufia by Washington, Greenfburg and i
Lexington to^Gcoigetown,,or.ce a wetk. J
Leave Auguila every Monday at 3 r m, arrive at
31 wo, Washington on Tuetd-iy by 5 PM, and arrive at
San- Georgeiown on Thursday by 7 Returning— j
two Leave Geoigc:ov\ n cvtiy Fuuay fit 6a m, audamve
at A\igufta by noon on lM&fiday.
ay at From Gardens Corner to Beaufort once a week.
6, L'-ave Beaufort every Thurtdaiy at 2p m, and ariive j
:fday at'Gaidens Corner by o p Returning—Leave Gar*.
Fw- dens Corner ever) Thuriday 5a m, aud arrive at *
Beaufort by 10 a. m. 1
WICC Note I. The Pijl M&fic r General may alter tie time* 1
of arrival and depariutt at any tiose during tWcontinuance '
turn- °f the contract, Le firevioupy f.ipulating an ad<quate com- 1
by 6, petition f*r anyexirc txpeufc tout ntay beoccajionediiere~
b- 1
Nate 1. Half an hnur fall be allowed Jor opening
Lcuic an 'l elofing the Mail at all office* 'where no farticul.iv time '
| is ffcc'ifed.
Xp'.e .1. tuij tout's Mr. /rwrf'ftfr'd*!
VtctPed/hisrtiiilg 'ft' thttimct preferred tm-
J t,J, the Ccntrzfkr JhaU jcrjnl „ne dollar, nnd ij tit it- •
■ lay continvtuntil tht d'.partfot *f my Mtndmg Mai., rOX
aierih the Miiii itftincd for («th Mftrdng f i 1
, a trip, an add'tlorui forfeiture of jtvc dollars /hull bt X
■ incurred' - ftrect!
A'rfe 4. h'e-vfrlfrri as w" as Leftrs c.'e to tr Jtnt M
I in the Mails ; end if any per/an raking froffth dt/res H rcet
I to carry mu4}>.ip'ri other than t'ucfe cmnryed in the nail, up
lor hoti'l e.7i he nsufi fait ia bis pro'jufals for 2
n-'.at fat he ■usMfjrrj it with that tmtlumed and jor tb# f ,
* what tint without tbi't emolument. fupif
toj. Should an^pe/f3l mating proptfth <A;fire an
- alteration of the thncs us jrrii/al tend above jpe~
' dficd, hem-4 Hate in hi, proposals the alterations Mire-,
andibe difi react thy will mall if lit term of his cin-
1 ''aW6. Perfrns tr.a'ing prof'fils art drfirrd it, fate o|J^
* their prices in grift by U>c year, and n,t by the mile. P«W
Those who coftraU re*cir>: their pdy fisartMy* i*
the month, of Jmoiry, April, Jaly am! o&.fer, i„
draft, on the p4 oJf!e„ on He route and
me 7 Tbe co itraa, are to be in operation *» the f*B ° 00 «
' il.il of April next, and continue for fonr yea", ttftH '° n "
1 the iifday of March '.nchftve, in tbiytafltex.
" JOSEPH HABERSHAM, llij,r
Post- MaKer General. ph
,r General Post Ornct, "> —<y
Philadelphia, December 13, I 797; J J '
e " tuth&fiti 4thF
; "NOf IC E, 7 7
ALL persons who have any demands agaluft /\ ]
ths estate of Wilu«m FuewrooD, of JTY
e Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, tie* ferva'
" (.eafed, are requelled to exliibit their accounts, to wt
- properly attested ; and those who are indclrted
' to the fame, are desired to mjke immediate "1
„ payment, to anfwi
GEO. DOBS ON, ) jUminjlr'r.
No. j?, So. Thtrd-ftreet. J J legan
.- January 4.
iV To Cabinet Makers, Joiners, &c.
_ to "
TT CaI " C
'n Cavanagh & Hearn, h&n
d Pine-street, near the New-Market,
a T) ETURN thanks to their friends and the and:
,XV public, for their liberal encouragement, Se
and hope, by their unremitting attention, to
5) merit a continuance of their favor 3. The l'art
at nerihip betveeen them and Joseph B. Barry, lias
j f betn dissolved by mutual conlent. Cavanagi "• A
ry . and Hearn have just rertivetl k .of ,§t.J
Domingo and Honduras ivtahcgohy, wlilcli tlity the j
9' 1 intend to fell on very reasonable termsi forcifti. v ; 0 ) a
at Orders from the country molt pwiflually txe- (u»ti
cuted. Vineers of all kinds cut as nfual. pcrf|
c" J" 1 - '5- _ _ &aw4w of J'
'° Musical luflrument Manufatlory, of t!
167, Arch-street. Ed e:
Vl' TO THE LOTERS OF HARMONY. of tl
harper, f: r
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has ' ch <
now ready fa M«, a few of his ncv/ invented, atft:
ir_ and much admired fide fcaard Piano Fortes, with t0I) ;
Pedals, patent swell, fenopahant a»d French harp
ar ~ flop, which for feufibility of touch, brilliancy of
,VC tone,fimplicity and durability of conftru&ion, the Lri
fnperiority of flatters birafelf, a single tci
al will convince the unprejudiced judgo—A« they
are manufactured under his immedive iß|{?eilipn, _ .
«. of the very be-- feafoncd material?, lie can fell ou M
nf. reasonable terms for Cash, lnltrumants repaired,
,0- tuned, &c. _
N. 3. Kecpnd hand Piano Fortes ukce in ex.-
gb, change for new. . "
member 18. 3**2!} c " n
ni ! X LL persons indebted to the'eftate of Pqter hilr
M " JL\ Gill, late of'he Diflria of Souilivarki de- wh ;
y * ceased, are requested to make irpmediate pay
gh( ment to either of the Sublcribers; and those [jat
who a.uy ayainft laid estate, are I'x:;
wo rcqucfteito in theif icfrounts duty atlett- vA
ed to. 3 rr - " ®
JOHN MURPHY, ?E«cu- abc
«e PETEK SCKAVENPYKE, {
five THOMAS FARRLLL, J ' J
r Phibd. lan. ;6, I7gß. *"w 4 w
ing- " FOR'SALE, AT
un - Wm. Young's Book Store, t
and No. 51, Second flrei;t, the corner of Chefnut ftreetj rei
Re- D EPORT of the Committee of the House of nyo
IV Representatives of the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
,tph against VJILLI4.M BLOUNT, a Senator of the
ont- United States, impeached of high crimes and mis- j u
ich- demeanors, made in pursuance of a refolutiou of
the Koufu of Representatives, authorizing the said
and Committee to fit during the recess of Cungrefs, and
: Sa- inilruifing them "to enquire, and, by all lawful
vilie raC aus, to difeover the whole nature and extent
" of the offence whereof the said William Blount tis
d, to 1. stands impeached, and who are the parties and ex
" afTociates tliergin." in
" v . c Printed by order of tbt House of Representatives. dr
1 * December 2a. §
ew- ____
Prison Manufactory. B
•bar-
two MR. SALE,
At the Prison of the Cjty and County of Phfjadel- J
, ar- phia,
a,c '- Cut Nails of all sizes, from 3dy to aody
'4 m - Flooring Brads, Spriggs, laddie and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakets and Sailers Thread lr]
e{l " Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currlrr's tables, y|
a ", tomb and headttoa£s»s~hcarthi, cWtawy pietwv nl
a "" platforms, llabs, facia, wiadow beaii, fills, c . j-j
All which may he had on lva/onable ternjs,
llin S Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at jj
veat a moderate price.
vc a[ Orders from a diftancc, Jiredled to Daniel Tho
jrelu ma?, agent for the prison, will be attended to.
ia on December 16 ■ mti>6m
Hob, DANCING SCHOOL.
P
ting "VT7"ILL!AM M'DOUGALL presents his "
idar- VV molt complipients to his form- j
er employers and the citizens in general, and re
. ' turns his molt grateful thaiiks, for the very 1
idge, }>ounliful encouragemeut he has expettenced for
Hai- tnefe twentyfive years past, takes this opportu
'eterf iiity of informing them, that his school is now /
y Pc " open, at hi*
Elegant Ball Boom,
8 aw, in South Fourth-Street, between Chefhut and
1 am Walr.ut-ftreets. To begin at 10 in s he morning :
r (burg for
y5 r gentlemen.
Dec. 8. aawtf.
Edge- ;
COLUMBIA HOUSE 'j
s and Boarding School for young Ladies.
'ivc at
ve at IVx ureirid returns her sincere ac
'"i — knowledgentent for tlie+iberal encouragement '
amve has received during four years residence i»
Philadelphia ; and allures her friends and the !
arrive P ub K l » so far from intending to decline her 1
fcliool, she has made a superior arrangement for 1
tivc at the more convenient accommcdation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ulVful and polite
- tires education is particularly attended to by Mrs,
i,mmc: Groombridge and tnafters excelling in their
it com- refpedive profeffions.
I there- Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797. Jimftf
fining The situation is pcrfefllyhealihy ; and made
ir time more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
of grcund adjoining the house.
'
City Commissioner's Office
, January, i 2 f,, ~ ' .
FOR. TBS INFORMATION OF THE fell |ju,
TTHE following arrangement i. rnad c bv ih,
' A raid Commissioners, for cleanfin. t k
ftrtefs, See. ' 4 e
li!!ri« No. i.—From the north sij t 0 f y
flreet to the south IWe of Mulberry flreet : t -■
• be und;r the fosierintoWa.ee of Nicholas lr'ck.
1. troni the south fide of Mulberrv street tQ
the south fide of Chff.iut flreet to be
, fiip«rir.da!ifc of William Moulder ,he
. 3. From the south fide of Chefnut flreet
the worth si.de of Spruce flreet, to be under the
. luperir,tendance of Joseph Claypoole.
4- From th« r.orth fide of Spruce street, to the
c louth fide of Cedar flreet, to be under the fu
. perintendante of Hugh Roberts. mwi'im
j The Suhfcriber,
Informs those to whom be is indebted, Jhet his
1 boo l". which have been U'p: open for thoir ihfoec
i tion fin« I>«.mber 1 7i9 « are l:JTshrert to the ? iff
ult. and will during the present month rerraia
open at his Countiasr-houfe' in Chefnut Street for
their further investigation srid fcruf : ny.
, , , JAMES GREHNLEAF.
Philadelphia, Jan. ill 1798.
Jnft received a Frejh Supply.
English Grammar,
The second edition, ivith improvements
t A DA . P . TED to the different clafTes of learners;
JL X. with an appendix, containing rules and ob
lervarioai for a (lifting the mqre advanced students
» to wi »te with pcrfpicuity and accuracy
3 Bv LINDLEY MURRAY,
e "This is a publication of much merit, and fully
answers the profeffions in the Title. The appen
. dix contains some of the bell roles for writing e
legantly, and with propriety, that we recollefl to
have seen."
_ Monthly Review, July 1796.
This Grammar is, on many accounts entitled
to commendatory notice, its mr.teiials have been
carefully and judiciously felted ; its arrangement
isdfftina and well adapttd to the purpose of in
flru<slion and its expreffioß is fimplc, perspicuous >
r and accurate, StCy."
t , See the cbara3er at large in the Analytical
o Review, July 1796
18 English Exercises,
Adapted to the Grammar lately pubjifhed by
t-- 1 Wi--.v exemplification of
y the parts of speech, inftancetof lalfe orthography
«• violations of the rules of syntax, defers in puns.
=- tuation, and violation? of the tules refpe&ing
perspicuity and accuracy, designed f»r the benefit
_ of private learners, as well as for theufe of schools.
, " Wa have been much pleased with the petufal
> of these Exercises. They occupy with distinguish
ed excellence a most important place in the fcicncc
of the' giiglifii language; and as such, we can
warmly recommend them te the Teachers of
as Schools, at wellas to all those who are defirow of
attaining correclnefs and precision in their native
ch tongue."
rp Monthly Review, July 1J97.
3 f The above Bodks are for sale at Jossm & Jamis
be CRU'JSU'VIJK? book Hare, Ma. 87, Market flreet.
ti- January It. Jtawjw.
" 60 Dollars Reward.
1) AN AWAY from the fubferiter, on the 14th
K ) s 1\- of December, 1797, a Ntgr® Man, about*!
years old, by the name of Cato.he is about s ff?t
7 or 8 inches him, mirfiinr well proportioned ; he
has a very cearle voice, his fbre teeth stand ver.y
far
- cannot rightly describe the doaths he tpok wiih
,cr him, for he took two or .three suits ;he had on
whenhewent away, a pair of kerfcy irowfers, a
I Y~ half worn drab coloured coat, a haK worn wool
3^e bat ;he took with him four Very good Ihirts—?.
ar e fxpcfl he has made for Philadelphia or the jerfcys.
'si- Sfr4rolbevsri3&^f . I.i i.n;f h':TL, if,
that the owner may get him agair:, ftaH Lent the
„ above reward, paid by mv, JOHN
'' Living iu Still Kent county, Maryland.
s ' January 4. *-6tjaw
Wanted, to Hire,
Al.arge and convenient HOUSE, in or nfaf
tlie centre of the city—for which a .generous
cet t rent'will be given ;to be taken tor a year; or cn
:of more for a longer term. Inquire of this Primer,
int- Off. 17- ' eott
Valuable Books, '•
ni^_ Ju ft received by the from
London, and now opening and felling by
and J* Ormrod, No. 41, Chefnut Street.
v)uj CATALOGUES
tent Of,the newly importedbooks maybe had gra
iuut tis. Thei'c added to O's usual flock, form an
and extensive and elegant collection of ancient and
rnoderi). literaUii e, antj coniprife books in fua
vet. dry languages and on various £ibj?6U,
§
This Day is Published,
By J. Ormrod, (Price 75 cents, handsomely
bound and letteredj and embellished \frith an
elegant frqntifpiece and seventy three cdts.}
■ del ' The Looking Glass fbr the Mind,
OR,
ss The Juvenile Friend ;
Being a valuable colleilion of interelling and
miscellaneous incidents, calculated to exhibit to
hies, young minds the liapiijr efteifs of yoWhfu! in
nocenCe and filial afftition —In prose and verm.
' c ' Defigncd to improve and amuf'e the rising gepe
ration. ,
" In the Prefi, and will be Cpeedily puhlifhed,:
rho . Dr. DARWIN'S
Plan of Female Education,
m Subscriptions for this incomparable work will
be thankfully received by the printer. The boo!:
will contain about three hundred pages, will he
printed with a new type on fine paper, and de
tjvered to fukJcrihers oeatly bound, lettered and
h " eoibelUfhed with an elegaut frontifpiece, for one
;' rm - , dollar. '
re " i January 3. , ~ t-vjery
vjery I J. 1 —^—
,or I This Day Published,
Z n> ~- And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of
ow ' Second and Chefnut flreet!,
Piice yZlbi of <1 DMcr,
Observations on certain Document.
and Comailied ifc No. V and VI of
" ruup i« The Hiftorv of t\te United States fur
Oh " E 1 the year 1 79^,"
~f In the ch.- rse ot speculation againll
JLtEXANDZR HAMILTON,
Late Secr,e'J aiiv of tiie 1 R t Aseay, is I LILLY
lies. KEPO I'£D..
a l e . t l WRITTEN iff **£?'■
... This publication pcefents a ccncikftatemerrt
IZt of bate moans pr.itifcdby f
United States to atperle the cha ai.ers ot thens
psi foils who arc corfiderectis hostile to their difor
', / r gat.,zing schemes. It also coutams the cor*
6 h f " refnondence between Mr. Hamilton and Mefcrs.
" t ~ r Monroe, MuhleubvrgU and on the sub
* iefl of the documents aforefai J, and a scries of Ict-
P ollte wr# from James Reynolds and his wife toMr.Ha-
Mrs - milton, proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt,
their that t b e co iincaio«i between him and Reynold-,
was the rcfult of a daring eonfpiraey on the part
ets. 0 f the latter and his associates to extort money,
lftf A diicount of one thirrl froni the retail price
made will be made in favor ©t whokfnic purcha&rs, for
ndlot cash. Orders to be addrtffes! to Mr Yovhc;.
fligui Is.