Daily Advertiser:
N r ,'MS££ 1769^
For Sale, or Charter.
■ - THV SHIP
LIBERT!, El
LAYINCJ at Vine Street Wharf
burthen per
eighty two tons. l hUveffel Se
has been about eighteen months off the flocks, and jj,.
lately returned from a voyage t« Holland. She is
a prime failcr, ca*: be armed with less diCidvantage an
to her flowage than any vessel in thisport and may m
be £n at a moderate expeuce. Apply to or
JOHN SKYRIN, vi
Landenberger's Wharf. ta
may 5 *^ IW fir
~ JUST~ARRIVED, 2
In tl* ebr ig Gay ofo, capt. Bingham, from St. Mart ins w
A quantity of SALT, fi<
of an exccellent quality
A few groce Porter Bottles, new
And twenty calks Vinegar
And the said
fllr Al l°' FOR SALE> ' e;
"Enquire of ft
Jehu Hailing/worth of Co. w
Nj. Little vVater ftraet, South. y
april 10. - tl
For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub- »
fcribers, on Walnut street Wharf, d
19 < ca(ks of nail? assorted ii
so bales ff fail canvas*, from No. I to 8 ti
e i calks yellow ochre t
i 5 tierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 d®* each
London particular ) Wines
- ***<'t- '• J
Tenenffe do. in hogfheadtand pipes-
Old Port do. in hhds.
Empty CUrct bottUs
6 cales of Ginghams, Dimities, Muflinets &c.
assorted for the Well-India market
4, 10, and 9 inch cablesand io colls of cordage
Writing fiates, ink Uands and presses
puncheons Jamaica rum t
I bile seaming twine t
160 bundles lheatl,ing paper
f—the brig <
AMAZON,; ]
Sale, or Charter. ;
Nicklin b* Griffith. \
a p ri , y tuth&f.tf ;
: FORTSALE. !
i?s'rbS:"}H^ annahSi> s ar :
aoo Hides {
Will be landed to-morrow, at Willingsand Fran- (
cis's wharf, from or. board the brig Aitive, Will
iam Williams, mailer. ,
faid Brigforfale,
And may take in immedi- j
Apply to
fchu Hollingfworth Co.
march 30. nn- 1 - "" "J",' ,- 1
For HamWgh,
THE SHIP
Dominick Terry,
John Fleming, Majler,
great purtol'her cargoen
gagsd.—For freight apply to .
JeJJe (z> Robert IValn.
February 26
~~~ FOR SALE,
House and 14 elegant Building Lots in German
town.
ON Monday the l 4 thinftant at 30' clock P. M.
will be fold by public audion on the prwni
fes.
The firft House in the village of Germantown
situated on the right hand fide of the Road
leading from Philadelphia. Also it building lots
adjoining the fame, each containing 50 leet on
front on the Germantown road, and extending
400 feat on depth.
N. B. A plan of the abova lots maybe ften pre
vious to the day of sale by applying to
FOO TMAN & Co. AufiioKctrs
May 7. -
VIRGINIA TOBACCO.
Walker & Kennedy,
No. 73, South Front-Jlrect.
HAVE FOR SALE, -
jo HogOuadc Virgima Tobacco, of Freclerickf
burg and Falmouth Infpedlions.
30 Hogsheads ditto of Richmond infptdlion.
may 8. eedgt
Horses on Sale.
Several valuable Horses to be Sold,
Which are perfeflly well broke for either La
dies or Gentlemen ; 'trills of them are allowed.
Apply to T. SWANN
at fcis Hiding School Market-street, which is
open every day for the purpose of teaching the
art of Horfema nlhip, and the breaking and train
ing of H»rfes. #
may 4 - U
FRESH TEAS.
MR. CHALK,
INFORMS his Friends and the Public, that he
has opened a
TEA IT ARE HOUSE
At his Circulating Library, No. 75 North Third
street, where he will be happy to execute their
Orders for fine-flavoured
imperial, HYSON, }
YOUNG HYSON, ( TEAS
HYSON-SKIN, > a-c.. a,
SOUCHONG & BOHE4 J
' On moderate terms.
Coffee, Chocolate and Loaf Sngrr.
April 13- m&ttf
Real Eiiate for Sale.
AT the Merchant's Coffee House on Monday
evening the twenty-firft instant, will be
fuld pursuant to an order form the Orphan's
Court. A three story Brick House, twenty-four
feet front on Great Dock-flreet and forty-two
f-ft deep ; together with the Let twenty four
feet by eighty-two feet deep, sow in the tenure
of Edward Pole, being part»f theeftite late of
Rev. Gilbert T.Snowden deceased. Tie terms
will be made known at the time of Sal«, by
Isaac Snowden, Admnillrator.
Edward Pole, An&ioneer.
m iy 3. diodeots
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, MAT 12, 1798.
, HEALTH OFFICE.
Philadelphia, \JI Afay % 179&* r~y
ExtraA ef an a<St to alter and amend the H-a'th
Laws of this Commonwealth, passed 41b April
1798. y
ea « ANDbe it further by «he au
8' A thority aforefaid Thatefory houfc- To
keeper within the city ef Philadelphia, the town- ftn
{hips of the Northern Liberties and MoyameoGag,
and diitria of Southwark, within a mile of the li- La
mitsof the city, taking in boarders arriving by fca afli
or by land, from any foreign port or place, and ha- 1 \y
ving any boarJ#r in hi* or her family, who (hall be
taken (ick of aoy disease wlntfoever, between the j
fir ft day of May and the firfl day of November in a y
any year, within twenty days next after such boar- , 1C)
der ihall come to lodge in his or her house, (hall
within 24 hours next after the knowledge of such
sickness. make report at the Health Office of the
name of such Cck perfoia, the time of his or her ar- .
rival at the house and of his or hsr being taken sick, j
and of the name and place of abode of such house- .
keeper; whereupon the Physician of the Health-
Office (hall forthwith visit the patient, and report \ th<
to the office his opinion of the nature of such dif- cc
ease, that measures may be taken to prevent the to
spreading of the infesion; and if any houiekeeper let
shall negle& to give information in the manner and
within the time aforcfaid, and (hall be thereof con- in
vided, in any court of criminal jurisdiAion within j
this Commonwealth, upon indictment by verdiA -
or confeffion, he or (he fftall forfeit and pay a fine
to the use of the said hefpital, not less than twenty
dollars, nor more than one hundred dollars, to be
imposed at the discretion of the court, according to p
the circumstances of greater or less aggravation at
tending each particular cafe.
By order of the-Board of Heakh,
WM ALLEN, Health Officer,
iaw3m of the Port ot Philadelphia,
rreafury Departments c<
J 1 o n<
March 19, 1790*
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
T HATpropolals will be received at the Office of
the Secretary of theTreafury until the expi
ration of the i?th day of Juiy next ensuing, for
thefupply of all rations which may be required ei
for the use of the United States, fromthe firft day of ft
O&ofcer 1798, to the thirtieth day of September b
1799, both days inclusive, at the places and within ti
the diftridt hereafter mentioned, viz. At Ofwego;
at Niagara ; at Prefque Isle ; at Michilimackinac ; r:
at Fort Franklin ;at Pittiburgh ;at Le Beuf; at t
Cincinnati; at Greenville; atPicqueTown and a
Lcramie's Store; at Fort Wayne; at Fort Dcfi- t!
ance ; at any place below Fort Defiance on the Mi- ii
ami River to Lake Erie ; at Fort Knox and Oua
tanon on the River Wabafh; at Maflac; at any
place or places on the east fide of the River. Miffil
fippi above the mouththe River Ohio, and up
on the illn.ois River ; at any place or places on the c
east fide of the Mississippi River below the mouth j
of the River Ohio to the southern boundary of the (
State of Kentucky, and within the said Stat<'; at
, Knoxvillc, Tellico Block House, and at all other j
. Posts in the State oi TennelTee; at aay place or (
places on the east fide of the River Miffiflippi, be- j
low the southern boundary of the State of i'ennef- \
fee, to the southern boundary of the United States. ,
If supplies shall be required for any posts or ,
- pffitS in this notice,all such supplies
lhal] fi'TWhrr! nf.rriceslpropor f *<mgd to those to
the posts belore rerifcd- T r J ■■ i
rween the United States and the contra&or.
The ratiops to he supplied to consist of th p/fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour
One pound of beef or twelve ounces of pork
or bacon
Half a )ill of rum, brandy or whif-"^
ky, one quart of Salt, two quarts ( hu^r(?d
of vinegar, two pounds of soap, f rat j ons
one pound of candles J
The rations are to be furnifhed in such quantities,
as that there shall at all times during the said term,
[ be fufficient for the conlumption of the treops at
Michilimackinac, Detroit, Niagara, and Ofwego,
for the term of fix mor.ths in advance, and at each
n of the other posts, for the term of at least three
1 months in advance, in good and wholesome provi
,g fions, if the fame (hall be required. It is tabe un
derstood, that the contra&or is to be at the ex
pence and risk of ifTuing tlie fuppliesto the troops
S at each post, ahd that all losses sustained by the de
predations of an enemy, or by means of the
troops of the United States, (hall be .paid for at
the price of the articles captiired or destroyed, on
the depofitfong of two or more persons of credita
- blechara&ers, and the certificate of a commiffion
ej officer, ascertaining the circunaftances of the
loss and the amount of the articles for which com
y penfation lhajl be claimed.
The priviledge is reserved to the United States
of requiring that none of the supplies which may
r be furniihed under the
issued, until the supplies which have or may be
furniffied under the contrail now in force have
been consumed.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
march 27. 2awti-,Jy
1, .— _— - r
»- Germantown and Reading 1 urn
d* pike Road Company.
is
ie SubfcribcrsCoinniiffioners appointed by
n- X an A£t of'Aflembly of this Commonwealth
entitled, "An a<fl to enable.the Governor of this
Commonwealth to intorporate a Company for
making an Artificial Road from the city of Ph -
ladelphia, through Germantown, by the roul
of Chefnut Hill, to the twelve mile stone on
the Keading Koad, and thence to Reading in the
l county of Berks," hereby give notice, that books
are provided as the law direfls, and that we
will proceed to receive subscriptions for the com
pany's {lock on the 28th, 29th, and -,oth days
rd of May next, at the City Hall, in the city of
tir Philadelphia,it the Tavern of William Buchois
in Germantown, at the Tavern of Jacob Berr,
in Reading in the county of Berks, and at the
Tavern of George Phlcger, in Potts-Town in
the county of Montgomery, cn the fame days,
from ten o'clock in the morning, until two o'
clock,P. M. en each day, when and where cer
tain of the Comm .ffioners will attend to receive
subscriptions accordingly.
April 14th, 1798-
BENJAMIN CHEW, jun.
CASPAR W.HAINES,
ay SAiMUEL BET I ON,
be GEORGE LOG^N,
i'i JOHN FROMBHRGER, j
ur ISAAC FRANKS,
vo JOS HEISTER,
ur j. BOWER,
ire DANIEL ROSE,
of SAMUEL LAVERTY,
us ' GEORGE DOUGLASS,jun.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
>r. N. B. Fift«en Dollars to be paid on each
(hare at the time cf/übfcrihinjr.
April i7~*eodtjoM
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Chefnut Street.
Military Academy.
THE Public are most refpe<Ttf#Jy informed, }
ikat a Military Academy is opcaed in the (j
* Northern Liberties in the house formefly belong
ing to John Maflers, esq. between the German-
Ttiwn and Frankfort :'>»•!>, I'orth Second
. street continued
Br JOHN BARBER, "
■ Late of the 6oih Britilh regiment ef Foot and ir
a affiflant Engineer t» the Army ailing in the
- i Weft-Indies. a]
e ! Where gentlemen will be taught the manual
c ! Exercise and made completely acquainted with
" all the duties of officers, non-commissioned of
j" | ficers and privare soldiers in camp, garrison and
I Quarters ; the forms of regimental and field re- f(
turns, detachments, rollers &c. &c also the n
[ e art of drawing plans, feilions and gtometric3l 3(
'* i elevations, the elements of tactics, gunnery and f,
I' j fortification. —A fubfeription lift is left at the 0
rt the outlines of the proposed regulations may be c
f. : seen. The situation is extremely well adapted <;
ie to the undertaking and eight acres of ground ate I
•r set apart for the purpose. '
,d N. B. Gentlemen from the Country boarded 1
a- in the house if required.
in ; may 10. diwiawim 1
_____
Military Colours.
be At C. GULLAGER's
t0 Portrait and Ornamental Painting Rooms,
No. 50, South Fourth, next to Chefaut street, t
oppofitc the Friends' Meeting. t
PAINTING on fiiks for Military and other or- t
namental purpofcs (iti a manntr pecwliar to -
himfelt) durable, not to be injured by the weather, t
which for tlegaoee of defiga, truth and beau y-of
cafouting, neatness and mafler)y (fxecation, has |
not been squalled hy George Rutter'and Co.
FLAGS and DR UMS
0 £ Furniflied with all possible difpatch> on the most
p j_ reafonaMe terms.
for Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck
ed et», Cornices, &c. &f. executed in (tile (not that
of superb ftlle of modern elegance peculiar to G. R.)
ur but in a workman like manner, peculiar to an ar
lin tift master of hi? proieffion.
ro; Mr. Gullacer, from a number of year's expe
ic ; nence in Europe and this country, flatters himfelf
at that profeffional talents, punflnality, and reafon
ind able demands, will meet the entire approbation of
efi- those gentlemen who will please to c.ill at his Paint-
VJi- ing Rooms. §6w may 5.
ua- .
N 0 T I C E.
up- P. S. Gentlemen in town and
the country, wiftiing for a supply of Colours and
nth Drums, painted in a mifterly manner, will no
the duuht feel themselves obliged for the kind cau' ion
at given by George Rutter aid Co. not to trust felf
hcr flattering advertisements but examine the work
or executed by both parties —One view will fatif
fy them where the fuperitrity lies, —save thefpoil
nef- j n g Q f good ftlks by Geoige Rutter's pencil—and
ites. discover the requisites fee the contra&ing talents
or of Henry Frailey, at Gernantown. may 10.
■e'to Military Colours,
b f - i »£-■>•-" "*
f , George Rutter Co.
sol-
Portrait and Ornamental Painters^
IN a stile which will endure the hard(hips of the
weather without injury, and whtdi foi; neatness
and exadlitude of colouring cannot befurpafled in
, r this city.
Ired FLAGS AND DRUMS
ons Furnished with difpatci, en tha most moderate
ties, lcrras
:rm, Portraits, Ornamental Paintings, Signs,
>s at (ire-buckets, See. accompjftied in that superb stile
ego, of modern elegance, which, Mr. Rntter fledges
Each himfelf from 20 years experience iu this city will
hree meet the entire approbation of hit friends and the
ovi- public.
Un " In the Military Line,
' CX- '
A variety of fpecimer's may be seen at their
de' Painting Room, Norris'sCourt, back of the Naw
the Libr "y- ~
ar at ma y * : d6w
NOTICE.
lita- _____
''the T TAVING obftrved an advertisement <if C.
JLjL Gullager, in terms derogatory of our pro
feffional abilities, we have to request. the public
tates not t0 k e ' m P°f e d upon by foreign artiftsbut to
decide upon the merits o( each by a comparison ot
II be the work executed by both, as it is a mode almost
universally adopted by them to invalidate the ta
lents ef ellabli(hed artifti, with a view of deceiv
ing the public, and engrossing that business which
their profeffional knowledge in no wife entitles
them to. Well knowing that public-opinion must
I'. govern, we flatter ourselves that the work execut-
Jy ed by us will convince them of our great fuperio-
rity over Mr. Gullager in every branch of por
m- trait and ornamental painting, and (hew thenecef
fity of judging for themfelvei.
N. B. In future no attention will be paid to ths
felf-flatterir.g advertisements of Mr G.
:dby Any person wiftiing a supply of FLAGS and
ealth DRUMS will please apply to Gio. Rutti* and
fthis Co. Norris'Court, or Henar Frailey, Gcrtnac
y for town. §6w may 8.
rou i Robert Field,
e on MINIATURE PAINTER,
11 the rcmoV4< i to No. lo>, Walnut street, be
-00 tween Fourth and Fifth (lre*s.
1 we may 2. ' dtw
com-
days New Tea Warehouse.
hois'
« OPPOSITF. POS>OFriCE.
e ' r | 'HE Subscriber refpsclfiily acquaintsherfricnds
'' . € X and the public, that iht has Opened a Store for
in the sale of all kinds of tea* imported in the late
da y s ; arrivals at Boston and Philadelphia, (as under) and
vo 0 which fte is determiried tofJl on reasonable terms,
t cer- j t w jjj b c hcrconllantendeawar to give fstufa&ion
ctive to those who please to favor her with their custom.
Country ften swill find it their advantage to deal
wi h her, as (he can at a moment's notice alTort
them any quantity wanted, ani will allow a reason
able credit on approved notes
Imperial, H;lon, Young Hyson, Souchong,
Hyson Skirt, and Bohea —Alfc, Coffee and Loaf
Sugar for sale.
Sirah Eaton.
April 12 s&th.6w
Imported in the hip Phoenix,
Richard Grice, master, lom Amflerdam,
un. A qnantity of Lintfed Oil, and
Two cases low priced -inen Checks
each F° r sale BY
Gorge Pennoci.
( april 19. eotf
HEAD ACHE.
PERSONS affliaed with the Head Ache, pro*
ccsdisg frem whatsver cause, will fir.d in
stant relief in the application ef 31
Dr. Church's Anodyne r .ffence,
In Rhcßm-uic, Billiou . -.1 Aches,
it ha« liot its equal. It not only alleviates that
idrnieiMingpatn, but removes it almost inftantape
gufty. The Head Ache oceafioped by hard drink-
ing, and any local pains in apy other patt of the
body or extremities, are by its application effedu- al
ally removsd. hi
CASES OF CUSS. c<
TV Dr. Cudxcu. v:
Dear Sir, 01
I have been fubjeft to a very severe Head Ache f e
for several years, which Cometinies used to afflict ft
me to such a violent dagree, as to disable me from t(
attending my duty as Draftfman of the Towcr, tl
for several days together. 1 have had the advice
;of several cnainent Phyficiaiu in this city and in
Wales, and have tried several other remedies re- -
commended to me without effect. Beingona day
1 extremely indisposed with the Head Ache as usual, Ii
! I sent for you, when you recommended your Ano- a
dyne Effencc to me, which 1 applied, and which 3
removed the pain, as soon as I applied it.—l fre- 3
quently repeated the use of it, and am happy to 9
inform you, I have had no return of it. -C
I am, Daar Sir, ,
Vour obedient Servant,
JOHN BARNES.
Drawing £o»m. Tower of I.ondon, May 9, 1795"
Frum tie Morning Advertiftr, March 26 1295■
Another gentleman in his Majesty's service in
the Tower of London, has been extremely affliil
ed with the Hilad Ache for fomif years, and lome
tinkes to so violent a degree, as to prevent him from
attending, the duties of his office ; at ona ot which
times, he lent for some of Dr. Church's Anodyne
T fr. Bcc. whicb he applied, and which removed tha
p.l'lo inflaihoncoully ; and he is happy in affirming,
that he has had no return of th« pain lince.
The above gentleman, whose and address
may be known at the place of fate, will tetlify the
above, to any candid enquirer.
Church's ANODYNE ESSENCE, is prepared
and fold (only) by the Inventor and Proprietor,
SR. JAMES CHURCH,
At his Medicine Store, No. I, South Third street,
Philadelphia.
WHERE MAY ALSO BE HAD,
Church's Cough Drops, a medicine unequalled by
any other in the world, for the cure of Coughs,
Atlhmas and Confuyiptions.
Also, his Cordial Rcjloratiw Half am, for Nervous
Disorders, Inward Weaknesses, Debilitated Confti
rutions, and Disorders incident to Young Girls and
Women at certain periods of life ; celebrated Eye
Salve, for all diseases of the Eyes ; Vegetable Lolian,
for the cure of Freckles, Sunburns, Pimples, and
all Eruptions of the Face and Skin, Shingles, and
the Prickly Heat ; Palati/e TinClure, an immediate
cure for that excrutiating pain the Tooth Ache ;
Scotch Ointment, for the cure of the Itch, in four
hours, with ut a particle of mercury, or any per
nicious ingredients ; and Antiffa/modic Elixir, for
the cure of all kinds of Fits.
may io. latv.-jw
The following Certificates of
FUNDED DEBT OF THE UN IT ED STATUS
on the Books of the treasury, were
Pcnn, Captain Jofiah, which hath been captured,
and the Certificates supposed to be loft, viz :
Edward Giddy, of Thredrea, in Cornwall,
i Great Britain, dated June 2, 1797. Certificate
1 No. 10,072.
8021. 15. Six per Cent. Stock, in the name of
Edward Horue, of Bevis amount, Hants, Great
Britain, dated May 30, 1797. No. 1.5196.
' 3610. 50. Deferred Debt, in the name of Will
iam Manning, of Ormfby, in the county of Nor
-1 folk, in England, dated July 10, 1797. No
; ' 10199.
i 40183. 72. Three per Cent. Stock, in the name
1 of Jannet Mat hew, of Upper ,seymour street,
: London, Widow, dated OAober 31, 179 - N°-
11820.
For the renewal of the above Certificates, ap
plication is intended to be made at the said office of
jhe Treasury of the United Statss, —and per -
funs concerned aredeftred to tak - notice.
At.SO —IN TSt SAME VUSEL,
Fifteen {hares Stoi'koftthe Baukof UicitedStjtes.in
thename of Williijn Manning,of Ormfby, coun
ty of Norfolk, EifgUnd, vii. Three Certificates
for five (hares each, dated January 1, 1797.
No. 25982, 25983, 15984.
For the renewal of which,application i» meant to
c be made to the said Bank ef the United States, —
J and all persons concerned therein art; desired to
, take notice.
JN. VAUGHAN.
Philadelphia, may 4.
\ The following Certificates of Shares
l TN the North American Land Company, (landing
. A on the Books of said-Company in the name of
. Daniel Lifter, of Hackney, in the county of Mid
. dlefcx, England—viz. No. 2151, representing
130961013105, ten (hares—No. 2150 —1306610
13075> ten shares—No. 2149 —1305610 13065,
J ten (hares—No. 2148 —11509 to 11518, ten fharcs
—No. 2147 —H47 1 to 11480 —Amounting to
i Forty Shares, were forwarded for London by-the
j (hp Willia-11 Penn, which having been captured,
said certificates are supposed to be loft ; for there,
newal ef which, applicajion will be made to the
Board of the said company.
Daniel Neal Lijler.
may I »d6w
The Co-partnership of the Subscribers,
TRADING UNDER THE FIRM OP
Joseph Davidson & Co.
. TS this day dissolved by mutual consent, all those
1 having claims against said firm, are desired to
render their accounts, and those indebted to make
J t payment to Joseph Davidfon, who is duly aiitho
rifed to fettle the affairs of theconcern.
JOSEPH J. MILLER.
; d Joseph d-widson.
5 N. B. The Stores at the corner «f Market and
_ Fourth Streets are now to be let.—Enquire of To
i eph Davidfon.
aj »P" 1 * 6 tv&s2m
FOR SALE.
SEVERAL very elegant Situation* for Sum
mer Retreats, three and a half miles from
lf the Court House, and on the Frankford Road ;
the lots will be made tofuit the purchasers.
These fttuations are conlidered in point of health
beauty and elegance, equal to any near the city,
~ and the road known to be fafe and good at all
seasons of the year. The title indisputable— A
plan of the grounds is in the hands of the sub
scriber, »ho will make known the terms on ap
plication to him at his office No. 124 South
Fourth Street.
ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER.
may 2. 3tawtf
FOR SALE,
"PHE whole or on. half of a PLANTATION
1. on the river Delaware, between Burl njton
and Bordenton (two miles from the Utter), con
taining about 4©o acres ; 60 of which are bottom
meadow, jrnd »oo wood Lapd ; there are sera®
of red cloyit to cut this year (eictufive of mea
dow) but will exceed £0 the next ( and any quan
tity of manure may be had for the upland from tha
mtacow without injury.
An orchard of grafted fruit yielding betwsen 60
and 70 hogsheads of excellent cider; a dwelling'
house with a barn, liable, granary and other ne
csfTary buil ings go with one part ia cafe of a di
vision J on the other are no improvements, but has
one of the most elegant fituati->ns far a house to be
seen on the river. The land is of good quality,
suitable for grazing or agriculture, and convenient
to!market by land or water. For terms apply t®
the owner on the premises.
Thomas St- John.
May j eodtf _
JUST ARRIV ED,
In the ftiip Phoenix, capt. Gricc, frotn Arnfterdam,
2 boxes Siamois t tihd.Hogi Uriilies, ill
3 do. Haarlem Stripes quality
3 do. Checks, No. 2 2 do. do. 2J do.
9 do. Sealing Wax 3 do. Glue, and
Cream Qheefe in prime 11 cherts firft quality Red
order for exportation Craft
ALSO,
Jllft Received, via Baltimore, &c.
50 bales brown Ticklenhurgs andhampen Line 4»
10 bales German Ozaabrigs
30 bales brown Rolls and Heffins
sj bales I'olifii do. Likable for coffee 2nd cotton
bags
so bales empty Bags
i bale bleached Heffans
I package Turkey Yarn
54 pieces .vtadnafs Hattikerchwh
1 aheft Tapes, No. 13, 15, &c.
1 package cotton Lindfeys
ijo boxes Window Gl.rf>, 7 by 9, 8 hy 10, 9 fcy
11, 10 by is, 14 by 16, 16 by 18, &c.
so chests plain and flowered half pint, pi«t an«
quart Tumblers
SO che.ls Looking Glasses, assorted
4 large elegant do.
30 travelling l.iquor cases
1 chest and 8 barrels Snuff Boxes
400 fides upper and foal Leather
A cargo of prime Mahogany
Several Anahors, from 4 to u cwt.
SO pipes old Port
A few quarter calks Sherry ( y[jj£g
60 cases White f
soo boxes Claret J
80 boxes Capers
1 300 small boxes Ruflia Soap
30 tierces Rice
JO calks Roll Brimstone 1 '
40 kegs yellow Hone Ochre
I 15 kegs Pearl Barky
a hoglheads Madder
1 chell aborted Quills
6 bales Writing Paper
10 chests Slates and Pencils
so trunks Mens' and Womens' Sho«s
60 Silver Watches
j hhd Coffee Mills
> % do filhing and blocking Twine
. s chests Nuremberg Toys
j A few Dewijohns
t A qttan.tty of ftcme pickling Pots
4 boxes of Kngliflt Chariot and Chariot Harneft,
with plated ornaments incomplete fettsfors, 4,
) or 6horfes,alfo Whips, Spurs, &c.
. The above Goods are generall/ entitlad to draw
back, are suitable for the Eall India market, and
f will be fold at reasonable prices and at the usual
t credit, by
PRATT tfKINTZING,
No. 95, North Water-(lreet.
April 16. t&fnt
BRANDT.
'■ The Cargo of the Danish Brig Concord,
' FROM CETTI,
Will commence landing this day, at Smith's ftre.t
wharf.
'[ ?S r df,H h r'} Choice Brandy
Provence white Wine, ia pipes
Hazlenuts and Filberts, in Tacks
A few Almonds, Raiiir,, &c.
1 For Sale by
s Peter Blight. *
WHO Also OrFtm FOR SAL£,
200,000 lbs. Java Coffee, infacks
0 Old Batavia Arrack, in pipes
Mace and Cloves, in boxes
0 1 so hhds. Jamaica Su^ar
50 do. do. Rum
Port Wine, in pipe., hhds. and qr. calks
Madeira, London particular, in pipes, very
superior
S a P r 'l 'B. dsw eoti7m
* Notice is hereby Given,
TH AT application has been made at the Bank of
the United States, for the renewal of the sol-
P lowing five Certificates of Bank Stock, left by the
. capture of the Brit; {1 Packet, Countess of Lcicef
ls ter—viz.
0 N0.3 701, containing s(hares') Issued to Henry Ca
r 3'°3 . 5 <l° J zenove Nephew&Co
73® * do. issued to Edwerds
and Co.
e 3*BS 5 do. issued (in lieu of
6509 to 6513) to Samuel and Henry 'Vaddiagton.
29J8 4 do. issued to Phyn, El
lice and Inglis.
All petfons concerned are therefore called upon
. to (hew cause why new Certificates should nojjbe
' ifTued agreeably to the said application.
April 14 eo6w
re Forty Dollars Reward.
0 '
| e OAN AWAY, on the 7th of April, a Negro
IV Man, named Qltfgrw, perhaps he may ; as.
by the name of Ghfgvui Lrc, or may change liis
name; he is about thirty one years of age, nearly
d fix feet high, has a fear in the upper part of his un
der lip, a small part being bitten out between the
3 " middle and the corner of his mouth (I believe en
the right fide), his left han» has he n very fort,
_ and was so at the time he ran away, by being burnc
some time past : he is a Pput, flrong fellow, nnrl
has been employed at a saw mill a Tew years: he
l- went away in company with a negro woman of
n Mr. Joshua Lingoe, of this county. It is luppofed
; they are gone into Delaware State. Any person
_ that fccures said Negro M»n in any gaol, that the
h fubfciiber shall get him again, (hall reteive tha
r< above reward. ESME BAYLY.
l'l Stat* of Maryland, 7
Somerfet County, april 10. j may 4 —4W
3 * WANTED
h A Good Cook—also a Mail
Seivant who underllands House work. None
but of good dura Her reed apply—Enquire at
this vflice. 6t may j
[ Volume XIII#Xfie <&wt te.
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY EVENING, Mat 12.
MESSAGE
Of the President qf the United States,
To both Houses of Congress,
May 4th, 1798.
(Cnvcluded from yeflerdays Gazette.)
Desirous of establishing, not the depen
dence of a weak on a powerful nation, tut
that real and cordial friendfhip, the willing
and spontaneous offering of generous minds,
which can only be lasting when evidenced to
be mutual, and can only be preserved when
bottomed onreciprocal justice, theunderfign
ed, will nowreprefent withcandorand frank
nefs the well founded complaints with which
they are charged.
These complaints consist :
Of claims uncontrov.erted by the govern
ment of France, but which remain unfatis
ficd, and
Of claims founded on captures and con
fiscations, the illegality of which has not
yet been admitted.
In the firft class are arranged
Firflty. Those whose property has been |
seized under the decree of the National Con
vention of the 9th May 1793.
Secondly. Those who are entitled to eom
penfation in ionfequence of the long deten
tion of their veflels at Botirdeaux in the
years 1793 and 1794.
Thirdly. The holders of bills and other
evidences of debts due drawn by the Colo
nial Adminiftrdtions in the Weft-Indies.
Fourthly. Those whose cargoeshave been
appropriated to public ufewithout receiving '
therefor adequate payment, and
Fifthly -Those who have supplied the
government under contradts with its agents
which have not yet been complied with on
the part of France.
These well founded claims of American
citizens, thus originating in voluntary and
important supples, in the forcible seizure
ef valuable property, accompanied with
promises of payment, and in injurious de
tentions. constitute a mass of debt which
the justice and good faith of the French
government cannot refufe to provide for and
which is too considerable to beunnoticed by
thrit of the United States. The undersign
ed are inftrudted to folicit-your attention to
this fubjedt, and they would persuade them
fclves that they do not solicit in vain. So
many circumstances concur to give force to
the application, that they leave it to your
government in the confidence thajt no addi
tional reprefeAtations can b? necessary.
They pass to complaints fti'l more im
portant for their amount, more interesting
in their more serious in their con
sequences.
On the 14th Meflidor, 4th yeat of the
French Republic, one and indivisible (July
2d 1796) the Executive. Diredtory decreed
".that all neutral or allied powers (hall with
out delay be notified that the flag of the
French Republic will treat neutral veflels
either as to confifcation, as to Tearches or
capture, in the fame manner as they shall
fuffe'r the English to treat them." .This de
cree, in any point of view in which it can
be considered, could not fail to excite in the
United States the most serious attention.—
It dispenses at once as they conceive with
the most solemn obligations which compadt
can create, and consequently asserts a right
on the part of France, to recede at her dis
cretion from any stipulations she mayhaveen
tered into. It has been demonstrated that
governments may by contradt change,as bet
ween themselves, the ruleseftablifhed by the
law of nations, and that such contradt be
comes completely oiM gatory on the parties,
though it can in no manneraffedt the rights
of others,yet bythisdecree allies with whom
such stipulations exist are to be treated,
without regard to such stipulations, in the
fame manner as they are treated by others,
who are bound by a different rule. This as
it refpedts the United States is the more un
friendly, because a readiness has been mani
fefted on their part so to modify by con
sent their treaty with France as to reinstate
the rules established by the Law of Nations.
The general terms too in which this de
cree is conceived, threatenedbut too certain
ly the mifchiefs it has generated, and the
abuses which have been pradtifed under it.
Neutrals are to be treated a 9 they shall per
mit the English to treat them. No rule ex
tradted from the pradtiee of England is laid
down, which might govern the cruisers of
France, or inftrutt the veflels of neutrals.
No principles are stated manifefting the opi
nion entertained of the treatment received
from England, which might enable a neutral
to controvert that opinion, and to shew that
the English were not permitted to treat its
flag as was fnppofed by the government of
France. To judge from the decree itfelf,
from any information given concerning it,
or from the pradtiee under it, those who
were to be benefitted by its abuse, were to
decide in what manner it should be executed
and the cniifer who (hould fall in with a
valuable vessel had only to conTult his own
rapacity, in order to determine whether an
English privateer, meeting a vessel under si
milar circumftaiu;#?, would capture and
bring hei into port. Multiplied exccffes and
accumulated vexations could not but have
been apprehended from such a decree, & the
fadt has realized every fear that was entain
tained concerning it. It has been con ftru
ed even in Europe to authorize the capture
and condemnation of American vessels for
the single circumflanci of their being deT
tined for a British port. At 110 period of
the war has Britain undertaken to exercise
such a pewer. At no period of the war has
(he affertcd such a right. It is a power
which prostrates every principle of national
f vereignty and to which no nation can sub
mit without relioquifhing at the fame time f
its bed interefU and facriflcing its cleared
rights. This power has been exereifed by
_ France on therich and unprotected commerce
of an ally, on the presumption that that
al'y was sustaining the fame injuries from
Britain, at a fime whert it is believed that
the depredations of that nation had ceased,
and the principle of compensating for them
j had been recognized.
, 1 In the Weft-Indies similar depredations
■ have been experienced On the Ift of Au
; gust 1796, the special agents of the Ex
ecutive Directory to the Windward Islands
decreed, that all veflels loaded with contra
band goods should be seized and c*nfifcated
' for the benefit of the captors.
: On the feventb Frimaire, sth year of the
I French Republic, one and indivisible. (27th
> November, 17961 the commission delegated
1 by the French Republic to the Leward Ifl
-1 ands, revived that the captains of the French
national veflels and.privateen are authorised
to flop and bring into the ports of the colo
ny American vefTels bound to English ports
or coming from the said ports.
On the 19th Pltfviofe, sth year of the
French Republic, one and indivisible, (Fe
bruary ift, 1797) Vidtor Hugues and Le
bas, the special agents of the Executive di
reftory to the Windward islands, passed a
decree, fubjedting to capture and confifca
tion neutral vefTels destined for the Wind
ward and Leeward Islands of America, de
' livered up to the English, and occupied and
defended by the emigrants. These ports
are said to be Martinico, St. Lucie, Toba
go, Demerara, Berbice, Effequibo, Port
au-Prince, St. Marks, L'Archaye, and
Jeremie. The decree alio fubje&s to cap
ture all vefTels which have cleared out for
the Weft-Indies generally.
The undersigned will not detain you ci
tizenminifter.forthejpurpofeof proving how
diredtly and openly these decrees violateboth
the law of nations and the treaty between
France and the United States.
They have been executed on the officers
and crews of the captured vefTels in a man
ner, by no means calculated to mitigate
their rigor. '
The decree of the fourteenth of Meflidor
was soon followed by another which hasfpar
ed but little of the American commerce, ex
cept what has fortunately efeapedthe pursuit
of the cruizers of France. On the twelfth
Ventofe, sth year, (2d March, 1797) the
Executive Directory considering the treaty
of amity, commerce, and navigation con
cluded at London the 19th November, 1794
between thefaid United States and England,
as containing concessions of privileges to
Britain which, under the treaty of Februa
ry 1778, might be enjoyed by this republic
alio, proceeds to modify the treaty between
France and the United States, by declaring
enemies goods in American bottoms liable
to capture and confifcation ; by enlargiug
the lift of contraband and by fubje&ing to
I punishment as a pirate any American citi
zen holding a cotrtmiffion given by the ene
mies of France, as well as every Teaman of
that nation, making a part of the crew of
enemies ships. The decree next proceeds
ta exa,d* fr*"r Americans,
been made necessary to establish the neutral
ity of foreign vefTels, generally, by the or
dimnce of the 26th of July, 1778, but
which had never been considered as applying
to the United [States] ; which required
papers their vefTels could not be supposed to
possess, and which the treaty between the
two nations was fnppofed to have rendered
tinneceiTary.
The basis taken by the Executive Direc
tory, on which to reft their modification of
the treaty of the sixth of February, 1778,
is that by the treaty of the nineteenth of
November, 1794 i particulnr favours in ref
pe3 of commerce and navigation have been gran
ted to England.
It has been demonstrated that no particu
lar favors in refpedt of commerce or naviga
tion, have heen granted to England. That
treaty has been shewn only to recognize, re
gulate, and moderate the exercise of the
rights before pofleffed, and before openly
acknowledged to be pofleffed—rights which
France and America had reciprocally ceded
to each other, without requiring, a 9 a con
dition of the ceflion, that either should com
pel England to form a similar ftipulatien.
But to admit for a moment that the trea
ty with England might be considered as stip
ulating favours not before pofleffed, yet the
American government did not so understand
that treaty, and had manifefted a disposi
tion to modify, by common consent, its re
lations with this republic, iri such manner
as to rein-state a rule, which has been vol
untarily changed. It cannot but be sincere
ly regretted, it seemed to indicate
an unfriendly temper, that France has deem
ed it more eligible to establish by force, in
opposition to her treaty, a principle which
she deemed convenient, than to fix that
principle on the Jfair basis of mutual and a
micable agreement.
But the clause under which these modi
fications are juftified is in these worfls .•
" The most Chriflian King and the United
States engage mutually not to grant any
any particular favor to other nations, ia ref
pedt to commerce and navigation which shall
not immediately become common to the
other party, who shall enjoy the fame favor
freely, if the conceflion was freely made, or
on allowing the fame eompenfation if the v
conceflion was conditional." If these ftipu-'
lations unequivocally amounted to the grant
of favors, still the grant is not gratuiteus.
The concefliogs on the part of the United
States are made on condition of similar con
ceflions on the part of Britain. If there
fore France chufes to consider them as mo- -
difications of the Treaty of 1778, she can '
only do it by granting the reciprocal condi- ,
lion ; on this supposition she has either of
the rules at her eledtion, but she cannot vary
from the firft without a compadt on her part i
to grant the reciprocal stipulation. Such a 1
compadt is in the nature of a national treaty. '
But the rules laid dowrt in the decree of '
1 2th Ventofe, sth year (March 2, 1797) as '
founded on the 17th, 18th and 21ft articles <
t of the treaty of the 19th of November '94
r are materially variant from those articles.
. To demonftrate,this it is c*nly necessary to
t contrail the rules of the decree with the ar
-1 tides of the treaty on which those rules are
t said to be founded.
Arliclts of the Treaty Rules ejlabli/hed by the
»f the nineteenth no~ arrcte of the Dircc
vember, 1794, as tory•
quoted by the Direc
' tory.
ARTICLE 17. RULE I.
It is agreed that in all According to the fe
i cases where velfels (hall venteenth article of the
becaptUred or detained treaty of London, of
1 on juJifu/Ac'wn of hav- the nineteenth of No
ing on board enemies' vember, 1794, all mer
property, or of carr.y- chandizeof th« enemy
' ing to the enemy any or merchandize n«t fuf
-1 of the articles which fciently proved to be
I are sontraband of war, neutral, laden under
the said vertels ftiall he the American flag,(hall
( brought to the nearest be confifcated, but the
ormoftconvenientport veflelonboardof which
and if any property of i: fiiaU be found, (hall
an enemyJhouldbefound be released andreftored
jon board such vessel, to the owner. Itisen
that partonly which be- joined on the cornmif
: ! longs to the enemy Jhall Caries of the Executive
\ be-made prize, and the directory to accelerate
vessel (hail beat liberty byallthemeant. in their
to proceed with the re- power, the decision of
mainder without any contests which (hall a
impediment. And it rife either on the valid
is agreed that all pro- ity of the prize-cargo,
per measures (hall be or on the freight and
taken to prevent demurrage,
in deciding the cases of
fh.'ps or cargoes so
brought for adjudica- -
tion ; and in the pay
ment or recovery of a
ny indemnification ad
judged or agreed to be
paii! to the owners or
matters of such (hips.
Actording to the article, when »n jufl suspi
cion of having on board enemy's property, or
of carrying to the enemy contraband of war, a
ve(Tel (hall be brought into port, that part only
which belongs to the enemy (hall be made prize,
according to the article, then the fa# whether
the property doei or does not belong 'to an ene
my is to be fairly tried. The party who would
e(labli(h the fad must proi'e it, The captor must
(hew the juflice of ths suspicion on which the
capture or detention was founded. The bur
then of the proof relts on him. If in truth
and in fad the property does not belong to an
enemy or is not proved to belong to an enemy,
it must be discharged. But the rule pursues a
different course. Tke rule declares that mer
chandize of the enemy or not fufficiently proved
to be neutral, laden under the American flag,
(hall be confifcated. The burthen of the proof
is Ihifted from the captor to the captured. The
qtleftion to be tried is not solely whether the
merchandize be in fad the property of an ene
my, but also whether it be fufficiently proved to
be neutral. The fuflciency of this proof is to
be ascertained, not b; general and fatisfidory
testimony, not by the great principles of trath
and the common uidfrftanding of mankind,
but by the «xhibitionaf certain papers demand
able at the will of oie of the parties, amj not
in the possession of tie other. This may be a
regulation which Fraice chooses to eflablifh ;
but certainly it is a regulation, essentially variant
from the article it pro'effes to referable.
ARTICLE 18. RULE ».
. In order to regulate According to the
what is in future toie ißth article of the trea
efteemed contraband of ty of London of the
-
under the said denomi- 1794,10 the articles de
nation (hall becomprif- clared contraband by
ed all arms and imple- the 34th article of the
meuts serving for the treaty of the 6th of
purposes of war, by February 1778, are
landorbyfea; as can- added the following ar
non, muflcets, mortars, tides:
petards, bombs, gre- Timber for (hip
nades, carcafTes, fau- building, pitch, tar &
cifles,carriagesforcan- rosin, copper in (hects,
non, musket rests, ban- fails, hemp and cord
doliers, gunpowder, age, and every thing
match, fait petre, ball, which fierves direEtlym
pikes, swords, head- indireSly for the arma
pieces, cuirasses, hal- mem and equipment of
berts, lances, javelins, veflels.unwrpught iron
borfe furniture, hold- and fir planks except
ed, belts, and general- ed. These several ar
ly all other implements tides (hall be confifcat
of war ; as also timber ed whenever they (hall
for (hip-building, tar be destined or attempt
or rosin, copper in ed to be carried to the
(heets, fails, hemp and enemy,
cordage, and generally
whatever may fevre di
re fily to the equipment
of vejfels, unwrought
iron and fir plank only
excepted.
The immense number of articles, which may
serve indiredly for the armament and,equip
ment of vessels, are made contraband by the rule
of the Diredory, though they arp not so by the
article it profeffes 10 cite.
RVIE 3.
It is likewise agreed According to the Jift •
that the fubjeds and article of the treaty of
citizens of the two na- London of the 19th of .
tions (hall not do any November, 1794.every
ads of violence agaiuft isdividualknown to be
each other, nor accept an American, who (hall
commiflions or inftruc- hold a commission giv- '
tions so to ad from aiy en by the enemies of 1
foreign princeior state France, as well as eve- 1
enemies to the partj ; ry seaman of that na- ,
nor (hall the enemes tion making a part of 1
of one of the parties the crew of enemies
be permitted to invte (hips, (hall by that ad '
or endeavor to inlift n be declared apirateand 1
their military fervwe treated as such without '
any of the fubjeds tr being allowed in any I
citizens of the otha* cafe to alledge that he |
party ; and the laws J- was forced to do it by
gainst all such offenes violence, menaces or •
and aggreflions (hall be otherwise. 1
pnndually«xecuted.— 2
And if any fubjed tr t
citizen of the said par
ties refpedively £hal .
accept any foreign com
miflion or letters or J
marque for arming «nr
vessel txi ad as a pri/*. 2
teer against the otier r
party, it is here by Jt- 1
clared to be lawful for ]
the said party t<r ttat <
and punifhthe said (ib
jed or citizen havng
such eommiflion or ;t- f
tersof mat que as a >i- f
rate. a
The government f the United State* has ne- £
ver formed any treat compreliending an article
in any degree fimila to this lule. It has never 1
assented to fueh flip lai ions as they relate to its
own citizens, or reaired them ?s they relate to C
those of other powei. The difference between V
the article and the rte requires uo comment.—
Nor will the rule bicornmented on. The un-
derfigned will onlyobfierv, that the article is f
j. by n > means uncommon, but is to be found in
1. mo* treaties of amity and commerce. The aift
0 article of the treaty wiih France, the 19th of
the treaty with the United Provinces, the 23d of
the treaty with Sweden', and the zcth article of
the treaiy with Priiflia, contain similar ftipula
tion-. It is not easy to conceive a reason why it
e (hould not also be inf«rted in a treaty with En
- gland, or why its insertion (hould give offence
to France.
But :he fourth rule of the decree is in its ope
ration the most extenlive 3nd the most seriously
deftruifttvc. That rule declares, that" confor
" mably to the law of the 14th February, 1793,
e the regulations of the lift of Odobcr, 1744,
f and of the 26th of July, 1778, coneerning the
- manner of proving the property of neutral (hips
" and merchandize, (hall be executed according
to their form and tenor.
" Every American (hip lhall therefore be a
e good prize, which (hall not have en board a lift
r of the orew in proper form, fach as is prefcrib
-1 ed by the model annexed to the trea'y of the 6th
: of February, 1778, the observance of which is
1 required by the ajth and 37th articles of the
' fame treaty.
I This rule requires that American (hips and mer
chandize, in order to prove the property to be A
- merican, (hall exhibit certain papers, and efperfal
: ly a role d'equipage, which are required of neutrals
; generally hy the particular marine ordinances of
- France, recited in tke decrees of the Djredory.
f But France and America havecutered into a solemn
treaty, one objed of which was to secure the vef
. fels of either party, which might be at peace, from
| the ernifers of the other which might b» engaged
in war. To effed this objed the contrasting par
ties have not referred each other to the particular
(latutes or ordinaaces of either government, but
have enumerated the papers which (hould bedeem
ed fufficient. They have done more : They have
prescribed the very form of the passport which
(hould establish the neutrality of the vessel, and
prevent her being diverted .from her course. The
25th and 27th articles of the treaty between the
two nations, which are quoted by the Diredory,
and are c«nfidered by the undersigned ascondufivc
on this fubjed, are in these words:
ARTICLE 25.
" To the end that all manner of diffen
tions and quarrels may be avoided and pre
vented on the one fide and on the other, it
is agreed that in cafe either of the parties
hereto (hould be engaged in war, the (hips
and vessels belonging to the fubjefts or peo
ple of the other ally must be furnilhed with
sea-letters or pafports. exprefling the name,
..propel ty and bulk of the ftiip, as also the
name and place of habitation of the mailer
or commander of the said ship, that it may
appear thereby '.hat the said (hip really and
truly belongs to the fubjefts of one of the
parties, which pafiport shall be made out
and granted according to the form annex
ed to this treaty, and they lhall likewise be
recalled every year, that is, if the ship hap
pens to rtturn home in the space of a year.
It is likewise agreed that such fhipa, beiHg
laden, are to be provided not only with pair
ports, as above mentioned, but also with
certificates containing the several particu
lars of the cargo, the place whence the ship
failed, and whither Ihe is bound, that so it
may be known whether any forbidden or
contraband goods be on board the fame ;
which certificates lhall be made out by the
officers of the place, whence the ship set
fail, in the accustomed form ; and if any
one lhall think it fit or advifeable_to
in the said the person to whom
—♦■re};u-ans on board bclUDjr, lie iiiay freely
do so."
ARTICLE 27.
" If the (hips of the said fubje&s, peo
ple er inhabitants of either of the parties,
lhall be met with either failing along the
coasts, or on the high seas, by any (hip of
war of the other, or by any privateers, the
laid (hips of war or privateers, for the a
voiding of any disorder, (hall remain out of
cannon (hot, and may fend their boats a
board the merchant (hip, which they (hall
so meet with, and may enter her to the
number of two or three men only, to whom
the matter or commandti of such ship or
vessel (hall exhibit his paflport, concerning
the property of the (hip, made out accord
ing to the form inserted in this present trea
ty , and the ship. when (he (hall have (hew
ed such paflport, (hall be free and at liberty
to pursue h<;r voyage, so as it (hall not be
lawful to molest or feareh her in any man
ner, or to give her «hafs or force her to
quit her intended course."
It will be admitted, that the two nations
pofiefs the power of agreeing that any pa- ]
per in any form (hall be the sole document, '
demandable by either from the other, to
prove the property of a veflel and cargo. ■
It will also be admitted, that an agreement j
so made becomes the law of the parties, 1
which must retain its obligation. j
Examine then the words of the compadt i
and determine by fair cotiftruftion what (
will fatisfy them. ,
The 25th article dates substantially the ]
contents of a paper, which is termed a sea- (
letter or paflport, and which "it is agreed
that in cafe either of the parties (hould be c
engaged in war, the Ihips and vsffels be- j
longing to the fubjefts or people of the o- 1
ther ally must be furniflied with." To c
what purpose are they to be furtiifhed with <
this sea-letter or paflport ? The article an- ]
fwers, " To the end that all manner of dif- v
fentions and quarrels may be avoided and 1
prevented, on one fide and the other, " that r
it Tnay appear thereby that the (hip really
and truly belongs to the fubjeds of one of c
the parties." '
But how will the paflport «< prevent and t
avoid all manner of diflentions and quarrels c
on one fide or the other," if ordinances, t
both prior, and subsequent to the treaty,
are to be understood as controling it, and as i
requiring other papers not contemplated io t
he public agreement of the two nations ? f
How is it to appear from the paflport, t
that the (hip really and truly belongs to 1
the fubjefts of one of the parties," if it is r
denied that the paflport is evidence of that f
fa ft, and contended that other papers, not ]
alluded to in the treaty, (hall be adduced to r
prove it ?
But the 27th article is still more explicit, c
It declares that when a merchant-lhtp of one (
of the parties lhall be Wfited by the Ihips of t
war or privateers of the other, «'the com- 1
mander of such (hip or vgflel (hall exhibit
nis paflport, conoerning the property of the t
>hip, made out according to the form infer- ]
i ted in the present treaty, a»l the ft;*
1 when (he shall have /hewed such passport,
? shall be free and at liberty to pursue her voy
p age, so as it (hall not be lawful to molest or
search her in any manner, or to give chafe,
t or force her to quit her intended course."
■ What is it that shall prove the property of
: the v«ffel? The treaty answers, the pass
port. But'the decree of the dire£k>fy re
' quires in addition certain other papers, per
fe&ly diftinft from the passport. The trea
ty declares, that'? the ship whea (he shall
, have (hewed (not the role d'equipage or a
ny other paper, required by the particular
* ordinance! of either nation, but) "such
passport, (hall be free and at liberty to pilr
fue her voyage, so as it shall not be lawful
I to molest or search her in any manner, or to
give her chafe or force her to quit her inten
ded course." Yet the vessels of America,
i after exhibiting " such passport" are not
" free arid at liberty to pursue their voy«
age they are " molested ;" they are
" chafed," they are " forced to quit their
intended course ;" they are captured and
i confifcated as hostile property.
It is alledged that the form of the pass
port, which is annexed to the treaty, man
ifefts that certain ads were to be performed
by the person to whom the passport is deliv
ered, and that fach person ought to prove
the performance of those ads.
But the treaty, far from requiring such
proof, absolutely dispenses with it. The
treaty declares that the passport shall itfelf
evidence the property of the vessel and se
cure it from molestation of any fort. By
coufent of the parties then the passport is
evidence of all that either party can require
from the other. Neither the right to give
such consent, or the obligation of a com
pad formed upon it can, as is conceived,
ever be denied, nor can the form of the
passport, whatever it jnaj" he. change the
compad.
But let the words of th.e model be exam
ined. They are " AJtous ceux qui ces pre
fentes verront : foit taotoire que faculte et
permiflion a ete accordee a maitre
ou commandant du navire appelle
de la ville de de la capacite de
tonneaux ou environ, fe trouvant
prefentement dans le port de
qu' apres que son navire a ete vifite et avant
son depart, il pretera ferment entre let
mains des officiers de la marine, qui le dit
navire appartient a un ou plufieurs fujets de
dont l'ade sera mis a la fin des
prefentes ; de meme qu'il gardera.les or
donnances et regleraens maritimes, et re
mettra une lifte fignee et confirmee par t«.
moins, contenant les noms et furnoms, les
lieux de naiffance, et la demeure des per
fonnes compofant l'equipage d» son navire,
et de tous ceux qui embarqueront, lefqoels
ilne recevra pas a bord fans eonnoiffance et
permiflion des officiers de marine ; et dans
| ch'aque port ou havre, il montrera la prefente
permiflion aux officiers et judges de marine."
It is material to observe, that the model
requires the oath coneem«"g the property
Oi me veltel to be annexed to the paffportj
but does not nwy certified,
or the annexation of any paper whatever.
Why this difference ? It is a solemn proof
of that for which the article stipulates and
therefore the model expresses that the evi
dence of this faA shall be annexed, but it
does not require the produdion of the evi
dence of any other "fad.
It seems then tc be demonstrated that ■
the sea lettei or passport, a model of which
is annexed to the treaty, is by solemn agree
ment to be received by each party as eon
clufive tcftimony, that the vessel producing
such passport is the property of a citizen of
the other, and is consequently to continue
her voyage without molestation or hin
drance.
But let it be supposed that the treaty on
this fubjed was less conclusive, and that its
ftipulationshad beed ambiguously expressed;
yet it is certain that it has been uniformly
understood by both parties, as th& urider
figned have expounded it, and that neither
France nor the United States, previous to
the complained of, confidcred the
vessels of either nation, producing the pass
port agreed on, as liable to capture for want
of a role d' equipage.
1 or more than four years after her treaty
with the United States, France was enga
ged in a war with Britain, and in the course
of that time it was never suggested that a
role d'equipage wasneceffary for theproted
ion of an Ameriean vessel. Itdoes not weak,
en the argument that the United States
were also parties to the war. The princi
ple assumed is, that without the produdion
of the papers required by the decree, the
vessel docs not appear to be, and cannot be
considered as American property. If this
principle be corred, it would not cease to
apply because the United States were enga
ged in the war. Was America even enga
ged in the war on the part of France, a
British vessel car ying American colours
would not be secured by the flag she bore.
It would be necessary to prove by her pa
pers, or other admiflible testimony that the
vessel was American property. If this fad
cannot appear without a role d'equipage
while the United, States are at peace, nei
ther could it appear without the fame evi
dence if the United States were parties to
the war.
About four years of the present war had
also elapsed before this conflrudion of the
treaty, at the fame time so wonderful and
so ruinous, had disclosed itfelf. In the course
of that time the ports of France were filled
with the vessels of the United States. Very
many of them failed under contrads made
for the government itfelf by its minister in
Philadelphia. No. one of them possessed a
role d'equipage ; no one of them was consi
dered on that.accoSnt as being liable to con
demnation. Indeed, in fame instances, ves
sels have been captured and discharged al
though this paper was not among those be
longing to the (hip.
Such a long course of pradice appears
to have evidenced unequivocally the sense
France on ih's fubjed.It is too apparent to be quetlioued for a
moment, that on the part of the United
States no suspicion had ever been entertain
ed that such a paper eould have been re
quired. A role d'equipage could have been
obtained with as much facility as that pafT
port foi which the treaty stipulates Could
it have been imagined that American veflels
'incurred the possible hazard of being retar
ded only one day in a voyage for want of
such paper, it would in every instance have
been supplied. No vessels would have fail
ed without it.
Your own mind. Citizen Minister, will
fugged to you, with irresistible force, the
extieiue hardship ofthus puttings new con
flruction on along existing contrail, or of
giving a new and unexpected ex'enfion to
ancie t municipal regulations, and of con
demning thereby veflels taken on the high
seas for want of a paper not known to be
required, when they failed out of port. If
a role d'equipage was really considered by
France as necessary evidence of any fart, the
establishment of which was deemed eflVntial,
common ufatje and those plain principles of
jufticc which all nations refpeft, in
■difpentibly requite that the regulation thonld
firft be made known to a neutral and friend-
Jy nationby other means than by the capture
»nd confiscation of its pronerty. If this
nieafure had been announced to the govern
ment of the United States, before ii had
been put in praitfce, and American veflels
had failed without a role d'equipage. they
would have taken upon themselves the ha
zard of such a procedure. But in a mo
mem when the ocean is covered with peace
ful merchantmen, purftiing a just and law
ful commerce, tobring intofudden operation
a nieafure which had never before been ap
plied to them, which had for so many years
flepf unheard of, a"d by the force of this
nituMwii to-eofffifcate unsftiardsd proper
ty which had been trusted to the seas, undet
the faith offolemn andexifting treaties, and
without conjecture that this, more than any
other formaly, would have been required,
ft to impose on unoffending individuals a
ruin from which no wife precaution*, no hu
man forcftght could possibly have I'roteited
them.
On this fuhjeft then the undersigned ap
peal with confidence to the juilice and e
quity of the French government.
But cmld it bt conceded for a moment
that the Executive Directory might right
fully modify the treaty of France witS the j
United States by that of the United States
with Britain, and might rightfully require
a role d'equipage in order to eltablifh the
neutrality of a vefTel, for want of which the
vessel might be confifcated, yet, the cargo
being proved to be Beutral ought to be fafe.
According to the law of Nations, the
goods of an~enemy found on board the ship
of a friend ar« liable to capture, and the
goods of a friend found on board the ship of
an enemy are fafe. The United States and
France hive contented to change this rule
as between themfel*<»a. They have agreed
that the goods of an enemy faucet
the vctfeh of either party thall be fafe, and
rhat the goods of either found on board the
vessel of an enemy thall be liable to capture.
Tlie one part of the rule is in consequence
of and dependent on the other. The one
part cannot on any principle of jnftice be a
bandoned while the other is maintained.
In their treaty with England the United
States retain unchanged the principle of the
law of nations. If.France modifies her trea
ty in this rctpeet by that of England, she
ought to'ake the principle intire. If in
' cons rmity to the treat* between the Uni
ted States and England, France claims the
right of taking enemies property found on
board an American thip, then, in conform
ity with that treaty al.l'o, France ought to
spare American property, found on board
an enemy's (hip. If, therefore, this extra
ordinary petition could be maintained, that
an American ship without a role d'equipage
becomes the thip of an enemy, still the car
go, bei- g proved to be the property ot a
friend, ought, on the principle of modify
ing the treaty between the two nations by,
that with England, to have been fellored
to the owners.
The result of these regulations baa been
the most ex ten live and universal devastation
of the American commerce. Not only ves
sels bound to and from the enemies of France
but vessels bound to and from her allies, and
to and from her own ports have been fdzed
and confifcated.
The inevit able consequence has been, that
dired* commerce between the two nations is
almoil annihilated, and that the property of
American citizens has bren taken to a much
larger amount than would have betn possible
in a ftste of adtual war.
Yet the government of the United States,
wishing, if it b* possible, to avoid even de
fenfive measures, has fought assiduously and
unremittingly, though hitherto without
success, for such peaceful and amicable ex
planations as might do away exitling animo
sities, and restore between the two repub
lics that harmony which it so truly delires.
America has accustomed herfelf to per
ceive in France or.lv the ally and the friend
Consulting the feelings of her own bosom,
she has believed that between republics an
elevated and refined friendfhip could exist,
and that free nations were capable of main
taining for each other a real and permanent
affedtios. If this pleating theory, erected
wit'ifo much care and viewed with so much -
delight, has been impaired by experience,
yet the hope continues to be cherished that
this circwtnftance does not necessarily involve
the nppofite extreme. It is believed that
there exists no fufficient cause for solid and
permanent enmity between France and the
United States, but that on the contrary the
interetls of both would be promoted by that!
friendly intereourfe, which a reciprocal ob
servance of the great and immutable
principles of jnftice would certaiply etla-'
blifh and can alone prefer»e. Under this
imprefljon America resists the opinion that
the present ttate of things lias grown out '
of a digested system to which France de-
signs to adhere. She wlfliej and she endea
vors to persuade herfelf that temporary
causes, which too often produce effects a
found and just policy mult reprobate, con
nedted with a mifconilrudtion of the con
dudt of her government, as well as of the
motives on which it h.s adted, may have
occasioned those very serious aggreffior.s of
which (he complains. She recedes there
fore, even under the prcfTure of these ag
' greffions, (lowly and with difficulty from
the attachments the has formed. So inter
twined with every ligament of her heart
I have been the chords of affedtion which
bound her to France, that only repeated
and continual ads of hostility can tea- them
afundcr.
i The government of the United States,
therefore, still searches the means of ter
minating peacefully, and in a manner which
ought to be mutually fatisfadtory, the ca
lamities of ihe moment, and or averting
: the still greater calami ies which may be re
fervedfor ihe future. N.-t even the dis
couraging and urtufual events which had
pr«crded the prefsnt efTort to negociate
■ could deter that government from repeating
I its endeavors for the preservation of amity
and peace. „Three citizens ot the United
States have been deputed as envoys extraor
i dinary and ministers plenipotentiary to the
French republic. Their inftrudtions au-
I thorize and diredt them to review the exift
i ing treaties between the two nation, and to
remove by all proper means, tha inequalities
which have .grown out «f the stipulations
of those treaties, in confeqnence of the re
fufal of England to adopt the principles they
contain. They are also directed to give fair
and complete explanations of the conduit
of the government they represent ; to state
fully and truly the heavy injuries which
their fellow eititens have plained ; and to
«ik from the equity of a great and magnan
imous republic that compensation for those
injuries which we flatter ourselves, their
juttiec will Rot refufe and their liberal policy
will not hesitate to give.
Bringing with them the temper of their
government and country, fearchitjg only for
the means of effecting the objedts of their
million, they have permitted no personal
considerations to influence their conduit,
but have waited under cireumftances beyond
measure embarrafling and unpleasant, with
that refpedt which the American govern
ment has so uniformly paid to that of France
! for permiflion to l#y before you, citizen
minister, these important communications
with which they have been charged.
Perceiving 110 probability of being allowed to
enter, in the wt\ial forms, on those dil'cuflisni
which might tend to restore harmony between,
the two republics, they hav« deemed it most ad
vileable, even under the circumstances of infor
mality which attend the measure, to addrefsto
your government, through you, this cindid re
view of the conduct, and.this true representa
tion of the sentiments and wifliei of the govern
ment of the United States. They pray that it
may be received in the temper with which it is
written, and considered as an additional effort,
f rawing out of a dii'uoliii . to the
ovcrtuneiit people of America", so «um
vate and restore, if it be poflibte, harmony be
tween the two republics. If, citizen minister,
there remains a hope that these desirable objedti
can be effeftesl by an? means which the United
States have authorized, the undersigned will still
lolicit and will still rcfpe&fully attend the deve
lopement of those means.
if on the contrary na fiich hope remains ;
they have only to prav that their return to their
'own country may be facilitated j and they will
leave France with the most deep-felt regret that
neither the real and fiocere f'ne ndfhip, whith
[he government of the United States has sb uni
formly and unequivocally Uifplayed for this
great republic, nor its continued efforts to de
monstrate the purity of its condudt and inten
tions, can proteit its citizens, or preferv* them
from the calamities which they h Jve fought by i
jult and upright contuft td avert.
The underlined pray you, citizen
to accept the affiirances of their perfect refpeit
and conlideration.
Paris, January 17th, 1798,
in the 2 id year of American
Independence.
Tranjlated rxtrafl from the Bulletin dti Lois,
No. 178, printed at Paris, and enclofti with
the quadruplicate of toe Envoys' Utter, A'o. 6.
Laiu relative to vessels laden <witb t ngtijh mor
tbanirze of the zfth Ntvofe, (ttb year, (1 ttb
Jan Tib-)
The council of Ancients, adopting the reafouj
for the declaration of urgency, tußicb precedes
tbe rrfo.ution herein after contained, approves
the atS cf urgency. t
Here follows tbe tenor of tbe declaration of
urgency, and oj tbe refotution of tbe sid A'ivofe,
[1 itb 'Jannary 1798]
The council of Five Hundred, after having
beard tbe report of a Jpecial committe upon the
mejfageoj tbe Executive Directory of tbe 1 stb
Xii'ofe,\_*tb Jan J relative to EngHJb merchan
dise ;
Conjidering, that tbe inter:]} of tbe Republic
demands the moji prompt measures againfi all
vessels which may be lauded therewith ;
Declares, that there is urgency.
7be Council, after having declared tbe urgtn
cy t refuives as fallows :
ARTICLE 1.
Tbe character of vessels, relative to their
quality of neuter or enemy, Jhall be determined
ht their cargo ; in conjequence, every veffet found
atjea, loaded in whole or in part with merchan
dise tbe producfio'i oj England or of ber pofjef
fioHS- Jball be declared good prize, whoever the
owner of theft goods or merchandize may ue
ARTICLE a.
Every foreign vessel which, in tbe course of
ber voy'*te. Jball have entered into *n Envlifb
par t, /ball not be admitted into a port of tbe
French Republic, except in cafe of nectjjity ; in
übitb cafe Jhe Jball be bound to depart Jrom the
said port as Jocn as tbe cau/es of ber entry Jhall
hccx cec.Jed.
ARTICLE 3- "
Tbe present resolution Jball be printed.
( Signed J
Boulay (of la Meurthe) President.
Guillemardet, 1 Sccrelanes>
Roe.ters, J
After a fecund reading tbe council if Ancients
approves the above refotution. Tbe i*)tb of A';-
voi"e, Jixtb year oj tbe republic (iStb
ylznueiry, 1798. J CSigned J '
Marragor., President.
Et. Laveaux Kauffmann, 1
Menuau, >■ Secretaries
Meric, J
Tbe Executive DireSory orders, that tbe above
• la-.u fb.dl be printed, executed, and tilt tt Jhalt
be feuled tvitb t ! ie fralof tbe repnilie.
Done at the national palace of tbe ex
ecutive direclfy, tftb S'rvofi, fixtb
year of the French republic, one and indi
vifihlrA (nth January, 1798J
For a true espy ;
( Signed J
P. Barras, President.
By the Fxecuifc* Direflatj,
Tbe Secretary-General, L ACS. IDE,
And sealed v. :lb the seal of tbe Republic.
1 By this day's Mail.
I ;
DUBLIN, March rj.
1 The Privy Council has h-rn fitting th*fe two
days on the examimtion of the pril'oners who were
t apprchtntWd on Monday lad, and we understand
that they hare all been committed on ehstges of
High Treason. We hive not Seen able to al'cer
-1 tain the precise nature of the evidence on which
■ 'they have been charged, but wc undarftand that
; the papers found upon the provincial committee of
Leinfler, and upon the pcrfon of Mr. Bond, are
compltat with rd'petS to the treasonable nature cf.
■ their meeting, and the advanced of the
open and dire.il rebellion which was meditated,
' and which we trull by tbe vigilance and exertions
of government will be entirely difeated. Weun
dcrUand the meeting at Mr. Bond's were furprifrd
I at an early hour, so that poQibly all the delegates'
were not arrived, but we have ohtained a lift of
' such a# appear.
! Barlow, Peter Ivers, Laurence Griffin—Qu.-en»
. Co. Laurence Kelly, Peter Bannon—KiWr.*, O.
Cummin*—Meath, Thomas Reynolds, Charles
Martin—Co. Dublin, Fat. Devhie, James Rose
City Dublin, Thomas Traynor, Edw. Huilfon.—
1 Secretary, John M'Cann, head clerk to Henry
1 Jackson.
Oliver Bond, and Dr. M'Nevin (who is suppos
ed to have spent part of last summer at Hamburg)
have b«en also examined and committed.—Mr.
Jacilon and his Son, Mr. John Sweetman and
connfellor Emmet, have not yet undergone an ex
amination.
1 When the arrest of the persons now in custody
, was reported on Monday last, a conftdt-rable ap
pearand of alarm aud agitation was difterniblc
throughout the city ; many pcrlons notorious for
seditious prailices were seen JcolleAiug in various
parts, in such numbers as to promise some immedi
ate and violent effort. The firft ctfay of theiv
strength was made by insulting those who « ere oh»
noxious from nnk or loyalty. In Parliament ftrect
an attempt of this kind was made upon the lord
chancellor as he paired on the way to his court, but
by his own decifivafpiiit,, and the prompt fupp»rt
of several loyal gentlemen, who immediately as
sembled round him, the malice of treason was
frullrated. It was then seen that but one resource
of fafety remained to the well affeAed, and that
resource was inflantly adopted—the yeomanry
flew to arms. In the short space of an hour not
lefsthan two hundred of the lawyers corps appear
ed on their parade; the sttorni.s were n»t lefa
prompt or numerous; B*re»ford's cavalry w«re
equally forward; the divisional corps, the callage
regiment, the St. Sepulchre's, the liberty rangers,
uppefcrofs, &c. &c. all were arrayed with a dis
patch which it is hardly poflible to conceive ; 4
I clifpatch the mere admirable, as the effort was pure
ly voluntary, founded no: apon orders or upon
summons, but flpringing from the imperiousand
obvious danger, which lta-ed in tht face of every
man who felt the sensation of loyalty, and percei
ved the unusual agitation of the difaffe&ed.
It is glorious for the city of Dublin to record,
that upon such a 1 trying eccafton, and in so brief a
space of time, a- voluntary, unfummontd attend
ance of fifteen hundred of the citizens wera to be
seen ia arms. rent* A ft t-in t.~.
1 111- : -.it i» glorious uot only from the foul in
spiring confidence which the circumtlance has giv
en to loyalty, but as a full, firm and hou.rable re
futation of th« abominable flinders propagated in
the seditious papers against our loyal aud gallant
yeomanry.
Nor fttould we forget upon this ocrafion the ar
dent and honest loyalty of th* soldiers of the gar
rifen. Parties 0/ the sth dragoons Were dispersed
throughout the streets of th« city in such a way,
as to reflrain the lead effort at disturbance , the :
the Armagh, Cavan, King's County , North Cork, (
Dunbarton, and other regiments, were under arms J
and appeared only anxious for a fair opportunity of
evincing their courage and loyalty, againll any
who should dare to carry their seditious attempts
ir.toas)sof treasonable iufurrtCiion.
While the Yeomany were waiting on their
parades for neeeflary orders, it was pleaiing
to obftrvi: that fevtral country gentlemen
were every moment failling into the ranks in
their refpeftive uniforms ; and it was truly
delightful to contemplate the chearful and 1
animated countenances of our brave Protest- ,
ors, arrayed in the common ca life of Truth
and Honour against Sedition and Rebellion.
Nor did Sedition dart? to raise her head
! againll such an host. The disappointed Agi
; tators sneaked into their lurking places, and
bid their d minified heads, curling the ill
fortune which had fallen upon their ma'tig- '
nant projefts ofconfufion and infurre&ion. |
The Yeomanry were however directed to I
take upon therafelves the protedlion of the i
. city for that and ihe ensuing night, a fcr
vice which they undertook and performed
wtth the fame alacnty and f*ccefs to which
the City of Dublin owed its fafety and tran- ;
quility in the course of last May and June. !
Parties of horse and foot were according- j
ly established throughout the different quar- j
tens of the city on Monday and Ttiefday j
evening ; so that the fame streets in which
it was last week a fervicc of danger to walK
even at noon day, were rendered so tran
quil, that a child might have traversed.them
in the midst of the night.
Tuesday the Superintcndant Magistrate
having received information that The Press
was to be reprinted on the night of that
day, in the name of a new Proprietor, against
whom there were charges of a serious na
ture, \Vent to the Printing office of Stock
dale, in Abbey llreet, and seized a'confi- !
derable quantity of the firft impressions of
the Paper, and a great part of the printing
materials.
-For Sale,
Tws cases of Scotch Threads,
Well aflorteJ, and entitled to Drawback.
Apply at No 5, Scuth Water Street,
may 11 *jt
A few Copies
Of the DISPATCHES from the A
merican Envois at Paris, communicated to
Cottgrtft in the Prejident's Message of the
injf. may be had at this Office.
Furnished Chambers—7o Let.
THOSE Gentlemen, Members of Congress and
others, wishing to engage for the next fcfiion
of Congress, Chambers, fnmifted in a modern
IHIe, and in a very pleasant and central part of J
the city, may hear oi them by as plying at the i
office of this Ga2«:tc. cciw may 10. (J
Xje <sa3ttte*
? ' 1 ' 1 '■■■■■■ f. r I I'
PHILA DELPHI A ,
SATURDAY EVENING, M*r ia-
APPOJN fMENTS—by authority.
Joseph Hopkinson, of Pennsylvania,
Commiifioner for holding a treaty with
: the Oneida Indians. r
Winthrop Sargent, of the Nort
h Territory, Governor 6f the
Mississippi Territory.
John Steel, of Virginia, Secretary
I of ditto.
Peter Bryan Bruin, of rhc Miffif
i fippi Territory, to be second Judge of
. ditto.
Daniel Tilton, of New Hampfliire,
third Judge of ditto.
Gerald Bryan, of Pennsylvania, se
cond Mate of a Revenue Cutter.
Yefterdav, the House of Reprefentativesof
the United States again went into a committee
of the whole on the bill for authorising the
President of the United States to ruilir a pro.
vilional army, when Mr. Dawson moved tw
amend the amendment proposed by the fe
led committee, by the following
words— 44 or of imminent danger tjfj'yct inwji
on, difcwcred, in bis opinion, ttcxtjl.'' This
motion was negatived, 4S to 41. Mr. Sew
all then propoled, inllead of the President
having the power to raise this army for three
years, to insert the following—before the next
fejfttsH if Congress tvkick is or shall be appointed
bvlaiv. Alter undergoing several variations
tjie proposition was at length agreed to in the
following words—before tbe next fej/ion of Con
gr*f'•
Mr. Sitgreaves n«xtmosi?d toftrike out
the fallowing words from the bill, with the
intention of inferring nothing in "their place,
with a view that the arisy might be immedi
ately raifed—n-henevei he /ball judge tbe public
fafety requires tbe measure. The quettion for
tlrik»ng out was carried, but they were sup
plied by the words recommended by the fe
fc£t committee, viz. 44 in tie eve/it of a decla
ration of wir again/! tbs United Stares, tr of
actual brvafton of their territory by a foreign pow
er, or of imminent danger offucb inuq/ion, difco
'vered, in bis opinion, to exist," OS votes being
for it. The next propolition of the seleCt
committee was to reduce the number of men
to be raised, from 20,000 to 10,000. Mr.
Gallatin moved to reduce them to 5,000.
•This motion was negatived, 47 to 41, and that
for inserting 10,000 instead of 10,000 carried,
by 54 votes being in its favour. Some dif
cullion the* took place on the propulition for
giving the President power to call out the
militia in detachments, not exceeding 10,000
men each, to be trained and dil'ciplined ; but
some doubts of a couliitutional nature being
suggested, the committee rose, reported pro
gtefs, and had leave to fit again. On motion
of Mr. Harper, who spoke of fomejmfinefs
which would require tne attention of the
committee of ways and means this day, the
House adjourned till Monday.
£xrract or a IfTrtf from a gentleman in New
York, who arrived from Ireland in the
Chesapeake.
14 While we were at Cork, a conspiracy was
discovered of great magnitude. Lord Edward
Fitzgerald, counsellors M 4 Niel, Ewett, and
Sampson, See. were found in the a£t of fitting
as the DIRECTORY OK IRELAND, with
all the commitlions for the Navy and Army
I ligned and disposed of, but a week before St.
j Patrick's day, the day fixed on for a general
j matracre. Fitzgerald and Sampson eicaped,
i through one fideol" th« coach, while the offi
cers were entering at the other. They will,
however, it is not'doubted, be apprehended.
The others were secured. Nothing further
had tninfpired whets.we came off." ,
"7he above intended huftnefs- s of majfnere is
called in the Aurora of this morning, 44 a gen
eral rising of the ftoj'le,"
Died yefterdavmorning at ten o'clock, in the
| 13th year of her age, after a lingering illness,
which Ihe bore with the greatest fortitude,
' Miss Mary Connelly, daughter of John
Connelly, of this city, a young lady who pro- .
mifed fair to be an ornament to her sex, and
comfort to her more afflicted parents.
We learn with pleasure that the ex
cellent diicourfes delivered by the Rev.
Dr. Green and the Rev. Mr. Abercrom
j bie, on the national Fast Day, are pre
paring for the Press, and will speedily
Ibe publilhfed. The decided, and what
is more honorable, the early stand maue
, by these divtnes, against the inroads of
| an infernal spirit of atheism and anarchy,
j cloaked under the garb of philosophy,
| will justly endear their names to every
lover of his country, and cause them to
be handed to posterity with distinguish
ed applause, as conspicuous aflertors of
American Independence.
MR. FENNO,
Be pleased to publish the following
letter from Rome, dated 27th Dec. '97.
"On the 7,Bth December, at 3 o'clock,
j in the afternoon, a mob of discontented
people began to revolt against this gov
ernment, which took place before the
palace of the French ambaflador ; they
tried to disarm the troops of the lines in
their quarters, but they were repulsed
with loss ; mean time a French general,
by jpame M. Dieufaux, (or Duphot) the
FrenchambalTador, andlive other French
men, went down from dinner with their
naked sabres, took off their hats, and
put them on the points, crying, liberty
and equality ; at this emotion the troops
fired on the mob, and the general recei
ved a wound ; he finding himfelf so
wounded, began to make the best of his
sabre against the cavalry, which came to
help the infantry ; they fired on the said
general, and he was killed on the spot ; i
* in this adh'on 15 Romans wet • kiflvd»
but ncnc of the fbidwrs. The French
ambnffidor, at 5 o'clock the following
nxjrr.ing, left this place with all his fa■>
mily for Ti.rcany. The Pope's duigci*'
ous fute of health renders the fate of
this tHte still very prccarioiui."., •
t London accounts to the 19th March
are received at Alex:W.Jria. Commodore
k Warren's letter Hates the number of vefl
fels captured by him amounts to Eleven
only. No Frigate was taken.
FEDERAL GRENADIERS.
es* The gefctlemen compoiing this
• new corps, as alio all those disposed to
join it, are requeued to alTemble on
Monday evening, May 14, 8 o'clock, at
Ogden's tavern, in Chefnut near Third-
Street.
N. B. Gentlemen of grenndier-fize
are particularly invited.
CHARLESTON, April 27.
ednefday, in the afternoon, capt.
Sheffield," of the Maria, from New-
ork, tell in with a French privateer,
oft Romain, the captain of which de
sired him to heave to, and receive on
board the captain and crew of the ihip
Favorite, from Charleston, which he
had taken the' Monday before, on her
voyage for England and a market. Capt.
Sheffield complied with the request of
the captain of the pritatper; captain Jer
sey of the Favorite, and his crew, (ex
cepting the mate and two hands) with
their baggage, were accordingly bit-ought
on board his lhip, in the privateer's barge
and have arrived here with him. The
privateer was twelve days from Cape
Francois. She is called the Merfiiain,
mounts fix iron guns, but shews five of
a fide, and had about <so men. Some
of the crew of ths* Favorite were inform
that there were five or fix other priva
teers on this coast, and that all veilels
bound to England would be captured
that they fell in with.
FOR SALE,
About 660 boxes of fine Spanish
gunpowder,
Containing ico lbs. each.
Apply at No. 13, corner of Arch and Front ftretti.
. . may ' §tw
GANNON,
Musket and Pistol Cartridge Papers,
A LARGE ASSORTMENT
/, ready for fate by Will.am Young,
BockfelerNo. 52 . Second Strut, the
corner of Chefuut Jlreet.
OF WHOM MAV BE HAD
AJ . " £ Its UVJer and Disci.
pl.no.f the Troops./ ,b. tW .S, uto —r« h
'""*f *J >"<c„nm s tbt Militia, trice
50 cents ; do. large prints 67 cents.
w. Young,
Ha,fir fair, tfrm.Jor cajb or nevocMU
Large writing, printing & drafting paper,
f"'" L " J 4 W'f /«'.
■ lifu \ " «•*, rvvfirs, tuba,
•<kfa,uts, but lead not,. f uilU, ruUri,
thtmattmj<njtrumenti % gutter fiaUe, *
Jim nencruAtmM,, /n-W, india rabber and hi.
"■ay I a '
J _____ pati^iv
United States, I,
Pennfylvanin Diftria. J
1 N purluanee of a writ to me direfled from the
1 Honorable Richard Peter., Efq Judge of the
.i d Ua e u »wed States, in and for
the Pem.fylvaoia DiOrifl, will be ncpoferf to pnh
r ok-.*V? C , l y ierch; ""»' Ooffc-Hoßfei,, the City
of V hiladelphia ot, >v ei l ne fday the 16th May in
ilant, at lio'cloil at noon,
The Brigantine called the
c H A i< I o T T El
\* ci With all arj lingular her tackle
apnareUnd furniture, as tjiey now are—The said
Brignntme having been cocdemnc'd to pay the ma*
riners waives &.c.
„ WILLIAM NICHOLS, MM.
Marlhall J
May 10,1798. J
JL B The inventory may be fe.n at my office.
For Sale,
rhecargoofthebrigAmericanfromLao-uira,
CONSISTING OF .°
Ca*-accas Cocoa.
Henry P/ji/ip s ,
No. m, South Fourth Street.
"Pr.l «
New Publication.
A Sen/It/e, Seasonable and Spirited
address,
Written by a Citizen of Philadelphia—entitled,
" What is our Situation ?
AND
What our Profpe&s ?"
A few Paget for Americans.
For Sale by WILLIAM YOUNG,
Corner ot Chefnut and Second Ilrects
And atthe Office of the Editor, il 9 Qhefout fir
( Price three Jixteentbi of a dattarj
£ xtravSt from the above.
" When hour by hour we are yielding
po.nt by point ; relinquishing oAe right to
day and preparing to facrifice another to- .
morrow, these generous friends fread rap.d-
Jy on our steps, and every new conceflion
but opens a new demand. Rapacity prows
more mfolent by uninterrupted success, and
invites depredation-Where
will this end i What offering will g*>r K e the
appetite of plunder or ,ppeaf., tl.f raj{e C
of unrefifted hoftiht/? No civilized nation
has ever before been guilty of s uc h outrage
and inl lence, no free nation has ever be
fore endured them."
"Madeira Wine. L
A few pipes of remarkably fine Madeira, fir
for immediate use, and at a reduced pr,e f -F„
f "s, mmmW"
cUwAlex. J. Miller James Davis,
Having entered into'partuerlhip under the firm •/
Alexander J. Miller Ssf Co.
INFOK.M their friends in town and country, that |
they have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South t rent Street, Philadelphia ; whera
they now have, and intend keceping a general af
fajtment of India, German, Irijt, French and Bri
li/h Mannfafluresfor sale, on advantageous termr
for cash or a frort credit.
February 19 ' §tf
JUST RECEIVED,
FROM rORT-AV-PKINCt,
And FOR SALE, by Ibe SUBSCJtICIXS,
no hhds. Coffee
46 tierces do.
100 barrels do.
100 bags do. f
no hogfheatft of Muscovado Sugar
80 barrels of do.
40 hogfreads of Molafflti
4 bales of Cotton
1 hogftieads of Cocoa
WILLINGS £5? FRANCIS,
Penn-llreet. '
march 11. $
~~~ FOR SALE, !
>T THE (ÜBSCRIBIRS, No. 11, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Con/iJlifig of .
Baftas, of various qualities and prices, ,
Coflaes Punjum Cloths
Sanahs Guzzeydo. ,
Humhuras Charconna Dorea (
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls
Mamoodys Checks
Maharagonges Pat-na Hkfs.
Ginghams Mulmul do. {
Ouzzenas Bandannoes
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcoes Choppa Romals 1
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romils Persians of various col.
Meek Pulicats
»oo tons SUGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willings is? Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to sale at that
commodious store the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-ftreeti.
Alfo —A few Bales of Madrafs Hkfs. of ele
gant patterns and bell colotJrs.
February 8. \ 4tf
Ross fcf Sim son, /
HAVE IOtC SALE,
22 bales superior Madrafs blue Cloths
Carolina Indigo, firfl quality
A few bales Baftas, Coffaes, and a quantity of
Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica andl rum
Bengal J ,
april 10 §
LANDING, jj
From oii board the Ship Sally, from
Calcutta,
AND FO* SALE BY THE SUBSCRIBER, A
1600 bags prime Sugar,
800 do. Ginger
30 bales low priced piece Goods.
John Miller, Jun.
snarch 3 . S
A Watch Found. _ „
A WATCH was found lafl autumn, and has
fine: bten left with Rev. Mr Ennis, of St.
Mary's ; the owner, on application to him, and
paying the expence of repairing and advertifiag
the fame, may receive it again.
may I. * eo 3'_
~ Valuable Property for Sale.
FOR SALS,
THAT well known Estate, called SHREWS
BURY FARM, fornn-rly the ref.dencc of 0
General John Cadwalader, situate on SalTafras Ri- f
ver, in Kent ceunty, Maryland—containing a- t
bout 1900 acres of prime LAND, upwards of 500
of which are in woods. The Buildings are all ex
cellent, and consist of a handsome Dwelling House, r
two large Barns with Cow houses, Stables for fifty r
fcorfes, a spacious treading floor under cover, a f
granary, two Overseer's houses, two ran- t
ges of two story buildings for Negroes (one of c
them new and of brick), Corn houses, a Smoak
house , &c. &c.—The whole Estate being nearly
surrounded by water, it requires but little fencing,
and has a good Shad and Herring fifheiy. It is
conveniently situated for both the Philadelphia and ■
Baltimore markets, with two landings on a navi
gable river but a Ihort fail from Baltimore. There
is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
thepiemifes; also, a variety of excellent fruits of .
different kinds. The foil i» mostly a rich loom.—
The whole will be fold together, or divided into
fmailer farms (for which the buildings are conven
iently situated) as may suit the pnrchafer. The ,
Stock on said Farm, confiding of Horses, Cattle,
Sheep, &c. will also bedifpofedof.—-For further
particulars apply to Georoe Hastings, on the
premises, or to the fubfcribeT, in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jun.
February >4- »aw6w_
Cedar Posts, Rails and Shingles
FOX SALS.
THEY will be delivered to any place in Mary
land, Pennsylvania, New-Jersey, or New
" York, where boats drawing fir feet water can go
lrom this place: It will often suit the feller to
receive in return corn, provisions, wet or dry
goods. Letters direited to the fubferiber at this
place, and put into any pod office in the United
States, will be regularly received and carefully at
tended to. Those who wilh to contrail in Phila
delphia, will please to app'.y to Gideon Hill
Wells, No. 13J, Market-street. The fuhferiber
is desirous of contrafling with foms responsible
person in Philadelphia, to receive and dispose of for
him, on commiEon, a quantity of two feet Shin
gles, for home use, and of two feet and eighteen
inches, for exportation.
William Hill Weill,
Dagfborovgh, state of Delaware.
sprit 1%.
Grass Lots to let.
THREE contiguous Lots of Ground, contain
ing fomethingmore than an acre, Gtu»ted in
Carpenter flrect, between Third and Fourth <lr<ct,
Soutbwark ; to rent separately or together, for
the year or longer. They are in good order and
generally produced hay for fifteen years pad.—
Upon one lot in a frame dwelling house, a garden,
well of water, and hay stables. For further in
formation, enquire at No. 11, North Third ftrect.
April »J. eodlW
Notice —Agreeably to charter,
Is hereby given to the members of " the cor
poration for the relief of poor qnd diftrefied
prelbyterian minillers and the poor and diflrefled
widows and children of prelbyterian minillers,"
that a meeting of said corporation is to be hold
en, on the 16th day of May next, at 4 o'clock
P.M. in the second prefbrteriaß church in the
city of Philadelphia, for the dispatch of all such
bufinsl's as may then be brought before the
board. ASHBEL GREEN,
Secretary cfthc Corporation.
April 7. tawti6m
treasury department,
MARCH i, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
N pursuance of the A<2 of C.ngrefs p»ffed o. the sixth dayol:Jnly on. c th ou^ndfcve« ihun re
ni.e;y (even, e-ti.led " An A<» laying dut.es on Stamped Vellum, «wl P»P«' d
A a pa-led on the fifteenth day of December, one thousand seven hundred and nwe r fevM, _
'< An A a to poflpone for a limited time the commencement of the dune, by the
tied " An AJt l»yin< Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Psper , that from aud
firft day of July enf.mj, the feveralStamped Duties hereafter euu«erated, will be lev.ad and collec
ted throughout the United Statts.
For every (kin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or ftieet or piece of Paper, upon which frail be
vrittcn or printed any or either of the inilrument. er writingslollowing—to wit: | m
\ny Certificate of Naturalization, - - , - ; , 5
fc.ny Licence to pra£tice,or Certificate of the adm.fiion,enrolment or regiltry ot
any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Proflor, in aHy Court of the
United State*, - • " " " . , _ 10
Provided, thrt a Certificate in any one of the Courts of the United
for one of the said Office!, frail so far is relates to the payment ot the
duty aferefaid, be a fufficient admiflion in all the Courts of the United
States, for each and every of the said offices.
Vny Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United Mates
(except for lands granted for military services) - * 4
Vny exemplification or certified copy of any fuck grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military services) - *
\.ny Charter-Party, Bottomry, or Refpondentia Bond, - - I
Vny Receipt or discharge for or on accountof anyLegacyleftby any Will or o
ther testamentary instrument, or for any frare or part of a perior.nl eilate di
vided by force of any statute of diftr(tuti»ns, other than to the w 'f e < Cnil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceased, the amount whereot frail be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and frail not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, • - - * " ,
Yhen the amount thereof frail exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
frail not exceed five hundred dollars, - - - S°
Vnd for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional sum of I
Iny Policy of Insurance or inilrument in nature thereof, on anyfoip, veflel or
goods insured from one diflriifl to another in the United States, . 25
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which
Insurance is made frail not exceed five hundred dollars, - l 5
When the sum insured frail exceed five hundred dollars, I
Lay Exemplification, of whit nature forver, that frail pass the fealof any
Court, other than such as it may b* the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furnilh for the use of the United States or some flate, - jo
Lny Bon J, bill single or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promifpry
note or other note, other than any recognisance, bill, bond, or otlter obiiga- ,
tion or contra#, made to or with the United States or any state, or for their
use refptflively, - - - - -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, * 10
If aboveione hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, 25
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollar?, 50
Aud it above one thousand dollars, * - - •- V 75
Provided, that if any bonds or notes frail be payable at or within uxty days,
such bonds or nc*cs frill be fnbje<st to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforefaid—viz. • -
If above twenty dollars afid not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 4
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dolUi s, 10
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, ao
If above one thousand dollars, - - n c
my Notes iffiied bv the banks now eftablifred, or that may hereafter be ellab
lifred within the' United 'States, other than the not*s of such of the fa.d Banks
as frail agree to an annual composition, of one per centum an the anneal di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders relpe&ively, according to
the following scale. - . A
On all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, " * ,
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollari, 50
On all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, • " • " 1
On all notes abovi fiye hundred dollars, - - »
ny Protest or other Notarial aft, - - • t *5
ny Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid pennon, or to obtain or fell war
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
performed in the late war, - - * "
ny Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for lefsthan
five hundred dollars, - - -
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, a
For more than two thoufind dollars, - » I
ny note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported, _
If from one diflri& to another diftrift of the United States, not bsing in the
fame State, - - • 10
If from the United States to any foreign port or place, - - 1J
ny Invtfttory -Catjlagpir of •> 'ty furninire, made in*any
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels arm-smew Ttft- -
rent or uxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) 50
.ny Certificate of a Share in any Insurance Company, of a frare in the Bank ot
the United States, or of any State or other Bank, ' -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars, - - " *5
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
The duties aforelaid will becollcfted and received by the Supervisors, Infpeftors aud other Officers
f Infpeflion in the several Diftrifts, Surveys and Divisions of tjie United States, and by such other
erfonsas frail from t* time be specially appointed and employed by the Svpervifors of Diftricfts for
lat purpose.
» 111*
The Supervifars of the hveral Diftritfts will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and as soon as
jay be praAicable, mark Or stamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of VelPum, Parch
icnt or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of the said duties ; Or
atnped vellum, parchment and paper may at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
ained at the rates prescribed by law, by application to any Supervilor, Infpcftior, Officer of Infpe&ion,
,r other Dcrfcn appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Superviforsof Dittricls.
GIVE N under my Haud, at Philadelphia
the day and year abovementionpd.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. _ Secretary of the Treasury.
James Humphreys,
BEING encouraged by a number of gentlemen <
in the mercantile line, to undertake the pub
lishing of a Price Current in this city, and they
having engaged to give him every affiftanee in their
power to render it accurate and ufeful,
proposes to print bt subscription, I
The Philadelphia Price Current,
And Market Day Advertiser.
To be publilhed every Wednesday and Saturday j
morning, on the following conditions.
It willbe printed on four pages quarto. It will
contain the Prices Current (wholelale) at Phila
delphia, with the duties on each article—The Pri
ces Current at Boiton, New-York, Charleston, *
and other parts of the United States, with the Pri- 1
ces Current at Londan, the Weft Indies and else- 1
where as often as thsy can be had accurate and to
be relied on. The rat»s of infnranee—the price
of slocks—course of exchange, Sec. &c. ' Likewise '
a regular account of entries, inward and outward
—with such marine and other intelligence as shall
be thought ufeful and important—and the remain
der of the paper will be appropriated to advertise
ments.
The price to fubfcri6ers within the city and li
berties, to whom it will be delivered at their hou
ses, willbe Four Dollars per annum—Two dollars
at the expiration of a month from its publication,
and the remainder at the end of the year. Sub
scribers at a greater diflancewill have it sent them
agreeable to their directions—to pay two dollars at
the time of fubfetibing, and the remainder at the
tnd of the year.
The publication shall commence as soon as a fuf
ficient number have fubferibed to pay the expence
of conducing it.
£jf It is from the advica and to gratify the wish
ef a number of mercantile gentlemen that the
printer proposes publiflring this Price Cnrrent in a
quarto size in preference to any other. And it is
propofsd to embrace the Prices Current with such
other matter as maybe most material tofend abroad
in the firft two pages—appropriating the other tw»
to fueh matters as r»ay be mare immediately do
mestic, and to adveitifements.
Subscription? are received by said Humphries, at
his Printing Office, No. 74, North Third-street,
I and Mr. Z. Poulfon, jun. at his office inChcfnut
ftrcet, and at the Philadelphia library.
Philadelphia, April 14. ftf
For Sale, '
A CONVENIENT well built second hand Light
Waggon, hung on Jacks with glaff.s and
1 blind? in the doors, with or without harness.
, F.nquire of Peter Umerickhoufe, Arch, below
Sixth street, or the fubferiber in Germantown.
CASPAR W. HAINES.
April % *2aw3w
Fresh Teas.
yuft Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And por Sale, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Comptiag House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,
and Br
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchoag,Hyfon, Young
Hyson, Hyion Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
Also,
China Ware, assarted; black and coloured Lute
strings and Sattim, Nankeens, Cassia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
whale-bone flicks.
Tbey have also Fit Sale,
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Hanikerchiafs,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes,
march 8. §
Now Opening,
At W illiamM'Laws Saddle Manufa&ory,
No. 72, Qhefnut Street,
A general aflortment of Horseman's
Pistols, direS from the Manufailurers in London.
ALSO ON HAND, ,
Saddles, Bi idles, Holsters, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartou.h Boxes, Va
lices, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
April 9 dtf
City Commissioner's Office,
January nth, T798.
FOR THE INFORMATION OF THE CITIZENS.
THE following arrangement is made by the
said commissioners, for cleansing the
streets, See.
Diftrifl No. 1. —from the north fide of Vine
street, to the south Cde of. Mulberry street; to
be under the fuperioterdance of Nicholas Hicks.
1 From the south fide of Mulbrry street, to
the south fidt of CViefnut ftrreet, to be under the
fuperintendance of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut street to
the north fide of Spruce street, to be under tht
fuperintendance of Joleph Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of Spruce street, to the
south fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu
perintendance of Hugh Roberts.
When pumps ate out of order south 0:
High-ftrcet, please apply to Thomas Dixey, at th<
corner of South and Fifth-flfeets, ©r Godfrey Gcb
ler, in Fourth, near Chefnut-ftreet ; and north a
High street, to Dixey and Dchaven, in SafTafras
flr««t, between Sixth and Siventh ftrestJ.
treasury department,
March 30th. 1798. 1
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT by an ail of Congrcfs paflfdon the
19th day of March, .798, the following <
alterations and amendments have been made to (
the *a parted on the 6th day ot July 1797> «*" ,
titled "An a£ layir . dime, on stamped vel- ,
" lum, parchment ami paper. (
The stamp duties on debentures or eertifi- |
cates for the drawback of Customs or dune, on (
Imports are repealed.
Adifeount at the rate of seven and one half .
per Centum, will be allowed by the Supervisor. ,
or Infpeaor,s Tefpoflively, to any persons other
than Officers of the Revenue, who may pur- |
chafe it one time or, procure so be stamped, any
quantities of Vellum, Parchmept or Paper, upon
which the duties ftiall amount to Ten Dol
lars or upwards. 1
Stamped Paper, will be provided,.and fold at 1
the rates prescribed by law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for ftimped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional price will be demanded -
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each <kin df Parch
ment, or Two Hundred Cents for each (km of
Vellum of medium size, which may be furnifh
ed at the expense of the United States and pro
portionally for any lefier quantity-
Given under my handy at Philadelphia, tbe '
day andyeir abovementioned.
OLIVER WOLCOtT,
Secretary ofthe Treasury.
WANTED, \
APPROVED BIt.LS on Amftcrdam —for which
ca(h will be given at the rate of thirty seven cents
per guilder. Enquire of th» Calhier of the Bank
of the United States. § april 23.
LANDING,
Fr«m on board the Ihip Elizabeth, captain Paiilie,
from Batavia,
And FOR SALE by the Subscriber,
400,000 wt. Java COFFEE
300 canisters SUGAR, of a l'uperior quality
' s " 'i'J A^\SO,
A quantity of SAPAN WOOD
JOHN MILLER, jun.
April 17. $
Thomas & Joshua Fisher,
HAVt FOR. SAI.E,
At No. 5, Dock-ftreet,near the Drawbridge,
China ware nankeen dining setts, tea and coffee
caps and saucers
Nankeens, black fattins and taffities
Pangem cloths, choppah romalls, and bandannoes
China and Englifti umbrellas.
Together with a general ajfortment of European
Goods— among which are
Scots thread in boxes
6d. 8d iod. lid. and lod. nails
Shot—T.. Crowley steel, Spanilk brown and white
lead
Englilh scythes 42 to 50 inches
ALSO,
IH barrellsof kiln drye«l Indian corn meal.
A commodious StoreinDock-ftreet,
No. 7, to be let, three stories high, fuitablefor
any business.
4th mo. sth §tf
S ALT P El RE.
One hundred kegs of refined Salt Petre,
For Sale by the Subscribers.
'James C. & Samuel IV. Fijher,
No. i?. Arch Street
inarch Ji - 7 ~—\ 1 -- < .
Joseph Ricardo,
OF this City, Merchant, has afligned his pro
perty for the benefit of his Creditors, te James
C. Filher, Samuel W. Filhcr, and Thomas Wilson.
All persons who have demands are re
quested to furnilh their accounts without delay
arid those indebted to make immediate payment to
the Subscribers, a&ing Afiignees.
James C. & Samuel W. Fisher.
No. 13, Arch Street,
march 31 4tawtf
Canal Lottery—-No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, thetoth
in(t. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Sevan Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-street
Tickets inthje Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollars, where check books are kept lor register
ing and examining in these, the City of Wafliing
ton, No. Il.and Pattfrfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets maybe had in mod of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The business of a Broker, inbuyingand
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difconßting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, &e. &c. will be duly attended to,
by \ WM. BLACKBURN.
Noreml.Srn-. § .
1 JUST RECEIVED. ~
And for sale by W. Young, corner of Second
and Chefnut-ftreet, M. Carey 118 High-street
T. Dobfon, 41 South Sicend-ftreet and the
Boekfellers generally,
(Price 5-&ths of a tlollar.)
BEACON HILL,
A Local Poem, historic and deforiptive 1
By a Lady, of 80/lon.
AN AX YSIS OF BOOK I. -
Allusion to the surrounding Profpeit—lnvocation
to the River and sylvan Deities—to the Historic
Mufe—rFiflion discarded—Dedication to Wash
ington—The Aition opens at the Retreat of the
Columbians from Bunker's Hill—General Howe
—The Memory of his Brother—Death of War
ren—Perfenification of Fortune and Fame—
Walhington at Mount Vernon—called to the
chief Command—Formation of the Columbian
Camp at Cambridge—Natural, moral, or poli
tical History of the several States —Their com
manding Officers—Siege of Bolton—lts Suffer,
ings—Negotiation for the fafe Retreat of the
Britilh Army—'lts Departure—Appointment of
Congress—Declaration of Independence—Cha
racter of the Oalumbian Soldies—The Poet's
prophetic Apofctophe to the Progress of Free
dom througheut the World,
march 30. 5
To be Let,
(And polTeflion .given on the ift of May)
A genteel-three story bfick House,
aj fectlront, and 40 feet deep, with back buildings
and (tables, at present in the tenure of Major Jack
son. Enquire at 187 South Third ftrcet.
April %. $
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR SALE AT THIS OFFtCE,
(Price IS Cents)
Refle&ions on Monroo's View
or THE CONDUCT OF THE EXECVTIFZ,
As puhlifhed in the
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
Under the figuature o£
SCIPIO,
[■ In xubicl the Commercial Warfare of France is traced
to the French Fafiion in this Country, at its Source,
and til Mitipes of Opposition, life.
, v Majfachufetts Dijlrift.
By Order of the rfonorable John Lowell,
Esquire, Judge of the Diilrift Court for
the MafTaehufetti Diflrifl,
" "VfOTICE ii hereby given to all person*
IN concerned," That a Libel it filed in said
Court by Christian O. Grutzmacher, late Com
mander of the ship Corona, of and from Ham
burgh, and Henry Andrew Heias at agen:s for
the owners of said Ship, against sundry goods*
wares and merchandize, saved from said fliip.
Corona, wrecked oil Cape Cod within said Dif
trifl on the 16th March last—which goods,
wares and merchandize, were consigned to di
vers persons in Philadelphia, in the Diftrifl of
Pennfylyania, and elsewhere—and that said Li
bel is filed as aforefaid, for .the freight said to be
due te the Libellants on ftid goods, wares and
merchandize, and for ncctfiary expences paid
by them which have arisen upon the fame—
And that trial will be had upon the aforefaid
Libel at a DiftrieSt Court to be holden at the
Court-House in Befton, on Monday the eigh
teenth dayof Junenext, at n o'clock, A- M.
SAMUEL BRADFORD,
" Marjhal ofMajfacbufetti™
Dated at Bojlon, Jpril I
zW,i 7 yß. \ twtf -
" TO BE SOLD,
4°,959 acres of Land.
IN Greene County, Commonwealth of Pennsyl
vania, on the waters of Fifli and Wheeling
Creeks and Ten Mile Rnn.
These Lands are fertile and well limbered, and
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten years ago for
five shillings per arre ; patented early in 1787, ex
cept 3760 acres, which were patented in 1791;
part of them were surveyed in 178.1. The tra&
is between the Ohio and Monoogihela. very con
venient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of Wafliington, from 14 to 16 from the
village of Greenefburgh and Wheeling.
Oa payment of one lourth of thepurchafe mo
ney, a reasonable credit will be given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april #l. §
TO BE SOLD,
26,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of New York, betwten the northern
boundb of Pennsylvania and the Sufquehanna
now, or late in the townlhips ol Hamdcn and
Warren and county of Warren.
These Lands, i r om thi ir quality and situation,
are a very desirable obj;6t for any man who mean*
to invest his money te advantage.
On payment of one third of the purchase mo
l ney, a reasonable credit will he given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april 11. 5
Valuable Stands for Bufinels.
FOR SALE—by the
Two Lots of Ground,
Situate on the south fide of Chefnut-ftreet, be
tween Second and Third llreeta :—one containing
eighteen feet, and the other fevente n feet, more or
e ft, on the said ftfeet, and both extending, the
lfme breadth, one hundred and forty-eight, more
or less, to Carter's alley.
There are, on Chefnut-ftreet, two two-story
BRICK HOUSES
(Numbers 80 and 8i)
Which may readily be made into one ;• and, om
Carter's alley, there is a convenient, well built
htree-ftory
Brick House and Kitchen,
Almost new, which has two rooms on a floor
and a front of eighteen feet on said allay.
This property is clear of grou.-J-mit, «nd as
indisputable title will be »Wcn to the purchaser.
—f j „ _ > y g
Further particulars may he known cn appifca*
tion to
ZACHARIAH POULSON
No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet, or at the Library.
march 23. [ fefißw
For Sale,
A Farm and Count at Seat,
SITUATED on the weft fide of the Schuylkill op
posite to Norris-tOwn, seventeen miles from Phi
ladelphia—the farm contain* 19$ ac es of land, 50
of which are woodland, about 40 of meadow, and
the reft arable land. The house and garden which is
large and well p3led, stand in the most pleasant situ
ation, commanding a view of iho river, an island
which isoppofite. and the village of Norristown—
There i« a (had filhery belonging to the place.—En
quire 111 Philadelphia, No. 96, North Third Street,
or on the prenaifes.
April 16 iawtf
Bafeenridge —lor l'ale
IT consists of 9*o acres, almost all of which is
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenteof the late
fitirl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which are bounded on the
Eaftby the river Pafaiek.
There are on it a number of buildings, forming
afquare of nearly three acres—The dwelling house
is a very convenient one.andja fmallexpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard consists of J jo® fin's bearing er.graf
ed AppleTrees—"*[Kl tbtre is on ©tk«r pnrtsof fsM
trail near 300 other Apple Trees—as a!fo a great
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
best and moll delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
Forest Tret>s, that adJ to the beauty and eonveni
ence of theplace. Its situation is about 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : lot)®*
from Merris-Town, and It from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price k five pound pr. acre
in cash, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Ch«fnut treet-
February a. eodtf
Saliflaury Estate.
THE Subscriber, propoGng to contra® Jiii busi
ness, ofFers this Estate for falc, on moderate
terms. On it are one/Blast and three Air Furuaces»
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of flones ; also a good Forge, all
in perleft repair,as are all the Water Works fonneft
ed with these various brabches. The Air Furnacea
were lately built for the purpose of calling Cannon
for this State.—There are aKor two thousand acre*
of Land, one half of which isuudcr wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Failure. The Cannon lately manufactured there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which >.
luperior to anv in this country, and probably, etpul
to any in the world i for not one of Ssty-n.ne guns
lately made, although lome of the i 4 were bored
into 31 pounders hare failed onprov,ng Thefo.*
ation is very eligible, particularly for th.s b»och *
manufacture, and a place .I a.m. lying in the state
of Conncfticut, and only 30 miles from several land •
ines on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water issuing
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of ottier
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can •" "commut
ed with all the flock, and utensils, and have possession
on or before the firft of Junenext, and
may be made in the roeaowme for going into B alt im
mediately thereafter, for every pait will be deliver
ir. good order, with forae coal, Ore, Sec. 4c.
•terms, apply to Mr. ]ofeph Anthony,
phia; David Brooks, Esq. one of the Reprefentmves
in Congrcfs for this State ; Mr, D.vM Wsterman, on
1 the pre miles, or to the proprietor in N
H < WILLIAM NEILiON
' Dee.