ef m MllltCtJ tUtOO, and PbMadelpbia Daily Advertiser.
NUMBIK J 693.J
St. Croix Sugars.
s6 heglhMds best ST. CKOIX SUGAR,
sale b*
JOHN NIXON V Co.
Feb.». fm&wtf
FOR SALE,
BY thi gußiCßißtße, No. »i, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
of
B*ftas, of various qualities and prices,
Coflaet Punjura Cloths
Sanahi Guziey do.
Humhum< Charconna Dorca
Blue Clith Tanjibi
Chintz and Cilicoe* MulmuU
Checks
Mahawgonget Patna Hkfs.
Ginghams Mulmtl do.
Ouzzenas Bandannoet
Ourrabt Siflerfoy
PiniafcoCT Choppa Homals
Salpatchyi Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Perfiini of various col.
Mack Pulicatt
too tons SUGAR
9®, 000 lb. rEPPEtt.
Willings Iff Francis,
The Piece Goods
Of ihe Gangt't are naw open t« sale at that
commodioHn store the nnrth weft corner of
Market and Fourth-streets.
Also—A few Bales of Madrafs Hkfs. ef ele
gant patten s and bed colours.
February 8. ritf
Nicklin y Griffth,
At their Store on "Vy«lnut Str<tt Wharf—
HAT* FOR SALE,
58 hhds. of Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wine in pipes asd hhds.
Teneriffe do. in pipes
OM Port do. in hhds.
Imperial Tea in quarters and eighths as ehefts
Sail Canvass, No. 1, to 8
Dimities, Ginghams, and Muflinets, in packa
ges suitable far tiie Weft-India market
Kails allorted
J3lack quart bottles
ware in hhds. and crates
Yellow ochre dry in tafts ;
And at New-York, on board the
Slip Diana, from Liverpool, expe£)cd round
at soon as the navigation is open,
Fine Liverpool £alt
Coals
Spanish Brown "j
Venetian Red
Purple Brown [ PAINT «
Patent Whit. f FAINTS
White Lead
Red Lead J
Colcothar vitriol
160 bundles Sheathing paper
Seaming Twine
For Sale or Chatter.
ALSO,
firm of Philip Nicklin & Co.
is now changed to
NICKLIN eS" GRIFFITH.
January 1. endtf
A Rqman Catholic Clergyman,
Who has been 1 cnnliderable time an the
million in the country parts of the ftateof Penn
lylvania, gives this notiee to any extcnSve pro
prietor oflsnd within the said state, and border
ing on either the Potomark, Sufqnehanna, or
Janiat* rivers ; that he is enabled to make a fat
tlement with from fifty to one hundred and fif
tv families, if due encouragement be offered
Por ta-ther it)formation, apply to the Rev. Leo
nard Neale, Wiliiog's Alley.
Feb. 8. *.;t
' /N THE PRESS,
AND' SP6SBILY WILL BE PUBLISHED,
( Prim t S Cent/J
Reflections on Monroe's View
or run ooNDucT or rat sxncvrire,
As publilhed in th<
GAZETTE of the UNITED STAtBS,
Under the &guatir« of
SCIPIO,
In which the commercial warfare of France is
traced to the French faflion in this country
as its fonrce, and the motives of the opposition
te the measures of the United States are exposed.
Feb. 8.
The holders of Certificates, ac
ceptances, endorfcmcnts and other engagements of
Edward Fox, far account of Jaaies Greenlcaf, are
hereby notified, that Wcdaefday, the 14th Febru
ary cext, is the last day, or which they ean admit
fnbfcriptione to the fund aflignrj for the payment
of said engagements; and that thofc holders, who
do no»on «r before that day make their fubferip
ti'su, will be excluded from the benefit thereof.
Htnry Pratt,
T. ft. Francis,
y»hn Miller, jun.
John jljbley,
Jaect Baler.
Janaary 17- §
Boston Glass Manufa&ory.
J
■ •>
THE eitizens of the United States are hereby
informed, that the msnufadtare of Window
■Glass is now cotrmeneed at the Glass Honfe ia
-Boltoo.
It ie needlcfs to fay any thing of the excellent
qaality of the JJod .11 Glass, as ic is so well known
throughout the United States ta he in every rcf
peA greatly superior to any ever imported from
Europe.
It will be cut to any fixe commonly used ; and
may be couftantly had by applying to Ciarft, p.
Kufftr, at theGlafi Hoafe.
Orders from the dillant States to he addressed to
Mr- S*mucl Core, Court-draft, Ballon.
fpf Two or three ifaod Olafs makers ate want
ad at the above works; fueh as can prodace re
eaaimcndatiaai for good behavior, may be fnre of
•aaploy, by application to Mr. Gnrj, L. Limit, at
the works. Men without families * ill be pre
ferrad. Howrver unacqaeiated with the nsetbad
ef making Crown Window G1 •(*, they will meet
* ith the fame encoarage*i:nt.
itoCan, January 16 t»w!w,
PHILADELPHIA: IVTONDAY EVENING, FEBRUART 12, 1798.
JUST RECEIVED,
AND FOR CALK, AT
W. Young's Book-store,
Corner of Chcfnat and Second ftroets,
( Price 5 O Cents)
Causes qui fe font oppofees aux
Progres du commerce, entre LA FKANCE et let
EIATS-UNIS de L'AMERIQUE.
Avee les Moyeon de l'aecelerer ;
Et la comparaifon de la Dctte Nationalc
dc I'Angleterre, dc la France, and des
ETATS-UNIS.
In fix Lettrcs, addreflces a Moufieurlc Mar
quis ds la Faystti. Traduit fur le Ma
nufcrit Anglais du Colonel SWAN, ancien
Mcmbre de la dela Rlpublique
du MaffachulTet.
La Coramorcc (ft U portion la plus importante des
(RichefTci Natioaales.
———LcTridentde Neptune,oftle fceptredu Monde.
Lmuti.
Or causes that have been opposed ta the
VROGHECS of < OMMERCK Kotw.cn
FMAt/Cl tni Uu UNITED STATES of AMERICA.
With the meaas of accelerating it;
And a. comparison of the National Debts
of Kngland, Franct, and America\
In Six letters, directed to the Marquis
DS LA FaveTT*.
Tranflsted (into Fr<nch from the original Bug
lift Manafcrr-t of Col. Swan, formerly a Mem
ber «f the Legifliture of Vlaffichufetts.
Commerce ia the mail important portion of the
Wealth of Nations.
the world. Lbmis&s.
AT a juncture when the question of
a Commercial Treaty witb France may soon
bcconut an objeil of discussion, a work of this kind
becomes extrea>cly ufefuf to those eitizvas of the
United States, who may be defii on» to enable thean
felves to view this fubjcA, under its various af
peAs ; and they will hare the fatisf&<sUon to be
furnifhed with the neceflary data, tq jadge of the
ufcfalncftof this tranfa&ion.
1 his work is principally diftiaguifhed by the
richnt/R of the observations, the pcrfpieuity of the
i»cas, and the modesty of the theory which it
contains. 4 t Pars, a man of wit observed, that
this work was like a rich farmer's barn, heaped up
to the rery roof with ufcrul produce. It is addrcf •
fed to the unfortunate La Fayette, fn letters,
which fugitive fo "in, the aathor who could only
devote a few wcrks to this occupation, was obliged
to adopt. Although circumftanc-ss arc in many
refpe&s different at the present day, from what
tiiey were in the year 1790, when these letters
were written, yet it may be jaftly said, that so ma
ny absolute and permanent data still remain, that
the judicious reader will not appreciate the work
lesson that account ; on the contrary, as many of
the alterations, which have been made, are the re
sult of the author's remarks, it wiH ferva to «on
vmce him that in all tranfa&iotis, between free
nations, every thing maybe expe&edfrom the ef
: forts of truth and just ice.
LETTER I.
General ?iew of the obftaeles,'created in France,
to pievent the cxtenfion ®t commerce, with the
United States—Observations made in a tour, taken
for that express purpose, uponfosne French manu
factures (* precious fragment this). Examination
and refutation of the prejudices existing in France,
3gainft the quality of certain produ&ions of the
United States, aad again ft the advantages of their
importation- Denaomiration of the bad policy of
laying duties ©a their importation, principally on
provifiens in general, and on fait provisions, and
fifli in pa ticnlar—Confideratioas on the regulations
of the Freneh cat^om-houfes.
LETTER, 11.
1 Obflacks to the extension of trade with France,
proceeding from arcumftances and individuals in
the United States—Proofs tha these ohftacles are
only temporary and will be removed (they have
be n removed) by time and the wifdontof govern
ment—History of the influence of the American
paper money—lmportant [rinciples and abftraA
confideratiens on money and circulation—Causes
of the (1 agnation of American trade, after the
peace—Critical examination of French 4 ,00d5, im
ported into America, and extraordinary condaA
of the French merchants—EffeAs of good com
mercial laws; and patriotic wifhesbn this CubjeA—
Observations on money, weights and m^afurcs.
LETTER 111.
•Kffiy in the form fa tableau, to appraise the im
pouations into the United States from France and Eng
land un ted. The author examines at *.ach article,
whether it can be better iuuiilhed frwm France or
England—lt is principally on this fubjeft (which
would have aitonilhcd a me»e thcoriil) that the author
appears to evince great commercial experience. These
kind of tableaux, uuluckily as difiicult to obtain as
they are much to be defiled, are the only sure guides
the ttatefman can take tor th" policy of treaties, de
prived of which he is continually deceiving or decei
ved. We cannot too much admire the apparent ex
a&nefa of colonel Swan's calculations ; aad although
the propheAes of Lord Sheffield have already been
contradi&ed by experience, and by feverai able pens,
yet it is curious lo lee the author of the prcient work,
clifpute with him the only graucd on which he has
not been hithcito attacked, by proving that Fiance,
under the required condition, will We better able
than Great Britain to supply us with feverai articles,
which the Englilh author allots cxciufively and forev
er to the latter; the author's paUiatrty ej/efl on (if he
has any) does not appear to have at any nme created
a fartiality ofjudgment. '1 he result of this calculation
is that in 17¥9, that is to fay, at a period when arts
and manufactures did not present ia France the vast
means and probability of extension which they now
poilcfs. that even it> 1789, it wss that
France would not only have the means to supply one
half of any given Quantity of the produAions 6f France
, and tngland united, but alio to enter iflto competition
with Gieat Britain for the remainder, ia proportion
to the wildoin of her government, and the lndaliry
•f her inhabitant*.
LETTER IV.
Calculatiou of the exportation of the United States,
aad particular examinaiion of their faiiablenefs to
France; this is one reason why, notwithstanding the
excellent work of Mr. Tench Coxe, Mr. Swan's ta-
Utau is by no means fupeittuous . the principle of the
advantages which would result to Franoe from the
importation cf provifians and raw materials, is every
where applied ; and it is upon this argument, that
the author eftablilhes his demands to the French go
vernment, for the limited admiAon of the produc
tions of his country into France.
LETTER Y.
Tableau, of the debt of the United States at th«
time—Opinions of the author on the finances, on ihe
efTeAs of national debt, n« circulation, Ac. as more
amply detailed in his National Arithmetic priced at
Bolton in the year 1786 ; the whole calculated to
ttrcngthen in France, ihe pubic and private credit
of tbe United States—the happy condition of Ameri
ca, and the mifenes arifiag from the public debt in
Europe, are contratied in the ablest manner, and un
der the most linking lelatiant, by very cu ious eal
ealationr—Obfervations on the wtfdom and economy
which prchde over the public exper.fes in Maflachu
fetts. In this place the patriotism of the auihnr ap
pmrs, with all the elevation wh.eb a just national
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Cbefnut Street. >
pride inlpires., TheaiKicM fe' vei Europe,
faV» he, will Isarn from us the art of econ»mv in
recoinpeudng ihe feivices which the country receives:
AmongH mjt will bifit*, thai min art thekn Jtr pirn a t
and places for men. Thu kuer co»clud> s with a
genera) view of the public property, ed in the
bands «f the gover««n»ent of the United Sii'^s.
LETTER VI
General CKaminarifbti of the defe£l» of the commer
cial policy of Fiance with refpert «o the Va\ted States;
nuny of thele obfervattons have produced the effects
for which the^'.were ihtended, others flil] remain,
pointing out the reforms Vo be made in fiature, as a
good chart marks the AioaL and tocks. The author
concludes his woik, by his on bit
country, and the great mm who have tendered it il.
luftitous; and we take a pita fur e in what he
(ays of the present chief of oor government. To
piaife a man when he a 4i«'ti;;gtiifced em
ployment, is comraoa, and may be uken fur flattery ;
but whilst he is in private life, it is the hom&ge of
fjneerity.
Note, page 316 of the work,
* Les habitans des tiats-unii, fuivant dans leur
choix le bien public, «Sc excites par un ptiweipi de
rccontioiffaiice, choilirent M. Jolao Adams pour vice
prefidcut du nouveau congres. Sei efforts, pour pre
server le peuple des intrigues formces par le gouv
frnement Anglais contic fa liberte,'ie rcnducat tres
fufpeil a ccux qui ctoieut en pouvoir. Le people,
coavaiiicu de son merite, le choifu pour un de fes
reprefentans dans le premier congres. De cs noubr»
etoit audi M Samuel Adams, patriote auflTt intrepide,
qu'infa'.ig-ble. La revoltitioM Americaiae doit beau
coup a la perfcvcrancc do fes travaux, $t aiestalen&
diflaiges. Cf.ux que M. John Adams a develop pes
dans le traite de paix, qui i'eft fait a Paris en 1783,
ont prouve qu'il ctoit nuniftre aufli habile que grand
politique. Lt cans son ouvrage fur la defcaie de is
ccnftitotion Americainc, il a montae toutes les can
noifif,:nces qui ferment les vrais jurifconluhcs les
hommcsde hi; connoiffanccS necedaires, poui rem
plir honorablcmcnt les fonitions de prefidcnt du fenat
des£ats-uiiis.
House and Loti, in BerJentozan.
TO BX SOLD, a handsome two story Hou r e,
with the Lot on which it isereiStd, situat
ed about the middle of the beautiful aad healthy
Village of Bordentau'n. The house i« f»rty
two ftet in front, and in neat ordtr. The lot
contains »ne acre, and is one hundred feet on
the main street, and extends with the fame
breadth to back rtreet. Alio, a large Lot, con
taining nearly four acres, fepirated from the
former by back street. One third only of the
purchase money will be required upon execut
ing a deed, and f«V the remainder, such credit
will be givefc as (he purchaser may chufe.. This
property will be fold free of all incumbrances,
and an indisputable title given.
For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnes, rcfiding in Bordentown, near
the premifea, who will (hew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, No. 144, Market-street.
DfrrmVier a.
Princeton—JS'ew-JerJey.
To be Sold,
THAT neat and convenient House in which
the late Mrs Ann Witherfpoon, now Mrs.
Ann Walker lived ; together with all the ap
purtenances. The house is two ftorics high,
of frame work and painted. There are four
raoms and an.entry on the lower flam - , and five
roams on the second floor. The cellars are
dry, and the garret specious—The back yard
is paved with stones. In it are a well of excel
lent water, an oven, a smoke house, and house
for ashes—and behind it a carriage house, hay
loft, graaery, and convenient (tables, with four
flails for horses, and four for neat cattle. The
lot is 6« feet wide upon the street, and 254 feet
deep, somewhat more tkan half of which is
made into a kitchen garden of an excellent foil.
For terms, which u ill be made very reaton
able, apply t« the reverend
Samuel S. Smith.
January 19.
City CommilHoner's Office,
January \Ub t J798.
FOR THB INFORMATION cF THk CITIZENS.
HPHE following arrangement is made by the
JL said cammiffioners, for cleansing the
ftretts,
Diftriil No. 1. —From the north fide of Vine
flreet, to the fouth'fidi; ef Mulbeih-y street; to
he under the fuperintsndance of Nicholas Hit ka.
1 From the south fide of Mulbrry street, to
the south fide of Cfcefnut ftrreet, to be under the
fuperintendance of William Moulder.
j. From the south fide ef Chtfiiut street to
thenorih fide «f Spruce street, to be under the
fuperintendaace of Jeleph Claypoole.
4. From the noith fide of Spruce street, to the
south fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu
pointendance of Hugh Roberts. mwfim
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
Hcufe square This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half oh Fifth street ; there are at
present two small two story briek houl'es, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
■Alfi., for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient ftnres, wharf, &c. I'liuite on
Water street, between Mulberry an l Saflafrat
Streets, containing in front on Water flreet fif
ty-four feet, and containing that broadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
have the convenience of a public alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and aiea very defirablefit
uation sot a a merchant, Sour facfior, or other*
who may'have occasion for storage of goods.
This property will be fold on very reason able
terms for ralh. Far fnrtber information apply
to the printer.
_ July 31. j m&wtf
To Cabinet Makers, Joineft, &c.
Cavanagh & Heam,
Pine street, neir the New-Market,
RETURN thanks to their friends and the
public, for their liberal encsnragement,
and hope, by their unremitiag attention, to
merit a continuance of their favorj.. The part
nerftiip between tbcm and Joseph B/Barry, ha*
been diftblved by mutual consent. Cavar.agh 1
and Hearn have just deceived a quantity of St. 1
Domingo and Honduras Mahogony, which they
intend to-fell ourery reafanablc terms forcalb.
Ofders from the country most punctually exe
cuted. Vincert of all kinds cut a* usual.
Jan. 15. iaw4w
Hyion and Young Hyson Tea.
A few cheits ot excellent quality, for sale, cor. 1
Bit of Second and Pice ftracts. Dsc li—;ol£
Bank of Pennsylvania.
, AT a meeting of the Stockholder*, held at the
a Bank on Friday, the id February, 1798, purfu
c ant to public norice-
On morion, Refolyed, That, this meeting he
injirapreffed with a due sense of the extraordina
- fy *rvices and attention of Samuel M. Fox, Ffq.
; Prefidcnt of this Bank, in the execution of the du
* ties of his ©flQce ; which have been much incrcaf
» ed by the peculiar fituatjo.n of the inflitution, at
1 the period ot his appointment; aud ty the d:®--
r culties occasioned in confluence of the recent ca
* lamity in this city ; —a cotn*Mttee of thr«e geatle
't men be appointed to prepare a piece of Plate* of a
j value n<>t exceeding (We hundred dollara, vrithfuit
ablc emblems and deyices, to be presented to Mr.
. Fox, in the nam« of the Stockholders, as an evi
f dencc of the high feulc thty entertain of his late
official fcrvices.
William T.Smith, Peter WikofF, and Charles
Biddlc, Efqrs, were appointed a committee for the ;
above purpose.
Oidered, that the preceding resolution be pub- j
lifted. . |
E*fra& from the minutes.
WILLIAM T. SMITH,
Chairman,
Atitjl JonN SITOKSATES, Secretary.
Frejh Fruit.
To-morrow morning will be landed, at
Mtrris't Wharf, just above the Draw
bridge, the cargo of the fchooaer Fr«le
rickfburg Packet, Captaiu Pearce from
Malaga, vi(.
Bloom Raifias in kjjgs
Do. Do. in boffljf
Mufcatcl do. in do.
Figs in kegs
Almond kernels in cases and 1*0346
Soft Ihell'd almonds Ui faeks
Prunes iu boxes
Grapes in jars
Anchovies in Legs, &c.
The whole of the articles Slipped as of the £rft
qualities.
For Sale by
Ptter Kubn.
February 5
Frefli Fruits and Wine.
Edward Dunant,
No. 149, Snuth Front-Areet, ,
Has remaining ot the cargo pr Johanna, from
Malaga—
-99 kegs Raisins
;:j iz. 1 <">•
105 ditto Mufeatel do.
15 kegs Figs
io qr casks fine old Colemenar Wine
A few pipesand hogfhoads of Celalonia Wine,
and Malaga and Mountain Wise in hhds and
quarter calks.
He has also for Sale—
A few packaget of Madiafs and Calcutta
good», viz.
T«kery—-Humhtimt. ...
Barhar Handkerchief*
Bla«k and coloured Tafßties and Perfiana
Bandannoes—Choppa Romalls—i'ullicot likf.
Patna Cliintz
Likewise a few boxes »f Spermiuili Candles,
and bags of Black Pepper.
Ftb. t. jt
For e.
THE Subscriber offersfor sale the property now
occupied by hicn in the town of W<s&-Cbe£qr
and county of Cheftcr. It confirt,sof a well fiuiihed
two story ftoce hoqfe, 43 feet front, by aboat 40
deep, "four rooms Qn a floor, with cieled garrets,
aad a cellar andcrthe win.ls—A very good (looe
Stable and Coach hcuic—And a lot of Ground, <
tkree pcrehes wide, by twenty perches depth.
The house Hands on the Main ilreet; its Situation
is high and very handsome; the lot extends to a
hack ftree>, on which the ftnble and coach house
Hand. The lot is in a high state of cultivdtiorj,
and there is in the yard a pump of excellent water,
which has, at no time, been known t*/ail.
The situation of the town is high, and remark
ably healthy—the country 1 round it, fertile and
beautiful.
The terms of payment will made to fnit the
pmrchafer. Tkiy, and the price, will be fettled, 1
upr.n application to Mr. Jonathan Sm tu, at na. j
149, South Third-street, Philadelphia, or to
ROBERT FRAZER.
February 5. mwftf
The cargo of the Weft-Indian from
Jamaica,landing atSouth Street wharf,
136 hhds and 300 barrels choice Cwflce
98 Hhas of prime Sugar
29 Hhds. of Rum.
far sale By
Peter Blight.
WHO ALSO OFFIKS rC a SALI,
500,000 Lbs of Java Coffee
800 Bags do. Sugar
t Cloves and mace in boxes
A Quantity of Hifpaniola Cocoa
Kea P*rtWinein pipes and hagfheads
Madeira do. in pipes
February 6 daweotm
_ •
Prison Manufactory.
FOR SALE, J
At the Prifsn of the City rj|d County of Philadel. t
phia,
Cut Nails of all fiaes, from to aody
Flooring Brads, Springs, .fiddle and card Ta?ks
Oakum aaid chipped Logwood
Shoemakers and Sadlors Thread
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier*® tables, ,
[ tomb and heaaitones, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms, ilubs, iacia, window heaiU, tills, c .
All which may he had ou reasonable terms,
Shoes made and Weaving done at (aid Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders from a didancs, dire&ed to Daniel Tho
mas, agent for the pailt n, will be attended to.
DccemWr 16 mth6m
A Nurse's place wanted. 1
A WOM •» N jtiA arrived (fom Knglend, wants a
place as a Nurfeor attendant <ro the lick, either on a
Gentleman or Lady.—For further information apply
at No. 10, South Fourth ftreer, nesr Marke street. +
Feb. 5.
Fsr Sale, {
The time of a youug Mulatto Girl, about
twelve years old, has vbout eleven years to fcrve.
She is very capable ot* taking care of a child,
and understands house work, Enquire at No. »
97, North sth flrcct.
Jan. *a. %od»vr S
Canal Office,
February 7, 1797.
c A N adjourned meeting of the Stockholders of
the Delaware and Schuylkill Cunal Naviga
tion, will be held, at the Company's office, 01a
' Friday next, at 7 o'clock, p. m.
GEO. WORRALL, Secretary.
February 7. $
■ Lost—Yesterday in the Market,
AN- ORDER drawn by capt. Richard O'Brien,
favor of Jckn Larkuii, on Mr. Tench Francis
Purveyor of Public Supplies. Whoever ha* found
the fame, i* requeued CO leave it at Thomas Lar
li urn's, 280 south Front-fttect, or at this officer-
Payment being flopped, it can be of no ufeto any
o nebut the owner. Feb. 7 3C,
Cj" Stop the Runaway.
i \ BSCONDED from his maker's employ, in the
5 xA city of Philadelphia, on the sth of this ia-.
ft am FcbMury, a Negro Man, named Mentor, a
bout 5 feet 6 or 7-inches in height, and of rather
a Ipare make ; his phifogmnny is vacant but not
4»/ «grvcable ; his age is fuj*pofed to be about 40.
He Lad 03 whtn he went away, a ihort blue cloth
coat, {lriped ca&mere veil, cordn.r#y breethes,
and yarn of a blue and white mixture—-
he took with him a blue cloth great coat, the cape
sis. which, is wuh yellow binding ; a long
brown co*t ; a £#rt blue cloth coat witti
buff coloured cape tod cvfts ; alf*, a pair of blue
cloth breeche.* ; the other cloathes he took r/it!i
him cir.not he particularly defcribcd.
It is he intends going to the eastern
ft ore of Marylmd. Whoever will apprehend, and
fecurc the fail negro in any giful, so ghat KU mailer
may get hiin ayuin, or bring kirn home, &&11 have
a reward of twkhtv dollars.
Apply to the Primer.
February 7. $
VV anted',
An a&ive, cleanly, iqdu'Qrious woman to cook
a/id do tke bu£n«fi> of the kitchen. a one
will be allowed good vragee, and no other need ap
ply.—Enquire of the Pointer*
February 7 £
Just Published,
And to be had at the Book-(U>ce« «f Dob
40N, Campbell, Ymono snd Orhios,
in Phi'tdelphin,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caules and Cure of Remitting «r Bilious
Fevers.
To "which ie
AN ABSTRACT of the op ; nionj and pradficeof
different authors > and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting intcrefling fails and reflexions relative to
the Syncchus lliertides, or Yellow Fever, which
has occaGoned so much diftref. and mortality,
at different periods, in federal of th« seaport
towns of the United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felowof tha Philadelphia College of 1 hyficiani,
and Member of the American Philo.ophical So
c'»*7- Feb. I—*3«i§
IN THE PRESS,
And fptedily will be Publjjhtd,
- For the benefit of th,
Marine society 0 f the united status,
A general plan and system of Regulations therein :
Written at S*t, in tie ye,if 1794 ;
And now printod
»r mt suthok.
" A mat? woald be maintained but to an almost
useless purpefe which taking the fearn n kept the
merchantmen idle in port, and trading vtffala
would be as unprofitable employed, if they took
311 thofefcamen v.hofeflcillandeoiwageonbcardftiipa
of war, would (jive them pr teelicn and i'eoire
their lafrty. We har- enough for both purposes ,
and the cultivating hand 0/ atlcntion alonu is want
ing to multiply their number. " Money may buy
" ill rival (lores, except mariners; but, nulefs a
" supply of them is preserved, no wealth will he
" able to procure them."
February 7. j
WANTED
A young Gentleman to go
Dofior ot a Ship to the Eafl-ladies.
Enquise at No. t 5 Do k Street.
reb6 - d.w
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
GROOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
iVJ. ureand refbetf, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the- liberal encouragement
(lie has received during four years residence in
Philadelphia ; and allures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decliue her
fckool, Ihe has made a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufcful and polite
education is particularly tttended by Mrs.
Groonibridge and matters exdeilinn in their
refpeftive profeffics. '
Corner as Spruie aud Eleventh Streetj.
June sth, 1797. Jimftf
Th» situation ii perfecniy healthy: and made
more agreeable by an cxttnfive garden and lot
ot ground adjoining the house.
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
WILL esmmance drawing Mon dry, the 10th
isll. Tickets for SaJe in this Lott:ry, at
Seven Dollarej at Wm. BLACKBIjRJJ's Lottery
aud Brokers Office, No. 64, South Scc#Rd-(lrcct—
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Doilare, where check books are kept lor regiftcr
ing and examining in rhefe, (he City of Waftiine
ton, No. ll.and Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may L« had in molljcf the Lotte
ries authorised by law iu aay of the itatcs of tha
union.
N.B. The b*finefsof a Bboxer, inbuyingand
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Secyritioe,»
disco- Bting Billi and Notes of Hand, sale of
I.avls, House., &c.&c. uilfbeduly attended to, -
b )' WM. BLACiCBURN.
Novaailier t j
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DRY GOODS.
Forenoon—Edward Fo*, No. 56,
Menelor' f ° Uth Fronr - ftr « t >
■ J Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 6j
South Front-ftrcet.
C Forenoon—John Connelly, ol<l £Mtr
TuefJav< , Au(? * Jon ' No. 73 fduio Frorit-llrect,
J Afteriwon—William Shannon, Na.
C 18.1 High-street.
W iay { A S h °^j^ r r c 74
Thurfj v j Forenoon Edward Vox.
J ■ I Afternoon—J ( )Kn Connelly.
Friday ? Forenoon—\\ illiam Shannon.
J 5 Afternoon—John Cou«elly.
SeturJaj Afternoon—Potcr Benfon.
[ 'Volume XIII.H'stS HINGT.ON L OTTERT,—No. 11.
List or Prizes and Blanks.
156 th Day's Drawing—December 00.
S'o. Dots. l\o. Dots. NO. Hols. No- Dots.
480 ao 11987 10761 36.571 x
IJ7I 499 7*4 7"
608 x 574 * * , i l 3 x
a■4l x 774 691 37°99
981 11184 * 3*°79
3058 516 9 1 * *
19a to 740 *3*39 10 3"» *
196 960 SIJ
«3» * 9»« 9 °*
1146 U349
<97 414 9'J 460
164 78S *453* * 4'4'9
44*7 W
in 14109 749 *5 4*4*9 *
■JXI 114 905 x X
914 370 *63*3 8,8 *
5479 7*5 477 44699
493 * 79* *7'3» I" x
T3» * 9 ! 5 *49 *94
6013 x 15070 *8717 4507*
29a X 511 * 754 V>l
4*4 786 879 645 *
461 16071 * «?>59 * 46396
7380 087 3»®s* * 448 x
413 x s»i '65 S3 *
47' »J 554 * 4J» * 6 ®5
jil 18288 31761 4795'
6j« B<i x 3*590 * 48105 x
7 ,0 863 x <«8 x 631
56«7 191s* 3335* 6,11
9c 1 > «*6 34393 * 739
53 si 4*J 348 *33 x
3 Jj 491 x 49» 9*7
sss * e 7 SS7 49^51
803 10030 x 73* 544
it>oto x 056 353*9
947 503 x 40*
99? 671 36*17
■ 1 ' ' „ "" :
Mr. FRANCIS '
RESPECTFULLY informs tie fubferiheri to i
his Select Balls, that the last of the ptefent Sub- ,
fcription will be »n Tutfday, tlie 13th.
Subscription aad Ladies* Tickets, to be had by
application to Mr. Francis, No. 70, fjorth Eighth
street. »«''• J'
__
FOR SALE,
By WHARTON & LEWIS,
No. 115 South Front Street.
A quantity of Tanner's Oil,
4th proof Jamaica Rum, ") entitled to
Ift and id proof Brandy, j drawback.
Madeira Wine,
Juniper Berries, &c. &c.
Feb. 9. - eo.l'f
Flax Seed for sale.
App'y to
GEO. DOBSON,
No. 25, South Third-street.
January »7
Ran away from the Subscriber,
Ob tke 24th January last,
A Black Woman, named Zelime.
SHE is ol a mtcdling'fized flaturc, thick lips,
marked with t'ie small pox in the face—She
carried off a 1 uni'l of linen with her. Whoever
lilies her up and brings her to the fubferiher, at
Vo 181, Arch-ftrcet, coiner of Fourth-street,
ihail receive two Bullars reward.
J. LAZELLESi
N. B. Whoever harbors f id Girl after this no
ticot {hall be prosecuted to tlie severity of the law.
Fckmaty ic\ 3t
~ NOTICE,
ALL persons who have any demands ngainft
the ePatc of WILLIAM CO MPT ON, lat
•f the ciry of Philadelphia, dcctafed, are requtf
ted to furnifh their accousts, duly attested. And
those who arc indebted to fiid eftut •, arecarn-.(tly
solicited »o make immediate paymeat, to either Of
the fubferibers.
Isaac Cathrall, "j
John Haworth, >■ Administrators.
Samuel Wilcox. J
January *7. wa 4 w
Balkenridge —for sale
IT consists of 910 acres, almost all of which i«
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the late
Etrl of Sterling). It may be conveniently diiided
into five farms, four of which are bounded on the
Eifl hy the river Pafaick.
Th r» are on it a number of buildings, forming
afquare of nearly three acres—The dwelling house
is a very convenient one 2nd a fmallespence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard coniifts of 1500 fiatbearing engrar
ed Apple Trees—and there it on other parts offaid
trail near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great
jrarie-y of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
best and most delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiftil Exotics and
Forest Trees, that add t« the beauty and conveni
ence of the pla-e. Itsfituation is about 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 ds.
from Morris-Town, and 12 from Springfield—lt
i« wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in cafh,.on delivery of the deeds. Pleafff to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chefnut treet.
February 2- eodtf
" NOTICE.
ALL perfoi'S indebted to the estate of Peter Gill
late of the DiftriS of Southwark, decease J,
are rcqueße'd tr make immediate paymentto ei'her
of the Subscriber.; and those who have any. de
nendsagainft said estate, arerequefled to bring in 1
their ac;oui.tsdnly attested, to
John Murphy, 1 g xccu .
Peter Scravtndyke, i-
Thomas Farrell, J '
January 16. < awaw4w
Lately Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, coraes of
Second and Chefnut streets,
(Ptict y%thi of a dctlarf
Obfervatiorts on certain Dicum/nts
{ Contained in No. V nnii VI of
« The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the"cHA*ci ol si'teoL*Ti ON »S sinft
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
t a t# S*catT*aT of the 1 riassrt, is FULLY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN SY HIMSELF.
This publication prelents a concifc ftatemtnt of
the base meacs pradiifed by the Jacol.ins of the
United States to asperse the charsAert ef tl-ole
oerfons who are confideied as hoflile their difur
eanizinz schemes. It also COPtains the correfpon
dencebetween Mr. Hamilton an,: Messrs. Monroe,
Muhleobur? and Venable, on the fubjeft of the
document, aforefair!, a„d a feres of letters frem
James Reynold's a , d his wife to Mr.Ham.lton,
t«7ine beyond the poflibility cf adouSt. that the
toiijieaion between him and Reynold was the re
fultof a daring conspiracy on the part o. Uie lat
ter and hisalociates to extort money.
1 A one third from the retail
pri'c will lemadein favor of wholelale purtha,
fers, for cash. Orders to be addrtfled to Mr.
Yoo*o.
' February 9.
%i)t
PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY n. n
LAW OF THE UNITE DS TA TES. ?
II
%stut/io%ity
fifth Congress of the United States :
AT THE SECOND SESSION,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia, n
in the State of Pennsylvania, on Mo«- t
day, the thirteenth of November, h
one thousand seven hundred
and ninety-fevea.
AN ACT r
F»r allowing a comprnjation to tht door keeper ,
of the Senate, and his affijlant, far their j
fermtes during the late feffwn of Congress. .
BE it enaSed by the Senate and House of
Representatives, of the United States of
America, in Congress afembled, That there be
allowed to James Mathers, the doorkeeper I
of the Senate, two hundred dollars, and to '
Cornelius Maxwell, his ifllftant, one hua- I
dred aßd eighty dollars, as a comperfation |
for their services during the late feflion of c
Congress. ,
JONATHAN DAYTON, I
Speaker of the House of Representatives
TH-: JEFFERSON,
Vice Prefden! of the United States
and President of the Senate.
United States 1 '
January 20, 1798. j i
Approved (
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States. <
Deposited among the Rolls in the office of (
the Department of State. 1
• Timothy Pickering, Secretary of State. 1
To the Federalijls of the Cky and County of 1
Philadelphia and County of Delaware. i
It appears from the reports of the sworn 1
committee of the senate, appointed for tbe i
purpose of determining on the validity of |
the eleftion of Israel Israel, that they have 1
decided he was not duly elefted a member j
of that body. This decision was not made j 1
until after a long and attentive examination ' ]
of the merits of the cafe, and a long and 1
patient hearing of the counsel for the fit- (
ting member. The chara&ers of those who :
compose the committee place them above <
the suspicion of being influenced, by any
considerations inconsistent with the most un
deviating re&itude, and although the con
trary idea has already been circulated in the
Aurora, yet we are all too well acquainted
with the chara&erand conduft of Mr. Bache
to be in tfyeleaft degree biassed by his pub
lications.
it is a trite observation, but it is one
which can never be too often repeated, that
the exercise of the right of fuffrage is the
most important duty of a citizen. If e<rer
there was a crisis which rendeied an atten
tion to this duty indispensably necessary it
is the present. While a perfidious foreign
foe menaces our peace and independence and
an inveterate faction at home threatens ns
with all the horrors of intestine discord, the
truly patriotic heart is indeed filled with ap
prehension and alarm : but this alarns ought
not to grow into terror, it ought to call
forth the exertions but not ftupify and par
alize the faculties of the mind. The fac
tion of which 1 speak, has always been re
markable ffir its a&ivity, entorprize and u
nioß ; of late it has been uncommonly so.
Mr. Bache himfelf when congratulating his
party on their fuacefs at the last eledtion
publicly attributes it more to the union of
their efforts than to the superiority of
their strength. Let us be equally united
and we cannot fail to be fuccefsful. It is
to be observed that the candidate who (hall
be defied will have nearly fonryeirsto serve;
that it is but too probable before the expi
ration of that period, notwithstanding
the earnest endeavours and ardent withes of
our government, we (hall be fnvdlved in a
foreign war, and that therefore whatever
may have been the opinions of any of us
refpe&fhgthe origin of our difficu'ties'with
France, there can be but one opinion as to
the union and vigor with which the war
fhoutd be carried on. By placing men in
office who are by their own acknowledg
ments hostile to the measures of our ad
minillration, if not toKhe existence of our
confutation, this end can never be obtained.
Without e»tering into the merits of the
private charafter of Mr. Israel, it mull be
obvious to all that the rcfpefiability of the
people represented must always in a great
degree depend upon the refpe&ability of
their representative. This man certainly U
not qualified by his education, or by polit
ical reflection, for a legislator ; and the past
which he can take in our public delibera
tions must neceflarily be a very confined pne.
r Oppoled to him is a man who for several
years his been engaged in public life, whose
mind is Sored with tifefiil information, and
highly embellished by literature ; whose
moral character not even his enemies have
dared to impeach, ard for difmifling whom
1 from our public caunfcls no other reason has
' ever been given than his attachment to our
| constitution and laws.
It may be proper here likewise to hint
that the issue of the next eleftion will be
' con littered in some measure, as anexpreflion'
of thefentimer.ts of the people; and that
at this time such an expriflion is of theut
moft importance. It ja n»t merely the si-
lent vpte of one man that is to be attended p<
to. The politics of the representative of h
the metropolis of the United States have a
weight to which those of the representative
of no rtther diftri£l are entitled ; and the e
lcfikion of Mr. Israel will give occasion to a
new triumph to his party ; will be viewed j
as a new proof of divisions, arid will there
fore be a new invitation to our enemies to '
imprison and thumb-screw our sailors ;
to plunder our merchants, already reduced
almost to bankruptcy by their piracies ; a- '
gain to insult our government, and there
fore once more to degrade, in the eyes of all ,
mankind, the name of America.
Already are his party at w<srk : no ex- j.
ertioßi on their part will be spared, aad it is j
only by your most vigovousVfiorts that their
hnpes can be prostrated.
MANLIUS.
* EjetraS from the charge of Judge Stephent, to T
the Grand Jury of Wilkes County, Georgia, l _
Nov. 1797 *
"In effc^tinjr changes of government, or a- t!
mending the exiflinj system, we have no need, a
but to consult, primarily, our own happinefi, t
by having the vast advantages of calmly looktn ; i {
into the forms of conflitutions, that our filler j
states live under, and with hat, of the Union ;
there can be but little doubt, but every blessing j ' !
may be expeiled, without the a : d of foreign «
phns or influence, that ci-y with them in- j t
trijue, falfe and deftru&ive philosophy, painting , ]
atheism is their schemes, jtvl Siaking the moral ;
government ef the world."
Extras from the Prefevtmsnt of thi above 8
Grand Jury. c
"We present as a grievance of the most a \
larming nat«re, the importation of negro -s into (
this Sate, whether l>y land or sea, for the pur- t
pose of ixpofing them to sale, inafrpuch as we j
conceive it to bt grsatly injurious to the welfare
thereof, and highly regugnant ta the principles 1
of a free government, and do -earnef-Iy reeom- '
mend it to the next legillature to prohibit the <
fame." t
From the Columbian Centinsl. 1
MR. RUSSELL, <
Being a fpeitator, yesterday, of the aw- t
ful scene of the deflru£tion of the Theatre 1
in Federal Street, which threatened great <
deftru&ion to other property, but which 1
was prevented by the usual exertions of the i
citizens of this town—l am fully of opini- 1
on, that many of the citizens of Boston
must be apprised of the fatal consequences
that would a rife, in cafe the Hay Muriel
Theatre, should take fire; from the fame ac
cident. The largeaefs of this wooden build
ing, would spread a most terrible conflagra
tion through the South p»rt of Boston, be
ing so near toji number of other wooden
buildings, which must inevitably fall a facri
| sice. Being also fully convinced, that the
I public exhibitions there displayed have a ten
' deney to conupt the morals of youth, and
lead them into temptations which may injure
their reputation. From the most diCnter
efted motives, and for the good of my coun
try, and the fafety of this town, I will con
tribute three hundred and forty dollars, to
wards the demolishing of the Hay Marlet
Theatre, if the Legislature of this common
wealth will wifely direst the fame, and enaft
a law to prevent the building of any thea
tres, for the like future exhibitions, in this
Commonwealth.
A Sfeci at or from thi country, nvho
leaves his name with the Printer.
An original proprietor of the Haymarket
theatre, from disinterested and iinleprndent mo
tives, but more cfpecially out of regard to the
good and fafety of the citizens of this town, is
willing to rtlinquifli his right therein, on condi
tion'that the other proprietors .will folio* his
• xample, and that the legislature of this Com
monweahh will dire*3 tFe fame to be demolilh
ed, and ena<£l a law prohibiting any other thea
tre to be erefled in future in this Coraraon
wialth—as this twn yesterday experienced*
most threatening conflagration, which it is hop
ed the good citizens of Boston will receive as a
serious admonition, to encourage theabsve de
sign ■
Any person wishing to know the proprietor's
name, may inquire of the printer.
from the Salem Caxette.
MR. CUSHING,
The question of arming our merchant
veflels, however it may be obfeured by meta -
physical disquisitions, is one of the simplest
that can be stated. If a maci, travelling on
1 the high road, has a right to take a club in
his hand, from an apprehension that he may
1 be assailed by robbers, on the fame princi
ple has he a right to put guns on board his
; vessel to traverse the high seas. If the for
: mer witty his club (hould violate the laws of
1 his country, or the latter with his guns io
• frail the laws of nations, each is amenable
i for his condtidVto those laws, and to be pun
-1 idled accordingly. Whatever may be the
1 consequences, if the principle is right—if
r nat«re herfelf, which di&ates it, is right—
-1 I hope it will be afted upon. It isaprin
- ciple which in its operation is dire&ed a
■ gainst all nations, so far as they are disposed
r to be aggrefiors, and so far I wish they may
. feel its cffe&s.
: Whatever is right, is prudent; and in
c tny opinion the arming of our vessels would
t be further prudent, because every defenfive
t mcafure would tend to prevent that dreadful
f calamity, a war; as every nation will be'
1. feared, and its friendship desired in propor
tion to its llrength.
t Every thing has its small beginnings. A
few armed veflels might indeed excite the
. contempt of those great powers, whose
il thunder makes the ocean tremble; but hif
e tory affords a thousand inftanccs, and our
d own country is one of them, of small pgw
e ers rising to uuexpe&ed ftrcngth, formida
e blenefs, and eventual triumph,
n It is to be that our government will
is never adopt, the half-way, dastardly mea-,
r sure of an embargo, which I fee recommend
ed in the Boston papers. An embargo is at
it bed adefpoti'c aft; it is tying the hands of
ic indtiftry, or turning them agiinft the pro
n' perty of others. We have a right to the.
it ocean, the great highway of all nations;
t- and when it is infefted with robbers, may
i- we have the prudence to travel with wea-
pons of defease; and if attacked, may we r
have the spirit to use them.
AN AMERICAN, t
1
CONGRESS. j
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES '
{ 2
FRIDAY FEBRUARY 9.
Tht House having refelved itfelf into a Committee j
of the Whole, on th« Report «f the Committee
©f Privileges, Mr. Dint in the Chair,
i Mr. Shipard said, the member from |
Vermont had bten g'lilty of »o iudecctricy
for which lit ought to be expelled from his (
feat. The «flense was fncli as would not (
be fuffcred in any civil company. It was >
an offen. *>without ptovoCation ; forthefirft (
offence was committed by him on the mem- (
her from Connefticut, in faying that the
members from that state fmight their own
interest at the expence of the public good. ]
He'was surprised that any Gentleman would (
defend such a man. But the offenct wa3: (
attetipted to b« mitigated, by faying that | (
the house was not in feflion. He believed
| the House was as much in fcfiion as it ever J
I was, as one half of the members were at (
i least in their feats; and the offence being ]
committed within th« walls of the House, |
i the member ought certainly to be expelled.
! If the house would not «xpel a member for (
an oflcnce so gross, what would the world ]
fay of them? They would be called beajls, .
and not Gentlemen. Bat it was said the |
constituents of the member from Vermont
would be injured by the member's axpulfioo; ,
so far from it, he doubted not nineteen
twentieths of the people of his diftriA would
fay he was deserving of expulfioa. Was a
man, who could be guilty of such behavi
ouras is complained of, fit fora l,tgifla;or?
Certainly not; no well-bred, well-disposed
man could keep company with him. The
Gentleman himfelf acknowledged that it
was his common pradlitte to feourge every
one who offends him. It was not neeeffary
therefore, to feud to Vermont to enquire
his charadler there. For his own part, he
could not consent. to fit with him. If he
must be a Legiilator, it should be in a part
of the world where all decisions were made
by jpitting and scratching. He W3S sure no
gentleman, or modest man, could plead in
behalf of fueh a raan. He hoped, therefore
' the member from Vermont would be expel
led without | spending much time upon the
business; he was sure this ought to be done
• if they had any regard to their own dignity
■ or the dignity of the country.
1 Mr. Nicholas was always desirous of the
approbation of the gentleman just fat down,
: beeaufe he believed he always a&ed from
■ the best motives. He hoped that Gtntle
i man would also have allowed that others
: might aft from principle, as well as himfelf.
■ He could not refrain, however, from do
- ing what he conceived to be his duty, what
- ever might be the motives which gentlemen
- chose to attribute to his conducV. But
t whatever his opinion might be of the mea
sures propofed to be taken in consequence
t of the offence under consideration, with res
- petit to the offence itfelf, he condemned it
» as much as any other Gentleman, as inde
cent and improper.
Mr. N. felt it neeeffary
. vations on this fubjeft, because the report
of the committee of Privileges does not state
1 faiSts as they are; he supposed it bad been
~ composed baftily, as it certainly does not
s eortefpond with the impreflion which the e
_ vidence makes. The Gentleman who in
s troductd the refelution, like a good lawyer,
has made the cast broad enough to support
* it. He has evidently given way to the im
preflion of the moment, as the evidence cer
, tainlv dors not support the allegations there
. in contained.— [Mr. N. read the refolu
a tion.] He said he could not agree to this
- resolution, because he denied that the house
was fitting, or that the offence was done in
s the view of the House.—He should make
some observations on the testimony, and
(hew wherein it differed from the report of
the committee. He needed no witness to
prove the state of the house at the time this
t tranfatlion took place —it was fully in recol
- leftion of every Gentleman. Not one of
■1 them (except the two members appointed
n to count the ballots) was attending public
n bufintfs, & very few indeed who werenot out
J of order. The area of the house was full
of squads, carrying on conversation with
! out reflraint. One article of testimony was
(trongas to this faft. * The attention of the
■f Gentleman from Maryland (Mr. S. Smith)
was drawn the convetfation holding
e round the fire behind him, by a loud laugh.
There could be no doubt, therefore, that
e the House was not engaged in business, was
not in order, was not in a situation to be
- disturbed by any tranfa&ion of this kind.
Indeed, he did not underftarid, from what
J " had fallen from the Gentleman from S. Car
d oliua, that he thought it wa6. The argu
y ment was, that the Speaker having once ta
ken the Chair, called the house tn order,
10 and, the Journals having been read, the
'd rules of the house knew of no mode by
fe which it cAld be disorganized, without an
ul adjournment.
ie ' Suppose this position was true, what re
r" fults ?. Why, that it was their business to
have been in order, and not that they were
A- so ; for, whilst the Speaker was out of his
chair, whilst the members were out of their
places, and violating the rules of order, no
f- one could fay that the house was in feflion,
ur or that it could claim rcfpeil from others as
v " a legislative body. Was it poflible, there
a* fore, for men, who were not doing what
the rules of the house required them to do,
ill to call upon of her members to keep the rules
inviolate ? But, Mr. N* said, he did not
<1 admit the principle, that the business of the
at house can uever be suspended, until an a&u
al adjournment takes place. At the time
°" when this tranfadlion happened, the house
■ had authorized two of its members to do a
s i business which aAually prevented the ordi-
J T nary business of the house froui going on.
For, he atked, if » notion could have been
made whilst tliefe membfrs w i aunting
the ballots > Upon another or. iv>n, after
th« ballot! were colle&ed, a i -.. it ion was
made to adjourn, hut it was declared to be
out of order. The Speaker gave no reason
for this opinion ; but it was obviously be
cause tellers were employed to eount the
votes, and had no: yet made their report ;
and would gentlemen fay that another mo
jion would have been better received, i»r
have been a&ed upon so as to have prevent
ed these gentlemen from doing fheir )pufi
nefs ? Ctrtainly not. There could not, the*
have b«en a Motion made. What, then,
was the (late of the house ? Were members
obliged to keep their. fer.ts, though they
could not be eall«d upon to do anybuliaefs ?
They could not be considered as Infpeftors
of the eondu£t of gentlemen appointed to
count the ballots, their distance prevented
them from having a»y such cognizance—
Here was a situation, then, when the mem
bers of the house were difeharged from any
duty for two hours, and during this period,
the tranfaflion which is now the fubjed of
enquiry, tsok place. Members raight have
gone where they pleased ; all that was re
quired of them was, to be ready to receive
the report when the Tellers were ready to
make it. Suppose a jyeat part of the mem
bers had left the house, and when they re
turned, had been told of this quarrel,- It
mult have been said, your rules consider the
house as in session, though you were abfeut,
aid the quarrel having happened, it must
be slated, as happening in rhe view of the
house whilst fitting. How, said be, rauft
the resolution be formed, To as to declare the
fa£t in such a cafe ? It rauft be, " Refolred,
that M. Lyon, for a gro'fs indecency aud
insult committed, See. at the time when the
rules fay the house might to have been fit
ting, but when, in fa£l, the house was not
in order, nor the members is the house, fee.
And was it sot a (Irong prefunaption against
this resolution, when re«ourfe must be had
to such an extraordinary form to make it
confident ? Or could gentlemen fay when
the resolution before the committee went a
broad that the house was in adual session at
the time ? They could not. He re«olle£k
ed one circumstance whieh peculiarly mark
ed the situation of the house. Near the
time when the offence now under confeder
ation was committed, one of the Senators
was feited in his chair writing a letter. He
did not himfclf think the house in feflion at
the time, and should have thought himfclf
as much at liberty a 9 if the house had not
been called to order at all. In order to juf
tify the resolution before the comraittep, the
jiaior. of the Rules had been set up against
faß. Mr. N. said he should not notice the
offence at all as done out of the hcufc, be
cause the resolution confines the aft as an of
fence against the house whilst fitting. He
did net fay this, because he was afraid of
meeting the fubjeft on that ground, but
because it was foreign to the present quof
tion.
The gentleman from S. Carolian yester
day made some observations en this subject.
He told the committee, and they had been
told the fame before, that the filuation in
which the house was at the time this affray
happened, was tie fame as whea the Speak"
er leaves the chair during the reading oF
long communications. Could any one itn
pofe on himfclf fe as to believe this ? Was it
not the duty of members to attend to the
reading of all papers presented to them i
Whereas they were not obliged to attend to
members employed in counting|hallbtß.
Since gentlemen deemed this so clear a cafe,
it was altonifhing, he fjH,that they should
rely upon so poor an argument at this.
To conllitute the crime of which themcm.
ber from Vermont flood charged, it should
clearly appear that the aft was done with an
intention to break the rules of the houft.
But, if gentleman were not fatisfied with
his fiatements to prove the house was not
in order at the time, they ninfl certainly
allow that there was fufficient reason, from
a view ?.f the situation of things at the time
to impofi upon a member unacquainted witk
the rules of the house. The trember from
Vermont had but lately got his feat in the
hcufe, and of course was not well acquainted
with its rules ; and feeing the members of
the house in the ituation they were in, the
Speaker himfclf holding a eonverfation with
him; and, though not encouraging him in
it, yet by aflcing questions, pushing him
farther into it tb; n he other wife would pro
bably have gone—the Speaker calling upon
him and. another gentleman in converfation
to take cart, or they ivoutd -wantJeconJj." When
this was the situation of things, might it not
have imposed upon any member in the houfa
Could it be (onfidercd that the Speaker
1 thought the rples of the house were likely
to be violated, when he thus fpokfe ? Mr.
N- did not pretend to fay that this conduit
of the speaker was not conformable to therules
of the house ; but he believed it was inten
ded at a private admonition, arid not as an tr
ier of the Speaker of the House.
p In taking notice of the circumstance t:n
---' d?r which this Wufinefs happeued, he did
not mean to jufiify, cr apologize for the
1 conversation of the member from Vermont.
He did not eonflder it as either decent or
jnftifiable ? but he thought there was a ju
» ftification arising out of the paflions of this
- gentV.rnan, which could not be loft fiuht of
H Before he went to this circumstance, Mr. N.
r said he would state that the report of tfec
' committee of privileges did npt agree with
> the fadts as they had been stated to the cem
s mittee of the whole. It stated in that report
* that the Speaker was fitting on one of the
t member's feats,and Mr. Grifwoldjnear him,
, that Mr. Lyon was Handing without the
* bar of the house, speaking lovd enough to
' be heard, and th:it thsTubjf& was the flat*
c of Connedljcut." It vii of importance tbat
- this statement ihouid be eorrefl, as i» would
e appear as the ait of the house. By it,it would
c appear that though the converfatinn of Mr.
a Lyon refpe&iag Connefticul." wss not ad
i" drcfled to Mr. Grifwold, the thing was
!•, tantamount, as he was present. The com
n mittee of |he whole would recoiled tha! thiswas not the eafc. It was efteblifned in proof j *
that the converfationhad continued for fonie I
time betwixt the Speaker and Mr. Lvon be- !
fore Mr. Grifwold was present ; and none iz
of the other Connefticut members werejntar T
enongh to be considered as the objefts of G
it. He would go further and fay, that it ir
was not in proof what part of the converfa- ' it
tionofMr. Lyon, Mr. Grifwold heard. 'el
The' moil o(Tenfive part of the discourse Was
the beginning of it,which it was pretty evi
dent Mr. Grifwold did not hear. Mr. Lyon
by faying that the members from
Connefticut werefeekingofScesat the cxpenfe
of the public good ;butnotoneofthewitneffcs
«„ouldfaythatMr. Grifwold heard this (oneof
them indeed thought fn,'but was not cer
tain. There was strong preemptive evi
dence, that Mr. G. was not within hear- tl
ing of this conversation, as none of the three ' ft
different observations which he made to Mr. ft
Lyon referred to the not offenfive part of . si
h - . ; l
When Mr. G. asked Mr. Lyon " if he | 2
fought the pcopU of Connefticut with a j t
wooden sword," it referred to that part of ;i(
his conversation when he said he had to fight i h
tjie people of Connefticnt when they came , t
ioto his diftrift Wheß Mr. G. said," you L
cauli net convince the boftler," it 1 c
evidently applied,to that part where he said, i b
if he were to go into the state of Connefti- 1 c
cutij be could change the sentiments of the ; 1
pe»plei and when lie added, " you could i *
not effeft your purpose, if vou took with 1
you your wooden sword," ii iiad relation to
the fame part of Mr. Lyon's conversation.
Though it must be allowed, this converfati- c
on was arrogant o» the part of the member 1
from Vermont, yet no evidence went to shew i
tbat Mr G. heard the raoft offenfive part <
of it, as it was clear no part, of what he ]
said had reference to it; and if he did hear 1
it, there was still less probability that Mr.
L knew that he w«s within hearing.
Mr. N. said, be would consider the ef- 1
feft which Mr. Grifwold'* attack was likely
to produce upon Mr. Lyon. It appeared
that for some purpose or other, which he 1
pretended not to know, Mr. Lyon's hifto- 1
ly was to be raked up for twenty years paS. 1
A franfaftion which at that distance of tinse :
took place, had bee* introduced with a view
of finking him in public estimation. The
fir ft time this painfnl circumstance was in- ;
troduced to Mr. Lyon, he refufed to take :
notice of it; but the gentleman from Con
nefticut laid hold of bim which was tanta- j
mount to faying you Iball listen to what I
have to fay, and repeated the sarcasm.
Mr. N. said he did not kuow, btcsufe he
hated questions of privileges, and thought
they ought always to be avoided, except
pressed by necessity, from their incompeten
cy to decide upon them, what ought to
have been the conduft of the gentleman
from Vermont on this occasion. But let
gsntlemen throw this member to what dis
tance they pleafs from them, they mull al--
low him tx» possess some feelings in common
with themselves. They could not suppose
he would be willing to refig* a charafterand
{landing, which had been obtained at the
price of long service. And though gentle
men may consider themselves as vastly more
enlightened and refpeftable than the mem
ber "from Vermont, they cannot expeft he
is devoid of every principle of felf-love.—
Could any gentleman have forborne »o take
notice of an insult of the kind which was
offered him? It is impofiible. He did not
pretend to fay, that the particular aft with
whijch the gentleman from Vermont resented
the affront was the most proper; he did not
know what would have been proper. He
did not know in what way such an insult
fliould have been treated.
Gentlemen would probably fay he ought
tahave foreborne noticing the sarcasm. But
did not gentlemen know that there was a
circumstance in thismember'sGtuation which
rendered it a peculiar one?. If he had had
recourse to the ordinary mode of fettling
diffcrehces, would it not have been said to
hiin, "No; you have been cartvtered—you
are infamous, I will not meet yo« as a gen
tleman." In what way, then, could this
member have {hewn to the world, that if he
had once failed in bis duty, he was ready
n*w to (hew that he was no coward, and
that he had been injured and abiftd in the
former tranfaftion. He a(ked, whether be
. ing placed in such » situation, there was not
some apology to be made for afting in the
manesr he did? Nor did Mr. N. think
the mode which Mr. Grifwold had taken
to repel any thing which the gentleman from
Vermont had said against the representatives
from Connefticut was the best cale»lated for
the purpose.
IF tb<?u, there was an extenuation of the
conilud of Mr. Lyon, either from the dt
vation of the house at the time, from his
being inexperienced with refpeft to the rules
of the house, or from his peculiarity of fit
nation, as to the (ligma which had been re
vived upon his charafter with refpeft to his
eeurage, be did not think it was a cafe which
called .for the feverelt pumlliment which
could be inflifted. If the highest pariifh
ment were to be inflifted in this cafe, what
■would gentlemen do, where 1 man should
render bimfelf infamous, when a man (liquid
be found so defrftive of moral principle as
Jo be wholjy unfit to hold bis situation ? To
al confidently, he thought they (hould al
low of some grade, in the nature of offenc
es,
Mr. N. Concluded by noticing an obser
vation from gentlemen advocating the moti
on, cautioning gentlemen against being in
fluenced by a spirit of party ia the present
decision; he thought iuch obfervatiuns
would be best omitted as they would wpe
rate equally on both fides.
( Delate to be continued.) ,
QVAL BOTTLES.
Quart and half gallon in eratei —and a quanti
ty et Claret Bottle* of a right fir<- — r «r fair at
No. 13, Church Alley, JOHN DP/t.' GY.
Jimiary 11 itawfiv-
ALEXANDRIA, Feb. 7. j a
The birth dayof oor worthy Felloe c;t- !
ir.en General GEORGE WASHING- . f
TON, will be celebrated, by a ball at Mr. t
Gadlby's tavern on Monday the 12th inft. 1 a
in which the gentlemen of Alexandria and c
its vicinity, are invited to participate. Tick- ; f
cts of admission to be had at the barr. (
William Herbert "I C
Jonathan Swift
George Denealc ~ r
Michatl Fiannery Managers.
Francis F. Peyton • I
Gcerge fV. Crai&\ v ft
- [)
NORFOLK, Febroary 3. , I
On Thursday arrived ia Hampton Roads \ _
the fnew William, Wells, 43 days i
from Liibon bound to Baltimore. From c
Mr. Brandram (a gentleman who came pas
senger in the above vefTel) we have informa
tion that he read in a London paper of the
27th or 38th of November, an account of
the arrival in London of one of the Amer
ican Qommiffioners from Paris, but which
he dues not recoiled. He further informs,
that he had it from the best authority that
lord St. Vincent, with his fleet and the whole
of the British troops were to evacuate Lis
bon in the course of a few weeks. The 1
queen Portugal had forwarded 80 pounds <
weight of diamonds to Paris in part pay- 1
■ment of "the sum stipulated for in the treaty I
made between her and France. _ '
February 6.
At a late hour la ft night, capt. Ceiley, 1
of the (hip Flora, arrived ia .town from
Hampton Roads, where his {hip oow lies,
after a passage of 44 days from Gnernfiy.
Capt. Coiley politely handed us London pa
pers of the Ilth, 15 th and 19th December;
he gave a few to some of the officers of the
British ships of war, lying in the Roads.
From those we received we ha6en to give
the following crude funnmary of
LATE" EUROPEAN NEWS.
That Generals Buonaparte and Joubert
had arrived on the 6th of December at Pa
ris ; that a great part of the army of Italy
had returned into France—that a new con
spiracy has taken place in Paris, and that a
Dumber of the conspirators were committed
to the Temple ; that the Pope refufes to
acknowledge the independence of the Cis
alpine Republic, in consequence of
ten thousand republicans are marching to
wards Rimini", to support the demand of
the Cisalpine ambafiador ; that every exer
tion is making in France to organize the ar
my which is to aft against England. It is
alio laid at Paris, that the Pope has enter*
ed into a secret treaty w'ith the Emperor of
Ruflia ; that the King of Pruflia'is dead ;
and that in eonfequense of the ratification
of the treaty* between Portugal and France,
the Englift troops at are reduced to
extreme want ; Earl St. Vincent Hill con
tinues off the harbor of Lisbon.
Stoeks experience but little variation—
on the 12th Dec. Consuls were at 49 1-2.
On the 14th Decomber, Mess. Fox Sher
idan and other members of the opposition,
attended in their places, in the house- of
Commons ; their attendance was occasioned
by the general alarm which Mr. Pitt's new
financial hill has caused in all parts. The
debates, although very lengthy, (hall be
given as soon as possible.
Of our Comraiffioneri-we have no other
account than what was received by a vessel
from Havre, which had put into Guernf
ney in distress, prior to Capt. Colley's fail
ing, which informed, that there wer* three
CommifEoners appointed on the part ot the
French republic, to treat with ours ; and
that the general opinion was that matters
would be amicably adjusted.
By this clay's Mail.
NEW-YORK, February 10.
The following ■ pentlcmen lisve been tiered
Direilors of the United States Rrinjh Bank of
this city, for the enfoing year—
Cornelius Ray, Thomas Buchanan. Gerard
Bancker, William Laiglit, Nicholas Low, Ma
thew Clarkfon, Robert Lenox, J»hn N'urray,
John Atkins >n, Gabriel Ludlow, Philip Living-
I (ton, William Minturn, John I. Glover.
From the Commercial Aivertifer.
Mr. Editor,
Since the elUblifhment of the United Infur
: am e Company, in this city, they have fuft^ined
the following leffes, viz.
t By Spanish captures 16 9 dollars.
By Rritift captures 9937 ditto
By Sea Risks 111,901 ditto
1 By French captures 178,766 ditto
502,114 dollars.
The want of a little accuracy in the preced
" ing ft«tement, need not prevent your alking Mr.
s Nicholas, whence he obtained Misinformation,
s when he so falfely declared in his lad fpeecb in
. .Congrei's, " That the British were the greatcft
. aggrflTors I" * TRUTH.
New-York, Feb. 8.
N. B. When the Key-York Insurance
1 Company, and, what are called, the out-door.
1 underwrite™, furnifh lifts of their lofles, it may
- induce the anti's in the house to adhere a little
t more to fa£l». Our member, I imagine, has
•J never applied for information similar to the
j above.
' BOSTON, Febnury 5,
CONSUMMATE VILLAINY AND MVRDZft.
. [The following very extraordinary letter
was handed us on Saturday eveniug far
publication-3
States of America, January 1798.
MADAM,
t I am one of those people who subsist on
the spoils of the Traveller, hut if tjie spark
of humanity was entirely extinguished fro»
my breast, you would never gain this, or a
ny ot-her information of a person who was
very dear to you—you will of course heap
curfev on the villains who have deprived
you of v#ur hvtfband. But your etirfes or
blefiings is a matter of indifference, as I am
lt well affurcd that every pre«aution neaeffary
• is taken for our security.
j As o»y woriiwaf paffedforthis indulgence
thcfe lines will find a conveyance ta yc:i. |
i and operate fur your interest hereniter.
j Yoii muS know madam, that it was my
fortune,. wi,'H two or three of my afTociates
Ito fall in With a Mr. Oliver Johnson ; c
! after taking rrojn him his cadi to the a<i unt t
of about 1800 dollars, we mutually agreed 1
; for our own ficurity t» di!patch the said 1
Oliver Johftfon, and informed kirn of eur i
determination. <
Immediately when l»e saw his fate deter-
mined upon he craved these two favors— j
viz. thut we would write to hi 9 family which <
•he said lived in Weftroortland, aad direA <
i the letter to b* lert at the Poft-Office in 1
; Walpole, (N. H.) to inform you of his t
fate ; and his last requclt is that Colonel <
Joseph Enrt, and Ezra Peirce, admin Her <
upon his cftate, and wilhes thdra to assist his 1
diftrefifed family.
To the wife of Oliver yobnfea, 1
/ale of Wtjlmor eland. J '
A true copT-V-atteft
THOMAS K. GREEN,
JOB. F. BOOKS, i
JOSEPH BURT, 1 Selectmen of
JOSEPH BUFFUM,| Weftmoteland
SAVANNAH, January 19.
Ob the 17th inft. Arrived schooner Har
riot, Capt. Da Cafta, ia 13 days from St.
Croix—who informs, that the day previous
to his failing, a gentleman arrived from
Cayeme, wboi»formed him that the Cor
vette which had on board the banifted mem
bers fro* France, had captured the veflel
he was in from London, and four others,-
*ll for the ifiande; and that Pichegru, Bar
thelemi, and several others, were agreeing
with an Ameaiean captain to bring them to
this country.
%fjc oa3Cttc>
PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVENING, FESRVARY it.
MARRIED] —On Saturday evening
lift, by the Rev.. Dr. Rogers, Mr. Wil
liamson Nutter, of Whitehaven, Great
( Britain, to Miss Sarah Wallace of this
citV.
/ # *
We are afTnred that Benjamin R. Morgan,
( Esq. will, if elefted, accept the office of
Senator, in the legifliture of Pennsylvania,
p any reports to the contrary notwithstanding.
Mr. Peale has conftrudted a stove in hii
Museum, which entirely confumet all the
smoke ofitifuel, which with very little wood
p keeps two rooms, that are very large, quite
comfortable both day and night.
> .
1 Extradl of * letter from Lilbon, dated De
' cember 12, 1797.
" As to news, we are in the dark, it ha»
bee* reported that Portugal had made her
peace—some fay it is concluded, otheis that
it is sot, and that a.strong army is ordered
to march against the kingdom.
" The thretf American envoys are at Pa
p ris, and have been there some time -noth
j ing transpires liere of what they are doing."
' Extr»<st of a letter rec-ived from New Englaniby
e a gentleman in this c ty.
e " Some of the fttrirtt in Conjreft, I perceivs,
inSlt that the powers of the houft of ?epref«nta
r tives n»ght to be si erereifed, as that tht executive
1 fisall be redscei to nothing. The President is to
appoint foreign fninifters, but the hoefc is to pro
" vide only for minitersto such conrts, and «f luch
I- diplomatic gradts, as they fee fit. Pray, how
e much would tb« latter of the coaftitution be worth,
f if the fplrit of it were t«. Le drawn ass into the
1 honfe, as proposed ?
( It i« faying to the President, in r«fpe<ft »o thisun
-3 denhtsi branch of his conftitational authority,
" l~ovJtall be ricertyt iert, '/.* true,
' • But we'll bt Visercyj over you"
106 Prcfidtnts are too many frr any govern
msnt except Babel. Our conllitntion, wj hope, is
not to be quibbled away ; let cong-r:« mak» lar/s ;
l»t the I'rellient fesd ministers. "1 Me cterral third
of the democrats, to usurp t!ic treety mniin* frwtr,
:»better ucdcrftood fiace the f«rm«ni:,tio!i through
)f out the union, when tr.» appropriatims for the Bri
tlh treaty, were arreilad in tH« hoal'e ; than it was
d before.
1- Indeed, f«r a few years after the conflitution
r, *ll adopted, we took every word in co»gref>, for
true; and wbon a democrat, like a Joseph Surface,
in the'" Sibetl/tr SctnJal" rofo to defame the Trea
fary and War Departments, it was always with a
moral featimert in bis month, of late, we under
fland this lingo,and know it to guUi.
A Virginian fayi, " we w»»t no foreign inter
j eourfe" i eaes lent thi«,to cosae from the rery lip*
thatattercd f» many arguments in oppotition to a
ny measures of felfdefenee, till we could hear frpm
France ! Then, all duty, all prudence and wifdooi
were relative' to France, and only toJrance. Some
men hare bad memories. The idea of that Virgi
nia member, as to the danger ot tarnetny between
the three braacbes of our government, denotes the
vifirnary wildnefc of a jocsbin braio. According
to him, the only way to prop a falling lioufe i» to
1- divide it. Pray Sir, is Bediani represented, or is it
r. empty, beeaufe its tenants have all turned poli i
n, eiaiu ? Can it be, that Virginia fends its beli,dif
in posed and mod discerning men, or do thty flay at
ft home ?
I w»nder at the (Iracge extravaganee of some
whoieprefent them ; aoi really believe few North
.t ernbeads arc made like t'hea.
or Here, we all fay, the democrats endeavour tofet
the head of the government on tho wrong end of
i_ tho body politic."
js ~~
lc Philadelphia, Ftbruary 10, X 792-
At a meeting of a nuaherof citizens, at the
bouse of Mr. Moore, the corner of Fourth and
Chefnut flreets, Mr. James Kerin the chair :
I he following resolutions were unanimouQy
agreed to :
er That, taking i: to eonfideration the patrio
ar tifm and abilities of Ifrad lfraal, as well as tbe
manner in which the rights of bit cenftituents
have been affedled by a late decision of a com
mittee of the Senate, which has not only involv
ed the diftrifi in » confidctable expence, but
>n much loss of time to individuals : Therefore re
rk solved, that we will support the said Israel Ifiael
it) as Senator, to be voted for the zid instant.
Refolverf, the proceedings of this meet
i"C he published in the different papers of this
city, as well EhgliUi as German.
! P Attift—William Duncan, See.,
cd
The managers of the City Dane
,rK Affrlfcbly give r«tice that the annivrrf*ry Ball
V Y to ro.-rrrerooratr th« birth of Geoig* Wjuhinc
ton, wi)i Uc held at Mr the lad
CC Feb. 12. §tz:il
eoMMWie.irieift,
-
Lyon. •;;
A correspondent observes, it isfomewViat I
carious that the gentlemeu in Congress from "t,
the Southern States, where it is said people 1 ,
have keen sensibilities and correft rations of i i
honor, fhontd difc»ver so little refeatmeKt at j|
Mr. Lvon's putting a stain upon the nati- ( '
onal char*£lcr, which nothisg can wipe a- 1 '
wsy but thf mot rigorous proceedings a- ~
gain! that member. It is ty be hoped how
ever, siotv/ithftanding the apaihy of fo«ie •
of ttie Sdnthern delegates, that for the ho- 1
nor of the Hou(e of Repreftnt*tiv;s,«nad 1
the refpeiS whieh is du« to the Aweriean
Cbarafter, titore than two thirds of that bo
dy will vote for the expulCoa of tlw Vermont
member.
Hjvi the dcfnecrats akfolutely loft tlisir
feufes? are they totally deprived of all rea
soning powers, and refleftiag faculties?—
They have Icug aiTamed to thsmfelves the
f«leguafdianfhiphopcof ourliberties,the sole,
*nd inviolable protestors of our happy con
stitution. Yet, now behold, in the very
face of the government, are they, in spite
of an-exprefs clause in the constitution, a
bout iuftituting an order *f Knighthtod, and
confequeutly, of lilies. An order, too, which
from the arms thty are cenftantly to be girt
with, is calculated to inspire dread, and to
fill our whole country, with fear, and trem
bling appre'nenfion. .1 hope that this insti
tution will be crushed in its bud—for, if it is
fnffered to affumc any thing like the fliape,
at prefetit hinted at, what with the original
founders, and the honorary members which
it ia supposed will be admitted, the lives and
persons of our peaceful citizens, will be
held in cpnftant jeopardy. For is it possi
ble to conceive any thing more terrible than
a Knight of* the IVeoden Sword, in full ar
mour?— alias, Sir A. B. Sir C. D. &c.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
Philadelphia, Feb. 3. 1798.
Six Per Cent. 16JH
Three per Cent. io/j
Deferred 6 per Cent. I.t/j
BANK United States, v ao
.l'ennfylvania, 23 per cent.
North America, 50 per cent.
Insurance Co. Pennsylvania, 10
N. A. (hares 41 dividend off.
GAZET7 E MARINE LIS 7.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
The following outward bound vessels were at
Reedy Island, on Priday, when captain Wickham
came awty. *
Ship Edward, Wickham, f«r Arafterdam
Ann and Mary, Billis, Bourdeaux
Wilfeington, Hillman, Hamburgh
John Bulkley, Volans, Batavia
Jofephus, Wilkins,
Sally Butler, Chifeolm» St. Mary's
Brig Goorge, Howland, Madeira
Betsey, Doyle, Augustine
Anoerican, Burke, La Guira
Maria, Sberer, Charlc(lon
Tryal, Talbot, Trinidad in Cuba
Elizabeth, Fullerton, _ Teneriffe
Sloop Union, Hawkins, N. Ciroiina
A fbip with paintod ports, a copper bottom
edfehboner and many others unknown.
Theflii; s Cleopatra, Wills, for Canton ; Al
exander Hamilton, Potts, Martinico; Boflon
Paeket, Copperthwait, Londonderry, and sloop
Eli?a, Cotticll, from New-Yorfc, are at the
fort.
The brig Sukey, Whitten, with 4 8 paflen- |
gets for Londonderry,and'fehooner Uettey,Cou
ncil, for C. Francois, are.albore oppofitc the
l r ort.
Capt.Wickham informs that on Friday morn
ing a tierof vefltls broke from their fattening
at the upper Pier mdfwung round, in confe
que-nce fotne of them Ty very mveh exposed to
the ice, parti> nlarly tbe lohn Bulkley,
The brig Peggy, .Alcorn, from La Guira, to
this port, has arrived at Chai lelton, the Peggy
was nine lays in prdellion of a Britifli cruiser,
but finding her papers clear they dif: i(Ted her.
The ship Star, Woodman, from London v a
Kew-York lay at Reedy iflatid when sapt. W.
came away.
Baltimore, February 7.
We have onee more the pleasure of announc
ing, that tbe navigation of our river and h'ar
bour is entirely freed I torn its icy Ihackles ;
but tikis pleafui e would be heightened into joy,
eeuld we announce that our commerce is unmo
leiteflcd by the freebooters of the ocean.'
Arrived at Baltimore, Feb. 7.
Ship Abigail, Graham, Havanna
Abigail, Kein, W.lndies
SndV' William, Wells, Lisbon
Brig Ci'rnraerce, Child, Newport
Caroline iVilliams, Reed, W. Indies
Ssh'r Kero, Smith, do
Mary, Huie, do
Hawk, Barry, do
Bee,retcrs, . Salem
James, Wallace, Newberm
Sloop Betsey, Brooks, Virginia
Ranger, Ingraham, Deighton
Swift, Hallanre, N. Carolina
Charles, Barbine, Norlolk
Xaney A. Peggy, White, N. Carolina
LONDGN, November 10.
On motion of Mr. Kyder, for the lioufe of
commons to :efolve itfelf into a committee of
tbe whole hoHfe, oh the Treaty between his Brit
annic majefly and the United States of Ameri
ca, Mr. Nicholls remarked to his majcly's
ministers, that the bill proposed to be brought
in did not go to the extent requ red both by the
commercial and political interests of this coun
try. He said that all regulation of ihe inier
courfe between the United States of America and
the Uritilh islands in the Weft-lodiet, was en
tnelv left out in the proposed bill. Tnisinter■
eourfe was left as it hau been ever lince the
peacs with America, to be regulated on the spur
of the occafien, by orders of council, or the
proclamations of governors in tie Weft In
dits: as a pre of of this, he took notjee of a pro
elaoiation lately ilTued by tbe governor of Bar
badoes, Hating 'he danger to whieh that ifl.ind
was exposed from the faircity of provi
fior.s, and inthorifing, for a twelvemonth, the
introduction of proviSons anil lumber into that
island, in American ihips of any burthen He
•blerved, that while we peifevcred in holding
this language to the Americans, vix. " We will
purt rase irom yoir when we cannot procure
commodities we want elsewhere i but, when
we cannot procure them elsewhere, we will net
I purshafe them of yu," we fhoultl never be con
! fiJerd hy the Aiiericirs as valuable cuflomers ;
i
Irbr u oivid they be to jltpptyUl ;n til
hoar of tiiflreA. lie rfminil.'d tV I) i'H'« t!i,»t
w'nfM the prrfriit oala'tvtoin war tprmirutcd***
! nu<l riwt.ft jwartfl this c jiijiWy, ti2 a ci'v-
J test ••hctbc tliis "-runtry (houlcl r. uin 4t» a
[ tior. as a commercial r.stion. Jh this cocte'.lj
1 eur inter; »u!'fe with A incrica wa« of the firll
i impomui*. The fivvrnt o/France, during the
prtlent wir, would prohaMy give her great ad
vantage* in the commerce, on the return of
peace ; •vetr.irlit cj(iei3 10 fee h'erlhemoft fa
voured iiatioß in Holland, in Germany,in Spai*<
' in Paly, in all the Ustes which border on tie
, Meiliterranri*', and perhaps even in Portugal.
{ But, in a commercial inffreouHe vith Ameri-
I ca, every circumstance was favorable to this
country : this country wifh.tl to fell m.i%jfj<ft
uret a d purchafc raw materia!* ; America, on
the ronlrary, wilhed to fell raw materiali, and
juirchafe iniiiulaflurrs. Commercial inter
court# must, from this cir«uinftance, be benefi
cial to h.th countries, Even (he cbfiinate per
fev r*nc» of his majePy'n mini iter*, in fettering
the intercouife<;etweeo the two countries, had
not been able to prevent i>*r commerce with A
merica from being carried to a great extent, tho'
itr.ertiinly had prevented it from being carri
ed to that extent to which it would have attain
ed if it had been left unlettered, and regular
ed onlyby the mutual wants of the two coun
tries. He rem nded them,that leurteen
elapfedGncepeacfcwap concluded tv.fh America;
yet oar in inilters bad not been able.iii all that time,
i to fix the jntercourfc with America on a per
manent foot in?. He urged them to take ad
-1 vantage of theVbappy mnment which now pre
sented itfelf. Amerrct is now on bud terms
i with France ; this then is the moment at whic'n
from this co ntry, for a complete and
. permanent regn ati m ofcomiriercialihtercourfe,
! will be listened to by America. Our political
interests were in union, in this refpefl, w.th our
' commercial interests. What country was capa
ble of being a more nfrful ally to Great-Uriraift
i thai) (he Oni ed States <>f America? Our pofT
l eflions ir the Weft Indies depend on Americi
; both for fiibSltemce and protefliou. The fame
. hab'ts, the fame language, the fame fentithentt
on religious ftihjcil,—Fojdnn bub'err majorcs,
eadrm manumtnta, w ere cirComftinces which
rnufl necefilirily promote both commercial and
jiojlticah CtmneAior p. He warned the minis
ters not to fuffer the pre'ent happy opportunity
to escape them, but to come for* ard and fix the
intercourf; between the two countries on per
manent regulations. He ca tioned them -ot ta
endeavour to (hew their flcill in-the arts and chi
cane of negociation, but to'eftablifli I'uch terms,
that both Great-Britain and America might ac
knowledge that the intircourfe was equally be
neficialto both countries.
NEW-THEATRE.
.
THIS EVENING,
FEBRUARY 12.
Will lie prefenited the TRAGEDY of
MACBETH.
f Maeheth, mr Fennell (being his firft appearance
R in that ehara&cr these four years)—Duncan, xnf
I/Eftrawge—Malcolm, mr Fox—Donalbaine, nir
i T. Warrell—»Madcnff, mr Wigncll—Banquo, mr
k Warren—Lenox, mr Marfhall—Siward, rar Mor
i ris—Seytoa, mr Warrell, jun—Doctor, mr War
a rel!—Meflenger, mr Bj^rtt.
Lady Macbeth (firll time) fhrs Hardinge—Gen
s tleweman, mrs L'EPtrange.
a Hecate, mr Darley—Firft Witch, mr Bernard—
e Second Witch, mr Francis—Third Witch, mr
a Hnrwood. s
n With n«w Drcfles and Dccor#tion».
a To which will he added, the C omic Opera of
THE PADLOCK.
a Don Diego, Mr. Darley—Leandcr, Mr.
Marihall—-ift Scholar, Mr. WarreJl jun.—ad
Scholar, Mr. T. Warrell—JbCungo, Mr. Ber
nard—Leonora, Mrs. Marshall—Ursula, Mr? #
n L'EOrar^e.
) The celebrated, grand, heroic Pan
e tornime Ballot of OSCAR AND MAL
| VINA, which has been some months in
' | preparation, will be performed, for the firft
c time, on Wednesday next—Particulars in
fnturc Bills.
Bex, one Dollar ; Pit, three quarter® of a Dtl-
lar ; and Gallery, half a Dollar.
The doors of the 1 h-atre will cpan at tiTe,
0 and the curtain rife precisely at fix o'clpck.
Plates lor the to be taken at the Office in
3 the front of the Theatre, from io till 2 o'clock,
and from io till 4.onfthe days of performance.
Tickets to be had at H. and P. Kick's bo k-Oore,
' No. 50 Market-flreet, and at tlie OfHetf adjoining
; the 1 hcare. VIVAT £2,S}>UBLICA!
At Mr. Rickets's Circus,
Comer of ChefHUt and Sixth flreets,
On TUESDAY CYeting, Febrbary 13,
Will be exhibited a Grand FIRE WORK, conilt
inj of two kinds «f Fir-i. And for the firft tisnt,
twe Men and tw« Horfea will ride round tbe Cir
cus fj»rrouorf«d with Fire«\york*.
' Fin norks ftftflin* ntirtly of injlamfntb'e air, vir,
A of the arm* ua Pennsylvania.
Tkol'ij New-J«-fey, New-York, Mairachufatts,
Charleston, Ac. &c.
z The principal illuminations are, those of St.
'* London; St. Peter's, of Ro*ie ; the inva
n !id hefprtal, the baftile, and Varihall, at )*kri*,&e.
"t Fire uuorh conjiJUng of various combinations of cumbuf.i*
?S kit maitersy viz.
Th« great American fus 1 ifmjr from its horizon.
Tke grand wind-mill of Don Quix®tte,
with its changes,
a A great mechanical piece, changing into different
nv figures every tine it turns.
ia The surprising pi«ee •£ Bacchas ; a mechanical
n f '« cc -.
ia A picee representing eafcadesin erery dir. diot,
j. and teruinating in a
a The great Italian rose ; a piece of Tiriativea.
A great pertice ornanarnted with four spiral eo-
lumns, and crowned with a balluftrade, with the
artr.s of the United States in the centre ; a piecn
>f uniting koth kinds of fire.
>f Fitteen Chinpfe fqaibs, with fiftren fixed fttrs,
t-' will terminate tliii fwperh fire work, which Mr.
j_ AMIROISR, Irem his attention and e.rpcrjce?.
r 8 flatters hi'nfelf will afford the pnblic a melt agiee*
|t able diversion.
e And in addition, a furprifirg CHILD, nine yeare
1 old, will execute a Concert, composed l»y
r _ Plcyel, o« the Forte Piano, newly invented by
j Mr. a . Ihretch. The 'lnfant Virtwofo is a pupil of
a celebrated tnafler of thi city.
tr The doors wiU be opened at 5 o'clock, and
r ' the fire-works will begin at 6 o'clock.—Box. three
,c quartern of a dollar ; Pit, three-eighths of a dol
-1 Ur.—Days of peVfufwanre, Teefdty and Satur
,c j A y —Tickets to be had at the C. ir#«s, or at
lers'i Hotel.
3 .
r - A Haufe in Burlington for Sale.
'T"HE fuhfetiber h's a Urgt, convmicnt two*
1 story brick Houfr, with Stahles, Carr'nge
lf houlV, and a well improvfd Garden, in the Citr
of Burlington, New-Jersey, which he wiffte? to
sill. For termtapply at No 5, South Fourth
street, to GFORGE WALKER,
Who has also for Salty
:n Lots in Walhington City,
r t Contiguous to the Capitol ind to the principal
n - harbcur.
' : December 19. . 701Public Sale of Real Estates.
On THURSDAY Evening, the 15th of
Fehrij ary »iext, will be exposed to Public Sale,
at the Merchants' Coffee-hoof j in Seeond-ilacct,
at i o'clock in rhe cvenine;, rhe following
ESTATES.
No. 1. A two story brick Heuie, with t tw»
(lory frame Buiklings, o« a lot i® feet front and
10c feet deep ; 3lfb, a vacant Lot of 40 feet lquare,
with the privilege of an alley to go thereto. This
interest has lately bean let for aoo dollars per an
num, and is firuatcd in Chrfftiaa-fir est, between
Front and Second ftreots, the fecoad houfc from
Mr. C«;leb Aih's.
No 2. A throe story brick House, situate at
the anrthcaft corner of Chofnut ftroots, beung 14
feet on Seeond-ftreet, and 20 feet on Chcfnut-
now in the tenure of Mr Morange, at the
yearly rent of 400 dollars, and n decrn«a one of
the heft stands for the sale of dry g«*ods in this^city.
No 3. A handsome well finifhed throe story
brick House, 20fcet front and io«feet deep, situ
ate in Fifth-ftrcot, between Market and Areh
ilreots, No. 40. Tliisi oafe is built and &ni(ked
in the modern style, is in complete repair, with
double cellars under the whole Thote is a ciilera
of rain water in the yard ; and the house is at pre
fer t lrt for 600 dollars per annum with the taxes.
No. 4. A throe story brick House, situate in
PUimb-ftreet, between Second and Third-street,
bciag 20 feet front and 13© feet deep, at prafent
occupied by Robert Kenny.
No. 5. A tbrcc (lory brick House, oa the bank
fide of Front-ftreat, No. 171 North, goiag thro'
to Water-street, whore it ia ftve story. It is io
feet front and 48 feet deep, in complete repair,
and is rented for 600 dollars per annum.
The conditions of Sale arc, one quarter cash,
one quarter in 6 months one quarter in 9 months,
and one* quarter in 12 rmoaths.
Philadelphia, >n 12,1798. 3^lsP
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, piopoGng to coatra# his busi
ness, offers this Estate for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine* and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair ot stones ; also a good Forge, all
in perfect repair, as are all the Water Works conne&-
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately bailt for the pfcrpofe of catting Onuon
for this State.—There are ibou two thou land acr-es
of Land, ene half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Paflore. The Cannon lately mannfadtured there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which r«
Superior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one ot fixty«nine guns
lately made, although some of the 24 were bored
into 3a pounders have failed on proving. The fnu
tiion is very eligible, particularly fw this branch of
manufa&ure, and a place of arms lying in the (late
of Conne&icut, and only 50 miles from fevetal land*
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can rofult from a plenty of water MTuing
fr®m a terge natural pond, very near the Furnaoe,
tnd whi h may be converted into a variety ©f other
ufcfuJ purpofca. Hie purchaser can he accommodat
ed with all the ftoek and utcnfils, and have
on or before the Hrft of June next, and preparation
may be made in the mean time for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every nait will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, Ac. See. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia ; David Brooks, ECq. one of the Reprefentacivet
jr> Cotjrefs lor this Stat-c ; Mr, fiivid Watrrman, on
the preinifes, or to the ptoo'ietnr in Nrw-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Der. t. 3*wtf
Recently Publijbed,
Aad just imported England, by William
GatWiTHs, No. 177, South Second street, and
may be had of Moug nJ. Rhe»s,
A Cheap and valuable work, in two closely
printed volumes .in Bvo. (price $ dollars)
Illultrations of Prophecy :
Id which are elucidated many predictions, which
occur in (fajah, Daniel, the writings of the Evaß
gelifts, and hook of Revelation ; which are tho't
to /oreteli among oth*r great events, a revolution
iu France, ;avorable to the interests of mankind,
the overthrow of the papaJ power and of ecclcfi
afltcal tyranay, the downfall cf civil despotism,
and thafubfequent melioration of the ftata of the
world : together with
A large colleflion of Extrafis,
Inttrfpcrfcd through the work, and taken from
numerous commentators, particularly from
Joseph Mede\ Sir lfaac Newton,
Vin inga Mr. William Lowth,
Dr. Th. Goodwin, Fleming,
Dr. Her,, y More, Ben^elius,
Di». John Owen, Dau^us,
Dr. CrcffentT, Whitby,
Peter Jnrieu, J owrran,
Bren us, Bishop Newton, and
Ei(hop Chandler, Bi(hop Hurd.
By JOSEPH LOMAS TOWERS.
Besides various other inquiries treated of in
tins work, tnd numerous il!uftration» of prophecy ;
it contains a eonflderable number of fads or ob
servations on the fymkolic language of prophecy,
the authen icity, uies, and .kfcurity of the apo
calypse, and tht genuincscfs of the Hebrew pro
jhcta ; on the rapid eorruptien .f ehriflianity ia
the fourth century ; on the difparlioa andreftora
tioa of the Jews, the hitlory of the falfe MeOiahs
who hava appeared among them, and the reasons
is support of the conjrAure that th« Afghans are
the dsfeeudanti of the tea tribes ; oil the right of
rafifta: ce to oppression; rm the irrpptionsof th<
northern nations, and the caMfesef the dccliae and
fall of the Roman empire ; on the cuftonu of the
Tartars, and the independence of the Arabs; on
the eonqucfc of those nations, and those of the
Torks; on the ufurpntion of the Mamalukes, abd
tka pall history and present state of Egypt; on
the rfiaraAcr andcondaiftof Conftantine, JuUini
n, Clovls, and Lewis XIV j on the fearcity of
books in the dark ages, and the caufcs of the d»-
eliiK of literature ; on th. rapid rife of the French
monarchy, and the camfej of its fall; on the in
ponfiftencies in the political characters of bifliops
Newton and Hurd ; on the peculiarities of Dr.
Th Burnet's theory of the eatth ; on the beneficial
effcifts which ehriflianity fias produced in favor of
karningan I civil littrty, an<i its tendency topr.-
motetheeftiblifhment of equal governniwts.
Independent of the large proportion of original
natter contained in thefc volumes, those who are
tntctefted in thefubjefl will, it isprefumed, wilh
to peruse or confultthcm, because the extrafis in
troduced ia them, which are accurately cited, and
marked with inverted commas, are fr.hi a
greater number of writers on the prophecies (a*
least if the rstnan catholic commentators be ex
eltded) than are easily acceflible to any »ne indivi.
dual even in Europe, «r are probably to be found
tn any one library ia the world. They are lur
nilhei with indexes, and a copious table of con
tents. J* n "-»»!»
Imported inthtfhipManchester,
BimjAMIN SheHtell, Mailer,
From BourdciuX) *nd for sale i>jr the fubferiber,
No. 11, Walnut St ect.
Bonrd«a»x Brandy 1
Irish market elar.t in cafeo / Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. J Drawback.
Santerne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatrsyd.
WHO HAS FOt SALI.
Sherry Wise in pip««and quart* «a&s
Rota do. do.
Pi*e«to in bags
4 000 bushels Liverpool lah.
"~A»g- »4- ttrt&stf
W. Haydon
Delineator of Draivrng—fram London,
(Whore he has studied fevernl years under on« 3 of
the rnoft eminent maftcre in emit fciooee)
INFORMS his friend*, that he has rc-cormnene
cd hia private tuitiwn.—-Terms, as usual, i»tx
Dollar* per month, for attendance ibree time* a
week. Like wife, ail kinds of Orn amertal Paint
tog, fruit, flowers, Ac. taught on the above terms.
W. H. flatters himfelf his terms will be particu
larly advantageous to those that ompioy him, at
ho makoi no additional charge if fthere are two
pupils in one family,
A line dir#>&ed to W. H. last at the ofiiee of this
Gszettt, will be immediately attended to.
January 9. §iw
To Be Sold,
A6HIEKA.BLY to the iaft will and tcftament of
William Hctmam, deceafcil, and pofTrf
fion gfven immediately, a valuable property i-Q Arch
street, between Third aad Fourth fL~aats, confin
ing of the houfc, No. 103* with ths lot on which
it is ereAed, a (labia, and other hnprovetnant*.—
The house is 10 feet front, and contains ten good
aparbmenta. The lot is of the fame breadth as the
house and *O9 feet deep, with a well#f w;rtcr and
a verV capacious walled ctftera, borh with pumps
in goep repair. The liable stands on the re«r of
the lot and will accommodate four horses and a car
riage. This property enjoys the parpetual privilege
of a x6feet e«urc aa<l an alley, t feet wid*,trxtatia
ing to Cherry Street. Its central position and the
advantages it peffeffre with rafpeA to free ventila
tion, rendors it wJI worthv the attention of any
person wifeing to poflclb an eHgible property m Phi
ladelphia,
For further enquire at No 88, Vine
Street—of
Robert Hby«ham, }
or >A<fting Efceeutora.
FRAHTis Bgwks j
January 11 §
The Subscriber
INPORMS thofa whom it may interest or con
cern, t-hac the Judges ps the Court of Common
Pleas have appointed A<Tjrtlay, tbt tioenty-Jixtb day of
February ntxi, t«* hear him and his Gredittfra* at tke
Court-houfo In this city, oa the of his peti
tion for the benefit of thf Infolveat Law—aad
that their attendauae i« doffred.
JAMES GREENLEA-F.
Philadelphia, Jan. 16. eot26thF
The Subscriber intends t© make
application for the renewal of a Certificate of a Share
in the Bank of the United in the name
of A. B. No. **>o4, dated July 11, 17971 the fame
having'-been lon. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. I• t6w
The Subscriber,
Informs those to wh*>m he is indebted, that his
books, which have Keen kept open for their inspec
tion since December 1796 are balanced to the 31ft
ult. and will during the prefont month remain
open at hie Counting-houfc in Chefnnt Street for
thair farther invaftigatioa und fcrut-ny.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
Jan. ffl 1798.
All P-erfons
Having any demands a*a : nlt the Estate of the
late Captain George Irwin, are rcqiuftcd to
bring in their accounts pioperly attested, on »r
before the firft day «f January nut ensuing
and those who are indebted to said estate are so
licited to make immediate payment to
SARAH IRWIN, Aufniniftrajrix.
net). 29 1f97- $
NOTICE. ~
ALL perfanj who have any demands against
the estate of Willam Flsevttoo©, of
Liverpo.l, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceafsd, are r.quefted to exhibit their accounts,
properly attested ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired te make immediate
payment, te
GEO. DOBSON, ) .. . ,
No. ig, So. Third-flreet. \ ' mn 'J r r
January 4. dtf
Surveyor General's Office,
December 2, i? 97«
ON a release of fufvey of 433 acres,6B perches
of land, fnuate in lower Smithfield townfkip
Northampton county, surveyed to William Wills,
per warrant of 2d March, 1786, the Deputy Sar
veyorhath made the following aote, viz,
This land claimed by heirs as Lewis Gordon and
George Taylor, not known by what right.—Cer
tified f«r Daniel Broadhead, Eiq. Surveyor Gene
ral—William Farker.
The firft Monday in March next is appointed for 1
a hearing of the parties on th<« above caveat, or any
others interested or concernod therein, they having
at leafl thirty days notice for Joha Hall, Secretary
of the Land Office.
N. Lufborough.
January 26 §tiFiwtm
Copper for Sheathing,
Fmr Sale, ly
SIMON WALKER,
P'me-Jlreet, near Fifth.
Jansary 29 -■ , diw
Genteel Boarding and Lodging
JTobe ha<l at a moderate price—inquire a
No. 138, Areh-ftreet.
Jan, 27. dnw
To be fold,
AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SKAT, cotain
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
&ory brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. situate on the Irifli trad laae, in the
township of Moyamotifing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Oazette.
The improvements upon thit place,for talle and
elegance, stand unrivalled.
December 1. dtf
PROPOSAL.
HAVING met with a liberal patronage, the
Subscriber i« emboldened to ilTue proposals
for printing by fubfeription, the JOURNALS OF
CONGRF.SS, from their firft meeting ia 1775,t«
the present time.
This work fliall be printed with a new type,
made for the purp.fe; and *n good paper. It
will he delivered at oil*-dollar per volume (octa
vo) in 6 v.ls.—*ifli to i e paid on delivery.
It it De.dl.fs to fay aiijr thing of the merits of
this undertaking—the fearcity of the Journals
throughout the United States, is fnfficicnt to jstti
(j the printer in his h.pe of meeting with that
fueccfs, which he is certain thi enterprize defervej.
JOHN PARKER.
Jan. 27. ' d 6t
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Priine Rice in <wh<tlc mnei oalf tiercel
Boutdtaux Brand}
Tent rifle Wine
Mtlajfrs
Georgia end Carolina Trrrfigt
Ravens Duck and one kogjbead of paint
brufijes.
N. (s* J. Fraztr.
A s JJ, kpith Front Street.
Nov. ?< dim.
TROPOSAL S,
FOn PRINTING Br Sl/MSCSIPTION,
A NEW AND INTERESTING W9KK, tUTiTLEB,
A TREATISE
ON THE POLICE OF LONDON,
Containing a detail of the various crimes and aiif
demeanor*, by which public and private proper
ty, are, at prefciit, injured a*d endangered :
And fnggefiring remedies for tkeir prevention.
IT A MAGISTRATE,
A&ing for the counties of Middlesex, Surry, ICent,
aud Kflex ; for the city and liberty of Wcftmitt
#*r ; aud for the liberty of the Tower of Lon
don.
To thafc i»be have read this ft/* ions and -.tain able work,
ft •will tie**/ no reeomtrmdation-~-thry know its solid merit
fu it has hitherto got into very fero bumfs in this
oauntry, it •will not hi av:ifs to objerve—fo great iu.it the
approbation and demand in T.snJen> that it paffd through
three large editions in the course of twelve months. As a
detail of the ingenious var'uiies of fraud, tb.it endanger
property in I.ondon, and mojt o'.ber oxvn and opulent
dtie,, it cannot fail to afford tire rentier greml entertaining.rt
as iveii at infrufiion ; but as the author traees all tbafe
enormities to afe*w, and in toemfelves, ineonfiderable caus
es t many of lobtcb actually eteiji in all the large eapitais of
the United States, the business is brought borne to our oivn
dear's ; and the work has an increafng claim to our atten
tive perusal.
To njjyt the Ugijlator and the magifrate in tie humane
*s<* °f preventing orimcs, and their confequeat punijb
ments, tvas the patriotic dejign of the author. " Private
offences, be fays, are the fouree of public crimes, and the
best method of guarding foeietj agan.fi the latter is, to male
proper provisions, for checking the former '*-—>• *fhtfe men
are easily feducedfrom their loya'iy who are apoflatesfrom
virtue."
CONDITIONS.
THSswork will be printed in a large o&avo, on
an excellent Englifli paper—lt will be delivered to
fobferibcrs, bound in boards, at the moderate priee
of One Dollar and a baif; although the lafl London
edition, oa inferior paper and meanly bound, n
now fold at *wo dollars and a half. To non-fufe
feribers the priee will be raised.
Whatever encouragement may be given by fnb
fcription, it will be committed to she pfrefs without
delay ; aqd, barrinj accidents, will be roady for
publication early in April.
£s* Siabferiptions will be thankfully received at
Benjamin DaviebVs book-Hoie, No 68, High
ftreet, and by molt of the other booksellers in the
city ; by George Hill, in Baltimore; and by Sam
uel Campbell, and A. Drummond, in New-York.
January 31. aawtA
fcROSS & BIMSQPJ,
HAVE FOR SALS,
A few bales Baftas, CyfTas, and
a quintityr of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jainaiba, -)
St. Vincents, C RUM.
Mid Brngai j
300 calks RfCE, tnd
A parcel of Ihip building RED CEDAR.
Oft '(
To b« Exchanged for
German, *r India Genii,
IN THE PACKAGE ;
A trad of valuable Land
la Lycoming, joining that of the Holland co.
and containing 10,000 Acres.
Inquire of the Printer.
,T»n n. $
NOT I C £
To holders of J !MES GREEN LEAF'S
and EDWARD FOX'S Engagements a
IN consequence of many luring been prevent
ed, from Late unavoidable circumstances fnom
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. The Trußees now inform them, they
are ready to ifliie the faiae to those who may ap
ply within Gxtyday«, at No. 8 Chefout Street,
and those who <io not, will be confidercd as re
linquilhing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provtdsd for rtieir payment.
HENRY PRATT,
THC MAS W. FRANCIS,
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLET,
JACOB BAKER.
D«c«mW is- dtct
FOR SALE, at
Wm. Young's Biok Store,
No. Seeand street, the earner of Chcihat
REPORT of the Committee of the House of
Repr.fentatives of the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
against WILLIAM BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeached of high crimes and mis
demeanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of
the Houft of Representatives, authorizing the said
Committee to fit daring the recess of Congress, aad
inftrufiing them " to enquire, and, by all lawful
" means, to difcovcr the whole nature and extent
" of the offence whereof the said William Blount
" stands impeached, and who are th« parties and
" affociatestherein."
Printed by order of the House of Representatives
Decamber 20. §
French Circulating Library.
JOiEPH E. Q . M. De La GRANGE,
No. us Walnut-street,
INFORMS those who wife to recur to the anly
means of becoming perfect in the French Lan
guage, that he has just opened his Lib*a*t, con
fining of upwards of 1500 volumes, the best cal
culated to afford either ufcful inftrudion, or plea
sure. The eo»ditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may be seen at every boot-feller's
in town.
n. ». All translations from and into the French,
English and Spaaifh Languages, executed with ae
curac) and dispatch. eoim nov.
Samuel Pleafants Sff Sons,
No. 74, South Second-flreet,
HAVE received a supply of Seasonable GOODS,
which they are now opening for sale, on
r'-afonahle term*. OA 17.
This Day is Pubiifhed, ~
BY Mess. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rie and the
other BookfeJiert, «•'
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents, '
Elegantly printed on Wu-oc paper, and Hit.
prejed.
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of th» several States with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of caeh Constitution, and
classing together their most important provilions,
under the fevaral heads of administration ; with
Notes and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congress of the
United States.
Dedicated to th. People of th* United States.
N. B. A few Copies printed 00 an inferior pa
per, at 3-4thsof a dollar.
A Gardener wanted.
A person well acquainted wills gardening, and
who would •cctfionally attend market, may
hear of a place ky applying at the 11 mile stone,
on the Briitol road, or No. loy, Arch-ftree:
Philadelphia. A single man would be preferedc
Jan. »o, aawtf
James C. Samuel W. Fisher.
AT THEIR STORE,
N0.5i3, corner of Arch and Front ftreot.
BATE FOR SALE,
Cotton and worfled Hosiery in tru»k«, afTored""
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannel
Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Pnllicatfilk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafe ditto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taffstici
4000 pieces Nankeens, and
Few chests best Hyson Tea
Alfo —1500 boxts he ft London Window Glass,
from Sby 6, 'to 19 bv —and hhds. Glass
Ware assor ted, which thiry will difpofc of cheaper
than any in the city.
Nov 18 3tawtf
Imported (via blew York) on the
ihip Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for
fait* by the fubferiber, at N<*. 6x, ChafßUt street,
between Second and Third Streets, the follow
ing articles .
Maharagonges Charconna Dorms
Chintz and Oahcoes Dacca worked niufiins
Gillis Romah Bundannoes
Nillas & Penfiafocs ChaHa ELomals
Blue cloth Hair ribbon
Mull Muirhatikerchiefs Palemporo#
Patna clo. baiures Opi«.n
Lefler Cardimum Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox.
November 17 tuth«4w
Valuable Books,
Just received by the Fai* American from
London, and now opening and feKing by
J. Ormrod, No. 41, Cbcfnut Street.
CATALOGUES
Of the newly imported books maybe had gra
tia. Theft addtd to O's ufnal flock, form an
extensive aud elegant colleaioi of ancient aud
modern literature, and coraprife books in sun
dry lasguagee ami on vviou« fubjedls.
This Day is PMled,
By J. Ormrod, (Price 75 cents, handsomely
bonnd and lettered, and embelliJhcd with au
elegant frantifpiece aud seventy three euts.)
The Looking Glass for tlic Mind,
o *,
Thfe Juvenile Fribnd ;
Being a valuable colleiflion of int«rcfting and
miscellaneous incidents, calculated to exhibit to
young naiads the happy effects of youthful in
nocence and filial afftAion—ln prose arwl verie.
Designed to improve and amuse the rising gene
ration.
bt the Press, and will be foeedily publifbed,
Dr. DARWIN'S
Plan of Female Education.
* Ssbfcriptions for this incomparable work will
be thankfully received by the printer. The book
will contain about three hundred pages, will be
printed with a new type on fine paper, and de
livered to fubferibers neatly bound, lettered and
embelliihed with an elegant frontifpiece, for one
dollar.
January j. 3t .
FOR Sale, Br *
William Priestman,
i»9, Sooth Front-street. next door to the Q«f
tom-fcoufe,
A large ajjbrtment vf
Gold and silver Watches
A Time Keeper, by Arnold
Some plated Candlesticks
Double barrelled Guns, by Mortimer, mirker
to the King of England
Ditto, by Parker
Pair duelling Pistols, by Knubiey, Charing
Cross
RefleAiag Telescope, by Ribright
Box of patent Medicines
60 lb. Scotch Thread
Small colleflion of valuable Books, and
Bocks of Prints
30,000 acres of in one lot, upon the
Big Sandy, in Mason county, Kentucky, pa
tented by Percival Butler, in 1787.
Also, 14 Lake Erie Lots
Invoices or parcels cf Watthes bought.
January 4. d?t
School Books and Stationary;
W. YOU NG,
No. ft, Seeond-flreet, cornr.r of Chefnut-ftrey,
HAS now ready for sale, a very large alTort
ment of Eng/Jb, Preach, Latin and Greek
SCHOOL BOOKS. Atfe, such elementary books
on Science, as are generally read in the academies
and college* throughout the United States.
lately published,
Sheridan's Di&ionary, the sixth edition, in one 1
large vol. 8 vo price j dols. 1
Ditto, large 11 mo price 1 dol 75 e»«.
Ditto, common, price 1 dol. 50 cts.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paptr ; Bookbinder's Boards, Pattehoards, 1
fheathiag and blotting Papers; printed Blanks, '
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, of
the best quality, used in the counting hotfe, or
public office.
£?" Catalogues of a miscellaneous collection of
BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had ;
by inquiring as above. OS. 14 3aw6w
Yellow Fever and Pestilential
Diseases. ,
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, in oae vol. oAavo.
By William Youno, BookfeUer, '
No. JI, Second street, the corner of Chefnut street,
(Price, in boards, 871 a Gents) *
Neatly printed on fine American wore medium
Paper,
A VIEW |
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles eflabliflied in the elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrattd
JOHN BROWN, M. D.
With an attempt to corredl some important er- ■
rors of that work, and cases in illustration, chief
ly feletfted from the records of their practice, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br Willijm Tatst & Chas. Mkclean. t
To which is subjoined, a Treatise 0 n the a<Sion Ii
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion for the cure of diseases of indirect debility.
Andadiflertation onthe sources of Epidemicand,
Pestilential diseases; inwhichisattemptedtoprove
by a numerous induflion of fails," that they ne
ver arise from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certai* states, or certain vicifiitudes of
the atmosphere, by Charles Maclban, of
Calcutta.
nov - »'• flit
Wanted, to Hire, d
A Large and convenient MOUSE, in or near b
the centre of tht city—for which a generous ft
rent will be given; to be uken for a year, or on -
more for a longer term. Inquire of the Printer
° ft - cots /
Tfn Plates,
for jale iy 1
SIMON WALKER,
PiDe, near Fifth street.
December iS. , ,
For Savannah,
f'""" ' Thefqfl failing S hip
SWIFT PACKET,
frvSpße N re f allr tr^der)
Patrick Gri bben, nfijlery
WILL lail he the loth ilift
(ice permitting) his handft>me accommodations
for paflettgers. For freight or pafflgc apply to
the master on borrd, at Bickley'a wharf; above
Market-ilreet, or
N. J. Frazier,
No. 95, South Front-ftriet.
FeV.ruarv j. |
For Amlterdam,
The Ship
farmer,
John M'Coliom, Master ;
WILL fail :n a few days, the
of j,erc«rgo' being
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or
paflage, apply to the mafle'r on board, at Wal
i.ut-flreet Wharf, or to
JOMN SAVAGE.
Who is landing, out of the said Ship, frofl!
Bourdeaux, and for sale,'
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quartercalks
Claret in cases, of a foperior qualify
Fontiuiae,
Santerne, £ Wines in cases
Lunjlle, J
Prunes in boxes
Novembe 24.
! tor Sale or Charter,
J good hope
Wi " carr >' ab ? ut IJ °o barrels, and
ready to take in a cargo. For terms
apply to
Pragers fe 5 Co.
No. 151, South Second-street.
Who hav. for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar
and Rum, Madera, Lisbon, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7.
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Captain Ghisholm,
ntw ve^e '> with excellent
,1£^ sfe * & ™=»*'»aeoa3moda! ions for pa(Tene«»s ;
Sails on the 10th Deaembtr. For Freight or
Paflage, apply to ROSS & SIMSON.
Who has to tlifpofe of,
A finall invoice of GLAUI4ER SALTS
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
Navember 18.
" FOR S ALE,
By JOHN MILLER, jun. & Co.
No. 8, Chclnut-ftrcet,
One hundred and eighty bales
BENGAL GOODS,
Araongft which ara, t *•
Gurrahs Mamoodies
Baffal Sanna«
Gubzc nalu Tanda Celiacs
Gi>z*irs Emertics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palampoocs Roroall Handkei chief*
Amongst tbam are a great proportion of ihe
majjufa&ures of P-atsa.
December i.
ini'urance Office of the State of
Pennsylvania.
February 1, 1798.
THE Dire&ors have this day declared a dividend
of leventy dollars on uft share of the Dock oi the
company, for the lall fix months, which will be
paid to the Stockholders or their legal reprefaita
tiresafter the 10th inft.
JAMES S. COX, Prejldent.
FAruar y ■- dl Jt
Landing this day,
From on board the schooner Two Frieads, Dan
iel Crawley, Master,
«St and I Jamaica RUM,
FOR SALE BY
George Latimer £3° Son.
Boventber 9. f
60 Dollars Reward.
RAN AWAY from the £jil>Xcriber, on the 24th
•f December, 1797, a N.g ro Man, about 22
years old, by the name of Cato.he is about 5 {est
7or 8 inches high, midling well proportioned; he
has a very coarse voice, his fore teeth stand very
far apart; there were one or two with him—l
cannot rightly describe the doaths he took with
him, for he took two or three suits ; he had on
when he went away, a pair of kerfoy trowfers, a
half worn drab coloured coat, a half worn wool
hat ; he took with him four very good ihirts—-1
txpc& he has made for Philadelphia or the Jerseys.
Whofoerer takes up said negro and fecureshim, sb
that the owoer may get him again, fliall have the
above reward, paid by me, JOHN MOORE,
Living in St ill Pond, Kent county, Maryland.
January 1. *6t2aw
Chocolate and Muftard^
of a superior quality manufadliired,
GINGER and Pepper, ground ; fiielled or
pearl Barley ; Philadelphia Porter, Betr,
Ale and Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Ale ;
London Porter j red, Port and Lilbon Wine,
tollable for exportation or home contoinption.
The highefl price given for Mustard-Seed.
Alfa for sale, A quantity of Bocking and
common Baizes, a varietv of colors; a bale of
i Fuitians, Shawls, &c, for'fale by
JOHN HA WORTH,
No. 98, south From-ftreet
*°V. *7- m.&tk.t.iJ..V
Samuel & Miers Fisher,
ARE NOW OFEBINU,
At their Warehouse, No. 27, Dock Str««t, a freft
auortment of Woolen and other goods, fnitablc to
thefeafon, neccived by the late arrival: from Enr*
land. 5
Tity btve mlfo f*r Sail,
I-ifboa
TeaeriiFe / .
Sherry, and ( n P'Pt'.hnds. and quarter caflu;
Port Wines, J
AlTorted queen's ware in cra;e«, icc.
loth mo- 23d. diwjtawjw.
Employment for the Poor.
FLAX ton SPINNING,
To be given out every second, fourth, and sixth
day moraing, between the hour« of 10 and n
back of no. 51, south Fifth ftriet, ahove Sprues
ftrett - eodaw
Jujl Publiflted,
And to be had of Meflrs. DoWon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Booksellers in
city .price one dollar, twinty-five cents,in boards.
New Views of the Origin of the
1 ribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN sMITH BARTON, m. ».
June to.