Gnttttt States, Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Numbs# 1732..J
Freight Wanted.
' FOR J}IFM*N,
The Hamlurgb Brig
H F. N R I E T T A,
Peter P. Schmidt, Maflcr,
0 W lying at Jcffe and R Wain's wharf— \
fiout, ftronp ve.Tel of al-out 270 tons bur
then, in good ord r ; Kn rwo thirds of her cargo
ready to go or board, and begins to load to-mo? row.
For Freight apply ro
PRATT &r KINTZING,
Mo qs, North '»Vat r-ftieet.
Who have JUST RF.CEIVR1 >, and FOx SALE,
4.1 bales Ticklt burgs and Oznabrigs
ft do. Parterbornes
1 d$ bleached Wefifiant
t package OiV Cloth
I heft s»nd 8 barrels Snuff Boxes
JQ l iquor Cases
39 anchor* peyl Baryle, *>nd
4 t irg.'.nt Carriage Harness, Whips,
Spursj &c.
THEY HAVE fOE SALE
Cfcrct In cafe«. Port ine in pipes, Russia Soap
ia Rice, Tumblers, Win
dow (i hfs Slates, a of excellent Mahoga
ny, Heflians. Brown Rolls, Polifti Li- ens, e" pty
iJpffee Bag*, &c &c. all entitled to the drawback.
m rfh 20 tuths\w
For NEW-YORK,
Skip
S A R A H,
Captain Cooper.
FH!-!GHr will be take:' on very low terms, if
•ffered immediately.
JOHN VAUGHAN.
mirch 17. g
For NEW-YORK,
The finenew, fll faiii; g Sloop
CONCORD,
f Stephen Cahoone, majler ;
flrlVltL take iruight on very
tnoderatto terms; for which, or palTage (hiving;
elegant accommodations) apply to the mailer on
board, at Clifford's wharf.
march 16. *it
For Sale,
Jglgb HARRIOT,
NOW Iyifrp-at RufT'Ps Wars
Burthen t-Viv-—three years ol»i, built of the best
materials and is well found—would ansWer well
fbr a coaster, as fbe has excellent accommodations.
For terms apply to
Gurney & Smith.
march -3 §
For Boston,
COMMERCE,
Richard Waistcoat, Majler.
1 0 a ,ew
Any freight that may offer,
•will be taken on very moderate terms , for which,
or paffago, apply to the Captain, or to
Ifrac Harvey, jun,
5, South Witer- raet
march la. §-w
FOR SALE,
ttKjk THE BRIG
Weft Ind an,
Philadelphia built, live oak and !
cedar, i$ coppered, (heathed and bolted, 3 years »
oki. fails remarkably well, carries 15 a 1600 har
rels'—now lying at wharf, ready to
load W.TER BLIGHT,
match 6. §iw
For Hamburgh,
THE SHIP
Dominick Terry,
John Fleming, Majler, j
y < Having tfreat partpf her cargo en- i
gag«d.—For freight apply to
JeJfe Robert (Vain.
February a 6
Nicklin iff Griffith,
At their Store on Waln»t Street Wharf—
HAVE FOR SALfc, 1
hhd». of Janiaiea Rum
Madeira Wine in pipes andhhds.
Teoerifle do. m pipes 1
OW Pbrt do. in hhis. 1
Imperial Tea iri quarterj and elghtht «f cheftj 1
Sail Canvass, No. I, to 8 '
Dimities, Ginghams, and Muflinets, in packa*
ges suitable fer the Weft-India market
Nails afTorted
Black quart bottles
Queens ware in hhds. and crates
Yellow ochre dry in calks ; ,
And at Ncw-York, on board the J
(hip Diana, from Liverpool, expeiled round t
as ionn is the navigation is
Eme Liverpool Salt
Coals i
SpjniOi Brown "]
Venetian Red
Purple Brown ! p Amxs
Patent White f
White Lead
■Red Lead J
Colcr>th»r vitriol
160 bundles SheJthing paper
Seaming Twine
Ship Diana, c
For Sale or Chatter.
ALSO, j|
BrigAMAXON.
N. late firm of Philip Nicklin & Co.
it now chaoge I to
NICKLIN Of GRIFFITH. f
January i. eodtf
For Sale or Charter,
7be SrtOTU j
good hope
life, Will carry about iioo barrels, and
JM&z: ITj isready totake in a cargo. For terms
apply ;«
Pragers Co. .<
No. iji, South Second-street. "
Whl havif'V sale —prime St. Croix Sujnr "
,„d K n, Madera, Li/bon, and Tcnerifie wino. P
Nov snber 7. dtf
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, MARCH 29, 1798
This Day will be Landed,
At Morrf's whajf, just ai>ove the Drawbridge
torn Oil hoard the brijj Eliza, capt. Vaughan,
from Malaya— \
Frefli Fruits, Wine and Brandy
( Lemons in che uand half chests
Raiflnsof tht Sun in keg*
ir FiiX" in do *
r 0 Soft fheil'd Almonds in sack«
v Grapes and Olives in jirs
Bloom and VJufcatel Hailins in boxes
Anchovies in kegs •
Jor '. in and tt.-r Almonds in boxes
p Old Mountain in qr. cuflcs
Brandy in l>utts, &.c. See.
For Sale by <
PETER KUHN.
p. s. —-
' The abovtßrig forfale
immediately applied tor ; lhe
. 3 remarkable fine faft failing
s > v. ffel, having made her pafiagc
to an ! f; om Malaga in little more than 60 days
ma ch ■'*(■> 1 0 t
tp
i- t or oaie or < barter.
7 SHIP
-] mm s p r >
j W&wi'JASiEisSsVeathed with heft patent Copper,
having been a P.ictce of the K»gliß>Eaft-India Con
I pany—Vovvput i:i compleat order Sh'! i 1 2* 6
ten-, ami c p jble of carrying 16 guns, now laying
at Mr Rois's wharf—For terms apply to
if Stephen Kingston,
46 Walnut Stret.
WJtO HAS FOR SA-E,
A cjrgQ of Salt, a quantity of Sail Canvass and
Gin in pipes
march to . , V
P CO P P E R.
: 4,000 lbs. of Sheathing Copper,
y and a small affortm nt of flroog Copper, in Iheets
Z aq*l bottom*, suitable for stills, brewing- and other
n pans from iqo to ga-lons tog-ther with an
aflortm«'Bt of Copper c-jnfifting-of Stills
from 3P to 3 Q gallons, Hatter's plank and dye
K ttles, wafliing do. of c< pper and brSfs, Fish
Kettle*, sea do. Scewpans, Saucepans, copper Ca
bin Stoves, copper Pumps and Binnacle Lamps,
and a van ty of other article?— For Sale by
JAMES M'C AULEV,
t his„opper warehouk, No 89. South Front
* street march 16—*U
' N. B. Or hand, a fecopd hand Sugur Pan and
* Dye C pper that will contain about 300 gallons,
an«l wiil be fold chca*.
A Bargain.
A quantity of Window Glass
FOR 4ALE, of iliffcient fia«s, at a very large
from the fterfog cod. If thi=> Glass is
not oifpofed of hrf re th- sth o 1 April, it will be
(hipped from 'his port
For term I .appiy to So. 89, South ! hird-llreel
march 26. §iw
A PERSON who has hard ii-j
beral education, and isma.'tcr of the French
and hnglifk languages, w'ould engage as a tutor
in a gcnrcel family where therf (hould be one or
two boys, provided it is not it) this city. Ha
would hiva no objection to travelling- and is ca
pable of unlefakirg the /upcrintendance of a
farm. A note dire&ed to Z. at this office will
be attended to.
N. B. Wagps is r.o ofcjerft,—genteel and friendly
I treatment is lie only ihi g looke i for.
: nwch z6. *
THE PARTNERSHIP OF
WELLS Sis MORRiS,
HAVING expired on the nth February last,
all per lon* having demands against the said
Partnerfhjp, are requefled to fvrnith heir accounts
for ftttlemenr ;an ' those indebted to the fan:e, to
make imijjediat payment-to the fu f r-K-r
GIDEON H. WELLS.
N. B Fhe buliiieis will be carried en as horeto
* Lre, by fybferiber, at his Si ore, No. 135, Mar
, ket ftrect. iw march 14.
notice: —
THREE Certificates t f Six Per Cent. Deferred '
Dpb'tof the United Stages ol the following |
description.
for 5000 dojlarsaach, dattd Bth May, 1797, and '
on the books of the Treasury of the Uni- j
ted States, in the name of Benjarpin Waddington,
of Lanover Hbufe, ntar bergavenney in England, 1 (
Esq. have been loft by the capture oi the fbipiiac- j
chus, from hence to London, in June latf.— Fhis
ther fore notifies those whom it may concerfi, that «
apf lication will be mad at the I'reafury of the U
nited States for a renewal of the fame
Waddington 1$ Harwood.
march 7% ,6w (
Twenty Dc4lars Reward.
THE Store occupied on account of the United ,
Stares, back of No. 71, North Water-flreer [
was on thenfghtof the 19 h instant (March) bro- (
ken open, and the foJlcwing articles flolen, and J
taken therefrom :
Nine pieces Stroud, vi?.
ll]t Blue ftropd finglc
•" * cord.
2379 20
2380 20 \ • ,
2jß t 20 \
2 282 20 I. T J 1
D o , ■ 1 wo cord.
2383 30i
2384 20 t
2385 20 i J (
ahove reward is offered, for the difcovrry f
cf the perpetrators of this robbery, so tlrat they €
be apprehended, and made amenable to justice ; }
further reward will be paid, for the recovery of r
any part of the goods stolen, on delivery of tke i
fame to j,
JOHN HARRIS, r
Keeper Military Store*. h
b arch at. iw i
FOR SALE, at
Wm. Young's Book Store,
No. .*», Second fireet, the corner of Chcfnut flrert.
REPORT . of the Committee of the House of
Repr«fentative«olt r United Stitej, appoint
ed to prepjre and report -.rticlen of Impcschment
ag»intl BLOUNT, a Senator rf the
lll]ited States, impeschcd of high cri«ae« and niif- 1
defiieanori, made in r-urfuance of a resolution of j
the Houf«of Rcprcfentatjvcs, uitlioricinjr the said g
Committee to Ac during the recdi ol Congress, and ft
I then) '« ta enquire, and, ( y ail iawfirf ci
" means, ro difcovcr the whole raturo and ext nt £
" of the offencr w hereof the laid William Blouat c
•• (lands impeache., and who are the parties inrl u
" alfociates therein "
Print id by order cf the H't/Jf of Reprtfcr.teti-vei *
December so. j #1
By John Fknno, N°- 119 Cbefnut Street.
j HE fubfcrjb?r, Co»nmiGmnero appointed by
« an ail of aflrembly o( thi.« Cmrtmonv-eafch,
y eriti-led "An ait to authorize tV- G-iverror of
'* this Common wealth to incorporate a company
•' ter eredlmg.a permanent bricigj ave the river
" Schuylkill, it or near the city of Philadelphia,"
hereby give iiotic , that Bouks i£e provided as the
1 w direifts; and that we -will proceed to receive
fubfcriptiocs for he Company Stock, on the ninth
day of April next, at the City Hall, in the city of
Philadelphia. I'te fubferiptions will be .received
from ten o'clock ia the morning till two o'clock,
P.M. of that day; and the books will continue
opea during til oft hours of lucceeding days, until
the number, required by the f'aid law to enable the
Commissioners to certify the fame to the Governor
for incorporating the stockholders, be fubferibed
e KICHARO PETERS,
e JOHN PEROT;
g GODFREY. H.l OA,
c . MATTHEW M'CONNEL,
WILLUM SHEAFF.
Philadelphia, iqth March, 171)8. 17—jawtf
y A House and Lot in Dover.
' FOR SALE,
\ IjO I OF GROUND, situate on the eafl fide
» of the main lircrt, rusning through the town
of Dover, in Kent csuuty, in the Stat- of TMa
» ware, about thirty or for y yards oelow Capt iin
, Furbee's Tavern, containing n -front on fcid tlreet
' thirty four feet, and extending in depth callwar J
S twelve perches together with ;he buildings there
cm erecjed, which confi } ol a good brick house,
two flories high, well finiffied, W'th two rooms a
bout fevenreen or eighteen feet square each, and a
passage eight or tep feet wide on tMe firrt floor ;
1 three roofns with a passage above, and good gar
rets, the c-llars are < xcellent, o ic of which is used
as a kitchef.; a back brick buildng with two rooms
above and Wow about te;i or twelve feet by four
teen ; .he tipper rooms of this builffitg eomtjifrii
j cate ,i'.ove stairs with the passage of the l.ou'fe
A britk fmok - house, * 4 a good pump of water:
in the yard, and a garden adjoining.
1 The House is in ev ry rcfpeift as comfortable as
s any in Dover, is in a s good fitujition,
and now occupied by John Freeman, a: 3 tavern,
j with the sign of the Eagle.
"I h. terms will be reafonabje. Apply to Dan
iel Mifflin, at Camden, near Dover, or to the tub
' fcriber, No 60, North Eighth (Iredt, P ilaVlphi*.
CADWALADER EVANS.
jnarch 27. tu'4w
NOTICE
IS hereby given, that the Seibfcriber, an insol
vent debtor, confined in the common goal of
, the County of Cape May in the state of New-
Jersey, bath presented his petition tn the Judges
of the Inferior Court of Common Pleas, in and
for the said county, pra\ing that they would
attend to hear what can be alledged for or a
; giinft his liberation, portuant to an a<3 of the
Legifhture of this State, entitled "an a3 for
th relief of insolvent debtors," pal Ted the 26th
day of Ja uaryi79B—And the the fa id court
d d appoint Monday the 26th day of March
: n-xt for the purpofif afofiffaid ; to meet at the
Court House in the Middle Pcecindl, at eleven
o'clock, in the forenoon of thefaid day, of which
his creditors are requested to take notice.
CHARLES ALLEN.
Cape May, Feb. 8, 1798.
Pe(). 14 —iawsw
N O T I C E.
WHEKEAS a Certificate to Hannah Shel
ly, of Oxtrd Cottage, in the Counry of
Surrey, in Great-Retain, Splnller, or her afiignt,
for two thousand five hundred and fixty-cwq do]-
lars twenty-three cent*, in the deferred flock, of
the United States, was loft iri the Ibip Peggy,
Capt. Hyer. bqusd from Philadelphia to London
I iR the year 1796. The fu .-fcrihpr, fhr Cyd Han
nah Shelly, in ten's to apply to the Treasury ol
the United States, lor a'renewal of the la.id Cer
tificate.
HANNAH SHELLY. !
Feb 11. XvV»6iV, '
Ran away from the fubltriber, 1
on the 14th inll. two indented Irifti .Servant Men : :
Thomas VVGuire, about 15 years of a«e and 5
feet 8 inches high, rohuU, flout, and well made.
Ihort black hair, remarkable for a frar on one o(
Ms temples ; he is a forward, deceitful, vicious, ,
and unprincipled fellow, and decoyed my
fen-ice Jeffry Corbet, about the hme age and
height, but of a milder disposition, and mbreflen- a
; der make, snort brown hair ; their working' appa- c
rrlwas blue cloth over jacket*, lined with coarse r
brown linen, check and brown linen fliim, er.y '
yam t'ockings, mixed twilled grey cloth trowfers, f
an j ruffett leather (hoes; they luvecthcrcloa-hing 1
which a.togerher gives them the appearance of sea- '
fyiing men, ; ut have been brought up to the larm- 1
ing bulinefe ; no doubt will have forged pafife# and
change their names and apparel as convenient, and
haye taken the poll road to Ph lapelp'.iia, I pur
chafed them thelaft fall of capt. Rollins, in Balti-
more. I will give Fifty Dollars for securing them a
so that I get them, ancj will pay all reasonable C
charges if brought home, or if separated, Thirty
Dollars for Thomas, and Twenty for I ffry.
ARTHUR J RYAN,
Head of Wye, Talbot County—March 7.
march 14. 2aw3w
Forgeries Committed.
WHEREAS Cevtral forgeries haye been com-
milted in this city by one or t.wo per tons r
kn iwn by the namp« of Dr. Grant, alias Smith, t(
alias Gilbert Grpnt generally wore a grconxojt,
fall in p«ifon, arvd gent'-el, had loft one or two
t eth in iroj t ; lodged, ab* ut July, at Mr. J
Grimes's taverr, at the George, in North Second
tfreut ; his friends, live New England ; suppos
ed to have committed ftveral forgeries in New-
York, andUfiid to hr. confined at thfe wlvel-bar
row at Baltim< re for dealing watches. The other
i* a fliort, thick man, by the name of Gilbert,-r
---known by Mr, Grimes and Mr. B'gnall, and feve
nl other perf <ns in this city. Information
by any pferfbn ps the above men, to Wm. Pkur
man. No. 15. South Fifth-ftreet, wil! be elUem
ed a favor. Gil'-crt is between 20 and 30
years old ; yellow, sickly k>ok.
m rch 17. *3aw3w
French Circulating Library. f;
JOSEPH F-. O. M. De La GRANGE,
No. lie Walnut-street, -
INFORMS ehofti who wiih to recur to the only I
means of becoming perfeA in the French Lan
guage* that helias just opened hi* Lisa Ait r, con
sisting of upwards of 1500 volume*, the bcfl cal- p
culated to afford either ufefulinftru el ion, or pleii
feire. The conditions, together a catalogue
of the Library, wfiif be feea at every book-feller's
in town. 01
w. b. All translations from and into the French,
English and Sp*ni(K Languages, execu:ea wirbac
furucy and dispatch. cojm nov.ifi.
Schuylkill permanent Bridge.
Valuable Stands for Business.
y J FOR $ALE—by the Subfcrilcr,
]'[ Tv/o Lots of Ground,
y Situate on the south fide ol Chrffl*it-.iVt*et J he
ir tween Second and Third ftrpcts : -o«f co<jtyfma
" eightr tn fee. the other fevenre n feet., nu»re,-or
a. lets, qu the /aid ttrcet, and both the
e fame breadth, one hundred an.4 more
h or less, to Carter's a)l: y,.
>f There nre, (3n Chefnut-flreet, two t^Q-fiory
BRICK MOUSES
(Numbers and 82)
Which may readily be matte into one ; and, 0:1
1 Carter's there is a convenient, well bu.it
c three A. ry
a Brick House and Kitchen,
Almol# new which ha- two on a floor
and a front of eighteen feet on said aTey .
I his pro ertv is lear of gr'»und-rtfut, and an
itidifputable title wiH be to the purchaser.
The three Houfrs wi:l be fold Separately or toge
ther.
Further particu'ars may hi known cn applica
tion to
ZACHARIAH POULSON, jun.
No. 80, Ch;faut-llrect, or a( the i' rary,
march 23. *• fißw
; Efcapcs.
t 'fie Prison of Cumberland coupty, in
j 13 New-Jersey and made iheir efcapt, be ween
j.and 2 o'clock, this mornin , two Men, who
, were of stealing-—one of them cilis .
. ft!f [ames the other Edward t^arnHjitpliu— ,
Leggis a headed Man. about <oyears ow, ?
fest 8 inches high thick fct, with a remarkable
. large head; Hamhleton is about 26 years old, 5
[ feet, 9 or io,inches hieh, black hair Left the
s prison in conrany the above described
. thieves, a fma.l man, who calls himfclf Matthew
Morrifon, about 24 y« ars old , 5 feet 6 inches high,
light hair fivir when ta king iw
. a wheelwright By trade vVho<*vcr will secure
j the thieves in any Gaol in New TVvfey or Pennfyl
; | vania, shall hi entitled to receive Ten Dolhrs for
} i the old one, Fifteen for the young one, and Twen
ty for Ma'thew Mornfop
GEORGE BURGIN, Sheriff.
• Bridgetown, march ff. 24 —r.it&ijw
I he Commiffioriv rs
FOR carryineinto sffedth' TWENTY FIKST
Article of the Treaty of Friendlhip, I.imits.and
Navigation, bitwe,n His Catholic Majesty and the"
United States of Am.rica, hereby give intormation
to all Persons therein concerned—t hat in order
to terminate all differences, on account of theloff
es fuftainedby the ciz. n» of the United States, in
! conlequence of their Vcffe s nd Cargoe-having
been mkenby the Su'-jefl's of His Ca-holic Majes
ty, during the late war between Spain and Franc •,
that they are ready to receive (at their Office, be
tween the hours of tea and one o'clock, daily) all
complaint, and applications authorized by the said
Article, during eioht een months, from the day
of the date hereot, and that they have power to
examine all such perfonsa« c»nic before them on
oath or affirmation, touching the com hints in
question, and also to receive in evidence, all writ
ten testimony, authenticated in such manner as
they (hall think proper to require or admit.
By Order of tbe Commijfu, en,
PETER LOHRA, Secretary.
Commijpehcri OJfut, Ac. log, Mulbcrry
frect, Ma\ 17/4, 179 7.
Feb. z&, '98 —' im
*, * T/'-yr Printers in the several States 11L0 ftuiiijb
ed the abo-ve advertifrmevi laji Sfiring, are reqvejled to
re-publijb it one month, and h d their to P. L,
To le Let,
A three brick House,
Wirh Stables, and a Garden containing 1 nearly one
acre of~ehnice ground, frveral Summer lioufes, ]
Piuit Tree?, on Race, and second fireet from \
'HchuylkUt; t^ic'whole in good condition, and the | I
situation high- «4fy, «nd excellent tor a place of *
puh)"|- entertainment'. ! i
An a?Jjoining l^qt, 40 feet front and no deep, j 1
is also to jet.
v For tersns apply to the fubferibpr, at No. 39,
Pine flfeet
Wr4. CURR3E.
iparth tl. wstf
THE Subscriber informs thofg
to whom he is indebted. th\t a petfon \\j 1
attend every iay, Sundays ixcej ted, until the ift
of April n-xt, fri:m the hot- s of io o'floik mth»
mnrning.till l o'plock in th» afternoon, at thehoofc
.formerly occupied by him i-.i Chi-fnnt ilreet, for 1
the putpole of fhewingall hooks, papers ami kt. ■ £
•ters tetiardina his pall comip rcial tiarfafiions-to
such of his craditors as may think proper to attend
and examine them.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
march r. fo ti A ' J '
At a Meeting of the President
and Managers ps the DELAWAR&and Scuy xlvull
Canal CoptrAXY, Febru ry 17th, 1798, "
Resolved, That ten dpljarsoj) each fh.re offituck
be railed for ; and that the Treafnrer
give public notice thereof agreeable
to law.
Extrnftfrotv the Mj/wtes. 1
OJORCSE WOR ) ALI , Surtlary.
AGREEAELf. to a rrftdut on o! th. Prefiritnt v
and Managers of the DeUrem'mdSchuytiill Canol Q
Company, the Stockhotders arc hereby reijurec' to f)
make a payment of ten dollars on each of their v
refp«(3iv« (hares on or before the tft ol pril next,
" WM. OOVETT, Treafvrer.
February zS. zawtA d
James C. Iff Mamuei VV. Fiiher, h
AT THE.R STORf.,
No.sij, corner of Arch and Front ttreet. .
HJfE FOR tAIE,
Cotton and worfled Hosiery in trnnk<,afforetT E
A few bales red, white, and yellew Flannel t |
Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs f,
Ditto Pullicat Jilk.ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madcafu ditto
Ditto Gtjrrahs '
Bengal black Taffeties * •
4?oo f icc»«Nankeen«, »pd
Few chelh beli Hyson Tea
Al/p— I<o3 box » heft. London Wjnjlcw G!rJ>,
from Rby 6, to 19 by 14 —and 15 hhdj. GUI,
Ware assorted, which they wiflJifo'ofc of chea-.tr
than any in the city.
_ X *' >v ' Jtawtf C
Red Clover Seed of thebcftquality" o
MADKIKA WIKF, ' k;|
Old, and fit for immediate use, in pipes, half A
pipe, and (Quarter casks.
Teneriffe Wine,
A:id, Win<Jow GUf—all of which will U fold
on very reafoi:»ble terms, hy
"John Craig,
No l», Dock Street. ni
■narcn » w&ft^
1 re.'.lury Department,
March ig, 1798.
NOTICE IS HEREfi t GIVEN,
I H 1 propoia. y.'iu,be rccvived a tile Ofticeafl
r i the Seti-fctaty of «he Treasury until the expi
'!■ r , lt1 "" ii't» day of Jtly neit enfiring, for
the supply ps rations w'ich may he rfqui *4
La t ' leul< ' ''''"United States, Iromthe firli day of
e
I 79£, both days mcltWive, *r the placet and within
the diU: iJI herrralrer mentioned, viz. At Ofwe-o ;
a» Niagara ; at Krifqce Isle s at MichiUftaekilrfc ;
at F.ivt Franklin ; at Pittsburgh ; it Le Keuf ; at
Cincinnati'; a* Greenville at Picque Town and
;t l.oramie's -tore; at Fort Wayne; at Fort Defi
i ancc ; at any place helow For D fiance cn the Mi
j ami River to Lake Erie ; at Fort ICnox and Oua
; eahon o the Rivr W'abafh; at XfalTac; at any
f j p.ac- or ptaccs op theeaft fide of the River iSjilul-
I fi W «hi moath of the River Ohio arid up.
" on the Illinois River ; a' any place or places on the
eat] tide the Miiyjippi River below the month
of the Si ivur Ohi 1 jj~ th fouthi-rn boundary of the
State < f Kentucky., and within the said >tat.' ; at
Itr.oxyillc, l ei ieo Block iiotife, and at aH oth.T
l'. lis in the St«e ol leMs-iiee; at xpy piase or
pbcfSOß theeoft fide ol tile River Milliflippi,. be
low the fourhern lonndaryot the Stati of t' ennef
lee, to th'. locrh'.-r;i brutldary of t';e United States,
t I fupp.tes fitaH be required ror any posts or
t plac. s rriit r>.ei,tioried in this notice,all sucH (opplies
n ihall he furniffydat price- prop rtionrd to tKoffc to
ii " le r oft ' belore rec'irtd, a- may "be agreed 011 bc
twert IJI United * laths' and the contratilor.
.' Ihe racior.s ■ o l.e supplied to consist of tJi- j sol
" ' lowir.tr ariLL. v,z.
? Oi>e pound of bread or flour
e One pouud of beet or twelve ounces of porlc
j or bacon
e Half a ji^ro- rum, brandy »r whif
1 ky, one 'quart of Salt t%oquaftfQ, F< * ,
, of vinegar, two pounds of soap, ( .' ,rsi *
one ; our«.l of candles J rations
„ ' He ration are to b furnifhed in such quantities,
. as th t ther fb?.ll at a,ll ines during, the find term,
. be fufficie. t(< r the conl .nip.ioii ot the troops at'
. MiehiHmackinac, Detroit Niagara, In 1 Ofivego,
. for the term of fix nio. tbs in a Vance, and at each'
of the other posts, for the term of a least three
mo th*. in advance, in good and wholefnme provi
finns, if the fame stall be required. It i t« he un
dcrftood, that the contraclor is to be at the ex
p nee ami riik 01 iilurrg th. fa j festo thctrocp*
at each prft, and that all lofles fiiltained by tlje de
pr;da ions of an enemy, or by means of tlio
troops qt the United States, (hall be paid for at
the price of the ankles captured or deftrnye , on
ep ifitioi 90l two ormore perfi ns 1 c edita
ble characters and the certificate ot a coi; niiflion,
ed olficer, ascertaining the circur..ftances of the
lofsand the am unt ot he articles for whiGh coin
penlation (hall be claimed. >
1 he priviledge is reserved to the United Statei
of requiring that none of ihe supplies which may
be furi ithed under the proposed contrail, (hall be
issued, uHtil the supplies which h or may be
furnithed the contract now-in have
been consumed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
Hire'- 17. _ 1 %l , |y
IMPOR iKD,
In the Brig Benjamin Fr a n k l i n, from
Bourdeaux,
AND FOR SALB »Y THE SUBSCRIBER,
Claret in cask*
V\hire wine in h. If casks
Sweet oil 0 a superior quality in boxes and baiketa
Lunelle *>
Sauterne /
Wacarty, and ( U iacs m Cafcß '
Medoc j
1 homas Murgatroyd,
No. 11, »v a nut Street*
WHO HAS ON HAND,
j Bourdeaux Brandy in pip s l„tit!ed
; i rjifh market ■) . ( to
j .'viedoc, and Satl'erne J i"e s in cases drawback
j wine in pipesand quarter caflcs
R]ota
Plmeilfo irt bags
"V« trunks of Umbrellas, and
AV6ut 4000 bufliels t lverpoolHalt.
rdl 1( ) mw&ftf
~ AT LAST. "
This Day i> Publifhcd, by'WlLLlAsj
CoBB^TT,
OPPOSITE CHKST HURCH, «•
7be Democratic Judge,
OR THE
ES>jJAL LIBERTT of the PRESS,
A 4 exhibited, explained and exp»fed, in the
profewitisn of
WILLI / M COJSBETT,
FOR A [RETENDID LIBH ACArNST
The King of Spain and his EmbaJfaJor, before
I HOVIAS WKRAN,
Chief. Jofiice of the -tite of Pennsylvania;
By Peter Porcupine.
Law hook Store,
No. 319, High-flreet.
George Davis,
TTMORCSSEb with the f »ors (hewn him in hi»
1 efforts to eflabfith a store for the sale of Law
■B<iok on'y, begs leave to inform the Gentleman
of the Err generally throughout the United States *
that in addition to his colteiaion now on hand'
v hi.h he supposes to be more exteufive, than in
the psff> fliori of any one prrfon forf.le in Amcri
ca, h cxpefls daily very large fupplie, from Lob
don & DuMm, particularly front thu latter place,
havingdrif fly ciinfinedhisirrportations tothofecdil
tions, a< his opinion equally correal with
the London copies, and wellinown' to be infinite
- 15" lower charged.
G.D. limiting himfelf, solely to the sale of Law
libolt., it will appear obvi>.HMo profeffi mal «en
tlemen the (ireat ad vantages they havein purchafine
from him, beth as to fele&ion and price, of which
the encouragement l-e has received for fereril veira
P»l', is the best tcttiniony he can ofler.
3 aw^yr
Piifoil Manufactory.
FOR S.ILK,
At the Prison of the City and County of PhiiaJ«l
phia,
Ciit Nails of ;11 sizes, from 3 Ay to aody
1 louring UraJs. Spriggs, faddie and card r.i;k»
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shnrmakeis and Sa«lh.rs I lircaJ
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier*# table*,
tomb and hea ; tloncs, hearths, chimney pieces
platforms, flahs, (acia, window heai., fill,. c / v
Ail wbich may be had on reafonible terms,
Shoea made and Weaving done at said Prison at
a modei&te price.
Orders fr./m .1 diilaiicc, to Daniel Tho.
mas, ag«nt for the psifou, will be attended to
Dcccm'j.a >4. " mth6o»
j"Volume Xlii.CONGRESS.
HOUSE* OF REPRESENTATIVES"
STATE OF THE UNION.
Tuesday, March 27.
The Houle having rcfolved i»l'elf into a com
mittee ofthe whole on the date of the Uni
bn, Mr. Dent m the chaft, and the fol
lowing resolution being under conliderati
on, v:z.
" Rcfolved, That it i« the opinion of this com
mittee, that, under rxifting circumstances, it it not
expedient for the United States to resort to war a
jainft the French republic."
Mr. Harper luppofed there would be an
unanimous vote on this resolution. He never
heard afentiment contrary to it. He was wil
ling to declare that it was not at present ex
pedient to go to war with any nation.
M'. Sitcr*avit said that, tor himlelf, he could
not agree to the propol. d rcfolwion * H- did r.ot
mean by thta disagreement to exprefa an op uion that,
at tbit moment, it wai expedient to go to war with
the Ffenert Republic ; but he though the formal de.
claiation ot ihe contrary fenimen; 10 he highly im
proper—the ptrferit i« a period ot menace and ot
danger of insult and of outrage} and whatever,
migni be the expedience of the aftual crifia, h r had
no h fitahon to avow hit belief that th t'tne is not
far dillant « hen wa* must a r minriD to, ox'
THI NATIONAL HONOR AND I»Tf»HT II A»»K-
Dt Ned* Thee udutit ot France wa< calculated to«
ex lie orio juftify no other expeftanon and under
such cifcumftarices, with fnch profpett'v, he could by
no mrara come; t 10 a formal declaration of non
IrlllTAKCl B.fides, 11 u •comrary to the usual
and ordinary course • f legifl live proceeding. to i-afs
mere negative resolution* Ibe power of dechrtn*
war ben g, bv the c ntluuuon, veiled in the COl.-
gref\ ; so ong as t'.e Congrefs'hall I rbea- to declare
war, it u an efficient exprcfUon of their fentimeni
that luch adechration would be imx; edieoi—lt is
the only proper expreffionof tuch a sentiment; and
itemino more be right to relolve tha we wi I no'.
rclori 10 war, than it would be to pafa an ait decla
ring that wc will not make a law tor the regulation of
barktuplcv or any othtr municipal corcern. How
ever dtlirab e theref re he admitted uiianimny to be
at a lime like the present, he found it impofuble to
ague to Ihe refo'.utiun,
Mr. B a Li) win did not agree with the gen
tleman lali ud j he thought the resolution
proper and free from exception. We werfe,
he f;iid, 23 years ago, when we were about
beginning the war with Great Britain, in a
fim.lar !:.uatioa to rhe present ; but we were
then without many advantages which we now
have. We were then without any common
' tie, except what arose from common interelt.
No means exilletl of holding conference toge
ther ; but nature pointed out courle to
be taken, and representatives' from different
parts of the country wersT'tiavelliiig at the
fame moment, to hold council together as to
what was proper to be done. He believed, in
the present trying situation, it was proper for
them to hold council together, and to (peak,
the.r lentiments. The gentleman jull fat
down apprehends war mult be the conle
quenie ot our present fituution.
Mr. B. fa d, this was the lirft time that the
qwefilon of declaring war had ever presented
itfelf, and upon which, he believed, there
might be a difference of opinion as to the ex
ercile of that power. He did not mean to fay
wautonry that our constitution is imperfeA—
but every society which has a written consti
tution, r.uift haverecourfe tait for direction.
It would be proper therefore to eryjuire what
agency the legislature ought to have in the
declaring t»i war; whether it is not preper
that all the circumstances relative to such a
state should be before them. He did not be
lieve it was intended that this House Ihouid
merely be the inflrument to give the found of
war; the JTttbjeci seemed to be put wholly in
to the hands ofthe legislature. This was the
uiiderftaiiding of the country, w hen there was
no government in existence, and he believed
this was the meaning of the constitution. The
coun'ry is now gtery where agitating this
question of peace or war ; and he traded they
would not be left to grope their way in the
dark on this important q.ieltion Ihe Presi
dent lia 1 informed the House that all hopes of
neguciationare' at an end. He was willing to
take the information as given, without going
i'nto the cabinet of the Executive, and to take
measures accordingly. But when some per
sons declare that the prelent state of things is
already a liate of war ; that the country is go
ing on in it; that th: die is call, and that we
have nothing to do but go on with it as well
as we can, if the House does not believe this
to be a true position, this resolution ought to
be agreed to, which went to fay that the House
does not consider the present a state of war,
but a state of peace. 1
Mr. Otis said, if the gentleman who made
the motion' would consent to use the conftitu
tional words on this occasion, he apprehended
there would be 110 dilt'erence of opinion : he
meant that infiead of faying " to resort to
war," to fay to declare war.
Mr. Sprigc (aid, the resolution which he
had rropoled had not been the work of a mo
ment, and he did not feel disposed to make
the alteration proposed.
Mr. Otis added, then he should move to
flrike out the words " resort to," and insert
declare, as he was of opin.on with the gentle
man froili Pennsylvania (Mr. Sitgreaves) that
the only fubjeds fit for dilcuflion wereattive
measures, and that it was not regular tg de
•clare when they would not do a thing.
Mr. PmcxNEir was desirous of fettling this
motion by the previous queftionj but he was
informed by the chairthat such a motion would
not be in order in a committee of the whole
Mr. Davton (the Speaker) said that he
hoped his friend would
withdraw the motion Ire had just ottered, 111
order to make room for one lie had to offer,
Vhich would render the firft resolution more
general, more innocent, and yet equally or
more efficacious, and would ted the sincerity
of the advocates of that resolution, as to their
profelfed anxiety fortlie maintenance of peace.
Upon Mr. Otis's withdrawing his motion,
Mr. Dayton moved to strike out the words
" against the French Republic," and declared
thai although he deemed the whole resoluti
on unnecellary, and conlidered it as not natu
rally growing'out of the Prelident's message,
which did not call upon us to declare or make
war, yet as it must be the intention of the
mover, or of fame other member, to follow
it up with like declarations in favour of all
other nations Vvith whom the United States
had any intercourse, provided they ailed con
fidently, he thought it better to make the re
solution a general one, even if Itfho.uld after
wards be negatived. He, forhiinfelf, was as
ready to fay that, under ending ctrcumftan-
was not expedient forthe United State*
to go to war with any other nation, as with
the Trench Republic. He saw no gjod rea
son why that particular power should b* An
gled out in the manner proposed ; and as he
was for cultivating peace not with one only,
but.with all the nations of the world, he was
wilbng so to declare his difpotition, if any de
claration was proper on the occasion. It was
also to be observed, that it could not with
propriety be objected against the amendment,
that there was no other nation with whom we
were in danger of entering into hostility, for
the tables of the Hoafe had betn loaded with
communications relative to the encroachments
and unieafonahle demands of another country,
which had occasioned an apprehension that
the United States would be driven to the ne
cejjity of a war, in order to obtain pdffeflion
of its own territofy. If, therefore, gentle
men were anxious to cultivate harmony with
the French only, then the resolution, as firft
moved, was proper for their adoption; but
if the preservation of peace with all wastheir
real objefi, then he truded that the amend
ment could not with propriety be rejected by
those very geritlemen w ho had introduced and
advocated a proposition, the utility of which,
under any modification, he owned for himfelf,
he could not difccrn, although he was willing
to render it as unexceptionable as pbflible be
fore it was decided upon.
Mr. Spring informed the gentleman from
New-Jersey, that the reafonwhythe French
Republic was inserted in the resolution was
because it was founded on the mefTage of the
President, which related solely to the French
Republic. For his part, he was not delifouS
of war with any power on earth.
Mr. Harper fetonded the motion of the
gentleman from New-Jersey, because he tho't
it would be better in that (nape. He had no
particular objeftion to the resolution as pro
posed, only that he thought it a resolution a
bout nothing; but as it rr|ight gratify the
mover and some others, he should not object
to it. He wis himfelf not disposed for war,
but for peace, wh.lft peace could be preserv
ed. But he never said, and would not fay;
that war was the word thing which could hap
pen so this country ; he thought fubmilfion
to the aggreflions of a foreign power infinitely
worse. If gentlemen meant, by agreeing to
this resolution, to prevent the country from
being put into a state of defence ; ifthey meant
by it to effect an entering wJdge to fubmifli
on, he trusted they wouid find themselves
juiftaken—for though he believed the true
imereft of the country lay in peace, yet he was
not disposed to recede from any measures
which he thought proper, for fear of war. Or
did gentlemen intend, by this question of
peace or war, to enlist the popular prejudices
ift favour of peace, in order to prevent proper
measures being taken for the defence of the
country! If this was their view, he should
be the firft to (trip off thedifguife. He trust
ed this was not the cafe, ds he saw it connect
ed with another resolution, which proposed
the taking of measures for the defence of the
country. The question at prelent, said Mr.
H. is not a question of war, but of defence—
and no two qiteftions are more distinct. If
gentlemen confound these two questions, and
'are determined to take no meaftiresof defence
left they fliould lead to war, let thein fay so.
He believed, however, the distinction was well
underltood by the American People.
Mr. Giles believed this the proper time
to declare whether the country should remain
in Peace or go to War. He thought the re
solution proper as it ftood_ because founded
on th» melTage of the President, in which the
French Republic is only named. There was
a part of that message, he said, which in his
opinion, ainounied to a declaration of~war.
The President tells the Houle, " that the si
tuation of things is materially changed since
he ifTued his order te prevent the ahning of
merchant vessels." As far as he underltood
rhe situation of the United States at that time,
it was a state of neutrality., if that date is
changed, and the present is not a date of neu
trality, he wilhed to know what it is ? He
knew only of t*o dates,-a date' of neutrali
ty and a date of war; he knew of no
mongrel date between them. Therefore,
if the President of the United States could
declare war, are now in war. Bel eving,
however, that Congress had alone the
power to declare war, he thought it time
10 declare what (he Hate of the nation is. He
did not know whether the object might not
be answered by the resolution being general,
as he was, and aKvays had been (notwithdand
ing infinnutions to the contrary) againd war
with any nation upon earth. He looked uu
/m it as the greated calamity which could be
lal any nation ; and whatever may be the
phantoms raised in perspective, of national
honour and glory in such a Itate, they will, in
the end, all prove fallacious. He believed no
nation ought to go to war, except when at
tacked ; and this kind of war, he should be
as ready to meet as any one. Mr. G. said
gentlemen were continually speaking of the
degraded state ofthe nation, when their oyn
measures had led to it. [Mr. Harper deni
ed that he had everfaid the nation was in a
degraded date.] Mr. G. was not sure that
he had said it, but he believed he had fre
quently heard it. He believed we were in a
date which required the utmost vigour ; but
lie thought every measure should be avoided
which might involvte the country in war. For
if we were to go to war with the French at
urefent, he knew not what event could take
place which could produce peace ; it mud be
a war of extermination. Mr. G. did not
know that the present question was very im
portant ; but believing it dnctlyconformable
■ o the message of the President, he Ihouid be*
11 favour of it as it (tood, and against the a
ineudment.
Mr. Nicholas considered this amendment
is defeating the resolution. Was there no
hing, he alked, which called for a declarati
on of the kind proposed f Was it not clear to
every one that the country was going faft into
a date of war, and (in the words of Mr. Sit
greaves) was it not to be expected f Ought
not the legidature, then, (who have only the
power of declaring war) to determine the date
of the country, and fay whether they mean to :
go immediately to war, or not f He thought i
he necedity ot the resolution was fufficiently i
evident, by the motion which had been made
to change the words trom "refoit to war,"
ro declare 'war ; if the one cafe the mifchiet
was met, whild the other meant nothing. And
if gentlemen were ready to fay we were not i
prepared to declare 'war, and at the fame time
were not ready to fay it is not expedient to re
fart to 'war, it proved that they thought war
might be made without being declared. He
alked whether gentlemen did not believe the
Executive had taken measures which would
lead to war f And that it he were at liberty to
aft upon a change of circumstances between
this country and others, Congress were not
brought into a situation in which they had no
choice ? Many difcuflions had heretofore tak
en place on the constitution, but he had ne
ver yet heard it doubted that Congress had
the )iower over the progress of what led to
war, as well as the power of declaring v\ar ;
but if the President could take the measures
which he had taken with refpeit to the arm
ing of merchant vessels, lie and not Congress
had the power of making war. Heafked whe
ther, when report went so far as to speak ofan
alliance offenfive and defenfive with a foreign
country, it was not time to come to a declara
tion on the fubjett ? Suppose such an alli
ance was formed, would it not be said that
Congress are bound to carry it into effect f He
knew it would, though he fhbuld refill the
do£lrine. Mr. Nicholas he should be
as unwilling to submit to any foreign coun
try as the gentleman from S. Carolina ; but
he could not, like that gentleman, fay "he was
not afraid of ivar. I am, faici he, afraid of it.
This country affords me all the happiness I
can with or hope for, and I know war v*iU be
j destruction to it. What was the difference
• betwixt liimfelf and that gentleman, in this
j respect, he could not tell j it was to him fur-
I priling that any gentleman should be without
| tear as to the mifchief» of war. He was of
opinion that the step taken by the President
with respect to merchant vessels went to de
clare, that we relted ourcaufe on arms,which
was not calculated to produce any good effect
in our favour. He hoped the amendment
would not be agreed to ; if it was, he should
vote against the resolution itfelf : and he did
not think the gentleman from New-Jersey,
when he read the message of the Rrelident,
could think there was as much danger of a
war with any other country as with the French
Republic. 1 ' S
Mr. Brooks agreed with the gerttleman
who brought forward this resolution, so far as
it declares we ar<- not prepared to resort to
war. He believed no nation or man, who had
common understanding, could be fond of war.
The people of this Country have yet the re
collection of the fatal effects of the late war.
, But there are two kinds of war, offentive and
defenfive. He wilhed gentlemen to distinguish
betwixt them ; for tho' he was ready to de
clare against offenlive war, and to submit to
small injuries father than make defenfive war,
yet lie vvas not willing to fay he Ihould not be
ready to defend his country against the attack
;of any foreign power whatever. He hopedJi#
f ihould be believed in this'declaration, as he
had formerly been employed in the defence of
| it ; and if gentlemen meant that tho' foreign
; nations attempt to invade our territory, and
to reduce us again to the colonies of a foreign
power, (hey would not repel them, he could
not join them in opinion. And though he
should vote for the resolution as moved to be
amended, he should feel himfclf at perfect li
-1 berty to defend his country in cafe of attack.
He wondered the gentleman from Virginia
should objeCt to vote for the refolutior, be
cause it was general, as it included the French
Republic as wefl as all other nations.
Mr. Uui l.dgk hoped the principle upon
which the gentleman from New-York afted,
would govern the committse, and that its lan
guage and condufl on the present occalion,
would convince the world, that-although peace
is mofl ardently desired by America, yet that
she is ready and determined to defend her rights
ayainit the atticks of any so eign power what
ever. He trufled ttiat congrefs and
the opinions of the in this eriti
c'al juncture be prrfeflly in unison and shew that
alth ugh our citizens value thebleflings o{peace
as highly a? any people can prize them, yet they
are r adv to abandon them if the preservation
of their libert es and independence shall require
it, and that they will refill insult and injury
trom whatever quarter they may come. He be
lieved no leg flative aflembly was ever called
upon to make fa unneceflary a declaration as the
one under consideration. When there l wjs no
propofitiwn for going to war, when no member
talked of declaring war, and when, as he he-
I eved, no one thought of foing to war with the
French republic ; why the committee fh.iuld
make a declaration of peace, he could not un-
I derfland : but useless an 1 novel as this resolution
| «as, he should vote for it as amended by the
; honorable member from Jtrfey, because there
| were certain members of the committed who
were daily declaring trat other members were
forgoing to war, and if he did not now rote
f r a declaration of peace, these charitable gen
tlemen might imply that he was willing for war.
Ir. these days of j aloufy and ful'picion, it was
oeceflary for public men to weigh their words
and anions with as much riisety as poison which
was intended not to have fatal effects, and this
being the cafe, if he was to vote against the
present unmeaning resolution, he might be f id
he was for war. To a gentl.-man from Virgin
ia, who is conlantly founding this chirge (Mr.
Giles) he took this occasion of faying, that his
declarationjsit rehtt-d to himfelf, was not true.
Gentlemen alked whether war is not ap
proaching t And whether the Executive is
not hastening it ? ToT'the -latter question, he
would anfwerin the negative ; with respect td
the other, he could not answer, as it depended
upori'France, and so versatile and uncertain is
every thing in that country, that no depen
dance can be had upon it. Mr. R. said, at
the last feflion, when we had no intercourse
with France, he thought it necefTary we should
have it ; that intercourse had proved ineffec
tual ; and though hefincerely wiftied for peace,
yet he saw something in the conduct of France
which almost precluded the hope.
The gentleman from Virginia had said, that
this country had frequently been stated as in a
degraded date. He did not recollect to have
made the declaration ; but this was his opini
on. When our national rights had been vio
lated ; when our commerce had been depre
dated ; when vessels of belligerent powers
which had fought anafylumin our waters,
had been plundered and burnt, he thought it
neceftary to go into measures of defence. He
thought our frigates ought not to have re
mained at the wharves; that our e*ten(ive
sea-coast, on which is much wealth, should
not be unprotected ; he thought our sea-ports,
the principal depots of our revenue, ought
to have been fortified. He joined his friends
in their attempts to have carried these mea
sures, and when they failed, he could not
help thinking his country was in a degraded
state, and that she had loft the spirit which
animated her in yetir 1775. He hoped,
however, that now, when France had gone
to the leagths which she has gone to, that
there would have been onlyone f'entimentas to
the propriety of the measures formerly propo
i fed. But though he thought the Nation in a
• degraded state, he was not 111 favour of war.
I He believed the citizens of thfs country were
1 not for it. He believed the Government was
1 averse to war ; and that no part of it was more
so than the Executive. War would be loss
to this Country ; and to no individual more
than the Executive. He is no warrior, and
consequently War has no laurels in flore for
him.
The gentleman from-Virginia had spoken
of War as having something dazzling in per
spective ; something which flattered, pride
and ambition. But (fid the gentleman sup
pose that a war with France could be flatter
ing to pride or ambition f It could not ; it
would be a war of pruaence; we mutt shut
otirfelves up, and ad oh the defenfive, and
fay, " When reason returns ; when an ebb
shall take place in the affairs of France ; when
her flow of victories shall be over, she will do
us justice." In the mean time, we mull de
fend ourselves. Mr. R. repeated that he did
not believe any man in .that houfc could.wish
for war ; when he looked round him, and
saw gentlemen whose wounds are yet fore from
former service ; when he saw them voting for
measures of defence, he could not believe,
nor could any believe that they wiftied to
plunge {he country in war. It would sooner
be believed that gentlemen who made the
charges we e mistaken.
Mr. Sewall was opposed to the proposi
tion as it now Itood, and hoped it would be
amended. What effect it would then have,
he left those to judge who introduced it. Mr.
$. {aid, he, and thafc who on all que.lionS of
defertte had voted with him, had been en
deavouring for fomc time to go into some
measures of that kind ; and to determine whe
ther these measures fkould be confined to our
own limits, or be extended to the ocean.
These measures ought now to be decided up
on, as this is a moment in which our com
merce is depredated upon in a mod unprece
dented manner. We are now, said he, call
ed upon to hazards of ourfititati
-011, [Mr. S, then quoted a parr of the Presi
dent's melfage as to the filiation of our allairs
in France, and as to the decree which was
prppofed respecting the taking of English
goods 011 board of neutral velfels, and the
carrying of which was declared to make neu
tral velfels good prizes.] This last regulati
on, Mr, S. said, was a direst violation of the
law of nations, and amounted to a declarati
on of war on the part of Fiance againlt this
country. But, inllead of making any defence,
gentlemen call upon the committee to declare
weare not disposed torefort to war against the
French Republic ; so that after we have been
injured and abused, and denied the common
rights of humanity, we are not to complain,
but make a declaration that we will not go to
war- Was then, a question of war, he alk
ed, a Card of Politeriefs ? Did a nation ever
make a declaration that it was not at war ? It
could not fay so, except it were in so degfa
ded a state that it had no rights capable of in
jury. To fay we are not at war, was to fay
110 more than it is light when the fun (hines ;
but to call upon the committee to fay so at
this time, was to degrade the nation from its
independence, and below its character. The
present state of things, Mr. S. said, ought to
beconlidered as a flute of war,not declaredb y
us, but against us, by the French Republic ;
audit, said he, we want spirit to defend our
selves, let us not fay so ; we may refrain from
aCting,but let us not fay we receive injuries with
thankfulnefs. But this proportion goes (till
further. In a moment ot public danger, it
goes to divide and separate this house from
the Prelident of the United States. The gen
tleman from Virginia had well explained this
resolution, when he said it was intended to
interrupt the views of the President ot the U
nited States. That gentlemanconfidered the
meflage of the President as a declaration of
war, and this resolution was to be in contra
diction to it. If this was the sense in which
it was to be tinderftood, it was falfe in point
of fact ; for the President had neither decla
red War, nor called upon Congress to de
clare War ; 110 such sentiment could be found
in the meflage. To agree to the proportion
as it (lands, would be to give countenance to
the aftertion of the French government that
we are a' people divided from otif govern
ment ; but taking it with the amendment, he
looked upon it as a harmlcfs thing. Mr. S.
concluded by faying, that he considered the
conduit of France in the light of War. How
far we would resent it, was the question,
whether offenfively or defenfively. He was
in favour of defenfive measures, as we are not
equal to offenfive measures (he wiftied to God
we were). It was our weakness, and the di
vision which had appeared in our councils,
that had invited these attacks. He
they should and repel them.
Mr. Gallatin said, before the speech of
the gentleman just fat down, he could not dis
cover w hat was the meaning of the amend
ment to lirike out the words against the French
Republic, as when the house were in a com
mittee of the whole on the State of the Union,
tor considering the late meflage ot the Presi
dent, the resolution was perfectly consonant.
Bdf'des, we have no danger to apprehend
from any other power, since our dispute is
fettled with Spain. The intention of the a
mendment was evidently to render the reso
lution as unmeaning as pollible.
Every gentleman who had spoke on this
subjeCt had agreed that war is not a desirable
objeCt for the United States. He gave them
credit for the aftertion. But this was not the
question ; but whether we are prepared to re
sort to war under exilting circumstances, It is
a question ot fact. Mr. G. took notice of the
different modes which had been attempted to
defeat the resolution ; but he said, though the
present amendment were agreed to, he should
(till vote in favour of the resolution ; for it
would be effectual in some degree, as.it could
only apply to the French nation,though it was
not so exprelfed.
Mr. G. believed the United States were
arrived at a crisis at which a stand ought to be
made ; in which it was neceftary tor Congress
to fay whether they will resort to war, or pre
serve peace. He was led to this conclusion
from a review of the conduit of France, and
of the late meflage of the Prelident.
In respect to France, we know, that some
time ago, she declared our treaty- with her to
t: at an end ; though not in words, therefult
was to deprive us of the .advantages derived
from that treaty. In the next place, the dif
milfed our minister plenipotentiary. Under
thefie circumstances, the Prelident called the
extraordinary feflion of Congress, and when
met together, after having related the reasons
which induced this call,heconcluded with fay
ing, " that it was his sincere desire to preserve
peace and friendfhip with all nations, and be
lieving that neither the honour nor the interest
of the United States absolutely forbade the
repetition of advances for securing these de
sirable objects, he Ihould not,fail to promote
and accelerate an accommodation, See." The
President accordingly sent envoys to France,
and the result of the embassy was given to
Congress in the last meflage, which was now
under consideration, in which he fays, " the
object of the million cannot be accommodated
on terms compatible with the fafety, honour,
or the essential interelts of the nation." The
people of the United States are therefore in
formed, that negociations are at an end, and
that we cannot obtain redress for wrongs, but
may expeCt a continuation of captures incon
sequence of the decree which it was supposed
was part, for seizing all neutral vessels with
British property, manufactures or produce on
board. Mr. G, said he differed in opinion
from the gentleman last up, that this was a de
claration of war. He allowed it would be
jufhfiable ground of war for this country, and
that, on this account, it was neceftary to agree
to, orreject the present proposition, in order
to determine the ground intended to be taken.
For though there may be juftifiable cause for
war, if it is not our interest to go to war,the re
solution will be agreed tp.
There was another reason why this resolu
tion ought to be now decided, which arose
from the conduct of our Executive. He has
declared that a change of circumstances has
taken place which has occasioned him to with
draw his order forbidding merchant vessels to
arm, which amounts so this, that he now per
mits vessels of the United States to life , means
ofdefence against any attack which may be
made upon them. Mr. G. thought it neces
sary, therefore, to declare, whether we were
to pursue measures of war or peace. Before
measures are taken which will lead to war,
the house ought to decide whether it is their
inteation at present to go to war.
Ilie genueman from New-York had spo
ken of the difference betwixt offenfive and
I defenfive war. This related to the motives,
mare than to the manner,of cus -; ■ on war ,
because when war is once entered ..' o, though
it may be at firft defenfive, it can.:>"t remain
so. It would be ridiculous, for instance, t®
fay, that our frigates (liould prevent outvef
fels froth being taken j but that they ftibuld
not take French privateers. ,
But it was fail), if the relolution was agreed
to, it would confirm the opinion which had
been held that Congress and the' Executive
were divided in opinion. The gentleman
from Mallachufetts (Mr. Sewall) told the
house that the question was War or
that the conduct of France was'a declaration
of war, yet, as the President had not called
upon Congress to go to war, they ought not
to declare it is not expedient torefort to war.
But if it be alfiiined as a principle, which that
gentleman alTerts, that ihe condurt of the
French is a declaration of war, and the Presi
dent has told us we are in war, the resolution
could not be improper. Or if his other prin
ciple be alfumed, that the information of the
President does not amount to war, then an a
greement to the resolution would (hew that
Congress concurred with him in opinion, that
ir is not proper at present to resort to war. S»
that in both cases, the resolution is proper.
Mr. G. said he was precluded by the a
mendment from going into the merits of the
resolution. His arguments went to (hew the
propriety of agreeing to it'\n oije way or o
ther. Nor did he mean to take any notice of
what had been said about a division of opi
nion in our councils having invited the insults
and injuries which France had committed a
gainst this counts)'. If he were to do this,
lie mult have recourse to recrimination, which
he did not vvilh. He wilhed rather to take a
serious view of our present iituation, andjeither
meet it by war, or by measures which (hall
avoid war. On both fides are difficulties ;
but thedifficultiesand rnconveniencies ofboth
ought to be weighed, and the least taken, and
having determined, measures ought tobepur
fued accordingly. He did not wifli to adopt
the raiblution as proposed to be amended, and
then go on and att directly contrary to it. He
thought it belt to meet the resolution at once,
and fay whether we are determined on war or
peace. If we go to war, we mud expert to
meet all the ex pence and evils of such a (late ;
and if we remain at peace, we mult, in a cer
tain degree,fubmit. He meant to fay, that
we must submit to have a number of our ves
sels taken. But whether we (hall have more
taken in adopting one course than the other,
he left gentlemen to determine. He thought
the fubmirtion he had mentioned, very diffe
rent from the fubmifiion which had been fno
ken by the gentleman from South-Carolina
and others.
Mr. G. concluded, by observing, that the
condurt of France must tend to deftrov that
influence which gentlemen had so often com
plained of,as existing in this country. Indeed,
he was convinced that at the commencement
of her revolution there was a gr»at enthufiafni
amongst our citizens in favour of her cause,
which naturally arose from their having been
engaged in a similar contest ; but he believed
these feelings had been greatly diuiini(hed by
her late condurt towards this country. He
thought, therefore, that whether we engaged
jn war, or remained in a (late of peace, much
need not be apprehended from the influence
of France on our councils. The business was
come to a mere matter of calculation, as to
what course will be belt to betaken for the
intereftand happiness of the country. If he
could separate defenfive from oftenfive war art
(ea, he should be in favour of it ; but hecould
not make the diftinrtion, and therefore he
(hould be in favour of pursuing measures of*
peace.
Several persons rose, but being about three
o'clock a motion was made for the committee
to rife, which was negatived 46 to 44.
Mr. Dana did not conceive that thecon
ftrurtion of language given by the gentleman
from Pennsylvania, was to be taken as true,
without examination. He trusted not. The
gentleman stated the question to be Peace or
War ; he could not conceive it to be such.
It was unfortunate that, in this important
crilis, the house (hould be engaged, like a set
of Rhetoricians, indifputing the meaning of
words. Indeed, the decision 011 tl]e pi-efen
motiort, he thought wholly unimportant.
I lie gentleman last up had said there was
no diftinrtion betwixt offenfive and defenfive
war, and that he was, therefore, opposed to
either. Mr. D. thought the diftinition clear
offenfive war, is when an attack is made up-
to war, merely for felf defence ; but
there was another date of things which could
not have the name of war, which was to have
recoufre to measures of defence ; to be pre
pared in cases of attack. Itwasclear, by th«
law of nations, that to prepare for defence,
was not to commit hostility. To fay that to
take measures of defence, is hostility, was a
new definition, and it was the mighty disco
very of the gentleman from Pennsylvania.
Did gentlemen mean that if wefhould make
use of force against iawlefs violence, it is
war f If not, what did all that had been said
amount to ? He thought the proposition per
fectly nugatory.
But the gentleman said, that his friend from
Maflachufrtts, had said, that France had al
ready declared war against 11s, and that, there
fore, we must resort to war. For his part, he
did not know what gentlemen meant by resort
ing to -war ; if they had adopted terms' which
had any legal meaning, he could have under
stood them j but the present might mean eve
ry thing or nothing. If it meant any thing,
it meant taking artive measures against Prance
in the firft instance. He was not onlv ready
to fay he would not consent to do this with
refpert to France, but with refped to every
other nation.
The gentleman from Pennsylvania, and two
gentlemen from Virginia, had said, that the
message of the President amounted to a decla
ration that we were now in war. This idea
he thought stated very incorrertly. The'y
did not seem to have understood the meaning
of the language of the President. The state
of things which existed at the time orders were
ilfued to prevent the arming of merchait ves
sels was ellentially different from the prtfenf ;
then there was an evident disposition in the
owners of velfels to cruise against a foreign
belligerent nation, and the Ofder wasilfiied to
prevent attack and plunder ; but the desire to
arm at present is for the purpose of defence
merely, and not to cruize or plunder. There
is a law forbidding veflels to arm for the pur
pose of cruising ; but none forbidding mer
chants to arm in their own defence. Thi»
was the fair conllrurtion, he believed, of the
meaning of the President."
Mr. Otis ot-fervrd, that the oppofcrs of this a
mendtrent could assign no better reason for declar
ing a desire to keep peace with the French repub
lic to the cxclufion of other nations, than their own
conflruAion of the Prcfident's Jail mcflage, whicb
they confidcrtd V» direded to that republic »lone ;
but the house having resolved itfelf into a com
mittee wf the wholv on th« Aatc of tfce unitfti, the
resolution on the table had 110 greater relation to
that message, than to any farmer speech or mt sage,
or to the affairs of the union at large. - If it was
intended as an anfwcr to the melfajje, it fhinild be
moved in that form; but unlcfs it was in 4 parti
cular manner co:n-iicd with it, Ulf f übKc couldnot coare.s i' rr.ore naturally with this menage
than with the fptech delivered it the opening of
the fcfiion. The house hid be*n heretofore in
formed that France wa« not the only country with
which we had r» f n to apprehend a rdpture —
Spain might he considered, yntil lately, ai having
squally invaded our territory ; & thn'the pn func
tion at present was. thatthecanfeiof conteiitionwith
thatc.untry were removed, thi y were not officially
inforine.l of this i-v-l and without fnch informa
ti»n, it vk not lefn proper to expreft their desire
tA main'aiding p?ace with Sp.i.n than with other
tfoMtics. Again, gentlemen had often intimated
that a war with Trance would involve us in a war
with thnfe nations that arc in " alliance" with her;
it wa» tlin-iefore i"e*pcdient to (hew a contempt or
indilPsffltice for them, by leaving them out of our
pacific masifffto.
He confi 1-red the message ill a very different
view from that in which it appeared to other gen
tlemen ; but admitt.ng for the fake of argument
th t their ceaftrsiliou \la» just, an! that the Pr -
fident was really of opini n upon the fails dated by
him that war was inevitable—Gentlemen mull con
sider the fa&s to be true j if they doubled, they
ought to demand information. Hew would this
resolution*then fland ? In reply toaffurances that
negotiations had failed ; that our contmiffioners
were treated with Mglect and contempt; that let
ters of marque and reprKal were ifiucd against our
vfffe s, l aml that the molt hostile appearances were
difccrnihle on the part of the Frcn.h; it was ex
pedient to declare that, with them, and w th them
only, it was inexpedient to resort to war. Such a
proposal would hardly be found in the annals ol
the m*<fc humble and degraded nation-
He d:Tipproved ol the resolution, though Vie
ftsuld vote for the amendment, and would not on
the prtljiit occasion follow gentlemen who hod
gone at Ikrge into the merits of the refolution—U p
-011 ths extent of the rlefcnflve measures propofsd
by g'jntienten, his feelings inclined him to enlarge,
but this discussion would be more pertinent upon
fotne ther question. merely hint that
a*)n-"ii invaiKin might not be the worS calamity to
this country. He could conceive of a partial inva
sion of our territory that would l»= much less inju
rious and attended with much less loft, than the to
tal rum «f our commerce.
The. call for the committee to rife being re
peated,
Mr. N. Smith hoped gentlemen would be
fatisfied to take the question, which he tho't i
very unimportant ; the time consumed in dif
cufling it was, however, important, as other
concerns called for attention. He knew there
were gentlemen who chose rather to address
the people of the United States than to legis
late ; he thought it better to legislate, than
to preach to the people. He looked upon
the present resolution as a text from which it j
was intended to alarm the people with rofpeet
to war, and he wished not to indulge gentle
men in their design. He wilhed the question
to be taken for another reason. It was sug
gested by the gentleman from Virginia, that
the melfage of the Prelident was considered
by the people as a declaration of war, and
that reports were in circulation that a treaty
offenfive and defenfive was concluded with
Great Britain. After this, he would call the
attention of the committee to the resolution,
which was, in etfett, to fay, we must inter
fere, or war will be brought upon the coun
try. Did not this go to sanction a report
which was as falfe and malignant as even jaco
biniiin could invent 1 It did, and he hoped
they would not so far sanCtion the report as to
let the motion lie before them undecided.
Mr. D.v y ton hoped the committee would
rife. Tha gentleman last up began with fay
ing the proposition was of no importance ;
but, before lie fat down, (hewed that he tho't
differently. Mr. D. thought it was of im
portance that the committee fhouldcome to a
right decision upon it ; and fay whether is
ought to \)e agreed to in general terms, or re
jected. ,
Mr. N. Smith explained.
Mr. J. Williams thought the question
trifling, and hoped a decilior) would be had
upon it.
Mr. Giles said, the question wasa question
of peace or war, and*yet gentlemen call it
trifling. He did not mean to alarm the peo
of the United States, but he wished them
to understand "their situation. He acknow
ledged hewas hinifelf much a'armed. Gen
tlemen were willing to engage in defenfive,
but not in offenfive war ; but when war was
once begun it would not be in the power of
the United Statas to keep it within the cha
racter of defenfive war. Indeed the gentle
man from MarTachuletts when he fpyke of de
fenfive war, confefi'ed our inability for offen
five war, and tittered a prayer to the Supreme
Being that we were able to engage offenfively ;
and where he aflced, with such sentiments, is
the difference betwixt offenfive anddefenfive
war f He could fee none ; lie deprecated
war of Aery kind.
.Mr. J. Williams hoped the question
would be taken. As he before stated he
thought it trifling, and the debate upon it
only calculated to alarm the people, which
seemed tyjre the object of gentlemen. If
the q it llitewas not taken before they adjourn
ed, much cebate would lie had, and much time
finert to very little purp:.fe. He thought it vety
extraordinary, as no one was founti to bring for
ward a resolution to declare war, that a gentle
man would introdqee a resolution of its being
» inexpedient so to do. 'He wis perluaded that
this negative mode of proceeding was calculated
so draw on a debate, to set the people against
the executive. Time, he said, was precious,
they had set near B>c monihsand don' but/little.
Murh remained to be done 1 and as all had de
clared their aversion to a war, [he people should
be undeceived. He had himfelf seen gentle
men write upon the late message of the Pre
fident, for the purpose of fending to their
constituents, " A IVar Message against France."
Mr. Macon wished the gentleman would
name who had thus written.
A call of order took place ; and a motion
was made for the committee to rife, and
carried.
Mr. Clopton, from the committee of en
rolment, reported as duly enrolled the bill de-»
daring the assent of Congrefl to an ait of the
state of Maryland for the appointment of a
health-officer; and the bill for continuing in
force the sth section of the poft-oftice and
road aft.
The bill from the Senate for an amicable
fettlemetit of limits with the state of Georgia,
was palled with amendments.
Mr. D. Foster, from the committee of
claims, prepofed a resolution to the hopfe to
the following effect which was ordered to
lie on the table :
" Resolved, That the accounting officers of the
treasury, he and they are berchv directed to adjujl
and fettle the accounts for wages of tbofe non
eimmijianed officers and fildiers in the late \th
MaJfttchuftHS regiment On the continental eftabhfh
mertt, whnfe certificates were delivered to agents
in 'pursuance of an ail of Congress, and 'which
flail be jound to have been embezzled by them,
and who consequently remain nupaid for their
serviceS ; and all such ftims which Qall be allow
ed it such officers and soldiers, fball be charged to
the account of the agents by -whom they "were em
bezzled."
The Sfeaker laid before the houfc a re
portof the Assistant Poftiuafter-General on
the petition of the printers of the Baltimore
new (papers. Tlic report fiates thai the irre
gularities complained of are much exaggerat
ed ; that there vftrt a few ijKtances of'delay
during the winter,on accoutftof the obstruct
ed state of t!Se ferry over the Sufquehannah,
for wliich the contractors have notwithltand
inrj been called to account. The report also
ftatesthat the great number of exchange pa
pers which pals betwixt the printers of news
papers is very troublesome ; it mentions that
there are fifteeA newspapers printed in this
city, the printers of which receive near 1000
papers in a week, and supposing Philadelphia
to receive one-ninth part of ail the exchange
papers which pass through the port-office, it
mlikes the number about 9000 a week, many
ofwhich it is believed a're of little use, and
are never read by the printers who receive
them. ' The report (uggefts, therefore, the
propriety ot either withdrawing this privilege
altogether, or limiting the number of pipers
to be received by any one printer.—Referred
to the committee onpoft-offices and post-roads.
Wednesday, March 28.
A message -was received from the Preftdent of
the United States, informing the House that he had
approved and fiened the folh-wing ails, viz.—-
To continue in force the 51b fethon of the poft
office and post-road atl : to declare the assent of
Congress to an atl of tbe commonwealth of Massa
chusetts; to provide and support a naval arma
ment ; and an atl jg declare the assent of Congress
to an act of the ftHe of Marylahd, for the eftab
lijhment of an health-officer
Mr. Sitg reaves presented the petition of
JpJiah Green, praying for an increase of penjion,
•which -was referred to the committee of claims.
Mr. O ris presented the petition \f William
IVhite, of Biflon, praying for a remission of duty
on wines imported, which proved of inferior
quality to what they were stated to be. Ii was
moved to refer this petition to the committee of
commerce vnd manufaelures ; but the chairman
of that committee Rating that the ctmmittee had
uniformly decided against such applications, where
tbe wines were attended with an invoice, tbe
motion was negatived.
Mr. D. Koster, from the committee of
claims, made a report on the petition of James
Swan, who claims a largefum fr,r interest, char
ges and damages in a contrail with the Secre
tary of the Treajury, on a bill'of exchange drawn
on Paris. The report states, that it would be
inexpedient for the legtflature to interfere in the
bujinefs. The report was committed for to-mor
row.
Mr. M'Dowell said, a bill from tbe Senate
to authorize the President of the United States to
I purchase one or more founderies, had been referred
to a committee of the whole, and might be expec
ted fbortly to come under conjideration. As be
had not J'ufficient informattan on this fubjetl In
enable htm to vote underftandingly upon tbe bills
he wished to call upon the proper officer for an
account of cannon purchafedfince the year 1794,
in order to ascertain the necessity or propriety of
passing the proposed lav/. He therefore proposed
the following resolution to the house ;
" Resolved, That the President of the United
States be required to cause the proper officer to lay
before this house, the number of cannon which may
have been purchased for the use of the frigates, the
revenue cutters, and fortifications, since the firfl of
January, 1794, with the size of the cannon, and sta
ting what proportion of them were cast within the
United States, at what founderies,and an account of
the prices paid for each size."
This resolution was agreed to, and Messrs.
M'Dowell and IV. C. Claiborne, appointed a
committee to wait upon the president therewith,
Me. Gallatin observed, that'when the ap
propriations for the military department Were
vefterday under confederation, several sums were
left in blank, for the want of information. He
proposed resolutions to the following effed, ift or
der to obtain that infoimation, which were a
gred to.
" Resolved, That the Secretary of War be
direited to lay before this Houfie, a statement
in detail of the expenditure of the money ap
propriated for the subsistence of the army, for
the quarter-master's andlndian departments,
bounties, defenfive proteftionaf the frontiers,
and of all contingent expences in the war de
partment in the year i 797, from whence reUilt
the deficiencies by him stated in his estimate,
amounting tothe several sums of 114,165 dol
lars, and 50,000 dollars ; and that he include
in the fame statement an estimate of the num
ber of rations issued during that year to the
Indians at the several polls-, See.
" Also, an estimate of the probable appro
priation necessary for the quarter-master's de
partment for the present year.
" Also, a statement of the several existing
contracts made for the fubfiftenceof the army.
The Houfc again resolved itfelf into a commit
tee of the whole on the Stafe of the Union ; when
the amendment to Ihe firfl of Mr. Sprigg's propo
rtions as to the inexpediency under extfting cir
cumstances, of resorting to war against the French
Republic, being under confideration —which a
mendment is to ft rite out the words French Re
ublic—Meffrs. Pinckney, Dayton, Shepard and
parper spoke in favour of the amendment, and
Hr. Giles in explanation. The debate to-mor-
Mrow.
JUST RECEIVED.
And for faieby W.Young, corner of Second
and Chefnut-ltreet, M. Carey 118 High-flreet
T. Dobfon, 41 South Secor.d ftieet and the
Boekfellers generally,
BEACON HILL,
A Local Poem, hitloric and descriptive 1
By a Lajy of By) on,
Analyl;s of Book I. to-morrow,
march 29-
To be foid at Public Vendue,
On SATURDAY, the 3111 of March inft. «t 11
o'c'ocfc, at Chtfnut Greet wharf, for the benefit
of the concerned,
Sundries favedfrom the wreck of thefhip John,
AS under —
5 coils of Cordage
16 boxes Window Glals
2 ditto holloa ditto
45 ftraw*of Tumblers
a pipes of Holland Gin
162 (hee s of Copper
1 barrel of new Copper Nails, No. 169
Half a keg of old ditto
-6 pair of lower Shrouds
1 old Sail
5 Cabbin Windows, with Glafles
5 ditto with Blinds
7 iron hooped Water Calks
2 H<-n Coops
2 new Pumps with copper or bras* chambers
Pump Gcer for ditto
I r.chor, weight about 2700 lb.
1 ditto, about 1600
28 fhrets of Copper
/ibout two tons and half of Swcd&« bar Iron
2 iron Knees
CONNELLY & Co. Auctioneers*
march 28 d.ft
G 1 N $ K A' G,
- SAMUEL HOWELL,
NO. 54, CHESNUT STREET.
Wants to purchase good GiXS£NG,
gathered in season, and clear of damage—
fur which a generous price will be given if
delivered any time before the 15th of April.
XJje <sas ette^
P H 1 LA D EL PHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, March 29
MR. SPRIGG
Made his_/fr/2 appearance in the " National
7heatre," on Tnffdiy last in the character
of Cat's patv, in a new play called " the
LAST STRUGGLE, OR. FACTION BLOWN
up." Althnughthe managtrs are doubt-'
less entitled to i'ome credit for setting bini
in a charaflcr very obviously adapted to his
capacity and Ration 011 the 11 age, yet it was
not perhaps quite generous to compel him to
make his debut in a fart certainly contemptible,
and by no means calculated to givc eclat to a
new performer. When a man hjs no talents
for afting, no power to force an up-hill cha
rafter, he (hould have parts that aft them
selves ; or be kept entirely as a lacquey, call
boy or fene-Jbifier —The part was originally
cajl for Mr. M'Clay of the Little Haymarh
et, who entirely failed, getting nothing but
difgrac? for himfeff and contempt for the
part he afted. It was not fair to impose on
Mr. Sprigg's ignorance and good-nature,
and tliruft him cut in a character already
damned, and which the older hands (hrunk
from—The broad faced ineonfidency of the
sentiments that have been put into his mouth
is pnly'falculated to make any performer ri
diculous ; how then could Mr. S. stand it,
withont chara&eroi talents to support him ?
The managers fliould recollect that, irr
these cafes,although the poor adW is laugh
ed at and despised, yet they (hare in the
disgrace, and will nave a portion of the
public resentment, as it is well knowrr they
cajl the charaSert and parts, and the poor
players mull obey or forfeit their engagements.
It is said there will be shortly performed for
the benefit of Mr.Giles " The deserter"
to which will be added the comic opera of
the " poor soldier."
THEATRICUS.
The Bo Aon Chronicle received by this day's mail
informs, that there has been a meeting of 114 of
the inhabitants of Roxhury, a neighboring town,
2nd that they v»ted to petition Gongrefs against al
lowing the merchants to arm their velTels—only
four diflfentients.
It is fupp.ofed that this was an adjournment of
their annual March meeting.
ERRATA.
%* In yesterdays Gazette, in the account of Mr.
Ainfworth's death, for " Dublin Countyread
Dauphin County.
In the second column Mr. Reed'ifpeech 9th line
foi " inspiring" read injuring,
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA..
arrived, days.
Ship South Carolina, Garnan Charleston 8
Brig Active, Williams, St. Jago de
Cuba 28
Harmony, Pennifter, Isle of France 90
Schr. Sea Flower, Beard, Frederikfburg 3
Jupiter, Burbank, New-York 3
Angelica, Foster, Curracoa 32
10 Sloops from the Southward with lumber
cleared.
Ship Commerce, Waifcoat Boston
Philadelphia, Bliss Hamburgh
Tenneflee, Smith New-York
Schr. Henrietta, Morrifon Laguira
Commerce, Arnold Cape-Francois
Archibald, Macey Halifax, N. S.
Orange, Sowle, New-Bedford
Favorite, Shaw Charleston
Sloop Nancy, Hardy Cape-Francois
Patience, Willis, New-York
Sally, Brown Surinam
Bovvcn Snowhill
Nancy, Smith New-Bedford
The Swedish brig Navigation, Lind
ftreom from hem.e, has arrived at Marfeiiles.
The brig Anthony, Garret, of this port
from New-York, has been taken by the
French and sent into St. Martins.
The (hip America, capt. Jacobs, in 152
days from Madrafs and Tranquebar, is own
ed by Meflrs. Joseph Anthony and Co. and
loaded entirely with Pepper, The Ameri
ca is frigate built and pierced for 22 guns—
upon anchoring off Chefnut-ftreet wharf, i
she fainted the city with 16 guns.
The sloop Dependence, Carson, fiorn
hence, has arrived at Port au Prince.
The schooner Yeatman, capt. Crane, of
this port, is taken and carried into St. Jago.
The sloop Nelly, capt. Pease, is arrived
at St. Jago from Jamaica, where (he had
been carried on her pafiage from hence to
L'Ancevan—cergo condemned, veflel clear
ed.
Captain Williams was boarded by the
Thetii, who broke open all his letters, and ,
after a ftu'& examination luffercd him to .
proceed.
The (hips Prudence, Fabius, and Caro- ■
line—.brigs Florida, Lady Wafhington—
fchr's Maria Matilda, Ranger, Ann, and
several other vefFelfewent to sea on Monday
lad. j
The brig Aflive, Bake, from henee, has
arrived at St. Thomas.
CHARLESTON, March 15.
A gentleman passenger who arrived 111 the
brig Aurora from Bourdeaux, informs, that
tie Englilh govmiment had resolved to in
, sure their own trade, at a premium of
per cent, fubjefling all vessels failing with
out a convoy to a penalty of zoool. The >
number of privateers cOmmifiioned in France
i amounts to 109 ; the returns of French
privateers captured by th* Engli(h, from the
monfh of April to August 1797, was 107 — !
the returns since that period were not yet
received.
* The name of an American, is the ward
travelling name in Franc?, ar.d fubje&s the
wearer not only to negteft but insult ; any
American will find it much more convenient
to be a Spaniard, Italian or Dutchman.
No paflports are flow granted to Ameti
cnr.s, andthey car.rot obtair.lcattto go from ' 1
Bourdeaux to Paris.
COMMVMCATION.
It is conjfdturcd, that the sole reason, '
why tilt- government of th« United States j
have not yet permitted and promoted the
arming of merchant vefftls, as well as those
defenfive preparations, which for a conside
rable time have breri also evidently necessa
ry to the very exigence of our commrtce,
and the proteftion of our cities and coads,
is, That sensible of the prevalence of a de
baftd Sans Culotte fadlion, \#fiich tho' small
had scattered its creatures thougbout the
dates, to foment diforder3 atid create difaf
feftion and nppefition, to any measures
which the present dangerous situation of our
country demands, they have and patiently
wait until the fetife of the people under the
fuffering. of negleft and insult to their roini
ders and pillage of their property (hall of
itfelf point out the plan of security
and redress.—Petitions were once very falh
ionable ! ! !
A Correspondent observes, that the Ja
cobins did not condemn what they called
retaliating measures against Britain in '94,
though simple fclf-defcnce against French
ftrikes ihem with horror. An
old Cronicle of '94, happened to be.before
my eye 3 eur correspondent fays, he was
struck with feeing . the fafety of the Danes
against I?iiti(h depredations imputed to their
having force. The Americans, fays the
Chronicle paragraphift, have pursued a dif
ferent system, and they Have been" pillaged.
Now it seems the arguments taken from
their very mouths are to be scouted.
One would think a mind, not perverted
with French principles, would discern that
it is faftr and more prudent to arm against
France, than against Britain, in '94. Thc
fleets of France are dlfmantled—our worst
robbersnre the single small privateers. To
chastise them we are as competent as in '94,
to contend with the British navy. We hive
now more to fight for, more to fight with,
and less to fight agaioft. Treaty then pro.
cured security and reparation—now more
wrongs and more insults.
Where the executive power in a free state
is weak, foreign influence will prevail. No
truth is more profound, or admits of more |
proof from the nature of men ; no teftimo- •
ny from experience is more solemn or enfor
ces its warnings to mankind with more aw- )
ful solemnity or more sanguinary tragedies
—thus is the attempt to break down and
eypherize our President so often renewed af
ter being baffled ?—becaufe foreign faftion
exids among us, and the President as well
as virtue and the laws stand in their way,
therefore they try to remove all these obfta
cJes. Suppose the French for instance had
the upper hand here, the President would
be no more than chairman of a committee ;
a player who would strut his hour on the
stage and be dismissed.
This remark is addrefied to men of sense .
and to the watchful friendr of liberty. Let
them read the debates of Congress on the
appropriations for foreign ministers, and let
them be purfuaded that the "attack on our
Constitution is closely conne&ed with the
servile devotednefs of a party sb France.
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, March 28.
The following resolution pafied the House
of Afle'mblyof this State, the 19th inft.
" Resolved, That his Excellency the Go
vernor be requested to caufeto belaid before
this hjufe, an edimate of the sums neces
sary, and means to be adopted for putting
the city and port of New-York in a refpeft
able date of defence ; and that he be also ;
reqirefted to inform this house, whether there j
be grounds to expetl the co-operation of !
the government of the United States in de- I
fraying the expence attending this objeft." 1
Mejfage from his Excellency the Governor. \
GENTLEMEN,
In pursuance of your resolution of the
19th inft. I have taken measures to be in
formed of the present intentions of the gov
ernment of the United States, rela
tive to putting the city and port of!
; New-York in a refpe£table of de- ;
fence—on receiving that information, it (hall!
be immediately communicated to you.»
As the constitution of the United States
has committed to our national government |
the power and the means, and the duty of
providing for the national defence, it is to
; be expefted, as well as hoped, that due at
. tention will be paid to the security of a city
and port so obviously and eflentially import
ant, not only to this State, but to the Uni
ted States.
But at this jun&ure, when prudence
' forbids delay, it in my opinion deserves to
: be considered, whether it would be advifea
! ble for the Ligiflature to adjourn until they
! fee this great objeft provided for ; and whe
ther existing circumstances do not judify a
canfidense that the United States will cheer
j fully aflume the expence of such judicious
' measures as this State nyy take for that
purpose.
Urgent considerations also recommend that
our supply of arms and stores be seasonably
augmented, and made ample, and that no
time be loft in perfefting those military ar
rangements and eftabliihmeuts to which
menacing circupiftances admonish "us ;o at
tend—on these fubjefts the Legislature al
ready poflcfs much information, and I ex
pert soon to furnifh you with additional de
tails ; at present it may be proper to ob
serve that according to an estimate made
the lad year, about sixty thousand dollars
\ will be necessary to finifli the fortification|on
the three Islands in the harbour of New-
York- JOHN JAY.
By the (hip Olive, arrived yederday from
Port-au-Prioce in 15 d*ys, we arc informed
ascertain, that all the Engli/h ports ia St.
Domingo have beenaltacked by the repub
licans—that the Grand-Bois and Mirebalais
ar« entirely evsceatej—th.u the republican*
arc in poflciHo'jof tlie entrance of the har.L>T
of Port-au-Prince ; and that the regimen:
of Jean Francois, which had formerly lu> -
rendered thetnfe'trs to the Britfrti gor.-n:-
ment, hr.d received orders togoto St.Mark*
to reir.fnrce that place, but heving refufed
to obey, had been embarked by order ot
the Englifli commandant.
1 he Olive fcJiicd irom the Mole in com
pany with about 14 fail of American vcf
tela under convoy ot a flocp of war, among
which was the brig , capt. Arden for
New-York, parted company 6 days ago.
( Diary.)
NOkFOUC, March iz.
A Qari<h brig arrived on Ttiefday, in 48 days
from Malaga, informs, that Cadiz was (li'l block,
'.dec! by the £ngli3i,and that the French private *rf
row-l»«st«, Sec. continued <0 capturs all vciTe'.s
they f.I! in with, and carried them into Spanith
ports, where they were sure . f being condemned.
Same day i.rri»<-d a vessel from Bermuda, iv),o
fpnie a Hup off oar coast, which wa» brought Wo
by a Fr-I.ch privateer of 14 guns; foouaftrth*
Bermu uu defcried'he privateer, butb.ing clefs
afli re was not cha/cd.
WILMINGTON, .March *6.
Extraifl (if a writer from a gent traan in London
to i is brother in 'his piste, doted Jan. 15, '9B.
" inrjy last J refrained remaking upon the
fittiition nf this country, truing riiac it wouid
' ave I e?n in mv pou er before now, to exfiler
ate you wish the news of the reftorstion of prace
and feeurity. I imagined tint the ruins of our
enemies would v ew the miseries of their peo
ple with pity and remorse, and relijrning the
ra e of conqu ■•'>, wou'd'read}!* ll ten to" any
honoralde ter-ris u!ich would'fecure to .heni
the Jtpple p IlcifiO'i o, their lerriiotres : hut in
this 1 have been niiilaken , f r they have fcern
ed all our otiprs ol peace, ar,d even meditate
our<'eftrn!lion. I hey are drtdk with Asccefs,
and their hcarrs are gradually Opened to fero;i
ty and violence. Their present le. 1 filters de
clare that every pnvrrnment but their ovn is a
tyrannical ufurpanon ; .mil thev are preachii.p
up iHJiirreiftions as the m ifl f JC -ed duty of the
citizens. \\ hit then are we to t-xpefl froth luch
a nation ?---a nation who are abandoned to ev
ery fen fe of honor— 3 nation who have been guil
ty 1 f so many unprtiveke,! asgrrObns upon
teutral pawers a nation who'hold# out to ad
miration, mothers rejoicing in the death of their
sons ; fans devoting their lathers to the mur
derer's sword. Great God ! grant tha fa h a
fyllem may never be eftah'.iflied on the ruins of
the Britilh conflitution !
" Much has been said here of an invifion 5
but it is the general opinion, that we hive no
thing to fear on that head ; thoHgh I think we
have every thing that is bad to dread from a
continuation of the war-rit is that which will
turn the people against the government—it is
that, and that only, which will ever give the
French a footing 011 Enghfh ground, Birt I
trust the example of Flanders and Holland will
befufficient to deter us from embracing the de
ftruflivc fraternity of France. I mention, witli
regret, the gleomy clouds of misery, v hich
seem to be impending over our heads, and which
if we do not life every exertion to expel the
ambition and rapacity of France, will,' in all
probability, fall upon us. Pitt's triple tax-bi.l
has met with a very unpopular reception j and
lam fully of opinion there will be a change of
ministry, as it is morally impoffiblc for
pie to exist much longer under their burthens.
The militia were never known so outra
geous as at present. They adl m if they had
the whole power in their own hands. Domes
tic happmefs they have invaded. The poor arc
either compelled by force, or drawn in by Arat
agem, to enter into the fervict of war—the
peaflnt is dragged from his fottage to be train
ed for battle, which his foul abhors —the plough
man row quits his plough and peaceful hamlet,
and she mechanic his work-shop—the young
men are obliged to defcrt the hymeneal altar,
and abandon infirm fathers, weeping mothers,
and affiled families. Thousands will here be
facriSced to gratify the pride, the caprice and
folly of an unthinking few. Notwithflanding
markets art high, and a number of poor peo
ple out of employ, it don't prevent the sorest .11-
1 A from having their granaries filled with graitj
xHuch is likely to be higher."
NEVV-THEATRIf.
Mr. More ton's Night.
\ TO-MORROW EVENING, Marcfc 30,
Will be presented (not performed thefc three years)
a celebrated Tragedy, called,
THE ROMAN FATHER ;
OR, THE BELITEREEt OF HIS COUNTRY.
1 ullus Hoftilius, mr Warren—Horatiiu (ths
! Roman Father) mr Fcnnell—l'uMins Herat u?, mr
| MarOeall—Valerius, mr Fox—Volfcinius", mr
! Warrell, jun—Veudicius, mr 1* WarreM—lit Ci
j tizen, ir.r '.Varrell—id Citizen, mr'Bliffett—3d
j Citizen, mr Hunt-r.
j Valeria : miss I.'Kftrange—Horatio, mri Merry
I (being her firlt appearance in America in that cha
railer.)
In A3 V A GR AND OVATtON, with the Tri
umphal Entry of Pubiiits, afrer his ViSory
ov.r the Cui iatii.
The Vocal parts by Mefirs. M 'r!hal!, Darley,
Warrell, jun. Mrs. Warrell, Mrs. Oldmiiot, Miss
Milbaurne, &c. &c.
Pnd thf* TragerS*.
AN OCCASIONAL ADDRESS,
Will be fpcien by Mr. V/ignell
Te which wil" be added, a Comedy, H two a<ss,
(never performed here) called,
THE HONEST THIEVES ; '
Or,'FAITHFUL IRISHMEN.
Coioßel Carelef', mr Wignel!—Captain Manly,
mr Marshall—Mr Story, mr Fox—Justice Day,
mr Bernard—Obarii-h, mr Harwood—Bailiff?,
mcffrs Warrell and Hunter'—Coachman, mr Laf
ferty—Teagu: (with a Song in chara&er) »r Har
dinge.
Huth, mrs Marfliajl—Arabella, mrs. Francis—
Mrs Day, mrs Oldmijon.
Tickets to be ha*] at the ufaaj places, and of
Mr. Moreton. Mo. 59, South Front«ftreer, oupo
lite the OClcc.
jOn Monday, the celebrated Tragedy of
KING I,EAR ; with a newF rc*, called
VFRTI.SEMENT, or, A NEW WAV TO GET
MARRIED—for the Benefit of Mr Finnell.
Mr. Hakwood's night will be on Wednef
dav next
A Negro Bov for sale.
HE is about 13 yea** old, ana lias about 15
years to ferTs, having been bou*<J until he
it 28 yearsold, inprcfencs of,the vieyor ps this
City and Mr. Thomas Harrifon. He is both ac
tive an £ mifcbi-vcn>, but is capable ot heceaiing
a very ufeful t-cy with a maScr that would imme-
fuper nttnd hi» coudtid. For further par
ti;u'.ai> apply to the Printer hereof.
marcn 28. 4For Sale,
Ey Elliston Ss* John Perot, i
No- 41, North IVtter Street, c
I.ondon particular Madeira Wine, in pipes and
quart r calks, 4 years old and fit for immediate use. J
Inferior do.
A few hale* Allibad Cosies
Ba< danna Handkerchiefs
Sail Canvalt, No. i,top
A few bags of Juniper Berries
A pr.rcel of Soal Leather, and
A few boxes of China.
march 3 tu&f 4 w
Wanted,
An adive, cleanly, industrious woman to cook
a/id .So the business of the kitchen. Such a one
will be allowed good wages, and no other need ap
ply.—Enquire of the Printer.
February 7 §_
Notice is hereby given,
THAT application will be made for the renewal
of a Certificate of a Share in the Bank of the
United States, (landing in the name of the Subscri
ber, No. 5004, and dated July 11,1797— the fama
having been loft.
JOHN GRAHAM.
march 5 ..
TO LET,
And may be entered on immediately,
A good dry Store,
Three (lories high, and in an excellent (land for
knllief». Apply to .
Thomas & JeJhua FiHer, 1
march J. $ No. j. Dock-ftreet^
Wanted to live in the Country,
About five mi'esfrom this city, (lea
day Man who understands gardening and the
rnanapement ( of a few acres of land, an 1 would
not objeft to attend a couple of borfes. Such
. a one may meet with liberal wages by applying
at tfce office of this Gazette.
N. B. None need apply but those of unex
ceptionable charters.
March 13. , '•
Custom House,
Diftritt of Pennsylvania, March 6tb t 1797» 1
MERCHANTS of PHILADELPHIA,
who may have any account or knowledge of
the capture or detention of any Ihip or velfel, ear
go, or other property, belonging to citizens of the
United St£tts, reflding within this diftri«£t, by or
under the authority of foreign nations since the
firft day of Oaobcr, 1791, arc particularly reqaet
ted in information thereof, to tV»J Collec
tor of the Port of Philadelphia, asfoonasmay
be convenitnt ; fpccifying the name of the vessel,
the captain's rame, the number or tons, the esti
mated value of the vessel, if Condemned) the esti
mated value of her cargo, or o'thsr property, whi
thi.*r carried, and by, or under the authority of
what nation captured, with futh observations as
may be thought necessary upon the circuiaftances
of each cafe, in order that iiatements thereof may
b? tr : to the Sccretaiy of the rreafury,
who is required to lay the fame before th<i Senate
afid.iioufc ot Representatives of the United States
march 7. ' v t°t
wanted,
A Gardener—a Single Man.
None net-d appfy," unless he can bring good re
commendations.
Enquire at No. 3® Market-street.
mr.rck 17.
"FOR SALE,
By WHARTON Is! LEWIS,
No I*s South Front Street.
A quantity of Tanner's Oil,
4th proof j;tmaicnßuni, "> enritlcd to
111 a.nd adpyoof Brandy, J drawback.
Madeira Wine,
Juniper Berries, &c. &c.
Feb. 9. eodtf
"Valuable Property for Sale.
FO;I SALE,
r T" HAT well known Estate, called SHRBWS-
I EURY -FARM, formerly the residence of j
General John Cadwalader. situate on Sa(Taf[»s Ri
ver, in Rent caunty, Maryland—containing a
boßt 1900 acres of prime LAND, upwards of 500
ef which ar« in woods. The Buildings are all ex
cellent, and consist of a handsome Dwelling House,
two large Earns with Ccw houses. Stables for fifty
horses, a fpscious treading floor under cover, a
granar.', two Overseer's houses, two ran
ges cf two (lory buildings for Negroes (one of
them new and of brick), Corn houses, a Smoak
house , See. &c.—The whole Eflate being nearly
surrounded by water, it-requires but little fencing,
andhas a good Shad and Herringfifhety. It is
conveniently situated fcr both the Philadelphia and
Baltimore markets with two landings on a navi
gable rWer but a (hort fail frem Baltimore. There
is a large Trench, and two large Apple Orchards on
the piemifts; aifc, a variety of excellent fruit 3 of
different kinds. The foil is moflly a rich loom.—
The whole wil! b» fold together, or divided into
si allcr farms (for which the buildings are conven
iently situated) as may suit the purchaser. The
S«o»: on said Farm, consisting of Horses, Cattle,
Sheep, Ac. will also bedifpofedof. For further
particulars apply to Georoe Hastings, on the
prTnifes, or to the fubferiber, in Pbiladelphii.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jvn.
February 24. taw6w
Ba{kenridge—-for sale
IT consists of 910 acres, tlmoft all of which i»
a fine ,ich Meadow, (the residence of the late
K«rl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of 'vyhii.h are bounded on the
Ea.l by the river Pafaiek.
Thrr'' are on it a number of buildings, forming
afquare of nearly three acres—The dwelling houle
is a vary convenient one aod;a fmullexpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard confilis of 150 c finebearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other parts of said
tpa£l near 300 other Apple frees—as also a great
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries ol the
bed and mod delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
ForeftTre»s, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence cf the plafe. Its situation is about 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Mcrrls-Town, and 11 from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watoreJ.
To five trouble, the price i« five pound pr. acre
in ""(b, on delivery of the deeds- Please to en
ouirc of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chefnut treet.
February «odtf
Canal Lottery-—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the 10th
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven DoHcri, as Wm. HI.ACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-ftrect—
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Tm
Pdlur,. where check books are kept lor regiller
ing and examinmg in these, the C-ity of Washing
ton, No U.and Patterfon Lotteries, and informa
tion wh.re tickets may be had in the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N.B. The Wmifsof a Biosr*. inbuyingand
felling all kinds of Public Stotk r.nd Securities,
difcoiating Bills and Nrtes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, «cc. fcc. will be duly attended to,
b y WKi. SLACK-BURN.
November 15. §
THE trrm of Co-p rtnerihip between the sub
scribers, trading under the firm of John Mil
ler, jun. and Co. expire this day, an J by mutual
consent wiH not be renewed* l'he debts and con- r
ccrnsof the fame will be fettled by John MiHer,
Jun. to whom allthofe Indebted to theprrrtnerfhip,
are earrifftly requeued t® make payment to, with
out delay. f
JOHN MILLER, Jun.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
February T9 § f f t
LANDING, f
From on board the Ship Sally, from t
Calcutta, f
AND FOR SA Lfc BY THE SUISCIIIU,
1600 bags prime Sugar,
800 d.. Ginger I
30 bales low priced piece Goods.
John Miller, Jun. j
march t 5 |
FOR SALE, by ]
John Miller, jun.
No. 8, Chefnut-ftreet,
A quantity BENGAL GOODS, ,
AMONGST WHIOa ARB
Gurrahs Mameodics <
Baftas Sanna*
Guzzenas TandaCoffaes |
Guzzies Emertics ,
Blue Cloths Calic.es ,
Palampoors Romall Handkerchiefs |
Amongst them are a great proportion of the ma- (
! nufadtures of Patsa. j
"British Dry Goods, ,
ALSO, I
Forty puncheons of high proof Rum.
February 19 5 ]
Alex. J. Miller & James Davis,
Having entered into partuerfiiip under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller & Co.
INFORM their friend*iti town and country, that 1
tfuy have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South Fr.nt Street, Philadelphia ; wher« .
they now have, and intend kceeping a general af
-1 frjtment of In lia, German, Irijb, French and SrU
Mfl MannfaiSlures for sale, on advantageous terms
for ca& or a (hort create.
Febr|t?.-y 19 . ,
~~ FOR SALE7~
b? the sUbscridiks, No. 21, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges, 1
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Cunfjling of c
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
CofEaes * Ptinjum Cloths
Sanahs Guzzey do.
Humbunps Clurconna Dorea
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmnls
Mamoodys Checks
Maharagongea Pama Hkfs.
Ginghams Mulmuds.
Guzzenas IkjqdannoM
Qurralis Siflsrl'oy
Piniafcoes Choppa RoipaU
Ssieatchya Sooty- (Jo-
Gillie Rortiils Persians of various eol.
Meek Pulicati
too tons SUGAR
lhL PfiPPER.
Willings Elf- Francis.
The Picci Goods
Of the Ganges are no* open to file at that
commodious (tore the north weft corner of
Jfiarket and Fourth-firteu.
Also—A few Boles of Matlrafi Hkfs. of ele
gant patterns and bejt colours.
February 8. d.tf
Frefih l eas.
Jujl Imported, in the Jhip Delaware?
Captain Cooper, from* Canton,
Aftd For Sale, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Compting House, No. 54, Chefaut-ftrtet,
and bv
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon, YoUng
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, assarted ; black and coloured Lute
strings and Sattins, Nankeens, Cassia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
whale-bone sticks.
They have also Ftr Salt,
j Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchief*,
French Carnbricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes,
march 8. §
1 To-morrow will be Landed,
From on board the brig Benjamin Franklin, capt.
Jwies, from Bordeaux,
! Claret of superior quality, viz.
e MEDOC "> Of the vintages of 1790 and 1791,'
LATOUR j in cases
r ALSO,
e WHITE WINE, of the vintage of 1790
FOR SALE BY
PHILIPS, CRAMOND Ut Co.
7. §
JUST RECEIVED,
FROM rO R T-A B-P RIN CI,
, And FOR SALE, ly tie SUBSCRICERS,
c no hhds. Coffee
ioO barrels do.
100 bags do
lio hogfheadsof Muscovado Sugar
80 barrels of do.
40 hog(heads of MolalTes
4 bale* of Cotton
T a hogsheads of Cocoa
J WILLINGS Gf FRANCIS,
e Penn-ftreet.
march 11. §
a Landing from on board the Ihip
Tenneflee, capt. Smith, from Hamburg,
And FOR SALE by the Subscribers,
't 325 pieces Quadruples Silefias
400 do. Platillas
e 106 do. Creas
>7 52 do. do. Ala Morlaix
do. Dowlas
t. 20 do. red striped A rabias
lo co. blue Guingas
100 dozen bordered Handkerchiefs _
• Eric (jf Lewis Bollmann,
h f »3> South Third-ftrtet.
,t ALSO, ON HAND,
y A cafe of printed Muslins and Calicoes
march 11. sßt
? ROSS & SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
e a quantify of Bengal COTTON
Bcrgal SUGAR, in tags and boxes
d Jamaica,
1, St. Vincents, > RUM.
if and Bengal J
>, ,;oo calks RLCF., iad
Apjrcelof ship building REP CEDAR.
O it. 17- §
City Com mi (Hurler's Office,
January 11 tb, 1798.
FOR THEINFORMATION OF THt CITIZENS.
'T'H-E following arrangement is made by the
X fiid comroiffioners, for clcanGng the '
streets, &c.
Dillrift No. 1. —From the north fide of Vine
ftreet,to the south fide ot Mulberry street; t»
be under the fuperintendance of Nicholas Hie ks. ;
2 From the fonth fide of Mulbrry iircet, to
the south fuic of CVefnut ftrreet, to be under the j
fuperuitendance of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut flrcet to 1 v
the nerth fide of Spruce street, to be under the
fuperintendance of Jol'eph ClaypooJe.
,4. From the s;orth fide of Spruce street, to the £
ffiuVh fide of Cedar ftuet, to be under the fu
perintendapce of Hugh Robert®.
jf-V When pumps are out of order south of
Hifch-ftreet, please apply to Thomas Dixey, at the
corner cf Soiath and Fifth-ftrcet*, or Godfrey Gcb
ler, in Fourth, near Chcfnut-ftrcet ; and north of
High street, to lrtxey and Betiaven, in SalTairas- >
flrfet between Sixth and 3-venth-fireets.
Mouse and Lots, in Bordentown. l
r "pO BE SOLD, a handsome two story House, '
A with the Lot on which ii is ereftcd, situat
ed about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
Village of Bordentown. The house is forty
tvyo feet in front, and in neat order. The lot
contains on.t acre, and is one hundred feet on
the main street, aiul extends with the fajjne .
breadth to hack flreet. Also, a large Lot, eon
taining nearly four acres, fepirated frojn the
former by back fti'eet. One third only of the
purchase money will be required upon execut- 1 1
ing a deed, ar.d for the remainder, such crfdit
w II be give* as the purchaser may chufe. This
property will be fold free of all incumbrance*,
and an indisputable title given.
For further particulars enquire either of Dr. '
William Burnes, residing in Bordentown, near
the premises, who will fiiew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON, 1
Conveyancer, No. 43, Mulborry-ftieet.
December z. 3awtf
Boston Glass Manufactory.
HPHE citizens of the United States are hereby
X informed, that the manufacture of Windov/
Giafs is new con\menced at the Glass House in
Bo(lon.
It is needless to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of t})eßort«n Glass, as it isfo well known
| throughout the United States to be in every ref
-1 pe<sl greatly superior to any ever imported Irom
i Europe.
It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and -
n>ay be constantly had by applying to Charles F.
Kupfer, at the Glass House.
Orders from the distant States tobe addressed to
Mr. Samuel Gore, Court-flreet, Boston.
Two or thre«£ j/ood Glass makers ate want
ed at the above works; such as can produce re
commendations for good behavior, niaybefureof
employ, by application to Mr. George L % Lindt, at
the work*. Men without families w ill be pre
ferred. Ho\/ever unacquainted with the method
of r;aking Crown Window Glass, they ifcill meet
yirith ths fame encouragement.
fioflon, January x 6 »/
New-Tor k f February, 1798.
PROPOSALS > y GEO ROE FO RM AN,
FOR PftINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A New and Valnable Work, which has been ex
tant onjy fix months—entitled
PROOFS of aCQNSPIRACY against
all the. Religions and Governments of EU
ROPE, carrietj on in the secret meetings of Free
Masons, Iliuminati, and Reading Societies. Col
lected fpom good authorities,
By JOHN ROBISON, a. m.
Prtfejfvr of Natural Pbihfophy, and Stcrataryto ike
Ifoyal Society qf Edinburgh*
Nam tv* ret agitur paries cum proximus ardet.
THIS work will be put to prefsas soon as
400 fubferibers are obtained, and no money requir
ed until the work is completed.—lt (hall be print
ed with an elegant new type, and on paper of su
perior quality, which will comprise aboyt 400
pages neat o<slavo, hanctfomely bound and lettered
—the price will be one dollar aRd fifty cents.
Those who procure 12 fubferibers, and become
accountable, (hall have a 13th gratis—and the u
sual allowance to booksellers.
The above work comes from the pen of J.
Robifon, of Edinborough, a gentleman in high
eftimatioa in the literary world—the fa As therein
recorded are well substantiated, and thcreafoning
and arguments fhencededuced, while they disco
ver the found judgment penetration of the
writer, are calculaced to amuse as well a* to in
• ftruA. A scene of villainy is developed by the
author fufficient to appal the stoutest heart.—The
danger to be apprehended from secret focietits is
clearly pointed out ; the degeneracy of human na
ture awfully illustrated, and the hazard of every
deviation 'rem the straight path of religion and
as virtue, inconteftibly proved both to the politi
cian and the chrifyian by ftubbom and incontro
i vertable f-i&s.
f4f Subscriptions taken in by G. Farmau, No. 46,
William-Jireet % opposite ibe PoJI-.OJJxcb, and by tlye respec
tive bookfeellers in New-Tort and Philadelphia.
February 38.
January 24, *798
PROPOSALS
By Arondt Van Hook,
Proprietor of the Reading Room ;
For PubKfhing bv Subfcnption,
An Appeal to Impartial Fofterity,
By Madame Roland ;
Wife of the Minister of the Interior in France.
CONDITIONS.
These scarce and very valuable Hiftorieal Me
moirs, (which ran through two London «di
tions in a few months,) will be comprised in i
- vols, oflarn, of 400 pages each.
They will be printed on fine paper ancl a liiw
type, and delivered to Subscribers, neatly bound
and lettered, at 1 dollar and jo cents per vol
- urae—one third of the Subfcnption money tobe
' paid on delivery of the firft volume-—the re
mainder when the work is cempleat.
To Frinters, Bockfellers, and others, who
5 acquire Subscriptions, the ulual allowance will
be made.
.<P* Subscriptions are taken at the Reading
t Room, No. 149, Water street —the Printing
office, 749, Pearl-flreet —and at the dilffcrent
Bookftorcs in New-York- Also, by William
Young, corner rf Second and Chefnut street, md
the Editor of the Gazette of rf»e United St*tes,
Philadelfihia.
As soon as a fufficient number of Subscribers
are obtained, the work will be put to press, and
compleated with the utmost dispatch.
Feb. 20. eodxm
For Sale,
A good situation for a Country Seat,
FORTY acres of land on the Old York Road,
within fight of Gertnantown and about five miles
from the City, the whole being under goed fence,
and rn excellent order as pasture ground.
For further information and terms, apply to
Jonn Elliott Criison, at his office for the
Tale of Real EAites, Conveyancing, &c. N«. 54,
High-flreet.
;dmo. i6th. lawjw
' TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH 1, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN pursuance of the A£l of C#ngrefs pa fled an the Cxth day of July one thousand seven hundred and
ninety-seven, evtitled M An AA laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", and the
A<ft passed on the fifteenth day of Dec««»bcf, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, entitled
" An Ait 10 polfpone for a limited time the commencement of the duti:6 imposed by the iCI enti
tled " An Ail laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from and alter the
firft day of July enf»ing, the fevcral Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be leviad and collec
ted throughout ti*c United States*
For every kin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or (heet or piece of Paper, upon Which (hall b*
written or printed any or either of the instruments or writings lollowing—to wit:
Dh Cti. Mlj
AnJ Certificate of Naturalization, - - - - 5 1
Any Licence to prailice,or Certificate, of the admiflion,enrolment er regiftryof
any Couufellor, Solicitor, Attorney or Proper, in any Court of the
United States, ... . - 10
Provided, th3t a Certificate in any one of the Courts of the United States
for one of the said QflVat, (hall'fo far u relates to the payment of the
duty aforeiaid, ue a fulficient iMlmifTion in all the Court* of the United
States, for each and every of the said offices.
Any Grant c-r Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United States
(except for lamU granted for military fouicts) - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy «£ any fuck grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military services) - 1
Any Chajter-Party, Bottci7iry, or Refpo«d«ntia Bond, - 1
Any Receipt er discharge for of on account of any Legacy left by any Will or »-
ther teflainentary or for any ftiare or part of a personal estate di
vided by force oi any ftatnte o£diftf?buti<ns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Crildien ol ,v,e person deceased, the amount whereof (hall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and- fball not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, - - - - 2 S
When tlie>ainour.t thereof fh.ill exceed the. value of One Hundred Dollars and
(hall not exceed five hundrud dollars, - - 50
And for every further sum. of Five Hundred Dollars, tTie additional sum of 1
Asy Policy of Insurance or inftrttment in Bature thereof, on any (hip, vessel or
good's insured from one difiri<f\ to another in the United States. 2j l
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum foe which
Insurance is made (hall not exceed five hundred dollars, - 5«
When the funj insured Avail exceed five hundred dollars, - 1
Apy Exemplification, of what natwre soever, that (kail pass the seal of any
Court, other than such as it may be'the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furnifh for the use of the United States or some particular (lite, - 50
Any Bond, bill fmgle or perna!, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promiftory
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or with the United States or any state, or for their
uferefpeftively, ....-- 1
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars ajid not exceeding five hundred dollarst 15
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 50
And if above one thousand dollars, - - - 75
Prtvided, that ii any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or notes (ball be fiibjeil to only two fifth parts of the duty
afciefaid —viz. -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, 4
If above ope hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollai s, 10
If above siva hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 10
If abo.ve one thoufend dollars, - 30
Any Notes issued by the banks now eftablilhed, or that may hereafter be eftab
liflved within the United States, other than the not»s of such of the said Banks
as (hall agree to an annual composition, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders relpeilively, according to
the following scale. •
On all notes not excecdieg fifty dollars, for each dollar, - - •
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, 50
tn all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding fire hundred
dollars, - - * " 1
On all notes above five hundred dollars, - t
Any Protejt or olher Notarial aft, - - " *5
Any Letter of Attorney, except'for an invalid pension, or to obtain orfell War
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
perfnrmet} in the late war, - - - »5
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Cuftomsor duties, for left than
five hundred dollars, - 1
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, a
For more than two thousand dollars, - 3
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
If from one diOriS to another diftri«Sl of the United States, not being 111 the
fame State, - - - " to
If from the United States to any foreign port or place, - *5
A?»y Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or madt in any
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
rent or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share in any Insurance Company, of a (hare in the Bank of
the United States, or of any State; or other Bank,
If above twenty dollars and not one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars, ...
If under twenty dollars, at tha rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
11.
The duties aforefaid will be collected and received by the Supcrvifors, Infpeflors aud other Officer*
of Infpefl-ion, ia the several Diftrifts, Survey* and Utvifions of the United States, asi by such other
persons as (hall from t* time be fpesially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diftridls for
that purpose.
"I,
The Supetvifers of the several Diftridls will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and as soon ss
may be praSicable, mark or ftcmp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcclsof Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of the said duties ; Oy
stamped vellum, parchment and paper b.ay at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rates prefcribtd by law, by application to any Supervilor, Infpitilor, Officer of Infpeition,
or other pqtfou appointed for the diftributioa of Stamps, by the Supervisors df Diftrids.
Glf'EN under my Hand, at Philadelphia
the day and year aLm>cmcntioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secretary of the Trtajury.
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands aga,inft
t{ie estate of Willam FlsewtooU, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are requeftefl to exhibit their accounts,
properly attested ; and thole who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, to
January 4. dtf
Just Publiflied,
And to be had at the Book-stores of Meflrs. Dob
son, Campbell, Young and Okmrod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caules and Cure of Remitting ®r Bilious
Fevers.
To "which is annexe
AN ABSTRACT of the opinion* and pra&iceof
different authors: and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interesting fails and reflexions relative to
the Synochus I&eroidts, or bellow Fever, which
at different periods, in several of the seaport
towns of the tfnired States of America.
by.WILLIAM CURHIE,
Felow of the Philadelphia College of PhyOcians,
and Member of the American Philolophical So
ciety. l-—*3P*§
For sale or to be let on ground
rent, (
A valuabLet of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth ftreetc, fronting the State-
Hcufe square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, andune huujred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are 4t
present two small two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenement? thereon.
Mfo, for Sate,
Two three story Brick H6ufes
With convenient Cores, wharf, he. fiuateori
Water street, between Mulberry an-1 Saflafias
Streetc, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-fottr feet, andcontaining that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, tlioi widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
have the convenience of a public alley adjoin
ing »n the north fide, and area very defirablefit
uation for a a merchant, flour faflor, or others
who may have pccaflon for storage of goods.
This property will be fold on very reasonable
ttrms for rafti. For further information apply
to the printer.
July 31. m&wtf
Salifkury Estate.
THE Subscriber, propoGng to contrad hit bu(s
- offers this Estate for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Borcing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of stones ; also a good Forge, all
in perfeft repair, as aie all the Water Work# connc£t
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnace*
were lately built for the purpose of calling Cannon
for this State. —There are abou' two thousand acre#
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the best Kay and
Pasture. The Cannon lately manufactured there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
fuper»O r to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not oue of sixty-nine guns
lately made, although some of the 34 were bored
into 32 pounders, have filled on proving. The situ
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufacture, and a place of arms lying in the ftatc
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from fcveral land *
ingson the Hud Ton's river, and having every advan
tage that can rcfuit from 'a plenty of water ifluing
fiom a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufoful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all the flock and utenGls, and have poflcfiion
oner before the firft of June next, and preparation
may be made in the mean ui me for going into Blast im*
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, &.c. See. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in PhiladeU
phiat David Brooks, Esq. one of the Reprefentauves
in Congress for this State ; Mr, David Wateiman, oq
tbepr*:n>ifcs, or to the proprietor in New-York,
WLLLI/IM NEIUOX*
Dee. 1. 3awtf
AO TICE.
A ManufaSsry of yellow and del/) ware,
Such as never was in this Country before, has been
been lately ere&cd at Tivoii, Red Hook Landing,
onthe East Bank of Hudson's River, slate of Ne>.J
York, where any article of vaiious forts arid fhapca
may be executed, as well a* earthcrn stoves upon a
new con/liudiou. that fav»{ 4hree founts of the fuel
commonly used in cast iron iloves or open cbynanics;
they are bdides very whotlefome and orpameftal, by
applyineto
J. MOUCHET,
Wanted a fkillful hand to attend to the baking and
glaring part of the said ware. Generous appoint*
menu will be given. Apply as above, or to
DAVID BROOKS, Esq.
rfo. 71 South sth Street,
Feb. 19. eod4W
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HQU3E, in or near
the icntreof th« city—for which a generous
rent will he given; to be taken ier a year, or on
more for a lungir t«un. Inquire of th« Printer.
Oft. 17. cots