/
Iftliiift Philadelph la Daily Advertiser.
■ " '*''* ■ * ' • "■ ■ i
By John Fen no, N O, 119 Cbefnnt Street.
Number 1773.J PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, MAT 17,1798. [VOLUME XIII.
7£TS7" ARRIVED,
In tke brig Gay ofo, capt.Gingham, from St. Martins
A quantity of SALT,
of »i> exccdlrnt <juality
A few "grace Porter Bottle*, new
And twenty calks Vinegsr
•' ■flirTf rr**~ Ami the said
.xnt BRIG '
Also, FOR SALE,
Enquire of
Jehu Hollingfioorth & Co.
No 21, Little lA'ater ilrott, South,
april 20. §_
1« or Sale,at the Stores of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
195 casks of nail? afiorted
20 bales of fail canvass, from No. I to 8
5 3 ca(ks yellow ochre
1 5 tierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 cloz» each
London particular ) Made;ra wine ,
India market
Tenenffe do. in hogiheads and pipes
Old Port do. in hhds.
Empty Cl»rct bottles
6 caf?s of Ginghams, Dimittfs, MuHincti &c.
aflorted for the Weft-India market
4, 10, and 9 inch cablesand to coilsbf cordage
Writing ii. tes, mk ftanis and presses
20 purcheons Jamaica rujti
I bale seaming twine
160 bundle* (heating paper
TWE BUICS
AMAZON.;
JSSM For Sale, or Charter.
Nick/in & Griffith.
April 7 tuthif.tf
Sugar
V>-> Hides
Will be landed to morrow, at Willingsand Fran
cis's wharf, from on hoard the brig Adive, Will
iam Williams, master.
And may take in immedi
«*S9iflßtt2aw' ately after discharged.
Apply to
Jehu Hollingfivorth & Co.
march 30.
For Hamburgh,
THE SHIP
Dominick Terry,
J°hn Fleming, Majkr,
M*SG<sK?S3Sß3£JHavinggreatpartofher cargo en
gagsd.—For freight apply to
JeJfe {& Robert Wain.
February 26 <
GOODS
Forwarded to BAL TIM ORE,
OVER LAND
Via Elkton, on reasonable terms—by
Levi Hollingfivorth (if Son.
may 14 eod6t
bi- KK.
ICO Bsrrels i of B. ef of b«fl quality, piir
jo half Barrels J up with carefor long voyages.
100 Barrels of Conne&icnt Pork.
cO Barrels of Connecticut Tongues.
WINES.
35 Pipes of Madeira Wine
30 Pipes of Port
30 half casks of Sherry
30 Casks of Lisbon
300 Cases of French Claret, of excellent
quality.
800 Barrels of Scraped FLOUR,
joo Barrels of Condemned, and
20 Boxes of best Durham Muflard.
For Sale by
John Skyrin,
Landenberger's Wharf.
may 4 eodtt
A Country Seat.
TO BS LET for the fummcr foafon or by the
year, the greater part of a large House, in
a high, healthy situation, above the eight mile
stone, on the Gvrmantown road (occupied only by
a newly married couple)—with /tabling and con
venience for keeping a carriage. For further par
ticulars, enquire of Caspar it. Haines, in Ger
maafown, or the fubfcribeT, on the premises.
HEZEKJAH HUNTSMAN.'
may I. 2aw3w
A Premium of 400 Dollars
WILL be paid by the Bank of Pcnnfylva
nia, for such Plan of a Banking House,
accompanied with feSions and elevations, as may
be approved of by the Direfiors. The building is
not intended to exceed 60 feet front, or 100 feet
in depth, and to be so planned a» to admit of its
being made fire proo». It is requested that the
plans may be fen't- '.he Cafliier ot the Bank, pre
vious to the firft of June next.
April 19. tuthstl Je
For Sale,
BYTHE SUBSCRIBER, NO- 10, EH«S NU "» STRtIT,
11 Casks of Carolina Indigo,
Which will fce fol'i on reasonable terms on a £kor
credit.
Robert Henderfon.
April 2 mwft»4w
VIRGINIA TOBACCO.
Walker & Kennedy,
No. 73, South Front -fired.
HAVE FOR SALE,
s oHogfheads Virginia Toba«co,of Frederickf
burg and Falmouth Infpetflions.
-oHogfheads ditto of Richmond infptflion.
may 8.
fresh TEAS.
MR. CHALK,
INFORMS his Friends and the Public, that he
has opened a
tea warehouse
At his Circulating Library, Wo. 75 North Third
street, where he will be happy to execute their
Orders for fine-flavoured
IMPERIAL, HYSON, -)
YOUNG HYiON,, Q TEA"' <
hyson-skin. I
SOUCHONG #c BCHEA ;
On' rnodersre tenns.
Coffee. Choctfltte And Loaf Sngrr.'
april 13. -
* ♦
United States, / *■
s Pennsylvania Di/lnti. J
IN purfnance of a writ to me dfre<9cd frrm the
Hpgwrable Richard Peters, EftJ Judge of the
DiftriA Court of the United States, in nil 1 for
the Pcnnfylvar h DiflriS, will be expofe>: to pub
lic falc at. the Merchants' Co!fe»-Hottfcij> the City
ol Philadelphia on Wedflefday !be of May
ii l>ant,*t 1 o'clock in th= ovtiiirJ, _
\ FafV failing bnilt vessel, not
JI2SI33ShT-. £\ year eld, butthen 63
tons, and can be sent to sea witJ« a trifling exptnee;
. with all and lingular tVe Tack|<i, Apparel and Fur
_ nituie, a» they now are—The said Schooner hav
ing been libelled, prosecuted against and condemn
ed for the payirmt of mariners wages, &c.
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marshal.
Marihal's Oftice, - )
May 16, 1798. j
N. B. The inventory may be fe»n at my office.
Sale of Furniture.
ON Monday next, the sift of at nine
o'clock in the morning at No. 19 Sovth
Fnurth-ftreet, between Chefnut and Market
ftreets, will be fold a large aflbrtment of
e Household & Kitchen Furniture.
Confiding of mahogany I'quare and rc-und end
dining tables—breakfaft and cJfd tables—fofas
and mahogany chairs—windsor chairs with and
without (luffed feats—bureaus—chefl of draw
ers—mahogany crib and cradle—Bureau with
ferretary drawer and wardrobe—delk and book
case—two easy c|iairs —gilt an<l plain looking
glafies—pi floras—brafs andirons—an excellent
ro.ifting jack with weights and spits complete.
With a variety of other articles nearly new and
in gOod-preffrvation ; the property of two fam
ilies about to remove from this citv.
CONNRLLT Co. au&ifflrecrj.
may 16 " dts
" Colledtors Oifice,
Ph.ladelphia, May 15, 1798.
FOR SALK AT FUBLIC AUCHON,
At'the Custom House, on Friday, the fifteenth
) of June, 1798, the following Merchandize,
which renwin in the Custom House Stores more
than nine months, unclaimed by the owners or
consignees thersof.
(X H) eight half faggots of Steel
(T 0) ao2 one bale Girthweb
(T L) a quantity of Steel
one cafe Lamps
C & C one cafe Bobbin'
(W) one small box Medicine
AB 203 one matted cafe Dutch Eooks
I & C one keg Herrings
(W) one faiall box of samples of Buttons
I a 3 three bales Girth web
L V H] ao® one ditto ditto
[N] 200 one ditto ditto
(No nwrk) eight jars Olives
(ditto) one bundle Slates
[L S"] one fraall box Locks <3ts
Will be fold for Cash,
At eight o'clock on the Evening of MQNQAY
tie eleventh day of June next, at the M*r
chants' Coffee house, in Philadelphia, if
" pri.
THE POLtOWIMC TRACTS OF
Valuable patented LAND,
In-the county of Glynn, in the state of Georgia,
and the counties of Barb and Randolph in the
ftite of Virginia,
7000 acres at the hcadof St. Simon's Sound and
confluence of Turtle and Alatamahi rivers, ad
joining thecommoni of the town of Brbnfwick.
41000 acres 011 the Great Sstilla and on the ht-nd
waters of the Little Satiila, adjoining lands of
Wm M'lnrofli, JohnHowell, & FerdinandO'Neal.
25000 icres on Great Satiila, aojoiuiog lands of
Freeman Lewis and John Howell.
44000 acre« iir Bath county, on both fides of
Green Briar Rivsr, adjoining lands ot Jacob War
rick, Daniel M'Cttlhim and |ohnDiliey, including
3000 acres of prior furvcys.
41000 acres in Bath county, on the east fide of
Cowpa(jure River, and on both fides of the wag
gon road leading from the warm fpringsto Staun
ton, including 5000 acres of prior surveys
40000 acres in the county of Randolph, -on Bu
chanan River, adjoining lands of Thomas Wilson,
and including 4588 acres prior surveys. -
30000 acres in Bath county, on the east fide of
Cowpafture River, on the waters as said river, and
ot Calfpafture River, adjoining lands of Joseph
Grubb, and induping 5000 acres prior surveys.
The Georgia lands will be fold in tracts of one
tihoufand acres each, the others in the quantities
and tra&s abova described.
Persons defirous*to examine the titles and drafts
of tlfc above mentioned land, will call for that
purpose on Bsnjamin R. Morgan, at No. 41,
Arch street ; proposals of purchase may be made
to either of the fubferibers
T. FITZmONS,
No. —, Chefnut street.
B. R. MORGAN,
No. 4r, Arch street.
JEREMIAH PARKER,
No. 9, North Eighth street.
may 14. dts
ADVERTISEMENT.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, that by virtue
of a Decree of the Chancellor, will be fold
at Public Auction, at Snowhill, Maryland, on
rHe firft Friday in June next, part of a trait of
Land called STRUGGLE, lying in Worceftercotm
ty, and all the reft of the Real Estate oi Joshua
Townfend, deceased, for the payment of his debts.
There will be given nine months credit for the one
half of the purchase money, and fifteen,months
credit for the other half; the purchaser or purcha
sers giving bond with security for the fame, on in
terell, from the day of £ale.—All creditors of the
fa ; d Joshua Townfend are also again notified to
produce their claims, with the vouchers thereof,
to the Chancellor, within fix months from the 22d
day of December lall, that being the day of the
firft sale.
WILLIAM WHITTINGTON, Trnftee.
may 14.
Real Jtltate for Sale.
AT the Merchant's Coffee House on Monday
evening the twenty-firft instant, will be
fold pursuant to an order form the Orphan's
Court. A three story Brick House, twenty-four
feet front on Great Docld-ftreet and forty-two
feet deep ; together with the Lot twenty four
feet by eighty-two feet deep, now in the tenure
of Edward Pole, being part of the estate late of
Rev. Giibrrt '1 . Snowden.deceafed. The terms
will be made Vnown at the time of Sal", by
Isaac Snowden, Admniftrator.
Edward Pole, Auctioneer,
rcay 3. , dxedects
t
A Morning School,
From fix till eight o'clock, is opened at
The Neiv School Room,
r Bick of N». 147, inChefuut Street, for the EJu
„ cation of Boys and Young Men in the En«li(h and
1- French Languages, Writing, Accounts, &c.
T mav 14. iw J. WJTF.RMAW. -
Military Academy.
' 1 s tfE Public are most rerpeftfclly'informed,
t X that a Military Academy is opened in the
. Northern Liberties in the house formerly belong
; ing to John Masters, esq. between the Germjn
•- Town and Frankfort roads, North Secotid
- street continued
Br JOHN BARBER,
Late of the*6oth British regiment of Foot and
'• afTiftant Engineer te the Army aJling in the
. Weft-Indies. >
Where gentlemen will be taught the manual
'• Exercise and made completely acquainted with
j all the duties of officers,
I ficers and private soldiers in camp, garrison and
j Quarters; the forms of regimental and field re
e turns, detachments, rosters &c. &c also the
h art of drawing plans, feiSions and geometrical
" elevations, the elements of tactics, gu»nery and
fortification.—A fubfeription lift is left at the
bar of the City-Tavern, where the terms and
j the outlines of the proposed regulations may be
, seen. The fitnation is extremely well adapted
j • to the undertaking and eight acres of ground are
.. set apart for the purpol'e.
N. 3. Gentlemen from the Cbnstry boarded
in the house if required.
■j' may 10. diw2»wim
Military Colours.
A At C. GULLAGER's
Portrait and Ornamental Painting Rooms,
No. 50, south Fourth, next to Cbe/iMir street,
oppoUte the Friend*' MeeWnjfO ».
PAINTING on silks for Military and other or
namental purposes (in a manner peculiar to
himfelf) durable, not to be injured by the weather,
which for elegance of design, truth an4,beauty of
h colouring, neatness and masterly exertion, has
■ t not been equalled by George Rutter and Co.
FLAGS and DRUMS
r Furnished with all polliMe dispatch, on the most
reasonable terms.
Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck
ets, Cornices, &c. &c. executed in stile (not that
superb stile of modern elegance peculiar to G. R.)
but in a workman like manner, peculiar to an ar
'tift master of h'is pfofeflion.
Mr. Gulla*:er, from a number of year's expe
rience in Europe and this country, flatters himfelf
that profcflional talehts, punctuality, and reason
able demands, will me«t the entire approbation of
those gentlemen who willpleafe to CjII at his Paint
ing Rooms. §6\v may 5.
NOTICE.
P. S. Gentlemen in town and
country, wishing for a supply of Colours and
Drums, painted in a maflerly manne*, will no
doubt feel themselves obliged for the kind caution
given by George Rutter and Co. not to trust feff
flattering advertisements, but examine the work
executed by both parties One view will fatif
fy where^ the r .ve tbo fpoil
dilcover the requisites for the Cuntra-SHng talents
of Henry Frailey, at Germantown. may 10.
, Military Colours,
PAINTED ON SILK— by
1 George Rutter Co,
Portrait and Ornamental Painters,
IN a stile which will endure the hardships of the
weather without injury, and which for neatness
and exactitude of colouring cannot be furpafled in
this,eijy.
, ' FLAGS and DRUMS
.Turnifhed with dispatch, 011 the-moft moderate
rerms.
Portraits, Ornamental Paintings, Signs,
fire-hncken, &c. acoomplifhe-l in that superb stile
of modern elegance, which, Mr. Rnrter »ledgc»
himfelf from 20 years experience iu this city will
meet the entire approbatiou of hi* friends ani the
public.
In the Military Line,
A variety of specimen's may be seen at their
Painting Room, Norris'sCourt, back of the Naw
Library.
may 3 d6w
NOTICE.
HAVING observed an advertifemert of C.
Gullager, in terms derogatory of our pro-
abilities, we have to request the public
not to be imposed upon by foreign artifls ; but to
decide upon the merits of «ach by a codiparifon ot
the work executed by both, as it is a mode almost
univcrfally adopted by them to invabdate the ta
lents of ellablifhed artists, with a view of deceiv
ing the public, and engrossing that business which
their profefiional knowledge in no wife entitles
them to. Well knowing that public opinion must
govern, we flatter ourselves that the work execut
ed by us will convince them of our great superio
rity over Mr. Gullager in every branch of por
trait and ornamental painting, and shew thenecef
fity of judging for themselves.
N. B. In future no attention will be paid to thj
felf-flattering advertisements of Mr G.
Any person wilhing a supply of FLAGS and
DRUMS will please apply toGtO. Rutter and
Co. Norris' Court, or Henry Frailey, GcrmaE
ln"'n. §6w may 8.
A Country Seat to Let.
NEAR the Frankford road, about four and a
half miles from Philadelphia— the situation
remarkably pleasant and healthy. Immediate
pofTefiion may be had Apply at No. 144
South Second Street.
may 4 3tawtf
New Tea Warehouse.
No. 39, South Front Street,
opposite PosT-orncE.
THE Sabfcriber refpo&Hilly acquaintsherfriends
and the public, that she has opened a Store for
the faleiof all kinds of t*as, imported in the late
arrivals at Bollon and Philadelphia, (as under) and
which she is determined tofsll on reasonable terms.
It will be hcrcontlantendeavour to give fatisfaihon
to those who pfcafe to favor her with their custom.
Country stores will fiad it their advantage to deal
wi h her, as (lie can at a moment's notice |flort
them any quantity wanted.and will allowareafon
able credit on approved notes.
Imperial, Hyl'on, Young Hyson, Souchong,
Hyson Skin, and Bohea—Vlfo, Coffee and Loaf
Sugar for sale.
Sarah Eaton.
A P r il U s&th <sw
Schuylkill Permai Bridge.
THE Subscribers being the fix persons firft named
in the Letters Patent, flliied by ifoe Governor
of this Commonweal h> by virtue of the Aft of (Ten
era! A&mb!y ®/, the i6(h uir. for ineorpora ing the
Company —hereby give notice agreeaUe t6 the $d
fiction of (tie said law, that they havo and
hereby fcq-icft a meeting of the fubfe/ibers at tVie
State House in the City of <?|i tb-thjrty
firft day of this inftahf May, at ten <&°fciock m
forenor»n, for the purposes rrientioned in the said 3d
fettijn, which is hereafter published for the inform
ation of the Stockholders.
Richard Peters,
John Perot t,
Matthew M'Connelly
William Sbe (iff,
George Bickfjam>
William Nichols.
Philadelphia, if! May, 1798,
Se£lion 3; And be it father cizßedbj the authority
aforejaidy That the fix Persons frft named in the Let
ters Patent, lhall as soon as conveniently may be .as*
ter fealingthe fame, give notice in two or more pub
licJNews Papers in Philadelphia, whereof fiiall
be in the German Language of a time and place by
tbem to be appointed, no: left than thirty days from
the time of ifTuing the firft notice, at which time and
place the said fubfcribefs (hall proceed to organize the
said Corporation and lhall choose by a majority of
votes of the said fubfcribe»s by ballot, to be delivered
in Person or by Proxy, duly authorized—one Prcfi
dent, twelve DiVcftors, one Treafuier, and such other
officers as thev ftlall think neceffjp/y to condu& the bu
firefsol the said Compan v.for one year, and until o
"her officers shall bcchofon, and may make such bye
laws, rules, orders and regulations, not incontinent
with the laws of this Commonwe Ith, as (hall b6 ne
ccflfary for the well ordering the affairs of the faifl com
pany : Provided always, that no person shall
more than fifty votes at any cleftion or in determining
any queft' oo arifttg a* such meetings whatever num
ber of ftiares he or (h- be enitlcd to, and thrt each
person (fcaH be entitled to one vote for every (hare
bv him or fyfcr hslfl nder th* said number.
' ~A~ PerlcHi ~
Properly qualified, by applying at the Office of
this Gazette, may meet with a Situation as a
School Master,
In a Country-Town, within a day's ride of Phil
adelphia,
may r.l p *eo3t
TO BE LKT,
And Poffiffion given Immediately.
THAT well known Band called, Small's
tavern, sign of the Black horfeat the east
end of Bedford. This Ituid 19 attended with
many advantages ; there are two houses, the
one stone and the other frame adjoining each
other,, well finifhed and upon a very convenient
plan ; the stabling new and large and a pump at
the door—besides, theri are but two taverns in
the town. The terms and time of leafing will
be made known by application to
Dr. John Anderfon,
of the. tinuri of Bedford.
may 11. iaw6w
The following Certificates of
FUNDED DEBT OF THE UNITED STATES
STANDING on the Books of thetreafury, were
forwarded for London by the (hip William
Penn, Captain Joliah, which hath been captured,
and the Certificates supposed to be loft, viz :
Vgl- nurne of .Rev. .
Etlward C.iddy, of 1 hredrea, in Cornwall,
Great Britain, dated June a, 1797. Certificate
No. 10,07 a.
Soar. i?. Six per Cent. Steels, in the name ef
Edward Home, of Bevismouht, Hants, Great
Britain, date*! May 30, 1797. No. 15196.
3610. 50. Deferred Debt, in the namp of Will
iam Manning, of Ormfby, in the county of Nor
folk, in England, dated July 10, 1797. No
1011)9.
aoiß.t. 71. Three per Cent. S-i»:k, in the name I
of Jannet Mathew, of Upper Seymour fireet,
London, Widow, dated Ovlober 31 1797. No.
11820.
For the renewal of thrabdve Certificates, ap
' plication is intended to be made at the f.id office of
jhe Treasury of the United Statss, —and all per
sons concerned aredefired to takj notice.
, ALSO —IN THE SAME VESSEL,
Fifteen fliares Storkof the Bank of UaitedStates in
thenanie of William Manning,of Ormfby, crtnn
ty oi Norfolk, England, viz. Three Certificates
for five (hares each, dated January i, r'97.
No. 2598 a, 25083, 25984.
For the renewal of w'lich,application is meant to
be made to the said Bank of the United State*,
and all persons concerned therein arc defited to
take notice.
|- _ J'N. VAUGHAN.
| Philadelphia, may 4. .
The following Certificates of Shares
IN the North American Land Company, (landing
on the Books of said Company in the name of
Daniel Lifter, of Hackney, in the county of-Mid
illeftx, England—viz. No. ai?i, representing
'3096 to 13105, ten (hares—No. 8150—13066 to
1 3°75> ten (hares—No. a 149 1305 6'to 13065,
ten (hares—No. 2148 —1150910 Hsiß,ten (hares
No. at 47 —1J471 to 11480 —Amounting to
Forty Shares, were forwarded for London by the
(hp William Penn, which having been captured,
laid certificates are supposed to be loll; for the re'
newal ef which, applicnjion will be made to the
Board of th*; said company,
Daniel Neal Lifter.
ma T 1 *d6\v
The Co-partnership of the Subscribers,
TRADING UNDER THE FIRM OF
Joseph Davidson Ess Co.
IS this day dissolved by mutual consent, allthofe
having claims against said firm, are desired to
render th.ir accounts, and those indebted to make
payment to Joseph Davidfon, who is duly autho
rised tafettle the affairs of -.he concern.
JOSEPH J. MILLER.
JOSEPH DAVIDSON.
N. B. The Stores at the cornet; «f Market and
Fourth Streets are now to be let—Enquire ol lo
feph Davidion.
A P ril * 6 w&sim
FOR SALE.
SEVERAL very elpgant Situations for Sum
mer Retreats, three and a half miles from
the Court House, and on the Frankford Kojd ;
the lots will be made tofu t the j.urvhafers.—
Theife situations are conlidered in point of feealrh
beauty and elegance, equal to any r.ejrthe city,
and the road known to be Fafe and good at all
seasons of the year. The title indisputable— A .
plan of the grounds is in the hands of the sub
scriber, who will make known the terms on ap
plication to him at his office No. i 24 South
Fourth Strcc. ,
auraiiam sbOSMAXEX.
mi Y V. ,tawtf
JUST RECEIVED,
FROM PORT-AU PR'lNCfj
Ani FOR SALE, by the SUBSCRIC
110 hhds. Coffee
46 tierces da.
100 barrels do.
100 bags do.
•XIO hogfUeads. of M ofcovado Sugar
80 barrels o< dp. »
40 hogsheads of MoJaffet
i 4 bale- rtf Cotton «
2 hogfheJds of Cocoa
WILLINGS is* FRANCIS,
Penn-ftreet.
march 11. §
FOR SALE, '
by the subscribers, No. 21, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green* commander,fropi Bengal,
Conftjiing of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Coflaes Punjum Cloths
Sarahs Guzzeydo.
Humhums Charconna Dore*
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls
Mamoodys Cherks
Maharagonges Patna Hkfs.
Ginghams Mwlimi! do.
Guzzenas Bamtannoes
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
I Piniafcoe* Choppa Ramals
Sooty do.
Gillie Romals PerQans of various col.
Meek Pulicats
400 tons SUGAR
9®,000 lb. PEPPER
Willings Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of.the Ganges are now open to sale at that
commodious store the norih weft corner of
Market and Fourth-streets.
Also—A few Bales of Madrafs Hkfs- of ele
gant patterns and best Colours.
February 8. c'tf
Ross i$ Simsoiv,
HAVE FOR SALE,
22 bales fu peri or Madrafs blue Cloths
Carolina Indigo, firit quality
A few bales Baftas, Coflaes, and a quantify of
Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
april no 5
. L~andYN~G,~
From on board the Ship Sally, from
Calcutta,
AND FOR SALE BY SUBSCRIBER,
1600 bags prime Sugar,
800 do. Ginger
30 bales low priced piece Goods.
John Miller, Jun.
march 3 5
JUST ARRIVED,
In the (hip Phcenix, capc. Grice, from Amsterdam,
2 boxesSiamoi*. I hhd.Hogs Bridles, ill
3 do. Haarlem Stripes quality
3 do. Checks, No. a 2 do. do. 24 do.
9 do. Sealing Wax 3 do. Glue, and »
""Cram~Cheele"in prime t > chefta firft quality Red
order for exportation Crust
ALSO,
Just Received, via Baltimore, &c.
50 bales brown Ticklenburgs and hempen Linens
10 bales German Oznabrigs
30 bales brown Rolls and Heftins
2J bales Polilh do. suitable for coffee and cottoa
bags
20 bales empty Bags
1 bale bleached Heflans
X package Turkey Yarn
54 pieces vladrafs Handkerchiefs
, 1 «heltTapes, No. 13, 25, &c.
1 package cotton Lindfeys
250 boxes Window Olafj, 7 by 9, 8 by io, 9 hy
11, Joby 12, 14 by 16, 16 by 18, &c.
20 chefis plain and flowered half pint, pint md
quart Tumblers
chefis Looking GlafTes, alTorted
4 large elegant do.
30 travelling Liquor cases
1 chest and 8 barrels Snuff Boxes
400 fides upper and foal Leather
A cargo of prime Mahogany
Several Anchors, from 4 to 12 cwt.
20 pipes old Po't -)
A few quaver calks Sherry/ WMa
60 cases White > WINES
200 boxes Cl-iret 3
80 boxes Capers
300 small boxes Ruflia Soap
30 tierces Rice
50 casks Roll Brimflone
40 kegs yellow stone Ochre
1$ k-gs Pearl Barley
2 hoglheads Madder «
1 chefi allotted Quills
6 hales Writing Paper
10 chefis Slates and Pencils
20 trunks Mens" and Womcns' Shoes
bo Silver Watches
1 hhd Coffee Mills
2 do fifhing and blocking Twine
2 chefis Nuremberg toys
A few Demijohns
A quan ity of stone pickling Pots
4 boxes of EnghHi Chariot and Chariot Harneft,
with plated ornaments in complete fettsfor 4 4
or 6 horses.also Whips, Spurs, Sic.
The above Goods are generally entitled to-driw
back, are suitable for the East India market, and
will be fold at reasonable prices and at the usual «
credit, by
PRATT E£ KINTZIKG,
No. 95, North Water nrcet.
April 16.
FOR SALE,
THE whole or on« half of a PLANTATION
nn the river Delaware, between Bui li.„ r ro«
and Bwdenion (two miles from the latter) con
taining about 400 acres ; 60 of which are bottom
meadow, and 100 wood land ; there are 30 seres
of red clover to cut this year (exclusive of mea
dow) but will exceed 50 the next ; and any q „, n .
tity of m inure may be had for the upland from the
meadow without injury.
An orchard of grafted fruit yielding between 60
and 70 hogsheads of excellent cider; a dweljinir
houfe with a barn, stable, granary and other ni
cefTary buil ings go with one part in cafe of a di
vision ; on the other are no improvements, bur hi,
one of the moll elegant fituati,ins for a houfeto be
seen on the river. The la id is of good nudity
suitable for grazing or agriculture, and cor.v-nieMt'
to'markethy land or water. For terms apply t9
the owner on the premises.
Thoma: St- John.
* > todtfLAWS Of tutlj II El) STATES.
Fifth Congress of thrUifited States;
AT THE SECOND SESSION,
Begun and heH at the City of Philadelphia,
in the State of Pemifylvania, on Mon
day, the thirteenth of November,
one thousand seven hundred
and ninety seven.
AN ACT
To revive and continue in force, the AS res
peß'ing the compensation of Clerks ; and for
other purport.
Sec. I.Tl E r it enaded by the Senate and
. J House of Representatives of the
United States of America, in Congress affcm
lled, That the aft parted on the 'thirteenth
day of May, one thousand seven hundred
and ninety-fix, intituled "an to regu
late the compensation of clerks" be and
the fame hereby is revived and continued in
force, until the firft d<y of JanuaTy next-
Sec. 2. And be it further enaSed, That
to the asrgiegate of compensation for clerks
in the present year, as fixed, piirfnant to
the aforefaid aft, there shall be added, du
ring the present year, the following sum ,
to wit : In the War Department, one thou
sand fix hundr d dollars, forfuch additional
clerks,, an ! in such proportions, as the Se
cretary of that Department shall think fit.
In the Treasury Department, >hree thou
sand dollars, for enabling the Comptroller
and Auditor to employ such clerks as may
be necessary in adjuftingand fettling the ac
counts which originated under the govern
ment of the United States, prior to the,
fourth day of March, one thousand seven
hundred and eighty-nine.
Sec. 3. And be it further enacted, That
the Turn of one hundred dollars be allowed
and pa'd, for the year one thousand seven
hundred and ninety-eight, to each of the
principal and engrossing clerks in the office
of tbe Secretary of the Senate, and of the
Clerk of the House of Representatives;
also, the like sum to the Serjeant at Arms
of jhe House of Representatives, and to
eSch of the door-keepers and assistant door
keepers of the two Houses of Congress, in
addition to the compensation heretofore al
lowed them by 1 \r.
Sec • 4 And be it further cna3ed, That
the aforefaid sums, together with the sum
of two hundred dollars additional allowance
for a clerk in the Mint, granted by the a
forefa d aft, shall be paid out of the sum of
fix hundred thousand dollars, reserved.by
the ad," making provision for the debt of
the United States."
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
TH : JEFFERSON,
Vice Prefdentof the United States,
and Prejident of the Senate.
Approved, May 14, 1798.
JOHN ADAMS,
Prejident of the United States.
AN ACT
For the relief of William Imlay.
BE it enaded hy the Senate and House of
Repref ntatives of the United States of
America hi Congress afftmbled, That the ac
counting officers of the Treasury, be and
they are hereby authorized and direfted, to
liquidate and fettle the claim of William Im
lay, Elq. Commissioner of Loans for the
State fConnefticut, forextraordinary clerk
hire, in his office, from the firft day of
April, one thousand seven hundred and
ninety-fiv# to the 31ft of March, one thou
sand seven hundred and ninety-fix, in ma
king transfers <*f the Stock {landing to the
credit of the state of onnefticut, to the
creditors of said state, pursuant to .the aft
of Congress of the feennd day of January,
one thousand seven hundred and ninety-five,
and that they allow him therefor, a sum not
exceeding one hundred and fifty-five dollais
and fsventy fix cents.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
TH : JEFFERSON,
Vice President of Ibe United' States,
and President of the Senate,
Approved, Mav 14- 1798.
JOHN ADAMS,
PreHdent of the United States.
Deposited among the Rolls in the Office
of the Secretary of State.
Timothy Pickering,
Secretary of State.
To be fold at Public Vendue,
At No. »51, Market street, on Friday, lßthinft.
at 10 o'clock in the forenoon,
A VAIIET V or
HoufliDld and Kitchen Furniture,
CONSISTING »f Beds, Bedsteads, Chests of
Drawers, Sophat, Dining Tables, Card Ta
ble*, round ends, Chairs, Looking GlafTcs, Hand
Irons, Side Boards, Carpets, patent glass Lamps,
a good roafling Jack, a large Book Cafe with doors
and drawers, &c. See. &c.
ADSO,
Anelegant t»ned patent Piano Forte with ad
ditional keys ard pedal almofl as good =s new.
The above are the property of a family remov
ing to the cornff y, and are all in (jood order.
EDWARD FOX, Avflioneer.
may 14 ) • dtiß
Madeira Wine.
A few pipes of remarkably fine Madeira, fit
for immediate use, and at a redered price—For
sale by > JAMES YARD,
may 1 diw
To be. So Id.,
THE time of 3 smart, a&ive ELACR GIRL,-
near ten years of age, and has upwards of eight
y«ars to serve. Fcr particulars, enquire at Wal
nut corner of Deck Streets, No. 46.
may ii. 3t
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
THURSDAY MAY 3.
DEBATE ON THF A4.11N R!/. L.
(Concluded from \cJUr.lay 3 Gazette. J
Mr. Venable did not wish to (hew any
particular encouragement to foreigners ; but
if persons thought they could live happier
here, than in their own country, he should
not objeft to their making the change.
He could not agree to the amendment.
Stippofe hostility was committed upon the
property of any of our citizens by France,
fnch hostility might Bot be a fufficient cause
for placing all our commercial citizens in
a situation of having their property seized.
Many cafe* might be deemed hostility by
the President which ought not to go to cut
off all communication betwixt the citizens
of the two countries ; in such a cafe if any
of the citizens of France should be taken
np here, it would produce a similar coqduft
towards our citizens in that country, which
would be allowed to be a serious evil.
Mr. Sewall again urged as an objeft ion
to this amendment, the conftitutioßal pow
er of congress to declare war. Th o many
circumstances of insult and aggression, he
allowed had been experienced by this coun
try from a foreign power, which might
have been understood by other nations as
war, and might havi been so considered by
this country ; yet as it is an aft of congress
to declare war, we could not be considered
as at war, until congress declared us to be
in such a state, except war was declared a
gainst us. This provision was not intended
for any particular cafe, but as a general
provision. which might at any time be call
ed forth by proclamation. It should, there
fore, be as well guarded and definite as pos
sible. If the words proposed were introdu
ced* the proposition would be rerdered too
indefinite ; and the President might pro
ceed to fend aliens from this colinjry, and
of course canfe our citizens in a foreign
country to be sent from thence, or to be
imprisoned, and their property eonfifcated,
at a time when congress might not judge it
expedient to go to war. France, said he,
has now done towards the United States
what might be considered as hostility. Snp
pofe we pass a law which calls upon the
President to aft, what ought the President
to dn > Was he to determine the point whe
ther France has au'thorifed hostilities again!!
the United States ? If so, }ie would
dowbtlefs fay she had, and in consequence
every Frenchman in this country will be li
able to be removed out of the country, and
our citizeps who happen to be in France
will be placed in the fame situation. Mr.
S. said, though it might be proper for con
gress to declare this to be the state of the
country, he thought it would be improper
to give the Prefidknt this power. He wish
ed the power of fending persons out of the
country to be confinedjto such cases as were
particularly dangerous, which were includ
ed,in the resolution without this amend
ment. As to foreigners guility of crimes
against the United States, they ought to
be apprehended and punished according to
the ♦viftiug: \ttvri . ttfe "pi-efeiit leg*****..,!
was not pointed at them.
Mr. Otis said, as his colleague had chos
en to call indefinite, hemuft
excuse him When he said he considered the
resolution without it, as trifling and inef
feftual, and argued a timidity which ought
not at this time to be shewn by this coun
try ; and bad he not been thoroughly ac
quainted with the uprightness of intention
and the purity of the motives of his col
league, he should really have doubted whe
ther he was sincerely desirous of exer ing
41l the energies of the country in her de
fence ; but being perfiuded of these, he.
would suppose that he himfelf was wrong
in his conceptions on this occasion, and
make a few observations upon what ground
he formed his opinion.
He believed it would not be proper to
wait until predatory excursions were made
—until the enemy wa3 landed in our coun
try, or until what shall be considered as
threatening or perpetrating invasion appear
ed, before any steps were taken on the fub
jeft now under consideration. He wa3 of
opinion that when an enemy authorised hos
tilities, that was the time to take,up that
crowd of spies and inflammatory agents
which overspread the country, like the lo
custs of Egypt, and who were continually
attacking our liberties. The provision
would doubtless be exercised with discre
tion. There might be Frenchmen in this
city and others (and he doubted not there
were) who were peaceable, well disposed
persons, and against whom it never could be
thought necefTary to exercise this power ;
but there were other persons* not only in
this city, but in others, who have not only
been extremely instrumental in fomenting
hostilities against this country, but also in
alienating the affeftions of our own citizens,
and it was men of this description whom he
wished to remave from the country.
It is proposed by this resolution to give
the the power to
when the country from which they come
shall threaten an invasion. Some believe
that this country is at present threatened
with an invasion and with a ravage of our
coasts, yet others fay that the difpatchei
from ouf envoys only confiflfof unauthoris
ed conventions with X, Y and Z, and
therefore not to be relied upon. Mr. O
thought this a more indefinite power than
that which he proposed to vest in the Pre
sident. His opinion was that something
ought to be done which should strike these
people with terror ; he did not wish to give
them an opportunity of executing any of
their fedicious and malignant purposes ; he
did not desire, in this leafon of danger, to
boggle about flight fotms.nor to pay refpeft
to treaties already abrogated, but to seize
these persons wherever they could be found
carrying on their vile ptirpofc-s. Without this
every ihmg else which h .d been done in the
line of defence, would amount to nothing.
Mr. M'Dowiil fticJ, from the observa
tions of the gentleman jofl fat down, it
would appear that hostilities h d already
Commenced betwixt this country and France.
If this is the cafe, and the house knew it,
why not fay so and make preparations ac
cordingly ? Why pafsafts fitted for a (late
of war, without declaring that that is the
state of the country ? [Mr. Qtis said. if
the gentleman from N. Carolina would bring
forward a proposition of this kind, He should
be ready to vote for it.J Mr. MO. cx
pefted the gentleman was prepared for war,
and therefore that he would have brought
forward a lefolution tft thateffeft
The gentleman from S Carolina {Mr.
Rutledge) had not considered this amend
ment with his usual accuracy, when he said
that the adoption of it would prove an en
couragement to'foreigners to come to this
country. He thought't could not be ve
ry flattering encouragement to foreigners, to
tell them "if you come here, and your
government commits any aft of hostility a
gainst the citizens of this country, you will
be liable to be imprifoncd, or f.nt out of
the country."
But it was said the country swarmed with
spies and seditious persons If this was the
cafe, he (hould be glad if gentlemen would
point them out ; if they could, he should
be as glad as they to take measures against
them. A person in Kentucky had been al
luded to. Under the author ty of Genet, he
believed, some commissions had been iffutd ;
but he did not believe that any had been is
sued since. It was also known that there
had been another minister of another coun
try. who had adopted a similar praftice. He
still remained here, andmiight still be carry
ing on his mischievous schemes. .[The
Speaker said the rcfolution was general.]
It was said that hostilities having been com
mitted on our commerce by France, they
would authorize a war with France (though
Great-Britain had conducted herfelf much
in the fame way, and nothing was said as to
her) and that therefore the President ought
to be empowered to fend all Frenchmen out
of the country, however peaceably they
might be residing here, if he thought pro
per to do so. This he could not consent to
It was too large a power. He {hould there
fore vote against the amendment.
Mr.- Sitgreaves considered this as one of
theeffentialfeaturesof the system of defence
about which Congress had been employed
during the present fefiion, in order to enable |
us to meet the dangers which threaten us.
He believed, that though it might be ex
tremely wife and prudent to enter into regu
lations for securing our peace at all funure
periods, yet it was most particularly their
duty to concert measures of defence and
proteftion in our present exigencies.- He
believed the business of defence would be
very imperfeftly done, if they confined their
operations of defence to land and naval
forces, and seglefted to destroy the canker
worm which is corroding in the heart of the
country. There could be no question on
this fubjeft. It is well understood by every
member of the community. There is no
occasion for fpecific proof that there are a
great number of aliens in this country from
imnoil wiui wnu... i.ave at prcieiu
alarming difference* ; that there are emissa
ries amongst ns, who have not only fomented
our differences with that country, but who
have endeavoured to create divisions amongst
our own citizens. They are, said he, affidu
oufty employed at this moment, and it is
much to be lamented that there exists no
authority to restrain the evil. It was there
fore peculiarly incumbent on Congress to
add to their other measures of defence, such
powers as will protest the country against
this evil. He believed this could not be
effefted without the adoption of some such
principle as that under confidera'tion. If
the power was too limited, the enemy would,
not be met. There could be no difficulty,
Mr. S, said, in point of right. All under
stand the right to which aliens are entitled
by the laws of nations. They are no more
than the rights of hospitality, and this right
varies according as the relation in which the
country from which they come, and that in
which they reside, is peaceable, or other
wise.
We do not owe to the citizens of France
resident in this country (since France had
been mentioned) the fame hofpitalitieswhich
we owe to thofc foreigners who are alien
friends ; though he confeffed there were
rights of hospitality which would not be
done in time of war, as it
refpefts alien merchants, which were pro
vided fcr in this resolution. And except
a person had an aftual agency in defigna
which would endanger the peace of the
country, though he was ordered out of the
country, a free p'affage would be given to
himfelf and effefts ; and if aftua'ily engaged
in defigr.s against the coufitry, there would
be a strong necefiity for restraining the
liberty of any such persons.
It had been well alked, whether we ought
to wait till the enemy landed, before any
measures were taken to remove persons
from the country, who would be ready to
join them by thoufand3, or take advantage
of the knowledge we hare of their hostile
intentions towards us ? He thought there
could be no doubt on the fubjeft. He
knew there were aliens in this country of
valuable charafters, whose acquaintance
ought to be cherished and cultivated.
Such men would be in no danger from the
proposed provision. It was meaHt only to
Operate against faftions and bad men, who
abuse the liberty allowed them of residing in
this country, and these all must fee the
necessity of attending to. France, said he,
will not admit an alien of any description to
reside in her country without a card of hos
pitality, and shall Congress scruple to go
the length of this amendment ? He hoped
not.
Mr. Allen laid, he would move an amend
ment which would fupercede that under
consideration, by making the resolution ex
tend to all aliens in this country. He wiflied
to retain none of the reftraiuts which are in
the present resolution. Nothing but his
rcfpect for the gentleman who made this
repoit (Mr. Sewall) would have prevented
him from fufpefting that there existed some
latent and mischievous design in this busi
ness. The proportion" goes upon the sup
position that none but the citizens of a par
ticular nation can be dangerous to this
country ; whereas be believed that there are
citizens of several ather countries who are
as dangerous, who have dispositions equally
hostile to this country with the French.
He believed more so. He believed the
whole country was aware of this. Mr. A.
alluded to the vast number of naturalizations
which lately took place in this city to sup
port a particular party in a particular elec
tion. It did not appear to him necessary to
have the exercise of this power depend upon
any contingency, such as a threatning of in
| vafion, or war, before it could be exercised.
! He wished the president t haveit atalltimes.
He moved an amendment to this effeft,
which went to enable the President to re
move, at any time, the citizen of any foreign
country whatever, not a citizen, regarding,
the treaties with such countries. If gen
tlemen took a view of the different states of
Europe which had been subdued by the
French, Mr. A said, they would not think
it either wife or prudent to wait for an fn
vafion, or threatened invasion, before this
power was put in execution. Venice,
Switzerland and Rome, have been overcome
by means of the agents of the French nation, ,
at a time when they were in a much less
alarming situation than we are at present ;
and the firft disturbance in thofc countries,
was made the pretext for open hostilities.
This has been the effeft of diplomatic agency,
of emissaries within »nd without, who have
bred quarrels, for the purpose of forming
pretexts for mealures which have led to the
subjugation of those countries. He be
lieved there were citizens in this country,
who would be ready to join a foreign power
in aflifling to subjugate their country.—
What paffcd before our eyes, and every day
offended our ears, were so many proofs of
it. Not many weeks ago open threats were
made to disturb the peaee of the country.
He hoped, therefoje, with all these things
before them, the amendment which he had
proposed would be agreed to.
Mr. Sewall said, being one of the com
mittee who made this report, he supposed
he fell in for a (hare of that censure which
had been so liberally cast upon it by his col
league and the gentleman last up from Con
nefticut. The gentleman from Connefticut
had thought fit to condemn the committee
for not having considered cases which were
not referred to them. It was not referred
to them to consider what France had done
in all other countries with whom (he had had
disputes, or what this country fhonld do
against France; but what should be done
with refpeft to aliens in this country gene
rally. Civil policy regarded aliens in two
lights, viz. alien friends and alien enemies.
He did not contemplate the making of this
country a wall against all aliens whatever ;
or thst no alien should come here without
being fubjeft to an arbitrary authority, such
as is tothe French !*;•—**>---
"irrtßTSnfltente of such a power as shall be
able to place every alien in the country in a
dungeon, was necessary to quiet the fears
and apprehensions of the genMeman from
Connecticut, he should not be willing to
grant it. Indeed, it appeared to him that
the fears and apprehensions of that gentle
man arose from some defeft in his own or
ganization, or difeaie of his body (which
he believed might be better cured by the
physician, than by any thing else) than
from any real giound of alarm.
What, said Mr. S. is to be feared from
the refidene'e of aliens amongst us ? Any
thing to ruin the country ? He acknow
ledged many inconveniences arose from tSia
circumstance, but more from our own un
natural children, who, in the bosom of their
parent, conspired her deftruftion. But did
gentlemen with to increase the evil by faying
that persons born in foreign countries howe
ver regular and orderly their conduft may
be, shall be liable to be imprifoncd, or sent
out of the country, but that citizens of this
country, howeverreprehenfibletheir conduft
should have nothing to fear ? The committee
were not called uponlo report on this point.
He was himfelf of opiniou that snore ought
to be done, and that aliens from any coun ry
(hould be liable to be removed, in cafe of
misbehaviour ? but he did not wi(h to leave
the business wholly withthe President of the
United States, The committee had reported
only in part; they had yet to consider what
steps would be proper to be taken against ali
ens,orcitizens guiltyof criminal proceedings;
but whengentlemen saw the addresses which
were pouring in from all parts of the coun
try, in favour of the measures which had
been purfuedby government, and expreflions
of determination to fuppatt every measure
in defence of their country, was any thing
to be feared from a handful of aliens ? It was
a reproach tothe country to suppose it. If
aliens were found to be guiltyof seditious
praftices, let them be reftrifted ; but not
placed under an arbitrary authority. He ne
ver wilhed to feethegovernment of the coun
try in such a situation, Our situation, said
Mr. S. is not like that of the Direftory of
Franse, whoraone of the Rationsare curling;
wehave, therefore, no laecefiity forthe strong
measures adopted by them. But if gentle
men were determined to arrest every alien in
the country, let them bring forward a reso
lution of that kind ;. but in making regula
tions against alien enemies, let us not sub
jest every foreigner who comes tothis coun
try however well intended he may be, to the
fear of a dungeon or removal. If gentlemen
wished to make the resolutions more gene
ral, and to provide for cases, in which war
was firft declared by this country, though
he had before said he did not think it necess
ary, he had no objeftion to indulge them,
by inserting the words, ■« between which
and the United States there Jhall exijl a decla
redjlate of -war." But unlets the United
States were inclined to affutne the charaft
ef"of the i urks or Arabs, fiich a regula
tion a 9 was recommended by the gentleman
from Conneftfcut could not be adopted.
Mr. Allen had no particular anxiety that the re
solution fltould pais to the extent which he had pro
k a S entUmen d 'd not think it necessary,
he (hould not perfilt i n it. He w a! sorry thr gen
tleman frem Maffachuletls (hould have discovered.
in him any difeifc ot body which was capable of
pv.ng.nre to personal fear. Me believed he pos
sessed as little as mod men. As to the necefli'vof
the mealure which he had proposed, he would
mention two nrcumftances which led him tothiak
it necoffary. A person in this city, who has too
relpedahle a (landing, and; who is doing too
much biifinefs in it, has that ha wilhes
to fee a French army land in this country, and
that he would do all in his power to farther their
lan ling. He had heard nearly the fame thiq front
another quarter. He thought, therefore, Oiat
there ought toexift a power whirl; (hould be able '
to lend such persons out of the country. Not that
he was himfelf either afraid of being assassinated,
ar having the city burnt. But the chairman of the
committee' had laid, that this fuSjeft was yet be
fore them. 1 his h« *iid not know, before the
gentleman said so; for having made.a report upon
the fubjea hefuppofed they had done all they in
tended to d» upon it.
Mr. Dana wa> oppoftd to this amendment. He
thought the provisions of this rcfolution ought to
be msde definite, as it contemplated regulatians
which congref; would be willing to have in exift
| ence at all future tim-s; and though the princi
ples upon which the refidencc of nlieni was regu
j lated : laid down in the law of nation*, as it relate!
to monarchical governments,' yet in this country,
: A f " VCTci^nt y the pee pie is by
the confhtution in cougrefj, these regulations mnft
be fix*d by law. The danger of war with which
the country was threatened had forced the fuSieA
I upon coagref.at rhis time, and this being the cafo,
he was dcfirous of adapting some regulations ot a
permanent nature refpeding it If any ether re
gulations were neccflary with refped to our pre
lent situation with France, hetheught they ought
to be made special and temporary.
Mr. All n withdrew his amendment; when
Mr. Otis's,proportion returned, th« t-uyfiion on
which was put and negatived, 35 to 17'.
Kir. made the motion which heb.*dfug«
gelled, when he was laft'up viz to add the words,
" bet-ween which aad 4be United States there Jhall exijl
a Jiate of ivar."
Mr. Otis hoped tb « motion would not prevail,
25 though; it "Vj&t: isjltiys tlieiofulKtiijn «f
every gooij feature Inch i* at present po(T (Ted ■
for it would prnvaut rii? ex-.rcife of the power in
any other cafe than in a flats of war, an ! as all the
expreliions were future, it fuppofedthat such a state
did hot extft at present. He concerted he set 110
value at all upon any law, unless it was adopted to
the present esigencies-*)f the country. Gentlemen
might talk as they pleased about permanent regu
lations ; he believed they ought to provide a«ainft
thereGdenca of alien enemies exiftmg in thti bosom
of the country, as the root of all the evil which we
are at present experiencing, and he could nut con
c«ive any mode of doi.gthis, hut by applying the
remedy immediately to the evil. Gentlemen talk
about p, declaration of war. No such thing scarce
ly ever piecedes war. War and the declaration of
wa» come together, like thunder and lightning.
Indeed, if France finds (he can enfeeble our coun
cils by refraining to declare war, and that wawilt
take 110 measures of effectual defence until this is
done, it is probable (hs will uot declare it, but
continue to annoy us as at present He hercfore
thought if the fcleft committee had not been ripe
for making a report fully on this fubjetS, they
ought to have delayed it until they were. '
M'r.Sewall explained.
Mr. Sitgreaves fait}, he had fuffei;ed Ho little
lrom frding the difference of opinion whiih exist
ed betwixt the chairman 'of the comm'ittee who
made the report on this fubjeit, and gentlemen who
usually voted with him. He saw ibat difference of
opin<on was essential and radical. He did n»t mean
to go into the fubjecl.but merely to make a pro
ursrafs upon it it
was to add the words, « or Jballdeclare ho/lUity aeaui
the United State,:'
Mr Davis move d apoflponement of thiqucf
tion till to morrow, as he wiflied timpto consider
of it. He had some doubt as to the cohfcitutional
ity ot such a provision.
Mr. Sitgreaves had no obje>9ion to a poflpone
rr.ent, if time was want«d ler eotifideration ; but
he could not fee on what constitutional ground this'
motion could be objected to.
Mr. Gallatin was in favor of the postpone.
ment. He would suggest to his colleague that
part of the eonftitution which might be in the
way of this motion. A diilindtion was made by
it betwixt actual hojlillty and war.
It it had only gone to have made a difference
between declared and adlual war, by striking
out the word declare, it Would have removed
the objeilion. If there be a difference between
3 state of war and a state of atifual hnftihty,
there is also a difference in the relation in which
alien fut'jetfls of a nation with whom we are at
war, and thole of a nation with whom we are
in a fla'eof aiflual hostility If this diftinftion
be coireft, by taming to the 9th feci ion of the
eonftitution, it is found that the migration of
such persons as any ot, the slates shall think pro
per to admit, (hall not be prohibited by Congrefa
prior to the year 1808 He understood it, how
ever, to be a found principle that alien enemies
might be removed, although the emigration of
persons be n« prohibited by the Hates, by a prin
ciple which exifled prior to the eonftitution, and
coeval with the law of nations. The queftios
was, therefore, whether the citizens or fubjedts
of nations in adiual hostility, can be considered
as alien enemies. The term aSual bojlility is
vague in its nature, and wou'dintroduce doubt
as to its true import. He should, therefore, he
in favor cf the postponement, • xcept the mover
would consent to have the word declare ftruclc
out in the way he had mentioned.
The qneftion for a postponement was put and
carried : and the two firll refactions were re
ferred to the feletfl committee, to report a bill
or bills accordingly.
Mr. Pinckney, from thecommittee to whom
was referred the memorial and temortftrande of
the legislature of the flateof Georgia, made i
report. The memorial states that the (late of
Georgia obtained from the creek Indians a eef
fion of the county of Talliffee, bur that the
United Srates, at the treaty of New-York ha;l
eeded it back to the Indians, they therefore pray
compenfatioii. The committee recomilicnds
compensation ts be made. The report was
committed for ThUrfday. Adjourned,
Friday—may 4.
Mr New presented certain refoluiisns of a
meetingof citizens at Tapahannock, in F.ffexcoun
ty, stating that a war with France would produce
injuries couutlefs in number ; that the public knew
of 110 just cause ot war but fclf preservation ; and
that they trull; therefore, that every means will !>«
use» tcpreferve the ceuntry in peace.
Jn motion of Mr. Harper the house took up the.
amendment of the senate to the bill refpefling the
compenfatioii of clerks, which the senate inOli up
on. Mr H. moved to recede from thir difagree
mcnt, but the motion was negatived, 38 to 31 ■
I Mr. Macon then moved to adhere to their difi
-1 greement, which wascarrriei, 4t to 3a.
Mr. Bayard moved that the order of the day on
the resolution from the Senate, granting leave to
Mr. Pinckney,. our late amfcalfador to Great Bri
tain and Spain, to receive certain prefentsfrom
those couirjj on his taking leave. The home ac
cordingly went into a committee of the whole on
the lub]l3, Mr. Dent in the chair. £A lengthy
debate enfafd, which (hall he given jXfje (sa3Ctte.
PHILADELPHIA,
' THURSDAY EVENING, Mat 17.
Yefterdajr, the House of Representatives
of the Urtited States, were engaged, in com
mittee of the whole, in difcufflng Gene
ral Varnum's motion to strike out the third
fefition ot the bill authorizing the President of
the United States to raise a Provisional Army-
The fefilion goes to empower the President if
in hisopipion tlie public interest shall require
it, to accept of any company or companies
of volunteers, either of Artillery, Cavalry,
or Infantry, who may aflociate and offer
themselves for tlie.fervice, who (hall be arm
ed, clothed and equipped, at their own ex
pence, and wh»fe commifiioned officers the
President is hereby authorized to appoint.
The debate on this queflion w#s so long (op
positions being jpade to the committee's ri
sing before the question was taken) as to pro-,
tract the fitting till five o'clock. It was fi
nally negatived 56 to 37. t
In the course of the fitting, Mr. Sewall,
fjom the committee appointed on that part of
the Prelident's Speech which relates to the
protection of Commerce and the Defence of
the Country, laid a refolutionon the table to
the following effect:
" Refolded that the committee for the pxotefli
en of eimmeree, .&c. be authorized to confuler the
danger may rcfult by means of Aliens, or
ether dfajft'clrd ancl feditlnus persons refijmn
•within the United States, and •what measures
ought to he taken for fecunng, or itler-wife re
jlriftin* Jtteh persons, and that they report by bill
or other-wife." x
APPOINTMENT.
Samuel Snow, ps Rhode-Island, Consul
for Canton, in Chiua.
Yesterday thfr (hip Belvidere,
of New-York, capt. Reynolds, 46 days fro™
London ; who failed with tlie fleet, but part
ed company on the fifth day. She is armed
with 12 fix pounders, and on entering the port
fired a federal salute. On the 9th inft. in the
Giitph, the Berv' lere fell in with a French
privateer (loop of u guns, which bore down
upon her until almost within hait, when (he
received a (hot, upon which (lie Hauled her
wind, the Belvidere continuing her fire, which
was re turned by the (loop,and an Englilh brig,
her prize, for a few minutes, (the '(hip bel
videre purfiting the (loop) when the latter
bore off with her consort. Thus has a valu
able (hip, and a v ery rich cargo, been p;e
, served By a few guns and a little resolution
111 her commander!
The Governorhas appointed Dr. James Hall,
formerly of this city, andfate of York-Town,
jg Re fide nt Physician of the port of Philadel
phia, in the room of Dr. James Mtafe, re- .
signed.
The town of Harrifturgh contains fix
hundred taxables. The excellent Address
from that town, publilhed. in yesterday's
Gazette, was the unanimous voice of the
inhabitants, with the exception of-Maclay r
(the author of the infamous motion in the £
Pennsylvania Legislature) and seven others. <:
Such sentiments as that Address contains,
a>e vvsrthy the Bppofition of such charac- "
ters, and acquire additional lustre thertby. "
MR; FENNO,
ITall e"vehin'g~yOtt' infOTteQ an eeimrrs to -
Congress, from the Portsmouth company of 11
grenadiers, Virginia. You will much more
oblige your fubferibers, by informing what
number of persons eompofe that company, n)
their names, country, charafter or cockade,
and of whom those who call themselves offi- 01
csrs their commiifions. In thort, the P :
biography of ihofe persons will be very new
ceflary and ufefnl to . a
A Citizen of tbe United States. cc
To tbe CITIZENS of PHILADELPHIA.
ad
fellow-citizens, 0 f
Unionof sentiment and. joint exertions we f r <
believe to beat this time a« eflentiallynecef- an
ftfry for the preservation of order asd har- so
mony at home, as the repelling aggrelfions te<
from abroad, but apprehend unanimity will n e
not be perfeft, unlefsfufpicionsand jealousies
cease to exist and we become acquainted' be:
with and inotv each other. p 0
As we have ftroiig reasons to believe that to
to us, as Officers of the late Sans Culotte p n
Light Infantry Company of this City, have a b<
been ascribed views and intercfts which we hal
abhor, not being congenial with the 1 liberty
and independence of the United States, we
feel the necessity of thus publicly coming -
forward to make a declaration of the princi
ples with which zvt have been acSbrnted.
Friends to France ftragglingto effeft her To
independence we imbibed that spirit of en
thusiasm in her cause which pervaded the To
breads of a majority of the people of Ame
rica. With ftrang impre'fiions in her favor, ge
cherishing the hope that no period would
arrive when our attachment to her would Ap
have.cause to be weakened, or, that the pre
itrong profeffior.s of friendthip whish the
breathed f<?r thu country would ever cease to 1
to exist, we adopted at that flattering mo- yoi
ment a Uniform, to which was added the tiot
French tri-coburcd feather, and afTumed all
the name or the Sans Culotte Light Infan- the
try Company. This title and this feather, the
having oj late become obnoxious are now at
laid down with more chearfulnefs than when cho
they were taken up, because they have pla- cun
ced us before you in a point of view unfavor- me,
able and unmerited. un( j
Howeverardent ourattachmentstoFrance .rem
might have been at that day, can it' be sup- coll
powd that they are equally so at this, or
that our affe&iong at this important of /
our country, can'in the smallest degree be
weaned from it : And u it not uncandid to
infer that,from the adoption of any name or
jnhgnta peculiar to th« nation, we Ihould
become traitors to our own, or be coalesced nate
with *ny patty ,u this country who would as ar
attempt to violate the sacred rights and pri- of a
vlege, secured to us by the revolution ?
We cloathed ourselves 111 a Military Dress >
with a-determination to guard the Tree of
Liberty planted by our ancestors and nrt
futter its_ root to be shaken, or its f rH ; t A
pluck'd from its boughs ty any defpoiler ft V R '
at home or from abroad. This has been
' our leading principle liitLrrfo, and we hopi
it will not'defeTt ..shut with our 1 ves.
From a view of the very unfriendly difpo
fition which Fratxe, lias, jmjuftrfiably mani
fefttd towards the Unijed' States, and ar
anxiety to remove any unfavourable impref
—— fionj which your minds -may have received
tives with regard to us, we deem it our bounden
:om- duty under such circmnftances, to declare to
rene- you, that wj. have nothing so near at heart
third as the fafety, honor and independence of
rmv t ' lC States, and that we a-e not the
:ntif ®ff° c Utc» of any party at home or devotees
juire to an y nati»n abroad who would wish to
inies create diviGons among us, or offer indigni
alry, tits to America by base ialifiualions or inti
ofFer midating threats.
"ex- a renu n c,a . t!o " of tl>e Nameand Fea
> the t ' ,er • an aTOW fI that we are devoted to
oint. our country, we fubfeibe ourselves
(op- Your faithful Fellow Citizens.
Sri- EDWARD ROBTNSON.
P r °"- DAVID IRVING.
s fl " Philadelphia, May 16, 1798.
l "L, *** We hear that the &bove Company
rtof (ofwhich Mr. Rcbinfon was Captain, and
, Mr. Irving First Lieutenant) is now di'f
,e ot solved. '
le to ,
At a meeting of the Inhabitants of the
rlh ' e Borough of Norfolk* at the Town Hall,
r, or ori Fhurfday the 3d day of May, 1798,
ding for the purpose of taking into confidera
cures tion the propriety of addressing the Prefi- ■
? dent of the United States on the present 1
t bill critical fituntion of the Union
George Efq. wa. unanimously
elected Chairman of the meeting, and
nful Benjamin Pollard as Clerk.
On a motjon that a Committee ihould be
appointed to prepare an address to the Prefi
ere, dent for the consideration of the meeting,
ro™ the following gentlemen were appointed for
art- that purpose, to wit: Robert B. Taylor,
nea Thomas Mathews, John Nivifon, Seth
the Fo . fter ' a,ld J° hn K - Kead, Efqrs. who
nch retired, and after some time returned with
,w n the draft of an address-, Which, being read
(he three several times, was tinanimoufly ap
her proved of.
' ch Ordered, that the Chairman be requested
e [' to % n « an d forward to Jofiah Parker, Esq.
ter our Representative in Congress, a fair copy
In. of the address, to be by him prelented to the
.-e- President of the United States in the name
on of the .meeting.
The meeting then adjourned.
GEORGE LOVALL, Chairman. „
'n, Attest, Benjamin Pollard, Clerk.
e- At a numerous and refpeElable meeting of tbe ci
tizens of the wufty sis Frederick* in the state <
of Virg inia y held at the court-bouse thereof on
IX \he 30th day of April 17 98, the following refo s
lutions uuere agreed to : /
■,g Resolved, That the repeated and disdain. 1
ful rejection, on the part of the French '
republic of all overtures to explain the '
1£ nifuriderftanding which unhappily prevails '
>s _ between the fa id republic and the United '
s States, renders it the duty of every Amer- ''
lcan to come forward and declare his fenti- '
ments thereupon, with candor, freedom °
and liberality. , n c
Resolved, That the conciliatory measures
,f tion
. e ftcre harmony between the two republics,
, t have been wife, just and becoming the dig- n
r , n ' £ y
of an independent nation.
~ Resolved, That the illiberal and ungener
[. ous policy of France, detailed in the dif- c
e patches from our envoys extraordinary, and
which is founded npon a belief that we are »
a divided people, calls for the unanimous
co-operation of the citizens of the Unitrd
States with the general government thereof. xt .
Resolved, That highly as we value the °!
advantages ef neutrality and the blessings P'
of pea.e, we yet more highly cftimate the
' freedom and independence of our country »
- and will cheerfully concur in such measures
■ for the support of the fame as the conftitu
-3 ted authorities of our government may think
1 necessary to adopt.
s Resolved, That Robert White. j in. Ro- I
1' bert Page and Hugh Holmes, Esq. be ap
pointed a committee te prepare an address
to the President of the United States ex
preffiveof the sentiments contained in the
above resolutions, and sign the fame ori be
half of this meeting.
(Signed} ■- »
Charles Magill, Chairman. v.
Obed. Waite, Secretary.
' ANSWER , R(
To the Address of the Citizens of Frederick , la
Town.
To the Citizens of Frederick-Town, and ' e
County, in the State of Maryland.
GENTLEMEN,
A Copy of your resolutions of the 23d of 0 c
April h s been prefentedto me by your Re- f
prefentative in Congtefs, Mr. Eaer. 0
The honourable tellim»ny of your thanks riC '
to me, of your applause of our Envoys', of aC
your determination to firpport the conltitu
tion and independence of America, against
all Foreign nations—your deteltation ot
the attempts made by Foreigners to divide
the cititens of this cauntry, and to set them
at variance with the government of their p'
choice, would be highly pleating in all cir
cumttances; and ate increased in value to
me, by havi-g been pafled and certified j
under the auspices, of one of the few, who :
.remain of my ancient and m"Uch refpedted
colleagues in the firft councils of the union.
JOHN ADAMS. .
Philadelphia, May 8//j, I 798.
Congress of the United States.
In Senate May 15th, 1798- y r ,
Resolved, That the Secretary of tlve Se- /
nate be directed to write to all such Senators
as are absent without ltave, or whose leave
of absence has expired ; requesting their
immediate attendance. . capt
TO BE SOLD, chal '
arr-v
By John Nixon Co. h our
A few hhds of'excellent St. Croix SUGAR and cr th
RUM, which will be landed at Will nys and Fran- ft
cis' whajf rext Monday, the'2lll iaflant. two
may 16. djteotf of I-
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
in!) 0." PORT OF PHILADELPHIA,
mam
-1,(3 an « . ARRIVED, day
ipref- P Belvidcre, Reynolds, London
• j Prig Lydia Tupper, Fieeman, Liver
e'7d ; pool (N T . S.)
!nc ' en At the; Fort,
ire to Brig Two Sirters, Arnold, St. Croix 1
heart ' ( LEAK h D,
:e of Ship Thomas Wilfun, Jarvis,, P.- Amboy an>
t the r. W.lndies
Snow Mnri;i, Bayiey, St. Croix
■ Schr. Ranger, Lane, N. York
. t0 Debby, Mickay, do.
igni- Dolphin, Britton, do.
iiiti* Ld\'ely Lass" Sweetfev, Charleflon
Hannah, Phippen, Boston
Fea- Pullyj_Tice, Alexandria
, Chloe Ann, LefSngwellj Norfolk
Sloop Prdident, Skidn'tQ're, do.
Betsey, Davis, Snowhill
Sally, Johnfoii, Richmond
J. The Ihip flelvidere, the day after parting
from thefleet, fonndherfelf in company of the
Ship Faftor, K,emp, for N. York (arrived)
Rebecca, Corran, of 16 guns, Virginia
;any Industry, Rndd do
and Warren, Fawn do
dif- ! Parted from them (except (lie Warren) se
ven days after. May uth, lat. 38, long. 73,
30, parted with the Warren, close in with the
t j, c Ihore, she not being armed, capt- Reynolds
Fall k e P t -' ,cr company the whole passage. The
' toll wing veftels for this port were with the f?eet
J l -' when the Belvidere parted,
era- Ship Manchester, Barker, from Liverpool
reft- | Clothier, Gardner, do
lent! Nancy, Joy, London
Barque Adriana, Lee do
tidy ' .
and By this day's Mail.
Ibe ■ - —'
■efi. BOSTON, May 12.
tig, Tejlen/lay the committee which communicated
for the Hon. Mr. Otis, the address, of the citi
lor, *ens of this town, to the Preft dent, received
eth '^ e following answer thereto :
uho To the Inhabitants and Citizens of Boston.
■ith gentlemen,
ead 1 / v lhankyou for the declaration of your ap
ap- probation of the measures adopted by me, rela
tive to our jor eign relations, to conciliate the
led French Republic, and to accommodate all ex
fq. >Jl">g differences, upon terms compatible with the
ipy f"fety, the intercjl, and tie dignity of the Uni
the ttc i States.
me ? our high and elevated opiniorrof, and con
fidence in the virtue, tvifdom and patriotism; of
the national government, and fixed resolution to
to. Support, at the risque cf youlr lives and for
tunes, such measures as may be determined to he
necessary to promote and secure the honor and
ci- happiness of the United States, do you honor,
2te and are perfedly in character.
It mujl, however bt a very unnatural, and
peculiar Jlate of things, to make it necessary or
n , proper, in you, or any other American in your
c [, behalf to declare to the world, what the world
| le ought to have known and acknowledged with.
j[ s out hejitation—that you are not humiliated under
?d a colonial sense of fiar, that you are not a di
"r _ v 'ded people, on any point which involves
t,3e f>ot>or, fafety and essential rights of your
m country, that you kno-ui your rights, and are
determined to fjpport them. ,
„ - . JOHN ADAMS'
Philadelphia, May 7.
s Capt. Rich, 4.1 days from Gibraltar, '
mentions, that the Spanish fleet was order-
>" ed to put to sea the firft fair wind. t
I NEW BRUNSWIpK May 15. t'
d On Wednesday last a detachment of alioiit '
e fifty troops, under the command of Captain' c
s Miller, arrived in this city from Middletown '
d Connedicut they were joined by twenty-si x I
- recruits, enlifled by Enfig-n Boote in this
city, and on Saturday marched for Philadel- f.
phia. the recruiting service is continued here c
by Mr. Boote. 1
- ? 1
A very large and refpedable meeting of the
Young Men of the cityof New 7 Bi unfwick hi
convened, agreeably to notification, at the c<
/ court house on Saturday lali. ™
Major William Dunham, Chairman
J. W, Scott, Secretary
A motion was made and unanimouflya- (
greed to, That, Major William Dunham,
Isaac W. Crane,Efq, DO6I. Jacob Dunham j-,,
messrs. William P. Deare, & Joseph W. a '
Scott, be a committee to draft an address a
to the Prefideiit of the United States, ex- bj
preffive of our approbation of his administra
tion, and particularly of his conduft in the to
late attempt for negociation with the French
Republic ; and of our determination at all c ],
hazards to support such measures as lhall be
deemed necessary' to maintain the honor, ~
freedom and independence of our country ;
and that the committee teport the fame
for consideration oi> Wednesday next, at 12
o'clock, at the court houie. —-
Resolved unanimonfly, That the members
of the present meetisg do wear the A me- f
rican eockade, 3s an evidence of our at
tachment to that conllituti©n under which , ,
we have the peculiar happiness to live, and P °
that we recommend the fame raeafure to all
of our acquaintance.
NORFOLK, May 10.
A meeting ef the inhabitants of the Town of \
Portsmouth was held on Tuesday lajl, for the 1
purpose of addrejfmg the President of the Uni- Str
ted Stales on the fnbject of the negotiations with '
! France, /in address exprejfive of their pleasure
at his Jirm\and Patriotic cendudt was unani
mously agreed to- VV
W<
Teflerday arrived here the ship Minerva, Str
tapt. IVyvi I, 70 days from Liverpool. Sai
led in company with the brig Patty, capt. Lee,
for this port. Off the Land's End was cha
fed by a French privateer brig for 12 hours, j ng
but efc aped. oat ]
whi
CHARLESTON, April 18. Th
A privateer, supposed to be the fame which te "
captured the ftrp Favorite, 011 Thursday last, t0 t
chafed the Hoop Lvdia, capt. Tallman, wh«eh £
arrived yesterday from Providence, for fourteen
hours. Capt. Tallman escaped, by failing fall
cr than the privateer.
It was reported last evening, that there weft We
two other privateers off, cue of which is s brig
Of 14 guns. n,
ti 1/-W ibt L~tr.i> -L'gr fittdiigcitf'r rf Tebrva-j 3
paper.
Switzerland to be the next toufliry <lc
voied to rcvo!u': 1)0. How far the French have
cays, interfered in th.s as well as the rtvi lution at
Hume, we will net ji.prefcnt pretend to dcttr
mine. 1 arty writers on 01,e fide (the editors of
2 S the True Briton, the Sun, &c ) declare that tjjt
French are the sole authors of tbe'e revolutions.
'7 Party writ.trs o'ti the ether (the editors of the
Courier) although they rl« not join in these af
y and fe, tic-ns, are'beginning'toapologilefortheFrench
ies for their apparent delign»,ajjjinft those countries
and leem anxious as usual to go through thick
and thin in juflifying any proceedings fan*Slion
ed under the name of repubiieanifm.
in vindicaiion of the app<eh«ided seizure of
Home, we. are informed by the Fren-h papers,
am] by their icho country, jull alluded to
" that the foreign mmifiers m the court of Rome,
bear ampie teflimony to, Moderation of the
1 rench." Will any impartial uian, who knows
the fiuiation of those minilters, pay any atten
.• *' nn to furh miniftcrs, pay any attention to such
tellimonv r Let 11s however wait till the conclu
ded) I '°" t ' ie con f elences at Ralbdt, and htall
'inia t ' len b f tterab!e to refpe<sling thecoo
' dufl t.f the Trench towards Italy, as well as
Switzerland
I T' le editors of a refpeftable opposition print,
(the Morning Chronicle) have very properly ex
the' P rc p. d t ' ieir f " lrs ' that " the Swiss Cantons
olds mi, '\ ln future be known under some uncouth re-
Ph e publican title and with equal propriety adds,
Scet " revo! "fifn of Switzerland (hould beef
feiled, it will be the only inltance yet exhibited
jqq! a revolution on purely theoretical principles
Q without practical oppressions. The Swiss were
Jon not opprefled." To these just observations jh«
0 Frenchified editors of the Courier, have thought
proper to reply in their ulual looie and fiimfy
manner. They have not <lared to assert that
Switzerland in general was not well governed,
that its inhabitants were not|in poffellion of free
dom, and happiness, or that a revolution was
necessary. No, they only hint in an indirect
rted man,ler > that there were individual instances of
■iti- o PP re "i° n onc °f t' l6 Cantons. We could,
, j were we inclined, easily confirm the obferva- t
Vt tions in the Morning ChroniLle ; but we have
no occasion to put our fickle in anothers' harvest.
on. ihe observation of the editors of the Courier,
relpetling the mimiterial prints, we hope will
a p- not be forgotten by themfelve? ." To reply to
•la- ?' le re < na^s °f certain Papers on this sub- j
the "'' ' nfelefs, their llupidity protedfts
them." This obfervatiojp is more particularly
cx ~ applicable to those editors who pretend to be
the friends to the Rights of Man in one country, and
»ho can juftify the total overthrow of those ,
rights in another—who can vindicate the mur- a ,
m- ders of a Robespierre, who can approve of tranf- s
r porting the representatives of a nation by wliole
•> sale without a trial—who can plead for the an
-0 nihilation of the Liberty of the press, and who
>r ' when justly chastised for their gross inconsistency
be and apoftacy, Ihew by their filenec, that they
nd are unable to vindicate their sentiments, and that
lr, have not integrity fufficient to confefs their
errors, tylodefty ought to keep such Editors £'
j from attacking others, till they have at least
learned a little themfelves.
Whatever may be the depravity of human J l '
ur nature, there is still so much sense of decency, _
Id amongst inferior villains al to prevent them
b. openly infultiug heaven and glorying in their ,
'er j aTne • We do not recolletfl reading of afiem- -~-
ft. blies of profeffed house breakers and murderers, 'C
appointing days to faft and pray to God for fuc- -so
' cefu to their crimes, or that they kept the anni- he
verfary of the vilest of their murders as a fefti- co
r*\ val. This sense of decency seems to forfake D
such charailer6, when theypraflife their crimes
under the appellation of llatefmen, no matter th
I whether monarchial or republican. It is very fid
I anniverfarv of
r J that foulelt of all modern fonl murder?, that of on
' Louis XVI. the directory, &c. again swore at- mi
tachment to a constitution, the mod essential ar
ticles of which they have destroyed. But how
ever widely they differ, in their profeffions,
j there seems to be one t&ing, formerly indeed
it j thought one of the moll black and damned of
n J crimes which now. judging by theconduil of
these men, they clafc amongtt the philof .phica! /
1 andchrifton virtues—Perjury ! . 1 / The philo
K j fophers of France, and tiie "divines, even the Jrs
Sj in oft profefftdly evangelical, of an eftab-ifh-;l Ga
- 1 falling and praying christian church, in another Dul
t I country seem per.'ely to underihmj one mother
j The enhghrened phllofouhy of the one, acid 7
the evangelical divinity cf the other, both meet v"
jin this concliifion-that a man may derla.-e, -
_ j fut feribe, and swear, to what he habitually d:f
---: j believes, and to what his praai e habitua'lv
: j cotitradias-l '
, THIRTY DOLLARS P.BVARD. ■ Zet
Stolen Laji Right,
OTIT0 TIT of the P aftureof the Subscriber, living
'' n Dai by, Delaware c»unty, a Bay Horse
1 about fix'etn hands high, fix' years old this \)
fprin.g, fhid before, thin mairfanl switch tail, ,
j a rmall liar in his forehead, hind feet white, has
1 a remakible fear cr his near Ihoulder ticcafioned
by a lca'.d or burn, on which the hair is thin and
Ihort, he carries well, trots and canters, is apt
to start when rode. Whoever takes up said
horse and thief, shall have the above reward, or
fifteen dollars for the horse only and reasonable
I charges. Nathaniel Neiv/in.
I fth month, 17 ._ eod n
A few boxes of Umbrellas A Pr
To be Sold cheap—by
Mordecai Lewis.
ma y 2 7 dtw Till
Very Great Bargains* '
I /CONSISTINGof Table Linen, Scotch and WUI
i India Muslins, now felling off and well
worth the . attention of Housekeepers to make *5
I putchafe of En'quiieof p
7 homat Randail, H;
No. 88 spruce-jlreit. A
| m:| y 17 §
to 1e rented,
To a Small Genteel Family.
A Pleasant House in Dock-street, Bear Front-
street—Apply at No. i ss South Second- 1
Street.
I may y J ;
I J- OR SALE,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf< &e. finiate on
Water street, between Mulberry an'i Saffafras a P'
Streets, containing in front on Water street sis
, ' y-four feet, and containing that breadth east- rp,
ward ninety-fire feet, then widening to the 1 be '
louth thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
have the convenience of a public alley adjoin- -
ing on the north fu!e, and area very defirjblefit
untion for a a merchant, flour faftor, or others
who may have Creation for storage of goods
This property will he fold on very reafonible apr
terms for cash. For further information applv
to the printer. * ~ *
a P' il ■* _m*wtf '' RF "
•£. r; : —— .has rci
oril Cj propo
cases of 8 ■' h Threads,
\v ell nfTorteti, and entitled to Drawback. hHfin-
A rr'y at No $, South Water Sirett. r , t ," -
m "
■aj\,r ' Just Pubii/heJ,
3y W. I'OUNG, b'tkfcU.T. Secou..!-P.r •:'*
ry <!e- < tftr .win# »f .t'hrfrut ftrwt,
hive THE WORKS OF JOHN NEWfOM,
on at on d on:
Jeter- edition, i:i 9 vols price i\ d>is. nfa f
ors of k°unriv cckitainjog It-rters of Omicron at* I
at rsc X ir M , » Cardip):on.*.T, nericfw of reck Ihtt va I hif
tions. Jfy, lermors, rtitfiiah* letters to a wife, Olnty.
f the ,n "s, and tlie life of- C*nninghtm.—
seas J / a; -h of niay be had /Vpjjfiic, and
rench * s . hiVe been filpplicd with \V. Voting's
ltries J 'J* 1 ' n yols. may» by speedy application, be
thick with the 7th, Bth and 9th vols. at
ilion- Jols "
hitely Pulltjhei.
re of Baxter Saint's Reit, abridgtd by Faw- dols.
pers, cetr > lima at I
ed to cv^ r idpe'sprivatctlioughtss2 partsi2mo 75
ome, Christian (the] Parent, i2mo
F the (the) Remembrancer, i2mo 75
lows Christian world unmaiked, do 6:4
tten- DickenTon's (of New-Jersey) familiar
such letters, 1 zmo
Tj-Iu- Doddnge's rife and prog-refs, tßmo 50 a <Sa^
SmU feritions on education, 1 imo 44
con- vCrmonatoyoungperfons, d£> 62^
;llas r —; onregeneratiorf, tS(no g;^
Davies sermons 2 vols Bvo 4
rint, Home's sommentary on the book of
rex- Pfilms, 2 25
tons " —— J —ditto i vols Bvo 3 to
1 re- a highly admired brail who have
dds, had the advantage of pertfing it.
eef- Hervey Afpafio vindmated, 121110 7^
ited Letters bf certain Jews to Voltaire, Bvr> z
pl es Walker's sermons, with B.&ir's life of
re re f ' ,e author, } vols BVO '
ihc White's fcrm-ms, preached before the
igln- Univerfityof Oxford, Bvo x 53
mfy W'ynperiTe on the true and eterrta! God
that head of our Lord Jesus Christ, J0 a6B
led, Sncred Biography. or the history ©f the
ree- Patriarchs, by H. Hunter, 3 vols BVO 6
u-as A large aflortmcnt of bibles, in folio, qmrto,
recSt i2tr.o and pocket, at various prices,
sos A large allowance to wholesale ptirchafers.
ild, Catalogues of books, M'ith the prices of each
va- book annexed, are delivered as
ave rna.y 17 2aw;w
£; C A N NOW,
vill Muflcet and Piitol Cartridge Papers,
1:0 A LARGK ASSORTMENT
Jb- Is now readyfor fait by William YounG,
■™ Booifdbcr, No. 52, Second Street, lit
"j'y corner of Chefuut flreet.
. OF *HOM MAV Bt HAD
Baron Stcvhen's Regulationsfor the Order and Disci-
t lmc «ftie Troops oflthe United Stat-.—To which is
ur- add;,!, an aS of Concerning i!j e Militia, pritfc
n '" JO cents j do. large prints by Cents.
,'n." W. Young,
ho H as J or f*b I°n the le-wefi terms, for cq/b er ncgociaLe
C y Notes,
ey Large writing, printing & drafting paper,
iat A L S O,
:ir Foolscap, Pojl, Folio and 4 to. P:,Ji cf various fixes,
irs .£ilt a/id plain ; ink poivder scaling ivax, wafers, pushes,
ift blaci lead pencils, quills, rulers, cafe' cf /m~
thematical irfirumentj, gunter fcalcs, parchment and eft
m ft'" memorandum booh, pen knives, India rubber and ink.
Vt ma y 12 * ZtlW^ru
m " FOR SJLE. ; ~
ir A THREE Story Brick House, on the north
n- fide of Spruce-street near Second-llri?et,
s, adjoining the wall of Mr. Jones's garden and
c . formerly occupied by David Lenox, efq.—This
li- house is in corr.pleat repair with back buildings,
i. confiding of a Piazza, Kitchen and a hindfome
ce Dining Room over the Kitchen,
es As any Person inclined to put-chafe will view
;r (he premises.a more particular description iscon
•y fidered unnecefikry.
? f The terms of payment will be one third cafli,
>F one thirdln"6 menff!J and the remainder in 12
t- months w,ith interest. information,
r- Enquire of JOHN CRAIG,
'• No. u Dock-flreet.
s, may 16
, d f Country Residence.
>f
1! A FAMILY who live Six Miles from the Cifv,
<■ /- \wifh to receive two or three boaid
e ers. The Houfc is handsomely turniftcd; the
.j Gardens, M??dows and Lawn arc beautifully iaid
T out, and well locked with the clioiceft Fruit.
There are several Musical Instruments,
d which is a most excellent patent Piano Forte. The
Family have a handforre Coach, which may be at
the lervice of the whole.
The Coach House and Stables are mod excellent
-the Water good—and the Air imecmajled in the
Y environs of the Town.
b For particulars enquire at the -Sice of this Ca
zette. dtf
miy 16.
~~FOR SALE, ~
I A Black Man,
> \X/" HO has five y ea " and a half to fcrve, is a
, , V * g° OQ coachman, an excellent waitsr, and
, has been accustomed to marketing for a family—
, h« age about thirty two years. For fu ther parti
culars, apply at the office «f this^nzttte.
m *y 'S- 5
FOR SALE,
About 660 boxes of fine SparJ/h
GUN powdeK,
Containing 1 co lbs. each.
Apply at No. 13, corner of Arch and Front streets
may 12.
§rw
B R AND r.
The Cargo of the Danifli Brig Concord,
FROM CSTTt,
Will commence landing this day, at Smith's fire,
wharf.
200 pipes 4th proof "> n , .
160 do ift do. j Choice Brandy
Provence white Wine, in pipes
Hazlenuts and Filberts, in Tacks
A fc.v Almonds, Raisins, &c.
For Sale by
Peter Blight.
WHO ALSO OFPERS FOR „ u ,
200 '® 0 b ° ibs - J ava Coffee, infacks
°'d Batavia Arrack, in pipe,
IVlace and Cloves, in boxes
120 hhd». Jamaica Sugar
50 do. do. R um
Port Wi ße in pipes, hhds. and qr,cafk,
Madeira, London particular in
superior P OTtKUI «. "> P'P«, ve.-y
april 18. ,
dJ»eoti7M
For Sale,
ThesargoofthebrigAmericanfromLaffuira
CONSISTING OP '
Ca-accas Cocoa.
Henry pbiHp s y
april 23 N °' S ° Uth F ° Urth Sueat -
1 >.
TV. M. Bi r>r>L e.
RKSPECrFfjLLY informs the Pablic, that h«
has removed to-No. , 47) ChTnot Street, wheu h*
proposes to carry on the buPijrfs of
A BROKER.
He will procure patents, or tra, faO- ,
bafinffsin the Lard Office of -h 1 t» f ° fr
rate cnir.miffion. ' b ' S for
may 14
<od3tTreasury Department,
March 19, 1798.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
r l 'H » l'propolals wilt be recnived at the Office of 1
I. the Secretary of the Treasury until the expi- j
ration of the t;th day of July next enfiiing, for |
t'.ie supply of ull rations which may be required
f..r the use of the United States, fromthe firft day of '
Oaohtr 1798, to the thirtieth day of September
1799, both days inclusive, at the places and within
the diftrisft hereafter mentioned, viz. At Ofwego;
at Niagara ; at Prefque Isle ; at Michilimackinac ;
at Fort Franklin ;at Pittsburgh ;ot Le Beuf; at w
Cincinnati; at Greenville; atPicqueTown and
Loramie's Store at Fort Wayne; at Fort Defi- "
ance ;at any place below Fort Defiance on the Mi- A
ami River to Lake Erie ; at Fort Knox and Oua
tanon an the River Wabafh; at MafTac; at any
place or places on the eaO fide of the River Milfif
fippi above the mouth of the River Ohio, and up
on the Illinois River ; at any plaee or plates on the
east fide of the Miffiilippi River below the month
of the River Ohio to the southern boundary of the A
State of Kentucky, and within the said Stat* ; at
Knoxville, Te\lico Block House, and at all other
Polls in the State of TennefTee; at anyplace or
places on the fall fide of the River MilfifTippi, be-
low the fou'hern boundary of the State of I'ennef-
fee, to thefoutheni boundary of the United States.
If supplies lhall be required for any polls or
places not mentioned in this notice,all such supplies
shall he furnifhed at prices|proportionod to those to
the polls before recited, as may be agreed on be
m-een the United States and the contraftor.
The rations "to be supplied to consist of th» fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour "
One pound of beef or twelve ounces of pork
or bacon
Half a jill ofrum, brandy or whir-"s
ky ; one quart of Salt, two quarts ( hvl^dr , d
of vinegar, two pounds of soap, ( rations
one pound of candles J
The rationsare to he furnifhed in such quantities,
as that there shall at all times during the said term,
he fufficient for the consumption of the troops at /
Michilimackinac, Detroit, Niagara, and Ofwego,
for the term of fix months in advance, and at each
of the other pofls, for the term of at lead three
months in advance, in good and wholesome provi
sions, if the fame shall be required. It is t» be un
dcrflood, that the contractor is to be at the ex-.
p nee and rifle of issuing the supplies so the troops
at each post, and that all losses fuilained by the de
predations of an enemy, or by means of the
troops of .the United States, shall be paid for at
the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on
the depositions of two or more per Tons of credita
ble characters, andthe certifica'e of a cpmniiffion
«d officer, afcertainifig the circutoltances of the
lofsand the amount of the articles for whi3h com
pensation (hall be claimed. 1
The priviledge is reserved to the United States
Of requiring that none of the supplies which may
he ftirrifhed under the proposed contrail, (hall be
iiTued, UStil the supplies which have or may be
furnifhed under the contrail now in force have
been consumed.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
msrch 17. 2awtljJy
Cedar Poits, Raits and Shingles J *
FOR SALE.
THEY will be delivered to ary place in Mary- j
land, Pennsylvania, New-Jersey, or New- i '
York, where boats drawing fix left water can go
lrom this place. It will often suit the feller to |
receive in return com, provisions, wet or dry
goods. Letters direiled to the fubferiber at this l
place, and put into any poll office in the United I
States, will be regularly received and carefully at- j
tended to. Those who wish to contrail inPhi'a- |
delphia, will pleafs to sppiy to Gidson Hill j t
Wtus, Ho. 135, Market-street. The fubferiber | ,
is deGrous of contrailing with fom« refponftble '
person in Philadelphia, to receive and difpefe of for
him, on commission, a quantity of two feet Shin
gle", for home use, and of two feet and eighteen
inohes, for exportation. —-
William Hill Wells,
Dagfborough, (late of Delaware.
anril ->. B.
Germantown and Reading Turn- J
pike Road Company. i
THE Subscribers Commissioners appointed by
an Ail of AfTembly of this Commonwealth
entitled, "An ail to enable the Governor of this j
Commonwealth to incorporate a Company for
making an Artificial Road from the city of Ph - ,
ladelphia, through Germantown, by the rout
ofChefnut Hill, to the twelve mil# flone on
the Reading Road, and thence to Reading in the
county of Bei ks," hereby give notice, that books
are provided as the law direfts, and that we .
will proceed to receive fiibfcriptions for the com
pany's stock on the iXth, 19th, and 30th days
' of May next, at the City Hall, in the city of
Philadelphia,at the Tavern of William Buchois,
in Germantown, at the Tavern of Jacob Berr,
in Reading in the county of Berks, and at the
Tavern of George Phleger, in Potts-Town in
the counry of Montgomery, cn the fame days,
from ten o'clock in the morning, until two o'
clock, P. M. on each day, when and where cer
tain of the Commffioners will attend toreceive 1
fubfcription3 accordingly,
april 14th, 1798.
BENJAMIN CHEW, jun.
CASPAR V/. HAINES,
SAMUEL BUT I ON,
GEORGE LOGAN,
JOHN FROMBERGER,
ISAAC FRANKS,
JOS HEISTER,
J. BOWER,
DANIEL ROSE,
SAMUEL LAVERTY,
GEORGE DOUGLASS,jun.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
N. B. Fifteen Dollars to be paid on each
share at the time of fubferibing.
April 17—leodt-joM
For Sale,
A good situation for a Country Skat,
Forty acres of Land,
On the Old York ro»d, within fight of Ger
mantown, end about five miles from the city;
the whole heing under good fence, and ia ex
cellent order as pasture ground.
For further information and terms, apply to
Jonn Elliott, Cressok, at his Office for the
sale of RealEftates,'Conveyancing, &c. No. 54,
High-street.
4th mo. tnftfut
Notice is hereby Given,
TH AT application lias been made at the Bank of
JL the United States, for the renewal of the fol
lowing five Certificates of Bank Stock, lofl by the
capture of the British Packet, Countcli of Leicef
ter —viz.
N0.3703, containings(hares'} "Tutd to Henry Ca
--03 5 do, 3 zenove Nephew&Co
x do. iffaed to Edwerds
and Co.
; do. idiied (in lieu of
6509 to 6515) to Samuel and Henry 'Varidiogton.
2 j l ß 4 do. iifued to Phyn, El
licc and'rglii.
All perform concerned are thereforr cai.edupon
to (hew c*ufe why hew Certificates should
iifued agreeably to the fait! application.
April 14 ccCw
treasury department,
MARCH r, 1,79 s -
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
of O-nerrfs rafTcd on the Cxlh day of July one thousand fevcn hundred and
Y W'lnTfllij duties on Stamped Velliim, Parchment and Paper", and the
on, thoa£.l f,ven hundred and \
«AnAit :o postpone for a united time the commencement of the <*»'«' '£P°< fed >yM the
tied "An A 1 laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Pap , collec- ,
firildayof July ens.ing, the several Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, wi.lbe levied
ted through jut the L uited States.
For every flcin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or sheet or piece of Paper, spon which (hill he (
written or printed any or either of the instrument. or wrft.ngsiollowu.g--W wit .
Any Certificate of Naturalization, - ~n „r 5
Any Licence to pradlice.or Certificate of the adm.ffion, enrolment or regi flry ot
any Coanfellor,Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Proilor, in any Court ot the
United States, - - ■ „ " - ." IT . A ,q.
Provided, that a Certificite in any one of the Courts of the United otates
for one of thefaid Office., (hall so far as relates to the payment of the
duty aferefaid, be a fuificient idmiffi«»n in all the Cotim of the Unite,d
States, for and everv of the said offices. _ •
Any Grant or Letters fcatent, imder the feat or authority oi the United Mates
(except for lands granted for military services) - . 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any fuck grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military services)
Any Charter-Party, Bottomry, or Refpondentia Bond, - - 1
Anv Receipt or discharge for or on accoumof anyLegacv left by any Will or o
ther testamentary instrument, or for any share or part of a perfpp.*»_e?ate_< li
. vided by force ot any statute of diftrtontUns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceafed,the amount whereorfhall he
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and shall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, - - - " „ . " „ ,
When the amount thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
(hall not exceed five hundred dollars, - - " *°
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional sum o I
Any Policy of Insurance or instrument in nature thereof, on any (hip, vellel or
gtSods insured from one diftriil to another in the United States, *5
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum tor which
Insurance is made shall not exceed five hundred dollars, - *5
When the sum insured (hall exceed five hundred dollars, * 1
Any Exemplification, of what uitnre soever, that (hall pass the seal ot any
Court, other than filch as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furnifh for the ufeofthe United States or some particular ftste, - JO
Any Bond, bill single or penal, for.-ign or inland bill of exchange, proraiflory
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or with the United' States or any (late, or tor t.ieir
uferefpeilively, - - - ; " "
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - to
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred do lars, 25
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars,
And if above one thousand dollars, - -
Provided, that if any bonds or rtotes (halt be payable at or willnn sixty days,
such bonds or notes (ball be fubjea to only two fifth parts of. theory
aforel"ai(! : —viz. - - _ , ' j
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - I 4
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred 4o! « s,
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, xo
If above one thousand dollars, - - ,'ruftt,
Any Notes iflutd bv the hanks now eflablifhed, or that may hereafter be ettab
lifhed within the' United States, other than the notes of such of the said Banks
as shall agree to an annual composition, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders relpeflively, according to
the following scale. - - 6
On all not« 3 not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar,
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred "JoUrs, jo
Cn all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - " *
On all notes above five hundred dollars, - a
Any Protest or other Notarial ail, - -
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid pension, or to obtain or feu V\ ar-
I rants for Laiid granted by the United States as bounty for military services
performed in the late war, - - * , "
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Cufloms or duties, for Uls than
' five hundred dollars, - - - j 1
For five hundred dbllars and not exceeding two thousand dollars,
For more than two thousand dollars, - -• 3
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
h' from one diftriil to another diftria of the United States, not being m the
fame State, - 10
If from the United States to any foreign port or place, - - 2J
j Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or efFeils, made in-any
' - cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels diflrained for
rent or raxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share in any Insurance Company, of a (hare in the Bank of
the United States, or of any State or other Bank-,
r 1 i«hi»Milwnl ilnlliw J 1
If above one hundred dollars, X l 5
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
The dutie<afore(*id will be collefled and received by the Super.visors, Infpeaors aud other Officers
of Infpeftion, in the several Diflriil*, Sarveya and Divisions of the United States, and by such other
perrons as {hall from to time be specially appointed and employed by the Supcrvifors of Diftrias for
that purpose.
The Supervifers of the faveral Diftriits will, prior to the fir ft day of July ensuing, and as soon as
may be practicable, markorflamp, without fee orreward, any quantities or pareelsof Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of thefaid duties ; Or
(lamped vellum, parchment and paper n.ay at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rates prescribed bylaw, by application to any Supervilor, Infptilor, Officer of Infpeition,
or other par Con appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervlfors of Didrids.
V VV GIVEN under my Haud, at Philadelphia
the day and year abovimentioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10 ; Secretary of the Treasury. ,
James Humphreys,
BEING encouraged by a number of gentlemen
in the mercantile line, to undertake the pub
lishing of a Price Current in this city, and they
having engaged to give him every alfiftance in their
power to render it accurate and ufeful,
PROPOStS TO PRINT BT SUBSCRIPTION,
The Philadelphia Price Current,
And Market Day Advertiser.
To be publifhcd every Wediwfday and Saturday
morning, on the following conditions.
It willbe printed on four pages quarto. It will
contain the Prices Current (wholelale) at Phila
delphia, with the duties on each article : —The Pri
ces Current at Boflon, New-York, Charleston,
and other parts of the United States, with the Pri
ces Current at Londen, the Weft Indies and else
where as often as they can be had accurate and to
be relied on. The rat»s of icfaraoee—the price
of flocks—courfeof exchange, &c. &c. Likewise
a regular account of entries, inwapd and outward
—withfuch marine and other intelligence as shall
be thought ufeful and important—and the remain
der of the j>aper will be appropriated to advertise
ments.
The price to fubfcrifiers within the city and li
berties, to whom it will be delivered at their hou
fts, willbe Four Dollars per annum—Two dollars
at the expiration qf a mopth from its publication,
and the remainder at the'end of the year. Sub-
Icribers at a greater distance will have it sent them
agreeable to their direSiens—to pay two dollars at
the time of lubferibing, andthe remainder at the
end of the year.
The publication shall commence as soon as a fuf
ficient number have fuhferibed to pay the expence
of conducing it.
ipr It is from the advice and to gratify the wi(h
ef a number of mercantile gentlemen that the
printer propofei publilhing this Price Cnrrent in a
quarto size in preference to any other. And it is
propofv-d to embrace the Prices Current with such
other matter as may be most material to fend abroad
in the firfltwo pages—appropriating the other tw«
to such matters as rvay be more immediately do
mestic, and to advertisements.
Snbfcriptions are received by said Humphrie's, at
his Printing Office, No. 74, North Third-flreet,
and Mr. Z. Poulfon, jun. at his office in Chcfnut
flrect, and at the Philadelphia library.
Philadelphia, April 14. ftf
For Sale,
A CONVENIENT well built second hand Light
Waggon, hucg on Jacks with glafT*s and
blinds in the doors, with or without harness
Enqu're of Perer UmericVhoufe, Arch, below
Sixth street, or the fubferiber in Germantown.
CASPAR tr. HAINES.
April 2 *iawj\v
Frefli Teas.
JuJl Jtnpvrted, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sale, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Co*npting House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftrect,
AND by
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At hi» Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon,Y oung
Hyfoo, Hy£on Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, assarted; black and coloured Lute
strings »nd Sattins, Naakeens, CaiEa, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
vvhale-bonc flicks.
They have also Fof SmU f
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchief",
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes.
giarch 8. ■§
'
Now Opening,
At W1 lli a m M'Law s Saddle Manufadtory,
No. 72, Chefnut Street,
A general aflbrtment of Horseman's
Pitlols, dire£t from the Manufacturers in London.
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Corers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartouch Boxes, Va
lites, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriagt and Chair Harness, &c.
April 9 dtf
City Commissioner's Office,
"January utb, 1798.
FOR THE INFORMATION OF THE CITIZENS.
HPHE following arrangement it made by the
1 said commissioners, for cleansing the
streets, &c.
Diftriil No. I.—From the north fide of Vine
street, to the south fide of Mulberry street; to
be under the fuperintendance of Nicholas Hicks.
1 From the south fide of Mulbrry street, to
the south fide of CVefnutftrreet, to be under the
fuperintendance of William Moulder.
3. From the fonth ftfie of Chefnut street to
I the narth fide of Spruce street, to be under the
I, fuperintendance of Joleph ClaypooJe.
| 4. From the north fide of Spruce street, to the
south fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu
perintendance of Hugh Roberts.
When pumps are oat of order south of
High-street, please apply to Thomas Dixey, at the
corner of South and Fifth-flreetj, or Godfrey Geb
ler, in Fourth, rear Chefnvit-ftreet ; and north of
High flreet, to Dixey and Dehaven, in SaiTafras
ftreet, between Sixth and S»*eoth-ftreets.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
March 30 th. 1798. B;
Public Notice is hereby given,
THA r by an afl of Congrc fs pasTed on the
i 9 (h day.nf Mitch. 1798, th= following "
a rerations and amendments have been m ide to C|
the »& parted on the 6th day of July 1797.«J- m
titled "An ail laying duties on (lamped vel-
" lum, parchment and paper. ' t h
!• >
The (lamp dutica on debentures or «ertifi- C(
catei for the drawback of Custom» or duties on j r
Imports are repealed. w
Adifcount at the rate of seven and one half p'
oer Centum, will be allowed by the Snperv.fors b<
or Tnfpeilors refpedlively, to any persons other d(
than Officers of the Revenue, who may pur- m
chafe atone time or procure to He (lamped, any ,
quantities of Vellum, Parchment or Paper, upon J
which the duties (hall amount to Ten Dol-
lars or upwards. (\
ni. . - tf
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold at
the rates prescribed by law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for (lamped Parchment or
Vellum, an actional price will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cent* for each (kin ot Parch_
mrnt, or Two Hundred Cents for each (km of
Vellum of medium size, which may be furmfli
ed at 'he expertfe of the United States and, pro
portionally for any teflVr quantity. -I
Given under my handy at Philadelphia, the C
Jav and jeir abovemtvtutred.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of theTreafury. fil
WANTED, 7" pr
APPROVED BILLS on Amfterdam-rfor which l%
ca(H will be given at the rate of thirty seven cents T(
per guilder. Enquire of the Ca(hier of the Bank t j,
of the UnifedStites, § april 13. T ;
Landing,
From on board the (hip Elizabeth, captain Paiflie,
from Batavia,
And FOR SALE by the Subscriber,
400,600 wt. Java COFFEL
300 canisters SUGAR, of a superior quality
ALSO,
A quantity of SAP AN WOQD
JOHN MILLER, jun.
«i s ll<
apnl 17* ■- V
Thomas Joshua Fisher,
,' ai
HAVE FOR SALE,
At No. 5, pock-ftreet,near the Drawbridge,
China ware nankeen dining fctt9, tea and coffee n
cups and saucers
Nankeens, black fattins and tafTities
Pungem cloths, rhoppah rowalls, and randannoes
China and umbrella*,
Together with a general ajfortmcnt of European
Goods — among which are
Scots thread in boxes
6d, Bd. rod. nd and aod.naih t ,
Shot—T. Crowley steel, 3panilh and white £
lead e
Euglifli scythes 42 to 50 inches
ALSO, c
it 1 barrellsof
A commodious StoreinDock'-ftreet,
No. 7, to be let, three (lories high, suitable for
any business. ,
4th mo. sth §tf f
S ALT P El RE. h
One hundred kegs of refined Salt Petre,
For Sale by the Suhfcribers. a
James C. & Samuel IV. FiJher,
No. 13, Arch Street 1
march jr 4tawtf
Joseph Ricardo, ,
. f~f "■ iwT'tra-y--grrrgn gtrr.Ts ftro-
perty for the benefit of his Creditors, te James
C. Fiuier, Samuel W, Fisher, and Thomas Wilson.
All persons who have demands are re
quelled to furnifh their accounts without delay—
and those indebted to make immediate payment to
the Subscribers, afling Aflignees. I
James C. & Samuel IV. Filler. i
No. 13, Arch Street. 1
march -it 4taw;f <
canal Lottery —No. 11. j
WILL commence drawing Monday, the 49th |
infl. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at .
Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottsry (
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-street ,
Tickets inthe Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollars, where check books are kept (or regifler
ing and examining in these, the City of Washing
ton', No. ll.and Patt«rfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be bad in mod of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the J
1 Union. i
N. B. The b*fmefs of a Biokir, inbuyingand ]
filling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcocnting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of ;
Lands, Houses, &e. &c. will be duly attended to, i
' by Wto. BLACKBURN.
November it.
" JUST RECEIVED. ~ ;
And f»r sale by W.Ynimg, corner of Second
and Chefnut-ftreet, M. Carey ti3 Higb-ftreet
T. Dobfon, 41 South Second-flreet and the
Boekfellers generally,
(Price j-Bths of a Dollar.)
BEACON HILL,
A Ltcal Poim, historic and deforiptive »
By a Lady of Bojlon.
ANALYSIS OF BOOK!.
Allusion to the surrounding Profped—lnvocation
to the River and fylvnn Deities—to the Historic
Mufe—Fi&ion discarded— Dedication to Wafli
ington—The A&ion open' at the Retreat of the
• Columbians from Bunker's Hill—General Howe
—The Memory of his Brother—Death of War
ren—Perfanification of Fcrtune and Fame—
S Washington at Mount Vernon—called to the
■' chief Command—Formation of the Columbian
Camp at Cambridge—Natural, moral, or poli
t tical History of the fever*! States —Their com
manding Officers—Siege of Bofton—lts Suffer
r Ings—Negotiation for the fafe Retreat of the
British Army—lts Departure—Appointment of
Congress—Declaration of Independence—Cha
- rafter of the Columbian SoMies—The Poet's
prophetic Apostrophe to the Frogrefs of Free-'
dom throughout the World,
march 30. §
e To be Let,
ie (And pofleflion given on the ill of May)
A genteel three llory brick House,
IC 21 feet front, and 49 feet deep, with back buildings
0 and ftibles,at prefeut in the tenure of Major J aCH
s - son. Enquire at rfiTy South Third ftree<.
■o april a. §
16 JUST PUBLISHED, '
AND FOR. SALE AT THIS OFFIOJ,
le (Price a,5 Cents)
Reflexions on Monroe's View
OF TMS CONDUCT OF THE EXBCIfTIrt,
As published ia the
of GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
ae Under the signature of
b- SCIPIO,
of Tii 'jjiicb the Commercial Warfare of France is traced
is- to the French Fa&ion in this Country, as its Source,
and tbs Qppojttion, yfc.
Alajjacbufetts Di/hiEl.
By Order ot the Honorable John Lowttv,
Efquirr, Judge of the Diftriifl Court for
the Maflachufetts Diftridl,
(t "VJOTICE is hereby given to all persons
AN concerned," That a Libel is filed in f»id
Court by Christian G Grutzmacher, late Com
minder of the ship Corona, of and from Ham
burgh, and Henry Andrew Heins as agents Tor
the owners of said Ship, againfl sundry goods,
wares and merchandize, saved from fair! fliip
Corona, wrecked on Cape Cod within fii(l Dif
tridl on the 16th March laf\—which good*,
wares and merchandise, were consigned to di
vers persons in Philadelphia, in the Diftrifl of
Pennsylvania, and elsewhere—and that said Li
bel is filed as aforefaid, for the freight said to be
due to the Libelants on said goods, wares anil
merchandize, and for neceflary expences paid
by them which have arisen upon the fame—
And that trial will be had \ipon the aforelaid
Libel at a Diftrift Court to be hrrlden at the
Court-Houie in Bolton, on Mondav the eigh
teenth day of June ndVtt, at n o'clock, A. M.
Samuel Bradford,
" Marjhal of Majpicbufetts."
Dated at Bojlon, April / tawtf
\
TO BE SOLD,
40,959 acres of Land.
IN Greene County, Commonwealth of Pennsyl
vania, on the waters of Fiih and Wheeling
Crreks and Ten Mile Ran.
These 1 .and* are fertile and well timbered, and
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten years ago for
five (hillings per arre ; patented early in 1787, e
xcept 3700 acres, which were patented in 1791;
part of them were surveyed in 178.*. The tra£l
is between the Ohio and Monongahela. very con
venient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of Waftiington, from 14 to 16 from the
village of Greenelburgh and Wheeling.
On payment of one fourth of thepurchafe mo
ney, a reafonabte credit will be given for the resi
due. Enquire of thfc Printer,
april aT. $
TO BE SOLD,
26,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of Hew York, between th» northern
bounds of Pennsylvania and the Safqiiehanim
now, or late in the toy.r.fliips of H2tnden and •
Warren and county of Warren.
These Lands, irom their quality and situation,
are a very deurabl- ohjrcl for any man who means
to inreft his money to advantage
On payment of one third of the purchase mo
ney, a reasonable credit will' e given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer.
aptil 2T. 5
Valuable Stands for Bufinels.
FOR SALE—by the Subfcriler,
Two Lots of Ground,
Situate on the fcuth fide.of Chefnut-ftrect, be
tween Second and Third ftreets;—one containing
eighteen feet, and the other seventeen feet, more or
ess, on the said street, and both extending, the
lfme breadth, one hundred and forty-eight, more
or less, to Carter's alley.
There are, on Chefnut-ftreet, two two-story
BRICK HOUSES
(Numbers 8c and 8^)
Which may readily be made into one ; and, on
alley, there is a convenient, well built
htree-ftory
Brick House and Kitchen,
Almost new, which has two rooms on a floor
and a front,of eighteen feet on said alley.
This property is clear of groond-rent, and an
indisputable title will be given to the purchaser.
The three Houfcs will be fold feperately or toge
ther.
Further particulars may ht known on applica
'"""" "'ZACHAkIAk 'POULSON, 7 w.
No So, CHefnut-ftreet, or at the Library.
march 23. <[efißw
For Sale,
A Farm and Countat Seat,
SITUATED on the welt fide of the Schuylkill op
posite to Norris-town, seventeen miles from Phi
ladelphia — the farm contains 195 aces of land, 50
of which are woodland, about 40 of meadow, and
the Test arable land. The houfc and garden which is
large and well paled, stand in the most pie tent fili
ation, commanding a view of iho river, an iHand
which Uoppofite. and the village of Norris-town—
There is a lhad fifhery belonging to the place—'En
quire in Philadelphia, No. 96, North Third Street,
or on the prcmiies.
April 16 tawtf
Bafkenridge —tor sale
IT consists of 910 acres, almost all of which is
a fine rich Meadow, (the residence of the late
Burl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which are bounded on the
East by the river Pafaiek.
There are on it a number of buiMings, forming
a square of nearly three aercs—The dwelling house
is a vary convenient one, asdja fmaH eipcnce would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard consists of isoofinebearingengraf
ed Apple Tree?—and there is on other pirts ot said
trail near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great
variety of otW fruits, particularly Cherries of the
bell and most delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
Poreft Tress, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Itsfituation is about 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and 11 from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in cafe, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McF.UEN & Co. ,
No. 78, Chefnut -treet.
February a. .eodtf
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, proposing to contra# Mi busi
ness, offers this Estate for sale, on meocrate
■ terms. On it are one Bbft and three Atr Furnaces
. a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill with two pair of stones ; also a good Forge, all
' U peVfcft repair, as are ailthe W.ier Work. conneO
rfCltS there various branches The Air Furnace,
were lately built for the purpose of calling
" for this State.—There are about two thoulaed ncr«
5 of Land, one half of which is under wood, tlw other
■' verv fine arable Land, producing the bed Hav and
Failure. The Cannon lately mannfaOHred there,
fulIV proves the excellency of the metal, winch w
luperior to any in this country, and pmoably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one ot fixty-moe gw«
lately made, although some of the 24 were .nred
» into « pounders, have fmlfd on proving. The Imi
:» ationi. very eligible, particularly for
- manufa&ure, and a place ot arms lying .n tne ttaie
of Connecticut, and only 30 mil"# rrom several land
inzs on the HudWs river, an J having every advsn
- tage that can refnit from . plenty of waterMmfi
from > Urge natural pond, very near the W""®'
and which may be converted into a variety of.other
ulc&ll rurpofes. The purAiafer can be■accotnmods -
ed wtth all theftockand utensils, and have P 0^!"
v on or befoie the hrft of June next,
mav be madein the mean K roe for goinginto Blalt im
mediately thereafter, for every part w.Ubc delivered
in rood order, with forwe coal, Ore, &c.
, aon'v mMr Tofeph Anthony, tfi pßiladei
"r" David Brocks' Elq Reprefentanvr s
$ V Mr, D,v,dW P „e,man, -
thep-tmifes, or 10th,pr0...-rin^ewj^.^
Dee. ». 3"'*'
I Dee. »