Mntteu States Philadelphia Daily Advertiser. _
J&UMWR 1787.J
For Bolton,
HERALD,
-SHIImSI Elijah Bqwen, Maftfr,
A fine failing vtffel and will take freight low. apply
to the Master on board at Chefnut-ftreet Wharf, or
Joseph Anthony & Co.
_ june 1, diw
iOR SALKt
tju-Q THE SHIP
RICHMOND,
JUsT arrived from the East-
and lying at Latimer's
Live Oak and Cedar and in every refpeft as
Excellent a frame, as perhaps was ever put to
gether, copper bolted and (heathed. She is 80
feet keel 27} feet beam, 12 feet hold, 6 feet be
tween! decks and will carry 4,400 barreis oi
Flour. For terms, apply to
Mordtcai Lewis.
may 33 _
'LANDING,
At Walnut StFcet Wharf, from on board the
brig Amiable Matilda,- William Browa,
Master, JPrcm Bourdesnx,
Claret in hogsheads and in cases of
SUPERIOR QUALITY,
Brandy in Pipes,
FOR SALK.
Thomas & John Ketland.
Said Brig for tale,
With two pair four pound CAN
NON, and one pafr 1 *lb, CAR
RONADES.
V may 29 §
FOR LiVERPuOL,-
gr-rlL_ THE B!fir
a, LIBERT
• Isaac Vredenbercer, Master,
A-g°°d new veflel, fails well—
'Lyiipg iffoiO s Wharf, wili fail about thetenrho
next month, a considerable part of her Cargo bein
engaged*—For freight or paffajfeapnlv to
JOHN SKVRIN,
No. 96, North Front Street.
N. EfT The Liberty is intended to return one of
the firft fall vefltkto this pprt.
may 29 dtf
FOR LIVERPOOL,
The remarkably 'aft failing Brig
PENNSYLVANIA,
Jerehtjh Tatem, master.
Shs will fail in ten days—for
freght or paflage, apply to JAMES TARD.
Walnut-ftrect Wharf.
may 43 diet
For Sale, or Charter,
j—& THE ARMED SHIP
BEL VID E R E,
Jonathan Rf.ynolds, Mufier,
Wfc- 2L&r^LYINGat Jeffeand Robert Wain's
burthen 256 tows, built at
New-York, by Mr. Chtefeman in 1793> l* vc
oak, cedar tnd locust—was completely coppered in
London lad year with 28 ounce hard rolled navy
copper, and copper bolted. She 16 w>cll known to
.be a Haunch and faft failing (hip, i« well found—
mounts ten carriage guns and may be sent to sea in
a few lay» at a vary littk expence. For terras of
charter or price on a liberal credit, apply on board
to capr. Reynold's, or at No. 26, North Front
street, to
RICHARD D. ARDEW.
WHO HAS FOR SALI Ofl BOARD SAIU SHUr
10 Tons dry white lead
5 Tons of (hot
13 Tons rolled fhect
20 BaksEnglifh Duck, aflbrted numbers
10 Tons whiting
§s* The Ship Belvidere, if not fold or Char
tered before Wednesday next, will take freight for
.London.
may 19 §
For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut ilreet Wharf,
195 ca(ks of nail? aflorted
20 bales of fail canvass, from No. I to 8
53 casks yellow ochre
1 5 tierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 doz. each
London particular ? Madcira wines
Irtfka market )
Tenenffe do. in hog(headsand pipes
Old Port do. in hhds.
bottles
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Muflinets &c.
afTorted for the Weft-India market
4, 10, ai>d 9 inch cables and 10 coils of cordage
Writing flakes, ink Uands and presses
20 purcheons Jamaica rum
1 bale seaming twine
160 bundles (heathing paper
TUE BRIG /
-AMAZQN y
For Sale, or Charter.
Nicklin & Griffith.
April 7 turh&f.tf
I JUST ARRIVED,
9a tte brigGayofo,capt.Binghani, from St.Martins
A quantity of SALT,
of an excceljent quality
A few groce Porter Sottles, new
And twenty casks Vinegar
jjp> Also, FOR SALE,
Enquire of
Jehu Hollingfworth & Co.
No. 22, Little vVater street, South,
aprii 20. 5_
" • FOR SALE.
SjSnSSjHavwnah Sugar
200 Hides
Will be landed to morrpw, at Willingsand Fran
cis's wharf, from on board the brig Ailive, Will
iam Williams, master.
faid Brigfor sale,
- And may take in immedi
ately after discharged.
Apply to
Jehu Hollingf worth & Co.
march 3Qu §
A few boxes of Umbrellas \
To be Spld rheap—r.by
Mordecai Lewis.
may 17 diw
By John Fenno, N O, 119 Chejnut Street.
PHILADELPHIA
This day Publijhed,
AND FOR SALE, AT
Wm. Young's Book-store,
No. 52, Chefnut, corner of Second fltreet,
On-fine woven Paper, xvitb Elegant Engravings >
Dedicated to the President of the United States,
The Studies of Nature,
Translated from th? French of
James Henry Bernardin de St. Pierre,
By.HENRY HUNTER, D. D.
r very ingenious, interring and inflxu&ive
X work has finc« its firft publication, gone
through four successive impressions, under the an- I
thor's immediate infre&ion ; besides a variety of j
printed editions in different parts of the European
continent.
No hook displays a more sublime theology, in
culcates a pursr morality, or breathes a more ar
dent and expansive philanthrophy St. Pierce ena
bles us to conteniplate this universe with other
eyes ; has furnifhed new arguments to combat
otheifm ; has eftablifbed, beyond the power of
contradi&ion, the do&rine of, a nniverfal provi
dence. has excited a warmer inter eft in favor of ;
fuffering humanity, and has discovered sources,
unknown before ot moral and iatclledaal enjoy- ,
ifaent*
i Ihe avidity with which the clergy and other
learned characters in New-F.ngland, have purchaf
! Ed the Epglifll editicp of this delightful perform
ance, and the opit.ion entertained by them ; and
warranted by experience, that although written
| before the " Age of Reafbn," a part of it con
| tains a more solid and compleat refuration of it, i
than any thing publifted finer, are perhaps a lulft
cient rec emendation of the Studies of Nature ; ,
in which the Botanist, the natural and chrillian !
1 Philosopher, the friend of *rder and government
are interclted, and by which they will be
equally gratified.
-S.S no pains nor expence have been spared in
procuring luifable paper and able artists, to render
the work worthy ©f the public; and as'the Sub-
expreffed their approbation ps it, the
publisher flatters himlelf, that gentleman, who on
account of the bad pap*r and print of fume Ameri
can .edit*>n.v give generally the preference to the
Englilh, will honor this with a comparison, before
they purchase.*
The Naval Gazetteer ;
Being a complcat Geographical Dictionary, contain
ing a full and accurate acc6un,fe alphabetically arrang
ed, of all the Coun i i£s ar d islands in the known
world ; (hewing their latitude, foundings, and Ration
for anchorage; with a particular description of the
several Bays, Capes, Channels, Coves, Creeks, Cur
rents, Gu'lphs, Harbor*, Havens, Lakes, Oceanj, Ra
ces, Rivers, Roads, RQcks, Sands, Shoa's, Sounds,
Straiti, Tides, Variation of the Compels. £tc. To
gether with a particular relation of the fhap.e and ap
pearance ?t sea, of the several Headlands, Ifthmufcs,
Peninsulas, Poios, Piomonfo ies, and whatever 'is" of
use o; importance to the Master, Pilot, Commander
or Seaman of any ship or vcflel, in navigating the wa
try element. *
Alfoy Comprehending
Ample dircftions for failing into Or out of the differ
ent Ports, Straits and Harbor of the four quarters of
the world; and for avoiding dangers on the various
and extended coast ; in which more than twelve thou
j fond diftinft names and places, See. are treated of and
explained. With acorreft set of Charts, 1 vols. Bvo.
By the Rev. JOHN MAL.HAM.
('£3" rt)is has been p.onounced the moil ufeful and
the cheapest: hrtok pubiifhed i« America. It was un
det taken several years since, under the auspices of
Lord Sandwich v, hile he was at the head of the Ad«
miralty ©f England, and from which every afftfU
ance nefceffary to complete so arduous a work, was
readily furnifhed, but it never made its appearance
until last year. The favor it obtained with Mjfters of
vessels and other gentlemen concerned in Navigation
induced the pu'oiifher 10 prepare this edition wherein
the imeiican Ports, Hirbors,&c. have been corrected
by a gentleman of great abilities, and exleofivc infor
mation on the lubjeft.
may ar. eaw4w
TO BE SO CD, LET,
Or exchanged for property in the city of
Philadelphia.
A Valuable Two S ory Stone House, and lot
or piece of ground, in Potts Town, in the
county of Montgomery. Tlie house is in good
repair, and the lot made into a ufeful garden ;
there are a number of good fruit trees therein,
the fitua'ion is high and healthy and one of the
best for any kind of bufirefs in the town, pos
session will be given immediatery---for terms ap
ply to William Nichols
No. 117, RaceJlreet.
may 29 * » *§
The following Certificates of
FUNDED DEBT QF THE UN IT ED STATES
STANDING on theßooksof thetrcafuiy, were
forwarded for Lofcdon by the ship William
Penn, Captain Jofiah, which hath l>6en captured,
and the Certificates supposed to be loft, viz :
3164. Ba. Deferred debt,'in the name of Rev.
Edward (iiddy, of Thredrea, in Cornwall,
Great Britain, datedjune 2, 1797*- Certificate
No. 10,072.
802r.. 1?. Six per Cent. Stock, in the name of
Edward Home, of Be vis mount, Hants, Great
Britain, dated May 30, 1797- No. 15T96.
3620. 50. Deferred Debt, in the name of Will
iam Manning, of Ormfby, in the county of Nor
folk, in England, dated July 10, 1797. No
- 10199.
20183. 72. Three per Cent. Stock, in the name
of Jannet Mathew, of Upper Seymour ftrect,
-London, Widow, dated o«slober 31 X 797. No.
11820.
For the renewal of the above Certificates, ap
plication is intended to be made at the fata office of
}he Treasury of the United States,—and all per
sons concerned aredefired to tak notice.
ALSO—— IN THE SAME VKSSKL,
Fifteen shares Stork of the Bankof United States in
thenameof William Manning,of Ormfby, coun
ty of Norfolk, Ergland, viz. Three Certificates
for five shares each, dated January I, 1797-
No. 25982, 25083, 25984.
For the renewal of w Sich,application is meant to
be made to the« said Bank of the United, States, —
and all persons concerned therein are desired to
take notice*
JN. VAUGHAp.
Philatjelphia, may 4. §6w
The following Certificates of Shares
IN the North American' Land Company, '(landing
on the Books of said Company in the name of
Dan el Lifter, of Hackney, in the county of Mid
dlefcx, England—viz. No. 2151> representing
1309610 13105, ten shares—No. 1150 —13066 to
13075, ten (hares—tto. 2149 —13056 to 13065,
ten shares—No. 2148 —11509 to 11518, ten (hares
—No.* 2147—11471 v to 11480 —Amotcntif-g to
Forty Shares, were forwarded for London by the
{hip William Pe~n, which having been captured,
said certificates are supposed to be loft,; Tor the r«.
newal ef which, applicajion will be made to the
Board of tht said company.
Daniel Neal Lijler.
may 1 *d6vv
- SATURDAY EVENING, JUNE % t 1798.
Collector's Office,
Pbdadcljjbia, May ic, 170?..
FOR SALE AT PUBLIC AUCTION.
AT the Cuftom-Houfc, on Friday, the fif
teenth of June, 1798, the fallowing mer
chandize, which remain in the Custom House
store* more than nine months, unclaimed l>y the
owners or consignees thereof:
(XII) eight half faggots of steel
(TD) 202 one bale pirthWeb
(FL) a quantity of steel
one cafe lamps
C&C oneicife bobbin
(W) one small box medicine
AB 203 one matted cafe Dutch books
I&C one keg herrings
( W) one small box of samples of buttons
~DJ 1a $ bales girthweb
"VH] 200 one ditto ditto
Nj 400 one ditto ditto
(No mark) eight jars olives
(ditto) one bundle slates
[LS] one small box locks dt 15 J
Will be fold for Cafli,
At eight o'clock on the F.veningof MONDAY
the eleventh da,y of June next, at the M«r
chants' Coffee house, in Philadelphia, if
not previously disposed of at pri
vate sals,
THE FOLLOWING TRACT? OF 1
Valuable patented LAND,
In the county of Glynn, in the (late,of Georgia,
and th? counties of Bath and Randolph in ihe
stAte of Virginia,
;000 acres at the head of St. Simon's Sound and
confluence of Turtle and Alatamahi rivtrs, ad
joining the commons of the town of Brunfwick.
41000 acres on the Great Satilla and on the head
waters of the Little Satilla, adjoining lands of
Wm.M'lntofh, John Howell, & F«rdinandO'Neal.
25000 acres on Great Satilla, aajoining lands of
Freeman Lewis and John HowelK
44000 acre 1 ' i« Bath county, on both fides of
Green Briar River, adjoining lands ot Jacsb War
rick, Daniel M'Cullumand/ohnDilley, including
3300 acres of prior furvcys.
41000 acres in Bath county, on the east fide of
Cowpafture River, aod on both fidee of the wag
gon road leading from the warm springs to.Staun
ton, including 5000 acres of* prior surveys
.40000 acres in the county of Randolph, on Bu
chanan River, adjoining lands of Thomas Wilson,
and including 4588 acfes prior surveys.
30000 acre# in Bath county, on the east fide of
Cowpaflure River, on the waters of said river, and
of Caffpafture River, adjoining lauds of Joseph
Grubb, and incjuping 5000 acres prior surveys.
The Georgia lands will be fold in trafls of one
thousand acres each, the others in the quantities
and tr*&s alyovi described.
Persons desirous to examine the titles and drafts
of the above mentioned land, will call for that
purpose on Benjamin R. Morgan, at No. 41,
Arch street ; proposals of purchase may be made
to either of the fubferibers.
T/FITZIMONS,
No. —, Chefuut ftrect.
B.R.MORGAN,
No. 41, Arch ftreeti
JEREMIAH PARSER,
No. 9, North Eighth street.
may 14. v dts
By virtue of a dectee of the honorable the high court
of Chancery qf Maryland, the fubferiber will fell
at Public Sale, on the premiers, on Mon lay, the
of June next at 11 o'clock in the forenoon,
r T'"HAT valuable and well known Lot ftf Ground,
X No. 53, aad part of No. 54, property
of Nicholas Sluby, merchant of this city, situated on
Thames-street, in that part of Baltimore city, called
Fells-Point, containing 38 square prrches, with, all
the buildings and improvements thereon. There are
ereftrd on this valuable property, several large and
commodious bri k Warehouses, capable of contain-1
iog irorn 15 to 20,000 barrels of flour, with a frame
shed adjourning thereto, fufficientiy capacious to
hold loco hogshead qf Tobacco; in perfect fafety
from the weather, from this well known property
is extended into the deepest water in this harbor, an
extenfiveand well conftrs£ted wharf,bounding on the
w,ater 6co feet and upwards, and capable of receiv
ing (flips of any burthen at the lowcft tides, from
the many advantages this property is known to peffefs,
it is eUeemed equal if rot superior, in point of com- ,
mercial benefit, to any in thjp city, and mud be a de
lirableob eft to those inclined to purchase so valuable
an eUate. It is unnecefTary to fay more on this fub
jc&, as those intending to purcha e, will have an op
portunity of viewing the premises , previous to ,the
day of lai?.
The terms on which the above .property is fold,
are. that the purcbafer shall give appro /ed r.ego iablc
notes, with licurity to the tiullee for the payro» ntof
one half the purchase money with inteieft, within
three months, and the residue with interefl, within
fix months from the day of sale.
SAMUEL MOALE.
may 28. d:?.<,thje.
Canal Lottery, No. 11. '
Considerably more than Half Drawn.
Draws twice a week, every Monday & luefday
For Sale, Seven Dollars each, at
WILLIAM BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers office, No. 64 South Second-street,
where check are kept for examination r.nd
registering in thi?, City of Washington No. 2.
and Paterfon Lotteiies and information where
Tickets may he had inmost of the Lotteries au
thorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
State of the Wheel*
One prizeof 10,000 dollars ' 10,000
Five 4,000 20,000
Two 2fCCO 4,000
Nine l,oco 9,000
Nineteen 500 9»56«f
Forty-f -ur 200 8,800
With a full proportion of the one hundred
and of the fifty dollar prizes—the priqe of tick
ets willfoon rife, particularly on account of the
five 4,000 dollar prizes that remain in the wheal
until the laftday of drawing.
§pr Note, the business of aProker duly at
tended to in all its branches at the above office,
may 24 w&stf
FOR SALE,
At the Store of Jesse 69 s Robet Walk,
On Spruce street Wharf, /
Port Wine inpipes,hjids. &qr.calks
Lisbon Wine in pipes and quarter casKs
And a few pipes of excell«nt Madeira Wine
may 1.6. " eotf
FOR SALE, ——-
A Black Man,
WHO has five years and a half to serve, is a
good coachman, an excellent waiter, and
has been accustomed to marketing for a family—
his age about thirty two year®. For further parti
culars, apply at the office if this Gazette,
may 15. §
OX BEEF.
ico Barrels > of B ef of b®ft quality, put
50 half Barrels ) up with care for long voyages,
roo Barrels cf Conne&icwt Pork.
50 Barrels of Corine&iciit Tongues.
WINE S.
35 Pipes of Madeira Wine
30 Pipes of Port
30 half calks of Sherfy
3c Casks of Lisbon
30Q Cases of French Claret, of excellent
quality.
800 Barrels of Scraped FLQUK>
Too Barrels of Condemned, and
20 Boxes of heft Durham MuftarJ.
For Sale by
John Skyri.n,
Landenberger's IVbarJ.
may 4 eodtf
To behold, in Burlington,
laimediately oppoli;® tbe wharf orf*thy. river De
laware,
A Large new two story brick House, and Lot
sixty lcet in front and one hundred deep—
The House consists of two large paflours, one - 7
by 21, the other 19 by 21, an entry in the mid
dle, three large bed chambers and one fmiali one, j
well finiiked garrets, a large kitchen, pantry, (tore
room, &c. with good cellars, good water and gar
den, all new, well Goilhed and in perfed order.
Immediate# poffeflion wiil be given. Enquire of
Edward Bonfall & Co. or of Francis Durdin, Bur
lington, who will inform the price and (hew the ,
prtnufes.
may 24 3^7 w
Bank of the United States,
Mayistl?, 1798.
NOTICE is hereby given, that previous to
the renewal of.Certincates for Shares of
(his Bank, which may be loft or destroyed, it
will be required in future, that a particular de
fer iptTon of the original certificates fhotild be ad
vertiftfd twice a week for three months in the
Newfpapcr called " The Ga-zette of tbe United
44 States £s* Philadelphia Daily Adverlifer,"
informing of the loss or deftnnSlion, and the in
tention of the party to apply for 1 renewal.
In fix. calendar months after the expiration of
the advertising As above, the New Certificates
will be iflued upon the elaimants producing
proof of their having been advertised as requir
ed, together with the tefiimony of the loss or
deftrudiion, and giving the usual security to in
demnify the Bank against any injury which may
arise from the renewal.
By Order of the Directors,
G. SIMPSON, CaJhier.
may 15. ia.v6w
Schuylkill Permanent Bridge.
THE Subscribers being the fix persons firft namcjd
in the Letters Patent, iflued by the Governor
of thisCommonwealih, by virtue of the A£l of Gen
eral Aflemb'.y ®f the 16th ult. for incorporating the
Company —hereby give notice agreeable to the 3d
fe£tionof the said law, that ihey have appointed, and
hereby request a meeting of the fubferibers at the
State House in the City of Philadelphia, on the thirty
firft day of this infant. May, at ten o'clock in the
forenoon, for the purposes mentioned in the said 3d
fettion, which is hereafter published for the inform
ation of the Stockholders.
Richard Peters»
John Perott 9
Matthew Conn ell,
William Sheaff,
George Bickham,
William Nichols.
Philadelphia, ift May, 1798,
Se&ion 3. And be it fur the* enabled by the authority
aforejaid, That the fix Persons firft named in the Let
ters Patent, shall as scon as cpnyquieptly may
tei vfealingthc fame, give notice in two or more pub
lic Sews Papeis in Philadelphia, one whereof (hall
be in the German Language of a time and place by
them to be appointed, not less than thirty days from
the time »f iffuieg the -fir tt notice, at which lime and
place the said fubicribers fiisll proceed to oiganize the
said Corporation and lhall cnoofe by a major'ty of
votes of the said fubicribeis by ballot, to be delivered
in Perlon or by JVoxy, duiiy authorized—rone Presi
dent. tvyelvc Dindlors, one Treasurer, and such other
officers as they fliall think nrcefiary to conduft the bu
finefs<v' the faii Company for one year, and until o
'ner officers lhall he chofan, and may make such bye
laws, rules, Orders and-regulations, not inconfifient
with the laws of this Commonwe'lth, as A'alJ be ne
ccfTary lor the well ordering the affairs of the said com
pany : Provided always, that no person shall have
more than fifty vOtcs at'any. elcftion or in detei mining
any qucftioa arifiog at such meetings whatever num
ber of fharej he or to-: beeoifled to, and thi t eat h
ctrfon (hall be entitled to one vote for e very (hare
by him or her held under the said number. ,
FOR S4LP.
A THREE Story Brick House, on the nortll
fide of Spruce-street near Second-street,
adjoining the wall of Mr. Jones's garden and j
formerly occupied by David Lenox, efq.—This
house is incompleat repair with back buildings,
confiding of a Piazza, Kitchen andahmdfome
Dining Room over the Kitcheja.
As any Person inclined to purchase will view
the premises, a jrwore particular defcripiion iscon
fiderpd uifbecefTary.
The terms of payment will be one third cash,
one third in 6 months and the remainder in 12
months with interest. For further information,
En quire of JOHN CR AIG,
No. 11 Dock-flreet.
mav 16 <5
Salilbury Estate.
rH£ Subscriber, proposing to contra# his bufi- j
ness, offers this Estate for sale, on moderate *
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mil 1, with two pair of stones; alfoagood Forge, all
in perfeift repair, as are all the Water Works conne£f
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built for the pufpofe of casting Cannon
for this State. are abou' two thousand acres
of I.and, one half of which is under wood, theother
very fittc arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Pasture. The Cannon lately mannfa&ttred there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
(uperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one of sixty-nine gam
lately made, although some of the 24 were bored
into 32 pounders, have faihd on proving. The fitu
ationis very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufafture, and a place of arms lying in'the state
of Conne£licut,and only 30 miles from several land»
ings on the Hudson's river, an*! having every advan
tage that can »efult from a plenty of water issuing
from a large natural pond; very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of otfier
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can beaccommodat
ed wiih all theftnekand uteofils, and have pofieflion
onor before thc'firlt of June next, and preparation
may be made in the meantime for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every part wiM bedelivered
in good order, with foroe coal, Ore, &c. &c. For
termj, apply to Mr. fofeph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Crocks, Esq. one ofthe Reprefenta'ivea
in Conorefsfcr this Stare ; Mr, D ivirl Watrrman, on
theprenw'e.s, or tothcp-ocriefor in Nc >*'-Yorlc.
' WILLIAM NEILSCIM
Dee. 1. iiwvf
\_VOLUMR XIII.
C 0 N G *R £ S S.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 16.
Mr. D. Foster made a report on the peti
tion of Joseph Cowperthwaite, Naval Agent
of Georgia, who prayed to he rebated of the'
payment of a film of 800 dollars of which he
had been robbed. The report was unfavoura
ble* and ordered to lie on tlie table.
On motion of Mr. Sew a i,i, an additioual
member was added to the committee for th*
protection of commerce and the defence of
the country, in place of Mr. Pinckney.
Mr. Sewall said, tht committee for the
protection of commerce and defence of the
country, to whom it was referred to enquire
into v. hat measures would be proper to be ta
ken refpe£tin£ Aliens; were of opinion their
inftrudiins did not go to a fufficient extent,
and directed him to propose to the Houle tlie
following resolution for adoption :
" Jhfulwd, that the committee on* that fart of the Pre
lident's Speech •which relates to commerce aid the defence
of the Country be authorised to consider the danger ivhicb
may result by means of' Aliens, and other difyffe&ed or fe~
ditious Persons refding •within the United Sfates, and
ivhat measures ought to be talen for fccurlng, removing,
or otherivife reflritting such poivers, and to report by bill
or otherivife T
Ordered to lie on the table.
The Hotife having again resolved itfelf in
to a committee of the whole on the State of
the Union, and the question for striking out
the third lection being relumed,
Mr. Gallatin (aid, this led ion contem
plated giving to tlie President jhe power of
admitting men into military service, under the
name of Volunteer Corps, who are liable to
be called upon to do military duty, at any
time when the President shall think proper,
after they shall have offered, and lie has ac
cepted of their service. Upon tlie firft cOnsi
deration of this seCtion an objection was made'
on conllitutional ground to this, mode of rais
ing Joldiers, fuppof:ng they were to be consi
dered as Militia. To this it was answered
that these volunteers were not to be considered
as Militia, but as making a part of the army
of the United States*
It appeared to him difficult precisely to de
lineate and define what kind of Corps this is
to he. In some reflects it will be similar to
the Militia ; in some refpeets to the regular
army of the United States, and again distin
guishable from both. They are in some de
gree similar to the Militia, inasmuch as they
are to remain at home, except upon special
calls of the President to do duty. The Volun
teers, when called into attual service, and
whilst remainingin it, are to be under the fame
rules, and entitled to the fame pay and emo
luments as the other troops. The Militia are
like these Volunteers fubjett to the fame rules
and regulations, , and to the fame pay and
emoluments with the army of the United
States; and like Volunteers, when not
called into service, are not fubje£t to therule9
and regulations of the army, nor entitled to>
their pay and emoluments. In these particu
lars, therefore, this corps very much resem
bles the Miljiia.
In other refpefts, these Volunteers very
muchrefetnble the army of the United States;
inasmuch as they are to be enlisted (no N t, pro
perly so by name, but in a way equally
tual by giving their consent to serve) they are
also to be conlidcred as making part of the
army, though remaining at home ; they are
also like the army, inasmuch as their officers
are not appointed by themselves, or by the
Individual States, as in the Militia, but by the
President of rive United States ; and inasmuch
that they will be obliged to do duty for the
whole two years, if required, whilst the Mili
tia do duty by rotation, according to regula
tions provided for the purpose. Seeing, there
fore, that these Volunteers are in some re
fpedts like the Militia, and i % others like the
regulars, it was not to be wondered at that a
con/litutional objection should have arisen.
The Conftittition does not recognize more
than two descriptions of tro®ps, viz. Army
and Militia. The _%*: ny proposed to beraifed
by means of these Volunteers is of a kind nor
known in the Constitution, but seems to b£of
a description about halfway betwixt a regular
landing army and a militia. If the principle
proppfed to be adopted in this fedion be ad
mitted, the consequence tiiay be, that all the
regulations provided in the Cnnflitution for
securing a good Militia, may be evaded, and
the whole of the Militia he turned into a kind
of Public Standing Army. For flippofing that
the regulations for the government of these
Volunteers aremore favourable inrheir etfeds
than those provided for the Militia, and it is
more advantageous to a man to belong to a
Volunteer Corps than to the Militia, citizens
would generally leave the Militia, and ar
range themselves under the head of Volun
teers. It is true, there are some provilions in.
this feition which may have a tendency to
prevent this ; but on the other hand, there
are some provnions which would encourage
them to do it. For ip.ftance, the clause which
directs that these Volunteers shall only be em
ployed in their own, or an adjoining State, is
an advantage, as the Militia, whilst in service,
can be called any where as-ordinary regular
troops. The objections, therefore,„ againffc
raising Volunteers of this description are, that
it will have a tendency to destroy the Militia,
and convert the whole of it into an army,
thereby transferring the power of appointing
the Officers from the Individual State?, to the
President of the United States.
Waving, however, the conftitutionalobjec
tion, he make a few remarks on the ex
pediency of the measure. It appeared to him,
on the one hand, that the advantages contem
plated by this clause, w fll not be obtained,
and 011 the other, that great inconveni
encies would arise from carrying it into etf'eCf.
he believed also the advantages might be ob
tained without having rccourf'e to this provi
[ fion. If the real intention of tjie bill is only
to induce a number of young men to make a (
tender of their services as Volunteers for the
defence ot the United States, he believed the
provisions already existing in the Militia Law
are fufficient to effeft the objedt. Byth;H- law
it is provided that a certain number of Vo
lunteer Corps may be attached to each batta
lion of the Militia ; and if a number of yoi-ng
menwifhto make a voluntary tender of Their
service, lie saw no difficulty in their doing it
as a part of the militia of the United States*
As far as refpefts the (tare of Pennsylvania,
feveralot the batralions, which are entitled by
law to have Light Infantry, or Rifle Men, at
tached to them, have them not a: pre lent*
And he believed scarcely any- of the LightInfantry Volunteer Corps, or Troopsof Horse
of this city, have got their full complement
of me 1 ; "there could be no difficulty, there
fore, iTi young men making themselves Volun
teers, either byeltablilh ng new corps of mili
tia or by joining such as aie at present on foot.
How tar the deficency in respect to these vo
lunrary corps might exist in other parts of the
Ull.on, he could not fay ; but he recollected
tlvir tne gentleman from S. Carolina (Mr.
Ha per) when freaking on a subject in some
decree domiciled with this, had said, that
though there appeared to be many troops ot
horse to the southward, they rather existed
on paper than otherwif;. He supposed, there
fore, that there was a good opening for volun
teer young men in that quarter. Besides, the
law of latl session, ordering a detachment of
go,ooo Militia, provides that the President
shall have the power of accepting of any Vo
lunteer Corps of Militia who shall offer their
service. He did not fee, therefore, any ad
vantage to be derived tt> the defence of the
country, by means of this clause, which could
not be obtained by means of the laws already
fexiting.
The committee were told the other day,
that by virtut of thpbill, a number of Volun
teer corps would be raised, who would afTo
ciate themselves for the purpose of learning
the Military Art, which would be of great
service to the Union. He law nothing of this
fort in this bill which was not lonimon to all
the Militia. It would; therefore, be a mat
ter of choice, and it was the fame with all
those campanies of Militia of which he had
spoken, the lighf infantry companies and
troops of horse belonging to the militia having
uniformly taken more pains than the other
Corps k-f the Militia to make themselves mas
ters of tu.litary d.fcipline.—lt was said also
at the fame time, thaf these corps weie to no
minate ihdir own officers, and that they would
receive their cominiflions from the Pieli. ant.
He did not underltand th.sfrom the bill ; it
contains no pfovifiou of the kind, and if it did
such provision would be unconft tutional.
The bill fays the Officers of these Volunteer
Corps shall be appointed by the Pielident,
and the Conflitutton directs that the President
or Heads of Department (hall appoint all Of
ficers whose appointment is not otherwise
provided by ilie Conflitution. If these young
men were to enrol themselves as a part of the
Militia, they wotild then in theftate of Penn
sylvania, have the choice of their own officers
by law, but, accordi«g 'o the proposed effa
blifhineni, they cannot do th'S. They may
recommend a perl' 11 as an officer, but this
could not be called a nominal ion of an officer.
But he believed serious objections might be
found to th s provifiou 011 the ground of expe
diency. What is to be the organization of
thele corps f They are to be dillinfl from the
Militia, it is not proposed that they should
individually enlist, but form themselves into
allocations, which would be literally Mili
tary Alfociat ons, and Military AlTociations to
last for,two years. To conlift of whom! Of
those persons, who, from their (ituation in
life, are a! le to arm, clothe and equip them
ftlves at the roivn expence. It was therefore
givingan exclusive privilege to a certain class
of men (young merchants, lawyers and others)
who are poirelfed ">f more wealth than their
poorer neighbours, to form a Military AlTb
ciation. And for what purpose i They are
liable to be calle-i out to do Military duty in
any manner that the Prelident may think pro
per. 'I hey are to be altogether at his dilpoli
tion. Here,, then, is an alfociation of men,
authorized by law, a Military AHbciation,
and w hen thus organized, to be put within
the power of the President of the United
States, to be called into action, whenever he
pleases. For thare is no limitation in this
clause, as in the cafe of railing the Prov.lional
Army, that those men (hail be called into
service in cafe ot war, mvalion, or imminent
danger of invasion j but the President may ac
cept of tiieir services at any time. There is 110
limitation, except that wh'ch is upon the du
ration o/the law. The President is also to
accept whoin, and reject whom h<- pleases. So
thai if there be evils to be apprehended from 1
the exigence of a Stand : ng Army ; if there
was at any time ground ot alarm from efla
blifhments of thi.- kind endangering the exis
tence of Public Liberty, it would be inipof
fibleto foiin a Standing Army more dange
rous than this, t ere are men who, in thefirrt
place are to associate themselves, not here
and there nor taken 11d1lcr.nl nately, but men
of a peculiar cad, who are to aflociate ihem
fel es under the President, and to be called
upon to do duty by him. it need not be said,
that no danger is to be apprehended from the
Prefidem's abusing this power—and that we
ought to have confidence in him; for, if
a majority of this house are ready to fay that
no danger is to be apprehended from efta- '
blifhments of this kind, and that Standing
Armiesare never abused—who 1 ave discard
ed all those principles favourable to liberty
which heretofore actuated the councils of this
country, no arguments which he could make
life of would have any effect upon their minds.
But he took it for granted, that Standing Ar
mies were considered as a dangerous weapon,
and ought to be guarded againfl. It wasfroin
this conviClion, that he thought it unneces
sary to fay any thing on the danger of encou- '
raging these eftablifliments ; and if that prin
ciple was admitted, he would fay that the
army now proposed, would be a Standing
Army of the worll kind, as the men are to colt
nothing, extept w hen in service, and as they
are to be unlimited in their number. He
knew it was not in our power (our revenues
not being fufficient for it) to raise a Standing
Army in the o;dinary way, large enough to
prove dangerous to the liberties of the cottn- i
try ; but t-lje manner in which this force, is J
proposed to be raised, removes the great fecu- i
rity which we otherwise (hould have from our '
inability to pay a large Standing Army.
Nor could Mr. G. believe that the advan- '
tages which gentlemen promised themselves
would result to the defence of the country '
from the service of these young men. For
who are the men who are to form these corps ? |
They are men who can afford to arm, cltithe j
and equip themselves ; and could it be ex- j
petted, Mr. G. asked, that Young Men, in
the situation of life which these young men j
tnull be in, would wish to enlist themselves •
as private soldiers for two years? He should
suppose not. These young men would be I
molt hkely to repel any sudden invasion ; t
Would be active and fcrviceable to take a tour ■
of duty for three or fix months, in common i
with their fellbw citizens of the Militia ; but !
it is not confident with the principles of hu- |
man nature to suppose, that young men of !
this description who have got other pursuits j
in view, and who wish to effablifh themlelves '
inbulinefs, would be willing to lay all aside •
for the bufinel's of a soldier. For a cafe of '
emergency, or as Officers, he should suppose
them willing to engage in the service, but not
as common soldiers. j
Mr. G. did not believe, therefore, that the .
service which ihefe young men expefled to '
be called upon to perform was a military fer- ■
vice of two years. He believed few of them •
would be willing to enter, if they thought
they were the next day liable to be called up-
t
•o to perform tw<? years service private sol
diers, though they might be ready to take
their full (hare, or more, of Military duty.
Upon the whole, Mr. G. said, it appeared
to him that thisfection contemplated the etec
tion of a (landing Military Force of the very
worlt kind, to confitt of young men not regu
lated by law, but by alfociation. In fhorr, it
was, in his idea, a plan to arm one description
of men, exclUively of othfcrs, and give them
I to the P-efident of the United States, to be
used as he plea fed and what security had they
that they would not be used for dangerous
purposes ? If he wasmidaken in hisconftruc
tion of this bill, he wished to be rectified }
but, with his prefentimprellions, he mult hope
the fettion would be (truck out.
(To be eotitinned.)
%w ©a3ette*
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY EVENING, June 2.
COMMUNICATION.
The propriety of wearing some badge of diftinc
tion 16 suggested to the different volunteer corps
now forming in this city. Whether ft is proper to
wear any badge merely for the purpose of denot
ing the political i'rntiments of our fellow citizens,
is a quettion which has created some doubt ; but
that it i 9 proper to distinguish those who now so
gallantly offer their services to their country, mult
be obvifus to all It haanow become neccllary to
give a military appearance to ths United States.
Nothing perhaps can be better calculated to excite
the military ardor of the people, or to impress up
on the minds of the more ignoraht class of the
community, that throifgh the rapacity and perfidy
of France, preparation is as necessary as war is in
evitable. Upon the bulk oi mankind, parade,
and even ostentation, moil forcibly operates, and
the fight of a feather or an uniform, may give
greater aid than could at fir ft be imagined, to mo
tives of duty and patriotism. It is befidss neces
sary, that the enthusiasm which animates the breasts
of Americans, (hould be rendered viGble to the
wnrld, that it (hould be known how great is our
strength ; wherein itcoi;fifts ; what is the number
of our troops ; and of whom they are composed.
It is not fufficient for this purpose to wear only thr
cockade, since that is worn by persons who neither
are nor mean to become foldicrs, and they ought
fur. ly to be excluded from the honor attached to
vo untarily undertaking the defence of our liberty
an independence.
A&uated by these opinions, the volunteer com
pany of Philadelphia Grenadiers have entered into
a resolution to wejr at all times a black feather in
r heir hats, and to appear npon Sundays in full uni
form. I? is hoped that this example will be fol
lowed The effe<st cannot be injurious ;it is be
lieved th»t it would be found to be beneficial.
To the Volunteers of Philadelphia, New-Tori,
Baltimore, &c.
B ETHREN,
It is my sincere wish that, as soon as we
get our cioathing anil are organised, we (hall
meet' re ularly n Sundays, tor, the pur
pose of attending divine service. As per
sons . f various r liginus denominations will
compose the companies, it will be advifea
ble to attend tHe different places of worftu'p
alternaie y If this recommendation (hould
meet with the approbation of my fellow
foldicrs, the belt eff.Ss will undoubtedly
bethercfult. Our morals, if we are seri
ous, will b« improved ;rhe cioathing which
we shall wear as soldiers will alf > answer for
our dress as citizen# on the sabbath : and a
military enthusiasm will dc created which
will greatly encreafe our numbers.
A VOLUNTEER
Cj" Such printers throughout the U•• it
ed States as wish well to the Volunteeri of
America., will please to give the foregoing
bints a place in their papers.
At an annual meeting of tire CoYporation
of the Chofrn Freeholders, for the County
of Suflex, in the State of New-Jersey,
held at Newton, on the loth of May,
179#.
Major Thomas Paul, from a Committee
appointed for that purpose, reported the
following address :
To JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States.
sir,
FEELING, in common with the whole
American people, the feniibilities excited
by the present alarming crisis—the incor
pora ed body of the chosen freeholders for
the county of SufT x, in the state of New-
Jersey, bcli. Tt'ngit to be their duty, to con
vey to the Chief Mag Urate of the union,
the exprtflion of their sent me.ts and de
terminations,
Discerning no motive for distrust in the
integrity of the public f rvants, who, pof
fefling the fame interests with their fellow
citizens administer the government by their
choice—we have repelled with indignation
the attempts that have been mads, abroad
and at home, to separate the people
their conflicted authorities Placing espe
cial and entire confidence in the patriotifn),
virtue and wildom of which your early,
faithful and continued services are the in
controvertible proof—we have regarded,
with peculiar pleaftire and approbation, the
earned, sincere and upright endeavour ,
wh:ch you have unremittingly used for the
preservation of peace, and the relloration of
harmony with the French republic, on terms
compatible with the eflential rights and
sovereignty of the nation.
The world mud be- convinced of the
spirit of justice and moderation which has
afluated you in the conduct of our foreign
relations, and of the rapacity and profligacy
of those who, rejefting your pacific over
tures, require of us to pay for our own ig
nomy ; and to surrender at once the trea
sures and independence of America.
If perseverance in pretensions like these
(hould leave us no alternative but submission
or refillance, Americans cannot hesitate to
choose. If the pride and the injustice of
France, Qr any foreign power, should drive
us to the last solemn appeal, which by all
honorable meir.6 we would have avoided ;
the zeal and the unanimity of our efforts
will convince them, that we are not a di.
sided or a degraded people.
For ourselves personally, we allure you,
Sir, that in such a contefl, no confidrra
iotis of expence or of danger, can induce
is to abandon the government of our choice,
or to relax in a fiugle exertion of the power
we pofTefs in support of aur national rights,
honor and sovereignty.
The above address being read and unarii
moufly approved of by the corporation,
confiding of thirty members, representing
the fifteen townlhip9 in. the county of Suf
sex—On motion of Robert Ogdcn, Esq.
resolved, that the fame be signed by Major-
General William Helms, Direftor of the
Corporation, and be tranfinitted by the
Clerk, to Mark Th' mfon, Esq. one of
our Representatives in Congress, with a
request to present the fame to the President,
as expressive of the sentiments of this Cor
poration, and as ihey conceive, of the whole
body of the county of Suflex.
By order of the Corporation,
Wm. HELMS, Direftor.
Attest,
John Johnson, Clerk.
Tht Incorporated Body of Chosen Freeholders
for the County of Suffix.
CENTLEMEN,
I THANK yon for this obliging ad
dress. When you repelled with indignation
the attempts that have been made, abroad
and at home, to separate the people from
their constituted authorities, you ailed the
part of wife men and virtuous citizens.
The favorable allusion to my pad services
is very honorable to me, and your approba
tion of the late measures for the preserva
tion of peace, and restoration of harmony
with the French Republic, gives me great
futisfa&ion.
Your choice ef resistance, in preference
to submission, pride and injufticr, must be
approved of by all independent and impar
tial minds.
Your afTurance, that no consideration of
danger, or expence, can induce you to aban
don the government of your choice, or relax
in a single exertion of the power you pofTefs,
in support of our national rights, honor and
sovereignty, does you great honor.
John Adams.
Philadelphia, May 30th, 1798.
To the PRESIDENT or 1.41 UNITED STATES.
SIR,
WE, the Subscribers, Inhabitants of
the Town' of Windsor, in the State of
Vermont, deeply impreflTed.with th« cri
tical situation, to which our Country is
reduced, by the ambitious views, secret in
t igues and nefarious conduit of a foreign
Nation, aided by unprincipled and design
ing .Tien of our own Country, conceive it
our duty to declare to you our fulleft ap
probation of your conduit in this ardu*u.3
and important conjun&ure of public affairs,
At the fame time permit us, Sir, to as
furr you and the Congress of the United
States, that although peace is the mod ar
dent wish of our h arts ; yet it is a peace
founded upon the great principles of nation
al independency and honor, which (hall not
be degradedby theofficious interference, irt
perious demands, or the piratical depreda
tions of any nation on earth, and that we
are ready and willing to pledge our lives and
fortunes in support of such measures as the
national government maythink belt to adopt
to protefl our commerce, defend our coun
try from insults and maintain our indepen
dence and liberties inviolate.
[Signed bytwo hundred and twenty-eight
ptrfons.J
To the inhabitants of the town of Windsor,
in the State of Vermont.
Gentlemen,
I thank yoii for this address, preknted to
me by yotir Senators in Congress, Mr. Paine ,
and Mr Chipman.
V our attachment to peace on the princi
ples of national independence and honor,
not degraded by the officious interference,
imperious demands, or piratical depredations
of any nation is amiable.
The pledges of your lives arid fortunes in 1
support of such measures, as the national i
governmentmay think best «o adopt, to pto
teft our commerce, defend our country from
insult and maintain our independence and li
berties, inviolate are honourable to you, and
acceptable to yt»ur country.
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May 29, 1798.
To the President, the Senuld and House of Reprefenhtivet
of the Uni;ed States.
WE the tub fen be Ij, citizens of Kent County, in
the state of Mtryl.nd, convened f r the purpote of
■naking known to government our sentiments and
determination on the present alarming fituaiion of our
country, beg leave to fav, that having friatureiy con
lidered the communications Irom our envoys to
F ance, we are sorry to find termainfirted on by that
government, totally incompatible with the sove
reignty of the United Statei
We areof opinion, that decision, at all timei ne
ceu-try, is now clTentially so, and therefore make
known to you and to our country at large, that al
■ bough wewifiied well to France whilst we thought
er engaged in defence of her natural rights, yet we
are not (o loft to a sense ml virtue and palriotifm as to
countenance her present unjust and extravagant de-
As Americans jealous of the honor and attached
ro the freedom of our country, we repel with indig
nation every inlidiom attempt to separate ua from the
government of our choice, and although we are re
nrefented a divided people by one of the powers of
Europe, yet we will manifeft to the world that we
lhall always be ready tounite inoppofing the attempts
of any foreign nation who may presume to invade
our rights and privileges.
We therefore 4iefilate not to declare in the most ex
plicit manner, that having the highest confidence in
the moderation, wisdom and vtitueof our govern
ment, and having Teen with heartfelt fatialaftion, the
wife, libera! and conciliatory disposition of the ex
ecutive as exhibited in the inftru&ion* to our envoys
extraordinary 10 France, evincing a sincere d. fire to
accommodate by all honorable means our differences
with that republic, we pledge ourselves 10 give our
firm support to such measures as the government may
deem necefiary to maintain the interest, dignity and
indeDendence of our country.
[Signed by 47.]
ANSWER.
To the citizensoj Kent County, in thcjlatcoj Maryland.
* GENTLEMEN,
Youraddre'a to the President, senate and Houfc of
Representatives, has been presented to me, bv your
(enator in congress, Mr. Lloyd, and your reprei«.n
tative iacongrefs. Mr. Matthewj.
Wirh you I fully agree, that at this critica' junc
ture, firmne'sand decision are peculiarly neeeffary
Wewifhed well to France, and we still wish her
well ; we wish her contented with her own power
and glory, and that she would make peace with the
world, upon hroneft terms ; but a fmfe of justice can
never permit us to wish her poffelTed of unlimited
j power, by sea and by land, which i»no* f<>3 tpar
! eotly her objeft,. and patnotifm forbids us to coun
| (enanre her unjust and extravagant demands upou us.
I Though the Prench have forg rtte » the inebriation of
| abfolure power, I hope wc have not.
I tha*k you for your alluranccs of confidence in
I the government, approbation oi its pad measures,
| and pledge ot your firm support, to fach measures as
the government mav deem neceflary, to maintain the
interest, dignity and independence of our country
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May 3C'h, '9B.
The MiyorJ Deputy Mayor, Recorder, Ai
de ' men and t.omwnn Council of t e borough
I of Eiz btth, in their Common Hall affem*
j bled this fourth day of Miy, 1798
Do resolve unanimously,
1. That in the opinion of this Corporati
on, the President of the United States is en
titled to the warmed thanks and approbati
on of his country, for his inftruftions to our
Envoys at Paris ; inasmuch, as they manifeft
the utmost firmnefs upon evrrt' point, which
might affeft the Neutrality and Independence
of these United States, and the highelt fpi
rit of conciliation upon every point, whertby
our unhappy difference with the French re
public might be accommodated.
2. That th-; late dispatches from our En
voys, have made known, such attempts to
render the people of these United States,
tributaries to the Republic of France ; such
ideas of our being a divided people, and a
people separated from their government ;
and such threats of humbling our republic,
or of parcelling us out, in the manner they
have humbled and parcelled out some of the
Republics in Europe, as deserve the most
marked indignation of every free and inde
peadent American.
3. That the power and malice, cupidily
and ambition, of the French Republic, con
sidered together, raise such apptehenfions of
danger, as naturally tend to produce among
all true lovers of their country, the most
perfeA union, and the greatest a&ivity,
which, in aid of the efforts of our national
Councils, which we pledge ourselves to fup-'
port, will, we trust, enable ua by the blef
ting of God, to set at defiance the machina
tions of all our enemies.
4. That it is expedient for the citizens in
this borough, at this a' 1 important crisis, to
fend an address to'the President and both
Houses of Congress, expreflive of the fore
going sentiments, and of an entire confi
dence in their wisdom, firmnefs and patrio
tism.
5. That the Mayor do transmit the fore,
going r«f .lotions, together with the address,
to the Hon. Jonathan Dayton, with a re
quest, that he together with such of the o
thei Members of the Senate and House of
Representatives from the State of New-Jer
fey,as may find it convenient, would prelent
or cause the fame to be presented in such
manner as they may judge most proper.
By order of the Corporation,
EL.IAS DAYTON, Mayor
Attest, Aa*on Ocden, Clerk, See.
To the Mayor, Deputy Mayor, Recorder,
Aldermen, and Common Council of the Bo
rough of Elin ibeth in Ncw-Jerfry.
GINTLEMEN.
Your refutations adopted on the fourth of
this month, have been presented to me by
the Speaker. Mr. Dayton.
Your thanks for the inftruftions to our
Envoys, as they manifeft firmnefi on every
point, which might affeft the neutrality and
independence of the United S ates, and the
highefl 'pirit of conciliation, upon every o
therpoint, whertby our unhappy differen
ce3 with the French Republic might be ac
commodated, are extremely acceptable and
grateful to me.
The marked indignation you express, at
the unworthv treatment of this nation in
the persons and funftions of her Envoys,
are the just sentiments of every free and in
dependent Amer can.
The present crifn certainly calls for the
most perfect union and greatest aitivity. a
mong the true lovers of their country in aid
of the efforts of our national Councils, which
you ncbly pledge yourselves to support.
I trust with y U, that by the bit fling of
God, we may set at defiance the machinati
ons of f.ll our enemies.
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May 14, 1798.
Anfwsr of the President of the United
States, to the address of the Citizens of
Portland, Diftrift of Maine, in MafTa
chufetts.
To the Citizens of the Town of Portland, in
the Diftria of Maine, in the State of Maf
flchufetts.
GENTLEMEN,
SENTIMENTS more worthy of free
men and free Republicans, than those, which
you expre(9 in your addrefi, presented to me
by your Representative in Congress, Mr.
Wadfwrorth, have never appeared.
For your personal civilities to me, I can
only return my thanks ; but when you de
clare, as a part of the Amtrioan people,
educated in the love and enjoyment of liber
ty, and in habits of veneration for repub
lican Virtues, that you have no language to
express. your indignation at the late mea
sures of the French Republic, originating
in the most nefarious and corrupt stratagems
to annihilate our national sovereignty; when
you declare that while every principle of
duty and interest prompt you to unite in
the preservation and defence of our excellent
conjlitutwn» and in the support of those by
whom it has been faithfully administered,
you cannot express your deep regret, that
the citizens of Franc®, do not pofTefs virtue
fufficient to merit- the bleflings of a free
government; when you declare, that how
ever wicked and hostile may be the designs
upon us, your confidence, by the favor of
Heaven, is in the fortitude and unanimity
of our countrymen to repress their pernicious
effects, and that you believe, at the fame :
time, that a nation under the yoke and rod
of dtfpotifm, and whofa councils are dif- i
traded and corrupted, ought not to be fear- ;
ed,~l am altogether unable to answer you 1
but with my unfeigned admiration. 1
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May 15th, 1798.
By this day's Mail. '
NEW-YORK, June i.
A letter from Philadelphia, dated yester
day, informs, that Citizen Dupont, la e
v'onful from the French R:*publi atCharlcf
ton, lately appointed Consul General at
Philadelphia, not having been received by
our Executive, has taken his paffagt in the
Cartel (hip, which is ftiorilv to fail for
France. ,
The fallowing (late of American funds,
as they Rood in London on the ic.'h of
April lad, exhibits great confidence in the
pun&ualiiy of our government.
United States Bank Shares, 122
Six per cent. Stock,
Three do. do.
Deferred do. 7
. The above paper is now 10 per cent un
der these prices
The Lord Lieutenant's Proclamation,
declaring Ireland in a (late of civil war, was
published on the 30th March. He em
powe s and advises his m.ijefty's forces, to
, aft with the utmolt vigor ir. the suppression
of infurretlions, &c.
The Cork paper, called the " Harp of
l Er.n," has been stopped by government.
, The Mohawk, of Portland, is recaptured
' by the Anfon frigatp, and had arrived at
. Plymouth. She was from Charlelton.
The Accepted Mason, arrived at Boston,
from Liverpool, May 17, spoke brig Martha
Bland, Park, of , Bermuda-hundred, from
Liverpool, in a leaky condition, and with
out a rudder—took the captain, mates, and
. part of the crew, on board his veficl, with
: a number of the mod valuable packages.
The following Important Article, is copied
from Lloyd's Evening Poll of April
2d, 1798.
" Among the reports which the non
arrival of any intelligence from Trance has,
within these few days, given rife to, is the
following : that the American Commission
ers at Paris have been ordered to depart,
| and that all American property in Fiance,
which is supposed to amount to 3,000,0001.
is to be confifcated."
John S. Eustace, Efq.late Major-General
in the armies of the French Republic, cams
passenger in the Aurora, Capt. Coffin, who
arrived on Wednesday, in 66 days from
Rotterdam.
Continuation oj latejl European Nevus received
by the Cutter Conjiitution from Falmouth.
SWITZERLAND.
London dpril 3.—We yesterday dated, that
the fate of Switzerland was decided, and
that the brave general who commanded the
remainder of the Bernois army had been
murdered with some of his bed office's
It appears that two aftions were ftjught
on the 3d and 4th, with doubtful success ;
but that on the sth the French obtained a
decided viftory, and entered Berne almoU
immediately afier the affion The nation
al courage and intrepidity of the Swiss. to
which even their enemies are said to have
'borne an honourable, tedimony, were ren
deref useless by a want of discipline and
dill more, by a spirit of dvfuriion and infa
tuation, almod without example. It appears
that general D'Erlach and several of their
bed officers, were massacred by the troops,
either during the aflion or immediately af
ter* —That on'he4th (thedaypreceding the
lad decisive battle) while the council of
Berne were determining on the abdication of
the government, the troops who were on their
march to meet the enemy, upon a suspicion
of trrach.ry, maiTacrtd fev. ral of their of
ficer), in the dreets of ; he town. With such
a total want of coufidence and discipline in
the troops, it is a matter of furpr,'ze that
any rehltance fliould have been attempted,
rather than that it should have proved inef
fe&ual. Political treachery completed what
military jealousy arid difunio- had begun—
Even after the capture of Berne, th-, affairs
of Switzerland were Kill capable of beintr
retneve,! ; when the Peasantry of the Lake
of Zurich, taking advantage of the general
confuhon, poff ffed themselves of the town
and prevented the contingents of the smaller
cantons from marching to the relief of Berne
It appears that these deluded people aded
.n concert wi.h the directory, and,hat they
•ru deputies at Paris, f*r some time before.
,u fr f P' r,t an'raofityand antipathy to
the French, ex, h in a degree than
ever in the filler cantons ; but they are
wholly d,fun,ted, and deditute of leaders
I he country, for four leagues round Berne
has been abandoned to the French <roop S ,
who have surpassed their usual rage for plun
der and wanton devaflation.
of the peasantry, irdignant at
the idea of having been betrayed by their
own government, has given rife to a variety
of (hocking outrages ; and the general anar
chy is purpoftly encouraged by the French
who have relaafed all the Criminals,
The Bandes Noire,, so well known for
their cruelty and rapacity, are quartered in
the town of Berne— Many families have
emigrated. 7he Avoyer Stciger, who had
determined not to survive the defeat of his
countrymen in the aft,on of the s th, was
earned off the field by a party of peasants.
and conveyed to the mountains ; almod all
the young men of the patrician families pe
rifned on the fame day. '
LONDON, March 28.
• j Fr , ench "linifler, M. Roberjot, i,
arrived at Hamburgh; and has delivered his cre-
I;" 3 "' Great a rprehenfians are
entertainsd in that city, ,n cenfequence «f the
refufal of the Senate to the demand of the French
government relative t« the loan. M.Talleynnd
lately wrote to ihe Senate to inform them of the
retufal of the direflsry to comply with the
terms which the Senate had proposed, fignifving
at the fame t.me that the whole artlouift of' the
Aim required of the Hans Towns was to be fur
mfhed by Hamburgh, which might afterwards,
ma.*e such arrangements with Lll beck and Bre
men as It might think proper. Tne Senate re
plied to Mi. Talleyrand L'erigord by statingtheir inability to furnifh the Cum required of them
by France (amounting to twelve millions of li- .
jres) and propoSng, , n lieu thareof, to pay the
four million, already offered on thetr part, and '
to accept three millics „f Dutch refcriptio,,,, <
infield of fo,,r,_as it was at iir(> fettled, j n ,r
---derto_ cover them It may be eaf.ly conceived, i
1 w „ JU w ith much impatience for the an
l'ver from France, and that the Merchant, are I
not a little apprehensive of the consequences !
which m-venfue to their trade. Probably the ,
trench in •; take advantage of the above circum- 1
stance to carty their iniquitous plan against Ham- 1
f | burgh into execution. j
i Ex n\"? ° r U "/ r r " rmr "«b, March 14. t
n Amvcd > the Kl "g George packet, capt. J
D«ne, from Cuxhaven, ,n ,t hours, with Jj,, j
30,«0cl. o, money, and a great number of pas- c
leNgers, among whom was Mr. Williams, Con- h
fttl of America. * o
The debate lad night in the House of Com- a
rnons, on the plan of national defence—is of a ft
very important nature. It mufl afford the great- r
e confoUtlon to witness the attivity of govern- rr
«nt. which cannot fail to arouse and animate
all descriptions of men in the common eaufe.—
Ihe speeches of Mr. Pitt and Mr. Dundasare
very intereftingaod will be read with great avid- k
jiiy and farisfaaion by every hncere friend to his
tountrv now menaced by an ambitious and for- tr
miuable enemy.
March ion'
Count Woronzo, the Ruffian minister, and
Mr. K.::g , ambaffidor from America, had lu- "
< d,eives yefierday with lord Grenvillr, at-his
<ii>nle »n Cleveland-row. an
The CO,n iv of exchange is nfen so rapidly in gr
♦ aver of this country, that every packet from ae
1 Maiphuf brings oyer remittance< of gold to the
• mount at lei ft of loo.crol. fttrling.
Mr. Abbott and the other members of the fe
l. a committee are proceeding with vigor and ~
pev.fevcrance in their iavaluible inquiries into b "
. the .ii iles ot the public offices. They are now Pr
employed in the . Augean Habits of the law, wl
where the fees of patent officers an. '~e emolu- Ti
menu to the chiefs of departments are laid to be nu
enorn o ig. *
The if -v Poflrrufter general, lord Auckland, /"
has begun very exter.fiva reforms in that depart
n.cnt On Saturday night all the newlpapers ln <
were examined to fee that no writing was put f° l
»pon the (lamped (heets, so as to defraud the re- ar:<
venue of pofUge. f u ,
1 ir '533 Francis X', built a veflel at Havre, cat- tin
led La Grande Francoife, in which there was,
ainidfl a profufion of ornament in every part, a r ■
tennis court, and a wind mill, with a forge put
in motion by the wave,. The command was ma
given by the Chuvalier Villers de L'lfle, nephev w h
to the grand mailer of Rhodes. As soon as (lie retl
«'-s fimlhed, (he struck on the sand in going out to I
of rife harbor, and being laid flat by a fijdden m ; t
squall of wind, was never got up again.
• The Quakers of Stroud, Kochefier and Chat
ham, oblerving some of their fraternity have,
in the weft and other parts of England* contri- On
biued bountifully for the defence of the King- o
dom, hive resolved to call an immediate meet- f.
iug, and open a book of fubferiptions for the li
j purpose of becoming friendly to the general fafe
ty and prosperity of the nition.
I Yesterday advices were received by govern- S>
snentcl the general Hate of preparation in some l
of the ports of France for the expedition against , "
England. Within the lad fortnight, the prepa
rations, both naval and military, are become j"' '
more visible, and appear in some places in a ar ?
great d gree of forwardnefs. *3 !
The following is an extract of a letter reeeiv- C " '
fd from an officer belonging to the squadron of n"
Sir Richard Strachan, off the mouth of the CC
Seine: P a V
Cff Havre, March 25, 1798.
" There are 4 Irigates and ; corvettes in this 1
pott, the farmer of which an-) one of the latter f™
are reidy for Tea. We boarded a neutral vessel T"
•yesterday, which informed us that most of the tf- tw "
fc&ive feamcn at Havre were ftnt two days before
over land to Ereft, where preparations are making j u
for inimeiiate '•xpeJicion. There are a great
mar.y flat bottomed boats at Havre, that carry two
avy Munfl each, one in the bow, and the other in
the (Urn. twenty two of them are now lying in
the inn?- road ; and when we (land in we occalion
aily fee exercifed in rowing and failing
them. I hey ate lugger rigged, have from 30 to
40 oars, and carry from 70 to So men. We can
count 14 more building upon the beach, which have
been run up in a few days. A JI t h e Tcffelswith
\Miich wehav? hitherto spoken, agree in their ac- *
counts that it is the intention of the enemy to com- »
plirco of thrfe boats* It is now understood,
from every intelligence that can be colle&ed, that
a general attack if intended by way of feint against
England, in order to favour a real expedition a
gainst Ireland Y
By the fame advices we ynderßand that th-i pre- J^ r
parat'ons in the port of Brest have been renewed S
wjta great Vigour ; »ine fail of the line appear to
be ready for sea, besides 13 frigates."
April 16. c
A letter from Braffels, dated the 7th of April, for cl
states the following—" The preparations for the
expedition agninft England redouble on our coasts. hercb
It appears that a corps of 8000 Dutch troops will l . hat 1
loon arrive ir. our department, and take pofirions orm
on The coalx between Ollend, the Scheldt, and Neu- at 1 »
Pp"- Br.taviM government, will also fui- this n
nifh, for the descent, a squadron composed of Aips of th
of war, which lhall remain ready for service in dance
she port> of the republic.
On the other hand the troops of the army of
Italy, which lately rrived at Brufiel*, are about Sc£l
to march immediately, in order to join the right tyafort
wing of the Army of England, of which they are their b
to form a The other troops in garrisons in meetin
the interior are also to march for the coast of Dun- a Ppoin
kirk. * the m
The American Senate begins to rival our Euro- brid ge
pean Affi-mblies in manners. A Mr. Lyon and a or cor l
Mr. Grif-volJ kicked one another round theHonfe rcl
of Reprefcntatives; and it required a discussion of crt "
several days to fettle the dispute. i ccs '
Further accounts from Italy, of the 26th ;
of March (late, that on the frontier? of the 1 Stockh.
Imperial states, extraordinary warlike pre- tlme a *
parations are going on. It i'«very common
y reported, that the Imperial troops will
very soon take pofleffion of MantHa, Berga
mo, Brescia, See. and that of the Cisalpine A '
republic will receive some additions in an- t*- 1
other quarter. Still however this is mtre ioto th
report. require
The mysterious preparations, fays one of
the Italian Gazettes, which for some time |
have been going on upon our frontiers, and J DOL
along the Adige, are every day more inex- I
plifable. The military preparations are • Men
extraordinary. On the' southern fron- ; ' lr »n a g<
tiers of the Tyrol, along the Adige i""'
the army is constantly increaling.. 1
'Troop!i are drafted from Venice to reinforce ' \
it. prdm Austria, Hahgary, Carituhia, No. 5;,
&c. troops are daily advancing, partly by
Trent and Roveredo, and up the Adige favcrs "
Befide3 this, a considerable body of troops the'htft
have been filing out. ef Bavaria towards the
Italian part of the Tyrol, to join in the ar
my in the neighbourhood of Padau, Vero- GOO
11a, &c. which is to .compose a force of '" omee "
60,0c0 men. on a PP'
may
)f n. T the terr ' tor ' cs ef tl,c GrJnd D " k e of
y th,. iu ' ca "y» various attempts have been made
and 1° exc,ce dillurbance ; but hitherto without
ions, '
ur- The French have enforced the reqnifitioii
ved, in Holland of every-fifth man.
■ an- > ellerday, in «on sequence of the order if
nces [ Ued r by the House cf Peers f " r appre
the w" . of the proprietor apd printer of the
um- M° rn '»g Chronicle, Mr. Perry asd Mr.
lam- Lambert were brought to the bar of the
House. Strangers were excluded during
>l4. the pioceedings, but we understood Lord
apt. Minto to have moved, that they (hould be
'' imptifoued three months in Newgate, and ■
r on fined in the sum of jol. each. The Duke i
of Bedford, we also understand, moved as
sm- an amendment, that the term of the impri
if a fonment, (hould be one month tot ly ; which
eat- motion wai rejefled, on a division, by a
rn " majority of 69 to 11.
,_f j . Perry and Mr. Lambert were lad
are . nig!u conve yed to Newgate, by two door- '
'id- * tce pcrs of the House of Lords,
his Row-boats are now building under cfcn
■or- traft forgovernment, at Mr. Pritchet's yard ]
at North-fleer. They are on a new con
ind > measuring 18 feet wide, 7 deep,
ju- t '' e » to carry one cannon On
his 'he prow, tfo short carronades in the stern,
and to be fanned with 6; men. Their
in great utility is to go in every diredtion a
im agtnft wind and tide.
:be
C t HALIFAX, (N. S.) May 15.
nd ,• 11111 much pleasure to the inha
ito bitants of this loyal and highly favoured
)vv I lovmce to learn that the fubfeription?
h ; ch u ' ere opened on Tburfdiy at the
111. 1 rfafury and court-house, for the liberal
be purpose of relieving the exigencies of gov
d ernment, have hitherto answered the moll
r,l fan g'. ime "peftations The fubferiptions
rs '"'t-his town alone amounted to upwards of
ut pounds sterling lall evening,
c- at:d we have no'doubt a v S ry considerable
sum more will be added before, the close of
ll " the week.
S a ' This is an emanation of the true Britijh
M Spirit which has long bid defiance to the
as machinations of an infidioue enemy; and Jv
W which fpri.iging spontaneously from the pa
le rent country, operates with reliftlefs energy' '
it to the fartheft extremes of her extenlive do
:n minions.
e, Sale of Real Estate,
1- On Thursday evening next the 7th June at 7
so clock in the evening at t.he Merchants Cos
t- see-house ir. Second-street, will be fold at fjuh
e lie autfion, >u-
A three Story Brick. House ;'
1- oh the north fide of Spruoe-ltfiet ' te
e I* 0 -* l' bc 'w«n 2d and 3d streets. , The' 1 th
. houle 19 111 compleat repair 20 feet Front aid the T
lot extendi 80 feet in depth with the priyjllee.ofi m
an alley Pia'zaof I} feet 9 inches by 11 'feet a as
large convenient kitchen of 2a feet 9 inches by hi
13 feet 6 inches and 1 flory high—ovcrthe kitch
en is a handfsme dining room. The fire infur
' on the premises is extends to the ath
a December 1799 ; the eltate is fubjetf to annual f?
payment.ot —PofTeflion can be ha'd in A ve
ry Ihort time, and security given (if required)
s to make the purchaler a complete title—the
t '"ms of payment will be one third calh, one "
I third in 6mr nths and the remainder in one or at
_ two years with interest and security. tf
e FOOTMA A, <3* Co. auctioneers.
; J" nea ' - ■
' Bourdeaux Brandy,.
1 Claret in hhds. M
1 White wine in half hhdi. .
Claru -> S , W
Frontinac ( .... . ' D;
> Sautsrne ( W,n "
1 Lundi j
' Red Skins *
' also,
76,000 lbs. Jacquemel Coffee. " thi
( 60,000 Bourbon do. tj),
114 Boxesof white Havanna Sugar—and Tl
So Hogsheads of Tohaaco
sO» SA l. E BY ani
. JOHN SAVAGE. nu
L une * d.f
.Schuylkill Permanent Bridge.
"piTRSUANT to the 6th feflion of theaiil of
. Aflembly, authorizing the Governor ot
this commonwealth to incorporate the company ® r '
for cteifling a permanent bridge over the river hat
j-chuyikill, a meeting of the Stockholders is car
hereby called, for th» purposes mentioned in j n 1
that fiflion (which is hereafterpublifhed for in
formation) on FRIDAT next, the Bth infiant,
at 12 o cloek at noon, at the State House. As
this meeting is very important to the intercfts
of the company, a punflual and general atten
dance of "he Stockholders is earneltiy tequcfted. Buc
By order «/' the DireSors. b
c RICHARD PATERS, Prudent. &
r ™ tc "/trtier enaSlci ly iht authori
ty'sftrrfaij, That the fald Pufiaent and Uircftors, on K
their being chofel, in the f.r/t instance (ha 1 call a a ( ,
meeim? of the Stockholders, and that meeting may ,
appoint five of their number to exami,. and report .
the most eligible plate or places f„, building the hjn J
bridge, and to treat with any bndv or bodk-t, politic B
or corparaie, or ludlviduals, tor the purchase of iheir frie '
refpeaivenght,, or any of them', to the placa or pla- g' v e
cei deemed eligibie ; and when the laid place or pla- I'll t
cesteims on which itorthevcan benurchaled, aie so by v
| reported, the sam Stockholder, !<,r a majority of thole i
! °" ' be phcc and 'crms-or the laid but
[Stockholder., or a majority of them, may at anyuun" n
time agree to leave the determination, boih 011 place
and terms, to the Prefi,lcnt and Dircftots
June 1, 1798. , si , you
Wants a Place, tofei
A YOtJNG WOMAN, to attend a I.ady, or ! E
take ca V of Children —would willingly ge I
into the country, or to the 11, ore, as may be JJ[
required. Apply to the Printer. j off tl
juoe *. ~ I giver
'** " j J£J
Macpherfon's Blues. of m
DOBBIN & ROBERTS, Taylors, .f'
NO. 114, CHESNUT STUBr.T, Wl c' <
Members of Macpherfon's Blues, solicit the pa. ~'
trenage of their Brother Soldiers. Pljte
june I
Macpherfon's Blues. ov"r'
THOMAS SHARP, Tjtlor, Pr " ffi
H J «V,?^ hThirdft f e "' opposite the Ncwßank, yuu „
HA/ING joinen the above Corps, solicits the n . B "<
favors ©f his brother Soldiers. slice (
NB. He can farnilh thei»with Materials of v °y> 1
the belt ouauty. j„,, c r . ble.
Drum and tife. J bo s h "'
GOOD Drummers and Filers, Will receive hand- . Em
rome encouragement to join Macph el ,.„ N5 B i.u es , Both ■
OB application at No. 78, Clicfnut Street. times
tt • Xfre oasette.
su°n Philadelphia,
cr,[. SA TURD A Y EVENING, June 2.
CONGRESS.
riiicr Yellerday, in the Hottfe of Representatives
ord the Unltcd S t;«es, the bill so fufnend the
■" u Commercial Intercourse between the United ■
a be : Stktes and France, and the dependencies
and thereof, was read the third time. The blanks
Inke in the firfl and second fedlions were filled with
d as the ill of July; the firfl blank in tin; third
nri- «as filled with after due notice of the
iiVh P a J) m S <f > his aajball be given ; and the second
with thi xft of December next. On motion
y a of Mr. Gallatin, and by general consent,
the words in the third feQiori, " noiu aUually
la ft rejident in France, or tie dependencies thereof,"
>or- were truck out. After iome debate, the
bill palfed 55 to j 5 .—The Yeas and Kays
. were as follow :
YEAS
ard MettVs. Allen, "MdTrs. Hindman,
pn " Baer . Holmes,
ep, Bartlett, Ho i'rner,
on Brooks, Imlay,
rn, Lyman,
teir Chaniplin, Machir,
C bap man, Matthews,
1 a " T.Claiborne, Morris
W.Claiborne, Morgan,
Cochran, Otis
C°i|. J. Parker,
ia- Craik, Reed,
-ed J? an ?' Rutledge,
)nq ~ av,s .» Schtireinan,
" 9 Dennis, .Sewall,
Sj nt ' ■ Sinnickfon,
ral Edmond, N. Smith,
,v Evans, \V. Smith)
oft A- l'oller, Stanford,
ns D. Foster, Thatcher,
c J. Freeman, Thomus,
Gillefpie, Thomson,
f' r j' - j. ■ Tillinghaft,
'le Coo lrich, Van Alen,
of Grifwofd, Wadfworth,
rovc ' J.- Williams,
ifh Harper, R. Williams.
J , Hartley,
KAYS. 5 " -
n H Melps. Baldwin, Me'flrs. Locke,
: . - S al " d> Macon,
>T Benton, M'Clenachan
o- Blount, McDowell,
Burgers, Milledge,
__ Clopton, New,
Dawfob,
BJm£ndorf, "Sujppter,
7: - J Tr 'gg»
>f-. , , Gallatin, VanCortlandt <
h- Harnfon, V arm: in,
Hann'a, Venable. .
Havens, 2s ' '
, On motion.of Mr. Sewall, the commit- c
, et : of the whole wan discharged from a far- "
nether consideration of the bill laying Direct
ne faxes, and tt was re-committed to the com- ®
0 Tl Ji tte s of w ?y? and "leans ; and in order to c
a afford time for that committee to fit upon the "
>y bill, the hotife adjourned till Monday.
r " Dispatches in cyphers have been receiv- §
, b y government, from the Ministers ess
e- tt States, in France, Spain and
I) Hplland. [i s
ie
le A Utter from capt. Dale, dated Ganges, S
)r fi. ve leagues distant from Cape b
Henlopen Light-House, mentions his hav
ing seen nothing.
Married on Thursday last, at Friend's
Meeting Houle, in Marketftreef, Mr. Samu- S
Merchant, to Miss Mar y s
W. Dawes, daughter of Mr. Rutnfbrd
Dawes, all of this city.
P
VOLUNTEER CAVALRY. C
Thursday the several Troops cf Horse, fr
in compleat uniform, pamded and marched T
through all the principal ftieets cf the city; of
they made a moll refpedable appearance' cr
Tliefe patriotic corps are greatly enlarged la
and additions are daily making to their P'
numbers. O
of
The brig Marianne, and cargo, helouging in
f to r * J*imes Crawford, of tMs city, cap- Ex
t tured and condemned at Halifax, tinder the
Britidi ordeis of the 4th November, 1793,
r have been restored to the owner (vefTtl and ch
s cargo) by a decree of the Commilfionera !
1 in London. Du
at ,
f GERMAN DIET.
t Account of a grand public dinner given some 1
time ago at Rajladt. fro
. Buonaparte in the chair. The E.tr.peror at the ear'
bottom, and the different German Princes, ton
&c. ieated round the table. Uv
BUQNAFARTE. Ezg
MAX I trouble you, Mr. Emperor, for a slice ra! '
et Germany, on the left of the i&ine > *
haffTh- SI V v"' M3y 1 0f V 0 lar,
hand this \rav that Venetian dish ? I
£u « a - Certainly. Juil allow me to help my
frmd Cu /Upine to a hit of the brown, and to vaie
give admiral Toulon a fpoonful of tl.e ma,-, ty ,
111 thank you for that Flem so beer that has loori Ind'
by you so long;. >nd
En:p. FUmifi beer ! It'has been yours oflate • for '
but I now give it you forever. It has alwavr A
f° fp frothy, that it never ha« '", K
n'i m - 1 '! 0 . corlf cotiW it, and ct
) fnall have it with ail my heart.
f ' im ™" ch ohl'ged to you : allow me f.on
to fcml you a gla.s of Saltzburg wine in return, at S.
Jimp. A l.ott'e if you plesfe. I've had an Deal
; excessive lotting after it a considerable time. «=k.
I Etehr of Menu Mr. Em P er„r, in cutting ~
oii the nice of the left fide of the Rhine you've, T
given away nw favorite bit.
Ehaor of Treves. And you have deprived me
ot my whole dinner, C 1
of Cologne. And me you have left PhiU
without a morlcl on my plate na h ■
Saxon. Hulhl bulb! you fools, or he'll take Side!
plate, knives and forks, and all from you. «!
t Jimp, (.entlsmen, don't grumble H t ln Char
yourlelves out of your neighbors plates. Hand more
over that dilh of Hanover and Hamburg to f M
sou a " " provide P'entifully-for all of f r "^'
■IW. Will you allow me to help myfelf to a
. T ■ Sardinia, fend me vour Sa- Ports
voy, and that Aw bit at the bottom o'f the u- deiry
ble " flnys,
Sardinia. Aft and you fliall have. There are
both.
. Emp. That Swift fat has been well fried.
Both you and I and England have at different Brig
times blown up the coals under it. Schi
Buon. My dear Emperor, you've lofl your
■SZ appetite. Do allow me to fend you a nice of
Etavarfc.
Emp. My dear friend, you know lam lb fond
- of that, I cannot refuic.
Buon. Here ; there's half.
Emp. Thank vou.
Jlollrrid. Yoa forget your old friend.
2 Buon. I beg your pardon . Prussia will help
yon to a plate of Gueldres and Cleves.
PruJJia. But what shall I eat myfelf ? "
Emp. Uelp ynurfelf in Hanover, and I'll give
you a part of Poland and Silesia.
lives Prujfta. But my friend the drowsy Stadrhold
-1 tiie er -,
iited Emp. him DufleldorfF Pye, or the
icies" ur hyofßerj?.
inks % ,mn - Waiter! devil me the wing of Hol
with land orr left of the Maes,
bird Prujjta. Our friends, the bulk of the compa
r the n s'». -German Princes, grumble much that
rond their best dinner are takens from them,
tion Emp. The scoundrels! let them wait till Buo
ent, rcaparte, you and myfelf are fatisfied, and then
tally t " e y divide the crumbs. 'Jake no more
°f" them. To sooth them will only make
them fancy.
Jays Waiter. A gentleman calling himfelf the Pope
wishes to he admitted to fay grace.
Buon. O ! thequ.ck ! tell him he/hall never
keep me waiting with an empty stomach again,
while he gabbles till the dinner is cbld.
iventer. A gentleman calling hirr.fe'f John
® u " lends his compliments, and solicits fnme
Cey.on cißnamon, forne Cape corn and Trinida
da fweet-msats.
, Buon. Kick the fellow but! Th.it'e the great
Carcase Butcher who has dealt so largely in Ger
many. lie ife not content.with his own roast
- beef and plumb-pudding, but he wants the tit
bits of my friends Spain and flolland. I'll com I
presently and drub him into reason. In the ;
mean time Treilhard und Bbnnier go and tarn
si, him out.
Buon. Remove the cloth, gentlemen, the De
>, sert consists of fruit from the of Liberty
t The words t: General Staff"" flioulri
hiive been placed at the head of the lift of '
officers in yefterday'* Gazette.
GAZETTE marinFlist. .
• _____
'■ PORT O.F PHILADELPHIA.
ns. ci ■ c ARRIVED. days
Ship Superb, Boyd Halifax j 4 s
Brig fair American, Somers Egg-Harbor 1 ' f
Dukeof Brimfwick, JohiKo'n N.York 4 !
Erig Weft Point, Pease, Clarleilon 12 days
an Maria,, Sherer, do
Schr. Polly, Edwards PafTmaquady rr
Jll no, Holbrook Wifcaflet 18 0
Harriot, Wel£h. Wilmington N. C. 21 0
Sloop Hop?, Cole RlK.de Island 4 I
Heron, Blower Hartford 4 c
Sophia, Ely N. York 5 .
t ' Came up from the Fort.
Ship Jane, Stiles Porto Rico a
Four Friends,,Glenn Havanna P
Brig Fame, Knox St. Croix "
t Susanna, Hunt Cape Francois
I: s chr Polly CrefweH , Vr™
■ft c>. ,T y ' Cu( s"Jf Cape Francois n,
bchr - John, Ford C.' Francois. sloop Friendship, -
to Bloomfieltf, Barbadoes.
le SIo °P Mary, Tatcm St. Croix I'
Sally & Jane, Matthews Havanna
Arrived at the Fort.
Brig Liberty, Duer fjacquemel
Schr. Fanny, Painter N. Providence r,
>t Sloop Nancy, Hardy Cape Francois 13 T
id CLEARED. 3 T
Ship Benjamin Franklin. Jones Bourdeaux
Alexander, Brown Martinico „
s Sh'P Alexander Hamilton, Potts, Martinico 16
' Frane'ij :Waben (spanilh) prize to the Braak.
Bnj Ahtlvony, Dove, St. Martins, .12 „
" sa,7lbltr'5 a ,7 lbltr ' 9 dlin ' St - Johns, 14 A
Polly,' coffin, C. Francois, 17
s>ch. Johanna Magdalena, St. Thomas, 14
' s c u P £". y , and Betsey, Pearfon, C. Fran. 13
_ Schr. Polly, Chadwick-* N. York
i: Sloop Liberty, Jehnfon Trinadad
d , Minertra, Camillc Charleston
1 elteida-y arrived at the Fort the ship Fr
Pigou, Capt. Robert Clay, from Canton in
China, lad from the Weft.lndies Sailed
, I from Antigua the 14th May, and from
d Tortola the 20th, with a fleet of upwards
. of 200 fail of British merchant fliips, under o
. convoy of four men of war, bound to Eug- P '
, land—parted with them the 23d, in com-j <
r pany with two armed brigs for Bermuda. Tl,
Oft our Capes fell in with the Ganges ftiip
of war, Capt. Dale, who saw the Pigou fafe
r into the Delaware.
- Ex trails from Lloyd's Lift, from March 21, to April A r
' 13, 1798.
J VIa r rch2 '* arrived at Gravefcnd, Mount Vernon,
Johnlon. fsom Baltimore, and Wiiiyau, White
1 Charleston, S. C.
< The Minerva, Coffin, from N.York is arrived at
Dublin-; and Chrifliana, Pefpin, fiom Philadelphia,
at Biemen.
The Patty, Lee from Liverpool to Virginia, is on
fhoreon ihe ifljudof illi, a„d bilged. Pan
. March 25, arr vtd at Cowcs, Louisa, Champion, T ' ,c
from Maryland.
March go. The Lvdia, under American colons, is
earned into 8.-cft ; the Maty, Ingal!,. from Cb V lef- and
ton, and polio, , from Savannah, at ar.ivcd at r
Liverpool ; La Carolina, Oazo, from N. York, and 1
Eag'c, Swett, from Marblehcad, arc Arrived a: Gib- ' £r y
raiiar the latter with damage. f
-> pril 3 The Leeds Pack, t, Gunce, from Charief. M,,
ton 10 London, n taken off ihe Start, by the Viei- I
lar,t privateer, and carried into France. TheStatia, niU '
Sev/ard, arrived atCowes from Charlelton, afler be Brai
ing boarded hv a p.ivateer in long! tS i which pi i. mtt ,
vaieer had captured a (hip from Baltimore. The Ma- ——
ry Ann, Park, from Cliarlrlton.-is arrived at Cowcs-
Independence, Taber, from N. York, at De?l ; At J
and Kilty. Fo rrc ft, from Virginia, at C lydc ; failed
for Virginia. Sin, n, Deadham.
Apiil S. The Pailas frigate, of 3 j B uns, was loft
in gale nf wind on the *th at Plymouth ; people f.v. In
ed. Sailed Irom Gravefend, Minerva, Frink, from
Charleston ; i.rnved at Biifio), Magnel, Choat from
N York ,at Dover, Boyne Fl<>ori, and Paiterot,
hom Charleston ; Fame, Stevens, from Charleston • j un
at Belfaft, Abigail, Babcock, Irom Pniiadelphia ; a't
L)eaJ, Otfego, Dtckiufon, from N. York! at limer
ick, Joseph, Felt, f.om N. York: a: Hamburgh,
- , Jamifon, from Baliimore, and Swift, White. /JV
from N York.
« . t . oeeubn
'»• * I| 0 " Sail^d from Oraveferd for N, York, partici
Mr y- Allyae Arnvfed at Cowes, Uncle Toby. Cot
trell, and Herald, Derby, fron: Charleston, ; at Liver
pool, Aftrw, T.niikham, WiTcaflct, Molly, Hodge,
Phiiadciphia, and S/ockport, Towers, from Savan
nab; at Dublin, Veretia, , BoHon ;at Belfaft may
Sifters , Boston _ ' "
/ip r »l 13. Arrived at Portfmnuth, Commerce, Han« '
Charleston ; at Plymouth, Hercules, ,
mo *f \ c a ) Liverpool, Molly, Frost, Philadelrhia; a
at Mr I ford, » rovidentii, Gardner, from Ncv.-Vork
bound to Hamburgh; , ?t Dover. Telrmscnus, Tvril
from IV. York, and Farmer, M'Cpllonj-, from Phi'a- ma
delphia bound to at JKinfale, Mohawk
——, from N. York ;at Co>k. Alligator, Harris'
Portlmoulh. and Kancy, iiom N. Y.> k ; at London
derry, J!:GngSur., Thompson, N. York ; at Helvoei-
V s - Peggy. Gower, Maryland ; at Hamburgh
New-v or I June. I.
/■RR'VED d , s
Brig Hunter, Telford, Antigua, 11
Schr- Alligator, Billing, N. Providence 1
Maria, Remfen, Peter&urgh^
** j •
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES,
• fond —_
ov the sailing of the
UK!T£D STATES F&TGATF..-
The afichor weigh'd, the cannon's roar,
Proc'uifns along tne< ecftoing ffcorc,
help ..The manly farewell of a crew,
To Jioneft independence frue i " •
''"h'enraptur'd cheers, declare their aflions fret,
i pivc Sc » " r g'd, felf arm'd, to fight for liberty.
u disg raC e th'egatber'itl c^oud;
lold- The (hoets ®f jfy art heard aloud :
No wife her parting lord rellrains, :
the To check the smile her foul disdains }
Hoi- Leave .leave my arms,and reign within my heart "
Each filler, as fhebida adieu.
Crimson, n ith the glowing hue
that Ol honest pride, and loud declares,
Run 17 1 , n vm ° * t4 "' ,n V brother fliares."
Buo- Een ch.ldren catch the all pervading glow
then And prattle vengeance on the infultfnf foe.
lake X! 16 Ve ?' n ° W adown th "tid«,
. Wove, flown independent pridt;
>one pr Dc ' iware Wlth h °"eft boast,
T , nts h " t0 th ' lifted coast •
n> T a> h " cannon t0 the world decree
Colnmbn can, and ever will be free.
* nd y° a "r., who forenioft (land
ohn S lar .r"", S ° f yOUr :n i urfd had,
hme ay ch " u! >ims on high,
.Guard you with a watchful ev®
1a " rorl , rock ' a, 'd ftoahyotir winged csftle bear
real ll+rms 3n ' d Spells MiOw in your rear. '
3er- "~' e P ri, y not from foe,
naft *. e H " vei " to ,ur " your chafing prow .
f lt . } ° Ur coura ? e P rov ' a . "ur quarrel mil,, '
,„. e I" you we place imphcit tnj(l
the ~A fiu( c d 7<*'n™ P from cveryVjual £,h-
Brn a»el»rmus. us >m-canir r„i,!
3 E . Macpheribn's Blues.
rty. CORPS ORDERS,
Uld F at To- '° afr °' nble
0 f at 5 o Clock, p. u. at O nil, r*' Hotel
By order ot the Comman 'iait
ROBERT HEYBHAM, Adj,^t,p. t .
the COMMTTTEE --
M L L n I 7 ARr A^OCIATION~^ o . I.
« -
iy 4 wi^becom^tn.
1 4 First Light Infantry.
>1 ou™
21 Inflno'v C C ' f f " r " h r °, ,i ' nK thcn,,elv " in""he V
4- ,nfantr y Company belonging to'he Ftrfl Roeimem
4 » mm ,„d.d by Lieut. Col. Francis
5 - "Pl^ l " :ar '" r " to be made at No. 6 D,icV-/t.,'e'. '
*9 ' ho(e P crlons ol the cny a:id liberur* Ll,™"
CO l ° fu Pl >ort « h e Conflitutiin and'lnde
na F f ndence of their couit(rv ; anH
• >n the formation of 3 volunteer Ar'ilferJ l ° J °" 1
X -O be attached to MacpherW. Blue a"" d^"^
co
S J S "'.xt .at 7 o'clock in the evening. ' Sa!ur day
_ Ihe Old i'heatre ~ r
ix In South-Sreet, will open on Monday the .th of
na June, wnha fpee.es of entertainment, called
Ihe lablature: or
JUST IN T IME.
I, In Four Parts.
To wntch Mr. Chalmers refpeafvlly invite, bi.
ix iriendi and the public.
•O D • Part 'A
;6 Poetic nccaftonal addrtfa mr Chalmers Sana
lkl ST'* P ' a "° Garr. Fortune and
Folly, Recitation, mr Chalr.itrj
4 AMYNTOR, a pastoral ballad, by Hmt ,
1 composed by mr Taylor.
? 3? t r ERVOR OF freedom.
k Addrefl-ed to Co umJ,ian s -a u epic recitation.
a Mr Gb&lrhers.
n v t V, Re mme tmder P°tton"
p From tie Haunted Tower • by Sto
n _ rac e—fymifs Huntley.
d The Water Bottle, or a Cure -fir a Scolf,
r , A comic recitation, by mr Chalmers.
s Part sd.
\ ut^C,^ 0 f ? r P !ayedlL'mark; or afllng
- G '" kk >
The Soldier iir'J of IVr.-'s Alarms, from Ar
' rn,, v',V;S, rXeS ' hv '"'f s Huniley.
ROM KING, cr, MOfjsfEUß fONSON
A comic Tale, by mr Chalmers
Hornpipe by mrs JRow/ok.
i0 " F ;. 10 thc t "" e 'Anacreofi
Heaven, by m,-(frs p,elerick isf H'ilmcre.
Part 4lh,
Pantomimical Sketch
THE WHIM;
,j , . r » FTarlefnint Animation
Harlequin,Mr.Chalmen f Clown, Mr fully
Pantaloon, Mr. Rowfon | ColßmbineMrs.Rowfon
,i' t , C ™ C ' Kdc wi,h " Hail Columbia," br
Mr. Frederick, Mr. Wiln,ire and other.,
1 he doors will be opened tt ftx o'clocl",
and the curtain will rifeprecifcly at seven
Boxes one dollar, Pit half a dollar, o'al-
Jery quarter dollar,
Places, and tickets to be had of Mr.
North at the Theatre ; at Mr. B. Cart's
mutical repository, Market-street ; Mr
Bradford, Front ftrtet ; and of Mr. Chal
mt rs, no qg foqth Frorit-Oreet.
JNow Landing^
AtMeffrs. Willing & Francis's wharf, about
65,000 lbs. Coffee,
In Hoglheadi, Tierc«, Barrels, and liags,
TOR SALE BY °
SAMUEL HATS,
No, 89, South Third Street.
1 JUnet S6t
BE T.ET—f, r the Sunnier 'ftajon.
The long Ball Room,
IN Eourti, Cut/nut and IValnu, R„ct,,
ouu t "df.y M Do,,gall, so t „ m , J and fjrtbcr
particulars, apoly at his hjvfe h: . lark t fly ctt . N0.,,,
iVhere 1: ft HI carr it cn the
Hat and Hosiery Bttftnefs,
Cn !)ii ufual'reafsjnaUt: terms.
n - a y
TO B£*SOLb, ~
John Nixon H Co.
A quantity of veryexcellentLOGWOOD
NOW LANDING AT THEIR WH R?
ma >' 10
This Day <u>ill blrPiiirjhed,
By PETER PORCUPINE
A POEM, '
FRENCH ARROGANCE j
OR. -
" The Cat Let out of the Bag."
A POETICAL DIA t. r C fc' E
Between the AMERICAN ENVOYS,
And X. Y, Z and the LAIiV. 'Madras and Ventapaulem i
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries, |
fcf the newest and most approvad patterns, entitled
to the drawback, just received,
ANB FOR SALE BY
Alex. J. Miller & C§.
No. 64, South Front street.
may 18. !L-
C - IF Mr. Charles William Klemekc>
Formerly of London, and who left England for
some part of the United States of America, in
the year 1796, be living, and will apply person -
ally or by letter, to Mr. John Carrere, in Balti
more, or to Meflrs. Ilane Hazlehurft and Son,
in Philadelphia, he may hear of something great
ly to his advantage. Any information refpeft
ing the said Mr. Charles William Klemeke,
would be thankfully received.
may tq , dqw
Joseph Ricardo,
OF this City, Merchant, has afligned his pro
perty for the benefit of his Creditors, te James
C. Fiftier, Samuel W. Filher, and Thomas Wtlfon.
All persons who have demands are re
quested to furnilh their accounts without delay—
and those indebted to make immediate payment to
the Subscribers, a&ing Afligneei.
James C. ess Samuel IV. Filler.
No. 13, Arch Street,
march 3* 4tawtf_
Very Great Bargains,
CONSISTING of Table Linen, Scotland
India Muslins, now Jelling off and well
worth the attention of Houfckeepers to make
purchase otf Enquire of
Thomas Randall,
No. 88 Spruce-Jlreet.
may
Military Colours,
PAINTED ON SlLK—sr
George Rutter & Co.
Portrait and Ornamental Painters,
IN aftile which will endure the hardships of the
weather without injury, and which for neatnel's
and cxaditude of colouring cannot be surpassed in
this city.
, FLAGS and DRUMS
Fufnilhed with dispatch, en the most moderate
terms.
Portraits, Ornamental Paintings, Signs,
fire-buckets, &c. accomplilhed in that superb stile
of modern elegance, which, Mr. Rnrter pledges
himfelf from 20 years experience iU this city will
meet the entire approbation of hi* friends and the
public.
Ifl the Military Line,
A variety of specimen's may be seen at their
Painting Room, Morris's Court, back of the Njw
Library. *
may 3 <*6w
NOTICE.
HAVING observed an'advertifemect of C.
Gullagcr, in terms derogatory of our pro- I
sessional abilities", we have to request the public j
not to be imposed upon by foreign artist* ; but to (
decide upon the me its of each '>y a comparison ot
the work executed by both, as it is a mode almofl
universally adopted by tfeem to invalidate the ta
lents of ellablifhcd artist*, with a view of deceiv
ing the public, and engrofiing that business which
their profeflional knowledge in no wife entitles
them to. Well knowing that public opinion mud
govern, we flatter ourl'tlves that the workexecut- j
ed by us will convince them of our great fuperio- |
rity over Mr. Gullagcr hi every branch of por
trait and ornamental painting, and (hew thenecef
fity of judging for themfelve9.
N. B. In future no attention will be paid to ths 1
felf-flattcrir.g adv'ertifements of Mr G. i
Any pefrfon wiihing a supply of FLAGS and !
DRUMS will please apply to Geo. Rutter and
Co. NorrU' Court, or Hehry GermaE
town. ~§6w may 8.
Military Colours.
At C. GULLAGER's
Portrait and Ornamental Painting Rooms,
No. 50, South Fourth, next to Chefnut street,
oppolite the Friends' Meeting.
PAINTING on Clks for Military and other or
namental purposes (in a mar.nfr peculiar to
himfelt) durable, not to be injured by the weather,
■which for elegance of deCgn, truth and beauty of
colouring, neatness and masterly execution, has
hot been equalled by George Rutter and Co.
FLAGS and bRUMS
Furnished with all poflible dispatch, on the most
reafonahle terms.
Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck
ets, Cornices, &c. &c. executed in stile (not that
f.perb stile of modern elegance peculiar to G.R.)
but in a workman like manner, peculiar to an ar
tist master of his profeflion.
Mr. GoLLACm, from a numberof year's expe
rience in Europe and this country, flatters himfelf
that profeflional talents, punfiaality, and reason
able demands, will meet ihe entire approbation of
those gentlemen who wi 1 please to c 11 at his Paint
rg Rooms. §6w may j.
NOTICE.
P. S. Gentlemen in town and
country, wishing for a supply of Colours and
Drums, painted in a malterly manner, will no
doubt feel themselves obliged for the kind can ion
given by George Rutter and Co. not to trust felf
flattering advertisements, but examine the work
executed by both parties One view will fatif
fy them where the superiority lies, —save thefpoil
ing of good silks by -George Rutter's pencil—and
discover the requisites for the contracting talents
of Henry Frailey, at Germantown. ■ may 10.
Forty Dollars Reward.
RAN AWAY, on the 7th of April, a Negro
Man, named Glafgoiu, perhaps he,may pass
by the name of Glafgoiu Lce> or may change his
name; he is about thirty one years of age, nearly
fix feet high, has a fear in the upper part of his un
der lip, a imallpart being bitten out between the
middle and the corner of his mouth (I believe on
the right fide), his left hand has be n very fort,
and was so at the time he ran away, by being burnt
some time past : he is a stout, strong fellow, and
has been employed at a saw mill a few years: he
wont away in company with a negro woman of
Mr. JofhuaLingoe,of this county. It is luppofed
they are gone into Delaware State. Any person
that secures said Negro Man in any gaol, that the
fubfciiber (hall get him again (hall rftcefve the
above reward. £BJM£ BAYLY.
Stata of Maryland, ")
Somerset County, april to. 3 may 4 —4W
FOR SALE,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &e. fitmteon
Water ftreet,-between Mulberry an-J Saflafras
Streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, andcontalning that breadth c-aft
ward ninety-five feet, then widening R> the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
have the convenience of a publ't alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and area very defirablt sit
uation for a a merchant, flour faftor, or others
who may have occasion for storage of goods
This property will be fold on very reasonable
terms for rash. For further information apply
to the printer. April 5 mStwt)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH 1, 1798.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
INpurfuance of the A£k of Cengrefs passed on the Cxth day of July one thousand seven hundred and
ninety-seven, entitled " Art A& laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", and the
A& palled on the fifteenth day of December, one thousand {even hundred and ninety-few*, entitled
"AnA& to poftponefor a limited time the commencement of the duties imposed by the enti
tled "An laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from and after the
firft day of July enfuinj, the feveraiStamped Duties htreafter enumerated, writ be levied and collcc*
ted throughout the United States. ,
For every skin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or sheet or piece of Paper, upon whrtb ftrall be
written or printed any or either of the inftrumenti «r writingsiollowing—to wit 1
Dls Cts. | Mis
Any Certificate of Naturalization, ... - - 5
Any Licence to pra«flice,or Certificate of the admiffian,enrolment or regiftryof
any Counfellor,Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or P&flor, in any Court of the
United .States, • - 10
Provided, that a Certificate in anv one of the Courts of the United States
for one of the said Offices, fhaU'fo far as relates to the payment of the
dntyaferetaid, be a adiniflion in all the Courts of the United
States, for each and every of the said offices-
Ally Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United States
(except for lands granted tor military services) - - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any fuck grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military services) ... 1
Any Charter-Party, Bottcmry, or Refpondentia Bond, - - 1
Any Receipt or d'ifcharge for or on accountof anyLegacyleft by any Will or o
ther tettamentary inftrument,or for any share or part of a personal eflate di
vided by force ot any statute of diftributi»ns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deceased, the amount whereof lhall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and (hall not exceed tha vslue of One Hun
dr«d Dollars, - - - * "
When the amount thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
shall not exceed five hundrad dollars, ... 50
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional fuin of I
Any Poliey of Insurance or inflrament in nature thereof, on- any ship, veflel or
pood|s inlured from one diftritsl to another in the United States,
From the United States to any foreign port or plgce, when the t'um for which
Insurance is made shall not exceed five hundred dollars, - 1 j
When the sum insured shall exceed five hundred dollars, - 1
Any Exemplification, of what nature foover, that (hall pass the seal of aay
Court, other than such as it maybe the duty of the. Cleric of such Court to
fursifh for the use of the United States or some particular fl»te, - 50
Any Rond, bill single or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promiflTnry
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga- ,
tion or contrail, made to or with the United States or any Hate, or for their
uferefpeflively, ' -
If above t«*nty dollars and not exceeding one h -mdred dollars, - t<T
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, a|
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand d liars, 50
And if above one thousand dollars, - .... 7J
Provided, that if any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or notes (ball be fiibj»£t to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforelaid —viz. - - "
If above twenty dollars and riot exceeding one hundred dollars, *• 4
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollai s, lo
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, zo
If above one thousand dollars, ....
Any Notes ifiuedbv the banks now eftablifhetl, or that may hereafter be eltab
lifted within the United States, other than the no'os of such of the (aid Banks
as (hall agree t 1 an anaual competition, of one per centum mi the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders refpiilirely, according to
the following scale. - • - - "
On all note 3 not exceedisg fifty dollars, for each dollar, - 0
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars,. <0
Cn all notesibove one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - - ... 1
On all notes above fiye hundred dollars, - >
Any Protest or other Notarial adl, - - -
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfio«,or to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by ttie United States as bounty for miluiry services
performed in the late war, - •" r *5
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Cuftams or duties, for l«s than
five hundred dollars,
For five hundred dullars an ! not exceeding two rtiouftnd dollars, %
For more than two thousand dollars, ' - " 3 •
Any note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
If from ont diftria to another diftria of the United-States, not being in the
fame State, - - "
If from the United States to any foreign port or plaoe, - - ij
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effsfts, made in any
I cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
rent or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) 50
, Any Certificate of a Share in any Insurance Company, »f a share in the Bank of
the United States, or of any Siiii .br other Bank,
If above twenty dollars and "rot exceeding ont hundred doflars, - In
If above one hundred dollars, ,T" ' - " 15
Ifunder t*en(v dollars, at tttrrite olftth cents for one hundred d#llar».
11.
The dutiesaforelaid wiH be collefled and received by the Supcrvifors, Infpedlors aud other Officers
of Infpeilion, in the several Diilrifl*, Survey? and Divisions of the United states, and by such otheT
perfonsa< fliall froifi tetimebe specially appointed and employed by the Supcrvifors of Diftridls for
that purpose. - . - -
111.
The Supervifsrs of the faveral Diftriifts will, prior to the firft day of July ending, and as soon ss
may be practicable, markorflamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcelaof Vel'mm, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of thefiid duties ; Oi
ftamp«d vellum, parchment and paper may at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rates prescribed bylaw, by application to any Superviior, Infpadfor. Officer of Inspection.
or other purfoa appointed for the diftributica of StaiHps, by the Supcrvifors of Diftrids
GIVEN under my Hand, at PbttadelfAij
lie duj and year aiovenentinned.
< OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secretary of the Treasury.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
March sOt/i. 179®.
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT byanatfl of Congrcfs pal Ted on the
19th day of March, 1798, the following
alterations and amendments have been made to
the pasTed on the 6th day of July 1797, en
titled 44 An adl laying duties on ftanlped vel
" lum> parchment and paper.' •
The llamp duties on debentures or certifi
cates for the drawback of Customs or duties on
Imports are repealed.
A discount at the rate of, seven and one half
per Centum, will be allowed by the Supervisors
or Infpe&ors refpetHively, to any perfops other
than Officers of the Kevenue, who may pur
chase at one time or procure to fee ftamped,anv
quantities of Vellum, Parchment t>r Paper, upon
which the duties (hall amount to Ten Dol
lars or upwards.
111.
Stamped Paper, will be provided , and fold at
the rates prescribed by law. without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for ftimped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional price will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each (kin of Parch
ment, or Two Hundred Cents for each skin of
Vellum of Ynedium size, uhich may be furniffc
ed at the expense of the United States and pro
portionally for any lefler quantity-
Given under my handy at Philadelphia, the
day andyeir abovementiored.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
To be Let,
(And poffeflion given on tht 1 ft of May)
A genteel three story brick House,
12 Let front, asid 40 feet deep, with hack buildings
and flibles.at present in the tenure of Major Jack
son. Enquire at 187 South Third street.
April 2. §
The Co-partncrfhip of the Subscribers,
TRADING UNDER THE FIRM OF n
Joseph Davidson Ssf Co.
IS this day dissolved by mutual consent, all those
having claims against said firm, are desired to
render their accounts, and those indebted to make
payment to Joseph Davidfon, who is duly autho
rised tof«ttle tke affairs of *heconcern.
JOSEPH }. MILLER.
JOSEPH DAVIDSON.
N. B. 'i'he Stores at the corner ©f Market and
Fourth Streets are now to be let. —Enquire ol Jo
seph Davidfon.
April a 6 w&sam
TO BE SOLD,
4°>959 acres of Land.
IN Greene County, Commonwealth of Pennsyl
vania, on the waters of Fifli and Wheeling
Creeks and Tell Mite Rhd.
These Latids are fertile and well timbered, and
abound in Coal 5 they were fold ten ytars r*gofor
five ihilliogs per acre ; patented early in a 787, ex
cept 370 c acres, which were patented in 1751';
part of them were surveyed in 1783. The tra&
is between the Ohio and Monongahcla, very con
venient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of Washington, from 14 to 16 from the
village of Greenefburgh and Wheeling.
On payment of one lourth of thepurchafe mo
ney, a reasonable credit will be given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer. V
april 21. §
TO BE SOLD,
26,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of New York, between tfcc northern
bounds of Pcnnfylvania and the Sufquehanna
now or late in the townlhips of Hamdcn and
Warren and county of Warren. •
'i hefe Lands, i r om th: ir quality and situation,
are a very defirabh* obje<fl for any man who means
to invefl his money to advantage.
61 payment of one third of the purchase mo
ney, a reasonable credit will 1 e given for the red
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april 2T. $
Country Residence.
A FAMILY who live Six *'iiles from the City,
Kvifh to receive two or three genteel boaid
ers. The Houfc is han< 4 fomely turnifhed ; the
Gardens, Msadows and Lawn are beautifully laid
out, and well llocked with the choice!* Fruit.
There arefeviral Musical Inftrumsnts, amongfl
which is a mod excellent patent Piano Forte. The.
Family have a handfoire Coach, which may beat
theferviceof the whole.
The Coach House and Stables are most excellent
-the' Water good—and the Air unequalled in the
■•environs of the Town.
For particulars enquire at the office of this Ga
zette. dtf may 16.
1 ADVERTISEMENT.
WHEREAS the fui fcriber and his wife Jane
Hodgkinfon, have by mutual consent agreed
to liva separate and apart from each other from
bed and board, these are therefore to forewarn all
persons fromtrufling heron my account, as by
contrail (he is to fupportherfelffor the future, and
1 am determined not to pay any debt of her con
trading. SAMUEL HODGKINSON.
may 15: r *jtiaw
Treasury .Department,
March 19, 1798. t
NOTICE IS HEREBY-GIVEN,
r T" v H ATpropolaU will be received at the
t Ihe Secretary of the Treasury until the expi
ration of the i*th day of July next ensuing, for •
the of all rations which may be requited
for the use of the United States, fromthe firli day of
October 1798", to the thirtieth day of September
1799, both days inclusive, at the places and withm
the diOfrk& hereafter viz. At Ofwcgo ;
at Niagara ; at Pcefque Isle ; at Michilimackinac ;
at Fort Franklin ;at Pittsburgh ; at Le Beuf; at
Cincinnati ; at Greenville ; at Pkque ToWn and
Loramie's Sfore; at Fort Wayne; at Fort Defi
ance ; at any place helew Fort Defiance on the Mi
ami River to Lake Eric ; at Fort Knox and Ou*-
tanon on the River Wabaih; at MalTac; at any
place or places on theeaft fide of the River
fippi above the mouth of the River Ohio, and up
on the Illu.ois River ; at any place or places on the
east fide of the Mif&ifippi River bck>\v the mouth,
of the River Ohiotocjie southern boundary of the
State of Kentucky, and within the said Stat/ ; at
Kuoxvillc, Tellico Block House, and at all other
Posts in the State of 1 'enneffee; at anyplace or
piac«i on the eeft fide of the River Miffifiippi, be
low the southern boundary of the State of lennef
fee, to thsfouthem boundary of the United States.
If supplies fliall be required foranypofts or
places not mentioned in this notice,all fuchiupplies
fliali be furnilhed at prices. to those to
thepo"« before retired, as may he agreed on be
tween die United States and the contra&or.
The rations te be supplied to confiil of th" fal
lowing articles, viz. m
One pound of bread or flour
One pound of beef or twelve ounces of pork
• or bacon
Half a jill of rum, brandy or whif-"^
ky, one quart of Salt, two quarts (
of vinegar, two pound* of soap, ( rat ; ons
one pound of candles J
The rations are to be furniOred in such qu entities,
as tint there fball at aHtimes during the said term,
be fufficient for the coofuraption of the troops at
Michilimackinac, Detroit, Niagara, and
for the term of fix mg iths in advance, and at each
of the other posts, for the term of at leall three
months i« advance, in good and wholesome provi
sions, if the fame (hall be required. It i* t» be un
derstood, that the contra&er is to be at the ex
p nee and rilk of issuing the fuppli<£to the troops
at each polk, and that all lofles ftulained by the de
predations of an enemy, or by means of the
troops of the United States, {hall be paid for at
the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on
the depofitionsof'two or «;ore persons of credita
ble chara&ers, and the certificate of a commiflion
cvl officer, afcertainirrg the circunafiances of the
loss and the am unt of the articles for wh»oh com
penfotion (hall be claimed.
The priviledge is reserved to the United Statep
of requiring that none of the supplies which may
be furnilhed under the proposed contrail, iball be
itTued, until the supplies which have or may be
furnilhed under the contrail now in farce have
b«sen consumed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Stertiary of the Treasury.
"mirc'i ty. »wa ly
MILITARY ACADKMi
THE Public are mofl refpedlfully informed,
that a Military Academy is opened in the
Northern Liberties in the house formerly belong
ing to John Masters, esq. between the German- 1
Town and Frankfort roads, North Second- ;
street continued
Br JOHN BARBER,
Late of the 60 1 Britilh regiment of Foot and
afliftant Engineer to the Army a&ing in the
Weft-Indies.
Where gentlemen will be tan ht manual
Extrcife and mide completely acquainted with
all the duties of fticers, non-cunnniffi<»ried of
ficers asrf private soldiers in camp, garrison and
Quarters ; the forms of regime tal at>d field re
turns, detachments, roller* &c- &e alf the
art of drawing -plans, feflionsand geometrical
elevations, the elements of tactics, gunnery and
fortification. A fubferrption lift is left at. the
bar of the City-Tavern, where the terms and
the outlines of the proposed regulations may be
The lunation is extremely well adapted
to the undertaking and eight acres of ground are
set apart for the pirgofe,
N. U. Gentlemen from the Country boarded
m the house if required.
may j~. / diwaiwim
HEAD ACHE.
PERSONS afflivSled with the Head Ache, pro
ceeding fr»m wh tever cause, will find in
slant relief in the application ef
Dr. Church's Ancdyng Eflence,
Li Rheomvic, Ntrvousr.nd Biiliou* Head Aches,
it has not its equal. It not only alleviates that
tormenting pain, but removes itaimoft intlantane
oufty. The Head Ache occasioned byhird drink
ing, and any local pains in any other part of the
boijy or extremities, are by its application effe&u
aljjr removed
CASES OF'CURE.
Ta Dr. Cuuxca.
Dear Sir,
I have been fubjeil to a very severe Head Ache
for several years, which sometimes used to affliifl
me to such a violent dagree, as to>difable me from
attending my duty as Draftfman of the Tower,
for several days together. I have had the advice
of several eminent Physician* in this city and m
Wales, and have tried several other remedies re
commended to me without effeA Beingon* day
extremely indisposed with the Head Ache as usual,
I Tent for you, when you recommended your Ano
dyne Effenct to me, which I applied, and which
remov d the pain, as soon as I applied it.—l fre
quently repeated the use of it, and am happy to
lulorm you, I have had no return of ic.
I am, Dear Sir,
Your obedient Servant,
JOHN BARNES.
Drdiving Ream, Tower of London, May 9, 17 >J•
From the Morning Advcrtifcr, March 16 1795.
Auothcr gentleman in his Majesty's service in
the Fower of London, has been extremely affil
ed with the Head Ache for some years, and some
times tofo violent a degree, as to prevent him from
attending the duties of his office ; at oh? of which
times, he sent for some of Dr. Church's Anodyne
feffence, which he applied, and which removed the
pain inffantaneouily ; Jnd he is happy in aflfrfthing,
that he has had no return of th« pain iince.
The above gentleman, whose and address
maybe known at the place of falc, will teftify the
above, to any candid enquirer.
Church's ANODYNE ESSENCE, is prepared
and fold (only) by the Inventor and Proprietor,
DR. JAMES CHURCH,
At his Medicine Store, No. 1, South Thud street,
Philadelphia.
WHFRE MAY ALSO BE HAD,
Church's Cough Drops, a medicine unequalled by
any other in the world, for the cure of Coughs,
Aithmas and Consumptions.
Also, his Cordial Rejlcratiw Balfim, for Nervous
Disorders, Inward Weaknesses, Debilitated Consti
tutions, and Disorders incident to Your.g Girls and
Women at certain periods of life ; celebrated Eye
Salve, for all diseases of the Eyes ; Vegetable Lotion,
for the cure of Freckles, Sunburns, Pimples, and
all Eruptions of the Face and Skin, Shingles, and
die Prickly Heat ; Volatile c Ti*&ure i an immediate
core for that excrutiating pain the Tooth Ache ;
Scotch Outwent, for ths cure of ths Itch, in four
hoars, viti ut a particle of mercury, or any per
nicious ingredients; and Anifyafmndic Elixir t for
the cure of all kinds of Fits.
may 10. aaw^w
The Cargo of the Brig Minerva
FRdM BOURDEJTJX,
CO Mil ST I,N G OP
Claret inhhds.and Cases
Oyl, Capers, Olives, Anchovies and Prunes
FOR SALS BY
Ihonas FUnfimonl
roay a 6.
FOR SALE
BT THE SUBSCRIBERS,
The Cargo of the Ship Richmond,
Captain Hathaway, from Bengal,
Gurrahs, wkite Guzzies
Ditto, blue Guzzenahs
Salums Emerties I
Gorahs IVIow Saunas
Mamoodies Peniaicoes
Tlckiries Baftas
RonsalU Coflas
Doreas Tanjebs
Chintz Ma Ida Cloths
Saul Guzzies Carwak Cloths
An elegant affurtment of
Madras Handkerchiefs
Benares SUGAR
COTTON and GINGER
Mordccai Lewis.
may 25. d2wjawaw
~ The Rev. Dr. Blair's
DISCOURSE,
Delivered on the late National Fast Day.
1 Is jufi Publi'hed, by
James Wat tea iff Co.
And may alio be had of the principal bookfellers#
The ftrft volume of the Weekly Magazine
With art appendix coutlining tfee President's
melTage and the dispatches is now published,
and may be had of the publishers—the prin
cipal booksellers in Philadelphia by George
Hill, Baltimore and by Alexander Somerville
New-York —A few copies of the Dispatches
may be had fe par ate.
may 2<r eodtf
Robert Smith iff Co.
No. 58, South Front-Jlreet. .
HAVE received by the (hip Belvidere from
London, a quantity of Raffia Good*, con
fiftin of Diapers, Drillings, Raven*-duck, &c.
And by tke Fanny, arrived at New-York from
Glasgow, an aflortinent of S.otch goods.
They have also on hand India Nankeens,
Luteftringn, and a variety of India Muslins.
may 'y d3W
30 Dollars Reward.
I HE Cellar of the Subscribers was broke
open last night, and several pieces of Stor
mount ground Chintz of a set figure were car
ried off. hoever will apprehend the thief or
thieves, or recover the goods, shall receive the
above reward, or in proportion for any part
thereof. ROBERT SMI TH & Co.
Nj 58 South Front -Jlreet.
may 13 , dzw
CANNON,
Musket and Pistol Cartridge Papers,
A L'ABCV ASSOITMENT
Is now ready for sale by William Young,
Boohfe ler, No. 52, Second Street, the
corner of Chefuut Jlreet.
OF - HOM MAV H HAD
Baron Steubens Regulations for the Order and Difci
pl'ine of the Troopsof the United States.— To ivhicb it
added, an aft of Congress concerning tin: Militia, price
CO tents : do. large prints 67 cents.
W. Young,
Has for sale, on the loivtjl terms, for cafb or negociallt
Notes,
Large writing, printing & drafting paper,
ALSO,
Foolscap y Pofl, Folio and 4 to. Poflof various fzes t
gilt and plain ; ink wax, wafers, puktt
ink flmds, black lead pencils, quills, rulers, cafe* if ma
thematical infirumentj, gunter scales, parchment and oft
Jit in memdrandum books, pen knives, india rubber and ink*
Ross is? SiMSon,
HAVE FOR SALE,
22 bales superior Madrafs blue Cloths
Carolina Indigo, firft quality
A few hales Baft at, Coffaes, and a quantity of
Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica and}
Bengal J
april z $
For Sale,
The American from Laguira,
CONSIST 1 NO OF
Ca r accas Cocoa.
Henry Philips,
No. 11 a, Souih Fourth Street.
April 13 • S
Freih teas.
Jujl Imported, in ihejhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sale, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Comptiag Haufe, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,
AN® BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Compting Houl'e, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea, Souchong, Hyson, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, aflorted ; black and coloured Lute
\ firings and Sattins, Nankeens, Cassia, large garden
and common Faus, fattin and luteftiijog Umbrellas,
whale-bone ftick6.
Tbey have also Far Sale,
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchief*,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai
march 8. §
Now Opening,'.
At Willi a m M'Laws Saddle Manufa&ory,
No. 72, Chef nut Street,
A general aflbrtmeat of Horfernan's
Piflols, direwi from the iVI a nufssShirers in London*
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridies, Holders, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartourh Buxes, Va
lices, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
April 9 dtf
FOK SALE^
HPHE whole or on. half of a PLANTATION
L on the river Delaware, between Burli-ngton
and Bordenton (two miks from the latter), con
taining about 400 acres ; 60 of which, are bottom
meadow, and 100 wood land ; there are 30 acres
of red clover to cut this year (exclusive of mea
do*r) but will exceed jc the next ; and any quan
tity of manure may be had forthc upland from the
meaaow without injury.
An orchard of grafted fruit yielding between 60
and 70 hogsheads of excellent cider ; a
house with a barn, {table, granary and other ne
celTary buil tngs go with one part ia cafe of a di
vision ; on the other are no improvements, but has
pne of the moil elegant Cuiations for a house to he
; seen on the river. The land is of good quality,
suitable for grazing or agriculture, and convenient
to market by land or water. For terms apply to
the owner on the prewifes.
» \ » Thomas St- John.
Maj- s cotlti'