/ " , v /
' . f r
" " V ' . ' .Vff
of tt-c s=}|Utiti
By John Ward Fenno, N°- iig Cbefnut Street.
fcffMtiF.* 1 95 1 'J
: 0- The price of tins Gazette is
Eiipt dollars per anniM to Subfcri
ben residing in the city of Philadel- J
phia. All others pay one dollar ad- |
Stional, for enclojing and direfting;
and unless some perfm in this city will or
became anfiverable for the fubfcrip
iivn, it muH be paid Six Months in
advance
\ _ ii • •*
For Sale,
J"—3_ THI ship
BOSTON PACKET ' 4C
Hdlings Cow>«>TgwA«T, Matter,
tURTHEN about 2,jco barrels, a go-dftrong
Ship—has excellent aocommodationsfor passengers,
„' P JW fe» with fin.ll expence. She. lay
injj at Mifflin's wharf. For further particular en
quire of
Isaac Harvey, jun, or
Smith & Ridgway. S
november 16 51 it
VT Said Clip, if not fold on, or before tha sth
of Dre.mber,in!l. will on that day. in the evening,
be offered lor sale by public aailion, at the mer
rhants's coffee house.
Smith y Ridgway,
Isaac Harvey, jun. as
dec. 3 . : £
FOR SALE,
JK— * TUB SHIP
PERSEVERANCE, h
Jaw: iFiiliamfon, majler. -fc
Tuft arrived from St Domingo, built in Phi- Q
lacielpbia, rf live Oak and Cedar, topper (heath- ([
ed in London, burthen 310 tons mounting 16 C(
L'unj and may be prepared for sea in a tew days,
, With her Cargo,
Now on Board,
CONSISTING OF
151 Hog(head» and 50 barrels Sugar
a«o,oo3 Weight of prime Coffee in hhds. bbls
and bags &
31 Psnchcons of Jamaica Rum.
ALSO, ti
Williamson, Maj(er.
FROM St. Domingo, wi'h her cargo, confining of
43 hogsheads of Sugar,
And 40,000 weight of prime Coffee.
LIKEWISE,
V—THE BRIO tl
AMIABLE MATILDA,
MOUNTING ti Guns, burthen
thousand two hundred barrels of
flour, 5
~ For Sale.
TJ| he Soßseßi»«*. intending to decline the
DRUG BUSINESS, offers For- Sale, the
■whole 6tock of
Drugs and Medicines, Instruments, ,
The (hop is elegant, commodious, and fuffici
antly known for the extensive bitfinefs cone mthe
wholefaU and retail line ; the situation equal to
any in the city, being at the c„i ncr ot Walnut and
Seeond ftr«ets. The whole, or any part ot the
Stock, wilt ba fold, as will befl.fuit the purchaser.
Tha terms may be known, by applying to
J A MliS MOORE, jun,
Wlo has For Sale,
tor the river trade—
The Peggy, about 3otonsburthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably
flout, of an easy draught of water, rigging in
good order.
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
well, and in complete order forthelumberbufmefs.
0- All persons indebted to the late firm
GMlUoait ts* BaUviiu, If. S GcUtbxoait, Gcla-
Jbfdil V Abort, or the fubferi er, are earnestly
■requested to make speedy payment to
JAMES MOORE, jhn.
JZ3SLS. _ 1_
BOSTON BEEF,
200 Barrel* in Shipping Order.
FOR SALE BY
JOHN SKTRIN,
No. 96, Aorth Front Jireet.
Who wants to Charter,
A GOOD STOUT VESSEL,
Of about 300 Tons burthen.
/MS ALSO FOR SALE,
40 Pipes of Madeira Wine, 3 years old.
nov «i m4t
for Wilmington;
N!o rth-Carolina,
THE SHIP
.yvgjNr COMMERCE,
Captain Wood,
take in freight on very mo
tic rate terms, and fail about the
-asthinftart. Apply to the Captain on board at
Latimer's vrharf, or
Wiliings Francis,
Penn Street,
november 16 §
FOR SALE,
The fqfi failing Schooner
THREE SISTERS,
~ m xs ready to take a cargo on
boaru, iuppoficd wiH carry 600 c 6jo barrels.
ALSO, A SMALL IMVOICE
JAVA COFFEE,
Subject to drawback,
Enquire of
JEiIU HOLLING3WORTH ts" Co.
A'a. 47, PtnttStrer:
aeeember ,1 dtf
PHILADELPHIA: TUESDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 18, '798. [Volume XIV.
For Neia-York & Bojlon.
Krffiii# The new and fad failing Sloop .
:r MrV PRI ' SIDENT ' PACKET ' J
James Brjcibtt, majler.
WILL fail with all convenientfpeed—For freight
or passage apply to the mailer on board, lying at
Chcfnut-ftreet Wharf >.
WHO HAS FOR SALE, to
On board said Sloop,
30 bbls. of cod-oii, fined quality
ao do. of herring and (had
Few half do. mackrael
A fmill quantity of fmoaked herring
60 bbls. of w inter pears
5000 bunches of onions
4000 lbs. of excellent eheefe, r
, Philadelphia, dc. 11. t eo^3t
Ship Broker's Office, <
And Commission Store,
No. 1:9, South front Strfft,
Next dosr to she Custom Houfc.
nr">HE Subscriber, encouraged Dy the advice of
X his friends, offers his service to the public J
as a Ship and Insurance Broker. He propof W
e» to buy and fell vtflels and every thing relat
ing thereto —alhft inafters of vtffels and olhers
in'entering and clearing at the Custom-House, -,-j,
procuring and (hipping freight, fettling Inlur- v ;
ancc ar.d all other mercantile accounts, ami a p
have on hand the oeceffary Blau ks and Stamps.
Papers in foreign hnguages iranflated, and in-
Mormation given in general mercantile matters.
1 —-F, xfia « Wn<»wLaxlfr<- jralncd by long «XperiCTiCe
I of every branch of buiiwefs he hopes to be ute
" ful to those who please to favor him with their
6 commands. SAMUEL tMERT.
'' I november 19 § j
I For SALE or CHARTER, sti
THE SHIP th
:s l MOLLY, ai
I Burthen 42C0 barrels of Flour,
I Philadelphia built, well found
| -v anc l fitted, and may be ready
Ito receive a cargo in a few daye—(he is pierced
I 18 gunc, and mounts 12 new fix poußders, with
fmail arms in proportion.
,-,-0 THE SHIf L
>f DIANA,
I Burthen 2,100 barrels of Flour,
' Philadelphia built of live oik
I and c?dar, i» pierced for four
tsen guns, tnd mounts ten new four pounders,
I with small arms in proportion.
n at»(av THE BRIG
,r AMAZON,
| ;^rSi?feW New _ ]E:ngTand buiit. nis Tatety r
_ J been completely fitted, and may be ready for sea
I in a few days.
For termMpplyto
ic j AHCXLIb y GRIFFITH.
»e j Who have for Sale
j on board sundry vejfcls at MjiRCUS-Heol,
-• I 12,000 buthels of Liverpool fine fait
'* I 1,100 bushels of coals
le j 286 crates of queens ware assorted
t0 I 7 tierces df bottled porter
ld I 10 barrels of coleothard pa'mt
1C I 4 do. of purple brown do.
r ' I a quantity of yellew orre in casks
6 bjrrels powdered Venetian red paint
6 barrels mineral black do.
15 barrels Spanilh brown do.
1 I 35 boxes of pipes
M 91 boxes white j HAVANA SUGARS T
89 do. brown J I
*» I 3,5 00 'b8- prime coehineal
3 barrels New Orleans indigo
[j I 4 puncheons Jamaica ipirits
,l v I 20 bales of fail eanvafa
ir, I 379 (heetsof copper, assorted from 48 by 24
to 6c by 48 inches
j Two tubs raised still bottoms assorted
I 36 fix pound gaits 4 J feet, 8 jewt each
I 14 do. 4 feet, icwt and 4lbs each '
k j 50 barrels of pun powder
if" I 6 cases Mancheftercotton checks
' j 3 trunks muslins and (hawls
14 cases mi.dinets, dimities and grnghams
I »8 chest« coloured nankeens, muflinets,&c.
I 12 trunks printed calicoes
6 bales of white and coloured caflimeres
1 bale of course woollens
I English nails assorted.
I Ocflober 27. fri.&fat- tf.
AUGUSTUS FRICKE,
Woollen Draper ss* Men's Mercer
No. "J, south Third Jireet,
HAS RECEIVED,
n I ptr the lalt arriv.it from Europe, a large aflort
ment of the f;tfnion?.bl<' Ooods ill his line,
I And has conjlanlly for file a general ajfort
menl of
I First rate London luperfine Broad
Cloths
Caflimeres
| Veil Partrrns of all kinds
» I And every other article in the gentleman's line
-> I i>y wholesale and retail.
1 december IO
Z\ R.TAYLOR,
1 at MUSIC PROFESSOR,
NO. '96, NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
I j") ESI'ECTFULLY informs the Public that
I IV he continues to teach Ladies the Piano I
t I Forte as usual.
j Nov. 6. tuthsa
~ I " IVANT E D.
1 Convenient Lodgings, for an elderly
I Ladv, ill a relpe<ftab!e private family, where
1 there are no children. Enquire at this ofiiee.
3, dec 4 d ' m
on NOTICE.
I A LL persons indebted to the edate of jAMrs
t f\_ Thompson, of the Indian Queen, Fourth
I dreet are desired to make payment to
j the fubfcrisers —and ihofe who have any demands
I tly said «ita:e, arc requested to fend in their
I accounts dulyattcfted for fcttlement, to
1
I JOHN THOMPSON, i Adminifirotar.
tf j boy. 13 d lm
FOR BREMEN,
thk BRIG Co
SPECULAIfON,; .
Akino Wistinc, Mmtx», J
Now laying at Henry Pratt's whart the fir'i 1
below Race Urett—(he is a Bremen botbiii ; two
hundred and twenty tons burthen j will ail with
all pollible dlfpatch—For freight or paffagc apply Whi
PRATT KINTZING,
no. 95, north Water-Jlreet.
W ho have for sale, a variety of
GERMAN GOODS,
—fiz.— n ft
Ticklenburghj Patterbornes ale
Oznabrigs Checks 1
Medians Stripes ~*~"
Brown rolls Slippers
Coffee bags Cambricks A ,
Platillas Twine
Brittinias Glass tumblers
Eflopailles Port wine
Creas ali Morlaix Window glass
Bielelield liner. Bnmftone, & . E
DoroUs
december T3 th.fa.ma.3w
FOR LIVERPOOL, ~
THE ARMED SHIP MOLLY, J '
ffydtfkr Burthen 340 Tons;
A dout Will-found vessel. She is now 1
ready to receive her Cargo, and will C
3tail on the fird opeiiing of the river.
1 Three-lourrhs of her Leading being already pro- P
viJed—for Freight for the remainder, or Faffage, E-'l
' apply to a
NICKLIN & GRIFFITH. 40c
dec. 13. tuth&s tf.
■ ■ Rev
! REMOVAL. L >
Sab
George Dobson, Iro f '
INFORMS his friends and the Public '■ general
that he has removed from No. 25. Sokth I'hird p
Street, IB No 92, South fide of Market-irect, near
the corner ol Third Street, and is no* opening
a very extensive affortmcnt of
DRY GOODS,
j SUn ABLE FOR THE PRESENTSZJSON,
f WHICH HE HAS JUST R(CEIVI>,
j Per the ships William Penn, Amiable, and Jane, .
t from London, and per Chefepeak and Thomas
from Liverpool, and will b« fold low for calh,
or approved notes at a (hort date, viz, Opi
Loadon2j4 Superfioe Cloth® and £fl .
Yorkftiire 7 4 do* aHd'?- ours Wr
, Mixed and plain coatings ~ ~ tm
t Welch flannels Jur
Kerfty beavtr, for Spencers A j
, Jeannets and Tabby cords
Velvets aad velvctteens
Velverets aad thickfetts
7, 8, 4 4 and 11-8 cotton and linsn checks
7-8 and 4 4 bed tics
6-4 and 7-4 bed bunts
y fUn.'UUi w* Cirvvvrait* * ' » - -
a Do. dimities
Purple and chintz (hawls
Silk do. r
Camels hair do.
Silk, cotton, and worded hose
India and Britilh muslins of every defeription
Black and white erape -J-
Tiffany and paper fans
Hats assorted in'f.ftall cases an
Umbrellas
Poelings and fattins
Laces and edgings
Ribbands
Silk Modes
Superfine French cambrick
Cambrick mudius
Do. threads
Pulicat and Madras Handkerchiefs,
And an elegant ajfortment of di
S BrufTels and Wilton Carpeting. »
november 17 § nl
For sale by the fubfcrlbers, c<
t4 A FEW BALES OF
WOOLENS, I
Containing Cloths & Blankets,
;h ' 150 b»lcs Bengal »ufiins
20 do. Madras handkerchiafs, elegant pa'-
?erns
202 pieces Ruflia (heeting
, 10 boxes umbrellas
, c a quantity of eaflia
30 tons Peter(burg clean hemp -1
25 pipes, 3 years old, fined particular Ma- J
deira wine
a quantity of Hieathing copper
Mordecai Lewis.
nov. 26 r
Imported «
IN THE LAST ARRIVALS,
Superfine, fine aad common cloths ,
rt _ Swandowns
Baizes
rtw Velvetts
Velveretts
Printed calicoes
id Furniture & fancy dimities (
Hair ribbands t
Sewing silk I
Brussels and Persia catpetts
ine Buttons
For sale, for cajh or credit, by
f SAMUEL MERRICK.
no. 243 Arch ftrcet.
Nov. 16 §t Jan I
hat LANDING,
ano From on board the Brig Amiable Matilda,
Richard Stites, Master, from Cape
L_ Nicbola Mole.
23 Bales Socks and Flannel Drapers "J
T l y 18 Do Gaiters (Jg£. g.
' I 1 % Do. Rugs I =• »
iere 1 Do. Havre Sacks j »» » \
» Do. Flannel Trowfcrs '
" » Do. Tents, J f
Also just Imported,
Hfi in the Ship Chefapeabe, Captaia Web'j, fiom
jrth Liverpool,
- 147 Crates of Queen's Ware,
heir Assorted particularly toTuit the Weft-India 1
Market —For Sale by
'*•" Thomas b* John Ketland.
n november 7 ''
Bond & Brooks,
Cormea or Market and Sixth sYreets,
HAVE RECEIVED,
by the late arrivals from London, Liver
pool and Hull, ' s tl
A LARGE AND GENERAL ASSORMENT Of n '
DRY GOODS, Z
Which they are now openirg for sale, at the mod to >
reduced prices, lor ca(h or the usual credit. to a
nov .17 #
Old Madeira Wine.
27 pipes of old London particular
MADEIRA WINE, J
n strong iron bound Hambro' Ca%s, for ext
ale by ROBERT ANDREWS.
Nov. 30. eodtf
JAMAICA RUIVL
A Cargo new landing at South Jireet wharf,
FOR SALE BY
PETER BLIGHT,
Apply at Stores on the Wharf,
VHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SALE, Lit]
BRANDY, id and 4th prool
Madera and Port WINES, &c. &c.
Nav. I. dtf_ „
JuJl imparted in Jhips William Penn, A
miable and Jean,from London,
f A laantity of Cannon,fizes 4,6 & 9 lb. "> with balls '
1 Ca-ronades, 12 lbs. j suitable. I ,° 1
, Mufqnets, Mufqueto'ons, Cutlafles and"| ® , tr
Pilfols, for (hips use, I g. tic '
( Rifled barreled Guns, Fowling Pieces,! § S*
and Horfemah'sPiftols, f Ssi
40c fioo Flints, cUefiy for muskets, in j 1
kegs. J 1%
Regulation Light Dragoon Sabres, with Iron Scab
bards, in cases of 50 > «h,
l.ight Cavalry Swords in Cases 1
Sabres, Swords and CuthflVs, with plated mounting the
Ironmongery and Cutlery in calks, a general as- ing
for talus t —For Sale by Lo
2"hotnas is" Jno. Ketland, eJ
PhHad. October 25.
r _ to
' Juil Arrived,
In the Brig Eliza, from the Mediterranean, and 0
now landing at Walnut Street wharf,
> Fourth proof Brandy in Pipes.
Brimdone. ,
j An assortment of valuable DRUGS,
j CONSISTING OF
Opium, Aloes, Cantharides, Camphire, Senna, H
Cremor Tartar, &c. &c. Ba
Effenccs of Lemon rnd Bergamot th<
Writing paper I in
On^^, ! i-''"- h " tt lgsjndflaCc» 1 wl
Juniper berries Lk^
A LS o.—ltalian lutedrings
Satins 1'
Crapes
Umbrellas t
ts Remaining on Hand,
St. Croix Sugars,
Claret in cases
JAMES YARD.
November $ y — J
Genteel Boarding fcf Lodging, *
IN A HEALTHY SITUATION.
>n "\/T RS - informs h«r friends aad the
-LVA PubJic, that flie is prepared to accommo- a
date federal GcnMcmra, wiih genteel Boarding
and Lodging, at No. i 7, Filbert ftrcet. d
nov. 28 otf
James & William Miller, p
A'o. 53, North Third StreeJ, '
Near Arch ftreCt, have the following articles for
sale upon moderate terms for ca(h, or the a
usual credit.
Scarlet Cloths,
Low and middling quality, Mulberry and Green
ditto, White, Red, and Yellow Iri(h FlanneU,
it. Blue, Green, and Mulberry half thicks. India ca-
Jicoes, Gurrahs, Mamoodies, Guanines, and other
muslins, fancy and plain cotton hose, velvets,thick- c
_ fctts and fancy cords, sewing silk and twist of all e
colours, ferreting, hair ribbon, coloure ' threads,
India flag bandauoe,, and other black and colour
ed silk handkerchiefs, a variety of other cotton
Jo. Soutc romals, red Gilla handkerchiefs, mo
; leens, foan fpioiing. fullians, beavers, jeans, fa
' tmetts and royal ribbs, also ntuflinets and dimities,
ginghams, la#es' kid and coloured gloves; &c.
2 ' diot
John Dobbin, i
BOOT & SHOEMAKER.
RESPECTFULLY informs his Friends and 1
the Puhlic in general that he carries on his I
business at No 9f) South '■'econd-flreet, nearly op
polite the Merchants Coffee house whsre gen
tlemen maybe ftipplied in the neateil and best
r manner—he affnres :hofe who may please to fa
— vor him with their commands that no attention
or exertion on his ftde (hall be wanting to render
him Wonhy of their encouragement.
N. B. Orders received wtfl be punctually at
hs tended to.
November 5 $
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands against
tie estate of the late William Qlifton,
dtcrafed ,and who have noualrcadv produced their
th<ir accounts, are requeftod to fend them to the
fublcriber at no 172, north Second street.
ELIZABETH TUCKER, Adm'i
Philadelphia, nov. 29, 1798 m&th4w
1'
K - JOHN SHIELDS,
BROKER,
Embraces this opportunity to prejient his thanks
to his fellow-citizens for their ptfl favbrs
j a and acquaints them that he is returned from
Chefnut-HiH, to his former refider.ee, the
Houfc Ao. *1 Chefnnt between Front
and Second-street,
,5? TT THERE he holds himfelf ready to execute
.2. VV their commands in evtry branch of his
- » profeflion, truftir.g that from a residence in this
u city of 3 j years he has it in his power to render
2 them essential service, assuring them that his
? (hall be as low as any in I own.
Lott», Lands, Houses, Vessels, Certificates
i»m of every defeription and Bills of Exchange,
bought and fold, ihedocketts carefully exsm
> ined and clear titles made upon th« fborteA no
tice, by the public's humble servant,
,a,a I John Shields.
CJ* Good negotiable Note* .discounted
at a lour premium.
§ november 7 3awtf
NOTICE.
the copar rnsmuif or
r . HUDSON & YORKE,
is this day diflolved by mutual consent. All per'
sons indebted to said firm are rtquefted to m»k«
immediate payment —a -d those who have any de
mands are requelted to present them far fettlemenl
'ft t® WILLIAM HUDSON, v. ho it duly authorifsJ
to adju ft the lame.
1 WILLIAM HUDSON,
SAMUEL YQRK.E.
WILLIAM HUDSON,
NO. 54, NORTH ritONT STICtT,
Has for sale on the ulual terms, a very
extenlive aiTbrupent of
DRY GOODS.
D«c. to.
- ~~ FOR SALE
, By the Sub/cribers,
'* ON VERY LOW TERM* *
WAX CANDLES,
Of A SUPERIOR Q"U ALITV,
Either by the single box of 24ibs. or by the quan
tity.
WiUtfigs & Francis.
Nov. 14
U ' ' WOT ICE.
ALL Persons indebted to (ho Estate of dnc
[ s tor Hugh Hodge, decea'ied, are requelted
_! to nuke immediate payment—»nd those having
demands against the Eilate are delired to authen
ticate and prel'ent them to.
MARI.i HODGE, admini/lratrix.
SAMUEL HODGPEN, admimjlraior.
nov 20 $
,b- Notice is hereby Given,
THAT application will bj matin ai the i rea.
fury of tie United States, for the renewal of
Rg the following cer-ifieates of Funded Debt, ftan.l
--- ing in the name of Robert Whitworth, of Chelfea,
London, thefaid Certificates having been forward'
ed by the ihip Ellice, Hatvey, from London for
New-York, captured by the French, and fuppol'ad
to be loft.
No-11437, 6 Per Cent. Stock, dated New
j York, 18th April, 1796, fsr Dollars. 1481,47.
No. 8171, 3 Per Cent, dated New-York*
18th April 1796, for doHars 400.
SAMUEL MILEANK.
November 18 d6w
C J .
' Notice is hereby Given,
na, That application will be made at the
Bank of the United States for the renewal of
the following certificates of Bank flock, Handing
in the name of Hodgfon Atkinlon of London,
which were loft from on board the Swallow Pac-
Kidd, captured by the French, and all
ißge, 5662 anJTs'64<sf J fer a !|- e -i °' lcr jJ?
No. 3020, issued in lien of 110557^<*- —.
1105'', for 3 (hares.— 7 (hares.
THOMAS M-EUEN to* Co.
Nov. a 8 d3m
JAMES & RICHARD SMIIH,
T" T AVE this day retained from the country to
ineir 3to»p,_No. South-Front flreet,.
12 where they htve for f. le, a, usual, a large and g B .
o' ncral afTortment of European and Eaft-lndia
the DRY GOODS {
mo . moil of which have now arrived and are landing,
ling from the different veffeli, from Hamburgh, Lou
don, Liverpool and Hull.
if Their Customers by applying will find almost
every article generally imported, anal at as low •
prices for calh or credit, as tkey can be had else
where.
for N. B. A few Cases of Nurenbergh TOYS, a
consignment, to be fold by the cafe only.
Philadelphia, Nov. 1, 1798. drf
iViilltnery Koom,
net" No- 136, Market Street.
, ca _ ' I 'HREEorfour young women who are weH ac
ither "J" 2 * 1 ted with the Millenery business, and
lick- can bring good recommendations may be employ
s all "*• y app¥ n g as above to
cads, D. CHRYSTAL.
our- nov. 16 5
Englilh wrought Nails.
, fa-
ities, Imported in the Jhtpj Molly and Diana, from
"• LIVERPOOL.
2L_ 400 of Nails,
CONSISTING of 6d, Bd, iod, iitl, and
lod, flat points suitable for the southern
market—6d, Bd, iod, lid, and 2od, fine drawn
and sharps —also 5, 3, 4, and 6 clouts—fprigs—
n his tucks—l'aupper nails—fheathiag nails, l&c.
f op- 'OK IfllE BY,
gen- Robert Den 'tfon, junr.
b?" "7 Market-street.
0 fa-
Mion Fo r Sale,at the Stores of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
at- I 9S ca G" of nails assorted
ao bales of fail canvass, from No. 1 to 8
4 53 calks yellow ochre
—— 15 tierces bottled porter, 6to 14 doz each
London particular) Madeira Wm „
gainst Indla mark " 5
?ton Tencriffedo. in hoglheadtand pip
1 their P° rt do. ' n hhds.
to the Empty Cliret bottles
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Muflineti &%.
n'x assorted for the Weft-India market
4 w 4> lo> and9inch cablesand 10 coiltof cordage
Writing states, ink Hands and presses
ae purcheons Jamaica rum
I bale seaming twine
160 bundle, sheathing paper
banks M £hl ' m & Gri JP'b.
vdrJ a P ril 7 tuth&f.tf
° m TO BE SOLD,
.' PURSUANT to Ihe last will .nd teftamert of
± Muhail CATTS.deceaftd.a Vilaable
:ecnte
Plantation & Tradl of Land,
>f hit containing one hundre lai d seventy three acres,
nthis the Tellator's late residence, situated in North
ender Sufquehanna Hundred, Ceocif county, Maryland,
it his about three mile- from the tide-water of Sufque
haqua, and at a convenient distance from several
irites p'"*' °f worlhip of Friends ar d Pre/bytereans.
an( , e On the prenif*. are a Tan-yard and convcliien
,xlm' ces belonging thereto, in good repair ;
(I n0 _ houf», ftafcir, orchard and improvement«,
wi'h nor 15 acres efgood wateied mead w, and
I I a si fFcier.t propt-rti -n ul valuable timber.
, F(.r terms applj; to the f«l fcriler, in Wcft-No'-
anlt " tlngham, abont 3 miles £rom the premise's.
THOMAS WARING, F.accutor
Jilhmo Tith,i7(;B $Macpherfon's Blues.
BATTALION ORDERS,
ljt6 December 179?.
THE Blue* are ordered to meet at the
City Hall on Wednesday next the tyth inft.
6 o'clock in the evening, to carry into
eftrct the rcfolution of the last meeting.
By Order of the Commandant,
THOMAS M'EWFN, Adj: t.
Jamaica UM.
THE CARGO,
Of the ftip t?HARI ES, Captain .loiter,
Frnm rhc Korth fide of Jamaica,
Near 200 hhds. of fine high proof"
JAMAICA RUM,
Now Landing a: South Bre«t Wharf.
PETER BLIOHT.
TH E sH •'
CHARLES,
Captain Salve*,
Coppered, mount JWelve 6 pctinders and thirty
five men—returns imm«4iarely to Jamaica, for
Paffagc apply as above.
- Hef '7 1 d:m
For FREIGHT or CHARTER,
to arj part of EUROPE,
The Swedish Snow
W&k M A R I A x
Hjys Qior Kock, commander.
A rer. ly good vtfTel, about no tons bur
then. \ freight to Cadiz, or any pirt of the
Mediterranean v/ouldbt preferred. Enquire of the
Captain on b«ard at Vi-e Street Wharf'
,de; t;
The Subscribers have for sale,
Ma'aga Wine, in quarter cades
Red Fort ditto, in Pipes. Hhds and quarter calks
Q!d Madeira ditto, fit for immediate use
French Brandy
Spanilb (not co'c?ed)
Medoc ( larrt, in Cifct
Fir -r fort Ifirglafs
I nerr Cable, 9 inches
I ditto 12 inches
I new Hawfcr, 7 inches.
Philips y Cramond £? Co.
dec 17 * 3t I
~ FOR SALE, i
t AT NG 9» SOOTII WATIR-Street.
liifli Linens, 7-8 and 4-4, well
aflortcd, in whsle and half boxes
Checks, in ditto
Droghedas, a. dßrowa 7.8 beetledLincos
Irish Hackled Flax /
Seotts 1 hrsad
Men and Womens Comb»
Rtillia Duck, of au excellent quality, and
100 hhds. Aux Cayes Molasses.
By ISAAC H .RVET, junr.
nth. mo. 17 J 4W
* ' WJjeUware hl°°p of i
J ezm3n t formerly resided in l
Meade Alley, Sontn wark. light hair, freft, com. I "
p exion and blue e\es, ahout five-feet nine inch
-54 fl'grl.
Thomas Brown, ordinary seaman, about fire
f.et th.ee inches h.gh, l. fc h» hair, grey eye, and T
fw-jrthy, ahout 11 years of age. also, I
Richard Culven, ordinary seaman. -v.-... |
fret tix inches hi s l., ajeo twenty-three years, \
li jht hair, blue eyes and fwarthy.—Culven and '
Browr/are both natives of Philadelphia, and are i
supposed to be conceajed by some of their *c- e ' (
quaintance in this city. r,
__ ./TEBtfBM DECATUR, Fr
Con)mander of the Delaware
Sloop of Was.
**
JVO TICE,'
"PURSUANT to a Resolve of the Board of Fc
frullees of Washington Academy, in Som
etfet county, Maryland, authorising VVilli-am- /
Polk, efqr. majors Wilson, and '
William Jones, Membets of faia Board, to T"1
procure a principal teacher for said Academy— *
NO riCE is here, y given, that a gentleman quali- of
tad to teach the Greek and Latin Languages, Geo- e'e:
graphy and the Mathematics, and such other
branches of Literature as, it is customary ta teach ha »
111 such Schools, will meet with liberal encourage- a C
ment and it is prefvmed will be well accommodat- No '
e j 111 taking charge of this Academy. The bjjjld- »
«g 'S fpaciotis and vitill accomodate at lead fixtv
S;udents. '
Proposal, may be addrelTed to John D«nnis, No, o 1
lOs Aid.-street, Philadelphia, or to either of the O
three gentlemen aboxe-meHtigned, near Princtfe I com
Ajme, Maryland. « ,f
dec '7 j D
An excellent Horse Chair,
TO be foil on reaf jnable terms at the Livery
Stable, No. 28 North Third-Street,
N. B. The Horse belonged tp a gentlemen in
one ot the Troops in this City,
dec 17. 3awiw
Massachusetts District. artd
BY virtue of a Warrant from the honorable John whei
1 owell, elq. Judge of the Dili rid Court for exjn
th. Diftritt cf MafTachufitts, " There will t c es . Was
posed to sale at Awaion, at the Marflial's Office in
Boston, on Tuesday the firft day of Jpnuary next, O:
at eleven - Fi
ed from the wreck of the ft;p Corona, stranded T
at Cape Cod, and for which no claimant has ap- T'
peared—" said Box of Watches are to be fold for T<
the p ymet.t of Freight, Salvage, aud other chare- Tv
es, and for the benefit of all concerned,—vi?. W
Tin Box ? Silver Watches an d <
o a > 37 Gold ditto _
J 4 Papers Trinkets e
SAMUEL BRADFORD, raarftial-, 151
oi Massachusetts.
Dated at Boflon, "> tende
Dec. 6. 1798, f 17 dt H "°
ADVERTISEMENT.
A
O rt talC ° :
Todd <x IViott, ed, °
•3f the City of Philadelphia, Merchants, having thef/a
afligned over their. real, personal, and.
mixed, to the fnhfcribcrsfor- the benefit otall
ijieir Creditors—
Notice is hereby Given, Dee
TO all perfi nj who are indebted to the said
ellaie, that they are required to make irt)
mediate payment of their relpeAive accounts to TTO
tither of the alTignee>, in failure whereof legal 11 ,
mcafurcs will be taken for the recovery cf fu.chi ErifJnJ
dctitsasaac not difcha'gcd without delay. and t ; r
Join IVjJJmgton ~j will *U
'John Rhode* J-Afljgnecs. 111 whe
'hhn Alien. )
nov. j, 'u.ifc&fatFl P""*
jgjjj INITIO States, \ -
Pennlylvana Diilnil. ) •»*
NOTICE is hereby given that in purfuattre of a
writ 'o mi directed, frntn the Honorable
Ricuavd Prrms, E-fq. judge ot the Diftrift
Coort of the United State* in and fr r the Pern
-9?. fylvania Diilriil, will he exposed to pabl'C sale
at the at No. 117 to :>affafras (treeton Monday the 24th
h inft. day'of December instant. at 11 o'clock at noon,
. ; llt o 2 Hogsheads and
3 Barrels of Spirits.
The fame having been libelled against, prefecuted
;i. t. and cond«mnrd as forfeited in ihe said Court.
—— WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Marshal.
Marjhals Office, Dec. 15th, 1798
Book-Kkeping.
r >
»roof Wants a Place,
IN Alt ELIGIBLE
ACCOMPTING-HOUSE or OFFICE,
[T. A PERSON that Writes well, if a Ready Recfc-
oner, a pra&ical Sook Keeper, and can be
Well recommended, a line, (or personal applica
q, tion) direfled t« M. M, No. 71, North Seventh*
street, will be duly attended to.
N. B Books clofcd, and new Accompts open
ed, Partnerftiip Accompts adjaftsd, ora»y business
tbir'y- in the Bock Keepirg line, <fone;t the above place,
:a, for or abroad of Evening*.
dec 17 s - §
NOTICE.
~f" HE Stock-holders of the Compiny encorporat
s »c for re +ing a Permanent Bridge over the
River Sfhuylkill, are rrqucfted tc attend their
anntiil meeting on the firft Mondaj in January
' n-xt (being the 7th day of that montHl »: the City
Hall, at len o'clock in the forenoon, hr the pur
:der. pofc of choofinga Prefidsot, twelve Discdtors and
s bur- a ' rel^urcr f»id Company for tic enduing
. . year, as by law is dire&ed,
JOHN DORSEY, fec*y, protera.
dec 17 3awv7jy
\ BOUI" nine o'clock lad evening, a whin man
■ XX came into my (lore, and requested me tt
vance him a few dollars on a Candlfftick which
appears to be Clver. Presuming he had not g-*
calks it honestly, 1 aiked him from whom he received it,
and at the fame time called for afWtance, intending
to secure him, but he diredly mads his escape
Any person who can prove it to be their property,
may have it on paying for this advertisement, to
THOMAS BROWN,
Corner Stamper's alley, New-Market.
Dec. 15. ' f~t
TO BE'LET,
« ' A NE A T, convenient two«ftory frame HOUSE
* j andBAKE-H@USE,fituated in fou'h. Fnurth
I ftieet, below German ftreet—Thehoufe isincom-
I plete ori'er, having two rooms on a floor, with a
... fpacioHs garret i the lot ia 19 i-j feet front en
■VCH Fourth street, and iu I-j-feet deep, '
Apply to
CHRISTIAN jBETZ,
iJJi Mulberry.(lreet.
N B —As the property belongs to orphan chil
dren, it is expeited that good security will ba given
for the rent.
Philadelphia, december 11, 1798 Jlawjw
5* ALL PERSMST
TTAVmO demands ajrainft the Estate of
iW U Henry Sch4Ffer, deceased, lateofthe
City of Philadelphia- MaMUw-W^J-prtmeny
in
Pof | CASPAR u. jfj } WE f fi V P'yment 60, ,
. | FRED-BRICK GAUI' { a^ nl Jlnator£
1m j iitn to. 13 J
)ru_, I faaw^w
ch - Dancing SghoqJ.
ire ' - r
d "T X Tiu.l* prticiic* mi r«i
---i VV pe&ful compliments to the public : takes
j th» 1 i r-1 . n forming them, that at the request
In. i?■ man >' ot ftls . f " rmcr employers, he will open P
• his beuooL, at his Bah Room, in Fourth bet
... 1 wcen chefnut and Walnut streets.on the firft Mon- ®i
" day of December—For Young Ladies at ten r:
" c >o<* in the morning— and for Gentlemen, at bi
fix in the evenings of Mondays, Wednesdays and b<
Fridays. I a
r - ov - * 8 form ta
_ To be Sold, m
OR EXCHANGED* 'N
of For property in the City, or within Thirty Fl
Tl " miiet of it,
id Valuable Plantation,
to T N Tufcorora Valley, MifSin county, containing fit
* ab *. ut three hundred acres, the whole capable ly
li. Of cultivation. At prefcnt there is about jo acres tin
O. cleared, ao of which 16 a. rich bottom of Meadow i nc
cr ground, enriched by a never failing stream, that r G
;h haifall and water enough for all the purposes of
c . a Country Mill,. For further information apply at
t- No. 68, Market flreet.
i- novcml>cr 10 Uw
y —" =— 1
Genteel Boarding & Lodtirz. Lil
'' O fAR ft; and ready furnilhed apartments !
e U with genteel Boarding and Lodging for ihe ac-
Is commodation of lour Gentlemen (with their Ladies H
if required) may be had at N*. 163, Arch Street; '
Dc <- '4 Tdtt ca,
y Canal Lottery, No. 11. for
Will re-commence drawing in the ceitrfe of hhl
the present monthx of r
J"ICKETS to be had Eight Dollars each,at P re<
A WILLIAM BLACKBURN'S Lottery clai
aitd Brokers office, No. 64 South Second-flreet, rf P'
, where cheek books are kept for registering r.nd Mal
' tf, I ™." 11 ' 0 " of Tickets in the above, City of ,nd
. Washington and Patterfon Lotteiies, &c. Tre
1 Stati or th* Whiu, be p
, One prize of 10,000 dollars 10,000 ot ei
4,oo« l0(000 ({
i WO „ *«coo 4,000
T r ~oco *>ooo
»p , 500 s>co^
with y rr 100 , 5.400 A PP
With a full proportion of the one hundred
and'of'the fifty ddllar prizes—The Lottery is
raore than two thirds drawn and above 15,000 D(
dollars richer than at the commencement,
Note, the business of a Broker duly at
ttnded to in all its branches. tu fr 77"
nov. q- ' * -Ll
Notice.
ALL persons indebted to the Ef- HT
tate of Isaac TiLfAi*, Efq dccealcd, »re requelK
ed to make immediate payment, and those having a lanJ '
ny demands afjainft said Estate will p|r»f e to f u „ i( v and
their accounts duly attested for fcttlemcm to eount
road
Attorney in faS to. to.
JOHN M'KIM, jr. Ad'm'tr.
1 Dee ■ '3- sw6w
Horses to Winter. —-
TTORSF.S will betaken in to winter atPna
pJ ,""J M .;>« Stone, on the QAf
BriflnJ road ; they will he well fed with clover O m
and t,m s tty hay, wrII littered and cleaned, and is „ pe
will alfohave a large fielj to exercise thtmfelves TAP
mwfceq ihe weather is good—Enquire of Mr. Last £
Wkmrn IMI, merchant, Wa/et er on the ' Chaml
pre ms Ics,
■ » f , t
Charles Campbell,*
"raMe W AT C H-M A K K R.
TTAS remored to the 'hop formerly nccupieti
p cnt) . IT. by Mr. John Wood, No. <5. corner o:
c sale Frost ind Chefnut-ftreets; where he will rlnnk
tc24th fully receive and execute orders with
oon, and dispatch
nr. HAS CCNSTANTtV ON HAN3,
A Neat and Large Aflortment of
ecuted Clocks ess Watches.
WAN TED,
[hal. A JOURNEYMAN,
/ILX>, one or two Apprentices of refpeifla
hie partnts.
FOR HALE,
A quantity of Watch Glafles
Wbolefalc and Retail.
lE, nov 14 3a\vtf
ran be George Davis's
f t c h a ; LAW-BOOK STORE,
No. 319 High Street.
open- Latest Low/on Irish Editions.
afinefs EORGE DAVIS's Fall importation is now
place, VjT arranged of which a more capital collec
tion he believes was never offered for I'ale either
* :n this City, London Or Dublin. It combines
almoO every book in,with several valuable books
porat. out of print. Davis's confining himfelf to the
r the sale of Law-Bo«ks only, it will appear obvious
their ,0 profeffional Gentlemen, the advantages they
nuary have both in fde<flion and price by purthafing
r City from him.
: pur- His Catalogues being ready, gentlemen will
■s and particularly oblige him by calling for them —
iuing and to those refidiijg at a distance, by fovsring
him with thfir address (pofl.paid) they (hall be
•m. fcnt.
Jf nov 16 m&thsm
Bank of the United States.
which November 14, 1798.
,t NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVSN,
ted it, ' I "HAT application will be made at the Tre
nding A fury of the United States for. the renewal
pe— of a Certificate of Six perCent Funded Debt,
jerty, No. 15,548, for 18,782 dollars, 33 cents, dated
,to Rejifter's Office, January Bth, 179.8, ifTued in
the names of William Willink, Jan lYiUint,
et. Nicholas W Jacob fan Staphorjt & Hubbard,
Truflees for tun dry money-lenders in Amfter
* ■ dam; which wasforwarded the nth of Janua
ry, 1798, under cover to Nicholas Ohhes, esq.
>USE Jod , v t |j e capture a s t f, c ffcjp Columbus,
surt captain. Skinner,from New-York for Amsterdam
7, G- Simpfon, cajh'r.
it ea nav tt raw6w
To the Creditors
Of WiPm M'Clelland, of Northumberland
tet. Courty, in the State of Pennfyivania.
chil- TAKE NOTICE,
fiven ' | 'HAT I Ijave applied to the Judges ofthe Court
-L of Common Pleas, in and for the Comity of
W3 w Northumberland, for the benefit of the fcverallaws
ef t'ennfylvania, parted foi the relief of Insolvent •
, e Debtors; and the Judges of the said Court have-aJ*-
* f ,, pointed the Thirtieth !*"„ tmX - lt be
i °i 1311 for
WTV *nf- Northumberland, to heai me and
said wh,Vh P , , at , C COUU Houre in Sundry, at
» SSteSjST *
orj ' N , , Wm. Mc. CALLEY,
Northumberland, November 1, i->og
Patent Plough!
=ar- u tub, 'sTerry—Jonathan 1
kes "arken, Woodbury—and Jefle Evans, Lumber- (
left ton > Thcfe w bo have used th.em give them the
.en preference to any other kind, v they require r
et- Ids team, breiK the ground bstter. are kept in
,n- ®rde» at less expence and are fold at achoaper I
ten rate—the plan is much fimplified and consists of 1
at but one piece of call iron, with the handle, and f
nd feamof wood; they may befixed with wrought C
lays and coulters to be pi& on with screws and ii
taken off at pleasure
Patent rights for vending withiinftrutfions for !!
making them may be had by applying to John r
Newbold, or the fubfenber No, in North
Front-llreet.
Who has for Sale;
Or to Leaf? for a term of teats,
, A number of valuable tra<sU of Land, well '
,g situated far MHI,, Iron tVorks or Farms, moft
•le ;ly improved, lying chiefly in the county of Hun- ' cc
es tingdon flat, of Pennfyivania. Those who may th
w incline to v, ew them will please to apply to ut
»t Joha Canan near Huntingdon. j
at ; . , Clarjet NewtoldL. f'
|ul y sawU" : a °
„ . AM ACT,
Limiting the time within which claims aeainft
's !u e H-" nt r d Sl! ' tes, for crcdits the books of
B- "eTfMrury.may be presented for allowance lai
1 the Sfnate cind House of He- pri
preventatives of the United. State: of slmtri- f s
fhr Z "^ mb i ed ' Thlt »!' "edits on his
- the book, of the i reafury of the United Staaes,
for tranfaflions during :ke late war, which, V^ S
f co «rfeof the Treasury kave - y
hitherto been dtfeharged by issuing certificate. thfc
0 rC | g lj dC r t ' be forevet barred and an c
T °r allowance, «n!efs oth
, claimed by the proper creditors, or their legal mo
' M^rrh"- it T*' 00 ° r bef#re the firft dl y °f VOL
I March, in the year ,ne thousand seven hundred 1°
: and ninety-nine. And the Secretary of the 8 "
y r,quired to '«" fe tbkAfl to n 'B
of each state.' 0 m ° re ° f the P" blk l °/\
(Signed) JONATHAN DAYT©N J
Speaker of the Hen'e of Reprefentativ'es. the
THEODORE SEDGWICK, vou
. President of the Senate. Pro. Tem T
Approved July ~ z, 79 8. fu PI
JOHN ADAMS, on '
President of the United Stales.
December 13. w t ift V.ar.
— aboc
FOR SALE, in h
rifty Acres of Good Land, affi «
Lyimg IN Gloucister Coontv ' com
T State oj foeir.Jerfey, 1 ®
WENTY.FOUR acres of which a,.e DF ft
Waodland, the reft, Meadow. This
undlie* about half a mile from.Tiaber-Cre.k
and two mile, from the river Delaware the ——
eounty road passing through it, and the great
road only twom. es distant. For terms, apply T
to, PATRICK DOGHERTY, . L
Si e ".n f the Rainbow, in Shippen, in M
bet-iuecn Second and Third Jlreets. a Re
c 4 ftmh&faw Bant
NOTICE _ " "
S A m "« but 1
,j f * A - f" Genilemea and TraveUer. _ i,
Chl"J nng an addition of twelve Bed N ° 4
JSS6T.SAS * kich Lacc
■cvrmber 6 ,
thaw dc
%ij z <isasette*
i ;S; p HIZTD EL phi A ,
tank
UifcO TUESDAY EVENING, DECEMBER it.
{ Norwalk, June 7tb, 1798.
ADDRESS,
To the President of the. United States.
SIR,
WE, the Bishop, Clergy, and lay
>eisla- Delegates, of the Protestant Episcopal Church
of the State of Connetticttt in Convention
aifembled, embrace this opportunity,, of ex
rr' pre fling our affectionate attachment to the
LlleS laws a:l ,\ conflituted authorities, of the gov
ernment, under which we live. Affairs of
Its state, Sir, are never the fubje'ils of our d:f
cuflion ; yet, at this important crilis, w'e do
not coiiiider it improper, to certify the Chief
« Magistrate of the United States, that we en
tertain a grateful lenle of' the numerous blef
*• lings, both civil and religious, which we en
now joy. Whilst a desolating war rages among
allec- na *ions of Europe, and daily threatens
b'nes t<? ' nvo ' vel,s a " its calamities, wc; believe,
looks tbat unity, under the gracious protec
a t |, e tion of heaven, will prove our flrongelt Ihield
irious of defence. Impressed with the importance
they of this sentiment, we allure the rulers of our
ifing countiy, that we will use oar bed endeavors
to promote unity of opinion, refpett for the
W1 " laws, and reverence for all.that are in autho
™ r rity over vts. And to our best endeavors,
til be we at fur prayers to Almighty God, " be
" leeching him so to direst and dispose the
m " hearts of aH chriffian rulers, that they
" may truly and impartially adtninifter juf
g " tice, to the puniihment of *i«kednefs and
" vice, and to the maintenance of true jp
'r<a. u ligion and virtue."
ewal ABRAHAM CONNECTICUT.
»ebt, William Smith, fec'y of Convention,
ated ,
f. ANSWER,
' J To the Bishop, Clergy, and hay riflcgatf* I
Iter- PrMeJiant Episcopal Church of the Stale |
II ua- °f Cenne&icut.
efq. GENTLEMEN,
bus, I THANK you for tliis Address agreed J
Jam on in convention assembled and presented to |
me by Mr. Hillhoufe, one cf your Senators f
w in Congtefs.
Your affe£l!onate at'achment to the j
and and Constituted Authorities of the Govern f
ment wider which youli*e» is at once a de- [
monftration of candor, moderation and libe- I
ourc rality in youtfclves and in those laws and [
Y authorities. Although affairs of State, as J
' aW9 such, are never the fubje& of your Aifcuffion: 1
vent J ... 1 r r % -
. set it is impolhble tor you at such times to L
: be- discuss the fubjedt of your Church, without I
for discussing those of the State, opto explain I
'"t c * ut '? s an< * without | ;
lif inculcating those of Citizens. It is not in 1 (
your power to bestow a higher eulogium on |
the Government of your Country, than by [
thia explicit acknowledgment of the grate- |
ful sense you entertain of the numerous bleT- ( 1
of civil and religious li ejtv. wljiVK Jj
ua ver enjoy them, and freely as you hav# re-Tf
er- cet«ed may you freely give.
■he Your endeavor* to prom-te unity ofopi- j f
Tn T"' refpca for ,ht laws - and reverence for 1 1
)er all tn authority, are in charaSer ; and your I
„ f Prayer. to Almighty God, beseeching him I S
" d rn. -a- a " d dif P° r,: the h «»» of all fn
ht Chriltian Rulers, that they may truly and If,
nd impartially adroinifttr justice to the ptuiilh- I n
ment of Wickednefc and Vice, and to the U
in " laintenanee of true Religion and Virtue, 0
(h i sincerely hope and believe will avail much. Itl
t>j. ij, t. JOHN ADAMS. [tf
Philadelphia, July 6, 1798. Lj
AMERICANS! (fays theCentinel)Your I f °
country waa never more in than at
y the P; e fc«t moment ye are lupine and
.« ; unfufpea,ng. the most Ueacherous, vin- Fl
diftive and aftive enemy you have, is in
; force, and on the march your guards
are scattered ; and your feutinels afltep !
; The iniatiable Faftion, which has been
akrt for years in the Northern States, now Ar
f a(Tumes a bolder tone !—mocks your wife
e uws ; and defies your magistrates. Th«cul-|
-UA . D T V Untk ' r P UnUhmcr,t " f
i h' v u lies, ifliiing from lAt
, hls P nl ° n find circulated, and believ- I 1
' fl "i Jl i n!V " 0{ Ktntuck J the Whis- V
' ,1+ bl ?}■ 'l W °° ds of Pwtyhania f
'! i ,' 6c i l ' on Pclt Lads, of Mio-Jcne)! ■ '
other S T ed lnsimtTl of Virginia, and l fn "
other Southern Mates, are all cock-a-topfo- f" 1 '
moody insurrection, and confufion And t Ju ?
you, Americans, breathe the frelh air, and |
niffh a P rCT C 3S thou S h no danger was [and
nigh, and your country was in the entire en- "pie
joymentot the smooth season, and the calms pref
V l'f e ' I Obn
: t , n ; l - lMe ln ]nte erhy, and undifmayedin J
the discharge of his important duties as I 21
z:Z R >;r vr lh he yetrKeds the \~~
lupport of his countrymen ! Will ye throw I
;on htm the entire burdens of your conntry • I AND
and not ft retch forth a finger to ease them • I
boj leave the tranquil
■ abodes of Mount Vernon, and daw his sword P Ol
m his declining years, unsupported and un I Fren
a ?If ye fuffer it you may fpeedilv w°
commence th» date nf ti,i n ■ [ i "" atc
YO TTR ma T m;. 6, piofi; ration of fin C<
DeSce tin r L INDEPEN
•trs LL , and bid.adieu to, vourpolitical tativ(
existence, except as a>/ 0 f Francl, ~
PLAIN TRUTS. A
r orty Dollars J°f'
in Market last 6th Instant. h . as h
i n tvr " treet »betvveen 5 h & r th Btreets- ? anj
3- R.C(i Morocco Doclcrf Rrvr»lr * • ' !•
Bank Not,, for SS S""T? "j V"
Notes for nn. H J , eac "» an d foall I the™
alfoFunL ' td 3nd Ten " 3mcs
alk, iundry recetpts and Papew of no use tab!t
but the owner—the about reward will be
No a. P« ft 3C a " Morris, lWwers, " hav
County' l " C » gft
IK«nW,« ISAAC rA f™l N - r™,
* 3 ' f.m.&thjt cm
= ® oll «sSutiesr
Mr. Co"b S ™a?'jS'"J"'»■
i«. Marshal's answers to thfS? GeD " al
Richmond friend ; upon which he' L
8 the following remarks - "Ti,,
,8 ' with the answers thereto,
been published at Richmond ; e
'*»• I«. ft few them when T 9 ;
la y exchange their lively preen f i. to
»«* yellow : apt emblet
iition m an." J al, '"y of
f ex
> the Lyon, in bis letter to Mason frw.,l, r
SO> " a General Clatk, a brother-in-law of \°
ls and member of the Legfflaturc AL f
bit;!-
long f I hC Democrat 4,%> they have honest men
J of then- party. They have unqueftionabTy a
eve r r nOUS I amonS the most «t,v, and
3tec- ? ' whodon r pafsfor
hield r ' , f V£r ' rea % meaning
ance deCeWed and as to
the integrity and wisdom of our pref w ru .
vors '®S Wh ,° yCt rym ridt «<* to the
rthe Wr ° nghde ' the y arebou » d^tlm i k ma tu re lv
tho- Z ce ?T^ ircon^^>p^
,ors n coru P the f 'fallen in -
» to. (Lonfoence, if party ha, not feared it
with a red-hot iron, ought to whisper fome
thev tImCS "u ? 3r . S - Jf We S are
■;7 not r '£ ht > and it is at kaft poftble we are
A not ' v ' e are ver y wron S indeed. We are
a " the " of a! 1 men the mo « criminal, the most
v- peitilent; we are helping the French? we arc
hindering, as far as in us lies, the political
ialvation of our country, andconfidence will
• whisper more last -words. We may be wrong
now, as we have been heretofore. Almost
every thing wc desired formerly, we.no !on-
IZ '& era ss av °w. Uur ccnlujes of . overnnier*
have been so ctearly di (proved, that even Gv!
Latin, Frenchman as he is, gives up the point,
. , and J u ft' fie * the conduct he had so much hand
It„ m re . ndcrin S obnoxious. O Roxbury, who
tnr , ar j rlch , fro . in lnt lufhy, and growing richer,
and yet believed that our nation is opprefled
and like te> be en flared; thou abounded with
a 8 inhabitants of ienfe and merit, and yet boweft
thy head before leaders who are a laughing
° e * dock. Verity it would be better for Sodom
' an <' Gomorrah, than for thee, if the days of
. tribulation, that thy rash town-meeting was
as called to hasten, should actually come topafs.
on > Thou didst fay, when the General* who is
sto ; guiltless of fliedding human blcod, full of
out the terrors of war breathed into vourboLras
aln his ov/n heroic spirit; then when fwell'd with
°ut all iiis valor, you resolved, and resolving
•>n didfl lay, it is better to be smitten than to
on smite again with the fift of wickedness ; bet
by ter to sneak and fay our prayers to the
ite- French than to arm, better to lole our fhijs
lef- than to fire their guns agaiuft pirates, aid
ich_ better to turn quakers than become foldie;?.
re " free and thev go nearly^-
---* lafe> ; cfi
pi- fpicuous as its heroism did on the town
for meeting day.
»ur The event reminds us.of a tongue valiant
•m Stotch captain as militia, i„ i 74 7, „ho be
all ing sadly afraid to go into called hi*
nd soldier. to hear an harangue fk for the town
l»- meetuig and its orator, and he so effedual
"e ly painted the horrors of a battle, ard the
ie, certainty of their going instantly tp hell, if
h- they were killed, as he believed themoft of
them wony, that he found when he had fi
nilhed, every brave fellow had run off, leav.
ing the captain, the excuse li*«»vanted, to
Jr follow them. And thus the Democrats
it would leave ADAMS and WASHING
d liberty and Property, a prey to the
French.
~ * Heath,
n This Day Pitblijbed %
v . n( l f°r sale at the Office of the Editor, No.
■ e 119 Chefnut-ftreet,
(Price i-Stb of a Dollar,)
AN. Q RAT lON,
Pronounced July 4,1798,
1 At therequeft of the Inhabitants ot the Town of
BOSTON, in commemoration of the anni
versary ot American Independmre.
• ; By 'Jos lah QurNcr.
" The inroads upon our public liberty, fall"
| (for reparation—The wrongs we have Ciltai«ei.
call for—Jiutice. That Reparation and thjt
Justice, may yet be obtained, by Union, Spirit,
and Firmnas' But to difidt and canquer WJ»-
the maxim of the DeviL in the garden nf Eden,
;and to disunite aud enslave hath been tb* princi
ple of all bis- votaries from> that period to the
prefent."
Observations on the Bo si on Pi rt-Bill, He. p. 78:
by the late y. putney, }un.
august n
This 'Day is PuWifhed",
AND TOR SA L I B»J. FENNO, I 19, OH 6J* UT-Jl «I»*
AN ADDRESS
To the People of Maryland,
ON the origin, progrcfs and prcJent Hate ot
French with a (Tictch of the infamous
attempts to tfcgrauc the Government of the United
•Jtaces, and foine refle<slk>ns on the iate proceeding*
in Congress ; written the last of April in the
Tent year, by a Member of the Houfc of Reprefe*—
ativas. junell
A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
TOHN a. SHAEFrES, of Philadelphia, who ha*
J for a few years pall bc<m in the fouihem Stsfe»>
has had the effrontery to draw , ftveral Bills of Ex
change on Tinvotliy Pickering, Efq- Secretary o:
. State, and my(eff.and by lhat means has defraudfti»
a number of persons ef their money, deceiving
■ them hy an exliibkion of Iftrers and papert wkh the
j names affixed of divers public charaileis and r< T u *
tabic merchants highly recommendatory of laid
Shaeffer; to one of these papers i find my r.amc
lubfxribcd, but fdo twt know the man ; these ar£
villainous forgeries! To prevent fiwther imposition,
I have to request the printers of Ncwfpapers in the
United States topubliih this for the benefit of their
fellow-citizens.
Trcafvrtr ofil: VnitdSUk*
Trenfsm i JVrty >/7.7
O&oktr 54, 17.98. )i£i}t oasCtte,
VHiLADEL PHIA,
TUEoDAY EVENIN'G, DECEMBER i 3.
I'lio towering views of Gallic ambition
■whx'.i acquired a new stimulus to further
darirt;; from every added luccefs, have at
lep;tli be.n completely cruttied undt* the
weight of her r/.oft hated foe ; and from those
dreams of universal dominion with which
this nation cf philosophers were lo long a
mused, they wake to ignominy and flia'me.
Their national glory funk forever, and the
vital e fit nee of their power, 101 l in the ag
grandizement of a few servile ruffians.
France was a fair pifture, rich in the rnoft
beautiful and variegated landscape. The
hand of the cruel spoiler hath deformed the
whole, and nothing now is left but the out
* line. Like the variegated hues of a stag
nant pool, that fair and extensive profpeft
she prelents externally, Confifb within of
foul corruption, the very dregs yaf mifcrv,
and fjed? of death. Such are the effects of
revolutions.
The controversy about the Century lias
fh'fted its theatre to Norfolk in inia,
w' ere, as here, the absurd notion of prema
tura! v dating it, by cutting off twelve months
from its period, is f;:ecef-!'uHy exploded. A
friend of mine adduces an analogical argu
ment, which wruld have wsight, if it were
wanted. He is a h hifforical, philo
fophicai and pciitical disquisition on the e
vents ot the prefjnt Century, and being en
gaged at present on the French kou/everse
ment, his ardent an&iety to enregifter on its
annals, the deno' ement of that bloody dra
ma along with its commencement and pro
gress, naturallv encreafes as he advances with
his fubjeft, and is the advance of tlie aftors
towards this deiireable iff®, daily feives
ffronger and stronger hopes of its accomplilh
ment.
All a~es, and all forms of government, \
have abounded in conspiracies ; and if these
have sometimes produced beneficial results,
they have never been derived from the cal
culations of the. conspirators. But our own
has been remarkably fertil- in the production
of conspiracies of the word kind, Carried on
by the word agents, and. promoted by the
wcrft of means,—so that it may justly be
ca'led the Age of Insurrection ; unhappily,
it muff be added, they have of late experi
enced a too uniform fuCcefs. Whether our
our country is to be immolated on this san
guinary altar, depends wholly on our timelv
and vigorous exertion. An exhibition of
uncommon nerve Ckn alone preserve us from
uncommon evils; that conlpiracy, once ri
pened and matured, our ncive and our ener
gy will riret stronger our chains.
We have read of empires, afiailed and over
thrown by conspirators who sprang up like
OTufhrooms in the night ; fellows of yefter-
unknown, unthonght of.
us turn front what we read, to what we have
seen. We have ft'en the firft empire in the
world shattered to a mass of ruins, its forms
destroyed, its institutions reversed, its lan
guage overrun with barbarous and iargonic
terms, its manners debauched, its religion
destroyed, its consequence annihilated, and
its very name rendered-a loatbfome reproach;
have we not l'een these things—have we not
fee-n thei,i brought about by a set of men
contemptible in their origin, character, and
at firft in number, and do we, after all this,
imagine ourfclves unassailable to the United
Irifmnen ? Think vou, the vi&ims of St.
Bartholomew's Day imagined, an hour before
their fate, the terrible stroke which awaited
them.
While, in the emphatic language of the
Roman orator, many are found exclaiming
of each, of these naurdefers," td)nen i>ic vivit,"
o v her.s, funk in 'bestial llothfulntfs and inani
ty, cry, " What a suss- is making about the
United Irishmen !" Who are they, what arc
they, where are tlu-y ?" Aftonifhi ig non
sense ! amazing infatuation 1 Desperate, de
ftruftive, devoted ffupidity ! Because your
e i -my is secret, close and unfathomable ; be
c use his are dark, anddefv research,
d > you doubt their tendency and power to
harm you ? Believe me, these conspirators,
•while they are fecitt as'the grave, will be
f uind elaringas death, when their plot "ripen?
to explofioiu y
What is an United Irishman ? May not
T r ihmen unite as well as we ? Look to Ire
la ■.! tor his cuaracler, and behold it written
in blood! From the time of Earl Strong
biw, the Irif'i have borne a cha rafter, our
c -nceptions of which it is hard to find words
to do juftke to. From being almost the
" depotitanes of science, tlie mass has de
generated into the molt brutal ignorance,
whilst from that extremity of ctynofition in
their chat-after, whichrdiftinguilhes them in
a peculiar manner from all the reft of the
world, their Isle has contributed beyond her ,
proixution, in men of eminence, as soldiers
poets, orators, ftitefmcn and divin-s An'
'lriffi gentleman is one of the fineft charac
ter ,n nature. The reft 0 f the nation is
reprsfeuted by tlie bulk of those who come
to tins country—such rasa as Burke, LvoiC"
old Findley, Smiley and Duane,
the hare mention of whom is fufficient,
without th: trouble of elucidation.
Imagine >a whole nation of such men as ,
t. *' snd ft o r » re to yourse lves a con S rega- i
tion of every noxious, every vmomous pro- ,
ps ,
t Behold their deeds, and Ijehold deeds wor
xy authora. Wild, and untanieab'.e, '
th y wage iiicdTaii' war with one another, ]
aid Ireland has been a from the (
eaihcft nerind of hiftorv. B,t h,r bh.odv
>ands of United Irishman have exceeded in
the atrocitv of their maflacres even th- 1
horrors of the Druidical .rites,' and alsfoiuio ;
ly cut throats, like Shakefpearc's Ilct&ur !
tor diversion. Thus much for their charac- ;
1 at h \ I'ir hits driven
rf>frri thence AVj t'wy thcii of a differeut
cast here ? No ; ct;lum uon animum mutant.
By carnage and plunder they fabti.'led there :
in ma fiacre and ravage tliey can alone be
happy here.
" Nomcnque erit indclclile ve/lrum "
The various affiliated Societies of United
Irishmen in this country,form one intimate,
closely connected band—the whole lacing
only so many ramifications of the mother
society, the fuperi. tending guidance o c
which they are dire&ed, and with which
they keep up a conflar t correspondence as
well as with each other. Thus, it is evi
dent, the gang in America is altogether
subordinate to that of Ireland: Its views, it
appears, are equally so.
The scheme. in its rude outline, is to
bring on a revolutionary state in America,
which by disorganising all 'J>e plans of com
merce ai.d trade, might diminish the
of Great Britain forcrufhing the Infurri.
on in Ireland. Th y had never;helefs mark,
cd the ramifications of a revolutionary form,
which was to have been instituted in order
the bitter to prolong those dilcrderj which
it wa3 their firft objedl to exeiie. They
coalesced with the Jacobins (moil of the
leaders of whom have aciua.ly been admitted
within the pale of the fcciety ) so far as re
garded the stalking-horse, behind the fanfti
on of whofephilofophicai fame, all this mif
chief was'to be brewed. He is the focus
whence emanate all their deep laid designs.
He is now (though a salary man) absenting
himfeif from fhat poll which he tille an d de-1
files, to forward the plans cf his nyrmidons
by writing inflammatory refoluti: ns againlt
t'.e Alien and S dition Bills, and stirring up
the people to i furrc&io.. This tall, auk
ward figure (1 do pi>i mean the noted tory
and man of laurel) imag ties, that under
the fembla-ce cf poilsfopliical retirement,
he lufficicntly cloaks those daring machina
tions* which will never thelefs drag him one
day, a trembling criminal to the bar of jus
tice. Imitating a certain foolifh bird, he
tun, his head into Helvetius, and iiaagii es
himfelf concealed, because he does not fee
-ihat he is seen.
Having used this great man 'till the'r
purposes had been fufficiently advarced, he
would have been laid on the ftutlf, or per
haps decently interred. He would have '
way to men of greater daring
stronger nerve—better qualified to fail on !,
the ttmpeftuous sea of liberty." Rey. !
nolds would succeed to the Dire&orfhip— ; (
soT a Talleyrand, in body as well as mind, !,
we need not look bcyoml his melt ifflpn- ,
dent and meddlesome associate.
To further these ends, every member, on
initiation into the society, pays into the gen- {
eral fund I guinea, which contribution is
annually continued, and cncreafed by requi
sitions, as occasion calls.
A permanent committee ef correspon
dence has exilled for three ye; rs, with the
executive direftory of France, and another
with the revolter* Ireland. With both,
constant intercourfcs and communication is
~ TJo ITiear some one cry, " Nam? them J
Name them !" Lend me yourpatier.ee and
I will; Doubt not that they exifl—for
they are identified by unquestionable evi
dence—that of an United Injbma< ! Whoso
doubts the exigence of a direftorial body,
is a fool. Do you not fee that they poflefs
all the qualities of a body ? do they not fee ?
do they not read, do tHey not hear, do thay
not feel? or how is it that the f ars we have
excited have reprcfled their daring, and fdf- j
pended their appeal to the populace? " Con- 1
Jul •vidit." |
Let not the inhabitants of other towns i
suppose, that they a e free from th« ma-!
chinations of United Irishmen, because Phi
ladelphia is the centre of their operations.
In Baltimore there is a ban J called the
" Republican company," ccmpofed to a man
of United Irishmen ; these, with the whole
numerous body there, voted for the Muddy
headed General, that fworti enemy to France,
that foe to her schemes, that " oppofer of
her power." Their uniform is completely
1' each, and that their principles are so, will
be doubted by no man who knows ths real
charafter of their political leader.
In short, their poison runs in every artery
of our political budy,—it is diffufed over all
the minutelt fibres of our frame. Publicity
to their machin tions, is the attempted re
medy. Here I stand in need of a&ive co
opeiation. If other people do not choose
to adopt my homely and untutored style, let
them utter the fafts I bring to lii>ht in their
owndrefs, oi any other—at all even s give
them publicity. 1 hey should have adifTem
ination as wide as the extent of the evil. It
is answering but a partial purpose that I j
present tbem to the view of thirteen hundred, ,
people, when they should meet the eyes of j
thrice as many thousands.
The touching letter of Sir Fraycis D'lver- ,
i neis, so promptly republished by Mr. Brown, .
it will i>e oblerved, cannot find a place in
either of the three morning Jacobin prints.
As to old Jasper, and his partners the New
gate Man, Dr. Morpheus and the United C
Irishman Doftor, we do not look for any '
thing; to thera, but from the two True A- r
mericans, habit has led ns to fome- '
thing. I believe in my foul, it is habit only.
The whole three are alike True Americans; a
and you might as wellexpeft to fee this let- 1
ter Ihoue upon by the malign star of surgo 3
ut pros an, as expeft to find it uiider the pro- 'r
teftion of the two True Americans. No, *
no, they will never fhike hands over it -
they know their cue—they r.ev;r meddle in
party pnlitu'.'—they are true Americans.
3e!hrew me, but it is a pity the political
health should he corroded bv such cankered
fubftantes.
Mr. Ha'ktfk's pamphlet on the dispute
between the U.iit.d States and Fra:.;;e, has f
hefcn traiill.'te'f into the French and German r
languages, and an Edition of it publiflied in <,
f ajeony.
List of UNITED IRISH MEN.
0:i thu fubjeC*; it will be reni-inb-red, I
reqUedid communications. Thole I have re
ceived being far from complete, it is almod.
ufelels to rn '.lce a publication of them : In
■loeJ, why Ihould I publish a dozen of ntimts,
when the members amount by their own ef
timatioit, to FORTY THOUSAND effec
tive men ?
I fay, why should I insert in my paper, the
names of*
Samuel Wiley, Teacher in the College.
John Bh';k, Ditto.
Thomas M'Adam, Scboohnesf&r.
John O'ReiHey, Ditto
Moffatt, Zachary's Court.
Samuel Parks, Ditto, Tave/n Keeper.
Reynolds,
Robert Bxpbfton,
Duane, alias Jafp-r Dwight.
Matthew Lyon, of Vermont.
James Carey,
Matthew Ditto,
Andrew Magill,
James T. Callender,
D. Clarke, Shoe Seller, in Maiket-ftreet.
Lloyd, of Newgate.
J. D. Burke, late delegate from N.York.
Or what end can it answer, but that of in
ducing discoveries, or at lead attempts to ex
tend our present flock of information, re
fpe#ing the number of difafledted Irifli in
America ?
The Democratic'fociety of New-York, are
summoned, by one Davis, (probably not the
Bank of Pennsylvania-man) to meet at the
den of a fellow whom they call citizen Snow.
At this meeting " some ccommi:nicatior.s of
importance are to be made." It is a pitv
the arm of justice is too f.eble to communi
cate a halter to them.
An extra meeting of another body, called
" the General Society of Mechanics and
Tradesmen," on business of the utmost impor
tance, is alio to beheld, on the same night,
(WVdnefday) at the usual place.
" The time is out of joint : 0! cursed spite
So few are found who dare to set it right.
In the Supreme Court of Penrfylvania,
in the cafe of the fa id State againd William
j Cobbet, Printer of this city, application
j was made by the said defendant, that the
jurifdidlion of the suit might be, transferred
to the Circuit Court of tlje UmVd States.
] Saturday and vefterdav were employed by
| the counsel on each fide in arguments on
I this application. This morning the hon.
- Chief Jultice, delivered the decision of the
court, which was, that the prater of the pe
tmun XHuin-cr , , f J J '
?y/ea.
The feflion of Congress has opened witn
> the usual symptoms of discord. Nicholas
leads the van, and Gallatin conduGb the
main force of opposition. The Virginian
has boldly thrown the gauntlet of defiance,
and told us plainly bis hardy purpose, of
aiming a deadly blow at some recent laws
on which at this critical moment, the fafety
of the United States depends. The crafty
Genivan pursues lleadily the fame course,
H tVe^rfTfS^e^*^ Jucf X
twin brother of the apellate and hypocrite
Talleyrand Perigord.
The Senate have given the President their
unequivocal approbation, and promised their
zealous cooperation in the mod energetic
measures. They will be our sheet anchor
in the tctmendous storm that is ready to
burst upon us. |[V. Tori Pap.
j Married."] —On Saturday evening last,
j by the Rev. Dr. Rogers, Mr. Lvke Tuck
| niss to Miss Susan L'J.orn, both of this
j <%'•
Died, —At Bodon, Mrs Mary Perkins,
aged 86, mother of the late Governor
Uanceck.
A fire at Newport, R. I. has deflroyed
houses and properly to the value of several
thousand dollars. A drnoken man perished
in the flames.
At Norwich, in Conneflicut, a desper
ate suicide arsfe at midnight, and attempted
(in the language of the Norwich Editor)
to ciit his own throat with a knife. But not
effe&ing his design from some cause with
the above inflrument, left the house, with
the knife on the table dreaming with his
blood: fit 11 dabbing himfelf with the fame
in the body, from hence he hadened to the
we'l and plunged himfelf headlong—The
partner of his bed soon miffed her consort,
aro'e and discovered the fan£uifluous wea
pon, on which alarmed (he awakened the
family, who after a short search found him
in the pit which his own hands had digged,
from which he a wretched fpe&acle was in
a few moments drawn out dead. Who can
describe the horrors of the mind of a Man
who is led to the ptrpetration of so horrid
a deei! 1
From the fame.
We havenot a Thermometer in our Office
to tell with exaftnefs the extreme cold of
the weather, or to what degree the mercu
ry finks within the Tube—but from its ac
tion on our own bodies we venture to affirm,
for the season of the year we never felt the
atmofphcre more condensed or piercing.
T he roads ate already shod with a fine snow,
and our friends in the country have a good
chance, to tranfpo t their produce to mar
ket. ,
A capital fland for Business.
TO BE RENTI *
AND POSSESSION GIVEN,
On the 81b tiny of February.
THE commodious Four Story Brick House on
the Sontii fide of Market, near Wjfer
flreet, at prtfent occupied a Tavern, by Tho
mas Palmer. For terms, Enqni-e at the office
of thii Gazette.
dec 5 jawtf
CONGRESS. !
I In the House of Reprefentatfves of the
t United States, a mei'fege was received from
' the Senate, informing, that the Senate were
I about tn proceed to the trial of the impeach*
1 ment of William Blount ; when, having
I passed a resolution for the inllru&ion of the
| Commiitee of Managers, the House ad- j
! journed.
In Senate, having formed into a courtfi r
■ the trial of William Blount, leave was gram
• ed to Messrs. Ingerfoll and Dallas, counsel ,
, for the defendant, to appear and plead for
| him.
At 12 o'clock, the managers of the im
peachinenton the part of tht; House of Repre
lintatives appea-ed and took their fats in
the Senate. The honoiablc Mr. Lawrence
then the Lrticles of impeachment, i
the proc«fs served, and the returns thereof, '
Mr. Harper, in behalf of the committee of
managers, requcded that a dillant day
might be assigned for the commencement
of the trial, in order to give the committee
an opportunity of obtaining the opinion of
the house of representatives on (he circum
dance of the defendant being tried by coun
sel. Whereupon Monday at 12 o'clock
was affgned.
STATE LEGISLATURE.
T"ie following Resolution was adopted in
the House of Representatives of this date.
.Kefolved, That a Committee be appoint
ed to draft and report to this House, a ref
p-'ttful address to the President of the Unit
ed States, approving the measures he has
. pursued, in support of the honor, dignity and
I independence of this country,
j The Yets and Nays being CalLd for by
I Mr. Boileau and Mr. Hall, were as sol- •
• lows, viz.
YEAS.
Med. Evans, Speaker. Allwight,
Blair, Brown,
Brooke, Buckley,
Bull, Campbell,
Conrad, Erwin,
Fisher, Forder,
Hall, Hemphill,
Hannum, Hopkjns,
Hodetter, Hendricks,
Kennedy, Keppele,
Kirk, Kelly,
Kraufe, M'Pherfoti,
Miller, Power,
Palmer, Predon,
Raum, Ruch,
Seckel, Stocker,
Stover, J. Scott,
S trickier, Speer,
Taylor, Turner,
Van Home, Wharton,
~ Wright.
Williamfon. 45. |
NAYS.
MefT. Boileau, Coolbauge,
Eyre, Fraley,
Fulmer, Gehr,
Horn, Hartzell,
Harris, Ingels,
Linnard, Lyle,
Mewhorte-r, M'Dowell, ,
Fenrofe, Rose,
~ slioemakci, Snyder,
Udree, Worrell,
Weaver.—2l.
So it was determined in the affirmative.
Ordered, That Mr. Fisher, Mr. Hemp,
kill, Mr. Kell •, Mr. Kennedy and Mr.
Wells be a committee for the purposes ex
pressed in the said resolution.
ANSWER,
Of the House of Representatives,
To the Governor's Speech.
SIR,
THE didrefs, which the Citizens of
Philadelphia and its suburbs havecxperienced
during the prevalence of the late contagious
fever, has excited general lympathy.
To alleviate the injuries already fudained,
and to prevent (as far as human agency is ca
pable) the return of a malady so fatal to the
lives of our fellow-citizens, and so injurious
to the reputation of our climate and prospe
rity of the Stat?, are fubjedls which merit,
and will receive, an early consideration.
Being aware that a procradination of the
Wyoming controversy increates the difficul
ties to be overcome, and that the intered of
the State, requires, its settlement, ourutmod
exertions will be used to bring it to a fatis
fadlory conclusion.
In all our deliberations upon the other im
portant matters contained in your address, we
shall carefully keep in view " the public good"
as paramount to every other confideration—
and shall cheerfully concur in the adoption of
any measures which may promote an union
among our citizens, by guarding our country
againd the dedru&ive effe&s of foreign in
fluence.
The afpedl which the date of our national
affairs has a (Turned, in relation to the French
Republic, has certainly excited universal at
tention, and may, incidentally, affeft the
course of our deliberations.
Finding that the honorable overtures which
were made by the Federal Government, to
redore harmony with France, were treated
with the mod fludied insult and contempt,
and that our mefTengers of peace (fully em
powered, as well to receive explanations and
reparations for the wilful violation of our
rights, and the plunder of our property, as
to grant compensation, if injury had been ;
inadvertently done) were not even admitted
toanaudience,becaufetheywouldnot consent '
to surrender our National Independence, we
f-el inexpreflible fatisfa&ion with the conduit, ,
of the General Government in repelling the 1
arrogance of that power, and, with a fleady 1
firmnef's, maintaining the honor and rights 1
of our country ; and it is with peculiar plea- '
sure we behold the unanimity of the people, |
and their fixed resolution to support, at all |
hazards, their rights and independence.— i
As this will probably be the lad opportuni- 1
ty we shall have, permit us, previously to '
yotlr leaving the high office you now hold, to |
expref's our approbation of the care you have
manifeded for the public welfare; and to wish
you health and happiness in ycur retirement.
&WtU Marine %i\U
Ship Mary Ann, Brigs Planter, Anii
ble Matalda, Willy, AnjjulUiSj atd fchoore;'
Industry, lay at tie Fort yeilefdav mem
'nf"
| The /nip Nevr-Jrrfty, Capt. Clay, ( irt-
I ward bound) is on /here at Bombayhjok.
-The fhrp America, Capr. Surer, and the
brig' Hannah, Norris, were atjMarcus Hook
)elerday morning.
Brig Suckey, Vredejburg, is alhore on
Marcus Hook Bar.
Brig Libeny, Edwards, left Marcus
Hook yeflerday.
Seveial outward bound veflels left Reedy
lilard on Saturday morning.
ANY French Ladies and Gentle
men wanting passage for France, can obtain it ill
a Veffcl at New-York, by applymj to MefTra.
Oahn & Mumford is that City.
Dec. 18.
Ces DameJ ou Meflieurs France it, qui veulent
paffcr en France, peuvent eire accomodec,fur u>l
batirrent partant de N. York, en f addteffant cbez
M. M.Gahn and Muroford, dan cettcville.
j Dlc. 18. jt
Insurance Company of the state of Pennsyl
vania.
THE STOCKHOLDERS are hereby notified
that an election for thirteen Cire&ors to serve ftt
one year, will be held at the Company's Office
011 Monday the fourteenth da/ of January nest at
Eleven O'clock.
JAMES S COX, Prefi.icnt.
! dec. 17. dt!4.J
Ephraim Clark,
CLOCK & WATCH MAKER,
' Corner of Front and Market flrcecs,Philadelphia,
HAS JUST RECEIVED,
BY the different .arrivals, a large supply of Clock
and Watch makers and Silver Smiths Tools',
files and materials,
CONSISTINC OF
Rowling Mills, large and fniail fl-nch and Hand
Vices, l'urnbenches Plyern, Sliding Tonge, Bra
ces and Bitti, Grooving tosis, Saws, Scratch brafli
e?, Blow pipes, Screw and ljraw plates,large and
small Hammers, Clock dials, cad brass Bells, for
ged w®rk and pinions. Emery, Pu
mice stone, Borax, Spelter Sorder, Brah, Steel and
■ Iron wire, fheec Brafi, n.ai«i springs and glatles
gold, gilt, and llcel chains, seals and keys, &c. &c.
Cj" Clocks and Watches carefully repaired
»ov. it endrf
Intercepted Letters from France
to Dr. Priestley.
JUS 7 PUBLISHED,
AND TO DF. SOLD BY
JAMES HUMPHRY K
N0.59, South Th»re-Stkeet,
Vj by Perfor.s in Paris, to Dr. PriCiHrittcw
America.—Taken on board a Neutral VefTel," aifi
exhibited as evidence against her, in the High
Court of Admiralty of Great Britain.
(Ej- An Apprentice Wanted, by said
Humphreys.
dec 11 wfa&tu3t
FOR SALE,
A Tan-Yard, with about thirty two acres of
Land, at Rock-Rim, on the Head of the
Titjc water of Sufquehannah, in Harford county,
Maryland, wlereon is funk feventy-five Vats, a
Sto'.e Mill and Tan House, with conveniences «f
Water and other neeeffaries for on extensive Yard,
a Dwelling-House, Kitchen and divers other ufeful
buildings is ereflcd th»reon, some of the land, in
lots well imprpved, a good Herring Hihsry on the
<hore. The improving Town of Havre »!e Grace,
is about fix miles dillant and vessels coming dewa
the River, pass close by the premises. A conve
nient situation to get Bark, a (lock of which with
the utensils for Tanning, and all the hides : .n the
Vats maybe had with the Yard. For teranapply
to J»hn Wili'on, near Harford Town, or the Sub
fcribcr on the premises.
ISAAC WILSON,
12th mo. 14th aaw?w
FOR SALE,
By George Plumsted,
No. 166, South Front Stksit.
2so whole Tierces ?ut r< c
100 half do. S KI 6E
-35 Boxes white Havanna Strgars, entitled to
drawback
»,000 pieces Nankeens, do. do.
Anchors weighing i?cwt. and i6ewt.
160 boxes containing tea setts of China
3J boxes of blue and white table setts of do
ALSO,
Boxes containing breakfaft, coffee and even
ing tups and saucers ; teapots, cream pots, su
gar dishes, pint bowls, cuflard dips, ffet and;
soup plates and dilhes.
Young Hyson Tea
Fans
ntV . *3 3(awiw
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
JffN* »7 1798.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, That by vir
tue of an aft, passed during the present ses
sion ®f Congress, so much of the a<ft entituled
" An Ait making further provision forthe sup
" port of public credit, and for the redemption
" of the public debt"—passed the third day of
March, one thousand seven hundred and ninetv
ftvc, as bars from fettlemant or allowance
Certificates, commonly called Loan Office and*
final fet'lement Certificate'!, and Indents of In
ferefls, is suspended until the twelfth day oi
June, which will be in the year one thousand seven
hundred aud ninety ninj.'
That on die liquidation and fcttlement of the
said Certificates, and Indents of Interest, at the
Treasury, the Creditors will be entitled to receive
Certificates of funded Three Per Cent. Stock equal
to the amount of the said Indents, and the arrear
ages ofintereft due on their said Certificates, prior
to the firfl day of January one thousand I'even
hundred and ninety one.
That tho principal fumsof the said Loan Office
and final (ettlcment Certificates with the interest
thereon, figce thefirft day ol January, one thou,
sand seven hundred and ninety one, will be dis
charged after liquidation at the Troafurv by the
paymant of interest and rcimburf.ment of princi
pal, equal to the sums which would have been
payable thereon, if the said Certificates had been
purfuant to the A<fts making provilion
for the debts of the United States, contra&cd dur
ing the late war, and by the payment of other
sums, equal to the market value of the remainin.
Stock, whiah would have been created by fueh
fubfenpttons asaforefaid, which market valu,- will
be determined by the Comptroller of thcTreaf,,,,,
OLIVER WOLCOTT
jtineaStasatBWWIS mil I ■II—'IIIHM lIHIIIIII II w ,
Bank of North Ameriea.
THE Stockholders are hereby notifird, thaf an
Ekdlion for twelve DireSors, for <he q
year, will be I eld at the Bask on Monday, the
14th of January next, at ren o'clock.
RICHARD WELLS, Cafli'r.
TVc. 8, T7OB. dtEl
" TTib. SUBSCRIBERS,
Of the City Dancing Assembly
ARE informed, that the First Assembly will be
held anThurfday the 10th inft. at CElle*sHot*l.
Thomas IV. Franc'u James Gib/on
Thomas Ketland Jonathan Williams
Mathevj Pearee Stephen Kingston
William Macpherfon Samuel Murgatroyd
December 11 dtzoD
N CPT I c E.
ALL Persons indebted t° 'be Estate of Wil
liam Beauchamp, lately ilecealed, ar« de- r
fired to make immediate psyment and those who
have any elaiips against said Estate to pvoduce
thoir accounts properly attested to
Saml. Price, executor.
uov to dim
BEEF,
OF THE FIRST QUALITY,
And fit for India voyages.—For Sale By
WILLIAM SHEAFF,
No. 168, High Street.
r nov. n dtf
t'Olf BALE,
By the Subfcrlber,
Belfaft Canvass, No. i, to 7,
On moderate terms for Ca(h or a (hort credit.
James Lyle,
South Seventh flreet. near Che/'nut.
nov 14 j
FOR SALE,
To be EXCHANGED for property within thirty
mi'-es of thccity,ortcxlet on ground-rent forever
Several valuable building Lots,
In Philadelphia,
Enquire of William M. Biddle. ne. 147, Chefnut
ftreet.
nov 12 $
Lancaster County Butter,
IN KEGS,—FOR SALE,
Enquire at No. 92, Market-street,
near Third-Street.
_d?c r $
LAREWCTSECKELr
No. 155, Market-Street.
First quality London Particular ) w/fNFH
Madeira, Port, Sherry and Lisbon J
Cogniac Brandy, ift to 4th proof.
Spirits.
By the Pipe, Hhd, Quarter-calk or Gallo*.
dec 3 mw&f»w
BALLAST.
A QUANTITY to bedifpofed of, •< applied for
I L 1 ".mediately, on board the Ship Louisa, lying
Mr. HUMPHREY'S Ship Yard,
novenberio.
ir or^^jx^stnisCßißEßs^
to decline their ptefent Bufi«efs,
_ - :.l*-T)ttcr for sale, at reduced prices, a handsome
afTortment ol IroEmongery, Catlery, &c. in lots
t» suit the purchasers.
John Green £s* Co.
No. 16, Nerth Second ftr«*t.
Kj" Ironmongers
Will find the abeve Goods not unworty their
atfrr'ion.
8QV.13 f
FOR S.ILE,
By the Subscribers
200 Bolts Russia Duck,
jo pipes London paiticular bill MadciraWine
1 pair nine pound Cannon
A few Baits Madras Handkerchiefs
400o'.hs Fine Flota Indigo
33 Barrels Beef.
Willings is" Francis:
Penn-flreet, 1
November j8 ) J
Prime Sugars,
Will be landed from the Enterprize, captain
Langdnn, lying at Morris' wharf,
Forty one hogsheads of
Jamaica Sugars, of the firft qual
ity (entitled to drawback)
For sale by
Wharton £s" Lewis,
no. Ixs, south Front ftr.
dec. 13. diw
LL I'ERSOIJs having any legal demands a
gainst the estate of William Pc, kir.s, dece 'fed,
late of the city of Philadelphia, Tavern keeper, are
rfcqutfted to furnifh their accounts properly au
thenticated, and all persons indebted to said estate
arc r.'q jelled to make payment to the fubferiber in
Philaaelphia.
LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH Adminr.
Oiftobcr 31ft, 1798.
" GOOD WAGES
WILL be given to a servant Man, who
can bring a good recommendation, and will
apply at No. 131 Walnut-street.
dec. it. dtf
Wants a Place,
A WOMAN with a good Bread of Milk,
Enquire at No. 58 South Front street,
Dec. 10.
The time of an ASive
BLACK BOY,
WHO is about fixtten years old, and has five
years to serve, to be disposed of. He is
svell acquainted with the business of a farm, and
handy at eooking or waiting in the heufc. En
quire at the office of thij Gazette.
Nov. x 6 eoiw
Tendollarsreward:
DESERTED last night, a second time, from
the Marine Camp, David Luper, a fifer.—
He had when he went away, a plain blue jacket and
veft,light blue overalls, a round hat, which hpdbeen
bound with yellow, and which he had ripped off
in his fitfVdefcrtioii, and a pair of new (hoes, he is
a Carpenter by trade, has grey eyes, far.dy ban
fallow complexion and a nitch in his upper
His back is fttll fore from a Hogging he got a few
days ago He may bo difeovcred by his fifeing,
as he plays extremely well.
W. W. BURROWS Major Com. of the
OSober 17. Marine Corps.
NOTICE,
\ LL I'eifons having claims upon the Estate
I X of Jair.ej Thorhurn, Stonecutter, deceas
ed, are dclVmt to present them for payment —
and those indebted to pay their rcfpeiAive bal
lances to
Benjamin IV. Morris, adm'tniflrator.
nov 14 3*wjw
11.
< THE CAIGO,
Ok ike Ship JSD'A, XI
Captain,Aium bad, from BATAVIA,
Const lin % I f
} A V A C U F F E F.,
Of the Fjift Quality—to be Sold, by
MORDECaI LEWIS.
_ d«j_ L
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
14. four pound Cannon, ("iffcrent lengths,
e Carronades. „ „
JOHN NIXON & CO.
December 1. $
TO BE SOLD, "
A quantity of choice 1i mo thy & Clovei
HAY.
Enquire of the Printer.
decemher 7
For sale by the Subscribers, bi
1 The Cargo of the Schooner
Sincerity, from LAGUIRA,
150 feroons of cotton
40 do. of indigo _
511 fanegas of cocoa
»oj6 hides
4 bundle of gum
6 o t ig , ) COFFEE
f 38 barrels J
I bale of Deer flcins
Willings &f Frantis.
decemher 10, 1798 dtf
Now Landing,
From on board the /hip John Bulkeley.tnd
for sale at the stores of Jefie & Robtrt I
Wain, |
350,0 c o weight of Java Coffee,
of the fitft quality in bags.
150,000 weight of Java Sugar,
y in cannifters.
r nov. »3 dtf
Imported,
In the Ships Aftive and Liberty,
from Hamburgh.
Ticklenburghs,
Oznabrigs,
White Platillas
> Brown Silefias
Bretagnes
Hessian Rolls
Brown Russia Sheetings
German Lindfeys,
'■ Bed Ticks, &c.
For Sale by
GEORGE PENNOCK.
no. 103 Market-street.
nov ao J
SHOEMAKER fcf BLRKLTT,
" HAVF. REMOVED THEIR
' g INSURANCE OFFICE
Their rcom at the CofFee-houfe will continue to '
s, be attended froci 1 a till 2, o'clock in the day, and 1
e from 6to 8 o'clock iD the evening.
:s
JACOB SHOEMAKER, 1
Has also removed his Counting house to the J
' fame place, where he has for sale a few pipes choice t
London Paaticular Madeira Wine; Freneh and
r Spanilh Brandy i Claret in calks and esfrs, of fu- ,
perior quality, and a few Packages Glass aHd
Queen's-w:re ; alfo,a quantity et Carolina Soal- !
leather, which will be fold very low to close the (
Tales.
Philadelphia, i» mo. 11,1798. § t
THE PARTNERSHIP Of -
e Alexr. J. Miller, Co.
BEING dilTolved on the firft inftaßt, by the
death of James Davis, all persons indebted
to the fame art requested to fettle with the sub
scriber, and those to whom they are indebted are
requested lo call on him for payment.
ALEXR. J. MILLER,
No. 64, South Front Jlreet. '
Who has on hand, 1
n TO Bi DISPOSF.D or ON LOW TERMS,
By the Package or Piece.
Fine plain and tamboured Muslins
Guzzennas
Baftas ,
Coffaes i
Rabobgungies j
India Cillicoei
r . Book Muslins
Coloured ditto ;
~ Real & Mock. Madras & pullicat hkfs. ;
j Brown Silcßas ,
■e Tickings, &c. Wc. ,
te JUST ARRIVED,
in
AN ASSORTMENT OP
Irish Linens & Russia Sheetings. ;
nov 28 4
A Young Man, .
"\TTHO writes a good hand, understands 1
" VV accounts and can be well recommended, i
want* a Situation as Clerk or Assistant in a
Wholesale Store, or Conuting-houfe. Appli- <
cation to be made it this Office.
nov 14 $
£ ' To the Creditors of the Subscribers.
£ » pLEASE TO TAKE NOTICE, that we havcap.
_ A plied to the judges of the Court of Common
Plfcas, for the benefit of an aft of assembly, pafftd the
founh day of April last; and they have appointed
THURSDAY the 87th inft. to hear us and our Cre
re ditors, in the dty of Philadelphia, at such place
where the Court may be '.held, ana wnere you may
attend if you please.
, PATRICK C AVANAUGH,
JAMES DOUGHERTY,
PETER G. ROSE,
JOHN GREENE,
I.EWIS D GRAFF, . (
■a JAMES M'CALLEY 1
RICHARD STOKES
d dec. 8. 3'aw gw
S- l a s r,
is TN one of the streets between Union and Saf
fr A fafras, on the sth instant, the outside Case
>» of an EngUlh Gold Watch, chafed on the bask
k with a Ihield. Any person who may find the
», fame, and will bring it to this office, will receive
Four Dollars reward, and the thanks of the
■t owner.
dec. 7. 1
All Persons
f Indebted to the Estate of HE NR Y HILL. deceafeJ 1
are requeued to make payment to the fabferiber ; ■
~ and those hiving any demands on the fame to pro
I- duce their accounts for ftttlement.
GIDEON H. WELLS,
no, 139, Market flreet
Thiliiclphia, dec. 4, 1798 cots ,
1 i.
r /"
1 FRESH FRUITS. I
This day. will be landed at Hamilton's
wharf, from on board the biig Eliza,
captain Vatighan,
MALAGA FRUITS,
Of the best quality, conlifting of
?un Raifius in kegs,
Mufcatfl and Bloome do. in boxes,
Figgs in kegs and boxes, 2
60ft (helled Almonds in sacks,
Jordan do. in boxes,
Lemons in chests, J
Anchovies in kegs, t
Pruens in boxes,
A few jars Grapes, &c. &c. (
Also on hand,
Holland Geneva in pipes,
Sherry Wine in quarter calks,,
French and Spanilh Brandy in p'pes and :
butts.
Bed Glive Oil in boxes of 12 bottles. 1
For Sale by PETER KUHN,
No. 179, N. Market Street.
December 6. lot
John Miller, junr.
Has returned to the- City,
AND IS REMOVING FROM NO. 8, CHESNWT,
To the Five Story Building, in Dock
near Third-Jlreet.
Where he has for Sale
' 250 Bales of Bengal Goodsj
CONSISTING Of
Coflaes
i Baftas
t 1 Marnoodies
| Humhums
, j Calicoes
•»l Handkerchiefs, &c. oc.
The remains of a Stock of
DRT GOODS,
Confijling of Woolens only,
Cloths
Coatings
Blaukets
Kendal Cottons
Hats, &c.
ALSO,
100 Hhds. of Old Rum,
Of i fine flavor, 3d W 4th proof.
T\r>v 10
Forty Dollars Reward.
DESERTED,
From a Detachment of Men under my com
mand, at Camp Wejl Schuylkill, viz.
Odlober 59.
GEORGE KELLER, 40 yean of age* j
feet 6 inches in height, dirk hair Aid
complexion, born in Holland, no Trade, ipeaks
broken English and very talkative, has a difliple
in his chin.
, November 6. John Murphy, 27 years of
age, 5 feet 7 \ inches
_ Jiair and
Jacob Ideri, years of age, j feet 6 inches
J"gh, grey eyes, sandy hair, frefh complexion,
to born in New-England, state of Conneilicut, a
id repeated duferter, by trade a Blackfrnlth.
November 7. William Collins, 30 yeai s sf
a S c ». 5 6 inches higli* sandy hair, frefh com
?xr X '? n ' e y ea > orn ,n Ireland, county of'
e.xford, by trade a Gardner, bas worked for
e lorae time about Philadelphia, he is very fond
c ® to hear himfelf Smg.
L a^ove deserters are very much addii\-
id CC * l ° .^ uor » take other people's pro
le t'nair regimental Olothing. Whosoever appre
hends said deserters, shall receive forty dollars
reward, or ten dollars for each, with all reifon
able expercea, by applying to meas above,
EDWARD MILLER, captain
id regiment of Infantry commanding.
Ie nov 10 $
t WOQDBURT ACADEMY.
re ■ '
THE Trustees of the Woodbury Academy,
in tbec unty of Gloucester, New-Jersey,
hive the fatisfailion to inform the numerous
patrons of that uiftitution, that they have en
gaged the Reverend Thomas PiUon, to be the
principal, and to take ths charge
of the above seminary of learning, and that the
fcheol will be opened on Monday the tenth inft.
Among the exercises taught here, will be the
Engli/h, Latin and Greek languages, gramati
cally.—Reading, Writing and Arithmetic in all
its branches; Stenography, Geometry, Geogra
phy and the use of the Globes, Navigation, Sur
veying, iSfc.
This infttfution was formerly under the care
and direfliou of the Reverend Andrew Hunter,
and the fame attention to the education and mo
rats of the youth, which under him so highly
distinguished it, will be pursued with unremit
ting endeavors, by the present principal and du
ly attended to by the trgftees.
The town of Woodbury 11 situated on an high
and elevated spot : It is airy, pleasant, and re
• markabjy healthy, and is but nine siiles diftaju
from the City of Philadelphia.
Parents, guardians and others, who are dis
posed to fend their youth to this place, will find
ds exceeding good, decent and comfortable board
d, ing and lodging, upon reasonable terms,
a Further applicatiun may be made to the prin
li- oipal, or
John Sparks
Thomas Hendry
r . Franklin Davenport
P* Joshua L. Howell 'JTruftces.
John Blackwood
ed J'hn Lawrence
e- Thomas Hejlon J
« ELISHA CLARK,
Secretary of the Board.
Woedbury, Dec 3 diot
All persons
Indebted to thsEAate of Mr. John Finno,late
of Philadelphia, deceated.are desired to make pay
ment, and those having any demands, to present
them for fettl«nrent, to
SAMUEL BLODGET, Adm'r.
or
JOHN WARD FENNO, Agent
to the administration.
£ 3°
be NOTICE,
ire ALL persons indebted to the Estate of Sam
be UEI - Wallis, esq. of Murcey townfliip,
in the county of Lycoming, lately deceafed,are
hereby required to come forward immediately
and pay their refpeflivedebts.—And all persons
having legal dem-j against the Eflate, are
i requelled to produce their accounts, properly
authenticated, for settlement.
j' JOHN WALLIS, -)
WILLIAM ELLIS, f Adminiftra-
DANIEL SMITH, C tors.
:t JOHN ADLUM, J
, december 13 3taw 4 w
I J, 1 p O iiT'E i) r
1 In the last arrivals from Bremen, £
Hamburg and Amsterdam,
AND FOR SALE,
A T RIASONABLE rR.'CSSANOON A LIBIRAL
CRIDIT, SV
Wl/jrr a- KINT7 TNG, _
No.9_T, forth Water ftrcet. 1
215 bales & boxes licklenburghs,
hempen linens and oznabrigs from 1/5 to £
i/"per ell
70 do. bleached and brown heflians A
40 do. brown rolls suitable for cos- g
fee bags w
20 do. Itrong do. do. for cotton do.
30 chests platillas I a do. fealing-\va*
3 do. dowlas j packets oil-cloth
, to do. crcas ala Morlabt 4 do. (ail twine (l
d IX do. eftopaillss I do. watches
15 do. Bielefield liiwn 14 P'P" P° rt vrlne „
go do. patterbornes 9 2 cases ciarct i(
45 do Brittanias 13° do fine IcE B corked „
I do. Holland canvass claret .. M
'• 1 do. Ruflia do. 1600 buPiils fine la.t
3 do. Ruflia Meetings 40 caflctoi roll brimftoue
I do. ravens duck ico calks of naval stores.
1 do. Ruflia drillens 50 logs prime mahogany n
1 do. brown liolland 4 hhds. coffee mills c
2 do. Silesia rouans 6 bundles German iteel 0
1 dt.Wahrendrop linen 10 chests of slates and
1 do. Caraudoles pencils
X do. Flemilh linens A package of ikates
I do. cauibricks and A do. woolen caps, &c.
lawns 4 <*efts of Nurenberg
I do diaper toys
II do. flripes 40 ke-s of yellow ochre j
18 do. clsceks 3 hhds. Glue s
1 do. fiamois S barreliofLcntil.es
I do. Arabia stripe £ chetts of prime red
I do. bunting for colors crust Holland cheefti
I packa. Madras hand- 30 kegs of pearl barley
kerchiefs 60 boxes of tapers
I do. Turkey yarn 4CO fides of upper and
6 bales empty bags foal leather
1 chelt hair ribband ;oo boxes window glass
3 boxes tapes, afTorted Demijohns
4 de. bobbin, assorted JO boxes gl&fs tumblers _
X box threads & tapes assorted
I do. fine blue liftados a hhds. pumice stone j
5 chests men's flippers I box of mill laws
3 do. bed ticks I calk ol cutlery
4 calls hog's hrifMes A quantity of floue jugs (
6 chella writing psjxr kinl pKWlingymg
4 de. quills A few (kips anchors, &c. (
november I 2 ui&f-tf j
~~ FOR SALE."
Rice, in whole and half Tierces.
Sherry, andl W[NES- ,
jjj m Tenerine J
Carolina and Georgia Indigo.
AND A PARCEL OF
s Shipping Furs and Skins.
hd Apply to
ik, N. fc? J. Frazier,
pie No. 95, So. Front Street
november 13 jtawjw
-^ f 1 M P OR TE D,
or
From Hamburgh, Bremen, and London,
ties /ND FOX SALE BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
5n > An alfortment of German Linens,
1 a 7
CONSISTING OF
Ticfclenburgs
Ofnaburgs
Wcfer linen
r Checks and liripes
Bielefeld linen
ntl Brown filefias
Silesia lawns
Siamois, &cs stc.
ro- p ~ a—/11
Ivj S Boxes ol nollow glass ware
re . It calks of Ruflia briftUs
irs Wt ON HAND,
>n- i Box of Irish Linens.
I Trunk silk goods
X Box ©f Gingham, '
And a complete ajfortmcnt of
English Buttons.
Erich tsf Lewis Boilman,
lv No. 100, Spruce ftre»r.
; y' november 19 eoiot
Z NEW NOVELS, PLATS,
he MAGAZINES, fifr.
ge . .
be .
t . Chalk's Circulating Library.
;he No. 75, North Ttnrd-Jlrcet.
all HTHE Proprietor, in cempliauee with his pro
~a- -I- mifefi to render this Inflitution a complete
ur- source of rational amusement and inftruiiion, by
repeated acquisitions of entertaining and intereft
ire ing publications, has now added to his former
er, colle£ion Four Hundred Volumes of mifctlla
-10 neous works, comprising nearly all the latejl
ily publijl ed Novels and Dramatic productions ;
lit- catalouges of which are ready lor delivery to
lu- fubferibers.
N. B. Subscribers, and others, who still re
gh tain Books taken from the Library previous to
re- the fiflknefs, are requelted to return them imme
ifU diately : the fine» will be charged from the 14th
of November,
lif- -
" d d English h American Playing Cards,
Sold IVholefalt and Retail.
in- £5" Wholesale dealers fupphed with Boston !
Cards at the fame prices as at the manufaflory.
Fine flavored Imperial, Young Ilyfou, llyfou,
Hyson Skin, and Souchong. TEAS.
deC- '3- t/>mßw
ei. * ——
Valuable Property for Sale.
FOR SALE,
THAT well known Estate, called
SHREWSBURR FARM, lormerly the tefidence
5 of General Johs Cadwalidar, fituat* on Saflafras
■ River, in Kent county, Maryland—containing a
bout 1900 acres of pricue LAND, upwards of 500
ate of which are in weods. The Buildings are all ex
ay- cellent, and consist of a handsome Dwelling House,
ent two large Barns with Cow houfet, Stables for fifty
horses, a fpesioustreadimg floor under cover, a gra
nary, two Jverfeer's hotifes, two ranges" of two fie
ry buildings for Negroes (one of them new and of
at brick), Corn houses a Smoak house, &c. See The
whole Estate being nearly furrounjed by water, it
requires but'ittlefjnc'uiK.aHd has a good Shad and
~~ Heiring fi&ery. It is conveniently situated for
both the Philadelphia and Baltimore market), with
r' two landings on a navigable river but a foort fail
■P> from Baltimore. There is a large Hcach, and two
large Apple Orchards cn the premiss; also, a varie
ty ty of excellent fruits of diffcreHt kinds. The foil is
Jns mostly a rich loan —The whole will be fold togc
are thercrdivided intofmaller farms(forwhichthe buil
rly dings are conveniently situated) as may suit tbe pyr
hafer. The Stock on said Farm, I O'.'iiuliy nf Hor
cfes, Cattle, Sheep &c. will alio be disposed of—
I- For further parrtmlarsapply to George Hastinos
on tbe premises.or to the fubferiber, inPtiladelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, Jo.N.
December it. ra . t j-.
all persons,
HAVING claim's a<;atrft the EsTATC of
SUiANI* AH LOCKn-R, dkeafcd, are
requeued t> present their refpeftive accounts to
NAT HAN A. SMITH,-)
I / S »s
JOHN DORSET, J teuton.
nov i) .UW6w
DISTRIJi OF PENNSYLVANIA,TO Wl~
BE IT REMEMBERED,
\ 1 THAT on the twelfth day
V Jof August. in the twenty-third year of
the Independence et the United States o£
5 America, Benjamin Smith Barton, ef thefaiddif
tridl; hath deposited in this office the title of a
book the right whereof he claims as author in the
words followiHg to wit :
" New Views of the Origin of the Tribes and
" Nations of America—By 3<tnjamin Smith Bar
" ton, M. Dj.Correfpondent Member of the Socie*
" ty of the Antiquaries of Scotland, Member ef
" the American Philosophical Society, Fellow of
« the American Academy of Arts and Sciences of
" Boston, Oorrefpomi'dg Member of the Mafla
j " ohufetts Biftorical Society, and Profeffor of
" Materia Msdica, Natural History and Botany
« in the Univerity of Pennsylvania."
e In coi.lormity to the aft of the Congrefi of the
s. United States, intitled "An ail for the encourage
v m«nt of learning by securing the cr.pies of maps,
charts,and books, to the authors aad proprietor,
e l of i'uch copies during the times ther.in mentioiwd.'.
d SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk, Dift. of Penn'
November a, I7<;8.
Java Coffee,
350 Bags of First Quality,
:e Now ianding from on board the ihip INDIA,
at Mr. Thcs. Penrofe's Wharf, and for sale by
, d John As/mead,
f« No. 165, South Front-Street.
■y WHO HAS ON HAND,
, For Sale, on reasonable terms,
ColTaes
fs Baftas
Black Taffaties, &c.
rs dec ic eodtf
Just Imported,
Iron cannon, double fortified, Woolwich proof,
with their carriages complete— 3, 4, 6 and 9
pounders.
° Car muades.'Wnnl with. carriages, See.
cs complete— 11, 18 and 14 pounders.
Cannon powder in kegs of 25 lbs. each
.Round, double-headed,and cannifter {hot
Patent Oicathing copper, bright, affortcd 18,10,
aa, 24, i 6 and 28 or per square foot, sheets 48
S. by 14 inclus, fuitaLle for vsflcls from too td
1000 tons
Copper nails, bolts and spikes
Boarding Pikes,
Common cutlaffcs
Gunners {lores of all kind*
Tin-plates No I —l-3 cross bo::es
Patent {hot in calks of jewt. each
London porter and Hrown ftaut, in calks of 7 doz.
bottled.
Earthen ware ia c.ates, aflbrted
For Sale by
SIMON WALKER,
Pine near sth street.
11 ' Oflobef 29. eo tf.
Injur ance Company of North America.
S 5
THE STOCK HOLDERS,
are hereby informed, that a stated meeting
of the Company will be held at their Office
on the Bth of January next, (being the se
cond Tuesday in the Month) for the elec
tion of twenty-five l)ireftors for the ensu
ing year.
* T* - X T JI-CT A _
"Dec. 12th.
An Apprentice Wanted.
A TOUTII,
Of Repijtable Connexions, & fufficient qualifications,
is wanted as an Apprentice to the Buftneis of a No
tary Public and Conveyancer.—Enquire ot the Prin
ter.
Dec. f m.2w.
" FOR SALE,,
_ No. 7, South Fourth-Stree -x
c- 1000 pieces Nankeens,
' A Box of Silks
30 Boxes powdered Sugar Cindy of l3J\y».
A parcel very fine Cassia.
C. HAIGHT.
dec s
-o- For Sale,
b te A ivell improved Plantation,
Of one hundred and twenty acres,
ier \ 7"ERY beautiftilly situated in the county ps
] a _ V Montgomery, about twenty miles from the
f n city.—Th# buildings are all new and finifhed so
' as to accommodate a genteel family only. For
(o further information, enquire at the Pennsylvania
Coat-of-Artns, nineteen miles from town, and
thiee above Morris-town.
e " dcccmber 15 fe,&w.tf
to -
•e- Philadelphia, November 16, 179^*
■th ALL persons defirousof furnifhing by contricl
11 rations ef provisions, straw and fuel, for all
the troops, which now ars, or nereaftcr may be
s at any or every Ration, poll, encampment, re
cruiting jerdtzvous or tlfewbere in the state of
Pennsylvania, frr and daring the y#ar 1799> el *
DN cept at I J refqu'lfie, La Borufl]. Fort Franklin and
v. Pittfburg—will be pleafcd to l'-nd in their propo
ne sal? under staled cavers, on or before the aoth of
next month, December, to
|W TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor.
THE RATION TO CONSIST OF
I 1-4 pound of beef or 3 4 of a pound ol pork
18 ounces of bread or flour
I gjllof rum, brandy or whiflcey.
a quartwpf fait
ice 4 quarts of vmegar ( For every 100 rations .
4 pounds oi loap (
ras I i-ilb.candies. J
a " As Congrefsmay at tiicir next felHon make al
-00 terations in the quantity of lornt of the compo
"s" nent parts of this ratior—it is requeued <xf those
, e ' who nsay offer proposals to name the price of eack
lt y part, which will fervcto govern in cafe of dimi-
f a " nucion or mcreale.
Q ~ c Nov. a 6 tn,w&tk. tioD
ot '
he "
.« Mrs. bpurrier,
nd
or MIDWIFE,
ith From ths citvof London lying-in Hospital.
fail TTMBRACEb this opportunity of returning her
wo -1 -j lincere thanks to those ladies whom ftie ha*
ie- had the honor to attend, and most rcfpe«3fu!ly in
-lis forms them and her other friends that she has rc
-5- moved to sou h Sixth street two doors frow Chcl
xli- nut street, opposite Cengreft Hall, where Ihe llat-
ters herfelf by careful attent'on to the duties ot
or- her proltfliou to me/it their future favors.
nov 18 i[w&fa.lW *
MAYOR'S OFFICE
REMOVED to 157 South Second-street.
{aw