AMD Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Dumber 1817. J
*»* Tht price of this Gazette is eight
Dollars a year.—Subfcribcrs who reftde at
a dijlance frtm the place of publication, and
■whose papers are sent per pojl, pay fix
month's fubfeription in advance, and one
dollar annually for enclosing and directing
their papers. The payments to be always
ft* months in advance.
For Hamburgh,
tms ship
Four Friends,
Joseph Glen, matter.
THE grcateft part of her cargo already engag
ed. For Freight, apply to
JeJfe & Robert Wiln.
jnly 7 eotf
For Hamburgh, diredt,
fHS SHIP
r n a n c r,
Melzar Joy, matter.
SHE is sn exceller:t, staunch
" • g oo d veffef, about 530 tone, in
pleat order ; has two thirds of her c: rgo rea«ly to
go on -board, and will fail in the course of ten
days. For terms, apply to
Joseph Anthony & Co.
July 7 oiot
FOR LIVERPOOL,
THE SHIP
L I B E R 7 r,
CAPTAIN BRAY.
A regular trader, and having
tht greater part of her car<jo en
gaged -will fail oh or abc-ut the loth of next
tn nth. For terms apply at No. 74, North Front
flrcet, or to
Rvfs £fT Simfon y
juue 25 §
For London,«
the barque
A D R I A N A.
SHE is now ready to take in, and will
fad in a (hart time, having part of
her cargo engaged.—For freight or paffage(h'aving
excellent accommodation?) apply r« the fubferib
crs, or en board the v»ff l at Clifford*- wharf
Knox, Henderfon, & Co.
No. 46, North front Jlfcct.
Who have for Saie %
A Handsome Affortmentof the moll
Fashionable Goods,
Imported in the Adriana, captain Lee, from
London, lately arrived, under convoy.
j'me 7; ,
JbUK I,UAIL.UJSi 9
CO PP er bottomed s HI p
Captain Lockyer.
A considerable part hf her
cargo is already engaged ; —to
fail with all convenient speed For terms ap
-ptyra Ross ,
No. 121, South Front-Jlred.
June i? f
LANDING,
At Walnut Street Wharf, from on board the
brig Amiable Matilda, William Brown,
M*fter, from Bourdeaux,
Claret in hoglheads and in cases of
SUPERIOR QUALITY,
Brandy in Pipes,
FOR SALI.
Thomas id John Kctland.
0r e »
ith two pair four pound CAN
NON, and one pair l»lb. Criß
—l—A WMW>»RON ADES.
may 29 §
United States Salt Works.
THE original Shareholders, and such gentlemen
as are inclined to promote the eftablifhmcnt
of Salt works, in Delaware Bay, ne:ir the Capes,
for the supply of tbi> city with Salt, upon the
plan projjofed by the fubfenber, are relpeiftfully
requeued to meet at the City Tavern, on Wednef- I
day evening n it, at 7 o'clock.
Bocks, containing the description and plan of
tl e proposed cttabli/hmen-, may be had at Mr.
Young's, corner of Second and Chefnut streets,
*nd at Mr. Shaw's,
jAJV-tES FENNELL.
j»-y 7 3t
tsank of fenni'ylvania,
July 3, *9B.
AT a meeting of t' e DireQors this dav,a dividend
of sixteen dolla'son each share for the last fix months
ending ihe3oth ult.waj ccclared ; which will be paid
to the Stockholders 01 their legil reprefentativej after
the i3'.h instant.
JONATHAN SMITH, .Ca/iier.
i"'y3 dti 3
Pennfylvanta Hospital,
6tb month it), '9B
- a meeting of tha Contributors, held the
23d inOant, in order to obtain a desifion
-on the propriety of completing a Dome to the
rew building heretofore agreed upon ; it was
-thought the number of members met, were not
enough to reverse the former conclusion—it was
therefore resolved, that the Managers fliould call
another meeting for that purpose.
Agreeably to this Rtfolve —
The Contributors are again reqaefted :o
meet at the Pennsylvania Hospital, on the ninth
•day of the iext month, being the 2d day of
the week, at four o'cleck in the afternoon, to
re-cobfider and decide upon the propriety of com
pleting the said Dome.
By order of the Managers,
Samuel Coates, clerk.
i"""9 jtrojy
Prison Manufactory.
FOR SALE,
At the Prison of the City JndCountj of Phihdel.
phis,
Cut N'ails of all Hies, from 3dy to ioiy
riooring Bnd», Spri eg «, fiddle and card Ta-Us
Oakum acd chipped
Shoemakers and Sadlirs Thread
Alio—bawed Marble, suitable for currier's table,
toni'i and, hean ft.ires, he.ir:h,, chimney nice- s,
platforms, Dabs, facia, window heaJ«, ijil~, &c.
•V'l which may f e had on rcafonable terms'
SI| o« mads and A'cwo. done at said i'rifin at
y» mod«a<e price.
Ord.rs fro*a a Jinked to Darml Tho
ma«, a*enc for tht pr,fun, wifl be attendi-d to
Dtccoiber «. mth4i)
By John Fenno, N° 119 Cbefnut Street.
PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY EVENING, jULT g, 1798.
United
Pennsylvania Dijlrid. )
IN Pmhiance to a Writ to me diredled from
the honorable Richard Petern, efq Judge i f
the Diftridl Court of the United St ites, in and
for the Pennfylvanta diflrill, will fee exposed to
public sale at the in the city of
Philadelphia on Wednesday the ilthdayof Ju
ly next at 12 o'clock at noon.
2 Puncheons of Rum
I Calk of ditto, nd
1 Small cafe containing
Artificial Flowers.
The fame having been libelled against, profe
cwted and condemned as forfeited in the laid
Court.
William Nicholsj marjhal.
Marjhals Office
24th June, 1798 j July 3 —its
20 pipes old Bourdeaux Brandy
70 do. white w pe Vinegar, and
A few calks low priced Cider Vinegar
For Sals by
Benjamin 11*. Morris.
j»'r » •
Cotton
Cocoa •
Anatto Dye, or
Rocoa
Just arrived, per the schooner Three Sifters, Will
iam Shallcrof-, mailer, from Cayenne,
AND FOR SAL" AT
No. 22 Little vVater-flreet, by
JEHU HOLLINGSWCUTH fcf Co.
June 20 '
James C. & Sam/. W. Fijher,
No. «3 Arch->treet,
Have Jor Sale
200 Calks bed refined Salt. Petre
Best London Window Glass from 10 by 8 to
T2 by 10
Ditto Glals Ware in Casks afTorted confining
of pint and half-pint Tumblers, Wine
Glafl'es, Goblets, &c.
A L SO,
A few Bales of Red, White and Yellow Flan
nels, Baizes and Kendall Cottons,
june 27 3awtf
John Haines y Wm. Jones,
BV.G leave toinform their friends and the puMic,
that they have commenced a Co-partnership
in th* SADDLING BUSINESS, which will in
future be sarried od under the firm of
HAINES is- JONES,
In Market Ureet, No. 32 one door above the
corner of Fjur:h,—where they presume (at lpafl
tn hope) that their attention to, and knowledge in
bufinefj, th.ir determination to serve «n the heft
terms, and their known attachment as Native A
mericans to the Government and Constitution of
their Country, wiH entitle them to the encourage
ment of a generous public. Although they can
not boast of h.'.viug acquired their experience in
any part of Europe, yet they take the liberty of
pledging themselves, that their manufadure shall
be inferior t none in this city,
june 26. tuthstf
IMPORTED
In the ship Lady Liliemckield.capt. Arcaans, from
Hamburgh,
Brown Silefias
Plati lies Royales
White r icklenburghs
Dowlafles
Stripe?, Checks ami Rolls
For Sale by the Su : fcriher,
George Pentioek.
j"'rs- 2'dWtf
Bank of the United States,
July -d, 1798.
THE Direflors have this day ilec'nrei! a divi
dend of sixteen dollar, on rach (hare of
Siosk, for the last fix months Which will be
paid to th* Stockholders, or their Representa
tives, after the iath inflant..
G■ SIMPSON., Cnjbitr.
ju'v 1 endftt
~NUIV LANDING,
From on board the (hip i-our i'rids, nod for £de
ar the Srnre-. , f
JESSE & ROBERT WALN,
A cargo of Havatina Molaflfes.
June 13
FOR SALE,
For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut (Ireet Wharf,
195 casks of nai!j» assorted
20 bales ©f fail canvass, from No. 1 to 8
53 casks yellow ochre
15 tierces bottled -porter, 6to 14 doz each
London particular > ..
India market \ Maceira W.nes
Teneriffedo. in hogfheadsand pipes
Old Port do in hhds.
Empty Claret bottles
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Muflinet* &c.
aflorted for the Weft-India market
4, 10, and 9 inch cablesand 10 coils of cordage
Writing fiates, ink stands and presses
20 purcheons Jamaica rum
I bale seaming twine
160 bundles iheatMng paper
Nicklin Griffith.
April 7 tuth&f.tf
Bafkenridge—for sale
IT con fids of 920 acres, almost all of which is
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the late
Eijrl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which are bounded on the
East by the river Pafaiek.
Th-re are ou it a number of buildings, forming
afquare of nearly three acres—The dwelling house
is a vary convenient one and.afmallexpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard coufifls of 1500 finsbearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other parts of said
tratfl near 300 other Apple Trees—as aifo a great
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries ol the
best and most delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
Forest Trees, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its situation is abeut 38 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and 12 from Springfield— It
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in cafti, on delivery of the deeds, rleafe to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chcfnut treet.
February 2. #odtf
All Persons haying demands
against, or are indebted to; the ellate of Jacob
SuisLEa, of Paflynnk Township, deceased, are
hereby notified to call 011 the fu' fcriker, for a set
dement ol the fame, on or before *.te 27th July
next. GEORGE HOFFNER, j
june 17 'liffjW '
Office for Stamps,
! No. 52 Second flrezt, t e corner of Chefnut Ureet.
A LL,(r>rtsot Blank Stamp , fold by Will* vm
i Young, at rhe price mpreffed thereon. Also
printed forms of Bo >ds, Bills of Lading. «Scc and
Copperplate Bills of Exchange and Promissory Notes
Scz a: theufual iatc, and the addition of the (tamp
thereunto belonging*
W. Young has conftantiy on hand a large aflcrt.
mcnt of o-hei t printed Blanks, and all kinds of Pa
per, and Stationary, wholesale ana retail,
july 6 cod3*v
FOR SALE,
The Cargo of the Schr. Sincerity
Benjamin Mouteeth Master, from Laguira,
CON JUT INC OF
94 T Farregss of Cocoa
4COO lb. of Flora India
210 Bates of Cotton
1 Packages of Goat Skins
By W'xllings iff Francis.
No 21 Penn itreet.
July 2: dtf
FOR SALE,
BV THE SWBSCR B»RS, NO 21 PENN-STRFET,
18 Bags Fresh Cloves.
Willing* & Francis.
June 29. dtf
Isaac Harvey, jun.
HAS FOR SALE,
At No. 9, South \Vateß'STreet,
A QUA NTIT V OF
Prime Aux-Cayes Molafles
Carolina Kice
Cod Filh, in hhds. and
A parcel of men's and womens Combs, aflorted.
ALSO,
A few tons of .Nicaraqua Wood.
June 27 §3w
joHN Millkk, JUN.
NO. 8, CH F.SNUT STREET,
Has received, per th Richmond from Calcutta
A Quantity of Sugar.
Weft India Mule ova do quality, which h« offers for
sale very low for calh or at 60 days.
he has also on hand,
A variety of British Dry Goods,
which he will dispose of on the moll reasonable
terms.
India Calicoes by the Bale, Sc. &c.
June 5 dtf
bourdeaux Brandy,
Claret in hhds.
White wine in half hhds.
Claret ">
Frontinac ( , ir . . ~ .
Sauwrne ( W in es m Cafe,.
Lundi j
Red Skins
A L S <5,
76,000 lbs. Jacquemel Coffee.
60,000 Bourbon do.
114 Boxes of white Havanna Sugar —an£
50 blogfceads of Tobaaco
FOR SALE BY
JOHN SAVAGE.
a dtf
Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries,
of the newest and most approved patterns, entitled
to the drawback, just received,
AN* FOR SALE BY
Alex. J. Miller Stf Co.
No. 64, South Front lireet.
may 18.
LAND! NG,
At Walnut Street wharf, from the Brig
Sally, James Yardflcy, master, from
Port au Prince,
40 } Prime Sugar.
FOR S.SLE BY
Thomas £s* John Kelland.
WHO HAVE ALSO ON HAND,
Ironmongery and Cutlery in packages
Guns aflorted in cases
Qut-tfA ware in crates
Civet in hhdv and cases
Pdrt wine of a superior quality in pipes, hhd«;
and quarter calks
New-York and Boflon Beef, &c.
June 16
1 iefh I eas.
Jufl Imported, in the ship Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For S<tle h by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At hi 3 Compting House, So, £4, Chefnut-ftreet,
AND BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Cowpting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong, Hyson, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, aad Imperial TIiAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, aflarted; black and coloured Lute
flrir.gs and Sartins, Naukeens, Cassia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
whale-bone flicks.
Tbey have also For Sale,
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchiefs,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes,
march 8. §
NOW L JNDING,
From on board the brig Amiable Matilda, frcm
Bourdeaux, and for sale by the fubferiber,
gg casks CLARET
72 do. do of a superior quality
a trunks green PARASOLS.
Thomas Murgatroydy
No; 11, Walnut-street.
JTIIO HAS ON HAND,
VS'hiteWine in half Calks
Sweet Oil of a superior quality, in
boxes 3nd baflcets
Lunelle i Entitled to
Sauterne / Drawback.
Iriih Market WINES in Cases
Mac arty an<i 1
Medoc J
Rota Wine in hhd«.
Pimento in bags.
may 29 eodtf
Silk and Cotton Hosiery,
ASSORTED IN TRUNKS.
LADIES and Gentlemen's iilk and cotton Hose,
received by the Adriana, from London, and
will be fold very low, for eafh or good notes, at
27, North ThirdJlreet.
June 2C. eodwfmiw
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Friday, June 15.
Debate on the bill supplementary to and to
amend the entitled an a6l authorising the
Prelident of the Unitei States lo raise a pro
vilional army.
( Concluded from our lafl.)
Mr. S. Smith observed, that gentlemen
in iupport of this motion said, that the volun
teers ought to be favoured, because they
clothe and equip thpmfelves at their own ex
pence ; and do not, asked Mr S. the militia
the fame ? But is it a fact that the volunteers
arm themselves ? No ; the house has agreed
to lend'them arms, ' and after the power to
lend has been given, he apprehended few
would be bought. What would the great
body of the militia fay, provided the pnefent
motion were to pass ? T hey would (ay, "we
ate obliged to answer any call which may be
made upon us ; but tliefe volunteers whom
you have taken from our body, an 4 to whom
you have given arms, remain at home."—
Would not this offend the great body of mili
tia ? It certainly would. Besides, would
any military man take command of a body of
troops, who, when they came to a certair\
line might lay down their arms, and refufe
with impunity to march any farther ? They
certainly would not, as such a circitmflance
might occasion the most feriousconfequences ;
for it would be recollected, that during the
war, men who were engaged for tix months
only went off on the very day their time ex
pired, and on which an aClion took place,
which eccafioned a defeat of the American
Army.
But the lommittr-e were told by the gentle
man from Delaware (Mr. Ba yard) that ex
cept this motion was agreed to, we fliould
have no volunteers, or at least very few. If
so, we had better have none. It thefeyoung
men wilh only to fight by their own fire-fides,
they had better remain with the militia, and
go into the ranks with older men. It would
not be worth while to form a separate corps
of them. Indeed, if he had a son that would
enter into such a corps, he should be ashamed
of and he would disinherit him, and he
was persuaded that the young men of Ame
rica would not thank gentlemen for placing
them in such a situation as was propoled. If
they wished to place them in a ridiculous point
of view, or to procure for them the name of
the Silk Stocking Company, or any other term
of deriflon, they could not take a more effec
tual course to obtain it. He hoped, there
fore, thispropofition would not be agreed to.
Mr. BRooks did not view the clause under
consideration in so exceptionable a point of
view as his friend from Maryland, or he
would not vote for it. He knew that a pro
vision similar to this made a part of the former
bill. How it came to be (truck out, he could
not tell ; but he believed it was done without
debate.
Gentlemen spoke of the favourable situation
in which these volunteers will be placed, if
this ptoviflon is agreed to ; but they do not
weigh the matter on hotlx fides. They forget
that the mi\itia cannot be called into service
for a longer term than three months at a time,
and it was never known that militia were cal
led very far from home. The idea of march
ing these volunteers from one part of the i
United States to the other, was rather ima- J
ginary than real. In the course of last war, j
the militia was scarcely evercalled beyond the j
bounds of an adjoining slate ; but he had no
doubt if the service of their country should 1
stand in need of; these voung men, they would ;
not fuffer their ardour to be overcome by an \
ideal line. He believed these young men
would prove better troops than any other, and j
perhaps prevent the netellity of railing any
other.
The gentleman from Maryland has said,
that if he-had a son who would enter into a
corps under such a refiriction as this, he would
dilown him. Other gentlemen would b£
equally concerned with him, if the;r sons
weie to take advantage of such a clause in
time ofdanger. But he did not think it vv ould
be right to terrify young men from the service
by holding up more l'evere duty for them
than it would be likely they would ever,t>«
called to perform. He hoped, therefore, the
amendment would be; i,'ced to.
Mr. Mi l;ledg£ ia* , if this provision was
agreed to, the State of Georgia could only
expect Stfliftanc-e from the volunteers of one
State ; and the exposed situation of that State
is well known. The United States ought cer
tainly to be protected in.eveiy part ; and m
the lafl war it was usual for the flower of the
American people to fly to the mod extreme
parts of the Union whenever danger appeared.
Mr- Otis did not believe that any provi- I
fion could be thought of which could be
more effectual in discouraging these volun
tary aiTociations than a provision oi'this kind.
His friend from Delaware spoke of these young
men as if they were to be singled out for dil
tant service in preference to any other tropps,
and he was afraid such a fuggeflion and a mo
tion like the present, might have an undue ef
fect out of doors —For though he believed
there are a great number of young men ready
to come forward, he believed the adoption of
this motion would prevent them f om doing;
so. We rose, therefore, to remind the commit
tee that the volunteers have no reason to be
lieve they will ever be called upon to go up
on any distant service, except in such cases as
would induce them to it whether they were
volunteers, or not.
As to the idea of these Volunteers fuper
ceding the necefiity of regular troops, he had
no such opinion. He believed that neither
Volunteers nor Militia would be a fufficient
defence without regular troops; and as there
had been no instance in the lafl war in which
the Militia had been sent to any great diffance
from home, he thought it could not be rea
fonablv expedled that these Young Men
would be very soon sent from their own
homes. But if this provision was agreed to,
he was afraid other arguments would be made
ufeof, rather to discourage than favour these
efiablifhments. Inflead of evincing any extra
ordinary degree of spirit and bravery, it would
be said their object was to*ftay at home—they
would be called The Silk Stocking Corfis ; the
Invalids i @c.
But it was said, except this clause was a
greed to, no Volunteers would enter the ser
vice. He had not been out of the city; but
he had the pleasure to fee every morning,
from 5 to4oo youngmen exercsfingthemfelves
in military difcipUne. He also law troops of;
['Volume XIV.
horse going through their evolutions. He be
lieved a timilar spirit exilted al/'o in N. York,
ind other large towns, and he trusted, there
fore, that the opinion of his friend from Dela
ware would prove to have been unfounded.
The question w;s put and negatived, ther«
being only 19 votes in favour of it.
Mr. Dayton moved lo amend the bill by
adding the word " legions", which was
greed to.
The committee then rose, and the House
havingagreed te the amendmsnts reported;
Mr. Sewall renewed his motion of art
additional fettion, authorizing the President
of the United States immediately to aopoint
fucb officers as he (hall think neceflary for the
better railing of the provisional army, when
ever he (hall think it neceflary.
1 he motion was taken by yeas and nays,
ar.d carried 42 to 39. (The yeas and nays
w ere given in our paper of June 16.)
Mr. S. Smith thenrenewed his motion for
flriking out Certain words, in order to confine
the loan cf arms to pieces of artillery alone.
His opinion was that (mail arms ought not
to be lent to the Volunteers. He thought
them much better able to purchase arms than
the Militia ; and if it was determined to lend
them, the probability would be that none
would be bought.
Mr. Brooks observed, the Volunteers
could not purchase arms until they are to be
fold ; and he believed government had arms
which they could iend, but which they had
no authority to fell.
Mi. Otis laid, if the gentleman from N.
York could dumorillrate the fait, that govern
ment has guns to lend and not to (ell, it would
have some weight upon his vote ; or if arms
could be bought, he Ihould certainly be in fa
vour of the motion of the gentleman froln
Maryland, as he did not think these volurt
teers ought 10 be excused from burdens laid
upon the Militia.
Mr. Brooks had no doubt of the faft.
Mr. Sitgreaves observed that a princi
ple had been alTumed by gentlemen on all
(ides, which he thought it important to be ex -
posed, and which ought to be abandoned.—•
Gentlemen seem to think there would be no
propriety in extending to these corps exemp
tions which are not alio given to the Militia.
It isfaid, they are on no better footing than
| the Militia, and that they ought, therefore,
I tobuy theirown arms. He believed the irue
policy of this country lay on the other fide.
vVhilft we are endeavouring to organize the
i yquth and aftive citizens of the country, lit
! order to be ready to render service to their
country at the firft call, without regard to
place, or limitation of service ; when making
this invitation, Congrefsoughtcertainly to en
courage it by all the motives which can be
given; and if Congrefscan, by lending these
Young Men arms, induce them to turn out,
they ought to do it'; or, if there be any other
way of attaining the end, it ought to be taken.
Gentlemen (peak on this occasion, as if
there were no probability of having any Vo
lunteers, other than Young Men of property,
such as are generally seen aflociating in Phila
delphia and New York. He hoped the fame
enthusiasm which had fired the young men of
the cities, would also reach the young men in
the country, and that we (hould, in confe
queuce, have volunteers in agricultural, as
well as commercial \ii(tri£ls; and in thofedif,
trifts, itmufl be known, .that if public'aid is
not given, arms of uniform bore and size can
not be got.
These Volunteers, Mr. S. said, undertake
greater service than the Militia ; theirengage
ments are of a superior kind, and, in order to
induce young men generally to enter into/hefe
corps, every proper encouragement ought to
be held out to them.
Mr. R. Williams said, it appeared tm
him that gentlemen very much abandoned ttie
ground which they originally took. The lioufe
were told when the fubjed of Volunteers was
firft under consideration, that these youths
would produce a very formidable defence for
the United States, without coll. until they
came into aftual service. The r e were reasons
urged in favour of'them, 'when gentlemen
spoke of the Militia as being the natural and
heft defence of the country ; but now gentle
men propose for them one privilege after an
other. It was said, at that tine, that the rais
ing of these corps would not injure the Mili
tia, because they would be liable to do much
m6re duty, and be at greater ex pences, and
that nothing but love of country, could in
duce young men thus to ceme forward. But
now, and on former occalions, attempts have
been made to obtain regulations in their fa
vour. They had hitherto been refilled, .-Mid
he trusted they would-be so, for if ever mate
rial distinctions were made betwixt these corps
and the militia, they would produce nothihg
butdifcontent. W lull} the duty bears equally
upon the people, they will never complain—
thev will do the duty they are called upon to
perform; but, whenever advantages are giv
en to one class qf citizens more than to ano
ther, diflatisfadtions and cdtnplaint lare the
immediate consequences.
What are the Militia obliged to do f They
are compelled to provide their'owi\arafs, and
to be fubjeft to the call of government upon
any fervrce upon which they may think it ne
ceirary to engage them. If is true, that the
Volunteers maybe called into service for a
longer period at a time ; bat that was a con
dition of their engagement with which they
were acquainted at the time. But here is a
proposition to loan them arms ; and he was of
opinion this circumttance might induce many
men to join these corps, rather than the M li
tis, w here they would have to purchase th<J : r
own arms, lfgovernment have/ ndtthe arriT*
to fell at present, as had been suggested, but
that they might loan them,.why not put the
provifioir upon that ground, and (ay the arms
(hall be loaned until they can be got for sale
to tliem. To such a provision he (hould no
object. The gentleman last up had said, ,the
volunteers ought to have a preference given
them, but he thought not. He (uppofes that
the enihufiafm which is at present so prevalent
in the cities, will spread to the country. Mr.
W. wilhed it might; but if it did, could tji«
gentleman suppose that, there are arms enow
in the public arsenals to lend to these youths
throughout the country ? If not, these pcrlons
being excused trom militia duty, will be ex
cused from all military duty whatsoever. Be
sides, if the United States were to find arms
forall these volunteers, he wiihei gentlemen
to recollett.how serious a fujn it would cpft.
He hoped, therefore, the loan of arms would
be confined to field pieces.
Mr. Edmond observed the gentleman
from N. Carolina Jail up had said he was op
pffed to definitions, yet he lim advoiitpdanamendment which will go to create them.
Tlus| morning a bill i.act oeen palfed for sup
plying the -Militia with arms, and if neither
the State Governments, nor individuals, will
ptirchafe them, they are to be loaned to the
peopJe. He himfelf oppofrd that measure,
because he believed it would discourage per
sons from purchasing arms, when they had a
profpecl ot borrowing them, though he be
lieved the gentleman from N. Carolina was
in favour of it.
The Volunteers (land upon a very different
ground from that 011 which the original bill
proposed toplacethem. Itwas there proposed
that they (hould not go beyond the limits ofan
adjoining (fate And in that cafe multitudes
would have come forward, provided they
fhouid not be called to serve as a Standing
Army, whilst their familieswere left destitute.
Men might then have been tempted to have
left the Militia, in order to have joined these
corps ; but if Congrcfs goes so tar as to fay
they will depend solely for the defence of the_
cou'ntry upon the ardour and patriotism ot
these young men, what will these gentlemen
fay > Each will fay to himfelf. " 1 am now
exempt from military duty, there is no law to
compel me to it ; but if 1 go into these Volun
teer Corps, I must. equip and arm inyfelf; I
may Ire marched to the extreme parts of the
Union, and not return for two years. If Ido
not join tbiscorps, 1 can (lay at home, and
when called upon, do Militia duty with my
neighbours. u —Wher#, then, he asked, was
the inducement tobecomeVolunteers ? There
is none, and :t canohly be a pure tenement of
Patriotism which could induce Young Men
to enter these corps. He hoped, therefore, the 1
law would not be trammelled, but that the .
encouragement held out by this clause would,
at lealt, be agreed to ; especially as men ;
beyond the age of 45>, who are excused from I
Militia duty, miglu join these corps. 1
Mr. S. Smith laid the arguments of the
gentleman lad up g e to this, that there are l
no arms to be bought. His amendment said 1
no such thing. He wished the volunteers to (
ptirchafe their arms at once. If the gentleman 1
from Connecticut could Ihtw, that the govern- 1
mem could loan arms, but could not fell ]
them, his arguments would have some weight, t
With refpett to the bill parted thismorning, <
it did not originally contemplate any loan of (
arms ; but amendment had been intro- i
duced into it, providing that in cafe of any I
emergency, and any of the arms (hall remain |
unfold, they lhall be loaned to such persons (
as may stand in need of them. I
Supposing that 500 c stand of arms were on- <
ly to be lent to these Volunteers, it would ]
create a dtaft on the Treasury for 80,000 dol- 1 1
lars, and he thought it would be much better (
to fuffer individuals, who would generally be i
very able to dr* it, each of them to pay 14 of j
16 dollars for their own. |;
Mr. Dana fuppofed,as a military man, the < (
gentleman from Maryland, would admit the j 1
propriety of retaining a considerable quantity 1 1
ef arms in the arsenals of the United States.
Would it not, then, be folly and madness to ;
fell all the arms out of the Arsenals of the 1
United States > Ought we not to have fuffi
cient for an army, in cafe of invalion ( Ad- 1
mitring we have only this quantity at present,
if we loan them', and take receipts for them
from confidential officers, they might be at
any time returned in better condition, proba
bly, than they were lent, so that no expence
would be incurred. And these arms cannot be
purchased of a proper calibre any where elle.
And what was the amount, Mr. D. a(ked,
of the elegant harangue ot ihe gentleman
from N. Carolina, on the odioufnefs of dis
tinctions. Does he mean to fay there ought
to be no diftinttions in the community f
When men arediftingu-ilhed by theirb'-irthens,
ought they not to be diftinguiftied also by
their privileges.
The Yeas and Nays were called and taken
k (as given in aformerpaper.) The qtieftionon
the intendment was negatived 46 to 35.
The bill was then ordered to be read a third
time to mqrrow.
Mr. H'arfer called up the two resoluti
ons which he yellerday laid upon the table ;
the one for appropriating a sum of money for
the support of the new regiment of Artillery
for this year; and the other to authorize the
President to borrow a sum of money for .the
service of Government for the current year,
which were agreed to.
Mt. Van Alen asked and obtained leave
of absence f«r the remainder of tne feflion, for
his colleague Mr. J. Williams, on account of
the indilpuiitioiioi his family.
Adjourned.
Second Volunteer Grenadiers.
" The Philadelphia Volunteer Company of
Grenadiers" havingattained its fullcomplement,
jtyl a number of applicant! still remaining on
the lift, it is proposed to form them into a St
cond Company*
Accordingly, all persons (ofthe height of Five
Feet Nine Inches, or upwards) rtefirotie of join
ing the eflablilhment, will still have an opportu
nity of doing so, by making immediate applica
tion to either ofthe anderfigned.
JoJhua M. Wallace, Jun. 39, North Sixth Street.
John Ward Fenno, 119, Cbefnut Street.
Thomas B Zantzinger, 239, High Street.
William Potter, 74, South third Street.
<?. K. Harrifoa, 53 Cbefnut Jirect.
Danl. Murgatroyd, 11 Walnut-Jlreet.
Attention ! Cavalry !
At a meeting of a number of citizens held at
the house of William Ogden, for the pnrpofe
of raising a troop of Horse (tobe attached te
y acpherfoa's lilues) the following gentlemen
were appointed an electing committee.
Robert Wharton Pine-street Wharf
James Simmoo9 Noti So Fifth-ftreet
Jonathan Robefon Spruce-street Wharf
John R. Taylor No 5 Church alley
Samuel Keith 397 So. Feont-llreet
SpafTord Drury ti Arch-ltreet
Henry Nixon 44 Pine-street
Those gentlemen of the City and Liberties
who are dtßrous of becoming members of the
fame will apply at the house of either of the
committee or at the house of Mr. William Og
den in Chefnut street every Tuefdayand Friday
evening, where they will attend from 8 to 9
o'clock for that purpose.
June 17 '
*„* The different printers of the',city are re
quelled to publjk the foregoing.
The Subicribers to the fund
for building the (hip to be loaned to the United
Stages, are hereby notified that 35 per cent upon
their refpeitive fubferiptions i, now called for—
and that notes payable at 60, lioand 180 diys in
eqml proportions will be received for the remain
der. The secretary will attend at the office of the
committee from 1© to 1 o'clock every cay, to re
ceive the fame, and give receipts therefor.
ROBERT RITCHIE, Sec'ry.
jn'y 3 ; S
Tele Let,
(And poffeflion given on the ift of May)
A genteel three story brick House ?
*1 feet front, aud 40 feet deep, with back buildings
and stables.at present in the tenure of Major Jack
son. Enquire at 187 South Third ilrect.
April a. -■ §
%\)t <2>a3ette.
PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVENING, Juir 9.
CONGRESS.
The House ofßeprefenratives of the Unit
ed States, on Saturday, went into a committee
of the whole on the bill to augment the army
of the United States, and for other purposes.
This bill provides that each regiment of in
fantry (hall in future conlift of 600 privates,
and the proper officers, and that twelve addi
tional regiments of Infantry and fix troops of
Light Dragoons lhall be enlisted for and dur
ing the continuance of theexifting differences
between the United States and., the French
Republic. The pay of the privates in the army
ofthe Uniteii States is, by this bill, increas
ed from tour to fix dollar» a month; sergeants
and senior mulicians to eight; corporals and
musicians to seven dollars ; and artificers to
the infantry and artillery, Sind farriers ar.d fad
[ dlers to the dragoons are to receive ten dol -
lars a month. This increase of pay is to take
place on the ift of August next.
Mr. Harper m ved an increase of pay to
Captains and Subalterns, which was negativ
ed, there being only four votes for it. *
Mr. Allen moved an amendment propos
ing that the additional men proposed to be
railed, (hall be raised by the several (tates,ac
cording to their population; but this motion
did not meet with a second.
Mr. Nicholas mbved to reduce the 11
additional regiments of infantry proposed to
be raised to eight ; which was negatived 43
to 19.
Mr. Kittera wilhed to amend that part
of the bill which fixes the period of the enlist
ment of the men, to-read in this manner : for
and during the existing differences between the
U. States and France and her pojjcjjtons. His
reasons were, that in cafe the government of
France (hould be changed from a Republic
to a Monarchy, Military Despotism, Ariltp
eracy, or any other form, before the conclu
sion of ourdifpute ; it might be doubtful, as
it now stood, whether the service of these men
(hould then cease ; and he wilhed if our dis
pute with France was fettled, and we (hould
still be at war with her poffellions in the Weft
Indies,* New Orleans or' Florida: (supposing
Spain to have ceded the latter places to
France) that these mepilbould not leave the
service, until our dispute with these powers
(hould alio be fettled.
On Mr. Gallatin's faying he could not
lee how we could be at peace with Frauce, and
at ivar with her poflefilons, the mover con
sented to strike out her possessions; and the o
ther part of the amendment was negatived 46
to 26.
The house palled the bill making a farther
appropriation of 600,000 dollars for the addi
tional naval armament, 54 votes being for it.
The Senate informed the House, they had
agreed to the amendments ot the House of
Representatives to the bill declaring the trea
ties heretofore concluded with France no lon
ger obligatory on the United States; and be
fore the House rose, the President of the Uni
ted States informed the House, that he had
approved and signed that ail; also the aft re
fpetting Alien Enemies; and the ail provid
ing arms for the militia ofthe U. States.
The following resolution has been unani.
moufly adopted by the Legislature of Mas
sachusetts at their late leffion ; and* an a
roendment to the constitution ofthe United
States in contormity thereto, has been pro
pof- d in Congrefj and will be taken into
consideration at their next fefSon.
WHEREAS it is highly expedient that
every cOnstitutional barrier fhouid be oppo
sed to the introduction of foreign influence
into our national councils, and that the
constitution of the United State! fhouid be
so amended, as to etfe& and secure in the
best manner the great objed for which it
was (lefigned :
Refoived, That the Senators and Repre
sentatives of this commonwealthin the Con
gref6 ot the United States be, and they are
he thy requested to use their best endeavors
that Congrcfs propose to the legislature* of
the fi-veral states the following amendment
to the constitution of the United States, viz.
" That (in addition to the other qualificati
ons prescribed by said constitution) no per
son lhall be eligiole aj President or Vice-pre
sident of the United States, nor shall any
person be a Senator or Representative in the
Congrcfs of the United States, except a
natural born citizen* or unless he shall have
been a refldent in tHe United States at the
lime of the Declaration of Independence,
and lhall h ve continued either to reside
within the fame or to be employed in its
service from that period to the time ef his
eleftion."
At a meeting at the house of Robert
Rattoon, on Monday evening, the 25th
June, 1798, of the Aflociated Cempany of
Artillery, in the city of Perth Amboy, in
the (late of New-Jersey, composed of ex
empts from militia services, and others, vo
luntarily affi ciaud for the purpose of defence
against depredations byforeign nations, their
fubjeSs or citizens ;
John Rattoon, Efa. was elefted Chair
man, and George W. Marshall, Secretary
of the meeting.
Forty-eight persons having signed the
aflociatien, and a large majority hein" pre
sent, pursuant to notice given, the follow
ing resolution was moved, viz.
r WHEREAS to obtain the objefts of
1 this aflbciation, it is highly neceflary that
our officers shall be duly appointed and
commiflioned, and that the afTociators be
fubjefiied to neceflary rules and regulations :
, And whereas the defence of our country
I mull, under God, depend on the virtue,
firmnefs and patriotism of its citizens: And
whereas we, the said aflociators, are desirous
, of manifefting our zeal in the cause of our
conntry at this critical and threatning crisis;
- and are willing to hazard our lives in sup
" port of the freedom and independence of
the United States, its constitution, laws,
and government, and considering the pre
sent defencelefs state of the city and port:
We do ref'jhte, That we will tender our
services to the United States, agreeably to
the aft of Congress to raise a provisional
. army ; and if the tender be accepted of by
the President, that application ought to be
made for ordnance, arms and (lores com- j
petent to the purpose proposed ; and that j
thin meeting do now proceed "to the elsftion ,
of fuitableand proper pcrfons to be recom- |
mended to the President of the United |
States, to be by him appointed and com- i
mi (Turned ; —which was agreed to.
The meeting then proceeded to the elec- j
tion of officers to be recommended to the ]
Prefidtnt, when '■
John Angus, as Taptain,
Matthias Halsted, as id Lieut.
David Wait, as id Lieutenant, ■
Were duly defied. |
Refolv d, That they be recommended to
the President of the United States as our
officers, and that John Angus, Esq. be re
quelled to wait on the President, with the
proceedings of this meeting, to tender our
fervicc*; and to apply fir appointments and
commiffion9 for our officers, and for such or
dinance, arms and (lores, as (hall be de med
necessary and proper for the pnrpofss afore
faid.
JOHN RATTOON, Chairman.
GEO :W. M RS ALL, Sec'ry.
N B. The above Gentlemen have ac
cordingly been appointed, by the President
of the (Inited States, to the several military
offices affixed to t leir refpeftive names.
After the general parade on Wednesday
lad (being the Anniversary of American In
dependence) the Fird City Troop of Light
Dragoons, commanded by Capt. Dunlap, and
accompanied by a band of Mulic, marched to
Mr. Geifle's place at Point no Point, where
an excellent cold collation was provided, on
the Banks of the Delaware.
The harmony and conviviality which pre
vailed were, in every refpe£t, adapted to the
celebration of the aufpiciotis day ; and in
creased by the attendance of Captain Morris,
and several others of the Veterans, who form
ed the Trotjp in 1775.
The following Toads, expreflive of the sin
cere sentiments of Freemen, were received
with equal unanimity and applause:
1. The Day, and those who support it.
2. The People and the Laws —Confufion
to the ,<i;empt to separate them.
3. The United States, Free, Sovereign
and Independent.
4. Congress—Wisdom and Energy to
their Councils.
5. The PRESIDENT. May the lovers of
their Country form his Shield.
6. GeneraIWASHINGTON. May Vic
tory add fre(h Laurels to those already
won; and may the old city troop
again witness his Glory, rtiare his Toils,
and accompany him to his honorable
retirement.
7. GENERAL»PINCKKEYdndMARSHALL,
our late Envovs to Trance.
8. The American Eagle—May it take
the Gallic Cock by the gills.
9. The Army of the United States : May the
spirit of 1776 be infufed thro' their
ranks, and the remembrance of their
Fathers deeds lead to victory.
10. The Navy of the United States : Plain fail
ing to Truth and Virtue.
11. The Militia. May no X or Y noc
found, but firmnefs bind, them,
ij. The VoLUNTEtR Corps. May their
ardour increase with the exigencies of
_ their Country.
13. Brigadier General Macphersom,
the Gentleman and the Soldier.
14.. Wlieji a Senator betrays the Councils of
his Country, let him be marked.*
ij. When a Legislator openly wiflies an pp
pofition to his country's laws, curse on
his virtue.
16. The altar of peace, fculptur'd from
the rocifof fortitude—honor its
bafe —its summit, glory.
Volunteer.
The Fair Sex—The only human beings,
to whom we will ever bend the knee.
* When this Toajl was given, the Rogue's
March was unanimously called for.
Wednesday being the Anniversary of Ame
rican Independence, thefecond Troop ofPlii
ladelphia Cayalry, commanded by Captain
Singer, (after performing the orderof march)
proceeded to the lower ferry on Schuylkill,
where, after partaking of an elegant dinner,
they drank the following Toads :
1. The F«urth of July 1776 —May that
Spirit by which the Independence of Ameri
ca was then proclaimed, be now found to sup
port it. (6 cheers.)
2. The People of the U. S.—Vlay they
know their Rights and support them with
firmnefs. (6 cheers.)
3. The President of theU. S.—May those
who forget his fervicesand asperse his charac
ter never enjoy the confidence of an honed
man. (9 cheers.)
4. General WASHINGTON, thefcourge
of tyrants, whose valor, wisdom and virtue,
so happily conspired to confirm the American
Independence—May its enemies remember
that he is dill alive. (16 cheers.)
5. The Governor and State of Pennsylva
nia—May her Sons ever animated by the Pu
red patriotiftn, evince'heir worthiness of the
pofleffion of Liberty by their energy in its
support. (6 cheers
6. Our late Commissioners and Envoys Ex
traordinary to the Fiench Republic—unfedu
ced by artifice—iunterrified by dangers, they
have erefted a Monument to their Fame
" more durable than brass." (9 cheers.)
7. The memory 01 the gallant heroes, who
fell in our late revolutionary war—May the
recollection of their heroic virtues inspire us
with zeal for the support of that liberty, for
which they fought, bled, and died. (9 cheers.
8. May the Patripts of the present day e
mulate the virtues of their ancedors, and ral
lying round the dandavd of their Liberty de
fend it with their lives and fortunes.
(9 cheers.)
9. The Senate and House of Representa
tives of the 6J. S.—May they deted foreign
influence, and govern only for America.
(6 cheers.)
10. The Navy of the U. S.—May nothing
impede its growth untill it becomes the pro
tection of i\s country and the terror of its
enemies. (6 cheers.)
11. The Commerce of the United States—
May prosperous gales waft our ships to every
quarter of the Globe in fafety. (9 cheers.)
12. Agriculture—May our farmers pursue
it with Peace, and be bled with Plenty.
(6 cheers.)
13. May the blefTings of Freedom be en
joyed by all mankind —and the Sun ofLiberty
illuminate their paths. (6 cheers.)
14. May the differences among Americans,
arising from a diversity of politic*! opinions—
be fuperceded by an universal love and regard
for their common country. (16 cheers.)
15. The memory of the brave General
Wayne. (6 cheers.)
16. The American fair—May they despise
the man who refufcs to draw his sword in the 1
defence of his country. (,16 cheers.)
VOLUNTEER. '
Col. Macpherfon and his Blues.
On Wednesday lad. the Troop of Volun
teer Greens, commanded by Captain Morrell,
after having joined the milita y parade of the
day, proceeded to Bu(h-Hill, where they fat
down to an elegant entertainment, provided
by Mr. Darley
After dinner, the following toasts were
drank :
I. The Fourth of July 1776 —May Ame
ricans never forget the memory of those he
roes who have permitted us to celebrate it.
2* The President of the United States —
May his confidence in the virtue- and patriot
ism of his fellow-citizens never be diminilhed.
(9 cheers.)
3. The Conllitution and Laws of the Uni- J
ted States.
4. George Washington, the father and de- |
fentWof liis country. —Whenfie again un
(heathes his sword, lej foreign foes and do
mellic traitors tr mble. (9 cheers.)
5. James Marlhall and Charles Pincknev. ;
May their virtuous and honorable en- j
Jeavours' to accomplish the objefts of their
mission to France, be ever held in grateful
remembrance. (3 cheers.)
6. Falfied be the arm that would wiite
" America (hall pay tribute.'' (9 cheers)
7. Jonathan Dayton, the Speaker of the
House of Reprefeatatives of the United
States.
8. Robert Goodloe Harper, aDd his patri
otic Associates in both Houfeso! Congrefs—
the vanguard of the friends of ®i:r govern
ment. (3 cheers.)
9th. May the war hatchet never be buried
but in the graves of the invaders of our coun
try.
10th. Blues,and all the other
volunteer corps of the United States. (3
cheers.)
nth. May the folly and tyranny of the
present rulers of Francefoon become extinft.
12th. Our Miniflers abroad—may. dis
grace and infamy ever be the lot of such as
have been unmindful of their country' 9 in
terefls
13th. May puni(hm:nt and detestation a -
wait those base Americans who have aided
and affilted our enemies in depredating our
commerce.
14th. The agricultural and commercial m
terefts of our country —never to be separa
ted.
15th. The American Navy—lt (hall pro.
test the Honour of the Americas Flag.
16. Our Fair Country-women—May they
disdain the youth who will refufe to resent his
country's wrong*.
After the nth toad, a refpe&ful deputa
tion was sent to Capt. Moore's compai.y of
Federal Grenadiers, who were dining in an
adjoining building, to compliment them on
the day, and offer them their good wishes.
On their return, the Grenadiers were toasted
in a full bumper ; and soon after, a deputa
tion from that corps returned the compliment,
with whom it was so arranged, that, at the
found of the trumpet and the b at cfthedrum,
the following toall was drank at the fame
moment, in the midst of acclamation* the
mod ardent,.and with a sensibility and affec
tion beyond expression.
17. Lieutenant General George Washing
ton.
After the repast, wMch was temperate
and moderate, becoming military Volunteers
and Soldiers impress d with a p oper sense
of the dangers which threaten their country,
the troop accompanied the Grenadiers in
their march to the city , on entering which
they joined the line for ned by Macpherfon's
Blues and captain Singer's Cavalry, and
thence proceeded to their usual place of dif
initial.
BALTIMORE, July 5.
*" Let Independence be our Boast"
If in the annals of the world, there ever was
an sera worthy of being immortalized by the
pen of the hiflorian —handed down through
end'.efs generation as a glorious example to eve
ry insulted, wronged and opprelTed country—or
as a warning to nations whose power is their
sole rule of right—and deserving of being rank
ed among tht political feftivals of the world—
that sera is the Anniversary of the American
Independence. .
There cannot be, and there was not one real
American, but felt yesterday, in its full force,
the enthusiastic fire of genuine patriotilm ; and
we are happy to fay, that valuing the honor,
liberty and independence of their country, in
proportion as the danger of' losing them becomes
greater, the citizens of Federal Baltimore cele
brated the aufpiciou9 day with greater demon
strations of patr otifm, feftivity and joy, than
was ever witnelTed on any former occalion.
Ere the grey mantle of morn was withdrawn,
our eager citizen foldiera were roused from their
flumher, and the found of the trumpet and the
drum fummonedtheni to [he jubilee. The dif
ferent military corps assembled early on their re
fpeiftive parade grounds, and about eight o'clock
formed brigade, confiding of th« fifth, sixth
and twenty-seventh regiments, and marched to
the review ground, on Federal Hill. Brigadier
general Swan was absent from town, and col.
Strieker .lifted as commanding officer of the day,
to whom much praise is due, for hi 6 care of the
health and convenience of the men.
After reaching the hill, the troops were form
ed in a line, and performed their exercise much
to the litis fail ion of the greated concourse of
citizens ever assembled on a similar eccafion, a
mong whom there was a great colleiftion of
ladies. 1 here was no small number of
pretty young {men, too, who, the ladies are
of opinion, would have appeared to much great
er advantage in the ranks, than as idle fpefta
tors of men whom they envied, without the spi
rit to imitate. -
About eleven o'clock the troops returned to
town, and having drawn up in Market-flreet,
fiied a feu-de-joie, and were difmificd.
On no occasion did the volunter companies
m?kefo numerous and brilliant an appearance,
which we hope will dill be kept up, though the
Fourth of July be palled.
The Observatory was dreded out with unu
sual gaynefaand splendor, in honor of the day :
and Gray's gardens were croudcd, to overflow
ing, in the evening^
To celebrate tlip anniversary of American In
dependence, the city company, commanded by
captain Harris, csmpofed of feme of the moil
refpe<fUbfe and venerable of our citizens, as
sembled at Mr. Bryden's inri, and during the
dinner were honored with the company of gen.
Stone, president of the Cincinnati of this state*
and other members of that patriotic i'ociety ;
when the following toasts, expreflive of the sen
timent» of the corps refpedling pubHe charaders
and public measures, were given with general
and heartfelt fatisfadlion.
i. The day we celebrate ; and peace with
safety ; but war, before dishonor /
а. The constitution of the United States;—
May it be perpetual.
3. The people and government ; United they
prosper, divided they perilh
4. The president ; May his wisdom, firm
nefs and integrity, annihilate French diplomatic
skill.
5. General Wafliington, the hero, the patri
ot and the statesmen ; May hi? f'ucceflbrs adopt
his principles and pra<stife his virtues.
б. The late Envoys extraordinary to the
French republic ; May they be honored by their
native country for the integrity and talents they
difphyed in maintaining the jujlice and dignity
of the United States, and exposing the rapacity
of the French republic, in violation of the laws
of nations and ot solemn treaties.
7 Our foriegn ministers ; May henefiy be
their policy, and love of country their ruling
1 pafiion.
8. " Millions for defence, but not a cent for
tribute
q. Agriculture and commerce ; They must
j flourifl), or perish together.
ic, The navy; May the American flag be
refpeded and honored in every qus<*ter of the
globe.
Ti. The militia, the bulwark of a free repub
lic ; May they always unite the citizen with the
soldier.
la. The officers and soldiers of. the army ;
May glory crown their arms, and lave reward
their labors.
13. The American youth ; May rhey support
with their swords, the independence and freedom
they inherit from their ancestors.
14. The fair of America—May they be' Tow
their smiles and beauty only ou the patriots and
soldiers who maintain and defend the rights and
liberties of their country.
15. The majority in the senate and house of
representatives ; May they trample upon oppo
sition, and continue to icceive the approbation of
their constituents.
16. A free importation of arms, and i gene
ral exportation of French democrats.
VOLUNTEER TOASTS.
I. Our fellow-citiien, judge Chafe, one of
the patriotic of seventy fix, who sign
ed the Declaration of Independence.
a. Liberty and the Laws ; May their protec
tion be mutual, and their union perpetual.
3. The land we live in ; And confufion to "
those who would divide us.
4. The bottom of Mount JEtna to the con
gress of Menticella.
5. The real Americans, who at no period
were diverted from a love of country, by either
Ca Ira, or God Save the King.
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, July 7.
By the arrival of the Draper, Capt. Collins,
we have received Irish papers to May 12,
from which we give the following ex
tracts :
LONDON, May I.
Yesterday accounts were received in town
from Vienna to the following effeft, aud
which may be perse ctly relied jm :
General Bernadotte, the French ambassa
dor at Vienna, had for some time pall con
duced himfelf in a manner which had given
great offence to the people of that city.—
He at le gth, one evening, hoisted the tri
coloured flag in the front of his hotel. The
commissary of the diltrift lent to remon
strate with him upon the proceeding, but
Bernadotte paid no attention to t(ie message
of the commissary. A mob soon assembled
round the hotel, tore down the flag, broke
the windows of the hotel, and drew two
carriages of the ambassador into the street,
which they broke in pieces. Bernadotte,
exasperated at theft proceedings, had, be
fore these advice left Vienna, given notice
to the court of his determination to quit
that place, and repair immediately to Paris,
for the purpose of laying his complaint be
fore the Directory.
May 2.
The difturbarice at Vienna having, in the
present crisis, much agitated the public
mind, we are happy to add the following
extraft from another letter relative to that
event, dated April 14,
" Count Ptrgen, minister of state and
general police, has issued the following pro
clamation, refpefting the affray w'>ich yes
terday took place in', and before the French
ambassador's palace. s
" His majesty the emperor has received,
with the utmost fatisfaftion, the various
proofs of loyalty and attachment, manifefted
by the good citizens of this metropolis on
so many occalions fitice his acccfiion to the
throne ; and these proofs are the more
pleasing to his paternal feelings, as they
were always attended with love of order,,
propriety of condu£t, and a peaceful de
meanor, For the firll time, his- majesty
learned yesterday, to his great displeasure,
that some inhabitants of this capital, devi
ating from the path of lawful order, and led!
astray by an ill-judged zeal, allowed themw
selves to commit several afis of vio'ence in»
the house 6f the French ambassador, and t»
. disturb the public tranquility and peace.
His majelty expe£b. that from this moment
no well disposed citizen, either direftly or
indireftly, will encourage any farther assem
blage, but on the contrary, will exert him
felf to the utmost extent of his abilities, to
restore order and tranquility. But if, con
trary to his expeiftation, any inhabitant of
this city (hould attempt again to disturb
the peace of their fellow citizens, the fame
' (hall be prosecuted and punilhed according
' to the utmost rigoV of the law."
. Seven hundred and eighty vessels, capable
( of carrying' one hundred men each, one
cannon, and drawing not more than 18
inches of water, are stated to be building
between Calais and the Tsxel,and are to be
ready in three weeks.
The Directory, it would appear, wifli to
avoid committing themselves upon the bufi
. ness at Vienna, until they {hall have had
, more time to deliberate ;,for the Reda&cue
t, is fi'eut refpeftiog the official steps thathave been taken in eonfequence of the as- j
fair, and the unofficial Journals only have i
yet been resorted to, for the pwrpufe of
proclaiming to France the lively sorrow of
the court of Vie»na, in consequence of a
lawUfs a 4 of the mobility, which it alto- i
gether disavows !
A circumstance likely to produce more I
feri.>us consequences than the preceding,'is i
the dmh of Jean Bon St. Andre, who has <
been decapitated by the Dey of Algiers, re- <
gardlefs of the vengea -ct that might be ex
pf ded to be attempted by the Great Nation, i
for fucli an aft committed on the person of a
one of its accredited agents ! We are not I
I informed of the circumstances that led to j
this catastrophe ; but, (hould it be confirm. f
ed, wc would not be surprized (hould the >■ J
learned expedition, prepared for Egypt be ; (
ordered to pay the Dey a visit in its pafiage f
ftierely to give him a iittle schooling on the c
refped due to strangers.
A letter from Raftadt of the 2id of A- ' v
pril, Hates, that on the Bth a treaty of of- 1
fenfive and defeniive alliance was con- : a
eluded and signed between the Empe- a
ror arid the King of Prussia. It is not, t
ho ' evt-r, conceived that this alliance has a
for its objed the renewal of a continental i
war. Its on!* objed is to concert measures
rtfpeding the indemnities to be required by fl
the two Courts of Germany, an Ito oppose c
wi h combined frrct the prcpagatfon of re- fl
publican principles on the left bank of the J
Rhine, and left of Germany. It is also I
stated that general Harry's army ha pafled fl
over to the right bank of the Rhine, and that o
the Prufiians and Heffiarwhaveiikewifemade q
fevetal military movements.
The French general who commands in the
ffland of Corsica, hasiflbed a p oelamation,
dating that the squadron aflembled at that e
vfland has Liled for the purpose of co-ope- r
rating in the expedition agai.ft England.
Wt(Star) have already stated our opinion v
that the late tumultuous attack made by 1
the populace of Vienna upon the residence d
of the French miniller would not produce o
any serious rup ure between Austria and f
the Diredory, as Germany, tho' humbled r
by the Lite events or hostilities, was still in a
a very different situation from that in which b
the Pope was, when they fought a casfe of h
quarrel with him. We stated .hat a difpofi- f,
tion to receive and give explanation would pro- h
babty ll* manifeiled, rather than to appeal 1
Co arms ; and the French journals, which n
we have this day received by express, up to (
to the iftinft. inclusive, seem to eftablilh a
the solidity of our eonjedure. 1
From these papers it appears, that when 1
the account of the tumult reached Paris, c
every artifice was used to impress the public tl
mind with an idea that the populace were
stirred up to the part they aded by the min- c
ifters of England and RufTia, who were o
hurt at the marked attention paid to tfie p
minister of France by the court ol Vienna, ft
A letter from Toulon of the 2cth Ger- t]
minal, announces that a grand expedition is v
preparing in that por- ; an army of 24,000 k
men, taken from the army of Italy, and a
from some of the divisions of the Interior, S
. arf- to embark the 4th Prairial, and to fail u
with a strong squadron (Tha Echo.) o
May 7. fl
Letters from Coblentz announce that ir
Ehrenbrcitftein will not long hold out. d
Extrafl of a private letter from Hamburgh, V
dated April 24. w
" Thp French minister Ryneur went a d
week since ambaflador to Naples. The ci
French confu!, Lagot, with the concurrence d
ef Leonard Bourdon, has eflabli(hed three h
clubs, in two of which all perfonn who tl
choose to afTociate are admitted. Above 8
Joomembers are initiated, and among them fa
several resident i nglifhmen. The third, at w
the consul's own house, is d votea to French in
citizens. Their second tponthly fraternal B
dinner was held about a week since. „•
" Two instalments have been remitted B
to the French of the 230,0001. which Leo- ft
nard Bourdon mod; wickedly imposed upon ec
this city ; and in order to remunerate the at
chamber, an additional tonnage upon (hip- vv
ping is speedily to take place. T
" In conftqujnce of the arrete of the
insolent Diredo'iy, to seize all English pro
perty on board neutral vefTels, your govern- d<
mcnt aded vsry wifely in appointing a strong i c
convoy, two of which bave lately arrived ; an
so that their wicked intentions to rob the hi
trade of this city, which they have so un- h<
mercifully fleeced, has, through the good
condud of your rulers, fallen short of their m
views, and has giveß the Engliih (hipping f 0
a manifell advantage. It results from thence or
that the Dentral veflels can scarcely obtain al
a freight. If the wisdom of the Englifti fit
government would add a good (loop and a
cutter, to give an account of the small priva- ha
teers, the carrying trade would be altoge- a d
ther in the hands of the English, which p,
would make them amends for the loss upon
the value of their goods. Si
" The glutof manufadured Englifti goods U n
:at this market is so sensibly felt, that it has r it
greatly diminilhed the prices. Public auc- th
tions are daily held, and the goods frequent- to
ly fell under prime cost, particularly cotton
■and woolen. f 0;
" Notwithstanding the supposed flourifh- rel
ing state of the Hamburghers, bankruptcies ft a
are frequent—-within a (hor tine there havs ps
have been three great failures, viz. th<
J- M. D. Lienau, for about 84,0000 marcs a ni
banco. G. LrfTer, 200,000. J. C.
Knauth, 620,000—amountingfcltogether Sp
to nea ly 105,0001. sterling. m j
They write from Auxerre, that an im- da'
menfe convoy of all fortsjof Husbandry tools
has just pafled by there, deftiried f r Tou
lon, and that there is no" longer any doubt *
that the expedition which was preparing is
intended as a defc nt in Egypt, and to pre
pare, by opening a canal there, the means '
ofd, llr-yin r Engliih commerce in India.
(Cliff du Cabieet). bet'
A lift of navy officers has jtift been pub- H l '
iifhed at Paris. It appears that there are
fix admirals, wittiout including Bruys, fnn
Bltviller Lepelley, lately pror.iot d ; sixteen
I j
at- 1 rear admirals; not triiluditig Bidout, Cour.
ive j and, I < irailon, and Decres also lately pro
of moted ; forty nine cohftnanders of divisions
of fifty captains of (hips of the firft class, forty
a eight d tto of the feeond olafs, 18 captains
0- • of frigates, 527 lieutenants and 572 ensigns.
" Nothing new has occurred in the fitua
ire tion of our flotilla," fays a letter from Ha
is vre, dated 4 Floreal, (April 23) » It is still
as at Saianelies, a nd the Englifli a re still on our
e- coasts.
X- A Utter from Corsica states, that the co
n, ral fifheries or. he coafl of Africa have been
of abundant: the sailors having been taken away
at by the French for some expedition the olj
to jedt of which not kn >wn: we have good rea
a. son to believe, however, fays the French
le j Journalist, that the French fleet in the port
>e j of Genoa is destined to take possession of
;e Sardinia, with the consent of the Concrrcfs
ie | of Turin.
j A great number of Picdmontefe Patriots
L- who have taken refuge at Milan and Genoa,
f- have formed themselves into an army, and
a- are marching into Piedmont, aud they have
e- already (if rumour is to bebeli. ved) planted
t, the tree of Liberty in raly places, and
as are attacking their oppreflors ineverydireft
al ion.
:s Letters from Stetin, dated the 13th April
•V state, that gr at discontents prevail at Mos
fc cow, and at Peter&urgh £ that *he new fy
e- stem adopted by Paul, and still more his fol
le lies, have turned many people against him.
0 His ridiculous sumptuary laws, and the
d ftri&nefs with areexecutcd, have
it occasioned many foreigners of all nations to
le quit RuHia.'
ie SIR SIDNEY SMITH.
1 ' The following are the p- rtTculars of the
it escape of this brave officer from his imprison
*- ment in Paris t
Finding that all hope of an exchange was
'n vanished, and that the confinement was like
y ly to be more rigorous, Sir Sidney Smith,
■ determined on an escape the firft favourable
e opportunity that offered. He had some
d friends at Paris, who admiring his gallant
d ry, and commiserating his misfortunes, were
n anxious to efFeft his deliverance. It had
h been ordered by the minister of police, that
>f he and Mr. Wright, a gentleman taken pri
-- foner with Mr. Sidney, aud a partner in all
I- his misfortunes, (hould be removed from the
1 Temple Prison in Paris to another jail still
h more common, called the Gen. Depository.
0 (According to other accounts, this remov
h al was to a place distant from the capital.)
This removal was to have taken place on
n Tuesday fe'night last, and measures were ac
i, cordingly planned to effed a rescue of both
c these gentlemen.
e On that evening they were put in a fia
- ere or hackney coach, accompanied by two
e of the jailors. On their way to their new
e place of confinement a child ran across the
t. street, and was nigh being trampled upon by
the horses. At the fame time there was a
S violent (hrieking ; the coach flopped, and a
3 kind of mob instantly surrounded the carri
-1 age. The coach door was opened, and Sir
Sidney and Mr. Wright escaped.' A chaise
1 was in readiness to convey them instantly
out of Paris, which was done without the
flighted inconvenience or bustle. They made
t immediately for the coast about Havre, fen
ding guides forward to fee that all wa» fafe.
, Whenever they came near pods where there
were strong guards of military, called corps
a da furvcillancc, they either halted or tOok a
e circuitous route on foot. They were two
e days concealed in woods, in the neighbour
e hood of which was encamped a great part of
3 the army of England. 1 After a journey of
e 8 days, the guides condu&ed thenv »ery
1 faftly and fkilfu'ly to a place near Havre,
t where they got on board a fifhing vefTel, and
1 in a few hours after they fell in with the
1 British squadron cruizing off Havre. They
were taken on board the Argo frigate, capt.
1 Boweti, whojoyfully received these welcome
strangers, and on Saturday they were land
-1 ed at Portsmouth, amidst the acclamations
and congrat lations of all ranks of people,
• who lined the streets as they paifed along. 1
The fame civilities were (hewn Sir Sidney at
; every place where he was recognized.
A few days previous to his escape, an or
• der had been given by the Minister of Pol
i ice, to confine Sir Sidney more rigorously,
i and to limit the extent of the walk allowed
■ him to take the air, though it was only two <
hours each day. He had been nominally al-
I lowed a Louis d'Or a day by the govern
ment, but had never received any money
: for the last seven months. He had only the (
' ordinary al owance of the prison ; but sever
al friends did all in their power to render his '
1 situation as comfortable as possible.
Sir Sidney, as soon as he arrived in tqwn,
had a conference with Earl Spencer at the I
admiralty and afterwards paid a visit to the I
Prince of Wales at Carlton'Houfe.
The long and rigorous confinement which 1
Sir. Sidney has fuffered, has made a very j
unfavorable change in his person. His spi
rit, however, is unabated, and we hope <
that the air of Great Britain will soon rcf- J
tore his health. 3
There can belittle doubt that he can as- i
ford important intelligence to government j
refpefting the interior of France, notwith
standing the fituat on of which.he has efca- '
ped, as he was allowed a certain period of ,
the day for air and exercise, and it a&ive
and observing.
Sir Sidney dined yesterday with Lord 1
Spencer, at his Lordship's house in the ad
miralty.
Sir Sidney was taken prisoner on Mon
day the 18th of April, 1796.
c
PARIS, April »y.
General Buonaparte has not yet quitted this city.
The late intelligence from Vienna feenis to have '
opcafioned his departure to be put off for a few
days.
April 28.
Violent altercations are said to be taken place 1
between the French ambaflador and the archduke -J
Charles Things it wa* laid was carried to such a *
height, that the emperor was obliged to lend the e
archduke out of the way, and make hini leave Vi- t
enna for * few day 9.
April 30.
The late eveats at Vienna have spread the uUnoft
confirmation al P.i:iflt is nfucb to be appre
. bended that it will give rifs to. a war which will
, involve all Germany in ruin. It appears that Ber
nadotte is already arrived at Raftadt.
The answer which the deputation of the'empirc
I have returned to the note of the French plenipo
tentiaries, is evasive and infignifirant. They en
deavor to atoid any explanation upon the point of
secularization, although they have already reco -
nized the principles, and recur to coniiitiorj alrea
dy rej-ded.
Buonaparte is now going to Ra-ladt, like another
Alexander, no doulit, to c:ir the Gordian knot.
1 he troubles of the Swiss Cantons still contin
ue, particularly in the ncighborhoodof the lake of
I entrance. On the 13d of Germinal (April 12)
five hundred peasants attacked th-' town of Arbon,
and massacred the members of the constituted au
: tllonties. V
; T hey state that the ansrehifts had exerted every
| effort to carry the election in favor of men of the
I chandler of Babosuf and his accomplice!. By ail
ing as one man with one will and determination,
on every question, they overpowered the well dis
posed majority, who were left united. A coura
geous feceffioh, howev.r, disappointed th.: parti
tizans of terrorism, and secured the cleSions of
Paris from the detestable influence of the partizans
anarchy.
We wait with a lively impatience to f«e the part
which the lepiflative body will take, relative to
the various choices which have taken place, and
which seem to threaten us with the return of the re
volutionary tyranny, and to suspend it once more
over our heads. Ihe directory pronounces moll
decidedly against theufurpation of popular fuffra
ges. The direclory docs not disguise that there
is a faflion spread over the couotry, united in ob
jeit and exertion heftile to the Milling-conftitutioil,
and tinflured with the moll dtteftable principles
of terrorism. It is likewise asserted by the offi
cial journals, that aslaft year the partizans of roy
alty displayed the royal standard, the partizans of
' •rrorif.n have this year openly avowed their pur
'pofe.
The executive diredlory, in a public fitting on
the 19th April, received citizeni Gluftiniasi, thi
envoy extraordinary from the Roman Republic,
M. de Stael, msnifler plenipotentiary of the king
of Sweden j and citizen I.upi, miuiAer plenipo
tentiary from the Ligurian republic.
/ NEW-YORK, July 7.
Verbal accounts by the Draper flat;, That Ire
land, though somewhat divided, can uever be in
vaded, while the English fleet exists. The exist
ence of this fleet is now a pleafingfourcc of confo
iation to those in America who do not wi(h her
deftru&ion.
Flaxfeed bore a high price, and things began to
wear a more favorable afpefl.
A letter from Dublin of the 7th May, mentions
the death of the noted JENKINS, clerk in one of
the firft banking houses in London, He was seven
feet nipe inches in ftacure.
By a St. John's paper of the aid alt. it appears
that the Clip Eritr.nnia, from Greenock to St. An
drews, was wrecked on the 15th June, or enter
ing the bay of Paffamaquoddy. Part of thegoodt
were got out.
BALTIMORE, July 6.
ExtraH of a letter from a gentleman at Cafe
Francois, dated l-jtb June, to a merchant in
this city..
" An American armed brig mounting twelve
pieces cannon, had a smart engagement a few
deys ago with a privateer mourning fourteen
guns, the former had four men killed and the
latter fix. The brig was bearded and carried
into Gonaives."
NORFOLK, July 3.
On Sunday arrived the armed English (hips,
Portland, caprain Magill ; and Cumberland,
captain Perrin, from Liverpool, which they
left the 15th April. On the 19th June, in lat.
37, ISi long. 69, fpaktjlliip-Eliza, M'Neil, fix
days out from Charleston, to London, all well.
Yesterday arrived the schooner Favorite Elfey
captain I'itzhugh, in ten days from the Havan
na. Sailed in company with the brig Ready
Money, for Baltimore.
By this arrival- we learn, that two Spanilh
Ihips of war had left the Havanna for old Spain
about the fourth ult. with seven million of dol
lars on hoard : and that four French privateers
failed from thence on the 17th alt. to cruize to
leeward for homeward bound Jarraica veflels.
The schooner Harmony, Hacket, from Ja
maica to Norfolk, and brig Betsey, Turner,
fr. m Jamaica to Portsmouth (N. H.) are cap
tured and fint into the Havanna.
The brig Eunice, Stimpfon, is fsized and con
demned there for having seven thousand dollars
on board.
ExtraS of a letter received by the aboi'e "vessel,
dated Havanna, June 20.
" An express arrived to-day from the east end
of this island, and brings news of the arrival
there of fifteen hundred negioes, from St. Do
mingo, and the whole of them armed ; as yet
we cannot find out the cause of theii arrival, or
from what part of that island."
Artillery Blues.
THE Company are notified to afiemble at the
Summer Circus, on Tuesday afternoon, at 5 o'
clock. New members to be ele&ed.
Ju'r 9-
DESERTED,
From a detachment of men, fiationed at Spring
Garden, under the command of Ensign George
W.Stall. July 1 ft. Isaac Bayiey, 5 f«et 7 inches
"Jgh* grey eyes, dark hair and complexion born
iu Pcnnfylvania, Chester county, 19 years old, by
trade a blaek-fmith.
July 3. Benjamin Bennet, 5 feet 6 1-2 inches
high, 18 years old, grey eyes, dark hair and com
plexion— borr in Pennsylvania, no trade.
Levi Puree, 6 feet 11 inches, black eyes, dark
nair, fair complexion, 25 years in the
lttate of Massachusetts, enliftei in New-York, no
trade.
Samuel Edfcll', 26 years old, 5 feet 10 r-2 inches,
drrk hair and complexion, born in the (late «f New
Jcrfey, (a repeated delerter) by traie a carpenter
an«i jomer.
July 5. Wiliiam Grifiel, 22 years old, brown
hair and complexion, 5 feet 7 inches, born in New-
Jersey, no trade.
Whoever apprehends the aforefaid defertersfhall
receive fifty dollars reward.or ten dollars for each,
by applyiug at Spring Garden, or any olHcer be
longing to the service of the United States with all
reasonable expencesby applying as above.
J ul y 9 diw
Philadelphia and Lancaster Turn
pike Road Company,
July 9, 1798.
AT a meeting of the President and Managers,
a Dividend ot Eight Dollars per (hare is de
clared for the last fix months, whish will be ap
p opriated agreeaMe to a refolutioa ct the Stock
holders of the lath June, 1797.
WILLIAM I'OVETT, Sec'ry. »
l u 'y 9 mtU4w
A Note Loft.
LOS r a note drawn hy Clarkfon Iff Forreft,
ih favor of the Subscriber, dated the 18th
May last atfixty days fight, for dollars 970, not
endcrfed. Any person who may have fouftd
the fame will be so obligine as to return it to,
Robert Andrews.
j u ty 7 \ eodiw
Xfre (gazette.
PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVENING, Jult 9,
Latv of the United States.
Fifth Congress of the United Stages :
AT THE second session,
Begun and hsld at the city of Philadelphia, in the
State of Pennfytvaaia, on Monday, the thir
teenth of November, one thousand seven
hundred and ninety-seven.
AN ACT
To declare the Treaties heretofore concluded
with France, no longer obligatory on the U
niterl States.
WHEREAS the Treaties concluded
between the United States and
France have been repeatedly violated on the
part of the French Government; and the !
just claims of the Uftited States for repara
tion of the injuries so committed have been
refufed, and then* attempts to negociate an
amicable adjustment of all complaints bet
ween the two nations, have been repelled
with indignity : and whereas, under autho
rity of the French Government, there is
yet pursued againtt the United States, a fyf
tcm of predatory violence, infrafting the
said treaties, and hostile to the rights of a
free and independent nation.
BE it enaSed by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of Ame ■
rica, in Congrefi affemlled, That the U
nitsd States are of right freed and exonera
ted fiom the stipulations of the Treaties, and
of the Consular Convention, heretofore con
eluded between the United States and
France ; and that the fame lhall not hence*
forth be regarded as legally obligatory on
the government or citizens of the United
States.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of ReprefentativA.
THEODORE SEDGWICK,
President of the Senate, pro tempore.
Approved, July 7, 1798.
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States.
Deposited among the Rolls in the Office of
the Secretary of State.
Timothy Pickering,
Secretary of State.
We have the fatisfadHon to announce to our rea
ders that the Delaware sloop of war, capt. Decatur,
(who-only went out to sea on Friday) on Saturday
evening captured a French privateer schooner of it
guns and 70 men, close in with Egg-Harbour, and
last evening the prize was brought to Fort Mifflin.
Captain Decatur left his ftip at New-Castle, and
brought this intelligence to town. Capt. D. after
he got to sea on Saturday morning, met with the
Ihip Alexander Hamilton, from New-York to Bal
timore, the captain of which informed him that he
had been Dlundered by a French privateer, and gave
him directions what course he had fleered. Capt.
p. immediately went infcarch of her, and soon got
in fight of fcur fch.oners; but not knowing which
waj the armed schooner that he had received infor
mation of, he thought it best to stand off as if he
were a merchantman and alarmed at what might
be armed veflels.
The manoeuvre had the intended effeA, for the
armed schooner gave her chace, until Ihe discovered
the Delaware to be a vessel of force, when file at
tempted to iheer "if and get in land (where flie
supposed (he ihould be life, taking the Delaware
for an Engliih vessel of war) but'lhe was obliged
to surrender after a pretty long chace to the Dela
ware, and several (hot being fnxd at her. This pri
vateer is a new vessel said to have been built at
Baltimore. She failed from Cape Francois on the
19th of June, and has been on our coaff only two
days, during which time she has captured the fliip
Liberty Capt Vredenberg, which failed a few days
from this port for Liverpool The vessel wasfent to
the Weft Indies, and the Captain and Crew of the
Liberty were put on beard a vessel bound for Bos
ton. This privateer had also taken an Enrfifli
brig. 8
General Marshall, on his route to Vir
ginia, was received at Lancaster, York,
Fredericktown, and other places, with the
liveliest demonstrations of refpeift, attention,
and approbation of. his public conduft.
Extract of a letter from a refpeflable house in
Lijbon, totbeir Correffondeni in this city, dated
May 12.
" Wethinkit neceflary toinform you, that
our Market for Grain is very encouraging, as
you will fee by the prices current wc at foot
hand you, and it is computed there is not
Wheat fuflicient in this place for two months,
and our Minillry begin to be alarmed, inso
much that on the 7th inltant, a frigate failed
from hence with presents for the Kmperor of
Morocco, to induce him to grant leave to ex
port Grain to this Country, but itisdoubtful
it such liberty will be granted, we have there
fore only to look forward to your Country for
supplies."
American Wheat 720 per A.
Do Indian Cobi 460 cwt.
Do Flour, 7200
Married, —-On Thursday evening last, by
the Rev. Mr. Abercrombie. capt. Jof. H.
Dill, of Bermuda, toMifs Ann Bickham,
of this city.
Yesterday morning, the dome or roof of the large
Circus in fifth street, gave way, and fell to the
ground between the walls of the building.
MR. FENNELL.
In addition to the elegant epistle to the youth
of this city, this justly celebrated orator will,
this evening, read Mr. Hopkinfon's adclrcfs to
Ihe members of M'Pherfen's Blues, on the an
niversary of our independence. Talents so bril
liant as those of Mr. Fennel!, when exercised in
a way so ufefiil, rleferve the approbation and
support of every citizen. W ar mly a;cached to
the cause s>f liberty, and brave-iy intending to
risque his life in its defence, Mr. Fennell has en
rolled himfelf in the elegant corpj of Grena
diers lately raiftd in this city. As an auther,
. v
■ h? is well known; as a soldier* lie,
will be equally refpedtable* But, with talent*
To brilliant, with palriofifm so Mr. Feb
npll js not eojd«wed with the gift* of fortune t
i i this r Jped only he requires the aid of his
fcllpw-qitiaens.and soldiers. Here an flppdrtil-r
nity is offered to the generous, at once to re*
ce.ye pleiiiire and reward merit. To the cofpi
of Grenadiers and Blues,, this opportunity Wi'l
be particularly gratifying. They, with tnafcV
of their fellow-citizens, will, no cjoiibt, take ad
vantage of it, and ihu/evince their approbation
of the co dudlj and their refpeci for the talenti
of this gentleman. A BLUE*
" Fabricius," No. V. to-morrow.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED.
Sloop Nancy, Hall, Boflon it
Mary Ann, Clark, Norfolk 4
CLEARED.
Ship Clotliier, Gardner Liverpool
The ship Deborah, capt. Yard, has arrived at the
Fort from jeremie.
Arrived at the Fort, the Britilh Letter of Marqtia
General Keppel, of 18 guns, from Martinique.
Extract: of a letter from a gentleman on board the
fcHoonerHawk, Carhar , from Cape Francois.
Fort Mifflin, july sth, 1798.
" While I was in C. Francois the capt of th«
Brunfwick arrived with a flag of truce, and I be
lieve the French general thought it was fur the pur
pol'e of evacuating the Mole, but he was not long
left in this plcafing delirium ; imtead of '* Props-
Ctions" for evacuating the Woje, they wer; fqr
an exchange of prisoners: how great mud have
been his surprize ? and this was ,he bulineis of the
firft aid de iamp and officer ef the frigate ; and if
the gentleman who wrote the letter in the Phila
delphia Gazette had attended a little more to the
truth of the circumstances, he could not have as»
fured his Philadelphia that the Mole would
be evacuated before eight lavs.
" I left the Gape the 18th of I une, and was (hort
ly after taken on board the ship Brunfwick, (with
the captain of tie velfel in which I was a passenger)
and detained for 4 hours, during which time I n:en
tioned the report that was in circulation at the
Cape to the captain, who informed me. that so far
from giving up the Mole,-hey have been putting it
in a stronger state of defence than it ever yet \va< ;
that they had established a dock yard, and lately re"
ceived from England upward of 60,000 i, erling
worth of malts, spars, and (lores; and the
evacuation of P. au Prince was in order to fti'iwth
en the Mole from this you may judge whether
the Mole will be so soon evacuated."
Captain Hefs of the brig Experiment,'left at
6th ult. the
Ship Harmony, Snell, Philadelphia
John, M'Neal, do
Gen. Green, Brown, R. Maud
Betsey, , Fortfmonth, N. H.
Brig Friends, Conklin, to fail about the Bth
of June for-Cayenae.
Rofanna, Archer, Salem, to fail in 3 days
Schr. Jay, Moody, Portland
, Phill'ps, Charleston
Pruflian btig A'ntionette, Guyguc, fentinto Tor
tola on her paflage from hence to St. homas, is li
berated,and Cncearrived at her destination.
Ship Star, with 5 vessels under her convoy, from
Norfolk, ha* arrived at Jamaica ; also the Ichoon
er Hope, Foster, from hence, after being plundered
by a French privateer.
Brig , Puchardfon, arrived at St. Kitts, from
Norfolk, the 27th of May.
From capt. Lemmon.of the brig Gen.Keppel,left at
Martinico the 19th ult.
Ships Nancy of Bolton ; Rambler, of Charleston,
sent in from Surinam, on suspicion of being French
property.
Brig Polly, , Boftoa
Dolly, , do
Hcjty, , o. and several others
Jwie 2.5 th, coming through the Mona passage,
fell In with a French privateer and a American
brig, gave chare to the former, but finding her at
too great a distance to come up with before dark,
hauled our wind for the brig, fuppoDng her to be a
prize to the fchr. shortly after the ship Brunfwick,
of London, kove in fight, and boarded the brig, at
the fame time informed me that (he was the Henry
of New York, under her prote&ion, bound to Ja
maica.
Capt. Lemraon also informs, that previous to hi®
faiiing a Cartel atrived from Guadaloupe, with 2S
prisoners of war, master. and mates, who were ex
changed at the rate of three Frenchmen for one.
Englilhmcn of the fame rank ; aecounts received by
the Careel dated that Vidlor Hughes had iffned a
proclamation, authorizing and infiru&ing the cap
tains of his privateers that might fall in with any
American armed vessels to distress them as much as
poflible, and if they offered any refiftanc« to show
them no quarter, and that it was ftnmgiy reported
that a number of brivs and schooners from 14 to iS
guns each, were fitting out, and failing every day
for the purpose of intercepting American vessels on
their own coast.
The Delaware and Ganges sloops of war, were to
the southward of the Capes on Saturday la ft.
The (hip Arethufa, Woods, from, hence,
has arrived at Cork, in 24 days.
Ship Old Tom, M'Keever, ditto, at Lon
donderry, in a (liort pallage.
Schr. Dispatch, Barry, ditto, at Dublin.
The Lovina, Brown, of this port, arrived
at Dublin the 20th April.
The Henrietta, of Wilmington (Del.)has
arrived at Dublin. On her pa (Tige was boar
ded by a French privateer; allJierletters, and
some palTengers taken out.
Danish brig Johanna, Thiefiier, and brig
Polly, Makins, from hence, have arrived at
Bremen.
# HALIF AX, N. S. June 14..
The Privateer RangerNklien taken by his
Magefty's (hip Thetis, was 011 the way to lay
within the Capes of Delaware, there to wait
the arrivalofan American Ead-India (hip that
had put into one of the Weft-India tflands,
where (he had armed—This information they
obtained from an American veflel a few days
before, and in consequence fuffered a vessel
from Barbadoes, partly laden with Rum, to
pass not chufing to weaken their force by de
tachments, as it was their intention to board
the American ship, even after she had efitered
the Delaware.
Mr. Fennell
RESPECTFULLY inform* his friend? and the
public, that hs will deliver Tf 13 EVENING
9th of July, at eight o'clock, at O'F.Jlers's H«tcl.
RECITATIONS,
CONSISTING OF
part I.—An Oration delivered by Jafeph Hopkin
fon, Esq. on the Anniversary of r.merifcan Inde
pendence. %
part 2. —A Peetic Epistle addressed to the Young
Men of Philadelphia, who firft offered their fer
viaes to their ountry.
part 3 —A Poetie Eniftle to the Fair of America,
and other fele<9 pieces.
Tickets balf a dollar each, to he had of Mr.
Fennell, at Shaw's Medicinal IVarehoufe, Chdnut
ftreet, corner oi Fcurth-ttreet.
Pennlylvania Hospital.
7th month, 9tb 9 '9B.
The Contricutors are requeiied to meet at the
Pennfplvania Hofp'tal at four o'clock this after
noon. famusl Coat a } clerk.; nds for sale by private Contract, j
I to))ofili Will be rectired, by the subscriber,
until the fitft diy of September next, tor the
jM'rchafe of any f the following very valuable
tiads of land with their improvement.
In the State ef New-York,
No. I. Two lots of ground fttuat* in the
county of Albany in the town called Lanfing
hurgh, and diftir.guifbt.l or kntAvn on a map ef
said town by the names of No. 71 and 71.
а. Two tradto of land situate in the town of
Wsfi-Chefter, the one of thein near Oliver De
lancy's, John Cox's and John Palmer's land, ad
joining Brouhs River, the other of them near
Devilard'« fnufl" mill, Dtlancy's land and ad
joining Brouh's river the whole containing about
84 acres.
}. A trafl «f land Gtuate in the county of
West-Chester, on the road from Kings-Bridge
toDelancy's Mills containing about 66$ acres.
4. A trail of land situate in Montgomery
coujity, being apart of the trail called Jelliip'fl
purcliafc and known and diftinguilhed in a divi
sion of the said purchase into townlhips by being
part of townlhip No. 4. beginning at ihe S VV.
buund. of laid purchase and at the southerly cor
ner of said township containing by estimation
bout 5611 acres.
j. A of land Gtuate in the county of
Montgomery, aforefaid, being also a part of
Jeflup's purchase and known and diftinguilhed
in divifipo of the said purchase into townlhips,
by being part of townlhip No. 31 beginning at
S. W. hounds of said townlhip at tbe distance of
161 chains and 50 links from the most southerly
corner thtreof. t
б. A tra& of land situate in Ulfler county,
being part of the trail of land known by the
name of the Great or Hardentrurghs patent, con
taining about 6000 acres.
7. A trail of land situate in the county of
Ullier aforefaid on the N. E. fide of the river
Delaware, being also a part of the land former
y granted, to Johannes Hardenburgh and others
commonly known by the name of the Green
patent it being a part df a great lot No. 1. at
the general partition of said patent which came
to the (hare of 'Thomas Newham one of the
proprietors, and is knowß and dillinguilhed on
the mass of the sub division ther«of made by
Charles Webb, surveyor in the year 1751 by
lot No. 60 ; this ;and runs some distance on the
river Delaware and contains ibont 3157 acres
8. A trail of land in the county of Ulfler a
forefaid in the south tier of Iot« in the Harden
burgh patent being the lot No. u, containing
about 1 j,6jo acres excepting there: ut 310 acres
heretofore grant by Robert R. Livingfton to
Kathaniel Sachel.
9. A trafl bf land situate in the county of Ul
ster, beginning on the Papekunk river, and ad
joining tne 14th monument in the general divi
sion of the Hardenburgh patent, containing
about 3000 acres.
10. Two equal undivided seventh parts of two
several parcels of lands situate in the townlhips
of Chemung in the county of Tioga on the S.
W. fide of Tioga river, the fame being part of
a trail of about 10,000 acres, these two feventhj
contain about 5763 ac/es.
11. One equal and undivided seventh part of
the said 20,000 acre tracl in Tioga county being
about 2,886 acre«.
i». One equal and undivided seventh part of
f|id i",ooo acre trail in Tioga county being al
ii about 2.886 acres.
In the State of Maryland.
13. A t.ail of land now called Bayley's pur
chase in Prince George's county, near to a bay
or cove called, Anocoflin core, containing about
I2ia acres ot prime land.
14. A iriil of land called Fortune Enlarged,
and part of a trait called Beall's adventure en
larged, both Iying in Prince George's county on
thteaOern branch of the Potomack, containing
about 516 acres.
15. A tracl of land witli the house and im
provement called Aron, lying on the eafterr.
branch of the river Potomack, opposite to the
city t>f Wadiii.gton in Prince GeorgeVcounty
containing about 375 atres.
16. A trail of land wtih the houses, mills,
other buildings and improvements lying near
Fort Cumberland in the county of Walhington
containing about . 2088 acres.
17. A trail of land situate in the county of
Walhington, adjoining to Fort Cumberland,
containing 4CO acres or thereabouts.
18. One undivided moiety of a trail of land
in Allefany county, called spruce spring, the
whole ot which contains about lao acres, also
one undivided moiety of 23$ trails or lots of
ground, each of which contains about 50 acrei,
and are numbered from 500 to 799 inclusive,
omitting and excepting three lots which are dif
tinguilhed by the numbers 661, 662 and 684 all
which said lands adjoin.
In the State of Virginia-
A trail of Meadow land with eonfiderable
improvements, lying onHunter's creek,Dorrell's
creek', Muddy creek and the river Fotomack ;
and adjoining the city ef Alexandria containing
by patent 295 acres
Edward Fox, auctioneer.
Philadelphia, June sth, 1798. «w
Ths'c .vgo 01 tilt -hiy Nathaniel Bayley, ct-ptain
CambeU, from Jamaica, will commence landing
TO-MORROW, at South-street Wharf.
Sugars oi Prime Quality in Hluis.
High proof Rum.
TOR SALE BY
Peter Blight.
Who also offers for Sale,
A choice parcel of ill and 4th proof Bran
dy in Pipes.
Port Wine in Pipes, Hhds. and Quarter calks
Madeira in Pipes
Old Arrack.
June 1; §lfsodti3jy
advertisement.
DESERTED from a detachment under the
command of captain Edward M'dler, fla
tioiiedat Spring Gardens.
June 3d, 1598 —John M'KilTock, born in
Ireland, county of Antrim ; 5 feet 9 inches in
height, dark hair, eyes and complexion, pock
jnarked, aged 28 years, speaks broad, lalifted
byenfign Root, at New Biunfwick, had on his
full regimentals, flole a blanket when he went
away, he is a drunkard and very affirming.
June 6th—James Crawford) born in Chefler,
State of MalTachufetts, brown hair, grey eyes,
fair 0 mplexion, five feet 1: inches in height,
aged 24 years, by trade a blacksmith, had on
hTs full regimentals and left his poll when on
sentry. ilfo,
Eliakim Stow, a ptifoner, born in Symfbury,
State of O nneilicut, aged 36 years, black hair
'dark eyes and complexion, a repeated delerter,
very afTuming, writes a tolerable hand and is ve
ry talkative. Had on regimental (hirt aad over
alls when he deferred the guard.
Whoever will apprehend the above deserters
and return them to Spring Gardens in Philadel
phia, or to any officer belonging to the United
State* or confine them in any goal and give no
tice so that they may be obtained (hall have ten
dollars reward for cither of them, or thirty tor
the three au 1 all reasonable charges paid.
EDWARD MILLER, captain
lit regiment of Infantry.
The different printersia the'union are
jfiquefled to insert the abote.
NOTICE.
JAMES GUMMING fcf Co. late of the city of
Philad«lphi., merchants, having afligned over
certain lands, book-debts, specialties, &c. &c. to
the subscriber.'», for the benefit of those creditors
who have claims against them prior to :he year
1797, that hare or (hall fubferibe the said aflign
ment within fix months from the date thereof
(28th May, 1798) Therefore,
All pcrfons who are indebted to said es
tate, for debts conira&ed before the month of
June, 1797, are hereby required to make imme
diate payment of their refpedtive accounts, to the
aflignees, at fchsir office, No. 6a, Dock street—in
failure whereof, anions will beinftituted for the
recovery o£ such debts as be not immediately dif
chargei.
John Travis,
John IVaddi gtonj £ Afiignees.
James 7ay lor, )
june 17 mwftiS
An Anchor found.
ABOUT three miles b»lo>y the Cross Ledge, a
buoy was discovered on the eaftcrn fide of
the channel, which, on being weighe.d, brought
up an anchor of about 500 wt. without a cable to
it. There is no weight ftamf ed on the anchor,
nor any mark on the buoy or anchor (lock. The
owner, by applying to the subscriber, on board
the schooner Mahala, at Levi
wharf, and paying reasonable charges and txp*n
ces, shall have it again.
ARTHUR ROBBINS,
Captain of the Schooner.
N. B. The Anchor will be left with Levi Hol
lingfvvorth & Son, in conformity to the adl of the
State Legislature in such cases provided.
June 27 tawim
Millenery Room,
i; 6, Market (Ireet,
Miss CHRrSTAL,
INFORMS her friends, that she has received by
the late arrivals f rom Europe, her usual lupply
of the very Uteft fafhions in MILLENERY, &c.
with a great variety of Straw, Leghorn, and
Chip HATS and BONNfiTS, of the new eft ihapes,
which will be openod this day.
fune 11 ao
Sebastian Voigt,
CLOCK & WATCHMAKER,
INFORMS his friends and the public in gen
era!, that he has removed from No. 149, North
Second-street, to Market, between Fourth and
Fish-streets, No. 173, where he carrieson the
above business in all its various branches.
He keeps as usual a general assortment ofwar
ranted watches.
June 2? dim
FOR SALE,
A neat Coachee,
WITH Venetian blinds and glalTes, plated har
ness, all in complete «rder, and little worse than
new. —also —
A pair of gentle Bay Horses
may be had at a moderate rate.
Apply at No. 52, South Second street.
June a.i d7t
Now Opening,
AtWill 1A mM'L Aw s Saddle Manufaftory,
No. 72, Che/nut Street,
A general assortment of Horseman's
Pillols, direA from the Manufacturers in London 4
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Covers, Light
Horieman's Caps, Swgrds, Boxes, Va
lices, Saddjc Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
April 9 dtf
~ TO BE LET,
And pojjejjion given immediately,
THAT WELL KNOWN TAVERN HOUSE,
No. 333, in Front-flreet,
Near Poole's bridge—formerly the sign of the
Ewe and L^.nb.
Enquire at No. 91, North Sixth ftr«et.
June 15 §
NOTICE,'
THE Owners or Consignees of vefTels per
forming quarantine are to take notice that
a cart arrives from the Hospital at the Health-
Office at 7 o'clock and leaves it by 9 every mor
ning (Sundaysexcepted) such fuppliesas are to
be forwarded to veflels are desired to be sent to
the Health Office before the hour of nine.
June 8 $
The following Certificates
OF Funded Debt an 4 Bank of United States
Stoclc, were forwarded from England per
the Counted of Leiceftur Packet, in the llth
month, 1797, which veflel has been captured,
and the Certificates supposed tob«? loft.
4000 dollars per cent. Stock, standing on the
books of the Treasury, in the name of Bird Savage
and Bird Certificate no 189, dated July 19th, '96.
Ten Shares Stock of the Bank of United State?
in the name of Miller, Hart & Co. of London,
in one Certificate, No. 26067, dated the ift day
of January, 1707
For the renewal of which certificates, applica
tion is intended to be made at the Office of the
Treasury of the United States, and at tho Bank of
United States ; of which all persons interested
therein, are desired to take notice.
JOHN WARDER.
Philadelphia, 5 me. 26, 1798.
2aw^m
LOST,
&V THE FOURTH INSTANT.
A NO I E OF HAND, George Pennock, to
J. Dorfey, and S M. Fox, which fell due
on that day and was duly paid. The Bank receipt
is on it, therefore it is useless to any other than the
owner. The parties will b« oblige to any person
who ffiall Kturn it.
June 8 3taw3W
Brown Stout.
50 casks BROWN STOUT, of 6 and 7 doz.ecch,
Just received per capt Joyce, and for sale by
Benjamin IV. Morris.
likewise,
200 casts CLARET, of the very firft quality.
June 9. mw3ht
Ephraim Clark,
CLOCK & WATCHMAKER,
Corner of Front and Market Street.
WHERE he is just opening a very extensive
supply of clock dials, catl brass, bells, for
ged work and pinions, pumice stone and emery,
flieet br-fs, hai d and bench-vices, witch and cloc
plyers, large and small files, (hoe asd knee chapes,
chains, seals and keys, gold, gilt aadfilver watch
es, spring and weight clocks,
june 1 z tuScstf
This Day is Published,
ANDrORSALEBYJ.FENNQ, I iq,CHESNUT-P REIT
AN ADDRESS
To the People of Maryland,
ON the origin, progress and pretest state of
French aggreflion, with a {ketch of the infamous
attempts to degrade the Government of the United
State*, and some refleclions on the late proceedings
in Congress; written the last of April in the pre
sent year, by a Member of the Houl'e of Represen
tatives. § june 11
LANDING,
At South Street wharf, the cargo of the fliip Con
necticut, from Batavia—
About 300 tons of Java Coffee,
of th gi owth of 1794 and 1795
60 tons of Java Sugar,
In cannifters—for sale by
FETER BLIGHT,
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SALE,
150 hhds. choice Jamaica Sugars
Jamaica rum in hhds
Brandy Ift and 4th proof in pipes, hhds.
and quarter calks
Madeira in pipes
Old Batavia Arraek
july a *
TO BE SOLl>, ~
4°>.939 acres °f Land.
IN Greene County, Commonwealth of Pennsyl
vania, on the waters of Fish and Wheeling
Creeks and Ten Mile Run.
Thcfe Lands are fettile and well timbered, and
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten years ago for
five (hillings per acre ; patented early in 1787, ex
cept 370" acres, which were patented in 1792;
part of them were surveyed in 1783. The trail
is between the Ohio and Monongahela, very con
venient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of Washington, from 14 to 16 from the
village of Greenefburgh and Wheeling.
OA payment of one fourth of thepurchafe mo
ney, a reasonable credit will be given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april 21. §
TO BE SOLD, ~7
26,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of New York, between tke northern
bounds of Pennsylvania and the Sufquehanna
now, or late in the townships of Hamden and
Warren and county of Warren.
These Lands, their quality and situation,
are a very desirable obje& for any man who means
to invest his money to advantage.
Oo payment of one third of the purchase mo
ney, a reasonable credit will be given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april 2 T.
Canal Lottery, No. 11.
Considerably more than Half Drawn.
Draws twice a week, every Monday iff Tuesday
For Sale, Seven Dollars each, at
WILLIAM BLACKBURN'S Lottery
and Brokers office, No. 64 South Second-street,
where cheek books are kept for examination zind
regift'ering in this, City of Washington No. 2.
and Pater fan Lotteiies and information where
Tickets may be had in most of the Lotteries au
thorised by law in any of the States #f the
Union.
State of the Wheel*
One prize of 10,000 dollars 10,000
Five 4,00© 20,000
Two 2,000 4,000
Nine i,oco 9,000
Nineteen 500 9 50©
Forty-four 200 8,800
With a full proportion of the one hundred
and of the fifty dollar prizes —the price of tick
ets will soon rife, particularly on account of the
five 4,000 dollar prizes that remain in the wheel
until the last day of drawing.
€? Note, the business of a Broker duly ae
tended to inall its branches at the above offict
may 24 w&stf
Wants a Place,
A young man, to attend in a Public House, or
aflift in a Porter Celler—one who can be well re
commended. A line dir#6led to J. B. and left with
the Printer will be attended to.
July 3.
FOR SALE.
A THREE Story Brick House, on the north
fide of Sprtice-ftreet near Second-street,
idjoining the wall of Mr. Joneses garden and
formerly occupied by David Lenox, efq. —This
house is incompleat repair with back buildings,
confiding of a Piazza, Kitchen and a hindfome
Dining Room over the Kitchen.
As any Person inclined to purchase will view
the premifes,a more particular description iscon
fidered unneeeflary.
The terms of payment will be one third cash,
one third in 6 months and the remainder in ,12
months with interest. For further information,
Enquire of JOHN CR AIG,
No. 11 Dock-fir eet.
may 16 $
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT Proposals will be received for a Colleg
er of the ;'oorTaxof the present year for
tha City of Philadelphia—one for the Northern
Liberties and one for the DiftricSl of Southwark,
who will be requtred to give such security as fhali
be approved of by the Board of Guardians.
Any person desirous of having either of the
above appointments is requested to bring for
ward the names of his securities on or before
Wednesday next the 27th inft. to
Edward Shoemaker,
127 Market-street.
jnne 21. daw
JUST RECEIVED,
By the Adriana from London,
And for sale at this Office.
A few copies, in French, of a werk entitled,—
! " Hiftoire de I'adniiniftration des finances de la Re
publique Francaife, pend nt l'annee 1796. Par
Sir Francis d'lvcrnois."
Mo,
A few copies of another produilion of the
fame writer, entitled,
" Tableau hiUoiique et politique de Padminif
tration de la Republique Francaife pendant Pannee
1797, des causes quiont amene la Revolution du
4 Septembre, et de fes Refultats."
june 25
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, proposing to contra# hii bust
ness, offers this Estate for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Borcing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of stones ; also a good Forge, all
in perfect repair, as are all the Water Works conneft
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built for the purpose of casting Cannon
for this State. —There are abou' two thousand acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood, theother
very fine'arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Pasture. The Cannon lately mannfadlnred there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
superior to any in this country, and probably, eqaal
to any in the world ; for not one of £>uy-nine guns
lately made, although some of the 24 were bored
into 32 pounders, have failed on proving. The situ
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufacture, and a place of arms lying in the (late
of Conne£ticut,and only 30 miles from feveralland*
ings on the Hudson's river, an»l having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water ifluing
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which maybe converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchafcr can beaccommodat
ed with all the stock and utenlils, and have poffefiion
on or before the firft of June next, and preparation
may be madein the meantime for goinginto tJlaftim
mcdiately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, Sec. £cc. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, fefq.one of the lleprefentat-ives
in Congress for thisStaie ; Mr, David Waterman, on
thepremcfes, ortothepropnciorin New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON
Dee. 1. 3awtf
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
JUXE 17, 179§-
N OTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, That by vir
tue of an ail, paffedduring the present ftf
Hon t>f Congress, so much of the a3 entitule< :
" An A& making further provision forthefup
" port of public credit, and for the redemption
" of the public debt'*—pafled the third day ot
March, one thousand seven hundred and ninety
five, as bars from fettlcment or allowance.
Certificates, commonly called Loan Office and
final fettlcment Certificates, and Indents of In
terests, is suspended until the twelfth day of
June, which will be in the year one thousand seven
hundred and ninety nir.2.
That on the liquidation and settlement of the
said Certificates, and Indents of Interest, at the
Treasury, the Creditors will be entitled to receive
Certificates of funded Cent. Stock equal
to the amount of the said Indents, and the arrear
ages of interest due on their said Certificates, prior
to the firfl day of January one thousand seven
hundred and ninety one.
That the principal furasof the Cud Loan Office
and final settlement Certificates, with the intcreft
thereon, since the'firft day ot January, one thou
sand seven hundred and ninety one. will be dis
charged after liquidation at the Treasury, by the
payment of interest and reimburforr.ent of princi
pal, equal to the sums which would have been
payable thereon, if the said Certificates had been
fubferibed, pursuant to the A«sls making provision
for the debts of the United States, contracted dur
ing the late war, and by the payment of other
sums, equal to the market value of the remaining
Stock, which would have been created by fucn
fubferiptions asaforefaid, which market value will
be determined by the Comptroller of rheTreafury.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary oj tbe Treasury.
June 28 iawtf
Philadelphia, June 30th, 1798.
Public Notice is Hereby Given,
pUKSUANT to the a£l of Congreft, patted
on the 12J1 day of June 1798, entitled,
" an a6l refpeeling Loan Office and final settle
ment certificates. Indents of interest, and the
unfunded or rtgiftered debt credited in the
books of the Treasury."
1 ft. That on the application of the creditors
refpe&ively, or their legal attornies at any time
after the last day of December in the present
year, the princi al sums of the unfunded or re- j
giftered debt of the United States credited on
the books of the treasury, or coinmiflioners of
Loans will be reimbursed at the trealury of the
United State*.
2d That interest upon the unfunded or re
gistered debts as refaiil will cease from and af
ter the last day of December in the present year.
3d. That the creditors refpetfively will be
entitled on requisition to receive from the pro
per officers of th* treasury, certificates f fund
ed three per cent stock, equal to the arrearages
of Interest due on the debts aforefaid prior to
the firft day of January, one thonfand seven hun
dred and ninety one.
By order of the Board of Comm\ffioners
of tbe Sinking Fund,
Edward Jones, see'ry.
June 30 lawtf
Public Notice is hereby given,
That proposals w 11 be received at the office J
of the Secretary of the Trealury for flip- j
plying the Unfttd States with a number not
exceeding Forty thousand Hands of arras,
on the following conditions.
ift. The arm- (hall be manufactured in the
United States, conformable to the Charleville
pattern ; the barrels (hall be prpved, and the
muskets infpefled agreeable to the rules flow
pra<flifed and required by the United States
the Locks ftuil be duly hardened; the Ramrods
and Bayonets lhall be tempered and the mount
ings, stocks, and every other particular shall be
finifhed in a workman like manner.
2d. The proposals mull fpecify the number
which the party is willing to furnifh and the time
or times of delivery—One fourth of the pro
posed number must be delivered in fix months,
one fourth in twelve months, and the remainder
in eighteen months from the time of signing the
contrails ; the public will not be considered as
bound to receive any arms, which are not ready
for delivery within the times propoitd.
3d. For every stand of arms, with Bayonet
and Ramrod complete as aforefaid, the United
States will allow thirteen dollars and fort) cents.
4th. Wken practicable and confident with
existing arrangements, seasoned stocks will be
delivered from the public stores in Philadelphia
to contractors, at the rate of twenty-five cents
each.
sth. The arms will be received in the respec
tive states at p)ace£ to be hereafter
The United States shall not be bound to prove
less than five hundred barrels at one time, unless
the barrels are tranfportcd to some public facto
ry or deposit of arms, i.i which cafe any num
ber not iefs than one hundred will be proved.
6th. The parties contracting w'U be required
to give bdnds with sureties for fulfilling their en
gagements ; No money will he advanced unless
mdifputable testimonials of (kill \ and ability to
execute the proposed contratfls are produced
nor in cases where proposals are madefor a lels
number than one thousand funds of arms; the
right of judging of the expediency of making
advances of money isabfolurely reserved.
7th. Unt 1 contrails are made for supplying
forty thousand (lands of arms, the sum of thir
teen dollars and forty cents will be paid at the
Treasury for every complete stand of artas man
ufactured in the United States and which may
be delivered in parcels of not less than twenty
into the public arsenals, already br hereafter to
be established. Those who propose to deliver
arms must however indicate their intentions sea
sonably tQ the office of the Secretary ©f the
Treasury.
For tbe Secretary of the Treasury,
John Steele, comptroller.
Treasury Department )
June 22c/, I7qß S 2lwtf
FOR SALE,
Two three story Briek Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. fituateon
Water street, between Mulberry and SafTafras
Street?, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
have the convenience of a public alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and area very defirablefit
uation for a a merchant, flour fa«flor, or others
who may have occasion for storage of goods.
This property will be fold on very reasonable
erms for cafli. For further information apply
to the printer. April 5 ra&Wtf
NOTICE.
JILL Persons bavingany claim or demand a
gainjl tbe Eflate of As she ton Humphreys late
of this city, Efq deceased } and avho have not
rendered their accounts, are requefied to render
them immediately ; and all those <ivbo are indebt
ed to tbs said efiate or to the late firm of Afsbe
ton and James Humphreys, are rzquejled to pay
their refpeclive accounts to
James Humphreys, jut.
adminiflrator.
June 14 %cwj\m
Bank of North America,
June 30th t 179 -
AT a meeting of the Directors, it wa agreed
to declare a Dividend of Six per Cent :
or the half year ending this day—which will
be paid to the Stockholders or their legal Re
presentatives at any time after the tenth day of
Juiy. By order of the Board,
V JOHN MXON, Prefidcnt.
June 30 dtujy
NOTICE —That the'firft: Tues
day of Auguli next, is appointed for the
hearing before a Court of Common Pleas, of Al
legheny county, in the State of Pennsylvania, on
an application for the benefit of the a&s of thi#
State, providing for the relief of insolvent debt
ors, having at June term left presented my peti
tion, with a fchepule annexed, of all my estate*
real, personal, and mixed, rights, and credits, to
be afligned for the use of my creditors.
WILLIAM WUSTHOFF.
jane 30.
Treasury Department,
March 19, 1798.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
' I 'HATpropofals will be recsived at the Office of
X the Secretary of the Treasury until ths expi
ration of the i;th day of July next ensuing, for
the supply of all rations which may be required 1
for the use of the United States, fromthe firli day of
Odtober 1798, to the thirtieth day of September
1799, both days inclusive, at the ,» ices and withia
the diftridt hereafter mentioned, viz. At Ofwego ;
at Niagara ; at Prefquc Isle ; at Michilimackinac ;
at Fort Franklin ;at Pittsburgh ;at Le Bcuf; at
Cincinnati; at Greenville; at Picque Tov/n and
Lcramie's Store; at Fort Wayne; at Fort Defi
ance ; at auy place below Fort Defiance on the Mi
imi River to Lake Erie ; at Fort Knox and Oua
tanon on the River Wabafh; at Malfae; at any
place or places on theeaft fide of the River Miffil
fippi above the mouth of tiie River Ohio, and up
on the Illinois River ; ar any place or places on the
eafl fide of the Miftiffippi River bciow the mouth
ol the River Ohio to the fouthcrn boundary of the
State of Kentucky, and within the said Stat* ; at
Knoxville, Tellico Block House, and at all other
Posts in tfce State of Tennessee; at any place or
places cn theeaft fide of the River Miffiflippi*be
low the fouthcrn boundary of the State of Tennes
see, to thefouthera boundary of the United States,
If supplies shall be required, lor any posts or
places not mentioned in this notice,all fuchfupplies
shall be furnifhed at prices proportioned to thole to
the posts before recited, asmay be agreed on be
tween the United States and the contrador.
The rations to be supplied to confitt of th" fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour
One pound of beef or twelve ounces of pork
or bacon
Half a jill ot rum, brandy or whif-*^
ky, one quart of Salt* two quarts. | , e . r .
of vinegar, two pounds of soap, (' u " r3
one poun-J of candles J 1 a 10ns
The rations are to be furnifhed in such quantities,
as that there shall at all times during the laid term*
be fufficient for the conivmption of the troops at
Michilimackinac, Detroit, Niagara, and Ofwego,
for the term of fix months in advance, and at each
of the other posts, for the term of at least three
months in advance, in good and wholesome provij
fions, if the fame shall be required. It is to be un
derllood, that the contractor is to be at the ex
p-nce and rifle of ififuing the fuppliesto the troops
at each post, and that all losses faftained by the de
predations of an enemy, or by means of the
troops of the United States, (hall be paid for at
the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on
the depofitionsof two or more persons of credita
ble characters, andthe certificate of a commission
ed officer, ascertaining the cir'cuoaftances of the
lofsand the amount of the articles for whioh com
penfuion (hall be claimed.
The privilege is refervadto the Unit*4
of requiring that none of the fuppließ which may
be furnifhed under the proposed contract, ihall be
issued, until the supplies which have or may be
furnifhed under the contrail: now in force hare
been consumed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
v march 17. 2awtiijy
Mills, Portage, &c.
TO BE LEASED FOR A TERM OF TEARS
TO be leafed, for a term not less than three,
nor more than seven years, a V ALVJABLE
PROPERTY* at the Seneca-Falls, in the county of
Onondago, and state of New-York, on the Banks'
of the Seneca-river, twojmi'es.weft.of the Cayuga
ferry, and eleven miles east of Geneva.
This eftablithment consists of an excellent grift
mill, saw mill, dwelling house, barn, and a port
age or carrying place, with between thirty and
forty acres of land s Onder good improvement, and
as much more in the vicinity, as maybe required
for future improvement.
The grill mill is a handsome, new and well finj
ifhed building, of 50 by 30 feet; 3 stories high
ami furnifhed with a run of excellent Burr stones
and another of Efopus* (tones, of the belt quality
—and the moil approved boalts, &c- calculated to
make all the different qualities of flour for expor
tation or for home consumption : It is accessible by
water from every part of the Cayuga lake and Se
neca-river, as well as from the Seneca-lake—and
fromitsfituation,Vcommands a verycxKnfive and
encreafing custom : The flream on which it stands,
being the cutlet of the Seneca-lake, the mill cau
never be in want of water ; and as it has been kept
working during the fevcreft season of the lalt win
ter, it is not liable to be impeded by froft :
The saw millis also new, situated on the fame
flream, now furnifhed with an ample stock of
logs, of which a supply may at all times be pro
cured by land or water, of the belt quality:
The dwelling house is well calculated fcr the use
of the miller, is new, and fufSciently laige : The
barn i« about 40 feet square, and entirely new :
The portage is 3*4ths of a mile in length, along
the Seneca-falls—over which were pafied in the
last year, nearly two hundred boats with their
contents; this objeit is already productive of a
handsome income, which must be incrcafing andL
permanent :
Among the many advantages of thisfituation,.
must be numbered the fertility of thei'urrousding
country —being the beit improved part of the coun
ty of Onondaga—the concentration of inter—
course by land and water, the Geneffee ftateroad'.
passing through it, as well as all water carriage to
Geneva, and the counties of Ontario and Steuben
which renders it a most eligible stand for a Store or
Tavern—The river and lakes abound ia filh and
fowl, and the country with deer ahd other game-
Eefides the mills already ere&ed at this place, itr
is calculated for any additional water works that
may be found necefiary—Fulling mill, baik mill,,
tannery, forges, &c. maybe ere £lcd at a small ex
pend —Iron ore may be brought in boats Irom the-
Cayuga lake ; and it is thought to abound in the
neighborhood.
The stock on hand w'll be fold to the lefTee, and
the canle, utensils, smith's forge, See. may be fold
or let the prcmifes.
If apurchafe (hould offer for the whole or an
undivided part of the premises it willbe fold.
For terms of sale or lease, apply to mr. WrL
hrlmus Mynderse, at the Seneca falls, or to the
fubferiber, at Schene&ady.
STEPHEN N. BAYARD,
june *5 2aw2ra
President's Messages to Congress
THJS£of thesth, lUhand aift ofjuneinft
alio of the 3d April, and 4th ol May hit, maybe
. had at t'w Qffic« of thi Jtdirar.