tfte o>t(ttto 9 and Philadelphia Daily Acfaertiseh
Nvmber 1776.J
Cj* IF Mr. Charles William Klemeke,
Formerly of London, and who left England s»r
some part of the United "tates of America, in
the year 1796, be living, and will apply perfoh
ally or by letter, to Mr. John Carrere, in Balti
more, nr to MefTrs. Ifaae Ha/lchurlt and ion,
in Philadelphia, he may hear of something great
ly to his advantage. Any information rel'pcit
ing the said Mr. Charles William Klemeke,
would be thankfully received.
may 19 djw
Ibe Subscribers
HAVE FOR SALE,
Six Tons of Cordage,
ASSORTS D
Two hundred weight of firlt fort Isinglass.
Philips, Cramond & Co.
■"*7 -8 jt
Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries,
of the newest and moil approved patterns, entitled
to the drawback 'ju» received,
AN® FOR 9A LP BY
Me*. J. Miller Co.
No. 64, South Front street.
may iB. $
~ WANTED,
IN A PLEASANT S'LWVTION,
WITHIN a few miles of Towq|(for a Lady, late
ly from England) Board and Lodging, in u quiet
imputable family—would engage for five or fix
months, ana give very little trouble A line di
rected to J. S. and left at the Printing Oflice will
be attended to immediately.
may 18 »3t
' TO BE .SOLD,
40,959 acres of Land.
IN Greene C ounty, Commonwealth of Pennsyl
vania, on the waters of Fi£h and Wheeling
Creeks and Ten Mile Ran.
These Lands arc fertile and well timbered, and
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten years ago for
five shilling* per acre ; patented early in 1787, ex
cept 370 c acres, which were patented in 1791;
part of them were surveyed in 178 u The traA
is between the Ohio and Monongahela. very con
venient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of Washington, from 14 to 16 from the
▼illaga of Greenefturgh and Wheeling.
On payment of one tourth'of thepurchafe mo
ney, a rcafonabk credit will be given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer*
april at. $
TO BE SOLD,
2,6,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of New York, between the northern
bounds of Pennsylvania and the Sufquehanna -
How, or late in the townships of Hamden and j
Warreu and county of Warren.
These Lands, l r om th ir quality and situation,
are a very desirable obje<ft for any man who means '
to invest his money to advantage.
On payment of one third of the pnrchafe mo
ney, a reasonable credit will <e given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Prinjer.
aprilaT. §
A few boxes of Umbrellas
To be Sold cheap—r by
Morduai Lewis.
may tj daw
Military Colours.
At C. GULLAGER's
Portrait and Ornamental Painting Rooms,
Nr. JO, South Fourth, next to Chefnut street,
oppolite the Friends' Meeting.
PAINTING on silks for Military and other or
namental purpose? (in a manner peculiar to
himfelf) durable, not to be injured by the weather,
which for elegance of deOgn, truth and beauty of
colouring, neatneft and masterly execution, has
not been equalled by George Rutter and Co.
FLAGS and DRUMS
Furnished with all j*lßble dispatch, on themoft
reasonable terms.
Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck
ets, Cornices, &c, &c. executed in stile (not that
superb stile of modern elegance peculiar to G. R.)
but in a workman like manner, peculiar to an ar
tist master of his prot'efiion.
Mr. Gullager, from a number of year's expe
rience in Europe and country, flatters himfelf
that profeflional talents, pun&aality, and reason
able demands, will inert the entire approbation of
those gentlemen who Viiil please to call at his Paint
ng Rooms. £6w may 5.
NOTICE.
P. S. Gentlemen in town and
country, wishing for a supply of Colours and
Drums, painted in a masterly manner, will no
doubt feel themf«lve9 obliged for the kind cau ion
given by George Rutter and Co. not to trust felf
flattering advertisements, but examine the work
executed by both parties -One view will fatif
fy them where the superiority lies, —save thefpoil
ing of good silks by George Rutter's pencil—and
discover the requisites for the contracting talents
of fcfenry Frailey, at Germantown may 10.
This Day PubliJhed;
By J. 0 x m it 0 d,
No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, (price 25 cents).
A SERMON Preached in Christ Church and
St. Peter's, Philadelphia ; on
May 9, being the day appointed by
the President as a day of fafting, humiliation
and prayer, throughout the United States of
North America. By James Abercrombie, a.m.
one of the afliftant ministers of Christ Church
and St. Peter's.
%* A sermon delivered by the Rev. Doc.
Green, on the fame occasion, will be published
on Monday next.
raay 18 3!
LANDING,
From onboard the (hip Elizabeth, captain Paiflie,
from Batavia,
And FOR SALE by the Subscriber,
400,000 wt. Java COFFEE
300 canisters SUGAR, of a superior quality
ALSO,
quantity of SAP AN WOOD
JOHN MILLER, jun.
April 17. §
GOODS
Forwarded to BALTIMORE,
cv«a LAND
Via Elkton, oa reasonable terms—by
Levi Hcllingftvorlb Isf Son.
14 eod6t
PHIL A DELPHI A: MONDAY EVENING, MAT 21, 1798.
For Sale, or Charter,
THE ARMED SHIP
i BEL VID E R
u Jonathan Reynolds, Majltr,
L YIN G at Jefleand Robert Wa'n's
wharf, burthen 156 tons, built at
New-York, by Mr. Cheefeman in of live
oak, cedar and locufl—was completely coppered in
London last year with 18 ounce hard rolled navy
copper, and copper bolted. She is well known to
be a staunch and faft failing {hip, i« •.veil found—
mounts ten carriage guns and may be sent to feain
a few iays at a very little expepce. For terms of
charter or price on a liberal credit, apply on board
to capt. Reynold's or at the Merchant's Col Te
e to
RICHARD D. ARB EH,
WHO HAS FOR SALE ON BOARD SAID EHI»P
10 Tons dry white lead
5 Tons of shot
13 Tonsrolle.} flieet lead
ao Bales English Duck, alTorted numbers
10 Tons whiting
may 19 §
JUST ARRIVED,
In the brigGayofo, capt. Bingham, from St. Martins
A quantity of SALT,
of an exccellent quality
A few groce Porter Bcttlds, new
Aud twenty Caiks Vinegar
Also, FOR SALE,
Enquire of
Jehu Hollingfworth Co.
No. Z2, Little Water street, South,
april »o. §
FOR SALE,
to? dn^bMwo} Havannah Sugar
aoo Hides
Will be landed to morrow, at Willing*and Fran
cis's wharf, from on board the brig Adlive, Will
iam Williams, master.
r j|&^l|^Th e faidßrigforlale,
And may take in immedi
ately after discharged.
Apply to
Jehu HiHingf<wortb iff Co.
march
I For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
195 caiks of nails alTorted
to bales of fail eanvafs, from No. 1 to 8
53 calks yellow ochre
15 tierces bottled porter, 6to 14 doz each
London particular ) Mt^;ra wineß
India market )
Teneriffedo. in ho|iheadsand pipes
Old Port do. in hhds.
Empty Cliret bottles
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Mudinets &c.
afTorted for the Weft-India market
4, 10, and 9 inch cablesand 10 coils of cordege
Writing fiates, ink stands and prefles
ao purcheon9 Jamaica rum
X bale seaming twine
160 bundles ftieathing paper
A MAZ 0 N,
For Sale, or Charter.
Nicilin (3* Griffith.
April 7 tuth&f.tf
THIRTY DOLLARS REWARD.
Stolen Lajl Night,
OUT of the pasture of the Subferiber, living
in Dai by, Delaware county, a Bay Horle
about sixteen hands high, fix years old this
spring, (hod before, thin main and switch tail, 1
a small star in his forehead, hind feet white, has j
a remakable fear on his near (houlder occasioned i
by a scald or burn, on which the hair is thin and I
short, he carries well* trots and canters, is ipt
to start when rode.* Whoever takes up said
horse and thief, shall have the above reward, or
fiftcvn dollars for the horse only and jreafonable
charge*. Nathaniel Neiulin.
sth month, 17 eod3t
Military Colours,
PAINTED ON SlLK—by
George Rutter Sj? Co.
Portrait and Ornamental Painters,
IN a stile which will endure the hardlhips of the
weather without injury, and wh'ch for neatness
and exa<stitude of colouring cannot be surpassed in
this city. i
FLAGS and DRUMS
Furnilhed with dispatch, en the moll moderate
terms.
Portraits, Ornamental Paintings, Signs,
fire-buckets, See. accompliftied in that superb stile
of modern elegance, which, Mr. Rntter pledges
himfelf from 20 years experience iu this city will !
meet the entire approbation of his friends and the
public.
In the Military Line,
A variety of specimen's may be seen at their
Painting Room, Norris'sCourt, back of the Naw
Library.
may 3 d6w
" 1 NOTICE.
HAVING observed an advertifemert of C.
in terms derogatory of our pro
feflional abilities, we have to request the public
not to be imposed upon by foreign artists ; but to
decide.upon the merits of each by a comparison ol ,
the work executed by both, as it is a mode almost
universally adopted by-them to invalidate the ta- ,
lents of eftabliftied artists, with a view of deceiv- ]
ing the public, and engrofling that business which
their profeflional knowledge in no wife entitles ,
them to. Well knowing that public opinion must
govern, we flatter ouri'elves that th* work execut* j
cd by us will convince them of our great superio
rity over Mr. Gullager in every branch of par- j
trait and ornamental painting, and shew the neces
sity of judging for themselves.
N. B. In futnre no attention will be paid to th»
felf-flattering advertisements of Mr G. '
Any pcrfon wishing a supply of FLAGS and '
DRUMS will please apply to Geo. Rutter and 1
Co. Norm' Court, cr Hexry Fra'iley, GcrtnaE (
town. §6w may 8. (
sOU SALS, '
A Black Man, ,
WHO has five years and a half to serve, is a j
good coachman, an excellent waiter, and 1
has been accustomed to marketing for a family— '
his age about thifty two years. For fu-ther parti- '
cuiars, apply at the oflire *f this Ga2«fce. (
may 15. § 1
By John Fenno, N* il9 Chejnut Street.
CONGRESS.
, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
'5
DEBATE ON THE BILL FROM THE SENATE, AU
l's THORISIMG THE PRESIDENT TO RAISE A
at PROVISIONAL ARMY.
TC
| n TUESDAY MAY I.
(Concluded ftom Scturday't Gazette.J
Mr. Brent said, he was not in the house
i„ when the arguments of ihe gentleman from
of j Pennsylvania were delivered, and was there
d j fore only acquainted with them from the
E * comments which had been made upon them
by the two gentlemen lad up, which he con
ceived by no means overturned them.
Two queftjons naturally present themselves
tb the mind on this occaliqn the one as it
refpefls the constitutionality of the bill, and
the other as to its expediency. And it had
struck him, from the firft moment the sub
jest came before .he house, that the power
!s proposed to be placed in the hands of the
; President by this bill, was perfetHy uncon
tlitutional ; nor had hte heard any thing in
the difcuflion which could induce him to
phange his opinion. A variety of precedents
have been introduced to (hew that limilar
powers have bten given in former inllances.
But tho e precedents had no influence upon
him. If the aftß referred to Were unconsti
tutional, they still remain to be so. Error
will continue to be error however frequently
it is repeated.
Without examining whether the precedent!
which had been adduced were in point, he
would leave them, and examine the question
on its own merits as a constitutional question.
The C'onftitution fays, Congress shall have
. power to raise and support arnnes. The pow
er is as explicit, as defined as" it Could be.—
But what is the purpose ot this bill ! It is to
give to the President of the United States the
' uncontrolled.right, for fix years, to determine
whether or not an army (hall be raised. Con
gress, then, in whom alone the Constitution
has placed the power of raising armies, will
be deprived, during that time, of that power.
And it" Congress have the power ef diverting
. themselves of this right, and transferring it
for fix years, they may do it for ten years, or
tor a term equal to the existence of the Con
stitution. But he did not believe they had
the power of making this transfer.
The words in the Conftituiion, giving the
power to Congress of declaring war, are the
lame with those giving them the power of
raising an army ; yet if a prapolition was
made to transfer to the Preiidenr the right
of declaring war in certain contingencies, the
measure would at once appear so outrageous,
that it would meet with immediate oppositi
on j but the transfer of one power would not
; be more unconstitutional than the other; both
were velted with them, and wiljiout a most
fhameful direliction of duty; _th«y. could not
aiveil themselves of them.
But the gentleman from Maflfachufetts has
'supposed that this objection is removed, by
the exercise of the power being made to de
pend on certain contingencies. The thing a
mounts to the fame, the President is to raise
the army, whenever, in his opinion, immi
nent danger of an invasion exists; therefore,
the railing of it will depend upon his will, as
he alone is to determine when this danger ex
ists. And the question returns, Has Congress
a right to deprive themselves of this powef,
■ in order to give it to the President? To his
mind, there could be no proposition more e
vident than that they must themselves exer-
I cife the power.
But the gentleman from Maffachufftts has
i said, that the words of the clatifein the Con-
I ftitution which forbids individual States from
engaging in war, are as follow : " except in
cafe ot invasion, or imminent danger which
will admit of no delay." This, Mr. B. said,
was a very different thing from the present
bill. This power was a fort of felf-defence,
which was to be used in cafesof neceflity, and
of which we cannot divert ourselves, in cases
where theaflillanceof the United States could
not be obtained. This power could not be
abused, as no particular interell could arise ]
from the employment ofit. There lyas, there- i
fore, no analogy between the two cases.
In short, from every view which he had
been able to give the fubjeft, he was deci- ,
(iedly of opinion, that Congress ought imme
diately to proceed to the raising of an army, j
or defer it altogetheruntiltheir next meeting. \
Mr, B. said, he had bitherto confined him- i
felf to the unconftitutisnality of the measure; i
but as others may differ from him in opinion ,
in this respect, he would consider the expedi- ]
ency of it; and he would freely declare tor :
himfelf, that if the President might be legal- i
ly empowered to raise this army in the way ]
proposed, there is no circumstance in our pre- j
sent situation which would induce him to t
raise one man. He had himfelf no apprehen
sion of an invasion, and until he saw some- j
thing more threatening than at present, he •
should never consent to the increase of our i
present military etiablifhment. .
Gentlemen may declaim as much as they i
will about the incapacity of the United States i
to repel invasion. He believed himfelf that J
the militia of the country are equal to its de- |
fence; he believed with the gentleman from i
N. Carolina {Mr. R. Williams) "thatJla-vcs f
fight for money, and freemen ftr liberty." He t
did not mean, he said, by this, to cast any re- i
flection upon hired soldiers; but he believed, >
that freemen, poireffed of every thing valua- 1
ble in society that liberty and good govern- i
ment>could give, would always be ready to \
repel any invasion which may be attempted <
against them, a;id until Congress can be got t
together, he believed our militia would be i
perfedly competent to our defence; for, \
notwithstanding what had been (aid with re- t
fpe£t to the incompetency of our militia, he ,1
would (ay that their services in out revoluti- r
on proved the contrary. He would travel r
with gentlemen from the East to the South,
and he was certain that the conduit of these t
degraded militia, during the war, might be t
compared with that of the regular arnay, c
without any dishonour to them. 1
Mr. B. (aid it was a very memorable cir- p
cumftance, that in the arguments on thisfub- e
ject .heretofore, and in private conversation, r
this provilional army was always (aid to be i
wanted for the Southern parts of the Union.
The Eastern States, it was observed, confi- \
dered themselves as perfectly fafe ; but from i
their fraternal affection and abundant care for r
their Qfter States, the gentlemen from those
States wished to provide for the fecnrity of
. the Southern States. For it is a fa£t, that
the desire for this.army originates with gen
. flemen from the Eastward, who confefs tlaey
do not want it for themselves, and the repre
sentatives ot the Southern States, generally
speaking, are opposed to an eflablithment of
this kind. [Mr. Dana did not recolle£t that
any gentleman had said the Eastern States
e were facure from invasion.] Mr. B. said he
knew that one of the most cogent reasons ur
ged in favour of this army was, that the Sou
thern States flood in need of them in order
- to qnell any infurreftion which might take
i place amongfl the Blacks in those quarters.
. [Mr. Sew a Li. said he had made ule of an
ex predion which he believed had been uiif
underftood. He spoke of the militia of the*
Southern States as not being in so good order
t as those of the' Eastern States, and that it
1 would be better, therefore, for the PreHdent
\ to have power to raise an army for the defence
or those States, than that the militia should
be marched from the Eastward for the pur
pose.] With refpett to the diforganjzed
state of the militia to the Southward, Mr. B.
• believed he could speak to that point as well
i as the gentleman from MaflaChufetts, and he
> could iay, with truth, that the militia of the
i State which he represented was better organ
. ized now, than it was during the war, and it
will be remembered that the greater part of
the defeiice of that State was then performed
1 by the militia. There were also at that time
a greater proportion of Blacks than there are
at this time, and the enemy with whom we
had then to combat, Offered as great induce
ments to alienate them as Vittor Hughes, or
any other person can do. Those States, how
, ever, not only kept the Blacks in fubordinati
( on, but repulfsd the invading enemy. He
was willing to pledge his own responsibility in
faying, that if the Southern States are fuller
ed to remain as they are, they will be equal to
their own defence. With refped to the dis
organized date of the Southern militia, let
I him ask the gentleman from Maflachufetts,
and those who had reiterated the remarks,
whether it was juftified in their conduit in
marching to suppress the infurreftion which
took place a few years ago in the western part
of this State ? It certainly was not, for when
they were called out to carry intoeffect a law
which was extremely obnoxious to them (he
said extremely obnoxious, because none ever
was more so than the Excise law to the peo
ple ofVirginia) yet, notwithstanding the dis
organized state of the militia of Virginia, not
withstanding they were cailed upon at a very
(hort notice, they were ready sooner than the
most sanguine expected them. And they were
not then called «pon to meet a foreign enemy,
but their fellow citizens—men with whom
they had fought fide by fide for their liberty
and independence ; yet, notwithstanding their
disorganized state, they were capable of dif
cerwingthe necelTity of crushing an oppofitioh
to the execution of the laws.
As to a French invasion, and that it is ne
ceflary to have an army to prevent it, it is i
dle and vain to talk of it; it is a mere bugbear.
Gentlemen who speak of this have surely for
gotten the immense ocean which happily se
parates us from Europe, as well as the im
mense militia of the country. Let us, said
he, go on and make the people salutary laws;
let the people experience the bleflings of a
good government; convince them that every
civil institution is intended to promote their
happiness, and you will not require a standing
army either to defend the country against in
ternal or external enemies.
The gentleman from Maflfachufetts appre
hends that France may invade us before we
expert it. Because Ihe has a large army on 1
her coast, he supposes (lie may immediately J
transport them to our coast, and overwhelm |
us with them. But when he recolletts the j
distance there is betwixt them and us, hemuft ;
be convinced that the French have no means j
of trartfporting a large army hefe, except they j
emprio.yballoons for thepurpofe. He believ- j
ed the danger did not exili, nor did he believe
there wusahy difpoiition in France to invade ,
us. Even if /he poffefTes all that spirit of do
mination of which gentlemen speak, flie need j
not pass a tempestuous ocean to exercise it, as
there are mitcfh more convenient situations ;
than this country, for her puYpofe, nearer <
home. If ihe be not retrained by moral con- i
fiderations, therefore, those of convenience <
will be fufficiently operative.
Mr. Brent concluded by faying, that there -
could scarCely be any situation in which he <
should be induced to vote for raising a fiand- 1
ingariny, as he ronfidered (landing armies as j
the banc and deftrudtion ot free countries, and |
nothing but a situation of things which would i
make it elTentially neceflCary, could prevail up- j
on him to go into the measure. Not being a- i
larmed to the extent which some gentlemen i
appear to be, he was willing to let things re- <
main as they are; for he was no more appre- <
henfrve of an invasion, than he was apprehen- !
live of being transported before night into
the moon. \
Mr. Otis observed that this bill wasob- 1
jested to on the ground of its unconftitution- j
ality, as if it were intended by it to delegate j
the power which belongs to Congress to raise (
an army to the Pre/ident of the United States; r
whereas no such thing is intended—this army 1
will not be raised by the President, but by this >
House. The bill was proposed, Indeed, to be j
patted in a form which would make the rai- c
ling of the army depend upon certain contin- \
gencies, to be judged of by the President \
but he believed ail the three contingencies i
perfectly definite in their nature. And he
wished to k«ow what difference there would f
be betwixt giving the President the power of r
raising this army, in cafe of a declaration of i
war, afi invasion, or ot there being imminent j
danger of invasion, awd his calling Congress \
together for the parpofe, in any of those e- r
vents ? And he would alk also whether, if it c
was the opinion of the Pre/ident that the coun - c
try waS in imminent danger of beinginvaded, f
any gentleman would wish to take so much [
responsibility uppn himfelf as to oppose the e
railing of an army. t
Wherever absolute ,power was inverted, 1
there could be no doubt but that power might f
be executed upon a condition. If Congress 1
could raise an ai.my to-morrow, they certain- t
ly might order it to be raised in the manner a
proposed, aS no member could afcerrain the t
extent of danger 'or himfelf, he mull in some c
measure depend upon the Pre/ident for his
information. f
The gentleman toft up fays the precedents \
which had been adduced produce'! no effect c
upon his mind, as error must fjr.ver remain r
error; but believed that wlje > once a ore- {
' cedent was ellablilhed, the cgnfequeoce ol
t cfoing it away ought to be conlidercd before
t it is reverted. It the acts in which this prin
ciple is recognized, be declared iinconftitd'ti
' onal, wha< becomes of yom present military
- e(t.iblilhntt'nt, of your gallies, Sec ? The
whole laws and eftabjifhmentsmuft be diftbl
t ved. The present military force would be
t unconftitutional.allthemeneyborrowedonloan
s would be unconftitutional,and every thing done
: underthefefeverallaws wouldbe null and void.
1 f this course was to be taken, some new
• mode of doing bufitiefs mult be invented.
9uppo(e, if infeead ofaathorizing the Pre*
' fident to raise an army in cafe certain contin
. gencies. take place, Congress were immedi-
I ately to order the army to be railed, might
■ they not fay that the President (hould luve
> power (as they had heretofore "done) of for
r bearing to raise them, if, in his opinion, cir
cumltances (hallhave so changed, as to m.tke
t the army unneceflary? They certainly might,
: anil the two powers amounted to the fame
1 thing.
Mr. O. fa:d he (hould not follow gentlemen
t through all the remarks which they had made
relative to the expediency of the present mea
sure; but he would notice such as he thought
: had any weight.—lt wasfaidnoinvafionef this
: country could be expefled, because it was
ther in the power, nor was it the interest of
France to invade this country. But there may
bemenin powerin Francewhohavean interel't
in it; and he (hould think it natural for them-to
: conceive they had the power, if we declined
: to raise any force against them. Besides.'is
they think they can detach one part of our
country from another, and that they have
here a strong party in their favour, they may
invade the country, not with a view of.con
quering it, but merely for the purpose of
displacing the present Adminillration, aod of
fixing another in its Head, more to their taste.
He did not himfelf think the French had the
power of invading the country, nor did he
think they would find it to be their inlercft,
but perhaps they might not forefee this; and
ought not a fufficient number, fregulariroops
to be rAised to give aid to the militia, and to
impart to them discipline and courage?—
Could there be any fear that the Prelident
would raise these men, if no danger threaten
ed the country? He did not believe that
this could be apprehended.
But it wasfaid, that if the country was inva
ded, the Militia of the country would be com
petent to its defence. He was furpriled to
hear the polition advanced. He believed the
Militia of this country was as good as that o£
any other ; but would any man fay that Mili
tia were able to Hand against veteran soldiers ?
Was nothing due to discipline and experience ?
It we were invaded, would it be by militia
men ? No ; it would be by men who would
laugh at the idea of being opposed by militia.
Militia might fight very well for a short time ;
but they could not be expeited to be fuccefs
tul against regular troops. It was vain and idle,
therefore, to talk of defence, except gentle
men would concur in railing an army. It an
invasion was attempted, it would be of great
consequence that we (hould have experienced
officers ready 10 take the field immediately.
The gentleman last up had descanted on the
invidious comparisons which had been made
betwixt the Militia of the Eastern and Sou
thern States. Every opinion which he had ot
the Southern militia, he had gathered from
gentlemen from that quarter of the country.
He had been informed that out of 7,000 mi
litia in N. Carolina only 500 had arms, and
when the Militiabill was under confidei'ation,
he understood that the Militia of that country
wasin a very indifferent state. And as hecon
(idered himfelf as much interested in the de
fence of theSouthernas the Eastern States, all
being a part of jtlie common country whose
interests he had to consider, he had as much,
right to consider what was necessary for tTie
' defence of those states as any other, l iulhould
' be sorry to have that part of the Union over
| run, and if it could be prevented by 10 or
; 15,000"troops, he should wilh to raise them for
the purpose. Not that the danger ofinvafion
was confined to the southern country. It wa3
quite as lilcelv to take place to the eastward.
The port of Newport was as likely to he at
tacked as any other in the Union ; because if
an i' nemy got poflellion of that port, hey
could go out and in when they liked, and ex
tend their depredations to the southward or
eastward at pleasure. But the gentleman from
Virginia fays, the militia of that State id
wonders in the War. He did not wifii to depre
ciate the militia, he were one of them himfelf;
but though the Militia was very serviceable
in the war, yet he did not thjnk they were
the principal defence of the southern country}
they foriietimes fought well, but they also
sometimes runaway.—lndeed, he believed the
idea was in every p, »' of the world given up,
that a Militia is equal to the complete defence
of any country. And was nothing due to tile
opinion of other countries in this refpertf
Shall we, said he, (land still and fay to our
Euemy, " we know you cannot aiid will not
invade hs ?" If we are not invaded, it will be
because there will be 110 profpetfl of success ;
and except means of defence were taken, this
prospeCt may not appear clear; for, however
confident we may be in our Militia, we fliall
not be able to mike the veteran troops of
Enrope believe that they can defend us. It
was therefore worth a hundred times the e*-
pence of raising thele troops, to change the
opinion which may be entertained of our
weakness in that partofthe world, and to con
vince them that we mean to be prepared to
meet any attack which may be made upon us.
But the gentleman from Pennsylvania had
said, an invasion could not be expelled du
ring the present season. He had himfelf no
idea of an invasion whilst the waF continued in
Europe ; but it an end was put to that, it
would he more likely that an attack (hould be
made upon us during this season than at any
other. When the aimy of England, as it is
called, and the drips prepar ; ng to convey if,
fliall be no longer wanted for what was said to
be their present obje6t, nothing would be more
easy than to fend these (oldjers and velfejs ei
ther against this country, or to Ijouifiana, and
he fliould consider one step pretty much the
fame as the other. After all that had been
heard of the f'.cret articles in the treaty be
twixt Franceand Spain, such an event was not
at all improbable ; and if such an event were
to take place, he believed more than either 10
or 15,000 men would be wanted.
He owned he had rather provision had been
for 50,000 than 10,000 men, as ho expence
would be called for, except there was a ne
celfity far raising the men, and if there was'
that neceflity, he fliould wilh the lorce to be
fuffirie-ut foi the purpose for which it wa»
[Volume XIII.tailed. The only question at present was,
w nether, from a conftittiuonal doubt which
had no foundation, the house would reftt r e to
give the President the power propofeyl, and
by that means delay the raifingof men,"until
the President should call Congress together,
which would be at least two months after the
danger appeared. In his opinion, this was no
time for aking these nice constitutional scru
ples, he thought the power ought to be given,
or the army immediately raised. Indeed no
army could be raised without giving to the
Prelident a certain degree of power. For his
part, he thought as much discretion was given
to the President when an army was ordered to
be raised immediately, as in the mode propo
sed by this bill. And the power to raise an
army, when a certain contingency (hall take
place, was by no means equal to th£ power
placed in the President, of commanding the
army when it is raised. Mr. O. hoped therefore
the fedion would be retained.
Mr. M'Dowell was much better pleated
With the amendment proposed by the feledt
committee, thin with the bill as it originally
tame from the Senate ; but he had objections
to the amendment on conftitutianal ground.
He believed the power of determining the fit
time to rase an army was verted in Congress,
and could not be transferred. Hed'dnotwiih
to put it in the power of the President, or of
any other man, or body of men, to appoint a
large numberot officers, and create a very hea
vy ex pence without neceflity. Especially
when he saw, from the communications which
Were bef re the house, that there was reason
to believe, that if this power was given, the
President would immediately appoint officers,
and proceed to raise the men. If the situation
of the country requires an army to be raised, he \
wiihed gentlemen to fay so, and propose a re
folutioii to that efleth For his own part, he
did not believe the present situation of the ■
Country required it; but that the Militia was
equal to the defence of the country, at least in
the firft in (la nee. If we were invaded by a for
midable foe, an eftabliftimentof the kind pro
pQfed, and to a much greater extent, might be (
r.ecefTary. But the gentleman last up fays our
Militia are wanting in discipline and arms,
and indifferently officered, and therefore an
army is jiecetfary. He could not fee himfelf
how a change of name could make any differ
ence in the competency of force. It was nei
ther bounty, nor a coat that could make afol
dier. I fan invasion takes place, the Militia
mud be relied upon at the firfi. As to what
the gentleman had said about the Militia be
ing badly disciplined and officered, it might in
lb me refpefts be true ; but so far as it related
to the Militia of N. Carolina, he would tell
that gentleman that whoever were his infor
mants, that the aflcrtion was not correft.
The Militia of tfiat State had, in most instan
ces, been able to repel any force which had ,
fcome igainft them, with the afliftancc of but ,
very few regulars. But suppose the gentleman
had his 10,000 men, when they werediftribu •
ied to different parts of the Union, it would
afford but a small number to each, and the
Militia mud at least principally be depended
upon. Except gentlemen wished, therefore*
to saddle the country with a standing army, he
thought they ought not to vote, for this bill,
as they mud fee how difficult it is to get rid of
any force which has once been raised. Let
them also recollect how much the appoints
naent of a great number of officers in the army
wouldincreafe the influence of the Executive,
andconfequentlv the dangerous effeft it would
have upon the liberty and independence of the
country. The experice was a very confidera
bleobjeft, but that which he had. last named
Was, in his opinion (till greater.
Gentlemen had spoken of the conversati
ons which h-d taken place betwixt X, Y &
Z, and our env< ys in Paris, which thev Teem
ed to think threatened great dangers to this
country. He owned he relied but little up
on that inofficial information, which he
co uld not coafider as coming from the
French nation. If the opinions of indivi
duals in any country were to be taken and
atled upon as the opinions of the nation of
which they have fo«med a part, we should
be continually in error ; this might be judga
ed of from what we fee at home, for if the
opinions of some individuals in this country,
or the opinions which are ilTued from some
of thep»efTes here, were to be taken as the
op-mons of the country, and afted upon by
ike French govtrnment, we should think k*
a very extraordinary procedure. Fcr his
part he did nor rely upon these communi
cations, and he was persuaded this country
would be fccure from an invasion from
Fiance, from its not being in her power to
Undertake it, and if it were, that it would
not be her interest to attempt it.
One word. Mr. M'D. said, with refpeA
to the milit a, and he had done. The gen
tleman last up said it was impoflible that 1
they could contend with old veteian troops, j
That gentleman, he believed, had himfelf 1
never had any experience in fighting, and he 1
depended too much ujxon names. He him- '
was acquainted with instances in which 1
our militia had over-turned the greatelt ve- I
terans ; and if this was rot fufficient, if the i
gentleman would reiolleft that some of the <
moll brilliant achievements of the French '<
armies, were acoomplifhed by new, undifci :
plined troops, he would no longer infill up_ t
on his opinion that we mull have a standing <
army to meet an invasion.
Mr. Hap. per could not persuade himfelf t
that the arguments adduced againfl the un- t
Conditutioualitv of the present bill, were ca- *
pable cf a serious reply ; but with refpeft to a
the expediency of the measure, he thought a
there-were some considerations worthy of a
notice, which had not yet been laid before c
the committee.
Gentlemen opposed to this measure, are r
conllantly cOßtrading the services of the mi
litia with those of regular troops. Nobody *
ha« said that the defence of the country i
ought to depend upon regular troops entire- e
ly, or upon the militia entirely," yet gentle- r
men argue as if the queliion was whether the e
country should be, defended by the one or
the other. They gave the force proposed 1
to be raised. indeed, a name which does not
belong to it, viz. that of a standing army, t
Was ab.dy of troops raised only for three h
years, to be called a standing army ? A re- t
gular force and a Handing army are quite n
different things. A standing army is wholly h
in the power of the Executive of a country, n
and not liable to be put down ; fueh an efta., t
blilhment would be alarming in this country, 6
and it had been effeftually preventen fcy the b
confticution, whieh declares that no appro- ji
pria ion for an army shall be made for isore v
t an two-years. ti
Mr, H. said, he was flroßg'y impressed h
s - with the ufrfulnefs of militia he bclii ved
h they were the great (trrnjrth of this country ; j
j but he did not believe tin y coul 'be called
il into f rvice with fufficient promptm-fa, with
r, out the aid of regular troop., and gentlemen
le who fprak of their experience cannot con
-10 trovert this point. I hey fay the militia
might be called out to meet any predatory
i( j attack; hut < xperieoce did not confirm this. '
le It was well knowa that in sparse fettled
is countries the militia could not tie promptly
n called into fervire ; in compaft settlements,
0 he knew the contrary was trtie. In that
part of the country where this defence was
: mod wanted, the settlement is very thin,and
, r the m litia not being used to aft 'ogeiher,
e would, at firft, make but an indifferent de
'e fence. In the late war the militia were
almost conftanly intermixed with regular
J* troops, and he would not flop to fay how
often they were defeated notwithfla'fcding.
)S It was also well known how long it took
I. to organize these troops, and" how much
it the enemy gained on account of these de
li lays; yrt we are to fay, because our militia
£ are brave, and rhe people are attached to
a their liberty, no other troops (hall be em
_ ploye-J in the defence of them but the mii
y tia. He knew that the people were attach
!i ed to their right', and would defend them ; !
n but he also knew, that fomethiig more than
e a disposition to do it was necefTary ; they t
mull have flcill, and what ts more important,
c they mud have commanders. He himfelf
. belonged to one of the bed corps of militia
e in South Carolina, which, though cc mpofed
e of persons who had the greafcd (lake in the 1
s country, wanted discipline, and was far from
1 being prompt in obedience to orders. In
deed, he believed the milicia only wanted i
e the habits of fold ers to make them equal to j
r' regular troops. But gentlemen fay, that [
, there is no danger of ari invasion from Eu
rope, as France had neither troops nor (hips
for the purpose, being wholly engaged in her
' projeft againfl England. But are there no
. Frenchmen but in Europe ? Did gentlemen
i look at the situation of the southern dates?
t It was true the gentleman from Virginia
- (Mr. Brent) had taken upon him to fav that
J he would b ■ refponfi'le for the fafety of the
! southern dates, from the militia alone ; but,
. though that gentleman might be well ac
. quainted with the sea coafl of Virginia, he
- believed he knew little of that be ween
1 1 Charleftonand Savannah. It was disagree
' ; able to him to point out the weak places of
the union, nor would he have done it, had
j not gentlemen spoken of the fafety of that
e coast. Mr. H. then mentioned several p'a
1 ces whe e attacks might be made with faci
> lity and success. We know, said he, that
= Victor Hughes and ToufTaint have each of
J- them corifiderable force, and though not fuf
t fici-nt perhaps to expel the troops from St.
. Domingo, th y might be fufficient to fend
1 againlt our southern coall, and do confidera
, ble damage before any opposition eould be
J made to them ; except we had a few thou
' sand regular tronps dationed in that qflar
[ ter; and if they were to get pofTeffion of
Savannah or Charleflon, they might do im
mense milchief before they could be diflodg
-1 ed. He believed it would be wife 10 pre
. vent this mi/chief, and that would be most
effeftuslly done by giving the President the
. power proposed.
• Bcfidet, some regard was due to the feel- 1
! ings of the people in that part of the coun- 1
try; they are alarmed on account of their 1
| situation, and wish Cbngfcfs to. take fotne ;
: measures for their defence. If they find i
the President is veiled with tTie power of raif, i
ing an army, they will be fatisfied ; but if I
they find themselves abandoned, however at- I
tached they may be to the government, this 1
attachment may be dedroyed by neghd. 1
The gentleman from Pennsylvania may rrd
fecurelv on the banks of the Monongahala, J
, and the gentleman from Virginia in the thick <
settlements of that country, but they ought t
to recolle£l also the situation of these expo- I
fed people, and provide for their fafety. r
The Committee had been told by the gen- r
tleman from Pennsylvania that there was no g
danger to be apprehended in the Southern d
States, as the white population was equal to f
the defence of that country ; but if he was t
well acquainted with the fea-coad of that 11
counlry, he would know that the black po- 1
pulation on the fea-coad is very great, and o
that there is a large traft of country foil of a
fa'lntfTes and mardies bttween them and the ll
white population, and that if once the blacks d
made a lodgement in these marsh s, it would it
be difficult to driv« them off. The people h
in this quarter expeft, therefore, in any t<
emergency, to receive aid from government; if
and unless they fee a measure of this kind r;
agreed to, they will be dilheartened and their ft
confidence in the Union will be much weak- r:
ened. w
Mr. H. concluded wi'h hoping the mo, w
tiou to strike out the fedion would be nega- tl
tived, as the force would not be called out tl
without necessity, the President having te te
answer for liis conduft on his responsibility ; w
and if there should be imminent danger of in
an invasion, no one would fay that this force ly
ought to be called out. 0 )
A. motion was mads for the committee to ft:
rife. al
Mr. N. Smith hoped the commkte# to
would not rife. This fubjeft had already bt
undergone one day's, discussion and he doubt- B
ed not by this time every gentleman had (I
made up his mind on the fubjeft. He with- in;
ed, therefore, the question might be taken, eo
Ihe quedion was then put on the com- ne
mittee's rising, and negatived 48 to 35. fta
Mr, R. WILLIAMS then rose, and said if ne
the committee were determined not to rife, fta
he supposed they would be vVilling'to attend co
to what was said on the fubjeft. He could nr
not have sonceived that this question could up
have turned so much upon the disposition of co
members as to the propriety of defending co
t!'.e country. To discover which was the m<
be(t way of defending the country, whether ws
by a regular army or by a militia, was a sub- me
jest well worthy enquiry. In that point of to
view, he fho\ild consider the question ; and H
therefore hoped that nothing which he should fro
fay, would be afenbed to a wifii to oppose l'g
fed any measure for the defence of the country,
y; j The gentleman from South Carolina had
led endeavoured to ma ; e a diftiiiftion betwixt
th- the army prqp»fed to be raised by this bill
len and a danding army ; bin immediately after,
an- his arguments (hewed that he confi iered it
tia in the fame light as a (landing army, as he
>ry said nothing (hr.rt of t!iii could effeitualy
lis. i oppose ai> invasion of the country. For
led part, he cou'd not fee how the calling these
tly men a provifionai army could make them so
its, , much more ejfeaive than in the form of mi
lat ' litia. But the gentleman fay-, it is necef
»as j fary for militia to have regular troops to lean
nd upon. He be ieved they were not the kind
er, of defence which the people would wish to
le- lean upon in cafe of an invasion. On the
:re contrary, in such a cafe, he believed cvVry
lai- man would wilt to defend himfelf and family.
3w Mr. W. said, who are the persons intend
ed to compote this provifionai army ? Are
ok they men who have more natural ties to the
ch country than those who compose the miiitia ?
le- No; they are taken from the drcets of large
tia cities ; many cf them are men without any
to attachment ts the country at all, and per
a- haps poffefied of but little principle. He
i- 1 mud. therefore, give the preferer.ee to mi
h- litia.
a; | Gentlemen fay this army is to be raised at
an. the discretion of the President, asd that it
ey J will not be foimed unUfs the circumstances
it, of the country require it; yet, at the fame
elf ume, they go on to point oat parts of the
tia country which at this moment dand in need
ed i defence. It therefore appeared to him,
he that •gentlemen were of opinion that if this
■m law pasTed, the President would immediate
n- jly raise the men. The gentleman from S.
Ed ; Carolina fays, he has received letters from
to | his condicuents speaking of their alarm. He
nt had also received letters, but his constituents
u- requed that arms and ammunition might be
ps fnrniflied them, not that a ftjnding army
er (hould'be sent to defend them,
io If was said, that thi; bill ought not to be
. n objeaed to on conditutianal ground, as
s ? Congress frequently empowered the Prefi
ia dent to do business which the conditution
at had vested solely in them ; but gentlemen
[ie m«ke no diftinaion between Congtefs de~
it, termunng a thing (hall be done, and leaving
c- it to the President to determine whether it
be (hall or (hall not be done. No person hss
eii said Congress could Hot authorize the l'ie
e fident to raise an army for the defence of the
of country ; but it was denied that the power
id could be transferred from Congress to him,
at to determine whether it (hould or (hould
a not be raised. Mr. W. believed the trans
:i- ferring of power from one department to a
at nother, was not only dangerous but embar
sf raffed the proceedings of government. And
if- it was aifo observable, that every indance of
it. this kind was produced as a precedent for
id future deviations, and all objeaions to such
a- t proceeding were opposed by faying, «it
be had been done so before."
u- Mr. W. said, if Congress had a right to
ir- transfer this power, he wished gentlemen to
of (hew why they could not also transfer the
n- power of declaring war ; as they had not
g. yet (hewn this, though before called upon to
e- do it. Indeed, he (hould not be surprized
id if this power (hould be a/ked for on some
ie future accafion.
The only difference which Mr. W. could
:1- fee betwixt the provifionai army when raif
n- ed, and the present militia, was, that the
ir former would have its officers under federal
ie aiithori y, and in the latter they would be
id appointed by the dates. The men would
f, in general be the fame. What did this go
if to, but to fay that the militia is not to be
t- truded under their present officers, there
is mud be officers fixed by the general govern
t. ment.
d The gentleman from Conn, aicut (Mr.
l, Dana) had quoted several clauses of the
k Constitution, and made some criticisms upon
it them, and had endeavouted to make the fup
>- porters of the present motion ridicul u , by
representing them as wishing i 0 turn the
i- members of this house into recruiting fer- .
o geants, brokers, tax gatherers, &c. In
n doing this, he believed he had fuffered him
-0 felf to metamorphose the Conditution, so as
s to make it mean any thing or nothing, in.
t dead of construing it in a liberal manner.—"
i- The fame gentleman fays, he (hould have bo
"1 objeaion to raif.- the proposed army immedi
f ately, but thcexpence. Was it not rather
e that he wilhed to place a power in the Prefi
s der.t to exercise, which he supposes he will
1 immediately exercise, but which he appte.
e hende Congress would not be prevailed with 1
ir to exercise at present? For his own part, '
; if an army was to beraifed, he wi(hed to i
1 raise it in the way pointed out bv the Con- 1
r ditutien. It was said that if this army was i
- raised, it might at any time be difljanded, <
when it (hould cease to be wanted ; but
. when he heard gentlemen fay they wifhid I
- this army rather to eonfid of 50,000 men, I
t than 10,000, and knew the difficulty at- '
» tending the breaking up of any thing which <
; was once edabliftied, he was deiirous of avoid- <
f ing a measure which he believed to be whol- '
: ly unnecessary. The geographical Sttiation «
of thjs count y, said Mr. W. is such, that a r
danding army of 200,000 men would not be
able to defend it. It was idle, therefore f
to suppose the country coold be very much t
benefitted by the raising of 10,000 men. t
■ Bm the gentleman from South-Carolina f
(Mr. Harper) dill speaks of th fe men be. c
ing necessary for the defence of the four hern c
country. That gentleman r-ay think them t
necessary for the defence of some part of his e
date, but he could nbt believe thtm to be ri
necessary for the defence of any part of the
date to which he (Mr. W.) belonged. His t
condituentß never wished to fee a danding ar- a
my sent amongd them. Indead of looking j<
upon such men as their defence, they would ii
confidcr them as the greated curse that could d
come upoß them. Why, then, will gentle- f<
men continually infill upon these men being p
wanted for the southern dates, when no ft
member from those dates will fay they wi(h la
to have them, except one gentleman (Mr. d
Harper). And though the gentleman p
from Massachusetts (Mr. Otis) was f> ob- h
liging as t» fay he (hould wuVto take the hi
y. fame care of the ftnnjiern ftatc» as the eaf
id tern, he ceuld affiire that gentleman he might
:t mike himfelf perfealy easy a to their fafery.
II Mr. W. concluded with repeating l*te
r, hope that the feeliou would be ttruclc out.
it Mr. Findley said this bill cer ainly pro
ie posed a transfer of power to the Prelident,
y wliich was lodged by the conflitmion in Con
's grefs, and therefore he was opposed to it.—
fe The gentleman from South Carolina denied
"o that the army proposed to be laifed by this
i- bili could be considered as a (landing army,
f- because the bill was only to be pa (Ted for
n three years. Upon the fame ground it might
d be said, that Great-Britain has no (landing
0 army, as their military edablifhment law
le is parted annually. Mr. F. was of opinion,
y that if this bill was now passed, the men
r. could not beraifed ; the officer.-, he had no
1- doubt, would. At ihe commencement of
e our revolution, when every bread glowed
e »i;h eathuliafm in the cause in which we
? were engaged, there was a difficulty in get
e ting men. We might, as he'had said, get
y an army o( rfficers, but won! they, when I
•- got, be equal to the militia officers ? He ; 1
e doubted it. If the army was to be increased, f i
i- it would be necessary to increase the wages | (
of the men Militia, he said, was the na- j 1
it tural force of the country, and the railing | 1
t cf io ,000 men would not prevent them from j 1
s coming forward in defence of their country, I
e when dinger appeartd. He was himfelf i
e got too old for service, but he had fo'ns <
3 whom lie believed would be ready to fly with
, their fellow citizens to the defence of their I
s country in cafe of invasion. (
After a few words from Mr. Davis in (
~ favour of the committee's riling, and frQm J
* Mr. N.Smith againd it, the quedion on
e riling was put and carried 45 to 36.
s Adjourned, half pad four. i
e t
y Friday—may 4. j
Delate on granting have to Mr. Pinclney to j
e receive lertain presents. (
1 (Continued from Saturday's Gazette.) '
Mr. W. Claiborne submitted to the gen- I
i tleman from Delaware, as a lawyer, whether '
1 the committee could gather, from ariv thing c
. before the house, that these presents made f
r by foreign courts, confided of chains or r
t fnuff-boxes ? He owned he could draw no S
s such conclusion for himfelf. But whatever n
- the present may be was immaterial to him h
e in the present quedion, because he was f (
r convinced that nothing which an European h
, monarch had in his power to give, could l '
1 lessen the patristifm of our late minider, or b
- alienate his affeftions from his country. It
■ was not to the amount of the present, and
whether it was a fnnff-box, or anything f<
1 else, which was a thing of no consequence, *1
f and ought not to have been named. He c
r ohje&ed to the principle of our foreign tl
i miniders receiving presents at all from Eu- q
t ropean monarch* ; this principle be looked fl
upon as the more dangerous, because it "
3 opened an avenue to foreign influence an c '
3 influence amongd monarchs, too, which has b
e always proved the dedruftion of Republics.
t Notwithdandingwhat had fallen from the 0
» gentleman from Delaware, he was convinced "
i the gentleman from South-Carolina would 11
e not think himfelf authorized to receive these »
presents, without the authority of Cangref, b
1 were they offered to him as a private citizen, •>
. as they were certainly meant as a compli- P
e ment to him as minider. As to what P
1 had been said by the gentleman from Dela- °
c ware, with refpea to the present of a fuuff
i box, or pidure, being precedents which r<
3 would lead to the granting of titles, what 1
■ he said, was, that the precedent would au- 01
: thorize the application for leave to accept t!
. of a title, at some future period, which
would introduce a difcuflion on that floor, 01
. whether it ought to be received or not, and*
i thereby disgrace the country in the eyes of d
i eveiy enlightened citizen. ni
Mr. Thatcher was in favour of the refo- j°
lutfon. Gentlemen seemed oppejfed to it e '
• on the ground of its edablifhing a prece-
dent for the future. He did not think this P'
objeftion founded; for, as the constitution ™
does not absolutely forbid the receiving of or
presents, the difcuflion on the,propriety of P'
allowing it in futur? would not be prevented
by the present dccilion. Future louses <"
could refufe or grant leave to receive these lh
presents, and the coHftitution did not ab- 4,1
folutely take away the right. He conlidered
the gentleman who now applied to Congress
as having a natural right to receive a pre
sent except some reason was /hewn to the *b>
contrary. Gentlemen allow they knew of w '
no special reason ; they allow the applicant &
has done the business with which lie was
entruded, well. He supposed, therefore,
that gentlemen mud themselves vote for it,
except they abandon their own ground. \
But the gentleman from Tennessee had hal
said, the resolution ought to be disagreed gra
to, io order to dop the avenues to corruption
from foreign courts. For his part, he Ple
could fee no connexion betwixt a decision
ou this quedion and corruption; for whether }.
it was agreed to, or disagreed to, it would ,
■ot take away the power from miniders to
receive presents, if they were so disposed.
But it was said, that to agree to this re- f
solution, would lead to the granting of
titles. Suppose, said Mr. T. a title (hould wo
be applied for, and leave granted, and a pi "
foreign power (hould create a duke or a
count of a citizen of this country, what r
could it be, but to make him and his pof-
terity for ever ridiculous? A» he saw no
evil which could arise from agreeing to this «
resolution, he (hould vote for it.
Mr. R. Williams hoped by the v#te of Stri
this day, the house would get rid of future
applications of this kind. When the sub- Th
jea was fir ft introduced, he was opposed to
it ; but, if the quedion had gone off without
debate to-day, he intended to have voted
for it. From the difcuflion which had taken
place, however, he was convinced it was a
' i'ubjea upon which they ought not to legif-
late, fmce the ading upon it, would pro
duce greater evils than the conditution had
provided againd. He believed they ought A
here to put a dop to the business. If not, i R V
he wmild rather that our miniders (hould be j " »
:af- at. liberty to receive all the piefenti offered
fht to them, than that the thing ftould stand
ty. upon its present footing,
hie The gentleman last up, had endeavoured
to shew the determination upon the present
ro question would not set an example for the
nt, future. It was his with to fix a principle
an- upon this fubjetf, and he had no doubt this
decision would do it. ,
ied It had been said, that the gentleman who
his made this application,.had a i«'ght to receive
ny, these presents, without this application
for Wtjr, then, was the application made !
*ht OughtCongrefs to be called upon ever'y year
ng to discuss qneftions which would cost the
aw union 2 or 3OCO dollars, every year, if the
>n, right of receiving the presents existed inde
len pendent of Congress. This, he believed,
no would be spending the money of the public
of in a way which wauld not be very well ap
ed proved. As this was the firft application
we which ha 1 been made since the existence of
;t- the present government, for this leave, it
set was the proper time for Congress to fay,
en they will, or will not countenanpe the praq
rle tice of receiving ihefe presents.. Our mi.
d, j miters he said. would be obliged by such a
;es ; determination, as if the decision wasagainft
la- j the praflice, I hey would no longer be tron
ng I bled with the offers of presents, or if they
>m had them offered, they could, without hefi
y, tation, decline the acceptance of them ; but,
elf if this was not done, thiire would be no end
ins of the business. If this mation fhoultj not
th be negatived, if he should be here, ano
eir ther feflion, he would propose the patting
of a law to authorize our mifiifters to receive
in these presents except there fnould appear
im some particular objection to such a law.
on Mr. Lyon said. he had heard much about
American feelings. He had some of those
feelings himfelf, and they taught him neither
to approve direftly or indirealy of the
practice of foreign governments paying our
to public agents. If the gentleman from South
Carolina had not been well paid for his ser
vices, he should be willing to pay him more;
n- but he Ihculd not be willing to lay this
cr country under an ©bligatiop to a foreign
ig country, by our ministry accepting of pre
]e fents, or to make similar returns to their
3r miniiters. It was said, the gentleman from
io South-Carolina might receive these presents
• r now, without the consent of Congress. If
:n he chose to ri(k his own charailer bydeing
is f°i Congress had nothing to do with it ;
n hut for Congress to authorize any such
d thing, in his •pinion, would be a fliameful
, r business.
[ t Mr. Bayard wonld tell the gestleman
d from Tenneffes on what authority he in
g formed the committee that the pref«Bts in
question consisted of what he had mention.
e ed. Being upon the committee to whom
n this fubiedt was referred, he made some en.
quiry as to what were the usual presents,
d from the European courts, and found, that
[ t in Holland, it was customary to give a gold
n chain and nsedal; in France, a gold fnuff
is hox > and in Spain a pi&ure. It was oa
s. this ground he laid these things were
le of no cotlfequence. Mr. B. then remarked
d upon what had fallen from Mr. R. Wil
d liams, with refpeft to the expence incurred
; e in discussing this fubje<3, and said it had
f, been owing to gentlemen opposing the refo
1, lution that so long a discussion had
i- place, as to the law which that gentleman
lt proposed to introduce, he must fee that the
t- confiitution would not admit of such a law.
f_ But some gentlemen were opposed to tbi»
h resolution, because it was supposed the
t United States would be obliged to recipro-
I- cate the favor to miuifters who were feot to
t this country; and some gentleman had.fciitd
h the occafiea ef faying that few of these
ministers were deserving of any such pre
d fer.t. But because these gentlemen may be
,( diffatisfied with the conduft of foreign mi
mfter* resident here, they ought not to in
jure our own minister, wh»m all allow has
t efitr.tially served his country. He did not
. think this the proper place to discuss the
s propriety of making presents to foreign
„ ministers. When Congress we e called up
s on to adt in this matter, then would he the
f proper time for gentlethen to make their
] Hand upon it, and fay the allowance should,
s or not be made. He did not think
. the thing followed of course. He hoped,
therefore, \he resolution would be agreed to.
I (To be continued.)
i •" :
*»* The SEVENTH VOLUME of
: this Gazelle has teen lent ly the Editor to
•whom is not recolleSed i it is requeued it mat
he returned.
~~ for sale. ' ~
A neat Country House,
THREE and a half mile* from the city, on
the Wiflahicon road, wth feventwn and a
half acres ofiand, half in uri hard and halt in
graft. Apply to Edward Bonsall& Co.
in Dock-flreet, or ts the fubferiher at Mount
Pleasant, on Schuylkill, adjoining the prem-ifes.
Jonathan Williams.
N. B. If not fold before the firft of June, it
will not be for file during the season.
ma r. '9 fltj
Very Great Bargains '
/"^ONSISI INGof Table Linen, Scotch and
KJ India Muslins, now felling off and well
worth the attention of Houfckeepers to make
pur chafe of Enquiie of
1 homas Randall,
No. 88 Spruce-Brett•
may 17 §
TO RE RENTED,
To a Small Genteel Family.
A Pleasant House in Dock street, near Front
■L i- ftrcet—Apply at No. South Second-
Street - j may „
For Sale,
The eargo ofthebrig American front Laguira,
CONSIST! KG Of*
Caraccas Cocoa.
Henry Philips,
No. in, South Feurth Street.
a P"I 5
TO BS HULU, ~~
By John Nixon & Co.
A f«w hhds. excellent St. Croix SUGAR and
RUM, which will be landed at Will;ngsand Fran,
cis' whajl next Monday, the 21ft inflaot.
ma y' - 1 Mjteotf%f)t <lsasette.
Phil Abe l~phTa,
MONDAY EVENING, Maki U
Pcnnfyl-vanid Hospital, s tb month 14, I7<)8
At a meeting of the managers, a letter was read
®f which the fallowing is a fo^-y.
T .V, V. 3 °' h A, ' rlll? 9 B,
J ] 10 the Managers.
I G*NTLFM£y,
There having been published in the new«-pa
p, 1 P'« e intimating, th« the plan of The
Pennsylvania hospital has not been approved by
the contributor.: Also, that the late doißor
rraniclin left a considerable legacy, which has
added to the funds of this institution, of which
no account has been given to the publie, we re
5-ieft of you, ia order to remove any improper
impreuions, that may have been made on the
mmd« of the people, to the prejudice of the
hofpital,in refpef* to the said planand legacy to
puhlifh in one of the newspapers of the city,
the extract of d«ilor Frauk'inS will, with the
minute mi' e by the managers, on the 31ft of
tire sth tminth, and the zSth of the 6th month
1790, alio the minutes nf the contributors on
the said will dated the tjth of the 7th month
T79oto;ether with the minutes of the contribu
tors made at their special meeting, thefiril of
the *mt m.jnth 1794.. rtfpefling the plan of the
1 Hew building.
Signe/l hy eighteen Contributors.
4 Whereupon ft: was agieed, that the secretary
should canfe the will and minutes therein men
tioned to be published in one of the'papers.
Extracted fro-n {he minutes of a bca-d of
managers. %s!MUEL CO Ai ES, clerk.
Pennsylvania Hospital, sth mo. 3 •, 1790.
M a rheeting of the managers, the following
extract of JjfJor Benj*mii Franklin's twill
dated the 7to of July 178 X, was xo-iu produc
ed v z.
" During number of vtars I was in bnfi-
Hcf» as a stationer, printer and pofl-mafter, a
great many small sums became due to me for
books, advertisements, postage of Utters, an !
otEer matters which were notcolleifledi when in
1757, I was fer.t by the afTembly to England as
their ag&nt, ind liy subsequent appnintrtentfi
continwed thereuntil 1775, when on my return,
I was immediately engaged in the affairs of Cor.-
gr'tti, aadfent to France in 1774 where I re
mained ni»e yea,* not returning till 1785, and
the fiid dehts, not being demanded in f.ich a
length of time, are become in a manner obso
lete, yet are neverthelefa jullly due. Thsl'e as
they are stated in my great foiio ledger E, I be- 1
queath to the contributors to :he Pennfjlvania j
HiWpital, hoping, that those debtors, and the [
descendants of such at are deceased, who now,
at I find make some difficulties of fttiffying
f'lch antiquated demands as jtift debts, may,
however b? induced to pay or give them ascha
rity, to that excellent institution. lamfenfible
that much must inevitahly be loft, but I hope
fomjthingconfiderable may be recovered.
It'is podjble too, that some of th« parties t
charged, may have existing old unsettled ac- j
tounts m», in which cafe the managers (
of the said hospital will allow and dedu£t the
amount, or pay the balance if they find it againil C
roe. a
Ext raffed literally from the lajl nuill of the c
late Dr Benjamin Franklin dated 17tb of f
fuly 1788. Witness, t
HENRT HILL, executor. j
Tht under which this legacy is
left to the contributors being considered, it is r
• agreed that, it will be improper to conclude ei- V
ther to accept or rejed it, without further con
firieration ; for the the board appoint
Elliflon Pt.*rot and Coi nelius Barnes, to takeoff t
from Benj imirt Franklin's ledger E, the several \
balances due thereon, whi' h committee are re-*
ijuefted to obtain what information they can, re-
the debts and to c.ill a special meeting
to report.
j At a meeting of tb" managers 6 mo. 28, 1790 c
1 The committee appointed to examine the h
ledger of the late Dr. Benjamin Franklin and to ai
report thereon, now produced a ftateroent of | t ]
the several accounts, arranged in alphabetical or- 1
<Jer, <m th- whole of whicn there appears
a balance due to his eilkte, of five thousand five
>.un Ired and eight pounds fourteen /hilling* anil
cneppiir.y. They also report j they find divers y 1
blank and c-edits, the amount or whsc\» in
they are <>toot . bla to ascertain ; the commit'ee |ac
further report, they called on several of the per- } p
sons, who appear to be in debt, some of whom !
fay they have accounts 3gainft the dodlor, ex- j
needing confulerably his demands against them ; !
ethers lay the estates of their predecelTort have j
been fettled years since, and'divifioM made g'
so that they cannot consent to admit of any such in
antiquated claims. Upon the whole the corn- \v
mitiee conceive there ie no proba!>i!ity of the m
pr«du<flive, becaufethe of lim
itation applies against ali the demands on theau- Jj 1
thority this ledger, and it being a condition
to the bequeO, that the balance fliould
be paid by the contributors tf any (hould be due fn
from the teftatorseflate, the managers therefore of
cannot accept of this gift, at the ritque of pay
ing the debts of the decedent, unlets the contri- w
burors require them to do it : And therefore, in
Older to know their opinion, and to be enabled 011
to pnrfue their dire<s\ions, it is agreed that the 'J 11
clerk shall arlvertifc a general meeting of the con- ad
tributrrj to be held at the hospital on third diy, to
the thirteenth of the seventh month next, at 3 C o
, o'clock in the afternoon in order to lay be-fore
| them, an errr,adl of the uill, for them to pro- 1
[ ceed thereon as they may apprehend the occa- "f
requiies. P' 1
a meeting of the managerj, the iGth of the or
ytb month i 790 the clerk reported that he ad ty
vertifed the contributorl to meet to'conftder of the
Dr. Franklin's legacy, zcho accordingly met p rc
and made the following minutes o*2 thefubjeel, tJf
' V!Z ' hi
Pennfylvania-Hofpita/, 7 mo. Ju } y 13, 1790
At a &encr«l meeting of the corfibiitors held this 1
•day a the Hospital, pursuant to law, public notice
thereof bc-iu? givei> in two of the news-paper# of the
city of Philnaelphia, adveriifing them to meet for TVj
*he special purpose of conlirleringof a legacy left to
the contributors for theu r e of the institution by Dr.
Benjamin Franklin deceased, and to determine wnat Getl
is proper to be done on the occasion, the followio* \
contributes were 3 ,
PRFSKKT TWENTT-TWO MEMBERS. 3
An extract from thelaft will and tcftament of D . eei
Seniaroin Fianklin was produced the managers tors
and read—The minutes of ihe m2n?gers refpefting rep ,
thiscafe then read and like virile ihe report ot K
the.eommittet appointed by them, to adjust tr.c bsal
ancesot the said ledger, and the answers they receiv- prol
ed from a number of persons to whom they have ap- the
I plied, and who apoear t be in debt. Ah alphabcti- i* j
I eal lift of I the drbts taken bv the fame committee .
was also infpeftcd, and a general view t f the ledger mde
taken by the contributors, from which it appears, A
thatroafty c»f thedi btsarc fnjal! ; numbers of them 0 f \
are due from persons unknown, and all of them are .
fom thirty to sixty years o!d f , which precludes every VCI "
hope ot recoveiing as much as will answer the de a tat
ihands exhibited against the decedent. It is theie- inf u ]
lorethCvnaiimdus opinion cf the contributors p efent, mosT
thaL th s legacy cannot wi h ty be accepted—Ne- JJ
vtrthtlefs, beiou gratefully sensible of rhe aftivr pirt "
Dr.Fraukiin took in p'omoting this inlli- to tl
,ng <*nefit of hiibe
occffon,, they lament
| the oecefli.y ihry ate ur.de, of declining to Knpt 9 [
=< t ' h y L ™ w! -J'. "" Dr. »p,!re, atZ
1 but whi-hTfc * ""sb< i* recovered,"
but whi h the coi.tribu'orß have good rcafon to be
' lTl e *rtT, b< l ,heCafc "" U ; <1 " lhefe '"preflio"
[ - " ' ",1 r m" !h->uld return the lcdg
minute ?"%'">» e*ecu:or« with a copy ofthi.
1708. S ' g " cd bphll ' an(i t>r Hefi'e of the cintrib'j!(jr«.
iread w - r j * ME ' Ps Ml!Ef *ro.M, Prefidem.
W.tnefs Samuil Co A r, s, Clerk.
iS ; ', hc " cc cttl0 S minuie the managers
|S. appoint Slbfta.. P rot, Cn'neliui B trnes ,nd the trea
| fljrer, ,0 return Br. Frankl in', ledger to hu executors
'* j * C °P y ° f "V min " ie wh >ch the contributors
s-pa- J ma de on the occasion.
f the ' V>;njylvaniwHoftiitm}, yunn ;o, 1790.
Ed by , committee report, ,hey returned to Her.iv Hill,
0(3or °H C ' he ««""><« of Dr. Franklin the ledger with
I has „ m ! n " t "j f L thccon,ribu °'«»?r«ablvtodireaio. s.
rhich "n r order of a board of manager., at the
requtftof eighteen contnbutors
rere ' _ S.iUUEL COVfES, Clerk,
oper The minute relating to the plan us ihe new build
-1 the H'gi will appear in a future paper.
f the 1_
:y to At a numerous and refpe&able meeting of
b the Clt, ' Ze » S of Kent ount y in the State
D f Delaware, held at the Court Honfe in the
onth Town Dover, on Tuesday the Bth day
s on °, May 1798, in pursuance of previous no
oath tice for that purpose given,
ribu- Richard fcaffet, Esq. was tinanimoufly
I or chosen Chairman, and
ftne Joseph Hale, Secretary.
t RefolveJ, That the inftru&ions given by
:tary * ,lc P'cedent of the United States to our
men- Envoys to the French Republic be now
read. The inftru&ions were accordioerlv
d of read.
k ■ Resolved, That it is the sense of this
meeting that the administration of the Pre
uing °f 'he United Statei deserves, the
will h'gheft approbation of every citizen of the
,d„c United States.
Resolved, That a Committee of five be
»nfi- appointed ta draw up an Address to the Pre
• for en ' , ' le United States, exprefiive of
an<i Sentiments contained in tl«e foregoing
in resolution,
l as Whereupon Nicholas Ridgely, John Vi
ent* ning, Samuel- White, Elijah Barrat and
urn, John Laws were appointed for that purpose.
,or- The Committee retired, and having re
and t " rnec '> reported an address, which was
i a read ; whereupon it was unanimoudy |
bfo- Relolved, T hat the said address be signed *
e as by the Chairman in behalf of the foregoing
be- meeting, and be transmitted by him, to
inia gethcr with these refolutionsto the President ,
of the United States. 1
; r ' A lru « Copy from the Minutes,
uy, JOSEPH HALE, Secretary. <
ha - i
ible TH ® PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES
opc 61 r, /
WITH a solicitude eqnal to the impor- '
ties tant and inct-refting crisis which at this time '
ac " agitates the public mind, added to a nioft '
th" |j nccr< j desire to convince the world, that no t
inft domestic divisions, or foreign machination!, e
aimed at the independence of our country, '
the or intended to commit its honor, can ever S
t>/ succeed ; we, the Inhabitants of Jtent coun- "
ty in the state of Delaware, convened at j
/is OTCr ' * cave t0 convey to you our
is m ! >(t '' nce *' e a "d entire approbation of the
ei- Wl ' c > fi rt n and conciliatory measures you tl
have pursued to secure the bleflings of peace, F
int to preserve unsullied and iindiminifhed
off tne fafcty, honcui and independ«nce of the e
ral United States. P
As the conllitutional organ of the United it
States, to fettle and adjuil differences with o
foreign nations, we feel no hesitation in de-
90 flaring what we firmly bilieve, that you v
he have done every thing to rcftore harmony, p :
to and continue the tranquility of our country, L !,
" J that wisdom, policy and patriotism could tc
poflibly efftft , h
ivc Under this view of your administration, A
nil mu ch as we deprecate the calamities of war,
rrs yet when national disgrace and a tame fub
cb mifli nto the most immeasurable iufults and fj,
" I aggressions on the part of the French Re- t li
,m I P ubllc » Income the only alternative, we
x- j Can latel r you our most unqualified as
,. ; furanccn,—that as Americans who under- P°
ve ( (land the bltfGngs of liberty and a gt)®d v ?
de government, we fli.ill never hesitate a mo
ch ment in our choice. To avert these evils, pa
n- we are sorry to find that the most salutary rej
measures which wifdem and finctrity could ho
u . : P'efcribe, have not only been fruftrated and
-n dtfregarded, but insultingly repelled and
Id defeated by the basest attempts to extort
Je from our countiy, even without a profpeft Cl
re of retributiun, immenfc sums of money. P r
y- In every event. Sir, convinced of your ca
in energy, and patriotism, we not
:d on 'y en g a S e our titmoft support in the COl
le measures which government may ultimately
j. adopt ; but in cafe of an unavoidable appeal
f, to arms, we pledge ourfelvM to stand in
3 constant readiness, firmly to oppose, at all
hazards, evg-.y enemy, wh®m either a mista
ken policy, lust of dominion, or love of Ll
plunder, may induce to viol te our rights
~, or in any manner to invade the peace, liber- C
' ty or independence of our country. That
f the Ruler of the anivexfe may guide and
1 proteA the councils and government of the
United States, and long pre erve your valu
able life, is the sincere prayer of our hearts. Bri
Signed by order of the meeting, Sto
RICHARD BASSE FT, Chairman.
; T° the Citizens of Kent County in the
State of Delaware. c,.i
t Gentlemen,
Your resolutions and address unanimously
adopted at Dover on the Bth of May, have
been ptefented to me, by one of your Sena- Sl< "
tors in Congrtfs.M . LatiW, and by your
representative, Mr. Bayard.
I thank you for your tincere andentire ap- Bri<
probation of the measures pursued to secure '
the Llefiings of peace and to preserve unful- f
lied and uudiminiihed the fafety, honor and on
independence of the United States. T
Americans who know that the blessings ? rit
of liberty, aod a good government can ne- °" '
ver be enjoyed under national disgrace, and mill'
a tame sub iiiflion to the most immeasurable
insults and aggrcfli ns, can never hesitate a
moment in their cllorce\)f measures. Ship
When you engage your utmost support, „ ■
to the measures which government may ul- bclu.
'J
ment 'jdopt, the mfflaken policy,
pt of dominion^.or love ofp!uri(lr*r, which
hope ro a y violate our rights or invade the peace,
red," liberty apd independence of our country,
rfioL y 0 " giy e every affarantT which the gaftrn-
Icdg' can desire. Tliat supreme wifdorn may
F this gufde, and Divine power pr«te& the Coun
ftirs C, ' S ' r ' ns United States, and.
it. ' p>efcrvtf and prosper the citizens of
Kent is the prayer of
'? f ™ JOHN ADAMS.
Itols Philadelphia, May tl, 1795.
itors ■. ■
CONGRESS.
D. On Saturday, the House of Reprefcntatives of
[lill, tae Uaited States, went into a committee of the
with whole on the bill re. (fling loan-office certificates
O's. and final fettienitnt certificates, indents of interefl,
t c and the unfunded or registered debt credited on the
books' of the Treasury. After fillihg the blanks,
li'ld- w v' was *^ one without much debate, the com
mittee rose, and the house having concurred in
the .amendments,the bill was ordered ty be engrossed-
This bill suspend, so much of the act as bars thq
*or fiettlement o£ the above lecurities for'one year, and
-of provides for the payment of them, and the unf«nd
the et * regiftered debt on the books of the treasury. j
Jay S evc nd reports of a private nature were taken up, i
and disposed of. Tiic hjufe adjourned a little be
no" fore two.
ifly T/ie following bill more effectually to proteSl the
commerce and coajls of the United States, is
n-iiv before the Senate :
WHKREAS aru«!d vessels belonging to
' the Republic of France and citizens thereof,
have committed depredations on thecom
ow nierce of the United States, and have recent
rly ly captured the veftels and property of citi
zens thereof, 011 and near the coasts, in viola
his t ' on 'he ' aw °f nations, and be
re tween the United Statesand the F,rench nation,
Therefore—Be it enabled by the Senate
j and House of Representatives of the United
he States of. America, in Congress aflembled, j
Thai it ftiall be lawful forthe Piefident of the
be United States, and he is hereby atnhorizrtl to
re _ inllrua and direct the commanders of the arm
of ed velfels belonging to the United Slates to
seize, take and bring into any port of the U
ng nited States, to be proceeded against accord
ing to the laws of nations, any armed veftel,
1\- fitted out at any port belonging to the said re
nd public, or elsewhere, being commifljohed by
f e- the French government, and which lhall be
, e found hovei ing 011 the coasts of the United
States, for the purpose of committing depre
dations-on the veflels belonging so citizens
thereof—and also to retake any Ihip or velfel
ed of any citizen ox citizens of the United States
ig which may have been captured by any luch
0 _ French cruizer.
Nt Extra'a of a letter from Jeremie, dated 28th
April, 1793.
" Orders have been received from the king and
y. councilfor the evacuation of Port-au-Prince, St. •
Marks, VArchaye, &c. In consequence oftvbich,
S a proclamation has been issued by the commander
in chief to the inhabitants, to hold them/elves in
r . readtnefs to leave these places immediately. All
le the American /hipping are pressed into thefervice,
and may he detained tnio or three months.
" The brigand voar in this quarter is not over, 1
0 1"" no apprehenjitm whatever is entertained here
I, of the enemy ; and we are to be reinforced by the
r, troops from above, -with the commander in chief,
, r general Maitland. AUveJJfls in the Britifb ports .
t are embargoeds" '
Extract ofa letter from a paflenger on board 1
r the schooner Poll, now at the fort. \
e "In consequence of an order from England t
u they have began the evacuation of Port-au-
Prince, which is to followed by St. »
d Marcs, and L'Archay, for which purpose an
embargo is laid on all (hipping in the Britilh '
pofleflions in St. Domingo, and all veflels
calculated to carry paflengers or goods, are
impressed for Port-au-Prince, there to wait '
1 r^ers ' I "failed with them in the. fehooner 1
.. Poll, on the fame errand, but we loft the con- "
1 vjy on.the xlt May off the Caymetes, in com- I x
pany with- the brig Polly of Philadelphia— r
' .is I luppofe it will take at least two months in .
» evacuating those places, there is little reason ~
to expe£t the embargo off before that time ;
there have been several aftions in the grand 1
( Ance lately, in which the Britilh troops have .
) behaved with their ultial bravery. The (hip
, Nathaniel Bayley, Campbell, of Philadel
plua, arrived fafe at the Mole, on or about
the i6thof April, and is I suppose embargoed IT
- there." r ;
; i A
His Excellency William Bentinck, who ■was ap- J oJ
pointed to the government of the island of St.
1 Vincent, in the room of Governor iicaton, open- A
edthe session on Tuofday the 6th ult. with a leng
'hy speech, in which, among other matters, he CI
i particularly recommends the adoption of a well
regulated militia, the buixiiag of a healthy court
| house and jail, as well a* a gevirnment house.
Theaccount in Baehe's Aurora, of orders g. r
having been received (from their refpedfkive '
Courts) prohibiting the French and Spanish co
privateers from capturing any more Ameri- j vo
can vcffcls is absolutely falfe. Mr. Yznardi's J t k
letter (alluded to in this falfe statement) ( w ]
coniains nothing to that etfed.
Married—on Saturday evening last, by
1 r C L^ eW *. r * ers » Mr. Robert Maull
of this city, to Mifi Mary Engle, daugh
ter of Mr. Joseph Engle, of the Northern-
Liberties
GAZETTE MARINE LIST. Tl
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
fu*
ARRIVED. days cr
BtigMars, Earfton, ' Savannah 14
Sloop Rhoda, Rodin, St. John's 10
Mary, t'Homraedieu. N. York 4
Dolphin, Dimoek, Savannah 14 i
Providence, Pritchard, Virginia 10 P el
CLEARED. nd
Sch'rNancy, Wilson, G.Town, S. C. h" 1
Hunter, Manfon, Nixonton 1
Nancy, Eafton, Newport Co
Liberty, Buftick, Curritux |
Sloop Favorite Packet, Teel, Gonaives
Fora, Hammond, N. Bedford
■ Clarifta, Babcock, Stonington P QI
a • u ■ A ' n " Ved "t 'he Fort. day,
Brig Harriot, Vanneman, Fort Dauphin i 3 (
Fame, Godfrey, Wind for, N. S.
I Sai ed, the Revenue Cutter, capt.Price,
enacruife. J""
Harriot was boarded coming out by a
Brttifh frigate, and Captain Vanneraan sent wb<
011 board Admiral Bligh's (hip a 74, who was cl V>
cruiung off the Cape, and after being exa- ct'fe
mined wasdilmilfed. a ; m
New-Tort j Mny 19. },; s
ARK) Vtl). , ,
Ship Will,am and Henry, C.fcaden, Bay of Honduras f°
Sehr. Amity, Uermoo, j inil:
Ucy, Fj me, Corn-, r .\rimav
filch Sloop Hero, W.'lia, Po?r- i;. PriDCf
ace ■ B"?S«Uv. Montego Bayiqrfavs {■:, kf <?n
!.;c 6 h May, hrij/ Defiance, Scott, of New-Yrk,
if)'* bound to Savannah Lamar, out 8 days, lac. c £ '
■ern- »°n T 74.30 7 0
mav , * v " av 9' a Swedifli Ihip, Hamburgh
' boN nd New-York, !at. 37, 30
5 , p A / ri^ f {cbr ' Vcncl,a ' caot Roberts, from St. Ja
r ?* dc , Cuba '• fp<*ean Eftgljfn privateer belonjnnr to
Sos rrovidercc.
American pnV.es at St. Ja^o—RRTQS. Ann, 0'
, !savbrook, cleared Gracy, qF N York, concerned ;
Aaguftip, of Porfmojfh, for triaI—SCHOONER*.
Yeatman of Philadelphia, cleared t Fair Piav, of
Carolina, do; Lewis, of N York, do.; Indirflry,
oF Carolina, for trial—SLOOP Abigail, of Portland
cleared.
S ,,° Lift of Amerran layinfrat Laguyra l6lh Apri'.
Inc SHIPS-—Htnrirtij, rapt. Wicks, to fail sot No,.
.atea folkin 14 days; Roanoke of Edenton, Cap*. Pay-Je,
re", to fail for Ocrocokr in so dayj—HRJGS Ebza.ctipt.
the Campblc. to fail for Philadelphia in three weeks—
nks, SCH'R. Ree, 10fail for N-wbury in fix days,
om- A (hip from New-York, for Hull, out in days.
lin w as fpokein long 63*
flfed. Baltimore, May 18.
th<j Schr. Molly,, capt. Wife, 28 days from
3 "<t : Petit Guavc. Left there, brig Harmony,
: Shaw of Baltimore, to fail in 8 days ; fchrs.
up! I Thomas, of do. to fail in 8 day ; Ruth,
be- Beck,, to fail for do. in r 2 days ; brig Mol
ly, of Philadelphia. The brig Pwlly, capt.
Ogden, an j fchr. Hawk of this port, were
; s at Miraguane- April 29, off the east end
of Miraguane spoke an Englifli letter of
to Marque, who informed capt. Wife, that an
of, American brig had run aground on the weft
ii- end of Miraguane, and that the La Pom
)f- pee, Englilh frigate, was affilling them in
"" taking out their cargo.
£ NANTUCKET, May 8.
>n o. y, efterda >' arrived, the (loop Nancy, Mar
ite . from w hale Cruise in the Weft Indies,
ed 50 bbls. The conduit of the French Crui
| fers, even towards whalemen is such, as to o
h(j blige thein to leave the Weft-Indies, as they
to I !? rry . em ln o»%ethem to stand trval, and
n _ if acquitted., to pay corts.
to 1 mmnmm >
£ By this day's Mail.
:1 > 1
e- BOSTON, May 15.
(authentic.)
Confulur Office of the United States of I
e . America, Amjlerdam, flfarch 20. I
ns Mi 1 . Benjamin RuflTell, Boston, ,
el s>Rt
es I AVAIL myfclf of the firft opportuni- t
ch ty to acquaint you that the (hip America, t
Capt. Henfliaw, from New-York, lately I
brought in here by a French cruiser, his '
been immediately released by the Consul ,
nd nation ; and lam happy to add, that <
>'■ evtr y thing will be done here to support and I
h, protest the intercourse with the United {
f States, 3
\ n a My letters by the last mail from Paris <
■ e mention, that our envoys have lately had f
several conferences with the minister of so- "
r, reign affairs—refult not known- 1 am, r
re your obedt. fervt.
J? * SYLVANUS BOURNE. \
Another letter from the above gentleman a
fays, that Mr. Gerry had informed him, v
tb'it the Envoys had had three conferences b
•d with the miniller of Foreign Affairs, and [j
that the negociation appeared to be in good c
d train.
.The America, capt. Henfliaw was we
learn, bound to Amsterdam, and carried in 3
i, there. Cl
Is [lt is to Ve observed that Mr. Bourne's letter
3 does not mention the timt when tba conference 1 1
i t took place- It may therefore refer to those men r,
r tiofted in the dispatches which have been publiftied
. — H ' s l«"«r does not fay that tb»fe conferences J
_ were formal, or that our envoys had been officially
ruceived or accredited. L,
n It is fa a that on the IQth P-hi.ary, no answer .t
n had been returned to the memorial prefaited on
the 31ft January—and though government receiv
> cd by the fame vessel which brought Mr Bourne^
_ letter, difpatche, from our miniller at the Hague B(
J the y do not confirm the Boston intelligence | ' i"
od
t A Spanish fleet, confiding of two 90 T
1 & lln s » three 74' 8 three, frigates, .r- f
> rived at Porto-Rico from Spain, on the 10th '*
(April, having u ndtr convoy about 60 fail cc
of merchantmen. s "
The Britilh have ten (liips of war on the pe
. American coalt, in search after French Pt
cruifcrs. u *<
or
represents I pes.
On Monday evening, the Federal citizens A.
of this town, met at Concert Hal), and a- cn
j greed on a lift of Reprefematives tor the en- thl
j suing year, to be fupporttd yefttrday. A "r
1 committee of was chosen to diliribute ! CJ£
I votes; and the result, as follows, will shew
; that the Ticket was very fuccefstul. The
whole No. of votes was 1296 —of which
649 made a choice.—The votes were for jLo
Joseph Ruflell, jun. Esq. - . jojß j™i
Arnold Welles, jun. Esq. - . j O4 B ; anc
William Smith, Esq. - - 102 7 !
John Codman, Esq. - . 9 veil
John Lowell, jun. Esq. - . j'«>!
Mr. Samuel Cobb, ... j 7C ! ! lle
Colonel Joseph May, -- - B +o mat
The 7 composed ihi Concert Hall Ticket. 11
Dr. William r uftis, 498.
Befidts a number of Icattering votes as u
sual, none of which, except one, was high- Ti
er than 13. yi
SKI'
The spirited address from the young men ! f :r ,
i of Boston, which would do honor to the
pen of a Junitjs, and to the sp rit and firm-1 " a^
nefsofan Adams, has received above eleven !
hundred lignatures.
Our patriotic Seamen flock to jqin the
Constitution's flag. r-r-i
Portland has petitioned Congress for an A
aid of ic,oco dollars, for fortifying that and
pgrt. to d
the ,
, SHOCKING ACCIDENT. Lei]
On Saturday last, at Maiden, the follow- orde
ing unfortunate event took place As Mr. T
John Han oek* was'fitting in a chair after la 'S'
dinner, sportively inftruaing a young man wili
who had taken up a gun, which had been
charged the day before, in the manual exer- f t .)f
cife ; when Mr. H. direfted him to take to in
aim and fire, lie received the contents into 'hen
his head, which mftantane ufiy put an end N
to his exillence, art. 37. Let this he a so- P,i P
lemn caution to young people, how they l!, r '
sport with arms, and heedlessly trifle with T' 5 '
inftiumtnts of death. ' cr *
m
BAI>TI{rTOTE Ma*,.ig.
fcrgn ' )!S between the hours of tin
f rk, an d eleven, the fli'p Commerce, !y• r»sr at
51, FJi's Point, the; property of Mr. Johrt
m h Stark, K'as di (covered to be "on fire. A nam-
R ber of eui/.ens, with engines, went to lnV
t. Ja- afMance, hy whofc afliveexertionsthe flam«*
njto were £xtingtii/hed. Not havingbeen onboard
, n , we cannot (late the loss fuftamed, which
i;d i mtifi,no doubt, be ct)nfidera\de. This aces.
!R'. dent is fait! to jhavc been occasioned by at
pf man'b boiling pitch n the eaboofe,
lind _
Yesterday evening, nbout duflc, A fire
P'i • broke out in a framedwelling-hotifeinDock
yne" alley ' h ? l(3 *g"g to Mr. Philip Hall, whicK
qpt. was entirely con fumed,
.s—
---ays NORFOLK. May fz.
Fetal effeSt »f Duelling,
nm r. r ' B^ et ln havin g <0 relate, that on Wed'--
nef lay r.ijkt, departed this transitory life, capt;
ny, Butler of Philadelphia. His death we nn
irs. demand, was occaConeJ by a locktd-javj, which
th, took place from a hall lodged i» ;l, e back of fits
101- b y 0116 r atfon, and of which uei*a>e an
account an the lift u!t. Hi. remains were at
tended to the burying gr und on Thursday by a
number of refpeiSlaMe citizens. Noiwithftand
m? every poflible enquiry has heen made, no one
tell who Watson is, or where he is fled to.—
an *_he deceased never was in hi* company hut the
eft "'©kt before this unfortunate dueJ, which torjfc
m- P' ace "n account of their (! ; ff ring ip politics!
in - ...... ' ". 1
Macpherfon's Biues.
A NUMBEK of the Members of thisCorpsj
>r * taking into view the critical (ituation of
es, their country, propof.- to their brother sal, iers
- to meet at Mr. Dinwoody's, in Market-flrcet,
at 5 <■ clock rhii afternoon.
iey _
nil This day Publifhtd, .
AND ro.K S*t, E . Ax
Wm. Young's Book-store,
No. 59, Chefnut, corner of Second fttrect,
On >, .»,» Pafrr, ,vist E'egant Emrav;,*,.
Dedicated, rb the Phesidrbt of the United St
The Studies of Nature,
I n- I'ranflated from the French of
f James Henry Bern crdin de St. Pierre,
Bv HENRY,HUNTER, D. D.
very inpnitu, irterefting and intrusive
X work has fine® its fir!) publication, gone
11- through four fucceffi\» impressions, under th? au
a, thor's immediate infpeflicn ; besides a vttrcty of
1 y printed editions indifferent parts of the European
ag continent. '
No book display. a more fublirne theology i„.
u < culcatss a pur.r morality, or breathes a more ar
at dent and expansive philanthropy St.Pi-rrc eha
id blcs us to contemplate this universe with other
:d c y es 1 s furnifticd new argument* t0 combat
atheism ; has eftabli&ed, .bcyoni the power of
contradidion, the do&rine or a u: 1-j.-rf.ll provi
fZ Ce - " cilcd a warmer inter,ft in favor of
Id iuflcnng humanity, and has discovered sources
0 . unknown before of moral and istelleaual eniov-'
„ ment. ' '
The avidity with which the clergy and other
learned charters in New-England, l ave purchas
ed the Engltfl, edition of this delightful peiform
in ance, and the opinion entertained by them ; and
0, warranted by experience, that alihourl: written
f« be . fore the " Age of Reason," a part it con
(J tarns a more solid and compleat refutation of it.
than any thing published fiact, are perhar; a I'ufH
u cient recommendation of the Stud.es of Nature •
™ l 7 h , kh . thc Bounitl, the natural and chri;iian
e Phdofopher, the friend of «der and government
n are equally interested, and by which they will be
equally gratified.
A. no pains nor expence have been spared in
prccurirg luitable paper and able artilts, to render
1 ' ~w t r J t wort[ iy ef the public ; and as the Sab
d m-T. J e c ' x P r ff Ctf J approbation of it, the
publisher flatters himfeif, that gentlemen,, who cn
v acco " at of th f ba< l paper and print of f.„„ Amcri
p" the preference to he
r they p«cha[i ' or W " h 1 Cora P" ifo °.
n
s The Naval Gazetteer ;
:, Bting a complcat Geograph.cal Diftionary, con.airt
ing a fulU„d arrura'e accouf, alphabetically sri2 ,^.
U 'll ' e Uh "" a V njnd£ in
3 zrt^r ng r ia " t "^ u naf,b n
For anchorage: with a particular dcfcip ion of the
- several Bays, Crprs, Chan„e' s , Cove.-, Lreel. Cu,
! rents, Harbors", Havens, L»k«. Ocean,. Ha.
1 R-'»ds, Roc** Sands, Shoa's. Sound,,
Straits, Tides, Varl.nonnf rhr Compass fle In 1
getherwith . parttcuiar relation the (ha: eandao
e pea,ance a. fra, of the f-veral He.dla.ds, IhhnnZ
1 P « n '» l » l ". Piomo'Ho ics, and wha'cver i,of
ue o importance to the Mailer, Pilot, CWnander
or Seaman of any Ihip or vessel, in navigating the w
try element. b .b lutw a-
Comprehending
5 lc dir c, ar °'" faii "!S ln '° Out of the differ
en. Ports,Straus and Harbor of the tj Us ouar ennf
_ the world ; and for avoiding dsnjr-rs on rh,
and extended coall; in which more th in tvrelv t,""*
■ ! « wITh C? " >d
. explained. With ac.-reft f«of Charts a vo'i
It£ y 'rW Rev ' J° HN MALHAM.'
,1U Pounced the moil ufebjljr.d
the cheapest book in America, jt wajun
t C L ?■"" "" d " ,tle auspices oS
Lord Sandwich »htle he wrs at the head of thc Ad
' n/ (T E "K'" nd ' and lr »m which every
£ 'f arduous a oik, „ as
! d , /n 1 " " cvrr madc appeirance
' ot'h ' f r r " bta ' nCd Wi,h of
veil.,, and other gentlemen concerned in Nt 9
, "duced the puhliLr ,o prepare this edition „ ™
| Ports, Hrrbors,&c. have b encrrct'd
ab " ,t '"' a ' ld
may ar.
_________ «aw4w
Doctor Sheed,
W/"HO formerly liv, d in Ca.ter's Alley, i, re -
I VV quefled to call at the House of Mr Van.
, SKIVER, in Race Street, between N:nth and Tenth
I Slreet. where he will hear of a person who ear nd t.
ly big. his afutlance in a cafe of a very dar E crou,
nature. b
may 21 , £
Cavalry Academy PhiladelphiaT
1 SW ANN, Befpeclfullv informs the dif
• ferent troops ot' Light' Herl'e in thijcitV
and county that he i« ready to engage with thi m
to discipline tkemfelves and Hurjis agreeable tu
the ftrifteft rules of art ; his manege, open rid.-.
Leaping Barr, StaWes &tc. See. are in comujete
order. '
lieierms will be exceeding low. Sllo' Id a
large number offer, the charge to each individual
will be a mere nothing, though (he quantity
may make it worth his attention, which will at
a'l times flriaiy be paid : apd he flatters hirn
felf that such troops as he'may tvive the hon
to inftrutfl or super intend, will imply speak f, )r
themselves, having pre.cf for their evidence.
,*i' ilffAJVA'hts engaged the celebrat
ed Prvjian Hitzar, Leiuii 7). Grojfe, to t-a-'1
the use of the Bread Sward and small arm., oi,
easy terms, either by the week, month ot quae
tcr.
ma >* 21 djtWill be fold for Cash, j
At eight o'clock on the Evening of MONDAY
the eleventh day of June next, at the j
chants' Coffee house in Philadelphia, :f tN p
not prcviotrfly disposed of at pri
vate sale, A
THt FOLLOWING TRACTS OF <c
Valuable patented LAND, ti
In the county of Glynn, in the state of Georgia, 1
and the counties of Bath and Randolph in the c
state of Virginia, v
7000 acres at the head of St. Simon's Sound and
confluence of Turtle and Alatamaha rivers, ad- writ
joining the common j of the town of Brunfwick.
41000 acres on the-Great Satilla afid on the head An}
Waters of the Little Satilla, adjoining lands of An;
Wm.M'Jntofli, John Howell, & Ferdinand O'Neal. a
15000 aerci on Great Satilla, aojoining lands of I
Freeman Lewis and John Howell.
44000 acre. in Bath county, on both udc» of
Green Briar Rivtr, adjoining lands ol Jac«b War
rick, Daniel M'Calliim and lohn Dilley, including
3000 acres of prior furvcys. Air
41000 acres in Bath county, on the east fide of
Cowpafture River, and on both,fides of the wag- n ,
gon road leading from the warm fpringsto Staun- c '
ton, including 5000 acres of prior surveys
40000 acres in the county of Randolph, on Bu
chanan River, adjoining lands of Thomas Wilson,
and including 4588 acres prior surveys. r , f y
30000 acres in Bath county, on the ead fide of
Cowpafture River, on the waters of said river, and
of Calfpafture River, adjoining lands of Joseph
Grubb, and incluping 5000 acres prior surveys.
The Georgia lands will be fold in tracts ol one vv r
thousand acres each, the others in the quantities
and tra&s abov* described. ni
Persons desirous to examine the titles and drafts An
of the above mentioned land, will call for that g
purpose on Benjamin R. Morgan, at No. 41, I
Arch street ; proposals of purchase may be made
to either of the fubferibers.
T. FITZIMONS, An
No. —, Chefnut street. (
B. R. MORGAN, f
No. 41, Arch street. An
JEREMIAH PARKER, ,
No. 9, North Eighth street. t
may 14. dt» v
advertisement.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, that by virtue .
of a Decree of the Chancellor, will be fold
at Public Auction, at Snowhill, Matyland, on
the firft Friday iq June next, part of a trail of
Land called STRUGGLE, lying in WorceftercouH
ty, end all the reft of the Real Eft3te ol Joftiua
Townl'end, deceased, for the payment of his debts.
There will be given nine months credit for the one
half of the purchase money, and fifteen months
credit for the other half; the purchafet or purcha
ses giving bond with fecntity lor the fame, on in- At
terelt, from the day of sale.—All creditors of the
said Joshua fownfcnA are jlfo again notified to
produce their claims, with the vouchers thereof,
to the Chancellor, within fix months from the 2id
day of December lall, that being the day of the
firft sale.
WILLIAM WHITTINGTON, Trustee.
may 14.
liw
Joseph Kicardo, a ,
GF this City, Merchant, has alfigned his pro- Al
perty for the benefit of his Creditors, ts James ,
C. Fiiher, Samuel W. Filher, and Thomas Wilson.
All persons who have demands are re- A
quelled to furniih their accounts without delay—
and those indebted to make immediate payment to
the Snbfcribers, siding A flignees.
James C. & Samuel W. Filher. A
No. 13, Arch Street.
march n 4tawtf
Country Residence. A
A FAMILY who live Six Miles from the City,
wi(h to receive two or three genteel boaid- |
ers. The House is handfomtly lurni(hed; the A
Gardens, Meadows and Lawn are beautifully laid
out, and well (locked with the chaiceft Fruit. |
There are several Musical Inflruments amongst j
which is a moll excellent patent Piano Forte. The j
Family have a handforr e Coach, which may be at ,
the ferviceof the whole.
The Coach House and Stables are moll excellent
the Water good—and the Air unequalled in the
environs of the Town.
For particulars enquire at the office of this Ga
zette. dtf 16-
Tor sale. „
A THREE Story Brick House, on the north a
fide of Spruce-street near Second-street, ft
adjoining the wall of Mr. Jones's garden and ti
formerly occupied by David Lenox, efq.—This o
house is in compleat repair with back buildings,
confiding of a Piazza Kitchen and a handsome
Dining Room over Ihe Kitchen.
As any Person inclined to purchase will view
the premifes,a more particular description iscon
fldered unneceflary. J
The terms of payment will be one third calh,
one third in 6 months and the remainder in 12
months with interest. For further information,
Enquire of JOHN CRAIG,
Nt>, 11 Dock-Jlrtct.
tnay 16 t
Ross & SIMSON, t
HA*V E FOR SALE,
32 bales superior Madrafs blue Cloths
Carolina Indigo, firft quality
A few bales Baftas, Coffaes, and a Quantity of .
Bengal COTTON
Bengal SIJGAR, irt bags and boxM
Jamaica and") RUM
Bengal J j
april 2 j _ t
Thomas Isf Joshua Fisher, (
HAVE FOR SALE, (
AtNo.s,Dock-ftreet,near the Drawbridge, '
China ware nankeen dining setts, tea and coffee 1
caps and saucers
Nankeens, black fattins and taffiti»s
Pangem cloths, choppah romalls, and bandannoes I
China and English umbrellas.
Together -with a general ajfortment of European
Goods— among which are
Scots thread in boxes
6d. Bd. tod. X id. and sod. nails
Shot x. Crowley ft eel, Spanish brown and white
lead
Englilh feythes 41 to jo inches
ALSO,
Hi barrellsof kiln dryest Indian corn meal.
AcommodiousStereinDock-ftreet,
No. 7, to be let, three ftorios high, suitable for
any business. S 4th mo. s'h
Forty Dollars Reward.
RAN AWAY, on the 7th of April, a Negro
Man, named Ctlofgo-w, perhaps he may pass
by the name of lee, or may change his
name ; he is about thirty one years of age, nearly
£x, feet high, has a fear in the upper part of his wi
lder lip, a fmallpart being bitten out between the
middle and the corner of his month (I believe on
the right fide), his left hand has been very fore,
and I.K so at the time he ran away, by being burnt
fume time pall : he is a stout, strong fellow, and
has beer employed at a saw null a few years: he
went away in company with a negro woman of
Mr. Jolhua Lingoe, of this county. It is supposed
they are gone into Delaware State. Any person
that secures said Negro Man in any gaol, that the
funfciiber (hall git him again, (hall receive the
above reward. £SME BAYLY.
, State of Maryland, ">
Somerset Comity, april id. j may 4—Aw
TREASURY DEPARTMENT;
MARCH i, 1798. j
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, <
IN ptltfuance of the A<2 of Cengrefs passed on the sixth day of July one thousand seven hundredand t
nLety-feven, e>.titjed "An Ad laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper , and j
A a paired on the fifteenth day of DfCmber, ene thousand seven hundred and nmrty-feveß,, raHtJ A
•< An Ad ,0 postpone for a limited time the commencement of the duties lmpofed by the Ad ent .
tied « A» a!i laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper' , that from and after the
firft day of Julyenfming. the several Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and collec
ted the United States.
For every Ikin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or sheet or piece of Paper, «pon which shall be 4
written or printed any or either of the ioftrumcnts sr writings 1 oliowwg—to wit
Any Certificate of Naturalization, - - - - " 5
Anv Licence to pradice.or Certificate of the adm.dion,enrolment or reg.llry of
any Gounfellor, Solicitor, Attorney.Advoeate or Proflor, in any Court of the
Vn provMed? that a Cerrificite in any one of the Courts of the United States
for one of the said Offices, (hall so far as relates to the payment of the
doty aforefaid, be a fufficient admiffisn in all the Courts ot the United
States, for e«ch and every of the said offices.
Any Grant of Letters Patent, under thefealor authority of the United States
(except for lands granted for military services) - - 4
Any exemplificatien or certified copy of any such grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military services) - *
Any Charter-Party, Bottomry, or Refpondentia Bond, - - 1
Any Receipt or discharge for or on accountof any Legacy left fey any Will or s
ther testamentary instrument, or for any share or part of a perfor.al eflate di
vided by force of any statute of diftributi»ns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person amount whereof (hall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and (hall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, * - * r« I. ,
When the amount thereof (hall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
fhsill not exceed five hundrod dollars, _ - ■ - 5°
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional sum of I
Any Policy of Insurance or lnflrtsment in nature thereof, on any (hip, veflcl or
goods insured from one diftrid to another in the United States, 15
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum tor which
Insurance is made (haU not exceed five hundred dollars, - t J
When the sum insured (hall exceed five hundred dolhws, " 1
Any Exemplification, of what nature soever, that fhal pass the fcal of any
Court, other than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of tuch Court to
furniih for the ufeofthe United States or some particular state, - 'SO
Any Bond, bill single or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, prnmillory
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or with the United-States er any state, or for their
uferefpedively, - - • - *
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars,
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, 15
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 5®
And if above one thousand dollars, - - 7S
Provided, that if any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or notes (hall be f.ibjed to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforefaid—viz.
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 4
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dolla: s, 10
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 10
If above one thousand dollars, - •
Any Notes ifTued bv the banks now eftablilhed, or that may hereafter beeftab
!i(hed within the United States, other than the notos of such of the said Banks
as (hall airree to an annual computation, ol one per centum on the anneal di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders rel'pcdively, according to
the following scale. - - " 6
On all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - «
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, 50
On all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, "
On all notes above five hundred dollars, - *
Any ProteJl or other Notarial a&, - " • . r"n \xr«~
• Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfloo, or to obtain or fell War
»i rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
performed in the late war, - "
■ Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for lass than
five hundred dollars, - - ' , ,
> For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, 1
For more than two thousand dollars, - ' 3
Anv note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize to be exported,
If f rom one diftria to another diftrid of the United States, not being in the
fame State, • * " "
If from the United States to any foreign port or place, - - 15
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or eff.ds, made m any
• cafe required by law. (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained for
- I rent or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) 50
c Any Certificate of a Share in any Infirance Company, of a (hare in the Bank ot
1 1 the United States, or of any State or other Bank, *
' If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
- " , ," ~ J
\ ! If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
I The dutiesaforelaid will be colleded and received by the Supcrvifors, Infpedors aud other Officers
' , of Infpedion, in the several Diftrids, Surveye and Divisions of the United states, and by such other
persons as (hall from t. time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diftrids for
t. that purpose.
The Supervisors of the several Diftrids will, prior to the fijrft day of July ensuing, and as soon as
may he pradicahle, mark orftamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Velkim, Parch
h ment 01 Paper with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of thefaid duties ;Or
t, (lamped vellum, parchment and paper n.ay at the option of the Citizens of the United Staurf, be: oh
d tained at the rates prefcrihed by law, by application toany Supervilor, liifped.r, Officer of Infpedion,
or other oerfon appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diftrids
,s or otner pervon appom r GIyEN unitT my HtuJi at Pklladtlflia
s » the day and year abovetnentioned.
Ie OLIVER WOLCOTT,
. March TO. Secr " ar y °f the Treasury.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
Mareh 30 th. 1798.
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT by an ad of Congrcfs palled on the
19th diy of March, 1798, the following
alterations and amendments have been made to
the ad pal Ted On the 6th day of July 1797, en
titled "An ad laying duties on (lamped vcl
" lum, parchment and paper."
The (lamp duties on debentures or certifi
cates for the drawback of Customs or duties on
Imports are repealed.
Adifcount at the rate of seven and one half
per Centum, will be allowed by the Supervisors
or Infpedors refpedively, to any persons other
than Officers of the Revenue, who may pur
chase at one time or procure to be stamped, any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment or Paper, upon
whieh the duties (hall amount to Ten Dol
lars or upwards.
111.
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold at
the rates prescribed by law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for stamped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional price will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each (kin of Parch
mcnt, or Two Hundred Cents for eash ikia of
Vellum of medium size, whi«;h may he furnift
ed at the expense of the United States and pro
portionally for any lefier quantity.
Given under my hand, at Philadelphia, the
day andyetr abo r vementioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary if the Treasury.
To be Let,
(And poffeflion given on the Ift of May)
A genteel three story brick House,
22 feet front, aad 40 feet deep, with back buildings
and stables, at present in the tenure of Major J aok
son. Enquire at 187 South Third street.
April 2. §
JUST'PUBLISHED,
AND FOR SALB- AT THIS OFFICE,
» (Price 25 Cents)
1 Refle&ions on Monroe's View
: OF THE CONDUCT OF THE SXSCVTirS,
As published in the
1 GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
Under the signature of
: scipio,
In wild th Commercial Warfare of Franct istraceJ
to tic French Fadion in this Country, as its Source,
and tie Motives 0/ Qppoftion, 12V.
TO BE SOLD, »y
John Nixon & Co.
A quantity of very excellent LOG W OOD
NOW LANDING AT THEIR WHARF.
may 10. 3awtf
Frefli Teas.
Jujl Imported, in the jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sale y by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At hi* Compfing House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,
and by
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea, Souchong, Hyfon,Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, allotted ; black and coloured Lute
firings and Sattins, Nankeens, Cassia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
whale-bone flicks.
They have also For Sale,
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchiifs,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes.
march 8.
Now Opening,
At Wil li A m M'L aw s Saddle Manufaftory,
No. 72, Chefnut Street,
A general affqrtment of Horseman's
Piflols, dire£t from the Manufacturers in London.
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half CoYers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, vartouch B let, Va
lices. Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
April 9 dtf
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the loth
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at WM. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64. South Secoud-ftreet—
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at 7,,*
Dollars, where check books are kept lor ragifter
ing and examining in theft, the City of Wafliing
ton, No. 11.and Paturfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in moll of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N.B. The b*finefsof a Biotn, inbuyingand
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcownting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
I Lands, Houres, &c. &c. will be duly attended to,
by WM. BLACKBURN.
NovetnberiJ. §
The following Certificates of
JUNDBD DUET CF THE UNITEDSTATES B
STANDING on th* Books of the treafbry, were
forwarded for London by the (hip William
Penn, Captain Jofiah, which hath been captured;, «'
and the Certificates supposed to be loli, viz :
3164. 83. Deferred debt, in the came of Re*.
Edward Giddy, of Thredrea, in Cornwall, "
Great Britain, dated June I, 1797- Certificate *>
No. 10,072.
8011. I?. Six per Cent. Stock, in the name of *
Edward Horne, of Beris mount, Hants, Great C
Britain, dated May 30, 1797. No. 15196. ti
3610. 50. Deferred Debt, in the name of Will, v
iam Manning, ofOrmfby, in the county of Nor- v
folk, in England, dated July 10, 1797- No. F
10199. b
10183. 7». Three per Cent. Stock, in the name (j
us Jannet Mathew, of Upper Seymour street, r
London, Widow, dated OAober 31 1797. No. b
11810.
For the renewal of the above Certificates, »p- j
plication is intended to be made at the hid office of t
jheTreafury of the United Statss,—and all per- {
sons concerned aredefired to tak ■ notice.
ALSO —IN THE SAME VESSEL,
Fifteen shares Storkof the Bankof UnitedSutes in
thename of William Manning,of Orrpfby, coun
ty of Norfolk, England, viz. Three Certificate* .
for five {hares each, dated January 1, 1797.
No. 15981, »59 8 3. »J9 g 4-
For the renewal of which,application is meant to
be made to the said Bank of the United States, — a
and all persons concerned therein are desired to ,
take notice. ,
JN. KAUGHAS. (
Philadelphia, may 4.
The following Certificates of Shares '
IN the North American Land Company, Handing
on the Books of said Company in the name of s
Dan,el Lifter, of Hackney, in the county of Mid- j
dlefcx, England—viz. No 1151, reprefeming (
1309610 13105, ten shares—No. 21 $0 —1306610 ,
13075, ten shares—No. 2149 —to 13065, (
tenfhares—No. 1148—11509 to 11518, ten (hares ,
—No. a 147 —11*71 to 11480 —Amounting to j
Forty Shares, were forwarded for London by the .
(hp William Penn, vShich having been captured, ,
said certificates are supposed to be loft ; for the re
newal of which, application will be made to the
Board of the said company
Daniel Neal Lifter.
may I *d6w
New TEA Warehouse.
Alt. 39, South Front Street,
OP POSIT K POST-OPFJCE.
THE Ssbfcriber rcfpadlfully acquaintsherfricuds
and the public, that she has opened a Store tor
the sale of all kinds of teas, imported in the lat;
arrivals at Boflon and Philadelphia, (as under) and
which she is determined to fell o» reasonable terms.
It will be herconflantendeavour to give fatiala&ion
to those who please to favor her with their cutlom.
Country (lores will find it their advantage to deal
wi h her, as (he can at a moment's notice assort
them any quantity wanted, and will allow a
able crejit on approved notes.
Imperial, Hyion, Young Hyson, Souchong,
Hyson Stan, and Bohea—-Alfo, Coffee and Loaf
Sugar for sale.
Sarah Eaten.
April 1* sSuK6w
JUS 7 RECEIVED.
And for sale by W. Young, corner of Second
and Chefnut-ftrett, M. Carey *lB High-Brett
T. Dobfon, 41 South Second-ftrtet and the
Bo»kfellers generallv,
(Price 5-Bths ef a Dollar.)
BEACON HILL,
A Local Poem, historic and deforiptive 1
By a Lady of BoJUn.
ANALYSIS OF BOOK I.
Allusion to the surrounding ProfpeA— Invocation
to the River and sylvan Deities—to the historic
Mufe—Fi-fticih difc»rded—Dedication to Waft,
ington—The Aition ope* c at the Retreat of the
Columbians from Bunker's Hill—Gener\l Howe
—The Memory of his Brother—Death of War
rcn—Perfanification of Fortune and Fame—
-8 at Mount Vernon—called to the
r chief Command—Formation of th« Columbian
>r Camp at Cambridge—Natural, moral. or poli
tical History of the several States —Their com
manding Officers—Siege of Bofton—lts Suffci- j
19 ings— Negotiation for the fafe Retreat of the '
1 British Array—lts Departure—Appointment of
>r Congress—Declaration of Independence—Cha
* ra&er of the Columbian Soldies—-The Poet's
prophetic to the Progress of Free
dom throughout the World,
march 30. §
V&luable Stands for Bufmels.
FOR SALE—by the Subscriber,
Two Lots of Ground,
Situate on the south fide of Chefnut-ftreet, be
tween Second and Third streets : —o«e containing
[) eighteen feet, and the other seventeen feet, more or
ess, on the said street, and both extending, the
breadth, one hundred and forty-eight, more
9r less, to Carter's alley.
There are, on Chiffnut-ftreet, two two-story
BRICK HOUSES
(Numbers 80 and 8a)
Which may readily be made into one ; and, on
Carter's alley, there is a convenient, well buik
htree-ftory
!t > Brick House and Kitchen,
Almost new, which has two rooms on * floor
and a front of eighteen feet on said alley.
> ' This property is clear of ground-rent, and an
indisputable title will be given to the purchaser.
The three Houses will befold fepaiately or toge
ther.
■ e . Further particulars may b« known ob applica
tion to •
L, ZACHARIAH POULSON, jun.
No. 80, Chefiout-ftreet, or at the Library.
march 13.
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, proposing to contraß his busi
ness, offers this Estate tor Tale, on moderate
terms. Oln it are one Blast and three Air furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of ftonrs ; also a good Forge, all
in pcrfeft repair, as are all the Water Works conneft
» ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
1 were lately built tor the purpose of calling Cannon
m - for this State. —There are about two thou (and acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
»ht very fine arable Land, producing the belt Hay and
°a- Pasture. The Cannon lately manntatlHred there,
tier fully proves the excellency of the metal, which ii
(uperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
f to any in the world ; for not one ot sixty-nine gum
lately made, although some of the 14 were bored
I into 32 pounders, have faiWd on proving. The fills
• ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch o
oth manutafture, and a place ot arms lying in the ftati
at of Conne&icut, and only 30 miles from several land
' i„ g , on the Hudson's river, ani having every advan
t— tage that can result from a plenty of water iffuiuj
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace
and which may be converted into a variety ot othe
Xr " ureful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ng " ed wilh all the (lock and utensils, and hav« poffcflioi
™ a " on or before the firft «f June next, and preparatioi
tte " may be made in the mean ume for going into Blast inn
die mediately thereafter, for every pait will be delivejei
ir, good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. See, Fo
and tcr m», auply to Mr lofeph Anthony, in Philadel
ties, phia; Dsvid Brooks, Elq. one of the Reprefentaliye
: of f n CoDgrefs for this State ! Mr, David Waterman, o
to, the prenufesj or tO<he proprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEJLSOW.
Dee. t. 3 awJ
„ MaJTacbufetts DiJlriH.
By Order of the Honorable John Lov»ELt,
Esquire, Jsdge ©f the Biftrift Court for
the Maflachufctts DiftriA,
i* XjOTICE is hereby given to all persons
JIN concerned," That a Libel is "filed in said
Court by Chrillian G. Grutzmacher, late Com
mander of the ftip Corona, of and from Hairt
btirgh, and Henry Andrew Ueins as agents for
the o\rners of said Ship, against fnndry goods,
wares and merchandize, saved ft"om said ship
Corona, wrecked on Cape Cod within said EH I*
tridl on the 16th March last-—which goods,
wares and merchandize, were consigned to dU 1
vers perfonsin Philadelphia, in the of
Pennsylvania, and elsewhere—and that said Li
bel is filed as aforefaid,for the freight said to be
due to the Libellants on said goods. wares jmd
merchandize, and for necessary expences paia
by them which have arisen upon the fame-p
And that trial will be had upon the afore(ard
Libel at a Diftri«f\ Court to be h olden at the
Court'Houfe in Boston, on Monday theeigh*
teenth day of June next, at 11 o'clock, A• M
SAMUEL BRADFORD,
" Marjhal of Ma/fachufetU? 9
Dated at Boston, Jfpril J tawtf
2?d, 1798. \
FOR SALE,
THE whole or one half of a PLANTATION
on the river .Delaware, between BurHngton
and Bordenton (two miles from the latter), con
taining about 4CO acres ; 60 of which are bottom
and joo wood land ; there are 30 acres
of red clpver to cut this year (cxclufive of raea*
dow) but will exceed 50 the next ; and any quar*-
tity of manure may be had for the upland Irom th©
meacow without injury.
An orchard Of grafted fruit yielding between 6®
and 70 hogiheads of excellent cider ; a dwelling
houfe with a barn, liable, granary and other ne
cessary buil ing 9 go with out part ia cafe of a di
vision ; on the other are no-improvements, but has
one of the mod elegant fituatiens for a house to be '
seen on the river. The iand is of good quality,
iuitable for grazing or agriculture, and convenient
to market by land or water. For terms apply to
the owner on the premises.
Thomas St- John.
May 5 . eodtf _
Germantown and Reading Turn
pike Road Company.
THE Subscribers Commiflloners appointed by
an Aft of Aflembly of this Commonwealth
entitled, " An adl to enable the Governor of this
Commonwealth to incorporate a Company for
making an Artificial koad from the city of Ph -
iadelphia, through Germantown, by the rout
of Chefnut Hill, to the twelve nails (lone on
the Reading Road, and thence to Reading in the
county of Berks," hereby gi-ve notice, that books
are provided as the law dire&s, and that we
will proceed to receive fubferiptionsfor the com
pany's stock on the 28th, 19th, and ?oth days
of May next, at the City Hall, in the city of
Philadelphii,at the Tavern of William Buehois*
in Getmantewn, at the Tavern of Jacob Berr,
in Reading in the county of Berks, and at the
Tavern of George Phleger, in Potts-Town in
the county of Montgomery, on the fame days,
from ten o'clock in the morning, until o'
clock, P. M. on each day, when and where cer
tain of the CommifTioners will attend to receive
subscriptions accordingly,
april 14th,'1798.
BENJAMIN CHEW, jun.
CASPAR W. HAINES,
SAMUEL BET \ ON,
GEORGE LOGAN,
JOHN FROMBERGER,
ISAAC FRANKS,
JOS HEISTER,
1 * J. BOWER,
: DANIEL ROSE,
SAMUEL LAVERTY,
: GEORGE DOUGLASS,jun.
: ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
N. B. Fifteen Dollars to be paid on each
lhare at the time of fubferibing.
April 17 —eodt^oM
- Schuylkill Permanent Bridge.
' '"p'HE iubfenbers being the fix persons firft named
X in the Letters Patent, issued by the Governor
c of th»Commonwealth, bv virtue of the Aft of Gen-
era] Aflembly of the 16th ult. for inrorporaiing the
" Company —hereby give notice agreeable to the 3d
* fettionof the said law, that they have appointed, and
- hereby request a meeting of the fubferibers at the
State Houfc in the City of Philadelphia, on the thirty
firit day of this inflant May, at ten o'clock in the
~ forenoon, for the puroofes mentioned in the said 3d
fe&ion, which i« hereafter publilhed for the inform
ation ot the Stockholders.
Richard
yobn Perot t,
■' Matthew M'ConncU,
S IVilliam Sheaff f
,r George Bickham f
e WiU'tam Nichols.
'* Philidelphia, tft Mty, 1798,
Seftion 3; And be it further enabled by the authontr
ciforejdidy That the fix Persons firft named in the Let
ters Patent, (hall as soon as conveniently may be af
ter fealingthe fame, give notice in two or more pub
n ! lie Sews Papeis in Philadelphia, one whereof (hall
It be in the German Language of a time and place by
them to be appointed, not less than thirty days from
the time of issuing the firft notice, at which time and
place the said fubferibers (hall proceed to organize the
»r laid Corporation and (hall choose by a majority of
votes of the said fubferibers by ballot, to be delivered
in in Person or by Proxy, duJy authorized—one Pre(i
dent. twelve Dirr&ors, one Treafuier,and such other
e- officers as they ftiall think necessary to conduft the bu
finefsof the said Company for one year, and until o
a- ' her officers shall bechof»n, and may make such bye
laws, rules, orders and regulations, not inconsistent
with the laws of this Common we Itb, as fliall.be ne
cessary for the well ordering the affairs of the said com
pany • Provided always, that no person (hall have
more than fifty votes at any ele&ion or in determining
any question arising at such meetings whatever num
ber of (bares he or (he be enttled to, and thrt eacli
person (tall be entitled to one voie for every (hare
lt * bv him or her held under/he said number.
$ FOR SALE,
a" , Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient Cores, wharf, »e. fituateon
:e * ! Water street, between Mulberry and Safiafras
Streets, containing in front on Water llreet fif
ler ' ty-four feet, and containing that breadth eaft
nd i ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
re, j south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
'• 1 have the convenience of a public alley adjoin
i ing »n the north fide, and area very defirablefit
,nl uatioit for a a merchant, flour faflnr, or others
cd who may have occasion for storage of goods.
lU f This property will he fold on very reasonable
' a ? e terms for rafll. For further information apply
id. : to the printer.
,n- j april $
iug For Sale,
lCC * • 1 C
her A. good situation for a Country Seat,
Forty acres of Land, ;
iv> On the Old York road, within fight of Ger
im" mantown, about five miles from tht city;
,ed the whole being under good fence, and ia «x
---f" cellent order as pasture ground.
For further information and terms, apply to
j ONN Elliott Crssson, at his Office for the
sale of KealEftates Conveyancing, &c. No. 54,
f. High-flreet.
tu&fut