of States, ahd Advertiser.
Nommmx 1803. J*
For Charleston and George-Town, £
South-Carolina.
> THE SLOQ? HUI
CLEOPATRA,
yfi tuAM Torrev, majier, Deba
- TO « lying at Buctley'. wharf. <bove M».ke; te(
WHO AAV® r®R- ««, ■ ing t
s A f*w tierces of n w Rise, a few thoulaßd w htc
Xylite oak hogthead Staves. t ; on
' ' Jer " M I.OIWUN, , s;
The copper bottom -d ship g r ; t
Captain Loi-kyer. fteac
A confidtrible part of her gent
* i, -* : * = ~-^^^ :s ' :> cargo is already engaged ; to ] laT ;
fail with all aP * g VC
y No. HI, South Front Jireet.
fuR» IT- - ' 1- -j
For Sale by the Suhfcribers, Hai
The following GOODS, just arrived in the Ihip (hj
Pigou, eapt. Clay, from Canton, f orr
Bohea, j >•
Pyfon SVin, > 1E \
Young Hyson, J tuc'
Sugar in boxes and bags I woi
Aiad a quantity of Caflia j t ,
AiSO, to Be sold,
.rKTh e said ihip PIGOU, /
A we " ' tn,,wn ' failing Ship,
uak and eedar frame an cop- ,
-ho r*-afar.-» 76 f-« keel.
? 8 feet 6 inched bentfi, > a feet hofd; _ ind 6 feet the
betwoen deck*. , • T
Mordecai Lewis, nov
JeJfe Robert Wain, the
IViliiam Sanfim. thi:
jvioe xi. _$ IW . rep
—landing,
At Walnut Street Wharf, from on board the to
trig Amiable Matilda, William Brown, as
Master, from Bourdeanx, old
Clarst in hogiheads and in cases of a (n
surtmoß qualit*> J are
Brandy in Pipes, up
FOR S»HI 1 ne ,
Thomas y John Ketland.
Said Brig for lale, | an
With two pair four pound CAN- 1 no
NON, and one pair lllb. CAR
may a 9
LIVERPOOL, he
TBE sall ' so
M%.j LIBERTY,; co
Isaac V*iden*erce*, Matter, g,
good new veflel, fails well—
•tyins at WtUortu'Wharf, wil| l«i! about the'enthot ra
next month, acon&derabir part'of her Cargo being
No. 96, North Front Street. tc
N. B. The Liberty is ir.tended to re.urn one of oi
the firft fall veffelsio Lhis port. tl
may 19 ei
JUST ARRIVED, ti
in the brigGayofc.cap? Bingham,fromSt. Martins _
A quantity of SALT, U
of an exceellent quality 11
A sex? giioce Porter Bottles, new I I
And twenty eato Vinegar p
4fo, FOR SALE, 1
Enquire of I 11
Jehu Hollingfworth 13 Co. I c
No. »i, Little vA'ater ttraet, South. d
tiprjl *O. — — I f
. Cotton '
Cocoa
Anatto Dye, or 1 *
Roe°a /' ... I
Tuft arrived, per the schooner Three SilUrs, •vill- j ,
iam dhallcrof-, master, from Cayenne, 1 (
and roR salk at I
No. aa. Little Water-street, by I
JEHU HOLDINGS WO <TH Co. 1 1
Ume »o , - I '
— * "TO PE LET,"
jfnd pojfejfton given immediately,
THAT WELL KNOWN tavern house, ]
No. 333, in Front-street,
Near Poole's bridge—formerly the Cgn of the I
Ewe and Lamb.
Enquire at No. 91, North Sixth street. j
junp 1 < -J*- I
iViillenery tioom,
I-56, Market street,
Mm CHRTS TA L,
TNFORMa her <riend», that (he has received by
1 the late arrivals 'rom Europe, her ufnal » u ppJy
of the very latest falhions in XHLLENER.v , sc.
•with a grsat variety of Straw, Leghprn, ani
Chip HA I S and BONNF.TS, of the newest ihapes,
which will be opened this day.
fane 11 ™ J
Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries,
of th« ncweil and mod approved pattern*, entitled
to the drawback, just received,
AMB FO* SALE BY
Alex. J. Miller £s* Co.
No. 64, South Front street.
ttiay 18. ' **
DESERTED,
€>-K FRIDAY THI INSTANT,
rROM the readezvous ot the United States Ship
of w;r Delaware, Stephen Decatur, Cois
n-.aiuler, John Mc* Cocagh, native of Ireland, 5
eet, 63 4 inches high, aged 30— light hair, frtfh
(Completion, fotmerly resided No. 138, Shippen
.Street, and was employed at a day-labonrer in the
farming line, and enlisted as a marine to lerve on
board-laid ship for 11 months. Whoever appre
henrii fait' Deserter and delivers him at the Goal
of thi, City, {hall be entitled to fix dollar* reward
JAMES M'KNIGHT,
Lieutenant of Marines.
' jime 10
30 tons of Lignum Vitae,
FOR SALK BY
NICKLIN & GRIFFITH.
i juae 7 :u;)ist
PHILADELPHIA: IHURSDAT EVENING, JUFE ai, 1798.
CONGRESS. then, u
___ state.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. t nce g
_ have a©
Saturday, May 26. r "
Debate on the Bill ' more eJkltviA fro
teSion tf tie Commerce and Coa/lt of the |,cen jjj
United States. I doubt I
(Continued from Monday's Gaze te.)
Mr. Mac«n renewed his motion sot ftrik- ,^ e , in '
ing out the w rd " such " The arguments t houfjhi
which had ma e u'e of againll this mo- evrr re(
tion. had not convinced him of its impro- up tlie 1
priety. He did not think it would be a only to
violation of our treaties either with Grat- v,ltl °ns
Britain or Spain ; but if gentlemen think
so, it can be amended in that refpett- In-
Head of blaming him, Mr. M. said, certain t h Jn oi
gentlemen ought to be obliged to him for Mr.
having made his motion, because it had tleman
given them an opportunity of making ltudi- confilh
ed speeches, which they otherwise could
not have done. ' m o tio °
The gentleman from S. Ca-iuhna (Mr. caM f e
Harper) said his (Mr. M's) conduit »n mount
thi occafioD was such as gave the lie to his es nt
former sentiments This was not the most tion of
delicate way of treating gentlemen, but ers
such as that gentleman generally used. It '
would, however, have no effetl upon him.
It wa>, and always had been, his objeft to prjnt,
preserve peace, and as long as he had afi gle tionsy
hope left, he should not wi<h to take any withn
mea r nre to break it. It was with thi vi'w trfßC
that he proposed bis ameftdfufcnt W make
the bill general. wllf
What orher nations hare done, is not raßtcl
now the question. The oily question before Beta
the house is, what will it be the interest of our n
this country to do. He knew n<» good a pared
repetition of thr injuries we had received g 1 " 01 ; 11
could do. It had been said, we ought not
: to !o any thins* to offind Great-Britain ; c^ptu
as it was probable if we have to fight our tnow
old friends, we might have occasion f r the j s a i
assistance of our old enemies* But, if we Brit.)
are to go to war, he hoped we should depend laden
I upon no ally. He wanted to hslv< no con- .
neftion * ith any foreign nation. He be- , p|
lievfd our last treaty had done us 110 good, t j, at
and he wanted no more of them. He had vVht
" |no objc&ion to buy and fell with-them all, tend
' but he desired to have no farther concern as w
with them He did not think it was in
the power of any of them to hurt us, and <^° urs
he would do all in his power to prevent wi{h
foreign alliance', which could never do this 0 £ n
country any good, but which might do us pi U n
I great harm. 10
- The house had again been told that the ters
middle and astern.states ;re fafc ? and that
if troops are sent to the fouthrrn (Vates, they . j
will be Lfe alfcr. Mr. M. was.proceeding i Vlh
to fta'e that in the last war no man eaft,ward p ral
of of the Delaware was e.v t seen fighting in . t u d<
the southern dates, and that now the touth-; ing
_ em members (with only one or two exeep- ! fuid
tions) are fatisfied to be left to themselves, *
ns when the Speaker reminded him of the (he|
question. It was complained against that b|Jt
this country was charged of being divided. j
He believed it always would be divided in this
political sentiment. In leed, there is no- a oth
ftatc in the union, and but few neighbor- oty
hoods, which are not divided in this refpeft.
But was this any reason why they would (hc
I not join heartily in the defence of their bo |,
J country, if it were attacked ? However
l». different parts of the union may differ in has
political sentiment, when the question was a of
defence of the country againll invaders, he
was confident there would be no division _
upon it. And he thought it a proof the Ex- for
cutive Direftory did not rely upon any di- tee
Ul * vision in their favor in this count y, or they ,if<
I would not have dwelt so publicly on that it '
pomt. Gentlemen m'ght make use of an tni
o. argument of this kind in this house, in order
5 to catch the popular ear, but if is not true, fui
nor did he believe that there are ten people ns
in the United St tes that will believe it. ri g
I The gentleman from Connecticut ( Mr. WJ
1 Edmond) had said, that if he was sent a as
the commissioner on any business, and one half th<
of the people were to fa that the claims j
. which he went to prefer were not faund d, wj
2- he (hould not expe't any success in h s mil- ag
fion. Mr. M believed it ; but had such a
th'nff ever been said in this country by anv qu
body, mncli lefsby one half of the people : w<
Aby Every b dy believed our claims for rearcis
pply again ft France are well founded.
On the fubjedt of g.ving money, he be
lieved no man would be inclined to stand ou
„ as to th, idea of subjugation, he, looked up-
on it as perfectly ludicrous, and
ry to hear a military man (Gen. Shtpaid)
express apprehensions on this ground. He
thought he had known the, spirit of trei
itUd American people too well to have enter
tained such an idea for a moment. j N
Gentlemen have all along denied, Mr. J
■eet. M. said, that this bill is tantamount to a
declaration of war. If it were o. ly inte. d-d
to defend our commerce, according to the
I laws cf nations, it ooght to be nfedf general, J
.Ship as he proposed by &
Coia- but he believed it would be irl effeft a dt- j
5 claration of war. He belrev d tb«f.: who
, frcfli I f _ rtf d It generally intended it lhould J
• ?P r ' Ive that effed, and the reason they had
:; ;i" «o.r'fc.of w.„ mr
>pp»- ference to making an open declaration of
Goal war is they know i will be more popular I
WafJ than a declaration of war Would have been.
He had no doubt of it. j
He wilhed when gentleman had come to I
1 determination to go to war, they had
brought the question fully b#**
that it might have been fairly determi ed, 1
iuffead of 'king 3 ll "' e n9W * n * C I
list I
By John Fenno, N 4 ' 119 Chejnut Street.
tben, until they got the country into that
state. Ii the whole plan had been fetD at
nee gentlemen would have known how to
have a6ted.
r. M. concluded hy faying,' he did not
•nean to juftily the conduit of tay naiion in
Europe 'owardsut. He wit coniei'«i« we bad
been ill use, Iby the most of thera. He tuii J»o.
doubt the gentleman finm tmi;ht
haveenumerated moreiujtirie»comHi(ied,»gaiiift
us by foreign nations than fte had <dc»C. Was
ihe impreifment of our seamen nothiiig f He q
ts thought it the greatest inftilt whltfh any nation .
evrr received. It was, however, ufelcfi totake °
3- up the time of the houfit. Hn nude the motitfa,
a only for the purpose of replying to some obfe#- me 11
t. vationt which had been made againll it in coin N.
k mittee of the whole and which he was pre- effed
vented i'rom answering there, by the rule of the cou]
houlr, which fays no member (hall speak mote Q £ 1
,n than once to any question. n -i
or Mr. Bayard thought the eondufl of thegen . r
id tleman from N. Carolina was liable to the in- '"ft'
Ji'. confifteney with which the gentleman from S fels
Caro ina had charged it. That gentleman tells den
the house ht is a friend of peace. If so, his yor
r motion is in opp >fition to his sentiments ; be
ca*fe he has said he believes the bill to tve tanta
r>n mount to a declaration of war, and yet h - wiih- ,
lis es n. tto modify it, or make, if left i provo a- ' uc
id tion of war, but to extend it to two other pow- 't \
ut ers befi :e8 Ixancc. if ;
The ame«t<Jmdnt of the gtntlfrman is in no e d
way opposed to the principle of-the bill; but w h
he wishes it to he general, and «<>i app iod to jjj a
to France only. He would aflc which are,the n;»-
gle tiontwhichxbe gentleman delireste comprehend
ny within the pruvitions of this bill, telides the * r< -
- w French mtinn ?Is it tha Mritifh nanfen ? If it no
lice he, he wished to know up»fl what grounds ? be
Bv.Voi c gcnttrinfT a'flyp l"ijd 13 jr-. fc
war, 'll Might to be (hewn taa; wefliovid be war
aot ranted in a me3fure of this knd againfi Gieji-
ore Hriiain. He knew they had captured many of
;of our merchant vtifels j but are gentlemen pre Wt
J a pared t fay they were not captured on lawful ac
ved ground ? Will they fay th t all our trade is fcl
carried on so confiltently with our t eaty with th
. 10 that country, that there can be n ground . f f e ,
10 ' capture in any of our merchant veflels ? We
our know that to have enemy's property on board j- g]
the i s a fufficient ground for carrying veflels into a
we British port; and we also know that if they are m '
(n d laden with articles contraband of war, they are ve
, on liable to capture. And since the British treaty <ii
! came into exilteiice, Mr B- said, we have had Q f
j mo proof of any seizure having been made by m
>od ' that country contrary to the laws of nations.—
had Where, then, i« the ground upon which to ex
all, tend the provisions of this bill to Great Britain P 1
-em ias well as to France? When we find a nation «
i S ; n putting herfeff to great inconvenience to grant K
j convoys for our veflels from her own ports to a t
ours, are we to put her upon the fame footing t ;
ven . t with one who, contrary 10 trea y and the laws a]
th,s : of nations is every day seizing our property and
QU3 plundering our citizens, and wbo, when applied
to for fatistadlion, refufes to receive our min f- Cl
the ters? What other nation would this amendment w
. affeft ?It has been said Spain If she h*scom- n
, mitted depredations upon our commerce, Mr. a
y I B. believed they were notconfiderable : ahd he j]
d,n ff i believed if the enormity of the aOnduA of f
w?rd France had flopped short of its present magni
ig in tude, no gentleman would have thonght of tak- r
»uth- 1 ing this step ; and as it refpeias Spain, he could 0
t . eD . i find an excuse for her, as he did not consider her e
I as a free agent, but as a&ing under the influence i!
r , 3 ' of the French nation : France was anlwerable,
1 1 therefore, not only for her owir.depredations, v
that for those of Spain.
ided. Mr. B. cowld fee no reason, therefore, why
cd in this bill should be made to operate againfl any J
tto r a other nation than France. It was strange that
tihor obieaions should yet be urged againfl measures i
■ a for the protection of our coafls, though French (
pe 1 j privateers had entered two of our harbors ; yet .
rou . the gentleman from Pemil'ylvania, wi'h that (
tllr ' r boldnefe of affertiq.n so peculiar to him, tells
wever t he hosfe that the Prefidfiit of the United States
'er in has the power to give direflions for the seizing '
was a of privateers within the jurifdiflional line, and <
u r therefure, on that account, this bill is annecef
•r fary. But he called upon that gentleman to (hew
v '», on ans . good ground for that opinion. Suppoft,
e E ** for instance, Mr. B said, that a French priva
ray di- , eer was to commit depredarions beyond theju
• they 1 ifdidioal line, and afterwards come within it,
that it would doubtless come within the proviG-ms of
of an tnis bill to afford a remedy i but the gentleman
1 a from Pennlylvania would not fay th.ct the Frefi
° dent would have power to afford a remedy m
true ' such a cafe. He had no doubt that when one
'. eo P lc nation infringes the rights of another, it had a
it. r j g i, t to take measures againll it ; but this right
(Mr. was lodged' in the sovereignty of tht nation, and
sent a as that, in this country, does not-lie wholly m
e h-lf the President, but in Chngrefs, the President has
1: • . ,0 power to aa in the cafe. Congfefs only
jT I cjuM authorise repnfalf. Mr. B. excluded
m 7 with a hope that the amendment would be dil
s mil- j a g rcc dto.
such a Mr. Allen called the yeaj and nays upon the
>y any q Ue stion, which were agreed to be taken, and
;op!e r were at follow : j- E 4 S
edrdS Meflfrv Baldwin, MelTrs. Macon,
I Bard, M Clena.ian,
be- Benton, M'Dowell
nd ou I Bryan, New,
1; and I Surge fs, W. Smith,
ed tip- Clopton, Stanford,
•aifor I Elmertdorf, Suniter,
asl °, r ;j Fowler, A. Trigg,
Locke, V. Conlandt,
He Lyon, R- Williams
of t'r e I ao
enter- j SAYS.
MelTrs. Allen, Metfri. Hartley,
3, Mr. I Bad", Havens,
, t to a I Bartlett, lrt . er '
ite. drd! Bayard, Hindman,
, I Blotjnt,
t0 lh . e I Brent, Hofmer,
general, I Brocks, Im|ay,
iment , J Bullock, Jones,
ft a dt-1 Chainplin, Kittera,
ife who j Chapman,
rt.«uldl T.Claiborne, Machir,
W. C.Claiborne Matthews,
lc y had Cochran, Milledge,
'rt P re "l Coit, Morgan,
it ion of] Craik, Morris,
popular I Dana, Otis,
ie been. Davis, JI ■ Parker,
Dawfon, Reed,
| Dennis, Schureman,
come to I Dent> Sawall,
ley bad I Edmond, Shepsrd,
ongrefs, 1 Evans, Sinliicklon,
:rmi ed, | A. Foster,* Sitgreaves,
I a little 1 D. Foftcr, N- Smith,
J. Freot. an, Sprigg, matl
Gallatin, Thatcher, d uc{
GiUefpir, Thomat, us c(
Glen, J!?? 2% fro"
Goodrich, TiJjngh aft,
Gregg, v I; Tn«, »"' d
Grifwold, ' ch J
Grove, Var . gent
- Ha una, wou
Barpen, w <^°Pl
Harriionw J- Wtlliauls, t j len
7®* rp
Tlie question
going to a third reaolfg ; when , ..
Mr. Brent said, he voted against the a
nveijdment-offered by the gentleman from e( j
N. Carolina, becauie he apprehended its
effcdls Would be toinvolve usin war with cwy
countries instead of one. The amendment
of the gentleman from N. .Carolina .was tfl.
ftrikc but the word such in tW bill, in which
instance the commanders of our armed ves
sels would have been direfted by the Presi
dent to seize and take the vessels of any na
tions that fball have committed, o l ' are found
hovering on our coaftfor the purpofeof com
mitting d predations on the commerce of
the United States. As the bill now (lands,
it will only apply ;t(* French depredations ;
if amended propofed it w mid have appli
ed ro Gre t-Britain or any other country
whose fubj <fts or citizens are unlawfully Ipo
iliating out commerce—as he believed thai
the la >,5 of nations ftipnlatio..s of
treaties had been violated in reljtion to us,
not only by the trench hut t e British also,
be coufid-ned the tendency of this ame.td
rrcHOoiiPifcJfcc, "to. i vu ve 115 ia w<sj with
(ircat-J&riiatn, and be »iti. >» n
create >he number of foe* w' * whom we
were to engage in hostility. That b-was
accurate in his opinion, that the armed vef
felb of Great t ritain were at this time in
the practice of vio ating uur neutral rights,
seemed to be acknowledged by others, and
particularly by them.mber from Maflachu
fetts (Mr. Otis) who had opposed the a
mendment, wilh a fnggeftion that in the e
■ vent of an open rupture with France, it
might be expedient for us to call in the aid
I of England, and fuppofitig the amendment
7 might have 3 tendency to create irritation
between that country and this, it was lm
\ proper, that at this crisis it {hould be adopt
! ed. This reasoning of the gentleman from
t Massachusetts could only be derived from an
5 admiffian that Great-Britain didnotattlvs
5 time refpeft our n- utral rights ; for, as the re:
® amendment only authorized the seizure of by
j veflels spoliating our lawful commercej there m '
could be no danger that such a regulatio an
"t would involve us in war, or produce a cool
i- ness with Great-Britain, without a psevious th
'• acknowledgment that her armed veflels were > n
e ille al y depredating our commerce and con- 0,1
■f fequently wouldtr* affefled by tlie general tli
provision of the amendment, which, instead w
'd of confining our reptiCals to French, extend- "
■r ed it to vefllls of all nations, thus ailiug ar
:e illegally in relation to ours.
e > Thongh, Mr. Brent said, he was not, r«
6 > under any circumtlances, like the gentleman hi
from Maflachufetts for embarking our des
tiny with that of Great Britain in her pre- C
at sent contest with Frauce ; though he (hould 11
es consider such au event, as one of the most lt
~h deplorable which could befall the United «
et States; yet he wis willing and even studious g
Ito preserve peace with Great-Britain, not- tl
" s wuhftanding the many injuries we had re ai
n C " ceived from that quarter, on the fame prin- «
nd ciple from the fame desire to preserve the k
:f- tranquility of this country, he was opposed
:w to the bill itfelf He considered this bill n
le ' as perhaps determining,the question, whe- ■'
,a " ther or not there lhould remain a possibility
of reconciling our differences with the 1
o'f French Republic. He considered this bill
an as probably difpell/'iig every ray of hope d
:fi- which yet remained of a reconciliation ta- c
king place, and. he hoped gentlemen would
pa use a moment btforc thry adopted a mea- f
], a sure so serious and awful. Hfe did not fee |
that we are at present expofjd to any great- 1
■in cr danger, or cur commerce to nny great v
has extent to ravages more considerable, than |
n'y we had experienced for some time past.
j-,'' He acknowledged that our commerce had J
received great and vrpeated injuries frum
the France ; that it had long felt their injuries
and and still continued to futfer—yet under all
these circumllrnces, a d.fpofition has be<n
conllantly evinced, aid he b 1 eved was still
sincerely cheriflied by the kTeat mass of our
j*"' people, that recourse (hould not be had to
the last fatal refoit, till every rmde of ami
i, cable negociation had been attempted, and
evety rational hope of a peaceable adjuti
me nt of our complaints was exhauftcd.—
' Fn>m these impreflions, and at a period
uns' w 'l ,en our commerce wa* fuffering their un
-20. juftdepredations, we had sent coramiflioners
to the French nation, and was it proper un
til we were certainly advised that our com
missioners had left France, orthat every hope
of their effeSing the objeft of their mifliou,
'» was to be abandoned, to precipitate a mea- !
sure, the probable effect of w ,ich would be
to deftroyall pro/pedl of recantation even
if at the present momen{ Onr commiflioners
should be in treaty. Mr. B. said, that nei
ther the Difpatelies which we had received
from otirCo i miflionera, not any other m
'*» telligence from abroad, thathewas acquaint-
c ' ed with, compelled a bel ef that every pof
' libility of negociation was past } on the con
trary hand, it was perhaps ftriftly within
:r, the bounds of probability, that when the
Government of Fra ce difeovered an inflrx
"an, ible disposition on our part not to accede to
terms dithouorable oi disadvantageous, o
l'on thers of a less exceptionable nature would
y CS) be, and perhaps be r ere thi* have ceen pro
th, posed. But at cvevy w'ia> is now a
xm.
matter of co! jeaure, a .few weeks wjil re
duce to certainty ; r few weeks mult bnn<s
us certain and certain and dccilive account!
from Europe, and he was f r ppftponing
all dtlibe at on refpetfing the very plicate
fchj-'ft under confiderni >a, tiU this intelli
gence arrived. At p*f nt, he bdrcved it '
would be premature aqd inexpedient.toa
dopt the prt.poltd meaf\)r-e , a«d fe«*ld,
thcref re refuf; to give them his rWti*- j
The putfton onthe bill** goj«> to a third
re4<Hng, was taken by yeas and nayya» a * --
follows :
yeas.
Meflrs. Allen, Meflrs. Hind man,
finer, Hofmer, - .
Bartlett, Imla*,
bayard, Kittera,
Brooks, , S- Lyman,
Bullock, Marfrir,
Champlin, Matthews,
Chapman, Morgan,
Cochran, ' Morris*
Coit,- otis '
Craik, J. Parker,
Dana, Meed,
Davisj §churenj^n,
Dennis, " - Se«*ll,
Dent, Shepard,
Edmond, &ftnn.lcCofl,
Evans, SilJjKWtl,
A. I'olter, N.
D. Foltcr, Tha filter, :
J, freenmrt, hu'ius
Glenn, 1 hosnlun,
Goodrich, rUluiahaft,
Gnfwoid, V*i" Allen,
Grove, Vadl.vurt),
'Hanky, - •
NAYS.
: Holmes,
Bard, Jones,
Benton, Locke,
Blount, Lyon,
Brent, Macon,
Bryan, M'Clenachsra
Burtjefs, M'Doweell,
T.Claiborne, Milledge,
W. Claiborne New,
Clopton, W. Smith,
Dawfon, R. Sprigg,]
Elmendorph, Stantord,
Fowler, Sumpter.
Gallatin, J- Tiigg,,
Gitlefpie, A. Trigg,
Gregg, VanCorlandtf
Hanna, Varmnn,
Harrifon, Venable,
Havens, R. William*
i Heilter, _ 39-
The bill having been determined to be
. read a third time, the usual qu -llion was put
f by the Speak r, " For what day, Oiall it be
; made the order f" Monday a..d to day were
answered,
Mr Gallatin hoped Monday would be
s the day He did not fee the neceffi y for paff
c ing the bill to day. But it wafaid, thehoufe
. ought not to exerc'fe their difcretiun upon
,1 tliis fnbjeift, because French privateers are
j within our Capes. To this he rep id, that
[. if there was any invjfion of our jurildidtion,
g and depredations committed within it, the
President of the United States had power to
■ t repel them without this law- He knew h«
n had it, because the power is expressly give
f. to him in the law refpedting the Revenue
Cutters, and he knew the power had been
d used by him when a velTel aken by a priva
teer withi i our Jurifdi&inn lm-1 been Teilc
ri red to the owner by the Pr fident. He a
l6 with the gentleman trom Delaware
t. that the President had not p iwer to employ
». an armed force to make reprisals of vessel»
j. within our jurisdiction which may have ta-,
, e ken vefleh bel ingingto the United States. ;
d Beftdes, he Understood the Senate were
ill I not in feflion to-day, and therefore, the bill
e . i if palf-d to day couid not go arvy fvoocr tr>
y the Senate than if it pafled oa Monday. If,
le therefore, it could not kaften the final paf
■H sage of the bill by going to the Senate to
pe day he wished to know what other reason
a . could be given for so hally a proceeding.
] j He saw none He saw one reason for not paf
,a. fi.ig it. Ev_-ry ho ir might be expected to
ce bring dispatches from our iVliniller*. It was
,t. know , that a vessel was arrived from France,
a t which i 3 said to have brought accounts up tcr
an the Bth of April. Perhaps (he may bring
I information that would produce an unanimi
ty of op nioa as to the propriety of passing
a this b 11.
Mr. Craik rose to correctan aflfertion of
the yentleman from Pennfylvauia, that the
President had now all the power which was
necessary to proeft our property within the
I jurisdictional line. If he recolledVed rightly,
I ihe power given to the Prefiden in the law
I refpefting the Revenjie Cutters, was only
in( j i applicable to the Cutters ; butevenadmicting
| the Prelident had power the which thegentle-
I man mentioned, he wiflted to know whether
the President could employ it to as to giva
j effeftual proteftion to our commerce ? He
certainly could not employ it in the maner
direfted by this bill, which could alone be
Un ' effectual,
om-
IODC Mr - Vc,iabledid not any ffcntl-man had
. " doubted that the PfefiHn.t ot the (J.iite.l States ha 4
I0Q » the (jower to ule any lorce unricr li« (ommnid tor
nea- j the deleoce ot propeity wubin the jurrf(ti£ii m nf tho
dbe I United StStet- He had notth»l power by law only
I butby the constitution. But if thisisnot th- caTrl
even ihii bill could not, ai had al eady been observed.
iners tothe tenatclilt Monday, a»d be did pot fupp,f« the
net. | president wou d proceed to ait under it, un.il i[ bc
■ived I clme 3 law Me^ppore' l there would be a m.ij >rtiy
of the lioufeto pass ihu b|l!| whether it wa» oafftd
r . ln " I to -day, or on Monday; but he tho-jgjit some retyeft
aitlt- j due to the vnfhe* of the gentlemen who were deiir
pof- I ou ' usual °° ur fe being taken with thubill. It
Uan important quetlion to '.his counrry. We a
. . bout to appeal to armi in a cause which many gen
ltllin tlrnien had anxiously hoped m:ght have be-.n fettled
the liy negociltion, and wboa e not fully convinced thit
lfliS- tvc, y ho ? e of'h' l k ' n dV« done away. Andean
,". theft gentlemen be blamed for wiflii.ig to put off ihe
oe to solemn decilioo for oae day ? For his own osrt, he
IS, O- lliojlu never regret having his opoofuion' to
irould the!c Ifeps, He had t-!r 2 long time belied, that
, Dro . j cver^'ir.eaf«rc which waa brou-it torward, had in
V J vie .v a rupiure with Prance, and he believed thia w*»
" '•* a ac!oS:i £ 70 c- He hop-d, aj Uwfia OMO«rious a nature, gentlemen might dot be prefted to
Vote opou it to-:lay.
Mr. J Parker said» as it cmi!d make no difference
wh< rher this bill palled today, or on Monday* he
fnould W in favor of Monday, at it is poitibl? the
veflei which bed been mentioned might bring fomc
advicea from our envoya, though ha ex petted noth
ing more favorable from that quarter than had been
already received. A* it waa said a French privateer
was wi hin our boundary, it was probable (he might
commit Tome depredation which might be heard of
before Monday, which would convince every one of
thenecffTity of patting this bill.
Mr. Otis saw no reason for delaying the Daftage of
this biii rill Monday, arising from the pofQbility of
the vessel which was said to be arrived from France,
having brought anv newi, because if information
fnould be received from our commiflioneri which
would give a different afpe£t to our affairs, the Pre
fid en t of the United States could refrain from giving
these inftruclions. If this bill was patted to day, it
knight be reported to the senate on monday morning,
hot if it was podponed till Mondy, gentlemen might
come with frefo. motions and speeches, and produce
a farther delay.
Mr. Davis Imped the pafTage of thin hill would not
be in fitted upon to day. Thin fubjp& had but very
lately been referred to a fcle& committee, and they
had made an expeditious report Hehadjuft given
his vote in favor of the bill's pafling to a third :ead
»ng: bur, if contrary to the usage of the houie, he
should becailed upon to vote on the pafTage of the
£ill to day, he fhouid vote against it.
Mr. Bayard *as not willing to piftpone the third
reading of this bill to Monday, for the reason which
had been given, viz. becr>ufe the senate is not now fit
ting, -\fter'he bill had patted this house, its going
again to the senate was known to he a mere matterol
fern. Tnerefore, the moment the bill passes this
house, the Prrfident will be able to take meafuresim.
mediately as if the bil! had a&ually pafTrd through
all it* forms. But. until the bill had absolutely pass
ed this house, it would be impottible for the Prefi
dent to know to a certainty that lome members might
not, though they had hitheMo voted in favor oi the
bill (as they had heard one gentleman fay he intended
to do) when it cime to pals, vote againff it. Mr. B.
again (poke of the power of the Prelident as to the
protefiion of property within our own jurifdi&ion,
aod said that the French vessel which had been a Hurl
ed to might remain for any length of time within
our capes, provided it committed no hostility there,
without the Prtfideut's having the power to remove
her.
One word with refpe& to the probability of dif
patehes being received from our envoys before Mon.
day. The house had before been told of an arrival
here, ar.d referred to the coffee-noufe books, to prove
that our commifTioners were received. If the patting
of the bill was delayed till Monday, he the
house would be again told of an afr?va) at Boston,
Norfolk or fomc other part, and a asked
for, until we fhouid hear\vhether fomcthing might not
be heard to make this law unneceflary. If we
mean to aft at all, Mr. B said, the focHicr we begin
the better.
Mr, Varnum said, fineethe bill would become a
law as soon if pjfled on Monday, as to day, he could
not fee why the mot.on was obje&ed to. This guef
tion, Mr. V. said, was of the greatest importance, <
as it went to plunging the country into a war from
which it might r>ot be extricated tor many years to
come. Yet gentlemen aft as if they are afraid intel- (
ligence fhouid be received before this bill becomes a 2
jaw, which shall make it unneceflary. Indeed, it ap- \
peared to him, that there are Certain gentlemen in
the house who are determined to have a war with
France at anv rite. v
Mr. V. said it had been complained that mallufion v
had been made to the coffee-honfe bfM>ks of this citv
refpefting certain information hom Fra ice; he did
not ir.ink that was more out of order than what w.is a
btard one day-about French privateers having landed t
men on the coa't, another about being in our harbors S
and vefTels from tiience. All which fto- a
ries, he had no doubt were raised to influence the
of members of this house. The public would
doubtless f.*c them in this light. d
Mr. Sitgreaves said, as the gentleman last up ap- p
pea red to have some doubt as to the faft of a French 5]
privateer's being within the bay of Delaware, he
wculd read the information lately given by a captain c '
Canby, on Oath, at the office of the fccretary of Hate, g
[1 his certificate has appeared in all the papers; it a ,
fpea'*s of having seen a French privateer four miles
within the bay.] He would add, that with r
to the veflel arrived from Bourdeatix to day, (he ft
brings information that our commiflioners were yet o;
in Paris, but cot received by the dirt story. She left
Bourdeaux the Bth of April. So that the hope of re
ceiving any favorable news bv her could not be in.
dulged. Mr. S. crbferved, 'hat this bill was intended w
to meet a cafe of emergency, and it was proper, J
therefore, to get it paflVd as soon as pottible. If he i
saw it patted to day, he fhouid befure there could be '
no difficulty about it next week ; but if it was pod- et
poned till Monday, he fhouid be afraid of farther
time being spent udoii it The gentlemen from Ken
tucky (Mr. Davisy had alreadv said, it would no be »•
proper to pass this bill whilst our envoys are in Paris,
therefore, thoughh the question were postponed till 5
Monday, his vote could not be expefted. He, there- ±
fore, law no reason for the delay
The queflion on the bill's being read a third time W
on Monday, was put and negatived 49 to 41. The r<
qucftion on reading it a third time to-day, was then rl
put and carried.
The bill was accordingly read the third time and
patted by yeas and nays as follow ; 5
YEAS. w
Meflrs, Allen, Dennis, c!
Baer, 4 Dent, w
Rartlett, Edmond, 01
Bayard, Evans,
Brooks, A. Foster,
Bullock, D. Foster, tr
Champlin, Freeman, c /
Chapman, Qlen, lie
Coahran, Goodrich, th
Coit, Grifwold, f e
Craik, Grove,
Dana, Hirper, P
Meflrs. hartley, Schureman,
Hindman, Sewall,
Hoimer, Shepard,
Imlay, Sinnickfon, ha
Kittera, Sitgreaves, to
Lyman, Smith, 1
Machir, Thatcher,
Maithews, Thomas,
Morgan, Thomson, M
Morris, Tillinghaft, dil
Otis, Van Allen, ter
J. Parker, Wadfworth, to
Reed, J.Williams, u,,,
NAYS. 50
MeflTfs. Baldwin, MefTrs. Holmes,-
Bard, Jones, '
Benton, Locke, anc
Blount, Lyon, wo
Brent, Macon, : en
Bryan, a< j^
Burges, M'Dowell,
T. Claiborne, Milledge, ,
\V.Claiborne, New,
Clopton, W. Smith, 11 v
Davis, Sprigg,
Dawfon, Stanford agr
Elmendorph, Sumter, | onß
Fowler, A. Trigg, .
Gallatin, J-Trigg
Gitlefpie, Van Cortland r,IK
C» r fgg> Vcnable, .
Hanr.a, Vtnahle, . sam
Harrifon, R. Willjims. and
Havens, 4c. f e l #
Heifter,
Monday, May 28.
The usual hour of proceeding to buGnefs (
being arrived, the Clerk informed the mem- t^c
ber» pnfent that he had just heard that the w j )(
Speaker was so much indisposed as not to be ,
able to attend the House th s morning.
Mr. D. Fostir moved that the House t '
proceed to the choice of a Speaker fro tcm
pore, which motion was carried, the ballots '
were coikfted, and MetTn. Baldwin and
i >
I to Ru tie Jge being Called to tell the vetfs, it
cn „ e appeared that Mr. Dbnt had 51 votes,
, j,, which being a very large majority of the
the members prefrnt (indeed all except two or
three fcatte ing vote» to four or five other
>ecn nembrri) he was accordingly declared to be
ieer elefted, and conduced to the Chair accord
'Sht ingly.
t The Journal was then read a? usual.
The Speaker pro ten. laid before tV*e house
e of a letter and report from the Secretary of the
y° f Treasury, inclofrig an eflimate of an appro-
Uon P r| ation of monies for the compensation of
iich clerks in the offices of the. Commilfioners of
Pre Liang, and an allowance to certain -Loan
Officers, in lieu of clerk-hire, and to defray
j' ngt the authorized exr nces of the several Loan
i»ht Officers f3r the year 1798, which was order
luce ed to be printed.
Mr. Dennis presented an address from
rfrv the inhabitants of Princcfs Ann, Maryland,
hey approbating of the conduft O''the Executive
in its late negociations with France, and ex
ahr preffivc of their determination to fupp rt the
ihr future measures of government. Referred as
usual.
Mr. Harper proposed the following re
sj t _ solution for adoption :
•' Refolvea, That it is expedient to sus
pend all commercial intercourie bet ween the
(l | s United Spates and the French Rcpubl c. o
her possessions, until an adjnftment of ihe
>IT- existing differences between the two power
:f '- shall b- effeaed."
On requett of Mr. M'Dowell the refolu
led tion was ordered to lie on the table till to
B - morrow.
Mr. Brooks presented a petition from
Andrew Kennedy, of this city, merchant,
iin prayi.'g for a reftitiition of property
,c ' from his brig Gratitude, from the Hav,\n- 1
ve nah, by the Colieftor of the State of Dela
if- ware, owing to an error in the manifeit, agd
»>- which, from a delay in application to the
Colle£lor, he was not able to recover. Re
ferred to the committee of Commerce and
he Manufjj&ures.
ot table callings\-pon the Secretary of tfie TreS
-Ire fury, to lay before the House am ually, as
in soon as may be after the meeting of every ,
session of Congress, a statement of goods, Ji
j wares and merchandize imported into the I 1
f. Unittd States during the preceding year, I'
<•, which waa ordered to lie on the table I (
™ Mr. Sitgreaves called up the Refjluti ,
1. on which he laid upon the table a few days I 1
a ae;o, directing the Attorney General of the jl
'■ United Sta es to report the plan of a gener- I
" al law for the relief of Insolvent Debtots, I
which, after fomc: obieflions from Mr. Coit, j ■
n was agreed to, without a division. j c
A bill from the Senate was read, altering 11
s and extending the provisions of the law efla- J
i blifhmg the Judicial Courts of the United I '
» States, which twice read and referred to I
I a feleft commitiee of five members. I v
1 Mr. Sewall called for the order of the I
day on the report of the committee for the I f'
proteition of Commerce and the defence of I "
! country, prop sing an arrangement in one I
, corps of the Marines who a'e, or shall be es- I c
. gaged in the service of the United States, I b
and by a>ine)<ti>g them to the existing milita- I ai
ry eilablifhme' t—to consist of a Major and
suitable commiflioned and non-commiflioned 1 1
officers, 500 privates, and the necessary mu b
licianß. I [ a
Mr. Gallatin wished the committee 1 01
who made this report, would inform tfie I
House how many men would be wanted on I j]
board the several armed vefTels of the Unit- I ec
ed States.
Mr. J. Parker said the United States j
have three frigates, twelve ships and ten gal- j u
lies. The two 44. gun frigates will require | w
5 marines each ; one of 36 guns will need Ij n
48 men ; two vefTels of 22 guns each, will I fe
want 25 each ; two vefTels of 20 tuns will I
require the fame number; eight vefTels of P!
.16 guns each, will need 20 men each; and j
ten gallies each lomen. making in the v. hole
518, exclusive of sergeants and music. There I "
will be no additional expence attending the j te
change, except the pay of a Major, and|it w
would be much more convenient to be thus I m
organized, than to remain as at present. Jf"
Mr. Varnum wished to know whether \jit
these m«n would ever be together £b as to lor
enable the Commanding Officer of a Bat'al I ' 3 ''
lion to difciplise the corps. He believed l r '
they would be ■ separate in the different vcf- f Q C
fels, and that there wou dbe no means of gr
bringing them together for the purpose. Be- f <
fider, those Marines who have engaged in I w<
the service, have engaged to serve on board I
ship, and not on land—so that this law would I
have a retrofpeftiveeffca on those men, now I rci
to fay vJiey fhouid bath serve on sea and I int
land. I foi
Mr. Sewall could not fay that these K ec
Marines could be brou.>ht together to be I
disciplined ; but the Major would fuperin I fro
tend the whole, hear complaints, and attend I
to the recruiting service. He would also I
have to attend to the fortifications, and fake I a *
a great deal of trouble from the War Office j
The men would also sometimes be on shore. I f c f (
and without some officer is appointed, they 11 0
would be foltly under the care of the Lieu- fee
:enant. He believed upon th- whole much h«
advantage and economy would be derived I ;Jr
from it. I
The question being put upon the report,
it was agrsed to, 54 votes being for it. bo<
The committee then rof:, ntl t e Honfr I ere
agreed to the report, after a few obfervati. [ pei
088 from Mr. Gallatin, hoping that when Ar
the bill was brought in, this corps of Ma- n,a
rines would not be made a permanent p.irt of att
the Military ellablifhment, but onlv have the fro
fame duration with the laws for equipping ng
and keeping in employment the armed vcf for
fels. I cor
The f:left committee was direfled to re. " ol
port a bill accordingly. | ter
On motion of Mr. W. C. Claiborne, U ']
the house went into a committee of the ord
whole op the bill making alterations in the I tioi
present law refpefting Poft-Offices and Post- bel
Roads, Mr. Sitgreaves in the chair ; and as- I llla
ter making a number of amendments in the I auf
bill, the committee rose, and bad leave to fit I
3 K ain - lid<
2 Xlje ©ajette.
her PHILADELPHIA,
r j e THURSDAY EVENINQ. Jvne 21.
CONGRESS.
On Monday the House of Representatives of the
he United States on motion of Mr. Allcn, postponed
ro- the consideration of the bill for the prevention and
of restraint of dangerous and seditious persons, and
r went into a committee of the whole oathe bill f r °m
the Senate,"entitled " An ad concerning Aliens,"
but soon after Mr. Gallatin had commenced his
ay o( (VrTotions against the fir feiftion of the bill, he
an was interrapted by th? receipt of the MelTage from
:r . the President of the United St'atesj which appeared
in our paper of 'l'uefday.
After the reading of the dispatches was fir.ifhed,
)m a motion was made to print 1200 copies of them
d, [or the use ol the members.
ve Mr. T haTcbik hoped at lead Jooo copies
X- would be printed. It was well known that the let
ter of iV*lr. TaHeyrand had already been printed in
the French paper of this city, and he believed by or
as der of the Executive Directory. And he under
(food that printer had printed an additional number
re- of that letter for thefupply of persons who are not
h s regular readers. When he saw, therefore, the
j(-_ Executive Direftory, and its agents, taking extra
, ordinary means to spread that letter, he wished »o
e take equal means to publish the answer of our Com
-0 millions to it, which he thought not only fitisfac
le tory, but incontrovertible. He lhould think him
r felf deficient in duty, if he were to oir.it the oppor
tunity of moving for an additional quantity of this
reply to lie printed.
L 1 Mr. T. Claiborne did not nnderftand what
0 the gsntloman meant in faying he believed certain
persons are French agents.
n Mr TMatcher said, he omfidered the printer of I
t the paper to which he had alluded as an agent of <
the ('tench Dirc&ory, and he hoped !• on to lay be- '
fore th# house fatisfaiftory evidence of the fait. ;
Mr. Harper wilbed not only i,ooo,hut amuch (
i- larger number of this dispatch might be printed, i
d He hoped 5,000 at lead. Che truth of the positions (
e mentioned by the gentleman from MafLchufetts t
was top evident, to be for a moment doubted. It c
' had long been manifeft to him that France had her
d secret agents in this country, and that every means
had been made nfe of to extlte refiflaflte ta.the aiqs- (
e" Aire? ot' our government , and tp .• aife a fpiiit of fao ,
ticm in»He country favourable to the views of France, ,
s and the ail of Saturday was only one of the ramifi
cations of the scheme. A fait, Mr. H. said, had (
Y taken place within these few days, which he ap- (
1 prehelided *irould lead to the discovery of a trea
e fonable correspondence carried on by persons in this j.
country with France, of the most criminal nature.
He was, therefore, defirnus of counteraSing the ef- J
feiSiof any of their machinations, by publiihing the
truth tn the people ; and he promised the house he
s would do all in his power to bring this matter to
; light
Mr. Harrison was in favour of JOOO, as he
wilhed the people of the United States to receive
1 the fulled information on this and every other fub
-1 je<st. With refpefi to French age. its being in this
count y, he cared but little about them. He did
not fear any thing they can do. S
Mr. Davis hoped tie gentleman from S. Caro- w
lina would give such information to the houlie, as o
would enable them ta detedl any plan that was on c.
foot injurious to the iptereds of the country. If he |>
would do so, it (hould have his hearty support. P
Mr. Harper pledged hinifclf to the gentleman di
from Kentucky and to the House, not tote remiss tc
in probing the business he had fpoVen of. He had tr
got hold of some of the threads of it, and he hoped
soon to be able to developethe whole of the mis- ej
chievous proceeding. If (o, he (hould not fail to pi
bring it before the public, .nnd rely upon the alEd- [ii
ance of that gentleman and the house generally, to r ,
bring the authors, and those concerned in it, to con- (;
dign punishment.
On fuggedion of Mr. Sitgreaves, that i* would ! J*:
be well to direct the Secretary of State t« have a j
large number of all the dispatches received from W
our Cemmifiioners printed and didributed, the mo- f C
tion tor printing them leparately was withdrawn,
and Mr. S. afterwards laid a propufrion directing
the Secretary of State to get printed and distribut
ed copies of the whola of he dispatches. T ( ]
Yesterday, the House of Representatives of the
United States, again went into a committee of the t0
whole on the bill from the Senate concerning Ali
ens*. On motion of Mr. Otis, a new feflion was ■ so '
introduced declaring it to be lawful for any alien ! wi
sent out of the country to take with him such part ! co
of his property as may be convenient, and that any ou
property left behind him (hall be as much fubjedt to di<
his order as if he remained in the country. On no
tion of Mr. Harper, the Mowing words at the
condufion of the second feaion, were druck out,
" and continued to bard labour for and." The commit
tee rose and reported the bill with the amendments, T<
which having been agreed to, Mr. R. Williams
moved to dnke out the Words " during Ifat the
end of the second l'eaion, and to insert in their place, Tt
" so long a, in the opinion oftbc PriJJ.nt the public fafal
Jball require it," which was agreed to. Ihe bill was 1
ordered to be read a third time to-morrow. The
bill authorizing the defence of merchants vessels
lrom French depredations, was receicved from the er
Senate with amendniejts, which were committed
for to- orrow, and ordered to be printed. The bill am
granting the Secretary of the Navy th 4 privilege of wh
f' anlu . n g letters and packets was palled. The house cei
went into a committee of the whole on the bill mak- fan
ing an appropna ion for the new regiment of artil- sol
"'"j un year ' 8 B,oso dollars were appropriated; del
and the bill was gone through, and ordered to be 1
read a third time to-morrow. The house also went a(II
into a committee of the whole on the biil providing nei
for the enumeration of the inhabitants of the Uni- for
Si £"£ Sf " "" 1UI "' "f"" 1 "» ""
hi. Tt h: """ » =»» p.;
l S r £ f - / B l it^ na , f ! ed ' &c " That it (hall be fhj
lawful for the President of the United States 10
at any time, during the continuance of this i
act, to order all such aliens as he (hall judge wit
dangerous to the peace and fafety of the Uni- Tr
ted States, or shall have reasonable grounds
W fufpeft are concerned in any treasonable or ed
lecret machinations against the government j
thereof to depart out of the terntory ps the ers
United States within such time as (hall be >
exprefled m such order—Which order fh,ii
be (erved on such alien, By delivering, copy 'si
thereof, or leaving the fame at his ufiial a- be
bode, and returned to the office ot the Se J
cretary ot State by the marshall or other
perron to whom the fame (hall be direfled i
And m cafe any alien so ordered to depart'
shall be found at large within the United States
alter the time limited in such order for hi> de
parture and not having obtained a Venfe
from the President to relide therein, or hi?'
CPnvittipn thereof, be imprisoned fori 'term
no, exceeding three years, and (haH never a £
vluldtZl t0 onie a c '*ixen of the
Provided always, &- c . That if any alien so Pes
ordered to depart, (hall prove to the fat.sfac '
tion of the President, by evidence to be taken thr
ft! u « P " r °" or P ersons as President
shall dirett, who are for that purpose he^ebv
authorized to adminilter oaths, that no iuiurv wh
or danger to the United States, will arife"(om d «
fufienng such alien to relide therein, the Pre flat
fident may gram a licence to such to ftal
r , y
' remain time
las he (ball judge proper, and at inch .place as
Ihe may defignats. And the Pi'e/iJent Vnay
also require of I'uchalien to enter into a bond
"" to the ypijed States, in such penal sum as he
may dirett, with one or more Aifficient sure
ties to the fatisfaftion of the person authoriz
2T. E d by the President to take the fame, conditi
oned for the good behaviour of such alien
during his residence in the United States, and
not violating his licence —which licence the
>f the Pr fideiit may revoke whenever lie (hall think
ioned . proper.
i and Sert. 1. That it shall be lawful for the
.and | Preiident of the United States, whenever he
from ' may deem it necellary for the public fafety,
ens," |-to order to be removed out of the territory
d his thereof, any alien who may or shall be in pri-
I, he son, thisaCt ; and to cause to
from be arrefled and feritrStifttf the United States
ared fuch'of thole aliens £s (hail have been ordered
to depart therefrom, ai)J (hall not have ob
fted, tajned obtained a licence as aforefaid, ia all .
hem ca s es where, in the opinion of the President j
the public fafety requires a speedy removal.
'P les And if any alien, so removed or sent out of '
the United States Dy the Prefider.t, (hall vo- '
ln luntarily return thereto, such alien, on con- ;
'° r ~ viftion thereof, (hall be imprjfoned and confined \
to bard labour for and during life.
r Sect. 3. That every malter or commander
of any (hip or veflel which (hall come into any
tr^ e port of the United States after the firft day of *
J»o J"'y next, (hall immediately on his arrival, r
om- ma k e report in writing, to the collector or J
sac- ot ' ,er chief oftlcer of'the cuftomsof such port,
; m . of all aliens, if any, on board his vefTel, (pe- '
, or _ cify ng their names, age, the place of nativity, j
t [,j s the country from which they (hall have come, c
the nation to which they belong and owe alle- i
hat giance, theiroccupation, and a del'cription of
;a i n their persons, asfaras he shall be informed |*-
thereof, and on failure, every such master and i A
rof commander (hall forfeit and pay three hundred |
of dollars—for the payment whereof on default j
be- of such i ader or commander, such velfel (hall 5
also be holden, and may by such collector or j
ich other officer ot the custom bedetained. And i
ed. it (hall be the duty of such collector or other j c
ans officer of the cult ims, forthwith to treafmit I
•tts to the office of the department of state, true I fe
It copies of all such returns. .
ier Sect. 4. That the circuit and diftrift cpurts j
ms of the United Sates, (hall lefpectively have
* cognisance ot ail crjmes and otieiices .iginnit m
ac " this act.—And all jparthals and other officers iT 1
"> of the United Stages, are required to. execute i lil
all precepts and orders of the Preiident of the ct
United States, ilTued iti purfiiancc orby vir- it
P" tue of this act. ,
jV Sett. 5. That this a6t thai! continue and °
s be in force for and during the term of two
years from the palling thereof. ft
he ————•
j, e On MONDAY, at 12 o'clock, General Mac- re
t0 pherfon, accompanied by the Officers of dt
Macpherfon's Blues, waited upon the Pre- ca
he (ident ot the United States, and delivered
ve the following Addrel's :
b- To the President of the United States.
lis SIR, » to
Id Attached to the government of the United in
States, from a conviction of the bleflings it
0- which we derive from the just administration t i(
as 01 wue and equal laws; and anxious to vindi
>n care the character of our country from the as- V'
le perfions of foreign insolence, we, citizens of
Philadelphia, allociated as soldiers, under the P r
in denomination of Macpherfon's Blues,,beg) eave wc
fs to offer oiir (ervices, thro' you, to our conn- i<
try> fin
d Having on a former occafon, as citizens,
expressed pur entire confidence in the wiidom,
■° patriot fin, and integrity of your administra
tion, we now approach yon in a military cha- | * n '
0 racter, to pledge onrfelves in the presence of jof
God anS the-wortd, to defend againlt the at- do
tacks of arrogance, injustice, and lawless am- ev(
j bition, that happy (yltem ot government
"* which we have inherited from our fathers, P
_ cemented by the belt blood of America, and tur
fanftioned by our own approbation. del
' Relying 011 the jullice of our cause, truft adt
_ that under the protection of the God of Na- as 1
tions, we (hall acquit onrfelves as becornes no ,
the Citizens of a free country engaged 111 the
e neceflary defence ps all that ,s dear and sacred C ° l
e to men, tp citizens, and tp loldiers.PP r
With these sentiments and these views, we by
s I solicit ypur acceptance df our (ervices, and
„ ! will hpld ourselves.ready forypiir command ;
t j convinced that in obeying the summons of —'
j our country, we (hall comply with the npblelt rrr
a dictates of patriotic virtue.
WILLIAM MACPHERSON,
e . , Commandant.
June 18 th, 1798. A T O .
, to which the President returned the following 3
ANSWER. 4
> .^-' l ' zens °f Philadelphia, afTociatedas
f Soldiers, under the denomination of Mac
s pherfon's Blues.
; Gentlemen,
s THIS dedication of yourselves) in the pre- i
. (ence ot God, and the world, todefend, againlt
1 the_ attacks of arrogance, injustice, and lawless '
1 ambition, that happy of government, '
f which you have inherited frpm ypur fathers,
: cemented by the bell blppd of America, and 3
. anttioned by ypur own apprpbatipn, is very 4
fplemn and affecting. It has, I prelume, been 'q
i dehberate y cpnlidered, and well weighed.
: lam fully cpnvinced, that America must re
: allume the warlikecharacter.and that in a man
ner mpre decisive, arid universal, than at any s °',
■ former penpd. It is essential that (he (hould 3 '
' never forget the subordination of the military f
to the civ 1 1 power. Your sentiments on this , 1
pom., appear to be coneet. Cherifli them 6o
gentlemen in your bosoms, and encourage 7 i:
them in your associates, as your firlt point of
honor. » r -
Jidyingonthejuftiee °f °ur ca use, 1 trufl hv .
M s ? >U ' thatun^ er ?he. protection of the God ship
WC lhjll dcc ' l '' t °"rlelves as be- to 7 c
Comes the citizens ot a tree country,eengag er .
Ed m the necellary defence of all that is detr wi< h
and (acred to men, to citizens, and soldi- it
With these sentiments and these views, I of th
S yoUr r' CeS ™ I,h pleasure, and as soon mitt,
some necessary general arrangements can Ti
andcornm^fp ned be a^°i,lted ° f t '
Philadelphia, June is/"™ ADAMS "
, To JOHN A,DAMS, V J
President of the Unitbd States.
S i K.
1 R °WING up from our cradles in a iur
land of Liberty, and taught, by precept and
exprnence, to value the bleflings of a free
government, we feel an indignation at anv
attempt to stain its honor, or trouble its T" 1
peace, A
We are young, without experience ; it to"
therefore becomes us to be diffident in re- reccn
gard to measures of political practice. But '•"* a
w en the rulers of a foreign nation are en- c ? rifti
deavoring to prostrate our liberties ;_are
flat enng th-mfelves tkat the people of these
<wte* are taking a part Separate from the ,ma
itfuch time government, and m thl. A i r
fc rig their S fnce ov «t wVi c ca,cn *
into a bond dlff «ent profeffi ons and ? h,le me " "f
1 fnm as he P arts our land, are exorrir Vario ""
icient sure- probation of the meafurei of t ' lCTr a P"
l authoriz- we solicit that you would S ° vernme!l t;
e, conditi- 0 f duty and refpeft fr-nrr, 3 a tr 'hute
si,-; y°°:f^S&rSi, 4 ?*
sat 3S
our attachment, our confidm . • l ' Ur 0Vf '
til for the minillration, and the legiflative'blkl
benever he rfgard to our forc ; « *bod.e., m
Jie fafety, i nterefts> 6 ve " a» d»melt» c
'beYn'pn- If ' "otwithftanding the measures which
0 cause to havi j. been wifely proposed, and prudently
ted States applied and executed, for J 7
:n ordered difficulties wish the French th f S
: l»ve ob- should still continue in thefpfet „f J
President : t,on 3nd *buf eß towards ns'
removal. ' °" r <h«uld think it neceflW t„
ent out of c " an gc the lcene of negociation fmm »u
(hall vo- cabinet to the field of battle • ~f f e
on con- zeal, our activity, and our Vves to" ° U |
7d confined the foe that would .rake us flags' P
mmander ! „ At y° ur illustrious Ma.
e into any , , ® TR4TE of a great people we will
rft day of halt en to the standard of freemen and war
is arrival, nors.
lector or j Committee of the Students of Dartmouth
uch port, Uni-verjt y ;
llel, fpe- Joseph Aiken, Aaron Hvv
nativity, Stephen Be mis, I.ut er Fm 'r
ivecome, 7 J/ jn Fi/l /. tr
jwe alle- , » n- George Herbe l t
ription of Baffom, Benoni Fofham,
informed j Charles Baker, Simeon Lyman.
lafler and | Nathan Cutler. '
hundred! Hanover, May 28th, 1708.
1 default |
lector "or I T ° the S ' U , de T Umverfity, in
d. And '-he Jlale of New-Hampjhire.
or other i gen tlemen,
trenl'mit 1 ITH NK you for this address, pre.
re, true foiled to me by Mr. Freeman, your Repre-
I Tentative in Congress.
elyhave V ° Ur .d'ffidence, in regard to
s meafures of-pi-liMcal t w*ll becohie»
r officers i y ol,r a ? e > . at the pursuits of fcierce and
execute j literature, which have, as they ought oc
nt.of the copied hitherto, the molt of yr,„ r time • but
rby vir- lt behoves you to conf.der well the lituation
nue and 7 ()Ul cou try, at the time you are to en
-los two er o™ f'e stage of 1 fe, and prepare your
lelves for the part you must adi.
Br allured, that your tnb.Kr'of duty and
al Mac- reipect, your love, attachment and confi.
th? Prp denCe ' T W ° rds ° f P recio,,s import, which
elfvered "T bt confidcrtd h ™e as words of
course, nor as words of art.
tes. The offer of y ur zeal, aftivity and lived,
to repel the foe that would tmke us slaves,
: United in cafe your government should determine
ift rati on '• fcene of ne '" oci »-
0 vtnd" V- V° f b3i lle ' Vf >' am . i , able
1 the as- c 1 a e 1 You cannot all be soldiers j
izens of uc 'ety must be fuppiied with the ordinary
ider the P r ; effions and faculties, in time of war, as
egieave well as in peace. Those of you who feel an
• conn- 1 clination to a life of conger and glory, may
itizens employment for all the adivity and en
vifdom' tcr P nZC ° f ?' OUr S fH ' us in time,
liniftra- . '5 ne '"lreat you, and all my young
iry cha- fnends in America, whether fludents or men
ence of | of bufincfs. not to be dazzled by the fp! e „.
the at- dor. or intimidated by the horror of modem
rnment Rememb ". that the Roman Re
fathers, publlc , was r ev,ved in ibe fourteenth cen
ca, and tur y' that R'enzi was at famous as the mo
dern heroes—Petrarch was his friend and
tfe trust admirer—that atheism and blasphemy were
of Na- as prevalent and fafhionable then as they are
n ° W ' 3t Ita 'y- not a young
sacred coun - tr y> the only really growing em
p>re in the woild, be corrupted and ruined
ws, we by fueh extravagancies.
' s > and JOHN ADAMS,
mand ; Philadelphia, June 1 yh, 1708.
ons of •' ' y
noblelt WASHINGTON LOTTEIIY. No. 11.
Li/I of Blanks qnd Prizes
iant. Day's 5.
No. Dolls. No. Dolls. AV Dolls. Ao. Dolts
*6y 8385 asi?B x 37681 x
lowing 309 * 558 764 38384
4is * 819 q;6 X 414
atedas 473 9 °o* . 23^3 x 39'13 *
Mac. 10 « 20 & 833 Bix
J 43 * 93» 14914 x 40500
191 x 10104 x 51» x
lepre- 8o 948 * 6lo S 8 ? 8 *S
again ft s 7»4> 43004 x
awlefs 79 11,88 ' ** r S-59 *
iment, 925 X Tao ? 9 "74 556
ithers 3 ° 7i ' 5 4 481 x 45cf8 x
•a and 3 ° 7 X ,^°s7 * ' oo 088
is'very 499 1406 9 2 9S&i x 7 <6
■ been 147I 47 351 x 3,:54 x 957 *
narj 169 100 X
uftre- 886 9 °' .'99 546
i man- *{f 3 3«»*« 47630
at any s°4° 5 ° 4 ° 168,3 477 954 x
should 386 X 17043 x 331 '9 4«574
lilitary 441 „ iO3 ? 66 49«0 9
m this . 6 " x 18338 34ojx x 471
1 them 6ojß " 380 4 '9 538
mrage 7 |{ 3 x
:jint of 864 10985 x 5 n 937
O" The Committee appointed
I trnlt hy the Merchants of this City, to procure two
e Ood ships to be h.aßed te the United States,—are ready
as be- t0 confer with such of fhr Ship Carpenteis, Join
l>gag- ers and Blacksmiths of the City and Suburbs, as
s dear wish to undertake the builtiing ol such Ships,
ioldi- | t will be understood that one of the ships is to
5e built at the upper, the »ther, at the lower end
; ws, I of the City. Applications to be made at the Com
is soon mittee office, No. 95, South Front Street,
fs can The committee meet at 9 o'clock in the morning;
minted of every day, except Sunday.
ROBERT RITCHIE, Secretary.
j, me 16 di w
fOR SALE,
800 pieces of Sail Cloth
Es. 10 toss of !She«t Lead
Apply to
JOSS PH.. A NTHOUr V <%.
sin a iune 15 5
>t and 71 77", " *
a free A EA WAREHOUSE,
it anv orposfTs Tfii poJT orFiea#
•le it. T" E Subscriber returns her finccre thanks fer
X the "•enercttsencouragement Ihe has experien
ced Cnce her commencement in bnfinefs, hep leave
; e « It to acquaint her Friends and the Public, that Die ha»
in re- received a frefh supply of all kinds of Tea from the
JJ ut lat« arrivals at New-York, &c. and it will be her
re cn _ constant eupeavour to merit thair future support. —
She is in daily expectation of receiviuj k large fup
~ai'e ply of g«od CoffvO
the se SARAH EATON,
n the , may 39 t«JsfSrBy this day's Mail.
BOSTON June 16.
Yesterday arrived he'e, the brig Sally,
Capt. Havens, from Morlaix, in France.
From th® paffengrrs, &c we learn ;
That it was reported at Morlaix ; that
the French ambaffad >r to th emperor of
Germany, had left Vienna, in consequence
of some ill usage he had received from the
people ; and that the emperor had written
to the Dire&ory on the fubje£l :
I That the invasion of England was still
the stalking horse; but it was the opinion
of many, that it would never be tt,em,pted ;
and that the assembly of .the troops oh the
occasion, is merely to have them at hand in
cafe the Dire&ory (h"uld choose tu co jure
up another conspiracy :
'ihat a S{sa-i(h frigate had obtained the
leave of admiral Parker to proceed from
Cadiz to England, on what errand is un
known : And,
That a French 74 gun (hip, coming
round from POrient to Brest, had been cap
tured by the Erglifh.
The spirit of itnio% and purtf princip'es
of patriotism exhibited y. Ilerday in 'he pro- \
ceeding6 of the "Lfg'flnture, are highly ho- !
rorable to Massachusetts ; and while t' ey
mud -xcite the laudable emulation of her
filter states, will conv'ince the world that the
Maffachafetts Star in the Amercan Con
stellation, has not loft any of its original
lustre
1 The unanimous vote of the Senate, yes
terday, is highly hon> rable to Mr Dexter.
A number of gentlemen nf the county of
Hancock, wilh it to be kndwn, for the
honor of the county, thnt the Buxton, in
■which certain difgracefu! Frenchified pro
ceedings have taken pla.ee, is nt the town
of a si -ilar name in that co.unty,. jj.
• Miradei havt- not ceased, for the Chroni
cle writers do now admit that the expulsion
and d'eportatio'; of Pichegru, &c. was an
unconstitutional and unrighteous measure !
Daniel S ays, Luke Day and their fra
ternity, bellowed as loud about conlh'tu
tional rights, ( as their disciples of t 1 e preftnt
day do. But the gover ment of Maffachu.
setts kn-w h w to punish the one, and the
United States w'll know how to curb the ■
other. v .
LECISLATURS or MASSACHUSETTS JHNE 14.
Agreeibly to afiigrment. the house proceeded i
-to the choice of a Senator of the Uu tsd States, in
the room of the Hon. Theodore Sedgwick, who
declines being considered a candidate, and whose
timo expires jh March next ; —The whole number
of votes, wss 156—0f which the Hon. Samuel
Dextp.r, Esq. had 102, was chosen, aud sent up
to the Hon. Senate for concurrence.
[Yesterday, the Hon Senate concurred in the
above choice, unanimously, except one only.]
juns 15.
A relolve came dotva froTi th« Hon. Senate, re
queuing the Governor-o dire<sl the Qua-ter-Maf
ter-General, to provide and mount cannon for the
prcteaiiin of the sea coaH. By this Resolve,
50,0c0 dollars are appropriated frr the abov« pur-
Pofe-1
The Hon. Mr. Bridge brought down a Resolve
empowering the i reafurer-tntrorrow oT the Unioi
Bank a fnm not exceeding 50,000 do lars ; which
was read and concurred ia._
An afl providing tor the session of Castle-Island,
in the harbor of Bolton, to the.United States, and 1
for other purposes, as taken into a evv draught,
passed without a divfon. [Thisbill will be taken
up this day m the Senate ]
SALEM, (Mass.) June 15.
FRENCH FRATERNITY.
Capt. Ebc ezer Ward arrived here on
Tuesday from Turks Island. On his out
ward paflage, i2thof ; ay he was boarded
by a French privateer, which put on
board him the crew of the brig Elizabeth
Wm, Fiiller'on, matter, of Philadelphia;
which brig (be had t iken on herpaffag'* from
Teneriffe home. This crew informed capt.
W. that the fame privateer had catptured
the brig Patty, Capt. George Ropes, of
this port, who had a few days b fore, with
the assistance ef two boys, recovered her
from another SS an g of French villains, as has
been recently mentioned. On finding out,
■by threatening the life o 1 one of ihe boys,
that capt. Ropes had retaken his v.-flel, th y
'treated him in an it famous and abusive mat -
ner, and charged him of having murdered
those who had p-ifTeflßon of her. But the
contrary is known, as the pe pic have ar
rived fafe at St. Thomas's, in a boat which
capt. R. humanely gavfc them '■ he Patty
is now sent into Porto Rico. Her cargo is
.provisions; and 110 English goods—We are
the more for-y for Capt Ropes's fa;e, as he
has tftablifhed thefaft, that one American
with two-boys can beat feveD French fans-
Culottes.
Capt. Moulton arrived veHerday at Bev
erlv from -Petit Guave. He brought home
the nioftfr ofa Bollon vessel, who was tak
"tirbyTi French boat as he was going from
Jacquemelto-anotherFrench port, he and his
crew were set afiiore,and had not fi-nce heard 1
of his vessel, nor could find out what they
had done with her. Capt. M. on his pas- \
sage home, was boarded by a British frigate
and treated politely—by a French privaieer ■
and (though from a Freuch pcirt) plunder- ]
ed and abused. And yet there is a member 1
of our Congress (but he is a foreigner) who '
pleads that they may be permitted to go on! J
NEWPORT. (R. I.) June is.
Both houses of the ailembly of this state formed a
aaorum this morning. - (
A motion was made in the houfeor reprefffntatives *
and unanimously carried, for the appointment of a 4
eommitice to eor.fider and make report oz the expe- '
dicncy of making provision for the defence of the sea 1
coast of this Hate, and on meafun s neceflfary for cfteft c
ing that The committee cunfifts of twe [
members troin each eouoty.
CRALISLE, June 14. c
Committed to the Jail of this county on <
laft, a certain Sarah t lark, on suss
picioo of be:ng the person who has psifoned '
the family of John Carothers, Esq. in the '
lower settlement, of which Mr. Carothers
and his wife, have died, and several of the v
tamily now very ill.— In our next we expeft j
'ogive a more particular account of this v
dreadful catastrophe as well as of the female a
*»onfter who perpetrated it. 1
Xlje (gazette; 5
PHIL AD ELP HIA ,
THURSDAY EVENING, J™, 2t .
Ba~he fays he never has and never will
wittingly deceiv the puhlic.
t J i' 1 ? if , he has not PuMi'ftied a vile
falfehood when he charges our government
with keeping. back the latl dispatches from
our Envoys, and whether he hfc not tvit
tmjgh; deceived W.' waderj, by
pubhlhing the fame frtlfehood, and keep.W
h,s poor dupes in the dark by withholding
a ltate of facts r rom theiV view?
It is to b? rememhered very few per
sons who take the Aurora, ever fee any o
ther paper.
If Bache did juffice to his subscribers,
one halt of his paper would be 3 ccntra
, didbon to the other—or, the columns of
to day would coiifefs the lies and misrepre
sentations of yesterday.
It has been demonstrated that he pub
lifhtrd a moll villainous falfhood rrfpeaing
1 the time of the recepiion of Talleyrand's
letter bv the Executive. He has however
carefully kept out of his paper the refuta
: tinn ; inflead of this he has thrice repeated
the caluipny.
Bache fays the frigods of the Gove nment
of the (Tnited States want nerve. He
doubtless had in his " mind'* eye" the myr
midons of the despots of France The
FiOi Women of Paris—the Bn'chers of
Robespierre.. He wants every thing that
diftingatfhes sien from devils, who an tic i
pateswith pleasure the scenes w'ich would
desolate the Globe should the French fuc
cecd in adcfcent on England; ' '
i It is evident from the Statement puhlifh
ed by the Editor of the Aurora, that he
has a C rrefpondent in the Office of Foreign
Affairs at Paris. It is undoubtedly fad a'-
so, that the corr. fpondence relays to public
affairs, as it apprars the pack ts dir.fted to
tha- Editor, are sealed with the seal
OF OFF.CE.
Nothing is more evident than this, that
the union of the fever tl states, and the
! rallying of the people round the confli
tuted authorities, has inflifted a mortal
wound on the ho es of the infrrnal fafti n
who have brought this conntry to the verge
of a foreign war, and only regret that
there is so faint a profped of civil commo
tions at the fame time.
_
Yesterday morning, th£ mem bers of both
Houses of Congress, and a numerous con
course of refpe&able citizens, waited on Mr.
Marshall to congratulate him, on his
fafe return tpliis country.
In the Legislature of on the 14th
inft an act for ceding Castle Iflind, in Bollon har
bour, to the United States, and for granting the con
sent of the commonwealth for th.- U ited States to
purchase Governor's Island, in the fame harbour,
i and a tract: of land in Springfield, Hampshire coun
ty, was read a firft ,time, an.; ordered the next
day the 15th.
A bill for the prefervat on of Mall Trees, parted
to be engrossed.
Extra<S of a letter from a gentleman in 'he
Creek nati n, to his friend jn fort Wil
kinfo- , dated
Cuffalaha Square, May 12th, '9B.
"Ata me tiag of the chiefs an warriors
of this town on the 7th inli. Yawholomiro,
or Hollowing king, said to the fuperin
tenda. tof Indian affairs " I have a talk :
" it is a (h 'rt one. Tiie northern tribes
" sent it to me. IVe ha ve tried our Jirength
■' and are conquered. 7he bones of our old
" and bejl •warriors niiv rot in the earth or
" •whiten ou its fu face. We ha« r e made
" peaee and hope our youn ones will gr >w
" tip in peace and fnendfhip with th chil.
" dren of our red ;ind wh'te brethren, and
" we hope y our Creeks and Siminoles will
" follow our example, and that you will
" take the >alk arid inform us you have
" dure so."
The letter from Fort
ing the above, contains likewise the follow
ing, underditeof May 28.
" The Spanish garrifonson the Miffifi;ipi
are undoubtedly given up te the troops of
the United States. I havejuit received the
great news by fomj chic s wlio arrived this
evening."
7r&njlated from the Leyden Gazette.
ExtraS of a letter from Berne, of the leth of
March.
" We have parted ten days of disorder, of
agony, and contusion. The id of March in the
morning, news was received of the attack ot
the French upon Soleure : It might be said to
cause more joy than consternation, while we
were animated with ardor to repel a foreign in
vttfion : Nothing but anxiety for the cornnat ap
penred : but in the aftet-n on, »t» the news ol
the redudlion of Soleure and Fribourg-, that firft
effervefcence abated. There was entered into,
a new negoeiation, which came to nothing,and
served only to waste precious time, to (ow dii
truft, and to reverse the arrangements which the
firft orders hid eftabliflied. In the firft comiiat,
on the 3d of March, before A rbcrg, the tro.ops
of Berne and those of Zurich hid it firft fepolf
ed the French: but this success was of veryfeort
duration : harmony no longer exilted : whilll
some of the officers wiftied to adl offenfivelyy
others gave orders to their men to hold them
selves limply on the defenfive. These different
and contradictory ordeu of the officers inspired
inte the soldiers suspicions of treachery, and
cruelly exasperated them against their officers.
On the 4th at 6 o'closk in the morning, the old
government abdicated: the provisory govern
ment was appointed and eftabliflied. During
the day, a great number of troops entered the
city: the soldiers breathed nothing but vengeance
against those wh m they called traitors: they
wilhed to be led against the French : they com
plained loudiv of "the council of two hundred, :
which had fo'fuddenly checked .their aclmty,
and of those of their officers who had appeared
to them to be partakers of their conduit.
' i i At ? lfes °.f city, Rybi-ier,
>\ colontl Stetler, and captaifi Weifu, wer- killed
y their men. Many others (hired presently the
fame fate. AcLording to popular report, the
general D Erlach was also miierably inaffacred
by his troops ; and bis chateau threatened with
conflagration. In fine, in the afternoon, the
proDifory government was enabled to get fomc
. control ovf this popular movement, ar.d todif
tra(H its effeifts, by fending a p.irt of the troopj
to the bridge oF Gummenen, and panther to
Griuholu lhe sth of Mirch in the na.jrning
the alarm was beat throughout the whnlff city :
. eery man Inftened to put himfelf in a (late of
defence; the army of Italy approached our
walls. Our fiti/ation w.'s. crnfl.; fear, rage,
; ddfwr, uncertainty, dillrua,—evrry p*ffio»
in turns; and fomerimes all at &nce ;
the toiTm si unded • and the men, boding with
• , an ill attempered courage ran through the city,
to excite the people to arms In another quar
. | ter the fugitive* announced that their corps had
been attacked at 6in ihe morning ; that it had
cost the lives of many men on both fides ; and
that the pott must soon be furrvndered. To
wards the hour of ten, «he cannonade of the
► ' port of Grauholrz was hear . During thisthey
. we e resolved to keep up their refinance, when
■ all of a fuddcri, and whilst the unhappy
peasants flill made refinance, the flying artil
lery of the French came and prefcnted it felf
before thetow« and pointed its cannon.
While every thing was terror, wife men law
that no n?her course remained than to fur
i render : thef-r prevailed, and they obtained a
capitulation. Ir.ftantly the whr.e flag was hoisted ;
ard the drum announce*: through the the capitu
lation t i o'clock, all the Bernoifc foreca defilrd.
They had nine flags with their cannons D.for-.
der reified un il the Fren; h troops were diflribu ed
in-oquarters, she black HufTars entered into the
houles, demanded she monev,*watches. See With
out the eiry, the numberlefsexcef
fcs. The 6th, in the morning-, all the inhabits ts of
, theci-y were dil'aimcd. ine counfeHor Herbert, 1
, one of th»fe who had the nftoU obft.nately o-jpofed
. cver> concefCoii to tbe deraandi «f France. k<lled
himfelf in despair with a pittoL The 7th, thf army
of Italy (that of general 3 une) took uo their en
campment to a very great uwtybtr, i u the ciiy jn the
1 i?ht we beheln the conflagration of two houses : 1
Ihe villages of Kunitz, Bemo!i lZ> aod Gat- I
, zc ,
1 * rt m the a.mv of the Rhine, j
Schauemboure) eanto c "d i'lelf nihe villages which 1
e iviron the ctty, The gh. in Ihe morning, the army J
of the Rhine quitted us. to go to S''leu r e, and its
environs, u» wait new orders : to make up for this ,
deliverance, the army of Italy enieied the city to the
number of ten thou(3nd men. The fame day, the 1
Tec of liberty was olantcdon the place of the }
Hotel oe vi|le ; a grea: crowd of people coile£led
there, m;n and women, al! carrying the green
cockade (tne farn - colou with that of the - lcman
n'C re übiicj by,order of general Brune. The new ]
colours we • hoilt d during this ceremony by those ,
just relcafed f».>m jriloti, where they had been con
fi »cd lor mi!-]■)• aft ccs The general Biune, mount- i
ed in the tribune. addreflVd.a diicourfe to the peo
ple. in which he .ifTured fhem, 14 thai the moment of
tempt (I was p.-fTed ; that cairn and tranq iilitv were
about to eyiv ; r-hat the natural rights of man Lib- i
CTty and Equality Aere etiabl.flied ; that the people i
were about to b delivered 10m the oppreflion of 1
f heir great m n.&c.' tthecl r «'« as this njfcourfe,
were ' eard the cries of Vive la R public ! Vive lc gen
ctalßßrunte t la Grande Nation '&c In delcendir»g 1
Irom the common hJi, tne p»oceflr>n mad« a tour 1
round the Trie: general B une and Mr. Frifching 1
laid the firft of its con olidation."
From an Edinburgh paper,
Observance of the sabbath.
We have the pleasure to lay before the ,
public a copy of the propof d declaration
refpefting the obfervauce of the Sabbath
We are glad to find it is exprefled in terms '
so moderate and proper as mall render it ac- | '
ceptable to every fr endof Christianity. The *
proposing of any Parliamentary amendment '
ofrbe exirtance of the laws for the observance
of Sunday, has, we undcrtland, been post- ,
poned.
The following it thepropafed form of declara- )
tion.
"We whose names are her unto fubferib- '
ed, bein ; deeply sensible of the great impor
tanceofthe religious t>bfcrvanctof'h» Lord's C
Dy, o the intereftsof Chrillainity ad ci ,
vil focisty, do declare that we hold"it high- (
ly improper, on that day to give or. accept 1
invitation.to.ent- rtainments or assemblies, or
(except in cases of urgency or for purposes J
of ctiariry)to iravel, 01 to exercise our World- '
ly occupations,.or to employ our domeltics
or depende t in any thing inters ring with |
their public or pt ivate religions duties
" And, as example a d a public
tion of the principles of our own
more particularly at jhis time, may tend to, y
influence th conduit f others, we do here
by declare our resolution to adhere, ,?» fat
as may be prafticable *6 ihe due obfervaaue
of the Lord's Day, accjrding to the. prece- j
ding de claration "
GAZET FE MARINE LIST. '
I
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
Arrived yesterday at the Fort, the brig Jane, '
Vanfife. 13 days from Cape Francois : on her ]
pdlTage was boarded by the British frigate '
Regains of 4+ guus, and let pass. t
Arrived yelterday at Wilmington, tha fchr. t
Eliza, 15 days from St. Bartholomews, was c
spoke off the Capes on Tuesday morning, by c
tiie Ganges tloop of war, all well.
Schooner Helena PI 11 mfted, Corry, from c
hence to Port-au-Prince, is taken and carr.ed c
into C. Francois, vessel and cargo condemned. c
The ship Knterprife, Norris, 65 days from 1
Hamburg, and a schooner from Charleftou, a
are below.
CLEARED,
Brig fieaver, Elliott, Savannah f
Schooner Yeatman, Crane, Jamaica '
Sloop Nancy, Hardy, Cape Nicola Mole t
Active, Bak'cr, _ N. York c
New-Tori, f une 20. d
ARRIVED. c
Brig Henry, Jithben, Newfoundland
Schr Polly, Brooks, Savannah
Capt. Hehhen.-of the brig Henry, jt days
from Newfoundland. June :&, lortg. 61, spoke
(hip p3<Jlor, capt. Kemp, from N. York bouad 0
to London, out 6 da\s.
Last night arrived the brig Eliza, capt. Den- tl
nifon, 15 days from St. Croix. June 5, lat. 22. h
long. 65, was hoarded by the French privateer' C(
fchr. Leo, capt Jean Lauflelet, belonging to St
Domingo, wlio examined our papers and treated .
us well.. June 16, spoke the flonp Kliza, Eu J
gelfal, 13 day? from St Croix, bound to New
Yorx ; June 17, spoke a fchr. from N. Provi- w
dence bound to New-York. oi
Veff ls at St. Crtix. lii
Brig Catherine, Wickham, N. York w
■ Twins, Keeler, Philadelphi ]
Planter,/Hi wk ins, do
Schr,- Harriot, DeCi'fta, do "
Commerce, Ledue, Providence
Blake, do L
< V .r - ' "
er, Arrived br-g Porcupine, capt Srook«, armed
ed with 6 funi r ii, rfay».from St. Kitts. Cipt. ft.
he conveyed the following veflels through the ifl
he ands:
ed Brig Jemima and Fanny, far Philadelphia ;
ith hrig M.nerva, Newbern ; fchr Raneim; Polly,
he Norfolk, and the (loop Nabby, far Philadelphia
nc as far as the 1 ng. 64. Off St. Kitts fj-w two
if- French privateers, but on feeing the warlike ap
pi pearance ofr the Porcupine* they (heered off.
,e Left at St. Kitts the fallowing vejfels.
ng Ship Fortitude, Dyer, Portland
f ■■ Betsey, Hart, do
of P lly, Lambart, Bo^on
ur Ardent, Smith, ir Baltimore
;e, Brig Lucy, Runt, , -.Her Boston
on Ketty, Pliillere, r do
Fanny, Kellere,. do
th William, , Baltimore
v, Betsey, Blunt. Curratut
lr- Atlanta, GrifSs, Chsrlefton
ad Olive, ——~, do
ad Hiram, N. Haven
nd Amelia, M'CalJ, Newfield
. Libtllfd Vessels,
he Ship Mary, Cuchan, Boston
ey Schr Heifter, Delinn, do
en L[H of American Ships at Hamburg, hy Ccpt. /V/'Call.
py Union of Baltimore, Richard M. Ball, to
i!- fiil in two day. fir Baltimore, in ballad ; (hip
elf Willink of Baltimore, James Stewart, mafier, ar
— i.ved the 6th April ; bark Mope of Boston, Rod
w erick Crocker, arrived 9th April ; bri«j Almy of
ir- Baltimore. S Snow, arrived 7th April; (hip Per,n
a fylvania, Philadelphia, David W Jliamfon, to fail
) ; the lad of April; Ihip Volcair, Boen, to fail in 8
u - days for St. Pcterfturg; (hipjuna, Black, arrived
d. * n a ew days from New-York ; {hip Catharine,
tr-. Carney, in the river frem Baltimore ; (hip Swift,
rd to f.ul for India, last from New-York,
he
Jj." Norfolk, June 14.
Q f Tuesday arrived the fchr. John Eafon,
-t, ca P r - Cowper, 13 days from Cape Niclnla
rd Mole. Sailed in company with
Brig Diana, Calvert, for Norfolk.
Z Bn 's Delight, Fowler, for Newbury port,
he The fchr. Betsey Lloyd, Hooper, on her
'! passage from Jacqnemel to Baltimore, itcap-
imbthr Mohr. -
«t j Ifle'bug IndnlJry, paf
:h f?.ge from Anx-Cayea to Boston, ig also ta
"Y ken and sent into the Mole.
,l s Yesterday arrived thefhip Tammany, cap
,e tain Dangerfield, from Liverpool, which he
ie left the 20th April. Sailed in company
, ( j with (hip Alcomac, Beale for Baltimore.
:n Br 'S Dublin Packet, Gieen, for Ne\y
,l- Yo k. Lft there (hip Nestor, Rogers of I
w Portia.d, to fiil for Philadelphia about the
2 5'h. Lnn. 63, lat. 321 on Sifday the
3d inft. spoke the (hip Votowmac Chief, out
D- 11 days from this place to St Thomas.
™ O Sunday last the St. Tammany was ,
chafed frQm $ o'clock in the morning to five, 1
lc in the evening by a French schooner priva
of teer of 14 guns ; W. S. W. off Cape
Henlopen, and in 15 fathom water, the
, g privateer came up with the St. Tammany,
jr boarded her, and robbed her of all her let
's ters, papers and two bolts of canvas. Du
ring the time this pirate was plundering the
ihip, a schooner hove in fight, to which he
gave chace. The St. Tammany escaped by
her not being worth keeping, having only
ballafl on board
A fchr. from Boftoii, arrived yesterday,
|s informs that a Boston schooner was boarded
off Cape Cod. by a French privateer of 14
gvn», and plundered of flour.
* LONDON, April 10.
There is a paper handing about in the
higher circles, by which they are entering
_ , into a solemn engagement for the better ob
servance of the Sabbath. It consists of fix
articles or felf denial, of the following tenor:
That they neither (hail pive nor partake
, of hot dinners upon the Sabbath.
; That they neither shall give nor attend
Rou'es, Assemblies, or Concerts upon the
Sabbath.
' r i hat they neither shall ride out nor travel
, s V ll horseback, nor in carriages, upon the
j Sabbat*.
•s That they (hall exert themselves to-fup-
prefs all manner of employment and wordly
bnfinefs upon the Sabbath.
That their servants shall net be fuffered to
go abroad upon the Sabbath.
0 That they (hall, with their households
begin and cone ude the day with prayer to
j tne Almighty ; and attenH Divine Service
£ at lea ft twice in the cou fe ofthe Sabbath.
This paper, which is now in circulatipn,
has received thtf figitatures of 3 great num
ber of the dignitaries of the church, and a
committee, is formed for deviling the bell
means of making the religious obfervanccof
the Lord'p day general thronghout the em
pire. Many propositions have been made
tovyards this mod serious end ; the firft of
,' r which, as it would obvi ufly strike every ob
;e server of the manners of the lower classes, is
to (hut up all the public houfej, nns, and
r. taverns thr ughouf the kingdom ; and fe
,s co: dly, to pass a bill for the tripling and
>' quadrupling of all turnpikes on that solemn
n clay, so as to make Sunday-jaunting too
d dear for the pockets of the people. Many
j, other suggestion have been made, in which,
11 howev r, all the learned prelates are not
'> agreed.
The Opcra_ performances on Saturday
, evening are in future te begin earlier, that
a they may be over and the Theatre cleared
e before Sunday morning. This order is in
lc consequence of the regulations which' re un
der confidcration for the endeavorino- to
corre& th« public mann rs. -
s EDINBURGH. April 5.
Monday came on befote the high court
1 of judiciary, the trial of Alexander Leslie,
late book feller in Edinburgh, accused at
- the instance of his majesty's advocate, of
having publiflied and circulated a number of 1
copies of two seditious and blasphemous I
, books entitled 7he Rights of Man and the ' !
Age of Riafun, both written by Thomas j
Paine. After reading the indiftment> I
. which is very long, and contairsa numbtr
of extrafts from these publicatio s, Mr. Les
lie wasafked the usual quefticn, whether he
was guilty or not of the crirr e libelled ; he
pled notguiify ; and not having counfcl the
court named two counfei to conduft h'"s de
fence. file trial was then adjourned till
Monday the 4 th of May next, tnd Mr.
Lellie was admitted to bail. *
•J * " "* ; ■ . -V - V
Macpherfon's Blues.
BATTALION ORDF.R?,
. Jime lift, I7?8. *•
• €5" THff BLUES arc to aflinible, with Arms,
• on Saturday morning, at 5 o'dbck.
> ROBERT HEYSHAM, A<fj*tant,p. t.
Volunteer Rifle Company.
THE citizens of Philadelphia atid and Liherticl
] who arc disposed to jojn said company, in fuppott
of the liberties and independence of their country,
1 art informed that a meeting will he held at the
, house of Mr. Lewi* Young, the sign of General
, Wa&ington, South Sixth (ireet, on Friday even
ing ne*t, ar 7 o'clock, where a.4i*e, able bodied
men are invited to appoar and enroll their nanus.
Articles 0/ aflYxijtion may he f-en by applying to
Joho Haines, No 131, High-ftrett ; JohnC'yle,
No. 303, said (Ireet; Obadi h Stockton, corner
of Ninth and said street; David Simmon*, J?G.
11, South Fifth-ftreet ; and Abram Seines, Third,
near Race street
€T The different Printers ia the City are rt
queded to insert to-morrovr only.
June zi.
" Hade to where honor calls, and nobly try
" To curb the licentious foe, or bravely die."
First Light Infantry.
THOSE Young Men who are inclined to enrol
themfelveii in a Volunteer Company in the firp
port of government and defence of their country,
are hereby iitrited to step forward, and join tha
Light Infantry Corps, attached to the First Regi
ment ot the C ty Militia, commanded by Lieut.
Colonel Francis Gurney.
E. ROBINSON, Capti
june 18.
N B Applications will be received a; Lieut.
David Vo. 6, DocltHlreet, where th®
nil. sand 1 > gulations of thtcjmpany may be seen
if required.
Light Infantry—Attention !
THJi members of the Federal I-igbt Infantry Corre*
puny attached to the 1(1 Regiment of Philadel
phia County Militia, will
... . TAKE NOTICE,
That the Governor, lias beet) pie ale d to coramiflion
the'Oificers for the said Compjny ; and that they
have appointed Jucfday; and Fridays, at half part
4 o'clock in morning, for parade. The mem
bers are requelled to give their attendance accord
ingly.
I hose persons who are inclined to join the said
Company, are requi ted to apply at No. 163,
Vine-llrect; No 336, North Second-Ureet; or on
the Pa arte.
N. B Good Mule is provided,
june 19
, Light Infantry.
AN adjourned meeting of those gentlemen wh®
met at Mr. Yohe's tavern (Whi e swami,Rice ilrect,
on ihe i6th «)t. will be held on Satu day next, at the
| fame ; lace,at half past 7 o'clock P. m. Those who
may wiOi to join this corps, which is intended in
I conformity to the laws of Pennfylvaoia, to t>e attach
ed to one ot the Philadelphia Regiments of Militia,
are requeued to be pundual in their attendance.
((3" A committee \*ili fct at the above place every
evening this week fiom half pafl 7 olclock till 9 for
hepurpofeof rereivir g applicarjons. ja»*e i 8»
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT Proposals will be received for a Collect
or of the i'ocrTa* of th* present year for
th« City of Philadelphia—one for the North rn
Liberties and one for the Didriift of Souihwark, '
who will be required to give such security at Ihali
be approved of by the Board of Guardian*.
Any person defiroua of having either of th«
above appointments is requested to bring for
ward the names of his fecurries on or before
Wednesday next the Z7thinft.to
Ed-ward Shoemaker,
117 Market-(ireet.
j'ine it. daw
Wants rmployment,
A YOUNG MAN, who has served a regu-'
lar apprenticefbip to the mercauti e bufi#
nefsinthls city, wishes t» engage in a Countii g
bouse or office, writes a good hand and under-
Hands accounts, can be well recommended ar.d
security given if required. .Enquire at the,
office of this Gazette.
June 2t tautf
A Wet Nurse Wanted.
A Healthy Woman, of good character is want*
ed as a Wet Nurse. Apply at the Printing
Office of this paper. Generous wages will be giv
<n. ? t }"ine 71
JUST PUBLISHED,
Br John Ohm hod, No. 41, Chijnut-Jlrect,
Pi ice O»e Dollar and Seventy-five Cents, hancif /rncly <
bound.
A PRACTICAL VIEW
Of the Prevailing Religious Sjflcm of Profeffei
Cbrifliaiis,
In the higher and midd.e claiTes, controlled with
rea| chrfOtanity.
By William IVilberfercc, Esq.
Member of Pjrliame.it fir the county oj Ttri.
How charming is Divine Pbiltfopht !
Not bar/b, and crabbed, as dull foolsfuppofe,
But musical as is //polio's lute, .
And a perpetual feafl qf neßar'd sweets,
Where no etude J'urfeit reigns. Milton.
. This valuable work is calculated to be highly
ufeful and interfiling to the community, and
richly meriu a conspicuous place .n the library
of every individual.
The critic and the man of taftewill read it
for its accuracy and elegance ; the philofupher
for its mine of information; the logician for i*9
impreffiye argument ; the oo'itician for its man
ifest utility ; and the chriitian for its vital piety.
June to
Virginia Lands.
ON THURSDAY the 28.h inil. will be fold
at Public A U(sl inn, afthe Merchant's Cof
fee Houleat 8 o'clock in the evening, for calh,
the following bodies of patented lands in State
of Virginia—viz.
13,600 Acres of Land,
Situate on Big St«er Creek, surveyed in- June,
1784, and patented in July, 1786.
26,998 Acres,
Situate between the WrftFork of the Monon
gahelia and the Little Ktnhawa, surveyed in
November, 1788, 2nd patented in 1792.
TOOTMAN Co* Sluffioneers.
inn» r8 . ,3
ihe Kev. Dr. Blair's
DISCOURSE,
Delivered on the late National Fast Day.
Is just Publifhrd, by
James Watts.as, tif Co.
And m»v alio be had of the principal hookfeller;.
The firftvolumeoftheWeekly Magazine
With an appendix containing tl<e Prelidtnt'a
me(T<ge and ;he difpatfhes is now published*
and may b» had o' the publiflicrs'—the prin
cipal bookfel'ers in Philadelphia—by Gtx,rge
Hill, l>altimore and by Alexander Sorriervilio
?<cw- \ ork-—A few copies of the Difpatche»
may be had separate.
rc, y >S tod.fFrefti Teas. J • _
*juft Imported, in the Jhip Delaware, g A
Captain Cooper, from Canton, p o
And For Sale>, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At hi* Comptiag Houf<;, No. 54, Lhfcinut-ftreet,
AND BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Conpting House, Crooked hillet wharf,
Bohea, Souchong,Hyson, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS. .
ALSO, (
China Ware, aflorted; hrlack and coloured Lute
rings and Saitins, Namkeens, Cassia, large garden
and common Fans, fattin and Interring Umbrellas,
whale-bone {licks. ,
Tbey have also Fo» Salt*
Ell wide Persians, Baodanna Handkerchief*,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxefc.
march 8.
FOR SALE. T*
A THREE Story Brick House, on the north 1
fide of Spruce-street near Second-tlreet, ing tl
adjoining the wall ef Mr. Jones'* garden and a fterr
formerly occupied by David Lenox, This ftruil
house is iacompleat repair with back buildings, build
confiding of a Piazza, Kitchen and a hiiuifotne be mi
Dining Room over the Kitchen. _ the »
As any Person inclined topurehafe will view
the premifes,a more particular description iscon
fidered unneeeflary.
The terms of payment will be one third cam,
one th'yd in 6 months and the remainder ia
months with interest. For further information,
Enquire of JOHN CH , j n j
No. la Dock-fireet. . (
may »6 $
Military Colours.
At C. GULLAGER's
Portrait and Ornamental Painting Rooms,
• N«. jo, South Fourth, next to Chefnut street,
oppotlte the Friends' Meeting.
PAINTING on Clks lor Military and other ot
namental purpose; (in a manner peculiar to
himfelt) durable, pot ta be injured by the weather,
which for elegance of design, truth and beauty of /
colouring, neatness and maflerly execution, has
not "been equalled by George Rutter and Co. _ .j
FLAGS and DRUMS
Furnilhed with all poflible dispatch, oo the mod
rsal'onable terms. j,
Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck
ets, Cornices, &c. &c. executed in stile (not that
superb stile of modern elegance peculiar to G. R.) »
but in a workman ike manner, peculiar to an ar
tist mailer ot hi- prmeffion. _
Mr. G'JLtAGER, from a numberof year's expe- J
rience in Europe and this country, flatters himfelf
that prolcffional talents, punflaality, and reason
able demands, yrill meet the entire approbation of
those gentlemen who wi lpleafetoc.il at his Paint;
ng Rooms. §6vv tnay j. r
cife
NOTICE. tog
p. S. Gentlemen in town and
country, wishing for a supply of Colours and
Drunas, painted in a matterly manner, will no
doubt feel themselves obliged tor the kind can ion |
given Ky George Rlitter arid Co. not to trull fclf
fla'te-ing advertisements, but examine the work
oxecuted by t«th parties One view will satis- coi
ly them where the superiority iies,—fave thefpoil- ( ne
ing of good silks by G.orge Rutter's pencil—and ex,
diicover the requilites for the cuntra&ing talents pt
of Henry Frai'lcy, at Gemuntown. may 10. I
4 The IblTowing Certificates of j Li
FUNDED Di-BT OF THE UNITEDSTATES T
STANDING on the Books of the treasury, were i
forwarded for London by th« Ihtp William ai
Pcnn, Captain Jofiih wliich hath been tapturcd,
and ihe Certificatesfuppofed to be 1011, viz:
3164. 82. Deferred debt, in the name of Rev.
Jjdward .iiddy, of rhredrea, in Cornwall,
Great Britain, dated June a, 1797- Certificate
No. IQ,P7i. . . , f ! St
Boji. J5. Six per Cent. Stock, in the name of j
Edward Horne, of Bevis mount, Hants, Great
Britain, dated May 30, 1797- No - ... !
tfio. 50. Deferred Debt, in the name ot Will- l _
iarn Manning, ofOrmfby, in the county of Nor
folk, in EBgland, dated July 10, 1797- No.
10199. , . .
aojßt. 7*. Three per Cent. Stock, in rtie name
of Jannet Mathew, of Upper Seyrcour street,
London, Widow, dated October 31 >797- No.
For the renewal of the above Certificates, ap-
plication it intended to be made at the f.iid office of
j'nc Treasury of the United States,-—and all per
fgns concerned aredefired to tak notice.
Atso —IN THE SAME VESSEL,
Fifteen (hares Stockof the Bankof United States.in t
the name of William Manning,of Ormfby, coun
ty ol Norfolk, England, viz. Three Certificates
for five lhares each, dated January I, 1797- <
No. 1598 a, 15?8j, ~1 . .
For the rem wal of which,applieationu meant to
oe made to the said Bank of the United States,—
ind all persons concerned therein are desired to 1
take notice. rAUGHAN.
Philad»lrhia, may l. 6vf -
Salilbury Eltate.
THE Subscriber, propofingto contrafl his bufi .
nets, offers this filhie tor (sle, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and thre# Air Furnaces,
a complete Borring Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair ot stones ; alio a good Forge, all
in pcrfeft repair, ai#re all the Water Works conne&-
edwiththefe various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built lor the purpose of catting Cannon
for this State.— There are about two thousand acres
of Land, onehalt offwhich iiunder wood, the other
very -line arable Land, producing the best Hay'and
Pali v--. The Cannon lately mannijclisred there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, jvhich 19
(uperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in 'he world ; for not oue of fi*ty-Bin? irum
lately made, although some of the 24 were bored
intoj'- poundeis have failed on proving. The fix
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufacture, and a place ol arms lying in the (late
of Conne6licut, and o.ily 30 miles from leveral land,
ines on the Hudson's river, ani having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water iffume
l r om a large natural pond, very near the furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purpoles. Ihe purchaser can braccommodat
ed with all the Hock and utensils, and havs poffellion
on or betore the firll ot June next, and preparation
may be madein the meantime for goingmto Blall 1111.
nicdiaHy thereslter, for every pan will be delivered
in goon order, with some coal, Ore, Ac. Sec. For
terms, apply to Mr ]o(eph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; Davidßrooks, Elq.one of the ReprefeptaMves
in Congress for this Stave ; Mr,D«vid Waterman, on
the premises," or toLhe'prooiietorin New-York
tncp WILLIAM NEII.SON
T)r,.,.
FOR SALE,
Two three Itory Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. fituateon
Water llreet, between Mulberry an-J Safiafras
Streets, containing in front on Water i'.reet fif
ty-fotir feet, and containing that breadth eaft
wa> d ninety-five feet, then widening to the
loutb thirteen feet fix inches. These houles
have the convenience ot a public alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and area very defirablefit
uation foi a a merchant, flour faiflor, or others
who may have oecafion for storage cf goods,
'f ins property will be fo!d on very rtafonable
terms for ralh. For further information apply
U» the printer. April j mkwtf
landing,- I ™
At Walnut Street wharf, from the Brig
Sally, Jamet Yardfley, matter, from
Poit au Prince, i
88 Hogfhcsds ") p r innc Sugar. the D
40 Tierces J the p<
35 Hogfceads \ Coffee. lie £»!•
21 s Bags i adejpl
TO* SALE iY jj,
Thomas & John Kelland.
WHO HAVt ALiD ON HAND,
Ironmongery and Cutlery in packages
Gun> assorted in cases Th
Queen's ware in crates cuted
Claret in, hhds and cases , .
Port wibe of a superior quality in pip«, nnu'<- \farJ
and quarter casks Jun
New-York and Boston Beef, &c. B^vTi
j'lne 16 __2 0 j
Pennsylvania Hoipital, "
6 mo. lit rpj
THE CON fRIBUTORS arc hereby notified to
meet at the said Hospital, on 7th day , be-
ing the 23d day of this month, at 4 o'clock in the f nan
afternoon, to reconsider the expediency »f con- Ftlh .
ftruding a Dome to the certre house of the new the b
buildings; alio, to determine on an alteration to crcit ,
be made in the (th role, so far as the fame respects com ,
the admiflion of p»or patients. ing si
By Order of a Boar J of Managers. (hed
SAM' EL COATE3. Clrrt._ hold
TtnZT,
The House NO. 83, I extei
Chefnut, a few doors below Third flreet. ®
It is in go»d repair, and a capital Stand fsr any
kind of bufinofs. Apply as above. it ,,
june S• men
Bourdeaux Brandy,
Claret in hhds. j 1 ®*
White wine iu half hhds. P orl
Claret "> da *
Frontinac ( w;ne , ; n Jrc ,
Sautarne f nolc
Land' J or.e
Red Skins thr ,.
ALSO,
76,000 lbs. Jacquemel Coffee.
-(&,oa& Bourbon do. n
It 4 Boxes of white Havanna —
50 Hogmejds of Tobajco
FOR SALE *T „
JOHN SAVAGE.
J dtf Hai
june % " -
This Day is Publilhed, W£
I By THOMAS DOBSON, No. 41 South
Second-street, (price 61-4 cents.)
THE COMPLET2 I A
Soldier's Pocket Companion; A
f .OR,
A PL \IN AND EASY METHOD OF t
[ MILITARY DISCIPLINE.
CONTAINING, I J
The new system ot manual and platoon exer- J ,==:
ci/e, now prafliled in the army of Great-Britain j 1
together with filing, grounding, advancing, I
I handling, easing and reversing of arms, with I
I field mancevres, camp and ga nfon duty.
To ivhkh CIS added,
n ; Forms of morning reports, monthly returns, I
p. recruiting returns, mtifter rolls, returns of arms,l
t accoutrements, cloathing, &c. W th ' r °" °M -
f. country, age, size and fervitrtde. —ALSO, The I
1- field piece and great gun exercise, with some I Fr
d ' extraasand obfervationj from Baron Steuben s I
ts publication.
. | By John Camtbeli, a
! Late Adjutant in the Britijh Tsd Reg't of Foot. I
• ! june 16 I™
r e This Day is Puhli&ed,
m AND FQR SALE BV J.PENNO, I ig,CH EBN W T-* 11 R «ET J
d, AN address
To the People of Maryland, j
Z' ON tha origin, progress and pref.at state of I
' French aggression, with a ketch of the infamous I
1 attempts to degrade the Govern men t of the United j
s r States, and forne reflections on the (ate proceedings I
1 in Congress ; written the feft of April in the pre- I
j sent year, by a Member of the House of Reprefen
;[]. tatives. § ) u,e 11 I
or* Military Colours,
*° PAINTED ON SlLK—sr 1
me George Rutter Ssf Co.
ff 1 ' Portrait and Ornamental Painters, I
'°" TN aftile which will endure the hardlhips of the I n
A weather without injury, and which for neatnef, I
and exaAitude of colouring cannot be surpassed in I
this city.
- FLAGS and DRUMS
Furnished with dispatch, #n tha moll moderate I
s.in terms.
Portraits, Ornamental Paintings, Signs, I -
fire-buckets, &c. accomplilhed in that superb stile I
' of modern elegance, which, Mr. Rnrter pledges I t
himfelf from ao years eaperience iu this city will I
1 meet the entire approbation of his friends anil the I J
d'to P utUc ' 1
In the Military Line, I i
V. A variety of specimen's may be fcen at their 1 I
Vf Painting Room, Norris'sCourt, back of the Naw I j
Library. I ;
may 1 d6w
S. NOTICE.
aces, T TAVINO observed an adyertifemect of C. I
grift £j[ Gullagfr, in terms derogatory of our pro- I
r ' a " fcffional abilities, we have to request the public
ncft " not to be imposed upon by foreign artists ; but to I
lacc * decide upon the merits ol «ach "-.y a comparison ot
nnon the work executed by both, as it is a mode almost I
ac '" universally adopted by them to invalidate the ta- j
C \ lents ef efliMilhed artists, with a view of deceiv
here in 8 t ' ie pahfit, and engrofling that bufinefr which |
C h ,5 their profeffional knowledge in no wife eatitles
equal them to. Well knowing that public opir ion mutt
awns govern, we flatter ourselves that the workexecut
>ored cd by us willconvince them of our great fuperio-
At u- rity over Mr. Gullager in every branch of por
,th of trait and ornamental painting, andfhew thenecef
: Itaie fity of judging for themfe'.ves.
land« N. B. In future no attention will be paid to th:
dvan- felf.flattcrirg advertisements of Mr G.
U ' Any person wishing a supply of FLAGS and
nace, DRUMS will please apply to Geo. Rutter and
other Co. orris' C»urt, or Henry Frailet, Gcrmaa
lo^ at " town. §6w may 8.
ellion
di'm". Joseph Ricardo,
ivered 'his City, Merchant, has assigned his pro-
For U perty for the benefit of his Creditors,t» ]amts
lade)- C. Fimer, Samuel W. Fiflier, and 1 homas Wllfon
jiives persons who have demands are re-
OB quested to furnifh their accounts without delay—
and thofi indebted to niiltc immediate payment to
if theSubfcribers, afiing Aflignecj.
James C. & Samuel IV. Fibber.
No. 13V Arch Street.
eS march II 4tawtl
Tafra" Ephraini Clark,
CLOCK iff WATCHMAKER,
c '' " Corner of Front and Mar let Strict.
° ' TT7"HERE he is jurt opening a very cxtenfive
loules \'V supply of dock dials, cail brass, bells, for
djpin- g <( j work and pinions, pnn.icc Hone and emery,
blefit- iheet br fs, hai d and bench vices, witch and doc
others flyers, large and small files, (hoe and knee chape»,
»oods. c.hairts T ftalsrad keys, gold, Jilt and hlver watch
>nab!e £9, Iprmg -ud weight clacks,
apply juna >» tu&stf
United States. 1 r J
Pennsylvania DiftriS. J ,
Notice is hereby Given,
r r.f a Writ to vnc diire<sled, ijjpui
THAT in pursuance of * #r«t to m r
from the Hon. Rich*d *«terWMf for " Ad
the Di»ria Court of the Un ! ®' ' 'fed to pub- « A
the Pennsylvania Dittrj<a, will P phil- tJec
li£ sale ,t the Cuftom-Honfe, in theCny firfl
ade,phia, on Friday, the »oth day ° J
at 12 o'clock »t noon
4 Bags of Coffee, and Fo[
c Hampers of Porter. «**»
W'Mam Nichols, Mailhal. Any
an l
Marshal's Office, ? «tot (Ji;
wK'"'rrf-iri A 7
Any"
Tnames-ftrcet, ,n .hat a «Kche., wi«h all ce,
Fells-Point, containing . £. lin There ate Any
the Wuildin({s and imp'o»ci .1 s ever al large and Any
;3355££Sfo**H s
s r:snrH-Ssi *
■%
v
firable thofe Tndined To purchase Co valuable
r e (l»° It Uanneceffary.o fay more on th,. fab
- h An c y
jwpssaSMSKisH l
nmtl, with (ecurity .o the t.uttee b.r the P-V™"£
uit nnrciiafe money with micreft, vuthia I tl(
ss&sii"««" im -
"-""'■""ISW. MOALE. 1!
m»y »«• I
John Miller, Jun.
MB. 8, CHISNVT STREET, I
Has received, per the Richmond from Calcutta |
A Quantity of Sugar. ji
Weft India Mulcovado quality, which he offers for j
sale very 1®« for cafli or at 60 days. j j
HI HAS ALSO ON HAND, | ,
A variety of British Dry Goods, J i;
whiih he will dispose of on the moll reasonable 1 a
terms. I v
India Calicoes by the Bale, &c. i-c. t
june 5
b The Cargo of the Brig Minerva
"FROM BOUHDEAUX, |
J, I (OMSISTING Of I
\ Claret in hhrfs. and Cases . |
Oyl,Capers ( €4ivrs, Anchovies and Prunes jAn
, I TOR SALE *V
I Thomas Fitzfirrmns• j 1
of J may 26. "
ie * NOW LANDING,
Ie I From on board the ih> Four Friends, and for sale I
i's I . a v the Store- of | a
JESSE ROBERT WALN,
I A cargo of H.ivanna Molaires. j
j -ju 13 I
I rSiCajxoot tWohip Nathaniel Baiylsy, captain
I Cambdl, from Jamaica, will commence landing I
, T rO-MORRbtV, at South-ftieet Wharf. j
I Sugars of Prime Quality in Hhds. l AI
High proof Rum.
FOR SALB BY I
of I Peter Blight.
"" Who also offers for Sale,
A choice pared of ill and 4<h P roof Bran
-I£s I dy is Pipe,. | r
l e [ Port Wine in Pipes, Hhds. and Quarter cafcs ™
Madeira in Pipes 1
I Old Arrack. I
june i} §lf.odtl3jy I
I London Particular Madeira Wine. I m
I in
A few pipes of a superior quality, fit f<sr imme- I | l;
, I mediate use ; and CLARET in cases. I
th , C FOR SALE BY
JV I Michael Connor, * I
I No. to», corner of Second and Dock streets. I
I june 9. 1
ate I ADVERTISEMENT. I]
nS ' I "P\ESERTED from a detichm;nt under the
stile I I ) command of captain Edwfd MUler, 11a- I
! S es J tioned at Spring Gardens.
W1 " j y une 3J, 1798—John M'Kiflbck, |born in
I Ireland, county of Antrim ; 5 feet 9 inches in a
I height, dark hair, eyes and complexion, pock t
I marked, aged 18 years, speaks broad, inlifted t
heir Iby ensign Root, at New Biunlwick, had on his '
<aw I full regimentals, Hole a blanket when he went
I away, he is a drunkard and very afluming.
w_ I June 6th —James Crawford, born in Chefler, j c
I State of Maflachufetts, brown hair, grey eyes, j 1
I fair ci mplexion, five feet 11 inches in hsight, I
I aged 24 years, by trade a blacksmith, had on j
1!r" I s u " regimentals and left his post when on j 1
to fcutry. Ufo, , '
Jn ot I EliakimStow, a prisoner, born in Symlbury, 1 '
most I State of Conneilicut, aged 36 years, black hair J
: ta- I dark eyes and complexion, a repeated deserter,
ceiv- I *ery afiunsing, writes a tolerable hand and is ve
,hich jry talkative. Had on regimental shirt and over
titles alls when he deferred the guard,
mull Whoever will apprehend the above deserters
ecut- arjd return them to Spring-Gardens inPhiladel
erio- phia, or to any officer belonging to the United
por- Statev or confine them in any goal and give no
lecef- tice so that they may be obtained (hall have ten
dollars reward for either of them, or thirty for
0 thj the three an nil reasonable charges paid.
EDWARD MILLER, captain
id regiment of Infantry.
; an * # * The different printers u the union are
,g requested to insert the abof*.
—' june 11 '
NOTICE,
pro
dlCon' Owners or Consignees of vtfE-ls per-
JL forming quarantine are to take notiee thar
e re " a cart arrives from the Hospital at the Hetlth
:lay— Office at 7 o'clock and leaves it by 9 every mor
ent to ning (Sundays excepted) such supplies as are to
be forwarded to vefTels are desired to be sent to
er ' the Health Office before the hour of nine.
wrf J™? ! ; L. I
Now Opening,
AiWilliamM'Laws Saddle Manufaftory,
E R> No. 72, Chef nut Street,
en five general aflortment of Horfenaan's
s, for- fiftols, dire.it from th» Manufacturers in Loadoa.
:mery, ALSO ON HAND,
1 doc Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Cavers, Light
:hape», Horseman's Caps, Swords, .artouch Boxes, Va
watch- J lices, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hatd Leather
I trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, See.
kstf I april 9 dtf
-i I'FaSURY DEPARTMENT,
IuLAoUJxi MARCH 1, 1798.
, , ptirHC NOTICE 18 HEREBY GIVEN,
PUBLIt the Q xt h day ot July one thojifand seven hundred and
iNpilrfuanceofthe juties on Stamped Vel'.um, Parchment and Paper", and the
mr.ety-fcven, evt.tled An A& one thousand s e ven hundred a ? d ninety-feve ß , entitled
Act pafltd on the fifteenth day o; comratucement c f the duties imposed by th« ft enti
"An Ait to postpone for a • „ oa j Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from alter the
tfcd « An barcafter enumerated, will be levied and collec
ud United St.us. 1. , ,
Vr.of Vellum ot Parchment, or (beet or piece of Paper, upon wh.eb lhall be
«Aer of the inOrumenu« writing,
Any Certificate of Nat u ralizaU?n, _ - )enro ) ra ent »r registry of
srrfS" "E™ .dj,,®,.,i«.« .«< c«... .< «.»-
r S '«'ZSS ko » u r •' ,ht U ° iKd s ""*
Any Receipt or riiknarg of a per f ona i c ft ate j,
ther teftamenwry ," ft r»f' 'J. J™ e othe P r than to t he Wife, ChiU
vided by force otany fta u e dcceafed.the amount whereof (ball be
4" not ,ke v "° c - f Hu " «
dred Dollars, - „ j the vi i ue of One Hundred Dollars and
1 When the amount thereof mall exceea tne , 0
lhall not exceed five hun re , " H Dollars, the additional sum of 1
And for every further sum ot FHundi " on a vcflol or
Any Policy oflafcanother in the United States, z S
furmih for the use ol • forej Qr inland b ;u 0 f exchange, promissory
Any Hond.hiU single Pj' g rccognizanC e, bill, bond, or other obliga
sr i " s ". u '" """"
I fabove twenty dollars'and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - to
ll)(we one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, i S
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, .jo
1 A "s' f *^, V^rAfanv f bond d s 0 or a notes shall be payable at or within sixty days, -
"SdfKS fifth part, of the duty
llf and not exceeding one hundred dollars, 1 4
I If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dol hi s, l 0
If above five hundred dollars and not exceedmg one thousand dollars, ao
a*KSSCTiJISS.mm,. .b'«~y i«"f« Mr
1 lifhed within the'Umted States, other than the no»os of luch of the laid Bank,
as fhalTairee t> an anmual compotition, fat one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders relpedl.vely, according to
I not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, " "
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars JO
I On all nates above one hundred dollar, and not exceeding five hundred
On all notes above five hundred dollars, - *
J3 teSffS&StSSSlfc* "« w '" * s
ranu for Land granted by the United States a, bounty for military Services
J Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Custom, or duties, for left than
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, *
e | For more than two thousand dollars, - ' 3
A-v note or bill of lading forg >ods or merchandize to be exported,
J If from one AiltriiS. to another diftriJl of the United Statw, not being in the
>. I fame State, * . * , "
If from the United States to any foreign port or p ace, - - 25
A „ y Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effefls, made m-any
" required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels d.strained for
5 rent or taxes, ami goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) J0
Any Certificate of , share in any Ins.ranee Company, ef a share m the Bank of
the United Statts, or of any State or other Bank, "
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If above one hundred dollars, - "tjjj n... I
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten tents for one hundred dollars. |
B * I TV,,, rintips-iforefaid will be tolleaed and received by the Superiors, Infpeaors aud other Officer*
Ifi r ii;„„ the several DiftriAs, Survey® and Divisions «f the United States, and by such other
peffonsls (hall from to time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diftri<fts for
j that purpose.
1 The Suoervifsrs of the several Diftria, will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and a, soon «»
e. may be praflicable, mark or itamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcelsof Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of thefaid duties ; Or
ie (lamped vellum, parchment and paper tuay at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rates prescribed by law, by application to any Supervilor, liifpeflor, Officer ot Infpeaioa,
or other parson appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors ot Diftr.ds
or otaer pat ion v GIVEN under my Baud, at Philadelphia
\ I the day and year ikovetttettioned.
s. OLIVER WOLCQTT,
Mar"eh 10. Secretary of the Treasury.
TREASURt DtPAR iMENT ;
March 30th. 1
Public Notice it hereby given,
THAT byanadlof Congrcfs pa£fcd 011 the
19th day of March, 1798, the following
aderations and amendments have been made to
the ait passed on the 6th day of July J 791> ea ~
titled " Ar. aft laying duties on ftaraped vcl
" lum, parchment and paper."
The stamp duties on debentures- or certifi
cates for the drawback of Customs or duties on
Imports are repealed.
A discount at the rate of seven arid one half
per Centum, will be allowed by the isupervifors
or InfpeAors relpeflively, to any persons other
than Officers of the Revenue, who may pur
chase atone time or procure to be stamped, any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment or Piper, upon
which ' the duties (hall amount to Ten Dol
lars or upwards.
111 .
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold at
the rate 9 prescribed by law. without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for stamped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional price will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each flcin of Parch
ment, or Two Hundred Cents for eash flcin of
Vellum of medium size, which may be furnifh
ed at the expense of the United States and pro
portionally for any lefier quantity-
Given under my hand, at Philadelphia, the
day and yeir abovementioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
• Secretary of the Treasury.
To be Let,
(And poffeflion given on the 1 ft of May)
A genteel : three story brick House,
li feet front, and 40 feet deep, with hack huildUigs
1 and (tables, at present in the tenure of Major JaCK
-1 son. Enquire at 187 South Third (Ireet.
aprilo. §
The Co-partnership of the Subscribers,
TRADING UNDER THE FIRM OF
Joseph Davidson &f Co.
IS this day diffoived by mutual consent, all those
having ciairns againA said firm, are desired to
B render their accounts, and those indebted to make
• payment to Joseph Davidfon, who is duly autho
riled tof«ttle tfce affairs of 'lieconcern,
t JOSEPH J.MILLER.
JOSEPH DAVIDSON,
r N. B. ThejStqres at the corner mi Market and
Fourth Streets are now to bs let.—-Enquire of Jo
epn Davidlon. April vr&sjrn
lO bULrlj,
4°,939 acres of Land.
IN Greene county, Commonwealth of Pennsyl
vania, on the waters of Fish and Wheeling
Creeltsand Ten Mile Rsn.
fhtfe Lands arc fertile and well timbered, and
abound ia Coat; they were fold ten years ago for
five (hillings per acre ; patented early in 17 37, ex
cept 370 acre,, which were patented in 179* ;
part of them were surveyed in 178.;. The traA
is between the Ohio and Monengahela. very eon
venient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town ot Washington, from 14 to 16 frem the
village of Greenefburgh and Wheeling.
On payment of one fourth of the purchase mo
ney, a reasonable credit will be given forthe resi
due. Enquire of the Printer,
aprfl 21. $
" TO BE SOLD,
26,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of New York, between the northern
bounds of Pennsylvania and the Sufquehanua
now, or late in the townships of Hamden and
Warren and county of Warren.
Thcfe Lands, hom their quality and situation»
are a very desirable objea forany man who mean®,
to invest his money to advantage.
Oa payment of one third of the purchase mo
ney, a reasonable credit will! e given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april 21. 5
Bafkenridge—-for sale
IT consists of 920 acres, almost all of which i*
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the late
Enrl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which are bounded on tk«
East by the river Pafaiek. .
There are on ita number of buildings, forming
afquare of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
is a vary convenient one would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard comills of 1500 finsbearing engra.-
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other ptrts of said
trad near 300 other App' e Trees—as also a great
variety of other fruks, particularly Cherries of the
befl and most delicious kinds. _ ,
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
Forest Tret's that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Us situation is abeut iS mile,
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and 12 from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
incafh, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
n N«. 78, Cheicut -tree;.
Fcbriiiary 2.