rf# A States, Philadelphia Daily Advertiseh
ftvMBER 'l 87 9. J
<sWtte.
PHILADELPHIA,
TUESDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER »c.
for the Gazette of the united states. q1
RULES, S
ifdß PREVENtmS CONTAGIOUS DISEASES, R
FROM SPREADING OR BECOMING
EPIDEMIC. a
THERE is no evil in the world in which j
the great rule of " refitting the beginning, r j
is more applicable than in the present cafe.
And, as the means heretofore employed, v
have not been fuccefsful in preventing the h
yellow fever from spreading o r becoming
epidemic, after having gained admittance in- v
to the city, I beg leave to propose the sol- £
low lug, which I believe will, if adopted and #
ftridtly obferv.d, be found effeftual for that c
purpof •. And, as tliev are derived from | \
the experience of past age*, I hope they 1
will not be rejefted by those whose duty it f
is to provide fur the public welfare, unlcfs c
they can fubllitute rules of more efficacy. j a
«• Salus pooali fuprema lex eft," is a fun- j
damental maxim, which neither time, cii- j
cumftance-, nor .compass, ean invalidate, (
icortfiftcntly with the principles of t
The plea therefore that private mtereft and (
the will of the individual it bound to fubm.t ,
to the intertft and will of the .Society of ,
which he is a member, (which being exprdf- ,
ed by t'h- majority of the legal reprefenta- ,
lives of that foci ty, becomes a law) is luf- j
ficient to juftify. the peaceable removal ot ,
tVerv individual or f.vmily, in wh'ch a con- ,
tagious dlfeafe of a malignant kind makes ,
Its firH: appearance, to such from <
tlie city as will prevent all danger of its be- 1
ing communicated to 'he reft of the inhabi- 1
tants of the city. And as the yellow fever
has heretofore always made its firft appear
ance in some of the lodging houses 01 ta
verns near the water, frequented by fearoen,
or among persons who have tranfaftcd bufi.
refs with vessels recently arrived from the
W- ft-Indies, it should be made the interest
of every person or family in which it ap
pears, to make instant discovery of it to the
guardiars of the Health laws, by granting
a suitable reward to the informer, and de
tering from concealment by the severest pe
nalties.
To prevent all concealment, collusion or
deception, let a small fallary be allowed t»
tTrrev r ??.{frei! i g r l o¥ s a Ts^^ r or b ?k n ?. i .7 t °
liberties, and par icularly to the grave dig
gers of the ft rangers' burying grounds,
whose business it should be to procure the
the name, and account of the nature of the
disease of every person that he is employed
to burv, aud to report the fame to the guar
dians of the Health laws previouflv to inter
ment ; who, upon any caute of ftifpieion,
{hould immediately fend two experienced
Physicians to make the necessary examina
tion and enquiry.
Let a fufficient number of buildings with
fcparate apartments after the manner of the
wards of an hospital, with suitable accom
modatittn, be provided for the reception of
the sick, at a proper diftanpe from the city,
in a high and airy fit nation, and also for the
whole family in which the disease makes its
appearance, where they may be attended
and nursed by their relations and friends,
without anv danger of being affi&ed by the
contagion ; for it is a known fa&, however
lingular and extraordinary it may appear,
that the yellow fever is very seldom contagi
ous in the air of the country, in this climate
especially in healthy situations.
This circumstance alone one would think,
would be fufficicn- not only to reconcile each
individual of us to tViis measure, but to make
it cur earnest rcqucft to be remove' to a si
tuation so full of f*fety and consolation,
when compared with that of the city, where
if the difenfe is fuffertd to extend its malig
nant ravages among the inhabitants, the
wretched vi£Ums of disease are left to fink
under a load of complicated miseries, with
out th<- presence of a sympathising friend,
to console them in their la ft mome nts, for
alas ! humanity itfelf ceafe3 when compani
on to another would be fatal to ourselves.
Even escape itfelf is destitute of pleasure,
when wc refle& that we leave those whom
we lovr or esteem behind, to the care of
mercenary nurses, to ptrifh by the most de
ftrcftive of maladies.
If the disease should make its firft ap
pearance in any of the more opulent fami
lies, the fame measures should be obftrved,
with refpeft to them, as with those in the
most neccflitous cireumflances, with only
this exception, that they should be allowed
to remove to their own feats in the country
upon giving fecuri;y not to return to the ci
ty after their recovery, till after the fitting
in of hard froft, which is now known to be
a perfedt antidote to the eontagion of the
yellow fever, provided the articles which
itftially harbour it, be exposed for forr.e
time to its influence.
It will be the fafeft method therefore, to
stint up every infefted hr>nfe, after the re
moval of the family, till the arrival of froft
and then after removing ewry article of
cloathing and furniture, "*to have all the
windows open for thirty or forty days, af
ter which it may he occupied with fafety.
(Hke remainder in our next.)
£V Ttie Hralrh Olnec 4s kept open night and
day, at the City H,ill, where every necessary
convenience is procured for removing the sick
and burying the tlead
WILLIAM ALLEN.
By John W. Fen no, N° ; 119 Chef nut Street.
PHILADELPHIA: TUESDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 25, 1798.
BURLINGTON A D DRESS
TO THE PRESIDENT.
To the Premdent of the United States.
SIR,
We, the underfigied officerc jtnd soldiers
of the Cavalr ', Artillery and Infantry, and
other inhabitants of Burlint;toii and its vi
cinity, in the county of Chittenden, and
State of Vermont, though aa inconliderable
number when compared with the colleftive
body of the citizens of the United States,
and even with those who have hcre'ofore ad- j.
dressed you, upon the present eventful pe
riod, yet being assembled to cefcbrate the q
ever memorable Fourth of July, conceive that
we cannot devote our hnurs to a more no- j
hie and patriotic purpose than expressing to
you our zeal in support of the rights to
which this day give bifth« We will not j
confumc time in the repetition of inve&ives
against that government which w.e have, till
of late, admired for their republicanism ;
i we fay nothing of their unprovoked ag^ref
fions on otir lawful commerce, of their un-
i founded complaints, of their infalts upon
: our meflengers of peace and amity : but, be .
j assured, Sir, that we (hall ever hold ourf-Ives
in readiness to support your admiaYftration
in repelling any attempts to wrest from ns
our ihdepeadetice and national rights. We
therefore, in the spirit of' 76, which we this
day recognize, in the most unequivocal man
ner, without the leaft'refervation whatever,
tender to you ourselves/ and whenever re
quired will rally round the Itandard of our £
liberties, and risk every thing we hold dear
in fociety.'for the defence of our Conititu
tion, and the government of our own choice ;
the wisdom of which haa filled the world
with admiration j marked us with the envy
of foreign nations, and its just impartial ad
miniftratio*. caused {in many p.irf#bf Ame- J
rica) the wilderness to (1 flam as the rose.
We take this opportunity to declare to
you, S r, our entire confidence in the execu
tive. and all other constituted anthorities of . J
the government, and believe tlat your ad- j
ministration, as well as that of your worthy
predecessor, has at all times been conduced
in a manner the bed calculated to naintain
our national dignity and promote the inter
est of our citizens at large, on principles of
ft rift neutrality. We alto believe that thofc
who have endeavored t® lessen the confidence
which ought to be placed in the mitiiftera of
a government (which we are convinced has
been the cafe in America) and at this a
larm'ngcrifis continued to do it, are decided
enemies to the government itfelf and would
><«ppy to fee it trembling on the brink of
e^anefcence.
We fleprecatc mc norrom of war, and
most earnestly pray for the continuance of
peace with all nations but if w« cannot have
peace without facrificing our national digni
ty, without having a French Directory to
di&ate our government and regulate our
commerce, let us have war, we'll cheerfully
meet it with all its concomitant evils, rather
than admit for « moment such degraded
princip'es ; snd should those who make it
their boa ft of having delivered us from tbe
: power of tyranny, now undertake to rule
• over us, they (hall (till find us determined to
r be free ; and we hope and trull they will not
1 find in America, many who would submit to
■ the fate of Venice. Let our citizens all feel
s the spirit of real Americans, let us have wif
l dom and Srmnefs in our councils, and a
, Washington to lead our armies, we may de
: fy the United efforts of the world to destroy
our government.
1 We are, with confidence.
Esteem and relpeft, Sir,
; Your obedient Servants,
MARTIN CHITTENDEN, Brig Gen.
> At the request and by a umni
' mous vote of our Companies, we
: fubferibe in their behalf and for
' ourselves,
' TH AD DEUS TUTTLE, Capt Cavalry.
: LYM AN KING, Capt of Infantry.
" ELNATH AN KEYES Capt. Artillery.
; By the unanimous voice of the
1 private citizens present, we sub
' scribe for them, and have the
' honor to join the Military Gen
r tlrmen in transmitting the fame
" to you.
EBENEZER ALLEN,
STEPHEN PEARL,
J STEPHEN KEYES.
THE PRESIDENT'S ANSWER.
To the Officers and Soldiers of the Cavalry,
- Artillery and 7 'ry, and other Inhabi
tants of Burling<„ ' its vicinity, in the
d county a/ Chittenden '• of Vermont.
c Gentlemen,
y My journey to this place clayed till
d this time, an anfwe* to you. iging ad-
Y dress of the fourth of July. \our zeal in
support of those rights to which that me-
S morable day gave birth, is as natural as your
,e resolution to ho'd yourselves in readiness to
c support and defend them is commendable,
h- The conftitutiop and government of your
e own choice has indeed caused the wilderness
in many parts of America, to blossom as
0 the rose. Your confidence in the executive,
r " and all other constituted authorities of the
ft government, and your testimony in favor of
>f my administration, as well that of my great
' e predecessor, as far as it relates to me does
1 * me honor, and as fir as it relates to him
does honor to yourselves. Your opinion of
_ the oppofltion may seem severe, but as it
"l refpefts manv of the most fciveKrate, though
'y perhaps the most pUufible; I cannot hesitate
k to believe it just. A French Dire&ory to
diftatc to you who (hall be your rulers! and
who (hall be your ambaffadars ! A worth
less tyrant of a king oace said, " let me
have the appointment at my pleasure of jud- J
ges and bimops and I will have what law
and gospel I please." Let a French Direc
tory have the choice of your Prefrdeiits,
Governors and Ambaffadars, and you may
as well give them legislative authority over
you in all cases whatsoever. Rather than
this, I fay with you, let us have war, we ,
will cheerfully meet it; rather than admit
for a moment of such degraded principles.
Those who make their boasts of having de
livered us from the power of tyranny may t
now with equal modesty, undertake to rule f
over us.—America delivered France from ,
the power of tyranny, at least, as truly as *
France did America. Let the history of
both countries from 1763 to 1774 deter- j
mine.—The rising generation in America j
has not fufficiently attended to Ihis fubjeft.
It has been carefully concealed from their
studies and contemplation.
France I hope will find us still determined
to be free ; our citizens in fufficient num
bers will feel the spirit of real Americons.
I hope you will have wisdom and firmnefs
in your councils and a Washington to lead
your armies.
JOHN ADAMS.
guineey, Aug. 16,
At a meeting of a number of the citizens of
Philadelphia and its environs. It was rtfol
ved to ajfociatcfor the.protedion of peace and
good trdtr therein; by their being ready with
arms and amunition to repair at ths Jirjl notice
to their retpeSlve alarm poflj, that they might
ad tvith the greater promptitude and efficiency,
and that civil magistrates ando her good citizens
may know where to find a body of men prepared
enforce a due obedience t* the laws and pre
fer-oe order and tranquility. 8
The citizens are informed that in cases of
fire, or riot in the City any when the old Pot
| ters Field is chosen as the alarm pofi or rallying
I point, from its centralfituatim and contiguity to
I both jails an t Moris's building the present place
of confinement of vagrants. In the Northern
Liberties the City Hall or town house; and in
Soulhwark Litle's school house to which all the
members of the ajfociation are to repair equipped,
and there await the orders or presence of their
officers, a Majijlratt, or other civil officer.
The following gentlemen were chosen as offi
cers :
Jomh D. Ds Lact,~i
Edward Pots, >ln the City.
Joseph JVriqbt, j
Mr. Mansfimld, in North. Libertiei.
Gorge Young, Seuthwarh-
Thf alar ato be riven at Potter's field
»yfiring afield piece.
Any gentlemen wifhir.g to join the association
during the exijletue of the present calamity will
please to give their names to either of the above
gentle/hen, to Adam Cafey William AUifon,
Mr. Thomas Marley, Tavern-keeper, sign of
the Circus in South Fifth Street, Mr. Alexan
der Clay, and Mr.JViliiam Buck.
N. B. As many citizens have mifuuder
ftood the intention of the affcciation they are
hereby iuformrd that they are not to patrole
unless on emergent occasions, and then only
when called upon by a magistrate or other
civil officer, there being already established
in both the Northern and Southern liberties
j and a night and day patrole eliabliflied in
the city, together with the ordinary watch
men who are fully competent to meet the
1 ordinary occurrences. The intention of the
association beingmerely to have abody ofmen
ready to turn out armed and equipped on a-,
ny sudden emergency, or to mount guard at
any of the prisons or elsewhere, if the ma
gistrates should deem it necessary, but not
otherwise nor on no other occafioa.
Philadelphia, Sept. 20, 1798.
* % * All the printers in the City are re
queued to insert the above.
The Gentlemen associated for the protec
' tion of the City and Liberties are informed
that until a field piece can be procured, the
• figtial for repairing to old Potter,s field (the
alarra post for the city) begivenby ring
ing the Sate-houfe bell, and until the Gov
ernor shall furnifh arms those, gentlemen that
have got any in their poffeflion are earnestly
requ#fted to bring them with them.
Signed by order oftheCorumittee.
JOHN D. De LACY.
Philadelpeia Sep. 21ft, 1798
Remote Subfcriberj for this Ga
zette are requested to forward pr. post,
' the arrearages due from them refpeftive
e lyw Postmasters who may have recciv
. cd fubferiptions are earnestly desired to
remit the fame. At this interesting and
distressing crisis, attention to this notice
, will peculiarly oblige the Editor.
0- The Subscribers to this Gazette
r residing in, and near Germantown,
3 are respectfully informed, that their
r papers will be forwarded (daily Jto
s Mr. Scunuel Richardet, in German
s town ; where a list of their names
' e will be left.
if Bank of the United States.
it Philadelphia, September it, 1798.
:s The public is hereby informed, that
n an Office of Dcpofit and Discount will be opened
if on Monday next, at the houfc lately occupied by
t Samukl Richardet, near the Market Houfc 111
, Germantowa—where the hufmefs of this Intlitu
tion will be tranfafled during the continuance of
e the malignant fever now prevailimrinPhiladelphia.
O HENRY KUHL, Aji/lant Cajhier.
d scptembur hi d
%ijc _
PHILADELPHIA,
TUESDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER aj.
Doftore Currie and DewCes are appoint
ed to attend the sick at the Encampment on
Matter's fields.
The Baltimore TeJegraphe of Saturday
morning, arhounces the arrival there, of
the frigate United States. Thi3 mull be a
mistake. The prizes to the Frigaie are the
Jellns and the Sans Pareil,
The editors of the Savannah Advertiser,
have made a public declaration, " that in
future, no piece shall find a place i."\ their
paper which has a tendency to villify the go
vernment of the United States.''
NOTIFICATION,
The Citizens of Philadelphia, who art
attached to the conftitntion and government
of the United Stares, are earnestly request
ed to meet at the Sctiool-houfe iv German
town, on TUurfday nest, the 27th of Sep
tember, at eleven o'clock A'. M. for the
purpose of fupplving the two vacaueits uc
cafioned by the death of Jacob Milixheimtr,
and the resignation of /,indrew Bayard•
As other important business, will be of
fered for consideration, a general attendance
is expefted.
BY THIS DAY'S MAIL.
NEWPORT, Sept. Is.
OF THE FEVER.
The Town Couucil of the town of
. Newport feel themfelvea exceeding happy,
through Divine Providence to announce
to the inhabitants and the public in general,
that notwithstanding the many falfe and
scandalous reports to the contrary, which
have and are nyw circulating, that no per
son or perfans in the town or vicinity there
of are in any way or means infliftcd with
the cotaglous disorder now prevailing in our
neighboring States.
By Order of Council,
JONATHAN ALMY, Town Clerk.
Newport, Sept. 15,'98.
One Hundred and Twenty Dollars
Reward.
DESERTED from till? Detaehment Rationed
at the Camp near Schuylkill.
September 6 —DAyiD H. ENOS, j feet 8
1-1 inches high, 38 years old, grey eyes, fair
h»; r nod complexion, born in Simlbury, state of
Conne&icut, by trade a farmer, enlisted at Win
. for by Ensign Parmele.
September 7 —PARKER HOSMQR, j fe.t
8 inches, 26 yean, grey eyes, fair hair and com
plexion, born in Ch<rleflon, State of Vermont,
by trade a joiner, enlisted by do.
SIMON HAWLEY— 5 feet 9 r-2 inches,
it years, dirk eyes, hair and complexion, born
in Amherft, itate of Maflachufetts, no trade, en-,
lifted by ,d». ,
HIRAM NICHOLS —5 feet 5 3-4 inches,
aa years, grey eyes, I'andy hair and complexion,
burp in VVatterbuiy, state Connecticut, a repea
■ ted deserter, no trade, enlisted by Captain Mil
ler.
, September 15 —SAMUEL BARNS, 5 feet
7 1-2 inches, 24 years, black eyes, dark hair,
and complexion, born in Liverpool, England,
by trade, 4 bookbinder, enlilted by Ensign Stall,
• in Philadrlpjy^.
SEPTEMUS UNDERWOOD— 5 feet 9
1 1-2 inches, 30 years old, eyes, fair hair,
ruddy complexion, born in the state Connecti
cut, no trade, enlisted at Middlctown, by Capt.
Miller.
ABEL ABBEY—-j feet 9 3-4 inches, 33
• years old, black eyes, dark hair and complexion,
born in the state Vermont, no trade, a repeated
deserter, enlisted in Middlctown by Captain
. Miller,
September 18—JOHN LOVE, 5 feet 5 1-2
inches, a 8 years old, dark eyes ar.d hair, fair
complexion, born in Ireland, county Tyrone,
by a ftone-mafou, enlisted in Philadelphia
' by Bnfigtf Stpll.
: Septembei 19—WILSON SPALDINO, 5
; feet 10 1-2 inckes, 27 years old, dark hair, black
_ eyes, brown complexion! born io the ftaie ot
New-J,erfity, no trade, enlisted by Ensign Boot,
at \
JOHN QUALLS—feet j inches, *$ years
' eld, grey eves.sandy hair fair, Completion, born
ia England, by trade a paper maker, enlisted in
New Brunfwiclc.
September ao—HENRY MILLER, j feet
9 inches, 37 years old, black eyes, dark hair
_ and completion, born in Germany, no trade,
plays the fiddle, enlisted by Ensign Parmele.
DA VID FOWZER— 5 feet 8 3.4 inches,
> 26 years ojd, grey eyes, dark hair, fair com
. plexion, born in Bucks copnty, slate of Penn
fylvar.ia, by trade a tanner, enlisted in Phila
delphia, by Captain Miller.
) Whoever apprehends said deserters (hall re
j ceive the above reward, or ten dollars for etch,
with all reasonable expenses, by applying to me
■ at the camp.
EDWARD MILLER, Captain
2d Reg Infantry commanding.
? Seotemher 21th, r-":8. d.6.t.
, Wanted to furchaje.
r \ PPROVED bills on Amfterdarn, for which
2 -LX. ca(h will be fji/en at the rate of thirty fe
ren cents per Guilder, Apply to the Calhier of
" the Bank of the United States,
y September aid, 1798.
Wanted—A Boy to attend an
Office, situated in a healthy part of the city.
Enquire at No. 21, North Seventh Ilreet.
September 3
t Just Received and for sale by
• WIL L I A M TO U N G,
T Corner of Secynd anti Chefnut Street—and at the
1 Office of the Editor,price 3<i6?h» of a<Jollar,
} AN ORATION,
1. Spoken at HartforA, on the Anniversary of lade
per.dence, July 4, 1798.
THEODORE DWIGHT.
[Volume XIV.
CtTY HOSPITAL REPORT;
FOR SEPTEMBER 2s.
Admitted—TWENTY.FIVE.
Died—EIGHT.
Discharged TWELVE., .
Eloped—ONE.
laterred from city and suburbs i »
City Hospital 8
' . • 41
Remaining in the Hospital 149, 0 f whom
27 are on the recovery.
PHILIP S. PHYSICK.
Christopher Darrah, Steward.
By order of the Board of Managers.
WILLIAM JONES, PreKdent.
Attest—Timothy Paxson, Clerk.
EIGHTY-FOUR rew cases of the
prevailing fever, reported by 14 Phyficiani,,
for the iaft 24 hours.
Number of deaths in Wilmington, from
August 7 to September 23 inclulive, Adults
119 —Children 8.
Pubiic Notice is hereby Given,
T" 1 HA'l Proposals undsr (ValtUiovers, will be
A received on ihf l>chall of th- United States
until the twentieth day of O&ober next, by Jo
nathan JcxklnTi, E'q. 4t Boston, Malfachufetts,
Tench francis, fcfq Pennsylva
nia, and John Svvann, Esq. at Balt'more, Ma
ryland, (or supplying the following articles of
cloathing, for the army of the United States,
viz.
FOR INFANTRY.
8,448 I-lals,
,304 Serjeant Coats
504 ditto veils
1,008 pairs do. woollen overalls
I,s>oß dittoxlo. linen ditto
ditto flirts
264 Musicians coats
7,680 Privates coatts
7,944 ditto veils
15,888 ditto woollen overalls
15,888 ditto linen ditto w
3 r ,776 ditto flhrts
33,792 pairs oi Socks •
33,721 pairs of ihoes ,
8,448 (locks of black leather
8,448 llork c asps
8,448 blanket
FOR CAVALRY.
6 Musicians coats
*6 Serjeant coats
26 ditto vests
104 ditto Ihirts
348 Privates coats
354 diito vests
1416 ditto (hirts
760 pair of Leather-breeches
760 pair of (lockings
760 pair of boots
380 Stocks of black leather
380 Stock ctafps
380 Blankets,
ill. Every article (hall be made of materials,
equally good, and in form, or falhion, conform
ably to patterns for the fame, (ealcd with the
leal of the War-Office, and; which will be de
posited with the several gentlemen, empowered
to receive the ptopofils, as above mentioned.
ad. Sworn Infpcilois (haU be appointed on
the part of the United States, to examine and
determiee upon the several articles aYorefaid,
when the faaie (ball be ready for delivery, with
full power to rejefl every article, which shall not
equal, in goodness of materials, or to be made
conformably te, the falhion of t'.e standard pat
tern for the fame ; and no allowance- (hall be
made, for any article Which (hall be rejcfled by
thorn, for tlic causes aforefaid.
3d. The proposals muftfpecifythe number of
articles, and their kinds, which the party is
willing to furjulk, together with, the lowed
prices for immediate payment in money, and d
fo the prices, on the lougefl term, or terms of
• credit.
One third of each, and every of the several
kinds of the above articles, to be delivered en
the fifteenth day of December, one thied oit
the fifteenth day of January, and the remaining
third on the firlt day of March next; and the
public will not be coafidered as bound to receive
any of the aforefaid articles of cloathing, which
shall not be ready for infpeflian, and delivery,
at the periods agreed upon.
4th. The cloathing aforefaid will be received
in the several dates, at the places, and in the
proportions following, viz. One third part of
the wh"le at Springfield, Maflachufetts, one
i'ther third at Philadelphia, (tare ef Pennsylva
nia, or at Lamherton, (late of New-Jersey, and
one third at Baltimore, Maryland.
sth. No contrail will be made, for a le(»
number of each of the aforefaid articles of
cloathing, than is requisite for a company, vig,
FOR THE CAVALRY.
4 Serjeant Coats
4 ditto veils
16 ditto (hirts
1 Musician Coat
58 Private coats
59 ditto vtlts
336 ditto ihirts
63 ftoeks
63 flock clasps
126 pair of leather breeches
126 pair of (lockings
126 pair of boots
61 blankets
FOR THE INFANTRY.
70 Hats
4 Serjeant coats
t 4 ditto veils
8 ditto woollen overalls
8 ditto linen ditto
16 ditto (hirts
a Mufici\ns coats
64 Private coats
1 66 ditto veils
131 ditto woolen overalls
131 ditto linen ditto.
2*4 ditto Shirts
280 p»ir of Socks
280 pair of Shoes,
70 Stocks,
70 Stock Cfaftv,
70 Blankets.
JAMES M'HENRY,
Secretary of \Vte.
War Department, ?
5».4 Sept. a;??. JV.4fc.- +* .''r
POST-OFFICE;
Philadilpl.'ia, SepUm'er i 7 9^'
LETTERS for t e British Packet for;
Faimi.iith will be received at this Office un
fit Tuef(]„y, 2<j Odluber, at 12 o'clock,
noon.
N. P>. The inland pdftagc to New-York
mull be paid;
*£* WE art' informed that Boxes for
the daily conveyance of letters from Phila
delphia. addit're.d for the Banks of' Penn
fylvaii.ia or North America, are lodged at
tir« P<>ft.O'.<Si c in the City, for tbe accom
moda ion ofthyfr who choose to avail them
ftlves of that mode of conveyanc».
At a Meeting of a Number of
the Inhafei;ants of I hester County, held
at the Centre House in Weft Bradford
Townlhip, for the purpose of nominating
a suitable Person f.r Representative in
Congress, and also a suitable Pcrfon for
S'ate Senator,
The following Persons wt re recommend
ed to their fellow-citizens for the following
offices.
RICHAKD THOMAS, Efquin
Reprclemtative in Congress for the Dif
irid\ enmpofed of the counties of Chester
and Delaware.
DENNIS WHELEN, Ef«y,rt
State Senator, for the Diflrift composed
of the cou ties of Chelter, Montgomery,
and" Bucks.
liefolved, that the Proceedings of tkis
Meeting be publilhed in the public news- \
pajfers. .
Signed by Order of the Meeting,
IS iAC WAYNE, Chairman.
Josfph Hemphill, Secr'y.
September jth.
C 3" THE Committee are happy in. hav
ing it in their power to inform those citi
zens who axe not in a situation to provide
for tlierafelves and are d-.firous to remove
from the city or liberties, that they are now
prepared to receive from 6 to 700 persons at
the Encapment on. Matter's Place, in the
Northern Liberties where such perfous will
be fiiniidisd with comfortable apartme nts
and i (Tary piovifions during the present
calamity,
HEALTH-OFFICE,
11 th September, 1798.
FELLOW-CIT IZ*NS.
OUR address of the ittinft was in
tended to pr.fer.t to your view the deplora
ble ft ate of our city, and to excite into ac
tive exertion thephila thropy and benevo
lence so eminently charafteriftic of the iiti
7,eiiS of Pennfylvatjia. The fame generous
featimcnts which you have difplaytdhas in
fluenced the wortliy ai d benevolent citizens
of Bait more ; who always alive to the feel
ings of humanity, have, it app ar6 by the
-public papers, agretd to a fubfeription for
the relief of our diilreffed fellow citizens.
We return them all the gratituoe and ref
pe£t to which dispositions so. amiable are:,
entitled ; —but it becomes our diuy publiqj i
ly to ttate that a fu d has been provided for
the purpose, upon the principal of a lo in
in antici[uvtion of the liberality and justice
of our which precludes the '
Bect-ffity of donations in money from the ,
humane citizens of our filter (tales—C n
tribtitious of pr visions fro our
tizens in the ccu-.try, ?5 well in New Jersey
as in our own State, have been Forwarded
for the use of thediftieffid, with a liberali
ty which-does honor to the donops. 1
We flatter ourfelvts that similar donations ]
will be cofltiiHied by those generous indivi- t
duals, who are contiguous to the city, and
car, with convenience spare a part of their J
produce for the relief of fuffer'ng humanity. J
Bv order of the Board of Managers. .
Wm. JONES, Prefidetrt.
Atttft
Timothy Paxson, Clerk.
New Encampment.
The Committee who fuperintend'the en- ,
oampment at Walter's place near the Mill (
Pond on the Germantown Road, about t
two miles from the city, refpedtfully inform <
their country friends that they stand in need ;
tjf a« immtdiote fuppty of vegetables and (
Ursw for th use of those diftrefted citizens a
who are flying from the present calamity. 1
The committee flatter thewfelves that tbe 1
fame liberality will be found in the 'farmer, (
and others, to supply this Encampment, as [
has been to that on the Commons near Schuyl- a
kill, both having the fame laudable objett I
in visw. t
'John In (keep ~j I
' Jon. Robe/on S- committee. t
Jfiac IV. Morris. J
Camp. Mailers' Place,
September 10, '9B.
Agreeable to nctilication in fcveral of the |
newspapers of the City of Philadelphia, re- t
a meeting of the merchants, trad- '
erj, mechanics and other citizens at the (
Union School House in Germantown, on ;
Wednesday 29th August. at 4 o'clock P.
M. in order to fix on a suitable chara&erto
be offered at the ensuing eleSion to repre
sent the City of Philadelphia in Congress, i
in the vacancy occasioned by the deccafe of ,
John Swanwick, Esq. and also in the next 1
Congress—A senator, to represent in the
Itate senate, the city of Philadelphia and
County oflkfywnre—and fix persons to re
present 1 he city in thehoufj! of aflamhly.—
A numerous and refpeitable body of the
freemen of he city attenoed. The bufi- 1
ness of the meeting being opened, a letter
from captain Joseph Anthony, addrefled to
the chairman of the meeting was read, ex
■refling a decided opinion'on the necrffity '
Gf uniting the interelt of the friends of the
oonfti'.utioiv and government in the choice
of foieir reprefentative,that he conceived Mr '
Robert Wain well qualified for a frat in
and ioliciting his fcllovv.citizens
that "lis «ame way not be offered in cempt.;-
"it!t->ii with that gentleman; wh» has his ful
cOii.urrcnce and approbation.
ROBERT WALN,
v»»s nominated and unauicifiufly carried as
the Cand:.l:»te for Cong ess
FRANCIS GURNEY,
as ft.ite St-nalor for the dillriet ceropojed of
| the City and Comity of Philadelphia and
County of Delaware; and as members tore
preferit the City in afTembJy—
r Jacob Hiltzheim/r,
Lawrence Sect el,
Andrew Bayard,
. William Hall, printer.
'Samuel IV. Fifber,
Join Clement Stocker.
The queftiorr being put, will this meeting
support the foregoing ticket ? it was unani
f moufly agreed to, and it Was also reeom
j mended to the freemen of the City of Phi
j ladelphia attached to the federal government
r for their support, and to those of the Coan-
ty of Philadelphia and County of Delaware
r in support of the Senator.
Ordered, that the minutes of the meeting,
_ signed. by the chairman a .'id secretary, be
r published in the the City, for
' the general information of the ele&ors.
LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH,
Chairman.
r Daniel Smith, Secretary.
Germantown, 2sth Augujl, 1798.
lj German!own, September IJI, 1798.
1 j Mr. Fen no,
Please to pubiifli the following tickets
; for SeleS and Common Councils, at the ap
proaching eledion, and oblige one of y®ur
fellow.citizens. , '
SELECT COUNCI T .
Godfrey Jrlsga Thomas Willing, jwn.
Daniel Smi h Joseph Magoffin.
COMMON COUNCIL.
Lawrence Herbert
Henry Drinker, jun.
Gideon H. Wells
Casper W. Marris
Thomas P. Cope
George I'eiinock
Thomas Parker
Michael Kepple
Joseph Hopkinfon
Kearney Wharton
Conrad Gerhard
Giarg? Fox
John|Ruj>an
Edward Randolph
Malcolm M'Donnald
_ Joseph North (Union street)
I Levi Hollingfworth
1 George Willing
j*«Edward Pennington
I Jonathan Jonts.
Bank Notes Lojl.
letters addrefled to Edward Edwards■ of
Philadelplria, have been 101 l between the Poit
Office of that place and Frankford ; the jft letter,
da'ed at B»ltimore, September nth, 1798, con
tained in notes of the Bark of the t'nitcd States
No. 30, dated July i, 1794 —30 dollars.
583, do. May 16,1798—100 dollars.
11l the 2d letter, dated at Baltimore.- September
11, 1791, were tbe folljw'ng rotes of the fame
Bank, viz.
No. 36,-dated Jnr.e icth, 1798 —,jodo : lar8.
877, do. July tlth, 17 ;jS—50 dollars.
6389, do. Oil. 6th, 1798 —iso doiiars.
Fifty dollars will be given to any yerfo i who hat
■found and will rcftore the above letters and notes,
eifb'. iflo Robert Patton, Efq.at 'he Poll Office, or
to Mr John M'Clcllen in Frankl'ord.
S«ptember ao £
MA I L S
For Canada & Nova Scotia.
A Regular communication has been sometime
eftablilhed between the Poft-Offices of the
United States and the Pcft Offices of Canada, New
Brunfwick and Nwva Scotia, and will be continued
until further notice.
Thofc who have occasion to fend letters or news
papers through that channel mud fay the United
States portage at the poil-office, where the letters
or are depoHted, and without such
previous payment they will not he forwarded. «
General Poll-Oflicc, ")
Trenton, Sept. 19, '9B. )
September 20 3taw.}w
For bale at Public Auction,
ON THE PREMISES,
FOUR LOTS on Harper and Keith's wharf, in
Alexandria, on the «6th day of Oflober
next, if not fold at private sale before that time.
Wne of thtfe lots is near the end of the wharf,
t we*ty feet beyond which the water is two
deep, about forty feet -~ut three fathoms, fifty feet
out the water is four fathoms; and grows deeper
until it comei to the channel, which is aUouc sev
enty Itet from file ehii of the wha.-t. There is
as much dirt belonging to the bank as will level
the wharf, which may want railing about a foot
near the end. I'here is in this sale an half acre lot
very tit for a tavern ; it is well watered, and an ex
cellent Hand for thit business.- This property will
be fold for ready money, and al or separ
ate, as may belt suit the purchaser ; it lays on the
lower fide of Alexandria, which is now improving
very faQ. A fkctchof the ground may b-Tien in
the hinds of the Printer hereof. For terms at
private sale, apyty to Wm Hartshorns, or to
the fubl'criber, inAlcxandria.
JOHN HARPER.
September 3 iawßw '
03* A young Man in this city, i
capbleof keeping books & accounts in diff-rcnrlan
gunges, would engage to any writing bsfmefs, ei
ther by the iay or wc»ic, during the prevailing
fickncls. Good recommendations can be produced.
A line directed to N. G. and left in Arch street,
between Ninth arid Teßth flrcets, at No. IV4, will
immediately be attended to. Sept. 14.
FLOUR )?QR SALE 7
By the Sub/cribersf
Deliverable at any of the ports oa the Dela
ware—who have also on hand at their flores, a
quantity of Bar Iron, Pork and Corn—Letters by
the post will be attended to.
Levi Hollingswortb £9° Son.
augufl 28. dtf
i roR sale; '
A F'/iRM on the road leading to State Iftand,
within four and an half miles of Philadelphia,
containing 45 acres in th* highest state of cultivation
—2saeres of which is meadow, the remainder up
land. 1 here areon the prcmifes, a new frame House
and Barn, with an excellent kilchen garden, contain
ing a great number of frit Trees.—lmmediate poflef
fion will begVven,
For tciiiis apply to
Thomas JV. Frauds,
iutyiß No. 98 South Third ttreet;
i'LiKR BLIGHT
HAS r«»ioved his Counting House to his Htsufe
in the Northern Liberties oear Nice Town, Oer
maatewn road. augufl ai. |
1- P&NNSYLrjNIA,JF>
- In the Name anil toy the the do'ii
ls monwealtii of Pe -iftfyjvjn'u.
By THO MA S M IFF *L 1 N r ,
Governor of the fatfi Cofinwiiwraith,
)f A PROCLAMATION;
j it h.n been Hait i t 'me by_
* * the Pr«fi«tent and Diredlnrsof tiic Bank
of PeHnlyivauia, That on the "iglu ot ajtur
day the firft inftaut, the House utuv occupied by
the fail Bank, cemraonly called Carpcnttrs
Hall, was burgUriouflv entered.bv 1" me vlllaiw,
or villains unknown, and therefruiq a contdir
abl? number of Blnk t/otes of vittous defcrip
tiom asd denominatio.lw er« stolen and carried
away: to ths intent that the perpetrator,
or perpetrators of so great a crime, and Hit''
'? acceflariej thereto, maybedifc
I- to condign pfmifhttumt, I have deemed it expe
n- dient to iffwe this Proclamation, HtßmYoffer
j. ing and promtfirijf a reward of ONE THOU
SAND DOLLARS to any person, or perilms,
j who shall discover the perpetrator, or perpetra
tors of the said crime, ®r any of them, or any
re accefTiry thereto, Uttwe ort* alter the fa£lj to be
pnid on the cortviiftLon of all or any of the offen-
? t ders: AND Ido hereby further offer and pro;
;e mife A FREE AND ENTIRE PARDJN
■, r unto arty Qtie of the perpetrators, cr acce.Taiu-s
aforefiid of the oa.rnsitiion of t!•« laid crime,
who (hall make a full and fati-failo : '-y difclofnre
of all the cir> umliauces relauve to the contriving
and aocompliOiing the fame, and of ihe names
and places of atfjde of his or her aiTocia'.es, so
that fiich iflociate? may be apprehended and
convi.fled: AND all the Judges, Justices, She
riff*, Ccnifta'slcs, and other Publ ; c Officers of
this Commonwealth (according to the duties »f
their refpedfivg Rations) are hereby required and
ts enjoined to ale all lawful means to detcit and
5- bring to justice each and every pei fun concerned
ir in contriving),or perpetrating the crime afore
' said.
.GIVEN under my hand znd the Gr»at
, Sjalol the Scare, at Gerinantovvn, »he
(L*. S.) third day of September, in the year of
our Lord one thousand levea hundred
and ninety-eight, and of the Common
wealth th» twenty-third.
THOMAS MIEFLIN.
By the Governor;
A.J DAU.as,
Secretary of tbs Commomotalth:
Pursuant to the Aft of Congress, pas
sed on the nihrh day of July, 1798, entitled
«' Aft Aa to-provide for the valuation of lands
arid-dwelling houf»s ard the enumeration of
pjves within the United States,"—NOTlCE
is hereby given, that .tke firft meeting, of the
Commilhoneis under th> said A& fWtheftate
ot Pennsylvania, will be held on Monday, the
twenty fecdnd day of October ne\r, at the bo
rough of Reading, in the said Hate.
C. READ,
Comwinionei" firft .named.
Sept 8, r7fj x
To the" Creditors of' Jobn jJukson,
of Milton, in the Cou ty of Nortbumbei larnl,
ami State oj Pennfylnania.
GENTttHIN, .
TAKE NOTICE, that I have appliad to the
Couir of Common Picas in and lor the County of
v Northumberland for the benefit of the several
- laws hude for the relief of In(, Went Debtors, and
> that the havo appointed the jaft Monday in
O&ober next to h .nr me and my ri at the
said Court in the towr ps ounhury, at which time
and place you are deiired to attend.
Mi ton *rh Sept. JOHN D'CKS )M.
LA N D I N(T:
ALdourn Sfcre .-t wJwf, the cargo of tlifc (hip Con
ned icut, from Bat.ma —
About 300 tons of Java Coffee,
of the giewth of 171.-4 and 1795
60 tons of Java Sugar,
In cantnfters—-for Tale by
PETER BLIGHT,
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR. SALE,
150 hhtfs. choice Jamaica Sugars
Jamaica rum in hhds
Brandy rH and 4th proof in pipes, hhds.
and quarter c^lks
Madeira in pipss
Old £ratavia Arrack
july i $
notice. ~
Bank of North America,
Augvfl iSth, 1798.
r ~P , HOSE Perf©n« who hive Needful Bills to pay
X at this Bank are informed,
That regular Notices will he .put under a sealed
cover diretAed to the refpe&ivc payer and lodged
in the Poft-Office eTtfry Monday untH the return
of the citizens.
RIGHARD WELLS, Cajl k
aug. 29 dri
COLLECT()R's OFFICE,
PJllLadslpuia,
THE bufinelV cf the Custom Houft- Will frotn
t«is day be tranfa<stej at Chester, during the con
tinuance of the fever wiiich mow prevails in rhia
city ; and in canfequthce thcreof 5 the m rchants
are her«by notified, that payment of all bonds ior
duties to the United ptattv, payable at this office,
may be made either at the Cullom House in Ches
ter, or at the Bank of the United State*.
Office, >
Philadelphia, Atig. 50. j
This Day is PublUhed,
AND FOR SALE BY J. F F. N KO, ) i (), C H E S N U T-S 1 REET
AN ADDRESS
la the People of Maryland,
ON the origin, progress and pre Aat state of
French aggression, with a iketch of the infanvous
attcßipts to degrade the Government of the United
States, and some reflexions on the late proceedings
in Congrels; written the last of April in the pre
fentyear, by a Member of the House of Represen
tatives. $ juneil
The Office of the Committee,
Appointed to fuperinteud th« building of the
Frigate to be loaned to the United States, is rcmo
ved to No. 11l JSprucc street—os which thofegen
tlemen who have not already come forward with
their li»brcriptions will please to take notice:
ROBERT-RITCHIE, Sec'ry.
august 7
To be Sold,
An elegant and convenient House,
In Cbefnut Jlrett, next door t» the Bank of North Anuiriea.
THE Let is thirty by one hunored and seventy
eight. The House has been thoroughly repaired
within a few mouths.— — Apply to the Printer,
august 8 $
W. Young,
BOOKSELLER iff ST.rTIONER^
INFORMS his friend* and wholesale cu'omers
in the country, who find it difagruaable to en
ter the city during th« present Fever, That orderi
| will be received, and executed with all pofliblc dis
patch, at the
j WHITE-HALL PRINTING OFFICE,
| in th« Tihite building, above the Milestone, o*
- the Ridge-Road
* ' Hi»cuftomers i> - . the cityare also informed
that the Store in the City will be open, every dav,
Sunday exct fted, from Nine until One of the cl%k.
| iuguftsj. liiW
■» * *
f6r- sale, *•' ;
ftie "a:"* , Q f t:»e schr. Sincerity
.vlvjuteith Master, from Laguira,
C*K5 Im NC OF
94 «■ of Cocoa
400i> IS. of Flora Itidigo
no B i "n of Cotton
x Packjgesof O'Mf '•%_ it
By Willings & Francis.
No. Elcvenrh Jhcet.
July; 2: dtf
*. Notice i& hereby~given,
THAT applicStroh wili l>e made to the Trcafn
ry of the Unn<M •States for the renew l of the
Certificart s of Six Per Funded
Srock, tlauditHi in *he name of Jtb« Car&oveU, of
London, rhe i'vA Certificates having : en 101 lon
board the SwU|qvv Packet, Captain Kidd. from
to New-York.
No. 3072 I Cert, for 2000 dolls. "1
I Jo. JOOO >-
10,577 I do. 3000 J
IVillings Iff Ft a" is.
Philadelphia, august eo6w
FO R" S ALE;
SY THE SUBSCRIBERS) NO. ELRV EN T H-ST R F ET,
18 Bags Fresh Cloves.
Willings iff Francis.
?q. ■ dtf
WILLIAM M'LAWS,
SADLER & If JEWESS MAKER,
HAS Rcmovftf to the Corner of Chefnut
and Twelfth-ftreetsj 011 the Gommons,
where he will receive and execute the orders of
his Iriends and wholelale with iifual
attentioji & txpedii ion dwing the prevalence of
the present Epidemic, where it has not made its
appearance tkia feafun, nor dwring any of the
years pali.
august 25
Madras and Venlapaulein
j HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries,
of the newest and moll approved patterns,entitled
to the drawback, just received,
AN® FOR SALE 8 V
Mx. J. Miller iff Co.
No. 64, Sowth Front street.
riay 18.
Doftor GOURDES
No. 28, Pine-Street ;
Late SUROIiON in the amii-.sof St. noaiingo
OFFERS his services to the udiabitants of Phi
ladclj hia iu the line of hs profefTion. He
flatters himfcli that his long fucceisful experience
in the Weft-India fevers, will procure Vim ;he con
fidence oi the citizens of this city ; particularly
attacked by the present Epidemic,
a-uguik 15 eo'n
0" ihe Subscribers have remov
ed for the present from Penn-flrert to Eievemh
street, between Filbert and Bigh-Oreets.
Wilhngs iff Francis.
9 <S;w
Arrived in i(u Jhip Pennsylvania, Cap. Wil
li amson, from Hamburgh, now lying at
fihejler.
A Number of .GERMAN SERVANTS, mfli,
C\ wsmen. boy 3 and girls, amonglt whpm are
Gurifmiths, Carpenters, Turners, Taylors, Black
(niiths. Gardeners, Masons, Coachmen,
&c. &c whose time of Servitude is to be difpofeu
of on board the Ship, by
GURNET V SMITH.
august 2%.
iiengaj Goods,
A V CON'iISTJWG GF
xjtw orjiicrs.
Chintz ColTas Maharazgungy
Chintz Guzziaas Tookereys
Eliabad Baftas Wrought Muslins
Long Drawers
Coarse .Sugars in bags, fit for the European markets
ALSO,
Carolina
Coffee in hogiheads
A few pipes of very old and very choice Madeira
WINE
i) For Sale; oh reafonpble term*, by
Jobn Cmigy
No. iz, Dock-itreet.
July 14 mwstf
FOR SALE, ry
John Miller, Jun.
NO. 8, CHESNUT STREET,
100 hogil/eads RUM,
Of high proof and fine flavour
foly *9 .. §
Bank of Pennsylvania.
THE Bank of Pennsylvania is removed to Ger
mantown, —where the hufinefs will be tranfa&ed
to-morrow, in the Ur'iorl School floufe.
JONATHAN SMITH, Cafliier.
September 4 §
AT.a TIC E.\
Bank of the United States,
September 4, 1798.
THE Public are informed that after the 9th inft
this Bank will be opened at 9 o'clock in the mom .
ing, and so remain untiluoon.
G. SIMPSON, Calhier.
N 0 T I C E,
Bank of the United States,
Augujl 28, 1798.
r T"HOSE persons who have Notes a.' Bills to
X pay at this Bank, are informed,
That regular Notices will he put under a seal
ed covsr directed to the refpeiftive payer and
lodgod in the Poft.Office every Monday until
the return of the Citizens.
G. SIMPSON, cajhier. '
august 18 3awtf
Pennsylvania Hospital,
9 mo. r, 1 7|B.
NO pi;rfon with an infeilious disease, can be
admitted ir-to this house ; it is therefore eur
neftly recomfoended to the citizens, not to fend
or * ring any such patient to the gate, who is ill
with the prevailing fever. Several persons hiving
been sent here improperly, is the reason of giving
this caution.
Sitting' Managers, HIGOINS, Stiw'd.
NOW LANDING,
Fnom on board the brig Amiable Matilda, from
BoukJcjux, andfor Cde by the fubferiber,
88 c asks CL ARE r
71 do. do of a sups rior quality
affunksgteen PARASOLS.
' Thomas Murgatroydy
No. u.'Walnut-ilrcet.
WHO HAS ON HAND,
Whit* Wine in half t dis T
Sweet Oil of a fuperror quality, in j
boxes and batketi
Lunelle "J I Entitled to.
Sautcrne j ! Drawback.
Inlh M.rket >- WIN£S in Cases
Mccarty and i
M-dtc J
Rota Wine in hhds.
Pimento in bag*,
may ly. cetf
For Sale.
' I 'HE Sobsckihir, iutending to decline the
I DKI G, UCSINX-SS, offers For Sale, the
whole of f
Drugs and Medicines, Inftrumcnts,
Vicsyitfc.Jious, anil fuffici
c unknown for ffi. est, iiftve Inifincfe t'onc in the
retail lit\; tlVc situation equal to
any in tnliity, being at the Colder of Walnut and
Second flreets. The whole, or any part of the
Stock, will he fold, as will bed suit the purchaser.
' Th« terms may be known, by applying to
| JAMES MOORE, jun.
Who has For Sale,
Well calculated tor the
I he Peggy, about 3otonsburthen,
Mulberry and f<cd Ced r frame, and remarkably
stout, of an ealy draught of water,.rigging in
good order.
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
wetl, and in complete order forxhe lumber business.
All persons indebted to the late firm of
Gwidth wait iff Baldwin, )V. B GolJtbivait, GulJ
tbivait & Mire, or the fuMVri er, are earnestly
rtqucfted to make fpcedy payment to
James moore, jon.
Skip b 5 Insurance Broker,
""THiE Subscriber, encouraged by the advice
J- of his friends, oilers his iirvice to tie pub
lic as a Ship and lnftjrjr.ee Broker. ?J« pro
poles to buy and f< II vclT'ds and every thing re
lating thereto—aflifl maft.ers of vefle!3 and others
in entering and clearing at the Cuilom House,
procuring and (hipping freight, fettling Inlur
auce and ill other mercantile accounts, and have
«» hand the neceUary Blanks and Stamps.
Papers in 'oceign languages translated, and
I-Monmjion given in genkral mercantile matters
of every bian*h of huGne!'. he hopes to be u'e
tid to tbofe who pleale to favor him with th&ir
commands. SAMUEL EMUtiT.
Philadelphia, angutt »4tfi, i;sß. $
City Commissioners' Office"
Im c A UOU sr 30, I?9 g.
N pun u»nce of an ordinance of the SelcA and
f j onim o" Councils, paffedthc aid day of May
179°>
i Propofahin writing will be received hy he City
ComtKiffio«ers for one month from th# firllof S-n.
tember next, for letting to rent on leases for o«e
-year•, to commence the Srft day of January next,
the following publioproperty of the cits
T he wharf ;ud landing on VißelUcefa
Also on 5 affair as.
Mulberry,
And High streets.
CKe.fuut.an,, W l.u.ftreeM, Drawbridge, with
the Scale and Fi(h houses, Spruce, Pins and Cedar
Streets.
The Cellar under the City Hall.
.' h * tavern at thomiddU ferry on Schuylkill
withtlt lets contiguous thereto (except so much
thereol as find he occupied by any buildings erec
ted for the vie of the Colledor of the Tolls, or be
necessary for the toll )
A stated meeting of the City Commissioners will
e held at the City Hall every Tuesday morning at
ten oolo.k. during the present epidemic eoim
James CTtfTSamirwTFtp^
No, 13. Arch-Stkut,
Have Jor Sale
100 Calks best refined Salt Petre
r„« t . "-.i.Vjhi »u uy b to
il oy 10
Ditto GJafe Ware in Calks afTorted onfiftiiig
of pint and half-pint Tumblers, Wine
Glafles, Goblets, &c.
a»l so,
A few Bales of Red, White and Yellow Flan«
nels, Baires and Kendall Cottons.
j"" e 2 l 3«wtf
To be Sold, at private Sale,
A Plantation and 'Tiaff of Land
CON sAINING 14! acres, lituate in White*
marffi tow 11 (hip, in thecounty of Montgom
ery, about 15 miles from "Philadelphia, ami on
the public road leading from Plymouth by the
Broad-Ax tavern toward Horfhairi, and about
one quarter of a mile from said tavern, alb.
about the fame diftjnee from the Skippack loaa
and about the fujie di lance from the late resi
dence of James Mortis esq. diceafed. It is
bounded by lands of Anthony M rris esq. Ja
cob Krfff and Det« tiler, about ten acres are
gbod watered me.idow, about 15 or ao aieur.
der cbver, aod about 35 acies are well timbered.
The buildings on the above farm conlifl of a
two-flpry (tone dwelHng-houfe, a large ftomi
bam and Hone fpring-houfc. Thete is also oi>
the premises a youiig orchard of about 150 ap
ple trees. 1
This farm hat great advantages of water, as
there is an excellent never-failing flream paffiog
by the house and bain, in such a manner as tr
supply the fame as well as every field with a fu »
ficient quantity.
The ipring over which the spring-house h
buiit, is excellent water, and is also very near
and convenient to the dwelling house.
The situation of this place u hea iliy an-1 in a
good neighborhood, and is neat to fcveral dif
ferent places of worship, and within the di(
tance of half a mile from two grill and saw
mills, r.lfo near lime-kilnt.
This farm will be fold together or divided in
to two parts as may suit the purcnaferj. Also
a two-story stone house with a barn -mlcaiTiag;
house and lot of land situate on Chciiiut-hill. I;
is a very high and healthy fixation, and com
mands a very extenfiveand beaii'ifui profpea-
Pofl'effion of part of the house may be had im
mediately.
For further particulars apply to 11. nry Pratt,
No 94 North Water-ftr'&"t Philadelphia, op to
CHRISTOPHER *HEYDRICK,
on Cbcsnut-Hill.
Clteli-.nt-liill, angutt ijtli, t7 i,g. ijwff
ADVERTISEMENT.
WHEREAS Jam js Cummino ts" Co. late of
the city 0/ Philadelphia, merchants, have
affigacd over all their tffea,, real, personal and
mixed, to thi lubkrib.rs, for t't b'caef.t of all
their creators, who fl.all the said afiig..-
ment within fix months from the date hereof.
NO 1 ICE IS HEREIii GIVKN, toaliperfons
who are indebted to -the faideflare, tha: they are
required to make imiwdidte payment of their rcf
pedive account., to th« Afligneea, at their office.
No. 62, Dock in failure whereof odious
will be in litxted for the recovery of such debt. a<
arc not discharged accordinHy.
John Travis, ~ »
John IVaddington, .
■j< me, Taylor, Aflignew
Ci (j melius Co turfy s
18 mwftiD
TO BE SOLD,
H| "HE time of anind-nted Dutch Servant BOY,
i who has ten years to fervc. He has had the
fma'.l pox and me-dles, is adive, hearty and flrong,
iind fit 'er house work id town or country, tor
further information, enauire of the printer,
august 4