AND Philadelphia Dai
NvmsEX i7©7»J
For Hamburgh,
f HI 3 H 1»
OMINIcK Terry, c
Jacob Dshart, Majiir,
Having great part of her cargo en
gaged.—For freight apply to
JeJ'c iff Robert Wain. ft
fehraary 26 S I
Nicklin Sff Griffith, *
At their Store on Walnat Street Wharf— n
HATI FOR SALS, F
jS hhds. of Jamaica Rum \
Madeira Wine in pipes aadhhds.
Teneriffe do. in pipes t
t)44 Port do. in hhde. f<
imperial Tea in quartera and eighths »f chefti ft
Caftvafs, No. 1, to 8 y
Diisitics, Gingh-res, and Muflinets, in packa- tl
gee suitable for the Weft-lodia market
Nails aflorte t b
Black quart bottlet j*
Queens ware in hhds. and crates
Yellow «chre dry ia Cllk6 ;
Atid at New-York, on board the 0
ship Diana, from Liverpool, expefled round f<
as I'oon at the navigaH*m la open,
Fine Liverpool Salt
Coals b
Spinifti Brown j 0
Venetian Red i . -
Purple Brown * i p AINTS
Patent Whit« f f
White Lead
Red Lead J
Colrothar vitriol 0
160 bundles Sheathing papar 3
Seaming Twine
Ship Diama, a
For Salt or Charter. f
ALSO,
Brie Am axon.
N- B. The late firm of Philip Nicklin & Co. J
ie now ohanped to
NICKLIN & GRIFFITH. \
January I. eodtf t
For Savannah,
~l The fall failing S hip *
SWIF r PACKET, J
Gribben, tnafler, .
,iW? WILL fail on the 10th iuft. ,
Sice permitting) has handsome accommodation! j
or paflengers. For freight or paflage apply to ,
the master onborrd, at fiickley's wharf, above 1
Market-flreet, or I
N. & J- Frttiier, <
No. 9J» South Front-street.
February j. j !
For Amiterdam, i
The Ship
FARMER,
John M'Coliom, Master ;
fail In a few days, the
KJoSlKSßSiSgreater part of her cargo being •
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffer, or
partake, apply to the master on board, at Wal
nut-Hreet \\ harf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who it landing, out ot the said Ship, from
Bourdeaux, and for sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter casks
Claret fricafet, of a faperior quality
Fontiniac, "f
Santeme, > WlYies in cafe*
Lunille, J
Prunes in bo*e»
N«v«mbe 14.
For Sale or Charter,
||t|L GOODHOPE
Will carry about uoo barrels, and
■fcgfejgSj iareadv totake in a cargo. For terms
Pragers £sf Co.
No. 151, South Second-street.
Who have far sale—prime St. Croix Sugar
and Hum, Madera, Lifcon, and Teneriffe, wine.
November 7. d'f
Twenty Dollars Reward,
FOR taking up a runaway Servant Girl, named
Abigail Miller, latterly calling herfelf Betsey
Smith, and fending her to North Front-llreet, No.
45. She is of a chunky make, and very dark
complexion, withround fcataret, and black bufliy
hair j probably much altered by paint and pow
ers, as she is luppofed to befeereted in houses of
d lame, though no more than fifteen years of age.
February »■ catw
"House and Lots, in Bordentewn.
TO BE SOLD, a handsome two story House,
with the Lot on which i' is ereiJWd, fituat
«d about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
Village of Bordentown. The hoHfe it forty
two Set in front, and in neat order. The lot
contain? one aere, and it one hundred feet on
the main street, and extends with the fame
breadth to back street. Also, a large Lot, con
taining Bearly four acres, separated from the
former by back street. One third only of the
purchase money will be required upon execut
ing a deed, and for the remainder, such crrdit
■wfll be give* at the purchaser may chufe. This
propeny will be fold free of all incumbrances,
and an indisputable title given.
For further particular! enquire either of Dr.
William Burner residing in Bordentown, near
the uremifes, who will (hew the fame, or of
¥ PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, No. 144, Market-street.
December 1. 3 aw "
~7n~the press,
HUB Sfalß'LY WILL B* rUBiISHID,
(friet 15 Cents)
Reflexions on Monroe's View
ot ran conduct or rtr sxscmrt,
As puUilhed in the
OAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
Under the fignatut* of
SCIPIO,
In which thee orafflercial wa-fare of France it
traced to the French faflion in thii country
, ;. k fonrcr, anil the motives of the opposition
t* the nteslertt of'he United States are expot d.
"fch. I
PHILADELPHIA:
Public Sale of Real Estates.
1
On THURSDAY Evening, the 15th of g
February next, will be exposed to Public £ale, f
at the Merchants' Coffee-houfo in Second-flreet, j.
at 6 o'clock in the evening, the following t
ESTATES. c
No. I. A two (lory brick House, with « two j,
story frame Buildings, on a lot 10 feet front and r,
lOC feet deep ; also, a vacant Lot of 40 feet (quare, tl
with the privilege cf an alley to go thereto. Thii t
interest has lately been let for 100 dollars per an
num, and is situated in Chriftian-ftrcet, between
Front and Second-facets, the fecoad house from
Mr Caleb Alh's. r
No *. A three (lory brick House, situate at
the Rorthcaft corner of Chcfnut flreets, being 14 1(
feet on Second-street, and 10 feet on Chcfnut- o
street, now in she tenure of Mr. Motange, at the c
yfearly rent of 430 dollar*, and w deemed one of J
the bed {lands for the sale of dry goods in this city, a:
No. }. A handsome well finilbed three story o
brick House, 10 feet front and 100 feet deep, situ
ate in Fifth-ftreet, between Market and Arch
ftreets. No. 40. This oufe is built and finilhed
in the modern style, is in complete repair, with -
doable cellars under the whole. Thei eis a ciflerii
of rain water in the yard ; and the house is at pre
fer t let for 600 dollars per anßum with the taxes.
No. 4. A three story brick House, situate in
PUimb-ftreet, between Second and Third street, /
being 10 feot front and 130 feet deep, at present
occupied by Robert Kenny.
No. 5. A three story brick House, on the
fide of Front-street, No. 171 North, going thro'
to Water-street, where it is five story. It is 16
feet front and 48 feet deep, in complete repair,
and is rented for 600 dollars per annum.
The conditions of Sale are, one quarter cafli,
one quarter in 6 months, one quarter in 9 months, 11
and one quarter in 12 months. -
Philadelphia, Jan 11,1798. 3 1W
gy- On account of the present bad weather, the
above sale is poßponed until Thurtday evening, the
firft day of March, at 6 o.clock. Feb. 16.
Valuable Property for Sale.
FOR SALE,
THAT well known Estate, called SHREWS
BURY FARM, formerly the residence of
General John Sadwaladcr, situate on Safiafras Ri- -
ver, in Kent county, Maryland—containing a- a
bout 1900 acres of prime LAND, upwards of 500 t
•f which are in woods. The Buildiugs are all ex- '
cellent, and consist of a handsome D welling House, '
two large Bams with Cow houses, Stables for fifty '
horses, a fpaeious treading floor under cover, »
granary, two Overseer's houses, two ran
ges of two story buildings for Negroes (one of .
them new and of brick), Com houses, a Smoak J
house , &e. &c. —The whole Estate being nearly
surrounded by water, it requires but 'ittle fencing,
and has a good Shad and Herring fifhtiy. It is
conveniently fit jated for both the Philadelphia and ,
Baltimore markets, with two landings on a navi
gable river but a (hort fail from Baltimore There
is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
the piemifcs; also, a variety of excellent fruits of
different kinds. The foil is moflly a rich loom.—
The whole will be fold together, or divided into
f nailer farms (for which the buildings are conven
iently Cruated) as may suit the purchaser. The
Stock on said Farm, consisting of Horses, Cattle,
Sheep, &C. will also btdifpofedof. For further ,
particulars apply to Gxorce Hastings, on the
premises, or tothe fuhferiher, in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jun.
»aw6w
JUST ARRIVED, ,
In the Ship Star, Jcfeph Woodman, master, from
London, %
50 crates Queens' Ware, aflfort
ed te suit WdT India market
40 h>gfheads Whiting
1500 bulhds god House Coals
/ L SO— JUST LANDED,
4ro barrels prime Beef, Boilon and New-York
50 barrels Pork
150 hhds. Hava>na Molaflet
Woolen Cloths^)
Blaukete > afloried in packages
Hard Ware J
Rareas Duck
Window Glass in boxes, Bririfh, of various sizes
Black quart Bottles, in hampers of I groce «ach
A general afTortraeut of Queens* Ware, in crates
Fowling Pieces and Fiftols, in cases
Baiket fine Salt, in hogsheads
FOR SAL h BY
Tbos. Iff John Ketland.
February 15 . ftiM
Sallfbury Estate.
rHE Subscriber, promoting to contra® hii busi
ness, offers this Estate for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Biaft and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very Rood grift
Mill, with two pair of Hones ; also a good Forge, all
in perfctt repair,asare all the WJker VVork*conne£l
' ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
• were lately built lor the pnrpofe of calling Cannon
1 for this State.—There are abou- two thousand acres
' of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the bed Hay and
f Failure. The Cannon lately manntatturcd there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
luperior to any in this eouotry, and probably, equal
' te say in the world ; for not otic ot fixtv-niiie guns
lately made, although some of the 14 were bored
, into 32 pounders, have tailed an proving. The fnu
- ation is very eligible, particularly foe this branch of
j manufacture, a«d a place ot arms lying in the ttste
of Conneflicut,«nd only 30 miles from several land «
. ings on the Hudson's 1 iver, and having every advan
tage that can result trom • plenty of water iffuiog
1 ftom a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
e and which may be converted into a variety of other
" uleful purposes. The purchaser c«n beaccommodit
e ed wilh all the ftoek and uienfils, and have pofeflion
e onor before the firft of June nex\ and preparation
- miy be made in the mean time for going into Blast im
t mediately thereafter, for every pat 1 will be deliveied
s in good order, with some coal. Ore, Ac. 6rc. For
terms, apply to Mr. |o(eph Anthony, in Philadel
' phi a; Bavid Brooks, Elq. one of the Representatives
in Congress lor this State ; Mr, DdVid Waterman, on
'* the premiles, or tothepropiietor in New-York.
I r WILLIAM NEII.SON.
Dee. 1. 3**tf
Surveyor General's Office,
December 1, 1797.
- a release of survey of 433 acres.6B perches
of land, fnuate in lower Smithfiel I townlkip
Northampton county, surveyed to William Wills,
per warrant of id March, 1786, the Deputy Sur
y veyorhafh mad. the following note, viz,
This land claimed by heirs ef L ewis Gordon and
George Taylor, not known by what right.—Cer
tified for Daniel Broadhead, Esq. Surveyor Gene
ral—William Parker.
The firft Monday In March ncit is appointed for
a hearing of the parties on the a -ove e.rcat, or any
• others interetted or concerned therein, they having
II at lead thirty days notire for John Hall, Secretary
'' of the Land Oflsce.
'J tf. Lufborough.
januaaf a 6 stlF»wtm
By John Fenno, N 6,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY aft, 1798.
NOTICE.
WHEREAS a Certificate to Hannah S«eL
lt, of Oxted Cottage, in the County Of c
Surrey, in Great Splnfter, or her afiigns \
for two thousand five hundred and sixty-two dol i
lars twenty-three cents, in the deferred flock of
the United States, was loft in the fliip Peggy,
Capt. Hycr, bound from Philadelphia to London
in the yar 1796. The fuhferiher, the fiid Han
nah Shelly, intends to apply to the Treasury of
the Uaited States, lor a renewal of the said Cer
tificate.
HANNAH SHELLY.
Feb. *3. iiw6w. I
THE term of Co-partnership between the fuh ■
feribers, trading under the firm of John Mil
ler, jun.and Co. expires this day, and by mut'.al
consent will not be renewed* The debts afd con
cerns of the fame will be fettled by John Miller,
Jun. to whom all those indebted.to the partnership
are earnestly requelled to make payment to, with
out delay.
JOHN MILLER, Jun.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER. -
February 19 §tl
FOR SALE, ir
John Miller, jun.
A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
Gurrahs Mamoodies
Baftas Santlaa
Guzzenai Tanda CofTaes
Guzzies Emertics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palampoors Romall Handkerchiefs
/mortgft them are a great proportion of the ma
nufactures of Patna.
British Dry Goods,
ALSO,
Forty puncheons of high proof Rum.
February 19 5
Alex. J. Miller iff James Davis,
Having entered into under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller Iff Co.
INFORM their friendsin town and country, that i
th y have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store, ]
at No. 64, South Front Street, Philadelphia i when ,
they now have, and intend keseping a general as-
fejtment of Irt.!ij. Germ tn, Iriji, French and Bri
tijb Mannfa&uresfot sale, on advantageous termt .
for calk or a short creoit.
February 19
For Sale by the Subscriber,
Forty-nine bales of Muslins, being tke re- .
mains of the (hip India'* fcift cargo from
Calcutta, and will be/old low,
7 Boxes of Umbrellas
15 Pipes of fined particular Madeira wine, ;
of the vintage of
Mordecai Lewis.
February 19 d2vr
A PRINT.
rHE Print, representing Geniral W/iSHpfO
t©n and his family, all whole lengths in one
groupe, will be ready for delivery by the 15th of
March next. .
An uofinifhed impreflien i*to befeenat Mr. M'El
wees's lo»)kiog-glaf$ store. No. 70South Fourth Street.
Tne fubfenption will elofc 00 the xoih of March
next. Sub f c ibers m?y depend on having the best
Prints at one guinea and an half. to non-Jubfcrrbers,
the price will be two guineas.
February 19. ____
FOR SALE,
A quantity of C ALF SKINS, in the rough,
and some hotfe leather. Apply to
ROBERT SMITH Co.
N0.58, South Front ftreit.
Feb. 15.
NOTICE
IS hereby given, that the Subscriber, an insol
vent debtor, confined in the common yqal of
the County of Cape May in the state of New
Jersey, hath presented his petition to the Judges
of the Inferior Court of Common Fleas, in and
for the said county, prajing that they would
attend to hear what can be alledged for or a
gainst his liberation, puritan; to an adt of the
Legislature of this State,entitled "an adl for
the relief of insolvent debtors," palTt-d the 26th
day of January t -*98 —And the the fa d tourt
did appoint Monday t»e 26th day of March
next for the purpose aforefaid ; to meet at the
Court House in the Middle Piet-intf, at eeveii
o'clock, in the forenoon of the said day, of which
bis creditors are requeftsd to take notice.
CHARLi.S ALLEN.
Cape May, Feb. 8, 1798.
Feb 14 —taw<w
Prison Manufactory.
FOR SALE, '
At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
' Cut Nails of all sizes, from jdy to aody
I Flooring Brads, faddle and card Tacks
1 Oakum and chipped Logwod
1 Shoemakers and Satlkrs Thread
Also—Sawed MarTjle. suitable for currier's tables,
F tomb and hea l Hones, hearths, chimney pieces,
: platforms, slabs, (acia, window lieaji, fills, c .
• All which may he had on reasonable terms,
Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at
• a moderate price.
■ Orders from a di'.'.ance, dire&ed to Daniel Tho
r mas, agent for the prison, will be attended to.
December 26. mth6m
1
' For sale or to be let on ground
-1 rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground I
s QITUATE on the north-east corner ofWal
n O nut and Fifth flreen, fronting the State-
Hrufc square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
. feet and an half on Fifth street; there are ai
present two fniall two story brick houles, and a
number of fmail tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
J, Two three ltory Brick Hdufes
s, With-convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on
■- Water street, between Mulberry and SalTafrae
Street', containing in front on Water street fif
d tv-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-live feet, the* widening to the
- south thirteen feet fix inches. These houles
have the convenience of a publ c alley adj in
• irg on the north fide, and area very defirablefit
y nation foi a a merchant, flour faflor, or others
S who may have occasion for storage of goods.
' This properly will be fold on very reasonable
terms tor calh. For t'urthor information apply
to the printer.
July 31. H»A.wtf
119 Chefnut Street.
gF The Ihip St a* from Leadon will commence
discharging to-morrow merning at Walaat street \
wharf, where cnnlignees are requeft-d to fead their
permits immediately.
Frhruary
This Day ii Published,
By John Ormrod,
No. 41* Chefnut-Areet, Philadelphia,
a PLAN por thk CONDUCT or
FEMALE EDUCATION,
Tn Boarding Schools, Private Families, and Public
0 Seminaries. •
By ERASMUS DARWIN, m.d.f.r.».
Author 0/ Zoonomia, and of the Hotunit Garden.
To v/l.ich are adile !,
RUDIMENTS OF TASTE,
IN A SERIES OP LETTRRi.
From a IVIOTHER to her DAUGHTERS.
Embellished witli an ekgant Frontispiece.
(Price, neatly bound, gilt and lettered, one dollar. J
consents.
The Female Character, Music and Dancing, Uead
ing, Writing, Grammar, Languages, Phyfiog
liomy, Arithmetic, Geography, Natu
ral Hillory, Rudiments ot Taste, Beauty, Grace,
Drawing and limbroidcry Perfpc&ive H< arhen
Mythology, polite Literature, Novels, Art* and
Sciences, Morals, Companion Veracity, Pru
dence, Justice, Chastity, Fortitude, Balhfuln- fs,
Temperance, Religion, Addrafs, Conyerfati«n.
Exercffe, Dumb Bells, Air, Bed-rooms Fire
grates, Care of the Shape, Cold Bath, Dress,
Ear rings, Powder, Amusements Chefs, Pu
ni(hn?«nts, Reward*, Motives, Lilp ng, Strim
merii g, Squinting, Involuntary Motions Swel
led Fingers, and Kibed Heels, Beds, Rheuma-
Dier, New Milk, Economy, School-tedu
cation, uses of, Catalogue of suitable Books.
AL4O JUST rUB ISHFD,
The Looking Glass for the Mind,
O R,
The Juvenile Friend ;
Being a valuable collegian of interesting and
mii'ce laneous incidents, calculated to exhibit to
young miwls the happy eftedls of youthful in
nocence aad filial affeSion—ln prole and verle.
Defigncd to improve and amuse the riling gene
ration. Embellished with an elegant Frotif
piece and seventy-three Cuts. Price 75 cVlts.
Feb. 16. 3t
Bafkenridge—for sale
XT consists of 91® acres, aim oft all of which is
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidente of the late
Eerl of Stirling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which are bounded on the
East by the river Pafaiek.
Th-r» are on it a number of building*, forming
afquare of nearly three acres—The dwelling houle
is a very convenient one and,a fmallexpenoe would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard consists of 1500 finsbearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other pirts of said
trait near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great
varie'y of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
best and most de.lkious kinds. .
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
Forest Tre»s, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its fituatioß is abcut <8 milee
from the towns of Newark and ElizaNcth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and 11 from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
I s favc trouble, the price 'n five pnuna pr. acre
in cafc, on delivery 0/ the deeds. Pleale to en
quire of T.
No 78, Chefnut trcet.
February 4 eodtf
Landing this day,
From on board thu schooner Two Friends, Dan
iel Crawlev, Mailer,
80 (Jamaica RUM,
I' 2 pipCS ) J '
FOR SALT BY
George l.atimcr Iff Son.
KQi'emher q. i.
Bolton Glal's Manufactory.
f iM2cns of she I T 'nited State*- are hereby
L informed, that the mmufadfare of Win low
Glass is now commenced at the Glass Hou& iu
Bolton
It is needless to fay any thing of the excellent
qualify of theßoft-n Glal'*, as it well known
throughout the United States to be in every rcf
pe& greatly superior to any ever imported irom
Europe.
It will be cut to any fizc commonly used ; and
may be conflantly had by applying to Charles F.
Kupfer, at theGlaf Houljp
Orders fnmthe distant Statestobe addrelTcd to
Mr. Samuel Core, Court-lti o a t, Boftnn.
iwo or threi t(ood Glass mak rs are want
«d at the above works; such as can produce re
commendations for good behavior, maybefureof
employ, by application to Mr. George Z. Lindt y at
the works. Men without families will be pre
ferred. However unacquainted with the method
of making Crown Window Glass, they will meet
v 1 ith the fame encouragement.
Boflon, January 16 2; —iaw6w
Just Published,
And to be had at the Book-stores of MefTrs. Dob
son, Campbell, Young and Ormkqd,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caules and Cure of Remitting or Bilious
Fevers.
To which is annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and praAicc of
different authors: and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interesting fa<Sh and refle&ion* relative to
the Synochus I&erorfts> Or Yellow Fever, which
has occasioned so much distress and mortality,
at periods, in several of the seaport
towns of the United Stares of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Felow of the Philadelphia Colhge of Fhyficians,
and Member of the American Philoiophicai So
ci«ty. Feb. i—*jms
Canal Lottery —No. 11,
WILL commence drawing Monday, the 20th
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven. Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN*;* Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-ftreet—
_ Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollars, where check books are kept lor register
ing and examining in these, the City o! Walhing
ton. No 11. and Paturfon Lotting, and informa
-1 tion where tickets may \>c had in mcft of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
' Union.
5 N. B. Theb*finefsof a Brokfb. inbuyingand
• felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities
- difco*nting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
r Lands, House*, &c. &c. will be duly attended to,
by WM. BLACKBURN.
November ij. 5
Notice.
Thrt£ or four Single Gentlemen,
be accommodated with
Genteel Boarding and Lodging,
On reafcnabU terms, by applying at No. 31,
Horth-ftrect, between fifth and Sixth-ftreet#.
February 13. eod^t
FOR SALE,
BY thi sußsCßiitßs, Nt'. 2i, Penn-llr««»,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
C nijmg tf
Baftas, of various-qualities and pi»ce«>
Coffaes Punjuro Cloths
Sanaht QtwtyMj 1
Humhums Charconci Dsrea
Blue Cloth Tamils
Chintz and Cftliiws Mulmali
Mlinoorlys Checks
Patna Hkfo.
Ginghams Malum! d».
Guzzenas Bundannoes
.Gutrahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcnes Choppa RomaU
Salgatchys ?poiy do.
Gillie Komati PcrfiitiJ of riripya col.
M«ck Piiflf9t'»
ioo ton» SUGAR
9 e, ; -Of>lh. PEPPER.
Wirings iff Francis. -
The Piece Goods
Of tiie Gauge, are now open 10 sale at that
{omrooa ou# Jtore the north Weft corner of
Marxet au~ Fourth-Uftpt*, .
Also—A tew Bales of Hkfs. efele*
£>nt patten s and best colours
February 8. <ltf
FOR SALE,
By WHARTON & LEWIS,
No 115 South Front Street*
A quantity of Tanner's Oil,
4th proof Jamaica Rum, "> entitled to
ill and %(\ proof Brandy, j drawback.
Madeiia Wui{,
Juniper Berries, &c. &e.
FeV. 9. eodtf
St, Croix Sugars.
26 hogsheads bell ST. tK oIX SUGAR,
ton SALE BY
JOHN NIXON & Co,
Feb. 9. fm&wif
Wanted,
An adive, cleanly, industrious woman to cook
and do the business us the kitchen, touch .a one
will be allowed good wages, and ne other need ap
ply.—Enquire of the Printer.
February 7 5
Ran away from the Subscriber,
On the 24th January lad,
A Black Woman, named Zelime.
SHE is ol a middling Czed ftaturc, thick lips,
marked with the small pox in the sac
carried off a bundle of lir.en with her. Whoever
takes her up and brings her to the fubferiber, at
No 181, Arch-street, corner of Fourth-flrcet,
(hall receive two Dollars reward
J. LAZELLES.
N. B. Whoever harbors f id Uirl alter this no
tice, (hall be prosecuted to the fiev rity of the law,
February to.
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands tgainft
the elfate of WILLIA M COMPTON, lat
of the city" of Philadelphia, dectafcd, are requjf
! ted to furniflvtheir accounts duly attcfted And
thofc who arc indebted to fiid ell :t , are earn^illy
solicited to make immeditfre payment, to either of
tilt fubferibers.
Isaac Cathrall, ~J
John Ha<warth, > Administrators,
Samuel IVilcox. J
January 37 ws4tv
NO T I C E.
A LI. purfdus indebted to the estate of Peter GiH
late*bf the Ditlriil of Soathwark, dec a fed,
are requefled t make immediate payment to either
of the Siibfcribrr*; and those who have any de
mands againll faidti\ate, are rcquefted to bring in
their accounts dnly attested, to
John Murphy, ~j
Peter Scravendyke, >
Thomas Farre/l, J tors '
January 16. *awaw vv
Lately Published,
And to befoUby WILLIAM YOUNG, cornea of
Second and Chefnut (1 rests,
(PrUe T,%tbi of a dollar J
Obfer vat ions on certain Documents
Con'ained in No. V and VI of
; " The History of the United States for
j the year 1796,"
In which the charcs ol spcculation against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the TreaSur*, it FUI LY
RFFUTED.
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.
This publication presents a concise ftatemtnt of
the base meact prailifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the charailerv cf thof«
persons who are considered as hostile their difor
, ganizing fchetnes Ic also contains the correspon
dence between Mr. Hamilton am! Meflrs. Monroe,
Muhlenburg and Venable, on the fubjeA of the
f documents aforefaid, and a series of letters from
. James Reynolds and his wife to Rftr Hamilton,
, proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt, thjt the
, cennoßion between him and Reynolds wa? the re
fultof a daring coul piracy on the part of the las
t ter and his aflociatet to extort money.
t J A difconpt oT one third from the retail
price will be made in favor of wholefMe pureha
fer*, for cash. Orders to be addrefTed to Mr.
'■ Yodno.
February f.
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
> For .DRY GOO DS.
r Forenoon —Edward Fox, No. 's6,
' } south Front-llrcet,
on Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 6c
Q South Front flreet.
f' Forenoon—John Connelly, Old Citr
- Auflion, No 73 south i'ront-ftreet.
> Afternoon—Williim Shannon, No.
e (_ iß.t High-ftrnet.
, N -"
i
'• FriJav I Fn . rcnOo! >—^Wul.am Shannon.
S Atttrnoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Bcr.fon.
[Volume XIII.lMs of the usirt: d state s.
Ksiut/Loritip
Fifth Congress of the United States :
AT THE SECOND SESSION,
Begun and held at the Cfty of Philadelphia,
in the State of Pennsylvania, on Mon
day, the thirteenth of November,
•ne thousand seven hundred
and niaety-feveu.
AN/ACT
Appropriating m tertain sum of money to defray
the expense of holding * treaty or treaties
tuith the Indians,
e T) E it enaOed by the Senate and
CC " ■ II House of Reft efentatives of the
United States of America, in Congress ajfem
bled, That a sum not exceeding twenty-five
thousand, eight hundred and eighty dollars,
be appropriated to defray the expense of such
treaty or treaties, as the President of the
United States (hall deem expedient to hold
with the Indians : Provided, nothing in
this aft contained (hall be construed to ad
mit an obligation on the part of the United
States to extinguifli, for the benefit of any
state or individual citizen, Indian claims to
any lands lying within the limits of the Uni
ted States, and that the compensation to be
allowed to any of the Commissioners ap
pointed, or who may be appointed for ne
gociating such treaty or treaties, (hall not
exceed, exclusive of travelling expenses, the
rate of eight dollars per day, during the
ttnje of aftual service of such commiflioner.
Sec. 3. And be it further enaQed, That
the sum aforefaid (hall be paid out of any
monies in theTreafury of the United States,
not otherwise appropriated.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Stealer of the House of Representatives
TH : JEFFERSON,
Vice President of the United States
and President of the Senate.
United States, 1
Approved, February 27,1798.3
JOHN ADAMS,
Preftdent of the United States.
AN ACT
For the Relief of William Alexander.
BE it ctiaßed by the Senate and House of
Representatives, of the United States of
America, in Congress assembled, That the Ac
counting Officers of the Treafiiry be, and
they are hereby authorised and direfted to
fettle the accounts of William Alexander,
for his services and expences, as ? surveyor
of aimy lands, appointed under' the ordi
iiailce of Congress of July the ninth, on?
thousand seven hundred and eighty eight ;
and that he be allowed such sum for his said
services and expenses, as shall be deemed
rtsfonable.'
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives. "
TH: JEFFERSON,
Vice President of the United States,
and President of the Senate.
United States, ")
Approved, February 27, 1798. J
JOHN ADAMS,
of the United States.
Deposited among the Rolls in the office of
the Department of State.
Timothy Pickering,
Secretary of State.
St. Andrews Society.
The quarterly meeting of the St. An
drews Society will be held on Wednesday
evening 28th instant at 7 o'clock, at Oellers
Hotel. William H. Tod, Sec'y.
Feb. 26. mticw
SALT.
3500 to 4000 bushels of large
grained SALT,
From St. Martin'» on hoard the Ihip Spy, at the
Still House whirf—for file by
Stephen Kirgfton,
46, Wilnut Street.
*AID SHI*
Will fail in a few days
ForSavmnahin Georgia For freight
■mßsSk or paffrge apply as above, or to the
Captain on board.
February «7 'e.djt
To Let,
About 10 acres of ground, with a good house,
par den, stables, 6cc. about 4 i-a miles from town
Immediate polTcfifion may He hid.
PETER BLIGHT.
February 17 §xot
For Sale,
The Indenture of a healthy, firong, and aSime
NEGRO GIRL,
Who has nearly fourteen years to ferTC.-—En
quire at No. 118, Market Street.
February
For Sale,
A good situation for a Country Scat,
FOR I V acres of land on the Old York Road,
wi-liin fight of Germantown and aliout five miles
from (he City, the whole being under goad fence,
and in excellent order a: pasture grouad.
For further information and terms, apply to
JofcN Elliott Ckesscv, at hi* office for tie
fair of Real Estates, Conveyancing, &c. No. 54,
High-Areet.
id mo. i6ih. jiwiw
~ TO LET,
And pofTeffinn given the ill April next,
TheHoufeNo. 258 High-street,
At present orwpied by P. Butler, Esq.
Applyt.
Edward Shoemaker,
Mo. 117, High street.
February 14 eoljw
Hyson and Young Hyson Tea..
A few chests of excellent qualify, for fs!e, cor
ntr of Second and Fine fcccii. D.c 16— t.it
Xl;e <lswtte.
PHILADELPHIA,
WF.DNESD.AY EVENING, FEBRUARY »«.
7 he following memorial was communicated to
both houses of Congress, on Friday lajl, by
the President of the United States :
TO THE
CONGRESS of the UNITED STATES.
The memorial of the commissioners appointed by
virtue of an aft of congress, intituled " An
an for ejlablifbing the temporary and perma
nent feest of the government of the United
States,"—refpeSfullyfbtweth,
THAT by virtue of the aft above men
tioned, and of an aft to amend the fame,
parted at Philadelphia, in 'the year one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one, the
President of the United States hath caused
to be surveyed, and by proper metes and
bounds, defined and limited, a diftrift of
territory ten miles square, on both fides of
the Potomak river, including the towns of
Alexandria, in Virginia, and Georgetown,
in Maryland, for the permanent feat of the
government of the United States ; that the
proprietors of upwards of four thousand a
cres of land, within the diftrift aforefaid,
have conveyed the fame to trustees, for a
Federal City, tobe laid out with such streets,
squares, and lots, as the President of the
United Stares should approve ; the streets,
squares and parcels to be the property of
the United States solely, and the lots to be
eqaally divided between the grantors and
the United States ; the lots which, on a
divifiun, should be assigned to the United
States, to be fold under the direftion of the
President, for the time being, and the pro
duce of the sales to be applied, in the firft
place, to the payment, in money, to the
original proprietors, for all that part of the
land of each proprietor which should be laid
off in lots, squares or parcels, and appro
priated to the use of the United States as
aforefaid, at the rate of twenty-five pounds,
Maryland currency, per acre, not account
ing streets any part thereof; and the re
maining produce of the said sales tobe paid
over to the President of the United States,
for the time being, for the purpose of erec
ting the public buildings, agreeably to the
direftions of the aft of congress aforefaid.
That in the month of April, one thousand
seven hundred and ninety-one, the late Pre
sident direfted a- city to he laid ont, includ
ing the four thousand acres of land afore
faid, agreeably to. a plan which he caused
to ".!)< cog'ravtd ancl pu'blifhed. That he.
caused the two principal buildings required
by the said aft of. congress (those for "the
accommodation of congrtfs and of the Pre
sident) ,sb be commenced on plans which he
deemed proper for the rpurpofes intended,"
and correfpondeot to the liberality of the
grants which he had obtained. That, un
der his direftion, "sales of lots were from
time to time made, in the manner judged
most conducive to the objefts of govern
ment, and of those by whom the lands had
been granted ; but no sale deserving notice
t9ok place till December, 1793, when the
commissioners not only with a view to the
ereftion of the Federal buildings, but to
ensure convenient accommodations to the
members of congress, and others who will
follow the government to their permanent
feat, entered into a contrast with gentlemen
then in high credit, for the sale of fix thou
sand lots, averaging five thousand two hun
dred and fixty-five square feet, ta be feleft
ed by them throughout the city, under cer
tain reftriftions and exceptions, at the low
rate, in money, of eighty dollars per lot,
payable in seven equal annual instalments
without interest, the firft payment to be
made on the firft day of May then ne*t en
suing ; and for the further confederation that
the purchasers should build one hundred
and forty brick dwelling houfee, two (lo
ries high, each house covering ijoo square
feet, before the year 1800, and that all sales
made by them, previous to the iftof Janu
ary, 1796, should be on condition of buil
ding one such house for every three lots
fold, within four years from the time of
the purchase.
Yo'ur memorialists further (hew, that not
withstanding the favorable profpefts which
this tranfaftion for a time afforded, the
scene soon changed. The gentlemen allu
ded to not only failed in the punftual pay
ment of their iaftalmenc which became due
in May, 1795, but early in that year dis
continued the buildings which they had com
menced under their contrast. In confe
qnence, many mechanics and others left the
city in distress and discontented. Under
these circumstances, the late President did
not think it prudent to fell so large a por
tion of the public property as would be ne
cessary to raise the sums req.iifite for carry
ing on the buildings ; believing, on grounds
fufficienrly solid to authorise the declaration
of his opinion in a message to congress, ac
companying the meuioiial of the commis
sioners hereafter mentioned, that this pro
perty would be amply fufficient for the pur
pose, could it be reserved till after the re
moval of the feat of government, or till it
could be fold in small parcelsto such as would
porchafe for their own use ; he therefore
referred the fubjeft to congress, and sub
mitted to their determination the measures
to be pursued. This reference was made
by transmitting to congress a memorial from
the commissioners, slating the affairs of the
Federal Seat in as clear a light as circum
fiances would then admit, ;nd suggesting
the propriety of aulhorifing a loan, bot
tomed on the city property, and guaranteed
by congress, in cafe that property should
prove deficient. The ir.eafure was adopted,
and a bill pafftd, by more than three-fourths
of the members present in the two houses
of congress, to guarantee a loan to the a
mount of 306,000 dollars. At this time
your memorialists had expe&ations which
appeared to be well founded, that the mo
ney wanted wwuld lie obtained on loan in
Holland.; they loft 110 time-in endeavoring
to realize those eSmeftatipns, but the dif
trefles to which that country soon became
fubjeft, and under which it continues to la
bor, have rendered their efforts vain. Your
memorialiftt have, not confined their efforts
to HolTiniTj UuTTt isTVe'edlefs to detail fruit
lefs attempts. The ooly fuccef3 they have
met-with, /is a loan of 200,000 dollars in
United States stock, bearing a present in
terest of fix per cent, at par, of the state of
MarylanJ, which loan was authorised by
afts of the legislature of that state, in 1796
and 1797, and fanftifned by the late and
present President.
Your memorialists have the pleasure to
think that by the application of these sums
with what they have been able to draw from
other sources, tbe buildings under their care
have made a rapid progress, which their se
mi.-annual retnrns, made under-the aft of
Congrcfii, will ffeew. The late President,
in pursuance of the poliny adopted by Con
gress, direfted sales to be made by fin git. lots
or at molt by squares, on moderate terms,
to those who would improve. Your memo
rialists, pursuing this mode, have made but,
few sales, owing to the cheek given to all
entcrprize bythe depredations committed on
our commerce, and to the forced sales of
the property of debtors, which your memo
rialists, however reluctantly, have been o
bligcd to make, in eonfequrnee of the gen
eral failure in payment, by thepurchafers of
lots. Your memorialists are of opinion,
that the prices at which the lots have been
fold, will fully juftify the policy pursued in
the mode of felling; at the fame time, the
sales being so few, evinces, that this mode
will not afford the means of carrying on the
buildings, neither can thty depend on the
timely eolleftion of debts. Their refotirces
being thus exhausted, they, think it their
duty to represent thefecircumftances toCon
grefs, to enable them to judge of the mea
furesto be pursued, Yonrnaetjiorialifts con
ceive, that to expose the public property to
auAioa, would be not only inconsistent with
the views of government manifefted by the
aft authorizing a loan under the guarantee
of the United States, but ineffeiSual in its
operation; for although they cancur in the
opinion before mentioned of the late Prefix
dent, with rtfpe& to the value of the pub
lic property, yet it is otyriqus that the im
mediate sale thereof cannot be relied on.—
Provision must be made for the payment of
two hundred thoufdnd dollars, borrowed of
the State of Maryland, with interest there
on, and also the payment of thirteen thou
sand and ninety-one dollars andfifty-one cents
yet due to the original proprietors, before
any money arising from such sales can be ap
plied toward carrying on the public build
ing. Yotjr memorialists therefore conceive
it will be true policy in Congress to advance
the nteeflary films for that purpose, and to
cause the public property to be fold only as
advantageous offers occur. Should Con
gress pursue a contrary policy, they will, no
doubt, cause the public property, to be im
mediately fold; the near approach of the
time appointed for the removal of the feat of
government, will not admit of delay ; they
will dispose of- the money arising from the
sale, agreeably te the direftion of the above
mentioned afts of Congress ; a valuable pro
perty will be funk; the money will be ex
pended; the buildings will remain unfinifh
ed. Can Congress refufeto finifh them.?
The two principal buildings, now far ad
vanced, are oq plans approved by the late
President. They were carried on under his
direction, without any interference 011 the
part of Congress, until the session which
commenced in December, one thousand se
ven hundred and ninety-five; a committee
of the House as Representatives was then
appointed, confiding of nine members, who
were inftrufted to enquire whether any and
[ what alterations ought to be made in the
plans of the said buildings, and who report
ed, that no alteration could with propriety
be made therein. Whereupon Congress
passed an aft, authorising the commiflioners
under the contreul of the President of the
United States, to borrow three hundred
thousand dollars, under the guarantee of
Congress, for the purpose of completing
those buildings, and others required by the
said firft mentioned aft, and placed the exe
cution of the business under their own im
mediate infpeftion, by enafting, "that the
commiflioners (hall femi-annuallv render to
the Secretary of the Treasury, a particular
account of the receipts and expenditures of
all monies entrusted to them; and also, the
progress and state of the business and funds
under their administration ; and that the said
Secretary lay the fame before Congress, at
every session after the reecipt thereof;"'
which aft has been duly complied with on
the part of the Commiflioners. Under cir
cumstances like these, your memorialists can
not fuffer themselves to doubt that Congress
will make good the deficiency, Ihould any
happen, after all the money which could be
obtained under the firft mentioned aft of
Congress (hall have been obtained and ex
pended, agreeably to the direftions of that
a:*. It was with » reference to the faith
of Congress for the final result, that each
donation was made. No one donation, no
one donor, was fufficient to ensure the objeft.
The Statesand individualcitizens who grant
ed their money, left the application of it to
the general government, in full confidence
that thegovernment would cithercaftfebuild
ings to be erefted correspondent with the
grants, or if they chose to build in a more
expensive style, that they would furnifh the
meant of completing them. The aggregate
of those grants was judged fufficient to com
pleat the buildings on the plant that have
been approved, and it Hill believed to be so
if the property yet remaining be managed
with oeconomy. With a reference to the
fame faith, immense fumt have been expend
ed in purchafet and improvement! in the ci
ty, as well by citizens and fnbjefts of fo
reign nations, at by thufe of the United
State. But your memorialist will not en
i large on ft point, which they flatter them
\ selves no man will dispute; the only quefti
• on 3 which they conceive can demand the at
: tention of Congress, will be, whether the
■ public property be worth preferring at the
■ expence of an advance of money fufficient
i to save it? And whether it will not be pru
dent, both in » political and cecoaomical
■ point ps yiew, to expedite the public build
i ings, by every meant in the power of gov
• ernment to pursue ?
f The property ceded by the original proprie
tor! oftlie'eity of Waftington, and yet remain-
I ing unfo'd. consists ot' one thousand seven hun-
I dred and nine building lots, in choice squares,
from Which the purchasers of fix thousand lets
went excluded in their feleZlion ; of threethou
, sand eight hundred and ninety feet tront on
( navigable water, from wh'ch those gentlemen
were likewise excluded ; and of three thousand
four husdred and twenty eight building lots, in
other parts of the city. Your memorialists
wilhing to ascertain the value of (hit property,
can devise no better principle on which to deter
mine it, than by taking the ave age pi ice of lots
foldftncethe paflage ot' the guarantee bill, viz
three hundred and fifty eight dsllars, and ap
plying that fuin to the lots in the choice fqmres
above mentioned, which will amount to fix hun
dred and eleven thousand eight hundred and
twenty-tv o dollars ; the average price of water
property fold since the lame period, being sis
teen and a half dollars per foot front, applied
to the remainder of that property, will aino >nt
to sixty thousand two hundred and ninety-five
dollars ; and tbe loweit price at which anyone
lot has ever been fold lingly, viz. one hundred
and fif'y-two dollars, applied to the la(l defcrip
tioa of lot!., will amount to fiyc hundred and
twenty-one th lufand and Gxty-lix dollars, mak
ing in the whole one million, one hundred and
ninety three thousand one hundred and feventy
three dollars.
What the rife will be on the removal of the
feat of government, the experiment alone can
determine.
U fide the property above mentioned, the
ftims arising from sales already made, and now
dur, or to become due at diflerent periods
previous to the second day of Alay, one thousand
eight hundred, amount to two hundred and fe
venty-eiglit thousand one hundred and ninety
dollirs, ten cents.
By the estimate of a mailer builder, made
with a view of undertaking the executive offi
ces, the expenlie will be ninety-fix thousand
seven hundred and ninety two dollars. By
the estimates of the fupeiiijtendants of rhe pub
lic buildings, the expense of finilhing the north
wing of the capitol, and the jprefidfnt's house,
will be ninety-eight thousand five hundred and
forty five dollars. Thejudiciary is not includ
ed, because no plan has yet been under cpnfide
ration : add one hundred thousand dollars for
that objefl, and the whole will be two hundred
and ninety fire thousand three hundred and
thirty-fevcn dollars. After making every de
duction from the supposed value of the proper
ty which reason can juftify, no doubt can remain
of its fufliciency, under proper management, to
reimburse any funis the government may ad
vance. That it will be cecomomical to expedite
the buildings, is evident. The expense of the
commiflioners' office, and various other depart
me'rns, will be nearly the fame, whatever works
may be going on, or whatever progress may
be made therein. Policy requires that the
buildings ihould be in such a state *t the time
appointed for the removal of the government,
as to leave no doubt of the practicability of tbe
measure : even a debate on the fubjeA would
occasion uneasy sensations, as wall in congress as
among the citizens at large ; but ihould con
gress defe: mine against the measure, on account
of the buildings not being in readiness, it would
require very weighty reasons to juftify such a de.
termination, in the eyes of men who have plac
ed in the hands of the general government, se
ven hundred and feventy-fmir thousand, two
hundred ninety-fix dollars, and fifty-eight cents,
for the purp fe of preparing the place for the
reception. Tke grants of money by Virginia
and Maryland, and the property given up by
individual eitizens, and already fold, amount to
that ftim, exclusive of the property yet remain
ing unfold, of the value of which we have en
deavoured to give some idea. Is it not just, af
ter such advance* by states and individuals, that
the objefls (hould be accomplilhed ? And is it
not wile to prevent the difcontentj which a fail
ure of this measure would produce.' To con
gress, there ere, we look to insure its accom
plishment ; the monies received on loan will
not, with the ftii&eft ceconomy, be fufficient for
the purpose j the obtaining further loans is un
certain, and neither new sales nor halantes due
from former sales, can, with any fafety be de
pended on as refourcee for ready money, with
out which all operations must eeafe. Should,
however, fufficient be made, ar.y ap
propriations granted by congress, will remain
untouched. It is submitted, with great defer
ence, whether it would not be proper, under ex
isting circumftanees,. to authorise the President
to draw, from time to time, in cafe of necessity,
such sums as may be requisite to complete the
public buildings. The sums wllich will be
wanted are tno inconsiderable to be felt at the
treasury ; yet, small as they are, they will, in
the present state of things, greatly forward an
important national objeifl.
Your memoria-lifts have laid before congress
every material fafl illustrative of the fubjei<t,4nd
with full confidence, refpeflfully submit the
premises to your confidtration.
GUSTAVUS SCOTT.
WILLIAM THORNTON.
ALEXANDER WHITE
BOSTON, February 17.
COMMUNICATIONS*
While the aftors on the Congress stage,
as Mr. Nicholat calls it, are performing, it
is prope? that they (hould not be led into a
mistake by believing that" we the people"
are as great fools as their addresses to the
gallery imply. We are not so little read
as to think with Mr. Baldwin, that our di
plomatic appointments are offiees to be cre
ated by the house of Representatives— a bo
dy which feemt to be fonder of destroy tig
than building. The patriots there manage :
a pickaxe better than a trowel. The offi
ces of Miaifters, Residents, charges des af
faires, &c. are derived from the laws of na
tions, not from municipal laws. Let Mr.
Baldwin think well of that.
Mr. Gallatin, and some other bold afler
ters fay that history proves, the source of
the ruin of Republics is to be traced to the
accumulation of the grants of power to the
Executive ; or very nearly to that effeft.
Now Mr. Gallatin it challenged, upon
his fcholarlhip, to Ihew any such testimony
from history. On the contrary Republics
have been loft because fueh men as he,
claiming to be patriots, have democratised
them to death; —they have vilified and wea
kened the Executive, until faftion became
strongest, and then right liberty and repub
licanism, heing the weaker, went by the
wall. This is exaftly the path our patriots
(con hi lion to them) are treading is.
Party divifiom in Congrefi threaten toJlop
the wheels as our government. It is for the
people to cure the evil by refefing to re-ele4t
the diforganizers.—That is the conftiti-tion
al phyfiefor thediftemperof theprefentday.
Inllead of fending the noisy democrats to
south America (as the Directory have done
with much letter men) we hope the fauthcra
electors will fend theirs home.
The Philosophers de Pau, Buffon aHd
Raynal have contended that the animals of
America are inferior to those of Europe in
refpeft to size and ferocity. But the learsed
of Philadelphia, justly desirous that our
country Ihould not appear belittled in the
eyes of foreigner*, have lately made the
pleating and honorable discovery that the
Lyon of America is as great a brute as any
in the world.
When Hannibal besieged ancient Rome,
the Senate, to envince their firmnefs, fold
the very gound he was encamped uptn.
Had the Romans flinched andfniveled like
our Congress Jacobins, they would have
loft their country. The democratic heroes,
so valiant to atrack and divide pur own go
vernment,, lift up supplicating tnnds( no
weapon of felf defence in them)and cry to
almighty France, spare us. When little
Venice criespeecavi, it must be for want of
strength but for America, it must be want
of fpitit. Our forefathers were game cocks
in their native island have their progeny
degenerated and become capons ?
C 0. N G R E 5 S.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Debate on a Repeal of the Stamp A3.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26^
The house having concurred in the vote
of the committee of the whole to disagree
to the report of tbe committee of ways
and means in their opinion as
pediency of repealing the law, and the sol- ',
lowing resolution being under considerati
on, viz.
" Resolved. that the committee of ways
and means be inftrufted to bring in 4 bill to
repeal the aft for laying a duty on stamped
vellum, parchment and paper."
Mr. Coit said, he had not vanity to
suppose that any thing which he could fay
could alter the vote which juftbeen ta-"
kea. He rather chose to call forth obser
vations from others. This aft had passed
last feflion by a conflderable majority ; and
he could not conceive any change that had'
taken place since that time, whieh should '
occasion this change in the opinion of the
house. There was no appearance in the
revenues of the country to authorize it.—v
It was true flight diflatisfaftions had appear-*
ed in some parts of the country, with this
law ; but these, he believed, were of little*
consequence. As he knew of no better
way of railing money than by a tax of this
kind, he was unwilling to part with it.
Mr. J. Williams said, when he gave his
vote for a stamp-tax, he did it to, avoid a di
rest tax ; but as he understood a land-tax
was still intended to be brought forward, he
ihould be for repealing the stamp-tax ; if he
did not, he believed they should have both •
a stamp-tax and a direst tax, which he by
no means withed.
Mr. Har ter wished the gentleman last
up had reserved his vote until'he saw that a
land-tax would be broHght forward. He had
not heard such a thing suggested this feflion
—it was generally believed that such a tat
would be unnecessary. The-.ftamp tax was
last feflion understood to be a substitute for
a land tax ; but if gentlemen now thought
a land tax would be preferable, they might
be afting confidently in voting for the pre
sent repeal. By a moderate degree of at
tention to the revenues of this country, it
would be seen, that with the aid of the pre
pofed duty on (lamps, every purpofeof gov
ernment would be answered, and thev would
be enabled to pay off the foreign debts, as
the instalments became due. But this could
not be done without the stamp-tax ; and if
this law were to be repealed, a land-tax must
be the consequence. Some gentlemen, he
knew, earnestly wilhed it; but those who
thought with him that a laud tax should on
ly be resorted to .in cafe of war—that it
ought to be a dernier rcfort, that it must
always be very unequal, be attended with
great expence and difficulty, would certain
ly not be afting confidently to vote for this
repeal. If this country were to be enga
ged in war, other refourcej would be ne
cessary ; but whijft at peace, he would
pledge himfelf that our present resources,
with the stamp-tax, would not only be equal
to all the eurrent expenccs of government,
but also equal to the exiinguifhment of ev
ery debt of the country, and to the build
ing a navy by degrees, as circumftancee
should require ; but if this law was dispen
sed with, which it was supposed would pro
duce at least 2j0',000 dollars a year, we
should not be able to accomplish these ob
jefts, our funds will be found infufficient,
and resort must be had either to an encreafe
of our import duties, or to a land-tax.—
The question was betwixt a land-tax and a
stamp duty ; and he was willing for the
people of the United States to deter
mine who studied their convenience the
most, they who favored a (lamp tax,
or they who favored a land-tax. He
knew there were certain gentlemen in that
house who fcemed to make a direst tax an
article of their creed, as the Quakers make
the abolition of slavery an article of theirs.
He was willing they should abide the conse
quences of such a system ; he preferred the
stamp-tax- If gentlemen were not prepa
red to vote upon this question, until they fee
a statement of the revenue, ofcourfe tsdt
cifian had better be deferred ; but if theyarc ready l« vote upai. it, ami to dilpefife v»ha
with a revenue of from a lo 400,000 d<iU had
lars a year, it was more than he wished to
do. For the present, he believed, the (lamp Icqi
aft might be dispensed with ; but in the year as t
1801, there would be an additional sum of ry t
1,200,000 dollar* a year wanted, to meet was
the instalments of our foreign debt, which fori
mud be provided for. tion
Mr. S. Smith was glad to find that the the
oertleman from S. Carolina is now convin- blig
eed that the revenue of the United States con
is fully competend to meet all its expences. said
He believed the gentleman was much mi- he
ftaken when he spoke of the (lamp-duties as woi
being likely to produce 400,000 dollars ; of 1
he believed ico.coo was the extent of what row
could be expefted from that source. The din
house had been frequently told that the in- on -
ternal duties on spirits would produce 400, pro
000 dollars, whereas the lad return he b«- pre
lieved, was 178,000. It was wrong thus tha
to deceive try unfounded estimations.— I The | boi
gentleman from S. Carolina, and others who j ry
Toted with him, had heretofore stated the to
impift duties at fire millions, bnt it now ho
appeared that those who had edimated them At
at upwards of fix millions, Were right in del
their calculation?. In 1796, they amounted ou
to nearly eight millions ; so that this differ- wh
cnce betwixt their calculation and the real In
amount wduld be fufficient to meet the de- thi
mauds which government would have to W
provide for in the year 1801. He had al- m<
ways been of opinion that the revenues of da
the United States would not decline, b«it m<
go on increasing ; experience hadjuflified de
this opinion. Since the year 1796 addition- fai
alimpoft duties had been laid, and it was so
not yet known how much these would pro- th
dnce i but fie believed it. would be fufficir so
ent to enable government to meet the in- wi
ftalments of foreign debt as they became ril
due ; and if so, it would certainly be desira
ble to de away a tax which was odious to p<
the people in general, and would be oppref- *1
five to a certain deferiptioa of pet-sons in h;
the United States. When the damp law f> j
was patted, to prevent its being generally ll
offenfive, the- duties had been confined prin- «
cipally to instruments used by merchants. Cl
Upon the single article of a bill of lading h<
50 cents duty was laid, though in England n
it ways only 6 pence.—Believing the pre
sent revenue to be fufficient for every pur- «*"
pose, he hoped the repeal would take place; P
indeed, the gentleman from S. Carolina be- d
licvedj with the stamp-tax, it would be d
efficient for every purpose, and equal to
the building of nayy-j-he moll allow, there- 0
fore, that it would be fufficient, if the navy h
was; left out the question. When the le- M
giflature determined upon building a navy, f<
he woulfl join that gentlemal in providing f
the mpans of effecting it; but, I'until that r
was done, h« saw no necelfity for providing t
for that -objeft. D
Mr. Chamflim said he (liould vote in fa- 0
your of the repeal ; but he should not do it 1
from any popular odium which might be h
attached to the name of Stamp-Tax^—this tax F
certainly bore no affinity to the Stamp, Tax
pfopcifed to be laid upon'tfcis country f
by Great Britain without our consent. It f
was not the Ux itfelf to which the people {
were at that time opposed, but tojtheprinci- )
pie upon which it was founded. In proof 1
of this, it Would be recollefted that a duty <
on tea met with the fame opposition. Mr. '
C. said he had not changed his opinion I
on this fttbjeft ;he voted against the bill '
jmpbfmg this tax in every stage of its '
pallage through that House. He did '
not know that a bill imposing a stamp duty 1
however framed (hould be opposed ; but the
present law would bear very hard upon the
merchants of the United States, who were
the insurers of our revenue. It was for this
reason, and not because it was a Stamp-Tax
that he was opposed to it. He found out
of sixteen or eighteen instruments' proposed
to be damped, thirteen of them particularly
applied to merchants, so that three-fourths
or four fifths of the whole duty to be col
lefted would be received from this source ;
and as he could not conceive that it was
the wilh of that house to oppress any par
ticular class of citizens, he trusted the law
would be repealed.
Mr. Craik did not rife to go into the me
rits of the Stamp aft, nor to charge the
gentleman from Rhode-Island with having
changed his opinion. Thefaft was, that a
a very considerable change had taken place
in the opinions of that house since lad fc(Ti
on ; nor had he heard of any thing which
could have induced the change, He fnppo
fed it arofc from a want of information.
The only good reason which he bad heard
for the repeal was, that our revenues were
fully equal to our expences. If this ground
could be supported, it would go to the re
jection of any tax whatever, and would be
a fufficient reason for repealing the law in
question; but before the house decided this
quediou, they ought to have better inform
ation before them than they had at present.
The committee of Ways and Means had not
yet reported a view of the revenue and the
expences to be met, he therefore, thought j
it would be proper to wait for this ftateraertt
for if it (hould turr. out that additional rev
enue is necessary, and that if the Stamp-A ft
be not carried into effeft, some other tax
mud be levied, it would alter the date of the
cafe. He, therefore, moved to podpone
the decision of this question until this day
three weeks, by which time the house would
have received all necessary information on
the fubjeft.
Mr. Tilunohast hoped the committee
of Ways and Means would be indrufted to
bring in a bill. If gentlemen wanted fur
ther information, they might in the mean
time obtain it, especially, as the bill, when
reported, might be made the order for a
dillant day.
Mr. Gallatin said, if the gentleman
who made the motion for podponement, had
had the information before him which was
before the house when the Stamp-aft pasTed,
he would not have made it; becauft it was
not in the power of the committee of Ways
and Means :o give any information beyond
what was befolre the house. If gentlemen i ®
had attended to the flatefltents' which had 1
been laid before thect. they must be as well *
acquainted with the situation of the revenue j- am
as the committee of way» and means. Eve- mer
ry thing beyond these statements, he said,
was conjefture, and every member might ~
form his own. Being precluded by the mo
tion for podponement, from entering into
the merits of the quedion, he (hould be o
bliged to confine his remarks to a narrow t
compafi. The Stamp-Aft, Mr. Gallatin '1
said, was patted for five years; and for what I
he alked, was its produce appropriated? It j
would be well reeollefted that the President
of the United States was authorized tobor- -
row 800,000 dollars to defray the extraor- ,
dinary expences of the measures agreed up
on during the lummer ftffion. The amount
produced by the Stamp-Aft was solely ap-
propriated to the replacing of this loan; but t£r
that loan had not been nnr could not be
borrowed, so that no provision was neceffa- an(
ry for the refunding of it, —With refpeft
to the current revenue, Mr. G. said, the
house had full information before them—
About 1,100,0*0 dollars of the principal
debt of the United States has been paid '
out of the current revenue, txclufively of
what has been paid but of the bank dock. £ cn
In December, 1797, the balance of cadi in t{j
the Treasury was about 1.900,000 dollars.
When the eommittee of ways and means
make th-ir report, they will make their
statement exaft, but this was as near the a- j
mount as was necessary to be ascertained, to
decide the present question. So that the q £
fame reason which inducedgentlemen to vote
for a damp aft lad year, might now induce
them to vote for its repeal. If the question
for podponement was loft, Mr. G. said, he an
would offer some observations upon the me- j.
rits of the main question. -j-
Mr. J. Williams hoped the motion for
1 podponement would be agreed to. He
thought it desirable that the house (hould j
1 have some information with refpeft to our ca
r situation with the powers of Europe, before
r this question was decided, as till that was
received, no one could edimate what expen-
ces might be necessary to be incurred. He
r hoped no extraordinary expences would be
i necessary; but it might be otherwise. If j.
. the fubjeft was podponed, other sources of
. revenue might come before them-. He ex-
■ pefted a report shortly on the fubjeft of
drawbacks. Last year the amount paid un- P
c der his head was 4,784,050 dollars: from
3 this, a handsome sum might be raised with-
. out having reconrfe to stamp-duties. He
y hoped the committee of ways and means
. would, in the mean time, report on the re
solution referred to them, relative to the
j system of direst taxes, and he trusted the j!
t report would be against it. If at the end of '
j three weeks this stamp-tax should appear un
neceflary, there cauld be no difference of e
opinion as to the propriety of a repeal of it. c
t If, however, more revenue was to be raised
e he would be in favour of a ftanap duty in '
x preference to a land tax.
x Mr. Sitgre aves was against the motion
y for podponement. The houfehadlatelyTjeen
t familiarized to calculations on the saving of
e expence, in order to prevent unnecessary de
bate. He thought the house was now runn- j
,f ing into a debate which could have no good
y snd.- It was well known that a proposition |
r _ originating in the fame quarter with this
(state of Rhode-Island) had been before the j
111 other branch of the Legislature, and had
ts been negatived by so large a majority as to
;<j make it unnecessary to spend much time '
• y in debating [the fubjeft in that house.
[ A coll to order.'] Mr. S. did not wi(h
1£ to fay any thing disorderly ; but there
re could be 110 doubt, from the decision
n', he had noticed, that the business would re
-3X ccive its coup de grace in the Senate.
ut ( Debate to be continued.)
ed
| TU»S»AY, FEBRUARY IJ.
hs Mr. H»rptr, fiom the comm'ttre of ways and j
jj. means, reported a bill to repeal the stamp a<3,
which was committer! for to-m»rr>w.
: ' Mr. Findley preftnted the petition of Alexan
as der Po«er, in behalf of several persons having
"* claims upon the United States. Referred to
iw the committee of cliims.
Mr. S. Smith presented the petition of E.
)e . Williams, p-ayiug a reimburfcment of certain
]. e expence* in urred in the ereftion of buildings
on the Ohio, for the better supplying of the
n S western army, or a grant of the land on which
' 8 thev are erefled. Referred to the committee
ice w ho has the fubjeA of North-weftem Teiritory
(li- lands under consideration.
ch Mr. D.Foster, from the committee of claims
)C . made an nnfivourable report on the petition of
Timothy Winters, an uld soldier, whe prayed
'"j for a penfi»>n—which was concurred in.
' rcl Mr. Gallatin moved that a report made by
:re the committee of claims 011 the petition of Alex
»d jnder Fowler, at a former feffi n, be referred to
re- a committee of the whole.—Agreed,
be Mr. D Foster moved that the report on the
• petition of Alex. Buchanan, and others, which
, • was »f the lame nature, might be referred to the
1S fame committee. —Agreed.
m " Vr. Livingfton moved a podponement »f the
nt - unfinilhed business, in order to go into 1 corn
got mittee of the whole on the bill for ereAing a
the light-house and placing buoys in fcveral places
r ht therein mentioned ; which being agreed to, the
house resolved itfelf into a committee accord
iftgly «n the said bill, and having filled the blank
ev ' intended to contain the sum approp iated with
13,1 {OdolUrs (viz 10,500 for the light-hcufe
tax o* Eaton's Neck, 1,500 for buoy, at New-York
the and "Newport, and 15" for Nantucket) rose,
one and the bill was ordered to be cngrofled foi a
J av third reading.
i'i A meffige was received from the President of
the United States, informing the honl'e that he
on had approved and signed an ait appropriating a
sum of money f"r holding a treaty with the ln
ttee dians and an adt for the relief of William Al
-Ito exasder.
f ur . Mr- LivingP.on again moved to postpone the
»nfinift «d business, for the purpose of complet
" i ing th# hill in addition to the for the relief
hen i of American feainen ; bn: this motion was ne
jr a | gatived 44 to 36'
j The house accordingly resolved itfelf into a
roan committee of the whole 011 the b:!l providing the
had means of foreign intercourfc, Mr. Dent in the
chair ; wheJPMr. Nicholas'.! amendment forcur-
T , tailing that eftablilhment br ing nndt r considers
' tion, Mr Havtns fpoki in favour of the amend
wa* roent. :r.d Mr. J Williams against it. The
r ays cotnmittee then r«fe. an,l had Ua\e to fit again,
ond A fkttch of their fpeechcs will be given.
Mr Livingfinn, from thecnr(i*i''tteeto wbcm "tt
ir*i referred -he amendments of the Senate to 1 <1 w
he bill for the relief ef refugees from Canada ~
iitd reported their rpinin>i on the
ame, which, together with the bill and >inerj>
nents, were committed for to-morrow.
Adjourned. v
'.'ft
dsasette* «I
1 "- ■ ■
PHILADELPHIA,
——— « t
WEDNESDAY EVENING, FEBRUART x 8
''"■ • " r
ExtraS of a letter to a member of
from his friend in Montgomery county, State. n °
of New Turk, dated 15M February 1798- raC
"A few daysago, captain Hudson's com- j re
pany of horse paraded and offeted them- , *' ,e
selves as volunteers to compose part of the
detachment of the 80,000 militia men—As- j h"
ter they were discharged, they ereCted a li- g e3
berty pole, with a red flag fixed on the top, U P (
and swore they would support the flamp far
aft." bo '
fur
ExtraS of a letter from a reputable feu/teman cor
at the city of St. Domingo Jan. 121798. " '
" Although I do not imagine that this
letter will find you at Philadelphia, yet I oa
fend it in order :hat it may fcrve as a guide tue
to you and yoar friends, in adopting the ne- *h«
ceffary precautions, in the difpatcli of your
vessel* for French ports. vt ~'
" A privateer of Guadaloupe has brought
into this port two veffeb belonging to Balti- :
more, loaded with provisions and dry goods ™ el
of which the captain of the privateer has ,n 5
demanded the confifcation, because theyhave
Englijh goods on board, and that their <lef- j
tination was to the French ports, Jacqmel j "
and Aux-Cayes, which by a decree of the I ® u
Executive Direftory, is exprtfsly forbidden. a ''
The commissary of the republic has accord- ou
ingly granted the condemnation, although "
this decree has not yet been carried into ef-
f«£l at any other place or oti any other oc- rlt
cafion. 1 P c
" I therefore take t'»e earliest opportuni
ty of informing you of these particulars, P (
and of poiating out the nectlfiry steps to S 1
be pursued in yeur (hipments.
"You must have a' certificate of the
French consul, by which it must appear that J*
the dry goods (hipped are not Englifti, in
all cases wktre the destination is for French 0
ports—But in cases where the vessels are w
bound to other than French ports, you may w
(Kip what yon please, as ia the instance of 11
the port of Spani(h St. Domingo
" I have seen a certificate of the French
Consul General Letombe, deAringjhat the
decree of the Executive Direoory, as it re!- q
pests the capture of neutral vessels, has re
ference only to such as are bound to ports,
formerly French, but now.occupied by their
enemies, and that those of any other des
cription may proceed where (hey please and {
with anv goods whatsoever. It isprefumed v
thai contraband by the Lav/ »f Nations is here y
ex sept ed."
f
- From an nlshorrence of tile lawless pro. r
• ceedings which have frequently taken place
on fuchoceafions,we were induced'to publjfh r
the information we received refpedling the t
late eleftion —We are happy to learn that
some persons who fuppofedthemfelves impli
cated in thofeaccounts consider such tranfac- -
\tion as derogatory to their chara&ers. Tho- !
I i mas Leiper denies that any of his dependants \
| paraded the ground with French cockades and '
_ | armed with bludgeons.
MR. FENNO,
A mistaken notion thatthelrifliareallan
tifederalifts, has arisen from a report only of
_ j the Right Boys, alias the United Iri/hmen ;
who wi(h to have it believed that they are
ItroHger than they are. This city and liber
ties contain not less than io.OoO Iri(hmen,
thus if all Israel's votfrs [4ooo] were of
that nation, there would be a good majority
remaining. But it is a faft well established
' that many French, and many Americans,
- particularly those of desperate fortuies, are
g also antifederal; this ought to be made
0 known for the honor of the friends to order
among the Irish.
n ' A Federal Republican Irishman.
8 _
e From Porcupine's Gaxette of yrflerday.
Bache's paper of this morning contains
c what he intends as a juftification of Israel's
party. Mr. Fcnno, it seems, took notiee of
IS the raw-head and bloody-bones, that the If
>f raelites sent gallopping about the Northern
d Liberties to scare the people from turning
out for Morgan. It was a fans-culotte 011
V horse-back, with this label on his cap, ' If
rael or Death.' Mr. Fchmo described this
monster as armed with a sword, whereas, it
ic appears (if Bache can be believed) to have
h beea a trumpet, which Surgo calls it an em
ie blem of peace. It is the firft time I ever
heard a trumpet called an emblem of peace ;
" and it is molt motiftroufly ridiculous that
[ such an emblem should, at any time be borne
L . s by a half famifhed Carmagnole, armed cap
ita-pie.
d- But, it was not this filly apology of Young
'k Lightening Rod, that led me to take no-
tice of the paragraph which contains it.
k There is something that follows far more
worthy of attention.
* " The Federalifls pretend to triumph in
f " this vidlory : but their hearts are in
1 e " mourning, while their countenances affedt
a "joy. The strength and energy of the de
a. '< mocratic party is a forrowfi)l memento to
il- '' them of their decaying power ; and I
" have no doubt, they would rather hate
he " permitted Israel to retain his feat, than to
:t *. " have been the means of manifefting to the
|e _ " world tnat there existed in the metropo
lis of the United States and its immedi
a " a'.e neighborhood, between four and five
he " thousand democratic republicans ; and that
he "in th« city and county of Philadelphia,
" r * " they have the preponderance. "Will Mr.
j" " Adams fav hereaftei, and will his crea
" tures echo the weak sentiment, that we
" 2re not a divided people ? The division is
I " fir from confclatory to the Britilh sac
tlon : for tVify weTl Know, tliat thouglt
wealth may be on their fide, nerve and
fortitude those revolutionary virtues, are on
the fide of the friends of liberty. Be of i
good cheer ye democratic republicans the
vi&ory of your opponent! is a virtual de
feat. Tou know yourflrength, and let the
British faction beware how they rouse the
Lion by endeavoring to ensnare him. Pe
There ii an ultimate point, /'/ is the point
of ruin, let them ft«p fliort before it be 1
too late. c v ,
«« CASSTUS." ™
This is speaking pretty plain ! But, it is
> more than an explicit avowal of the cha
fer, and the views, of the hungry fcoun
els, who Ire lying in watch to dart on 0n
icir prey. Bache has let this efcapchim T1
ian unguarded moment, in the fullnefs of '
is hatred,lin his unquenchable thirftforven- J
tance ; and I pray the federalifls not to look
pon it as a vain boast. The wrecch is in
irneft, and he knows what he i» talking a
out. I have not the least doubt but mea- 14.
ires are already planned by him and his
snfederates, for arriving at what he Calls
the point of ruin and, we may depend, f)r
-iat if they should find a favourable occafi
n for a display of their " revolutionary vir- (,le
tei," nothing will save our throats from 1
Sieir bloody coutcaux. A
But, I trust, that this oecafion will n<- 2
er present itfclf. Itruft, the men ofworth, 11
he friends of the government, are, or will
e, so completely roused, as to leave the j
efariousconfpirators, with the guilty-look- j-j
ng CaJJius at their head, not the least hope 45
if success. 1
They talk of thefr " nerve" and their 3
• revolutionary virtue" !—I have no doubt
>ut they would plunder the city and murder
ill the proprietors, if they could; but it is _
>ut of their power. They have not the
' nerve" ; or at least, they Have it only in A
:heir tongues. Their wishes were good for
•ioting at the eledtion ; but they wanted
power, and they wanted courage.—You „
lave seen a cur sally /orth, and pursue the \
peaceable passenger with startled bridles and ""
gnashing teeth 4 but, no sooner has the l»t- j.®
tcr turned and (hook his cudgel, than you g,
have seen the base mongrel tack about, and, bi
with hit tail between his legs, fcnlk to his '
kennel.—Just such is the uniform conduft A
of the fanf-culottes, in every part of the
world. They are cruel and cowardly: bold
when they have no opponent, and baftly ti
mid when the have; %
C 3* " Sic Transit"—To-morrow.
J- a
GAZETTE MARINE LI Si. c
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
Arrived, the Revenue Cutter, Captain
Roach, who informs that no inward bound
vessels were at Reedy island, or in the river j f
yrfterday afternoon. 1
The William Pepp, Jofiah, and abo&t 30 i
fail of veffelt, ltfttk* island early yeftrtday i
morning l ' ; .!
The Molly, Hodge, and several others, 1
remained at the island last evening—
to have gone to sea since.
New-Tori, February 26.
■ ARRIV ED; DAYS.
Ship Hope, Edjiupn, Hamburgh 84
Brig Abigail, Chaee, Sivannah. »4
Sclir Concord, Darnel!, do. 16
Fanny, Norton, Lanfeveau, 14
St- Patrick, Curracoa 33
Capt. Byrne arrived here on Saturday
24 days from Curracoa, left there
Brig Ami, Jones of N.Y. to fail in 2 4ays.
Rebeeca,Smith,of do. tofail in iodays.
George, Barclay, of Baltimore, tofail
in 2 days for Hifpauiola, and
A fchr. Bunker, of and for Baltimore,
to fail in 6 days.
Spoke on the 19th Feb. lat. 33, 00, long. :
71, 3D. (loop Good Intent, Badcock, from I
Rhode Island to Havanna.
Feb. 22, lat. 38, 00. long. 74, 20. spoke
brig Columbia, Grolier, from Jamaica to
Boilon.
Arrived at Sandy Hook, on Saturday,
brig Abigail, Ch3ce, 20 days from Charles
ton. Brig Eliza, Almy, 23 days from Pe
tit Guave—fhip Mary, Harding, of Bever
ly, 6 months from Calcutta.
The (hip John, of Boston, from India,
was alf» lying at the Hook on Saturday.
The (hip Love, which failed from Nantz
foi*New-York, on the Bth or 9thofJan.
put into St. Bartholomews indiltrefs, with
17 passengers. This comes in a letter from
the Captain, who mentions the loss of a
mad and her railing.
BOSTON, Feb. 20.
We have received a letter from Salem, ac
: quainting us with the arrival at Marblehead
■ from Bilbao. It seems that the feaft of the
" exclufifs" iu Paris, was on the 26th Dec.
r 7'he Danifli or Swedilh minister was absent,
- as well as the American envoys. The for
. mer however from accident. A vessel from
: ' Marblehead for Bilbao, touched at Ctrunna
! and took in four passengers, after failing, a
-1 ' gain was captured by a French cruizrr be
j cause thele passengers were not included in
t the roll d'equipage.
j JDf the MURDER at CAPE COD.
I We are credibly assured, that the late cu
: : rious story from Cape Cod, is untrne in its
> inolt material parts. A leport reached Pro
e . vincetßwn, of much the fame tenor with the
-j on publilhed here. A very suspicious per
- ! son was lurking about the town—and, (cre
e diting the report) the people thought bed
t to secure him, which was accordingly done.
1, Hi» conduft after being arrested increased
. i the belief of the story and of his guilt; and
1-i lie was kept in duress several days. At
C i length fatisfa6kory intelligence being receiv
s • ed, that no such frightful affair had happen
! Ed, as was told, he was discharged.
tr« s* W-. I •: ,;r -r.. •
NEW-THEATRE. "
On WEDNESDAY; £ vetoing, February
Willh* Vccfcnted the Comedy of
THE JEW.
With the Comic OrciA of
Peeping Tom of Coventry.
Pe \> r,g Tom, (with the foEg of the Little P*f»
ihinjr Rulh Lipht) Mr. Harwoed) (being hit
fitft appearance in that eharafler )
fT The doors will be opened at half pift
five, and the performance begin at half past fix
prccifely.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
At Cbcfnut-flreet Wharf,
On Monddy, the sth March next, at li e'cloelf.
The following Articles, fired frotn the wreck
of the (hip John, znd fold for th» benefit of
the concerned : ' •
II Boltt rf Canvafi I Main Top Sail
I Fore Sail t Main Top Oal. Sail
1 l'ore Top Sail I la pe new Cable
1 Jil» S hbJ». of Pork
144 Sheets of.Coppcr Half a bbl. Beef
i Sliip ticil A few bbls. Flour, Peal
at.d Bread
A quantity of Chain Bolts, Rings, and sun
dry Iron, with a large aflartment of all kiads of
Rigging, Blocks, Hooks and Eyes and Thim«
hies, &c. *
1 fthall Copper Boilers jc Water Cifki
4 Compares 7 Olafs Windows
2 Lam horns I Towlinc
tl Spars I Ha*fcr ' "
i Iron Cambou r e A quantity old Junk
I hbl. Tar 1 large A h el
I hbl Copper Nails 1 small * nchor
31 In xes Window Glafi 3oM Cables
45 -raws o! Tumblers 1 che'l w th Medic.
1 brass Move 1 hh'». Pork
i Tables 3 Cluirs
And sundry oh' 1 artfctei.
William' Shannon £s° Co. Auft.
Feb. «8- dt^m
To be fold at Vendue,
At the Coffee House, at 7 o'clock in the evesing,
on the j.'h ®f. "arch next,
r-ju, Ttc Hull >f the
Ship JOHN,
AS (he lies, and three Anchors
«i3WK» '7 in g under the bow, cut away af
ter flie bilged, .itrartded at he mouth of Cohan*
fee creek. She was built in Newhnryporc about
five years ago, was coppered Ullfummer in Ham
burg, -nd measures about 500 tons.
also at thj same time,
Apart of the Cargo whith unot yet get out her, fay,
»9 tonsof Iroif
4 boxes of Iheot Copper
70 boxes of window and hollow Glass
All for the ben fit of the c nctrned.
William Shannon, Auctioneer.
February at <Jt3M
At a Meeting of the President
and Managers of the Delaware and Scuvylkill
"Canal Company, Febru ry 17th, 1798,
StftlviJ, I'hat ten dollars on each (hare of Stock
be railed for ; and that the Treasures
give psbhc notice thereof agrecabU
to law.
1 \ Skfrafffrom tit Mimmta. •
[ GEORGE WORRALL, Setrttary.
AGREEABLE to a resolution of th» PreGdtnt
and Managers of the Drfnvare and Scbi/yUitl Canal
Cmfany, the Stockholders are hereby required to
> make a payment of ten dollars on each of theif
f refpeiSive (hares on or before the ill of pril'.nett,
\o ' WM.' GOVETT, Trcafurtr.
. j i Februafy it. lawtA
1 The Co'mmiflioners
carrying into nflcA th«*TWEN'I Y FIRST
X Art 'tie of the r'l reaty of Friendship, .Limits,and
Navigation, bitween Hjs Catholic Majesty and the
!. Un t dStatC9of America, hereby give i iiormation
to all Persons therein concern®J—. hat in order
to terminate all differences, on account of tfie loflk
; cs sustained by the c of the United States, in
conlcquence of th ir Veffe $ nd having
been taken by the Su'je<ft«* of HiV-Ca hoiicMajef*
ty, during the lare war between Spain and France,
y that they *r ready to receive (at their Office, be
tween th«-h'ovrs of ten and one o'clock. daily) ali
complains and app ic2tions authorized by the faicf
3 * Article, dur/ng iicht een months, from the day
>. of the date herco!, and that 'hey have*p s ower' to
il eiar ine allfuch person? at c«me before them, on
oath or affirmation, touching the com laints in
question, and also to receive in evidence, all writ
' ten testimony, authenticated in such manner as
they (hall thiiik proper to require or admit,
r. I By Ordtr *f the CommiJff r ert,
n | PETER LOHRA, Secretary,
Comw'.JJioners Office, No. lO9', Mulberry
e Jlrtst, May I Jtb t 1797*
Feb. 18, '98 —'im
>0 • t Y% o fe Printers in the fever nl States 11 io fukiijv
ed the above advertisement laji Spring, are requeued t»
re-pubhjb it ene month t and fend their uccomitt to P. L\
New-Torky February, 1798.
PROPOSALS**GEORGEFORMAN f
e-
FOR PR INTI *0 BY SUBSCRIPTION,
r ' A New and Valuable Work, which has been cx«
tantonly iix months—entitled
a, TJROOFSof aCONSPIRACYagainft
, i all the Religions and Governments of EU«-
tz ROPE, carried on in the fccret meetings of Free
n Mafoot, Illuminati, and Reading Societies. Col*
, leded from authorities
:h By JOHN ROBISON, a. m.
Frofejfor us Natural Pbil.fopby, and Secretary t$ tis
Royal Sueiety of bdinbnrgh.
Nam tua res agiturparies cum proximus arid.
THIS work will be put to prefsas soon as
400 fuifcrihers are obtained, and no money requir
ed until the work is completed.—lc (hall be print*
ed with an elegant new type, and on paper of su
perior quality, which will cosnprife about 400
. pages neat o£lavo, han ifomely bound and lettered
ae * —the price will be owe dollar and fifty cents,
be Tkofe who procure 12 fubferibers, and become
•C. accountable, (hall have a 13th gratis—and the u*
It fual allowance to booksellers.
>r I he above woik comes from the pen of J,
Rohifon, of Kdinhorough, a gentleman in high
,m eft matioii n the literary world —the fads therein
fta recorded are well fui flantiate , an.l tlicreafoning
a- and argiimen s thence deduced, while they disco*
)C . Ver the fcund judgment and ptnerration of the
j n writer, are calculated to an\uie as well a* to in*
ftru&. A fccue of vil'ainy is developed by the
aurhor fr.fficient to appal the ftouteil heart.—l he
dangtr to he appr hended from fccret focietia* if
clearly pointed &ut ; the'degeneracy of human na
ture awfully illuftraffd, and the hazard of every
' u " deviation ram the Araiuht path of religion and
its of virr.ue, inconrefhbly proved both to the politi*
ro- tian and the christian by ilubborn and incontro
vertable f As.
tit Svbfcriptions taken in by G. Formal!, No 46,
Cr tWitlam ftretty oppc/ile the Pofl-Cffice % and by tie refpti
r<"" ive lookfeel'crs in Nen* Yt,rL and r'iiladtlpbia.
•e(i Febiuarr 28.
W A Gardener wanted,
ind TO move to the DiOriA of Columbia, one who
underftands bufineC. well, to v.honi gererout
encouragement will be eifen. a p plication nma
IV " be mide inuneiuattly, at No. ?, South Fourth*
«n- itreet. t« CZOKGS WsiI.KER.
Feb. i?. *3»JUST RECEIVED,
AND POX lAU, AT
W. Young's Book-store, r"
Corner el Chcfaitt and Second ftre«ts, P
( Prim SO Cents)
Caafes «|iii fe font oppofee* aux f)]
Prtfiti du ccmnKrce, entro I.A FKANCEet lea
1I ATS-UNIS de L'AMERIQUE.
Aver lc« Moy«» de
Kt la comparaifon dc la Dcttc Nationalc r p "
de TAnglctcrre, dc la France, and des f<
KTATS-UNIS. f!
In fix Lettrea, addrdKe* a Monsieur I'Mar- o
quis be i-a Fayitte. Trad nit fur le Ma- "
nufcrit Anglais du Colonel SWAN, ancien *
Membre de la Lfgiflature de la IMpubliquc 0
du MaffachufTct. <j
Le Commirct ell la portion U plus insportante des ®
(Richcffes Nationales. •
LeTrident de Neptune, eft le fceptredu Monde. I
L'imiiki, *
Or causes that kave been opposed to the h
PROGRESS of I'OMMERCE botween p
MJUCE and >k, UNITED STATES of AMERICA. 6
With the meant of accelerating it;
And » comparison of the National Debts
of England, France, and America.
Iu Six letters, direfted to the Marquis
»l LA FATITT*. k
Traijflated (into French from the original Eng ®
l.fli Manufcri.t of Col. Swan, formerly a Mem-
fcer of the Lejiiatore of Massachusetts. r
Comfnerce i» the most important portion of the #
Wealth of Nations. ,
-i he Trident of Neptune i* the Sceptre of t
the w*rM. Lamiaa.
AT a juncture when the question of (
a Ccmmtrtial Treaty witb Franci ma| soon i
become an objadt of difcuGSon, a work of this kind
bccomea extremely ufelul to those eiti*en« of the
United Statel, who may be defuoat to enahle them
fetves to view this fubjea, underits various af
pefis; and they will have the fatisfadion to be
furnifted with the noceffary data, to judge of the
vfefulnefs us this tranfaflion.
This work is principally diftinguilhed by the I
rlchnefnof the okfervation*, the pcrfpiauity of the I
Ucas, and the modesty of the theory which it i
contains. ' t Pars, a man of wit obftrved, that i
this work was like a rich farmer's barn.hoaped up
to the very roof with ufelul produce- It is addref- !
fad to the unfortunate La Favbttk, in letters, !
which fugitive the author who could only i
devote a few war ks to this occupation, was obliged i
to adopt. Although <ircumtianc<is are ill many I
refpe&s different at the prefcnt day, from what i
ah&y were in the year 17 when these letters
were written, yet iAnay be jultly laid, that to ma
ny abfelute and permanent data dill remain, th*
the judicious reader will not appreciate the work
lesson that account ; on the contrary, as many of
the alterations, which have been made, are the ra
fale of the author's remarks, it will ferva to con
vince him that in ail tranfaetiotii, between free
-cations, every thing maybe expefted from the ef
forts of truth and jus.ice.
LETTER I.
General view of tha obstacles,"created in France,
to pievent the extenGon el commerce, with the
United Stat's—Obfervations made in a tour, takoa
for that express purpofs, uponforne French manu
factures (3 precious fragment thi*). Examination
and refutation of the prejudices existing in France,
against the quality of certain produAions of the
United States, and againlt the advantages of their
importation—Uetnonftrauon of tha bad policy of
laying i'# ies on their importation, principally on
pmviGona in general, and on fait provisions, and
fifli in pjtkalar —Confident ions on the regulations
•f the French cu»:um-houles.
LETTER 11.
Obflaclca to the extension of trade with Fran-e,
proceeding from circumftajaces and individuals m
the United States—Proofs 'tha' these obstacles are
only temporary and will be removed (they have
been removed) by time and thewifdomof govern
ment—Millory of the influence of the American
paper money—lmportant j rinciplos and abftraft
•onOderatiens on money and circulation—Causes
•f the ftagnatien of American trade, after the
pcace«-Critical examination of French im
ported intd America, and axtraordinary conduA
of the French merchants—Effefls of good com
mercial laws; and patriotic wilhes on trhis fubje&—
Obtvrvations on money, weights and measures.
. LETTER 111.
Edayin the foi m of a taUeku, to appraise the ira
-001 tations into the United States from France and Frif
land t.n ted. The author examines at each article,
whethei it can be better iurnilhed from France or
England—lt is principally on this lubjeft (which
would haveaftonilhfd a mere thcorift) that the author
appeara to evince great commercial experience. These
Viu 1 of taUtahf. uuluckily as difficult to obtain as
they aia much to be defiled, are the only lure guides
the datefman can take for lh< policy of treaiics. de
prived ot which he it continually deceiving or decei
ved. We cinr.ot too much admire the apparent ex
aftnefs of colonel Swan's calculations | and although
tbe propbefiet of Lord Sheffield have already been
contradiQed by experience, and bv fevi rat able pens,
yet it is curious to fee the author of the preleni work,
dispute wiih him the only grout d on which he has
not been hiilicrto attacked, by proving that France,
under the required condition, will be better able
than Grctt Britain to supply us with (everal articles,
whie'tthe En, lifh authoi aliota exelufively forev
er to tbe latter; the author'a partiality on (it he
has any) doc* n»t appcir to have at any ttme created
a partiality of judgment. The rcfult of thi* calculation
ia that in >7o9* that 4a to fay, at a period when arta
. aod manufactures did not prefcnt in France the v«ft
meant and probability of extension whio they now
poir-fs. lhat even in 1789* >t was pretumablr, that
France would not only nave the meihs '<> supply one
half of any given auantiry of the prod unions of France
and nglsnd united, butaJfoto enter into competition
with Gicat Britain tor the remainder, in proportion
to the wiidom of her government, and the industry
of her inhabiunta.
LETTER IV.
Calculation of tie exportation* of the United Statej,
and particular examination of tbeir fuitablenefa to
France ; thi« ia one reason why, notwithftauding the
«xcellnt work of Mr. Tench Coxe, Mr. Swan's ta
bleau ia by no meana lupetfluoos . the principle ot the
advantages which would rcfult 10 France trorn the
importation 'A pr»vi(iom and raw matciiaia, ia every
where applied ; and it is upon thia argument, that
the author rftabliihca his demands to the French go
vernment, for tbe limited admtflion of tbe produc
tions ot his country into France.
LETTfcR V.
Tableau, of the debt of the United "Staiea at that
time—Opinions of the author on the finances, on the
cffe£kof national debt, on circulation, &c. as more
amply detailed in hia National /Arithmetic printed at
Boilon in the year 1786 ; whole calculated to
ilrcngthcn in France, thepubl c and private credit
of the United Statea —theMppy condition of Ameru
ca, and the miseries arising from the public debt in
Europe, are contiafted in the ablest manner, and un
der the naoft linking lelatinns, by very cu ious cal
culations—Obietvations on ihe wisdom and economy
which preside over the public expenses in MaflTachu
fctrs. In tnia place the patfiotifm of the author ap
pears, with all the elevation which a juil national
pride inlpires. The ancient governments ot Europe,
lays he, will le»rn from us the art of econotnv in
recompcniing the (et\ice> which th- country receives*'
ui it uitt JefetMy that men are cUjen for places %
and ft>i places far men. Thia letter conciudra with a
genera] view ot the public propert v, depohted in the
pands of the government of the United States.
LETTER VI
General examination of the defe&s of the commer
cial policy of Fiance with refpett :o the United S«ates;
many of these observations have produced the eif<6)t
for which they»we re intended, others fiiil remain,
pointingou* thr reforms to b« made in future, as a
gOwKi tLari ntiks the ihoaU aod locks, Tbe au h?
nrludrs Viis "wo-k. by fW'nj his atWnlion on his
•untry, and the grest men ho have rerdered it il-
Itrious; and we laKe a plealure in quoting what he
ys of the present chief ol our government. To ,
sife a man when he nrrcifes a dillinguifbed em *
oyment, is common, and may be taken for flattery ;
lit whilst he is in private life, it is the homage of f
iceiity. e
Note, page 316 of the work, t
* Lea haliitans des fctati-unia, fuivant daits teur
loix le hien public, 4 excites par un principe de
connoaHance, choiGrent M. John Adams pour vice- c
resident du nouveiu congres. Se« efforts, pour pre-
rver le peuple des intrignes formees par le gouv- r
uement Anglais contre fa liberie, le rendirent tres-
ifpeA a ceux q'ii etoieot en pouvoir- Le peuple,
>nvaincu de son merite, le choifk pour un de fes .
iprefentans dans le premier eongre*. De ce nombra
:oit aufli M. Samuel Adams, pat riot e audi intrepide, j
u'infatigable. La revolution Americaiae doit beau- 1
jup ala perseverance de fe* travaux, it a fes talens c
ilbngea. Ceux que M. John Adams a developpes a
an*le traite de paix, qui *'eft fait a Paris en 1783,
nt prouve au'il etoit miniftre auoi habile que grand t
olitique. It dans son ouvrage fur la defeole de la (
jnftitution Americaine, il a muntae toutes le» ean- ,
oiffances qui foiment les vrais jurifconfultes & lea .
ommcs de I'-i; connoiffances neeedaires, pour rem- ]
lir honorablement les fonftions de president du fenat (
es Etats-unia. _
jro~TICE. I
A ManufaSnry of yellow and Jtlft ware, !
Such aa never was in this Country before, has been
een lately ended at Tivoli, Red Hook Landing,
nihe East Bank of Hodfbn's River, ftaie of New
'nrk, where any article of varioos forts and shapes
say be executed, a* well at earthern floves upon a 1
ew eonftruftion, that favea thrfe fcurtl.s of the fuel I
oromonly used it. cast iron floves or open chymmes; 1
My are bolides very wholefonx* and orcamental, by
j. mouchet, :
Wanted a fltillful hand to attend to the baking and
laiing part of the said wate. Generoua appoint. '
nent* will be given. Apply >s above, or to
• DAVID BROOKS, Esq.
No •71 South sth Street.
reb. 19. tod 4 ,y ;
To Be Sold,
A GREEABLY totha last will and teflament of
C\ Willi ast Havsuau, dccealed, and poffef
ion given immediately, a valuable property in Arch
Ireet, between Third asd Fourth ft.eets, confift
ngof th* koufe, No. XO7, with the lot ofl which
t is erefled, a ftabl*, aad other improremcnta. —
rhe house is »o feet front, and contains ten good
ipartmonts. The lot is of the fame breadth as the
louse and 109 feet deep, whh a well of water an.l
l very capacious walled cittern, both with pumps
n goop repair. The stable stand* on the rear of
he lot aad will accommodate four hor£:s and a car
riage. Thi* property enjoys the perpetual privilege
»f a »6feet court and an alley, 8 feet wiiie,extetid
ng to Cherry Street. It; t»ntral poQtien and the
ldvmtages it pofieiTe* with refpeA to free ventila
tion, readers it well worthy the attention of any
person wiihing 10 posses* an eligible property ia Phi
ladelphia,
For further particulars enqiuaee at No H, Wne
S^eet —of
ReiERT HarsMAu,
or > AAing Exoetar*.
Fkanvis Bowts Sayki, j
January » $
NOTICE.
ALL person* who kave any demand* aga'mft
Aa eftite as Willam Fliewtooo, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are to exhibit their arcount*,
properly attested ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are deGred to make immediate
payment, to
No. Third-street. } Mmi »'J tr ' r
January 4 . dtf
To be fold,
AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acres aad 40 pcrcbes, with a neat two
story brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, kt. situate on the Irilh trad lane, in the
townlhip of Moyamenfing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, fee taste and
elegance, stand unrivalled.
December I. dtf
New-Tort, January 34, 1798J
PROPOSALS
By Arondt Van Hook,
Proprietor of the Reading Room ;
Par Publishing by Subscription,
An Appeal to Impartial Posterity,
By Madams Roland ;
Wife of the Minister of the Interior in France.
CONDITIONS.
i These scarce and very valuable Historical Me
! moirs, (which ran through two London adi
' t'ons in a few months,) will be ccmprifed ia 2
I vols, oflavo, of 400 pages.each.
They will be printed on fine paper and a new
' type, and delivered to Subscribers, neatly bound
and lettered, at 1 dollar and 50 cents per vol-
Ome—one third of the Subscription money to be
paid on delivery of the firft volume—the re
. maitidef when the work is cosnpleat.
1 To Printer*, Booksellers, and others, who
acquire Subscriptions, the usual allowance will
1 be made.
Subscription* are taken at the Reading-
Room, No. 149, Water street —the Printing-
Offiee, 149, Pearl-street—and at the different
BookUorei in New-York-- Also, by William
; Young, corner f Second and Chefnut street, and
: the Editor of the Gazette of the United States,
Philadelphia.
A* soon a* a fufficieat number of Subscribers
are obtained, the work will be put to press, aad
compleated with the ntinoft dispatch.
Feb. to. eodam
PROPOSALS,
FOR PRINTING ST Sl/BSCJtIPTfOI\
& NXW AND INTiaESTINC WORK, EMTITIID,
A TREATISE
ON THE POLICE OF LONDON,
Containing a detail of the various crimes aad snif
doncanors, by which public and private proper
ty, are, at present, injured and endangered :
And suggesting remedies for their prevention.
BT A MACISTRATSf
ASiag for the counties of Middlcfex, Surry, Kent,
aud EfTex ; for the city and liberty of Wenmin
ftcr j and for the liberty of the Tower of Lon
don.
CONDITIONS.
This work will be printed in a large o&avo, on
an excellent EngtiOi paper—lt will be delivered to
fubferibers, bound in board*, at the moderate price
t of Ohc DaiUr and a half; although the laH London
edition, on inferior paper and measly bourn 1 , in
I now fold at 'wo dollars and a half. To Bon-fub
-1 fcrfher. the price will be raised.
Whatever encouragement may be given by ftib
; fcription, it will be committed to'he profs without
j delay ; and, barring accidents, will be roady for
' publication early ia April.
J gjT Subscriptions will be thankfully receivedat
I Binjamin ©AViiiVj book-ftote, No 68, High
• street, and by most of tha other booksellers ix the
! rity ; by George Hsll, in Baltimore; and by Sam
uel Campbell, and A. Drun.mond, 10 New-York.
January ji. lawtA •
- - »t
PROPOSALS,
B( TBI
Insurance Company of North America. \
bor Insurance against Fiat, on Dwelling-
Houses, Ware Houses, and other Buildings (and I
on Goods contained in such Building*) distant from
Philadelphia, in the United States.
!. Common lufurar.ee?, o« hazards of the firft ]
class, will be undertaken at a premium of ahout '
half per cent, per annum. For extra hazardous '
rifqm's a larger premium will be required, which
will vai y according to cireumftances, feidom ex- i
ceeding one per cent, per annum ; but in some in
ftanees, where the property insured is not only in
itfelf extra hazardous, liut rendered dill more so i
by the vicinity of extra hazardous building* and
occupations, the premium demanded will be raised
according to cireumftances.
Honles and Ware-Houses, the walls and parti
tions of which are wheuly of stone or brick, well
eunftruAed, so a« to guarded as well as may be
against fires from within, and Iree from extra ha
zardous buildings and occupations in their neigh
borhood, will be deemed of the firft
class, and may be insured to their full value.
Also Goods and Merchandize, not ol an extra
hazardous kind, in calks, bales, or packagss, de
pofitcd in such buildings, to an amount not ex
celling 4000 dollars ; hat if more than thinfum
is required to be insured in one tenement, an addi
tional premium will be required, in proportion to
cireumftances.
11. lnfurances will also be made on buildings and
goods extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to tha risque. But it is not easy to arrange these
under particular heads or clafTes, so as to describe
, each with the neceflary accuracy. Each cafe must
therefore be decided upon according to the cireum
ftances attending it ; and thefa cireumftances wili,
ill general, appear from the description accompa
uying the application.
Buildings partly condruilcd of brick or stone,
arc preferable to those wholly wooder. And in
both cafej, the stile of building, how they are oc
cupied, how they are situated, the neighboring
buildings, and how occupied, are considerations to
be taken into view. And withrefpeit togoods,
their tendency, whether from their nature, or
from the manner in which they are exposed, cither
to commence or to increase an accidental fire, at 4
their liability in such state to receive damage t j
wet, or by sudden and hafly removal, or to be sto
len in time of confoGon and hurry, are all cir
eumftances of weight ; and the premiums must be
proportioned accordingly.
111. The following conditiont are to be tmder
flood by the parties .
ift. The Insurance is net binding till the ftiru
lated premium belaid ; hut it (ball be dtemed ef
fectual from the time of such payment and accep
tance thereof, whether the poiicy be immediately
signed or not.
3d. Infuriacec may be renewtd at the expira
tion of the term of the policy, without fhrther ex
penses than the paymeßt of the premium of the re
newed term, the cireumftances continuing the fame
as they were nnderftood by the Insurers at the time
the former irfurance was ma le ; hut the payment
•f tht premium ia eflential to such renewal ; and
if the party insured fuffers any time to clapfe after
the expiration of the former insurance, before he
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
during Jiich time ; nor can the insurance be renew
ed on the former policy by computing (he
comm netment of the renewal from rhe expiration
of the former insurance. -The fubjtS of insur
ance may ncverthelefs be open to treaty for a new
fnfurance
3-d, If any other ir.furance be ma leon rhe fame
property j it mu't be made known at the time of
application, nth- rwiie ths policy made on such ap
plication will be void.
4th Goods held in trust, or on eonfignment,
may he infur«d as such in a feoarate policy ; but
thty are not robe considered as insured otherwise.
sth. This company will net be liable or accoun
table for any loss or damage occafioncd by any for
eign invasion, or by any military or ufsrped force,
or by reason of any civil commotion ; or occasion
ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or other thing of the
like kind kept in the building, or amongst the pro
perty insured.
6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu
rities, Title Deeds, Money, Bank and other pro
missory Notes, are not included in any insurance ;
nor are paintings, Tedals, jewels, gems, antique
I curiofitics, or mirrors exceeding the valae of twen
ty-five dollars each, to be considered as insured un
less particularly mentioned and by special agree
ment.
! 7th. No infnrance will be made for a shorter
term than one year, nor for a longer term than se
ven years, Persons choosing to insure for seven
years (hall be allowed one year's premium by way
of difeount: One third of a years premium {hall
be abated in like manner on an insurance for
( three years.
Bth. LolTes sustained by fire an property injured,
shall be paid in thirty days after due proof and li
quidation thereof, without deduction.
A defciiptioo of the property to be infurod will
be expefleu' with each application, to be made by
" a master carpenter and signed by him, as well as
' by the owner of the building 01 applicant for in
. furauce, and attested before a Notary or principal
' Magistrate, who will certify his knowledge of the
I parties and their credibility.
" With refpe<£t to Honfet and other Buildings,
ift. The site and position ; delcribing tht
street or road on or near which the building
(lands; itt contiguity to water, and other cir
® cumftances relative to the extinguishment of fire
in cafe of accident; and particularly whether
any and what fire companies are eflablilhed, and
engines the place or neighbou hood.
" zd. The materials of which it, is bruit, whe
ther of brick, stone or wood, and what part of
1 each, as'.well as to the sulfide walls as infideor
partition walls, and their refpeflive height and
* thieknefa ; the style of the t-oof and of what
materials ; hov, secured by bauleraents or par
® ty walls j what kind of access to the top of the
house aid to the. chimnies 1 whether any and
what ele&ric rods ; the number and kind of
fire places ; and the kind of deposit for allies.
• 3d. Thedimenfionsof the buiWing and how
divided, and thp style in which it is finifhed so
as ta enable indifferent persons to judge in what
, manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury ; the ige and condition of the building,
and how occupied, whether merely ae a dwel
> ling house, or for any other, and for what pur
" pose , also an estimate of the value of theheuie
or build ng independent of the ground.
4th. The situation with refpe £1 to other build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at least one hundred feet
t each way : what kind of buildings are within
* that difiance, kow built, of what materials,and
" how occupied or improved, whether as dwel
lings for private families or otherwise : whe
ther any and what trade or manufactory is car
n ried 011, and particularly whether there be any
0 extra hazardous articles used, or usually depo
c sited in the house, or within the distance afore
-1 fai»l, and of what kind.
* Refpefling go*dj in Houses, Warehouses, Stc.
I-. A f eneial description of the building in
w! ich they are kept will limilar in
J all refpefls, as to the daager from fire, with that
requircd for Insurance on the buildings them
selves.
t >, A defcription'of the kinds and nature of
. the goods, whether in cajks or other packages,
: or opened 1 and whether displayed in while
. .pieces or in the usual form for retailing. And
. if tbe goods vary materially in kind, a general
efttmate of the value of each kind propoicd to
b« insured ; but in Ae last parifeular aumute- j
ness of description is not expe&ed. ! ,
3. Articles of the following kinds are deem- |
ed extra hazardous, though in various degrees,
in whatever building they may be placed, vit.
pitch, tar, turpentine, rolin, wax, tallow, oil,
inflammable l'pirits, sulphur, hemp, flax, cotton,
dry goods of an inflammable kind opened.—
Glals, china ware or porcelain, especially un
packed; Looking glaffet, jewelery ; and all o
ther articles raorf than commonly inflammable,
or rrore than commonly liable to injury by sud
den removal or by moistures, or particularly
obnoxious to theft on an alarm of fire.
Letters post paid, diredled to the Secretary of
the Board of Directors, will be duly attended
to, An order for Insurance accompanied by the
means of paying the premium, will be imme
diately executed on the premium liting paid. If
the application contain an enquiry only, it will
be answered.
By order of the Board,
EBENEZER HAZARD, Sec'rj.
Office of the Insurance Company of North >
America ; PbiUd. Set. I, 1798- 5
Feb. 14.
James C. & Samuel W. Fiftier.
at rnE;n stors,
Ne.513, comer of Arch and Front street.
ttAVB. FOX SALS,
Cotton and worllcd Hcfiery in trunks
A few bale# red, white, arid yellow Flannel
Ditto fu>ty romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Puilicat silk ditto
Ditto Pondichcrry and Madrafs dino
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taffctics i
4000 pieces Nankeens, and
Few chests best Hyson Tea
At/a—lsoo boxes best London Window Glaft,
from Bby 6, to 19 by 14 —and 15 hbds. Olafe
Ware alfoited, which they willdifpofe of cheaper
than any in the city. •
Nov 18 jtawtf
ROSS & ~
HAVE fOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Cuflas, ami
a quantify of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in tags and boxes
Jamaica,
St. Vincent*, > RWM.
and Bengal j
300 calki. RICE, and
A parcel of fiiip bailding RED CEDAR.
Off 17.
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G M. De La GRANGE,
No. lie Walnut-street,
INFORMS those who wish to recur to the only
means of becoming perfefl in the French Lan
guage, that he lias just opened his I ibraby, con
fining of npwarda of 1500 volumes, she b«ft cal
culated te afford cither ufefui inftruiftion, or plea
sure. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may be seen at every book-feller's
in town.
n. b. All translation* from and into the French,
Eogliih and Spanish Languages, exeeutec with ae
curacj. and eoim mv.lj.
. COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBKIDG'E with much pleaf
ureand refpefl, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
she has received during four years residence m
Philadelphia"; and sfTures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, she has ma 1e a fupcrior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended by Mrs.
Grootnbridge and mailers excelling in flieir
refpeftive profeffions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, -797. Jimftf
The fitnation is perfeilly healthy: and made
more agreeable by an cxtenfive garden and lot
of ground adjnininc the house.
■ ~ FOR~SALE, at
Wm. Young's Btok Store,
No. 51, Second flreet, the earner of Chefnut street.
REPORT of the Committee of the House of
Reprcfcntatives of the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
. against WILLI \M BLOUNT, a Senator of the
_ United States, impeached of high crimes and mis
( demeanors, made in pursuance ol a resolution of
r the House of Representatives, authorizing
j Committee to fit during the recess of Congress, and
. intruding them "to enquire, and, by all lawful
" means, todifcover th- whole nature and extent
" of the offence whereof the laid William Blount
' " (lands impeache. , and who are the parties and
" associates therein "
1 Printed by order of the HottJe of Reprefentdtivet
j December lis 5
! School Books and Stationary.
1
W. YOUNG,
No. 12, Second-street, corn.>r of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS now ready for file, a very large afl'ort
meilt of Envlijh, French, Latin and Grecl
> SCHOOL BOOKS AIJi, such elementary books
' on Science, as are generally read in the academies
- and colleger throughout the United States.
C LATELY rUILISHED,
I Sheridan's Dictionary, the ftxth edition, in one
. large vol. Bvo price 3 dols.
Ditto, large 11 mo price idol, 75 etj.
f Ditto, common, price I dol. 50 cts.
r All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
! writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards. Pasteboards,
t (heathiwt; and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
. blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, of
, the best quality, used in the counting house, or
j public office
t £"5" Catalogues of a mifceltaHeous colleflion of
BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
r by inquiring as above. OS. 14.—3aw6w
t Yellow Fever and Pestilential
Diseases.
' THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, in one vol. oflavo.
By William Youhg, Bookseller,
e No. 52, Second llrect, the corner of Chefnut ltreet,
f Price, lit bejrdt 8 7 I 1 Cents)
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
t A VIEW
Of the Science of Life ;
Ol} the principles eftahlilhed in the elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BRO WN, M. D.
y, With an attempt to correal some important et
_ rors of that work, and cases in illullration, Chief
. ly feleifled from the records of their pradicr, at
tiie General Hofmtal at Calcutta,
Br William Tath 1$ Chat. Mkclsan.
1 To which is subjoined, a Treatise on the aflion
1 of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
t tion fiorthe cure of diieafes of indireifl debility.
- Andadifiertationonthefourcoe of Epidtmicand,
Peflilentialdifeafesjin whichisattemptedtoprove
F by a numerous induction of fa/Is, that they ne
, ver arlfe from contagion, but are always produ
r ced by certain states, or certain vicifiitudee of
1 the atmosphere, by Chavlci Macissan, of
1 Calcutta.
i no v. 11. jilt
THIS DAT IS OPENED,
And for sale by WILLIAM YOUNG, No. s*,
corner of Second and Chtfi ot-.^rctts,
In one large volume, 8 to.
fPrice •/ the timmtn paper t neatly hand, 1 dtllars $0
tents ; fat ditti, in hards, 3 dollars)
american t gazetteer,
I EXHIBITING, in alphabetical order, a much
a more full and accurate Account, than haa
hten given, of the State*, Province!, Countits,
Cities, Towns, Village#, Rivers, Bays, Harbour*,
Gulfs, Sounds, Capes, Mountains, Forts, ladinc
Tribes, and New Djfcoteries, on the AMERICAN
CONTINENT, also of the Wbst-Ikbia lfland.,
and oih<f lflaads appendant to the Continent, snd
thole newly discovered in the Pacific Ocean : De
scribing th« Extent, Boundaries, Population, Gov
ernment-, Produ&iens, Commerce, Maaufa&uret,
CurioGtiet, &c. of the leveral Countries, and of
tleir important Civil Rivifions—and the Longi
tude and Latitude, the Searings and Distances,
fr®m noted Places, of the Cities, Towns, aad Vil
hges ; —with a particular Defcripfiofl of The Cttr
gia IVeJttm TtrriUry. The whole cpmprifing up
wards of Seven ThuvUnd diftinA Articles.
Colic&ci and complied from the heft Authori
se, and arraaged with great care, by, and under
the direction of
JEDIDIAH MORSE, ». •.
Authcr of the American Universal Geography—
Fellow of th« ■ merican Academy of Arts and
Science*—and Member nf the Maffackufetti His«
torical Society.
[lllluftratt-d with fevea new and neat Map*J
(Pmhlifitd aiurling /» e3 tf Ctngnfi.J
Alfa, FG& SALS, at aim,
Mr. Mtrfe's Universal Geography,
In two large t vo. volumes, price 4 dols. jo <cs.
Ditto, abridged, at I dollar.
February t6. e»4t
Proposals for Publishing
A Dew Commercial Work in th< City *f
Philadelphia, to be entitled
The Philadelphia Price-Current,
AND
Nautical Recorder.
TO TH& PUBLIC.
THE Subscriber having been engag
ed in carrying on a publication in ttollon
j under the title of the " fcflon frit* Currtmt, aU
I Marine InUliignctr 1" a work, for utility and el
tent of circulation, equal perhaps to any publica
tion of the kind in Europe or America, is now
induced to rifquean attempt to publilh a similar
paper under the patronage of the citizens of Phi
ladelphia He makes the attempt fiom a persua
sion that a publication for general benefit, and ez
tenfive information, will receive as much fupporC
from the liberal minds of the 1 merchants and othen*
of this city, ,as pi ces of less opulence in the Uni
ted States—and although little immediate benefit
should result to the citizens irom such a publica
tion, yet it might prevent an idea abroad which
Tome have industriously circulated, that the trade
of this eitenfir city was on the declinir, and con
traded into so narrow a sphere that it vrould not
support a Price Cnrrent,
The general anxiety that prevails in the com
mercial world at thi-, critical period, renders a
work of the kind particularly ufeful and' necessary
—Nor can the utility be doubted, when it is con
sidered how extend ve the trad* and particularly
the insurance are affe&ed in this city.—A eareful
publication of the failing and arrival of velTels in
different parts of the world—advice from veflel*
at sea—accidents happening in and out of port,—
are ever circumftanccs that ought to be known by
the merchant and underwriter, and one informa
tion of this kind may save mere than the colt of St
hundred papers through life. The Editor engag
es to use his utmofl endeavors to make it honora
ble and profitable to himfelf, sensible t hat it can
b< done only by making it acceptable to his patrons.
Thispublication will contain, ageneral Price Cur«
rentofall articles cfimportation& exportation, with
the dutias on importation, in this City, New-York
and Bollon— Foreign Price Currents, in general ;
to obtain which the various European publication!
will he procured, particularly thofs of London,
Liverpool, bthiol, Hamburgh, Sc.—all arrival*
and clearances in the principal ports in America,
and every article of nautical information which
can in any manner be ufeful or intere .ing to mer
chants iu general. It will likewise contain Prices
of Stocks in the different parts of the United State*,
corre£bd by eminent Brokers— Cuftcm houte im
portations—Laws, Arrets and Decrees 01 commer
cial tendency, &c. See.
conditions.
Ift. To be printed with a no w type, on good paper
of a large crown i;ze, and contain 4 pages folio.
2d. It will be published twice a week, and deliv
ered to fubferibers in the city early on the morn
ings of publication, and forwarded to those out
of the city with the greatest expedition and care,
jd. The price will be four dollars per annum ; pay
able, one dollar on he delivery of the firtl
number; one d«lbr at the expiration of three
months and the rcfidue at the end of the year.
4th Suhfcribeis for the work in any other place
than the city, to pay one half yeats fubferiptioa
, money.
sth. The work to begin as soon as five hundred
fubferibers are procured, of which notice will
i be given.
i gj* Subscription papers will he placed in th*
various public offiies, &c. and fentin the courfc of
the week, to the citizens in general, for their pai
: ronage. JOSEPH N. RU»SSELL.
February 10. tuf&mat
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a gencuu*
rent will be given; to be taken tor a /ear, or on
more for a longer term. Inquire of the Primer.
OS. 17. ebtf
Tor sale,
Several fonts of Types—'half worn.
Including Long Primer, about 400 weight, in
good condition, and would answer the purpose of
a country Printer as well as new.
Enqiiire of the Printer.
City Commidioner's Office,
January nib, IJ9>.
FOR THK INFORMATION OF THF C'TIZIKI.
THE following arrangement is nia 'e by thf
said commiflieners, for clcanfing th*
ftretts, &c.
Diftntf No. 1. —From the north fide of Vin*
llreet, to the south fide of Mulberry to
be under the fuperintendance of Nicholas Hicks.
1 From thp south fide of Mulbrry llreet, to
the south fide <•>! Clcefnut ftrreet, to be under the
fuperintendanre of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut llreet to
the north fide *f Spruce street, t &he under th*
fuperintendance of loleph Claypoole.
4. From the vo* th fide of Spruce llreet, to the
south Me of Cedar llreet, to be under the fu
perintendmcf of Hugh U<bcTt». mwfim
'Just Published,
And to be had of MefTrs. Dotifon, Campbell ,Ric«,
Cary, anil the other pricipal Beokfellers in the
city price one dollar,»winty-five cents,in boards,
; New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, v. d.
Jane to. *it