of $c ANP Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
/^y ,r ', %
Bv lour- Ward Fen no, N o ' 119 Cbefnut Street.
' hvirkT^i7.] PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 8, 1798. [Tozt/** XIV.
For SALE cr CHARTER,
THE SHIP
MOLLY, J
Burthen 420© barrels of Flour, S
Philadelphia built, well found ■
57S 5 an d fi tte d, and may he ready J
«o Twefre a cargo in 1 few daye—(he is pierced P'
*8 gunn, and mounts n new fix ponnfcrs, with C F
foall arms in proportion. re
THE SHIP f P '
DIANA,
Burthen 2,100 barrels of Flour,
Philadelphia built of live oak
. cedar, i» pierced for f.*ir
teen guns, end mounts ten new four pounders,, 3
with small arms m proportion-. \
THE BRIG 1„
AMAZON,
Burthen 1,300 barrels of Flour,
New-England built, has lately
feeen completely fitted, aud may be ready for sea
in a few days.
For terms to
NICKLIISj fcf GRIFFITH.
Who have for Sale J
on board sundry vejftls at Mjrcvs-HooX, t h
I 2,030 bufliels of Liverpool fine fait 0
i,ioo bulhcls of coals
186 crates of queens wate aflbrteel
7 tierces of bottled porter
10 barrels of coloethard paint
4 do. of purple brown do.
a quantity of yell<iw ocre in calks
6 barrels powdered Venetian red paint
6 barrels mineral black -10.
15 barfcls Spanilh brown do.
35 boxes of pipes
9. bexes white ) HAVANA SUGARS
?9 do. brown J
3,5001b5. prime cochineal '
3 barrels New Orleans indigo
4 puncheons Jamaica spirits
ao hales of fail canvass
379 (beets of copper, aflforted from 48 by 24
to 60 by 48 inches
Two tubs raised still bottoms aflorted
36 fix pound gu«S4j- feet, BJcwt each
14 do. 4 feet, icwt and 4lbs each
50 barrels of gun powder
6 cases Manchester cotton checks
3 trunks mullins and (hawls
14 cases muflinets, dimities and gJhghams
»8 cherts coloured nankeens, muflinets, &c.
Xi trunks printed calieoes
6 bales of whits and coloured caffimeres
l bale of course waolleris
Eneltfh nails assorted.
o£lober27- fri.&fat. tf.
For Sale.
THE SunscßiiiSß, intending *o decline the
DRtok BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the
whole Stock of r
Drugs and Medicines, Instruments, &L,
Th; (hop is elegant, commodious, afad fulfici- o(
egtly known for the extensive business tlont in the in
wholesale and retail line ; the situation equal to dc
any in the city, being at the eointr of Walnut aacl N
Second ftrcets. The whole, or any part of the ce
Stock, will he fold, as wits bed suit the purchaser.
Th» terms may beknown, by applying to bt
James moore, jdn.
Who has For Sale, _
lor the river trade—' p
The Peggy, about 3otonsburthen, e
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, antl remarkably I*
flout, of an easy draught *vf water, rigging in I
good order. 1
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails J
wellj and in complete order for the lumber bufnaefs.
$pT All persons indebted to the late firm o4 r
Goldtlii*art 55* Baldwin, W. B Goldthivah, Cola-
tb-mait Isf Afwre, or the subscriber, are earnestly %
requested to make fpeetly payment to
JAMES MOORE, jun.
»«gt»Bt 3 • §_ j
Ship Brokers.
Ifhis Eftablilhmcnt, commenced by the late Mr. ■
Samuel bmjth, will be continued by
Row £s* Simmons, e
.TT THO refpeSfully acquaint the Merchants, fa
|,yV and Mailers of veflels; that n»
pair a or exertions (ball be wanting to give general
fatisfafliou .ThU business will be condufted at their
St»re, No. 107, South Water Str.eet, neir to the
Puftom House.
Prober 17 dtf
For Sale, or Charter, ]
THE DANISH BRIG »
WLoUI S A, P
NOW lying at Burlington, a ve- n
sy fall fall'er.—For terms to v
JACOB SHOEMAKER. 0
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
tier cargo, of about 2,000 bushels of
St. Martin's Salt. 11
10 mo. 14th. *9B d4ot.
AVIS AUX. FKANCOIS,
>—««. Le Parlementaire P
sMktf- LA VIC TO I RE, (
: 3 > d'une marche fupirieure partira
P'efi', direiSemcnt pour lc /
SSaSkjmzC-S port Republicain, ceux quit
defirent y prendre passage font pries de fe rendre a t
Philadc'phie avant 'a dite tpoque. \
S'ldrtffcr a New York Chez Mefiieurs Blanche
tea 1 and Caztneuve. Jaiaes Ureet, No 20, and i "
Philadelphie ch<r Fs. Breuil, Armateur du dit '
batiment Sprnce street.No. 115. "
Le 5 Nevembre. 1798 05* "
Wanted to Charter,
FOR BALTIMORE,
A Small Vessel,
four to five hundred barrels ;
tfUriett. PETER BLIGH T. J
Whose Counting House |
has opened, as usual, this day.
HOT. <UW
AVIS AUX FRANCES- I
Le Parlemsntaii le
BENJAMIN FRAIKLIN,
Capt. Jon«s,
• Consu par fa marche iupeteure, par
-1 mt&isEil tira le 11 prefix, tocnt p»ur
r JfrimUi ceur qui lUf'jretu y prenuTc piiTage font Qf
| pries de fe rendre a Phihdelptie-air(r.t a dite
, epoque.
S'adreffer a New Tork che*
reau and Caze~2uve, James street, No. 2C, and i
Philadelphie cliez Vis. Breuil, armateur dulit ba-
timent Spruce street, N». I tj. ''
U 5 nov. 1798 * dST m<
For Savannah, (Georgia.)
T "* FA9T SAII - ING correßEO ship j
R ich akd West, Mailer, IV
TO fail in teu days.—For freight or passage ap- c
ly to STEPHEN\ KINGSTON,
No. 46, Walnut Street. »
trtio has, S
140 Boxes of Havanna Sugar, jy
And a box of Mace, for sale. j<
> november 6 eo6t
Forty Dollars Reward. '
LOST, on the road from Mount Holly to Phi- C
ladelphia, on Monday 49th October, 1798, J}
the following NOTES, payable to the subscriber :
Doils. Cts.
Elizabeth Norman, of June 29
1706, at 6 months, for 333 33
Do. fame date,at I» months, 333 33
Do. do 18 months, 333 33
Jacob Norman, September 30
1795, at 60 days, Si 60
Thomas Potts, Sept. lb, 1796,
at 6a days 9°°
Joseph Doane, Avgud 17,1796, St
at 6 months 440 60
Do. fame date, 12 months 440 60 j D
' Do. do. 18 months 44° 6°
M'Kean & Van Emburgh's note,
dated November 9,1796, at 60 Ei
days - - 11JO
D». Nov. 16, 1796, at 60 4ays 1175
Nathan Field, Nov. 4, 1796, at
1 60 days - - BjO
John Negus, December 5,1796, at J
60 dajn - - 805 89
Joseph Norman, April 26,1797, at A
1 60 days - - 34°
David Scull, July IS, 1797, at 60 , M
days - , - - j' 9^
Jobn Perry, January 1,1798, at 6 R
months - - 3&° J°
Do. do. 12 months 37* 4c
Benjamin F. Garrigues, February
21, 1795, at one year - 600 R
Do. do l . 1 years 600
Do. do. 3 years 600 Li
Do. do. 4 years 600 Sa
Wilson and co. note, May 8, 1798, Ir
at 30 days - - 100
Row and Simmons, June 15,1798
at 5 days - - 535
' Two Lottery tickets indorsed on the back John
R. Taylor and John Clark.
There are some other Notes, Draughts & Orders
. of no use but to the subscriber.—Any person find
; ing the fair a and returning them to Mr. Alexan
-1 der Shiras in Mount-Holly, or t» the subscriber, r
1 No. North ihaU re
ceive the above reward and no questions a(ked. d;
Payment lieing flopped, they can be of no use m
but to che owner. X
JOHN CLARK. B
Nov. J. dtf
United States "> »■ hi
Penufylvania Dtftriil. j ' f c
* TN pursuance of a writ to me direfted from the
X honorable Richard Peters, efqr. judge of the
► diftriit court of the United State?, in and for the
Pennsylvania diftridl, will be exposed to public sale,
, sn Walnut firset whan, on Tharfday the Bth of
y November next, at 12 o'clock at r.ooti,
I. J large new cabla pieces of fail cloth
I do. worn do. I (hip's bell
g I frrvill do. do. 7 iron bound water caflci
I cable about s inches A denwraft or jrachine
'' 1 old do. 5 do. to pr«fs goods when
1 coil of cordage loading
2 do. of do. i iron crane*
y 2 founding lines of one 1 new flag
hundred and fourteen, I do. jack u
and fifty (athoms 1 pennant
I main fail 4 copper kettles and lids
I fore-top-fail 2 tea kettles
I main-tap-fail 1 coffee kettle
I jib A small copper pot & lid
I main-top (lay-fail 4 compasses
3 iludding-fails A small anchor
4 under itudding fails 36 calks of rum andabout
I fun fail 12 calks of sugar.
The articlss aforefaid being now on board the
brig Specialadio» lying in the port of Philadelphia, (
' and di(lri& of Pcnnfylvania—The fame having f
been saved from the wreck of the Danish (hip .
Den Godther.ligh: at sea, ar.d libelled against for
>, salvage.
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marflial.
1 Marshal's oifice, OA. 15.
e John Dobbin,
BOOT SHOEMAKER. \
RESPECTFULLY informs his Friends and
the Public in general that he carries on his c
business at Ho 99 South SecondJlreet, nbarly op
posite the Merchants Coffee house where gen
tlemen maybe supplied iH the neatest and best
manner—he aUtlres ;h6fe who m.iy please to fa
vor him with their commands that no attention
or exertion on his fide ftiall be wanting to render •
. him worthy of their encouragtment. *
i N. B. Orders received will be punctually at- c
tended to.
November 5 } 1
DISIRICI OF PENNSYLVANIA, 1U wil l 1
BE IT REMEMBERED,
, THAT on the twelfth day s
, V of August, in the twenty-third year of f
•a the Independence of the United States of \
lc America, Benjamin Smith Barton, of the said dif- f
□ i tridl, hath deposited in this office the title of a I
a Uook the rigli,t wß'creof he claims as author in tfie si
words following to wit :
e- "New Views of the Origin of the Tribes ar.d j
a " lotions of America—3jr Sn>ith Bar
lit " D.Corrcfpondent Membtrof iheSocie- "
" ty of the Antiquaries of Scotland, Member of
14 the American Philosophical Sociery, Fellow of
" the American Academy ot Arts and Sciences of .
14 Boston, Correfpondidg Member of the Mafia- 1
" chufetts Historical Society, and Profeffor of \
" Materia M*dica, Nstural Hiftorv and Botany t
u in the Univcr.lty a£ Pennsylvania." i
In conformity to the a«fl of the Congress of t-e a
*ls United Stat<S, fatitled "An ait for the encourage- f
mcnt of learning V»y fccuring the copies of maps, I
ch; rts,and to< ks, to the authors and proprietor, c
of such cos ics dnring the timesther .in thentiohcd.'s :
SAML£Ii CALDWELL,C erk, of Penn*
November a, 1793.
i
ISRAEL PLEASANTS & Co.
No. 74, South Second street, In
Have returnedfrom the cauntry ; and have for
SALE, as vfual, a large ajfurtment of
DRY GOODS,
Imported in the lafi vefllls fron Europe 1 , confiding A
of articles principally fnitcA to the preiint and ap
proaching season ' O
They are determined te fell off very low for
cash or fliort credit. El
Note. All persons indebted to th« lata firm of Vi
S,imncl Plcafants 15" Sow, are desired to make im- St
mediate payment to tho fubferibers. , O
Israel Pleas ants £sf Co. J L
Nov. 1 d4W
FRUITS, WINES,
MALAGA WINE, in butts
SHERRY ciitto, in quarter casks
. BRANDY, in butts and pipes
SUN-RAISINS, in kegs
MUSCATEL do. in boxes _
BLOOME do. in do.
SOFT SHELLED ALMONDS in facia, I
. OLIVE OIL i.ti boxes of 12 bottles w
. BITTER & JORDAN ALMONDS in o
boxes, &c.
FOR SALE BY "
PETER KUHN,
No. 17,8, North Market street.
Nov 1 diot e .
The Subscribers I
Are now Landing—For Sdi# 9
St. Croix Rum—Mulct>vado Sugar
Red Port Wine,
In pipes, hogflieads and quarter Calks.
Two thousand bushels of Salt,
Eighteen Iron Six poMnders' proved at Woolwich. C
Philips, Cramand, Cs* Co.
November 3 dtot j-
JuJl imported in Jhips William Perm, A
tniable and Jean, from London,
Aqaantity of Cannon,fizes 4,6 & 9 lb."> with balls
CaTotiades, n lbs. J suitable. 2
Mufquets, Mufquetoens.Cutlafles and") W
Pistols, for (hips use, j 5.
Rifled barreled Guns, Fowling Pieces, 1 g »
and Horseman's Pistols, [ -JT"?
400,000 Flints, chiefly for mulkets, in j P*
hegs. J "a
Regulation Light Dragoon Sabres, with Iron Scab
b»rds, in cases of 5® each, '
Light Cavalry Swords in Cases
Sabres, Swords and Cutlasses, with plated mounting
Ironmongery and Cutlery in calks, a general at'
fortmeat—For Sale by
Thomas tsf Jno. Ketland,
, Philad. Oilober 25.
Last Notice to the Creditors arid
Debtors of John Shields.
THE firft are requested to render their Ac
counts agair.H him, made up to the 23d [
day of August, 1797, the date of his Assign
ment, that a Dividend may be promptly made.
The taft to pay off their Accounts, Notes, and -j
Bonds, before the firft day of December enfning.
_ Any that remain unsettled after that period, will
bf put into the hands of an Attorney at Law,
for recovery. T
DAVID M. SHIELDS, 1
Attorney, {in fajft) to the
Assignees and Trustees of
j, J. Shields.
Chefnut-ftreer, No, 21.
November I, 1798. dtf.
FOR SALE,
c A F ARM on the road leading to State Island,
n -Zi. within four and an ballmiles bf Phi'ladtlJiMa,!
containing 45 acres in the highest Hate of cultivation j
—25 aer(.» of wrhit.b is maadow, the remainder up
land. There arson the premises, • new frame Hoi.fe
and Barn, with an excellent kilchen garden, contain
ing a great numberbf fruit trees. —Immediate polfcf
li6n will be given.
lh For terms apply to
Thomas IV. Francis,
d " ov - 3- 5 i
SAMUEL PARKER,
" BRASS and BELL FOUNDER.
No. i.x 7, Mulberry street, I
e /CONTINUES to carry on the brafi JwinJery
*' bufmejs as ufo'al, Where his former cufto
* rriers and the public may be supplied with cast.
it'gs for machines to any pattern, rudder braces,
bolts, &<: for (hips.
It may be proper to add, that, as it has been
reported he bad declined the business, S. P. tikes
thii means of informing the public that he is
making arrangements to carry it on still n»ore
'Xtenfirely, hoping thereby to comply pfuinpt
ly with such orders as he may have to execute
d 0" Belts, of any size, cist for churches and
is other inftitulioris ; printers rules, 4c.
)- ©dtober 26 eo 3t.
ft A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
1*
n TOHN A. SHAEFFER, orf Philadelphia, who has
r J for a few years pall been in the fouihetn States,
has had the effrontery to draw fevered Bills of £x
t_ change on Timothy Picketing, Esq. Secretary oi
State, and myfelf,and by that means has defrauded
a number of perfoh; «f their money; deceiving
•- them F>y an exhibitiotr'of letters and papers with' the
names affiled of divers public charadleis and repu
table merchants highly recemm'endatory of (aid
y Shaeffer; to one of these papers I find my niftie
of fubfcriljstJibut Ido not know the man ; theft are
if villainous forgeries ITo prevent fucthcrimpofUion,
f- I have to request the .printers of Newspapers in the
a United Stares topublHh this fer thel'enafit of their
IC fellow-citizens. SA VItJEL WfiffKßlTH,
Treasurer of th: UnHtdStatu.
d TrtntOH,JSTnv- s'"fij'X
r October *l4, I'}^. )
« TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
it T~XUSERTE.p tall night, a fee and time, from
of tl e Marine Camp, David Lxfier, a fifer.—
i- He had when he wetit away, a plain bluejacket and
of veU,light-blueoveral!s, a round hat,which Ividbeen
ly boimd with yellow, and which he had ripped off
in his fiift dcfertion, and a pair of new iboes. he is
:e a Carpenter by trade, has grey eye»,far.dy bair
e- fallow complexion and a nitch in his upper lip
s, His back is ftfll fore from a flogging hi go< a few
r, days ago. He may bo difcovcred by his fifei/ig,
.'s as he plays extremely well.
n' W. W. BURROWS Major Com. of the
O.Sober 17. Marine Corps.
1
Just Arrived,
In the Brig E1123, from the Mediterranean, and
now landing at Walnut Street wharf,
Fourth proof Brandy in Pipes. ®
Brimstone. V Q (
Anaffortment of valuabla DRUGS, , n
CONSISTING Or Pr
Opi*m, Aloes, "Canthariiles, Camphire, Senna, all
Creifior Tartar-, &c. Ac. cp
E(fences of Lemon rnd Bergamot
Writing pap«r
1 Sweet oil in bottles and flalks
Olives, anchovies and capers
Juniper berries
A L S o.—ltalian lutestrings
Satins f
1 Crapes V
Umbrellas 38
Remaining on Hand, t ]
St. Croix Sugars,
Claret in cases F
Old Madeira Win« of the firft quality.
JAMES YARD.
November %
jAMEb 6c RICHARD bMlirt,
; TTAVE this clay returned from the country to
11 their StOiE* No. '4, Soutli Front-ftrcet,
where they htve for -fate?, as a large and ge
-1 ncral aflortnljeilt of European and East-India
DRT GOODS,
mod oi have now arrived and are landing,
from the different veflels, from Hamburgh, Lon
don, Liverpool and Hull.
Their Customers by applying will find almofl
every article gene/aUy imp.orccd, and at as low
prices for cafti ur cyeiHc,as they can be had ejfc
where. ,
N. B A few Cafrs of Kurenbergh TOYS, a
confignrnent, to be fold By the cafe only.
Philadelphia, Nov. 1, T798.
The Subscribers
HAVE JOST REC» IVID A* INVIJICB OF A
1. Choice Cheflii re £s?Double Gloucester
CHEESE.
[Per the Chesapeake from Liverpool.]]
100 Boxes of Window Glass,
Of various sizes, per thejANE, from London, g,
They have also for Sale, ir
s 200 Casks of Refined Salt-Petre, k
AND A QUANTITY OF
Fine Castor Oil.
fames C. y Samuel IV. Fisher. I
November I dtf /
~ JAMAICA RUM,
/I Cargo noiv landing at South Jlreet ivharj, a
FOR SALE BY V
, PETER SLIGHT, r ,
- Apply at Stores on the Wharf, a
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SALE, ']
BRANDY, ift and 4th proof t ]
Madeira and Port WINES, &c. &c.
Nav. 1. ' dtf
I IMP O R T E D,
AND TO BE SOLD BY
CHARLES WHARTON,
1 [At his Hcrufc, No. 136, South Second Street.J
Old Lisbon Wine,
[j Of the firft quality, in pipes and quarter casks, a
Tea China, aflorted in boxes. e
Hvfon 1 f,
Hyson fein, and TEAS. u
' Young Hylon 3
India liandanr.a and Chopah Romal Silk Hand- t i
kerchiefs.
Nankeens
1 Blade Sattin
Black and coloured Lutestrings
Black foxing Silk y
Garden Fanas,- i iailk Umbrellas, &c. &c.
j November 5 fljit
_j A—
); ROBERT SMITH & Co.
n Have returhe'd to the City, and are now open
ing at their Store, No 58, So. Front-Jlreet,
c A larj<c and General
ASSORTMENT OF GOODS,
Suitable to the Season,
Wkich they have just received per the' late c
arrivals from London, Hull, Liverpool and ,
Glasgow fvia New York) and will dispose c
~ 01 011 very low terms for Calh or (hort credit, i
TO BE LEI,
A House ipjFourth-ftrcet, next door tp 1
to the Indian,Queen —enquire as above.
ry r.ovember 6 1 4' (
L FOR
s > AT THIS OFFICE,
A FEW Copies 6f an intereftingj Work, in
es Pr'ehrh, entitled a Hi<l6ry 6f
is The Admmiftration of the French
£ Finances,
:e DURING THE TEAR 1796.
'd Also, An Hiftoriral and Political View of the
Ailminiflratiori of the French Republic, during
the year 1797,- —of the CSufes Which produc
ed the
Revolution of the 4th September —
as And of the results of that Revolution.
x- PRICK I I>OLLAR EACH.
Thefe two political trafl's, are from the pen
of the celebrated d'lverh'oisja'iid contain athou-
fand ii'terefling difdofures of-ttte folly, venality
and pififligacy of the different Usurpers who
have reigned in France du inp the latter stages
le of t+ie horrible Revolution how pending in that
re miserable and depraved couaUyt
n , Nov. 3. $
• e r GJvOKGE DAVIS, ~ j
TAKES this opporuinity of informing
his friends generally, that so fuon as the pre- I
fcnt ficknefswill admit it, he propofca to olK:r for
sale, the mod cxtenfive colleiticn of
LAW BOOKS.
m he ev«r imported, or that was ever imported into
_ the United States.—The lase arrivals have bronght
:id him a aumber of extremely valuable and frarcc
en BOOKS, and tkofe txpedled, will greatly add to
iff the quantity.
Oflober 11 r eody-v
'„ r To be fold or Rented,
:w TH£ fsbferiber's hoKfc, No. 78, Walnut
ig, flreet,with a etllar and two fta'.les—PcffilTion or
(the hosfe will he given early in November—the
he » (Ifbl". ai»l cellartairaec • tly. » .
GEORGE. MEAD.
O.'lciicr 14, §tf
N O T I C E,
d 3 HAT the firil Monday of December neit is
*- appointed for my hearing before* a Court of
Commvti Pleas ot Allegheny County, in the Statfl
of Pcnufylvauia, on an application lor the benefit
ot the a«ss of this Hate providing for the relief of
t infolveat'dtbiftrs, having at September term la/l
prefcntcd n.y petition, with a fcheduie armexuu, of
y all my eftacc real, ptirfoMal aj»d mixt, rights and
credits, to be afiigned for the use of ray creditors.
ALEXANDER SUMRALL.
Nov. a.
To be Let,
An airy three Story Brick House,
ON the South fide of filbert Street, between
Eighthand Ninth street, formerly occupied
as the Surveyor General's Ofhec-—Enquire at No.
ill, Chefnut Street.
au«uft 10 _ eojt
For Sale,at the Stores of the Sub
fcrib6r6, on Walnut Itreet Wharf,
195 calks of naiis aflorted
- ao biles of fail canvass, from No. Ito 8
5 3 calks yellow ochre
0 1 j tierces bottled porter, 6to 14 doz. each
London particular > w , •
India market £ Madeira W.ne»
Teneriffe do. in hogfheadsand pip
Old Port do. In hhds.
Empty Chrct bottles
>' 6 cafesof Ginghams, Dimities, Muflinet:|&c,
aflorted for the Wefl-India liinrket
~ 4, 10, and 9 inch cablesand to coils of cordage
Writing (iatcs, ink Hands a.id prefios
\ ao puncheons Jamaica rum
t bale (earning twine
160 bundles lheatliing paper
Nicklrn izf Griffith.
: april 7 tmhNf.tf
This Day is Puhlifhed,
AND rOR SAL K BY J. FFNNO, 1 1 g,C H E S N U T-S "» RUT
r AN ADDRESS
To the People of Maryland,
ON the origin, progress and prel v-t state of
French aggreifion, with a Iketch of the infamous
attempts to degrade the Government of the United
'• States, and fomc reflections on the late proceedings
in Congress; written the last of April in the pre
; fentyear, by a Member of the Hoafe of Reprefm
., tatives. § june 11
Canal Lottery, No. 11.
r * Considerably more than Half Drawn.
Draws twice a week, every Monday & Tuejilaj
For Sale, Seven Dollars each, at
. WILLIAM BLACKBURN'S Lottery
'» and Brokers office, No. 64 South Seeond-ftreet,
where cheek books are kept for examination ind
registering in this, City of Waftiingtou No. a.
and Paterfon Lottei ies and information where
Tickets may be had in molt of the Lotteries au
thorised by law in any of the States of the
Union. y
_ Stati or the Wheili
One prize of 10,000 dollars 10, coo
Five 4,00® ao,oo»
Two a,OOO 4,000
Nine 1,000 9,000
j Nineteen 500 9».?0®
Forty-four aoo !i,Boo
With a full proportion of the one hundred
and of the fifty dollar prizes—tke price of tick
ets willfoon rife, particularly on atcount of the
five 4,000 dollar prize* that remain in the wheel
until the last day of drawing.
gjT Note, the business of a Broker duly at
tended to in all its branches at the above ofliqe
may 24 w&stf
HAPPT DISCOVERT.
A certain Cure for that alarming and dreadful Disorder
The Yellow Fever,
At will as any other dangerous putrid fever, fever and
ague, and other inveterate and complicated diseases, hy
tise use of the
POUDRE UNIQUE,
> XT rELL known and patented in England, France,
VV Poland, and all the capital cities in Europe,
where the moll aftomlhing cures have been effeA
ed on persons judged iacufable by all jihyfician«.
In a Treatise printed in London, on the properties
of this powder, by T. Seymour, M. D. lateChe-
J d mid'to his Majesty, there are Hated two hundred
|fe cases, where this most valuable remedy has proved
it. infallible, in all kind of fevers, plenrify, bloody fux,
inverate rheumatifmt, feiatiea, apoplexy, pataiyfu, ycl
tP l°' w juundice, ringworm, ivor ms ir child, (n and in g town
persons, whites, chronical head and ftomoch aches, Lpa
tici and nephretical or Jlone cholic, the k ings evil, fcurvm
_ and the mof! inveterate and complicatedvenereal difeafc. It
islikewife tjie best preparative for the fmallpor
and mealies; ot the greatest utility for young as
wallas for elder ladies at the critical epoch of their
in life, ilie efficacy of this powder in laveral ol the
above difcafe* has been dilcovered by chance, and
1 so it has been In the yellow fever lift year, by Mr.
' Mahy, who cured several by adminifterinj; only •
two of the said powders, and lpft not 4 single 6a
tient which he undertook to'tufe, as proved ahd
attcfled by the litre annexed certificates, whose ori
;he ginal Way be seen at Andrew liadfegs umbrella fiop,
«g No. IJ t, corner of Chefnut and FourthJlreets, the on
ac- place where these powders are to be had, with
proper dire&ions for the use of them.—Price tw»
dollars.
The ufeftilnefs ami certainty of this remedy be-
D ing.so gteat for so many dangerous disorders, any
j person wilhing to be protided with tbofe powders,
will please to apply, very soon, as the quantity-at
n liand is rot rery large, rod it is doubtful if for a
l«ng time, or if ever any other genuine wdl be inj
. ported, the secret remaining only iji the hands of
'. r - the inventoi 1 , in Europe, and rierer being commu
-10 nicated to, or discovered by any other pcrfim.
o cs N. B 111 the yellow and putrid fevers, this pow
lat der mull bo taken th« lecond, or at laaft the third
day-
We the fubfertbers, during the late ficknefi in
this city, having taken the yellow fever, applied to
Mr. Mahy far his medical aSiltance, we do here
ng by certily, that by a certain powder, cal'ed the
re . Poudre Unique, we ware perfe<9ly recovered from
f or the said fatil sickness, and frum an experience of
the happy sffefts of the above mod valaable medi
cine, conlider it our duty to make the fame known,
for the benefit of our .fellow citizens.
"J" Margaret Jones,
Myius O'Connor,
rcc JelTe Turner,
t0 Ckrillcn Rebecca Dow,
Catheriii appk,
[ Ann Grover,
William Bills,
David Williams, rrrpenter,
William T.Dooaldfon, maft-majrer..
or Mr. M«by's well known Plaifter, for all kind of
the wounds and frtreo, to be iiad at the above diret*-
tion, No. t.;t, Chefnut flrlet.
august S aaw-.fbamuci hotter, VViiiiaih Page aiiu
'lhomas Price,
Ko. Jl CHPSNUT tTKUTi
Are now opening a very exterifive ujfortment of
D RT GOO DS>,
Suitable to the present Teafon,
Which they have just received per
Ships Fa&or, Boyne,Otiego & Independence,
(via Nfw Torkj from LONDON *
A
110, prr (hips William Penn & Amiable from
London, and (hips Sally and Thomas from
Liverpool,
IVh 'tch ihey will fell on very low terms for
cajh or approved notes, tiiz.
Common and fuperfine 7-8 fancy and chinz cal
cloths j licoe*
Plain 8c fancy coatings 7 8 common and chintz
Plain and fir pad furnitures
meres \ very large quantify of
Swartfdowns cbirtttfi
Rofc ind duffill Hlinke's i-'urf le and chintz ftawls
Red and yellow flannels Lin»n and lawn pocket
Fi#e Welch fliiineW f andkerrhiefs
and carpeting C amels' hair awls j
Jrannttts If tabby cord* a v ry large aflbrtmtfnt of t
Velvmens & velveretts ribbonds (
Thickletts> Britifliplain checked,flri
( alhmancoes, durants & pedand tambourM muf
jcans fins of all dtferiptions
and worsted . olored bordered (hawls^
hose a great variety
Cotton, callicoe, & twist 5-4 and 6-4 conjevcrams f
eh**ikti and betr* U<*r s <
I>irnitirs India book & jaconet muf
3 4 and 7-8 !im
Daniufh table liner. Laces and edging* "*■
4-4 and 6 4 (htetings Jlack and patmt iacc
Irifli line, s Lace v ils and figured
Ginghams clocks
Pulongs andfattins
A very quantity of Pcrfians ard farfan«ft 1
Fiik modes "
And a variety cf other' articles. f
Nov. 3 tu th fa.im
Smith & Rodman,
No. 49, South Front Greet,
Havejujl received per the William Penn, and £
Jane,/remLondon, Dianaant/Thomas E
from Liverpool, Kingfton,
froth Huli, _
A LARGE & GENERAL ASSORTMENT Of
DRY GOODS,
AMONG WHICH ARE
Plain, twill'd and striped Crapes
Coatings Plain& striped Wildbores «
Fine white and red Welfl) Worsted, Yarn & Cotton 1
Flannels Hose
\ Do. yellow and scarlet do. Men and Boys Woollen
Superfine and low priced tyittent
s'4i 6-4, 7-4, cloths of 7"? ch ' d Irin > Dow - ~
all colors ,a( " s
Plains and Halfthicks 3~* brown In ft. Linen
Forest and Hunter Cloths b '° WD L
Greene Red Draper, O z „a- f
n Ba '* c , , burgh in bale, C ®
. S
Red & green Backing do. ~8 in d yard-wide lri(h blt
Swanfdowns Iff Toilanettsl Linens q u
Rose, Point and Duffill Printed Callicoes&Chin
an kefs tzes lor
Superfine London Caffi- Printed Linen and i
meres of the neweftand der'd Handkerchiefs
mod fafhionable colors Cottm& "allic-ie Checks
Low priced Yorkfliire do.'threat! * agi n £* & Laces
Plain and striped Calli-! 'M n '. s caver Gloves j
mancoes u ln ma " ca^€B J is <
Joa*i Spinnings &Durants "oJand Tapes 7y
Rauiactts & Shaliosns 1 n,ckft,s a « d Corduroys L ;
•w U
*m*£m ««1 C ~""j
VVi'f) a variety or other Articles on hand, for!
fa!e outhe mod redonable terms for cafli I Twi
or the afual credit. j q
Nev. 6 tu.th&fa.tt
Just Imported,
Iron cannon, double fortified, Woolwich proof, I vj
with their carriages complete—3, 4, 6 and o „„
pounders. I *
Carronades, Woolwith proof, with carriages, &c. I
complete— 12, 18 ani 24 pounders. I Z!
Cannon powder in kegs of 2(lbs. each
Round, double headed, and cannifter (hot I <->r •
Patent Ihca-hing copper, bright, affortcd 18,10,1 r
22, 24, and 28 or per square foot, fteets 48 1
by 14 inches, fuitalle for v«flels from 100 to J
1000 tens j r-j-i;
Copper nails, bolts and fpilces I
Boarding Pikes, « I Nort
Common cutlaffcs I p e
Gu tiers stores of 1 Debt
Tin-plates No I—l-3 cross Wes I po ; nt
Patent Ihct in calks of scwt. each I {n e tl
London porter and brown lisut.in calks of 7 doi. r
bottled. I
Earthen ware in crates, alerted I w jjj c |
For Sale by they 1
SIMON WALKER,
Pine near cth street. |
October lg. eo.tf. I no ,
LANDING, ~
From on board the Brig Amiable Matilda, Of X
Richard Stites, Mailer, from Cape th
Nichola Mole. I St
»3 Baits Socks ani Flaunel Drawers "1 Srj cn\ A.
18 Do. Gaiters 5' o 1
2 Do. Rugs J on *• ="
I Do. lliTre Sacks r =' § I"\T/
1 Do. Flannel Trowftrs | 2 5* EJ I VV
4 Do. Tents, J n g j Court
Also just Imported, ' I
In the Ship Chesapeake, Captain W.bb, 'f.m
Liverpool, S ( I hj[(j
. 147 Crates of Queen's Ware, J next,
Affortcd particularly toTuit the Weft-India P L lea *'
Market—For Sale by I !^ c C<
' I place '
Thomas b* John Kctland.
November 7 $ I
Hories to
HORSES will be taken in to winter at Pus-I
Hill, at the 12 Mil# Stone, on the f
Bristol road ; they will be well fed with clever I
and tinisthy hay, well littered and cleaned, and I
will also have a large field to eiej-cife themselves Emir,
in when the weather is good—E«"l)uire of Mr. I to hi.
William Bell, merchant, Watet flreet, or on the I and
pCcmTfcs« I Qy
■ NOT - 1 wftf i;
EDUCATION. Uy
Moon, jun'rs School, p ' ofe( |
IN CHURCH ALLEY, C ,! ty ot
IS open again, for in(ln>aing Girl, in Reading J '
Writing, Arithmetic, Grammar, Geography,' I Co ? m
including ihe Elements of Geometry, and the' use' I .
of the Globes.—From the great encouragement he I P evl
l.a» hitherto received, he refpeclfuiiy solicits a con- ? OU S , 'I
rinuantc of the favours of his Friends and the I 10ed 2
Public. ti«e, b
O An Evening School,
For B 0 r s—Kept at the fame place, it a lo^
unto. 6tL,'£3 J»W4W I novt
* rz ~.; *** The Offices of Government j
e aiw are tQ remove j f rom Trenton to
the City on l hurfday next.
ment of The Custom House is re
movedfrom Chester to the City, and
is again opened at the usual place. [
» , November j c
i per A— i
ence, %* The Consignees of Goods ,c
' on board the (hip Chmmibcs, capt. Wood, from
le from l.iverpi 01, are renuefted to fend their permtt* en
from board, as (be will commence dilchargicg on Thurf- '
day ne*t at Latimer's wharf. c
Nov. 7, 1-98. n
ms Jor f 1 -1 , jj
office j b
inz cal- of the State of Pennsylvania is removed
chintz t0 the f° ut b-eaft corner of Second and
Walnut streets.
a "' y ° f NOV.J. ' dlw n
pocket The Insurance Office of a
SHOEMAKER BERRETT, »
' . r » I P lm opened at ne. 19 north Water street— At.
tendance wtll also be given at their room at the r
'A Or! c °Be e - h °nft as usual, from 11 'till 2 o'clock f
W-" J
[bawls. _ REMOVAL. P
'UBSCRIPERs h?veremov#d their Office lai
ireraim from the corner .Street, to their former a b
Counting House, No. 2i , Penn Srreet.
tmuf killings &P Francis. 5o
November 3 $
TAYLOR, -
MUSIC PR
! NO. 96, north StXTH-ITaajT,
eft R ESI'ECrFULLY informs the Public that '^l
IV he continues to teach Ladies the Piano h
> Si Forte as usual.
.m Nov - (>• tuthia f
TO BE LET
And immediate pojfejjion given, fur
A LARGE convenient, w«il finifhej house, Ire
No. »! <-, High flreet, lately occupied by lov
DoSor Wiftar, with coach ht>ufe and flable® 1
ian Enquire of WILLIAM SHEAF.F.
No* 168, High street.
Nov - »• dtf
01 To Let,
And. immediate poffejfton Given,
A COMMODIOUSThreeStory Brick House r
■L V with convenient back buildings, filiated
Ibo res I* Ue norrtl corner of Th*d and Walnut
otton ltrtels -—For terms apply to
Dr. THOMAS PARKE.
,o " en No. to, South Fourth Street.
dcloher 19 dtf
TO BK RENI'ED,
" cn . (4nd immediate pvJMon given,)
" A AKGE thre ® stor y BRICK HOUSE, I
zna- 'nVValnut-ftreet—The rooms are
commodious, airy and private—from which,and I j
lefias !\ s f cmril position, it is thought to be an eligi- I
Irish hkfituatton for a Public Office. For terms, en- n
quire ot BENJ. W. MORRIS.
'hi"- , A commodte-.is Ware House, iu Tav- I
lor's Ailey. 7 I
eft'' oaober »9- jtawaw
eck, ~ ~~~NOTICE. ~
.aces QAMUEL RICHARDET, informs the GentU- I
U men Subfcribcrs, that tht E XCH A N G E I
binj II { °' lh r rece P-' ,on i and the C/T r I
ri f J f Ge " tl<men and Tnvellets x
■"ds '; sriP S a <Ji'ed an addition of twtlve Bed r „ .
ns Cha >"iff» to 'he fide building, which make, it rV
ton- I convenient. I toll °
november 6 I
~YT - L®n<
fori Virginia Tobacco,
i Twenty four hogQicads, old, and of an excellent Fate
I quality, ]\
* FOR SALE BY
James Murland,
, 0 f „ „ r No. 97, south Front flreet.
Ia I N l B — 1 few t> o «s of LINEN CHECKS, and ps
I"f° r rentT ent °* B ® OTS and shoes, which win
I bclold cheap apply b» above,
nov - 7 I TI
I i | flodtr I
To the Creditors " i Hg c !
j Of Will'm M'Clelland, of Northumberlaad ia ' h<
8 ' I County, in the State of Pennsylvania. wh ~
to | TAKE NOTICE,
I 'T'HAT I have applied to the Judges ofthe Court I N0.3
I 1 ol Common Pleas, in and for the County «f J 13,
I Northumberland, for the benefit of the several laws I
Jof Pennsylvania, pal Ted foi the relief of Insolvent I o<£
I Debtors; and the Judges of the said Co*rt have ap-
r pointed the Thirtieth day of November inft. it be- I
ing the Friday of the couri ef Common Pleas for I _ _ .
*• I the County of Northumberland, to heai me and I \A/
my Creditors at the Court House in Sunbury, at L 1
I which time and place my Creditors may attend if I ,
they think proper. 7 m£Dd;
Wm. Mc. CLELAND. vencri
J Northumberlaad, November 1, 1798. I
_| november 7. lawjw To
The Creditors I -," 0T
a, Of William Steedman and John Smith, 6f I
the County of Northumberland, in the I
State of Pennsylvania, lately trading un
? I der the Firm of I EX
Steedman fcf Smith, l At
- AX/' I u LTAKENOT,CE ' the 'ubferibers
? L. c.* a PP licati#n to the Judges of the I 0«,
- I Court of Common Pleas for the County of Nor- I ' * i!
thimberlind aforefaid.for he benefit ofthe several At
laws of the State of Peanfylvaah' pasTed for the iatT o f'
rehefof mfolv«.nt Bebt.r s ,a B d that the said Court
hath appointed the Thirtieth dty of November
next being the Friday of the Court erf Common £e r'q
Pleas, to h.ar usand our Creditor, a , Sunbury, in phiW
the County ot NorjhuniberUnd, at which time aad
pl»ce you may attend if you think proper. r,
WILLIAM STEEDMAN.
JOHN SMITH.
"I Northuniberlaß4, November 1, tjog
[ -■ novcmb "7 rawjw
C JOHN SHIELDS, " ~ m
d| P' R. OKE R ( Woven,
Embraces this to present hij thank, CarUr
'I n J feUow-cdizens for their pa/l fa-vor,
C I "rl m tbat **" re turned from Wil
Chefnut-rtu. to his former refijencc the e JA
House No. tl Cbefnut between Front J
I ami Secolid-ftreet,
I he holds h'mftlf readv to execute A 1
Drofpflif n l l C T min , d ' l" br ' ,nch 0f h" w °uld ;
» dtv of , c'„ i 4• f '°T- 1 refideHc e >n this of lady"
then ,llin r r - ii n power to render er to a
I them effcntial ferviee, afKinng them that his A goo<
■ j commiluon (hall be as lew as any in Town. ol
: 'lof r l " Ho " fcs ' VelTels, Certificates For P ar
, of every defenption and B : lla of Enhance this Ga
bought and fold, tbedoeketts carefully exarr- oa °
, toed and clear titles made upon the Ihorteft no- /
1 ti«e, by the public s humble servant, .
I r-v C .1 -V, y°hn Shields. Fever'"
«ft • nfgotlab , le Not " difcounled ed '
(it a low premium. 8 .
novewher 7 , owner i
1 Nov.
L/ » K >.
Into I Dr. Yeatman's
1 Prefervative and
j - ( anti-bilious Pills,
> r £- I \RE earnellly recommended at this Season,
, and ' L\. ?gainft the Fevers that prevail. Prepared
and fold only by the Subscriber, who feels it ne- j
" cefTary to embrace this opportunity of acquaint-
J ing the Public, thst he received areguUredu
j Lcation in the different Branches of
Physick, Surgery, & Midwifery, i
>it» en Under his Father, and other eminent men in e
Ihurf- the cities of London and Bristol, and (in the '
cpurfe of twenty-eight years) has seen the ma- 1
t ny good effects of this incoirparable medicine, a
■, in Bilious, Jaundice, or Hepatic cases, Droply 1
j Rheumatism, Lues-Venerea, Sctirvy, Worm ca- v
■ ! fes? Malignant and other Difeafet, proceeding
• from and obflruillon.
and THE PILLS ?
Are prepared according to true medical prin- ft
w elplej, and may be fafely taken by the mofl de- hi
licate In boxes <f a quarter dollar, and half v
a dollar, with directions, fea'ed with his
crest, cypher, ahd motto. None elfc are Ge- bo
1 , nuine. Lr
-<y- N. B, The anti-pestilential pre- t T
<■ tl.e WJ , u | cc i wth gftat s ucce s s a , L nn . £
w don, Varleilles, Bristol, and other Cities,
when they were rifpeflively visited with the
~ PLAGUE. ar ,
/In bottles of a quarter dollar and half i dal- ,'ni
Wee lar, with Directions, and the Corks sealed as
n-mer above.
Charletojt Yeatma.v. A
SouthEaftcornerofLpmbard and Second ftrcets,
_j_ New Manet.
oflober i , aw . tu | \
DAV}D M. SHIELDS, •«
At the Stori A'o. 23 Chefout-ftreet. rei
that B'S* l eave "> '"form bis friends cujlomers that tlO .
'iano he . bas removed bis go.ods from Chefnut-Hill, I "
&is now ready to accommodate them with, 1
j a OARSE and fine white, red & green Baizes
s —Coarse and fine white Flan- 1 w j.
Nells from afid, to fj. a yard He experts aj ; m
further fupplyby thefirft arrivals from Scotland, du
">ufe, Ireland and England, and is determined to fell thi
I by low for Cash or a short credit. or
nov 7 j 3awtf j lru
' FOR SALE; -
tf By the Subscribers, §£
The Car go \7,
,use r • % ths /\'P Loiufd,
ited Captain Lhamplin from St. Petersburg, J9 t<
I I CONSISTING or I 1.
HEMP and BAR IRON. "
j pro
ect. j In the Jhip Difpalch, ' : i
I Captain Benners, from Hamburg,
15 boxes Linens,
and a quantity of j _^ s
J Sheathing Copper, ftu;
arc I ' ing
I gt I the remainder of Jhip Rich- I jj r u^
en-1 mood's CARGO, from Calcutta,
j containing a variety of
,y " Coarse and fine Muslins, rho
and an elegant alTortment of j
I Madras Handkerchiefs. No.
I Mordecai Lewis.
;E I Phn»delp)»ia,noT. 7 d 3 w Gee
~f_ j Notice is hereby gfven, c
l-j j THAT appliwtion will be made 10 the Treafii- |
• I 01 United States, for the renewal of the 1 ■
folioaing Certificate . of Six Pci Cent Funded
Stock, fianding in the flame of John Carbotitll, of
I London, the faij Certificates having been loft on |
board the Swallow Packet, Captain Kidd. from
, nt Falmouth to New-York. |
Ae. 3072 1 Cert, -for 2000 dolls. "I j c9n
2964 1 do. 5000 i J ;ht
10 >577 1 do. 3000 J J Join
I Willings & Francis. I 9
nd I Philadelphia, aaguft 30. e o6w J
i! 1 Notice is hereby given, (bar
I THAT application will be made to die treasury I nam
_ of the United States for the renewal of the follow- | No.
i»g certificates of Gx per cents, funded debts, fland- I forw
id I IH name of June GaVrielle Rigaud t of Geneva, j Con
I which were loft from on board the Swallow PaU:- | \ r ev
I et, Capt. Kidd, from Falmouth to New-York. I p rer
Ikt _ _ Soils. I ,cnc
rc I No.3tps.Reg. office IpthMay '95, icert. for iocc i « lrl i
•f I do. 14th do. do. I do. for 3500 I M i.
Killings Ssf Francis.
Nt o<aober a 4. eod6w. J F]
H Cook Wanted.
ij I IXTANTED, by a small regular family, a wo- J «
it L i r n)an co °k. who is a thorough millre<s of I A
. f ncr oufinc& and can produce fatisfadbory recom.
I T r - at '-° n ' P er^cn answering the above | fcribi
I Oolcrxption, will meet with conltant amplay and I me n,
I wages. Application to be made at th» I bo
I oUice of this gaaette. I ing j
_ I To save trouble, no Irifli woman need apply. j aged
I — l !* OV- I mer ']
f Printing Work,
! Of Every Kind, " JCi
I EXECUTED AT THE SHORTEST I wce "
NOTICE, them
At the Office tf the Gazette of the I
' I KnitedStates, * I Sol
! oa -»3- dtf.
i A LL - ft 11 ? 50 / 16 havin « aa >' demands a
-1 5 a , inft ! he eftate . of wuh**, p„ kint , a CCCjfedi TC
I late of tht city of Philadelphia. Tavern keeper are I WIW
re,uefied to fumilh the ."account, propedyau! . W,!
thenticated, and all perfonk indebted to said ettate mi IT
PhiSlphiif W makc *P aj ' me " t to the fubferiber in
oa £ EVI HOLLI NGSWORTH Adminr.
October 31 It, 1798. I
female Education.
James A. Neal's School, Los
FOR THF TUITION OF On M(
TOUNG LADIES, Sam «'
Will rc-commenct on Monday, the 12th of Gcrm ~
* sM
c?The Evening School
."u,Jol
November 3
A young woman from England", in th,
would wilh to engage with a lady in th? capacitv future
of lady s-maid, or m the Ctuation of « fcoafe keen
A t ln/ en ' eel fin,,l 7' ° r t0 a fv S lc gcntl««ianZ „ M ar
A good recommendation can be procured fr«m
some of the most refjeilable familS in cUy ZZ,
6D<lUire " the P offi « ° "bufinef
Odlober 31. ternw,
f ■ —-z-i —n —n c *^ t mericai
LAMPBLACK. the;r c
A quantity ofLawpblaf 1c was left during the men ' ol
Fever, at the Ofißct of the Gazette of the Unit- not b °
ed States,—supposed through milUke. Tbe a ? y . p: "
owner i> requested to caU and rake it awav f
Nov. 3. /* In ' ei
v I june
Forty Dollars Reward* ,
FOR APPREHENDING
AZEUTLEMAN NEGRO,
!afon, XJYime Geo*ci or Giorqe Parkir, the
pared P[ erty of the fubferi' er, who has thought
it ne prcpetn the night of the Jift inft. to elops from
jaii t- $ mier without any provocation or just cause ;
. c j u hi wafcrmerly the property of 8.-cltwith Butler,
esq. ai lived a considerable time with
Pottena-.whoiept tavern in Fredcrickbarjf.hsving
y, seen nch company and travelled with several
en in gentler.* through different parti of this (late, h{
n the is mnclkno,wn. It is therefore conjeiiured he
; ma- pu for some of the northern cities or towns ,
j 4 .; nf ( as hehidifcovered ai toplantation work,
•opfy 'houghie may perhaps have crofll-d the ridge 1
m ca- "''"re " has a brother belonging to major BuMer. j
dine ThufeMow is about five feet seven inch s high,
" well proportioned and walks ailive and briflc, his
countejante' ij open and agreeab'e enough wbea
in good humour ; he can hardly be l'arpaft in
3rin- IbrfViin ii, and is a very c pable wa:ti«g-man,
I de- hoife Icrvant, b«rbcr, &c. To describe liis dress
half vould be ufejef., he poffeJTed a variety of clothes,
his -hrugh when JrefTed lately, he vore a green coat
Q e . bound with white ferreting and fpotteJ jacket and
breeches. Whoever brings him home or secures
ire . in g° al in this or any other state the fiid (l ive, so
I may get him again, (hall have the above re
ward. ALEXANDER. VASS.
[les i Fa'mouth, OS. 23,
'he N. B.—Mailers of velfelsand Stage Drivers
are requested to beware of fuiTering said fellow to
Jol- .'maofeon them by alliftinghis escape. A. V.
las November 3 »&f.4iv
A French Classical Si? Matfjvmatical
ets > SCHOOL."
II W/" !f Lbe opened on Monday the a»d. instant
I V V at that largi commodious room formerly
I occupied by Mr. Leo in Norris's Alley, No. 15,
j neurly oppofitc the City Tavern 5 unlet the direc
at tion oi Meflrs. Snd:h and Chandler both of libe-
Ural education, and long experienced ill their n>
' I fpeflive proitflions—As they intend under, the
i'zes i' at ' ona - e of a <!ifcerring public, permanently
I to eflablifh themlelves in thi- undertaking, their
an " j whole study an.l a-.tention wd! be d.-voted to the
9 * imprcvement ef their pupils—l hele will be son-
upon the latest cni mpft approved plans,
lell through a complete course of academical iludits,
or tl.ofc farts only that maybe pointed ajore
£ I "n ; nedia;cly adapted to tbeirparticularviews in life
—■Certain portions of their time will he assigned for
I jrcugraphj .hilUry, extraAs, composition, and -de
clamations in French and Engliih, ia order to form
I early hibits of writing atJ speaking with propri-
I ety—Vifits from and iitcrarv charaAers,
I tending to excite a spirit oi c.nu'atios, will be
gratefslly r.ceivcd. Tnehcfurs of liudy are from
h j 9t012a. M. and from itos P. M.
j 1 hey t,ffcr to tranflatethe Englifti.French.Spanini
an. Portuguese languages; and to draw ia cheir
projvr ni. and Oile, all kinds of writii>|, wJic-
J th°r iCgal, commercial, or epillolary.
| Monday in Xjvember, they also pro-
I pone to open an evening school for French, aook
keeping, surveying and navigation, of which they
J have a praflical as well as theoretical know , dje.
J As a of French gentlemen will attend, the
1 uu.lents of their language, by continually coqverf
j ing with them, as well as their teachers, will ac
-1 quire, alon,; with the principle*, a facility of ex
prtflion.
AVIS aux FRANCOIS :
I Mefl'rs Chandler et Smith out
1 hsnneuf prsyemr M.M. lee Francois, quils fc
j propofent c'et iblir une Academie en Norri* alley, {
No. 15; prefque vi<-a-vis la Bourse ; dans la- 1
quelle on enfeignera la langue Latine, Angloife et I
I Fraucaife : l'Arithinetique, la tenue des livres, la |
_ Oeographie, et les Mathematiques.
j On lait au.Ti routes fortes de tradu&ions danslcs
. f dates langucs: et dannelecons chez les particuliers. 1
Qu'on f'addrelfe a l'hotel de Mr. Vallate au I
I coin dc 4tne .rue et Chm r ailsy
ef Oaober 17. • oodtf
m I To Let, I
j T'TF hou<e 3 No. 78, North Se- ;
I r*ni ftr:ct, kitirof without a ftoje and ftabl:— '
I .he bouse is large ana convsnic.it ; enquire of '
I John I.ttle, No. 40, North (ixth Hreet.
I_ ° ohgr 31- w&fa tf '■
-J Whereas the certificate of two <
j (hares of the Ban!; ol ihe United Slates in the '
y 1 name of Saoiue! Aniory, of London, banker, 1
3-iß»,iirued in lieu of ir.uj, 11594,.were <
1- I TTwarded f.-em Lon.ipn by the B-itifh packet
a, I Coflntefs, of Leicester, capt. Dodd, bound for
- I Nt w-lcrk, -whicb. packet W2S captured by the c
I 11 erch, and ;he fai?l certificate loft ; and for the 1
c „ " e , wal I,;ch .- application is made at said '
j Dins, and ad perlons Concerned are desired to c
I take notice. 1
F . z CLEMENT BIDDLE. '
Fhila. Odl. >6, IJ9B. eo6w
I Eight Dollars Reward. r
,f A JOBBERY was committed on f
* L t . kc '7 th instant, at the house of the sub- P
e fcrucr in the tewnihip of solehury by two negro u
1 me "'~ tbc >" " rn -J a quantity of calh ; a Mck- p
, et boot, containing some valuable papers: wear- tl
I in g apparel, &c —One »f the negroes is a midHle
I aged man, known by the name of John White for- /
merly a rejident of Philadelphia, ha, an impedi- n
- r nient m bis speech—the other supposed to be ft
j a r run about "ghtecn years «f age, of „
los middle Hature. Whoever fecurcs the aforefaid ,
] V |ns ' hat ma y he broughr to juflice, shall r„
receive eight dollars reward, or four for either of
I them taken leparately. . c
„ , , ISArAH TUOKEMONFY.
Solcbury. 10 Mo. r 9 th, 1798. D-jt.law
! JN APPRENTICE ol
«T-?, T HE print JNG BUSINESS w
VVUI be taken at this Office, if s<
immediate application be made /
. Nov 't" 6t K
Bank of the United States. m
T"! ~ Philadelphia, Septamber ar, 170J8. th
Ihe public is hereby informed, that w
an Office of Depolit and Discount will bf A V!
?n Monday , Jt, at the houftT. C bv T
Samuei. near the ® CC b T w;
tT-r Mhfle the bufirv:fs o( this inftiti" ri(
the ma'llnlnt f' faa<:d tfa! "'"inuance o. ke
r. KUHJ -"«5 f;
m th, SADDLING BUSINESS wV K ! P rei
future •fftiedon nnder the firm of W '" ca
HAINES (s* J ONES Dc
above the ,$j
to h,pe) th,ttheir'attentim, y an P d e k" me ! ( V
bufinefj, th-.ir determination^^Sfjn"' Co
term*, and their knows attachment - 1
mencausto the Government an r \
their Country, will entitle them to^ ,tUt, ° n «
mentof a generous public A]i ' ' V,£
rrt
jane 1,6. 01
tuthstf in'
1
t!)is ®ap's ai( .
s Th! A F L r M ™s' fcvOTbe " ! -
■om * , er and Hero of on« r
fe; IwAsHI NG To N I
S ; good, left the City
™ ; morning, and is expend T~
X V*+ »m P J°, T 0 J W °. ,h »
he tt ' crs > horse and foot, and oth voluis
»! have gone forth to
gh .ineirjoy at once more bchoW '7
hi , ounder and prefervcr of our Count™'
t rt y and Independence.
rcf) PORTLAND, Oftobet 2q
ies, _ y
and r\ rr.. illainy.
On Thursday night fa ft, an attemni
,fo to burn a large (lore „ " i ? pt
re- Fox, situated in the enure of tl Mrs "
• part of which on the g ou n d fl tOWf "' ° n '
pied by Mr. Butler J X Z , '''' ° cc »-
■l: Book Binder ' s stop, another
ted to one Henry Hum Jif L ren *
/*»<!« „ f B„«„, „; "■
- and the chamber is the ' ftor f.
■a/ Meflrs. Rand and Buik 7, cf
hours of twelve and one, M 'r. ButC'd/ 1 *
vered that a fire had burnt through
rly tition, which separated his auarm - pw "
«5. Hunt's. The cry of fire was i'm V"* 1
instantly alarmed. Fortanately til °
:h c was remarkably dill, and bv the tim,l v W '" d
2 ed°. r3 c,tlZ£ " 8 ' (he fire wai "43:
>n- tar ?" ckit a » d a P 'il with tar t„ I, .
nSr gether with other comb„ftibl«, such ' 'fc°'
v.ngs, tarred rag gi &c . Wfcre
»rc in (eve. *1 parts *f theffort.t ort . arid f ev J f, Ctd
£ were covered with tar. A puce ri 1 "
te- " as r alfo f «" ,d before 'the g I 4 f s ° th
. m the frcut door. ° oV{ r
ri. When tlie fire was firft discovered ,U
rs, doors and widows were all fecun> , ' , e
£ from without could poffiblvh'
entered, .mlefs with a key Circumft
LOl eonfldered led to a suspicion that Hunfe
.-,r felt was (he guilty person. Hew?-;
» d; " d l :h - r = f '«»i«ni Mot ,i« o r*
not day ea.mmed before j ot| ' ,
$ r:hiSet Mo ' ~ot,h!p' '«-; «
be were iniLd ia aff
c " fnThe ft' W fIVC thoufa,,cl dol '»rs Wo.th
x _ ntbe store. However, (he ,~oods found
there tfere to a very small amount. He al.
that the tar-backet was hi, as
lt he had picked u up several days before on
fc P s » ? nd car "«d it into the (tore. The
y. "''fj'"' {ka . rt * as so firong against l' m ,
a. thai he was ordered by the Court to give
ct bond for 5000 dollars, and h..d find fecuri.
ty for 50°° more, or be committed to pri
es too. Not biing able to 'si ,d bail, he Hand.
r> cornmitted for trial at the Snp eme Court
iu to be hOiden in this town in July next
_ BOSTON, November 1.
The partizan* of France are challenged !»
(hew cue i.nft.ance of a nation gettine libdtv ko
allowing anothu; nation .to intermeddle and to
_ Mate ,n itsaffair,. ] nd ependcn,-e ha, been of"
of ten loft in this way. but when was liberty Drc
ftrved by it. One might a 3 well , aHt P the
• ruedoai of a jail, lhe pretence therefore of
- the French that they offer this bleff.ng , 0 everv
O other people and flat,, is the grossest impaftare
,e i r eU CV ® r Wa * whatever
r, <,o(^or Logan and Vice Mazzei may lay to the
re contrary; 7 ; c
ft
,r thedefpotsot France were (incere in their
)e oners ot peace, what would they do » Thev
le would acknowledge that they we.e much i, t h^
id wrong when they insulted USj andrefufedtore
;a ceive our mmifters of peace ; they would pro
r Jl lhey had robbed of. with
i eajonable-allowance tor our damages and losses •
and this they would engage and give security to
r i" Cy u ' ou do j ulllce when they profefsto
refpefl it, and finally they would take care to
prevent the repetition of injuries by difarmine
a their pirates >nd punilhing thofewho hive whin,
i- ped, murdered and robbed our citiarens It
o would be required by us that reparation fliould
- prove thefincenty of their sorrow for the wrone.
fchey have done us.
e If France is insincere, and means tD make
- Americans dupes, by a lullably offer of a new
- negociation, what would lhe do. Exaifllywhat
e the .. said to be doing. Give good words, to
turn away eurjutt wrath ; when that is allayed
under the matk of iriendlhip, renew the old
Icheme to divide and govern. We deferv'e
chains if we accept thsm again.
r '1 he Irish pitriots, after having set their own
- country entire, are running away by the light
of it, as wharf rats are said lo flee in troops
from one haufc where they have been baited
With rats bane, to another where they smell
good provisions ; and it feemi to be the unlucky
fame of America to be the home, the Jerufaiem,
tor runaways. What fort of society (hall w®
have -ho v (ball we be made up by the tim«
that diftrailed Europe gets fettled. All that
other States throw away we are to take, and fay '
. thank you. Their offal is to be our aliment.—
We are tofwellour pt pulatiou with the four lea
ven of Ireland, and the caustic spirit of France,
The witches cauldron, in the play of Macbeth,
was not filled with worfc ingredients Iban Ame
rica will be. Surely we need a Sedition lav to
keep our own rogues from cutting our throats,
snd an Alien law to prevent the iavafion hr a
hf.fl of foreign rogues to a (Tift them. Th# ir
ruption of the Goths and Vandals into the Ro
man Empire did not more seriously threaten it*
overthrow than the terrible preference all fo
rtign incendiaries indulge for our happy coun
try ; it lorebodes confulien and whitky irifur
reaion. France and Great Britain use Ameri
ca very I'curvily when they presume to make it a
Botany Bay for their convifis. a bettering house
for their knaves, and a bedlam for mad peeple.
The New-England states will hang tome of
rhem, and others Pennfylvank will feed to
Congreti.
It feenr\s as if America was already a di
vided people. The jacobin party has iti
ttnnifter in Paris, and ht is accredited by the
direftory ; probably inftcad of paying for
that houor, lie has iponey to take, and some
of it may be employed perhsp* to pay Ly
en's tine. As the p»rty thus exercise tht
*•.y » i
ptruers of lovpmgrty, it is. c» .tat; cx,p Ard
they will proclaim a S niCtflotle Indepen
dence. as fnori as rhe French ■ fle-1 can find ,
leisure t" tr»»fp)»rt Vftor Hugb-t' black Tons
of iibirty ani rg'.ajity, !o aid the cause of
Littity in tilt* ffiuthern dates.
* '
r| he zeal; d'fperation and energy of the
jacobins is ever greatest, when they are mod
in Late eve at?, far from convert
ing thtm have (harper.ed their paflions into
ten fold rage They long to retaliate upon
Honest men, friends of government, the con
tempt hat blisters add scalds their own re
putations. The common of all
jdeobius too unites them the more closely
together, and gives to the party the power
of a&ing in mass. To despise the force of
one's enemy is ever deemed unwise and rafl«.
Let Federalip look to it, that the foes of
all good order do not profit by their lu
pineuefs at the election. With a jacobin
congress, eur liberty and independence
would not live to celebrate another fourth
of July.
American spirit is much admired in Eu
rope ; and It has done more to Jifgrace tiie <
mock rrpublicanifm of the French, than any I
event fir.ee that bloody revolution began its, 1
work of dca-h. If however Talleyrand's 1
lullaby, jhould firft disarm, and then divide
the pc; pie, Europeans will fay. prrhaps we 1
are not cowards but furelywe .re fools —
The very fame game was played by France
against Switzerland. France encroached,
and when (he Swi.fs resented it (he conceded. 1
Then lulled them asleep again, encroached '
ence more, hired a party in their public
Councils, such a partv as (hehas in Congress,
and then Switzerland waked up, bleeding,
plundued and in chai s. Talleyrand is like
a cat, he retires f*'m the hole to e cut
rage the mouse to c .me out, x:;d already he
arranges his bloody paws to spring upon us.
There is a vagabond Ir'i/hm-.n, or Scotch
man, in the third parifli of D.dman, who
has flirted i.p a few ignorant people to er
a liberty pole, with a painted board, and j
the words Liberty, Equality, no Stamp aS, j
no Sedition or Alien bill, downfall to tyranny |
of America, peace and retirement, long live the
Vice Prrjident and minority—may moral vir
tue be the basis of civil Government.
Mary of the justices of the peace, on their
way to attend the felfions, had opportunity
to behold this standard of infiirre&ion a
gainst the laws and magillracy of the
country.
Arming our country has not kindled the
open anger of France, and produced that
dreadful war the croaking jacobins forebod.
ed. On rhe contrary, it has foftened our
ci-devant ally, while cur coaxing, and tears
ami fybmiflions did but irritate her. O, the
depth O ! the bread'h of the wifd~ of a
Roxbury town mating. Sneaking wruid
not, dear General, have left us a (ingle (hip
by th.sday. Self defence haft fav?d hun
dreds. As experience har thus dtlgraced the
councils, of the jacobm town meetings let
the demagogues who llirred them up to ad- ,
vise Congress, become modest in future. ,
Better councils were Lllowed and we may
yet save our country, if these fame dema
gogues will let government defend it ft It and
ns from the lyinjf offers of peace that Tal
leyrand si Is the i.twfpapers with, and from
their agents to divide and ei.flave us.
_
NORFOLK, November i.
Arrived yellerrfay the schooner Regula-'
tor, capt. Forfych, from Antigua, failed i
iil company with the br g Venue, of Anti
gua, and armed brig Lion, bound fcr New-!
York. Oct. 7, in lat. 21,15 ' 0: g- 64, 00. !
fell in with a French privateer brig mount- j
nig 16 guns, who bore down uprin the fchr
Regulator, fired l'everal bow guns to bring
capt. F. too, hauled under trrf darn, haded
ftie and ordered me to heave too, but find
ing the ahead to lay t>y for me, he
cbntinued his course to the Call ward. The
barque John and Jane, Belden, of Balti- j
friofe, failed in company for Turks-Island, ]
but parted rtiortly after coming out.
Lijl cf American vcjels at Antigua, 03. stb. '
3chr. Hannah Smith, Fredericfburg, 27 '
days paiTage. Schr. Providence, Preash- ,
erd, do. Schr. Diaha, Wood, Bedford,
Schr. William and Henjy, Terry, New
turn. S'oop ClarnTa, Baley, Providence.
Brig Ann, Fcrgufon, Wiridfor. Brig Bet
sey, Bacon, Boston, and a (loop from Ca
rolina, name unknown. 1
t
One of the late French papers relates the
following anecdote " Citizen Cailla-d, 5
the French ambafladorat Berlin, before the
arrival ofSieyes, had been invited to court
with great etiquette. After dinner a pack
of cards wasprefcnfcd to the coufnt de Gortz
governor of Berlin, in OTder to make a par
ty wi'h the French minister. Th: Prtifltan
knoA> ing it wasintended he (hotald play with
Caillard, had the info'ence to fay to the
chamberlain of the court, loud enough for
the ki-g to hear him-" Sir, Ido not play 3
w.ih a Plebeian." The king ioSantly said
to lum, " my dear Gortz, your carria/e is
in waiting for you below ; I shall get ano
ther officer to finilh the party." Gortz
was obliged to retire at the instant.
TRENTON, Noveoib'yj. 4
Entertainment of General Pinckney.
Or, Friday 1 iil an elegant entertainment
was given by the inhabitants of the city and
vicinity, in hrnor of this their much eileem- '
ed and rrfpedted fellow-citizen, and tfpeci
ally in teken of their high approbation of
hii patriotic and independent condud in die
lare million to Fiance.
At three o'clock Jie was waited on, at
his lodging, by a committee of citizens,
iippoiuted for the 1 urpofe, and conducted,
iij£cthcr with the Heads of departments of tl
the general government,, who attended l.im, p
to City Hotel, where Ire was received rt
' . ' • ' * • *"
J hy the My. yTtli. city, aJ intrjdaced -
1- to the company.
d After partaking of a fumttious dinner,
is the follou in ; Toalls wtredriik.
)f t. The Prefnlent, thtj roc of our poli
tical salvation : M y his patritifm and pru
dence be rewarded bv the aflttionate fup
le port of the w'hole Union.
(I. 2. The frien's of adminifration in Con
t- grefs; Resignation and rcpntance to its
0 enemies. tl
11 3. The Lieutenant Genral and Com- -
1- rrander in chief of the armieiof the United ;fi
States ; The splendor of tie day star is 1 1)
11 his, and (lowly may he fef, with a fall orb jr<
y of glory. jc;
r 4. The Armies of the United States ;j h
f May their patrintifm, difciplitie and cour- ti
i. age, repel the World in aims, if disposed ,a
f to invade us. a
5. Commodore Barry and the rifiug Nap
n vy of Am.-rica ; May her flag float untar tl
c nilhed, and her crews speak in thunder to c
1 the pirates of the World. n
6. The Militia of the Union, the nurse-;
ly of our armies and bulwark of the nation, j
7. The Volunteer Corps who have ten- j
; dered their services to their country ; May t
r the h art oi each be an altar of pat iotifm, e
s and their arms hurl deftru&iou on their
s foes.
8. The legislature of New-Jersey ; May |
the Hate they repref.'nt Hill deserve the ;
wreath of federahfm, not ungaingled with j
t sprigs of the laurel
, 9. Our Siller States ; May our union i j
. be perpetual, and may we Uvver be divided j
J by French diplomatic lk.it], or the mifrepre- j
; fentatio.'is of their internal enemies.
, 10. Our conflitu'.ion and uur altars ; ,
, May the firft defy ambition and avarice, aiul j ,
e the lift remain tiiifhakst) by tiie new fangled 1
- Sloody philosophy. t
t 11. The Real Supporters of our cxnlli-! ,
. hition, tho friends of ordet an d g O0( i
vernment ; peace, liberty and Independence j
. to tLem ; and may the enemies thereof have ,
a no resting place amang us.
t 12. The memory of the heroes who -
i j have fallen in defence of true liberty and re
!. j h'gion.
y ' 13. American principles ; Amor Patria
e ■ unadulterated with foreign influence, f-ce 1
. from domestic faftion or groundlels difcon- *
tent. I
r 14. The spirit of '76, revived i* '9B ; '
y We were born free, and let us determine I
wish one voice to die so. " 1
e 15. American policy ; Commerce with f
j all na ione, but a permanent alliance with
' no'ie. <
e 16. American Fair ; May their raodefty <
it be the needle that points us to their beau- 1
!, ties, and t eve" may their charms blcfs the <■
ir bosom of a jacobin. 1
1 Tft I ITVT t f II C 1
e 'Bv General PINCKNEY. The date ]
I .of New-Jersey ; May the rank which (he 1
- has aeqiiired iYi virtue, patriotism and mili- '
P tary fame, be perpetual.
•' fter the genera] and th: heads of de- £
e partm rts haif retired. 1
t Major Gen ral PrVCKNEY, our Ute |
- envoy and faithful friend ; The palm of the
• cabinet, has already graced his brow, and
f he comes to (hare the iaurels i>f the field. I
3 cheers.
By the President. The heads of de- •
partments ; with clean hands and pure
II hearts, may they continue to do honor to
j their itation. J
| By the Vice-Prefident. No didionora- |
J ble concelfions to obtain peace, and war be
- fore tribute.
dj By particular desire, the third toad wis '
-1 repeated flsndi'.g, with 3 cheers.
' ; DONATIONS. ~ '
' ' Received at the Tents near Schuylkill for the s
use of the pour. t
November 6.
7231b. of buckwheat meal, 1281b. of (
rye flour, 146 lb. Indian meal, 124 th. of -
e Bacon, 153 Ih. Cheese, 1461b. fat rautton, t
e 5 bulhel potatoes, 4 do. Turnips, j pair of (
(hoes, a quantity of besns, -and 31b. of but- f
» ter, from several of the inhabitants of Eati t
Marlborovgh townlhip, Cheller co Jnty, col- [
letted by Meflrs. Tiicmas Chelfant and Ja
cob Price, anr l foj-warded by them.
4cwt. of buckwhe-t- meal, from Dennis
Wheelcn, Esq. 1
By. order of the Committee. „
PETER MIERCKEN, Chai rtnan. I c
DONATIONS, |
Received by the committee appointed to relieve
thejicl and infirm poor in thi city and suburbs.
November 11 v
iOrty bu n dles of 013 ayl new men's, wo- ii
lien's and children's clothing and blank- ii
ets y.i (hc\s of Indian meal, rewt of n
»ockwhe»t meal, §3. lbs, PcSrfe, onecheefe d
and fomc sweet potatoe , .coilerled by t
Job.Collins, Hannalj Wil'a ami Martha a
Haines, t'ro'm fundr\ inhabitants of 'he v
upper part of the townlhip of Evefham, e
New-Jerfcy and forwarded liy Nehemiah p
Hains.
37 \ cords of wood, 1 barrel " Pork, 50
lbs of Pork, 12 cheese i, 8 pieces of dri- ai
ed Beef, 1 pot of Lard, a sna'! j.arcel of o
do, 9 bufhelsof Potatoes and to buAiels S
of Turnips from the inhabitants of the P
tewndnps of Salem and for
warded by John Wiftar.
49' wt - cheese ; 53 wt. fait meat ; I ewt. is
I qr. 41b. of rye flour ; 2 barrels of beef; it
2J wt. of Indian meal ; and 24 wt. of g 1
butter from the inhabitants of Lower v <
Penns Neek, forwarded by J-.hn Wiftar. 1 d
1 ewt. 2 lb. of rye, and 1 cwtilb. of buck- ti'
wheat meal, from an unknown person at m
Well Nam Mill. ,
By order of the Committee,
EDW. GARRIGUES, President.
Attest, *
P. Barker, Clerk. bt
r> The ()& of the M a y?r of t
the City of ; s held'tor the F<
prefunt at the Stat® House in the Court I
rCOlm Oil. 18. f r j
Xtje
» .
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 8.
End of the Century.
s I cannot agree with Mr. Cobbett, that
the ".latter i:i dispute, is of a trilling nature,
- —since uulefs some decision can be had, — 1
1 fume conviction worked in the mindi of the
a i rtinety-nitie-men, the dispute threatens to
3 j result ir\ very great of dates and
l calculations. As Mr. Cobijett, however,
; j his declared hiinfelf on the occafioti, it is
•- to be hopvd we (hall have some thing ration
d al .offer.-d in support of opinions, which now
I appear like the confufed dreams of a diftem
i- pered imagination, to support which no
> thing has hitherto been offered but mifcoa
) ception, noise and fury, and which induced
me to apply this passage from Horace.
... ; " Credite, P.fonts, illi tabulae foie librurn
( j Perlimilem, aijus, veiul iomnia, van*
| Fiojentur species."
I Which I beg the reader to substitute for
y the imperfect and erroneous quotation iufert
?» ed in Tuesday's Gazette,
ir
It appears that the New-York citizenef*
y like our cinzentfs, has her bully, who hid
ing himfelf behind her petticoats, pours
; forth his calumny in copious streams: This
j is rio other than a renegade Irishman namtd
a ' Burk, a low, drutiken, lying, vagabond
fcoundrel, more loathfiirie and coutempti-"
e " | bie than even Lloyd, Callender or Duane.
! Have these Ladies prepared thcmfelves for
' tht»fe extremities which await them ? It
; would be truly an elegant Embarrat to be
tion oTily, immured in the fame c 11 with ei
thtr of those Beasts •, and, let me tell
I you, Ladies ? this is a cafe in no wife
:e ; impoflible. We have a trap for traitors
rc : which ftiaps thesn ere they are aware. And
' " Tho' the VjTaiu 'fca}>e av,-hi;e, he i-. Cis
10 . Slow vengeance, like 2 Bloodhound, at lis heels."
e-
MR. TENNO,
ie An Editor, eminent for acuterefs of pe
ce netrafion, contends that the Eighteenth
a- Century ends with the year 1709. I pre
tend not to any depth of re earch on this
; fubje£t, altho' it is a topic of fevcral years
ie (landing ; yet I think the decision I have
made on this-poiot inevitable, and resulting
h from very Ample and very obvious principles,
h I will aik, what is a century ? The
complete period of an hundred years, and or
y course not ninety-nine, which wants one of
1- it. To render this period complete, or in
ie other words to campafe this cejitury, the
la ft year and the firft are as essential com
ponent parts as any'mtermediare years ; and
e I will ask if the dogma against wh ch I con-
j e tend does not go to the entire abolition of
I the centurial or hundieth year, which is
no longer the hundredth or clcfing year of
tjie century, upon this principle, but the
commencement or firft year of the new cen
e tury. The following simple course »fnum
e bi rs throws some light on the fubjedt :
1 3 34 —56 —78 —9 —ie —11—u
Here it will be feen r that, though we no
minate an hour not until it has past or gone
_ by, whereas we speak ef a year, while pend
v, '"£• ( a difference founded on custom, but
naturally arising from the.long duration of
the latter) yet in either cafe, and I maintain,
ln every other which can be imagined, nei
ther the firft nor the last member of the
tarm can be difpenftd with, or other wife
dilpofed of, than in the hitherto accustomed
order.
m From the beginning of year 1, to the end
of year 99, is still bin ninety-nine years,
nor can it, I think, .be made out more, by
* a" wit of Mr. Cobbett or all the sophis
try of h s eorrefpondent.
I have something more to offer on the
r fubjeiit, which other occupations preclude
at present ; ar.i which, I have the v.inity
'• to believe, far,aior*d by several unqueflion« .
' ble authorities which will he adduced in
j.' Support of my opinion, rnuft work convic-
I t{ , oa io th e mind of Mr. Cobbett, and all
his cofrefpondents. CERTO.
ELEGANT COMPZ
1S The elegant Flag prefeoted by Mrs.
Wellington, to the Silver Greys of Alex
andria, contalued an Eagle as part of the
device, the talon of which embraced a
strong -likeness of the President of the U
nited Siates.
>e
r. The only interesting article of news with
which this day's mail-furnifhes us, is the
- intelligence of Liemenarrt-Gsiitral Walk
:- ington hawng aaually commenced his jour
if ney hfther. His arrival here, which may
e daily be expe 'ed, will fill the'city with rap
y ture. But it will hare a more important
a and valuable effeft, in giving new life and
e vigor to the Volunteer inflictions, which,
, even now, are the chief hope' of the Em
-11 pire.
) One Luther Baldwin, of Newark, was
. arretted, 011 Saturday la'lt, by the Marshal
f of the iiate of New Jsrfey, under the late
s Sedition aft, for exprr-ffing a wish that the
e President of the United Stat, s was dead.
Sedition, by all the laws of God and man,
. is, and ever has been criminal, and when
; it is not, the laws will be crimes and ma
s giftrates will fwiug. Behold France ! go
r »ernment after govsrnment has been laid
1 down, till the sword cutoff the'tip of Sedi
. tion'B tongue, and since that it has been
mute as a Turk's.
VERMONT.
From V'.rgennes, 03. 26. ;
" Both Houfcs of the Legislature, with <
but fire diff;'ntihg have concurred io
, the amendment nr the Fedtraf Conflitution, 1
proposed by Maffachufettß, for precluding f
Fortignera from a feat in Cosgrefs. This, )
I prelume, Will afford you,ai;d our other I c
friends finccre pleafsre."
-» »■( * 1 1 »
XVIST. Century.
Fr m Mr. Colbett's Gazette.
Mr. Cobbtt,
In your paper cf last Saturday, Mr. T.
VV. has afßrted that " th- motaent Ave be
gan to date 1798, then were 1798 years
pad." I would alk this politive Mr. T. W.
it whether November was past the moment we>
begin to date N. ?—He fays, he
, " could bring forward in support of his af
c fertion many arguments." But he has
0 brought forward none.
Had a tranfadtidn been recorded fix
r months after the comme'i>cemeflt of the firft
century, what year mult it have been dated
in? Certainly in the year one, although that .
year was uot then completed. And if the
firft yeat- wa3 completed on the last of De
) cember io the year one ,as has been obferv-
3 _ ed, the firft hundred years tsuft have been
j completed on the last of December iu the
year ico : and consequently the eighteenth I
century mud be completed on the last of i 1
December, 1800- j'
When Mr. T. W. makes an assertion, he !
> r oug'it to produce some argument to sup j
t- port it ; and when he commen's on the o- '
pinion of others, if he cliufes to do it iu an ~!
unmannerly style, I shall fwppofe it is t at
h which he has been most accuftomcd to.
I" C.
rs 6th 4»y of the nth month, 1798. • i
lis '
id We have lr.ng been boaftiner of the enlight
'd enedEighteenth century : it Will be a curious
■1- proof of our new light, if we (hould not be
e- able to determine when that century ends,
or
It W- are happy to insert the jollo'wing.
c a \ TENTS.
. 'As a procellion has been, rather haft'ly,
announced to -ihe public, as designed to
ife move lom T ents to-day, the Commit-
tee are under the neccflity of informing their
fellow citizens, thai, owißg to unavoidable
delay in providing a fufficiency of cloathing
to equip the whole number of persons un
der their charge, h will lie pottponed, if
not relirquifhed. The season is now far
s ; advanced, and the increase of cold renders
• h it advisable to contradt, as much as possible,
c . the time of their Continuance in a situation
n'j lo exposed to its-inclemency. The Com
r3 mittee, therefore, think it highly probable, i
, e that when the moment shall arrive which I
,g .fees every individual completely clad, their
, s- duty will diftate anj'mmediate dismissal.
le By order of the Committee,
of* PETER MIjgRCKEN, Chairman.
of
j n To Mr. JOSIAH DICKIVSON,
le Steward to the Encampment at Masters'
n- Place.
,d SIR,
THAT happy, period so long and so
0 f anxiously looked for, which do further com- |
j s mands or requires our services or yours, hay- 1
s j- ing now arrived, we cannot in justice to our
Je feelings and your distinguished merit -with
n. hold a public acknowledgment of your em
aiinent and meritorious fervives.—The able
support that you have afforded us, entitles
I 4 you to our warmest thinks and gives you
0 . strong claims on our friendfilip Your hu
„e mane, upright and indefatigable attention to
d. the distressed obje&s under our care has en-
Ht deared you to every individual amongst them
0 f and your name will be long remembered by I
n, every grateful m't/d with veneration and f
■j. fpe£t—Your declining to accept any recuni
,e ary revvatd for your services is an addition
f9 al proof of your virtues.
;c j That a life of such real worth and pub
lic utility as youts mny be long preferred,
,J .is the lincere prayer of yotir friends and j
S) humble servants
,y J"h n Injieep,
s- ;/ona. Robmfon, > Committee.
Isaac IV. Morris,}
, e Novembjr 3.
le -■
Died] —A few dsys ago of the late epi
" • demic at Mr. John Maxwell,
111 late of New-York.
C ( J , on Monday mo.rning, in the 63d
1 vear of her age, Mrs. Dorothy Leib, wi
dow of the late George Leife, Esq.
vid Todd, a youug nwn much esteemed,
s - and whose lols is maeh regretted by his
x * friends and acquaintance.
% , At Newark, the 3d iuft in the
a 16ill year of her age, Miss Sally Ten
J * 3rook ; sincerely regretted.
Also Mr. Joseph Hedden, iged 96 years.
.e oasette Marine
6-
r y Port of Philadelphia.
)■ ARRIVED. ' .
'J Sloop Sally, Potter, Virginia 5 days,
° Sugar and Molasses.
! > Friendfbip, Rigus, from the wreck of
>- the fchr Dispatch, Barry, Irish Linens-
Arrivals at the Fort.
The schooner General White, Myrick,
, 35 days, from Cape Nicola Mole.
The ship Thomas ChalkKy Clark, and
brig American, Forrett, from hence, have
arrived at Surrinam.
S.chooner Johannah Tucktr, Lee, fails
to-morrow for St. Thomas'.
' A large ship below name unknown.
Shif & Insurance Broker,
1 ' I 'HE Sutl'crtber, encouraged by the advice
A of his triends, offers his lervice to r! e j üb
-5 lie as a Ship and Lnfurance Broker. H« p:o
---pofes to bily and fell vcflels and every thing re-
thereto—afiiit mafftis of refTel- andotliirs
iu entering and clearing at the Cufioni House,
procur ng snd fhiftping Freight, fettling Inltii
anef anil al! other miieantil« accounts, £nd iiavt
1 on liand the necefiary Eljnk; n;d
, Fapcrs in iorcign languages trsnflated, and
information given in mercantile matters
' I rom a knowledge gained hy l'>og cxpc .euce
' of every branch ot liuQnels he hopes to be ufe
iful.to thole who pleal'e to favor him ui.li th? ir
co(T'"i27,i!s. t/iMUEL KMF.RT.
H)i!a<!e!jiliij, augi.fi ;.;th, 1 j
! t
! Cjp price cf tills Gazette it
Eight dollars-per anr.um to SubfcrU
bers rcfidiig in the city of ■ PhiladeU
phia. All others pay one dollar ad
dit.onal, for enchfng and dircfiin??
s and unless fomeperfbn in this city •will
. become answerable for the fuhferip*
• tion, it mutt be paid Six Months in
advance.
Uni-v erf itj of Pennfyliania.
c AW 8, i;9B. '
, THE d;fFtr«jit S,koo!s will be opcr.ed on
' | Thursday the ij\b indent. By o'dtr,
J I Wu. ROGERS, Src'y.
I '
'■ Drawing fcf Painting Academy,
NO. 63, WALNUT STREET.
J. cox .
e T) ESPi'.C 1 FULLY informs his patrons and
1 i th; public, that his Aca cmy will be ■ f en
fied on Mid day next, the nth in/taat. Hovir»
; of tuition for /ouug I,allies, from Two till
I Four ; an I an Evening School far Gentlemen
| lVoin Mx till Eight.
J- Cox has made New Additions to his col«
-1 legion of Pictu etq»e Driwi, c<, during H<f'ab«
I fence irom the City, and has likewise procured
t ' lofne haivliome Relief fub;ecfts, forth, in
: ftruilion of his Pupils, in the ioitrine of iight
j aE'l ftuulow.
, ] I *rms of Tllitian, Six Dollar* and a half
; per Quarter.
Ladies and Gentlemen inftrtiflfd in the d'.f
- I fereut branches of Drawing and Painting, at
s j their own apartments.
e I lov 8 sjm&th,;t
Thomas Iff Jo/butt T'/jhcr,
No. 5, Docx-Stxsbt,
HAY t* fcr sale imported in'different VfflWs.
A general nlfirfmerit of ivnrfe & finc'Wos'cn*
' : 7-8 He 4-4 InfliLine;)!, Shse'ings, Tjck-ns &e.
15 Scarlet an.', colored Cardinals
- Ih's in hi.xes of u dozen each
r China, an Keen Dining It :ts and. cups & fauce.rs
e Black Luteftriugs, TilTarys and Sa uiu
T Punsetn Cloths and Huohums, Blue anil Reii
= Cotton, Chapuals and Puliicat Romalls
. China and English Uinbiellas
P Cro-.vley Millingtoii Steel
r Tin in Boxes 1-3 x *
s Shot, Frying Par.s and Weeding How •
td, 8 I, rod, ltd Nails, isc. life.
n ! nth month 8 d2\v
!, i Elliston Joan Perot,
h ; Nave for Sale, at
:r No. 41, North Water-Street,
Mnfcovado Sugar 1 D , T ~ ...
I Contain fleets & nail,®" 1 j» n£ lker.h.«ft
| Copper Ore M«dc.raWi n ,
: Lignum Vitae Lather ,„d
! Sail Caavafs A f w b " reta !)I,ad and
Oznabrigs Herrings
Also For Sale,
° bermuda *packet,
Burthen 108 tons--Bermu •
t- | da built, mounts iiguns, fails remarkably fait
ir and is well found.
1- nov 8 w&f 3 w
'* For Sale,
, 9 At the Merchant's Coffee House, on llldnejdjy
the \Atb in/l. at 7 o'clock in the evening,
ji"— **=• Thefajtfoiling suit,
O fajlmjL CHARLOTTE,
Of about »04 tons burthen,
n : a well found Vessel, hav-
Y ing lately had 4 very compleat repair both in
Hull and Rigging, the inventory may be seen at
. any time previous to the sale by appiying at the
. Au&ion room of
RICHARD FOQI MAN® Co.
nov 8
; *,,* Tile Office ps the Insurance
" j Company of NORT'II-AMERICA,
is again opened at the
'• corner of Walnut and Front-streets.
nov 8 dlw
Sixty Dollars Reward,
- A/r ADE t^lc ' r e^cs P' from the Gaol in thebo
-I*l rough of Lancjfter. ou Saturday evening
» b.n, between jfife hours «f 8 and 9 o'clock, two
French prisoners, pait* of the crtw of La Croya
d | ble.
[. j Xhe one named Ltierrnc Aufin, a native of Bor
j deaux in France, 26 years o"t age, a'.out 5 feet 6
: inches high, dark eyes and complexion, by trade
■' a carpenter, fuppolcd to bi. unacijuainced with the
I, English or German l..nguage. Had ou when h&
s went away, a white hat, pantaloons, and fiiort
jacket, tighc made, and probably took with hira
some ot'ier clothes.
Ihe other named Peter Duprieux, a native of
II Bujoin in France, 20 years of age, about 5 feet 8
inches high, grey eyes, dark complexion, a seaman
>■ by occupation, a dirty ill-icokipelellow. Had on
whsn he went away, a blue faiior's jacket, with
Urge tow trowfers, an old wool hat.lpeaks imper
fect German.
* Also. made his efap': the fame day, about nine
o'clock in the morning, ftom the fime gaol, a ne
gro man named Peter Hujlm, about 5 feet 4 niche*
high, qf a fmilirig countenance, la cly convi4ted of
alclonyin thu county. Haj 011 when hc«<nt
, away, a lo!ig blue coat, a paif of white trowfcrs r
both ragged, and a black bat.
Twenty-five dollars will be paid for apprehend
s ing and securing in any goal, each or eithsr of the
above named Frenchmen, and Teu dollars for the
negro, by
'Chrijlian Carpenter, jun. she' ijf.
» Lancaster, Od. to, 1798 1eo;t
The Subscriber's Office
t Being REMOVED from the C OUNTRY,
is now OBEN at the USUAL PLACE, Ko.
s 56, North Fourth Striet.
SAMWEL CA LriWKf.r.
LANDING,
From on board the brig Amiable Matilda, frcm
Bourdeaux, andforfele by the fubferiber,
S8 calksCL ARE 1'
71 do. do. of a fuperier qaality
1 trunks gfeen PARASOLS.
Thomas Mxirgatroyd,
No. u,"WaJ,iut-ftreet.
WHO HAS 9N HAND,
White Wine in half Caflcs "|
Sweet Oil of a superior quality, in j
boxes and baskets
Lunelle ! Entitlad to
Sauterne / I Drawbaik.
Irish Market >- WINE 3 ia Cases
Macarty and I
Medoc J
Rota Wine in lihds. "
Pimirto in bags. .
Mtf' i
PROPOSALS,
BY THI
Insurance Company qf North Arv erica.
For Insurance againll Fiiii, on D.vclling-
House», Ware-Houses, and other Buildings (and
on Gooi!< contained in such Buildings) did ant from
Philadelphia, in the United States.
I. Commcn lufuraneef, on hazards of the firft
daft, will be undertaken at a promium of ahout
bah per cut, per annijm. For excra Naxardons
rifqnes a larger premium will he required, which
wi!l vaiy accor ling to circumftanceg, fsideai ex
teeding or; per rent, per annum ; but in some in-
Minces, where rhe property insured i* not only in
itfelf extra hszardous, but rendered still more so
by the vicinity of extra hazardous buildings and
occupations, the premium demanded will be raised
according to circumftanees.
Houses and Ware-Houfcs, thew»ll* and peti
tions of wf ic-h are wholly of (lone or trick, well
conllruiSed, so as to b» guarded as well as may be
ageinft fires from w'uhin, and free from extra ha
zardous buildings and <>cccupations in their neigh
borhood, will be deemed hazardous of the firft
claf«, and may he insured to their full valne.
Also Goods and Merchandize, not o an extra
hazardcuE kind, in calks. bales, or paokagM, 4e
pofircd in fli'ch buildings, to an amount rot ex
cee -nig 4000 dollars; but if more than this fun
required to be insured in one tenement, an addi; 1
tional premium wiU ha required, in proportion to
circumstances.
11. Infuranres will also be macfe on buildings ami
gooii- extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to tbo rifque'. But it is "ot e:,fy to arrange these
under pnrncular heads rr cla(Tes, so as to defciibe
each wirhrh' necelTary accuracy. Each cafo mnlt
therefore he decided upon according to the circum
ftancej a tending it ; and these circumflances >vili,
in general, appear frum the ckfcription accompa
nying tleapplication.
Buildings partly conftruiflcd of brick or (lone, ■
r.rc preferable to those wholly wooder. And in
both cases, tiie itile'of building, how they are oc
fup; 1, haw they are situated, the neighboring
buildings, andhow occupied, are considerations to
be taken into view. And with to goods,
rhe:v ttndsncy, whether from their nature, or
from the manner in which they are exposed, either
to com. nee or to increase an accidental fire, and
their liability in such state to receive damage by [
tvet, or by sudden and haf.y removal, or to be fto- c
kn in time of confufion and hurry, are all rir- e
cumflances of weight; atad the premiums mufl kc t
proportioned accordingly. .
111. The following conditiont UPe to be under- ,
flood by the parties. ,
ill. The Insurance is not binding till the ftipu- e
latsd premium be raid ; but it (hall be deem»d ef- v
fedlual irom the time of such payment and accept ''
tance thereof, whether the policy be immediately 0
Cgnedornot, e
2(i. Insurances may be renewed at the expira- 0
tiou of the term of the policy, without further ex- il
penfes than the payment of th« premium of the re
newed term, the eircumftances continuing the fame
as they were utidcrftood by the Infurcrs attfre time "~
the former insurance was made ; but the payment
of t!i« premium is efTential to such renewal; and "]
if the party insured fuffers any time to elapse after
the expiration of the former insurance, before he
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
during such time; nor can the insurance be renew
ed on the former policy but by cotnputfng the
commencement of the renewal from the expiration
of the former insurance. The lubjeil of insur
ance may neVerthclefs be open to treaty for a new
iulr.rar.ee.
3d. If any other insurance be madeon the fame
property ; it mull be made known at the time of
application, orherwife the policy made on such ap
plication will be void.
4th Goods held in trull, or on consignment,
may be insured as such in a separate policy ; but
ths) are not tabe considered as infuted etherwife. of
(th. This company will not be liable or accoun
table for any loss or damage occasioned by any for
eign invasion, orby wiy military or usurped force
cr by reason of any civil commotion; or occalion,
«d by gunpowder, aquafortis or other thing of th
like kind kept in the building, or amongst the pro-
perty insured.
6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secti- ~r
rities, Title Dwds Money, Bank and ether pro- , 1
mifTery Notes, are not included in any insurance ; 1 So,
nor arc paintings, medals, jewels, gems, antique fiv
ouriolities, or mirrors exceeding the value of twen- | ti o
ty-Gve dollars eaeh, to be considered as insured not q„
less particularly mentioned aid by special agree- j on
mcnt. ton
7th. No inlurance will be made for a ftorter tali
term than one year, nor for a longer term than fe- '
vein years. Persons choosing to insure fdr seven ter
(hall b callowed one year's premium by way R»
of difeount: One third of a years premium (hall
be abated in like manner on an insurance for
three years.
Bth. Loffcs fuflained by fire en prof trty injured,
fhallbe paid iu thirty days after due prouf and li
quidation thereof, without deduflion.
A defciiption of the property to be infurod will *-1
be exptiftc with each application, to be made by \
a mafler carpenter and figncd by him, as well as a jp,
hv th-i owner of the building 01 applicant for in
furai.ee, and attetled before a Notary or principal
Magiflrate, who will certify his knowledge of the me
parties and their credibility. j
With relpe<Sl to Houses and other Buildings.
ill. The site and position; describing the rc „
Hr;ct or road on or near which the building p e( <
Hands ; its conliguity to water, and other cir- No
cumltances relative to the extmguifhment of fire ' wil
in cafe ot accident; and particularly whether are
any and what fire companies are established, and
engines provided, in the place or neighbourhood.
ad. The materials of which it is built, whe
ther of brick, stone or weod, and what part of
each, as well as to the outside walls as inside or
partition walls, and their refpeilive height and a
thicknelj J the style of the roof and of what ~"~"
materuls ; howfecured by battlements or par
ty wall»; what kind of access to the top of the /V
house a<)d to the chimnies ; whether any and ,xl
wh .t eletflrie rods ; the number and kind of • ven
fire places ; and the kind of viepofit for aihes. the
3d. Ihe dimensions of the building and how £
di»iderl, and the flyle in which it is finilhed so
as to enable indifferent persons to judge in what fyf
manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury ; the "'ge and condition of the building, J-*
and how occupied, whether merely as a dwel- .
ling house, or for any other, and for what pnr- '
p»ie , also an eflimate of the raltieof thehoufe
or building independent of the ground. '
4th. The situation withrcfpedl to other build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or j 3,11
not, comprehending at least one hundred feet .'
eilch vay : what kind of buildings are within wr '
that dtftance, hovi' built, of w.hat materials,and *';!
how occupied or improved, whether as dwel- '
lings for private families or otherwise : whe
ther any and what trade or manufactory is car
ried or, and particularly whether there be any
extra hazardous articles used, or usually dep«- /
sited in the house, or within the distance afore-
laid, and of kind.
llefpeflinggoods in Houfes> Warehouses, &c.
1. A ueneral description of the building in » _
wt !eh they are kept will btexpedled, similar in J
all refpeits, at to the danger from lire, with that j neftl
required for Insurance on the buildings them- or ,
stives. wirfi
1. A description of the kinds and nature of beea
the poods, whether in casts in-other packages,
Dr opened ; and whether difplaycd in whole By
pieces or iu tJ* usual form for retailing. Aod Sitti
" ] > 'he good? arv materially in kind, a general j
I eilnnate of iwe vaiuc of eacij.kii«V pfvpol'ed to
inf'tred ; but in ;tic lati particular minute
ness of description is not expelled.
• rn 3- Artic'es of the. following kinds are deem
• ed extra hazardous, thouE(» in variuus degrees,
' ,n P" in whatever hniH'Bg be pjaced, viz.
( arK ' pitch, tar, turpentine, robn, wax, tallow, oil,
rom inflammable lpirits, fulphtir, hemp, flax, cotton, I
dry gaods of an inflammable kind .opened— I
Giifis, china ware or porcelain, especially tin- j
ahout packed; Looking glarfes, jewelery ; andalto-|
rdous t ' ler art ' c ' es more inflammable, I
vhich nr 11 ore than commonly liable to injury by fud-I
m ex- < ' en or by moilkircs, or particularly |
ne in- obnoxiolis to theft oh an alarm of fire,
ly in Le***rs poll paid, dtre<3«d to the Secretary ot I
orefo the Board of Dire/lors, will be duly attended!
;s and to. An order for Insurance accompanied by the I
raised moans of paying the premium, will be imme- I
diately executed on the premium being paid. If j
psrti- the applicaiion contain an enquiry on.y, it will j
well be.anl'wered.
3 y 131 By order of the Board,
ah »- EHENEZER HAZARD, Sec'rj.
C 'k i\ Oft" °f Insurance Company of Nortfe }
: Er ' l America; Pbilad. Feb. I, 1798. 5 I
Feb. 14. ijatntf
extra
s4e- Bank of Penn/ylvama,
ex "
'J, I'™ 1 '™ AT7HEREAS the Houle at ptefent Occupied I
a l - j \ V by the Bank of Vennfylvania was enter- I
11 w j ed on the night of t-he firft instant, by some vil- I
sand who robbed the institution of sundry I
one( j Bank Notes, amoi.gft which were the follow- I
these ' n £ P°" notes the Bank of New-York, viz. |
cribe ,OIM » 23d of August, 1798, Dolls
mu st iflued in favor ..f Seabring &
rum- Van Wyck, far 396 11 I ,
wili, 'oo3,dated 25thof August, 1798,
11 pa- iflued in favor of Montgom- I ,
ery and Newbold for 1250 I,
lone, No 1006, 27th do. do. do. 2000 j 1
Jin 1007, do. do. do. do. aooo I <
? oc- 100S, do. do. do. do. 2000 I i
ring 1009, do. do. do. do. aooo I 1
ns to loio, 28th do. do. do. 2000 I 1
>ods, ion, do. do. do. <lo. 2000
' or IW, 30th do. do. do. 1500
1013, do. do. do. do. rooo I
a " Also sundry port notes of the Bank of Penn- I
"ft 'y' van ' a » July 1797, ilTued in favor I
°* of George Hughes, for one thousand dollars I
1 ki- e^c ' ,, furlc!r y notes °f Bank, da
ted of Jlily, 1797, ifli/ed, in favor of Geo. I
ler- for five hundred dollars each md in
dorfed by him. The public are hereby caution- I
pu- agi'ttft receiving the said notes, and a re- j
[ ef. ward of TWO THOUSAND DOLLARS is
:epw hereby offered for til* difcovtry and eunvic; IOU j
tely 'he villains who perpetrated or are concern
ed in the said robbery, in addition to ther:wjrd
isa- offered by the Governor of the Commonwealth
ex- in his Proclamation of this day.
re- By order of the Board,
irne JONATHAN SMITH, cashier.
me ~ ' ' 1 I p
eot FOR SALE,
' t n J The Cargo of the Schr. Sincerity
he Benjamin Monteith Maftar, from Laguira, I
red c«nsistiko o» I
w - 945 Fe»eg»s of Cocoa
the 400 a lb. eF Flora Indigo I w
l on aio Bales of Cotton j "
ur _ 4 Packages of Goat Skins I . ci
aw By Willings & Francis. I
No. Elev«tith-llre«t. Ij,
me july 3: dtf I
: of
l P- Madras and. Ventapaulem fv
nt> HANBKERCHIEFS, tl
>nt Searfctukers and Carradarries, rc
e - of tho aewell and moll approved patterns, entitled I \
ln " touhe drawback, just received, 1
)r * ANB FOX SALE BY J 3'
:c - Alex. J. Miller & Co.
V' No. 64, South Front street. I
may iR. §
TEN DOLLARS REWARD. °
I ESERTIiD from my Dttachmcitt at Borden* I
°* j U town thJs day, a Marine, by name George I
e > : Rodman t a Native of Irelai.d about 25 years of age I
ue j fiyj feet eight or nine inches high, dark complec- I
n- i tion, black hair tied; black eyes well madt and I to
quarrelsome, when in liquor is fond of singing—had I M
ie- on a blue seaman's j ickett light pantaloons, cot- I
ton Stockings, round Hat, and had under his Pan- I **
er taloons a pair of Nafikeen Breeches. I fta
e * Whoever apprehends and fends the said Defer- f
-n t«r to the Marine Camp, lhall receive the above I
Reward.
October 11, 1798 ? HE » RY A ' WILLIAMS, L
Jr j Lt. Marines I J
— I ne
fc ADVERTISEMENT.
... I fee
TTTHEREAS J*amss Gumming £s" Co. late ol I off
» V the city of Philadelphia, mtrthants, have I
as afligned over all their effeils, ttial, perfor.al and | ~
n " mixed, to the lubferibers, for the benefit of all I
al their creditors, who lhall fuhferibe the said alTign I T'
1C mem within fix months from the date hereof. I 1
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, to all period Es
who are indebted to the said estate, that they aru I int
>e required to make immediate payment of their rel- I Eai
'g pe<3ive accounts, to bhe Aflignees, at their office. I
r- No. 61, Dock fireet, in failure whereof addon.- I afc
e will be inAituted for the recovery of such debts as- I is a
:r are not difeharged accordingly. I put
d John Travis, ")
John Waddington,\ Arr
-- cr _ <r 1 > AlTiirnees tra
,{ James Taylor, f 8 var
, r Cornelius ComegysJ I bet
d august 18 mwftxD j
r- Wanted to pur chafe. J enc
e A PPROVED bills on Amllerdam, for which {T 01
d , -LY c:alh will be guen at the rate of thirty fe
if ; ven cents per Guilder. Apply to the Calhier of " m
the Bank of the United States,
v September izd, 1708. ln '
b /v I"'
Mails for Soath-Carolina& Georgia, _
T) ACKF.TS are now provided for the
l' IT Publk mails by water between Philaddbhia
and Charleston. I hey will leave Philadelphia 'T
- e on Friday's. Th«poll by land will be continu
,ed twice a week until an experiment is made in Hai
|. 'fgard to the expedition and regularity of the ,on
r packets. If any person chufes' to have their P r G
t letters f-nt by bnd only, they will please to »'»
n write the word Land upon the letters : other- ®rd
J wife they will be sent by that conveyance which
. wfl firft start after the lttteri are left in the hut
pot-ofice. beai
yofeph Haberjham, lj v !
y Poft-Majler Gemerl. p
'* Philadelphia, Jugujl 13, 1798. J mal
Pennsylvania Hospital, Fro
n 9 mo. i, I7«8.
11 k XT 0 P' r . fon with an infc Aions disease, can be
J J.>l admitted into this house ;it is thtrefore ear- /
nellly recommended to the citizens, not to fend Otu
or - ring any such patict* to the gate, who is ill l v [,
with the prevailing fever. Several persons having,, jo n o
beea lent here improparly, is the reason of giving ; nr |
. this caution. b s ,ncl
! Bv Order of the "> J oh
I Sitting ivlanagtrs, Jf^ HIGGINSjS/froV.
Ob* : \
v \
' frll Bengal Goods,
d to o '
CON3JSTIVO OF
lute BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS,
Chintz CafTas Vlaharazgungy
Chintz Guzzinis] Tcokereys
r ? s ' Eliabad Baftas Wrought Muslins
Vl^- I.oiig Drawer* "■
°»» Coarse Sugars in bags, fit for the European markets
ton » At-SO,
Carolina Indigo
11 n ~ Coffee in hogsheads
'•! o- A few pipes of very old and very choice Madeira '
ible, WINE
fud- For Sjle, en reafonsble terms, by '
arly John Ctaig,
No. 11, Dock-ffreet. 1
yot july 14 mwntf 1
Tea Dollars Reward. t
mr _ from tfce Guard Ho life in New- <
jj- I JLI Oafile, this morning, Stupheh Bo wo en, a
HI J private M:irine, belonging to the Frigate United
I States. He is about 36 years of age, five feet ten
I inches high, fair completion, light hair, blue eyes,
I born in England, and by trade a Bricklayer. Pri.r
'• Ito the sth of June, the date of his onliftahttif, he
I resided in Philadelphia, where it is probable he
I will endeavour to go. Any person who will ap-
I ]»rchend the said deserter, and secure him in any
I jail within the United States, (hall be entitled to -
j the above reward.
I F. WHARTON, Capt. Marin.s. f
led I New.Caitle, Q<jt. 8.
£ DUTY on CARRIAGES. s
lf y s
I Notice is hereby given, tc
J Z I r i agreeably to an ail of Congress of the ' a
I JL Uaited States of America, passed at Phila-
I delphia the 28th day of May, 1796, laying du- di
21 I ties on carriages for the conveyance of perfans, and A
I repealing the forraie-r a&s for that piwpofe—That lr
I thrre lhall be levied, colle&ed and paid, upon all C
I earri?ges for the conveyaufe of pcrf.ns, which L)
I fiiall be kept by or for any person, forhis-or her r j
I own use, or to let out to hire, or for the convey- 0 f
I ing of paflcngers, the several duties and rates f»l- y
I lowing, viz. dolls, pj
j For and upon every coach 15 j n
upon every chariot 11 m
upon every post chariot 14
upcui every pod chaise la
n- I uV,on every plueton, with or without top 9
or I upon ev#ry coachee 9
irß I upon other carriages, having paimel} °'
ij. j work abeve, with bfinds, glafles, > 9 ] ,r
:0 j or qurtains • j in J
n j upon four-wheel carriages, nuving") P'
[ frame polls and tops, with fleel S- 6 ' ol
e . springs } w<
I upon four-wh«el top carriages, with 7 pr;
wooden or iron springs on jacks J 3 let
upon curricles with tops 3 da
upon chaiies with tops 3 iuj
upon chairs with tops 3 in
'"I uponiulUies with teps 3 or
upon other two wheel top carriages 3 ed
upon two wheel carriages withfteel") ,
or iron springs J 3 t h,
I For and upon all other two wheel carriages 3 ..
upon every soar wheeled •arriage,} fj 1(
y I having framed pods aad tops, C 2 (
' I and reding upon wooden spars j r
I The Colledlor of the revenue ol the firfl divifipn V*
jof the firft survey of the di{lri& of Pennfylvanja, 'j
I will attend daily until the 30th day of September .
I next, for the purpose of receiving the duties on
I carriages, at Gcrmaptown, on the, Main (Ireet, a ' ol
I little above the sign of the King of Prussia, of ot
I which all persons polfcffed of such carriages arc
I desired to take notice. •
_ Notice is also given, P r<
I To all retail dealers in wines and foreign diflillei Cll '
I spirituous liquors, th at licenses Will be granted to
I them ; one licence for carrying on the business of L
retailing of winVin a less quantity, or in less °.
i I uantitics, than 30 gallon s —and one lieenre for ' ICI
I srrying 011 tlie business of retailing fpiriwous li- or
j quors in less quantities than twenty gallons, at (he '
j fame time and at the fame place, by 'he
JAMES ASH, «ke
ColleifLor of the ifl division of the ill tb®
I Survey of thediftritft of Peunfylvania. for
I Office of Infpe&ion at Germantown, 1 der
i- Sjd Au S ltfl ' '798. i the
„ S. " Every denommation of Stamps to be Irad and
f I at said office.
gr The Stamp Press is removed o f
d| to the Office of lnfp«6lion in Germantown, on the c ' a '
d Main f.reet, a little a6ove the figo of the King of r «f[
t. j Prussia,—where attendance will be given fer the con
1-1 accommodation of thole whowifhany inflrnmetils the
I flamped, on Tuesdays, Tburfdays and Satardsys cM
■■ I »* J ami
Wants Employment, oac
I A . Y QUNG MAN, who has served a regu- tice
I r lar apprenticeship to the mercantile bufi- rep ,
" I " elsth,s = u y> wishes to engage in a Couuting fai
I house or office, writes a good hand and under- foffi
I ltands accounts, can be well recommended and Uni
lecunty given if required. Enquire at the in ;
I I office of thit Gazette. !'
j ju,e " aawtf q ua
I I Balkenridge—for sale luv
I T T of 9*° «re s , ilmoft all of which is V ' d '
I fr 6 r ' Meadow, (the residence of the late ° U °
, I Esrl of Sterling). It may beconveniently dixided eXC(
i I into five farms, lour of are bounded on the mac
. I Eait by the river Pafaiek. (ha!
I Th are on it a number of buildings, forming the
: I afquare of nearly threcaeres—The .dwelling house ther
)lis a very convenient one,andja fmallexpence would iatia
I put it in complete repair. fami
The orchard confifls of Ijoo finebearingenoraf- Uw
led Apple Trees—and there is on other partsoi'faid t0 C
trad near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great land
I variety 01 other fruits, particularly Cherries oi the bem
I belt and most delicious kinds. c^ (
Also, a great number of beautiful Eiotics and in vi
I FortftTrpis, that add to the beauty and eonveni- (Hall
.ence of the place. Its situation is abou: 18 miles ti-n f
, from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do. h^l,
from Morns-Town, and 12 fronr. Springfield It
. is wooded and watered.
Fo favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in cafb, on delivery of the deeds. Pieafc to cn-
1 U1 " of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chafnut trect. «
eodtf A PF
Patent Ploughs,
T°»-1 fol j M a<h by Jofe P h 3a,ter at Atfion De
H v w CllS ' Co °l Jer ' s Ferry—Jonathan
Harker, Woodbury-and Jefii Evans, Lumber
ton. ihofe who have used them give thern the
preference to any other kind, as tfeey require
j tMm >, ground better, are kept in I
•rder a cheaoer ticc
rate the plants much Amplified and consists of •
but one piece of call iron, with the handles and ln S
beam ef wood; they may befixed w ; th wrought gref
p - t -•» r "~' -I L
Patent rights for vending with inftruilions for tlle
making them may be had by applying to John thr
Newbold, or the iubferiber No. ju North
Front-street. ortn day
Who hat for Salt; com
Or to Ltu/i for a term of tears, r-
A number of valuable traa« of La U j, wt tt Con
situated f.r Mill,, l ron orks or FlrlßS ' I,
ly improved, lying chiefly in the county of H,n tinn
tingdon ftatt ofPennfylv.au, Thofewhomav .
mcßne to view them will please to apply " to
John Canaa esq. near Huntingdon. * '
. . Cbarltt Ntwtold.
( JUl3r ' 7 »wtf ju!
PIdCL A MJTION.
BY virtue if a preceft irom JoSN D. Con,
Efquire.irefident of the court of Oyer and
Terminer antgcneral goal delivery for the trial of
all capital at other offences in the county of
Bucks; QndHiNRT Wvmcoor and Feancis
'-IoaRA-v, juires of the fame court —A coart of
irkets °y er a»d Teminer, and general goal delivery,
will he held a: Newtown, in the said county of
Bucks, on Moday the Jth day of November next.
Ail those whovill profecutc againfl the prisoners )
ideira ln the goal ps fid county, are reqoircd to be then
and there to prfecute again# them as shall be Jutl
and all the juffces of the peace, coroners and con
flihles, within he said county, are required to be
, at then and therein their proper persons, with their
, n 'f rolls, records,inijuiCtioiil and examinations and
other their reocmbrances, to do th«fe things which
to their o£ls«s Welong, in that behalf to be
tfew- done, &c. I)ANIEL THOMAS, iheriff.
;N } a Od-4, 1798- - 3taw
nited FOR SALE, BY
eyes, John Miller, Jun.
, r NO. 8, CH ESNUT »T*r*T,
e he 100 hogflieads RUM,
I ap- Of high proof aud fine flavour
any july ij
:d to
AN ACT
"• F»r th; relief of the Refugees from the Briti/b
provinces of Canada and Nova-Sftia.
o„ c t)E it enaifed bj the Senate and House
' ' JJ of lieprefentatives of the United
States ef America, in Congress ajfembled, That
to fatisfy the claims as certain persons claiming
the lands under the resolutions of Cofigrefs, of the
lila- twenty-third of April, one thousand seven htin
du- dred and eighty-three, and the thirteenth of
and April, one thousand seven hundred and eighty
'hat five, as refugees from the British proyinces of
all Canada and Nova-Scotia, the Secretary for the
lich Department of War, be, and is hereby autho
her r«ed and direfled to give notice in one or more \
71" e ' lc P a P CTS of each of the States of
®j" Vermont, Mad'achufetts, New-Ycrk, New
-3 s " Hampshire and Petvnfylvania, to all persons hav- (
*5 ing claims under the said refactions, to tranf- (
f* to , ' )e War-office, within two years after '
j j pafiing of this ail, a just atid true account
1 q claims to tho bounty of CongreA.
See. 4. A,r)d be it further emiflcd, That no
other persons shall he entitled to the benefit of the
provisions «f this »a, than those of the follow
ing descriptions, or their widows and heirs, viz.
First, thfffe heads of families, and single per
g sons, not members of any such families, who
were residents in one of. the provinces aforefaid,
prior to tke fourth day of July, one thousand
seven hundred andfeventy-fix, and who aban
-3 dened their settlements, in conftquence of hav- t
3 iug giveu aid to the United Colonies er States,
3 in the revolutionary War againfl Great-Britain,
j or with intention to give such aid, and contiflu
-3 ed in the United States, or in their service, dur-
ing the said war, and did not return to i cfide in f
the dominions of the king of Great-Britain, t
a prior to the twenty-fifth of November, one j
thnufind seven hundred and eighty-three. Se- v
1 coiidly, the widows ami heirs of all fbch per- t
W] fonii as were aflual relidents, as aforefaid, who a
j a abandotied th?ir feLtlements, as aforefaid, and ,
ler d ! e(1 w 'th'n tire United States, or in their fer
on vise durjng the said .war: and thirdly, all per- .£
( a sons who were members of families a,t the time
0 f of their coming into the United States, and \vho
irc during the war, entered'into their service.
Sec. 3. And be it further enaßed, "that the 'J
protif of the levwal circumft?nces necessary to
!ei entitle the applicants to the benefits of this ail, "
to m, y he taken before a of the or j
c f dillriiSl court of jhe United States, or a jifdge C
eft °/ 'he fupremeer superior court, or the firft jaf- "
or t ' ceor j' J( lg c of the court oi common pkas "
jj. or county court of any Sutc. "
jj e Sec. 4. And be it further enafted, That at '
the expiration of fifteen months from and after ■'
tke parting of this ail, and from tifne to time £
tfl thereafter, it shall be the duty of the Secretary
a. for the Department of War, to lay such evi
denceof claims as he may have received, before t
the Secretary and Comptroller of the Treasury,
id and with them, pr.ceed to examine the tefli- ,
mony, -ind give their judgment what quantity j
d of lapd ought to be allowed to the individual q
[, e claimants, in proportion to the degree of their t(
it refpeflive services, facrrfices and fufferings, in a ,
le confeqnence of their attachment ts the cause of J
Is the United States ; allowing to those of the firft h
s, class a quantity not exceeding one thoulandacres;
and to the l»ft class, a quantity not exceeding ai
~ one hundred, making such intermediate classes tl
as the resolutions aforefaid, and diftrihutive jut fa
'* tice J may, in their judgment require, and make cl
report thereof, to Congress. And in cafe any pi
g forh oJairnant ftalJ have fullainsd such loflss and p;
r- or performed such services for the P'
d United States, that he cannot justly be clafled fu
'e in any one general class, a l'eparate report (hall
be made of hi 3 circumstances, together with the
quantity of land that ought to be allowed him,
having reference to the foregoing ratio : Pro
ig I'ided, that in considering what compenfatiou ! u
:e ought to by virtue of this aisl, all grants
except military grants, which may have been
ie made hy theUsited States, or individoal States,
shall be conlidered at the just valuo thereof, at
g the time the fame were made, refpeflively, ei
fe ther in whole or in part, as the cafe may be, a _
d latisfaiflion to those who may have received the H
lame: Provided also, that no claim under this f
r. law, shall be aflignable until after report made
d to Congress, as aforefaid, aad until the said
it ands be granted to the persons sutUled to the
ie benefit of this ad.
Sec. 5. Beit further enußed, Tliatallckims
virtue of said resolutions of Congress, which
t- (hall not be exhibited-js aforefaid, within the
• s time by this aillimitedj shall forever thereafter r?
>• be barred.
c JONATHAN DAYTQN,
Speaker qf the House cf Keprefer.tatives
V P /v™ i EFF£RS ON, Se
nee-Pref,dent of the United Stales, ke
t. « , . and Prefideut ef the Senate. flu
Approved, 7, 1798. aij
JOHN ADAM,?, m
Prudent of the United States. or
De P°fi«ed among the Rolls in the office of the vi)
„ Department of State, tal
Timothy Pickkring, fir
e Secretary of State. an
e < " J .
1 . Pursuant to the ahffVc Aft, No- cc
r ticc is hereby given to all peribns hav
j mg claims unckr the resolutions of Con- m
j grefa, of the 23d of April, 1783, and ke
t ; le ' 3 r th of A P ri] > 1785. to tranfmitto. t °'
r the War-Office within two years after eai
t the passing of the said Aft, viz. 7th 2'
day of April, , 79 8, a just and true ac w!
count of their claims to the bounty of
I Congress. t!u
■ . In pi"°of of Claims, a ftriftatten- co
; ti I ° n bc PaiJ to the requisitions of
, * n d 3d Sediions of the Adl.
JAMES M'HENRY,
july Secretary of War.
* jaw6w
■ANOTHER STRONG PROOF
"d £ 'cHunrt u T ri " eled efficay cf
lo{ VR. church , COUGH DROPS
of „ Ir the CHre of '
"3 Sir, T ° Dl C "««? ' '
£ b0;... U
hen (pitting of matter from
I- clottecj Blood, till «t length If™, of
on- to be unable to walk acroft my
>be mg to the vi„k„ ce 0 f my coulh
ieir nnfs of breath could get no rrft A ' ort *
and Hearing of yourexcEJ!r ° r , ni e h: —
l S^&ess££s
!».t«M1» IW. l.r'"KntSi"" 1
who mav be ia mv fituatlnn 'i 1 of an y
it it one of the best medicine * V™ confiden l
th«fe complaints. ' world for
IS,r > yrgrattful Scrnont«
- mthoids ST.IQG,
<ijb . church's
Are prepared and fold bvfhnln '
r proprietor Dr CHURCH at^n- fo!e
Z Washing, on-ftre et , New Cand
sice, No i, South Third-street Pk-f j of *
and fold by appointment at Mr U,- l ,' phlJ »
5 MSfafiFtfSWS
5 BWEfcM»s»f*
;
>re of the principal cities in the United States Z
f f«ns are requested to purchase them of to I *
; v SjjppA Htirf of
s
■ IC llit . | S. 22W3W
iz. -Qay Publijhed
t- And fgr fete at the Olice of the Editor No
ho 119 Chafnut.ftrm, ' °*
d, (Price 1 -itb of a Doiar,)
Id AN ORATION,
"■ Pronounced July 4,1708
° f thC InhaUta " ,s Rl «i'e Town <,{
r ? c 9 mm " n »-ation of the a'nm
0, ftrfary of ■Vniprican Independence
«, .$3 /-'<*. tytNcr.
in r~ inroads upon our public lH*ert y , call
or reparation—The wrongs we have fattairec
£ \ I ° r ~ 7 " Stice : That K«P"atio o and th«
Z f^ 1 "- rna y y« b ' obtained, by Union, Spirit,
and Firmness. Bur to divide and confer
the maxim of cfce kadi in the garden ttf Ed-a
id rt? <a - \\Z U ind '. njlaTe hath been tfce princi!
r- Jl-efent." ™ Un " trcm thac !*«*» to the
■- iQbser-vajism on the Boston Port-Bill. (jf c t , R
« delate J. cy>juil . *?»
I TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
1, VfOTICE IS HEREBY GIVKN^Vhn Yy vir
>r i\ tne of an a&, passed during the present fcf
f 'l/w f r T' 1 ° f :hc aSt c '"i'-ulcd
« trr , m " 18 H "; thcr P r °vifion lor the Tup
-18 .. P ? V • Credit> aild for the redemption
of the public debt" pa fled the third dlv of
lt Mardi, one thouland fe«n hundred and ninety-
T fro ™ I fe «• allowance
, e Certificates, commonly called Loan Office and
y "n 'r? 1 V' e r tlficates . and Indents of In
i_ fcrefls, IS suspended umil the twelfth day 0
L&fi;7„et;i t ! > . e) ' earon(:thoufand ' cvca
i- r,Jn' -C Ac liqn , idatlon and frttlcm«tof the
said Certificates, and Indents of Imereft, at tha
il 1 -r TY ' f Crcdltor3 wiil be entitled to receive
r " funded Three Per Cent. Stockequal
n t 0 thc a . m °unt of the said Indent?, and the arrear
,f ff tiie firft tt" the ' r C£r ' iß Prior
a hurdrJ 0 Januarj ' one 'boufand ben
II nundrec and ninety one.
; n principal fumsof the said I.ean Office
g and final fcttlenient Certificate?, with the intercft
• fT' v" r ', iefirft da y ol January, one thou-
L " t "' e ° hundred and ninety one, wjll bedif.
e charged after liquidation at the Treatory, by the
y ° f 'ntertft and reimburftment of prinW-
M Ua ! tC e fwcs which wouli hate bew
! EST-V ' f the [ aid C 1,«,
1 pU J f f n I,o , thc making predion
I for the debts of the United States, costraficd dor-
E nl, \ e Wa [' and b y the P«ym">t of other
' f :TC " , ! k t ° the r vktt v:Uue of the remaining
' r. kr 'T- W ? d hlve beea cr «ted by such
1 '"bfonptions asaforefaid, which market value will
s be determined by the Comptroller of theTreafury.
1 OLIVER WOLCOTT,
, . Secrttarj tlx Treafuryi
t J""' 18 lawtf
; TO BE SOLD,
• HPHE time of an indenoed Dutch Servant BOY.
i . - 1 - who has ten years to serve. He has had the
. al ' F" 1 snd measles, is aitive, hearty and flrong,
I ? £ bouse work io town or country. For
further information, enquire ef the printer.
' "-"gust 4
! HEALTH OFFICE.
I ■
r Phjladilphia, ijl May, 1795.
* r act of an aft to alter and amend the Health
Laws of this Commonwealth, pafled 41k April
1798. r
SeiS. 8- A ND be it furtf.er enabled by the au
\ thorityaforefaid, That every houf'e«
keepet; within tlir city ef Philadelphia, the town
fliips of tin: Northern Libertie* and
ai.d diltri£l of Southwark, within a mils of the li
nutsoi the city, taking in boarders arriving by fei
or by iand, from any foreign port or place, and ha*
vingany boardur in his or her family, who (hall be
ta<tcn sick o; any difcufe whatsoever, beswecn the
nrft day of May and the firft day of November in
any year, within twenty daV» next after such boar
<W stall conn to lodge in his or h«r house, (hall
within 14 hours next after the knowledge of such
lickocfs. make report at the Health.Office of the
name of such fisk pcrfo*, the time of his or her ar
rival at the house and of his or her being taken sick,
and of the and place of abode of such houfe-.
keeper; whin upon the Phyficraß of the Health-
Office shall forthwith viiit the patient, and report
to the office his opinion of the nature of such dis
ease, that measure* may be taken to prevent the
fprcading of the infection ; and if any housekeeper
shall negleit to give information in the manner and
within the time aforcfaid, and lhallbe thereof con
vifled, in any court of criminal jurisdiction within
this Commonwealth opon indi&ment by verdiiS
or confeffion, he or ljie (hall forfeit and pay a fine
co the use of thc said hospital, not less than twenty
dollars, nor more than one hundred dollars, to be
iQipofud at the difctetion of thc court, according to
the circumftancet of greater or less aggravation at
tending each paiticnlar cafe.
By order of the Board of Health,
WM. ALLEN, Health Officer,
Itwjm of chc Pert of Philadelphia.