rf» » '
#a?ette of tf)C Daily Advertiser;
Zty John Fenno, N°* 119 Chejniit Street.
Number 1764.J . PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, MAT 5, if g§. ... [V-glume XIII.
" " ————J i , . , ■ ■»„ ,
NO? ICE.
A S Wcdnefday the ninth instant is appointed
jCjl by the PrtlideHt of the United States, as
a day of Solemn Humiliation, Fading and
Prayer, Notice is hereby given, that the Bank
of Penufyl*ar»ia will be (hut ori'ifiat day, and, ~
that ail payments which then fijfcbme due at
Sank, mult be made ua the day preceeding;
the Board of Dire&ors will meet on Tuesday
the eighth inftafit, for the purpose of Difcount
hig and Notes offered for discount must there
fore be sent in, the V onday preceeding.
By order of the Board
JON. SMITH, Cashier.
may 3. dtß
Real Eitate for Sale.
AT the Merchant's Coffee House on Monday
evening the twenty-firft instant, will bt.-
fold pursuant to an order form the Orphan's
Court. A three (tory Brick House, twenty-four
feet front on Great Dock-street and forty-two
feet deep ; together -with the Lot twenty four
feet by eighty-two feet d«ep, now in the tenure
of Edward Pole, bring part of theeftate late of
Kev. Gilbert T.Snowdrn <teceafed. Tke terms
will be made known at the ti:r.e of Sal«, by
Ilaac Snowden, Admniftrator.
Edward Pole, Au&ioneer.
may 3. dtoric its
Military Colours,
FAINTED ON SlLK—by
George Rutter & Co.
Portrait and Ornamental Painters,
IN a flile which will nciure 'he lvardlhips of the
weather without injury, arid wh'ch for nCitnefs
»tr£ c latitude of colouring cannot be surpassed in
'' TLAGS and DRUMS
turnilhed with dispatch, »n ths most moderate
terms. , .
Portraits, Ornamental Paintings, Signs,
fire-buckets, &c. accomplilhed in tlfat superb stile
■of modern efegance, which, Mr. Rn r ttr fledges
himfelf from 20 years experience iu this city will
meet the entire approbation of-his frknds and the
public.
In the Military Line,
A variety of specimen's may be seen at their
Painting Room, Norris's Coun, back of the Naw
Library.
may 3 d6w
Robert Field,
MINIATURE PAINTER,
Has removed to No. 106, Walnut ilreet, be
tween Fourth and Fifth (lreets.
may a. d'W
JUST RECEIVED,
FROM tOK T- A U-PRINCE,
And FOR SALE, by tie SUBSCRICERS,
110 hhds. Coffee
46 tierces do.
100 barrels do.
100 bags do
110 hogsheads of Muscovado Sugar
80 barrels oi do. i t <
40 I\og(heads of Mo-lniTes
4 bales of Cotton
1 hojjftieads of Cocoi
WILLINGS fcf FRANCIS,
Penn-ftreef.
march I». $
FORSALE,
BY the subsCrjbeks, No. ai, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Cottfijlihg of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
Coffees Punjum Cloths
Ssnahs Guzzey do.
Hurahu-ms Charconna Oorea
Bl«e Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulinuls
Mampodys Checks
Maharagongej Patna Hkfi.
Ginghams Malmu! da.
Guzzenas Bandannoes
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Piniifcoes Choppa Romals
Salgatchys Sooty dn.
Gillie Romals PerlUns of various col.
Meek Pulicats
100 tons SUGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER. 1
Willings & Francis. -
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open to file at that i
commodious store the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth-(lreet3.
Also—A few Bales of Madrafi Hkfs. of ele- ,
gant patterns and btft colours.
February 8. dtf ]
A Premium of too Dollars j
WILL be paid by the Bank of Pcunfylva
nia, for such Plan of a Banking House,
accompanied with feSions and elevations, as may
be approved of by the Directors. The building is
not intended to exceed 60 feet front, or 100 feet
in depth, and to be so planned ai to admit of its
being made fire proof. It is requested that the
plans may be feir to the Cashier of the Bank, pre
vious to the firft of June next. j
april 19. tuthstlje
FRESH TEAS.
MR. CHALK,
INFORMS his Friends and the Public, that he -
has opened a
TEA WAREHOUSE
At his Circulating Library, No. 7 f North Third. 1 '
Ilreet, where he will be happy to execute their
Orders for fine-flavoured S
IMPERIAL, HYSON, ") 1
YOUNG fIYiON, ( _ t
HYSON-SKIN, r a
SOUCHONG & BOHEA J a
On moderate terms. '
Coffee. Chocolate and Loaf Sngcr.
April 15. mAsts
Notice —Agreeably tt> charter,
I, hereby given to the members of " the cor
poration for the 'elief of poor arid diftrefled
preibyterian miniflers and the poor and ditlrefled
widows and children of preibyterian ministers," £
that a meeting of said corporation is to be hold- ( j
en, on the 16th day'of May next, at 4 o'clock v
P.M. in the second prefbyleriai church in the n
city of Philadelphia, for the dispatch of all such v
buiinafs a* may then be brought before the a
board. ASH3EL GREEN,
Secretary «fthe Corporation. ft
April 7. tawti6m «
For Sale,
The new and fall failing
-.y&VES
NOW lying at Pine Street wharf—hrr length is
sixty eighkfeet, breadth twenty feet fix inches, depth
eigh feet nine inches and burthen one hundred and
•four 69-95 tons. For terms apply to the Matter
onboard, or
GEORGE PLVMSTED,
No. i6B,South Front Street,
april 26 §4t
JUST ARRIVED,
In the brigGayofc,capt. Bingham,from St.Martins
A quantity of SALT,
of an exccellent quality
A few groce Porter Bottles, new
And twenty calks Vinegar
Also, FOR SALE,
Enquire of
Jehu Hcllingfivorth \Sf Co.
No. zi, Little water ftrset, South.
April 20. $
For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
195 calks of nails aflbrted
20 bales of fail canvjf», from No. I to 8
53 casks yell >w ochre
115 tierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 doz each
London particular ? Ma^;ra wines
India market )
I do. in hog(li«a4s and ;plpes
Old Port do. in hhds. , -
Empty Claret bottlas
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Muflineta &c.
aflorted for the VVeft-lodi* market
4, 10, and 9 inth cable" and 10 coils of cordage
Writing fiates, ink (lands and presses
20 purcheons Jimaica rum
X bale Teaming twine
160 bundles iheatiiing paper
THE BRIG
A M A Z 0 A r ,
Sale, or Charter.
Nick/in. is" Griffith.
April J tuth&f.tf
FOR "SALE.
l£'rU«}Hava n nah Sugar
100 Hides
Will be landed to morrow, at Fran
cis's wharf, from on board the brig A&ive, Will
iam Williams, master.
JgbJSfcv ALS0 '
And may take in immedi
ately after difchar.ged.
Apply to
Jehu Hollingfworth & Co.
march 30. §
, «... For Haiplwssb? . . —:
TH E tit IF' -
Dominick Terry,
John Fleming, Majler,
Having great part afher cargo en
gaged.—For freight apply to
JeJfe Robert Wain.
February 26 $
~~ W A N T E Di
APPROVED BILLS on Amfterdam—for which
cash will be given at the rate of thirty seven cents
per guilder. Enquire of the Cashier of the Bank
of the United States.' § april 23.
LANDING^
Frem on boart the flirp Elizabeth, captain Paiflie,
from Batavia,
And FOR SALE by the Subscriber,
400,000 wt. Java COFFEE
300 C3nifters SUGAR, of a superior quality
ALSO,
A quantity of SAFAN WOOD
JOHN MILLER, jus.
spnl 17. §
Thomas £3° Joshua Fisher,
H AVF. POR SALE,
At No. J, Dock-ftreet,ne4r tht Drawbridge, :
China ware nankeen dining fctts, tea and coffee
cTsps and saucers
Nankeens, black fattins and taffities
Pnngem cloths, choppah romalls, and bandannoes
China and En#lifla umbrella"!,'
Together with a general affbrtmeni of European
Goods— among which are
Scots thread in boxe#
6d. 8d iod. lid and iocl. nails
Shot—T. Crowley ftcel, Spanish brown and white
lead
Englifti feythes 42 to 50 inches
ALSO?
11l barrellsof kiln dryeri Indian corn nieal.
AcommodiousStoreinDock-ftreet,
No. 7, to be let, three stories high, fuitablefor
any business.
4th mo. <th §tf.
For Sale,
BY THI SU3SCRTBEB,. NO- 10, CK«SN»I STREET,
11 Casks of Carolina Indigo,
Which will be fold on realonable terms 011 a fkort
credit.
* Robert Henderfon.
April 2 m*.T&S4W
NOTICE. -
PartnAlhip of the fuhfcriliers, tradin>»iin
i der the firm of PAXSON is* RICHARD
SON, was diffol v«d on the sixth of the third month
last, hy r.mtu 1 consent. All persons indebted
thereto are earnestly requellcd toiaake payment ;
and those that have any demands again(t the fame,
are dcfirerl to present their aicounts for settlement
to cither of the fubferiber* -
Tfahc Paxjon,
Nathaniel Riihardfon.
Philadelphia, 4th mo. 3d, 1798.
Isaac"paxson,
Continues to carry on the bulinefs at the usual
place, No. 10, South Third street, where he has
on hand a large afforrment of Ironmongery, Sad
dlery, Cutlery and Brass Wares, which he wi i fell
v'holefale or retail, on low terms, for c*vCi or the
tffual credit, He expe&s to -receive by the sirs:
veflcls from London, 3riflol, Liverpool and Hull,
a large addition to his present aiTortrwent ; and
will execute with punctuality and care any orders
from he former cultonaers, and hi*friends in gen- j
eral. aa*.v4w j
FOR SALE,
t (By Pojifonempit,)
At Public Vendue, on tiife 7T!? ne-f', at
, 1 o'clock in the evtYnpg, at.tht-Mefchtnti'
Coffee-Hnute,
s THE FOLLOWING,
i PRODUCTIVE, REAL ESTATES :
1 No. i. A good TriUFE STORY BRICK
r HO(7SF, 20 Tf ft front, and 13 feet 1 deep, wjth
the privilege of 1 four feet aHcy. It is situated
in Plumb-lireet, between Front and Second
ftreets,inHpteafint and isiproving part of Sou'.h
- vvark.
2. A genteel three-story brick House in Krsnt
1 street, between Race and Vina streets, No. 171,
north—it goes through to Water street, where
it is five flories high, the whole in compleat re
pair, and now rented for 600 dollai s per sr,n.
3. A.handforne, well finished three-it >ry
brick House, in south Second street, No. 165,
it is 30 feet front, and 45 feet deep. The Lot
rurn through to Dock-(treet, on which is built
a good two-story brick house : The whole was
let before repaired for 800 dollars and the taxes.
4 A well built three-flory brick houfr, fili
ated in Cbefnul-ftrcet, between Front and Se
cond streets, being r8 feet front, and about 300
feet deep, running through to Taylor's alley,
- on which it is 22 feet front, with a coach-hcufe
and (table. There are ten good rooms jn com
pleat repair, and cellar under the whoje, cl.arof
ghonnd rem and every other incumbrance.
5. A good Plantation, situate.l n?ar Hights-
Town, East New-Jersey, containing 186 acres,
well improved land,.with plenty tif woodland,
orchard and meadow, in a her.ltby fixation and
a good "*
6. Another Plantation adjoining the preced
ing, containing atfo 186 acres. Or. which is a
frame house and stable, with a large orchard of
grafted fruit, a good welt of water, and a large
, body of swamp, well timbered.
7. Alio another plantation, adjoining the
firft mentioned ; it contains 186 acres, pa 1 "' of
which is good meadow, a large quantity ef val
uable swamp, a very eonvcni#nt farm house,
barn, stable, and a gocd new well of excellent
water.
Also, a number of BUILDING LOTS, too
feet front (011 the great road leadinj to Amboy)
and 300 feet deep ; adapted particularly for
tradefmeii. <
For further particulars or purchase at private
file, apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY,fen. or,
ROBERT E. GRIFFITH.
April 28. 2?&3#A 2,4,6,7 M
A Country Seat.
' I t O BE LET for the summer f«rfon or bjr the
1 year, the greater part of a large House, in
a high, healthy situation, above the eight mile
' stone, on the Germantown road (occupied only by
a newly married couple)—with /tabling and con ■
venience for keeping a carnage. For further par
ticulars, enquire of Caspar W.. Haiku, ip Ger
mantown, or the fubferiber, on. the premises.
HE7.BK-' " -WNT3M AN. .
DMI-.I - 1 aaw 3W
I.ANDED THIS PAY,
From on board thii ship c*pt. BrßWn,
from Jacquemel, at WilcockV wharf, about
80,000 wt. of fine Green Coffee
in bogfheads, barrels and bags
For Sale—applj to 1
John Whitejidci & Co.
WHO HAS ON HAND,
Claret of the firft quality, in cases
april 30.
Ross Ssf Sim son,
HAVE FOR SALE,
22 bales superior Midrafs blue Cloths
Carolina Indigo, firft quality
A few bales Baftas Ccifaes, and a quantity of
' Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bigs and boxes
fc:S'
april 20 __ §
L A ND ]N G~
From on board thf Ship Sat.lv, from
Calc*;ta,
AND FOI S AX. E BY rHE SUBSCRIBER,
1600 bag* prime Sugar,
800 do. Ginger
30 bales low priced piece Goods.
. John Miller, Jun.
march j §
TO BE SOLD,
40,959 acres of Land.
IN Greene County, Commonwealth of Pennsyl
vania, on the Wafers of Fish and Wheeling
Cr*eks!and Ten Mile Ran.
Thefc Lands arc fertile and well timbered, and
abound in Cost ; they were fold ten years ago for
five (hillings per acre ; patented early in J7,B7,ex
cept 3700 acres, which were patented in 1791;
part of them were surveyed in 1783. The trad
is between the Ohio and Monongahela, very con
venient to water carriage, about 19 miles frcm
the town of Washington, from 14 to 16 from the
village of Greenelburgh and Wheeling.
On payment of one fourth of thepurchafe mo
ney, a reasonable credit will be given for the red
due. Enquire of the Printer.
April $
TO BE SOLD, ~ ;
26,7 80 acres of Land, ,
IN the State of New York, between the northern
bounds of Pennsylvania and the Sufquehinna 1
now, or late in the townships of Hamdcn and
Warren and county of Warren.
1 hefe Lands, trom thiir quality and situation,
are a very desirable object for any man who means
to invtil his money to advantage.
On payment of one third of the purchase mo- '
ney, a reasonable credit will be given for refi
due. Eugjiire of the Printer. l
april 11. $
Manchester Goods.
Received by the latest arrivals from Liverpool, fe
verat trunks, suitable for the prrfenn and ap
proaching faafon, which will be fold very
low for calh or on a (hort credit, via.
7-8 and 9-8 Printed Calicoes
Fancy Waiftcoating in Mars. ilks, &c.
Cotton and silk and cotton Hofi.ry, Pantaloon", ■
&c.
A variety of (Fnglifh) Umbrellas
Nankeens, cotton Hhkfs. Shoe binding;, &t.
N. B. A cafe of printed Muflir.ets, and a trunk
of Pullicit Bangalore Handkerchiefs entitled to
drawback, and very fattablo for the IVe&.lndies.
Apply No. 35 South Water and corner of Chef
nut street. 4IWO. 12 —§iw
The of
FUNDED DLBT OS %"£ UNITED STATES
0 l'. -NDINO on th* of tftc treifuiy, were
' O forwarded lor l,o»ddn hy'tb* <hip William
Penn, Captain jofiah, which hath beeq captured,
and the Certificate*fuppc.fcd to be lolt, viz :
3164. Bj. Deferred debt, in the name of Rev.
Edward Ciddy, of J hredrea, In Cornwall,
Great Britain, dated Jane i, 1797. Certificate
1 No. 10,072.
' Son. ic. Six per Cent. Stock, in the name of
Edward Home, of Bevis mount, Hants, Great
Britain, dated May 30, 1797. No. 15196.
3620. 50. Deferred Debt, in the name of Will
iam Manning, of Ormfby, in the county of Nor-;
folk, in England, dated July to, 1797. No, 1
10199.
20183. 71. Three per Cent. Stock, in the name
of Jinnet Mathew, of Up'er Seymour Ilreet,;
London, Widow, dated O-'lober 31., 1 797. No.
11820.
For the renewal of -theabove Certificates, ap
plication is intended tobemade at the fai l office of
the Trcafury of the United Stat-m, —and allper
fun» concerned aredefired io tali notice.
/ISO IN THE S/lilK VisltL,
Fifteen {hares Storkof the Uankof UiritedStates in
theuame of William Maming,of Ormfby, coun
ty ol Norfolk, England, vii. Three Certificates I
for five snares each, dated January I, 1797.
No. 25982, 2.5083 j 55984.
For the ftnewal of wSicti,application is meant to
be made tt) the said Bank of the United States, —
and all pcrfons concerned therein are desired to
take notice.
JN. rAUGIIAN.
Philadflphia, may 4. '
The following Certificates of Shares
IN the North American Land Company, (landing i
on the Books of f.iid Company in the name of
Dan el Eider, of Hitkney, in the coun;y of Mid
dleftx, England—viz. No. 4151, representing
13096 to 13105, ten (hares—No.Hso —l3o66 to
13075, ten (harts—No. 214 V—13056 to 13065,
ten (hares—No. 2148 —11509 to 11518, ten (hares
—No, 2147 —114 71 to 11480 —Amounting to
Forty Shares, were forwarded for Lcndoßby the
fn p Wilfaii Pem, which having been captured,
said certificates are supposed to be loll; for the re.
ncwal ef which, application will be made to the
Doard of the said company.
Daniel Neal Lijier.
may 1 * f l6w
NOTICk.
THREE Certificates of Six Per Cent. Deferred
Debt of the United States ol the fellowipg
description, vi»—No. 10033, 10034, agd 10335,
for 5000 dollarsaach, dated Bth May, 1797, and
(landing on the books of t,he Treasury of [hp Uni
ted States, in the name of Benjamin Waddington,
of LanoverHoufe,near \bergayenneyln England,
Esq. have been loft by the capture ofthe (hip BUc
chus, from hence to London, in June last.—This,
therefore notifies those whom it may concern, that
apj lication will be made at the Treasury of the U
nited States for a renewal of the fame.
Waddinglon Isf Harwood.
march 12 . _ - 56w
JUS i\AiUILV"XBr~ —-
In the (hip Photnix, capt. Grice, from Amsterdam, "
4 boles siamois I hhd. Hogs Bridles, ijl
3 do. Haarlem Stripes quality
3 do. Checks, No. » 2 do. do. ad do;
9 do. Sealing Wax 3 dcf. Glue, and
Cream Cheese in priitie 11 chcfls firft quality Red
order for exportation Crull
ALSO,
Jufl: Received, via Baltimore, See.
5c bales brown Ticklenburgs and hempen Linens
to bale* German Ozaabrigs
30 bales brown Rolls and Hefiifis
25 bales Poli(h do. suitable for coffee and cotton
ba,rs
20 bales empty Bags
1 bale bleached HefTan*
I package Turkey Yarn
54 pieces Vfadr&'ft Handkerchiefs
1 chetfc'Tapes, No. if, 25, 3cc.
1 package cotton Lindfeyj
2jo boxes Window Olafa, 7 by 9, 8 by 10, 9 by
xi, ioby 12, 14 by 16, 16 by 18, &c.
20 cheOi plain and flowered half pint, pint and
quart Tumblers
20 chefls Locking Glafis c , aflorted
4 large elegant do.
30 travelling Liquor cases
1 cheiland 8 barrels Snuflf Boxes
400 fides upper and foal Leather
A cargo of prime Mahqgany
Several Anchors, from 4 to 12 cWt. ,
20 pipes old Pot "*N
A few quarrej calks Sherry (
60 Cases^ White ( WINES
200 boxe*sCiaret J
80 l)oxes Capers
300 fm'an boxes Russia Soap
30 tierces Rice
50 calks Roll Brimstone
40 kegs yellow flone Ochre
15 k gs Pearl Barley
2 hogsheads Madder
1 chest aflorted Quills
6 bales Writing Paper 1
10 thefts Slates and Pencil*
ao trunks Mens* and Womens* Shoes
60 Silver Watches
1 hhd Coffee Mills
2do fithing and blocking Twine * '
2 chef?# Nuren?>eFg Toys
A few Demijohns
A quan Ity of (lone pickling Pots
4 boxes of Englifli Chariot aad Chariot Harness,
with plated ornaments in complete fettsfor 2, 4,
or 6 horfes,alfo Whips, Spurs, &c. ? »
The above Goods are generally entitled to draw
back, are fuitablefor the East-India market, and t
\rill be fold at reasonable prices and at the usual * e
credit, by
PRATT fcf KINTZING,
No. 9J, North Water-flrcet. t
April 16. t&fiat (
BRANDT ~ ;
The Cargo of the Danish Brig Concord, '
FROM CETTE,
Will commence landing this day, at Smith's ftrest 1
j wharf. «
«oo pipes 4th proof ") <-,1. • -r> i
160 do hi do. jLihoice JBrandy
Provence white Wine, in pipes r
Haalenuts and Filberts, in sacks
A few Almonds, Raisins, &c.
For Sale by
Prter Blight.
who also OFfim for ■ mi,
aoo.ooo lbs. Java Coffee, in sacks r
Ofd Batavh Arra. t, in pipe, p
Mace aAd Cloves, in boxes r
110 hhds. Jamaica Ku»ir
50 10. do. Rum
Port Wine, in pipes, hhds. and qr.ca&s
Madeira, Lrn.ioji pnicalar, in pipes, very J
j luperior -
a P r " '*• dt\*
t "
• Madeiri Wine.
j A few pipes of r«mark»bly fine Madeira, fit
for immediate irfe, aud at a retimed price—For
, fait by JAMES YARD.
, may, z. ' d:w
Diftillerv t.o Let,
J 1
CONTAINING THRIF STILLS.
ONE contains Bjo gallons—one 4CO gallons, and
the other 300 gallons—together with pumps and
citterns, aII in eompleat order and may be entered on
immediately. Alio, 19 ® bushels of excellent Vir
ginia Coal which were brought lor the above works
a nd will be fold chesp. For fundi r particulars en
uireof John M'Cavley, No. 73, South Second
> q^ rp et, or at his Copper Warehoule, No. 89, South
j S ont Street.
N. B A small parcel of thin Copper fit sos
flieathing or building—a few b xes of Tin—one new
(till aud worm eompleat that will hold 300
and oue second ft ill that will hold 550 gallons, for
a!e—enquire as above,
may 2 *3t
Wanted "
A Good Cook—also a Man
Servant who understands House work. None
' but of good charailer need apply—Enquire ( at
this office.
\ may 2 <Sf
Schuylkill Permanent Bridge.
r Suhfcribers being t ie si* peifons firfl •
1. in the Letters Patent, iffucd by the Governor
of thwCommonweal h f bv virtue of the Aft of Gen
eral Alfrmbly «f the 16 h ult. for inrorpora ing the
Company—hereby flive notice agreeable to the 3 I
feftionof the laid law, that they have appointed, and
heieby rtqicft a mec.i<i£ of the lubiej ibers at tnc
State Houf.. City of Philadelphia, on thethirty
firft day of ihit iuiUnt May, at ten o'clock in he
forenoon, for the mentioned in the jfaid 3d
fettion, which is herealter published for the inform
ation of the Stockholders.
Richard Peters,
John Perott,
Matthesv M l Conn ell)
William Sh:-xiff y
George Riek/jatn^
IVilnatri Nichols•
Philadelphia, id
Seftion 3. And be it furthei enti led by the autho r ity
aforejaid. That »+ie lix Pcrfonf fiilt namefi in the Ler
tcs l J aient, shall as loon as conveniently may be af
}cr fealingthe lame, give notice in,two or more pjb
lie News Papets in Philadelphia* o.ie-wheieof Ihali
be in iW German Languag . of a tirns and place by
them to be appointed, no; less than thirty days ttorm
the time «t iffuir.g the firft notice, which time and
place thefaid fublcribers shall pioceed to organize the
said Corporation and shall chose by a majority of
votes of the said fybfcribeis by ballot, to be delivered
in Person or by Proxy, duly —one Pref»«
dent, twelve Dirrftors, qne Treafu er, and such other
officers as liiey feaUthink neediary to conduft thebu
finefs ol the said Company lor one year,, and until o
her officers shall bechof#n, and may make such bye
laws, rules, orders and regulations, npt incoofittenC
wi'hihe laws of»thi's Common we Jth, »s (hall be ne
ccffary for the well ordering tl\e affairs of the said com
pany; Provided always, that no person (hall have
more than fifty votes at any eleftion or in determining
any question arising at such meetings whatever num*
petW—
~ny him or hei held under the laid number.
Massachusetts Di/iriH.
By Order of the Honorable John Lowell,
Efquirt, Judge of the Diilridl Court for
the Maflachufetts Diftridl,
„ "KJOTICE is hereby given to all.perfoni
IN concerned," That a Libel is filed in said
Court by Christian G. Gruczmacher, late Com
mander of the ship Corona, of and from Ham
burgh, and Henry Andrew Heias as agents for
the owners of said Slup, against sundry goods,
wares and merchandize, saved from ftjd fliip
Corona, wrecked on Cape Ccd within said Dif
trifl on the 16th March lasl —which goods,
wares aad merchandize, were.conligned to di
vers person? in Philadelphia, in the Diftri<ft of
Pennsylvania, and elfc-where—and that said Li
bel is filed as aforefaid, for the freight said te be
due to the Libellants on said goods, wares and
: merchandize, and for neceflary exp?nces paid
I by them which have arisen upon the fame—
-1 And that trial will be had the afafelaid
Line! at a Diflrifl Coti' rto be holden at the
Court-House in Bo.ft.on, on Monday the eigh
teenth day of June next, at 11 o'clock, A. M.
SAMUEL BRADFORD, •
" Narjkal of Mojfacbu/ittt"
Dated at Bolton, ytpril t
r tawtf
Notice is hereby Given,
TH AT application has been made at the Bank of
rhe UcitedStatei, fjr the renewal of the fol
lowing five Certificates of Bank Stock, loft by the
capture of the British Packet, OouHtel's of Lcicef*
ter —viz.
No..77oß,containings(hares'} I.Tucd to Henry Ca-
3 70 J j do j zenove Nephew&Co
73 2 I do. issued to Edwitrdt
, and Co.
3183 5 do. iflued (iu lieu of
t>so9 to 6513) to Samuel and Henry Vaddington.
1918 4 do. iifued to Phyn, El
lice and tnglis.
All persons concerned are therefore called upon
to (hew caUse why new Certificates (hould nu jbe '
ilTued agreeably tp the said application.
April 14 eofiw
New Tea Warehouse.
No. 39, South Front Street,
OPPOSITE POST-OFFICE.
THE refp«c>!ully acqnainfsherfric»d*
and the public, that ftie has opened a Store for
the Tale of all kinds of teas, imported in the late
arrivals at Boston and Philadelphia, (as under) and
which Qicis determined to fell on reaionabje tcimt.
It will be her con Rant endeavour to give fati>fa<sli( d
to those favor her with their cu(lorn.**
Country flerrs will fiad it their advantage to de;d
wi h her, as she can at a moment's notice aflTort
them any quantity wanted,an4 will allow a reason
able credit on approved notes.
Imperial, Hyi'oc, Hyfon,
Hyson Skin, and Bohea—Alfo, Coffee and
Sugar for f tic.
Sarab Ebon.
April it s&'th.6v/
The Co-partner(hip of the tmbfcribcra,
TRADING UNDER THE FIRM OP
Joseph Davidson & Co.
IS this dry diiTo'.ved by mutual confer.!, all thofs
having claims against said firm, are desired :o
render their accounts, arid those indebted to rnait
payment to Joseph Davidfon, wl)o is duly autlu
rifed to fettle the aijaira of the concern.
JO?RPrt f. MH.LER.
JOSHPH D-.VIDtON.
N. 15. The Stores at the coraer.cf Market r.nd
Fosinh Streets sre now to be iet.—Enquire ol jo
seph Davidfon.
ap'il *(• witsan.CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
TnejDJlT—A PML 14.
Mr. Coit asked and obtained leave of
a'ofence for three weeks: „
Mr. Claiborne alked andobtained leave
of absence for his colleague, Mr- Clay, who
foroe days ago received an account of the
death of Mrs. Clay.
Mr. Otis presented a petition from the
freeholder*'and other inhabitants of the town
of Brooklyn, in the (late of MaiTachufetts,
praying that merchant's vessels -may not be
allowed to arm, and that such means may
be taken as (hall prevent the United States
from being drawn into the vortex ofthe Eu
ropean war—Referred to the .committee of
the whole on the state of the Union.
Mr. W. Claiborne reported a bill di
reftingthe payment of a detachment of mi
litia for fervieos performed in the year 1794,
Under major James Qrr, which was commit
ted for to-morow.
The bill for the relief of Reuben Smith*
"Nathan - Strong and Pierre Atfpoix ; and
the bill for the relief of Obadiah Brown,
were read the third time and pafled.
A bill from the Senate, authorizing the
President of the United States to raise a
provilional army of 20,000 men, was read
the firft time ; and upon motion made to
read it a second time.
Mr. Nicholas objected to the feeond
reading of the bill ; as he believed it poflef
fed a principle which could not be afiented
to. He moved, therefore, that the biil be
rejefted. He did not believe it was necessa
ry to pass a bill of this fort under any polfi
ble modification. The highest aft of legisla
tive power was, by it, proposed to be tranf
ferred to the Executive, viz. the power to
raise an army, which he was to exe,reife at
his pleasure. If an army was necessary, the
legiflatuie ought to raise it; but he did not
think it was necefTary at ptgfent, Indeed,
when difcufiing the bill for providing a na
val armament, gentlemen had said that mem
bers had been willing to make preparations
for defence on the land, where there was
n6 danger, but were unwilling to do it at
sea, where the greatest mifchief might be
expeCted. He did not believe thsre could
be any necefiity for going into a measure of
this kind at the present session. In cafi of
predatory attack, the militia would be equal
to repelli-g them. Mr. N said he lived in a
part of the country perhaps more defence
lefs than any other ; but so far as he or his
constituents were concerned, he did not wirti
for a foree of this kind. He was willing to
confide for defence on the militia of the
country.
Mr. Oris thought it very extraordinary that
the gentleman from Virginia should endeavor to
furprizea part of this house into a drcifitjn upon
thii bill in this stage of it. He hoped he would
consent to its taking the nfual course. The
gentleman had gone into the meriti of the bill ;
Ite~ cointnioi. T,>j?3ure ne hxrt not
heard it read ; so fir as he did hear tt, he war
of opinion that the gentleman hid anticipated
objeit ions which did not lie against it. He Teem
ed to luppofe that this bill declared that a (land
ing army (honld be raised. It does no such thing ;
n only declares that if existing circtimftances
(hall make it neetflary, then the President (hall
raise an ;rmy not exceeding a certain number of
men. It may happen that the necefiity will not
exist ; but the gentl*man from Virginia must be
able to fathom the intentions of France further
than he could pretend to do, if he could fay that
no such neceflity would exist. If what was said
by the agents of that government to Our Envoys
could be relied on, there was a dire<?l threat to
ravage our coafls. He hoped, however, no in
vasion would take place ; but whence said this,
he calculated upon the French ailing as reason
able beings, but he perhaps calculated delusively.
Indeed they are now threatening the invafioß of
a country, where one may suppose they would
have as little chance i f succeeding as in this
country; and was the idea then to be so much
fcoflVd at, as not to fuffer a bill intending to
provide against it to be read a fecend time ? If
the arms of our citizens were to be cied up, and
our militia were many ef them without arms,
with what ftiould we oppose such an attempt if
it were made ? What, (aid he, is to prevent
ViflorHugifts fending overtwo or three frigates;
it had been said that he expe&ed open war, and
that he was ready for it ? In short, he thought
it would be the most difgracefui condudl that
ever was attempted in that house, if the bill
(hould b« rejefled without a (icond reading. It
would be in vain to talk of unanimity, if a bill
from the Senate was to be treated in this way.—
If the gentleman persisted in his motion, he
trusted he would find himfelf nearly alone.
Mr. Gallatin wondered the gentleman
from Mafiachufetts (hould be so greatly surpris
ed at a motion of this kind, because if he had
attended to the rules of the house, he would
have found that it was a course expreisly pre
fc-ibed by them.lthad been ailed on before dur
ing this session. The principle he said was well
undcrftood. When a member disapproves of
the principle of a bill altogether, and does not
wish to go at all into a discussion of the detail,
he moves to reject ii before it goes to a second
reading.
This bill goes to auth»rize the President to
raise an army. He did not know what was
ifieant by a provisional army. He did not find
any thing said in the constitution of the United
States relative to provisional armies, or of giv
ing the President power to raise armies. Ht
found mentioned there no other kind of defence
than an army and militia. It fays Congress
(hall raise and support an army, not provide for
the raising of an army ; but this b'll is to enable
the President of the United States to raise an ar
my .The constitution has (ieclared that the raising
of an army ib placed in Congress, but this bill
goes to declare that this power (hall be veiled [by
(aw in the President. Tflat is the principle of the
bill ;& if Cougrefs were once to admit the prin
ciplethat they have a right to veftjn the President
powers placed in their hands by the constitu
tion, that instrument wpuld become a piece
of blank paper. If it were to be admitted
in one cafe, it would be admitted in another;
and if admitted in one department, it might
be admitted in another. The power to raise
taxes, he said, fs contained in the fame article
of the canflitution, which fays Congrels (hall
raise armies. And if they could del.-gate the
power of raising an army to the President,
why not do the (anie with refpedt to the power
of raiting taxes ? He supposed the house
v. otild next hear of provisional taxes, to be
Milled if the Frefident fh.ill think fit. Mr. G.
therefore thought the principle inadmillible.
If the circumstances oi the Union required an
army; let it be raised; if not, he wished to
give no power to raise it ; especially as the
President, if he saW necefTary, could call Con
gress together, if he (hould find that the cir
cuiMances of the country required "it. Mr.
G. thought the house had already decided
that no additional army was necelfary at pre
sent, in agreeing to an additional regiment of
artillefry ; as the leleit committee, when they
brought in that bill, had the report of the Se
cretary of War before them, which dated, be
sides the regiment of artillery, that other ad
ditional force would be necelfary, and having
reported no other, U Wis to be (uppoled they
thought-no other necefTary. But if it was
thought, tlie lioule had not gone far enough,
he was-wllling to go .flinhei", but not willing
to transfer their power to judge of the pro
priety of raiting an army.
Mr. Dan a hoped this bill would not be re
jetted on its firft reading. It required no la
boured arguments to prove that the motion
might be made; but more than had been ad
duced to (hew that it ought to be adopted.—
He thought the gentleman from Mafiachufetts
ought not to have been surprized at this mo
tion, because it was best calculated for excit
ingalarm. . It was said the Senate proceeded
in a similar way on the bill sent up from this
Houle for a repeal ps the (lamp adi; bu.t that
queliion had already been agreed upon in the
Senate on a diftintt proposition, and there was
therefore no necefiity tor going again into if.
The gentleman from Pennsylvania had said,
that when the house agreed upon an
al regiment of artillery, they negatively deci
ded against any other (landing force. The
gentleman might put what confirmation he
pleased upon that vote; he could aflure him
for himfelf than he had no such idea when he
voted.
This bill, Mr. D. said, provided for the
raising of a regular force, 111 cafe the Presi
dent (hall think the situation of tlw country
requires it; he is al.fo authorized to accept of
the ferviees of volunteer corps. The bill
could be amended in any manner which gen
tlemen thought proper. But the gentleman
from Pennsylvania does not know what a pro-,
visional army means. He believed this was
no new principle; he believed it wa? attad
upon when the three additional regiments
were raised to the then existing corps. It was
in principle the fame as when an army is di
rected to be raised, but where the President
has power given him to'fufpend the raising of
it, if he (hall fee necelfary.
Mr. Sewai.l said, that though the present
motion be not irregular in point of form, yet it
is a manner of proceeding very objectionable
at this time. His colleague had complained
of this motion bsjng afurprife upon the house.
He had good reason so to conlider it. And
the House will consider whether it is expedi
ent, without entering into a consideration of
the bill, without feeing whether any'altcrati
ons could be made in it, (o as to render it more
agreeable to gentlemen, thus to attempt to
#£droy the bill. What was the .motive of the
gentleman from Virginia in making the moti
on, might easily be discovered. He had ob
tained leave of absence, which might have a
tendency to hurry him in his political course.
He wished to be heard on this subjeCt; but
this hurry of his to return home ought not to
hurry the House in its proceedings. Those
gentlemen who had determined to take this
course had the advantage of others who were
unprepared for such a motion.
This bill was said to be unconstitutional •,
but it wss.obferyable that gentlemen did not
themselves -r— objection. or they
would "° r Have had recourse to others of lit
~ne conl'equence. Mr. S. denied that the
House had already decided that ho farther ar
my was necefTary. When the committee for
the proteflion of commerce, and the defence"
of the country, had the additional regiment
of artillery under consideration, they had not
before them the report of the Secretary of
War, which.the gentleman from Pennsylva
nia had mentioned; that measure was ground
ed upon a resolution long since referred to
them. What, he asked, was the amount of
the objections. to this.bill! Will it be said
that the House cannot authorize the Presi
dent to begin to raise an army two months
from this time \ And iffo,. may they not fay
he may doit upon certain contingencies 1 But
if gentlemen relied upon this objection,, they
might fay that an army (hould be raised, but
not until a certain time, or until a certain',
contingency (hall have taken place.
With refpett to the expediency of the mea
sure, there was a great variety of opinion.—
Some gentlemen think the danger of our si
tuation greater than others; some think it is
not only probable that predatory attacks will
be made, but that part of our territory may be
taken pofTeflion of. If we were to discover
the fleets of Franee approaching with an in
tention of landing men 011 our shores ; or to
hear of a lauding from the Miffiflippi in the
state of TennefTee, would it not be desirable
that the President should have the power to
take advantage of voluntary enlistments, and
to raise an army of »0,000 men ? He believed
it would. The expence will not be gone into
except it be necefTary, and he saw no danger
that could arise from placing this power in
the hands of the President. For though miH
tia-men might be de.pended upon to repel any
iudden attack, their continuance in the field
could not be relied upon. If the militia was
whcSlly under the authority of the U. States
and under the command of officers appointed
by them, they might be more relied upon ;
b it as they are under the authority of the se
veral dates, and commanded by officers in
fonie cases appointed by the states, and in o
thers by themselves, and in many parts with
out arms, he did not think the* ought entire
ly to be relied upon. Or will gentlemen fa.y,
that the people in the southern states, in cafe
of attack, are to rely upon the militia of the
eastern states to march for their relief ? Sure
ly it would be much better to enlist men from
amongst: themselves, where danger threatens
the molt,to form.anarmy to repel any such at
tack.
Mr. S. said, if this army was proposed to be
raised immediately, it would be objefted a
gainst it, that no one could fay it would cer
tainly be wanted ; and now it is proposed to
be raised, in cafe there (hould appear a necefii
ty for it, it is called an extraordinary measure.
Thus, it was true, gentlemen would prevent
effett.ual means of defenc£ being gone into;
but, as he eonceived, though there is now no
immediate occasion for these troops, there
might be in the recess of Congress, he wish„
ed to give the President the power to raise
them, if he should fee occasion.
Mr. Harper believed, notwithstanding
what had been advanced by the gentleman
from Pennsylvania (Mr. Gallatin) that this
was a very unprecedented measure ; because
however prepared the House may be, on some
occasions, at the firft bllifh of a business, to
decide upon theabftratt principle, yet it was
perfeftly novel in their proceedings to reje£t
a bill on its firft reading, .which contains such
a variety ot proportions, and which are capa
ble of such a variety of modifications, as the
present. Itwasalfoas little consonant with
the present situation of the country as it was
with their ul'ual modes of proceeding. The
allusion to the dccifiouon the bill for repealing
the (lamp aft (as hadbeenfhiwn) was noway
applicable. He could fee no Other vie* w» a
proportion of this kind bur a determination to
refill every measure tor the defence of the
country. If the intention had not been to de
ftioy the bill, it would have been flittered to
have taken its usual course, and attempts
would have been made to amend it. It a pro
visional army was not liked, gentlemen might
have had the army immediately railed; or, it
10,000 men were too many, fewer miglit have
beea proposed. If gentlemen did not think
the army immediately neceflary, and did not
cluife to leave it -with the Prelident to judge,
of that necessity, they might make it to de
pend upon a declaration of war by France, on
an inv»f,on, or in caie Viftor Hughes were to
1 brine his Black troops, or fern* his threatened
frigates against uJ, or if an infurreftion thould
be excited by our enemy, then the President
should be empowered to'raife an army.
But gentlemen (ay this bill ought to bt re
jetted, because it is uneonftitutional. Could
gentlemen be serious in makingthisobjetlioii f
Were troops ever raised in a different
And if they tiad the power to authorize the
President to raise troops immediately,-they
foiild certainly do it under such contingencies
as they thought proper. Did not Congress
entrust the President with the dilcretionary
power of borrowing money, of in some cales
fixing salaries, &c. which powers were equal
ly veiled in them with the powerof raising ar
mies j and this mull be the cafe, except gen
tlemen in/ifl that Congress should itielf do all
the afls committed to it; and if so, they mult
always be in tefiion.
But the gentleman from Pennsylvania fays,
that if this power be delegated to the Presi
dent, Congress may as well entrufl the Preli
dent with the power of raiting provisional
taxes. He had no hesitation in faying, that
he believed this might be done ; that the
house might determine upon a tax, and au
thorize the collecting of it, only in cafe the
President thould find it neceffiiry, or in cafe
a certain event thould;take pl*ce.
With refpeft, then, to the expediency of
the measure. He did not speak of the expe
diency of raiting 20,000 men, because any
other number might be determined upon, but
as to the thing itfelf. What is the internal
and external flateof this country ? Do we not
know that the enemy has in view a plan upon
which they place great reliance, of gaining
over to their cause a certain class of men who
abound in the southern parts of this country,
and by whose means they intsnd to subju
gate or d,e(lrey the country ? We do know
this; gentlemen from the southern states
know it; yet they fay it is impoflible to raise
any regular force to repel the enemy. He
could not believe, that when we had to meet
an enetpy, who has always fought by
of domeftif infurreilion, who is now lubvert
ing the motl ancient governments irt the
world by these means, it would be confident
with any maxim of common sense, to be un
prepared for the worst.
Gentlemen rely upon the militia ; but do
they not he the difficulty there is attending
the adoption of any regular plan for training
the militia. That great opposition. is given
to the bill for. newly .organizing that force,.,
and that, according to the present organiza
tion, it would be a work of time and difficulty
to draw an effectual force to the quarter where
an attack might be made, betides that there
is a great want of arms in the militia. 'He
would not speak of the other enemy which we
had withi*4«r£wn hnforn, and Upon which,
nelttppoftd, the French great-relied, be
cause he did not. believe that enemy exittea
.to any extent. As to the Intentions of some
gentknieA, he was not bound to pronounce
his opinion upon them ; he was not obliged
to fay that he believed that there are indivi
duals in this country who would be glad to
fee a French force in it ; or that there are
those who carry on a correspondence with a
foreign country, or that the ineafures pursued
abroad inimical to the interests of this coun
try, are not concerted at home. He would
not fay that he had such a belief ; but he
would not fay he had not. As to there be
ing any number of tljis description of persons,
who could be relied hpon by a foreign nation,
he repelled the idea with disdain. He knew
the American people, and he knew them bet
ter than to believe any such thing. He knew
that they loved their country ; that they
would sometimes dispute onpolitical fubjeils,
but when the finger of violence.was pointed
at them, they would feel the family spirit and
repel all attacks with one heart. As to the
few persons which tHere might be of a con
trary spirit, he did net believe any provision
was neceflary as to them ; he believed thf
courts of justice Would take care of thele per
sons. ' Whiltt they remain behind their bat
teries, they do little harm ; and, if they come
forward, the. remedy would be found in the
exifling laws. But the other foe, formidable
by its numbers, in a part of the cofintry
where the population is thin; in a climate
favourable to the health of these people, and
unfavourable to the health of perions of a
different description ; formidable, because of
the contingency to the quarter from whence,
an attack may be exported, he wilhed for an
etie£lual force to tlrike that foe, whenever or
whereve/ it may shew its head.
What, said he, is our external situation I
Do we not-fee the nation with whom we are
at vaiiance, find quarrels with every country
who is not tlrong enough to retift her ?" Does
fee not injure 11s on every fide! Do we not near
of her depredatory threats, and the mifchiefs
the has the powerof doing 11s, urged as rea
sons why we thouldfubmit to her ? And yet,
after being told of these designs, shall we fit
with our arms folded, and make no defence I
For the measures already taken, will be no
thing without this. Fortifications would be
nothing, except supported by a fufficient
number of infantry and cavalry.
What, he alked, is the situation of the-Weft
Indies > Were they not told that Viftor
Hughes, with 5,000 of his bell troops, is ready
to make a blow upon the southern country,
whenever the word of command shall be giv
en i They knew that these troops existed ;
they had been seen, and the desperate charac
ter of their leader was alio krtown. Yet,
with this enemy upon our threshold, within
four or five days fail of 11s, we flill fold our
arms, and fay we will make no defence.
When he refleflrd upon these things, he
could not help deploring that fatal blindness,
that stubborn spirit of pppofition in certain
gentlemen, which could hide from their view
the dangers of oiirprefent iituation ; that, at
a period when the veil is rending from before
the eyes of the community ; when those who
have been the motl blind out of doors begin
to fee, that those gentlemen in this house
who from their ancient birth and fortunes'
might be ftippofed to pofiefj the true Ame
rican spirit, thould ttill perfitl in their blind
their deflrutf ive course, was greatly to be la
mented. And though he could not doubt
the fate of this bill, yet that there thould U
a tew men found supporting measures which
tend directly to the definition of the coun
try, he could not help lamenting.
(T&il delate to if J
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY EVENING, MAT 5.
Philadelphia, May 4.
On the third instant, Mr. Sitgreaves com
municate<a to the President of the United
States the address and memorial of the ci
tizens of Bristol Township, in the county
of Philadelphia, corresponding in its terms
with the late addrjjfs of the citizens of the
city and liberties ; to which the President
has been pleased, this day, ti> give the fol
lowing arifwer :
7*p the Citizen! of Bristol Town/hip, in the
County of Philadelphia, in the Jlate of
Pennsylvania.
GENTLEMEN,
Your address and memorial to the Presi
dent, the Senate und House of. Represen
tatives of the Unired States, has been pre
sented to me, by one of your representa
tives in congress, Mr. Sitgreaves.
The sentiments and determinations, ex
prefled in this address, are iu h as become
the sincere lovers of their country, in dan-I
geious times: in proportion to yotir fatis
fa&ion, with the endeavors of your own
government, mud be your alarm and re
lentment, at the wrongs, menaces and ig
dignities which have been so profufely and
so undeservedly committed against it.
Those who have found divisions among
the people, in so many republican nations,
so favorable to their views of ambition, a.
varice and conquest, might naturally build
their hopes of success in this country on
similar foundations, but they will find them
selves disappointed.
Threats to extinguilh the independence
of the United States, or. to partition or,
dismember them in the twenty-third year of
their age, could never be made, but by
persons as profoundly ignorant of the pow
er of the state, as grefsly mifinformed of
the spirit and resources of the people.
Nothing in the course of my life has gi
ven me a more exquisite pleasure than the
frank acknowledgments, from various quar
ters, and in your address in particular, of
a sense of the bjfcfixngs you enjoy, as mem
bers of this happy and highly favored com
munity, under the truly free and equal go
vernment of the United States from which
these blessings proceed ; your freedom and
independence deserve to be maintained at
every hazard.
While the decided declaration of your
perse& and grateful approbation of the con
duit heretofore pursued by the executive
authority cf government, is an high re
ward and an ample falisfa&ion to me, Your
honorable engagement to support etery
measure, which may be thought neceflary
to secure the constitution, freedom and in
dependence of the United States, ipuft
jjive pleasure to every lover of his country.
i... ; JOHM APAtlj. -
Philadelphia, May 4.
At a.meeting of a number of the inhabitants
of Harford county, Maryland, conven
ed by public notice, at Harford town,
on Saturday the 28th of April, 1799,.
Resolved unanimously, That the foflow
ingaddrefsbeprefentedto the President, .Sen
ate, and House of Representatives in Con
gress. .
Afluated by a fincere'and ardent desire
of peace with all the world, we have viewed
with much fatisfa&ion measures taken
by our Executive for an accommodation of
the differences unhappily subsisting between
this country and. the French republic, and
very mueh regret that they have not been
met by a like disposition on the other part ;
and as it appears highly important at this
momentous crisis, that the unanimity of
our sentiments and determinations (hould
appeaV manifeft—We think proper tt> de
clare, that we are fully determined, firmly
to support in all Situations our independence
and the government of our choice.
Signed by order of the meeting.
SAMUEL HUGHES, Chairman.
A true copy.
Ordered that the chairman transmit the
aboVe to be presented as addrefled.
The foregoing having been presented, the
President returned the following
ANSWER.- .
To the Inhabitants of Harford County, in the
State of Maryland.
CENTUM F.V,
Your virtuous refohitfons at Harford
town, unanimously adoptedon the 28th day
of last month, have been presented to me,
by yo#r ReprefcntatiVe in Congress Mr.
Matthews?
The fatisfa&ion you manifeft, iirthe mea
sures taken far an accommodation of differ
ences subsisting between this country and
the French Republic is very agreeable to me.
The determination to support in all Gtu
ations your independence'and the govern
ment of yonr choice is worthy of freemen
and faithful citizens, and the public decla
ration of such sentiments at this time, in or
der to fliew the unanimity of the people is
good paJicy, as it tends to confirm the con
fidence of the whole nation in one another
and to increase its refpedlability and consi
deration with foVeign nations.
JOHN ADAMS-
Philadelphia, May 3d, 1798.
For the Gasettk of the United States.
How gratifying must it be to the Amer
can mind to observe the noble lardor and
spirit that is pervading all ranks and de
scriptions of people, and how highly con
ducive must be its effefts to give the lie to
the b?.fe imputations lately call upon our
national charadler—and under which if we
had remained supine and silent, and not
gloriously evinced the contrary by assem
bling together and freely giving our senti
ments, opinions ind determinations, other
nations might warrantablyhaVf-giVeira de
gree of credit to the a fie rt ion of that apos
tate Perigord, that ws were a divided
pie, and that France by the agency of a
party that (he had in this country, could so
impede the operation of government that
we (hould be obliged to set quietly down
under mere harmless expreflions of resent
ment. That (he had some reason to calcu
-1 ate so, I am afraid circumstances force us
to acknowledge ; and that we have some
chara&ers amongst us that would wish it to
be the cafe, and have labored to impose up
on- her the belief that they could effed their
views mud be conceded : but thank God,
they willfully deceived themselves aud gross'
ly deceived their dear allies—for however
upon particular topics or measures there
may be a diversity of opinion, wh# now
dare assert, that when our national honor*
and independence are wounded and
that we will not all with one voice and one v
accord nobly step forward in their defence,and
rifle ourlives andfortunes to maintain them i
Yes, the world will, and must bejieve it,
after the free and unbiafled expreflions o(
the general will— pouring in from all quar
ters of the United States, Publifiiers of
news-papars, you are in duty bound to cir
culate the addresses through the world, and •
let the diredtory themselves fee how they
have over-rated the influenced their par
ty, and foolifhly misled themselves.
That there -was a cor.fider'able national
bias in their favor they have had reason to
believe, and as far as foreign attachment
can be juftified, it was a laudable aud hon
orable one in this country : but to have *
counted upon its operating to such an ex
test, as to-liave blinded us against our own
interest and tronsr, and to secure our (üb
miflion to injury and iufult, mud have pro
ceeded 'from the wicked tnifreprefentations
of some vipers in our bofqm who depended
upon French agency to overturn our
government. But their machinations have,
and will prove abortive—for with such an
American-like spirit as is now kindlltig from
<sne end of the country to the other, I de
fy their p'ots even with the aid of an array
of thof? treipendous heroes that have borne
down before them the combined troops of
Europe 5 for their wonderful efficiency and
success has arisen in a great degree from the
ardorand'enthufiafm tSat a&uated them,
and the- divisions of those they attacked.
In this country they vrould have to encoun
ter the fame ardor and enthusiasm, height
ened by the convi&ion of the glory and
justice of our cause. Yes, they would have
to eontend with the A merit an Youth—the
fame who are voluntarily coming forward
and pledging themselves to their country
and the world to be ready at the firft call to
defend their rights, liberty and indepen
dence. With fuSh they would fir.d it more
difficult to contend than with the hireling!
of monarchs, for even led on by Buonaparte
himfelf, th#y would run no small ri(k of be.
ing Burguoyned or Cornwallised—The
least retribution the fame party could make
to Fran re for iheir BUfreprcientations,
would be to give the directory some whole
some warnings against attempting an invar
fion of this country ; for thole fame men '
(coming with this design)' that were once
received with plaudits and acclamations,
would now be greeted with a bear's hug a
hug of death—l feel elated that it is the
youth of my native city'th'at have set the
glorias example of publishing to the wortd
theii fixed determinatipn to fupyort their '
government and offering their personal fer,
vice for its defence ; and as I am convinced
the fame fpiiit exists in the youth through
out the Union, I hope they will unsni
mdufly adopt the fame method of making
it known; and not be detered by the '-
base attempts at ridiculing the aflociation
that has and will appear from presses of a
certain cast ; but rather deem it a good
criterion to judge that it will be regarded
as highly honorable by the worthy and vir
tuous class of our fellow citizens. I have n<j
doubt it will prove acceptable and gratify
ing to our worthy chief magiltrate,
raise ycur,name high in the estimation of
the world, and be productive of the efftft
expressed in the compreheiifive chortlj of
Hopkinfon's muehadmiredfong,aiidthat by
so doing-—" Peace and fafety we (hall find."
A Philadclphian.
Further tranjlations from German Papers, re
ceived by the America, Captain Hardy.
PARIS, March 6.
THE Pope, attended by the Elders of his
palace and of the city of Rome, now the
chief place of the Roman Republic, and an
escort of two French Officers, has left Rome,
and gone to Florence ; frpm rhence he joes
to Venice or Leghorn, and thence to Malta.
The Directory, speaking of this fubjett, in
their meflTage to the Council of Five Hundred,
thus write : " The Pope lias himfelf found,
that he cannot remain in Rome ; that tlie re
volution is complete, that liberty will be efta
bli(hed, and that .he must give up his power ;
that free Rome will purify herfelf from des
pots, and their influence."
General Berthier wrote to General Buona
parte, from the capital at Rome, dated Fe
bruary 16, as follows :
" With your conquests, Ci<'Z en General,
France is acquainted. The army under my
command was ordered to inarch againti Rome,
in order to avenge the aflalli nation of our biatfe
General Duphot. The Trench Army ha\f
done so, apd Rome is free. On] the J 4 th, .{he
afTejnblecl people declared the Independence
of this immense place. A deputation waite
upon me wi th congratulations on my entrance
into their city. When I arrived at the capi
. tol, I declared in the name ot the French Re
public the Independence of the Roman Re
public. A deputatidn waited upon me in tne
name of the Roman People, and tendere in«
an Olive Branch. I took it, and said, as tnc
deeds of General Buonaparte had opera tea to
produce the freedom of Rome, ' r f. ! ; eive
that branch for'him, .to whom I Ihould rans
ferit in the name of the people ot tniscuj.
I therefore fend it to you. . >
I have to thank yoii for placing me in
ation in which I have had the happi' »
proclaim the liberty of Rome. K L
furaaces of my
The treaty whereby MuUiaulen m S UI,t B 3<vi) united with therftgnch Republic is agreed apa
tj byfhe Council'of Five Hundred. ord
A meeting of Catholic Priests was called J mai
jr the chuiing of a Bishop of Paris, but it has the
een forbidden by Government. • 0I t
The famous Gregoire has addreued the to 1
Jrand Inquifuor.of Spain on the fubjedl of pof
he Spanish Inquisition. He recommends its
nnihilation.
Citizen Boflbn of Dijon has laid before Ge- i
eral Buonaparte and the Directory, the plan
of. a floating veflel, which is fire proof, to
arry from 50 to 100 guns, and from 1 to
0,000 men. . . b " :
Government have publilhed a notice to the I th<
following effect : The French are forbidden
n England. Buonaparte remarks that an un
lertaking which has been hitherto carried on
vith so much earneftnef3, must be continued
vith all possible exertion, that the Bnttfh
Vliniftrv may at laftopen their eyes to the dan
ger which threatens them, and perhaps that
prjde, which has hitherto prevented it, may an
buffer a peace to be concluded upon just and
honourable conditions.
The Comtniffionerof Government at Calais
has thin written to the Minifterof the Interior.
" I hold it fufficiently important to give you 2C
the information that the Citoyenne Fournier,
on the 12th ult. was delivered of fix living j (
children, three boys and three girls, but th
which died soon after they were born."
FRANKFORT, March 10. P r
We have news of -iM'.iortance from Basle
(Switzerland). The French and the tr»ops ca
Df Berne and Solothum have had hree bloo- U j
dy battles near Niddan, Lengnau and Doru
bach. Mod of families of oonfequence ,
have left Bern for Luzerne. The Switzers
fought courageously, but were overcome by
the French. At Lengnau, they loft 8 cannon ej
ind had jooprifoners made, many-os whom h
were officers. In another battle, they loft g
upwards of 1000 men, and some hundreds Q |
sprung into the sea. t-
It has been said here that Solothurn was J
given into the hands of the French through «
treachery of the commandant.
BASLE, March 3.
A war between France & Bernefeems inevitable. Y el-
terday ended the armiitice, and Erlach lat oft
for Berne to procure full power's from that
government, which were granted ;'it'is be- u
lieved that General Brune will be-attacked at
Payerne. A great enthusiasm pervade the b
youth ps Berne. I n de Vaud opinions f
are divided. It is said that an attion has tak
-B>i place near Arberg, and that the French are q
worsted.
HAGUE, March 3.
The commiflfioners have informed the Di- I
niftory that they find it impofTible to com
plete the plan of the new constitution before
the joth of March.
March 6. A new man of war,' of 68 guns,
called the Dogger Bank, wasyeflerday launch- 3
ed at Rotterdam, in the prefenee of a number t
of the reprefentativeg of the people, the
French minister Delacroix, Admiral De Win- t
ter, Gen-Joubert, &c. A grand salute was ,
fired on the occasion, and the master builder
was honoured with the fraternal kiss by the
French minifhtr. 1
Strict the month of November lad there t
have he«ixbuijfcaf Rotterdam, two (hips of 68, t
will be laid for another 68. ]
The veiiels damaged in the late engage- (
ment are repairing with the greatest expedi- ,
tioh.
I
COPENHAGEN, March 6.
Since the palling of the French decree for 1
seizing all neutral velfels with British manu- ]
fattures on board, the Danish (hips the Nor- ,
way Lion, the Two Sifters, Maria Charlottu,
and the Pandora have been taken.
CADIZ, Feb. 16.
On the nth our fleet returned into port,
after convoying a number orVeflels for Ame
rica to a fufficient distance. One of the ships
*is not, however, yet arrived- It-is eXpefted j
daily. It is said that the British admiral was t ,
informed, by a frigate being sent off with the ■
news, of the failing of this fleet, in .26 hours, |
and that he failed in fevenhours with fourteen
Ihips to join ten that,were cruising off Cadiz. ]
Hearing of this dispatch, an advice vessel was j
fentotf after admiral Mazaredo to give him
the information that he might return to port
as soon as poflible. Admiril Mazaredo was
very sick whilst at sea.
PARIS, March 4.
Megnaud has demanded a palfage for 6000 '
French through Basle, and threatens in cafe
of refufat to life force to obtain it, and togar
rifon the place. iJJerne-continiies her milita
ry operations ; all youiig men of up
wards are put in arms ; the .peasants mean to
flip port the with all their might,
"and the women afiift at the building of the
forts ; provifion3 are plenty : tlid force ex
pected to be raised in Switzerland will pro
! bably amount to 100,000 men.
Yesterday the Directory sent a medage to
both Councils, announcing the following oc
currences at Rome ; Te deum wasfung in all
the churches, at which 14 Republican cardi
nals assisted ; the municipality, and the nati
onal guard are organized. The Pope left
Rome on the 20!h of February under escort;
his arms of state were brolf.cn in pieces- Mo
numents are to be ereited tothe memory of
Duphot and Badeville ; an ambafl'ador is sent
to Paris.
VIENNA, March 3.
The ambafTador of the French Republic,
citizen Bernadot, had a private audience of
his Majesty the Emperor, yesterday, when he
delivered his credentials.
The moment the French took pofleffion of
Rome, they ordered the confifcation of all
the .property belonging to the fubjefts of
RufTia, England and Portugal. It is also said
that a French force has marched against Ca
pua, and it is feared they will treat the King
of the Two Sicilies as an enemy, on account
of the protection the emigrant Romans re
ceive from him.
ROME, Feb. ij.
The moment the French entered this city,
the" general levied i contribution of 4 millions
in specie, two millions in provisions, and three
thousand horses. The murderers of general
Duphot have fled. The tree of liberty was
planted before the capitol, the day on. which
the solemn mass is performed at the Vatican
'on the inauguration of the Pope.
Our Republic will consist of all the pro
vinces guaranteed to the Pope by the treaty
ofTolintino. His Holiness is guarded in his
palace by 500 men, and seals are placed on
his oalaces as well as upon those of ablent
cardinals.
The French have demanded fotty thousand
bufheli of grain and other provisions of the
eonrt of Naples. The niipiber of French
troops fn this place amount to 12,000.
CONSTANTINOPLE, Jan. 30.
Betides the numerous laml forces preparing
ipainft the rebel Pauvan Oglu. thc Porte has j ba
irdered the whole ftset to be fitted oiit and j co
nanned : 11,000 sailors are to be enlisted in £e
he harbours of the Black Sea, and the islands ,
>f the Archipelago. The fleet will be ready
:o fail the middle of March, destined it is sup- ot
sofed for the Archipelago.
STRASBURG, March 4.
We received a repor this moment, that ca
our troops hare taken pofleffion of the caitie 1
Dornach in Solothurn. General Schauen. br
burg's army, coufifls of 30,000 men, and pr
that of General Bruna, but 20.C0G. If an
the ruptures take place, both will immedi
ately commence a vigorous attack. The N
army of is 50,000 strong. ■
PARIS, March 5.
The Pope has left Rome for Florence, .
and it is faidjie will proceed to Malta.
March-9,
General Maffena, and the comraiffaries ,
Monge and Danou, arrived in Rome on the j ; n
20th of February. | a
The fate of Rome, (fays Poultier in his tf
Journal) will produce a general change t ;
throughout Italy. Naples, Turin, &c. will t ;
soon have a Dirtdory, and a National Rc- p
preftntation. ci
The Dirl&ory has ordered the society, f,
called the Conllitutional circle, to be fliut
up.
Gen. Berthier has demanded of the king- t(
dom of Naples 20,000 oxen. c
The right wing of the army of England
extends from Bologna to Oftend. The
hradquarcers are to be at Dunkirk. Gen. (
Buonaparte having obtained the best charts
of the Englilh coast, particularly of that of
Dover, it is supposed. that in that part a
landing will firflrbe attempted.
ROME, February 20." c
It is reported, that a revolution has com- r
menced-in Sicily. The people had fougWt r
with the nobility, in which many lives were
loft on both fides. ,
The iufpeftor of the French artillery has j
been cashiered, for indecent behaviour in St. j
Peter's chapel. <
The king of Naples has taken pofleffioa j
ot the duchy of Benevento, formerly betak
ing to the Pope. 1
The French Jleet lately Jlat'toned at Corfu, ,
has entered the ports of Sicily. |
PARIS, Feb. 22. ,
Thfc duke of Ghigi has been forced to pay ,
a eorttributian of 200,ai00 Roitritti dollara ,
to the French. ,
Our hew government is to be formed en
tirely upon the ancient system : (Praetors
and Coniuls, &c.)
The futii of two millions found in the
pope's palace here, an'd immediately sent to
the head quarters of the French gen. Ber
thier. The pope Was himfelf commanded
to an account of all the treasures of
his palace ; he arifwered, that it was alrea
dy in the hands of thq French ; one ring on
ly excepted, which he remarked was heredi
tary to hi» office. - .1 _
previous to thie efltfy of tne French,
twelve cardinals and four prelates, were de
livered to general Berthier, as hostages for
the fafety of the republican troops. They
still are in close confinement-
The property of those who did not chufe
to trust to republican mercy, has been feiz
> id and con si feat ed.
A cardinal, a duke, and a Roman pre-
J late, are to be sent to Paris, to implere the
s | pardon of the Directory for the murder,of
; general Duphot.
, j The Pope's ambafl'ador has been set at
I . liberty, ind it oh hi# return home. ..
■ | The property of cardinal Maury, has"
been seized at Rome, and will be fold for
t the Benefit of the French republic.
BRESLAU, March 3. T
A letter from St. Petersburg, under date
of the 20th February, contains the circum
-3 stances ofthelafl moments ps the late King
_ or Poland. He expired on the morning of
- the I2th, after a short indisposition. His fu-.
- neral ceremony will be performed with the
5 fame magnificence as that of the late Em
' press. On the 2zd Feb. the Emperor, at
f tended by all the court, visited the corps,
. and put on his head the royal crown.
A palace in St. Petersburg is furnifhed
0 in a superb style for the reception of the
- ducbefs of Wirtemberg, mother to the pre
' sent empress of Russia ; who intendstofpend
the remainder of herdays in that place.
• COPENHAGEN, March 3.
We hear from Dunkirk, that three Da
's nifh (hips, with Englifli manufactured goods
II on board, have been taken by the French fc
sent into that port.
:, HA G 'U"E, March 13.
>f In fourteen days time, tie citizens con
lC vened in afl'emblies, are to give in their opin
r ions refpefting a new constitution for the
Batavian Republic. Those however, who
jf are enemies to the present order of things,
d will not be permitted to attend those _mee
-- tiiigs.
g
BOLOGNA, March 13.
The French, to theamount of 3600, failed
from Otranto to Sicily, The Pope, escor
ted by 100 French huflars, was brought by
f, force to Sienna in Tufcany, and thence, it
7S is affirmed, to Venice. All the antiquities
of Rome are to be carried t» Paris.
al
" FRANKFORT, March 10
tn According to the news from Raftadt, it
was decided, that the whole of the left Bank
of the Rhine should be ceded to the French
: y To-day a courier from Raftadtpafled through
here, on his way to Berlin. The French
lt army remain in the fame position. After
Berne had been taken by the French it was
id thought they would proceed further into
16 the heart of Switzerland, where every thing
is very dismal. The principal mechanics
have dismissed their workman, and fled from
the country. Twelve of the most refpe&a
ig ble trading houses have removed to OfFen
bach. The citizen Oohs, who Ins so much 1 -
contributed to the revolution, had been n re- |
ceived at Bade, on his return from Paris, in _
a very formal manner by a large deputation
of the. citizens.
ITALY, March 2. J
In is believed, that the court of Naples
cannot avert the dangers which threaten it.
The French ha»e required of the king of
both Sicilies, the immediate difmifial of the d<
prime miniltet Adlon, as well as the Eritifh
ambassador there. _ tc
Prince Auguitus of England, it yet at
Naples.
v - ■' -■ . ir
By this day's Mail. t i
t
NEW-YORK, May 4.
Yesterday arrived the brig Trio, capt.
Miller, 12 days from Antigua. Capt. M.
informs that the (hip Pigou, latelv taken by «
a French privateer, on her way from Iwdia f}
to Philadelphia, and since retaken bya dri- j
tifh frigate, was to fail from there to Mar-
tinco, in 8 days, in order to get convoy for
Philadelphia ; he second mateind super
cargo of the Pigo* had arrived at Antigua l ii
from Guadalonpe.
The ftiip Minerva of and from New-York c
to Gnadaloupe is taken by the Englilh and
carried into Antigua. C
f<
ANSWER c
Of the Prelident of the United States to
the Address of the New-York Chamber 3
of Commerce. v
GENTLEMEN, i a
The resolutions »f the Chamber of Com- v
merce of New-York, unanimously adopted 0
on the 20th of this month, transmitted to ®
me by your order, are txpreffive of senti
ments worthy the American people. v
Yciur approbation of the system of the U
nited States, and the measures of their
government to pursue and preserve it ; af
fords- much fatsfa&ion to me in refle&ing 1
on what is passed, and encouragement to *
1 perfeterance in future.
In tftimatipg our rights as an independent
nation far atove any condderations ofincon
• T ' « f 1
' venience which.may attend the means of pre
serving and defending them ; and in resolv
ing to support such measures as the wisdom
of the government may find necessary ; and
' to demonstrate fey your unanimity that all
I efforts to divide us will be rain—you con
car in the spontaneous and uaanimpus emo
' tions of all good citizens, whose sentiments
8 have hitherto been made public.
JOHN ADAMS.
: Philadelphia, Apr I 27, 1798.
j NEW-THEATRE.
f ""
The lajl night of the Company's performing
L- ■ this Season. . ,
THIS EVENING, May $.
If- ' Will be prelected a COMEDY, called
- WIVES AS THEY WERE,
r AHD
T MAIDS AS THEY ARE.
(BT DESIRE)
e After the Comedy an oecafional entertainment
confuting of Songs, Dances, and SpeSacle,
celebrating
St. TAMMANY'S FESTIVAL,
e IN THE TEMPLE OF LIBERTY.
>f Glee— 41 Our Country'* like a (hip of war."—
by Meflrs Marshall, Darley, Fox, Hardinge,
. Franeis, Bliflitt, Warrell, 4tn.
II Song—YANKEE UOODLE—rar MarOialls
Song—PRESIDENT'S MARCH—mr Fox.
is The dances bye mr and mrs Byrne, mailer
>r Byrne, mr Warrell, junr. miss Mibourne, &c.
Military Colours.
At C. GULLAGER's
te Portrait and Ornamental Painting Rooms,
3- No. 50, South Fourth, next to Chefnut ftrect,
G , opposite the Friends' Meeting,
jf "pAINTING on silks for Military and other ot-
A namental purpose? (in a. raanntr peculiar to
himfelt) durable, not to be injured by the weather,
,e Which for'elegance of design, trutjl and beaucy of
n- colouring, neatness and mallerly execstioa, has
at not be.n equalled by George Rutter and Co.
s, FLAGS and DRUMS
Furnished with all poflible dispatch, on the mcft
;( J reafonahle terms.
Ie Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck
e. ets, Cornices, &c. &c. executed in (file (not that
superb stile of modern alegance peculiar to G. R.)
but in a workman like manner, peculiar to an ar
till matter of hi? profeflion.
Mr. GtfLLAOea, from a number of year's expe-'
rienc# in Europe and this country, flatters himfelf
a . that profeflional talents, punituality, and reason-
j 3 able demands, will meet the entire approbation of
those gentlemen who will please to c ill at his Paint
* ing Rooms. §6w may 5.
FOR SALE,
THE whole or, on. half of a PLANTATION
on the river. Delaware, between Burliogton
n- and Bordenton (two miles from the latter), con
he talning about 400 acres ;60 of which are bottom
meadow, and 100 wood land; thera are 30 acres
of red clover to cut this year (exclusive of tnea*
s » dow) but will exceed jo the next ; and any quan
:c- tity of manure may be had for the upland from the
meacow without injury.
An orchard of grafted fruit yielding between 60
and 70 hoglheads of excellent cider ; a dwelling
houfe with a barn, (table, granary and other ne
ed celTary buil ings go with one part in cafe of a di
ir- vision ; on the other are no improvements, but has
by one ot the mod elegant situations fer a house to be
seen on the river. The land is of good quality,
■ suitable for grazing or agriculture, and convenient
tofmarket by land or water. For terms apply to
the owner on the prcmifes.
Thomas J?- John.
May 5 eodtf
For Sale, or Charter!
1 THI SHIP
gh liberty
ch J LAYING at Vine Street Wharf
burthen per regiller two hundred
" lt -'*=£»rjeeiss? and eighty two tons. This veflel
38 has been about eighteen months off th# decks, and
it® lately returned from a voyage to Holland. She is
ng a prime fai!er,ca" be armed with less disadvantage
ies f° ' ,cr fl ow age than any velTel in thisport and may
! be sea at a moderate cxpesce. Apply tn
,m j JOHN SKrSIV,
ta " j Landenbergfi's Wharf.
:n- j may j
Xfte (Sa?ettc.
PHILADELPHIA,.
SATURDAY EVENING, Mats-
The Dispatches from our Envoys at
Paris, qorptarfinicated to Congrcfs yester
day. consist of a Letter dated February
7, which enclosed a copy of a Memorial
to the Minister of Foreign Relations,
delivered on the 3 v ft Jauu^jry—This Me-
lengthy, and contains a discuss
ion of all the fubjetts of dispute between
the French Government and that of the
United States.
In the letter of the 7th February, our
Envoys fay, "We have not yet received
any answer to this communication, and
should no notice be taken of it in a few
days, we {hall apply in a more explicit
manner for our paflports."
The whole will appear in this Gazette
in a few days.
Yesterday, the Houf of Representatives of the
United States were employed chiefly in discussing the
resolutions sent from the Senate, granting leave to
Mr. Pinckney, our late minister at the courts of
Great Britain and Spain, to receive the presents of
fered to him by thofs Courts After a debat« which
continued most of the fitting, the resolutions were
disagreed to, in the committee of the whole 44 to
38 ; and in the house; (the yeas and nays being call
ed) 49 to 37. Mr. Sewall from the committee to
whom was referred the bill for raiftng a provisional
army, reported the bill with sundry amendments,
which, with the bill were referred to the committee
s os tht whole on the (late of the Union. The usual
motion for adjournment to Monday was made, but
negatived 42 to 33 —of course the House fit to day.
In the course of the fitting, the following meflage
was read—
Gentlemen of the Senate, and
Gentlemen of the House of Representatives.
1 Now transmit to Congress copies of all the com
munications from our envoys extraordinary, receiv
ed since their arrival in Paris, excepting those be
fore presented by me to both Houses.
JOHN ADAMS.
United States, May 4, 17518.
These dispatches appearing to oOnfift chiefly of a
long memoir of our miniflers to the French Direc
tory, the reading of them was dispensed with, and
500 copies ordered to be printed.
Married—6n Monday by the Rev. Dr. Migaw,
Mr. Joihua Dawfon, to the amiable Mi£i Rebecca
Bell, both of this city.
married] —On Thursday Evening last,
1 by the Rev. Dr. Green, Robert Frazer,
EsQj. late ofChefter County, tcrMifs Mary
Ball, daughter of , Joseph Ball, Esq. of
this City.
The armed (hips Ganges and Hamburg Pac
ket, are purchased for the Uuited Statei.
' GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED,
Sloop Sally, Johnfen, Richmond, a days.
CLEARED,
Brig Eli2a, Vaughan, Gibraltar
L. Wentworth, Freeman, Wind for
Sch. Fanny Bfidger, Dunn, New-York,
t Brig Molly, Kilby, from hence has arrived
, at St. Thomas, after being plundered by a
French privateer.
Schr. Little Fanny, Fofdick, from hence
has arrived at St. Thomas.
From Tortola, per schooner Minerva—left
7 thert the iSth ult.
'• Schr. Parthenia, of New-York, captured
about 5 months since by the French, capt. and
mate taken out, recaptured by the British,
, r salvage paid out of the cargo, the remains in
the hands of an agent—'sloop Hannah of N.
- Y~rk retaken by the Britifti, capt. with the
French, the velTel and cargo delivered by the
mate to an agent of the recaptors.
Ship Margaretta, Folger, of New-York,
r sent in, cargo libelled and discharged, (hip
' failed for St. Thomas 13th uk.
Schr. Polly, of Beverly, bound to Jacque
r_ mel, veflel and cargo libelled.
g Sch. Miraculous Pitcher, of Baltimore,
r from Cape Francois to St. Thomas, sent in
,f on the 12th —cleared and allowed to proceed
u on the 16th ult.
The French brig Triumphant,' said to be
the fame that captured the New Jersey—and
fch. Chalfeur, that captured the Arab, were
" taken by the I.'Amiable ftigate and Scourge
(loop of war, and brptight in the nth April.
The captain of the Chafleur reported (hat the
at New Jersey was condemned previous to his
.) leaving PortS Rico. A gentleman however
r- who left that island very lotely, dated that it
was not not known, the suit was carried to
e-' a French court in Spanish St. Domingo, from
if appeals were generally made to the
1- court at Cape Francois.
of By the (chooner Minerva, Capt. Moody,
c " arrived at the fort, we learn that the (hip
Mary, of Philadelphia, was condemned at St.
Martins: and that the brig Twins, captain
Keeler, from hence to St. Thomas, was takf n
N in for adjudication.—The brig Ann, captain
>n Ri«ardo, of this port, bound to St. Thomas,
n- was taken by an English priv&teer, and reta
in ken by a Dani(h schooner, and carried into
es St. Thomas.
a- A schooner from Beverly (Ma(T.) bound to
Jacqueniel, out 22 days, was taken into Tor
tola and libelled fix days before the Minerva
failed, which was on the 15th of April.
The (loop Jane, Brown, of Nev-York, last
Z~ from Baltimore, b»und to Jacquemel, was
condemned at Tortola. '
The schooner Minerva,' , was captured
on her paflage from Laguira to Philadelphia,
c last November, and cleared after atedious de
t' tentionwith paying costs of suit. «
to NOTICE.
03* The YOUTH of the City of Phil
adelphia, the Diftrift of Southwark and the
Northern Liberties, ars requested to meet
at the City-Tavern, on Monday. morning
next at 11 o'clock precisely ; from thence
to wait on the President of the United
States with their Address. >
Samuel Relf . 1 Q
n( i Edward Bridgoj °
is Charles Hare, I 3
ge John Woodward, f h
Chs.W.Goldlborough m
Richard Ru(h. _ "
N. B. The Address ftillcontinuw at the
Library for signatures.
I II II ill 111 I <-»!«!
Fur the Gazette of list United States.
AN AMERICAN SONG.
futSE—King William's Mcrth.
- r ' ' ' ' I. ,
O'er /aii 1 Columbia's awful brow,
Diilc clouds convolving role ;
Till truth's bright rays dispersed the gloom,
And recognized her foes.
Chorus—Columbia (mile, thy sons are free,
Devoted to their liberty
' : n.
In freedom's temple Anarcht
Had lutk'd, (delusive sprite)
But Pjctriot'fm rent the veil,
And dragg'd him in into light.
Cliirut—Columbia smile, thy sons are free,
Our ADAMS guides our liberty.
M.
Before the fathers of the land,
In solemn ftite cofiven'd ;
The impious fiend was fore'd to (land j
His every fault unfereen'd.
Clorui—Columbia smiles, thy f«nsar- free,
t Thy terr pie glows with liberty.
IV.
They bid the mifcreani straight be gone.
Where night and chaos reign—
Placed Concord ot>Columbia's throne,
There"ever to remain.
Ccerut —Columbia smile, thy sons are free,.
For ord *r reigns with liberty.
V.
Who dare divide us ? Splirn the thought!
No " diplomatic ikill,"
With golden bribe, (hall e'er divide
Our government and will.
Chorus—Columbia smile, thy sons are fr«e,
For union crowns thy liberty.
VI.
The wondering world in mute surprize,
Saw peace and honor sway :
United, Jimr, sublime, we'll rife
Where honor point*the may.
Chorus—Columbia smile, thy sons are free,
And dare defend their liberty.
V I
Suflain'd by freedom's (ottering hand,
The rifingarts (hall Ihine ;
And lcienc* with her flow'ry wreath,
Each youthful brow entwine.
Chorus --Columbia smile, thy sons art free,
Forfcience graces liberty.
VIII.
Gay commerce with her fails unfurl'd,
Our brilliant'flag displays 5
Our stars (hall glitter through the world,
♦ And light it with their rays.
Chorus—Columbia smile, thvfons are free,
Thy commerce (hall protected be.
IX.
Thy copious bowl, bring, plenty bring ;
For joy the song (hall-crown ;
While we in chorus drink and sing *v
ADAMS and WASHINGTON.-
Chorus—Huzza! Huzza! Huzza 1 ye free,
Columbia smiles, at liberty.
From the Columbian Centinel.
7he abinston address' Parapbrafcd.
A Ballad.
In the metre of " Chevy Chafe."
THE Patriots of Abington
For fear of future harm,
Have met to pray, that Congress may
Not let our merchants " arm."
Lieutenants two, and s Squires two,
And Mejfrs three unite
With Deacon one, and Doflor one,
To draught the prayer aright.'
This sage committee thus cortipos'd
Of men whose knowledge great,
Extends o'er politics profound
Of Parilh, Town and State.
Church, state, militia-officers,
One man of faience eke 1
When their production cometh out,
What wonders will it speak ?
Yet strange to tell—furpafling strange !
The politicians seem,
Of differing'politicians' plans,
T'bave chose the vilest scheme.
What ! mull our vessels lay and rot 1
While foreigivfaUors come
In foreign (hips of ev'ry flag
To waft our produce
Our merchants beggar'd ! sailors flarv'd 1
Their wives and ehildren too ?
Or (hall they go 10 Abington,
To work, good men, for you ?
Perhaps you think so many men
At once thrown from employ,
Will bring the price of labor down,
And you'll the gain enjoy.
Say genero»s Committee, fay,
What wages will you give I
For tho' I may not go to sea
Yet I atid mine must live.
My way I cannot yet fee clear
Into the woods to go ;
First run in debt to buy a farm,
And then to Ving it to.
Fell trees, pile logs, then burn 'em up,
Work all day long in smoke,
Then to my wife come weary home
All cover'd o'er crock.
The interest like a ftnker cuts,
While the young orchard grow*.
Is this to cause the " <ivildcrnefs
ToblofTom like the role ?"
Asd when th' accumulated debt
Which has become so large,
Mad be paid off—my farm and flock,
Will scarce the whole discharge.
This will not do—-indeed 'twill not,
Good men of Abington,
You mull contrive some other coat
F.re sailors " try it on."
Have you not read ?—no doubt you hare,
Of China in the east ?
How they forever flay at home,
Nor travel further weft ?
They cultivate their fruitful fields,
And fell their produce there,
Make foreign nations court their trade
And we obtain a (hare.
But are tb*y happier. Sirs, than we ?
Survey their lab'rng poor!
Their Infants drotvn'd their ParentsJJarv'd
' On the polluted (bore 1
Drop 1 drop the curtain, change the scene !
Let u« come home again
To our own blefl America
Where we may. live like men.
If Congress bids us fight, I'll fight,
Tho' war I denrerate,
For to obey, I hoid its right;
The rulers of the State.
Let Abington Committees ehpofe
And trnmpet every ipme,
Lieutenants, DcSors, Deacons, 'Squires,
To problematic fame :
My business I will mind at home,
If I mayn't go to fra,
, tr "ft the government to guard
Both Abington and me.
A School,
From fix till eight o'clock is opened at
The Neiv School Room,
Back of Ne. r*?, in Chefnut Pfreet, for the fi,V.
'c tion of Boys and Young Men in the E:;»li(h' ar< i
French Languages, Writing, Arc.-.urts, & c .
, , J- WAT&RMAN.
J fthmo-ith . toJtTrcafury Department,
March ig, 1708.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
THA Tpropojals will be received at the Office,of
the Secretary of the Treasury until the expi
t r.uion of the day of July next enfuiDg, for
the supply of all rations which may be required
f.>r the use of the United States, fromthe firil day of
Oilober 1798, to the thirtieth day of September
1799, both days inclusive, at the places and within
the diftridl hereafter mentioned, viz. At Ofwego ;
at Niagara ; at Prefque Isle ; at Michilimackinac ;
at Fort Franklin ;at Pittlburgh ;at Le Bcuf; at
Cincinnati; at Greenville ;at Picque Town and
Lcramie's Store ; at Fort Wayne ; at Fort Defi
ance ; at any place below Fort Defiance on the Mi
ami Rivtr to Lake Erie ; at Fort Kiroxand Ona
tanon on the River Wabaih; at Maffac; at any
place or places on the east fide of the River Missis
sippi ahove the mouth of the River Ohio, and up.
on the Ulii.ois River ; at any place or places on the
east fide of the Mississippi River below the mouth
of the River Ohio to the fouthcrn boundary of the
State of Kentucky, and within the said Stata ; at
KboxvUlc, Tellico Block Hottfe, and at all other
l J ofts in the State of Tenneffec; at any place or
placc-s on the east fide of the River Mifliffippi, be
low the southern boundary of the State of I'ennef
fee, to the southern boundary of the United States.
If supplies ihall be required for any pods or
places not mentioned in this notice,all such supplies
shall be furnifhed at prices proportioned to those to
the pofls before recited, asmay be agreed on be
tween the United States and th« contraflor.
The rations to be supplied to confiil of th<? fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour
One pound of beef or twelve ounces of pork
or bacon
Half a jill ol rum, brandy or whif-">
ky, bile quart of Salt, two quarts ( , P e . r
of vinegar, two pounds offoap,( .
one pound of candles J rations
The rations are to be furnilhed in such quantities,
as that there shall at all times during the said term,
be fufficient for the consumption of the troops at
Michilimackinac, Detroit, Niagara, and Ofwego,
for the term of fix months in advance, and at each
Of the other posts, for the term of at lead three
months in advance, in good and wholesome provi
sions, if the fame shall be required. It is te be un
dcrflood, that the eontraclor is to be at the ex
p;nce and rilk of iffoing the supplies to the troops
at each post, and that all lofles faftained by the de
predations of an enemy, or by meant of the
troops of the United States, Ihall be paid for at
the price the articles captured or destroyed, on
the depositions of two or tr.ore pcrfons of credita
ble charadlers, and the certifica'e of a commiffion
e.l officer, afeertaining the circurrcflances of the
lofsand the amount of the articles for whiah coai
penfation (hall be claimed. A
1 he priviledge is refervec! to the United 3tates
of requiring that none of the fnpplies which may
b« fun the proposed contrail, ft,all be
UHtil the fnpplies which have or may be
furnifhed under the conttaifl now in force have
been consumed.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
rc~,arch 21 wt r<;Jy
Alex. J. Miller is? James Davis,
Having entered into partuerihip under the firm of ' '
Alexander J. Miller & Co,
INFORM their friends in town and country, that ' At
they have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store,
at No. 64, South Frant S<reet, Philadelphia ; whera
they now have, and intend kcaeping a general as- .
fi»Jtment of Indiir, German, lrijh, French and Sri" A I
tiji Manufactures for sale, on advantageous termr
for caih or a lh«rt creait.
Febrgary 19 trf j
lnterpreterof Foreign Languages. An
JOSEPH F. O. M. oe LA GRANGF., '
Walnut-flreet., No. no, '
BEING duly conamiffioned and sworn in the a
bove capacity, offers to tranfiate the French, '
Englilh, Spanish, Portuguese and Italian Langua- '
ges :he flatters himfclf that his former profefiion, '
as advocate, both in France and St. Domingo, hat I
well qualified him to tranihte any Court proceed
ings or other Judiciary inflrument*. 1
N. B. The FRENCH CIRCULATING 1.1- of 1
BRARY continues open at the above place. Ma- l ,er '
ny valuable additions having been made to this 'j? l '
colle&ioH, k conGllsnow of about 1500 volume",
the bell adapi«d to answer the putpofe of those
who wilh both to improve in the Language, and ma )
obtain ufeful inftruiftion and pleafnre. mec
march .10. lawim ft a[r
~ Pcnnfylvania oTo
4th mo. 7 th, 1798.
THE Contributors to the Pcnnfylvania Hospi
tal, are te meet on the feverth day of next
Month, being the second day of the week, at the I
L»id Hospital at three o'elock in the afternoon, to ~~
tlefl twelve Managers and a 'freafurer, for the
anfuing year.
By "rder of a board of Manager!. |~S
SAMUEL COATES, Su'ry.
a e ril-7 havi
NOTICE. p° w
ALL persons who have any demands agaiuft >t-,
the estate of Wiham Tlfetwood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are requefted-to exhibit their accounts, To 1
properly attefUd ; jnd those who are indebted
10 the fame, are desired to make immediate It
payment, te tont
GEO. DOBSON, 1 . . , delp!
No. » 5 , So. Third-flreet. 5 r ces p
Tantiary 4. dtf and c
To the Affli&ed with ~
NERVOUS Disorders, lofsof appetite, female be rt
complaints, debilitated con flit ut ions, inward of ft
wealsneffes, lownefs of spirits, f. minal weaknefies, a rep
indigestion, decayed, weak or relaxed conllitutionf, wi
pains in the limbs, poverty of blood, finkingunx- be th
ielifs, and tremors, whichfoldreadfully affrft the derc
weak, the sedentary and the delicate, every fymp- mcnt
torn us extreme debility, attendant on the indifcre- T(
tions of youth, the consequences of a difßpated berti
life i excefi of pleasure or grief, change of climate, fes, 1
the immoderate use of tea, spirituous liquors, or at th
any intemperance ; disorders incident to young and
girls and women at a c-rtiin period of life ° (cribi
THE CELEBRATED agree
Cordial Restorative Balsam, thet
Is a medicine of absolutely fpecific andunparal- "1?
Jeled virtues, in the ffeedy and effectual cure of the si .
above disorders, having flood a trial of many fuc- r ie "
ctfsfal ytars, dufing which period ivasy have been °
reftared from the brink »f the grave.
Youth and age of either sex, "are equally the6b
ieSs of this Rellorative, and they will uniformly pnUt
participate in its falubrioi t qualities and effeifls • '
for whether the fyftcm has received a Ihock, and is* pr "l ,c
debilitated, from imprndcncies or inattention in ? "
the earlier part of life, or is finking under the ad- *.
vance of years, a f.nali quantity of this medicine ,!"
will giv- prefeitt relief to, and afford a plcafing ,
profpeA of returning health and strength, by giv- , • "p.
mg tone to the mufeular system and organs of di- ,
pellior., and in a great meajure renovating the coa- a 7
tlitutio*. pv
Women at any period of life, may by this medi- ■
eir.e be freed from the rrrotl afTMirig difordett in
cident to the sex, and at a certain period it is moll
highly nfcM). A (
I he Cordial Restorative Ba'fam is fold genuine
(only) ty the proprietor, Dr. JAMES CKURCH, blinds
at hi. medicine flare, No i, Souih Third lireer, Rn l"'
next Market reet, Philadelphia ; where niiy*bc Silth
hac an account of the virtues of this ReiHra ive
Uidiliil of curci. aprit 3—aawjw
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
' MARCH i, 1798.
[ * PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
ce,of 'N pursuance oftfr AA of Cangrefs passed on the sixth day of July one thousand seven hur.dredand
xpi- nir.ety-feven, c titled "An A<sl laying duties on Stamped Valium, Parchment and Paper", and the
for paJTed on the fifteenth day of Decsmber, one thousand seven hundred and nriety-feven, entitled
ired *' to.poßpoiie for a limited time the commencement of the dnttcs by the Acl enti
yof 'led "An AJt laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", that from and, after the
iber fir (I day of July ensuing, the several Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and coilec
thin tc d throughout the United Status.
-&°»
ac ; ' 7 ° r every (kin or pfeceof Vellum or Parchment, or flieet or piece of Paper, upon which shall be
. at written or priuted any or cither of the inllrumentt ar writineslollowing—to wit:
and Dh Ots.\Mh
)efi- Any Certificate of Naturalization, .....
Mi- Any Licence to pra<3ice,or Certificate of the adrniflion,enrolment erregiftryof
ina- any Cotmfellar, Solititor, Attorney, Advocate or Protflor, iD any Court of the
any United Statel, ... . I 0
ffif- Provided, that a Certificate in any one of the Courts of the United States
U P V for one of the said Officei, (hall so far as relates to the p iyment of the
the tluty afsrel'aid, be a fufficient admiffi jn iri all the Courts of the United
ut ' l States, for each and every of the said offices.
( h e Any Grant or Letters Pateiit, under the seal or authority of the United States
at (except for lands granted for military services) - 4
tr Any exemplification or certified copy of any such grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military fervicet) ... 2
icf" Any Charter-Party, Bottomry, or Refpondentia Bond, - I
>es~ ece 'P £ or discharge for or on accountof anyLegacyleftby any Will or o
or ®' ler 'ettamentary inllrument, or for any share or part of a perfor.al estate di
i;ej vided by force of any statute of diftributi»ns, other than to the Wife, Chil
to dren or Grand Children of the person deceafed,the amount whereoffhall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and shall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, - - 2s I
D l_ When the amount thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
shall not exceed five hundrsd dollars, ... 50
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional furn of I
rk Any Policy of Insurance or inilrament in sature thereof, on any ship, vefle'l or
goods insured from one diftridl to another in the United States, 25
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which
Insurance is made (ball not exceed five hundred dollars, - 15
ls When the sum insured ihall exceed five hundred dolla-rs, - I
Ary Exemplification, of what nature foaver, that ihall pass the seal of any
• s > Court, other than such as it maybe the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
11 ' furwilh for the use of the United States or 1 some particular state, - 50
at Any Bond, till single or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promiflhry
not* or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
a tion rr contrail, made to er with the United States or any state, or for their
use refpeilively, ....
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
Ii above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars, 25
is If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 50 I
Audit above one thousand dollars, - - ...
e Provided, that if any bonds or notes (hall he payable at or within sixty days,
lt such bonds or notes ibali be fubjeA to only two fifth parts of the duty
n aforcfaid—viz. . .
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 4
If aboreone hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollai s, 10
e If above siva hundred dollars and not exceedißj one thousand dollars, 10
If above one thousand dollars, - - - 30
Any Notes iflued by the banks now eflabliihed, or that may hereafter be eftab
s liihed within the United States, other than the no'os of such of the said Banks J '
f as ihall agree to an annutl competition, of one per centum on the annaal di
e vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders rtlpedlively, according to
: the followfng scale. ..... I i
On all note 3 not exceediag fifty dollars, for each dollar, - 6 I a
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, jo I 1
Cn all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred J f
dollars, - . ... I jit
On all notes above fiye hundred dollars, - * I '<
Any Protest or other Notarial a£l, - - - - I
. Any Letter of Attorney, except for ah invalid pension, or to obtain or fell IVar- I "
j rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services |
performed in the late war, - - - 1
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Cuttoms or duties, for left thao I *. e .
five hundred dollars, - - - - t I r 1
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, j I,
For more than two thousand dollars, ... 3 I '•
Any note or bill of lading for good'or merchandize to be exported, . I -
If from one diftriA to another diftriifl of the United States, not bsing in the
fame State, .... so
If from the United StAtes to any foreign port or place, - 2^
Any Inventory or Catlloguq of any furniture, goods or effefts, made In-any
cafe required by law, (CX-pt in rrf tfror 1 - 1 f or
rant or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal procef3 by any offieat,}—- "Ttr |
Any CertificataaJ » Stars in any fnfi-rance Company, of a share in the Bank of I Cl '
the Uniited States, or of any State or other Bank, * - I
II above twenty dollars and cot exceeding one hundred dollars, • I 0
If above oae hundred dollars, - - 2 I 01
If u-nder twenty dollars, at the rate of ten cents for one hundred dollars.
n.
The dutiesaforeiaid will be colleded and received by the Supcrvifors, Infpeiftors aud other Offic I
of Infpeilion, in the several Diftriils, Ssrveye and Divisions of the United States, and by such oth r I
persons as ihall from ta time be specially appointed and empleyed by the Supervisors of Dillriifts f° I
that purpose. r I thi
111.
The Superyifars of the several Diftrifls will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and as soon a I
may be praifticable, mark or ilamp, withoat fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Vellum Parch 6 I
ment or Paper, with Eny cf the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of the said duties • O
stamped vellum, parchment arid paper ti.av at the option of the Citizens of the United States be'ol/ '
tained at the rates prescribed by law, by application to any Supervilor, Infpeflor, Officer of InfDe'lion"
or other patfon appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supcrvifors of Diilrids "" ' (h{
GIVEN under my Hand, at Philadelphia ]
the day and year aiovevientioned. . •
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
■ Mareh 10 - Secretary of the Treasury.
James Humphreys,
BEING encouraged by a number of gentlemen
in the mercantile line, to undertake the pub
lifliing of a Price .Current in this city, and they
having engaged to give him every assistance in their
power to render it accurate and ufeful,
PROPOSES TO PRINT BY SUBSCRIPTION,
The Philadelphia Price Current,
And Market Day Advertiser.
To be publilhed every Vlednefday and Saturday
morning, on the following conditions.
It will be printed nri four pages quarto. It will
contain the Prices Current (wholeiale) at Phila
delphia, with the duties on each article—The Pri
ces Current at Boston, New-York, Charleston,
and other parts of the United States, with the Pri
ces Current at I,ond®n, th'e Weft Indies and else
where as often as they can be had accurate and to
be relied on. The rates cf irfiKar.ee—the price
of flecks—courfe of exchange, &c. &c. Likcwifa
a regular account of entries, inward and outward
—with such marine and other intelligence as (hall
be thought ufeful and important— and the remain
der of the paper will be appropriated to advertife
mcnts.
The price to fubferif-er* within the city and li.
berties, to whom it will be delivered at their hou
se% will be Four Dollars per annum—Two dollars i
at the expiration of a month from its publication
and the remainder at the end of the year. Sub
(cribers a* a greater distance will have it lent them
agreeable to their dire&ions—to pay t»-o dollars at 1
the time of fubferibing, and the remainder at the 1
end of the year.
I he publication fliall commence as soon as a fuf
ncient number have fubferibed to pay the expence
of conducing it.
£/■ It is from the advice and to gratify the with
et a. number of mercantile gentlemen that the
pr .lit. r proposes publishing this Price Gnrrent in a '
quarto size in preference to any other. Ard it is
propofid to embrace the Prices Current with such *
other matter as may be most material to fend abroad
in the firfl two pages—appropriating the other two f
to such matters as rjjjy be m»re immediately do- 1:
meliic, and to advertisements.
Subscriptions are received by said Humphries, at t
b.s Prmunj Office, No. 74 , North ThiVd-ftreet, f
and Mr. Z. Poulfon, jun. at his office in Chcliiut
"reet, and at the Philadelphia library.
Philadelphia, April 14. .
For Sale, r
A CONVENIENT well built fccord hand Light p
:, W '^ on ' hun g "1 Jacks with glaJT.s and
blinds m the doors, with or without harness r
nnonire cf Peer UmenckWe, Arch, below c'
Sixth ureet, or the fubferiber in Germantown. j (
CASPAR IV, HAINES.
2 P 1 m 2* vrsvr ft
Fresh Te as.
Jnft Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
j Captain Cooper, from Canton,
ir And For Sale, by
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Conpting Houfc, No. 54, Chefnut-dreet,
AND BY
SAM. E. HOWELL, '
At hi* Compting Haafe, Cruokcd billfet wharf,
r Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon, Young
I Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, a(T®rted; black and coloured Lute
, "rings and Sattiim, Nankeens, Cassia, large garden
. and comraon Fans, fattin and lutefh-ing Umbrellas
whale-bone Hicks,
j Tbey iavt alft For Sale,
1 Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchisfr,
3 French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugar iv boxes
[ march 8.
Now Opening,
At Will 1a m M'L aw s Saddle Manufaftory,
No. 72, Chef nut Street,
; A general aflortment of Horseman's
> Piflols, dire a from the Manufacturers in London.
, ALIO on hand,
, Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Covers, Li ff ht
Horseman s Caps, Swords, Cartouch Boies, Va
; 3* ce s. Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's," Hard Leather
1 ranks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c
' apri ' 9 dtf
City Commissioner's Office,
January nth, 1708.
FOR THE INFORMATION OF THE CITIZEN J
. T-HE following arrangement i. made by the
' llwts & c commiirioner, » for cleansing the
Diflrifl No. I.—From the north fide of Vine
ltreet,to the south fide of Mulberry street- to
be under the fuperim.ndance of Nicholas Hicks
v From the south fide of Mulbrry street, to
th* south Gde of CVefnut ftrreet, to be under the
luperintendance of William Moulder
3. Fromthe fomhf.de of Chefnut street to
the north fide of Spruce street, to be under tie
fuperintendance of Joleph Claypooje.
1 r ?,;^ Om^ eliorthCdcof V U ceftreet,tothe
south fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu
perintendance of Hugh Roberts.
£? When pumps are out of order south of
High-fireef, plcafc apply to Thomas Dixey, at the
corner of South and Fifth streets, or Gadfly G
HIU n ' ?£* Chc ' nut - flr « t ; «»<l nonh of
r " u'"' t0 xe Y and Dehaven, in SiiTafras
' '"'wet* Sixth ind Strsnth-fttetts,
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
8. March 30th. 1798.
Public Notice is hereby given,
dand ""PHAT by an aA of CongK-fs parted 011 the
d the j X 19th day of March, 1796, the following
titled I alterations and amendments have been made to
ent i* j the a<st palled on the 6th day of Juty J 797> en ~
' ,he titled "An ail laying duties on fUmped vcl
j'.lec- I ] UIll) parchment and paper."
, The stamp duties on debentures or eertifi
e j cates for the drawback ofCuftoros or duties on
Mis I ln P orts are repealed.
A discount at the rate of seven and one half
per Centum, will be allowed by the Supervifofs
or ref|>e<flively, to any perfojis other
than Officers of the Revenue, who may pur-
I chafe at one time or procure to be stamped, any
I quantities of Vellum, Parchment <*r Paper, upon
I which the duties (hall amount to Tea Dol-
I lars or upwards.
in.
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold at
j the rates prescribed by law, wirhout any addi-
I tional charge or expense on account of the
I price of Paper ; but for fbmped Parchment or
I Vellum, an additional pr ; ce will be demanded
I at the rate of Fifty Cents for eafh flcin of Parch
I ment, or Two Hindred Cents for eash (kin of
I Vellum of medium fi7.e, which may be furnilh-
I ed at the expense of the United States and pro-
I portionally for any letter quantity-
Given icrider my hand, at Philadelphia, the
day and yeir abovementior'ed.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
I Secretary of the Treasury.
I Cedar Potts, Rails and Shingles
I FOR SALE.
I ' I 'HEY will be delivered to any place in Mary-
I X land, Pennsylvania, New-Jersey, or New-
I York, where boats drjwi:iff fix feet water can go
I from this place. It will often suit the feller to
I receive in return corn, provisions, wet or dry
I goods. Letters directed to the fubferiber at this |
I place, and put into any poll office in-the United
I States, will be regularly received and carefully at-
I tended to. Those who wist to contradl in Phila-
I delphia, will please to apply to GrDtON Hut,
I Wills, No. 135, Market-(trect. The fuMcriber
I is desirous of contracting with foms cefponfible
J perfen in Philadelphia, to receive and dispose of for
J him, on commission, a quantity of two feet Shin- (
I gles, for home use, and of two feet and eighteen (
j inches, for exportation. ,
William Hill Wells, t
Daglboroiigh, Itace of Delaware, I.
April 28. Saw4w I 0
Canal Lottery —No. 11. U
I ■\T7"ILL commence drawing Monday, the 10th I I J
I W inft- Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at |
I Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery I r '
I and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-street j a
I Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten I 3
I Dollars, where check books are kept lor register- I t<
j ing and examining in theft, the City of Waftiing- Ici
■ ton, No. ll.an') Pattsrfon Lbttcries, and informa- j
I don where tickets may be had in moll of the Lotte- "
J ries authorised by law in any of the States of the I
j Union. I ai
N.B. The bifinefsof a Broker, inbuyingand al
I felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities, I w
I difco*Rting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of I
I Lands, Houses, &e.&c. will be duly attended to, j' c
Iby WM. BLACKBURN. ft
I November ty. § I
Valuable Stands for Bufinels.
FOR SALE—by the Subfcriler,
Two Lots ofvGround,
Situate on the south fide of Chefnut-ftreet, be- I
I clgbteen'Teet, and the other fgventeen feet, more or j
I ess, on the said street, and both extending, the I m
I breadth, one hundred and forty-eight, more I
I or less, to Carter's alky. I cc
] There are, on Chefnut-ftreet, two two-story
BRICK HOUSES
s I (Numbers 80 and 82) I
r I Which may readily be made into one ; and, on
r I Garter's alley, there is a convenient, well built __
I three-story
Brick House and Kitchen,
> I Almost new, which has two rooms on a floor J
• I and a front of eighteen feet 011 said alloy. V
• J This property is clear of ground-rent, and an
• j indisputable title will be jiven to the purchaser. ,
I h The threc Houses will befoldfeparately or toge- ° he
I Further particulars may be known on applica- ' I",':',
I t ' on t0 L L
ZACHARIAH POULSON, jvn. Ftk,
No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet, or at the Library. qui
snarch 23. - Uefißw 1 01 '
JUST RECEIVED. -!
j And for sale by W.Young, corner of Second j
j and Chefnut-ftreet, M. Carey 118 High-street
I 1 . Dobfon, 41 South Second-flreec and the Hf
j Bookl'ellers generally, I |
(Price 5-Sths of a Dollar.) | Get
BEACON HILL, I
J A Local Pom, historic and deforiptiVe 1 6 '° "
By a Lady of Bojlm. cell.
I ANALYSIS OF BOOK I. [ two
I AlluSon to the surrounding Profpeift—lnvocation horl
I / Ri ' er and f >' lvsn Deities—to the Historic S ral
Mule—Fiction discarded—Dedication to Wash- S"
ington—The Afhon opens at the Retreat of the ther
I Columbians from Bunker's Hill— General Howe hou
I The Memory of his Brother—Death of War- urr
""- Perf9nifi " ti " n o{ fortune and Fame and
Wajhujgton at Mount Vernon— called to the! coni
chief Cdmmand Formation of tha Columbian Ba,t
L-mp at Cambridge—Natural, moral, or poli- g abl
tical History of the several States—Their com- 15 a
manding Officers—Siege ef Bofton—lts SufTcr-1 the 1
for the fafe Retreat of the diire
Britiffi Army—lts Departure— Appointment of The
Congress—Declaration of Independence—Cha- fmi!
ractcr of the Columbian Soklies— The Poet's ientl
prophetic Apostrophe to the Frogrefs of Free- Stoc
dom throughnut the Would. Shee
.1". parti
~ " For Sale, pren
Thesargo ofthebrig American from Laguira, Fe
CONSISTING OP
Caraccas Cocoa.
Henry Philips, __
ap r jl „ 3 N °' 1J1 ' somh Fo "tth Street. J a
—7er~T—j i— E»rl
[Jo be Let, i nto 1
(And possession given ontheiftof May) Ea.l!
A genteel three story brick House, T1
and ftahlp oll '* 3BCi^ 0 l" P ' W " h back b «''d:ngs ? f I U
and (tables, at prefect in the tenure of Maior T,ck " a 1
son. Enqaire at IS7 South Third street P ut '
a Pr-' 2, " - T1
JUW~PUBLI SHE'D,
and FOR SALE AT THIS office, varie
D (Prints CnU) best i
Kenettions on Monroe's View K A!
OF THE CONDUCT Of THE SXECVTIFi, c;KC
n i published in the from
LrAZETTE of the UNITED STATES, from
Undsr the signature of '•j,- is wc
ami tie Metivtt aj Qtpojition, Ifc.
NT, U a the P re P andfoon will be tmUi&.j
98. WILBERFORCE ON RELIGiq^.
7 ' h PROPOSALS
owing By J. Ormrod
adeto No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, PhiladelnM,
7. en- FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPT^T
1 vcl - A Pxadtical View '
OF THE
ertifi- Prevailing Religious System
iec on of
PROFESSED CHRISTIANS
, CONTRASTED WITH
REAL CHRISTIANITY".
other Br William Wileerforce,, Ess
pur- Member of the British Parliament.
1, any Sbarch thi Scriptures.—John v. 39,
upon How charming is Divine Pbilofophy.
Not harjh and crabbed as dull fool; fubbaf.
But mujical as is Apollo's lute, '
And. a perpetual feajl of neffaredfioeeti,
addi- y. H
r , MiLTOff.
f thc . CONDITIONS.
p- Th " WOrk i"' 11 be P rin ' e d with a handfomc
f P ! cl t 5 r P e ' OH P a P er > »nd will form a volume
arch of 40c pages, large otflavo. «
till of It will be delivered to fubferibert fix- one do|.
n ar and twenty-five cent, ,n blue board,, or neat.'
pro- ly bound and lettered, for one dollar and a
half.
J,tbe . «5-The London copy fold (when it was t9
be had) iqr two dollars and a half.
£7° 1 he British Reviewers announce this nub.
rj I,cation to be one of the most ufeful, elegant and
J energetic, on the fubjecl of Religion, that hi, ap.
)e ? rfd Wllhlll tfc eir memory. The reception
t has already ir.et with from the public, ftrone
lary- |y corroborate s their opinion, for it has, in a fc w
" run rapidly through four large edi.
n S° tions in London.
;r ™ The publisher flatters himfelf, that as soon as
this ltS ™ ent ? beronle B cneril, y known, it will be
.If., j rcau U lt " as much avidity in, America as it is in
Europe.
v at- • j _»
hila- a P nl 3t
iiLt, A House and Lot in Dover.
FOR SALF
?for A I-*>T <W-rSUf>UNP>, fituste on-thit east f t( j e
hill rr, 0 m ®iti flreet, running through the town
teen DoTe r> in Kent county, in the State of Dsla.
ware, about thirty or for y yards b ? low Captain
Furbee'sfTavern, containing in front on said flreet
thirty four feet, and extending in depth eaftwari
re. twelve perches, together with the buildings there
*L_ on wefled, wjhich cor.fid of a good brick house
r r two stone, high, well finifhed, witll two rooms a
- ,out seventeen or eighteen fret square each and a
oth panage eight or ten wide on the firft floor •
, at three rooms with a palTage above, and good earl
ary rets, the cellars are excellent, one of which is used
t_ as a lutchea ; a back brick building with two rooms
Ten above and below about ten or twelve feet by sour
er - teen ; the spper rooms of this building communi
ng. cate above flairs with the passage of the house :
na - A brick smoke house, and a good pump of water
te. 'n the yard, and a garden adjoining.
•he The House is in every refped as comfortable a>
any in Dover, is in a good situation,
.nd and now occupied by John Freeman, as a tavern,
ies, with the sign of the Eagle.
• Wl 'll>e reafonible. Apply to Dan
'°> !. Mifflin, at Camden, near Dover, orto thefub
fenber, No 60, North Eighth-street, Philadelphia.
__ CADWALADER EVANS.
~ march % ?\ tus 4 w
For ~
A good situation for a Country Seat,
Forty acres of I„anH,
or Un thc Old * ork road, within fight of Ger
he mantown, end about five miles from the city
,re the whole being under good fence, and in ex
ccllent order as pasture ground.
For further information and terms, apply to
John Elliott Cresson, at hts Office for the
sals of Real Estates, Conveyancing, &c. No. t 4 ,
High-ftrffet. J
ilt - mo ' tu&fnt
For Sale,
■d Farm and Country Seat,
SITUATED on the wefl fide of the Schuylkill 09.
polite to Norria-town, seventeen miles from Phi
ladelphia the farm contain! ,c-ei of land, 5 o
of which are woodland, about 40 of meadow, and
the reil arable land. The haufc and garden which is
farce and uell paled, stand in the moil pleasant situ
ation, commanding a view of iho river, an idand
-which is oppofne. and the village of Norris-town—
-1 here is a shad fifiiery belonging 10 the nlace.—En
. quire in Philadelphia, No, 96, North Third Street,
01 on the premises.
" - a P ril >6 iawtf
d Valuable Property for Sale.
x FOR SALE,
e well known Estate, called SHREWS-
X BURY FARM, formerly the refrdence of
General John Cadwalader, situate on Saffafras Ri
ver, in Kent ceunty, Maryland—containing a
bout 1900 acres of prime LAND . upward! of S o&
ef which arc in woods. The Buildings are all ex
cellent, and consist of a handsome Dwelling House*
two large Barns with Cow houses, Stables for fifty
1 horses, a spacious treading floor under cover, a
, granary, two Overseer's houses, two ran
ges of two story buildings for Negroes (one of
, them new and of brick), Corn houses, a Smoak
, j house , &c. &c.—The whole Eflate being nearly
Surrounded by water, it requires but little fencing,
and has a good Shad and Herring fifliery. It is
conveniently situated for both the Philadelphia and
Baltimore market*, with two landings on a navi
gable river but a ihort fail from Baltimore. There
is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
thepremifas; also, a variety of excellent fruits of
different kinds. The foil is mostly a rich loom.—
The whole will be fold together, or divided into
smaller farms (for which the buildings are conven
iently fituatcd) as may suit the purchaser. The
Stock on fajd Farm, consisting of Horses, Cattle,
Sheep, &c. will also bedifpofsd of. For farther
particulars apply to Georoe Hastings, on the
; premises, or to the fiibfcriber, in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jvn.
February 24, aaw6w
Baikenridge—for sale
IT consists of 920 acres, almofl all of which u
a fine rich Meadow, (the reiidence of the late
Earl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which are bounded on the
Eafl by the river Pafaick.
are on it a number of buildings, forming
a square of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
is a very convenient one andja fraallcxpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard coniifts of Ijo® fin»bearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other pirts of faii
trail near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great
variety of othef fruiti, particularly Cherries of tie
best and not delicious kinds.
Also, 3 great number of beautiful Exotics and
Forcit Treos, that add to th« beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its situation is about 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and Xi from Springfield—' It
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound p' 3C '*
in cash, on delivery of th-. deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
S». ?S, Chilis t'" 6 -
Fsiriisry 3 1