of tt}t PMkdeipbia Dmk Advtrtiset:.
Nvmseh 1659.J
For Sale by the Subfcribar,
10 balei Cofl'as
40 do. Bafca? '■
11 Jo. Mamooiy
17 do. Chintz
7 da. Tottery
a do. Gorah» , M
25 do. Mnraguagees
3 do. Ctifick Sttip-s ~ /"
i do. Guzzic -• - 'y|
I box Uiapcre
7 do. Utubrellas
15 pipos fineft particular Madeira Wine, of
the vintasre 1795.
MORDECAI LEWIS.
December 5. 3dw4W
Imported in the brig Eliza,
Qapt. Ha ST ie ,from Bourdeaux ;
Claret in Cases of a very ftrperior quality,
White Sauterne Wii t in Cases,
Olive Oil in bafcets ntb-n bottles each,
White and colourefd Kid Gloves,
do. do. do.
A tew pipes of Bourdeaux Brandy,
For Sdte by
JAMES I ATIMER, jun.
71, South Wharves.
Who has also for Sale.
A feiv qr. Calks Old Sherry Wine.
Dfec. ?. diw
VV ANY ED, ~
A LARGE PARCEL OE
"Scantling and other Lumber,
Suitable for House Building ;
Alfoaquantity of Stone & Bricjcs,
I am rtady to enter into contrasts for the a
t'nvr r be'allowetl
for preparing them ; Tttdtajh shall be paid either
in advance, or upon their delivery, a» m»y be a
gfeed on. —Apply to theSubfcriiwr, Houi'e-Gar
penter, Lombard-llreet, No 2.
John Crean.
Petepriber 19, jdflt.
THE AMERICAN LADIES'
POCKET-BOOK, for 1798.
• JUST PUBLISHED
By WILLIAM Y. BIRCH,
No. 17, south fceond-ftreet—oontainiftg
AN elegant Frontifp'iece of (he Marquis de la Fay
ette, and hit Family, in the castle of Olmutz,
with in illoltration ; being an account of the pfinci
■pal events in the public lite bf the Marquis, with a
ftetth of the ftrffcrings of himftlf and Ms linforturiitc
-family. A complete Almanack- i -iO4 ruled pages
for memorandums, observations, &c. al/o,for accouut
of monie) paid and received for every day in the year
—a marketing and other ufeful tables—general meet
ings of fiiends—Lift of births, deaths, See.—new
country dances, poetry, songs, enigmas, &c. Ac.
ALSO,
The Gentleman's annual Pocket Remembrancer,
for 1798 —containing an Almanack ; 104 ruled pages
for memorandums and cash account ; Duties payable
00 gojds imported into the United States. COBOOI
- oufe tesfsj* ll "— l " A,. a f ter the
3 1 mi>er; a hit oftht t>otrtOwm nI.It v: -1 1
in the United Btates; a variety of ufefol tibies, and
other interesting matter.
W. Y. BIRGH, to»ftantly keeps for file, a gtonai
afrortihent of Merchant's account Rooks, and other
flat onary goods, and makes to 01'der books of any
bit , and ruled to any pattern.
Elegant Maps, on Rollers, and a large Chart of the
\Ve(l-Indies.
Hair and leather Trunks—Playing Cards, English
a ni' Ainerican. Dec. 47 s —* 31.
James C. 8? Samuel W. Filher,
; AT THE Ml STORE,
N0.813, corner of Arch and Front flreets,
HAPL TOR SAIE,
Cotton and worlted Hosiery in trunk j.alTarted
A few hales red, white, and yellow Flannels
Ditto forty romall Handk'ertrhVsfs
Ditto PulliCat silk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs ditto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal blac!: Taffetics
4000 plccai Nrnksens, and
Fev/ chests bed Hyson T&a
Alfr—lioo boxes best LSndon Window Olafs,
from 8 by 6, to 19 hy 14 —and 15 hhds. Glass
Ware, afiorted, which they willdifpofe of cheaper
than any in the city.
novemherag. i
French Circulating Libr-ary.
Joseph e.g. m. De La grange,
No. 110 Walnut-street,
INFORMS these who wilh to rsc\it to the only
means of becoming in the Vrfetich Lan
guage, that he has jiift opened his Library, con
fining of uowards of 1150 volumes, the best cal
culate J to afford either ufefu! inftruiliop, or plea
fhre. The edftai'tions, together with a catalogue
«f the Library, may be seen at every book-ftller's
111 town.
j n. b. All tranflatiens from and into the French,
English and Spanish Languages, executed with ac
curacy and difpateh. eoitn my. 15■
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies-.
-* yrHS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleas-
JIVI. ureand reuirns htr fihcere at
knowledgemtnt for the liberal encouragement
she has received during four years refidt-nee in
Philadelphia; and allures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decttne her
school, Ihe has made a fupenor arrangement for
the mbre convenient accommodation bf her
scholars. —Every branch o£ uftfol and polite
«ducat»n is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge anjd masters excelling in their
refpeiflive profeffions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797. Jimftf
The situation is perfectly healthy ; aadmade,
more agreeableby an exterrfive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the house,
House and Lots, in Bordentown.
TO BE SOLD, a handsome two story House.
with the Lbfort %yhich it is ere£led, situated
abomt the middle of the beautiful and healthy
Village of B«rd<jntown. The hsiife i/lottytwo
feet front, and in neat order. The lot contain®
one acre, and is one hoodred feet on the main
ilreet, and extends with the fame breadth tobask
ftrcet. Affo, a larg« Lot, cbntainittg nearly four
acres. Separated from the former by back llfeet.
One third on-ly of the purchase money will be re
quired upon executing a deed, and for the re
mainder, luch credit will be given as the purchase
er may chafe. This property will be fold frea ®-
aB incumbrances, and an indisputable title givesf
For further particulars esqirife either of Dr.
William Barnes, refidmg in Uwdsntorvf., ntar.
the premises, who wjll Ihew the fame, or of
PUT Eli THOMSON,
Coßveyaacer, ue. 144, Marfcet-ftreet.
Becember a. 3awJ
PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY EVliN T TNG t J/
%■
For .Savannah,
TOjSAIL THE PIRST O&SXIIYG>
rg' | V t - ttafiS&ilwi Blip
SWIFT PACKET, •:
fVT , -a^>S n Pa rm<?JC (Jkibbin, Maftcr,
HOW the ftrft wharf I>el'W ;
&• ,v,j ar JiCt Street—has handfcrr.e »c- ]
comra nlatioaTfor pai^ngers—For freight or psj- .
tige apjjy to tß'e'Mader on board, or to j
A r . Iff J. Frazer,
j No. 9c, South Front Street. ]
' Who have On hand, an J for Sale,
Prime' Rice, in whole and half tierces, Georgia '
and Carolina ladigo, Molaffea in hlids, Teneriffe
' wine, Sec. Sec
December 17 3tawtf. '
Wanted to Charter,
A British vcifcl, fifteen hundred {
to two thousand five hundred baf-
Peter Blight-.
\?HO HAS FOR 3ALF,
Choice Red T'ort Afine in pipes
v and old Lortdon Particular Mad6ifa, fit ior imrlie
dSateufe, in pipes.
December to §JW
for Char left: on,
THE SHIP
r, - Jg@£- VENUS,
i zv^ar y Mejjrs. Per bits
i QHE will faka "Freight ohVfry
O low terms, and fail the .
a- opening.—-—Apply to the m'nftcr on board, or to
hcr Dctenibcr i 8 S
e a-
:ar - For Anifterdam,
F A rC m e R,
John M'Cctli.oM, Master ;
WfLL fail in a few days, the
!. J*&o£s=S*lt&«3g r ester j.art bf her cargo being
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, orpaf
fage, apply to thfe tnafler on bbard, at Wajnut
ftreat wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
'y~ Who it Landing, out of the said Ship, fromUoar
utf* deaux, and For Sale,
h°a Claret in hhds.
nitc White Wine in quarter calks
a ß cs Claret ill cases, of a superior quality
>ullt Fentiniac,
jj® Sauterce, > Wines in cases
Lhriille,, S
Prunes m boxes
rtovember 24. §
cer > For Londonderry,
Iges 5
arble * THfe BRIGANTINE
feci S UK E r,
WaLuM IV HI T 1" " •
\&j£SkijF££ T /V lirong good vessel, about two
wii hundred rajJs,.to fail with all convenient fpced, a
ther great part of her cargo engaged-—now lying at
any Willing and Francis's wharf. For freight or pas
sage, apply to the captain, or
JOHN SKYRIN,
. ( v Lancfenbtrger s wharf.
't! Who wants to Charter.
—> — A ViisSELiof about three hundred tons.
er, mv 18. 1 §
For Sale or Charter,
u d BsSm GOOD HOPE,
Will carry abbot taoo barrels, and
is ready to take in a cargo. For terms
■f'™" l »pply to
Pragers & Co.
No. 151, South Secend-ftreet.
Who have for fjle—prime St. Croix and
Rum, Madeira, Lisbon, ind Ttneriffe Wir.e.
lass, November 7. dtf.
rlafs
apcr For Liverpool,
—— >-**& The copper bottomed Ship
Hamburg Packet,
.iS Captain Silas Swain.
A Large proportion of her
only .i cargo being ready to go on
n " board, is cxpe<fted to fail on or about San day, the
C0I J" 3d °f December.
' For Freight or PafTage, apply to the Captain on
P' ea " board, at Walnut-street Wharf, or to
te's IPHILIP NICKLIN y Go.
November 12. §
jfi For Savannah, in Georgia,
5. . THE SHIP
Sully Butler,
• Captain Ch is H OLM,
" A ne\vr vessel, with exed'eftt
leal- ftfrpatfeir^ers—
at" on the <oth of December. Ft>r freight or
nefit passage, apply to ROSS & SIMSON.
Gt ift Who have to difpqfe of,
I the A small mvoite of GLAUfeER SALTS '
: her INDIGO, arid a parrel of HOLLY WOO£).
t for november 18. 4
|'. er To be fold,
Mrs! A N ELEGANT COUNTRY SfeAT, contain
" h ■^-^ L ing*6 aires and 40 perches, w(jth a nelt two
story brick House and Kitchen thereoft, an apple
Orchard, &c. situate on the Irifli trait latie, in the
•i' to'wnfhip of Moyamenfing, about One mile from
. fhe'c'ty of Philadelphia. Furtbet- particulars will
na fee known upon application at the office of
' ot the Philadelphia' Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for tafle anil
n. elegance, Itand unrivalled.
oufe. December I. dtf
rtthy Tho Subfcribex intends to rftake
two for the lertfcwal bf i Certiflcate cf a Share
uills in the Bank of (he United Staias, ftindingin the name
main of A - B. N0.5004, dated Jul? 11, 1 797. <l>e fame
, , having been loli. JOHN GRaHAM.
fechmond, Dec. ... _j6w
feet. ROSS b 5 SiMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
:hafe A few bales Baftas, CufTas, and
ea ®- a quantity of Beti-gil COTTON
veaf Bengal SUGAR, in tags and boxes
Dr. Jamaica,
Itar. St. Vincents, > RUM.
and £frngal J
30b cirfks RICE, rad
A parcel of (hip building RED CEDAR.
if oa. it. . §
By John Fenno, N° 119 Chefmt Street.
NICKLIN SsT GRIFFITH,
At then Store cm \Y*h-'>' SlWtWfart —•
HAV: r.i« if AL Ky
- of Jjiaa/ci !<uin
i V, ,<ic in piyes ail;' "**\'
TffitriHe do. in pipes -V [
( 1 I !'>rt do. in hhd».
Imperial Tci in quarters and eighths of ehefis
Ssil Curmfs, No. I, to 8 */
Dimities, GingJ.ams, aad "M«{lineta, in packa
ges fuiuUe for tb« Weft India market
Nails afltwted
Black quart bottles
QJteens ware in. hhds. and crates
Yellow ochre dry in c;:fl:s ;
And at New-York, on board the
ftip Diana, from Liverpbol, exported round
as soon as the navigation is cpen,
Fine Liverpool Salt
Coals
Sptnilh Brown ")
Venetian Ued j
sssisr: > p *»"-
'-Vhite lead
Red lead
Cokothar .vitriol
160 bundles Sheathing paper
tw'ne
Diana,
SpHf For S»lc or Charter.
L SO,
of Plulip NicMin.iS* Co.
is now changed "t« «fa-„
NickHn G"fplh.
January i.
The Subscriber,
Informs those to irHom he is indebted, that his
bodies, which have been Vept open for their infpec
tfon lince Dec tin be r
ult. and will duririg the present month remain
open at his Counting-house in Chefnut Street for
their further investigation and fciut ; ny.
JAMfeS
'Fhifadffihia, Jnn. tft i'7Qs-
Insurance Company
OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that an
Election for thirteen Directors to serve for
one year, v»HI be held at th« company's Office, on
Monday, the eighth day of January next, at II
o'clock.
SAM. W. FISHER, See'ry.
Decethher >4. dtßthj
Office of the Inlurance Company
OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA
TN cbnfetjuetice of an application from a number
1 of Proprietors ef Stock, made agreeably to the
of. incorporation, a general meetihg of the
Stocknoldcrs'is part:clltv«<s —L«o-f.
day, the 3d January next, at 11 o'clock, at the
Offlct of die Company. -r* v • ""
SAM. W. FISHER, See'ry.
December 26. dt3<lJ
Infuratice Company of North
America.
THE St»r{tHolclers"aVe hereby ihfrtrtVicd, thht a
fHted tAeeting &f the CofU£2n'y tvHl he held at
their office on the ninth day oT January next (be
ing the fecondTuefday in the month) for the Eiec-,
tion of twenty-five Dire'&ors for the ensuing year.
EBEN. HAZAP.D, See'ry.
December 14. thfcttitijthf
Philadelphia andLancitter 1 urn
pike Company.
Stockholders are hereby notified, that the
JL annual Eledlion for Officers foe the eriuiing
year,will be held at the Company'sOftijce jn Phila
drfyfru, on theTeCoiKl Mbn3ayiw January next, at
I© o'clock, a. m. Wm. GOVETT, Sfec'ry.
Decejjiktt' 7. ftts
Pennsylvania Population Com
pany.
THE Shareholders are hereby notlfiied, that an
El- dion of Officers for the enfuhrg year, will be
held at the Cbhipahy Voffice, no. jij north Fourth
street, on Wedriefdiy, the 16th day of January
neat, St 12 o'dlock.
fiy order o' the Board,
SOL. MARACHE, See'ry.
December 16 eodticthj
Tin Plates,
for sale by
SIMON WALKER,
Pine, near Fifth street.
December 28. i.w
A House in Burlington for Bale.
T""HE fubferiber his a large, convenient two
ftory brick House, with Stables* Carri*ge
houfe, and a well improved GardeD, in the City
of Burlington, New-Jerley, whicly he withes to
sell. For ternliapply «t No. 5, South Fourth
ftr'cet, to GEORGE WALKER,
Who hits afo for Sale,
Lots in Wafhingtori City,
CdnHg'udus to flie Capitol and to the principal
hirbour.
Decertiber 29. eo7t
Philip Nicklin & Go.
Have for sale,
At their STones till Walnut street Wharf,
- HavannahSugars, whiteandbrown
hhds. Jlir.aica do.
[ 30'0o pieefca of Hrbail NSnlieens
ImpeHal Tea, In quarters and eighths of cliefts
Quickfilvcr hi tubs
. Madeira Wine in pipes and hbgfiicads
fenerilTe Wine in pipes
Old ted Port Wine inhogffieadi
Sitil CanVaft, aborted, No. t to 8
S cases of Maiicheftcr Goods, eoAfifting of D?tei;iis,
Muflinets, Ginghams,'fhickfetts. Corduroys, Sic.
SCO crates Qjjfens' Wiire, alTorted
Nails, aflorted
Black ifultt Bottles
Yelfo\y Ocre ifi caiks
Aqwmityof wrftitig S'ates slate Ink Stands, &.c.
100 quarter casks Gin Powder
7bn have at/afor SAI.E or CHAR TER,
'theJfiip MOLLY, burthen 340 tons, a
good vefftl, and completely fitted.
The brig AMAZON, burthen 1300 bar
rels, may be ready tor. sea in a few daVs^
The whole of ths above VctTe.s to' 6E fern at
llreet Wf.srfT. § 11nf. ic.
\mART 3, 1795.
pell' s US,
Ey JOHN MILI.LR, jun. is" Co. < ,
No. 8, Gk tuiU'ftrcvt,
One hundred tnd eighty taftt
BENGAL GOODS,
«r!. ut'i
G urn* hi Mamoodics (
liftas Sannas
iJuza-oahs Tsgdi Colfaes
Giizzi'S Emerrics
* ">Bhic CWths Calitoes <
Palampoors Komall Hundfeei chiefs
Atridngii them are a great [iropdTtida ot the
manufafhjre* of Patoa.
.Jjeccflibr r I. • 5
JUST RECEIVED,
(via fiew-York)
AND NOW OPENING, BY
George Dobson,
Nf. 15, foath Third street,
An extcirfiVe and general assortment 6f
HABERDASHERY, viz.
Best London raixt Pins Galloons an.l ferrets
Common do. do. Worded Bindings,alTor-
Makenzie'sftipsr.pater.t ted colours
white ciapel
Nuns Thrsad np. 6 to Thread Tapes
40, regularly aSorted White Edgings
I,Jlle flo.no. to 506, Black nd coloured Chi
regularfy affortcd nef.' Ribbands
Coloured do. Sattin and figured do.
Black fewhig Silks Blaii;Velvet, 1-4 ro I2d
Cotpurea do. and Tv.ift Velvet & pclon. Satti'i*
. Silk and cott<j» Wife's' " French Cambricfc
Do do. RiSUjwids Scotch do.
stiirc Moulds aitdWlre'i Wain gilt aud pUtsd
Irtaeli bruih
And a comp'itat aSortment of Gxods. suitable
{»<h»pr*-ln>'. uM apfiiAiching at
prices. t)cc. 6. dtf
Employment for ihe Poor.
FLAX FOR SPINNING,
To be given out every second, fourth, 4nd filth
day morning, between the hours of 10 ahd 12—
back of no. 52, south Fifth flreet, above Sptuce
flreet. oodiw
For Bale by the Subscribers,
PrJme Rice in lubole and i:af tierces
Bam deaux Brandy
Tenenffe Wine
Molasses
Georgia and Garolina Indigo
• Ravens Duck and one hog/Bead of pa'rit
brujhes.
N. Is? y. Frazer.
No. 95, Sontb "Front Street.
Nov- 7- dI m ■
Prefli Raisins.
A Small cargo, inft arrived, and now landing
at Chefnut ftre'et wharf, from thefloopYa
rico. capt. Hi&eU, confiftikg'of Kegs, Boxes and
ojfoft ibeted Armondl—
ontoard, or to
Jos. Anthony & Co.
December 19 §jt
Bank of North Airtferica,
January I, 1798.
AT am'eeVirtgdf the DireiHrs this day, a divi
dend of fix per cent, was declared for the lafc
half year, which will be paid to the Stocknolders or
-their'repfefeutatives at Sry time tfter the i6tb inft.
By order of the b^jtrd,
jOHfr NIXON, President.
rlticth.
Bank of the United States,
Jhnuary ifi, 1798.
THE havi this <lay declared adiyidehi'.
oflte'tVeh dollars oti tadh !hare for tlife l&'ft tec
months, —alio an afddifion&l dividend of four dol
lars on each (hare, arifingfro'ni kirplu? profits. 1
Y&hich dividends will b-: paid to the Stockhold
ers, dr their legal reprcfentatives, after the joth
lift. d6t
Salifbliry .feftat'e.
I"*HE Subfcfißer, fjrOpaGrtg (6 his bufi
nefe, differs this 1 flhte tor sale, cin tnod'efate j
terms. On.it ate one Biaft and three Air Furnace*,
a complete Boreipg Machine, and a very good, grift "
Mill, with two pair ot stones ; also a good
in perfeft repair, as arc all the Water Works coftncii
e'd with thtfe varioas branches. The Air Fbrtiabes
were lately built for the purpose of carllii*g Cannon
for this Stnc. —There are tVv-o acres ;
t>f Laiid, of whfefe is under wood, otfwr
very firte Arable I'ahd,producliVg thr best iHfay
Paflure. The Cannon lately, there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is '
superior to any in this country, and prooablv, equal
to any i'n the w6rtd ; for ">»< st one of fi*ty-nit>e gwns
lately mude, a Ithpogit fOmfcofthe were
into 31 pourtders, have failid on The situ
ation is very particularly for this branch of
manufa£lure, and a place d aims tying in the (fate
6f Gorine&icdt, ahli only jo miles from I'cveral lind
ing« 6n the Hudson's iWer, and having every advan
tage that can result fr®m a plenty of w;ater
froni a large natiira! pond, very near the Furnace,
and which hiay be converted irko a variety or other
ufeful purposes. Ihe purchater tan be?ccomnioi3at
ed w?ih all the ftoek and utenfili, and have pofTeflion
on Gr betore the (irll ot J.une next, and preparation
maybe made in the mean time for m T
me'dialely thereafter, for every parfwill be delivered
in good brder, with some coal, Ore, Sec* &t. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony 1 in Philadel
phia; Brooks, E'q. one of jhe Representatives
?n for this State ; Mr, £kvi<j tVatrrman, on
thepremifes, Or in N^w-Yhrk.
WILLIAM NEILsaN.
Dee. t.
NOTICE.
AIL psrfons concerned are hereby nitrfied,
ttiat the fnVjfcriber intends to apply for a re
■ ne-.val of the '-odirmentioried ldft certificates of
Stock in the Bank of the United Statis—He for
warded tfiem under cover of a letter addrefled to
fo'hn Anfley,or London,by tile flip Bacchus,
George, which left tfiis port fn June fait for Lon
don. Got that ship having been captured on her ]
paflage and fentto France, ;+.e Above letter and in
clofures have failed ia theif destination.
Three certificates, viz.
No's.
four (hares, dated January ill, 1797, and
ilTued in the nafrie of Henry Grace, of Tot
tenham Highcrofs, Great iVitain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
Pli'jJeTflia, nov mud 3. 21w6\V
[Foirjtffi XIII.
Will be Sold,
On Tu. fdsf the roth day of Jauuarjr inft.
at 1 o'clock iu the Evening nt the Mcr*
chant*s Coffee Houfc, the following des
cribed ti>iZa of land-—vis^.
"f l ind, -fhnate
on the Paters qf lift If Eqiiintrtlk creek, in
the county of Northampton, furveved on
warrants dated refpc£h'vely the 9th day
of O&ober, 1776, and patented in the year
*7i 3-
ALSO,.
Fifteen thonfand acres of land iituate in
in Union, Springfield and Shirly townfliipa
in H u ntingdon county —Particulars of which
(nay be known by applying to Charles Ed
dy, No. 4, North Eighth Street.
Peter Ben/on, Auctioneer.
Jan. a. t dtioth.
Tire Gentlemen who were f"e
quefttd to obtain signatures in the fevcral wards,
A.C. to the'petition addrefled to the Sele£l ;nd
Common Cour.tils, on 'the fiibjeet of vlaiering
the city from a grand Reservoir, will to pleased
to have their interfiling trull completed
next Vv edntftlay afiernoen ; when mefieiigers
will wait on them for the purpose.
MAG AW, Chairman
of a -Meeting of Citiicm.
, Jnnuarv Sj
60 Dollars Reward.
RAN AWAY from the Hi fcrfter, on the 14th
• of t>.cember, J797, a N gro Man, about zi
year# oUt, +ry thr n„mc of t'ito.he is abottt j feft
. <M- .Jsvi .e» .aaU<pr*fx>rtioard ;• he
hjw a very coarse voice, his fore teeth ftandvery
lar apart; th«re were one "or two with him—l.
cannot rightly dtferibe the cloaths he took with
him, (or he took two or three suits ; he had on
when lie went Sway, a pair of kerley trowfers, a
haif worn dr3b coloured coat, a half worn wool
hat ; he ( took with him four very good shirts—l
»xpc<S he has made for Philadelphia or tjie Jerfcyi.
Whosoever takes up said negro and f cures him, so
that the owner may wet him again, shall have the
above reward, paid by me, JOHN MOORE,
l.iving inStill Posd, K>ent county, Maryland.
January i. "fttzaw
Ran away the 25th of Decem
ber, 1797, a Negro Mah, about 5 feet 5 or 6 inch
es high, of a yellow complexion; when spoke to
and called by his name hefcasaquick sharp look
out of his eyes and (hews the white of them very
much ; has taken ail his eloathes with him, which
aie, i new lcerfey great coat, a grey broad cloth
and olofe bodied coat, a striped vest, nankeen
breaches, fiUc stockings and ruffled shirts, and a
number qf other cloaths. Th« said Negro under
ftaads farming, and is a good shoemaker and car
penter t he can read and write tolerably well—lt
is likely he may forge a pafc. Whoever takes up
hid negro and secures him, so that I get him, fkall
have Thirty Dollars reward, paid by the fubferiber,
coonf° 1LD """'* Wlne P°nd, Mary-
N. B. The above Negro i« 19 years old.
Jintiafy a- —; —cr? —~
TO BE LET,
And poflefEon given the ift faftuary,
The House No. 107, Arch-street,
Near the corner of Third Street.—For further
particulars, enquire as above, or at No. 88, Vine
Street.
December ly d t f
Hyson and Young Hyson lea.
A fe'wchetl? of excellent quality, For Sale, cor
ner of Second and Pine directs.
December 16. eo 'tf
Bank of North America.
ThP, Stockholders are hoT«hy notified, tha; an
sledion for twelve Directors, /or the enifuing year,
wi!ll>e h'el'd at the 'feank on Morxjaf, the Bth of
January next, at ten o'clock.
RICHAIID WELLS, Co/hur.
Dffunber it. ... dtSfhT
Lodgings Wanted,
Fumithe.t or unturniiheii for a Gentleman,
dy ajid servant—two or three genttjel Rooms and
a Garret; situated South of Market Street—Yai
quirc of :he Printer.
Dec. Z9»
FOR SALE, :
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Including Long Primer, about 400 weight, ia
good condition, and would answer the purpofc of
a country printer as well asn'eW.
Enquire of the Printer. Nov. 30.
' his Day is PilblSfhed,
BY Mett. Dotfon, Carey, Campbell, Ric and the
tone I Boole feilers,
Price One Dollar an«l twenty-five cents,
Elegantly printed on fVovr paper, and Hot.
prrjed,
By John Xhoropfon,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of each Constitution, and'
cUlTing together their ;noft important provisions
under the fevexal heads of administration ; with
ftotles anrlObfervations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of Soutb-CaroJiia,
L L. D. and member of the CiSngrefs of the
United States.
Dedicated to tho People of the United States.
N. B. A few Copies printtd on an inferior pa
p«r, at 3-4thsof a dollar.
SAlifes feY AUCTION.
Stilted Salts
For DRT Good s.
r Forenoon—Edward tox, No. 56,
MonJa-J f'on^ftreet,
Afternoon—Focitnan !i Co. No. 6$
SoOth FrUnt-ftrett.
f Forcnoort—.John Connelly, Old City
Auflim, Ni 73 fout'h l'rant-ffrfct,
J -'l Aftcroopn—Willi 3 m Shannon, No.
(. 183 High-fireet.
WedkefSay \ N °- 74
J \ south Thir^f-fircet.
'Tburfiay i Fox.
t Atoernoon—John Cotlnilly.
p ■j ? Forenoon—Williara innoa.
5 Aftsrnoou—John Connetlv.
Saturday Afternoaa— Pctirjlenfon.'
1713-X|}e tiSasette.
PHILADELPHIA,
WfDNESIM'/ EV£NiHG, JANUARY 3. "
tf---
For the Gazette of the United States.
INFLECTIONS ON MONROE'S VIEW.
No. n.
The refleftions arising otit of the authen
tic documents annexed to Monroe's view,
which I fhaliprefent to tlte public, will re
late principally to his diplomatic condudt.
I might fay that the general tenor of'his ac
tions, frc.n the beginning to the end-os hiß
million, no Itfs fewiie to the ruling
ppwer of France, than difrefpeftful, if not
difub 1 .ent, to the executive of the United
Stat. r. furnifhed fufficient cajifcJor his re
call. But I prefer dating particular instan
ces of mifconduft, and (hall refer to the doc
uments which prove them, this being the
faireft mode of examining the fubjedl.
i In instances that have appeared to me
mud reprehcnfible, may be fpccified as fol
lows ;
}-i,- ' —Hereprefented tothecommittee of
public lastly, that he was not inflnifJed to
complain of the decree, which, d"ifpenling
with some articles of the treaty of amity
and commerce, was attended with the moll
ruinous effedts on the American commerce ;
and on a proper view of the proceedings of
the executive, this representation will be
found unauthorized and erroneous.
Secondly—V. ithout any thing to warrant
his opinion, he informed the committee of
puciic fafety, that he well Ineiu, that if upon
confederation, after the experiment made, it
should be their opinion, that it produced
any ft;lid good to the republic, to disregard
th.- 2jd aud 24th articles of the treaty, the
American government and his countrymen
would not only bear wit!) the departure with
patiiftee, but with pledfure.
Thirdly—He frequently represented in 1
positive terms to the committee of public 1
fafety, that Mr. Jay's mission was restrain- ;
ed to only two objedh ; to demand a com- 1
penfation for spoliations, and a furrendeV I 1
of the weftem posts—whereas, his inftrudi- 1
ions .lated thsf maUer differently, inform- 1
ing him that the motives of the mission were I
to obtain compcnfation for spoliations and I c
a furnender of the western posts, but not
that his powers were limited t
only.
fourthly—T]e promised to the committee I S
of public fafrty, indifcreetiy, unnecessarily e
and improperly, to communicate to them tl
the contents of the treaty negotiated by
Mr. jay witn Great-Britain, so soon as they j c
lhou!d be known to him ; and before the w
treaty, could possibly be sent to the Prefi- rt
dent, and be either ratified or rejected, he P
sent. a special messenger to London, to ob- J
tan r. copy for the express purpose of fob- J;
mitting it to the ruling power in France,and In<
pertmacioufiy refufed information of the fe
contents of the treat v. , p , nm :r I
fion to corfimuTiicate them according to his | ol
y r 'l rr ', : t"f- to the committee of public fafety. th
FinnTy— lit encouraged the French re- al
public 'u a projeft to obtain, by loan, a sum fii
ol money from the United States, to ena
ble it to profecuts the war : a measure E
which his inftrudHons positively forbid ;
which would in-vitably have drawn them
from a state of neutrality, and would have
rendered them dependant on the fortunes lon
of France, to which, from that time, they sri
would have been inseparably united. I ha
Sixthly—He negledted for a long space Iwe
of time, to nfe with fincer.ty, dijigence and I fp<
the means which were put in his
power by the President, for fatisfying the fev
directory of France, that the commercial ma
treaty with Great-Britain, was proper and j fig
necessary for the peace andprofperity of the fift
Lnited States, and did not impair any pri- j thi
or obligations with France, or any other j fail
nation, and did not proceed from any mo- j the
tiyes unfriendly to France, as had been un- for
■wifely and wickedly misrepresented on both my
tides the water, and that it was the invaiiable I dir.
and anxious determination of the executive, on
to preserve the moil friendly intercourse be- the
twecn the two' republics. I Th
Let these various adh of mifcoiidudt be at 1
connected, and they lay a solid foundation nal
for the measure which difosiffed Mr. Mon- and
roe from public fa-vice, and create a mur- M
mar againll the late President, for his long and
forbearance. 1 (hall proceed to examine J was
them with the light of the documents, for it ry
is by them only, that the mind, inquisitive j had
after truth, will be preserved from the path to <
of deception. SCIPIO. the
We
For thi Gazette of the Untied Slates. I past
Mr. Finno, • I ftfp
By inferring the following lines, yot» will Adi
much oblige a female reader. I (hip
REFLECTIONS ON THE NEW YEAR. | Ifia
"At this season, when the generality of one
people are indulging in feflivity, by closing chee
the old year with mirth, and cotogratulaN ship
ing each other upon entering on a new ; I threi
am of so odd a temp?r, that these occurren- mad'
ces, instead of giving me any jollity of fpaci
heart, fling me into very fenous specula- trem
tions ; for, on this verge of tipe, if wt look lievc
into that which is pq/t, we may not find minti
such cause of joy for the manner we have on t!
spent it j and if we carry our pmfpeß into the r
th a future, it will demand a feiious attention to u
so to live fn that as we may cor red the for- boat
mer : It was to inculcate this moral that We
the ancients depi&ed the god of the year not g
with tvio faces ; nor is it so absurd a piece of tis
of mythology, but I could wish thg moderns our si
would follow it. taker
All this introduction is to acquaint you, close
1 have, the other evening, made some re- came
lectio is on time, from the strange effedls it to ret
has brought about in the fma'.J space of tague
twelve months. Many examples might be foitai:
given of this, in almost every family ; but nouol
in irivale lift every one can make their own beat°e
obfervatiOns. The kuflandcan, at his ta- pl»ye<
' ble, piift the de?r wife, who, the last year,
graced it among his children. The wife
cannot forget that the mirth of a feftive
evening was heightened by the good-natnte
and plcafantry of an endearing husband. The
33- child may cry out, where is my parent ? The
parent, where is my child ? and no one but,
s. where is my sri ml or acquaintance ?
Such change; are naturally the effeft of
time : but I have, from reading the public
account of the changes which h'ave lately
ithen- happened among the emperors art ( d princes,
view, t ' le " ew partition of dominions and sudden re
;]] re . volutions of I'ajl iingd ms : from these o<"-
iduft. currences, I fay, I have formed a fpecula
lis ac- t,on ow ar a things have their beginning,
of hiß their progreffwns, and their falls."
uling 1
'^. no ' Foreign Intelliofence,
nited Z
is re- LONDON, Oaober 18.
lftan- By a letter from a diftinguilhed officer in
• doc- the British fleet we find, that admiral' de
; the Winter received an order from the Batavi
an Convention to go to sea is quest of the
■> me English fleet, and to give them battle. He
> sol- returned a lirong rcrnonilranct; a^ainil this
which he stated the condition of
eeof his fleet, the superiority of the Engliih, and
:d to above all the want of difciplint in his shins.
nfing He received a fliort answer enforcing the
mity firfl order : to this he contented himfejf
moll: with giving a reply of mere aA:knowledge
rce ; ment that he had received the order. <■ And
;s of from that moment (said the brave and pa
-Ibe triotic admiral) I prepared fer failing. I
felt that I had no discretion—l had no lon
rant ger to consult any thing but the honor of
e of my flag ; and,'if the Euglilh line had been
ipon thirty ships instead offixteen, I should have j
e, it given them battle. I had discharged my
iced duty as a citizen ; I was then to fulfil my
sard duty as a soldier."
the Rear admiral Story, and three otheVfhips
men dffvrted their brave commander in
vith beginning of the a&ion. They were not
eveh cleared and ready for battle whtn it
in began. Story fired a (Ingle broadside and
bKc made fail diredUy for the Texel, where he
iin- and the otiier fliy /hips were seen to enter
am- the next morning. If they had fought with
der I the gallantry of their companions, it would
ift- have been a dear viftory, but still it would
•m- have been a viftory, for nothing could have
ere flood against bravery so prompt and /kill so !
ind I consummate. '
not j Seven fail of the Dutch prizes were yes- f
<fts I terday morning arrived in Yarmouth roads. '
Dispatches were last night sent off to earl ■
tee St. Vincent, and to General O'Hara, gov
ily ernorof Gibraltar containing an account of
em the Dutch fleet being defeated,
by The homeward bound Jamaica fleet, con- 1
ey cerning which there has been some anxiety, !
he we are happy to be enabled to state, has
si- reached the channel. The following is the
he Portfmonth letter on the fubjecft : si
b- " Portsmouth, Oft. 16. Arrived the
b- Jamaica, Sherry, from Jamaica. The Sheer- a
ia ness man of war, with the convoy,, are pas- Itl
be fed by the Isle of Wight." In
■c j _ l > ""miters entertain hopes ju
us of again bringing the king of Prussia into n
y. the confederacy. Thi» would certainly en
e- able them to obtain ample vengeance for his | o
m firft succession. I y
re Extradl of a letter from an officer 011 board a:
; his Majesty's ship Belliquewx. aj
m " Tar mouth Rotds, Od. 16, 1797. tl
re "On the 9th we left Yarmouth Roads, w
es our fleet confiding of 13 fail of the li'r.e.one pi
T ["gate, and one sloop ; Admiral Duncan fc
having received information that the Dutch
•p_ were at sea, and was willing to pay his re- JOl
d fpefts to them as speedily as possible. fu
is "On wednesday the nth, fey half past m
le fevtn in the morning, the the Ruffel, Ada- ve
il mant and Beanlieu joined us, and made the K
d signal for the enemy's fleet to leeward, con- be
e j "rting of 16 fail of tie line, two frigates and I
' [ ' r^*| €C n^ S * ur ,rce nbw was sixteen los
r fail two frigates and one sloop. At nine he
- It ie Admiral made the signal to prepare jw<
or battle ; at half past nine, saw the ene- I in
1 my's fleet in the S. E. quarter, lying in a lab
1- dire A line of battle, with their ftarboardtack ab
, on board ; at half past ten the admiral made Ihe
- the signal to heave too and reef top-fails dif
I if two miles made fail; I nel
- at ha!f pail eleven, the admiral made the fig- Ibu
1 nal to form the line of battle, and to.att.irk Iful
. and break the enemy's line in succession, P. |wh
M—l ne action became general jv-ith our rear I poi
and their van; by half past twelve the aftion poi
was general with both fleets ; by one, eve- the
ry ship had broken the .enemy's line, and Ito 1
had got between them and the land in order cip
to cut them off from going into the Texel, to
the land being thendiftant sbout seven miles, for
We had now fufficient exercise ; and by half apt
I past two, a large two' decker struck to our I thi
(hip, we having at the fame time a Dutch ter
j on "or larboard quarter, another I to
I (hip on our (larboard quarter, and a heavy by
ftup on our larboard bow. At Oil's time the rem
Ifis and Powerful came and took the fire of not
one of the.ships from 116, and gave us three | plie
cheers. At jhirty five minutes after, the ncv
(hip on our larboard quarter (heered off; at ny
tree I. M. the ship on our Low filled and the
made fail, and stood from us. During this Lei
ipace of two hours, we had supported a mod be 1
tremendous fire from the enemy, and I be- be 1
.ve had repaid them with interest. At ten sum
minutes past three, wore (hip and bore down I the
on t.ie Dutch Admiral Blois, commanding tific
the rear division, which immediately struck For
to u.., hailed us, and detircd 11s to fend a the
boat on board cf her, and take possession. pal ,
We were so much disabled, that we could ther
not get a boat out ; but (he dropped a stern ceml
l, s- At half past three the adlion ceased he d
our fleet being to windward with the prizes foun
taken, and our (hip, w i t h the two prizes, a reo
close in with the land Three Dutch ship, Dep
came down, as we foppofed with an intent the i
toretakt their's; at the fame time the Mon- it.
tague and Veteran, who appeared to have culia
fii..ained httle or no damage, came near e- titr.e.
nough to prevent them. At four, they truth
beat a retreat. All hands were now em- arriv,
pl»yed inputting, fplidng, aa d repairing there
year, and repairing the damages during
wife the action, having neither brace, bowling
;ftive or lift-bole, or vtry littleof the ftaoding rigg
ature irfg j* ofir fore-maR, IjoW-fprit, main and
The erofs jack-yard, were besides materially in-
The juVed eight, a frigate bore down and
but, convoyed our prizes ioto the fleet : at nine,
called tlic flarborrrd watch on deck, the
£lof watch below to flcep at their quarters. I>t
üblic being a fine night, v/e discerned the enemys
ately fleet'bearing E. S. E. distant four rajles.
'nut, Our fleet at this time'tearing N. N. W.
n re- distant three miles. The watchon deck eni
oe- plowed knotting, splicing, and clapping a
cuja- fifh'on the foremaft, A. M. got down the
< n £> j erofs rigged a fore-top fail
..ytM in its lieu 1 ; at fix called all hands to
__ mtjfter, found we had 25 men killed arid 25
wounded, and many others (lightly ( quar
ter jJaft fix, the Veteran bore down and hail
ed us; said (he was sent by the admiral to
■r in k "° W lf we want ed her afliftance. Our no
l' de ca P ta ' n * answer was, we wanted no help,
tavi- and tbat we ready for aftion as
the naS We bcnc a D ew set of fails, the
pj e o.d one s being fliot into mere ribbands.—
this Saw the remainder of the Dutch fleet close
in with the land, in a very disabled conditi
and after a favourable breeze
lips. f P rl!n g U P' , and they got into the Texel
the rom t' us time to noon, all hands employed
as nsccffary ; half past, called all hands to
l ffe - the dead " P url^r read the funeral
\ iid crv ' ce over one lieutenant, one midshipman
and nine brother tars (the other killed being
" j thrown overboard in the adlion) who were
[on- ' mn,ed ' 3tel y launched into the deep—tears
ftreamed from all eyes. From 12 to 4 bent
een 3 " eW et S ' and fhip to get in
ave l toour " eer * Many old tars on board who
have been in several engagements, fay they
my ne . ver weathered one more dreadful ; two '
fliips of superior forie hauleddown their fau- 1
• c r colours to the Belliqueux. Admiral 1
>r Duncan eould'Viot do more with so large a
not fle . ct ' nMr the enemy's fltore,° and 1
jj. wind in j if they had been some leagues at
sea, very few would have got into the Tex
. el agaip."
he t
S WORCESTER, (Eng.") Oft. 10.
U rhurfday laftai-rived'fh this city, on a M
ild our tn, o England, Rufus King, Esq. am
bassador from the United States of Ameri- f
ca > to our court, accompanied by MefTrs. j
Gore, and Pinckney, with their suite ; and L
f( -_ on Sunday set out/or Birmingham, Hagley, t
h. the ■ tjeafowes > Manchester, and the north. r
v - CONGRESS. '
Ol —j
p. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, h
L TUESDAY JANUARY 2. I
ie Mr. Fowler from Kentucky, made his a '
I firft appearance to-day. p
ie Mr. Harper, from the committee of ways »
r- | and means, reported a bill for amending j b
f- I the several atts for laying a duty upon fpi- I P,
I ri*c ill"- 1 ilit unitea iitates, and | r£
es I upon (fills, which was twice read and coa
:o I mitted for to-morrow. I tl
i- I Mr. Dwight Foster, from the committee th
is of claims, made a report on the/petition of w
I Sarah Alexander, widow of Gen. Sterling, ® :
praying for certain lands which (he claims f
•d I as due to her late hnfbatud ; the report was j 3 l
I against the petitioner, and was referred to be
I the fame committee of the whole to whom be
s, was referred the bill for the relief of the re- er
ie prefentatives of certain deceased officers and ' ia
n I soldiers. | eh
h Mr. Dawfon moved the order of the day f'
:- jan the report of the Secretary of the Trea- |"'
I fury on the claim of Gen. Kofciufko ; which
1 I motion being acceded to, the house refol- '
i- ved itfelf into a committee ofthe whole, Mr. fci
e J Kittera in the chair, and the report having I 0I
i- been read,
i J Mr. Dawfon said, when he had the honor J
n of presenting this business to the house, he qUi
e J hoped the proposition he then submitted, j livi
e would have been agreed to in that way which
- in his opinion, would have been most honor- aiK
J able to the United States, and most agree- l!u '
- able Co tJl e person concerned. In this hope .T''
* V J lad been dlfa PP o ' nt eJ ; but, though they «
- differed as to the mode of doing the bufi- j fan
; I nets, there was but one opinion as to the I
■ J business itfelt. He had noiv a resolution to I art '
I filbmit to the .consideration of the house,
I which he trusted would meet with no op- J Bn:
I position. It would be found, by the re- RfJ
port of the Secretary of the Treasury, that i' e d
I the Accounting officers were ready to pay j I
to General Kofciufko, i2,2?0 dollars prin- rep.
cipal, and 2,947 dollars intereS from 1785 adv
to 1788. To recover those two sums, there- sou
fore, there would have been no occasion for pria
application to that house. It also states, ed i
thit a bill had been remitted to our Minis- ed
I ter 3t London, for the interest from 1789 folu
Ito 1792, but which money was afterwards mn\
Iby direction of the general, ordered to be whi
I remitted to Leipfic or Dresden ; but it did 1
not appear that this order had been com- wer,
plied with. It was clear, however, it was rose
I never received by hirp, nor had he given a- red
ny person a right to receive it. He hoped, repc
therefore, as the money lay at Amsterdam, h
I Leij ac or DrtTden, and could at any time the
be got by the United States, there would the
be no objection to paying, the general that Gra:
fiim at this time. It was furthitf stated in refol
the report, that in September. 1792, a No- and'
t.fication was published, informing all the form
Foreign affieets that proviiiou was made at lutio
the Treasury fhr the payment of the princi- each
pal of their debts, and that the interest forli
thereon would cease after the last day of De- M
cember in that year. Upon examination, dolla
he did not find that this arrangement was M
founded upon any law ; it was, therefore, lutio
a regulation agreed upon by the Treasury the 1
JJepartment, and ought not to operate to vote
the injury of persons who were ignorant of true,
a. It was well known, that, from the pe- vice'i
cufiar situation of gen Kofciufko at the that
time, that he could not I,ear of it ; and the those
truth was, he never did hear of it, until he to hii
arrived in this city. Ho hoped, therefore, what
there would be no objedion to the payment (hotil
uring of the amount of the Certificates, withia
*ling tereft to the present time. To efledt this
rigg- purpose, he p.opofed the following refo
aud lution : #
y in- " Resolved, That it is the opinion of this
1 and committee, that the Secretary Trea
liine, fury be authorized and directed to pay to
, the General Kofciufko; the interest of 6 per
I,t cent, pel - ' annum; on 12,280 dollars, 54
emys cents, the amount of the certificates receiv
es. Ed by him from the United States, and n</w
. W. loft, from the ift of January, 1789, to
; eni- the 31ft day of December, 1797.".
hg a This refoluti'on was opposed by Meflrs.
l the Macon, Coit, and J. Williams, They were
fail- opposed to interelt bejng paid up to the
ds to present time, and wished, if any provision
id 25 were made for paying interest past the time
}uar- fixed by the notification of the Treafuryj
hail- that the regulation should be a general one
il to and extend to all other foreign oiKcers.—
r no- They were also again ft paying the interest
help, which had been tranfinitted to Paris for gen.
n as Kofciuflco's use, and which, by his di'recti
the on, was afterwards transmitted to Leipfic I
s.— or Dresden, as it molt probably lay there, J
:lofe ! and would be paid to hisordtr Without their I
diti- interference.
eeze The motion was advocated by MefT. Ve- I
1— nable, Pinckney, J. Parker, Harper, Gal
>yed latin and T. Claiborne, and was finally a- I
sto greed to without a division.
leral The committee rose, the house took it I
man up. agreed to it, and referred it to a feledt I
:ing committee jo report a bill accordingly,
vere Mr. Harper called for the order of the day j
cars on the report of the cominitjee of ways j
>ent means, to whom was referred a fetter |
; in- atl J report of the Secretary of the Treafu- I
vho r y> accompanied with eitimate3 of the fumj j
hey neceflary to be appropriated for the service I
:wo the year 1798 ; which motion being ac- j
au- ctded to, the house relolved itfelf into a I
iral committee of the whole on the fubjedt, j
; a Mr. Kittera in the chair, and the following I
and I report was read :
at "it appeals from the letter of the Tecretary
ex- ' 'he treasury, that.tlie former approprut ons j
I for feversl objects, have proved deficient, and j
that before a general efhroateof deficiencies can
be prepared, and upnn by the house, the I
public service may be in dinger of fuflertng, un
-1 a less aided by a partial appropriation on account,
im- Ihefe deficiencies occur in the following appro
;ri- P r 'ations, which were made by the aits bf
r rs March 3, 1757, viz.—First, of 300,00# dolUrs
j for the quarter-mailer's and Indian departments,
a the defenfive preteflion of the frontiers, boun- '
e Y> ties, and all contingencies of the war depart- 1
i. inent. Secondly, of 292,678 dollars, for the I 1
I subsistence of the a--njy : for which two objefls, I 1
the secretary of the treasury supposes that a par- 1
I tial appropriation of 206,000 dollars on account, I 1
j will be fufficient. ' I
" Partial appropriations of this nature, have '
.0. I Heen customary, and the committee perceive no | '
I objeiflion to that now requested.
j "Ft also appears, by the above mentioned [ 1
I letter, that there is a deficiency in the former I I
»s I appropriations for the naval service, for which a t
paitial appropriation, on account, may also be
I " e " lrar 7 : but the committeedeem it proper to I
ig fumifhed with the particular (Uteoients res- ?
I peeing this deficiency, hefor® iWr-n - Sp
,, j 1 "atements will probablV be n
" u I received in a few davi. I t
B- " The secretary of the treasury further states. h
that two awards, under the seventh article of n
ee I the treaty of amity, commerce and navigation I •
of . Gre:t : Britain > have been made in favor of N'
r, Bnt'ft fubjeiis whose property was captured I a
°s *' lthl " the jurifdiaion of the United States, or n
a , h Y vcffels out there. Thele two awards b
amount to 24,921 dollars, and 81 cents—and | o
° became payable in Oaober last, but have not b
rn been paid, for want of an appropriation. Oth- I,i
e - er aw ards may soon be made, and indeed may c
d Jiave actually taken place, for thepun&ujl dif- 'i
charge of which, it is.proper to provide. Fori ®
V M hlsob thelecretary luppofes that 1 further c '
ium ot 27,078 dullars and 19 cents, will be fuf- I w
- lieient, making in the whole, an amount of fa
1 55,000 dollars, which the Committee are of o h
f .1" 1" W1 ", be e - x i ,cd ' e "t to appropriate .1.
"• f <*'f ch ? r S e of tfcffe awards. 1 hey iherd
I roic filbmit the lolloping resolutions, v,z. I m
I k ' r urri I
rhouland dollars he appropriated, en account, I wi
tor the expences, dilnng tbe year 1798; of the] ic;
e j quarter-master and Indian departments, defen-l loi
, I live proteaion ot the frontiers, bounties and |k r
contingent expences of the war department : I v
. ami a .ike sum, on account, for the subsistence, I ,
. 'iun-ng the said year, of the officers, nun-com- he
» munoned officers, and privates of the army 1 of de;
* ] the United States. |
I r "1 ""at the sum of fifty-two thou- I po
sand dollars be appropriated for the payment of I
; I awards made, and to be made, under the 7 th " t
, article ot the treaty of amity, commerce and
navigation, beru*«!i the United States and G Wc
J Hritain, in favor of Britilh fubje<3s, whofepro- P u
rperty has been captured within the jurifdiaion f La
los the United States, or by vcflel, armed or fit- wh
j ted out therein " I
Mr. Harper said, that since he made the Id ?
j report which had just. been read, he had Ve
adverted to the rules of the house, and dol
tound that it was Deceffary that all appro- ma
priations for money should be firft propof- bre
ed in a committee of the whole! He wish Jed
ed the ehairman, therefore, to read the re- the
solutions as blank, and he would afterwards it c
move to nil them up with the sum s with H
which they were at present filled. m '
was done, and both the resolutions tuti
were agreed to, without debate. The house ,-ca
rose, agreed to them, and they were refer- was
red tb the comm.ttee of ways and means, to Pli g
report a b.ll accordingly. r ®
Mr. Livingfton called for the' order of bim
the day on the report of the committee on to £
the Petition of the daughters of Count de a d<
GrafTe which being agreed to, the house wer
rerolved itfelf into a committee o'-the whole, deai
and the report on this, and that on their Jest
former petition having been read, tkc refo- The
Jut,on reportwf, which proposed to all™ to
cachof the daghters dollars annually, rccc
*/! r consideration. ef i „
dollt; m ° Ved t0 fill the blank 500 una.
Mr. Williams thought that the refo- tlm
ut'on ought to have been agreed to before pavi
the blank was filled up. He intended to the
vote against the resolution itfelf. It was * n
true, that Count de GrafTe was of great fer- ? ye ,
thai TT Y , ; , a " d k WaS also true they
hofr f L u e?dy to p
hose fervtces by the grant formerly made trust
to his daughters. If they were to grant eafic
what was now »fkedft(r, he supposed they fit'
bc ap P ll::d 10 a & a,n and again. There reffi-
h utr j might be daughters t>f other fo.«tVn offi
thy. cers whole estates were gone, as well as
-do- these, a«d<f they were to grant penfians for
lue te these petitioners, they mud also do it
this t„ them, if they applied for it. And were
rea- there not he alked, daughtersofoarown me
r to ritprious officers, who werebeconre as itwere
per a town, charge. ? Were we to take up these
54 cases also ? Ht was sorry for the situation
:elv " of thc petitioners ; but whilst the daughters
R<f Y of our own officers were probably fufferine;
, to for want of the payjuftly due for their fa
thers ftrvices, he could not agree to a second
appropriation for them. He wifhe'd gov
'ere ernment to be juft-before it was generous,
the They should be careful how (hey extended
100 tueir charity, and be well convinced that
irne the objeds t>f it were deserving. Industry,
iry, frugality and economy fliould be looked af
oae ter; as well as charity. Nobody knew how
• the money which had been granted, had
relt been expended. He recolleftid when the
;en. widow of Col. Butler (who died in the fer-
Ai- vice] applied to the house for relief, it was
f>iic denied her. He wilhed the house to be u
?re, niform in it.s grants. The afts of limita
»eir tion had cut off the claims of mSny of our
, valuable officers and soldiers, and whilst they
v<2- mere unfatisfied, fie thought they ought
'al- not to be too lavish to foreigners. Head
'a- mitted that Count de Graffe had done ser
vice to our cause ; but he was under the
■it command of another country, who, he be
fit lieved, were not infhiesced altogether by
. opr interest j they had an interest of their
lay own; they wished to ftparate this country
»ys from Great-Britain. Upon the whole, hav
ter ing once relieved the petitioners,hethought
lu- they ought to be fatisfied until we had al
ms ..ended to the wants of our own citizens*
■ee "1 lie question was put and negatived 4-t
ic- to 32.
S ?! ay , ton ( the S P«M proposed to
c »> nil the blank with 400.
n S This motion was negatived, there only
being 33 votes in,favour of it.
r y Mr. Isaac Parker moved 30®.
'"•j Mr. Nicholas said, he was at a loss to
a .„ know how to aft in this question. He
he I thought the feleft committee had gone to
in- J wor k in the mod; objectionable mode. The
"t- J application was for temporary relief; but
ro- the committee, without any reason which he
. could fee, proposed a pension for life. Why
- tbls *' as done, he could not tell ; there was
n ' nothing in jhe circumstances which made it
rt- neceffary,and therefore, he thought it a wan
he I ton aft in the committee so to report. He
Is, I wished to rejedtthe proposition in this fhap«;
ir- nor was he prepared to fay he (hould agree
Jt > to it in any other. He thought they were
ve outflepping the bounds c*f their authority, in
no I tbus disposing of the public money. '
Mr. Harper moved to strike out • the
ed I words " during life," and insert, " until
er I they shall receive possession of their proper
-4 J ty." He owned he felt the height of the
to I ob i e£ V<? ns tbe gentleman just fat down
■f- I? n tbls P oln t , all that could be defined was,
—-rg m<Mes Mould reerivc a
3C maintenance until they became possessed of
their paternal estate. He could not admit,
s. however, of the doctrine laid down from a
„ n^ ber . Q -'! a ' ter - the firft place, was it a
>f just principle, because we could not reward*
d a]l who served us, that we should reward
' r i n °" e 4 bccaufe a<as of limitation had
is barred the claim os-many of onr citizens, all
° ,hcrs wbo claims upon our jnftice or
benevolence, fh ol ,ld be rejected >He hoped
v ' f bls »entimen£ would not be agreed to ; aud
■ » ao ) r pffon who had served the United
r States, were iutitled to remuneration, he
, challenged any gentleman to p«int out one
- who had a greater claim upon us, than the
' of , C ° u . nt Graffe. No individual
had ever had it in his power to render to
l the uluted _ rTlce so singular a service as this
man. Mr. H. here took aa animated view
!° f . Co " dua of th = Count, in remaining
w,«h his fleet in this eou,try, at a very crit- .
ical period of the war, heyond the time al-
I !°Z e . ' whlch P r °dneed one of the most
I brilliant events of the war, the capture of
1 u °!*' town and . a British army, and which
I he did at the rifle of every thing which is
I dear to a soldier, his commission and honour.
I rT' r ' tbe tr ifl ,n g pittance pro-
P oled to be g'»en to the Count de Graffe's
daughters, be compared with the expence
I which a protraction of the war for two years
would have cod, which was thc lowest com
putation which could be made of the fervkei
Laying aside the loss of lives and mifervl
which mufthave been the certain confeqneuv
ees, the expence alone could not be estimat
ed at less than twenty millions of dollars '
Vet they were haggling about 50 or too
dollars for the diitreffed daughters of this
man ! And when they were about to P „ t
bread into their mouths, gentlemen obieft
ed to it, because they did not know how
the former grant had been expended. Would
n comport with propriety or delicacy, Mr.
if r 1 t0 he, S hten what the petitioners
mult feel under their misfortunes, by insti
tuting an enquiry of this kind > Should thev
require their daily accounts, and fay here
was a dollar mis-spent and there a dollar
ipight have been saved ? If there were any
gentleman who wished this, he did *ot envy
him his feelings. He was, however ready
to answer the enquiry. They had incurred
a debt in their pnffage to this country. They
were turned out of a convent, their father
dead and their brother an exile, they were
left to Crtk then -bread in a foreign country.
1 hey obtained credit on their estate in St.
Doming, for their passage, at,d until they
received the grant os-Congress, they subsist
ed upon this credit. Strangers asthey were,
unacquainted with the language and customs
of the country, was it too much to fnppofe
that they had expended in fonr years, in
paying their debts, and in their fcbfiftenee,
the 4,0c0 dollars which had been granted to
them ?He thought not. He believed eve!
ry economy had been used ; and the fad was
they were now in want, and were indebted
to private benevolence for fiipport. Mr.H.
trufttd, that as they had, on a form.r'oc
cafion granted them a sum of money for fub
fiftencc, they should not, whilst their ne
reuties. continued, withhold from them■what was proper for their decent ftjpporh
He wi!hed the amendment he had proposed
to be adopted,arwhen they became polfeffed
of their paternal -estate, they would be ena
hded to pay baGk what they had received
'from Cungrefi. . ,
Mv. Sewajl suggested to the gentleman 1
just fat down, whether it would not be bet- 1
ter to amend the refoluti«n by inserting the
following words, instead of what he had of
fered, viz. " during their necefTary residence ,
refpeclively within the United States."
Mr. Harper canfeoted.
Mr. Hartley did not like either of the a
mendments, as they were indefinite. - He
did not kriovr who was to judge ef the ne
ceflity of the residence, and it would be diffi
cult to ascertain when they became pofieffed
of their estate. He would rather grant the
petitioners something for life,or for a certain
period. On a former oceafron they made an
allowance to Baron Steuben for life, after
he had been, in a great degree, requited
far his services. Mr. H. dwelt upon the
importance of the service rendered by Count
de Graffe, in extending his stay beyond his
orders, and contrasted it with the eonduft
of Count d'Eftaing, who refufed to comply ;
with a like request ; the consequence of
which produced niifchievous effefts to the
Uuited States. He haped, therefore, an
allowance would be agreed to for five or se
ven yer.M.
Mr. Brookes believed the committee dif
fered more as to the manner of doing the
bufmefs, than on the question itfelf. He
thought there were but few members in the
House who tvould refufe aid to the petition
ers in one way or the other. Mr. B. n>ov
„ ed to insert five years, or to leave the time a
blank for which the grant should be made.
He moved the latter.
Mr. Rutkdge seconded the motion, he
was as much disposed as any gentleman to
relief to the Petitioners, and be liked
the prefent'fhapetif the refojution much bet
ter than any which had boen prrfented. He
did not wish the allowance to'be for life, nor
whilst their residence should be deemed ne»
ceffary. He looked on" the services of the
• Count de GrafTe as of great consequence to
this country, and that the situation of his I
daughters called for relief. But he coald
£ not fubferibe to the doftrine of his colleague
that he had rendered more important fervic- '
es in thiscountry than any other man. To
aflert this, he thought, was not doing justice ;
to our own citizens. He believed he could
mention a dozen men, who had rendered as
important services as he; bujt in mentioning
one, he might give offence to others, equal
ly deserving, and he did not with to hurt
the feelings of any of our brave citizens. 'Nor
did he admit that the services of the Count
were voluntary; .the report shewed that they
were verycarneftly solicited. He was, how
ever in favour of providing for the young
ladies. He thought the services of the fa
ther were such as claimed the attentkm of
the House to
Mr. Sewall liked his ®wn proposition bet
ter than the substitute; but as he wished to
afford r*Kef to thtr*Petitionera.in some way,
he would-withdraw hismotien to make room
*• for it.
Mr. Williams offered some remarks upon
what had fallen from the gentleman from Si-
Carolina (Mr. Harper) with refpetl to his
tender feelingt; and concluded with obser
ving, if it were a loan only which was wan
ted, the proposition fhouid be so exprefTed.
Mr. BayarcLcJld not underffftd what thev
gentleman from fc>. Carolina (Mr. Harper)
had said, went to disparage the services of
any officer of the United States. He tho't,
the warmth and enthusiasm with which that
gentleman pleaded the cause of the memori
alists was highly honourable to him. He did
not understand the services of '■he Count de
Graffe to {land uper. the fame footing with
j those of pur own citizttis; for, though their
services were not fufficiently compensated,
yet they received something, but he or his
family, neverreceited any thing, by way of
compensation, except what had been allow
ed to his daughters. If, therefore, he were
to be put upon the fame footing of our own
citizens, his family would be entitled to
make a larger demand than any allowance
they were proposing to make them.
Mr. iLivingflon apprehended it was veny
immaterial whether the resolution was a
greed to in a limited way, or for life ; in
either cafe, he had a strong coiiviftion on
his mind, that the justice and humatiity of
the country would never fuffer these ladies
to want, whilst they remained in U. Mr.
L. severely censured what had fallen from
his colleague (Mr. Williams) and charged
him with a want of feeling to all claims, tho
he obje&ed to this, because the demands of
our own citizens were unattended to. He
added, that his constituents would r.ot thank
him for his penurioufnefs. Some gentle
men, he said, had objefted to the proposi
tion from conflitutional scruples, thinking
the conilitution did not authorise them to
extend a grant to this cafe. These gentle
men were entitled to more rofpedt. He
paid due deference to their opinions ; but
he felicitated himfelf, that these objections
had no weight with him. He afted from
those warm principles of benevolence, which
he hoped always to preserve. When the
conflitution of the United States was fra
med, it was intended for the general good ;
and in this was included, the power to re
ward services which have a claim upon our
jufticc and humanity : for though these
services might not be reduced to a demand
in pounds, fhillirigs and pence, yet if they
were such as required attention from nation
al generosity and national juflice, they
ought to be heard, and such were the ftr
vices, all inufl allow, of Count de Graffe.
Mr. L. touched upon the importance of
these ferviees to the United States, and ask
ed whether the house would deny the poor
pittance proposed to be given, when these
were considered. He deprecated the idea
of granting any thing to the petitioners on
' the ground of charity. The refolulion did
not propose this. It proposed a grant in
consideration of important f<ffvices, This
ground Was honourably, that pitiful. Ht
ftould be afli'amed a(k chtrity for the pe
trtionerrs; fie atkeJ? jufiice: he believed they
were not disposed to a(k charity. Mr. L.
concluded by juftifying the committee in
making the report they had made, as the
only one, which, in their opin ion, would
be equal to the adequate relief of the peti
tioners. <
Mr. Harper rose to juflify himfelf againjl
a charge of disparaging the merits of our own
brave' officers. He did not expe3, when it
was well known that no man had ever (hewn
ngreater regard to this daft of citizens thanth: j
had done, that such a fentimer.t Jhould for a
mi/meat have been harboured by any genthmen ■"
in'that hjjufe. But he did fay, and would again j ,
fiy, that no Jingle individual had it in bis po- i
w'er to do so important an aS for the United
States as the Count de Grafse had done, though
he knew there were thousands, and tens of
thousands of our citizens, who would be rea
dy to do it, if they were placed in the famefitua
tion.
Mr- Williams answered the remarks of
his cullegue (Mr. Livingjlon J and denied '
that he had ever been backward in attending '
' to the claims of his fellow citizens ; he had al- ;
ways been ready to do them fullJ'ujlice: As to j
his conjlituenti not thanking him for objecting to '
this claim ; he thought they would be better fat is
jicd with his condu3 than if he were to com
mence a system of ptyifions.
Mr. Shepara did not think any Gentleman
would have objeSed to the proposed allowance.
No one officer, hefaid, ever didfuch important ,
• services for the United States as the Count de
■ Grajfe ; and he was certain that no officer in
■ the army wouldfeel hurt lit what had fallen
i from the gentleman from S. Carolina on his sub- ;
• je 3. They would le glad ti hear of our own of
ficers and soldiers being fully compensated ; but j
: if this could not be done, they would be glad to j
> find foreigners mcr?fortunate. He hoped the
1 rjotulion vuould futf' ;if net, theyJhould eh- .
■ pear odious, not only to their own country, but
■ to every other.
■ After a few words by Mr. Hartley & Mr.
- 1. Claiborne, in favour of the resolution, the
'■ qucjlion was put and carried, without a divi
> fion.
>1 The committee rose, the House took up the
1 resolution, ( the time andfum both being blank)
: , agreed to it, 57 votes being in its favour. It
■ was referred to the select committee to bring in
> i a bill. '
; j Mr. Livingston, from the committee of
1 commerce and manufactures, made unfavour
' able reports on,the following cases, viz. on the
f petition of Isaac Stevens, late a prisoner at Al
■ giers, who prayed for relief ( the committee
t Jlate they have less <tlußancc ia determining a
r gainjl this petitioner than they Jhould have, \be
t caufethey suppose he may find relief from the
' Marine Hofpitalpropofed to be ejlabltlhed) ;on
- the petition of Simon Forrejler, of 80/lon. who
> %ught a remission of duty on Hemp tlejlroyed
- by Fire ; and on the petition of William White,
f of Boflon, who prayedfor a deduction of duty,
■ix —.... > ~if- of Sherrv irovinp ofa
- w.rfe quality by 30 than it ought to
) have teen.—The House concurred in these re
, ports.
1 He also reported favourably on the petition
of Pierre Aupoix, of New-Terk, refpediong a
1 drawback whioh. had beed refufed to him on
• account offame informality.—Referred to a
s committee of the whole• *
Mr. Harper fa'd, that at the lajl fejfion,
- was a bill brought forward for prohibi
. ting ettizens of the United States from entering
e« into the military or naval service of any foreign
) priuce or Jlate, which was agreed to in that
f house, but finally pojlponed. As the fame rea
t • fan exijledfor the bill now, as exifled then he
t w'Jhed to have it again brought before the house
- and for that purpose proposed a resolution for
i the, appointment of a committee to report such a
- bill•—Ordered to lie on the table.—Adjourned.
—MMMWW'wWK' 111 111 Wll—llW—w
'• NEW THEATRE.
»
* { THIS EVENING,
JANUARY 3,
Will b'c prefcnt'c<l the favorite TRAGEDY of
e l THE REVENGE.
1 Don Xlonzo, Mi, Moreton —Don Carlos,
3 Mr. Fox—Don. Alvarez, Mr. Warren —Don
e M anuell Mr. Warre), jun.—Zanga, Mr. Fen
nel—(being his firft appearance here thel'e three
, years.)
Leoporji, Mrs. Merry—lfabella, Mils L'Ef
traiige;
To which will hea«lioH,the Comis Opera of
n THE ROMP.
Box, one Dollar ; Pit, thres quarters of a Dol
-5 br ; and Gallery, half a Dollar.
C?" The doors of the Theatre will open at five,
n and the curtain rife precisely at fix o'clock.
, Tickets to be had at H. and Rice's book-itore,
No. 50 Market-street, and at the Offic* adjoining
0 the 'lheare. VIVAX RKSPUtLICA !
if _
£ Cj* The new Comedy of the tyre for the
Heart /cljc, which was. received with the
most distinguished and flattering bursts of
applause, will be repeated on Friday ; and.
6 those Ladies and Gentlemen who were dif
-0 a-ppointedof places in the Boxes at the lad
rcprefentation of Wives as they were, are
e refpedtfulty acquainted that it will b« per
*• formed on Saturday—after which it mnft
s neceiTarily be laid aside on account of new
pieces in preparation.
stated of the American
Philosophical Society will be held at their
. Hall on Friday the sth of January inft.
when between the hours of two and live
r o'clock p. m. the officers for the en filing
■ year will be ele&ed.
d January 3. "
y Just Imported,
And for Sale at William Priestman's,
y 1 No. 129, South Front Street,
j Nex} door to tha Ciifiom House, a !ari»e affort
mint of low priced Silver Watche— coiitilling of
£ plain, capt. capt an ! jewtil'd, slope aril seconds ;
1 Cold Watches by M*dge, Fllicct, Holmes, Tre
ient, &c. A time-keeper by Arnold-*-Diamond
r and Pearl l ings and loekets, some plated candlc
t sticks, tlefpnl double barrel'd sruns by Mortimer,
a Ho. by Paiker, duelling pi;io!s by Trimbly, a re-
flowing telrlVope, by Rcbrigl t, a box ot patent
. ni dic.ne, bo lbs of Scotch thread, adoienof tra
velli?ccars, and ifniiil colUilior. of fcarcevafu
-1 able be
s Dicemter 13 daw
Xijc <sas€ttc* <
PHILADELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY EVF.NIN.'G, JANUARY 3. ■'
.- f;
Our obliging Con'VfpirideHt at N&iu.-TTork, 1 ],
has favored u 1 with tie fulloiuyig Late ' i
and Interefling Itifjrm ti::/. • a
" New-Tork, fan. 1. j
" A veflel ttys moment arrived from J v
Havre, which it ltYl November 7- — ■ f
brings, pofit'ive ofj2 Peice _> t
tween the- Emperor and France. The'
Captain fays, he failed at fright and In t
haste, being alarmed at a prospect of t
war with this country."' )
\
Since receiving the above, we learn 1
that a hand-bill is in town, received from *
New-York, which contains fame of the (
outlines of the treaty between Austria j
and France—viz.
That Mantua is to.remain in pofTefflon !
of the French, and tlftt the latter are to
have liberty to march an army through r
die Emperor's dominions, to attack Han- x
over, in cafe England does not make '
peace, See. t
The Portuguese minifler had orders to <
leave Paris in twenty-four hours, in con- <
sequence of the court of Lisbon's per- '
mittingthe Englifli to take possession of '
one of their forts. ,
Ar. order was sent to Switzerland, re- j
quiring the government tobanifh Wicb
ham, and all other Eii<*lith emlfraries
from their territory in 24 tipiirs, or they
would declare war against them.
A gentleman arrived in town this day
from New-York, informs that a report
was brought by the above arrival, that ■
the American mmifters had been arrett
ed at Pari^
The American fbipping had all engag
ed double sets of hands to expedite their
departure, expecting a declaration of war
every moment.
At a meeting of the Stockholders of the
Bank of the United States, on the idind.
the following gentlemen were chosen Direc
tors for the ensuing year :
Thomas Willing
Elias Boudiiiot
Samuel Breck
Joseph Anthony
■ l,»w ' Archibald M'Call
Hcn T7 am
William Bingham
Robert Smith
Isaac Whartotl
James S. Cox
Thomas Ewing
James C. Fisher
Abijah Dawes
Joseph Sims
John G. Wachfmuth
Ellidon Perot
Jabob Powning
John Laurance New-York
Abijah Hammond ditto
Thomas Pearfall ditto
Gerard Walton ditto
John G. Lake ditto
William Heiiderfon ditto
Jacob Read South Carolina
Harrifon G. Otis Massachusetts.
At a meeting of the Direftors lad evening
Thomas Willing was chosen President.
Authority.
William Willis, Gorrful of the U. States
at Venice, to be Consul at Barcelona in
Spain.
James Blake of Pennsylvania, consul of
the United States at the city of St. Domin
go in theifland of St. Domingo.,
Daniel Hawley of New York, Consul of
the United States ac the Havannah in th£
island of Cuba.
Married.on Weduefday evening lad, Mr.
W(lliam Turner, eo the afriiable and ac
complished Miss Lydia Gasksll—both
of this city.
\ln the Legislature of this, date on the
30th ult. 3 petition was received from sev
eral land holders on Gunner's crtek, pray
ing a repeal of the law wl\ieh obliges them
• to keep up a floodgate at the mouth of the
creek. Dr. Leib reported a bill fupple
menrary to the Jaw for extending the poijr
er of the judices of the peace, by which
the law for theappointment of ahigh conda
ble of the Northern Liberties is proposed
to be repealed, and a power to be given to
the people to eleft all their Condables. A
report was made in favour of a petition from
Northumberland, praying for a permiflion
j for their swine to run at large without
( yokes or rings. The house went into, a
> committee of the whole on the bill empow
ering the commiflioners of Weftmoreland
, connty, to appoint affeflors arid affidant af
j feflors, and reported a bill'without amend
| ment.
ExtraS of a letter from Holland, (jth Septem
bcr, 1797.
! "If the war is renewed with the Empe
ror, of which lately there was the greated
probability, and the negociation at Lisle is
interrupted, of which there can be little
doubt, the importance of the neutrality of
the United States will be encreafed in their
! eyes, though not in an equal degree as what
it would have-bren if the moderate's had
maintained theirground, under a continu
ance of the war But should peace be the
result of this aft of the Directory, the inr
| Colonc? of the demands will he proportion
ed to their date of security. The Direc-
I tory inaliprobability will endeavour to make
| p»3ce with the Emperor and Euglatd im
mediately that they may at once edabiifh
their own power, and at the fame time (hew
the nation that the' removal of the forty
members and of their two colleagues was
less a measure of revenge than a flep lead- j
ing to peace. But the emperor is drongft
at this moment than ever, and the wound to
the bank cf England havir.g healed, under
circumstances that mauifeft great credit and
vigor, and the mutiny of the fleet, in being
subdued, having Hdded to the difopline of '
the BrUifh navy, and to the dreugth of the. ,■
government, neither the Ethperor nor the ,
Britilh are noyv in a situation to Jobmit to
the terms upou which the French have hi- i
therto infilled. Ido not expeft prace this
year. The great obdaclt which lam con- ,
vincedthe commifSoners of States t
to France or any other American miniders .
upon the continent in Europe will have to /
encounter, is the idea that America is divt- J
ded into two parties ; both government and
people—the one British the other French. ,
That idea, so baneful and so humiliating and i
so falfe, works at the Jiot torn of every pro- 1
' jest gnd every propofitiou. which a politi
cian forms here, and is discoverable in eve- \
ry conversation upon American affairs,
which are all supposed to have a relation to ,
such a date of things. All men entertain
it as a truth as well eftablifiied as that in
this country there existed the fame divided
before their revslution. No real
efficiency will belong to the miniders of the ,
Uhited States; no weight to their demands;
and no strength be felt or acknowledged,
until tltflt fundamental error lliall have been j
removed by such measures as the wisdom of i
government may adopt."
ioth Sept. i 797.
" It is thus, fir, a truth which cannot be
denied, that the republic of Batavia has
plirchafed her peace, her friendfhip, her pre
sent lot with France, or is indebted to her
for what (he acknowledges to be still due
(and of the unpaid sums bills as they term
them, are circulating at four and five the per j
cent entered) at the enormous price of
230,000,000 guilders, or twenty-two mil
lions and a half derling at lead.
After this certain loss that is reduced to
figures, it would be perfeftly correct to
slate 'the loss of artillery after the peace, the
depredations of the stores and magazines,
and the confifcations or seizure of the estates
in Flanders, belonging to the prince of O
range, who a fubjeft ef therepublic, if drip
ped owed his drippings to the republic of
Batavia and not to the French—the use
which is tha dominion ofFlulbing, the per
petual cloathing of troops in rotation, and
loss by affignats, at 30,000,000 more. The
'fird is account the last edimate.
Surely, too fir, mud be added that incal
culable loss which arises from the present
slate of things, not conne&ed with war rifles,
xiatv wf LlJugs, in which
we behold fear and suspicion succeed confi
dence between man and man : a dagnation
of commercial capital arising from apprehen
sions of change and nflability : the fall in va
lue of every fort of /fixed property, and a ge
neral internal decay. At Amflerdam alone,
are and have been for near three years, ele
ven hundred foips laid up and worm eaten.
It is not a fair charge againd the French
to attribute to them cxclufively, the loss of
the East-India monopoly, and the colonies
of Batavia, but it ought not to be overlook
ed while the full force of this dreadful exam
ple is under view to date as a probable thing
that if a bnld and aSive party in this country
had not invited the Freneh and encouraged their
ambitiw, there is great rsafon to believe
that the republic might have made peace
; with France as other nations ; as Prussia
did, and not have been forced into a change
of fides, and into that new war in which
such difaders have succeeded each other
■ without aJtnglt benefit."
COMMUNICATION.
(Omitted in our lafl. )
That " an adjuflment of affairs between
the United Slates and France" may be effect
ed by means of the pending negociation is
i poflible ; but it is not the more probable
because M. Talleyrand Perigord has expres
sed that sentiment with an intention of mak
ing it public in this country—This wary
■ and intriguing prelate has been in America,
' and has acquired a knowledge of the date
and drength of parties, not merely by ob
serving our political movements, but by in
: finuating bimfelf into the confidence of ref
peflable families ; and watching the current
of private conversation. He knew that his
1 letter would reach u« while cengrefs should
be in fefiion, and thought with too much
■ reason, that it would be difficult to rally or
unite a majority in favor of protective mea
sures, while a French officer in this country
■ is authorized to fan the embers of expiring
1 hope—He therefore plays his part like au
< experienced aftor—He does not doubt of
an amicable adjudment-—lf he fpeak3 to
1 shis country, can he fay lefs—Hereafter he
1 will tell us that as a miniller of France he
had no right to doubt, fchat our commif
-1 fioners would agree to an amicable adjuflment
■ upon such terms as his country should dic
' tate—Has he told the consul general, that
• compensation will be made for losses, and
■ that the orders for taking our vefTels will be
revoked ? Has he developed any principles,
which it is intended should form the basis
- of an accommodation? If so, let us be fa
vored with a knowledge of them. But un
- til tbefe shall be explicitly dated, we must
t continue to doubt. The consul also may
i tell the bishop that the people will not much
; longer, fufTer themselves to be duped and
f amused by fair words. Thlt the public o
r pinion with refpeft to his nation has en
t tirely changed ; and that thole sentiments
1 which he knows were general among the
- men of charafter and talents, during hi| re
: fideuce here are now adopted by the mass
- j of our citizens—pride of opirion and bad
habit# of rcafonjng mi* prefrwe <»n
nace of opposition within certain wa!.:., ..Jf
which fvvn his sagacity may be milled. •
But the friends he has left among In to c, ' n j
tinue thk system of ckrrjeil'iary visits, will
be able to inform him. that the I reP.i.
of the United States spoke the langvaj,.'>
his fellow-citizens, when he said that tiff
condudl of the French "had'ittfiiß<d a •ii' i'
in the American breaji. It cannot be afg'Mjiit
it <w'iU not focn be forgotten-"
Mr. Fenno,
THE « Mmiu Uiui, tSV* prmtmeu my f>T»at»r,
at enmity with his pea erf ml fesHi weniti How a:n be i- •
ine ' so, wi'bout admitttimg tb'fc feac cful ft %t Vte>
trrie non t*ftal? fiitt «■ tf my pth do bim rhU, tb.n
be butb •wr *'
The *' frit d" nnft dies me if be thinks tve tin cfhxf
to peace—l am ho ftil* only to the folly ar.d vanity of bis
temfonirv. or rather dee lam ah cn, on tl« fuhjefl*
The forcieven you gave us, on J\4onday evening, of tMf
"Ifrigmfs" political arithmetic, was as great a curhfiy
as bis n rcantile arithmetic, ft muf. have lr~n a rare
rule indeed by which be rvas able ftecifely to afeertmn the
pecuniary tJtnpenfniton adequate to the I ofs if morals. I
fee be has computed tbt immorality aid general liermtir■ r nfs
introduced by two vfars at fx aft Iy £. 9 s'.'C ,000':
I Juppofe be has'fme pecuniary scale, by -which he tart
nicely graduate every fpecics of immorality ■ A rain < po
lities tjiuft be f.illacs^ us indeed\ wlen be cm coolly calculate
the loss vf morals by pounds, Jbilf'ifgs and prrce / / /
Be fides, J dbferve lis (jfcvldfbv i?ta'Je at Paris :
and / da nvf Fel eve that America ir'tll 'as f ft at present in
receiv'J-r lerp liiual creed from that p!pce
T'figr'fikd-ok Saturday evetunr that I bid for.e firoxg
fufpi. on ibnt iho " friend" was concerted ht privateers--*
He br* by tlx- fact am I da>e of bis c A.-is&tions, n-rv de
mo f rated to my u-Jerfiandh*. r vhnt lefre / odyfirong
/v fufpM. Thy are dated at fart* a few dap mere
than a year finer— pretend to be calculations agai ft
en*erinv into a ••far with Creet-Br:ta<n. ConftJerng tig
rdotty it it imprffihie this covld have beeni the dfrjn cf them :
the complex'sju of them mvf have been Jtace altered to f*'t
the occfun- -At that time thtproprietv or impropriety of
O't r enter rjr into <7 ivai UJ+th Great' Ur it a'n cou'd not have
ben gi rt'-d—The rjtsrfiicn at Par's then iras, fin it
Frcr'ce ma hew r upon H?e {fitted States ? The meaf-res
that Frrnee bad adopted tvith r.-f *7 to cur com Mere toeye
at thai t'me well alPurit: jfnd the encouragement
they, fj&ivediy then in Pars >is rc*u/ iv'i r
unJetflood here, .Ji ffOf tL-< iuftneft of fat ft *rb+**'
ed to plunder our commerce to- represent ft at i&f offer
permit our merchants to arm in their oiundcfenr fr.
that war, not ivitb Great Br tair, with
fiould be t/je consequence—And from the place arc
the" friends" calculations, they vtufnbaie hen. »-
this view, whateverfbape they if ay ueio tu. ■
An £nerw r
The following melancholy at d „
dence of the effe£ls of Frat;-
and Republican piracy, upon our
merce, has, for some reason or other,
omitted in all the city'Gazettes>.
Arrivals at the Port of Philadelphia, during
the year 1796,
Ships 199
Snows and Brigs 436
Schooners 594
Sloops 396
I . 1797 •
Ships 167
Snows and Brigs 326
Schooners 549
~ Slnop" . \ • . 37 8
j 1420
Decrease of Arrivals, 205
Cleared from the Port of Philadelphia, dur
ing the year 1796,
Ships 184
Snows and Brigs 424
Schooners • 633
Sfoops 382
1797.
Ships 146
Snaws and Brigs 291
Schooners 480
Sloops 396
Decrease of Clearances 330
|" c? The owners of the Brigantine
Mercury, William Urn l- , matter, captured by
a Spamfli privateer and fold at Cei;ta in laii Dr
ceHibcr, may receive inti rpfting information ref
pecfling ker, by applying to the Department of
State. '
*. * The Printers in the sea-port towns of
the United States will render a fcrvice to the
concerned, byinl'crting the above in tbeir news
papers. Jan- 3.
••
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal
Company.
January 3d, 1798.
. r P\HE Ftoekholders ire requoieU to attend an
X adjourned meeting te be held ar tKe Com
pany's office at 6 o'clock Fridjy evening.
Jan.j. » djt
Valuable Books,
Just received by the Fair American from
London, and now opening and felling by
J. Ormrod, No. 41, Chefnut Street.
CATALOGU£S
Of the newly imported books may l>e had gra
tis. These added to O's usual stock, form an
extenljve and elegant colle<Sion of ancient and
: modern literature, and comprise Hn :ks in l'un
-1 dry languages ai.d yn various fubjedts.
This Day is Publijhed,
ByJ. Ormrod, (i'rice 75 etnts, handsomely
howrd 2nd lettered, and embellifli-c! with au
elepsrit tromifriece and seventy three cut«.)
The Looking Glass for the Mind,
I o R,
The Juvenile Friend ;
, Be.ng a va'g* >le eolfeilion of iitere.ling and
, miscellaneous incidents, calculated to exhibit 10
young minrls the happy effeifl? of yourhful in
nire.ire and filial affaiiion —ln crofe and ver e.
L Defigncd to improve and afflufe the riling ge.ie
' ration.
f In the Press, and will be fwedi'y jHibliflied,
1 Dr. DARWIN'S 1
1 Plan of Female Education.
Pubfc riptirns for this incomparable work will
- be thankfully received by the printer. The book
s will contain about three hundred pages, will be
nrinted w ,l i n w type Or fine pap de
livered to fubferibers nra.ly bouni, lit ered and
embellished with an elegant frontifpiece, for one
s iolbr.
1 January 3. -t.FOR SALE, AT
Wm. Young's Book Store, t
No. s>| Second street, the corner of Ch-fnut Arret, '
RKP6RT of the Committee of the House of <
Repnrfentatives of the United St i:?s, appoint- <
ed to prepare and report Article* of Impeachment *
ajriinft V: ILL I BLOUNT, a Senator of the i
United States, impeached of high criro.sanjd fliif
dcme-.uiora, made in pursuance of a reiufacioa of
the Houfvof RcprWenutives, authorizing the fatd
Committee to fit during the reccfs of Ccngref% and \
inftracing rhem " to enquire, *r.d, ly a 1 lawful j j
14 meant, todifcovcr thr whole nature and txt ot
" of the offence whereof the-laid William Blount
" ftv-ds impcache , and who-are the parties and
M affqeiatrt therein '*
Printed by qrder of the House of Rep refe '.tat i i'ej.
December 2C. V §
Thomas Randall,
PRESENTS his refpeAvto hi- Friends, and the
Public in general, rrfonnsthem that hehasopen«?d
an Office, athis house, No. 88, Spruce '.lreet, for
thepurpoleof tranfa&ing business iu the line of
Co.nniiifion and Agency, collecting jtftts and out
ftamling claims in any part of the United State®.-
He flatters him felf, thatfrom his long refc Jot ice in
this wjuntiy and a general knowledge of it, hisfer
cices will he found worthy the notice of those who
may pie.#-- to confide to him the management of
any of their concerns.
N- B. Security given where required.
, iTth mo 14 3tawtf
Landing this day,
From on boardtb« schooner Two Friends, Dan
lei Crawley, Mailer,
8 - and ; Jamaica RUM, c
12, pipes j J i
FOR SALE BY - j
George Latimer & Son. j
tfr 'Oil.'rr q.
Imported in the Ihip Man Chester,
Benjamin Shewell, Master,
From Bouideaux, and foriale by the fubferiber, ■>
No. ji Walnut Stieet. |
lionvdeaux Brandy ") I
Iri(h market claret in cases Entitled to . 1
Medoc wine, in do. Drawback, j
Snuterne, do. do. J ,
Thomas Murgatreyd:
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter calks
liota do. do. v
Pimento in bags
4000 bulhels Liverpool fait. .
Aug. 24. tut&stf- 1
SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL presents his
moil refpe.lftii compliments to his form
er employers and the citizens in general, ajid re
turns his molt grateful thanks, for the very
bountiful enconragemeut he has expetienced for
tnefe twenty-five years past. takes this opportu- <
nily of informing them, Vhat his school is now 1
<ij>en, at hjs J
Elegant Ball Room, i
in South Fonrtli-Street, between Chefnut and '
\Valr.ut-ftre#ts. To begin at loin 'he morning
for young ladies, and 6in the evening for yoang 1
gentlemen. ,
Dec; aawtf. L
Canal Lottery-—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, thezoth
inft. Tickets for SaJe in this I.otMry, at
Ssve* Dollar,, at Wm. M-AGKBURN'.
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Secorad-tlreet
- it the ScW'kill Bridge Lottery, at T«i
DoUars, where check books are kept lor register
ing and examining inthefe, the City of Wafiiing
top, No.II. and Paterfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may he had In most of theLotte
riesj*uthorif«d by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The business of aßaoKtu.in buying and
filling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcounti-.g Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses. &c. &c. will be duly attended to,
by Wm. BLACKBURN.
novsmlier . §
James fcf Richard Smith,
HPAKE the liberty of informing their friends
A and the public, that they hare removed their
11 ore to No. 54, South Front'ftreet. next d«or to Ed
ward Fox's Auition Room, where they have at
this time for file, 3 large and general affortmentof
European & Eaji India Goods,
Many of which are just imported in the Clothier,
William Peon, &c. &c.
Oi?l. it- ®
* ' NOW LANDING,
At South-street Wharf,
The Cargo of tbe Ship Concord,
Captain Thompson, from Bitavia.
About 300 tons firft quality Java Coffee (the
whole "having betn fele Aed)
Bo\ons Java Sugar, in taoiflers and bag 9
10 legurcs of old Arrack
Nutu«eg*, Macc ao<i CloVe(K
fOR SJ4LS BT
PETER BLIGHT.
Who also offers For Sale,
Jutl landed from flup Amity, from Jamaica.
20s hhds, Jamaica and
170 do. do. Rum. .
novembtr 13. J , ■ 4^"'
FOR SALE, '
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. * c, the corner of Chefnut and Front streets,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. A Jo, a general assortment of Tools,
Eiles and Materials, confiding of Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hour brass pinions
and Urge work ; Bells, clock atfd watch Dials,
Springs, Hands, Glasses, Pu.uice Stone k Emery,
Rotten Stone, Cat Gut; bench, fland and tail
Vices; Turns, Ware,Chains,Seals,Keys, &c. &c.
• * Apprentices Wanted.
, novettibcr 3. fft tuts
Fc>r l'ale or to be tet on ground
v • rent,
A-valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the uorth-eillcorner of Waii
nut and Fifth ftreeU, fronting the State-
Houl'efquare; This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
prefcnt twofmall two fliory brick honfei, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
A\fa, for Sale,
Two three story Briqk Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c.lituateon
Water-street, between Mulberry and Saflafras
streets, containing in front on Water street Gf-
and continuing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
ave the conveyance of a public alley adjoming
on the north fide, and are a very desirable situa
tion for a merchant, flour faJlor,or others who
may have occ&fion for Uorage of goods. This
.)! -,rrty will be fold on very reafonahle t«rms
forcaft. For further infdrmation apply to the
printer.
July 3 1. ro&wtf
A pei foil well acquainted with
the theory and whoh .s .wec.J
miuvyean''ngagediiitiulinc(sWiiii.<icit andothcrs^
«ouid be glad to be ein plovd, cither as an agmt
or fdftor ; or in polling tx>oks ; stating unfettieH
accounts ; or in executing any othe. ki:id of writ- (
inj, in French or Engli li. ]
A note addrelTed to J. A. and left at this oflice,
will be nunctually attended to. <
november 30. gawtf (
FOR SALE,
I By the Suescßißca, at his Store, No. 75. South
V. ater-ftrect,
A general aflortmsnt of China .
War^
Black and coloured Sattir.s r
Do. do. LnteitriHg9
Do. da- Ha: nd3cef chiefs
Do. do. fewiiijrjSilks
Imperial and Hyson Teas
Long and iliort Nawkeens /
Qtyck Silver, iji tubs f
Holland Gin, in pipes *
Aflorted Olafs Ware, in cases / \
White and brown Havanua Sugars, in boxes a
MolaiTes, in hegfheads ♦ v
St. Croix Rum and sugar, in do.
London particular Madeira Wipe
Sherry and Malaga Wines, in quartT cases
Red, yellow and pale Barks, in chests I
Logwood, &c. &c.
nev 7.7—to&fnw yOSEPH 81MS.
TO LET,
A Front Room, suitable for an I
Office or Counting house, with a largjs Cellar.
Any person who may rent the above, may (if re
quired) be accommodated with. Board and Lodg
ing in the fame house: Enquire at no. 180, South
| Front, near Pine street.
December 13. . 3 ai ?3 w I
Uriah Smith,
No. 20, north Third street—has for SAtE,
A neat and general assortment of f
i Broad Cloths,Kerfeymeres,Napt a
I and Drab Coatings. also, f
1 A variety of Gciitlemens' falhionable fancy Waist
( coating, filh Hosiery, &<. (
December < *eodiw
10 Gentlemen who intend /pending '
the Winter in the City. \
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without Board —at No. 114, corner
ofJSixth anH Race Streets. The (ituation
agreeable— and vicinity has been free from the late
contagion. OA. 27. —dtf
NOTICE.
To holders of JAM$.$ GREENLEAFs
and EDWARD FOX's Engagements
IN confequente of many having been prevent
ed, from late unavoidable circumstances from
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former'
notice. The Trustees llow inform them, they
are ready to iflue she fame to those who may ap- '
ply within fixtydays, at No. 8 Chefnut Street,
and those who do not, will beconfiderid as re
linquiftiing tkeir claim ©rt the Aggregate Fund
provided £or their pavmerit.
HENRY PRATT,
TIJC MAS W. FRANCIS,
JOIIW MILLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER.
December I?. dftct
ITETT
At Alderman'Bedfcrd's office, Combardllreet,
No. BS, ahoflt three weeks ago, a wjiole piece
of cotton, fuppoftd to be Ilolen—any person
hiving loft the fame, proving property and pay
ing charges may have it again.
December 26. *eo,^t-
Imported (via New York) on the
Ihip Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and lor
sale by the at No. 61, Chefnut street,
between Second and Third Street*, the follow
ing articles .
Maharagonges Charconna Dorans
Chintz and Calicoes Dacca worked mufiins
Gillis Romals Bandannoes
Nillas & Penfiafoes Chafla Romals
Blue cloth Hair ribbon
MullMuilhankerchiefsPalempores -
Patna do. Banares Opium
. Lesser Cardimum Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox,
november 17 tuths4w
> " J
Chocolate and Mustard,
•f a superior quality manufa<slured,
GINGER and Pepper, ground ; (helled or
pearl Barley ; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
, Ale and Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Ale ;
London Porter ; red. Port and Lilbon Wine,
2 suitable far exportation or home consumption.
The highest ptice given for Mustard-Seed.
Also for sale, A quantity of Bocking and
common Baizes, a variety of colors; a bale of
Fuflians, Shawls; &e, for sale by, . «
JOHNHAWORTH,
Nq. 98:, south Fiont-ftreet,
noi\ >7. m.&th.t.lJ.
MUSIC.
J. L. LENZ,
R__ Teacher 01 Vocal and inflrumental Music,
ETURNS hisnnccre thanks to the Ladies and
. Gentlemen, from whom he v received .1 very
liberal encouragement since his residence in this ci
', ry, and refpeSfuHy informs his friends and thepub
| lie generally, that, in consequence of the rc-queft
of some of his friends, he has opened a Musical
School at his house in Spruce Street No 174, where
he will teach o»ihe Piano forte, Violin See. &c—
---" He deems it unnecessary to enlarge upon the ad
' ' vantages the learner will derive frotr. An inftituti
jj onof this kind; he will only fay, that attention
1 and zeal are much excited in an afff-mbly, where
C ' numbers are io pursuit of the fame His
arrangement is such, that an interference of the
_ the different sexes will be avoided. Those Ladies
[. and Gentlemen who .cannot make it convenient to
attend at his school, he will wait ufkrn at their
houses. Applications will be thankfully receiv
ed at his houfc, where his terms and further parti
ii culin may be known.
e- Dec. 7. *lweod
Alphabetical Litl of Duties,
Payable by law x>n all Goods, Wares, and Mer
chandise, inVported into the United Sfates—latcft
edition, to he fold by JOHN OR.MROD, no. 41,
Chrfr.uti Oreet Dt*c 16 —d
Davis s Law Book Store,
m No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAV IS, '
TOEING busied for some time pafc in prcpara-
JJ tions for removing into his prsfent house, has
lr been nndertheneceffityof pollponinguntil this day
;,s informing thegentKm'jn of the Bar generally thro'
S the United States, that his spring importation of
'• law booki, is now arranged'and ready for lale, on
10 termsthat he tra'.ts will tntitlehim to thalika pre
'» freence he has ixperießced for leveral years past.
is Catalogues, combining tbe most varied collec
e tioii ever imported i«ito this country, are printed
and will be delivered on applicai.on.
June 47. aaw
Prison Manufaftory.
J i FO'* SALE, S
At theTrifon of th&City and County of Phiiadel
Out Nails of- "from to iody { v
FJooring Kr,ads, fiddle and card Tacks 1
Oalcum a,risThipp<?d Ijogwaod
Alfo-:®Jfe Marhle. fuliable for currier's tables, t
tomb and heau itones, hearth®, chimney piecs, t!
platforms, Window hea«i*, till*. C . r
All which r:tay he had on reasonable terms. £
SJhaes made and Wearing 4one a.( f?id Prison at v
a moderate price. -
. Orders from a cire&ed to Baniel Tho- t(
mas, agent for-the wiil be attended to. t).
December.26 p
sTp L E N I
Out of
cloticloal-jmlf worn. Theinfide of theSollar
is faced partly vijith fearlet velvet and partly
with fearlet cloth, and it has a silver hook c
and chairt as a fallening, A suitable reward v
will be paid for retloring it.
' AVILLIAM MEREDITH "
No. hi South 3d Street. &
Dec. 16. diw
For Sale, by the Package, si
For cash, or good notes at sixty or ninetydays, e;
viz.
Book and Jaconet Muslins plain "|
stripes, and Checks ' AfTorted in j
do. do. Tamboured [> Dicka „ ei
do. Ladies handkerchiefs, & | "
gentlemen's i>eck do* J
Jaconet chintz muflitrfor home and the Weft
India market, PiiUicote and lir.en handkerchief's, 1
for do. do printed do. do. common purple and J
chintz shawls. a
The above goods entitled to drawback on ex- F
portation. Also a few scotch cambricks and an ft
aflortment of muslin by the piece.
The whole of the above heirrg a configument
from the manufa&urers in Britain. 3
To be seen at William Blackburn's a:
Office, 'No. 64, South Second Street.
Nov."6. • aawtf. '
NOW LANDING,
From on board the fliip Farmer, lying at Harper's c
Wharf,
Claret in hhds. J
Ditto in cases
Sauterne Wine iu do. i
Por Sale, apply to
JobnWhiteftdes Sff Co. t
No. 138, Marjcet-llreet. 1
Also, on hand,
Bourdeaux Brandy in .pipes
Fine old Antigua Rum
A few cales of Claret, of a superior quality,
november 49. 5
Seledl Subscription Balls.
NE{¥ ASSEMBLY ROOM,
South Fourth street, between Chefnut and Walnut
ftrcets.
MR. FRANCIS refpeiJlfully informs the fiiMcri
bers to tho above Balls, that the firfi will be
011 THefday, the ad of January, 1798.
a few names to the Select Subscription Balls
will be admitted, by application to Mr. Francis, no.
7p, norlh Eighth llreet.
Terms of fubfeription—each fubferiber to pay (
Five Dollars, which entitles him to a Gentleman's
Ticket, and cards of admjffion far two Ladies, to
each of the foui- Bklls—Th« BaTls io W^- 1 J 1
the number of fubfdribers to be limited to forty.
Sublcribers' Tickets will be ready For delivery
on Saturday the 30th inft.
,JVfV. Frahcis's .days of teaching for his young
pupils are Thnrfdays and Satut days from 3 o'clock
in the afternoon till 6, and from 6 till 9 for those
of a more advanced age. Private tttition either at
the AfTembly Room, or at his House No. 70
North Eight Street. ,
N.B. Due notice will be given of Mr. Francis's
second FrafUfing Ball.
Dec. 46. dtadj
All Persons
Having any demands aga<nft the Estate of rhe
late Captain George Irwin, are requeued to
brirtg in their accounts pioperly attested, on or
before the firft day off January ne*t ensuing
and those who a e indebted to said estate -are so
licited to make immediate payment to
SARAH IRWIN, Admmiftratrix.
no-v. 19 1797.
English Grammar,
The second edition, with improvements,
ADAPTED to the different ctaffes ps learners;
with appendix, containing rules and ob
servations for affiftingthetnore advanced students
' to write with perspicuity and accuracy,
BY LINDLEY MURRAY.
' " This is a publication of much merit, and fully
anfweis the profefiions in the Title, 'iheappen
, dix contains tome of the best rales for writing e
( legantly, and with prbpriety, that We recolleil to
have seen."
' . - Monthij Re-vtiw, July 1796.
" Tfiis Grammar is, on many accounts entitled
to commendatory notice, its materials have been
carefully and iiidicioufly
is diftimil and well adaptud to the purpose of in
ftruiSion and its expreniog is simple, perspicuous
and accurate, &ct"
See the character, at large 'in the Analytical
j Review, yuty 1796.
7
English Exercises,
IT Adapted to the Grammar lately publilhei by
Lindley Murray, conriliinj of exemplification of
the parts of fj)eech, inftancesof salsa orthography,
e violations of the rules of fyn ax, defeits in punc
~ tuation, and violation* of the rules refpe&ing
I perspicuity and accuraty, designed f»r the benefit
' of private learners, as wclj as for theufe of fchpols.
n "W« have beert much pleased with the perusal
, e of theft ExercifSs. They occupy with diftinguifh
-18 ed exti-llende a fnoft important pla(!e in the fciencc
e of the EngliQi lingu-agej and as such, we cdh
' s warmly recommend them to the Teachers of
0 Schools, as well as to all those who are desirous of
lr attaining correctness and precision in their native
. . toogne."-' 1
Monthij Review, Jnly 1797.
The above Books are fo| sale at Joseth & Jamks
December t. 3taw4w.
r- Ihe Hiftqry of Pennsylvania,
" Bv IvOBERT PROUD,
' TS naw * n the press, and will be publiftied,
a with all convenient expedition, bv ZtCHA
ri ah I'ouLsiS, jun. No. 8-),
Pfl't'jdelpjiia, «'here fuhferlpttons will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to tbe printed proposals, until toe
a " work is ready for the fubTcriibers.
s ® July 18. aawtf
<!• °JuJI Publifoedi
of And to be hid of Messrs. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice,
in Cary, ai»d the other pricipal .Booksellers in the
e- one dollar, twinty-five cents,in hoards,
New Views of the Origin of the
;d Trjbes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. d.
Juuc 40.
N6w-Theatre," A
December 11, I 797-
THE Manaoirs particularly request th« con
currence of the public ip the abolition of a
cuPom, which has hitherto obtained, of giving a
way or difpoling of RETURN CHfiCKS at the
Theatre.
The* are aware that gentlemen are unconscious
of an/ wrong done to t.ie interest of the inft-.tu
tionby this praflice, from a general, though mis
taken 'idea that Cheeks are the repxefentatives- of a l
fight to so many fcSts in the Theatre, during an
EveniflgYEntert&inntent, artd transferable at will ;
when in fait, they w t r; never intended as mare
than hltm by which the Door-keepers are enabled o
to ascertain wiih die 1-ail trouble to the f>,irties,th*t
they iientfelves have nceii Lcfbre in the Theatre, ior
paid for their admifTion. , '
Independent of the iajury the Managers sustain, °
such a pra&ice encourages a crotld of idle boys and
other disorderly persons to (iirround the doors of .
the Theatre, to the corruption of their morals and J
the-great anndyance of the Audience. n
It has .also been the source of tjvo evils of no in
considerable magnitude; one if, that faructitnes
very improper company is fcy thele means admit- Q
ted ; and the other, that to Checks palling
into dilhoneft hands, they have been frequently w
counterfeited to a large amount for the purposes of .
Sale
This statement will, it isrefpeilfully hoped, in-" -
duce the Public to discourage such a traffic : and J
the exertions of the Managers will, if thus assisted,
easily pK>ve adequate to its entire abolition.
WIGNELL REINAGLE. "I
December 13 iw
- ' ' 1 ... 1 _
Musical Infirtiment Manufactory,
167, Archiftfceet. jS
TO THE LOVERS OF HARMONY.
HARPER,
INFORMS his friends and the pufdic, that he has
now ready for sale, a few of his new invented,
and much admired fide board Piano Fortes, with
Pedals,patent I'welU fonopahant and French harp o
stop, which for sensibility of touch, brilliancy of j
tone, simplicity and durability of conltru&ion, the , \
fuperiorjty of which,he flatters himfelf, a Single tri- f r
al will convince the unprejudiced judge—As they i |,
are manufactured under his immediate inffeition, ) j'
of the very be-i seasoned materials, he ca» fell 011 j j
reasonable terms for Cash. Inftrumgnts repaired,
tuned, &c.
N. B. Second hand Piano Forte* taken in ex- 0
change for new. , '
ntrvember 18. aawtmo. *
Samuel & Miers Fiilier, t
ARE NOW OPE*INt3,
At their Warehouse, No. 47, Dock Street, a frelh
aHurtmCr.t of Woolen and other goods, iaitablc to
thefeafon, received by the late afrivals iroin Eng
land.
They have also for Sate,
Lisbon
£ and l uatter
Port Wines, J
A fforted queen's ware-in crates, &c.
loth mo- dtwjtawyv. _
City of Waihingtan. *
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal
A magnificent
& cash 30,000, are 50,000
1 ditto ij.ooo & cafo 15,00 a 40,000
I ditto XT,OOO Sc Ctft 'r.nnn
I auco o. 1 10,00©
I ditto 5,000 & caih j,ooo 10,000
1 ditto j,ooo & cafli j,ooo 10,000
1 cash prize of 10,000
3 do. s,oooeach, »rej • 10,000
10 "do. i,cto~o ' - - 16,00 c
io do. 5&0 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
300 do. 5° " • 10,000
400 do. 35 . • 10,000
1,000 do. 30 - 30,000
15,00© do. 10 • 150,000
16,7,39 Prizes.
33,361 Wanks. ,
50,000 Tickets, at EightDoUacs, 400,000 |
N. B. Tofavour those who may take a quan
-1 tity of Tickets,the prize o< 40,000 dollars "will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but OHI -.
And approvednotes, securing payment in either
monsy or prizes, in ten days after drawing, will
he received for anynumber not lefsthan 30 tick
ets.
; This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private buildings to be eretSled in the City of
i Washington—Two beautiful designs are already
fele&ed for the entire fronts on two of th« public
squares; from these drawings it is propped to ert/t
, twocentreand'ourcorserbuildings,is foonaspof
. fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
. when complete, to the fortunate adventursrs, in
, the manner described in the fchem.e for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to iWtay the neteffarv
t-1 "ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
j the fund intended for Iriie National Duitcrffty, to
t be erected within the city of Washington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the of the
s Brizes, are held by the President and two Diredl
orsof the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
/ more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL BI.QD.GET.
Tickets may be had at the Elaiik of Colsm
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Oilman, Boston : of John Hepkins, Richm»nd
f and of Richard W»U», Cooper's Fe-rrv. «iw
f '' ;
Samuel Pleafants £sf Sons,
No. 74, South Second-Jireet,
~ TLX AVE received a supply of Seasonable GOODS,
' XX which they ate now opening for sale, on
'j reasonable terms. G& 37. —4»
Peale's Museum.
n ' I "HIS valuable repoficory of the works of Na
,f X. ture, so well calculated to delight the mind
if and wilarge the underftandmg, is opened daily, as
e usual. It Hands in an airy and healthy iituations
and free from the at present affliits
the city ; it may, therefore, be frequented with
;s the greatest fafety.
As an Ainufement, the study of Nature is the
mod rational and pleating : as. a Science, the fnoft
fubHme and Miflruetive. It elevates the n-jnd aud
expands the heart. They
" IVhsm Nature'; tvorh can charm, ivitb God Tjimfrlf
j, " Hold con-jerfe.'"
\- Many interfiling additiqns have lately been
t, made to this Miifeum : and the feathered tribe,
le containing a variety of the mod rare and beautiful
y.j fubjedls, is now very advantagtoufly arranged.
j e Waxen Figures, of Men large as lifi: (fomeofthem
cads from nature) are here dressed is their prcpei
habits, »nd placed in attitudes chara<Slericlic of their
refpeflive nations. Here may be seen tl.e North-
American Savage, and the Savage of South-AiJieri
t, ca—a laboring Ohinefe, and the Chinese
ie man—the sooty African, and the KamtfchaelaL—
Is, with fime Native? of the South Sea Islands. ihe
g immense variety and interesting diversity which
tliis Museum offers to the view, may be fee« but
aannotbe described with full efT«6l.
Price only l-4th of a d»llar.
Seyt. law
This Day Pubfifhed,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of
Second and Chefmit streets,
Price 3-Btbs of a Dollar >
Observations on certain Documents
Contained iv. No. V and VI of
" The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the charge or speculation against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the Treasury, it FULLY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN BT HI MS KIT.
This publication presents a eoncife statement
of the bale ;neans prasftifed b,y the Jacobins,of the
United States to afpei fe the charaiSlers of thofc
persons who are coniideredas hoftite to their diforw
ganizing schemes. It also contains the cor
refpohdence between Mr. Hamilton arid Messrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venable, on she fub
jtft of the documentsaforefaid, and a ftries of Tet
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the poUibility of a doubt,
that the connexion between him and Reynolds,
the result of a daring coafpiraay on the;part
of the Hitter and his aflbciatesto extort money.
A discount of one third from she retail price
will be made in favor pi wholefaie for
Cash. Orders to be aidreffed to Mr. YqunW.
AuvuH 25. . . ,•
Yellow Fever and Ppltil-ential
Diseases.
THIS DAYjIS PUBLISHEi) in ofte vol. ofUv**
By William Young, Booifelhr,
No. 32, Secondftreet, the corner of Chtfnut llreet,
(Price, in boards. 87 I I Cents J
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
A VIEW
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles established in th« element*
of Medicine, of (he late Mcbrated
JOHM BROWN.IM. d.
i With an attempt to correct some important er
• rors of that work, and cases in illnftration, chief
| ly felefted from the-records at
| the General Hospital at Calcutta,
1 Br William Cuas. Maclean,
To which i> fubjained, a si eatile on the a»?.ioH
of Mercury upon living bodies, Snd Sfs applica
tion for the core of di/tales of indireiSl debility/
Andadiflertation onthe sources of Epidemicand,
Peftilentialdifeafes; in which isat tempted toproye
"by a numerous induflion of fails, that they lie
,ver Arise from contagion, but arealw avs produ
ced by certain Tlates, or certain vicHitude« of
the atmo'fphere, by Charles Maclsan, of
Calcutta. i
nov. 21. - s>at J
FOR SALE, by
Joseph Anthony Sis Co.
No. j, Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Eourdeaux &ratidy, HI and 2d
proof, jaft landed
450 bales of Bourbon cotton «f afuperior quality
9 do. Surat, do do
A quantity of heavy black pepper in bales
Bourbon Indigo of the'firft quality
High proof Jamaica lpirits
Old London particular Madeira wine ( In pipes &
do. market do • ( qr. catks.
New England rum in hogsheads ■,
Genuine Holland Gin in pipes
Cliret in cases
Spermaceti candles andftrain'd oil
Bofton-hecf , . "
; Choicy barrels and half b»rreh
Do Herring In do do
' Best Ballon Mackarel in barrels Of the fall fare.
' New-England tow l'wyn
' A few tons of Russia cordage
1 Russia feather beds
Clover and Timothy feed in xjkt
' Long whale-bone
' -tflo 1, 2, and 3, Bollon flail duck
> A feiv chests firfl quality Hyfbii tea
) Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and
) An invoice of Dutch holjovr glass ware.
) November 8. dtw.
This day is Pyblifhed,
At theQfftce of the Aurora, No. 112, Market Street,
[Price or.e doTlar arid a half,]
A view of jhecondutt of the EXECUTfVEin the
FOR.EIGN AFFAIRS of the United Statss, connect
ed with the M'flion to the French Republic during
the years, 1794* 5, 6,
I By JAMES MONROE,
Late Minister Plenipotentiary to the said Republic
llluilrdted by hia INSTRUCTIONS arid COR
-1 RBfSPONDENCE and 01 her authentic documents.
A very liberal allowance to tho'fe who buy to fell
" again.
December 23. *6t,
f School Books and Stationary.
W. YOU NG,
No. ?2, Seaond-ftreet, corner of Chefnut-llreet,
TT AS now ready for sale, a very large affort
-1 1 ment of F.nglrfh, Frank, Latin and Greek
£ SCHOOL BOOKS. Also, Afthelementary books
j on Science, as are generally read in the academies
jj and colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY PUB LtSHEO,
' Sheridan's Dictionary, the filth edition, in one
large vol. 8 v«. price j dais.
0 Ditto, large 12 mo price idol, 75 tts.
Ditto, common, price I dol. 50 cts.
c All forts of drawing", packing, printing, and V
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Paftebdards,
;t fheatlung and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, ef
the bett quality, used fn the counting house, or
public office,
;r 0" Catalogues of a miscellaneous colleSion of
BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
[ by inquiring as aboye. Oft. 24. —3a-w6w
LAW BOOKS, "
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
i. H. &P. RICE, Booksellers,
n No. 16, South Second, and No. jo, Market ftrett,
_ ] T AVE )ull received by the late arrivals from
jLJL London and Dublin, their spring importa
tion, consisting of a variety of this latest and most
1- approved Law Books, which,addedtothofe alrea
d dy on hand,--formsthe moll exienfive collexftion ev»
«s er offered for fate in this country. They thei efore
is beg leave to notice, that trpm the nature of their
Is connediensin Dublin, tfiey are ehablci to felllriflj
h editions (as they have hitherto don?) at the very
lowest prices. The following are among* the lateit
ie publicatiens. .
1 Vefey, juii'rs Reports in Chancery, 1
d Peake's Cafss at Kill Prius ; Ridge-way's Rcfort*
in the time of Lord Hardwicka; Floyer's Prorders
■J/ Pradice fti the EccfefiafVical Courts ; Barton's
Treatise on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's PrajSice of
:n the Court of Kirk's Bench ill Personal Aflions, a
e, pjrfs complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
ul on Uses ; modern Reports, i» vols. London edi
d. tion.
m H. and P.Rics cxpe<2 te receive by thefirft ar
ei rival from New-Vark the 6th vol. complete of
:ir Durnford and East's Reports, the id part of Gil
h- bert'slAw of Evidence by Loft, anda number of
■«- new publications,
e- jutie z6.
Wanted, to Hire,
ch A I~>rge and convenient HOUSE, in or noar
ut C\. the centre of the city—for which a generous
rent will be given ; to be taken for a year, or on
more for a longer term. Inquire of the Printers
OA. 17, eotf