of tt>e States, and Philadelphia Daily AdberitUfi
Humbes 1668 j
Loft, or taken away by mistake,
on or a l -out the nth November !alt,from *-n board
the skip Commerce, Richard Waistcoat, master,
last from Liverpool, lying at Morris's wharf, Tec
ond above Draw bridge, one black leather Trunk,
coveted wi.h firaw matting and corded, makedat
bottom
A being a trunk of printed Calicoes. If any
S person can give information refpecjingfaid
P trunk, they will confer an obligation up-
V on the owner.
No. 6 JOSHUA SUTCLIFT,
No. 100, Spruce-street.
January to. 4t
W. Haydon,
Delineator of Drawing—-from London,
(Whrre he has studied several under one of
tha mofl eminent masters in t! at science)
INFORMS his friend", that he has re-commenc
ed his private tuition.-"-Terms, as usual, Six
Dollars per month, for attendance three times a
week. Likewise, all kinds of Ornamental Paint
ing, fruit, fiowers, &c. taught on the above terms.
W. H. flatters hrmfelf his terms will be particu
larly advantageous to- thife that employ him, as
he makes no additional charge if there are two
pur f in one family.
A ;ine dirc<Sed to W. H. left at the office of this
Osaette, will be immediately attended to.
January 9. siw
Just Published,
And to be had at the Book-stores of Me(Trs. Dob
son, Campbell, Young and Ormrod,
in Phik^elphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caufcs and Cure of Remitting or Billious
Fevers.
To IVbid: is annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and pra<sHce of
differenc amhors : and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interesting fa<fls and r flexions relative to
the Synochus Ifieroides, or Yellow Fever, which
has cccafioned To much diftrefsand mortality, at
different periods, in feveraldf the flaport towns
of the United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
Fellow of the Philadelphia College of Phyficrans,
and Member of the American Philosophical So
ciety, &c. *3llls
To be Sold,
The time of a Negro Man,
Who has three years to serve ; he is a good host
ler, or coachman, and with some attention would
make an excellent Cook. He is fold for no faults,
but for want of conftaut employ. The price for
histime, to prevent needlefsenquiries, is £.30.
Enquire at No. £8 Spruce-ftieet.
At said place may be had a few tons of choice
firft crop Hay.
ift month 9th. 3t
TO BE LET,
And poiellion given the ift fanuary,
The House No. 107, Arch-street,
N«ar the corner of Third Street.—For further
particulars, enquire as above, or at No. 83, Vine
Street.
December 17 dtf
All Persons
Having any demands aga-nft the Estate of the
lattf George Irwin,
bring in tbeir accounfs" fH Opfrly attested, on or
before the firft day of January next ensuing
and thore who ire indebted to said estate are so
Jicited to make immediate payment to
SARAH IRWIN, Administratrix.
Nov. zq 1797- 6
James C. iff Samuel W. Fisher,
. AT THEIR STORE,
N0.£13, corner of Arch and Front streets,
HAFE FOR SALE)
Cotton and worfled Hosiery in trunks, afTortcd
A few bales red, white, and yellow flannels
Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Pullicat silk ditto
Ditto Poudicherry and Madrafs dkto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black TalFctks
4000 pieces hjanksens, and
Few chests best Hyson Tea
Alfo —1500 boxes bed London Window Glass,
from 8 by 6, to 19 by 14 —and 15 hhds. Gfefs
Ware, aflorted, \yhich they wiil dispose of cheaper
than any in the city.
novemher aB. 3awtf
NOW LANDING,
At South-street Wharf,
7he Cargo of the Ship Concord,
Captain Thompson, from Batavia.
About 300 tons firft qualify Java Coffee (the
whole having been felefted)
80 tons Java Sugar, in caniflers and bags
■to legures of old Arrack
Nutmegs, Mace and Cloves
FOR SALE fir
PETER BLIGHT.
Who also offers For Sale,
Just landed from Ihip Amity, from Jamaica,
sos hhdt. Jamaica and
170 do. do. Rum.
November 43. d6w
A person well acquainted with
thstheory and praiticeof book-keeping, whohasbeen
manyyearseugaged inbufinefslorhimfelf andothcrs,
would be glad to be employed, either as-an agent
I »r fa6tor j or in porting books ; Rating unsettled
accounts ; or in sxecuting any other kind of writ
ing, in French or EngliSi.
A note addressed to J. A. and left at this office,
will be punctually attended to.
November 30. tawtf
House and Lots, in Bordentown.
TO BE SOLD, a handsome two story House.
with the Lot on which it is ere&cd, situated
about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
pillage of BordehtoWc. The heufe is forty two
>fbet front, anj in neat order The lot contains
one acre, and is one hundred feet on the main
ilreet, and extends with the fame breadth tobaek
street. Also, a large Lot, containing nearly four
acres, Separated from the former by buck street.
One third only of the purchase money will he re
quired upon executing a deed, and for the re
mainder, such credit will be given as the purchase
.ermaychufe. This property will be fold free •-
all incumbrances, and an indisputable title I
For farther particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Barnes, refidiug in Uordentown, near,
the premifee, who will (hew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, no. 144, Market-street.
©ecember 2. lawtf
" FOR SALE, L ~ r
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Including Long Primer, about 400 weight, in
good condition, and would answer the purpose of
a country printer as well as new.
Enquire of the printer. Nov. 30.
PHILADE LPH 1A • SATURDAY EVENING, JAhUART 13, 1798.
For Savannah,
TO SAIL THE FIRST OPENING,
The faft failing {hip
I SWIFTPAGKET >
Patrick Grirbin 1 , Master,
lying tbe firft wharf below
kj lr (jet Street—has handforie ac
commodations for paflengers—For freight or pas
sage »pply to the Master on board, or to
N. Ist J. Frazer,,
No. 95, South Front Street.
Who have on hand, and for Sale,
Prime Rice, in whele and Half tierces, Georgia
and Carolina Indigo, MolafTes in hhdt, Teneriffe
wine, &c. &c
December n 3tawtf.
v. Wanted to Charter,
r*—v A Britifti vcffrl, fifteen hundred
to t\»o thousand five hundred bar-
Peter Blight,
WHO HAS FOR SALF,
Choice Red Port Wine in pipes and hogfte*
and old London Particular Madeira, fit ior imme
diate ttfe, in pipes.
December so §iw
f or Charleston,
i THE SHI*
VENUS,
i r -wharf of Mejfrs. Perotts
v CHE will fake Freight on very
*. O low terms, and tail the fcrft .
opening. Apply to the master on board, or to
Jos. Anthony Co.
Detember 18 §
For Amsterdam,
f J T r me r,
Juhn M'Coilom, Master;
WFL.L fail in. a few , days, the
>! '^* c "u»**sSe=sSgrelter part of her cargo being
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or pas
sage, apply to the master on board, at Walnut
ftreet wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is EUndiiig, out of the said Ship, from Boar
deaiix, and For Sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter calks
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fontiniac, }
Sauteme, > Wines in cases
Lunille, )
Prunes in boxes
november 24.
For Londonderry,
- THE BRIGANTINE
ILLIAM Whitten, Master.
s£x~gSS3£%%;? - A strong good vessel, about \yvo
hundred tons, to fail with all convenient speed, a
great part of her cargo engaged—now lying at
faee, apply to the captain, or
JOHN SKYRIN,
LantUnbcrger's -wharf.
Who wants to Charter.
A Vessel of about three hundred tons.
NOV 1 8. §
For Sale or Charter,'
J2|§L GOOD. HOPE,
Will carry abwut iaot) barrels, and
* 8 to ta^e * n a car g°- For terms
Hrf r»i* 1 Hit apply to
Pragers Iff Co.
Nb. 151., South Secend-ftreet.
have forfale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Lisbon, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7. dtf.
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
fiJZWfojT Sally Butler,
Captain Chisholm,
A new veflelj with excellent
accommodations for paffengcrs—
Sails on the 10th of December. For Freight or
Passage, apply to ROSS W SIMSON.
Who have to difptfe of \
A small invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
November 18. §
To be fold,
An ELEGANT COUNTRY SHAT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 with a neat two
story brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. situate on the Irilh traift lane, in the
townlhip of Moyameufing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for taste ami
elegance, Hand unrivalled.
December I. dtf
The Subscriber intends to make
application for the renewal of a Certificate of a Share
in thfc Bank-oTthe United States, (landing in the name
of A. B. No. 500 dated July it, 1797, the fame
having Io'L JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. i* s6w
ROSS Iff SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Goffas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in tags and boxes
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and Bengal J
300 calks RICE, tnd
A parcel of ship building RED CEDAR.
D(hi 27. J
Chocolate and Mustard,
of a superior quality manufactured,
GINGER and Pepper, ground ; shelled or
pearl Barley; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
Ale and Qyder ; Taunton and Burton Ale ;
London Porter ; red. Port and Lisbon Wine,
fukable for exportation or home consumption.
The higliefl piice given for Muftard-Seej.
AlJ'o forfale, A quantity of Bocking and
common Baizes, a variety of colors; a bale of
Pultuns, Shawls, &c. for sale bv
JOHN HA WORTH,
No. 98, south Front-ftrcef,
nov. !■}. m.&th.t.iJ.
By John Fenno, N' 'Cbefnut Street
Nickl;n & Griffith,
At their Store on Walr.tit StrettWbarf—
HAVE FOR SALS,
5? hhds. of Jama/ca Rum
Wine in pipes and hhds.
TenerifTe do. in pipes
Old Port do. in hhds.
Imperial Tea in quarters and eighths of chests
Sail Canvaft, No. i, to 8
Dimities, Ginghams. ar,d ML'lTinets, in packa
ges fuitabli for the Weft India market
Nails afT'irted * .
Black quart bottles
Qiieens ware in hhds. and crates
Yellow ecbre dry in caiks {
And at New-York, onboard th^
Ihip Di an A, from Liverpool,*xp«se<l j
as foou as the navigation is open,
Fine Liverpool Salt
Coals
Spanift Brown "J
Venetian Red |
KS" f ,
White lead
Red lead
Colcothar vitriol
160 bundles Sheathing pjptr ,
Seaming tw ; ne
Ship Di.ina,
For Sale o^Charter.
a 1 s o{
N. 3. The late firm of PhilipNJcklin & Co.,
1 i's now chanced to ''
NICKLIN GRIFFITH.
January t. eodtf
Philapelphia & Lancalter Turn
.. pike Company^
JaVu.try 4, 1798,
At a meeting tsf the President end ifianugers,
this day, fl dividend»/ 5 dollart ptr Jhare <was ,
deelar'd for thelaji half year, :i<Meb wit/ be by
them retained, fur the payment of the debts Jf
the Company, agreeable toa refoLttion sftbeStoct
holders the nth June la/I.
TENCH FRANCISi Tteafurer
Ofthe Philadelphia Isf Lanc»Jlei\TurupikeCom'py.
January 8 mfSfw*iu
Rin away the 25th of Decem
ber, 1797, a Negro Man, about J feet 5 or 6 inch
es high, of a yellow complexion J when spoke to
and called by his name he has a quick (harp look
out of his eyas and (hews the white of them v»:ry
much ; taken all his eloathes with him, wl|ich
ate, a new.kersey great coat, a grey broad cloth
and close bodied coat, a ftripeef vest, canlaeen
.breeches, ftlk flockings and ruffl«d shirts, and a
number of, other eloaths. The fa. '. Negro uni er
llaads farming, and is a food !hotm»ker and Car
penter ; he can rea4 and write telerably well-.—lt
is likely he may forge a pas*. Whoever takes up
said negro and secures him, so tha: I get hijjf-i udl
Mid
land, lieut coonty.
N. B. The above Negro i« 19 years eld.
January i 6t
THE AMERICAN LADIES'
POCKET-BOOK, for 1793.
JUST PUBLISHED
By WILLIAM Y. BIRCH,
No. 17, south feeond-ftreet—containing
AN elegaatFiontifpieceofthe Marquis de la Fay
ette, and his Family, in the callle of
with an illustration ; being ?.n account of the pri/icfl
pal events in the public hie of the Marquis, witn i>
sketch of the fufferings of himfelf and his unfortunate
family. A complete Almanack—lo4 ruled, piges
for memorandums, observations, -See. alfo,tor account \
of monie # paid and received for every day in the year
—a marketing and oiher ufeful tables—general meet
ings of friends —Lift of births, dca.hs, &c —new
country dances, poelry, songs, enigmas, &c. See,
ALSO,
, The Gentleman's annual Pocket Remembrancer,
for 1798—containing an Almanack ; 104 ruleJ pages
for memorandums and cath account ; Duties payable
on goods imported into the United States, Custom- 1
oufc fees, &c; stamp duties, to take place after the
3 iftDec< mber;a lift of the poll towns aud cross-roads
in the United 3tates ; avarie.'y of ufeful tables, and
"Other iaterefting matter.
W. Y. BIRCH, conllantly keeps for sale, a geneia!
afTortmentof Merchant's account Rooks, and other
ftat onary goods, and makes to order books of any
size ,and ruled to any pattern. <
Elegant Maps, on Rollers, and a large Chart of the I
Weft-Indies. ]
Hair and leather Trunks —Playing Cards, English
and American. Dec. 27 —* 3t.
Imported in the brig Eliza,
Capt. Hastie, from Bourdeaux ;
Claret in Cases of a very superior quality, '
White Sauterne Wit:e in Cases,
Olive Oil in baftets of n bottles each, 1
White and coloured Kid Gloves,
do. do. Silk do.
A few pipes of Bourdeaux Brandy,
For Sale by
JAMES I ATIMER, jun. ,
7 r, South Wharves.
Who has also for Sale,
A few qr. Calks Old Sherry Wine.
Dec. >)2w
The Sublcriber, 1
Informs those to whom he is indebted, that his
books, which have been kept open for their infpec
tionfince December 1796 to the 31ft
ult. and will during the present month remain 1
open at his Counting-house in Chefnut Street for
their further investigation and fcrut ; ny.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
Philadelphia, J;in. ill 1795.
Canal Lottery—No. 11. i
WILL commence drawing Monday, thezoth
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at <
Seven Dollars, at Wm, BLACICBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Olßce, No. 64, South Second-ilreet—
Tickets in the Schuyikiß Bridge Lottery, at Ten *
Dollars y where check books are kept lor register-
ing examining in the City of Walhing
ton, No. 11. and Paterfon Lotteries, and infomta- .
tion where tickets may be ha 4 in most of the Lotte
ries authorised My law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The buGnefs of aEaor.ER, i? buying and a
filing all kinds of Public Stotk and Securities, ;
dilrountb-g Bills and Notes of liand, fi*lc of <
Lands, Houses, &<:. &c, will l»c duly to, I
by Wm. BL^CKBfcJRN.
nove/fiier 15. •§
To Be Sold,
AGHjEEAELY to the lad will ami trftiment of
Willim HtrsuAU, decrafed, and poff f
fion given immerliaxly, a valuable property in Arch
ftrtet, between Ti;ird and Fourth tt.eets, confitl
ing us thehaufe, No. 107, with the lot on which
it is eredled, a and ether improvements
The honfe is to feet front, and contains ten good
apartments. The lot is of the fame breadth as the
houfc and deep, with a wellof water and
a very capac rus walled ciftrrn, both with pumps
in goop The stable (lands on the rear of
the lot and "till accommodate four horta and a car
riage. Thli. property enjoys the perpetual privilege
of a 26 court aßdan alley, 8 feet wide, extend
ing to Chsfry Street. It" central position and the
advantage it pcfleffes with refpeft to free vcntila
! tion, renders it well, worthy the attention of any
perfen vi :h:ng to poilefi au eligible property in Phi
ladelphia,
For further particulars enquire at No 82, Vine
Street—of
R'C»£*T HtYSHAM,
' or , >Afling Executors.
Fa amcis Bowis Saym, 3
January It §
JuJi received a Frejh Supply.
EnglWh Grammar,
The second edition, with improvements,
ADAPTED to the different classes of leafiKr.;
with an appendix, containing rules and ob
fervatioKs for the advanced students
to write with ferfpicuity and accuracy,
By J.INDLEY MURRAY.
c< This is J publication of much mem, and fully
answers th /profeliions in the Title. Iheapptn
dix iome of the b«H rute* for writing e
legaqtly,/md witty that we recolle<st to
/ Monthly Review, July 1796.
" Tfcis Grammar is, on many accounts entitled
to commendatory notice, its materials have been
carefully and judiciously feletfed 4 its arjangemeot
is di|ftir»Ct and well adapttd to the purpose ot in
fraction and it> expreflioß is Ample, pcrfpicuoua
and accurate, SlcC
See the charaßer at large in the Analytical
Review, July 1796
English Exercises,
Adapted to the Grammar lately puhlifhed by
Lindley Murray, consisting of exemplification of
the parte of #b(ech, inftancesof falfe orthography,
violations of thie rules of fynrax, defeds in punc
tuation, and violations of the rules refpe&ing
perspicuity and accuracy, deCgned far the benefit
of private learners, as well as for theufe of fchook
" W« have been much pleased with the
of these Exercises. They occ»py with diftinguiik
cd excellence a mod important place in the fcicncc
of the EngUfh langu-age; and as such, we can
warmly recoihmend them to the Teachers of
Schools, as well as to all those who are desirous of
attaining correelnefs and precision in their native
tongue."
Monthly Review, J»!j 1797.
The above Books are for sale at Joskth & James
Crukshank.s book store, No. 87, Market ftrect.
January ("ft 3tawiw.
. Nrna^E-l-CL-l?
ALL ptrfons who have any demands agaiiiTF
thi efhte of Willam Fleewtood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merehant, de
ccafed, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly aitefied ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, to
GEO. DOBSON, ) ...
No. aj, So. Third-flreet. \ r.
January 4. dif
. 5 41. E,
By JOHN MILLER, jun. Co.
No 8, Chilnut-ftreet,
One hundred and eighty bales
BENGAL GOODS,
• Amongst which are,
Onrrahs Mahioodies
Ea'tas Sannas
Gw/.z nahs Tainfa Coffaes
Gn2zi»-s jEirtertics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palampoora Romall Wandkei chiefs
Amongll them are a great prfoportion of the
manufactures of Patna.
December I. §
Employment for the Poor.
FLAX TOR SPINNING,
To he out every second, fourth, and sixth
day morning, between the hours of 10 and 12—
back of nn-ja, south Fifth street, ahove Spruce
ftrcet. eodaw
Prison Manufactory.
FOR SALE,
At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of allfizes, from 3dy to aody
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, fsddle and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakeis and Sailers Thread *
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and head ltqnes, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms, slabs, tacia, window heats, litis, c .
All which may he had on reafonablg terms.
Shoes made and~VVcaving done at said Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders from a diilance, direSed to Daniel Tho
mas, agent for the prison, will be attended to.
December i 6 mth6m
Imported in thefhip Man Chester,
Benjamin Shewell, Mailer,
From Bourdeaux, and for sale by the fubferiber,
No. ii Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy "J
Iri'fh market.claret in cases ( Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. i" Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatreyd>
W«0 HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter casks
Rota do. do-
Pimento in bags
4000 bushels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
TO LET,
A front Parlour, suitable for
an Office ; a Room, turnifbedor unfurnifhad ; and
a large Cellar, which will fcrve either for
or a houiing cellar. Enquire at |no. 14, South
Fifth-flreet.
Boarding and Lording to 1 e had- F.iiquire a»a
ove. J*n 6. *jt
War-Qffice of the United States,
J canary the lji, 1798.
WHEREAS frauds have been jjra&iloJ, in
obtaining Warranu for Bounty Lands, due
to the Oftitir» and Soldiers of the late Continental
Army, by the produ&ion of forged i«flrumt»ts,
To check in future such impoGtipns, it has been
thought advifeable ; that all persons, having claims
for bounty land", whether in their own rijjht, as
legal rcprefentative, or by virtue of any instrument
or deed of transfer, be required to forward their
refpe&ive claims to the War Oific*, on or .before
the firft day of January 1799 in order that such
claims may be duly examined, adjusted and deter*
mined upon.
To fubdantiate foch claims, a striA ibfervance of
the rules heretofore ifllied frcra the War Office will
be indispensable ; and in addition to what is requir
ed by the laid rules, the certificate of the vknow
ledgement of a Deed or Power of Attorney, mult
also set forth the place of residence and occupation
of the claimant or person making ftich acknowledg
ment ; and when the pioof of perluoal knowledge
is by a witnfcf" or witnefle*, their place or places of
residence muftbe set iorth in like manner-
JAMES M'HENRY, Sec'y of War.
Jan. 7. d6w
~ B A L L.
Mr. FrancU refpe&fully informs his scholars, and
the public in general, that: hi* second pradtifing
Ball wijlbeon i hurfday the utl* at the new Al
fembly Room South Fourth Street, Chefciut
and Walrat Stjrt et— Ladies Ticket* to be had by ap
plying t* the fchc/iars °f Ftancis or at hut
house No. 7 <p North Eighth Street, —Ger.tlemcn'a
tickets one dollar each, to be had of Mr. Francis,
at the Academy, or at hb houfc.
Mr. Frarcjs liftewLfe informs theSubfcriJer to the
Select Ball', that the next will be oh Tuesday the
16th—1 hdfe f'ubferibers who have not yet received
their tickets are rcqutftcd to apply for tluin as a
bov -.
Mr- Francis continues to take Scholars as usual,
Jan. 7. d 4 t
The owners of the Brigantine
Mercury, Wi'.liara Urot\, mailer, capturedby
a Spanitb privateer and fold at Ceuta in last De
cember, may receive interesting information fef.
peiling he'r, by applying to the Department of
State.
*: * The Printers in the sea-port towns of
the United States will render & fervicc to th«
concerned, by inserting th* above in tbeir news«
papers. ' Jan j.
For bale by the Subscriber,
10 bales Coffaa
40 dp. Baftas
11 do. Mamoody
17 do. Chintz
7 do. Tookery
i do. Gorahs
a J do. Meragungess
3 do. Check Stripes
1 do. Guzzie
I box niapers
7 do. Umbrellas
IJ" pipes fined particular Madeira Wine, of
the vintage I7jj.
; MORDECAI LEWIS.
Pcccpiher 5. -jaw 4 w
JW"PIHYnP Hvfon 'JfJa
A few chests ot excellent quality, For Sale, cor
ner of Second and Fin« streets.
December a 6. eot f
French Circ -dating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. 110 Walnut-ftrect,
TNFORMS those who wi(h to recur to the only
A means of becoming pcrfefi in the French Lan*
puage, that he has just opened his Libka«y, con,
fitting of upwards of 1250 volumes, the best cal.
culattd to aiford, either uftful inflrudlion, or plea.
£u r re ; conditions, together with 4 catalogue
of the Lib* ry, may be seen at every book-feller'a
in town.
n. a. All translations from and into the French
Etglilh and Spacifli Languages, executes with ac
curac) and cffipatch. eoim nov ,
FOR sale;
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. 55, the cornr* of Chefnut and Front streets,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches, Also, a general aflortment of Tools
Eiles and Materials, coafifting of Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hour brass pinions
and forge work; Bells, clock a H d watch Dials
Springs, Hands, GlalTes, Punice Stone, Emery'
Koasn Stone, Cat Gut; bench, fland and tail
Vices; Turns, Pliers,Chains,Seals,Key., &c. &c,
*** Apprentices Wanted.
novembcr 3. f<r t utf
Landing this day,
From on boar-d th« schooner Two Friends, Dan
iel Crawley, Matter,
80 hhds. and ; T • titt* r
i-2 pipe. J Jamaica RUM,
for sale by
George Latimer & Son.
uci'eniher 9.
FOR SALETTE
Wm. Young's Book Store,
No, 51, Second fireet, the corner of Oi-fnut street,
P EPORT of the Committee of the House of
IV Repr«fentative« of the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
against WfLLIIM BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeached of high crimes and mil,
demeanors, mad«„in pursuance of a resolution of
the Houfa of Representatives, authorising the fa'd
Committee to fit during the recess ofCcngrefs, an 4
inltrucling them " to enquire, and," by all lawful
" m r ea " 5 ' t " d,fc, ' ve '- the whole nature and extent
" of the ofTence whereof the (aid William R! oun t
" (lands impeache J, and who are the .sarties and
" auociates therei/i."
Printed by order of the House ofßepreftntatin es.
December 20 j
NOTICE. "
To Utters of JAMES GREEN LEAP s
and ED ft D FQX's Engagements
TN consequence of many having been prevent
led, from late unavoidable circumflancrsfrom
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable tfffomitr
notice. The Truflees now inform them, tliey
are ready to issue the fame to tliofe who may an'
ply w:thm fixtydays, at No. 8 Chefnut .Stree,.
ancfthofe who do not, will be confiOcrcd as ,
linqu:(hing their claim on the Aggregate Fui.d
provided for their payment.
HENRY PRATT,
THCMAS W. FRANCIS.
JOHN MfLLER, JLN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER.
December 15. d6ct
[Volume XIII..C- O 'jV I £ * .&
HOITBE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
«
THU*SBAY JAKUAfcY It.
( CatUiuuilion of the Debate m rtoMttiig fur
ther approprialttus for the Frigala.)
Mr. Livingfton said, he was one of those
who had constantly voted for such a navy,
as he thought the proteftion ef the com
mercc of the country required, the nati
on coni'l afford; tut the continual difap
pomtment which he had experienced on this
score, end the excefiivc expenee which had
Aeeti incurred, had considerably lessened his
zeal. The question was, whether the com
mittee would, iww make an appropriation on
account, or wait until they reeeived an esti
mate from the proper department, and be
lieving, as he did, that the balance of the
last appropriation risv in hand, was fuffici
ent for any immediate demand, he should be
in favour of the committee's rising. Indeed
he believed the fatility with which the house
had gone into appropriations of this kind,
had .encouraged tb? lavish expenditure of the
money ; and, after the committee (hall have
risen, if no other member did it, he should
propose the appointment of a committee to
enqufre into the expenditure money
which had beta.appropriated objeft.
How the mopeyhad beeo appropriated was
a secret to that house, but it was a secret
which oerght ro be laid open. Great oblo
quy had been tfrrown upon the persons thro'
whose this money had paTTed ; if they
were not defervingof it, tbe obloquy ought
to be removed ; if it were deserved, it ought
to be fixed. He believed, if it were seen
that this money would not be appropriated,
until th&eftimate in qtieftion was reCeived>
the house woiili{t not be lopg without if.
Mr. to hear the
last up, speak of the facility with which ra »ney had
b:en vr>t«d for tb%
wljo Had beeri wiuKfla* to the manner i.i which the
appropriation* for this objeft had be«n made, would
not fay they bscn r w&h sac# r uy. He had
only been present arorfeot these qiieftio/is, but he
knew of no qucftton which had been treated as th-»
Jv»d. A *6te passed ibe ather without de
,bi e, on account of tfccmiltury
rite with the house, inprelercnce to thenavpl eftablfh
mcnt, he could ndr tell Facility in granting ihit
money might, upon the peiitjtman*! do£lnne, bean
• inducement to-unnect ffary expenlc in tjß.c military
ettsbltfhrhent. Indeed, ih order to prevent a lavish
fxpenfc of money, ir would be ntcefFary to go into a
uarrr> Jpftate
carr>e tefor clonic. Mr. S. bebeved this appro- I
priaam ft'iod 'inrn 'he fame ground with that fifth©
militarv eTtwbiiftunent. The Sccictaiy of the Trea-
had commanded bntfi, biit had given no efti
m»te (or either ;
ekiamte be#*<»« tbey td the appfdprtatioh in
Did ge-nueaieifc mean to 6'y, that sf the
ro<>ufjy-, J)«*l not been expended agreeably to theif
wiihes that (He UftUe;l S«aUs we*e to lose all the mo
ney hitlvwMXNpcndfd upon the they
■•were to be tb'owaaway, or bu nt ? if their argu
ment mea<tt any tUing» U nxaant thart. He would
take t for granted, that, upon an examination of the
accounts, the money had h*en impioperly expended
thai tbe officers h*3 d**' l unfairly—thft the mo
rtev h*d been thro *n into the fca ( s the gentleman
Irom Virginia was pleated to suppose) he cid not
fuppoie, that even in this cafe, gert-lcmcn would w.ilh
all that had been expended'to be thrown away. Gen
were not J
made, rflight not government fujfer yery confiderablt
lofsby the worlt lliH, from a refusal of the
workmertlo labour wilho'it pay ? But, if the money
were jpp»opriiled, it wguld rrmain in the trealury if
it were not wanted, therefore no injury could arise to
the United Statesfton the appropria ion; but carifi
dcrable lofj raiflht be fnfta iied by the want of mo"cy
to carry on the wo Ik. Mr. S concluded try faying
be considered a nav»f Homimt as necessary to the
digni'v and najrorul charter <.f :be United States
He wifbed, theicfore, thatevery neetffary appropria
tion should be made, at the lame time Chat an enqui
ry fhoulil be inttituted iuto tbe pall expenditure. It'
wa» hiui Itow so much meney could
have bun .xpended IB thi»t>ufinefs, and fo many
«rior> could nave been made in <he ettimaiea which
had from time 10 timabeen made, but, when it was
considered th»i the buffneU of building armed veflela
of lhi*kind was whslly new to us, and that, the pri
ce! of the various articles made life 'of, had greatly
augmented, u was not so strange that mitlakes had oc
curred. But whaiever these li«ve been, or
whatever blanje tniv have teen ircurred. as it was
still necefTaeylb r impleie-I'i» /wW, hetruited the ap.
propriauon be agreed t)^,
Mi - Nicholas said, gentlemen seemed to
take it for gianted, tlmt the wlie
the frigates should be finifhtd, was before
the committee. For the fake of the frigates
he thought they ought not so to eonfidcr it.
If the committee were fatisfied, from expe
rience, that this bufinefß had been carried on ■
at an enormous experice, was it not necessa
ry to look into the bufuiefs .' Were Con
gress to support tbe dignity of the country
by gJviug away the j»ebple's money—not
perhaps for their use, but for some other
purpose. E-vfry man nuill be aftoniHied at
the expenee, which had been incurred, and 1
was it rot proper to enqnire how this had •
happened ? Gentlercltn fay, if # the money
were not wanted, it would fie in the Treasu
ry, and no difadvgntage would be fuftaihed.
But this was as much a« to fay, that every
thing should be giveu which was asked for '
by any of the departments. If
all concuring in the fame objeft of finifhing
the frigates, the mode proposed would be
fhnrteft. 0 '
The gentleman from New-York was right
v.4ien lit fail! the money for this objeft had
been granted with facility ; for though there
had teen a cunteft about the ufefulnef* of
thtefrigates, there had been none about the
estimates thimfelves. If the house had been
toUJ, last winter that 600,000 dollars had
been wauting to complete the frigatei, in-
Aead of 200,000, he believed it would have
aftonilhed every one, and an enquiry would
have beeti instituted into this business ; but
this had not been3one, the house had been
drawn on frbttr time to time, and from time
to time deceived in the business ; for all that
had btcrt said about inexperience, high prietv
of "articles, kc. had no weight. Mr. N-.
concluded by declaring be was not aftiug at
an encmyiof tbe Frigates, but as a Friend
fifth Pullic. whose money, in this instance,
had been ftjuandered beyond all example,.
Mr. Rutledge (aid, tlie leafon given by
Gentlemeu for postponing this bulinefs
that tbe appropriation already tmi<fe had
been enormous : but he would ask them ore
queftion—Jjnppofe the m<juey UerLtofort ?p
propriated had been mifpent, would tlieyN
now refufmtq appropriate a furiher sum ?
AH thit w?.s wanted, be f<i"jl> to complete
the frigates, teis 36,000 doliars, and only
Zo,oo3\vere tlow asked for. But gentle
men fay no, we will iirll iiiftitute an encjiii
ry into .the expenditure of the m<>ney alrea
dy appropriiterl He had no objeftion to
this enquiry, bu\ he would in the wean time"
appropriate the Aioney.
Mr. J. Williams replied to the enquiry
of the gentleman jiift fat down, that though
pad sums had been he would eon
fent to appropriate mrtfe, but not to be spent
in tie fame ivoy. Mr. YV. went over the va
rious sums which had been from time*t» time
called for, and concludei,by faying that he
would not co:rfent to vote for more, until he
saw how' what had been appropriated }iad
been expended, or except he knew thebu
• (1 <n-fs vras at a stand for want vf money.
Mr. Sewall K-ad the letter of the Secre
tary of the Treafnry, wherein he fays an
appropriation on account of Naval de
partment will be neccflary.
Mr. Gallatin said, when lie was up be*
fore, he had stated that it had never been
the praftice of the House to grant money
unless an estimate was laid before them to
(hew that it was necefTary. This had been*
called a quibble by one gentleman, and ano
ther had quoted an instance wherein the house
had a&ed differently. But the gentleman
from "Massachusetts (Mr. Sewall) was mil-'
taken in this refpeft. It was true that the
Secretary of the Treasury did ask for an
appropriation for the defipiences in the Mil
itary establishment ; but it was not true that
the house granted them. The house had
agreed to an appropriation.' For what ?■—
For the deficiences ? No. They hare a
greed for an appropriation towards the ex
pencesfor 1798,*f0r which they have efti
matcs before them. Until the Secretary of
the Treasury laid an eftimatc before the
house, except the nseefiity was very urgent
indeed (which he did not believe •« the pre
sent cafe it was) he fliould d«cline any ap
propiiatioo. As an individual, he was rea
dy to acknowledge, he was against btvilding
the frigate* ; but did gentlemen suppose
that he was weak enough to believe that
by making an opposition to a partial appro
priation, he could defeat the objeft, against
a large majority of the house? No. H<*
believed theie would be a very confiderablt
majority ready to vote for any sum which
might be wanted for the frigates, though
he might vote differently. But he thought
there was another objeft worth contending
for, which was, not to vote money because
a department calls for it, however much
that officer may be entitled to the confidence
of the house. If this practice were gone in
to, it would create endhrfs roifchief. Mr.G.
said, the different conclusions which gentle
men had drawn on the fubjeft, were fuffici-.
ent to (hew that the committee were not pre
pared to come to a vote on the fubjeft, as
one declared that 130,000 dol
lars were wanting to complete the frigates,
and another infilled that only were
necessary ! F or his part be did not know,
hut fauaJwk-»*■»* n r {, l c ~
■ ~ r *<*xrrai-l, that any money at all was want
ing for that purpose. When the eftimatfe
was laid before the house, he should not ob
jeft to a partial appropriation before the en
quiry was gone into; but at present he
eould not consent to it.
Mr. Harper said, as several gentlemen,
had expressed their intentipn of voting
for this appropriation, when the eftiroates
should be laid before the though n«w
.they objefted to it, and as jio great inconve
nience, he trusted, would arise from the de
lay of three or four days, he wotfftl jgin in
voting for the committee to rife
Mr. Sewall produced a ftatiemeut of the
Secretary of lately made to the house,
wherein he states that there is a deficiency of
35,000 dollars.for the completion of the fri
gates. He thought this fufficient ground
for the appropriation, and regretted' that
the gentleman from S. Carolina had conclude,
ed to vote f<yflthe committee's riling. Mr.
S. referred to,what had fallen from Mr.'G.
and said the oaly difference between the
two eafe6 of naval and military eftablifkment
was, that we did not build frigates by the
year.
Mr. Pinckney said, if he thought voting
for this appropriation, would preclude an
enquiry into past expenditures, and by that
means to put the business upon a better foot
ing in future, he should by no means vote
f»r it. But he did not believe tl*is.' How
'cver, if gentlemen wished the business to lie"
over for two or three days, he had no ob
jfftion ; but if it were their intention to
postpone an appropriation nntil an eaquiry
into former expenees was gone into, he
should have serious objeftions to it. It had
been admitted on all hands that the frigates
had been an expensive business ; but a fur
ther delay would make them more so. He
thought the Treasury might be fafely trust
ed with this money, and the enquiry could
in the mean time, be going on.
The question for the committee to rife,
was jjut and carried 45 to 35.
A message was received from the Senate,
informing the Jhoufe, that they had passed
the bills for the relief of the representatives
of William Carmichael, for the partial ap
propriations for the year'l79B, for autho
ring the pa ment of a fnm of money to the
daughters of the late Count de GrafTe, and
for the payment ofiitereft on a certificate
due to General Kolciufkia—the latter with
an amendment. '
Mr. Cochran proposed the following re
falutiou :
" Resolved, that the committee' oFVom.
merce and manufaftures be direfted to en
quire into the propriety of allowing 4 draw,
back on g<?od< exported to the Britifc pro
vinces in Canada by way of the Lakes, and
tepftft, tktir'opinion thereon." Autf Mr.
I.ivingfton proposed the following . •
Resolved, that a committee be appoint
ed to enquire into the expenditure of the mo
nies heretofore appropriated for the Naval
• ■ 1. I
Armament, acd report the.r opinion there- I
on to tke lio#fe."
Both were ordered to lie on the table. (
Adjourned. |
FRIDAY—JANUARY 12. j
Mr. Bayard presented fevers! oiiur peti- '
tioos from the- state of Delaware, against .
; changing ' the of holding the courts, 1
i which were refered to tnc fame committee
to which was refered the message from the •
President op this fubjeft. . .
Mr. Cocliran called up the resolution '
which he lard yeftcrday upon the table for, j
direCting the committee of commerce and :
manufaftures toenqufre into the expediency
of allowing a drawback on goods exported
to Canada by way of the Lakes, which Was
agreed to and a committee appointed.
Mr. Gregg asked leave of absence for
his colleague Mr. Hartley for ten days, that
crentleman having received information after
tHe house rose on Friday l ift, which called
him home.
This leave was granted ; but not with
out some general obfervatioas from Messrs.
Thatcher and J. Williams on the impropri
ety of the pr?ftice of asking leave in this
manner, after gentlemen had been absent
several days from their duty, which was an
evasion of the rule of the house, " that no
%iembcr frail absent himfelf from the duties
of the hwff, without leave," and which
pivlonged the absence of gentlemen beyond
the leave obtained.
Mr- Cochrap alked aod obtained leave of
absence for a week.
MV. Macon, from the committee of re
vifal and unfinifhed business, moved that
that pjrt of t which related to the
i expiring of an aft declaring the concurrence
of Conjrrefs to the appointment of an health
officer by the state of Maryland, be referred
to the committee of commerce and manu
faftures.
Mr. Harrifon presented a petition from
a number of citizens and freeholders of the
counties of Southampton, Sussex and Prince
George, in Virginia, praying a repeal of
the stamp :ift, and for certain alterations in
the law laying a duty on spirits and on stills.
Mr. H. observed that as the house had
anticipated the wishes of his constituents,
in relation to the spirit tax, by the bill
which had lately pafftd, there would be an
impropriety iii referring that part of the pe
tition ; but so much of it as related to the
ftann p aft, he moved to refer to the commit--
tee ot ways and means.—Agreed.
Mr. Cloptom, from the committee of en
rolment, repdrted the following bills as du
ly enrolled, viz. the bill for the relief of the
r« prefer, tat ives of William Carmiehael; that
for making partial appropriations for the
fcrvice of and that authorizing the
of certain sums of money to the
daughters.of the late count de Graffe.
The bill irefting the secretary of war to
plj.ce certain persons on the pension lift,
was read the third time and passed.
Mr. Evansfaid, that the attorney-gener
al was put to very great expence in paying
thji postage. of packets and letters which
ty ( i his had been particularly felt inthe
packets and letters which he had received
in (relation to the 6th article of the Britifti
treaty, which had amounted to several hun
dred dollars. To relieve this officer from
thus inconvenience, Mr. E. proposed a reso
lution to the following effeft.:
Resolved, that all the letters and pack
ets to or from the attorney-general of the !
United iliall be conveyed, free of j
postage, under like reftriftions with letters
or packet* palling to and fronT the other
heads of department."
Agreed to be referred to the committee
on poft-offices and post-roads.
The amendment of tlje senate to the bill
.authorizing the payment of interest on a
certificate due to gen. Kofciuiko, was tak
en up. This amendment went to strike out
that part of - the interest which had been di
rected by the general to be remitted from
Amsterdam to Leipfic or Dr,efden. , After
some dircuffion, this amendment was disa
greed to 46 to 41.
Mr. Dwight Foster, from the committee
of claims, made an unfavorable report on
the petition of William Brown, a soldier,
which was concurred in by the haufe.
Mr. Tillinghaft called up his resolution
refpefting the fixing of an uniform plan of
weights and measures, which was agreed to
and a committee of seven members appoin
! ted.
A motion for postponing the unfiniftied
business of jefterday, having been made
and carried, the House resolved itfelf into
a committee of the whole on the bill for the
relief of certaSn reprefentatires of certain de
ceased officers and soldiers, Mr. Dent in
the ehaii 1 , whWh, after considerable difcuf
fioa, which chiefly turned upon the prapri
ety'or impropriety of changing the period
whi<& had heretofore been considered as ter
minating the war, in the cowrie of which
different periods were proposed, was agreed
to with one amendment, determining tbat
such officers and soldiers as live&till the 24th
of March 1793, be entitled to the
fame allowance as if they had lived till the
3d of November, in the fame year (the time
at which Cortgrefs disbanded the army.)—
The committee rose, and the house concur
red in the amendment; but, upon the ques
tion's being put for the bill's passing to a
third reading, it was negatived, there be
ing only 26 votes in favour of It.—Of course
the bill is loft.
Mr. Harrifon moved that the report ou
the petition of sundry merchants of Peters
burg, made at the last session, be referred
to the committee of commerce and manu
factures— Agfted.
Oil mofcontif Mr. Harper the house a
gairt went into 1 a committee of tlie whole on
the bill from the Senate allowing a compen
sation to the door-keeper of the Senate and
hi* assistant, during the extraordinary session?
when the amendment prop'ofing to add to
the bill a proijifion in favour of a compen-
I lation to the (erg-ants at arms of the House
[nion there- }
of Reprefentaiivesof 260 dollars, being un
der confideration,'Mr, Harper moved to a
-1 mend the amertdmenlby linking out 260
I and inserting 252 dollars, which he proteJ,
j from a statement which he read, would bring
i hit allowance to the fame amount which liad
| been paid to the door-keeper, calculating
i from commencement of the year 1794* s
i motion was opposed on the ground that- ■
four dollars a day (which was the allowance
. made by law) during his attendance upon
' duty, was lufliciVnt pay for the sergeant at
j arms ; that the door-keeper's allowance was
I a salary of 500 dollars per anrfum, for an
: annual attendance, to which, on of
extraordinary ftrvices, or from the aear
nefs of living, some temporary grants had
been made, the chief of which (and which
principally produced tlie difference spoken
of) was 250 dollars allowed to the present
door-keeper in 1794, when assistant to Mr.
Dally, on account of his having done neatly
the whole of the duty during that session.
The amendment was on one hand urged as
an improper tack to the bill fr«m the Senate
and on the other, it was advocated I as ne
ceflary to put an end to what was thought
to be an improper practice, viz. the grant, '
ingof additional allowances to door-keeperr
aad others on the lad day of a session, up
on a simple resolution of the Houfc,without
enaCting. a law for the purpose.The a
mendment was finally negatived, • there be
ing only votes for it. The bill >vas then
agreed to, and ordered to be read a third
time on Monday.
Mr, Tillinghast gave notice, that on
Monday, he (hould bring forward a resolu
tion for the appointment of a Committee
to bring in a bill for the repeal of the law
inpofißg a duty upon (lamped vellum, parch
ment andpaper.—Adjournedtill Monday.
BOSTON", January 5, 1798.
RBfIEH? OF THE LATE NEWS FIOM EUROPE.
France, having coucluded a peace with-
Austria, and according to the most recent
lion-official intelligence, finally adjusted
terms with Portugal, has tow no employ
011 the continent for her soldiers. Insular
■England, only remains in hostility with her.
Mistress of the sea more unequivocally than
France is of the land, it is, at length, tho'
reluftantly, yielded to her by all-tiie pow
ers, with'whom {he has been contending.
The Republjc of France has dismantled,
either from this motive or necessity, hervaif-
Jeaux de lignc. Batavia has experienced a
defeat which has greatly lessened her mari
time power, and paralysed exertions, which
if aftive, would be years in recreating the
vessels they have loft. The monarchy of
Spain, naturally imbecile, though {he pef
feffes a large navy, yet, being sensible (lie
can only find disgrace upon the ocean, pru
dently keeps them in her ports : though the
absence of the late inferior blockading squad
ron, seems politely to offer to admiral Maf
ferado, an opportunity of enjoying the
wholesome falt-witer air, he yet seems to
dread a ' L ion' or rather a Leviathan " in
the way," and reposes himfelf in the inte
rior harbor of Cadiz...
preTled state of the. marine of hferftlf and
allies, having no service for her armies, and
probably dreading their sudden ' difband
ment, avowedly contemplates an invaiion of
England. In what manner this is to be
attempted, we cannot, to our fatisfaftion,
conjecture ;,if it is thought, a fufficient
number of veffelscan be collefted, tho' of a
i small foice, to transport over the soldiers
j for this purpose, and that ingenuity may
preveift the Engllih from suspeCting or as
certaining feafofiably the moment of their
failing, that they may not be ready to in
tercept their passage, we think the direfto
| ry wrongly eflimates the vigilance of the
j Britilh naval commanders, and reflects net
! on the numerous fry of cutters which the
Englifli have. If it is expefted that from
the Mediterranean, Spain, and Holland,
with the equipment of their own fleets, they
(hall be able to fcrrm an armada superior to
any naval force the Englifli can oppose to them
taking- experience into view, we conceive
they will be disappointed. The power
whose separate fqnadroas defeat or defy
the scattered fleets of the allies, will, col
leftivcly, be proportionately superior, and
probably fuccefsful.
If the threatened inyafion is not merely
made to terrify the Englilh into their terms
(which we fufpeft) an army larger than a
ny since th» days of Xerxes, will probably
be collefted for the purpose—On their cros
sing the channel every exertion will un
doubtedly be made to (lop them ; if they
evantually land, their reception will be warm
—The blood of the ancient Albions still
remains in fufficient purity to urge the pre
sent Britons to the most desperate confliCl
to repel the invaders, and protest their
wi*es, their offspring, and their property.
Whatever may be the issue of the expedi
tion, the {laughter of human beings must
be terrible—it cannot reafonabiy be com
puted at less than one hundred thousand !
If Great Britain is subjugated (though
common sense wjll blame us for thus appar
ently admitting the possibility) the conse
quences, the changes in the world, a.e in
calculable. In attempting to trace them
by reflection, we are completely loft, as he
who endeavors to explore the mysteries of
divinity. We believe, ere England is con
quered by France
"Dover's cliffs from Calais rent,"
Must be again united. ( Majf.Merc.")
LONDON, Oftober 15.
Admiral de Winter fays, that he was
forced out by the French party, against his
own judgment ; for knowing the very bad
state of his (hips, and the iudifpofition of
several of the crews, to the cause, he knew
that he was not a match for the EnglilH
squadron. His orders were, however, to
fight them, if they met ; and he had no
deftinat'.on appointed to him in his Cruize.
He haS merely orders to ciuize between the j
two coasts ; and, as he had been threaten- j
• tned with a Court Martial for having m?dc
some objcflion to failing;, he dil, not doubt
he <hoi,ld have been Condemned, hid he re
turned without 3 battle. Having
ed his duty in the mod gallant manner, he
appears, since his capture, to be j n
good fpin'ts, and has pasTed great part of
kis time in Admiral Duucsn's cabin He
fay*, tTk.V it was the fetious dct ruiination
■of-tlw; French, in the beginntng of the furn
mer, to invade Ireland, and that 45,000"
men were ready for embarkation. The
blockade prevented the design from being
executed. There was not a on
board the Dutch fleet ; nor any troops but
those which belonged to the complements
of the refpe&ive ships.
The number of guns on the fide of the
Dutch was 1266, and of men, 8572. On
the iide of the British the guns were 1066
and the men 8315, not including those of
the frigates and (loops, of which the two
frigates, the Beaulieu and the Circe, carry
85 guns and about 500 men. The Dutch
68 gun ships ate equal, if is /aid, to our
74's, their metal befhg heavier.
O&ober 21. j
The number of the Dutch ships of war
taken the late engagement (efevefi) is
precisely the fame as that taken in rhe' year
J653> ■by Blake, from Van Tromp.
The Dutch prizes are refitting at Yar
mouth, with all poflible expedition, in or
der that they may be in a fafe Rate to be
sent round the Nore.
The Ganges, of 74 guns, capt.M*Dow
al, with five fail of the liße and three fri
gates, have already re-placed Admiral Lord
Duncan's fqnadron on their late flation off
the Texel.
Public Sale of Real Estates.
On THURSDAY Evening, the 1 rth of
February next, will be exposed to Public Sale
at the Merchants' CoflFee-houfe in Second-street'
at 6 o'cleck in the evening, the following '
ESTATES.
No I. A two story brick Hau.'t, with » two
story frame Built iags,ou a lot 10 feet front and
lOC fert deep ; also, a vacant Lot of 40 feet iquare
with the privilege of an alley to go thereto. This
mterelt has lately been let for 100 dollars per an
num, and is situated in Chri'Kan-ftreet, between
A S "? nd ftrcet, > the houie from
Mr. Caleb AlhY
No, l. A three story brick House, situate at
the north raft corner us Chifnut streets, being 14
feet on Second.<frcet, aad 20 feet on Chcfnut
ftreV, now in the tenure of Mr. Morange, at the
yearly rent of 4CC d'ollars, and is detmedone of
the be ft (lands for the fala of dry goods in this city.
No. 3. A handfoine well fiililhed three story
-brick House, 10 feet front and 103 feet deep, situ
ate in Fifth-ftreet, between Market and Arch
ftreett, No. 40. This house is built and fimflied
in the modern style, is in complete repair* with
double collarsiinder the whole. Thei eis a ciflcrn
of rain water iu the yard ; and the house is at pre
fer t let for 600 dollars per annum with the taxes.
No. 4. A three story .brick House, situate in
Plumb-street, between Second and Third street,
being JO feet front and 138 feet deep, at present
occupied by Robert Kenny.
No 5. A three story brick House, on the bank
fide of Front-street, No. 171 North, going thro'
to Water-street, where it is five story. It is 29
feet front and 48 feet deep, iu complete rtpair,
and is renfd for 606 dollafspcr apuuro.
The conditions ol Sale are, one quarter ca(li,
one quarter in 6 months, one quarter >"
Philadelphia, Jan. 12,1798. 3«wtljP
FOR THE CURE OP
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, CON
SUMPTIONS,
.And all disorders of the Breaji and Lungs,
Church's Cough Drops
Is a medicine unequalled by any other iotfce worW.
51 Y - • 1 'i ¥l??> T KJ C4 W"rtl yViit l Wl-iw
" I hereby certify,' that I have been cured of a
most levere Cojd, ?nd pain in my
breast, by taking only n few c|ofes oiLr.-Cnuacu's
Coughl Drops. CHARLES BEVANS,"
Sail Maker, Spruce street wharf, Philadelphia.
From a London Paper.
To Dr. CHURCH.
111 ' 'bK . nVv «({} a'i tni
Having been recently restored from the brink of
thegrave, by your invaluable medicine, 1 thinkit
my du'y to make this public ?o.nowledgmeDt cf
the fame, for the benefit of others aflifled with a
Cnlilar complaint. I had been affliCled with a most
dreadful afihipa for about twentyrthree years. I
never for years got any reft, my cough was fe
tr»ubkfo*.-e in the night; andufed to discharge an
a'.moft incredible quantity of glutinous raatttfr
from my. lungs ; and my breath was fe exceeding
short that I could not walk across my room. Pro
videntially hearing of your Cough Drops, I took
them ; and, through taking them alone,! am now,
bJefi'ed be God! restored to perfeAhealth. My
cafe is well known to the members of the Ebene
aer Chapel, in Lincoin's-Inn-f ield, of which 1 am
*!fo a member ; and any of them will gladly fa
tiasy any inquiry concerning the truth of what I
fay. I am, Sir, yonr fervant,
NATHANIKL LANG WORTHY,
No. 8, Smith's-court, Great Wiudmill-ftreet,
Hay-market.
Witilefs,
N. L*ngworVhy, jun.No. 40,
Pultney street, Goid'en-fquar»?
CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS
Ar« prepared and :o)d (only) by the inventor and
fewe i roprietor, Or. James Church, at his Medi
cine Store, No. 1 South Third-street, next the Mar*
ket, Philadelphia; and by appointment, at New-
Yoi k„ by Meffis staples and Co. 169 Pearl-(,trecr,<
aad Miss Wcdman, 1 12 "Willi. m-ftfe«.
Dr. Cliutch may be corfuhed every day, at his
office, 158 South Front-street, PhiUda'phia,
January 9. .1 v. ; .v
FOR S -tLE, y
William Piuestman,
119, South i ; ront-!trcet, next door to the Cuf
, tora-hnufe,
A n'Z: if ' '
Gold and iilver Watches
A Titre Kecp.-r, liy
S 'ine plated Can i, v , , t> . >.
Douhlc barrelled Guns,.by Mortimer, maktr
to the' Kijig of ■
Dittit, bv Parker
Plir durllirtg Piftoi»» by Kuubley, Charing
CrAss
ReffeiSiitg Te!er.:ope, I))- llibright
. Hox of patent Medicines'
60 ft. Frulch Thread
SOs. I cJlletflirii of valuable and
' 80. ksr>of Prints
, 30,0'. o acres of Land in one lot, upon t!:«
SySandv. irt Ntaf"" cigjity# Kenpieky, pa
tfrtfrf bv Pen iva! Hutle-, i;i;.
Aifti, 14 Lake trie l.cts
r<itfe;»fs or p.irccls cf Welches 'odt;g}.v.Xije
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY EVENING, JAKUARY ij.
For the Gazette of the United States.
Reflections on Monroe's "View."
No. VIII.
Upon reading the preceding letters, every one
naufl be struck with ihe omtiaft which they pre
sent. li the indifcretion,if the abjeil condcfcen
fion, 'if the zeal of M*. Monroe to fervc the
French republic on this occasion, excite painful
" fenfatioas in the breast of every true American,
the prudence, the independence of spirit, andthe
genuine patriotism which diftinguifli Mr. Jay,
:i> ought to be a fouree of heartfelt pleasure.
f. Our minister at Paris having inil'reprefented
. , the miflioa to London, it wai improbable, if not
impolHble, that any treaty Great-
Britain, -would not have been the fubjefl of
" complaints on the part of France. So hostile
wai France'to Great-Britain, that it would have
objefted treaty whatever, and therefore
* those who wilhed to defeat any and every trea
™ ty, would <,mleaveur to do so anterior to its rat
ification. With this view, the committee of
public fifety were anxious to poflili a copy of
the treaty which was reported to have been ne
gotiated, anil they requested Mr. Monroe to
furnifti tliern with the treJty itfelf as fooi as
pofiible, declaring that it <was the only means
that ivmid fatisfy them concerning it. Wfcat
.right had the committee to make this request?
and why was it made in terms so full of inso
lence ? The forms of our constitution are well
known iu France, and consequently, they knew
that the treaty hid not been ratified when they
desired a copy, and it was for the purpose of en
abling them to interfere with effect in our na
tional eontradls, that the demand was. made.
But they are not alhame'd to accompany this un
warrantable request, with a declaration that a
fight of the treaty alone luould fatisfy them ; in
plainer words, that they would not believe any
thing that Monroe our minister fliould tell them
en the fubjeft. That Mr. Monroe lhould he
insensible to any insults offered to his country by
France i or that he fnould yield to its demands
however improper, they who know his blind
and fanatie il attachments will fupp'ofe poflible:
But had he no feeling for hii Own honor, for his
own reputation, when he was told by the com
mittee, and in writing too, that nothing but
the treaty itfelf would fatisfy them, or in other
words, they should not believe any thing Jic
ibould fay concerning it ! To this demand, en
croaching en our rights of forereignty, and ex
pressed in terms the raoft contemptuous, was no
• other answer tejbe given.than that he( Mr.Mon
roe) was then ignorant of the particular ftipu
htions of the treaty, but he begged leave to aj
ure them, he would communicate the fame to
them as soon as he lhould be informed ? He
ought to have told the committee with manly
candour, that the treaty eou'd not be communi
cated in its present uufinifhed state to the councils
of any foreign nation j and he might have re
peated what by order of his government he had
before told them, that so stipulation would be
made inconsistent with the prior engagements
of the United States to foreign nations ; and
he might have informed them on the authority
of our envoy, that no futh stipulations had beeii
made.
The ex-minister was not fatisfied with giv
ing this evidence of his tame, mean-spirited de
portment towards the committee : He went fur
ther, and made an eflurt "ty .L.:-
insolent and ill-iritefntidned request, by Tending a
special messenger to London for the treaty, even
although he was informed by Mr. Jay, that it
was improper to publilh the treaty without ihe
express leave of government before it was rati--
fied, and was offered a copy of the treaty in per*
feft confidence only In his letter he tells Mr.
Jay, that he had promised to communicate the
treaty to the committee, who «j allies thought
they were entitled to it, and said nothing lei's
would fatisfy them ; for which purpose he had
sent for it ; and when this wife and steady
itatefman abfoluttlv refufed him a copy, for the 1
very reason jh»t induced the ex-minilt'er to fend
for it, the refufal Is taken sorely at heartland is
the fubjeft of various and Wonlifterit com
plaints to the Secretary of State. At one time,
he laments that he was not pofTeffed of infor
mation that might be ufeful to our affairs in
France; and in the fame letter, dated 17th
March 1795, fays, if the communication had
been made to him, he lhould have declared that
on his own knowledge the treaty did not inter
fere with the prior engagements, but that being
a mere projefl, fubje<2 to rt-jetfioii &c. it ought
not to be publifhetl; and that this declaration
would hive been fatisfaflory to the committee—
(page 142). To Mr. Jay, however, when he
applied for ,the treaty, he said that nothing ltfs
than the treaty itfelf would fatisfy the commit
tee ; that he had promised it to them, and had
sent for it for their ufc ; and he even added, that
as allies they thought they had a right to it.—
Under these inconiiftencies, it is no wonder we
find Mr. Monroe uirder aouflantembarrafiVneiits.
When Mr- Jay offered thetrirityto him in con
fidence, he refufed 10 rake it, faying it would
not answer his ends,"unless lie could Ihew it to
the committee ; ind that his promiie to them
required him to communicate it whenever it
fnould be in his power. It was then his own
fault that he did not obtain, as he might have
obtained, the treaty confidentially. If he had
not been so kind and liberal in his promises, he
would have got it, and on his own knowledge
of it, he might-have represented k truly to the
committee. It is true, when our envoy was de
sired to<ommunicate it, to enable Mr. Monroe
to perform this promise, he with great proprie
ty abfolately refufed to do so. If he had com- s
plied, after he knew the design of the request,
he would have been equally culpable with Mr.
■Monroe.
But the ex-minister affe&s to be perplexed re
lative to Mr. Jay's conduit, who after informing
him that the treaty could not bepubli/hed, ofFer°- 1
ed to communicate the contents to him in eon- :
fder.ee. This was perfectly confident and prop- j
er in our envoy, who no doubt supposed it ought i
be ufeful to our public ass .irs, that our minister ,
at the IJrench republic lhould confidentially ,
know the situation of his country in relation to
so powerful a nation as Great-Britain; and
who also believed it was neither prudent cor ne- c
ceffary that our minister at Paris lhould cotnmu- 1
nicate to the French republic, w-fiatever he knew I
concerning the United States. Another .thing r
Items to the ex-minister very unaccountable,
that Mr. Jay flioiild qfier trt him the treaty and >
then denv it. Let ..e'offer
ed it in (Jeaitd it after Mr Mo:i- f
> roe had Hated thft his engagements to the com- e
mittee required him to lay the treaty before 1
them whenever he gut it ; fa.that it wis impof- f
lible to communicate it caufi^eritial'y. .
As allies, it is said the commiitee, they t
had a right to infpea the treii,y we were mak- I
ingwith Great-Brifain. Did France ever ex-
h bit to the Prefi,lent of the United States any 1
ot her tpeatics, euher before or after the/ w.era F
concluded .' This idea lb hurai!iai:i:ig, Qccs uo r
• appear to Save been difappraved, but even coun
tenanced by our minister to the French repub
lic, in his letter to Mr. Jay, -where he feeqns -o
. it as a reafm for letting him have the frea
ty for the committee.
Difappointcd in getting a copy of the treaty
from our envoy, he still continued his exertion*.
Whtp MajorPinckney mas at Paris on his way
to Madrid, our minister Monroe represented to
him that Frasce was inclined to give him every
aid, it he would desire it, and wculd also fatisfy
the committee that they were net injured by the
treaty negotiated with Great-Bri ain.
It was well kntfvn to Mr. Monroe, that noth -
' e _ ing but a copv of the treaty (which he also knew
was in poffeflion of major Pinckney) would be
fatisfadlory to the committee ; and therefore
e one of the conditisnsmentioned to major Pinck-
Jl ney, on which the aid of France was to be ex
pefled, was the disclosure of ihe Britilh tieaty
le to the committee. It is thys Mr. Pinckney Un
1' derftood the propofition.aud with great proprie
ty he too refufed to (hew the treaty to the com
mittee, or toalkthp aid of France in his nego
-31 tiation Let me cite from Mr. Monroe's letter
'■ to the Secretary of State, of 14th June 1*95,
j 1 what he fays on this fubjedl : " Whilst here 1
le presented to his (major Pinckr.ey) view what
had passed between this government and myfelf
v upon the fubjetf of his miflioa, affuriqghim from
what I had heard and seen, that livas ofopin
tor, in cafe he 'would explain himfelf to th; com
"■ m " tee up™ that fubjed and express a <iui/h, they
, ivbat aid they could conveniently, in
o f U p° rt hh "egociation ; fatisjying them at
thejame time, that they -were not injured by Mr.
14 Jay * treaty, they would do it, &c. (<> c. Mr.
' J Pinckney wasfenfible.of the benefit which the
'I alrf of !h is republic would yield in his negotia
tion, and wished it ; hut upon mature coi.fide
'j ration he could not request such aid, without
having previously exposed to its view Mr. Jay's
" treaty, and which he did not chufe to do, for
y considerations delicacy forbade me to enquire v
into"—(page 175).
J After these unavailing endeavours to obtain
' of the treaty for the committee of public
fafet\, Mr. Monroe was oliliged to acquiesce,
a and to wait wi'.h patience till the Preiident and
n Senate lhould a<S upon it, unadvised by foreign
y councils. In endeavouring to defeat the final
n fticcefs of the million to London, every motive
c seemed to have concurred in influencing his coa
y dust in this tranfadlion—his psrfonal dislike to
is Mr. Jay, his devotion to France, his hatred of
a England, and above all, his love to himfelf. In
: this view, he has informed tfae puklie, that he
' very early forefaw if the treaty ftiould be ratifi
>' ed,.and not agreeable to France, that he lhould
><■ probably he recalled. If Mr. Monroe did sore
r fee this, (and his penetration on this point I am
e not inelined to call in question) it is very evi- '
dent that his felf-love, or rather his anxious de-
fire to remain at Paris, would prompt him to do
0 every thing that would prevent any treaty with
" Great-Britain from being fully confirmed—l fay
; any treaty, because it was well known to him
- that any treaty with that nation would be difa
-5 greeable to the French republic-, and on this e- J
s vent he expelled his continuance in office would
f depend. This forefight which Mr. Monroe 1
thought he poffelled, and which has explained ]
s hi. fohcitude to get a copy of the treaty, will .
be a key to the sequel of his diplomatic conduit.
It was not altogether to serve France, that the 1
- representative of the United State, descended (
S to be the humble instrument of the committse,
1 but t9 Promote hi. own views—a thing not un- ]
\ common among the men wh 0 appear mod de- '
' voted to the will of foreign nations. 1
SCIFIO. |
PENNSYLVANIA LEGISLATURE 1
In the honfe of at. .tl.io
- -nute, on the 4th instant, petitions were pre-
( fented from citizens of Northumberland,
praying for a grant of money to open and 1
improve a road from Miiflinfburgh, to the
Knob Mountain ; from citizens'of the coun-
ty of Philadelphia, praying for a turnpike
; read from this city to Reading, by the falls
; of the Schuylkill; from citizens of Wash
' count y» P r aying that a new eleiftion 1
I dinria: may be eredted, comprehending %
», Donneghal and Findley town (hips ; and '
• 'h® managers of the Delaware and
. Schuylkill navigation, praying for aid in the
; completion of their canal. The annual ac- i
, count of the Penrifylvania hospital was pre
. fented. A bill was reported fupplementa n
to the aft for incorporating a society for | T
the relief of diftreded and deceased pilots, i
their widows and children. The committee . 4
to whom it was referred to eoniider of the
best mode of disposing of the house built
for the President, recommended that it be
let on lease for four years. A committee
was appointed, for bringing in a bill to au
thorize the county cemmiffioners to keep a
record of the roads. The honfe went into
a committee of the whole, on the bill to p
anthorize the governor to incorporate a com- o
pany to ered* a bridge over the Schuylkill, tl
near the city of Philadelphia, and, after w
some discussion the committee rose, and had S
leave to fit again. t (
On the> jth instant, a petition was pre- ia
fented from citizens of New Hanover town- b
Ihip, Montgomery county, for leave to raise
500 dollars by way of lottery to build a ol
school-house. Reports were made in favor ai
of the petition from Montgomery county o:
for two new eleftion diftrifts ; and of that tl
from Dauphin county for leave to raise » ft
sum of money by way of lottery to build a bi
bridge across the Sweetara creek. The re- oi
poit of the committee in favor of making di
a turnpike road through Germantown to fe
Reading, was read a second time and a- w
greed to, and a bill dire&ed to be reported d<
accordingly.
On the 6th ind, petitions were introdu
ced from Montgomery county, praying for ni
a new eleftion diftridl ; and from the Mana- th
gers of the Pennsylvania Hospital, contain- vc
ing a ftateraent of the expeuditures njjfle on la
the new wing of the Hospital, and the de- tii
nciencics which remain, praying for furtker lei
legislative aid. Report was made in favor th
of making Smithfield ercek a pnhlic high- fp
way, and also iu favour of Nathaniel Bel- wl
lew in respect to his eleaion. A bill was all
reported to enable the owners of the Bristol
meadows to keep them in repair. The bill
supplementary to an ad for extending the
power ©f Julticcs of Peace, and the bill t® C:
empower the Comnvffionfrs of Weftmore- to
land county to appoint the alienors and »[- th
fiftant in fwndry towndiipg thereof for the of
purposes therein mentioned, were agreed to. th
Peter Baynton and Frederick A. Muhlen- Pa
T>erg were nominated candidates for the foi
Treasury ihip of the State. The hottfe in
proceeded to the further conlideration of the 'Pr
rc-foltuioii for the appointment of a commit- he
w
tee to consider the propriety of continuing
the aft making further comjjenfetion to the
Judges ; after a lengthly debate, ad
journed without coming to a decision.
■y
*. ■ THIAT*ICAL COMUU N ICJ.T lON.
[y THE attrition j the New Tncjtrr, both (at no
»elty and strength, were never n\prc numerous than
at|the piefeot season ; ar.d (he corit qa-nce ol the ex
eftion and etierprir.e oi tfce is accor<!io|fly
y difpUjed in » continued
C u C "' T ° enfu ' c P a:r °n'S . \tlie mo I simple and
obviouj course i, '.O rocite it; and tins cannot, per
-1 - hap-, be better effefied than bv ocrreveriog efforts to
w render ihe ftsjc wha it fhoultj be, a school of clo
)e Quence, of life and mannzis—above leprutch—un
_e Hain'd b* jtfts «ibfcene
fra last evening was in many of its parts
drlet'ving the attention of the nttmetous audience it
attrafteH. Abroad and at Home abounds with
y comic effeft, and is enlivened by some excellent songs
1- and duets,-—but the principal charatt-rs ajeonly half
f- drawn, wlii.e the want of mural (ends the piece off
I. with a flit. Thisplay seems marked by an extreme
1- inecyality and while some of its scenes appear trac
■[■ ed by the hand ol a mailer, others are a ike incongru
ous ind uni nerefiing. Caot. O'Nezle it made the
I vehicle ol many excellent lentiments; and they came
with a manly energy from Hardinge, To Haiwood
and Bernard the audience w<-re indebted for a la
fund of de!igh% and the humuurs of Count lipitaffo
n Bedchini were irrefiflibly comic.
l-1 played a vivacity and judgment, which give the (air
eft promifr, and the longs of Mrs; Warrell were eX
■y quifuely fine. Francis, and the qther performers in
n general merit commendation for the corrcftnefs with
If *hich they acquitted themselves tit arduous and dif
ficu't charafters. Trie elegant 'ce*e, rep efentitig the
' prison, and purliaus. of the is fajd to
' be a very just and naiural reprt fentation. W.
MARRIED—Oa Thursday last by the
it R"- I>r- Blackwell, Mr. Car
's mick, of this city, to' Miff.Si/SAN Co
ir ZENS, daughter of capt. Daniel Cozens of
c> New-Jersey.
. On evening by the Rev.
° Dr. Blackwell, Mr. John M'Elroy, of
Bucks county, to Miss An* Cooper, of
d this city.
1 extract.
e "It has always been found of great use
to a Physician to be of some feci of religion;
he is in general pretty sure of those that be
n long to it, and of some patients out
e of curiosity. He should be a Catholic, a
- PrefbyterlSn, a Quaker, a Sandeminian, a
i Swedtnborgian, or a Jew. The thee and
• thou of the late Dr. John Fothergill of Lon-
don, was supposed to be worth two thoa
. sand pounds a year to him at kaft."
1 From the Bojlon Daily Advertiser.
t MR. EDITOR,
1 On looking over a late European publi
| cation, I was forcibly struck with tha fol
j lowing " paraphrase," it being applicable in
. many refpefts, both to the past and present
1 principles and views of JACOBINS, in
I France, and of those i* America.
;j. PARAPHRASE
1 On the French ten commandments, at taught
, in all their Schoolt.
• I. No Gods we'll have, like fools of old,
No Deities we'll own but gold,
j 11. Saints, images you may purloin,
! And turn them into ready coin.
■ 111. God's name we fiould no more adore,
IV. No mote on Sutidays read or pray,
( For all religion's done away,
[ V. Regard na more what parents fay,
. Each child is free to take its way.
. VI. No more are ye reftrain'd to kill,
. Cut throats, and murder whom you will,
j VII. That word adultery disown,
Use all men's wives as if your «wn.
VIII. Steal any thing you meet by chance,
. v For thieving is now law in France.
IX. False witness bear in any thing,
[ For truth is n»w coufidered fin.
X. Covet and take whatever you fee,
French Liberty makes all things free.
That the above •« paraphrase" contains
more of truth than satire, I believe few
1 will dispute; excepting the Chroniclnjls.
\ From the|love and exercifeof tliefe French
tenets may heaven ever preserVe ns!
A FEDERALIST.
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORkT Jan. 12.
By the Jay, Capt. Dyer, from Liver
pool, we have received a few London papers
of November.butjthey are not of later dates
than before received ; and are chiefly filled
with Parliamentary Debates on the King's
Speech. A Paper of the 1 ith Nov. is said
to be received, but contains nothipg mater
ially new. The Jofiah Collins failed 4 days
before Capt. Dyer.
Mr. Bryan Edwards, in the Britiih hoyfe
of Commons, Nov 2d, in the debate on the
to his Majelty's Speech, speaking
of Lord Duncan's Viftory, said " Amidjj
the rejoicing for such a display of our naval
superiority, what fort of heartnuift mat that
be which could refleft, without sorrow up
on the havoc of that day ; which could me
ditate upon its advantages without feeling
severely foKthe men who fell ; which could .
without regret and horror, read the blondy '
detail in the Gazette, that regider of a •
slaughter-house, that muster roll of Death ?" i
Major Ellford, in reply, said, " he could
rot help expressing his disapprobation of -
the condufl of those gentlemen who endea
voured to mar and cloud the splendor of the 1
late naval viftory, by unseasonably enumera
ting the lofsof the brave men who had fal
len on that glorious occasion. It was nei
ther just nor fair, and could only damj> the
spirit of the country, and embitter the joy
which so proud a triumuh mult have natur
ally inspired." I
PROVIDENCE, I.) January 6. C
Mr. William Magee, who arrived from r
Canton in the ship Grand Turk, to I a
town lince our last. He informs, that on
their homeward bound paflage, in the straits f
of Banca, they spoke the fliip .Eliza, of
this port, late commanded by capt- William
: Page—c;ipt. Carr (then commander) in
formed Ifirri, that on the 17th of April last,
in the straits of Java, they discovered a
Prow with Malays on board—supposing j
her a trading vcfJe'l, the capt. difpritched a !
ng boat To her, on which (he-came along fide,
he , The Linguist asked if they were traders,
id- , theyanfweied iutfac affirmative, upon which
■ he, with the Thomas Page, aijd a
-1 nother feamao, went on board. Capt. Page
obfervwg'fome weapons, requested the Ma
lay chief to give him one, which he did—
[x _ on feeing some others of a more curious
Ifly workinanfhip, he asked for one of them —on
his (looping dawn to examine them, a Ma
cr_ lay thrust a knife info his body* Capt. P.
lo on receiving the wound sprang for his own
>o- velfel, but fell between her and the Prow
into the water—the mate with considerable
rti i Exertion got him into the cabin window—
i: he lived about 40 minute». Oil the cap
lth tain's being wounded, the action became
'/if general. Thomas Page and the Linguist
off were killed on board the Prow ; jhc Malay
me chief and 10 of his crew were killed, and
in about half an hour they were beat off.—
he Few men have been more beloved thancapt.
nae Page ; his amiable manners were peculiarly
°*j calculated to feciire general esteem, and all
I® ! who knew him teftimony to his worth,
[if. j To the public his'lofs is great, but to his
ir- family and more immediate connexions it is
' irreparable.
d
lif- ; " The east end of the new Masonic Hall
he in this town is ornamented with an emble-
I. mat ' c masterly piece of painting. Tbe ccn
| tre figure arrayed in royal robes, is o* full
[ ie ! size, reprefehting that great orientalluminary
R _ j who was the firft eminent patron of the
0 _ . sublime art. This figure is seated in a chair
of State, beneath a splendid canony, iliu
i mined by the effulgent rays of the eye of
■v. ! om nifcieiice. In each of the recedes on
0 f the right and left, ate delineated in 7 feet
of , figures , his two illustrious contemporaries
and able aflillants, in a stile 'equally grace
ful and natural. The representation is in
closed by a bold masterly work in the fore
ife SJ" oun d, composed of pillars, pilasters, ca
n. pitals and arches ; the whole forming a fu
be P5 r h display of the pencil, which reflefts
ut V© honour on the talents of the ingenious
a artists, brother George Sugden, and Mr.
a Gottlieb Gehrung—as do the fpacioustiall
J( j and adjacent rooms, in point of eleganae
n _ and size, on the .Lodge of St. John, No. I,
U- Providence. Much praise is also due to
Brother Caleb Ormfbee, the architedt un
der whose able direction arose this pleasing
assemblage of" JVifdom, Strength and Beauty
- —^W—————,
li- GAZETTE MARINE L l*sT.
il- .1.-
m _ Baltimore, Jan. 10.
it Arrived in the bay, brig John, captain
in Henderfon, from Malaga, which she left
the 20th September. In the John came
pafTenger, Mr. William .Lowry, merchant
f lt of this city.
Arrived at Annapolis, brig Ariel, capt.
Field, from Aux Cayes, which he left tha
sth December.
We are favored with the following lift of vef-
f ell .at Annapolis and in the lay.
e, Sh 'P Sall y> Stiles, from Amsterdam
o , if P atch ' ditto
Schr. Sifters, Johns, Aux-Cayes
Peggy, Edwards, Havannah
Beauty, Hayes, ditto
Charming Betsey, Mirick, C.N. Mole
Ship Louis, Deal, Bremen
|ji J. wo iloops from New-York
Szhooner Barbara is laid to be below
Four schooners from Boflon, ~i Lamp
■» I°' £ r ° m Nantuckf t, i oil and.
One do- from Connecticut, J notions,
Captain Stiles spoke the ship Margaret,
capt. Coward, on the 19th December, a
| bout 40 leagues from cape Henry, out 13
weeks from Biemen.
is novv Isabella, 16 weeks from Hamburg.
v Schr. Hornet, from C. N. Mole.
Left there,
h Patriot, expected to be cleared
» Minerva, expedted to be condemned.
Schr. Liberty, from Aux-Cayes—M.
M'Canfland.
Schr , Port-ati-Prince.
The brig Betsey, capt. Van Bueren. and
schooner Fancy, had arrived at C. N. Mole
the fontier in 14 days.
NEW THEATRE.
3 - THIS EVENING,
J JANUARY 13,
] Will ie presented (by desire) the Tragedy of tile
REVENGE,
j With b Musical Entertainment of
THE PRIZE ;
t Or, 2, 5, 3, 8.
ball.
f Mr. Byrne's third Ball will be on Tues
day the 17th January, at Oellers's hotel—
-1 Gentlemen's Tickets at one dollar each to 1
1 be had at the hotel. Ladies' Tickets to be
had of Mr. and Mrs. Byrne, No. 114, North
■Sixth Street.
f Th« days of Tuition for young ladies, 1
1 a flitted by Mrs. Byrne, are on Tuesday and :
Saturday morning—in the afternoon of the
; fame days for young gentlemen, and Thurs
day and Saturday evenings for gentlemen.
January 13. jt .
,• For Sale, by the Package,
, For cafe, or good notes at fjjjy or ninttydayi,
Book and Jaconet Muflin# plain") 1
stripes, and Checks |
do. do. Tambotired V or ted in
do. Ladies handkerchiefs, & | P"kage«.
gentlemen'j neck do. J '
Jaconet ehiniz muslin for home and the Wefi
India market, Puilicote and linen handkerchiefs, 1
for do. do printed do. do. common purple arid J
chintz (hawls.
Tire above goods entitled tp drawback on ex- ]
portation. Alio a few fcotchcambrii ks and an t
afiortnieiit of mu()in by the pi, ce.
ri,e Whole of the abbVehei-g a <• ,moment «
from the manufacturers rn Britain. f
1 Tn be seen st
Office, Ni>. 64, South Second Street. 1 '
-' N< 6 - _ _ MWtf. ! 1
oval bottles; * i;
Quart and h.ilf gallon in cratet —and a quanti- t
ty i,t Claret Bottl>s of a right fi/t—For sale at i
No. 13, Church Alley, JOHN DOR.'EY.
! 3t*w6w. I
Custom-House Sales.
Philadelphia, January 13, 1798.*
ON Monday, the agth of January, 1798, at t\
o'clock, will be fold by public audion, at the
Cuftom-Houfc, in of theJtws in tha jcafe
made and provided, thr fnlJ.jwing articles of &>cr«
chandize, having been fto'red more than nine months
aid not claimed by owners or conQgnces thereof*
which articles m%y be virwed .during the Mte of
thie day# antecedent to the day of faie, between iuc
hotsrt of nine and twp ocim.
fCP Two caCpf, containing Woollen Hat»
MpC One cafe, containing tfo?ks and Pamphlets
R P Threecaflcs, containing Girth Web*
/ V
(DU) One calk, containing Spades and ShovJj
Vv Four calk?, containing Garden Seeds, Pesa
P and Beam
IS One keg of Red Leadg
<> WC One crate of Earthen Ware
BTM Two do. do.
WL One do. and two cases containing Images and
ornaments for building
pNo m'aikj. Two Hampeis of Settled Porter
P £ig*it Hampers ot Empty Bottle*
WB One calk of Bottled Porter
Tho'sStephens One bundle, containing pieces of
Mafic
jVIr Scott. One box containing old Pamphlets
Mr* Atibley One box of Pamphlets
W-i Thrte pipes Madeira Wine
One box of Pewter Lamps
B One box containing BmChes
G Boilar.d. One cask containing ajchsefe and fom'e
oar meal
yR fr ie crate of FTartlie.i Ware
R 11 One drate ot Earrftcn Ware.
}*At4rs llig
SUBSCRIBER
INTEKDING to leave (llis country in the course
of the summer forF.urope (if he complc-*ts the
settlement of his afTsTts by that time) and wh.'te it
is probaMe he may refiMe as a met'chiQr—requcfts
every man who has any demands agiinft him to
coir.e forward -in order liut & final fct
tlemJht may take place
george Meade.
Philadelphia, Jan 13,1798.
TO BE SOLD,
On FRIDAY, the 30th ri March next, at hit
dwelling houfs ill Chefniti-ftreet, four doors 4-
bove 1 enth-flreet,
All his houfhold and kitchen
Furniture Plate, &c &c, and which may be view
ed every day for three day» before the sale, from
ten o'clock in the morning till one o'clock, and
from three o'clock in the a'tern&on tili night.
TO BE SOLD Br PRIVATE SALE,
And if not fold by Saturday, 27th January, then
to be set up, and positively fold, at PUBLIC
VENDUE, at the Merchants' Coffee houfc, at
6 o'clock in the evernrg.
The SubfcriberVHoufe, No. 78,
in Walnnt-ftreet, two doonb low Fowrth-ftreet;
is jww occupied by Dr. S'evens for one year from
4th November Uft, at the rent of 4C.01. per annum;
it was rented at the time of the late fever, or it
would have brought, I think, more. The two
Stlbles in Walnut street will be set up separately
or together 5 the largefl one now renfsfor 551. the
smallest for 4jl. per annum, and they are arched
and laid in mortar and two irteh plank, and the
cellar will hold about 100 pipes of wine, which I
was ohee offered 601. per annum for. AlargeStoro
in Fourth street, 33 feet front by JO feet deep, a
good yard and necessary belonging to it; onthi»
(lore is a ground rent of II dolls. 75 cents per afln.
this baildihg is rented to the public for eighteen
months at 2JOI. per annum, ind the rent was paid
down j. |t might hate been rented at the famepri<:•
for throe years, but I declined it l»aft it might hurt
tfee sale. A lut in Fourth street, 10 feet front by
50 feet deep, on which i> a ground rent of 6 dol
lars per annum; it has the privilege of a three feet
alley adjoining the lof.
Should it make any difference to the purchaser,
Mr.MtAOE to prevail on Dr, Ste.
yens to give poflelfieo foonar, if- hp ean with coa
venience.
SAY M 8 NTS.
Approved note? and indorfetsat 6,9, 12 and 18
month® .5 th« deed to be lodged with Wm. Tilgh
man; Esq. till the notes are paid : On the house,
tdward "irlcs; Efq ha« 3 n-ortgage for 1630 L On
the ttables, Mr. .-a-nutl •Williams for ?001. The#
sums m\j lay ae-ongan h'fr'
ing the itltCTtft regularly.
for further particulars, apply to William Tilgh.
Wq-. or to the fubfcnber, Chduut, four
dears above Tenth-ftrtet
GEORGE MEADE.
(TO > POP SALE—the /ofionting
Tra&s and Lots of Land,
Of an excellent quality.
No. 1. Four hundred and thirty acres of excrl.
lent Land, on tire waters of Back creek, Freder
ick tfon: ty, Vir rinie, on great road leading to
-«U» brarch, about ten milss from Wincheller s
one hundred of which is rich kottom ; a fine
fir<am running through it, with several springs ;
the trues in the bottom are thiefly fygar' maple,
blvck walriwt. hicory and locull ; there is a log
dwelling ami cut houfa, i'ome meadow made, and
ibout forty acres of upland cleared; on this traft
there is a good mill feat, where an und«r-(hot mill
;mtgfrrhejtt«sfed£"' ?Tai-;
No. 2. Two hundred and fifty acres, about two
miies from Woodflock; part of this trait is it,
cultivation, is findy timbered, and a good quanti
ty of rafaadow may be made.
No. 3. Two rhoufand five hundred acres on th«
waters of Hcw«s' river, Harfifob county, state of
Virguii.i.
Fc-ur hundred acras, in Bald eagle town.
flup, Northußiberland coirnty, state of Psnnfylva.
N °' Jr, ii.Wf acre lr.t in the town of Rich,
mood, Virginia.
ALSO, AT PRIVATE SALE,
The following tra&s of Land.
6o,oooacre»of land in Washington ccunty 7 State of
174,; CO do. Montgomery jGeoriria
3T °ll j 0- °f aa g e! >«gh diftriA 7 3'utg ol
do. Charleflon ' J So. Car.
40,C0i do on the Alleghany river i State of
54,rp0 do. Weflmerelard county jn Pent)
41,900 do WytJic, Washington, §t*ta »(
and Grayfon counties j Virginia
20.000 de. in Bedford county
AH Which hi will fell on the moH
terms, and but very lit,l# money wiUit required
the remainder may lay upon trtfic l lt J
4 y< »r., faunty being had upon the lund»
60 Dollars Reward.
R A oVn A k fr ° mth,: {a " athe M«k
o December, i W7 ,a N gro Ma(l ab
l-tanloU,: ty thr- of Cato.he SMM. 9
? h, m - i4liEg wc:l P«r"t;oMed; h»
n*. a very coa.le voue, his ioi?e tith stand ierV
IV apar: ; th ? p e were one or two with bim-l
:annot nghtly def rd-e the rloaths he tQ ok v•'
for he took two cr three suits j hfhad on
wert away a pair of kerfcy trowfer., a
la -T,!? V £°J° Ure , d Co «.4'w!f worn wool
lat, he took withiim f, ur ver .. j ,
-xpea he has madl>o £ ey/
Mk S UP U d " £ S ro f "res him, f 0
hat .he owner nay g,t him ag.in. ft.all have rl e
above reward, p. id y r.is, j OHN MO ORE.
1 >v.«g lUStn; Kest county, ,V arylanj,
J*"?'' 'OtLwPROPOSALS
FOR \1
CARRYING THE PUBLIC MAILS t,,
on the following Post Roads -will be re-
ceived at the General Post Office until
the 14th day of Februnry next inclusive. ''
■ " I ar
PENNSTL V A NlAy&c. L.
I. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, Newcaf- an
tic, Cantwell's bridge, Duck creek, Dover, Fred
erica, Milford, Clough*, Dagfbort'Ujh, Trap,
Snowhill, Horntawn an«i Accomac court house to ha
Northampton court three times a week. r j<
' April ito November 15. Leave Philadelphia ev
try Taefday, Thursday and Saturday at 2 a m , and ry
errrite at Northamptoa court house on Ihirfday, to
Siturday and Monday at pm. Returnu%. Leave
Northampton court house every Friday, Mon -ay or
and Wedwcfiayjat 2a m, and arrive at Philadel- &
phia on Monday, Wednesday and Friday by 7 ) t
pm. ♦ 5
November IJ to April I. Leave Philadc!ph ; a ev
ery fucfd y, Thursday and Saturday at 6 a m, ar
and arrive at Northampton court house on Friday, i
, Monday and Wednesday by ?m. Returning— j at
Leave Northamoton court hoafe every Saturday,
TuefJay and Thursday at 6 am, and arrive at L)
Philadelphia on Wednesday, Friday and Monday at
by 7 r m, ri
VIRGINIA. I
From Northampton court house to Norfolk
thr*e timet a week. G
AfrH I to November IJ. Leave Northampton t0
court house every Monday, Wednesday and Fri
day at 8 pm, and arrive at Norfolk is 44 hours. r ;
Returning—Leave Norfolk every Wednesday, Fri- m
day and Monday a4a m, and arrive at Northamp- J ;
to 1 courthcufe in twenty four h »urs. j ry
N-vmber 1} to April X. Leave Northampton [,5
court house cveryTueGiay, Thursday and Saturday aI
at 3 a M, and arrive at Norfolk in £4 hour*.
toning—i.eave Norfolk every Monday, \v'„daei- j
aiy and FrkU •by 4 am, and arrive at Northamp- OI
Ct>n court house in 24 hours. |
PENNSYLVANIA 'd MARYLAND- \ al
3. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, New
port,Chrifti-ftia.Middletown,Warwick andGoerge- al
town cross roads to Chrfterftown three tiniesa week.
May Ito November I. Leave Philadelphia every a[
Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday by 9 t «, and ar
rive at Cheftertown the next days by 8p M. Re- a[
turning—Leave Cheftertown every Monday, Wed- R
neiday and Friday by 9r m, and arrive at Phila- ■ n ,
delphia the next days hy 8 p m.
November Ito May I. Leave Philadelphia eve- u
ry Mo»day and Friday by 9 a m, and arrive at;
Cheftertown on Tuesday ajd Saturday by 4 r m.
Returning— Leafve Cheftertown every Monday and M
Friday by 8a m, and arrive at Philadelphia on A
Tuesday and Saturday by 4 r m. Y
MARYLAND. L
4. From Cheftertown by Centerville, Eafton, a i
Newmarket, Vienna, Salilbury, Siiowhill and Prin- v
tefs Ann to Salifoury once a week.
Receive the mail at Cheftertown every Wednef f,
day at 7 AM, arrive at Eafton by 4P M. Leave h
faftoii onThurfday by 6a m, arrive at Snowhdl j_
on Friday by I p. m, and at Princels Awn by 6 r.
m. Returning— Leave Prince&Anp o«Saturday by a
10 am, arrive at Eafton the next diiy or Monday A
l>y 6pm Leave Eafton on I uefday by 8 a M,and c
arrive at Cheftertown fame day by 4 p «• n
5. From Harford by Br-l-Air tothe Blackhoife
once a week. b
Leave Harford every Tutfday by 10 a m, and j
arrive at Black korfe by 6p m. Returning—Leave a
Black horse on WeiJnifday by 6a m, and arrive at N
Harford the next Tuesday by 9 a m. a
pI i N <VS YL VJ NI A, MARYLAND and VIR- d
GINIA.
6. From Baltimore by Blackhorfe toYorktown }
Pa. once a v/eck. [
I.cave Baltimore every Friday by 4 p m, arrive
at Blackhosfe on Saturday by 10 a m, and arrive ,
a* Yorktovvo by 8 rm. Returning—Leave York- ]
town every Thursday by 7 am, and arrive at Bal- .
timore on Friday nooo. ]
7. From Yorktown by Hanover, Petersburg, ,
Ta.ieytoD ar.d Frtderfcktown to Leefburg once a :
week. ,
Leave Torktown every Monday at 8 A M.irtivc
at Fredericktown rn Tuifday by 5 r u, and arrive
at l.eeiburg on Wedccfday by %p u. Returning—
Leave Lcefburg every Friday at nooa, and arrive
. at Yorktown by 6p m on Sunday.
8. From Yorktown by
Fairfield, Eliiabethtowv, Martinf
burg, M'inchefter, Stevenfbdrg and Strafburg to
Wood'ftock once a week.
Leave Ycrktown every Sunday by noon, arrive
at Martiiilburg on Tuesday by 11 am. Leave
Martiniburg onTu«fday noon andarrive at Wood
ftock on Wedoefday by 6P m. Returning—'Last
WoodlVock on ThurfJay I>J 6 a m, arrive at Mar
tinfburg on Friday by II a m, andarrive at York
town on Sunday by 11 Am. *
9. From Pittiburg by Cannonfburg, Walhmg
ton. Weft Liberty and Wheeling to the moiuh of
Fiihiag creek once a week (contrast for one year
<> n 'y) ~ ,
Leave Pittfburg every Friday at 9 a m, and ar
rive at Fifliing crtek on Sunday at 9a m . Return
ir.g— LeaveJi'lhing creek on Wednesday at % a,m,
and arrive at t>ittlburgon Friday at 8 a m.
10. From Wafningtoo by Brownfvillc and Union
to Morgantown once a week.
Leave Union every Friday at 6 am, and arrivs
at Wafcington by 6 rm. Leave Washington on
Saturday at 6 a m, arrive at Morgantown on Sun
day at 6P M. Leave Morgantown on Monday at
8 am, andarrive at Union by 3 p m.
11. From Baltimore by Fredericktown, Eliza
bethtown, GreencaQlc and Chajnberfcurg to Ship
nenibui g once a wetk.
Leave Baltimore every Friday by II a m, arrive
at Frederichtown on Saturday by 10 a m, attli
labethtown ill the evening, and at Shippenfburg
oil Monday by 7 ' »■• Returning—Leave Shippent
burg every Tutfday at 0 a m, arrive at Elizabeth
town et 8 p m , at Frcderitktown on Wednesday
noon, and at Baltimore on Thursday by jm.
MARYLAND.
11. From Eliiabe- htown by Hancock and Old
town to Cumberland.once a week.
LeavtCumberland every Saturday by 6 a M,and
arrive at Elizabethtown on Monday by 8 a m.
Return!*"—#.eave Elizabethtown evcrv Monday by
10 a M,° and arrive at Cumberland on Tuesday by
6 pm.
I v From Baltimore to Annapolis once a week.
Li aveJJaltitr.ore every Monday at 8 a m, and
arrive at Annapolis by j rm. Reluming—Leeve
Annapolis every Tuesday at 8 a m, and arrive at
Baltimore by 5 r "•
14. From Baltimore by Annapolis, Que«n Ann*,
Marlborough,Pifcataway.Porttobacco, ■* 1-
ltn-fre(h, Newport arid Chaptico to Leonardtown
once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Friday at 10 a m, arrive
«t Anoapolis a: 5r m. Leave Annapolis on Sa
turday at 6 A m, arrive at Upper Marlborqugh
by noon,arrive atPifcataway by 6 p m. & arriveat
Leoaardtovrn entry Monday forenoon by 9o'clock.
Returning —Leave Leonardtown every Monday at 3
t m, arrive at Pifcataway on Tuesday by 6 p m
arrive at Upper Marlbmnugh on Wednesday by
11 A and arrive at Annapolis by 6 p m_. ' Leave
Annapoii* on Thursday by 7 a m, and arriveat
Baltimore by 3 ' *•
1 < Frotn Annapolis by Lower Marlborough,
Huntitigton and Calvert court house to St. Leon
ards n»<ce a w^ek-
Leave AnnapolU every Saturday at 9 a m, and
arriveat St. Leonards m hy 3p m. Rt
"turning— Leave St. Leonards every Monsby at 4
r u an J arrive at Annapolis the next Saturday tfy
6 AM.
;6. Prambjr Ups Marlborough,
Not hi 'ham. Lo-ver \f Acq ijfc -.nen I
n.dia and Olwrt-.' Aehall to once a week.
l.eavc Bladenfbur- very .iturday at 9 a M.ar- K...
rive at Upper MarlWou,;:. by noonani at Lower j.
\larlhor.Kighoo MoiiJuy by 5 p &at cha P tlco
bv 6r M. Returning— LiareChapticoevery I hml- <
day at 6 A m, and arrive at BUJenlburgoo Satur-
'iay at 6 a m, \
17. From Georgetown by Montgomery co
house to Frrdericktown once a week.
Leave Georgetown every Friday by 6 A m. an (
arrive at Fredericktown by 6 Pm ■ Returning—
Lrave F»edericktown every I 'nurfday 9y 5 am,
and arrive at Georgetown by 6 m. eve
VIRGINIA. . da'
18. From WoodtVick by Newmarket, A
hi-n court hodfe, Staunton. Lexington and Fiucal- 1 n
tie to Biff Lick once a week.
Leave Woodftock every Thursday by 6a m, ar- 5,
rive at Staunton 011 Friday at Ir m. I-rave Staun- I
ton every Friday at 2 rm, arrive at 15'g Lick on 10.
Sundiy by 11 a m Returning—Leave Big Lick
on Sunday fey Ip m, arrive at Staunton every rue - ,
dayby H a m. Leave Stauntom by MO dock be
)uoon) and arrive at Woodftock on Wednesday by
5 \l From Big Lick by Montgomery court house
and Wythe court house to Abingdon once a week.
Leave Big Lick every Sunday at I p m, arrive
| a t Wythe court houf: on Tuefiay by ap m, and at p s
Abingdon on Wednesday by 6ru Retarmng;— tQ
Lrava Abingdon every ThurfJay by 6 a to, arrive
at Wythe court house on Fridayhy % pm, ana ar- g.
rive at Big Lick on Sunday by II a m. toi
■Tit \'NESX£E. or
ao. From Ab.ugdon, Vir. by Jonciborough
Greenville,Moffat's store audjefferfon court houle to
to Knoxvilie once a week.
Leave Abingdon every Thursday by 6a m, ar- m
rive-at Moffuts store on Saturday by 8a m. Leave Lc
Moffits by 9a m, and arrive at Knoxvilie on Sun- r»
day by 10 a m. Returning—Leave Knoxvilie eve
ry Sunday by %'v m, arrive at Moffatson Monday
by }t m. Leava Moffats on Monday at 4r m,
and arrive at Abingdon on Wednesday by 7P m. ' v
VIRGINIA. p
ai. From Wincheftcr by Romney to Moorfields
; once a week. O
Leave every Thursday at 6a m, and to
i arrive at Moorfield «n Friday by 6 PM. Return- c ,
ing—Leave Moorficld every Saturday at 8 a M,and f rl
arriveat Winchester on Sunday bj 6 P M. w
From Alexandria by Centerville, Leeiburg
and Shepherdftown to Martinfbnrg once a week. \\
Leave Alexandria every Wednesday at 9 a m, V\
and arrive at Martiniburg on Friday by 10 am. P
Returning—'Leave Martiniburg every Friday by C
; noon & arrive at Alexandria on Monday by 7a m C
23. From FroierickfDburg by Port Royal, Lay- <"
tans, Tappahannock, Urbanna and Gloucelier court
: ho«fe to Yorktown once a week.
Leave Frederickfburg every Wednesday at 6 a
m, arrive at Tappahannock on Thursday by 11
am. Leave Tappahannock at noon and arrive at
Yorktown on Saturday by ham. Returning w
Leave Yorktown every Saturday at 1 P M, arrive
atJTappahannoCk die next Monday noon and arrive a|
at Fredericklkurg on l'uefday by 5 PM- L
14. From Tappahannock by Richmond court ai
house, Wellmoreland court house, Kinfale, Farn
ham church and Northumberland ciptt houle ro fc
Lancaster court house once a_week' ti
Leave Tappahannock every Thursday noon and
arrive at Lancaster court house on Saturday by n "
am. Returning—LeaveLaneafter Court house av- S
ery Saturday, by 1 PM. and arrive at Tappahan- '«
nosk on Monday by 11 a m. ,
Ij. From Frederickiburg by Culpeper. court
house &Orangec: h." to Charlotufvilleonce a week.
Leave Frederickfburg every Tuesday at 10 a m,
and arrive at Chariottefvilleon Thursday by 1i a
m. Returning—Leave Charlottefvifle on Saturday
at 8 PM, and arrive at Fredijrickiburg <ln Tuef- a
day by 6 a m.
26. Frtin Richmond by Goochland court- a
htMife Columbia and Charlottefville to Staunton j
once a week. 1 ' 1 ' './J _J
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at Mj ar
rive at Cliirlottefville on Thursday by 11 AM. '
Leave Charloitefville by noon and arrive at <
Staunton on Friday by 11 am. Returning
Leave Staunton oa Saturday by 6A M, arrive at ]
1 Charlottefville by 7P M, and arrive at Rich- ,
mond the next Tuesday by 9 A M. i
ij. From Staunton by BatH court-bouse and
[ Sweet Springs to Greenbrier coart-houfe once a ;
] week. - 1
Leave Stiunton ever) Saturday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Gieenbrier court-houle on Tuesday by
6 pm. Returning—Leave Greeabncr court- '
lioufeevery Monday by 9 AM, and arrive at
5 Staunton on Thursday by 8 e M.
18. From Charlottefvile by Warren, War
e minster, New-Market, Amherft court houfej
e Catrelliburg, and Maddifonto Lynchburg ouce
- week.
e Leave Charlottefville every Thursday at 1 *
- M. ar d arrive "at Lynchburg on Saturday at 6
- p M. Returning—Leave Lyndhburg every
Tuesday by 6 A m, and arrive at Charlottefvill'e
- 011 Thursday by le AM.
'f 19. From Richmond by Hanovertown, Ay
'r letts and Todds to Tappahannock once a week
or if carried in stages as often a» they shall run.
Leave Richmond every Wednesday at 5 A M,
arrive at Todds at 3 P M, and at Tappahannock
'• on Thursday at 11 A m. Returning—Leave
Tappahannock on Monday it 1 P M, and ar
n rive at Richmond on Tuesday.by 5 PM.
r4 30. From Richmond by Hopkins's, Powha
° tan court house, Cumberland court house, Prince
t _ Edward court house and Lynchburg to New
lt London, once a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 8 A M,
t . arriveat Prince Edward on Wednesday at 6P |
j. m, and arrive at Lynchburg on Friday at BAM, j
and at New-London by 10 AM. Returning— 1
re Leave New-London every Friday at a P M, ar
i- rive at Lynchburg by 5 P m, arrive at Prince
g Edward on Saturday by 7 P M,' and arrive at
f- Richmond on Monday by 4 P M.
31. From New-London by Liberty to Fincaf
'y tie once a week.
Leave New London every Friday at I P M,
and arrive atFincattle on Saturday by 6 p m.
d- Returning—Leave Ficcaftle on Monday at, 5 A
M, and arrive at New London on Tuesday noon.
3». From Liberty by Rocky Mount to Mar
tinville once in two weeks.
J Leave Liberty every other Saturday at 6 A
' M, and arrive at Martinvillc op Sunday by 6 p
M. Leave Martinville on Monchay by 6 A H,
n j and arriveat Liberty on Tuefcfciyby 6 pm.
ve 3-3- F rom Princs Edward court house by
at Charlotte court house to Halifax court houfc
once a week.
n . Leave Prince F.dwar-'court houfeeveryThurf
.l- day at 6A M, and arrive at Halifax court house !
fin on Friday at 10 AM. Returning—Leave Hal
ifax court house onFridayby a P M, and ar
ive rive at Prince Edward court house on Saturday
>a- by 6P M.
gh 1 VJKQINIA anJNOR XH-CAROLINA.
'at I 34. From H ihfax cflurl-houle by Hslilax old town,
:k. Caneis, Mjrtinvillr, Patii-.k eourt-houfe, Upper Sau
t ? ra, Grrmantown and BcthanialoSalem once in two
M weeks.
by Leave Halilax court-house every other Friday at
, ve 3, P M, and arriveat Salem the next Monday bv 6,
at PM. Returning—LeaveSaiein every other Tuelday
at 6, A M, and urive at Halifaxcouit-houfe 011 Fri
dayby 10, A M.
1 ' 25. Fiora Hairit'sbyHickea'sford to Halifaxtwice
a week.
Leave Harris's every Wednesday and Saturday by
5, AM. and arrive at Halifax hy 6, P M. Return-
in^—leave Halifax evciy Thursday and Suitday by 6,
; 4 AM, and arrive at Harris's by*7, P. M.
VIRGINIA.
36. From Smi'hfield by Southzmrtoo conrt-Voufe
to
Lfeave Hi. kl't Md Friday by
anrl arrive at Smi:-nlieM on Sjiu»d»y, Y 5 .' , t f
ltc . urn ,a ! r_|.«veS nithfield cv«y «*her J.md.y 0/ trot
Z A M, and arrive *t
2 ' / 7 M F«,Goldfon. by C-etbridge, St. »
MeckM-erg »d Lu«nb.r S cou-t-houfes and td
mu nd» (lore>o GoldlW. neea weck. , . '
LeaV--GoJdfoV.f*«nr Wednefday.i.o, AM. and t,
re:..rp .l-enexl by «, P M, wa».»g at eacn „ „
Poll-OfSee 2 hour, after delivery of (he n^'l . for
VIUGWbA d N'J<TH-C, 4ROLINa. 7V u
08. From SuffotKby £den'on,P;ymn.,Lh and Wa- u , h
(Kington to Ncwbew, oncea Leave .Sutfol t
every Monday at no-n, arrive at 1 uef- aU
dav at 1 FM, at Plymouth, on Wednrfd.y by > c fe,
A M rn by6, PM, and a,
TnnrWavby 5 , P M. Reiumm?—L«»e 'Jewbe.n
cvcrv Friday bv 6, AM, arrive at Walhmgtoo by ;
~ PM . Arrive at Plymouth on Saturday by 4
P M, a. Edtnton on Sunday by 9, A Nl, audatSuf-
foik on Monday by 9. A M.
NORTH CAROLINA.
\ , q F r«mEdentonbyHeitfo.-d, N.xonto-, El.aa- j
betn city, and Jorielburg to Indian-iowo, once,
W "«ve Edenton every WedneM.y bv r, P *. an d
arrive at Indian-to»n on Thu fjlay by 6, P M. Hj
turnina —Leave Indiaotown everyl ue.day b) 5, AM,
and arrive at Edeilton 00 Wedncfday at u, A M * f
40. from Halifax by Northampton
Princeton, Murfreelboroogh, W.n.ou and Wmdfo.
to Edeutou, ontc ® weelc.
Leave Halifa*every Monday at 9, AM and arrive _
at Edenton on Weanefdav by 3, P M, lel " J |;f
tonon Wednefd y,by 6, PM, a-td arrive at Hal.lax
on Saturday by 11, AM ms
41. From Hfchfax byScoOand, Hogton, WtlUamr.
ton and Daily's to Plymouth, on« a week. Leave
Halifax every Monday at AM, .nd arrive at Ply
mouth on Wednesday by to, A M. Returning
Leave Piymoutb on Wedoefday at «, P M, and ar-
rive-at Halifax on Friday at 10, AM.
4 a. From Halifax by Ta.boro' and Greenville to
Waihington onee a week- . Be
Leave Halifa* e»ery Monday at 10, A M, andar- C(
rive at Waihington on Wednesday by 10 A M Ke-
turning—Leave Waihington every Wednelday at a,
P M, and arrive « Halifax on Friday at 10, A M.
43. From Halifax by Wanenton.W illiamlboro.ugh,
Oxford, Hilllborough, Martin\ille, Salem, Lexing
ton, Salilbary and Statefville to Charlotte and """J
Charlotte by Cabirras court-bouse to Salilbury, aud
from thence by the fame route to Halifax, once a Li
week.
Leave Halifax every Monday at 9; A M, arrive at C(
Wairemon by 7, P M, arrive at Hilllborough on Sil
Wcdneldav at 4, P M, at Salem on Friday by 5, D,
P M, at Salilbury on Saturday at 4, P M, and at gj,
Charlotte on Monday by 6, AM. Rcturning-leave Bl
Charlotte on Monday at 10, A M, arrive at Salilbury
on Tuelday by 10, A M, arrive at Salem i,on Wed- tQ
nelday at 9, A M, at Hilllborough on Friday by 9,
AM, at Warremonon Saturday at 7, PM, and at _
Halifax «r» Monday at. 6, AM ..or
44. From Hilllborough by Mount Tirzah, Perlon
court-house, Leatburg, Cafwell Court-house and Koc
kingham court-house to Germantown once in two
Leave Hilllborough every otherThurfday at 6, A 2, _
and arrive at Germantown On Saturday at 4, P. J
Leave Germantown every other Sunday at 6, A, M,
and anive at Hillfborough on Tuesday at PM«
45. From Salem, by Be hania, Rocn
ford, Wilkes, Morga'ntoh and Ratheffordton to Spar
tanburg in S. C. once in two weeks. 1
Leave Salem evCiy other Saturday at 5 a m, and ar- J J
rive at Spartanburg on W,ednef4ay at 5 pm. Leave
every other Thurlday at 7a m, and ar- j
live at Salem Monday at 6 p m.
46. From Louifburg by Na(h court-house to Tar-
borough once a week. f,
Leave Tar borough every Friday by 0 a m, and ar-
rive at Louifbmg by 6 pm. Acturning—Leave Louu
burg every Saturday by 6 a m, and arrive at larbo-
rough b„v 6 r m . .
41. Prom Raleigh by Smithfield, Waynefboroagh, r
' and Kirgllon to Newbern, once in two weeks. t
Leave every other Tuelday by 8 a m, and
■ arrive at Nevvfcern the next Friday by 10 a m. c
1 Returning—-Leave Newborn every other Friday by a
r m. and arrive at Raleigh on Monday by 6 e m- \
43. From Raleight-fLnapenim m
. and from Hilllbowugh by Chapel hill and Chatham
t courl-houfe to Raleigh, once a week. To wait two
hours at Chatham court-house.
Leave Raleigh every Tuesday by 6 a m, andar
rive at Hilllborough by 6 pm. Reluming—Uivc
' Hilllborough every Wednesday by 8a m, and arrive
at Raleigh on Thursday by 10 A M.
1 40. From FayettevHleby Ehzabethtown, Belletort
1 and Springfield to Wilmington, and Irom Wilming
ton by S. Waihington, Saretlo and Sampion court
house to Fayetteville, once a week.
\ Leave Fayetteville every Tuesday at 6a m, and
arrive at Wilmington on Thursday at 10 a. m. Ke
" turning—Leave Wilmington every Thurlday I )*«,
and arrive Fayettevil'c on Sunday by 5p m.
50. From Fayetteville by Alfordion and Randolph
■- co.rt-houfe to Salilbury, andfrfim Salilbury by Mont
> gomery court-houf«, Anfon ccyrt-houfe and Rich
c mond court-house to Fayetteville, once a week.
Leave Fayetteville every Saturday at 6 a m, and
j* arri\e at Salilbury on Tuesday by 9 a m, Leave Sa
-6 lilbury every Tuesday nosn and arrive at Fayetteville
v on Friday by 6p m.
l 51. From Newbern by Tcenion and Richland to
e Wilmington once a week.
Leave Newborn every Friday at to a m, and arrive
r " at Wilmington on Sunday by 6p. m. Leave Wil
k mington every at 10 am, and arrive at New
i« bern on Thursday by 6p m.
1, SOUTH & NORTH CAROLINA,
k 52. From Camden by Lancaster court-house, Char
re lotae and Lincolnlon to Staterville, once in two
r- weeks.
Leave Camden every other Monday at 6 a m, ar
rive at Statefville on Thursday by 6 r M Leave Statef
villt every other Friday by 2 p m, and arrive at Cam
"e den on Monday by 6p. m.
v " SOUTH-CAROLINA,
53* From Columbia by Winnfboipugh, Cheller
1> court-house, Pinckneyville, Spartanburg and
P | Greenville court-house to Pickotifville, and
1, \ trom Pickcnfville by Laurens court-house and New
— | bury court-house to Columbia, once a week : waiting
r„ one hour at each pod-office on the route#
• e Leave Columbia every Monday at 9 a m, arrive at
t Spartanburg every WedaeCday by 3 p m, arrive at
Pickeofville on Thursday at4P m, arrive at Laurens
couruhoufe Friday at 4P m, and at on
Sunday by 6 pm.
5 1 4. From .Columbia by Orangeburg to Charlcfton,
once a weeki
vi. Leave Colombia Monday at io-a m. and ar-
A rive at Charlelton on Thursday at 10 am. Returning
(1# —Leave Charleflon every Thursday at %p m, and ar
rive at Columbia on Sunday at neon.
SOUTH-CAROLINA O 5 GEORGIA.
55• rom Edgefield court-house by Cambiidge,
Abbevilleco«rt-houfe, Pendleton court-house, Hat
p tonsford, Franklin (ourt-lioufe, E bcrton and Peters
burg to WaHiingtOn, and from by Pe
tersburg and Cambridge to Edgefield court-bouse,
by once a week.
tie Leave Edgefield coart-houfe every Fiiday byß aw,
arrive at Pendleton court-house on Sunday by 9 am
rf- arriWe at Franklin couit-houfe by 7pm, at Petersburg
t f c on Tuesday by 10 am, and at Waihington by 5 p
a j m. Leave Washington cveiy Wednesday at 6a m,
at Camb idge on Thursday by 10 a m, and at Edgc
lr~ field court-house by 7p m .
;a y From Augulla by Waihington, Greenfburg and
Lexington tv Georgetown, once a week.
Leave Augusta every Monday at pm, arrive at
Wathington on Tueidav by 5 PM, and arrive at
au - Georgetown on T-burfdav by 7r m. Returning—
wo Leave Georgetown every Friday at 6a m, andariive
at Augitfta by noon on Monday.
r3l * 57- From Gardens Corner to Beaufort oncea wrek.
6» Leave Beaufort every Thurfdav at 2p m, and anive
-ay a; Gaidens Corner by 8 pm. Returning—Leave Gar.
de«.» Corner every Thurlday at 5 a m, and arrive at
Beaufort by »o -A. m.
Note I. Tbi Pojl Nlafter General may alter the time*
by °f a rrivalQnS departure at any time during the continuance
rn- °f the contrails, le f>rrvi&ujly Jlipulating an adequate com
-16, t pfotjan ftr any *xtra expense that may be ouajioned there
b-,
Note 2. liulf an Lour JLitU be allowed for opening
,use find cUfmgtle Mail at alt »jjics where no particular tune
» is ftec ifitJ.
Ss a.,
o,
a trip, 0.1 additional forfeiture ojjive WW jm* w,
what fun, be carry it noith that emolument and for
y>-
' "rfr -
&«&x -«< - *—<• b «r -j
'"2 L 6 W« moling proftfal, are desired t. JUte psri
their price, in grof, h tie year, W«« if the mile. gan
Th.pLboco,tn,ci nviU receive their fay ,n re f F
the 'mo-tb< of Jamtarv, Afrit, Julyan,l OShter, ,« M„
draft, on the ftH of.ee, «. the route and in ban, note . jedt
Note 7 The contraSl, are to he w operation on the frfi te „
day ./ Afri! next, anl continue for four year,, until m,l
I 2 3 ,y? day of March inch,five, in the year iSol. thai
JOSEPH HABERSHAM, of i
Port-Matter General. w *
GtN«*AL Post OrriCE, 7 cas
Philadelphia, Decern!* 18, 1791> J t||th^t , 4thP
: —-WSTRECEIVEB, Y<
(via New-York)
and now opening, by rh
George Dobson, No
No. 2J, south Third street,
An extensive and general assortment of Nc;
haberdashery, viz. 1
Bed London mixt Pum GiUoons and rerms
Common do. do. Worsted Bmdtnga, affor-
Makenzie'sfuper,patent ted colours i
white chapel Needles Imperial, diaper, and of
Nuns Thriad no. 6to Thr "<J T apeS
ao regularly affortcd White Edging. w
Lisle do.no. IJO to .500, Blacked coloured Chi-
regularly assorted nefe Ribbands
P . ,i 0 Sattm and figured do. '7
Black sewing Silks Black Velvet, 1-4 tolid 1
Coloured do. and Twill Velvet &pelon Saturn B.
Silk and cottcjn Wires French Cambnck 1'
Do. do. Ribbands Scotch do. or
Shirt Moulds and Wires .Plain gilt and ptated tic
Black brulh Feathers Buttons Ar
And a compleat aflortment of Goods, Tunable p t
to the prelent and approaching season, at reduced
priccf Dec. 6. <*tf ve
Tin Plates, £
FOR SALE BY C
SIMON WALKER, _
Pine, near Fifth fttecr.
■ Miifical In/irument Manufactory y
' 167, Arcb-flreet.
TO THE LOWERS OF HARMONY. A
harper, 9
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has
now ready for ("ale, a few of his new invented,
5 and much admifed fide board Piano Fortes, v/ith
Pedals,patent swell, fonopahant and French harp ■
stop, which for sensibility of touch, brilliancy ot
tone, simplicity and durability of conftrutftion, the O
fsperiority of which ,he flatters himfelf, a single tu
al will convince the unprejudiced judge—As they
are manufactured under his immediate inlpe «t 10 n,
of the very be?, seasoned materials, he can fell .011
reasonable terms forCASH. Instruments repaired, g
tuned, &c. p
i N. B. Second hand Piano Fortes taken in ex-
. change for new.
a navemher 18. tawamo. p
1 ARE NOW OPEKINO, I
° At th.ir Warehouse, No. 47, Dock Street, a frelh (
assortment of Woolen and other goods, suitable to I
e the season, tcceived by the late arrivals from Eng- f
e land. J
They have also far Sale, (
rt Lisbon -
;- "1 eneriffe ( j pipes,hhds. and quarter calks
t- Sherry, and ( ' r '
Port Wines, J
d hfforted queen's ware in crates, &c. ,
loth mo- qyf. diwgtawjw.
City of Waihington. i
t SCHEME '
Of the Lottery No. 11,
d for the Improvement of the Federal City.
Amagnificentdwclling-hoiile aoiooo dollars,
le & cash 30,000, are 50,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cast »5,008 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 fit ca(h 15,000 30,000
, e 1 ditto 10,000 & cadi 10,000 »0,000
I. 1 ditto 5,000 & ca(h 5,00q xo,ooo
1 ditto 5,000 &c ca!b 5,000 10,000
1 talh prize of 10,000
» do. 5,000 each,are* • 10,000
r- JO do. IjOOG * • lO,OQC
ro to do. 500 • • 1 o^ooo
00 do. i°o - - 10,000
If, »oo do. 50 10,000
4®o do. »5 * 10,000
1,000 do. 20 • ao,ooo
15,000 do. 10 • 150,000
er
id 16,7.39 Prizes.
ld 33,»6i Blanks.
"8 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,00®
N. B. Tofavour those whe may take a quan-
, d )s tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dojiars will be
on the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but oNi -.
, n And approved notes, securing payment in either
mousy or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
»r- be received for any number not lefsthan 30 titlt
■ng ets.
ar- This Lottery will afford an elegant fpecimenef
the private buildings to be ere<Sea in the City »f
Waihington—Two beautiful designs are already
;e, lele\sled for the «ntire fronts on two of the public
at-i squares; from these drawings it is prcpafed to ere<9
:rf two centre and 'our corner buildings.as fconaspof-
Pe- fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey thenv,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel
K ' Lottery. A n-tt dedudlicn <»f five percent, will
i,vl be made to tkfray the necefliiry expenses of print
urS ing, <V". and the surplus will be made a part of
® P the fund intended for rfie National Univeriifty, to
' be erecled within the city of Waihington.
The real fecuritiesffiven for the payment of the
and r ' ze, i are held by tie Prefidervt and two Direit
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are vrdued at
eat more than half the amount ot the lottery.
at SAMUEL JiLOJDGET.
r— „§, Tickets may be had at the Bank o! Colsm
ive liia ;il .Jamtts Well & Co. Baltimore ; of Feter
Gilman, .Tifton : of John Hopkins, Richmsnd
ck. -god ijf \T•t)*, r*wwrt-Vfwly. nw
;"rl Samuel Fleafants y Sons,
e " No. 74, South Second-Jlrcct,
HAVE received a lupply of Seafonahje GOODS,
which they are now opening for lale, on
"'nee r cafnnahle terms. Oil 27. —4W
\Te. Alphabetical Lift of Duties,
Payable by liw on all Goods, Wares, and Mcr
ninv cbancizs. imported into the United St3tes—lateft
tune edition, to be fold by JOHN no* 4*»
Ch«fnuL-ftrcct. Dec. 16 —d
This Day Publifl.ed,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, tortwr of
Second and Chefnut ftrevts,
Price 3-Btbs of a Dollar,
Observations on certain Documents
Contained ia No. V and VT of
« The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the CH ARGE OF SreCCLATION apainft
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secuztary of the Treasury, it FULI V
REFUTED.
tFR I T TEN Br himself.
Th'B publication presents a ooncife statement
of the base means pra&ifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the charade™ of thofc
p*rfons who are considered as hoflile to their (Jifor
ganizmg schemes. It also contaios the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton, and Messrs
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venable, onthefub
je<S of the documents aforefaid, and iferies cf let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the pofiibHity of a doubt,
that the connedion between him and Reynolds'
was the result of a daring conspiracy on the part
of the latter and his associates to extort money.
tf'J" A dil'count of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor ot wholesale purchafcrs, for
casu. Orders to be addressed to Mr. Yoont.
Auvuß 25.
Yellow i-ever and Peftilentiaf
Diseases.
THIS DAY IS PUB-LISHED, in one vol. o&avo.
By William Young, Bookseller,
No. 5 2, Second ftrect, the cornei* of Chefnut lircct,
(P' ice, in boards .8712 Cents)
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
A V lEW
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles eftablifiied in ths demerits
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BRO WN, M. D.
, YV ith an atteraapt to corredt some important er
rors of th-at work, and cases in illuflration, chief
ly felefled from the records of their pnflice, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br William Tatix & Chas. Maclean.
To which is fubjained, a Treatifie on the adion
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
i tion for the cure of diseases of indired debility.
I Andadifiertahon onthe fourcos of Epidemicand,
| Ptftilentialdifaafes; in wbichisattemptedtoprove
by a numerous induflion of fads, mat they lie
ver arise from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain slate?, or certain viciflitudes of
the atmosphere, by Charles Maclean, of
Calcutta.
Nov. it. s l2t
FOR SALE, dj '
Joseph Anthony fsf Co,
No. 5, Chefout Street,
A cargo of choice Eourdeaux Btasdy, ift and Jd
proof, just landed
250 bales of Bourbon cotton of afuperior quality
9 do. Surat, do do
A quantity of heavy black pepptr ia bales
Bourbon Indigo of the firtt quality
High proof Jamaica (pints
Old London particular Madeira wine ? In pipes &
do. market do Cqr. caiks.
New England rum in hogflieads
I Genuine Holland Gin in pipes
Claret in cases
' Spetmaceti candles and ftrain'd oil
Prime Boston beef
Choice Halifax Salmon in barrels and half barrels
Do. Herring in do do
_ Best Boston Mackarel in barrels of the fall fare.
New-England tow !«<n
IgWLW.a in n-uma ..wugg -- ~ : ~..
R itflia feather beds
h Clover and Timothy feed in ;aiks
0 Long whale-bone
So 1, 1, and 3, Boflon fail duck
A lew thefts fill! quality Hylon tea
Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and
An invoice of Dutch hollow glass ware.
November 8. djw.
This day is Publilhed,
At the Qfiftce of the Aurora, No. 112, Market Street,
[Price one dollar a&d a haJf,]
.A view of the conduct of the EXECUTIVE in the
FOREIGN AFFAIRS of the United Statss, conne&-
ed with the Miflion to the French Republic during
the years, 1794, 5, 6,
BY JAMES MONROE,
Late Minister Plenspotentiarv to the said Republic
Illustrated by his INSTRUCTIONS and COR-
s * RESPONDENCE and other authentic document*;
A very liberal allowance to those who bny to fell
50 again.
>0 December 23. *6t.
30 School Books and Stationary.
'0 W. YOUN G,
r>o No. Ki, Second-Qreet, corner,of Chefnut-ftreet,
00 TTAS now ready for sale, a very large alfort
qC XX ment of Englijh, French, Latin and Greek
00 SCHOOL BOOKS. A Ift, fiich elementary books
00 on Science, as are generally read in the academies
00 and colleges throughout the United States.
00 " LATELY Ml BUSSED,
0(l Sheridan's Di&ionary, the sixth edition, in one
" large vol. Bvo price 3 dols.
' Ditto, large 11 nio price .1 dol 75 «ts.
Ditto, common, price 1 dol. 50 cts.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing' Paper ? Bookbinder's Boards, Pasteboards,
fheathiag and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
08 blank Books, Wax, Wifors, and other articles, «f
the best quality, used in tfcc counting house, or
IC " public oftice
be Catalogues of a mifcellancous collection ot
• ST BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be bad
by inquiring as above. 06t.,24- w6w
LAW BOOKS,
sk- Latest London and Dublin Editions.
, Gf H. yP. RICE, Bookseller s,
'»f No. 16, South Second, and No. jo.Maiket ilreet,
idy TT T AVE just received by the iate arrivals Irom
•lie XX London and Dublin, their fprir.g import^.
e a tion, confiftmgsf a variety of, the lauft ar.d most
of apps* ved I .aw Books, which, added to U ofe alrea
' * dy on hand, formsthe moftexteuiive colledtionev.
; B erofferedfor sale in this couatry. 1 hey theiofcra
utel beg leave to notice, that lfo;n the r.stitre of thar
W ,U cwineaicnsin Dulrliu, they are enabled to V'lllriib,
j ßt - editions (as they have hitherto don?) at the very
tof lowed prices. The following are among the latcU
to publications.
' Vefey, jun'ri Reports in Chancery, 1
the Peake'« Cales at Niii Prius ; Ridgeway's Refortt
e£t- "ia tl c time of Lard H»rdwick« ; Floyer's Procters
Jat Practice in the Hcclrfl.ifucal Courts; Bartons
Treatise on a in E s uiiy ; Tidd's Prac'ticeof
the Court of K.iivj's Bench in Personal Ail.ons »
, m . parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruifc
e ter oji Uses ; modern Reports, l» vols. London cdi
tloH. and P. Ric t expefi t» receive by the fir ft ar
— rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Dui 11 ford and Haft's R- j orts, tl.eidpartof Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number ot
D 5 new publications.
, on' ) unc 16 • ——7T%
kV _ . Wanted, to hire,
A J' ar K e an ' convenient HOUSE, in or near
1 /y thecentreo! the city—for svhich a generous
r«m w»%i given; to be taken for a year, or on
.t more for a longer terna. Inquire of tb^Prm'fr.
f* Oct. 17. to "