"'rS ; » 0
Unites —Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
*
Rv foHN Ward Fenno, N°* no Cbe[nut Street.
Isvmbeh 1919.3
" C?" The -price of this Gazette is
Eight dollars per annum to Subfcri
bsrs refilling in the city of Pbiladel- '
phia. All others pay one dollar ad- *
diUonalt-fur enclojing and direfting; J
and unless fomeperfon in this city will r "
become answerable for the fubfcrip
'thn, it must be paid Six Months in
advance. |
Tor 9ALE or CHARTER, *
THE SHIP
M ° L L Y '
jSV Burthen 4-2 CO barrels of Flour,
ffuwtgPhiladelphia built, well found
fitted, and may be ready
to receive a cargo in a few daye—(he is pierced
1 g gun*, and mounts 12 lie* fix pounders, with
small arms in proportion. J
» THE SHIP U
D I A N A,. ■
Burthen 2,100 barrels of Flour,
Philadelphia built of live oak
"and c«dar, i» pierced for four
teen puns, rnd mounts ten ne* four pounders,
with in:all arras in proportion.
THE BRIG A
AMAZON, A
Burthen 1,300 barrels of Flour,
built, has lately
been completely fitted, and may be ready forfea
in a few days.
For terms apply to
NIC Kim £3* GRIFFITH.
Who have for Sale j
Oil boatdfuntlry vc/fel* at M/sßcvt-Hoo*. , £
M.ooo buihrf»of Liverpool fine fatt
1,100 bulhels of coals w
356 crates ef qu4ens wate affbße€
7 tierces of bottled porter
10 barrels of coleothard paint
4 do. of purple brown do.
a quantity ofyellnw ocre in calks
6 barrels pondered Venetian red paint
6 birrels mineral black do.
15 barreb SpaniOi brown do.
35 boxes of pipes
9 i boxes white ) HAVANA SUGARS -
89 do. brown j
j,jotolb». ptime cochineal
$ barrels New Orleans indigo
4 puncheons Jamaica spirits
ao biles of fail canvjfs ft
379 (heets of copper, asserted from 48 by 24 q
to 60 by 48 inches 1 C
Tw<J tubs riifed still bottoms alTorted L
36 fix poilrtd guxs 44 feet, B£ewt each g
14 do. 4 feet, Kwt and 4lb» each q
JO barrels of gun powder
6 cases Mtmcheller cotton chscks
3 trunks mulUii* and (hawls
14 cases muflinets, dimities and g'fnghams
18 chefls coloured nankeens, mufti nets, &c. <
I* trunks pointed calicoes «
6 bales of whits and coloured caffimeres d
1 WW *>f woollens
'JSnglifh nails affined.
Oflober27. fri.&rat. tf.
For Sale.
THE SußSCßtasii, intending to decline the
DRUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the
-whole Stbck of
Drugs and Medicines, Instruments, 8(1. <
The (hop is elegant, commodious, and fulßci- J
ently known for the exterffive hufinefs Gone in the j,
tvholefale and retail line ; the situation «qnal to [
any in the city, being at the coiner of Walnut and ,
Seaond ftrcets. The whole, or any par- of th? ;
sock, will be fold, as will belt suit the putchafer.
Thu terms may be krr<s'#n, by applying to
james moore, jdn.
IVlo has For Sale,
Well calculated lor the rimer trade—
The Peggy, about 30 tons burthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, ami remarkably '
stout, of an easy draught ef water, rigging in
good order.
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails ;
well, and incomplete order for the lumbar bufmefs.
All persons indebted to she law firm <d
Goldtbiuait & Baldwin, IV. B Goldth-waft, Golu- <
tfpvait & Moore, o9 the fub'fcribtr; are earrieftly
requcftcd ce make fpeedjr payment to
JAMES MOORE, jon.
august 3
Ship Brokers. j
This Ellablilhmcnt, commenced by the late Mr. ,
:S*aiuol Smith, will be continned by
Row & Simmons,
WHO refpe&fully acquaint the Merchants,
Traders, and Mailers of vessels; that ne
»r exertions (hall be wanting to give general
fatisfafliou. This bufmefs will be condu&ed at their
Bt»re, No. l 07, South Water Street, near to the
• Custom House.
O&ober 17 dtf
For Sale, or Charter,
THE DANISH BKK3
NOW lying at Burlington,a ve
ry fail filler. —For teimtappyto
JACOB SHOEMAKER.
WHO HAS ion SALE, >
Her cargo, of about 2,000 bushels of
St. Martin's Salt.
10 mo. "98 <Uot.
Wanted to Charter,
F qr BALTIMORE,
A Small Vessel,
1 KROM four to five hundred barrels
tfhrden. I'ETER BLIGHT.
Whose Counting House
has opened, as usual, this day.
mov« dlv/
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 1798.
For Sale, cr Charter.
THE SHIP ,
NEPTUNE, j
. BURTHEN abcit two hundred tons, (
coppered, andiafood order for a Well-
Indit voyage. She mounts li four pounders, fails Ro
remarkably w«U->- Pai
ALSO
fourteen 6 ponn- Bo
ders, copp.red and fails remarkably faft—buuhen Co
about I coo barrels. Gu
Foa TiaMS APPLY TO I "
JVilliugs & Francis.
Penn Street.
norember 9 £a:
For London,
THI SHIP
Captain Daniel M'Puerson,
ILL be ready to take her car
go on board by the I jth inft.—For terms apply to Fl
Rofs £s* Simfon.
WHO HAVE FOR SALE,
Superior TenerilFe Wine, *3
In quarter cases 2
Bengal Sugar, firft quality, in boxes and bag*.
A few bales of Mullins. a
Rice in Tierces, %
And a small cargo of St. Martin's SALT.
ndvember 9 dtf
Tor Sale or Charter, ]
TUB ship, A
COMMERCE,
Joh" ma/ftr. _
This (hip is burthen as ptrre«iflerj»3o T 6 -"-
will be fold o» moderate terms or take freight
for Europe 01 the Well-Indies. (
Applv to the Captain on board at Latimer s>
Wharf/or mLUNGS & FRANCIS.
FOR SALE, C
On board /aid Ship,
16 Tons of Liverpool house Goal.
nov 9 (^IW
Elliston Ssf John Perot,
Have for Sale, at
No. 41, North Water-Street,
Muscovado Sugar Bandana Handkercbiefc
Copper in fheetsSc nails Madeira w|ne
Copper Ore Soal Leather and J
Lig.jrmV.tE A few barrels Shad and
Sail Canvass Herri ;
Oznabngs
Also Tor Sale,
BERMUDA-PACKET,
Burthen 108 tons—Bcrmu
da built, fails remarkably faft and is well found,
nov 8 *&fjw ~
Tor Sale,
At the Merchant's Coffee Houft, on WedneJdaj A
the 14tb infl. at 7 o'clock in the evening,
The fall failing smr, M
CHARLOTTE, r
' J'/ Of about 204 tons burthen, . c
- is a well found VefTel, hav
e ing lately had a very compleat repair both in r
° Hull and Rigging, the inventory may be seen at
any time previous to the sale by applying at the L
\ Audlion room of Si
RICHARD FOO7 MAN'd Co. i<
nov 8 ' 3t
AVIS AUX FRANCOIS,
f-xs. Le Parl^mentaire
' LA VICTOIRE, ft
k d'une marche fuptrieure partira n
151 prefix, direflement pour lc J
Port Republican), ceux qui si
' y prendre pafTage font pries de fe rendre a C
Philadelphie avant la dite epoque. f
S'adrefler a New York chez Meflieurs Blanche- f
reau and Cazeneuve, James ttreet, No 10, and a r(
S Philadelphie chez Fs. Brenil, Armateur du dit j
batiment Sprnce street.No. iij. t .
Le 5 Novembre, * dj'
y AVIS AUX FRANCAIS.
Le Parlementaire le
Mfk BENJAMIN FRANKLIN,
Capt. Jones, c
Conau par fa marche lupericure, par- r l
tira le it prefix, diredement p«ur J
Jerimie; ceux qui defirent y prendre palfage font
pries de fe rendre a Philadelphie avant la dite -
epoque. 1
S'adrefler a New York chez Messieurs Blanche
rcau and Cazeneuve, James street, No. 40, and a r
Philadelphie chez Fis. Breuil, irmateur dudit ba
'• timent Spruce street, N®. I [5.
le j nov. 1798 * <ij'
- n
s, For Savannah, (Georgia.) J
® rAST SAILING COVPEEEO SniP j
' e Richard West, Mafler,
TO fail in teu days.—For freight or paffasje ap
- ly to STEPHEN KINGSTON,
No. 4.6, Walnut Street.
wno HASy
140 Boxes of Havanna Sugar,
e . And a box of Mace, for tile. v
novtmber 6 eo6t
ISRAEL PLEASANTS Co.
)f No. 74, South Second ft reet,
Have returnedfrom the c»untry ; and have for
SALE, as usual, a large affartment of
DRY GOODS,
Imported in the lad vessels from Europe, confiding
of articles principally suited tb the present and ap
proaching season
They are determined t» fell off very low for
ca(h or Short credit,
els Note All person* indebted to tha late firm of
Samel Pltafanis is" Sons, are desired to make im
mediate payment to ths fubferibers. I
Israel Pleafants fe 3 Co.
Nov. 2 d4w
Just Imported,
Iron cannon, double fortified, Woolwich proof,
with their carriages complete—3, 4, 6 and 9 g t
pcunde-s.
Carronadca, WoolvrUh proof, with carriages, &c.
complete— 11, 18 and 24 pounders. In
Cannon powder in kegs of 2jl!» each
Round, double-headed,and c»nni!Ur (hot Ej
Patent fhsaihing copper, bright, adurtcd 18, 20,
11, 14, »6 and 28 or per fquara foot, fhem 48
by 14 in chat, fuiiatle for v.ffels from to® to _
1000 tons
Copper nails, bolts and fplkes
Boarding pikes.
Common tutlafTes
Gunners stores of all kinds
Tin-plates No I —l-3 cross brxq*
Vaunt Ihot in calks of scwt. each A
London porter and brown ft«ut,in calks of J doz.
bottled. q
Earthen waje in crates, '
For Sale by gl
SIMON WALKER, w
Pine near jth street. g v
Oflober 29. eo ' tf - oj
LANDING, J ;
From on board the Brig Amiable Matilda,
Richard Stites, Master, from Cape
Nichvla Mole.
23 Baits Socks and Flannel Drawers "] J*
18 De Gaifew Jjt 5*
2 Do. Rugs t 5- w
I Do. Hjvre Sacki j » 0
1 Do. Flannel Trowfcrs , Jin"??
2 Do. Tents, J ?
Also just Imported,
[<l the Ship Ctefapeake, Captain Webb, from "
Liverpool, T
147 Crates of Queen's Ware, w
Assorted particularly toTuit the Weft-India m
Market—For Sale by
Thomas cjf John Ketlaiid. m
tjjTcpcSar 7 _ 5
' FOR SALE, u
By the Subscriber,
The Cargo vv
Of the ship Loiufa, cc
Captain Champlin from St. Petersburg,
CONSISTING OF
HEMP aad BAR IRON.
- C
In the ship Dif patch,
Captain Benners, from Hamburg, j
-15 boxes Linens,
and a quantity of q
Sheathing Copper,
And the remainder of Jhip Rich- a
mond's CARGO, from Calcutta,
containing a variety of
Coarse and fine fyluflins,
and an elegant assortment of
Madras Handkerchiefs.
Mordecai Lewis.
Philadelphia, nov 7
JtiJl imported in JlAps William Penn, A
miable and Jean,from London,
A quantity of Canopu,fizes 4,6 M 9 lb. "> with balls
Carronades, 12 lbs. J suitable. _
Mu'fquets, Mufquetoons.Cutlafl'es and"! W
Piflols, for (hips use, I ~
Rifiad barreled Gubs, Fowling Pieces, I § S" I
and Horfcmnn's Vifiols, f -^"S
' 400,000 Flints, chiefly for muflcets, in j g
kesjs. J w
1 Regulation Light Dragoon Sabres, with Iron Scab
c bards, in cases of 5s each,
- Light Cavalry Swords in Cases
Sabres, Swords and Cutlaffea, with plated mounting a
Ironmongery and Cutlery in calks, a general as- C
fortment—For Sale by o
Thomas is" J*o. Ketland,
Philad. o&obsr 25.
Whereas the certificate of two 1
, lhares of the Bank of the United States in the
a name of Samuel Amory, of London, banker,
c No 3182, issued in lieu of 11593, Ii ;q4,were
li forwarded from London by the B'ritilh packet
a Countess, of Leicctter, capt. Dodd, bound for
New-York, which packet was captured by the
■; French, and the fairt certificate loft ; and for the ' r
* renewal of uliich, applicalkm is cnade at said
lt Bank, and all persons concerned are defned to
take notice.
CLEMENT BIDDLE.
Fhila. Oil. x 6, 1798. C o6w
ToTfi, ;
THE house, No, 78, North Se- ,
csnd street, with or without a store and ftabL—
'• The fcjufe is large and convenient ; enquire of
ir John Litle, No. 40, North futh street.
it Oflober 31. w&fa. tf
:e ; ——
Last Notice to the Creditors and
: : Debtors of John Shields.
' I 'HE firft are Kquefted to render their Ac- '
X counts against him, made up to the 23d j
day of AuguJt, 1797, the date of his Affign
_ ment, that a Dividtwtl may be promptly made.
The last to pay off their Accounts, Notes, and
Bonds, before the firft day of Drcembw ensuing.
IP Any that remain Unfetiled after that period, will
be put into the hands of an Attorney at Law,
for recovery.
' DAVID M. SHIELDS,
Attorney, (in fa&) to the
AfTn>nees and Trustees of
J. Shields.
Chefiiut-ftreet, No, 22.
November I, 1798. dtf.
A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
JOHN A. SHAEFFER, «f Philadelphia, who has
for a few years pall been in the fouihern Ststes,
ha* had the effrontery to draw fevcral Bills of Ex
>r change on' Timothy Pickafing, Esq. Secretary of
State, and myielf.and by that means has defrauded
a number «f persons of their money, deceiving
them by an exhibitiotrof letters anil papers with the
'S names affixed of divers public chara&eis and repu-
P* table merchants highly recommendatory of said
Shaeffer; to one of tbefe papers I find my' name
or fubferibed, but Ido not know the man ; these are
villainous forgeries! To prevent further imposition,
°f I have to request the printers of Newspapers in the
n * United States to publilb this for the bentfit of their |
fellow-citizens. SAMUEL MEREDITH,
Trjttfurer tf the Unit*! Stain. 1
Trenton, Nr".v -
CMer 24, 179b. £
The Subscribers "j
» Are now funding—For Sd(e t
1 St. Croix Rum—Muscovado Su?ar
Red J'ort Wine, ,
In pipes hogiheads and quarter Casks.
Two thousand bushels of Salt,
Eighteen Iron Sax poundrt*' proved at Woolwich.
Phiiift, Cremand, is" Co. Sc .
| November 3 lot jj a
Just Arrived,
In this Bcig fwKn the Mediterranean, and
rjow la'niing at V/alnut Street whurf,
Foucdi proof Brandy in Pipes. Ch
Brioiftone. \ ' T
An assortment of valuable DRUGS, Tii
CONSISTING OF sill
Opiim, Aloes, Cantharides, Camphire, Senna, 6d,
Cremor Tartar, &c. &c.
Effencesof Lemon rnd Bergamo t
Writing paper
Sweet oil in bottles anH flaOts M
Olives, anchovies'and capers or
Juniper berries
A L S o.—ltalian lutellrings B1
, Satins ct
Crapes
Umbrellas M
3 Remaining on Hand, p ,
St. Croix Sugars,
Claret in cases
Old Madeira Wins of the firft.quality. O
JAMES YARD. E]
November 3
J AMtb k RICH AKD SlVil itl,
HAVE thisday returned from the country to
their "STORE, No. 54- South Ftont-ftreet,
where they have for sale, as ulual, a l-rge and ge
a ncral assortment of European and Ealt-India
DRT GOODS i
mod of which have son arrived and are landing,
filial the different ve&'ch, from Hamburgh, Lon
don, Liverpool and Hull.
Their Customers by applying will find almost
every article generally imported, ar.! at as hw
prices for cash or credit, as ihey can bi had else- Q ;
where. -p.
N. B A few Cases of Nurenbergl TOYS, a
: consignment, to be fold by the cafe oulp.
Philadelphia, Nov. 1, 1798. dtf
The Subscribers i n <
H AVE JUST RECMVID AW INVOICE OF
Choice Cheshire Double Gloucester
CHEESE.
[Per the Chesapeake f'om Liverpool.]
100 Boxes of Window Glass,
Ofvarious sizes, per the Ja»e, from London.
They have also fir Sale,
zoo Calks of Refined Salt-Petre,
AND A QUANTITY OF f
Fine Castor Oil. d c
fames C. isf Stmuel IV. Fijher. Ell
November i dtf
JAMAICA RUM, -
A Cargo now landing at South fireet wharf,
FOR SALE BV
PETER BLIGHT, /
Apply at Store* on the Wharf,
WHO ALSO OFFZaS SALE, a t
BRANDV, ift and 4th proof ft'
1. Madeira and Port WWES, &c. &c.
N»v. r. dtf
'ROBERT SMITH iff Co.
' Have returned to the City, andare now open
ing at their Store, No 58, So. Front-flreet,
A large and General t h
ASSORTMENT OF GOODS, ft;
Suitable to the Seafoo,
Wiuch they have j[uft received per the late __
ig arrivals from London, Hull, Liverpool and
f- Glafgour (via New York) and will dispose
of on very low terms for Calh or short credit.
TO BE LEI, ,
A House in Fourth-ftrcet, next door to \
to the Isidian Queen —:enquire as above. a*
novtmber 6 514t
le '
re FOR SALE,
et AT THIS OFFICE,
or \ FEW Copies of an interesting Work,, in
' e IX. French, entitled a lli'lory of x
id The Adntmiftratipn of the French b
t0 Fu fences, ft
JtURING THE TEAR 1796. n
Also, An Hiflorical and Political View of the v
Adminiftrationof tht French Republic, during "
the y«ar 1797, —of the causes which produc- 1
-- e d th * tl
- Revolution of the 4th September —
of .
And of the results of that Revolution.
_ PRICE I DOLLAR EACH. {
ttl These two political trafls, are from the pen r
of the celebrated d'lvernois»and contain athon- 1
sand irterefling difclnfnres of the folly,.venality ®
c j and profligacy of the different Ufvrpers who
3 have reigned in Erance du ing the latter flagep
I ' of the horrible Revolution now pending in that
j mif-rable and depraved country.
n Nov. 3. 6
8- y ,
ill !
GEORGE DAVIS, !
"'AKES this opportunity of informing
j, e J- his friends generally, that so soon as the pre
0j fcnt ficknefswill aimit it, he proposes to offer fpr
sale, the most extenfiv? colleSicn of I
LAW BOOKS, I
he cvtr imported, or that was ever imported into I
—■ the United States.—The la*e arrivals have brought i
him a oumber of extremely valuable and lcarce t
BOOKS, and those expe<sled, will greatly add to \
the quantity. ,
October 2a. eodaw
'
TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
| "pvESERTED last night, a second time, from *
JL/ the Marine Camp, Davii Luprr, a |fife-. 1
3U . He had when he went away, a plain bluejacket and '
a |j veft,light-blueoveralls, a round hat,which lv»d been '
mc bound with yellow, and which he had ripped off *
are in his firft desertion, and a pair of new 1 ftioes. he is '
a Carpenter by trade, has grey eyes, sandy hair
th- fallow complexion and a nitch in his upper lip 1
ie jf His back is ftlll fore from a flogging he got a few 1
I days ago. He may bo discovered by his fifeing, 1
! as he plays extremely -.veil, <
W. W. BORROWS Major Com. of the
OSober 17. Marmr Corps.
[Volume XIV.
No. 5, DocK.-Srtt.sETt ,
HAVE FOR SALE,
IMPORT CD IN DIFI'UIItT VESSELS,
A general ajfortvunt of
Coarse and fine Woolens,
7-8 & 4-4 Irifli X.incns, ghsetiugs, Tickens &c.
Scarlet aad Ciutli colored Cardinals
Hat« in boxes of 11 dozen each
China, f-Zanketn Dining fe.tsajM) cups &saucers
Uljck I.uteJtrings, Taffatys and Sa'liiu
Pungem Cloths and Huijihums, Blur and Red
Cotton, and Pullkat Romalls
China and Engliffi Uinbrelia«
r. Crou lgy'Millisgton Steel
Tin in B»xes r-3 x
Shot, Frying Pans and Weeding How
id, Bd, lod, tid Nailj, &c. &c.
nth month 8 diw
FRUITS, WINES, &c.
MALAGA WINE, in butts
SHERRY ditto, in quarter casks
BRANDY, in butts and pipes
SUN-RAISINS, in kegs
MUSCATEL do. in boxes
BLOOME do. in do.
SOFT SHELLED ALMONDS in sacks
OLIVE OIL i» boxes of 12 bottles
BITTER & JORDAN ALMONDS in
boxes, &c.
FOR SJLE BY
PETER KUI-IN,
No. 178, North Maxk« llreef.
Nov. % c'lot
"» ' 1 '
IMP OR T E D,
• AND TO BF SOLD DY
CHARLES WHARTON,
[At his Houfc, No. 13(1, Soult. Second Street. J
Old Lisbon Wine,
Of thefirll quality, in pipes ind quarter casks.
Tea China, afTorted in boxes.
Hyson }
llyfon skin, aild > TEAS.
Young Hyl'on J
India Bandanna and Chepah Romal Silk Hand
kerchiefs.
Nankeens
Blaik Sattin
Black and coloured Lutestrings
Black sowing Silk
Garden Fanns, —Silk Umbrellas, &c. &c.
November 5
TO BE LET
And immediate pojfejjton given,
A LARGE convenient, weil finifhed hoafe,
No. 415, High llreet, lately occupied by
DoSor Wiftar, with coach house and liable?
. Enquire of WILLIAM SHF.AFF.
No. 168, High street.
Nov. a. dtf
To Be Let,
And immediate pojfeflim Given,
\ COMiVlODlOUSThrecStoryßrickHoufe
X\. with convenient back buildings, (United
at the north weft corner of Third and Walnut
ftree's.—For terms apply to
Dr. THOMAS PARKE.
No. 20, South fourth Street.
Oflober iq dtf
To be fold or Rented,
THE hosfe, No. 78, Walnut
street, with a callai and two ftablea—Poffefiion or
the hosfe will be given early in November—.the
ftables ar4 cellar immediately.
GEORGE MEAD.
f October 14, §tf
* To be Let,
An airy three Story Brick Bouse,
ON the South fide of Filbert Street, between
Eighth and Ninth flrett, formerly otcupind
as the Surveyor Genenl's Offiee*—Enquire at No.
ill, Cbefnut Street. /
10 e«ct
John Dobbin,
BOOT SHOEMAKER.
n ESPECTFULLY informs his Friends and
Jlx_ the Public in general that lie carries on his
[} business at No 99 South Second jlrcet, nearly op
posite the Merplrnts Coffee house wli#re gen
tlemen may be supplied in the neatest and befl
manner —lie assures :liole who may please to fa
)C vor him with their commands that no attention
or exertion on his fide shall be wanting to render
g. hiro worthy of their encouragement.
N. B. Orders received will be puncHujri.y at
tended to.
ricvember 5 J
\ LL PERSON having any demands a
gainst the eftaie of William Pirii*i, dec;* 'fed,
late of the city of Philadelphia, Tavern keeper, arc
requrfied to furnifli their accounts properly au
n. thenticated, and all persons indebted to said eilate
, are r.»q jelled to make payment to the fubferiber in
Philaoelpbia.
LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH Adininr.
e ; Oflobcr lift, 1798.
1 "LAMPBLACK.
A quantity of Lampblaek was left during the
_ Fever, at the Office of the Gazette of the Unit
ed States, —supposed through mistake. The
owner is requested to call and take it away.
ig Nov 3. $
-e- DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA,TO WIT:
:or BE IT REMEMBERED,
THAT on the twelfth day
of August, in the twenty-third year of
ito iL* —A the Independence of the United States of
;ht America, Benjamin Smith Barton, of
cc tridl, hath deposited in this office the title of a
to book the right whereof he claims as author in the
words following to wit :
«' New Views of the Origin of the Tribes and
« Nations of America—By Uenjamin Smith Bar
«' ton, M. D.Corr«fpondent Member of the Socic
" ty of the Antiquaries of Scotland, Member of
>m u the American Pbilofophical Society, Fellow of
nd " Bolton, Correfpondidg M»mber of the MafTa
en " chufetts Historical Society, and Proftffor of
off " Materia Msdica, Natural History and Botany
;is " in the Univeraty at Pennfylvinia,"
air In conformity to the ail of the Congrsfj of the
ip United States, intitled "An a A for th* encourage*
cw m«nt of leirnicg ty securing the copies of maps,
lg, charts.and bo ts, to th: authors and proprietor,
of such copies durifltj the timesther.in mentioned.'*
rhe SAMUEL CAIJJWELL, C.erk, Dift. of P«n»'
November 1, IHUDSON fcf YORKE,
NO. 54, NORTH FROWT STREET,
HAVE JUST RECEIVED,
Per tke la It arrivals from Europe,
a very complete assortment of
DRY GOODS,
Which they will dtfpofe of on reasonable terms,
AJIOMG3T ARE
Superfine and coarse cloths, coatings,
ELflic and fancy do.
Caffimeres, plains, duffils
Rose* and flrip* blankets well aflorted in small
bales
Furniture chintzes cottons a»4 dimeties
Callimancoes, camblets, durants, moreens, and
joans
Muslins oi all kinds
Velvets, velverets, thickfetts and fancy cords
An elegarrt aflortment of ribbons
Red, white and yellow flannels
Red ann green hocking aad welfc baizes
An ir. voice cutlery and Hardware
Cottonad-'s, lhawls, printed handkerchiefs
7-8 4 4 1 >8 checks
9-8 & 5-4 cotton ilripss
Cotton, wor lied and silk hosiery
do do G'toves
Threads, bindings, tapes, Arc. See.
nov 9' . . digt
Drawing tsf Painting Academy,
HO. 63, WALNUT STSEtT. 1
J- C O X,
RESPEC i FULLY informs his patrons and c
thf public, that his Aca emy will be open- tl
edon Monday next, the ijth inlUnt. Hours c
cf tuition for Young Ladies, from Two till
Four ; and an Evening School for Gentbmen o
from Six till Eight. b
J. Cox bas inade New Additions to his col- ic
le&ionof Pitflurefque Drawings, during his ab- ti
fence from the City, and has likewfcfe procured
1 some handsome Hals Relief fubjetfls, for the in-
ef his Pupils, in the dolhine of light at
and shadow.
Terms of Tuition, Six Doriars and a haif
per Quarter.
Lidrcs and Gentlemen inflrti&ed in the dif
ferent branches of Drawing arid Painting, at jj
their own apartments. " J
nov 8 fm&th 3 t
Samuel Potter, William Page and f
Thomas Price,
No. 31. Chpsnut street, f u
Are now opening a very ixten/ive njortment of In
D RT GOO D'S, 101
Suitable to the present season, -
Which they have just received per
Ships FaAor, Boyne, Otl'ego & Independence, T.
(■via New York) from LONDON, I J
Alio, per Clips William Penn & misble from me
London, and (hips Sally ap.d Thomas from d«f
Livzkpool, ' gen
Which they will fell on very low terms for
tafh or approved notes, viz. r
Common and fuperfine 7 8 fancy and chins cal- ~~~
clotlft licoes .
Plain ft fancy coatings 7 8 common and chintz H
Plain and Unpad caffi- furnitures
meres A very Urge quantity of
Swanfdowns clintxa
Rose *nd duffill blankets Purple and chintz ftaw).
Red and yellow fla&nels Linen and lawn pocket
Fine Welch flar.nels 1 andkerrhiefs
Carpits ai:d carpeting Camel*' hair ftawls
Jcatuictts & tabby cords a very large afTortraento/ 1 .
Velveteens & velveretts ribbonds
Thickfetts Britilh plain Checked,ftri-
Call:mancoes, durants & pedand tatabour'd muf- " re
j eai " lins of all descriptions
Silk, cotton, and worded .olorld bordered shawls, 1
hose a great variety
p Cotton, callicoe, & twill j-4 and 6-4 conjeversms .
checks and bettollces I
Dimities India book& jaconet tmif- I .
3-4 and 7-8 dowlafs lins J "
Damalh tabic linen Laces and edgings J. "i
4-4 and 6-4 lheetings Black and patent lace I
Irish lineLs Lace veils and figured
Ginghams cloaks I P
Bandannoes Pulongs andfattins ( ~ no
A very Urge quantity of Persians aofl farfanats I *
Silk modes |
And a variety of other articles.
Nov - 3 tu.th fa.im I new
Smith & Rodman, I IfJ
No. 4f, South Front street, I n0
Havejufl received per the William Penn, and I
Jane, from London, Dianaanrf Thomas I
from Liverpool, and Kingston, I Tl
from Hull, I Thui
A LARGE e GENERAL ASSORTMENT OF I
DRY GOODS,
AMONG WHICH ARE I Me I
Plain, twill'd and striped Crapes I
Coatings Plain&ftriped Wildbores I
Fine white and red Wellb WorHed,yarn & Cotton I
Flannels' Hose I mov
Do. yellow and scarlet do. Men and Boji Woollen I •
Superfine and low priced Mittens I c
5-4, 6-4,7-4, cloths of Irish Dow. {
all colors .„ . I f
Plains and Halfthicks 3*4 brown Infh Linen '
Forest and Hunter ClothsVi."" " ' C ' om
Cr &nze i " d RCd Drapery Flaxcn Tow CW is H
Do. J-4, 6-4, and 7.4, do Silef,,, C ° mi
Red & green Backing do. 7 .g and yard-wide Irilh I - nov
Swanfdowns & roilanett.- Linens " |
Rose, Point and Duffill Printed Callicoes&Chin-I e .
Blankets tzes I °* tht
Superfine London Caffi- Printed Linen and bar- I ((> th,
meres of the newelt and der'd Handkerchiefs |
moS falhionable colors Cotton& Callicoe Checks I
Low priced Yorkfliire do. Thread Edgings & Laces I Vj f
Plain and striped Calli- Men '» BeJvcr Gloves |
mancoes Plns in fma " "fes |
Joan Spinnings StDurantu Tapes WBoUbini j
Rattinetts & Shalloons Thicksets and Corduroys I SH(
Bom biz ci Is «id 81.,1 I
a variety of other Articles on hand, for ( - " -
fait on the mod reaf»nable ttrros for cash
or the usual credit. ~1 t«v
r, ™
TO BK RENi'ED, I CoUntif
( dnd immediate possession I
A LARGE thres fio.-y BRICK HOUSE. I Nove
fituate in Walnut-street—The rooms are I
1 owmodious, airy and private—from which,and I
its central poEt on, it is thought to be an eligi- I c
bis hiuation f«r a Public Office. For terms, en- AMI
Siiire of BF..VJ. IV. MORRIS.
tli/o, A Ware Houle, in Tay- T s °P SI
for s Alley. 1 writ
Oflobtrs). 3tawaw includin;
AN APPRENTICE
TO THE PRINTING BUSINESS tinuaucc'
Will be taken at this Office, if PuUic
inmiediate application be made.
bw. i. Ct or B
I 11 810
7 J u ]l Imported\
J ' A quantity offalt-petre, refiner! .
• E T » Gun powder F and double fealcd battle
C-nnon, 4 and 6 pounders
rope, London porter and Burton Beer
Multar. squares, 4 ounces
Bed Durham muttard
Ginghams, fubjeil to drawback
All of which will baJold on moderate terms by * ,
c terms, FE.VJfr DAVIES, junr,. I ,
No. 9j, south Second flreet, oppofue the j
city tavern.
nov - » mwScftf j
Virginia Tobacco,
1 ma Twenty four hoglhead., old, and of an excellent !
quality, 1
:ns, and FOR S ALE BY |
James Murland, t
__ No. 97, south Front flre«t. c
cords H B.—a few koies of LINEN CHECKS, ind e
an aflortmrnt of BWOTS and SHOES, whidi will «
be fold cheap ypply as above. t
1 nov - 7.. '> v «odtf E
' JOHN SHIELDS, 9
broker, p
Emtfraces this op "artuntty to present -his thanks tl
to his fellow-citizens for their pa/l favors
and acquaints them that he is returnrdfrom P
'so Chefnut tftll, to his former rejidenee, the
'my . House A®. »a Chefnut between Front
and Second-street, A
ATTHERE he holds himfelf readv to execute ?'
V V their command, in ev«rv branch of his in
profelßpn, trusting that from a residence m this
n« and city of 35 years he has it in his power to render pr
■open- them .ffent.al ferviee, assuring them that his
Hours commiflion (hall be as l uw as any in Town.
ro till Lotts, Lands, Houses, Veflels, Certificates pi,
hmen of every defenption and Bills of Exchange, pr
bought and fold, thedocketts carefully exam- N,
is col- ined and clear titles made upon th« lhortell no- qu
its ab- tiee, by the public s humble servant, Fr
, C ' ir „ . 0 , . John Shields. Gc
1 j V" Good negotiable Notes difeounted
i'gnt at a low premium. dit
, haif n ° Vtmher7 '
DAVID M. SHIELDS, o<s
'' At the Store No. 22 Chefnut-{lr*et.
B> Begs leave to info,m&is,friends &cujlcmers that wo
in J" b,s goods from Chefnut-Hill, of 1
j uTv Jc t0 accomnmi «ttthem ic.th, c r ,
and p °ARSL and (be green Baize. A
V-4m half pieces—Coarse and line white Fljb- 4 f„m
nell. from t/jd, to. 6/ a yard. He expedl. a 1 For
further fupp/yby the firll arrival, from Scotland, I this
nt of Ireland ar.(* England, and is determined to fell I C
low for Cafl or a feort credit. I ~
" ov 7 , 3 awtf
per Cook Wanted.
ce ' a small regular family, a ivo- J
. ma.i cook, who i\ a thorough miftre's of I
from n,. r ' 3 a « d Cal P roduce fatiifaaory rccom Not
m A *y ? er[ ' :n answering the above Car
m . dsfcrrption, will meet with constant employ a «,i
generous wages. Application to be made at ths I
. r gr olhce of this gazette. I J,
trouble, no Irifli wtoman need a%>ply. I an J
2 ***«>»*'
intr H S. Cl, t aj?a,nft the EsTAre of l „
rToueiS), r * LOCKTZR, deceased, are 1
yof q AT J«r£ r !#t» £ rrnieilive accounts to
NATHAN A. SM ITH, *) , . TN
iwls oi (. ASiing X c
cket JOHN DORSET, \ £xtcu,( >"- Carr
. I rits
it of t LEJSS OF THE HOUSE
Lately occupied hv Susannah Lockyer, together m
*ri- THE STOCK OF GOODS, £'e
,us ' n d ' fpo,id of Time will be given for their
, s the latter on un-excepiionable fe«urity. £' ,
-ic nov o 1 , I
' .VW6w I inr.ir
NOTICE.
inforans the G ="^-
iuf- V men Subfcnbers, that the EXCHANGE I
is opened fortheir recep.lon ; and the C ITT \ Phila
,j c, Ge n'lemen and Traveller.— Nc
p? •4 ru, g added an addition of twelve Bed 1
red t0 ® fuJc building, which makes it
I perleclly convenient.
I november 6 I Tf J
1 —— —_J ■ »taw I *'
I *** The Publit are informed that the Slow
Alderman's Court of this City, will re- Stock
new their fittings on Thursday next the boTrd
I 15th of Ndvember inft. at ten o'clock I Falmo
in the forenoon at the City-Hall as usual. A<
| 9 <t j
nd \ University of Pennfyhania.
Th TH r? d f erent . Schools win °be opened 8 on
J Thursday the 15th instant. By order, j
I - Wm. ROGERS, Sec'v. TH.
I rhe Otfices of Government
are to be removed from Trenton to '
I City on fhurfday next I w ' l ' c ' l
,"l *.* TTS-c^^TWsr7 e . C ' l '
„ m "'rffrom Chefler to the Cfty, and
IS again opened at the usual place.
1 Novemb « r 3 1 f I oa c
L *** The Ol5ce"ol the i
r- Company of NORTH-AMERICA
lis again opened at the South-vveft EX£
„ corner of Walnut and Front-streets.
h - nOV ,f T o T Tr. drw M 1
I IWbjRANCE OFFICE oa
o the State of Pennfyhania is removed
t6 thefouth-eaft corner of Second and
S J Walnut streets.
1 di » K
J The Insurance Office nf Fort ' as
; .shoemaker BERRETT ~
- «J.S a-. SZ£ - H«
r £ 79 d6t Bristol r«
REMOVAL ' *°M l T
c.„, fes • p *sz
Millings £s? Francis. Nov -
I November 3 I
A R
Samuel Moon, jun'rs School, n bcr 3
IN CHURCH ALLEY, Tt hLI
inftro<sliD S Girls in Reading, ing
Writing, Arithniette, Grammar I S , PP
~j- .t a. js, risr/iss
OAn Evening School, I receive ei
For BO X J—Kept at -.he fame' p l ac e them ukt
JI Rio. 6th, 08 |
i*w 4 w I Solebur
CJV #
.... %
A French Classical & Mathematical
SCHOOL.
"ITT"ILL be opened on Mqmiay the lid. inflant
VV at that Urg« commodious room formerly
ocaupied by Mr. Leo in Norris's Alley, No. Ij,
nearly oppolite the City f stern; under the direc
tion of Meffrt. Smith and Chandler both of Jit>e
, r *l education, and long experienced in their re- '
.rms j fpe&ive profeffions—As they intend under, the ]
patronage of a discerning public, permanently
1 ite e to ellajjlilh thenifelves ii> this undertaking, their '
whole fludy an! attention will be drvored to the
" 1 improvement of their pupils.—Thcfe willbeton
du&ed upon tfie latetl and mod approved plans, j
eicelle t 'trough a complete course of academical llulits,
ei cn or those farts only that maybe pointed out,as more
immeaia;cly adapted to their particular views in life
, —Certain portions of their time will be afligned for
HQ} geographj ,hiilory, eitradts, compofitioo, and de- <1
ft. clamations in French and Euglifh, iR order to form v
KB, ind early habits of writing and fpeaktnj with jiropri- e
licb will 'ty—ViGts from parents ind litetary charoctrrs, \
tending to excite a spirit of emulation, will bo
•odtf grate) ally received. The hours of fiudy are from
9 to 14 A. M. andfrom 2 to 5 P. M.
fhey offer to tranflatethe EngliSi,French,Spanish
and Portcrguefe languages; and to draw in their
proger modes and (tile, all kinds of writing, whe
thcnhi 'her 'egal, commercial, or epifiolary.
■mors - he firlt Monday in November, they also pro
from pose to open an evening school for French, lo k
thc keeping, furvcyiiig and navigation, of which they
nt have i pra&icai as well as theoretical knowledge.
As a number of French gentlemen will attend, the
JXecute ®"dents of their 1 mgiuge. by continually converf
of his in S w « h them, as well as. their teachers, will ac- tel
inthis Ulre ' a '°ss with the principles, a facility of ex-
, preflion.
m his AVIS aux FRANCOIS :
"• Meff'rs Chandler ct Smith ont
ihcates I'honneur da prevemr M.M Us Francois, quils fe 1 -p.
hange, propofent d'etablir une Ac«denie eu Norri* alley, !
exam- No. rj ; pretque vn-a-vis It Bourse ; dans la- J
eft 110- quelle on enfeiguera la langue Latine, Angloife ct J| r '
Francaife : I'Arithmetique, la itnue des livres, la .' S
Ids. Geographie, et les Mathenißtiqici. " \ C
anted On fait aufii toutes fortes de tiadinftions dans les
dites langues : et donne lecons chtz les particuliers. r°
wtT Qu'on i'addreffe a l'hotel de Mr. Vallette au
- coin dc 4ertv rue et Cherry alley.
»3oher '7- ood tf
- A young woman from England, 33 *
st)bat, would wilh to engage with a lady in the°capadty ,h °
' ' of lady's-maid, or in the situation of a house 'keep
er to a genteel family, or to a ftugle gentleman.
laizes A good recommendation can be procured from we '
Flan- ■ fiimc ol the most retj?«£table families in LVis e'i*y_ coui
<2s a For particular enquire »t tiic prln*)g office o •? »
land, this Gazette. ""■<
0 fell O.Sober jr. eaJt llou
{ Female Education. thei
- James A. Neal's School, ou
7 bre<
for thf tuition of •
Wo . TOUNG LADIES, £«
: r s of Will re-commence on Monday, the 12th of
com November, at his School Room, No. 28, F
bov = Carter's llley.
"ths The Evening School f,„ p '
TVill be opened, as vfual, at the fame time N
y- and place.
2! November 3 eod^t
OF ' notice ~ ]V]
are Owners of Carriages, and last,
sto Retailers ©/"Wise fef Spirits. Fren
TN con'iquence of the late Epidemic inthis
'<? A City, numbers have negledled to enter their , "
on. Carriages, Jflfo the retailers of Wine and Spi
rits to call and talte out their Licences. The '
returning hesltb of the City, the OfSce k re
thfr ™ rom Gerenantown to its former place, w ,,?.
No. 49 North Third-street, where those who ; ac )5 C
have negieaed rnufl call and pay the duty on s o me
tor their Carriages, and those retailers takeout theii Tf
Licence!— Their ready compliance will prevent Buioi
1 incurring the penalty ot the Law. inch'c
JAMES ASH, Cfilledar I by oc
H»- of the Ift Survey of the l/l I wl> en
?£ Division of Pennsylvania. Jlr E e
r r Philadelphia, Office of LifpeAion ) 1 fe<2 (
1— No. 49, North Third-street. i i All
Be .d " ov 9 mw&frw °' clo,;
' " Notice is hereby g/ven, | wgh"
, THAT application will be made to the Treafu- j a feloi
- ry of the United States, for the renewal of the I away,
tie following Certificates of Six Per Cent Funded kboth 1
re- f to j ' fta " d!B S in the n:ln ie Join of Tw
I Landon, the said Certificates having he;n loft on I an
board the Swallow Pocket, Captain Kidd. from above
ck I "lmouth to New-York. I negro,
al. 1 3° 72 1 Cert ' s OT 2000 dolls. ~i
1 da. 5000 C j Lr.n
10,sn Ido 3000 j
I nu-i ~ ~ Willtngs & Francis. lOf U
Philadelphia, august 30. eo 6w I „
On j - T ; y [ CO
j Wotice is hereby given,
I r a PP^ cation will be madi to Ihe treasury I r *F'H
- of the United i-tates for the renewal of the follow- 1 0
wg certificates of fix per cents. fuHded debts, stand- Northi
° wK' K namc . G "£"<U' Rigaud, of Gensva, df Fein
which were left from on board the Swallow Pack- Oebtor
I et, Lapt. Kidd, from Falmouth to New-Yoik. J pointec
d I N °,', 3 jSr' R T ° ffice '95.1 cert, for 100 c ] thf COl
Ul 13,15r. do. I.4th do. do. 1 do. for ?500 Imy Cr<
I , killings & Francis. | which t
_Oaobcr i 4. they thi
e Printing Work, M«ti
J Of Every Kind, J221!!
I EXECUTED AT THE SHORTEST I
i. NOTICE, . Of Wi
I At the Office of the Gazette of the I the 1
n » „ United States, S tat
I ° d 'f der ,
R. taylor; f
1 MUSIC PROFESSOR, TTrn
n FSPFmrrTv ", XTH - ,lU£T ' W I
I R ESP£ CTFULLY informs the Public that Court
- £ , c °>«'»Ufs to teach Ladies the Piano dumber
I Forte as usual. laws oft
- N ° V - 6 - tuthsa
tt r • ' 7 I a PF
. j xiorles to Winter next > be
: TTORSES will be taken in to winter at P*o- tC
| S?EC J ! LL,at the 11 Mii « s 'one, on the lb
Brfflol road ; they will be well fed with clover P y °'
■ *nd timothy hay, well littered and cleaned and
wiUa'fohave ahrp field to e.ercife themfelve^
B// WCath K r " g° od —E«qmre of Mr. North'
premrtis. m «chant, Watet ttreet, or on the
Nov - ? wfcf J°hr
Eight Dollars Reward. ' R £< r 1
{ A JOBBERY was committed on th<. s
- M " k *
j merly a resident of Philadelphia =n • 1 . I b ifinefi,
»ent » his fpeech-the S
a runaway, about eighteen years e ft«
los middle stature. Whoever f. cnrn. iPL-?! eir Cou
villains so that they 1
| receive eight dollars reward or/«„. r 1 . not boift
them taken separately. ' ' f ° r " ther ° l *°Y <
~ , ISAIAH TUCftEMONrY f led Sj n F'
I fiolebury, 10 Mo. I ?ih , tJ9 t. ,_ 3 "
0
\
mattcal POST-OFFICE,
Philadelphia, (jth Nov. 17qg.
tiUnftaqt The Pod Office will be re
i formerly . . " I - lc
r, No. is, moved to its uiqal place, No. 34, South
:h«ria£ Fl "O n t--ltreet, oxl Saturday the 10th inft.
their re- 3t 12 o clock loon, and on Monday j |
inder, th« morning the let er carriers will be e in to 11
rmanently , o v 1
ting, their deliver, m their diftndts, as fprmerly. j c
SfhTJi: Canal Lottery, Na 11. ■'
d 'l! u'u'l' re - comme * M drawing in the course of |
it,as more the frefent month.
ewsinlife to bthad Eight Dollars each, at
[lignedfor 1. WILLIAM BLACKBURN's Lottery
, and de- and Brokers office. No. 64 South Second-street,
:r to form where cheek booki ire kept for regifterin- ind
, r "P ri " '"-"mlnatteu of Tickets in the above, City of
nF?' Waftin o t<M » *nJ Atterfjn Lotteiies, 3i.c. P
• w ' ll be xKlWpu, i,
are irom One prize of to,ood dollars ro ,ooo e1
i,Spanish n'Z 4 '° o<S 20 ' 000 h
'« their Two 4,000 a,
ig, whe- -r-Z ' ,cco 2 > OCO U,
, ~ ren , s°° 5.c0, bl
ilfo pro- twenty.,even 100 5.400
h, took- j" h proportion ot the one hundred d<
ich they °', e fifty dollar prizes—The Lottery is ki
>wlcdge. ™° rc two thirds drawn an 1 above ij,cco Hi
end, the r ' c^er at the commencement,
converf- Note, the bufinds of a Broker duly at
will ac- to in all its Uranches.
sot ex- nov 9 2iur tb
. Forty Dollars Reward. df
i rvnt FOR AWteHEMIJijKo
quiisfe T J gentleman negro, ha
is alley, ! rS name Gzon.an ar G orgs Parkkr, the tre
lane la- P'oj erty of the fubferi; er, who ha< thought wh
;loife ct P ro P er on the n ght of the 219. ir.lt, to elope from
irrdi, la , a D y provo;ation or jufc cause ;
he was formerly the property of Beckwith Butler, a '
dans les 1 2 " a conf "l er able time with P' n
culiers. f°" en Sf.wliqkepttavsrt, in Fredefifckbarg,having
ette au nu, - ch , con! P a ny and travelled with several hat
gestleniL:* through different parts of this (late, he i
odtf "•? .k?©*"' !t is therefore conjeSured he
will pufc for lomc of the northern cities or towns Cla:
and, hehas discovered n aversion tophntation work j hin
apadty th O"gh he may perhaps have crossed the ridgi den
: keep wh " c ?Jf as " brother belonging to major Eu-lcr. fto
nan.— This fellow is about five feet seven iwclus hi^h
from wel '*proporti6ned and walks aSive and brilk his are
is c^ y . countenance it open auj agreeab'. JI i
Ifice o good huuiow ;he can hardly be furpaft inflow
torew-A„,fs, Vnd is a very enable waiting-man, fuci
e»Jt bouse 'ervant, barber, &c. To defwibe his dref, l en ,
wobM beufdefs.M ne poffefled a variety of clothes, ,
thcugh when dressed lately, he Wore a green coat
, £ w,th white ferreting and spotted jacket and 1
breeches. Whoever brings him home or fccures I fel't
in goal in this or any otier Bate the said slave so of a
~, , lat ' ma X Btt him again, (hall have the above 're- j. n( ,
2th Of kward ALEXANDER VAKS
28, Fa'mouth 0a.13, 1798. ® c o
N. B—Matters of vessels and Stage Drivers ,re
are requested to beware of fuffering said fellow to 1 of
impofeon them by alMinghij escape. A. y. oua
r time _November 3 w&f. 4 w
f s t Sixty Dollars Reward. . befc
1VT ADE , their efca P e Crom the Gaoi in the bo
, ,„ t rou S h <? f Lancaster, on Saturday evening et >
last, between the hours .f 8 and 9 o'clock, two the
French pnfoners, part of the crew of La Croya- that
I this bl » j who
their , *< h(: . named Eticnnc Aujlin, a native of Bor- -n ,
Spi- fXVu" . r "" Ce ,' 26 y earß of a ge, about j feet 6 B ° d
The g ' J? ark *l* anJ complexion, by trade 2i
k re- a cai "P" tsr be unacquainted with the was
.lace, tit " Gcrm f" ian S ua S e - Had on was
who ;, f |. , !?' a j te nac > pantaloons, and ftrartf f,
ssrasfc™ 1 " tS
L f hc P cter D*pri cux , a native of m °rr
L I iuch°« W I rance ' 20 )' ears of age. about 5 feec 8 I worl
inches high,g.-cy eyes, dark complcnion, a seaman dtth
by occupation. , diny ill-looking fcllow Had os .
n when he went away, a blue sailor's jacket? with W ' th
iar<isr^ an old w ° ol hat,ipeaiw im^-r - \t\
o-cfo'-k'.n *,t hi! cfca P' r the fan)e day, about nine 2d
w O cloA in the morning, fiom the fame gaol, a ne- ted a
hieh of a?". f '" r ahoßt ' 4 inches
I high, of a smiling countenance, lately convicted of ? ,
"the wt all' n CoUDt)r ' HaJ ° n When h -' «n,t °[ tb
i IWh / , e coat > a pair of white trowfers ch » n J
ided Kboth ragged, and a black hat. ' waa 1
if' ° f • _ w ® n ; y ' iivedoll3 «will be paid for apprehend- now t
t„n ing and feeunng in any goal, each or either of the
r ° m negro,"by Frf,!chinjl, » anJ dollar, for the
.. n Cir fi a * Carpenter, jun. IherifT.
I - Lancatter. Oci. to. r7oB. teon J f°'
j T° the Creditors ' ]
i. Of Will'm M'Clelland, of Norlyhumbtrland ,
__ County, in the State of Pcnnfylvania. v
_ take notice, L 7
ury j HpHAT I have applied to the Judges of the Court f C k°
Z' L 1 " ,C Picas, in and for the County If I th j
n I or^ thumberland, for the benefit of the several laws
«f paffed loi the relief ol insolvent IT
Mint^V^TV 6 ° f 'l l6 said Court haveap- that tl
J pointed the Thin,eth day of November inft. it be- f elUa ti
«&.I»gthe Friday of the sourt ef Common Pleas for .
30C the County of Northumberland, to heai me and I m °, 1
: °° Court House in Sunbury, at 3nd J !
u eandplaC<! ai f Crediro » may attend if m;
they thmk proper. • States
Nnrf , , . Wm. Mc. CLELAND. thoufa
I Northumberland, November I t \ . ,
I ""v'wbcr 7. v , thath;
1 ™fg ,
Of William and John Smith, of the op
the County of Northumberland, in the thy to
otate of Pennfylvama, lately trading un . (hip wi
- d cob P ;nif
I oTEEDMAN ?ff SMITH BOt S e
TAK , E NOTICE . that the Subscriber., ob j e<ft 1
n :„* r" made application to the judges of the G
II S°Zk , C ° m f mo » r Plca " the County of Nor- his fenl
"<> u " f ! aforefaid, for he benefit of the several /*„<?
laws of the Sut. of Pcunfylvai-.ia- passed for the fP [ s
hth f "ifoivontDebtors, and that the said Court °^ dler
hath appointed the Thirtieth day of November which
He".' t'lir- Fr t T ° f theCo "» him no,
; XcyZV4
d WILLIAM STEEDMAN. ?f ner
:s „ , JOHN SMITH. h,s > Wll
r. Northumberland, November j, , 70 »
november 7 * ' ' *"*
6 -TT T~r- - law 3F
John Haines Wm. Toner
J in th, SADDLING
- future T ' arried "der the si™ of ' . C# "'r's
° V, v HAIN£ S £s* JONES, v
: i
® mer.cin, to theG attaohn,c,lt a * Native A- No.
f ' t heir Co U nti? en l C-nft.tut.on oi
1 mentot a e t^iCm to the epcourage-%. u; c ta
' not Ca a£2y* Uc - hou s h
any nart of v * * their experience in
pledging themTeWes' Ukc the libsrt y of N, B -
Ibe 4iLt?i 1; thb city 0 "' m^U(aaurc aall andTra,
. juae 26* *' other,
I tuSutf di^rch.
■ t
ti
ondav I grC3teft droll of all tl, °Ol W u° Was ,he
7 , mon l? «any odd parti'„l f branches . »-
gin to l,ft of the accdcnal dS" 8 ' ™ left U8 *
rly. | different acquaintance hi «
own talents, and the Jr At of th «'r
• ' , far **
trfe of I before my readers. Hi. mottol Uj
ich, at %?am te
-.ottery « Try 4 „ endat tfiijlola Marti
pening to put r himf'lf 7^ to Sam ? tunt ' tap
in the course of W [ZrT" of U*
10,000 effefts of air on the'hum >. on tne
10,000 himfelf to be the exact wV' , atto^nd
5,c0, become a v ery learned jockey Per » 11
5,4P0 ift of April—Tom HardcalHe •
indred favouring to be witty this day on ' en '
ery is kind, found he did better as a L° ma, >-
a( icriainment of his friends. gfMt cn "
4th of June—Ned Snarmh H-„
iw the hospital this d. v f n J r „ b^ a " t0
a„J lire world, 1 T"" 11 '"»«
d=fi S n,d fJr
17th of
1, had written several pamphlets 'and "'u
, the treafbn, without turning a perny a ,\ m
'f' ki wk.(tlisg our his meditftii, f/' ' I
z °r tying on the road ; h&Si A™"
utler' «* the cmen, and he ha, f,£T ee „- **
- I pmg barber a: Shoreditch. ° 3 tO P*
I had Wh °
owns I J*' an ' purfued hard by the bailiff l-.
„ k , brtafA,. iavm sh / J. w
ndg. deoing began immediately to mat, g
5: Jrs ; M-"" t " ■" 2*£S
his h,s "ifillg. y
I 4th ofNovcmber—-Bob Smirk 3 h„ t i
ft in lowing the bullnefs of an afioiSey
S3; u r/ s ° ■ many y cars ' f oul r, ™
nt to f r^r ,he foIIo - da
£ °f?pSwrpT™\? f l ki " r»
..«. Us a Ss; t' ..r;; ™"
• know what ,h e ~'ri.™
occupations, till, being hired at .k
d =rc„,ddw I
b0 - Let' andS 3P P a r s fdffa " fromI ' is poc
""S S'n ■ f • 3 def P w «e effort to cabbaee
s iKr^xirr-rt, 1 '" 4
, t 6 Dodkin's coats.
ado 2 4 th of December—As Bob Fnrbiflj
the was turning the corner of a street, hi hat
; K was b own off into an .ufiioneer' pulpit
Z foll 7 ea and moHnted the rof!
trurojuft as tiey began to bid fov it. The
°« l°T nC ' tI,C Crowd below him, thf
C 8 T O, , k, "f to£h ;' m < n * were prodigious ;he
o" %[ v T fdf :nf P ired ' and hurried d.w„
ith h" the next day he tnte.ed
er " 11 1 P r °feffion ; and no man handles
the hammer l.kc Bob Furbish at this hour,
me 2d of January, 1673—Paul Puff had ac
m i) fl 3S P edlar r fhow man, and qaack
of f f K ° r '/ ' beln ,ff tem P'ed on the evtnW
;nt of this (fey to take a hot mutton pye in ef.
rs, change for a box of pills, all the paltry cook
was lighted up i„ his foul, and his (hop i,
now the mod considerable in the city,
he J —-
The Editor of the Orach cf Dauphin has tie
I following comments on the conviaim of
I Lyon.
FOR THE ORACLE.
I Ma. WrtTH,
I< l s OU wi !' °W«> a 'ubferiber by inserting
I the following immediately after the account
of the Vermont Lyon.
'S CIT'ZENS °F DAUPK'N,
it I 1 f Wll ' not be improper to inform you,
>- I that the above Matthew JLyon was a
> fentativc in Congress from the state of Vtr
j I mont ; ever a firm and avowed anti-federal
it I and j aco hiii; the man of spitting record|,
f the man, whose ill breeding coiHtee ITiiited
I States the trifling sum of twelve or fourteen
I thousand dollars, though notvvithftanding all
I that has been said or may be said against this
man, forty-four of the Members of Con
gress vvlmfe sentiments were (I presume)
f the opposite to federal, thought him wor
; I thy to retain bis leat. Perhaps their friend
• I (hip will induce them to visit this hero of ja
j cobinifm in his gloomy cell. For sure it is
I Bot genuine friend/hip, which deserts the
. I objeft of its esteem in adversity and distress
I ~ —Gof then, ye who esteem and admire
I his sentiments
\fpeß at the fltuation he is placed in, by dif
obediencc to the laws of that country
I which has hitherto protefled him ; defcrt
j him not ; enliven his hours of confinement
I with ca ira, ca lra and Marseilles hymn ; J?t
I hiii not repine 5 he is not the only political
I sinner: Ye who admire sentiments fucli as
I his, will kneel in obtifance to his creed.
TUST ONE.
Mrs. SCOTT
Informs her Friends in the City, and hiewi/r
ihofe ivho Jlill reinuin in-tbi Country, that fit
I rtturticd homt with her Family, to No. 1,
Carter's Alley.
I Nvio eo;t.
French Language.
G. DUFIEF,
No. 63, South Second Street,
WILL OPIN
His DAY. apd EVENING SCHOOL,
On IVcdnefcLiy, the 14 th hjl.
N. B Private Tuition attended to as usual,
and Tra'.iflatioas front cither Languige- into the
other, pcrtornaed vyith accuracy, lecrecy,- and
diffj-ch. ' §
"J. " *•r i ' ha
tljis 3>ap's
BOS TON, November 3. m
The President of the United States will fe
proceed to Trenton, in the course of ten or p'
twelve days.
. 131
The Ambassador of the new-fangled Cis
alpine Republic, at Paris, has represented m
in an official note, to Citizen " Beaucoup de th
I'Argent," that a conspiracy had been set as
on foot to overturn the Cisalpine Conllitu
tion ; and " that a handful of miscreants
who assembled at the house of the French
AmbafTador, Tronve, composed the com
mittee of innovation."—Oh! the blejjings of
French Fraternity !
V If Jhe French Direftory, in prosecuting
their schemes of deception, should fend an
Envoy »>'r Envoys to the United States, as
it is said they will, to treat of reconcilia
tiou—and th-y should experience the fame
reception, treatment, &c. as our Envoys did
Bt p ar ; 3 _wliich every one mull, confefs,
will be fair play, it is effcntial that the go
vernment of the United State* should be
made acquainted with all the insults which
have been given it, by the French powers
that be. One of the complaints of the
French agamlt the United States, was cer- al
tai l exp-effions againfl the conduft o the , c
Direflory, publifiied in the Ajnericau p.t- Jl
p,- r<> VVe iiave now before us, a file of j!
" The Redaaeur," the French official gas
Zftte ; alm;>(l every page of which contains
{6m: insult to our beloved President. In w
one we read thus : " The miserable Pick- a
thanks ( fagornerics) of John Adams, will w
not deceive the enlightened Americans
who like us. mu!l wilh the freedom of the
f eas .»__ln the fame paper it is added, t:l
«« John Adams has ordered a day of general
faitieß. This in truly laughable." We' tr
cou'd quote many such sarcastic inuendoes ; *
and reserve our files against tht lime
whs:) they wiil tel? best.
NEW-YORK, November 9. -
We htar that Capt. Leonard and Mr.
Rutledge had a meeting yesterday morning,
near Powles Hook, to fettle the differences
between them. And it is with regret we
add,that in exchanging a cauple of (hot Mr. '
Rutledge was wounded, though slightly, in
the thigh. We are happy to find th?t
captain L. ha 3 a£led with great propriety
from the firlt origin of this affair to its pain-
,ful termination. He neither ralhly preeipi
, tated himfelf irito unnecessary peril ( nor L
did he, when he found latisfa&ion was not h
to be obtained by a proper explanation, he- Q
fitate a single moment to seek it by the on q
ly alternative left to a man of conscious in-
tegrity and courage-
It is astonishing to what dirty, pitiful ar- f
tific«s, the papers unfriendly to government c
sloop, to further their purpose*. This is
mod visible in those which are publilhed in
obfeure villages and remote parts of the »'
country. No misrepresentations, no sals- c
lioods are too gross to be reje&ed. They a
press into their vile service every thing that
will promote their views, without regaid to
truth, honor, or the public good. Even 11
the decency of appearance is by some-entire- J
ly thrown alide as a useless incumbrance — c
The only confutation we have, is, that the -y
most of them are as destitute of talents as
they are of probity.
The Jacobin papers throughout the con- \
tinent are constantly mourning the fate of r
their brethren the United Irishmen, and
harrowing up dur imaginations with hideous
pidtures of new and more enormous taxi's,
and greater loads of galling chains, imposed e
on the unhappy sons of E'rin Why do £
they not turn their eyes to their beloved
France, groaning under the weight of the
most oppressive military government that 1
ever df grated the page ofhiftory.
We are happy in perceiving the growing (
jealousy of foreigners. The innundation of (
fufpiciou3 charaders, particularly from Ire- 1
land and Ftaiwe, should awaken the most fe- I
rious concern in every bread, anxious for
the fafety and hsppinefs of these now Unit- I
«d and profpei*ous_ States. We (hall ere I
ljng, vveTear, find cause to repent our im- *
VHIDEVT GENEROSITY,
Whathasbsenthe charafler of-the French '
nation under the monarchy ? Its flrongeft c
features were pkrfidy, intri cue, and the
mo"tl restless and Grasping ambition?
What is its chara&er now under the pure |
and peaceful genius 01 republicanism ? 1
Black as crimes can make it—more per- «
fidious, more intriguing, more venal and "am
bitious. [Snowmen's D. A.~\ _
HEALTH COMMITTEE.
Tlie Health Committee for the 1
the sick and indigent in the city of
York, beg leave t® congratu'ate their fel
low-citizens, that under Divine Providence
• his long affli&ed city is once more restored
to its usual (late of General Health, and
with th« moll heartfelt pleasure inform those
who yet remain in exile, that although a I
few cases of the pestilential fever exifl, yet
that by the late cool weather and frofls, the
contagion is so fardellroyed as to render the
morn of their lamili?s to the city perfeS
ly fafe. provided they take the necessary
previous meaftircs of cleanfiog and ventilat
ing their long unaired dwellings, and puri
fying the bedding and cloathing which miy
have been left therein during the prevalence
of the fever.
It would have afforded the committee
much fatisfaftion could they have given this
invitation at an earlier period, but they did
not conctive themfclves warrant-d by the
then exilling circumllances. There have
until the present moment been several new
caseS of fever, particul rly among those ci
tizen* who'returned earlier thin the com
mittee thought prudent, many of whom
hare fallen vi&ims tu the devouring pcfti- j i
lence. This, among other circumilances, I .
has induced the committee to withhold this j i
invitation Until the present time. The com- i
mittee beg leave furtlmr in in form their 1
fellow-citizens, that from the numerous ap
plications from the indigent for relief, they <
find it absolutely nec.effary to continue their i
labors fomc tune longer.
N. B. The committee continue thiir
meetings at the New Alms House, where
they will thankfully receive such donations
as may be offered for the relief of the poor.
By order of the committee,
GABRIEL FURMaN, Chairman.
NORFOLK, November 3.
The trial of the /hip Niger* captured;
some time ago, by the United States fri
gate the Constitution, captain Nicho'-
son, came on at Williamfburgh on Wednef
-1 day, when, after a long hearing, file was
liberated. We understand the captain of
the Niger has laid hi 4 damages at no incon
fiderable sum.
Capt- Gay arrived here on JVtdnefday from
Antigua, has handed us the following ac
count of his capture by the French, andth'ir
handsome and polite treatment to himfelf
an I crew.
I failed from Norfolk on the 29th July
last, as captain of the schooner Liberty,
bound to Barbadoes—-on the 12th Sept in
lat. 13: 03: long. 58: 00: was captured by,,
a French schooner privateer of 12 guns, and
sent to Gaadaloupe; vessel and cargo con
demned, and all hands ihrown into prison,
where [ should also have got a birth, were
it not for the humanity of an inhabitant,
1 who concealed me in his houle untii I got
an opportunity of making my escape, which
I did on the 17th of the fame month, des
titute of every article of cloathing, &c. in
jonipany with a capt. Daymond, belonging
1 to Portsmouth, (N. E.) and got to the is
land of Antigua on the 2Cth. where I luck
ily met with a friend, Mr. John Taylor, of
said ifla.id, w!io rendered meevefY al!iftao«e«
and supplied me with cloatSsaria money.
imuu bin '
. / PHIL 4 DELP HI A,
SATURDAY EVFNINO, NOVEMBER 10.
This day about eleven o'clock, our
beloved General arrived in town. De
tachments from the different troops of
horse met him on the road, at and from
Chester, and escorted him to the city.
Captains Wharton, M'Kean, Dunlag, <
Morrel, and Singer's companies of ca
valry—M'Pherfon's blues, and Captain ;
Hozey's company were drawn up in the
centre square, and as he approached he !
' alighted from his carriage, and wkh his
: secretary Mr. Lear, pafied the line un
■ Covered, to the usual salute of presented
' arms. He was justly and universally re
j ceived with-prefented hearts—never did 1
j more joy and confidence appear than his
- presence inspired. Having got into his |
" carriage again, he was escorted to Mrs.!
L * White's, ki Eighth street, where a guard
from M'Pherfon's blues was immediately
mounted, to attend their friend and chief,
• which we understand, is to be regularly
'I relieved during his continuance in this
d
;S cit y-.
if Major General Alexander Hamilton
d and the Hon. James M'Henrt, Secretary
0 at War, also arrived in town this day,
and'accompanied the Lieutenant General
t to his lodgings in Eighth street.
The Ganges, sloop of war, has come Bp
„ to the city, after undergoing a complete
f equipment. She now mounts 26 nine
.. pounders, and is in all rtfpefts, a mod com
plete vessel.
r She is now commanded by Thomas Tin
gey, Esq. who, after completing his com
e plement of men, ftor*, ammunition, &c.
. will put to sea by the beginning of Decem
ber.
Captain Dale, late Commander, will pro
h bafily take command of the Norfolk frigate,
or that row building in Philadelphia.
e ~ —
? Mr. Jofiah Fox, late of the Navy Office,
■ e is appointed Navy Conftru&or, arfd Super
_ intendant of the frigate of 44 guns building
.. at Norfolk.
It is with the greatest fatisfa&ion we in
form our readers, that Robert G. Harper,
Esq. is re-ele&ed by a majority of 1005
votes.
|_ The following extra 8 from a celebrated work
e may not be inapposite at the present time.
J LOGAN THE MIN GO CHIEF.
If Logan should swing for High Trea-
r c son, " who is there would mourn for Lo
a gan ?—Not one." Jif erf on's Notts.
ft
ie From Mr. Cobbett's Gazette.
I- Eloquent Savages.
y It appears from the Vermont papers, that
t- a squad of Indians have lately been at Ver
i- gennes to a tali with the Governor and Le
y giflature of that State, of which the follow
:e ing is a part.
Rig Fathers,
te " May the Great Spirit brighten the
is " chain ol friendship between our tribes ;
id " niay the pathway between us be kept so
ie that a little child may find it when the fun
ire " is rfleep in his blanket under the wrflern
.1 >f »
w 1 waters.
:i- [lf th<y had called them J3:g Mothers
n- the language would not have" been so revol
m This talk in point of eloquenc?, is
I much about equal to J.e fpeech of in
I Logan. The poor copper-colourtd devils 171 •
; never hatched it. It was taught them by
i some fur-merchant, and they repeated it, •
like parrott. Yet shall we, very prob bly, w j
fee some philosopher of the day, some pre- n»r
cious compound of folly and knavery, giv- in
ing this ridiculous bombast to the world as
a specimen of the SUBLIME, and as a
proof of our inferiority to these itinerant sa
vages.
As to the objeft of this Talk, it appears q,
to be MONEY. Whether the Big Fathers
will give it, is another question If they j n
have common prudence, they will not give an
them a farthing j for, if tluy once begin, t ;<
they wiilhave talk upon talk, 'till there is tr(
not a penny or a bottle of rum left in the
State.] da
To the Printer of the Philadelphia Gazette. f
DeßO.rah Logan requests you to give the
following a place io your paper.—Stenton, Nov.
5, 1798.
ExtraSl of a letter from Do J)or dat
ed Bourdeaux, September 9, 1795, to his pi
Wife. to
" i have the pleasure to inform you that i „ 6
" embirk this day on board tke (hip Perfever
" ance for Philadelphia, and shall bring with
" me dispatches for our government, calculat
" ed to rettore tliat harmony, ihelolsof which P c
" ha 9 been so fenfihly felt by both countries. — m
" Ail American veiTels in the harbors of France la
have, been released—ill American prisoners an
, " have been set at liberty ; and the most pofi- | t j (
" tive afiurances haveb;en made that France s :
« ready to enttr on a treaty for the amicable j
" accommodation of all matters in dispute. 1
•« American citizens are tieatcd with refpefl in ! m
" every part of France, and the appearance of | nt
" a reconciliation between the two republics as- ; be
" fords the lushed fatisfaiHion to all claiies of m
V citizens in this country, i/f i r >c. fii
GEORGE LOGAN." yj
ENVOY LOGAN. oi
The letter from the above gentleman as. ;
fords the best Comment on the character of
• thtife patriots, who are willing, to faerifice
the liberU of-their country, to the insidi
ous designs of an unprincipled foreign foe
—and to barter, ia the very face' of their j,
countrymen, the honor of their government
the fecurityof their most invaluable rights,
for the delusive hopes of French jullice.
As we cannot permit ourselves to doubt its g;
authenticity, the citizen envoy, with his fl
whole train of French diplomatic parapher
nalia, may be hourly expedted. 81
\_Bro<wn's Phil. Gaz.]
Very Gorreß—and not very extraordinary in •
formatiin. £
The sum total of Buonaparte's land ope
rations arc said to. be contained ia the sol
' : lowing :
, Buonaparte, after leaving the fleet in the
.; Mediterranean, marched over land in an hour
with his army to the Red Sea, through
which he an:) his brave followers swam to
1 Asia, and the day after took Sir John Ab
!] ftruther prisoner, as he was delivering a
; charge to the Grand Jury at Bengal 111
is
, The Great Nation is going to finifh the
Tower of Babel. They argue, that the S
" | confufton of tongues caa never defeat their ob
l jest, after what has happened in the Na- I
; tional Sanhedrim when every rr>an spoke at
, ! the fame time ! ! 1
'! . s
• Porcupine's Remarks on Cskto, publi/htd in
i Thursday's Gazette.
r " No, Mr. Fenno, I will not enter the
lifts with any anonymous writer, I have, as
' you fay, declared myfelf, and lam ready to n
f fnpport my opinion, and prove that I am f,
S no sickly dreamer; but I will not combat [,
with a Certo ; that would be very unfair. Q
the dispute, the little pretension I have to p
y underllanding,ftands pledged with my name, 0
> while Mr. Certd and his protean brethren
,1 run no rilk at all; for, were they, at last, n
to perceive that they were blockheads, they
would eertainly have the prudence to keep a
the valuable discovery to themselves. v
. "If any man, having the least title to re- j
fpeft or attention, will come forward in his
. own name, and aflert, thnt the XVIIIth
Century does not close with the last mo- ( i
_ of 1799, I will, without the least as
_ ptrity, or attempt at ridicule, endeavour to ]
convince him of hi' 3 error; but, as to cor- t ,
_ respondents or paragsapliifts, who write un c
der feigned names, or no uamea at all, I
fhall treat their opinions and their language
. just as to me feemeth good. £
' "I am neither disappointed nor difpkafed
at feeing such a vast majority against mc- I
have seldom had the misfortune to travel in
.[ a crowd.
g " Peter Porcuhne." c
COMMUNICATION. J
i. I have seen so much in the different News
f Papers refpeifling the end of the Eighteenth
. Century, that I cannot believe the parsons who
' firft started any difficulties on this fubjedt were c
in earnest, and I am inclined to think their as- 1
fertions have been made merely with a view of *
'k (hewing the world what serious disputes may be t
maintained on ont of the plainest questions that
e* er was proposed for inveitigation—lf you will ,
give the following a place in your paper, it will (
perhaps go down as well as some other flate
ments on this filly fubjeifl.
A Century contains 100 years
and each year contains 51 I
weeks, of course each cen- 1
tury will contain 5,300 cueeks
Eighteen Centuriqs will of
course contain 93, <OO
At the end of the year 1799
there will have pasTed away
?• 1799 times fifty-two weeks,
r- ® r . 93»J4&
On 31ft Dec. 1800 i
there will have gone 51 I
, 93 »600
We must of course wait until the end of the
r » year 1800, before we can fay 93,6c0 weeks have '
0 expired, or 18 centuries have ended. 1
m If the ißtb century end with 31ft Dec. 1799
■ n the 19th century will of course begin with the <
lit January, 1 too —Should this be the cafe the <
, s firft century must have efcmmenced with the id
1 January in the yearn, that is 11 months before
." th« cbriitian .era —for as the 19th century fce
" with a cypher, uhe firli century must start
*
in the Came way —Suppose cur Savio irhad re
mained on earth until the 31ft December 1799, >-
would ha hive been 1 Soo years old, orwouldhe
not in the middle *Y the year 1800 be in his ; a
eighteen hundredth People nay lay
what they will, but I anidetermined, if m^li r e
(hould be spared,. to fpeod at least 23 months yet
in the xßth century.-^ —fours, A. B.
" Certo," No. 11. in our next.
■Tort, November 9.
Yesterday, under the fuperintendance of j
Col. Stevens, the guns on our Battery were '
fired off by angles, with {a Service-charge v
in order to prove the strength of the works; *
and, we are assured, from the nioft-authen
tic source, that tkey Hood the (hock ex
tremely well, and are fitibr the most effec
tive defence, again It any enemy who may
dare to try their strength.
T» DoQors Currie and Deweei, attending
Ph'Jicians at the Encampment, Mafltrs's
Place :
Gkntlimen,
We feel ourfelvei constrained to make a A
public as well as a private acknowledgement
to you, for your huftiane, steady and unex
pectedly gratuitous services in attending the
diftrefled objedts under our care, who were
not only afflifted with that bitter scourge,
poverty, butalfo disease ; many of whom
must inevitably have fallen vidtimb to the
latter, had it not been for your philanthropy
and judicious prefcriptiors. An expecta-
I tion of the most ample pecuniary reward, _
j eould not have prompted you to a more re.
j guiar and unremitting attention. But to
minds so susceptible as yours, a confciauf- j
' i nefe of having alleviat«d the miferics, and :
; been instrumental in preserving the lives of |
many of your fellow citizens, is the b<"ft pof-1
fible "Retribution for fueh meritorious ser
vices.
That your lives may be long and propiti
ous is the fiticere wilTi of your real friends,
p John Injieep, 1
jfono. Roltnfon, >• Committee.
_ Isaac IV. Morris, J
; C&ajette sparine %ift.
Port of Philadelphia.
3 1 Ship Melpomonie, Majeftre, Mole, Coffee
5 Brig Hannah Carolina, J. Kobe/an
Lumber,
Schr Tryal, Barr, Salem ij days, Rum £3" Fi/h '
1 Hannah, Shippen, do. Barley & Fi/h.
Ranger, Lane, Boftop, 11 days Fi/h.
Nancy, Hart, North Carolina, 14 days
Lumber
Sloop Blazing Star, Sbadcock, from th« Dis
patch, Barry, Linens.
Almatia, Bird, New-York 10 days, Bran
dy, Dry Golds, &c.
, Harmony, Proufe, N. Carolina, 18 days
I Jus. Anthony—Wheat, &c.
Lark, Piatt, from the Dispatch, Barry, -
1 Dry Goods, &c. •
> Portland Packet, Blanchard, Portland 16
days. Plaifler of Paris 1
a Maria, Burrows, R. Island, 8 days Fi/h.
The ship Perseverance, fram Bourdeax, ~
is below, in her came passenger, Dr. Logan. 1
e Arrivals at the Fort Yesterday.
e Ship Perseverance, Williamfon, Mole, 24
' days j
■ Brig Molly, Kelly, St. Domingo, 36 days
t Molly and Lark, do 37 do r
Polly, Haward, Havannah, 40 do
Schooner Phoebe, Harris, da
• Fanny, Painter, Kingston, 38 do tl
Ranger, Brook, Antigua, 50 do tl
e ©
8 Arrived, brig Perignon, John Beaty,
3 mailer, 70 days from St. Übes—-came pas-
n fenger capt. Jacob Whittemore, of the p
I brig Farmer, who was captured on the 12th t
• of April, on his paflage from Liverpool to
St. Nicholas, within 14 leagues of the latter
3 port, by the L'Revenge French privateer,
• of 16 guns, and 180 men, capt. Grillott,
II belonging to Bourdeaux. Capt. Whitte
» more was most cruelly treated by these ma
■ raudcrs, robbed of all his clothes, money,
? and every article that could be laid hand on }
was confined on board his own vessel, and 7
Frenchmen ordered to conduit her to some
® port in France. On the 20th April the
™ prize arrived at Corunna, where (he was con
[' demned by Mr. Lagonfer, agent for all the 1
prizes sent into that port, for having Eng
-0 lifh maiiufadtured goods on board. The Far
'* mer's papers were allowed to be in the , best
order, and the cargo bonajide American pro
perty —Thus, we fee, nothing but the iron |
e role d'equipage can command refpeft or jijlice
from Frenchmen.
1
n Providence, Nov. 3.
Sunday last arrived the fbip Zenabia,
capt* William Brown, in 45 days from J
Kiagdon, Jamaica.
Lift of Prizes at Kingston the 11th of Sept. (
5 " last, handed us by Capt. Brown.
Schooner Orion, Stevenson, of Phila- <
re di-lphia, from Aax-Cayes, bjund home ; |
f. vessels and cargo libelled as French Proper- 1
ty.—Sloop Martha, Boken, from Charlef
je ton, bound to the Havannah ; libelled as j
at French Property.—Brig Britannia, Young, ]
i l ' of North-Yarmouth, from Jacquemel, bound
to Charlelton ; libelled as French Property. !
e —Brig John Jay, Broad, of Boston, from '
Aux-Cayes ; condemned on frfpicion of '
being French Properi^—Sloop Fox, of ,
Charleston, libelled as bound to an enemy's
Port.—Ship Union, of New-Ynrfc, dfl. — 1
Schooner Argo, Gardner, of Baltimore, f
bound to Jacquemel, last from Curacoa, '
whefe she was carried in May last by a
French Privateer, and cleared ; in putfuing c
her voyage, was captured and sent to King- e
Hon, libelled for having Ofnaburgs as con- t
traband, and for being bound to an enemy's
port.—Also a number of others, names un- r
known, sent in and libelled as French Pro- a
perty, when they could find no other plea.
Ij —Those mailers «ho were so unfortunate
le as not to procure bondfmcn to (land trial, -
»e were condemned without ceremony.
Capt. Richard SifTon, in a veflel from
" Baltimore, was f?nt in the day before capt.
r . Brown failed.
"• * »
SCHOOL.
ON Moaday the nth instant, the fubfcrl'ier
will opeo his SCHOOL at tlie ulual place,
in th« new building adjoiniag Arch ilreet Chunk.
ALSO HI I
EVENING SCHOOL
will commence at the fame place.
JOHN ELT.
Nov. io. 1
Imported
In the brig Eliza, capt. Peterfon,from
Lsghosn,
A SMALL QUANTITY OF THE FOLLOWING AH*
TICLIs,
Bologna crape
Cambricks aborted
Silk ftockiugs
fans ,'ji
a few fanty ribbens
Cotton blankets See. St.c. manufactured at
Lucca
Pots and (ticks of pomatum
Wa(h-ballg, &e.
a few jars Gorgona anchovies
a fniall affortraent of nrugs, Sec.
And in the Louisa, capt. Kean,from
Boud&aux,
80 cases, containing i dozen each,
Old Irish Claret,
of a quality,
40 dozen old Sautu'rae Wine,
of afuj>erior quality.
FOli S ALE BT
James Latimer, jr.
TO
John Miller jtiiir.
• Has returned to the City,
AND IS REMOVING fltOM NO. 8, CHISNUT,
T» the Five Story Bui/ding, in Dock
near Tbird-ftreet.
Where hs has for Sale
250 Bales of Bengal Goods;.
CONSISTING OF
Coffaes
Baltas
Mamoodies
Humhuins
Cairoes
'Handkerchiefs, &c. &(.
The remains of a Stock of
DRY GOODS,
Conjijling of Woolens only,
AMONGST THIM All,
Cloths
Coatings
Blankets
Kendal jCottons
Hats >y Ac.
ALSO,
100 Hhds. of Old Rum,
Of a fine flavor, 3d & 4th proof,
nov 10 £
FOR SALE,
jgfiSk the brig
ELIZA,
. AS (he arrived from sea—She is a remarkably
faft failing veffd built of Ce.'ar and live Oaky
and completely armed. JAMES TARD.
nov 10 d*w
Library Company of Philadelphia
THE MEMBERS
OP TKe
Library Company of Philadelphia
ARE HEREBY ]NFO*MEI>
the librwy will be open«d on 9"bur/day
L next, the 15th inflant,for the reception and
delivery of books. Thof? who negledl gtv return
the books, which had been borrowed previous to
the twentieth of August lait, on or before the firft
of December next, will be fined as the Rules dire St.
The Loganian Library
Will also be opened at the fame urne, for the like
puapofes.
N. B- Cataloguer of the books belonging to
these Inftitutioas may be had atthe Library.
Z. POULSOS, junr. Librarain.
Library, nov 10 ti6t
JUST AKcxIVEU,
From Bourdeaux,
And for Sale by the Sabfcriber,
60 Boxes Fresh Kaifins
128 dozen Lidies long Gloves
S >l6 ditto ditto (hort ditto
' ALSO,
An Invoice of fine Cambrick
: and Black Lace.
WILLIAM LI'NCH.
; No 8, Penn-flreet i
november 10. > diot
TO RENT,
A convenient HOUSE, about
twenty feet front with back buildipgs—corner of
' Third and Cherry-streets. Enquire of
f J. hiALLOWELL,
no. so, Walnut-flrcet.
nov 10, sdiw
Forty Dollars Reward.
DESERTED,
n From a Detachment of Men under my com*
mand, at Camp IVefl •Schuylkill, viz.
O&ober 19.
GEORGE kelleh, 40 ye&r» of age,
feet 6 inches in height, dark hair and
. complexion, born in Halliftd, no Trade, speak*
broken English and very talkative, has a dimple'
' in his chin. «
November 6. John Murphy, if years of
age, 5 rcct 7 \ inches in height, grey eyes, dark
s hair and «&mplexion, born in Ireland, city of
i Dub.in, by trades Hosier,
d Jacob Ideti, 34 years of age, 5 feet 6 inch**
bigh, grey eyes, sandy hair, fre(h complexion,
u born in New-England, ftlte of Conneflicut, &
r - repeated deserter, by trade a Blacksmith.
, November 7. William Collins, 30 yean of
l£ e » 5 feet 6 inches high, sandy hair, lre(h com
-8 plexim, grey eyes, born in Ireland, co'Lnty of
- Wexford, by trade a Gardntr, has tforkA.fl fop
, some time about Philadelphia, he is very fond
, to hei-- hiip'elf Sing.
a All the above deftrtersvare very much addiit-
T ed to liquor, and will take other people's pro
' perty if in their power, are artificially marked
on their backs, had on, when they went
their regimental clothing. Whosoever appre*
c bends said deserters, (nail receive forty dollars
- reward, or tea dollais for each, with all reafoa«
. able expences, by applying to me as above,
EDWARD MILLER, captain
id regiment of Infantry commanding.
nov 10 $
BALLAST. ■
1 A QU ANTITY to be disposed cr, if »p»l"d f »
t\. immediately, oa bond the Ship Louifs, lyi 4
• »t Mx. HUMPHREY'# S-uf> Y«'i.
novtib"! 10. %Bank of Pennfylvanta,
Septemoer 3d, 179?. » -
WHEREAS the Houle at present occupied '*y
by the Bank of Pennsylvania wit enter- p
rd on tbe nipht of ihe firft irritant, by iorar vil j^ ol
kins, who robbed tbe inftitnfion of sundry on (
Bank Notes, amonjrll which were the follow phi
ing post notes of the Jknlc oi New-York, viz.
No 1001, dated 13d of
iffje>i in favor of Seabring Be, daf<
Van Wyck, for 39*> 21 hall
No 1003, dated ajth of Anguft, 1798', r 'f4'
issued in favor of Montgom- w >"
ery and Newbold for 1150 ceeci
No 1006, 27th do. do- do. 2000 .* n '
1005, do. do. do. do. 20,00 11
1008, do. do. do. do. 2000 ? '
<OO9, do. do. do. do. 2009
1010, 28th do. do. do. aooo acc °
1011, 60. do. do. do. 2000 tion
ion, 30th do. do. do. 1500 con l
1013* do. do. do do. 1000 a •
AJfo fotidry post notes of the Bank of Penn- lir(
fylvania, dated 23d Jaly 1797, iiTned in favor
of George Hughes, for one rlioufand dollars
each, and sundry post notr< of said Bank, da- f
ted of Jbly, 1797, iflued in favor of Geo. haz
Hughes, for five hundred dollars each and in pod
dorfed by him. The public arehert»by eaution- c*te<
ed agair.ft receiving the said no:e*r-and a ,ie- is ri
ward »f TWO THOUSAND DOLLARS is tion
hereby offered for the discovery and ronvi£lion circ
of the villains v/ho perpetrated or are concern I
cd in the said robbery, in addition to the reward g OO
offered by the Governor of the Commonwealth t0 1
in his Proclamation of this day. on °
By order of the Board,
JONATHAN cafhier. "
HAPPY DISCOVER f. ing
A certain Cure for that alarming and dreadful Disorder uyii
The Yellow Fever, 1
' ire
As -well as any other dangerous putrid fever, fever and
ague, and other inveterate and complicateddifeafes, By CU p
*e life of lie bni
POUDRE tJNIQUE, be
WELL known and patented inEngland,France, the
Pbland, and all the capital-cities in Europe, f ro:
whete the molt ait o«u (King cores have been effect- to i
ed on persons judged iscurable by all physicians. the
In a Treatise printed in Loncion, on the properties we i
of this powder, by T. Seymour, M. D lateChe- len
mill to his Majesty, there are stated two hundred CQt
cases, where this most valuable remedy has proved p ro
infallible, in ell kind of fevers, pleurisy, bloody flux, 1
inveratc rbeumaiifms, fciat'ua, apoplexy, pmalyjie, yet- ftoi
low iairtf.ee,■ ringworm, wo'tms !p childrenand in grown ]
perf*ns, white*, chronical bead and flemeich aches, hepa- lati
tick and nephretical or Jlone cbulic, the tings evil, [curvy f ecs
and the mcjl inveterate and complicated venereal disease, It tan
' islikcwife the best prepa»ative for thefraallpox figi
and mealies; ol tbe greatell utility for young as ;
well as for elder ladies at the critical epoch of their tioi
life. The efficacy of this pow.der;n faveral of the pet
above diseases ias been dilcovered by chance, and ne%
so it has been in the yellow fever last year, by Mr. as 1
Mahy, who cured fevqral by administering only the
two of the said powders, aud loft not a fingfe pa- if
ticnt vkfiicfi he undertook to cure, as proved and if t
attelled by the here annexed certificates, whose ori- the
ginal may be seen at Andrew Hadfeg's umbrella flip, pa)
Aj I3r, corner of Chef nut and Fourlhfircets, the on- dui
)y place wh re these p6wde'rs are to b« had, with ed
proper dirc&ions for the. use of them.—PriceJwe cor
dstlari. 6f
The uftfulnefs and certainty of thi3 remedy be- ant
' n 3 f° J?reit for so many dangerous difordeiS, aay ins
perfm wiihing to be provided with those powders,
will pieafe to apply vry soon, as the quantity at pri
hand is rot very large, and it is doubtful if for a ap]
lang time, or it ever any other genuine will be im- fli
ported, the fscret remaining only iti the hands of
the inventor, ill Europe, and never Kehigcommu- m;
nicated to, Ctr difcovrred by aAy oih#r person. th<
N. B In the yellow and putrid fevers, this pow
der aiuft be take* th» locond, or at Wail the third tal
day. ei {
We the fubferibers, durirg the .late fictA'Cs in or
thf» iit'y, haviiig taken the y llow fever, applied to ed
Mr. M ahy for his medical affiilance, We do here- lik
by c#t;ti'y, that by a certain powder, called the pe
Pouii-e Vrirjue, we ware perfectly recovered from
the said fatal sickness, and from an experience of rlt
the happy tffedfs of the above moll valuable medi- mi
cii>e, conuder it our duty to make the fame known, no
for the benefit of our fellow citizeirs. «u
Margaret Jones, ty
Mylus O'Connor, PW
JofTe Turner, m'
Ckriflen Rebecca Dow,
Catheri:? npple, ta
Ann Grover, ve
William Bills, y«
David Williams, carpenter, of
William T, Donaldfon, mad-maker. bt
Mr. Mthy's well known Plaifler, for all kind of th
wounds and fores, to be had at the abovedirec
tion, No. 131, Chcfnut ftraet. fh
august 8 2awtf qi
For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub- b<
fcribers, on Walnut ftrect Wharf, a
195 casks of nails ftlTorted b;
20 bales et fail canvass, from No. I to 8 fii
j 3 calks yellow ochre J
1 j tierces bottled porter, 6to 14 doz- each P-
Loridon particular ) Ma(3eira wines
India market )
Tenenffe do. in hogsheads and pi-p
Old Port do. ill hhds. "
Empty Cliret bottles f
6 cal'e» of Ginghams, Dimities, MuflifleU|icc. ,l
assorted for the Weft-India market *'
4, 10, and 9 inch cablesand 10 coils of cordage" *1
Writing fates, ink Hands and presses
20 puncheons Jamaica rum tl
I bale framing twine e;
160 bundles sheathing paper p
Nick/irt & Griffith.
April 7 tuth&f.tf £
This Day is Published, li
AND FOR SAL IBY J. rE N NO, 11 Q.CH IS MUT-S7 Ra tt *
AN ADDRESS «
To tbe People of Maryland, d
ON the origin, progress and prefeat state of a
French aggression, with a sketch of the infamous ,
attduptf to degrade theOoverHment of the United ;
Statel, and fonie refieolioos on the late proceedings s
in Cor.grefs; written the last of April in the pre- |
font year, by a Member of the House of Reprefen
tativas. 5 l une " J
This Day Publijlwd, ■
Ajid for sale at the Office of the Editor, No. ,
119 Cbofnut-ftrtet, ,
(Price \-%tb of a Dollar,J ,
JN ORATION,
Pronounced July 4> 1798. 1
At therequeft of the Inhabitants of tlie Town ef
BOSTOfi, in commem«»ration of the anni- :
*erlaty of American Independence. ,
By Josijib Qorttcr.
«' The inroads upon our public Ifterty, call
for reparation—The wrongs we havefuftained,
call so—"Justice. That Reparation and that
JulHce, may yet be obtained, by Union, Spirit,
anJ Firmrfe:*. But to dividr and csaw-r was
the maxim of ulie Devi! in tbe garden of Eden,
and to AisuniU and emUtve hath been the pnnci
> pic of all his votaries from that period to the
on the Listo'i Port-Bill, lSfc.f>. ? j
ty tbe late J. %uittcy, jua.
august
PROPOSALS, | be
BY TH* ne
Insurance Company if North A merica. E d
For Insuranci Firi, on Dwelling- lr |
Houfcs, Ware-Houfcs, and other Buildings (and P 1:
on Goods c.n»avned in fucb Buildings) diftint from 1 ri '
Philadelphia, in the United States. dr;
I. Common lufurancei, on hazards of the firft pa
cJafs, will be undertaken at a premiUiß of ahout thi
halt per cent, per annum. For extra hazardous or
rifijues a larger pVeir.ifm will be required, which J e]
will vajy according to circunftadces, faidem ex- ot)
teeding one per cent, per annum ; but in some i-n
---llances, where the property insured » not only in
itfelf extra hazardous, but rendered still morefo tQ _
by the vicinity of extra hazardous buildings and n)(
occupations, the premium dtmandsd will be raised
according to ciTcamftalncts.
Houfcs and Ware-Houses, the walls and perti- .
tions of which are wholly of stone or brick, well
conftrufle J, so as t« be guarded as well as may he
against fires from wkliin, and tree from extra ha
tardous buiklings and their neigh- d!
borhood, will be hazardous of the firft
' olafs, and may be infnred wthekfull vahie.
Also Goods and Merchandise, not of an extra 'jp
hazardous kind, in casks. bales, or package-s, de
pofitcd in ftich buildings, to an amount not ex- _
- caeding 4000 dolhrs ; but if more than this sum fV
- is required to keinfurei in one tenement, an addij
s tional premium will be required, in proportion to „
1 eircumftances. ,< J
11. Insurance* will also be made on buildings a»d ~
J goods extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
t| to tha risque. But it is not cafy to at-range these
under pirticnlar heads or classes, so as to describe -
each with the necessary accuracy. Each caf* imuft
- therefore be decidSdwpon according to the circum- .
- fiances attending it; and these ciitumftances wili, .
in general, appear from the defcriptioo accompa
r uying the application;
Buildings partly conflruiSfctd of brick or stone,
are preferable to those wholly wooden. And in
both cafe 6, the stile of building, how they are oc
y capied, how they are fituited, the neighboring
bnildings, and how occupied, are confideratious to _
be taken into view. And vdth refye<sl ta goods,
e , their tindsncy, whether frbm their nitarc, or
c, from the manner in which tbey are exposed, either
t- to commence or to in.crease an accidental fire, and
»• their liability in such state to receive damage by .
■ s wet, or by sudden andhafly removal, wto be fto-
len in time of confufion and hurry, are all clr-
cumflances of weight j and the premiums must be
d proportioned accordingly.
<1 111. The following conditiont are to be under- r'
I- stood by the parties . j u ,
'» ifl. The Insurance is not binding till the flipu
-- lated premium be paid ; but itfbali ba deemisd ef-
7 fe&ual from tha time of such payment and accp- f J
It tance thereof whether the policy be immediately
x signed or not. . C u
is 2 d. Insurances ri«ay be renewed at the expira-
if tion of the term of the policy, without further ex
ie peufes than the payment of tlia premium of the re
d hewed term, the circamftaoces continuing the fame
rj as they were ahdarftood by the Insurers at the time
y the farmer insurance was made ; but the paysncrit
1- of the preniqnk is eflential tft such renewal ; and
d if the party insured! fuffers any time to elapse after -r
i- the expiration of tie former insurance, before he
p, {rays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
1- during such time j sor can the insurance berenew
:h ed on the former policy but by computing the
vb commencemmt of the renewal fr»m tbe expiration
6f the former insurance. The fubjeil of insur
e- ance may neverthetefs be open to treaty for a new
iy insurance.
s, 3d. If any otherinfurance be made 011 the fame
»t property ;it must be made known at the time of
a application, otherwise tlie policy made on such ap-
1- plication will be void.
as 4th Goods beld.in-twfl, Or on ponfignment,
i- t»ay be infurad as such in a separate policy ; but
they are not tabe conCdered as infuied atherwfe.
v- sth. This company will not be tiablc or accoun- "I
rd tablefpr any lufs or 4wnage occasioned by any for
eign invasion, orby.»ny military or usurped force
in or by poafon of any civil commotion \ or occasion,
to ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or other thing of th
e- like kind kept in the building, or atnongft the pro
lie perty insured.
m 6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu
of rities, Title Daeds, Money, Bank and other pro- -1
li- miliary Notes, are not included in any infarance ; J
n, nor are paintings, -nedals, jewels, gems, antique /,
auriofities, or mirrors exceeding the value of tw«n- g.
ty-five dollar s'cach, to be considered as insured une t j
Ifcfs particularly mentioned aed by special agree- <j
mcnt. o
7th. No insurance will be made for a fliorter t,
tarm than one year, nor for a longer term thanss- t .
ve» y«ars. Persons choosing to mfare lor seven
years (hall b eallowed one year's premium by way t ,
of difeount: One third of a years premium shall K
be abated in like maimer on an infuranee for
of three years. .
ec- Bth. Losses sustained by fire an property insured, _
fiiall be paid in thirty days after due ptouf and li
quidation thereof, without deduction,
l" A defciiption of the property .to be iilfurod will
be expeifted with each application, to be mado by 1
a matter carpenter and signed by him, as well as
by the owner of the building or applicant for in- a
furatice, and attested before a Notary or principal r
Magistrate, who will certify his knowledge of the t
! parties and their credibility. t
With refpea t# Heufes and other Buildings,
ill. The site and poOtion ; describing the \
ftrtet or road on or near which the building r
fta'nds ; its contiguity to water, and other clr- I
cumftances relative to the extinguifhme»t of fire 1
See. in cafe of accident; and particularly whether 1
any /nd what fire companies are eftabliftied, and 3
age" engines provided, in the place or neighbourhood.
2d. Tbe materials of which it is built, whe
ther of brick, stone or wood, and what part of
e'ach, as well as to the outside walls as inside or
partition wails, and their refpeftive height and ■
thickness; the style of the roof and of what
I materials; howfecurad by battlements or par
.— ty walls; what kind of access to the top of the
house and to the chimnies ; whether any and
!tT what eleftrie rods ; the number and kind of '
fire places ; and the kind of deposit for ashes.
3d. The dimenfjons of the building and how 1
divided, and (he style in which it is finifhed so
°f as to enable indifferent perfsns to judge in what
lOU9 manner it it to be repaired or r'ebuilt in cafe of
■ted injury; the age and condition of the building,
in 2® and how occupied, whether merely as a dwel- j
ling house, or for any other, and for what pur
fen" pcfe ; also aneftimate of thi value of the houle
1 or building independent of the ground.
4th. Tlie fituatioti withrefpefl to other build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
,0 * not, comprehending arleaft one hundred feet
each way : what kind of buildings are within
that distance, how built, of what materials, and
how occupied or improved, whether as dwel
lings for private familiaa or otherwise : whe
ts of ther any and what trade or manufactory is car
nni- riedon, afid particularly whether there be any
extra hazardous articUs used, or usually dep«-
sited in the hsirfe, or within the distance afore
call said, and of what kind.
Red, Refpeflibg goods in Houses, Warehouses, &c.
that 1, A t'eneial description of the building in
'irit, which tbey are kept will be expeiled, similar in
was all refpedls, as to the digger from fire, with that
den, required for Insurance on the buildings them
inci- selves.
the 2. A description of the kinds and nature of
the goods, whether in calks or other packages,
». 78 I or opened ; and whether displayed in whole
'■ pieces or in the ul'ual form for retailing. And
i; the goods vary materially in kind, a general
*
lefHmsae of t>e..value «f etcli kirffl propefej tr>!
be insured ; but m the lalt particular n&tmiie
nefsof drfcription it not expeited-
Articles of the following kinds are deem
• ed extra hazardous, though in various degrees,
. in whatever buiWing ihcy may be pjaced, viz.
j pitch, tar,turpentine, rtrf'n, wax, tallow, oil,
1 inflammable fpirits,fulpiiur, hemp, flax, cotton, Co
dry gsiods of an inflammable kind opened-
Gfcife, china wire or porcelain, efpeciaiiy un
-1 packed; Lacking glasses, jewel cry ; and all o
t ther articles mors than commonly inflammable, A
» or rrore than commonly liable to injury by. fud
-1 den removal or by meifuires, or particularly
" obnoxious ts theft on an alarm of fire.
Letters part paid, direfled to the Secretary of
1 the Board of Direftors, will be duly attended
J to. Ah order for Insurance accoorpar.ied by the
J means of paying the premium, will be imme- __
diately executed pn the premium being paid. If
I tke application contain an enquiry onfy, it Mill r ;
I be.anfwereil. >S ta
By order of the Board, \ i nc
; EBENEZEK HAZARD, Sec'ry. h QI
. Office of the Insurance Company Nortk ) tQ
t America ; Philau. Feb. I, 1798. 5 refl
Feb. 14. xamtf wi!
» TREASURY DEPARTMENT, ?£,
Juk* 17, 1798- the
i "\T OTlCte 1S HEREBY GIVK N. That by vir
. JL\ tue of an ait, paflVd during the prufent fcf
' fion ef Conerefs, to much of the aft entituled
3 " An Ail malung further provision for the sup
, " port cl public credit, and for the redemption
j" of the public debt"—pet Ted the third day of
March, cue thousand fevtn hundred and ninety
five, as bars from fcttlemeiit or allowance, r ~j
. Certificates, commonly called Loan Office and J
final fettlcment Certificates, and Indents of In- del
ferefls, is suspended until the twelfth Ay P tie
'* June, which willbe in the year onethoufand tcven r«]
hundred and niptty nine. th<
That on tie liquidation and fettlemwit of the cai
'' said Certificates, and Indents of lntereft, ot the fti.
Treasury, the Creditors will be entitled to receive o\\
Certificates of funded Three Per Cent. Stockequal inj
to the amount of the said Indenc*, and the arrear- loi
ages of intercft due on their said Certificate, prior Fo
' to the firtl day of January one thoafand tfeven
hundred and ninety one.
That the principal fumsof the f-iid Loan Office
and final fettlcment Certificates, with the interest
_ th*repn, since the firft day ot January, one tliou
fand feveu hundred and ninety one, willbedif
chirged ajter liquidation at the Treasury, by the
payment of intcrefl and ri imbutfsweat 01 priotl
. pal, equal to the luins which wouliT have been
payable thcreoh, if the said Certificates had been
fubfesdbed, purfuaut to the ASs making provision
[■" for the debts of the United States, contrasted dur-
ing the late war, and by the payment of other
fuirtS, cqu.ii to the market value of the remaining
Stock, wjush would have been created by such
fubfiriptiont, asaforefaid, which market value wiH
be determined by the Comptroller of theTreafury.
~ OLIVER WOLCOTT,
lt Sccrttary *f the Treasury.
Ie ju°e 28 iawtf
d FOR SALE,
II The Cargo of the Schr. Sincerity
d Benjamin Montcith Matter, from Laguira, o(
.. CONSISTING OF
ie 945 Fe»egas of Cocoa
in 4003 lb. ol Flora Indigo
r . 210 Bales of Cotton
w 4 Packages of Goat Skins
By Willing! & Francis.
Ie » No. Eteveath-Urect.
of july 2: dtt
p- " ' ~ '
Madras and Ventapaulem ff
'*• HANDKERCHIEFS, 11
ut Searfaukers and Carradarries, r :
n . of the ueweftandmoft approvndpaUcrns,entitUd j
t . to-the drawback, just received, q
e . ANB FOR SALE »T fa
n, Alt*. J. Miller Cj>.
h- No. 64, South Front street.
o- may 18. $
_____ : 0
t>- TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
0- t-v ESERTED from my Detachment at Bordeo
e j 1 J town this day, n Marine, by name Gctrgt •"
ue Rodman, a Native of Ireland about 25 years of age
n " fira feet eight or nink inches high, dark compiec- t(
nc tion, black hair tied; black eyes well made and j
:e " qoarfelfoaie, when in liquor is fond of singing—had p
on a blue seaman's jackett light pantaloons, cot- a
:er ton Stockings, round Hat, and had under his Pan- fl
' £ - taloons a pair of Nankeen Breeches.
en Whoever apprehends and fends the said Defer
ay tsrtothe Marine Camp, (hall receive the above
a " Reward.
r ° r v HENRY A. WILLIAMi, j
■Odlober 11, 1798 L t. Marines
— h
h - ADVERTISEMENT. fl
•11
rill
by XTTHEREAS JamisCummimo IS" Co. late ol 0
as W the city of Philadelphia, merchants, have
in- afligDed aver all their effeAs, real, and
pal mixed, to the lubfcribers, for the benefit of all
the their creditors, who fliall fuhferibe the tald allign
ment within fix mouths from the daw hereof,
s. NOTICE rS HEREBY GIVEN, to allperfons
the who ar? indebted to the said estate, that they ara
ng roquired to make iauiiediate payment of their re(-
:ir- peclive accounts, to theAffigaees, at tlicir office,
Jre No. 62, Dock street, in failure whsreof aitiom ?
ler will be instituted for the recovery of such debts as 1
j,{l are not discharged accordingly. '
od. John Travis, "1 £
Job" IVaddingtan, [ m t
of james Taylor, I ° >
v* Cornelius Comegys J 1
ind i august 18 rawftiD
hat ' 6 1
,ar " Wanted to pur chafe. j
d A PPROVED bills on Amsterdam, for which f
[" r J\ cafli will be gwen at the rate of thirty fe- ;
ven cents per Guilder, Apply to the Calhier of
0 W the Bank of the United States. i
Iso I September 22d, 1798. '
Mrs Mails for South-Carolina & Georgia,
ng> "pACKETS are now provided for carrying the
vel- : X Public mails by water between Philadelphia (
IBr - and Charleston. They will leave Philadelphia
>uit on Friday's. Th» port by land will be continu
ed twice a week until an experiment is made in
lild- regard to the expedition and regularity of the
! or packets. If any person chufes to have their
f«t letters sent by land only, they will please to
thin wr ; te t - ne WO rd Land upon the letters : other
and w jf e they -will be feat by that conveyance which
"■e!" will firft start after the letters arc left ia the
irhe- po®-office.
car " Joseph Haberjham,
Pojl-Majler Cemerl.
ore- Philadelphia, August ij, 1 §
&c. Peonfylvania. Hospital,
l in 9 mo. I, I7>B.
lr > n "KTO psrfon with an infectious disease, can be
that j\j admitted itilo this house ; it is therefore ear
icm- neftly recommeuded to the citizens, not to fend
or bring any such patient to the gate, who is ill
e of with the prevailing fever. Several persons having
igcs, been sent here improporly, is the reason of giving
hole this caution.
And By Order of the "> rRAKCI3 HIGGINS,Stsw'd.
leral Sitting Managers,J
"
' - Bengal Goods,
CONSISTING OF l<
BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS,
Chintz Coffas Maharazgungy l er
' Chintz GuzziaasJ Tookercys
Eliabad Bitra* Wrought Muslins c
1 Long Drawers _ "
- Coarse Sugars in bags, fit for the European markets U F
A "°' H,,r
Carolina l«digo ° c
Coffee in hoglheads
, A few pises of very old and very choice Madeira ln '
WINE
For Sale, on reasonable terms, by
John Cncig,
F No. 12, Dock-itreet. rol[
1 i"'y 14 , oth.
Ten Dollars Reward Ito
j. TAESERTED from the Guard House in New don
I ) Caflle, this moriring, Bowden, a _C
1 : private Marine, ieltmging to the Frisa,te United
'Scat«s. He is about years of age, five fee: ten
inches high, fair complexion, light hair. bine- eyes,
horn in England, and by trade a Tftickiayer. Prisr
to the Jth of June, the date of his he
resided in Flnladelfiua, where it is probable he
will endeavour
prehend the said deserter, and secure him i i any j;
' jail within the United States, fliall be entitled to
the above reward.
F. WHARTON, Capt. Marinas. p a ,
DUTY on CARRIAGES. s«
, Sta
Notice is hereby given, >
THAT agreeably to an a& of Congress of the ' a »
United States of America, pafiVd at Pfcda- tw<
delphia the 28th dr.y of May, 1796, l»iying du- cire
' ties on carriages for the conveyance of persons, and Ap
1 repealing the forraier ails for that purpofe—fliat fiv<
there lhall be levied, colle&ed and paid, upon all Cai
: ciTri?ges for the convyauce df persons, whkh De
: &allbe kept by or tor any perlon, for his or her rizi
: own use, or to lat out to hirf, or for the convey- 0 f
1 ing of passengers, the several duties and rates Ui- y e
lowing, viz. doHs.
r For and upon every coach IJ j n g
3 upon every chariot 12 n(^i
upon fvery post chariot 12
e upon every post chiift 12 o j-
I uponevery ph-Eton, with or withoHttop 9 ,
upon every coachee 9 ol ] ;
uposi other carriages, having panne! ~S
e work above, with bfiods, glasses, > 9 ! irc
ur curtiins J
n - upon Crtir-whei-1 carriages, njving'J
n frailie polU and tops, toith fleel > 6 ' oll
n springs 3 we
uponfour-whseltop carrlagos, with ") pri
r wooden or iron springs on jacks j fev
g upon curricles whh rops 3 do;
h upon chaises with tops j inj
H upod chairs with tops 3 in 1
f. upon sulkies with taps 3 or
upon other two wheel top carriages 3 ed
upon two wheel carriages wiih fleel") in j
or iron springs j tlx
upon every four wheeled r j l(
having framed posts and tops, > 2 CQ
y and relling upon wooden spars y
' The Colleflor of the revenue ol the firft divifioil
of the firft survey of the dill rift of Pennsylvania,
: will attend daily until the 30th day of September .
, next, .'or the purpose of receiving the duties on
at Germactown, on the Main street, a
little above the sign of the King of Prussia, of ®
winch all persons poffefTed of such carriages are
desired to take notice.
Notice is also given,
T* To all rrnil dealers in wines and foreign distilled m
1 spirituoUs liquor!,, that licenses will be granted to
them ; one licence for carrying on the business of
retailing of win « in a less quantity, or in less
uantities, than 30 gallons—jnd one licence si r I(
fcd atrying oO the kufir.-l's of retailing fpiritaous li« ot
quors in lefc iiuantittes than twenty gillsns, at the
fame time aiid at tiie fame place, by 'J 1
JAM'ES ASH. w
Colleilor of the ifl division of tie ift
Burvey of thediftrift of Pennsylvania. so
Office of Infpe<Sion at Germantown, > d(
22d August, 1798. j A
n- E'ery denomination of Stamps to be bad ar
.g, at laid office. <ll
ge 0- The Stamp Press is removed 01
c " to the Office of Infpcclion in Germantewn, on the cl
3< | Maia f.raet, a little aiove the figa of the King ot rt
Pruflia,—where attendance will be given for she c '
't- accommodation ot thole who wiih any inftrumtnts 1 '
n- ftampad, on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdeys, cl
UgU'ta a 1
re Wants Kmployment, °
A YOUNG MAN, who hasferved i regu- ti
lar apprenticeship to the mercantije bufi- ri
neHs in this city, wilhes to engjgo in a Conuting ft
~ house orofl\c«, writes a good hand and under- si
Hands accounts, can be well recommended ar.d I
security given if required. Enquire at the ii
0 j office of this Gazette. b
,e June 21 q
Bafkeiuidge—for falc k
u TT consists of 92oacres, »lmoft all of which is
X a fin? rich Meadow, (the rofidenceof-the late f
ins Eirl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dnided
into five farms, four of which are bounded on the .
East by the river Pafaick.
c Th.r* are on itatiumber of buiMings, forming
afquare of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house J,
a , is a very convenient one and t afmallcxpence would '•
put it in complete repair.
The orchard conufls of IJOC finsbearingengraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other pirtsoffaid t'
trait near 300 othtr Apple Trees—as also a £teat Ii
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the b
best and mo£t delicious kinds.
I Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and ii
ForeftTreo.', that add to the beauty and eonveni- f
ence of the place. Its fitiiation is about 18 miles t
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : jo do. I
' c b f rßra Morris-Town, and 12 front Springfield—lt
fe- j s wooded and watered.
•of To favc trouble, the price Is five pound pr. acre
incafh, oa delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Cbsfnut treet.
cbsuary %• eodtf
»,
Patent Ploughs,
jjl 4 be fold for eafh by Joseph Salter at Atfion
X Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry—Jonathan
m Harker, Woodbury —and Jefie Evans, I.usnber
(jj,. ton, Tbofe who have used them give them the
le ; r preference to any other kind, as tfcey require
t0 less team, break the ground better , arc kept in
ier _ order at less expence and arc fold at a Reaper 1
,j c j, rate—the plan is much Amplified and consists of :
t j, e but one piece of cast iron, with the handles and
beam ps wood ; they may befixed with wrought
lay 9 and coulters to be pat on with screws and
taken off at pleasure
Patent lights tor rending with inftruftioiw for
§ making them may be-had by applying to John
Newbold, or the fubferiber No. 212 North
Front-street.
g Whs has for SiJei
1 Or to Leaf: for a term of Hears,
ear- A. numbed of valuable tradts of Land, well
fend Ctuated f«r Mills, Iron A'orksor Firms, moll
is ill ly lying chiefly ia the county of Han
ging tingdon state of Pennsylvania. Tbofe who may
ving incline to view them will please to apply x»
John Canan tfq. near Huntingdon.
I Clarlts Ncvjlold.
I july *7 22Wtf
PROCLAMATION.
BY virtue of a precept fromJouN D. Con,
Efqaire, piefident of the court of Oyer and
Terminer and eeneralgoal delivery for the trial of
all capital unJ other offences in the county o£
Bucks ; end Henry Wynkoop and Francis
Murray, judges of the fame court —A court o£
Oyer and Terminer, and general goal delivery,
will be held at Newtown, in the said county o£
Bucks, on Monday the sth day of November next.
All those who will prosecute again ft the prisoners
in the goal of said county, arc required to be then
and there to prosecute agaisft them as lhall
aiui all the ju ft ices of the peace, coroners and con-*
ll&bles, Within the said county, are required to be
then ah 4 there,in their proper persons, with their
rolls, records, iaquifitions and examinations and
other their remembrances, to do those 'hings which
to their offices belong, in that behalr to be
done, &c. DANIEL THOMAS, (heriff.
Pit. 4, 1798* 3 taw
FOR SALE, BY
John Miller, Jun.
NO. 8, CHESNUT STREET,
100 hogflieads RUM,
Of high pr<sof and fine flavour
july 19
AN ACT
For the relief of the Refugees from the Britfk
provinces of Canada and Neva-Scotia.
o T) E it enaSed by the Senate and House
...c. 1. 0 y Representatives of tlx United
States ef America, in Congress ajfembled, That
t j farisfy the claims of certain persons claiming
lauds under the resolutions of Congress, of the
twenty-thjrd of April, one thousand l'evcn hun
dred and eighty-three, end the thirteenth of
i April, one thousand seven hundred and eighty
five, as refugees from the Britilh proyinces of
I Canada and Nova-Scotia, the Secretary for the
1 Department of War, be, and is hefeby autho
rized and direiled to give notice in one or mpre
of the public papers of each of the States of-
Yermsnt, Mafiachufetts, New-York, Kew
* Hamp(hire and Pennsylvania, to all persons hav
ing claims under the said resolutions, to tranf
-1 te the War-office, within two years after
| the passing of this a<2j a just and true account
1 of their claims to the bounty of Congress.
' See. 2. And be it further enabled, That no
' other persons (hall be entitled to the benefit of the
( provisions «< this a<9, thin those at the tallow
ing descriptions, or their widows and heirs, viz.
First, those heads of families, and single per
; sons, net members of any such families, who
were reOdents in one of the provinces afore/aid,
prior to the fourth day of July, one thouland
* seven hundred and feventy-lix, and who aban
j daned their settlements, in consequence of bav
l ing given aid to the United Colonies or Stately.
J in the revolutionary War agai-ift Great-Britain,
} or wish intention te give such aid, and continu
! «d in the United States, or in their service, dur
-3 i»ig the said war, and did not return to reside in
the dominions of the king cf Greatrßritain,
1 prior to the twenty-fifth oX November, one
thousand seven hundred and eighty-three. Se-
I cottdly, the widows and heirs of all such per
sons as were a&ual rcfidents, as aforefaid, who
" abandoned their settlements, as aforefaid, and
l ' drcd within the United States, or in their fer
n tice during the said war : and thirdiy, all per
a sons who were members of families at thetirae
,f of their coming intatheUnited States, and who
e during the war, entered into thttr service.
Sec. 3. And be it further enabled, That th«
Jroef ps the fevwal circumstances nectflary to.
♦ntitle the applicants to (he benefits of this adl r
may be taken before a judge of (he fuprem* or
j diftriiSl court of the United States, or a judge
p. of the supreme i»r fliperior court, or the f.rit jaf
r rice or firft jildg« of the court od common pifat
or county court of any Slate.
1C Sec. 4. And be it furtbtr tnafled. That at
the expiration of fifteen months from and after
oUe passing of this ail, and from time to time
ft tWea/ter, it (hall be the duty of the Secretary
for the Department of War, to'lsy such evi
dence of tlaims as he may have received, before
the Secretary and Comptroller of the Treasury,
,d and with them, pruceed to txamine the tefti
ftiony, and give their judgment what quantity
(J of land ought to be allowed to the individual
claimants, in proportion to the degree of their
3 t refpedtive services, faciifices and ioffei ings, in
, e consequence of their attachment t« the cjufe of
n the United States ; allowing to thafe of the firft
s cla»s a quantity not exceeding one ihfoufand acres;
and to the iall clafy a quantity not exceeding
~ one hundred, making such intermediate claffei
as the resolutions albrefaid, and distributive juf
u- tice, may, in their judgment require, and make
si- report thereof, to Congress. And in cafe any
ig fooh aiaimant (hall have fuftaified such lofles and
r- fufftrkigs > or performed such fcrvitfes for the
■d United States, that he cannot justly be clafTed
he in any one general cla'fi, a separate report (hall
be made of his circumstance», together with the
quantity of laofl that ought to be allowed him,
having reference to the foregoing ratio : Piy
vided, that in considering what compeßfitiiti
'* ought to be made by virtue of this ail, all grants
except military grants, which may have been
f made by the United States, or individual States,
C (hall be considered at the just value at
the time the fame were made, refpeftively, ei
tlier in whole or in port, as *»>' tit, "a
Jd fatisfaiiion to those who may have received the
fame: Provided also, that no claim under this
as. law, (ImII be assignable until after report mide
lid to Congress, as aforefaid, and until the fa;d
:at lands be granted to the persons «miiled to the
he Uenefit of this afl.
Sec. 5. Beit further enabled. That allckiirns
nd in virtue of said resolutions of Congress, which
ni- (hall not be exhibited as aforefaid, within tha
lei time by tV» ad limited, (hall forever thereafter
Jo. Ue barred.
-It JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives
ere TH : JEFFERSON,
en " Vice-Prefdent of the United States,
and Preftdent »f the Senate*.
:et " Approved, 7, 179s
_ * JOHN ADAHS^
Pr(ftdent of the United States*.
Depofiled among the Rolls in the office of t|ie
ion Department of State,
ian Timothy Pickfring,
er- Secretary of State K
the
& Purfuunt to the above Aft, No
per tice is hereby given to aU perfcns hav
* ing claims under the resolutions of Corv
gtt grefs, of the 23d of April, 1783, and
wd the 13th of April, 1785, to tranfmitto
f or the War-Office within two years after
ahn the'faffing of the said Aft, viz. the 7th
,rth day of April, J 798, a just and true ac
count of their claims to the bounty of
Congress.
In the proof of Claims, a ftrift atten-
Lan- tion must be' paid to thf of
II the 2d and 3d Sections of tlie Aft.
1 Secretary of War.
July i) iawftvr