'sss£#tafeS, ™ Philadelphia Daily AdverliUh
J] - By J6aw Ward Fenno, N°- 119 Chefnui Street.
■ ' • ' } ' * ■'■ ' I , ■» —I | « < 1
. _ . , v » - „ r-T»- rrfV4
frUMBER 1910.3
£s* Remote Subscribers for this Ga- Pi
zettc are requested to forward pr. post,
'"the arrearages due from them respective- %at| [ t;
\y. Postmasters who may have recciv- natha;
cd fobfcriptions are earnestly desired to *
remit the fame. At this interesting anu Ugfcad
to this notice *£*
will peculiarly oblige the Editor.
• = 8 ' 4 5
Philadelphia ,' September 26. 5
HPHEMaiI for New-Gaft!e, Cantwell bridge, x >
1 £) l)c t creek, Dover, Frederica, Milford, ! >
beorge town and Dagfcorongh, Delaware ; J »
Trop and Snowfill, Maryland, Horn Town,
Accomack couit-ioufe, aad Northiirapton court 7.
house, Virginia ; WMI be closed at this office cv- 7>
erv Monday, Wednefnay and Friday at halt pail *s>
eWht o'clock, A. M. unt'.l ill day of April, J s>
1 *
7 ROBERT PATTON. 33.
I
September 26
'"i" Blink'of th? United States. 8,
Philadelphia, Stptlmber at, 179"^-
The public is hereby informed, that
an Office of D:pofit and Difcmnt will bo opened
on Monday next, at.tjie houft lately occupied by
Samuel Ricuardit, near Hie Market House in
Germartown —where the bufifK-ft of this Intuitu
tion will be tranfi&ed during the continuance o.
the malignant fever now rre vailing in Philadelphia.
HENRY KUKL, Ajjijlant Cajhier. j
gi-rteni'' r
Bank of Pennsylvania.
THE Bank of Pennsylvania is removed to Ger
mantown, —where the btfifiefs will be transaCted
tolnorfi/W, in the Union School Houf^.
JONATHAN SMI TFT, CaOurr.
er 4 §_ ,
" TEN DOLLARS REWARD. fgg
DESERTED last night, a second time, from s o] ,
the Marine Camp, David Lufer, a fife-. fit
He had when he went away, a plain l luejackit and ;o f(
' vest light bine overalls,a round hat,which had bun
bound with yellow, and which lie had ripped off (h -
in his Era defcrtiou, and a pair of new flioes. he is »
a Carpenter by trade, has grey eyes, fardy hair
fallow complexion and a nitch in his upper lip.
His back is fttll fore from a flogging he got a few I
days a«! He may ba discovered by his fifemg, equa
as he plays extremely well. cOns
f r . W. BURROWS Major Com. of the tern
O&nber 17. Marine Corps. mad
Wanted to purchase. thi 3 "
APPROVED bill* on Amsterdam, for wliich arric
cafe will be gi -en at the rate of thirty fe- w ;i[j
ven cents per Guilder# Apply to the Calhier of pnci
the Bank of the United States. f 0 t *
'September iif\. cred
For Sale. ki £
r ■ 'HE Subscriber, intending to decline the th e
J. DRUG BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the the
whole Stock of thii
Drugs and Medicines, Instruments, &'_• pub
The (hop is elegant, commodious and feffici- amy
ently known for the bufinefs (one in the fbal
wholesale ani retail line ; die fttuation e.iual to j at t !
any In '*
Second ftrcets. The whole, or any part ot the ,n*|
Stock, will ho fold, as will bel> suit thepirrchafer. p fo
Tha terms may be known, by applying to the
JAMES MOORE, JOM. t)t h,
IVlo has For Sale, nia.
lor the river trade— |
The Peggy, about 3otonsburthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and retnarkaoly I
flout, of an easy draught of water, rigging in I
good order. _ |
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
well, and in complete order for the lumber hufinefs.
gy* All persons indebted to the late firm j
GvUtLivait 13* Baldwin, IV. 3' Goidtbivait, Golu- I
tbxe'ait 15* M»ore y or the fubferiher, are earnestly
requested t® make speedy payment to
JAMES MOORE, jun. j
august 3 § 1
Ship & Insurance Broker,
THE Sufefcflber, encouraged by the advice j
of his friends, offerc his lervice to the pub- I
•lie as a SlUp LiU.rjt.' .' Broker. —.—li« pro- |
poses to b-.:y and fell velTels and every thing re- I
lating thereto—affilt malUrs of velTels and others I
m entering and clearing at the Cullom House, I
procuring and (hipping freight, fettling Iniui-I
ance and all other ineruantile accounts, and have |
on hand theneceflary Blanks Stamps. I
Papers in foreign languages translated, and 1
information given in general mercantile matters 1
—From a kuov.lcdge gained by long experience I
of every b.rancu ot btilinefs he hopes to be use- |
ful to those who please to favor him wi;h thoir I
commands. i'AMUEL EMERY. I
Philadeiphii, august 14th, i;qß. 1
City Commissioners' Office, I
August jo, 1798. 1
IN purfa?nce of an ordinance of the Seleit and I
Common Councils, passed the lid day of May I
1795,
l'ropofalsia will be received by the City 1
iConui.ifliuners for one month from thefirrtof Sep I
tembcr next, for letting to rent on leafas far one I
year, to commence thje firfl day of Januajy next, I
the following public property of the city—
The wharf .md landing on Vine ftreec, j '
Alio on S.fTafras, I 1)
Mulberry, 1 li
And High (Ireets. I b
Cheftiut anrf W: lnnt (Ireets, Draw bridge, witl I
#he Scale and t'lth houfss, Spfbce, Pins aud Cedar I
greets. j
Thij Cellar under the City Had. 1
The Tavern at the rridille fcrry on Schuylkill. I
4with the lots contiguous thereto so much I
thereof as (hall b« occupied by any buildings erec- 1
ted for the use of the Collector of the Toils, or be I
iieceffary for the toll gates ) j
A slated meeting of the City Commissioners will ,
1* held at the City Hall ev«ry Tuesday morning t 1
feu o'clo k, during the present epidemic, eoim |
TO BE LET, ~
Jnd immediate possession given ; i
A t-arge coavenient, well finilhed house. N« I
J\. iij High-street, lately occupied hv Doe- <
tor Wiflsr, with Coach koufe and Stahles j
Enquire of WILLtAH SHE-^FF,
A 7» 168, tiigh-Jlrut.
j«}jr 31 1 |
PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 31, 4798. [Volume XIV.
Public Notic; is bereb j hen,
Pi AT Propofals'laivr feale'.'covers, will bo
re«jived o.a ta ■ be'ivt of the United States
»ntil the tweiitict.. (lay ot Jciohfr next, by Jo- As w
• nathaa Jaek!'o:i, Esq. «t K - Lflachuttts, 4g*t
, Tencjf Francisj T?f<J. Poit»4.!p.i:'-, Pennfylva- tij*
nia, an 4 John Swa.in, E(q. at-Ualtimorc, Ma
ryland, for fuppiying the following articles of TT J
. cioathitig, tor the army of the United States, VV
viz. where
FOR INFANTRY.
or. Inal
8,443 Hats, of thi
504 oerjeartt Coits mist t
JO4 ditto vefU ca se s ,
, 1,008 pairs do. woollen overalls infalli
( 1,008 ditto do. linen ditto
. i,oi6 ditto lliirts latum
t 264 Musicians coats pcrf.m
t 7,680 Private* coates tick an
7,944 ditto velts and tit
\ 15,888 ditto woollen overalls is like
; 15,888 ditto linen ditto ar.dn
3>>77fi ditto shirts well a
33»79i pairs of Socks ''f e -
pairs of fooes J b ? Vf
8,448 itocksof black leather foitl
8,448 (lock c alps Mali;
; 8,448 blanket,.
'• tient
t FOR CAVALRY. atteti
d 6 Muliqans coats ginal
f 2b Serjeant coats f"' ?
n 26 ditto veils 'y P' :
J 104 ditto Oints P r "l"
348 Privates coats dM "',
1 354 ditto vello in f<
1416 ditto ihirts iicrfi
_ 76s pair of Leather breeches '
760 pair of lice king. )iand !
r . 760 pair of loots lenrr
380 Stocks or biack leather p ort(
380 Stock ciafpi the;.
380 Blankets. _ nicat
id. Every article fball be made <Sf materials,
equally good, and in form, or fallimn, conform- r
ably to patterns far the farse, lealed with the <j a y.
m seal of the War-Office, and which will be de- w
~ polited with the several gentlemen, empowered <
to receive the proposals, as ahove ir.enti»i»ed. ilr.
2d. Sworn InfpeAois (hall be appointed on by c<
J j s the part of the United States, to examine and Foul
determiee upon the several articles aforefaid, the f
when the fame tnall be ready for delivery, with *^ e f
full power to reje" every article,»»hich Oiall not " f:Si
ig, equal, in goodcelii of materials, or to be made lo ' 1
conformably to, the faihion of the standard pat
he tern for the fame; and no allowance (hall be
made, for any article whirfh fisall be rejetSled by
them, for the causes aforelaid.
3d. The proposals uiuft fpecifv the number of
c " articles, and their kinds, whici) the party is
e " willing to furnift, together with, the lowest
prices for immediate payment in -noney, s#d al
io the prices, oh (he iongeft term, or terras of j Ist
credit. ' wou
One third of each, and every of the several tion
kinds of the above articles, to be delivered on ai
the the fifteenth day of December, one third ou
'h® the fifteenth day of Jariuai y, and the remaining
third on the suit day of March ntxf; and the (
public wiil not be eon ft tiered a< boutcl to receive
ici- any of the aforefaid -articles of cloathing, which
the fhali not be ready for mfjjeclian, »iid delivery,
to 1 at the periods agreed upon- _ — t _ r- t~
„.i. -ftrrrfttr cTDSfffihg aToreTaid wll be received
the in the several dates, at the places, and in rhe
er. proportions following, viz. One third part of Sir,
the whole at Springfield, Maflachuletts, one
cither third at Philadelphia, state of Pennfylva- bor
nia, or at Lamberton, state of New-Jerley, and spit
onfc third at Baltimore, Maryland. tlol
hk. sth. No contrail will be made, for a less to 1
S' number of each of the aforefaid articles of ing
cloathing, than is requisite for a company, viz. nef
FOR THE CAVALRY. [/ r
j 4 Serjeant Coats foo
ibly I 4 ditro veßs oui
sin i 16 ditto (him I b
1 Musician Coat 1 b
lils I j8 Privats coats hai
jess. 59' ditto yelts iut
n«l I 136 ditto fliirts wf
Ma- I 63 flocks it i
:ftly . 63 stock clasps thi
126 pair of leather breeches
»• j 126 pair of ttockings
§ I 126 pair of boots
- j 63 blankets
FOR THE INFANTRY,
vice j 70 Hats
jub- I 4 Serjeant coats -
pro- j 4 d.tto vests
r re- 8 ditto woollen overalls
heri I g ditto linen ditto
use, 16 ditto fhirta
ifui -1 2 Musicians coats
nave j 64 Private coats
66 ditto vests
and I 132 tfitto woolen overalls
tteris j xjz ditto Linen ditto,
ence I 2 (, 4 ditto Shifts
use- 1 280 pair of Socks
heir I 280 pair of Shoes, v
70 Stocks, q
JJ I 70 Stock Cla'ps,
70 Blankets.
JAMES M'HENXY, w
I Secretary ef War.
I War Department, 7
' % '" y 21ft Sept. 1798. 5
Scp Y I Weft-Indian from Madeira, j'
r one I
" Xt ' I (tJ" Those Gentlemea who have Wines t(
j on board the Weft-Indian are informed (he is n
I now discharging at South-street Wharf, are |i > " u
I lieited to hallen down their permits the Vellel b
I being immediately wanted, Peter Bliglft.
witl j Who wants te Purchase, r
j loQ Barrels of good Prime or Mess Beef a
| 100 ditto Pork y
ylVill 1 7 or c< '' tto our ®
much I 4 or scoo buffiels Indian Corn. t
i erec- I LANDING
0r c I From the West-Indian,
I A choice parcel of old particular
f'W' 1 Wine in Pipes fit for Immediate use.
in S 1 I august 15 fiot
eoim | ° J
£? Wanted—Afituation in aPub- i
1 j 1 lie or Merchants Office, or to go as Supercargo,
fe, N« I by a person regularly brought .p to the Mer-
Dor-I cantile and Insurance bufineis in London, he has
t-s I lately been a voyage from hence to the. Weft-In-
F, I dies as Supen-argo, can be well recommended,
rcet. I —Please to enquire St the Printer's
y lauguft 11
1■ * i
HAPPT DISCOVERT.
A certain Cure ftr th:' l . alar and dreadful T)if»r<ftr
; The Yellow Fevec,»., A
As itxll as any other danverons pu'rid fiver, fever and
, and inveterate ami complicateddifeafes, by Vl * l
tit use of tLi 33 i c
POUDRE UNIQUE, Jr :J .,
f known and patented It) ji«gland f F?ahce,
, VV Poland, and all the capital dtirs in
where ike moit cure? have been effeA
ed on persons judged incurable by all f.hyfic?an«. . 1
In a Trcatife printed in on the prepertias a rca(
of this by T. Seymour, M. O. late Cke-'
mifl to his Majesty, there are stated two hundred 1 '
cases, where this raoft valuable remedy has proved e^ )n j > P
infallible, iu all kind of fevers, pieurify, bloody fmx,
iMDerute rbeumatifms, sciatica, apoplexy, pmalyfie, yel- , ,
loiv jaundice, ringworm t "ivorms in child* en and in grow*
persons, nvbitet, chronical bead, and fltmacb aches, btpa
tick and nebhretical or fione cbolic, the ki"gs evil, [curvy , U
and tbe mojl inveterate and complicated venereal disease. li f lc jg n
isiikewife the best preparative for ths imail pox
andineafles; ot the greatest utility for young as
well as for elder ladies at tUe critical epoch «f their *
life, i'he efficacy of this powder in iwcral <>*hc j.
above diseases kas been discovered by cliance, and , oq
so it has been in the yellow fever lift year, by Mr.
Mahy, w)|D cured several by adminiftcring only mn^e]
two of the said powien, and loft not a fmgle pa
tient which he undertook to cure, as proved and • - n
atteOed by the here annexed certificates, whose ori- _
ginal may be fcen at Andrew Hadfegs umbrella jht>p, f
iV#,. 131, corner of Chefrsut and FourthJlreeU, the on-
Jy place where these powders are to b« had, with *
proper directions for the use of them.—Price two . y *
doUars'
The ufsfulnefs and certainty of thij remedy be- y IOT r (
ing so great for so many dangerous dfforders, any rv
person wiftiiu<* to be provided with those powders,
will please to very frwn, as the qu*atity at
liand is rot very large, and it i; 4<>ubtful il for a
l®ng time, or it ever any other genuine will be im
ported, the reinaiutny osdy m the hand* of
the Inventor, i» Europe, tn. never being comma- lron
mcated to, or discovered by any other person. ,
N. Bln the yellow and putrid fevers, thispow- J
der mud be taken the iecond, or at Kail the third
he day. re ™
e- V\ r e the fubferibers, during the late sickness in
ed (his city, having taken the yellow fever, applied to
Mr. «iahy sot his medical afidance, we do here- ,
on by certily, that by a certain powdtsr, cal'ed the '
nd Poudre Urijue, we were perfeAly recovered from
;<J, the said latil sickness, aud from an ciperionac of
!_[) the happy CffeKs of the above mod valuable raedi- !
10£ cifie, conlidar it our duty to make the fame l.nswn,
for the benefit of our fellow citizens.
, t _ Margaret Jones, v '
Mylus O'Connor, \/'
, C JeiTc Turner, a.
"y Chriden Rebecca Dow,
Catherin apple, , h ' ei
. Ann Grover,
' s William Bills,
eft David Williams, carpester, ,
al- William T.Donaldfon, mall-maker.
0i , Mr. Mahy's well known Plaider, for all kind of '
wounds and fores, to be had at the above direc
ral tion, Wo. 131, Chefnut ftrset. w ;j
on august 8 aawtf ar£
on
ing ANOTHER STRONG PROOF
Of the great and unparalleled efficay of
'Jh D*.. CHURCH'% COUGH DROPS,
ry, Ir the CHre of a
Cwr l.\ C'I J \ rf.Miiwj HvtuwitpitUTlS. ~—
,'e(l New-York, July 10, '798.
the To Da. Chhkch, r-w
of Sir, 1
one For upwards of Tears, I have la f m
va- bored under a severe Cough, (hortnefs of breath a n'<
and spitting of matter from my lungs and often of fur
clotted blood, till at length I was so reduced as
less to be unable to walk across my ro«m, and ow- ~
of ing to the vi knee of my cou,;!i and the (hort- r(
viz ness of breath could get no reft day or night.—
Hearing of your excellent medicine,, the Cough
Drops, I procured a bottle ; I took a dose as
focu as 1 got it, from which I found instantane
ous relief, and by continuing it for three days,
I bless God lam restored to perteft health. As
1 believe you to have been the inflrunient in the
hands of Providence, of saving my life, I itjuft
intreat you to publijji tbis fur toe benefit of aay
who triav be in my situation, as 1 api confident
it is one of the best medicines in the world for
those complaiuts.
J am, Sir, yaw grateful iervvr.t *
NICHOLAS STAGG,
Lit.'le RobinsQ.yitreet.
CHURCITs COUGH DROPS,
Are prepared and fold by thelnyentor and sole j
proprietor, Dr CHURCH, at his Ddp*nfary,
Wslhington-ftreet, Neu-York, and at his of
fice, No I, South Third-street, Philadelphia,
and fold by appointment at Mr Weedman's 118
William-street, and Stilwell & Deforeft, 161
Pearl-street, New-York. Mancius, Albany,
Price, Baltimore, Thomas, Alexandria, Wil
son, Wilmington, &c. &e.
OBSERVE,
As a counterfeit preparation of (his medicine
has been induftriauily circulated through fojtie
of the principal cities iu the United States, per
sons are requested t'i purchase them of such per
sons only as have Dr Church's appointment for
vending the fame. Powers, i'oughkeepfie —
Chappel, Head of Elk —llond and Co. New
caftlu —Heinitfh, Lancafifr —Blauvelt, Brunf-
Y wick fN. J.) Gordon, Trenton, &c,
Patients letters (Post paid) addrcfled to
" 1 ' Dr Charch, New-York, duly attended to.
august 20 tatwsw
~ Public Notice is Hereby Given,
PURSUANT to the ail of Congress, pasTed
on the I2ih day of June 1798, entitled, ,
V ine« (< I{] cffpecling Lnan Office and final fettle-
Ihe is mjiit certificates, Indents «f interest, and the
ire S > " unfunded or registered debt credited in the
e^e ' books «f the Treasury."
\ht. ,)t. That 00 the application of the creditors (
refpeilively, or their legal attornies at any time
f after the last day of December in the present
year, the princi al /urns *( the unfunded or re
gistered debt of' the United States credited on
the books of the treasury, or commissioners of
Loans will bereimburfed at thetrtafury of the
United State*.
' »d. That interest upon the unfunded or re
ticular ;fi crc( j ,j e b tg aforefaid will cease from and af
ter the left day of December in the present year.
* lot -d. That the creditors refpeftively will be
~ entitled on requisition to receive from the pro-
Pub- per officers of the treafuTy, certificates t.f fund- 1
•car~o ed three per cent stock, equil to the arrearages
e Mer- of Interest due oa the debts aforefaid prior to
he has the firft day of January, one thoafand seven huu
'eft-In- dred asd ninety sue.
Bj ordet of tbe Board of Cominijftoners
' of tbe Sinking Fund, j
Edward "Jones, see'ry.
I
• FORSALE,
SALISBURY.
A LARGE end weU improved farm, contain
upwards of twenty ftve hua ired «cre» ot le- J
vel fertily fu&d, remarkaUy n'.epi >"a »refs, ihi
an i every cf gralaj " r "' '- *" e hun- Wlloa
Jtsd acrv-s oi I ijn-KAy imsmdow on it, Vp® *ot A«niai
eicelltd, troin which, 1 have cut thii y«ar between queftc
one hundred and und two'hundred tons ot
hay; upwards of liirec Inun-ired acres nior* oi tail order
1 .ad tnay be converted into meadow, eqnal to thit rc
already made, the greater pait of which nuy W 1 ing he
watered at a fmali expence. There are ° n I ffo up.
land, a commodious two flfory dv.*eiliag-houle v UUIVS
completely with teii rooms aud Vi , n>
eight of the rooms have fire places; a pof.aco m
front, fifty-leet in length, and tight wide; ,a large
paled garden, a well or excellent water ia the yvd B
also a barn fevetKy-ttfo feet by twenty-Cx, witk 1 1
ihedt at the tides aud ends, fufheient to hv-id iiity ths Cii
keap of black cattl.-, a well coultro&cd liable, lav <
ftcient to hold twenty haxfes; with every other an( j fcllJ
building that may be convenient or uitful tor a
family ; us wards ol three hundred awplc tree*
(just beginning to bear) ot cholen graitcd truu, on
with a number of cherry, pear, qumce, and dame
ion trves, upward/* ot two thouland bearing peach » r
trees. About one fourth of thi land «nd
under good fence ; th* pallure lands :ire takwn, 1 r
with red clover and other valuable grass. iie re
mainder i» in woods and generally well timbered. cj
Thi whole well watered, having fcvural •
springs; and two streams running diiV. r
ent p*rt« thereof, on one of them is a Coun- Freuc
try grift ciiil, and a law mill. The purchaser can atteai
have tmmed'uttf pofTcfiioil, and may be acccrtijmo-!
dated with twenty valuable field negroes, with in Co
horses, black cattle, (hcep, ami every necif- fcn t y
fary farming utenlil: Silifebury is in tx- fativ®
ccllent ncivjhhoiiihood, and remarkabie healthy, ——-
is twenty-Hi mile* by m alurement from Alexan
dria, about twfuty nnlisfrom fotomacU bridge at
the Littic Faiih, as-d not more than twenty-ftvc
fron. th« dry of V. aud tlv. pou road
Irom Alexandria to Winchester, A small part of
the purchase monej, will be required in hand; one, >
two. and three years credil will be given for the
remainder. i
Mr. Zaccheus Collins of Philadelphia will give
any gentlemen who appiy to him>n account of the
situation of this piaes. For further particulars ap- gj. t - r
ply te the l'ubfcriber on the premift*. _L—
-1 SAMUEL LOVE.
Virginia, Fairfax county T^v
September 24, J?w ' X-/
ADVERTISEMENT. P r ' v;
btat«
_ , . inch(
WHEREAS James Ccmmiso V Co. late ol born
the city of Philadelphia, m.rthants, have t0
aliigned over all their efie-ls, real, personal and rd fnJ
mixed, to the lubfcribers, for the benefit of all w j[|
their creditors, who H.ali fubferibe the said aflign
ment within fix months from the date hereof.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, t» all persons J {he
who are indebted to the said estate, that they ara
- required to make immediate payment of their JJ
pective accounts, to the Aliignees, at then office,
' No. 62, Dock Creet, in failure whereof adioni
will be instituted for the recovery of such debts a« T>
are not discharged accordingly. -LJ
John Travis, "J R<A>
John IVaddington, I Affi
James Taylor, f
Cornelius Curr.egys J on
august 18 _ nawftlß too
~ TO BE SOLD,
THfi time of an indented Dutch Servant BOY tjr
who has ten years to serve. He has had the
a small pox and measles, is a&ive, hearty and ftron^.
h and fit fw house work in town or country. For
further information, esquire of the printer,
s august 4 * i
t- For Saie,at the Stores of the Sub- B
fcribers, on Walnut street Wharf, j,|'
'' 195 calks of nails aflorted
lS 20 bales •flail canvass, from No. I to 8
5 " 5 3 calks yell,iw ochre Oy
3 > i j tierces bottled potter, 6to M doz each w ;
f London particular ) M>f! eira Wines Bu
® India »iarkrt ) . Al
Tenerifie do. in hoyfheads aud pip in
'y Old Port do. in hhds. am
llt Empty CUret bottles am
" r 6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Mufiineti &c. (l,
aflorted for the \\ eft-India market th<
4, io, and y inch caVcsand io .coils of cordage ro
Writing states, ink Hands and preset otl
20 piircheoHs Jamaica rum to
I bale seaming twine do
tie 160 bundle. lieatnlng paper _
y. Nkklia Griffith.
'f- april 7 tuth&fjf
ia, ' ; ■
gj Bengal Goods, w
lV CONSISTING GF
il. BANDAWNA WAMDKERCHIEF3, «h
Chintz ColTas Mahirazgungy
Chintz Guzzir.as Tookereys
: l)e Efiabad Baftas ' Wrought Muffins
Long Drawers
r . Coarse Sugars in bajjs, fit for the European markets
ALSO, X
'" Carolina I»digo
" r Coffee in hogflieads w
A few pises of very old and very choice Madeira r
»'• W'IMK V
For Sale, .n reasonable terms, by ®
John Ct&igy
(0 No. 12, Dock-Ureet.
July 14 mw6tf 7
NOTICE.
• n ' Bank of North America,
Tcd Augujl 2%th, 11798.
r-|-iHOSK Perf.ns who hive N.tesoi Bills to pay
t,e ' J at this Bank are informed,
C That regular Notices will be put under a feaied
the ever direded to the refpeitiva payer and lodged
in the Poft-Offico every Monday untH the return
ror * of the citiapns.
ime RICHARD IVELLS, Caftvr.
' ent aug. 19 drl - .
on SOUTHWARK.
sot OSober 8, 179^*
the "OUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY
£ GIVEN, That the Commifßdners of «
as. the Diftri2l of Southwark have removed
■ear. their Hall to the usual place, commonly
I be known by tbe name of James Litle's School.
P r0 * House, in consequence as the rapid decline ,
of the Epidemic Fever, especially in the
3 r E " vicinity thereof.
. By order of the Board cf Commtjfioner
Wn>. LINNARD, President.
Attest,
id, ! William Penrose Clerk, pr» tem.
V. O&ober 9
f
CUSTOM HOUSE;
Cbrficr, 13d Q&*
NOTICE ■
To the MERCHANTS of Philadelphia.
The owuers and cotiCgaees of good* by tli*
Wit.um Peun, Philadelphia, Jane, Kiogflon v
AmuWe ;md vefle« lately arrived, are rW
quelled to forward to thi* Office as iocs at pof«
iible, their refpeclivc «Btrie* and invoices, in.
order that per:r.itsfor landing jxu.y La prepared,
and ready to hand theoi, so fiion a* the
ing health of the City will admit the veffel| tp,
go up. A due attention to Uih notice may be of
tnnvemeace ta the its, who probably
Wilt Ik; tieftious to rec?ire thsix gondi very tx
peditioufly. v GEQ. LATJMEtt,
lot Collet! or,
THE Owners of Goodson board
thsjhip William Pk.vn, ire inier.ucd rhac the
Coll. iJof of the L'uitofus wi.l receive lucii iievoicev
and entries as rruy befonvurde-d to him, and will
make the iiecell'arj caleu itiona ai»t pr;pare tha
bonds l'> tha 1 permits may Le granted imxediawly
on tiw .Tiriv.il of the {hip at Phi iadelphia.
Oilolier »3. ■ J iw '
This Day is "Published, "
4SiOtO«S*L[By J.ftNSO, NQ,CHHNUT.III|i r
AN ADDRESS
To the People of Maryland,
ON the origin, progress and preftst [Ute or
French ajsrtUion, with a iketch of the infcuuou.
attempts to degrade the'Uyverament of the United
States, and sonic rcfivcliofl? on tlie late proceedings
in Cor.grefs; written thc.fcijl of April in the pr>.
sent year, by a Member of the House of Rejirefcn
tativw. § juoen
Pennsylvania Holpital^
9 mo. i, U9*.
NO psrfon T»i«k zn i: difcafc, tan be
admitted into this house; it is therefore car
neftly recommended to the citizens, not to fend
' or ring any such patient to the gite, who i» ii{
with the prevailing fever. Several perfous havthg
been feot here improperly, is the reason of givii.■»
this caution,
Managers,} FRANCIS HIGGfNS,SIruftL
Ten Dollars Reward.
DESERTED from the Guard House in New i *
Caltle, this morning, STim« Bowdes, a
private Marine, belonging to the Uctted
Stat.s He is aiout 36 years of age, five feci ten
inches high, fair complnien, light hair, blue eyes,
born in England, and by trade a Bricklayer. Prior
* to the jth of June, the date of his enliltnwt, b*
j resided in Philadelphia, where it is probable ha
will endeavour to go. Any person who will ap
prehend tht said deserter, and secure him in any
jail within the United States, lhall be entitled to
* the above reward.
* F. WHARTON, Capt. Marin...
Nsw-Caftle.Oft. 8.
TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
l! "TVESERTED from my Detachment at Borden
xJ town this day, a Marine, by name G«r-»
Hodman, a Native ol Ireland about 25 years of age
fiv« feet eight or nine inches Ugh, dark eomp'ec
s tion, btack hair tied', black eyes well mads and
quarrelsome, when is liquor it food of singing—had
on a blue Teaman's jackett light pantaloons, cot
too Stocki*gs, round Hat, and had 1 nder his Pan
taloons a pair of Nankeen Breeches.
, Whoever apprehends and fends the said Defer-
Y tir to the Marine Camp, shall receive the abova
he Reward.
«! Odoher 11, 1798 ? HSNRY A. WILLIAMS,
or ' j Lt. Marines
PROCLAMATION. ~m,
BY virtue of a precept from Joon D. Coxe,
Esquire, preß&tnt of the court of Oyer and
Terminer and general goal delivery for the trial of
all capital and other offences in the county of
Mur«ay, judges of the fame court—A court of
Oyer and Terminer, and general goal delivery,
wili he held at Newtown, 111 the said county of
Bucks, on MouJiv the sth day of November next.
All those who wdl profecutc agamft the prifonera
in the goal of said county, are reqaired to be then
and there to profecutc again ft the.ii as (hall be j aft—
and all the justices of the peace, coroner* and con
kc. (UtUs, within the said county, ere required to bo
then and there,in th«;ir proper perfotit, with their
age rolls, r< cords, inquisitions and examinations and
otli«r their remembrancer, to do those things which
to their offices belong, in that behalf to bo
done, &.C. DANIEL THOMAS, Iheriff.
Oa. 4, 3«w
FLOUR FOR SALE
_ By the Suhfcribert,
Deliverable at any of tha pwrti on the Dela
ware—who have alio on hand st their (lores, *
quantity of Barlron, Pork and Ccrn—Letter.
the pott will be attended to.
Levi HoUingsworth Iff Son.
augtaft 28. dtf
~ WILLIAM M'LAWS, "
Itctt SADLER 55* HARNESS MAKER,
HAS Removed to the Corner of Chefnut
and Twelfth-ftreeti, on the Commons,
I. here he will receive and execute the orders of
lis friends and wholcfale customers, with usual
attention & expedition during the prevalence of
the prefect Epidemic, wtieie it has not made its
t appearance this feal'on, nor dvriag any ef thf
tf y ear » 1
aueult 25 5
The Cargo of the Schr. Sincerity
Benjamin Monteith Mailer, from Laguira,
pay CONSISTING Of
' 945 Fenegsa of Cocoa
aled 400s lb. of Flora Indigo
]g»d 110 Bales of Cotton
turn 4 Packages«f Goat Skins
By Wtflings (if Francis.
f. No. Elcveath-flrett.
julv a: dtf
" "" Madras and Ventapaulem »
HANDKERCHIEFS,
;BY Searfaukers and Carradarries,
rs of of t' lo seweft and mod approved patterns,eotitl«4
, x to the drawback, just received,
an» roa sals by
onl T Ah*. J. Milhr & Co.
10 °1* No. 64, South Front ftre«t.
cliae may f
FOR SALE, BY
oner John Miller, Jun,
( t, NO. 8, CHESMUT STREET,
io«> hog(heads RUM,
Of high proof Uii fine Savour
j«lr '»y>ujf unsifted in jlnps William Petin, A- .
miaj>le r/il Jecn,fram London,
• Tsnntityof Cannon, Sizes 4,6 k 9 lb.") irith Vj'ls
a-ronades, [ 1 lbs. j fuitaW-.
Mufquefs, MrfqHeroons.Cathffes and") Gd
Pi fob, for (hips use, |
Hfl'd I arn l"d < iu>v Fowling Pieces, 13^
>*d Hnrfrnf' >'s Pi <ol», |
4 x rfxw Fimts, c.irfly 'or mulkets, in ! ?-
. I u
V e o J yq
H-1 ulation U<rht Drag-oon Sabres, with Iran Seab
oards in etc* 01 sc, iach.
Light Cavalrv Kws-fls in Ctfes
t*ai>res. Sxvorcli and Cut tail s, with plated monntiaj
Ironmongery i d (Cutlery in calks, a general ai
lorun nt —l or Sale by
Thomru & Jno. Ketlaml, |
Phil at!. OAnHcr 25.
Ship Brokers. ,
This T!flabli r h»r»ent, commenced Hy the late Mr.
Samuel Smith, will he continned by
Row ss» Simmons,
WHO refpe&fylly acquaint the Merchant,
Tradei 1, and Masters of vefTel ; Mat n<*,
pai'a or -xertJons ftnll be wanting to give general
fati«f»&iou .Thisbufinefs will be at their
S*»r?, Mo. i 07, Sowh Water Street, nieir to the
Hon ft.
ry <T»f
For Sale, or Charter,
JjK/fttrv THE DANISII BRIG
Louisa,
NOW lying at Burlington, a vc
tv faft filler.—For teimssrpyto
JACOB SHOEMAKER„
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
Tier cargo, of about 2,000 bulhels of
St. Martin's Salt.
10 mo. 14th, *9B (iiot.
~ ' REMOVAL.
r "J" , HEoffice ertthe Secretary m\ the.Ccroiviiffiin
\ JL ers tor carrying into efife>St the twtTity-firit
* Aticleof the treaty »f friendfhip, limits and navi
gation, hetween Hit (Catholic Majelly and t'le ll
nited State# of America, is, for the pi-f«nt. r«uiev
ed from Mo. 54, foath Second iireet, ro a large
two story brick house on the right hand, yu>in>j
op the Germantown road, ufu'ally called Matters'
house. .
Thole concerned are in formed that, notwith
flandingthe prevalenceofth?Tover in Philadelphia,
daily attendance been, arfd will continue! to be
given at the fai l office, until the return of the citi
zens ; St that on rh« seventeenth day of November
next, the terna ofeightuen months will expire since
the day on which the commilConers ailVmMed
Iter which period 'no complaints cr applications
• 11 hcfiibly be received by thetn
l,erti r» and inclofures post-paid will beduly at
tf tided to I>y.
PETER LOHRA, Secretary.
Prober 18, 1798. 5 tot
To Be Let,
For Six Months, from the firfl of Novem
ber next,
A COMMODIOUS three .lory brick house,
with extetifive bark building, fitualed
No- 15,5, South Second St'-eft. — For terms
ipiily to
J.AMIvS LYI.E.
South Screnth, near Cl efniitipStreet.
Oelober 59 dtf
To Be Let,
Anil immediate po[j,fion Given,
ACOM MOtM OUS Brick House
with convenient back building', fitnatett
• t tli< noi h -vef' corner of Third and Walnut
ilieets. —I iir terms apply to
,Dr. THOMAS PARJCE.
No. 20, South Fourth Street.
Ofloh"" 1Q dtf
To be ibid or Rented,
THE fib/criber's house, No. 78, Wafeat
flrctt, with a c*lta* and iwo (Tables—Poficflion or
the house will be given early in November-^—tbt
ft?.bles and cellar immediately.
# -GEORGE MEAD. * }
October 24, " •
. " A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
Jon:; A SIIAEFrES, who has c
sot a few years pall betn in the fouihern state*, j
has had the, effrontery to draw fcvcrat BjIU- of Ex- a
cliang® on Tinrothy dickering, .Esq. Secretary of c
Sfutr, and mjielf.and by that means has defrauded n
a.number Ot" persons of their money, 4ec< ivmg
tVin, by an exhibition of l'trersard papers wich the
oamcs affix id of divers public and repu *'
table merchants highly recommendatory of said
bhatHer; to one of rhefe papers! find my name v
»wbfcrib«d, but Ido not k"ow the man 5 these are T
villainous forgeries! To prevent further imposition,
I have to* reqneU the print- rs of Ncwfpapers in the I;
ignited States topubliih ih»s f«r the benefit oftheij a
follow-citizens. S.V4UEL MEREDITH,
TrQafurct of tbz[ United Stotm
f <rfo\ 3
Ofkbcr 1.1, 17 9&. (
< Bank of Pennsylvania,
Septrtnber jd, 1793.
WIIERKAS the Houie at present occupied
by the Bank of PennfyWanu was enter- L
<d oil the night of the firS ir.ltant, by some vil
lait\s, who robbed the inftltutioa of sundry
fiasik Notes, amongfl which were the follow- 1
iitsj post nctel of the Bank of New-Yofki viz- w
No ipoa, dated, 1.3d of Augufl, 1)98, Dolls 0
iflucd in favor of Seabrii g 4c 1
V»n Wyck, sot 396 »a *
No »oo:,dated 25th of Augw.ft, 1798,. tl
ilTued in favor of Montgom-
ery and Newbold for iljo
Jfo 1006, 27th do. do. do. 2coo
1007, do. do. do. do. jooo
iocß, do. do. do. do. 2003
ICO9, do. do. do. do. 2000
1010, aßth do. (Jo. do. 2000
joii, do. do. do. do. 4000
io,U, 30th do. do. do. 150 c
>6x3, _d°. do. do. do. 1000 ■"
Also sundry post notes cf the Bank of Penn £
{ylvjrna, dated 23d July 1797, issued in favor !l
0: George Hughes, for one thonfand dollars u
each, and sundry poll notes of Cj.id Bank, da
ted 151b of July, 1797, iflWd in favor of Geo. r<
Hughes, for five hundred dollars each ind in
f!'-: led Uy him. The public are hereby caution- ~
ed-againft reeeiving th» f*id notes, and » re
,vard of TWO TKOUSJMi DOLLARS is
hrrehy offered for tk- discovery and ronviflion
sf the villains who perpetrated or are concern ti
cjtin vlie said robbery, in addition to the regard ti
oflerfd,by the Governor of the Commonwealth c
in his Proclamation of this day. •>
Ijrt order of the Board,
• JONATHAN SMITH, cafliier. "
Prim ting Work,
Of Everv Kind,
IXECUTED AT THE SHORTEST
NOTICE.
Xt t'jc Office if the Gti.mi *f tbe 1
Unitfh£tat.i-s,
■46.. lb I
»
• <
, A FienJj Clasliuilia* MatlKvuitical
■ ; SCHOOL.
WILL be opened on Wp nday t>e lid. instant
. t thar commodious room formerly
oc upic«i by \'r. Leo in Alley, No. Xjf,
r.« ar.y opp«»fjte the C'ty unier the direc
tion oi MeTrs'S itli and Chandler both of libe
ral educ ti >r, and lor# experienced in their re
fpeilivc profeflion'- \s tiiey ?nteod under, ths
patronage ol a discerning public, permanently
to fti themfclves in. this undertaking, their
whole Oufly r.n I attention will be djvoted ro the
improvement »f their pupils—Thcfe willbe4on
d««ed upon the late'(f and tnoft approved plans,
j through * complete-eourfe of academical flu iUs,
. or thcfe parts only that may be pointed oat, as more
| immcdiaiely adapted to their pari icularjifw* in life
—CVrtaliri portions of their -ime will be afligned for
geogra' compofitipo, and de-
and Engtifti, in order to form
early Habit*(of writing and speaking with propri
ety—-Vifus from parents a«d literary charailcrs,
r. tending to excite a spirit of emulation, will be
gratefully received. Thehmirs of study are from
9to 1 A. M'. anct from 2t05 P. M
~ They offer to trapflatethe Englifti,French,Spanilh
and Portuguese langua ,es ; and to 4raw in their
jl P po nicdes and itile, all kinds of writing, wh<-
- r thei legal, coiratr.ercial, or epistolary.
Ie Monday in November, they also pro
pose to open an evening fchooi frjr French, book
kteping, f urvcviug and of which they
kave a practical as well 3s theoretical
As a number of French gentlemen will attend, the
student? of rhetr bngwage, by ctmtirtially convcrf
ing with them, as >Vill as their teachers, will ac
quire, along viith the a facility of
prrflion.
AVIS aux FRANCOIS :
Meff'rs Chandler et Smith ont
r Thonncar de prevenir M.M.-ks Francois, quiU fe
propofent d'etablir uue Acia'emie en Norvi- alley,
'5 , prefqu; vr-a-vis la Bourse ; dans la
quelte on erfeignera hi (angiie I.atine, Angloifs ct
- Francaife t I'-'irrthnietique, la tenue des livr.s, la
Geographic, et les Mathemntiques. i
i- O i Uit audi coutca- fcrtes de
it dites lant'ues: et At nae lecons chez les particuliers.
i- Qn'on I'addrrffe a lTiottl de Mr. Vallute au
I- coin di 4eme rue et Cherry alley.
1- Oiloher 17. cod tf
Just Imported,
'* ron cannon, double fortified, Wo»lwich proof,
with their cviag" complete—.3, 4, 6 and 9
!_ pouiuierj.
t C*rr»i!i»Wß, WcofWith prods, with, carriages, fltc.
e ' complete—»,/-t8 and 24 pounders.
I_ Cannon pov/d«rin kegs of 25lbs. each
r Round, double leaded, and fhot
e Patent fheathinj copper, bright, afTortcd 18, 20,
24, 24, j6 and 28 or p:r square foot, (hetts 4b .
, by (4 itlchcs, .'uital lc for viflels fronj jca to
icoo tans
Copper nails, boits and fj.ikes
Boarding Pikes,
Common cutlalfts
Gunners (lores •( all kinds
fin-plates No I—l-3 cross brxrs
Patent (hot in calks of scwt. each
l-ondon porter and brown fteut, in calks cf 7 dr.s,
bottled.
Earthen ware ih crates, affaTted
, For Sals ly
1 SIMON WALKF?.,
» Pine near Jth (lr*et.
Oflob«r 49. eo.tf.
Dr. Yeatmatm's
Anti-pestilential Preservative and
anti-bilious Pills,
. A-E
1 against the Fevers that prevail. Prepared
and Uld nnljvby the Subscriber, who feels it ne
reflary to embiare this opportunity cf acquair.t
irij- the Public, that he received a regulir edu
cation in the different BrajldlcmlL .
Physick, Surgery, Cj? Midwifery,
Under hit Father, and other eminent men in
the ci'.i*! of London and . Brifiol, and (in the
course of twenty-e p!jt years) has seen the mi
i,y good cffeills of this inconr>parab]e mechVme,
1 Bilious, Jaoftdice, or Hepatic cases, Dropsy,
Khenmatifnj, Lues-Venerea, Scurvy, Worm ca
ses, Malignant and r.thcr Dkfeafes, proceeding
from acrimony and obftrufiion..
THE PILLS
Are prepirert according tn trlie medical prin
ciples, and tfn»y be fafqly taken by the most de
licate In boxes of a quarter dollar,' and half
a foliar, with direiflions, and scaled with his
ere (I, cypher, and motto. ■ Nqne clfe are Ge
nuine.
N. B, v The anti-pestilential pre
servative, >ias used with great success at Lon
don, VarfeiUes, Bristol, and other Cities,
when they were rciptdllvely vifite-J with the
PLAGUE.
In bottles of a quarter dollar and half a dol
lar, with Directions, and the Corks sealed as 1
above.
Charleton Yeatmax. i
South EaftcortierofLombard and Second flreets, ]
New Market. |
oflober » raw. tn (
Canal Lottery, No. 11.
Conttderably more than Half Drawn.
Draws twice a iveek, every Monday & Tvefduy !
i TCKETS For Sale, Seven Dollars each,-at
I WILLIAM BLACKBUKN'e Lwtery '
and Brokers office. N0.64 South Second-street, '
where chesk books are kept forexamination end '
regillering in this, City of Wifhington No. 2. '
and Paterfop Lotteties and information where c
Tickets may be bad in mod of thf Lotteries ai
(horiferl by law in any of the States of the j
Union.
Stati or.Tm \VHEf.l, "
One prize of 10,000 dollars 10,000 c
Five 4>oc* 20,000 1
Iwo »,000 4,000 (
Nine i,cico 9,000 v
Nineteen sc® 9,503
Forty-f. nr 100 8,800 r
With a ftiil proportion of the one hundred t
,and of the fifty dollar prin s—the pi ice of tick
ets will loon rife;, particularly on account of th« .
live 4,000 dolla'f prizes that remain in the wheel t
until the lad day of drawing. _ I
0" Note, the business of a Proker duly at
tended to in all its branchas at the above office *
may 24 »'/ w&stf \
COLLECTOR'S -
PHILADf LSHJA, Aaguft 35, 1798 1
THE business of the Custom House will from t
tnis day be tranfa&ed at Chester, during the con- I
tinuance of the fever which n«w prevails in this j
city ; and in canfcqus nee thereof, the merchants ,
are hereby notified, that payment of all bonds for ,
duties to the United States, payable at this office,- ]
may be made either at the Cultum House in Chef- |
ter, or at the Bank of the United States.
Colleger's, Office, }
Philadelphia, Aug. 30.^
The Health Office is kept open night and 1
ay. at the City Ilall, where eVery necessary 1
onvenience is procured for removing the silk |
and burying the dead
WILLIAM ALLEN. 1
Health Office, September 39,
t'
DUNCAN,
AN ANCIENT KING OF SCOTLAND,
' murdered by M.tcn&TH, at a feaji, t»
whh h he was invited by a Lath—/is he
iuos m his <u>dy to the place appointed, with
his guards and retinue, he it thus fuppojed
J t'j be addrejfed by a Speclre.
[ DUJfCAJTs -.VA'RKIXV,
AS o'er the heath, amid his Heel-clad Thanes,
i f The royal Duncan rode in martial pride,
Where, full to view, high-topp'd witii glittering
e ,
e Macbeth's strong tow'rt o'eitmng the mountain's
fide;
ladufkv mantle v>rapp'd, a grisly form
7 Rcfh d wi:h a Rant's (ftri'dc across inc way;.
And thus, while how/d around the rifuig ffcorm,
* n hollow ihund'ripg accents noui'd cifmay.
e u Sfoo, O King ! thydeSis/d couife,
n " Furl thv tu»o chy hojfe,
" Deaih bt sets this onwird t'ark, 1
h 41 Come ;»o further, q-ickly ba» k.
r \ '* H<*ar'ft tho<j not the rivrn'- troak ?
\hoii nrft the blasted ok 3
" Fee-'ft ihou not ihe loaded fkv ?
14 Read thy danger. King, and fiv.
tc I.o! vrn caftVs tianncrs 3r*4rc
y 44 Bloody ?h r o' the rroubl M ?ir •
Lo! what fpcSl'rs on 'he roof,
c ** Frowning, bid ibcc Ibnd 'looß
" Mu r der, like an e?»'e waifs,
44 Perch'd above tbc.gioomy ga'er,
41 Just in a& to pounce his prev ;
Come not nrar;—away! away >
" Let not piigh»«d fai.b beguile ;
£ 14 Hnnor'i fc-mblance, be?ut>*s fmtle,,
' e 44 Ficrcf ambit'O. venom'd dart
f 44 Hanklcg in the feft'ring hejrt.
i_ " Treason, arm'd against ihy. life,
!t 44 Points his dagger, whets his knife,
a 44 Drugs his ftq pi tying bowl,
4< Steels his unrelentir g <oul.
s 44 N«"w 'tis time ; ere gu ; ltv night
5. 44 C!ofrs round thee, speed ihy flight ;
Li If the threshold once be croli,
M Duncan, thou'rt forever lots."
On he goes I —refiMefs fate
Hafles to fill his moral date,
Cea r e, ye -va'iiings, vain tho' true,
? Mu'dei'd King, adieu! aduuj
I .
EXTIUC T 3
FROM LATE LOXDO .V PA P E R\S
i SICKNESS AND MORTALITY
>
IV
NAVIES AND ARMIES.
FROM the year 1742 to 174.8, during
the war i ; ; FlanderS, 32,246 sick were ad
mitted into the hospitals, of which 3,563
died, or in the proportion of one in nine.
Admiral Holler's squadron were fofiekly
in the Welt Indies, that not one man in fifty
returned to Europe.
Lord Anfon in his voyage round the
world, in lefe than two years, loft by sickness
. four-fifths of his mm, and in the aftion with
the Acapulcov he had hardly men enough to
work his guns. He returned to England
with only one ftlip out of all his squadron,
and that not one third manned.
The navy and army, employed at Car
| thagena, mouldered away to nothing.
During the last German war, from July
1758, to January, 1763, the vfhole number
of men sent from England to the Continent,
iinliijmg-1 in uilspiniamitcd
of whom 14,256 wsre at different timers
sick ; and of that number 6,500 died, or
in the proportion nearly one half. Those
who were killed in the battle, or died of
tfteir wounds, are not included in the above ;
they amounted' to 1,300.
In 1757, the Fronch fleet which had sa
ved Louilbiirg, returned to Brest, and land
ed 4000 sick ; the fever which raged a
mongst thpm wasfoon communicated to the
attendants in the hospitals, and from them to
the inhabitants of the towo and its env rafts,
so that in left than fi»£ months, between ten
and twelve thousand perished.
The expedition to the Havanna was near
ry rendered abortive by sickness. Near three
fourths of the army perilhed by fever and
dysentery.
Durintr the late war, wKc:i the combined
fleets of France and Spain made a bravado
«f anckoiing in Torbay, the remitting fever
and d)Tentery raged with such viohncc en
board, thac if the grand fleet of England
bad attacked them, it is more than proba
ble the greater part would have been cap
tured.
Of the army employed for the defense of
Jamaica, durisg the American war, tliere
perished in less than four years, 3.500 men,
or one ia four ; and the number of discharg
ed men amounted to 1,750, or one in eight,
making in ?11, 5,253 men ; f j that the ge
neral loss was three-eights of the whole.
| This last is certified by Dr. Hunter, in his
obfervati<jn3 on the diseases of Jamaica.
The ft;;et3 under the command of the gal
lant lord Rodney, was very sickly in the
Weft Indie*. Dr. Blaine, who was phyfi
ciau to it, fays, that in three years and three
months, 3.,*00 died, or about two in five ;
648 were killed in battle, and sqq died of
wouuds, making in all, 4,348.
Ibe garrison of Minorca w.as obliged-to sur
render, on account of raging amonglt
the men in 3 very uncommon degree.
Five thousand men in tolerable health, to'ok
pollellion of St. Lucia, and yet at the end of
twelve months, fcareelya maw retriain;d. The
loss by killed ani! wounded wa* but trifling.
In the leward iiland s , much 6c4lncfs prevailed.
The common proportion of death* waa about J
dne in five.
Since the psacc of th* wfc of «h« Peru
vian kirfc has become more general, and the
mortality Itfs With the rar!y use of
that invaluable medicine, many regiments are
kept in a better (late ot' health than penp'e in
general in this country. —A *ork just publifned,
intitled, " a viejv of the difeal'es of the army
during the late war, and fiore that io Oreat-
Britaia, North America, and the Weft-Indie 1,"
by Thomas Dickfon Uiid, an army surgeon,
gives irrefragible proofs of what I have last men
tioned. —During a space of between three and
four years he served io the Weft Indies, as sur
geon to the third battali. n of the 60th regi
ment ; he had 1,9/I6 £kk under his care, of
which number 15 died, or one in 78 It. Ihe
principal dileafr* were fever and dysentery ;
816 were ill of the former, aitd nire died, or
one iij.ninety-one. Of the dysentery an were
sick, and oniy one man died. Tawing thtfe two
I
7 dileafei. tog _h:r, ;! ;- j ' dt. tbs a- j
mounted to tin 104 —tlvs fucceft is tinprere- I
dented, and reftef 1 uiuch credit on Mr. Reid's
abilities, whicb may He ufefu'tv einpl. yc«l in the
10 present war.
te During the late war between the Ataftri
th ans and Ruffians againfl the Turks tbemor
id tality was immense. Tbs Aultrians alone
loft 100,000 men by ficknef>.
Henry V. embarked 60,000 men from
Southampton, on August 13, (415. In less
than 40 dayv afttr the landing at Havre,
half the army had perilhed by . bloody flux
" s —not only the cgmtpon soldiers, but these
i'» of the fit!l rank; and therefore, with the
firft apd remedies, also probably
the firft—as iht; Duke of Clarence, Lord
Suffolk, Itjord Bi[li®p of Nor
' wicb, See. ,
Oliver Cromwell, in 1550, had his prmy
also reduced before Dtiobar, by liuxes from
a few days rain,.
After the battle of Dcttingen, there was
a heavy rain. In eight d?yj |oi m-n were
ill. —and l n fix weeks half the army uider the
dysentery. fell!
•ALEXANDRIA.
* Alexandtia, built by Alexander the
Great, from whence it had it 3 name, vied
almofl in magnificence with the ?."cient ei
tics of Egypt. It lla ds foi',- days jjuri'cy
from Cairo, and was formerly the chief
nart of all the Lafterfi trade. Ibe merchan
dises were unloaded st f Poring Muris, a
town on the-Weftern coalt cf the Red Sea;
from whence they wrre hrcnght upop ca-
Biels to a town of Thebais, called 1
and conveyed down the Nile to Alexandria,
whither merchants reforted'from all parts. 1
It is well known, that the Eali India 1
trade has at a<l times enriched those who car
ried it on. I hig was th.it chief fountain of '
the v?ll treasures, that Solomon amalfed, 1
and whicu enabled him to Luild the magni- 1
ficent temple of Jerpfalem. David, by his 1
conquering Idurr-a, became master of Ele- '
ath and Efiiorgrber, two towns fit Hated on '
the ealhh store cf the R s d Sea. From j 1
these two sports, Solomon sent flscts to O-'j
I phir and farlhilh, which alwayi brought
S back imrrthfe richtp.;t The traffic after
having been employed some time by the Sy
rians, wl)o'regained Idumaca, IhifteJ from
them to the Tyrians. These got all their j
merchandize conveyed bv the way of Rhi
nocolura, (a great sea-port town lying,
bet wen the confines of Egypt and Pa- 1
£ It [line) to Tyre, from wber«e they dil-!
ributcd them all over the Weflern world.
3 Hereby the Tyrians enriched themselves ex
ceedingly, under the Perfiau Empire ; by
y the favor and prote&ion of whose
y they had the full poffeflion of this trade.
But when the Ptolomies had made tliera
re selves tnaftjers of Egypt, they soon drew all
l!> this trade into theif kingdom, by building
11 Berenice and other ports on the western fide ;
'* of the Red Sea belonging to Egypt, and
fixed their chief mart at Alexandria, which 1
'» thereby rcfe to be the city of the greatest
trade its the world. There it continued for 1
r " a great many ( centuries after, and all the <
traffic which the wetlern parts of the worl,d >
y from that time had with Persia, India, Ara-1
r bia and the tafl«rn coasts of Africa, was
wholly carried on through the Rtd Sea, and
J the mouth of the Nile, till a way was dif
-5 covered, of failing to those parts, by the
r Cape of Good Hope. After this the Por- j
t r tnguefe for fom« time managed this trade ; 1
ir but now it is in a manner engrossed wholly (
: by the Englifli and Dutch. This ihort ac- 1
count of the East India trade, from Solo- ,
'* mon k s time to the present age, is extraded 1
from Dr. I'rideaux,
For the convenience of trade, there was ! ;
e built near Alexandria; in an island called 1 ]
9 Pharos J*"a tower which bore the fame name, j ,
At the top of this tower there was kept a i
1 fi'C, to light such (hips as failed by night ,
near those dangerous coasts, which were full I t
of sands and Ihelves, from whence all other I (
towers designed for the fame use have been I c
called, as Pharo di Messina, &c. The fa- I f
mous archite&JSoliratus t uilt it by order of ! c
Ptolemy Philadelphia, who expended eight t
' hundred talents (( upon it. It was! reck- J
r oned one of the feveti wonders of the world, r
j Some have commended that Prince, for per- [
mitting the archrteft to put his name in the f
' infeription which was fixed 01. the tower in- t
" Head of his own. It was very Dfart and r
plain according to the manner of the an
( cients. " Saltratus C nidius Dexipham'a Fi- 0
: dus fervatoribus pro naviganttbus," But
1 certainly Ptolemy must have very much un- c
dervalued that kind of immortality which d
1 Princes are very fond of, to fuffer p
that his name ftiould not be so much as men- p
tioned in the irtfeription of an edifice so ca- „
pable of immortalizing him. What We a ,
read in Lucian concerning this matter, de- t t
priVes Ptolemy of a modesty, which indeed vv
would be very ill placed here. Tin's ta-uhor
informs us that Softratus. to e;;grofs- the ,' t
whole glory of that noble fittdiirt to him- aj
; felf, caused the infeription of his o*n name rs
ro.be carved in the marble, which he after- C!
wards covered with lime, and thereou put 0 ,
the kind's nariie, 'The lime soon mouldered et
away, and by that means, instead of pjo- C(
curing the architect the honor with which t j
h« bad flattfred. himfelf served. only to dil"- rt
cover to future ages, his oiean fraud* and si,
ridienlo us vanity. (1
Riches failed not' to bring into vhis city, f e
as they usually do in all places, luxury at,d
lic«ntiout»ef» jfo that the Alexandrian vo- r
hiptuoufueis Ijecame a p.ovcrb «[ In this [,l
city arts and sciences v+ere alio indullrioul tc
ly cultivated ; witness t 1 at llately edifice, m
the Mufeurn, where the literati nl'ed to a ,
meet, and were maintained at the public t j
expence ; and the famous library, which t |
was aug:»iited cor.fiderably by Pjolemy t j-
Philadelphus, and which, by the • maguih- D ,
cence of the kings, his fucceffcrs, at l«fl "
contained ftrven hundred thousand vol- j;
umes.** In Cxfar's wars with the AK-*. p
andrians, part of this library (fuuate in the t j
Bruchionff) which confided ..f fqur hun- c v
dred thousand volumes, was unhappily can
fumed by fire. The city, during the reign f, ;
Of Omar the Third, Emperor of the fca- fa
racens, ftiffcred a siege of fourteen months, r,.
a- ■ t*kc?Kby (torrn by the S -j.
c- cen vmMM-iHcr tlio command of Am,.,)
| s th; son of A:;s. ' '
I ne I nrtym-.v • ,liit Scsnaeria ; it w ii
• il Lower Egypt. Al _
I * <•:••-' •% the ovrrthraw 5
1 yic, ul)o , 4 , 0 . tuis i,Si>re Christ. It «
16 '? ated on ; h - 51r''!i#-rjnean, it mi!e. welt of
that rruma of >.ns .Vile anciently called the
m and ja leagues of Cairn
f s E. k>n<?. 7,0. i f). N. lat, 31, io.
e t Or Mycs Hormcs,
is , Hf S" 1,1 vo >' a ? e ' w ta'entj of gold,
whu h. irfc"ints to three rnilli.-.ns two hundied
and forty tiiouland pouridi ftrr.'irg,
ie § 1 bis Island lies at the mouth of t>. J lar
Iv bor, Hid :i jaineff to t f ie city by marrow p j ece
•d of land fJWT.g direAlyacroi, the harbors and
r- - ividing 'i inio t\v > parts, now called the old
am. v Ticyfc f .
if tW.nd-^,
;dfm P™'««nda de
!b ** The method ef collecting Books fo r the
-e Library,..as to faze all those which were brought
ie tjjypt. by Greeks or other foreigners. Th*
Book, wers tra»fcribed into the Mufeu'm by
jjerfaus appointed (of that pprpofe ; the co»i«
were then delivered to the pr /.„-iet«rs, aild
' o,- U.tl up in the I,ibrjry.
t(• A qnaxter of a divifio;i of the City oF
i Alexandria. "
Xatc iforeign
; LONDON, September 14..
!. We ns>-.v know that our fleet lias been so
l( unfortunatv as rot to fa lln with that of th*
't French Admiral Ntllon, after a fruitlefs
cruize of twenty fcven days, between Mtffi
a na and Alexandria, without feeing or being
•. able to hear of the French fl.-et, ret urned on
,f the 19th of July to Syracuse in Sicily. H c
|, had been joined by 5 Portuguese men of
war, ai'.d tlx. Lion, o( 64 guns, making
3 h»s fleet to conlift in all, of 12 fail 0 f th#
> line and 1 o frigates—a force fufftcient to"
„ have done any thing with Buonaparte's fleet •
n-but the latter h.is be«n followed, on the
1. prtfept occasion, by his uftnl good fortune,
it Difpaiches were received on t .
;r . veiling by Government which agree in the
above account.—They were from Sir Mor
n tan Eden, at /:eni a, who states that he
ir J j l3 * l received letters from Sir William Ham.
ilton, at Naples, informing him of Sir Ho
g . r ;" io NeWon having been at on
i- 1 the i9thof July, without liishaving fell in
1- ! w 'th the French'rfleet ; that the Engliflt
j. fleet arrived at Sy.acufe on the 22d) and
: it intended putting to sea again the
y 27th of the fame month, to ex«W oncc
u -more the traft of the Toulon fleet.
.. Last Tuesday evening at night we expe
y ri'enced at this town a tremendous gale of
II win*, accompanied with very heavy rait)
g thunder, and lightening ; luckily no dam
c age was done ts> the /hipping here. Thia
d fto.m appears to have beeirfelt all through,
h the kingdom, and at sea to a great distance,
ft *4iich gives rife to some apprehension for
, r the fleets and (hipping of this country. Sev
eral vefl'els off the coast loft their malts and
d »aill, and with great difficulty were saved.
' 3 i CONSTANTINOPLE,' Aug. 10.
d There now exists not the.'east doubt of
llie French TmHon fleet having Janded in
e Egypt.. Our government has received in.
•- formation of it through several different
i channels ; but it has »ot yet received any
y circuuiftaacial details of the military opam.
tions of Buonaparte, and the opposition
»- made by the i habitants. The letters end
d reports, which continually arrive, ate tio
, vague and concradi&ory to be relied upon,
s Some announce, the taking of the cities of
a 1 Alexandria and Rofetto with the loss of
:• j much blood, and ihat the Candian merch
a ant;, who were there in great numbers
t were all put to the sword. Others assure*
1 that the French are already in foffeflion of
r Cairo (fituuted at 150 miles from'Alexan.
n 1 dria,) whilst our best informed])©Ktioiafis as
■ j firm that the army i f Buonaparte has been
f j obliged to retreat after a battle fought with
t the army of the Beys, between Cairo and
• Rofetto. The disagreement of all thele re
• ports i* a frefl) reason for placing confidence
- in the official advices, rereived by the Porte
= from Ban.ietta, dated July 18, which fay,
that tlie French are ioirenrHrd iir t 1 ? >hvi
-1 rotls of Rofetto (30 miles from Alexandria)
" in view of the army of the Beys, which was
• only ore mile and an half from their camji.
c A gfeat fermentation Hill reigns in this
- capital, and the<pol ce will be forced to re
' double its vigilances, in order to hinder the
people from committing violence upon the
" French who are here However, the govern
■ ment still continues to art witl* moderation
: and caution towards them. Every one in
■ terpretj this condurt according to his. own
1 withes or opinion. Some fee in it a secret
intelligence with the French, others believe
it t« be only an art of circumfpertion, which
agrees with the secrecy of the military ope
rations that are preparing. If a*y thiYg
canfolve this species of problem, it is the
orders issued by the Porte to all the provin
ce# of the Empire. Thrpreamlde is con.
ceived i.i termiaf the molt marked indigna
tion t live proceeding» of the French is there
reprefci ted ns the mottunjuft art of aggref.
fion, & highly contrary to the faith of tre?u
ties. I hefe ordetsjrefcribc mcafurcs 011
fenfi«e and hoAile^ft
The Englilh minifler appears to have
much ijfluenced th. fe cieterminations. and
his artivc Kal nothing that cai»
tend to. ftrengtlien the ciwrgy , f govern
mcut. rh.t: Ruffian Ambaflador does nor
appear to liiew less activity in his negocia—
tions y brtt we do not remark a eoitcert it»
tlic operations of the two tninifters, and if
they tend to the fame end, the means, they
pursue arc widely different.
Buonaparte has addieflcd a letter to the
Divan, in which he fays that if the Ottemari
Porte iluould prrmit the Ruffim fleet to pas*
tlie Dardaneihs, be (hall confidcrit as a dc
clara; ion of war.
He rrqviVt the Crard Signior to pur a.
fid* all the
armly all sttemp s v/hich that court might
nuike l and addtthat fee haa the
v *•
jrafon to c-xpeft such a line of conJinS from quefticn
bJni, as he ha* delivered hLm from his great argujng
enemies, the knights of Malta ( ed trait
Official letters fro™ Gaone, in the island to admi
t»f Candia, dated July iS, announce the Apt
appearance of a squadron before that city, gate ch
The commander, after having received in- only m;
formation r.fpefting the French fleet, de- French
termined 10 fail direst towardi Egypt. t A to attac
letter from Smyrna, of lft August fays. <l in g ar
that this fame squadron was met fceyond was thi
Rodes, failing with a fair wind towards atson,
E<r it ■ ■ Lord I
The'fidelity of the Greek Patriarch hi* videdlt
•tuft been put tu'a severe ted. Some per- his
sons had endeavored by a -thousand promi- Noble
fes and perfidious insinuations to draw him luch a
into a confpiracv ih fa.or of liberty. He weakn,
prtrtinded to agree to the designs of the from I
emissaries who made him the propositions, his det
and endeavored to procure from them a.l fevent
necessary information. No sooner had he refufec
obtained it, than he communicated it to the they B
Grand Signior. His Highness thanked the VV e
Patriarch,'placed himfelf at the head_of count;
fevsrai thousand Janifanes, marched to Pe- band
,a (suburb of Tonftantinople) and there propo
caused all the aocompl : ecs < f this confpira- throu;
cy to be strangled. Orders to execute sim- In
* iiar jullice have been sent to every place cret c
w(icre the sof this conlpiraCv exami
gre known to exiil. printt
its ai:
BERLIN, August 18. count
Our Cabinet has just received difagreea- are w
b'e intelligence, ms of a conspiracy C^.
h d ve appeared in Poland. Men, _ who _ are ties 1:
thought bell informed Upon th-'s_ fuhjeft, tetlat
fay nothing is waited to hasten this dread- A
ful exploficn but an happy event in the Me- ry cc
diterraneun. wou '
confi
PARI3°- En g'
> We have juji received the folk-wing lettir. j natui
ROlrtt, august 18. fits h
Citizen Editor, hard y had the brave j T
Giradon put an end to - j bellii
tri, Fertntina, Veh.li'and Frofrnoue, than j by a
reljellioii broke oui at Terracina. j in tli
The F eneh commandant, citizen Leduc, m ani
wa» maffacfed by the rebels. Ten chaf- over
feursof the I2;h regiment, who were with 1 p ro t
liirn, owed their fafety to the fwiftnefs of j 0 f tl
their horses. As soon <is General Macdcit- fare
aid rtceived information of this affa r, he s C an
ftnt against them, by forced marches, a de- the
tachment of French and Poles. Our troops a ffei
arrived, at break of day on the 11 th, in his!
fight of Terracim. After an bbftinate re- e pp
fiflanpr of fix hours, that city was taken the
by afFar.lt, and all the rebels, who were the
found liv arms, put to the sword, without OH
mercy. Several saved thetnfclves in small maj
-Vnffels, but a number of their vessels were J u ]i
firok, by our artillery, in attempting to ef- the
cape. By this last vidtory, we find our- B ea
felvts absolutely maflers of all the country. a li
Tlie terrible, but necessary punilhment in- re rr
flifted upon t-he revolted cities (they have por
all been facktd) will I think in future pre- at ]
vent all seditious movements. If we had Ex
not fucetded,'the infurreftion most proba- 1
bly would have become general, The En- of
glilh would not have failed to feed this new Ex
Vendee. Two of their frigates were cruif- dj
ing on the 1 I tl) ■ fin
(Signed) GIRAUD, Captain. tht
b«
September 1. th:
General Macdonald has publilhed at W e
Rome, two severe laws against the drftroy--
er6 of pubi c tranquility.—Every indi»idu- th;
al, «f having fomented fcdition by p r ,
improper discourse, or the relation of fal'.e co
and alarming new», shall be judged and pu- of
nilhed with death. ar
September 2. th
General Deafourneaux, commissioner for pc
the' government of Guadalonpe, took leave of
of the Diredlory and the Minister ot war pj
yesterday. He is going tu R 'chefort, from ti
whence the expedition for Guadaloiipe is
to fail. The other civil and military cha
racters who arc to accompany him are'alrea- g
dy arrived at that port. F
It is said that the King of Swedea has tl
refnfsd to receive La Harguc 83 Ambaffa- tl
dor of tiie.French republic. g
Augujl 12.
The late review and muster ®f the Pruf- ii
fian army make it amount to 343,000 effec- f
live men, among which are nearly 40.000 p
cavalry, and 12,000 artillerymen. They (
are to be augmented by eight battalions and
one of hussars, to be raised in cidtvaut ;
Poland. t
In the council of five hundred, the Pre
sident pronounced a speech suitable to the \
fellival of the 10th of August. i
He set out with affertiug, " That Kings ,
viTed at all timeb to surround themselves with ]
the appearance of divine proteftion, in or- |
der to delude the people." I
" But, (added the orator) thanks to the
immortal writings of philosophers. j
pie are now more enlightened, and Kings j
are known and justly valued. Voltaire, ,
Rondeau, Mably, and Reynal, will break
down more thrones than Alexaoder and
Tamerlane. _ .
«« It is also by the efforts of the United
Irilhmen, that the tyrant as the seas is to
fall; and their holy infurreftion will fccond
the last blow which the invincible hero of
Italy 'is about to strike against the Cabinet
,of St- James's-"
SHREWSBURY, Sept. 7.
At Chester Quarter Sefftons, which end
ed 011 Saturday last, John Minlhvill, of Sea
'and was convi'led of profaning the Holy
•Scriptures, and sentenced to three months
imprisonment -, at the expiration of which
time, he is to give security in the penalty of
,2001. for his good behaviour for five ytars.
LONDON, Sept 8.
This morning arrived a mail from Dub
lio, »hich brings papers of iWday,
4 . we have made such extracts a, seem most
' important.— We notice with extreme fat.s
---f act ion, the interference of the House o
Lords, in preservation of their own dignity;
t>y (lopping Council from entering " lto
quefticns of (la c ps'licy ; undtr pretext of of fli.oj
arguing in favour <;f the'rtlations Or dcceaf mg in
ed traitors w.ofe guilt th<-y arc compelled wind w
to admit. , >_ that da;
A peifon named B'ake, * msn of prcfli- tt Ms
gate chatafler and defparate fortune, is the tncre is
only man of any name who has joined the edits f
French, and his infttifr.c; has not been able have In
to attach more,than 200 rebels to the inva- Hollan
ding army. Oti Friday last, fa convinced pe&ati
was this man of »he hoptlefsnefs of hisfitu- the ev
ationj that he sent tp his Excellency the been p
Lord Lieutenant an off?r to surrender, pro- cy.
vided he might be include:!, in the exile if The
his traitors now Tn prison. The in the
Noble M rquiij convinced that mtrcy in evei- ai
such an vvodld be unpardonable equipj
weakness, refufed to Hear of any fiic'ri ofLr
from so abandoned a traitor, and declared Of t!
his deternvnatmu of afting with the utmost fore
severity with thofc rebels who have hitherlt* ftla
refufed his mtrcy, and now fek it because te£l
they have no other hope or alternative tail
We are sorry to mention, that in the
county of Wicklow, a small but desperate In poi
band of rebels ftiil continue to. reject the ® uai j
proposed amnesty, and -carry devaftatioo .
■ through that unhappy country. j n th(
In the appendix to the report of the Se. c j, a
; cret coinmittte of the House of Lords, the in thi
i examination at large of Dr. M'Ntvin is Sac
printed—One very interesting question and At th
its aufwer, which do not appear in the ac
count published by the House of Commons
• are worthy recording : " ] al]
1 How do you account for the cruel- c lpe
e ties lately exercised by the Rebels on Pro- In.
, teflants ?" 1 ' 1 '"
A. " Tf the Naticfhl Executive Dir.efto- C < oJ '|
ry could have prevented it, I .believe they
would ; but the lower order of Catholics ne
cor.fider protestant and Englishman—that is,
Englilh settler—as fynonimous, and as their Tot:
j natural enemy ; thc.fame ward Saffona figni
j fits both." ' ec<
'e i The mercy so generally shown to the re- •
i- ; bellious.m Ireland, will be bc(): appreciated , n °
in iby a comparison wiih the fa»i of , one who g n ,j
a. i in the lad "century fuffered in a» exemplars
c» ! manner, for a design of bringing the* French
f" over to Ireland, in order to massacre all the
th i proletlantsin that kingdom. The ground '
of jof the prfil'ecution against him was his Ceu- lc
n- f H re of fevtrd, subordinate Priests for their
he scandalous lewdnefs. He not only denied vVa
le- the accusation on his trial but persisted in E n;
P' asserting hi« innocence to the lad mo.ttent of I
in his life. Ths parliament, that took every Ire'
re* opportunity afexprefßngits animosity against '
en the Papists, owned themfclvet convinced of J t
;re the reality of the horid abrfminable plot, and Po
»ut Oliver Plunkett, titular Archbilhop of Ar- Gi
all mag"h, was hanged, drawn, and quartered, Nc
ere J u )yi,i6bl. His quarters we;e bnried is W
ef- the church yard of St. Giles's in the Fields C.
ur- near the bodiea of the five Jesuits, who were
ry. a little before executed at Tyburn. H<s p r
in- remains were afterwards taken up, and tranf.
a y e ported to the mooaftry of the Benedictines, O
ire- st Lanfpurg, in Germany ,
lad Extraft of a letter from Plymouth, Sept. 5.
ba- " TVe whole of the Lancashire regiment
Sn- of Militia are now on board the Haerlem,
lew Experiment and Druid ; they are a fine bo- u
uif- dv men, a„d ,oeo at
(hips are qaite ready for lea, and lying with at
their for top fails lo°fe, as a signal for failing
but the wind blows so.strong at W. S- W
that it is impossible for them to get under
at weigh. • , tc
,*oy-» By accounts from Raftack. it appears
idu- that the French plenipotentiaries labour to
I hy prevail upon the Deputies of the empire to
falfe conclude a peace, without the intervention *
P"- of the emperor. In this, however, they
are not likely to succeed, as a measure ot j
this kind would iend to the diflblution of the
r for political system, on which the constitution r
save of the Gtrroanick empire rests. At the ae* e
war parture of the above accounts, the Deputa
from tion had not returned any answer to the lalt
)e is Note of the French plenipotentiaries.
cha- A letter from Paris fays, " Dodtor Lo
ilrea. gan ii the new American Envoy arrived at
Paris, in the name of the patriotic parw ot
has the United States. It is he who obtained (
>affa- the taking off the embargo m favor ot the ,
creater part of the velfels of h.s nation. f
2. An article from Pofen, in mferted j
Pruf- in (he Moniteur, contains a very curious (
effec- speculation on the probability of Kuona- (
3.000 pane's having proceeded to assist
rhey Offloti, in his reb-llion against the farte. ]
s and "This fpeculat on is strengthened by the
tvant intelligence said, in the fame Journal, to
be contained in a letter from Semlin.
Pre- This morning arrived a mail from
0 the w hich brought, letters and papers of the 3d
inft. The only person of any consequence
Klings who has joined the French is said to be a
1 with Mr. Blake, who has offered to surrender,
in or- but this offer has been very properly peremp
torilv "rcje&ed. ,
to the On Tutfday fe'nnight dropped down, and
e peo- instantly expired, Mr- George Mat oc ,
Kings grocer in Nottingham. From h.s extreme
ltaire, corpulency, K«» remains were obliged to be
break dra «n on a dra? to Radford for interment,
r and The bredth of his coffin was 3 feet 4 1-2 in
ches an d the depth 2 feet 3 inches.
Jnited From a finale hive of .bees tne property ,
is to 0 f Mr. Fiumbre of Fullfeot Farm, Somer-j
fccond fetfhire, 8j b. weight of honey has been
ero of taken this season, and,, there is nearly the
:abinet fame quantity left for the support of the
iiyluftrious little laborers, during the winter.
SECRET NAVAL EXPEDITION.
:h end- Its objeft is probably the deftruftion of
as Sea- the grand armament now lying fully squip
: Holy ped in the Texel, and deftinec, as it is con -
months jeftured, for a descent on lieland. 1 °_ r
which this spirited attempt, four large bomb vef
ia!ty of f e !s, sloop rigged, and eight krig iire (hips,
: ytars. dropped down last week from Galleons and
the Vedway, to the Nore, tojoin a fquad
ronof frigates; the whole of which were
> Dub- expefted to fail yerterday, under the com
, Sept. mand of capt. Popham, for the I exel.
rm most The ab -ve expedition failed u«cxpccied
ic satis- from the Nore about eleven o'clock A- M
ouse of on Saturday last' , it confilled of two line
lignity; cf battle (hip», four frigates, eight bomb
Jg into vefftls and fire flr'pe and aconfideuble body
i•'' ' 1 t
of fkops, cutters, an 1 tranfpo' ts, am Mint- as t
ipjj in the wnoie to fifty tv»o fail The | CO rr.!
wiod was fa ratW.S. W. ths whole of • "
that day and cwntinued f'> all th; next and . the
Msnday evsning, wltbit} which time will
there is-reafou to that t!»c fleet reach- wha
ed Its place of deftinatiou, if it pro\*s to va e
have been as is coojc&uted, the coast of to 1
Holland. Government are in hourly ex- | the
pe&ation ot important advices rcfpe&ing are
the event qt this expedition, which has Caf
been planned with the most laudable prtva- twe
cy. _ . '^ a l
The Dutch have fourteen fail of the hue paj
in the Texel ; three «r four of these, how in i
ever are Ealt-Indiamen 4 very "indifferently
equippeJ and very badly manned. thr
MONTHLY STATEM KNT P 3
Of the distribution of the British naval on.
force, exclusive of the hired araied vef- ex'
ftls, which are chiefly employed pro
tefting the coaftitig trade of Great Bri- to
tain : . _
Line jo'sFri.Sps.Tot.
: In port and fitting il 6 *3-> 10 ®
. Guard ship«, hospital (hips
and pnfim ships, at the
feveeal ports, 28 J 4 0 35
In the Englilb and Irish
chattnels 22 I 4 l 63 117
s In the Djwns North
s Saas '3 5 35 6 '
1 At the VVeft India Ifhnds tl
and on the paflage 3 1 3' 03
At Jamaica 7 1 9 *3 3° j|
5 Amerira and Newfound
land 4 1 11 6 "
Cape of Gooci Hope,
>- Indies, «nd on the pas- 0
(age 9 4 '4 14 e
Coalt of Africa o o i ' 3 {
Coast of Hortufc-al, Gihral- t
' tar, and the Mediterra- ,
:s ». 1 1? it 60
nean .« J ,
' r ' Total in commission >4l 1 3 x ® 2 3°9
,i- ——r- -
Receiving fhTps 9 1 5 0 *'
Serviceable ind repairing
„ , for fervk# « .
L In nrtVinary r - 1
10 Bnildpiu 1 IO * 19
|
[;h Total 188 27 V>4 347 786 ]
jd The following is a genera' arrangement of
the Britilh army, Sept. i, 179 s - . T
■0" Regts. Fenci Miiitia To|. lo^v
e»r ca. In.Ca.lii.Old Sup,Bat.Ca
Wales 24 3° M »6527*»67 25
England and N.
of Britain o 5 5 9 IS 0 S 3 4
- rv Ireland & on route
n 4 t<. England io »3 "3° 't" 66 0
c Jtfwfey, Guernfty *
of &c &c. o 10 O I o o II ts
in<l Portugal i o o o o O I c
i-r- Gibraltar o 4000 0 4°
td, North America o 60000
Jin Weft Indies 3 18 ° 0 0 ° 31 °
.IJ 3 C.of Good Hope o » o o o o » "
East Indies and on
'" e . pafTage to 3 xo? o0 o o 13 o
_ 3 Prisoners ill
*"»♦ France o I o o o o > 0
je«, On pafiage from
abroad o 4000 0 1
's' Total 41 HI 30 42 8» 27 335
lent
lc ' n, Exclusive, in Great Britain, of the artillery
bo- Md enzioeers. tfc* ravajry ; ?nd ol
-rtic about 175 corps of volunteer cavalr.y, and
with about <OO corps of volunteer inf ant O'-
ilin? *No more are formed into diftinfl battalions,
vrr. + And 37 regiments of native militia.
, * t The company's troops exclusive.
r The following regiments are under oruers .or
foreign service:
•ears lott , foot,
rto 44th, 48th, and 58th for Gibraltar.
•e to 61ft and Bift for the Cape of Good Hope,
,Unn The' regi-nent raising under the commaiid
of Coiawsl Johnftone, is to serve in t«e Weft
re of » ..
if the " The' 7.tth, 76th, 845b, apd 84th foot, lately
ution rr ',ved from abroad, at prefeut hold their quar
e de- ers at Chatham.
P u,a "
Domellit.
■ Lo-
:d at BOSTON, Oftoher 14.
f of A schooner, fnppafttd to be the Little
a,ned Cherub, Captain Atkinß, was on Monday
: the last fee., loing into Duxbury, in p days
, f r „ m Nautz. The Captain who saw th<
erted fchoon*, could not get fufficently near tc
urious obtain papers or news , but as Duxbury u
uona " only "8 mil's from Boftpn, and the mail
ffwan from tbence due on Friday evening j wt
>orte- may exped some late information.
f the ; r
s! » t0 Latest from France.
~. Captain Delano arrived here last a
I! ,; ten o'clock fron Duxbury. He mform
3 u« that Captain Atknu acquainted him
u , en " that he failed in company with the brtj
j 3 Cvrus, Captain Tyler, from Nantz; whicl
6 place thev left the 16th September. Th
remp " Cyrws has DISPATCHES ON BOAR I
, FOR GOVERNMENT;— and Orders
"• T that (he should not be stopped or deta.net]
' bv the French forts or vessels of war:-
arC T That the conduct of the French Goverr
l ° b , e men. towards United States had totall
rme " changed j and an apparent desire to ope
U2,n " an amicable negociation immediately, w:
visible among them:—That they had n
° pe 7 ccived no knowledge of BuonapaHe— thj
™u eT ' I Captain Debno had received a letter froi
' bee " Mr. Doubre, Conftil at Nanti, ... wh.c
'y he declares that the French Governmet
°- were wilhne to meet any meafurei for s
* lBUr - accommodation, to the fati.faa.9n ot tl
sON United States; and that they deprecate
iha of war. Duplicates of the Cyrus 1 d.fpatch
«j Ul p. hj^ r^["of se t^e prevents us going furthi
For into detail of this linking eft aof the ene
nb vef- gy ftabilil y of the Amer,can Go¥ "
e ships, 'fi iere was a temporary embargo at Natn
'squad °«>«S to th? fittln S out °l some h Vt f t
■h were war. Joseph Woodward, Elq. who has t
e ™ care of the difpatche., is a paffcng.r on boa
t ] the Cyrus.
pe'aed- The following may be relied upon, as coi
A. M- ing from an American, and a true triei
wo line to our Government.
. bomb " Bourdcaux, Augujl 27' '
le body «« I think every thing vvil[ still bf lctWt
as this Government feemi difpoTed |o ac- I L -!»
commodate matter*. I
" We have news here From A*neriea. to -
the i jth of July, anJ I think nothing more p
will take pbee ,until news arrives here from
what Mr. Gerry carried out. Ail 'he pri AEL.
va errs in the Weft Indies, are abfoluttlV
to be called in, as no doubt you will fee.by j ffafoj
| the arrette of the Eiireftory—and orders y~ r
are gne out for that purpose. Ihe high j.
Caflation Court at Paris, have lately cleared j
two or three Americans, which I think will __
Hop their taking of those who have proper l ° £
papers. Those vefiels hjid been condemned j_
in two courts before
'• There h3»e bffen condrnuiil two or
three here which I think will "be cleared at
Paris. [A wonderful change!] 1 here is Ciir
one under trial, whose papers are in order, ®t.
except a certificate that the sugar is not
English produce. Brokers are appointed g CT
to examine it, and if tlicy report favoura
bly, I think she will be cleared " Bcc
_ Afl
; P leafing Intelligence.
A letter rccti-TK'l by a merchant of tb't ttmon t p r
from Mr. Cabot, gives important informa- ! Fn
bon to those who haveJimihr conctrns.. 1 <?«
, ' London, J'ily2"j. 1 Gi
" Sif * I M
7 " I have the fatisfatlion to mform yog, j j"
that this day the Court of Appeal? reveried
3 the sentence of condemnsioh in the cafe of ! y
0 the fchr. Peacock and cargo. i j f
.-a. CABOT." j ('
CJ» The Peacock, Blaney, matter, was K
of the fifft lift of American veflcls condemn- C
1 ed at Monifoat, upon Lord Mansfield's rea- ,
3 son, cf enjoying a trade not known to neu
trals before the French Revolution, and 1
■ )0 therefore to be cosfidered as adopt«4French |
_ vefTels.
;5 A"
- ARREST
Of the Chronicle Printer. R°
S Yesterday Thomas A\Jams« Editor of the -'"
8j Independent C roniclej a\»s arretted by col.
*9 Bradford, Marfnal of this Diftria, and
77 brought before the Circuit court, nowfittjog
_ in this town, to aofwer to an indiftment
found against him by the Grand Jury, for
sundry libellous and seditious publications, 14
nv in his paper, tending to defame the Gov-
C-'. I ernment of the United Slates.
*S The defend?.nt pleaded oot gruilty, and
I requested a poftpouement of the trial, to the
4 J next term, which not being' afTented to by A !
6 I the Attorney for the United ijtates the court >
afiigned this forenoon to hear a motion which |
1S j the defendant's counsel proposes to urge for f°
c a continuance : In the mean time he is un
-0 der recogniaance for his appearance from
° I day to day—himfelf for the sum of 2 ,OQO
° I dollars, with two sureties for iooo dollars V
I each. His sureties are eapt. Nathaniel Fel- b
c I lowes, and Mr. William Thompson.
John Davis, Esq. is the Attorney of the
0 United States. Thomas Edwards, Esq. »]
Counsel for Mr. Adams, made the motion _ t
' I for pollponement.
. ( t0 I We have no right to comment on this e
- I vent.
Ilery I -
A ofl TRENTON, O&obcrig. "
d ° f On Tuesday last, the house of David c {
lons- I Stokes, near Rancocus Ceek, in the county {
Jof Buriington, by accident took fire,and was
I entirely consumed, with every thing of va-
rs for j j ue therein. t ]
On Saturday last, about four o'clock in j
I the morning, dwelling house, entirely new, ,
lope, belonging to Benjamin Proffer, fitua'e on
Antrim's Hill, near Burlington,was burnt to
•naud J the g.ound, generally supposed to have been
set on fire by design.
I Also on the fame morning, and about
' I the fame hour, a valuable tan house, belong- (
tiUir ing to Noah Haines, in the borough of .
Bristol, Peiinfyl?ani«, was consumed by
I fire with all the implements of the bufi-
I ness, and a large quantity of leather, and
j other proptrty, ftlppsfed to the amount of
lat lead one thousand dollars. A widow
I woman, by the name of Suattcrgood, hv
-'Ule ing in Biiltol, has bren taken into cullody
mday I U p ßn strong ctrcu mftanccs of suspicion of
da Y s I having n<alicioufly perpetrated the ta£l,
' the I And on the fame morning, about the fame
ar to I hnur, a dwelling house near Van Ka n's place,
jry is on Nethamany, about three miles belew Bnliol,
mail was also entirely cl fumed.
1 The light of thele three last fires, was conlpi
' J cuoufly seen at thei'ame time, It m tie city of
I Burlington.
.
~ A young woman from England,
f * 3 would wifli to engage with a lady in the eapa iry
forms I of or in the situation pi a lioufe teep
him, ex t0 a genteel family,or to a finglc gertleaian.—
: brig I \ good rccppiroenctation cm be piocurcJ fr<»'.i
which fome»>f «h« moft-relpeiUMe families in this city.
I Tor particular enquire at the pr,»ting olbce ot
a n i-\ thi* Gazeti#.
A , RD oaofcer jr. «•!'
Irders, , , , . . ..
ained, United States 7
a'r P.nnf/lvin-a DUfria. J '
„,mrn IN uurfuauce of a writ to me direfled froia the
™' J ho norable Richard Meters, efqr. of the
tota "y diftnot court ..f thf Un
i open Penfafyiv tnia dl.ftridl, will he euppfed to public file,
r, was it the bjrough ot Cheftcr, >n tfas county of Ue J
ad re- ware, on Monday the jth day ot November next,
that at 12 o'clock at r.oon,
- from I large new cahj* . of fail cloth
1• l i do. worn do. . . 1 (Jjip ft ixsl}
l faiall do. do. 7 ir on bound water caflcs
nment I cabjt about t inches A dem; raft OF rr achine
for an I o ]j s do. to prof* goods when
of the i eoiL of cordage loading
icate a » do. oC do. n-w • iroa crane»
1 'ounding lines of onv r new flag
hundred and fourteen, I do. rack
and fifty fathoms [pennant
urther , ma ; n fail 4 copper kettles and hds
leener- I foie-tof-fail l tes kettles
'nveru I main tcp fail 1 cnffeekettle
* x jib K fmill copper pot & lid
i uiain-top stay fail 4 cewpaffes
N a,nz > i ft»ddi»g-fail» Afm.t Unchor
(Tels of , under Oudding faili 3 of rum andabout
has the 4 fun fail I, cafi. of lugar.
B board The article aforefaiA heinj n' W■ « board the
bri e lying at Ch'-I>«r, in the port of
Philadelphia and diftrifi. «f Fconfylvania— he
13 com- lame lllvine \ccfc saved from - the , th "
; friend Danifli ship OenGodchenfigh: at fca, and - libelled
against foi TA ,Jj j'icHOLS, f/aiCxal,
V^..i MarWi siScfjOcl- -$•
—<.■ •
im lym ■«" m i tgg
TChz
P HI L A DEL P H I J ,
VKLiNESBAY SVENINO, OCTOBER jW
■
List-os all tit Burials in the ftvfrjl Cr4i
Yards of the City and Liberties of P&;*M i
delphia, cs tahn,.fro„i lit left
Clergymen, Salons, &e.
rColle&ed for the Oazfttb of the UtitTtO
StAT Es, by ROB?R f 1> JXTON.']
t
Names of the Burial Grounds.
Chrilt Church - ... » a-
St. Peter's - , . . c <»
St, Pauls - • - » o ®
Firjt Presbyterian . - i ®
Second Prelbyterian - « . c a
Third Frelbytenjn ... o <»
Scaiis Preffcyterhn ... o C»
Aflociate Church ... oi <a
St. Vary's Church - » . cl o
Trinity Church • - - c i o
; Friends" 4 a
Free Quikers' - ' ■ » » o a
- - - . i o
' German Lutheran ... i o
| Genian Reformed Presbyterian 3>»
Moravians* • » co
j Ba;)tifts" ... • c O
c; Mrtliodifts' - - - i<►
Univerfilifts* - ... o o
] Jews' . . . „ 0 a
| Ciiv Hospital t • • 7 a
s Kenfmgtou .... c o
Coitet's i o o
|j • T Aal for tbr hit 14 hours rfi'ca
<j ; t"Y nospn"A 1. repu M"'
h | From 39th tu 31ft Odlober.
ADMITTED.
Andrew Morrifon Samuel Coop':''
, DIED.
Robert MDevitt Dorothy Maaakippe*
ie Francis Dayloft,
,1 Interred from City Hospital 3
|( j Ci'y and I(tbciticß 4
' g 1
nt I
or Remaining in the Hospital 39, of whorn
, 14 are on the recovery. 1
■ PHILIP S. PHYSICK.
Christopher Darrah, Steward.
nd By order of the Board of Managers
he WILLIAM JONES, Preji -int.
by Attest, Timothy Paxsqn, Clerk.
jrt _ \
[ch TEN newcafes reported by 16 pnyficiatv#
for for the last 34 hours,
jn-
Qm On the %3d inft. the legislature of New.
IQO Jersey met at the State-lioufe in Trenton.
| ars William Coxe, jun'r. Efquite was cfcofea
•"el- Sp«ket of the House of R prefentativee,
?nd Malkell Ewing, Efq- Clerk George
the Anderfon, Esq. waschofrn Vice Preftdentj
Pfq. and John Beaity> Esq. Secretary of the
;ion Council,
s{ . General PINCKN'EY, one of the En<
voysof the United States to the French re
public, arrived on Monday last at Trenton,
where he wai very refpe&fully received by
.1 captain Claypoolc's company nf Light In«
aVI fantry, and captain Yard's company of Ar«
lnly tillery, who fired a Federal salute on the
wa! occasion. The General was met- si* mile*
Va " from "1 renton by a r.umber of Civil anel
■ . Military officers, with many other refpefta-'
1:1 bit citisens, on horseback aad in carriages,
*" W ' who attended him into the city, where ha
: on received an hearty welcome from the inhab-*
it to . '
been ltwts -
On Thurfdav last the house of Charley
out Cojce, Esquire, of Kingwood, Huotingtoni
on S" county (New-Jersey) accidentally caught
1 0 fire, and was entirely confumcd. Part of
' the furniture was destroyed, but we are hap*
' py to hear that no lives were loft. Mr.
an< l Coxe was hurt by the falling of a piece of
n °* timber ip endeavoring to get fotnething from
the house during the fire.
hv. . w
:lod y New-CjJlk, Odcber 39.
Jn of ARRIVED, Pays,
Ship Melpomsne, MajeHrie, Mole, a&
fame Hrig Orati'ude, Heynolds, St, Btrtholomew I 0»
ilace, Schr. A]a> ia« Pryor, (with tb* m»ii j
rittol, Charleston >6t
Louify, JJaltimor*
iiifpi Captain Prior ins .rfr t !, that the Ihip'Experi
ty of ment, Jeremy, of Philadelphia, from Jamaica, '
out 36 days, bound to New York,- put into
wmmt Charlifton, for fuppiijs, the day before he I'aili
, ed. Captain Jeremy iofrirpntd bitn, that the
fchoorvtr Ori'>n, of and for Philadelphia, from
pa i'y AUx-Cayes wat taken by the British and sent ibW
keep 1 to Jamaica J the UriQU was *,fhg of truce, but
lan. — returninj with a cargo was the fetfon of his
fr . u " l capture. On the Jjth, to the of
? city : Chincoteagi? captain Prior spoke th<? Delaware
ice ol fl.iop of war, all well, and wai k'ndty ftipplird
with provifiong by captain Decatur,
> ° st Captain Reynolds left at St, Bartholomew
tfffe fdhonner ExperimeiV. Mixwell, of «nd for
Philadelphia, to Vail nejft day, and no other A,
the merieans. The Experiment lad been capiure<t
if the ty l^e French and condemned Jt St. EiiHatia,
, r t he bought It) by the captain- „
lie file, Sailed on Saturday, brig Dispatch, IvH?, so»
D C 'J. Hamburg. l
r next,
IJOSTl J OST OFFICE,
» th Philadelphia, t<)tb QSoUr, 1798,
■r calks LETTE SS for the Britilb Paclt
achine e t (for Falmouth) will be received
VThen at this office until Tuesday the 7tb
November, at 6 o'clock, P,' M,
N, B.r—Tbs inland (f
New-Tork mutt be paid at this office.
'' Js LI. PERSONS having any legal
cra : nft the eft»t« of IVilliam PiriHt, dec« fjd.
,t & lid lite of (he city of Philadelphia, Tjvern k« PM
reauefied to furnlfh th.if properly W
themicated ard all ptrfcns indebted to ftt'i HIM
dabout are r- qacft-d to rnak= payment t9 the Hi
Philadelphia. HQLI |jjQ.- >tt roßTH.
,rd rte . Oftobcr lift, «79«-
port ot _— * i' 9 • v ' r
The To Lett.,
\°l ~ hr THE house, No. 78, NpKh
-e.nd Or-et, >vith or without a .lore »>4 Ball'-.
rfcal ihe house U large and convenient i "t
' Tchn Litle, No. 4 P, Nortlyfatij
j Oflaber 3lfi'iIOI'QSALS,
BY THE
In furance Company qf North America
I'cr In citA>:ci Fire, on
HfMj|<r?. \#ace Kcufcs. and other BuiMings fan<
o*; Gooci c c ir such Building*) distant fron
Philadelphia, in the United States.
* Commas lu-fnrancet, on hazards of the sirs
elafs will be undertaken at a premium of ahou
halt per crnf. per aftmim. For extra Nnzardou
rifqurtt a larger premium will required, whirl
will vary according tt) circumftarcea, fcldore ex
teed?r?£ one per rent, per annum ; but in farric in
dances, where the property insured w not only it
i?Mf ei'ra hazardous, but rendered still moref<
hy the vicinity of extra hazardous buildings ar.<
occupations, the premium demanded will be raifec
according to circiimftance*.
. Ho tile? and Ware-Houses, the walls and purti
tions of which are wholly of florae or Vriclt, wel
roaftrudtef!, so as to b* guarded as well as may b<
again <1 fires from wrtlun, and free from extra ha
zardous buildings and occcupations in their neigh
borhood, will be deemed hazardous of the &r(l
claf*, and may be insured to their full value.
hazardous kind, in calks, hale, or package*, de
pofifcd in such buildings? to an amount rot ex
ceeding 4000 dollars ; hut if more than thisfam
m i f quired to be insured in one tenement, an addi
tional premium will be required, in proportion to
ciroimftanccs.
If. Insurance* will also be made on buildings and
gooawxtra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to t!>p risque. But if is aot easy to arrange *':fe
under particular heads or clafTes, so as to describe
each with the nectffary accufacy.* Each caf~ must
t'.crcfore be decided upon according to the circnro
mances a t<?udingit • and these circumstances wili,
in general, apprjar frcTm the description accompa-
Uyinfr tho application.
HttiMinjtr. partly eonftru£ed of brick cr stone,
arc pfef'rablc to those wholly wooden. And in
both rafts, the ftiie of building, how thsy arc oc
c;:; ed, how they arc situated, the neighboring
uniioiufts, and how occupied, are considerations to
be takeh into virw. And with refre jfc t« goods,
their tendency, whether from their nature, or
from the manner in which they are exposed, ether
to commence or to increase an accidental fire, ar.d
their liability iu filch fta'e to receive damage by
wet, or by sudden Qridhafty removal, or to be fto
*len in time of eonfofion and hurry, are all cir
cuniflances of weight ; and the premiums mufl be
proportioned accordingly.
111. The following conditiont are to be under
stood by t!ie parties.
Til. The Insurance is not binding till the ftipu
i'.re i prcruiirw be uaid ; but it (hall be dtemsd ef
iechini from the time of such payment and accep
tance thereof, whether the policy be immediately
or not.
? !. Jnfurances rany be renewed at the expira
tion of the term of the policy, without further ex
p -l-fU than the payment of ths premium of the re
newed tcrm-the circumstances continuing the fame
s< ' hey were nnderflood by the Infurcrs at the time
the former insurance wis made ; but the-payment
of the premium in efl'ential tfi such renewal ; and
if the party insured fuffcrs any time to elapse after
the expiration of the former insurance, before he
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
during such time ; nor can the insurance be renew
ed on the former policy but !>y computing the
a .rccfliciit of the renewal from the expiration
<4 the fonhar insurance. The fubjetS of i*fur -
i!i ly neVcrihejifa be open to treity for a new
Influence.
3d, If ar y other inf.irance be madeoll the f»me
pro; ertyv; itnHiA i e -made known at the trme of
application, o-.h.rv. i's the policy ma.ie on fucli ap
pl ; atioa will be Void.
4'J Go i ■> JitU in trurt, of on cboficnmtKt,
r~..y he ijifurf d ;is such ii» * fep?ratp policy; but
the\ arc nor tube considered :s irifute<Jethcrwife.
'lu Tills company vvii) not be liable or accoun
tativ.lor any loft or ilani'tge occafton. d by any for
ijjjn )av?fion, or by *:l y military or usurped force
<t:; i y rodfonof any civil commotion ; or occaGon,
t J by «inpow(Kr, aquafortis or other thing of th-
M>- kind kept in the building, or amongtl the pro
perty ißfured.
6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secn
-ritU'., Title JV ds. Money, Gut and other pro
miiT ry Nate-, are not included in any insurance ;
1.. 1 a l piiKtiiig', medal-, jewels, antique
fuH' )itie«, or mirrors exceeding the val*e of twen
ty-five dollars each, to be colifideri d as insured une
less particularly mentioned asd by fpecialagree
mcrt.
;.h. Jfo insurance will be made forafiorter
tluti one year, nor for a longer term than fe
•.«:» years. Fcrfons choofin* to infare for seven
js «rs dull b (allowed one year's premium by way
discount: One third of a years premium (Halt
T»e abot d in like manner on an infurußce for
years.
• ":lj LoflcsiuHaincdby firesoproperty inCured,
f'u'.lUe paidiu thirty djys after due proof and li
tjuirlrfion thereof, without deduAion.
A defciiption of the property to be infnrod
J e cxp iled with each application, to be made by
nrulli r and llgned by him, as well as
bj; ih? owner of the building 01 applicant for in
"furi- Je, and auefted before a Notary or principal
who will certify his knowledge of the
plirti s .uid tlieir credibility.
Vyith rctpetS to Houses and other Buildings.
1 IV. 'he site and position ; describing the
freer' 'or loadon or near which the building
lfar.us; its contiguity to water, and other cir
climttapces relative to thr extinguilhmcnt of fire
iri'cil'e of acddent,- 4 and particularly whether
any and what fire companies are eltablilhed, and
engines provided, in the place or neighbourhood.
id. The materials of which it id built, whe
ther of brtyk, (lone or wood, and what part of
each, as well is to the outside walls as inside or
partition wills, and their refpeilive height and
thickneli) the ftvle of the roof and of what
materials; how fecurcd by battlements or par
ty walls ; what kind of access to the top of the
house a>:d tp the chitnr.ie* ; whether any and
what eledlrie rods ; the number and kind of
fire places ; and the kind of depefit for ashes.
3d. The dirnenfn us of the building and how
divided, and ihc (fyle in which it is finithed so
as to enable indifferent persons to judge in what
manner it is to J)e repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury; the age and condition of the building,
atid how occupied. \vheiler merely as a dwel
lihj; house, or for any other, and for what p«r
pof; , also aneftiroate o/the value df the house
or building independent of the ground.
j} th .Tie situation with refpcdl to other build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at lealt cue hundred feet
each way : what kind of building# are within
that diflance, how built, ps what materials, and
bow occupied or improved, whether as dwel
lings for private families or otherwise : whe
ther any and what trade or manufaiStory is car
ried on, and particularly whether there be any
extrahazardous articles used, or ufitally depo
sited in the houie, or within the diftancc afore
fairf, and of what kind.
itefpef»ing jyeds in Houses, Warrhoufes, &c.
A i'eueiai description of the building in
which tliev are kept will be expeited, similar in
all refpc£U,as totbedacgerfrom (ire, with that
required for'lnfurance on the buildings tliem
lelvcs.
2. A description of the kiiu-s and nature of
the"goods, whether iu ca(k« or other packages,
or i.peptd ; and whether difplavcd ia whole
pieces or in the ul'ual fcrja for retailing. And
_7 jkind, 1 jeneral
JeiiiiTU'c r -I'tie of ear'./kind prrpofed to
| i>e in'n-ert ; ♦.•■ it in the lad particular minute
» nefa n! (iefcription is not <-xpe>3ed.
. i v Aftis'rs :.f the following kinds are deem
j ed e-;tra ha?srdnus, though in varnus
J m wl'ji-ver buiHinp ih;y may ht plated,' viz.
ln4 pitch, tar, turpemirr, rol-n, -jrax, tallow, oil,
rm milarimablefpiri'?, fidphur, hemp,flax, cotton,
dry gftoda of an inflammable kind opened.—
irfl GVds, china ware or porcelain, especially un
y,,t packed; Looking glafies, jewetery : and all o
otis ' t^"?r art ' L 'les more than commonly infhmmaMe,
ich " I " rore than commonly liable to injury by fud
ex. i den remcwij or by moi.lures, or particularly
in- . obroxiom tntheft on an alarm of fire,
in r.e'ters post paid, dirc<S«d to the Secretary of
;fo the Roard of DiredVors, will be duly attended
snd to. An order for Insurance accompanied by the
fed mtytn.i of paying the premium, will be imme
diately executed on the premium beir t g paid. If
rti- the application contain an trinwry only, it will
•ell be.answered.
' ,e Br order of the Bokrd,
ha- EBENEZER HAZARD, Sec'ry.
i"- OJJiee of ifje Insurance Compahy e/Nortli \
u America; Pb'tlad. Fek. I, 1798. >
Teb. 14. iamtf
tra
iVIHIs, Portage, &c.
jni TO BE LEASED FOR A TERM OF TEARS.
dH
ta O be leafed, for a term not less than three,
1 Eor more than seven ycaTs, a V ALUABLE
Hd PROPERTY at the Seneca-Falls, in the county of ]
ied Onondago, Ind date of Ne'w-Ycrk, on the Banks
fe of the Vnefa-river, two raiies weft of the Cayuga
ibe ferry, and leve'n miles cast o! Otr.cva.
ufl This cftahliu.mei.t confifls of an excellent grill
m- miil, saw mill, dwelling.house, barn, and a port c
iii, "for carrying place, with letween thirty and y
lofty acres of laml, under good improvement,and r
as nine!-, more in tjic vicinity, as may be required c
ie, for future improvement. I
in Th' j: > mill is a handsome, new and well.fin v
>c- building, of by 30 feev 3 fiorics high d
ng op lun.iilied with a run of excellent Eurr flones
to an.ianotlitr » Efopus' flones, of the hell quality
Is, —atid t'n.: mo!l approve.! Wilts, &c calculsted to
or mak» al) the different qualities of flour for expor- !
-r tation or for homeconlumption : It is acccflible by '
nd water from every part of the Cayuga-lake;'aii< Se- r
by neca-river. as well as from the Seneca lake—an*'.
0 . from its situation, copmiands a vervexrenfive and
r . encreaCng ciftom : l"hi* dream o* which it flands,
be hciug the outlet of the Seneca-lake, the mill cau
nev?r ftc in want of water ; and as it hus been kept
r _ workingduring the feverelt season of the la!i win
ter, it is not liable to be impeded by f roll :
i- The f»w mill is also new, litaatej on the fame ''
f. Cream, now furnifhed with an ample ftoclc of
p- logs, of which a supply may at all times be pro
iy cured by or water, of the best quality : a
The dwelling house is well calculated for theufe
a- of the miller, is new, and fuffieicutly lai ge : The t<
t _ barn is about 40 feet square, and entirely new : i
t . Ihe portage is j-4ths of a.mil« in length, along P
ie the Seneca-falU—over *.hifch were passed in the ai
ie 10l year, nearly two hundred boats with their fl
contents ; this objefl is already prodniftive of a 1
id handsome income, which muil be incr&afing and "
if permanent :
ie Among the many advantages of thit situation,
d m ufl be numbered the fertility of the surrounding 7
r- country—beingthe b«fl tnipfovcd part of the count -1
, e ty of Onondaga—the concentration of inter- ni
n eoerf? by land ani water, the Geneffei ftatcrcad O
paSing through it, as well as all water carriage to tv
v Gd'ev-v, and the counties of Onur.o and Str-u en ; d
whjeh rcsJersit asnoH eligible stand for a Store or 01
e Tavern—The thwr and lake* abound in fifli and ui
,f f»wi, atid tka country with deer end othpr gnme. er
Befules the mills already eree'leJ at this piac;, it as
is calculated for arv additional water works that- ti
U 'nay he fund iKcrffary—Fulling mill, hatk mill ,tk
t tannery, forges, &c. may be ereiled at a fmalj ex- vc
penc iron ere may be brought in boats Jrotn the ce
- Cayuga Uke ; and it i. thiiiLjlu ±a io_the hi
. J neigiihor'iuod ' "at
. ' The iloek 011 band w : ll he fold to ths ltffee, and 1°
t j the cettl.., uttn£il«, friiith's forge, ike.' may befold vc
. | or let tile premises. th
If apurrtiift (houKl offer for the whob or an 'pr
undivided part of the premises it will be fold. th
F»r terms <jf fsle or lease, apply to mr. Wil
- »» T.MO« Mtsdikji. at t!*e Siiucea falls, or to the
; fubfcriticr, at ichenedladv.
STEPHEN N. BAYARD.
i ,: " e t ? , tawim j
!■ Federal Mills, ™
\ ©JOINING Georgetown, and the City of j)°
r J- Walhington, will be offered at Public Sale,
• on the loth day of SfptamK-r next, at the Union
1 Tavern, if not previously fold at Private sale. °"
' Thole millsin point of situation for business and
I na'ural advantages are generally admitted to be
r equal to any in America. The Merchant Mill is
a large brick house, eighty feet by fifty, almoll T
> new, in which ate ereAcd four pair of Burr mill-
■ flones with elevators, hopperboys and bolting
cloths, completely finilhed and confirudcd in such ' nt
1 a manner that the whole of the mills may manu
' failure flour at the fame time. The country mill
> which is ereflea near the other, is entirely new,
■ a strong Hone building, containing one pair of 15!
' flones, and built in such a manner that the second P u
: pair may be put up with littleexpence. Thismdl
is conveniently finHhcd, and calculated to car.-y on * J
extensively, country work, of which it gets a con- tra
: ftant supply. 1 here is belongir.g to the said mills val
; »7i acres of land, the whole of w*hich will be bcl
fold with the mills.
; One third of the purchase money will be require
- ed in sixty days Jay of sale, and fir the cn<
| balance a liberal credit will be given. Further r0
. particulars will be made known on the day ef sale. * ra
JOSEPH E. UOWLES, is 1
F Surviving partner of
JOSEPH E. ROWLES Co. in (
I Georgetown, july 13. »3— 3 awts 1"
LANDING, -
: At Seuth Street wharf, the cargo of the (hip Co«-
\ ncAicut, from Batavia— r-*
1 About 300 tons of Java Coffee, *
r of thegiowthof 1794 and 1795
60 tons of Java Sugar, |, o r '
c In cunnidcrs—lor sale by l#f
f PETER BLIGH7, on
, WHO ALSO OFFERS FOI lALI, ra |
IJ® hhds. choice Jamaica Sugars Ij",
Jamaica rum in hhds
. Brandy ift and 4th proof in pipes, hhds.
and quarter cjflts
Vladcira in pipes
. Old Batavia Arrack
TU'V 1 f. m '
t 2 N(
J John Haines & Wm. Jones, Fr
. I)EG leave toinform their'friends and the public,
. XJ that they have commenced aCo pattnerihip
in the SADDLING BUSINESS, which will in
future be tarried on under the firm of
HAINES & JONES, ||' i;
■ n Market flreet, No. 131, one door above the
corner of Fourth, —where they presume (at lraft j 1
to h»pe) that their attention to, and knowledge in "
1 bufinefj, their determination toferve on the b«ft
l terms, and their known attachment as Native A- _
t nscncansto the Gorcrnrient and Ctnflitution of
. tbeir Country, will entitle them to the encourage
ment of a generous public. Although they can
r not loafl of having acquired their experience in
ar.y part of Europe, yet they take the liberty of • f
' pledging thenifclves, that their Kianufa&urc lhal
, be inferior to none in this city.
jvnc 2i. tethstf 1 1
*>' DU IT ON CARRIAGES,
No Ice is hereby given,
J- i agrcably to "tj a& of Congress of the
s, United States of America, pa Jed at Pkila- ,
Zt riclphia the 28 th ;Uy o r May, 1796, hying du- ?
] , ties ior the conveyance of pcrfans, and |
i, repealing the ferraer aflt for that purpose—That (
_ th'-rc {hall l~e levied, co.llc£ed and paid, upon all ,
q . car:: ges for the conveyance of perfens, which
{hall be kept by or for any perfoo, for hi« or her |
own. us.', or to Ist out to hire, or for the convey- ,
ing at pafleugers, the fsveral daties and rates f»l- ,
lowing, viz. dolls*
/ For and upon every coach 15 '
, upon every chariot '
upon every po(l chariot 12
upon every post ch life 13 '
uj-oncveryph«ton, with orwithouttop 9 '
Mpor. every coachee 9 1
' r upn-i other carriages, having pannel 1
II work above, with blinds, glafles, > 9 1
or curtains y
u-pon four-wheel carriages, having") <
frame polls and tops, with fieel V 6 !
firings j i
u; . n four-wheel top carriages, with 7 ]
wooden or iron springs on jacks j 3 1
Upoit curricles with tops 3
upon chaitcs with tops - .
upon chairs with tops j {
upon fulkie'j with !>-p» ~ j (
upon other two wh el top carriages 3 ;
•> tpon two wheel carriages whh (ieel")
E or iron springs j 3
>f For and upon all other two wheel carriages 2 '
' upon every four wheeled carriage,") '
having framed ' ports and cop», C % 1
and rcfling upon woodfti spars J 1
I The Collector of the revenue ol the firft diviiioti
of the firft fu r vey ps Lhe dillria of Pennlylvania, 1
i- will attend daily until the 30th day of September
d next, lor the purpose of receiving the dutie-s on j *
3 carriage.-!, it Germantown, cn the Main flreet, a[ a
liule above the of tht King of Prussia, of d
which all persons polfefled of such carriages are v
deCred to take notice. f.
' Notice is also given, °
) To all retail dealers in .wines and foreign diflilleci
spirituous liquors, that licenses will be granted to
them 3 one licence for carrying on the bulinefs ol P
retailing oi \vin:s in a less quantity, or in lei's e
uautities, than 30 gallons—and one licence for Tl
, airying 011 the bufmcjs of retailing ipiritiious li*
S u Q rs hi less quantities than twenty gallons, at the 0
* fame time and at the Tame place, by ti
JAMES 4SZI, o
of tie ill divffiou of the ill
Survey of thediftri& of Pcnnlylvsraui. fl
Ofiice of Infpcdion at Germantown, ") tJ
22d August, 1798. J tl
.sjp Every denomination of Stamps to be had fc
at laid office.
0' The Stamp Press is removed tl
to the Olliie d* Infpcvtjon in Germantown, on the ai
•wlaih Arect, Plittle af-ove the of the King o!
Pruffia,—»where attendance will be given for the () '
of thole who wifnany inftrnmants tl
damped, on Tuesdays, Thursdays aod Saturdcvs. re
ugu-ta -12 ' a
For Sale at Public Audtion, '!
ON THE PREMISES,
FOUR LOTS on Harper and Keith's wharf, in
Alexandria, on ths a6th day of O&ober as
next, if not fold at private sale before that time, t j (
One of tfeefe lots is nt-ar the end of the wharf,
twenty feet beyond which the water is two fathsms p
deep, about forty feet cut three fathoms, fifty feet /
out the waiter is four fathoms, and grows deeper
until it comas to the channel, which i*> abouc fev
enry feet from the end of the wharf. There is , in
as much dirt to the bank as Will level l;£
tie wharf, which ar.ay want raiGng about a foot
tht end. There :s in this sale an half acre lot
V.exy fit fvir a tavern ; it i« well watered, and an ex-
cedent Hand .or that buiinei-i. This property wili
1> ( full f>;r ready money, and altogether or fepaifc
ate, as may uelt lult the jnirchafer ;Tt TayTTTri tiiif n»
lower fide cf Alexandria, which is now improving rtl
very fait. A fketchof the ground may ba&eik in ufc
the handß of the Printer hereof. For terms at th
private sale, apyly to Wm. Hartsiiorne, or to &
the fufcfcriber, inAlcxandna.
JOHN HARPER. j a .
September 3 iawSw tQ
Wants Jlmployment, lai
A YOUNG MAN, \yho hasferved a regu- ' b '
' . ' ar a PP!"-ntice(hip ta the mercantile b°fi- •
nelt in this city, to engage in a Counting
iioufe or office, writes a good hand and under- ?
stands accounts, can be well recommended ar.d !"
■ security given if required. Enquire at the
office of this Gazette.
i" ne " gawtf
Balkenridge—ior sale ~
IT consists of 920 acres, all of which is
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenccof the late
Eerl of Sterling). It may becoiiveniently dnided
into five four of which are bounded on the .
East by the river Pafaiek. I
Thtrn are on ita number of buildings, forming
afquare of nearly three aeres—The houfe
is a very convenient one, andja final 1 expflTce would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard coimflsof I joo
«d AppleTre«—and there is on other pi "tsolfaid
traA near 300 oth«u- Apple frees—as also a great tic
variety of other fraits, particularly Cherries of the •
bell and Riod delicious kinds, * n
Also, a great nu;aber of beautiful Exotics and gr
Forrll 1 rew, that add to ths beauty and eonveni
ence of . the place. Itslituation is about 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do. th
fr»m Morris-Town, and iz fror* Springfield It f u
is wooded and watered. °
1 o lave trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in calh, 011 delivery of the deeds. Please to tn
qnirc of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chsfnut treet.
tboiary a. eodtf
Patent Ploughs, tit
TO be fold for calh by Joseph Salter at Atfion th
Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry—••Jonatlwin
Harker, Woodbury—and Jefle Evans, Lumber
ton, Those who h jve used them give them the
preference to my other kind, as ihey require
Ufs team, breiK the ground better, are kept in
order at less expence and are l'old at a cheaper
rate—the plan is much fimplified and consists of
but one piece of cast Iron, with the handles and
beam of wood ; they miv befixed with wrought tha
hys and coulters to be ptt on with l'crewi ar.d —'
taken off at pltafure ths
Patent tights Icr ; ending with inflruflions for pu
making them may be had by applying to John ra '
Wewbold, or the l'ubfcrjber No. su Noph F*'
Front-flreet. or
Who has for Sale; _
Or to Leafc for a term of Tears,
A number of valuable trads of Land, well -p
situated for Mills, Jron iVorks or Farms, nit- }'
ly improved, chiefly in the county of Hun
tingdon Hate of Peitnfjrlvanu. Those wh« may
lacline to view tkem will please to apply to d
John Canan cfq. near Huntingdon. '
Claries Newbold. •
i"'y '7 aawtf i ct
To be Let, Z
An airy three Story Brick House, VVI
ON the South tide of Filbert Street, betwe-.n ' Mii
Eighth and Ninth street. formerly oveuai«d
at the Surveyor General's Olhcc— Enquire at No.
Hi, Chefnut Street.
su S uftlO c»it I '
AT? \CT
Fv fh; fvtlef of tb- Kfirgees from the ftritiflj
princes of C.anarin and Nova-Scotia.
Sec 1. ft® n ena^l ' l b t! - e Senate and House
he ' 1) of Rcpre/er.ta'tirs of the United
a- States tf in pf. miilcd, That
u " to farisiy the claims of certain perlouS claiming
lands uftrlef the reiohit'oas of Congrtfs, of the
tweii&y-third of April, ose thousand seven hun
'l dred ar.d eijhty-t'hree, end the thirteenth of
■ 1 Aptil, one thousand seven hundred and eighty
cr five, as res". r*es from the British provinc.3 of
and Nova-Scotia, the Secretary for the
Departmint of V/w, be, and i» hereby autho
( ' rired and direi£l> dto give notice in o«e or more
12 of the public paper* of each of the States of
[2 Vermsnt, Mafiiishtifetts, New-York, New
.j Ham)j-iire ami Pennsylvania, to all pert'oni hav
y ing chims un<iqr the said refol-utions, to tranf
-9 mit to the War-office, within two years after 1
the pipag of this ail, a jult ami true account 1
9 of their claims to the bounty of Congrtfe.
Sec. i. And be it further enacted, That no
otli.Tperfous Pnali be entitled to the benefit of the 1
6 p'rovifions of this ail, thin those of the fallow
ing dcfcripiions, or their widows and heirs, viz.
First, those heads of families, and £«>;!<■ per
sons, not meriibers of ar.y such fiuan -s, who
3 were reliUents in one of the provinces afore'a'i!, ,
prior to the fourth day of July, one thoulind ,
3 seven hundred and seventy-six, and who aban- ,
3 doncd their settlements, in consequence of hav- ;
3 ing given aid to the United Colonies wr States, j
» in the revolutionary War igaiaft <
or with intention to giv<r Inch uid, and conrinu- I
2 ed in u Unitid States, or in their frrvice, dur- i
ing the laid war, ami did not return to re£de in J
the dominions of the king < f Oreat-liritain, 1
(1 prkir to the twenty-fifth of November, one
thonfsnd seven hund:ed and eighty-three. Se- f
;r ' ccntllv, the widowi and ftcirs of all luc.h per
nj 1' n:i as were aflual residents, as afoi'efaid, who 1
a aliaudoned their settlements, as aforefaid, Mil t
,r died within the United States, or in their fer- a
e vice during the said war : and thirdly, all per- f
fans who were rnembers of families it lhe time !
of t heir coming into the United States, ar*l who
j during the war, entered into their fervicc.
0 See. And be it further erased, That the
|( prou} ot the levcral circumff.ancrs necelTary to
s entitle the applicants to lhe benefits of this afl; ,
r niay l>t taken before a judge of the fypreme or
. dillriil court cf the United States, or a judj»e
e of the supreme ur fttperior court, or the F.rit jut' f
ticc or firft judge 1.; the court oi common pleas f
or county courrol iiny State. j
t Sec. 4. And be it further enaftrd. That at (
the expiration of fifteen months from ar.d after £
the palTiug of this ail, and from time tu time f
thereafter, it shall be the duty of the Jecretai y I
1 sot the Department of War, to lay fw;h evi
dence of chims as he may have received, before
[ the Secretary and Comptroller of the Treafurv,
; and with them, proceed to examine the tefti
; mony, and give their judgment what quantity
; of land ought to be allowed to the individual I
5 claimants, rti .proportion to the degree of their
■ efpeiflive ferviees, facrificce arid fufTeringl, in
consequence of their a: tachment ts the cause of
the United States ; allowing to those of the firft
class a q'lar, thy net exceeding one thr*j find acres ; 11
'fiid to the last class, a quantity not exceeding r
1 ode bundrrd, making such intermediate claftcs 0
as the rclolutioßSaforefaid, and difirihutive jttf
tice, may, in their judgment require, and make 2
report thereof, to Congrels. And in c:fe any
such claimant shall have fuftainedfuch and A
luflerings, or ptrfAi med such fervides for the 1
United States, that he canrtot justly bt clalled
in any one a fepat-ate report (hall C
be nude a! his circutulUnces, together with the
quantity of land that to be allowed hirn, 1
br v iflg reference to th« foregoing ratio : Pro
■vided, that in coufiJcrir.g whit compeaf:tian z
oftjiht to be i;.-i2e by virtue of this ait, all grants
except^military grants, which may have been 2
mcUfftuqjtiamr. n, in.li. '..j.i.l 2
(hall he coiifijertd at the jnft valu* thei-eof, at
the time the lame were made, refpeiftively, ei-
iher in wlwle or in part, the cafe may be, a '•
fatisfaiflion to those who may have rsceived the
fame: Provided also, that no claim under this
law, (hail be affigualnle until after report mide b
to CoNgrela, it aforefaid, and until the /aid
lands be granted to the perlbns entitled to the
benefit of .tUi.j a<3.
Sec. 5. Be it further enact,-d, That all claims
in virtue of said rc s olutions of Congress, which
shall not be exhibited as aforefaid, within the
lime by this ail limited, (hall forever thereafter
be barred. E
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker tf the House of Representatives
TH : JEFFERSON, a
i'iee-freft dent of she United States,
ar.d President if the Senate. 'j
Approved, 7, 1798.
JOHN ADAMS,
President of tlx United States. c .
Depofiled among the Rolls in the office of the v '
Department of State, tJ
Timothy Pickering, g,
Secrttary of State. a i
ctr Pftrfaant to the alo%c Ad, No
tice is hereby given to all perfcns hav- Q '
ing claims under die resolutions of Con- ri
grefs, of the 23d of April, 1783, and
the 13th of April, 1785, to tranfmitto o
the War-Office within two years after
the pafling of the said Aft, viz. the 7th '}■
day of April, 1798, a just and true ac
count of their claims to the bounty of vi
Congress.
In the proof of Claims, a ftrift: atten- co
tion mull be paid to the requisitions of ! !c
* A 11»
the 2u and 3d Scclions of the Aft. tb
JAMES M'HENRY, tei
Secretary of War.
July 19 jaw&w
AURORA OFFICE,
October 10, 1798. -a
Reports having been circulated
that THE AURORA was not to be rc-publilhcd, m
—The public tre hereby refyc«slfully iofomicd Q (
that the wunt of hacds alone has it* re
publication fevcral days a^o; but that such ar- 1
racgemcnts ar< now making a» will afTure the
p«uratice-of th« paper courfe of tire prcfent, iiw
or the firil weekwf the next month. qc
-r ■- t Ct
M ails for South-CarSlintf Gc orgia, P 3
PACKETS are now provided for carrym* the rci
Public mailiby water between Philadelphia
and Charleston. Tb(ty will leave Philadelphia
on Friday's. The poll by Hind will hecontinii- j
ed twice a week until an ex pendent is made in
regard to the expedition end regularity ol the
packet;. If any perlon clinics to have their r ~]
letters lent by land only, they will please to
write the word Lund upon the letter* : other- un
wife-thev will bt sent by that conveyance which Cia
will firft dart alter the letters are left in t-e z "
•Kill-i.fiice. «'
Jcfcph Haberjham,
Poji-Majler Cemcrl.
I PhUadelykj,
i
ti/b s Pubii/hcJ,
J And for Tale at the G.Ve of the Editor, |f ; .,
n ,r e JJ9 C'e nut-flrtrt,
; ,'j ( Prl " >-* th of a Dollar,)
hat ANO-RATION,
lag Att , Prr.» : .u | ,cniJuJy 4 ,„ 9 8,
the S tne In ,ibi "nt» of the Town of
un- ' m of the inm*
o j: verfary of American Independence,
ty- <( -5y Jos lah QyTHcr.
iof " Trie inro-ida upon our public liberty, rail"
the '°r reparation —The wrongs we havefuftained,
no- cili for—y usticc. That Reparation and tint
ore "=Y >' et be obtained, by Union, Spitit,
of a ' I'irmnetj. But to di-vide nnd conquer was'
:w- ' !e ,na xjm of the Pevil in the garden of Ede^,
av- to disuni te iriu enslave hath been the pri.ici
,nf. pie of ail lju votaries from that period to the
•, er piefent."
unt' Oiiet-viHiain on the Boston Port-Bill, SsV a,g
nn
TREASURY DEPARTMi^,.
Tr- "NJ OTIC f IS HEREBY given! That 'by vir.'
<ho C , ue of a » a( S» pafled during the prafent fef.
i: ' d ' "°An A° aSr i(*' f ? n ; Lldl of th ' intituled
ind 4i mafang further provision forthefup
an- „r P fh PU - aml for redemption
iv- M ! , hC I>Uj! '' ; f^t '-paiTed the third day ef*
March, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-'
in b3n fr °™ or allowance
u' fi"Tr C T' C °T C "' y Ca " eJ LoaQ Office and'
ur f",n r m r nt f f e n:, " tes . a "d Indents of !■,-
. Lrefis, is suspended until the twelfth dav <>"
ill" hand h ' C !l Wi " bc the year feven
m, hundred and ninety nnii.
T ~-Tr' 6 ,°c thc ,i 9» id " ion ™d fett'ement of the
Certificate' s , and Indents of Inteieft, at the
er. I reofury, tne Creditor- ---HI t, s entitled t0 rccc ; v *
, £ e^ CS,eSOt f n f L ' d r * lcf ' >cr tfnr, Stockequal
11( ] to the amount of the fa/«i Indents, sn d thc arrcar
-r- a S es of interest du? on their said Certificate» rrinr
:r . to the firfl day of January one thoufand'iiven
11C """dree and ninety one.
h 0 j 1 c at , t |^ e P rirc 'F al fumiof the f-id Loan O.Tice
and final fettlcment Certificates, with the interest
he I j C f n ' :cc £rft day ot January, one thou
to i J e ",; hundr ed ar.d ninety one. will be dis
charged aitcr liquidation at the Treafary, by the
> paym»nt of interest and reimburfiment of princi.'
pal, equal to the funis which would have been
at r Jya '"; ,^' rt, °"' lf the fjid Certificates had been
-as f"?,' pU r r! ' aant t0 thl; making p, ovlfion
forthe debts of the United Status cqntraflcd enr.
ng t.ic late war, and by the payment of oth-p
eq«„l to thomarket v,l u e of the'rewauiiii»
er which would have been created by such
Tie fu,iknptions which market value will
,iy be determined by the Comptroller of theTreafu-y
»- OLIVER WOLCOTT,
rC . _ Secretary tf the Trcafaryi
J une a 8„ lawtf
ty General Poft-Office,
ill for carrying the mails of the
?ir United States on the following routes will
in be received at thisofF.ce until the 20th day of
Q f September ne:;t inclusive.
rft I. From Pittlburg P. by Cannonftmrg, Wa(b
- s. ington, Weft-Liberty, Wheeling and Wills-
Og town to Z'anes at the mouth of Licking-creek,
on tie Mulkingum, estimated 140 miles.
4 f. Leave Pittlburg e»ery F,ridav at 2 p. m. and
|. e arrive at Zaues the next Monday by Bp. m.
Ty Returning—Lave Zanes every Tuefdav at j
a. M.-and arrive at Pittlburg the next Fri.lav by
| le 10 A. M.
;d 2- From Zanes, at the mouth of Licking
all Creek on the Mnlkingum, by Chilicothe and
i, e MalTey's to Mayfville in Kentucky ; estimated
n 140 miles.
0- Leave xianes every T«cfday at ?A. M. and
, n arrive at Mayfville the wrxt Friday by 10 A. M.
ltß Keturnhg—Leave MtyfvilL- every Friday by
2 P. M. and arrive at ZaneSihe next Moadav by
•*,- 8 p. M.
at The carriage of the mails to commcnce on ihe
flrfl dav of No<ember next and continue Until
a ' , c J-iy of Oilyber 1800. Payments will
if be made quarterly.
j s The uiual pen:iltjes for delays and failures will
3e be llipulatcd in the contrail.
id Jofepb Habcrjham,
C rn,-I JI f r Pofi-Mtjier General
iTiiladel|jhca. July 13, jigg m&:hf>w
X HEALTH OFFICE. ~
er Philadelphia, \JI Mty, 1798.
Extract of an a3 to alter and amend the Health
Laws of this Commonwealth, palfed 4th April
1798. l
ocSl. 8- A ND be a furthcr en a died by the au
J- X. thority alorelaid, 'i hat every house.
keeper within the city ef Philadelphia, tile town,
ftips of the Northern Liberties and Moyatmnfing,
and didriA of Southwark, within a mil* of thc li- '
mitso: the city, tu.'tu.g in boarders arriving by fta
"or by land, from any foreign port or place, and ha
vingany boarder in lust,: herlamily, who Ilia 11 b e
take 11 Cck o! any difcafe whatsoever, between the
firftdayof May and the firfl day of November in
any year, wirhin to-enty days neit after such boar
der tttsll Co-lie to lodge in his or her house, shall
j. v/ithin 24 hour* next after the kjuunledgo rrH*ch
Ccknefs. make report at thc Health.Office of the
name <,f such ftck perfou, the time of his or her ar
-- rival at the house and of his or her being taken sick,
, and of the name and place of abode of such houfe
kcep r; wherein>on thc Pliyfician of the Health
-0 Office thali forthwith visit the patient, and report
.J. to the office his opinion of the nature of such dif
eafa, tlilt mcafures may be taken to prevent the
ll (preadiiig of the infeaion; and if any iionfekecyer
V to give information in the manner and
within the time aforcf-id, and flialthe rhercof ccn
■l viJed, ill any court of criminal jurisdiAion witl',in
this Comnionwealtk upon indidcmei tby verdict
or coafeffion, he or she (hall forfeit and pay a fn ; e
co the life of the said hospital, not less than twerty
f dollars, nor more than one hu.idred dollars, to be
impoffd at the dife'retion of the court, according to
the oircumdances of greater or lefsaggravation = at
tending each particular cafe.
By order of the Board of Health,
WM.ALLfPJ, HeakhOfficer
_ tewjm of the Port of Philadelphia
CAUTION,; '
1 H . ER - i '- ASacerta ' n P tl " f onf'»i«it]lrd'
1 V V from me ou the firlt imb by pivinp
me in b'eu thereof a forged check onihe Bank
of North Americn, anot%of that date, drawn
in my favour by Mr.T o hn Trawsi and pay,
. able in fix months, fflr tfifee thousand iour
hundred a«d fifty seven dollars andfforty-i s
cents. ALL persons are desired not to re
ceive any transfer of it, a» it will not be
, P by either the drawer or endorser unlefa
c recovered by law.
a WILLIAM NICHOLS,
5 Race Street,
august 6.
c ihe i-'ublic are hereby informed,
r X HAI ' cot "'-" an to authorifc Col Wli
J X iam Nichols to declare, that I would nor n,-
. un'efs recovered by law, my note alluded t« j n his
, caution of tke 6th ofAugua, publiftud in the Ga
zette of the United States of laA evening f fin
lament hi. 101., and t.ld bim I wonld do
al, 1 could do confidently with my credit to fei »t
ami, ><«t went no lurtiier.
7QI/X TRAVIS.
august 7