!f V
of m lEtlttfctJ Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
/ By John Fen no, N°- xi 9 Chefnut Street.
tsM 15-5$ ] PHILADELPHIA-. MONDAY EVENING, JANUARY 8, 1798. &olvmb XIII.
"ft-.
V,
For Savannah,
TO SAIL THE FIRST OPENING,
. - The fift failing Ihip
SWIFT PACKET, ;;
I P»T*m Onußit!?Maft'jr, i
' NOW lying the firft -#harf below (J
Martet Stre.f—has handsome a<- j.
commodations for palfengtr l ! —far flight or pal
fage apply to the Mailer on board, or to £
N. if J. Frazfr,
No. 95, South Front Street.
Who have on hand, and for Sale,
Prime Rice, in whole and half ti.rccs, Georgia C
and Carolina ladigs, MolaiTes id lihds, Teneriife
wine, &c. &c /
December 27 3tawtf.
Wanted to Charter, F
A. Britift vuffel, fifteen hundred q
to two thousand fiwe iiur.drsd bar-
Peter Blight,
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
Choice Red Port Wine in pipes a»d hog(tea
and old London Particular Madeira, fit k>r imaie- C
diate use, in pipes. x
December 10 Jiw S
Tor Charleitoii,
THE SHIP \
. VENUS,
; . Lying at tic wharf of blcffrs. Perotts
i w " f - a^c Freight on very
ij low terips, and fail the firlt *
to the maittr on boards or tp
Jos. Anthony & Co.
Detember <8 § is
For Amsterdam,
The Sl)if> 1
farmer,
J OHN M'Coh-loiß, Mailer ;
WILL fail in a few days, the
greater jjjirt of her eargo beir.g
ready. Forfrelght of fifty tons of Coffee, or pas
sage, apply to ' the mailer on board, at Walnut- 11
street whlrf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is I&iiding, out of the said Ship, from Bour
deajjx, and For Sale, I
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter calks
Clarat in cases, of a superior quality j
Fantiniac, J ,f
•Sautedie, > Wiaes in cases
Lunille, )
Prunes in boxes
november 44. 5
For Londonderry,
THE BRIGANTINE
WituiAM Whitten, Mailer.
- ahmr -
hundred tens, to fail witn an convenient ilpeed, a
■ great part of her oargo engaged—now lying at
Willing and Francis's wharf. For freight or pas- -
lage, apply to the captain, or 1
JOHN SKYRIN, |
Lartt/epkrgcr's £
Who wants to Charter. f
A Vessel of about three hundred tons. c
, nov ! 8. §
t——— ■ • 1
f For Sale or Charter,
she Snow
* . GOOD HOPE, )
Will carry about uoo barrels,and ,
?! * 3 rea<l y t0 in a cargo. For terms
> apply to
P.ragers If Co.
No. 151, South Second-flreet.
j Who have for fak—prime St. Croix Sugar and ;
Rum, Madeira, Lilbon, and Teneriffe v/ir.e.
November 7. dtf. |
For Liverpool,
The copper bottomed Ship '
Packet,
Captain Silas Swain.-
•' A Large proportion of her
* cargo being ready to go on
boafd, is expeflcd to fail on or ibout Sunday, the
3d of December.
- For Freight or Faflage, apply td the Captain on
board, at Walnut-street Wharf, or to
PHrUP NICKLIN y Co.
November 11. §
5
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captain Ch i s hol m,
new velTel, with excellent
aceommodations for passengers
Sails on the *orh of Deccnii>er. For Freight or
Pafiage, to ROSS fs)* 51 MSGN.
Who h-voe to dispose of t
A small invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
November 18. §
i To be fold,
n AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
s, Ex. ing 6 acres and 40 perches, wkli a neat two
it llory brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
d Orchard, &c. situate on the Irifli trail lane, ih the
- townlhip of Moyameafing, about one mile from 1
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will v
:, be m.nie known upon application at the olFice of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon tJiis place, fortafte and
elegance, Hand unrivalled.
December I. dtf
1 The Subscriber intends to* make
application for th.e renewal of a Certificate of a Share
0 in the Bank of ihe United States, (landingln tfe name
13 of A. B. No. 5004, dated July 11, 1797, the fame
n having been lott. JOflN GRAHAM.
* Richmond, Dec. I. ; :ow
ROSS S3 5 SIMS ON,
HAVE F-»a SALE,
e A few bales J3aftas, Co/Tas, and
'- a quantify of Bengal COTTON
't Bengal SUGAS., in bags and boxes
Jamaica, "J
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and Bengal J
30oca&s RICE, and
A parcel of Ihip building RED CEDAR.
OA. 27- }
1
NrcKLrN Ssf Griffith,
At *he'r. Stcwe fa Walnut timetVvhisrf—
have for sAtr,
58 bbdj. of Jamu'ca Hum 2
'■Lucira Wine in pi:-3 and-hhds. L
Tcntriffe do. in pipes ti
Old Port do. in hhds.
Imp"rul Tei~in quarters and eighth* ct c!>efls u
"Sj.l Canvafe, N». 1, to 2 p
Dimities, Ginghairie, and Maflirets, in packa
gr» fui:ablc fOrthe Weft li.uva maAet
Nails aflorted
Black quart bottles
Qiieens ware in hhds. and crates
Yellow ochre d. v i:i casts ;
And at New-York, on board the
Ihip Diana, from Liverpool, ex jarttd round
as loon aa the navigation*is 0p;.,.
Fine Liverpool Salt
Coals
Spariilh Brown "j
Venetian Red
?±sr \
White lead j 1
Red lead J
Colcothar vitriol
160 bundles Sheathing paper
Seaming tw'ne
Ship Diana,
For Sale or Charter.
ALSO,
vi. I .'' v Brig Amazom.
t . .. B
N ft. tliejate firm of Phibp Nickhn Co. c
is now changed to \
NICKLIN a- GRIFFITH.
January 1. eodtf
Insurance Company of North l
America. c
THE fitociholders are hereby nicd, that a n
dated meeting of the Company will be held at q
their' cffice on the ninth day of JVnua.-y next (be- s
ingthe 'fecoud Tuesday in the month) for the Eiec- r
tion of twenty-five Direftors for the ensuing year. §■•
EBEN. HAZARD, Sec'ry. jj
December 14. t^i&mt9thj
Pennsylvania Population ' Com-
pany.
TKE Shareholders are hereby noticed, that an
Ele&ioh of Officers for the ensuing year, will be
■held At the Company'soffice, n0.53, Dorth Fourth
street, on JVednefday, the loth daj of January
next, at 12 o'clock. d
By order 01 the Board, b
SOL. MARACHE, Sec'ry. (
December 16 dtiothj
■THE AMERICAN LADIES
POCKET-BOOK, for 1798.
JUST PUBLISHED
By WILi,I4 M X, SI•cCH,
! No, 17, leeond-ftreet—containing
t A N elegant Ftontifpiece of the Marquis de la Fay- t
fl ette, and hi» Family, in the callk of Olmutz,
with an illustration ; being an account of the princi
pal events in the public lite of the Maiqxiii, witn a
sketch of the fufferings of himfelf and his unlortunate
family. A complete Almanack—lo4 ruled pages
for memorandums, observations, if.c. alfo,for account
of monies paid and received for every day in the year
—1 marketing and other ufeful tables—general meet
- ings of of births, dea'hs, &c—new
country dances, poetry,'fongs, enigmas, &c. &c.
/ ALSO,
The Gentleman's annual Pocket Remembrancer, J
for 1798 — an Almanack ; 104' rulea p?._'s c
for memorandums and calh account ; Duties pav-able i
oa gootls imported into the United States, Cutiom
-8 cui'e fees, &c; ftarap duties, 10 take place afttr the
3 iltDeci mber;a lilt of the post towns a-.d ciofs-roads
in ihe United B'.ates-1 a varie:yof uleful
interefting matter.
W. Y. BIRCH, conllantly keeps for sale, a
affortmentof Merchant's account ftooks, and ot-her
flat onaiy goods, and makes to older books of. any
fiee ,"and ruled to any pattern. ..
Elegant Maps,oll Rollers, and a large Chait of tfce
Wefi-Indies.
Hair and leather Trunks—Playing Cards, Englilh
and American. Dec. 7 —* 31.
Tin Plates,
FOR SALE BY
SIMON WALKER,
n '
e Pine, near Fifth street.
December aB. iw
n Hyson and Young Hyson Tea.
A few cheftp of excellent quality, For Sale, cor- *
ner of Second and Pine streets.
December 26. eotf
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL presents his
mod complimentj to his fovm
tir employers and the citizens in general, and re
turns his molt grateful thankfc, for the very
it bountiful encourageqneut he ha« expetienced for
tnefe twenty-five years part, takes this opportu
>r nity of informing them, that his school is now
open, at his
Elegant Ball Room,
in south Fourth-Street, between Chefnut and
Walr.ut-ftreets. To begin at 10 in the morning
—' for young ladies, and 6in the evening for young
gentlemen.
i- Dec. 8. lawtf. '
ie Tfie Subscriber, :
'e Informs those to whom he is indebted,'that his 1
11 books, which have been kept open for their infpec-
M tion ftnee December 1796 are /balaaced to the J ift
ult. and will during the present month -remain
open at his Couuting-houfe in Chefnut Street for
'd their further investigation fcrut'ny.
JAMES GREENLEAF. 1
Philadelphia, Jan. ill 179^.
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
it XT /"ILL commence drawing Monday, thezoth
ie VV inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottary, a:
. Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
w and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Seconf-flrset—
Tickets 111 the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Tin
Dollars, where check books are kept ior render
ing and examiiungf inthafe, the City at Walhing
-1 ton, No. 11. and Paterfon Lotteries, and itiforma- j
tion where tickets may be ha« Tin mod of the Lotte
ries authoriliid by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. Ths bnlinrfs of aBROKK*, in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Stoclc and Securiti 'i,
difcoutitiig Bills and Notes of Hand, f.Uc of
Lands, Iloufes, &x. &c. will b." di'y attended to,
by Wm. EL-.CKEDRN.
firve&ber 15. §
i
t
W■ ■ -
NOTICE. •
\ LL perf?ni3 who have any demands agair.fl an
2\. lb* ffli'e of Vjllam i LEtwrooD', of »!
Liverpool, late cf PhiUdt'j'h'i. de of
ceased, qre requcfted to exwtm their at counts,
properly aitilled ; anil thole wlvo are indebted
to Uie Tame, are delired to make imiriediate
payment, to
" ' K I
J>.o. 25, So. Third-ili eet. ) t
fanuarv 4. dtf
ran S'//./<•,
By JOHN MILLER, jun. & Co.
No. 8, Ch.lnut-ftreet, ,
One hundred and eighty bales
1 BENGAL GOODS,
/'iciongft whiclyare,
Gurrahs Mamoodies
Saunas i
Gkzz nahs Tanda Coffies 'V
-Guzzies Emertics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palampoors Romall Handkcichi -fe el ■
•Among# them are a great proportion of the nil
rr.anufaAures of Patna.
December I. t ?
JUST RECEIVED, m
(via New-Vork) '
NOW OPENING, BV cl .
George Dobson, I*
No: If, fauth Third street,
An cxtcnfive and general afiortinent of th
HABERDASHERY, viz. c p °
Beft«London mint Pint Galloons and Ferrets
. Common do. do. Worfied Bindings,aflbr-
MakeuaieYfuper,patent ted colours
whitechapel Jvtedles Imperial, diaper, and
Nuns Thread no. 6 to Thread Tapes
40, regularly aSortui White Edgings
I Lil}e do.tio. 110 to jeo, Black nd coloured Chi- j
regularly blluitcd nefe Ribbands.
CoJoured do. Sattin and figured do.
1 Blaek sewing Silks BlackV»lvet, 1-4 to lid '
' Coloured do. and Twill Velvet & pelon Sattißs
' Silk and cotton Wires French Cambrick
* Do. da. Ribbands Scotch do.
• Shirt Moulds atid Wires Plsin gilt and plated ,n
Black brulh Feathers * Buttons
And a cojnpleat assortment of Geods, suitable
to the prtlent and approaching feafun, at reduced C J;
prices. Dec. 6. dtf
Employment for ihe Poor. Fl
FLAX roR SPINNING,
f To given out every fccond, fourth, and sixth
day morning, between the hours of IO and 11 —
back of 110.5 a, louth Fifth street, ahove Spruce
ftreet. > - m eodaw
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in whole and calf tierces
Bout deaux Brandy
Teneriffe IVine -»
Molajjcs If
Georgia mttd txroJiffQ Indigo e( i
Ravens Duck and one hogjhead of pai'it
'- brushes. U
N. Csj* y. Frazer.
a No. ss,Sonth Front Street.
e Nov; 7. dim .
it i'refh Raisins. ;;
ir
<4
A Small cargo, jufl arrived, and now landing '«
at Chefnut rtrcct v/harl, f-om the iloop Yap
ricoj, capt. PlafkeU, conning of Kegs, Soxes ond
r> jar.-. A fcW j.ir« of excellent Grapes, and sacks
:5 of foft flailed Almonds. Apply to the Mailer j £
Ie on hoard, Wto
wif >. Anthony Is? Co. ,
j December 19 §'t
d Impor.tetl (via New York) on the £
s ! Clip Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for > u
•r sale by tr»c fubferibtr, at No. 6j, Chefnut street,
y between .--'coni and Third Streets, the follow
ing ariici. s . ri
:e Mahai agonges fiharcpnna Do.uns
Chihti and Calicpes Sacca worked muslins L
h Gillis Romals Bandanqoes
Nillas 3c Penfial'oes Chafia Romals
Blue <Soth Hair ribbon \
MuIlM vllHiarxkerchiefs PalfeiApores '
Patr.a do. Panares Opium
Lelfy Cardimum Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox. • p
november 17 tuths4w a '
L . NOW LANDING, ' c
From on board the Ihip Farmer, lying at Harper's f r
Wharf, J
Claret in hhds.
I/ittO in cases
Sauterne Wine in do.
15 For Sale, apply to
'* yohn Whitefides iff Co.
y No. 138, Market-street. ~
)r Also, en hand,
j. Bour'deaux Brandy in pipes
w Fine old Antigua Ruin N
A few cases of Claret, of a superior quality.
novemb'r io. J
, d Stolen e
g Out of the fubferibot's office a large If ue "
•'& clothcleak,half worn. The inside of the Collar g
13 faced partly with scarlet velvet and partly j<
- with scarlet cloth, and it has a Slvlfr hook V
and chain as a faftening. A suitable reward
j s will be paid for restoring it.
c- WILLIAM MEREDItH
No. 111 South 3d Street.
Dec. j6. ' drw
FOR SALE, r
By the Sußsc&iaEß, at his Store, No. 75, South
Water-ftrett, o
~ A general assortment of China
Ware
:h Blaclt and coloured.Sattins
it Do. do. I-.utefl.riHg s
y Do. d«. Handkticiiiefs
Do. do» fewing^Silks
tn Imperial and Hyson Tsafe
r- Long and fliort .^ac.keens
r- Quick Silver, in tubs
a-j Holland Oin, in pipes \\
e- Allbrrcd Glass Ward, in cases J;
i€ White and hrown Havanna Sugars., in boxes
Molafles, in
id Croix Ruin and Sugar, in do.
■i, particular Madeira Wine
of Sherry and Malaga Wines, in quarter calks
o, Red, and pale Barks, in chcfts c
Logwood, &c. &-c. c
7. tu&f 4 w JOSEPH SIMS. C
TO LET,
A front Parlour, Ratable for
an Office ; a Room, tuxnilhedor unfurni(h«d ; and
ilarge Cellar, wh.ch will either for ftcfage
of a bottling c lUr.' Enquire at no. 14, #outh
Fifth-llrtet. t Jan 6.—*_t
i3ai?k of North America,
January 1, 1798.
AT a meeting of the Dire&ors this day, a divi
dend of sis per cent, was declared for the last
half year, which will be paid to the Stocluioldcrs or
thtir reprefiutative. at any time aftor the iotb inft.
By order of the board,
JOHN NIXON, President.
dtroth
Bank of the United States,
Jatiuay Ift, 1798.
rMn Diredor"; have this day declared a dividend
of Entssn dollar. <m each fitere for the lalt fix
m»i:ths, — -i-lfo art dividend of four dol
lars on each inare, arificg from surplus profits.'
WJiich dividend* will he paid to the Stockhold
ers, or their lcral reprcfentatives, after the ioth
nil. d6t
GEORGE SIMPSON, Cafbier.
i he owners of the Brigantine
Mefourv, William Uron, mjfter, ciptiired hy
a Spanilh privateer and [old at Ccv.ta in last De
cember, may receive interfiling information res
pecTing her, by applying to the Depirtment of
Sts'e.
*. * The Printers in the sea-port towns of
the United States will render a service to the
concerned, by inserting the above in tbeir iiewl
papers. > J.in 3.
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
. No.»rie Walnut-street,
INFORMS those who wifti to recur to the only
means of becoming perfe.fl in the French Lan
guage, that lie has just opened his Library, con
fining of upwards of o volumes, the best cal
culated to afford either ufeful inftru&ion, or plea
fare. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may be seen at every book-Jellex
in town.
n. b. All translations from and into the French,
Eriglifh and Spanish Languages, with ac
curacy and dispatch. coina nov. 15.
Landing this day,
From on board ths fchoonerTwo Friends, Dan
iel Crawley, Matter,
" d S Jamaica RUM, '
FOR SALE BY
George Latimer & Son.
uovember 9. $
FOR SALE, at
Wm. Young's Book Store,
No. 52, Seeond street, the corner of Chefnut street,
REPORT of the Committee of the House qf
ReprofentativecofthaUniceJ ottocs, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
against WILLI 4.M ELOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeached of high crimes and rnif.
demeanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of
the Houf«of Representatives, authorizing the said.
Committee to fit during the recess of Congress, and
infttqiling them " to enquire, and, by all lawful
" means, todifcever the whole nature and extent
" of the offence whereof the said William Blount
«' (lands impeachej, and who arc the parties and
" tlrVein "
Printed, by order qf ihe Htufe of Reprefentath'es,
December 10. 5
j Chocolate and Multard,
of :i superior quality matiufadlured,
GINGLR and Pepper, ground ; shelled or
pearl Bjrley ; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
Ale and Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Ale ;
London Porter ; Ted, Port and Lisbon Wine,
i'flitahld for exportation or home coNfutrption.
' The htgUeft pi ice given for Mullard-Seed.
Also for sale, A quantity of Bocking and
common Bairn, a variety of colors; a baleof
Fuftiaxis, Shawls, jic. for fMe by
JOHN HAWORTH,
No. 98, south Front-Ureet.
nov- 2i. > m.&lh.t.iJ.
I HOMAS U AN DAL L,
PR ESIiNTS his refpefl* to his Friends, and the
Public in pencral, informs tbelm that he has opened
an O'llice, at hi* house, No. 88; Spruce street, - for
the purpole of tranfailing business in the line'of
Con,million and Agency, collecting rents and otit
franding djims in any part of the United States.
He flatters himfelf, that from his long refideccc in
this countiy and a general ltno%vledpe ofit, hisfer
cices will be found worthy the notice of those who
may please to confide to him the management of
i any of their concerns.
N- B. Security given where required,
nth mo 24 3tawtf
FOR SALEI
By BENJAMIN CLARK,-
No. '55, the corner of Chefnut and FroiJ: streets,
• A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Also, a general aflortment of Tootr, ,
Eiles and Materials, co»fifting of Clock Movt
e ments, eight day ?nd thifty liour brass pinions
arid forge work ; Beljs, clock a«d watch Dials,
r Springs, Hands, Glaffes v<l Pui\ice Stone, Emery,
' Rotten Stope, Cat Gut; bench, Hand and t.i
; Vices; Turns, Pliers,Chains,Seals,Keys, &c. <Scc.
3 * % * Apprentices Wanted.
November 3. f&tutf *
Insurance Company
OF THE STATE OP PENNSYLVANIA.
v
nrHl' Stockholders are h«ntl»y noticed, that ati
i X Election foi* thirteen Direitors to serve for
one year, will be held at th» company's Office, oa
Monday, the eighth day of January next, at . 1
o'clock.
SAM. W. FISHER, Sec'ry.
December 14 dtgthj
Bank of North America.
THE Stockholders are hersby notified, tha' aa
'lt-'U.in for twelve for the ensuing year,
will be held at the Bank ou Monday, the Bth ot
January next, at ten o'clock.
RICHARD WELLS, Caper.
P-ccmber it. 'ltßtbf
Alphabetical Lift of Duties,
Payable by law 011 all liO' ds, Wares, and M r
chacdiz;, impofted into the United Stages —h:al
edition, to be fold by JOIUJ ORMROD, no. 41,
Chefntit-Preet. Dec. l 6 -,d«. '-W- "« :r : : ilflliuri
coofoi
%X)t <3?iszUt> 3 v; h
___ . rcvntin
PHtLA DE Ll'lfi A, r4ll «®
imitit
*IoNtJAY EVENING, %■■ and a
- -—* - those
Extract of a charge delivered to the Grand c ; ou
J,-ry of Cumberland county, j\ r ev- Jerfry, R
nt Nowmber fejfion Jtajl, by Jonalh in £I- {^ ces t
mer, Esq. fidtnc
"Of nil tlie vari'#is efforts of the human contei
tm&rrflinding, -for ameliorating the cowditi- laws,
on an J promoting the welfare und happiness al dut
of m. 'ikitvl in this world ; the formation of and ir
civil focietics, and the organization and ad- Bo
r.iiniftration of civil government, are the of the
?r eateil and ifod important. But as ufeful portai
and ntceflavy "a« c^' l government it, to the frequt
fafety and well-being of the human fpec : cs, cated.
its true principles haue been but fmperfo&ly I h
•iaderdood, until very lately: And even at ing al
this lite period of time, it has made flower ligion
advances towards perfe&ion, in almod eve- free r
ry nation, than any other branch "of human prehe
knowledge or fcienee. view.
* In vhe enlightened nation of France, where and b
the cry df liberty has, for forae yeqrs past, eventi
been inceftaotly refoucded, the rights of ci- ,-upe.
tizefis, and the nature of civil freedom, seem iTemen,
not to be well un&rftood in theory, and out, c<
tanrh worfeln prattle*. After three foe- renGc
ceflivc attempts, their present constitution, prelfo
in many parts of it, like many of their mail- vereig
ufafturcs, is rpore splendid and hearts
ufeful and durable; and their public fun&i'- zeus,
on'anes often violate in practice, the plained al virt
principles of liberty and jultice. The con- its, w
dust of that nation affords us a very painful ings c
though indrs&ive leffan. Under the foim and al
of a republic, and uiAer the standard of li- fclicit
berty; they frequently perpetrate a£ta of en
ormous violence, despotism and licentious- (
ness. It becomes us to profit by their mis
takes, and to avoid the rocks on which-they Hlpl
seem likely to be.shipwrecked- While we
cautioufiy guard avenues to opprefffon
and despotism on the one hand, let us with (J
---equal caution and assiduity avoid the oppo- Mr
f:te hod mgre dangerous extreme of licenti- was r
oufnels and anarchy, on the other. prayu
In our republican form of government worfti
there is very littlfc danger from" the exercise vernrr
of arbitrary power. As all our public func- meat
tionaiics derive their authority from the peo- j the a]
pie whom tbev govern} it will be the fault not t<
of the people tbemfelves, if that authority is house
ever long abuf'-d to opprel) theip. But our Mi
crtvn expeeicnce 'in fomt degree, and much J day c
more so, the example of all other republics, the c
as well ancient as modern, teach us, the gre»t whicl
danger of the contrary extreme of weakness, itfelf
instability,. and irant of energy in the exer- fubjc
cife of official duties, in every department nunc
of government, from the highest to the low- were
eft; from the supreme executive officer down I annui
to 'a conflable. The necessary consequence year?
of which mud be disorder, licentiousness, ed at
and a want of due subordination and fubjec- was <
tion to tbs laws and constituted authorities I there
of government. For that constant tenden- I lattet
cv to extreme equality, that swelling
which prevails in all popular governments, 1 the a
when not properly checked and counteract- withi
ed, by a steady and energetic police, has I lowe<
never yet failed- to produce a gradual prof- was\
tration of all moral, civil, and fcientifical | M
diilinftions in society, and finally terminat- I agre
ed in 3narchy or despotism. This evil seem« j unde
itifej)arabl,e from a republican form of gov- 400
eminent, and sooner or later has proved the lars ;
ruin of every free republic that has ever yet years
existed in the world. It remains for ns, by He I
shunning the fatal vortex, to exhibit one I adve
fair exception, to ti ( e humiliating indaflces tizer
o'f all former experience; and to demonstrate upon
to the world, that we kno<H< both haw to I jM
g<4ern and be governed, how to rule, and Com
how.so obev *, and that we brattice what we with
knol _ . ft*!
ICoLwithftar.ding what some speculative ity,
politicians tiMj advance to the contrary, I fom«
will verrture to afTert, that nothing hut the gran
cultivation of virtuous habits, and the influ- been
ence cf.religfous principlts, will eirfure per- Ithef
manent success and duration to the republi- raon
can fyijem of government which we have a- ther
"dopted. . Amidll the jarring intereds, pafli- I not
on% and uurfuits of individuals, if the itrong I A
ties t.f inmate virtue and moral rectitude are I cutr
difTolved, every part ef the social ftrufture j thei
will tremble from its foundation, and the I I.ivi
feeble hand of dur poputar Government, I Mel
without this powtrful support, will be una- I the
' "ble to sustain the tottering edifise. I his j
The precepts of that divine teacher, who j jjo
came down from heaven, to proclaim peace I prot
on earth and good will to men, by regulating I whe
the heart, and corre£ling the discordant pro- I Uni
penfitie? of hutnau nature, afford the mod I mor
cffe&ual uid, for the due 'execution of ha- I a li(
mar. laws ; for supplying the dtfe&s of hu- I yeai
man jurisprudence, for preserving good or- I doll
der, cnirgy, and stability in government, I Gei
and for securing the peace aad fafety of so- I doll
cial lift:. I as f
Religion extreifes an internal and habitu- I
al controul and authority oyer the confcien'c- I 1
cs and aftions of men, and thereby lays the J Ch
only solid foundation of all civil fubordinati- I van
on ar.d social order. It make# men good H«
magiilratesand good citizens, andistheon- I me
Jv effe&ual security of eveTy civil right, and Li
of every social privilege. gai
Mankind are naturally averse to all re* led
draint or controul. Human aftions are vt- nei
xf ftKlom the result of fair deduftion or im- Al
partial inveftigatir-.n. They generally pro
orcd from imfreffion, or imitatlm. It is
therefore of the highest ynpcrtance to eul-* Bi
tivate the moral principle, not only by pre- VJ
cffl, but, by the much more powerful effi- na
ca-.-y of rxamf U. Tt is more especially in- rit
.tuiAheut on all, "who fill public offices, to H
extmpl.iry ki their condn*l, and moral M
in their deportment. For all the laws that W
cante enabled, if ever so ilriclly executed, Si
arefourd by experience, to have much less \l
effeft intcorreflang the vices and disorders, li;
which gradually dernolilh the ramparts of
cfvil liberty and perfoial security, than the a
virtuous eaamples of thofc, whose public fe
ilatibn-j thi-irtfioril tonJnft and habits 1
coaf|>icii':tr<> a:: - i"U lential on other 1 :. eng
\"iicre real virtot aiiJ fwfid morality are o»U
continually held uj> to publif view, by the was
rv.lers of 3 free people, aupjfjfjrn.s worthy of syr
imitat oa, dt«cncy, fobrutr,- order, J
and a willing iubm-ffion to tr.< laws, and to 80.
those i'J a lit' 1 <1 * y, will gencrallv prevail: Clu
but where oldcei a;e filled vytti :negul«r On
vicious and Inrtmoral all revereitxc
and refpedt, both for the men, ?.id the of- L>!
sices they lifid, will be d llroycu ; oil Han
fidtnee in their a£ts w :l be lo). ; a
contempt of authority, a for tnc
laws, and a negle<ft or abuse of all the soci
al duties, will'follow, and general uuoider I
and ifrtglihritv wiilVnfr.c.
1 Bothi cafon und experience prove the truth f» e
of these ofilervutions ; and such is their im
portance to us, that they-can never be'too
frequtmly mentioned, or too forcibly incul
cated. .
I have embraced this opportunity of bint- pQ
ing at the Ttbfo'uita, ii.eceiaty of virtue and re
ligion to tl.e support and preservation of a
free republican government, becaufc I Sp
-1 prehend their importance in this point of
view, hath not bten fufficien'tly appreciated,
and beeaOfe I verily believe this defeft will -
eventually ruin all the rising republics in F.u- lev
icpe. And while I take the liberty, gen
tlemcn, of recommending them to your feri- W
ous consideration, with all the energy of fo
renfie solemnity, may they be indelibly nw- so"
prelfed on my o*n mind. And may the so- ant
vereign rultr of the universe, dispose our
hearts, and the hearts of all cur fellow eitt* P"'
zeus, to cultivate andpraßice thofc fubftanti- £ n
al virtues, and to acquire those religious hab- up<
its, which alone can fecttre to us the bled- I'l?
ings of civil liberty and fociaVhappinefs here,
I and afford us a reasonable profpeft of endless a '
felicity hereafter. on!
■*- mo
C O N G R E S s. ..<
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Lc
us
FRIDAY* JANUARY 5. ill
(Concluded from Saturday's Gazette.) to
I Mr. Baird, from the committee to whom
was referred the petition of David Jones, Mi
praying for an exclufivc privilege in thd wh
I working of a fait spring, reported, that go- wa
vernment having, as yet, made no arrange- vei
. ment as to the disposition of its fait springs, oft
I the application was premature, and ought art
j not to be agreed to—Concurred in by the lo\
house. tre
Mr. Livingdon called for the order of the
I day on the bill soT granting an annuity to tin
I the daughters of the late count de Grade ; thi
which being agreed to, the house resolved foi
, itfelf into a committee of the whole on the an
. fubjeft, Mr. Dent in the chair, and after a th
: I number of desultory observations.the blanks T1
- I were filled up ; viz. the time for which the th
1 annuity Ihould continue was - fixed at five wl
; I years, and the sum per annum to be allow- re)
,led at 500 dollars each. The fird quedion be
- I was determined by a considerable majority, ret
s I there being 57 votes in favour of it £ the id
- I latter was carried 46 to 38. . ui
t I The committee then rose and reported
, I the amendments. They were all agreed to ag
- I without a division, except the sum to be al- te
s I lowed per annum. When that que&ion m
'- I was put ; cr
il I Mr. J. Williams hoped it would not be tn
- agreed to. When the fubjeft '.vas before w
1 j under discussion, the quedion on 500 and pi
- I 400 dollars had been negatived. 500 dol- fh
e I lars a year for the four daughters for five g<
t years, he said would be 10,000 dollars, th
y He thought this a very serious sum, again th
te j adverted to the situation of many of our ci
:s tizens, and called for the Yeas and Nays cc
e I upon the quedion. tl
0 I Mr. Harper alked whether, if, when file c<
d Count de GgifTe was solicited to remain cc
e with the fleet under his command in the '1
Chefapeak, at his own risk and, refponfibil- p<
■e ity, he had asked as a condition that qn
1 some future day, "10,000 dollars should be w
ie granted to his daughters, would it not have ei
1- been complied with ;if it had been ten times la
r- I the sum? And ought his defendants tp be ti
i- I more hardly dealt with, because their fa- h
i- ther had the genetaiity and magnanimity L
i- I not to make the demand? He truded not. vi
g After some observations in favor of con- vi
re I cuiring with the committee of the whole in b
re 1 their vote, by Messrs. Thatcher, Brookes, c;
ie I Livi ngdon and Gordon ; and against it by d
t, I Messrs. Varnum, M'Dowell and Macon— tl
a- I the former of whom faidthat the clergy in la
I his part of the country had not more than e;
10 I gjo dollars a year, and the latter gentleman p
ce I produced three cases of our own cirinena v
ig I who had loft their lives in the feryice of the r
o- I United States, whose familieshad beenmuch' P
ft I more hardly dealt with, viz. the family of c
u- I a lieutenant-colonel who had 450 dollars a f
u- I year granted them—that of a major, 30°
>r- I dollars a year, ai7d that of the marshal of 1
it, I Georgia, whose family h?d a grant of 2000 b
"o- I dollars. The years and Days were taken 1
I as follow : <
:u- YEAS. 1
l'c- I Messrs. Allen, Bjrcf, Bayard, Brookes, 1
he j Chapman, Cochran, Dawfon, Dennis, E- 1
iti- I vans, A. Foster, Gallatin, Gordon, Grove, ]
od Harper, Harrifon, Hartley, Heifter, Hpf- 1
sn- I raer; Hindman, Imlay, Jones, Kittera, 1
md Livingdon, M ac bir, IVl'Clenachan, Mor- 1
gan, Morris, Tfaac Parke/, Pinckney, Rut
re- ledge, Sewall, Sfiepard, Sinniekfon, Skin- 1
vt- nor, N. Smith, Thatcher, Thomas, Van
im- Allen, Van Cortlandt, Wadfworth.— 40.
iro- NAY S.
is Messrs. Baer, Baldwin, Bartktt, Blount,
:ul-* Bullock, Burgei, CabeU, T. Claitorne,
bre- W. Claiborne, Clay, Clopion, Cpit, Da
:ffi- na, Dent, J. Freeman, Gillefpie, Good
in- rich, Gregg, Grifwold, Havens,
to Holmes, Locke, I.ysmn, Lyon, Macon,
□ral M'Dowell, New, Otis, Reed, Schureman,
:hat W. Smith, Sprague, Sprigg, Staaford,
ted, Sumpter, Tillingbad, A. Trigg, J. Trigg,
less Varnilm, Venable, J. Williams, R. WU
lers, liam;.—43.
;of The qutftion for allowing joo dollars
the a yea<- being negatived, 400 was propo
ibl.'c fed and carried,' 46 to 34.
V.
The queilioti being d'• the bitt'a bi>«g %
erigrofled for a third fading, Mr. Btoqni vert
oOled for the yeas a'-td niy- n-o i :t. lt tKe
was earned 55 to 25, and made the ord.-r wab
nays weae MciTrs. Bier, Blount- 1 this
Bullock, Burgess, W. Claiborne, C!av, to f
Clopton, Coit, Dana, Dent, Gillefpie, Ito c
Gregg* Havens, Lyon, Macoji, New, W. j mei
Smith, Spring, Stanford, Siusptcr, A. J bin
Trigg, J. Trigg, J- WiUiums, R. Wil- J
Hams.—Adjourned till Msjuday. j tur
I he'e
__ 1 " i~«" Gr
CONTINUATION OP I dt'C
Lated Foreign latdhg rkes, tre
• I on
Received tit X';o-Yo;k, by the Branum* J mc
from Greenwkf I
I
THE TWO REPUBLICS. lh>
I cei
POSITIVE CONSIDERATIONS ON THE SUB- I
JECT OF BIEfFRJNCES 3ETWEEX lj t
AMERICA & FRANCE, wi
(From the Paris Rcdafteur.) j at
j art
At a moment when tHir arrival at Fan*9 of# cle
several Negosiators on the part of the Uni- j de
ted States is announced, ft doubtless will be I
very acceptable to our readevstoreceive some I wc
exa&ftateraents upon the fubjeft ofthedif- I cle
ferences which have yifen between Franee j thi
and the United Spates. s |an
The caufeof the Americans against the re- I hai
public wasdefended in thelegiflative Body by | t'jc
Emantirl Pajioret, on the igption of order, j It
upon the 2d Mcffidor-the 3d year. It was jex
pleaded by some Fremrii Publiciftsi or by I by
men calling themselves by this name. But I
a cause of this nature, between two nati- I lirr
ons, can very ill be elucidated by oratorical I po
motionl'or polemical pamphlets. The mat- I tin
ter receives no light from the vehemence of j wi
the tribune or the virulence of inveftive.—.l TJ
Let us lay words out of the question j let I no
us consider things. The difficulty coilfilW thi
in fa£U,'and it is with fa&s which we ought its
to be acquainted. , Ito
A Treaty of Commerce, concluded by Jftl
Mr. Jay, is the source of the differences I all
which we have to investigate. This Treaty I thi
was concluded. at» JLondon on the ift No-I ftr
vcmber 1794 '■ wa'r ratified by the S-nate wi
oftheUmted States, withtheexceptionofone ry
article,upon the 24th June 1795. The fol-1 ad
lowing is in a few words the history of this I th
treaty: I of
It is well known bhat there exist among I ty
the Anglo-American9 two declared parties.: cl<
i the'oue torififts of the merchants, and tin-1
I fortnnately of a majority in the government j thi
1 and Legislature— this' is the Engliih party ;I St
1 the cultj viators of land form the other party, jda
i The mass of the people is more inclined to len
the cause of France, and to the principles I th
whieb dictated,the revolution. The latter Ige
- remember that to France they owe that li- fel
1 berty whieh they prize so much ; the others I E
, recoHedt that to England they owe their ex- I\\
; iftence : ttus_at least Is the motive generally lth
understood to aSuate the twb~parties. | E
1 It is melancholy to discover, in every Jin
1 age and in every country, the eternal con- I E
- test occalioned bythis division of the human Jth
1 mind between the ariftocratical and, demo- IFi
cratical spirit. The States of Greece for-1 e/
e inerly experienced these oscillations, which lar
e were also the torment of the Roman Re- j- w
1 public. The universe feenis abandoned to J w
- fyfterti of these two principles. I ol
e good one-does not always preponderate, and jg;
. the United States Teem to fludtuatehetween Inc
n the two. , palfHi i> i:: ? 5 . ~l«i
• ' It is well known that the French have I G
s contribuud in America to the triumph of Ipi
the better Genius. By a definitive treaty I U
e concluded at Paris in (783, England re-1 yi
r. cognized the independence of America— Isa
e This treaty fixed the limits and some other I r:
■ points. jtl
n Up to the commencement of the present Ith
c war, these obje&s had excited- some differ- I
e ehces. The troops of -the King of Eng- Jtl
s land had not observed the lines of demarca-1 ti
e tion traced by the Treaty. The Englilh I w
1- had carried off the negroes belongingto the 1 p
y United State?. Some American vessels, by Jc;
t. virtue of orders iffoed on the 6th of No- Ifi
1- vember 1793, had been pillaged and taken Itl
n by Esg'iHh vessels, under pretence that they |ti
3, carried on traffic with the French Weft-li> Ie;
y dia iftands upon a different footing from b
- that eftabliihtid before the war, &c. The If(
n last fleet awakened the American ship-own- J 1
in ers : they every <riiere protested againfl this I ti
in proceeding. In thflegiflature cries of war 1 h
is were keafd, should the grievances of Ame- I t
it rice not be redressed. The government pre- \p
■h' ffrred mode of conciliation :—a Nego-1 I
of ciator was sent to London, and the choice t
a fell upon Mr. Jay. I
10 The GJiraniquc asserts, that at London 1;
of Mr. Jay allowed hlmfdf to be circumvented t
>0 by the Ministers, the "Courtiers, the Noble t
en 'Lords. Stunned,befides, by the complaints c
of imaginary grievances which the British r
Minister rung in his ears, he forgot that he t
:i, himfelf was sent to state the_ grievances of
E- his fellow-citizens, and that he came on pur- t
ie, pose to procure redress. He saw ho other t
ps- means of extricatiug timfelf from this la- 1
ra, byrinth but to solicit the concluiion of a 1
or- treaty of peace with England. (
at- .Here begins the return of the bad prin- (
in- ciple into the affairs of Arnerica. This j
'an treaty favors, in a decided manner, the in- ]
|,O. tereftsofEngland, tothe prejudice of France 1
3nd several other powers, such as Holland,
n,t, Prussia and Sweden ; and it openly violates
ne, in federal important articles, the preceding
3a* treaties between France and the United
ad- States.
'vis, We here should observe, that a treaty
ou, x ofcomtrterce, favourable to the Americans,
an, negociated by Franklin, and Lee,
rd, had been concluded between FranceanS the
jg, United Statesj alotig with a treaty of alli-
, r il- ance, upon the 6th of February,'l77B.
These treaties of Paris, compared with that
lars of London ncgociated by Mr. Jay, jjjves
po- rife to a parallel, and to remarks very itri
, king. \Vc ffiall advert to the features of |
' -
i the contrail which were concealed or per : I^7
yerted on Paftoret's motisn of order. At font
the commencement ot the,-.prefent war, it taei
was proposed' to renew tho alliance betw«cu that
France and America ; but America ehiJrd tun;
iS T ay, more, it endeavoured way
,£r if fought and fofieited e*<:i
bonds of friendthip, ff com- flioi,
with thi; Ca- ven
„. * • wul
Freiich laViftied their trea- olit
ilood in favour of the/Ame- oft
ie war with the King of not
In 1794, liih
Imo king a ' molt favorable in t
ime this king was carrying lam
trench a war, at once.the d«r;
1 mod unjifft. At the firlt atte
i Fraucr, at Paris taat
ween the Lm- v
negociated ; the in.terefl; of con
s were thenftijulatcd in coo- que
t power which wa? then, cgn- the
ammon enemy—-at prefejit, bra
where they are conducted, bet
lowledge of France. It is clai
where thofc infidiouearticks ties
h mysterious feerecy—arti- sole
he interests of I rance aie t *
>dden under foot. I 1 1
:s of tUfaffccli-.n, to fay no gtt
dy affeft the Fiench. They Hd
:ed to them the rupture of orj
ich fubfilted between the!£ nut
;ans, although that rupture liih
ritten exprelsly in every *ar-. the
:ty negociated by Mr. Jav. cial
ted that it is there literally hav
; (hall now consider it article tim
tha
lit firft are occupied Tn fixing Pi t
assign round each Englidi boa
s traced on the territory of ing
tes which had nothing to do %o
of independence in I I*,v 1 * ,v
es, the extent of which is of
, must people the interior of hav
rontier with Englidi Colon- '
me articles, there is granted mc
the free navigation of the wit
traverling the United States, luc
me liberty is not granted by wh
:heir own rivers but under re- the
The English admitted, f'v<
uivelent, 10 (liare the territo- th«
f the Mississippi, &c. Wc no!
e fafts seem only to concern of
, but they discover the spirit Er
of favour in which the trea- th<
L- This will be fee* more thi
e,fubfequent articles. thi
linth article stipulates, that thi
England and the United tio
t poffeffirig landb in theboun- art
ritory of either nation, shall co
ivi'eges of the natives of ei
;nd shall not be reputed ftran- in<
>portion ofthe lands thus pof- be
ciiied. Are the American in
nprehended in this clause? tre
>e so, or not, it follows that wi
tes willhave i" thair bnf r-i-. .as
rs ot lands, Engliihmen with- ari
boundaries of their limits, co
1 their ports. Englishmen w]
their (fcjuntry. When' the ve
8, granted to the Americans th
ry demanded, and principally te
rom the duty of efeheat. to vvi
foreigners dying in France th
least a reservation was made nc
fpeeting taking rfteaftires a- or
:fs of imigration. But beve tr
■rved : the children and the
of the numerous fulijc&s of A
nay increase to infinity, and ad
aut all the dominions of the m
this shoot of Royalty. Twenty ca
Englilh were not so much in d<
Erica, and were viewed with tr
iftruft : it than was thought le
i not bs,Jtept too far fiom E
r ports, and their frontiers. m
ith article makes provifio'i for in
nay arifebetween the two con
s. In -this d§fe, the funds at
>e placed by individuals in the gi
and the coffers of individuals, in
afe either sequestrated or con- 1'
lis unjust and impolitie (fays ft
t debts and engagements con- tl
ividuals having confidence in
>uld be ( ,deftroyed or weakened ai
il authority an account of dif- fr
ing between the two nations." fe
graph is may .partly be it
■jphy.—We know very well t<
e occasion, England prafUfed o
theory. We know how (he ai
refpefted the funds of the el
ants, "who were, by the way, d
itcc imc in 11 oiiv» nie last friends of the American o
People. Philosophy apart, how could the p
son latter, who have neither fleets nor armies, It
ted think of laying aside this arm, the only arm p
jble they can employ in cafe they have reafpn to tl
ints complaifi of the conduft ef Englanif: Is it c
tifh not to Ihrrender themselves to England by b
he tying their own hands. tl
sos 4thly. By the twelfth article, u the A- t
jur- mericans bind themselves not to export from t
ther the United States, to 'any port of the world ■ f
la- whatever, during the prcfent war, and for jo
if a two years after, either iholagts, sugar, co- fl
coa, coffee or cotton, whether these ajti- c
irin- cles may be the produce of the French, Eti- (
rhis glifh, or Spanifli ifiands." The cocoa is a a
: in- produce of the Spanish poffeflions ; the U- e
ince nited States themselves produce cotton, i
and, The Americarls are afterwards prohibited j
ates from trading to the Britilli eftablifnments in t
ling vessels of a larger burthen than 70 tons,
lited But how are the Americans to transport in .
such vessels, either their for building, 1
eaty or ether cumbrous pr intci* which are con
•ans, veyed from thoir territory I If, the preCed- 1
:.ee, ing articles are to be afcribrd to a conniv
! the ance and aprediletlion for England, ought
alii- we not to regard the Americans as bowiag
B. the neck to the yoke of that jiation ? Wc!
that ought, besides, to consider, which is the
fl'ves one of all the powers against which this ar
ilri- tide is exelufively direded. By the ninth
:s of article of the treaty of ahiatree concluded in
iyyS between America and France ,K
former power guaranteed to hs deliye
their American polfrffions. It is well t
, that hitherto tijc United States have m.f*
! tiinatelV not bee i able to fulfill i n a d ■
! way shis article of their treaty . p rnn §' ; ;S
! e*cnfed them ; but is tf,f 3 a rea f oq M
- should a A ifl'a way 1 diametrically the
- viife ? N'o'.r, do not their new arrsi.,, re *
with the liriti?i idantli tend at onceto"T'
- cilitate their fupplicj, and to render"] r"
-of the French i flan da more diffi cu I t >
f not the American vessels supply t h c ' £ |
- lifo with the means to maintain themfel!s"
i in the ufurpition of Martinique ? By"tl"
r fame twelfth article it is alio provided, th C
p during the present war, and for two'vj}
t after, the question, whetW, between th**
t Englifli and Amerisans, the neutrality sB
- vtfl'els (hall a Pi sly to the merchandize th c °v
f contain ? left undecided. Th
- question has been affirmatively decided
- the different treaties between America and
,* France, between France and Holland, a„d
, between P raffia and Sweden. The ab'ov
s clause is not precisely an infuadion of the!-
s treaties since it does not depend on America
- solely, properly speaking, to'biad the En?,
e lilh to do what they may not wish to 4
It is not less evident that this article is alto"
0 gether to the pirjudice of jhe French ; f or "
y it does not ltfs result from this compli a ' lcv
if or perhaps from this concert with the ent
a mlekof the French republic, that the Ens
e lifh may legally plunder (he merchandize of
the French in American vessels, more efn e .
. daily the corn which the Americans m ay
y have been pleased to felhto the French at a
e time of scarcity and embarraflmerit, and
that neither, the French, the Dutch, the
g Pi ufliajis, nor the 1 Swedes, could seize ou
h board the fame veflTcb jnerchandize belong,
if ing to the Englifli—lt would have betn
0 %iore honorable in the American senate to
. have disavowed the treaty, on the ground
Is of* this article alone, which it could not
if have been advantageous for them to adopt,
i- sthly. £y the thirteenth article, the A.
d mcricans are allowed to carry on a trade
e with the Erigliftreftablifhments in the East
?, Indies ; but, among other reftriftions, the
y whole of the merchandize brought from
?- those eftablrlhments mud be landed exclu
1, fively in the ports of the 'United States
3- themselves, thus then, the Americans can
c not V arr y to* Canton, or to any other part
•n of the globe, what they may (hip in the
it English Asiatic colonies. It .is thus that
a- tjiey deflroy, by their example, as much as
re they can, the freedom of navigation. To
these advantages they facrificed at once both
at their engagements aud their earlier connec
d tions.—The 14th, 15th, 16th and 17th
:i-' iarticles, contain the regulations of their
11 commerce, and of their new frienilfhip.
:i- 6thly. The 18th paragraph, enumerat
n- irig the merchandizes which (hall in future *
if. be confid'-'red as contraband, comprehends
»n in this lift the efTential articles which, in the
e? treaty Willi the French, as well as those
at with the powers above named, were confid
a*. —Tligfcj uttltJei
h- are—wood for (hip-building, pitch and tar,
Is, copper in plates, flax, cordage, and finally,
en whatever is employed in the>conftni£tion of
he vessels. Thus, then, the Americans tho't
ns that they were enabled, according to the
ly terms of the treaty they have entered into
to with France, to supply all tsetse articles in
ce the Engh'ft mariiYe, with which they csn •
de no longer furnilh France, Holland, Prussia
a- or Sweden, according to the terms of the
ve treaty negociated by Mr. Jay.
he The 21 ft article Hates, that " the
of Americans can accept no comiaiifficrn, nor
ud a& hoOilely againfl England tithei in the ar
he mies or fleets of the and reciproc
ity cally." Mr.-Jay wonl4-perhaps have ren
in dered a more honorable fervicc to his coun
;th try, and to humanity, if he could have fal
':st len on an efficacious of preventing
jm England, by the means of preffijjg ef fea
roen, from forcing American Tailors to serve
for in her fh?fcts.
in- Bthly, and finally. The 34th and 25th
ids articles'are thole which contain the raoft
he grievous clauses, • tht stipulations which are
Js, in moll dired violation of the treaty of
>n- 1778. It will be neceffarv, in the firii in
lys stance, to read- the text of the article of
)n- this said treaty :
in "It (hall be lawful to the (hips of war
led and privateers of either power, to convcv
!if- freely, wherever they (hall choose, the vef
s." I fels and merchandize taken from the ene
bs my, without being obliged to psy any duty
'ell to the officers of the admiralty, or to any
fed other judge, whenever they fliall arrive at
(he and enter ttie ports of either of these pov. -
the ers. Prizes of this defctiption canuot be
ay, detained or seized ; the infpe«3ors or other
~a» ofSeei'3 of these ports cannot infpeft
the prizes, or enter into any scrutiny as to their
ies, legality ; but they,-tf>e of war or
irm privateers, may fail at all times, and Carry
Ito their prize's to the places named in their
3 it commifTion", which tlv'i commanded (hall a
by he obliged to produce. On the contrary,
there (ball not b-: given in their poKts, ei-
A- their refnge or (belter to thef», whr.cver
*om ; they may be, who lhall have made captures
>rld from the iubjcfls or government oi either
for of' the contrailing parties Tf, howaver, it
co- (iiould happen that any such vefTHs (hould
u-ti- come into their ports, forctd thither by
Eti- ttrefs of weather or the Dangers of the sea,
is a ali proper means (ball be vigorously employ-'
U- ed to oblige them to depart from thence,
ton. and to withdraw iheJlifdlves speedily as
ited poffib!e." (oeventrc nth article of the trea
ts in ty cf Paris of 1778.)!
ans. Ih,is la it clause was evidently, between
t in America and France, a fort of privilege,
ing, by which every other nation was excluded,
cori- It was, indeed, the only diftlnguiihing fea
ced- ture of the trecty wimli denoted the g<u>d
I'niv- will us the Americnur: towards the French,
ight Why, and how did the two nrstiens then a
viag vail themselves of this exefufne pi-ivilere ?
We It was, gs Idisbeen said, at a time when A
the rrrerica was resolved to make constantly a
s ar- cor.virori catiie with the Trench, and con
linth lidered tliK the Englifli could art be kept
d if, j at too great a diilance from I.or coaft.—hmay 4.,0 ».-rf.-iv.d,ahat this ifticle mufti
iave greatly cmbr.rrafFed the American ara- }
.lUador. Lord Grenviilc required that
-t.ng.and should be treated as the most favor- •
ed nation : a little finefle got the betyr of i
this embarrassment. The above article, ac- j
cordiHgly, M the treaty of 1778, wis co- !
Pfcd, nearly word for word, in the treaty!
or 1794. thus, on the' one hand, the 1
French are constantly the possessors of this •
exc[ufrje privilege, the etclufivt pofTelfion of
which England acquires. We cannot fail
to admire this fubllety! * {
Mr. Jay, apparently apprehenfire of the j
clamours whiclj would naturally be excited |
by so formal an irifra&ion of the Treaty of
Paris, took care to introduce into that of
London a reftridtion, which it would not
be amiss to quote :
" Nothing hCe contained shall be either,
interpreted, or shall operate in a manner
contrary to public Treaties, ancient or ex
iting, with other sovereigns or States.
And the two contrasting Parties agree, that
in future there shall not be formed, by ei
ther of them, any Treaty which shall not be I
compatible with'the present article." j
Can a more scandalous and wretched f
quibble be fgund any where ?■' Is y not this S 1
modification, v.ij.h which however," the A
mericans appeared to be fatisfied, absurd in 1
the extreme? How can such a clause be re- ;
conciled with the two other articles? If •
the English, coming with a French prize I
into ah American port, are -received in that <
port, the Treaty of 1778 is infringed; if '
.# they are not received, the treaty of 1704. is 1
infringed.
The stipulations contained in the articles <
which have bees prccedingly analifed, might 1
at leail, notiiave depended altogether on the ,
will and aft of the United States, but this |
/ onc is their fide, a formal, free and vol- c
untaryconceflion —Whatever fubtletiesmay 1
be employed to cover this want of good faith 1
it is not lefe certain, having fub
fdnbed thfc article of the firft treaty, the A- r
mcricans could not, without a palpable vio- v
lation of it, fufclcribe the second. 1«
From these fafts, it appears to be a mat- n
ter of surprise that a Legislator of France *
should enter into a former defence of the - j
treaty of 1794. It is essential that these na- w
tions, reduced to fimplc terms, should.be l<
eftabhihed, to the end that the conduft
which the French government ought to ob "
serve at this time toward the American ne
gociators should be appreciated.
0 Sober 10.
x J
LONDON, November -4;
NEGOCIATION AT LISLE.
Official Documents laid hfort Parliament.
'No. J. official-note from Lord Grenville. dat. p
ed Veftminfler, June 1, 1797, to the French Mini!-
ter for foreign affair., expressive of the wifhej of his
government to " enter without delay, and in such
manner m (ball be judged the meft expedient, upon
the difcuflton of the views and pretenfiona of each
psrty, for the regulation of the preliminaries of a
peace, which may be definitively arranged at a future fr
coxigrefs." 6 jj
r , N °- 2 - Official note, dated Paris, June 4 , from ,u
Charles Delacroix,
fweMothe«W«, Rating, t||lt the Executive Direfto- cc
ry will'« receive with eagerness, the overtures which 3c
Ihall be made to it by the court of England j desiring, M
however, that inltead of a congress, they should pro- n
ceed to '*r.ei;ociate for a definitive treaty."
No. 3, From lord Grenville, June 8, in reply, lai
purporting, that the Brutfh L.ovcrnincnr. ever aiixi- te
ous to contribute to the re-tflablifhmcnt of a perma- -/i
ner.t peace, will notj delay ts feed to Paris, or such
other place upon the continent as mav be< agreed up
on, a minifler, to treat with one appointed by the 1
Directory. The neceflfary paffportt' are required or «.f|
the French minifler. *
No. 4. From citizen Delacroix, June 11, trans- .
mitting the paffpprts required above, and nominating
the commune of Lille as the ptae'eof meeting for the tei
refpeftive plenipotentiaries
No. 6 . A blank paiTport, fijned bv Delacroix and
T. Cuiradet. In
No. 6. A note from the minifler Grenville, Tune fei
1.7, acknowledging the recciptof the Fjeneb pafiWt'; e ri
but objecting to its inefficiency, onaccdunt of i's dif- ,•
fering in form liom those delivered on lormer linnlar
cccafions. Lisle being agreed uprjn as the feat of rie
gociation, it is understood that the King's ininitler ioi
•' ihall have liberty to difpat* hiseouiiers di eftly n a
frsm Lisle to Dover, through Calais, &c " It alio
Dates, on the fuljeft of negociation, that the powers
of the English mimfter will authorise him to conclude thi
«' any articles or treaties, whether preliminary cr.de- od
hr.i'ive but lhat the formation ot a separate treaty ,
would be incompatible with the regard which the
King fas for the imereft ot his allies. It eoncludes
by requelting a pafTport drawn up intheufual manner, the
and by inlormingthe French minifler that His Maief- nP .
ty haa appointed Lord Malmefbury his representative P
on tin* important occasion. repair to Lisle
» s soon a » = day Ihould be agreed upon for the pleni- P
pottntiaricito meet. con
No. 7. From the minifler for foreign affc.irs, June
zc, in reply, announcing the expedition of the Di ° ne
rectory, that the refpeftive plenipotentiaries wilt be- ™er
gin immcriiately to treat of a definitive treaty ; ioclu- „„ .
di ig, on the partof his Britanniomajefly, such fliru
lations ?.s he fhal! think proper Tor h"er Mofl. Faithful ,nd
Makiiy; and on the paitof France, what may be trv
oeetned t» the tote,ell of his Catholic Mjieily, and , .
Batavtan republic The Direflory accent/ Lord Un '
Maimrfbury, tuongh another choice would'have ap. and
peared more auspicious. After requiting that all cou- j
r.er s f«,r the L.ighm court (h,H be conveyed by Freneh
packet-boats, itisadded that all packet-boats bring- P a,il
ir.g over .ouriers, &c. shall make no unnrccffary lU V the
in their ports, and that these couriers Ihall be difpatch'. , !
cd afciC.dom a s poflible, their frequency being one 1
chuf cause of the lupture of the former pe- that
goc'at'jin It concludes with remaiking that' to ji
another passport for Lord Malmefbury's fuife wo U rd
be have
French Lord 26, to-the men:
French minifler, acquiescing 1,, the regulation of dif- ,
patches enjoined by the latter, and informing that on ° t!
tbe 301b of .the present month (June) Lord Malmes- (hall
bury would depart for Lisle.
No. 5. From the French minifler to Lord Grenville Ar
June ap, announcing ihat the French plenipotentiaries auan
were already alibied a- Lisle ; and that every pre- T
lor , l PC edy OJuirnun,cation Sttwcer the
made "" " h'»/:ourt had onthtirpait been g OTCI
' , n°' A r dir P alch frmn ' "rdJMalmefbu.v, dated ' CmC
J.ifle, Julv 6, lnfotnnnu thai he hid bid a conference J anto
with the French reprclent'aiives, and exchanged jx>«- and ;
No. 11. The aopointment by the Direftory, of c -
tizens Letouintur, Plev lie )e Pellay, and Maret, to
negotiate a definite treaty with Lord'Malmclbury, -p
and autf*>rtjißg citizen Coiehinto assist at their con
rcTcncs. IvCV
is. liflraas of a dispatch from £ord Malmes- and ;
G,envil,e '
1 the honor inmj I.H, by Eror-kii of rhe 6th r
rnlt. \.o inform your lordfhipof my arrival her.-, of
thefiianner in r?hich I h iiT been received, snd ef e3ttr
my having, in the usual iorm, exclianveJ my full of a
•> P°w er »»'t h »he French "plenipotentiaiies. blilli
I opened this fecr nd conference with tlnFtewh 0 ",1 !
P-.potent,ar,e, : by faying, that 1 myMt bttfirT P o^
L their full pavers, which ed ar
appearec to be ctaifcrisaW: to tliofe ufualiy g ; veij reft f
%
«
mist • r so - r / n<J ■
am- j co ma'lhe cot-fid rej a. IV;;~cient tor the pal
that ; tKp^d th •• 'h't hoT/erer, ha
vorv • S'rv'",! , a m -' Tcr S" r « my court, an
■ nf my ot c^>m "qic«in e an
of | objeiSions or remarks whkh I c-.ighf receive b
ac- > ' I j <:,urn ° f ™y meflenge.-, relative to thsnu
co- ! .1 ' ,OBrn e»r, towltom, as af th
■aty : C h °?™ r.p ied, thatthe
the f,d r .d .h P 7 C tf y fier9; th?t the ? r ™n
• < -d thi 1 U.l pnwe-rs 1 in, u in du
tnis form, and fufficirot ; bn: that they r.'fo refervet
of to themselves the sam; night, in regard to inftruc
f ail " Pl§ , Kceivc from the direSory o,
j this I had chimed 111 rigar.d to my c-urt
, 10 this of comfc 1 uiTented.
the j On Saturday, the Bth i H (lant, \ gave in ths
!ted precifely a s I j ia6 i received it from j3*r brd
r- of ™'P : * c opy of which (Nd. 13) a= it if t-iEflatci
t of Frencll > 1 think it my duty to incVtf t \
not ,h',, n r the Frcr ' dl P ! «»>P»t«-fikrwi pfopofec
tlIT, c would be g veil -rlwa/to tal.e ?h(
fropirfabl had made, ii.toetn.bdtratioii, and fcc-r
ler, t'edof me, merely for the. fake ef accuracy, ane
ner to help their mcrhcry, that I woaljl be pood e
ex- ncu S" either ta let M. Co'chen yut down on ba
tes ?' Lr ' J °" fc u «s tncf'» a note containing the
h t r K fiTi j Whici I ' win ' fd the articles left in blanls
hat to be filled up. ( rfadily acquitfeed in'the Jatt-r
f" w . lU '- mt , d ' ILe, y ** m r return sent then
:be ] WJclofed note (No./14.)
" enin ? l received the inclefed aote
led ; , V 5 rrc " ch plenipotentiaries, and
ins " W€nt tethe p"p^' d
mr°on si V h l. F I^ ch rt«»jpotcntj»ri«.' informed
10 and the Mo" JC e °[ - the P r °j" a 1 hid Si™ them,
re- " ot< w,th which I had accompanied it, that
-If " ,ain poiats 8,1 which thfir
izc had not cnib!e thc, » to answer, they
k ! r u avins: glven thera " ver r furious .men -
bat ' ' them,'with such obferLiora as thev
' f S J "V y £ ° make #n them > t0 the ai "
I- IS - n r w J' . h that 'he moment they received an
thar in k W communicate it te me. }But
les of L nWln While ' Dot 10 prpgrefs
5 ° f he . "gotiaticn, tiiey wiftid that fe
-1 whVh P°' nt i " hkh he termed* inful.ted, but
he he
his ,S' inseparably .eonn.Aed with the general
ol- If in ° m ' ght be difcuired got rid
' '. hadn ° objection, and that It wi,
a - )T' th
Gn ] r ">' not "pressing any difapprobatior,
|b- • . hli n,ofie 0 proceeding, one of the Freneh
A.- r^K ,pot r n l' anes bcgan> fH >' in g. 'hat in the pre
• amb - c °f the treaty, the title of « king of Franee"
was used ; that this title they contended could no
longer be in fifled on ; the abolition of it was in a
it- " ÜBr fr essential to the full acknowledgment of the
ce rtncn republW; and tbat it was merely titular as
he ■ 1" r* r , d^ ,ed to h " but quite otherwise in
the sense in which it applied ta them, he hoped it
- would not be considered a» an important concefc
be ion. (To be continued. )
a
b . t~
%ljt <sasette»
PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVENING, JANUARY J.
f' Copy of a letter to the Editor, dated " Sea
is Shore, near Indian River, State of Del
:h aware; January i, 1798."
' " Sir,
a " The ship Inclination, capt. G. Kafter,
re from Bremen bound to Baltimore, is loft on
Hog Island, near the capes of Virginia ;
?- lhe r*?ple all fns cJ n?d ot her cargo,
consisting of Claret in boxes,lCJir, Linen,
ih See. valued at 100,000 dollars, when (he left
K> Bremen on the 20th of Oftober last ; /he
{truck in the night of the 26th of December
A Britifti armed /hip called' the Hun
|- ter, was loft the fame night, on the fame
1 island, no cargo—seven hands perilhed."
v «•
ie -v. r rom every appearence thereisthe strong-
A eft reason to expeft, that unless
S . tates surrender their independence, and
lg right of felf government, the present fyf
e tem of lawlefa depredation on our rights
d and commerce will be continued by France.
In this cafe, such an union and'harmony of
e sentiment among the people and the gov
o eminent of the United States, may be an
; ticipated, as will fully baffle the defigtis of
all our enemies. However various the opin
r ions of different persons iriSy be (and in a
/ state of freedom they will-vary) relative to
s the administration of our government, on
e this one point, there will Ve found but one
opinion among the real friends xif our c«un
j n T' That-we -will not, as a people, receive the
s law from any foreign power under, heaven. See
, the Venetians, transferred and fold like the
■ peasants of Russia !
ABOUT two years ago, a gentleman, travelling in
company with a Frenchman, thejatter said there was
one obfrrvation he had made,—" That the Govern
ment of this country was onc thing, and the People 1
another." This opinion has been propagated abroad, 1
and particularly in France, with indefa-igable induf. ]
try, by dftmeflic enemies to the Conllitution of the ]
United States, with whom it originated. This vile |
and degrading calumny has given rife to all the insults '
and robberies of which wc have too long been th e J
patient and unrerffting viaims. Let the article f>om ,
the Reda&eur, which hasjufl appeared, be read with 1
the lealt attention, and it wiil convince every o«c £
that the Aurora, the Chronicle,'the Argus, the letter J
to Mazzei—" Features of Jay's Treaty,"' &c. <fcc. r
have furnifhed the princigal ideas (I will not fay argu- (
ments] in this anonymous manifefto. How llrikingly
do these fails verify-an old faying, " a man'.i foes
shall be those of his own household" I n
Another jdea—What mi fcrable pretexts to pick a
quarrel upon, With the United States! Nothjng that *
Frame has fuffered or can fuffer from the people o a
goversmcnt of this country, forms the balls of tlieit »
remouarancts; but tbe opinions of a disappointed:
junto, whose reprefentstions have been proved filfe
and g!ound:er« by ibe tranfaQions aa d eleftious of the
peiiyle, for eight ye3ra past. '>
f,
Died, in the morniug of the 3d inft. the }.»
ev. Jacob Duche. He was a good man, J el
aniiagoodchr jiian-, exemplary in his morals, :
mild and in his dispositions, and
of un.verfal benevolence. While disease and t
C f trei rf the latter years c <i
ot a life, in it* comijleiicenient uoufually 01
bnlhaot, they did not disturb that cheerful
nefs, resignation and equanimity, founded f' !
on ( l , ' e of unaffected religion, which he fd
polleficd in an uncommon degree.—" Bless °f
cd are tbey who die in the Lord, for they a
reft from their labours." • t
* »■
'. i>> •'* "" '."4' - * v , -
/ . ■ o '• '
-• f F- jr the Gaielte of tie United SlxtU. '
|C P ar_ o
r, had iVEr tECT!ON« ON MoNßttE's
t, and No. IV.
igsny It appears that en tfee 3 d of September, he i
ive fc r prefcat*! to !-e* of.public fcfetv XJ. :
u Wate paper, in xrtich he rtqncßi ~,V m em |
sf the or the claims of our euiiens fr.r fvppTits,' com- I
tttiey pemation for the erobirgwat IWdeax, and fcr i
nT" u i nj<i ' :S " <> " r i" cor.foqjience of j
"rved "-.tfcepartofFia.ie, from the
fcrwd lnd ~ artfdfk (>f |h ;y ft
rv on ,\ e " IV icmuit, flu-wing It
dun ' to repeal,lie ,1c r«, hut
coneludewitft declaring he is npj inftrniVed'tO
jiW C '"T lp f uoi orrtqv-ft-tl.e repeal <>f the decree
lord- Vl , n * :n E a departure from ihofe articles. His
Hated X°l l r iV my duty »rf„bft.-»e to. yon
1 2 "] u:!; ie"" no ir.ilrwftion to complain of
pofrd f a ft the decree SWthprizine a
.e the tUr i/ r "™ '** Mth Vticlis of the
1 hc S- !? e r! y and cam«neice ;on the contra
, and T Y* -1 <■«*'■> knwj), that if ipon cuf deration, after ,
,ode- experiment mad'e, you fkould be of opinion
p;l . | that JSproJixer anyJolid bet,fit'to the republic, \
■ tfe = j Amerlc °i government, end my countrymen ,
blank j"> gf/rtl, will not or,!y bear toe departure with ,
latter | pattcnie, but tviib fil-a/ure'" -(page 34.) '
them On the r6th Oflnberheprefented inotfcernote, ,
in which heconeifely mentions the fame fubiecl, ,
•iote three lubjecls, and of th* contravention of the 1
, *»d treaty he merely fays, J* Nor (hall I add aav f
■ 'vi- v '' ,,l gT upon the thircj point tochanee the prin
ted cl P !e U P S " I relied it"-(p Iy e/, ( ). 'n lis \
■hem P ne; P' c ' heen declared to be, th?t it was .
that '"tSreft of France to repeal tfce decree and »,
their ■" rothr treaty > !Qt if the c»rtimi(tee f
they r ,gI ? o'herwife, the United State. wOntd [,
tten- F !eifure and vexjflionJ e
they j ne c ''' zens fliould fuffer in their commei ce un- c
le di- ~ 4 .operation of the decree. fl
•d an . vT* , nnrof > ( »n t'»e 7th November, before r
* But w , , ,:rr,c ' ie received Secretary Ran- ,
grefs Ql : s letter of the jnh July, wrote to the Se- ..
fe- C,r X a r? 89 IO ' ov ' s : " J felt extremely embar- n
but r^* . 10w touch again their infriagenitflt ©f 0
vere, the of commerce} whether to call mi 0
oeral tnfm 'p execute it, or lea»e the quefiion on the
t rid ground 01 which I bad at jirfl , laud it. You e
wai deli red tne in your last to cunteft with them „
meet the principle • but yet this did not amount to an
ifion utjlrw'tiyvy nor ~enje>i convey ytur idea that it
eneh ivodd be cd-vtfertble to demand of them the ex- ,1
pre- ecution of thafe articles. Upon full confidera
"ec tiori, therefore, I concluded that it was the „
> no moii iafe and fuund policy to leave this po nt j.
>» • Where it wa s ttfore, and in.which 1 was the „
t the more confirmed by so me circumJbnces that _
■ ," s were afterwards-difcJofed
•.i\t T hc d ,*X aft# T last communication was *'
ce ss. P rc "i c ' ' received a letter from the commit
tee, sfiuring ijje that the fubjea e'nOToffed their u
entire attention, and that an answer iXoald be ji
m invertl a» soon as poffiWe ; and a few days after it
this, 1 was favored with another, inviting me to tf
a conference at ti the next day. I attended h
and found only the three members of the diplo- tf
* I 1 3*? ranc ' l the committee present, Merlin
de Deuay, Thuriot and Treiluard. Merlin v..
coinmenctd by ebferving tlat I had advised and
pre fled them to execute the 13d and *4th arti- I '
cles of the treaty 6f amity and commerce : that ! ,
Sea ' 'O' persuaded their compliance mould be
V I "Jr/u' to tu, but very detrimental to them; it
would hkewife be diftrt/Tin- for Frenchmen to
lee llntife goods prote<fted % our flag, whilst it te
gave no protection to theirs; and alter making re
tet", co 'nment?» he finally came to this point— i cc
.on . Uo yon infill upon ourexecuting the treaty I" ja.
■ ' replied, / had nothing tu<w to add to <what /
> Heme. Treilhird fcem- i
I' rprifcf ! at the reply, and exprefled a wilh ~
en, that I would declare myfelf frankly on the sub- tf;
lett ject. I told him I was furpriftd at his remark, de
/he "nee I had not declared myfelf frankly but libe- | tu
ber ra 7* e then pafled fr©m the point of de- : i nl
an- raa "® t0 a mo'e general discussion of the policy i
mg in Frafiee to execute the treaty, and in which I! e *
urged, th.it if fh c considered her own interest f
<' T y u OUBIU not to hesitate, finer it give |«x
her the command of neutral-bottoms, and u'ndtr ,
lg- the proteihon of their own flag to fupplv her t
ed wants, with other considerations which bid been !
nd prcflcd in my notes that were before p,
them. I was however brought back twice a- :
gain to theqneftion, " do v6ii irifift upon o- '.k- I
msnd it ? i found that a p.,Ct, V e and formsl i
-e. declaration on this point was the sole ob>& of ha
of, t e interview; and as I perceive! that some- tw
, v . thing was intended to be fcu::ded on it, either 1 „„
in . now or hereafter, if given in the affii mative, I '
of was the more res ,!«d to avoid it and :o adhere'
. n _ to the ground J had already t ikerf. 1 therefore 1 P r '
repeatefl my declaration, and in the mofl exhlh ii P r «
.a terms, that /«*, not infixed by the \refiden, !«f
to to tn/tS on ,t, „or d,d Unf ji on J j the
on compliance wouhl certainly be Aghly beneficial I tw
ne to my country, but that in my observations i h.'d
n . conlideted the proposition merely ia relation to
'heffar' arc '> a nd wa,ed them to do the {ame, since
ee ir 8 f ", fied th,lt the true interest of France tov
diaated the mejfure They all expreflid an to
a.taihmeiit tons ; spoke much ef the difficulty of
0 . e !' fitwation, and t)f the peculiar delicacy in
adopting m the preftnt state of the public mind, r
in ar. 7 meal lire which might be cor.itrtied as even
ts ' ua y * vorin g 1-Hgland, and thus the coiifer
ence ended.
T K ln Tti"? 0n tHc sub ever since, I have
sle d °ubtful whether the folicita-Je (hewn to "
rd, draw f: ora me a decisive answer t® the quef- ffa
if. I 0n ' whether I insisted or demanded of t\em L,
o execute the articles of the treaty," was mere- fj
r as the basis of their own a* Com- frO J
lie plymgwithitandajuaifitationfor themfclves nefl
Its to to doing, or «s a ground to call on us Jiereaf
h f Cr J" prolccutiin of the war against Eng- at'
e land to fulfil the guarantee. I was at the mo-' G's
ment oi »be difcuirion m the committee of the
th later opinion ; but I mart Confefs, upon a more
Bc getteralview ot all circumttanccs that have pas- >
cr led under my observation since my arrival, that , ;
lam at prefetat inclined to bl of the former. J has
rather think as the.'e is auoppofition to the mea- 1
a- sure, and it would commence an important this
ly „ a ' B f c . lll the;r fyte*. «nd might also be con- Ke<
=s flrued into a partiality for England, (a nation
by no means 111 favor here) ftiat a dread of de
nunciation in the courfe-ot events fnggefted it P .°°
a ßc '' 1 perfect I y latisfied it " ca
<would betmpol:lic to demand it, f,nee the refifal Nar
a - -j-ould weaken the conned ion between the two chu
> countries, and the comp/ian'c upotl that motive ry 1
might perhrtps not only produce the fame esseS, M ov
1, ,lkew 'f e excite a/lifpefitian to press us on of
ther points, upon pubich it were better to avoid
e any discussion." { pa-e 58)
c ibis letter appeareWme to contain too im-
port nut information to be abridged, and there- n y>
fOff it has been so largely quoted. It not only 30tf
I proves that Mr. Monroe perfi.ted ,n not de- nocl
: | minding an execution of the ajd and 24th arti- l o ft :
, j cles, but that he did worse : he agreed v.irh ijj
: the committee of public fafety that those arti
j elesmiyht bed:fiegarded on thepirt of Erance- Was
Moreover, it furnifries eonclufivv proof that tbe
() lleiti oi commercial warfare at this dav carri- srtic
i ed on by the French republic, originated from an 7 fib
r opinion, that the people of the States 2 »a
. would bear w,th patiente, and even with plea- f 9 ;u
; fure r whatever 1- fiVs it fcotild occasion, prorid- r
. ed the good of France fliculd be promoted : an
opinion that the minifler <sf the United States, car S'
or his mere motion and endeavoured
to imprels o;i the mind of France. Ihaveheard men
t fluently .'aid that the unjust and injurious the 1
• ..
( meafufes of the F-ench republic towards onr
„ j commerce, were recommended, werjt advised,
j were u-duved J>y <*Ajiit« cbaraflera vrfco con:-
• Vi. S a '" l ,l ' ad ,},e French fr.aion in the United
' " e : States-] had doubted this, but since Ihavere?.d
if* j l* '' c " er ' <!oubt remains. In vain iljjil Mr.'.
m;n < j or his co-adjutors, endeavour to ptr
if | r^ie ' ntc part .of the Comrr. unity,
1 r j that the injuries w daily feci from the hand of
-1" | P'Octtd-entirely frnro tjieir d fatis.'ac
, « ( tionon account >f the Bririfli treaty. 1 a- it
-proeeeri, frot •ki opinion which has,bt c ;i ir.cul- .
n p cated with induitry, that the great body of thc
•»"t American people a.e f u Mindly, xtached to the
" !0 French republic, that tUey wiii not complain ot
eree France csn do t» them, and th t
,s lh «« J"ye t6 repubirestiifis vt)| i.tver permit
yrxi th'm to nit; t ariy tnfafiites that Frir.re -miy •,
M ot - choose to rake to promote its welfare. In fli
'®. 1 to.a belief of the dirtrflory (as Mr. Monroe cx- !
le P' tffes itj that if upon conlideration alter espe- '
|tr a * nmcnr made, the French ftould be of opinion, :
tsat a departure of the treaty would produce any '
!/" i°"d beneft to the republic, tht American govern- 1
' »i-»t audthepeople in g-nera\ would not only ;
"uith f " ar ' h " t, f ar ' ure patience, but with plea- (
I cannot quit this fubjef), without a short re
i' vlew °l Monroe s cr'nducff, as prelented by
e «> the documents that have been citecL It appears r
t,lc he had originally, of his own actxird, in his
" y written communication, informed the com- - r
mfftee of public fafety, that he was not mftruil- t
»"» s ed to complain of their dtpaiture from the trea- j
A ' a » ty, and if they found it their interest to continue
J to do so, his country would bear it with plea- c
fin e. He repeated the fame idea in another fo
° 'emn communication afterwards, at a conter
onS ence with the members charged with diplomatic
un " concerns, he is informed " thot they were per- h
fuaded their compliance would be ufeful to thf t
ore United States, but very detrimental 'to them ; r
an " and
se " curing the treaty, to ahich he replied, he had.
ial - nothing new tp add to what he had already said r
6 on that head. I his was an explicit conceilian* U
< " 1 nnhispart, so far . s lie could concede, tiu:t the b
r tr " tv ,B ccrtaln need not be rt -ard- t
ed« It was more lit was a compift or ?gree- „
c ' n meat bet weed T:im aad the committee, that those
«" articles migTit be disregarded. When lie bad £
' condeii.cnded to inform the committee, that if a
ra- 'jP' rture from the treaty, on experiment, turn- ri
rhf tG a " tto, ' lc sirantage of the republic, it would S
not be complained rf, but borne with pieafure m
fhp j y the
"| formcai him " «l>f y were persuaded their ccm
lal pliaace \Wwld be detrimental to France," to
which he replied that h< had nothing mc rt te *'
,; t ! , " feemt tome that 1 c »«traa, complete in 1
all its paxts, \v&« formally made ; 'a contrail,
be J , T °Y cvtr ' Dot aJmi 'ted te be binding on the U
United States, beeaufe there is no evidence that tl
to powers commit- tc
ed if t0 Monroe; but on the contrary, to
, have bfjen not only -unauthorised, but corttrary -
j®" to the part which he was inftrufted to aA rela
" tive to this fubjeA. I (hould not be furpriled
1 j however, if Franee ihould take it as a basis for
juftifying thc fpefiations and injuries done to oar
lt : comrae rce ; for it furnidies a better excuse than
I fuppafed txifhrd. SCIPIO. 1
to There is a letter in town from Paris da
it ted Oa. 26, from a very intelligent so- «r C
ng j reigner, to a merchant in this city, which no
sj,sj, | contains the following information in fub
-1 j stance—That our commiflioners could not
n _ have arrived at a more inaufpicions period
ilh —that the direftory mean to treat all neu
b- tral flags alike, disregard all- that they are r<
k, determined that all American veflels defti
«- j tute of the role d'equipage, (hall be abfo- [T
lntcly condemned—and that they had taken
; exceptions at the speech of the President of Iffi
the United States at the opening of the late
/e I extraordinary fcfli»n of congress.
tr, _
•M FRENCH LIBERTY. M
« Erom the French newspaper called Du Vl
e . | translation.
al ! tribunal of the department of Gard, 'He
us has condemned one Anthony Sonier,. to be ««|
;- two yeai's in chains, and tq be expofedas a
f '' public fpeSscle, for having hawked about, 1
_ e j ahd read to three women in a tavern, the
r ! prott lint ion of Catr.ille Jordan against the
; proceedings of the 18th Fruftidor, [4th I
,t 1 of September last, when two members of
?r ; the DireSwry, and so ijiany members of the au f
! two Councils were proscribed.] gj
e MARRIED—on Friday,-at German
e town, Mr. John Richards of this City,
n to the amiable Miss Rachel Hfnry, last
y of Keht County, Delaware State. \J
n
I to t
' G AZETT E' M ARINE LI ST. An
. To
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA. £° r
0 'file (hip Philadelphia, BlifsfAm Bristol or*!
(failed 27th Oftober) (hip Harmony, Price r " f F
™ from Cadiz, and fchr. Harmony, Coffin,
_ from Eofton, lay under Cape Mav on Wed- •"
s nefday last. '
The ship Recovery, Rape, has arrived the
- at ' Salem from Calcutta ; from the time the h « »'
- Ganges of this Rort failed I;th of May to ed b
- the 15th August; 12 American vefttls had '"r g
■ left Calcutta. *j!*
t The brig Delaware, Dunphy, from here men
[ nas arrived 3t the Mole. is b 3
The fliip Bacchus, George, of and from rcfi^
: this port ta Lundon—The (hip Mercury,
Keown of this port, from Norfolk to Bre- z~
m«n, and fliip Eunjce, Seal, from Liver
pool to this port, with fcveral other Ame
ricans are condemned veflels and cargoes at
' Nantz. Capt. George, of the /hip Bac- A
chus, came home passenger in the brig Ma- th,s
ry Ann, arrived at New-York, left Nantz decU
November 8. then,
_ the I
BAL T/MO RE January 3. .
We are informed that the schooner Fan- Oft)
ny, captain Sullivan, was cast away on the 7.
30th ult. at night, off the mouth of Bran
nock bay, and that the hands, who were
lolt in the ice, 'were found fpme days aftur
and buned. On the «d of die fame month,
was found a punt, %pofcd to belong to S
said schooner, in which were the following and \
articles, viz.—Some clqatfes, a li.ver watch, jJyin
7 iilver collars, 1 gun, 1 rug, several books
2 pair .knee buckles, and 6 letted. The '' cl f
fails and rigging of the/cliooner wer f chiefly "u'
laved; hull was under water and the S;!c i
Car g° loft - 16th-
Ihe above information comes from Solo- rhdr 1
mon Fardnewell, Dorcefter county, near b
the mouth of Great Choptank. ,'J
( J"* 0
S- By this clay's Mail
iited J J
Mr/. EO.jTON, Jaunary i.
per-
"y. la', e and Important.
!of Ey an arrival ijnpileffcy, at Salem, from
•«- Bourdeaux, ,V 49 Mr. Bwdtmr#
eM j merchant of this town, received a letter,
flic W^"' " 3t^ s t^le follow/rig ioterefting par
,l,e ticuiars :
Int _ " Bm'Jeaux, Nov. 7.
si t " Sipce writing- you tbe third l'nflant our
mit countrymen here, are rather alarw.d, owimr
ft to the news from Pans, that U interpret
cx- K ' d unf avou r al»ly to our commission; ther*
pe «> a letter in town from Gen. Pinckuey, to
tn, un American captain belonging to Charlel
my ton, (S. C.) requesting to be informed,
2 Au* I"'?V'l fit l? take paflengets ;
'' a [ and wh <f ,: " lle his family,. 4ht be ac!
commodattd by the 20th. for he did doc
re - noiv how soon he might be obliged to quit
by r ranee. This letter being from Mr. Pinek
arS ney, one is led to think they know pretty
his .ve.l their fate; but as yet, there has beeu
«- no interview between our commissioners and
«- this government } and until that is the cafe,
Lue * n * no P ofl;bllt y of forming a right opini
t JL-.
er- LONDON, Nov. 3,
riC u- T w eC °" C "' ,rl> °-P"°? lc . '/efterday, to fee
Z t b ; s Z° to °p™ % Parliament, was
V the final left eycr remembered on any former
\ limiinr occasion;
iil- C l rCU , m^ance of a carious nature occur
ll4 red yeflerday The King's fp,c t i was, »
?' "r t0 be f - nt to his Majesty, but
he by some miftakc, it was not delivered. When
J vvas robing, the Speech w 3s en
- quired for, but was not to be found. A
id £°Py was delivered to his Majesty, but not
fa 'Oeing plainly written, his Majesty could not
n read it. A meflenger was then lent to the
.Id Secretary of office for the original,
.re where it was found, and immediately brouehr
3 to the Moufc of Lords,
?o . None ot fading members of opposi
te tion were presents in the House of Common,. ,
in TheabfenceofMr. Fox. Mr. Sheridan,
ft, Mr. Grey, and some others, is to be accotin.
he ted for by their previous declaration, that
at they felt their efforts and their atte*dance
to be equally unavailing.
f NEW THEATRE.
-
Z THIS EVENING,
m JANUARY 8,
Will be presented the celebrated TBIXOEBY of
OTHEIXO,
J- r*. i_ ti MOOS OS yEN ICE.
Othello, mr Femiell—Caflio, mr Moreton—la.
go, mr Warren—Rodengo, mr Bernard—.Menta
'• ° f V,nice ' mr L'Eftran^e
). flrabantis, mr Morru—Gratiano, mr. Warrall
it Lod °* K *' mr Taylor—ift Oflicer, mr T Watrell
d —»d Officer, mr. Warrell, juri.
Defdemona, mrs Merry—Emelh, mrs Francii.
e To which will be added, the COMIC OPER4 of
i - the deserter.
i- [The Muficby MMeigh>, Philidore, and Dibdin 1
n Henry mr MwShall-RuiTet, mr Parley—Sirai
lf Bliffm F " n n % S T, Ski ™ Ji ' mr Bernard^—Flint, mr
e w r Blr Fol 3d Soldier, mr
"• w " rdi -
J V "¥ T u mc,r " Livaney, mrs Warren,
mde Harwood, rv.ik Milboume, niif.
rr:ls Anderfon, mrj. Hunter, See '
&• A new OPERA, called, Abroad a»b at
, Home, i, m rehearsal, and will be speedily produ
. tti, with other novelties.
» ■ ' --
' i j°o olllr » Pit « tllree quarters of a Ocl
;jind Gallery, half a Dollar.
■J-j r!u doors of the Theatre will open at five
- aodtfee curtain rife precifsly at sis o'clock.
' , <0 f r ! hc 3o,:c ' i:o Ix takfß at the Office in
f °i Theatre ' ff «i io til! i o'clock,
: aud r fr °' !l 16 "'U on the day. Q f performance.
r.ckets to be had at H. and P. U,ct's L-ook-ftore,
No. jo Mark;t-ftreet, and at the Office adjoining
Ibenrc. I'TAT REPUBLIC A !
\ War-Oiiice of the United States,
? W H obt R afn AS in .
tor: he dttten and SoS
An»jr,.bylhe produaion of forged inftrowenu.
To check m future furh mnofitions, it has been
thought advifeable ; that all persons, having claim,
for bounty lands, whether in their own rfght, a!
legal representative or by virtue of any instrument
or deed sf transfer, be retired to forward the?
fw P «fn iy r ""J t0 the War 0(r!ce ' »n "• .before
theh.. Spy °t January order that such
claims may be duly examined, adj ß fted and deter
mined upon. *
To fub-Jaritut,fuch claims, a ftridt observance of
the rule, hleretofote :/Tued from the War Office will
jbe lniJl eofable ; ;;nj in^dditim to what is requir.
Ed by thelari rules, th i certificate of the acknow
edgement or .Deed or Power of Attorney, mutt
r i tlle P lace °f residence and occupation
of the claimant or perl'on making such acknawledjr
ment; and whenthe p loo f of personal knoxvledoe
lsi rll w,tn f , o 'their place or place, of
rcfidrtice cmft be set forth in like manner-
JAME3 M'HENlty, Sac'y of War. •
- —d6w
Philadelphia & Turn
pike Company. V
. ~ January 4, I jog.
At a meeting of the Prudent and Manner,,
tbtsßaj, ad,v,dead vf s dollars per Jhare nuas
declared so* tbehfi haff yemr< whkh ;// h ,
them retained, for she payment of the debts of
the C+npany, agreeable toa rrJoUt,on of the Stiei.
holders the tub Ju*t!«/}.
Cf t FRANCIS, Treasurer
i Lanca fi e '\?urupik? Co.vi'py,
—» — mijf njj.w
n A L L. '
" t , M :' V,- anClf reri '^ ;nfor ' r, scholars, and
I P,n ui C "V-^ L Reral ' th '« h'> Second praAifinif
BaH w'U Ujin IhHrfriay the ink at the new M.
Srf W Sou hFo ee',between Ch-fnut
and U aln*t Stre, t- Ladirs Tickets to behad by ap.
plymgt. the fch lars ~f Mr. Francis, or at hi.
* No. 70 N.ortb Eighth Strter.—Gertler-m'* '
jefcets ane dollar each, to be bad of Mr. Francis,
at the Academy, or his house.
s ,S' iaiornjs theSubfcriber to th«
o lea Balls that the next wiU be on j u n 2v thf>
I6th— i hofc fuhferibers who have not yet received
their ticket, are request -d to apply fo/themTa.
Mr Francis continue, to take Scholar, as usual,
dj'Sallfbury Etiatq. j
SobCciiber, prbpjfing to. coilH-l hiib:( - 4
1. ncfj. fiH»rs ihi* EAti fOr fate» ofl
terms. On it arc one 3lall and ibtcc Air furnaces,
• complete jfcpring »r;H a very >.;ood grili
WiM, vvitn two pair ot it^n^s; also i pood all
in p rixL r«.p-»;i,as aie-a'.lthe W »rk« a»nne&J
cd with tlu_fe 'various branche: The Air fY.rn tres
w re Htely tor the t»f casting C-union
for this St 't: —These are aboi* two tfooufaiui acrc,-
of enctulf of which is under wood, theotluf
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Pa'iure. Tue Cantton lately Hiiimhtiurcd th' re,
fully proves the excellency ol the metal, which is
loperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one of fiacv-ni. e owns
lately made, although some of The were bored
into J; p undeM. have fail<d on proving. The si u- *" 1
ation is very eligible, particular y fur this branch of
inanufaftur.-, and a place of aims lying in the state
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles front ftveral land
ings on the lludfon's river, and cvery vadvan
tage tkac Can refill L from a plenty of water i{Tuing
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be convened into a variety of other
ulcfui purposes The purchaser can braccommodat
ed wuh all the ftotk and utenfi!s, and
on or before tne ftrft of June nexf, an \ prepar ition
may* be in«dc vu the meantime for going into Blast tm
mediarely thereafter, for every pan will be delivered
in good order, wuh some coal, Ore, dec. &c. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
p »a; David Breoks, K/q.one ct'the Reprefentawvca
in C*> grefr for this State ; Mr, David Waterman, on -
theorem; Tea, or to the proprietor in New-Yorkr t
WILLIAM NEILSOM. ;
!><-■ 1. 3 ,wlf
E.-r tale or to be let on ground- h
rent, jJ
A valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the rorth-eail corner of Wai- |
nut and Fifth ftrects, fronting the State-;
liojfe square. This lot is fifty-one feet front |
on Walnut /Ireet, andonehundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; thcr« are at h;
prey;lit two small two story b/ick houies, and a
number of iinall tenements thereon.
Also, far Sale,
Two three story Brick Houfcs
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-ilreet, between Mulberry and Saflafras A
streets, containing in front on Water street fit- !
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east- C
ward nineiy-five feet, then widening t<* the T
i'outh thirteen iptt fix inches. Thefc hou/es "
ave ihe convenience of apublie alley adjoh'iing '
on the north fide, and are a very dfifirable situa
tion for a merchant, flour faflor,or others who
may have occasion for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable terms
forcafh. For further information apply to the a
printer. *
Jufr yt. m&wtf nl
English Grammar, _
The second edition, with improvement*, I
ADAPTED to the different classes of learners;
with an appendix, containing rules and ob- p
fervartofls for alTifting the more advanced (ludents
to write with perfpicliity and accuracy, p
By LINDLEY MURRAY.
" This is a publication of much merit, and fully .
anfwets the profeffions id the Title. Iheappen- *
dix contains some of tUc best rules for writing e- 5
lc /^ntiy, and with propriety, that wc recollect to
have seen."
Monthly Review, July 1796.
" This Grammar is, 011 many accounts entitles b
to commendatory n«tice, its materials have been R
carefully jind judicionfly frle&ed ; it« arjangement p
is diftirr>U and well adapted to the purpose oi in
flrutlion and it* eipreflioH it simple, pcrfpicuous
and accurate, &ci"
See the character at large in the Analytical
Review, 'July 1796.
Englifli Exercises, '
Adapted to the Grammar lately publi(hed*by
Lindley Murray, consisting of exemplification of Ji
the parts of iuii u rtsof lalfii orthography,
violations of the rtiles of fyn.'ax, defers in punc
tuation, ar.d violations of the rules rcrpefling
perspicuity and ai curacy, defigued f»r the benefit !<
of private learners, as well as fer theufe of fchooU. > r
" Wo have bee« much pleased with the perusal | gi
of th: fe Exenifes. They occupy with diftinguith- jpi
cd excellence a tnoii important place in the fciencc
of the Englilh language; and as such, we can
warmly recommend them to the I eachers of -
Schools, as wellas to all those who are desirous of
attaining eorreclnefs and preciiion in their native
tongue. 1
Monthly Review, Jnly 1797. J
The above Books are forfale at Josuru & Jamss r
Crukshanks book llore, No. 87, Market flrect. p
December 1. ' 3" w » w - t(
4 ' TO LET, at
A Front Room, suitable for an
Office or Counting house, with a large .Cellar. -
Any'perfon who aiay rent the above, may (if re-
be accommodated with Board an r i Lodf:- g
ing in the fame house. Enquire at do. iBo, South
Front, near Pine flreet.
Dcccntbcr i.;. * 3 aw 3 w 2
Uriah Smith,
Ko. 20", north Third ftreet—uas for sale>
A neat and general affortmsnt of
Broad Cloths,Kerfeymeres,Napt
and Drab Coatings. also,
A variety of Gcntlemens' falhronable fancy Waift
coating, CtkHoliery, &c.
December c. " c
MUSIC. !
J. L. LENZ,
v "* Teacher ot, Vocal and instrumental Music, ,
RtI'URNS hisfincere thanks to the Ladies and
Gentlemen, from whom he received a very
liberal encdUragement since his residence in this ci
ty, and refpeilfully informs his friends and the pub
lirgenerally, that, in consequence of the r«queft
of some of his friends, he has opened a Musical
School at his honfs in Spruce Street No 174, where
he will teach on the Piano forte, Violin Jcc. &c.—
He deems it unnecessary to enlarge upon the ad
vantages the learner will derive from an inftituti
on of this kind; he will only fay, that attention
and zc»l are much exceed in an aff-mbly, where
numbers are in pursuit of the fame objeSt. Kis
arrangement is such, that an iuterfereace of the
the different sexes will be avoided. Those Ladies
and Gentlemen who cannot make it convenient to
artend at his school, be will wait upon at their
houses.' —Applications will be thankfully receiv
ed at hii honfe, where his terms and further parti
calats may be,known.
Dee. 7. *lweod
" NO T I C E.
A IX. pcrfons concerned are hereby notified,
that the futjfcri'oer intends to pply for a re
newal of the undermentioned loft certificates of \
Stock inthe Bank of the United State-,—He-for-j
warded them under cover of a letter addressed to !
f'jhn Anfley.of London, by the ftiip Bacchus, capt.
George, which left this part in June lafc for Lon
don. But that ikip having been captured'or: her
) alTugc and fen MO France, the above letter and in
clolurcs haVe tailed iu their deftinatiou,
TKrce tertiScate-, viz.
Nos. •2632,, 26326, 26327, each for
•four lhares, dated January lit, 1797, and
iifued in the name of Henry Grace, of Tot
tenham Hurhcrols, Gr«<it B* itain.
ZACCHEUS tOLLINS.
j For Sale by the Subicriber,
J ; Coitus
40 do. I' i:fa.
II do. Marjooiiy
17 do. Chintz
7 do. Cookery
4 do. GqfShs
1 1} do. Mffiagungecu
! 3 do. Check Stripe.
I do. Gnzzie
I box Diapers
7 do. Umbr-Has
St p'pe-s fineft particular Madeira Wine, of
I the vintasje 1795.
MORDECAi LEWIS.
I December j. jaW4 w
i Imported in the brig Eliza,
Capt. Hastie,from Baurdeauy ;
C lai et ir< i afes oi t very sup rior quality,
White Saucerne Wine in Caf.'S, ]
Olve Oil in balket-i of tl bottbs each, I
'Vhite andco!''ureJFi.id Gloves,
do. d«». yilk dc.
1 A f*w pipes oi Bourdeaux Brandy,
i For SalSuy
JAMES I A TIMER, jun.
I 71, South Wharves. ,
IVlm has also for Sale*
A few qr. Calks Old Sherry Wine. j
1 Dec. diw
A House in Burlington for Sale.
i fuhfei iber his a large, convenient two
1. story brick House, with Stables, Carriage
houfe, and a well improved Garden, in tht City
| ofSurliueion, New-Jersey, which he withes to
1 stLL. For termsapply at No. 5, South Fourth
street, to GEORGE WALKER, '
Who has also for pale,
Lots in Washington City, ;
Contiguous to the Capitol and to the principal
harbour. . i
December iq. eo7t
Priion Manufactory.
FOR SALE,
At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of all sizes, from sdy to »ody
: Flooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakers and Sailers Thread
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb and head Hones, hearths, chimney pieces,
► platforms, flabj, facia, window iiea4«, fills, c .
All which may he had on reasonable terms.
Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders from a distance, diredted to Daniel Tho
. mas, agent for the prison, will be attended to.
Dec*mber 26. mth6m
Imported intheihipMANC.HESTER,
Benjamin Shewill, Master,
From Bourdeaux, and for sale by the subscriber,
No. 11, Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy
Irilh market claret in cases I Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. J Drawback.
Santerne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatreyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter calks
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bushels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. '—t tut-ltstf
% ANTED,
K LARGS PARCEL OS
Scantling and other Lumber,
Suitable for House Building ;
Alfoa quantity of Stone & Bricks,
1 am ready lo enter into contrails for the a
bove articles —ajreafonable time may be allowed
for preparing th«m ; and cash fliall be paid either
in advance, or upon their delivery, as may be a
j greed on.—Apply to theSubfcriber, House-Car
penter, Lomband-ftreet, No. a.
John Crean.
December 19. d6t.
The History of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
Ig new in the press, and will be publiftied,
with all convenient expedition, by Zsch A-
Ri A H Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefntit-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed proposals, until the
work is ready for the fubferihers.
July 18. aawtf
This Day is Publifked,
BY MefT. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Ri'c and the
1 Other ttookfellcrs,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
Elfgantiy printed on IVove paper, and Hot•
prejfed,
By Jfclin Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
t The Constitutions
Of the several States with esclf other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of caeh Constitution, and
classing together their most impertant provisions,
under the several heads of admiaiftration ; with
Motes and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
, L L. D. and member of the Congress of the
United States.
7 Dedicated to tha People of the United States.
fJ- B- A few Copies printed on an inferior pal
- at J-4thsof a dollar.
r J ' Davis's Law Book Store,
d No. 319, High-Street.
; ! n GEORGE DAVIS,
rc DEING for feme time past in prepars
r;s I) tions for removing into his prsfent house, has
been under theneceflity of poftponinguntil this day
j e ~ informing the gentlemen otthe Bar generally thro'
to the \liiited States, that his spring importation of
pjr law books is now arranged and ready for (ale, 011
i T _ terms that he trails will entitle him to the like pre
tj_ freence he has experienced for leveral years past.
Catalogues, ocmbining the most varied collec
tionever imported into this country, are printed
and will he delivered on application.
June 17. * saw
re - JuJl Publifked,
I And to be had of iMelTrs. Donjon, Campbell,Rice,
sr ' I Cary, and the other pricipal IJookfellers is the
to city,price one dfcilar, twinly-five cents,in boards,.
New Views of the Origin of the
»«• Tribes and Nations of America.
,n " By BF.NJAMIN SMITH BARTON, u. d.
June »o. *6t
or FOR SALE,
r,d Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Including Long Primer, about 400 weight, in
good cor cition, and would anfvver the purpose of
a country printer as well as new,
Ei;quir<*of the Printer. ner. jc.
FOR S 4111. *i- ~
William Pritr pean,
119, Sofilh Froiit-llreet. n -xt door to the Cuf- -t-itj
ttjm-huufe, i c
A large affoftment of cufcoai
Cold and iiivcr Watches- ™v™
A Time K-ep r, 'y Arnold •
S ;rae plated tandleiticks Q f 3|
Double barrelled Giitv, by Mortimer, maker t j on
to the King of' England taken
Ditto, by Parker right 1
Pair du-;l!i«ig PiUois, by Kuubley, Cbaring Eveni,.
Cross _ when i
BcßciTiHg Telescope, by Ribright than /«
Box us patent Medicines toaftoi
60 lb Thread tliy tbt
Stna'l cufleclion of valuable Books, and paid f<
books of Prints Inde
-■,0.000 acres of Land ill cue Iot T upon* the such a
Big Sandy, in Mason county, Kentucky, pa- other e
tented by Perctval Butler, in 1787. the Th
Atfo, 14 Lake Erie Lots M* £ r<
Invoices or parcels of Watches bought. It ha
January 4. d7t confide
■ very in
For Sale, by the Package, ! e< * > *
_ . y T 1 iiito c
tor caift, or good noted at faxty or ninety days, coante ,
v ' z * . Sale
Book and Jaconet Muslins plain "j -j-his
ftripts, and Checks ! A (Tor fed in t! '
do. ao. I ainboured s . t ». e ex .
do. Ladies ha-.dkerchiefs, & ) P a(; 3 8 e '" easily
gentlemen's neck do. J
Jaconet chintz muslin for home and tbe Weft
India market, Pullicote and linen handkerchiefs, ———
for do. do printed do. do. common purple and "*l[)
chintz lhawls.
The above goods entitled to drawback on ex- T
portation. Also a few scotch carab« icks and an
aflortmeiU of tnuflia by the piece. Y NFC
The whole of the above being a consignment X no\
from the manufa<Aurers in Britain. and nv
To be seen at William Blackburn's Pedals
Office, No. 64, South Second Street. ftopi, w
Nov. 6. lawtf. tone, G
Valuable Books, [°S
Just received by the Fai* Americas from are ma
London, and now opening and felling by of the
J. Ormrod, No. 41, Chefnut Street.
CATALOGUES N ,',
Of the newly imported books maybe had gra- c ] IMlf , e
tis. These added to O's usual stock, form an nfve
1 exte*five ajid elegant colle£lio» of ancient and _
modern literature, and comprise books in lun- 03.1
dry languages and on various fubjefls.
7his Day is Published, affortn
. By J. Ormrod, (Price 75 cents, handsomely thefea
bound and lettered, and embeliifned with an land,
elegant frontifpiece 4nd seventy three euts.)
The Looking Glass for the Mind,
0 R > She:
The Juvenile Friend ; p° r
• • Aff<
Being a valuable colle&ion of interesting and
miscellaneous incidents, calculated to exhibit to ' ot
young minds the happy effe<Sls of youthful in- , r
no.-ence aad filial affeiflion—ln prole and verse. V.
Defigijtd to improve and amufethe rifinggeae
ration.
In the Press, and wJU be speedily published,
Dr. DARWIN'S
Plan of Female Education. For
Subscriptions for this incompyable work will A 11
be thankfully received by the printer. The book & cafl
will contain about three hundred pages, will be
printed with a, naw type on fine paper, de
liveredto iubfcribofc neaETjr boun«,-liuuiiil jml -
cmbellilhed with an elegant frontifpiece, for one
dollar. ,
January 3. at.
AH Ferfons i
Having any demands agamft the Estate of the
late Captain George Irwin, are reqtitfted to c
bring is their accounts pioperly attested, on or
before the irft day of (January next ensuing
and those who are indebted to said eite'e are so j Qr
licited to make immediate payment to ~ „
SaKAH IRWIN, Adminittratrix.
KOI'. 19 I 7Q7. j 6 ,
LEFT
At Alderman Bedford's office, Lombardftreet,
No. 8.8, about three weeks ago, a whole piece 5-;°'-
of cotton, supposed to be Itolen—any person
having loft the fame, proving property and pay-
[ ing charges may have it again,
December 46. *eo3t. n
■ NOTIC E. An
, " • mon«
' To holders of J/iMES GREENLEAFs
and EDWARD FOX's Engagements Th
IN consequence of rpany having been prevent- thep:
td, from late unavoidable circumflances from Waih
e obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former leleit
notice. The Trustees now inform them, they 'l uar
are ready to issue the fame to those who may ap- l "° c
" ply within sixty days, at No. 8 Chefnut Street, ' c
and those who do not, will be confidercd as re- " ' n
linquifhing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided for their payment. ,
HENRY PRATT,
THC MAS W. FRANCIS,
h JOHN MILLER, JUN. beer
3 j JOHN ASHLEY, Th
d JACOB BAKER. Pri z<
j' December IS- dfict or , „
"COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies. »§
c AfRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleas- G; ' nl
IVI. ureand returns her sincere ac- 1111
w knowledgement for the liberal encouragement 1
(he has received during four yeSrs refidenee in
- Philadelphia ; and allures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her TIT
school, flie has made a fujterior arrangement for -LA
the m»re convenient accommodation of her rea *"
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
, Groombridge and masters excelling in their r r
as refpe<£iive prof<-(lions. L
i y Corner of Spruca and Eleventh Streets. and
°' June sth, 1797. JSimfrf ufua
The situation is perfeilly healtiy ; and made 3a<^ '
)!1 more agreeableby an extensive garden andlot t '* e
e " of ground adjoining tbe house. s
A
!d SALES BY AUCTION-'
Stated Sales ■ e T
For D R T GOO DS.
IV
-r, f" Forenoon —Edward Fox, No. 56, mri( '
he m„„j„ \ leuth Front-street, cma
1«, \ Afternoon—Footman 4c Co. No. 65
ie C South Front-street.
f" Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City '
<r„./v j Audlion, No. 73 foufh Front-street. "\
Afterß-oon—William Shannon, No. 1
_ C 183 High-street.
N -'« S
Thurfdr F « ren oon—Edward Fox. hnn
in I Aft-srnoon—Job-i Connelly. this
of F ■, > Forenoon—William Shannon. oao
' ' ) Afternoon—John ConneHy.
{ SAtnrdaj Afternoon—Peter Ber.fon. i;
I
New-The.atre, A
Dfcembtr 11, I 797 -
THE Managers particularly requc-ft the con
currence of the puWic in the abolition of a (
cnf'ooi. !»s hitherto obtained, of giving a
wav or di.poftng of'RETURN CHECKS at the , <4
Theatre.
Th,L-y are that gentlemen are unconieious
of ai:y wi nng donr to t e interest of the inftitu- 1
tion by tliupradi.r , from a general, though raif
takcu Idea that Checti« are the repreSrstatiees oi a L
right to fu n,a:iy feats in tbe Theatre, during au
Enteftaiiiment, and transferable at will,
when in fad, they Were never intended as more
than hlwV which the ll&or-keepws are enabled &]
to afcoruin with the i -aft troubles ihe/>ar/««,tbHt
titj tbtmfi'i* have neen before in the lhcatre, or
paid for their admifli-jn.
Indepcodwt of the injury the Manager- sustain, »
such a pra&ice encourages a croud of i:Ue hoys and
other difarderly psrX"U. to fuirocnd lie ibicr? s>f ■
the Theatre, to the corruption of their moral* and
the great annoyance of rhe Audience. n -
It ha-, also been ti»e source of two evils of 110 in
copfidtrable magnitude; one i~, that fonetimes w
very improp»r conipany is by these n'.cani admit- Q]
ted ; and the other, that owin s to Checks pafEng
iuto dilhoneil hands, they have be n w
counterfeited to a large amount for the purpoftsof c
sale
This will, it isrefpeilfully hoped, in- -
duce the I'ublic to discourage such a traffic : and j
the exertions of the Managers will, if thus afiifted,
easily adequate r o its entire abolition.
WIGNELL y REINAGLE. X
Dgcember 13 - iW
Muftcal Inflrument Manufactory,
167, Arch-street. >
TO THE LO>VERS OF HARMOWY.
HARPER,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has
now ready for sale, a few o£hi« new invented,
and snuch admired fide board Piano Fortes, with
PedaU,patent l'wcll, fonqpahant and French harp o
stop», wjhich for fenlibijity of touch, brilliancy of
tone, fimplicity&nd durability of the
fnperiority of flatters himfelf, a uiigle tsi- r
al wiil convince the unprejudiced judge—As they j,
are under his immediate infpe&ion, t
of the very be?; seasoned material*, he oan fell 011 j
reasonable for Cash. Instruments repaired, J
tuned, &c. I
N. B. Second hand Piano Fortes taken*'in ex- ■ c
change for new. ?
n<rveml>er 1%. iaw2m°. ' ;
Samuel & iVliers Fiflier, 1
ARE NOW OPEWINU,
At thair Warehouse, No. 17, Dock Street, a frelh
assortment of Woolen and other goods, fiiitat. 1c to
the fealon, seceived by the late arrivals from Eng
land.
They have aifo for Sale,
Lisbon S
s ' h^<ls ' ancl luarter1 uarter ca " cs '
Port Wines, J
Affortsd queen's ware i* crates, &c.
i loth mo- ajd. diwjtaw.^w.
City of Walhington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
I A magnificentdwelling-bouf%,ac,ooodollars,
& cafli 30,006, are 50,000
1 ditto 15,000 tc cash »j,ooe 40,000
1 ditto 15, poo & cash 15,000 30,000
1 nT. Hr n»i tn.nnn »0,000
: 1 ditto 5,000 & cjfh 5,000 To,oocr
-1 dit,to 5,000 5c calh 5,000 10,000
1 calh prize of ' 10,000
t do. 5,000 each,arej » 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,00 c
ao do. 500 - - 10,000
' 00 do. 100 - - 10,000
iQO do. is> * * 10,000
3 400 do. 35 - 10,000
* I,coo do. 20 - 10,000
15,000 do. 10 - 159,000
-• 16,7.39 Priaetv
Blanks.
' 50,000- Ticket?j at Eight Dollars, 400,000
1 N. B. Tofavour those who may take a ouan
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the a.ast drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
_ but OKI : .
And approvednotes, securing payment in cither
•mon«y or prizes, in ten days atter drawing, wjll
be received for any number not lefsthan 30 tic<c
s ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant Specimen of
- tbeprivarte buildings to be erfiited in the City of
n WaJbington—Two beautiful deOgns are already
r lele>sted for the ontire fronts on two of tfle public
y squares; from these drawings it ispropofed to erefl
' twocentreand r our corner bailfiings.as foonaspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to cenvey them,
' when complete, to the fortunate adventurers,
, the manner described in.the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray the neeeffary expenses of print
ing, &c. the surplus will be made a |>art of
the fund intended for the National Uinveriity, to
|je erected within the city of Walhington. *
The real fecuritiesgiven for the paymofit of the
Prizes,'are held by the President and two Dijrecft
_ or» of the Bank of C®lutnbia, and are valued at
more than half' the amount of the lattery.
SAWJEL BLODGMT.
>. ,5, Tickets may beJiad at the Q&nk ot Colsm
hia ; of James V/eil & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
p. Gilman, Boston : of John Hepkins, Richmsnd
and of Uiohard Correr's Pe-rr-' r»ivv
Samuel Pleafants ?ff Sons,
, e No. 74, South Second-Jlreety
sr T T AVfe received a lupp(y of Seasonable GOOD.S,
3r il which they are now opening for 1 ale, on
er reafonabie terms. -27. —4W _
\ c . Peale's Museum.
ir npHIS valuable repofuory of the works of Na
.L. turc, so well calculated to delight the mind
and enlarge the undcrftanding, is opened daily, as
usual. It (lands in ail airy and healthy situations
j e and free from the epidemic that at prcftint affliils
ot the city ; it may, therefore, be frecjnented with
the greatest fafery.
As an the (ludy of Nature is the
molt rational and pleating : as a Science, tbe mod
sublime and
expands the heart. They
" WI cm Nature'sioorki can charm (aad bimfclj
" Hold converse."
Many inter jf! ing additions have lately hecn
■ 6 made to this Mtif<um :a d the feathered tribe,
' containing a variety of rhe mod rare and beautiful
t r fubjeds, is now vety advaiitageoufly arranged.
■*" Waxfn Figures,of Men as ljf # (some of them
calls from uature) are here drtlfed in their proper
habit ~ and placed in attitudes charafleriitic of their
refpedti-re nations Here may be focn the North
,o" American Savage,and the -sav:ige of South-Ameri
ca—a labtwing Chioele, and the Chinese Gentlc
-74 man —the sooty JVfrirvi, aiul the Kamtfcbadale—
with Natives ot the South Sea IflaneU- Ihe
immenft variety and interesting diverftty which
this Museum offers to the view, may be leco but
oannotbc described with full efftfd.
Price only l-4th of a dollar.
Seyt. iS. law
This Day Published,
Ami to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG t coiner of
Second and CneXriut streets,
Price 3-Btbs of a Dollar,
Gbfervations on certain Documents
Contained i* No. V and VI of
" The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the ciiakck of speculation agaifift
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secret arv of the T*£a»dry, is FULLY
RErUTED.
ITRITTBJ/ BT HIMSELF.
This publication presents a 6oncife statement
of the base means praftifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the charafters of those
persons who are considered as hostile to thoir disor
ganizing fchemej. It also contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and Mefirs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venabie, on the fub
jeft of the documents afortfaid, and a series of let
ters from- Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the possibility of a doubt,
that the connection between him and Reynolds,
was the refult.of a daring confpiraoy on the part
of the latter .and hjs aflociates to extort money.
A djfeounx of one third from the.retail price
will be made in favor of wholesale purchasers, {or
cash. Orders to be addrefTed to Mr. Yquns.
AU<TMP. If.
Yellow Fever and Peitilential
Diseases.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED is one vol ofiavo.
By William Young, Bookfellcr,
No. 51, Second ftrect, the corner oi Cheinut ilreet,
(Price, in hoards _ 87 I- 4 Cents)
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
A VIEW
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles eftablifiied in ths eletneßts
i of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN
With an attempt to correft feme important er
rors ofth-at work; and cases in jlluflration, chief
ly feJefted from the records of their practice, at
1 the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br WiLiiAM Tates & Ghjss. Maclean
' j To which b fubjained, a-Treatil'e on the afiion
' erf Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion i'or the cu,re of diieafes of indirect dobTlity<
Andadiflertation ontlie sources of Epidemicand,
■ Peftilentialdifeafes; jnwhichisattempfedtoproye
by a numerous induftion of fafts, tlrat they ne
ver strife from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain slates, or certain vicissitudes of
' the atmosphere, by Charles Maclean, of
Calcutta.
ntiv. «f. Jilt
FOR SALE, B-1
Joseph Anthony & Co.
No. 5, Chcfnut Street,
A cargo of choice BourJeauxßtajidy, ift and ad
proof, just landed
150 bales of Bow boa cotton ef afuperior qur'ity
9 do. Surat,' do do
A quantity of heavy black pepper in bales
Bourbon Indigo of the firft quality
High proof Jamaica ipirits
Old London particular Madeira wine ? In pipes &
do. market do ( qr. calks.
New England rum in hogftieaAs
s Genuine Holland Gin in pipes
' Claret in cases
Speripaceti candles andflrain'd oil
Prime Button beef .
10 Choice Halifax Salmonin barrels and half barrels
!£. H^rrind-in do do
Bed Bolton Mackarel in barrels ol tiie taU lire; "
10 New-England tow l*en
Kl A few tons of Bmttia cordage
)0 Ruflia feather beds
,c Clover and Tinlothy feed in ;afics
>o L;>ng whale-bone
>0 No 1,1, and 3, Eofton fail duck
>0 A few chefls firft quality Hyson tea
>0 Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and
>o An invoice of Dutch hollow glass ware.
>0 November 8. daw.
This day is Publilhed,
At the Qfficr of the Aurora, No. 112, Market Street,
_ [Price one dollar ahd a hal f ,]
A view of theconduft of the EXECUTIVE in tte
_ FOREIGN AFF AIRS of the UniiedStatss, conneft
ed with the Million to the French Republic durir."
"" the years, 1794, 5, 6,
bc By JAMBS MONROE,
1 r Late Mimfter.PlerspoieotiSry to the laid Republic
IlluHrated'oy his INSTRUCTIONS and COR
RESPONDENCE and other authentic documents,
jr' A very ltbeial allowance to those who bny to fell
again.
December 23. »6t.
0 f School Books and Stationarv.
Jy W. YOUNG,
jjf No. ?2, Sec#nd-llreet, corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
: TV AS now ready for sale, a very large aflort
_* JlI meilt of Englifb, French, Latin and Greek
I '.]' SCHOOL BOOKS. Also, such elementary books
:r j on Science, as are generally read in the academies
'and colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY MJBLISHEn,
Sheridan's Ditftionary, the sixth edition, in one
0 large vol. S vo. price 3 dols.
t0 Ditto, large 11 mo price idol 75 ets.
Ditto, common, price I dol. jocts.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Palltboards,
at (heathing and blotting Papery; printed Bi inks,
blank Books, Wax. Wffers, and other articled,
tlie best quality, u'ftd in t>.e counting lioufe, or
ni " public office,
ter Catalogues of a miscellaneous colkiSion of
1 BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be bad
" bv inquiring as above. Oft. 14. — 3;iw6w
~ LAW BOOKS, "
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
>s, / H. Iff P. RICE, Bookfellexs,
on No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market ftrect,
j_ y T AVE just received by the late arrivals Irom
AJL Lotx'on and Dublia, their spring importa»
tion, confiftipgef a variety of the turil ai:d molt
la- approved J. aw Books, \vhicb ; addedtoshofe alrea
nd dy on hand, forms the most exterilive colleftien ev
as er offered for fa!e in thi- country. They thv tfcri
3ns beg leave to notice, that frohj the nature of th-. ii"
fts conneftu nsin Dub'ri;:, they are enabled to Jell InJU
ith editions (as they have hitherto done) at thr v. ry
lowest prices. Ilu Sbllowing are among the lalc.t
the publications.
oft Vefcy, iiifi'rs Reports in Chancery, I , '.s.
ind Peako's CaITS at Nlfi Pr nsi l , Ridgeiray's Kef ort»
iti the time ol Lord K-vrdvicks ; 1 leyer's Procters
fJj praftice in the Fccle.lait.cal Courts'; Barron'*.
Trtatife o:i a Suit iu TitUi's Prafiice of
een the Court of Beiich in Personal Aftions, a
ibe, parts cornplcte ; U'ard's i.aw ot ?Jations; Cruise
iful cm) Uses ; modern Reports, It vols. London edi
;ed. tion,
em H. and P. Rtcz eipeft to receive t>y (he firfl ar
per rival from tke 6th vol. complete of
ieir Durnford and Eai's Reports, the ad part of Oii
th- bert>Law of Evidence by Loft, anil a number of
eri- I new publications.
tl«- June -(>■
Wanted, to Hire,
rich A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
but n. the centreof tiie city—for which a generrcs, ■
rent will bc given; to be t-ken for a vc.tr, or ft;
more for a lo!,gci terai. L;q\iircof tr.a Fmtt-.
v Oft. 17. ecrr