Unttetl Philadelphia Daily Advertiser\
Number 1781.J
FOR SALE,
tHE NEW AND R EMAftKABL E EAST SAILING
xTMIL I A N,
John J. Whidbee, Mafor,
NOW lying at Jeffe & Robert
Wain's wharf—her length '*, 69 feet 6 inches—
■breadth, to feet, ? inches, depth 8 feet 6 inches,
tneafuret 184 65-95 tons, and is completely piere'd
and fitted to carry 14.guns. Fo: terms apply to
GEORGE PLUMSrZD,
No ;66, South Front Street.
Ltivwifc from'on board /aid Sehoofter,
A Quantity of Peas. ,
Kiln dryed Indian Meal in barrels, aad 439 bar
rels of gh<p stuff.
A L S 0,
120 Tierces of Rice,
Landing from on "board the Schooner Elizabeth,
Captain Hatch,
m y 25 4tawiw
For Cape Francois, ,
NORTH AMERICA,
•wißriSp'&m'iwr TO fail in eight or ten days.—For
freight or paflage apply to
Pratt & Kintzing,
No. 95, North "»Vat<v", near Race Street.
WHO HAVE ROR SALE,
Port Wine, Claret, Madder, Brimeftone, Red
Crust Checfe, Tumblers, Tiekl«nburgh9, HefTcm,
Brown Rolls, Sic. Sec.
may 25 eod6t
~ FOR LIVERPOOL,
The remarkably last failing Brio
PENNSYLVANIA,
J ERE^TAH Tat em* master.
wili fail in ten day6 —for
freght or paflage, apply to J AMES YARD.
Walnut'Jlreet Wharf.
may 23 diot
For Sale, or Charter,
J-—THE ARMED SHIP
BELVID ER E,
Jonathan Reynolds,
LYING at Jefleand Robert Waln's
burthen 256 tons, built at
New-York, by Mr. Cheefeman in 1793, of live
oak, cedar and locust—was completely coppered in
London last year with 28 ounce hard rolled navy
copper, and copper bolted. She is well known to
be a staunch and faft failing ftiip, U well found—
mounts ten carriage guns and may be sent to sea in
■a fevj days at a v?ry little expeoctf. For terms of
charter or price on a literal credit, apply on board
to cjlpr.. Reynold's, or at No. 26, North Frort
ftrcer, to
RICHARD D ARDEN.
WHO HAS FOR SALE ON BOARD SAID SHUP
10 Tons dry white lead
5 Tons of shot
13 Ten* rolled ftieet lead
20 Bales Engliih Duck, aflorted uum6crs
10 Tons whiting
may 19 §
JUS I ARRIVED,
In the brigGayoPscapt. Bingham, fromSt.Martins !
A quantity of SALT,
cf an ex cellent quality
A few groce Forter Bottles, new
And twenty ca&s Vinegar
Also, FOR SALE,
Enquire of
jshu Hollingjworth £3* Co,
No. 22, Little water flreet, South,
april 20.
"FOR SALE
drb7own} HaVannah Su S ar
200 Hides
Will be landed to-morrow, at Wiilingsand Fran
cis's wharf, from on board the brig AdiVe, Will
iam Williams, matter.
faid Brigfor sale,
And may take in immedi
vPL.- ately after discharged.
Apply to
Jehu Hollingfworth & Co,
march 30. *" §
■ r
The Co-partnerftiip of the Subscribers,
TRADING UNDER THE FIRM OF
Joseph Davidson y Co.
IS this day diflolved by mutual consent, all those
having claims a gain It said firm, are desired to
render their accounts, and those indebted to make
payment to Joseph Davidfon, who is duly autho
rised to fettle the affairs of the concern.
JOSEPH J, MILLER
JOSEPH DAVIDSON.
N. B. The-Stores at the corner ef Market and
Fourth St# ts are now sco be let.—Enquire ol Jo
seph Davidfon.
April «6 w&s2m
FOR SALE,
A THREE Story Brick House, on the north
'fide of Spruce street near Second-llreer,
adjoining the wall of Mr. Jones's garden and
formerly occupied by David Lenox, efq.—This
house is incompleat repair with back buildings,
consisting of a Piazza, Kitchen and a hindforne
Dining Room over the Kitchen.
As any Person inclined topurchafe will view
the premifcs,a raore particular description iscon
fidered unneceflary.
The terms of payment will be one third ca(h,
one third in 6 months and the remainder in 12
months with interest. For further information,
Enquire of JOHN CR AIG,
No. 12 Dock-ftreei.
may 16 §
CONTRACTS.
r T ,, HE Managers of the alms house and houle
.1. of employment, in this city, will receive
proposals in writing* to be left at said house on
or before Wednesday the 3«? th inftant,from any
person or petfons, willing to for fur
nulling Frcfh Proviiions, fay, Beef, Mutton and
Vial, for the use of the poor in said houses for
one )4t : The contrail to commence on the firft
of June enfjißg ; the meat to befrtftiand mar
ketable, and to be supplied in quarters, fore and
hind alternately, or in fides or carcases, as re
quired.—— Also, for fupplyiog milk for the use
i'( the said poor. Tie milk to be new, fwcet',
' artd unadulterated, and ihe supply to commence
on the 14th of June ensuing.
By order of the Board cf Managers,
JOHN CVMMISCS, Steward.
may 21 dtij
By John Fen no, N°- 1-19 Cheftiut Street.
PHILADELPHIA;
FOR SALE
BY TUt SUBSCRIBERS,
The Cargo of the Ship Richmond,
Captain Hathaway, from Bengal,
Gurra. 1 6, white Guzzies
Ditto, bltic Gurzenahs
Salums Emerties
Gorahs Mow Sa»na»
Mamoodiea Peniafcoes
Tickiries Bafta3
Romalls CofTas
Doreas Tan jib*
Chintz Maida Cloths
Saul Gazzies Ciotha
* An elegant ajfortment of
Madras Handkerchiefs
Benares SUGAR
COTTON and GINGER
Mordceai Lewis.
may I}. ditw jawiw
Office,
Philadelphia, May ii, 170?*
FOR SALE AT PUBLIC AUCTION, j
AT the Cuftem- House, on Friday, the sis- ,
teenth of June, 1793, the following mer- j
chandize, which rejnain in the Cullom-Hoofe
stores more than nine months, unclaimed by the
owners or consignees thereof:
fXbl) eight half feggcts of fletl
(TDJ 202 one bale girthweb
(FL) a quantity of steel
one ease lamps
C&C «ne cife bobbin
(W) one small bcx medicine
AB 203 one matted cafe Dutch books
I&C one keg herrings
(W) one small box of samples of buttons
rj3j la 3 three bales girthweb
f VHJ 200 one ditto ditto
|N] 200 one ditto ditto
(No mirk) eight jars olive»
(ditto) one bundle slates
[LS] one small box locks
Will be fold for Caffi,
At eight o'clock on the Evening of MONDAY
the elevanth day of June next, at the M«r
chantb* Coffee house, in Philadelphia, if
not previously disposed of at pri
vate sale,
THE FOLLOWING TRACTS OF
Valuable patented LAND,
In the county of Glynn, in the state of Georgia,
and the counties of Bath and Randolph in the
state of Virginia,
700* acres at the head of St. Simon's Sound and
confluence of Turtle and Alatamaha rivers, ad
joining the common j of the town of Eronfwick.
41000 acres on the Great Satilla and on the head
waters of the Little Satilla, adjoining lands of
Wm.M c lntofc, JohnHowell, &FerdinandO'Neal.
25000 acres on Great Satilla, adjoining lands of
Freeman Lewis and John Howell.
4400© acre* in Bath county, on both fides of
Green Briar River, adjoining lands of Jac#b War
rick, Daniel M'Cullum and JohnDilley, including
3000 acres of pifyrfurveys.
41000 acres in Bath county, on the east fide of
Cowpafture River, and on both fide* of the wag
gon road leading from the warm fpringsto Staun
ton, including 5090 acres of prior surveys
40000 acres in the county of Randolph, on Bu
chanan River, adjoining lands of Thomas Wilson,
and including acres prior surveys.
30000 acres in Bath county, 011 the east fide of
Cowpafture River, on the waters of said river, and
ot Calfpafture River, adjoining lands of Joseph
Grubb, and incluping 50C.0 acres prior surveys.
The Georgia lands wiil be fold in traCls of one
thousand acres each, the others in the quantities
and tra<sU abov« described.
Persons defirdus to examine the title? and drafts
of the above mentioned land, will call for that
purpose on Benjamin R. Morgan, at No. 41, I
Arch flreet ; proposals may be made i
to cither of the fubferibers
* T. FITZIMONS,
No. —, Chefnut flreet.
B.R.MORGAN,
No. 41, Arch street.
JEREMIAH' PARKER,
No. 9, North Eighth street.
may dts
"advertisement.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, that by virtue
of a Decree of the Chancellor, will be fold
at Public Auction, at Snowhill, Maryland, on
rfea firft Friday in June nfcxt, part of a tra& of !
Land called STRUGGLE, lying in WorceftercouM
ty, and all the reft of the Real Eft3te ol Joshua
Townfend, deccafed, for the payment of his debts.
There will be given nine months credit for the one
half of the purchase money, and fi ( teen months
credit for the other half; the purchaser or purcha
sers giving bond with security fcr the fame, on in
tereft, from the day of sale.—All creditors of the
fa<d Joshua Townfend are ajfo again notified to
produce their claims, with the vouchers thereof,
to the Chancellor, within fix months from the 2»d
day of December last, that being the day of the
firft sale.
WILLIAM WHITTINGTON, Trustee.
may 14.
Robert Smith CST Co.
No. 58, South Frsnt-Jlreet.
HAVE received by the fiiip Belvidere from
London, a quantity of Ruftia Goods, con-;
fiftio of Diapers, Drillings, Ravens-duck, &c. ;
And by the Fanny, arrived at New-York from
Glasgow, an aflortmen! of Scotch goods.
They have also on hand India Nankeens,
Lutellrings, aoel 2 variety of India Muslins.
may 23 d3w
30 Dollars Reward.
THE Cellar of the Subscribers was broke
open last night, and several pieces of Stor
mount ground Chintz of a set figure were car
ried off. Whoever will apprehend the thief or
thieves, or recover the goods, shall receive the
above reward, or in proportion for any part
thereof. ROBERT SMITH & Co.
No 58 South Front-street.
may 23 dzw
VIRGINIA TOBACCO.
Walker & Kennedy,
No. 73, Sputh Front-Jlrcet,
HAVE FOR SA Lb,
50 Hogsheads Virginia Tobacco, of Frederickf
burg snd Falmouth Infpe&iotn.
30 Kogflieads ditto of Richmond infpcdlion.
rnav 3. % eod6t
Wants ia Place,
AS wet nurfc, a Young Woman, who can
produce good rcccmmendations* —Enquire
of the Printer,
may ts • Z*
SATURDAY EVENING, MAr 26, 1798.
CONGR E S S.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Thursday, May io.
\Coti6ludtdfrom our iaji .]
Mr. Macon was ftfrpriied to hear the
gentleman last up - fay he had beard nothiag
derogatory to the Militia. He thought*the
bill itfelf ihewed a want of due confidence sri
them. He /aw no object jn it, extrept it was
to get an armed force under the command of
men appointed by the Prelident of the United
States, ratherthan undermen appointed by the
Executive of the federal States. He had heard
no gentleman fay he warned any part of these
men tor the country from whence he came,
except one (Mr. Pinckney) who said that
1300 men would be well employed on the sea
coast of S. Carolina. He v.;as sorry to find
men who opposed the permanency of the land
tax, now, advocating this expence, which he
thought unneceflary, and which if . they
thought necefiary, they ought,to have pro
vided for, He was sorry the gen.tleman from
New York had found so much difficulty in
raising his quota of the 80,000 militia ordered
to be held in readiness. It was the firft diffi
culty he had heard of in that business.
Mr. Williams explained, by laying that
he did not fay there was any difficulty in rais
ing the men, but that it was attended with
considerable expence.
Mr. M. had no doubt of the fame spirit
animating our citizens aga"n>ft any enemy who
! may set their toot in this country, which ani
mated them in the late war. As to -he danger
of invasion, he thought if the gentleman from
S. Carolina (Mr. Pinckney) would compare
his observations of to-day with what he for
merly said on this fubje£r, he believed they
would not be found very confident with each
other.
Mr. M. said, it was always odious to make
companions betwixt the services of our regu
lar troops and militia, in the war; they both
deserved well. There were instances of bra
very in our Revolution equal to any thing in
the French Revolution. He need only menti
onthe battle of the Cowpensand the battle of
Key Mountain. In the latter, the Militia took
as;many prisoners as tliey carried men at firft
into adtion. There were some i/iftances,
on the contrary, in which the Militia did not
behave well. He had no doubt as to the bra
very and power of the Militia, whenever real
'danger approaches.
When a law was pafled to create expence,
the money must be found. He withed gentle
men to recalled that. He wished to avoid an
unnecefTary expence of a penny. The gentle
man from Maryland (Mr. Smith) had truly
said that money is the Pi new of war, he wiih
ed so be careful of it, though in cafe of neces
sity this country could' do much without
money.
But it was said, that it wattle finable that
this bill should be palled, because it would
produce a good effect in Europe. He did not
lay any ftrels upon this confideraition. Europe
would belittle effe<sled by feeing that we had
passed a law for railing *O,OOO mew, they
knew from experience, that this Country is
able to defend itfelf against any Nation upon
earth.
In actual war, Mr. M. believed a regular
force would not only be necelfary bu»t cheaper
thanany other; but if any sudden invasion were
made, every man landed would be cut off by
the Militia, before an army could be raised.
He said this country could never experience a
war like the last. The people were then divi
ded on the question of Independence; but
being become Independent, theie could be
but one opinion about remaining so. There
was a great difference, he said, betwixt the
Militia of this and other countries; here the
people, especially in the country, know well
how to use a gun and to take care of it, which
was a very eHernial part of a soldier ; and
whatever disputes might take place
house, the Militia of the country, from one
end to the other, would be unanimous in the
defence of their country and independence.
He had no fear, therefore, of any enemy.
They might distress us for a time ; but when
ever they landed, there would only be one
sentiment, which would be to drive them off
as soon as poflible. It was acknowledged that
the militia ofS. Carolina was noffo wellarm,4
ed as in some other States, but it was notorU
ous that Cord Cornwallis, when attempting to
pas. through that State was obliged to turn
back, declaring that he was got into a nest of
hornets. He did not believe that all tlie pow
ers of Europe combined can hurt us; as an
enem/ could get poll'eflion of no one place, or
few placesin the country, which could greatly
distress the reft.
Mr. M. concluded by faying, that he had
heard nothing toconvince him of the necefli
ty of railing these men, or of giving the Pre
lident the power to raise rheiu, and therefore
he should be forftriking out the feftion.
A call was made for the queftien.
Mr. Brent was fcnfible, at that late hour,
the patience of the committee must be a good
deal exhaufled. He would trespass upon it
only for a few minutes.
Mr. B. was far from thinking that the con
stitutional objection which had been urged,
was fatisfaCtorily answered. He had heard
nothing which had in the least altered his opi
nion on the fubjeCt. The gentleman from
S. Carolina (Mr. Pinckney) allows that
the doctrine laid down by the gentleman from
Pennsylvania is corredt, as far as it goes to
general principles, but that when he made a
particular application from these general prin
ciples he waswrong. Thegentleman from South
Carolina contended that to authorize the Pre
lident to raise an army under certain contin
gencies, was wot to give him the power to
raise an army. But does not this bill, said
Mr. B. give the Prelident power to deter
mine, under certain contingencies, whether
or not he will raise an army, for fix years to
come i He alked where the line could be
drawn ? He believed if it was right to tranf
fer this power for Jix years, they might doit
for an hundred years. On this head, there
fore, he thought the reasoning of the gcntle
tnan perfectly inaccurate.
But the gentleman trom South-Carolina
has fitppofeu this provision is not unconstitu
tional, because it was allowed by the gentle
man from Pennsylvania and others, if the
contingencies were all fpecific, the provision
would be perfectly constitutional, and as he
aliens the contingency of imminent danger
of an invalion," is as as the
other two cases, viz. a declaration of war,
or an invalid). On this point he differed from
the gentleman from South-Carolina altoge-
ther. War and invasion were explicit; but
when imminent danger of an invaiion is spo
ken of as a contingency, it makes the railing
of the army depend entirely upon the Preli
dent's opinion. Suppose the expreflions were,
" the Prelident of the United States (hall have
power to raise an army whenever he thinks
the situation of public affairs shall render it
necelfary." Would not every one fay, in this
cafe, that power was given to the Prelident
to raise the army when he pleased ? And how
does this-cafe differ from the other ? Who
wBl undertake to fay that the Prelident does
not now think there is imminent danger of an
invasion ? And if it should appear hereafter
that the Prelident had apprehended danger
when none really existed, he would only have
to reply, " that he a£ted agreeably to his
opinion at the time." The question, then,
results to this ground, and before gentlemen
gaVe their votes they ought seriously to consi
der it : can Congress divert themfclvesof the
right of raising an army, by giving it to the
P;elident for fix years, to a£t upon his own
discretion ? If they could, every constituti
onal provision is lighter than chaff ; but, as he
considered the Conft'uution too sacred to be
thus violated, he could never consent to the
measure.
But with refpeft to the expediency, of
which he had already fpokeu, he would add
a few other observations. It was proposed
that this army should be raised for the pro
tection of the southern, and, Asallallow, the
weakell part of the union. Yet all the mem
bers from that quarter (with only two excep
tions) fay they wish no such protection. Yet
gentlemen who came from other extremes ot
the union insist upon their being protected a
gainst their will, and are determined to cram
an army down their throats, whether they will
or not. This was the vioft extraordinary
thing he had seen since he had had a feat in
theJi-giflature of the union.
The gentleman from New-York (Mr.
Williams) though he expressed his inten
tion of supporting this bill, went into a copi
ous panegyric on the militia. It he had not
declared his intention, he should have thought
he would have ftiilconfided in the bravery of
our militia for our defence ; but, notwith
standing his remote situation, he wishes for a
standing army.
Mr. B. said, he did not undertake to fay,
and he was far from believing, that if a for
midableforce was to be landed in this country,
and there was a fettled disposition 011 the part
of France, or any other country, to make
war upon us, that it would not be necessary to
meet such an invasion by a regular force. All
he contended for, was, that an army of 50,000
men would be ineffectual in oppoling the in
vasion ot small marauding parties on our coast,
which was the kind of invasion we have the
most reason to expeCt. The mihtia was the
proper force by which to repel all such at
tacks. For, considering that our southern
coast is 1300 miles in extent, it was not polli
ble that a small standing force coMld be effec
tually distributed upon it. He had himfelf
no idea of any extensive invasion, and if any
such takes place, the militia would be able to
meet them, untif Congress met.
But, in our present circumstances, at a mo
ment wften it is impossible to fay whether we
shall be involved in war, or not ; or, if a war
take place, whether it will be maritime and
predatory war, or we shall be attacked by a
formidable army ; at such a tiiwe to increase
our military eftablilhment, will be to meef a
certain evil, whillt the event it is intended to
repel is most uncertain. He said a certain
evil ; for, however, other gentlemen may
consider them, he considered ltanding armies
as the bane of the liberty and happiness of
every conntry where they are established.
Gentlemen ought to recollect tint they have
ina manner decided this question by a previ
ous vote. It was contended that the land
tax, which was the other day under consider
ation, ought to be laid for a number of years,
in order to have formed a permanent security
for a loan of any money that might be want
ed for the support of this army ; but as that
question was not carried, gentlemen who vot
ed against that, to be confiltent, ought to vote
also againlt this army. Or could they recon
cile it to themTelves, to go into a measure of
this kind, remote as danger appears to be,
upon any conjecture, which may entail upon
them and their polterity a permanent tax up
-6h the land of the country, and that too at a
tune when the alarm which ha» been raised
throughout the union, has reduced the price
of produce from tlie highetf rate that was ever
known in this country, almost to nothing. He
w as not willing to do this.
Could it be expected, Mr. B. asked, that
the situation of things could be so greatly al
tered before the next meeting of Congress, a
period of only four or five months f He did
not think it could ; and if danger should then
appear too great to be averted an army might,
perhaps, be raised as soon as if it was let a
bout at this time, when that danger is not so
apparent.- Indeed, in every point of view,
it appeared to him, that to pass this bill,
would be one of the most improper measures
that ever palfed the legiflatureof this country.
Mr. Dayton (the Speaker) said, that he
had flattered himfelfwith the expectation that
the injuries and insults heaped upon this
Country without ryimber, and aggravated by
a refufal on the part ot the aggressor to re
dress, or even to forbear them, would have
produced an union in the public councils, but
he hadbeen grievously disappointed—he had
hoped that the communication of the dis
patches from our commissioners, in which we
were threatened with the fate of Milan or of
Venice, unless we consent to become tributa
ries at will to the French republic, would
have united this branch of the legislature so
far at least as respeCted the measures Of de
fence and preservation, but this hope had va
nished. The book of oppolition, which the
member from Pennsylvania (Mr. Gallatin)
had hitherto unfolded with a cautious hand,
and exhibited only in single leaves or detach
ed sheets, was at length opened to their view
in full volume, and the motion under consi
deration with the speech of the mover, might
be ( regavded as the index to it's darkest pages.
In the present critical state of things, Mr.
Dayton said he must be permitted to speak
plainly. Placed as a watchman upon the
walls, he should be unfaithful to his trust, if
he neglected to found the alarm when danger
was approaching. The menaces of distant
danger had already been proclaimed, but here
it was brought more neariy to them, it was in
the midst of thsir very camp. The gentle
man from Pennsylvania had now boldly erect
ed' his standard, and had invited ail disposed
like hurtfelf to rally round it. It was the en-
['Volume XIII.
sign of opposition, not merely to the admini
ftratjon or to the government, but to the, only
effectual measures of 'protection, defence and
preservation, and what, he asked, was th ( <&
motto most proper to be engrav.d upon it's
party-coloured field ; was it such as were feed
upon the colours of the patriotic legions of
1776? Far otherwise ; for on them were to
be seen *' Liberty or Death" —" No one lhali
provoke us with impunity'*—V We riik all
for Independence"—" We will be tributary
to no foreign power"—These noble fenti
raents strongly exprelfive of American feeling
and resolution, were imprinted in capitals and
in letters of gold upon the standards which
animated our citizens in the memorable sera
of the revolution, and led them to conquest-
Let them be contrasted with the language ot
the mover, who had eretted his figual for ral
lying, caused it's itreamers to be unfurled,
and had chosen for his motto " Weakness
and Submiflion," written it was true in faint
characters, and with a trembling hand, but
{till tco intelligible to escape observation.
Letthofe fays he, wljo chufe it, to fuctl
a standard, but he should arrange Mmftlf lift*
der the opposite banners.
Having exhibited the tendency and cliarac;
ter of the opposition to the principle of the
bill, which the motion went entirely to de
ltroy, he proceeded to remark with what art
and industry the mover had laboured to lull,
thjs country into a fiate of profound indiffer
ence, inactivity and security. 4< lam not
(fays t.l%e member from Pennsylvania) appre
hen five for my own part of an iuvafioii" —
And why should that gentleman be unJerno
apprehension from such an event ? Was'it
that secure in the perteit coincidence of the
principles he avowed with those which Jctu*
ated the furious hordes of democrats which
threatened this country with fubjugatidn, he
felt a confidence of' his own fafetv, even if
they should over run and revolutionize the
dates—Was it that, confiding in the remote
distance of his residence rrom the sea coalt, a
mong the ridges of the Monongahala, he had
determined upon the approach of the invaders
to flee to the rocks and mountains, and call
upon them, not to fall upon and cover him
for that day was not yet arrived, but to shel
ter and hide him from the foes of order and
of mankind. From those distant heights he
might indeed contemplate an invasion wirhout
alarfti or apprehension ; he might fee with
the calmness of indifference our dwellings
burning, and might 44 laugh at our calami
ties and mock when our fears came upon us."
Were these or either of these the grounds of
that confidence which he i'eemed to feel and
of that security which he would inculcate, or
was it that he really believed that no invafioa
would be attempted I To give colour to his
opposition he had profefTed to take the latter
ground and had defended his position by the
assertion that it was not the interest, nor in
the power of the French to effect it. As to
the argument which took for its bafisthe mere
I calculation of interest, it would, Mt. Day
ton laid, have had some weight with him, it
the interest of the million was attended to in
France, orat this moment otherwise regarded
than as it might promote the ambition, the
power and avarice of those who hold the reins
of government. It was known that the great
mass of the people were not at all consulted,
nor even permitted to vote or adt except as
their rulers willed—lt was known that they
were ia fadt completely brought under milita
ry defpotilm ; and that the musket and bay
onet were the instruments and support of this
otherwise fhort-iived ufurpation—*lt was
known that the Directory mult find employ
ment for their armies or that the armies would
find employment for the Directory, and that
their fafety consisted in their ridding them
selves in any way of at least forty or fifty
thousand of the molt restless, daring and am
bitious spirits. The interest ot the whole
people of France was therefore one thHng,and
that of those who governed was another very
different and opposite consideration. To
transport to other countries the men to whom
millions had been foler.inly promised at th£
time of their and who might there
fore become importunate and dangerous A
home, would be the interest, and mu<t be thi*
wilh of the French Pentarchy t whose heads
would otherwise be made to ikip from their
shoulders. This would be their mtereft even
where there might be little prufpeCt of suc
cess for thetranfported army, because the ob
ject would be equally answered, whether they
Ihould succeed and provide for themfelvTs in
a foreign country or be vanquilhed and utter
ly dellroyed.
As to the power and the means of invafiotf,
it was known, Mr. Dayton said, that there
were already collected, upon the coasts of
France bordering upon the Englilh channel a
numerous army which in gasconading style
was called the Army of England. It was knowri
that there were alio collected and collecting
at the various ports in that quarter ships of
war and transports of all descriptions. The
fame soldiers who were prepared to Invade an
ifiand might certainly be employed upon the
Main, and the fame bayonets would pierce the
breasts of the people inhabiting the latter as
the former. Their larger transports, their
frigates, their larger ships cut down and arm
ed en flute, and their ships of the line might
transport a considerable part of them across
the Atlantic, and land them upou our shores,
and would very pofiibly be thus employed in
the event of a peace in Europe, or of their
abandoning from any cause whatever, their
project agaslift England. But the member
from Pennsylvania aware of the pollibility of
the attempt, had endeavoured to divert the
country from immediate preparation by the
afUirance that we fhotild have timely intelli
gence ot such a delign, if it should be con
templated, and her.* Mr. Dayton said lie en
tirely differed from that gentleman. As th<
fame men, arms, artillery, and military ftor£s,
were calculated us well for the one expedition
as the other, and as there was a futficiency of
(hipping calculated for the navigation of the
Atlantic, it would follow that there would be
nothing in their preparations tn> evidence 3
change of purpose, and a design aga;n(t the
United States, but the additional quantity of
provilions (hipped in which it would not be
easy to detect them, or certainly not potfibje
to do it in season. He declared himfelf to he
ot opinion that there was other force befiJes
that in the Welt Indies which was capable of
invading this country, and other States, be
sides the two or three molt fouthcrn, againit
which that force might be directed.
As to the unconititutiona! y <&? the prin
ciple contained in this firft feet ion, as had heea
objected by its opponents, it was truly re
markable for the noviUy of theWhich, was now for the fir ft rime made by the •
enlightened members of;he jih Congrels.al- j
though not a feflion had palfed lince 17 9 1 in I
which il?e fame'had not been acted upon and j
fanCtioned. Mr. Dayton said, he recollected
perfectly well thatfix years ago, in the fern- |
0n0fi792, the faction which contains, thisve- (
ry principle in its broadest latitude was drawn ,
np and moved by a very respectable member
from the State of Virginia, one indeed of the
mod respectable of thofeAvhe had ever occu- j
pied a feat in that House, and who was a mem
ber of the Federal Convention. (Mr. Madi
f«n). That gentleman had done him .the fa
vor to (hew him the proportion before it was
moved, and to a(k if he would give it his
support, which it received not only from him- !
felf but from the whole house. It thus be
came incorporated with the aC* parted in that
year, and that too without the lead fiiggelti
on from any member of its being unconflitu'i
ooul, either then or at any time since, altho'
it had been renewed in many of their laws.
Without remarking upon the accuracy or
elegance of" the expreflion of the eloquent
gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Brent} when
he spoke of Congress " cramming tin army
dvtun their fbroats" he (hoitld pass to another
which was exceptionable, not in the abstract,
but in the application which seemed to have
been intended by it, " slaves fight for hire,
but freemen for liberty" was the expreflion.
If it were at atf applicable to the bill before
them, it mud necelfariiy be applied also to
those, who were engaged for the fame term in
the (ervite of their country and contributed
to greatly tt> achieve its independence. Did
the gentleman mean "to brand with this appel
lation the men wlu had endured hunger, eold
and nakedness, and braved every danger in
the revolutionary war, merely, because they
were enlisted for a term of years, and received
pay j r their services t Would he call thole
slaves, who, at that crisis when thousands
shrunk from the conflict, pr.fented thtNr
breads jfld bayonets between him and dan
ger ! Wire they (laves who made-him what
he is, The Rcpreferitatme of an Independent
People, and to whom he is indebted tor the
privilege of speaking in these Councils ? It
■was a ieivtwiient which (hould be taken back,
and i reserved for other and fitter occasions,
where it would not be coftftrued as applying
to those meritorious men who had heretofore
projected him and iheir country, and whose
services might soon be wanted again.
He complained "of want ofcandourtn the
ice nber from Pennsylvania continuing to urge
the objection of uncbnftitutionality, -after lie
had himfelf admitted rhat it noiild be entire
ly removedby the amendment propo'edby the
Select Committee with a lingle alteration and
»fter tha't gentleman had by his own motion
to lirike out the whole lection, prevented
that amendment from being previoully made
in it.
Mr. Dayton conclud-d by faying that he
tailed on those gentlemen who veredefirous
of providing for the defence of this ctHintTy,
hereto make their (land, and to oppole unit
edly a motion so, fatal to its interests and lafe
ty—He invited them to unite with him in de
fending inch by inch the important provisions
of this bill in all its parts, and only to yield as
Compelled by .numbers compoling a majority
against them.
Mr. Brent allured the gentleman lad up
thai he had given a very improper explanati r
onto words which he had uttered- If he had
jnade use of any expreflion that could be con
flniediato a reflection upon' the brave army
who fought in our revolutionary war, he
would not hesitate a moment to retract it, be
catife he was delrrous of giving to that patri
otic band every praise wTiich they deserved.
The gentleman from New-Jerley was also in
accurate in ascribing the expreflion to him.—
It was firft used by the gentleman from North
Carolina (Mr. R. Williams) whenremark
ing upon what had fallen from the gentleman
from Maryland (Mr. S. Smith) heobferved
that the people o£.tbe United States are free,
and so long as they continue to enjoy the
bleflings of a good government, they would
be equal to the repelling of any attack which j
may be made against them, and he used the j
expreflion which~he (Mr. B.) afterwards ;
Quoted, when replying to some comments :
which had b«en made upon it by the gent'e- 1
man from Maryland. He thought the gen
tleman from North-Carolina was correct in
his idea ; he believed the militia of this coun
try fought for jiobler conlideritions than mo-
H-y_:they fi o ht for liberty and independence.
'• Mr. R.. Williams (aid, the gentleman
from New-Jersey had given his words a con
frruction which would offend every man in
the United Stales. He had made ule of the j
expreflion to enforce his idea of the pretera- j
blenefs of the militia over a ltandingar.my.for
-the' defence of the country; of men who
fought in defence of the blelfings they enjoy
ed, over those who fought merely for hire, j
ile couli} not fee how the gentleman from N.
Jerfev could have underftqod it in the way in
■which he had dated it.
With reipect to any thing which the gen
tleman had laid wyh respect to the oppolition
which had been (hewn to this bill., it would
not deter him from acting as he thought be(t
•would serve the interests of his country. He
did not himfelf wtfh to dictate to any man
how he ought to aCI, nor did he wish to be
dictated to. All had the fame interest, he
supposed, to lupport, and if they differed a
bout the means of effecting it, it ought not be
charged against them as a crime. He won
dered, therefore, when gentlemen Could not
compel others to think with them, that they
should think it neceflary toabufethem. Stich
conduct wenttodedroy the freedom ot debate.
Tf members are not to beat liberty tocompare
their thoughts without having illiberal mo
tives ascribed to them, harmony and good or
der could not be expected to fubliff -amongst
them. He lived in a remote part of the coun
try, but he believed, in time of danger, nei
ther he nor the people who lent him, would
Call upcm the mountains to hide them, as the
gentleman from New-Jersey had insinuated.
They had never (hewn that difpofitiom
But the gentleman from New-Jerfey,.on
this and former occasions, chafes to. single
out a particular character in that House for
his levered censure. He did not know why
he should do this ; if there was any blame to
lie imputed to any man for opposing this bill,
he (hould wish to have his (hare of it, in the
way in which it wa«.ufual for that gentleman
to bedow it—a way which he, however,
thought unwarrantable.
A motion was made for the committee to
rife, and negatived.
Mr. S. Smith said, did he think with the
Speaker, that this question was the touchstone
by which to determe whether members were
willing to defend their country or not, he
flioitld wave his opinion and vote with him.
From the receipt of the la(t dispatches from
Franct, he had made up his mind to go into
ciTantial measures for the defence of the coun
try, but not to go into any thing which he
did not think eflential; and if he differed from
the gentleman from New- Jersey on thisquef
tior., lie rrufted he would not impute that
difference to a determination not to defend his
eountry.
Mr. S. said, he never did conCder this as
■ ■ J- - , .- -jv .
m eifential bittf "isn't he agrfeedtoialce it with
lie amendments proposed by the select com- d
tiittee. When he did this, however, it was F
tpon the idea that gentlemen Who were deli- n
ous ot .voting for measures of defence would o
illo have voted for raifingmoiiey to paynhem. »
Jpon this view, though contrary to his fen- n
iments, lie promiled his support to the bill.
The question which was decided on Mun- r
lay (the question determining whether the "
aud-tax (hould be for one year or annual) \ t*
was that which ought to have been a rallying r
point. It was then gentlemen threw from r
them the (trongelt defence, when they 1
leclared they would not tax themselves more
than one year for the defence of their liberties 3
ind independence—and sot now upon a quef- v
tion of raising a body of 10,000 men, which r
would scarcely serve for an advance-jjuard.
Money was the thing warned'. There had not <
been a single object of defence which he had 1
not voted for ; and he had been the means of '
bringing forward the touchstone with respeCt '
to paying the expence; and what was the- '
:onfequencef The question for making the
land-tax annual was lo(t, 6o to »o, so that the *
tax was only to be laid tor one year, which . c
would produce two millions of dollars a year j a
hence. Was not this weakness itfelf) He •) c
thought it was. What was meant bycharg- . e
:s brought against geutlmen of being unwtll- 1
ng to defend their countery ! No one could '
renoufly believe for one moment any (uch ; •
thing. Gentlemen, may talk ofraifing men as (
much as they please—They can be got when- i c
vef they are wanted. Money was the thing 1
wanted, and not io.ooomen, whom lie could ]
'aile in one half of his own d.itnct, in fhree J
lays notice. Besides, Bo,woo men were helcl '
n readiness, and might be called out in whole ;
ir in part, at anytime. Indend, (incegen- '
Ictiien who are (o loud in f peaking of defen- •
ive measures, have oppolcd the railing of '
noney, lie could Scarcely conlider them in '
?arne(t. I *
Mr. S. said he did not mean to go at length I '
nto this (object; heonly wilhed toconvtnce t <
the Speaker that.persons might beoppofedto i '
rliis bill without beingoppofed to the taking ■ '
jt meafuresforthe drfence of the country. j '
Mr. Daictpk wifhed-. the gentleman from i '
Maryland to answer one or two things. If i 1
io.ooo men could only be conlidered as an 1
advance-guard, why was he'fo anxiotii to re- 1
duce the irutnber from 2o,ooc?to 10,000, and *
urge huh (Mr. D.) to to the reduction f • 1
1 hiUgeiitu*Hund:dthij,fpokeofa€ompromife I
which had taken place in the select commit- 1
tee, and that if he (Mr. D.) would support [
it, the bill would pals withoutoppofition. Is '
it not extraordinary, that after this, he (hould
• iow be leelured by tliat gentleman, and that
he himfelf (huuldnow be found opposing the 1
compromise which he hadbei'ore recommen- '
ded ? He thought it was. • '
Mr. S. Smith fait}, he had noidcaoflec- '
turing the Speaker. He was making an apo- 1
logy for his own vote. Mr. S. said, he was '
alked why he wilhed to reduce the 20,00 a men 1
toip,ooof He neverpropoled any fuchthmg. '
It was a compromise offered to him by the
Chairman of the committee, and of the two '
evils he chose the least, though he did not j
think the jne 11 neceirary. But since gentle- 1
men had declined to vote for the necelfary '
money to support the expence, he thought i
himfelf excufed.lrom voting for these men at '
all. Whenever tile time comes for defend- '
ing the country, he had no dpubt about find
ing men enough: He knew ot.no difaffected
or feditiotis persons of whom certain gentle
men feem,ed so much afraid. . He knew of no
American who could pot be trujipd; and if
the militia had arms putjiwo their hands they"
would be equal to the reperting of any preda- j
tory attack. Should war take place, he should !
then be in favour of a regular army ; and if j
war (hould not take plac , then tlje expence i
of railing tile army would be laved. [
Mr. f in dle y w' flied m mention one fait. ;
The gentleman from New-Jersey had made
an ungenerous and unfounded insinuation as
to the want of fptritof the people in the coun
try from whence lie and his colleague (Mr.
Gallatin) came, by faying that he supposed
that gentleman would go to his retreat 011 the
Monongaheh, and call upon the mountains
to hide him. Does experience juftify the re-,j
flection ? He did not live in that part of the
country during the war; but he recollected
that there were two regiments of men from
Wcfttnoreland who fought bravely in New-
Jersey.
Mr. Sewall rose to explain the business
relative to the compromise which General i
Smith had mentioned, but- was prevented by 5
a call to order, and by the interference of the :
Chair,
Mr. Ltos said, he (hould not have risen ;
at thi" late hour, had not the gentleman from
New-Jersey called to his mind some argu
ments againlt this bill. In the firft place, that
gentleman told the committee that the '
have got a band of l'oldiers which they 40, ;
not know what to do with. Mr. L. wilhed to
keep this country out of a limilar situation,
and therefore he was oppoled to this bill.—
Another reason, the gentleman fays this force
is now neceirary. [Mr. Dayton said, nofuch
thing had fallen trom him.] Mr. L. laid he
so underltood him, that from the present situ
ation of things 111 1-ranee, and particularly of
the army of England, and of the vell'els pre
paring to traniport them, that it was now ne
celfary to raise these men, and that the Pre
sident would think it necelfary. Mr. L. had ,
no doubt the Prelident did think 10, and he'!
was not willing that he lliouid Have an oppor
tunity of earring his wilhes into effect: He
, supposed gentlemen were aware that they •
cdtild not at present prevail with the House
to raise an army, and they therefore take this
way of putting it in the President's power to
raise it, without their confcnt."
I The question for striking out the firft fec
| tion was put and negatived 47 to 44.
The committee rose and h.td leave to fit
again. Adjourned.
Friday, May it.
Mr. A. Foster prelented an address from
Portsmouth, N. H. approbatory of the con
duct of the Executive, and exprellive of de
terminations to (uppori every measure of Go
vernment.
Mr. Otis prefentcd an address from 130
inhabitaritsof Roxbury, Maflachufetts, to the
fame effect.
Mr. B rent also laid some Refolntions up
on the table from Fairfax County, Virginia,
to the fame effect.
"Mr. Varnum prelented a Memorial from
the freeholders and others ot Hopkinton,
Maflachufetts,againft thearmingof merchants
velfels, and againlt War generally.
These addrelfes were severally referred to
the committee of the whole 011 the State of the
Union.
The bill for the relief of William Imlay,
was read the third time and passed.
Mr. H arpfr,-(Vo«i the committee of ways
and means, reported a bill to provide for the
afleflhient and eolleCtion of Direct Taxes,
which was twice read and committed.
Mr. Pinckney asked and obtained leave
of absence for the remainder of the feflion, on
the ground of his family concerns requiring
his attendance at home.
Mr. Harper, after premising that he ttn
derftood many ot' our sailors were differing in
Foreign Ports for want of the means of retur
ninghome, fromiiavingbeencaptureelonboard
our vefTels, moved the following Refohnion,
which was agiecd to, and a committee of three
members appointed to'carry it into effjdt.
" Rtfolved that a committee he appointed to enquire and
report, by bill Or other-wifeivbcther any and ivhat fur
ther proceedings are necejftjry to he made by law, for ena
bling the Prcfidcnt of the United States to afford to Ame
rican Seatntn -who may be left in foreign Countries, by
rcufon of the capture tr detention of the vcJJtlj to ivhinb
they belonged, the means of returning home"
On motion of Mr. Sewall, the house ,
again resolved itfelf into a committee ot the
whole on the bill authorizing the Prclident to
raise a Provisional Army ; when
Mr. Dawson rose, and moved to strike out
that part of the amendment of the select com
mittee, which is in the following words:
• 44 imminent danger of such innjajion, difcvvcred
in his opin '-on, to exijt." He said.he would ftatc
_ his reasons.£or making this motion.
That the fitnation of the United States, at
this time., said Mr. D- is extremely awful and j
delicate, is acknowledged by all ; and he |
j agreed in the sentiment which had been so
often ex pretfed, that C.ongrels to ad9.pt
, every meafttre tor our security which exist
; ing circumfbocesmay req,uire a;»d our cohfti
-1 j tution authoriie, whether we may have been
; . brought into that situation by the aggrelfidtts
i ' of other or by the policy of our
,"j ownadmihiftration. Some, he knew, there are
who.are persuaded that eve;y a£t of ajur Go
| vernment towards foreign nations, has been
jwft and impartial ; othens there are who
L think that we may have committed errors,
and that we ought, on conviction, to redress
them. Some there are who attribute the con
duct of the French Republic towards us to a
fiippoie division in our puhlic councils, and
k between the people ahd their government ;
j whilil others are apprehensive that intempe
{ j rate, acrimonious language, and inflated de
. , clamation, oh our part, may have irritated a
, j Nation, in her viftory and giddy with
■ I success. Whether to or to which ot these
j several causes we are to attribute our present
l | situation, Mr. D. said he would not enquire,
f } and (hould think it wife to keep out of view,
j .as far queftions which have so
much agitated the Union, and divided her
[ councils ; he was of opinion that all parties
.. thould unite their endeavours to avert the im
» pending dorm, and ft they cannot do it, they
' Ihould be prepared-to meet it like tnen relolv
t to support theconftitution, the liberty and
s independence of their country.
[ These being sentiments ,and principles to
t which he was forever wedded, he must ex
. press his aftonidiment at insinuations which
" had been so often heard within those walls,
, from gentlemen elated in their own estimation,
who are constantly plaping feathers in tbeir
own caps, and ascribing to others who differ
s from them in opinion, at lealt an indifference
to the interests of their country. With what
delicacy these charges had been made, he left
1 with the gentlemeh tbemfelves to determine,
\ with what propriety they had been urged, an
t impartial pubLic will decide. XoUpat tribunal
he chearfully appealed; and he Felt a confi
■ dence, that if by the aggressions of other
t governments, or the policy of our own, our
t country Ihould be involved in war, the gen
tleman with whom he had the honour to a^t,
[ Vi ould be found as ready to meet danger, and
j as firm in fupporti/ig the liberty and inde
pendence of as their Vaunting,
j opponents.
f With ftlefe impreffiorts uport his mind, he
fh'ould readily vote in favour of the bill under
_ confideratioH, however large» the number of
J j men, or great the expence, could
\ himfelf that exiffing cifcumftances require the
e j adoption of the'meafure, or that theconftitu
| tion would authoytfe the delegation of power.
} 3ut, believing a* .he did> that there are no
" dangers whicli at this time threaten our coun
j rry, which may hot be met by the Militia of
it, and as.he was that the conffttu
tion does : not atidiorize the propdftd delega*
j of poweiy ha must be opposed to the bilh
On a review of'the subject before the com
. mittee, two, and. only two points present
* themielves toour enquiry, aud tfvefe have been
Z\ so fully treated.by gentlemen who had preced-
J edftiui in the debate (especially by the able
1 member from Pennfylvani'a, Mr. (Gallatin,
and his ve r y eloquent colleague, Mr. Brent)
that anattempt on his part to enforce their ar
, gumefits, would be adding sophistry for
I foning, and declamation for perfualion. He
( would, therefore, fit down with moving his
J ; amendment.
j A call for the question was made,
j Mr.Sewall would only observe, t4iat this
' question was the fame which had been debat
-1 ed for several days. He left the public to
j judge of the candour of gentlemen in thus re-
j peatintr questions upon the committee. If the
bill was to produce any effedt at all, it must !
' • have its principal effect from those words. !
0 As to ih" constitutional scruple, he believed
e motion did not prevail (which he trusted it
h would not) he ihould move to confine the
c power proposed to be given to the Preiident,
to the recess of Congress; and if imminent
~r danger Ihould exist in the meantime, the Pre
sident certainly ought to nave the power to
begin to raise these men.
The question was put and negatived 48
a to 41.
-j Mr. Sewall then moved the following
e wordsto be introduced into the committee's
* amendment, viz. " before the next feffton of
t Congress, '■which is orfball be appointed by law.' 1
y This motion, after a number of obfervati
e ons upon it, as to the propriety of its form,
was agreed to, in these words before the nezt
fejjton of Congress.
(To be continued.)
it 20 Dollars Reward.
RUN away, last night, from the Subfcyiber,
living in York Town, Pennfylvaiiia, a
German Servant man, named John Nicholas
fn Kolb, a tayloi< by trade about 30 years of ajre
1- i and about 5 feet a inches hiph, has brown curled
I hair, and nearly bald on his head, bad on a blue
>- : Surtout coat with a silk velvet cape and a dark
| blue coat with steel buttons, a green mixtured
5° cloth jacket, cloth colored th'ckfet pantaloons a
f new rorum hat, clouded cotton fiockings and
j calf ikin (hoes with firings. He is a good fchol
3 \! lar in the German tongue and speaks Enghih ;
a > it is likely he may lurk in and abut the city of
Phi'adelphi as he has acquaintances there.
ra Whoever takes up and secures fiid servant in
11 » any goal so tkat his master can have him again,
ts (hall have the above reward paid by me,
Thomas Owens.
mav n 1 w
A Premium ot 100 Dollars
V> XT TILL be paid by the Bank of Pennfylva-
VV nia, for fnch Plan of a Backing House,
* s accompanied with feilions and elevations, as may
ie be approved of. by the Dircilors. The building is
s, not intended to exceed 60 f-.et front, or 100 feet
in depth, and to be so planned as to admit of its
te j feeing made fire proof. It is requeued that the
>n \ plans may be fen* to the Cafliier oi, the Bank, pre
lg » vious to the firfl of June nest.
apriJ 1?. tutHstiJe
%t)t £d3CttC.
PHIL A DELPHI A,
SATURDAY EVENING,Mat t6.
CONG.R ESS.
Ycfterday, the Ho»f« of Reprefentitives of the
United States, were employed, principally in dis
cussing a bill providing for the relief of persons im
priforted for debts tlue to the United States, which
was finally agreed to. It provides far releasing
persons imprilonCd upon execution ifiTuing from any
court, of the United States, far any debt due
tu the United States, on..their latisfa&orily prov
ing that they are unable to pay the debt for
which they are imprisoned, and that they havp not j
concealed or made any improper conveyance of their j
property. A motion was made by Mr. Harper, !
to, include in this provision persons confined on mefne ,
procefa, previous to jiidgment, which occasioned
confideral/le debate, and which in the committee of j
the whole, was only negatived by one vote, viz. 5*
to 31 ; but which, on being renewed in the house,
was negatived 48 to 29.
A little before three o'clock, Vr. Sewall, from
the committee for the prote&ion of commerce and
the defencf of the country, repoftcd it a* the opinion
of that com '.ittee that the house ought to concur in
the bill from the Senate for the more effe&ual pro- ,
te&ion of the commerce and coasts of the United '
States. The report was twice read, and the biU
was ordered to be committed to a committee of the
whole. On the Speaker's \ utting the usual ques
tion, " For what day Jhall it be made the order?" Mon
dly, to-morrow and to-day were named. The >
question 00 Monday was put aud jiegatived 43 to !
37. Itoe Speaker was about to put the question on. j
Saturday (this day) when it was opposed by Messrs. i
Sewall and J. Williams, on the ground ©f the ;
present situation of things calling for immediate de
cision, and fluting that it wa< proper the bill (hould j
be immediately agreed to; and it was advocated by ;
Messrs. Gallatin, M'Dowell, Macon, Brent and Ly
on, who desired, that as the hour of adjpuramcnt
was arrived, this question which went to place the
country in a state of war, would not then be insisted
upon, but that they might 'at least have one day to
consider of it. Mr. Sewall at length withdrew his
motion, and the bill was made the order for this day.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE VNItED STATES.
Muck debate might be spared in Congress, if
it were easy, at once, to dcte& and expose the
wiles'bf fophiflry ; the party, which for many
years have pritflifed every art and violence, in
opposition to government, will never relax in.
their drabelical fyftern, To long a» they can main
tain themfelvei in power and influence. If, they j
find, they can no longer work on the paffiona j
of the people, t&d inflame their minds by spread- '
ing abroad calumhous mendacity, they will |
change their plan, and endeavor to confonnd J
their understandings by the arts of fophifticatior..
There it a man in the public councils, by uature
largely gifted ; by education rich in literary at
tainments ; by habit, free from all the pertur
bations of pafTion; and, by inclination, not
disposed io those plsafures of conviviality, and
the table»whichfuipend and diflipatethe thoughts
from inttnfe application to business. A man of
this cast, though he may not, " be fit for trea
foqi, ltrawgerui and spoils," may yet '* perplex
and d»lh nutureit counsels," and •• make the
bad appear the better cause" with a luminous
conception of his objeil, never obfeuredby em*
baYaflmeiit in the dtlivery of it, and always pre
pared by a profound knowledge 0/ the fubjeft,
which he is able to enforce by all the power of
words, and to defend with the fame weapons,
what mighty mifchtef may not such a man ef
fect" (if hia heart bi vicious) in a free popular as-
Jembly? and what abilities mull his ddverfaries
pofltfti, promptly, to refute and filencc him ?
Di&cult as this may be on the spur of the occa
iion, it is less so, when wc contemplate his ar
guments in the ciofct. The main one on which
he relics, or his whole reasoning falls to the
ground, is, that it is in the option of the United
; States, so far as our affairs relate to France, to
have peace or war; and, that, though America
| has cause of war, juitifiable caufc of war, yet,
;as war not declared, war is not yet produced,
reau the fpeeeh of Mr. Gallatin the aoth of
| April in answer to Mr. Allen and Mr. Dana and
yom will find he is irot mifreprelented by me ;
the words in Italics are extraded from it ;
44 whether the power of granting convoys ftiould
be retrained in time of peace" 44 that a war
will be more prejudicial to commerce" &c. &c.
44 all these prove that his ailumption is, that
there is peace—fir, arguments however ingenious
have ho power over fads, to iatfs then let us
appeal. France wages war againjl the United
States, is at war with them—has produced war y
to use hia own words—can any man of sobriety
and truth deny this ? The fame measure of hos
tility fiie has meted to us, it is proposed to mete
to her, and this without any declaration of war.
But, if we do this, fays Mr. Gallatin, we lhall
44 produce war"—in the name of heaven is it
noc already produced ? And so far from its be
ing in our option to eflgage in, or declare war j
it is well known, that every effort we have
made to heal our differences, and to ward off
this dreadful calamity his been attended with no
| other confequvnce, than to increase the temper
I of hofti.ity, and to strengthen oui enemy in
: the determination to multiply injuries ; ih
pioportion, as we mani.clted a spirit of pa
tience and forbearance, they have robbed and
inlulted us —does the gentleman mean that the
fame degree flf hoitilicy toward us from France
is not war, that would be if dealt by us to
France ? Surely a reprel'entative of the people
in the giand council,of the nation will not have
the hardihood to avow this ? and yet, this is the!
fair result if his realonmg. I defy him, or any !
man to extricate him from thi» dilemma ; either
that France is at war with us, has produced war;
or that our defence of ourl.elves, both by laud
and water, not exceeding in its mode and mea
sure the hoftiliry that has been waged against us,
will not be war To fuppole a declaration of
war, (which is only a ceremonial) adds to, or ;
diminilhes the extremity of the evils of war* |
is one of the molt pilpabie absurdities that a <
novice in politics can entertain, and therefore j
never entertained by Mr. Gallatin. The war
which began in 1778 between France and Great
Britain and ended in 1 jB3, a war of five years
continuance was newer declared. r J he war be
tween Frederic the. third of fruffn, andjofeph
the emperor of Germany concerning the ex
change of Bavaria for the Aultrian Netherlands,
was 4 if I remember accurately* declared, both
parties greW wife, made peace and not a battle
wa* tought,— how idle then to cavil about a decla
ration of war ? America is now driven on this
ultimatum, fhc must defend herl'clf (be thecon
ftqutnees what they may) by all the energies
at>d faculties of purse and persons ; or, she
mult resign that ltation, which she claimed:,
vindicated an<} arrived at among the nations ol
tl« earth, INDEFENDKNCV—This is her
only option ; and what elcdlion theMrne sons of
America will make admits of little doubt : II
opposition tell you, peace is attainable, they
deceive you ; your wUe> your prudent Pieli
dent with unexampled patience, has temporifed
has waited events ; has been bind to mfulta and
to injuries ; all these have been submitted to, in
(1k hope of til difference?, anl
keeping the United States in peace ; his endeav
or, have proved fruitless : it it the duty now of
all virtuous citizens to look our Gtuation in the
face with fortitude, and as we have llready
displayed our magnanimity in ihe mattery of
our pafiioss, prove in the sequel our firmnefs by
the manly, but temperate conrlinft ot our
RESENTMENT.
M*. Fenno,
Will you pleife to publish the following
quotation from the convcrfatioa of Mr. Y.
with oor Miniften in France, as an intro
duction to the remarks of i
A Correspondent.
" Yoti ought to know that the diplsma
tic (kill of France, and the means (he pos
sesses frt your country, are fufficieut to enable
her, with the French party in America, to
i throw the blame of the rupture of the nego
' ciation? on the Federalists, as you t*rra
■ yourselves, but on the Pritiflv party, as
, France terms you ; and you may assure your
selves this will be done."
Let us examine how far this opinion if
jultified by the sentiments of Mr. Gallatin,
delivered ir» Congress. Mr. Gallatin has
j declared that " France has given us just
! cause ®f war ; but if Congress do not thinly
proper to go to war, they ought not to .
grant the "armed vcffels as convoys, which <
would be in fatt war." He adds, " the
queftio > is, whither we (hall bear with the
losses which mufl result from capture, or
| refill them with force and war ?" Is i not
; evident that it was Mr. Gallatin's intention,
! by this mode of expreflion, to throw the
j odium entirely upon the Americans, if a
I war defenfive upon our part should be found
| expedient. While the Corf airs of France
take our unarmed vessels, and abiife our citi- •
zens, he docs aot fay France makes war up
on our commerce. But if ylmcriccns rcfifi
those who endeavour to talc away their pro
perty, " if armed vejfeh are granted as convoy t,
■ " this i« in fa& war." Mr. Gallatin has
too much underflanding h'imfelf to think,
what he vould wish his words to make
others believe. He knows well, that unlcfe
our eonvoys are attacked, in faS it mill no! be
war. War is commenced by the nation
which attacks. Our armed vcffels are to
defend, not to attack. It is not our view
unjuflly-to invade the property of others,
I but to defend our own. The means of de
fence are not war, a'id it is an insult spon
! the public to imagine that Mr. Gallatin
j can thus deceive them. But the truth as it ap
! pears to me, is thai Mr. Gallatin has an ardent
wilh that the Freneh should have as much
American property as poflible, on the most
easy terms, and that they should deprive u»
of the sources of resistance, before we art
allowed to make an effort to refill, j He
would throw the odium upon those who
refill, and uot upon those who make an un
| just attack. He would throw the blame
which will attend the rupture of the nego
ciations, and going to war, upon the Fede
rslills, who love their country, and will not
give up its. interest to any other. My coun
trymen, do you not think that men pof
fefling the fentimeiits of Mr. Gallatin, are
such as Mr. Y. terms the French party, and
that upon such men France depends for
fuecefs againjl us ?
A native American.
. To THE PRESIDENT OF thi,UNITED STATES
Sir,
DEEPLY impressed with the alarming
crisis to which the political relations of our
country have arrived, and believing it im
portant and ncceffary at theprefent junflure,
that our government, as well as foreign na
tions, should be'affured of our firm ai d de
termined attachment, to the Conflitulion
and Government of the United Slates;
WE the Inhabitants of the Town of Fay
etteville, cannot forbear teflifying our full
approbation of your admiuiftratiofl, and our
entire confidence in your wifdom,-integrity,
and patriotism.
We conceive this declaration more imme
diately necessary, when we are sensible that
attempts have been siade to represent us as
a divided people, and opposed to the measures
of our government. This Sir, is not the
eharafterof Americans. Convince l os the
impartiality of our Governmcni, in itstranf
aftions with all nations, and grateful for the
happinels and prefperity we havj: enjoyed
under it, we come-forward unequivocally to
declare to the world, that we will support
with ouf liv«s and property, the Conflitu
tion, the Government, and the Jndepen
dence of our country, agaiifl the arro
gance and inimical views of France, or any
foreign nation whatever.
While we fervently pray that I® calami
ties of war may not again desolate our coun
try, and that we mav still continue to enjoy
the bleflings of peace We cannot too
highly approve of the meafurcs which have
.been taken to place our country in a torn
piete (late of Ttefence; which under a firm
reliance on Divine Providence, and the jus
tice of our caule, will, we trull, enable U8
to bid defiauce to the attacksofevery foreign
power.
[Signed by order of ihe inhabitants of
the towii of Fayette«ill.]
ROBERT ROWAN, Chairman.
May ioth, 1798.
T0 the Inhabitants of Fayetteville, in the Stats
of North-Carolina.
tF. NT l HMEN,
I THANK you for your address,
which has been presented to me by Mr.-
Grove, your Reprefentaiive in Congress.
The union of the people of America is of
so muih importance to their happiness, that
any arts or means'pra&ifed, or attempted
by a foreign power to divide them, mull bo
considered as proofs of a disposition towards
, us the moll hollile and malicious—rthis ad
dress is as friendly to that union, as it i*
discouraging to its enemies.
The full approbation of my adminiflra
tion, and the entire confidence expressed i*
this refpcflful address, are of high value to
me ; the unequivocal declaraiion of your
i convidiion of the irr pai tiality of our go
-1 vemißcnt, in its tranla&ions with all nat'orp, a*d gratitude for- the happiuf fs and
prosperity you have enjoyed under it-; that
you will support with your lives and pro
perty the confutation, government and in
dependence of our country, against the arro
gance, or inimical views of France, or any
fereign nation whatever, —give the belt
>. proof in your power, and such as will be
iatisfaftory that the Americans are not a
divided people.
With your firm reliance on Divine Provi
dence, and the justice of your cause, with
fcch jmeafures of defence as may be found
expedient, may you bid defiance to the at
tacks of any foreign power.
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May 24th, 1798.
At > meeting of a number of the inhabitants of Ches
ter county, at Hunt Downing's, in Dawningtown,
on thr 98th of April, *798, in pursuance of an
advertisement for that purpose, Dennia Whelen,
Esq. in the chair, and Jofepb Hemphill, Esq. se
cretary. On motion, Alexander W.' Fofler, Wafti
ington L. Hannum. Robert Miller, Samuel Haines
and Jafepi* Hemphill, E'q. were appointed a com
mittee t'» draught an address to the Preiident, Se
nate and House of Representatives of the United
State*, exprcflfi»e of their fentimerits on the present
fttuation ot our affair ; and also an address to be.
submit ted to the inhabitants of Chefler county for
their iignatures
■ The committee appointed, reported the following
•ddrefc, which was unanimously adopted, and order
ed to b; finned by the chairman and secretary, and
by them to be iranfinittcd to the Pefident, Senate
and House of Representatives of the United States.
To the Prcfidevt* Senate, and ffejtfe iff Representatives of
the United States,
fit a moment so ituerefVing, when a foreign nation
is threatening the peace and happirefs of ihe United
Sutet —We conceive it to be the indn'p^nTable duty of
real friend to his country, to adJrefs thecontti
tuted authorities in the language of truth, and with
ientimen<« ot corfi<ience in the adtniniftration of go
ve nmeit, and with particu.ar'approbation of the
concili vory measure* that have been pursued, in or
der so rrmove mifunderfUadings, and promote peace
between ihiscoun.ry and Franre—m afures that must
convince all America, France herfelf, and the world
erf the candid and upright intentions of pur govern
ment, \vhile seer's oa"e been marked only by v the ex
treme of ariogance. bafenefs-and perfidy.
We have ever jufUy appreciated the wife and dig
nified government under which we live, so well cal
culated to promote the greatcft polfihle hap'pinrfo to
this couiwy; and a though since i sorgr izdtion, we
have in some mfeafure felt the effc&s of cunning arts,
and the lungs ps- injuflice and yet we
have hecn moll happily preserved trom any great and
Infupp. rcable Calamity, either frdm foreign wrongs
or domellic irttfigues We are also fully imprcflcd
witii the imp: riant trqih, that theconduft of the A
fnvrican government frjee, the commencement of the
Trench .e o'ulio-.. hi been diftated bv a flri& re
gard to ;he rigntso. France, to ourown honor, and
the and duty we owed to other inde--
pender.t nations. Th§t, on the contrary, the con- j
du£t of*thC French government under its successive j
changes, bar# been directed to involve us in war a
broad, ahti -marchyat homeland at present boldly
threatens to reduce us to the humiliating degradation
of submitting to \he absolute control of a government
which disavows the equity of our claims, and of
those laws that '«ave hitherto regulated the Jcivilized
nations of the world; A nation that has adopted
tending to disorganise society, that ha*
treated with contempt the commifll ;«ers lent to make
props r expiations on thefubjc&s of differences; and
whose demands on this country have been openly and
avowedly < telared-by their agents, to bave no pretence
tofoundation in justice, but 10 be extorted on the
principle of a fear of refufal on our part, and of the
power, avarice and corruption of their -government
Which (independently of producing .a ,
war with all her enemies) would be to h«r.
power to make ireflt demands, and make less able
to re 6 ft.
We feel it more eften'ially bur duty to cbmc for
ward this time, in exprefling dur fenttfccnU >9fid
repelling with indignation the infjr uarions and threats
made to ourcommiflioners refpeftinga French party
in America, tha* number* have been he et»fore at- .
tached to her measures from a want of information
and a knowledge of her principles and defigus, iscei
tainly true but to us, it is a confolatorv refle&ion,
thai those per ions on a review of the conduft of pur
government, will learn how ca itious they ought to
be, in withdrawing iheirconfidence and attachment
fromqheir own legitimate government, and placing
U on- foreign nation, or iaftious and intriguing do
mestic d &j»d at a moment so impor
tant ts tne present, pregnant with every thing dear to
America, we pu the fullcit confidence in the differ
sent department* of government trusting that under
their direftions, in a cause fojuft* we have nothing to
fear.— 'ind wt do most solemnly. declare, and pledge
ouvfalvrs for the support of government and its ad
miniftraiisn. a* iar as lie* in our power, and will
chees fulty fuhrrit to every .pecuniary burthen, that mav
be thought necessary for the fafcty and independence
of ou counuy.
Signed by unanimous eonfent of fa id meetings
DENNIS WHELEN, Chairman.
Joseph" Hfmphill, Secretary.
Powningtcwn, aßth April, 1798.
To tie Inhabitants of Cbejier County, in the State of
Pennfyl-va/tia.
OBNTLKMEN,
I THANK you for your unanimous address
tp the President, Senat« and House of Rtprefan
tatives, prsfente. 1 . to me by your representative in
congrofd Mr. Thomas.
I am happy that you have ever justly apprecia
ted rhw government under which you live ; —tlm
you are iinpreflfcd, that the condu-3 of your govern
mem fincethe commencement of the French rev
O'ution, has been di&ated by a striA regard to the
right* 0/ France, to our own honor, public faith,
and the duty wr owe to other independent nations.
The conduit ot the French government, under
the present Executive DiretSory, h*9 made it teo
maniteft, that nothing ,f!»ort of invofving ourfelvss
in a war with their enemies, will fktisfy them.—
What the confidences of a measure, so rafli and
tiDjuftj would be, may he conje<slured from what
we know has happened in several of the nations of
Europe, aud cfpccially in all the republican (Vatcs.
The indignation, with which you repel the in
sinuations and threats, made to our ministers, i§
the genuine, natural sensation of men of intigri
ty, and virtuous citizens.
Those lovers of themfelvea, who withdraw their
confidence from their own legitimate government,
an-J place it oa a foreign natio", or domestic fadion
or both in alliance, deserve all your contempt and
abhorrence.
While the solemn declaration «f your confidtfnce
in government, is a great encouragement,your en
•gagemeut to support itsadminiftratioa, an 3 submit
chearmliy to every ppetiniary burthen, that may
be thought necessary, for the fafety and indepen
dence of your country, become the chara&er of
excellent citizens, and is is a laudable example to
all. t JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May 4th, 1798.
The following Address was this day'pre
fented to the President of the United
States, by Mr. Harper, at the request
of Jthe fubfaribers.
To the President of the United States,
Sir,
WE the fubferibers, Freeholdss, and
of the Town of Fredenckf
feurg, state of Virginia, feeling it a duty
we owe to ourselves and to our country, to
cxprefs our opinions of the condn& of our
government in regard ito its foreign rein'ions j
,do cownroSteitft js she sense of the iub
fcribera, that your several attempts to res
tore that harmony betwaen the United
S'tatea-of America and the French Repub
lic, which has been so impair
' ed, and to rcinftate that giod understanding
between the two nations, fu desirable to the
If vers ofjpeacc, have been wtfe and pruder t,
and intitle you to the- evidence of
our esteem ; and that whatever may be the
opinion of Foreign Nations with refpeft to
divisions among ourifelves, ifcould it be the
misfortune of our country to be* involved in
a war with any nation, you will always find
us readp with our liv-.-sar,d fortunes, to sup
port a' d defend the Conflitutipn and Laws
of our Country.
George W. 8. Spooner, Wm.'Drunimond.
Elifha Hill,, Wm. Jones, Antbony Beck", Rich
ard Richards, Robert Patton, Wm. Olafieil,
Thos. Southcomb, Andrew
Peter Gordon, Wjn. Taylor, Geo. Murny,
Jas. Pcttigrew, Timothy Green, Wm. Payne,
Jis. Carmichael, Lawrence Bowes, ' Thomas
' Hoilge, Geo. French, Richard Johnson, jun,
John Anderfon, John Coakjey, Wm- Fitzhugh;
(Chatham) Charles Crowghton, David Hen
derfon, Rodgsr Coltart, David Blair, Jefle
V.'riglit, Charles Yates, Wm. Level!, Alex.
Duncan, Wm. Wili"«n, Robert LiUty, Tlios.
Cochran, Jas. Stevenlbn, John Brovniow, Jos.
Thornton, Beoj. Day, Winj Wiatt, Zachaiy
Mayfie'd, John Newton, Davi j Simonds, Phil
ip LijifcuMib, Dan Grinnan, Jas. Vjulhell,
Dan. Stark, Sam. Stevens, Godlove Hieikill,
"1 hos. P. ttafye, Jonathan Harris, Thos. Seddin,
;un. Robert Weltord, Philip Gl ver, fohn Legg,
Edward M'Dermof, John Alcock, Jacob Grotz,
John Moore, Adam Darby, James Blair, Win.
Hamilton, Riihrrt Dykes, David Wiiliamfnn,
Wm. Acres, Wm. Talbot, Jas. Refs, John 80-'
gan, .{obert Walker, John Kirk, Samuel M.
Dougtu, Wm. Welft, AJ#x. ; S. Roe,-John-
Dare, /as. Slater, ChaHes-Stewardj -Chriflian
Helmftettcr, Wm. Smith, Benjamin SebaftiVn,
James Adam. /
I, George W B. Spooner, Recorder of the j
Corporation of Fredericklburg in the State of
Virginia, do liereby certify that the*above de
claration and fignituresarefaithfullypopied trom"
the originals. , '
(Signed)
GEGRGE W. B. SPOON£R,
Tcft, R. C F.
William Taylor, Alderman.
Anfwerof the President of the United
States,
7*o the Grand Jury for the Dijlrid of Fay
etteville, in the Strife of North-Carotina.'
GENTLEMEN, " "" 1 !
I THANK you far the obliging and j
unanimous address which has been preferited
to me by your Representative. in Congress,
Mr. Grove ; for your candid approbation
of my conduftj'n relation to our affairs with
France, and of the measures recommended
to the «onfideratton oi at this
important and periloua period, when our
country is menaced with a war, as unjuftifK
able on the part of our enemies, at it is un
provoked on ours; for yrtut 1 -avowal for
yourselves that you cannot fuffer; the idea
to exist for a that you will fdbmit
to national degradation, or the invaflbo of
our country, or pur rights,, by,atiy power
on earth: and for your opinio a, that
the fame sentiments are universal -in th«
several counties of your diftrift. ■ >
Acknowledgments of' reliance "on; the
virtue, wisdom, moderation and fortitude ;
and of entire confidence in thc-fidel ty, pa
triotism and independenctr of-the depart
ments of the federal adminiftratidfi'pledges
of personal exertions, example and influ
ence to vindicate the_liberties and indepen
dence of our common country,, and to sup
port that free 'and happy republican go
vernment, tinder whose mild laws, and be
neficent influence, we fcave experienced
such ample and manifold blefiings, have the
happicft tendency 10 eonfirm the union of
the American people.
Upon this occasion I will hazard an ad
vice to you, Gentlemen, and to all the
American people, to love one another and
preserve your union, whatever appearance
there may be of divilion of sentiment among
your Representatives, either in legislation
or administration.
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May ilfl, 1798.
To the Citizens of Upper, Freehold in the
County of Monmouth and those in its vi
cinity, from the counties of Burlington
mnd Middlesex, in .the State of New-
Jersey.
GENTLEMEN,
Your address to the President, Senate and
House of Representatives. has been pre
sented to me byyour Representative in Con
gress, Mr. Imlay.
I receive with much fatisfadion the assu
rances of your approbation <of the exertions
and firm reliance on the wisdom and patriot
ism of the National Government.
As the base attempts made upon the hon
or of the United States, through their min
isters, cannot be read by honest men, with
out indignation, the manly, firm and patri
otic manner in which those attempts were
repelltd, cannot be contemplated without
approbation and applause.
The sensibility and gratitude you express
for the bleflings you enjoy under the Gov
ernment, your abhorrence of the idea of
crouching to the servile terms of foreign
ta(k-mafters, and of the baneful ■ eondu£t
of those among 11s, wh#fe influence if not
immediately checked, will be found to be a
canker, preying upon the root of that In
dependence purchased by blood, are all as
jaft, as your resolution to resign your ad
vantages, only with your lives is honorable
and glorious.
The recolleftion of pall events, and the
great and illustrious Chief-who led to con
'queft, and to glory, will inspire the breads
of the aged" with a generous scorn of going
off, as well as a brave and noble youth, with
a horror of coming on the Stage, in aftate
of degradation anddifgrace.
JOHN ADAMS.
Philadelphia, May ajl, 1798.
A few boxes of Umbrellas
To be S'jld cheap—by
Mordecfi Lewis.
may 17 daw ,
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, May*;.
The following article appears, with admira
ble gracr, in a Bourdeaux paper of the
2 3(J of March :
" WE have long- been in uncertainty as
to ihe .conduit the English would obferye
"towards neutrals. We even flattered our
(elvcs they would refpeft their rights'and
their flag—But we were deceived. We
can no longer doubt the order ifTued by the
Admiralty of London, io Hop every neutral
veflel bound for a.. French port. Shall not
this new outrage of the tyraiitS of the sea,
be the last ? Will foreign powers delay any
longer opening their eyes upon their true
intefefts ? Will they make dny hesitation a
bout uniting with us to avenge the common
injury, and put an end at last to so many
perfidies i The period cannot be remote
v.'hen this mull take place. In faft, the
French will not lay down their arms, till af
ter reducing a government gorged with gold
and crimes, and (hawing the world that the
property of the universe (hall not be seized
with impnnicy.
The fame paper fays,
' The westerly winds that have prevailed
for some days pall, compelled the Englifli
fiigates to retire from our coafls and sever
al vessels have in donfequence entered port—
None, however, hav£ brought colonial pro
duce, and we are in great" want o r it,- The
scarcity in . our market is such that even
consumers will soon find it impossible to be
fiipplied. Hitherto they 'have not been
checked in their purthafes hy the price. If
unhappily we receive n« will
become of'us when our ftuall flock is ex
hausted ? The dread of a total want, con
tributes not a little to'fuftain ti:e demand,
i particularly of coffee, sugar, fptees, indigo,
■See. It has not varied fine'e our last quota
tion. but every appearance indicates a spee
dy rife."
The fcttefpubliflied yesterday refpe&ing
thelofs of Mr. Newell" Narlhe, is untrue.—
A Mr. John Gold, from Canada, and a Mr.
j Swedle, were the persons drowned.
This we have .from Mr. Narine's own
mcuih, who-informs us that the canoe up
. set in th« middle of the river—and that, he
j favedhimfelf by swimming tiUhereached the
(hore.. He saw the cocpfe <JfMr. Gold the
■next day, when the body of Swedle was
"not found-
NEW-LONDON, May 23.
The master of A fifhing boat on" Saturday
last returned: into port, and reported that
early in the morning near the east end of
Plumb-Island, he saw about on? mile dif.
tant, an armed schooner, mounting 10 guns
and full of men. Her courfc was then east
and appeared to have betn into Gardiner's
f Bay ;..* was then east of them.
' The information," trSe or falfe, excited con
siderable anxiety in this place, as capt. Ing
ham of the (hip.Pacific failed the day be
fore for India ; and other valuable vessels are
it*the harbour- ,At a time, when principles
established for -ages are - considered lighter
than a leather, when plunder and piracy are
systematized and foftered bf a powerful na
tion, when oiir coasts ai"e threatened to be
ravaged, well may we feel a coftfiderable de
gree of alar® at our defeneelefs situation.
A prayer, it is said, will be this week
forwarded from this city to the General Af
ftrmbly, that our harbour may immediately
be put in a "proper (late of defence. The
expente would not be very eonfiderable, and
it ishighlyprobable the debt incurred would
be assumed by the United States.
The security of tliis port is not only of
mpoVtance to the merchants of New-Len
don and Norwich, but to all others through-'
out the (late ; asin the eourfeof a year nine
tenths of the (hipping ,anchor here.'And the
truth cannot be concealed that at present
the smallest armed veflcl migbtcut Ihips from
their moorings (as at Charlefton)aud carry
them off with fafcty.
Thefignsofthe timesarealarming: dreams
of security will not protest us; If we expedt
protection from the militia, encouragement
most be given to those who ilo the duty ;
and the number of exempts mull be lessen
ed.—A million of liollars ha»e been given
by the (late for the fupportof Churches and
Schools : the belief purpafes. But our Le
gislators must do more ; the vineyard is plan
ted, and the wall to protest the frfrit left
proflrate. What will become of our beau
tiful fabric of morality and science,. reared
with so much care and expenee, when a fe
rocious and unprincipled enemy has rifled
us of our property, and independence ?
CHARLESTON, May 11.
On Wednesday the 9th inft, failed for
Philadelphia, the snow William, capt. Jchn
flon—Citizen Viftor Dnpont and his Lady,
and Harry Grant, Esq. were passengers in
the William. Citizen Dupont goes to
Philadelphia as Consul General of French
Republic, and carries with him the elteem
of a great number of refpe&able inhabitan s
of this city. He is indeed a good officer
for a'bad government.
Extratt of a letter from Columbia, dated
May 4, 1798.
u Yesterday a public dinner was given
by Colonel Wade Hampian, at this place,
*t which were a great number of gentlemen,
as well of the town and iu"»itinity, as from
different parts of this (late and Georgia.
Tke -communications from our envoys in j
France, was the gensral fubjeft of conver
sation, and among the whole, there appeared ;
to be but one sentiment or^opinion-upon
the occasion. Everyman fcen;ed to \hold
the conduft of the French in the utmost
abhorrence and deteflation.and unanimously 1
profeffed a determined resolution to support :
our governtnent against all foreign influence,
intrigues and attacks whatever : And this,
fir, you may rely on it, is pretty much the
opinion now, of people in general through,
out the country.
•Cfw
PHI/,AB RLP HIA ,
' SATURDAY EVENING, Mat 26
APPOINTMEW X.
Frederick William Lutzb, of Ste
tin, Consul for that port.
The information of Capt. Joseph Canby,
mujler-of the schooner Liberty, from Not -
folk in Virginia, bound to Philadelphia.
On Thursday last, the 24th of May in-
about 5 o'clock, P. M. I was chafed
by a .privateer, without colours, but wh'ofe
crew wore the.National Cockade of Fiance.
When (he averhaled me, and came along
fide, within about 30 yards, (lie ordered
me to hoist out my boat and go on board
her : but before I could do it, the man at
the mast-head cried out in Englilh a fail>
upon which the privateer left me, and went
in pursuit of the (hip in the offing and came
tip with her in about an hour and a quarter.
When the privateer came along-fids my
schooner, and ordered me to hoist out u y
| boat and go on board her, we were full four
' miles within" the Cape? of the Delaware.
The captain of the privateer spoke to me in
broken Englifli, with the accent of a
Frenchman. The privateer carried twelve
guns and appeared to have about sixty men
on board. Philadelphia, May 26, 1798.
I . JOSEPH CA.NBY.
Signed in presence of
Jacob Waoner, Chief Clerk in
the Department of State.
j. *—
The bill from the Senate providing inftruflioni
for the Masters of the armed vessels <■{ the United
States, passed the House this day—Minority, 40
A latter from Barbadoes, dated April 2Jj
fays, a brig from Boston, commanded by
Christopher Tildtn, and a (hip, called the
Nonpareil, belonging to New-York, Fan
ning, master, yvere captured by the English
and carried into Barbadoej the beginning
of April. The trial was to come on in
four days from the 25th.
Married—On Thursday at Friends' MeeN
ing, Haddenfield, New Jersey, Mr. James A.
Alexander, of this city, to Miss Hannah Red
mail, ofthat place.
Extract of a Utter from Bourdeaux, to a resec
table house in Boston, dated March 10.
" Our Commiflioners dill remain in Paris ;
it is said, that in one of their late conferences
with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, it was
observed to them, that their powers were wot
fufficiently extensive, but that they might
write to their government for such as were,
and wait their arrinul in Paris. We imagine
this is the adhial situation of the business. 1 '
FROM LISBON.
Capt. Treadwell, arrived at Boston, informs
that the Englvih fleet still lay there, but were
preparing to fail, defßnation not known, but
probably for the still further blockade of Ca
diz. The French army to the amount of
70,000 men were close on the bsrders »f Por
tugal ; an army was raising to oppose th»m.
POSTPHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED, days
Ship Lenox, Long, Coast of Brazil 84
Brig Two Sifters, Arnold, St. Croix
Schr. Elizabeth, Hatch, G. Town, S. C. 12
Little Betly, Inglis, Charleston n
Thomas & Deborah, Thomson, Wind
sor, N. S. 15
Sloop Mayflower, May, Baltimore j5
Mary Ann, Clark, Norfolk 3
At the Fort,
Snow Polly, Stukey, Jeremie
Selir. Regulator, Shockley,N. Providence 13
Beefy, Connell, Cape Francois 14
Experiment, Maxfield, St. Croix 12
Arrived last evening in 50 hours from Nor
folk, the fchr. Liberty, Canby, who informs
that on Thursday evening at j o'clock, Cape
Henlopen W. S. W. distant 4 miles, ard
helving a pilot on board, was brought to by a
French privateer schooner of 14 guns and a
b«iu 70 men, and ordered on board ; that
while he was being examined, the man at' the
mast head gave notice of a (hip heaving in
fight, (landing in for the Capes, upon which
capt. Canby was difmifl'ed, and the privateer'
made all fail after (he Ihip.
The brig Amiable Matilda, Brown, from
Bourdeaux, is below.
The French privateer commanded by the
notorious Love, is carried into New-Provi
dence.
Yesterday arrived the (hip I.enox, captain
Long, of Bolton—after a whaling voyage of
eighteen months on the Coast of Brazil. She
has one hundred and twenty tons of Whale
Oil on board.
Capt. Long informs, that he spoke the
schooner Pre/idem, in lat. 24, 40, Samuel
Pierce, master, out u days'from
and spoke the (hip Stag, John Kelly, master,
in lat. 30, 58, out 8 days from Norfolk for Ja
maica, with seven American vellels under
convoy: and in lat. 35, 20, spoke the brig
Nancy, of New York, out 4 days.
Aboiit4 leagues to the eastward of Cap'e-
May, capt. Long saw a French privateer fchr.
irt close chafe of a black sided and white bot
tom (chooner fc'hich he fnppofed was bound
to this port j being cut off from the land', she
tacked and flood to the eastward, the priva
teer following.
Arrived, brig Amiable K;tilda, Brown,from
Bourdeaux, 53 days. Capt. B brings no neves'
Left Bourdeaux, April 3, and the Cordovan the
7th.
On Thursday, under Cape May, capt. B.
was bro'tto by the privateer reported lafl even
ipg, and was on board of her some time. She
mounts 8 iron guns.
New-Tork, May 2J.
DAVS
Ship Two-Friends, Gardner, London
and Cork
Columbia, Harvey, Jamaica 28
Schr. Aurora, Beflom, Norfolk, 30 h.
Favorite, Walker, Richmond 10
Sloop Supply, Steel, New-Providence. 18
Rofanna, Corwin, Philadelphia
Baltimore, May 24.
Captain Tecklenberg, of the brig Men
' tor, 6y days from Bremen, in lat, 42 30,
long. 25, 20, spoke thefhip Ocean, of New-
York, Alexander Coffin, jun. commander,
five naonths from China, bound to Hamburg
all well.
March 28, in lat. 44. 43,10ng. 17, 12,
spoke the Maria, captain Billes, of and from
Philadelphia, bound to Bordeaux.
'• tforfbH, May it. t
On Sunday arrived the Genoese brig Sr.
Michclt f cajstain Ra?a'r3,"46 days froiii Ca
diz, with 3 cargo of wine arid brandy.
On the 4th of April; at two leagues di
flance from Cadiz, passed through the Bri
tish fleet ; was ordered on board the Thalia
frigate, Lord Paulet, commander, and af
ter some jittle detention, p-litely' difmifled,
and a certificate of the examination of the
papers granted on dcpiand.
On the 7th of May, in Jat. 34*30. long, .
61, 50. spoke the (hip Indnftry from Boston
bound to Surinam, out 12 days, all well-
On the 12th instant, in lat 35, 39. long,
68 10. was chaced by a privateer
brig, who had ling!ifli colours hoisted ; they
insisted on Captain Ravara\j-hoifti' g out his
boat and going on board ; supplied them
with some refrefhments at their requft, ani
obtained permi/Sdn to proceed, in confe-
of captain Ravara's being acquainted
with the captain of the privateer. They had
in company an American {hip which they
had captured, but would not inform hef
name nor that of the privateer.
A Danilh vessel, called the Prince of
Denmark, was to fail for this port the day
after the St. Michele
The news brought by this veflel is, that
the Prince of Peace has been displaced fron
the office of Prime Minfftef, and several
othe- employments ; and that a pafTage had
been granted through Spain for the French
troops deltiued against Portugal.
Alexandria, Nay 22.
On yesterday morning arrived the armed
fliip Smallwood, captain Johnttoc, belong
ing to this port. She failed from Martini
que on the. 34th of April, having seven fail
of American veflels under convoy. On the
26th, under the lee of D .minique, obftrV.
Ed a French privateer schooner take a sloop,
but not knowing to what nation the /loop
belonged, did not interfere. Afur the
privateer had' taken pofuffion of the Hoop,
(lie ft»od after the convoy ; but on the
Smallwood flacking fail, and firing ; gnn,
the privateer put about, got-out t<o fwefp
oars, it being almost a calm, made after •
her prize, which/he took in tow. On the
10th inft. the Smallwood parted With the'
schooner Exchange, capt. P. MVgruder,
also of this port, in 13 fathom warirjt then
blowing a hard gale.
Numerous have betfn the conjectures ref
pefting the fliip whiell is aitound to the
southward of the Capib.—TV lat eft and
most disagreeable accounts jvhiph bave.bee.tt
received, (late her to he the (hip Te- effee
' bound from New-York to this town, and
confignec to R. T. Hooe & Co.
Charlcfton, May 11.
ARRIVED DA A I.
Barijue Annette. Colzau, Bourdeaux 4_y
Schr. Alexander, Rice, Madeira 34
On Wednesday arrived tl.e Danifli barque
Annette, from Bourdeaux. The Annette
left Bourdeaux the ijth March, and t'hc
river the 24th, but has brought no news.
No news papers and only two letters (and .
thetk unsealed letters «f recommendation) '
were received by this veflel. Capt. Co'zau
is unable to give any intelligence of the fit-'
uation of t\e American comrniffiobers; he
barely knows that they were in France.
He informs that a few days before be
left Bourdeaux, a decree had been received .
from Paris, commanding the arrest of mas
ters and fcamen belonging to neutral veflels
—that it had been executed and that all
who, on examination, had nor protefiians ■
fatisfaftory to the agents of the Freneh Di
van, were kept in confinement as prisoners.
Hefaysthey have no idea of a war with
the United States or of the invasion of
England.
Eight or ten French privateers wrre cap*'
tured by British cruisers io the space of a
few days before he 1 ft Bourdeaux. ; two of'
them were new frigates of 28 guns, and a
third a fliip of 20, which had aot been out"
a week.
The Ship Belvidtre, if not foid or Char-'
tered before W«dncfday n.xt, \vill take freightfo/
Xondoq.
The Cargo of the Brig Minerva.
FROM BOURfth SiUX, , V
COM3 I ST I NO Of
Claret inhhds.and Cafe's V '■
Oyl, Capers, Olives, Anchovies and Prunes
FOR SALE BY <
7 homas Fitzfimons
may 26. " -
The following Certifitfaies
GF Filndod Debt anW Bank of United State®
Stock, were forwarded from England per
the Countefa ©f Leictfter Packet, in the nth*
month, 1797, which vessel has been captured,-,
and the Certificates supposed to bs loft.
4000 dollars pe> centi Stock* Handing op th«-
books of the Treasury, in the name of Bird Savage t
and Bird Certificate no 189, dated July 19th, '96;
Ten Shares Stock of the Bank of Dffitcd States,
in name pf. Miller, Hart & Co. of v London,
in one Certificate, N dated the ill.uay..
of January, 1,707
For the renewal of wklch Certificates, applies-,
tion is intended to be made at the Office of the
Treasury of the .United States, and at the Bank of
United States ; of which all persons interested
therein,are desired to taKe notice.
JOHN WARDER. ;
Philadelphia, 5 ma. 26, 1798.
aaw3m
Fox's Auction Room.
ON Tuesday next, at ten o'clock In th«»
morning, will be fold by is 11$ ion," a num
ber of articles in the Sadlery and CoACrf
Harness line —consisting of
Complete setts of Coach aftd Cha-*)
riot harness for a & 4 horses
Complete setts of Chair Harness {> finely plated
Complete setts of Furniture for )
like harnefi J *
Plated Bitts, Spurs, Territs, Buckles, Staples &c'.
Spur LeajheFS, Straps Bca
a L S O,
A quantity of EngLJh Waiauts
Capers
Sweet Oil
Coffee Bags
Glass-Ware
Looking GlafTes
bilver Watches
At the fame time will he foM
Six Bales of German Linens.
EDH'ARD FOX, 1 uilwnes.-.
may i» dt»Madras and Ventapaulem I
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries, |
the newest and mod approved patterns, entitled i
to the drawback, just received,
ak» for sals BY
Mex. J Miller Co.
No. 64, South Front street.
. may ,8. L.
CJ» IF Mr. Charles William Klcmeke,
Formerly of London, a:id who left England tor
some part of the United States ef Amsrica, in 1
the year 1796, be living, and will apply person
illy or by letter, to Mr. [ohn Carrere, in Balti
more, or to Meflrs. Tfaxe Ha/lehurft and Son,
in Philadelphia, he may hear of foroething great
ly to bis advantage. Any inform"' oll refpeft
ing the laid Mr. Charles William Klemeke,
would be thankfully received.
may 19 W
"** ' FOR sale: '
A neat Country floufe,
THREE and a half milek from the city, on
the Wiflahicon road, with seventeen and a
half acres of land, half in orchard and half in
grass.——Apply to Edward Boksall& Co.
in Doclc-ftreet, or to th£ subscriber at Mount
Pleasant, on Schuylkill, adjoining the premises.
Jonathan Willi ant.
N. B. If not fold before the firft of June, it
%ill not be for sale during the season.
may 19
Very Great Bargains,
ONSIS fINGof Table Linen, Scotch and .
India Muflinv, i*w felling off and well
worth the attention of Houfckeepers to make
..pur chafe of Enquiie of
Thomas Randall,
No. 88 Spruce-Jireet.
may 17
Military Colours,
PAINTEIt ON SlLK—by
George Rutter Ssf Co.
Portrait and Ornamental Painters,
IN a stile which will endure 'he hardihips of the
weather without injury, and which for neatness
axjd exa&itude of colouring cannot befurpaffedin
this city.
FLAQS and DRUMS
Furni(he4 with dispatch, en the moll moderate
terms.
Portraits* Ornamental Paintings, Signs,
fire-buckets, 3tc. accompliflied in that fupe«-b stile
of modern elegance, which, Mr. Rn ter pledges
himfelf from 20 years experience iu this city will
meet the entire approbation of his friends anol the
j^iblic.
In the Military Lin**,
A vaYiety of fpeffimen's may be' sects it their
"Painting Room, Morris's Court, bafck of tbeNaW
Library.
may ?
fil O T 1 C E.
HAVING obfcrved an adtfenifenlert of C.
Gull*g*'tf> in terms derogatory of our pro
fcflional abilitu ?, we havfe to request the public ,
pot to be impefed upon by foreign artists ; but to
<jecide upon the merits, of by a companion ot
the'work executed by both, as it is a mode almofl
pniverfally adopted by them to invalidate the ta-
Wets ef ellabitf&ed a¥tift», with a view of deceiv
ing the public, and engrolfing that bufineft which
their profeflional knowledge in no wile entitled 1
them to. Well knowing that public opinion mull •
J over n, we flatter ourselves that the workeiecuf- \
J by us will convince ihem of our great fuperio- (
ifity oVcr Mr. Guilager in every branch of-per- ;
trait and ornamental painting, and shew the neccf- |
of judging for thenifulves.
N. B. In fu'urc no attention will be paid to- th*
ffelf-flattcrirg'adveftiferilents of Mr G.
Any person wiftiirg a supply of FLAGS rfrid
"BRUMS wi'il please apply to Geo. Rutter and j
fco. Norm* Court, or Henry Frail**, Gcrmae,- !
toyn. .. m *y. 8 .*
Military Colours.
At C. GULLAGER's
Portrait and Ornamental Painting Rooms,
No. 50, South fourth, n-xt to Chcfnut street,
appotite th« Friends' Meeting.
PAINTING on silks for Military a-nd other or
namental purposes (in a man tit r peculiar to
himfelf) durable, not to be injured by the weather,
which for elegance of design, truth and betuty of
tolouring, r.eatnefs and mallerly execution, has
not been equalled by George Rutter and Co.
FUGS and DRUMS
Furnuhed with all poflilde dispatch, on themoft
reafonahle terms.
Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck
ets, Cornices, &c &c. executed in stile (not that
flile of modern elegance peculiar to G.R.)
.but iri a workman like manner, peculiar to an ar
tist mailer of hi? profefiion.
Mr. GoilaSer, from a number of year's expe
rience in Europe and thiscoumry, flatters himfelf
that profefiional pundiiajitjr, and reason
able demands, will meet the entire approbation of
thpfe-gentkmen who willpleafe to cjII at his Paint;
ng Rooms. §6w may j.
NOTICE.
P. S. Gentlemen in town and
country, wishing for a supply of Colours and
Z)rums, painted in a malierly manner, will no
<Joubt feel thenfelves obliged ior the kind cau ion
given by George Rutter and Co. not to trufl felf
flattering advertisements, but examine the work
executed by both parties One view will fat if
fy them where the superiority lies, —save thefpoil
ing of good silks by George Rutter's pencil—and
<jifcover the requisites for the contra<&ing talents
oft Henry Frailey, at Germ an t° w n may I®.
Forty Dollars Reward.
RAN AWAY, on the 7th of April,' a Negro
Man, named Qfafgow* perhaps he may pass
I>y the name of Ghfgciv Lee, or may change his
name ; he is aSout thirty one years of age, nearly
feet high, has a fear in the upper part of his un
4erlip,fa small part being bktcn out between the
middle and the co/ncr of his mouth (I believe on
the right fide), his left hand has hern very fore,
and wasfo at the time he ran away, by being burnt
some time pall : he is a stout, strong fellow, and
has been employed at a saw mill a tew years: he
went away in company with a negro woman o*
Mr. JoQ»uaLingoe,of this county. It is luppofed
they are gone into Delaware State. Any person
that secures said Negro Man in any gaol, that the
fubfciiber shall get him again, lhall reeeive the
above reward. LSAIE BAYLY.
Statu of Maryland, ">
g ft m-rfet County, r.pril 10. 3 mav a.— 4w
For Sale,
A Farm and Count at Szat,
SITUATED on the well fide of the Schuylkill op
pofue to Morris-town, feventecn miles from Phi
ladelphia—the farm contains *9s ac'esoflaud, 50
of which aie woodland, about 40 of m.?adow, and
the tell arable lacd. The houfc sjnd garden which is
large andell paled, fl-nd in the tnoil pieplant fitu
aiion, comirianding a view of ibo river, an iflanc
which is oppofue. and the villaae of Norrino»n—
Theie is a Iliad fifhery belongi g to the place —En
quire in Philadelphia, No. §6, Nartl* Third Street,
or on th# premise*.
April it ijawtf
t RIASORY DEPAktMEKT, |
MARCH i, 1798, !
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HERESY GIVEN,
(N curfiimnce of the A3 of C«nj;refs pissed on the filth day of July onctlto jfand seven hundredami
ninety-fcveii, estitled " An Ad laying duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", and the
A a pa!kd on the fifteenth day of Dec«aiber, «ne thousand seven hundred and njoety-feyea, entitled
" Au A A to pjftpoue for a limited time the commencement of the duties imposed by the Acl enti
tled " Ah Act laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and I'aper", that from and after the
firft day of July enf«ing, the f.veral Stamped Duties h«reafter enumerated, will be levied and collec
ted throughout the United Statu.
For every Ikin or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or (heet or piece of Paper, upon which (hall be
written or printed any or either of the inllruments or writings lollowifig—to wit;
r Dls CtJ. |Mh
Any Certificate of Naturalization, .... - 5
Any Licence to pradtice.or Certificate of the admiflion,enrolment vt registry of
any Coanfeilor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Prodlor, in ssy Court ol the
United States, ... - 10
Provided, that a Cerrfficite in any one of the Courts of the United States
for one of the said Officei, lhall so far is relates to the payment of the
duty aforelaid, be a fufficient admiflian in all tlie Courts of the United
States, for each and every of thefaid offices.
Any Grant cw Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United States
(except for lands granted tor military services) - "4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any such grant or letters patent, (ex
cept for lands granted for military services) - »
Any Charter-Party, Bottomry, or RefpondentU Boad, - - I
Any Receipt or discharge for or o» account of anyLegjcy left by any Will or 0-
ther testamentary instrument.or for any lhare or purt of a personal estate di
rided by force of any statute of diftributi»ns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren orGrand Children of the person deceased, the amount whereof thall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and lhall not exceed th« value of One Hun
dred Dollars, - - ' *
When the amount thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
lhall not exceed five hundred dollars, - - . "
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional futn of I
Any Policy of Infursnce or in«rament in nature thereof, on aay (hip, refiel or
goods insured from one diftridl to another in th® United Mates, _
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for winch
Inlurance is made (hall not exceed five hundred dollars, - ij
When the sum insured (hall exceed five hundred dollars, - 1
Any Exemplification, of what nature foover, that ihall pass the seal ef any
Court, other than luch as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furaifh for the use oft he United States or fame particular (late, - 50
Any Bond, bi.l single or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promissory
note or other n»te, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or oth«r obliga
tion or contria, made to or with the United States or any (late, or for their
- - - -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
If abn* one hundred dollars ana not exceeding five hundred .iolhrs, 15
If above five hundred dollars and no: exoßtding one thousand dollars, 50
And if above one thoufind dollars, 75
Pr.vided, that if any bonds or notes (hall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bonds or notes (hall be fubjea to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforelaid —viz. "
Tf above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 4
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five kundred dollar s, ( 10
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, so
If above one thousand.dollars, - - - - 30
Any Notes iflued bv the banks now eftablirtied, or that may hereafter be eltab
lilhed withia the' United States, other than the noies of such if the said Banks
as .lull agree to an annual corrtpagtion. of one per centum 011 the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders relpeflivfly, according to
the following scale. .....
Oil all notes not exceedisg fifty dollars, for each dollar, - &
On all notes above fifty dollars, «nd not exceeding out hundred dollars, je
On all notes above one hundred dollar* and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - - ' 1
On all ni»te» abo»e five hundred dollars, - a
Any Protest or other Notarial ail, .... ij
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid psjifioa,or to obtain drfell War
, rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military services
performed in the late war, - - .
Any Certificate or Debenture sos drawback of Cultoms or duties, for lels thau
five hundred dollars, - - - '
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, t
For more than two thousand dollars, ... j
Any note or bill of ladmg for goods or merchandize to be exported,
lif f.-um one diftriia to another difti iil of the United- St#te», scot being in the
fame State, - - - 16
I If from the United States to any foreigti port or place, - ii
| Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effiiU, made in any
ease required by law. (except in cases of goods and chattels distrained far
! rent or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share in any Company, of a (hare in the Bank of
1 the United States, or of aay State or other Bank,
If above t venty dollars and »ot excoedipg out hundred diallaris, - to
j If above one hundred dollsrs, - - • I »J
If under twenry dollars, at the rate of ten cents (or one hundred dollars.
' 11.
The dutiesaforelaid will be colle&od and received by the Supervisors, Infpei9ors aud other Officers
of Infpeilion, i* the several DiflriAs, Sorveye and Divi&ons of tjie United Mates, and by such other
perfonsas shall from to time be specially appointed and empiayed by the Supcrvilors of Diftrifls for
that purpose.
r r 111.
The Supervif.rs of the several Diflri&s will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and as soon as
may be practicable, mark or (lamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels of Vclkim, Parch
ment or Paper, with ar.y of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of the said duties j Or
(lamped vellum, parchment and paper n.aj at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rates prefcribcd bylaw, ly application to any Supervilor, Infpc&ar, Officer of [iifpadton,
: or other p«£o« appointed for the distribution as Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diftrid s
GIVl : . .V under my HauJ, at Philadelphia
tb* day and year tbontementimied.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Marcli 10. Secretary of the Trtafury.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
March 30 th. 1798.
Public Notice it hereby given,
THAT by an aA of Congrcfs pafled on the
19th day of March, 1798, the following
alterations and amendments have been made to
the adl pafled on the 6th day of 1797* en
titled 41 An a<£l laying duties on itamped vel
" lum, parchment and paper."
The (lamp duties on debentures or certifi
cates for the drawback of Cultoms or duties on
Imports are repealed.
Adifcount at the rate of seven and one half *
per Centum, will be allowed by the Supervisors
or lofpe&ors refpe<sTively, to any persons other
than Officers of the Revenue, who may pur
chase atone time or procure to be stamped, any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment or Paper, upon
which the duties shall amount to Ten Dol
lars or upwards.
HL
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold at
the rates prescribed by law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for stamped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional price will he demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each skin of Parch
ment, or Two Hundred Cents for each skis of
Vellum of medium size, which may be furnift
ed at the expense of the United States and pro
portionally for ahylefler quantity.
Given under my hand, at Philadelphia, the
day and yeir abo'vementionrd.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
To be Let,
(And possession given on the ift of May)
A genteel three story brick House,
XI feet front, and 40 feet deep, with Wack build'.ngs
and (tables,kt prefen,t in the tenure of Major Jack
son. Enquire at 187 South Third street.
April 2. §
JUSTP ÜBTISHED,
AND FOR SALE AT THIS OFFICE,
( Price 2j Cents J
Reflections on Monroe's View
OF TUE COVDUCT OT THE EXF.CUTIft,
As publisHed in the
GAZETTE 01 she UNITED STATES,
Under the signature of
SCIPIO,
In luj'ijjlhe Commercial Warfare of France is traced
to lie French Faction in this Country, as its Sturce t
and tie Motives at Oppf.liu;i % vJJV.
Just Published,
By W. YOUNG, bookseller, Second-street,
the corner of Chefnut street,
THE WORKS OF JOHN NEWTON*
LP N DON.
A new cdirion, in 9 v«|s. price j\ doss. neat
ly bound, containing letters of Omicron and
Virgil, Cardiphonia, review of ecclesiastical his
tory, sermons, mefliah, letters to a wife, Olney
hymns, and the life of Eliza Cunningharti.-r-
Each of these parts may be had leparate, and
fttch as have bcin with W. Young's
edition in 6 vols, may, by speedy application, be
furnifhed with the 7th, Bth and 9th vols, at a\
dols.
jilfoy lately Fullijhed
Baxter's Saint's Reft, abridged by Faw- dols,
cett, iamoat 1
Beveridge'sprivate thoughts, a parts 1 jmo 75
Christian (the) Parent, iamo 50
(the) Remembrancer, iamo 75
Chriftias world unmasked, do 62$ ;
Dickenfon'g (of New-Jersey) familiar
letters, iamo 87V
Doddrige's rife and progress, 18mo 50 a 6a£
—— sermons on education, 1 amo 44
lermona to young persons, do 624
- on regeneration, ißmo 81J
Davies sermons a vols Bvo 4
Home's commentary on the book of
Psalms, a 25
■■ ditto a vols Bvo a 50
a (work highly admired by all who have
bad the advantage of peruftng it,
Hervey Afpafio vindicated, lamo 75
Letters of certain Jews to Voltaire, Bvo a
Walker's l'ermons, with Blair's life of
the author, 1 vols Bvo 3
White's sermons, preached before the
Univerfityof Oxford, Bvo 1 50
Wynperfie on the trwe aid eternal God
head of our Lord JefusChrift, 50 a 68
Sacred Biography, or the history of the
Patriarchs, by 11. Hunter, 3 vols Bvo 6
A large afiortment of bibles, in folio, quarto,
iaino and pocket, at various prices.
A large allowance to wholesale purchasers.
Catalogues of books, with the prices ot each
book Annexed, are delivered as aforefaid.
may 17 aaW3w
FOR SALE,
A Black Man,
WHO has five years and a half to fcrve, is a
good coaehman, an excellent waitur, and
ha* been accustomed to marketing for a family—
his age about thirty two years. For fu ther parti
culars, apply it ths office *f thia Gaz«tlc.
may is. §
The following Certificates of 1
FUNDED DEBT OF TH E UNITED STATES f
OTANDING on the Books of the treasury, were
O forwarded tor London by the ship William
Pcnn, Captain Jofiah, which hath been captured, (
and the Certificates supposed to be 1011, viz :
3*64. Si. Deferred debt, in the name of Rev.
Edward Giddy, of Thredrea, in Cornwall, $
Great Britain, dated June 2, 1797. Certificate j
No. 10,072.
8021, if. Six per Cent. Stock, in the name »f
Edward Home, of Bevi9 mount, Hants, Great
Britain, dated May 30, 1797* No. 15196. ?
3620. 50. Deferred Debt, in the name of Will- j
iam Manning, of Ormlby, in the county of Nor
folk, in England, dated July x», 1797* No. *
10199.
30183. 73. Three per Cent. Stock, in the name I
of Jannet Mathew, of Upper Seymour street, j
London, Widow, dated October 31 1797* No.
11820.
For the renewal ef the above Certificates, ap- 1
plication is intended to be made at the f*id office of 1
;he Treasury of the United Stat**, —and allper
fons concerned aredefired to notice.
ALSO —IN THE SAME VESSEL,
Fifteen (hares Storkof the Bankot Ur.itedStates.in
the name of William Manning,of Ormfby,coun- '
ty of Norfolk, England, viz. Three Certificates
for five (hares each, dated January X, 1797*
No. 25982, 25083, 25984.
For the renewal of which,application is meant to 1
be made to th<t said Bank of the United States, —
and all persons concerned therein are desired to
take notice*
JN. VAUG HAN.
Philadelphia, may 4. §6w
The following Certificates of Shares
IN the North American Land Company, {landing 1
on the Books of said Company in the name of 1
Dan el Lifter, of Hackney, in the county of Mid- 1
dlefex, England—viz. No. 215J, representing
1309610 13105, ten (hares—No. e 150 —1306610
13075. ten (hares—No. 2149—*13056 to 13065,
ten shares—No. 2148 —11509 to 11518, ten (hares 1
—No. 2T47 —11471 to 11480 —Amounting to
Forty Shares, were forwarded for London by tke
(h?p Willtan Penn, which having been captured, 1
said certificates are supposed to be loft ; for the re
newal of which, application will bv mack to the
Board of th« said company.
Daniel Neal Lifter.
may I » *d6w
TO BE SOLD,
40,939 acres of Land.
IN Greene County, Commonwealth of Pennsyl
vania, on the waters of Fi(h and Wheeling
Creeks end Ten Mile Ran.
These Lands are fertile and well timbered, and
abound in Coal ; they weife fold ten years ago for
five (hillings per at re ; patented early in 1787, e
xcept 37« c acres, %hich were patentad in 179* ;
part of them were surveyed in 1783. The trad
is between the Ohio and Monongahela, ver/con
venient to water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of Wa&ington, from 14 to 16 from the
villag-i of Greenefburgh and WheeJing.
Oil payment of one lourth of thepurchafe mo
ney, a tcafoiikbie credit will be given for the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer,
tfe&l.ftl. $
TO BE SOLD,
2 <>,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of New York, between tfae northern
bounds of Pennfvlvania and the Safqaehtnna
now, or late in the townlhips. of Hamdcn and
Warrett and'county of Warren.
'1 heft Lands, from their quality arid situation,
are a very deferable obje& for any man who means
to invest his money to advantage.
Oa payment of one,third of tke purchase mo
ney, a reasonable credit will !>e given fgr the resi
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april 21. S
JUST RECEIVED.
And for faleby W.YoOngt corner of Second
and Chefnut-ftreet, M. £arfef tiß High-ftieet
T. Dubfon, 42 South Second-flrect and the
*> Bupkfeller9 generally,
r (Price 5-Sths of a Dollar.)
BEACON HILL,
A Local Poerrty historic and deforiptive s
6 By a Lady of Bojtwi.
ANALYSIS OF BOOK I.
r Allusion to the surrounding Profped— Invocation
to the River and fylvirn Deities—to the Historic
'» Mufe—Fi&iert discarded—Dedication to Wafb
ington—The Adion open* at the Retreat of the
Columbians from Bunker's Hill—General Howe
—The Memory of his Brother—Death of War
ren—Perfonification of Fortune and Fame—
Wafhingron at Mount Vernon—called to the
chief Command—Formation of thdColumbian
Camp at Cambridge—-Natural, moral, or poli
t tical Hillory of the fcveral States—Their com
manding Officers—Siege •£ Bolton—-Its Suffers
ings—Negotiation for the fafe Retreat of the
British Army—lts Departure—Appointment of
Congrcfs—'Declaration of Iwdepen^nce—Cha
j ra&cr of the Columbian Sokiies—The Poet's
prophetic Apostrophe to the Progress of Free*
Uom tfti ough»ut the World.
march 30. §
1 Bafkenridge—for sale
® TT confills of 920 acres, almost all of which ii
JL a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the late
1 Ecrl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which are bounded on the
Eart by the river Pafaiek.
Then* are on it a number of buildings, forming
afquare of nearly three acres—The dwelling house
is a very convenient fmallexpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard confiils of 1500 finabearing engraf-
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other parts of said
trad near 300 other Apple Tree*—as also a great
£ variety of other fruit*, particularly Cherries of the
l bed and most delicious kinds. *
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
l FcreHTreos, that add to the beauty and eonveni
l ence of the place. Its situation is abeut 18 miles
1 from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and 12 from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price i« five pound pr. acre
in ca(h, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T, McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chefnut treet.
February a. ro'itf
CANNON,
Musket and Pistol Cartridge Papers,
A LAROK ASSORTMENT
Is nozu ready for falc by William Young,
Bookfe'ltr,, No* 52, Second Street, the
corner of Chefuut Jlreet.
OK WHOM MAV BE HAD
Baron Steuben s Regulations for tie Order and Disci*
pline of the Troops if the United States.— To ivhicb is
added, att a£l of Cong reft concerning tie Militia, price
j 50 cents ; do. large prints 67 cents.
V/. Yoong,
Has for sale, on the Uwejl terms, for cajb or negociakle
- Notes,
Large writing, printing & drafting paper,
ALSO,
a Foolse.jp, Pojl, Folio aad 4 to. Post of various sizes,
d gilt and plain ; ink pozuder, fealinjr zvuk, "wafers, pocket,
- inkjiands, black lead pencils, quil'.r, rulers, cose* <f ma
i- thematical infrutnents, gur.ier fcaLs, parcLmcnt and ass
j Jkin memorandums bseks, pen knives, india rubber and ink.
j ma« iz stawjw
Walhington, Commissioners Office,
74b May, *7^B.
THE C*mmiflioners will reeciv« j ropciaU ui>
til the 20th of June next, for building in
the City of Waftiington, one of the Executive
Offices ior the United States, of the following
external dimenfions: —l4B feet in length, au&
57 feet 6 inches in breadth; cellar walls JO"
inches: firft story 23 inches; and fecood story iS
inches) partition walls averaging 15 inches ; to
contain on the ground floor 14 rooms ; fame num
ber on the second story ; and in the roof t rooml #
with a paiTage. Th« whole «xternal the build
ing to be of dock brick ; the inside walls oi feari
burnt brick ; cellars of best foundation to
the height of the girder* ; the outside walls, jas fat
as they (hew above ground, to the plißth, to be of
plain aftilar free-ftone 5 soles of windows, fills of
doorsand ftrfngcourfe, of free ft one. The house
to be covere i with cyprels shingles ; the rooms in
general to be 16 feet by 20, finifhed in a plain,
neat manner, of the best materials ; fix small
rooms to be groined.
A plan and elevati.on of said building, and bill
of particulars, are lodged in the office, for th»in«
lpe&ion of those who may win to contrail ; also,
a copy of said bill, at the office of Clement Bid
die, Ufa. at Philadelphia.
Proposals, sealed up, will be received until tUa
20th June next, on which day, the board will
proceed to contract with such person, as (ball ap
pear under all circumstances.to offer the best terms*"
Per order of the Conimiflioners.
THOMAS MUNROE, CUr*,
may 11. 2awt2oj*
Country Residence.
A FAMILY who live Six Miies from the City,
wilb to receive two or three newtvcl board
ers. The House is handfonwly iurmfbefi; the
Gardens, Maadowsand Lawn ara iaid.
out, and well (locked with the ch©:c<itt-.fcYujt.
There arefevera' Musical lnftrumsnt*, amoneft
which is a moil txceUent patent Piano l T orts. 1 he
Family have a handforre 1 Coach, which may be at
the service of the whole.
The Coach House and Stables are mofl excellent
—the Water good—and the Air unequalled in the
environs of the Town.
For particulars enquire at the office of this Ga
zette. dtf msy 16.
TO £E RENTED,
To a Small Genteel Family.
AWeafani House in Dock-ftrert, uca; Front
ftreet —Apply at No. 155 South Secoud
*treet. § vnay ly
Ross Simsoh,
HAVE FOR SAL?,
22 bales superior Madrais blue Cloths
Carolina lndrgo, fir<r qua'ity
A few bales Baf tas, Coffaes, and a quantity of
Bengal COIToN
B&ngal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
£*r nd } rum
april t $
Thomas & Joshua Fisher,
HAVE FOR SALE,
AtNe.s, Dock-(lreet,neav the Drawbridge,
China ware nankeen dining fctts, tea and coifec
cups and saucers
Nankeens, black fattins and tafti'ies
Ptjngcm cloths, choppah roaaalls, and bandpinnoa*
China and Emrlifla umbrellas,
Together with a general ajfortment of European
Goods— among which are
Scot 6 thread in boxes
6d. Bd. lod. lid and lod. nails
i Shot—T. Crowley (leel, Spanifti brown and whitt
lead
Eugiifti scythes 42 to 50 inches
ALII,
Hi barrellsof kiln dryed Indian corn meal.
A commodious StoreinDock-ftreet,,
No. 7, to be let, three stories high, fuitabie for
any bufinels. § 4th mo.^.th
For Sale,
Thecargoofthebrig American from Laguira,
CONSIST! MC OF
Caraccas Cocoa.
Henry Philips,
No. n2, South Fourth Street,
april 23 ! $
Frefli Teas.
"Jufi Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
Captain Cooper, from Canton,
And For Sale, bf
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Conjptiog House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet,
AND BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At kis Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
[ Bohea,Souchong,Hyfon, Young
Hylon, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO,
China Ware, afTorted -; black and ooloured Lute
> strings and Sattins, Nankeens, Cassia, large garden
■ and common Fans, fattin and lutettring Umbrellas,
whale-bocc flicks.
They have affo For Sale, «
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Hanikerchiuft,
French Cambricks aud Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes.
1 march §. §
i Now Opening,
At William M'La w s Saddle Manufactory,
No. 72, Chef nut Street,
A general aflortmeiit of Horseman's
I Pistols, dire& from the Manufacturers in London.
ALSO ON HAND,
' Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Covers, Light
Horseman's Caps, Swords, (partouch Boxes, Va
" lices, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather
' Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
j april 9 1 dtf
Notice is hereby Given,
1 r I 'HAT application has been made at the Bank of
X the United States, for the renewal of the fol
-1 lowing five Certificates of Bank Steck, loft by the
capture of the Britifli Packet, Couuttis ®f Leicef*
: ter—viz.
" No.j7oa,containings(hares"> IflTued to Henry Ca*
732 I do. ifiuad to Edwerds
aud Co.
5 do. illued (-in lieu of
65 c 9 10 6513) to Samuel and Henry. Vaddington.
292b 4 do. iiTued to Phyn, El
lice and \ng!is.
All pcifons concerned are therefore called upon
to (hew cause why new Certificates (hould
' ifTued agreeably to the said application.
April 14 coGvr
■ FOR SALE.
1 QEVERAL very elegant Situations for Sum
e O mcr Ketreats, three and a half miles front
the Court House, and 011 the Frankford Road ;
the lots will be made to fu t the purchasers.—
e Thafe iituations are conlidered in point of health
beauty aiid elegance, equal to any f;e u r the cityr
f and the road known to be fafe anil good at all
seasons of the year. The title indisputable—A
, plan of the grounds is in the hands of the sub-»
', who will make krvow'n the terms on ap
- plication co him at his office No. 124 South
r i Fourth Strett.
ABRAHAM SHOE MAX E£.
moj 2. 3:a\Vii'