ssW}ZttZ of t!jc JjbtatCS, % Philadelphia Daily Advertiser
Zfy John Ward Fen no, N°* iio Che [nut Street.
-—Philadelphia: Friday evening, December 1798. xiv.
ISUMBKi) »9 54-J L
cy The pries cf this Gazette is
Eight dollars f>er annum to Subscri
bers reftding in the city of Philadel
phia. All others pay one dollar ad
ditional, for enclosing and dire fling;
and unless fomxpsrfon in this city will
become answerable for the fubj'crip
lion, it mutt be paid Six Months in
advanceu
For Sale,
' w—T), THI SHIF
PACKET,
Hu lings Cow»«thwait, Miller,
BURTHEN about a,500 barrel., • good strong
IsJjip—has excalien' aeoonimodationsfor passengers,
may be sent to sea with fmaM cxpM.cc. She is lay
ing at Mifflin's wharf. For farther particular en
aooenf
Isaac Harvey, jun, or
Smith i< Ridgway.
November 16 s' l '
("T Said Blip, if not fold Oil, or before the sth
or Dre.mber.iniV will on that day.in the evening,
be offered lor sale by l>ublfe aaXion, at the mer
chants'* coffee haufe.
Smith Ridgway,
Isaac Harvey, jun.
dec. 3.
Jamaica Rum.
THE CARGO,
Of the (hip CHARLES, Captain Salter,
Fn in the North fi<ic ol Jamaica,
Near zoo hhds. of fine high proof
JAMAICA RUM,
Now Landing a: South (irett wharf.
peter blight.
C H TRL E S,
Captain Salter,
Coppered, mount twelve 6 pounders aruf'thir'y-
Sve men—returns immaJiately to Jamaica, for
Passage apply us above.
dec 17 dtm
For FREIGHT or CHARTER,
to any fart of EUROPE,
jT3ci The Swedilh Snow
-«lk MARIA,
H.txs Oiof Kock, commander.
A remarkably good vessel, about 210 tons bur
then. A freight to Cadia, or aHy part of the
Mediterranean woul Jbe preferred. Enquire of the
Captain on beard at Vine-Street Wharf
dec 17 §
For Sale.
r I 'HE Subscriber, intending 'o decline the
1 DRUG BUSINESS, odors For Sale, the
-whole 6tock of
Drugs and Medicines, Inftrumenfs, &i.
The shop is elegant, commodious, and fuffici
catly known sos the extensive business 1 one in the
wholesale and retail line ; the Gtuation equal to
any in the city, being at the cui ncr of Walnut and
Seeond ftrcets. The whole, or any part of the
Stock, will bo fold, as will best foit the purchaser.
The terms may be known, by applying to
JAMKS MOORE, juts.
. Wlo hat For Sale,
Well calculated for the river trade—
The Peggy, about 3otonsburthen,
Mu.lberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably
stout, of an easy draught of water, rigging its
good order.
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
well, and incomplete order forrhelumberbufiaefV
All persons indebted to the late firm ©4
GolJtbjrait & Baldwin, IV. B GolJtbivait, Golu
tbtwait 13* AT*are y or the fuhfcriVr, are earnestly
requcfted to make Ipeedy payMient to
JAMES MOORE, jbn.
*U£iist 3 §
BOSTON BEEF,
200 Barrel* in Shipping Order.
FOR SALE BV
JOHN SKTRIN,
No. 96, Aortb Froniflreet.
Who wants to Charter,
A GOOD STOUT VESSEL,
abont 300 Tons burthen.
HAS ALSO FOR SALE,
40 Pip«s of Madeira Wine, 3 years old.
nov at m 4 t
FOR WILMINGTON,
Nio rth-Carolina,
COMMERCE,
Captain Wood,
VVlLL M«' in freight 011 very mo
*-"®ScSß<n' J ''derate terms, and fail about the
•atthinrtant. Apply to the Captain on board ;;t
Latimei's wharf, or
Willings &f Francis,
Penn Street,
november 16 5
FOR SALE,
J- The fajt failing Schooner
S^PU, THREE SISTERS, '
is now ready to take a earjro on
nnaru, luppofed will carry 600 or 650 barrels.
■ALSO, A SMALL I«TO>CE
JAVA coffee, <
SaljeZl to drawback,
Enquire of
jr.HIJ HOLI.INGSWORTH W Co.
timber it Pe*„Str,et J
For New-York Bnjlon.
' The new and faft failing Sloop
ID EN T - pACKE T,
WMm. Jamb: Bk.iczett, mefler.
" tt'lLi. la.l with allconvenientfpeed—For freight
or paflagc apply to the m»fler on board, lying at
Chefnut-llrret Wharf
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
On board said Sloop,
30 bbls. of cod-oil. fmert qtulity
20 do. of heiring ard uiad
Few half do. mackrael
A small quantity of fmoaked herring
60 bbls. of w inter pears
5000 hunches of onions
4000 lbs. of sxcellcnt eheefe,
Philadelphia, die, rx
Ship Broker's Office,
And Ctmmi/fijn Store,
No. 1:9, South front Strfft,
Nest t'oor to she Cufiom House.
Subfcriber, encouraged oy tkc advice of
his friend*, offers his ferviee to the public
as a Ship jiml Insu r anct Broker. He propof
e< to buy and fell veflels and every thin;; relat
ing thereto—afiitt inaflert of vtlTels and others
in entering and clearing at the Cnftom-Houfe,
procuring and» (hipping freight, fettling Itrtiir
auce acd all i-ther mercantile accounts, and
have on hand the oeceflary Blanks and Stamps.
Papers in foreign languages translated, and in
formation given in general mercantile matters.
—From a knowledge gained by lons»experience
of every branch of business he hopes to be ufe
ful to thole who pleal'c tn fivor him with their
commands. SAMUEL EMERY.
November 19 $
For SALE or CHARTER,
THE SHIP
MOLLY,
Burthen 4100 barrels of Flour,
Philadelphia built, well found
an( j fitted, and may be ready
to receive a cargo in 2 few daye—(he is pierced
18 gnn«,and mounts ia new fix pounders, with
lmall arms in proportion.
, —'THS SHIP
DIANA,
Burthen 1,100 barrels ofFl*ur,
' Philadelphia huiit of live oak
| j=*l- t?' 1 and cedar, r» pierced for four
teen guns, tnd m nints ten new four pounders,
with small arms in proportion.
THE BTiTG
AMAZON,
Burthen 1,300 barrels of Flour,
1 " >mra 'New-England built, baa Utaly
been completely fitted, and may be ready for fca
in a few days.
Forterrosapply to
MCKUA b" GRIFFITH.
Who have for Sale
on boardfundry vessels at Marcus-Hook,
12,000 bufhtls of Liverpool fine fait
1,100 bulhels of coals
aB6 crates of queens ware assorted
7 tierces of bottled porter
10 barrels of coleothard pa'mt
4 do. of purple brown do.
a quantity of yellow ocre in calks
6 barrels powdered Venetian red paint
6 barrels mineral black -10.
15 barrels Spanilh brown do.
35 boxes el" pipes
89 b rfin } HAVANA SUGARS
j.jcolbs. prime cochineal
barrels New Orleans indigo
4 puncheons Jamaica spirits
ao bales of fail eanvafs
379 fhetts of copper, affcrted from 48 by 54
to 60 by 48 inches
Two tubs railed (till bottoms afTo-ted
36 fix pound guvs feet, each
il4 do. 4 feet, icwt and 4lb« eacn
JO barrels of gun powder
6 cases Manchester cotton checks
3 trunks muflihs ar.d (hawls
14 caiips dimities; and gi:igbamt
a 8 chefls colnurid na!>l(ee»-, mu'linefs, &c.
I i trunks printed calicoes
6 bales ot *hits and coloured eaffimefes
I bale of course woollens
English nails assorted.
Oflober 17. fri.&fat. tf,
AUGUSTUS FRICKE7
Woollen Draper "S 5 Men's Mercer
No. 1, south Third kr set,
HAS RECEIVED,
per the lall arrival frum.Eurnp. . j lirge assort
ment of the faihionabU: Goods in hit tine.
And las conjlantly for sale a general ajbrt
menl of
First rate London luperfine Broad
Cloths
Ouflimeres ,
Veil Patterns of all hind*
And every other article in the gentleman's line
by wholesale and retail.
decimber 10 ,j,f
~ R. l A IOR, ' '!
MUSIC PROFESSOR,
NO. 96, NOR 1 H SIXTH-JT.UET,
ESI'EC 1 tULLY iniorn s the Public that
IV he continues to tMch Ladies th« Fiano
Forte as usual.
Kov - 6. tuthsa
IV A N"T~E D 7
Convenient Ixxlgings, for. an elderly
Ladv, in a rrfpecSable private family, whtr'e
there arc 110 children. Enquire at thia office.
- dec « dm
NOTICE.
ALL persons indebted to the eftatc of JaMes
Thompson, of the Indian Queen, Fourth
street dafealed. arc desired to TTukc payment to
the Aibfirihert—-and those who have any demands
thjp fait! £tla*e, arc requcfted to fend in their
account? duly attefloi for fatlement, to
MARGARH r THOMPSON,") Adminirtratrix.
JOHN THOMPSON, j Adminifiratop.
nor. dim
FOR BREMEN,
ftvfc THK B&IO ]
' SPXCULp TON,
Auiip WisTiSfu,Masti*,
t NOW hying at Henry Pratt's rtharf, the firft
t below Rice Dreif—(Kc is a Bremen bottom ; two
hundred and twenty tons burthen ; will fail with
all po/lible dispatch—For freight or paffcge apply {
to
PRATT £sf KINTZING, • !
no. 95, north Waterflreet. ;
Who have for sale, a variety of
GERMAN GOODS,
VIZ.
Ticklenburghs Patterbornes
Oznabrigs Checks
Ilelfians Stripes
Drown rolls Slippers
Coffee bags Cam'^ricks
Platillas Twine
BrittJiiias Glaft tumblers
Eftopailles Port wine
y Creas ala Morlaix Window glass
Bielefield linen Brunftone, & .
DoroUs
I FOR LIVERPOOL,
C*flLn THI£ ARMED ship MOLLY,
foWjk Burthen 340 Tons;
5 flout well-fc»und ■vcfTel. Sheisnow
, to receive her Cargo, and will
-ft ' fp' fail on the firft epening of the river.
J Tnree-tuurrhs of her Loading being already pro
1. vided—for Freight for the remainder, or Paflagr,
. apply to
NICKLIN & GRIFFITH. ,
e dec. 13. tuth&t tf.
Massachusetts District.
BY virtue of a Warrant from the honorable John
Lowell, elq. Judge of the Diltrid Court for
th» Eiftrici of Maflachufrttt, " There will be ex
poled t* sale at Anilion, at the MarQial's Office in
Boston, on Tuclßaythe firft day of January n -xt,
at eleven o'clock : a certain Bex of Watches, lav.
Ed from the wreck of the (hip Corona, flranded
, at Cape Cod, and for which no claimant has ap
j peared—" said Box of Watches are to be fold for
y the paymetjt of Freight, Salvage, and other charg
] es, and for the benefit of all concerned,—viz.
1 t:„ b„. ") 40 Siiver Watches
F A C 37 Gold ditto
j 4 Papers Trinkets
SAMUEL BRADFORD, marflial,
of Massachusetts. ,
Dated at Bofion, ">
, Dec. 6. 1798, j 17 d«4 J
c t
i REMOVAL. 1
i
George Dobson, ;
JNFORMS his friends and the Public ia general i
that he has removed from No. ij .South Third S
• Street, to No. 9i,South fideof Maxket-ftreet, near
' the corner of Third Street, „ni is aow opening ]
1 a very exteofive affortmie&t t.f t
DRY GOODS,
SUITABLE FOR THE PRESENT SEASON,
WHICH HE HAS JUST *ECSIV»D, (
Per the fliips William Penn, Amiable, and Jane,
from London, and per Chefapeak and Thomas .
troin Liverpool, and will be fold low for cafli,
or approved notes at a (hort date, viz,
London 7.4 Superfine Cloths and a
Cafli ' errs falhionable colours
Yorkfliirc 7.4 db. and do.
Mixed and plain coatings
Welch flannels
Kerfcy beaver, for Spencers
Jeannets and Tabby cords
Velvet* a»d velvetteens
Velverets and thickfetts '
. 7, 8, 4 4 and 11 8 cotton and linsn checks 1
7 8 aud 4 4 bed tics 1
6-4 and 7-4 bed buuts i
London chintz and chintz furnitures \
Furniture cottons c
Do. dimities 1
. Purple and chintz ffiawle
Silk do. ,
Camels hair do.
Silk, cotton, and worded hose
Black and white crape
Tiffany aivd paper lans
Hats assorted in'fsull cifes
Umbrellas
Peelings and fattins
Laces and odgings
Ribbands
Silk Modes
Superfine French cambrlck
t'ambrick muffins
Do. threads
Pulicat and Madras Hnn '.kerchiffs,
And an elegant affortmcnt of
• Brussels and Wilton Carpeting.
November u
IHIRTT DOLLARS, ■
VyILL he paid for apprehending and lodg
■ , V .'"fc'/n-ny goalintl.e United States, the 1
following ceferters (rem the Delaware Sloop of 1
I \\ ar, tijs. 1 t
1 horn s Jones, seaman, formerly resided in c
Meade Alley, Somhwirk. light hair, fre(h com
ail(J blue t»i about five-feet nine inch- f
€5 high. y.
1 homa. Brown, ordinary Teaman, about five i
feet three inches high, light hair, grey eyes and t
lwarth)', about 22 years of ape. also,
<ichard Cu!ven, ordinary Teaman, about five
feet fix inches high, aged twenty-three years, 5
light hair, blue eyes and fwarthy.—Culven and
; Hrowi, are both natives of Philadelphia, and are -
, lnppeud to he concealed by fame of their ac
quaintance in this city.
DECATUit,
Commander of the Delaware 'I
Sloop of War. ®
•y«'7 S
The Subscribers have for sale, I
Malaga Wine, in qu.wter calks b
Red Port ditto, in Pipes Hhds and cjuartcr cnflcs I(
Ola Madeira ditto, fit tor immediate trfe (I
French Brandy j s
Spanilh ditto, (not colored) tl
Medoc Claret, in Cases „
Fir 1 fort Ifiaglafs
I new Cable, 9 inches \
1 ditto 12 inches t(
I new Hawfcr, 7 inches. J f t
Philips, Cranio rid SsP Go.
d « '7 3 ,
Just Arrived,
In the Brig from the Mediterranean, and
uowv at Walnut Street wharf,
Fourdi proof Brandy in Pipes.
BritufK.nc.
Anaffortment of valuable DRUGS,
CONSIST INC OF
Opiim, Aloes, Cantharidcs, Campliire, Senna,
Cremor Tartar, &c. Jcc.
F.ffencesof Lemon rnd Bergamot
Writine paper
Sweet oil in bottles and fhflts
Olives, anchovies and capers
Juniper berries
A L S o.—ltalian luteffrings
Satins v
Crapes
Umbrellas
Remaining on Hand,
St. Croix Sugars,
Claret in cases
Old Madeira Wine of the firft q> «liry.
JAMES YARD.
November 3 $
Bond tk Brooks,
Corner or Market and Sixth streets,
HAKE RECEIFED,
by the late arrivals from London, Liver
pool a< d Hull,
A LAJtCE AND GENERAL ASS'IRMENT OF
DRY GOODS,
Which they are now openirg for sale, at the mod
reihiced prices, for calh cr the usual credit,
nov 17 5
Old Madeira Wine.
27 pipes of < ld Loudon particular
MADEIRA WINE,
n strong iron bound Hambro' casks, for
ale by ROBERT ANDREWS.
Nov. jo. eodtf
JAMAICA RUM,
A Cargo now landing at South Jlreet wharf,
FOR S4.LE BY
PETER BLIGHT,
Apply at Stores on the Wharf,
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SAll,
BRANDY, iff and 4 'h proot
Madeira and Port WINES, &c. &c.
Nov. t. J dtf
NOTICE,
PURSUANT to a Reftrtve of the Board of
Truflees of Washington Academy, in Som
erset county, Maryland, autborifing William
Polk, efqr. majors Samuel Wilson, and
William Jones, Members of said Board, to
procure a principal tearher for said Academy.—
NOTICE ish&eay given, that a gentleman quali
fiad to teach the Greek and Latin Languages, Geo
graphy and the Mathematics, and such other
branches of Literature as it is customary to teach
in such Schools, will meet with liberal encourage
ment and itisprefumed will be well accommodat
ed in taking charge of this Academy. The build
ing is fpaci&us and will accomodate at Icaft Cxty
Students.
Proposals may be adUreffed to Jobn Dennis, No.
l6t Arch-street, Philadelphia | or to either of the
three gentlemen above-mentioned, near Pnncefs
Anne, Maryland.
dec 17 §
Genteel Boarding Lodging,
IN A HEALTHY SITUATION.
MRS. M'GREA informs her friends and the
Public, that (he is prepared to accommo
date several Gentlemen, wi h genteel Boarding
and at No. i 7, Filbert llrcet.
Nov. e8 d/f
John Dobbin,
ROOT iff SHOEMAKER.
RJtSPEC I'FULLY informs his Friends and
the Public in general that he carriesim his
business at No 99 Seuth Vtcond-Jireet, nearly op
posite the Merchmts Coffee house where gen
tlemen may be l'upplied iF< the neatefl ar.d best
manner —heaffiires ."hofe who mav pleafeto fa
vor him with their commands that no attention
or exertion 011 his fide (hall be wanting to render
him worthy of their encouragement.
N. B. Orders received will be punilually at
tended to.
November 5 $
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands against
the eflate of the late William Clifton,
deceased.and who have nouilready produced their
their accounts, are refuelled to fend them to the
fubferiber at no 174, north «e«on3 ffreet.
ELIZABETH TUCKER, Adm'x
Philadelphia, nov. 29, 1798 m&th4w
JOHN SHIELDS,
BROKER,
Embraces this opportunity tc present his thanks
to his fellow-citizens for their pafl favors
ant! acquaints them that be is returned from
Chelnut Hill, to bis farmer rejidence, the
HouJ'e Ao. ti Chelimt between Front
and Second-dreet,
WHF.RIi he holds himfelf readv to execute
their commands in everv branch of his
protefiion, trufiir.g that from arefidence in this
city of years he has it in his power to render
them essential ferviee, alluring them that his
commission (hall be as low as any in 1 own.
Lotts, Lands, Houses, Vessels, Certificates
of every description and Bills of Exchange,
bought arid fold, thedocketts carefully exam
ined and clear titles made upon the (horteft no
tice, by the public'* hamhle servant,
Job* Shields,
dr Good negotiable Notes discounted
it a low premium.
November 7 3 awtf
FO R S A L £,
A Tan-Yard, with about thirty two acres of
Land, at Rock-Ran, on tile Head of the
Tile water a£ SuApichannah, in Harford county,
Maryland, wi reon is funk feveftry-five Vats, a
Sto<e Mill and Tan House, with conveniencc.'ef
Water and other neceffarios for an cxtenfive Yard,
a Dwclling-Houfe. Kitchen and divers other ufeful
building is ereilcd thereon, some of the laud, in
lots well improved, a good Herring Filhery on the
(hort. '1 he improving lown of Havre dc Grj;e,'
is about fix milesdiirant and vessels coniinr down
the River, pass clrtfe by the premises. A coiiv:-
Pterit fituHiion to get Bark, a flock of which with
the utcnlil, fjr Tanmm;, aud all ths hides in the
Vats may be h»d with the Yard. Fnr term.ip. ly
tojohn Wilson, near Harford Town, or the »i,b
, fenber on the premiles.
f$AAt Wl£jSON,
r:ihmo. 14th aaw:w
NOTICE.
d
■ Tift COPARTNERSHI»O» »
HUDSON YORKE,
is tliir day diflolvrd by mutual ronfent. All per«
. foils indebted to faK firm are requested to mak<
immediate payment —»-«d those who hive any de
t mands arc rcquelled to present them for fettlesicnC
to WII.LIAM HUDSON, who is d«ily autherifad
to adjust the I'atne.
WII.LIAM HUDSON,
SAMUF.L YORK.E.
WILLIAM HUDSON,
NO. 54, KOUII HONT ITJtIT,
Ha* for sale on the terms, a very
extenlive aflbrtment of
DRY GOODS.
Due. 10. ?«.
FOR SALE
By the Sub/cribers y
ON VEAY LOW TERMS
WAX CANDLES,
or A SUPERIOR QUALITY,
Either by the iingle box ot 241 b*. or by the quan
tity.
Wtilings & Francis.
Nov. 24
jro tic e:
ALL Perfnns indebted to th« Estate r.f d <i -
tor Hugh Jlodj;*, dereafed, sre requeued
to make immediate payment —?nd those having
demand* aga : nft the i-Iflate aredei'red toaiitlien
ticate jr.d picfent thrm to.
MARIA HODCE, admlniflratrix.
SAMUEL HODGDEN, odminijiratcr.
nov jo A
r Notice is hereby Given,
THAT application will b; made aj the Trea,
fury of the IJtl'ed Staves, for the renewal <>{
the following cer-iScatrs of l anded Debt, stand
ing in the name of Robert Whitworth, of Cheika,
f London, thefaid Cettiflrates haying been forwar-i
---• ed by the (hip El lice, Haryi y, from London for
New-York, captured by the French, and l'uupofad
to be lo*-.
No-11437, 6 Per Cant-Stock, dated New-
York, 18th April, 1-196, Ur Dollars. 1481,47.
No. 8171, 3 Per Cent. dated New-York,
18th April 1796, for Hollars 400.
SAMUEL MILBANK.
sovember 18 <)6w
f Notice is hereby Given,
j That application will be made at the
j Bank of the United States for the renewal of
B the following certificates of Bank stock, (landing
_ in the name of Hodgfpn Atkinlon of London,
_ which were loft from on (ward the Swallow Pac
. ket, capt. Kidd, captured by the French, and afl
r persons concerned aredefiredto take notice,
h No. 2474, iflued in lieu of No. 1891,
- 1892, 5662 and 16640, for 4 (hares.
No. 3020, issued iu lien of 11055, a "J
* H057, for 3 (hares— 7 shares.
' THOMAS MEUEN fisT Co.
i. Nov. 38 djra
« JAMES & RICHARD SMI IH,
HAVE this day returned from the country to
their SI ORE, No. <4, South Fiwit ftreot,
where they heve for fa le, a. usual, a large and gin
natal aflbrtment of European and East-India
' DRY GOODS,
e mod oi whirh have now arrived ami are landing,
from the different veflels, from Hamburgh, Lon
-5 don, Liverpool and Hull.
rhcir Cuftomcrs by applying will find almost
every article generally imported, afld at as lo\*
prices for cash or credit,a# they can be had else
where.
N. B. A few Cases of Nurenbergh TOYS, a
confgnment, to be fold by the cafe only.
Philadelphia, Nov. i, 1798.
•-Englilh wrought Naita "
\ I inserted in the Jhips Molly and Diana, from
LIVERPOOL.
1 400 'Calks of Nails,
/~i ONSIS I 1 Np of 6d, Bd, iod, 11J, and
iod, flat point, suitable for ibe southern
market— iod, nd, and sod, finedrawn
lharps alio 2, 3, 4, and 6 clouts— sprigs—-
. lucks—(supper nails—fhc.ithmg naife,
I ro* SAi.g ay,
t v Robert Denifoti, junr.
1 "7 Market-street.
\ For Sale,at the Stores of the Sul>
fcribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
195 calks of nail? afl'oricd
10 bales ef lail canvas?, from No. I to 8
S3 calks yellow ochre
• | tirrces bottled porter, 6 to 14 doz each
London particular }
Teirpnffe do. in hogfheadsand pip
Old Port do. in hhdj.
Empty Claret bottles
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Muflinrti
afToned for yi e Wes-India market
4, 10, and 9 inch cablesand 10 coiTs of cordage
Writing fiates, ink stands a.id preffts
9 2© purcheoiis Jamaica rum
s I bale feamrng twice
r 160 bundles iheatbing paper
tntklm Cj* Griffith,
s * pril 1 tuth&f.tf
TO BE SOLD,
PURSUANT to the last will in d te!lamert of
Micuail CATTs.deceafed.a vslnabl,.-
Plantation & Tradt of Land
J containing one hundre 1 ard fcveniy three acr'ea
the Tefiator's late reOHmcr, C.tuatcd in Hon?
Sufquehanna Hundred, Ceoeil county, Marvland
about three mila- from the tide-water oi Sufque
hanna, and at a convmicnt dillance from f«veral
r plac.s of vvcrfbip of Friends ard Prcftytereans
. On the premif,, ate a Tan yard and eonvenien
belonging thereto, good repair ; a dwelling
i hou [ i ' l,ab)e ' orc hard aad oth r
f w ' f re'. 1 or tS acrc! "fgood Watcrej nwaa w, and
a Efficient proportion ol raluaMc timber.
, For terms apply » 0 the f»l ItVi-er, in
, tingham, about 3 miles from the prrmifts
; ~.K THOMAS WARING, Executor
j nth mo. iith, 1798
Insurance Comply ofibt state of PenZtf
-I'(2ni£K
THE STOCKHOLDERS hereby Boti fied
that an elation for thirteen Director, to lerve for
one >ear, will be held ,i t the Company's Office
j. James s. cox, President.
sr' 4 '
Ij'ust Publijhed
BY THOMAS DOBSON.
At the Stoce-houfe,no. 4l,fouth Scconu-f.reet,
PmnoiLfiru,
ENCTCLO PJED I A ••
r>ICTI O N A R Y
07
ARTS AND SCIENCES,
AND
MloQF.u.aOTous literature,
On a riAN entirely NS.tr.
Br WHICH
THE PIl-FE!" EN r SCIFNetS AMD ARTS
Art Hitothc Form of DiU'nft
Treatises oa systems:
comprehehding
("HE Hiftwjr, Theory, and Pra&ke, of ea.h,
according to the latest difirovprio and improve
ments and full npUnaticm given *f the Variout
Dttaclti Parit of Knotrltlge, whejier relating to
natural and artificial o* jeits, nrto matter* ecdefi
aftiral, civil, military, commercial, &c. lnclad
iog elucidation of the inclt important topic* rela
tive to religion, morals, manners, and the <rt*no
my of li e: together with a description of all the
c-iußtrie«, cities. principal mountains, leas, rii-ert
&c throughout the vorllt a general history, an
cient and rrcJirn, of the different empires, king
dom* and (late.; and an aciount of the lives of
the molt eminent j.erfon« in evtry nation, Irom
irft age» down to the pn f-nt timet. Com
piled from trie writings rtl the belt authors, in fe
veral la-, guage*; the mod approved diiftion iries,
at well ol g<rer»l fcicyeeasol particnl?r branch
es ; the tr:ir.fa.3ions, journals, and memoir". of
learn dfo:i' ti;s; the MS. lectures of eminent pro
ttf.'or, on different eiences ; and a variety of ori
ginal material*, furniiked by an exter.five corre
fpoHc'cnce.
The work i, row completed in eighteen large
quarto volumes, i!lbi. rated with five hundred and
»orly-t>vo Copperplates.
■» he few copies which remain on hand are of*
itred for iale at
1.15 dolors forthe 18 volume* in hoards
I'll dollars neativ bound in Ihccp leather
180 dollars hound in Calf
tOJ dollars ill Ri:fiia or Mffrocco.
r. d^Tbson,
HAS JUST or F. HEX) A
SUBSCRIPTION.
i'or Pijblifhin>j' a Suppfcnitnt to the Work
1 he ohjrit ot which is to correct such mif-ilate
i.icms uluit b en foun : 111 the \('ork, and togive
■1" account ol the rnoft important difcovertes and
i ..rrovrment4 which have been made for the lafi
ten years. 1
It I* expected this supplement will cotifift of :
three volumes, on futh paper and type as the En- j *
• (lupcriia, at Sit Dol:ar? pervoiume, in boards,
ti l D-'llmof which tube paid on fubfcritiing,
f dec ij aawiw
A SHORT AND PRACTICAL
ESSAY,
ON
FAR ]\l I N G :
81-ING the experience of a farmer of about futy '
y urs r.f a™c ; n'a forty years of which were spent
in England. UTex county, on Ja' d where (arming •
ii done ui tie griatelt perfect ion ; and rearfeven i
year* on three hutdrcd and twenty acres of worn- j
cat laid in I'ottfgrove and Alloway creek, in i -
S ileni county. Wefi-Jetfcy :
Shewing the means whereby these worn-o'Ut J 1
,»n'U >nay be improved ; and that the means arc
it 'he poWer of almost every farmer:
Ptinted for the Author, ,
AND SOLD J
BY ZAC HARIAH POUESON, f«
Chefnut-Jireet, Philadelphia
N. I*.—Simc ol the large fort of Cldver feed /•
rr.ij he had at \lr. John Cooper's, baker, no. 151 _
Uace-ftreet. ' *
december 13, law4W
Delcware & Schuylkill CauaU ~
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that the r
Eledion for PreCdent and Managers, for the S
enfairg year, will beheld at the Company's Office, co
■A. lc firfl Urond day in January n«*t, at ten ,[
c*- ock in the forenoon.
Susquehanna C 3* Schuylkill Canal.
iHI! Stockholders are hereby notified, that the u
T;"i; n for Prefidrnt and Managers, for the enfu- l
' f ye*r, will ba held at the Company's Office, on ?'
'.h.- nrU fecoud-cay in Janmry »cxt at ten o'alock .*!
v. a. tjl
GEO. VVORWALL, fec'y
to Delaware & Schuylkill Canal Compar.y.
1 9 , .ite _
Book-Keeping.
Pe
Wants a Place,
IK AN ELIGIBLE
CO MPTING-HOUSK or OFFICE,
iv I'l ttSON that Writes well, is a Ready Reck- A
■ * oner, a praitical 'ioot Keeper, and can be x.
u?li recominended, a line, (or personal applica- Hie
•innj . :.-cclcd t« M. No. 71, North Seventh- plci
ttve :. bj duly attended to. spa
N. li Encks cloftd, and new Accompts open- Fou
r !, i'.ittSßrlhip Accompts adjuded, or any buCnefs
i:i t.'u Kot k Keepirg line, done at the above place,
cii*abroad of Evenings.
■l'.-- 1 s f
A B Jlj f nine o'clock latl evening, a white man ! < ' rfl
V c*:ne into my store, and requefled me to ad- J for 1
v_;icchiiu a few dollar* on a CandUflick which
?L V r> to l>e silver. Prcfuming he had not got
tinner!)'. I alked him from wham he received it,
iid at the I .me time called for afliftance.iutcnding [S
t ■ tti-jic him, but he direflly made his efcspe j s
y ptri-m who prove it to be their property, y
t,.jy have it 011 paying for this advertisement, to , n
THOMAS BROWN, ch"
Corner Stamper's alley, New-Market. perf
_ fjt 11,
UniTtn Statts, 7 y.
t'.i I'fylvania Uiflridt. ) •*'
NO I'ICE is her«by given that in pursuance of a
wit to me directed, from the Honorable
t .ic!iaru Pritas, £fq. Judge of the Di(lri&
0 urt of the United States in and for the Penn-
Ivania will be eapofed to public {ale I
. v So. II? in SafTafras (trect on Monday the 14th
\y of December iaflant, at 1* o'clock at noon, " fff
2 Hogsheads and
2 Barrels of Spirits. d,
' br fame having been libelled against, profccuted
tondtmned a* forfeited in the fatd Court.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Mjrflial. \
Officf, IVg, Ijtk, 1798. £\
Ready Fir n't/bed Jpjrtmcnts. Gene
fylya
TO LET, KCADY TORNISHED,
A I'ltONT Parlour ar.d four chamber*, wirh C
' \ the ule of a Kitchen and Cellar, in a to . r V
t Jtant »art u! Arcn ftrnt; enrjuirtf :it the office 1 •'
• tm* avc
•J. U. —A» the furniture u all n«w, i; preclude
-1 r .-)>i>rcb.ulion ol co.it.'g on fro.T. tile iite pre '
''■" A ,
t'\ ■»>. rll * L eodjt Lec
birORTF.D
LV THE LAST ARRIVALS,
Superfine, fine r.nd coinmoacloths
• ct t i Swaodowss
P.3!Z i
Velverctf*
Printed calieo ■
Furni:nre & fauty dimities
Hairrftbands
; Sewing silk
' Bruifeli and Persia caipttts
Buttons
For sale, for cqfh or credit, by
SAMUEL MERRICK,
no. j43 Arch flrcet.
'' r.ov. r6 §;Jant
Is ; FOHTSALE,
■st nc. 9, South Watii-Stsht.
es hi Ijifh Linens, 7-8 and 4-4, weH
rr.vc- aflorted, in whitle and half boxes
arimn Checks, in ditto
ng to Drogheda'*, ai d Brown 7-8 beetled Linons
cicfi- 'rift Hackled flax
clad Seotts Tlirvad
rela- Men and Women* Comb*
r»no- Ruflia Puck, of an excellent quality, and
lithe joo hhds. Aux Cayes Molafll-s.
; i " r ' By ISAAC HdRVET\ junr.
j.Tllh. mo. 17 d 4 w
e'sTf ~ THE FORMS,
from A S prefcribeit bv th'-ComHi lTisfcrrt <;f Pcnn
:nm- I'ylra iia, for'the return of DWELLING
"fc HOUSES, LANDS and SLAVES, may be
' . had at
, C ,f J°f e ph James Cruckshjtik's,
pro- No. 87, Market Street,
fori- Dec. 10
LOST"
ar?e A BUNCH OF KETS,
I and RE f'URN them to No. 7, South Fourth
Street, and be rewarded.
: Dec 20 dtf
Just Puhlilhed,
AND IS KOW offessd FOK SALI BT
B. D IVIES,
At No. *B, Hig)i-ftr«et,
THE AMERICAN REPOSITORY,
AND
ANNUAL REGISTER,
For the Year 1799 ;
'rk Containing c mplete an i correit lilts of the
ate- Executive, Legislative, and Judiciary De
?ive parnnents ot the General and Slate
"y Governinenls
' a ' ( A treat variety of ufeful Tables, neccfl'ary to be I
ku « n in every Stare of the Union,
j Emielli/hed urith a handsome engraved Fron■ I
rds. tifpiece.
Dec, j I
- nrrsTf'Li N ENS,
4-4 iuid 7-oth White Linens wclK
\ Entitled
3-4 Brown ditt» ditto C to I
.1-4 Irilb Checques fpitable for the \ Drawback. I
Weft India Market.
"7 FOR SALE,
:nt , On reasonable te«Hi—by the B.x or Bale, 1
By Gamble & He-lmvth,
No. 148, South Sccond-ftreet. | <
Tn" : _ t -Vawtf ,
i No. 128-, I'
'r t The foutk eajl corner of Market and Fouth J
J A C.OK"L OX, K
TTAS just received by the late arrival from 1
JL i liurope, a large, general and elegant ai- I
lortmenr molt
rd • a^l ' ona ble Merchandize, J 1
(in the gentlemen's lir.e)—The whole of which
will be cilpofed of, wholelate and retail, al re- I
diiced prices for cafb.
" <lfc ' '9 2awtf
Genteel Boar din? iff f.odrirr. a
Q E '*R 'TE ind ready f.rnKhed aoartments
V wnh genteel Boarding and L'o'g.r g for the ac
> common,ti-„ of four Gentlemen (wnh their Ladies I
■n if reqm.ed) may be had at No i« 3 , Acb Street.
Dec - Tcifa
1 o be Sold,
Tie time of a flour heilthy Negro Lad, aged
about 17 yeart, and boond to serve until ii •
d he is honest, underftaoii the t.fml bulWefs of a
family, ani ha« beei accuiiomed to wait on Iso
table—Apply to I CJ
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN, Ji
1. , , No. 41, Arch flrcet. *r
decwßber i 9 t d6t th
FLOUR, FOR SALE,
DELIVERABLE at New-Caflle or Port pr
Penn, by I fa,
LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH &SON
~Jf c d 4 w I
TO BE LET, "
- A NE AT,convenient twc-.lory fra ne HOUSE
e £\ and BAKE-HeUSE, fituatcd in fou:h E.urth
- ui eet,below Gerw.n llre.t—Thehoufe isincom
- plete orcer, having two roams orv. floor, with a I
fpacioas garret; the lot !. ! 9 J.» | eet front so
• Fourth flreet, and in I.a feet deep. I „
5 Apply to I H
CHRISTIAN BETZ,
„ . . co >.'s» M*>erry-ilreet. | 1
, . A * 'he property belorgs to orphan chil- an<
' ' fo7"he ,"«? a,go ° d fcCUri: »
Philadelphia, deeembef it, 1708 *raW3w
notice:
QAMUEL RICHARDET, inform* the Gentle- j jT
y men Subfcnbers, that the £JTCH AN G K i~.
P° r w th r Cir recc P ' on ! » nd «•>' CI T r Bri
,j * N < Gentlemen and Travellers and
P^ m . prmg " "Edition of twelve Bed wil
Chamber, to the fide building, which make, it in,
perfectly convenient. H , :
■ovemht r 6 .
chaw pre
A capital Hand for Burmefs.
TO BE RENTED, ry
AND *O*3ESSION GIVE*, 1
T-HP °" lbt } th *" J Har
I HE commodious Four Story Brick Houfeon «on,
the ioiith fule of Market, near Water- pre!
V pr D ° ccu f ;ed 1 Tavern, by Tho- lets
° rd<
z
Tut cr rDiroaj~ ~ beap
Of JOHN M'DONALD, Uy»
A 0F *»'Lao*i»hia. take
RE hereby notified, that applied, t. P
1 i»K'l J ,°r of r Com c mo s lor the county of
Philad-lphia—for th. bene6t or tha Aot of the Nev
general AffemWy, of tbo Commonwealth of Pern- Fror
fyirar.,a, providing ihat the perion of a Del tor
Inall not be luhic to imnrifonmrtit for dfht a^tr
delivering up I „ tor the benefit of his'ercdi- \
t.vs. See—palled the 4ti day, ol ..p r l , an . o do P , A
1798; anj that the Juigti ot ui<l C««rt I
have appointed the fcc.ind . la y , J'"
Jaauary ,„*< for a heanr.g „f , lld iohß M'D' .iaW "T
and his Creditors, w..ere you may attend "
JOHN M'DONALD Jollß
I-"""
Canal Lottery, No. 11.
Will re-. 3nwuw drawing, on M.uJax,
iths tle '/i r ,f January nsxt, uM con
tinue until]>
I'ICKKTS to he had U.ilUr.tarli, at
WU.UA.M BLACKBURN'S Lottery
ir<rl Jji'okcrj nfii'e, No./14 South Sp*'nnH»Bfrtt»
wherr i lutkhinbirt io pt tnr regiflwng :n< '
rsrtn : iution «r Tickets in the iV»ve, Oily of
and Patterfn I.ittri ic, k-.
St.'.ti oi thi Wheel.
One prize of io,oco dollars io,cco
Five 4.0"® zo,or*>
y Two Sj'jca 4,0? >
Two i,ico ».oco
nt Ten 500 .?-c o ■
Twenty-.'even lei s>4°°
With a fuJJ proportion of the one'hundred
and of the fiftv dollar prizes—The Lottery is
ircH more then two ihirds drawn an 1 above Ij.rco
dollars richer than at the commencement.
£2" Note, the liiiliiicls of a Broicr duly at
tended to in all its branches. tu.ft.
Nov. i>
Dancing ScHOoi.
[. T X TSIXJ AM WPOUGALL presents hk rtf-
W peAfu! compliments to the public : t.-kes
the liberty of informirg th'tm, that at the requelt
—— of mar.y of his former employers, te will open
hi* School, at his Ball Room, in Fourth, bec
rnn- ween ChcfnutanJWalmit f"rt-et-,oii the fird iVlon-
NQ day of D«eem')cr—For l.aiiies at ten;
, [j C o'clock in the morning—and far GcKtleineu> ?.t
fix in tVe evenings of i\loudays, Wcdntfdays and
Fridays.
' nov. iR roim
, t Ephraim Clakk,
~ CLOCK W WATCH MAKER,,
Coruerof Front and Market Aretts, Philadelphia,
irtb has just keceived,
BY the different r rrivals, a fupplf of Clock
t and VVa:ch makers and Silver Smiths Tools,
Ales and materials,
consisting or
Rowling Mills, large and small Bench and Hand
Vices, Turnbenches Flyers, Sliding Bra
ces and Birrs, to«ls, Saws, Scratch brtlh
e-, Blow pipes, Screw and lit aw pla'es, large and
1 ' fruJl Hammers, Clock dials, rail hraf» BclU, for
ged w«rk a"d pinions, E nery. Rotten lloiie, Pu
mice flone, Borax, Spelter Sorder, Brass, sNrl and
j Iron wire, (beet Brass, mail fpringi anl glu'Tes
the I and ftcel chains, seal» and keys, icc. &c. ]
- J and Watches carefully repaired
I nov. 2i eodrf "*
lbf J Hats SfJ* Holiery.
Sb- WILLIAM M'DOUGALL, '
AT HIS STORE, ,
I No. 134, Market Street, 1
I tJAS JtIST OPENED, in addi.ion to his for-
I "> r r Hock, a very cxtenfivc afTortment of i
I Men's, Women's, and Children's Hats, and all '
I kind* ot Stockings—particularly a quantity of A- t
I berd een knit Hose, suitable for »hc prifent season t
" ov - rortn
Notice is hereby Given, c
j I 'IIAT application will be made at the Trea- c
I -*• Ijiry of the United State* for the renewal 3'
los tV.e following certificates of Six per Cents, tl
I '""tided debt—(landing in the name of Robert
I H iljoa of Calcutta in Bengal, Surgeon in the p
I service of the honorable United Company of
merchants of England tradinf to the Eaft-In- °
I dies, which were loft from on board the Swal- "
low-Packet, tapt Kidd, from Falmouth to New w
™ ork - „ Dolls. Cts. qi
is- »>o 10,444, Reg. office 14th Dec. ai
I I?J3» ene certificate for i; 3J t |
I No 10,478, Keg. office 17th Dec, ,1
.kl i7«Jjs one certificate for io ? o ?0
e- j EUyion is* John Perot. ™
'3 eod6w as
This Day Publijhed, of
And for sale at the Office of the Editor, No, al
tl I "9 CheJ'nut-flrtet, as
c - (frict r-itb »f a Dollar,) fh
■AN ORATION, \ y .
a. .t. Pronounced July 4, j 79 8 ( p
~ sncrnu the Inhab: tants of the Town of
BU\rUN, in commemoration of the anni- ,
d I v crlary of Ameriean Indcpcndcccc.
i t By JOSMK ShjtHCT. in
a I The inroads upon our public Hberty, call P 1
" 11 r f PJr4, ' on ~ TKt wrong, we have fultaiHed,
I call for—Jujfice. That Keptration and thu fta
may y " be ob,jiaed ' b y Unhn, Spirit, in,
»d But to divide and conquers* di
the maxim of the Devil in the gjrden of Eden, 11
X °( nV ind hlth b " n thc pr'tici- p
t prefoit. VOUn " tr ° m thjt P er!od t0 th «
Observations on the Boslol Port-Bill, & c .p. 7 g
august u 7 ' Cr, jUn ' ° C(
I ' CXI
, I Trench Language. j
G. DUFIEF, l 'y
No. 63, SOWTH Second Street, [° U
Will OPt N nits
His DAY and EVENING SCHOOL r"
NB °P ,he l V h I'ifl. ' aTi
!' nH N V? - n PnVate ' U,t,OQ 4ttcnded ™as usual 1'
a d Tranflanons from either Language into the
Uifp«'ck P mCd W "^ a "« r «7. f«recy, and
IO • .
ew inh;
Horles to Winter. ? vl;
TTORSF.S will bt taken in to winter at P«o- lts '
Brirt l'" C J H, . u " atthe *« Mil« Stone, on the not
p
I — NoT "— ' wf tf -ail
Patent Ploughs, brfJ
t°ras sr «Atso. [i:
sjassrs-s »
order S'lrf"* gr °' jntl bs,tCT ire ke P' in [
: T .V ! e *P cnce arc fold at a cheaper - ior
',T h fim P liCed ind to c
[ M"t **l piece of calt iron, wits, ,hc handles and I
\ lav,"ml ZTlrl lh \ mi y *»h wrought V
ixririK 1 " pu ' - r "'- 1,
makl» Vh m f ° r v k en^ in ß wl,h inftr«aion» for
«» number vai'uKir fx * snd
LTT*- T n e ch,rfl y ln 'he Ciintv ofHun kct {
S 0 e n i 1,,0,P ? r ' r >' lvanU ' Thole whom"
; u : v ~ Claries Nsn folJ. inort
1 y 7 aawtf black
Xjbe
PHILADELPHIA,
1, at
tu-ry FRIDAY EVENING, I)£C£MrtER it.
r<*rt. -■ rp.
nd «>— ---
y 70 th
LEGISL ATURE of PENKSTLVANIA
i»CCO
( QOO GENTWIEIm
,'co, UNDERSTANDING that you are prc
,oco paring to enter upon th- coniiJcratlon of a
.co- | a w for the future prevention at' the YcHow
,400 Fever, which hr.s of l.ite years proved si»
~rrd deftrmlivc to the lives and intercll of P|»j.
laddphia, and other commercial town? in the
*" Union, and foiwe experience, and
- a t read much •« the i'ubjec^,'(not for the pur
"r. pole of deputation aiul mvielf or
party, for I reprobate every thin r rel'iiitinj
from f'ucli unwarrantable motives) but from
a ilncerc delire 01 divefh'ng a lubject from
the ambiguity in which difFert.it views hav.-
•kl] involv < <! * l ) IWgWve.tofubmlttovourat
juelt tention and disposal fuchfacts and arguments
ipen its have convinced" jr.e that the diCale has ii
bet- heretofore been introduced into this country it
lon- by imported contagion, and has never been d
tc " : derived from any impurity of the air of our I
a yj climate, though I admit that the air of po. n
jrnlous cities in the Summer and Autumnal ' a
n ieal'ins has a tendency to render the conta- !f<
'ffion more active, and to favor die prop;;-a- b
j tion of the diftafe. " j
'» ' I am, Gentlemen, •
a « With all due retr.-jft,
Your moll obedient l.inr.ble ienant, v j
A IhiCIXKXTAL SVbbkon. T v
ols, • ir
i
A SKFTCH
and Of Facts and Argument* in proof of the .
Ira- Yellow Fever, being of Foreign, and not ;
of Domestic Origin. ; .
Vir' HOt'GH the bellow Fever had been more p.
Pu- or ,elf fP'd' mic in v Philadelphia,' four tin-es
sn j before the year 179^ —-via. in 1741, ™
Tcs and in 1762, the Phylicians in i'hi- a t
Stc. ladelphia at the time of its appearance in •
ed 1793, were entirely not only ,
| with its nature, but with any appropriate .1.
method of cure. Some conlidering it as a l.
putrid, others as an aggravated f.jrm or va- ' ''
riety c.f the coiqmon bilious cr fall fever, i
> Though the improvements which had been ,
made in different parts of the citv weie ac- I r°
nr _ knowledged bv all to lave rendered it less :
of infefled with bilious fevers than formerlv. j a''
all U P on comparing its symptoms however with • }
A- the description given of the Yellow Fcverin ! y
on the \\ cft-Indics, it was ibon discovered to
- thc Yellow Fever, and this was more fully W
confirmed by its fubiequent and almost un- W '
a- cxampled mortality. Its contagious nature,
al as well as many of its symptoms diftinguiflied
:s, the Yellow Fever from the bilious fever. ?'
rt In thc most dangerous cases of the Yellow
of . r ' thc fevrr is "nftant for the firft three I
or i(H ' r and then ceases '-ntirelv to out- 1
,|. wa f d appearances f<y some hours) during ?'
„ which interval the patient feels easy and ,!t '
quil, but the fever again returns' with new I 7 K
and aggravated symptoms— a ycllowneis of ht '
tlie eyes and ffcin. inieffwt vomiting, at !irft WIJ
of various matters, but before its fatal ter- pOl
mination a dark coloured mixture relemblimr
coitee grounds, am! in ibme cases as black ll><
mk. The inflamed and watry apjiearance " ,f
°,V vn e - ye! at the bt B inn »'g of the disorder de I
, alio distinguished it from ;he Bilious fever, ver
as well 6s the fliort period of its durahon, and G r J
the malignity of its symptoms, in which it " ff(
bears a much nearer rcfbmblance to thc true ter
Plague. wit
'• 1 thC Yd ' oW Fevcr does rot from fto
the 8.l ous or Fall fever of this climate, only tu !
in the cireumftanre of contagion, and the as- ner
" L '\;. r , ; . t . v l>f symptoms ;it differs wr<
' a Ol I' > B '. I,OUS ftver also in the circum- cor
t tance of being aggravated and rendered S P !
, more certainly mortal by some of the leme- t,m
aUes that are mod efficacious in the cure of Ma
- fW? UI rr rS j P art!cular >y by the Peruvian wrt
f Bar., and Laudanum. the
These fevers ;.ifo occur, and are most nre- S™
( valent in different situations. Bilious fevers »«"<
occupying chiefly, the Suburbs of cities and
. e »"*!'*e tntft, of marlhy and level country '1
—w nil: tlx 1 chow Fever is almost exclusive- veil
y cor fined to cities a U d towns, and cfpecial- «6t
> occupies those parts that ar; moll poiiu- whi
lous and thicldy fettled. The Yellow FVver race
a ' fo * lwa y s teen observed in this citv Avi
near onie; particular wharf or vessel, or in
ome lodging house appropriated to leamen, l*v
as in lome families whole bulinefs leads them f«co
miirh among veflels. Like moll other coa. Am
• .ous difeales >t spreads from famiiv to fa- duly
mii ), and from one street to another as the r "
in j.tants have more or less communication unti
v.-h one another—Hence it is evident that -A
>ts cause, or the feeds which gi W it birth are fr>fta
° f mutl and P Ht rid ve- rick
ft' k* j S ,ve origin to bilious fevers) fwoi
ued abroad m the atmolphere. When nias
Biuous fevers occur, people are affefted in ed as
erent f»rts of the feme dilfrid at the feme that
S't!° r W1 " a Wda - V! qf t Scli at thev
r j r° nty ° f thclt: "■•«= alike and (but
Tthe weft .V' r ' r ° mC ln thl ' Cal!e!
the weft, and some m ey cry warter . Do . s Fieri
he yellow fever makes its {% T
K* , h " tnu, i,L Ration and
h" *himfica! daughter has created a ien- made
an'dThe h tfcC, h" CW in » of thc narfl.es phltr
" ion m f'\ nant of conn- p»ff I
ft.ort^b U t t ',ofe Who have taken the trouble the ,
Ibe tW rfcL 1 C ,' r P l '® no mea® «j|| „ a l, )
and the tooL'ach. tha " K'7
'IT f ° Uree ofthe Yellow clo'!
b / f ol ; ,c gentlemen T.
opinions than the ftren th c'f 01 f °' d J
amnnp-ft n " 4Clr arguments) come
ters tk ant w:,ttr °f the jlreet <*w the /
cs
to w F ;Vewh^?f"^r s ™ °7
thof«? sources ar, *-v.is<ltr.ve<l:r-n: confu
- von tog. orthataflemblageof fymp- that 1:
1 S2
' '" bt Continued. J
FRENCH ATROCITY.
The following detail will h er k
*1 "V American with feeling, of b J, ever T
detection. (he conHA , orror
French in this inllance h w ° ,hc
ntinable f 0
f f wordsto exprcfs our Wr •7- ant
iio..v ° f ur onl >" c °nfolation
Il„ " ° ur c;u: ' :tr ymen is awakened and K
1 z &
and i« fnu&f HSmC
jur- ° Ur w,de „ Reading compere. -f nd Z
for ' ab 'e to repel injuries and
;|"J * hatCVer <3 ua^r' they
•om —•
a v.- [c or r.]
rat „ curracoa
nts BY th.s public inttrument and protest hr
- I'LT'vt
»« I I'l.iiu, conf.ll of die u ni | tJ s
4% God, t-vf
in the said fch.oner from New-Yoik n',l'
M-k^»fA, g „U,»,WdLihC e
, M " ' nd 10 'he Welt-InJiei ; ? nd c„
•".the 20th September arrived at Grenad ,
i wherc he fold part of her cargo j and on tl c
| 4'h "..I, 1 ft Gre. Ada with the rcmai uW
I P 3 " ° f h . tr « r «°» &*»«! for Curracoa.
| , a . t . on , the 6th 'n' l - at meridian, he saw
the island called- Roca, it bore by his coai
'« P f' i E 'r E ' Unt about 6 lca g Ufs »
wh« the febooner was hauled to the iuuth
and weft ward in order to pas, between the
jn • above named .(land and the Wc, of Avis,
,] v . (I UPIU '" K l 1'" thtre wa <> a current fetiing
Ite W "i Watd > from h < small progress
a b fr VC a hat on the 7>h i»ft. at
a " 1 ST.lp'l k' u C saW th * brcait "*
under the lee bow, when the helm w„s i m .
m racdlate! y i«»'»'o bring the nfTcl
c- !7T . l but be J o,e io, and the
fails trimmed, she ftruek on the reef on the
j ° ort " of Aril, atid there (he
th ' , C l the guns were immediate.
jn ly th.iown overboard to ease the vefTel, and
to th* boat was put out and sent
with the firft mate and fix people on shore
n. W, ' h . f ° mc Provilions.—That the Bth and
c 9 1 " *ere occupied in getting prorifi.
:d ?".* °" fharc for ,h . f crfw to fubfifl on ; the
d island not being inhabited : That on
w „ ! ub ln the weatlier moderate,
, e * " a g f was m »de, and by iu help got on
t shore the main fail, fore fail, and some light
( , [»')»— but finding that there was no poflibi-
I,l r faviD g the veflel and cargo without
w ! afliHtnce, the boat was prepared and
yf fitted in the best manner that circum.lance*
would .allow ; acd on the 13th inft. the de
r_ p oner, t with fnur of the crew, faihd from
the island of Avis, for Curracoi, where
£ they arrived the 14th infl. That immedi
;fi ately on their arrival at Curracua, he thil
;r tJeponcnt waited .>r his txcellency the go-
vernor, and told him his fit nation, who with
d £ rcat t'omplaifancc and apparent friendfllip,
t effered him any aflilhiicc in his power, ic as-
terwardi waited on the iatd corful to advise
with him, who j»incd in opinion tha: a vcfTel
n fhouhl be procured with the utmost dispatch
y to bring away th. prople of the said schoo
ner, ni.d what could i-e saved fr m the
s wreck 'or the benefit of whoever it might
. concert ; and ggrteable thereto, hr paid a
1 SpaniQi fchoi.ner (the <>n!y vcfTel at that
. time to be get) called Santa Antonia Abad,
e Marucl CorfoD, maftcr, to proceed to the
, wreck, and there to wait eight days, and
then proceid to Curracoa, for whigji he a
. greed to pay him 320 dullars, acd to in
s lure hit veflel, valued at 1050 dollars, at
1 the late of 5 prr cent.
That he failed from Curracoa in the said
veflel Co hired, for tlie Illss of Avis on the
. 16th instant, her decktlie boat in
which he and his four people arrived at Cur
■ racoa, and -that the)' arrived at the Ilics of
Avis 011 the 18th inftnr.t. Ar,d on the 20th
instant came James Conner, failing mailer,
laevi Bordine, lirft mate, and Lifter A fguith ,
second iraK, all late of the said schooner
Amphitrite, who havmg bPen also severally
duly fivurn, did confirm the foregoing, fofar
as relates to the failing 'from Ncw-YorL,an<i
until said Snf II left the lilt?*: of llois.
Afterward:;, that is to fay, on the 22d
instant, caine said Th.oma; Sncll and Frede
rick Maretk. Said BaR-th having beenduh
fworn, deix>fecl tliat lie went with said Tho
mas Snell to thelllesof Avis, andthefeafl
ed as interpreter on the following oicaficn":
that on their arrival at the Ilies of Avij,
they found a privateer under french Coiouis
(but owned as they are informed in. Curracoa)
called, " Fhurde la Mer," comciajided by
Pierre d'l'ine, lylfi j at anchor.
That the day before their arrival at the
Isles of Art'i. the said Pierre d'Pine had
made prifonrri vf all the people 'if th# Am
phitrite, who remained thern and had taken
posT flion of all tliey had got un shore from
the wreck, with the vcflcls log book, jour
nal, Sic. and that by order of one or the
privateers prize mailers, a httt where some
"f the people lived, was burned wiib all tbeir
clo ! es.
That the privateer being then under way,
said Pierre d'Pine ordered the deponents to
come on boaid the privateer, and ail
the Amphitrite'* papers with them. ' ' le ■
-privateer fron after came to arch or, when
the deponents along wiihcapr. Corfon «et»t
on board, when the (aid d'Pine demanded
the papers. A letter from th« governor of
Curracoa, at d a certificate from the said
consul were harded him, both which he trea
ted with grejt contempt, and told them that
he wat governor of the lflesof Avis, aod
that he would t?kc from ihc «fr;ck of thefchconer Amphi.n'te v'.ist he th -u?Ht pro
pfr, and evtir liiiug from the fiiore that he
might wa-.it which i.ad teen saved from the
wrrck- -he liad already taken poff-fTion of
tlie Amphitrite's boat. ordered thepeo
pie «» go o" board the Spa .ifli schooner with
what e'loaths they had on ; he gave them
two lirtireU of beef, part tit four half barrels
of fiiinr, and half a barrel of bread. He then
demanded u-lsnow what was become of all
the arm., povfdCj &c* Captain Sntil told
him that he did not know, that he believed
i.c had in hit poffefinin already all that had
been f ved from the wreck ;to which he
replied ht had not, and laid that the people
had hid them under ground, and that if
did pot tell him where every article was, he
would put him and bis people on a faod key.
without bread or water, or would _ carr 7
them to St. Domingo and put them in pn
fon. Gapt. Snell replied that he was in his
power, and that he might do as he thought
proper, that he could not tell him what he
did ;iot know ; afterwards he told said Sncll
he might go on board the Spanilh schooner
if he plealed, which he did, and llaid with
the people of the Amphitrite.
That on the morning of the 19th iiflant,
a signal was hoisted by the Spanish schoo
ner for the pri»aicer to fend a boat on board
(they having nun of their own) which they
did and the deponents went on board the
privateer —I hat previous to their leaving
the privateer the saw the Araphitrite'a boat
with a number of the privateers people row
ing for the wreck ; and ab-utfuaclown, ihey
returned loadtd with tigging, gunpow
der, bu tcr, See.—That thus finding the
determination of the said Pierre d'Pir.e was
to take every thing from the wreck, they
asked her ptrmi'lioH to fail for Curracoa,
which he granted, and ordered hi* b >at bat
tled up to put them on board the fpanifli
schooner; mean time, and while the boat
was getting ready, he told them that the
Americans were a pack of villains without
humanity ; and rather than thev (lionld favt
a (ingle thing from the wreck he would set
fire to her, bum her up—That soon after
they were put on board the Spanilh schoo
ner, 7 o'clock. P. M. of the 19th inft. they
got under way-and the next day, at 3P.
M. they arrived at depo
nents thereupon for thereafons above wrtten,
do protest, and I the said Consul at their
requetl, do hereby foleinnly protest, agair.ft
the said current, which drove the said schoo
ner out of her course, which caused her to
flick on the aforefaid reef, to fh'ck faft and
to be wrecked ; Against the said Frtnch
privateers, called Fluer dc la Mee, officers
and crew for having deprived th#m of 'he
property saved from the wreck of the Am
ph trite aad of the wreck also ; and aganft
that go' ermcnt who has gi»en her a com
million to rob and plunder American per
font and property; these fads having been
done in a time of peace between America
and France, and on the Spa«i(h ground ;
For all loirts.coftt, hurts, delay, detriments,
and damages fuffered, or to be' fuSered, or
fultairied by reason of the premises, refer
ring to the said deponents, and to myfelf,
at Consul on the part of the U. States <*
America, the right to enter all further pro
tests and proceedings at may at anytime
hereafter be needful, in refpe& to the pre
mifet.
In Teilimorry of the truth whereof, the
said deponents have hercuuto fubferibed
their names.
Thomas Snell,
James Sonner, *
(Signed) Levi Bardin,
Lifter Afguith,
P'rederick Barret
And in faith of the truth whereof, and
in testimony, I have hereunto set my hand
and sea] as office, at Curracoa, this 29th
day of o<3ober 1798, and in the 23d year
of the Independence of the United States of
America.
B.H. PHILIPS,(L. S )
NOTICE.
PURSUANT to the lift will and testament
of Lindsay Coats, £ will
be fold by Public Vendue, on Thursday, the
third day of January next, at ten o'clock in
the forenoon, at the U- life of Thomas Lowry,
(fignof the Brd in Hand) in Upper Meriou
fownlhip, Montgomery c< unty
A valuable Grift Mill,
AfcD ABOUT
Twenty-five acres of Land,
Situate in the said tou nfhip, fcvtral acres of
which arc meadow, and ihe greater part of the
remainder wood land.—The conditions of sale
will be made known by
UACHaL COATS, Executrix.
Dcc - *° ftVwfa jt
John J. Parry,
CLOCK is* WATCHMAKER,
it AS agam opened at bit usual Stu,ui, No. jB,
i outb SfonJJlreet —where be has far Sale, '
Excellent Gold & Silver Watches,
and \ FEW ]
Eight Day Cclocks, f
H'Ueb evil! be warranted to give fatufaHion. 1
An allortment of '
C " U *!*>'»*, Seah and Keys. '
A.. Ittads of Clock and ifatcb <wor/t done with !
particular attention as heretofore. 1
& An Apprentice wanted. '
november n m«&f. % c M . '
For sale by the fubfcr'Aers, \
A Ft W BALKS O"
woolens, '
Containing Cloths & Blankets, 1
t.to ' i!es muflun t
-o l '°' MaJra» hiißillicrcliUf*, pat- t
r>'r».« *
101 pi'-ct* Ryflli sheeting
IO boT»« umHreUa* ° r
a ocintUy o( cfTia t
."O trn, Petcr(l>*re cV jn hen n
pipes, 3 year, old, pjrticUr Ma- a
Gtira wine
* quantity tf fheathinr erpper
Merckcai Lcv/ii. f
nov. »6
- -
ll 3£ljc o^ette*
[ t °K d DEL PHI A,
cm
els FRIDAY EVENING, DECEMBER si.
icn
3 1,j DlED]—Yellcrday morriiw.j, of the lock
ed i 4 *> Mr. S. M'pAr.tASE,
a( j late of N-W-York, Printer ; a young man
whole amiable ii!l';x>}ition, and integrity of
|; j e cliarartcr, endeared him to all who had the
• j pleafuie of his acquaintance.
,y Mr. Bunell, merchant, ofSt.Domingo,
r y is the gentleman, who bears difpatchcs from
r ;_ General Touisantlo the Executive of
j,j s the United States.
he
<» communications.
th "
FENNO,
lt I HAVE pcrufed with the ut
' most interest and avid ty the letter of F. D'
r j Ivernoi.s as published in your Gazette. It
abounds with facts and reflections of the fir ft
importance to every American—lt cannot be
. too generally or too frccjucntlv read—l could
.al W t0 '' c ' ts t extended to every
coiner of the United Jjjatss, and am furpril
ed, with you, that any American Pjper
cy (liould omit its publication—We there trace,
"J wi;li convincing perspicuity, the (lamelfcfs,
ras al)J£K i nK ' d an <* Woody treachery of France
(r from step to step, from deception to decep
a tion, from officii falfliood to ialihood, from
' defiliation to defoliation and from murder to
ifli nn ! rci ' r — llhd t!K ' deluded abettors of her
' rxefirious views, laughed to scorn when they
, have required the justice and favor which
e had been promised, and which (educed thetn
to desert and betray their country, andta'at
•V' cd with diftinguilhed harfhnd's and cruelty
et It cannot be doubted that France had deeply
er entered into the mad projocl of universal d;~
minion ; had refolvcd to destroy with her
■y arms every opposing power, and swallow up
• in perfidy and intrigue such as were neutral.
Her views then again ft every neutral nation
the fame, being founded in the lame
'' dark and damnable policy, it is not perhaps
" surprising that the means (lie employed to ac
! complifh her object have been foprccifely fim
i ilar in America, Switzerland and Geneva
hI We tilc amc affe Aed Cant ibout liberty
;h *'< l equality ; the fame prctenfion of pre
ra ; fervingthe rights of the people ; of protecl
le i"g the lower and opprefled orders from the
n- ; tyranny of their rulers ; the fame solemn
it pledges and sffurances of refje&ing the rights
n- of neutrality, and the independence of their
r» dear Sister Republic, and the lame destroying
-O treachery and ruin, have been pratftiled or
:a attempted in all tliel'c places—(lie has found
. ; in these countries as in all others, parties
», differing in questions of internalgovernment
sr 01 struggling for rank and pre-eminence, and
r- (he has immediately united herielf with the
If, most ignorant or most desperate fide, has be
[• come their open or lee ret ally, has appropri
-- af-d their force to her own interests and duped
dC the in into the belief that ffe was cfpoufing
e- their ciule and establishing their points, while
in f.ift, (he was but making them subservient
toherprojects, and inftnunentnl in their own
: d rum. Mr. D'lvernois seems to impute their
i iuecefs in Switzerland to the infinite address
; and great popularity of Uarthelemy ; and
*; to believe that it a more rash minister had
j been there, the eyes of the government and
j people would have been opened early ertough
I to have defeated their invaders—How near
,d may we have been to the precipice thev have
,d ■ fallen from—The open afTumption of power
th i and disregard of our neutral and independent
ar j rights—tlie ra(h insolence, and infufferable
of arrogance that were maniieftcd bv thole
wretched politicians, Genet, Faucbei, and
Adet may have been our salvation A Bur
tblemj, lulling our fears at daily encroach-
S mer.ts through real or pretended friendlhip,
or, by the plain dictates of pclicy, avoiding
to excite the alarttvwhich it was his interest
.11 t0 hpprefc, might perhaps have left us little
le at this time to boalt of, or at least have in
n solved us inferious and lading ftenesof blood
r, ihed and trouble—But the alarm, thank God
' ,s e xcited, and has elefteriicd every Ameri
can heart—France stands before us, naked,
deformed, corrupted and detestable as (he is
and the United States beholds with unfpeakl
able contempt every etfjrt which (he or her
if partiians are making or can make to lull us
e into a falfe security, to ivftgrc her credit
among us, or expose us either to her treach- ;
ery or her arms. AN AMERICAN.
1 HOUGH present appearances indicate i
a leimiiion in the fever of reformation, and :
tliat modern chivalry is weaiing out of fafli- f
ions, tlie re is still caofe for vigilance and s
exertion. The feeds of contagios are no i
where intirely eradicated, and another tfood
( tide m the fortune of the French, though at
prelent ebbing apace, would quickly re-invi. f
gorate their principles and adherents. The v
. T c of lo natural to poverty and a
ai.appointed ambition ; the pride of Philo- r
lephy, loured to mifanthrorhy at the dil'- li
' fa 7 oritc the vet unchaf- 1
, J'? . thonghtleis beiievoleace, and t :
oi those friends to ehnftianity, who in tl:e t
triumphs of infidels, find arguments for the t
truth of the Gofpei, and the fulfilment of t
the prophecies are auxiliaries, ever ready i.
to support the standard of Gallic ifforma- si
turn. It behoves us tlierefore to be upon our 1
guard—l o ruftrate the machinations of the si
wicked, ant, to save the weak ami fupcrftU b
tiou?, from the d ? ftrudive consequences of tl
II e.r lupin-nets and eredulitv. V(
In _the juggle of the political theatre, a
new kind <4 cha rafter leems to have (farted >
upamon-ftus. Those who have too much c
grace any longer to advocate the French, ir
ar.a at fie lajne t.:ne too much bigotry jnd p
rancor to allow i:r.v merit to the Englifli, p
have afTumed* fttttflly nevtra! ftaticn, and ri
Ujn.; into a for; of negative bring, defignat- d
by tiK Tliefe g
" :rje Arryrir n? canAot exclaim trf... the
lionnn p;ii!u:.thropift, " Homo ttrtn, wihil
amnani ame »Iwnu! i puta." "l iioa ;!. for
merly rll Frerr. r>, they are now v/lrilly Amer
ican, (.ium vltaat ftnlti v'.t'ii '•) and hohl
th 'rrilclves totuliy detache'l from every other
portion of t'u hur.un race, in v/liole affairs
they difcl'itn an) connection or concern.
The benovelence of your true American, is
bounded by the limits of country. With
him, there is no world beyond it. Europe
is not even his ullim t Thule, aud wrap'ied
n up in apathy, like tlie Ciod us Lucrciiius,
)f a R.eSu«, fijun 'laqu* lon^c,
i« Nee bean j>ro meritis cuji-iiur, nec ira.
So long therefore as the Freiich will let
us til.ine, f.ty tIu.lL- gcntlemnii we have i\o
», tiling to do with them, and are in no wife
n interc.lid in their proceedings. But with
»f all due deference to these foi-difant Ameri
cans, I can regard the luicflion which 1b tre-
BtrndDufly agitates the civilized word, in
other light, titan whether we (Americans 4s
well as Europeans) lhall exchange tlie man
ners of the prelent age, for thole which pre
vailed in Rome, in the mofl corrupted it ate
of the commonwealth. The delicjn cf thole
t- who effected tlie revolution in France, and
)' now take the lead in the affairs of that re-
It publie, evidently is, to overthrow the pre
(t lent governments in Europe and to eltahlifh
ie democracies in their stead. Conneited with
d this intention, it is their plan and primary
y object to deltroy the • Christian Religion,
I- which is intimately interwoven with, and
r a main of the exifling ellablifhnients.
:, This undoubtedly was the motive which
5, carried their arms into Italy, and prompted
e the demolition of the Papal power. The
>7 feenrity cf the present usurpers, is an addi
n tional and perhaps still ftrcnger reason for
0 1 their e»rtions to change the f.tce of Europe;
r| as upon the e\tenf:on of theii principles they
y j nult chiefly depejid for tlw preservation of
11 their power, and perhaps of their lives. So
n ! loflg as the monarchial form of government
;- shall be fartiion.ible they have to dread a co
- alition for the re floration of monarchy in
v ] France ; but if they succeed in their demo
-') cratizing ft heme, they are at once freed from
r thir darker.
p As the French revolution was flrfl set on
. foot by their literary men, it has been pret
n ty genetally countenanced by that class of
e philofopliers in other countries, wjio have
s been more conversant with the natural than
- moral world, aud with books than men ;
- and it is observable that in all their opera
• tions, much attention has been paid by the
t propaganda to flattering the propejifities of
- this defcriptipn of mankind. Hence their
- affectation of a love for the arts, their adop
: tion of the Roman manners and revival of
1 the Roman names in the countries they have
5 revolutionized. The conquest of Italy, and
r translation of the great master pieces of
sculpture and painting to Paris, as well as
1; the present expedition to Egypt, which is
1 alio a fort of clafiic ground, and the theatre
s on which Alexander and Cxfar and the o
ther heroes of antiquity had formerly dip-
I tinguifhed themselves, were calculated to
' Aimulate the appetite of the literati and men
■ of talents * im every part of the world, and
- were confederations which were doubtless
I thrown into the scale, though not perhaps
: the principal inducement to thole undertuk.
: ings.
: But to return to ourselves—He mult be
1 a short-sighted statesman indeed, who thiy.ks
' we could remain unaffefted in a general
> wreck of the European establishments, or
I that we Ihould not immediately partake of
1 the evils resulting from the prostration of
I religion and morals which must inevitably
1 ensue. What then are we to think of those
politicians, who are laboring to keep alive
an enmity to Britain, who as well from the
respectability of her conftitutio* (the freedom
of which, contraffed with the democratic
tyranny of France, may at length ween the
minds of the discontented from their extrav
agant theories') as from her maritime supe
riority, is the only power capable of rescuing
the world from the ruin which menaces it!
* See letter to Mazzei.
IT must afford fatisfadtion, to the lover
of virtue, order and government, to know
that JUDGE RUSH is in contemplation as
a candidate tor the Executive Department,
when the term of the present Governor ex
pires. Tlie abilities and character of
JUDGE RUSH stand in need of no euio
gium. Ihe integrity and independent firm
nefs of his mind—his invariable, support of
the conflitution and laws of his country—his
ardent love of justice, and inflexible fteadlnefs
in the office of a magistrate—.his laudable
and distinguished exertion i n his judicial
station, to impress the observance of moral,
social, and religious duty, are well known,
and cannot but render liim highly acceptable,
and unite in his favor, perfonsof all parties
and denominations, who wish to promote tl e
solid interests and profprpity of our country.
It mufl afford no inconsiderable degree of
fatisfaAion- to the friends of the Federal Go
vernment, to perceive those measures, the
adoption of which were opposed with the
molt virulence in their operation -vindicate
themselves. This has been the cafe precise
ly in more than one instance, The Britifli
treaty, in particular, has given the lie to all
the prediction jof its antagonists : and every
tranfaftion of our government with relation
to France, in their success, are daily afford
ing strong demonllrationt of the wisdom and
forefight of those who originated them.
This, if there wai any candor ia the oppo
lition, won d be acknowledged by them,
but the'e men habituated to the difufeof
their own sense, (if they have any) relist e
ven the incontrovrrtiTle<vidence of fadt.
Verbal accoun s fom the Welt Indie*,
are but repetitions of eulogiums on the poli- '
cy of th-- United State*, in suspending their
intercourse wi h those belongi'ng to the
French republic. fhefe colonies, as it was
predicted, cannot subsist without tht Atne- 1
rican cemmerce.—Starvation is doiug won. '
derful things—it has already expelled the a. ;
gems of the republic from the important ifl-
and of St. Domingo, and will iuecci&vciy
1 re*^hi.Hm?7c all French America.
Tl.c independence of St. lXm-.i'.izo wIH
afford great temptation to the Aatericau
mcrc.iauit: it |» however undcrflood, tliat
the proportion of Touffairit only amount
to the regulation of a partial trade, to fupplv
the want! of the island, until a regular and
permanent government (hall be eftabiiflicd—
In this cafe, or indeed in every quellion of
this novel affair, it will require much delibe
• ration and caution, before the American
government can fafeiy accede to to a princi
ple, which may in the tffue involve other
important maxims of national policy. But
t we can in this inllance, rely oil that wisdom,
forefigbt, and patriutifm, which on more
critical occ; fions, have fafeiy conducted us
through quicksands and rocks,
UNITED IRISHMEN.
1 here came lalt to my Houfc two
ruffians, one ol whom lurked about the porch,
while the other, as I stood at my own door,
iiruck me on tiw head with a bludgeon ;
Amazed atfuch baseness, and being affkulted
| wholly unawares, I turned into jsny Office to
. seize a stick, in (bad ofprelfmg mflai!-'
. ant, whereby I might have prompt!/puniffi
i ed his audacity. Reflecting on the trnnf
■, aCtion since, it has occurred to me, that I
f was fortunate in not doling with him, as his
, dagger-armed compan.on wqulJ immediately
1 have fallen upon >ne, and in the lcuffle which
, mult have enliied, I Ihould have ueeu mr.r
---i deied. I went after the nocturnal affiillin,
1 this morning, to return liis domiciliary vilit.
A woman came forward to lay he w**iiot at
home.
He will not, however, pass unpunilhed :
But future attacks will be repelled i'n a differ
ent manner ; and it' ih'd'el),iggei»Mench< oC
thus to push things to extremities, they will
find mc letter prepared.
John Ward Fenno.
CI-
This day, at 12 O'clock, the House of Rtprt
sentatives of this state, waited on the Pre
sident of the United Siuies, and presented
the following
ADDRESS:
To JOHN ADAMS,
President cf theUxn-ED Status,
SIR,
AT this momentous crisis of our pub
lic affairs, the house of Representatives of
the State of Pennsylvania, at an early period
of their feflion, beg leave to cxprefs the high
lenfe they entertain of your conduct, as Chief
Magiltrate of the United States, in i'upport
ol the honor and independence of this coun
try.
We have viewed, with anxious solicitude,
the wild projects of dominion, which haye
beendilplayed on the theatre of Europe. We
have leen, that even that theatre is too small
forthe unlimited ambition of the rulers of
the French people;—that the Atlantic itfelf
gives no bounds to their projects of subjuga
tion ; and that the United States of America
are threatened. Threatened, Sir, not lo
much with open hostility—or an immediate
and bold divdion of their territory as with
a division, btfmeans of a dark and insidious
policy, of the people from the government of
their choice, and from the men on whom the
ponderous weight of adminifk ration rests.
The vilest arts of political ledudtion have
been triumphantly employed in various go
vernments, and especially in those of repub
lican form. The endearing language Of fil
ter has been uttered, in the moment of a
deadly embrace. That you, fir, have been
constantly aware of the effeCts of this policy,
and have, with an uniform dignity, provid
ed againlf thfcm and for the public fafety, so
far as yo::: conftitutiona] powers .permitted,
mult he highly gratifying to the patriotic
pride ol" every independent mind. That in
this address we speak the sentiments of the
great body of our conflituents, as well as
our own, warms our hearts in the expreflion
of ifaat important truth. Yet we deplore
that there are those, who call themselves by
the American name, who have daringly in
fuited our country, by an ul'urpation of pow
ers not delegated to them, by an obscure in
terference in our external That
you have lately noticed this circumfhnce, is
an additional proof cf your vigilance for the
jjneral welfare.
On this subjeCt itremainsforus to fay,that
is (not\vith.tanding your lioeral policy) ne
sociation Jus failed, we pledjje ourselves in a
solemn manner, as far as our conflitutional
powers extend, to co-bperate with the go
vernment in averting all foieign influence,
and detecting domestic intrigue.
With sincere and earned wiftie* for your
health ; that your care for the public good
may continue, and with it, the confidence
of t!-e citizens of the United States j the
House of Representatives of the State of
Pennsylvania have voted this Address.
YEAS.
MeflYs. Evans, Speaker j Albright,Brown,
Blair, Brooke, Bull, Buckley, Campbell, Dun
lap, F.rrjin, Foster, Fisher, Hannum, Hall,
Htmpbii!, Hendricks, Hopkins, Hostetter,
Kelly, Kennedy, Keppele, Keys, Kirk, Krause
Miller, M'Pberson, Palmer, Power, Pres
ton, Raum, Ruch, A. Scott, J. Scott, Secke', '
Stofker, Speer, St v,r, Strickler, Taylor,
Turner, W a t S on, Wells, Williamson, Wbar- 1
ton, Wilson, Wright— 46 .
N A Y S.
Meflrs. Bnileau, Coolharge, Ccttrad, Cun- 1
ningbam, Eyre, Fuimer, Harris, Hartsell,
Horn, Huston, Ingles, Leonard, Lyle, Ma- .
worten, McDowell, Penrose, Rose, Shoe
maker, Snyder, Udree, Weaver, Worrell—
2a.
1
To which the PsE.nbEsr made thefollowing ]
kEP L Y :
To the House of R&rßF.sExrArii Es of the a
State of Pehnsyxvania. I
centlemin, ,
I RECEIVE the honor cf this Addref* 1
from the House ct Rcprrlcntatives of the 1
St ite of Pennsylvania, exereffive of their ap- J
probation of my conduit, as Chief Mapif
tr-te of the United Stat?s, iirfupport of the
:!y | Honor £«%,. ... £
I
ill , liar fcrdib!lit\.
an j 'll ic" p.llion of ambition is in ifs r.itttiic
at | unlimited. The ! te wild projects fu ..cd.-u
at i !>y it oir the,tlx' tiwutre of Enre;.v, a;-.- ihi.
Iy j new. Tha French nation, from their mm. ■
id , hers, their fituatior, tk-ir mmiiieli, thi : -
I rel'urces, their brav.-ry, activity ingiruut;,
of i slid enterprise,. have fccen pecniiariy i'ubjeu,
e- . to paroxysms of this ciifkiiiper of tlie hum/.,
in mind. Iho ipirit of comjuei't, which hti
:i- I often fcizedon this peopL,lus liowever, tx
if j vcr taken pofleifiou 01 then: without making
at work for fevtre repentance—without invoh
n, » n S France in extravagant exertions, and ex
re peaces, both of blood ard tic*Aire, which
it have ekhaufted it to t'uch a degree, as to re
quire i'omc times whole centuries of langour
and laiiitude before they could recover their
true ltation in the woild.
7 here has not been a found mind in France
'o which lias not always regretted and lamented
11, this foible in his countryman. Noi do 1 be.
r, lieve there is a Frenchman in the worid a;
: this day, v, ho is really and truly enlightensd
•d with the knowledge of the true Late reft and
:o honor of his country, who does not be*u i
i- the inl-tuHtion which is producing trnipo
i- rary calamities to other nations, and mull
produce more lading misfortunes to France.
1 The inJidiaus and malevolent policy of d.-
is viding p-opl- and nations from their govern
y ment is not original : The French have not
h the credit even oi the invention of it. It is
r- borrowed from the jjnrat nation of P-iKa,
i, who were taught it iy tfc little republic or
t. Sparta, ttter si e was debauched and coi rup.-
il ed. France «ught to I* rfliamedof it, aul
the world c.i'/lit to make her repen: tf her
: fctvile iniitstic*.
. C.frior nmfl own that our country lies
under a reproach which it concerns th: lu
ll tion to coiTctt : it is that of producing in
dividuals who are capable not only ofdirfc
interferences by ulurpation in our extern,.l
concerns, but alio capable or forgetting or
renouncing their principles, feelings and ha
bits, in a foreign country, ;:nd becoming en
d eini ° s t0 their own. The diigmceful ol>fcr- :
vation has "been made, and with too much
appearance of truth, that there are more A
mericans than there arc of any other nation
who change their minds when they change
their ikies. Scandalous and criminal proofs
of this are heard and read almost every day.
i- Whether this is owing to a want, of national
»f chara&er, or a want of criminal law, a reiu
d edy ought to be fought,
i! Ihe solemn pledge you give to co operate
i with the general government, in averting all
t foreign influence and detrfling domestic io
~ trig'ie, is very important to the common
welfare of our cou> try, and will give great
:, fatikfadion to the Union.
e I return, gentlemen, with great pltafure,
e »y fineere and earned tvilhes for your
health, that y«ur care for the public good
• *may continue, as I doubt not it will, and
■1 with it the confidence of the citizens of
Pennsylvania in particular, and the union in
a general.
0 „ JOHN ADAMS.
c Philadelphia, Dee. 21, 1798.
h m t m
s f CONGRESS.
The House of Representatives of the li
nked States were this day employed in dis
cussing the question, whether Wm. Blount
should he tried without perfooally appearing
_ { j" court, on a proportion made for inftruft
_ ' n £ 'he Committee of Managers to require
t 'he Senate to ilTue process for compelling
t 'he laid Wm. Blount to appear.
' NOTICE.
, *** A stated meeting of the America#
, PutLosoPKCAL SociErr will be held tbis
; Evening, at six o'clock, at their Hall.
1 "
For falc by the subscriber,
At Portsmouth (k.h.)
jJr* THE HULL
°r a
; NEW SHIP,
: 80 feet keel, iy 1-1 beam, i» fcet hold f, 10
; between <ifck« ; about 130 tons; wirh ins(t<i, 'pjr«
ani! ail tht carpenttr's and fmith\ work com.
pletrd ; built of goad found seasoned timber and
plank ; launched in Novtm'ier. 1796, and ha. been
• will taken care of since that time—Further par
• ticulars majr be known by applyinjr to Miflri.
Wftarton & Lewis Hhilsfielphia, or to
[ THOMAS THOMPSON,
iltcrmber at 3aw.tf.
NOTICK
ON or about the 15th last Novembrr, tber« wa»
landed from on board a sloop or fchoorer,
1 on Race Arret wharf, a qu.ntity of Plafter-faria.
I he owner is dtfired to pay wharftfe and take it
away, otlierwife it will b« told at vendue 011 fai4
r whaif for the fame on Saturday, January 5, 1798
HARV£Y & DAVW.
dec. »r J3wtjys
NOTICE.
THE Public are cautioned nst to trust any of
the people belonging to the Swedish Snow Maria,
on my account.
Hafti Olof Koch, master.
d--c a? 5
70 hhds. Santa Cruz Su^ar
OF txcellent quality, (in Stores of John t fo
ana C'o.) A <;umtity of
SAIL CANVASS,
and a Box of Mate, lor Tale, by
STF.PHS.N KINGSTOK
dec ti m .
feod3t
iorty Dollars Reward,
• , L ,°? T f" Thursda y l*ft the 6th Inftimt.
in Market treet,between jh Sc 7th Htieets;
a Red Murocco potket Book,contiinine fix
Bank Notee for Ffty Dollar' each, and fm; 11
Notes for one Hundred and Ted D liars
alf<> lundry receipts and Papers of no ufc
but to the owner.—-the about reward will be
given to any ! erfon, who delivtrs the fame
10 Mrf«r«. Isaac and Luke Morris, lirwer,.
No 4 Pear street, or to tjie Subfcr.bcr
aLancattcr County.
" ISAAC CAFFMAN.
dcccmbcr 13. f.rr..3ctb|tBank of North Ameriea.
THE Stockholders arc hercVy notif'Cc!, that ar. |
T.icdion for twelve Dire>£li>r«, for the I
year, will l>« lehlat tlic Batik on Monday, the ,
14th of January next, at fen o'clock.
RICHARD WELLS, CalVr. _
Dee. 8, 1708. « dtft- |
ANY French Ladies and Gentle- j
men wanting pafTage for France, can obtain it in
a Vessel at New-York, by applying to MefTm
Gahn & Mumford in that City.
Dec. 18.
Ce» Danjes ou Medieurt Francois, qui vfulent
passer eB France, rfUTtnt etrc jeeomodec, fur un r
Watimeut partant de N. York, en s'addreffant chez
M. M.Gahn and Mumford, dan cetteville.
Dec. 18. 3'
NOTICE.
ALL Persons indebted to tbe EfUte of V A
liam Beauchamp, lately rtereafed, are de
sired to make immedia'e piyment and tbofe who
have any claims against laid Eftste to produce
thdir accounts properly attested to
Saml. Price, executor.
nnv dim
Tor Tall, ' ~
By the Subscriber,
Belfaft Canvass, No. 1, to 7,
On moderate terms for Cash or a short credit
yarues Lyle,
South Seventb-Jlreet, near Cbefnut.
rwv t6
" FOR SALE,
To be EXCHANGED for property within thirty
mi es of the city, or to let on grountl-rent iorever
Several valuable building Lots,
In Philadelphia,
linquire of William M. Diddle, ne. 147» Chefuut
ftrcct.
nov 21
Lancaiter County Butter,
IN KEGS,—FOR SALE,
Enquire at No. 92, Market-street,
near Third-Street.
dec t $
LARENCE SECKEL,
No. 155, Market-Street.
First quality Lnndon Particular / \VSNES.
Madeira, Poit, Sherry and Lilbon $
Cr.gnuc Brandy, lit to 4th proof.
Sp riu.
By tbe Pipe, Hhd, Quarter-calk or Gallon.
( ; t c j mw&fiw
BALLAST.
A QUANTITY 10 br disposed of, if applied fdr
immediately, on boird the Slip Louisa, lyiog
Mr. HUMPHREY'! Ship Yard.
nnvemberiO. 5
FOR SALE,
By the Subscribers
200 Bolts Rufiia Duck,
50 pipes London pat titular bill Madeira Wine
I pair nine pound Cannon
A few Baits Madras Handkerchiefs
40C0 bs Fine Flota Indigo
s.l Barrels Beef.
Millings Francit:.
Ptnn-'lreet, 7
November 28 ) $
Prime Sugars,
Wi'l be landed from tbe Etterprize, captain
Lingdon, lying at Mtrris' wharfj
Forty one hogsheadt of
Jamaica Sugars, of the firft qual
ity (entitled to drawback)
For sale by
Wharton & Lewis,
no. 115, south Front flr.
dec. i,y. diw
A LL PERSONS having any legal demands a
x~\. gainst the e'date of IVilliam Pa Li.it, deceased,
late of the city of Philadelphia, Tavern keeper, arc
requested to furnilh their accounts properly au
thenticated, and persons indebted to laid estate
arc r.'cjjcdcd to make payment to the fubferiber in
Philadelphia.
LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH Adminr.
Oilobcr jtft, 1798.
Wants a Place,
A WOMAN with a good Bread of Milk,
Enquire at No. 58 South Front street,
Dec. ia_
TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
DKSERTED last night, a second time, from
the Marine Camp, David Lupcr, a fifer.—
He had when he went away, a plain tlue jackt t and
veft.lightblucoveralls.a round hat,which
bound with yellow, and which he had ripped off
in hiffitft difertion, and a pair of new (hoes, he is
a Carpenter by trade, has grey eyes, sandy hair
fallow complexion and a rvitch in his tipper lip
His back is ftlll fore from a flogging he got a few
days ago He may bo difcovcred by his fifeing,
as he plays extremely well.
W. W. BURROWS Major Com. of the
OiSober 17. Marine Corps.
FOR SALE,
Fifty Acres of Good Land,
Lyino in Gloucister County,
State of Neir.Jerfey,
TWENTY-FOUR acres ot whichaie
Woodland, the reft, Meadaw. This
land lies about half a mile from Timber-Creek,
am) two miles from the river Delaware, the
county road parting through it, and the great
road only two miles distant. For terms, apply
to, PATRICK DOGHERTY,
Sign of tbe Rainbow, in Shippen,
bcMueen Second and Tbird-Jirerts.
dec 4 f tuth&fiw
ALL PERSONS
Indebted to tha Eflatc of Mr. John FENNo.late
•f.Philadelphia, deceased,arc difired to make pay- j
mem, ajid thofc having any demands, to present
rhem for fettluivent, to
SAMUEL BLODGET, Adm'r.
or '
JOHN WARD FFNNO, Agent
to the adaiiniQiation.
no*. 3o
NOTICE.
ALL perl'ons indebted tathr Estate of Sam-
VfJ. Walus, esq. of Murcey towaftiip,
in (he county of Lycoming, lately deer*fed, are
hereby rtquiffil to come forward immediately
and pay their refpeflivexlebls.—And all perfoiu ]
hawing legal demands against the Efliie, are
rrqueflrd to produce their accounts, picperly
aulienticated, for kill.-meat. !
JOHN WALLIS,-
WIILIAM I.LLI?, / Admiiiiftra-
JMNIEL SMlTft, r ins.
JOHN AELUM, J
december 13
fliS CARGO,
OK t risc Ship IND!. V ,
C'ftr.in AiiiMr..\o, from BATAVIA, I.
Cons!'tinv if
JAVA C O F F EE,
Of the Fiift Quality—-0 be Sold, by
MORDEC.-iI LEWIS.
dee U
FOR SALE;
BY THE SUBSCRII'ESS. <2
14 four po-und Cannon, c ifFerent lengths, J
c Carronadcs.
JOHN NIXON & CO. j
December I. §
For sale by the Subscribers,
The Cargo of the Schooner '
Sincerity, from LAGUIRA, 3
150 feroons of cotton .
40 do. of indigo j
511 fanegas of cocoa ,
1056 hide» c
4 bundles of gum
J barrels } COFFEE
r bale of Deer skins
Willing.r & Francis.
December If, 1798 j
Now Landing,
From on board the ship John Bulkeley, and
for sale at the stores of JefTe & Robert
Wain,
350,000 w#ight of Java Coffee,
of the fie 11 quality in bags. , ,
150,000 weight of Java Sugar,
in cannißers.
Nov. 23
Imported,
In the Ships Aclive and Liberty,
from Hamburgh.
Ticklenburghs,
Oznabrigs,
White Platillas
Brown Silefias
Bretagnes
Heflian Rolls
Brown Ru(Tia Sheetings
German Lindfeys,
Bed Ticks, Ssfr.
For Sale by
GEORGE PENNOCX.
no. 103 Market-(l reet.
nov to
SHOEMAKER i i,
HAVR REMOVED THEIR
INSURANCE OFFICE
to No. 9, south Front street.
Their rcom at the Coffee-houfe will contftiue to
be attended from 11 till 2 o'clock in the day, and
from 6 to 8 o'clock in the evening.
JACOB SHOEMAKER,
Has also removed his Counting-koufe to the
fame place, where he has for sale a few pipes choice
London Paaticular Madeira Wire; French and
Spanish Brandy ; Claret in calks and caf-s, of su
perior quality, and a few Packages Glass and
QurenVware ; also, a quantity of Carolina Soal
leathcr, which will be fold very low to clofc the
sales.
Philadelphia, 1* mo. u, 1798. §
THE PARTNERSHIP OF
Alexr. J. Miller, If Co. <
BEING dilTolved on the firft instant, by the
death of James Davis, all persons indebted
to tbe fame are requested to fettle with the fub
fcriberi and those to whom thry are indebted are
. requested to call on him fir payment.
ALEXR. J. MILLER,
No. 64, South Front Jlreet.
Who has on hand,
TO BE DISroSED OF ON LOW TERMS,
■ By tbe Package or Piece.
1 Fine plain and tamboured Muslins
Guzzenna*
Baftas
Coflaei
Rabobgungies
India Callicoet
, Book Muslins
t Coloured ditto
Real & Mock Madras Sc. puilicat hkfs.
Brown Silefias
Tickings, &c. &c.
" JUST ARRIVED,
AN ASSORTMENT OF
r Irish Linens & Russia Sheetings.
8 nov 28 §
r
A Young Man, #
v VT7"HO writes a good hand, iraderftands
•' VV accounts and can be well recommended,
wants a Situation as Clerk or Assistant in a
W'holefale Store, or CouutMig-houffe. Appli
- cation to be made at this Office.
nov 14 §
To the Creditors of the Subscribers.
PLE ASE TO TAKE NOTICE, that we havrap.
plied to the judges of the Cnurt of Common
Pleas, for the benefit of an a£t of HTcmbly, palf:d (he
e fouith day of Aptil last; and they have appoinied
» THURSDAY the ajth ioft. to he»r us and our Cr&-
diiors, in (he city of Philadelphia, at fach plaoe
e where the Court may be held, and where you may
[ attend if you plcafe.
.. PATRICK CAVANAUGH,
JAMES DOUGHERTY,
I'ETER G. ROSE,
JOHN GREENE,
LEWIS D.GRAFF,
JAMES M'CAU-EY.
RICHARD STOKES
dec. 8. 3 : aw 3W
;; lost,
IN one of the flreets between Union and S*f
fafras, on the sth instant, the oulfide Case
of an Epglifh Gold Watch, chafed on thebaak '
with a fhie d. An yperfon who may find the
fame, and will bring to this office, will receive
Four Dollars rewaid> and tbe thanks of the
- owner.
dec. 7.
1, All Persons
e Indebted to the Estate ofHENRY HILL, deceased
y are requested to make payment to the fubferiber ;
j and tliofe baying any demands on the fame to pro-'
e "ducttheir acconnu for fritlcoient.
y GIDEON 11. WEU.S/
no. 139,.Market flreet
Philadelphia, dec. 4, 1798 cots
MAYOR'S OFFICE
REMOVED to 157 South fccond-ftrf«t.
j- ■
IMPO n T L D
In the last arrivals from Bremen,
Hamburg and Amsterdam,
AND FOR SALE,
AT REASONABLE PR ICES A Nli OH A LIBtRAL
CRBDI T, RY
PRATT V KINTZIXG, '
N0.95, North Waicr ftrcet.
215 bales & boxes l icklenburghs,
I hempen linens and oznabrigs from 1/5 to
if P er
70 do. bleached and brown heflians
40 do. brown rolls suitable for cof
fee bags
20 do. Itrong do. do. for cotton do.
30 cheftn platillai 1 Jo. sealing-wax
3 <io. dowlas 3, packages oil-cloth
iia. rrca> ala Morlaix 4 do. fljl-twinf
12 do. I do. watches
15 do. Bi-lefield linen 14 pipes Po " wme
90 do. fsitterhnrnes 9 1 cases claret
45 do Brittanias 13° ' cn £ corked
1 do. HollmJ canvass claret
I do. Rufiia do. 1630 huftfls fine fait
3 do. Ruflia flieetings (O cafk«ofrull brirnßone
I do. ravens duck 100 caiks. of naval itore:..
a do. Ruffu 4rill.n« 50 logs prime mahogany
I do. brown l.ollaud 4 hhds. coffee mills
j do. Silesia rouans 0 bundles German steel
■ 1 ds.Wahreudrop linen 10 chests of fiaus and
1 do. Caraudoles pencils
I 1 do. Flemish linens A package of Ikates
I do. cambricks and A do. woolen caps, &c.
! ] awHS 4 cheils of Nurenberg
1 do diaper toy»
12 do. stripes of yellow ocbre
18 do. checks 3 hhds. Glut
2 do. fiaiuois 8 barrel - , of Eetitilies
I do. Arabia flripe S chetts of prime red
I do. bunting for color crust Holland checfe
I packa. Madras hand- 30 kegs of pearl barley
kerchiefs 60 boxes of capers
I do. Turkey yarn 400 fides of tipper and
6 bales empty bag 9 foal lcatiwr
I chest hair ribband .100 boxes window glass
3 boxes tipes, assorted 800 Demijohns
t d«. bobbin, afiorted 50 boxes glass tumblers
I box threads & tapes aflorted
I do. fine blue liftados 1 hhds. pumice stone
5 chests men's flippers i box of mill saws
3 do. bed ticks I calk of cutlery
1 calls hog's bristles A quantity ot Hone jugs
6 chelts writing paper and pickling pots
4 do. quills A few Ihips anchors, &«•
novcniber 11 tu&ftf
John Miller, junr.
Has returned to the City ,
AND IS REMOVING FROM NO. 8, CHIINUT,
To toe Five Story Untitling, in Dock
near Third-Jlreet-
Where he has for Sale
250 Bales of Bengal Goods;
CONSISTING Off
1 CsiTaes
Baftas
Mamoodies
Humhums
Calicoes
Handkerchiefs, &c. life.
The remains of a Stock of
DRY GOODS,
Conjjling of Woolens only,
AMONCST THIM ARE,\
Cloths
Coatings
Wankets
Ivendal Cottons
llats, &c.
ALSO,
100 Hhds. of Old Rum,
Of a fine flavor, 3d if 4th proof.
1 nov to * $
Forty Dollars Reward.
DESERVED,
From a Detachment of Men under my com
mand, at Camp Wejl SchuyliiH, viz.
Oilober 29.
GEORGE KELLER, 40 years of age, 5
feet 6 inches in height, dark hair and
complexion, bor.i in Holland, no Trade, speaks
broken Er.glifh and very talkative, has a dimple
in his chin.
November 6. John Murphy, 17 years of
age, 5 feet 7 i inches in height, grey eyes, dark
hair and complexion, born in Ireland, city of
Dub'.in, by trade a Hozier.
Jacob Iden, 34 years of age, j feet 6 inches
high, grey eyes, sandy hair, frelh complexion,
born in New-England, state of Connecticut, a
repeated deserter, by trade a Blackfmi'.h.
November 7. William Collins, 3oyeais of
age, 5 feet 6 inches high, sandy hair, frefh com
plexion, grey eyes, born in Ireland, county of
Wexford, by trade a Gardner, has worked for
some time about Philadelphia, hf is very fond
to hear himfelf Sing.
All the above deserters are very much addiil
ed to Uquor, and will rake other people's pro
perty if in their power, are artificially marked
on their backs, had on, when they went away,
sbsir regimental olothing. Whofnever appre
• kends f&id deserters, shall receive forty dollars
s reward, or teK dollars for each, with all reason
' able expences, by applying to me as above,
3 EDWARD MILLER, captain
2d regiment of Infantry commanding.
nov 10 $
~ Charles Campbell,
W AT C H-M A K ER.
XJAS removed to the Shop formerly occupied
j J-J- by Mr. fohn Wood, No, 55, corner of
. Eroatand Chefnut-ftreets ; where he will thank
e fully receive and execute orders with neatness
y and dispatch
HE HAS CONSTANTLY ON HAND,
A Neat and Large Assortment of
Clocks & Watches.
. >
WANTED,
A JOURNETMAN i
/ILSO, one or two Apprentices of refpefla
ble parents.
FOR SALE,
• A large quantity of Watch Glasses
k H'bolrfalc and Retail.
e " ey _ 3 awtf
e Bank of the United States.
November 14, 1798.
NOUCE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
_ ' I 'HAT application will be made at the Trea-
X fury of the United States for the renewal
-nf a Certificate of Six per Cent Funded Debt,
d No. 15,548, for 18,78 a dollars, 33 cents, dated
i Regifler's Office, January &h, 1 798, ilhied in
'■ the names of William Willink, fan Willink,
Nicholas tsf Jacob Van Stapborjl Hubbard,
Trustees for luodry money lenders in Amster
dam; which was forwarded the nth of Janua
rT« '79S> under cover to Nicholas Obbes, esq.
and loft by the capture of the ftip Columbus,
captain Skinner,fromNcw-York forAmfterdim
G. Simpf'jPj cafh'r.
nov 14 iawtw
George Davis's
LAW-800 K S TO R E,
No. 319 High Sikeet,
Latest London £s? Irish Editions.
GKOKGE UAVIS's Fall importation isnow
arranged of which a more capital collec- ,
tion he Ue'ieves was never offered for (ale either ,
:n this City, London or Dublin It combines (
almost every book in,with several valuable books | ,
out of print. Davis's confining himfelf to the ,
sale of Law-Boeks only, it will appear obvious s
to profefiional ficiitlemen, the advantages they .
have both Ilifeloflion and price by purchasing (
from him. '
His Catalogues being ready, gentlemen will
particularly oblige him by cal.ing (or them
and to thole residing at a dilbsce, by fovoring
him with their address (post-paid) they fiiall be
sent.
nov 26 _ m."<thim_
' ADVERTISEMEN [\
Todd & i'viott, f
of the City of Philadelphia, Merchants, having t
alii titled over their cffcifU, real, personal, and ;
mixed, to the f*bfcribers for the benefit of all (
their Creditors—
Notice is hereby Given,
TO all persons who are indebted to the said '
ellate, that they are required to make im- 1
mediate payment of tb:ir refpefliv: accounts to
either of the adignees, in failure whereol» legal
raealures will be taken for the recovery of I'u ch
debts as arc not difchaiged without delay.
yohn Wadding! on ~l
'John Rhodes > Aflignees.
John Allen. J ,
nov. if) tu.th&fatPr
To be Sold,
OR EXCHANGED,
For property in the City, or within Thifty
miles of it, 1
A Valuable Plantation,
IN Tufeorora Valleys Mifflin county,containing
almut three hundred acre*, thevthoie capable
©f cultivation. At present there is about 50 acres
cleared, 20 of which is a rich bottom of Meadow
Ground, enriched by a never failing ftreara, that
has fall and water enough for all the purpoCei of
a Country Mill. For further iniormation a[ ply at S
No. 68, Market fireet.
November 20 taw
NOTICE.
'■pHE Stock-holders of the Company encorporat
* ed for ere Sing a Permanent Bridge over the
River Schuylkill, are requeued to attend their
annual meeting on the firft Monday in January
next (being the ?th day of that month) at the City
Hall, at ten o'clock in die forenoon, for the pur
pose of choofinga President, twelve Dire&ors and
a Treaf-rer of the said Company fer the ensuing
year, as bylaw is direifted,
JOHN DORSEY, fec'y,pro tern,
dec 17 3awt7jjr
A CAUTION T0 THE PUBLIC.
JOHN A. SHAEFFER, ef Philadelphia, who has
for a few years past been in the southern States,
has had the effrontery to draw several Bills of Ex
change on Timothy Pickering, Esq. Secretary of
State, and myfelf.and by that means has defrauded
a number of persons of their money, deceiving
them by an exhibition of letters and papers Wrth the
names affiled of divers public charaileis and repu
table merchants highly recommendatory of said
Shaeffer ; to one of th.-fe papers I find my name
fubferibed, but Ido not know the man ; these are
villainous forgeries! To prevent further imposition,
I have to requeli the of Ncwfpapers in the
United States topublifh this for the benefit of their
fellow-citizcns. SAMUEL MEREDITH,
Treafurtr tf tb: United States.
Trenton, Neiu-
Ottiber 24, 1798* )
NEW A 0V E LS, PLATS,
MAGAZINES,
Chalk's Circulating Library.
No. 75, North Third-Jlreet.
THE Proprietor,in compliance with his pro
mifesto render this Inftitutinu a complete
source of rational amusement and by
repeated icquifitions of entertaining and intereii
ing publications, has now added to his former
col!ei3ion Four Hundred Volumes of miscella
neous works, comprising nearly all the latejl
publi/i.ed Novels and Dramatic productions ;
catalouges of which are ready for delivery to
subscribers.
N. B. Subscribers, and others, who still re
tiin Books taken from the Library previous to
the sickness, are requeftcd to return them imme
diately : the fines will bechargcd/rom the 14th
of November.
English b American Playing Cards,
Sold Who'.efale and Retail.
§s* Wholtlale dealers fupphed with JJoston
Cards at the lame prices as at the manufadlory.
Fine flavored Imperial, Young llyfon, Hylon,
Hyson Skin., and Souchong TEAS.
dec. 13. t/imßw
Valuable Property for Sale.
FOR SALE,
THAT well known Estate, called
SHREWSBURR FARM, formerly the xefidence
ol General John Cadwaladar, fituatx on Safl'afras
River, in Kent county, Maryland—containing a
bout 19CO acres of prime LAND, upwards of 500
of which are in woois. The Buildings are all ex
cellent, and consist of a hnudfome Dwelling Hotile,
two laige Barns with Cow lipufes, Subles for fifty
horses, a fjie<.ioustreadi»g floor under cover, a gra
nary, two 0 verfeer's hpufes, two ranges of two fte
ry buildings for Negroes (uneof them new ar.d of
bricU),C'om houses a Smoak koufe, &c. See —1 he
whole Ellate being nearly surrounded by water, it
requires bu tlittle fsncing, asd has a good Skad and
Herring filhery. It is conveniently situated for
both Vie Philadelphia and Baltimore markets, with
two landings on a navigable river hut a (Wort fail
from Baltimore. There is a large Peach, and two
Urge Apple Orchards on the pretnife*;«lfo, a varie
ty of excellent fruits of different kinds. Tit foil is
roeftly a rick lo»n . —The whole will be fold togc
therordivideduitofmalier farms(lorwhichthe buil
dings are conv.-niently. situated) as may suit the pur
hater. The Stock on said Farm, coslidUg of Hor
cfes, Cattle, Sheep &c. will alio be disposed of.
For further particularsapply to GcoactHASTiNcs
on thepremifes.ortothefubfcriber,inPi.ilaJelpl>ia.
' ARCHIBALD M'CALL., ]un.
, December it. m . t f.
Notice.
ALL, persons indebted to the Ef.
t«tc ol Isaac If liaik, I-Jq dcccafed, ere requeu
ed to wake iimufdiaic pa\inenl, and ihQfc haviqg a
nv demand* agairri\ lai i Kiiaic will pic-l'c to I'urmfh
ihc;r cccountk duly alidlcd /or fntlcfnertt to
CEOUGh DaVH,
A;idiocy in fa6t to
JO'dX M ji.Ad'm'it.
Tec. 12% a Vi'6'.v
THIS n.ir PUBLISHED,
Br WILLI A M rOU NG,
Corner of Chefnut-nd Second-ft recti,
JOANor ARC,
An Epic Poem,
R'itf Smtbey ; with notes.
K do not hesitate to declare our opiaion
that the poetical powers difplayei in it are of a
very superior kind— Conceptions more lofty and
daring, sentiments more commanding, and lan
guage more energetic, will not easily be found :
nor doesfcarcely any part of it fink into languor,
at the glow of feelings and genius animates the
whoU. The language is, for the mod part, mo _
dolled on that of Milton ; and not unfrequeutly, it
has a ltrong rclifii of Shakespeare." .
Monthly Rtvirw, vol. 19,/. 361.
A HISTORY,
oh anecdotes of the
REVOLUTION in RUSSIA,
IN THE, YEAR 1762.
Translated from the Fre»ch of M. de Rulhicre ;
With an elegant Head of the tee Empress.
{[The second editioh, price 75 cents,]
"T . B r< - un^s °f de Rulhiere's information
seem inJifputable, and his readers appear to have,
every rcafon to be fatisfied with his discernment,
in unfolding the motives and circumstances that
concurred in bringing about this linking event. *
*' We {hall only add, that we hare seldom met
with more intcrefting eriginal anecdotes, thai)
those that are contained in the little work which
wo have now reviewed."
jippendixto Mvnibly Review, vol. 11.
Ec r 9 wfScmtra
An excellent Horse &P Chair,
TO be fold i>n rcafinable terms at the Livery
Stable, No. 28 North Third-bcrect,
N. K. 1 lie Horle belonged to a gentlemen in
one ot the Troops in this City.
dec 17 3awaw
ALL PERSONS,
HAVING claim* against the Estate or
SUSANNAH LQCKTER, deceased, are
refuelled t * prelent their refpe&ive accounts t®
NATHAN A. SMITH, 1 '
JOHNDORSEr, J Exet " 6T '*
nov 9 3»w6w
DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA,TO WIT :
BE IT REMEMBERED,
r ( THAT on the twelfth day
V /of Aupuft, in the twenty-third year of
the Independence ot the United States of
America. Benjamin Smith Bcrton, of the sard dif
trift, hath deposited in this office the title of a
book the right whereof ke claims as author in the
words following to wit :
" New Views of the Origin of the Tribes and
" Nations of America—By fanjaniin Smith Bar
" ton, M.D»Correl'ponder.t Member of the Sosie
" ty of the Antiquaries of Scotland, Member of
" the American Philosophical Society, Fellow of
" the American Academy of Arts and Sciences of
" Boflou, Corrcfpondidg Member ol the Mafla
" ohufcUs Historical Society, and Profeffor of
" Materia Mfdica, Natural History and Botany
" in the Univerilty of Peunfylvania."
In coi.lormity to the ait of the Congress of the
United Status, intitled " An ail for the encourage
ment of learning by securing the copies of maps,
charts,and books, to the authors arid proprietor,
of such copies during the times tlier»in mentioned.*•
S/yWUEL CALDWELL, Clerk, Difl. of Penn'
November i, 1798.
Java Coffee,
35a Bags of First Quality,
Now landing from on board the lhip INDTA,
at Mr. Thos. Penrofe's Wharf, and (or lile by
John Ashmead,
No. 165, South front-Street.
WHO HAS ON HAND,
For Salt, on rcafoliable terms,
Cofiaes
Bitus
Black Taffaties, &c.
Her jc eodtf
'Just Imported,
Iron cannon, double fortified, Woolwich proof,
with their carriages complete—3, 4, 6 and 9
pounders.
Catron adei, Woolwich proof, with carriages, Sc.c.
complete— 11, 18 and impounders.
Canno:-: powder in kegs of 2jib*, each
Round, double headed,and cannilUr fliot
Patnit lheathing copper, bright, aflbrtcd 18,20,.
n, 14, «6 and 18 or per ftj«iire foot, ftiects 48
by 14 inches, fuiutle for vtlfels irom loa to
1000 tons r
Copper nails, bqjts and spikes
Boarding Pikes,
Common cutlafles
Gunners stores of all kinds
Tin-plates No I—l-3 cross Wes
Vaunt foot in calks of sc.wt. etch
' London porter and '•town ftsyti«" of 7 doz,
bottled.
Earthen ware In e. arcs, assorted
Far Sale by
SIMON WALKER,
Pine near jth flreet.
. OSober 29. eo tf.
——| H
Injur ance Company of North America*
THE STOCK HOLDERS,
are hereby informed, that a ttated meeting
of the Company will be held ;it their Office
on the Bth of January next, (being tbe fe
qond Tuesday in the Month) for the ele;-
, tion of twenty-five Directors fur the end
ing year.'
E. HAZARD, Sec'ry.
Dec. 12'h.
An Apprentice Wanted.
r J YOUTH,
: Of Reputable Connedtions, & fufikient qiwiificaiior,!,
; is wanted as an Apprtinice to ihe Bufinels.of a No
tiry Public and Conveyancer. —Enquiie ot the Win
ter. _
Dee. r
1
; F 0 R S A L E,
No. 7. South Foo«TH-ST*ai -x
1000 pieces Nankeens,
A Ho* of Silks
20 15"xe» powdered Stigsr Candy of
A parcel iini CnlTia.
r C. HAIGHT.
lor Sale,
A iveU improved Plantation,
Of one hiiuJifd r.nd twenty acrt-E,
VERY hrautifuliy Gamed in the equsty ol
Montgomery, about twenty wUeslromtbe
city.— 1 he tiuildii'gs a« all new and
h as to accon,moiate a ge« Msl fam.ly only —-Fo»
further I'nformatior., enquire at the
Cojt 01-Arms, nineteen miles from town, ar.d
rl.iee above Morris-tow:'. . , , r
■tecember tj fc.Rw .1