/ 7 . , . ..... /. "
fSiltP ||t&ft£ 9 A * D Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Kv Tohn Ward Fenno, N g - iio Chefnut Street.
JSUMEEX 1906.]
c - The Subscribers to this Ga
zetts at Germantown, to whom, j rOTei
fowW to recent difaitrous events) wntl , the ,
their papers not be gg »
directed, will be furniihed with them nUf allri
on "application at the
Germantown, whither an ex
number, for that purpose, will con
ftanlly be lent.
ty Remote Subscribers for this Ga-
lette are resetted to forward pr. port, i )C d>
the arrearages tlue from them respective- >,oU
w pod ma iters who may have receiv- f)6B
edfubfcriptlons are earnestly defireJ to
remit the fame. At this interesting an
diltreiTmg crffis, attention to this notice 3 , 177
will peculiarly oblige the Editor. gj
POST-OFFICE. I'Xa
Philadelphia, September 26. . 8,44
r-fHEMaiI lor Ne*-»Caftlc, Cai-twell bridgf,
L Duck creek, Dover, Frederica, MlUird,
" Georgetown and Delaware !
Trop and Snowhill, Maryland, Horn Town,
A . omioic court-booTe. a»d Northampton court
house, Virginia ; wiil bc c'ojed at this office ev
try Monday, Wednefnay am'.Fn.l.iy at hall past ■
tight o'clock, A. M. ""til «ft day rf.Apn!,
ROBERT PATTON. ]\
' Bank of the United, Statesi 3
Philadelphia, September ai, 1798- °
The public is hereby informed, that lft '
an Office of Deposit and Discount will be opened e q U4 |l]
on Monday next, at 'lie house lately occupied by 3 bly ti
Luim. RiCBAtDST, near the Konfe W fA , of
Oermnr.town— where the bufineft of this InO.tu pofite<
tion wil Uc tranfaded during the continuance o. { Q r£C
the malignant fever now nrevailingm Philadelphia.
HENRY KUKL, AJfiflant Cajlner. thepl
September 11 detern
Bank of Pennsylvania. when
THF Hank of Pennsylvania is remov:d toGer- tu P'
r j»
zr,
September 4 ■ u A—
~ ~ Wanted to purehafe. 1
APPROVED bills on Amsterdam, for which artic[(
cafln will be gi .en at the rate of thirty fe- willil]
iven cents per Guilder. Apply to the Calhier o p r j ce ,
"the Bank of the United States. f 0 t fei
September z-'d. I credit
for Sale. I ki °l
THE Subsc»i»i*. intending to decline the (he f,
DR-UG BUSINESS, offers For bale, the t j le f;
whok Stock of c
Drues and Medicines, Instruments, publi
The (hop is elegant, commodious, and fuffici- any <
entlv known for the extend ve bufinch tone "1 the (li.ll
«hol sal« and v. ta.l U». , the fimauaa [ ar ,b
a.y in the city, being at the col ner of Walnut and 4 t
Second streets. The whole, or any part of the 1 ; nth
q toc k will be fold, as will best suit the purchaser. | p ro p
Th® terms may be known, by to lhe
JAMES MOORE, 3UN. J othe
Wko has For
J nia '
Well calculated tor the.river trade- |
The Peggy, about jotonsburthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably
flout, of an easy draught «f water, rigging m
good order. _ .. 1
The Sally, about 30 tons, lails
well, and in complete order for the lumber business.
All persons indebted to the late firm ol I
C,Xthi*Ht ts* Baldwin, IV. 3. GolMwait, Gol,j
thwuit W Mverr, or the subscriber, are earnestly
rcquefted to make speedy payment to
JAMES MOORE, jhn.
august 3 I
Ship & Insurance Broker,
THE Suhfcribrr, encouraged by the advice I
0i his friends, offers his service to the pub
lic as a Ship and Inl'uranre, Broker. H« pro
tiofes to buy and fell vessels thing re
lating tnereto —aflift mailers of veiTels andothers |
in entering and clearing at the Custom House,
procuring and (hipping freight, fettling Insur
ance and all other mercantile accounts, and have j
hand thenecefiary Blanks anti Stamps. j
Papers in foreign languages translated, and i
information given in general mercantile matters I
From a knowdedge gained by long experience j
of every tuanch of b.ifinefs he hopes to be use- I
ful to those who please to favor him with the ir I
commands. S/tMUEL EMERT. 1
Phila.telphia, auiruft 24th. 9 1
City Commissioners' Office,
Aogost 30, 1798. I
IN purfaunce of an ordinance of the Seleit and I
Comnion Councils, paQedthe aid day of May I
1798, I
Propofalsin writing will be received by the City j
Comw.ifiiouers for one month from tli» firrt of Sep I
•timber next, for letting to rent ok leases for one I
year, to commence the tirft day of Januajy litxt, I
th» following public property of the city—
The wharf and landing -on Vine street, | 0
Also oil Saffafras, I I'
Mulberry, | |
And High streets. It
Chefnutau" \V.l.mt streets, Drawbridge, witl |
«he Scale and Fi(h houfe>, Spruce, Pins and Cedar I
ftrce's.
The Cellar under the City Hall.
The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill I
with the lots contiguons thereto (except so much I
thereof as (hill be occupied by any buildings erec- I
ted for tlve use of the ColleAor of the Tolls, or be t
jiect ITary for the toll gates.)
A stated meeting of the City Commissioners will I
be hel lat the City Haljevtry Tuefiay morning t
ten o'clo k, during theprefent epidemic, eoim
TO BE LET,
And immediate possession given ;
A Large convenient, well finilhed hoiife, N»
Hlgh-ftreet, lately occupied by Doc
tor VViftar, with C»Jch boufc and Stables
Enquire of WILLIAM SHE/IFF,
fr'o 168, Hizb-Jlrtet.
*:>•J
/
~phi LAD Et >H 1A: FRIDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 26, 1798. ['/olvm* XIV.
± - -
.... - - y n -Y r ( '
Public Notice is hcrety Given,
'PHAT I'roßofals undtr feiled cover*, will be
1 revived 01 the behalf of the United Staves
until the twentieth day of Oaober next, by Jo- As W?
Nathan Jacklon, Esq. it Boft,n, Maffacbufetts, ■#*, «*
Tench Frdncis, Esq. Philldelphta, Pennlylva- ttsufcoj
nia, an, John Swann, Esq. at Baltimore Ma
ryland, far supplying the following arhcles o.
cloathmg, for the army of the Unit;U States,
FOR INFANTRY.
7,448 Hats, ;of this p<
504 Serjeant Colts rnift to h
504 ditto vests cases, wk
I,9oß'pairs do. woollen overalls infallible,
1 1,008 ditto do. linen dllto irvirate r
i,oi6 ditto (hirts W>W/
164 Mufiei3ns coala per/cms, 11
r;68o Privates eoates tick and m
> 7,944 ditto vests a "t tb "»S
) 15,888 ditto woollen overal.s is iikcxvi(
I *i.W ditto linen ditto
3,,776 ditto (h.rts ljfe rl
33,79 a pairs of Socks above di
- 33, 7 2» pairs of (hoes . so it has
8,448 itocksof black leatner I Mahy, 1
8,448 itock claips fm of tl
8,448 blasketo. tient wh
;> FOR CAVALRY. attofedi
6 Msficiajis coats
1' 16 Serjeant coats , y p)ace
rt ditto vel.s proper d
v _ 104 ditto fi.irts dollar,.
H 348 Privates coats Xhe 1
ji 354 ditto veils ;„g f 0 g
1416 ditto ihirts jterfon >
76a pair of Leather breeches will pie;
760 pair of ilockings hand is
760 pair of boots lsng tin
380 Stocks of black leather ported,
0 380 Stock clafpa theinve
' ' 380 Uhnkets. . , nic.-.ted
at ift. Every article (hall be made of materials, n. B
ieil equally good, and in form, or fathion, conform- J e r mu
ably to patterns for the fame, sealed with the day.
m leal of the War-Office, and which will be de- Wet
tu polited with the several gentlemen, empewered this citj
to receive the piopofsls, as above mentioned!. r> '
" a - 2 d. Sworn Infpeftois (hall be appointed on *y certi
the part of the United States, to examine and
L_ determiee upon the several articles aforelaid,
when the fa»ne stall be ready for delivery, with c j ae cc
, er . full power to rejedl every article, which lhall not t j ie
Sled in goodnefi* of materials, or to be made
conformably to, the falhion of the standard pat
r. tern for the fame; and no allowance (hall be
§ made, for any article which dull be rejefted by (
them, for the causes afortfaid.
3d. The proposals muftfpecify the number of
l!ck articles, and their kinds, which the party is
fe " willing to furni b, together with, tke lowest
:r 0 prjees for immediate payment in money, a«d al
so tbe prices, on the lotigeft term, or terms of Mr.
credit. , „ , woun^
One third of each, and every of the several tion, 1
kinds of the above articles, to be delivered on aug
the the fifteenth day of December, one third ou
the the fifteenth day of January, and the remaining
third on the firft day of March next; and the Qj
public will not be considered as bound to receive
(Eci- j any 6f the aforeiid articles ofclosthing, which XJK
II the I (full not be ready for infpeflion, and delivery, J
1 and J The cloathing aforefti3 will be reccivea
the j in the several slates, at the places, and in the
*f er -1 proportions following, viz. One third part of Sir,
v j the whole »t Springfield, Mjd'achufetts, one
N * 1 other third at Philadelphia, ftateef Penafylva- borec
j nia, or at Lamberton, of New-Jersey, and fpitu
I oh» third at Baltimore, Maryland. tl0 "'
Jfc. j No contrail will be made, for a less to be
Pyr number of each of the aforefaid articles of inj; t
_ I than is rcquifite for a company, viz < ness
FOR THE CAVALRY. D^'
tICH, J Serjeant Coats soon
kably j 4 ditto veils ous
n g ' n I 16 ditto (hirts I bit
I 1 Musician Coat I be!
fails j 58 Private coats ham
ifinefs. I 59 ditto veils f»tr
irm ol I 236 ditto (hirts whe
, Gab-1 63 ftosks it i]
■neftly I 63 stock clasps thol
126 pair of leather breeches
hn. I pair of ilockings
5 I 126 pair of boots
63 blankets
r , FOR THE INFANTRY. i
»dvice 70 Hat, jf 'g
e pub- I 4 Serjeant coats si
' pro- 4 ditto veils sice
ng re- 3 ditto woollen overalls
others g d ; tto l inen ditto p V
I ditto (hirts e !
Infur- j t Musicians coats . rl
d have J 64 Private coats
• 1 66 ditto veils
d, and] j; tto woolen overalls
natters ,32 ditto linen ditto. h^!
erie.ice 2^4 ditto S v, r ts
be use- I jgg p a ; r 0 f Socks r ° r
h the ir I 4 g o p a j r 0 f Shoes,
*"• I 70 Stocks,
9 70 Stock Clasps, cr
p 70 Blankets. c ".
' „ JAMES M'HENRY, W1
lea and , Secretary .f VV«".
of May War Department, 7
21ft Sept. 1798. 5
the City I \ n
iof Sep Weft-Indian from Madeira. |*
for one I
- I (Cj* Tbofc Gentlemen who liave Wines „
Jon board the Weil-Indian are informed (he is a
I now discharging at South-street Wharf, are so- u
I licited to hailen down their permits, the Vessel b
I being immediately wanted, Peter Bhght.
8 5'p W il tl I Who wants to Purchase, n
ico Barrels of good Prime or Mess Beef a
] 100 ditto Pork y
:huylkill I 7or 800 ditto fine Flour ii
so much j 4or 5:00 bu(hels Indian Corn. t
ngs erec- I LANDING
Us » or bc 1 From the West-Indian,
oners will! choice parcel of Phelp's old particular
orninir t t ne ln Pipes (it for Immediate use.
cnim au K" ft *5 - slot
0- Wanted—Actuation in aPub
ven l lie or Merchants Office, or to go as Supercargo,
lonfe, No by a pet son regularly brought Hp, to the Mer
bv Doc- cantile and Insurance bufineis in London, he has
abies— lately been a voyage fioin hence to the Weft-In
-IFF, dies as Supen argo, can be well recommended,
'-Jlreet. —Please to enquire at the Printer's
§ august 11
HAPPY DISCOVERT.
A certain Cure fur that alarming and dreadful Difirdcr S
The Yellow Fever, /V lai
As -well as any niher dangerous pu'r 'td fever, fever at*d upw
/7rarr, and other inveterate a»'d compiiatsddifeaftsy by ve ' c - t * ie
tb: use of tbe
POUDRE UNIQUE, * Sw"
WELL known and patented in Kagland,France, QKe j lusl i J . (
Poland, and all the capital Cities in Europe, , r ,
where the mofi jftomlhing cures have been effect- | jn J m
ed on persons judgei incurable by all physicians. a | rca< jy n .
In printed in London, on the properties watcte j .
of this powder, by T..Seymour, M. D late Che-, a c
mist to his Majellr, there are flawed two hundred com plctel'
cases, where this most valuable remedy has proved 0 f t '
infallible, in all liud of fevers, f'.eurify, blecdy flux,
irrverate rhenmatifms, sciatica, apcp.'exy, patalyfie, yet- j. t le u j..:srr
low jaundice, ringworm, tvoi ms if children and in grozrn |} a
perfotts, vthitej, chronical head and fltmacb aches, hfa- n^ e( j s -, t t ]
tick and nepbretical or flone cbolic, /'■- kings evil, [curvy j aea p 0 [
and the m«JI inveterate and complicated venereal disease. It ficient to
isiikewife the bell preparative for thu fraall pox building t
and nuafles; ol the greatell utility for young as j ir „ e
well as for elder ladies at the critic d epoch of their •
life. The efficacy of this powder in of the with anu
above diseases fcas been dilcovered by chance, and trees
so it has beeu in the yellow fever last year, by Mr. trees-
Mahy, who cured several by adminifleririg only u[l ,i cr ,r 0(
two of the said powders, and loft not a single po- vl r^,j
tient which he undertook to curs, as proved and ma j n j er
arte'.led by the here annexed certificates, whose ori- who
ginalmay be f:en at Andrew Hadfrg s umhrella Jhop,
A",. 131, comer of Chefnut and Fourthflreets, the on- cnt p yrts
ly place where these powders are to be had, with try
proper dircftions for the ul'e of them.—trice t-.uo Jv „ - n
dollars. ' dated w
The uf-fulnefs and certainty of this remedy be- ; 10rfc#i b
ing so great for so many dangerous disorders, aay far farn
person wilhing to be provided with those powders, ce ]| ent r
will pleal'e to apply very soon, ?s the quantity at ; s twent'
hand is rot very large, and it is doubtful if for a dria) , it)<
lsng time, or if ever any other genuine will be im- (he
ported, thefecret remaining only in the hands of f rom t v, a
the inventor, in Europe, and never lieing commu- lrom A j
nicated to, or discovered by any othsr person. the rc
N. B In the yellow and putrid fevers, this pow- (W(J an
m- der must betaken tha lecond, or at loafttly; third rcma ; n( j
he day: jj r ;
fe We the fubferibers, durirg the late fieknef» in (
red this city, having taken the yellow fever, applied to (; tuat ; or
Wr. %'ahy for his medicaj assistance, we do here
on ly certify, that by a certain powder, called the
int | Poudre Unique, we ware perfedlly recovered from Virgi
id the said fat il Ccknefs, and from an experience of . g ®
- I j* the happy sffetfts of the above most valaable medi- .—^
ciae, consider it our duty to make the fame known,
n for the benefit of our fellow citizens.
Margaret Jones, ttT[
>4t " / Mylus O'Connor, \y
be JelTe Turner, affignec
by - t , Christen Rebecca Dow, mixed,
Catherin Apple, their c'i
r of Ann Grover, ment w
r is William Bills, jjq-|
vest David Williams, carpenter, w j, lo „
lal- William T.Donaldfon, mast-maker. requ i r e
los Mr. Mahy's well known Plaifter, for all kind of pe( jiiv<
wounds and fores, to be had at the above direc- jj 0 g 3
eral tion, No. 131, Chefnut street. wi jj
lon august 8 »awtf are noi
ou -——
ling ANOTHER STRONG PROOF
Of the great and unparalleled efficay of
"ich £>*. CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS,
er) -, Ir the Care of augi
. 1 I^'Coughs, Colds, Asthmas & Consumptions.
ivea ffll 1 > *> y«fy I°, ' 7^-
, the To Dr. Church, "T^H
rt of Sir, J.
one For upwards of Twelve Tears, I have la s ma ll
iilva- bored under a severe Cougk, ihortnefstif breath arid si.
, and spitting of matter from my lungs and often of furthe
ciotted blood, till at length I was so reduced as aus
1 less to be unable to walk across my room, and ow- ~
cs of ing to the vi lence of my cough and the Ihort- rOf
, viz ness of breatb could get no reil day or night. —
' Hearing of your excellent medicine, ( the Cough
Drops, I procured a bottle ; I took a dose as 10
soon as I got it, from whi.ch I found irrflantane-'
ous relief, and by continuing it for three days, , ;
I bless God lam restored to perfedl health. As
I believe you to have been the inffrument in tbe j n
hands of Providence, of saving my life, I r®utt -p (
itttreat you to publilh this for tlu* benefit of any
who may be in my situation, as I am confident
it is one of the befl medicines in the world for (
those complaiiMs.
I am, Sir, yaw grateful servant' 4
NICHOLAS STAGG, w
Little Robinson-street. IC
CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS, i
Are prepared and fold by thelnventor and sole x6e
proprietor, Dr CHURCH, at his Difpsnfary,
Walhington-ftreet, New-York, and at his of
fice, No J, South Third-ftrect, Philadelphia, _J
and fpld by appointment at Mr Weedman's 118
William-llreet, and Stilwell & Detoreft, 162
Pearl-street, New-York. Mancius, Albany,
Price, Baltimore, Thomas, Alexandria, Wil
son, Wilmington, &c. &c.
OBSERVE,
As a counterfeit preparation of this medicine
has been industriously circulated through some
of the principal cities in the United States, per- °'
sons are requefled t<> purehafe them of such per
sons only as have Dr Church's appointment for
vending the sam?. Powers, 1-oughkeepfie
Chappel, Head of Elk —Bond and Co. New
caflle—Hemitfh, Lancafter —Blauvelt, Bruflf
r-iY wick (N.J.) Gordon, Trenton, &c.
War *** P at,ents letters (Port paid) addressed to
Dr Church, New-York, duly attended to.
august 20 2aw3w
ira. i Public Notice is Hereby Given,
PURSUANT to'he ail of Congress, pal Ted
on the I2ih day of June I 79 8 > entitled, r ,
Wines it an refpecling Loan Office and final fettle
le.'s ment certificates, Indents »f interest, and the
, arelo- un f„ n d ec j or regillered debt credited in the
w Vessel bo oks of tbe Treasury." . in
Might. ift, That on the application of the creditors q|
, refpeflively, or their legal attornies at any time
Jeef after the last day of December in the present
year, the princi al furns of the unfunded or re- -
giftered debs of • the United States credited on
the books of the treaftry, or commifijoneis oi
Loans will be reimbursed at the treal'ury of the n
United States.
*I. That interest upon the unfunded or re- j
particular gifted debts aforefaid will cease from and as- 1
ter the last day of December in the present year. t
y ,ot That the Creditors refpeflively will be \
entitled on requisition to receive from the pio- j
i aPub- per officers of th« treasury, certificates ff fund- (
oercareo, ed three per cent stock, equal to thf arrearages
the Mer- of Interest due oa the debts aforefaid prior to
>n, he has tbe firft day of January, one thonfand seven hua-
Wrft-ln- dred and ninety one.
nmended By order of the Board •/ Commissioners
nmenncd, J the Sinking-fund,
Edward Jones, see'ry.
FOR SALE, Tli
SALISBURY ANDfORS
A LARGE and well improved farm, contain
, XjL upwards of twenty-live hundred acres ol >e / 0
vel fertile land, remarkably well adapted to grals, ON th(
and every kind of grain; there are now oca hun- French
- dred acres ol Timothy meadow on it, per aps no a ttenipts t
excelled. fro«i which, I have cut this year e.wcen States, ant
• one hundred and eighty, and two hundred tops ol in Coiigre
• hay; upwards of three hundred acre-, mor. *1 tt'M sent
land may be converted into meadow, equal to that tativi£
' already Blade, the greater par# of which may be
' watered at a fmr.U expence. There are ®n this 10
f land, a comisodious two (lory dwefuvg-houle,
completely finilhed, with ten rooms and a pafTage, Q n fuefi
1 eight of the rooms h..ve fire places; a poruco
' front, fifty Icet in length, and eight wide; a large Jj
pa!ed garden, a well of excellent water in theya.u
' also a barn seventy-two feet by tw.enty-fix, wi h bUJ)
' (beds at the fides and ends, lafficieEt to hoiu-Gxty xhre( . anij
" heap of black cattle, a t well conttructed liable, ui - Frankfi
1 ficient to hold twenty horses ; with etery other
building that may bc convenient or u(eful for a. rp,
s family; upwards of three hundred appJc trees
r (jnft beginning to hear) of chafen graited fruit, . point oh
• with a number of cherry, pear, quince, and dame- j near the .
son trees, upwards oi two tbouland bearing pcac.i oi the 1
r ' trees. About one fourth of the land is cleared, aud ; Lity„rui
y under good fencr ; the parf'ure lands ars we.l taken, I country 1,
l " with red clover and other valuable grals. ■he re- Any
. mainder is in woo'ls and generally well timbered, g.ounds,
The whole is well watered, having several constant onthepr
P' springs ; and two dreams running through differ- arde;'s cc
V" cnt parts thereof, on one of them is a small coua- The
try grilt mill, and afaw mill. The purchaser can ra3 de kn
have immediate possession, and may be aceommo- j Shou
dated with twenty valuable field negroes, Wlt b bovc mei
c ~ borfes, black cattle, (beep, bogs, and every neccl- j n( . xt £ a j r
fary farming titcnfil. Salilbury is situated in ex- j
rs ' cellent neighbourhood, and remarkable healthy.l Cl s o fo
- is twenty-fix miles by measurement from Alexan-1 : _
a dria, about twenty milts IVom Potomack bridge at 1 1
n ". (he Little Falls, and not more than twenty-five
ol from the city of Washington, and on the poll road >, y 0 j
u " lrom Alexandria to Wincheßer. A small part of a,
the purehafe mone>; wfll bc required in hand; one, I [JC ft|y ri
kV " twe, and three years credit will be given for the l, or r ;
r remainder. . I svith thi
Mr. Zaccheus Collins of Philadelphia will give | been fei
any gentlemen who apply to him an account of the i this cau
to situation of this plans. For further particuUrs ap- By Or
r . e * nlv te the fubferiber on the premises. I Sitting
he h > SAMUEL LOVE.
D ™ Virginia, Fairfax county
" f September 24, 1798. T)^
% —Advertisement: !^ ate c
1 Stat«.«.
WHEREAS Jam es Cdmming 15" Co. late ol I inches
the city of Philadelphia, merchants, have I born ir
assigned over all their effefls, real, personal and to rtie
mixed, to the lubferrbers, for the benefit of all reuded
their creditors, who (ball fubferibe the said assign will en
ment within fix months from the date hereof. | prehen
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, to all person* jail wi
who are indebted to the said estate, that they are the ab
required to make immediate payment of their re(-
dos pedfive accounts, to the Assignees, at their office, Ncv
rec * No. 62, Dock street, in failure whereof adion- -j
---will be instituted for the recovery of fuck debts as I „ j,
" are net discharged accordingly. I I_J
John Travis, ~1 I Rodma
John Waddington, I A{ n znee , J f <
James Taylor, f I tlon >'
S, Cornelius Cvmegys J
august 18 mwft ' P ton S
t TO BE SOLD," "wi
THE time of an indented Dutch Servant BO\ ur t0
who has ten years to serve. -He has had the
r e la small pox and measles, is adive, hearty and ftronf;.
eath aivd fit fcr house work in town or country, ror
n of further information, enquire ©f the priater.
ad as august 4 t—
hort*- For Sale,at the Stores of the Sub- B^:
it.— fcribers, on Walnut street Wharf, Tern
DU B h 105 caflu of nails assorted »' c
le as 20 bales of fail canvass, from No. Itp 8
tane- 5 , ca (ks yellow ochre 0
days. i j tiefies bottled porter, 6to 14 (loz. each
As London particular ? M(l( jeira Wines Bud
n tb ,f India market ) v . AH,
r » ,IU Teneriffe do. in hogfheadsand pip in
' an y Old Port do. in hhds.
atle , nt Empty Claret bottles _ . and
Id tor 6 cases of Ginjbams, Dimities, wluflinetj &c. S b!
assorted for tbe Weii-India market the!-:
4, 10, and 9 jpch cables and 10 coils of cordage ro n,
' Writing slates, ink (lands and preflcs oths
~eet» 20 purcheoas Jamaica rum to 1
I bale seaming twine don
id sole i£o bundles sheathing paper C
nfary, Nicklirt iSf Griffith.
lis of- . tuth&f.tf
•Iphia, a P ril 1
Bengal Goods,
Ibanv. CONSISTING GF qua
Wil- BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS, the
Chintz ColTas Maharaz^.igy
Chintz Guzzinas' Tookereys | ,
edicine Eliabad Baftas ' Wrought Mullins
, c Long Drawers
" Coarse Sugars in bags, fit for the European markets
P er ' also, t
c P^ r * Carolina Indigo J
lent ror Coffee in hoglheads .
e Px, _ A few pipes of very old and very choice Madeira w
, New- 1 WINF. ■
Bruhf- For Sa i e en reasonable terms, by a '
John Craig, ,h
effed to ' U oi tl> Dock-itreat. a s
to. July I 4 mwstf > £
W3W J _
- NOTICE.
'i yen s Bank of North America, 1
, paflW August 28th, 1798.
entitled, t-v-ihoSE Perf«ns who hive N»'eiot Bills to pay
*1 fettle- at t hisßank are informed,
and the -pbat regular Notices will be put under a lealed
in the caver directed to the refpeflive payer and lodged
in the Poft-Office every Monday until the return
:reditors o f t hecitizens. r. / •
jny time RICHARD ELLS, Caft.H
present aug. 29
dited'on SOUTHWARK.
joners of OSober 8, 179^*
yof the -j-jublic NOTICE IS HEREBY
W GIVEN, That the Commissioners of «
1 an °d tf- the Dillria of Southwark have removed
sent year, their Hall to the usual place, commonly
f will be known by the name ot James Lille's School.,
the pro- Htuifc, in confcquence »f the rapid decline
I*f fund- of the Epidemic Fever, especially in the
arrearages v j c ; [(lty thereof.
Pr '°o 0 By order of the Board of Commifftoner
even hun- W m. LINNARD, Pref.dent.
oners Attest,
g\Fund, WiLt-lAM y»hKt>Sl, Clerk, pro Icm.
ee'ry. j Qftcbcr f |
This Day is Published,
ANDfORSALt B-V J-f EJINO, I »9,C«1« NUT-II RUT
an address
To the People of Maryland,
ON the origin, progress and prefVat ftatc .o
~ French ajjgrelhon, with a iketch of the infumoyt
attempts t» degrade the Government of the United
?. States, and some refleclions on the late proceedings
in Cor.grefs; written the last of April in the pre
* fait year, by* Member of the House of Reprefcn
' tatives. 5 junr if
3 To be Sold, a: Public Sale,
'■ On the Preratfcs,
u * On Tuefilay the 2sd Jay of Oftjbrr, 1798, at
e half pajl two o'clock, in the afternoon,
l* Several very elegr.nt Situations for
h SUMMER RETREATS,
Three and an half miles from the Cour' house near
Frankford road, being part of the fubferiber's
estate.
* These situations are confiderecl in
t, 1 point of health, beauty and elegance, equal to any
5- ' near the city ; commanding a very exteniive view
■h i of the Delaware, the {flipping in the harbour, the
id; <J.ity„Harrowg3te,Frankford,and fcveral elcganc
n, i country fiatt.
e- Any perfoti dtfirous of viewing the
d. grounds, will ple'afe apply to HENRY HAINES
nt on the preaiilis. or to the ful-fcribcr, jit Mr. Rich
r- jrdel's coffee house, Germantown.
The terms, which will be easy, will be
an made known at theiime of sale.
°" | Should the weather prove bad on the a
lf I bove mentioned day, the sale will take place on the
next fair day, at the fame hour.
:x " ' W. MACPHERSQN.
'J' I cSober 9. dtijO
at! Pennsylvania Holpital,
' vc I 9 mo. I, 1798.
I XT 0 P 3|, f° B with an mfeOioys difcafc, can b©
I Jl\ admitted into this house; it is therefore ejtr
nc * I neftly recommended to the citizens, not to fend
t^ie I or i ring any such patient to the gate, who is ill
I with the prevailing fever. Several person shaving
" ive I been sept here improperly, is the reason of giving
j this caution.
SP ' , By .° r »7 ° f the HfGGlNS,Strzu'J*
I bitting Managers, j
Ten Dollars Reward.
J T"\ESERTED from the Guard House in New—
I \J CalUe, this morning, Stephen Bowdem, a
1 private Marine, belonging to the Frigate United,
I States. He is akout 36 years of age, five feet ten'
' ot 1 inches high, fair compievion, light hair, blue eyes
ave I born in England, and by trade a Bricklayer. Prior
and I to the Jth of June, the date of his enliilm-nt, hf
f all 1 reuded in Philadelphia, where it is probable ha
ign I will endeavour to go. Any j>erfon,who will ap-
I prebend the said deserter, and secure him in any*
fens I jail within the United State?, (hall be entitled to
* are I the above reward.
res- F. WHARTON, Cape. Marines,
ffice, J New Castle, o<St. 8.
ion ; TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
" a " I TAKSERTED from my Detachment at Borden
-1 1 J town this day, a Marine, by name Gmgr
I Rodman, a Native of Ireland about 25 years of age
1 siva feet eight or Bine inches high, dark complec-
ICeS I tion,black hair tied; black eyes well made and
I quarrelsome, when iH liquor is fond of singing—had
] j-j Jon a blue seaman's jickett light pantaloons, cot-
I ton Stocking', round Hat, and had inler his Pan-
I taloons a pair of Nankeen Breeches.
I Whoever apprehends and fends the said Dcfer-
BOTi t(t . t0 Marine Camp, (hall receive the above
I Reward.
For 1 Oftoberlf, .798 Lt . Marincs
« ' PROCLAMATION.
1 1 T)Y virtue of a precept from John D. Coxr„
>U D- jj Esquire, president of the court of Oyer and
Tcr miner and general goal delivery for the trial of
all capital and other offences in the county of
jj Bucks ; rnd Henry Wvnkoo. and Francis
Murrav, judges of the fame court —A court of
ach Oyer and Terminer, and general goal delivery,
will be held at Newtown, in the said county of
Bucks, on Monday the sth day of November next.
All those who will prosecute against the prisoners
in the goal of said county, are required to be then
and there to prosecute against them as {hall bejuft—
and all the justices of the peace, coroner* and con
;t» &C. stables, within the said county, are required to be
then and there,in their proper persons, with their
ordage ro |l Si records, ir.quifitions and examinations and
other their remembrances, to do those • hings which
to their o2xces belong, in that behalf to be
done, &c. DANIEL THOMAS,fheriff.
0a.4, 179&- 3taw_
FLOUR FOR SALE
By the Subfcribcrs,
Deliverable at any of the ports o« the Dela.
ware ,—who have also on hand at their stores, a
quantity of Bar Iron, Pork and Corn —Letters by
5, 1 the post will t>e attended to.
Levi HoUingsivorth & Son.
ns augull *B. dtf
WILLIAM M'LAWb,
markets SADLER & HARNESS MAKER,
HAS Removed to the Corner of Chefnut
and Twelfth-ftreets, on the
Madeira where he will receive and execute the order# of
his friends and wholesale customers, with usual
atteption & expedition during the prevalence of
■ lr the present Epidemic, where it has not made it»
street. appearance this season, nor during any of the
mwstf years i}--
— aueuft ™
FOR SALE, -
The Cargo of the S<Jir. Smcerity
1798. Benjamin Monteith Master, from Lagaira,
lis to pay ceNSUTtKC or
94? Fenegas of Qocoa
r a sealed 4000 lb. of Flora Indigo
id lodged aio Bales of Cotton
le return 4 Packages of Goat Skin*
gy Willing! & Francis.
lajt.it.'. No. Eleventh llreet.
dtl iulv t'. dtf
Madras and Ventapaukm
8 HANDKERCHIEFS,
EREBY Searfaukers and Carradarries,
doners of »f the weweft and mod approved patterns,entitle*,
. 10 the drawback, just receiveC,
removca for ?ale By
jcntrooly AUit . J, Miller & C*.
s School*
No. 64, South Front ftrcet.
A decline ,g. j
J thc FOR SALE, BV
1 mijjtoncr J OHN jV'i ILLEIIj JUN%
:fident. no. 8, chesmut street,
100 hogllieads RUM*
tern. Of high piettf a»i fiae flateuz
ft ji»ly 1JRemoval.
THE office «f the wcretary »f the Conomiflion
ers !or carrying into cffeS the twenty-firll
article of the treaty ef 1 ricndfbip, limits and navi
gat ion. between Hit Catholic Majesty and t'le U
nited States of America, i«,for the present, ramav
*d from No 54, Couth Second ilreet, to a large
tWo (lory brick house on the right hand, gaint
«r» t l Oermantown road, L-fu4Uy called Matters'
WMb.
. J hole concerned arc informed that, notwith
Guiding the prevalence of the fever in Philadelphia,
daily attendarce ha 9 b«en, and will contidue to be
given at the faii office, tintil the fetu{ii of the citi
zens ; -V tliat on ;ha seventeenth day of November
new, the'tenia of eightoen/months will expire since
the day on which the comm iffloncrs aflemHUd
after wiiicli jtcriod no complaints'of-applications
can poWjly be received by them
Letttts andinclofures poft-pa(d trifl bedaly at
■l tended /• tj.
PETER LOHR \, Secretary.
Oaoher rg, f 98. § lot i
1 A French Classical £sf Mathematical
SCHOOL.
WILL be openrd 011 Monday the nd. Infla»t
at that large commodious room formerfy
Occupied by Vis. Leo 111 NorrisN Alley, No. 15,
ne ai 'y oppolite the City Tavern; under the direc
tion of VT'ffrs S i ith and Chancer both of libe
ral edwcdtinn, and long experienced in their re.
fpeSive piofelDons—they intend under, the
patronage of a discerning public, permanently
to e/tatu (h themselves in thi» uai'ertakiug their
who'? (hif'y .ml a'terrtion will<>e Unvoted to the
iniprovenicnt ot their pupihi.—Thefe willbetun
duoied the !.ttell nd nioft approved plan>,
through cui>lp!ete course A acaJt-nx'cal ftu'ies,
or th fe [ arts ou iy that may be pointed out, is mors
imnivriiit.eiji >dspted to their particular views in life
—Certain portions or their 'ime will lie affighedfqr
geographj ,hiltt compcfition, and de
elamitions in Trench aud Englirti, i» order to form
early habits of writing aud fptakin j with propri
►y—Vifits from pan nts an 1 liter :rv charaiters,
tending to excite a spirit of euiulatioa, will be
gratefaily received. The hours of ilndy are from
J to it A. M. and from Iso 5 P. M
They offer to tranflatethc Englifli,French,Spanifh I '
*nJ PortugueCe language*; and to draw in th.-lf j
proper modes and ftilr, *ll I-m t !s of w.iting, whe- '
ther legal, commercial, or epistolary. ° '
ihe fiift Monday id aifo pro
tofe to open an evening school for hook- 1
eeping.furveying and navigation, of which they ■*
have a pradUcal as well as theor«ucal |
As a number of l'rcnchgentlemen will attend, The 1
K uflcnt - of their lang»ige, by continually converf
in» with them, as v.-tU as their teachers, will at- r
quire, alor.g with the principles, a facility of ex- -
pre (Son.
AVIS aux FRANCOIS :
Meff'rs Chandler et Smith ont (,
, Thsnncir d-- prvwmt M.M les Francois, qtms le
propof tit d'eraW-.r une en Norri« ;v?ley, T"
No. 15 • prefqu; vi<-a-vis a Brurfe ; dans la- ' d
juclU oaeiif-giera la lan 3 ue Latine, Angloife et [ '
Franc life : l'Arithnirtiijue, !a tenue des livret, la !
Geographic et les Mathemidiques.
On 'ait aufii -outes for:es de trarfufliftni dans les
d'.tes langu -s: et d#-nne lecons chez les particulars.
Qu'on f'adJrcffe a l'hotc) de Mr. Vallctte au '
, cqin "1c 4 'nii* rue et Chetry alley.
Oaoler tj. _ eod tf
• GEORGE DAVIS,
' I A KES this opportunity of informing ■P c
his fnenrls generally, that so soon as the pre- i
sent fictnetiwill aJmir it, he proposes to offer for j H
. 'all?, the ir.olt extrnfive collet ion <>f p ( l
LAW BOOKS, tiz
he ever imported, or that was ever imported into i foi
the Utiited States.— Hie lase arrivals have brought %
„ hini n uiunber of extremely valur.b.'e and fiarce p
BOOKS and thuife cxpcifled, will greatly add to f,
. the quantity. ■«/
Qiftciber it. f"o J 2w T)
Batsk of Pet/n/ylvawa,
Septcmiier ;d, 1798. > r
WHEKEAS the Hour at present occupied
by the Bank of IVnnfylvania was enter
eel on tte night of the fii ft inllant, by some riT
lams, who robbed the mftitution of sundry
Eat;k Notes, aniongf) whkh were the follow
ing port. notes of the Bank of N«w-York, viz.
No JOO2, dated 13d r f August, 1798, Dolls <
ilTued in favor of Seabring Sc
Van Wyck, for 39 »
No lc*3, dated nth of Auffift, 1798,
iflued in saver of Montgom
ery and Newbold for. tzjo
No iec6, 17th do. do. do. 1000 "]
loo;, , do. do. do. do. zooo (. e f o
1008, do. do. doi do. 2000 l
JOO9, do. do. do. do. 2003
1010, 28th do. do. do. 2coo rem '
1011, do. do. do. 2000 dy I
icu, 30th do. do. do. 1500 thei
">!.?> do. do. do 00. 1000 thej
Also fur.drv post notes of the Bank of Penn- 0 f e!
rylvania, dated 23d July 1797, iflued in favor § e[) .
of George Hughes, for one thoul'and dollars , '
each, and sundry post notes of said Bank, da- .. 1
ted 15th of July, 1797, iflued in favor of Geo. ' ieve
Huphcs, for five hundred dpllacs each and in °f &
doi-fcii by him. The public are hereby Camion- nuc
e<l atjjinl receiving the said notes, and a re- their
ward of TIVO THOUSAND DOLLARS is ret ,d,
cfTcred for th- difiovery and ronvidlion tents
of the vill.iins who perpetrated or are concern
ed in the said robbery, in addition to the reward
offered by the Governor of the Commonwealth ceavi
in his Proclamation of this day. who
Bv order of the Board, the t
* JONATHAN SMITH, caftier. 1 habit
TEN DOLLARS REWAKO. j ble a;
DESERTED tail night, a fecohd time, from mova
tl e Marine Cahip, Dav'nt Lupfr, a fife*.— Provi
He had when he went away, a plain tluejackit and
TeH,ligln blue overalls, a (.ound hat, which had been P ,e * a
bnou'd with yellow, and which he had ripped off pofllb
rn hi-firft deftrtion, and a pair of new Bioe«. he is earnei
a Carpenter by trade, has grey eyes, far.dy h:tir comir
f illow complexion and a nitdi in his upper lip. 1
His back is Atll fore from a flogging h. got a few
4ayi ago. He may be discovered by hit fifeing, ""era
as he pk»y» extremely widl. the pjl
W. W. BURROWS Major Com. of the
Marine Corps. p e i
O&obtr 17. n/•»
.— j, rbuai
A Young Woman from England
wculd wifli to **g«ge with a lady, in the-capacity
•f Lady's-niaid,or i« the station oi a House-keeper,
in a gcnterl family, or to a fiiglc gen'leman. A,
good recommendation can fe procurrcd front fame encarr
of the most families in this city. For Poild,
particulars enquire at the printing »ffice of John miles
W Fe'nno.
s%.x\ 1. m caunti
Z immcc
STAMPS. for ' h
Pursuant to the Ael of Congress, paf
ltd on th* ninth day of July, 1798, entitled 1
VAn Acl to [>rovide. f< t the valuation of lands ■ ' cra
and- dw-Hing hont" *«d the enumeration of 'hers,
fttves within the United States,"- —NOTICE btcn t
is hrrefcv given, that ilie firfl meeting of the kill, b
Commifuoners under the said far the slate hi *iek
of Pennsylvania, will be held on Mcndav, she
twenty l'econd diy of Oilnfccr r.exr, at the bo
rough of Reading, in the said Kate.
C. READ,
Cotntßiflioner fij-ft named. Camp,
Rutting, Srpt. 8, 1758. Sep
Canai Lottery, No. 11.
ConGtlv-rab'y more than Half Drawn.
£!, t)ra w ' I " week, entry Monday & Tuesday
ind«TJ I " ,[CKE " For Sile ' Sevcn «cfi, at
dt'.eU- 1 W 'LUAM BLACKBURN'S Lottery
• ramav- 3nil 3l l "' r9 officc - No. 64 South Second-flreet,
'a larif, wiierech-sk b ",_ks jrc kept for limitation ind
d, gain* r/giiteriog City of WnMngton No. 2.
Matters' PawPm Lctteiies and information where.
* Tk k'ts may he had in most of the Lotterie»au
notwith- thorifed by law in any of tjie itates of" the
sdelptl.a, Union.
lue to be St*ti or thi Whiil,
the citi- One prizeot 10,000 dollars 10,00 c
ovember Five 4,0 c» _ 20,001
Dire since Two 2,c00 4,ot>y
rcmHltd" Nine I,ooa 9,000
ilications Nineteen jc<s , 9,501
Port)«-f ur. 200 8;g 00
duly at- With a fail proportion of the one hundred
and of the fifty do;:ar prizes—the price of tick
retary. fta wiilfbon rife, particularly on account of the
la L dollar prizes that remain in the wheel
taticai unt jL tht last ,u y of drawing.
£5~ Xnifr ihejiufinefs of a Broker duly at
tended to in all its branches at the above office
i. !nft?»t. w,V»t f
No m T?,' ~ korkignYKS
ic direc- V/f AY > b y virtue «f an a.S passed at November I
oflibe- . IVA session 1791, hold by deed, or by will, Unit
heir re. [ n 'ha' part of Mnrylaud called thediltrift of Co
der, the '"jnhia; and the fame may be tranfinitted ;o, and
lanently ' m h-rited by their heirs, &c. as if they were citi
ig their z^ns ' /
dto the Within the dlSrifk of Columbia, upon ths eaf-
Ibe don- teru branch of Pntomack. oppofire k'uares No.
d plan», "l4.and nji in the city Waihiiigton/are 360 a
ftu >ifs, crc,i "f res rved »qoJ land Forfait. Its advanta
as more numerous, pciTelTintj three or four rl-gant
/sin life "eights, many fine fpr.ingh, and hi abundance of
Jhcdfor er > principally whit* oaks. For a deck or
ind de Jh'P yard, 110 position call boast of equal benefits,
to form hajhjff two. cove«, wich narrow entrances, from
propri- which at an cafy erpence, tide water might be
ra-lers, and docks fsnk, large enough to re
will be ce ' v e veifcl* of any die.
e from | WHhiug to retain an interest in the property, I
won Id prefer felling an undivided half cr three
?pani(h I eights. • GEORGE FRENCH.
1 theif j Fur terms apply to Mr. Charles Minifee,Union
, whe- Urect > Philadelphia, or Mr. Robert Walrti, L'alti
more - July ».K *awHv
castoiToTl
h they I s n *ich wanted ;. Those who hava i
11 to dispose of will find a ready sale «
inverf-, I b 7 applying to any of the Apotheca- '
'i" ae. ries. '
of ex- 1 1
Madeira Wine. t
I Afewpipei.ifrcmarkablyfineMADElßA WINE' 1
ont n T lmtncdi " tcufe * »"<! at a reduced pri.e— FOl r
0111 f,,c hv J ,MtS YARD J
'iV ' ul >" 6 -: • cut/ 1
1S if' ' le health O.'lice is kept open niglu and V
)ife et I dly ' ,he ?">' Hal1 ' " her,? every necessary '
es la i co " v i cr " Cncc 15 P to£ur ed for remavifig the sick w
«nd burying the dead « I
imlcs WILLIAM ALLEN. c;
iliers. Health Office, September 29. t]
it* au n
its Relief of the Poor. ct
THE undermentioned persons are ap- r y
nin g ! P°" ntd b y concurrent refoljtions of the 3t
pre- j ma ' agerß of the Marine and City
r for j Hospitals and guardians of the poor for the Dr
purpose of relieving such of their fellow ci-
tizens whose fituatiors render it improper R
m»o for them to remove to the encampments. ct ,
a£ Z° /J " Pe " r
dto Pe ' er Afirreicn, John Hutchinfon, I 'r:
Mexandcr Steel, ■ William Steven/on,
«■ Tboma, Mbont, John James, u,
Edward Garrows, Thomas Saveri, I
3 Stephen Maxji.-ld, Rhea Kin f ,
Died K li Uh '.'"d Sm '" h > Pa f ch « l HMngfworth t ra
ter- Daniel Doughty, t John Teas vef
vil By order if the board ~at Managers of\ w |,
dry the Marine and City Htfpital.
Jttejl Wm " J° NES ' PrtCdcnt> Eu
!s Timothy Paxfon, Clerk. J
order of the boMrd of Guardians of
tattoo r. I
PETER MIERCKEN, Prcfdenu i "o
THE committee appointed by the above
refolntiori far the relief of such persons, I shr
whose fit nations render it. impiafticable to I Dre '|
remove their families to the tents, being rea I |L e .
dy to enter upon the important duties ofj
their appointment ; inform the public that I f^ B
they will meet on the 2d, 4th and 6th days I c
ln " of each week, from 3to 6 o'clock, at the I "vi
irs Sen ? te Chamber in the State house, whe c I i ud
la- indigent sf the above class will be re- I ' 2OO
;o . I'eved, upon producing certificates from one I (jjp,
n or more refpeftable inhabitants who conn Ij 1 '
n- nuc to rrfl le in the city or suburbs, that the r ]
e- their families are in such a situation as to I j f
'' render it improper to remove them to the | u l,j
511 tents. J *T oul
rd '^ e committee being sensible that no en
th favours will be lacking in the committees I u
who fuper;ntend the encampmenis, to make cp
j the temporary residence of the poor as in- .
_ habitants who remoTtd to them a« comforta- Cn
| ble as possible ; and believing that the re- aPP ?
■» moval of them from the city, pay, under j C °"
~ Providence, be the means of (tooping the W °r
n pievai'.ing disorder j a re deli.ous as mitch as r
ff pofnble to encourage it ; and therefore mod
is earnestly rtquell their fellow citizens to re- c
<r commend n.;ne to them, but such families, q'
' v who from sickness or other important con- Z" 3 '
t fidera'ions, are imptoper objeAs to receive ° r y f
the publ c benevolence at the encampments. °
e Ed. GARRIGUES, Pref.4ent.
Peter Barker. Secretary•
. Philadelphia, 9lb ma. 98. stance
' New Encampment. °^ c r n
THE Committee who sup rintend the ruutet
; encampment at Mailer's I lace near the Mill violtn,
r Pond, on the Getmantowr. road, about two which
> miles from the city, refpcdfnlly inform their f c | s fil
country friends ttalt they ltand in need of an d n
immediate supply of vegetables and ttraw, p r(# cu,
for the use of those distress d citizens who experi
• »re flying from the'prefent calamity. The would
( committee flatter themselves that the fame —l—
s liberality will be found in tSe farmer, and o- concert
r thers, to tupply this encampment, as has an attai
; bfen to that on the Commons near Schuyl- t(
• kill, both having the fame landable obieft 1 Fr ""
■ in *iew. J E gyp [ .
Joh, In keep ? >££
Jon. Ro ejon I Committee, "-"val f<
Jjaac fV. Morris j the trie
Camp, Mailer's Place, terccp-t
September ic, '9B. |
FROM A LAIJi ENGL I H P. 4 .. ii.
y^ n " Qblcrvatioos on the fuppoied exped (ion i f
ach at Buonaparte to India ;by a gentleman
Lottery Vv ' >o re f'ded for many yeais in different
i-ftreet, places on ttiecorift of Malatar, ai d' whd
ion ind » practically acquainted with tiic d ffeitm
No. ». routs over land from ijyria and Eirynt.to
KwbfW. India. ' 6)t
'cT the tbe *kfti"ation of the grand armament
ftom Touion be indeed I.,iiia, it is nut an
easy matter to account for the voluntary Je
-10,000 lay whick it has incurred by the reduction,
ao,oor. or the diminution of its force by the g^rri-,]
4,03-! son left in Malt*. But, at prstsfit, takliig ]
9.00° tins deflination fur granted*, it 'has, at.firit ;
?',Boo the ch. ot a boldai.d dniugtrous
hundred hlit not altogether destitute of prac
of tick- licability.
tof the In a late publication of m*jor Taylor, of
c whe«l ' the military elbiblilhment of Bombay, who
■ . ' cdnfirms, from adtuai and 1 tcr obfei
e office t ' lt re P or:s co (- Caper, while he is morev,
Ast' particular aid accurate in his accounts. '»f
— distances, and the average lime of perform
vember j°" rßt y s aMtl v "y a g cs - From major
I, lanis lay lor s pamphlet, '• Considerations on an
of Co- over.laßd communication,' h Ac. (page 20,)
:o, and we learn that the fmnmer feai'on, by reason
re citi- of the northerly winds that then prevail 111
hs eaf- ths Mcd,tfrra "ca.i, is highly favourable to
es* No! * n y Vffirc,s bouil<i to .Levant, the voyage
360 a- hcing performed from the port of Ollia at
Ivanta the mouth of the Tiber, to Alexandria in
nine or ten days. On this fcsle of faiiintr
nc» of a . r - - ,
ck or a flcet flQ . m :Le P ,jrt of Toulon might
nefits, reach Alexandria in the course of twen.-
, fr«m ty days. (
;ht be may, however, be permitted t? hazard s
0 re " a conjeftion, that the place of debarkation 1
rt T> l r"" ot be A exandria, tout Damietta; all
three fixation more eligable than tne former, and
JH. from whence the distance from Sui'z ijtiear-
Umon rr by more than thirty miles. The town
, w , 1 rich, and the harbour good. e
— — Suppo e then Buonaparte having eluded A
the vigilance of Admiral Nelson, to have h
lava landed at Damietta, with an army of thirty I
sale thousand men. His objeft is to convey the O
2CI" g'eateft poflible number of that body to ca- I
operate with Tippoo, on the coast of Ma- f«
labar, in an invasion of the province of that I ,n
name, which was ceded* by the peace wf m
r INE * 793* If'he IJaftTodia company by the IP'
-Fc, prince of Mysore, the rightful sovereign of T
,us th .f, countries nfurped by Hyder Ally. He "f
l l . rot himfclf with ui.ncctffary F.
fTary Ciuns, (lores, and provisions, I r fJ
fkk will be fou::d neeeffary for him In India to
His troops m«ft ( walk on foot. All the
camels that he can possibly procure, through 'hi
the favour of the Porte, or the force of mo.
■as ney, : «'ill not be more than what will be ne- fed
ceiiary for the carriage ef wacer. The loss »''
of men will, no doubt, by this route, be ve- I go
»P- ly cormderable. and al ay be fairly estimated. Co
_ at one third of the whole .number. ' J au<
.VJ " ext P°' Ht of importance is, the 11 h
" Procuration of fca conveyance to transport Uh
oer p e r^niai "mg troops f ro m the b.ttrtm of dif the
Red as„ p, n on Fo
coafl: of Malaoar, diredly oppoiite to the the
entrance of that sea, and ,njhe poircflion ofJ -nd
?T" - . ten
Iv. .-V ' and no: without pro- |& ni
habihty, that the French .have for tLfe 10
sixteen months paltitsetfh conflantly fendioe ff et
rlh I ° Bt r° the ° f small light hg<
I ,r an'por ts > and such as may,be supposed fit I this
veiTels for the navigation of the Red Sea, the
J which ii extremely narrow, abounding f„ I
rock, and (lioals, and but little known to She
• European navigators. Of these facts the «te
authority now before us is full and convinc- unw
of\ fhef '*' bei ' n g dispatched from Ro"
J the Mauritius, at the end of May, with wa-
Iter and provisions only, bound for Suck, und;
j would experience a south east wind to tie thro'
place of their deflation, which is a fair port
1 ofc ?/"e . would " ,! ure a speedy passage. f 'a"d
-• I u* j T» s P ro^e t0 bc unfounded, we ap- ( con ']
•- I prehend Buonaparte must txpeiknce the J their
r*J g rea test difficulties : for then he must tru.t | °f tr
it r". 'r PT^', UUS ""efource of obtainimr vef Fren
. 9 I from Judda and other ports in the Red ! ian< *
e . deval
c I rjj a [ e t0 l^at t ' le trade rOKI Cairo t» upon
J udda alone employs upwards of co Aims Engl
e I rj°° tona facb « a:, d feme of 1000 tons, be- a «d ii
fides rumberlefa smaller vessel .J But the i 'e«ia
t,K r X a providing and cbllefting of
3 J f m L °^ aflon > wonld in all probability here.
I - tat the objeft of the' expedition, as it every
would enable our government in India to 3"d t
lend information to our admiral in those to th,
•IK OB °f "it i t0 Cquip a fufficieiit num- "nts
• TvVf* to b,ock U P tbe Strai 't* of dcl
ot Bab-el-rnandel, and prevent the fleet from All
entering the Indian ocean ; and we fh:,u!d eragm
apprehend a very few flout ships, whe nwe Fnrnc
eonfider the narrowr.efs of the entrance Thi
would he Efficient for that purpose a reftc
11 the months of June and Jn'y, the pas. Been*
iage from Suez to the coall of Malabar, gfrfs.
«ith ltrong northerly winds in the Red her bw
sea, and at South well in the Indian any pe
Ucran, can be performed in 17 or 18 days, done f
or y a fleet in 23 or according to page feflnni
35 of Major Taylot'g coslUerationj; bTu ma V t<
even allowing that no obllroaion ihould oc- Frcncl
cur to this armament in the Red Sea, and v "i ! i
we may allow, independentlyqf this circum- cutive
itance, a considerable los« by shipwreck and vvifh a
°u C r W i '- ai>d a'f" that the navigation of her nei
the Ind/aii Oce-ati ftould be fi»und rainier- and cm
rupted, they ftijl have to contend with the to take
violence of the South weft monsoon, and of the
wh'ch would be found tremenduous to vef- abov? ;
J fi !| ed w.th troops badly foßtid and man- I g«fs. '
" ' more especially if they fhonld be vefTels clubs;
procured in the Red Sen ; here they would | infurre,
experience another certain loss. But what c
would Hill be rfbnod more fatal than any and th
o mcupy tne Caluci of the Uar.ian;lies in h vr, i
ITT r tn^° r:t ' * lhe * Tl " d "'P g^atefl
all attack. on Russia; or to go direelly to India, ap couutrv
Fear, to he the only alternative to the idea of f UUtiU >
a French fettlcment in the nnhealtfcy clima-• 0 f P P fc^
Egypt, and drawing to that centre the truile oi conunu
'ndu by mean* of a cart it ought to be conffder- P t,ri -'.
ed, that while we are able to maintain' a superior ipri BJr ,
naval force ,« the /-rahi n Sea, ana Inuiau (> :nn , 4, J
tne tride between Malabar and i>„e 2 W „ U |A j,.. , S>
terccjjred by our flerrs If Ind.u be ao'le i ' ■ 1
| t Vid.. considerations, &c. p. 38. ;o . o '* ' God fa
I Vide ccnSdcratioiis, & c . j. 33. ' " ' and ho
tiling that had yet befallea than, woyldbc
i .. jv.- t he difficulty y. hich- the tituifports would
: I!°* 1 fir,J tfie b 'ar at Mangaloie, or of
-7"" n ; larding the trcyjps at this season of the year,
'd h' °" a " y "* lh ' •C-#laW.ar|. —the
\ j- fl't'fon a!! this coail is nearly an infurmount
. crent able obihrle tp any communication bet ween
'g>piU> /hips and the shore, and at all ev.-nts, would
ke a service of the utmolt difficulty itnd
irmament dur.^tr.
s. nut ail From these o'ofervations it vvould apjjear,
. that an iiivmlioii of Jndia By t'be route of
•cduclio",' 3uex, and ■; he Red Sea, is replete with Bum-
Che berlefs difficulties and without any ex'er
t, takifg tioris on our p*rt. of such 0 nature as to
s, at. tii it O ,. c rf on t h e deflruaion of at least two thirds
.mgtroui 0 f any hiijj.ber c>f men that micht be fckft
rotprac- ed for the pnrpofe. hoivevcr inured to fa
. _ and Jiardfhip?, Let the energy of ths
aylor, ot Frcrich be lyhat it may, it cannot lurmount
>ay, woo /he influence of ii burning fun, reverberated
= '. ' om the bnfi.m of a fandr defer:, without
ir is and fubjedt to the moll pelHlential
ounts, of e«(ha!atiot)», to the of t. v e i\r's
perform- jealousy cad fuperliition of the ! urks'
m major the difference of religion, manners, and" cuf'
usoq an toms; to ilormy seas, a dangerous uaviVa
age 20jj tion, and all the evils to which the war.* of
»yreafon nautical (kill , au (t necefTari'y e,:pofe them I
revail in Lut what must be our reficdioas'thpuld the
irable to French be bold enough to. hazard, and for- 1
e voyage tu.iate enough to fticceed, in Undriig [o ,ooo 1
Ollia at men on the Ihorea of Indn ? We mav then >
ndna justly reprobate the wart of intelligence, 1
lading, which might have easily counteracted' their >
I might tneafures, and overwhelmed Bucnaparte and r
t twen- his holl m terror and dismay. But let us r
cons le ourftlves in the strength, discipline si
hazard and gallantry of our army in India, and con- «
irkation hdently rely on their exertions to sav e us a
etta ; a from the impending danger. - w
ler, and 0
is near- TRENTON, (N.J.) OH. 22. ft
town .'s There is bop; yet for America !" exclai.r. a
e4 a patriot of the wefte'rn country, when 31
eluded Re read the firfl s pe ech of the President, re- ci
° havt ' a T t,ve 'o the conduft of France Awards the
f thirty United States. What will that patriot now ot
vey the . lay. when he has read the letters of Taliey- °i
toes. | rand to Mr, Gerry, in which he will fi,,d
us Ma- JWe ftrofigcft pofllble, ind/re& acjuiowlcrdg- an
ofthaf 'Dent of the wisdom and efficacy of (he
ace vt measures repeatedly recommended by the m
3 y tbc j ort « a "d finally adopted by Comrrefs. th
ign of I alleyrand foiemnly declares that. 111 spite tft
y He "f thejn.mical declarations of America, the
Ltflary V r republic means to wait till it be ir- tiv
'ifions, forced, by aftual hostilities, to l'o b =
dia to war. ' . rat
II the What has induced the Great Republic ™
roMgh thus to adopt the deceitful and hypocritical
f^'r a?,e "I, 1 !! 0 which they af
>e ue- sea so cordially to despise ? First, the una- the
le loss ""nity exprefTed by the people t* fopport pe«
De ve- government Secondly, the measures ps the
nat«i, Coiigrefs to strengthen the country by fleets
' a .", d a ™'«. a " d to expel alien traitors- ma'
V 1 Lnn % u ia PC th " thij of modera- def
sport Uqn wil bolster np their finking party i„ bot
FLXK S ""\.*' d »»"«• faala <
' theh] i, CU ", n ° L l P re pared to strike
' I -Sd' fifth.'" the > have meditated ; met
Jn of -nd, htth.y, an that we may,fe ?le,
ter pted .0 relax in our preplf-ations fur dc- P Tt j
P r "' jfo X'-t" 3 bettCr opportunity 7
thsfe j ~ wtienever ilicy (halt 3>av
g ft® 1 England off their hands, and a free pas- -
h g ht sage for an ,'nvadi,g fl sct an d army. Hence !tri.
q the H dccc P tious language from 8
Sea, the double-ton :ued Talieyran in c |
rin France with alt her heading, i, wcak , tint.
nto She has spread herfelf over a furfaqe t-po to i«
.the extennve. She has become, even now an 9-
rinc- I unwieldly CololTus, and trembles, like the JerA
rom Roman empire, when threatened by t»e ! «
wa■ surrounding nations of barbarians, which in- our
uez, undated Jier province , and hafleud h. rover of ot
f' po of ST r PrA ' dto affembl? ' Lh " P" b,i
I land Th'f' J" naVUS ° f S P a, ' n and Hoi- of A
c 't I .. th ' co: querors of Italy are orn
T theTn t l ° bio 4 kadet ' 1 ' a 'd harmh-ftin 11
tl ' C of : roo ;r P T tS " H f ! m P ot ent collcclion tegri.
r I Fr Pn v • T COa,n(te ad of carrying ln g"<
f. IIT Pn " C,pleS a " d d;r,ia£ ''"" -nto Eng g prove
led and now opprefTe, her own cities, spreads the b
deviation through the country, and pteys 12.
i ta upon the vitals of France. The fleets of to 1-
up, i-.ngland lock <*o the mouths of. her rivers '«<
if" th , e .P r ' nci P al Pa« of the pefli- t
:he letKial forces which lh e j s waiti„ K wi-h in. *t.
of P-tteflee to disgorge from her harbours. All g«ce(
,tV apparatus is becoming elties
« every day left formidable ,0 her enemies! H
r° 7C ° an eshaufled treasury, -nents
C rants wf Pe ° Wt, ° m " g r, ' nd5 > an{J the ty. «5-
Z « p ' rp ""' ,ly "" ni "« ,bt " htJ
,ra AH these caufcs will few to unriddle th ■ which
«" ,ht » f •" - d ~>
; crafc
SB?, Sri™! ,bc ° f c »- ' M »i
f .' dj y " P'jJi- America fes an Patl
inv o- r n n ''; tC |l, tU ° C '" rly l ° br v" into
m any perpetual alliances, in future We are The
a, d ( mc forever wjih guarantees of French pof Adams
:e feffi,n 3 ,and every kind «f con xftion, which Gen
U may tend to drag us into French wars, or in g we
s . French projedts. The charm, tha-k Hta- "ere al
d ven !, s m ,w diff.lved ; and when the Exe "f the
cutive thinks proper to trrat, lvt it be the 0l "'
d w"fh and prayer of every American, that Our
if new treaty may of limit.d duratioa exampl
r . and cor lain no pr.nciple th ,t w,U oblige us a" I
e to take a part in the difputei or the polities' Mge
d°f lh < I"™ of Europe. Let ui bis" tb ->
I T fr-n' 53 '' ci >< ">••■!* Con!
i' X u : ' '"-y havectlt cfFt'he hopes of fadim
Is j clubs; they have railed ba.re s againfl the
d uifurrei£l,oiJ3 of vice and ig >oranre, the re
1 InTthe P ' UU n rS ' tfccon '« of atheifls,
y and the constitutions of out-bws. Tbev
„ h ve, in ft,On, prepared the way for f I
3 greatest and only pol tical blrffin- this tr
couutcy flood in need of, the ex., - Her C 2
• been r een "»• _*«•
1 tins, tht rcfervnir i
r 'P riß g of ail immorality, corruption »• l*' ' l
■ ednefs, and methodized duplici y ' . TJIE .
'
uZ hr u • V<>pe from F «fich a (rents . ar
hofc ba T''= that were rcidy t o £
9C,lvU ' C3»h<
> woyMbc their health, religion, gbver. :
».ts would and independence; and pray that the ;
lo.e, or of proaching CoNgrcf, may shew wifdort and
'• th e rear, firumefs ,cquol to the M.
-the
lfurniount- The eka.ona for membert of the State
between Leg,ft.,. .r?, we arc so rry t0 f ay> have ter .
rics, would minated Unfavourably to the wilh.-s of the
leuity friends of government, in one or two of tic
, , c " I countries; but in others again, it is
lid appear, in a high degree flattering to observe, that
: r°, ute of tf * event " wholly in favor of federal cha
with Burn rafters; and to the westward, scarcely a
any exer- Jingle person is placed upon the return, of
ture as to wbofc a federalifm the fmallcft doubt can be ,
two thirds entertained,
tbe fefcft- " __
ej to fa- NEWARK, OSober 23.
: KY ' I riday kift a dinner was given by &
lunnounc number of. the gentlemen of Newark, to
verberated General Piockney as a tribute of approba
, \v:tKom lion and refpecl— were joined on the?
je'hlential occasion by ftveral geniJemen of New-York*
It iirabs, at prelent reiident in the town. It being
rse ! urls's, the birili day of cur illu'lrious Prcfident,
, antfeuf- the morning was ufnered in by the discharge
js u:ivi'g»- of cannon a-id the ringing of the bills—co
e want of lours wtre difpiayed though the dsy,' from
ife them J the flag-flaff, and from the houses of Mess.
the G {fiord and Tuttlc. The company aflem-.
and for- Wed at Uiree o'clxl:, at Mr. Gitt'o.d's, who
g 'O,OOO, had prepared a very di-ner,which
may then n-.t only did
"lligence, ms country, a* it evinced, that it abounds
ted their with rlenty, not only witti fttch tiling* as
aarte and may barely fatiafy the appctife, but such as
j' '. et . us ™ a y P'eafe even the m ,It delicate palate—
Mclpline "xty-two in number fat clown at table,
and con- where the greatett conviviality and glee
save.us abounded-the extreme affability of our
worthy guest, added much to the pleasure
n coi.vertitio»», whilll his communications
22. lcrvedtoexoite in the brealts of all prefeat,
exclaim. a Jj 'noignation oftheconuuS of France,
', when and the greatest abhorrence »f French prin
lent, re- ciples.
aids the 'Phe following toads were drank on the
-iot now occasion, accompanied with the 1 discharge
Taliey- I a piece of artillery at each touft;
ill find! .1 TfuJJnited States of America free
Jwledg- I an d independent. •
'of the J 2 - The President of the United State*—
by the ma y his virtue and patriocifm alwayi receive
•ngrefs. their best reward, the approbation and ef
-11 spite I ttem of a grateful people,
ica, the I _ 3* she Senate a ci Imufe of Rcprefenta..
be ir- tlVr « of the United Slates—may no mem.
to go I her of either, ever debase the American cha
racter by faying " aye" to a qticllion that
Jpublic j ™ a y tend to the introdudtion of a foreign
critical influence.
isy as- I 4' The People of the United States
e una- the firlt in the cause of freedom and iiide-
Dpport penderice, may they be the last to furrentler
res ps them.
r fleets I J• The militia of the United States
ors— I ma y they be always ready to support and
odera- I defend the goTernment they have adopted,
irty in I both as lolditr* anil citizens.
i£)ion I 6. The infant navy of the United States
itrike I —may its fucJcefs in protecting our com
ated ; I merce fpeedify prpve to the American peo
mybfe I P' e > 'hat their objections to it sprung from
jr de- J prejudice and uot from truth,
unity I ?■ The armiftTSf .the United Statre—
fhali |- «*ay tneir cohdn£t always prove that they
e pas- *** influenced by the example of tkeir illu.
deuce I urioti* leader.
from I. 8. George Wafhingtoh, commander ia
j in chi sos our armies—may ht foog con
veak. I tjnue the pride of his country and a terror
: tpo I to its eiieqiiVg.
an I 9* P' e Governor and Stats of New
e the I Jersey.
' the J 10 May the manl; and firm conduft of
:h in- I our government, and the indignant voice
over I-'four countrymen,, driv? the Frene 1 Re
[i the J public to a sense of justice', or may the arms
Hoi- ot America teach het, that we were not
' are horn to be Haves
■fs in J tf - May plain American fairnefs and l'n-
Sion 1 tegrity, aver confound and subvert the in
ying of French diplomacy, and eventually
? ng . prove, eve.to Talleyraud, that honesty i»
eads the 1 best policy. . 1
reys 12. Tiie spirit of .776-may it er |ncc
of to trance and to the world, that America
,ers, not throw r,ff her dependence on one na
elti- " Uo " to oe the dupe of knottier.
im. 13- May American honeftv sever be dii-
All graced by inventing excuks for French cru
)ing elties ana violences.
net, H Honest priuciple* and united fenti
iry, .nents throughout Amerca.
ty. 15. The man that is true to his trust at
leel every hazard.
16. The nineteenth of Qtfaber -the day
,h, which gave birth to our illustrious Prefidint
'he —may he live to fee many reti/ros o f i-
and the confidence of his fJlow-cituens in
for crease with-hid years.
ave , VOLUNTEERS.
Jn . May Buonaparte's army find the Eo-yoti
e k an path in.b the Red Sea. 0
no By Col. Hali.
j rc The state of Maffac ■ufetts— the cradle of
0 f Adjms and American liberty.
c h Gen. Pinckncy having r.ured, the folfow
or mg were give u by the Preliiem. which
:a . were also accompanied with the sitfehar—
:e of the artillerv. ""cnarge
r" Co ~'T'S6jli«B2B
f s< m their drplomatic dileuflions. '
5 . For Sale, or Charter, " "
)e lll£ 0 -"ll;u iK ia
'• L »»iiA,
~ JACOB SHOEMAKER
is tr WH ,° FOR
, r cargo, of about 2,000 bushels of
'J St. Martin's Salt,
d - ro mx a 4th. "98 Hlof
e To be fold* or Rented •
"" TI!E l»lfcriber's No ?8 'w J
fireet, with a C«U*l and P,' (T r
k the hwf, wiiJ be :<S ° n ■
J . WCard cellar *
'* Citvfecr ;.i, , "ci tion :
•L AT ESI . t tally
iforc'ign
. CONTINUED. tklei]
LQNDoJTstpUmber 8.
We have forebornfc to make any general or) 'gj na i
obfervstions upon the important and irite- O ppof l[(
iciii'ig events that have lately taken place, _ The!
Telpettiiig the treafo lable practices which 'pj^uly
have been difcowcred ia our lifter kingdom, o gp o fn
until certain facts, conne£kd ma y y C
with th fe events, Wert completely before j a t h e ;
the public. admit t
We haye he3rd the evidence given at the mf a ns 1
trial ef Mr. A. O'Connor, at Maidftone—
on wlti
We liave since beard his confeffion —and the gi
general conduct the opposition refpe&mg E r fkin<
Jacobin conspiracies has long keen the Tub- o f]r erc( i
ieA of our animadversion. One point ct Q
View in which the treasons that have been u fc-ful i
discovered seems to us. worthy of cotifidera- mu (\ a <
tion is, inasmuch at. the conduift of oppo f e y e ral
, lit ion, from fatf« th.it may be Hated, may a g a i„n
appear to have been cobne<ted with thote t | emen
trcaf lis . . O'Con
Not only the friends but the enemies ot Hey h;
Mr. Fox, allow him to be a mar. ot great to p (J |,
difcevnment and penetrition; and his friends guii
will teU b , that an iri«~ht Into the charac- Qr , hc
ter and talents of others, fa amo»g his molt q„ th
re.narkable qualities. Mr. Sheridan, it is i
also generally understood, has these quanti- j trai ' tt) ,
ca'io'is to an eminent degree—to which also j onf( t
may b? added, thai from his allocating con- j
ftantly with fom; of the persons who have jj aTe j
UieilJielves trairors to their conn- witb i
try, he may be supposed the more likely to p rec |f
have been able, to have gutffed at lealt, at waS[ /j
their views arfd intentions. 'he fame ob- flam
fervatioos, in fame degree, apply to Mr. WC ft (
yierr ty, and to the left of those " Most j f a
reflect?b)e• charafters in the kingdom j vourei
who appeared at the trials at Maidftore, .
to fprak to the character of Mr. Arthur , |
O'Connor. I the
We may perhaps be alked, before we pro- j; n f u[
ceed, wliethtr we really believe M r >_ Fox, ;
ever
Mr. Sberiiafi, &c> were acquainted with the i
treason of Mr. A. O'Connor, and his C ould
friends—treafon which they have so repeat- j tf) at|
edlv declared tUcy did not believe to exist ftat(?
in the country ?—To which we reply, that ) for
we judge all men, and particularly the pre- j tQ j, e
sent leaders of the eppofitipu, not by their , q U est
profeflions, but by their coiduft, Mr. Pitt j
and Mr. Dundas{ persons well qualified from tQ m;
their situation to know the fa£l) hatfe often _ a j|
openly declared in the hoMfe of commons, f
that there were traitors to their country in t jj e n
its very bosom, and persons connefted with ca u e(
the French dire&ory, inviting French aflift- t r
ance, and plotting with them he detlruft- n j(j, e
ion of the constitution—to which the op- ,j, e j
position have an constantly replied, that tbey
diftelieved the assertion, that this was mere- f^ ei)(
ly a pretence for paflit.g arbitrary laws— Q'C
that the persons to whom ministers alluded, ranc(
were real friends to the constitution, and -tljat
particularly to parliamentary reform. But
" ministers did not reft here—they proceeded to
to point out the very persons whom they ,], cir
accufad, by causing ih««« be arrelt f?*T~ '
The clamours-os opposition were redoubled )
now fay " these most refpe&able cbarafters vcr y
in the kingdom," wc are sure thrre is bo opp(
treafon —the men win ha»e been imprison- j- c j ve
ed are our friends—their fentimeuts are the pre f
fatrte as our own—they mean only to restore j
the constitution to its original purity; and j n q
Mr. O'Connor is na sootier arrelled than an j e , )t
esprit du corps runs through the whole par-
ty all the opposition prints are filled with j.,.,
prouftatio'm of his patriotism. Sir FiaH
cis Burdett comes down to the howfe of yer
cuor.mot]?, to ascribe the cause of his arreil lrej
to his virtuous chara&er, which he repre-1 (
fents as one ot the mo<ft exalted integrity . con
and thougk his duty to his conftiluentn COB
could not call Mr. Fox from his retreat at hof
St. Aene's Hill, he accompanies tly whole
pha|pnx of opposition to Maidftone, to sup- p o j
jiort ihe character of (113 intimate friend, j
Mr. O'Connor, who he declares to be « ve- tia]
ly much in his confidence and efteem,"aud col
>■ at tached to the constitution of this coun- ex j
try." . Tt
Mr. Frlkine, Mr. Sheridan, atid others, t j Q
press forward to aflitt this most innocent and wa
injured man, and to indemnify his charafter, an(
principles and conduit' with their own; and
report fays, that after the jury had been in- BQ
dnced to a( quit him of treason within the
cou'.ty of lvefii, an attempt was made by j ra
some of the party, to rescue him from the m(
hands of ju'lice, and to prevent his being
sent to Ireland, to b- tried for tii' fe trea- te|
sons of which a confcioufrofs of his guilt, o jr
and a icertaintv of being convifted, have p Q
since induced him - to make an ample confef
jJon.— But this is not all—the opposition in
general were not content to mention the
yime of Arthur O* . oni*ir with refpcA and
efttem whenever an opportunity offered; it .'
wan not enough that Sir Francis Burdett
declared himf lf his most enthuliaftic ad
niirer; the honourable Mr. Andrew St.
John, a moil intimate and confidential friend
of Mr. Fox, as intimate and confidential a e
friend ef that gentleman as Mr. O'Connor, a
who had not opened his lips in Parliament cc
for a very long period before, was put for
ward to make a motion, the objeft of which, L
anil of th*. fpeeth he d-livered on the cc- j?
cafion, li-emed to be not only to express '
iiis conviction of the innocence of Arthur 1
O'Conner, with refpeft to the charges c
brought agai :ll Ivm, but also to pr'on6u*«e 1
a penegyrij on the peculiar loyalty of botii
h'm and his brother, whom he Hated tohave
ihewn the zeal and readim fs to aiSlt 1
gov« rnment when tfce French fleet appeared :
off Bautry Bay, Mr. St. John, who, : f.he i
can be fuppoi'.d u> any other fei ti I
(sients than t isow •, will not feel himl U de- i
graded by being .fuypofed to speak those of i
Mr. Fox, concluded his speech in protest
injr againtl, and bv declaring the ai re ft was
illegal ; that the i'yliem pui sued by goverr
mei.t towards the two 0"> oßii'ir's, was a
system of the sioft cru.l aivl wanton perti -
' j 'ijie tf.'f.r 5 I H.m.nj up, is i ken in
snort hand by Ml. Guerney.
ci tion : that all t%:!r were so houses I
t tatty Unwarranted by the c - .;t .i:twn of geancc
this cou-.try; tfcat the mrafures taken (ked *
again ft thof gentlemen (as he jSurfue I
entitled tbem,) refiefted nothing but dis
grace and dishonor on th»fe Who were the J
auht' rs ol thtai ; and these measures oßly Host
originated in iheir being known to s£t in Our g;
oppofiton to the present administration. has >ec<
. These are strong fadts and Tfpeak pretty Rhir.e.
plainly for thrmfelves'; but the friends of the pta
opposition (if thry stilt have any friends) are reat
may yet urge one plea —oae miserable -plea co-mma
io their defence. They may fay, "We pass th<
admit the difctrntrsnt of Mr. Fox, and the putatio
means he had", frqm the confidential footing turn h
on which lie stood witli Mr. O'Connor and ries aie
Mr. Sheridan ; we kgow.how anxiom Mr. cljrcd i
Erflcine was to give up ttoe brief that was 3 fcpa
offered him, as Couufel oft Mr. O'Connor's ' march
trial, only that he might appear in the more j to repu
ufeful charafter of hi« intimate friend. We the 111
itiuft admit something of the fame kind of is in fei
feveril other gentlemen of oppofifion ; but attack
again It all this we contend, that these gen. Vattlir
tlemen were dupes to the artifice of Mr. A. by Ke
O'Connor." This, is :he onlv fubterfuije tua
! they have left, and in candour we arc bound ifiitno
to point it out to theru. They mull either vins ha
be guilty of treason or mifprifisn of treason, where
or they must have bean dupes to traitors, j motior
| On the contrary, the effeift is the fame, j afgainll
1 j whether they were dupes to traitors, or ; progre
' j traitors tlumfelves. It is obvious to every 1 where
1 ) one, that if Mr. Fox had been disposed to by me
" ! a£t the part which the conspirators would ual
' hate pointed out as the r.uft ufeful to them Thi
" with refpeft to Ireland, it would have been ; trality
' precisely that part -which he has taken. It: war be
t was upon the fubje£t of that his most j anfwet
" inflanunatory fpeechcs at the Whig Club he (ha
• wert;delivered • It washy harangues upon eanno
■ i the fame fubjett, that hc.conftantly endea- j that p
I voured to render tlie pre feat Administration Prulfi
> j odious in the eye 3 of the people ; and let it | tion t<
r j ever be remembered,, that at a time when and tl
I the Administration were Engaged -affurc
"j in fupprtfllng the bl»cke/i ctlnfpfracy that! and I
■' I ever wa3 formed in any conntry—when a j trality
, e ! muiiny reged on board our fleets^—Mr. Fox j King
' s , could not, by'any consideration be perfuat'ed , court!
!to attend his duty in Parliament. But the ing a
ft state of Ireland offered too tempting a topic repub
lt : for inflammatory declamation and inve&ive
c ~ ! to be refitted ; and it was almost upon this
,r ; question alone, that he came down to the
t£ | Huufe of Commons during the last fe'Tion,
1,1 to make a motion, in whicti he reprobated vreat
!n -nil the measures which had been taken for ftanct
, 3 ' the fuppreflion of that rebellion, and made j en tic
m the most exaggerated statement of what he n
called the cruelties of government towards at
the rebels, which he detailed in dories fur j t |,
nifhed him by the pure, the virtuous, and f rom "
P" the patriotic Mr. O'Connor himfelf. p erca
: Y If Mr. Fox, Mr. Sheridan, and their y riin
e * friends, were ignorant of the treason of Mr, com r
O'Connor, we can account for that igno- corre
ranee in no other way than by supposing f orw;
that they did notchufe to know all that they can j
ut might Irave know. They were contented
ed to know that Mr. O'Connor, as well as a^op
e y tUcinfelves,"was"tlie violent opponent of all —,i
~ themeafures of adauniftr-«' jn : and they per- an( j,
:rs very minutely into the means or end of his 3
B0 opposition. The great objeft. both of them
>n* selves, and this man, was to get nd of the
he p re s e nt administration :in this theymea .tto ,
3re »€t in concert ; and if a any thing appeared
ind in O'Connor's conduct that looked too vio- s
an lent, or fesmed to deviate from the fair line ft,jp
llr " of political opposition, they probably conli- Hill
dered it as their duty to overlook
aß * what other way can we account for their ne- t h e
of ycr entertaining the smallest firfpicion of wlii
treafon, and for their constantly and bold
»re" ly denying the exiftance of any jacthiniral To
■y ' cor.fpiracy, with as much warmth as they j
! * t# coiitended for the patriotism and loyalty, t
c at and iotegrity of Arthur O'Connor ? t
]°^ e All therefore that the bed friends of op- r
"P" position can venture to iay in their defence
■"d, j s * ( tbey were dupes —dupes in so efscn- Th
ve " tial a point, that the very existence of th(e,.
and countr y must have been endangered, if'its
)un ' exiftenc- had depended upon their wisdom ing
They have opposed the Treason and Stdi ca,
iers ' tion Bill;, aad every measure brought for- Gi
and ward, in these perilous times, for the fafety rit;
* fr » and proteaion of the country ; they have in
a ? d denied the existence of treason , and they are tec
1 in " now proved to have conntenanceU and flip- co:
the ported men who have confeffed themselves
: ky traitors—men whom they always termed the pc
ie most enlightened and virtuous patriots! an
e '"S With what face, then, and under what pre- of
"T*" tence wijl they again call upon the people rai
u " t » of this country for their confidence and sup- pe
have > th
nfef-
" ' n , ROME, August 3. th
t The department i f Circeura has been ilif- de
1 an -, trafted by a dreadful religious war. l'aren- 115
1! f tino has lieen the firft city against which the
re , troops of the republic, seconded by the '
[c t brave Poles have been obliged to march, for a '
riend the purpose of liippreffmg an impure col- °'
le£tion of fanatic priests eommanded, we are "
' a oi . a assured, by Neapolitan chiefs. Theddelu- e(
im'ent inhabitants of the country were iiift-antly -
f or dispersed by our troops in the defiles and
rhich surrounding mountains ; the. city wa tsktn
,e <c- b y • the P' ' eftß alul t " tir ' f° ld ' ers ' ''
jpr e fs found with avms in their hands, were put to !■
Lr j] lU * thefwerd. Yet a pardon was twice pro-
claimed, on condition of their laying down t
ou««t; 'heir arms, and fubmilting to the laws.
botii August 4.
ohave The chastisements inftifted on Fare»tino
o aiSlt has not yet induced them to lay down their
peared arms ; tbey again dared the contest, and
>, : t lie were driven to the foot of the city of Fro.
■ fei ti finoue, which is built upon a rock. Hav t
[lf de- ing entered tile city they there barricaded 1
I'.ofeofland entrenched theaifelves. The French
iroteft miner* broke the gates into pieces. A
;ft was priclt, sword in nam], encouraged these ftu
;<!Vtrr- pid men. Our trcops came to the charge,
was a In vain was a moil lively fire kept up Irom
perf - the houfts. Rcfiftance only facilitates the
kt ii~iii victory of the French. They killed all that
were in arms, and burned seven or eight
... I -
ho'ifes tbat served for fortreflts. This veil-
geiance was terrible ; ' ut French blood wa:
(feed * * * * and homicidal priests would - _
jiurfuc the conrfe of their, aflaffinations. > Jj
STRA.4BURGH. Aug. 20. fp
Hostilities will commence in a few days.
Our gariifon, comji of 10,000 men,
has received orders tn prepare for palling the
Rhine. The eogi'ietra are employed upon
' the phii of a camp at Kehl: 60,000 men cry
are ready on the upper Rhine, under the *' ll
command of Lefebre ; th?V are goi..g to - lr
pass the Rhine also. All the french de- aptai
putations that "*'is at Ralladt is upon [tare
■ turn hither : Bo'inier and hist.vo fecre'a- 1 e a J
i ries aie-ftill at Raftadt.' Bomitr has de- , Ume
. cVjeed to the princes, that those who fought ren . v
513 feparjte -peace lhall furnifh men, and j ie
s ' marc 11 againlt the Emperor. The design is | IT ? ove '
;| to repnblicanize all the countries between _•
: the Rhioe and the Danube. All Europe 1 •
sis in fermentation. The emperor means til ® n 1
t 1 attack at the fame time, Switzerland by the ve
. Vattline and thecouutry of Giif' v ns ; Fiance ' e !"-
Jby Kehl -and Men'z ; and Italy by Man- « onll , l
e tua- Prince Charles is appoimed General- " U "! '
1 , iffimo of the Imperial troops. General De- ' s ' e
r vins has witnefied the' Gordon of Hungary,
, where he to tftablifh an army to watch the
1. j motions oT Pafwan Oglou, who is advancing CHAM
; againil Belgrade, and making aa aftorii{hin>j c '
r ! progress on the le. t bank ot the Danube, &'
v ( where his ft'ength is co'iftantlv increasing,
0 by means of his exaft dif ipline
d ' ual payment of his troopi.
n j The kii.g of Pruflia demanded the neu
n 1 trality of Germany in the evenly of anew
t : war between France and Aullria. But bieyes ber3, I
ft i answered, •' The Emperor wishes for war,' geftio
b ■ he (hall have it, but the French Dlre&ory ted ic
n i cannot agree to any other neutrality than the pr
i- j that pointed out by the. present demarcation.
n PrulJVa perfirts in demanding an indemnifies-, | oa , >;
it j tion tor the enpences of the siege of Mentz, „ £
mi ! and the demand is coujne«a\iccd. We are ; <j £ d t(
•d ' atTured that the kings of Prussia, Sweden 1 get of
at! and Denmark, will preserve an armed neu- he.co
a i trality. The Emperor, of Russia am} tue en »
>x King of England have emffiri,e<i at all the i
:d ' courts of Europe for the purpose of effefl- j ; 1 '
ie j ing a coalition against France, and the other ny . £
ic republics. cure t
V . e , ' capat
BALTIMORE, Oftober 24.
n > As ownert of the (hip PatApfco, we have t ed, :
-d great fatisfaftion in dating the following in- fucce
or fiance of admiral lord Duncan's polite at- trntil
tention to that veflel and her cargo.
The (hip Patap'fco, captain Hill, arrived
at the port of Bergen, in Norway, on the j
lr sth July, with the intention of proceeding gran
from thence to a port in Germany—her fu- i,y J
percargo alarmed at the report of a war with that
c,r France, and apprehensive of being captured, nsut
communicated those apprehenfioha to our P e " a
lo " correspondents in London, who in reply, ex P c
n K forwarded to him the letter from lord Dun-
C Y can published herewith—a letter, wWlct, al
cd though made unnecessary by the meafut»»
S. »4 : <ls
f- and receive* tne warm acknowledgments,ot
ok S, Smith ic Bwchanam
hi* Baltimore, Oft. 23 '§B. (
:m- _
'be Lord Duncan'l Letter. ' Shi
tto , Yermouth, August 2,'9b. Bri
r s d Siit, (
'to- Should you find the Patapfco merchant j gt
l' ne (hip, from Baltimore in America, captain
I 1 Hill, in want of convwy to the coast of ling- j t}r ;
land, you will fee him fafe to any fM>rt on j r£
nc " the call part of England or Scotland, for
which this (hail be your order,
old- DUNCAN,
liral To [be captain or command
beY ing officers of any of his
hy, majesty's (hips or veflels f OI
' r • under lord Duncan's com
°P" mand. N<
ence
[sen- The following paragraph are copiedfrom late
thfe London papers :
fits It is said, that the French directory, w'ifh-
dom ing tlr> renew the negociations with Amfri
iedi- ca, hare proposed to give up the jiflarid of j_j
for- Guadaloupe to the United States as a fecu
ifety rity for the adjustment of American claims
have in confequtnce of the depredations coaimit
y are ted by the French cruizcrs on American
flip- commerce.
'elves General Washington is supposed by some
d the politician to be too old for the command of
iots ! any army. Certainly, judging from the age p
pre- of European commanders, it appears like
:ople railing the dead ; yet the Americans may q
1 sup- perhaps think that a little experience is not
the worst quality of a general. _ j
We find, that on the. 25th Angtift, in
the Iri(h house of commons, a bill of attain- ,
i'dif. der was pal Ted against 26 pcrfons, whose
aren- names were read by tiie clerk, among whom j.
•h the vycrc Hamilton Rowan. James Napper 1 an
f the - Theobald Wol-'e Tone, v John Lexvins, j
h r or and 9 dissenting clergymen. The condition
■ 'col- avoiding the attainder, was to furrt-nder
„ e ar p themfclves before a particular period fptcifi
jtlud- ed in the biU <
1-antly 7
s and ' Notice is hereby given,
tlktn THAT application will be madt to the treasury
ildiers, of the y.ntea ititv» iortfe renewal of the follow- (
is* certificates of fix per cents funded debts, ftat.d-
the tiativ- of yuie Gabritlle Rigavrf, of Geneva,
e P 1 " 0 ' which were tea fioiqoo board the i*W»llow Pack- '
down tt Cap-, Kidd, from i-almouth toNew-Yoik.
>. D °"'
N0.3195. Reg. office !9thMr.y '95, icerr. for icoo
13,181. do. 14th do. do. f do-for 3500
eKtino ' Witlings Ssf Francis.
n their odober 14. eod6w -
I, and Notice is hereby given,
of Fro. THAT application will be made to the Treafn-
Hav of the United States, for the renewal of the
ricadcd following Ccrtlficatis of Si* Per Cent funded
French Stock, Handing in the name of Jetn CarloncU, of
A f.ondan, thj said Certificates hiving I e.'n 101 lon
/ „ b ua ra ibe Swallow Packet, Captath Kidd. from
■le ItU- Fa i mout h to New-York
charge. 0 . i I Cert, for aooo dolls. '
ip from 2964 1 do. JOOO >
res the IO , f i o , 3000 • J
all that J milwgs CS* Francis.
r eight Philadelphia, august 30. • otw
TAjt csa>ettc» j
. * ' .
• PHI L A DEL P lIA , y tft
FRIDAY VVENING, OCTOBER 26. Howla
i oni t
FIRE! . £ r l>
Lad evening the city was alarmed by the at E'fn
cry ot ftre. It prov»d to be a house in t (li flet
Fifth near Catharine .ftieet, belonging to Can.]
Mr. John Burohil, in the occupancy of Capt.
Captain William Rofs. The fire ftrft ap- fehobm
pearerl in the fo'qf,; and, nntwithftanding Charle
the alertnefj of the. £ilizetij, entirely con- Cotnmi
fumed It. Capt:.Rx)fs and one of his chil- to NOl
dren were ill of the fever at the time the ral fail
fire broke ouj, bat were immediately re- the 19
! moved. with al
j DIEDA-John Lightbody, bookbinder, ther.
and his son ; they returned to the city about A ft
t» r elve diys fine: with another family, from Rudia,
■ the neighbourhood of Derby : each lamily an< l bit
eonfi!\ed of three persons—os the whole were k
number (>ve are dead, and the survivor, who The
is the daughter of Lightbody, is now ill. ftadt, a
They livetd in Stcond-ftreet, near one ot th? (j Briti
Methodist meeting houses'. C. We
- at Elfi
champs. Second llreetnorth, Nj. 255,3- mtrica
ged 28 ytars from Lo icVon. arm at
- Lticv
' nrk. and lh;
New-Ttrh, QSober 25.
The French troops lately landed in Irelan.l,
though con emtib'e in p-iint of num
i ber3, seem nevertbelefs to he agreeable to a l'njf
. geftion of the lite Lord E. Fit? erald, as rela- Mary
r ted ic one ot the state trials, by Mr. Reynolds,
! the principle witness on tbc part,of the cr»wn. J o }, n
It is Hated as having been nude in a conlV cn ' e
the latter had with his Lordship, Jnd is as.sol
' lows; .
' i "He (Lord Bethought government Interi
! 1 ded to arrelt him. and that tic Vifhed he could Rema;
) 1 get off to Frjnceto haftetiThe invasion, which
- lie could do by his iHtirmry with Talleyrand ]
» ! Perigord, one of the French' Mioiltrys" he said
t | '< he wou(d-not approve of a general invasion at
! full but that the French Tiad fine fait fail
ing frigates, on bo<rd *hit-h lie couH put Is ma
r ny- Englilh and Irith officers as he tould pro-*
cure to coir.t from France, and as many persons I
capable of drilling men as could get, with £y
{tores, ammunition and military; and run these
into f me p*f in this kingdo.n—he thought 1
Wexford —as the most likely to be unfufpec- 1
' e ted, and being amongst their friends, if this i
1- fuccerded he could eltablifh a rallyiog-point j I '
t- until other help fheuld coine." j ver, r
| phyfi
1( j It i< said, that when it was'known in Paris,
that one Logan had arrived there fiom Jcfferfou .
ie and bis party, it was immediately taken for 1
8 granted that he was the Mingo chief, celebrated ' L
'I- l>y Jefferfon in his notes upon Virginia—and , del
:h that it was on this supposition that he was an- CI
1, nsunced in one of their publications by the ap- rQ o |j
iT pellation of the brave Logan. W.e may next L ;
expeft from them a dissertation on hii elo- '
qnence and a fpecimeq.given, j -
* r " ■■■ m i mmmm . dtl
" <lsajettc Marine %ift. »
Fi
Se
Chejler, OS«ber 25. T
ARRIVED Days. - JJc
Ship George, Gibfou, Bordeaux 34 St '
Brig Venns, , do* 2 7 ; T
Captain Gibfon, on the 28th September, ! Fi
"? l j lat. 45 25, long. 5, 45, fell in with a fleet 1 £
al " : of fix fill of the line, three frigates, and a , ' G
'B' ! brig, lUnding in a dire& course towards (i
on Ireland. The Captain supposes them to y/
or hase been a Frei.ch squadron. R
_ . W
Vejjsls failed on the 16th September, W
from Bordeaux. J'
Ship Argus, of New York, Capt. Ward, £
for New York. C
Ship Perseverance, of New York, Capt.
Norton, for New fork. , .
Brig Tryphynia. of Capt. ~
!a " Griffin, for Philadelphia.
Brig Amazone, of New York; Gapt. Pe- J
' -" terfon, for New York.
Schoi/ntr of New York, Ca, t. £
° Howard, for New Ybr*. \ mcl
'. cu ' Schooner Eglantine, of New Yotk, Capt. - (ng
lf ? 3 Smith, for New York. boli
mit- j
' can Vejfels left at Bordeaux. rep
Ship Elizabeth, of New York, Captain thi
° me r Watkins, for Isle of France.
° Ship Sampson, of New York, Captain. ,
, 3 S e Rooke, for New York.
Ship Two Friends, of New York, Capt. otli
may Christie, for Philadelphia. _J
1 not Ship Abigail, of New York, Capt. Rh«a,
destination unknown. (}, a
' Brig Endeavour, of Bollon, Capt. Rice, n i
V 3'"" for New York. N<
Brig Indußry, of Charleston, Capt. Wil- f"'
' h , om son, for Charleston. . v'
Brig Pilgrim, of Philadelphia, Captain
: vl ." S ' Peas.:, for hew York. _ rel
liti.m g r jg gride, of Philadelphia, Qapt. Bir- jj ;
rell, fqr Philadelphia. ta!
ICC Brig Sally and Betsey, of Philadelphia,
Capt. Rathe, for Philad Iphia.
Brig Argo, of Bolton, Capt- fox
Philadelphia. _
eafnry jj r ig of I hiladelphia, Captain
n. 10, j" Clark, for Philadelphia.
Llll Brig Hopewell, of Philadelphia, Captain
Pack.' , for Philadelphia.
k. Schooner , of Philadelphia, Capt- A
BolU. M'Gomeny, f«r New York.
t icoo Schooner Little Joliti of Boston.
r/^ 00 bchoOßcr Mary, of Button, Capt. Shtiller. a
16w. .
Veffels on trial at Bourdeaux. g
Ship Terfey, of New-York, condemned
rreafn- . 1 \
of the »» COUrM ' rXT u • t
funded trig ,of Newburyport, captain 1
indt, of Lunt.
loft on _
I. from Veffelffcaptured by the French privateer t
Spartiate, of Bourdeaux, 34. days from <
/ New-York. J
f Snow Charles, Stephen Lee mailer, from ,
• New-York to Hamburgh, in lat. 55»0i. ,
nets, . .
•o6w north long. 19. 01.
A- 53 ■ » <v V'J.VI #•» a";
' Skip Titnmny, from Nnrfollc to Ldsr
; poo!. Lri£ Mary fru"n Philadelphia.
r • Salem, OBuler iq.
Yesterday jrrivrj!
Howlaud from St. ■ Sailed
f cm Crpnftadt Aug. I. Left there (hip Eo
terpvife of Salem, brig Chrifla of E il»n,
flrip Diana of Aug. .12 arrived
at E'finoTC, and Sept. 3 failed >riih a Bii
t'fh fleet underconvoy. 1 In the convoy were
Ca;>t. Meek and Capt. IJlackler of Salem.
Capt. Whitfield of Ballon, (hip Sally a d
fchobne: Indnftry of Boston, fliip John us
Charlcflon, (hip Qeorg* and Maty, and
Cotnmers, of Newport. Sept. 6, put ia
to Norway in a heavy ga!e, in which feve, ,
ral fail were seen t« founder. Sailed again ,
the 191b with the fleet, but soon parted
with all but Capt. WhWield, and with him
on tlie 20th. blowing hard, and bad wea
ther.
A few day# before Capt- H. failed from
RulTia, the magazine at Cronftadt 'oak fire
and blew up, and upwards of thirty men
were killed and wounded by the explosion.
The night Capt. H. failed from Crof
ftadc, a (hip took fire, and was the means of
6 JJriiith.lhips being burnt up.
We had great accounts (fays Capt. H.)
at Elfinore, of war between France and A
mtrica, caufird f me of the
arm at "Copenhagen Capt. Meek, in the (hi|>
■ Lucv of Salem, took on. board 10 guns,
and ihippcd a number 1 of tnen extraordinary.
CITV HOSPITAL REPORT,
! prom 25th to 2,6 th Oftober. \
ADMITTED.
Mary Clark, Eighth-rtreet« near Morris's
> building. . ,
John Patutrfon. No. 166, North Watcr-
Urret.
DIED f
Mary M'lntofli. ~
i 'Remaining in the Hospital, 49. 30 of whom.
1 are on the recovery.
Interred from city and suburbs 10
■J • City Hospital 1
'I Total 11
PHILIP S. PHYSICK:
s Christopher Dakrah, Steward.
h By order of the Board of Managers.
e WILLIAM JONES, Prefiient.
'' j Attest, Timothy Paxson, Clerk.
lt J TWELVE new cases cf theprevailiiig fe
ver, reported for the last 24 hours, by 16
1 physicians.
J," List of all the Burials in the several Graif
•J Tards of the City and Liberties of Phila*
id j delphia, as taken from the looks kept by
a- Clergymen, Sextons, Isfc.
[Collected for the Gazette of the UnitUJ".
jjj* States, by ROBERT_£
"'4' JVames ojTtht Burial Grounds. "5 S
I r - *
Chrilt Chursh - - - 00
L St. Peter's - -• - - 1 ®
U St. Pauls - - - - - 6,0
Firll Prefbvrerian - -
Second Pnfbyterian - 0 0
Third Frefbyte'ian ... 00
, Seo?8 Prefcyierian - - 0 ®
* i Affonate Church . - - •
34; St. Mary's Church - - 1 0
2 7 ; Trinity Church ... 0 *
er, 1 Friends' ..... 1 o
e ±. ' Frae Quakers' ... 1 o
\\'! S*ede? r 00
, | , German Lutheran - - - s 00
German Keformed-Prefcyterian 1 0
Moravians* - - 01
BaptilU' -
Methodists' - • • 00
Univerfalifts' .... 00
Jews' ' - - - - -„ ' ° *
j 1 City Hospital - • - • >l.O
' Kenfmgton .... t >
Coite.'s o.| o
pt. • t : —-- —
Tjtal for the last 14 hours ig %
,p '* samuel p.arker,
Pe. BRJSS and BELL FOUNDER.
Wr, 7, Mulberry (Ireet,
t N UES to carry 011 the brafifaundery
' ' bnftnefs a* usual, where h;s former custo
mers and the public may he lupplied With cast.
a P' - ings machines to any pattern, rudder braces,
# bolts, &c for (hips.
It may be proper to add, that, as it has been
reported he had declined the business, S. P. tikes
tain 'h' 3 of inlnrming the publia tliat he ji
making arrangemenxs to carry it on still more
exienflvrly, hoping thereby to comply prompt
itain. j w i t h such orders as he may hive to execute.
igj of any Tze, east For churches and
apt- other inflituli'ons ; printers rules, *c. ►
Oftober 56 eo .'jt. , ,
h«a, Whereas the certificate of two
(bares of the Bank of the United States in the
name of Samuel Jlmory, of London, banker,
jNfo 3181, ifFued in lieu of 11593, U. 594, were
Wil- forwarded from London by the Brititfi packet
v Countefd, of Lejcttter, capt. Dudtl, botwid for
• n New York, which packet was captured by the
renewal of which, application is made at said
B' r * Bank,.and alt pcrfons concerned are desired to
take notice.
phia, CLEMENT BIDDLE.
'Fhila. Ofl 26, 1798. eoft'v
s > for v CUSTOM HOUSE,
. . Cbefler, 13d 0^«
stain NOTICE
To the MERCH ANTS of Philadelphia,
iptain The owners and conftgnees of goods hy the -
William Penn, Philadelphia, Jaue, Kinjiton,
Capt- Amiable and other veflel* lately arrived, are re
quested to forward to this Office as soon as pof
fib'e, their refpeflive 'entries and invoices, in
ordtr that permits for landing may be prepared,
luller. an J rea( jy hand them, so soon as the ret' in
ing health of the City will admit the vefiels to
go up. A dueattention to this notice may be of
emned convenience to the merchants, who probably
will be desirous to receive their goods very ex
j., • peditioufly. GEO. LATJ.MtK,
P 318 H , Pt Coffef/or.
THE Owners of Goods on board
ivateer the (hip William Pins, arc informed that the
I from Colleaor of the Cnftoms will receive such invaice
and rntnes as may be forwarded to him, and will
r make the necessary calcu ations and prepare the
'> * rom bonds so tl a' permits may be im.-ncdiately
5, 01. oq the arrival of the (hip at Philadelphia*
Oitobcr 43. S lwi „f . . , j
PROPOSALS, !"
BY THI j
Insurance Company of North America. !,
For Insurance again ft Firs, on Dwelling- j
Houses, Wa-re Houses, and other Buildings (and
on Goods coittaWitrd in such Buildings) distant from
Philadelphia. in the United States.
I. Jommoß lufurancef, on hazard* of the fir ft
elaPs, will be undertaken at a premium of ahout
hall ptr cent, pet annum. For extra Nazardous
rifquvs a larger will be squired, which j
will vaiy according to circuvftances, seldom ex- '
ceedinv ©ne per cent, per annum ; biit in fame in
ftancs, v/hcre the property insured is not only in
extra fcarardous, tut rendered still more so
ny tire vtcinity of extra hazardous buildings and
occupations, thepremfum demanded will be railed
Recording to circumftar.ces.
Heules and Ware-Houses, the walls and parti
tions of wfciph are wholly of /lone or Vrick, well
fo as to ]»> guarded as well be
Again ft fires from w thin, and tree from extra ha
sar.iL'Us buildings and occupations in their neigh
borhood, will ht deemed hazardous of the firft
class, and may be insured to their full value.
Also Goods and Merchandize, not o an extra
hazardous kind, in calks : bales, or package, de
politcd irk such buildings, to an amount not ex
cec iihg 4 000 dollars ; but if more than this sum
is required to be insured in one tenement, an addi
tional prem»um will be required, in proportion to
circumtlarees.
H. Info ranees will also be made on building? and
gor».li{xrrs hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to rh« ri'one But ir is i«nt t \fy to arrange tlnfe
un ler pip ieular or clafTes, so as to describe
each wit) l th r necessary accuracy. Each cafr "tiuft
therefore he decided upon according to theciVcum-
tHiding it ; and these circumftancrA wili,
in general, appear from the dcfcriptu n accompa
nying tke application.
Buildings partly conftru&ed of brick or stone,
are prt-f. rable to those wholly wooder. And in
both caft-s, the stile of huiWinty, how they are oc
cupied, how they are situated, the neighboring
buildings, and how occupied, are considerations to
be taken into view. And withrefpe.fl t© goods,
their tendency, whether fr»m |hi ir nature, or
from the manner in which they are cxpofed, ether
to commence"cir to increase an accidental fire, a»d
their liability in ftich Hate to receive damage by
ws, or by sudden an-J haQy removal, or to be sto
len in time of confuiion and hurry, are all cir
cumstances of weight ; and the premiums must be
proportioned accordingly.
HI. The following conditiont are to be under
stood by the part ies .
I it. The Insurance is nrt binding till the fttpu
laftf.! premium be paid ; but it shall be deemed ef
feclral from tie time of such payment and accep
tance thereof, whether the policy "be immediately
signed or tint.
ad. Infurance# may be renewed at the expira
tion of the term of the pojicy, without further ex
pt rfe* than the payment of thV premium of the re
ae.f-e.-J term, the circumftancescontinuing the fame
as they were nnderftoou by the Infurcrs at the time
the farmer insurance was made ; hut the payment
of the preiy ium is elTential f© such renewal ; and
if the party insured fuffers any time to elapse dfter
the expiration o. tV.c former iufurance, before he
p ys a premium for the lar.cwal, he is liot insured
during such time ; nor can the insurance be renew • 1
*■-<1 fin the former policy I>4& by commuting t-he
£ymifci r.cem«n t<> f the renewal from tht expiration
ct the fcrrnfr/.vriluranre. The fubjed of ipfijr-
VMicc may n< he open to treaty for a new 1
iofu rarer.
j
syl* 1 * "t the t.~-> •
plication 'r iH be vtfid.
4th Goods held in trull, or pn consignment,
~ way be mfured as such in a Separate policy; but 1
they are not t® be confiderecj ?s iniured etherwife. ]
sth. l"hii coir.pifiy will not be liable or aecoun- 1
taWc for any loss or daniageoccaCou'd by any lor- !
eign lavu!i*-'P ,w" y -." ny military or usurped i'orce
or by ot atiy civil commotion ; or occasion, 1
cd by i uapowdir, aquafortis or of th- 1
like kir.d kept in the building, cr atuongll the pro
pert*- insured. '
6th. Biils of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu
rities, T/tle De.'ris. Money, B.ink and other pro- 1
oitflsry Notes, are not included in any insurance ; '
nor are paiatitlgs', medal", jewels, gems, antique
curioCties or mfrrori exceeding the value of twen
ty-five dollarsea-ch, to be considered as insured une
less particultrly mtuticned asd by special agree
ment.
7111. Ho insurance will be trnde for a shorter
term than ore year, nor for a longer term than fe- j c
vtn years. Ferfons choosing to infare for seven '
ycirs ftisll b eallowed one year's premium by way
of ili/count: One third of a year« premium shall r
he abated 111 like manner on an insurance for e
three years. a
Bth. Losses fuflained by fire an property injure J, r
shall be paid in thirty days after due proof and li- (
quidation thereof, without dedu&ion. c
A dcfciiption of the property to be iufurod will a
be exp;dled with sach application, to be made by f
a ma<lcr carpenter and finned by him, as weir as y
by ths owner of the building 01 applicant for in- a
furr-ice, and attested before a Notary oi' principal f
Magiftrai u, who will certify his knowledge of the j
p*riies and their credibility. ,
With rcfpefl t» Houses and other Buildings. a
ill. Ihe lite and pofitioii; deftribing the (1
llreti or road on or near which the building 1
(lands ; its contiguity to water, and other cir- f
cuinlUnces relative to the extmguilhment of fire
in cafe of accident ; and particularly whether e
any and what fire companies are eftablifhcd, and h
engines provided,in the place or neighbourhood. P
id. The materials of which it is built, whe
ther of brick, (lone or wood, and what part of
each, as well as to the otitfide walls at iufidc or
partition walls, and their refpeitive height and
thicknels ; the flyle nf the roof and of what
mitemls; howfecured by battlements or par
ty walls; what kind of acccfs to the top of the '/
house a>:d to the chinmies ; whether any and
what tledlrie rods ; the number and kind of
fire pUccs ; and the kind of depcfit for ashes.
3<i. Ihe diinenfions of the building and how
divided, and the flyle in which it is ftnilhed so
as to enable indifferent persons to judge in what
(innner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
in';ury j the ?ge and condition of the bui'Jicg,
and how occupied, whether merely as a dwel
ling lioufc, or for any other, and for what par
pole , also an estimate of the value of the house
or buildifte independent of the ground. »
' 4th. The fituatior with refpedl to other build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
nor, comprehending at leaf! one hundred feet
each way : what kind of buildings are within
that dillaHce, how built, of what materials, and
l:o» occupied or improved, whether as dwel- 1
lings for private families or otherwise : whe- J
thcr any and what traie or manufactory is car- ''
ried oil, and particularly whether there be any ''
rxtra hazardous articles used, or ufu&lly depo
(ited in the ho'jfe, or within the dillancc afore- n
fiid, :nd«of what kind. c
in Houses, Warehouses, 4c. ti
I. A j eneial drfcription of the building in b
which they art kept will bt expedled, fimiiar in t<
all refpofls as to tbedaDger from (ire, with that "
rrquirt d fur Insurance 011 the buildings them- l '
selves. _ n
a. A dtfefiption oftliekitids and nature of 11
the goods, whether in ofks or other packages, al
or opened ; and whether displayed in whole f
,Vicecs or in th« ul'Bil form for retajlijij,-. And
• 1 if tU« foods vzrvmater,ially in kind, a general,
leftiinafff of thf value of each kind proposed to
be insured ; but in the lait |>a)itici/lAr unnute
i ness of Hcfcription is not expected.
I 3. Articles o? the following kinds are deem
• led extra ka/ardous, though in vsrir,us ifeg^ees,
" jin whatever bi»iMing they may fee p'actd, viz. 1
d pitch, hr,turpentine, robn, tallow, oil, '
n inflammablelpirits, fulphor, hemp, flax, cotton,
dry geods of an inflammable kind opened.—
Glifs, china ware or porceUin, efpectally un
t parked; Looking glAflcs, jewelery ; snd all o
. ther articles mors than commonly inCarrufnalilc,
or nr.ore than commonly liable to injurj* by fud
.. | den removad of by raoiflures, or particularly
obnoxious to theft on an alarm of fire.
n Letters poll paid, direitad to the Secretary of
o the Board of Diretflors, will be rluly attended
d to. An order for by the
d means of paying the premiuhi, will be imme
diately executed on the premium being paid. If
i- the application contain an enquiry onjy, it Will
11 be.answered.
e By order of the Board,
>- EBF.NEZER HAZARD, Stc'ry.
l " Office of the Insurance Company of Nort« )
America ; Philad. Feb. I, 1798. 5
Feb. 14. iaiVitf
•a
Mills, Portage, See.
TO BE LEASED FOR A TEAM OF YEARS.
a r T Obe leafed, for a term not less th»n three,
A »or more than seven years, a V ALUABI.K
d PROPERTY at the Seneca-Falls, in the county of
d Onondago, Ind (late of New-York, on the Banks
"e of the Ssneca-river, two miles weft of tbe Cayuga
te ferry, and I'even miles east of Geneva.
(I Thi* eftabli>'fiment of an excellent gtift
1- mi'.!, saw mill, duelling house, barn, and a port
i, age or carrying place, with between thirty and
1- forty acres of land, under good improv«ment,and
;<s much more in tlic vicinity, as may be required
for future improvement,
n \ The grift mill is a handsome, new and -well fiij
> iftied building, of 50 by 30 feet, 3 {lories high
gaud furrilrhed with a run of excellent Burr ftoncs
0 and another of Efopus' stones, of the belt quality
s, —and the most approved boalts, &c. to
,r make all the different qualities of flour for oxpor
r tation or for homeconfumption : ItisacceUible by
U water from every part of th« Cayuga lake and Se
y neca-river, as well as fronr th« Seneca-lake—;a'nd
j. fromits fitnatioti, commands averyextcr.five and
encreafi/(g enftom : The stream on which it stands,
, e being the outlet of the Seneca-lake, the mill cau
never be in want of water ; and as it has been kept
workingduring the fevtreft feafoc of the lalt win
ter, it is not liable to be impeded by froft :
The saw mill is also new, situated 011 the fame
> dream, now furniflied with an ample flock of
t- logs, of which a supply may at all times be pro
y cured by iand or water, of the belt quality :
The d .celling house is well calculated for the use
!■ of the miller, is new, and fulficiently laige : The
_ barn is about 40 feet fiquare, and new :
The portage is 3-4thsof a mil* in length, along
e the Seneca-falls—over which were pafTcd in the
tf lalt year, nearly two hundred boats with their
t contents ; this objeA is already produitive of a
,j handsome income, which mud be increasing and
r permanent:
e Anioeg the many advantages of thisfituation,
[1 must be numbered the fertility of the funewnding
country —being the b.ft improved pan of the coun
e ty < f Onondaga—the concentration
r-1 course by land and water, the Geneffee ftateroad 1
paHing through it, as well as all water carriage to
v Geneva, ar-1 the counties of Ontario and Steuben ;
which renders it a moll eligible Hand for a Store or
e Tavern—Thelrivcr and lakes abound in lift and
Jp , with deer and other game.
■■ .til.Tinted for any additional^a^er^' , ! ac? ( !L
may l>e found nec.'ffary— falling mill, taik m"
t tannery, forges, &c. maybe erected at a fniall ex
pense—lron ort; may be brought in boatslromthe .
- Q'yi'Sa lake ; and kia th#ught to abound in the
. neighborhood.
The flock on hand w : ll be fold to the lessee, and
, the cattl**, utcn&ls, smith's forge, may befold
. or let the premises.
If a purchase (hould offer for the wholo or an
undivided part of the premises it willbe fold.
F®r terms of sale or lease, apply to mr. WrL
. eelmusMyndirsi, at the Scsneca falls, or to the
; fubferiber, at Schene&ady.
STEPHEN N. BAYARD.
inne T. 5 aawzm
! Federal Mills,
A DJOINING Georgetown, and th« City of
r ! -tA. Washington, will be offered at Public Sale, '
■ | on the 10th day of September next, at the Union '
1 Tavtrn, if not previously fold at Private sale. <
' Those mills in point of situation for bafinefs and
' natural advantage; are generally admitted to be
' equal to any in America. The Merchant Mill is
a large bnrk house, eighty feet by fifty, almost
» new, in which are ereitcd four pair of Burr mill
■ flonss with elevators, hopperboys and bolting j
cloths, compl'taly finiihed and constructed in such 1
1 a manner that the whole of the mills may manu. 1
' fa&urj flour at the fame time. The country mill
> which is created near the other, is entirely new, a
■ a Srong flone building, containing one pair of '
1 stones, and built in such a manner that the fecoUd I
; pair may be put up with little expence. This mill
is conveniently finilhsd, and calculated to carry on e
extensively, country work, of which it gets aeon- 1
' ftsnt supply. I'here is belonging to the said mills v
274 acrts of land, the whole of which will be '
fold with the mills. *
Of third of the purchase money will be requir- 1
ed in sixty days from the day of sale, and fjr t(ie e
balance a liberal credit will be .given. Furthar
particulars willbe made known on the day ef sale. *■
JOSEPH E. ROWLES, i
Surviving partner of
JOSEPH E. ROWLES to" Co.
Georgetown, july 13. »i__3awts '
LANDING, !
'AtS«ut.h Street wharf, the r cargo ofths fliip Con
ned icot, from r
About 300 tons of Java Coffee,
of the giowth of 1794 and 1795
60 tons of Java Sugar,
In catimfters—for sale by
PETER BLIGHT, „
WHO ALSO OrFEHS FOR l.ui, r
Ija hhds.choice.famaica Sugars
Jamaica rum 111 hhds
Brandy l(l and 4th proof ia pipes, hhds. .
and quarter calks
Madeira in pipes '
Old Batavia Arrack
j"'y * <5
John Haines bf Wm. Jones, 1
BEG leave toinform their'friends and the public,
that they have commenced a Co-partiicrfhip
in thi SADDLING BUSINESS, which will ia '
future be sarriedon under the firm of si
HAINES (5- JONES, 1
n Market street, No. 132, one door above the •
corner of Flarth,—where they presume (at li-ast 'J
to h#pe) that their attention to, and knowledge in ! ■"
bufinefj, their determination to ferye on the bt it j
terms, anil their known attachment as Native A- 1
nrjencans to the Government and Cnnftitution of
their Courtty, will entitle them to the encourage-'
ment of a generous public. Although they can- :
not boalt of having scquired their ixperience in
any part of Europe, yet they take the liberty of (
pledging themfelvcs, that their aianufaaure ftal *
be inferior to none ill this city. 1
juae a 6. , ut h st f j 1
/ f
■
tiVTY on CARRIAGE.
3.
Notice Is hereby given,
HPHAT agreeably to an a A of Congress of trie ;
i# X United {States of America, pafTcj at Pl/ila- ] ,
r t delphia the 28th day of May, 1796, hvin£ da- J ?
ties on carriages for the -conveyance<s of j*er&>ns, a:iJ j \
repealing the former ad* for that pu-rpofe—That | t
carri?gcs for the convry?.uce of perfolia, which t
stall be kept by or ior any person, for his of her <
own use, or to let out to hire, or for the convey- (
ing of paflengers, the fcveral d*iics and rates fat- -
lowing, viz. dojls- (
y For and upon every coach r 15 (
ypon every chariot l
upon f very post chariot 12
upon every post cluife ii
upon every phaeton, with or without top 9
upon every coachce , 9
If upon other carriages, having paßnel
11 work above, with blinds, glaffei, > 9
or curtains 3
upon four-wheel carriages having
frame polls and tops, with heel > 6
fpriugs )
upon four \vh*eltop carriages, with ")
wooden or iron firings on jacks y J
upon ctirricies with tops * 3
upon chailcs with tops 3
upon chair* with tops 3
-*• upon sulkies with teps 3
upon other two whetl top carriages 3
e, lipon two wheel carriages wkh fleel")
H cr iron springs j '
For and upon all other two wheel carriages a
ts upon every four wheeled triage, "J
1- having framed posts asd tops, > 1
and retting upon wooden spars j
ft The CoMe&er of the revenue ol the firft divilion
t of the ftrft survey of the dlftri<st of Pennsylvania,
d will attend daily until the 30th day of September
d next, for the purpose of receiving the dutie-s on
d carriage*,' at termantown, cn the Main ftrect, a
little above the fijn of the King cf Prussia, ef
1 which all persons polleffed of ftich carriages are
* deiired to take notice.
Notice is also given,
To all retail dealers in wines and (ot eign distilled
. spirituous liquors, that licenses will be granted to
them ; one licence for carrying on the business of
retailing of win s in a less quantity, or in less
uantities, than 30 gallon®—and one licence for
j au ying on the business of retailing spirituous li
s quars in less quantities tjian twenty gallons, at the
' fame time and at the fame place, by
)t JAMES ASH,
Colle&or of the ift division ps ihe ill
Survey of the diftrid of Penniylvsfnia.
e Office of lnfpe&ion at Germantown, ")
2id August, 1798. J
( Jlvejy denooiination of Stamps to be had
at said office.
e it" The Stamp Press is removed
e to the Ofltt# of Inspection in Garmantown, on the
Main £reet, a little ahove the figa of the King of
g Prussia,—where attendance will be given for the
e accommodation of those who wifli any inlirwmcnts
r fiamped, on Tuesdays, Tkurfdays and Saturdays,
a ugu-ta
d For Sale at Public Au&ion,
1, ON THE PREMISES,
g LOTS on Harper and Keith's wharf, in
1. JL Alexandria, on the 26th day of O&ober
■- next, if not fold at private sale before that time,
d One of these lots is near the end of the wharf,
0 twenty feet beyond which the water is tWo fath«ms
; deep, abdut forty feet out three fathoms, fifty feet
r out the watef is four fathoms, and grows deeper
d until it comtp to the channel, which is about sev
enty feet from the end of the wharf. There Is
t as much dirt belonging to the bank as will level
it th# wharf, which may want raising about a foot
■- ,s ,n this sal* an half acre lot
e. ceHent a"danex
e be fold for ready money, and a
atc, as may best suit the purchafcr ; it lays on the
d lower fide of Alexandria, which is now improving
d very fad. A fketchof the ground may be fsen in
the of the Printer hereof. For terms at
n private sale, apyly to Wm HarTshorne, or to
the fubferiber, inAlexandria.
JOHN HARPER,
e September 3 lawßw
Wants Employment,
A YOUNG MA,N, who has served a regu
lar apprenticelhip to the mercantile busi
ness in this city, withes to engage in a Couuting
£ house oroffic*, w rites a good hand and under
, stands accounts, can be well recommended and
1 fccurity given if required. Enquire at the
office of this Gazette.
1 j"" e " 3 awtf
; Baikenridge—for sale
t TT consists of 9 la acres, almost all of which ia
. 1 a fine rich Maadow, (the refidccteof the late 1
\ Eurl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
1 into five farms, four of are bounded on the
, End by the river Paf&iek.
j 1 h<r" are oa ita number of buildings, forming
) afquare of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
F is a very convenient one and'c fmalleipence would
| put it in complete repair
| The orchard consists of 1500 finsbearing eno-raf
x ed Apple Trees and there is on other pirtsoffaid
. trail near 300 other Apple Trees—a, also a great t
, variery of other fruits, particularly Clicrnes of the •
, best and most delicious kinds, 1
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and S
ForeflTteas, that add to th« beauty and eonveni- Z
ence of the place. Its situation is about j8 iniLss
. from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do. t
, frsm Morris-Town, and ta fror. Spriugfield—lt
is wooded and watered. t
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre C
in calh, on delivery of the deeds. Please to tn
<luirc ot T. McEUEN & Co. C
No. 78, Chcfnut trcet.
ebcuary i. eodtf
Patent Ploughs, t
T<3 bel fold for eafh by joseph Salter at Atfion t
, ~A , Ru '' a / d Cooper's Ferry-Jonathan
Harker, Woodbury and JefPe Evans, Lumber
ton, Those who have used them give them the
preference to any other kind, as they require
iefstt»m, breik the ground better ire k'tpt in "
order at less expence and are fold nt a cheaper
rate—the plan is much Amplified and confilfs of
but one pitce of call iron, with the handles ami
beam efwood ; they may be fixed with wrought t!
■ lays snd coulter, to be put on with screws wd -
taken off at plealure t j
Patent tights for ". ending with inftruAions for p
making tlrem may be had by applying to John r
■ Newbold, or the fubferiber No. N orth p
Front-street.
Who has for Sale;
; Or to Lease for a ierm of tears, « /
, - A ntimlier of valuable of Land well ,
situated for Mills, Iron .Vorksor Farms, mod- |
ly improved, lying chifflv in the envnty of Hun
tingdon flat* of Pennfyivani*. Those who may 3
incline to view tfcm will please to apply °
j , John Canan efq.near Huntingdon. Cl
• Claries NtwbolJ. r
: : J»'y'? 2awtf I
To be Let,
An airy three Story Brick Haiise «
ON the South fide of Filbert ;»r fe t be'we n P
Eighth and Ninth ftren, formerly oVcuX"
as the Surveyor Genersl's Oftccv-£nquirc at No
I iJ i, Chelnut Street. q Cat No "
sugaft to £oJt
AN ACT «
ftr the }//;;/ of ibi Refugees frim iht BnUfh
.provinces of Canada and Nova-Scetia.
£) E -t coated by the Senate and House
• tfc 1 ' I) of luptefeitalivef of the United
\ States tf Americ«, ia ajpmhlcd, That
\ t i the claims ot certain pertons claiming
| land? niulrr the <»f Congrffs, ol tbe
t ; trvtrit-j -third of April, one thousand seven hun
' drejJ and eighty-three, end the tliirlcCOfb of
1 April, one thousand seven hundred and eighty'
r five, as refugees from the British province! of
" Cuiadi and Nov.vScntia, the Secretary for the
" Department of War, be, and is hereby autho
rized and (tireacd to give notice in one or more
of thf public papers of each of the States of
2 Ventlbn;, Maffachuletls, New-Ycrk, New
\ HampHiiie and Pcnisfylvania, tdallperfonshav
ing claims m Jertbe fiid resolutions, to tranf
' mit tn the within two yeau ?fter
the pifii .gr-of 'his A just and true amount
n of their clairns to the Uijuiity oi Congress.
Stc. 2. Jtn.l hi it further enadei, That no
other perlbns (hall be entitled to the benefit of the
6 provillons of this aft, th.tnthofeof tli? follow
ing defcriptionjt or their widows knd heirs, viz.
Firll, those heads of families, and finglc per
-5 lons, no! « .embers of ar.y foeh families, who
3 were reOdenis in one of the provinces aforesaid,
3 prior to the fourth day of July, one thousand
J seven hundred and seventy-six, and who aban
-3 don-cd their fettlcments, in eonfequenceof hav
-3 ing given aid to the United Colonies or States,
3 in the revolutionary War agaiaft Gr'.'at-Britaio,
or with intention to give such uitl, and continu
-1 ed in the United States, or in their service, dur
ing the faiJ tv ar, and ctid not return to reside in
1 the dominion* of the king < f Great-Briuiii,
prior to the twenty-fifih of November, one
( j tlimifand seven hundred and eighty-three. S«-
r M condly, the widows and heirs of all focli per
, j sons as were a&ual residents, as aforefaid, who
a I abandoned their fettlemcnts, a» aforefaid, and
f I died within the United States, or in their fer
e vice during the said war : and thirdly,' all per
sons who were members of fjmiliea at the time
of their coming into the United States, and who
, during the war, entered into their fer/ree.
Sec. j. /Irtd be it further enatled, That the
f pro..f of the several eircumfiances necessary to
entitle the applicants to the benefits of this a<£t,
r may be taken before a judge of the or
. diftri<n court cf the United States, or a judge
e of the supreme *r superior court, or t%»c firil jtsf
ticeorfirll judge of the court oi common pleas
or county court of any Sute.
t See. 4. -And be it further enacted. That at
the exoiration of fifteen months from and after
tfee palfing of this atf, and from time to time
thereafter, it shall be the duty of the Secretary
1 for the Department of War, t<> lay such evi
dence of claims as he may have received, before
1 the Secretary and Comptroller of the Treasury,
e and with them, proceed to examine the tefti-
I mony, and give their judgment what quantity
z of la ,I ought to be allowed to the individual
s claimants, m proportion to the degree of their
. refpcdlive fcrvices, facrifices and fuffermgi, in
consequence of their attachment to the caufeof
the United States ; allowing to those of the firft
class a quantity not-t xccetlmgone thousand acres ;
and to the lafl class, a quantity not exeeeding
' one hundred, mailing such intermediate cUfies
r at the resolutions aforefaid, and dillrihutive jus-,
tice, ifiay, iH their judgment require, and make ,
' report thereof, to Congress. A-nd in cafe any
s such claimant ihall have l'uftained such losses and
lufferings, or performed such services for the
United States, that he cannot justly be clafled
s in any one general class, a separate report shall
j be mode of his circuinftances, together with the
t quantity of land that ought to be allowed him,
t having reference to the foregoing ratio : Pro
. >vided, that in considering what tomperif L ti«ii_
t _ought to be made by virtue of this adl, all gi ants
- exeepr m ititary—g, w hich may have been
■ made by the United Stares, or individual States,
r shall be considered at the just va<ue thereof, at
« the time the fame were made, refpeilively, ei
t ther in whole or in part, as the cile may be, a
) fatisfatfion to those who may have received the
fame : Provided also, that no claim under this
law, shall be assignable until after report nude
to Coagrefs, as aforefaid, and until the said
lands be granted to the persons entitled to the
benefit of this afl.
Sec. j. Be it farther enaded, That all claims
' in virtue of said resolutions of Congress, which
(hall not be exhibited as aforefaid, within the
j time by this ail limited, (hall forever thereafter
be barred.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives
TH : JEFFERSON,
Vice-President of the United States,
, and Preftdent of the Senate.
Approted, yfpril ju 1798.
I JOHN ADAMS,
Preftdent of the United States.
Depofifed among the Rolls in the ofSce of the
; Department of Stale,
Timothy Pickering,
Secretary of State.
CC> Purfuatit to the above Act, No
tice is hereby given to all persons leav
ing claims under the resolutions of Con
gress, of the 23d of April, 1783, and
the 13th of April, 1785, to tranfmitto
the War-Office within two years after
; the passing of the said Ac% viz. the 7th
daycf April, 1798, a just end true ac
count of their claims to the bounty of
, Congress.
In the proof of Claims, a drift atten
tion must be paid to the requisitions of
the 2d and 3d Sections of the Aft.
JAMES M'HENRY,
Secretary of War.
_july_»9 Saw6w
AURORA OFFICE; ~
OSober 10, 1798.
Reports having been circulated
that THE AURORA was not to be rc-publifhed, 1
—The public are hereby refpeAful'y informed
that the waur of hands alone has prevented its '
publirarion several days ago; but that such ar- '
rapg<Mnei:ts are now making as will gffurc the ap- '<
pcarance ot the paper in the course of the prefect, ]
or the firll week of the next mouth. ' (
Mails for South-Carolina iff Georgia, ]
T) ACKIi TS are now provided for carrying the 1
-®- Public mailiby water between Phila telpbia
and Charleston. They will leave PhiiacUfSfcia
011 Friday's. The post by land will Uec film
ed twice a week until an experiment i* made in
rtgsrd to the expedition ind reculanty of the
packets. If any person ciiiifes' to have their '
letters lent by land only, thry will please to
write the word Land upon the letters : other- 1
2?/'" lit fen£ b Vconveyance which <
will firft Urt alter the letters are left Li tLe 1
potl-fc,{s<.e» c
y°f ( ph HaberjhajHy J
, . , Pofl-Majlcr Gimer/.
rbi:intelphia 3 Jugujhl, J
Th is Day Pdblijhed
And for file at the Office of the Editor, No.
119 Chefnut-ftrtft,
(Price l-itb of a Dollar, J
J N. ORATION,
Pronounced July 4,1798,
At therequeft of the Inhabitants of the Town of
BOSTON, in commemoration of the anni
verfiry of American Independence.
By J oil ah ShitNcr.
" The inroads upon our public liberty, call
for reparation—The wrongs we have fultained,
call for. —J*sf!ee. That Reparation and thst
Juftiee, may yet be obtained, by Union, Spirit,
and Firmness. But to divide and conquer wa»
the maxim of the Bevil in the garden of Eden,
and to disunite arid enslave hath been the princi
ple of all his votaries from that period to the
present."
Oimi-valieiu on the Boston Port-Bill, lsc.p. 7g
i f the late J. Quincj, jun.
t augnft n *
; TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
JoN« 17, 1798.
ATOTICE IS HEREBY GIVIiN, That by vic
1N tue of an aA, paired during the present fef
' fion «f Congress, so much of the ail entituled
| " An Aft making further provision forthefup
" port c£ public credit, and for the redemption
" of the public debt"—patted the third day of
March, one thousand seven hundred and Dinety
-1 five, as bars frona settlement or allowance,
1 Certificates, commonly called Loan Oflieeand
■ final fetrlcment Certificates, and Indents of In
■ ferefli, is suspended until the twelfth day o
1 June, which will be in the year one thousand icven
, hundred and ninety nin2.
That on the liquidation and settlement of the
. said Certificates, and Indents of lotercll, at the
Freafury, the Creditors will he entitled to receive
1 C ertificates of iunded I hrc»* Per Ct'nt. Stockeouaf
[ .to the amount of the said Indents, ami the arrear
. ages of intcreft due on their laid prior
to the firfl day of January one thousand seven
, hundred and ninety one.
t That the principal fumsof the said I.oan Office
and final settlement Certificates, with the intcreft
thereon, fmce the firft day of January, one thou
sand seven hundred and ninety one. will be dif
chirged after liquidation at the Treafary, by the
; payment of interift ar.d rcimburf-mxent of princi
pal, equal to ths funis which would have been
payable thereon, if the faia Certificates had been
fubferibed, pursuant to the Ails making provision
1 forthe debts of the United States, coEtruded '.lur
ing the lat; war, and by the payment of other
liims, cq«.d to the market value of the remaining
Stock, which would have been created by such
fuhfcriptiothf as aforefaid, which market value will
be determined by the Comptroller of theTreal'ury.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary ef the 7rtafury\
} une *8 lawtf
General Port-Office,
PROPOSALS for carrying the mails of the-
United States 011 the following routes will
be received at this office until the 20th day of
Sepfcmber next inclusive.
J. Frori) Pittfburg P. by Cannonfcurg, Wash
ington, Weft-Liberty, Wheeling and Wiils
town to Zanes at the mouth of Ltcking-creek,
on »fce Mufkingum, fcftimated 140 miles.
Leave l'ittlhurg every Friday at 2 p w'. and
arrive at Zanes the next Monday by 8 P. M.
Returning—have Zanos every Tuesday at 5
A. M. and arrive at Pittfburg the nestt Fri.iav by
10 A. M.
2. From Zanes, at the mouth of Licking
Crock on the Mufkingum, by Chilicothe and »
MafTey's to MayfviUe in Kentucky ; efti mated
140 miles.
Leave Zanes every Tnefday a* 5 f,. m. and
arrive at Miyfvdle the next Friday by 10 A. M.
,tWar " i =w=Leave Msyfviile every Friday by
2 P. M. and arrive « next Monday by
The carriage of the mails to commence on the
tirft day of November next and continue until
the firft day of Oilt ber jBOO. Payments will
be made quarterly.
The ulna] penalties for delays and failures will
be itipuiated in the contradl.
Joseph Habrrjham,
p,, ~. Pojl-Mafier General.
Philadelphia. July i 7 98. m&th6w
health office.
_ Philadelphia, if May, 179*.
txtrail of an ail to alter and amend the Health
1-98' 01 th '' Commor,wea ' tl1 ' passed 4th April
Sea. 8- A fre it further eaaaed.fcy the au
thority alorefaid, That every house*
keeper w.thin the city sf Philadelphia, the town.
Ta 0 !, 1 Northern Liberties and Moyaratnfwg,
and dillrid of iiouthwark, within a mile of the li
mitsol the city, taking in'boarders arriving by fca
or by land, from any foreign porter place, and ha
ving any baarder in his or her family, who fhnli be
aken licit oi »ay difcife whatsoever, between the
firft day of May the tirft day of November in
any year, within twenty days next after such boar
der fiiall come to lodge in his or her house, shall
within 24 hour, next after the knowledge of such
ucknefs. ,make report at the Health.Office of the
name offuc.hfick person, thetimeofhis or herar
rival at the house and of his or.her beipg tafcen sick
and of the name and plsce of abode of fich house-
P ' r A w ' l " eu P on tllc p hyficiait of the Health-
OfEce (hall forthwith visit the patient, and report
to the oihee his ipiiiion of the nature of fu-h dis
ease, that measures may be taken to urereut the
fprcading of the infeSion; and if any houfekeeoer
faall negleil to give information in the manner and
within the time aforefaid, and fiiallhe thereof con
v"i s!ed, in any court of criminal jurisdiction within
this Coniaiou weal til spoc indictment by verdi A
or confeflion, he 01 she (hall forfeit and pay a tine
CO the use of the said holpitil,„ot less than twentr
dollars, nor more than one hundred dollars tobr
impofed at the discretion of the court, according to
the circumstances of greater or lef, aggravation -t
tend.ng each pa. (icul.ir cafe. ."
By order of the Board of Health
WM ALI.EN, Health Officer
— _ of the Port of Philadelphia.
CAUTION.
WHEREAS a certain ptrfonfw/ndlca
from tne on the firft ir.it. by giving,
me .ukeu thereof aforged chrck on the Bank
of North America, anote of that date, drawa
in my favour by Mr. John Travis; 3n d r»y-
Bbkm fix months for three thousand fouv
hundred and fifty seven dollaf s and forty-fis
cents. ALL persons are ddired not to re
ceive any transter of it. as it will not be
paid by eiMer the drawer or endorser unless
recovered oy law.
WILLIAM NICHOLS, '
„ , Race Street.
augult 6.
vT^ U n~ C are hersby infor nied^
5 r J.' l '' 1 ai Ihorife Col. WiK
i. am Nichols to declare, that I would not Par
un'efs tccovered by kw, my note alluded „ in ' X
can-.,0n, of ue 6th qf Augutt, published in s he O»!
«tteof the Uu-.ted States of evening Jf m
cer. ly l,mcm !o: s a:i d uld him I d 0
all I , oui.l no canfiflent y with mv 1- , ?
him. hat v cut B o further. X U " '° ferTC
august 7 TRA7-IS, ,
i