* * ;; i.«-v v..
#af ette * mis Ulteu JltaCeo 9 m»
By John Wars Fen no, N°- i i 9 Chef-nut Street.
ftuMßS* 1 949-3
I
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 's> *79B' {Volume XIV.
FOR SALE,
The fajl failing Schooner
; three sisters,
WZ&m is now ready to take a cargo on NO
I h"u.''ofed will carry 600 or 650 barrels. below
ALSO, A SMALL I*VOICE _ al u
■ JAVA COFFEE, «,
SuhjeS to drawback,
Enquire of
TEIfU HOLLINGSWORTH W Co.
No. 47, Penn Street
dccember II Q
For New-York Ssf Bojlon.
' The new and fad failing Sloop Ti
; PRESIDENT-PACKET,
' J AMEI Brackstt, majler. Br
WILL fa.l withallconveßientfpeed—l-or freight Lc
or paflage apply to the matter on board, lying at
Chefnut-ftreet Wharf. 1
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
On board said Sloop, K
30 bbls. of cod-oil, fined quality j),
1 20 do. of heir;ng ard ftiad
' Few half do. mackrael
A small quantity cf fnioaked herring
60 bbls. of w inter pears -£~
500© bunches of onions
4000 lbs. of excellent eheefe, 4 fei
Philadelphia, d c. n. t eo<^3t
, iiim&
Ship Broker's Office, ~
And Commiflion Store,
[6 No. 119, South front Strfft,
s, Next door to she Cufloia Hnufs. _
THE Subscriber, encouragt.d oy the advice of \ (
his friends, oflers his l'ervice :i> the public
as a Ship and Insurance Broker. Me propoi
e« to buy and fell veflels and evety relat- av£
»Is ing thereto —afhft masters of vriTcis and others
in entering and clearing at the Cwitom-Houfe,
procuring and shipping freight, fettling Inlur- SUI
ance ar.d all ether mercantile accounts, and
have on hand the oectflary Blan Its and Stamps. f* e J
Papers in foreign languages tranila.ed, and in- ''
iormation given in general mercantile natters. fl
—From a knowledge gained by long experience 0
of every branch of business he hopes to be use- LC
r \ ful to those who please to favor him with their
0 commands. SAMUEL EMERT.
November T9 $
SALE 'or CHARTER,
THE SHIP
L ' M ° L L Y '
.en Burthen 4200 bairels of Flour,
of pTivA'Philadelphia built, well found
fitted, and may be ready j
to rceeTVE-I~Caff<nn 1 rew day a—Hie
18 gun», and mounts 12 new fix poußders, with
small arms iu proportion.
, THE SHIP
the vM? DIANA,
Burthen 2,100 barrels of Flour,
I Philadelphia huilt of live oak
; c i_ j "and csdar, i» pierced for four
the j teen guns, md mounts ten new four pounders,
to 1 with small arms in proportion.
ind I
Lhe THE BRIG
:er ' AMAZON,
® urt h'n 1,300 barrels of Flour,
1 " i™«« - N ew _E n gl a nd built, has lately
I been completely fitted, and may be ready for sea
1 in a few days.
Forterrosapply to -o
r NICKLIA &URIFPI7H. "
Who have for Sale
on hoardfundry vejfels at Marcos-Hook,
,I' 12,000 bulhels of Liverpool fine fait
I i,ioo bushels of coals
286 crates of queens ware afTorte'd
•1 , I 7 tierces of bottled porter ,
10 barrels of coleothard pamt v
le s s - I 4 do. of purple brown do.
" J 1 quantity ofyellaw ocre in casks
6 barrels powdered Venetian red paint
" y j 6 barrels mineral black do.
j 15 barrels Spanish brown do.
I 35 boxes of pipes
1 1 boxes whue ) HAVANA SUGARS
| 89 do. brown )
j 3i5 o0 'h'. prime cochineal
3 barrels New Orleans indigo
4 puncheons Jamaica spirits
t j 20 bales of fail eanvafs
I 379 fheet9of copper, afiirted from 48 by 24
I to 60 by 48 inches
j Two tubs raised still bottoms afTorted
36 fix'poiind guns 44 feet, each
£■> I ; 14 do. 4 feet, icwt and 4lbs each S
len I 50 barrels of gun powder
6 cases Mancheftercotton checks
3 trunks mullins and shawls
i. I 14 cases muflinets, dimities and ghighams
;t j 28 chests coloured nankeens, muflinets, &c.
12 trunks printed calicoes
6 bales of white and coloured cafikncres .
1 bale of course woollens
I English nails afTorted.
F, I O<3ober27. fri.&fat. tf.
AUGUSTUS FRICKE,
r a « WoollenDraperyMen'sMercer
No. '],fouth Thirdjlreet,
HAS RECEIVED,
j per the lafl arrival from Europe, a large alTort- r
§ I mcnt of the fafhionable Goods in his line,
j And has conflantly for sale a general ajfort-
I menl of
ell rate London luperfine Broad I
Cloths
Caflimeres
J Vest Patterns of all kinds
I evcr ? ol^cr article in the gentleman's line
r • by whole sale and retail,
ys. — | december 10
r on K: taylor; * 1
et. MUSIC PROFESSOR,
IW j NO. 96, NCIRTH SIXTH-STREET, j
I ''EC 1 F ULLY informs the Public that
IV he continues to teafh Ladies the Piano
t. j Forte as nlual.
iw Nov. 6. tuth , a
FOR BREMEN,
jfVM,, THE BRIG Co
SPECULA? lON, b
Arend Wieting, Master,
NOW layir>g at Henry Pratt's wharf, the firft j
below Race ftre« t—lhe is a Bremen bottom ; two
hundred and twenty tons burthen ; will fail with
ah poflible dilpatch—For freight or passage apply Whi
to r
PRATT KINTZING, J*
no. 95, north IVater-Jireet.
Who have for sale, a variety of
GERMAN GOODS,
VIZ.
Ticklenburghs Patterbornes a^c
Oznabrigs Checks t
Hessians Stripes
Brown rolls Slippers
Coffee bags Cam'sricks A t
Platillas Twine
Brittinias Glass tumblers
Eflopailles Port wine
Creas ala Morlaix Window ghft
B elciield liner. Brimfione, & . B
Dorolaa 1\
december if th.famfl.3w
FOR LIVERPOOL, Z
TilE ARMED SHIP MOLLY,
' Burthen 340 Tons;
■'f "> [lout vilt-lound vcSTcl.. She is now " 1
r • acy to rtc ' ve her Cargo, and will <•
.ail on the firft opening of the rivsr. "
1 I,it. .|'«'th» »i l»r Loading l.elrig al.early pro- *
vi led—Mr Fright lor the remainder, or Passage,
apply to
NICKLIN 8c GRIFFITH. * c f
dec. 13. tuth&s rf. R
REMOVAL. u!
_ Sal
#-« ta Iro
Geokge Dobson, 1
f TTNFORMS his friends and the Public in general
A that he has removed from Mo. 15, South Third ]
Street, t» No Qa,South fideaf Markct-ftreet, near
the corner «y Third Street, an J is row opening
a very extensive affortraent i-f I n
* DRY GOODS,
- SUH ABLE FOR THE PRESENT SF.ASON,
d WHICH HE HAS JUST RECEIVED,
s# Per the (hips William Penn, Amiable, and Jane,
from and per Chefa,peak and Thomas
j from Liverpool, and will be fold low for caih,
e or approved notes at a short date, viz, F
London 7-4 Superfine Cloths and Efl
ir Caffimeres, faihionable colours W
Yorkshire 7 4 do. and do. Sv*
Mixed and plain coatings Ol
Welch flannds Ju
Kerfcy heaver, for Spencers A.
Jeannets and Tabby cords
Velvets a*!d velvetteens
Velverers and thickfetts
7, 8, 4 4 and 11-8 cotton and linen checks
r ' 78 and 4 4 bed tics
6-4and 7-4 bed bunts
'y JSNM&at* ctufttw-wnd ckintK furmtucee
Furniture cottons
h Do. dimities
Purple and chintz shawls
Silk do.
Camels hair do.
Silk, cotton, and worded hole
India and Brstifh muslins of every defeription |\
r J Black and white orape
Tiffany and paper fans ca
r " Hats assorted in Tmall cases 311
s > Umbrellas ¥* P _
Peelings and fattins
I>aces and edgings
Ribbands
Silk Modes
Superfine French cambriclc
ir > Cambrick muilius
'y Do. threads **■
ea Pulicat and Madras Handkerchiefs,
And an elegant assortment of
Brussels and Wilton Carpeting. _
novembor 17 §
Forfale by the fubferibers, L
A FEW BALES OF tl
WOOLENS,
Containing Cloths & Blankets,
150 bales Bengal muflius j
20 do. Madras handkerchiefs, elegant pat-
terns t j
202 pieces Ruflia (heeting * a
10 boxes umbrellas
a quantity of caflia
30 tons Petersburg clean hemp I
- J
deira wine
a quantity of Iheathing copper
Mordecai Lewis.
Nov. 26 d2w *
Imported
IN THE LAST ARRIVALS,
ich Superfine, fine and common cloths
Swandowns
Baizes
Velvetts
11s Velveretts
Sec. Printed calicoes
Furniture & fancy dimities
s Hair ribbands
Sewing silk
Bruflcls and Persia catpetts
Buttons
For sale, for cajh or credit, by
SAMUEL MERRICK,
no. 143 Arch flrcet.
;er nov. 16 §tjanl
LANDING,
ort " From 011 board the Brig Amiable Matilda,
r , Richard Stites, Master, from Cape
Nichela Mole.
, 23 Bales Soeks and Flannel Drawers
jg Do. Gaiters i 5' o
z Do.
I Do. Havre Sacks j a»
i Do. Flannel Trowfers I g
line i Do. Tents, j•< c
* I
Also just Imported,
In the Ship Chesapeake, Captain Webb, f.am
Liverpool,
147 Crates of Queen's Ware,
Assorted particularly to suit the Weft-India I
,hat Market—For Sale by
Thomas Z& John Ketland.
S1 november 7 5
Bond Sc Brooks,
Corner of Market and Sixth streits,
HAPE RECEIVED,
by the late arrivals from London, Liver
pool and Hull, ist h
A large ano general assorment of f°n»
DRY GOODS, L m an,
Which they are now opening for sale, at the mofl to
reduced prises, for calh or the usual credit. to ad
nov 17 S
Old Madeira Wine.
27 pipes of old London particular
MADEIRA WINE, e t
n strong iron bound Hambro' caflis, for
ale by ROBERT ANDREWS.
Nov. 30. eodtf Pi
JAMAICA ~
/t Cargo now landing at SouthJlreet wharf,
FOR SALE BV
£ PETER BLIGHT,
Apply at Stores on the Wharf,
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SALE, ! Eith
BRANDY, Ift and 4th proof
Madeira and Port WINES, &c. &c. 1
Nov. I. dtf_ n(
JuJl imported in Jhips William Penn, A
iniahle and Jean,from London,
, A quantity of Cannon,Czes 4,6 & 9 lb. 7 with balls
[ Ca ronades, 12 lbs. S suitable. ' 0 n
Mufqucts, Mufquetoons.Cutlalles anu~)
X'iliols, for ships use, I g. tu 11
Rifled barreled Guns, Fowling pieces, t § "
' and Horseman's FiCols,, 1 •5""2 SA
40c ,000 Flints, chiefly for murfkets, in ; g* n
kejts- _ J
Regulation Light Dragoon Sabres, with Iron Scab
bards, in eal'csof jo s.ach, rj
Light Cavalry Swcr.ls in Cases
Sabres, Swords and CutlafTos, with plated mountiHg t [j e
Ironmongery -and Cutlery in calks, a general af
fortmcot—For Sale by S L UI
1 Thomas & fno. Ketland, ed 1
Philad. Oilober 25. e1
r - to I
Just Arrived,
In the Brig Eliza, from the Mediterranean, and 01
now landing a? Walnut Street wharf,
r , Fourth proof Brandy in Pipes.
Brirnfttne. (
An assortment of valuable DRUGS, ;
CONSISTING Of
' Opium, Aloes, Cantharides, Camphire, Senna, 1
1 CremorTartar, Ac. &c. g ai
Essences of Lemon rnd Bergamot t he
Writing paper
Sweet oil in bottles and flafks
Olives, anchovies and capers ket
Juniper berries p e]
A L S o.—ltalian luteflrings
Satins n
Crapes 10
Umbrellas
ts Remaining on Hand, 11
St. Croix Sugars,
Claret in cafa» _
Old Madeira Wine of the fir£t quality. 1
JAMES YARD. J
November 3 §
Genteel Boarding & Lodgineu.wi
IN A HEALTHY SITUATION.
m TV TRS. M'CREA informs htr frieHds and tiifl|
IVI Public, that (he is prepared to accommo- m ,
date several Gentlemen, wiih genteel Boarding fr<
and Lodging, at No. i 7, Filbert ttrcet. dc
nov. 28 dtf
Evening School. I)
S. LE WIS,
TNFORMS the Public that his EVENING
A SCHOOL for Young Gentlemen will open
for the Winter, on Monday, December 10, at
No. 2C;i Arch-flrect, near Sixth.Street.
dec 7 d3t r
w~ATNT~TTB. ■
ca
Convenient Lodgings, for an elderly ed
Ladv, in a refpeflable private family, where
there are no children. Enquire at this office.
dec 4 d:m
NOTICE.
' A LL werfons indebted to the eflate of James
xTL Tuompson, of the Indian Queen, Fourth
at " street daceafed. are difired to payment to
the fubferibers —and those who have any demands
againfl thf said eflate, arc reqi.efted to fend in their /
accounts dulyattcfted for fattlement, to *
MARGARET THOMPSOIi,") Adminiflratrii. rr
JOHN THOMPSON, j Adtniniftrator. It
a ~ nov. *3 dim tt
James & William Miller,
No. 53, North Third Street,
Near Arch flreet, have the following articles for
fale upon moderate terms for calh, or the r
usual credit. t
Scarlet Cloths,
1 Low and middling quality, Mulberry and Green
ditto, White, Red, and Yellow Irifli Flannels,
Blue, Green, and Mulberry half thicks. India ca
licoes, Gurrahs, Mamoodies, Guazines, and other
muslins, fancy and plain cotton bofe, velvets, thick
fetts and fancy cords, sewing silk and twifi of all
colours, ferreting, hair ribbon, coloured threads,
India flag bandanoes, and other black and colour
ed silk handkerchiefs, a variety of other cotton
do. Soute romals, red Gilla handkerchiefs, mo
teens, foan spinning;, fuflians, beavers, jeans, fa
tmetts and royal ribbs, also muflinets and dimities,
' ginghams, ladies' kid and coloured gloves; &c-
EC. nov.jsi diot
i John Dobbin,
BOOT y SHOEMAKER.
RESPECTFULLY informs his Friends and
ua the Public in general that he carries on his
' business at No 99 South Second-Jlreet, nearly op- .
polite the Merchants CofTee house where gen
tlemen maybe Aipplied in the neatest and befl '
r—heaflures rhofe who may please to fa
us- vor him with their commands that no attention c
I" » or exertion 011 his ftde shall be wanting to render 1
' r ti him worthy of their encouragement. i
N. B. Orders received will be punilually at- s
■ tended to. 1
november 5 $ ]
•-.» WOT ICE.
ALL persons who have any demrnds against ]
the eflate of the late William Clifton, ,
idia I d 'eeafed, and who have not already produced their .
j their accounts, arc requefled to fend them to the
fubferiber at no 172, north f'ccond flrcct. ,
ELIZABETH TUCKER, Adm'x
§ Philadelphia, nov. 27. 1798 m&tli4W
NOTICE.
THE COPARTNERSHIP OF
HUDSON YORKE,
is th'u> day dissolved hy mutual confsnt. All per
sons indebted to fai*i firm are requeued to make
immediate payment—a.id thole who have any de
mands are requeued to present them i*r fettlcment
* to WILLIAM HUDSON, v.ho it duly authorifod
to adjull the fame.
WII.LIAM HUDSON,
SAMUEL YORK.F..
WILLIAM HUDSON,
NO. 54, NORTH FRONT-STRE ET, I
Has for iale on the usual terms, a very
exteniive assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Dec. 10. iw.
- FOR SALE
By the Subscribers,
ON VERY LOWTERMS
WAX CANDLES,
OF A SUPERIOR ftUALITV,
Either by the (ingle box of 24lbs. or by the quan
tity.
Wtilings vS* Francis.
Nov. 24
'Notice.
ALL Persons indebted to the Estate of doc.-
tor Hugh Hodge, deceaied, are requested
to m»ke immediate payment —and these having
demands against the Eilate aredel'ied to authen
ticate and present them to.
MARIA HODGE, admimjlratrix.
SAIMUEL HODGDEN, admimjltater.
nov 20
b- Notice is hereby Given.
T I 'HAT application will b: made aj the Trea.
1. fury of the Ucited States, for the renewal cf
'£ the following cer*ificstes of Funded Debt/iland
l*" ing in the name of Robert Whitworth, of Chclfea,
London, thefaid Certificates having Been forward
ed by the (hip Ellice, Hatvey, from London for
New-York, captured by the French, and liippofad
to be IoR.
No* 11437, 6 Per Cent. Stock, dated New*
n( j York, 18th April, 1796, f*r Dollars. 1481,47.
No. 8171, 3 Per Cent, dated New-York,
lßth April 1796, for doHars 400.
SAMUEL MILBANK.
novemher 18 • il6w
' Notice is hereby Given,
That application will be made at the
Bank of the United States for the renewal of
the following certificates of Bank stock, (landing
in the name of Hodgfon Atkinlon of London.,
which were loft from on board the Swallow Pac
ket, capt. Kidd, captured hy the French, and all
persons concerned are defiredto take notice.
No. 2424, iflfued in lieu of No. 1891,
1892, 5662 and 16640, for 4 (hare 9.
No. 3020, issued in Lieu of 11055, aUw
1105 71 for 3 (hares.— 7 (hares.
THOMAS M-EUEN fig* Co.
Nov. 18 d3in
JAMES & RICHARD SMIIH,
MAVE this day returned from the country to
their STORE, No. 54, South-Front street,
re they hsve for sale, as usual, a large and ge
neral assortment of European and Eaft-lr.dia
4$ ** DRT GOODS ,
no- mod of which have now arrived and are landing,
ing from the different vessels, from Hamburgh, Lon
don, Liverpool and Hull.
Their Cuflomers by applying will find almost
every article generally imported, and. at a>• bw
prices for calh or credit,as they can be had elfe
whene.
N. B. A few Cases of Nurenbergh TOYS, a
consignment, to be fold by the cafe only.
fG Philadelphia, Nov. 1, 1798. dtf
? ,Z Millenery Room,
No. 136, Mar let Street.
' or four young women who are well ac-
JL quainted with rhe Millenery business, and
| can bring good recommendations may be employ
rly I ed. y applying as above to
itre D. CHRYSTAL.
Nov. 16 §
Englilh wrought Nails.
ME . S Imported in the Jbips Molly and Diana, from
Jft LIVERPOOL.
400 Casks of Nails,
heir /CONSISTING of 6d, Bd, iod, I2(J, and
aod, flat points suitable for the southern
ix. market—6d, Bd, iod, nd, and iod, finedrawn
r. fliarps—alio s, 3, 4, and 6 clouts—fprigs—
n lucks—(cupper nails—fheathisg nails,
KOK SALE BY,
Robert Denifon, jimr.
f or 127 Market-ftrcet.
For Sale, at the Stores of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
rcen nl, ' f afiorted
ne^s so biles of fail canvass, from No. x to 8
, ca ' 5 3 calks yellow ochre
ithcr 1 J tierces bottled porter, 6to 14 doz each
litk London particular > Madeira wines
,f a n India market J
eads, Teneriffe do. in hogtheadsand pip
our- Old Port do. in hhds.
itton Empty Claret bottles
mo 6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Muflinets &fc.
, fa- aflorted for the Well-India market
ities, 4, 10, andfl inch cablesand 10 coils<*f cordage
- Writing fiates, ink {lands and presses
ot 29 purcheons Jamaica rum
I bale seaming twine
160 bundles sheathing paper
NickJi-/i £s* Griffith.
and april 7 tu'.h&f.tf
nhis TQ B£ SOLD(
"en- T) URSUA NT to the last will and testament of
bell Michail CATTi.deceafcd.a valnable
ofa- Plantation & Tradt of Land,
?l ion containing one hundred ard seventy threr acres,
nder the Teflator's late residence, situated in North
Sufquehanna Hundred, C.'ocil county, Maryland,
y at- about three mile- from the tide-water of Sufque
hanna, and at a convenient distance from fuveral
J place* of worlhip of Friends ard Preihytereans.
On the premif« are a Tan yard and tonvenien
ce;beloiiging thereto, in good repair; a dwelling
jainft house, liable, orchard and oth' r improvement-,
ton, vfit), uor 15 acres of good watcr«J mead w, and
their a f„oicient proportion ofyaluablc timber.
o 'be For terms apply to the subscriber, in Wid-Not
tingham, 1 miles from the prrmifes.
n ' x THOMAS WARING, Executor
4 W I ith ma. nth, 1798 5Intercepted Letters from France j
to Dr. Priestley.
I
JlfS7 PUBLISHED, '
AND TO BF, SOLD 6V
JAMES HUMPHREY
No 59, South rhird-Stree t,
Oppoftte the Bank of the United States.
[Price, Three Five penny bits]
COPIES of Original Letters, recently writt-n
by Prrfirt*! in Pa»i% to Dr. PriesTley in |
America.—Taken on board a Neutral Vertcl, ani ,
exhibited as evidence against hefj in the High j
Court of Admiralty of Great Britain.
CJ" An Apprentice Wanted, by said
Humphreys
dec < 1 wfa&tujt
FOR SALE,
ATan-Vard, with about thirty two acres-os ]
Land, at Rock-Ran, on the Ilead of the
Tidewater of Sufquehannah, ijt Harford county,
Maryland, wi recn is funk feventy-five Vats, a
Sto* c jVTill and Tan House, with conveniences ©f
Water and other nseefliries sot an extensive Yard, <
a Dwclling-Houfe. Kitchen and divers other ufeful ]
building is thoreon, some of the lan*J» in <
Jots well improved, a good Herring Fifhtry 01 j the <
Jhore. J hcimptovihg Town of Havre de Grade, "
i« about fix miles distant and veflels coming dowa 1
she River, pass close by the premises. A conve- J I
n»ent lit union so get Bark, a flock of which with
the utcnlih fur Tanning, and all the hides in the I
Vat* maybe had with the YarJ. For terms epply
. to John Wilson, near Harford Town* or the Sub
scriber on the premises.
ISAAC WILSON,
ilth mo. 14th auwjw
Charles Campbell,
WATCH-MAKER.
HAS removed to the Shop formefly occupied |
by Mr, John I Pood, No. <5, cofner of"
From arrd Chefnut-ftreetswhere he will thank
fully receive arid execute orders with nettuefs
and difpatrh
nr. HAS CONSTANrIY ON HAND*,
A Ne3t and Large Aflprtment of
Clocks <sf Watches. '*
wan r D,
A JOURNEYMAN t ' H
one of two Apprentices of refpeili- I
ble parents.
FOR SALF,
A lafge quantity of Watch Glaffcs q
Wbolefalt and Retail.
nov 14 .. sawtf
FOR SALE,
By George Plumsted,
No. 166, South Front Strsst.
yo whole Ticrce» J„ . _ Pai
»oo half do. 5 K i C the
jS white Havaana Sugars, entitled to
drawback 3
*,ooo pieces Nankeens, do. do. 1
Auchors weighing I7cwt. and i6cwt. 1
1 t>o boxes containing tea setts of China I
35 boxes of blue and white table setts of do. I
ALSO, B
Boxes containing breakfaft, coffee and even- ®
ing cups and saucers tea pots* cream pot« r fu- B
gar dilbes, pint bowlj, cuftardcups, flat and
t'oup platen and tfifhes. R
Young Hyson Tea JJ
Kins i
Cassia. S
nov*. 1.-, 3taw}w \
Notice.
ALL perforis indebted to the Ef-' '. p
t»te of Isaac TxLrAi r, Efq deceased, are request- \
e,d to make immediate payment, and thofc having a- q
nv demands again ft said Estate will plcafe to fornilh
their accounts duly altered for settlement to
GEORGE DAVIS, J (
Attorney in fafl to
JOHN M'KIM, jr.AdWir. N
Pec. 2w6w
Mrs. Spurrier,
MIDWIFE,
From the cityof London lying-in Hospital, g ax(
EMBRACES this opportunity of returning her g rov
linccre thanks to those ladies whom Ae has i -n
had the honor to attend, and molt rcfpe&fully in
uil-im tl.cni and h«r other friends that (he has re- /![/
moved to sou h Sixth street two doors fr»m Chef- J r J®
nut i'.recr, oppolite Cangreft Hall, where (he ftal
tcrt herfclf by careful attent : on to the duties, of
her prefefli»n to merit their future favors.
nov 28 «Iw&fa.in» "J"*-'
- - Que<
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
June » 7 , i 7 9». A {
XTOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, That by vir- rnd ; a
IN cue of ?n a't, pafTcdduring the profent fef- T on „
fiin fcf Congrcfs, so much of the entituled
" An Aft milking further provifiou forthefup- m
u port cl public credit, and for the redemption s 00
of the public debt"—parted the third day of '~ eFr
March, one thousand seven hundred and ninety- 11
iivc, as bars from settlement or allowance,
Certificates, comtnonly cajiedi Loan Office and
iinal fet'lenicnt Certificates, and Indents of ln
ferrrts, is suspended until the twelftfi. day o
Jup.e, will be in the year one thousand seven Fmbi
hftadrcd and ninety nini. ' to h
That on the liquidation and settlement of the ant
Ciid Certificates, and Indents of Intcreft, at the C
I'reafury, the Creditors will be entitled to receive J
Certificate* of funded Three Per Cent. Stock equal
to tl>c amount of the said Indent*, and the arrear- "\T7
ajjes of intcrcft due on their said Certificates, prior VV
to the firft da.yes }aj>uary one thaufaod seven profel
hundred and ninety one- city o
That the principal fumsof tfu; said Loin Office them
mi 1 final lettlement Certificates, with th« intcrcft cotD[l]
tliereon, since the firft day ol January, one thou- l q ,
Mud seven hundred and ninety one. will be dif- ev
i-liirged after liquidation at the Treufury, by the boucl)
piyn:„iit of interest and reinvburiwreest of priucl- ; nc( j .
yal, equal to the futr.s which would fea.ve been ~ j
payable thereon, if the said Certificates had been lce '
(u'.fc»ibcd, pursuant to the AfU making provision
forihe debts of the United States, coatra&ed d»r- C/
i v ' the late war, and by the payment of other It alo
fiuiM, equal to the marke'jt value of th« remaining nov
ct>ck, whi»h would have been created by such —•—
tublcriptionn asatovefaid, which market value will
bo determined by the Comptroller of theTreafury. T -vj
OLIVER WOLCOTT, | faf '
Secretary of tie Triafury. ot an ]
juneaS with a
Has Holiery. F™ir*
—r- owner
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
AT HIS S-TORF.,
Na. i.34« Ma»KET Streei, . ,
HAS J1 IST Ot*£NKD, in addition to hit for- archer
mcr flock, a very extensive aflortment of j ? u° 4
lYtciiVj Women's, ind Chii ren'a Hats, ard all 1
I 4ids ol Stockia^*—»pait'uulariy a quantity of A- c
h.rdeenkni: iiitibic l'ui fcafon.
vtn>i& coim mh
j Java Coffee,
WCC j a g s of Fifft Qiialitj,
• Now trom on board the mip INDIA, ;
j .it Mr. 1 hrs. fVnrofv's Wharf, and for (ale by (
'John Ash mead,, <
Nn. iff;, South Front-Street. t
WHO HAS ON HAND, ,
For Sale, on reasonable terms, i
Coflata
rittn ,
y i„ | Black Tiffaties, tec.
, anil , 1 ® eotkf
High j y»st Imported,
Iron cannon, d.mble fortified, Woolwich proof,
laid with th«r carriages complete—j, 4, si and 9 C
pounders. ; s
njt ' Carronades, Woolwiih proof, with carriages, &c. ta
- complete—l 2, 18 and 14 pounders. t«
Cannon powder in kegs of ajlbs. each
es- of Round, double-headed, and canniftsr (hot
>f the Patent Iheafhing copper, bright, artortcd 18, ao,
mnty, ai, 14, 16 and 18 or per square foot, Iheets 48
ats, a by 14 inches, suitable for v«flels from 100 to ; /
ces ef 1000 tons ,
Vard, Copper nails, bolts and fpiltes
ufeful Boarding Pikes, aI
nil in Common cutlafles CI
ui the Ounners (lores of all kind.
Iraie, Tin-plates No I—l-3 erofs Wes
lowa Pattnt (hot in calks of jewt. each
inve- London porter and *»fown fta'jt, in calks ef 7 doz. 11
with bottled. 111
n the Earthen ware in ciates, aflorted
T-P'y ' for Sale by
:iub - SIMON WAI.KER,
Pine near sth ftrect. 1
Prober 29. eo.tf. ''
. JuJl Imported, 1
A quantity of falt-petre, refined
Gun powder. F and double scaled battle
Cannon, 4 and 6 pounders
{London porter and Burton Beer
jVfullard squares, 4 ounces te
r 0 f Beit Durham mustard nc
ink- Ginghams, fubjcdl to drawback wl
ness w hich will be fold on moderate terms by pJ
HENRY DAWES, junr. nu
No. S3, south Second ftrect, opposite the
city tavern.
nov- 9 mw.&f ft
Samuel isf Miers Eifher,
No. 27, Dock-Street. r-i
Have received per the Mov ni n G Star, from
Hi- Teneriffe, ' of
Good Cargo Wine, n.
In Pipes, Ho»lheads and Quirter £a(ks, '^ c
Per the Pallas, from Hamburgh, r !
cs German Oznabrigs &Ticklenburgs. Tr
And by the late arrivals ft om London, dai
Liverpool, Bristol, Hull and Dublin, rv,
A GENERAL ASSORTMENT OF an!
WOOLEN GOODS, cap
PRINCIPALLY ®N consignment*
Which they are desirous of felling by the r
Package, in which are separately made up—
the following articles on low terrtfs : u
to Rose Blankets, 6 4, to 10-4
» i & 3 point Wankets
Mottled and green Rugs 6-4 to 3-4
Mixt and drab Forrtfl cloths, sorted
Fearnoughts "T"
Bhie Plains X
Blue, mixt and drab plains, sorted prices flre<
si- Mixt, twill'd, striped and blue coatings, do mas
u- Blue, mixt and brown kersey duffals, sorted of t
id colors and prises rfi
Mirt'dtlrab forted prices ——
Blue Broadcloths, do
Low priced Broadcloth.*, colors neatly sorted
Swanl'down, ftiiped and printed Kerfytneres ''
Mrxed and sorted colored Kerfcymeres
Neat fupcr and fuperfine c'.otlis, filaftrcs and 11
Beveretts
f*_ ■ | White, yellow #nd redFlanßels, sorted prices 4n j
f Green and white Baiae •
l - Yarn Hose and Caps - exan
Coarfe and fine Hats, rn cases of 6 dozen each Was
»o pieces fuperfine wide Black Ruflels
Joans Spinning and Camblets Oi
With an Invoice of common and fine drawn Fi
NAILS, flatt and fliarp points, well aflorted 'JN
They have al/o for Sale, J'
Btitilh Oznabrigs "J -■ Jf'
Ravens Duck S- JN BALES.
( Ruflia She-etings J '' ' and c
'» Saxon and Bohemia Dowlis—in Chests more
Brown quadruple SiJefias and white Phtillat, do dollai
Irilh Linens, in Boxes gy
Irilh Dowlas, white and brown tende
J Irilh Sheetings, do no
Iritti Sacking
f Shot, assorted. Red and White Lead and Span
ilh Brown
T Crawley Millington Steel 2
Queens ware, in Crates
Glass u are, in Crates and hogfheacis I j
Newcastle Griindflones. Boxes tin plates 1
A few pipes London market Teneriffe Wise fl®
• Tndia Romall
; Long Clothi C Iff BtALES. tion |"
Humhums j J in thii
Wocaans Ihoes, iu barrels alnioll
r Spermaceti Candles, in boxes. ° ut ot
II mo 17 3;aw&%« filc oi
—— to pro
JOHN SHIELDS„ have I
„ „ _ from 1
BROKER, Hi.
Embrates this opportunity to frr/ent his thanks P arfi
to his Jel/o-w-citizens for their pajl favors
and acquaints them that lie is returntdfrom A
Chelnut Hill, to his farmer reftdence, the lent.
House Ao. ti Chelnut befjjeen Front BOV
and Second-street, ' "
WHERE he holds himfelt ready to exerute r
their commands in ev.ry branch of his
profeflion, trussing that from a refidcjice in this
city of 35 years he has it in his power to render
them eflential ferviie, alluring them that hit
commiflion lhall be as low as any jn '1 own. 'l^Hl
Lotts, Lands, Houles, VclTels, Certificates
of every description and bills of Kxchange, ,he s,a
bought and fold, thedocketts carefully exam- twem y
ined and clear titles made upon the (horteft no- thc Utl
tice, by the public's hamble servant, * Monda
CT Good negotiable Note* di&ouoted i ' .
it a low premium. » "
,>oVCmllcr 7 3aw,f
L 0 S 7\ ~ " 6o ' c
TN one of the streets between Union and Saf- c O ,
X fafras, on the Jt h inllant, the outside Casi v , C
ol an Englilh Gold Watch, chafed on the baek Not "
with a foje.d Any person who may find the f ,1* C:
fame, and will biuig ,t to this office, will receive '
Four Dollars reward, and the thanks of the ,
owner. alway* I
dec. 7. B °ver
All Perforis f-
Indebted to the hftate of HENRY HILL, deecafed
a« rquefted to make payment to thc fuhfenber •
and thole having any demands on the fame to pro EXE
duceth.ir account, for f«ttlemcnt.
CIDEON H. WELLS, ti
.. ~, . , n ®- IJ9, Market street
fchiladelphii, dee. 4l 17# Mtf oft> ,
injurance Company of North America.
7, THE STOCK HOLDERS, !
, DIA, are hereby inforir.-d, that a staled meeting
fjle by 0 f t f- e C om pany will be held at their OfSce
» on the Bth of January next, (being the fe
-ect. cond Tnefday in the Month) for the elec
tion of twenty-five Diredtors for the enfu-
S, ing vcar.
E. HAZARD, Sec'ry.
Dec. 12 th.
An Apprentice Wanted.
proof, A YOUTH,
and t) Of Reputable Conne&ioni, & fuflkicnt qualifications,.
is wantrrl at an Apprentice to the Bufihefs of a No,
rs, Sit. tary Public and Conveyancer,—Enquire of the Piin
tcr. |
Dec. f n.iw,
10 g ' Philadelphia, N vernier 26, 1798. 1
ce to A L.L perfont desirous ot funiithinjr hy cjntrjfl j
i XJL ration los provisions, ftnw and fuel, for nil <
the troops, which rfow art, or nereaftcr may be
at any or every itation, poll,- eticanpncMt, rc- c
cruiting rerdexvous or elfeivhere in tho state of v
Pennsylvania, for and during the year 1:9), ex- t
cept at Prei'qu' !fle, La Btruff, Fore FranHWi and c
Pittfburg—will tic pleifcd to fend in their propo
-7 doz. un<^cr fealeu covert, on or before the 20th of "
next month, December, to
TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor.
THE RATION TO CONSIST OF , tl
. c t. I 1-4 pound of beef or 340f a pound ol pork v. C
~t f . 18 ounces as brtador flour c;
I gill of rum, brandy or whiskey.
»- quarts of fait
4 quarts of vinegar ( _ . * c
;,le 4 pounds of soap every 100 rat.ons.
I l-llb.candki. Jo'
As Congrcfsmay at their next fellion make al- f r
terations in the quantity of the compo
x ncnt parts of this ration—it is of those In
who tway offer proposals to price of each te
sby which will ferveto govern in cafe of dimi- g<
nr. nucion or increase. h
the nov. Ift tu t vrfc-h taoD
rft Bank of the United States. ™
November 14, 1798.
NOTICE IS HE RE Br GIVEN, a "
' I I HAT application will be matle at the I re a
from X I'ur.y of the United States for the retiewal in
of a Certificate of Six per Cent Funded Debt, | of
No. 15,548, tor 18,;8j dollars, 33 cents, dated j fei
( Hegillcr't Office, January Bth, 1798, iflucd in
the names of William hVillink, 'Jan IViUink, p.
Nicholas isf Jacob Fan Staphor/t & Hubitard, 1 .'
§S. Truftets For sundry money-lenders in Arnfter- j
■ dam; which was forwarded the ilthof |
ry, 1798, under cover to Nicholas Ohbes, esq. fer
and loft hv the capture of the fbip Columbus, tie
captain Skinner,from New-York for Amflerdam in
C. Simpfun, cajb'r. J the
'he nov 14 iaw6w Jj| n
p A capital fiand for Buftnefs.
to be rented, " nv:
AHO POSSESSION GI'EN, mo
On the %th day of February. Ke
I 'HE commodious Four Stocy Brick Htmfeon of
-L the South fide of Market, near Water- fhoi
flreet, at prel'ent occupied 33 a Tavern, by Tho- ] ort
10 mas Palmer, For tcritu, Enquire at the offke
ted of thit Gaiette. Lar
dec s aawtf at 1
we i
d Canal Lottery No. 11. 8 Tl
rts W H I r e-commence drawing intheeourfe of * °
, - ' the prcfent month.
11 RICKETS. to be had Eight Dollars each,at
-L WILLIAM BLACKBURN'S Lottery
• cs and Brokers office, No. 64 South Second-ftjeet, f
where cheek books are kept for registering ind k ,
examination of Tickets in the above, City of
CB Waftingtctn and Patterfnn Lotteiies, &c. P u^'
STAt* OT TBI WfltlL, | DO!
Oneprlfcof 10,000 dollars 10,000
?! ve 4,OG#. 30,000 j "J
i WO , ' co ° 4.003! now
-T WO 1 « oco a.OOO
fen 500 i.coi!^ 11 -'
Twenty-ieven JO o J>4oo f ßre
With a full proportion of the one hundred '" C01
and of the fifty dollar prizes—The Lottery is | have
more than two thirds drawn and above 15,000 bene
10 dollars richer than at the commencement. I ln ter
0" Note, the buGnel's of a Broker duly at ''
tended to in all lu branches. tu.fr. 7 " ri
nov, 5- innat
" George Davis's t
LAW-BOOK STORE,
No. 319 Hick Stsxxt. tr i ce
Latest London & Irish Editions. to bi
EOKGE DAYIS'i Fall importation is now aRd f
VJ arranged of which a more «*pi(al collec- t rate<
tion he believes was never offered /or i'ale either ' t j t
:n this City, London or Dublin It combines °
almoH every book in,with several valuable books j ror ! ;
out of print. Davis's confining himfelf to the I whiic}
iale of Law-Boeks only, it will appear obvious fui
to profcflional Gentlemen, the advantages they dulcfe
from hkn lclc^ion and J ' ricc purchail.ig to the
His Catalogues being ready, gentlemen will f°" d
s P 3 "' J,ir, y oblige him by calling f or them—
and to those residing at a distance, by fovoring S rat «-
h.m with their address (poft-poid) they shall be t ' le ' 1:
lent - pared
1107 m&thjm has a
| Bank of the United States ofa g
i November ig, 1778. Coaiti
t . NO. T I C E, virtue
' STOCKHOLDERS of the Bank of the of the
1 ,h7 Cd^ tatCtareinformt - ,I . th ' , t according to to-the
the Statute of Incorporatir n„ a GeneralEleAion for genera
twenty-five Dtreaors will be held a, the Bank of !"
the United States, in the City of Philadelphia on °
7 th ° f January next, at too^ockin
U' he c i cv<nt5 ' fcAi °n "f the bye Jertini
noTified toafffmM ' 3id Bink are alf <>
notitied to aflemble in general meetinir at th» r, 1
fame place on Tuesday, the Bth of janua'ry next* i ?"
at 6 o clock in rbe evening. * a
C J-n G ' Sim P Ion > Cashier. . Gr^'
Second Fundamental Article. mili S
Nat more thin three fourths et in hv rS,
office, cxclufivc of the President stall he • •
"' U ri? T " r ' lul ,he Uifeflor
e „S
sovenaber 16 _ '.l r
m.tE themfe
1. ~ 1 the mi]
I HINTING V\ ORK e % the
Of Every '
EXECUTED SHURTEST Tk'
the OtTict Of the Gazette of the
United States, ' declani
Qift. 13.. which
.St. Do
sricu. - ,
i NEW-YORK.
is, !
lectins Frrn Jamaica Papers, to the 27tb OSoier,
Qfs C g received at the Office of
the fe- THE MERCANTILE ADVERTISER,
e elec-
enfu- KINSTON, Oflober22.
In confluence of'the ftatemenc publifh
:'ry. Ed in our Friday's paper, rcfpeiSing the ;
Cartel that foundered on her pa{Tage from
1 St. Domingo to this Island—we received
» the following on Sa urday :
Spamjh To wet, Otlober 19. 1798..
SIRS,
""no* Seeing in the paper of this day an imper- .
ie Ptin- detail of the loss of the fchoor.er fnduf
try, Capt Dumas. — I was on board that
. !w. reflel, and was conjointly with Mr. CallaJng- £
"" foix, bearer of difpatchep, undoubtedly ve- .
ry important, from (General Touflaint ! v
jntrjfl JL'Ouvertiiiefor lord Balcarf-es and Admiral *
lor sir Hydf Parker—and I take the liberty
lt } ( rL . C of fending you a det ill of that ttchapp- e
late of vent, wilhing to teftify -ny gratitude 10 all t
% ex- those who helped me on this unfortunate oc
ui and t afion. I beg you to insert it in your next
SK , 5
I am, &c. See.
or , MO^IGIN.
" Messrs. Mongin and Caftaingfoix left
(the Mole on the I ith of this month, in tiie |
Cartel fchoover Induliry, Capt. Dumasi to
carry letter, from General ToulTaint L'Ou- |
verture, commander in' clues of St. Dumin- |
to the governor and admiral, and had the j
tlons ' misfortune to be call away the 13th, at 8 he
o'clock in the morning, at about 24 miles j;
:e al- from the end of this ifland —After hav- w ]
those ' n S remained fix hours clinging to the bot- ol!
t each tom of the schooner, the canoe which had an
dimi- gone down with her, bjt w'uofe fader:ing
had been cut at the time of the carttllrophe- jm
by Mr. orders, came up again, to
and served, tl.ongh very small, to save these !
two gentlemen, the captain, ten of the crew,
' ' and a servant—they landed (after having ! it\-
[ rca . been 40 hours without eating or drinking) ; 4 jii
in the parilh of St. Mary, at the property : pul
)eht, sos John Scott, Efq who rendered every j
lated j service in his power—Messrs. Berrault, St. tur
'd in Maurice, and Thorigny, paffeugcrs, ia the hac
I Cartel, not being able to support the fa- wc:
lle'r- ! t,- S ue funk before the canoe appeared— can
nu j. j Mr. Mongin owes his life, it is said to his chi
esq. servant: The dilpatches of these two gen- ]
bus, tlemen and all their effefls were loft, being vils
dam in bed when this unhappy event happened, tlie
J they had scarcely time to get out ot the ea- nioi
w bin. Mr. Scott lent them clothes to pro- at t
ceed to Spanish Town, and his hon. the foil
lieut. governor being informed of their ar- did
rival, sent persons to visit them, and gave the and
molt preciie orders to the keeper of theCrofs Fre
Keys Tavern, that every attention and care, terv
con of which they stood so much in need of, asset
ter- should be tender.-d them. The care of his oft
j} 0 ' lordfhtp extend-d even to the crew of the was
v:e Cartel, wlio were lodged in the*fame tavern j coui
p at th? expencc of government. After this. ! ant l
we hope, that none of those saved, will fall
a Yiftim to the confeque:ices of this melan- w '>'<
choly tvtnt." 1 ' £
°J • - - taws
don
't and
■ry: PROCLAMATION. dien.
nd' - The . Gcneral of Bri b rade . Commandant H
of - & Chief of the forces of th.e French Re- w 'hk
1 public in the fouihern department of St. l )ron
1 Domingo. real 1
'oo | Citizens, the f
100 j This precious part of the Republic is Re P L
co: n .° W " ndcr the lavvs of tbe Republic.—
- us
00 1 tiire for mankind, that even those whom an C et "
ed inconceivable blindness, or falfeSpeculations, . tioa £
is; have for a trfoment been deprived of the ' nc^l ' r
00 benefit of Liberty mnft give way sooner or vvl
h'.ter.to its irreiiftible power, either by the
caprice of >,vents, or'by the awaking of that
innate inclination, which drags us towards rt 'P ul)
_ "this happiness. manit
The French Gtjverninent founded on a
true Philancrophy, aad not upon the fan- ,laT;: '
gutnary phretiay. and devastation (devatta- ticu,a
trice) with which prevtsrfe men, have dared Comr
to brand [couvn'rj a name so refpedablu ofthc
w ana sacred, the French government, pene- P at bc
-r ' !f at l d r y P^ i ! anlhro P ic principles wljichform Th
s I the bale »-f its knows to pity Er- P nve<J
cs ' ror ! and 10 appreciate the circuraft'ances P ub, ' c
ie j which forced a great many of tW French °^ tcn '
„I to submit for a time to a foreign yoke. Ib- rcvo!l1
y dulgent towards them, it is just with refoeft tion 0
g to the cultivators ; it holds innocent these lias ni!
([ good and hmple men, wnom ignoiance or humar
_ tear armed against their ofcn cause. ani con- ano
g S ratulate f kfrlf on feeing them enjoy to day " ls
e the happiness that has been long since pre- c
pared tor them. But the mere) which it a,ld a
has a right to exercise, and which coufti- j banks,
tutes the most beautiful of the prerogatives ! ,lie ra
sot a generous nation, stops itfelf 1 e f ore the takf '
Coait itution. throw
In the aame ot the French Republic, in cret i° r
T 1 " 6 °J thc P owcr s granted me, b.v Hhe assent cnfm ?
. 01 the Executive Diretftory, and.conformably he waa
, to J,e dtlpelition of the piock.nation of the »°nf|
general m chief, v/ith regard to the evacua- an{J
tion of the pom m the weft part of St- Do Coloov
mmgo, I proclaim amnesty, The
T lft '. To inhabitants of the town of the beg
fcCh ° f aU thC tluarter <* vates ?
never " P£ emi 8 ra M, Who have heart c
Ed iT T Fr of thc kin S Eng. clemen
land, and-who were tound on tlie ouarter of
Anfe on its evacuation. V ° f
mniS' a ?i°h a ' l the F u Cndl Wll ' 0 ' b:ln f? in the The
by thc S ne , , InC . ' l uarL;r invaded that' ne
in it. * a^e qont ' nu -d their service exceedt
3dl\v To all! the cultivator, t r ° CCU
'cultivate to be enlife ItT " & ° m t,on
themlelves; with the gitea eS^ P '
the military commanders^w""' rF
eft th» , . 1 tne towns near- The pi
ihemfclve -of are ' affure v Aims
rsstsr*""' and "• : m;rcra
L toblifcd »O—W- TiZ
«hich »l„Qd I!
St rtnrr.; „ t O' other quarters of phrase 1
.St. Doaimgo, who ia Grande Ai.ft, and ;L.
»
J who are not j ■
of the ar.uvfty, shall fu r^ Pßcifc "rms
the genera! of divii"' '' trani !«it thi £
ISER. l' ve Dlr ectory, who '<ha» nt n 0t tilC Execu
finitively oji their validity- pronoun ce de
. LUwaUia* VL ,
publish- tht ™«*«s 1 have taker, PPY effea of
»g the S°°d order and ful'cty 0 f a ']j I Cn ' u « the
ge from arc n °t compriftd in s i mon 'ft
•eceived gai . nft a " t!,e fears with which' * , anine %>
perfous would v.iffi
708.. . be affiduot s i„
is by It you will p re Je r y° Ur labor, J t »
imper- K f h * bring you oUrfeiv « that
fntluf- at " re \ nd ' ,lc French Republic name °f
d that f J | e J ed al! thole ini, nua Cl*V ,
aftafrie- t0 >' ou away f rom th ,' ch Would
I citizen. You have £££**•*.
lufLint >° l,r ri ß hts we have con^ red J> ht f or
admiral y ' rema 'ns for vou to n m for
liberty worth y of them ; " an d you win tbt y ° u
ion- I- } >OUr w,rd om,your aftivitv !, prove "
«o all uL" r ff ener °fity t 0 those of r ' and
ate oc- the T^ at l ™ f °» » W
' r ne " publi/ffi;' ha!lfce printed,
the other communes of
IN. Jeremie, the Bth Frutrld ' r
ix left ; M Uft] 6th >' ear <rftbe l-rercl w' h
in the pjbhc ' one and indivifir,!,. Ht "
las, to A. RIGAUD
lun.Mi- 1 fc;.Jtvan*pVr a * F ?^ B y 1 CAN ,
.18 ! °'V the I?th i I?9g
' 8 here from Jeremie with , k arrived
T dlf}t - re »t sexes and diff- re nt > pall " en S ers of
' av " wh o, on their landing "f T board >
ebot- out insult or reproach w'tfi
h had and office u£ Tuftce ' the Guird House
e::i "£ On the morrow their e<f a
rophe- and efcor t ed under
'ga'n, to the fame place fill? 3 fafe £ uard >
these ! wards theft pnfontrs ohferved to
c'ew» I that decree of W i" 8 * 1 ? t0 their
aving ! ityj due „
«»ff) >ml on the other, to the ffw *^ so L rtUne '
pei ty j public. set )' of the R,.
T! t , Thc ntTal in chief was abf««^
0 his children and cultivators. "" ' m W ° men »
ring : rV° thein e
e ca- moment ol lts most brdiiant triuShs 5
pro- .at the approach of a (table organizatmn t
the follow an enemy, to whom crinw
rar- d.d not even give the trouble of mZ
: the | and uho (hewed to the misfortunes of 2
,rofs French the fe:tfibi lit y of the Tyger " Het
rare terward, to thtm in so lively aid
of, the laws and the moras
h« of the Republic-thateverv F rfon prefcnt
the
vern ( courf, in beaching all to ebferve the law,
Lhw. and to be united ; as the price of tkir
tall do.i which he granted, and their enlargement
lan- which he ordered.
_ii sa id t°a» children : tht
■ just conccrninj/'enßgration
do not comprize yon; return to y<jtlr cares,
and give an example of gemlenefe and ob
uience.
n Qt i H ) C i/ JK ! t0 the .cultivators, t!ie amnefly
R e . which by t.ie authority cf the agenj; I have
St. pronounced in my proclamation ofaath Fio
u lV 0 "' return t0 the lab °rs of
the field, and be henceforth faithful to the
is *vepubl:c.
• ? Vh , at tb ,l n ls tf iis empire exercised among
na " US t I J am Ij ' ouv erture ?I s he an an
an G" Cf. from Heaven for the confola
ns, *ion and deliverance of the unhappy ? Peace,
;hc indulgence and love : theft are the traits
or by vh;eh he hasalwavs been known.
he |hf fwofds and iceptres are reduced to
lat dim, the thrones everv are n'o more, but, the
d& republic (hall be, and with"it *jtiftice, hu
manity and libertv.
11 'th regard to the other persons, they
liare been remanded for more ample and par
a- ticular information ; for thii purpose, the
e( j Commander in Ckicf and the Commissary
iU °f'he Executive Dtreftory to the Mumci
£. pat body, are to confer on the bufincfs.
m This delay isirkfome to any pcrlon de
;r. prived of liberty, but the itnereft of the Re»
ej public requires this measure. She ha? so
; h often been threatened with plots, and anti
revolutionary movements, thai the confidera
t,on of her fa set y and of her' pufet vatiou,
f e has made her throw awav these feelings of
)r humanity and fenffbilrty, which the feelings.
<>f another excite in feeling hearts.
( j r I he dediny of this great Isle ijconfider
ably changed.—Scarcely has a pacifying
h and a warlike agent put his foot on the
j. banks, haunted by all kinds of evils, but
;s the mistaken French, adjuring their mif
c takes and errors, flock from all fides to
throw themselves into his arms, to the dif
n cretion of his jufticc and his goodnefn ; the-
It enemy hastens to quit the positions of « hicli
y he was njaiUr, and an admir*de organiaa
e tion springs out of chaos and confufion*
L _ and spreads, through aft the veins of ths-
Colooy its'benign i 'ftueisre.
I lie Republic enlightens by its juftiee,
,f the beguiled world, by its compafiion capti
e vates the grateful French. It is in tbr
e heart of the free man, where the altar of
_ clemency is fixed.
Dublin Sept. 27-
e The atrocities perpetrating every night by
1 that nefarious villiaa, Holt, and his gang,
; exceeded every thing that can be fnppofed
to accur }n any country boailing of civihz?-
1 tion. There is rot one night for fomctiine
t pad, that has. not beeu marked by fucll out
; rages as would dilgrace even Che'.'okees.
• The poor peasantry are now become the
v ftims of those ferocious ard fanguinai)
■ mifcreanis. The night before last, si'«
poor men of this defcriptioo, on the ends
• of 1 enode, near Elf fii'gton, were plunder
ed of their little all, by a party of those
blood flained raparees, or, as the modern
phrafc ij for such marauders— United
! , m:n.%\)Z <3astttz.
' PHILADELPHIA,
8 ArtJRDAY EVENING, DECEMBk* ij.
i> m
'To-morrow there will be Charity
Sermons at C.hr'ijl Church and St. Peten,
for the poor of said Churches.
Extra't of a letter from Mr. Jefferfon, dat
ed Paris, July 31, 1788,—Taken from
the National Gazette, publilhed by Phi
lip Freneau, September 29, I 79 2,
" I fin.cerely rejoice at the acceptance of
out 1 new Conllitution, by nine States. It
it a good canvass, on which some strokes
only want retouching. What these are, I
think are fufficiently manifefted by the ge
neral voice from north to south, which CIII 3
for a Bill of Rights."
" A declaration that the Federal Govern
ment will never reftrhin the presses from
printing any thing they please, will not take
away the liability of ihe printers for falfe
fads priuted. The declaration that religi
ous faith fhallbc uapuni/hcd, does net give
impunity to criminal ails ditlatcd by religi
ous error."
Extra£l of another letter from the fame gen
tleman, dated Paris, Augull 28, to be
found in the fame paper.
" I must now fay a word on the dedlara
-tion of rights, which you have been so good
as to fend me. I like it as far as it goes ;
bu' I should have been for going further,
for inttai ce, the following alterations and
additions would have pleafcd me
" Art. 4. The people (hall not be depriv
ed or abridged of their rights to speak, to
write, or otherwise to publilh a'iy thing,
but falfe fads, affeSing injurieufly, the life,
liberty, property, or reputation of olheri, or
ajfeSing the peace of the confederacy •with so j
reign nations."
* Ift Quere. If scandal and malice being
added to falfhood, exempt a tranfadtion from
the leg.flative power of Congress, which, if
it were falfe alone, by the admiflion of Mr.
Jefferfon, would be fubjeft to that power ?
ad Q_uere. By what variation in princi
ples hasu«ome to pass, that a sense anti
cipated by Mr. Jefferfon, before the amend
ment concerning the freedom .of the prels,
and of religion ; and afterwards again with
that amendment before him, confirmed as
the true sense, when adopted by Congress,
is to be considered as unconflitutional by
that gentleman and his friends ?
90MMUNICATI0.NS.
MR. FENNO,
t LAST autumn in travelling through part
of Virginia I frequently entered into con
versation with gentlemen whom I occasional
ly mt?t at the public houses, on the fabjeft
ttie Alien Snd Sedition Laws, and particu
larly wlien from their dialect I di(covered
them to be foreigners. I generally observ
ed to them, lam sorry to hear you are so
greatly alarmed at the late alien law of the
' Uivioll /tla> med (was their invariable an
swer) no such thing, you are totally mist form
ed ; we are under no apprehenftm from its ope
ration—.We have truly much rcal'oll to com
plain of (late laws and state tribunals, but de
pend upon the faft, 'tis the Virginians atone
Wiit complain of the alien laws. Now Mr.
Printer, I desire that some of your wiseacres
will account for this enigma.
A STRANGER.
Only an Election Tkigk.
However unwilling the democratic faction
*nuy be to admit any circumstance that tends
to disclose the interested views of those whose
lips constantly dwell upon patriotism, whose
amor patria; centers infelf, it is no lei's a fact,
that on various occasions they are compelled
to hare recourlc to persons whom they can
not imitate, to support their characters as
they are ; i. e. they are necefiitated to bor
row the garb of virtue to conceal their own
vicious deformity. To this cause and not to
the united .fuffrages of his fellow-c'lizens,
are we to impute the fucceiiful termination
ot a late election in a county not fifty miles
from Philadelphia, in favor of « candidate
whose duplicity swerved many well inten
tior.cd persons from their determined purpose.
A few weeks the election, at a
t;me when the genius of Columbia had call
ed Opoa her ions to reiift oppreilion offered
from abroad, and to crufli a growing faction
at home——this.disciple of Gallatin, knowing
that a majority of the electors were with ad
mmiftratioli, even to their lives—artfully in
linuated that lie had just (then) returned from
an interview with the Prdidentof the Unit
ed States, at which he had tendered his fer
yice, to act in any rank he might be thought
deferring ot, and that his nam* was actually
placed on the records of the Secretary at War.
But fearing least this would not fully support
his prete . Sons to patriotism and not trading
to his ulual trumpeter, (a democratic magif
tl ate, ho, it I mistake not, is from the tur
bulent nation) he boldly declared that during
the American revolution, he was intruded
with u command andftation, which placed it
in his power, to have forever disconcerted our
measures, to have buried our brightest hopes I
in ererlaftlng night! Can it be, that he
whole wisdom and reiflitude were fuperior'to
evei , alTault of fortune—Can it be, that
Waftiingten the great, the good, would trust
an individual with the holding of a balance,
the nice ft turn of which would have decided
th • fate of America and pofteritv ? Sav, ve
e'der Sons of liberty—ye whose breads ne
vei- cherilhed one traitorous idea, can this be
io ?
But mark, th£ eleftion over and the can
didate having thus seated himfelt in a cliairof
State ; his friends fay it was on'y nn eleSkn
ricl—he Ins not seen the Prefideat, nor
would he take the trouble to alk anv thin
of hhn—'Aihapi.il'.> Utt&r a.Tertion may be
tour, Ito b.- as "ufidLisjs his friend* now
lay the lir:l is f .he.
But 011 examination it will be found that
lie has made application for a military em
ployment—Without prefunting to dictate, it
might not be aitlifi to searCh into the real mo
tives of a man whole political opinion has
long niii counter to- the wile measures ot
adminiftratiou—Whole individual opinion
may be proven to be unfriendly to the 1 icli
dent und theC'r.rr.nander in Chief—and whose
public confeiKon now declares, that he yet
retains in idea where and when he might (Ju
das like) have betrayed our country's favjour
.vfth a kiss. S.
so the FREEMEN of Philadelphia County.
Jkl low-Citizens,"
ON Friday next, the 21ft inftartt,.vou will
again be called to the exercite of a 1110 ft im
portant and intercfting privilege, for the pur- j
pose of choosing a perl'on to represent you
in the State Ijegitlature, in the room and
stead of John Hufton, El'q. who has resigned.
It is at all times highly essential, that you
should examine with candour and patriotism
the qualification* of those men who solicit
your fulTrages'for stations of trust and re
iponiibility :—at prcfent, however, when the
honor and prosperity of our common country
are at stake, it is peculiarly
you, as free and enlightened citizens, tS~tfi{-
criminate, with jealous circufllfpe&ion, the
pretended from the real friends of the go
vernment. On a fubjec! of such imineni'e
moment, then, I trust you will listen to me
with serious and profitable attention.
The active enemies of the Federal govern
ment. who leave no effort of opposition un
tried however often foiled, are determined, 1
at the ensuing special election, to support,
with their votes, the difgraccd and Contempti
ble Gk.okge Logan ; a man whose recent
conduct you are all convinced delerved, as it
has received, the unqualified censure of every
honest American; and who, by a long series
of Opposition to government, has proved his
inveteracy to all legitimate authority. Citi-
Izens of Pennfylvtmia, you live in the cen
tre 01 political information—you cannot be
ignorant of the unwarrantable and prefump
tuoas interference of this man—you cannot
view, but with indignation and .contempt','
this feeble infect crawling frorn nothing
ness, and aspiring to .the confidence of his
country, without a particle of merit, or a
, single aft of lervice to recommend him—
Your known discernment, yaur active patri
otism, your love of public virtue, your re
spect for the laws, all conspire to render him
del'erved''y odious in your estimation.
Even had this man, in the assumption of
a diplomatic character, effected an aftual re
conciliation, 1 the unwarrantablenefs of his
authority, the arrogance of the undertaking,
would delerve your severest reprobation ;
and the terms of pacification, however favor
able, coming through that dirty and illegal
channel, would be rejefted by a people free
and independent—France having no right
to prescribe the qualifications of our minis
ters, we would concede it. to her* if-we ap
peartJtHeTeaft thankful for the exertioire bf
this importer. Biifc he has done nothing to
wards a reconciliation, even if we were incli
ned to avail ou'rfelves of his euibaffy .He
has visited France apd returned—the fame
has been done with as much effedt, by many
of our captains of vefiels and seamen.
Under these considerations, fellow-citi
zens, how does your own reflettion impell
you to aft ? To elect him, will he to func
tion his infamous presumption—it will be a
stain on our state—a reproach to the general
government of the United States, and a
temptation to others to follow his footfteps.
Ixrt nie conjure you, then, as you love A
der, as you love freedom and independence
as you esteem the present happy government,
resist with unanimity and spirit, the unreal
pretentions of this candidate for your fuffra
ges—l recommend to you, Benjamin
Chew, jr. a gentleman, in every refpeA ca
pable of representing you with ' justice and
credit. Jm
4 Fellow-Citizen.
December 15.
A FACT.
One of the M-Leans, wlio a few months
ago rendered himfelf conspicuous in Canada
by his jacobinical conduit, has made his
escape to one of those western counties of
Pennsylvania long since famous for harbour
ing Disturbers of public Tranquility.
s.
EVERY editor of a news-paper accompa
nies his proposals to publilk it, with a pro
mise to be impartial. This was ut firft un
derftoodto imply " being open to all parties."
The public were however early denied a lat
itude so great as this. Impartiality is not
violated, it is now conceived, if fafts are
justly.stated, and no necessary information
withheld, though admission Ihould be refuted
to all political sentiments opposed to those
which the editor may efpoufe—Confide ed
even in this reftridted sense, how many breach
es ot impartiality appear ; Claypoole's paper
of yefterdiy exhibits a glaring instance of
thii. Let any one turn to it, who was pre
sent at the debate on the resolution for print
ing and distributing copies of the Alien and
Sedition laws, and read that debate as.given
bv hijn, and he will be struck with the justness
of this charge. The speech of Mr. Gallatin
detailed in the fulled manner ancj fecms to
have greater force than it reallypoffeffed from
being refined in print. While th- renly
made by Mr.Harper, which difphyed prom'ct
nefs ot wit, fertility of genius, and corrc'ft
neU ot judgment, is curtailed and mutila-ed
so that it jxtlTelfes non? of the manly feature s
which produced sprobation and deli.ht in
thole who heard it. 0
Friday, Dec. 14, ,
Extrafi from a Coup d'onl over the f.tnatior, ,
of Europe, contained inihe Speftateur 1
uu Word, a German periodical work, for 1
the month of August 1798. ,
It w.Sjiii the plan« of the Di'reftory that ' (
ijc Am« f arc should pay also their tribute ; ;
e but titanic* to their fagacitv, and above alt
f to their si nation, they have hitherto known
how to difappnint these calculations; they
■t have even b«*en able to obtai'i words of
fwctnefs and of iu place of that
t imperious and menacing language, which,
'• a few months since, the Directory lield to
s wards them. You have fern the lingular
'f correspondence of the miniiter of foieign
n relations, wiih the envoy of America, who
- remained at Paris after the departure of his
e col eagurs. Ten have admired the able and
I honest politics of that miiiiltir who, being
■ unwilling to admit the Envoys inverted with
r a charafter and furnifhed with ample pow
ers, obstinately perfift*in recogniiing those
powers and that character in an Envoy who
no longer ack"owledget them himfelf.
You will have admired that delicate and
II scrupulous policy, which nQk loader wishes
i- Mr. Gerry to return to thepreliminary mea
- Jure of a loan, the idea of which never en
u tered into the pure views of the Directory.
You will have admired the frank and simple
I- policy of citizen Talleyrand, who wishes to
u negociate with all his might, when there
n are no longer negociators ; who speaks of
the alienation of the Dire£tory, when for
'* three years the Dire&ory has abused the a
:C lienation of the Americans; who wishes,
y in fine, to use all mcsnt of avoiding a rup
-11 ture, and of preserving peace, when France
l " for five years has made war upon America.
- It would be difficult, fayß Mr. Gerry in his
'* letter to the minister, in find in the hiffori of
■ c civilized nations, any examples approaching in
' e cruelty to the depredationr, the outrages, and ■'
the sanguinary atrocities, exircfed by the
l " Fraffy upon the commerce and the citizens of
the ak&pd States. It is after such a war,
> that they insult the patience of the Ameri
cans, by reproaching them with their alien,
ation, and to whom they presume they have
rendeied ample jullice, by publifiiing a tar
:t dy anvte against these cruel and plundering
v corfqirs, of whom they have lo long com
-15 plained.
The vigorous measures taken by the U
nited States, will, \ .thout doubt, contri
bute more to the protedtion of their com-
J ' : merce, than the phrases of citizen Talley
rand and the atrete of the Directory. But
' L both these last have only labored in their
M vocation, while endeavoring to disarm those
■ ' -enemies they could not debauch ; while la
boring to avoid a war which may hurt, and
which cannot enrich them ; wile seeking
~ to heap on the Americans, all the odium
of a rupture; and to fortify amongst them
the disorganizing party which menaces their
11 repose.
You may qualify as you please the con
dud of the Direftory towards the t United
• States. It will- be eaSly judged of by all
sensible men, afld I perceive that it has been
'] appreciated jaftly -by even those who mod
' faror the principles of the Trench govern*
il ment>
, c At London, the mod popular Journals
lt of the opposition, are, lome of them merty
C with-the virtues of the—diredoiy, other*
3 loud in reprobation,of x\vibafenefs and cor
j rtsptioti ofttiaf goVternmettt. Thev affo give
into suspicions o>f- the honesty of tlie mioif
ter Talleyrand,, and-they arc"fcandilized at
[,. this Republican adopter -ofthe duplicity of the
jg ancient court. On the whole, I find that
1V the friends of democracy, the few remain,
ing men of truth and decency amongfl them
recover a little from their enthufiafcn for the
U French Revolutionize™, Wke greatejl enemies
c . of the real liberty and independence of nations *
a If fuck be th- language of those friends of
liberty the leaf! fu pedted of demagogy, in
a England, where as yet they have not known
, s . French liberty but by others' experience ;
ir- whrtt think, mufl be the thoughts of the
_ friends of real libe ty in Holland, in Italy,
t, in Switzerland, and in America.
a ' * See Morn. Chrois. and Morn. Her.
a " " Nothing, indeed, can be more base than these
!) men," fays the former of July 25, in speak
ing oi the dirc3ort —Morn. Chron. July 26.
* Extrad of a letter from Lt/bon, dated October
20 th, 1798.
" The Emperor of Rufiia has sent 60,000
men to the afliftanee of Aultria a,>ain(l
is France— 30,000 have already arrived ituhe
Tyrol, and the remainder ar* on their
.' march.
mand of General Stuart, consisting of 8000
men, arc soon to fail fy-om hence and Gibral
tar, supposed for the Mediterranean."
Yesterday morning, Lieut. Gen. WASH
ING FON left this city, on his journey to
J ~ Mount Vernon, Virginia. The General
~ Wis acompanied by hit. Sscretary, Col.
Lear.
t
re Yesterday in the Houfeof Representatives
of this State, the committee appointed, re
' ported the from of a refpeaful address to
the President of the United States, which
was made the order for Thursday next
■r THc . Bng Mana ' Shecrer - f'om Charles-
j f ton tpVii* port, was wrecked on the night
of Sunday last; near Indian siver, and fix
passengers unfortunately perished. We have
j not able to learn the names of the paf
n fengers, or farther particular*.
n French AccOuifi
0 Of an engagement, between the Mediterranean
11 , fleets.
Y " On board Le Guillaume Tell,
" Malta, Augaft 28.
"The English attacked us in the ancho
-1 rage of Btquieres, on the iS of August a
s bout fix in the evening ; and of thirteen
1 (hips and four frigates, which composed our
force, 11 Qiips & 2 frigates,have remained on
the scene of action. But had it not been for
the blowing up ofthe L'Orient, our bravery
1 compenfatinij our deficiency in number* and
r tactics, would have been fufficient to find
r the Enghfh along with ourselves, in one com
mon overthrow. The enemv have only fix 1
: 1 /hips remaining in a fervicable condition. I !
; a£Ture you that nevtrhas there been a more
1 dreadful combat. We wtre within lets
1 than piflo! shot of each otfter.
f " Our fleet cwfilled of 13 ships, which
f were moored in a lint, at the diilan e of
t two thirds of a cable from each other, i.i
, the Roadi of We had no can
- ceprion that we fliould be attacked on the
r land fide, confideringthe small space between
1 us and the banks along the shore j but the
3 Enplilh shot in this dire£tion in so
s masterly a manner, that only their firft (hip
1 touched the ground ; and the reft pafled in
I two lines on the (larboard and larboard fides
» of our heaamoft velfcls. Our line was thns
between two fires from thevan to the L'Ori
t ent, which was in the centre.
» " The superb ship L'Oiient took fire at
ten o'clock. She was attacked fa^clofely,
d that it was the wadding ofthe English (hip*
s which set her ®n fire , and the sailors fought
1- each other with their rammer*. It was im
- pnfiible to extinguish the flame*. It wa* a
terrible, but melancholy fpeftacle to fee this
e vefTel fighting to the last extremity, though
0 with the certain profped of deftrudkion^—
e About midnight (he blew up. Oar veflel*
f were then thrown into dilorier—every one
r cat their cables to escape the wreck.
1-
' c dsasette Marine JLitt.
; s Port of Philadelphia.
>f ARRIVED,
" Snow William, Quandrille, Li(bon 56
d: Schr. Sally, Gage, Bolton, 10
,e Sloop President, Bracket, New York, lo
/ CLEARED,
[> Ship Superior, Conyngham, Havanna
i- Mary Ann, Stewart, St. Croix
'■ Farmer, M'Collom, La Guira
e Amiable, Tillinghaft, Lordon
r - Brig Pomona, Morton, Havanna
g Hannah, Norri->, Portugal
>- Sophia. Geddes, Algiers
Polly, Charnock, Rotterdam
[- 1 Schr. Fred. Packet, Bender, Gibralter
• Induttry, Monk, St. Thomas
'• Betsy Hollon, Caflbn, Surinam
Tabitha, Tabor, Trinad.td
|t Dauphine, Ripley, Havanna
ir President, Pearfon, Fredericklburgh
Duly Ann, M'Njmara, do
'• Betsy, Matey, Nantucket
d Maria, Rice, Norfolk
g Sloop Friendflup, Brown, New Orleans
n Nancy, Freeman, New-York
Several outward bound veflels failed ye
ir fterday morning, the navigation being per
feflly free from ice.
1- The snow William, Quandrille, in 36 ;
d days from Lisbon, has arrived at the Fort.
II Sailed from Lisbon the 26th Oftobc, and
" left the brig Adventure, Smith, to fail next ;
ft day for Bolton, and the btig Betfey,juft ar
>• rived r in 50 days from Charleston.
Capt. Quandrille informs, that the snow j
Is William, capt. Lord, failed from Lisbon, '
y several days before him, and that it was re
rs ported there (he had been captured by a
r- French privateer.
'e Sixty fail of outward bound veflels left
f- Reedy Illand yesterday morning—The Fri
it gate United States left there last evening,
be and the Dslawere lloop of war, with about
it 30 outward bound, remained at the ifland—
1. The Gangsii is in the bite of New-CaPJe.
m A snip below, fttppofed to be the Alia,
le Morgan, from IRatavia loft her rudder 011
es Tuesday last, on Chincoteague and on Thurf
* diy an anchor and ca'ole on th# Hen aud
if Chickens—Another (hip supposed to be the
in Charles, Salter, had thrown her guns over
pn board in a gale.
5 ——wn mi «i «*
yr t Jusi Publijlied
BY THOMAS DOBSON,
r At the Stone-house, no. 4i,toi:th becond-ftrect,
r" Phil\oelpiiia,
1 ENCTCLOP JED lA :
r ~- OK, A
DICTIONARY
„ r OF
ART Sand SCIENCES,
,o ' ANB
MHCELLANE(JU3 I I rKRATU.IE,
On a tlan entirely N&tr.
'. e Br WHICH
ir THE DIFFEftEN r 4CII N JES AND ARTS
Are digest.'d into the Form of Diftindl
1 TREATISES OR SYSTEMS :
10 COMPREHENDING
1- THE Hiltory, Theory, and PrtAice, of ea h,
Bvcording to the bteft dif.-o»cri*i and i nprove
ment»: and full exolar.ati'-nvgivcn ofthe Various
r Detailed Parti »f Knoivlc-.lgc, whether relating to
natural and artificial oNjedts, «.r to matters ecclefi
;o aftical, civil, military, commercial, &c. Includ
al ing elucidation of the mod important topic, rela-
L. tive to rtligion, morals, niann rs, and the cerono- '
my of lite: together »i:h a description of all the
countries, cities, principal mountains, leas, riven
&c.througho«t the « orlil j a general hiilory, an
cirnt and mtitrn, of the different empires, lting
e- dnms and ftatcs; and an aci oant of th« lives of
0 the moll eminent jjerfons in evsry nation, from
J, the ear ieft ages down to the prtfent times. Com
piled from the vvritinjs of the heft authors, in se
veral language- ; the mod approved diift-'onaries, !
as well of general science asot particular branch- j
fes ; the tranfailions, joum*!*, and memoirs, of
it learned focietin; thg MS, Itelures of eminent pro- I
x felTnr» 011 different ciencts ; and a variety of ori- ■
ginaj materials, furniftcd by «n extensive corre- ;
fpoßdencc.
I- The work is no* completed in eighteen large
quarto volumes, illuf! rated with five hundred and
forty-two copperplates.
The few copies which remain on hand are of
fered forfale at
n 135 dollars for the 18 volumes in boards
Iftl dollars neatly bounJ in (heep leather
1 180 dollars handi'om -lv bound in Calf
' 20; dollars in Ruflia or Morocco.
T. DOBSON,
HA* JUST OPENED A
SUBSCRIPTION,
For Publishing a Supplement to the Work
The obje<3 of which i< to correal such mis-state
ments as have been found in the Work, and togive
an account of the mofl important discoveries and
1 improvements which have been made for the lafl
1 ten years.
It is expeifled this funplem.nt will confia of
three volumes, on fudi paper and type as the En
cyclopedia, at Si* DolUr* per in boariU. ,
Six Dollanof which to be puii 03 fu'jfcribing,
, dee 15 }aw£w
* *
, Q; .tjd STAT**, ") /p
Vernlylvinia j " ' ' t
NOi'JCE j» her«by jiveu that in puduuncAo r »
writ to nic directed, from the Hoirnbl*
' li>C"!AKi) Prrrts, Esq. Judge o' llu DiitriA
i Curt of the U li'eM States in anj for the lYm«
. fylva'i;a DiftriS, will be eipufed to puhlc sale
at No. t-f 7 in Saflktr** itrecto'i Monday tiu»4iil
d.iy of Dc:«mbcr inftanc. at 12 o'clock at uoon,
' 2 Hogfiieads arid
, * 2 BarreL of Spirits.
, Tlx* fame having been libtlicii as linit, profveuted
and condemn?*! a* lo* feud in ♦he fa id Court.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Marfljal.
s Mirflia's Office, Dec. 15th, 1798.
THE BROKERS SOCIETY,
MEET this afternoon at the Goldsn Swan
' in Third-ftie-t, at thre~ o'clock. Tholr
' gentleman that have received Cards of ad
-8 million will pLafe to bepui&uali.n th.ir at
t tendance,
dec r 5
AUOy 1 nine o'clock IjU evening, a whticm.u
came into my (lore, and requelied me to ad
vance him a fc. w dollart. on a CandUftick which
appears to be filvcr. Presuming he hail not got '
it honestly. I asked him from whom he received it,
and at the fame time cailed fir affi'.lance, intending
to secure him, hit h: dire illy made Jus efca e
Any person who ca- prove it to be their property,
naay have it on paying for this advertisement, to
THOMAS BROWN,
Corner Stimp-v's ale , N-«v-Market.
* j Dec. r<. <f.it
. TO tIE LET,
ANK \T, convenient two-!tory frame HOUSE
and BaKE-HOUSE, fituatcd in sou h Fnurth
g ftteet,below German llrcct— Thehoufe it incom
plete ori cr, having two rojnia on a floor, with a
0 spacious garret; tt>e lot is 19 1-1 le-t front uu
0 Fourth Arret, and til 11 feet dcip.
Apply to
a CHRISTIAN BETZ,
x no 1 jj, Mulberry liner.
N B the property b-li i g. to oryhan chil-.
J 4r<n, it 4»cxpe<£tcd thatjjood fecuriy willbugiv. a
n tor the rent.
a PhiUrlclpM*. it, 1798 ftaw^sr
»1 ALL PERSONS,
'* XJAVINO i.aii.is aj;ainft the Fstat« O?
n I US WA'A AH I.OCKFh R, deeafed; are
T r equc!ted t present their refpe&ive accounts t j
„ NATHAN A. SM/TH.I „ 0 .
d JOHN DORSET, j .
(I A LEASE OF THE HOUSE
Lately occupied b\ Suf nnah Locltver, t^frether
•with THE STOCK OF GOODS,
, Are to be dilpofcd of Time wili be given sot
the latter on un-txcept:unable feeurity.'
3 '' ov 9 3 aw6w
.. Forty Dollars Reward,
LOST on Thursday lad the 6tn Tndaqt.
in Market Street,betweeu 511 & 7th fltreeisj
6 a Red Marocco pocket Book, containing fix
t> Bank Notes for Ffty Dollars each, and Cnall
d Notes for one Hundred and Ten'' D -liars
[t ; also sundry receipts and Papers of no use
r . but to the owner—the about reward will be
given to any" Person, who delivers the fame
w to Messrs. Isaac and Luke Morris, Brwers,
i, No 4 Pear street, or to the Subscriber in
._ Lancaster County.
a ISAAC CAFFMAN.
December 13. f.m.&th3t
FOR SALE7~
r, Fifty Acres of Good Land,
it Lying in Gloucester County,
State of he AT. 7'rfey,
Twenty-four acres of whichat«
Woodland, the reft, Meadow. This
11 land Ties about half a mile from Tisnber-Cre*k,
f. and two miles from the river Delaware, the
<1 county road*pafling throngh it, and the freaC
road only two miles Hiftant. For terms, appl/
to, PATKIC* DOGHEKTY,
Sign of the Rainbow, in Sb'ippcn,
beivjeen Second and Third jl recti*
gc 4 f tiirh&rivr
ADVER 11SEMEN 1.
Todd & Mott.
Of the City of Philadelphia, Merchants, having
adigned over their effe&s, r«al, ptfl'onal, and
mired, to the fuMcribcrs for the beuefit of all
their Creditors—
Notice is hereby Given,
all person* who are indebted to the said
1 efiate, that they are required to make im
mediate payment of tbeir rclpeaiyj accounts to
either of the aflignecs, in faiiure whereof legal
raeafures will ' m : taken for th -recovery of such
debt, asare not difchaig-d without delay.
John JVaddington ~l
John Rhodes L Affignecs. '
: John Allen. j
k . tu.th&fatFt
ALL PERSONS,
" TTAVING demands ai»ainlt the Estate of
° Henry Schafm r, deceased, late6fthe
i- City of Philadelphia, Malftec ant! Shopkeeper
are requelied tojurnilh their accounts propeilj.
»- nii'henticated and all persons indebted to said
Ellate are desired to make fpeerfy payment to
,e c.Tspak h'. haixas, j .
'* FREDERICK GAUL, j a * m "»Jt™tort* _
nth rro.
Dancing School.
WILLI AM M'DOUOALL prefenti his res.
pcitful compliments to (he public i takes
j the liberty of informing than, that at the requelk
,f ; of mar.y of his former employer., he will 0 ; e:i
; hi» School, at his Ball Room, in Fourth, bet
i. ! ween Ciefnutand Waluuc street", on the firll Mon
.. | diy of December—For Young Ladies at ten
I o'clock in the morning—and for Gentlemen, at
, e | fix; in tke evenings of Mondays, Wednefjay,'aud
Fridays.
nuv. 28 porm
To be Sold,
OR EXCHANGED,
For property in the Citv, or within Thirty
milts of it,
A Valuable Plantation,
TN Tufcorara Valley, MifHin county, coctainintr
! i ab«ut three hundred acres, the whole capable
•of cultivation. At present there is about jo acres
cleared, 10 of which is a rich bottom of Meadow
Ground, enriched by a never failing ft ream, thae
haslall and water enough for all (he purpofe< of
■ rJ Co "" tr y M| U. For further ialormation apply at
• No. 68, Market flreet.
; November to W(r
Genteel Boarding iff Lodvirz.
QtPAR\TE and ready furniftied aoin.i.mt,
tJ wr.h genteel B.^.din K and 1.-xfairg f)rtle»e
com3)oc a atija ot tcyr Gci tlcmco (wi h their Ladir
if rcjutrcd) may be l.*d ai No. 4 th Slrc#
. oec '»• tafi.SHOEMAKER csf BERRETT,
HATs RIMOVhD THEIR
INSURANCE OFFICE
to No. 9, south Front street.
I heir rr on i at the Coffee-houfe will continue to
Oe if tended froai lz till i o'clock in the day, and
from 6 to 8 o'clock in the evening.
JACOB SHOEMAKER,
Has also removed his Counting-house to the
fame place, where he has for sale a few pipes choice
London Paaticular Madeira Wire ; Frcneh and
spanilh Brandy ; Claret to calks and cases, of fu- .
perior quality, and a few Packages Glass and
Queen's-ware ; also, a quantity ef Carolina Soal
leather, which will be fold very low to clofc the
sales.
_Philadelphia, i» mo. it, I7qß. 5
THE~CARGO, '
Of the Ship INDIA,
Captain Ashmkad, from BATAVIA,
Consisting of
JAVA COFFEE,
Of the First Quality—to be Sold, by
MORDECrtI LEWIS.
dec II d 2w
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
14 four pound Cannon, different lengths,
5 Carronades. t
JOHN NIXON & CO. I
December 1. $ j:
- ro HEYoIvT. ! ®
A quantity of choice 1 imotby Is" Clover j
H A Y. i
Enquire of the Printer. f*
dfceember 7 d6t 11
For sale by the Subscribers,
The Cargo of the- Schooner
Sincerity, from LAGUIRA,
150 feroons of cotton j r<
40 do. of indigo j
522 fanegas of cocoa
20,56 hides J. 1
4 bundles of gum ?
38 barrets } COFFEE
I bale of Deer skins ™
Willings & Francis. tr
decemhei 10, 1798 dtf •
'1 lie Subicribers ej
Have received by the late European arrivals, the in
Following Merchandize, c -j
Shipped them principally on consignment, which
rhry oft'er by package to Wholesale Stpre Keepers,
«>r others, on very advantageous terms, for cash,
notes, or bills of exchange on London.
Medford & Willis,
No. 78, North Front Street.
IRISH LINENS.
Printed calicoes, furnitures, purple and colored
shawls
Mufiins, plain, striped, checked and fancy
1 Balalore, jaconet and book handkerchiefs
Pins and lundry haberdafliery
Scotch and colored threads
Scarlet cloth cardlnala f
Durants and
Worsted, cotton and fancy hosiery
I'elt, castor and beaver hats
Yorklhire plains and broadcloths L
Plain and twilled coatings andduffills X
Caflimeres and fwanfdowns
Stripe, point and role blankets
White colored and Wel(h flannels
Knapt Kendall cottons
Worlled and mohair plushes
Pewter, aflorted in small calks | n '
Spades, (hovels, frying pans & ironmongery
An invoice of Watches &
100 calks nails aflorted, l ro
n<rv i» I go
TaE tAßrNEkitilP OF
Alexr. J. Miller, S^Co.
BEING dissolved on the firft inflant, by the
death of James Davis, all persons indebted
to the fame art requested to fettle with the sub- '"f
fcriber, and thofeto whom they are indebted are
requested to call on him for payment.
ALEXR. J. MILLER, fur
No. 64, South Front Jlreet.
* fer
Who has on hand,
to ie Disrotir.o or cm low tkrms, 1
By the Package or Piece. Yo
Fine plain and tamboured Muflinfc No
Guzzennas 1
Baftas No
CofTaesl 1
Rabobgungies
India Callicoes
Bonk Muslins
Coloured ditto *
Heal & Mock Madras & pullicat hkfs. (bei
Brown Silefias nan
Tickings, C~jc. Qc. No
for'
JUST ARRIVED, C . Ol
AN ASSORTMENT OF
irish Linens Ruflia Sheetings. re r "
nov zt 4 Bar
FRESH FRUITS. ~
This dify, will he landed at Hamilton's
wharf, from on board the brig Eliza,
captain Vaughan, •
MALAGA FRUITS, I
Of the best quality, consisting of
Sun Raisins in kegs, > j
Muscatel and Bloome do. in boxes, ; c j- s
l'igg» in ktgs and boxes, ord
Soft (helled Almonds in sacks, 'rate
Jordan do. in boxes, but
Lemons in chells, J 3e,jl
Anchovies in kegs,
Pruens in boxes, p
A few jars Grapes, See. &c. ma l
Also on band, Nei
Holland Geßeva in pipes, Fro
Sherry Wine in quarter calks,
French and Spanilh Brandy in pipes and
butts. f
Best Olive Oil in boxes of 12 bottles. V'
For Sale by PETER KUHN, jf"
No. 179, N. Market Street. j nc |
December 6. diot Joh
GOOD WAGES Ji
WILL bi j-MVin to a servant Man, who
can bring a good recommendation, awl will
a v.ily lit No. rti Waltiut-ftrect. {J
... ' 4 dtf S
■f and
< Wants a Place,
A WOMAN with a good Bread of Milk,
Enquire at No. 58 South Front ilrc«, , r .„
Dec. to- N
Now Landing,
I s From on board the (hip John Btilke'ey, and j
for sale at thf (lores of Jefle & Robert !
' Wain,
}jo,oco weight of Java Coffee,
of the frcft quality in bags.
to 150,000 weight of Java Sugar,
, and in canniflers.
Nov. 23 rf'f
All persons
Indebted to th« Eft ate of Mr. John FENNo,late
r) the 0 r Philadelphia, deceafed,are desired to make pay
hoice ment, and those having any demands, to present
them for settlement, to
,f fu * SAMUEL BLODGET, Adm'r.
< a ",
!>0 * 1 " JOHN WARD FENNO, Agent
c to the administration.
nov. ?6 j^m
'5 "
Lancafler County Butter,
IN KEGS,—FOR SALE,
Enquire at No. 92, Market-flreet,
near Third-Street.
dec I £
WOODBURY ACADEMY.
THE Trustees of the Woodbury Academy,
tija in the c ninty (if Gloucester, New-Jersey,
' have the latista<slion to inform the numerous
j patrons ot that institution, that they have en
• i S'gcd the Reverend 7homas Piston, to be :he
principal, and to take upon himfelf th® charge
1 of the abavefeminaryof learning, and that the
j school will be opened on Monday the tenth inft.
er I Among the exercifss taught here, will be the
Engli/h, Latin and Greek languages, gramati
cally.—Reading, Uniting and Arithmetic in all
'ts branches; Stenography, Geometry, Geogra
and the use of the Globes, Navigation, Sur
| ""<yi"g i CSV
ier This Institution was formerly under the care
, and direflion of the Reverend Andrew Hunter,
i and the fame attention to the education and mo
I rals of the youth, which under him so highly
i diftinguiflied il, will be pursued wiih unremit
ting endeavors, by the present principal and du
ly attended to by the trustees.
The town of Woodßury is filiated on an high
an i elevated spot : It is airy, pleasant, and re
markably healthy, and is but nine miles distant
from the City of Philadelphia J
Parent?, guardians and others, who are dif
— posed to feritf their youth to this place, will find
exceeding good, decent and comfortable board q
the ' n £ anc ' ' B( 'P n S' an d upon reasonable terms.
_ Furiher applicatiun may be made to the prin
cipal, or
John Sparks
jO,' Thomas Hendry
on. Franklin Davenport
jojhua L. Howell
•et. J°l> n Blacizu/od I
Jfhn Lawrence
- c j Thomas Hcjlon J
ELiSHA CLARK,
Secretary of the Board.
Woedbury, Dec 3 diot
Ephraim Clark,
CLOCK WATCH MAKER,,
Corner of Front and Market streets, Philadelphia,
HAS JUST RECEIVED,
BY the different arrivals, a large supply of Clock
and Watch makers and Silver Smiths Tools,
files and materials, 4
consisting or
RowHng Mills, large and small Bench and Hand
Vices, Turnbenches. Plyers, Sliding Tongs, Bra
ces and Birrs, Grooving tools, Sawe,Scratch brefh
ef, Blow pipes, Screw and Draw plates,large and
small Hammers, Clock dials, cad brass Bells, for
ged wsrlc and pinions, Emery, Pu
mice (lone, Borax, Spelter Sorder, Brass, Steel and
Iron wire, sheet Brass, niain springs and glatles
_ K°'d, gilt, and ftcel chains, fcals and keys, &c. &c.
(CJ* Clocks and Watches carefully repaired
WOV- tl e^Hrf
Notice is hereby Given,
b- ' I "HAT application will be made at the Trea
,e X fury of the United States for the renewal
of the following certificates of Six per CentSi
funded debt—(landing in the name of Robert an
Wilson of Calcutta in Bengal, Surgeon in the
service of ths honorable United Company of
merchants of England trading to the East-In
dies, which were loft from on board the Swal
low-Packet, capt Kidd, from Falmouth to New "
York. Dolls. Cts.
No 10,444, Keg. office 14th Dec. (
1793, one certificate for 33 f
No 10,478, Reg olfice 17th Dec. utj
1703> one certificate for rgj9 50
Ellijion & Jahn Perot.
nov 13 eod6w An
' Whereas the certificate of two
(bares of the Bank of the United States in the
name ot Samuel Amory, of London, banker,
No. 3181, :(Tued in lieu of 11593, 11594, were
forwarded from London by the Britilh packet j
CoonteA,, of Leicester, capt. Dodd, bound for
New York, which packet was captured by the
French, and the fattl certificate loft; and for the ,
'• renewal of which, application is made at said f
Bank, and all persons concerned are desired to ~
- take notice. ca "
CLEMENT BIDDLE. Ju ?
>, Phila. OA. 1-6, 1798. eo6w a " d
Patent Ploughs, and
TO be fold for cash by Jofepli Salter at Atfion P't
X Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry—Jonathan P re l
Harker., Woodbury—and Jefle Evans, Lumber- Obj
ton, Those who have used them give them the
preference to any other kind, as they require 3
less team, break the ground better, are kept in "IT
at less expence and are fold at a cheaper To
'rate—the plan is much Amplified and consists of Dl
but one piece of- cast iron, with the handles and A
beam of wood ; they may belixed with wrought pfea
lays and coulters to be put on with screws and sou "
taken off at pleasure
Patent rights for fending with inftruaions for h °
making them may be had by applying to John
Newbold, or the fubferiber No. 21a North
Front-fireet.
Who has for Sale;
d Or to Lease for a term of tears,
A number of valuable trafls of Land, well
situated fer Mills, Iron iVorks or Fjrms, most- ' *
ly improved, lying chiefly in the county of Hun
tingdon (late of Pcnnfylvania. Those who may d<
incline to view them will please to apply to
Johs Canan esq. near Huntingdon.
Charles Newbold. A
iuly «? 2awtf
D in tl
1 Horses to Winter. ,lere
HORSI.S will be taken in to winter at P«o- h
spict Hill, at the i» Milestone, on the
Bnftol road ; they will l e wc n fed with doyci . ret s"
" and timothy hay, well littered and cleaned and
v. ill also have a large fiel i to exercise themselves
\. fcen the weather is -ood—Enquire of Mr
' Wilr,am BtH, merchant, Watet flreet, or on the
» I remixes,
' Nov " 7 wf tf d<
FOR SALE,
, and B J ihc Subfcribcrs
ibert 200 Bolts RuHia Duck,
50 pipes London pai tit ular bill Madeira Wine
C ep 1 pair nine-pound Cannon
' A )'e«' Baits Madras Handkerchiefs
40oolbs Fine Flota Indigo
r, 13 Barrels Beef.
JVillines fa" Francis.
Penn-llrcet, )
Novrmbtr 28 j §
> late Prime Sugars,
pay- 0
Will be landed from the Enterprize, captain
'r. Langdon, lying at Mcrris' wharf,
Forty one hogsheads of
•^ nt Jamaica Sugars, of the firft qual
m ity (entitled to drawback)
For sale by , .
Wharton fa* Lewis,
no. 115, fomh Front fir.
;et, T 3- dlw
IMP OR TED]
§ From Hamburgh, Bremen, and London,
A ND FOK SALE BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
An assortment of German Linens,
CONSISTING OF
j- '' Ticklesburgs
** Ofnaburgs
reus Wcrcr , ij(eß
en Checks and stripes
•" e Bielefeld linen
,r £ e Brown filefias
the Silesia lawns
ft* Siamois, &cs &c. j
150 Boxes of Claret.
1 a || 5 Boxes of hollow glassware
r ra . It calks of Ruflia briiiles
Si;ur- ALSO ON HANDy
1 Box of Irish Linens
:are I Trunk silk goods
I Box of Gingham,
m 0 And a complete assortment of I "
n'itl English Buttons. ' <
( ' u ' Erich fa" Lewis 801 l man,
. , No. 100, Spruce ftree'. r
'gh ncven b;r 19 eoiot
ant FOR SALE. L
r Rice, in whole and half Tierces, j
Carcjina and Georgia Indigo.
AND A PARCEL OF *
Shipping Furs and Skins. u
Apply to
N. £9' J. Frcizier,
N®. 95, So. Front Street*
eg novembcr 13 3taw3w
John Miller, jum\~ al
Has returned to the City,
AND IS REMOVING FROM NO. 8, CHESNUT,
To the Five Story Building, in Dook
near Third-street.
' Where he has for Sale J
250 Bales of Bengal Goods; v«
CONSISTING OF
, Ceflaes „
iia, Baftas
Mamoodies
iC I Humhums
.Is Calicoes
Handkerchiefs, CsV, & c .
The remains oLajStock of
n a d DRY GOODS',
V Confifling of Woolens only,
ad aiupncst them asi, H
ir- Cloths
u- Coatings
id Blankets
es Kendal Cottons an ,
■c- . Hats, &c.
:d A L S 0, d "
_ 100 Hhds. of Old Rum,
Of a fine flavor, 3d fcf 4th proof,
a- 10 j |
This Day is Published, H '
ri AND FOR SAL *BY J. FE N NO, I Ig,CH ESN UT-S i R IIT
AN ADDRESS £.
lo the People of Maryland,
I ON the origin, progress and preicat {late of
' French ag K rrffion, with a (ketch 0 f the infamous If",
attempts te degrade the Government of the United
Statet, and some reflections on the late proceedings
in Congress ; written the lad of April ; n the pre 1
tent year, by a Member of the Hoafe of Reprefen-
rat ' v< "- , $ June xi
This Day Publijhed,
And for sale at the Office of the Editor, No. ~1
3 119 Che,fnnt-(lreet,
(Price 1 -ith t>fa Dollar J
AN ORATION,
> Pronounced July 4, 1798, 1
•t t ' le of the Towb ef
BOSTON, in comKiemßration of the anni-
verlary of American Independence,
e . By JostAH OytNcr. B
d Ihe inroads upon our public liberty, call 1
0 L°Ti r^P ara, ' on —The wrongs we have fuflained, I
" or Justice. That Reparation and tint ■ T>
Jufl'ce, may yet fie obtained, by Union, Spirit, • |
and Ftrmness. But to divide and conquer w« „
. the maxim of the Devil in the garden of Eden, n
2lf 7"J te ind e " S '?™ Hath b « n the P rind " hou
° pre fait v from that period to the i n \
■- Observations on the Boston Port-Bill, &c.p. ,8 r.u,
g august tbC iate U '" Cy ' ju "- His
r Creditors °f the Subscribers.
f P L E.ASF. TO l AKE NOTICE, that we hjveap- C
Pleas for ,h° u r!"' 1 ?" c the Court of C »«' »
f *■ fo . r thc benefit of an aft of assembly, p a (T-d ihe
J THURSnAv , Ap,i ' u fti a ' ,d thf y have appointed
dhnV, y ■ S7t r lnft - '° hear u » and cur Cre
rX' •" «'v Of Philadelphia, at f„ch place -r-r
" attend be heM ' a " d Wh " e
PATRICK CAVANAUGH, T 6 "
JAMES DOUGHERTY,
PETER G. ROSE, 1""
JOHN GREENE, n
1 LEWIS D GRAFF,
James M'Calley.
dec 8 RICHARD STOKES. A
y CC " ' 3'aw 3 w
5 as g
NOTICE. nefi
ALL persons indebted to the Eflate of Sam- E
un. Walus, elq.of Murcey tounfhip,
in the county of Lycoming, lately deceased, are R
hereby required to come forward immediately
and pay their refpedive debls.—And all persons
having legal demands against the Eflate, are
; reqaelled to produce their accounts, properlv A
, authenticated, for fcttlemeiit.
JOHN WALI.IS, r' ei i
WILLIAM ELLIS, CAdmi n ift ra . S
DANIEL SMITH, > ton , n N
JOHNADLUM, S ' m.
deccfiiuer ,3 - 1 "J
marshal's
United States, ) «.
Pennfylvania Diftriil, 3
IN pursuance of a writ to me direfled from
the hon. Richard Peters, Efqnirc, Judge of
the DHlrift Court of the United States, in, and
fsr the Pennsylvania Diftriil, will be exposed
to Public Sale, at the Morchant's Coffee House, 1
in the City of Philapelphia, on Saturday the
15th day of December inflant, at 12 o'clock at
noon, tho armed French veflel the Jaloux, with
her apparel, guns, and apurlenanecs, captured
by the public armed (hip the United States,
John Barry, Esquire, commander, in the said
jtain Diftriil Court condemned as forfeited.
WILLIAM NICHOLS Marffial.
Marshal's Office, Dec. 7, 1795.
Uuited States "> ff
Pennsylvania Diflriit. J
IN Purfuanee of a Writ to mc dire»sled from the
honorable Richard Peters, esquire, Judgeofthe
„ Diftriil Court of the United States in and for the
'' Pennsylvania Diftridt, will be exposed to public
fale at the Merchants' Coffee-Houfc in the City of
Philadelphia, on Saturday the fifteenth day of
Dccembea inflant, at II o'clock at noon, the arm
ion, ed French vessel, Le Sanfparcii, with her apparel,
guns, and appurtenances, captured by thj public
armed (hip, the United States J hn Barry, esq.
Commander ; and in the laid Ditln<3 Court, con
demned a J forfaited.
WILLIAM NICHOLS, marshal. ■
Marflials Office J
December 7, j
JHti SUBSCRIBERS, ~ 1
Of the City Dancing Assembly
a\RE informed, that theFirft .Assembly will be
held onThurfdryt! e io-b inft. atOiLLERs Hotel.
Thomas IV. Francis James Gibfon
Thomas Ketland Jonathan Williams ,
Mathews Pearte Stephen Kingston ;
William Macpherfon Samuel Murgatroyd
December 11
FOR SALE,
To be F.XCHANGED for property within thirty
mi es of the c ty, ortalct on ground-rent lorever
Several valuable building Lots,
In Philadelphia,
Enquire of William M. Biddle.ne. 147, Chefnut
f street.
nov 22 5
- s * Ironmongery, Cutlery, &c.
THE SUBSCRIBERS
INTENDING to decline their ptefpnt Business,
offer for sale, at reduced prices, a handsome
airortment of IroEniongery, Cutlery, &c. in lots
to suit the purchasers.
John Green <sf Co. V
No. 16, Nerth Second street. cc
oj* Ironmongers br
Will find the abeve Goods not unworty their in
attention.
n0v,23 jag
— hi
Dobbin & Roberts, d
TATLORS, hi
RESPECTFULLY inform thelrCuftomers, ami be
the Pubiic in gentral, that they have rcmo- re
ved from No. 114, Cfeefnut Street, to
No. 30, South Fourth Street; ag
Where orders in their line will be thankfully re- pi
ceived and diligently attended to. W
nov ember 15 mw&f.iw foi
French Language.
L ~G. DUFIEF, S
No. 63, South Second Street, ~
WILL l , U<
His DAY and EVENING SCHOOL, r e>
On Wednesday, the 14th Injl. abi
N. B.- Private l'uition attended to as usual
and Translations from either language into the
other, performed with accuracy, secrecy, and
dispatch.
nov - 10 ewtf
John J. Parry, a
CLOCK & WATCHMAKER,
H/IS again opened at his usual Stand, No. .38, 1
South SecondJl reet —where he has for Sale,
T A VARIETY OF /\
Excellent Gold fa* Silver Watches, p
' late
AND A FEW
>f Eight Day Cclocks, [he
j Which will be warranted to give J'atisfattion. are
r 3 An assortment of phi
; Gold, Steel and Gilt chains, Seals and Keys. ,
[. All kinds oj Clock and Watch work done with
particular attention as heretofore.
£3* An Appren ice wanted. D
novembcr 11 m.iviSff 2 w. T■'
LARENCE SECKEL,
No. 155, Market-Street. Afr
First quality London Particular t , X ,„ T „ 0 trie
j Madeira, Port, Sherry and Lisbon ) j )oc
Cogniac Brandy, ift to 4th proof. woi
Sp l its. 1,
By the Pipe, Hhd, Quarter-calk or Gallon. "
1 F c 3 mu&fzw " t
t 'j TEN DOLLARS " t]
> D 1^ ER m ED la(l night ' a second «i me . front " l '
s ' l:e L Ma " ne Camp, David a fife-.- " 1
He had when he went sway, a plain Hue jacket and " ?
ved,light blu*:overalls,around hat,which hfldbetn '
; houiid \vith yellow, and which he had ripped off " "
in his fit ft desertion, and a pair of new (hoes, he is
a Carpenter by trade, has grey eyes, fur.dy hair Uni
' Jl'ow compicx.on and a nirch in his upper lin mer
His back is fllll fore from a flo K gincr he uot a few chal
days ago He may bo discovered by his fifeint' of
as he plays extremely well. S.^
W. w. BURROWS Major Com. of the N
' °- tol ' er Marine Corps.
The time of an AQive t t
black boy, vA
; vrrno is about sixteen years old, and' has si Te wT
v V years to serve, to he disposed of He is V'
well acquainted with the business of a farm and C? *"
handy at cooking or waiting , n ,he heufe.' En
quire at the office of thU Gazeuc.
Nov. 26
• eo2w
WANTED, ~
AGED WOMAN,to take care TO
of children, ffiemuft be well recommended J '
as good temper, bonelly, fobricty and cleanl,- h =» '
neft.-Esqu.rc at No 258 Maket St. chan
Ucc - Ir ' 3t . Stat.
Ready Furnijhed Apartments.
ta ' > i e
A READY '®«iriiH», Shae
A the T r rloU ' and four 'Ambers, with
rleTf . r° f a K and Cellar ;«a vil^i
SSffi? " rCtt 5 ' * thc'X {£
an y'a pp re hen finri V" 1 "" . is " U » Preludes
vading fever" ° f C0 ' Ug!011 from the late Pr
decc,nb «'i s eoljt ot
Bank of North Ameriea.
THE Stockholders are herrH* . ,
EleAion fox twelve Dire&orj ? 0 ° r " ,h ' ?■**
from y e, r , wi H h« ,eU at the Ba»"' on m„ C . enfu, ?s
ge of t 4 th of January next, at *n o'cloc, thi
pofcd t> c 8.
oufe, j . dtEl
, the IMP Or TED, *
t,h "" S/ T A S
T.j, 1 icklenburghs,
said Oznabrigs,
iK White Platillas
Brown Silefias
Bretagnes
Hessian Rolls
ft s zz^:^
uMic Bed Ticks, &c.
I of For Sale b
arm GEORGE PENNOCZ
«•». nov,o n °" 103 Marke - ft «rt.
üblic ■ — £
111 notice.
A L . L Pe , r . fons indebted to-be Efhte of Wil,
lL fTh f ®" uch, "]P' '«ely deceased, are
fired to make immediate payment and those wW
have any claim* agnnft laid ElUte to produce
their accounts properly attefied to
ly Sam/. Price, executor.
"he "° V *° dim
B^EITfT — —~~
OF THI FIRST OUALITv
a ™ s And fi^^f r Voy r JF; r Sale ßy
d WILLIAM SHEAFF,
nov. „ N »-'6B, High Street.
dtf
FOR VALE,
lrty the Subscriber
- BelfaftCa„vaf S ,No.",, t „ 7 ,
> On moderate terms for Cast or a ffiort credit.
mt- 'James Lyle,
nov u f OUtb ~ Seventh J lr «h near Che/nut.
L_ ______________ 5
Forty Dollars Reward.
dmserted,
me na , Detach ™«> of Men under my com-
Z manJ ' at Can P Schuylkill, viz.
(Mober 2q.
KELLER, 40 years of age, e
VJT ftet 6 inches in height, da* hair aVd
cornpiex.o" bom in KoKand, no Trade, speak*
broken Engl,ft aad very talkative, has a dimple
c j r innischin. 1
November 6. John M«rp! V , a 7 vtars of
_ ?£ e » -5 r f et 7 i IRefa es in neight, eye?,, dirk
hair and complexion, born in Ireland, city of
Dub *i, by trade a Hosier.
Jacob Ider., 34 years of age, j fe« 6 inches
high, grey eyes, sandy hair, frelh complexion,
»d born in New-England, Hate of Connedlicut, a
repeated defcrter, bv trade a Blackfmi-h.
November 7. William Collins, 3oyeais of
age, 5 feet 6 inches high., sandy hair, frefh com
•e- p exion, grey eyes* born in Ireland, county of
\\ exford, by trade a Gardner, has worked for
jw lome time about Philadelphia, he is very fond
to hear himfelf Sing.
All the above deserters are very much additf
ed to i:quor, and will take other people's pro
ferty if in their power, are artificially marked
">. ilii.il , J,J.| U . CII . aa . a ..
! 'j rf g'mental clothing. Whosoever appre
hends said deserters, shall receive forty dollar
reward, or ten dollars for each, with all reafoft
able txpences, by applying t© me as above,
al EDIVARD MILLER, captain
he id regiment of Infantry commanding.
id nov 10
BALLAST.
A QUANTITY to bedifpofed of, if applied for
immediately, on board the Ship Loui(<, lyra*
Mr. HUMPHREY'S St.ip Yaid,
novemberio. j
ALL PERSONS having any legal demands a-
gainil the estate of IVilliam Pc. tins, deceased,
' late of the city of Philadelphia, Tavern kecj.er, are
reijyefled to furnilh their accounts properly au
thenticated, and all persons indebted to said eflate
n. are r.-qjclicd to make payment to the fubferiber in
Philadelphia.
LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH Admins '
OJlobcr 31 ft, 1795.
DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO WIT:
BE n REMEMBERED,
I HAT 011 the twelfth day
the Independence of the United States of
America, Benjamin Smith Barton, ef theiaid dif
, tricl, hath deposited in this office the title of a
book the right whereof he claims as author in the
words following to wit :
" New Views of the Origin of the Tribes and
" Nations of America—By i'enjamin Smith Bar
" ton, M. D. Correspondent Member of the Socic
" ty of the Antiquaries of Scotland, Member of
" the American Philosophical society, Fellow of
" the American Academy Of Arts and Sciences of
" Bod on, Correfpond'dg Member of the Maffa
j " ohufetts Historical Society, and Profcffor of
n " Materia Medica, Natural History and Botany
j- " in the Univerilty of Pennsylvania."
' In coiiiormky to the ail of the Congress of the
United States, intitled " An aii lor the encourage
msnt of learning by securing the copies of maps,
charts,and bonis, to the authors aRd proprietor,
of such copies during the times thcr.in mention»d.'»
' SAMUEL CALDWELL, Cierk.Diil.of Penn'
E November », 1798.
A Young Man,
WHO writes a good hand, understand*.
accounts and can be well recommended,
wants a Situation as Clerk or Afliftant in a
Wholesale Store, or Conuting-h':ule. Appli
* cation to be made at this Office.
* X
nov 14 }
- A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
JOHN A. SHAEFFER, ©J Philadelphia, who ha*
lor a few years past been in thefouthern States*.
. has had the effrontery to draw fevcral Bills of Ex
change on Timothy Pickering, Esq. Secretary of
State, and niylelf,and by that means kas defraud#a
a number of persons of their money, deceiving
them by an exhibition of letters aud papers wkh the
names affixed of divers public chara&eis and repu
table merchants highly recommendatory of laid
ShaefFcr; to one of these papers I find my name
fubferihed, but I do not know the man ; these arc
villainous lorgtries! To prevent further imposition,
I have to requefl the printers of Newspapers in the
United States to pubJifti this for the benefit of their
feJiow-citizcns. SAMUEL MERKDII H»
Treasurer oftb: Unitod bkitcft
Trenttn, Nerv-Jcrfey, 7
Qfto'jv 14, 179b. J