. of tiie A-rt Philadelphia Daily.Advertiser^
Number 1665.]
At a Meeting of the Directors
of the lnfurance Company of North America, at
iheir office this day, the divi i«fid for the last fix
month* was declared to be one dollar and fifty
ceHts am each fnarc of the (lock, which will be
paid to the Stockholders, or their legal repref-nta
tiris, on dny day afur the tßth inlt.
EB-EN. HAZARD, Sec'ry t
January 3. Q —w»ttßth
W. Haydon,
Delineator of Drawing—-from London,
(Where he has Itudied several years under one of
th« mod eminent matters in tbat science)
INFORMS his Iriends, that he has re-comment
ed his private tuition. —Terms, as usual, Six
Dollars per month, for attendance three times a
week. Lik«wife, all kinds of Ornamental Paint
ing, fruit, flowers, Sac. taught on the above terms.
\V. H. flatters himfelf his terms will be particu
larly advantayous to those that employ him, as
he makt.9 no additional charge if there are two
.pupils in one family.
A line c.n*dlc4 to W. H. left at, the office of this
Gszctte, will be immediately attended to.
Jaru;iy 9. " §2w
Salisbury Estate.
T"*HE 'Subscriber, prnp>6ng to coatrvS his buli
nek, offer? this Ellv.e for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one BLast and three Air Furnaces
-a compifite B->reing Machine, and a vfcry good grift
Midi with two pair ot tlon*s ; also a good Forgr, all
in perfeft repair, as aie all the Water Works connect
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately buth lor the purpose of casting Cannon
for this State.—There are *bou' two thou land acres
ot Land, one half of which isunder wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the bell Hay ajid
Palture. The Cannon lately manufactured there,
tally proves the excellency of the metal, which is
Juperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one of fi>cty-niae gtins
lately made, aSthougn some of the 24 vve-re bored
into 32-pyiinders. have faiUd On proving. The fr.u
ajtion is very eligible, particularly far this branch of
maoufa&ur?, and a place of arms lying in the (tatc
of Connecticut, as>d only 30 miles from lcveral land
ings on the Hud fun's and having every advan
tage that can rcfuit from a plenty of water iffuiii£
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all the ftoek. and utensils, and have pofTefTiGi)
on or beloTe the firll of June next, and preparation
may be made in the mean time for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, %c. Sec. For
terms, apply to Mr. |ofeph Anthony, in Philadel
phia ; David Brooks, fcfiq. one of the Reprefenta&ivcs
in C«ngrefs lor this State ; Mr, David Waterman, on
the prein;fe&, or to thfcproprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSOM.
Dee, 1. 3awtf
TO BE LET,
And pofleffion given the ift January,
The House No. 107, Arch-street,
Near the corner of Third Street-—For further
particulars, enquire as above, or at No. 88, Vine
Street.
Dacember 27 dtf
All Persons
Having any demands aga'nft the Estate of tha
late Japtain George Irwin, are reqlitfted to
bring in th#ir account* atteCi J, o?*
l>efore the firft day of January next ensuing
and those who are indebted to said estate are so
iicited to make immediate payment to
SARAH IR'vVIN, Administratrix.
Nov. 29 1707. 4
James C. y Samuel W. Fiiher,
AT THE -R STORE,
NoijX3 >i corner of Arch and Front flreets,
HATE FOR SAIE,
Cotton and worlled Hoficry in trunks, afTorted
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannels
Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs ,
Ditto Pullicat silk dittd
Ditto Pondicherry.and Madrafs ditto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taffetics
4000 pieces Nanksens, and
Few chests bed Hyson Tea
Alfo —I coo boxes bed London Window Glass,
from 8 by 6, to 19 by 14 —and 15 hhds. Glass
Ware, afTorted, which they willdifpofe of cheaper
than any in the city.
novcml>er 28. sawt£
NOW ~
At South-ftrect Wharf,
Ihe Cargo of the Ship Gsncord
Captain Thompson, from Bvavia.
About 300 tons firft quaii'y Java Coffee (the
whole having been felefted)
80 tons Java Sugar, in caaillcrs and bags
rc> leour- s of old Arrack
Nutmegs, Mace and Cloves
FOR TALE BY
PETER BLIGHT.
Who also offers For Sale,
Jull landsd from (hip Amity, from Jamaica.
108 hhds Jamaica and
170 do. do. Rum.
November 23. d6w
A person well acquainted with
• thetheory and praiViceof book-keeping, whoh<s teen
manyyearsengagedinbufinefstorhimfelf andothers,
would be glad to be employed, either as an agent
or factor; or in poftirg books ; stating unsettled
•accounts ; or in executing any other kind of writ
ing, in French orEnglitti.
A note addressed to J. A. and left at this office,
will be punitually attended to.
November 30. Jawtf
House and Lots, in Bar dent own.
TO BE SOLD, a handsome two story House.
with the Lot on which it is ercAed, situated
about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
Village of Bordentown. The house is forty two
feet front, and in neat order. The lot contains
one acre, and is one hundred feet on the main
Itreet, and extends with the fame breadth tuhack
street. Also, a large Lot, containing nearly four
acres, fcparatcd from the former by back ilreet.
One third only of the purchase money will be re
quired upon executing a deed, and lor the re
mainder, such credit will be given as the purchase
er may chiife. This property will be fold fre» •-
.ill incumbrances, and an indifputible title giveisf
For^farther particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnes, refidiug ia tiordentown, near.
>the premises, who will shew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, no. 144, Market-flreet.
December 2. ,?awtf
FOR SALE,
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Including Long Primer, about 400 weight, in
good condition, and would answer the purpose of
a country printer as well as urew.
Euquire of the Printer, nev. 30.
PHIL AD EL P-H 1A , WEDNESDAY EVENING, J A WART 10, 1798.
For Savannah,
TO SML THE FIRST OI'tNING,
« The faft failing ship
SWIFT PACKET,
Patrick Grihben, Maftcr,
lying the firft wharf below
Market Street^—has handsome a-c
---commodationl for paffeugtrs—Forfreight or pas
sage apply to the Master. on board, or to
N. & y. Frazer,
No. 95, South Front Street.
IVho have on hand, and for Sale,
Prime Rice, in whole and half tierces, Georgia
and Carolina Indigo, Molafles in hhds, Teneriffc
wine, &c. Sec
December 27 jtawtf.
Wanted to Charter,
Britilh v«flel, fifteen hundred
t° tW ° t^ou^ vc un^
Peter Blight %
WHO HAS FOR 9AIfC,
Choice Red Port Wine in pipes a»d hogfhea
old London Particular Madeira, fit lor imme
diate use, in pipes.
December 20 §lw
f or Charielton,
TH£ SKIP
V E N U S,
• Lying at the ivharj of Mejfrs. Perotts \
j OH£ will fake Freight on very
O low terms, and fail the firfr
opening.——Apply to the master on board, or to
Jos. Anthony ££3* Co. j
Detember 18 §
for Amlterdam,
The Ship
FARMER,
John M'CoiloK(, Master;
WILL fail in a Tew days, the
S23cfcji£J-Sife®sg. rea ter part of her cargo being
ready. Forfreight of fifty tons of Coffee, orpaf
fage, apply to the master on board, at Walnut
ftrc-et wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is Binding, out of the fajd Ship, from Bour
deaux, and For Sale,
Claret in hhds. - '
WJjite Wiue in quarter calks
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fentiniac, }
Sauterne, > Wiaes in cases
Lunille, )
Prunes in boxes
november 24. §
For Londonderry,
• Vhe brigantine
S UK Elf,
William Whittin, Master.
ftrong good vessel, about two
hundred tons, to f»il with all cßuvenient speed, a
parrrsif m-rr* wigaged—uow lyiflg. at
Willing and Francis'sw!|>r7: For irtighr or r n.
faee, apply to the captain, or
JOHN SKYRIN,
Landwbtrgn'3 xvhqrf.
Who wants to Charter.
A Vessel of about three hundred tons.
nov ! 8 . §
For Sale or Charter,
— —3,_, The Snow
W&L GOOD HOPE '
carr > r about 1100 barrels,and
3A v ready to take in a cargo. For terms
Pragers iff Co.
No. \sl. South Second-ftrcet.
W;Xo have forl'ale—pr:me St. Croix Sugar and
Rsti, Madeira, Lisbon, and Teneriffe wice.
November 7. dtf.
For Liverpool,
The copper bottomed Ship
Hamburg Packet,
RjjKfclHjSV Captain Silas Swain.
A Large proportion of her
cSiSrr^JiHi&i,*,_£\ cargo being ready to go on
board, is cxpeAcd to fail on cr aboutSanday, the
3d of December.
For Freight or Passage, apply to the Captain on
board, at Walnut-street Wharf, or to
PHiLIP NICKLIN Co.
November 22. §
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
aMU- Sally Butler,
Captain Chisholm,
A new veflel, with excellent
accommodations for passengers
Sails on the 10th of December. For Freight or
Passage, apply to
IVbo have to difptfc of y
A small invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
November 18. §
To be fold,
AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
iog 6 acres and 40 perches, w»th a neat two
story brick.House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. situate on the Irish tra<s lane, in the
township of Moyamenfing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for taste and
elegance, Hand unrivalled.
December I. dtf
The Subscriber intends to make
application for the lenewal of a Certificate of a Share
in the Bank of the United States,(landing in the name
of A. B. dated July 11, 1797, the fame
having been loft. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. 1. s6w
ROSS SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Cofias, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica, }
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and Bengal j 1 '
300 caflcs RICE, znd
A parcel of (hip building RED CEDAR.
Oil. §
-By John Fenno, Nf 119 Cbefnut Street.
Nicklin Griffith,
At ihe.r Store on Walr.ut Street Whar—
f FOR SALE,
S? hhds. of Jarna/ca Hum,
Madeira Wine in pipes and hhdj.
rrnrriffe do. in pipes
Old P. rt do. in hbdi.
Imperial Te» in quarters and eighths of chests
Sail Cauvafs, Ne. I, to 5
Dimities, Ginghams, and MuGinets, in packa
ge* t'uitable f.r the Wefl. India market
Nails assorted'
Black quart bottles ,
Queens ware in hhds. and crates
Yellow «chre dry in calks ;
And at New-York, onboard the
(hip Diana, from Liverpool,exported round
as fqon as the navigation u open,
Fine Liverpool Sa't
Coilß
Spanifli Brown "|
Venetian Red I
Purple Brown POINTS
Patent white j >
'A'hue lead
Ked lead J
Colcothar vitriol
160 bundles 'SJieathing paper
Seaming tw : ne
Ship Diana,
For Sale or Charter..
ALSO,
Brig Amazon.
K B. I'iie late firm of Philip Nicklin Co.
ic now chsiijed to
NICKLIN & GRIFFITH.
January 1. eodtf
Philapelphia &Lancaster Turn
pike Copipany.
January 4, 179&. '
At a metting of the Prtftdent and Managers,
this day, a di-viJ/nd 9/ 5 dollars per Jhare tuas
dftlartU for the hff half year, which will be by
them retained, for the payment of the debts of
\be Company, agreeable tea rtfiletion eftbeSttck
holders the ntfy June lift.
TENCH,FRANCIS, Treasurer
Of the Philadelphia y LancaJitr\T urupike Com'py.
'January % mtfW/
Ran away the 25th of Decem-
W, 1797, aMegro Man, about s feet J or 6 inch
es high, of a yellow complexion; when fj.oke to
and called by his name he has a quick lharp look
out of his ey«B and Ihews the white of them very
much ; his taken all his eloathes with him, which
aie, a new kersey great coat, a grey bioad cloth
and clpfe bodied coat, a striped veil, nankeen
breaches, silk (lockings and ruffled shirts, and a
number of other cloaths. The said Negro under
ftaads farming, and is a pood shoemaker and car
penter ; he can read and write tolerably well—lt
is likely he may forge a pafi. Whoever takes up
said pegro and secures him, lb that I get him, fliall
have Thirty Dollars re\ »rA r- ;J the fubisriber,
Armjj infittttP.nd, Ma»y-
Enta, KeUt coonty.
N. B. The above Negro is 19 years old.
January 2. L 6t
THE AMERICAN LADIES
POCKET*BOOK, for 1798.
JUST PUBLISHED
By WILLIAM Y. BIRCH,
No. 17, south iceond-ftreet—containing
AN elcgapt Frpntifpiece of the Marquis de la Fay
ette, and his Family, in the castle of Olmutz,
witlp an illustration; being account of the princi
pal events in the public life of the Marquis, with a
{ketch of the fufferirigs oi hiinfelf and his unfortunate
family- A complete Almanack— 104 ruJcd
for memorandums, observations, &cc. aJfo,for account
'yjf mr.nies paid and received for every day in the year
—a marketing and oiher ufeful »V>ks—geyral niect
ings of friend^ —Lift ofc births, dca hs, See —new
country dances, poetry, songs, enigmas, &c. &c.
ALSO,
The Gentleman'! annual Pocket Remembrancer,
for 1798 —containing an Almanack; ICI4 rule 1
for memorandums and calh account ; Duties payable
oc goods impoited into the United States, Cultom
cule fees, &a stamp duties, to take place after the
3 1 ftDcc« mber; a lift of the post towns and cross-roads
in the United 3tates; a variety of ufeful tables, and
other interesting matter,
W. Y. BIRCH, constantly keeps for sale, a genera!
affortmentof Merchant's account Books, and other
ftat onary goods, and makes to order books of any
size , and ruled to any pattern.
Elegant Maps, on Rollers, and a large Chart of the
Weft-Indies.
Hair and leather Trunks—Playing Cards, English
and Amctican. Dec. ay— * 3t.
Imported in the brig Eliza,
Capt. Hastie,from Bourdeaux ;
Claret in Cases of a very superior quality,
White Sauterne Wine in Cases,
Olive Oil in balcets of ta bottles each,
White and coloured Kid Gloves,
do. do. bilk do.
A few pipes of Bourdeaux Brandy,
For Sale by
JAMES 1 ATIMER, jun.
7i,Softth Wharv«s.
Who has also for Salt*,
A few qr. Calks Old Sherry Wine.
Dec. diw
The Sublcriber,
Informs those to whom he is indebted, that his
books, which have been kept open for their inspec
tion since December 1796 are balanced to the 3l it
ult. and will during the present month "remain
open at his Couutmg-houfe in Chefnut Street for
their farther inveftigatioti snd fcruf'ny.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
Philadelphia, Jan. 1111798.
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, thezotb
inll. Tickets for Sale in this Lotctry, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm, BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-ftrcet—
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at 7*i
Dollars, whet e check books are kept lor regifter
log and examiniog in these, the City of Washing
ton, No.il. and Paterfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in mod of the Lotte
ries authorifid by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The bufinefi ©£ a Broker, in buying and
felling all kinds cf Public Stock" and Securities,
difcountiig Bills and Notes of Hand, sale oi
Lands, Hotffcs, &c. See. witi be duly attended to,
.by WM. BLACKBURN.
November 15. ' §
NOTICE.
ALL. persons who have qny demamjs against
thi cilate of Willam Fleewtood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, mer?hint, de
ceased, are requefttd to exhibit their accounts,
properly attelled j and those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to malce immediate
payment, ta
January 4. dtf
E,
By JOHN MILLER, jun. Erf Co.
No. 8, Chrlnut-ftreet,
One hundred and eighty tales
BENGAL GOODS,
, Amongst which are,
Gurrahs Mamoodies .
Baftas Sania^
Gait naljis Tanda CoSaes
®unies Kmmia
Bine Cloths Calicoes
Palampoors Romall Handket chiefs
Amongtl them are a great proportion of the
manufadures of Pafna.
December 1.
JUST~RECEIVED, _
(via New-York)
AND NOW OPENING, BY
George Dobson,
No. ij, south Third street,
An exfenlive and general afiortm-ent of
HABERDASHERY, viz.
Bed London milt Pins Gilioone and ferrets
Common do. do. Worsted Bipdiiigs.alfor-
Makenzie'sfupar,patent ted colours
white chapel Ntedles Imperial,' diaper, and
Nuns Thread no. 6 to Thread Tapes
40, regularly alForted White Edgings
I.isle do. no. liO to 500, Blacknd coloured Chi
regularly aborted nefe Ribbands
Coloured do. Sattin and figured do.
I Black sewing Silk,s Black Velvet, 1-4 to lid
Colpured do. and Twill Vdvet Sc pelon Sattits
Silk and cottcji Wires French Cambrick
Do. da. Ribbands Scotch do.
Shirt Moulds and Wires Plain gilt and platad
Black brulh Feathers ' Buttons
And 3 compleat aflortment of Gsods. suitable
to the prelent and approaching season, at reduced
price,.' Dec. 6; dtf
Employment for the Poor.
FLAX for SPINNING,
To be given out every second, fourth, and Cxth
day morning, between the hours of ro and 12—
: back of no. 54, south Fifth street, ahove Spruce
ftreet. eodzw
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in whole and half tierces
| Bourdeaux Brandy
■ Tenerifje Wirte
Molafjls
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Ravens Dud and one hogshead of paiit
brufhet. '
2V. W J. Wraxer.
No. 95, Sonth Front Street.
Nov. 7. dim
t refti Raisins.
A Small cargo just arrived, and now landing
at Chefnut street whirs, from the (loop Ya
rico, capt. Hafketl, cojifilling of Kees, Boxes and
Jars. A few Jars of excellent Grapes, and facjes
of foft shelled Almond's. Apply to the Master
on bpard, or to
Jos. Anthony & Co.
December 19 §st
Imparted (via New York) on tlje
fhrp Hefo, trom Madras and Calcutta, and for
sale by the fubferibtr, at No. 6|, Chefnut ftreei,
between Second and Third Streets, the follow
ing articles .
Maharagonges Charconna Dor«ns
Chintz andCalicpes Dacca worked muslins
Gillis Romais Bandannors
Nillas !<. PenEafocs Challa Romak
Slue cloth Flair ribbbn
MullMullhankerchiefs Palempores
Patna do. Banarec Opium
Lefler Cardimum Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox.
tuth»4w
Chocolate and Mustard,
of a superior quality manufailured,
GINGER and Pepper, ground ; (helled or
pearl Barley ; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
Ale and Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Ale
London Porter; red, Port and Lilbon Wine,
fuitahle for exportation or horAe confiimptior..
The highest pi ice given for Mu(tard-Sc<i>.
Alfa forfait, A quantity of Bocking and.
common Baizes, a variety of colors-; a baleof
Fuftkns, Shawls, &c, for f\le by
JOHN HAWORTH,
No. 98, south Front-street.
Nov. 27- ro.&th.t.ij.
A Hqul'e in Burlington tor bale.
' I 'HE fubferiber his a large, convenient two
i i'.ory brick House, with Stables, Carriage
houfe, 'and a well improved Garden, in the City
of Burliiigton, New-Jersey. which he wi(hesto
sell. For termsapply at No. 5, South Fourth
street, to GEORGE WALKER,
Who has also for Sale,
Lots in Walhington City,
Contiguous to the Capitol and to the principal
harbour.
December 29. eo7t
FOR SALE, ~
By the Subscriber, at his Store, No. 75, Sooth
Water-flreet,
A general aflortment of China
Ware
Black and coloured Sattins
Do. do. Luteftrißgs
Do. de. Handkerchiefs
Do. do. fewing^Silks
Imperial and Hyson Tease
liOng and Ihort Naakecns
Quick Silver, in tubs
Holland Gin, in pipes
AfTorted Glass Ware, in cases
White and brown Havanna Sagars, in !>oxes
MolalTes, in hogshead*
St. Croix Rum and Sugar, in do.
J.ondon particular Madeira Wine
Sherry and Malaga Wihcs, in quart-.r calks
Red, yellow and pale Barks, in chests
Logwood, &c. &c.
7. JOSEPH SIMS.
War-Office of the United States,
January the ijl, 1798.
WHEREAS frauds hav* been pra-Sifed, in
ohtainin* Warrant* lor Bounty Land*, due
to the and S'oldirrs of the late Continental
.irmy, by the produ&ion of forged inilruincrts.
To check jn future such impoiitions, it has been
thought advifeable ; that all pcrfors, having claims
for bounty lands, whether ill their own right, as
legal representative, or by virtue of any inftruaient
or tleed of transfer, he required to forward their
rsfpeilive claims to the War Office, on or before
the firft day of January 1799 in order rh'at such
claims may be duly examined, adjured and deter
mined upon.
To fubftantiatefUchtlaims, a of
the tulcs-heretofore issued frnra the War Office will
| be iudifpeulable ; and 111 addition to what is requir
ed by thefaid rules, the cmificate ol the acknow
ledgement of a Deed or Power cf Attorney, mull
a ; fo fct forth the place of rcGdcnce and occupation
of the ciaimant or pctfou making such acknowledg
ment ; and whan the proof of pevfoaal knowledge
is by a wftnef*. or witnefles, th.-ir place or placet of
residence mu# betfet fnrth in like manuer-
JAMES M'HENRY, S t c'y of War.
Jan. 7. d6w
BALL. ~~
Mr. Trsncir refpeflfutljr informs hi' febotars, and
the public in general, lhat hi* second pra&ifing
BaUwlilbeon lhnrfday the Uth at "the new Af
ferfthly Room South Fourth ?>treet,between Chefnut
and Walnut Street— Ladies Tickets to be had by ap
plying t-« the scholar* of Mr. Francis, or at his
house No. 70 North Eighth Street.—Gentlemen's
tickets /ne dollar each, to be had ol Mr. Francis,
at the Academy, or at hit house.
Mr. Francis likewise informs the Subscriber to the
Seleifl Balls, that the nest will be on I'ucfday the
16th—ThoCe fubferibers who have not yet received
their tickets are requested to apply for them as a
bove.
Mr. Francis continues to take Scholars as usual.
J*n. 7. d4t ,
gr The owners of the Brigantine
Mercury, William Uron, mailer, captured by
a Spamfh privateer and IoW at Ceuta in laftDe
| cemher, may receive interesting information ref
pe fling her, by applying to the Department of
1 State.
* The Printers in the sea-port towns of
' the United States will render a service to the
concerned, by inserting the above in tbeir news
papers. Jan- 3.
j For bale by the Subicriber,
10 t»les Cfiffa-s
- 40 do. Baftas
11 do. Matiloody
17 do. Chintz
7 do. Tookery
a do. Gorahs
IS do. Meragungees
i do. Check Stripes
I do. Guzzie
I box Diapers
7 do. Umbrellas
45 pipes fineft particular Madeira Wine, «f
the vintage 1795.
MORDECAI LEWIS.
December 5. 3aw4w
Hyson and Young Hyson Teal
A few chest? of excellent quality, For Sale, cor
ner of Second and Pin«-Arcct-%
December a 6. cojf
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. tio Walnut-Oreet,
INFORMS thole who with to recur to the only
means of becoming perfeft in the Frtnch Lan
guage,that he has just opened his Library, con
fining of upwards of 1250 volumes, the bed cal
culated to afford either ufefui itillruilion, or plea
lure. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may be seen at every book-feller's
in town.
N. b. All translations from and into the French,
Englilh and Spaniih Languages, executed with ac
curacy and dispatch. eoim nav.ij.
"FOR SALE;
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. sSf 'J I6 corner of Chefnut and Front streets,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. AI/b, a general nffortment of Tools,
Files and Materials, coafifling of Clock Movt.
rtierts, eight day and thirty hour brass pinions
and f»rge work ; Bells, clock and watch Dials,
Springs, Hands, Glaffei, Punice Stone, Emery,
l'.otun Stone, Cat Gut; bench, Hand and tail
Vices; Turns, Pliers,Chains.Seals,Keys, &c. &c.
%* Apprentices Wanted.
noveinber j. f&tntf
Landing this day,
From on board ths schooner Two Friends, Dan*
lei Crawley, Mafler,
80 hlids. and ) T„ • nnm
re pipes j Jamaica R.UIVI,
FOR SALE BY
George Latimer & Son.
uovemher 9.
FOR SALE, at ~
Wm. Young's Book Store,
No. 51, Second flreet, the corner of Chefnut Greet,
REPORT of the Committee of the House of
Representatives of the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
against WILLI AM BLOUNT, a Senator of the
UjAml States, impeached of high crimes and n:if
f ar anors, made in pursuance of a resolution of
the Houfxof Representatives, authorizing the said
Committee to fit during the recess ofCongrefs, and
inftruaing thfm " to enquire, and, hy all lawful
" means, to difoover the whole nature and eitent
" of the offence whereof the (aid WillUm BJount
" (lands impoachej, and who arc the parties and
" allbciatestherein."
Printed hy order of the House «/Reprefentatives.
December 20 §
NOTICE. "
To holders of JAMES GREENLEAPs
and EDIVARD FOX'S Engagements
IN coufequence of many having been prevent
ed, from late unavoidable circumstances from
obfciriing their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. The Trustees now inform them, they
are ready to ifiue &he fame to tbofe who may ap
ply within sixty days, at No. 8 Chefnut Street,
and those who do not, will be confidercd as re
linquishing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided for their payment.
HENRY PRATT,
THOMAS W.FRANCIS,
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER,
December 15. d6ot
[VOLVMB XIII.LONDOV X n T |
NEGOCIATION' AT LISLE. '
0 fata I Documents Ul Ibtfn* Jl&tjjW#- ■
Continued from ycflerday's Qjfrc'Ac.
I hid * conferencethi» ma-flmn As I war !]
very defir.-his ot being cabled •» »o yoJ? |
fome mo re i*u*i*Cu>ry -*rion n 'i to tHe m>- |
live*of ini*de»a\, I 4gtin j>refT4 l^c French plc-ii- j
04*tcnti»r*«« o* tW%»fbint—They «ac?» tlpff ~cd wtut j
tkjty had f"d befare; on my endeavoring to m ike 1
them feel how impofliSle it w» thit hit mjjeUy
fliouW not be hurt at this defn ir on fa very simp l e a ,
ptwnt, ps&Af them (aid, you lo aogt»r kivora- <
bfffrom it; your note was a co agree to what i
•vfraj .fitted by ih?- Direftory in their inUnidionS to 'js ,
a* a fu* zui.?)on : if theD »r<iory wc;« dfCirmirtcd to
pfcfrflft m (*Thfine(f**no*, th?y <£fuUl Cud f» -»t i
onfi*—" Je vom aflurequ'il nou* aui»'i. pi implement
rtfnvayf >r dearier wetChi* woivii. H.e tune they
( take ta d«jrt>rrate irtdicalta beyond a Joul>lxb't t'joy
are looking tor some temperatnent, and it scarce em
be doubted one wiU betounu I said 1 was plcafed
to hrtr him favth;» ; but that fttll be iriufl be aware
that it would not be an tafis. ffrr me u tity
to-dav either intercity or fati»fddtory.
Another of the French miiv.llert laid* »tbat he really
believed that ch-.a would be tjic oplv great impedi
ment wc thall have to encounter, that every thiag
would f»o on ojickiy and fmootl>ly, and that I mutt
admit the preJent to oc a very impoiunt and difficult
point io the negociation- I agreed with bim entirely i
as to its imjKJf'ance, tut could not acquiesce as'to its <
diftcul y. 1
!am very fo*fy. my lo'd, that in fach a moment, <
and after waiting so long, T fliotrid not be 'able to (
lend you more explicit and decisive affarmces; but it r
is not in mv po*£/ to Comoel the French negotiators j
to move on faflcr. All I can do i» by my and
language, to take care that no part whatever of the ' t
imputation of delay fhou.'d me. 1 have, at
4viry (••sfWeiicv I held, always declared my
readuieft to proceed, and I shall not fail to repeat
tbii ret? ii«,e we mritt. *
No. aH. Note Irom the rreorh plenipotentiaries to t
lord sb iry. «
Th. miniftpii plenipotentiary of the French repub-
Hc wi i bejwppy io havfe an opportunity ef converf- C
ipj{ for a few minutes with lord Malmefbury ; and t]
:r y hare inconsequence the honor of propofmg to
"him to meet them at lvv '° o'clock to-day, or any o
ther hour which m»y be more convenient to him, v '
and which he will h ve the ?oodne r fc to appoint. t<
* i hey renew, wilb pleasure to brd Mairiefbury,
the afTurances of their high confidentiou.
!fo. 29 Ext raft of a dispatch fiom lord Malmes
bury to lord Grertviile, dated Lille, August ig- '797*
In confeqocnc« of ti»'e refolutio 1 we hkd come 10, fe
to meet on the days of the arrival of the post from t j.
our conferences fhii last week h-ve taken
place regularly every other morping, except on
'/burfday, the 10th of Auguil* which being the an- I
"tiivexfary of one of the national feftivals, the Frer.ch
legation could not attend. p,
I have in mine, hTo. 17 given your lordfhio an r
arcount of eveTV thing which paflV.d up Io that of the
6h. On ike Bth nothing was said at all worth tranf- C
milting, except an intimation flung out by one of the ct
French plenipotentiaries, that it would be neceffarv
to take into consideration the rights of neutral na- c
tions on thitoccafion. Bat as hefpoke very vaguely, an
and in general tertni, I did uot choose to prels him tb
for an explanation, ai I confiier itmore judietous tn a
avoid difcuillonKoii feparateand collateral points, and
rrot to enter into negotiation 'till the whole can be
bmucht underdeliberat on at once. Ob
What passed on the 1 ath was rather more interest- VQ
injr. The return of Mr. Weflky afforded me a very *
natural opportunity of exprelfing the impa - icnce With
whicKan answer to dy lall no£e waj exptfted by my cd
\ conn ; that three weeks had now elapied since its tic
ed tr infipujte that due at«enti'm had not teen paid to
so very im ortaot a fubjeft as that on which we were 10
treating, y« I could not bu-' greatly lament, that day CO
sftcr day should be. allowed to away without cur y Q
proceeding at all in
were met. Ooe of the French minitters said, that it
was irapoflible I could lament this delay more than
ihey did 1 that they had already declared to me that
it was oceaQoned by a wt(h not to create but to re-
move difficulties; and they could aflute me poGtivtjly,
that the French government had no other obje£l in
vjew, andahat I Ihould find, when once we brgan tH(
fairlyto n«gociate, w«» thould proceed very rapidly wr
I rep'ieo, it was indeed very material U> make w j
jjood the time we loft The French minister an- -
iwered, you ,would not call it time loft if you knew * Ol
how it was employed. On my expressing, by my
manner, a wilh to be informed, he went on, by fay- c il
ing, we will not scruple fell you, though we feel
vt ought not yet to do it offictallv, that we are con
futing with our allies ; that we have communicated tCi
to them all that has paded here ; we have dated that, a t
unlets they mean to continue the war, they must re- fe(
lease us from our engagements, and enable us, in a -
certain degree, to meet your prop jfals.
The conference of to-day is this moment over. One M
of the Fiench plenipotentiaries informed me, that he A
had leceived this morning a letter from the Prefideut
of the Directory, alluring him that in four or live
days they would receive their final inductions ; and no
be added of himfelf, that he truAcd these would be OC
such as would enabU us to continue ouf work with
<■ out any further interruption I said, I hoped these
inftrudicns would be in a counter-p'ojct, as
J did not fee bow any thing lbort of one would eaa
ble us to proceed so rapidly as he defenbed. He a- th
greed with me er.ttrely, and a flu red me, that both re j
he and his colleagues had repca'edly stated the necef
(jty of a being sent them ; and heob- ni '
served, that he really thought the French government CO
have forefeen fvery thing which had paflcd,
and beeo prepared with ont ; anH that this work »
vould have laved a great deal of valuable time. As I
could not myfelf have said more, 1 readily gave a full *Ol
tffent <0 what I heard . inj
No. no. Extra# of a dispatch from Lord Grenville |* u
to Lord Malmefbury, dated Auguft
i«, 1797. VT|
An ' Jtprrffton mtnlioncd in one of your lordfhip'i CO
lift HiffJicbeJ to h«vc f.llrn from one of the French
plcnipotentMiit!, leads to Ihe prcfumption that it is ,•
ifitendcd, on the part of France, to bring forward
iotne p'opofal about the *sviga(mn of neti ral powers
in time of war. Your lq,d(hip will bed judge of the w]
proper opportunity of exprelTirtg his majelly's decid- an
ed and uoalterakie icfolution on thi« point, not to ad- «
mit ef any pfopofals of treatnig with hit enemiea on n '
the fubjeft of the lights or claims ot neutnl powers.
The orly remark with which 1 ha»e to trouble it
your lor'lfiup, by this rrjcffcng?r, relates to an cx- jJj
prefGon in the late menage of the cbredory to the
couocil of five hundred, which. If literally takeo, l >e J
convey, an accufaiion against hismajefty'B govern-
ment that foine delay has ar fen on the part ef an
this c< nntry in the negotiations at Lisle. This is
so avowedly contrary to the fa A, that it mufl be w j
confidcred w impoffiMc that such a charge couldbe •
intended to be made by a government which<afc
had at that moment delayed for thr:c weeks m%
ing any aifwer to hit majelly's diftinfl and liberal M
proposals for peace, and whose plenipotentiaries et
were daily apnlijirxg to your lordship for thisun
bccoming, and, .as th«y almost confef', unaccoun
table delay'; bat as the point is too important to 111
be left unnoticed, it is the king's plcafitre that your °'
lrrdftip Ihould present a n»te, remarking upon as
the sense to which tHefc words are liable, express- to
ing your perfonUan t}j}t such cannot bt the inten j
tion with which they were used, but aflcing on the /,
part of yout cmrc an explanation to that effect,
which caon«>'« reluied without a violation of ev- "
ery thing wbitb truth and juflica nquirc« on such til
anoccaOor. , > Jo
No. yi- F.fs'iGt fffn tli<- mctfage of the French jj,
dircflory t,o i>t, <ouni.il ot Jive hundred, August ,
?th, T-j 7. "In flio't thi> CiUi'j isinthefamt
Jcfpcmlvney in which ajl good, cit ziua, and parti
cula'ly the dcfenilcf* ps, the f»*ntry, are, at fee- in
ing deferrett, ;*} 'V very moment when its ccnclu- I
f:o-. V .T-to be nc»r lt hand and after ta
vmp b< nght it with so much Mood and so mu.h
deSnitive whiclvtke heads of w
the cbalifiitJ >t length foltcited in good It'
eainrf. ; when it, cqncluton was eipe«9td, and ol
wfcicHjjgwyqni'mrut, frieniUy to huniißi.y, were Q|
Hill more earnest .U> c«uc}u:'e; when, ail ana .
ludden, buoy«d up with new hopes, r-ckonxg up- .
rn »genera! diflolu'ion of the n«veni!»>rtit by the *
of iu financts, upon it, deflrudwti, tip«n U 1
I' tS- ar birriAT.cqt of it? lir_vcft generjfai.and
uposi «he d'CperO-ii; '.nd lets t!l u* irmict, these
verT f*me cmef.vd piirer, hthr.iwu is mudi
| deliy into the 1 ncgotiationj. ai they had Siewo aai
* itty to brin»them ta en e^d."
INo Ji Copy of a dispatch from lord Malmef
bury to brj Lifle, Aug. 21,1 ?};■
_ j la my of'thM uioraitig, I took anop
' pqrtunivr of remarking ;v *'ieVrc:ic'i »l;nipoteti
,t . tiajie- on ;h» very urilair a-.iJ extra»d.uary iffer
e tion w'jich hiJ app-arevl in the ineiTage if the
v ' inil theiireilf.ry tn thn c-ir.icii "t fivehun
a , dred viz. "Que ks HuilTincvs coiiifeca wut mi*
i- i 4UTaot de Lentcur, daq» les negotiations, nuVl'«
it i avoitut niuntie tie TArlciir pour l«« terminer "
>« h o'jferved to them, that l had orders from my
° f court to aft. a preeife explotutiqn, whether ihU ac-
I cuJaiioti of >W'*y was mean c to apply t® die man-
II ner in had condufled the nego-
V tiaiiou at Lisle; atirfif it v.ls so meant, tod'clare
' that no accnf»tion was ever more deltitnte ot fonn
" dation, nor j wider devi ition frcm the real fail.
~ I Cud' I wjtl perfe2ly reaJy to abide by their de
termiuarioti on this point, coavinced that it was
imputable (<sr tliem nat to acknowledge that the
y delay (if there had been any blameable delay) reS
ed wirl the French government, slid not with his
majesty The Freneii plenipotentiaries admitted
thu to be raoll ftriflly true ; that the phrsfe I hid
It quoted was an ill-judged one, an.! mal-rcJigcc:
y but that it could not in any fojnt of A'lew whatev-
J cr be cQiittrued as applying to England, and they
were re»dy to fay. that when it was written, the
i directory alluded to the court of Vienna ; that they
0 could alfure me they had been tcry faithful ill their
1 reports, »ad that when they said thii, it wis fay
? ing in other words that 1 hid carried on the nego
tiation with as much expedition as poflible, and
" t that if it had proceeded slowly fortius last month,
the flownef* arose on their fid'.-, aud not on mine.
t I said I could not for an iuftant call in
question their feelings on this point: it was
' the infinuatian conveyed in the message, and
which had gone over Europe, that it was ne
cessary for me to clear and to know whe
ther the direftory thought and felt as they
did. One of the French ministers, with
very flrong expressions, assured me the direc
tory certainly did think and feel like them ;
that no unfair or insidious allusion was meant
and added, " Que ce message etoit fait pour
ftimuler les Coumcils." I went on by ob
serving it was very essential for me to have
this fully explained, and that-1 (hould give
them in a note to this effeft : they requelted
I would not; it would lead to disagreeable
difcufttons, and would not answer the end I
proposed. They would take upon them
selves now to aflfure me in the name of the
Direftory, that nothing at all similar to the
eonftru&ion I put on the phrafc was intend
ed, and that as soon as they could receive
an answer to the report they iholild make of
the day's conversation, they Vrould fay the
fame from the direftary itfelF.
I hope, my lord, I have, therefore, by
obtaining this very precise and formal- disa
vowal of an intention to fix any imputation
of delay qn his majesty's government, fulfill
ed the obj«<ft of my inftruftions on this par
ticular point. If when the French plenipo
tentiaries speak from the directory the disa
vowal (hould not be equally fatisfa&ory and
complete, I then will'not fail, according to
your lordship's order, to'give in a note. I
have the honour to be, fcc.
No. 33. Ext raft of a dispatch from lord
Mfclmefbury, to lord Grenville, dated Lisle
August f J797.
The four conferences I have held with
the French plenipotenti»nV«. f'.c T
wrote to your lordship, on the 14th initant,
will I fear, furnifh very interest ing materials
for a dispatch. <
Oor conference of thia morrring was prin
cipally employed in what I have related in
my other dispatch ; but the French plenipo
tentiaries afTured me, that by Thursday, or
atthelateftby Saturday, they expefted to
receive their long expefted meflenger.
No. 34. Exlraft of a dispatch from lord
Malmefbury to lord Grenville, dated Lille,
August 29, 1797.
I am efctremeiy sorry te be forced to an
nounce to yonr lordship, that frefh delays 1
occur in the progress of the negociation..
The French plenipotentiaries informed me 1
at our conference yelterday, that th« last an
swer from Holland was so unfatisfaftory that
the direftory had ordered the minister for fo
reign affairs to return it to the Dutch mi
nisters at Paris ; that the Dutch ministers
could not take upon themselves to alter it in
the way the Direftory proposed, but had ■
been obliged to refer to their government
for new orders ; and that therefore, suppos
ing no time to be loft in deliberation on this
fubjeft at the Hague, it would be at lead a
week from to day before any further account
could be received here.
After lamenting this unexpefted procras
tination of our business, I expressed a wish
to know what the Dutch answer had been,
what objeftions the direftory had made to it,
and what alteration they were desirOus it
(hould undergo.
One of the French plenipotentiaries said,
it had not been communicated to them, but
that he u.idtrftood it was complexe, I ache, et
peu fatisfaifante. —That thedireftory expeft
ed it should be clear an(J diftinft, and such
an one as would enable them to fend such in
ftruftions here, as would allow us to'go on
with the negociation in a way to recover the
time we had loft.
No. 35. Extraft of a dispatch frsm lord
Malmefbury to lord Grenville, dated Lisle,
sth Sept. 1797.
I (hould have confideted what has passed
in our conference fincc I last had the honour
of writing to your lordship by Mr Wefley,
as in itfelf too unimportant to authorize me
to dispatch a meflenger, but that in general
I think it my duty never to leave your lord
ship more than a week without hearing
from me ; and I was also glad of ai\ oppor
tunity to acknowledge the receipt of your
lordship's idifpatch, No 23, which was de
livered to me by meflenger Shaw, on the 31ft
•f August at 10 P.M.
Nothing but common conversation passed
in our conferences of the 30th of Auglift,
and of the ill September. In that of the
3d the French plenipotentiaries confirmed
what they had taken upon themselves to af
furem* oft the 22d of August, inconfcquence
of the reprefciitation I had of your lord (hip's
oAleri to make on the expreflion9 employed
by the direftory in their message of 9th of
August, to the councils, and whieh expref-
C»i>s appeared to fix an imputation ps delay
on hit aiajePt; *s govertSmCut in the progreii
of the negociation. They said that they had
reported to the directory wh.it I observed on
this fubjeft, and tlilt they were now charg
ed to repeat what I had aire3dy heard from
ihem, and to doclas'e -that no intention l'tnii
lar to that I nrpperfrd ever exiftrd on the
part of the directory.
In our coafeTehce of this morning, al
though I had reasOn to expect that the an
fwtr from the Hague was arrived at Paris,
yet it was not admitted by the French ple
nipotentiaries.
No. $6. Evtraft of a dispatch from lord
Malmefbury to lord Grenville, dated Lisle,
9th Sept. 1797.
I need riot fav that the* two conferences
wliichhave been held tince I dispatched the
meflcnger (Brooks) were not likely, under
the present circuintiances of this country, to
affird anything extremely important or in
tending.
In that of Thursday the 7th, one of the
French plenipotentiaries began, on my en
tering the room, by announcing a wi.fh that
the great event which had taken place at
Paris should not interrupt for a long rime
our negociation, or destroy the pleasing prof
pedt we had of its soon terminating fuccefs
fully ; and from his manner I clearly saw he
meant to convey the idea that it was, his o
pinion it would cot. lendeavoured to dif
coveV whether he spoke in Coafequeace of a
ny private intelligence he had received from
Pari#, or simply from his own private judg
ment ; and I found it was entirely from the
latter.
In our conference of this morning, he said
they were still without any letters from M.
Talleyrand (which rather surprised him) •
but he could assure me with certainty, that
by Monday they should be empowered to
go on with the negociation, and that I might
fafely fay so to my court.
No. 37. From lord GrenviHe, to lord
Malmeibpry, expressive of regret for the ad
verse views which the " Predominant party
at Paris" manifefted on the fubjeft of peace.
No. 38. Copy of a dispatch from lord
Malmefbury, to lord Grenville, dated Lisle
Monday, Sept. 11, 1797.
My Lord,
On my going to the conference this morn
ing, the French plenipotentiaries, informed
me that the whole Ffertch legation was >e
called, and that Messrs. Treilhard and Bon
nier. d'Alco were appointed in their room.
They said, their ordmf were to communi
cate this event to me'itnttiediatefy, and at
the fame time to add; in the name of the.
French government, that this alteration in
the choice of the negociators, would not
proiuceany change whatever in the difp&fiti
on ef the directory, to bri'Og the negociati
on to a happy issue.
I assured them I was extremely sorry to
hear that they were re-called. That we had
hitherto adted together so cordially, that it
was to be lamented ahy circumftanees nad
arisen which made the French government
think it anvtfablc to put the negociation in
other hands.
That I received wfth fatisfadlion what
jthey told me •»» t u featiments of the di
rectory, relative to tbtj • negociation, atl j
that I could assure them they were such as
certainly existed in the breast 6f my royal
master.
I then fvggefted to them, whether it
would not be proper to giv% me an official
note on this occasion, since it made a very
marked period in the negociation j and as
thyy perfedtly agreed with me on the pro
priety of this, they sent me that I now en.
close.
I consider this event as so material, that
I do not lose a moment ia dispatching one
of my servants to England, as I have at pre
sent no messenger with-tae. I have the ho
nour to be, &c. ...'•■*•
No. 39. Note from the French plenipo
tentiaries to lord Malmefbury.
The ministers plenipotentiary of the
French republic have the honor to inform
lord Malmefbury, that they have received
by this day's post, a decree of the executive
direftory, fignifying their recall, and the
nomination of citizens Treilhard and Bon
nier to succeed them, and to continue the
negociations entered upon with England.
The minifler for foreign affairs, in fend
ing to the undersigned ministers plenipoten
tiary this decree of the diredlory, of the
22d of this month, orders them to wait the
arrival of their fticceffors. It also direfls
them to inform the minifler plenipotentiary
of his Britannic majefly, that the change of
the negociators does not carry with it any
•change in the disposition of the dire&ory,
with regard to the negociation.
The ministers plenipotentiaries of the
French republic hav the honor to renew to
lord Malmefbi, y wit assurance of their high
consideration.
Lisle, Sept. 11, 1797^
No. 40.-.-Note from lord Malmefbury to
the French plempoteatiaries.
The minifler plenipotentiary of his Bri
tannia majedy has the honor to acknowledge
the receipt of the note which the ministers
plenipotentiary of the French republic have
addressed to him, communicating the deerce
of the executive directory, which fignifies
their recall and the nomination of the min
isters destined to succeed them, and to con
tinue the negociations already commenced.
He receives at the fame time with fatisfac
tion, and will tranfmi't without delay to his
court, the assurance that this change of the
negociators does not bring with itaiiychange
in the negociation.
Lord Malmefbury, in thanking the mi
nisters plenipotentiary of the French repub
lic for this communication, begs thetn to
be persuaded of his on ac
count ef their departure, and to accept the
assurance of his high consideration.
Lisle, Sept. 12,^797.
No. 41. Extraftof a dispatch from lofd
Malmefbury to lord GrenviL'e, dated Lisle,
17th Sept.l 797.
My L° r d,
fSjThe new French plenipotentivies, Messrs.
Trtilhcrd and Bonnier d'Alco, with their '
principal fccietary, M. Depute* an€ two
private fccretaries, arrivedhere at fivea'clock
A. M. on Wednesday the inft : at e
leveil A. M. they sent M. Derche to ac
ijnaint me with their arrival, and to enquire
4t what hour I would receive their visit ? In
consequence of my faying whenever it was
convenient to them, they came immediate
ly, attended by Messrs. Le Tournenr, Ma
rct, and Colcheri.
On taking"have, M. Le'Tourneur came
forward 1 said to roe, in his name and
that of his colleagues, that they could not
terminate their inijfion without expressing
the fatisfadlion they had felt from the open
ness and candor (Loyaute et Franchise)
With which I had afled durintMhe whole of
the negociation, or take leave of rr.e, with
out expressing their fincereperfonal regret;
that the recolledlic® of my condudi would
always be agreeable to them, and that it had
given me the flrongeft title to their esteem
and good wiflies.
After giving the new plenipotentiaries as
much time as was necaffary to return to
their own house, I sent Mr. Rose to ask at
what hour I might return their visit ? and,
in consequence of their, answer, I went to
them, attended by lord Morpeth and Mr,
Ellis.
I took an opportunity of returning the
compjinjents,M. Le Tourneurhad made me;
a[id I must in j till ice repeat, my lord, what
I have already said, that his conduct and
that of his colleagues has, in every point
which has depended on them, been perfect
ly fair and honorable, and in no instance
contrary to the principles they announced,
and the profeflions they made. It is there
fore impoflible for me not to regret them,
and not to consider the change of negocia
tors at least as a very unpleasant, if riot a
very Unfortunate incident.
No. 42. Copy of a dispatch from lord
Malmefbury to lord Grenville, dated Lisle,
17th Sept. 2797.
My Lord,
I shall endeavor in this dispatch to give
yourlordfhip as circumftancial an account as
my memory will allow mc to do, of what
has passed in the two conferences I have held
with the new French plenipotentiaries.
In that of Friday the 14th, after com
municating to me the arrete of the diredlo
ry appointing them to succeed Messieurs Le
1 eiurnenr and Maret, and empowering them
to continue the negociation with me, one of
them making the strongest assuran
ces of the sincere desire entertained by the
duedlory for Deace. He observed, that if
this desire hid manifefted itfelf so ftrengly
at a moment when the two great authorities
of the country were at variance, it must
naturally become stranger and be exerted
with more effedt when all spirit of division
wag suppressed, and when the government
was flresgthened by the perfedt concord
which now reigns between all its branches :
that the firft aud 010 ft material point to be
ascertained in every negociation was the ex
teut of the fnlf powers with which the, ne
gociators are vetted : that Ifhould find theirs
to be very ample ; and that, -as it was ne
cefiaryto the
iirfne fliould be equally so, they had it in
command to present a note, the obje*ft of
which was to inquire, whether I was au
thorised to trea* on the principle of a gen
eral restitution of .every poffeflion remaining
in his majesty's basds, not only belonging
to them, but to then* allies ; that I was not
I unacquainted with their laws and with their
treaties ; that a great tountry could not on
any occasion aft in contradiction to them ;
and that, aware as I muftbe df this, I could
not but expeA the queftioii contained in the
note, neither could I consider the reguifi
tion of an explicit atifwer, previous to en
tering upon the negociation, asarifingfrom
any other motive than that of themoft er
-1 feft wish, onthe part of the dire&ory, lo
bring it to a fuccefsful, and, above nil, to
a fpeedyCQiiclufion. .
I replied, that if after what I heard I
could allow myfelf to hope for such an e
vent as he seemed to think or give
any credit to the pacific diipofitions he
announced on the part of the French Gov
ernment, fiich hope must arise solely from
the confidence I might place in his alluran
ces, fincib the measure itfelf now adopted
by the Dire&ory was certainly calculated
to make a diredtlv contrary irr.preflion on
my mind : that I could not conceal from
him, that far from expecting such a questi
on, its being now put surprized me l.;yond
meafnrc, aad still more so, when from his
comment upon it I v.as to infer, that he
withed me to consider it as tending to pro
mote a speedy pacification ; that the ques
tion expressed in the note he had delivered
(for he had given it to me, and I had read
it over as he ended his speech) was word for
word the fame as that put to me by his pre
decessors so long ago as the 14th of July ;
that on the 15th I had, from my own au
thority, given an answer, and that this an
swer I confirmed fully and diftin&i'y by or
der ,<?f my court 011 the 24th July ; that
these notes had to the present hour remain
ed unnoticed, and a delay of two montlis
had occurred ; that the re'afons afligned for
this delay were, as I was repeatedly told, a
decided refolntion on the part of the French
government to listen to the reasonable pro- |
pofals made by his majefly , but that bein;;
bound by their engagements with the court
of Madri(J*ind the Batavian republic, and
i\ifhing to treat their allies with due consi
deration, they were desirous of confuhing
with them previous to any positive declara
tion, and obiaining from them a voluntary
rtleafe from those engagements,
to enable the French plenipotentiaries here
to admit the balls Jiis majesty had eftablifh
cd, and to groundon it all future discussions
which might arise in the ceurfe of the ne
gociation ; that if he had read over the pa
pers left, undoubtedly in his poffeflion by
Mi predecessors, he would find what I ftate'j
to be ftridlly true ; and that of course it
coft'.d not be difficult to accountlfor my sur
prize, when, after being told that he and
i ilia colleague were to take up tlie iiegocia
tion prccifely where they found :'t, now be
came) evident that it was to be Hung bsck
to the very point from which we lfarted,
and flung back in-a j*ay which ftemed to
threaten a conclusion very different from
that he foretold
(To be continued.)
Xlje
Delphi a,
Wr.DKE .SDAY• EVEMING, JANUARY ,o. *
ExtraS of a letter from a gentleman in Con
neciicut, 10 his friend in this City,
• 1> V ri n y B U EING ' "
is in his hand shall thoroughly nn™. U'
floor," society (hall be t'irfed with
mixture of charafter. But it i s a tribute
which vice pays to virtue, that rascal* had
rather co-habit with honest men than with
draw to forae spot of earth by themselves
and be tormented by their own principles.'
The old divines had an idea that Hell
would be made up of the melted mass of
conflagrated worlds. But this idea does
not excite half the ,' n my mind '
with that of nine hundred and fifty millions
of men corrupt, anarchical, " hateful and
hating one another," turned loose from re
ligious' and civil rettraint, and blended in
one fiery democracy. If malice could vent
itfelf in prayer, the a&ual lbte of our ene
mies, the French, exceeds its hft supreme
ejaculation.
| * I ha**, not the least doubt ,that'the pro
phecies are now fulfilling eminently ; but
human happiness will nbt be encreafed until
all the present a&or: of the Farce of Innova
tion are rotted and forgotten. To amelio
rate the state of society by Ueftroying ty
ranny and fupcrftition is a benevolent wi(h.
I have liftVned to, and repeated, thofe/jiry
tales rr.yfelf—lt is a dream ! The virtue that
is produced by a radical change of the hu
man heart is the true thermometer of political
happ'mefs. He that has reformed one solita
ry individual of his vices, and taught him
felf-government has doue more good than he
that has Tom Pained and GodlivinitizeJ a
nation.
Our rulers look vqjlly dignified in some
of their debates ; especially when Mr ,
rises with all the rights of the people on his
(houlders. The beast was right—he is not
to be caught with cake and tW/z£—he .in
carnivorous by nature— had lie been called
'to lick blood spilt by a Revolutionary tribu
nal, and to pick the carcases of the honejl
friends of this country, he would have fnuffd,
and growl'd compliaiKt."
For the Gazette of the United States.
Reflections on Monroe's "View."
No. VI.
. I have fully shewn from the letters of the Ex -
e utive.tbat Mr. Monroe was dire>sled re com
plain of and remonstrate aga.nft the decree de
rogitory of the treaty of amity and commerce,
and from hie awn communication that be repre
sented to tbe French republic that he was tot
inftruiSed tocempliin of that decree!
I Mhvm .T3 r >i ii | fBS* MX Monroe,
dilregarding the fektimenU of the Frdident, tnd
unmindful 6f the honor and lnterefts of his
country, declared frequently, to the committee
of public fafety, that the government and the
people of the United Stats would bear with a
d:parture fxom thet:eaty,riot«yily wiihpariente,
but with pleasure, if on experience France
ihould tind it for her intcreiL 1 have cited the
reprimand he received for thel'e instances of
mifconuucl, which i?i my bumblejudgm-nt was
far fron adequate to the offifoce. Wllat of
fence couid be greater than unauthoj-ifedly to
dispense with a treaty, a;itj tct l'urrei..der she com
merce of his_eo>!,trA' tthe dilcretion of a fo
reign power ? 'vVhar <«ff,- tl ce c.iuld be greater
than to communicate jtKji to eflablifa 'an opin
ion in the French republic, that whatever it
might tnink proper to t;> our coiariier*fe,
would be borne with, pieafure, if it conduced to
the advanl age of France?
I have shewn too tint this opinion of the
Yrench, of our preference of their interefls to
"ftown, which our aiiniiic inculcated, and
whaH i'p many gazettes antl so many occurrences
hsvfc Csiitribwed !o confirm, is the true source
ot the iMilts and injuries which, our citizens are
now, and fyr.a long 'icne have been fuffering.
!i these things have been denuipftrated, and I
ihink the.docijjiients. i+udeniibly evince them,
what iireps fabli injuries tiave not Ms. Mouree
aiid the French faction done to America? Let
t«e dlfmifs this pawifql I'ubjeifi hy calfitfg the at
t»rninn itiaffifchirfft dfthe ex
ininiflier,paciicii!.}rly f ofiafleaWe.fnc itl want of
candour,. He fays thai a lev days after the let
ter of reprimand, another lct.!"r| on the rth of
ot December »i, written to him, which feemcd
to JotjtaWln apology for the harlh la n'guage of
the former. of the "rth December,
■doe* not i elate to any matter complained of in
that ot the «i. 4t ac-jtnerswlcdpes theretelbt of
hat .letters of the lath and i?th AugUfi.-aad ob
lerves oil the contents of i U-le letters, neiiher of
which firnifneti any caule of ccm.-ijiu:. For
further fatisfsdVion, let the reader peru.fe the
letter itfelf — (page 125 ).
The ;d initancu ot trtifconduii which t pro
posed for cordideri'ion was, that Mr. Monroe
reprefent.eil in pnfitive ferrns to the committee
of publjc f»fety, that Mr. Jay's mifTifin w:.& lim
itci to two ohjefls Oniy : a cor.ipen(a:',cn for
fpoliatiqns, and a fjtrendsr of (he po(U, whic4>
i eprelcntation i. no: wi-tnlc !by ! i.. inftniC;
tions. '1 he Secretary of State t:r»es tUa lan
guage. " W e mean to cctnioue inejaine line,
.of contlu£l in future ; andtu reteovcafaealu*.-
I'y with lefpeato ; #y ', ~.in:.,n to Lnndoa,
you may lay,/hat he i, potnively IWbUUrn »,>
weaken the engagenier.ts hel wecjj ihif coußti*\
apd France, it is not improbable that y: u wiH
be o'>J:g-:d to' encounter 'on thiil.ead r«tfpicien«
0: Vi: lots kinds : I,ut y.ni may declare the m«-
tivts of that mi/pert t-j be to obt.rn immediate
eamp'.iijtuten for ctr plundered pr~fiertr, and ref
''W;M tps a)■ No one can
be ar a io.s to underhand these expressions ;
n,.r can it bedotilucj tint the motives of the
miHim to London, were such as are her; de
elare l. If rhe po'h liid been rn our p ifleffinn,
and I. no-lpolbtionion our Trommerce liadh«en
com Tinted, our crHnvjUiiita affamfl Bri
tain on other accounts vvod*k,vr remained to
be ae-otiateiby the very able.miaifttr refirter-t
at London. But the fp..;i»;ionr,Ai;d the dctea
tion ofthe polls, w.te c\iU too iicavv .tnv Ion: -
er. j and before .1,1 a,.,, ra | v .as mans
ty tVe God of f,a tl--, a fttfeihn ,• ad Ijft apoeji
w»s to be made to the jnliire and fJtti of
the Bntift nation. While theft-prioMaaUv:;-
ters fimuld bc,noder adjnftnwi-t,- it r.'.ts reafo.-a- 1
b!e ti expea allthofe of a fe-juadtry tci-.ieru-rnfrwfrnld also be conulired, and that one treaty c
would comprehend all the fuhjiffi which were (
ifl difference between the rwo n-iioni. A» i; •
•wasonly by a treaty, that difference! could "J,
be compramifed, and as oac of our greatefi
complaints against Great-Britain had eonrtantly r
been that Ihs refufed to make a commercial t'rea- c
ty with us, and as future injuries to our iom- k
merce would be moA finely prevented hv a rrea- j f
ly of commerce, it" followed of course that a | 0
commercial treaty on good terms would be very j
acceptable to as, if it could be obtained from
that nation. How tlrange then mull it appear,
that Mr. Monroe did not rightly represent Mr.
Jay's miflion, and tn»t he Ihould never have us- a
ed the words pr the fubflance of the words of J
the Secretary of State, though he purposely met e
the committee to address therA on this fubjefl. ,
What palled between him and the committee
deserves particular notice. .
In his letter dated the id of December 'i 794,
to Secretary Randolph, he mentions that he had '
fought and obtained an interview with the diplo
matic members of the cornmittee for the pur- 1
pose of removing unfavourable suspicions which ,
wer* entertained concerning the million to Lon - |
Jon. What parted at this rneetiag relative to
this >jeA, is Hated by him in the following
words: 41 By another I was alked whether Mr.
Jay was still in London, and whether he ill
tended to come over to Paris, as had been pub ]
lilhed in an Erglifll paper. This was the fuf- 1
picion I wifh?d t9 eemhat and remove, though , |
indeed I did not expeil it weald have been a- (
vowed i*i ft abrupt a manner ; I replied I could ■
not tell vihetbtr he bad returned or ntt ; but
that it was in the Eng- •'
ii!h paper fhouid be true, as he was sent to Eng-
Unt*. upon an especial business only, to demand 1
reparation far injuries, aiidjo which his autho
rity was -DriiSfiy limiWJ"—(page 90). Ittf his
pamphlet lae informs the public, that he replied
" the report could not be true, finre Mr. Jay
vas sent to England upon fpefitl bufiuefe only,
t» demand compensation for the depredations
ft* eUr trade, and the far render of the luejlern
pofis, to which his authority was ftritflly limit
ed." The variance between the two statements
Hay not be deemed material ; but if it be, and
if the latter was the purport of Mr. Monroe's
icprefentation, as Mr. Pucviance certifies, it fol
lows that our minister has been guilty of two
tiifreprefentatiojis: rft, a misrepresentation to
the committee of the powers of Mi . Jay being
ftri<3ly limited to spoliations and the polts ;
and idly, a misrepresentation to the executive of
the misrepresentation he made to the committee.
Jt is tru?, that Mr. Monroe admits in his pub
lication, that th« nature and object of Mr. Jay's
jwiffion to England had been inifrepreliyited
through him to the French government —(p 29 J
I aik whole fault was this ? Had be adverted to
the words of Secretary Randolph, and conform
ed to them or to their meaning, he would not
have b;an guilty of misrepresenting to the com
mittee, that Air, Jay's powers were limited fo'.e
ly and cxclufjvely to spoliations on aur com
merce and the detention of our ports. All that
Sueretaiy Randolph said to minister Monroe
was, that Mr. Jay was reftraioed from contra
vening any former treaties with other nations,
and the motives of the million were ts obtain
enmpenfation for spoliations and a furrendcr of
the ports. If the minister had thus represented
the million, he would have been eorredl; but he
inflitutes another language, and very different
ideas. He fays " Mr. Jay was sent to England
upon an especial business only, to demand repa
ration for injuries, and t» <which hit authority
•waj ftriltly limited." Having thus misrepre
sented this matter to the committee, he most
audaciously undertakes to east the blame of it
on the Executive of the United States ; as if the
executive could supply him with i intelligence of
mind Or refllhi'l, in rate
were wanting. The words of Srcrefary Ran
dolph were-plam, open and artless.
One'would expef! that Mr. Monroe would
'have gone t» the conference which the commit
tee granted to him, well prepared upon the t..pic
which he intended to introduce, and that his in
ftrudlions on that were thoroughly uaderftood.
Yet the reverse appears to have been the cafe,
and it was on this occasion that the misrepre
sentation was made. It may be asked, what
Ihould he have said ? I answer, he ftoutd have
used the words of Secretary Randolph ; he
Blight have ad.ied, that his country, the United
States of America, having received many inju
ries from Great-Britain, had sent a« envoy to
demand fktisfaDion and to prevent complaints,
by placing the intrrtourfe between the two na
tions upon the liablejjrincip'es of justice and be
nevolence, and that it was the earntfl desire of
America to live in peace and harmony with all
the nationi of the earth. Moll efepacially, he
Ihould not have l'o miftaled the iniffien, as to lay
a certain foundation for the futi:re difappoint
mcnt and difctmtents of the French republic, in
cafe it succeeded. SCIP'IQ.
' '
C O N G R ESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
TUESDAY JANUARY 9.
Mr. Livingfton, from the Committee of
Commerce and Manufa&ures, to whom was
committed the amendments of the Senate to
the bill for the relief of North and Vefey,
reported it, as the opinion of the commit
tee, that they ought to be agreed to, and
the report was concurred in.
Mr. D. Foftei, from thecornmittee of
Claims, reportad a bill directing the Secre
tary of War to place certain persons on the
pension lift, which was twice read and com
mitted for to-morrow.
Mr. Gal'atin presented a petition from
Patrick Cammony, and Mr. FintJley one
from George Meerhoufe, soldiers in the
late war, for compensation. Referred to
,the committee of Claims.
Mr. Dennis proposed the following resol
ution for the adoption of the House :
" Resolved that th« committee of Ways
and Means be dire&ed to require whether
any, and if any, what alterations are neces
sary in the feverdl afts impofmg a duty on
Spirits distilled within the United States,
and on Hills so far as relates to the entry ot
Stills, and that they be authorized to re
port by bill or otherwise."—Agreed.
Mr. W. Claiborne called for the order of
tlje day on the report on the petition and
remonltrance of the LcgiflatureoPTennelTee
which being agreed to, the House resolved
into a committee of the whole on the
fubjeft, Mr. Dent in (he chair, and the re
port having been read, the following resolu
tion was under confederation :
" Resolved, that the sum of
dollars be appropriated for the relief
offuch citizens of the ita,te of Tennessee as
have rights to lands within the said Hate, by ,
virtue of the cefiion out of the state of North ;
Carolina, and have made a&ual settlements
thereon, and who have bsen the ;
poiTefliou of the said lands by the optrafion
of the a<s for reguJivng the intercourse witk at
the Indian tribes. The said sum to btf sub- tc
jest to the order ofthe of the Use
nited States, to be expended under his di- r.<
re&ton, either in extinguilhing the Indian in
claim to the above described lands, in cafe tl
he shall deem it expedient to hold a treaty o]
j for that pnrpofe, or tie disposed of in such te
| other manner as he shall deera best ealcula- n<
ted to afford the perfon3 herein defcriked a in
temporary relief." h
Mr. W. Claibortie moved to strike out fe
all the words of the refolntion after the word tl
for in the second line, and to insert " the in
extinftion of the Indian claim ' to all or any
part of the land within the limits of the state bi
ofTenneffee, in cafe the President ofthe w
United States shall think it expedient to hold T
a Treaty for that purpose." d(
Mr. Venable hoped this motion would pi
■ not be agreed to, and that the mover of rt la
would not persist in it, as it might hazard hi
the relief proposed to be given to the diftref- ra
ed citizens of Tennessee. He did not believe h:
the House would consent to appropriate so ri
. large a sum as would be necessary to accom- tc
plifh the objeft contemplated by his amend- tc
■ tnent. He was disposed to afford relief to ai
1 the persons whose cases had been presented al
| to th« House, as he thought they had d
. hardly and unjustly used ; but he was not cl
. .disposed to go farther at present. ei
Mr. M'Do well seconded the motion, be- I;
1 cause, if it were necessary t<j hold a treaty tl
• with t%e Indians at all, the expence might t;
J not probably be much increased, by extend- fl
ing it to other obje&s. He wished, there- h
( fqre, that the Commissioners employed to f(
„ negociate a treaty, fhouid have it in their c
1 power, if they found their Indians disposed si
- to enter upon the business, to treat with res- ii
\ pe£t to other lands in which many citizens w
of Tennessee, of North and South Carolina, g
and other states, were deeply interested t
3 whose lands, which many of them had earn
-3 ed by their hard Services in the war, lay in r
I that Stjte, and the United States had step- f
; ped in, by the late treaty, and said they fl
fhouid not enjoy theTn. He was clear, from t
the articles of confederation, and from the r
laws of the United States, that thefepeo
j pie were entitled to Justice, a# well as those r
J who had been drive* by violence from the c
0 possession of their property. ii
Mr. Rutledge was of opinion that uncon- c
' neAed with the fituatien of the unhappy t
people who had been driven from their pof- o
. feflions, be thonght this motion perfeftly t
t proper. He formed this opinion from a re- f
e fcrence to th© journals of the house. He I
- had been induced, from application* l made fl
'» to him by citizens holding land in that coun- e
try, to examine into this fubjed). In look- ii
ing over the afts of North-Carolina, in 1783 t
e he found that state opened a land office for n
t the redemption of certain daims for piilita- a
d ry and other services, by grants of hnd in f
'• their territory south weft of the Ohio.—- t
Afterwards, when N. Carolina became One c
£ of the United States, she made a grant of c
lt this territory to the United States, vfpon c
e certain conditions, one of which was, that f
if the grant 3 already made fhouid not be alter- ]
r e 3 nr SmjimWil. and yet. by the treary of 1
'* Holflon, th« United States had,'in violati- '1
on of this contrast,- guaranteed this land i
t _ to the Cherokee Indians. If this were not ]
c a correft flatement, he begged to be cor- t
i- reeled ; and if it were, it was a direst vi- i
I. olation of the treaty with North-Carolina, f
In private life, there would be a remedy at
law for such a departure from contrafl ■} \
, e but in this cafe, there was no remedy, but c
e by appealing to the justice of the Legislature i
d of the Union. This appeal had been made I
i- and he hoped it would not be in vain. The i
0 people of Tennessee fay, either restore us to I
•' the situation in which we were, or return i
to us our money with interest. What had i
Jj- been the proceedicgs of Congress on this i
|| business ? The House of Representatives 1
ie had formerly agreed that the certificates of i
y the persons entitled to these lands fhouid be i
•' funded, and interest allowed uptjn them, and 1
IB that hereafter when a treaty Ihould be made i
with, the Indians, they might receive their
lands on re-paying their money. Another ;
House of Representatives came to a similar
J, resolution, but the Senate not conccurring,
the business fell to the ground. But the
gentleman from Virginia said this was an
jf improper time to go into the business,
ls He did not think so. If a treaty were to
o be held, he thought it ought to be extend-
r } ed to all the owners'of land in this situation,
as well as to that held by adlual settlers.
d The difference of expence to the United
States would be a mere bagatelle ; besides,
jf government would be repaid with usurious
interest by the sale of the land which would
, c be obtained by a general treaty ; whereas
a- if this were not the cafe, the expence of
treaty would be loft. And if this caurfe
m were not taken, the persons v.'ho had a pro
ie perty in this land would never fail to call u
ie pon C°ngrefs until their complaints were
;o redressed.
Mr. Otis was not disposed to go into the
ii, merits of the claims which had been advo
cated by his fiiend from S. Carolina. He
n was one ps the committee who made the
;r report, and had no objection to its b<"ing
f- now agreed to, though he thought it would
>n be more advifeable to postpone the business
s, so. - a few days, as he was informed that the
jf Frefident of the United States had nomina
e - fed Commissioners for the holding of a trea
ty with the Indians for the
sf ofthe Indian claim to the lands in question,
id , which nomination was before the Senate,
;e I and would ptobably soon be agreed to ; and
d : when the house was acquainted Jwith the
ie powers given to these commissioners, they
j. i would know better how to adt in the bufi- j
j. ) ness. Besides he thought it improper to
I do any thing which fhouid appear like an
i interference with business that belonged to ;
rf the Executive Department. He thought,
as therefore, the original report ought to be
v agreed to, or that the comfliitte fhouid rife,
h and afic leave to fit again.
t3 Mr. Macon was glad to hear that thePre
ie fident had nominated commissioners for hold
in ! ing a treaty with the Indians on this fubjeft;
*
and he hoped the committee would proceed j
to appropriate money to enable him to ef- , n
feft the bulia-fs. This he said, would be n
no new thing, and it would he going hand t
in hand with the President, and enable him c
the faoner to carry his benevolent views into w
operation. Jn 1793, congress appropria- I n
tid a sum of money fur treating with the- ' t
north wellern Indians, before they had any ! g
intimation from the Preltdent on the fubjc£fc. q
He thought the amendmertt proposed pre- 1'
ferable to the resolution reported, as it left it
the President to treat as he thought proper C
in'the bnfinefs. F
Mr. Nicholas did not fee much difference ri
betwixt the refolutioas. The one reported a
was advisory, as well as the amendment, al
The fit-ft, indeed, went on to fay the Presi
dent might afford temporary relief to the J
persons who had been removed from their
lands ; but if it were thought improper, as
he thought it was, to rccommsflfci a tempo
rary relief to be given to these persons who
had been driven from their property, it was
right to omit that part of it. He thought
to objeft to the amendment as being an in
terference with the executive authority, was n
an unauthorized refinement. It was not tl
asked, nor expefted, that money (hould be
distributed amongst these people by way of j
charity ; they were deprived of their prop- y
erty, aid they claimed a restoration of it.
If the proposed resolution were agreed to, ?
the President would still be at perfect liber
ty to atS as he pleased. Indeed, the Pre- 0
lldent having appointed commiflionery for "
holding a treaty, it would be a£ting-in con- y
formity with him thus to aft. Mr. N. con- g
cltfded by reminding the house of the con- n
: fequeiices which might arise from negleft- "
• ing to attehd to tl< just claims of persons
who were so far removed from the feac of i I:
, government, and who had it in their power I!
■ to do feiious mifchief to the United States. V
The chairman said, on recurring to the
1 rules of the house, he found the amendment j
■ proposed was not in order, as it was a sub
■ ftitute for the original motion. Th*- quef
-1 tion was, therefore, upon the resolution as
reported. •
Mr. Goodrich hoped the committee would
: rife, in order that the report might be re- (
committed, The resolution reported had
in view the temporary relief of the fufferings 1
of the people who had been driven from (
■ their lands, and to empower the President j
- of the United States, at his diferetion, to tx
' tinguifh the Indian title ; but the member '
. frora Tennessee, who must be supposed tobe '
: best acquainted with the intercft of his con- .
: ftituents, had now'brought forward a more J
- extensive proportion, which embraced the '
- idea of a» extiaguifhment of the Indian ti
; tie to all the land in Tennessee. He did '
r not think the committee were ready to
- adopt so general a proposition, without
1 farther information. Besides, he thought !
• the gronnd of this business was materially |
: changed by the President's having named
f comraiffioners to hold a treaty with the In
1' diaris; he thought it would be best, there
t fore, to wait for a communication from the
- President on the fubjeft, before the cora
s mittee proceeded further. He would not I
- havemade thts-mcitTwe, if h« had thought it |
1 would occasion a delay injurious' to the
t petitioners; but as the gentleman from Ten
- neffee hirafelf had given up the idea of afford- !
- ing temporary relief, he trusted a delay of
. few days could have no bad effefts.
t Mr. W. Claiborne hoped the committee !
i would not rife. The chairmap having deci
t ded his amendment to be out oif order, the j
e reason for making the motion no longer exi- !
s fted, as there was no new proposition before j
e the house ; the proposition which was now j
0 before the committee had been pending five !
a vveeks—a proposition which, lie was perfua- j
d ded, every member in the house must be well!
s acquainted with ; since not to think so would
s be to think them indifferent to the claims
f of their fellowcitizens, whom the represented
e equally with himfelf who came there by their
3 fuffrages. If his amendment had not been
e declared out of order, he (hould have deli
r vered some ftntiments upon it, which would
r have lhe.ws that he did not intend to bring
.r the fubjeft before the house by surprize, but
that he was aftuated by the most honourable
e motives ;by a wifti to do justice Bot only
n to the persons whose distressed situation had
- been laid before the committee, but to all
0 those citizens of North Carolina, Tennessee
1- and other parts of the United States, who
1, had a legal right to land which, by the trea
ty of Holfton, had been ceded to the In
d dians. But by the dccifion of the Chutr
>, man he was prevented from doing this, and
is obliged to confine his obfervalion to the
d motion for the cohimittee to rife. He
is trusted this motion would be disagreed to.
>f The neceflities of the people c ailing for re
re lief were pressing. For months pail distress
1- had reigned on the frontier of Tennessee,
1- and several hundred families,, who, before an
e armed forcedrove tbemoff, were in thepeactv
ful possession of their land, and enjoying, iu
ie happy fufficiency, the fruits of their own
v industry ; but they hard been forced, at this
e inclement season, to seek an asylum wher
te ever they could find it—some had been so
g fortunate as to get into house.3, but the
Id greater part had been obliged to take Ihel
fs ter in the woods, with their wives and lit
te tie ones. Where was humanity if that
a- House were disposed to procrastinate a de
-- cifion? He (hould fay that virtue had loft
it its customary feeling, if it ware not intcrefted
1, in behalf of these citizen*. The committee
had heard, from a refpeftable quarter, that
id the President of the United States had taken
ie up this business. He hoped the informa
y tion was correft ; if so, it redounded to the
i- j honour of our Chief Magistrate, and (hewed j
:o that he felt for the diftreffesof thefecitizens
in and since he proposed to negeciate a treaty
to ; with the Indians, the sooner an appropria
t, tion was made, the sooner would the grie
>e vances complained of be removed he hoped
e, therefore, the gentleman would withdraw
hs motion. With refpeft to his proposition
e- which baabcen|dcclared outoforder,he could
d- if he (hould fee proper, bring it forward
I; separately.
The debate on t'%" question for trie eum
tnittee to rife occupied the whole of the rr
mainder of th?diy ; bat as the rperits of *
the question were, according td.oider, pre- ?
eluded by it from difcuflion (though they J
were nof alwsys kept out of tightj we do .1
not think it necessary to go into a detail of
the arguments which were ufed.tbr and a
gainst the motion. The advocates of the
question were Messrs. N. Smith, Bfookes,
11. Williams, I. Parker, and Otis; against
it, Messrs. Veiiable, M'Dowell, Nicholas, S
Gallatin, Macou, R. Williams, Harper and hi
Rutledge. At length the motion was car
ried without a• division ; and on leave being
asked to fit a-Min, afftr fo«ie debate, it was ' a
.•• . V
also granted without a division. 11
Aciourned. c<
tl
%\yt <sa3cm* P
PHILADELPHIA, c ;
WEDNESDAY EVENING, "JANUARY rc. \
January gth, 1795. C(
At a meeting of the Stockholder ot the Bask of
North-.) meri< a, held yclt?rday, the following Gen
tlemen were eleSed Direftots for the en'uin» yeat — C
t John Nixoii, Thimasjuzfimoni. jofi.h Hewes,
Mordecai Lewis, Joseph Swtl'l, George Latimer,
John Morton, Benjamin fuller, Robert Wain,
.Vhets Fiiher, Williain Smith, Richard Runrile.
And |ttis day, John Nixon, Efqutre, was chofea at
Pr elided'. ei
she Philadelphia Soci-iy for alleviating the miseries w
of Public Priions, on M'xwlay evening iail, tnj Bth
iqflaot, elefled the following officeri Tor the picient p
year. it
Dr. William White, President: I> Samuel Ma- r
gaw, Dr. William Rogers, V tci-Pi. fideuu ; 1
niin W. Morris, Treasurer ; Caleb Lownea, Dr. w
muel P. Giifitu, Secretaries. f;
ACTING COMMITTEE* | 3
Cha'les Marlhall, Ct.riHopher Ms-thall, Thomas
Wairifon, Thomas Mortis, Ifiac Pamlh, Jolepli Ic
Kudd, Ebenezsr Large, Benjamin Thaw, Thomas a
Willar, William Garngues. (J
_ a
At a meeting of the Stockholders in the J
Infurancc Company of North-America on fj
the 9th inft, the following gentlemen were p
chosen Direftors for the ensuing year. c
Joseph Ball, Andrew Bayard, Thomas
Bell, Peter Blight, Samuel Blodget, Da- 0
vid H. Conyngham, John Craig, William
Cramond, James Crawford, John Don- t
naldfon, James C. Fiiher, Thomas W. Fran- a
cis,' John Leamy, Magnets Miller, Thomas (
L. Moore, Philip Nicklin, James Oldden, c
Charles Pettit, Robert Ralfton, William a
Read, William Sanfo®, Robert Smith, Sa- r
muel Sterett, John Vaughan, Francis We J, c
And at a meeting of the Board, Joseph (
Ball, Esq. was chosen President, and Eben- ,
ezer Hazard, Secretary. „ 1
Philadelphia DiJptnfarj, Jan. lji, 1798. t
At a meting of the contributors held this day, <
the following persons were duly elected ma- .
: nageri for the present year, viz. 1
William White, George Fox,
Henry Hill, Robert Smith, t
Samuel Pleafants, Godfrey Haga,
Lawrence Seckel, John Kaigh.n, I
Henry Helmuth, Robert Ralfton,
Robert Blackwell, Samuel P. Griffits.
January sth, 1798.
At a meeting ef the managers of the Difpenfi
ry, held this day, the following officers were ■
J eletSled, viz. 1
Attending Physicians and Surgeons. I
' Doiftor John Porter, John Redrtan Cox,
James Reynolds Wiliam Bache,
Adam Sybert, Franris Bowes Sayre, .
Consulting Pbyficianf and Surgeans.
; Doflor William Shipped, jun.
! A'iatn Kuhn,
Benjamin Rufli,
| Thomas Parke.
Treasurer—John Clifford,
Apothecary—Knflel Parke.
| Flour was feventeeu dollars, and beef
eighteen at Capc'Nichola Mole, Dee. 16.
011 the 16th of Oftober, several of the
people called Quakers, mentioned in this
Gazette sometime ago, as having been con
fined ia York castle (England)' at the .fait
of the Rev. George Markham, for the non
payment of tythes, were discharged from a
long and rigid confinement, agreeably to a
special clause in a late aft of parliament for
the relief ofiufolvent debtors.
Thomas Mum to Thomas Paine.
" Cadi'*, Augnjl 14, 1797.
" Since the m«morable evening oti which ,
I took leave of you at my melancho- !
ly and agaitated life has been a continued fe- j
ries of extraordinary events. I hope to ;
meet you again in a few months.
" Contrary to every expeftation, I am at i
last cured of my numerous wounds. The
direftory have Ihewn me great kindness :
their folieitude for an unfortunate being,
who has been so cruelly oppreflcd, is a balm
of consolation which revives my drooping
' spirits. - The Spaniards detain me as a pri- j
fqnar, under the pretext that I am a Scots- ;
man ; but I have no doubt that the inter*
vention of the direftory of the great republic ;
' will obtain my liberty. Remember me most
affectionately to all my friends, who are the
friends ef liberty and of mankind.
1 " Thomas Muir." |
We are informed that Mr. Muir, was set 1
' at liberty on the j-6th Sept. in consequence j
' of the application of the directory.
.Scot's Chronicle, j
GAZETTE MARINE LIST, j
The Philadelphia, Blifsj was at anchor a-
I bout 3 miles this fide us Brandywine.
: The Harmony, Price, is fafe in Cohan- ,
t fy creek. Captain Price was from Ham- '
\ burg, bound to Cadiz, in ballast, but off
- cape St. Vincents, on the 14th of O&ober, '
: fell in with part of lord St. Vincent's fleet, !
1 and was forbid toattemytenteiing that port, j
s The (hip DiTpatch, Benners, of this port, '
y to weeks from has arrived at '
- Norfolk.
The (hip Four Friends, Glenn, from
d hence has arrived at Amsterdam.
v The ship Louisa, Champlln, from the
n Havanhah, is in the Chcfapeake,
d . The sloop Nabby, Cloufer, of this port,
d . rom Martinico, ha arrived at Newbern, N.
Carolina.
k r t>m.nri, k, .
A>< lV to
] Brig Thomas Pine hiey, %ffcn,*€Hr!«£o:')' f
Schr. Maria, Tate, Oortaives, > •
Sloop Soncrfet, Hifj~ins, G<ii3a!eu'p-'
By this day's Mail.
• ' %*»■.,- -H ~ . ' x . »**
NEW-YORK, Jan da ry 8.
General Sehoyler has refigncd his office
Senator of tlie United States. The Affem.
bly were to take up the matter on tbe 4th.
The Moniteiir contains a Ivtfer from Mi.
lari, the 22d of Sept which Hates
that the French army will be ordlered to re
commence hostilities against the Pope, oc
the following grounds
1. H« lias not obftrvei? pun&tiality is
paying the contributionsh? owes toFrance,
2. He had entered into the late conspira
cy discOvered at P. 4.
\ 3. He has formed an offenfiire treaty with
the Queen of Naples, for the purpose of re
covering Ancona.
4.. Finally, he will not acknowledge thtf
Cisalpine republic.
BOSTON, January 3.
. It is certain that at the daft of the Jaft
accounts from Paris, our extra-commii'fion
ers had not entered into any discussions
whatever, on the fubjedt of their migion,
wfib the ruling powers of *ie French re
public.—They have had, it is true, their
introduction of cefe/nonyto the minirter of
foreign affairs; but have done rib business
with him.—Gen. Pinckney may have a pre
sentiment of the probable fate o? tlie em
bafly ; and from thence may have been anx
ious to provide against contingencies [ but
appearances may be delusive ; and notwith;
standing bis expectations, he may be agree,
ably difappointedj—Should the French a.
dopt Fauchet's advice, and fend'comnaif
fioners to treat in the U lited States, the
presence of our envoys at Paris Would un
questionably be dispensed with.
A gentleman from Cayenne informs us
of the arrival there'of the French citizens
diredted to be transported, by the decree of
September 4th. He saw them several times
and their deportment was melaHcholy tho'
firm. They vv»re allowed to walk for exer
cise within certain limits j but they were
always attended by a guard. On their ar
rival, the commandant of the troops ad
dressed the foldier3 on the event; but instead
of the (houts of " Five la RepuUique," Sec.
which usually fuceeeded harangues this
kind, the foidiers remained silent and fad.
In all the - French papers we have seen,
not one word good, bad, or indiffere*t, ii
said of the United States, their laws, or ru
lers.
The Irilh brigade has arrived toreinforce
tbe gatrifon of Halifax.
Capt. Townfend, of this town, in a let*
ter dated Nov. 12, fays, " I think there is
no danger of a war with us—at leajl before
1 get home."
All the French papers received by the
Rajah are stamped. The devise bears the
figures of "50 cent." A duty equal to
that paid in England 011 ncirfphpcrs.
Above 150,000 dollars, in specie, vrerc
transported yesterday, in waggoirs, from the
branch bank, in this town, to take paffagc
for Algiers, on board the Crescent frigate,
capt. Newman, now lying at Portsmouth.
This ship, it is said, will fail in a few days.
On monday a series of new bills issued
I from the Union Bank.—They are beauti
fully executed, and the water lines in the
paper we think the bed we ever saw.
*" NEW THEATRE.
THIS EVENING,
JANUARY 10,
Will be printed (by particular desire, and for
the iaft time tl>i» season) th- Historical Play of
COLUMBUS ;
Or, a World DifevertJ.
Columbus* - - Mr. Fennel I. t
To rvhich will be a died (for the fcond timt) a
G>and Anacreontic Pantomime Ballet, called,
THE ANIMATED STATUE ;
Or, Triumph of Love.
Box, one Dollar ; Pit, three quarters of a Dol
lar ; and Gallery, half a Dollar.
| $5" Tha doors of the Theatre will open at £ve,
j and the curtain rife precifdy at f« o'clock.
! Place j lor the Boxes to be taken at the Office in
! the front of the Theatre, from 10 till a o'clock,
j and from 10 till 4 on the days of performance.
Tickets to he had at H. and P. •icr.'sboo't.ftore,
No. to Market street, and at tie Office adjoining
the ' heare- VIVAT RES PUBLIC A !
| Loft, or taken away by mistake,
on or about the nth November la{L. from «n baard
the (kip Commerce, Richard Wailleoat, master,
I la ft from I .iverpool, lying at MorrisiS wharf, fee.
end above Drawbridge, one black leather Trunk,
1 coveted wi.h draw matting and corded, maked at
• bottom
•j jy being a trunk of printed Calicoes. If any
. ' S person can give information refneftina: said
J P trunk, they will confer an obligation up.
' j V on the owner.
i No. 6 JOSHUA SUTOuIFT,
No, ioj, Spruee-ftrret.
: » January to. 4t
: i Just Publiftied,
! And to be had at the Book-ftwres of Mefirs. Do»«
son, C.vMpsrci, Yowc and O-imbod,
in T J hila<Utphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Causes and Cure of Remittitfg'or Billitmi
• i Fevers.
J To tviicb is aniemtf,
, " All \BTVftACT opinions and prSflice of
! diffdr.ent authors. Wid ah APPFNDIX, e*hib»
• itiog interesting fj<S» and r fleilionj relative to
' th« Synocbm ißrroidrt, or Yellow PeVer, which
, , lias occsfibned so much diftrefs-and mortality, at
, ; different periods, in fereralof the ftSport towSi
j of the "United States cf AmeJiea.
'< by WILEIAM CURRIE,
' 1 Fellww of the Philadelphia Coll«ge of Phyficiapi,
and Member of the American l'hllofoyhical ->O.
ciety, &C. *
A Quarterly IVleeting
e of the Society for the institution and fiipport as
First Day or Sunday School Society, will Ik; held at
John Ely', school room, in Third, neat Mulberry
» flreet (adjoining the PrtfSyterTan meeting honi'ej
[. at 6 th ; s even'ng, rtk Month loth
QEORGE WILUAMS, ,Wr;,PROPOSALS
FOR
CARRTING THE PUBLIC MAILS
on the following Post Reads will be re
ceived at the General Post Office until
the 14th day of February next inclusive.
PENNSYLVANIA, life.
I. From WiiladelpMd by Wilmington, Newc.if
tic, Cant well's bridge, Duck creric, Dov~r, Fred
erica, Mtlf »rd, CloUghs Dagfa >r«ugh. Trap,
Snowhill, and Acc-.ymic court house to
Nor'h mptcn court haufe three tim 5 a we^k.
April I AVernier 15. Leave Philadelphia ev
ery Tuesday, Thuifday and Saturday at 1 a M,and
arrtiv at Northampton ccnrt houfc on Thr.fday,
.Saturday and Monday at 7* pj* • Returning. Leave
Northampton court house cvejv Friday, Motittoy
and V/tdwt fdayfat % a m, and arrive at Philadel
phia on Monday, Wednesday and Friday by 7 l-«
P M.
November A 5 to April I. Leave Philadelphia ev
ery fulfil ;y, Thursday aud'Saturday at 6 a m,
arrive at Northampton court houlc on FriJay, j
Monday ap>l Wednesday bv 7p m. Returning
LcjVc Northampton court house ev.ry Saturday,
Tuesday and Thursday at 6 a m, and arrive at
VhilDelphi* on Wednesday, Friday a id Monday
by 7fi
VIRGINIA. I
2. From Northampton court house to Nbrfolk
thi .e tunes a w«ek.
April Ito November I$• Leave Northampton
court house every Monday, Wednesday and Fri
\icty pm, and arrive at Norfolk in 24 hours.
A -^turning— L-ive Norfolk every Wednesday, Fri
•uyand vlon.tay a ~*l m, and arrive at Northamp
(g 1 courthouse in twenty four hours.
A r m mitr If ti Afrit t. Leave Northampton
t i U rt house every Tuafday, Thii-fJay and Saturday
at 3 a M t and arrive at Norfolk in 24 hours. Re
turning —Leave Norfolk every Monday, Wcdael- j
day .nufFriday by 4 * m, and arrive at Northamp- 1
ton court honie in 24 hour®.
PRN\'SYLV A;V/A fcf MARYLAND.
3. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, New
port, Chriftnna.Middletown.Warwick andGoerge
towncrofiroadstoChcllerflownthreetimcsa week. ;
Mly Ito November I. Leave Philadelphia every !
Sdnday, Tuesday and Thursday by 9 p m, andar- j
rve at Cheliertown the next days by 8p m. Re
turning—Leave Cheftertown every Monday, Wed
iiiefdiy and Friday by 9 p m, and arrive at Phila- j
tle'phia the next days by 8 p m.
November I to AUj I. Leave Philadelphia eve- ,
ry Monday and Friday by 9 a m, and arrive at
Cheliertown on TucfJay aud Saturday by 4 r m.
Ajurnmg—Leave Cheftertowri every Monday and
Friday by 8 a m, and arrive at Philadelphia on
TuefJay and Saturdey by 4 r m.
MJR.rL.AND.
4. From Cheliertown by Centerville, Eaflon, .
Newmarket, Vienna, Salisbury, Sndwhill andPrin- ;
Ann to Salisbury once a week.
Reeeitfe the mail at Cheliertown every Wedn,ef- ]
(■av at 7 am, arrive at F.afton by 4r m. 'l.eave |
Ballon pnThuifJay by 6a m, arrive at Snowhill ]
011 Friday by I p. m, and at Princels Ann by 6 p.
m. Returning—Leave Princefi Ann on Saturday by .
jo am, arrive at Ballon the next day or Monday .
by; () rsi Leave £a(lpn on Tuesday by B,a m, and ,
arrive at (^hefteftowi: situeday by 4 p m, 1
5. From Harford by Bel-Air to the Black herfe
ones a week. 1
Leave Harford every Tuesday by 10 A M, aild
e-rivc at Black Vjrfe bv 6t> m. Returning—Leave -
Black horse en Wednesday by 6a m, aad arrive it ,
Harford the next Tuesday 9a m. ;
PENNSYLVANIA, MARYLAND and FIR- <
GINIA.
6. From Baltilnorfe by Blackhbrfe to Yorktown 1
Pa. once a week. , <
■ Leave Baltih.ore every Friday by 4 p m, arrive
at B|ackbp»ft on Saturday by 10 a m, and arrive ,
at Yotktowu by 8 rtt. Returning—Leave York- ]
town every Thursday by 7 am, and arrive at Bal- '
timore on Friday nprin. ]
7. From Yorktown by Hanover, Petersburg, (
Ta-ieyton and Fredericktown to Leefburg once a ]
■week.
Leave Torktown every Monday at 8 a m,arrive ,
at Fredericktown on Tu (day by 5p m, andarrive '
at Leefburg on Wednesday by 2r m. Returning—
Leave Leefburg every Friday at booh, and arrive
at Yorktown by 6pm on Sunday.
8. From Ypfl" 0 ?" 1 hy Abbotflown.Gettifburg, '
FairfulJ, Elizabethtown, Willianifport, Martini- |
burg, Winchefler, Stevenlburg and Strafburg to !
Woodftockonce a week.
Leave York to v. li every Sunday by noon, arrive 1
at Martinlburg Tuefdiy by 11 am. Leave 1
Martinfburg on Tuesday noon andarrive at Wood
ftotk 011 Wednesday by 6i> m. Returning—Leave
Wood (lock oil Thursday by 6 a m, arrive at Mar
tinfburg on Friday by Ham, andarrive atYork
towii en Sunday hyn a m.
9. From Pittfburg hy Cannpnfburg, Walhing
ton, Wist Liberty and Wheeling to the month of
Fishing creek once a week (ccntrad for one year
only)
Leave Pittfburg every Friday at 9 a m, and ar
rive at Filhing creak on Sunday at 9 a m. Return;
ing—Leiuyf ifhing creek on Wed«efday at 8 a m,
and arrive at Pittfliurgon Friday at 8 a m.
10. From Walkingtonby Brownsville and Union
to Morgantown once a week.
Leave Union every Friday at 6am, and arrive
at Washington by 6 pm. Leave Walhington on
Saturday at 6 A «t, arrive at Morgantown on Sun
day at 6 pm. Leave Morgantown on Monday at
8 am, andarrive at Union by 3 p m.
11. From Baltimore by Fredericktown, Eliza
bethtown, Greenville and Chamberfburg to Ship
penlburg once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Friday by 11 a m, arrive
at Fredericktown on Saturday by 10 a m, atEli
zabcthrown in the evening, and at Sbippcnfburg
oil Monday by 7p m. Returning—Leave Shippenf
burg every TuifJay at 9a m, arrive at Elizabeth
town at 8 p m , at Fredericktown on Wednesday
noon, and at Baltimore on Thurfd»y by 5 p u.
MARYLAND.
11. From Eliiabethtown by Hancock and Old
town to Cumberland once a week.
Leav«Cuinberland every Saturday by 6 a M.and
arrive at Eliiabethtown on Monday by 8 a m.
Returning—Leave Eliaabethtown every Monday by
10 a m, and arrive at Cumberland on Tuesday by
6 p m.
13. From Baltimore to Annas oliaonce a week.
Leate Baltimore every Monday at 8 am, and
arrive at Annapolis by 5 rm. Returning—Leave
Annapolis every Tuesday at 8 a m, and arrive at
talt!ii»of«by j m.
• 14. From Baltimore by Annapolis, Queen Anns,
Upper Marlborough,Pifcataway,P«rttobacco, 1-
lensireflj, Newport and Chaptico to Leonardtown
once a week
Leave Baltimore every FriJay at 10 a m, arrive
at Annapolis at 5 r m. Annapolis on Sa
turday at 6 a m, arrive at Upper Marlborough
by noon,arrive atPifcataway by 6 p m. & arrive at
Leonardtown every Monday forenoon by 90' clock.
Returning —Leave Leonardtown every Monday at 3
r m, arrive at Pifcataway nil Tticfday by (re m
arrive at Upper Marlborough on Wednesday by
Ham, andarrive at Annapolis by 6 r .m. Leave
Annapolis on Thursday by 7 a m, and arrive at
Baltimore by3r m.
I { Froai Annapolis by Lower Marlborough,
Huntington and Calvert co»rt house to 3t. Leon
ard* iJncc a week.
Leave Aunapo!i« every Saturday at 9 a m, and
arrive»t St. Leonards en Monday by 3p m- R<-
t ur : m g Leave St. Leonards every Monday at 4
r u, and arrive at Annapolis the next Saturday by
6 A M.
16. From Bladtrfturg by Upp-.r Marlborough,
m ; ,Xct i:< h- Lower SlvrYnar">: Ben
n dicl anU JharLjrteSiill to v „:.j;>tico o.K<a week
Bt.»'ienlbirgi»?ry >atard»ya: 9 a m, ar
rive Jt Upper :««1 Iburauih by 1100..and a! Lo.ver
Manboroughoii Mondayby 5 p m, &at Cluprico
>0 ny 6V M. Returning—l.eaveUiapticr,.very I'hu'l
- day at 6. am, and arrive at BlaJeiifburg oa S»tur
day at 6 a u.
til 17 Fioni '>y Montgomery court
house to Frederick-own oiiec a weok.
Liave Georgetown every Friday i>y '• A "• ana
arriveat Predericktown by"s r«- Remrmnij
Lrave Fredericktown every Thursday Hy 5 am,
and arrive at Georgetown by 6 p m.
J- VIRGINIA.
?. 18. From Woodllock by Newmarket, Roeking
,o hat> court house, Staunton. Lexington and Fiiical
tle to Big Lick once a week.
v * Leave Woodfro. Thurfday by o am, ar
rive at Staunton on Fri.'ay at IP «• Leave St.-.un
y. ton every Friday at i p», arrive at Big Lick 00
re Sunday bv II a m. Returning—Leave Big Lrck
'X on Sunday by 1p m, arrive Hi Staunton every I uel
day by H am. I cave Stauntotn by II o dock
"* )n002) and arrive at Woodllock on Wednesday by
i- 5 10. Fromßigi.ickby Montgomery courthouse |
"• and Wythe eouit house to Abingdon once a week.
1, 1 Leave Big Lick every Sunday at 1p m, arrive
- at Wythe'eourt houl'e on Tuesday by 2 r at, and at
U Abingdon on Wednesday by 6 I'M. Returning— (
11 Lcava Abjigdon every Thursday by 6a m, arrive
y at Wythe court house on Friday by a pm, and ar- l
! rive at Big Lick on Sunday bv 11 a m. ,
XENNESSEE.
k ao . From Abiiigdan, Vir. by Jonrfborough
Greenville, Moffat's ilore and jeffcrfou court houle
11 toKnoxvilie once a week. I
Leave rthingdo* every Thursday by 6 a m, ar
'• rive at Moffats llore on Saturday by 8 a m. Leave
" Moffits'by 9am, and arrive at Knoxville on Suu
• day by 10 am. Returning—Leave KooxvtUe eve
ry Sunday by 1 P m, arrive at Moffats on Monday
1 by 3p m. Leavo Moffats en Monday at 4p m,
1 and arrive at Abingdon 011 Wednesday by 7p m,
VIRGINIA.
' j at. From Wincheller by Romney to Moorfields
" once a week.
Leave Winchefte;every Thursday at 6 a M,and
J arrive at Moorfield »n Friday by 6P M. Return
- i D g—Leave Moorfield every Saturday at 8 a M,and
' j arriveat Wincheller on Sunday by 6 PM.
2%. From Alexandria by Centerville, Leefburg
r and Sheyherdftown to Martinfburg once a week.
• j Leave Alexandria every Wednesday at 9a m,
' and arrive at Martinfburg on Friday by 10 a m .
• Returning—leave Martinfburg every FriJay by
noon & arriveat Alexandria on Monday by 7 a m.
13. From Frederickfbburg by Port Royal, Lay
■ j torrs, Tappahannock, Urbanna and Glouceller court
house to Yorktown once a week.
Leave Frederickfburg every Wednesday at 6 a
' m, arrive at Tappahannock on Thursday by 11
1 am. Leave Tappahannock at noon and arrive at
Yorktown on Saturday by ham. Returning—
Leave Yorktown every Saturday at 1 P M, arrive
1 atJTappahannock the next Monday noon andarrive
• at Frederrcklkarg on Tuesday by 5 PM. ]
24. Fronj Tappahannock by Richmond court (
houfc, Welimorelanil court house, Kipfale, Farn
hani church and Northumberland codh hotffe to f
' Lancaller coiirt house oiice a week' t
Leave Tappahsnnock every Thursday noon and
arrive at Lancaller court house 011 Saturday by 11 r
am. Returning —Leave Lancaller court house av- -
ery Saturday by 1P M. and arrive at Tappahan- 1
no«k on Monday byu a m.
45. From Frederickfburg by Culpeper court '
house & Orange e. h. to Charlottefvilleonce a week.
Leave Fredcriddburg every Toefday at 10 am, 1
and arrive at Gharlottefville on Thursday by 11 a
m. Returning—Leave Cnarlottefville on Saturday '
at 8P M, and arrive at Frederickfburg oil Ties- _
day by 6 a m.
16. From Richmond by Goochland court- ,
house Columbia and Charlottefville to Staunton ,
once a week. 1
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at I P M, ar
rive at Charlottefville on Thursday by 11 AM. :
Leave Charlottefville bv noon and arrive at '
Staunton on Friday by 11 AM. Returning—
Leave Staunton o* Saturday by 6A M, arrive at |
Charlottefville by 7p m, and arrive at Rich- ;
mond the next Tuesday by 9 A M. .
a - Fram Staunton by Bath court-house and
Sweet >i>riugs to Greenbrier court-house once a ■,
week. 1
Leave Staunton every Saturday at 6a m, and 1
arrive at Greenbrier court-house on Tuesday by
6 pm. Returning—Leave Greenbrier court- '
house every Monday by 9 AM, and arriite at '
Staunton on Thursday by 8 p m.
aB. From Charlottefvile by Warren, War- ,
minster, New-Market, Araherft court house, (
Cabelllburg, and Maddifon to Lynchburg once 1
a week.
Leave Charlottefville every Thursday at 1 p
m . and arrive at Lynchburg on Saturday at 6
p M. Returning—Leave Lyntftiburg every '
Tuesday by 6 a m, and arrive at Charlottefvilfc
■ on Thursday by 10 A M. . <
1 29. From Richmond by Hanovertown, Ay
letta and Todds to Tappahannock once a week
or if carried in stages as often as they shall run.
Leave Richmond ev#ry Wednesday at 5 A M,
arrive at Todds at 3 P M, and at Tappahannock
• on Thursday at 11 AM. Returning—Leave
Tappahannock on Monday at 1 p m, and ar
rive at Richmond on Tuesday by 5 PM.
30. From Richmond by Hopkins's, Powha
| tan court house, Cumberland coupt house, Prince
. Edward court house and Lynchburg to New
t London, once a week.
Leave Richmond evefy Tuesday at 8 A m,
arriveat Prince Edward on Wednesday at 6 e
. M, and arrive at Lynchburg on Friday at 8A M,
and at New-London by 10 AM. Returning —
: Leave New-London every Friday at a P m, aj
- rive at Lynchburg by 5 p M, arrive at Prince
j Edward on Saturday by 7 pm, and arrive at
- Richmond on Monday bv 4 P M.
31. From New-London by Liberty to Fincaf
f tie once a week.
Leave New London every Friday at 1 p m,
and arrive at FincaUle on Saturday by 6 p.m.
Returning —Leave Fincaflle on Monday at 5 A
M, and arrive at New London on Tuesday noon.
за. From Liberty by Rocky Mount to Mar
'* tinville onfe in two weeks.
• Leave Liberty every other Saturday at 6 A
M, and arrive at Martinville on Sunday by 6 P
m. Leave Martinville on Monday by 6 A M,
j and arriveat Liberty pn Tuesday by 6 P M.
re 33- From Prince Edward court house by
lt Charlotte court house to Halifax court house
once a week.
?, Leave Prince Ed war' l court houfeevery Thurf
-- day at 6 A M, and arrive at Halifax court house
n1 on Friday at 10 AM. Returning—Leave Hal
ifax courthouse on Friday bv a P M, and ar
re rive at Prince Edward court house on Saturday
i- by 6P M.
;h VIRGINIA andNOkrH-CAROLTNA.
»t 34. From Halifax Court-house by Halifax old town,
k. Carters, Martinville, Patrick cour;-houfe, Upper Sau
-3 ! ra, Germantown aud Beihania to Salem once in two
M weeks.
,y Leave Halifax court-house every other Friday at
, e 8, PM, and arrive a; Salem the next Monday b\ 6,
lt P M. Return n|> LeaveSaiem every oiher Tlll Hay
at 6, A M, and airive at Halifax court-house on Fri
l day by 10, AM.
L _' 55. Fiom Hairis's by Hickes'aford to Halifax twice
a week.
. Leave Harris's every Wednesday and Saturday by
£, A M. and arriveat Halilax by i 6, P M.> Relurn
ing—leave Halilax every Thuifilay and Sunday by 6,
-I AM, and arrive it Harris'» by 7, P. M.
y VIRGINIA. 1
зб. From Smiihfi-Id by Southampton cc»rt-lioufe f
l > to Hickrs's ford once a wctk.
\ # v-
Leave H'.cks'sford every nthir Friday b/2* PM»
and arrive at Smir..rt«?ld on Saturday by 5. P M.— I
Retar^in^— every Sund-jy by |
r 5» a M, add arrive at ii.cii'* fvrd on Monday by
3 i,PM.
37. FromGoldfons by G'cfbridge, St. Tammaav's,
Mcck.JeV'»erg and
n!un<U#Kt to Go4diou'r once a week.
t Le« v e Grold ion's ever v vVedwftfay ai to, AM, and
return tK-next Saturday bv PM, waiting at cacn
, Poft-Q.lice 'i hours after delivery of the m>i -
niittTSlA & NOR TH-CAROL IN A.
38. From Suffolk by Edenton, Plymotf h aud Wa
' fhuigUm to once a week. Leave Suffolk
every Monday at noon, arrive at Eientori on fuef
day »r 1, P M, z' P ymouth, on Wednesday by 6,
■\ M, at Washington by 6, P \f, and at XewSernon
* Thursday by 5, P M. Reluming—Leave Newbem
every Friday by 6, A M, arrive at VValh*ngton by
■ 5. PM. Arrive at Plymouth on Saturday by 4
P M, at Ed'nion on Sunday by 9, A M, andarSuf
-1 io'k. on Monday by 9, A M.
NO&iH CAROLINA.
39. From Edcnkouby Hertford, Nixomoa, Eliza
be. b city, and Jonclburg to Indian-town, ouce a
week.
Leave Edcnton every Wednesday bv t, P M, and
arrive at Indiarmown on Thu fday by 6, P M. Re
turning— Leave lixiiantown eve* v Tuesday by 5, A M,
and arrive at Edentou on Wednesday at 11, M.
40. Worn Halifax by NorthainotOu court-house,
Princeton, Murfreelborough, Wiriiou and Windsor
to Eden to n : once a week. }
Leave Halifax every Monday at 9, AM, and arrive
at Edcnton on Wednefdav by 3> P M, leave Eden
tonon Wednesday by 6, P M, and arrive at Halifax
on Saiur ay by i 1, A M
41. From Halifax by Scotland, Hogton, Williams.
foii and Daily's to Plymouth, once a week. Leave
Halifax every Monday at ie, A M, and arrive at Ply
mouth on Wednesday bv 10, AM. Returning— c
Leave Plymouth on Wedntffday at 2, PM, and «tr- v
rive at Halifax on Friday nt 10, A M. i
4a. From Halifax by Ta*boro' and Greenville to
Washington onee a week (
Leave Halifax every Monday at 10, A M, and art
rive at Walhington on Wednesday by 10 A M. Re- t
turning—Leave Washington every Wednesday at 2, r
P M, and arrive at Halifax on Friday at 10, AM, j
43. From Halifax by Warrenton, Williarafborough, v
Oxford, Hillfborough, Martinville, Salem, Lexing- t
ton, Salisbury and Statefville to Charlotte' and from t
Charlotte by Cabarras court-house to Salisbury, and
from thence by the fame route to Halifax, once a
week.
Leave Halifax every Monday at g< A M, arrive at
Waireuton by 7, PM, arrive at Hillfborough on 1
Wpdnefday Gt 4, P M, at Salem on Friday by 5, 0
P M, at Salifburv on Saturday at, 4, P M, and at 1
Charlotte on Monday by 6, AM. Returning—leave 1
Charlotte on Monday at 10, A M, arrive at Salisbury
on Tuesday by 10, A M, arrive at Salem »on Wed— c
nefday atg, A M, at Hillfborough on Friday by 9, v
A M, at Warremon on Saturday at 7, P M, and at t
Halifax on Monday at 6, A M. ii
44. From Hillfborough by Mount Tirzah, Person c
court-house, l*eafburg, Cafwell couruhouffc and Roc- g
kingham court-Honfe to Germantown once in two
wfeek*.
Leave Hillfborough every otherThurfday at 6, ASi t
and arrive a' v Genrjantawn on' Saturday at 4, P. M. c
Leave Germantown every other Sunday at 6, A, M,
and arrive at fiijlfborough onTuefday at 4, P M.
45. From SaleiTi by Be.hinia, Huntfville, Roch- _
ford, Wilktfc, Mpffcailton aftd Rutherfordt&n to Spar
tanburg in C. o«ce in two weeks.
Leave Salem tveiy other Saturday.at 5 AM, and ar
rive at Spartanburg on Wednesday at 5 rm. Leave
Spartanburg tvdry other Thurfthy at 7 a m, and sir*
rive at'Salem the nfcjtt Monday at 6 p m.
46. From Loulfburg by Nalh couit-hdufe to Tar
borough once a v/ee^k.
Leave Tat borough every Friday by 6a m, and ar- j
rive at Louifburg by 6p m. Rctt&ning—LeaVe Louis- ,
burg every Saturday by 6 a m, aod arrive at Tarbo»-
rough by 6 r m.
47. From ft.aleigh by Smithfield, Waynefborough, *
antl Kinglteh td Nedrbem, once in two weeks. 2
Leave every other Tuelday by 8a m, and a
arrive at Newbem the next Friday by 10 a m. <
Returning—Leave Ncwbern every other Friday by 2 1
p m, and arrive at Raleigh on Monday by 6 r m. t
48 From Raleighfcy hill to Hrll(borough,
and from HifUboiough by Chapel hill and Chatham c
COUTk-houfc to Rai«*gh T o*l €■-«-«- weeki waii iwl)
hours at Chatham court-house.
Leave Rafcigh every Tuesday by 6 a m, and ar
rive at Hillfborough by 6 v m. Returning-—Leave
Hillfborough every Wednesday by 8 a m, and arrive
at Raleigh on Thursday by 10 A m.
49. From Fayettevifle by Eiizabethtown, Bellefort a
and Springfield to Wilmington, and from Wilming- t
ton by S. Washington, Sare&o and Sampfoti court- I
house to Fayetieville, once a week.
Leave Fayettevnle every Tuesday at 6 am, and
arrive at Wilmington on Thursday at 10 a. m. Re
turning—Leave Wilmington every Thursday t 4 am,
and arrive at Fayetteville on Sunday by 5 pm.
50. From Fayetteville by Alfordton and Randolph
coart-houfe to Salisbury, and from Salisbury by Mont
gomery court-house, Anfbn couit-houle and Rich
mond court-hoafe to Fayetteville, once a week.
Leave Fay/etteville every Saturday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Salisbury on Tuesday by g a m, Leave Sa
lisbury every Tuesday noon and arrive at FayctteviHe
011 Friday by 6 p m.
51. From Newbern by Trenton and Richland to
Wilmington once a. week.
Leave Newbern every Friday at 10 a m, and arrive
at Wilmington on Sunday by 6p. m. Leave Wil
mington every Tuesday at 10 am, and 2rrivc at New- l
bern on Thursday by 6 p m.
SOUTH & NORTH CAROLINA.
52. Front Camden by Lancaster court-house, Char
lotie and Ltncolnlon to Staiefville, once in two
weeks.
Leave Camden every other Monday at 6 a m, ar
rive at Statefville on Thursday by 6 r m Leave Statef
ville every other Friday by a p m, and arrive at Cam
den on Monday by 6 p m.
SOUTH-Q4ROLINJ,
53. From Columbia by Winnfborough, Cbefler
court-house, Pinckneyville, Spartanburg and
Greenville court-house to Ptckenfville, and
frotr. Pickenfville by Laurens court-house and New
bury court-house to Columbia, once a week : waiting
one hour at each poft-office o'n ihe route.
Leave Columbia every Monday at 9 a m, arrive at
Spartanburg every Wednesday by 3 p m, arrive at 1
Pickenfville on Thursday at 4p m, arrive at Laurens ■
court-house on Fiiday at 4 p m, and at Columbia on
Sunday by 6rp m. t
54. From Columbia by Orangeburg to Charleston, ,
once a week, >
Leave Columbia every Monday at 10 am, andaa- t
rive at Charleston on Thursday at 10 a m. Returning t
-—Leave Charleston every Thursday at tp m, and ar- j
rive at Columbia on Sunday at noon.
SOUTH-CAROLINA & GEORGIA. \
k 55. From Edgefield court-house by Cambridge, j
k Abbeville court-house, Pendleton court-house, Hat
tonsford, Franklin court-hoiifc, Eiberton and Peters 1
» burg to Wafhiogton, *nd from Washington by Pe
tersburg and Cambridge to Edgefieid court-houte, l
' once a week.
I Leave Edgefield court-house every Ft iday byß aw, f
arrive at Pendleton court-house on Sunday by 9 am J
. arrive at Franklin couit-houfc by 7 pm, at Paterfburg I
. on Tufcfday by 10 am, and at Washington by 5 p I
m. Leave Washington every Wednesday at 6 am,
at Camb idge on Thursday by to am, and at Edge- 1
field court-house by 7 p m.
f 56 From Auguiia by WaHiington, Grecnfburg and
Lexington to Georgetown, once a week.
Leave Augutla every Monday at 3 p m, arrive at
» Washington on Tuesday by 5 PM, and arrive ai
Geoigetown on Thursday by 7 p m Retorting—
-5 Leave Georgetown every Fiiday at 6a m, and arrive
at Aug<<fta by noon on Monday.
1 57- Ftom Gardens Corner to Beaufort oneea week.
» Leave Beaufort every Thursday at ap m, and anive
y at Gardens Corner by 8 pm. Returning—Leave Gar.
- decs Corner every Thursday at 5 a m, and ariive at
Beaufort by 10 a. m.
Note I. r Tbe Pojl Afaffer General may alter the time*
y of arrival and departure at any time faring tlx continuance
- of the CQHtrm&s, bt frevioujly Jlipulating an adequate cvm-
i f sensation f»r any extra experfc tbut may be occajtoned there
h-,
1 Nje %. Half an hour Jbill be alloived Jer opening
e j and cla/lng the Matiiit all utfi*cs.where no particular time
I ii fpecifud.
Ko'c K For cvei) Imr's delay funawidabt'c acciaeiits
I excepted) in anivtlg after the times prcfcribed in any con
trafl, the Contrafior Jfiall JorJeit one dollar, and if the de
lay continue until the departure of any depending Mail,
thereby the Mails defined for such depending Mail, lose
a trip t an add-Itonal forfeiture of Jive dollars Jhatl he
incurred•
Note 4 Ntrtvfpapers as rvtllas Let'ers fere to be sent (
in the Miilr ; and if any person making prop of As defies
to, carry ne ivfpapers uiheT than those -comveyed in the mail,
for bis otvn em >lwnent } be mufl Jlate in h»s propfals for
iub.it J u-n be if ill carry it foith that emolument and for
•what Jum without that emolument. ,
Note J- Should any fier/oa maling propofab deft're an
alteration of the times of arrival and departure above fpc
cfedy he mufl /late in his proposals the alterations debred,
an t the difference they iui'l male in tk* terms of hi* con- c
tra&. I
Note 6. Per funs mating proposals are dft red to fate j
their prices i;t gross by the year, a>td not by the mile, g
Thyfe tobo contrail will receive their pay quarterly, in' j
the months of "January, April, July and October, in f
drafts on the pofl offices on the route and in bank notes. j,
Note 7. The contracts are to be in operation on the fir ft t
day of April next> and continue for four years, until p
the 31fl day of March incluf:ve t in the year 180 %. t,
JOSEPH HABERSHAM, I
Pofl- Mailer General.
V
General Post Office, "> f c
Philadelphia, December 18, 17971 j
New-Theatre,
December 11, 1797. j
THE Managers particularly rcquefl the con
currence, of the public in the'abolition of .a
cuiloai, which has hitherto obta:ned, of giving a- '
way or difpoSng ol RETURN CHECKS at the
Theatre. h
They are aware that gentlemen are unconfeious
of any wrong done to, Me iuterefl of the inllitu
tionby thispraflice, from a general, though mis
taken idea that Checks are the reprefentativos of a
right to so many feats in tbe Theatre, during an
Evening's Entertainment, and transferable at will; c
when in faft, they were never intended as more
than tvhtni by which the Door-keeperi are enabled
to afcMtain with the lt-aft trouble to the fartiei,th IVt. 1 Vt. r
tbty tbemfelvis have been before m the.lheatre, or ]
paid for their admission. t
Independent of the injury the Managers sustain, j
such a practice encourages a croud of idle boys and
other disorderly persons tofurrcmnd the doors of
the Theatfe, to the oorruption of their moral* and c
the i-reat annoyance of the Audience.
It has atfo been thefo*rce of two evils of no in- "
confideraWc magnitude ; one is, that f wnetimei '
very improper company is by these means admit- '
ted ; and the other, that to Checks passing ,
into difhotiell hartcls, they have be n frequenaly c
counterfeited to a large amount fqr the purpoftsof t
Sale. <
This ftatenient- will, it is refpeitfu'ly hoped, in
duce tfie Public to discourage such a traffic : and
the exertions of the Managers will, if thus affiited,
easily p»ove adequate to its entire abolition.
WIGNELL REINAGLE.
Dwentber 13 iw i
Musical Inftrtiment Manufactory, .
167, Arch-street.
TO THI VVrtRS OF HARMONY.
HARPER,
INFORMS hU friends artd the public, that he has
now ready for sale, a few of hi* new invented, <
and tnuch adtnired fide board Mono Fortes, with
PedaU,patent swell, fonqpahact and French harp
flop, which for fenfibiljty of touch, brilliancy of
tone, simplicity and durability of conftru&ion, the 1
fnpt riority of which Jie flatters himfelf, a Angle tei- *
al will convince the unprejudiced j«dje —As they
are manufactured under his immediate infpeSibn,
of the very be A seasoned mattri&li) he oan fell 011 '
reasonable terms for Cash. Inftrumeuts repaired,
tuned, &c.
N. A. Second hand Piano Fortes taken in ex- "
chanpe for new. )
hfiimler IS: lavrzmo.
; " r , —_ i
Samuel & Mi ers Fisher,
ARE NOW OPENING,
At,their Warehouse, No. 17, Dock Street, a frefli
afTortment of Woolen and other goods, Suitable to
the season, received by thelate arrivah from Eng
land.
They have also for Sale,
Lisbon
P CS >^^^ 8, qu&rter calks*
Port Wines, j
Assorted <yieen's ware in crates, &c.
loth ino- 23d. jw.
City of Waihington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
Amagnificentdwelling-houfe ao,oo6dollars,
& calh .10,000, are 50,000
r ditto 15,000 & cast 15,00® 40,00#
1 ditto 15,000 8c calh 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & caih 10,000 ao,ooo
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cafli 5,000 10,000
1 calh prize oF ' 10,000
1 da. 5,000 each,arej • xo,ooo
so do. 1,000 - - 10,00 c
lo do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
too do. 50 • • 10,00 c
4190 do. »5 • 10,000
1,000 do. *0 • »0,000
15,00s do. 10 • >59,000
16,7.39 Prizes.
33,161 Rlanks.
jc,ooo Tickets, at Eight Dollari, 400,000
N. B. To favour thofewha may take a quan
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,00odollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but on* s
And approvednetes, securing payment in either
monay prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received for anynumber not lefsthan 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private buildings to be ereited in the City ol
Waihington—Two beautiful are already
fcle&ed for the «ntire Ironts on two of the public
squares; from thefedrawisigsit ispropofedtoereci
two cent re and r our corner bsildings,as foonaspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them.,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, ir>
the manner delcribed in the fchemc for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of fiye per cent, will
be made to defray theneceffary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for trhe National Uiiiverlfty, to
be ercoled within the city of WalVington,
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Brizes, ape held by the PreSdent and two DireiSl
ors of the T3ank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount ol the lottery.
SAMUF.L BLODGET.
t .5, Tickets may be had at the Hank of Colsm
bia ; of James Weft St. Co. Baltimore; of Feter
. Oilman, Boflon ; of JohD Hopkins, Richmend
f aud of Uicjiar.l V.'.] Isj rnnncr's Ferrv. mw
; Samuel Pleafants Sff Sons,
No. 74, South Second-Jlrtet,
r T T AVij received a supply of Seasonable GOODS,
f 11 which they are r.o>+ opening for sale, on
rcafcnible terms. OiS 27.—4W
" This Day Publiftied,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNC, sornerof
,( Second »nd Chefnut streets,
f c Price • %tbs of a Btllar %
ot Observations an certain Documents .
Contained i* No. V and VI i>f
" The History of the United States for
\l, . the year 1796,"
3r In which the ciiargk or speculation againll
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late SicketaKy of the T*easurt, is FULLY
m REFUTED.
I- IT KIT TK M Br UIMS tL P.
J, This publication presents a concise ftuement
of the base means pradtifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the cbarafiers of thofc
t' psrfons who arc considered as hostile to their difor
'• gamzing schemes. It also contaios the cor
*' refpondence between Mr. Hamilton and Me(Tr6.
" Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venab'e, on the fub
je.st of the documents aforefaid, and a series of let
tcrs from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr.Ha
milton, proving beyond the pofiibriity of a doubt,
that the connection between him and Reynolds,
was the rcfult of a daring cojifpiracy on the part
of the latter and his aflbciates to extort money.
A discount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor ot wholesale purchafcrs, for
cash. Orders to be addressed to Mr. Yoon«.
A'l'uft 1?.
Yellow Fever and Peltilentiaf
Diseases.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED in one vol. o&avo.'
" v By William Young, Bookfellcr y
No. 52, Second street, the corner of Chefnut Arcot/
? (Price, in boards ,871 % Cents)
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
s Paper,
A VIEW
I Of the Science of Life ;
1 -On the principles established in thd element*
; or Medicine, of the Late celebrated
\ .... JOHN BROWN.M. D.
ith an attempt to correA some important er
r 1"°?, 0^^ t r WOrk ', lr,d caf " 1,1 illustration, chief
y feledleil from the r.cords of their praft.ee, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
'l' Br MILIUM TATM CHAS. Macleak.
f 1 ° ls fubj«med, a Treatise on the a^Sion
d of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion for the cure of diseases of indiretf debility
. <Anda dilTert at ion onthe fourcos of Epidtmiranrf '
Pcftiler.tialdifssfes; in whicliisattempredtoprove
. by a numerous induftion of fatfs, tint they ne
g ver arise from contagion, but are always prodti
y ced by certain dates, or certain viciflitudos of
,f the atmosphere, by Charles Maclean of
CalcutM. '
" ov - "• * fiat
;> A'UR SALE, By
Joseph Anthony Co.
No. 5, Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Bourdeauxßrandy, ift 1( j
proof, just landed
) ajo bales of Bourbon cotton of afuperior quality
9 do. Surat, do do
A quantity of heavy black pepper in bales
Bourbon Indigo of the firft quality
ls High proof Jamaitaipjrits
1> Old London particular Madeira wine /In pipes &
b do. market do ( qr. calks.
j" New England rum in hogsheads
e Genuine Holland Gin in pipes
Claret in cases
„ Spcimaceti candles and ftrain'd oil
j Prime Boston beef
„ Choice Halifax Salmon ia barrels and half barrels
Do. Herring in do do
' Best Eofton Mackarel in barrels of the fall fare.
. New»Englaiidyow I : «en
_ Ar< " a.'ij. r ta. COlri*re
Kuuia feather beds
_ Clover and Timothy teed in :afcs
Long whale-bone
' fto a, 2, and 3, Boston fail duck v - £-j
A few c'.iefts frli quality Hyfun tea
Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and
t0 An invoice of Dutch hollow glafi ware.
E" November 8. diw.
i'his day is Published,
At the Qffice of the Aurora, No. 112, Market Street,
:s . ( Price one dollar and a hal. I ,]
A view of theconduft of the EXECUTIVE in the
FORLIGN AFFAIRS of the Uniied Siats«, conne6l
ed with the Miflion to the rrrnch Republ.c during
the years, 1794, 5, 6,
By JAMES MONROE,
Late Minilicr Pler.spotentiary to the laid Republic
llluilrated by his I INSTRUCTIONS and COR
RESPONDENCE and other authentic documents.
A very liberal allowance to those who bny to fell
again.
December 23, *6t.
School Books and Stationary.
W. YOUN G,
o« No. Second-ftrest, corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
00 TT AS now ready lor sale, a very large affort
-00 X 1 ment of I'njJ'jh, French, Latin and Greek
00 SCHOOL BOOKS. Also, such elementary books
o0 on Science, as are gfnerally read in the academies
00 and colleges throughout the United States.
co
oc Sheridan's Dictionary, the lixth edition, in one
large vol. 8 vo, price 3 dols.
Ditto, large 11 mo price 1 dol 75 «fs.
00 Ditto, common, price 1 dol. jo cts.
oc All forts of drnwing, packing, printing, and
00 writing Paptr ; Bookbinder's Boards, Pasteboards,
00 fhcathiHg and blotting Papers; printed Bboks,
00 blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, ef
the befl. quality, used in t>.c counting house, or
public office-
Catalogues of a mifi ellaneous collefiion bf
BOOKS, with the price of each aifixed, to be had
08 bv inquiring as above. OA. 24. —ijawdw
~ LAW BOOKS,
in
be Latest London and Dublin Editions.
ST H. £3° P. RICE, BookJ'ellers,
No. South Second, and No. 50, Market ilreet„
'in ¥ TAVIj just received by the h:e arrivals fronv
'k II London and Dublin, their fnriug
tion, confiding of a variety of the latrflt and moil
. approved 1 .aw Books, xvhicla, added to those alrea
dy 011 hand, forms the moll exri'iifive colledicn ev
? er offered for fa'.e in this country. They therefore
beg leave to' notice, that <«rom the nature of theip
, connedknsin Dublin, are enabled to felllrifa
editions (as> they have hitherto tot,?), at the very
lowed prices. The following are among the latrft
. ' publications.
Vefcy, jun'fs Reports in Chancery, 2 i«J«.
Peak t's Cases at Nil;
in the time of
,1 Praditc ii'tiiff I cclefirtvMcal Courts; Barton's
Treat do on a Sun in Equity; Tidd's Praiflice of
the Court of Kiri'* in Personal Anions, %
, parts cXKT.pletc ; Ward's .Law of Nations ; Cruise
q on Uses ; modern Reports, it vols. London edi
-lat tion>
H. and P. Rice expert t» receive by firft ar
rival from New-Yttfk the 6th vol. comjjJrte of
Durnford and Eafl's Reports, the ad part cf Gil--'
m * bert's Law of lEvivknce by Loft, and a number of
*j cr new publications.
Tune 16.
! W
Wantedto Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
thetentreof the city—for which a "enerotis
)S, rent will begiren ; to be taken for a year, or on
on more fy a longer term, fnqu i ecf the I'rin'rr.
7- oaf