etteof mUuitst) Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.:
Num&Ul J747-J
LAW of PENNSYLVANIA. j" tl
hofj
An ACT to alter and amend the health laws of r
oft hit Comma* wealth, and to incorporate a m ":
Board of Managers of the Marine and City gag
Hospitals of the Port of Philadelphia, and fuel
for other purposes therein mentioned. sub'
WfHEREAS the laws of this Common.
w wealth for preventing the imports-
tion of infeftious or contagious diseases into ma(
the port of Philadelphia, and the Health- *
Office fyltem thereby established, have been 7
found by experience to be defective : j
ft. I. Be it tkerefot e enatled by the Senate ; ([)e
and tfoufc of Reprefentatiics of the Comncn- :
wealth of Pennfyhanin in general aj'enkly me'-, !
and it is hereby enisled by the authority >f the i ta . f
fame, That thf buifdio&s how er. fte-l, a'"l ; a „ d
those hereafter to be eretled, on State illand, (
and the ground therewith referved*nd there- j
with occupied, with the appurtenances, be j mc
and they are hereby appropriated, for the j
use of an Hospital and St< res,£o be ca.icd .
the Marine Hospital of the Port of Ptiiladel- ,
phia ; which Hospital a'id Stores are ap
pointed to receive Gck and iiifeSwl per.,
for.s and goods arriving i i the port ol Ph,la "! thr
delphia, from any other port or place. until
the fame (hall be restored to health and pu-
nfied ; and that the roeffuages and lots com-
Bionly called the City Hospital, fitnate on
the north fide of Saffafrs,i llreet, and eall
fide of (he river Sfchuylkil 1 , fiiall continue to da "
be aid hand used as a.n Hospital foi the City, ■
the Townfhip# of the Northern Liberties th(
and Moyaiieiifing, and the Diftrift of South
wai k, and the fame messuages buildings and -j
1 ta are hereby vetted in and (hall be under £ n
the management of a boird to be appointed tQ|
ju. herein after directed, who- are hereby e-
rested i >to a body corporate, in deed and
in law, by the name, stile and title of the v j £
Managers of the Marine and City Hospitals
of the Part and City of Philadelphia, who a
ihal! haxe perpetual fucctffion, and enjoy all
and every the rightr, liberties, privileges,
powers, authorities, and immunities, inci
dent or belonging to a corporation or body rc
politic, and (hall moreover have and exercise j 1( ,
the powers and authorities h'-ieiaafter men-
tioncd, that is to fay j the Mayor, Recorder h{
and Aldermen of the City of Philadelphia, yo
or any four of them, the Mayor or Recorder
being one, and the Jullices of the Ptace of
the County of Philadelphia, residing within
the Northern Liberties, Diftrift of Sourh- cf
•wark, and Townlhip of Moyamenfing, or a y ( . (
three of them, (hall meet on the firft Mon
day in May in every yew, at the City Hall m
in Philadelphia, of which meeting puhlic
notice (hall be given by the said Mayor or *
Recorder for two weeks before the ti»e, in q
at leall two public news-papers, publilhed in c<
the city, and (hall then and there appoint
twelve p rfons, two of whom (hall reside °
■within the Northern Liberties, and two
within the dillrift of Southwark, co re Ma- ( .
uage'sof the MarineandCity Hofpitalsofthe
Port of Philadelphia for the yearenfuing, and
until others he appointed to succeed them.and P
shall.cause notice to be given tocach person fp £
appointed, to meet his colleagues on some
iay ih the ensuing week, at the Health-Os-
sice, in the city of Philadelphia, for the pur- f
pose of organizing their board, their j.
officer*, and proceeding to perform the du-
ties by this aft enjoined on them ; at which
firlt meeting the Managers (hall chufe cne
of therofel es to bs their President, and at (
that or any other adjourned meeting ore j
other person to be ibe'ir Treasurer, who (hall | (
give bond with sureties, as the County Trea- j _
farer is bound to do, ?ml (hall receive all mo.. |
nits bekxijim.l o the said corp ration, and _
pay aivl difbuife the lame upon the orders of '
the board, figntd by the President or Chair-
man, snd atteil-d by the Clerk ; and lliall .
keep fair and jull accounts of his receipts and
cxpvnottutes, and (hall report abftratts there-
ol vrhenevtr. the board (hall require the fame ;
and -on - e a year (hail adjust all his accounts,
aivd the fame being allowed hy the Board,
(haJl be pu diflv. d in oite of the public news
papers, of the city. One Sttwar i aJtd ,ooe
Matron to reside at the said Hofp tal. and
fuchaffiHaot chrks, nutfes and servants, as
from time to time shall be found necessary to
perform the several duties required by this
a I, And their hnur; regulations ; that the
said Board (hall fit upon their awn.adjouni
ments, as they (hall find necefiary, but .it
lead once ia evty week, between the firft
day of June and the last day of Oftober in
every year, and whenever they (h3ll be sum
moned by or !cr of the President or of two
Managers, at which m«etings.five members
ft all be a Board to tranlaA business, but a
JefFer number may adjourn ; and if the Pre'
fident beabfent, they lhall ihoofa a Chairman
for. the time ; and the said Board (hall have
full power to m-ke general rules, ordeia and
regulations for the government and manage
ment of the health office and marine hos
pital, and for prtferibing the mods of v:Jit.
iuganU examining vfiel", p rfons and houf
«bv the.Heallh Officers ; the prcfiden an i
attending Physician to remove any of the
offi ers or servants by them appointed, ar>d
appoint others in their places, and to take
care that all aud every the regulatiom for the
governing and managing the said hospital
asd Health-Office, cotjtairted n this aft, and
i*t thtirown rules and orders, be carried into
fu 1 and prrfeft execution ; and (hall keep
fair minute* of all their regulations, and
tranCaftion« vrbile fitting as a B ,ard.
Seft. 2- And be il further enaded by the
authority 'fore/aid, That rveiy (hip or veflU
com'pg from any foreign port or place,
bound to the port of Philadelphia, between
the lallday of Aprlandthe firft day of De
eember in every year, (hall comr a-chcr
PHI L A DELPHIA; MONDAY EVENING, APRIL 16, 1798.
in the liver Delaware, as near to the marine auth
hospital ; s her draft of water and the (late Ihy
of the tide and weather will reasonably ad. said
mit, before any part of the cargo or bag' p' ,c
gage be landed, or any person who came in Ma'
such ftiip or vtfTel (hall leave her, and (hall ber,
submit to the exaTiinations and obtain the vvha
certificate hereafter fpecified ; and if any ting
matter, commander or pilot, (hall leave his the
ilation before the said hospital, or if any
matter or commander (ha 1 permit or fuffer td i
any part of the cargo or baggage, or any ing
person or per.sons arriving in such (hip cr £
veflll. from any port beyond the limits of au*l
the United States, to be landed on either as v
Store of Delaware bay or river, before fuc'u rivii
: examiiiati n be duly had, and certificate ob- por
1 taincd, the person or persons so permitting, fan
; ard the person or persons so landing, except the
in cafe of imminent distress or absolute ne- fror
; ceffity, being thereof convifted upon indift- of (
; ment under this aft. by verdift, confeffion a»d
lor Handing mute, in any court having cri- of <
; minal jurifdiftion within this commonwealth, fioi
! shall be fentenc d to and fuffer confinement i ica
' in the jail of the county of Philadelphia, for tati
» any space not less than one nor more than .and
'! three years. ( ' e S
Seft. 3. And be it further enaSed hy the je<9
authority afercfaid, That it lhall be the duty fait
t of the resident pkyficiati and health officer of exc
ihe hofpi kl, so foou as any (hip or vessel th<!
fiiall be'anchored near the hospital, in the fel
day time, immediately and weathet nifl
permitting) to go on board the fame, and rnti
there demand from the mailer or command- cui
er the names of the velfel, commander and be
pilot, the place from whence (he lad came, arr
and of all other places at which (he may have the
touched during the voyage, the number of Se
the crew and passengerf 1 with which (he fail- or
ed, whether any have died since fhc failed,a tai
view of her (hipping articles, log-book and thi
bill of health, if (he came from a pert whence mc
a bill of health is required or accultomed to fu<
be brought, and a fight of all persons on gr:
board, and to demand ar.fwcrs under oath du
or affirmation, to be administered by tfee (h:
resident physician or health officer, who are an
hereby severally empowered to administer as
the fame, to all such questions touching the an
health of the crew and paffcng-jrs during the re<
voyage, and the nature of the cargo, as the
1. said board by tbe r rules shall from time to au
time direst to be aflced ; and if the answers ed
(hall be fatisfaftory, if the number of the H
crew and pafTengers (hall agree with the ar- pi
licks, bill of health, and other documents all
J produced, and the verbal account of the fr
mailer or commander, and if there (hall ap- ci
: pear no ground to fufpeft that any of the es
r crew or pafiengers h?ve died in the voyage, te
1 or are then labouring under any dangerous ot
1 contagious disease whatever, or that thenar- h;
L go on board is infefted ; then and in such S
' cafe the said physician and health officer ec
1 shall give to the matter or commander a cer- m
tificate of the lasts, in fuch'form as (hall for p
that purpose be dtvifed by the said board, g
, permitting such (hip or vessel to proceed to
the city, or to lar.d the pafiengers, which b
0 certificate the said mailer or commander (hall "
r prefsnt at the health office \n Philadelphia, si
within twenty-four hours after his arrival and "
" fafely mooring there ; and if he (hall negleft si
1 so io do, being thereof convifted upon in- t;
'* diftment under this aft, by verdift, confef- c
1 fion. or (landing mute, in any court of err a
16 minai jurifdiftion in this commonwealth, he e
lC shall be sentenced to pay a fine of fifty dol- c
'."j hrs, for the use of the said hospital: and il I
! upon such examination, any difference (hall [
2 " appear between the written documents pro- {
duced by the mailer, or his verbal account, t
7- and the number and (late of the crew and t
palT'ngers, or any suspicion shall anfe.is the 1
r " mind of the health officer or physician, touch- 1
J ing t e health of the crew or pafiengers, cr '
any of them, or the infeclious (late of the 1
ve(Tfl or cargo on board, they fh®H order
: ' the velTcl to remain at anchor n ear the hof i
pital, ar.d (hall make out a report of the (
(late of the vefiel, crew, paflengt rs and car
'S" go. as to their health or otherwise, and(hall
°1 transmit the-fame, together with the letter
bag of the vessel, arid such letters as the maf
-33 ter, commander or pafiengers (hall think pro
,t.° per to write to his or their on ners, cor.fign
|' S ers or friends, to the health office in PFiiia.
delphia, under the necefiary precautions to
m " guard the against communication or infefti
un from the fame, to the end that the par
. ties interested be informed thereof: aud if
lft thev or any of them be difiatisfied with the
m ~ report and opinion of the hospital physician
™° or health officer, in such tafe the phyficixn
:r3 of the health office in Philadelphia (hall visit
a the vessel, crew and pafkngeis, and make
report of his opinion thereon ; and thereup
,an oh the said b«ard of managers (hall direst and
3V< ! determine,- and transmit orders to the resi
dent physician and health officer, what time
the said vessel (hall retrain before the hofpi-
P tal, and how the crew, passengers, vessel and
'!.* cargo lhall be disposed of and managed for
>U j the relloration of their health and purifica
tion, which direftions Iknll be carried into
_ 1 execution under the infpeftion of the phyfi
' , cian by the health ar.d other officers and ser
vants of the hospital, who shall <:auf« the
• '"! persons to be removed, and the cargo or any
a part of it to be landed, and the vessel to be
cleaned, ventilated and purified, at the rx
,nto penfe of the matter, owners or consigners, in
ec P such manner as by the said orders fiiall be di
an rested; and the fame being petfeftcd, the
f j £ said physician and health offic«r (hall, with
,rj the special consent in. writing qf the board
e " " of managers, grant a certificate thereof, with
ace ' perraiffion for the said vessel, ergo, crew and
p" paffengeri, to proceed to the city, in manner
, herein above mentioned.
Seft. 4. dnd le it ftrther enatted by the
By John Fen no, N° - 119 Chef nut Street.
authority etforefiid, That no Health Officer, ern
Physician. or other Officer cr Servant of the ratii
said Hospital, (hall absent himfclf from the (ia!
phce of his duty, dtiriug the months of shall
May, June, July, August, September, Ofto- taxe
t>er,November, on any pretence, forany time Coll
whatfocver, without leave firft obtained in wri- and
ting from the board of Managers, under ritie
the hand of the Prefidesrt or Chairman for be j
the time, at;eftcd by. the Clerk, and enter- rat,e
ed in the minutes, under penalty of forfeit- fami
ing his office. f am '
Seft. 5. And be il further enaded by the Tre
authority aforefaid, That all (hips and vessels, rece
as well vessels of war as merchant veflels, ar- pay
riving at the port of Philadelphia, from any sure
port or place in the Mediterranean,, or tfce £
feaa or waters connefted wijir the fame, to autl
the eastward of the llraits <flk Gibraltar, or er
from the ceaft of Africa, without the llraits To'
of Gibraltar, and the territory of the fa ne, Mo
and the ports of Afric- other than the Cape wit!
of Good Hope in the Indian ocean, and ing
from the main land of North or South Ame- frot
rica, or the Welt-India islands, between the any
latitude of the river St. Mary in Georgia, be I
.and the beginning of the latitude of thirty twe
degrees fcuth of the Equator, fiiall be sub- No
jest to be detained at anchor in manner afore- nex
"said, before the Hospital, for a space not in 1
exceediftg twenty day 6, in order 10 aCcertain hen
the healthy ttate ol the cr, w, paffsagers, vsf- net
fel and cargo, unless such vessel shall be fur- the
r.ifhed with a certificate from such port com- 01
moaly called a bill.of health, in theform ac- bei
cuitomed of a bill of health is accultomed to of
be brought from such port ; and all vessels the
arriving from foch ports as aforefaid, during foi
the months of May, Ji"' e > J u 'y> August, off
Septcmhdr, Oftober, and November, with eal
or without foch bill of health, fiiall be de- thi
tained at anchor in maoaer aforefaid, before ke
the Hospital, for a term not less than ten nor th.
more than twenty days before any certificate, an
such as is herein above required, shall be of
granted, to permit them to come to the city ; wf
during and after which refpeftive limes they fio
shall be examined and treated in the manner, th
and fob] eft to the like pains and penalties, tw
as are herein above mentioned, as to (hips dc
and vessels not in the predicaments last above th
recited. S r
Seft. 6. And bf if further enaCled by the pa
authority aforefaid, That there (hall be grant*
i ed to the Managers of the .marine and city au
Hofpitfils, of the port and city of Philadel m
. phia, for the purpose of paying the debts fu
i already incurred, out of the funds arising ci
: from the duties and the fjles at auftion in the tc
- city and county of Philadelphia, a sum not fe
; exceeding fix thousand five hundred and fix- ti
, teen dollars and twtnty-fix ctv.tj, to be drawn ft
1 out of the Treasury by warrants under the c <
. hand of the Governor, and lesser seal of the ai
1 State, which (hall be granted, paid and allow- t l
r ed to the Treasurer in account, In the fame Iy
- mandcr and form that other monies appro- tl
r priated by law are, or of right ought to be fl
, granted, paid and allowed. o
0 Seft. 7. And whereas the sum which j1;
h by the eighth feftion of the Aft entitled ; p
1 "an Aft to amend and repeal certain provi- t :
1, fions ill the Health Laws of this Common f
d wealth," the Infpeftors of the Health-Os- e
it sice are authorized to levy and colleft by c
1- tax, is found infufficient for fopporting the c
f- ordinary eltablilkment of the Health Office f
i- and Hospitals aforefaid : Be it further enaß f
e ed by thi authority if ares nd, I hat the Board 2
1- of Managers by this aft incorporated, fliall f
if bp and they arc hereby authorized and em- t
ill powered, by and with the consent and apr
j- probation of tke Mayor or Recorder, Alder- j
t, men and«Jullices aforefaid, convened as in
id the fecor.d feftion of this aft required, to le- ,•
ie vy and colleft by tax, on the ellat'» and in- )
h- habitants of the laid City, Diflrift of South- 1
cr wark and T"wn(hips of the Northern Li
ne berties, and Moyamenfing, in the fame man- 1
er ner, at the fame rates, and under ihe fame 1
of regulations, a» the County rates and evies are
he or may be by law levied and collefted, such
ir- sum annually as upon an eft ma'e to be made
all by the said Board, and laid before the said
er Mayor or Recorder, Aldermen and Justices,
if- fha'l be deemed fufficient for the ordinary
o- expenditures of the said Health Office and
;n- Hospitals for the current year ; Provided
ia- the fame ih not exceed the sum of ten
to thousand dollars. And in cafe 'lie said City,
:li- Diftrift and Townships (hall in any year be
ar- vifi ed with any pefliien ial or contagious
lif disease, which fiiall require extrccrdinSry ex
thc penditures, the fsid-Board of Managers, by
ian and wkh the consent and approbation afore
;„ti said, are authorized aod empowered to bor
ifit row, on the credit of the said City, Diftritl
ike and town(hips,any extraordinary sum or sums
ip- beyond the above limitced fum,which in their
irid judgment fiiall be necessary and fufficient for
efi- the fuppo't and maintenance of all the poor
me sick who (hall be sent to the said Ho r piial
"pi- and the incidental charges arising from the
ind necessity of tie cafe, Provided the said sum
for does notexceed twenty thousand dollars; >.nd
ica- shall have full powfr and authority to_lety
pto and colleft, by ao additional tax in manner |
yfi- aforefaid, a sum fufficient to pay off and dif
fer- charge the monies so borrowed, and lhall
the pay and discharge the {ami as speedily as the
any said additional ta\ can be collected. And
be whenever the amount c f the said ordinary
ex- and extraordinary taxes (hall he ascertained
j, in in manner aforefaid, the said Board of Ma
:di- nagers shall transmit the fame, under the
the hand 3of the said Mayor or Rccor'er, Al
irith dermcn and Juflices, and of their President
jard and fix other Members, to the Commiffion
vith ers-of the County of Philadelphia, who shall
and forthwith cause the said amount to be laid
iner and affiffed an the eflatea an! taxable inha
bitants of the City of 1 hilndelphia, Dittricl
the of Southwark anj Towr ships .of ihe Noiih-
ern Liberties and Moyamenfing, in ilicfame carri
ratio as the County latca and levies are or land
["fitall be laid and affefk-d ia that year, and ner
shall litts and duprcates of the said the
taxes to be mide cut-and delivered to the ftitr
Collcftors, who shall coliuft the County rates j ti2a
and levies, who fiiall, under tlie iame fecu- and
rities, penalties and regulations as are or shall and
be provided sOs the 011-ftionof the County the
rat;es and levies, colkft and pay over the effed
fame ordinary and exlraordinary taxes, in the touc
fame manner and at the fame times to the tire
Treasurer of the said Board, an l take his appi
receipts for the Came, as in cafe where they
pay other collefttoni to the County Tre'a- lilt.
surer.
Sc"£t. 8. And be it further enn&cd by the auth
authority aforefaid, That every house keep- nail;
er within the City of Philadelphia, the whi
Town(hi)S of the Northern Liberties, and covt
Moyamenfing, and Diftritt of SouthVark, and
within a mil- of the limits of the City, tak- for
ing in boarders arriving by sea or by lans, ers
from any foreign port or piace, ana having ptr<
any boarder in his or her family, who fiiall Ct-s,
be taken sick at any disease whatsoever, be- "Md
tween the firll day of May ;.nd firft day of offii
November in any vea', within twenty days ferv
next alter fucti boarder (hall come to lodge alte
in his or her house, (hafl within twenty four are
hours next after the knowledge of such sick- gra
ness, make report at the Health-Office, of ger
the name of fsch sick person, the time of his phj
or her arrival at the hotife. and of his or her be
being taken sick, and of the name and place so r
of abode of such lioufe keeper ; whereupon blif
the Physician of the Health Office (hall fin;
forthwith visit the patient, aud report to the the
office li'is opinion of the nature of such dif- oui
ease, that measures may be taken 10 prevent 110
the spreading of infeftion ; and if any hovfc- the
keeper shall negleft to give information, in fev
the manner and within the time aforcfaid,
and shall be thereof convifted, in any court cel
ofcriminaljnr fcliftion within this Common- CO]
; wealth, uponindiftment L»y verdift or confef A
fion, he or (he shall forfeit and pay .a fine to ty
, the use of the laid Hp'P'tal, not less than m<
, twenty dollars, nor more than one liundied an
s dollars, tc be imposed at the discretion of on
: the court, according to the circumstances of
greater or lesser aggravation attending eaeh au
! particular cafe. °f
Seft. 9. And be it further enaded by the to
• authority aforcfaid, That whenever, by the fr
means aforefaid, or by the report of the phy- of
8 fician appointed by the board to reside in the th
\ city, whom the board are hereby authorized gi
e to fend to places or houfesfuppofed to be in- fii
t fefled, whqfe visits for such purpose the ci-
;- tizens are refpeftively hereby enjoined to p
!» submit to, or by any other means it (hall u
e come to the knowledge of the said board, that 1)
e any person within the city of Philadelphia, v.
'• the town(hipß of the Northgrn Liberties and h
e Moyamenfing, within a mile of the limits of
>- the city or the diflrift of Southwark, is as- a
e with any contagious djfeafe, danger- b
ous to the community, it (hall and may be ti
h | lnwfwl for the said board to take order for >
d j preventing the spreading the contagion, ei- b
i- tlier bv csufing the patient to be removed to r
i some retired place, '»t the colls of the pari a
s- ent, or his or her friends, or at the i"
iy charge, or by forbidding and preventing a!i a
ie communication with the infefted house or. f
:e f mily, except by mcar.s of phyficiaas, nur
-- fes and messengers to convey the necessary <•
rd advice, mtdictnes and provisions to the at i
ill flifted accordingly, ns the circumstances of, t
n- the cafe fiiall render the one or the other i
p- mode in their judgment mod conducive to j
r- public good, with ilk* haft private injury,
in Seft. to. A;dbe it further enabled by the.
Ie- authority aforefaid\ That when any veff.l
n- fhal 1 come up to the city of Philadelphia, or
h- the shores of Southwark, or of the Northern i
.i- Liberties, in the river Delaware (although
n- the said vessel may have qbtained a certificate
ne of health from the marine hospital) if the said
ire vessel (hall appear to the board of managers
ch to be infefted with any contagious disorder,"
de dangerous to the community, the said board
lid are hereby authorized to order the said vef
es, fcl down to the marine hospital, there to un
iry dergo the ncrceft'ary purification, before Die
nd shall be permitted to return ta the city or
led shores aforefaid ; and the said board are al
ien so hereby authorized and empowered to re
ty, move any vessel or vessels from such part of
be the city or shores aforefaid, as fliali be infeft
3us cJ wii'n such unu.dcrs as aforefaid, to such
ex- convenient distance as they way deem pro
by per, althoughfuch vessels may not be insisted.
>re- Seft. 11. And be it further enacted by the
ior- authority aforefaid, That whenever the said
ritl board (hall receive information that any con
ims tagious disease rages in any part or place
icir v/ithin the United States, or on the continent
for of America, they (hall make diligent inquiry
oor concerning the fame, and report the result
tal. of their enquiries and information thereon to
the the mayor or recorder of the city of Phila
fum delphia, who fliall thereupon summon the
Mid aldermen of the said city, and justices of the
lety county of Philadelphia resident within the
iner difirift of Southwark. and the townships of ]
dif- the Northern Liberties and Moyamenfing ;
hall and it (hall and rcay be lawful for the said
the board, by and with the consent and appro
\.nd k bation of the said mayor, recorder and alder
lary men. or any four of them, the mayor cr re
ined corder being one, and of the said j iftices or
Via- any two of them, to prohibit and prevent all
the communication, by land and by v/ater, with
Al- Inch infefted ports or places, by flopping all
lent vessels coming into t*ieport of Philadelphia,
ion- at and before the marine hofpiuil, in the lame
shall manner, and under the fame penalties and
laid forfeiture#, as a>v. hereby provided in cafe of
oha- vessels coming from't' e foreign ports menti
irift oned in the preceding fe/licn3of this aft and
ulh- by flopping all pailcngers ia llages or other
{Volume XIII.
carriages, Of on horse or faot, coming by
land from such infefled places, in fuel) inn li
ner as the circutnftancis and exigencies of
the cafe (hall require. All judges, jullicef,
(htrifFs, conftabies and civil officers, and ci
tizens of this state,, are hereby authorized
and empowered, enjoined and required to aid
awd assist the said board and their officers, to
(he uttnoll of their potfer, iu carrying into
effect all such rules, orders and regulations,
touching the (loppage of"futh intercom i'e, As
the said board,, by and with the content and
approbation of the said mayor or recorder*
aldermen ahd juilic'es, ill nil ordain ar.d pul>*
ii£h.
Seft. 12. jind it it further enaCled by the
authority afarefaiJ,. '1 hat all and tviry the pe
nalties and forfeitures impoled by the aft to
which this aft is fupplemcntary, lhall be re
coverable in the manner therein mentioned,
(hall enure to the use of the said bo.'pital
for i:s support j and all and every the pow
ers and authorities, liberties and privilege?,
prrqui&tes and emoluments, duties and fervj
ccs, by t,he said afts required of, or granted
mid allowed to the infpeftors of the health
office, their physicians and other ciScers and
Jervants, which are not in confident with the
alterations hereby made, (hall be and they
are hereby declared to be required of arc
granted and allowed to the boari) of mana
gers, by this aft incorporated, ar.d to thiir
physicians a:d other officers and Lrvants, to
be appointed in pursuance hereof; and that
so much of the aft entitled An.aa fjr tfta
blilhing an heajth office, (or othei wife secu
ring the city and port of Philadelphia from
the introduftion of pellileotial and contagi
ous diseases, and for regulating the importa
tion of German and other paflengtrs," pafled
the twenty-seCond of Apiii, oue thousand
feveu hundred and ninety-four, and of the
aft entitled " An aft to amend and repeal
certain provisions in the health laws of this
commonwealth," palled the fpsrth day of
April, one thousand seven hundred and nine
ty-fix, as arc herein and hereby altered, a
mended or supplied, and no more, (hall be
and the fame is hereby rep-aled, and made
null and void,
f Seih 13. And be it further er.aSed by thi
\ auth rity aforefa'td, That whenever any seven
of the said board of managers (hall represent
t to the Governor, that they deem the removal
; from office of any of the physicians or health
. officers herein before mentioned, necefTary for
c tbe security of the public health or the good
1 government of the laid marine hospital, and
- shall fpecify in such representation the causes
- of their complaint, and grounds of their rc
o prefentatioß, the Governor (hall thereupon,
U unless such caufea and grounds are manifefU
t ly frivolous and inefficient, forthwith re
i, move such officet r and appoint another in
d his place.
>f Scft. 14. And le it further enaHcd by the
f- authority aforefaid, That no citizen or
r. bitant of the city of Philadelphia, the dif
ie trift of Scuthwark, or the tovnfHipi of the
ir Northern Liberties and Msyanacnftag, (hall
i. be difqua'iSed from fitting as ju <ges or ju
-0 rors, or from giving te(li;nor,y refptfting
J.i any of the offences mentioned in this aft, by
ici reason of his or their common interest in the
!i appropriation of thefum or penalty imposed
3r for such offence.
r- Seft.- IJ. And be it further ena3e 'by the
y authority aforef id, That this ?£t Ihall c >Oti*
f iiue in force for two years, and from thence
)f to the end qf the next [effion of the General
,r Aflenv'ly, and no longer.
;o j GEORGE LATIMER,
Speaker of the Haute of Rebrefentacues,
, ROBIiRT HARE,
ne Speaker of tbe Senate,
Approved, April 4di, 179S ,
or THOMAS MIFFLIN,
rn Qyvernor cf tbe Coiwnonivealih of Pennsylvania,
jrh . -
ite To be Sold by Auction, at the Cof
iid see-House, at 6 o'plock, on the ill May
:rs next,
:r,' A NOTE drawn by ( Mi;:lnel Kraft, of the
r d l \ Cuftom-lloufe, payable to William Love,
c j-_ chair-maker, 1;o, North Front P.reet, for 2jo
dollars, dated the Jcth j:ine 1797,,ftue the id ps
* n " A«p- but neglefled to hi- presented or protefled
till the 18th Augult by the Bank of Pennfylva
or nia, for which the Bulk will heeoine liable, if 4
al- jury independent of Bank's pan be found.
i-». April 1.3. *6t
,a. A Young Man wanted.
IC |) Good encouragement will be given to a young'
ir Man to go into the back country, who under
-1 (lands keeping accounts, writes a stood hand,
' and who can be well recommended—None
} f oth?,- need apply. Enquire at Mr. fenno's of
■a'd sice, No. tT'/ Chefnut-ftreet
on- April 13. diw
ace — — ■ —'
en t To be Let,
• (And pofitflion given on the id of May)
fult A genteel three story brick House,
j 22 f.ct front, an 3 40 feet deep, with bacfc buildings
• j an<l<ftii)»js,at prsflsnt in the tenure o! Mljdr JaC^
son. Enqwire at fS 7 Third ftrect.
April 2.
imported in the lhip America,
r AND For VUI, BY
'J\ G. G. SCHULTHESS,
-At MeiTr-. Joa. Antuony Cb'i. Store f
j Book Muslin 1-4 am! 1-2 vard wide
" Check Hhkfs. romnl Hhkfs.
re- Ulue Percales ar.d blue Socrotion
s or One bale blue Cloth 24 pun)#
t all Vitepaicon H! kfs* iS nd 26 pu*j f
vith One bale Betiihas—alfo, %
Foijr bM#i Sago
K a Eight log® Ebony
A saw bojrd* Sattinwood
ame april :i
aacj TO RENT,
[ ec ': f A good three story House,
.nti TWO room* on each florf, with a convenier.
ar " Kitchen—iti Front, near Sjuth-flrect. Enqui.
ther of Printer. tr.auh iJOHN ADAMS,
Preji'cnt of the stafe r of America,
To all to whom these Presents shall come—
Greeting.
WHEREAS a treaty was held on the
fifteenth day of September last at Genes. t,
in the county of Ontario, in the state of
New-> m-k, under the authority of the U
nited States, with the Seneca Nation of In- !
dians, and at the said treaty, in the presence
and with the approbation of Jeremiah Wadf
worth, the Comir.iHic-ner of the United
Sta'es, appointed to hold the fame, a con
vent">n was entered into between the said !
Si neca nation of Indians ;ind the claimant of
the pre-emption right to the la d which is
th# fubjeft of the said convention, in which !
the compenfstion fdr the cxtiiiguifhinent of j
. the claims of the said Indians to that land :
is adjufted—Wliilli convention is i"n the 1
words following ;
THIS INDENTURE made the fif
teenth day of September in the year of our
Lord one thousand seven hundred and ;iine
ty-ft vew, BETWEEN the Sachems Chiefs
ii.ii) Warriors of the Seneca nation of In
dians of the firft part and Robert Morris,
cf the city of Philadelphia, Esquire, of the
second part—WHEREAS the Common
wealth of Maffachnfetts have granted, bar
gained and foki unto the said Robert Mor- 1
ris, hie heirs and afligns forever, the pre emp- |
tive tight, and all other the right, title and 1
interest, which the said Commonwealth had (
to all that traift of land herein after par- |
ticularly mentioned, being part of a tradt of ,
land lying within the state of New-York, ,
the right of preemption of the foil whereof, f
from the native Indians was ceded and grant- j
ed by the said state of New-York to the said f
Commonwealth : AND WHEREAS, at t
a treaty held under the authority of the ]
United States, with the said Seneca nation {
of Indians at Genefee, in the county of On- ]
tario and (late of New-York, on the day of c
the date of these presents, and on sundry j
days immediately prior thereto, by the Hon- t
ourable Jeremiah Wadfworth Esquire, a f
commmiflloner appointed by the- President ]
of the United States to hold the fame, in c
pursuance of the constitution and of the aft f
of tire Congrtfs of the United States in fuc?h j
cafe made and provided, it was agreed in the a
presence and with the approbation jof the
said sdmmiflioncr, by t'ns Sachems, Chiefs
and Warriors of the said nation of Indians t
for themselves and in behalf of their nation, 0
to fell to the said Robert Morris, and to a
his heirs and afiigns forever, all their right „
to ail that tradt of land rbove recited and (]
herein after particularly fpecified, for the d
sum of one hundred thousand dollars, to be
by the said Robert Morris veiled in the v
stock of the Bank of the United States, and c
held in the name of the President of the U- b
nited States for the use and behoof of the "J
said nation of Indians, the said agreement p
and sale being also made in the presence, C(
and with the approbation of the Honourable p
William Sheoatd Esquire, the fuperinten- a]
dant appointed for such purpose, in purfu- p
ance of a resolve of the General Court of ; r
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, passed f t
the eleventh day of March, in the year of J
eur Lord one thousand seven hundred and t |
nitufy one.—NOWTHIS INDENTURE n;
WITNESSE TH, that the said parties of f,
the firft part, for and in confideratior. of the U!
premises above recited, and for divers other jsj
good and valuable considerations them there- f e
unt» moving, HAVE granted, bargained,
fold, aliened, relcafcd, enfeoffed and con- a l
firmed, AND by these presents DO grant, g (
bargain, fell, alien, release, enfeoff and con
firm unto t,he said party of the second part,
his heirs and afligns forever, ALL that
certain traft of land (except as is herein
after excepted) lying within the cotinty of
Ontario and state of New-York, being part
of a tradt of land the right of pre-emption
whereof was ceded by the state of New-
York to the Commonwealth of Massachu
setts.by deed of Ccflion executedat Hartford, ]£
onthefixteenthday of Dec.in theyearofour Si
Lord one thousand seven hundredand eighty
fix, being all such p rt thereof as is not in- gj
eluded in the Indian purchase made by
Oliven Phelps and Nathaniel Gorharh, and o
boundtd as follow, to wit : EASTERLY gt
by the laiid confirmed to Oliver Phelps Q
and Nathaniel Gorhar.i, by the Legislature
0/ the Commonwealth of MaffachufeUe, by Q
an adl paflcd the twenty-firff day of No
vember, in the year of our Lord one thou- f,
sand seven hundred ar.d eighty eight q
SOUTHERLY by the north boundarv , p l
line of the state of Pennsylvania—WEST- q
ERI.Y, partly by a tradt of land, part of Q,
the Iknd ceded by the state of Maffachu- q'
setts to the United -States, and by them k
fold to Pennfylranra, being a right angled q (
triangle, whose hypothenufe is in or along
the (here of Lake Erie ; partly by Lake g c
Erie from the northern point of that trian- ' 'p ;
gle, to tl»e foiithtm bounds of a tradt of
land one mile in width, lying on and along ,
the ealt fide of the ftreight of Niagara, and j f,
partly by the (aid tradt to Lake Ontario,
and on the NORTH by the boundary cj c
line between rtic United States and thj -p,
King of Great-Britain, EXCEPTING f
NEVERTHELESS and ALWAYS RE
SERVING out of this gtant and convey- j„
ance ALL such pieces or parcels of the g,
aforefaid trad, and fuck privileges thereun
to belonging, as are next herein after parti- f
cularly mentioned, which said pieces or "j' (
parcels oflind so excepted arc by the'par- y\]
ties to these presents clcatly and fully un
-4«lloodto remain the property of the said
* i
4
parties of the firft part in as full and *mple
[Banner as if these presents hid not been ex
ecuted, THAT is trt SAV, EXCEPT
ING and RESERVING to them, the
laid parties of the firtl part and their nation,
one piece or parcel of the aforefaid traft at
Cauawagui, of two square miles to be
laid out in such manner as to include the
village extending in breadth one mils along
* the river—One other-piece or parcel at Big
Tree of two square miles, to be laid out is
such manner as to include the village ex
tending in breadth along the river one mile—
One other piece or parcel of two square
miles at Little Beards town, extending one
ua ' mile along the river to be laid off in such
e manner as to include the village—One other
tradt of two square miles at Squawky Hill,
'he to be laid off as follows, to wit ; one square
f' <» mile to be laid off along the river in such
- °f manner as to include the village, the oth r"
U- j diredtly weft thereof and contiguous there
in- j to—One other piece or parcel at Gardeau,
nee beginning at the mouth of Steep-hill creek,
<dl- thence dueeail until it flrikes the old path,
ltd theme south until a due well line will
on- interfedt with certain deep rocks on the
Paid welt fide of Geneffee river, then extending
t of due weft, due north and due ea'l until it
■s . itrikes the firll mentioned bounds inclining
ich 'as much land on the "veil tide as on the j
los | east f]d e the river—One other piece or ,
ind ; parcel at Ka-aun-a-de au extending in length i
he j eight miles along the river and two mile» ]
in breadth—One other piece or" parcel at j
sis- Catafaugos beginning at the mouth of the i
iur eighteen mile or Kogh-quaw-gu creek, i
[ le * thmcea line or lines to be drawn parallel <
ess to Lake Erie, at the diilance of one mile I
Ii- from the Lake, to the mouth of Catafau- j
r| Si gos creek, thence a line or lines extending ;
the twelve miles up the north fide of said creek (
ln at the diilance of one mile therefrom, thence ! j
ar * a diredt line to the said creek, thence down :
or - the said creek to Lake Erie, thence along
'P- the Lata to the firft mentioned cret'k, and ;
n| l thence to the place of beginning—Also
one other piece at Catafaugos beginning at
ar * the shore of Lake Erie, oil the sooth tide
°f of Catafaugos creek, at the diilance of one
k> mile from the mouth thereof, thence running '
: 'f> one mile from the Lake, thence en a line '
parallel thereto to a point within one mile '
from the Con-non-dau-wt-gea creek, thence. !
a ' up the said creek one mile on a 1 ne paral- 1
" c lei thereto, thfcnce on a direct line to the 1
on said creek, thence down the fame to Lake '
' n * Erie, thence along the Lake to the place
or of beginning—ALSO one oiher piece or
r y parcel cf forty-two square miles at or near 1
In " the Alleghany river—ALSO twr hundred
a fquate miles, to be laid off partly at the
nt Buffaflfc, and partly at the Tannawanta j
in creeks—ALSO EXCEPTING and re- {
'ft serving to them the said parties of the firft
c h part, and their heirs, the privilege of fifhing
h e and hunting on the said tndl of land here
"c by intended to be conveyed. AND it is
hereby understood by and between the par
ns ties to these presents, that all such pieces
"> ot parcels of land as are hereby reserved
to and are not particularly described as to the
ht manner iri which the fame are to be laid off,
shall be laid off in such mainner as shall be
determinftl by the Sachems and Chiefs re
:e siding at or-near the refpedtive villages 2
le where such reservations are made, a parti- *}
'd cular note whereof to be endorsed on the
J- back of this deed and recorded therewith—
le Together with all and Angular the rights,
II privileges, hereditaments and appurtenan-
p > ces thereunto belonging or in any wife ap- t<
Ie pertaining, AND all the cftate, right, titte tl
and interest whatsoever of them the said A
parties of the firft part and their nation of,
3 ' in and to the said tract of land above de- o
d scribed, except as is above excepted ; TO fr
'f HAVE and TO HOLD all and Angular P
the said granted premises with the appurte- ft
E nances, to the said party of the second part,
his heirs and afligns, to his and their proper fe
le use, benefit and bedioof forever. IN WIT- 3
' r NESS whereof, the parties to these pre- fa
fents have hereunto interchangeably ftt
'> their hands and seals the day and year firft d<
■* above written. C
> Sealed and delivered,") a;
In presence J tv
■' Nathaniel Howell fc
J-Jeph Ellicott til
11 Israel Cbapin pi
James Ret
Henry ; aron Hillt tl:
n Henry /llcel
Jasper Partfh / , O
" Horatio \ Jones j Intcr t r "<"- F ;
' Koying-qauh-tah, alias Young King x l s ni
r Soo-nook-fhe-wau x ls or
)' Kon-u-taico, alias Hasdfome Lake x l s er
- Sat-ta-kangu-gafe, alias Two fkic3 of
y a length xL s
i Ona-ya-wos, or Farmers Brother xls
Soo-roo ya wau-t*>, alias Red-Jacket x l s of
3 Gifh-ka-ka, alias Little Billy x l s fir
c j Ka-oun-doo-wand, alias Pollard x ls
y Ou-riea-fhat-a.'-kau, or Tall Chief by no
his agent Stevenson, xls j
" Teah-do-waing-qua, alias Th.Jemifon x ls uti
- Onnong-gaih-e-ko, alias Infant x l s
y Te-kqn-non-dil x l s
■ O-negh-tau-qoo ail x l s
' Con-na-wau de-au x l s Ri
1 a-as-ftai-e-je x l s co
1 Koe-en-twah-ka, or Corn Planter xls cei
1 00-fau-kou-nen-dau-ki, alias To def
? troy a Town xls
e Sooe-00-wa, alias Parrpt-nofe x 1. s
- I Tao-na-hoo-kah-wa, xls fir
f How-wen-non-new x l s ha
I ' Kou-nah-kct-tou-e x t s Ti
* | Toou-yau-kau-na X L 3 nej
> Won-don-goohk-ta x l s inl
1 So-nauh-quau-kau x l s of
i Twau-naui-ya-na x l s
' Ta-kau-non-de-a i ts
She-quim-daugh-que, or Little Beard x l s
" Jo wa-a X l"s it i
: Sau-naju x ls Rt
■ Tauoi-yu-qua-ta-kau-na x l j of
' Ta-oun-dau-dil\ x i. s Rl
Too-au-quain-da • xt s
Ah-ta-au xls
Tau-koo-fr.jon-da-koo xls
Kau-nc-fljang-go x l s ! A 1
*
c Soo-non-ju-wr.u x l s
■- To-po-waui-ya, or Capta'n 3nllet xl s
- Ja-ah-ka-a-r-ya* x l s
e Tau-gih-fhau-ta x l s
'» Snk-ken joo-nau . x l s
1 Ah-qsu tie-ya, or Hot Bread x l s
e Siig-gn-n'un-da-au x l s
e Tau-no-wain-tooh x l s
g Kos-non-joo-wau-na x l s
g Soo-goo-e-yan-de-es-tah x l s
a Hau-twa-nati-e-khau, by Young King x ls
Sau-cu-ju-wau x l s
- H-tu- ooh-fhau-wau x l s
e Tauko-non-dau-geh-ra x l s
e Ka - m-ya-naug que, or John Jemifon x ls
'i Hoi- ( e zufh x l s
r Tak-na-ahquau x ls
') Robert Morris, by his attorney
c Xhomas Morris, ls
h DONE at a full and general treaty, hi
r | the Seneca Nation of Indians held at Ge
'* nefee, in the county of Ontario and State
> of New York, on the fifteenth day of Sep
. tember in the year of our Lord one thouf
> and seven hundred aad nin'ety-feven, under
1 the authority of tile United States.
e In whereof I have hereunto set
J my hand and seal the day and year aforcfaid
1 Jere. Wadsworth, l s
> PURSUANr to a refutation of the le
c giflature of the 'commonwealth of Mafla
r chufetts pafled the eleventh day of March
i in the year of cur Lord one thousand seven
s hundred and ninety-one, I have attended a
t full and general treaty of the Seneca nation
- of Indians at Grnefee in the county cf On
> tano, when the within iuftrument was duly
1 executed in my presence by the Sachems,
■ Chis r s and Warriors of the said nation, be
- ing fairly and properly understood and tranl
' acted by all the parties of Indians eoncern
■ ed, and declared to be done to their univei -
■ lal fatisfa&ion, I do therefore certify and
1 approve of the fame.
Wm. Shepard.
I Subscribed in "1
> presence ess
Nathaniel Howbll*
NOW BE IT KNOWN, That I John
Adsnjs, President of the United States" of
America, having seen and confidertd the
said convention or Treaty, and being fatis
fitfd that the investment of the money there
in mentioned, has been mads conformably
to the intention of the said convention or
treaty, DO by and with the advice and con
sent of the Senate, accept, ratify, and con
firm the fame, and every clause and article
thereof.
IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I
have caused the seal of the United States of
America to be affixed to these presents and
figtitd the fame with my hand.
DONE at the City of Philadelphia,
the- eleventh day of April, in the
year of our Lord one thousand fe
(seal) ven hundred and ninety-eight, and
of the Independence of the Uni
ted States of America the twenty
second.
JOHN ADAMS.
By the President of the United States.
Timothy Pickering,
Secretary of State.
twhw—... i ,
Tranjlated for the Argus from French papers
ly the ViSoria.
BOURDEAUX, Fab. 9.
aflured General Bertheir is to en
ter Home on the 15th current, and that
the Pope is embarked for the Isle of
Malta.
General Kleber commands the right wing
of the army of England, which extends
frsmCalaisto the mouth of the river Efcaut.
A body of French and Dutch troops are al
so aflembling at Flnftiing.
The Diamonds the Queen of Portugal
sent to England to fell to the value of£
35,000 fterling,are now at Amsterdam for
sale.
The Executive Direftory will only have
done things by halves in persuading the
Govern.'nent of Hamburgh tolhut their Port
again ft the Englifli veflels, as well as the '
two other Hans Towns, if they do not al
so prevail on the King of Denmark to fliut
the Port ofAltona against them which is op
posite to Hamburgh, on the Elbe.
Thirty members will meet at Bade on
the 10th inft. and form a new Constitution.
A chain of polls is now formed from
Oftend, quite to the extremity of Dutch
Flanders. Every pod has a fignalof conyjiu- '
nication. The fame measures are also taken ,
on. the Batavian frontiers, as also from Lux- <
embourg to Treves. t
MADRID, January 23.
We continue to experience a great want
of many articles, which is the more distres
sing, as the People fuller iroft by it. t
As .yet, however, neither iij the Capital
nor in the Provinces, do we discover any '
discontents which can give the Government t
uneasiness.
LONDON, January 27^
From Coblentz, and every quarter of the
Republic, donations to a large amount are
continually coming to Paris, to aid the def- I
cent on England,
STUTGARD, Jan. 24. J
The new Duke of Wirtemberg has de
sired in all public prayers, where Jhe and
has family are in question, that the vain
Titles of " Serene Htghnefsßoyal High
ness," &c. /hall in future be suppressed, and
infteadof which tofubftitude the "servants,
of God:'
COLOGNE, Phiviofe 9.
The king of PrufEa has pubHfhed " that /
it is not in his power to prevent the French "
Republic from entering into full pofleflion *■
of his territories on the Left lanl of the
Rhine. <]
__ a
DUNKIRK, Pluviofe 12.
The Englifli are taking our Fishermen.
All the flat-boats conftrudfng here »nd at
r OfUnd, are made after the invention of a
s Swtde, and are fych as they employed the
s ( last war against the Ruffians. They carry a
s j 4>> and a 36 pounder each—as soon as they
s | tti ike the shore, a fnfpended bridge 'imrae
s 1 diatcly droys and forms an cafy descend. In
s I the Enpiifli expenditioii they will be of
s 1 singular service.
s
5 I LYONS.
s . EXECUTIVE DIRECTORY.
s The Executive Dire&ory, on the report
s I of the minister of general police, having ta
s | ken into confederation, that the bad difpo
s fition which has inceflantly prevailed, from
s the beginning of the revolution, in the com
s mune of Lyons, and which has been the
fa life of many -evils to the republic, still
continues to manifeft itfc-If;
f lit. By the influence of which the chiefs
- of the companies of Jesus, of the afifaffins of
e the South, of emigrants, of deserters and
- of robbers on the highway, all of whom
- find in Lyons and its neighbourhood, a sure
r and inviolable asylum, from the officers of
jufli e, under the pr tetlion of cowardly
t and ill disposed persons.
1 2d. By the impunity with which crimes
of til's kind are daily committed : an impu
nity which arises from the silence of wit
- nefles, and the weakness of the tribunals,
1 fubdiied by fear witjj'which malefactors are
1 able to inspire them.
t 3d. By the obltinate refufal of all good
i citizens to accept "public employments there
- on account of the excefTcs which are com
r mitted,- and the attacks which are made,
, even or the members of the constituent au
- thtirities.
Having taken into consideration also, that
■ the commune of Lyons is one of those
■ which has lead felt the beneficial effeftsof
i the 4th of September, since subsequent to
that day new bands of ma!exa£tors of every
species have renewed their plots, and that
recent provocations have been given by the
young men to the military.
Having, in short considered, that in so
alarminga state of things, it is aot by the or
: dinary powers of the police and admiiiiltra
tion that the execution of the laws, and
the re-establishment of public tranquility can
be produced at Lyons.
Orders, by virtue of the 29th article of
the -law of the sth September.
1. That the commune of Lyons, and
three suburbs of the Red Cross, of La Gu- ;
illotiere, and of Vaife, are put in a state of
siege.
2. In order to carry this measure into
execution, the minister of war will fend
thither, botk in infrantry and cavalry, the
number of troops neccfTary.
The minister of general police, and that
of war, Ere commissioned, as far as each of
them are concerned, to fee to the executioa
of the present order. (Signed)
BARRAS, President.
LAGARDE, See. Gen.
c 5" The Members of the Socie
ty of the Sons of St. George, cftabliflied at Phila
delphia, for the advice and afliftance of English
men indiftref®, —are requeued to attend an Anni
y .rfary Meeting of the said Society, at the City
Tavern, on Monday, the 23d inft. at a o'clock
in the afternoon.
GEO. DAVIS,. Secretary.
%* Dinner to be on the tabic precisely at Jour
o clock. april T4
Landing at Wain's wharf,
From on board the brig Enterprizc, capt. Lang
don, from Jamaica.
60 hogfiieadsof good SUGAR, and "> Entitled to
60,000 wt. of prime green COFFEE J drawback.
And Fnr, Sale by
WHARTON LEWIS,
No 115, South Front ftrect.
Who have liiewtfe for sale,
A quantity of 4th p o»f Jamaica Rum
Molafles, and
70 barrel»of Tadners' Oil
a P r 'l ' 4- to lot
Schu-ylkill Permanent Bridge,
r "J HE books for receiving Subferiptions will
J- be opened at the Honfe of William Sheiff,
at the corner of Market and Fifth Streets,
on Monday the i6th indant, at 10 o'clock,
a. M. and continue open till further notiee.
Richard Peters
'John Perot-
MatthewM'Connell > Commissioners
Godfrey Hag a
Wiiliam Sheaff.
April 14 eetf
Notice is hereby Given,
TH AT application has been made at the Bank of
th« United States, for the renewal of the sol
j lowing five Certificates of Bank Stock, loft by the
capture of the BritiQi Packet, Countess of Leices
ter—viz.
No.37o«,containinjifhares"} lfTued to Henry Ca-
3 70 3 5 do J zenove Nephew&Co j
73 l I , d«. issued to Edwerds
aift Co. !
3188 5 do. issued (in lieu of •
6509 to($l3) to Samuel and Henry V'addington. 1
292S 4 do. ilTued to Phyn, EI- i
. lice and fnglis,
AU pcn'ors e-ncemed arc therefore called upon .
to (hew caufo- r.'fcy new Certificates should not be
issued agreeably to the said application. '
april 14 ec 6 ,v
FRESH TEAS. [
MR. CHALK, 1
INFOUMS his Friends and the Public, that he c
has opened a
TEA WAREHOUSE t
At his Circulating Library, No 7j North Third i
flreet, where he will be happy to execute their
Orders for fine-flavoured
IMPERIAL, HYSON, !
HYSON-SKIN, r TEAS,
SOUCHONG & BOHEA J
On moderate terms. c
Coflce. Chocolate and Loaf Sugar. J
april 13. m&ftf
Joseph Ricardo,
OF this City, Merchant, has afligned his pro
perty for the benefit of his Creditors, to James
C. Fiiher, Samuel VV. Fiflier, and 'i hojnas Wilson.
All persons who have demands are re- c
quelled to furnilh their accounts without delay
and those indebted to make immediate payment to
the Subscribers, a&ing Aflignees.
'Jamts C. £s* Samuel IV. Fiiher.
No. tj, Arch Street,
march j 1 4; j Wt f c
j By this day's MaiL
[ NEW-YORK, April 14.
f POSTSCRIPT.
La ft evening arrived here in44days from
Bourdeaux, the brig Hudson, captain Fan
ning. _
This vefTel is the bearer of further Dif
l patches from our Envoys at Paris—from
. their fizc they must contain volumes of mat
. ter.
1 The politeness of capt. Fanning enables
_ us this day to detail from French papers to
, the 20th February, which contain several
j important articles.
Capt. F. informs that just before he fail
-5 ed, he (aw a letter from our Couful at Pa
p ris, which mentioned that a motion was
j made in the Council of Five Hundred far
1 the condemnation of all neutral veflVta found
, with arms on board. The necefiity <»f jiich
f a decree is fuperceded by that refpeding
r English goods, as far as relates to Ameri
can vessels.
A Bourdeati* paper of Feb. 18, fays—
" Leonard Bourdon, on his arrinel at Ham
. burghj Ordered the feiziire of all Eitglifh
merchandize in that city—ail the Britifiii'ub
. jefle to leave the place—and the port to be
SHUT against thejr vessels." This news
[ is now trebly confirmed.
The following are extracts from Bourdeaux
papers from the rztfi to the 20th of Fe
bruary.
BOURDEAUX, Fel juary 15".
Tne troops wVii- w<-re In garrison at
Phalzbourg, Hague • and Wei.Tembourg,
were filing off for rs/Kturg, to replace
the garrison of t : • ity, which- were gone
. into Switzerland
February r6< -
Buonaparte i ■ Paris ' . Sth of Febru
ary for thc-purptl of r icwlog the army
of England quartered ;>:»g the coasts—the
great. , part ,i :he • ass officers of that ar
' my also went at :! ; tbp-.e time.
We ! earn fioru % Hamburgh. th<tt Leonard
[ Bourdon, had arrived there j but the objedi
of his miffiou was jiot known. Robeijot
was also cxpedted.
Lord Gower, Envoy from the-Court of
London to Berlin, arrived there the 2idof
; January.
1 he latefl intelligence from Constantino
ple informs, that the Grand Seignior, was
greatly alarmed at the rapii march of a for
midable army, commanded by Paffowand
Oglon, against Ardr.'anople.
Citizen Faypoult,' Representative of the
French Republic, to the Ligurian Repub
lic, has been sent to Rome.
The Franckfort Gazette, contains a pro
clamation from the King of Pruftia, by
which it appears he will not deliver up hi*
possessions on the left bank of the Rhine.
Gen. Schamburg, infpeftor of the infan
try at Strasbourg it appointed Commander
in Chief of the army on the frontiers of
Switzerland—Pie is to act only on the dc
fenfiye, and to support the efforts of the pa
triotic Swiss, who are placed under the pro
tection of the French.
All admiral Jarvi6's fleet had left Lisbon
in search of the Spaniih fleet, which it wa3
thought had failed for the proteflion of a
large convoy expe&ed from South America
—two vessels of which had escaped the vi
gilance of the British, and atrived fafe.
February 18.
The privateer l'Orient had captured and
carried in there, the ship Phoenix, of Bal
timore, bound to Bremen.
i he American ship Madison, going from
Cadiz to Rotterdam, had also been carried
in there by the privateer the Rcguin.
It is expeCted gen. Buonaparte will re
main on the coast of La Monche j or 6
weeks. His lady was to remain at Paris.
Sarlat has been declared in a state offiege
by the Executive Directory—adjutant ge
neral Vignes is inverted with the command.
Letters from Coblentz. inform, that the
general of divifiott, Thureau, who bad hi
therto served in La Vendee, had been ap
pointed to the command of all the troops
between the Lahn and the R.hine—He had
fixed hi» head quarters at Neuwied. This
general has marched several coips, with a
lufficient quantity of artillery, to the envi
rons oftiiefortrcfs ofEhrenbreiftein. We ex
pedt he is commanded to attack that place.
February. 2C.
The Commune of B; zier« was put in a
state offiege, at the fame time with Mont
pellier; Capt. Beaubaffin commands there.
Letters from Cadiz d ted Jan. 22, inserted
in the Gazette of Madrid, fay, that they ex
pected the arrival of the French Admiral
Bruys, with the fqua iron of' vessels from
Venice and Toulon. It is said that he i« de
stined to facilitate the going out of Admi
ral Meffarado, who means to go to Brest.
The united naval forces, it isfoid will a
mount to between 70 or go vessels of'ihe line.
The warlike preparations of Rufiiaand the
military dispositions as Anftria in Galli
eia, appear to anounce the cessation of good
understanding between those two imperial
courts.
Multitudes of emigrants are debarking on
the banks of Loire, and spread themlelves
in La Vendee.
It is falfe, that the Minister Scherer, is
appointed Ambaffadoi 1 atConftantinople.
NAPLES, Jan. 12.
The Prince of Caftellicala is succeeded in
office as Minister of Foreign Affairs by the
Marquis de Ga 110, who bore so aflive a
part in the Congress at Udina.
ROME, Jan. 14. '
The Pope is so very ill, that his life is
despaired of, Pie has been seven days with
out an audience with his miniflers. '
BOLOGNE, January 16.
On ounday lafl, 50c Freneh troops arri
ved here from Ferrari—and vefterday com
menced their march towardi Emilie. Thereare small detachments continually palSng
on their way to the head-quarters at Rimi
ni learn that the commander in
chief 01 tlieGernuanforcss, is tofend 20,000
troops towards, Rome, We are fnformed
this week, that the head-quarters of Ber
thier, general in chief, are to be fixed here.
VIENNA,Jan.B.
JEWS turning CHRISTIANS.
It is certain thdt all the Jews established
in the States of the Emperor, have agreed
to celebrate their Sablath in future ori Sun
day.
•EOSTON, Aprii. 9.
FROM LISBON.
Capt. Lajhy and P.uJfeU', arrived at Mar
blehead 011 Friday from Lisbon, in 40 days
The verbal intellieence by them is,
That the Spanilh fleet, of 27 fail of the
line, under Dim M.ijfcraHo, had failed from
Cadiy., were out three days, and had retur
ned into port. Thai Lord St. Vincent, \\ith
11 fa:' of t;e line, and Sir Orde, with
6 fail, were at sea.Hut had not efib -id 1
junftion ;or fa!.en in with the Spanilh ar
mada ;
That the report at Lilbon, was that the
American Extra Envoys, at Paris, were to
leave France, the latter end of February ;
and t!sat twei ty French privateers had
been brought into Lifron, by Englilh a d
Porttigoefe vefills, duri g the they
were at that p->rt.
PHILADELPHIA,
' MONDAV EVENING, April 16.
The merchants, underwriters and tra
ders of this city, will meet at the Cof
fee-houfe to-morrow, at 12 o'clock, for
the purpose of presenting their Address
to the President of the. United States.
The reports in circulation this day, ref
pefling the receipt of dispatches at the Se
cretary of State's office, from our Envoys
in France, are void of foundation,—no dis
patches having been received.
A new edition of jacobiu lies is now runn
ing through the Aurora.
Publicity is all the cry with the anti-ame
riean-gjillic fa&ion ; when they fuppojt or
know that'a diltlofure involves a derdifti
or.'c.f ail principle-—but, puliliu!y wfiicli cx
pofts tlic conduit of their employers in its
true colors, is an abomination that their
foul bateth.
The anti-americo-gallieo faflimn have
long piirfued ttieTame coiirfe that the torie3
did at the commencement cf the American
' revolution. The t.ories re.presented ttiis
ci.untry as divided, so dof.be gallic faiflion.
The tories faio the people conlidered t'le in
terest of Great Britain and that of Ameri
ca, as the fame ; the gailic faftion have
gone further, and t >ld the French that the
people of theU'iited States would factifiee
their own iutereft to that of France.
The paral'el might b.; puriued to a preat
length ; but the above are fufheient. Their
fate will doubtless be th.» fame with that of
their predecessors the tories.
have a prefsin France devoted to the cause
of this country, but that France ha 3 prefles
in the United States devoted to her interest
is moll true. This is nqt fdir play ; the
French papers in this country ought to be
silent, till we get one at least eltablifhed in
France.
The public arc congratulated on tbe firm
nefs and confidency of the aurora man. It
wa« feared by some, from the allusions to a
providence in a late .lumber of Ihe Aurora
that like his countrymen the French he
•would adume for a time at lead, ail appear
a-ce of candor and friendfliip to the Unit-,
ed States, in order to wheedle and deceive.
From this apprehenlion we are however ful
ly relieved by his Nejior and Sidney, publi
cations which contain a repetition of the
vile falihoods that have so long abused the
public. ♦
M. LTON!
Extraß of a letter from Connecticut, dated A
pril 9,
" He wrote to Capt. Chittendon, his
uncle by marriage, covering some of
BACHES's PAPERS. The frfl letter
the old gentkmari defp'tfed and drjlroyed
Yesterday he received another with its ap
purtenances. He immediately enclosed it in
a wrapper, with the seals unbrolen : and, in
the good old famion of New-England, quot
ing a very pertinent text of scripture, direct
ed it " to M. Lyon," and lodged it in the
„ poll-office for Philadelphi. You fee how
Jacobinism flourilnes in Conneflicut 1"
ExtraS of a letter from Majfachufetts.
" Every man of principle here that used
to think of the anti-fadtion in Congress with '
some charity now give* them up as rfepro- :
.bates. It has been pretty generajly said,
the party wars are not to be much regarded <
for if danger (hould arise, they will unite,
and the antis will prove as forward and zea- '
lous to support the government and to stand '
up boldly for the honor of the coi.ntry as ,
the Federalists. Tt has ever be:n so, they a
have added in England. Jf Mr. Jeffcrfon. a
were Prelident ar.d his friends in office, they '
would not dissolve the braces and tics of 1
government, for they love power more ar-
jdently, and are higher toned and more uftd f
jand inclined to domineer than the federal d
party. But the late most extraordinary
toftduil of the French fadtion has blalled
tbem as men and as patriots ; and every re
flecting man, every man that loves his coun
try and its liberty thinks of them with dread
and abhorrence. Their attempt to repeal S
the (lamp adt u well underllood ; and con- I
fideripg the time and the ciroumfUtnces of
the roeafure, it looks exceedingly as if the
; party wifiicd to fee w whiilty poles eredt"
erf against the lr.ws. Ihe eternal boad o*
i theVir inians that they < bey the laws agrees
3 very ill with the obvious tendency and design
1 <;f that repeal. And -now in the name of
our dear country, li t the Virginians alk
themselves, and may k nd heaven put it in
to the hearts ©ftheir constituents toa(k,why
do you oppose government at this time,
when firm united cou:ifs!s are so necelTary ?
3 Is is vain to fav, government is wrong, yet
1 to deitroy it and the country by divifiou and
- untimely opposition is nof he duty of any
hor.eft man who thinks wrong measures have
been purured.
Wien the firftCongrefshad independence
to gain, such an oppoiition as the Virgini
■ ans now make would have l»!t that invalu
-3 able hltffing. It wds then won by union,
and 'o again brought into danger by the en
e couragement their fadtictis opposition has
> given tie French to invade it.
We are told that thr psople of Virginia
I are at least as Well disposed as their members,
II and that they have scores of men at home
1 who will not serve in Cougrefs as refpedtable
■ as the most refpethble of the'ir delegation ;
a pity they will not come forward and ci ufh
e the serpent of fadtion which has stung o;ir
0 peace. If truth Ihould make its way in that
> (late our affairs might be retrieved, ouruni
' on. preserved and foreign foes repelled. That
' state has already sent some federal and verv
Y excellent members, who love America bet
ter than Fiance. But hbwever ourjefpect
■ ed filter Virginia may finally adt, rely upon
it the notheni dates are firm and to
support the government. lathe hour of;
Val danger, our rioify jacobins would fiirink j
into hiding 'places. They are few in num", j
ber, puor in spirit as wefl as in purse, Mail
ed in private character and held in derision
- and contempt even by the common people.
T. he general hope and expeftation it that
_ some few anti-members may be found even i
r yft sensible to patriotism, and though it is i
. now the eleventh hieur, ii is not too lata to j
s renounce th.e p.inciples of the party which '
they cannot pursue any further without i
plunging into the wide yawning pit of de
- flrudtion. The citizens of Virginia too,
- though afudden people and open to violent
s impressions yet they have a bottom of good
- sense and attachment to the union and con
(titution. They will surely change tlieirpo
iiticj and their members as soon at the awful I
- hazard to which we are at this moment ex
posed in confeqaeaee of the opposition of
- their leaders fiiali be duly examined and e»n
fidcred. If indeed the (late cf Virginia
lighs and pants to be a French colony, if
• ihe :s weary of independence, and willing
to lee French commissaries arrive to give the
j plantation: and the white girls tothe blacks,
if Monroe's project of loans and taxes on
A mei icans to supply the French treasury,
should suit better than a (lamp aft to furnilh
our own, why then farewell, dear filter
Virginia, we have miltaken your charadter."
HARTFORD, (Can.) April 9 .
hxtratfl of 2 letter from 3 gentleman in Wind
hum, to his frier.d in this city.
" 1 om Paine's superior fugacity lately discov
ered that the Bible is full of lies—lug disci,: 1c
Quiotte, by a like sagacity, more recently dif
rovered that President Adams's Beolc is full of
the principles of Monarchy and Arijlocrary.—What
a pity tis our democrats do not better agree "with
their fwerthcarts in France,! ! ! When republican
'deas* were at their height in th .t regenerated
country, thsir l>e ; l men read this fame Book and
,iir.bibed its principles with avidity—tranfl-ited it
i.lto French—Sketched its wh»le principles in in
introductory piece, that those notr ac
the whole, might yet become ac'duainteji with the
outline' of fp tifeSlenta work—and, finally,pro
nennced i- the ball treatise th»y had found on the
fubjefil of gewtioe iepuhlicaniftn. But as out de
mo.: follow the clue of their transatlantic brethren j
with the utmoll fervllity in every other refpt Si,
ffbo knows but they niHy soon in this."
Holt, the Nrw-I.oodon Bee, having b;eo
hardly pivffeci about , some of his jaco'jfnic tricks
lately, by Mr. Springsr, has adopts . the common
way with his clan to cxtricite himfetf, viz. by
lwearing. lie ha# affirmed, which means the fame
thing as fvvearing, that he has na connexion with
1 Greenleaf, and docs not give away his papers. If
Jacobins can get cut of scrapes by they
will forever go clear. There is only one defeat in
that mode of doing the bufincf,—Nohdy believes 1
them. ,
Jacobisr AZODEsrr. i
The Jacobins who met in Hartford a week or >
tw« since, formed a nomination, which their emif- c
fariea are scattering all about. I have seen one of
them in the hand writing of one of the candidates,
in which, the firll names after Mr. Coit's, which
is placed at the head,aar t Gid«on Granger, jun.
Alexander Wolcott, Ephraim Kirhy, and William
Judd. These good men were all in t®wn, oa the
week when the clab met. Perhaps they blufied,
apd agread to set themselves up- 'This is as modest 0
as opening other peoples letters.
~ A
To the Freemei ef Conncflicvt.
You will thiis day, have to give in your votes
wr t8 persons, for a Coagrifr Nomination. It is
a matter of great importance, that you choose
' uch persons, as will not betray your interests. We
nave feve:i members already inCongrefs, men of
s he belt characters and abilities. Great pains are
>aken, in the Grft place to make you change them
Cor others. What is the difficulty with them ? F'
i'hey nre all native citizen;, with whom We are
acquitted They are men of the firft reputations.
They tire not demagogues, nor speculators, nor men
of DrsPFR.sTE portu ss. They arie lovers of
peace, and have every thisgat hazard, m cafe of
a war. Who arc the men let nn in opposition to
them ? Look over the nominations which the Ja- ..
| cfebin Club thnt met at Hartford on the ?X)th of
I v.urch made out, a»d havs circulating. Whoßr
set up -it th'in ? First, a member of Congress, just
to blind your eyes. But look at the next four
names Are thty such men as we want ? I need *
not answer.- Everyone knows them. Ther are «
all frur LAN* speculators, head and ears deep ; t ),
and thnt is enough. BefitTes, when we reflect 4111 f,
the'r fituatipns, will you not uflr, why they are
pulhing so hard to get into the offices, vhich oth
er men, at least as g'.od as thraifclves, hold.—
Withold your votctfrom mcp whotake such mea
sures to procure their own elcflion. Put them
down to the bottom of the hill where thty belong.
SO, RATES. Q
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA. ! h
ARRIVED bays.
Ship Tho*. Wilfun, Jervii, *;Mataga 63 w
Brig' urricr, M'Keever, C. N. Mole Z2 1
IfabeHa & Ann, Keen, P. dc Paix 29
Gayofo, Liughain, St. Martins 35 I
I" Fanny, Wade, St. J >li:is 17
) Swift, Bonr:»e, St. Croix 15
s ' 35etfjty, Cox, C. N. M01e.22
;n Suecefs, LocLley, Cliarlelton 10
)f Orlando, Prince, Boflon 20
1c Sthr. Orion, Pryor, Aux-Caves 30
1- Ranger. Lane, Bolton 30
y Dove, Potter, Richmond 4
Sukey, Jamts, yFredtrkkfburgh 4
> Wm. & Joseph, Rhodes, Bolton 35
:t Venus, Hammond, Savannah 14
d Trial, Hand, Virginia 15
y Mahaley, Robbie*, do. 12
e Sloop Betfe'y, Btifher, Alexandria 14
Peggy, Ntw-York 13
e Abigail, Bowie, Alexandria 22
i- Unity, HnfTey., Nantucket 12
1- Little Pull, Clark, Alexandria 2C
1, Nancy, Wider, Virginia 4
1- Sea Flower, Cumftock, N. London 21
;8 Sally, Crofley, Virginia 4
Betsey, Fitch, Nantucket 14
a Trimmer, Douty, North Carolina 13
i, Braridywine, Btirdor., P.. Island 19
e Captain Cox of the brig Betsey informs,
e that lie left at Jeremie the 1 sth ult. the ship
; Jofephus, Kennedy of this port ; Brig
h Fricudflnp, Gallagher, do ; fehr. Poll,
r Higgins, do.
t Brig Polly, Senky was at Caymctes.
Sloop Polly, "Hwpt, fai'lJti f- on Jeremie
t in company with the Betsey for jhe Mole,
v and had not arrived the aid.
Two fqtiare tigged vefifels were feenftand
- ing in for the capes en Friday afternoon,
n
0 Ntw-Tart slprtl 14.
f> Arrived, Days.
; : Ship Perfevtrance, Weatland, Canton 130
I Lujjer Hermoine, Price, St. Thomas 12
. Brig Franklin, Ward, Bonrdr-aux. 62
1 Hnifon, Fanning, do. 44
Lave, French, St. Bartholomews 15
t , Abbe, Eaftburn, do 22
t j Prudence, Willis, New-Orleans 30
9 ! Sclir. Prudent Hughes, Port dj paix 18
j i Sloop Three Sitters, Biihop, E ennuda io
j ! "be fclij. Vulpes, Smith, cfthisport, is
t j oft on the rocks near Bermuda—crew and
. part of the cargo saved.
| jxjst Arrived,
In the ship Phcenix, C3pt. Grice, from Amsterdam,
- % bov-sShtoEois 1 1)1)4. Hogs Brifilcs, ill
3 do. Haarlem Stripes quality
[ 3 <io. Checks, No. a 2 do. do. 2& do,
9 do. Scaling. Wax 3 do. Glue, and
- Cream Cheese in prime 1 jeheft* firft quality Red
order far exportation Crust
also,
1 Jufl Received, via Baltimore, See,
f 50 bales brown Ticklenburgs and hempen Linens
; 10 ba!c« German Oznabrigs
, 30 bales brown Rolls ar\d Hefilns
ij bales Polifii do. suitable for coffee and cotton
' bags
20 bales empty Bags
» 1 bale bleached Heflaps
1 I package Turkey Yarn
54 pieces Madrafs Handkerchiefs
» 1 chest Tapes, No. 13, 25, &c.
1 package rntton Lindfeys
250 boxes Window Glaf*, 7 by 9, 8 by xo, 9 by
11, 10 by 12, 14 by 16, ;6 by 18, &c.
20 chests plain and flowered half pint, pint and
quart Tumblers
20 chests Looking Glalfes, .aflbrted
4 large elegant do.
3° travelling Liquor cases
1 chest and 8 barrels Snuff Boxes
400 fides upper and foal Leather
A cargo of prime Mahogany
Stfrefai Anchors, from 4 to 12 cwt.
I. 20 pipes old Port
A few quarter cafesS-herry ( W[NES
• Co c.fcs White r wli i LS ,- : ;
| 100 boxcsCiarct . ■ J ''
80 boxec Capers
300 small boxes Rujfia Soap
; ticrtesßire
50. calks Roll■ Bfirtrftone . , -
40 kegs yellow ft one Qchfe
15 kegs Barky '
2 hoglheads Madder •> •
1 chest aflbrted Quills -
6 .bales Writing Paper
10 thefts Slates and Pencils.
29.trunks Mens' and W
W? Silver Watches
» hhtVCoHee Mii?s
2 do
2 chcfts Nuremberg Toys
A few Demijohns
A quan ityof ftonc pickling Pot?
4 boxes of ling! I IU Chariot and Chariot Harnett,
with plated ornaments in complete fettsfor 2, 4,
or 6 horfes,alfo Whips; Spurs, &c.
iThe above Goods are generally entitled to draw-
Lack,,arc suitable for the Fftft-Fndia market, and
wili be fold at reasonable prices and at the usual
credit, by *
PRATT KINTZING,
No. 95, North Water-street.
April 16. t&fut
The Subscribers, J
Are landing at Willing's wharf, from on board (
of the ship Elizabeth, Captain Pcaflec, from Ba- <
tavia,
400,000 lbs. of best Java Coffee, «
292 Caniftersof Sugar I
A few toas of Sapan wood
FOR SALE BY
Philips y Cramond & Co
april 16 1 w
This Day will be Landed\
From the brig Orlando, lying at Chefnut-ftreei f
wharf, and for file by the maitcr era board, c
200 barrels Beef i
100 do. N. Jt. Rum of a /uperior quality !
22 hogifaeads of Codfilh '
zoo bundles Codfiih
also, f
On a credit of 3 and 6 months, with undoubted I
f curity, the
J:!KT Brig Orlando, t
And appurtenances, burthen
Jv one hundred and thirty tons, fait i
■ sailer, two-years old, built on <1
the Merriqiae river, in the (late of Maflachufetts. H
Fer inventory apply t - the malt«r ob board f
april 16 • i,
fl
For Sale, . c
A Fakm ai:d Country Seat,
SITUATED Jn the weft fide of the Schuylkill op
polite »o Norris-town, fcventccn miles from Phi-
ladclphii—ihe farm ccntaim 195 tc es 6f land, 50
of which are woodland, about 40 of meadow, a/id
the rcil?rable land. The houfc and garden which is
large and well paled, fund ,n the njolb p!e*fatit filu
ation, commaridiiig a vi?w of fh© river, an island
which is oppofi e and of Morris town—
'l he»c is a fliad {ifkery l'<4onging 10 the place—En- a
ruuc in lH)ihr!rlphi», Nu. g6, No:ih Third Street, v
or on the prcmifr*. p
rpnl 16 sawtf
NEW-THEATRH.
3 MR, MARSHALL'S NIGHT.
3 T'l'lo Evening -will be prcfen'ej, a celeliratcd
3 X Comedy (not performed tliefe three' years;
? The Belle's Stratagvn.
Doricourt, Mr. Bernjrd.
j. H:irdy, Morris,
p Flutter, Marfh.il!.
Conrtal), Harwojd.
Villers, Fox.
f Gibfon, W-arren.
2 Dick, ' Bliflett,
j. Sir Gqorge Touchwood, Warren.
5 Paville, Fdnnell.
, Savilte's Servant, I-I;inter.
, Letitia Hardy, (that night only,with a fongin
character) Mrs. Marfhali.
Mrs. Racket, Oldmixon.
}• j Miss Mil's L'Efirange.
1 j Kitty Willis, Mrs. Doctor,
j. I I.ady Touchwood, Hardmge.
j, j In aft 4—A GRAND MASQUERADE ;
, In which will be introduced a Cotillion, under the
- "Dire&ion of Mr. Byrne—and a Minuet, by Mr,
' Warrell, jun. Mrs. Marlhalf.
> End of the Comedy, a Dance, called
1 The Sailor's. Landlady ;
■ Or, JACK IN DIS TRESS.
' Jack, Mr. Warrell-, jun.
Midshipman, T. Warrcl .
Ned Hawlyard, with " Cease Rude Boreas; or
The Storm, Mr. MarflialL
Sailors, MefT. liunter,l.avancy,Lafferty. &c.
' Lasses, Mrs. Do<ftor, Mrs. Stuart, r vlif* An
derfon,
Landlady, Mr. Doctor.'
Orange Girl, Miss Milhourne.
To which will be added (never 1 -erfornied here,
and positively for the last time this icafon) the
favorite Comical Scot's Pailoral of
The G'entle Shepherd.
Written by Allan Ramsay.
[With the original airs—the accompaniments, !:y
Mr. Reitugle.
Sir William Worthy, Mr: "W arteil.
P at 'e, Marshall.
• Roger, Fox,
Symon, Francis. *
«lau<l, Warrell.
Bauldy, Bernard.
Peggy, Mrs. Mai fhaU.
s Jenny, Warrell.
1 'Vladge, I.'EftraHge.
Maude. Oldmixon.
End of ad: ifl—A Scot's Reel, compofcd by Mr*
Warrell, jun.
The principal < !iara£lers by Mr. Warrell, jun. Miss
Melbourne, and T. Warrell.
Tickets to be had at the usual places, and of Mr
Marlhall,P. Ozeas's, No. Arch-ftreet.
£V On Wedntfday, a Tragedy (never performed
[ here) called Fatal Curiosity—An interlude, ealled,
The Examination of Dodor Lad ; with the Enter
tainment of The Man of Quality, or, A Trip to
Scarborough"—For the Benefit of Mr. Warren.
Grand Ball,
the last this siason,
At Ricketts's Circus, on Thursday next, 19th inft.
undexthe direftion of Mr. Byrne. The Ladiei'
and Geutlemen who intend honouring him with their
company are requested to fend for Tickets as early as
poflible. Gentlemen's one dollar eich to be had at
O'EUers's Hotel, and L dies' of Mr. & Mrs, Byrne,
Nq. hi, South Second, corner of Dock Street.
April 16 \ 4t
5 ALI P El RE.
One hundred kegs of refined Salt Petre,-
For Sale by the Subscribers.
James C. & Samuel.JV. Fifber,
No. 13, Arch Street,
march 31 4tawtf
For Sale,
BV THE SUBSCRIBER, NO- 10, CHESNU" I STREIT,
11 Cafits of Carolina Indigo,
Whijrh will be sol Ton rea r onable tarms 011 a ftiort
credit.
Robert Henderfon.
r -P n ' RIW&S4W
1 For Sale,
By Ellis-ton Ss? John Perot,
4rNorth IVater Street,
Lonclnn particular Madeira Wine, in arul
» quart r caflcs, 4 old and fit. for immediate uft.
dnfericJr- do.
A few bates Aljihal Cofles
Baf'danna Handkerchiefs
Sail Canvals, >Jo. ?, to q
A lewlngsof Junip f Berries '
A parcel of Soal Leatlier, a:id
A few boxes ofjChiiia. 1
march- 3 tu&f4w *
TO BE SOLD, '
>
A Very Valuable Farm, |
SITUATE theNefhaminy dreek, BuckNcoun
ty, containi* g about 148 acres* of which about 30
acre? arc excellent woorf-iand ; the remainder mva- .
dbw and plough land, and in a highly cultivated
Hate ; the whole wnder port and rail fence, chiefly r
new last summer. On the premises are a log-house
and barn. The situation for a couutry feat is per
haps one of .the most eligible in the vicinity of Phi- \
ladelphia, lying on the Neihaminy, with the ad
vantage of a landing place within ioo yards of the J
farm-houfc, and commanding a very excenrive view
of the lurrounding country : it is about three quart
ers of a mile from the floating bridge, 17 3-4
miles from Philadelphia, and 2 1-2 miles from Bris
tol. For terms of sale and further information ap
ply to Thomas Benjer, Esq. ia Briflol, or
WILLIAM WALN, f
No. 144, South Second street.
April 7. 3tawtf
FOR SALE,
ALt that elegant three flory Brick House, brick
Kitchen and Lot of Ground situate on the
foutli weft corner of Fourth and Prune streets, j
containing in front on Fourth street 33 feet, and *
in length on Prune ftrert 98 feet, to a four feet al
ley intended to be left open with cgmmon privi
lege of the fame.
Also, a two story brick House and Lot of Ground
situate on the weft fide #f Fourth street and ad
joining thi above, containing in breadth on Fourth
street 15 feet 6 inches, and in depth 98 faet oh the
said four feet alley; with the coaicion privileges of A
the fame.
And also, all that Lot of Grcsnd situate on the C:
weft fide of Fourth street and adjoining the last Fl
dcfcribed lot, containing i« breadth on Fourth O
street 25 feet 6 inches, and in depth on the north $\
fide iC2feet, thence running southward 11 feet 6 A
inches, thence farther westward 12 feet, thcuce
ft ill further fcutliward 14 feet, and thence by the
Chapel ground 114 feet to Fourth street, with the
common use of the said four feet alley leading in
to Prune street The whole wiii be i'old together a :
if xn»rc agreeable to the pwrchafer.
For terms, enquire of the fubferiber, at his of. m
sice. No. 124 South Fourth street.
ABRAHAM SHOEMAKER. -
march u. sawtf
W ant *l, i
An aisli*e, cleanly, induftriom worran tocook bl
a/id do the bufincfc of ttie kitchen. Such a one F.i
will be allowed good wajre.«, and tio oth'-r needap- .Ai
ply—Enquire of thi Pn.iicr.
February y §
Seafarer of the Library
JL ComMMgtff l'li:ij.! ./ h 1 1, wi'i be \\ KI ,itt: «
Übrary, St gifth ftfiJL on MmJhiv, th« 7th .?
-d May next, {n the afrrrnoon, w?l
the '.y:il 'Hnd the uuuu.il
A« there arc T'Vfrfil (harec on which fine- ara
due. the owners ol t':e-rj, or their repref.-rt.itivca,
are hereby notified, that t-icy will be forfeited, a
greeab'y to the Ja-wsof th# unlefs thd
arrears arc paid off OF. the f.tii 7th day of May,
or within ten days after.
By ord-rof th« D.'re.^ors,
B2NJ.-\MIN R. MORGAN, Secretary.
A f 'l 7 . __ 3»« _
Interpreter'.fForeign Languages.
; n JOSEPH E. G. M. de LA GRANGE,
Walnut-street, No. 110,
BEING July commilliorjed and sworn m the a«
bove capacity, offers to travflate the French,
Engiifh, Spanifc, Porturufr and Italian Langua-*
ges : he flatters himfclf that his former profellion,
as advocate, both in France and St.Comingo, has
? well qualified him to tranfl »te any Court 'proctcd
. ings or other Judiciary inllrttmert*.
r ' N. S. The FRENCH CI.IC'.T. \TING LI
BRARY continues open at the above placu. Ma
ny valuable additions having teen made to this
collection, it eonfi.lsnow of about 1500 voiuma ,
the belt adapted to apfwer the purpose of thofo
who wifli both to improve ?ti the Language, anj
obtain ufeful inftruoHon and plcainrc.
march 30. iiwlm
NOT 1 C L
1 j HPHf. Partnership of the fubijriucrc, un-
A dtr the firm of I'A'X.SON ARD
>SON, was diflfolved on the sixth «,f the :h»rd m»nih
I by r.mtu 1 con fiat All perform indebted
* j thereto are earnellly refuelled to make pay, e::t ;
lt ! | tbofe that have any fie.nati:% thr fame,
| are or-fired to prefect their arcounts.fer set dement
to either cf thefubferibcr-
If'iac p/j xfon,
Nathaniel JiuiardfonS
y Philadelphia, 4th mo. 3d, -7^B.
ISAAC _ PAXSON,
Continues to carry on the bufirtef* at the usual
place, No. to, Sruth.Third ftrcft, where he has
on ha'nd a la»g<* auortmeut of ■ ad
alery, Cut'ery and Brass Wares, which k-: wi 11-11
>vfioJ<?la!e or retail, on low terms, f',»r c*£i or iiu*
usual credit. He expc.fls- to receive by the Hrft
vessels from London, Bri.lol, Liverpool and Hull,
a large addition to his preiVnt 4if">rtme ;* ; 4
r . will execute with puriitoal : ry and care any orders
, from lie former cuftomcrs, and his friends in gen-
erai. ZSW4W
[r A Great .Bargain..
FOR SALS OX PO TOMAC,
In the State of Virginia, and county of Northum
-1(j bcrland,
: A S beautiful a Seat as any on the River, ton
-LX. taining between fev-n and eignt hu-icr. • n
0 cres of Land,- which command a uu>li *de';
profpeft of Coan River, Potomac and t 1
about a third part of which is low gnumi .
rounded with Fife, Oylleri, and Wild Fmil,
a good harbor, and as convenient for trade a'-ri i::.
formatioa as any on the lower part of the : : vjr,
I. and licsfj compact, that abcut two mi'.e? of fenc
ing w«uld inclose the wliole fron; river to river.
r she.Hon. Walter Jonc, iifq. now in Con/, si,
s lives within a few miles of the place,—who ,i!l
1 do me the favor to describe it, and make ~.y tef.-ns
1 known to any gentleci?.n inclining to putxbsfe.
HUDSON MUSE.
Virginia, Urbarma. zs- an—co^t
For Sale,
' A. good situation for a Country Seat,
. Forty, acres of Land,.
On the Old Yorlt ro3d, within light of Cer
mantown, rnd about five miles (rcrf the city;
the whole being under good fence, and U ex
cellent order as paflure ground.
I'or further information and terms, apply to
Jon;, Elliott Crksson, at his o."nc«- tor the
ol KealEftates, Conveyancing, &c. No. ri
High-street.
4t;i mo. -,d. ti:£<fl It
Hi capes.
BROKE the Prlfon of Cumberland county, in
New-Jarfey, and made their efcapt. be.'wecn
i and 2 o'clock, this two Mcn'j who
were conviilcd of fleaiing—one of the pi cilfy him
fclf Jam.sLegg, the other Edward Harrffeleton—
a gr«y-headsd Man. abort years cfd, 5
feet 8 inches high, thick set, with a remarkable
large head ; Hambletoii is about 26 year» o]<l. 5
feet, 9or iq inches hijfh, black hair, i-sic the
prison in company with' the above d.fe.ibed
thieves, a fmallman, who calls J.imfbjf Matthew
Moirifoh, about 24 y ;ar6 old, 5 feet 6 liichtp hi<-h,
lig>it hair, four complexion,-fmiies when talking, is
a wheel-wright by trade -■ Whocv- r will secure
the thieves in any Gao.fin New-]<2rfey or Pennfy)-
vania, shall ba entitled, to receive Icn Dollar* for
the old ore, Fifteen for the young one, and Twen
ty for Matthew Morrifon.
GEORGE BURGIN, Sheriff.
Biidgetown, march 15. 24 —nit&fjw
For Sale,
time of 3 NEGRO LAD, who has a.
1- bout three years to ferve —He is perfectly
capable of and used to all kinds of houfc work ;
has also been ficcuftomt'd to wait at table. A
purchaser residing in the. country would be pr«- '
ferred. Enquire of trie Printer.
April 12. eod.jw
JUST PUBLISHED, ~
AND FOR SALE AT THIS OFFICE,
(Price I's Cents)
Reflections on Monroe's View
OF TITS CONDUCT OF THE FX CCT/rE,
As published iu the
GAZETT t of the UNITED STATES,
Under the signature of
scino,
In ■wlicb lie Commercial Warfare of France it tracej
to theFr: nrh Faflior. in thiiCountry, at itt Source,
and the Motives of (Jppnjition, 15*..
march 3s.
Prison Manufactory.
FOR SALE*
At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel*
pi.ia,
Cut Nails of allfizes, horn jdy to aody
Flooring Brads, Spring*, fiddle and card Tft?ks
Oakum and chipped Logw- od
Shnemakexs end Threa l
Also—Sawed Marble, fuitab'e/or turner's tables,
tomb and hca : itoucs., hearth*, chimney pieces,
platforms, fLbs, facia, wi.r' :w iicaJ*. il'As, c .
All which may he had on reafonabis term ,
Shoes made and Weaving done 3t said Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders from a diftancc, JireAed te S N- \r icl The
mai, agent for the prison, will be aiieiuiad to.
11e-::rmNr 16 mtbfim
For haie,
A" CONVENIENT well I u It f.-cond hand l.igl.t"
Waggon, hung on Jack-"wt|b wUff.s juJ
blinds in-the dcrors, with or without I arn. fs
Enquire of Peer Umcr i\hi>u. ,*Ar:h, b-ow
.ftiitli lirtet, or tiic fulj/cr'l <r in Gtima-itown.
CAHPAR H r . VAIXES.
apiii 1 'lavrjvrFOR sale.
x W w* white >j_j avanna h Sugar h
107 do. browu j J J
WiU he lan led to morrow, at Willingsand Fran
cis's wharf, from on board the brig Aftive, W
iam Williams, maftcr. At his C
also,
The faidßrigforTale,
V., '' And may take in immed.- At hi.
JSSife Y — ately after dilchargfd. Bohe
march 30. CUinz
- For Hamburgh,
THE SHIP whale-b
Dominick Terry, eu
John Fleming, Majler, French
great partof her cargo en"
—J-
February 16 J— f. Do
t or Sale or Charter,
1 he Snow
GOOD HOPE A L
a Will carry about 11°° barrels, »nd
jj ready totake in a cargo. For terms
»pp'y lo „ f j rn Allu!i "
Pragcrs tS> to. to th
No. i?i, South Secosd-ftreet. I Muf
Who have for sale—prime St_ Croix Sugar ingt,
and Hum, Madera, L.fbon, and Tenenffe wins. Colu
Novenaher 7. _1 1 ren _
Thomas Joshua Fisher, I was
H AVI FOR SALE, tf" el
At No. J, Dock-ftreet,near the Drawbridge,
China ware nankeen dining setts, tea and cottee man
cups and saucers I ; n g S
Nankeens, black fatlins and taffities I g r | t
Pmigera cloths, choppah romalls, and bandannoes
China and umbrellaf, I
Ton ether with a general assortment of European pro]
Goods— among which are I d o n
Beots thread in boxts I m3r
6d. 8d lod. IJd and io<J. nails .... "
Shot—T. Crowley steel, Spanish browti and white
lead |
Englilh fcythcs4l to 50 inches X
ALSO, 1 was o
111 barrcllsof kiln dryeH Indian corn meal. l te n c
AcommodiousStore inDock-ftreet, I tak-n
No. 7, to be let, three Hories high, suitable for 1
any business. , I 23
4th mo. s*h J*— j 2^
Jult Landing 23
From the brig Harmony from the Isle of France, I 23
And for lale By 1 2'-
Joseph Anthony & Co. I 2 :
to bale? Bourbon cotton of a superior quality I 2
150 bags do. coflee I 2;
24 casks do. Indigo I 2
- april j Tt
' Just Deceived, 0 f tt
FROM rORT-AU-PKINCE, Ihca
And FOR SALE, by lie SUBSCAICEXS, furtl'
no hhds. Coffee h a n n y ie
46 tierces do.
iqo barrels do. I
100 bags do. • J afc
110 hogfheadsof Muscovado Sugar \—-
80 barrel*of do.
40 hogiheads of Molafics I
4 hale-* of Cotton
2 hopflieads of Cocoa I „
WILLINGS & FRANCIS. l ' ef<
Penn-ftreet. ftjn
march ii. » . j te j
: ~A Bargain.
A quantity of Window Glass chl ]
FOR iALE, of different fiies, at a very large t h,
discount from the .fterlirg coll. If this Glass is apl
not disposed of before the sth ol April, it will be 1 n ; t ,
(hipped from ihi6port.
For terms apply to No. 89, South 1 hird-Urcet. I
march 16. w I
FOR SALE,
BY THt subsCßißtßs, No. 21, Penn-ftreet, I
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges, l-J
John Green, commander,from Bengal, I
Ccnlijling °f _ ha
Baftas, of Various qualities and prices, I
Coflaes • Punjum Cloths
Sanahs Guzzey do.
Humhums Charconna Dorea
Blue Cloth Tanjibs 0
Chintz and Calicoes MulmuU
Mamoodys Checks
Maharagonges P4toa Hkfs. J
Ginghams Mulmul do.
Guzzcnas Bandannoes
Gurtahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcoes Choppa Remals
Sooty do. I A
Gillie Romals Persians of various col. p
Mack Pulicats o
100 tons SUGAR
i)o,' 00 lb. PEPPEK.
Willings y Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges arc now open to sale at that (
commodious store the north weft corner of ,
Market and Fourth-streets. ' 1
Also—A few Bales of Madraft Hkfs. of ele- ,
tfSnt patten s and bed colours.
February 8. dtf .
TREASURY DEPAR I'MENT,
March 30 th. 1798.
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT by an ail of Congress palled on the
t 9 th day of March, 1798, the following
a ttrations and amendments have been made to
the ail pafled on the 6th day of July 1797, en
titled "An aft laying duties on ftaniped vcl
« lum, parchment and paper."
The flamp duties on debentures or certifi
cates for the drawback of Customs or duties on
Imports are repealed.
A discount at the rate of seven and one half
per Centum, will be allowed by tbe Supervisors
or lafpeilors refpedively, to any persons other
than Officers of the Revenue, who may pur
chase it one time or procure to be stamped, any
quantitiesofVellura, Parchment, r Paper, upon
which the duties Ihall amount to Ten Dol
larit or upwards.
in.
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold at
the rates prescribed by law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on account of the
price of Paper ; but for ftimped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional pr ce *i!l be demanded
at the rateof Fifty Cents for each fltin ofParch-
Bicr.t, or Two Hundred Cer.ts for e3eh (km of
Vellum of medium size, »hich may be furni.lt
ed at the expense of the United States and pro
portionally for any lelT-r quantity.v
Grvtn under try band, at Philadelphia, the
day and veir abo'. emrrtio-td.
OLIVER WGLCOTT,
Secretary of tbt Trtajury.
FrcfliTeas. J 11
"Jus! Imported, in the Jhip Delaware, £gp
Captain Cooper, from Canton, j\ p U [
And For Salty by j Chefnut
SAMUEL HOWfiLL, where h
At his Co«npting House, No. 54, Chefnut-ftreet, in^# a
and by j ues to 1
SAM. E. HOWELL, noon, ar
At his Compting House, Crooked billet Wharf, N. B.
Bohea, Souchong,Hyson, Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial 1 EAS. April i
ALSO,
China Ware. afTarted; black and coloured Lute- y
strings and Bat tin", Nankeens, Cassia, large garden . }JY
j and common Fans, fattin and luteltring Umbrellas, n)i
whale-bone sticks. Bjker, i
Tbey have also F»r Sale, btTtirs.
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchiefs,
French Cantbricks and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes.
I march 8. I"
JUST RECEIVED.
And for tale by W.Young, corner of Second J u 1 .
and Chei'nut-ftreet, M. Carey 118 High-flreet
T. Dobfon, 41 South Second-street and the
Bnokfellers generally, 3°°
(Price 5-Sths of a Dollar.) Quee
BEACON HILL,
A Local Poem, historic and deforiptive !
By a Lady of Bojlon.
ANALYSIS OF BOOK I.
Allusion to the surrounding Profpeil— Invocation april
to the River and sylvan Deities—to the Historic
Mufe—FiAion discarded—Dedication to Walb.
ington—The AAion opessat the Retreat of the
Columbian* from Bunker's Hill-General Howe pHI
—The Memory of his Brother—Death of A'ar- J_ ta
ren—Peifcnification of l'crtune and Fame— Month
Wafhinv'on at Mount Vernon—called to the said H
chief Command —Formation of tho Columbian cleft tv
Camp at CambrHge—Natural, moral, or poll- ensuing
tical History of the fcvcral States—Fheir com
manding Officers—Siege of Boftou—lts Suffcr-
I jnjs—Negotiation for the fife Retreat of the apr ;]
Britiß. Army-Its Departure—Appointment of
I Con"Tefv—Declaration of Independence Caa-
I rafter of the Columbian Soldies—l he Poet s
prophetic ApoCrophe to the Frogrefs of Free- Cafl
I dom throughsut the World. priced
I march 30. media
Twenty Dollars Reward.
I '•pHE Store occupied on account of the UmteJ -
1 States, back of No. 71, North Wats r-ftrcet
was oh the nisht of the 19th instant (March) bro
ken open, and the following articles stolen, and
, 1 taken therefrom :
Nine pieces troild, viz. A
1 , 1 Piuou
2374 20 \ yds.| Blue ftroud fing i e
I 2378 20 \ V cord. Sad
I 3 379 20 * Hbrfc
, I 2380 20 lices,
23 81 20 i j Trull
I 2382 20 I Ywocbvd. —jpn
2383 20* L
2384 20 ler> j
I 2385 20-J . I confe
I Tfe above reward is offc*d, for the i.ifcovery cerns
of the perpetrators of this robbery, so that they -
Ibe apprehended, and made amenable to jul ice , ar£ £
1 further reward will be paid, for the recovery o out g
any part of the goods stolen, on delivery of the
JOHN HARRIS,
Keeper Military Stores. !
I abriLl. __
NOTICE. Ffo
1 r-j—HRF.E Certificates of Six Per Cent. Deferred
1 I Debt of the United States ot the following
| description, viz —No. IOOJ3, 10034. and r°o3s, 1
1 for 5000 dollars each, dated Bth May, 1797> an p
1 (lan'ing on the books of the Treasury of the Uni
! t ed States, in the name of Benjamin Waddington,
of Lanover Houfe,near \bergavenney in England,
Esq. have heen loft by the capture ol the ship Bac- _J>
1 chus, from hence to I.ondon, in June last. r "' 9 > j
r fE c 1 therefore notifies those whom it may concern, that
' 15 } apj lication will be made at the 1 reafury of the u
lbe nited States for a renewal of the fame •
Waddington & Harwood. j*
I march at S 6w at]
"Notice is hereby given,
et, 1 r-piHAT application will be made for the renewal
I 1 of a Certificate of a Share in the Bank of the
I United States, Handing in the name of the Subfcn
-1 her, No. 5004, and dated July 11,1797 —thefamo _
I having been loft.
:s> I JOHN GRAHAM.
I march 5 foi
MESSAGE w
lOs the Preftdent of the United States, I
I To bovh Houses of Congress,
APRIL 3, '9B I
With, the Dispatches from the Envoys of p
the United States at Paris,
Which accompanied the Same.
for sale I
. At No. 63 North 3d flreet, at Way & Grass's j_
col - Printing-office, No. 27 Arch street. and at the
j office of the Editor, No. 119, Chefnu-ftreet J
I Valuable Property for Sale.
f. I FOR SAt.E,
I npHAT well known Estate, called SHR.EWS
i. BURY FARM, formerly the residence of I
,I,at General John Cadwalader, situate on Saffafras Ri
:r of vtri Kent county, Maryland—containing a- I
I bout 1900 acres of prime LAND, upwards of 500 l
)f ele- I K s which are in woods. The Buildings are all ei- |
cellent, and consist of a handsome Dwelling House, I
f ! two large Barns with Cow houses, Stables for fifty I
horses, a spacious treading floor under cover, a
L ' I granary, two Overseer's houses, two ran
)B. I g es of two story buildings for Negroes (one of
i I them nfcw and of brick), Corn houses, a Smoak
'l, | house ,&c. &c.—The whole Estate being nearly |
• I surrounded by water, it requires but little fencing, |
°T' nS and has a good Shad and Herring filheiy. .It is
t0 conveniently fitaated for both the Fhiladslphia and
'7' e 1 I Valtimore markets, with two landings on a navi- I
~ j gable rivtr but a (hort fail from Baltimore. There j
I is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on 1
the ptemifts; also, a variety of excellent fruits of I
nertifi- diircrent kinds,, The foil is mostly a rich loom.—
ties on whole will bt fold together, or divided into I
1 smaller farms (for which the buildings areconven- j
1 iently situated) as may suit the putchafer. The I
ne half j Stock on said Farm, consisting ot I lorfes, Cattle, I
■rvifors | Sheep, &c. will also l^edifpoffdof.——For further I
s other particulars apply to Oioise Hastings, on the I
y pur- I premises, or to the fubferiber, in Philadelphia. •
ed, any ARCHIBALD M'CALL, JUN.
r, upon j February 24. iaw6w I
:n Uol- FOR SALE, at
Wm. Young's Book Store,
I fold at I No - s % < Seeon<l {lrcct < ,he corner of Chefnut street.
ivaddi- D EPORT of the Committee of the House of
of the I AV Representatives ol the United States, appoint-
I ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
neU ', OI J J against WILLI BLOUNT, a Senator of the
n>"' Vi I United States, impeached of high crimes antfmif
<l," I demeanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of
, I the House of Representatives, authoriring the said
furni.S- I Committeetofit during the reccfs of Congress, and
nd pro- j | n ft ru aing ihcm " to enquire, and, by all lawful
1 " means, todifcovcr the whole nature and extent
<hia, the j « „f the offence wheftof the laid William Blount
1 " fluids impcache.i, and who are the tartiet and
r, I •' aiTcciates therein."
ajury. I by order of the Hiufe of Representatives
French Morning School.
G. DUF IE F,
Respectfully informs his friend. » n th = . f ■
public, that Us has removed from No.jt, INpu
Chefuut ftreel, to No. 63, South Second , ' lr " t '•
where he will open, on Monday next, t i
infl. a Morning School, from 6to 8. Heicon n- * (
ues to teach every day from 4t06 1U the after- tl
noon, and from 6 tiH 9 in the evening.
N. B. Private Tuition attended to as usual, and tcil
translations from either language into the other,
performed with fccfccy, accuracy and d.fpateh.
April 11.
A Nurjt Child Wanted. Any Ce
ANY person who may want to put a child Out, Any L'
may hear ofa place, by enquiring of Conrad anvC
Baker, near the town house, in the Northern Li- Uniti
bertiei. '3' a P nl '»• - ?<
PORT WINE,
In pipes, hogsheads and quarter casks
OF A SUPERIOR <SUALIT \ , A«vG
Tuft imported, in the Henrietta, P.cum , ( C xc
niafter, from Oporto, Any c:
' ALSO, ON HAND, cepl
300 bhls. New-York and Boftoil Beef Any C
Queens' Ware in crates A p y
Blankets in bales l^ r
Suns assorted in cases, Cutlnffes, Swords, &c. vide
For Sale by di'tr
THOMAS W JOHN' KETLAIfD. al>o<
Watnu: ft red wharf. dree
april 11. i£L- When
Pennsylvania Hospital, Andf<
ifth mo. Ith, 1798. Airy 1
rHE Contributors to the Pennsylvania Hofpi- ROO
tal, are to meet on the seventh day of nextppr 0« r0
Month, being the second day of the week, at the j
said Hospital at three o'clock in the afternoon, to
cleiSt twelve Managers and a Treasurer, for the j
ensuing year.
By order of a hard of Managers.
SAMUEL COATES, Sec'ry. A ™ r j
april 7 not
SILVER WATCHES. f.o,
use
Cash will be ffiven foCany quantity of low
priced SILVER WATCHES, by applying im- ' ;
mediately at No. 15 South Fifth flreet, between
Market and Chefnut ftreets
j April 10.
Now Opening,
jAtWillla mM'L Aw s Saddle Manufaftory, Jf
No. 72, Chefnut Street, ]f
A general affortmcnt of Horseman s if
Pistols, dire it from the ManufaSurers m London. Any
e ALSO ON HAND, llfl
Saddles, Bridles, Holsters, Half Covers, Light fs
Hbrfeman's Caps, Swords, Cartouch Boxes, Va- vu
lices. Saddle BagS, Portmanteau's, Haid Leather til
Trunks, Carriage and Chair Harness, &c.
April 9 Jtf -
'HE term of Co-.partnerfhip between the sub
scribers. trading under the firm of John Mil
ler, jun.and Co. expires this day, and by mutual
I consent will hot be renewed* The debts and con- /*ny
eerns of the fame will be fettled by John Miller, Any
Tun. to whom all those indebted to the pwtnerlhip, r.
e ' are earnellly requefled to make payment to, with- p,
° f out delay. An>
ke JOHN MILLER, Jan. si
ALEXANDER J. MILLER. r
February 19
LANDING, T
From 011 board the Ship Sally, from
■ed Calcutta, ' 1
ng AND ro* SALE BY THE SUBSCRIBE*, 31'
35. 1600 bags prime Sugar, *
ind 8 00 do. Ginger
ni- 30 bales low priced piece Goods.
John Miller, Jun. ]
nd > . 5 1
lac* I march 3 —2— \
hls > Alex. J. Miller iff James Davis, '
;h T a ' : Having entered into partuerfhip under the firm of
Alexander J. Miller & Co. of
INFORM their friends in town and country, that pel
they have opened a Wholesale Dry Good Store, th;
" at No . 6 4 , South Front Street, Philadelphia ; where
they now have, and intend keeping a general af
-1 foatment of India, German, Irijb, French anil Bri- m:
: W h tijb Mannfailurcs for sale, on advantageous termr- m
e for cash or a short credit. ft:
rami **""7 '9 £
Madeira Wine.
A few pipes of remarkably fine Madeira, fit
lW for immeJiate use, and at a reduced price For
j file by JAMES YARD.
I A P dZW - i
TO BE LET,
Andpojjejjion given immediately,
rs of A genteel three ItorybrickHoufe. pi
N •• 7, North Eighth street,
1 54feet front an -55 feet de«p, with a handfomc
Garden. Enquire at No. iaß Spruce street. o
roff's *P ril i
t the Just Received,
1 and for sale by
e. ISAAC HARVEY, Jun.
(No. 5, South Water Street,)
ews a Quantity of GeoTgia Cotton. i
nce of ALSO,
j" Prime Aux-Cayes Molasses j
of ?oo I Raisins in keg*
all ex- I Sugar in barrels —and
House I A few tons of Nicaragua wood.
>r fifty 4th mo. 4th .
IMPORTED,
ran- _ r
one of In the Brig Benjamin Franklin, from
Smoak I Bourdeaux,
nearly | A N D F 6r salb by the siißScnißEß,
encing, | Claret in casks
• It is j White wine in half casks
Ilia and I Sweet oil of a superior quality in boxes and baskets
a navi- I Lunelle ">
There 1 Sautcrne ( Wines in Cases,
ards on j Macarty, and f
ruits of I Medoc )
00m. — I Thomas Murgatroyd,
led into I No. 11, Walnut Street,
conven- I WHO HAS ON hand,
'• The I Bourdeaux Brandy in pipes Istitled
Cattle, I market 7 wines in cases. (', ( ° . ,
furth r I viedoc, and Sau'erne ) j drawback
, on the I sherry wine fn pipesand quarter caiks
>hia. I R ota
JUN. I Pimento in bags
iw6w I Two trunks of Umbrellas, and
I About 4000 bushels I iverpool Salt.
I march 19 mw&ftf
ut ftrcct LANDING
rloufeof From on loard the Schooner Ranger, from
appoint- I J ACQVRMELy
r'of'the 230 Bags, containing 30,000 wt. Coffee,
For Sale by
SAMUEL HAYS,
r t j-, e No. 117 Chefnut-ftreet
•refs, and Who has remaining on band 6,000 pieces In
ill lawful dia NANKEENS, of« superior quality,
id extent March 15. **6t
n rti«°and Hyson and Young Hyson Tea.
A few cherts of excellent quality, for sale, cor
ntatives ner of Second and Pine ftrests. a6 cots
treasury department,^
s »A. I—6—•» b - "™ d "ut
ted throughout the United States*
~ , evarv (kin or piece of Vellum or or fteet or pieee of Paper, *pon which shall be
wHtten or primed any or either of the inftrumant. or writings,ollow,ng-to v,.t; { Mlt
Anv fraSe"!'cert°ificate of the admiff.on,enrolment »r registry of
" any Counsellor, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Proflor, in any Court ot the
U that a Certificate in an/ one of the Courts of the United States
a„ A. o»w s«»
f exce'it for lands granted for military services } - " 4
Any excfiiplifVcntion or certified copy of any fuck grant or letters patent, (ex
cept lor lands granted for mi'itary fcn>tces) - -
Ailv Charter-Party, Bottcn.ry, or Refpondentia Bond, - .
Ap v Receipt or d'if harge for or on accouiitof any Legacy left by any Wil
ther testamentary iXnent.or for any fiia,e or part ofap-'^^i;
vided by force ot any statute of diftr(bnti«ns, other tUn to the Wife, UIII
dren or Grand Children of the person deceased.the amount whereofmaU H
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and shall not exceed the value of One
When Sell mount thereof (hall exceed th'e value of One Hundred Dollars and
full not exceed five hundred dollars, - , r .
And for evej-y further funt of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional sum of ,
Any Policy of Jnfurance or inflr.tnent in navre thereof, on any ship, \elTel ot-
infured from one diftrift to another in the United States, *5
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for wh.d
Infnrance is made f.iall not exceed five hundred dol.ars, - 5
When tin sum insured shall exceed five hundred dollar, *
"ttSSSu^a°r» s .
/ote or other nlte, other than any recognizance, bill, bond or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or with the United States or any fiate, or for their
dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars,, - , ">
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollar., 25
If above five hundred dollars and no? exceeding one tlionfand d > liars, 50
And if above one thoufund dollars, * " . . c i
Provided, that if any bonds or notes, shall be payable at or within fixt> days,
7uch bonds or noles fball be fubjeil to only two fifth part, of the duty
If and not exceeding one hundred dollaTS, - I 4
It abore one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dol ais 10
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, 20
s If above one thousand dollars, - v,» »(lah- '
Akv Notes iflued bv the kanks now eflabbftrcd, or that may hereatter
' IHhed withwTthe United States, other ,har. the note, of tuc.h ot the said Banks
t JfftaU agree an annual compofuion. of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by such Banks, to their Stockholders rdpeflively, according to
Ul exceediog fifty dollars, for each dollar, - -
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars 50
' c n ail notes above one' hundred dollar, and not exceeding five hundred
1- dollars, - . -
al On all notes above five hun.lred dollars, •
AnV •« invalid penfio ß , or to'obtaiu or Ml War- •
p, ranu for Land grant'e'd by the United States a, bounty for -.lit.ry_ferv.ee.
K * Aify CertTficateor ©'ebenttfre'for drawback of Cuflcms or duties, for lef. than . '
t. p'or five hundtd dollars and not exceeding two thousand dolkr., _ »
~ merchindize to be exported, _
I V f from one diltria together difirifl of the United States, not ing » the
m fame State, * , " . ~
. If from the United State, to any foreign port or place, 5
#ny r ca,.i
™,V»r q t.»a ,lj7o'»d. in virmt of any legilproctli officer,) jo
Any Certificate of a Share in any Inf.rance Company, of a share m the Bank ot ,
the United State., or of any State or other Barm,
If above twenty dollar, and' not exceeding one hundred dollars, -
ta. em P la l ,ed l».».«»rtto. .1 Diflna. for
Dre, thatpurpofe. IU
IS f.***"-vl'fe
Bri- may be pradicable, mar P» Juties before enumerated, on payment of the said duties ;Or
mr- mcnt or Paper, with any of the rates of dut e. before e. u ci l » f f the United Stat be (>b .
(lamped vellum XTJy Sunder, Infpedtor, Officer of mfpe^io-,
tf tuined at the rates preferred by law ry appi. ) Supervlfor , of DiftrifiU.
or other psrfon appointed for the diftriby n P . C IVEX under r,y Hand, at Philadelphia
tie day and year ■bovtment 'mnfd.
, fit OLIVER WOLCOTT,
> F ° r March 10. Secretary of the Tuofury.
Red Clover Seed of thebeftquality.
MADEIRA WINE,
Old, and fit for immediate use, m pipes, halt
pipe, and Quarter casks.
Teneriffe Wine, »,
And, Window Glaf«—all of which will be fold „
on v«ry reasonable terms, by e
John Craig, ]
march! w»tf No- 12, Dock f
NOTICE. »
ALL persons who have any demands against (
theeftate of Willam Flfetwood, ot ,
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de- ,
ceased, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly attefled ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, to
GBO.DOBSON, 7 AiminlJ lSr
No. 259'50. Third-flreet. 5
January 4.
just Published,
And to be had at the Book-flores of Mefirs. Dob
}oN, Campbell, Young and Ormiod,
in Philadelphis,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caules and Cure of Remitting «r Bilious
Fevers.
To ivh'icb it annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the op.nions and pra&iceof
different authors : and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting int«reftingfa<sU and refl'-Aions relative to
the Bynocbus J£ieroides y or \ eilow Fever, which
has oceafioned so much distress and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the seaport
towns of' th« I'nited States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE, .
c Ffclow of the Philadelphia College of Fhyficians,
and Member of the American Philoiophicd 60-
ciaty. Feb - i— _
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, theaoth
inft. Ticket, for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollar,, at Wm, BLACKBURN's Lottery
n and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-flreet—
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollari, where check'books are kept lor rigifler
■> ing and examining in these, the City of Washing
ton, No. ll.and Patterfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tkkcts maybe had in moll of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the State, of the
1- Union.
N.B. The bnfinefsof a Baoxxi, inbuyingand
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
~ Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
I. Lands, House., See. &c. will be duly attended to,
r _ b y WM. BLACKBURN,
f November ij. S
Salisbury Estate.
'PHE Subfcribcr, propofingto contra® Wi bufi- <
i ness. riffers this Estate for fa)e, on moderate
trrms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
3 complete Boteing Machine, and a wery good grift
Mill, with two pair of stones; also a pood Forge, all
in pcrfcft repair, as are all the Water Works eonneft
cd with these various branches. The Air Furnace*
-were lately bu»U tor thepurpofe of calling Cannon
for this State. —There are about two thousand acret
of Land, one half of which is under wood, theother
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Pasture. The Cannon lately mannla£Wed there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which it
luperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for notone of sixty-nine g«n»
lately made, although some of the 44 were bored
into 31 pounders have faiWd on proving. The fix
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branchof
manufafturr, and a place of atmi Jving in the date
of Connefticul.and only 30 miles from feveralland*
iflgs on the Hudson's river, and kaviog every advan
tage that can result from a plrnty of water ilTumg
from a large natural p-md, very near the Furnace,
and which maybe converted into a variety of other
afeful purports. The. purehafcr pan be accommodat
ed with all the flock and meotils, and havt poffefliun
on or before the firfl of Junenex', and preparation
may be made in the mean a< me for going into Blast im,
mediately thereafter, for every pait will be delivered
in good order, with fcrn-ie coal, Ore, Ac, tic. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph AntlKHiy.'in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, Efq.one of the Reprefentswve*
in Coigrefs for this State; Mr, David Waterman, on
the prermtes, or totheproprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee. 1. 3 awlf
NOTICE.
A ManufaSgry of yellow and delft ware,
Such as never was in this Country before, has been
been latelyerrfted at Tivoii, Red Hook Landing,
onthe East Bank of Hudson's River, state of New
York, where any article of various forta arid thapea
may be executed, as welt as earthero stoves upon a
new eonftiuftion, that saves three fourths »f tbefuel
commonly used in call iron stoves or open chymnies j
they are befidesvery whole tome and ornamental, by
applying to
P J. MOUCHET,
Wanted a flcillful hand to attend to the baking and
' glaxing part of the said ware. Generoua appoint,
inent.a will be given, A'pply a» above, or to
DAVID BROOKS, Esq. |
No. 71 South jth Street,
Feb. 19. eod 4*
e __——-—.— ——p— »
d Wanted, to Hire,
A I.arge and convenient HOUSE, in or neaf
the centre of the city—for which a gerteroua
j" I rent will begi*en; to be taken for a year, or on
' I more for a longer »«m. Inquireof tli« Printer.
0&. 17- i