By John Ward Fen no, N°- 119 Chef nut Street.
ftUMBEA >9 12 '3
r 'V' t .
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 2,(79*. [Ven/jus XIV.
Public Notice is hereby Given,
THAT Pro|»fals und«r faaledcoverj, will be
received on the behalf of the United States
until the twentieth day of Oflober next, by Jo- A, ,
• nathavt Jacklon, Esq. at Boston, M«fT«chuUtls, oj
Tench Fraflcis, Esq. Philadelphia, Pennfylva- tt
' nia, and John Swann, Efq- at Baltimore. Ma
l ryland, for fupplyiog the toil »ing articles of TT
. cloathinf, for :hx army of the United States,
'' fit whe
fOR INFANTRY.
8,448 Hats, of t
504 Serjeant Coats mist
504 ditto i veils cafe:
1,008 pairs do. woollen overalls infa
1,008 ditto do. linen ditto I ittvel
■ 2,016 ditto fhirn /<m>
1 164 Mufieians coats perft
f 7,680 Privates coates tick
1 7,944 ditto verts «< k/i
1 1.5,888 ditto woollen overal s ' s '■
15,888 ditto linen ditto an 'l
31,776 ditto shirts
33,791 pairs of Socks lle
33,711 pairs of flioe* !! °
8,448 flocks of black leather
' 8,448 flock clasps
8,448 -blankets.
i. FOR CAVALRY. a«c
6 Mulicians coats
16 Serjeant coats j '
26 ditto vests '
104 ditto fliirts •
r 348 Privates coats " !■
' 3J4 ditto vests in „
j 1416 ditto shirts j
760 pair of Leather breeches w ji
760 pair of stockings l, ar
760 pair of boots l cn
380 Stocks of black leather ' po,
380 Stock clasps the
380 Blankets. _ nic
id. Every article shall be made of materials, j
equally good, and in form, orfalhion, conform- j e i
ably to patterns for the fame, lealed with the da]
seal of the War-Office, and which will be de
posited with the several gentlemen, empowered thi
to receive the ptopofals, as above mentioned. |/Ii
2d. Sworn lnfpedkn* shall be appointed on by
the part of the United States, to examine and p °>
determiee upoa the several articles aforefaid, • t ' ,c
when the fame shall be ready for delivery, with
full power to rejeft every article, whic'n fliall not
equal, in gooilnefs of materials, or to be made
conformably to, the fafhion of tbe ftaiidard pat
tern for the fame; and no allowatict shall be
made, for any article which (ball be by
them, for the caul'es aforefaid.
3d. The propofaU mult fpecify the number of
*4 articles, and their kinds, which tbe party is,
willing to furni'h, together with, the lowest
prices for immediate payment in money, and al
io the prices, 011 Che longest term, or terms of
-h credit. wc
One third of each, and »very of the several tio
kinds of the above articles, to be delivered on
the fifteenth day of December, one third ou
» the fifteenth day of January, ai)d the remaining
'c. third on the firlt day of March next; and the.
public will not be coijfidered as bound to receive
any of the aforefaid articles of clofehing, which
shall not be ready for infpc&ieit, and deKvery,
at the periods agreed upon.
4th. The cloathing aforefaid will be received
in the several dates, at the places, and in the
proportions following, viz. One third part of Si
the the whole at Springfield, Maflachuletts, one
the other third at Philadelphia, flare ef Penafylva- b(
nia, or at Lamberton, ft ate of New-Jersey, and fp
on» third at Baltimore, Maryland. cl
ki- Jth. No contracfl will be maile, for a left tc
jhu number of each of the aforefaid articles of ir
t0 cloathing, than is rtquilite for a company, viz. n
and FOR THE CAVALRY. «
l ' le 4 Serjeant Coats r
er • 4 ditto vests
16 ditto shirts
1 Musician Coat I
58 Private coats h
*1 59 ditto vests
fcw, 236 ditto shirts
63 ftosks f
63 flock clasps
126 pair of leather bre«cli«s
- 126 pair of stockings
' 116 pair of boots
: b 'y 6t blanket,
FOR THE INFANTRY.
ils 70 Hats t
4 Serjeant coats 1
, Q ( 4 ditto vests f
8 ditto woollen overalls 3
ftly 8 dittb linen ditto 1
16 ditto shirts I
a Mufieians coats I
§ 64 Private coats f
6tS ditto vests
132 ditto wooien overalls
132 ditto linen ditto. I
2f'4 ditto Shirts c
280 pair of Socks f
280 pair of Shoes, f
70 Stocks, \
70 Stot k Clasps, (
70 Blankets. C
Mr. JAMES M'HENSY,
Secretary of War.
War Department, > ]
ills, lift Sept. 1798. > r
, r n a " John Haines tf Wm. Jones, "j
heir T) EG leave toinform their'friends and the public,
the D that they have commenced a Co-pattnerfhip
in ths SADDLfNG BUSINESS, which will in
tf future be sarried on under the firm of
HAINES (5* JONES, ;
n Market flreet, No. 132, one door above tbe j
corner of Fourth, —where they presume (at Vast
to h«pe) that their attention to, and knowledge in
ve _ bufinefj, their determination to fejrve oh the best '
terms, and their knows attacirAient as Native A- '
j mericans to the Government and Constitution of '
their Country, wdl entitle cheni to the encourage- I
j. ment of a generous public. Although they can- 1
l O' not hosft of having acquired their experience in ■
any part of Europe, yet they take the liberty of 1
r pledging themselves, that thoir manufaAure fhal
» be inferior to none in this city.
junc a 6. tuthstf
l "g Bank of the United States.
Philadelphia, September al, 1798.
° r The public is hereby informed, that
an Office of Deposit and Discount will he opened
on Monday next, at ths h«ufc la elv occupied by
in J° SaMusi, Rickardet, near the Market lioufc in
GermartOwn —where the bufinrfs of this tnHitu
''rCC tion will be tranfa&ed during the continuance o.
the malignant fever now r>revailinginPh3aHc!phia.
w HENRY KUHL, JJiflant Cqfbisr.
September a d ,
HAPPr DISCOVERT.
A certain Cur* for that siariniiv and dre.i!ju! Disorder
1 The Yellow Fever, A
As -well as any other Janverous^tu' r iJ fever fever and '
, a Z Uf ' ""d "titer em* derate and com titrated diseaseS) by
the itfe nf tbe aßc^
POUDRE UNIQUE,
f TTTEI.L known and patented in y^gland,France,
, W I'olanJ, and all tho capital cities in Europe,
where the mod aftouifhing cure have been effeel- '
ed on persons judged incurable by all phyficiant. .
In aTreatife printed in Loivloo, on the properties
of this by T. Seymour, M. O. late Che
mid to his Maje/ly, there are flatsd two hundred
cases, where this mofl valuable remedy has proved . ,
infallible, ill all kind of fevers, pJenrify, tlocdy flux,
inverate rhcumalifms, sciatica, apoplexy, ptialyfic, yel- .
lozv jaundice, ringworm, worms it* children and in grozrn
persons, white*, chronical head and Jltnach aches, bipa
tick and nepbrctical or flonc chclic, tbe lings roil, J,curvy
and the mojl inveterate and complicatsdvpicrcaidifeafe. I.'
islikewife the befl preparative foi the fniall pnx , C .'
andmeafies; ol the greatest utility for young as
well as for elder ladies at the critical epoch of their ~•;
life. The efficacy of this powder 10 several of the
above diseases has been <yicovered ky chance, and
so it has beeß in the yellow fever lift year, by Mr.
Mahy, who cured several by adiiiniftering only
two of the said powders, and loft rot a single pa- .
tient which he undertook to cure, 39 proved and
attcfted by the iicreannexed certificscs, whose ori-
gma\mzy he (ctn zl Andrew Hadfejrs u.-vbrclld fiop, r
No. 131, corner of Chefnul and Fourlhflrects, the ou
ly place where these powders are o bs had, with
proper directions for the use of thm.—Price two
dollars. ™
The ufefulnefs and certainty of tu'j remedy be
ing so great for so many dangerous liforders, any
person wifbing to be provided with hose powders, j
will please to apply very soon, as tie qs intity at .
hand is rot very large, aod it isdobtful if for a ' s .
long time, or if ever any other genne will be im- , '
' ported, the fccret remaining only i the hands of f e
the inventor, in Europe, and never eing commu- . rol
nicated to, or discovered by any oth> person.
N. B. In the yellow and putrid ferrs, this pow- ' e
[l_ der must be taken ths second, or at iail the third twi
le day. re "
e- We the fubferibers, durirg the he fickHefs in
ed this citj», having taken the yellow fevr, applied to
Mr. Mahy for his medical abidance,we do here- '! u
)n by certify, that by a certaiu powd«, cal od the P
,d Poudre Unijue, w« ware perfectly resvtred from
( j ) -the said fatal sickness, and from an xperience of
; h the happy fITcCls of the above most vlaable medi-
ot ciise, consider it our duty to make theinie known,
,| c for the benefit of our fellow citizens
Margaret Jones,
Mylus O'Connor, V
Jelfs Turner, „
3 y Christen Rebecca Dow,
Catherin Apple, ""
"f Ann Grover, thc
is, William Bills,
fft David Williams, carpe»ti, '
al- William T Donaldfon, irft-maker. w
of Mr. Muhy's welt known Plaiilcr, f" all kind of C
wounds and fores, to be had at the hove direc- P"
ral tion, No. 131, Chefnut street.
on august 8 aawtf wl
3 art
ou 1
ng ANOTHER STRONG PROF
Of the great and unparalleled elcay of
2 Dr. CHURCH'% COUGH )ROPS,
ry, Ip. tbe Cure of 1
Coughs, Colds, Asthmas & Caumptions.
Ed New-Tori, Julyio, '79s.
rhe 1 To Dr. Church, r-«
of Sir,
>ne For upwards of Twelve Tecs, I have li f nl
va- bored under a severe Cough, fhonefs of breath ao ,
ind spitting of matter from my lungsind often of f ul
clotted Dlood, till at length I waso reduced as
left to be unable to walk acrofe my r«m, and ow-
of ing to the vi lence of my cou?h U the fbort- pi
riz, ntls of breath could get no reft dr or night.—
Hearing of your excellent rtiedicit,, the Cough
Drops, I procured a bottle ; I tik a dose as
soon as I got it, from which I foud inftantatie-
and by continuing it f- three days,
I bl|fs God lam restored to perse. health. As
F believe you to has'e bee® the infument in the
hands of Providence, of saving ry life, I must
intreat you to publish this for the,efiefit of any
who may be in my situation, as am confident
it is one of the best medicines inhe world for
those complaints,
I am, Sir, jour grateful SivOnt' :
NICHOL AS.TAGG,
Little Rowor\-street.
CHURCH'S COUGH HOPS,
Are prepared and fold by thelnenfor and sole
proprietor, Dr CHURCH, at h Di.fp«nfary (
Washington-street, New-York,.ndat |iis of
fice, No 1, South Third-street Philadelphia, ,
and fold by appointment at Mr >eedman's 118
William-street, and Stilwell SOeforelt, 162,
Pearl-street, New-York. Marius, Albany,
Price, Baltimore, Thomas, AleinJiia, Wil
son, Wilmington, &a. &c.
OBSERVE
As a counterfeit preparation o this medicine
has been induftriaufly circulaterfhrough some
of the principal cities in the (Jni d States, per- C
sons are requested to purchase thti of Tuch per
sons only as have Dr Church's apomtment for
vending the fame. Powers, bughkeepfie—
Chappel, Head of Elk—Bond rid Co. New-
caftle—Heinitfh, Lancafter—Bljvelt, Brunf
wick (N.J.) Gordon, Treilfon&c.
*** letters (Post pai) addrcfled to
Dr Charch, New-York, duly aended to.
august 20 iaw3\i
f' iC) Public Notice is Heroy Given,
rfhip "PURSUANT to the adl of Cngrefs, palled
II in on the 12th day of June 798, entitled, r
" an aA refpeitmg Loan Office nd final fettle
ment certificates, Indents of intreft, and the
, unfunded or registered -debt c:dited in the
books of the Treasury."
, e j t| lft. That on the application o the creditors 1
best refpeitivefy, or their legal attornes at any time
eA . after the last day of December • the present
in 0 f year, the pr'mci ai sums «f the nfunded or re
age- giftered dtbt of the United Staes credited on
can . the books of the treasury, or emmiflioners of
ce in Loans will be reimbursed at thereafury of the
ty of United States.
: fhal ad. That interest upon th® nfunded or re
gistered debts aforelaid will ceae from and ai- 1
stf ter the last day of December in tie present year. |
' 3d. That the croditors refpitively will be ]
entitled on requifitioa to receiv from the pro-
J"' per officers of th* treasury, certflcates nf fund
nat ed three per cent stock, equal ti the arrtarages '
lened of Interefl due oq the dehls af.refaid prioi* to
d by the firft day of January, one thoifand seven hun
fe in dred and ninety one.
H.itu- Jjj order of the Board of ConmiJJioners
e °' of the .inking Fund,
Edward Joivs, ser'ry.
d
i. » «-/ w A.4 XWI *. V ) IJs
FOR SALE,
SALISBURY.
ALAKGE and well iroproied farm, cwiwia
upwards of twenty-five hundred aeres of U J
vel fertile land, remarkably well adapted to grass, J
and every kind of grain ; there are nuw oce.hud- . Wi
dred acres of Timothy meadow 1 n it, perhapwiot A m
excelled, from which, I have '■ var between que.
onehu»dred and eighty, »nd two Jn»< -tJ 101» of ftbji
-hay; upwards of three hundred of tf.is ordi
land may converted into meadow, equal.to that' Jn j
already made, the of which may be j r g
watered at a final 1 expence. There are ihi this
land, a oomivodious two story dwejliag-houfe,
completely finifhed, with ten rooms and a passage, jj
eight of thc room 3 have fire plac.cs; a portico it)
front, fifty feet ih length, and eit?ht wide; a large "
paled garden, a well of excellent water in the yardj _ '
also a barn seventy-two feet by twenty-fix, with I
fbeds at the Cdes aiid ends, fufHcient to hold f.xty t j, ; ,
heap of black cattle, a well conllruded ftahle, <uf- q o |j
ficient to hold twenty horfesr; wich every, other aß( j
building that may L« convenient - or uftful for" a ml ] £
larj;e family; if three hundred apple trees
(just beginning t» bearj of chosen grafted fruit, j on (
with a number of cherry, pear, quince, and dame- I q
foil trees, upwards oi two th'oufand bearing peac'v ——
trees. About one tovrthof the land iscleiireii, and
under good fence; thi pasture lands aru well taken, anc
with red cl»ver and other valuable grass. The re
mainder is in woods and generally well timbered.
The whole is well watered, having several conflatit
springs"; and two streams running through differ- 0
ent parts thereof, on one of them is a fmalj couo- Frei
try grift mill, and a saw mill. The purchaser can atte
have immediats pofT.fEon, and may be accommc- ''tat
dated with twenty valuable field negroes, with "1 C
horses, black cattle, fhee'p, hogs, and every nectf- sent
fary farming Jaliibury is situated in cx- tati
cellent neighbourhood, and remarkable healthy,
is twenty-fix miles by from Alexan
dria, about twenty mTI-ifrom Hptanaack bridge at
the Little Falls, a»d not mare than -twenty-live
from thc city of Wafhingto®, and on the poll road
lrom Alexandria to Winch<;(ter, A small part of
the purchase monej, will be required iu hand; one, (
two, and three years credk vill be given for the
. , ' 0 wit,
remainder. ■
Mr. Zacchcus Collins of Thiladelphia will give t
any gentlemen who apply to him an account of the
situation of this pUec. For futtficr particulars ap- j
ply to the fubferiber on the prtraifts. 'J__
SrMUEL LOVE.
Virginia, Fairfax county t>
September 24. 1708. law. | ,
ADVERTISEMENT. I'"
Sta
inc!
WHEREAS James CoMMtuo ss" Co. late ol bor
the city of Philadelphia, merchants, have fQ ,
affigried over all their effeiis, r;al, personal and fe g
mixed, to the iubferibers, for the benefit of all w j|
their creditors, who shall fubfer be the said afiign
ment within fix months from ths date hereof. •
NO VICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, to all persons J th( ,
who are indebted to the said efiate, that they aro
required to make immediate payment of their rel- ■
peelive accounts, to the Assignees, at their offioe,
No. 62, Dock street, in failure whereof adiont
will be instituted for the recovery of such debts as y
are not discharged accordingly. I
John Travis, "1 Jfo,
John IVaddinglon, I Affi **
James Taylor, f
Cornelius Comegys J
august 18 ruwftlD to|
' ' r ' " fa]
TO BE SOI.D,
THE time of an indented Dutch Servant BOY tsi
who has ten years to serve- He has had th< Ri
small pox and measles, is aAive, hearty anl strong, q
I and fit for honfe work in town or country. Fcr
further information, eiquire ef the printer.
1 august 4 it. L
■ ij'. i .. —"itn —rr: —~— T
• For Sale,at the Scores of the Sub- I
fcribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
J 195 cafics of nails aflorted
' 20 bales 6(f fail caftvafs, from No. Ito 8
5 3 casks yellnv ochre O
' 1 5 tierces bqttled-porter, 6to 14 doz each w
e Londojl-particular) Mar!cira Wincs B
, India uiirket ) A
Teneriffedo. in hoglheadsand pip in
' Old Port'do. in hlids. at
1 Empty Cliret battles at
r 6 cases of Gijifchams, Dimities, Miiflineti &c. ft
alTort?rJ for the market tt
4, 10, and 9 iftch cabJesand 10 coils of cordage r<
Writing fiates, ink ftandsaad presses 01
20purcheoRS Jamaica rum tt
I bale Teaming twiflt. d
e 160 bundles (heattiiiig oaper
.' NiMn Griffith.
i apri! 7 tutn&f.tf
g -
i, Bengal .Goods, *
', CONSISTING O.F *1
1- BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS, t]
Chintz Coffas Mahai;azgungy
Chinfz Guzziaas Tookertys
15 Eliabad Baftas Wrought Muslins
i C Long Drawers
r . Coarse Sugars in bags, fit for the European markets
[I. ALSO, "]
)r Carolina Indigo J
_ Coffee in hogihejds \ v
A few pipes of very otd and very choice Madeira . (
T WINE >.
For Sale, «n reasonable terms, fcy
John Craig, ;
No. 12, Dock-ttreet.
ju'y 14 mwstf 5
NOTICE.
Bank of North America,
Augujl 2%th, I 798.
' e ' Perfens who h.ve Notes 01 Bills to pay
X at this Bank are informed,
' C That regular Notiws will be put under a sealed
cover directed to the refpeitivn payer and lodged
in the Pod-Office every Monday untH the return
rS of the citiaens.
Ie RICHARD WEILS, Coji.k:-.
Aug. 29 _
SOUTHWARK.
of 03oler 8, 179?!.
T>UBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY
• e . JC GIVEN, That the Cotwtiiflloners of '
if- the Diftrift of Southwark have remoted
» r - their Hall to the usual place, commonly
known by the name of James Lille's School,
j* Honfc, in coafequence ef the rapid decline
I e * of the Epidemic Fever, especially in the
to vicinity thereof.
ln . By order of the Bo ard of Commi/Jioner
Wta. LINNARB, President.
, Attest,
' William Penrose, CWrk. fro tern.
October 9 <t
CUSTOM HOUSE,
C/jeJier, l%d Qfl t
i- NOTICE
To the MERCHANTS of Philadelphia.
>, The owners and consignees of goods by the
- . Willmn Penh, Philadelphia, Jane, Kingston„
t .'i miable atid other vefTel.s lately arrived, are rt«
n quefleri to forward to- this Office a; soon as pcs-
Gbje, their refpedive entries and invoices, in
» , order that permitsfor.landing may Up prepared,
I f nd r "dy to hand them, so soon as the return
* mg health of the City will admit (he velTels to
go up. A due attention to tbi* notice may be of
' anrvemeuce to the merchants, who probaWy
' will be Hefirous to receive their goods veryex-
J peditioufly. , GEO. LATIMEK,
J _ ,Qt CfJ/nftor,
' THE Owners of Goods on board
>' th»fh>p William I'ef.N, ore iafarmtd rh lt rt)e
" Collector of the Cu.loms will receive such Invoices
aad entries as may he forwarded to him, and will
make the necessary calculations ai.d prepare the
s bonds fa that permits may be granted mnediattlr
■ on the as-rival of the (hip at Philadelphia.
~ Oaober 2,. §
i This Day is PuMifhed,
'» AND FOR SALE BY J. F C N"Np» t i O,CH E4-N 0 T-S i»r » T
Aft ADDRESS
t To the People of Maryland.,
ON the, origin, progress and prefe Ht ft&te of
. French aggrellion, wit)! a sketch of the inferno tit
ii attempts to degrade the Oorersment of the Unfttd
_ Sjatev, and fomc refleclions on the late proceeding s *
h ill Congress; written the lafi of April in the nrt
sent year,, by a Member of the House of Reprefen"
" S, . j.une 11 *
r » " - ■-
;; Pennsylvania Hospital,
■e-.--.__ ~ r, i ffi.
d ]SJ° P'rfon witn an mfeflious difeafc, can be*
)f 1 > admitted into this hoiife ; it u therefore ear-
Bj neftly recommended to the citizens, not to fend
orbing any such patient to the gate, who is iil
with the prevailing fever. Seviral persons having
>e been font here improperly, is the reason of giving
e this caution.
H Manors,} Pk^NCIS HIGOtNS,S/™V.
y Ten Dollars Reward.
DESERTED from tke Gttard House in New J
Callle, this morning, Stephen Bowden, a
private Marine, belonging to the Frigate United
States He is akout 36 year- of age, five feet ten
inches high, fair complexion, light h;.ir, blue eyes
' horn in England, and by trade a Bricklayer. Prier'
to the sth of June, the date of his enliitmsnt, I *
. resided in Philadelphia, where it is probable he
will endeavour to go. Any person who will ap
prehend the said deserter, and secure him in any
jail within the United States, (hall be entitled to
,s jthe above reward.
" F. WHARTON, Capt. Marines.
New-Caflle,OA 8.
e,
it TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
as PVESERTED from my Detachment at Borden-
JL/ town this day, a Marine, by name Georyt
Rodman, a Native of Irelacd about 25 years of age
frva feet eight or nine inches high, dark con.p'ec
s tion, black hair tird; black eyes well made and
quarrelsome <when in liquor is fond of singing had
on a blue seaman's jackett light pantaloons, cot
ton Stockings, round Hatband had under his Pan
taloons a pair of Nankeen Breeches.
Whoever apprehends and fends the said Dcfer-
Y tsr to the Marine Camp, shall receive the above
h< Reward.
October 11,, 798? HEN r RY , A " WILUAMB,
cr 7 b L.t. Marines
PROCLAMATION.
r>Y virtue of a precept from John D. Coxe,
3- 13 Efqeire, president 01 the court of Oyer and
Terminer and general goal delivery for the trial of
all cipital and ether, offences in the county of
Bucks; ind Henrt Wtnkoo* and Fiancis
Murray, judges of the fame court—A covrt of
Oyer and Terminer, and general goal delivery,
1 will be hfld l at Newtown, in the said county of
Bucks, on Mqriday the ,?th day of November next.
All these who will prosecute againf) the prii'oners
ill the goal of said county, are required to be then
and there to profecuteagair.fi them as (ball be just
arid all the jurtfees of the peace, coroners and con
kc. stables, within the said county, are required to hi
then and there,in their proper persons, with their
age rolls, records, inquisitions and examinations and
other their r<membrances,todothofe rhings which
to tfieir offices belong, in that behalf to be .
done, &c. DANIEL THOMAS, fheriff.
_oa, 4, ?.l\\ X 3 taw
FLOUR FOR SALE
:f By the Subfcribtrt,
Deliverable at any of the ports on the Dela.
ware —who have also on hand at their fiorcs, a.
quantity of Bar Iron, Pork and Corn—Letters by
ths post will be attended to.
Levi HoH'tngsivorth & Son.
augufl rB. <itf
;;WILLIAM M'LAWc, '
ket» SADLER & HARNESS MAK^.R,
HAS Removed to the Corner of Chef Hut
and T op the Commons,
wihere he will rerrive execute the orders of
cira hjsfriends and wholesale cuftoraers, with ttTual
attention & expedijion during the prevalence of
}lje present Epidemic, where it has not made its
[ipearance this season, nor dvriug any of the
: f years . '
Ft)R SALE,
The Cargo of the Schr.siHcerity
Benjamin Mouteith Master, from Lagaira,
consisting or
945 Fenegas of Cocoa
aled 400 a lb. of
I j alO Bale? of Cotton
„ 4 Packages of Goat Skins
By Willing/ & Francis.
3, No. Eleveath.flre#t»
july ti . - ' X' ifef
Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
' S Y Searfaukers and Carradarrics^
r of the Kwell ahdni»ft approvedpatterns.eatitled
s 0 to the drawback, just received,
an» roa sale
>nl T Alex. J. Miller'd Co.
001. No. 64, South Front flreet.
lliae !*ay 18. {
the FOR SALE, by
<ner John Miller, Jun.
t SO. 8, CHtSNOT ITREIT,
100 hoglheads RUM,
Of high preof and. fine oavosr
ft j«'y l 9
fREMOVAL.
THF. office al the Secretary «f tfie Cefrirtiiflion
ers tor cafry!ijg into effect the twenty.sirs.
article $f the- treaty ef iriehdlhip, liniiti and navi
gation, between Hi» Catholic Majesty and t ie U
nited Stat 9 of America, i»,for the prcfent, remov
ed from No V 4. foutK' Second llreet, to a large
two (Wy brick house on the right hand, going
up the Germantpwn road, ufuaily called Milters'
house. -
Thole concerned are infortned that, notwith
fiandiag the prevalence of the fever in Philadelphia,
daily attendance has been, and will continue to be
given at the laid office, nntil the return of the citi
zens ; & that on the seventeenth day of November
irext, the rrtra of eighteen months will expire since
the day on which the enmm iflioners alTembled
after which period no complaints or applications
can fo/Ttily be received by them
Letters and inclofures poll-paid will beduly at
tended It by.
PETER LOHRA, Secretary.
OfloberlS, 1798. 5 lot
Jufl imparted in pips William Perth, A
miablt and Jean,from London,
A quantity ef Cannon,fizes 4,6 & 9 lb. \ with balls
Carronades, n Tbs. J suitable
Mufc [net*, MufquetconSjCutlafles anil") w
Piftoli, for {hips afe,
Rifled barreled Oubs, Fowling Pieces, 1 g n"
■ and Herfcman'sPiflols, f
400,000 Flints, chiefly for muflcets, in j ' S*
kegs. j «
Regulation Light Dragoon Sabres, with Iron"scab
bards.in cases of 50 each,
Light Cavalry Swords i» Cases
SabrA, Sword* and Cutlaffi'S, with plated mounting
Ironmongery And Cutlery in calks, a general af
fortmest—For Sale by
Thomas £3* Jno. Ketland,
Philad. October 25.
A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
JOHN A. SHAEFFER, «f Philadelphia, who has
for a few years pad been in the sou: hern States,
has had the effrontery to draw several Bills of Ex
change on Timothy Pickering, Esq. Secretary of
State, and myfelf.and by that means hisdefraudsd
a number of pertons of their money, deceiving
them by an exhibition of Inters and papers with the
names affixed of divers public chara&eis and repu-.
table merchants highly recommendatory of said
Shacffer; to one of these papers I find my name
fobferihed, but Ido not know the man ; these arc.
villainous (fag*rie?! To prevent further imposition, .
1 have to request the printers of Newspapers in the
United States topublifh this f»r the benefit of their
fellow-citizens. SAMUEL MEREDITH,
Trcafurtr of th United Statti.
Trenton, jVrrp Jerfey,l
Othbcr 14, T798. J
United Statbs ">
. Pennfylvin'a Diftri&. j
IN pursuance of a writ to me dire&ed frosi the
honorable Richard Peters, efqr. judge of the
ciftriit court ol the United State?, in and for the
f ensfy'vania iiftricl, willbe e*pofed to public sale,
at the borough ot ChcKer, in the county of IVa
ware, on Monday the sth diy of Novembir next,
at 11 o'clock at roon,
I large new cablt 1 $ pieces of fail cloth
I do. worn do. 1 fhip'e bell
i faiali do. do. 7 iron bound water calks 1
I cable about ? inches \ demcraft or rrachine
\ 1 ° ; 5 to press goods when
1 coil of cordage loading
2 do. of do. n;w l iron crane*
3 founding lines of one 1 new flag
hundred and foOrteen, 1 do. jack
and fifty fathoms t pennant
I mai.i Ail 4 copper kettles and lids
I fore-top-fail 2 tea kettles
1 main-tep-fail I coffee kettle
1 j' l ' A small copper pot ic lid I
1 mam-top {by-fail 4 ccmpafli» 1
3 liudding-fails A small anchor
4 under lladding fails 35 calks of rum and about' «
I fun fail I 1 a casks of sugar. j i
The arti.ljs aforefaid being now on board the c
brig Sptcialaaion lying at Cheller, in the port of 1
Philadelphia and diftridt of Pennsylvania— The c
, fame having been saved from the wreck of the I
Danilh IhlpDenGodchenfight at sea, and libelled I
againfl for l'alvage.
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marfiial. I
Marlhal s office,©6l. jr. I .
To lie Let, J
For Six Montis, from the frfl of Neveit- r
bir next,
A C9MMODIOUS three story brick ho'ufe, d
A w ' lh extensive back Jjuildings. Ctuated I n
No. 153, South Second Street.—For terms 1
apply to I E
JAMES LYLE. A
South Seventh, near Chefnut Street. °
October 29 I n
To Be Let,
And immediate pojfejfton Given,
A COMMODIOUS Three Story Brick House
J- y with convenient back buildings, lltuated
at the north weft corner of Third and Walnut
fleets.—For term 9 apply to I -
Dr. THOMAS PARKE.
o , No * South Fourth Street. I
Oflober 29 dtf jj,
To be fold or Rented, 5t
THE' f.bfcriber'B house, No. 78, Walnut
street, wuh a callar and two stables Poffeffion or
lh« house will be given early in November— the I ~
stables an 4 cellar immediately.
GEORGE MEAD.
October 24,
Whereas the certificate of two T i
<hare» of the Bank of the United States in the J°
name of Samuel Amory, of London, banker,! _
No 3iß2,iffued in lieu of 11593, H594, were I ~
forwarded from London by the Britilh packet
Countefj, of Leicester, capt. Dodd, bound for I /
New-York, which packet was captured by the I
French, and the said certificate lolt; and for the I fcr
renewal of which, application is made at said I me
Bank, aad all perlons concerned are deGxcd to I et
take aotice. I inj
CLEMENT BIDDLE. I a 2'
Fhila. Ofl. 26, 1798. eo6w | mt
Notice is hereby given,, I
THAT application will fce made to the treasury ( of
pi the United States for the renewal of (he follow- vill
i»g certificates of fix per cents funded debts, Hand- I rec
• in the name of Jane Gabritlh Rigaud, of Geneva, I the
which were loft from on board the Swallow Pack- I
et, Capt. l£idd, from Falmouth to,Ncw-Yoik. I I
NO.3F9J. Reg. office i9thMay» ? j[, ice Ft.for 1000 I A
13>l8i. do. 14th do. do. 1 do. for 3500 I
Willing V Franeii. I late
OSobcr »4» eod6w. I r . e S
— I the:
Notice is hereby g?Ven, lareI are
THAT applioation will be made to the Treafu. I
ry of the United States, for the renewal of the I
following Certificates of Six Per Cent Funded
Stock, Handing in the name of Jib* Cartbiell, of I
London, the ftid Certificates having f ©en loft on I J
board the Swallow Packet, Captain Kidd. from I won
Falmouth to Ncw-Yoik. I Q f ],
Ato. 3072 t (Jert. for 3COO dolls. > cr to
2964 i do. 5000 V f A g
10 »J77 1 3CCO J I £ ,nK
IVilhngt & Francis. I ( 1
fhfiadWfliii, august 30. ec6w I
JAMES & RICHARD SMITH,
.mission H A I- th^K <f r Cd ,h * c ° an "T to
•ntv-firfi t^Blr S ! No. (4 Souca Front-ftrect,
nd nav'- w " crt for faie, uiual.a large and ge
, j! nerai uiJ'oriaient of European and East-India
, r .!v DRT GOODS,
a large mo(l ol which l ave now arrived and are landing,
I, going f ro m the different vessels, from Hamburgh, Lon-
Mnlters' don. Liverpool and Hull.
Their Cuftomets by applying will find almost
lotwith- every article generally imported, and at as low
delphia, prices for calh or credit,as they can be had elfe
ne to be where. \
the citi- N. B A few Cases of Nurenbergh TOYS, a
ivember consignment, to be fold by the cafe only,
ire since PhiladeUhia, Nov. i, 1798. dtf
cmbled
iicatmns 'lh e Subscribers
luly at- HAVt JUJt RECFIVPD A* INVOICE OF
Choice C hefhire Double Gloucester
e, «t- cheese.
£Per tlie Chesapeake from Liverpool.J
"> A- 100 Boxes of Window Glass,
1, Of various sizes, per the Jane, from London,
ith balls They have also for Sale,
uita.iie. 200 Casks of Refined Salt-Petre,
_ ANDA QUANTITY OF
Fine Castor Oil.
1 S James C. & Samuel IV. Fisher.
£ November i dtf
> n " sc * b - * Jamaica rum,
A Cargo now landing at Southflreet -wharf,
ounting FOR S^LE
erul as- PETER BLIGHT,
Apply at Stores on the Whirs,
J WHO ALSO »FF£f,S FOR SALE,
BRANDY, id and 4 th proof '
Madeira and Port WIN£S, ice. &c.
,IC. Nov 1 dtf
nrhohas Forty Dollars Reward.
1 States, T °ST, on tke road from Mount-Holly toPhi-
JofEx- ladelphia, cn Monday 19th O&obcr, 1798,
:ary of ~ e following NOTES, payable to the fubferiber :
raudsd u Dolls. Cts.
ceiv.ng *•' J' zl beth Norman, of June 29
.ith the 1 7c6, at 6months,for 333 33
3 repu-. Do»fame date,at 12 months, 2-1-1 12
of said P°', m °nths, 333 33
f name . J ac °b Norman, September 30
fe are '79J, at 6o days, 60
ofition, . Thomj s Potts, Sept. 16, 1796,
»in the at 60 days
t(their Doane, August 17, 175,6,
TH, at 6 months 440 6o
IStatfj. lamc date, i; months 1 440 60
P®' d°. it month# 440 60
M ean & Van Emburgh's note,
" dated Novembtr 9,1796,- at 60
d3 J s " - - 1150
the Da.Nov. 16, 17»6,at 60 days 1175
)f the , thaß Fleld > ov - 4, 179 6 . « 1
»r the T . „ - - Bjo
ic sale, J°^ n Negus, December 5,1796, at
Ile a- T r 6o . da J 3 " - Boj 89 <
r next, J°7P h ' Norman,AprU »6,1797, a t ]
60 days , 40 (
David Scull, Jiiy 18, 1797, at 60
T 137!I 37 !, 8 t * * ' j6 98 <
John Perry, Janual-y 1,1798, at 6
r calks months . . »6o to c
achine Do. do. Ii month* 371 C
whfn Ber.-jamin F. Gtrrigues, February
I JI > *798. atone yaar - 6co
P° - * years 600
Do. do.* 3 years 600 J
/"■ 4 years 60a
, Wmonand cu. sote.May 8, 1798.
d lids at 3® days . XO o
I Row and Simmons, June it, 1 ?q8 (
at j days . . V J3J . 5
& r, "L wo Lotter y ticliets indorsed oh the back John C
R. 1 aylor and John Clark. 1
There are feme oiher Notes, Draughts & Orders c
about of no use but to thefubferiber—Any person fend
• . ' n S 2® fama and returning them to Mr. Aleiati I
d the der Shiras in Mount-Holly, cr to the fubferiber, t
_ ° N ?' SS- North Wa t c t street, Philadilphia, (hall re- r
-1 he j ceive the above reward and no questions aflced.
Ua 1 y T nt bei " g fto PP e(< . thf y can be of bo use •
>cilcc I but to the owticr.
~1 IVI l OHN CI.ARK. ];
al Not - »• dtf ['
—— I Last Notice to the Creditors and
Debtors of John Shields.
1 ' I are requested to render their Ac- *
I -*• counts against him, made up to the 33d ''
o'ufe, I ° a T ®f August, 1797, the date of his Assign- a
jated I ' hat a Dividend may be promptly made. c
erms I *he last to pay off their Accounts, Notes, and n
Bonds, before the firft day of December enfuine
I. that remain unsettled after that period, will f (
reet. I , P ut into hands of an Attorney at Law, d
I tor recovery.
Attorney, (in fa<») to the
Aflignees and Truilees of la
oufe I , J. Shields. a j
ated I No, 21.
ilnut November I, 1798. dtf.
I 6l
!. The Subscriber's Office
reet. I Being REMOVED from the COUNTRY
~ "."xT ° PEN " tht USUAL PLACE, No!
56, North Fourth STRtgr.
H November j. SAM *
n or j 3 td ]
-the ~ f i J
10 Lett, a«
tf 71 HE house » No - North Se- r w '
0r without a store and stable
WO he house is large and convanient ; enquire of T :
the J , t ' < > No - 40, North sixth street. ,
ker, Qflob " 31- w&fa tf gc
eke! Elght D ° llarS '
f ° r A. OB BERY was committed on i
u e I r u • ' 7th inftant > ar the house Of the fub
rM I m'' It fOW " fti P of So,e bury by two negro ]
said me-i,—.they carried off a quantity of calh ; a p#c!t- ]
I t{> et book, containing foaie valuable papers: wear- F
f >ng apparel, &c—One «f the negroes is a middle 1
I aged man, known by the name of John White, for- an r
v men/m r v' de " t of , Phl ' ade, P h i*. has an impedi- „„
- ment m his fpeech-the other supposed to be si '
| a runaway, about eighteen years of aee- of '
ury °f middle stature. Whoever fecares the aforefaid
3W- \lllalnsfo that tbey may be brought to jiiftiee, shall . ®
nd- receive e.ght dollars reward, or'our for either of
:va, I them taken separately. n
ck " _, , ISAIAH fuCKEMONEY.
Solebury, i 0 Mo. 19th, r 79 S. lftw
olds. I
xso J A LL PERSONS hjving any legal demands a
-100 , ,hc of William Jece fed A
c,t J , s os Philadelphia, Tavern kee, er, are
| requested to furmlh tbtir accounts properly au- ' C,m
—-1 thenticaied, and all persons indebted to said estate its
Sk-i!??'T- " makc P a > lUC " t to the fnbfcr;b«r in ble '
r„. I ' ad elphia. . quir
he I n4J £ VI HOLLINGS'WORTH Adminr. j A
ed OiSobcr 31ft, 1798. I lor',
of I 7 ci
un A young woman from England, ~~
m would w.fh to engage with a Jady in the capacity
los lady s-mauf, or m situation of a houfj keep.
ll e ro a , gculccl fain,l f» or to» fmgle gentleman.— A
J A good recommendation can be procured from -**-
I fomc ol the most refpeilable famiiie's in this city. V
I thU o a r « t " lat * cnquire at ttc P'Wing office of JEnqi
j O<Mckw. e,, t j ; u ;
„ Just Imported,
ntry to ron "snm, double fortified,, Woolwich p; oof,
: street, Wlt h their carriages complete— 3, 4, 6an J a
nd ge- ponnde-s.
1 Carronadcs, Wooltvuh proof, with carriages, &c
complete— 1 a, ,g and 24 pounders.
j- Gannon powriur in kegs of ajlbs. each
Round, double-headed, and cinnittsr (hot
, on- Patent flieathing copper, bright, aflortcd 18, 20,
,l_ » * 3 " i4 .> *nd 28 or per fquar- foot, fhetrs 48
. y 14 'Och«t, suitable for v.ffalj from 100 to
as low 1000 tons
d else- Copper nails, bolts and fpil«:s
, vt Boarding Piles,
JU| 3 Common curtafTcs
Gunners stores of all kind.
c Tin-plates Ko 1—1.3 croft b<-xes
latent ibot in calks of scwt. each
London porter anrftirown ftay® in calks «f 7 doz.
0F bottled.
,p(l er Earthen ware is crates, a flirted
C For Sale ly
SIMON WALKER,
3001.J I'ine near sth flreet.
f s O(Sober 29. eo tf.
melon, -d French Classical 8? Mathematical
SCHOOL.
etre, °P on Monday the 22(1. instant
* V at that commodious room formerly
occupied by i/tr. Loo in Morris's Alley, No. 15,
neer 'y°ppofite the City Tavern; unJer the direc
'tfber. tion of Meflrs. Smith and- Chandler both oflibe
dtf ra ' education, and long experienced in their re
' fpeAive proffilions— As they intend under, th«
patronage o! a discerning public, permanently
tharf, to eftabJilh tienifelves in this undertaking. their
Whole ltudy in 1 attention f/ill be devoted to the
IT, «nprc*emcnt as their pupils —Thcfe willbcaon
f, cu upon the latest an 1 most approved plans,
through a conplete comfc of academical (Indies,
or thole parts wily that may be pointed out, as more I
immediately aJapted to theirpariicularviews in life |
dtf —Certain poaions of their time wiH be assigned for i
geographj ,hitory, extrafls, cotnpofition, and de |
c.amations In French and Englilb, is order to form
- early habits c" writing and fpeak.ng with propn- 1
, H "y -Vlflts f*>™.f-»r.nts an l literary chafers, ,
■(7'.' tendn * t0 a '' tc aMpirit of emulation, will be
ler . gratefully rvctived. Ine hour.* of iludy are from
<-t». 9t012 A. M aqd from 2t05 P. M <
They offer t. tranflatethe
33 an 1 Portugufe languages; arid to draw in thiir c
33 mcdziand ftije, all kinds of writing, whe
-33 ther legal, coimercial, or epistolary.
Ihe til it >Vbnday in November, they also pro- f
00 pose to open ji evening Ichool for French, book-
keeping/furyyiug and navigation, of which they c
have a pra&ici as well as theoretical knowU dge a
As a numher f French gentlemen will attend, the f,
o students ol'thir language, by continually convert- ,
® wg with vhen, as well as their teachers, will ac-
1 u ' re > Mth the principles, a facility of ex- a
jprtffion. _ \ f
AVIS aitx FRANCOIS : d
Mefi'r; Chandler ct Smith ont u
I'honneur de >r*venif M.M- les Francois, quits fe P
proponent d'eiblir une Academic en Norri' alley, 0
No. ij ; pnque vis-a-vis la Baurfe; dans la- ei
S9 quelle on la langue Latine, Angloifc et r
yrancaife : l'.rithmetique, la tenue des livres, la
Geographic, ties Mathemntiques. IT
°.i fait auftoutcs fortes de traduaions dans les
jS dites langues et denne lecons chez les particuliers. m
Qu'on f'adreffe a l'hotel de Mr. Vallette au Y
so coin cc 4emr ue ct Cherry alley. j
° a ° btr J 7- ood tf j'
Dr Yeatman's p
Anti-peftbntial Preservative and %
nti-bilious Pills, /s
ARE earrllly recommended at this SealblJ, fit
againfthe Fevers that prevail. Prepared ,h
an.l foldonlyjy the Subferiber, who feels it ne- L
fohn ce^jr y to emrace this opportunity of acquaint- C
ing the Pubt, that he received a regular edu- bc
Jcr» cat ' on ' n Eranches of Hi
ind- Physick Surgery, £» Midwifery, P }
*an- Under his Rher, and other eminent men in
'oer, the citias of ondon and Rriftol, and (in the ral
're- course of twty-eight years) has seen the ma- tf.
uff . ny „ g ? od effcls of tUs ' n conpparable medicine, lo;
m Bilious, Jsndice, or Hepatic cases, Dropsy, P h
Rheumatifm,Lues-Venerea, Scurvy, Worm ca
ts fes, Mafignai and other Diseases, proceeding v
from acrimor and P e
■nd "HE PILLS hu
Are prepatl according to true medical prin- ""
Ac- • l P' e8 > and rry be fafely taken by the most de- P e '
licate In boes of a quarter dollar, and half
ign- a dollar, witltliredlions, and staled with his Fo
ule. crest, motto. None else are Ge- lin
and nuin l; n ra i
ing N. 84,B 4 , "he anti-pestilential pre- fai
wilt fervative, wAjufed with great success at Lon- p!r
»w, don, VarfeiH, Bristol, and other Cities, tio
nr .VttJ we rcf visited with the
the In bottle*ola quarter dollar and half a cfol- ai
'ol lar, with Dirdions, and the Corks seated as ont
above. p rc
CftRLETON YEATMAH. °P ;
1_ SouthEaftcorn-ofLombard and Second firects,
New Market. anc
Y "fl»ber 2 xaw. tn pul
io! Canal Lottery, No. 11. °P'
Confiderab! more than Half Drawn
t ?" k ' eve ry & Tutfiiay .
I IC^?r T r S ri r Sa,e ' StVC " each, a' T
~ j„ WILLIAI BLACKBURN'S Lottery ,he
a«d Brokers offe, No. 64 South Second-street, tfie
e- l "? ts ire for examination and fieri
_ regifter.ng in th, City of Washington No. 2. led;
of i, nd Pnc L.teiies and information where w ;,]
Tickets may be id ,n most of the Lotteries.au- p' '
thonfed by laum any of the States of the f I
_ union bait
Stai of thi WaiUi chic
Onepriacof 10,000 dollars f 0,000 arc
. n , lve 4»oo© ao,ooo Ror
V° I,co ° 4,000 an d
ro Nine l,oc o 9 ,000 r
Nineteen JOO , lJ0j) L
r- Forty-four 200 |J OO | cern
le With a full paportion of the one hundred t ' lus
r- and of the fifty <j|| ar prizes—the price of tick- "
kl !V* w ' oon rife ,particularly on account of the to al
of » m 4 '? oo , f izw that "0 11111 the wheel : whei
unt.l the laftday.f drawing.
II thfeufinefs of a Broker duly at
tended tain all « branches at the above office f V
may 24 w&stf falla,
"■ the 1
TO IE RENTED, "die
- ' f And immjiate pojpjjion given,) 3 r 'f
A LARGE thee story BRICK HOUSE.
situate in V\lnut-ftreet—The rooms are I °. w
_ | commodious, airy nd private—from which,and £ a ' n
e its central pofitior it is thought to be an*eligi- whic
a ble situation f«r a ftblic Office. For term<, en- of f*
, quire of BEN J. IV. MORKIS. drov
| dlfii A cammoiious War* Honle, in Tay- hnild
( lor s Alley. "
OiJlober 29. 3UW2W
weve
; TC BE LET,- ■ ral ai
And immedicte possession given ; l»app
A Large con venint, wcU finilhed lioufe, Ne fhoul
2«5 High-ftrei, lately occupied by Doc- The
tor Wiftar, with Cuch koufc and otables— dent
Enquire of VILLI AM SHE4FF, „ r r ■
1 . , Ith Bigh-Jirett.
I jU.y jI. j d atcU
p: oof, From one of the late London Papers.
ani a
EXTRACT
s, &c. p rnm a Ltttff lately pull'ijhed by /Vs.vnr J
Foals, Esq. commonly called Redhead, j
adurtjfed to the Reformers in this country. ,
8,20, _
:ts 48 IT mud be in the reeolle&ion of most of
53 to oIH . readers, that the author of this pamph- !
let was sentenced to a long imprisonment,
in consequence of a conviftion for seditiouS
praiftices. This, therefore, may be con 11- ;
dered as an important publication, finee it
exhibits a full, honourable, and masly re- !
, cantation of thofc principles, of the malig- j
nant and mifchievoas tendency of which i ,
Mr. Yorke declares himfelf now fatisfied, ,
from the molt femperatc and sober examin- ]
ation. A candid proselyte, in such times, ]
is a rare phcenomenon.
The traft commences, with proving, by .
KM clear reasoning, that the continuance of the c
war is imputable to the French, and not to r
(lant us; that they are slaves themselves, and ! e
lerly fighting to etiablifh similar slavery among ! t
irec-' ? thcr3 ' T . he f " llowl ' n g passages charafter- t
libe- lze the ambition and perfidy of the French. c
re . " The ambition of one man, L: wis XIV.
, th« has been transplanted ists the bosom of £
:ntly every Frenchman, and is attain revived as a k
the national ciiaradteriib'c. Thus they affeft to
son _ hften with pleasure, to propositions of peace, f,
lans, becalife they gratify vanity, while they in
lies, spire their hopes and feed their ambition f c
Tife ln thC ° ffCrS ° f P faCf ' t,lesr lma g' ne 'hey a
{ ; o l } behold the debility of their enemies. Ii el
de | the denial of them, they fancy they display ; n
>rm their power. Their real objid is obviously o,
pri- to subjugate their enemies <n succession, and t h
j to plunder them when fubjugatcd. w
•om *' If any l proofs be nectffary in support
of tilts afTerttcn, I will refer you to their t 0
ai(h solemn dsclarations, their constitutional hi
codes, their m2nifeftoes, on the one fide ; w i
le- and to their repeated perjuries, violent deci- ; 3
ro- fi°»s. and un«xarnpl«(l Cruelties on the other. ; t1
ok- For instance, they protelled* in the presence aa
ley of God and the world, that they renounced tin
ge all that their only ttiumphs (hould tic
Tf! f)e philof®p(ry ; that, in/lead of the s al
luxury of courts, tlvey would ellablilh liberty f] c
:x . and eqoality; in the place of a perfecutin>r v,;
fuperftitioD, universal tolerance ; of indivi. co
dual will, genera! law ; of literary fervjlity, a ,|
lt unqualified liberty of opinion ; u f feudal op .; 0
f e preffions, the removal of many phyiical evils; aB:
:y, of ignorance, the iaftitutioh of a na'ional -d
la- education, which fhculd redeem the huma'
« race from error, and advance the i.-pprove- co ,
rnent of their intelleftual powers and mural j e £
les f" e ntimenlß. All this they folemuly pro
rs. mifed, -but have fu'filled in no one inllance. a
»u You, however gai-e redit to the be'i*.al-„t or
dehgo, btcaufe h was plnnGble, and lo did wr;
- I. now they have performed their j s ,
promises. I .llead of re'juicing all con- j c
quests, they have n®t only subjugated, but the
they plundered S*voy, Italy, HoJland, the arrt
A uftnau Netherlands, and all the territory re ], :
1, situated between their ancient frontier ana ent
■ d the banks of the Rhine, which, with magni- pf /j
t . " cent they have appropriated as their to <
1- boundary, in defiance of reason, justice, and j elll
military experience. The triumphs of their f ro ,
pntlofophy consisted in the legalized murder ODt:
„ of every mas who was. distinguished for lite- e itb
e rary eminence, and who tosk no, part in ] v f
1- their fapguinary - f or ,
logue <»f whose names.are aj appalling to the 1 j,"
S philosopher. as they mud be difguftiug to cr , t<
v,n I'or jilicTty and equality, tfcev have T w
5 permitted the licentious freedom of'a few tem
hundred tyrants, who are the offals of hu- ; nte
man nature ; and such as the lowed of the i b(te ,
people brought into play acco.ding to the j and
r downward piogrefiion of civil commotion, j ar ;f,
s For iimverfal tolerance, they have martyred, on r
- imprifohed, or baitilhed moll excellent eha- 'j n c
rafters hecaufc they gave testimony ®f that 1 j t m
- "faith which is tn them ; fa that an Algcrine I d fra
- pirate, or an Atheist, is certain of tol-ra- 0 f j
> tion and countenance there, when a Chris- f or j
tian finds none. For general law, they f ate<
. " ave eilabliflied the discipline of the bay- f ca (f
s onet, and the sanguinary codes of general
proscription. For unqualified liberty of e fFed
opinion, they imprison or baaifh every man j anc ]
( wfo dares tofpeak against the government;
and they have appointed a licenser to the
public papers, the only vehicles of public 7 1
opinion and intelligence. For the lem oval ar e t
of many phyffcal evils, they have entailed Cnv«
poverty, the greatest of evils, on their pas- w ;]] )
live slaves ; and for national education, and g a ; n '(
the improvement of the human ir telled, our c
they have discountenanced all religion, pro- p r
scribed its teachers, driven men of trueknow- t j, at
ledge either into banishment or silence j and, si nce
with a mockery of all sense, have instituted 200 ;
Pagan ceremonies, wherein the moll bom
baltic rant and fuftian aredeLvered'fron. their bai kc
chief magistrates, and the people embruted, po , te
arc taught to be fatisfied, lik- the fertile jsjapp
Romans, with pa:,cm and circenfet, bread fj'
and puppet Ihew.s." Dub]
On the conduft to the French, as it con- R e d
jcernsthe interells of religion, the author der f d
thus expr fffs himfelf.
• trers r
" I always considered it as a wife measure c a
to abllain from any pruftfiiwns in a execu
where religion reare<J her sacred front in the ftort
palace, and in the hairlet. But when infi j,
delity avowedly (talks abroad, when every DUt .a
fallacy is mardialled in systematic order, for the at
the base purpose of invalidating or rendering r /
ridiculous the great t.-uths of religion, it ,1 - Bt i C '
s right that every roan should boldly and
fearleffly avow fin faith- 'ltis a duty which ,v r
I owe my countrymen, to cautiot* thi m a- •
gainst that cold and flippant scepticism,
which damp, onr hopes, remove the fanftions
of morality, chflls domestic happiness, de- ,"i,u
droys the obligations of fecial order, and r
builds up the philosophy of vanity, on the
fubvedion of the altars of God. This, ho
wever is not the place to discuss the mo- „fX
ral .nd political effeA. of religion on tbt iZh
happ.Hef, of nations. 1 he example of Franc,
should serve as an awful warning to Eurone 11 •
Ihe church was no sooner declared indeptn- cv V" B
dent of the state, under the pretext of uni- i j f
versa tolerance, than a flood of rice inun- who r
d ated the land. The tribunals of juajce re- CO , lCt ,
\x
. a Hiocftjln of evcrv >-;i r
I and all conventions amone tr
, were weakened or rendered nugatory. T}">
| the French ftio.ald turn afi<Je from the fn
'"'l j ft "»°™°ftb<i cI »"-ch °f Rome, is a natural"
ead, | conclusion, ur an age remarkable for the ce.
rtry. j lieral domination of knowledge. Bnr
i of ' [ " l . J suddenly renounce the ac,
tof , knowledgment of revealed truths from the
ent ' i ' • • VC them, is.aridi.
ous C i! trait t r e ' r condu(a ' as " denotes
t ! ,e 'mpotence of their underftandingg. The
e £ : V '«\ a,,dffra u d! of the profeflbrs ofchriaia.
re! !r'
lijr. I , W ™ hit 1114 w c mult look to
ich i K -a-- y P T- per P ace > the f cr ' P ttires. she
ed ! c hrift.an religion is peculiar to itfelf .; th "
If: common with other systems ofre .
e" i g T W /"r Ch r eX '' fted in the world. It
' £ a * God for lts and reason for if.
bv i IS ' i" ever y where "I'form, confident
by and complete. Considered as a body of
ethics, it has never been equalled, and as a
t revealed law. it is supported by that lucid
" | evidence which must be fatisfadtory to an
g ; unbiased judgment. Itspn.mifes are all fa.
, telle f , ual ( a remarkable instance of it fimpli.
• city) as objeft ,s unambitious and its moral
precepts corredl even to mathematical pre
ia f Th , e of «a,urew as hut darkly
to ITr K: thc most enlightened of ancient
philosophers; a revelation of it was there-
; e > fore mdifpr:fab'y necessary.
r C j T j t an " y fu PP lled this defea. It de
- fcended %pou thc earth a, a proper place and
y a proper time, after human phil .sophy had
„ f mpt '5 d its fubtletie ,in she most
y inquilitive and enlightened natij 0 f ™
d T y \ Itha r eX J ,,edf o r^teence I,t 1 ,t, 1 r
>d throughout which w e can trace irs'progrefs
without once lofmg fight of it ; and if will
*'J' \ 0n S « chanty an d virtue continue '
a '° be eH ' n vated by nun. What can the
"I h f m^n L Mrah( » fubftitut'e in its place, or
. what hopes will he give u« when chri'ftianity
" is gone ? It lias been well entered-,n on d.
• ity without motives, laws without
c and government without principle Vir
tue and vice would become mere corircn.
tional founds, determined aecordinj to thc
e falliio.i of countries, a d a mad might travel
y tiom one reg.on to another; to commit vice
f. with impunity. _ Thus, incest he would re.
concile to confeience, by the law of Persia
> adultery by that of Sparta, and the expofi
. "r':" the codes of Lycurgus
• and China. The experiment has been tri
*d in I'ranee, and it has failed."
The author's sentiments on the Britifo
- con ft, tut,on are such as become a good fub
jed. rhe pamphlet concludes thus :
"I have s.ovv done. By thus openly de
• clar.ng my fentunents, I may ineVr blame
or exci e malevolence ; but my motive fa
1 j writing this letter is fufficiently maniftft. It
r is my wifii to fee the religion, laws and con
fticution r. my country preferred entire from
i he ~iry ot a perfidous enemy, or the rash
■ arm o fanatical innovation. Mv principles,
religious and political, are certainly .iiffer
cnt_from what they were when I entered the
; pnfoii. lam prepared, if it be necessary
to explain the cauf.s of that change. I so!
lemnly declare that I have nothing to hope
from either ynrry ; from rammers or from
opposition I am totally unconneaed with
eitben Although I have deeply and ftverc
ly fuffered from long imprisonment, both in
fortuns and dotneflic happitufs.and although
I have been invited to repair the mifchieft br
entering again on political engagements, yet
I wn| not lacnhce my f utUle tranquility to
! temporary ad van • ages, „ or mr opm!o J t£>
interefl. If, through me, the country 1 hath
! bten wounded, I implore its forgivenefs,
| and fincei ely pray that the evils which may
| anfe from any mifconduit of mine may light
j on my head, net o» Great-Britain. and that
; m char-ty to the failings of human nature
j it may be afcr.bed to the levity and inconfi
■ deratenefs of jouth not to any difhonefly
or intention, nor defea of principle. If,
for such opinions, lam def!i a «J, in an ili
ai OU { 1? p c ° ant <Y> to be led to the
fcaffoid, I (hall w.llmgly refigu my life', fa
tefhft ny of a c mltitution, the beneficent
Lttt Z! , r aVC fdC ' evcn me. '
lancholy fohtude of a prison.
T si- C ? RK ' Sept ' 22 '
Two/hips of the line, and four fnVate*
Cnv,° h K !C , OUr naval at
Cov e> whlch Wlth the force alrfa «
w.|l, we trust prove a f u fß c ; eut dcf , nce ,
oTccaT 3 " be -
IC L tC /® 3re town which state
that a French frigate appeared a f ew dav ,
since in Kilhbegs bay, a „ d landed about
200 Frenchmen, who when they wtie
or r.id of the fate of their countrymen, en
barked, and left the coast It has been re^
poited, we know not with what truth< that
Napper 1 andv accompanied them,
Ihe Mail Coach which left this city f or
Dubfa, on Tuesday last, was flopped at
fer Ah " ear T ™ olt >'' " was plun
dered by a party of R tbe , 8> a , ld th P
gers made pnfoners. v
Cafey, tlie Baker, who was to have been
Ithas been renv.rked, that all i m .
puted fervihty u s courtier* falls very (hort o r
the a bjettbafcnefs( fthj Hbonof
of democracy. The mod despotic monarch,
indeed, never recemd such ® - • '
tion from his dependents as were lavished fa
the f-.nguinary tyrant, Robefperre, bv the
reg,c,d« and republicans, the leveller- and
citizens of France. One inflanrp
truth o* this alTertion. When Robespierre
some time after the abolition cf all forms as
worfh,p, found it dangers us any longer to
persist , n thwarting ,he religious prejudices
ofthenafon, he caused the convention to
pnoclaim by a decree, their f o rm a t
"ho fcemed to regard ItTtS
cconcrfFan, demanded the war Sa-knowledgeftenU, and ca'led for tlw oi
gratitude on th*irp a t David, the paint P !
ter, who lias rtn : der*d hirnfelf particularly w
C€mfpicii"'"S during the whole progress of gi
tfct revolution; and wltoTe talents have bten ft
to record its mull sanguinary at
chicvements, as the triumph of republican
virtue, determined not to <iifplay less zeal
thaii hie fellow citizens on this interesting q
occafiuii. He accordingly painted a pifturt,
in commemoration of the event, in which
he .-.finally ?*ve to the deity the veryccou- t ,
tenauce or Robefpii'tVe ! ! ! (j,
tins i@aih I
NEW-YORK, November I. "
Frtma Correspondent. ,l;
Wx notice with pleasure the refp?<ftful c<
attention, to the anniversary of the birth of
our illustrious President, whi.-h, at fort Jay, n;
was honored by a federal faiute. ■
Every true American will feel happy, at
celebrating the birth day of a President, u- t!
riting in his chara&er the enlightened states- c<
man, (iiiti patriot and christian philosopher. w
__ «5
The cx'racls of a letter to the refarmers
in England, in this day's paper, we recom- «
mend to the serious per.ifal of eveiy one who H<
is an sdmirer of French pricipLs, cr defi
ron? of any change in our e\celleM admi- o
iiiftration anu conftitu.tion. 11
. Seven! of riie departments of Trance, p
fr m the want of a good fyllem of polics, are
infefted with robbers, who commit great cru- C
elties. The Directory have invited the d
councils to make the communes responsible u
far the crimes which they fuffcr to be ier
petrated within the dillri&a, and they Hate, t
in their mefiage, that one caufeof the fre- i
ent robberies is, that punishment does net
follow convi£lioa fufificientjy quick. t
The councils have fetrled the expences of o
the army and jlivy of Fiance for the next
vcar, at 262 millions for the army, and
millions for th>- navy, <
The most celebrated fttatues of the Mn- ' ]
feum at Rome ave ordered to be font to Pa
ris—the independence of the Roman repub- <
lie! The colcfl". 1 figure, reprefentinjj the
Nile, is among the number. Forty oxen
are to draw them to Rips Granda, where
they arc to be embarked for France.
While we do homage to that guardian of
American freedom, toe liberty of the press.
(fays the Windsor (Vermont) paper, in
fpearirg of the convidlion of M. Lyon)
we rejoice in every moafure which has ten
dency to reft; ain its licentiousness; con
vinced that if the people of America fh ;u!d
be deprived of this invaluable birth right, it
would be by those who abuse th sacred pri
vilege of free discussion. The conviftion &f
Mr, Lyon wc hope, may prove i:i the end
a noble triumph ,of liber y, and our equal
laws over that nob idled spirit of oppoluion
to government, which is at the present mo
ment,! the heavielt curse of America.
U.> OA. »o.
Celebration of
The President's Birth Day.
The Citizens of Portsmouth, paid a most
honorable teftimqny of refpedl to the Birth
day of the President of the United States,
in the following verV}judicious manner : fit
fun rife a federal faiute was fired from the
Revenue Cutter, commanded by John \-
darns, Esq. which faiute wis returned by
a jovful ptal from all the bells ; by Major
Boyd's private armed ship, and from two
brass field pieces centrally disposed in Cant.
Whidden's garden. At to a. m. the 'right
Infantry, under the orders of Thomas Spar
hawk, Efq paraded at the State-Houfe v
and after peiformi'-g a variety of military
evolutions in a very fiiperior llyle, marched
out of town, to escort his Excellency Gov
GILMAN in, wo had previoufiy been
invited to honor an elegant entertainment
with hs pretence, which had been provided
by his fellow citizefis at the aflembly room.
The military escort and his excellency met
at the confines of the town, when, with
that diftingui/hyl politenef; which marks the
charafter of the fuiifhed gentleman, he in
stantly dismounted, and placed himfelf with
the line of Infantry, and in thii manner was
condu&ed to his lodgings at Col. Brewfter's;
his arrival being announced by 16 rounds of
artillery At 3, /. m. the military resum
ed the line of march, and waited on his Ex
cellency to the place .of entertainment,
where they displayed files, saluted, fired a
ftu de jdye and w«re difmifled. A few mi
nutes pall 3, his Excellency entered the
room, £Thomas Martin, Esq. afiin,r as
President, and Col. James Sbeafe as Vice-
Prelident,] and participated oF a dinner
which did honrror to the ftewardsa id reflec
ted equal credit on Mrs. Whidden, whose .
abilities were never displayed to more advan
tage. His Excellency was attended by his
fuitc and followed -by the Re*. Clergy.
Among whom we noticed Dr. Tappan, the
Hollifian profefTur of D vinity at Cambridge
and many other diftinguilhcd characters
A great number of the militia officers, join
ed the escort ii complete uniform. What
rendered the prefruce of his Excellency pe
culiarly grateful to his fellow citizens at this
moment, was. that he had jull completed
bis personal review of the militia through
out the slate, and returned in perfect health
to the affections of a people, who appreci
ate his talents, and revere his virtues.
After dinner a number of federal and pa
triotic loalls were given out, and the follow
ing original and moll excellent songs sung
with liiyh approbation. The company a
mountir.g to nearly fro, broke up at an ear
ly hour, and retired with that dt-conim,
which so well become* men who acknow
ledge thcnifelves the citizens of a federal re
public, which gave birth to the illustrious
Johm Adams, no less dignified by his pri
vate, than immortalized by his public vir
tues,, and natives of a Hate or fttbjceii there-
of in. which tlie truly eSceHertt and really to
patriotic John Taylor. Gilman presides hin
with peculiar honour to hrmfe-, and diftio- abl
guifiied felicities to the Hate of New-Hatnp- , ed
ftire. J nf '
So long ADAMS the Federtl Car, | ted
So lon« may GH.M AN ft'ne the brighieft Sl.r, j
•Mid the biightG»h*v tht! Jigh : « Cotuaibia J way, ;
Still (hining brighter in the prifeft d«y. |
The following were among the mojl celebrated •
T ™P- . . ant
ill. The day we celebrate—may the vir-
tues of our illustrious President yobn Idams,
be ever held in grateful remembrance by his
country
2i. The United States of America—n,ay (
their union and independence be commcnfu
rate with time. n, . . ] ai ,
3d The State of New-Hampfliiri—may
it continue a lun.inous star in the American
| constellation. jj,
f 4th. The virtuous majorities in the Se- 1
nate and House of Representatives of.the
United States
1 51b George Washington Commander of
the armies of the United States—may ®ur
country never forget to honour the man
who facrifices his own happiness to her fafe
'y
; 6th. The armies of the United States—
. nsay our enemies know their virtues and fear
> Ho provoke their exertions.
7th. Our riling navy—may (he prateft
. our infultcd commerce and thunder deftrue- re
tion 011 our enemirs. cil
Bth. The Heads of the four great De
, partments of f>tate.
e 9th. M'.fTrs. Pinckney, Marshall and ev
- Gerry—may filch integrity, firmnefs and
e decision as they have displayed, ever tri
e u.rph over artifices dTgracefu! to a nation. f o i
. j 10. American volunteers —an antidote
,| to the dirlomatic of Talleyrai.d and his
- American assistants. f°
c 11. Firmr.efs to the friends.reformation to ju
the oppofers, and confafion »o t::e enemies
f of our government. Wl
t 12. United Cuunclls & vigorousimafures
5 13. May learn wisdOm fiom the j
example of so many reDublican catastrophes t er
1. ■ paffisg in review before her eyes. ! th
1 14. May the ardour of passion in any j
j. 'cause never lead m to forget charity, huaia
ie uity and benevolence. !
a 15. May fraud and force in no nation be
re allowed tobe the meaftire of right and wrcng fi<
16 The fair daughters of Am.rica— tv
May their smiles and favor always reward,
if their own and their coui.trv's pr< te£lurs. j
i. VOLUNTEERS _ : d<
in (After the Governor retired.) p
1) I. The Governor of tjie Stats o! Hamp- ej
n (hire, John Taylbr Gilman. CJ
1- 2. The President of the Day, Thomas c }
!d Martin, Esq.
it 3. The Vice-Prefiicnt, James Sheafe Esq.
i- 4. May the genius of Fedeialifra exUr
e,f minate from our coustry the demon ot jaco-
id binifm and fa&ion.
al 5., May the American army be on all oc
>n cafioj as fuccefsful, as it was on the 19th »
o- Oft. 1781.
djf Songs, fang on the above ociafion, will c
appear in to-morrow's Gazette- ~ ai
b
BOSTON, oSober 26. ft
I
. From France. a
] The Little Cherub arrived at Duxbury, ti
on Monday last 38 days from Nantz. No- si
" ' thing certain was of Ruona- h
parte. The French government, from some c
cause. evince a strong desire to cotnpromife v
, with the United States. The brig Cyrus, c
' Captain Tv'er, for thin port, failed in com
pany, on board of which, Jofep'n Wood f
,v 0 ward, Esq. of Tewkfbiiry, near Boftoa, was
a passenger, and entrufled with Dispatches l
addressed rcf our Government. | 1:
j. ' YeHerday Captains Blake and Crymby, : >
v of the unfortunate Americans who returned r
to their country from France, in the Ben- i
' jamtn Franklin, arrived at Philadelphia, j t
)v reached this town. Captain Qm'mby has i t
Cn given to us for publication, the following j 1
j memorial, (which, will of itfelf explain the 1
cause which produced it) together with a
letter on the fubjetl from the American
'f. 1 Consul General at Paris, to wh?p the me
, 1 morial had-been entrufl'd. Befit e the re- I
ceipt of this letter, the memorialills had ; 1
1 ' been allowed to take paiTage in the cartel. 1
, aV COPY of a MEMORIAL !
s . To the Minuter of Marine, &c.
of The Memorial of the American Captains
m- have had their vefiels captured and
x- condemned, refpeflfullv reprel *. :s :
it, That the undersigned, having been re- j
a fufed permission to embark in the carttl-fliip, ]
ii- commanded by Captain Lloyd Jones, by th- (
he Commissary of Marine, who fays, thar jom ,
as would be permitted to embark, either i : the
:e- said cartel (hip, or in any of the ntitt'-a'
ler vefiels bound to the United States. fttnL S 1
:c- they fhou d have paflpbrts ligned by the
)fe , Minister for that purpose. '
in- Thus circumstanced. tbey finSthemfe'"e«
lis impelled to resort to the Citizen Miaifie
;y. for that indulgence ; net doubting, lv.:t >.
he by the magnanimey and liu.nanrtv, 1 ;
ge for which, the French natina .s fojpH'r . j
rs r.ownded, he will give those orders, < htlaHy J
in- prompt and efficient, which their ui.pl
tat and truly distressed fituatiun, an
>e- of their crews, so loudly claims 7 tit iwr -o j
lis embark in Captain Jones's cartel, or-in any 1
ed other neutral vtffel bound tp the U: rati ,
;h- States.
th Mark Fernald, John Crumby, Stthi: 1 ,
ci- Hanqock, Alexander Chiftiolm, <Da»id |
Ewen,. Joseph Brown, Enoch Randtli,
)a- Appleton Wardon, Increase Blake, Joseph
w- Smith, George Hall,
ng Blurdeaux, /lug. 14,
Paris, A tig. 22.
Jr " Captain John Crurahy.
m ' Sir,
I duly received a letter signed by you and
rc " several bthers of my• Countrymen, with a
' u .° petition to. tbe Miuifter of Marire for per
iri " mission for you and hem to embark on boar''
" r " the ship commanded by Capt. J«nes. —This
re " petition I fhsuld immediately have presented
V
4
to the Mini l?r with an ea.r.eft revert to
5 him :o comply with its dcfire, bat the tigrce
• able event which has beeojuft communieat
- ' ed to me, of that Minister having given ge
• neral and special inftnifti'ins to aid and pro
| te<ft all Americans at the different port*, Sh
i leaves mc no room to doubt of your and my
' J other countrymen's difficulties at Bourdeaux sol
! i being by thij time removed ; I liave, there
fore, kept the petuion, and begging yvia
and them to accept assurances of my good hp
vviflies, I am refpettfully, wa
Your mo(t Humble Servai® tut
FULW i R SKIPWITH. the
J of
' Couzard, in the French Council of joo, vai
Aug. i, moved, for the modification o( the Ca
law, which, esaits that the neutrality of rt Ah
' velTel (hall be decided by her cargo—or that Tt
1 English goodj or produce (hould imply En- W1
glifh property. His speech was ordered to CI
be printed. " u
f da
J C!)e ©a?ettc.
PHILADELPHIA, Br
Sc
FRIDAY EVRNING/JVOr-BMS-Ei? 2. gli
1; Mr. Richardet being about to
- return to the city, the papers for W{
citizens, resident in Germantown,
will be discontinued after this E:
d evening.
i- It is with infinite fatisfa&ion we in-
form our Readers, that yesterday the Fe- ev
, e deral Intereit of New-Jersey obtained a w<
' S complete triumph over the anti-federal fe:
on
0 junto. he
:s Notwithfunding the attempts which av
were made by die latter to otift Gov- v*i
ernor Howell, he was re-eledted Gov- w:
: ernor by an almost unanimoui vote—
I there being only one in the opposition. pV
y j Jonathan Dayton was elefk-dSena
a" j tor of the United States in the place of j r
je Mr. Stockton, who declined being cory
ig 1 lidered a Candidate. His epponeut
- was Dr. Elmer, a Federalrft alfc. '
rd .
! The French Government has revived the .
detestable laws refpefting Gunring and
Filhing—which were the raoft hortid which
P" existed with the King No Citi'.en now
can kill a bird or catch a fifli without pur
aß chafing a special licence 1 ! D
The poor Swi/s ! !
A letter from Zurich, in Switzerland,
°" dated June io, givei the foll®wingciri.um-
ftantial account of the carrying aw;y of the
"j treasure of that town—" On tht sth of
Juns. the French war cotnmiffary. Pommi
er. gave notice that Citizen Ripinjt would
M come in the evening to irfpeft the :reafure,
and that therefore the deputies of the eht tu
ber of adminift ation*might hold tlernfelves
in rtadinefs. About fix o'clock, R.apinat,
Rochiere. jarwl Pommier made tber appear
ance with foldws, aud required th; keys of
•y, the treasury. Thele were refuftd lim, and
so- secretary ?<letz to fetch tie ftadt
ia- halter Pfenniger, and the prefideit of tha
me chamber of admini!lration, Wyfs ; both of
life whom came and protested against firh a pro
us, ceediiig.
m- " Rapinat then demanded the keys,
id ' fayi«g menacingly. " Voila les baymnettes.
ras You fee the bayonets;" to which tie iladt
iies halter Pfennigs, replied, " Had weas many
j bayonets as you, we wonl! dispute it with" "
jy, : you. I shall immediately fend an account
led of this proceeding to Arau." " Ycu will?" ~
en- said Rapinat," then do not forget to add.
lia, : that we (hall carry it away in four days
has i time." He then broke off the ftal and ran-. P
ing j sacked the treasury, which was 'jrefteriS y ,
the carried away in waggons by the F^uch."
1 a
:an From the New Tork.Daily Gazette.
ne- By capt. O'Brian we are infornrd, that
're- the Frev.ch had made another atttnpl to in 1
lad | tWe Ireland, and had landed a nimber of
!. men in ihe North ; but tltaring tie fate of
their countrymen, re embarked.
Their number was fuppofsd to luvc been
between 1000 and ifoo.
uns _
Frankfort (Ken ) 93. 2.
Weiwderftand that ,several thoifand en- 1
re ~ piea of the Difpatcbts from the American
"P> E voysare fen* to this state by th< General '
,r G' versment, to be distributed airing the
'r,ple. ,
the |
; ! A - gentleman of this town jult arrived
' - ; '"1 1 :C, f :« z informs, that when he left
t: '" h.- Zac .ariah C.ax wa« in close con
• . H his m ,ft intimate friends not
; e ' , ; ft > speak with him. Slid to b«
" -o'.iVqueiice of an order from the
•j■ ve ■ Government. Governor Sargeaut
" • ' .. tting ,if some of the inhabitants of •
■ , ' and i formed them that the govern- :
•' v • '.r I'uuid f<>on be organrfe'f, and ftriflly
'■ , 1 fie organ'fation of tie naiiitia
' ; "hit thecrirps werepat'tiai—herods through
" ! 1 Cort'on field of fifty acres, ana saw it in
r 'V ! inilatice* nine feet high. When he
' p.fifed through the Chickafaw ration, the
InJians werr <ll gone tt the Bluffs, 10 receive
• J *rjm General Wfliftiifon the prcfents sent
• by the General Government.
.V.t,
L V h TEN DOLLARS REWARD.
Dt-StRTED lad night, a second .irae. from S .
the MdiiDc Camp, David Lupor a fife-.
Hfc' had when he wnt avray, a plain fjuc jacket wtd
V3sU,iigh| blucoveralls, a rouKd h'at,whi<h had been
uouiid with yellow, anJ w.hich he had ripped off
in his fit ft dtfirdon, and a pair of new £iqgk he is
arid by tra-'.e, has grey eyts.fandj - h.iir
h a fallow cdmpUxion and a nitch ip his upper lip.
Der back is ft]lf fore from flogging hf got a few
, iays ago He may bo difcovtred By h, O fifeing,
\] r . is he ertremely
[ W. W. BURROWS Major Com. of the
Ued October 17. Marine Corps.
« * f ' • ' k '
v '. *: + r '• * ' » r *h '!* ; •
(Sajctte %i&.
Port of Philadelphia.
ARr.irrD. e '
Ship Smith Carolina, Garmart, Cliarlefton
C ipt. Garman has favored us with the N
following :
Left at CharleJloß, ,
The Baltimore, fioop of war, Capt. Phil
lips, and the Virginia Cutter, Capt. Bright,
watering off the Bar at anchor, the Condi
tution, frigate Capt. Nkholfon, waiting for
the (loop of war and cirter, with a convoy
of about 20 merchant vtfftls, for the Ha
vann i, to fail tlie day after Capt. Garman.
Capt. Nichoifon undetermiaej whether he
(hould j~>in the convoy, or return on t^ecoaft.
The day before Capt. G. tr
win, in the Experiment, of Philatfelp'iia. left
Charleston for Amboy, Capt. Trwifl had put jt
into Charleston in distress, for water, 37
day 3 from Jamaica. Sailed from Charleston
22d Odober. 0
be
Neiv-Torl, November I. L ' a
ARRIVED. Days.
Brig Easle, Weeks, Philadelphia. 21
Schr. Minerva. Leader, Havannah 31 /
Sloop Harry, Johntop,N. Providence. 20 °
Capfain O'BriVn, of the brig Nancy, f r
speke in lat. 30, long. 45, the (hip Lydia ?
fram this port, bound to Liverpool, out 3
weeks, all well. I
Arrived here under jury malls the brig l ! !
Eagle, Capt. Weeksj (he left Philadelphia
Oa. 7 —on the 18th. scudding before the
wind, hove down on hef btam ends, so that ve
the ' opfa,il yards touched the water, 1 he" 1 *'!
water coming into the main hatchways; lolt
everything 01T the deck; obliged to cut a
way our mainmalt by the board; (hip'd a
sea which carried away one of the pumps;
on the 2 1 It. at 5 A. M. ship laying too, a
heavy sea struck the bowsprit and carried it
away close by the stem, at the fame time
rtafh'd away the long loft all our j t
■ water, at 9A.M. ft ruck the waist on' the
Urboard fide and ftar;ed the plauki'; on the
26111 finding we could not teaCh PTiiladel- ]n
phia, bore away for New-Yuik. i 0 [
Interments from City Hospital 3 ca
City and Suburbs 6| s
ni
• _ 9
| List of all the Burials in the feversl Grave
Yards of the"City and Liberties of Phila
r delphia, as taken from the looks kept by J
Clergymen, Sextons, &c.
for the Gazette of the United'" t
States, by ROBERT PAXTON."]
——
Names of the Burial Grounds.
; Rh It
. Christ Chursh - - - - H® £
c St. Peter's - ... . o|o/
St. Pauls - - . . . o' o "
j First Pi efbyterian - - oo I
Second Pre(byterian - - - o o
i Third Frefbyterian ... o o
Scots Prefljyterian - o 0
s Aflociate Church - - o o
j St. Wary's Church - -N" l o
Trinity Church ... o o
- Friends' - - - . . oo '
Frae Quakers' - - - , o o
•1 Swedes ..... o o
Germail Lutheran - - - o o !
a German Reformed Prclbyterian o '
,f Moravians' } - - - . -c ® '
Baptifls' ... . i o .
Methoiiifts' . - - . - o o 1
Univeifaiifts' - - . - o o '
> Jews' - - - . jo o 1
»• City Hofpilal - - . . .j 9 o
:- Ker.fington ... . 10'
y Coates 9-,- - - - ©o
h '—7' 1 : —;
j. J for tlx last 24, hours 131 1
') -~ r - ~ ■■ ■ ' -
I DIED.] —on the ißtnult. at Frank" \
ford, after a long illacfs, Mr. George Hum* <
plireys, merchant of this city.
——, in this c ty, a few days lince, Mrs. '
' Ridgway,an old and much rel'peded intia
bitant.
lt BURIALS
j In the pßiSriDi' Grave TarJ in the 10th
>f month, 1 798 —-.vi%.
j£ ift- Margaret, wte of Geo K r.tkW, aged
_ Mjrgaret, daughter of George Brannon 17'
4. Mary, dauphter of Chariei Cary • 19
n 4. Jiii'eph Chatham, Chair maker 86
s'. Jonathan Lewis, rfirn-key of the piifon
5. Mary Edwards 45
6. John Hickman, plaiQerer •*" 18
). 13. Lucy, the widow of—-Rickets, Cr*2!er 53
in Ilaic Knight, iime feller 48
14. Rachael JuJUce 29
Samuel Wallace, of Northumberland 58
lc Mary Dobbins (widow) 55
16. Caleb Bickham, Mackfrnitla 65
17. John, foil of Thomas Martin, milk man u
:d 18. Phoebe, daughter of Caleb Kimber de
ft ceased II
n . 19. Murdecai Ackly 31
3t »o. Ann, wife of Adam Mendenhall 26
16. John Warner, whale-bone-cutter 63
J ® 27. Elizabeth, daughter of Gcorfe Brannon 13
Ann, daughter of iteiijamin Hirkman 22
ut 28 Rachaal, Wife of John Jamei, merchant 36
as 19. John Gilbert, maker 21
n- 30. Sarah, eldest daughter of Benjamin
Hickman 30
• 3t. Phoebe, wife of Allen Ridgeway
,'h . In ill 24
> - Total ia the Bih and 9th month were 111
in
« 135
he C.
II ~~~ samukl P.arker,
. BRASS and BELL FOUNDER.
No. i; 7, Mulberry firret,
CONTINUES io carry on the braf> fouudery
bufmefs as ufunl, where his former ciifto
,m j mers and th<- public m?'y hrfuppfted with cast.
~ ings- for machines to any pattern, lUtklrr braces,
bolti, &c fcr ihips.
of y Jt may Le proper tn add, that, as it has been
,j s reported he bufinefs, S. P. tikes
a i r ' this means of informing public that he fs
j n making a.rrangetßeuts to carry ii on still more
e\!enfively, hoping I hereby to comply prorr.pt
ir, t ly with fiich orders as he may have to execute
£s* Bells„at any size, cast for churches' and
the other inllitulions ; prirsttri rules, ic.
Oftober i 6 eo 31.
; | »- -s -•** ■ A
, POST OFFtf't,
Pl{n;it!r'tfJ/:a, 2 <)'. L OEober.i n",
LETTERS for the Britilh Pack- '
et (for Falmouth) will be received
i at this oltice until Tuesday the 6th
- November, at 6 o'clock, P. M.
■N. B.—The inland postage to
. Neiv-Tork must be paid at this office.
: O The Office of ihe Mayor of
' the City of Philadelphia, is held for the
prefuiit at the State House in the Court
room. oa. 18.
~
HEAL TH-OFFICE.
OisU>b#r 26.
_ Application having been made to th«
J Board of Ma.iagers of the Marine and City
, Hospitals, to dispense witb the quarantine
[ required by law, in the cafe of vefl'eii bound
tf> the port of Philadelphia, wh:ch may have
been within the Delaware more than tea
days, without performing the regular qu.tr
| antine at the place appointed : the Boar t
inform the matters and owners of fucli vef
iels, 1 hat every instance in which any per
( son h2j been landed on cither fide of the bay
| or river Delaware, previous to examination
J hy the resident physician at the Marine Hof
, pital, and certificate by him granted is a
' dire# violation of tfce health laws, and that
r the persons so tranfgrefiing, have rendered
| tlieinfclves liable to prof cution.
The board recommend to the mailers of
' t veflels, boaud to the port of Philadelphia,
s _| and liable to quarantine, to proceed iinme-
diately to their Itation off the Marine Hos
pital, for regular examination-
By order of the boar:! of Managers,
Wm. JOMES, ('resident,
• Attest, Timothy Paxson, Clerk.
j ISRAEL PLt: AS ANTS tj? Co.
Wo ?4» "• ■■ t . Set n4 :■ reef,
T Have returnedfrom the country ; and have faf
SA LE, as ujual, a large aJTjrtment of
DRY GOOD a,
Imported in the !at vefuls ItonEutoje, cor.fitting
of articles print pa ly fuiccd 10 ttie prefrm and ap
proaching season
They are determined to fell off very low for
cadi or fliort credit,
j Note. All ptriout indebted 'o tha late firm of
Samuel PlcjfanU Is' Sow, are defircd to make im
mediate payment to tha iubferi <rs.
Israel P leaf ants ts 3 Co.
- Nov - * _ d 4 w
FRUITS, WINES, "
•y MALAGA WINE, in butts
SHERRY ditto, in quarter calks
D BRANDY, in butts and pipes
- SUN-RAISINS, in kegs
§ | MUSCATEL do. in boxes
1 1 BLOOME do. in do.
® SOFT SHELLED ALMONDS in sacks
° , OLIVE OIL i» boxes of 12 bottles
O BITTER & JORDAN ALMONDS in
boxes, See.
FOR SALS BT
0 PETER KUHN,
o No. 178, North Market street.
o Not a d lot
0 DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA. TO WIT -.
q BE IT REMEMBERED,
or T IHAI on the twelfth dav
V )of August, in the twenty third year of
® the Independence of the United f tires of
o America, Benjamin Smith Barton,of the .'aid dif
o tri&, hath. dep< sited in this office the t.tle of a
0 book the right whereof he claims 49 author ia the
0 words following, t<i wit :
0 " New View* of the Origin of the Tribes and
0 " Nations of 1 merica—By Vahjamin Smith Bar
-0 '• ton, M. O.Corrnlpoiidcnt Member of tbe.Socie.
f " tile AmC .'tall Phi ofophical SoCie'y, Felij w G f
" the iean Academy of Arts and Sciences of
. " Boflon, Correlpondidg Member of the Maffa-
K " Hiltorical Society, and Profcffor of
W « Materia Medica*, Natuial Hiflory and Bo'nny
« in the University of Pcnafylvania, Hhiladeinh a
rs. " P" n trl for the Author, 'xyJohn Bioieo, i; 9 B.'
, a 1 ' conformity to the ait <.f the Ccwgref; of tiie
United States, iutitled " An ad lor the >e
m«nt of ie'riiing by lecuring ih- copies of mars,
charts,and 'ocfcs, to th; authors and proorietor,
of such copies during the t'ime.«tfcef»fci menti®n«d.'*
; SAMUEL, CALDWELU., C.erk, Difl. of Peon'
November 1, 1798.
S9. NOTIC E r
'7 T"HAT the fird Monday cf December next i*
10 L appointed for my he;riwg befor« a Cour; of
86 Common Pleas of Aliegh.fcy County, in the State
of Pennsylvania, 011 an application lor tue benefit
45 oi the ads of this Hate provi ling for the relief of t
a 8 infelvcHt debtors, having at September terra lift
53 prcf. ntcd n.y petition, with a fthedule annexed, of
4 g all my efta-c real, peifonal and mixt, rights and.
19 credits, to be aOigned for •h: use of my creditors.
58 ALEXANDER SUMRALL.
55 Wov - 1 1
' TO BE LET
11 And immediate pojfejjisn given,
II A LARGE convenient", fe»il fimihel honfe,
31 ' No. jl(, High street, lately occupied by
2 g DotSlor Wiliar, with coach house aod llables—.
(>i Enquire of WILLIAM SHEAFF.
j. No. 168, High Hreet.
21 N " v - 2 ' Htf
36 AN APPRENTICE '
TO THE PRINTING BUSINESS
3o Will be taken at this Office, iV
immediate application be made.
iV pv. 1. 6t
COLLECTOR'S OFFICE,
2. PlUl/ID'.Li'HIH, AUgul JO, 1798
- THF. bufinel'i of the Cuflom Hoof, will from
tnis tiay be trar.faded a- t:hd>er, (faring the con
tinuance of the fever Wui«h new prevails in this
city ; and in <;anfequ»nee'thereof, the m rchant.
are hereby notified, that payment Of all bonds for
'O' duties to the United StJtcs, payable at this office,
to- may be made eilher at the Cu.tom HouD in Chef
alt. ter, or at the Bank of the United State#.
:cs, Colleger's Office, )
PhUade'.phia, Aug. 30. J
een
Printing Work,
° re Of Every Kind,
EXECUTED AT THE SHORTEST
ml NOTICE,
At t')c Office of the Gazette of the
ITjiixf a States,
OS. 13.PROPOSALS,
BY THK
Insurance Company rfNtrtb America.
For Insurance againlt Fim, on Rwelling-
Houses, Ware-Houses, and other Buildings (and
on Good* contained in such Buildings) distant from
Philadelphia, in the United States.
I Common lufurancet, on hazards of the Srft
class, will be undertaken at a premium of ahout
hal! per cent, per annum. For extra hazardous
rifques a larger premium will be required, which
will vary according to circu*ftances, feidom ex
ceeding one per rent, pc- annum ; but in some in
stances, where the property insured is not only in
itfclf extra hazardous, but rendered il ill morefo
by the vicinity of extra hazardous buildings and
occupations, the premium demanded will be raised
according to eireumftances.
Houses and Ware-Houses, the walls and parti
tion? of whioh are wholly of (lore or brick, well
conftruCled, so as to b» guarded as well as may be
against fires from within, and tree from extra ha
zardous buildings and occeupatlons in their neigh
borhood, will be deemed hazardous of the firft
class, and may be insured ta theirfull value.
Also Goods and Merchandize, not ol *1 extra
hazardous kind, in casks, bales, or packages, de
pofired in ftich buildings, to an ameunt not ex
ceeding 4000 dollars ; but if more than this fnm
is required to be infuroi-l in one tenement, an addi
tio«al premium willbc required, in proportion to
circnmftances.
11. lnfurances will also be made on buildings and
goods i-'xtra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to tho risque. But it is not easy to arrangf these
uader particular heads or dalles, so as to dt feribe
eai.h v itb the necessary accuracy. Each caf must
therefore be decidedupon accordingto the circum-
Oaecesa'fnding it ; and these eireumftances wili,
in general, appear from the defcriptii.n accompa
nying t'-eapplication.
Buildings partly conftruCtrd of brick or flotie,
are preferable to those wholly wooden. And in
both cases, the stile of building, how they are oc
cupied, haw they are situated, the neighboring
buildings, and how ortupied, are considerations to
be taken into view. And with rcfpeS t® goods,
their tend«ncy, whether from their nature, or
from the manner in which they are exposed, ether
so commence or to increase an accidental fire, afld
their liability in such (late to receive damage by
wet, or by fuddenardhafly removal, or to lu: lio
len in time of cor.fuficn and hurry, are all cir
eumiUnCesor weight ; and the premiums must be
proportioned accordingly.
111. The following conditiont are to be uader
ftoodly the parties.
lie. The Insurance is net binding till the stipu
lated premium be paid ; but it (hall be deemed ef
fectual from the time of such payment and accep
tance thereof, whether the policy be immediately
signed or not.
2d. lnfurances may be renewed at the expira
tion of the term of the policy, without further ex
per.fe* than the payment of ths premium of the re
newed term, tho eireumftances continuing the fame
as they were underflood by the Insurers at the time
the former insurance was made ; but the payment
of the premium is essential t# such reirewal; and
if the party insured fuffers any time to elapse after
the expiration of the former insurance, before he
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
during such time ; nor can the ipfurance be renew
ed on the former policy but by competing the
commencement of the renewal frem the expiration
of the former insurance. The fubjeCl of insur
ance may nevertheless be open-to treaty for a new
insurance.
3d. If any other insurance be made on the fame
property ; it mull be made known at the time of
application, othdrwift the policy made on such ap
plication will be void.
4th .Goods h«ld in trull, or on consignment,
isay M insured as such in a separate policy ; but
tilt) tire not tube considered at insured ethervuife.
jth. This corop*tiy will not be liable or accoun
table for any loss or damage occasioned by any for
eign invasion, or by any military or ufu. ped force
or by PLvfon of any civil commotion ; or occasion, •
ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or other thing of th
like kind kept in the building, or amongst the pro
perty insured.
6th. Bilk of' Exchange, Bonds and other Secu
rities, Title Deeds, Money, Bank and other pro
miffary Notes, are not included in any infarln.ee;
nor are paintings, medals, jewels, gems, antique
•uriofitias, or mirrors exceeding the value of twen
ty rfive dollars each, to be considered as insured une
less particularly mentioned aud by special agree
ment.
7th. No ir.furanee will be made for a Siorter
term than one year, nor for a longer term than fe- •
veil years. Persons choosing to infuse for seven
y.ars (ball b eallowed one year's premium by Way
of difeount: One third of a yearsprenitom fball
be abated in like manner an insurance for
three years.
Bth. Losses sustained by (Ire property injured,
fliall be paid in thirty days after due proof and li
quidation thereof, without deduction.
A defciiption of the property to be infurod will
be expired with each application, to be made by
a mafi r carpenter and signed by him, as well as
iy tlvi owner of the building on applicant for in
a«rawc«, and attested before a Notary or principal
Magiilrate, who will ce«ify his knowledge of the
parties and their credibility.
With refpe t to Houses and other Buildings.
lit. The lite and pofirion ; describing the
Hreet or road dn or near which the building ,
lland-s; its contiguity td water, and other cir- j
eumltancesrelative to the extinguishment of fire
in cafe of accident; and particularly whether j
anyandwbat fire companies are established, and
engines provided, in the place or neighbourhood, j
•id. The materials of which it is buiit, whe
thel 'of brii-k, stone or wood,-and what part of ;
each, as well afc to the outside walls as inlide or
partition walls, and their refpedlive height and
thickne's; the flyle of the roof and of what
materials; laowfecured by battlements or par
ty walls ; what kind of accefe to the top of the
house and to the chimnfes-j whether any and
what eleitrU rods ; the number and kind of
fire places ; and the kind of deposit for a(hes.
3d. Ihe dimensions of the building and how j
divided, and the style in whicli it it finifhed so i
as to enable indifferent persons to judge in what
manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury ; the age and condition of the building,
and how occupied, whether merely as a dwel
ling house, or for any other, and for what par- ;
pose ; also an eftiinate of the value of the houle
or building independent of the ground.
4th. The situation withrefpe<n to other build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at least one hundred feet
each way: what kind of buildings are within
that diAancc, how built, of what materials,and
how occupied or improved, whether as dwel
lings for private families or otherwise : whe
ther any and what trade or manufaaory is car
ried o»,' and particularly whether ther-? beany
extrahazardous articles used, or usually depo
sited in the house, or within the distance afore
faitl,and of what kind
Refuelling goods in Houses, Warehouses, *c.
1. A peneial description of the building in ,
which tliey are kept will beexpe<2ed, Cmilar in
all refpetfs, as to the danger from fire, with that ;
required for Insurance on the buildings them
fclvcs< 1
"2. A description of the kinds and rature of I
|he goods, whether in calks or other packages, |
or opened; and whether displayed in whole
pieces or in th« usual form for retajling. And
1i 1 ' the goods vary materially in kipd, a gertr-if
e#imate nf the value of eacl; kind propol'ed to
l>e insured ; <>ut tn the lab particular minute
ness of description i« nit exp'vsled.
3. Articles of the following kinds are deem
ed extn hazardous, though i v; vanou* degrees,
in whatever hwiMing 'hey may be placed, viz.
! pitrh, tar,turpentine, robn, wax, tallow, oil,
' iuflammahklpiri's, sulphur, heit<p,flax, cotton,
dry goods of an inflammable Hyind opened.—
Glafs, china ware or porcelain, especially un
packed; Looking glafTes, jewelery ; and all o
ther articles mors than commonly inflammable,
r>r rrore than commonly.liable to injury by sud
den removal or by m®ifture9, or particularly
obnoxious te theft on an alarm of fire.
Letter? poll paid, dire<£led to the Secrctai y of
the Board of Dire&ors, will be duly attended
to. An order for Infuranceaccompanied by the
me.ans of paying the premium, will be imme
diately execution the premium being paid. If
the application contain an inquiry only, it will
1 boanfwered. ,
By order of the Board,
EBENEZER HAZARD, Sec'ry.
• Office of the Insurance Company o/Nort!» \
America ; Phi!ail. Feb. I, 1798. 5
Feb. 14. iatptf
Bank of Penn/ylvania,
September 3d, 17*93.
1 TTTHEHEAS the Houle at present occupied
VV by the Bank of Pennsylvania was enter
-5 ed on the night of thefirft instant, by some vil■
j lains. who robbed the institution of sundry
Bank N'otes, amongfl which were the follow
ing post notes of the Bink of New-York, viz.
I No 1002 1 dated 13d of Augutt, 1798, Dolls
[ ifTued in favor of Seabring &
Van Wyck, tor 396 22
> 'No lc«3, dated 25th of AuguS, 1798,
ifTued in favor of Montgom
ery and Newbold for 1250
, No XOO6, 17th do. do. do. aooo
1 f 1007, do. do. do. do. 2000
1008, do. do do. do. 2000
; 1009, do. do. do. do. acos
> 1010, 28th do. do. do. 2000
» Toil, do. do. do. do. 2000
ion, do. do. do. 1500
' 1013, do. do. do. do. 1000
' Also lundry post notes of the Bank of Penn
' fylvania, dated 23d July 1797, ifTued in favor
of George Hughes, for one thousand- dollars
; each, and fur.dry post notes of said Bank, da
ted 15th of July, 1797, ifßrtrd in favor of Geo.
Hughes, for five hundred dollars each and in
tlorfed by him. The public are hereby caution
ed against receiving the said notes, and a re
, ward of TWO THOUSAND DOLLARS is
. hereby offered for th- discovery and ronvision
• of the villains who perpetrated or are concern
ed in the said robbery, in addition to the reward
ofiered by the Governor of the Commonwealth
in his Proclamation of this day.
Bt crJer of the Board,
JONATHAN SMITH, cashier.
Mills, Portage, See.
TO BE LEASED FOR A TERM OF TEARS.
TO be leafed, for a term not kfs than three,
nor mote than seven years, a V ALUABtIE
PROPKRTY at the Seneca-Falls, in the county of
Onondago, 1 ndftato of New-York, on the Banks
of the Seoeca-river, two miles weft of the Cayttga
ferry, and eleven miles east of Geneva.
This eflabliffiraent consists of an cxcellertr grift
mill, sawmill, dwelling house, harp, and apart
age or carrying place, with between thirty and
forty aires of land, under good improvement, and
as much more in the vicinity, as maybe required
for foture.improvement.
Thf? frill mill is a handftfme', new and well fin
ifhed building, of jo by 30 feet, 3 llo'riei high
and furtiilhcd with 3 run of excellent Burr ft'ones
and another of Sfopns' floncs, of the bell quality
--and the molt approved bo«lts; &c. calculated to
.make ail the different qualities' of flour for expor
tation or for home comumption : Itisacceffxble by
water from every part of the Cayuga lake ana Se
neca-river, as well as from the Seneca-lake—and
from its situation, commands a weryextenfive and
encreafing custom : The stream on which it (lands,
1 being the outlet of the Seneca-lake, the mill cau
never be in want of water ; and as it has been kept
working during the fevcreft season of the last win
ter, it is not liable to be impeded by froft :
The sawmill is also new, fitaated on the fame
stream, now furnifhed with an ample stock of
logs, of which a supply may at all times be pro
cured by lan 4 or water, of tlje bell quality :
The dwelling house is well calculated for the use
of the miller, is new, and fufficiently laige : The
barn is about 40 feet square, and entirely new i
The portage is 3-4thsof a mile in length, along
the Seneca-falls—over which were passed in the
last year, nearly two hundred boats with their
contents ; this objeiSl is already productive of a
handsome income, which niuft be increasing and
permanent:
Among the mlny advantages of thisfituation,
tauft be numbered trie fertility o'f the furronnding
country—being the best improved part of the coun
ty of Onondaga—the concentration of inter
cosrfe by land and water, the Geneffee ftateroad
palling through it, as well as all water carriage to
Grnevaj and the counties of Ontario and Steuben ;
which renders it's mod eligible (land for a Store or
\ Tavern—The river and lakes abound in (ifh and
\ fowl, and the country with deer and other game.
Besides the milU already eretfled at this place, it
is calculated for any additional water works that
! may be found necessary—Fulling mill, bark mill
. tannery, forges, &c. may be erecSted at a small ex
| pence—lron ore may be brought ia boats from the
1 Cayuga lake ; and it is thought to abound in the
neighborhnod.
The flock, on hand w : ll be fold to the lessee, and
the cattle, utensils, smith's forge, See. may be fold
or let the premises.
If a purckafe (hould offer for the whole or an
undivided part of the premises it will be fold.
F#r terms of sale or lease, apply to mr. Wil
helmus Mynderse, at the Seneca falls, or to the
! fubferiber, at Schene&ady.
STEPHEN N. BAYARD.
I i'ine 15 2aw2m
Federal Mills,
A DJOINING Georgetown, and the City of
J il Wa(hingt«n, will be offered at Public Sale,
' on theioth day el September next, at the Union
Tavern, if not previonfly fold at Private sale.
Those millsin point of situation for bufinefsand
na'oral advantages are generally admitted to be
equal to any in America. The Merchant Mill is
a large brick house, eighty feet by fifty, aimoft
new, in which are ercflcd four pair of Burr mill
ftoues with elevators, hopperboys and bolting
cloths, completely faifhed and conflruelcd in fucn
a manner that thi; whole of the mtlls may manu
facture flour at the fame rime. The country mill
which is ereiled near the other, is entirely new,
a strong stone building, containing one pair of
(tones, and built ia such a manner that the second
pair may be put op with little cxpence. This mill
ia conveniently finifhed, and calculated to carry on
extenfivcly, cauntrywork, of which it gets a con
stant supply. There is belonging to the said mills
27) acres of land, the whole of which will be
fold with the Jnills.
One third of the purchase money will be requir
ed in sixty days from the day of sale, and f_,r the
balance a liberal credit will be given. Further
particulars willbc made known on the day of sale,
JOSEPH E. ROWX.ES,
Surviving partner of
JOSEPH E. ROXVLES ts" Co.
Georgetown, jlliy »3 —jawts
DUTY on CARRIAGES.
Nolice is hereby given,
agreeably to an aft of Congref* of the
1 Unit;d States of America, parted at Phila
delphia the ißth of May, 1796, laying du
ties on carriages lor the conveyance of person, and
rupcalinir the forrser ails for that purpose—That
there (hall be levied, cotlcScd and paid, upon all
caru?gts for the conveyance of persons, which
fiiall be kept by er for any person, for his or htr
own use, or to Ist out to hire, or for the convey
ing of pafleiigers, the several duties and rates fal
lowing, viz. dolls.
For and 1 every coach 15
upon every chariot 11
upon every post chariot 11
upon every post chaise li
uponevery phaeton, with or without top 9
upor. every coachee ( 9
upon other carriages, having patmel }
worlf aliove, with blinds, glaffcs, > 9
' or curtains j
upon four-wheel carriage*, naving
frame polls and tops, with fieel V (5
springs J
upon four-wheel top carriages, with "J
wooden or iron springs on jacks j
upon ct.rric'.es with tops 3
upon chaiies with tops 3
upon chairs with *ops 3
upon sulkies with tops 3
upon other two wheel top carriages 3
upon two wheel carriages with steel')
or iron springs J - 1
For and upon all othertwo wheel carriages a
upon every soar wheeled sariiage, J
having framed pods and tcps, C j
and resting upon wooden spars j
The ColleiSor of the revenue ol the firft division
of the firft survey of the diflriift of Pennsylvania,
will attend daily until the 30th day of September
next, for the purpose of receiving the dutie-s on
carriages, at Germantown, cn the Main street, a
little above the sign of the King of Prussia, of
which all persons poftelfcd of such carriages are
desired tdtoalce notice.
Notice is also given,
To all re»ail dealers in wines and foreign distilled
spirituous liquors, that licenses will be granted to
them ; one licence for carrying on the business of
retailing of win s in a less quantity, cr in left
uantities, than 30 gallons— and one licence for
nrying on the business of retailing fpirivuous li
quors in less quantities than twenty gillons, at the
fame time aid at the fame place, by
JAMES ASH,
Collector of the 111 division of the ift
Survey of thediftriA of Pennsylvania.
Oflice of ln pe<slioii at Germantown, ")
an August, 1798. j
•■J3' Every denomination of Stamps to be had
at said ofiic?.
0" Tiie Stamp Press is removed
to the Oflk: of InspeCtion in Germantown, on the
Mai* arect, a little a6ove the sign of the King of
Prussia, -—where attendance will be givcu lot the
aicommodaion of those who wilhany instruments
(lamped, 01 Tuesday«, Tluirfdays and Saturdays.
ugilyta 21
For tale at Public Audion,
ON THE PREMISES,
FOUR LOTS on Harper and Keith's wharf, in
Alexaidria, on the »6th day of October
next, if no fold at private sale before that time.
One of thtfe lots is near the end of the wharf,
twenty feetbeyond which the water fstwo fathoms
deep, aboui forty Tcet out three fathoms, fifty feet
out the waer is foiir * fathoms, aDd gro»s deeper
until it coned to the channel, which is abbut sev
enty feet fr>m the'end of the whart. There is
as much dit belonging to the bank as will level
this what-f, which rr.av want raifingahout a foot
near tl/e cnl. There is in this Xale an half acre lot
vety fit (Or . tavern ; it is Well watered, and an ex
cellent ttaai for'that business. This property will
be fold for nsady money, and altogether or lepar
ate, as in ay be ft suit the purchaf«r ; it lays on the
loWer tide if Alexandria, which is no.w improving
very faft. \fltitchof the ground may f .en in
ths hs.nds of the PriHter hereof. For terms at
private sale apyly to Wm HarTshorne, or to
the fubferiber, inAlexandria.
JOHN HARPER,
scptemVr 3 iawßw
Wants iimployinent,
A YOUNG MAN, who has served a regu
lar aprenticefhip to the mercantile busi
ness in this (ity, wishes to engage in a Couuting
house or oflca. « rites a good hand and under
stands atcotnts, can be well recommended ar.d
security givn if required. Enquire at the
office of iht Gazette.
j»Pe at 3awtf
Bakenridge—for sale
IT confiilsof 920 acres, alrnoft all of which is
a fins ricl Meadow, (the residence of the late
Eurl of Stcrlng). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farns, four of which are bounded on the
Eall by the rirer Pafaiek.
Th.re arc >n ita number of buildings, forming;
afquare of narly three aeres—The dwelling house
is a very conienientone.and[a would
put it in tomflete repair.
The orcharf consists of 1500 fin»bearing engraf
ed Apple Treis—and there is on other parts of said
tra<st near 30: othir Apple Trees—as also a great
variety of otter fruits, particularly Cherries of the
best ami >noft delicious kinds.
Also, a greit number of beautiful Exotics and
Forest Trees, :hat add to the beauty and converg
ence of the piace. Its situation is about 18 miles
from the towisof Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
fr»m Morris-lown, and 11 front Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc troible, the price is five pound pr. acre
ia ca(h, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chefuut treet
cbeuary 1. eodtf
Patent Ploughs,
TO be foldfor eafh by Joseph Salter at Atfion
Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry—Jonathan
Barker, Woodbury—and Jefle Evans, Lumber
ton, Those vho haveufed them give them the
preferentw to any other kind, as they require
l«fs team, breik the ground better, are kept in
order at less sxpence and are fold at a cheaper
rate—the planis much Amplified and consists of
but one piece cf cast iron, with the handles and
beam ef wood; they may befixed with wrought
lays and coulters to be pat on with screws and
taken off atpltafure
Patent rights for vending with inftru£tions for
making tbemmay be had by applying to John
Newbold, or the fubferiber No. 211 North
Front-street. 1
IVho has for Sale;
Or to Lzafe for a term of Tears,
A number of valuable trails of Land, well
filuated f«r Mi ls, Iron «V«rk« or Farms, most
ly improved, lying chiefly in the county of Hun
tingdon (late of Pennsylvania. Those who may
incline to viev therti will please to apply te
John Canan efi|. near Huntingdon.
Cbarles Newbold.
July '7 aawtf
To be Let;
An airy three Story Brick House,
ON the South fide of filbert Street,• betwe-n "
Eighth and Ninth street, formerly occupied
as the Surveyor General's Office-—Enquire at No.
Mi, Chefnut Street,
aujuft 10 eoy.
AN ACT
Fir 'be relief of the Refugees from the ariljh
provinces of Canada and Nova-Scotia,
u TIE" enactedby the Senate and House
e hec ' L Jt) of Representatives of the United
- States ef America, in Congress assembled, "I hat
- to fatisfy the claims of certain persons claiming
lands under the resolutions of CoDgrefs, of the
c twenty-third of April, one thousand (even hup
' dred and eighty-three, md the thirteenth of
1 April, one thousand seven hundred aud eighty
r five, as refugees from the British provinces of
" Canada and Nova-Scotia, the Secretary for the
* Department of War, be, and is hereby autho
rized and direfled to give notice in one or more
' of the public papers of each of the States of
1 Vermont, Maflacbufetts, New-York, New
j Himpfliire and Pennsylvania, to all perfoOs hav
ing claims under the said refutations, to tranf
' mit to the War-office, within two years after
the paSkig of this a£t, a just and true account
j ef, their claims to the bounty of Congress.
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That no
other persons (hall b.e entitled to the benefit of the
5 provisions of this ail, thanthofeof the follow
ing descriptions, or their widows and heirs, viz.
First, thole heads of families, and single per
sons, not members of ar.y such families, who
3 were residents in one of the- provinces afore'-id,
3 prior to the fourth day of July, one thousand
3 seven hundred and fe verity-fix, and who aban
-3 daned their lettlements, in confequeuce of hav
i ing given aid to the United Colonies or States,
; in the revolutionary War agaisft Great-Britain,
or with intention to give such aid, and continu
' ed in the United States, er in their service, dur
s ing the said war, and did not return to reCde in
the dominions of the king of Great-Britain,
! prior to the twenty-fifth of November, one
thousand seven hundred and eighty-three. Se
c<fndly, the widows and Heirs of all such per
, sons as were aflual residents, .as aforefaid, who
, abandoned their settlements, as aforefaid, and
died within the United States, or ill their fer
: vice during the said war : and thirdly, all per
sons who were «iembers of families at the time
of their coming into the United States, and who
during the war, entered into their service.
Sec. 3. And he it further enabled, That the
proof of the several circumstances necessary to
entitle the applicants to the benefits of this «dl,
msy be-taken before a judge of the fuprrtrie or
diftri<st court of the United States, or a judge
of the fupreme»r superior court, or the fiilt j»f.
ticeor firft judge of the court of common pteas
or county court of any State.
Sec. 4. And be it further enacted, That at
the expiration of fifteen months,from and after
the pading of this aQ, and from time to time
thsrenfter, it (hall be the duty of the Secretary
for the Department of War, to lay such evi
dence of claims as he may have received, before
the Secretary and Comptroller of the TreasUry,
and with them, proceed to examine the testi
mony, and give their judgment whit quantity
of land ought to be allowed to the individual
claimants, fti proportion to the degree of their
refpeflive services, (Sacrifices and fufftrings, in
consequence of their attachment t» the cause of
the United States ; allowing to those of'the firft
class a quanfhynoteKCcedmgone thousand acres j
and to the last class, a quantity not exceeding
one hundred, nuking such intermediate clafies
a» the resolutions aforefaid, and distributive jus
tice, may, in their judgment require, and make
report thereof, to Congress. And in cafe any
such elainiant (hall have fuftaintd such lofi»s and
fufferings, or performed such services for the
United States, that he cannot juftfy be clafied
in any one general class, a separate report shall
be made of his ciKuoifiances, together with the
quantity of land that ou£ht to be allowed iiini,
having.j-eterenoe to the foregoing ratio : Pro
vided, iliat in cpnfidering whst compenf ti»n
ought to be made by virtue of this adl, all grants
except military gfanT?, which may have TJeerT
made by the United /tarrj, or individual States,
(hall be confiijtred at the just value thereof, at
the time the fame were made, rtfpe&iuely, ei
ther in wb- ,e or In part, if the cafe may be, a
latisfaflion to tktjfe who may hare received the
fame : Provided atfo, that no claim under this
law, (hall be afiignable until after report mide
to Congress, as aforefaid, and until the said
lands be granted to the perfcms entitled to the
benefit of this afl.
Sec. 5. Brit further enaHed, Tluit all claims
in virtue or said resolutions of Congress, which
shall not be exhibited as aforefaid, within the
time by thi« a<S limited, (hall forever thereafter
be barred.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives
TH : JEFFERSON,
Viee-Prefiient of the United States,
and Prefiftent of the Senate.
Approved, 7, 1798.
JOHN ADAMS,
Prefideht cf the United States.
Depofiled among the Rolls in the office of the
Department of State,
Timothy Pickering,
Secretary of State.
C-J~ Pursuant to the above Aft, No
tice is hereby given to all perfbns hav
ing claims under the resolutions of Con
gress, of the 23d of April, 1783, and
the 13th of April, to tranfinitto
the War-Office within two years after
the'palling of the laid Aft, viz. the 7th
day of April, 1798* a just and true ac
count of their claims to tiie bounty of
Congress.
In the proof of Claims, a ftrift atten
tion must be paid to th« requisitions of
the 2d and 3d Se&ions of the Aft.
JAMES M'IIENRY,
Secretary of IVar.
j"'y 19 jaw6w
AURORA OFFICE,
October 10, 1798.
Reports having been circulated
that THE AIJK.ORA was not to Se rc-pubiithed.
—The public are hereby refpedfuily informs,)
that the want of hands alone has pp;vcv.t'd its re
publication i veral day, ago; but that such ar
rangements art now msiing as will allure the ap
pearance of the pajx-r in the cou-f: of the present,
or the firft week of the Bart month.
- 1 S 8t |
Mails for South-Carolina £<f Ge or</ta
PACKETS are now provided for carry in? the
j J L uhl ,' c „^*' lsl 'y water between Philadefohia
and Charleftoii. They will leave Philadelphia
on Friday s. The post by land will be csntinu
ed twice a week until an experiment is made in
regsrd to the expedition and regularity 0/ the
packets. If any person. chufes" to have their
letters lent by land only, they will please to
write tne word Land upon the letters : other
«« iT 11 b ' fent h >' t],it Conveyance which -
firft flart after the letters are left in the ;
-poll-eiiicc. ,
J°fcpb Halerjham,
. Pcjl-Mitjier Gemtt!.
Phi/adeljtf.va, Axgvjl 13, 171,8. j
This Day Publijhed,
And for file at the Office of the Editor, V„
119 Chefnut-ftreet, ' *
< (Price th of a. Dollar, J
JIN ORATION,
Pronounced July 4, 1 79 8;
of the Inhabitants of the Town of
nOSTUN, in commemoration of the annl
verfary of American Independence.
By Josiah Qyrtrcr.
" The inroads upon our public liberty call
for reparation—The wrongs we have fufta'ined,
call for—Jusfee. That Reparation and that
Justice, may yet be obtained, by Union, Spirit
■ and Firmness. But to divide and conquer was
the maxim of the Revil in the garden of- F.den
and to disunite and enslave hath been the princi!
pie of all his votaries from that period to the
present."
Observation on the Boston Port-Bill, &c.p.
by the late J. Quinsy, jun.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
Jost 17, 1708.
Notice is hereby given, That b y v £.
tu« of an ail, pafled during the present fef
lion ef Congress, so much of the aft entituled
" An Aft making further provision for the fnp
" port cI public credit, and for tht redemption',.
" of the public debt"—paflfed the third day of
March, one thousand seven hundred and ninety
five, as bars from fctthraent or alldwance,.
Certificates, commonly called Loan Office and
final fettlenient Certificates, and Indents of In
ferefls, is suspended until the twelfth day o'
June, which will be in the year one thoufaud fcvcn
hundred and ninety nin;.
That en the liquidation and fettlemeut of the'
said Certificates, and Indents of Iritcreft, at the
Treasury, the Creditors will he entitled to receive'
Certificates of funded Three Per Cent Stockequal
to the amount of the said Indencs, and the arrear
ages of intcreft due on their said Certificates, prior
to the firfl day of January one thousand seven
hundred and ninety one.
That the principal fumsof the fjid I.oan Office
and final settlement Certificates, with the interest
thereon, since thefirfl day ol January, one thou
sand seven hundred and ninety one, will be dis
charged after liquidation at the Treasury, by the
payment of interest and reimburf>ment of princi.
pal, equal to the funis which would have been
payable thereon, if the said Certificates had been
fubferibed, purl'uant to the Afts making provision
for the debts of the United States, contracted dur
ing the late war, and by the payment of other
sums, equal to the market value of the remaining
.Stock, which would have been created by such
fubferiptions asaforefaid, which market value wilt
be determined by the Comptroller of theTreafury.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of ibe Treafuryi
June 18 lawtf
General Poll-Office,
PROPOSALS for carrying the mails ef the
United States on the fallowing reutes will
be received at this office until the 20th day of
September next inclusive.
l. From I'ittfburg P. by Cannonfburg, Walk.
ington, Weft-Liberty, Wheeling and Wills
town to Zanes at the mouth of Licking-creek,
cm tke Mufkingum, estimated 140 miles.
Leave Pittfburg every Friday at % p m. and
arrive at Zanes tfie next Monday by 8 P. M.
Returnihjj—Leave Ziftss evefy Tuesday at 5
A. m, aad arrive at Pittfburg the next Friday by"
So A. M.
i. From Zanes, at the mouth of Licking
Creek on the Mnfkingum, by Chilicotlie and
Maficy's to Mlyfvillc in Kentucky ; estimated
140 miles.
Leave Zanes every TtK-fdiy at 5 A. M. and
irrive at MaylVtlle the next Friday by 10 A. M.
Returning—Leave Mayfville every Friday by
* arrive ai ZaireSHlt TJextTVloHilay by
The carriage of the mails to commence on the
firft day of November next and continue until
the fii ft day of Oftober 1800. Payments will
be made quarterly.
The usual penalties for delays and failures will
be stipulated in the contrast.
Joseph Habcrjham,
• • , Pojl-Mafter General.
Philadelphia. July 13, 1798. m&rh6w
HEALTH OFl"IC£. \
. Pbiiaiilfbiit, \JI May, I 798.
ItXtra<a of an aft to alter and amend the Health.
Laws of jhi* Commonwealth, puffed 4th />pril
17981
Seft. 8- A Nts be further enafted by the au -
J- X thorityaforefaid, Thieveryhoufe.
keeper w.thiri the city of Philadelphia, the town-
Norther n Liberties and Moy Jra ,nCn<r,
and diftnft of Southwark, within a mile of the 1 li
mits oi the city, takiog in bqardersarrivi™ fey sea
or by land, from any foreign port or place, and ha
ving anyboarder in his or her iamily, who fhali be
taken lick of any dileafe whatsoever, between the
da y of "ay and the fir ft day of November in.
H. 7 WUhm '"""7 dj P next after such boar
s r lball come to lodge in his or her house, (hall
y/ithin 14 hours next after the knowledge of such
hcknefs make report at the Health.Office of the
name of such sick person, the time of his or her ar
rival at the house and ot his or her being taken sick,
and of the name and place of abode of such houfe
nh&Vl? £ he Phyftiau of the Health- '
Ofiice ft. 11 forthwith visit the patient, and report
to the office his opinion of the nature of such dif
eale, that measures may be taken to prevent the
n' dln p. f tho infeftion ; and if any housekeeper
1 . ' neglect to give information in the manner and
within the time aforcfaid, and shall be thereof con
vitted, in any court oi criminal jurisdiftion within
Commonwealth upon indi&me, tby verdift
or confeffion, he or file (ball forteit and pay a fine
CO the ule of the said hospital, not less than twenty
dollars, nor more than one hundred dollars, to be
loipofdd at the discretion of the court, according ta
the c-ircurnftances of greater or less aggravation at
tending each particular cafe.
By order of the Hoard of Health
WM.ALI.EN, Health Officer
aWJm 'he Port of Philadelebfa.
cauticT'n,; —I—- 1 —-
WHEREAS a certain pci-fonfwi'i.dlea
from me on t+iefirft inft. by R ivin ff
men, lieu thereof a forged check on the Bank
of North America, anotfpf that date, drawn
111 pay favour by Mr. John Travis; and pay,
able ,n fix months, for three thousand four
hundred and fifty seven dollars and forty-fi s
cents. ALL persons are dtfired not ta re
ceive any transfer «f it. as it will not be
paid by either the drawer w endorser tinlefs
recovered by law.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Race Street.
august 6.
are hereb y iSorme3.
9 lIAI I did not mean to authorifa Col- Wll.
J. i»m Nichols to declare, that I would not par
un-ess "covered by law, my note alluded to in hi.
caution of ti,e 6th of Augufl, ptlUl£ hed in the Ga
zette of the United States of laA evening. I si„.
ter«ly lament h„ lols, and t-ld him I would L
all I . ould do confidently with my credit to fer»-
him, hut went rio further.
aiijust 7 JOHNTSAriS
5