w an d Philadelphia Daily Advertiser:
Nvmber i 789.J
For Boston,
Elijah Bowen, Mailer,
A, laiJMg Vcifel and will take freight low, apply
to the Maflcr on board at Chefnut-ftreet Wharf, or
Joseph Anthony & Co.
_ june t. diw
FOR SALE,
j u-|, THE ship
jJmst" RICHMOND,
JUST arrived from the East-
Indies and lying at Latimer's
Live and Cedar and in every refpe<fl as
excellent a frame, as perhaps was ever put to
gcMur.* copper bolted and (hcathed. She is 80
feet keel 274 fe*t beam, 12 feet hold, 6 fpet be
tween decks and will carry 4,400 barrels of
Flour. For terms, apply to
Mor deem Lewis*
mayi ? 2W
v LANDING,
At Walnut Street Wharf, from on board the
brig Amiable Matilda, William Brown,
Matter, from Bourdeaux,
Claret in hoglheads and in cases of
SUPERIOR. fiUALITV,
Brandy in Pipes, f
FOR SALP. t
Thomas J°h n Ketland. j
Said Brig for iale, t
ith two pair four pound CAN- '
NON, and one pair l zlb. CAR- '
may 29 § <
— ; -■ * (
For Cape Francois,
THK SHIP
NORTH AMERICA,
fail in eight or ten days.—For ,
, freight or passage apply to ;
Pratt iif Kintzing, 1
No. 9-f, North 'Vater, near Race Street. i
who hav 1 for sale, <
Port Wine, Claret, Madder, Red
Crust.Cheese, Tumblers, Tieklinburghs, HelTens, 1
Brown Rolls, &c. See.
may 25 eoddt
FOR LIVEKPUUL,
J|||l l i £ z e"r tr,
Isaac Mafter,
good new ve(Tel» fails well—
Uyicg Clitford'9 Wharf, will fail about thetentho
next mouth, a considerable part of her Cargo bcin
engaged*—For frcigb* or passage apply to
JOHN SKYRIN,
No. 96, North Front Street.
N. B. The Liberty is intended to return one of
the firft fall veficlsto this port.
may 29 dif
FOR LIVERPOOL,
The remarkably last failing Brio
PENNSYLVANIA,
Tatsm, master.
She will fail in ten days—for
fre'ght or pafTage, apply to yAMES YARD.
iValnut-Jlreet Wharf.
may 23 IGt
For Sale, or Charter,
THE ARMED SHIP
BELVID E R E,
J«>nathan Reynolds,Mafter,
ttV-Z fiLYING at JelTeand Robert Wain's
burthen 256 tons, built at
New-York, by Mr. Cheeleman in 1793, of live
oak, cedar and locust—was completely coppered in
London last year with 28 ounce hard rolled navy
copper, and copper bolted. She is well known to
be a (launch and faft faijing (hip, i? well found—
mounts ten carriage guns and may be sent to sea in
a few lays at a very littl* expence. For terms of
charter or price on a liberal credit, apply on board
to capt. Reynold's, or at No. 26, North Front
ikeet, to
RICHARD D. ARDEtf,
WHOHAS FOR SALE ON BOARD SAID SHUP
io Tons rolled (heet lead
*0 BaUsEngli(h Duck, assorted uumbers
Thp Ship Belvidere, if not fold or Char
tered before Wsdncfday next, will take freight for
X. on don.
may, 19 §
For Sale,at the Stores of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
195 calks of mil* a(Torted
20 bale 9 ef fail canvaft, from No. 1 to 8
5 3 ca(ks yellow ochre
1 5 tierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 doz each
London particular ) Ma(Vira wiacs
India market )
TenerifFedo. in hogllieadsand pipes
OM Port do. in hhds.
Claret bottles
4 cases of Ginghams, Dimitie?, Mwllineti &c.
for the Weft-India market
4, 10, and 9 inch cablesand 10 coils of cordage
Writing fiates, ink Hands and prefles
20 pflrcheons Jamaica rum %
1 bale seaming twine
*,6 a bundles (heathing paper
THE BRIG
AMAZON,
For Sale, or Charter. ,
Nicllin is" Griffith.
April 7 turh&f.rf
JUST ARRIVED,
3n the brigGayofo, capt.Bingham,fromSt.Martins
A quantity of SALT,
of an excceilent quality
A few groce Porter Bottles, new
And twenty calks Vinegar
Al FOR SALE,
1 ' jehu Hollingf vjorth iff Co.
No. 22, Little Water ftr«et, South,
april 00.
FOR SALE,
At the Store of Jesse £9* Robet Waln,
On Sptuce street Wharf,
Port Wine in pipes, hhds. & qr. calks
X,ifbon Wine in pi >cs and quarter calks
And a few pipes of excsilent Madeira Wine
may l 6« cots
By John Fenno, N°* 119 Chejtiut Street.
PHILADELPHIA: TUESDAY EVENING, jUb'E 5, 1798.
Bourdeaux Brandy,
Claret in hhd«.
White wine in half hhds. A
Claret ***
Frontinac ( w ; ncs Caf£S _
Sautsrnc ( J
Lundi J
Red Skins
ALSO, a
76,000 lbs. Jacquemel CofFee. a
60,000 Bourbon do.
114 Boxe* of white Havanna Sugar —and -
50 Hogfheacis of Tobaaco
FOR SALE BY
JOHN SAVAGE- j j
june 2 j
Now Landing, .
AtMeffrs. Willing & Francis's wharf, about j;
65,000 lbs. CofFee,
In Hogftiead*, Tierce, Barrel', and Bags,
FOR SALE BY
SAMUEL HAYS,
No. 89, South Third Street 1
june 1 ___ ML' 1
Schuylkill Permanent Bridge.
PURSUANT to tbe 6th fcdlion of the ad of J
Afljmbly,' authorizing the Governor of
this commonwealth to incorporate the company c
for creating a permanent bridge over the river j
Schuylkill, a meeting of the Stockholders is
hereby called, for tii& purposes mentioned in
that fe<stton (which is hereaiterpu'olifhed for in
formation) on FR.IDAY next, the Bth instant,
at 12 o'clock at noon, at the State Houle. As
this meeting is very important to the mterells
of the company, a pun&ual and general atten
dance cf the Stockholders is earnestly requelicd.
By order sf the Direftvrs.
RICHAUD PETERS, PreftdcnC.
Srflion 6th, And b: it further enaflcd by the authori
ty aforefaid, That lhefald Preficient c*nd Directors, on
(heir being chosen, in the firft instance Iha 1 call a
meeiin? of the Stockholders, and that meeting mav
appoint five of their number to examin and report
tlie most eligible place or places for building the
bridge, and to treat with any body or bodies, politic
or corporate, or individuals, for the purchase of their
refpeftive rights, or any of them, to the p'aca or pla
ces deemed eligible; and when the said place or places,
and :erms on which it or thevcan bepurchafed,are so
reported, the fai.' Stockholders.Jor/a majority of those
met, may fix on the place and terms ; or the laid
Stockholders, or a majority of them, may at any
time agree to leave the determination, both on place
jind terms, to the Prefwient and Dirt&or's.
jurtc 8, 1798. d6t
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
50 Chests of Prime Teas,
CONSISTING of Imperial, Hvfon, Souchong,
HyfonSkin, Young Hyson and Bohea, just ar- ;
rived in the Ships Sampfpn and Ontario ; several com
plete sets of elegant China ; 1000 pieces of Nankifen
of superior color and quality; a few pieces of com
mon Madrafs Handkerchiefs ; a large quantity of In
dia Silks, confuting of Lutestrings, Saifnets, Peifians,
8(c. of different colors.
also, for sale —Entitled to the dt awback,
5000 boxes of Pate Graffe Cheese
in excellent order for exportation, just received by
the Chip Juno and Joseph from Amsterdam.
T. B. Freeman,
No. 39 South Front-street, or at his counting
house, No. 40, South Water-street.
may 30. mf6t
A Country Seat to Let.
NEAR the Frankford road, about four and a
half miles from Philadelphia—thefituation
remarkably pleasant and healthy. Immediate
poflefiion may be had Apply at No. 144
South Second Street.
may 4
TO BH SOLD, LET,
Or exchanged for property in the city of
/ Philadelphia.
A Valuable Two Story Stone House, and lot
or piece of ground, in Potts Town, in the
county of Montgomery. The house is in good
repair, and the lot made into a ufeful garden ;
there are a number of good f ruit trees therein,
the fitvatioii is high and healthy and one of the
best for any kind of business in the town, pof
feflion will be given immediately—for terms ap
ply to William Nichols
No. 117, Raceflreet.
may 29 *§
The following Certificates of
FUNDED DEBT OF THE UNITED STATES
STANDING on the Books of the treasury, were
forwarded for Loadon by the fii?p William
. Penn, Captain Jofiah, which hath been captured,
and the Certificates supposed to be loft, viz :
3164. 82. Deferred debt, in the name of Rev.
Edward Giddy, of Threilrea, in Cornwall,
Great Britain, dated JuDe 2, 1797. Certificate
No. 10,072.
8021. 19, Six per Cent. Stock, in the name ©f
Edward Home, of Bevis mount, Hants, Great
Britain, dated May 30, 1797. No. 15196.
3620. 50. Deferred Debt, in the name of
iam Manning, of Ormfby, in the county of Nor
folk, in England, dated July jo, 1797. No.
10199.
20183. 72. Three per Cent. Stock, in the name
of Jannet Mathew, of Upper Seymour street,
London, Widow, dated O&ober 31 1797. No.
11820.
For the renewal of the above Certificates, ap
plication is intended to be made at the kid office of
ibe Treasury of the Unit,ed States, —and all per
font concerned to talc notice.
ALSO—IN THE SAME V?S3EL,
Fifteen (hares Storkof the Bankof UsitedStates in
thename of William Manning,of Ormfby, coun
ty of Norfolk, England, viz. Three Certificates
for five (hares each, dated January 1, 1797-
s No. 25982, 25083, 25984.
For the renewal of \vSich,application is meant to I
be made to the said Bank of the United States, — '
and all persons concerned therein arc defircd to
take notice.
JN. VAUG HAN,
Philadelphia, may 4.
The following Certificates of Shares
IN the North American Land Company, (landing
on the Books of said Company in the name of
Darnel Lifter, of Hackney, in the county of Mid
dlefcx, England—viz. No. 2151, representing
1309610 13105, ten (hares—No. *ls0 —
13075, ten (hares—No. 2149 —1305610 13065,
ten shares—No. 2148 —11509 to 11518, ten (hares
—No. 2147 —11471 to 11480 —Amounting to
» Forty Shares, were fprwarded for London by the
(h.p Will tan Pc.n, which having been captured,
§ said certificates arc supposed to be loft ; for the rs.
newal of which, spplicajtyn will ba niide to the
Board of ths f.u.l company.
Daniel Neal Lljler.
may 1 *d6w
On THURSDAY next,
The 7th of Jun*, at 10 o'clock In the morning,.
WILL BE SOLD,
At the late Dwelling House of SaUnnih
ell, at the corner of Penn and Pine llreets,
A VASiCJ* OF
Houfhold & Kitchen Furniture,
Among which are, a quantity of Feather Beds
and Bedding, silver Spoons, Wearing Apparel, and
a quantity of Tavern Utenfifc, &c.
CONNELLY Co. /iuftioneers.
may 31. >O3l
~NU T I C
ALL persons indebted eltateof Sufiin
ah McDovvel, widow, deceased are re
queued to make immediate piyment and all 1
thole who have any demands agi'mft said estate, (
to present their accounts duly attcfted to Patrick 1
Lineham. 1
Reverend Leonard Xeal, 7
Patrick Lineham, J <*«*<>"■
may 31 *eod3t
Colledtor's Office,
Philadelphia, May r <;, 1798.
FOR SALE AT PUBLIC AUCTION.
AT the Cultom-Houfe* 00 Friday, the fif
teenth of June, 1798, the following mer
chandize, which remain in the Custom-House
stores more than nine months, unclaimed by the
owners or consignees thereof:
(XH) eight half faggots of steel
(TD ) zo2 one bale girth web
(FL) a quantity of steel
one cafe lamps
C&C one cafe bobbin
( W ) one box medicine
AB 203 one matted cafe Dutch books
I&C one keg herrings
(W) one small box of samples of buttone
rj)j 1 a 3 three bales girth web
[VH] aoo one ditto ditto
I N] 200 one ditto ditto
(Nonurk) eight jars olives
(ditto) one bundle slates
£LS] one small box locks dt *5 J
Will be fold for Ca(h,
At eight o'clock on th- Evening of MONDAY
the eleventh day of June next, at the Msr
chants' Coffee house. in Philadelphia, if
not previously disposed of at pri
vate Yale,
,A TH F FOLtOWING TRACTS QF
Valuable patented LAND,
In the county of Glynn, in the state of Georgia,
and the counties of Bach and Randolph in the
state of Virginia,
;000 acres at the head of St. Simon's Sound and
confluence'of Turtle and Alatamaha rivers, ad
joining the common* of the town of Brunfwick.
41000 acres on the Great Satilla and on the head
waters of the Little Satilla, adjoining lands of
Wm.VMntofh, John Howell, &FerdinandO'Neal.
25000 acres on Great Satilla, adjoining lands of
Freeman Lewis and John Howell.
44000 acres in Bath county, on botji fides of
Green Briar River, adjoining lands of Jac«b War
rick, Daniel M'Collumand JohnDilley, including
31900 acres of prior furvcys.
41000 acres in Bath county, on the east fide of
Cowpafture River, and on both fides of the wag
gon road leading from the warm fpringsto Staun
ton, including 5000 acres of prior surveys
40000 acres in the county of Randolph, on Bu
chanan River, adjoining lands of Thomas Wilson,
and including 4588 acres prior surveys.
30000 acres in Bath county, on the east fide of
Cowpafture River, on the waters of said river, and
of Calfpafture River, adjoining lands of Joseph
Grubb,.and incluping 5000 acres prior surveys.
The Georgia lands will be fold in trafls of one
thousand acre* each, the others In the quantities
ami trails abov* uefcribed.
Persons desirous to examine the titles and drafts
of the above mentioned land, will call for tVt
purpose on Benjamin R. Morgan, at No. 41,
Arch street ; proposals of purchase may be made
to either of the fubferibers.
T. FITZIMONS,
No. —, Chefnut street.
B. R. MORG AN,
No. 4:, Arfh tlreet.
JEREMIAH PARKER,
may 14. No. 9, North Eighth street
By virtue of a deciee of the liouoidDic me mgn wu. 1
of Chancery of Maryland, the tyibfenber will fell
at Public Sale, on the prcmilcs, on Monday, the
, «s»h pi June next at 11 o'clock in the forenoon,
THAT valuable and well known Lot of Ground,
No. 53, aad part of No. 54, late the property
of Nicholas Sluby, merchant of tnij city, situated on
Thames-street, in that part of Baltimore cuy, called
Fells-Point, containiog 58 square perches, wuh all
the buildings and improvements thereon. There are
' ereftcd on this valuable property, several large and
commodious bii-k Warehouses, capable of contain
' ing trom 15 to 90,000 barrels of flour, with a Lame
* (bed adjourning thereto, fulliciently capacious to
hold 1000 hog (bead of Tobacco; in perfefi (afety
from the weather From this well known property
is extended into the deepest water in thi# harbor, an
extensive and well conftrt &ed wharf,bounding on the
water 600 feet and upwards, and capable of receiv
ing (hips of any burthen at the lowest tides.,. Frr.ni
. the many advantages this property is known to poflefs,
it is esteemed equal if not superior, in point of com - 1
n?ercial benefit, 10 any in this city, and tnuft be a de- j
firableob eft to those inclined to purcb,afe so valuable
an estate. I( is unnecefory to fay more on this sub
' je£f, as those intending to porcha'e, will haVfc an dp
portunity of viewing the premises , previous to the
day of sale.
The tetrns on which the above property is fold,
* are, that the purchaser (hall give approved negotiable
notes, with security to the ttuftee for payment of
one half the purchase money with intere(f, within
three months, and the refidne with interest, within
1 fix months trom the day of sale.
SAMUEL MOALE.
* m3v«B. di2sthje.
* TO H!£ SOLD,
0 By John Nixon Sjf Co.
A few hhds of excellent St. Croix SUGAR and
0 RUM, which will be landed at Will ngs and Fran
cis' whajf pext Monday, the 2lft inllant.
may 16. djteotf
s Prison Manufactory.
g FOR SALE,
if At the Prison of. the City and County of Philadcl.
[- phia,
g Cut Nails of all sizes, from ;,dy to aody
o Flooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakers and Saditrs Thread
o Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's table,
e tomb and heaciftones, hearths, chimney pieces,
1, platforms, slabs, facia, window htaJs, fills, &c.
All which may he had on reasonable terms,
ie Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at
a moderate price. t
Orders from a dillance, directed to Daniel Tho
mas, agent for the be attended to.
Decent'=erß. " mthfim
C O N G R £ S S. , c
M t
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.. 11
Wednesday, May 16. '
fContinued from yrjlerday s Gazette. J
Mr. M'Dovvell laid, were his feelings as- *
fected in the manner which those of the' gen- t
11 em an from Mi(Tachufetts,juft fat down, apt
peared to be, he would not have risen. It v
would fee in that the 1011 ml of the din of war
had already reached his ears. He, however, t
felt perfectly unalarnied by the fears which
seemed so greatly to agitate the gentle man. c
When tliis fubjeot was under consideration
the other day, he llated some conftitiitional t
objections to the measure, which he hoped
would have been noticed, but thety had 1161 a
been attended to. Mr. M*D. repeated them.
He admitted that this force would be raised
without expence at firfl ; but if called into
service, it would receive the fame pay as o
thers, and there would be no greater expence -
attending tl\e training any part of the militia r
ireld in requisition], than there would bo in \
trainingthele volunteers'. It had been laid, t
mintia could not be depended upon, and
therefore it was heceflarv to have a regular c
force. If gentlemen really believed tins, lie 8
wished gentlemen would come forward and f
prbpofe a force at once. r
Gentlemen fay these volunteers will furnifh r
a very formidable force. This may be the ,
•cafe, but he believed it was very uncertain.
He could not fee why they should be more
formidable Hum the militia. He- believed 1
the militia could learn their discipline as well* 1
and had as much zeal as they for the welfare t
of their country. One of the grcateft induce- t
ments to persons to enter into this corps is, ,
that they are to be employed only in their (
own, or an adjoining state. The gentleman
from Maflachufetts propofws, however to
strike this clause out. If it were struck out, 1
he supposed jt would confine the number of 1
volunteers within a tefs compass than they (
otherwise would have been. But if.gentle- ;
men's views were to go the full length which
they contemplated-, there would be no re
ftrictionas to.the number ofnien to be employ
ed, nor to the extent of the time of admillion,
except the limitation of the law ; and C«n
greis would, in the mean time, have no will <
upon the having delegated the pow
er to the President, contrary to the exjjHefs
provisions of the constitution. He was oppo
icd to this mode of raising troops. He knew
only of two descriptions of soldiers, regulars
and militia, and he looked upon the latter
as the only complete defence of the country.
As to an invasion, which gentlemen seemed tt»
speak of with so much certainty, he thought
it altogether improbable.
Mr. M*D. said, he was not apprehensive of
a want of spirit in the citizens of this country
to defend themselves against any attack.
There are men alive who then fought our
battles, and he doubted not they would be
ready to fight them again, and others would
arise to supply the place of those whom we
have loft.
It was said, these volunteers were not to
confifl of the class of men described by the
gentleman from Pennsylvania. IJe hoped
not. He never wished to fee the rich citizens
separated from the poor in any scheme of de
fence. He believed this would not be the
cafe altogether, because he doubted not a
number of young men, who are not rich,
from a desire to serve their country, \«:ll pur
chase their own clothes, arms, See. and join
these corps. Indeed, lie had rather the arms
should be found by government, so that all
might have the fame opportunity of serving.
Mr. M*D. objected to this provision, because
it gave to the President a power not contem
plated by the constitution, of calling out tlre/e
volunteers war or no war, in furred; ion or no
whenever he pleases. These
men would form a regular army, not in this
or that place, but all over the United States.
For what purpose ? Gentlemen fay to repel
invasion ; but he apprehended they were
wanted for another purpose.
Mr. M 'D. granted with the gentleman last
up, that this country is in an alarming litua
tion from without and within ; and as he had
formerly said, whefh he saw real danger, he
should be ready to raifeanarmy, but not be
fore. He wished, however, the g'entleman
from Mafiachufctts to. quiet his tears. The
80,000 militia m requifrtion would be fuffici
ent for the present; and if they were hot,
more might be called. He hoped thfc section
would be struck out. He knew volunteer
corps were valuable men, but he wished them
to stand 011 the lame ground with the militia.
Mr. Dayton (the Speaker) did not know
how to understand the member from North-
Carolina (Mr. M Dowell) who, when the
militia bill was under consideration, had,
wi h some of his colleagues, reprsfented the
militia of their state unarmed and undis
ciplined, but now, when it better suits his
purpose, he re pre fj? lit.« them as in such regu
lar and compleat order, a> to be enabled to
repel any attack upon their country, and to
effect a'l that i 3 poflib'e for regular and well
disciplined troops. That gentleman had de.
cla red his opposition to the railing of
men, until an rftv lion had a&ually taken
place; a declaration, which was molt extra
ordinary and unaccountable, as oming from
ore who had m< re than once informed the
house that he had served in tlie aroiy. No
military man, Mr. D. averred, would delay
his pi epai ations so i re. eivmg and repelling an
enemy that threatened an attack, until they
I had actually made, the ..flsult and there ore
if that gentleman had ever acquired that
knowledge which was to be gained from mi
Ii ary fervic:, he mull certainly have forgot
ten or slept it away, for it was in direst con
tradiction to the plan of procrallination which
he had advocated. Mr. D. said he fhou d
' eave him to his (lumbers, and proceed to
itiake 3 single remark upon what fell from
the member from Maffachvifetts (Mr. Var
num) refpe&ing the unconllitutinnality of
one of the provisions of the fettion under
■ debate. It ccnld not be Jenied that the
' leading principle an i nhjeil of this feftion
was to authorize t'«» PreliJent to accept the
t services ■ f such yo nnteer corps, as might be
induced fro n moti rs of the purest patrio
tism to offer thfnifilves for the defence of
their country, a: <i uo 1 gemlemart had venttn'i
{Volume XIII.
eel to fay that there was any thing unconllf
tntional in this. The part particularly'ob
jetted againlt was matter of detail, and might
be altered or modified, if the motion for
llriking out the whole ledtion wa« loft. He
was however free to declare for himfelf, that
he would not agree to alter a Angle word of
that provision which authorised the I'reiident
to appoint the commissioned officers, for it
was what he molt valued.
Mr. D. then replied to the member from
Pem.fylvania (Mr. Gallatin) who had
called these volunteer corps of militia, a moll
formidable force to be pot into the hands of
the I'rrfident. That they be a formi
dable body of men. Mr. D. was willing to
admit, and that he wished them to be so ;
but to whom, h-' asked, would they be truly
f. rmidable—Ta the Invaders of our country—
To the turbulent and fetlitioui —Tn hjurgeutb
—Jo the during irfraSions <f the laws. The
member from Pent.fyl"ania a£ted confidently
in regarding these volunteers a- iinneceffary
to defend the country againlt isvafion, be
cause he had affected to believe that fuel) an
attempt would not be made, but he would
not surely fay that there might not be inter*
nal commotions or ii furrec\ior.s which might
require the wholcfomc corieftion of luch an
armed force. That gentleman had endea
voured to fix upon them an utdividucu* dil
tin&ion, ia Ityling tnem ' military alloca
tions" ; but Mr. D, wiftied him to inform
the committee, what the troops who quelled
the Weitern iufurredton wire, if they. w era
Aot military aflociation He himfelf consi
dered the whole of them of that delciiption,
and he well reco!le£tcd that a conliderabie
number in Ncw-jerfeyaa well as I'ennfylva
ina alfociated themselves together foi that
express purpose, weie accepted by the Pre.
fident and marched as volunteers upon that
expedition. Ihe gentleman from Pcr.nfvl'-
vanra mult have known how ufeful they were
011 that occalion, and he ha J not now to
learn that what has happened once, might
occur again.
Mr. I), concluded with expressing a very
eari eft wilh that the motion for Itriking out
this valuable feftion might be negatived, and
that the ferviccsof men so able, willing and
ready as these, to Itep forward in defence ot
their country, might not be rejedted.
Mr. Varnum did not wondef that the
Speak r (hould attach himfelf to this fedtion,
when he has heretof re declared, he would
defend the bill ii ch by inch. it was to be
expedted this bill would be carried, as gen
tlemen appear to be bent upon it j he wished
them, however, to (hew its util ty. Gen
tlemen fay it will be formidable. He did
not think it would bring any force into the
field. It could not be intended as a formi*.
dable rmy to face an enemy ; they were te
be a kind of Select Corps accepted by the
President, a dto remain at home. There
are no provisions in the bill for dividing them
into brigades or divilions, for adtual service-
They are to be under the cothmand of the
President of the United States; but no pro
vision is made for their organization.
It was said the force proposed to be raised
by this fedtion could not be cor.fidered as un-
I conllitutiomrl, and gen lemen have been call
ied upon to fliew that it is so. He d.d not
know what was to be underllood t.y the pa
ragraph. except it was to be taken as it
Itands. He knew of no description of sol
diers but regulars and militia. If thtfe vo
lunteers are to be considered a3 triliiia, the
conltitutioß has said that the iiu » dual
dates shall appoint the officers; but it is
now faid,they are to be considered a as put
of the army. Confideritig them la this light,
he wouH turn the attentio- of gentlemen to
another part of the rontlitution where the
power of raising an its is placed in the le
jljiflsture ; but if this pjnver is given to the
President, he might raise an army to anv ex..
tent he please.v without the content ofCoie
grefs. There is nothing to prevent him
from engaging half the people 111 the United
Slates in this way. He .as not apprehe*-
five the I'refident would abnfe this power ;
but he thought the Conllitutioß ought to be
held sacred.
What are the armed A floeiat ions which
the gentleman from New-Jcrfey (Mr. Day
ton) speaks of? They are companies elta.
blifiied under ;he prefeut existing laws. Are
th?y not all officered already ! And what
better would they be if they were to offer
, their services to the Prefidiint and have of*
[ ficers appointed to them by him. than they
are at present, with officers ap ointcd by
■ the (late of New-Jersey ? He could fee no
good efFeft to be produced by the change,
but he was apprehensive it would cause great
, disorder iii tlie militia cotps. Andafterall,
. it mult be the great body of the people who
, will defend tic country, and not city volun
. teer corps of young men al ne VVhen th 'v
, are neatly d'effedand well armed, they lfiok
, tery Well in the field ; but they are not able
, lo bear the hardfliips of fervicc like men who
t have been inured to labour and a country
life.
But his colleague (Mr. Otis) had said,
that gentlemen eontiutied oppe-fed to mea
-1 fures of defence. He h.iei no objedtion that
1 that gentleman fiiould found liis own praile
3 as to his readiness to defend his ».u try,
n though he did not know what title he had
- to cxclufive patu'otifn or bravery. He ciil
t not know why he (Mr. V.) should net feel
r the necessity of defending his country at
e much as that pent'eman, or any othe . If
n was not llrange that gentlemen fnould elil
e fer in opinion as to the belt mode of dtfencs ;
e but ihey ought-not on this account to he
)- charged with a xviib of fciling the country
>f to a foreign nation, or of making no defence
1\ of it. He bcUete 1 the militia fufii< ient torep~l anv invading enemy, *mtil an army
Could be raised. When the. people krow
the country is really in daneer, they will
not (lop at trifle? ; but, until that .hey
will not with to engage tberofelves aafoldiers.
What was the cal , Mr. V. afktd in 1 775 •
Tnc miiiiia tbeu w.er.t into camp, and con
ti-.med there u-4il the (landing army was
raTed, and they made as good a dofeoce. as
any ftaruiins army could a»e done. The
itlta of these men being wanted keep
d 'Wn sedition, and compel persons to be o
be<! cut to the law, which had been in
timated, W3S one h- thought which ought
not to be countenance'. He did not be- ]
licve there are many feditiiius person; in this !
country or that Handing troops are want
ing -to enforce an obedience to the laws. If i
there are difaff<£tcd and fedi '.ous persons in
t'uis con .try, such as have been spoken of, .
he
For lii* own part, he had no idea of any
fcich thi'ig.
Mr. M'Dowf.lL said, had he been asleep, '
the thunder of the gentleman from New Jer- '
fey ( Mr. Davtonl mud have awoke him. I
In answer to that gentleman's call to point
Out aiy part f the Conllitution that is in
■fri -gcil by the fe&ion under dfba e, the
clause refpe?ing the appointment of militia
officers having Deen already read, he would
fetrr to that which declares the purpose's for
which the militia may be Called forth, viz. )
'• to execute the laws of the U i n, sup
press lufurre&iont, and rep-1 Invasions
but the employment of these vol inteers.
(though in fail militia, with new officers ap
pointed by ".he President) is oot to be thus
reftriSe ; they are to be employed as the
Frefide .t shall think proper.
One word as to bi» own situation. He
had been pointed at as having fought in the
Re'o ution. It was true that he had fought
—it v.-as known, but he never boasted of it.
He trulledi if there was again necessity for
it. he should be as ready to defend his coun
try as the gentleman from New Jerftv, or
atyothrr.
Mr. Dayton, said, that opposed as he
was in argument by toe m mbersfrom Mas
facimfrtts and North Carolina, who he un
derused v. .re Gererals of Militia, he was
compelled to own that th" weight of rank
r , a im, but he ventured no fay that
ii ! -ey i (TeiTsd any military knowledge
whatever, they mull at once perceive that
the pofitior. they had taken wai untenable.
They had relied much upon the declaration
which h- should not controvert, viz. that
t'.ia country in cafe of ferjous icVafion mul
be defended by the great body of the militia,
and not by Anode companies or feleft corps;
but did it tlience follow t! at it would not be
advisable to encou.age and accept the fer
vic- t i those volunteer corps who by ell a -
lonp; the exter.five fcaboard; and were wil
ling <nj ready to bfcome the advance guard,
Slid fubjedt thc..-fe!ve> to be firfl called upon
for duty. WitS* as much propriety might
it be said tha because in time of War 'the
main, body of the Army mini bear the brunt
of battle, you mud not have an advanced
corps. -It was this valuable puipofe which
thek voluuuteers would be well cadilated to
fffeel, because they were generally fifuated
nearetl to the feacoafts, and were for the
molt part better equipped, armed and accou
tred thai .any other portions of the militia.
The'.' would also be men wiil.r.g to serve, and
it .o th- ft were give:i loiiimg office's alio, a
gretahly to :he provifiarts in the feCiion, he
trusted that their services in time of danger
would be tou. d to be equal to the mod san
guine expectations that had been formed of
litem.
r. R. Will i ams was at alofstoknow
how gentlemen meant to apply their obser
vations with refpedt to the unconstitutional
tty o> the President's rppointing the officers
io these corps, -on a motion to strike cut the
fectioa ; because if the motion doe; not eb
taia.the ftflioucanbe anendedin this refpeft.
Mr. W. said he was opposed so ihis bill,
as it . tut to raise a (landing army ;~but with
refpeft to this part' of the bill he was in fa
vor of it. As to coiifequences which may
a rife from the abuse of the power p-opofed
to be placed in the President, he did not
thick that a proper fubjeft of enquiry, for
he did net know how gentlemen could recon
cile the idea to our government of fufpefting
erery department of abusing the power
pla »d in them. If the persons who fill the
offices are base enoag'i to do it, all of them
may be abused. So far as the constitution
lias pointed out caution as neceflarj, our
jealousy ought to go to guard against the
abuse of power, but to fay a power fhall-not
be granted, because it is liable to be abused.
goes ajainft'placing power any where.
This fe£t:on, Mr. W. said, only went to
eltablifli the principle that the President may
accept of the service of volunteer corps 5 the
detail of it may be a rended as the commit-,
tee thinks proper. If it could not be amend
ed, he fhou'.d be disposed to vote against it ;
but, until he found no amendment could be
made in it, he (hould vote for retaining the
feQion. As to the principles on which the
service of these corps should be accepted, or
the particular ptirpofes for which they should
be called out, they ought to be deligi ated.
The committee had got into difficulty, from
not cosfidcring what these volunteers ought
to be called. If that wa3 determined, he
thought gentleme* would know what line of
conduit to pursue. If they were called
militia, the coaftitution has direfted the
mode of appointing officers to be by the
dates ; if regulars, that the I resident shall
appoint them. By one of these descriptions
they mull be called. He had thought that
this point was in some measure decided on
the motion to strike out the word regular,
which being carried, he thought these volun
teers were to be ccnfidered a; a part of the
militia, and) from that circumstance, he ap
prehended no danger from retaining the
c'aufe, as he thought it would be the means
of a good militia. He fhcu d,
. therefore vote again It ftrikiug out the feflion,
with au expectation that it will tndtrgo a
mendment in the way he had mentioned.
[To lc iwlivW.]
Xijc <Sasette*
PHILADELPHIA,
TUESDAY EVENING, Junb 5.
CONGRESS.
The House of Reprefeutatives of the Unit
ed States, yesterday, went into a committee
of the whole on the bill making an alteration
in the Judicial Department, by making a
Wertern C rcuit, to include Kentucky and
Tenneflee, and by adding two Judges to the
present eftablilhment. After fomedifcuflion,
on motion of Mr. Co it, who wanted infor
mation on the fubjett, the committee rose
and had leave to (it again. The house after
wards resolved itfelf into a committee of the
whole on the bill for regulating the compen
fationofthe supervisors and collectors ot the
Internal Revenue of the United States ; when
considerable difcuflion took place on a motion
of Mr. Gallatin, to strike out the second
fedtion, on the ground of this being an impro
per time to" raise the salaries of these officers.
The committee rose, without tak'.Rg a que(ti
on, and had leave to fit ajiain. MV. Sewall,
from the committee for the protection of
commerce and the defence of the country,
reported a bill forthe prevention and restraint
of dangerous and (editious practices, which
was committed for Wednesday,
This bill proposes that any Alien resident,
or who (hall come to relide within the United
States, who hath been convicted of any felo
ny or other infamous crime, or who (hall be
a notorious fugitive from justice, upon any
charge of treasonable or leditious practices,
in any Foreign State or Country, or wliofe
continuance within the United States shall be,
in the opinion of the President of the United
States, injurious to the public peace and fafe
ty, may be deemed and adjudged adangerotis
perfon,and may be required to depart from the
country and may be apprehended and remo
ved therefrom.
And if any person, whether alien orcitizcn
(hall secretly or openly combine or conspire
together, with intention of opposing any mea
sures ot the government of the United States,
which are or shall be directed by the proper
authority, or to defeat the operation of any
law of the United States, or to discourage, or
I prevent any person holding any place, or of
fice in, or under the government of the United
States, from undertaking or executing his'
trust or duty ; and if any person with intent,
asaforefaid, shall, by any writing, printing,
or advised-speaking, threaten such officer, or
person in public trust, wish any ganger to his
charailer, person or property, or shall coun
sel or advile, or attempt to procure any infur
rettion, riot, or unlawful aflTembly or combi
natiefr as aforefaid, whether such conspiring,
See. shall have the proposed effe6t, or not,
shall and may be punished upon theconyi£lion
of the offence, by a fine not exceeding f
dollars, and by binding with fufficient surety
for good behaviour, or by imprisonment for a
term not exceeding years; and if the
person so convj£ted {Hall be an alien, he may
be farther adjudged, in lieu of such binding
or imprisonment, to bebaniflied and removed
from the territory of the United States.
Mr. Harper laid a resolution upon the fa
ble to exempt from ordinary militia dirty,
such corps of volunteers as shall be accepted
by the President of the U. States durmg the
time such corps shall be refpeftively accepted.
Ordered to lie till to-morrow.
Immediately upon the journal being read,
Mr. Macon rose, and said hiscblleague had
laid upon him rhe painful task of informing
the house, that thair friend and colleague Co
lonel Bryan is no more ; that he died this
morning at nine o'clock.
Mr. J. Parker hoped that a resolution
of a similar kind to that which was adopted
on the death of a colleague of his (Colonel
Bland) when Congrcfs fat at New-York,
would now be agreed to. He accordingly
proposed the following :
Refolded, That the members -from the Jlate of
North-Carolina be acpmmiteeto superintend the
funeral of the deceased, and that this house luill
attend the sam
The resolution was unanimously carried,
and the members having had a meeTing, Mr:
Macon reported that tfie funeral - ould take
place this afternoon (Tuesday) at five o'clock,
from No. 205, Arch Street.
The President of the United States has made
the following Appointments, (with the
concurrence of the Senate) for the addition
al regiment of Artillery, viz.
John Doughty, of New-Jersey, Lieutenant
Colonel Commandant.
Majors,
Benjamin Brooks, Maryland.
Adam Hoops,^ew-Jerfey.
Daniel Jackson, Maflachufetts.
Captains,
Decius Wadfworth, Conne&icut.
William M'Rea, Virginia.
Samuel Eddins, do.
F. Kinlock Huger, South-Carolina.
Amos Stoaddard, Maflachufetts.
LemueJ Gates, do.
James Reed, Pennsylvania.
Callender Irwine, do.
James Stilie, New-Jersey.
Walter Livingflon New-York.
John Birtiop, Virginia.
John Henry, Pennsylvania.
Lieutenants,
Theodore Meminger, Pennsylvania.
Wm. Steele, do.
Francis-Gibfon, do.
Alexander D. Pope, Virginia.
John W. Livingflon, New-York.
John Hancock, Virginia.
Geo : W. Carmical, Pennsylvania.
Samuel Dickenfon, Maryland.
Phillip St«s?vart, New-Jersey.
Wm. Cooper, New-York.
Wm. Deveaux, Georgia.
Patrick C. Harris, North-Carolina.
Joseph Yates, New-York.
Geo: Washington Duncan, MafTachufetts.
Toppan Weblter, New-Hampshire.
James White, South-Carolina.
James B.Many, Delaware.
John Knight, Maryland.
John l'ergus, jun. North-Carolina.
Nathaniel Leonard, Vermont.
John Leybourne, Georgia.
Charles Wolftoncrafr, Pennsylvania.
Robert Weir Ofbourn, doi
Surgeon,
Jamls Scanlon, Maryland.
Surgeon's Mates.
Thomas Tillinghaft, Rhode-island.
Nathaniel Dwight, Connecticut.
Burr Harrifon, 'Kentucky.
Choice bt. Croix Sugars,
EOR SALE BY
James Tctrd.
ALSO,
A few p"pe» of remarkably fine Madeira Wincj
| fit inimeaiate use, and at a red uced price,
june 4 - diet
FOREIGN ARTICLES.
BREST, March 24.
The mi' ifter of marine left this city this
day. He goes direftly to Pari.r. He has
given some commands provisionally, yet
patt of the vessels in the roads, or in pre
paration, are without captains. There has
been also a provifipnal promotion of officers ;
among o hers, forty erfigns of (hips, wh fe
want was felt, although the s of this
rank were already numerous. The minister
has set out fatisfied with the conduit of the
officers of the marine, and determined to
represent it as it d eferves to the directory.
This morning rear admiral Reilv took the
command of the naval forces assembled in
the road of Brest. He has h iilieu his flag
on board the Ocean, a three decker, of 120
guns. 'lit is an excellent officer by all ac
counts. There are now in the road eight
(hips of the line ; feveval other 3 are to fol
low immediately. The preparations are !
making with great activity. The pay of 1
the officers and sailors is paid with the I
greatest punftuality—Even the arrears are !
r.ow discharged.
MARSEILLES, 20 Ventofe.
Two days ago, the harbour of this city
was surrounded with a cordon of troops of
the line, and the chain was d awn across.
The sequel of these preparations was a visit
to the neutral vefTels, to discover whether
they had any English manufactures or emi
grants on board.
About 400 sailors, bei.ig part of the firft
levy ordered for Toulon, have already set
out for that port. A second levy is at this
moment going on for the feme place, from
the cabin boy to the mate.
HAGUE, March 31.
The direflors Vrede and Van Lange, and
the French minister Delacroix, returned
hither yesterday front Amsterdam. They
likewise visited Saardam, Broeck, and some
other, places in North Holland. While they
were at Amsterdam, the disturbances among
the Jews,'which bad cccafioned the fyna
g6gue to be shut up on the preceding Sa
turday, were appeased.
The day before yesterday the proclama
tion was ifTued by which the primary as.
fsmblies are to be convoked on the 23d of
April, to vote for the acceptance or re
jection of a new constitution. No person
will be permitted to vote who has not taken
the oath against the ftadtholdcrfhip, aristo
cracy, federation, and anarchy : or who has
refufed to bear arms in the national guard.
The soldiers and sailors will be particularly
called upon by their commandeH.
In the fitting of the Batavian constituent
afTembly of yesterday, the following extra
ordinary decree was passed on the motion
of citizen Van der Hoeven, in the name of
the combined committer, at the head of
which were citizens Ockerfe and Van der
Hoeveit :
I. That the amnesty which has been
granted to the plunderers of 1787 and 1788
shall be repealed.
IJ. That, a just indemnification shall be
made to the inhabitants of the late province
of Zetland, for the plundering they then
fuffered, and that to this end, the members
arid minffters of the administration of that
time shall be arretted, both in their persons
and property, to prevent the alienation of
that property.
111. That therefore no persons who have
been-minifters or members of the late orange
administration, who still remain with the.
republic, shall leave the town village or
place in which they now reside without a
permission in writing from the intermediary
administrative authorities, or the provisional
executive directory ; except such as by their
couduCV have evidently shewn themfelvca
friendly to' the cause of liberty ; or such as
have been elefted by the people to any of
fice which they still hold ; on pain of being
even punished with death according to the
exigency of the circumstances ; and whoever
shall be found to aflift them in acting con
trary to this decree (hall 6e fubjefted to se
vere corporal punishment.
IV. That no conveyances, mortgages, or
other a£ts of that kind ihali be executed, to
the advantage of any person who has left
the republic, before or after the entrance of
the French troops, and who held any post in
the administration of that time, with the
exception only of such as have been above
mentioned.
Citizen Van Lange is chosen prefitfent of
the diredtory during the month of Aptil.
The administrator of the estates of the
ftadtholder has been arretted on suspicion of
improper conduit relative to those estates.
His elerk, Haaphens, has escaped.
Eighty-one chests, with books and pa
pers belonging to the late ftadtholder, have
been found in possession of a procurator or
attorney of the name of Von Maanen, who
hSs been taken iuto custody : and it has
been ordered that all persons who know of
any obligations or other effe£ts in the name
of the ftadtholder. his wife or his two sons,
(hall give notice of the fame to the commit
tee appointed for that purpose, thdt all in
terest on them may be flopped. And all
persons who have any chests, papers, effects,
documents, money, &c. in their possession,
are to give notice of the fame on pain of
being treated as traitors to their country,
■and even according to circumstances, pun
ished with death.
DUBi'N, April 3.
The ca'-alry and infantry yeomen commenced duty
on Thurlday night at Limerick, by patroling that ci
ty aud iiberiics, which they intend to continue until
the di{birbanccs in the couutry are completely crufh
cd.
Ycfteidav, dctarhments the U. C, Fofileen
and St. Sepulchre's infantiy seized some arms in the
environs of Mcrrion's Avenue.
On Wednelday lafttwa fo ! diers of the county of
Dublin militia, quartered in Cork, who were tried
by'a general touit martial, and convicted of admin
istering the defenders'oath and endeavoring to sow
fediiiort iA said regiment, were taken to the Mardyke
fie!d, near that city, and ihot," pursuant tothtir fcit
fence, ill the troops attending, the yeomen having (
mouated the guilds of t! e city. (
Saturday, Mr.Sweenv, a woolen draper, of Cirk,
was brought up from ill nceto the Castle, nnachfrge
of treasonable practices. He was concerned, :t is
said, iu the newfpapcr which was late'y JLIIIIhcd in
that city, called " Tlte Haro of Erin "
A man rcliding in Klhow lane, iu tied Metcalf hav
ing been charged with being an inlormr.r, a tnob col
lected about h s houle on Sundav, broke tn the door,
and proceeded to deftioy his furnitu-e and every
thing tlicy could lay their hands on Intelligence of |
lhi» affair was immediately sent to the A par
tv ol the militaiy, under the command of lord
Kingfoorougii and Mr. Swan, were o'deicd todif
perfc the rio ers. Wnile the mob were in the aft of
pulling down the house, the city troop of yeoman
cavalry, commanded \)y aldctmrn Charleton, and
the mccchantt' cavalry commanded bycapt. Black
wood, then returning trora eaetcife at the Phccnix
[Fsrk, attend d, and, (topped :he further progress of
outrage, and lectHed several of the clt.ndcrs, whom
taey lodged in the new psilon,
PAR IS, April 6.
We have to announce, that a melfctiger arrived this
morning (8 h iiiftaw) from Toulon, wi.h information
of the arrival in thai port of the divifioti under the
command of rear admiral limeys.
April 8
It is rumored, that a great mifundcrdanding has
take* place between I he dircftory of thcCtfalptne tc
public aj>a the grand dukeof Tufcany. -
It is mentioned from openha;en, Inatthe French
aire-dy taken fiveDmilh Eart Inota
men, homeward bound, exceeding in value 2,700,000
liyrci.
LONDON April 16'
The Hambuigh m«i) due yesterday arrived about
noon. The intelligence which it brings is no; of
much importance, but it rend* to confirm the accounts
by the French papers. The following atticie from
Itafladtis perhaps ol molt imoortancc.
" This day (April b) was held the 38th fitting of
the deputation of the empire, and it is generally be
lieved that not only the JLeft Bank of the Rhmeis en
tirely given up, but that the principle of fecalariza
tion is acceded to. The demand that the troops 011
Right Bank of lh« Rhine (hall be withdrawn, is now
stone infilled on.
" The best understanding appears to subsist be
tweenthe French ministers and the Austrian and Prul
fianenvoys. They arc continually giving iplendid
dinners and entertainments to each other."
A letter fromthe Hague, of a very rec:nt date, fay ,
" The law requiring all who are members of the
lateadininiflration. from 1787,10 remain imhe towns
and diitri&s in winch thfy are, has caufcd a great
'enfation here : the periods whom it affrfts are all
hallening to their usual Places of Rehilcnce, that
they may not be obliged to nmain in a ttate of
arrest out of them.—This law will likewise extend
to the property of our emigrants; and that at the
time of the acceptance of the conltitu l ion which con
firms its confiscation."
SWITZERLAND.
By the information which we have been
able to collect from different quarters, it ap
pears that the whole of the interval from the
time when the prolongation of the armistice
waj agreed upon, to the sth of March, on
which day the French entered Berne, was
one continued series of intrigue and perfidy
on the part of the French, and of timidity,
irresolution, and inconsistency on that of
the Bernese government.
The French had, as we have already ob
ferTed, from the beginning, their partizans
in the councils of Berne ; some, perhaps,
but those probably few in number, won
over to them by aftual personal corruption;
others, enamoured of their principles, and
desirous of innovating, at all hazards, upon
the ancient constitution of their country for
the fake of trying the experiment of a con
stitution founded on Liberty-and Equality:
—Others, again (probably the larged num
ber)dcluded by the hope, that if the pre
sent Wsfr could by any means be brought
to a termination, they should be able, by
fair parley & negociation, tobringthe French
to a sense of the injuflice of their attack up
on Switzerl nd, as well as of the interest
which France must have in preserving the
friendfhip and good will of so rcfpe&able a
neighbour, rather than in incurring its ever
lasting enmity, by a continued and unprofi
table aggression. AiSting upon one or other
of these principles, a con fit! er ble majority
ol the Council opposed the manly and deci
live raeafures which the Avoyer Steigner,
and those members of the government, who
saw with just apprehension the real; and, to
fay the truth,'the almost undisguised designs
ol France againlt the liberty, and the exi
stence of Switzerland'as an independentcouo
tfy, would nave adopted, early in 'he con
test, measures, which would probably have
checked, in the firft onset, the ardour of the
French, and which their own people, not
only would have carried through with spirit
aitd cheerfulnefs, if called upon to do fo,but
did themfelvcs call upon their govenmeut
to bring forward, and ultimately overwhel
med with their vengeance, those whom they
fufpefted of having prevented their adop
tion.
The majority were for treating; but they
did not ptefume to think themselves in a
situation even to treat—to treat with an in
vading enemy, until they had endeavoured
to propitiate that enemy, by a facrifice of
so much of their anciei t laws and privileges,
as they thought might,induce him to lillen
with patience to some modest proposals for
the preservation of the remainder. They
refarmad, therefore, and they opened a ne
gociation. The refoim destroyed the ener
gy of the government at home. The ne
gociatiou gave ample-room to the French,
not only to tucreafe their force by frefh de
tachments from the Italian army, but also
to regulate their operations from without,
in such a manner as (hould belt tally with
the preparations for their 1 eception, which
was busily carried on by their friends with
in the walls of Berne. •
It is unnecessary to repeat here what has
been published in all the newspapers of Eu
rope, the terms of peace which trance pro
posed—the modifications under which the
dastardly rulers of Betne offered to accept
them, It is fufficient to observe, that the
p ice which France exafted for forbearance,
was precisely, or within a trifle, the fame
as the penalty which she has inflicted for re
sistance—the subversion of the ancient gov
ernment, and the substitution of one on the
French model—holtages, proscriptions of
individuals and of families—and a sum of
money.
While the councils deliberated on these
and such like demands, the peasantry of the
country were crouding to the gateß of Berne
with offers of and demanding to be
led against the invaders. The spirit of the
troops rose at times so high, that the co n
cil had not the courage- nor the power to
repress it. And On the 26th February,
General D'Erlach, received full powers to
attack the enemy, if he Ihould fee it right,
immediately upon the expiration of the ar
mistice, 011 the 2d March. This concefixon
was no sooner extorted from the council,
than the French general Brune was apprised
of it by the French fa&ion. He took his
measures accordingly, deteimining t» makt
the attack Simfelf, when the Swiss (hould
not be prepared for it. He proposed a ucw
conference for the amicable arrangement of
existing differences. The French faftion
supported the proposal, as highly likely to
produce an advantageous and honorable
peace—the majority of the council were in
duced to < ome into it ; part because they
were weary of oppofiug to no purpose; and
part (the profoundly stupid members), yiel
ded to the old argument, that 3 rrfufal
would irritate the enemy, and would give
him an opportunity of proving to Europe,
that they were not fi;cere in the\r defirfc
for accommodation.—Fifty members
had the good sense. to oppose the measure,
but in vain.
The consequence of detei mining upon this
new conference with an armet} tnemy, in
the heait of their country, was the [with
drawing the authority given to 'general
D'Erlach, to attack him cn the expiration
of the armistice I and thus leaving the Swiss
army at mercy ofthe Frenchgoodfaith. For
a moment, on the firil of Marsh, the coun
cil seemed to have been sensible of their im
prudence, and a resolution was hallily ob
tained, restoring to general D'Erlach the
liberty to atta k the next day.' but in the
eourfe of a few hours, the French faiSion
re gained its ascendency, and general D'Er
lach's powers were again withdrawn. The
result was what might be expefled While
the deputies of Berne and Fribourg, were,
conferring at the conferences of Paverne,
arid the comcil of Berne was hugging itfelf
in the notion of not irritating the "enemy
and of having put it o»t of his power to
prove to Europe, that they were not sin
cere in their desire for accommodation—the
French general Brune, did precisely what
he-had all along intended to do, and what
the supporters of the present system in the
council perfectly knew that he intended, he
attacked the Swiss army on the eight of the
1 ft—the battle was obftinatg and bloody ;
but there was an officer high in command
in the Swifi army who was unwilling to 1 r
ritate the enemy. He abandoned his
charge—the battle was loft, and Frilpourg
was taken. The name of this wretch ha*
not reached us. We look anxiously for an
opportunity of consigning it to contempt
and execration.
General Brune entered Fribourg, as has
been mentioned in a former paper, on the
fame night that the army under general
Schaunenbourg entered Soleure We have no
further par.iculars than what we have alrea
dy given. Fribourg, we understand, was
given up to every species of excefsand out
rage. The Avoyer Verro, a magillrate of
high charader, and who condudted himfelf
with exemplary courage, was butchered,
his body was mutilated in a uioft (hocking
manner, and his head paraded round the ci
ty on a pike ! ! !
From the moment of the loss of this bat
tle by the treachery of an officer, fnfpicion
and disunion were propagated through the
Swiss army. The French knew how to
improve thef« difpofitior s. Their emissa
ries spread themselves through the Canton,
pointing out as objetls of distrust, every
man of real charafter; honesty and courage
—suggesting to the peasantry the danger of
trusting themselves to the couduft of men
who were hired to betray them ; and re
commending them to ensure their fafety by
ftandingby quiefly, and letting things take
their course. In many parts of the nor
thern cantons, a Louis d'.or was known to
be the fixed price which any man might re
ceive for merely declining to march to the
alfiftance of Berne.
The movements of the Swiss army were
such as to give countenance tn these notions
amongthepeople-asfrom thefecond day they
were (necessarily perhaps, and inevitably af
ter, having miffed the firft opportunity of
attaeking) in one continued ret eat.—They
fought however, in retreating. On the
2d, 3d, and 4th, there were repeated and
desperate engagements, in every one of
which the Swiss soldiers fought, in the firft
instance, with the greatest fury ag3i'nft the
French, and afterwards, when they were
obliged ta fall back, turned their arms 3-
gainst their officers, whom they fufpefted
of slackness, or of trea hery. [
The Council at Berne in the mean time
continued faithful to the system of coward
ice and with which they had
fetout. They Hill continued reforming and
negociating—a provisional government was
erefled ; and there remained but one ar
ticle left to dispute with tho enemy, which
was the immediate disbanding of all their
troops.
Ytt however, the spirit of. patriotism
was not extinguilhed ror suppressed among
the people of the country. That part of
the troops which were at Berne, demanded
loudly to be led against the French army un
der Schauenbourg, which was now rapidly
advancing from Soleure towards the city.—.
The provifionalgovt rxntent, though it might
have the will, wanted the power, to lelift
the entHusiasm of the troops. The venera
ble Avoyer De Steigncr put himfelf at their
head,»and if we are to credit (which we
are unwilling to do, while there is yet a
hope that onr other accounts may be true)
the intelligence that we imparted with so
mnch foriow in our firft account ofthe bat
tle of the sth ult. and of which we have
subsequently received confirmation, this ad
mirable man periflied under the walls ps
Berne, true to a resolution which he ha'd
long cherilh<|d, and. .often expressed in the
course of the discussions that preceded the
surrender of Switzerland to French negoci
alior, th t if an honourable death were tohe found, he would r.ct iurvivc tlieciiflave
metit of his country.
At his fideperillied !n the fumebattle, the
flower of the Patrician youth of Berne,
wliu, from the age of fourteen, had form
ed themselves into corp , and fought till the
last individual amomrft them was fiaiu
Not a family of nJiftiniftion in Berne but has
to record the services and the facrifices of a
fan or a brother, on this memorable and ca
lamitous day.
On this point at lead, amidst the horrors
and misfortunrs, the follies and the crimes
which we are contemplating—on this, we
dwell with complacency as well as regret,
and on this would fix the attention of our
countrymen. We have often heard the
Patrician blood of Berne undervalued and
derided. It has proved itfelf not incapable
of high sentiment and a&ion. Such
conduft reufl rescue them from contempt.
We trust it will recommend them to imita
tion.
After the loss of this battle, all was ter
ror The Swiss troops, en
raged at their defeat, confident that they
had done all that courage could do, and
taught to impute to their leaders a want of
leal in the cause of their country, if not
an understanding with the enemy, goaded
and i.ifcmed by t' e agents of the direftorp,
who po'intcd ont as the inilrurxu'nte of their
disgrace and defeat, those men who had been
crafted in their best endeavours to save the
country, wreaked their difappointflirnt up
on their leaders; and general D'Erlach,
with his whole fteff, and such members of,
t'<e old government as were moll marked for
their l.odility to France, fell a facrilice to
their miflaken fury.
From this periwd, when the Trench took
pon s fiion of Berne,nothing certain is known
refpc:K"g tile ifate of Switzerland, except
what is the natural conclusion, from the
fticcefs of the French—that the whole of
the country round Berne—a country here
tofore peaceable, flourifliing and happy be
yond the ordinary lot of nations—has been
abandoned to a mercdefs pillage, accompa
nied with circumstances of crcel'y and
r ' brutality of whirh any individual instance
would f'-rm a pifture too sickening, too full
of disgust and horror, to be offtred to the
view cf a civilized people.
From this date, whatever letters come
from Berne, must have parted under the in
spection of the French. They state that
Berne, Fribourg, and Solcurci have been
completely revolutionized—that the French
were marching again (I Lucerne and Zurich :
and that the shattered remains of the Ber
nese army had retired to Thunn, and the
Vallies at the foot of the Alps, accompa
nied by several of their magistrates.
The mountainous cantons have not yet
been reduced ; nor have they been persuad
ed to aecept the aflurances of perfeft securi
ty, and of the friendfliip'of Faance, which
are proffered to them, on condition of sur
rendering their arms.
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, June 4.
It is with peculiar pleasure, we lcajrn, that about
ore hundred merchants and gentlemen of the full ref
pcftabiitty, in this city, are about to apply to the go
vernor tor permiflion to form themselves into a troop
of horfc, with rcgu l ar commiflions, to s erve as vol
unteers whenever the public faf"ty requires their aid.
Mr. Sumner is re-eletled gover-or, and Mr. Gill,
fKurrnont governor of the Itate of Massachusetts, by
very large majorities.
BOSTON, May 31.
ELECTION DAY
A quorum of the legiflituie a-pearinjj yesterday,
the usual ceremonies and solemnities took place. His
excellency gov, Sumner v.ss elcorted from his feat in
Roxbury to the new state houle, by the company of
horse ; and from thence to th- old brick meeting
houie, by the independent company of cade's Io
organizingthe legislature, the President and Secretary
of the senate, and the G-eakerand clerk of th>e house
Vj?er£ unanimously re-elf £tcd. The anniversary djf
courfe which was a sensible patriotic address to
legislators was delivered by the Rev. Nathaniel Em
mons, of Franklin.
NORFOKK, May 29.
On Sunday, arrived here fiom Cadiz, Mr. Rich •
from which place he failed on the sth of
fibril, in the Danish (nip Crown Prince o! Den
jnitk, flans N. Flint, master ? and has' furnilhed us
With the following news:
Mr. B. ieft Norfolk with a cargo bound up the
M"diieTrannean: he was captured by a French priva
teer, sent into Algeziras (in Spain) and his cargo con
demned at Cadiz by the Fiench consul.
American veflels in the harbor of Cadiz.
Ship Mariana, cap;. Joseph Paul Smith.
Mary and Polly Abraham Wood.
"Hitty Jane, J >fhu a Ne»le,
Polacie Blinker Hii;. John Matthew;
Brig rtetfey, John Cardvna.
Diana, Waltei ,\Va)fli.
General Wayne, William Wild.
Schr. Mary, Paul Port.
Thb American failnrs would fufFer very much in
Sprin, 1 if/it wasnotfor the great attenti nand human
ity of the American conlul at Cadiz (Mr. Yznavdi)
who spares no pains nor cxpence to get them cut ol
Spanilh prisons, and fend them back to the;r native
country.
Lard St. Vincent is Cadiz wkh 22 fail of the
line, T>y whom tha| port isclofeiy blockaded.
TheSp.-iriiaids have now in the harbor of Cadiz,
ready for sea, 23 fail of the lipe, with a proportion
ate number of f:i>atcs and sloops.
The Pnnceof Peace has resigned hisofßce, and has
retired to h ; s efbie as a private nobleman.
4 All the Fiench emigrants are ordered to quit Spain;
those in the army and'havy are obliged to give up
their corftmiflions.
An embargo h;\*been laid on American vessels in
t>eportsof Fra'i.ce.
Portugal has made peace with the French repuhlic.
An * merican captain, whole vtfTcl and cargo had
been condtmrd inMie Well Indies by Viftor Hugues, .
had arrived .it Cadiz on his way to France to feck ie
ambaffadcr for a paffyort, he iclufrd him, <> the
lame time furni(hing Mr. Rutledge with the follow
ing note:
LIBERTY. EQUALITY.
Madrid 19 Ventofe (March 13) 6:h year of
die French republic, dnc and indivififle
The arkbajjador oj the Frtvch republic in Spain, to Ms.
Rut.'edge, ihaige Jes ajfaiis Jrom the United States of
shflti icu.
5 have Ihe honor to return you the papers and cer
tificates which you confided to me.
CH zen D'herrpaud,con'u general of,the reptbl'c •
v/horn I have confultcd on the demand you addred
ed 'o me in favor of one of your fellow citizens, ha&
informed inethat theie is a pofuive law which oppn-
V< my granting 3^v p»ftp<<i;s. I aui, charg'd to
r !.<ke thii kfown, * it will indicate the condufl you
vv.);n! to pu» Cue.
/-crept, f»r, the aflurgMe ;f my r ffand con- »
lidcra i'wi. 1
(binned) TRUG UET.
Macpherfon's Blues.
BATI'AL lON ORDERS,
June sth,
THE Blues are to afTcmble, for th * purpose ot
. Exercise, at the Public Square, MnYhi i and Broad
, ilreets, 011 THURSDAY MO'tNING,at 5 o'clock.
ROBXRT HEYSHAM, Aljdant,p. t.
VOLUNTEER GREENS.
1 A Meeting ©' Bufinef> will be held at the house
of B. M'Shane, in Third (Ireet, on Saturday the
9th of June inft. at 7 o'clock in the evening—Se
veral proposed members will be balloted for.
JOHN MORRELL, Captain.
June 5.
ARTILLERY BLUES.
AT a meeting of a number of-the' citizens of
the city ard liberties, at the house of George
Hill, for the purpose of 'orming an Artim.er y
Company, to be at'ached to Macpbcrfon s Blues,
Saturday evening, June 2d, 1798,
Resolved,
THAT a Committee, co;.filling of fix, he ap
pointed to receive the of such persons
(to the Articles of AlTociation) at arc disposed to
join the said Corps
That the Committee meet on WednefHay and
Saturday evening, at 7 o'clock, at the house of
George Hill, in order to confer and notify th« ap
plicants of their eleilion
That the following pcrfom be the Committee.
George Taylor, No. 4, Nicholfon's Court ;
William Flin'ham, No. 15, Keys's alley, or
New Oraet ;
Richard Johns, No. 1, Oak street;
Willing, No. 80, Wainat street ;
John M'Caulty, >v'o, 73, South Second Areef ;
Theodore Memingcr, No. 169 north Second ft.
The Committee invite their fellow citizens to
<*all upon them and enroll their names,
juae 4.
THE COMMITTEE
OF TH*
MILITARY ASSOCIATION—No. I.
WILL auend at Mr. Georgt Yohe's, White
Swan, Saffalras Greet, on Tvfonday, Wednefduy,
and Friday evenings, in each week, from the hours
of 7 to 9 o'clock, lor the purpose of receiving the
signatures of thofa who may wifh-te become mem
bers ol' that association. June 2.
Firfi: Light Infantry.
TO such of the h of thi« Ciry who aredefir
ous to join a Uuiform Cnrps, an opportunity now
pri(enta itfelf for enrolling themselves in the Light
Infantry Company belonging to the First Regiment,
commanded by Lieut. Col. Francis Gukney.
Applications to be made at No. 6. Dock-street.
Old Theatre.
WEDNESDAY EVENING, June 6,
The Tablature; or
just in time;
In Four Parts.
Part \JI.
Adclref-—Mr. Chalmers.
THE DDE, written by Garrkk, on ere&ing a fta
tuelo Shakfpejire at Stratford, upon the Avon,
the place ofhis nativity, and given at the Jubi
lee.—Music by Dr. Arne.
To open with the Overture to Artaxerxes, by Mr.
Taylor and others.
Speaking Part—Mr. Chalmsrs.
Laughing Song—Mr. Taylor.
<c Sweetcft Bird that ever fang"—Mr. Wilmorc.
" Wild frantic with pleasure"-—Thou foft flow
ing Avon"—and '• Sweet Willy O." '
Miss Huntley.
Part lily
Hornpipe—by mrs Ro<wfon.
Son}? Mr Wilmf e.
THE FERVOR OF FREEDOM.
Addreiled to Columbians—an epic recitation.
Mr Chalmers.
u Strepbon of the Hill, 1 ' —a ballad coinpofed by
mr Batrg.—mifs Huntley.
Part W.
A Serious, Comic, Profaie, Poetic, Heroic,
WhimCcal, fthapfodicol paraphrase on
Shakespeare's Seven Ages,
mr Chalmers.
A Capriccio on the Grand Piano Forte,
mr Taylor.
Song mr Wilmort.
" Cease awhile you winds to blow"—song com
posed by mr Taylnr—mifs Huntley,
Nominal, or All for a Name,
Comic recitation—mr Chalmers.
Part nth,
Pantomimical Sketches.
7HE WHI M;
Or, Harlequin t Animation
Harlequin,Mr.Chajmtrs I Clown, Mr. Lulfy
Pantaloon, Mr. Rowfon J ColumbineMrs.Rowfon
l"he whole to conclude with 14 Hail Columbia," by
Mr. Frederick.
Sale of Real Estate,
On Thursday evening next the 7th June at 7
o'clock in the evening at the Merchants Cof
fee-houfe in Second-street, will be fold at pub
lic au<H ion, , ,
A three Story Brick House ;
SITUATE on the north fide of Spruce-lireet
No. 31, between id and 3d flreets. the
house is in rompleat repair ?ofcet Fr> nt and the
lot extends gn feet in depth with the privilege of
ai. alley Piaza of 13 feet 9 inches by 11 feet, a
large convenient kitchen of io feet 9 inches by
13 feet 6 inches and a dory high—overthe kitch
en is a handfnmc dining room. The fire insur
ance on the premifrs is £8 o. extends to the 4th
December 1 799 ; the eltate is fubje£V to annual
paymsnt of £5. Pofieffion can be had in a ve
ry (hort time, and security given (if required)
to malts the ptirchaler a complete title—the
terms of payment will be one third cash, one
third in 6 months and the remainder in one or
two years with interest and security.
FOOTMWA Co. auctioneers. 9.
June 2 Sts
FOR SALE,
On board the (hip CI.GTHIEU, at Perot's
Wharf
Excellent ChWiire, and ) ......
Double Gioucefter \ CHEESE,
In fine order ALSO, a few Crates of
Queen's Ware,
Well aftortcd for Families.
.i"'ic 4 jj w
John Miller, Jun.
NO. 8, CHESNUT STREET,
Has received, per the Richmond from
A Quantity of Sugar.
Weft Tndia Muicovado qualicy».which h« offers for
lale very l©w lor cash or at 60 days.
HE HAS ALSO ON HAND,
A variety of Britiih Dry Goods,
which he will dispose of on the molt reasonable
terms.
India Calicoes by the Bale, See. &c.
j'""-* S Htf
Wants a Place,
A YOUNG WOVIAN* to acf:ad a Lady, or
- V take care of C hiidren—would willingly go
into the ci u'i ry, or to the fei flvore, as may be
required. Apj-ly to the Printer,
jur.e a.
J WANTED, J ,
Approved Bills on London,
FOR. wh'icji criih will be paid at par. Enquire
of the Cifhic/r of tha Bank Qf the United Stares.
j» nc 5 .
TO LET,
The Ho li fe No. B},
Ch'efnut, u few door* below Third street.
It is in go»d repair, and a capital Stand for kny
kind of bufmpis. Apply as above.
June 5. 5
On Saturday, toe 2.W oj June> inft. at eleven
o* c !or k'prec-fely, <will be expnjed at public veil
due, on the premises, if net prei'ioujly difpf
cd of by private J'ale.
nPH-E four following l«ts of ground,, fitnated
J- on Schuylkill, and extending to Plymouth
creek, about fourteen tmlps f om Philadelphia,
j about three miles from Barnhill church, and one
mile beyond Springmill.
They are offered for faie, chiefly from the
view of enlarging an agreeable fodety, and their
being eligible situation* for Summer retreats,
lince they command a beau fill profped of
Schuylkill and the country around ir, in 1 fertile
lime floneToil under high cultivation, and join
ing to a grift and a saw mill for timber and mar
ble, to William Shepherd.
The intended Canal, will jooaer or later nuke
the communication with the capital both eify
and cheap. Good building stone may be eafdy
quarried on the premises, lime may be bought
within a quarter of a mille, and scantling and
boar s procured from Reading, and brought
clown Schuylkill and landed en the premises
A liberal credit will be given tor pirt of the
purchase money, and the conditions of sale made
known on viewing the premiles.
N. B. If the (lay should prove unfavorable,
the sale will be poftponedtill the folbwingWed
nefday or the next fair day.
Belvidere, the 30th May 1798.
Charles G. Palejke.
The draft lately made by Heading Howell,
may be seen at the Coffee-houfe.
jftne 5 3t
; Lands for sale by private Contract,
Proposals will be received, by the subscriber,
until the firft day of September next, for the
purchase of any of the following very valuable
trads of land with their improvements.
In the State ©f New-York,
No. r. Two lots of ground situate In the
j county of Albany in the town called Lanfing
! burgh, and diftir.guifhed or known on a map of
laid town by the names of No. 71 and 7a.
2. Two trads of land firuate in the town of
West-Chester, the one of them near Oliver De-
Itiiey's, John Cox's and John Palmer's land, ad
joining Brouhs River, the other of them near
Devilard's fnufi" mill, Delancy's land and ad
joining Brouh's river the whole containing about
84 acres.
3. A of land situate in the county of
West-Chester, on the road from Kings-Sridge
to Delancy's Mills containing about acres.
4. A trad! of land situate in Montgomery
csunty, being a part of the tradl called Jeflup'e
purchase arid known and distinguished in a divi
fionof the said purchase into townships by being
part of township No. 4. beginning at the S. W.
bounds of said purchase and at the southerly cor
ner of said townlhip containing by estimation
about 5611 acres.
$. A trail of land situate in the county of
Montgomery, aforefaid, being frtfo a part of
Jeflup's purchase and known and diftinguiftied
in division of the said purchase into townships,
by being pjrt of township No. 31 beginning at
S. W. bounds of said township at the distance of
262 chains and 50.links from the most southerly
corner thereof.
6. A tract of land situate in Ulster county,
being part of the tradl of land known by the
name of the Great or Hardenbutghs patent, con
taining about 6coo acres.
7. A tra& of land situate in the county of
Ulster aforefaid on the N. E. fide of the river
Delaware, being also a part of the land f rmer
ly granted to Johanne3 Harden)>urgh and others
commonly known by the name of the Great
patent it being a part of a great lot No. 1. in
the general partition of said patent which came
to the (hare of Thomas Newham one of the
proprietors, and is known and distinguished on
the mass of the sub-division thereof made by
Charles Webb, surveyor in the year 1.751 by
lot No. 60 ; this land runs fame distance on the
river Delaware and contains aboat 3157 acres.
8. A tradl of land in the county of Ulster a
fortfaid in the south tier of lota in the Harden
burgh patent being the lot No. 12, containing
about 12,650 acres excepting therecut 320 acres
heretofore grant by Robert R. Livingfton to
Nathaniel Sachel.
9. A tra<sl of land situate in the county of Ul
ster, beginning on the Papekunk river, and ad
joining tne 14th monument in the general divi
Hon, of the Hardenburgh patent, containing
about 3.-00 acres.
10. Two equal undivided seventh parts of two
several parcels of lands situate in the township
of Chemung in the county of Tioga on the S.
W. fide of Tioga rivtr, the fame being part of v
a trad of about 20,000 acres, these two feventh#
contain about 57*3 acres.
n. One equal and undivided seventh part of
the said 20,000 acre trad in Tioga county being
about 2,886 acres.
12. One equal and undivided seventh part of
said ao,ooo acre trafl in Tioga county being al
io about 2,886 a^res.
In'the Scale of Maryland.
13. A tradl of ktid now called Hayley's pur
chale in Prince George's county, near to a bay
or ccve called, Anocoftin cove, containing abcut
1212 acres of prime lard.
14. A trad of land called Fortune Enlarged,
and part of a tra<ft called Beall's adventure en
larged, both lying in Prince Georga's county on
the ealiern branch of the Potomack, containing
about 516 acres.
15. A trad of land with the honfe and im
provement called Aron, lying on the eastern
branch of the river Potom.uk, oppofue to the
city of Washington in Prince George's county
containing about <75 acres.
16. A trad of land with the houses, mills,
other buildings and improvements lying near
Fort Cumberland in the county ot Washington
containing about 2088 acres.
17. A trad of land situate in the county of
Washington, adjoining to Fort Cumberland,
containing 400 acres or thereabouts.
18. One undivided moiety of a trad of land
in Allegany county, called spruce spring, the
whole ot which contains about 120 acres", also
one undivided moiety of 23* trads or lots of'
ground, each of which contains about 50 acres,
and are'numbered from 500 to 799 inclusive,
omitting and excepting: three lots which aredif
tinguifhed by the numbers 66r, 662 and 684 all '
which said lands adjoin.
In the State of Virginia-
A trad of Meadow land with eonfiderable
improvements, lying on Hunter's creek,Dorrell's
creek, Muddy creek and tlpe river Fotomack ;
and adjoining the city containing
by patent 29* acres.
Edward Fox, audioneer.
Philadelphia, June stb y 2aw
%l)z
PHILADELPHIA,
TUESDAY EVENING, June J.
TI-IE DISPATCHES
From our Envoys at Paris, tin's day com
municated. by of the United
! .States, to bo'h houses of Csngrefs, cOnfifl
of a letter dated on the 9th of March iall,
enclosing minutes of two conferences, ob
tained at the inftnnce of the E voys, on the
2d and 4th (or 6th*) of the fame month,
with the Minifler for Foreign Affairs. At
the fir ft conference, General Pinckney in
troduced the conversation, by expre.Ti'ig the
anxiety of the American government and
Envoys to remove the subsisti n g differences
between the two coun'ries. He fairl that
many inadmiflible propofi ions for effefling
that objeft, had been receive# by them
through M. Y. and that thev had' waited
upon the minister, to know whether other
means might be devised to obtain so desira
ble an end. In answer M. Talleyrand
said that the Dire£lory werej ex'remely
wounded by the speech of General Wash
ington, when about to retire from office,
and by the firft and lad speech of Mr. A
dams ; and that explanations were required
of the Envi.ys ; and that, previous to treat
ing with them, the D reflory ixpeaed some
proof on the part of the United States of a
friendly di'fpofitfo'n. Here M. Talleyrand
alluded very inte/lig bty to a loan General
Pinckney having intimated that a loan wo Id
exceed their powers M. Talleyrand dre-.v
a diftin&ion between acting contrary to in
ftruflions and adling in a cafe where they
were silent, and urged that in the latter cafe
it was their duty to ule their discretion for
the public good. He said the principal ob
jection of the American government to a
loan ma ft be its tendency to draw it out of
a neutral situation , and remarked that there
were several ways of obviating such an ef
.edt j luch as a reliance on the secrecy of
France, difguiling the loan, making it pay
able by distant instalments and France rais
ing present supplies upon the credit of it.—
To this it was an'wcred, that they conceiv
ed their inftru&ions did, not admit of a
loan ; that the United States had resolved
faithfully to maintain their neutrality ; that
they would do nothing in lecret which if
known would arrange them among the bel
ligerent powers ; that as they could not, if
leagued with France, furn.fli either men or
(hips of war, and money being the only
thing that would beafked of them, to fur
nifh money was in fad to make war. The
minister repeated the necessity there was of
proving our friendfllip for the Republic
by some immediate aid, or by fomethi g
which might avail them.'—ln the course of
the conversation the minister complained of
the Envoys not having visited him,and pre'
tended that the original favourable disposi
tion of the Direftory had been a good deal
altered by the coldness and distance which
the Envoys had observed ; because they
had cot made private vijits to him and said
he conceived their not having hadanaudience
of the direftory ought not to have prevent
ed it. General Marshall told him, that their
feeing the Direftory or not, was an objeft
sf 00 fort of concern to tliem, but that it j
was their opinion, that until their public j
character was in some degree recognized, j
they could not take upon themselves to aft |
as ministers. The minister said that was ve- j
ry true, but that.they might fee him as
private individuals, and discuss the objefts
of difference between the two nations.
At the second conference on the 4th (or
6th) the Envoys observed that they had
previously attended to the conversation they
had had with the minister ; thaCthe propo
rtions he had suggested appeared to them
to be fubftantiallv the fame with those made
by Messrs. X. & Y ; and they explicitly de
clared that in addition to those propofitious j
if acceded to, amounting to a declaration
of war against Great-Britain, their inftrufti
ons were express, not to ilipulate any aids
to France, either direftly or ihdireftly du
ring the war.
The conference on the part of the minister
chiefly confided of a repetition of the re
marks and propositions he had made on the
2d of the month. The Envoys several times
told the minister that if.it would be agree
able to the Direst ry two of them wou'd re
turn to America to receive the inftruftions
of the Government on the aftual situation
of thing 3, but they were unable to draw any
reply from him.^Thus ended the conference.
* It it uncertain on which of ilicftt days the lift
conference was held.
This morning the remainscfMr.BsYAN,
whose der.th was announced yesterday, were
carried from his late lodgings, No. 205,
Mulberry-street, Sc depofitedinChriftchurch
burial ground. The funeral was attended
by the Members of both Houses of Con
gress, the Officers of Government, and a
number of Citizens.
On the parade of the Blues,of the Federal
Legion, two hundred and fifty attended
this morning at 5 o'clock, and went thro'
a variety of evolutions with an accuracy
which gave great fatisfaftion to the officers
under whose discipline they are improving.
Of REPUBLICAN MODESTT,
Take the following sample from the dying
lips of the Jacobin Aurora.
" Wc can teadily believe, thst there are
persons high in office, even in the Federal
Government,'friendly to the cause of liberty
and equal rights ; and to the general prin
ciples of the Constitution, unadulterated by
Tory conftruttiofis, and who would, there
fore, he ready to promote the circulation of the
Aurora,"
Here is a fine specimen of*" exclusive"
patriotism. To fay nothing of the open ac
knowledgment of the guilt of Mazzei in
difleminating what the ; i:b!ic voice rejefts
i . > i ~ o ' f ' ' t ' 1 ' i
* i St.d condemns a'a trcafcm We and -MafpT'?-
J nous hrrefis-3, this feritenie alprve fabfta -
_ t tiates every charge thjit ha>. bf?n set no a
- j gat'nfl this infamous A..r<ira. This • Editoi'
| has ereQed d standard of political orthodoxy f
| and eveiy man who nriv. not choose to con
firm to it, is profpribtd as. a tory, and an'
enemy to the canfe us liberty, and equal
rights. ' What affeclat • fin fs it, any longer
- to decry the flavor Jicn fjes ps flavifl* cuiin
-1 tries and ftavifh times—take them at "thciV
i worst, and yow will find them Putdohe hy
, tlie irifolence and tyranny of intolerant ja
• j cobinifm.
, Fxtraß of a letter from LiJbon\ dated April I-.
•' n tS CUrrem! >' re P ortc d that the PortH£uefe
minifler, who uv.s some time since imprisoned
, at Fans, j s released ; and that the king of Spain
has undertaken to make the peace of this coon
try with France, I hope th* rpfißation 0 f
Prmce of Peace from the office o£ Secretary of
State in Spain, will "he productive of ? ood ef-
Jeifl ; and if is reported, and I wai a(hjred as
faa from the Spanfa ambafFador here* that a
Spanilh frigate had failed from Corunna to En
qland. It is alf:> reported, admiral Mazzared®-
has foliciied a p2ff|)ort from admiral Parker off
C-a'iz, to fuffer a Spanish frigate tp paf6 to En
gbn.l; Thiol) he t onaplied wit!:. Two frigates
a Virrivexl from Lima at Corunna with 7,000,000
jM'ars. Pour out os-live Spaplfc (hips which
ldi.ed from Monrevido, are taken bv' the British
iquaclron off Cadiz, , A n -fingjifh Tn<i»aman~wi*h
chcfls of tea, j6 taktrn and carried into
Spain.
*4-"* The whole number ' < signatures to
the addi ess of the citizen* of .Kent county,
Maryland, wasfin: hundred c.ndjix, and not
47 on ') r > as pubiifhed in this Gazette.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA,
ARRIVFDr days
Schr. Andrew, M'Kinfey,Georgetown,S.C.<>
Betsey, Bennet, Richmond
Sally, Church, St. Mary's q
Sloop Polly, Williams, 5
Comet, Carson, Virginia 6
Came up fro* 1 the Fort, 1
Schr. Betsy Hollun, Carson, Jamaica.
CLEARED,
Brig A4exander, Holland
Schr. Mary, Foulke, Port-au-Prince
Industry, Hay, Nixomon
Sloop Mary Ann, Black, Norfolk
Arrived at the Fort, the brig Jane, Watts,
11 days from Cape Nichola Mole ; also a
schooner and a (loop, names unknown.
New-Tori, June 4.
• » Arrtvbd, DAY#.
Ship Shepherdess, Rogers, Savan-.ah 5
Brig Thetis, Sprigg, N. Providence 12
Integrity, Gillender, Charleston's '
Ceres, Hand, Savannah 5
Dean, Eacherly, Savannah j
Apollo, Robinson, Savannah 5
Sloop Caty, Smith, Charleflon 15
80/ ion, May 31,
arrived—Ship Dispatch, Bowers, in
135 days from Canton. This ship, which
is oily 106 tons, has now performed a fe.
cond circumnavigatory voyage, under the
direftion of hardy and enterprizing Amer
ican seamen. Left at Canton, {hip Fran
cis and Mary, and Sea Otter, of Boston, to
fail soon. March 14, at the Ifleof Afcen
tion, spoke brig Alliance, Todrig, from S.
Georgia, who informed that snip Edward,
Jones, of London, brig Betsey, Bazin, of
do. and American (hip Thomas, Jeskins,
| were call away, crews saved April 9, in
j fight of St. Helena, spoke ship Denmark,
: from Batavia, for Copenhagen, which left
j there fliips Eliza, Stone; and Rufiell,
| Hodges, of Salem, Jan. 10, to fail soon.
: The Dispatch met with no privateer On
entering the harbor, she fired a salute.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
ATTENTION !
Hark ! The clarion's ibrill alarms,
Strike to the foul of flumb'ring thought,
Whe-eoji downy pillow laid,
Of foft (iclufive peace, it flray'd
In fancied dreams of innocence and
I To ° lon ? &e\£rc in flattering; friendship's (hade,
j Too long for confidence, with fraud rypaid.
Aioufcd, it calls' '' To Ar:n>" ;
rhe appeal is caught ;
Down the laborer throws his spade*
And iVizes on his trsfty bla-ie ;
The in)rcd citizens their labors ccafc,
And private Inter eft awhile negledl,
Their own and country's honor to prote<S.
Loud the guardian Eagle screams.
And soar nghigh oh thuhdVmg wing,
Becfeows all her hoaeft brood,
To union for the public good.
Her wide spread mark her firm desire
To iheit; r all who round her. banners range,
1 o g nrd her /reedom from the threatened change.
■ Mark, how her firry eyeball gleams !
Her anger'd the welkju wring;
Alarm'd, no more the eastern rays
She welcomes with enraptur'd gaz'.
Jiut eyes them light'ning with enfanguin'd fire,
With war's icll ravage, threat'ning wide dilmay,
Her pla;ns, her cities, marking as the prey.
Yet firm as Washington's jrreat fool,
• She-views with unblench'd eye the storm
Which ADAMS now in virtee's pride,
A second time is dtoom'd to guide.
She only fears her fons,
Too uuinttruil(-d in the worldN cecei f ,
In ranks defenfive may delay to meet.
• Trien let the drum ifs thunders roll,
Let the trumpet's clangor warm
Each heart that ever glpw'd with fire
Which independence could ial'jjire ;
Quick the deluding hour of fafrry rr.nsr.
Our danger's near, .iil ! life! onr country's c«U,-
Frcpar'd w vaNquifli. iiopr«.'piir*d wr foil.
POST-OFFICE.,
Philadelphia, 5/i j'une, '9B.
LETTERS for the iirir.'fn Fa< ket, for iraf
mouth, will be rectivtc/af ill is office until Fri
day, the Bth inft. at 12 «»'clock noon.
N. B. The inland postage to New-York must
be paid.
Tea Warehouse,
orrosrTE the posi-offics.
THE Subfcriiicr return-; h-.-r (incere thanks for
the generous encourngrmi-nt'fhe haii cxoerKr—
ced since Ker commencement in b.ufinefß,hegH -eav«
to acquajnc her Friends and the Public, that (hei a*
received a frefii fupplv of all kinds of.Tea-lroxn the
late ?rrivals>at -New-York, £<r, and it wi : l be hef
conrtawt enpeavour so m-rit tbeir future fuppor*.-
She i in dnily expediation of receiving a large fup
piy of gc- od Coffee,
SARAH EATON.
may 30 *1 rtiStiStThe Cargo of the Brig Minerva I
FROM BOUR.r)EJJX, B V
COW SI ST I NO OF
Chrct in Cafes
Oyl,C ptrrs, Olive*. Anchovies and Prunes ,»
FOR «Atl **
Thomas Fitzfimons- Cc
mayis.
For sale, ™
B V THE SUBSCRIBERS,
The Cargo of the Ship Richmond, c ;
Captain Hathaway, from Bengal, tri
Gurrahs, wkite Guzzies w;
Ditto, blue Guzzenah# ve
Salums Emerties p (
Gorahs Mow Saunas be
Mamoodies Penialeoes t j l
Ticklries Baftas m
Romnlls Coflas
Porea* Tanjebs
Chintz Malda Cloth? j .
Saul Gazzies Carwah Cloths
An elegant ajfurtlhent of
Madras Handkerchiefs
Benares SUGAR
CO ITON and GINGER D
Mordccai Lcivit.
mays diw jaw*w
Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS, >
Searfaukers and Carradarries, 1
of tha newest and moll approvad patterns, entitled '
to the drawback, just received,
an® roa SACt by ,c
Jl,x. J. Miller y Co.
No. 64, Soath Front street. «
may 18.
Robert Smith isf Co. lc
No. jB, South Frml-Jlrect.
HAVE received by the ihip Belvirlere from tl
London, a quantity of Knflia Goods, con- v.
filtin of Diapers, Drillings, Ravens-duck, &c. p
And by tke Fanny, arrived at New-York from ei
Olafgow, an assortment of Scotch goods. d
They have also on hand India Nankeens, d
Lutestrings, and a variety of India Muslins. ai
may »)•
30 Dollars Reward.
THE Cellar of the Subscribers was broke -
oj:en last night, and several pieces of Stor
mount ground Chintz of a set figure were car- r
ried off. \Vhoever will apprehend the thief or
or recover the goods, (hall receive the
above reward, or in proportion for any part .
thereof. ROBERT SMITH 5c Co. 1
No 58 South Ftont-flreet.
may 23
Frefli Teas. 1
Jujf Imported, in the Jhip Delaware, \
Captain Cooper, frorti Canton,
And For Sale, by E
SAMUEL HOWELL, a
At" his Comptiag House, No. 54, Chsfnut-ftreet, si
and by j C
SAM.. E. HOWELL, 11<
At his Compting House, Crooked biilet wharf, a
Bbhea,Souchong,Hyfon,Young *
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
A L3O, t
China Ware, afiorted ; black an4cb!oured Lute-
firings and Satfcins, Naskeens, Cassia, large garden '
and common fans, fattin and luteftrtng Umbrellas,
whale-bone ftlfcks.
They have also Far Safe,
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna HanJfcerchUfs,
French Canabricfas and Umbrellas, Sugai ir boxes. _
march 8. j
Now Opening, I
At Wi 1.l IA mM'L AW s Saddle Manufactory, i /
No. 72, Chefnut Street, a
A general aflortment of Horleman's r
Pistols, Jireit from the Manufacturers in London. 1
ALSO ON HAND,
Saddles, Bridles, Holders, Half Covers, Light • 1
Horseman's Caps, Swords, Cartouh B< xes, Va- j
lices, Saddle Bags, Portmanteau's, Hard Leather 1
Trunks, Carriage an«l Chair Harness, &c.
April 9 __ dtf 1 j
FOR SALE,
A Black Man,
WHO has five years and a half to serve, is a ;
good coachman, an excellent waiter, and '
has been accustomed to marketing for a family—
his age about thirty two year*. For fu'ther parti- £
culars, apply at the office «f this Gazette,
may 15. §
OX BLEF. !
100 Barrels ) of B ef of best quality, put 1
50 half Barrels {up with carefor long voyages. I
ICC Barrels of Connecticut Pork. 1
50 Barrels of Connecticut Tongues.
WINES.
35 Pipes of Madeira Wine
30 Pipes of Fort
! 30 half casks of Sherry
30 Casks of Lisbon
300 Cases of French Claret, of excellent
quality.
800 Barrels of Scraped FLOUR,
100 Barrels of Condemned, and
20 Boxes of best Durham Mustard.
For Sale by
John Skyrin,
Landenberger's Wharf.
may 4 eodtf
NOffTLANDING]
From on board the brig Amiable Matilda, from
Bourdesux, and for sale by the fubferiber,
88 casks CLARET
72 do. do. of a fjjperfcr quality
% trunks green PARASOLS.
Thomas Murgatroyd)
No. 11, Walnut-ilreet.
IVHO HAS OK HAND,
White Wine, in half Casks
Sweet Oil of a superior quality, in
boxes and bafkct»
Lunelle , Entitled to
Sauterne / Drawback.
Iri!h Market V WINES in Cases
Macarty and I
Medcc J J
Rota Wine in hhds.
Pimento in bags. 1
may 29. eodtf
may 28. 3t
Forty Dollars Reward.
RAN AWAY, on the 7th of April, a Negro *
Man, named Glajgow, perhaps he may pass 1
by the name of Glafgoiv Lee, or may change his 1
name ; he is aSout thirty one years of age, nearly <
fix feet high, has a fear in the upper part of his un-> 1
der lip, a f mall part being bitten out between the 1
middle and the corner of his mouth (I believe on *
the right fide), his left hand has be n Yery forr,
and was so at the time he ran away, by being burnt J
some time pall : he is a Pout, strong fellow, aiid
has been employed at a saw mill a few years: he (
went away in company with a negro woman of 1
Mr. Joshua Lingoe,of this county, "it is supposed <
thsy are gone into Delaware State. Any person f
that fccures said Negro Man in'any yaol, that the f
fubferiber shall get him again, shall receive the c
above rewar l. JLSME BAYLY. t
Stats of Maryland, "J
4 omerfet County, april 10. J may 4 —4w
Maffachujeits Di/lriil•
By Order of the Honorable John LowElv,
Efquirr, Jadge of the Diftri& Court for
the MafTachufetts Diftriil,
|( XTOTICE is hereby given to all persons 1
IN concerned," That a Libel is filed in said
Court by Christian O Grutzmicher, late Com- 1
mander of the (hip Corona, of ind from Ham- '
burgh, and Henry Andrew Heifls as agents for
the owners of said Ship, against sundry goods, J
wares and merchandize, saved from said Ihip
Corona, wrecked on Cape Cod within said Dif
tri<sl on the 16th March last—which goods,
wares aed merchandize, were consigned to di«
vers persons in Philadelphia, in the Diftritf of
Pennsylvania, and elsewhere—and that said Li
bel is filed as aforefaid,for thefreight said to be
due to the Libellants on said goods, wares a?ul
merchandize, and for necefiary expences paid
by them which have arisen upon the fame—
And that trial will be had upon the aforelaid
Libel at a "Diftrift Court to be holden at the
Court-House in Boston, on Monday the eigh
teenth day of June next, at 11 o'clock, A. M.
SAMUEL BRADFORD,
" Marjhal of Maffacbufetts•"
Dated at Boston, April ) tawtf
2 3d, 179 f- >
Bank of the United States,
May ISt b, 1798.
NOTICE is hereby given, that previous to
the renewal of Certificates for Shares of
this Bank, which may be loft or destroyed, it
will be required in future, that a particular de
scription of the original certificates should be ad
vertised twice a week for three months in the
Newspaper called " The Gazette of the United
" States & Philadelphia Daily Adyertifer
informing of the loss or deftru6Uon, and the in
tention of the party to apply for a renewal.
In fix calendar months after the expiration of
the advertising as above, the New Certificates
will be iflVied upon the claimants producing
proof of their having been advertised as requir
ed, together with the testimony of the loss or
deftrH&ion, and giving the usual security to in
demnify the Bank against any injury which may
arise from the renewal.
By Order of the Directors,
G, SIMPSON, Cofhier.
may 15. ia-v6w
Military Academy.
r Public are most refpeflfully informed,
A that a Military Academy is opened in the
Northern Liberties in the house formerly belong
ing to John Masters, esq. between the German-
Town and Frankfort roads, North Second
ftl-eet continued
Br JOHN BARBER,
Late of the 60th British regiment of Foot and
afiiftant Engineer to the Army a&ing in the
Weft-Indies.
Where gentlemen will be taught manual
Exercise and made completely acquainted with
all the duties of officers, non-commissioned of
, ficers and private soldiers in camp* gkrrifon and
j Quarters ; the forms of regimep.tal and field re
| turns, detachments, rosters &c. &c aff>> the
art of drawing plans, seAsons and geometrical
elcVatlbns, the elements of tactics, guanery and
ftirtificatioif.—A fubfeription lift is left'at the
bar of the where the terms and
the outlines of the prcpofed regulations may be
ften. The situation is extremely-weli adapted
tp the undertaking and eight acres of grouml'are
' set apart for the^purpofe.
) N. B. Gientlemen from the Country boarded
in the house if required.
may iry. <ftWa&Wim
. Cj" IF Charles William Klemeke,
Formerly of London, awd'who left England for
some patt of the United States of America, in
the year 1796, be living, and will apply person
ally ot by letter, to Mr. John Carrefe, in Balti
; more, or to Meflrs. Isaac Hazlehurft and Son,
, in Philadelphia, he may hear of fomething-great
ly to his advantage. Any information refpeft
:, ing the said Mr. Charles William Klemeke,
, j would be thankfully received.
. i may tq
i'o be Sold, in Burlington,
Immediately oppofit# the wharf on the river De?
laware,
A Large new two story brick House, and Lot
sixty ieet in front and one hundred deep—
I ; The House consists of two large parlours, one 17
by 21, the other 19 by 21, an entry in the mid
dle, three large bed chambers and one small one
well finifhed garrets, a large kitchen, pantry, store
room, &c. with good cellars, good water and gar
den, all new, well finifhed and in perfe# order.
Immediatce (•jffeflion will be given. Enquire of
t Edward Bonfall & Co. or of Francis Durdin, Bur
, lington, who will inform the price and shew the
premises.
may 24 3taaw
Salisbury Eltate.
THE Subscriber, proposing to contrad his busi
ness, offers this E(late for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
l Mill, with two pair of stones ; also a good Forge, all
in perfeft repair, as are all the Water Works connett
ed with tbefe various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built for the purpose of calling Cannon
for this Slate.—There are about two thousand acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood, theother
very fine arable Land, prbducing the best Hay and
Pallure. The Cannon lately mannfadlsred there,
fully proves the excellency of tbe metal, which is
(uperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one of sixty-nine guns
lately made, although fopie of the 34 were bored
into 32 pounders, have failed on proving. The fitu
-1 ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufa&ure, and a place of arms lying in the state
of Conneflicut, and only 30 miles from several land »
ings on the Hudson's river, an i having every advan- I
tage that can result from a plenty of water issuing
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all the Hock and utensils, and havt pofTeflion
on or before the firft of June next, and preparation
may be madein the meantime for goinginto Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every pait will be delivered
9 in good order, with some coal, Ore, Sic. Bcc. For
terms, apply to Mr. jofeph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, Esq. one of the Reprefentawves
in Congress for this State ; Mr, David Waterman, on
the premises, or totheproptietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee. t. 3awtf
FOk sale,
- ""PHE whole or on« half of a PLANTATION
1 on the river Delaware, between Burlington
j and Bordcnton (two miles from the latter), con
s taining about 4CO acres ; 60 of which are bottom
3 meadow, .and 100 wood land ; there are 30 acres
- of red clover to cut this year (exclnfive of mea
-4 dosv) but will exceed 50 the next ; and any quan
; tity of manure may be had for the upland from the
1 meacow without injury.
# An orchard of grafted fruit yielding between 60
t and 70 hogflieads of excellent cider ; a dwelling
j house with a barn, flable, and other ne
; ccffary buil ings go with one part in cafe of a di
t vision j on the other are no improvements, but has
1 one of the most elegant situations for a house to be
i seen on the river. The land is of good quality,
• suitable for grazing or agriculture, and convenient
; to market by land or water. For terms apply to
the owner on the premises.
' Thomas St- Jbhn.
May $ I eodtf
Treasury Department,
March 19,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
r T~" , H ATpropoUls will be received at the Office of
JL the Secretary of the Tieafiuy until the expi
ration of the i?th day of July next enfuiijg. tor
the supply of all rations # which may be re quired
for theufe of the United States, fromthe firli day of
O&ober 1798, to the thirtieth day of September
both days inclusive, at the places and within I
the diftri& hereafter mentioned, viz. At Ofwego ;
at Niagara ; at Prefque lfle ; at MichilinvicUinac ;
at Fort Franklin ;at Pittlburgh ;st JLe Beuf; at
Cincinnati ; at Greenville ; at Picque Town and
Lcramie's Store ; at Fort Wayne; at Fort Defi
ance ; at any place below Fort Defiance on the Mi
ami River to Lake Erie ; at Fort Knox and Oua
tanon on t|j£ River Wabaft * at Maffac; at any
place or places on theeaft fide of the River Miflif
fippi above the mouth of the River Ohio, and up
on the Ulir.ois River ; at any place or places on the
east fide of the Mifliflippi River below the mouth
of the River Ohio to the southern boundary of the
State of Kentucky, and within the said Stat« ; at
Kuoxvillc, Teliico Block House, and at all other
L'ofts in tfce State of Tcnnellee,; at aRy place or
places 011 theeaft fide of the River MiflifTippi, be
low the southern boundary of the State of l ennef
fee, to the fouther:i boundary of the UnitcdStates.
If supplies Ihall be required for any pofls or
places not mentioned in this notice,all fuchlupplies
ihall be furniflied at prices proportioned to those to
the posts before recited, a«may be agreed on be
tween the United States and the contratfor.
The rations to be supplied to confik of th" fol
lowing article*, viz.
One pound of bread or flour
One pound of beef or twelve ounces of pork
or bf.con
Half a jill of rum, brandy or whif-~>
ky, one quart of Sat, two quarts (
of vinegar, two pound, of soap, f ration>
one pound of candles J
The rationsare to be furnilhed in such quantities,
as that there (ball at all times during the said term,
be fufficient for the confufnption of the troops at
Michilimackinac, Detroit, Niagara, and Ofwego,
for the term of fix mor.ths in advance, and at each
of the other posts, for the term of at lead three
months i» advance, in good and wholesome provi
fiona, if the fame {hall be required. It is t#be un
derstood, that the contractor is to be at the ex
p?nce and risk of issuing the supplies to the troops
at each post, and that all lo£fes sustained by the de
predations of an enemy, or by means ,of the
troop* of the United States, shall be paid for at
the price of the articles captured or dcilroyed, on
the depositions of two orir.orc persons of credita
ble charadters, and the certificate of a commiflion
eJ officer, ascertaining the circutwftances of the
lofsand the amount of the ■articles for which com
pensation shall be claimed.
The priviledge is reserved to tlie United States
of requiring that none of the supplies which may
be furr.ifhed under thepropofed contraA, Shall be
issued, until the supplies which have or may be
furnilhed under the contra<ft now in force have
been confuined.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury*
mirch 17. lawtisjy
Military Colours,
PAINTED ON SlLK—hi
George Rutter Co.
Portrait and Ornamental Painters,
IN a flile which will endure the hardftups o£ the j
weather without injury, and wh ; ch for neatness j
and exa<ftitudc of colouring cannot be surpassed in j
this city.
FLAGS and DRUMS
Furnilhed with dispatch, en the most moderate
terms.
Portraits, Ornamental Paintings, Signs,
fire-buckets, &c. accomplished in that superb stile
of* modern elegance, which, Mr. Rutter pledges
liimfelf from 20 years experience iu this city will
meet the entire approbation of hJj friends arid tire
public.
In the Military Line,
A variety of specimen's may be seen at their
Painting Room, Norrisfs Court, hack of the Naw
Library.
may 3 d6w
NOTICE.
HAVING observed an advertifemcnt of C.
Gullagcr, in terms derogatory of our pro
feffional abilities, we have to requell the public
not to be imposed upon by foreign artiftt ; but to
decide upon the naei its of each by a comparison ol
the work executed by both, as it is a mode almost
universally adopted by them to invalidate the ta
lents «f eftabliihed artists, with a view of deceiv
ing the public, and engrofling that business which
their profeflional knowledge in no wife entitles
them to. Well knowing that public opinion must
govern, we flatter ourselves that the work execut
ed by us will convince them of our great superio
rity over Mr. Gullager in every branch of por
trait and ornamental painting, and (hew thenecef
fity of judging for themselves.
N. B. In future no attention will be paid to
felf-flattering v.dvertifements of Mr G.
Any person wilhing a supply of FLAGS and
DRUMS will please apply to Geo. Rutter and
Co. Norris' Court, or Hesjxy Frailet, Germae
town. §6w may^.
Military Colours.
At C. GULLAGER's
Portrait and Ornamental Painting Rooms,
No. 50, South Fourth, next to Chefaut flreet,
oppotite the Friends' Meeting.
PAINTING on Gtka for Military and other or
namental purposes (in a manner peculiar to
himfelf) durable, not to be injured by the weather,
which for elegance of defigo, truth and beaucy of
colouring, neatness and masterly execution, has
not been equalled by George Rutter and Co.
FLAGS and DRUMS
Furnilhed with all pofltble dispatch, on the most
reafonahle terms.
Ornamental Painting, Signs, Fire Buck
ets, Cornices, &c. &c. executed in stile (not that
superb stile of modern elegance peculiar to G.R.)
but in a workman like manner, peculiar to an ar
tist master of hi« profeflion.
Mr. Gullager, from a number of year's expe
, rience in Europe and this country, flatters himfelf
that profeffional talents, pundluality, and reason
able demands, will meet the entire approbation of
those gentlemen who will please to cull at his Paint r
ng Rooms. §6w may 5.
| NOTICE.
P. S. Gentlemen in town and
1 country, wishing for a supply of Colours and
' Drums, painted in a maflerly manner, will no
doubt feel themselves obliged for the kind can'ion
given by George Rutter and Co. not to trust felf
flattering advertisements, but examine the work
executed by both parties One view will satis
' fy them where the superiority lies, —save thefpoil
ing of good fiiks by George Rutter's pencil—and
discover the requisites for the talents
'of KenryFrailey, at Gcrmantown. may 10.
William Meredith,
Attorney at Law.
HAS Removed to No. 117 Chefnut-ftreet,
where Titlesio R;al estates are examined
and Briefs thereof and Conveyances of eveiy
kind, prepared. may a 3awj\v
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
MARCH 1, 179?.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
IN purfusncc of the A(2 o£ Cengrefs pafied on the sixth day of July one thousand Eeven hundred and
ninety fi'ven, eViitled " An Aft laying dutiesj>n Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", and the
Aft palled on the fifti enth day oi Dccimher, one thousand seven hundred and nmety-fev«n, entitled
"An to postpone for a limited time the commencement of the duties imposed by the \£l enti
tled "An AJI laying Duties on Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper"i that from and alter the
firft day of July entiling, the ftveral Stamped Duties hereafter enumerated, will be levied and collec
ted throughout the United Staus.
For every (kin or pieceof Vellum or Parchment, or fhect or piece of Paper, upon which shall be
written or printed any or either of the intlruments »r. writingsfollowing—to wit:
Dls Cts. | Mis.
Any Certificate of Naturalization, .... - j
Any Licence to practice,or Certificate of the admilTion,enrolment or registry of
anvCouivfeller, Solicitor, Attorney, Advocate or Prodlor, in any Court of the
United States, - •* - 10
Provided, that a Certificate in any one of the Courts of the United States
for one of the said Offioei, (lull so far is relates tn the payment of the
duty afere aid, be a futficient adtnilnon in all the Courts of the United
States, for eich and every of the said offices.
Any Grant or Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United States
(except for lands granied for military services) - - 4
Any exemplification or certified copy of any such or letters patent, (ex
cept for land, granted for mi.itary services) ... a
Any Charter-Party, Botti mry, or Refpondentia Bond, - - I
Anv Receipt or difuharge for or on accountof anyLegacyleftby any Will or e
ther te/iamentary inllniment,or for any lhafce or part ofl perfor.al eltete di
vided by force 0! any flatute of dillributi.ns, other than to the Wife, Chil
dren or Grand Children of the person deccafed,the amount whereof shall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and fnall not exceed the value of One Hun
dred Dollars, - - »5
When the amount thereof shall exceed the value of One Hundred Dollars and
shall not exceed five hundrad dollars, ...
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollars, the additional futn of I
Any Policy of Insurance or inflrament in nature thereof, on any (hip, vessel or
goods insured from one dillriil to another in the United States, 15
From the United States to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which
Insurance is made (hall not exceed five hundred dollars, - 15
When the fum'infured (hall exceed five hundred Jolla-rs, - f
Ary Exsmplification, of what nature soever, that (hall pass the seal of any
Court, other than such as it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
furnifh for the ufeefthe United States or fonie particular (late, -
Any Bond, bill Tingle or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, promilTory
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrafl, made to or with the United States or any (late, or for their
uferefpeflively, ....
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - , 0
Ifaboveone hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollars,
If above five himdred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, , J0
And if above one thousand doll.irs, - - -
Provided, that if any bondsor notes Ihall be payable at or withm sixty day 6,
such bonds or notes Ihall be fubjeft to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforefaid—viz. - -
If above twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dolla-rs, - 4
If aboveont hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred dollat s, . I 0
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars, J0
If above one thousand dollars, ....
Any Notes issued by thebanks now efUbliftied, or that may hereafter be eftab
lilhed within the United States, other than the notes.of such of the said Banks
as (hall agree 11 an amiual competition, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends made by. such Banks, to their Stockholders.reipedlively, according to
the following scale. -
On all notes not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - - 6
On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, j 0
Cn all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - - ... j
On all notes above five hundred dollars, , - j
Any Protest or other Notarial adl, \ . aj ,
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penftoa, or to obtain or,fell War.
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for mi s,ary services
performed in the late war, - "
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Customs or duties, for .less than
five hundred dollars, - - - I
For five hundred dollars and not exceeding two thoufand)dollars, %,
For more than two thousand dollars, ... ,
Any note; or bill of lading for goods or merchandize.to be exported,
H' from one diftriA to another difiriil of the United States, not being in tht
fame State, ... - IO
If from the United' States to any foreign port or place, - - 35
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effsfls, made in any
cafe required by law, (except in cases of goods and chattels diftr.ained for
rem or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal process by.any officer,) . 0
Any Certificate of a Share in any Insurance Company, »f a (hare in the Bank of
the United States, or of any State or other Bank,
T above twenty, dollars and cot exceeding one hundred dollars, - f 0
If above one hundred dollars, - • aj
If under twenty dollars, at the rate of ten ren/jforone hundred dollars.
11.
The dutiesaforelaid will be.colle.sled and received by the Superiors, InfpecScrs aud other Officer*
of Infpeftion, is the several DiilriiU, Surveys and Uivifiens of the United states, and by such other
pcrfonsas (hall from co time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Diftrjfts for
that purpose.
111.
The Supervisors of the several Diflriils will, prior to tl e firft day of July ensuing, and as soon se
may be praaicafcle, markorftamp, without fee 01 reward, any quantities or parcels of Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of thefaid duties ; Or
(lamped vellum, parchment and paper n.ay at ihe option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rates prescribed by law, by applimion to any Superviior, Officer of InfpcSisn,
or ether person appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisors of Diflrids
GIVEN under my Hauci, at Philadelphia
the Jay and year ibwemtntimcd.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secretary of the Treasury.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
March 30//;. 1798.
Public Notice is hereby given.,
THAT byanadl of Congrcfs pafled on the
19th di 1 of March, 1798, th,e following
alterations and amendments have b«n made to
the a<ft passed on the 6th day of July 1797, en
titled " An ail laying duties on damped vcl
(• lum, parchment and paper."
The (lamp duties on debentures or oertifi
catei for the drawback of Cufloms or duties on
Imports are repealed.
Adifcount at the rate of seven and one half
per Centum, will be allowed by the Supervisors
or Infpeilors refpedlively, to any persons other
than Officers of the Revenue, who may pur
chase atone timeor procureto be ftamp;d,any
quantities of Vellum, Parchment or Paper, upon
which the duties (hall amount to Ten Dol
lars or upwards.
111.
Stamped Paper, will be provided, and fold at
the rates prefcribedby law, without any addi
tional charge or expense on account »f the
price of Paper ; but for (lamped Parchment or
Vellum, an additional price will be demanded
at the rate of Fifty Cents for each (kin of Parch
ment, or Two Hundred Cents for each (kin of
Vellum of medium fine, which may be furniO
eil at the expense of the United States and pro
portionally for anylefTer quantity-
Given under my hand, at Philadelphia, the
day and yeir abovemcntio"ed.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Trrnfury.
To be Let,
(And pofleflion given on the ift of May)
A genteel three story brick House,
II feetfront,and 40 l'cet deep, with back buildings
and (tables,at present inthetcnure of Major Jack
som. Enquire at 187 South Third ftrect.
April 2. §
The Co-partner(hip of the Subscribers,
TRADING UNDER THE FIRM OF
Joseph Davidson Isf Co.
IS this day diflolved by mutual consent, all those
having claims againtl said firm, are desired to
render their accounts, and those indebted to make
payment to Joseph Davidfon, who is duly autho
rised tofettle tie affairs of the concern.
JOSEPH J. MILLER.
JOSEPH DAVIDSON.
N. B. ThcStorcs at the corner ef Market and
Fourth Streets are now to be let.—Enquire oi Jo
seph Davidlon.
, april ,6 wJtslin
Secretary of the Treasury.
TO BE bOLD,
40,939 acres of Land.
IN Greene Lounty, Commonwealth of Pennsyl
vania, on the waters of Fish and Wheeling
Creeks and Ten Mile Ran.
These l ands are fertile and well timbered, and
abound in Coal ; they were fold ten years ago for
five (hillings per arre ; patented early in 1787, ex
cept 370 c acres, which were patented in \
part of them were surveyed in 178.?. The traA
is between the Ohio and Monongthela, very con
venient tc water carriage, about 19 miles from
the town of Walhington, from 14 to 16 from the
village of Greenelburgh and Wheeling.
On payment of one fourth of thepurchafe mo
ney, a reafonaule credit will be given for the refi
.due. Enquire of the Printer,
april 21. §
TO BE SOLD,
26,780 acres of Land,
IN the State of New York, between th? northern
bounds of Pennsylvania and the Sufquehanna
now, or late in the townlhips of Hamdcn and
Warren and county of Warren.
These Lands, from th. ir quality and fituaiion,
are a very desirable ©bjecft for any man who mean*
to invest his money to advantage.
On payment of one third of the purchase mo
ney, a rcafonable credit will Ie given for the rcfi
due. Enquire of the Printer,
april IT. §
Country Residence.
A FAMILY who live Six Mile* from the City v
wish to receive two or three tceatc-el boatd
ers. The Houfc is handsomely lurnifhed; the
Gardens, Meadows and Lawn are beautifully laid
out, and well flocked with the cheiceft Fruit.
There arefeveral Mistical tnftrumcnt*, amopgft
which is a moil excellent patent Piano Forte. The
Family have a handforre Coach, which may beat
the for vice of the whole*
The Coach House and Stables are most excellent
' —the Water good—and the Air unequalled in the
environs of the Town.
For particulars enquire at the office of this Ga
zette. dtf may 16.
ADVERTISEMENT.
WHERE AS the fubferitier and his wife Jane
Hodgkirfon, haveby mutual consent agreed
to liva fcparate =nd apart from each other from
bed and board, these are therefore to forewarn ail
persons fronrtrufting ber on my account, as by
contrail (lie is to fupportherfelf &r the future, and
I am determined not to pay any debt of her ,con
tra&ing- SAMUEL HODGKINSQN.
may i$- *jtiaw