of titt and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
By Jo&n Fenno, N° iin Cbefmit Street.
NUMBE* 1670 ] PHILADELPHIA: TUESDAY EVENING, JAMJARY 16, 1798. # [VOLUME XUIT"
* * —' — 1 -
4
Cuftora-Houfe Sales.
Philadelphia, 'January 13, 1798. 1
ON v.-intay, Ihe uglh of January, >798, at 11
o'clock; will be (old by public at the
Cudoni-Hoult, in pursuance of the law, in that |cafe
made and provided, the folio..ing articles of mer
chandize, having been stored more than nine months
and not claimed by the ovreers orconfignee, thereof; .
which articles may be.viewed during the (pace of '
three days antecedent to the dry of fate, between the
hours of nine and two o'clock..
ICP Two cases, containing Woollen Hats v '
MpC One cafj, containing Books and Pamphl
R P Three casks, conuiding Girth Web '
(DU) One cifk, containing Spades and Shovels
W Four cajk», containing Garden Seeds, Peas
P and Beans
IS One keg of Red lead|
O WC One crate of Earthen Ware
BTM Two do. do. 1
WL One do. and two casts containing Images and
o. naoif nts for building '
[No mark] T wo Hampers of Bottled Porter 1
P Eight Hampers of Empty Bottles
WB One c<|kof Bottled Porter J
Tho's Stepbeu{ One bundle, containing pieces of
Mulic
Mr.Scott. One box'containing old Pamphlet*
f JWr' Au'oley Oneboxof Pamphlets
W A Three pipes Madeira Mr ine
One box of -Pewiit Lamps {
B One box containing Brutbes
G. Bolland. One calk containing afrhteie and some '
£fc»«neat : .ft ■; <■"*'- SI- "• t
yR Oneer#eof Earthen Ware I
! R. 14. One crate of Earthen Ware. ;
Jan, 13 W'29
THE SUBSCRIBER :
INTENDING to leave this country in the course
of the summer for Europe (if he compleat, the
settlement of hi* affairs by that time; and where it
i' probable he may reside alt a merchant—rrquefts
r every man who has any demands against him to -
come forward therewith, in order that a final set- A
clement may take ptaee C
GEORGE MEADE. "
"\ Philadelphia, Jan. 13,1798.
TO BE SOLD, tl
On FRIDAY, the 30th of March next, at his
dwelling houfa in Chefnut-ftreet, four daors a- e ;
hove Tenth-street,
„ Ail his houfhold and kitchen
Furniture &c. &c. and. which may be view
ed every day days before the sale, from a l
# ten o'clock in the morning till one o'clock, and 11
from three o'clock in the a'ternoon till night.
TO BE SOLD BY PRIVATE SALE, r
And if not fold by Saturday, 47th January, then -
to be set up, and positively fold, at PUBLIC
VENDUE, at the Merchants' Coffee-houfe, at
6 o'clock in the evening,
The Subscriber's House, No. 78,
4 in Walnut-street, two doors below Fourth.Greet;
is now occupied by Dr. Stevens for one year from
4th November lad, at the rent of 4001. per annum;
it was renffd at the time of the late fever, or it
Turould have brought, I think, more. The two
StabW-wi W aldiirltreef wilTTe set up separately
or together ; the largest one no# rents for .551. the
smallest for 451. per arfhum, and they are arched
and laid in mortar and two inch plank, and the (
cellar will hold about 100 pipes of wine, which I
was once offered 601. per annum for. A large Store
in Fourth-street, 33 feet front by 50 feet deep, a f
' food yard and necessary belonging to it; on this
(tore is a ground rent of 11 dolt. 7 J cents per ann. A
this btilding is rented to the public for eighteen \
months at 250!. per annum, and the rent was paid tu
down ; it might have been rented at the fame price
*for three years, but I declined it least it might hurt
the sale. A lot in Fourth flreet, lo feet front by ce
•jo feettleep, en which is a ground rent of 6 dol Fi
lars per annum; it has the privilege of a three feet
alley adjoining the lot.
Should it make any difference to the purchafcr,
Mr. Mrade will endeavor to prevail on Dr. Ste-
vens to gire possession foontr, if he can with con- £
Tcniccce.
PAYMENTS.
Approved notes and indorfers at 6, 9, 11 and 18 T
months; the deed tb be lodged with Wm. Tilgh- '
man, Esq. till-the notes are paid : On the house,
| Edward Stiles, Efij has a mortgage for l6jol. On ar '
the stables, Mr. Samuel Williams for. 3001. These
funis may lay as long as the purchaferpleafes,pay- P'
ing the interest regularly. . ,n |
For further particulars, apply to William Tilgh
man, Esq. or to the fubferiber, CKSfnut, four t '.°
doors above Tenth-.Rreet , nc
GEORGE MEADE. Ul
FOR SALE—tbs following fel
Traits and Lots of Land,
Of an excellent quality.
No. 1. Four hundred and thirty acres of excel
lent Land, on tTTe water* oi Back creek, Frcdcr- _
ick county, Virginia, on the great road leading so
branch, about ten miles from Winchester ; '
one hundredgicres of which is rich bottom ; a fine
stream running through it, with fevcral springs ;
the trees in the bottom are chiefly sugar maple, y>
black walnut, hicory and locust; there is a log K
dwelling and out houses, some mearlow made, and m,
about forty acres of upland cleared; on this trail
•there is a good mill feat, whqre an under-lhot mill
might be erc&ed.
No. a. Two hundred and fifty acres, about two Sc j
miles from Wood (lock; part of this traift is in j, e
■cultivation, is fine'y timbered, and a good quinti- jj c
ty of meadow may be made. val
No. 3. Two thousand five hundred acres on the on
waters of Hewts' river, Harrifon county, state of
VVir-einia.
No. 1. Four hundred acras, in Bald eagle town- irr
'lhip, Northumberland county, state of Pennfylva- the
llia ' anc
No. 5. An half acre lot in the town of Rich- att(
nioad, Virginia. j )ol
ALSO, AT PRIVATE SALE, ed .
The following VaQs of Land. c "i
60,oooacresof land in Walhingtonxcunty "> State of ——
J 74,c00 do. Montgomery J Georgia #
do- Orangebugh diftri<a ") State of
I4»j»86 do. Charleston j So.Car. ,
40,000 do. pn the Alleghany river > State of jA
54,000 do. Weftmoreland county J Peon.
41,900 do. Wythe, Walbington, ) Stjte »f
and Grayfon counties J Virginia
to.ooo do. jn Bedford county. 'l'
All which he will fell «n the mod reasonable
terms, and hut very little money will be required,
the remainder may lay upon credit for I, a, 3, or
4 y e »"i security being had upon the lands. f, »'
January r.x. dttyth
Fan SALE, J
Several fonts of 1 ypes—half worn. oul
Including Long Primer, about 4QO weight, in '^ Ul
jQod condition, and would snfwer the purpose of ten!
a country, printer as well as new.
Enquire of the Printer. RO v. 30. p,
i
Public Sale of Real Eftatcs.
!. On THURSDAY Evening, the 15th of
t 1« February next, will be exposed to Public Slle,
t the at the Merchant*' Coffe«-h»ufc is Seeond-ftreet,,
jcafe at 6 o'clock in the evening, the following
ESTATES.
No. I. A two (lory brick House, wish 1 two .
eQ f story frame Bnilditgs, on a lot to feet front and
! ,h c ioc fe«t deep ; also, a vacant Lot of 40 feet fqi*ar«,
with the privilege of an alley to go thereto. This
interest has lately been let for 100 dollars per an
blJt num, and is fitaated ("in Christian-street, between
it , Front and Second-streets, the second house from
Mr. Caleb Alh's.
:li No, 2. A three story brick House, situate at
the north east corner of Chefnut flreets, being 14
ca ' feet on Second-flreet, and to Uet oa Chefuut
ftrert, now in the tenure of Mr. Morange, at the
yearly rent of 400 dollars, ;:nd is deemed one of
the best flands for the fale'of dry goods in this city.
Jn( j No. 3. A handsome wctl finiflied three story
brick House, 10 feet front and ia» feet deep, situ
ate in Fifth-ftreet, between Market and Arch;
streets, No. 40. This hoaie is built and fintlhed
in the modern style, is complete repair, with
s of cellars under the Thei e is a ciflrrn
of rain water in the the hpufe is at pre
fect let for'6oo dollirs per annum with the taxes.
No. 4. A three story brick House, situate in
Plumb-street, between Second and Third-street,
being 20 feet front and 13* feet deep, at pref:ct
occupied by Robert Kenny.
No. 5. A three story frick House, on the bank
»me fide of Front-flreet, No. 171 North, going thjo'
•» Watcr.ftreet, where it is 6ve story. It is
feet fror.t and 4? fefl deep, i3"colnpiete repair,
and is rented for 600 dollars per annum.
9 The conditions of Sale are, one quarter calh,
on« quarter in 6 moaths, one quarter in 9'monihs,
and one quarter in 12 months. •
arse Philadelphia, Jan. 12,1798. 3awtljF
To be fold, 1
efts A N ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain-
Ito fl ing 6 acre» and 40 p:rches, with a neat two
set- story brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, kc. on the Irish trail lane, in the
townlhip of Moyamenfing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
■ The improvements upon thij place, for taste and |
' elcgapce, fland unrivalled. >
December 1. - dtf c
J!! , ; If
" w _ The Subscriber to make i
om application for the renewal of a Certificate of a Share
n( j in the Bank of the United States, ftandingin the name
of A. B. N0.5004, dated July 11, 1797, the fame
having been loft. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. 1. ; ,6w a
ROSS £sf SIMSON, v "
at HAVE FOR SALE.,
0 A few bales Baftas, Goflas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
et; Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
em Jamaica,
m; St. Vincents, ( RUM.
rit and Bengal j
wo joocifks RICE, and
:ly A parcel of ship building RED CEDAR. 0
OA. j7. {
le d - ■ y -
h t e Chocolate and Mustard, -
II '
, rc . •( a superior quality manufadured, t
, a /LINGER and Pepper, ground ; shelled or
bis pearl Barley; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
in. A' e Cyder ; Tauston and Burton Ale ; I
en London Porter j red, Port and Lisbon Wine, J
lid fuitahle for exportation or heme confumptioft.
ice The highest price given for Mustard-Seed.
itt Also forfait, A quantity of Backing ind J?
by common Baizes, a variety of colors; a bale of n
01 Fullians, Shawls, &c, for sale by
'« JOHN HA WORTHS w
No. 98, south Front-street.
»w. i 7. m.&th.t.xj.
n - Canal Lottery—No. 11.
/ —•
18 TTriLL commence drawing Monday, thezoth
h- »V inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at -
fe, Stven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
) n and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-ftreet—
■Su Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten -
y. Dollar,, where check, books are kept lor register
ing and examining in these, the City, of Walhing
h. ton, No. 11. and JJaterfon Lotteries, and informa-
Jr tion where tickets may be had in most of the Lotte- v
ries authorifad by law in any of the States of the f
Union. re;
N. B. The business of a Broker, in buying ind V
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities, hu
difcounthg Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of gr
Lands, Houses, &c. &c. will be duly attended to, w
ty Wm. BLACKBURN. f aj
november 15.
MUSIC.
" .7. L. LENZ,
1 * Teacher 01 Vocal and instrumental Music,
'§ -tv Gentlemen, from whom he received a very
liberal encouragement since his residence in this ci
j ty, and refpeSfully informs his friends and the pub- J
lie generally, that, in canfequence of the raqueft $1
of some of his friends, he has opened a Musical <Ji
Schaol at his houfa in Spruce Street No 174, where
'f 1 he will teach on the Piano forte, Violin &c. &c.— ■
He deems it unnecessary to enlarg* upon the ad
vantages the learner will derive from, an inftijuti
on of thu-kind; he will only fay, that attention .
and zeal are much excited in an affsmbly, where B
numlftr«.a*e inpurfuit of the fame obje6t. His .
' arrangement is such, that an interference of the
the different sexes will he avoided. Those Ladies
and Gentlemen who cannot make it convenient to
1 attend at his school, he will wait upon at their
houses Applications will be thankfully receiv- 1
ed at hi* houft, where his terms and further parti- H5
culars tnay be known. A,
Dec. 7. *1 weod 58
» ~ NO TIC E. p a s
.. ALL persons concerned are hereby notified, t
Xx that the fiibfcriber intends to apply for a re- I
newal ot the undermentioned Uft certificates of *1
' Stock in the Bank of the United States—He for
* warded them under cover of a letter addressed to fl
_ John Anfley.of Loi>don,by the fiiip Bacchus,capt.
" George, which left this port in June last for Lon
' (Jon. ®ut that (hip having been captured on her
passage and fentto France, the above letter and m
elofures have failedin their deftinatiou.
Three certificates, viz.
Nos. 26325, 26326, 26327, each for
four (hares, dated January ift,- i?97f and
iflued in the name of Henry Grace, of Tot
tenham Highcrofs, Grsat Britain..
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
y noit'mher S. 2avf6w D
Nicklin Ss* Griffith,
0 f At their' Store on Walnut Street Wharf—-
il e> Hat £ ro» six*,
» et)i 5? hhii. of Jamaica Hum
Madeira Wine in ppei »n.! hhds.
Tenenffe in pipes
wo ~rt in hfids.
»nd 1 Imperial Tei in >r* and ftghtf.t'oi eliefts
Jrßi Sail Canvass, No. 1, to 3
his Dimkiss, Giffghams, and Moflirtets, irfpacka
an- ? cs fuiisble fnr the Weft IniJia market
een Nails aflorted »
om Black, quart bottles . #
Queens ware in hhds. and*ratcs
at Yellow «chre drjr in casts •
n x * And at New-York, onboard the
tiie ffi'P Diana, from Liveipool,expelled round
e f _^ as navigation IS open,
i t y Rine Liverpool Salt
ory
tu- Spanifli Brown
e!i- Venetian Red
led Purple Browo PATMTQ
ith Patent white PAINTS
rrn White lead
re- Red lead
9 - Colcothar vitriol
; ' 3 160 bundles Sheathing paper
" ct > Seaming tw : ne
"k ShipDIAMA,
j o ' For Sale 6r Charter.
iir, _ also,
lb, Brig Amazon.
F K- B. 'I he late firm of PliilipNicklin & Co.
is now changed. to
, i NICKLIN & GRIFFITH.
in- January 1. tudtf
pit For Savannah,
TO SAIL THE FIRST VPINING,
j (ailing fl^ip
r U SWIFT PACKET,
Patrick Gribbes, Malier,
"d NOW lying the firft wharf below
r ' arkot Street—haß handfonie ac
commodations for passengers—For freight or pas
— . sage apply to the Matter on board, or to
i N. J. Frazer,
"e * No. 95, Sooth Front Street.
ne Who have on hand, and for Sale, '
[. Prime Rice, in whsle and half tierces, Georgia |
iw and Carolina Indigo, Molasses in hhds, Teneriffe
wine, Sic. See 1
December 47 3tawtf.
d For Charleston,
» THE SHIP
k Om&l VENUS,
j Lying ml tbcivbarj of Mejfrs'Ptrtth
f QH£ will take Flight on very
1 oSSSsTfefc u low terms, and fail the firft
opening.——Apply to the mafteron board, er te
Jos. Anthony £sf Co.
Petember »g j
' For Amsterdam,
r : FA7ME R, t
•' J OHK M'Cclx.om, Master ;
<l' WILL fail ifr a few days, the
j,irrof her cargo being
, ready. For freight ef fifty tons of Coffee, or pas- '
C sage, apply to the master on board, at Walnut
ftreet wharf, or to a
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who i> Landing, out of the fa id Ship, from Bour-
'• dean*, and For S-jc, ' 0
Claret "in hhds. I
. White Wiiie in quarter cades a
m Claret in cases, of a fupertor quality C
Fontiniac, q
Sauterne, > Wines in cases n
Lunille,. 1 '* e
y Prunes in boxes a
novemher 24. * i
For Londonderry,"
THE BRICANTINI
e" S U K KT y
1 J?William Whitt»n, Master.
i "-.JASifc " / strong good vessel, about |wo
hundred tons, to fail with all convenient speed, a
f great part of her cargo engaged.—now lyiHg at
, Willing and Francis's wharf. For freight or pas
sage, apply to the captain, or d;
JOHN SKYRIN, £
Landcnbfgtrl -wharf, ;
Who wants to Charter.
A Vessel of 2bout three hundred tons.
nov »8. §
! 'For Sale or Charter, ' A
fjbl N * The Snoiu Ci
' gOTj, GOOD HOPE, l\
1 Will carry about iico barrels, and
is ready to take in a cargo. For terms
Pragers Sff Co.
No. 151, South Second-flreet.
Who have forfait#—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Lisbon, and Teneriffe wine. ar
November 7. ~ dtf.
1 For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP ll]
Sally Butler,
Captain Cris holm,
A new vessel, with excellent
aceommodations for passengers Be
Sails on the loth of December, for Freight or Iri
Passage, apply to ROSS ts" JIMSON. M,
IVbt have to difpft jf, m „
A small invoice of GLAUJtCR SALTS
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
nov ember 1%. £
gj Imported in the brig Eliza, Sh
Capt. from Bourdeaux ; p. c
Claret in Cases of a very fuperisr quality,
White Sauterne Wine in Cases, 40<
Olive Oil in baJkets of i a bottles each,
White and coloured K.id Gloves,
do. do. bilk do.
A few pipes ol Eonrdoaux Brandy,
For Sale by ,
JAMES 1 ATIMER.jun. Ala
71, South Wharves. or .
Who has also for Sale, fifi
A few qr. Caflct Old Sherry Wine. E
ec - 5- djw ov
BALL.
I —> Mr. Br rue's third Ball will be on Tjief
day theiyih January, at Oellers's hotel—
Gentlemen's Tickets at one dollar each to
be had at the hotel. Ladies' Tickets to be
had ofMr.aad Mrs. Byrne, No. 114, North
:fts Sixth Street.
The diys of Tuition for ynung ladies,
ck*- aflifted by Mrs. Byrne, ar.*«on Tuesday and
jr Saturday morning—in the afternoon of the
fame days for young gentlemen, and Thurs
day and Saturday evenings for gentlemen.
January 13. '
:he CLER KS HI P.
un( 3 A Younc} Man, who could bring indisputable
iV recommendations, is defir»Hs to be employ
ed in the capacity of copying Clerk, at a public of
fice, or with a private gentleman—He would en-
JPge on moderate terms. For further partieu
lars enquire at the office of this^Oazette.
January 12. * eotf
To Be Sold,
AGREEABLY to the last will and tcftament < (.
.William Hitsiiam, deceased, and posses
sion given immediately, a in Arch
v' street, between Third and Fourth streets, confin
ing of theheufe, No. 107, with the lot on vvliieh
it is erected, a ftabls, and other
Thehoufe is jo feet front, and contains ten good
apartments. The.lot is of the fame breadth as the.
1 house and 109 feet deep, with a well of water aqd
a very capacious walled cittern, both with pumps
in goop repair. The stable (lands on the rear of
the lot and will accommodate four horses and a car
riage. This property enjoysthe perpetual privilege
of a a6feet court and an alley, 8 feet wide.extend-
Co. ing to Chsrpr Street. Its central position and the
advantages it possesses with refpeA to free ventila
tion, renders it well worthy thp attention of any
perf.n wifhingto poffcfssu eligible property in Phi
— ladolphia,
For further particulars ertquire at No 88, Vine
Street—of
Robkrt Heysham,
r °r >• Adling Executors.
, Francis Bowis Sayrk, j
January 11 5 ,
°J_ NOTICE. r ,
iaf- p i
ALL perfqns who have any demands agaiuft j
the estate of Willam Fleewtood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are requefied to exhibit their accounts, '
ia P ro P er 'y attefied ; and thofc feho are indebted '
S? to the fame, are dcfired to malce immediate '
paymeat, to !
GEO. DOBSON, \ -- n , '
No. 2J , So. Third-street. \ Adm>n '-fi r r '
January 4. dtf l
FOR SALE, *
By JOHN MILLER, ju*. W Co.
No. 8, Chsinut-ftreet,
ith *■> One hundred and eighty bales 1
BENGAL GOODS,
ta Amongst which are,
Gurrahs Mamoodies .
Baftas Sannas ,
„ Guzzenah* Tanda Coffaes '
Guzzies Emertics 5
Blue Cloths Calicoes ,
Palampoors Romall Handkei chiefs
Amongst them are a great proportion of the
manufactures of Patna.
December 1. « 0
_ *
ng House and Lots, in Bor dent own.
if- 'I 'O BE SOLD, a handsome two story House. .
it- A with the Lot on which it is ereifted, situated
about the middle of the beautiful and healthy a
Village of Bordentown. The hisufe is forty two ct
i r . feet front, and in neat order. The lot contains P
one acre, and is one hundred feet on the main S
street, and extends whh the fame hreadth tobmk
street. Also, a large Lot, containing nearly four tl
acres, separated from the former by back street. Cc
One third only of the purchase money will be re- p
quired ujion executing a deed, and for the re
mainder, such credit will be given as the purchafi
er may chufe. This property will be fold free •-
all incumbrances, and an indifputible title giveiif N
For further particulars enquire either of Dr. £
~ William Burner, refidiug in Bordentown, near,
the premises, who will (hew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON, E
Conveyancer, no. Market-ftreet. ln
December a. 3awif
Employmerit for the Poor. R
at FLAX ron SPINNING,
f. To be given out every second, fourth, and (ixth
day morning, between the hours of 10 and II —
back of 00.51, fouth'Fifth street, ahove Spruce
ftreet. eod2w F J
Prison Manufactory.
FOR SALE,
,At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of all sizes, from jdy ta oody
Flooring Braids, Spriggs, saddle and sard Tarks
, Oakum and Shipped Logwood
Shoemakers and Sadlers Thread ' jj (
,s Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables, I'
tomb and heaiittones, hearths, chimney pieces, r
platforms, slabs, facia, window heais, fills, c . e d
All which may he had on reasonable terms, 3cr
J Shoes made and Weaving done at.said Prison at U r
a moderate price. ' ( j e;
Orders from a dillance, direfled to Daniel Tho- the
mas, agent for the prison, will be attended to. Co
December 16. mth6m_ i n s
ImportedinthefliipMANCHESTEK, " t 1
Benjamin Shewell, Master, ]
From Bourdeaux, and for sale by the fubferiber, » :
t No. ii, Walnut Street. Prp r
. Bonrdeaux Brandy „ l
• Irish market claret ta cases / Entitled to
Medocwine, in do. f Drawback. 1
Sauterne, do. v do. J
Thomas Mufgatrsyd. To
WHO HAS FOR SAbE. " 1
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter calks 1
Rota do. do. Jb*
Pimento in bags
4000 bulhels Liverpool fait. are
•Aug. 24. tut&stf- ply
TO - LET, ;. md
A front Parlour, suitable for pro
an Office ; a Room, furnilhedor unfurnilhad ; and
a large Cellar, which will fcrve either for storage
or a bottling cellar. Enquire at |no. 24, South
Fifth-ftreet.
Boarding and Loriitig to he had- Enquire as a
ove - Jan 6—* it I
War-Office of the United States,
Januarj the \Jf, 1798.
?1— frauds have been prailifei, in
ato ' ohtaininj, Warrants for i3ou»>;y Lands, due
obe ch ® OSic -" Sclii: :s of the late Continental
a rnly, by the pfocuclten of forvTediiinrum.xls.
>rt " To check in future "such inpofiticnj, it .Ims teen
thought a.ivifaable ; that all persons, having claims
lies, ■or bounty lands, whether iu their own rijht, as
and replete otative,or by virtue of any instrument
, or deed of tri.qsfer, be required to forward their
. rafpefiivr claims to the War Office, on or .before
url- the firft day of Jarruery 1799 in order that such
len. claims may be duly examined, adjaiied and deter
mined upon.
- 1 ° fubftantiatefuch claims, a rtriA observance of
the rules heretofore issued from the War Office will
able b e indispensable ; and in sedition ti) what is requiv
loy- h Y rof rules, th* certificate of the acknow~
of- of a Deed or Pevtfer of Attorney, mtif3t
en- fortli the place of residence and Occupation
i#u- of the claimant or person making such acknowledg
ment ; and when the proof of poffona] knowledge
t f is by a witnef* or witneiTes, thfir place or places of
~ refjdence mu(l be set forth in* Jike manner*
JAMES M'HfiNRYj Sec'jr of War.
Itrfc Jail. 7. d6w
rr r —— 1
for The ou*e or
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, CON
uch ' SUMPTIONS,
>— And all dfordcrs of the Breajl tin/I Lungs,
thi Church's Cough Drops.
aqd '* a unequalled by any other in the world*
nps CE»Tt*ICATK.
of " 1 hereby Wtify, that I have been cored of a
ar- m °ft levere Cough, Cold, and fevexe pain in my
ege r e* !t , hy taking only a few dofei of Dr. Cauaca's
lid- Cough Drops. CHARLES BEVANS,"
the Maker, Spruce street wharf, Philadelphia,
ila-
any . From a London Paper.
' hi - To Dr. CHURCH.
SIR,
me Having been- relently restored from the brink of
the grave, by your invaluable medicine, 1 think Tic
nay duty to make this public acknowledgment of
>rs. the fame, for the benefit of others affli&ed with a
ilniilar complaint. I had been afflidled with a mod.
' dreadful aAhma for about twenty-three years. 1
never for years got any reft, my cough was so
in the pight; and used to diftharge an
almost incredible quantity of glutinous matter
uft from my lungs ; and my breath was ib exceeding
of ihort that I could not walk acrofo my room. Pro
]c_ videntially hearing of your Cough Drops, I took
ts> } , ™ j anc *» t^r ough taking them alone, lam now,
cd bjtiled be Ood ! restored to perfetf health. My tt*
ite ca^c * 9 known to the members of the Ebene
zer Chapel, in Lincoln's-Inn-Field, of which I am
, a . ifo a member ; and any of them will gladly fa
r; tiasy any inquiry conceding the truth of what I >
Jay. I am, Sir, yonr grateful servant,
- NATHANIEL LANGWORTHY,
No. 8, Smith't-CKurt, Great Windmill-ftrect,
* Hay-market.
Witness,
N. Lancwoktht, junJJo. 40,
Pultney-ftreet, Golden-square.
CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS
Are prepared and fold (only) by the inventor and
lole proprietor, Dr. James Church, at his Medi
ctne Store, >»o.i South Thitd-ftrect, next the Mar.
*et, Philadelphia; and by appointment, at New
} St " ple ' and Co " 16 9 Pearl-street,
he Wedman, In William-street.
_ Ctweh may be consulted every day, at his
office, 158 South Front-street, Philada'phia.
- J™«r9- jaw,w
. e gr Ihe owners oftn e AJrigantine
rd M « rcur y> William Uroti, mailer, captured bv
ly a Spanish privateer and fold at Ceuta in last De
,o ceniber, may receive interesting information ref
as peeing her, by applying to the Department of
in . v -^
lk . in the fca -p° rt <>f
ir the United States will reader a service to the
it. concerned, by mfertmg the above in tbeir news
:- papers. -
• ——— J an ' 3-
si run SALE,
.- By BENJAMIN CLARK,
r a"'/ 5 ' thC C ° rn<:r ° f Chefnut and flreets,
r ; A lar g e quantity of Clocks and
tChC V alTortment of Tools,
1 Materials, coßfifting of Clock Movt
ments, eight day and thirty hour bras, pinions
and serge work; Bell,, clock and al,
- E s Hand, GlalTe,, Pumice Stone, Emery
Rotten Stone, Cat Gut; \fcench, nan(J and J'
* 9 # A s ' Plier f' cllain ». Seals, Keys, Ac. &c.
Apprentices WanteJ.
h Dovemfaer 3- f» tut f
■ Landing this day,
From on board th*fchooner Two Friend,, Dan
lei Crawley, Master,
80 hhds. and J T„_. • r> tth <r
I*2 pipes j Jamaica RUM,
FOR SALE BY
George Latimer & Son.
uouerpher 9.
u - FOR SALE7T;
Wm. Young's Book Store -
, & EPORT n<l f flr rV he Corner ftree*.
' R D T • Committee of the House of
' j T P eDta - lvcs °ft h e United States, appoint
ed to prepare and report Article, of Impeachment
t BLOUNI "' » Senafor o«,"'
United State,, impeached of high crimes and mis.
- she nTf.'' f ß p 10 P ursuance of a resolution of
the House of Representatives, authorizing the said
Committee to fit during therecefi of Congress, ani
inftrudhng them » to enquire, and, by all | lwM
' » Tk'* d ' fo * v , cr th « whole nature and extent
° f thcoffence wf ;ere o f the said William Blount
, «£ffi: and who are t! -
P t~JU:t° /tAeHOU/e
N O X*l C E.
To holders of JAMES GREENLEAFs
and EDWARD FOX'S Engagements,
TN consequence of many having been prevent- ' •
Acd, from late unavoidable circumstances from
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice/ The Trustees now inform theip, they
are ready to .flue ti,e fame to those who Say ap.
ply withm fixtydays, at N6. 8 Chefnut Street,
and those who do not, will be confidercd as re
linquilhing their claim on the Aggregate Furd
provided for their payment. 8 8 4 d
HENRY PRATT,
THOMAS W. FRANCIS
JOHN MILLER, M '
JOHN ASHLEY, •
JACOB BAKER.
December 15.WAS H INC TON LOTTERY, No II- j
List of Prixes a* d
Mift.J.^'.Dr.wSng—No». 6
A' o . Vol, A>. Ms. fio.Doh. N..D- .
194 wool
4Cg * '5 1- V, * 17189 x Sir Mor
T 3 061 V* hu
'J?* IMOi x *' x U * , BriU
$ .14564 39:5** U / n '
95 i<m 4003 s (he his
5,9 X "i 4 ! 5 6,! M»
j'}} .50M » 4-ocl fn.t.
422 x - *9*49 * 3*» k c '" umt
4Sl> 473 4,4 * H 4 /
»c» K 717 9' 1 *J 44680
tio x 75< *»** 4*J»4 We
2* "S : lr H
Sis* 3 : 2'S
'2! ,9 847 X {IX 48473 -eceffa
3 " 944 34469 4,0,5 I«i.»
B g 4 o 4 1»49 x 35«70 x 395
9 M» «O & «56 661 40ren^ r r e
1 4 2 d Day'. Drawing Nov. 11. I*
44 17018 x 33- 4 ~ £?'
144 1,1 «OK l\l (".I Wll
,Hl* •€; Ei
ao " X 05 ~?8a
)£} «•£ Vx 338 *•
"£ S
,01 .lilj X )«!!» x ,)09
S'4" 85 ««'s> Rb '"'
„;; s . >»■* ««•» ;™ r ,
8040 83* X J 6 **' "4 ' to * y
946 14C13 x »54 «•« Th
9lot no 306 *49 j
%.« «« r. * s j *
391 15081 4>B 579 (
10070 itb x 697
45 " 3 , tor*"<
«l6Jj 408 48» 393 _ .
A J I 606 x 4? 4 3 ! willt
771 67050 696 x 433 . jfa . (
78$ 16424 716 x 735
878 779 *0 770 X 75® X Ti
"ft *"« 51' » "H"
X »)<i6 J«"> ' ! j* S *
I4i 4»5 x 4 ' x Treil
374 445 53* 944 £e..
15194 496 * 661 4905* I .
84. 8«o 871 ii 3 x «<*'»
994 x 19C07 39° jo 375 . Bter|
16*07 »3» 0 ' 54 p ort ,
40, 1. 493 . '99 974
,419 x 681 811 I o ut «
496 3°»40 4»*5Q x ionil
Select Subscription Balls,
MR FRANCIS refpeflfully informs the Su- I It
fcribers to the above BALLS Art the SE- b.f fj
COND will be on Tuefclay NEXT—Thole J TI
Satifcribers who have not already received their I gene
Tickrti, arc rcqntftcd to apply to Mr. 1 ran«is, j els v*
No. 70, N«rth Eightb-flrcct. I _^A
!'"■ '<• , x - " emij
To be hxchanged tor I ; gr4l
Britijb, German, or India Goods, I Y
IN THE PACK AG B ; J f ° lcl
A trad ef valuable Land I '' t ' f r
In Lycoming; joining that of the Holland co. j lul]
aid containing 10,000 Arrei. I c hy
Inquire of the Printer. I rU p t
T«n- 'IT. 5 I Th<
livo furmjhed R.OOIM to be Let• j He,
Enquire at No. 16z, Spruce-street, between
4 th and s th Ilreets. Any person who (hall rent t,o ( n
the above, may if required, be accommodate. I
with board. ti
J» n1 ?- » deg
The Subscriber, j acc
informi those to whom he is indebted, that his j yer
books, which have been kept «pe» for their infpec- I its ]
tion since December 1796 are bala»cedto the 31ft I mei
ult. and will during the present month remain I con
open at his Counting-house in Chefnut Street for | inc
their further investigation and fcrut ny. I the
JAMES GREENLEAF. Ibe t
Philadelphia, Jan. lil 1798. I bot
W. HAYDON, I Let
Delineator of Drawing—from London, Ibu
(Where he has Oudied several years under ono of I of
th* mod eminent masters in that science)
INFORMS his friends, that he has re-commcnc- I
ed his private tuition.—Terms, as usual, Six I .
Dollars per month, for attendance three times a J
week. all kinds of Ornamental Paint- I
lag, fruit, flfawers, &c. taught on the above terms. I
W. H. flatters himfelf his icrms will be particu- I
iarly advantageous 10 those that employ him, as I , 1
he makes no additional charge if there are two 1 u
pupils in oue family.
A line dire<fted to W. H. left at the office of this I to
Gazette, wiU be immediately attended to. I
Janaary f. I ™
_ Juft.Publiftied, ' J
\nd to be h '.J at the Book-ftorei of Medrs. Dob- I j n
son, CAXratLL, Yoono and Ormbod,
in Philadelphia, I .u
OBSERVATIONS 1 1 "
On the Caufct and Cure of RenJittflig or Billious tQ
Fevers.
T» wlnl) ij aniexrd, f j (
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and praSice of
different authors : and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting inteTefting fa<9s and r< flexions relative to r
th* Synch*/ Jthroiltt, or Yellow Fever, which 111
has oc cifioned so much diftrefsand mortality, at ,r
different periods, in feveralof fcaport towns
of the United States of America.
IT WILLIAM CURRIE,
Fellow of the Philadelphia College of Physicians, f,
and Member of the American I'hilofophicalSo- t
ciety, &c. *3 m fr t
All Perions 1
Having any demands apa-nft the Estate of the f
late Captain George Irwin, are requtfted to <
bring in their accounts pioperly attefled, on or 1
before the firft day of January next enfuiog <
and those who are indebted to said eflatr are so |
licited tc. make immediate r n nifnf'ro j-- ( i
SARAH IRWIN, Adminiftratri*.
Nov. 19 1797- |
Fhilapelphia & Lancaster Turn- .
pike Company.
January 4, 1798.
At a meeting of tht Prtfdent tn.d Managers,
this day, a divu'c nd\t ? dollars fit j'hart tuai
declared ftr tbe last half year, zvhi.h :v:U be by
tbem retained, far the payment of the debts of
tbe Cortrfmny, agreeable tea reJtlmnHeftiteStcik
btlders tbe tub Jure la.'/.
TENCH FRANCIS, Tv.furer
Oftbefbi'.ad.lphial anctJler\TmlepiirCom'py.
' January 8
V :'J 'i
1 foreign Intelligence,
LONDON, NovemHrt. ten, fev<
Friday niebt rov.rom.nt, we are told, rent corre r p o
off i-mrffcnger so recall Mr. Wickh.n. fr.m fouwJ .
Switzerlaijd. Another was fcnt br ; ng t0
Sir
that this jiiinifter is alh recalled. yj
Hrilain has leH the co-operatmn of Aultr , p
but in ll.e a.ccffion of terrim, yto the emperor, F^ctidc
L has gained the ports of the Adriatic, wh.ck, tc i. T
be fide o affording flielter to our mar.ne agamo- It , that
pens to our raanufaflurer. an important f pira cy
commerce. , ftortly '
FROM the F'IENCHPJPERS. In «
PARIS, oa.b.r 3® Metten
We are informed that the d.refl.ry have g.v- fi.ron
en orderst. assemble an army of 30, goo men to who fig
act against Portugal 1 and that the jeneralis Jn hw
already appointod. In .he treaty publifhedyef
terday it is obfervabie, that nothing is fa.d a
. bout the naviga:ion of the Rhine, rhe co.cef- . £
i\<3l is t« He made upon this fubjeft will
necessarily, the objefl of the Congress at Raftadt. be sent
It is also clear, that the French will make feme two c
exertions in that quarter, and that order. have Tre ,l hj
already been given to deliver up Mentz alia tn j s lo
»o renbreitflein to the French. The
The emperor will guarantee his con «®°"» Sautaß
at the Congress. The Germaß.c body w. l c.n- =»
sent to it —England, Pruff.a, and perhaps RIT- the Ml.
si» will regret it, and will intriglie to renew the Ihe
1 war. The death of the king of Prussia will the Fr
perhaps disturb the tranq iility which it is hopetl d#n> ar
ihi. treaty would eftablilh ; but it is certain, rek|
#.atthe official journals announce that all an- ]|T .
cient Gaul will be united to France. . k „ £
15 The part of Belgium which n ceded to ui is
bounded by Duteh Brabant. „... ..
There will b*-no Cifrhenane repnblt* ; but ftiU liv
the limits of our republic are the left bank of the reCo vei
x Rhine, and tke adjacent country to Neuwied, rea(J
x comprising Mentz and Coblentx. which will be- kn<jwr
long to ui. This line will go bjm Neuwted I
to Venleo,' and will comprehend Juliers. ,
The emperor evacuates Ingolftadt, Manheim, l a Y t °
Ulm, and the fort of Ehrenbreitftein. Italy think
will form one republic. The Prince *f Orange power
and the duke of Modcna will have an indemm- li n . j
ty in the Brifgau, and in the Eclefiaftica) Elec- ; nt ; ma
toritCs I power
Friefthal, which is ceded by the <™P«* r > '
will be given to the Swiss Cantons. N e thuig " ona '
is said about Hanover or Bavaria. I hlve 1
Oftober 3i,_ lone c
x The direflory has already appointed plenipo- e harai
io tentiaries, who are to repair to the congress at I oße j,
x Raftadt, for a conclnfion of a peace with the -jf,
x slates of the empire. They are the citizens
I Treilhard and Bonnier (d'ArwJtthc fame who j
were sent to Lilla in the latter days of the ne
x gociation with' lord Malmefbury. doubt
Although the order of the direflory, which in g u
I interrupts all communication with the court of 1 w jU r
Portugal enafls, that his minister the Chevalier CQ
d'Aruejo (hall leave the French territories with- . (
out deiay, it is probable, that owing to the per- S
_ I fonalrefpeA entertained for this minifter,a prop-
er time will be allowed for his departure. I can b
November t. I I*
iub- I It is said that general Buonaparte is already on Ily to
SE-I his road to Paris. J Tl
hose I The late news from Corsica brings inte.h- I dr( j v
heir I gence of the entire dispersion of a troop of reb- I
ieis, 1 els which had formed in that island. I ,
J A letter from tbe minister of police, enjoins 1 teul .
J the couffitufed authorities to treat the Belgic Ipolle
1 emigrants in the fame manner as the French em- J
I igrants. I T
I Yesterday citixen Berthier and Mange had a I
I solemn audience with the direAory. —The for- 1 (
1 mer, i» his fpeeeh, gave an energetic recital of | .
I the obtained by the French armies in I
c(, ■ I Italy. The latter compared the English ntonat- J that
I chy to that of Philip of Macedon, who, by cor- 1 dor,
tr> I rupt means, hadfubverted the Greek republics. I non
I The Englilh government and the French repub- I of J
t. 1 lie, he inferred, could not exist together- He I tra j t
ween I concluded hisfpeech with, the following fuggef- j
| ren , tions refpefl to Great-Britain :
lateii I " Destroy a government which has corrupted I""
the morals of the whole world, but preserve a 1 fron
I nation to which J'urope is indebted in a great I ery i
I degree for its enlightenment. Do not oppress 1 g] o r
I a country which has given a Newton to the uni- I
it his 1 verse ; preserve a nation fcghly refpeflable for j j n
ifpec- its patriotism, and worthy of a better govern- j. 5
e 31ft 1 ment; raise them to the dignity of a people— I " u .
emain I complete that liberty of which they are so fond, I
:t for I and restore tbem to the'ir natural virtues—Let I whi
I the Ertglilh people exist with glory. Let them j deei
*F. jbe the rivals of the French nation, and let them I Ter ,
I both eagerly concur in spreading new lights, I
——" I and bringing the human mind to perfeflion. — I
I Let there be no other rivallhip between them — I ''
jn, I but who shall molt contribute to the happiness I and .
ono ol I of the world I" 1 lln<^
' November 9. I
"J 1 " 1 ?' I t-ATIST FtXMCH PAPtRS. j hep
' I This morning we received by exprds the Pa- I wee
a I ris journals to the 6th in#, inclufite. It appears I e v e
terms" I t^>3t Buonaparte does not immediately return I car j
irticu- I to P* 1 ''*' int ' ti ' te U P® B l"'™ , ' ll command of I t j J( .
I the army of E*gland. The peace of Germany I .
re two 1 is firft to be fettled, for which purpose he goes I
I commiflioner to Raftadt, where the congress is I on 3
ofthisjto beheld. France and the Emperor having I the
I already fettled their oyvn hufinefs, the other ar- | for
§iw J rangements can take no very longtime toadjuft; 1 tha
I especially as the combined force of ci- I
I devant enemies is to be employed to enforce I
1 the stipulations already agreed on between them, I. ,
1. Dob- I j n ,j, e private articles annexed to the late treaty. |J e
D » j We need .offer no speculation of our own on I a P'
I this point, as our readers will find fufficiept ma I it.-
terials among the following extracts from which 1
Billious to draw their own inferences. In fait, the fate J
of the petty states maybe conbdered as already I ty
_. 1- determined, and embraced by the private arti--J th;
ihib c ' ct fettled betweea the emperor and the direflo- I coi
tW -'ro r y * t ' ,t meeting of the congress, as a cere- I cai
which monial to give diplomatic form to the arrange- | thi
ality' at "»«*•• wl
t towns —— I 1
. PARIS, November 2. 1 »g
The Reda&eur contains extratts from 1
yficians, several letters written by Mallet du Pan, to '
l^e firft minister of the king of Sardinia, 011 p,
■ ■ the situation of France, and found among f u
the papers of the Senate of Venice, for the th
teofthe pri»c«P a l members of which, the noble b '
tfled to Quirini caused copies to be made. In ma- le
J, on or king these extrafts, the Redafteur has tak
enfuing en particular care to cite the paflages which
tr are so i, ave (, e ft calculated to demon- p
,; x ftmte the existence, and to txplaia the plan# p
and particular character of the authors, of d
the royalist conspiracy, which the wisdom
1 lim- al( j prudence D f the government have dif- '
concerted. t
1798. Tbe government is employed in organiz- f
'anngers, ing tbe theatres ; the number of which ii 1 ,
■tire na> to be limited. Encouragement is to be be- t
J■' b stowed on the artifls ; the school of decla- t
"/_ mation is to be revived ; and it appears to I
be the strenuous determination of the gov
furer ernment to rcpublicaniz* the public mind. '
ieCom'py. A fpiritcd meftage is to be sent to the coun
-1? <u.'i a* til of five hundred en this head. 1
which inl
November 3- if t rejefting.
t .b- archives of the »•<" excellent a telej
. ~- r ; n the Venetian council o j 5 propof
state inqu.fitorj, in ti defcript ; on of the b , of gr)
ten, fevewl d p al , have been %v 4tii En,
correfponfknee of Malitt <«» lb lj(h«d zens Bre
found. These papers will, *n f t , dividu .
bring to light the ( ed A tra
a ls who did not expeft to be t comman
topablic view; and the coi^rac ofI« but last
, fruftidor wiU be thus more clearly .lucid teen offi
i The deftiivy of the republic will ha - »nd Hrin
' ■ L 11 ,\ (!*#• relative to that con- two reg
■ it, that aU the fact* rdame ffl |W Wcl
F fuiracy shall be revealed. Extratt fmlll nu
. (hortly be laid before the public. rfe*p*d
In consequence of the refufal o fmgloin
Metternieh, the Emperor has
- Baron Degelman, o.e of the noblemen
» who signed the treaty ofUd.ru, toatte
' in his nanje at the congrefit of Raftadt. Th,
Np.vember 4- Difcov.
r We are assured that general Buonaparte I
,* is to be President of the legation which is to | Iu a
t. be sent to tke cdngrefs of Raftadt. lac hfnde <j
e two other plenipotentiaries are citizens ; ng
e Treilhard and Bonnier. Citizen llozentiel |
1 is to be secretary of the legation. • lent de
The emperor hss just appointed count
" Sauran minister ot finances and Prehdent o L,at
f. the aulic chamber. IndtgeJ
le The day before yesterday a member ot
ill the French legation at Berlin, citizen Du- her fti
sd don, arrived here. It it said that his journ- up *Ol
ey relates merely to his own private affairs :
we are, however, of a contrary opinion : Ass
is we know through other channel* that on fympt
the 2111 of October the king of Pruflia was f| C i a n
ut ft ill livißg, bat with scarcely any hope ot j, Te r
he recovery. The eyes of all Europe are al. which
d ' ready fixed on hi# ' fncceffor, who i» her ft
>c j known to be strongly disposed to war ; and ma kes
C I ofthisdifpofition more than one court is rea- r y bel
m , dy tp take advantage. There is reason to (
ily think that the court of Peterlburgh has a A
ge powerful influence over the cabinet of Ber- puthii
1 lin i and we besides know that the latter it to be
tc " intimately connected with another great Buon
powers : itis prefamed that the new Prussian Be tl
° V ' monarch will, on his acCession to the throne fwift
have several ijiterefts to combine, more than flreng
one difficulty to overcome ; and, if his felf b
»o- eharafter be as decided as is said, more than
at one daiger to brave. In
I The editor of the Sentinelle has the sol- by n<
>ho lowing ftroug paflage on the fubjeft of the degri
ne ° I treaty with the Emperor «•" There is no Sans
doubt but that the Emperor aims at enfnar- got
ich ing us. He wiflies to gain time ) and we terio
:o M will venture to hazard what may perhaps "gaini
f'® r Ibe considered as a political blasphemy—No rema
I trujt ought to i/c reposed in the trcatiet which redu
op- kings make •with republics ; aad their envoys of m
can be no otheT than traitors and hypocrites, has
I It requires sincerity and common sense on- have
•n I ly to agree to this truth." will
I The secret articles of the treaty conclu-
I ded with the Emperor are already begun to Ii
c Ibe executed.—The Auftrians have evacua- ingr
tins 1 ted Mentz, which we are preparing to take her 1
Ijjic I poffeflion of. Coc
em- J NoTtmbtr J. has
The glorious peace which our victories —a
'd 1 I kave obtained, has deprived the enemies of ny 1
it of I tlle COUBtr y ewrn of the liopT of reducing it
,;I n to fubjettion. Frenchmen, do not forget, £
nar . j that without the cannot of the ißthFruAi- said
cor- I dor, you never would have heard the can- wit
•lies. I non of the sth Brumaire, and that the king wh<
pub- l o f Blankenbonrg, invited to return by the fee.
t 5 I traitors who had fhamefully devoted them- vid
'® c ' I selves to his caufe,without that event, would
pted I BOW have exercised the moll cruel vengeance 1
v« a I from the tkrone of his aneeftsrs. Let ev- ing
great I ery set of men combine to celebrate this tha
preji I glorious event. Let the vile calumniators fho
u "'" I wh« lately accused the directory with defir- tial
I ing tne continuance of the war, be con-'
3 j c _ I founded. Let our victorious army—let <
fond, I their immortal chief receive the homage bee
-Let I which they deferve—lt remaias for us, in- piu
them j deed, to triumph over the monstrous go- nui
them vernment of England and the (hameful con- hat
S hts ' Iduftdf Portugal. At this moment the de- we
snv I landa eji Carthago flies from mouth to mouth net
pinefs I at, d 'et all cmr warriors march to victory, mc
I under the the moil (invincible of generals. Tl
I The celebrated expedition attempted by a an<
J hero, whose loss we (hall long continue to in
ie Pa- I weep, has proved to haughty Albion that uni
ipeari I even upon the foil where London ltands,we
ctur " I car|fco and'plant the Franch standard. L«t
manv I S England, so long misled by a co
I ™ in cooly inhuman, tremble to fee Bu- mt
rtf« ii onaparte arrive triumphant oil the bank 3of pe
aving I the Thames. Then hope of laltatioji po
icr ar- I for him is loft. The republicans pitied more fr<
djuft; I than they hated the Emperor ; but if not ru
'force I k"i n S George himfelf, at Itfaft his prime mi
them', I abominable council are the ob
reaty! jje& of national hatred, nnd if they do not A
»n on I apptafe its fury, they tnuft .be devoured by fir
it ma- I it.—Rcdafteur. K
which j -- NovemUtr 6. • va
ie site J One of the principal secret articles of the trea- m
lready I ty of peace concluded with ;he emperor hears,
e arti--1 that we fliall not abandon Venice and the other ,
ireflo' I countriet ceded to the emperor till he (hall have |
t cere- I caused Mentx and the ether places situated on ' a
rAige- J the left bank #f rlie Rhine to be evacuated, di
I which are henceforth to form the boundariei of p
J the French republic. Siine journajifts exclaim «
I against this article, fayinj-, that the emperor has f {
from I n ? r 'Sbt toceds to us w' at does net belong to t
'an to I '" m * ''' s not coh *lderei', however, that there
. » may be an alliance between the emperor and the a
11a, on 1 F ren eh republic guaranteeirg this c.eflion, in r
among s uc h a manner, that if any of the elciTiors of t
for the the circle bf the empire ftiouljl oppefe it,the com
noble bined forces of the emgeror and France would
In ma- f#oß r ' n ß ,he ' i: P e,t )' P r ' ni 'o.r t jf«n. 1
ag With regard to those who fay, that a more
( advantageous treaty nvghuhav heen made, we "
(hould rcfleit that it r. no worse to have the ap
lemon- pearaiKf of rtipeatipfe whir tfi* Ven done. A '
e plans power into be attached <0 us, l lWy what we I
ora, of do, than what he"h»pes we lhalldo. I
wisdom 1° F?anee the erfflr which so long prevails ! (
ave dif- that il wat """="7 t"> weaken the English pow
er by attacking it in Indii or Airerice, is now
exploded. It is in the channel that wc (hall
rjaniz- | rucce ed the BritiJh marine Plf
hich is vdle, who, to the experience of sge an-» nra^ice,
'be be- unites* courage, talents, and the leve of his coiin
f decla- try, is so wet! awata ofthistrutli, that h.< is re
•ears to pairing with activity aad without noise, all the
t,e gov- P«ans •£ putting it m yraAiqe Meanwhile he
c mind. i P r " d ' devaflation thro' the commerce of Eng
land, by the courfc which he encourages with
»s coun- 4 fi his might. He ha« adopted the oulv mari
,, time fyftcm which is proper for France, ai.d
m ********* ***?&&!:.
Zens Breguel and Refourcourt. I , o
■ teen officers btlor-.g ng to the Prince ed inca
I s°
s tza
n From an Englijh Paper. when i
d 0&. 17- cerer C
The tUDRMIAL DISEASES «f KVXOPK- grade
Discovered by feeling the pulse of the 1 imes. Pigmu
el france, theme
0 In a Phrinzy Fever, which it is appre- perbot
lC hended will require more bleeding and purg- true b
,s i ine than ever : notwithstanding (he has un
t:l | dergone those operations already, in a vio- Wl
' lent degree. and a
it ; spain, r been t
of Labouring under a most oppreflive fit of her f Q
Indigeliion j from having been compelled to ; Ra , f c
swallow an Olive Branch, which flicks in ; TirtU e
u " her ftomech so, that (he can neither get it powel
n " up nor down. j tic* oi
1 : PORTUGAL. i fe
1: Afflifted in a similar manner, with strong }! o p t
3" symptoms of a Surfeit besides, and no Phy- va lcfc
as lician toadvife with but an old woman, who balm .
of i« Tery fubjeA to fits of Non Pompos, of w0
ah which there cannot be a greater proof than mmm
is hel . ftiling herfelf Moji Faithful, while (he
nd ma k<s no feruple to break faith with herv.e-_ i
sa- ry bed friends. HOI
to , GERMANY,
a A little touched in the wind with hard
er- puihing, which the French faculty pronounce
i» to be an AJlhma, and that another bru(h with
eat Buonaparte, will entirely knock her up • f
ian Be that as it may—the race is not to the
>ne fwift—and whether (he gives in for want ot
ian firength, Ihe and her rider hav« proved her
his felf bottom. t h e J
nan HOLLAND, g t|
In a Galloping Confumftien; oceafioned,
sol- by not wearing the breeches in so profuft a
the degree as ufualj being obliged to supply the
no Sans Culottes, by which poor Mynheer has
»ar- e ot the pip, and it has flown from his pof
we teriors to the nobler part 6. Ihe disorder
aps "gains ground daily, and the patient who was
■No remarkable for being fat as a hog, is nov.'
hich reduced to ameer (hadow. The late course
oys of medicine administered by admiral Duncan 0
ites. has been found too powerful, the bolnjfrs
on- have caused so great an evacuation ; that it f
will prove a death fir tke. P
du- SWITZERLAND,
nto In a fit nf the heart burn, from some four P ar '
cua- ingredients which were lately served up in
take her rnefs, to the praise and glory of French ™g
Cookery ; but a little fait of wormwood, tee
has done much towards neutralizing the acid ' ub J
ories —and the paroxifm is not likely to be of a- d "-
:s of ny longer_dnration- - 33
ng it SARDINIA, ut
rget, Sadly troubled with ruptures, which it is ferr
uAi- said, arose from a violent (train, in wrestling
can- with a French raw-bead "and bloody bones, ,m J
king who only peeped into Piedmont, crying out rea '
r the set. fai», /urn, and like Csefar with his vent ami
hem- vidi vici, bore down every thing before him. bee
ould NAPLES, hef
:ance Full of morbid humours, which are increaf- tov
t ev- ing to an alarming degree, and it is feared of
this that nothing less 'than a political plague will mg
ators (hortly be the consequence of those peftilen- fail
iefir- tial symptoms. - - 1331
con-' turkey, co '
—let Quite paralytic; from the Divan having If
mage been gorged with an unusual quantity of o- wh
>, in- pium pills, gilded with the aurum Gallica- coi
s go- num; —which, as for some time past they ta:
Icon- had been fubjeft to political qoalms, they cu
ie de- were advised by some quacks to swallow, as th:
nouth neutral ; being told, that nothing tended tet
Story, more efficacioufly to allay fomentations.— *i)i
erals. The diagnostics are highly unfavourable, fai
by a and unless the patient (hakes oif the disease
ue to in a very short time, (lie must inevitably link rei
that under it.
ds,we venice, na
Let Rotting, inch by inch, from an infeftion ha
by a communicated by French embraces, torn- so
e Bu- monly called the fraternal hug. The diltem- cc
ik 3of per gains ground apace, and nothing ti(
cation csnrfarve'lhe whole state
more from falling into one univcrfalanafs of eor- w
f not ruption. ' w
nemi- Prussia, bi
he ob- Still far worse off tkan the Spouse of the pi
lo not Adriatic, being at once molt grievously in
red by smitten, both with the scurvy, and, the q
King's Evil: the foxier disease having per- p
vaded the whole Prussian army, of which I
ie trea- m any scurvy proofs arc extant, and for ft
which they will cut a molt scurvy figure in
ill have l h e » e yes of all Europe. And, as for the v
ted on hitter, there never was known a nation, un- o
cuated, der Heaven, in which the King's Evil has r
ariei of proved a scourge so universal; nor a King, p
exclaim who, outwardly and inwardly has so mani
:ror has f e ft e d £ v il t ; n the vilelt sense of the word.— f.
atlh 're lort » eveT Y thing here is in & state incur- r
and the a^f » and may Heaven i» mercy to mankind <
Tion, in r, ght suddenly remove the Evil cause, that f
£lor« of those Evil rjfefts may (hortly be no more. (
he com- the pope, 1
would Struggling molt totteringly against the
Falling Sicinefs, but all in vain, We will <
not be so rude as to fay the Whore of Babylon
. the ap hut the poor old lady, call her by what j
owe. A name you please, is literally, upqn. her lalt
what we legs, and the (taggeiing blow 3 (he lias late
' ly had, si rom her own unnatural Sons, will, (
certainly, lay her as flat as a flounder : And !
• is 'now 'hen farewell to future Bulls, Indulgences, |
we (hail Dispensations, BenediQions, Anathemas,
ie. Pie- an( l the Holy Commodities of the Holy
practice, See, when the Holy Sons ps the Church
his coun- (hall exclaim with Holy Corrow, that the
h- U re- Fitlc of his Holiness is pone forever.
ihlirhe iussia,
e of Eng- a Leihkrgy.—Often dreaming of doing
ig« with what, waking was nev?rthought on. Dead,
ily Marl- ' ,l effeft to the calls of humanity, and unfeel- j
nee, ai.d ingly dVaf to thegroass of mankind! Arouse '
j supine, unanimaled p jtm . N or become ],k:
MtDBRiCK, the objeft of Shake
' ® ff this ldle flee P. death's counterfeit, a'n.i
; j look on death itfelf." See the carnage
. | which Frenchmen have spread Oyer Europe
fpurn this inglorious somnolency, awak- in
! time to redeem thy dying fa me , a „d do :h e
: duty of a man to Empire born.
> DENMARK aild SWEDEN,
* Both seized with the Cramp ; and render
. Ed incapable of stirring hand or fo«t. Poor
I crippled objefts, how contemptible in t h«
- eyes of the aftive and the brave. War
s them even in the bell of causes, was K ,Jj
a and vinegar ; a neutralizing draught w, nf
down quite sweet,' and they drank it off
the very dregs. Ho* little did they think
when imbibing the potion, that, Hk e
cerer Comus's vile Beverage, it would °de'
grade the drinkers to a rank inferior to the
s - Pigmies. Yet Sic mutamini P;cnn\ar'u ! And
the metamorphoks of those degenerate h"
perboreans affords food for Uurhter t ail'
I' true born sons of c I
ll_ OLD ENGLAND,
3- Who, while combating a Chronical Fl ux
and a Sweating ftcknefs, by which A* hw
r been dwindled down to a Lentea lifcenefsof
of her former felf, yet still preserves her Sta«i
---' na, found, firm and iincorroded : And by
'_ n ; virtue of a conftitutien, which neither the
II power of France can overturn, nor the poli
tic* of France can undermine, hwlds her head
«!», secure of her recovery, while smiling
''si hop* anticipates the hour, when in heT con
y- valefcerit state, she (ball rtftore the healing
t balm of peace to a distempered and diftraft.
of : ed world. BRIfSH
an iMw>uMu>|ti| | i|ui , , iiL .| a || t |, ju |
:e. J7 Q 7V ft. & -C
---HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
ird
MONDAY JANUARY IJ.
j th The bill from the Senate, to rompenfate
their door-keeper and his assistant, was read
,j )C the third time and pafled.
f The Speaker laid before the house a com
er_ munication from the Treasury Department,
inclosing tke accounts of the Treasurer of
the Receipts and expenditures of the Urn'ted
States, for the quarter ending on the 30th
e J December last, which were ordered to be
the Printed
has r- Dwight Foster made an unfavoura
ble bli report on the petition of Stephen Sa^re,
>t j er which was ordered'to lie upon the table.
was Mr. Tillinghaft, agreeable to-the notise
!OV , he gave on Friday la(t, proposed a refolu
,rfe tion for the adoption of the house to the *
caa following effeft:
, l rr (S " Resolved, that a committee be appoin
tjt ted to bring in a bill for the purpose of re
pealing the aft of Congress past the last fef«
fion, laying a dirty on w stamped vellum,
four parchment and paper."
, Mr. J. Williams wished this resolution 4
rich might be so altered as to go to the cemmit
30d tee of Ways and Meant, who having the
ae ;d fubjeft of Revenue generally under confi
)f a- deration, were,' ot' couTTf, the judges
as to the propriety of repealing the aS in
question. But before the resolution was re
it ; s ferred, he wished to amend it by adding,
•|; ns r also an aft laying an additional duty on Salt
ones, imported into the United States." His
r out reason for wishing the resolution to be thus
' ve „f amended was, that when the Stamp aft had
him. been agreed to, a proposition (which had
before been rejefted) was brought forward,
reaf- towards the close of the feflion, when many*
■ared of the members were gone home, for lay
-1 will ing an additional duty on fait which it was
tilen- said was neceflary to iland against.the stamp
cax which would fall principally upon the
commercial and monied part of our citizens,
iving If therefore, a repeal of the Stamp aft /
of e- which chiefly affefted thole interests was to
tllica- come under consideration, he wished the fait
they tax, which principally anefted the Agri
they cultural interest, alfp to be considered, and
(v, as that both should be referred to the Commit
:nded tte of Ways and Means together, that they >
nS- might report upon the whole fubjeft at the
rable, fame time.
ifeafe The Speaker declared the motion itor a'
v (ink reference to be firft in ordet.
Mr. Harper hoped the resolution would
not be agreed to, as he held a report in hi«
;ftion hand on the petition from Virginia, paying
tom- for a repeal of the Stamp aft, which ot
iftera- course involved the fubjeft of this refolu-
'
but, a tion. .
. jujtf Mrs'? Rutledge truftid the resolution
f cor- would not be agreed to. believed it
was of more importance than it fetmed to
be considered by the house j as it did not
of the propose to appoint a committee to enquire
voufly into the expediency of repealing the law m
id the question, but for the special purpose of re
g per- porting a bill for the repeal of the law..
which Had the former mode been adopted, lie
ad for should not have objefted to it.
jure in The Speaker observed that the m»tion
or the was to refer the resolution to the committee
n, un- of ways and means, who would of courle
vil has report upon the expediency of the measure
Kinr, proposed.
, mani- Mr. Dept proposed to postpone the tur
ord. consideration of the resolution tlntil t<>-
s incur- morrow, when it could be rrfered tothe laws
ankind committee of the wha'e t-o wh»w were - r l c "
e, that ferred the report which the Chaif-wan of the
nore. Committee,of Ways and Means had f.lid
he was prepared to make on tins
nft the and then both applications would come un
,Ve will dec consideration at tiie :ame time.
Jabylon After fame littb c«ni'.deration on the u -
y what ieft, which went chiefly to fhevv that -
ber last petition fjom Virginia was to the ' am<
las late- pose with this refokition, the repert o • -
is, will, j committee of Ways and means upon .1 M
• : And ! be the fame which would be madC u P°"
Igcnccs, resolution if referred to them T 020
themas, was carried. _ Prefi
ic Holy A mefTage was received from the -
Church dent of the United States, infonning tne
hat the hdufe he had approved and signed *0
for the relief of the reprcfentat.ves ot V*«
liam Carniichael ; an ac> authoring tne
of doing payment of certain funis ot rr.oney to
Dead ! daughlers of the late Cunt de ,G«i
iunfeel- aft for th. relief of Norto and ' -
Arouse ' and an aft fer making certain partia a,,' r 3pri«tjon» ,fi»r tae service* of the year j
j 798. I
Mr. Harper, from the committee of ivays j
a«d means, made thereport (which. had been j
alluded to) on the petition of certain free- j
holders of Somerset, -Stifles and Prince 1
George, in Virginia, praying for a rqjeal
of the Stamp Aft. The report ft sted, that
in the opinion of the committee of ways
ana means, it would b^,inexpedient to re
peal tlie said aft, and that therefore the pe- l._
titioners have leave to withdraw their peti- J
tion. This report was referred to a com-- j
mittee of the whole, and made the order
for Monday next.
Mr. Harper, from the famfc committee,
to whom was referred the eftjmates neeeda
ry for the service of the year 1798, report
ed a bill providing fi>r*the expences of the
Civil Department of government for the
year 1798, which was twice read, and re
ferred to a committeeof the whole for Wed
nesday.
Mr. H. also reported, from the fame
committee, a bill providing for the means
of intercourse between the United States
and foreign nations, which 'was committed
for Thursday.
Mr. Liviiigfton called up for coniiderati
on and decision, the resolution which he laid
upon the table a few days ago, for the ap
pointment of a committee of enquiry into
the expenditure of the money which had
been appropriated for the naval service.
The House agreed to take up this bu
siness.
Mr. Harper said, he believed that the ap
pointment of such a committee was very
unusual, without having fomc ground dated
to the house for the proceeding. A vote
of thru kind, he ahferved, would imply a g
censure upon the conduft of our public of
ficers, which certainly ought not to be done
hastily, or, without firfthaving, at lead some
ground of suspicion laid before them upon
which to aft. The house had not yet re-.
ivi.'d the statements which had been called
for relative to this buCuefs ; they were di
rected to be laid before the house the lad
Week in January, and might therefore, soon
l>e expected. £Several gentlemen said it
was thefrfl, and not the lad week ia Janu
ary, in which the accounts had been order
ed to be laid before the house.] Mr. H.
said the delay,, he supposed, had been oc- .
cafioned by the offictrs having been objiged
to remove from the city, during the fever.
He hijd, however, been informed th?t these
statements would be ready in a few days.—
And would it not be extraordinary, if, be
fore they received these statements, they
were to appoint a committee of enquiry ?
He thought it would. He believed the of
ficers of this department of goverumcnt
were very desirous of the enquiry taking
place ; but this was not a i'ufficient reason
for the house to proceed in the business
wtihout having firft fom? ground to suppose
the money had been misapplied, and this
he believed cpuld not be afcertainedg until
the expefted iUtements were before "the
house. 'AMlgp -thrCt wm lanWH it
was possible thehoufe might be fatiified with -
refp«ft to the expenditures of the money,
and it would, therefore be improper to ap
point a Committee to enquire into a busi
ness, which might so shortly appear fatis
faftory. If, on the other hand, these ac- _
counts flieuld not Ue fatisfaftory, he would 1
readily concur in the appointment of a com- t
■nittee of Enquiry. j t
Mr. J. Williams said, the gentleman from t
S. Carolina ought to recolleft that the en- t
quiry was produced by Is farther appropria- t
tion being called for. It might be best to j
defer the enquiry, until the accounts which «
had been called for were laid before the c
house; and he ihould have been fatisfied 1
with the business taking that course, if a {
further appropriation had not been called f
for in the mean time. But when they were
called upon ts appropriate a farther fun of
money for any objeft, it was natural to en
quire what was become of that already vo
ted; and the only way of doing this was to
appoint a committee who would look into
all the different statements which had from
time to time, been laid before the house,
and those which might shortly be commu
nicated, and date their opinion thereon to
the house. He thought those gentlemen 1
who were mod friendly to the frigates ought
not to oppose the appoiatpaent-of this, com
mittee; because if it (hould appear that the £
money had been justly expended, there £
would be little objection to a farther appro- '[
priation.
(Debate to be continued.) n
— ' <r
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
1 No. lie WaUiut-ftfcet, ,
INFORM"! those who wi(h to recur to the only
meant of tecomirj; perfect in the French Lau
guage, that he has jutt opened his Library, con- at
lifting of upwards of 1500 volumes, the bed cal- c ]
culated to afford either ufcfu) iottru.Slion, or plew- -•
sure. The conditions, together with a catalogue ,
or the Library, may be seen at every book-feller's .
in town. ti
n. h. All translations from and into the French, fc
XtngHiih and Spani(h, Languages, cxecu:e<i with ac
curat) and difpatcli. coim t f,
James C. Sartiuel W. Fi/her, C£
AT THEiR STORE,
No.jij, cornerof Arch aird Front flreets, re
BArs FOR SALE, ail
Cotton and worded Hcfiery in trunks, aborted so
A few bales reij, white, aad yellow Flannels ty
Ditto fuctv romall KandLerchicts •
Ditto Prf'icaiPfiHt ditto lc
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs ditto ur -
Ditto Gurrahs da
Bengal black Taffttics an
4000 pieces Nankeens, and rv
few chests bed Hyson Tea
As.~~ieo? bWs belt Lonion Window Glass,
from 8 by b, to 19 by U —and xj hhds. Glass
•re, ailorted, wtych they will dispose of cheaper
than any in the city. ' '
novemter ti. , awtf (
OVAX BOTTLES.
Qtiart and half gallon in era \ cs—and aquanti- -
iv ps Claret Bottles of a right size—Per sale at
Ko. y, CXiirch Allev. JOHN DOHSEY.
U 3t»w6w.
ti- ; LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES.
71- I ' '
ier ■ .
rt- Congress of the Unhid Sh;tcs :
he at the sicond session,
he Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia,
re- intheStateofPennfyl'vania,on Monday,
:d- the thirteenth of November, one
thoufaud seven hundred and
me ninety-seven.
ins
tes AN ACT
ed Mating certain partial appropriations for the
year one thoujandfevtn hundred and ninety
ti- eight.
,p d Sec. t. Tl E ' V Senate ad
A > House of Rep) efentatives of the
United Statet of America, in Congress ajfem
b'ed, Tnat the sum of one hundred thou
sand dollars ihall be, and the fame hereby is
appropriated towards defraying the expen
ces during the year one thousand seven hun
'P dred and ninety-eight, of the Quart'er-
Mader's, and Indian Departments of the
defenfive proteftion of the Frontiers, of
J c bounties ; aa& ef the-jgontiogent charges
or the War Department ; "ar;d a like
sum towards defraying the expences, du
ring the said year, of the fubfiftcnee of the
officers, non fommiffioned officers and pri
e'l vatcl t!le array of the United States.
Ed ec ; 2 - -d n d be it further enaßcd, That
j;. the sum of fifty-two t'uoufand dollars be,
an'j Tfie farftehereby is appropriated for pav
on inga»d difchargingfuchawards as have been,
i t or may be made pursuant to the fevsuth ar-
IU _ tide of the Treaty of Anjily, Commeree,
- r . and Navigation between the United States
3, and Great-Britain, in favor of British fub
ic- j fl^t8 > whefe property has been captured with
in the jurifdiftion of the United States, or
. r _ by vessels armed or fitted out therein,
fe Sec. 3,. And be it further enaded, That
_ the aforcfaid sums liall be paid and difchar
ic- g e| l out a "y monies in the Treasury of
e y the United States, not otherwise appropri
f > ated.
>fl JONATHAN DAYTON,
n t Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Ig ' TH ; JEFFERSON,
3n Vice Prefdent of the United Statet,
:fs and President of the Senate.
fe Approved, January 15, 1798.
& JOHN ADAMS,
til President of the United States.
Ie"
it AN ACT
th Authorizing the paymert of tcrtainfums ofmo
y ney to the daughtert of the late Count de
p. Grajfe.
S- T>E it enaßed by the Senate and House of
s- XJ Representatives, of the United States of
c- Attisrica, in Congress ajfembled, That in con-
Id fider;i*ion of the imp«rtant services render
n- ed to the United States by the late count
de praffe, there be p*id, annu*lly, in quar
m ter yearly payments, during five years from
n- the time of palling this aft, out of any
a- monies in the treasury, not otherwise appro
to priated, the sum of four hundred dollars to
h each of the four daughters of the said
ie count de Grade, namely, Amelia de Grade,
:d Adelaide de Grade, Malanie de Grade, and
a Silvie de Grade, if they (hall refpeftivtly
'd so long live". '
re JONATHAN DAYTON,
>f Speaker of the House of Representatives
1- TH: JEFFERSON,
3- Vice President of the United States
o and President of the Senate,
o Apprtved January Iy, 1798.
n JOHN ADAMS,
-» President of the United States.
O AN ACT
n Far tht relief of the Representatives of William
it Carmichael, deceased.
' 3cc. '' ena 3 e d by the Senate and
-13 House of Representatives of (he
e United States of America in Congress ajfemblcd,
' That in the settlement of the accounts be
tween the United States and William Car
. Michael, dectafed, their late'charge des af
faires in Spain,the accounting officers of the
Treafuty Department be, and they hereby
are authorised and direfted to place to the
credit of the said William Carmichael, the
y sum of eight thouiand two hundred and sis
. ty-eight dollars and seventy-six cents, for, 1
- and in full of his extraordinary expenses, it
■ charge des affaires aforefaid, from the twen- '
" tieth day of May, ia the year'one thousand
9 seven hundred and eighty two, to the twen
tieth day of April, in the year o»e thaufand
, seven hundred and ninety. ]
Sec. 2. And be it further enabled, That ia ;
the settlement of the said accounts, the ac t
counting officers aforefaid, (tall be, and c
they hereby are further authorised and di f
rested to credit and allow to the said Willi- '
am Carmichael, at the rate of four thousand [
four hundred and forty foyr dollars aad for- ,
ty four cents annually, from the said twett- \
tieth day of May, one thousand seven hun- 1
drrd and eighty two, to the said twentieth 1
day of April, one thousand seven hundred
and ninety, in full of all claims for his fala- -
ry during that period.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of //•» House of Representatives.
TH : JEFFERSON, J
Vice President of the United States,
and President »f the Senate. ft
United States, ")
January 15th I 798 J
Approved.
JOHN ADAMS, h
President of th United Siatef.
*■' # ! . 1
» AN AC/
bjr ire retiej of Worth and Vof Charlrf
ton South' Carolina.
, T) Eit enaßed hy tht Senate and House of
ij Representatives of the United Slates of
America, in Congress ajfembled, That the col
leilor of the pott of Charlellon, in the
diftrift of South Carolina he, and he is here
by authorised and dfiedted to pay to North
and Vefey, of the city of Clrtrlefton, mer
chants, the amount of the duties paid by
iS. them on {o much of a certain qtrwt.'tv of
fu^a rs imported into the said po»tf, in the
prife-jhip, called the Amity, on tfie fei-nth
day i>f Apr:J, one tlioufaud levru ifundred
and ninety-fix, asfliall be proved+o W3 fat?
isfaclion, to have -6eerv burrr^
in the said city t/ Charfcfton. TJie fafdfii- !
gars not tieij/jj liable to the payment ofdii- j
hia, ties, the sale thereof having been prohibit
ed.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Reprefntattvei.
TH : JEFFER6ON,
Vice Prtf.dent of the United States,
and lrefident of the Sena ft.
tht Approved January 15, 1 79#.
ety- JOHN ADAMS,
Prejidentof the United States.
a j Deposited among the rolls in the office 6f
~ t / ]t the Department of State.
Tem- Timothy Pickering, Secretary »f State.
OU- -
11 By this day's Mail.
t' cr _ NE W-YOU K, January 15
t jj. -A- letter of Nov. 17 from London, fays, infur
-0 per J£IOO.
- , -t-.V" -■**&!***" -.. 'V- *X>t
!Ke Ihe following k handed us fcy a correfpon.
du- dent.
the Lxtraß if a letlterfront a gentleman in London,
•_ to <1 rcfyeSuplr merchant in thf city, received
■ J>ytU Diana, at lUJlou, and dzxi, London,
b.'ov. 8,1 797
hat " Wr'haye r.o.crrtamDccwntaof theprogrefs
be, «/ }•<»••-«omro;ffioner» J but it it sported, that
av- y h»Vt been told, till your exifltng treaty
• with France is fulfilled, it k utineceffary to en
' ter on any difeuflion as to a neiv one. This is
ar " not impi Obable->-theEmperor Jias been force') to
ee, s peace, and -what direiflion the irrefutable force
ites of the republic raay next take, remains to be
üb_ seen. Happy would it have been for your eom
th- mercc and your country, had Mr. Jay's treaty ne
or verexifled —that is the sole caufeof your prelcnt
treatment by the diredlory." f Argus.)
' lat From the New Tori daily Gazetti.
iar
j. POSTSCRIPT.
A ship belonging to Boston, has arrived
' T1 ~ at Charleftan from Bourdeax, which ftie
left on the 16th of Nov. with the news of
our Envoys being «bliged to quit Park.
This we have from tha mouth of cdpt. Sill,
of the fchoaner Amphitrite, who had it
from Mr. Thomson, Cnftom heula ■ officer
of that port, he having boarded the (hip at
the Bar, the day capt. S. failed, which was
the "4th inft.
Arrived yesterday,
Brig Hunter, Brown, from St. Jago de
Cuba, in 8 days; and the brig Nymph
CHARLESTON, JAN.4. -
Arrived, sloop Fanny, Johnftan., from
of New York—and fchr. Alniira, Caulkint;
of Cape N. Mole, in diilrefs, bound to New
>n- York.
er- The.brig Hannah, wbisji /ailed from this. .
int port 23 daya ago for Philanelphia, returti
ar- ed yesterday, in consequence of bad winds.
>m The B. frigate Prevoyante arrived in
ny Tybee a few days ago, with a small Dutch
0- dogger in tow— a prize.
[° ~ , ' . . !
' ld City Commiffionfer's Office,
L .' January, ttt/j, 1707.
no FOR THIS INFORMATION OF THE CITIIENJ.
:ly HPHE following arrangement is made by the ]
X said Commissioners, for cleanGng the ,
streets, &c.
DiftriA No. I.—From the north fide ef Vine
street to the south fide of Mulberry fireet J to
be under the fiiperinttndaace of Nicholas Hick». ]
a. From tht south fide of Mulberry Qreet, to ]
the south fide of Chefiuit street to be uuder the i
fuperindanee of Wiliiam Moulder.
3. From the south lidi of Chefmit fireet to !
the north fide of Spruce street, to be under the j
fuperintendance of Jofep'n Claypdole.
4. From th# north fide of Spruce street, to the J
south fide of Cedar street, t& be under the fu-' (
,m perintendante of Hugh Kobarta. mwfim ,
To Cabinet Makers, Joiners, e
"he " Cavanagh & Hearn,
', Pine-street, near the New-Marliet,
' D E TURN thanks to their friends and the '
e public, for their liberal encouragement, c
t- and hope, by their unremitting attention, to *
if- merit a continuance of their favors. The Part- 1
-.C nerlhip hetween and Joseph B. Barrv, his J
beau diflolved by mutual consent. Cavanagh v
lc an 6' Hearn have just received a quantity of St. i
Domingo and Honduras Mahegony, which they t
intend to fell on very reafiinable termss for caih. tl
f- Orders from the country molt punctually txc
r, cuted. Vineers ©f all kinds cut as usual. »
Sj J an - T 5- j 1
j" 60 Dollars Reward. si
d ai
1- nAN AWAY from the fuKfcriber, 011 the 24th "
d oi December, *?97» a N-'gro Man, about 21
years old, by the name of Cato,he is about 5 feet tx ,
7or 8 inches high, milling well proportioned; he 1
has a very coarse voice, his ftandvery r
tar apart ; there were 0:1 c or with him—l
d cannot rightly dcfcribe the cloaths he took with
{ him, for he took two or three suits ;he had 011 t j,
whftnhewent a\vay, a pair of kersey trowfers, a Q f
, halt worn drab coloured a half worn wool ih
hat ;he took with him four very good Ihirts——l B;
#xpc& he has madq for Philadelphia or the jersey*. th
t- VVhofoever takes up 'said and fctumliim, so an
that the owner may Jiitu again, (hall have the di
above reward, paid by w#, JOHN MOORE, in
, Living iu Still Poai, Kent coub«y» HJaryland. co
Tanuary 2. '6 tl aw / , io
A House in Burlington for Sale*
THE fuMcribej* his a large, convenient two- M
story bri.k House, with Stabfcs, Carriage-
house, and a well improved Garden, in the City
of Burlhigton, New-Jersey, which be wi(he»ta
SkLL, For terms apply at No. 5, South Fourth Si
street, to GEORGE WALKEK, r
, Who has also for Sale, D
Lots in Waftiington City,
Ciintiguousto the Capito! and to thfcpriocipsl _
harbour. j a
I);ceniber 49. ea ~.
■~ f - %\n Oautu.
I'( PHILADELPHIA,
the _ i " n - SOAY EVgjftNO. JAXU.iRr 16.
• re ' No recent dispatches from our commif-
doners in France, have been received by '
ler " Gov^nment.
The southern mail had not arrived when (
°f this paper went to press.
the '
ntll The cajolery pr»£lifed of lat; years.by certain 1
red cxclefive rtpitblic its in assuming i>ccu : iir t:tl«Jif
f at i dii V.nation,.nation, is so ftaie an artifice, and iiai been so !
red c °B>ni6n to t!icu'ciitagi»j(vu's ct allagtls, t/:at " t.'y;
man 0/ the people," •• tl j i jor r of the fwplc,"
" u " and *' the inend of the puiihe," infte.id us blind- '
dll- ing odr eyes to the baf.iiefj and tfeacherv of the
bit- correfpondont of Muzzei, Gi es GL-g=rbread and c
T ;tiien Polyphcenius, only renew the lemcrob v
iance of the vjit. om Grat.cbi, the Cxiar», Oati- c
line» t and patriots of ancient time-..
The Jacobin fa<sio* (we have it from their C '
o\fn mouths) are the tm patriots of America, the "
, guardians of the public rights, and the proteftor l ) h
oT their liberiiae aga;Ml tlx encroachme ;ts of their li
own government: -Jo mnrh for words. Now-for n
t|ieir acftiops ; —the Citizen Friend of Mazzei ac
• 4 ua ' ntß 'he tnemy that the government and peo
01 ptc arc at bdds, the application could not escape a
them ;> —" a house divided agaiafl itfvli cannot b
ate Hence all the violences upon our Com- f
—m meree j hence all these intrigues tending to the j
subversion of our government, and the deep-laid
f<heme for rewarding the patriot witji the preii
dency of the country, colonized to th. enemy by
hiipatristic labors- Citizen Monroe (the only
ma* 111 America fit for die office of Ambalfador to (_
r lir _ France-) [rfoehis credentials I fairly attempts, as an
cas Trter ha< /hewn, t« deliver bound hand ,
c and foot, into ihe power of France. Citizen Ni
cholas calls himfeif tie friirj oj tie pui/lic. His -
frietidftlip to that public he fiie\*», byzcvloosla h
on * bors to prostrate their wilhe* and atterapis to de- 1
fend thcmfelv.-s against certain ethers of his friend, Q
•on, who manifeft an overweening prcdile*slion for their
ved goods, lands, aud chattels. '
'cn, Such is the diiT-.-rciict and prac-
tics i and fueh is the tigur« those rauit ever make, a
refs wha ticli t» reconcile tltc lerritc ef God and Mam
hat raoti.
aty
en- Viscount Duncan has taken his feat ih the House
sis of Peets. The House of Lords and Commons
Ito paff«d a vote of thanks to him. The Emperor of
rce Russia, haj invefied him with theinfignia of the
be arder of Alexander.
i m . De Winter is very.politely treated; both him
ne_ felf and the other captured officers receive from the
eat firitifli government the fame pay as Britilh admi
) rals, doring their residence in England :He is not
to be exchanged : He will reside in the interior of c(
the country. p
Rear admiral Story, it is said, is arrested at the x
Hague. i c
ca General MaitlandTs appointed to command the [J
she British forces at St. Domingo. Generai Simcoe ~
Q f fuceeeds Prefcott, as goveracr general of the Bri
tish fettlementsin America.
EailFitzwilliam, in the British House of Lords, -
'"> endeavored to amend the late address to the King's 1
it fpcech ; but being urrfuceefsful, has entered a so- -L
;er lema protest against it. 6e
at Buonaparte expresses himfeif diffatisfied with the m
indiscriminate exile from France of the ei-devant w
as Noblesse. re
The idea of a Cit Rioian Republic, is said to be ed
abandoned ; as the territory is ceded to the French
d e by the treaties of Udina.
Antraigues, in whole fartfeuillt, were declared
be found, the papers which criminated Piche
gru, stc. fays ho never had such papers, and is _
- preparing a publication on the fubje&.
>m The £>utch government has published a very mi
lt; account of the defeat of their fleet, which L
w _ consists of the report of the, committee of marine
and a letter from rear admiral Story. It Hates,
the English fleet eonfifled of ad fail of the line,
US including fix 84's ; that 17 of the Dutch (hips kad
n- reached their ports since the adion .- That the de- a
| s< feat was simply owing to the- loose manner of the
fu Dutch Hiips forming the line,; and the ingenious
, manner in which admiral Duncan made the attack.
cn That rtar admiral flloishadlofl hisarm, asdidalfo
capt. Minx : That an English 84 had struck to a
Dutch 74 ■ but re-hoilttd her colours on another
ship of the line coming up to her affiftan'ce'; but CI;
the Dutchman perfevcring in her sire.'she was funk, vai
King George, embarkef in the Royal Yacht, in
'• order to proceed to the Note, to review Admiral
'' e Duncan's fleet, and the Dutch'prizes; but the next
lic day aftet failing a violent-storm obliged him to put
t back.
ne Diad, in London, 9th Nov. the veteran Dutch
t0 Admiral Reynties, in the 65th year\ of his age.
c '- He received a flight wound in the bottom of his
•° helly in the late engagement, but it is not fup
he posed that his jjealth was in the slightest degree
affefledby that accident. He died of an apo
(P ple<flicf complaint, to which fie had long been A
lc fuhjeiTl,and under which he laboured with par-
ticular severity during the last fortnight of his cr
ie life. The state of his health on his embarking 10 '
u "' on board the fleet in the Texel was such, that it
_ was deemed neceflary to appoint admiral Muni- '
er to aflift him in the aiftive department of Kis at .'^
ofSce. - dix
I^EGISL ATUK t, ot fENNSYLVANIA. j e^:
Oo the Bih inflant, petitioos were prefpnted from
le Upp«r Paxton, in Dauphin County,' praying for a
t ) changeof place tor the holding of their ele&ions, and "
- Q from ciiizensof Philadelphia, praying for an efficient l< > 1
law against usury. A report was made on the Health cart
taws ; on the petition of landholders 011 Gunner's is di
Creek -, 00 the petition of Benjamin Ellicott, which flru
II was favorable ;on the pelition from Lycoming and and
Luzerne, relative to an alteration of the lines of the S
y two counties—the report aoniemplates a change in
5. the boundaries ; and a»bill'of charges in tryiag the
.. elf&ion ot Mr. Boilesu, of no dollars, {5, cents,
was reported. A letter trom Samuel Bryan, contain
ing a (lalement of the finances of the Commonwealih
- (01 the last year, and one from Peter Baynton, Trea- Lj„,
furerof theSla'e, inclofiog a Hatement of his accounts t j, e
and praying to bere-cle£led, were read, A bill was • ,
h reported for the relief of David Jones, and the bill V
I supplementary to the sft extending the powersofjuf- tUat f
t tices of the peace, and thatfor appointing a truflec in P"
e the county of Mifflin, were agreed to. °* F
On the gth inllant, eight petitions were presented "
j from Chester and Delaware counties, praying that '
' the road from Fox's tavern to Weft Chester may be e< * e
" confirmed. Reports were made in favor of the pe- °f t'
II tition of the Ttuftecs of Lower Dublin Academy ; wari
» of the petition |of Upper Paxton Town ship ; and of Sclu
1 the petition from Upper Hauover To«iifhip. Peter attai
I Baynton was re-elefted Treafurcr. The report of ton*
1. the Committee on unfinifhed business was takenj up, °
» and the several fubjffls therein contained, tefeircd to -j
---• different committees. The House proceeded further p RU
in the ccnfideration ot the refolutioa to appoiot a .
> committeeon the fubjeftof continuing the law mak-
ing further compen'atipo to the Judges, but no quel- Ilfl
tioo was taken.
• Married, on.Saturday Jaft.by JacpbServofs,cfq. fa
- Mr.JOHNLA«CASriR,toMif»ELIZA Raxestkaw bt
. —both of the Northern I.ibertie*. i n
r . PRICE OF STOCKS.
> Philadelphia, January 16, 1707.
' si J Fcr Ceat - 16/9 to tod.
Three per Cant. to y 4 d .
Deferred 6 per Cent. I , 0( j
BANK United States, aa per cent.
aj p er ccnt .
North America, 45 per cent. »
lufuraneeCo.Pennfylvania, 5 to 6 per c:nt,
■——— N. A. 'hares 40 per ceat. nc
r * f/ ' ■ rf >*
GAZETTE- MJRI NE LIST
New-Turk, Jan. if,
V # ARRiVEO DAV>,
Ship Rajah, Scaton, £ianaburgh 70
6 U _ Sheperdlfs, , Savannah 11
Tiif. Brig Diadem, tjatnaica l"f
|,y Schr. Juliana, Rickn-y, C.N. Mols 29
Sally, St. Foi?-' St. Ctoix 1 5 N
h cn Hercules, Jogherc,forHain*
burg ; l»:igHumility, Groo«beck, Leghorn
brig Sally% Arnold, Martinique ; and fchr.
tain G <yy Hound, Clark, St, Thomas,
ra «f -he Djriiih Schooner Ferfllaw, tjeftarj
n so :rom St. Tltwmas to this port, is lolt oa
t.'>c Bamegat Shoals—Capt. and two hand#
' drowned,
the The Q'ip Rajah, Seton, from Hamburgh,
and 0 " the 27th Nov. in lat. 49, iy, long. 18
ml> weft) was boarded by a French privateer
*"■ of 12 guns, which plundered her of great
part of her provisions and boat, robbed the
rieir S a P f »i n of his watch and cloths, and 100
t |," e dollars in fpeci«, and abused and ill-treatefl
tori both him and the passengers, whom they
ll 'ir likewise robbed of their eibths. The French
"jr men oprnly declared that they were able to man
ito l ' le tbey would have made her a prize,
ape and taken .her into port. They had then on
not board part of a crew of an American (hip
iro * from Charleston, which they had taken fame
days before
aiq '
eii
by Boston, January 9.,
nly Among other artitle? on board the (hip
rW Crand Turk, are the following, viz.
717 whole chests Bphea tea ; 200 half
do. 400 quarter do; 321 Gdn Powder and
Hyson chests ; 665 Souchong do. do. 413
U half do. 772 chelis, tubs and bones China;
171 Rolls do. 236 bags Sugars ; 122 chests
Cafiia ; pieces Nankins ; 300 Hides}
1-1 11 boxes Indigo, Sec. Exclufivt of the
■tcr fuptrcargo's capt's, and n;any other private
,ke, adventures.
UU- I i : I - -
NEW-THEATRE.
ON WEDNESDAY EVENING,
"nj JANUARV 17,
r Will beprefented, the ce'ebrated Comedy of
the A Cure for the Heart Ache,
To which will be added,
THE PRIZE, or, a, 5, 3, g,
ni- The Subscriber
lot INFORMS thofi whom it may interest or con-t
°f eern, that the Judges of the Court of Common
Pleas have appointed Monday, the nineteenth d*y tf
the February next, to hear him and his Creditors, at the
Court-house in this city, on the fubje<st of hi» peti
'he tion for the benefit of the Insolvent Law,—aad.
; oe "that their attendance is desired.
Iri " JAMES GREENLEAF.
Pbilaieljbia, Jan. lb. dtl9thF
g\ \LL perfoni indebted to the cftite of Peter
so- xjL Gill, late of the Diftri<sl ofSouthwark, de-
Geafed, are requeued to make immediate pay
:he ment to either of the -Subscribers; and those
wt who have any demands against laid estate, ar«
requeued to bring in their accounts duly atteft
he ed to.
ch JOHN MURPHY, ~) v
PETER SCRAVENDYKE, {. txecu *
e<J THOMAS FARRELL, 3
Philad. Jan. 16, *»»W4w
18 11 t 1 ■■ .
,i. Doctor Rush's
Literary, Moral,.and Philosophical
«, Essays.
ic, (*Onr Vitwmd) OSiapo.)
ad This Day 15 Published,
£ By Thomas & Samuel F. Bradford' }
us No. 8, South Front Street,'
k ( Prict tivo Dollait,)
io EtTays. Literary, Moral and Philosophical,
a ) By Benjamin Rush, M. D.
er And ProfelToi of the Inftnutes of Medicine, and
ut Chemical Practice, in the Udiverfity of Pcnslyl
k. vania.
In the Preft,
a ' And fpeedilv will h* publifted,
l L t PERRIN's
Elements of French Conversation.
:h January 16 3 t co< J
'« Just received a Frejh Supply.
\ t Engllfh Grammar,
0- The fecoid edition, •with improvements,
"h A DAP TED to the different classes of learners;
r- f- Wlt h aa appendix, containing rules and ob
lervations for allifting the more advanced (ludents
to wi:te with perspicuity and accuracy
it By LINDLEY MURRAY.
1- " This is 3 publication of much merit, and fully
is answers the profeflions in the Title, Theappih
dix contains some of the best rules for writing e
egantly, and with propriety, that \ve recoiled to
have seen.'
a „ Monthly Review, July 1796.
d ft " Grammar 15, on many accounts entitled
, t to commendstory notice, its materials have been
, h Ca SI""X and j udicio "ly 1-leAed ; its arjangemcnt
'* dl 'j l . n<a well adapted ■to the" purpose of in-
I. ruiftion and its expression i, simple, perspicuous ,
a and accurate, Szcl" *
' See the charaSer at Urge in the Analytical
Kei-vw, July 1796.
English ]ycencifes,
- t Adapted to the Grammar lately publifted by
Lindley Murray, consisting of exemplification of
the parts of inftancesof falfe orthography,
] violations of the rules of fynrax, defers in punc
tuation, and violations of the rules refpe<!Un2
! P«ipKuity and accuracy, designed f»r the benefit
of private learners, a» well as for the'ufe of schools
I "W« have been much pleased with the perusal
t ot these Exercises. They occupy with distinguish
. Ed excellence a molt important place in the fcicncc
ot the Enghft language; and as I'uch, we can
; warm y recommend them to the Teachers of
: Schools, a* well as to all those v.tio are desirous of
attainms; corrednefs and precifiorf in their native
tongue.
' , Munthly Review, Jnh 1707.
The above Books are for sale at Jossph & Jamu
Ckukshanks book store, No. 8;, Market ftrect.'
. 3taw lW .
Imported (via New York) on the
fcip Hero, from aad Calcutta, and for
sale by the fubferiber, at No. 61, Chefnut street,
between Second ami TitirJiSyeets, the follow*
lag articles .
Maharagongf! Ch.rconna Dorsns
Chintz ancfCalicoes i-tacca worked niuflins
Gnus Ronuls 13 ; .:dmnoes
Nillas & Penfiafoes Ciiafla Romals
Blue cloth I'lair ribbon
MullMuHhanlicrchiefs paiempore.
Patna • Jo. Banjres Opium
Leltfr Cardimum Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox,
noveniber 17 .tuth> 4 *I mm** vmm f
PROPOSALS
» ri
FOR 1 V
CARRYING THE PUBLIC MAILS
on the following Pod Roails will be re- -j.
ceived at tLie General l'oft Olfice until
the 14th day of February next inclusive.
j:
PENNSYLVANIA,&c. u
I. From Philadelphia by Wilmingtm, Newcaf- #a
tie, Cantwell's bridge, Duck creek, tJover, i red
erica, Milford, doughs, Dagfbor. Trap,
Snowfiill, Hirntsrauand Accoinac court lioufe to
Nor-hampton court h»ufe three timcjfl week- , r l'
April 11-> Syvrmker 1} l»avc Philadelphia ev
ery Thoif'*ay and Saturday at M.aud r j,
nrrrive at Northampton r 'art house ou ThufJay, t9
Slturday iiidHonday a' 7; pll Returning. Leave § u
Northampton court house every Fiiby, Moivwy or
and Wedscflayjat 2a m, and arrive at Phil.idel- <j d
ph.aon Monday, Wednesday aid Friday by "J I-» )„
' KmmUrllh Afrit }• Leave Philadelphia ev
ery IWd y, Tkurfday and Saturday at 6 a m, an
and vriv-' at Northampton court house ou Friday,
Monday and Wednesday by rM. Returning— at
Leave Northampton court house every Saturday, .
Puc/day and Thursday at 6 am, and arrive at L(
il'li:U<klphi.\ on Wednesday, Friday and Monday )t
by 7 t m, i rr
VIRGINIA. i
4. From Northampton court house to Norfolk
thr«e tunes a prrek. Gt
April I t, Nnemier JJ. Leave Northampton t0
court house every Monday, Wednesday and Fri
day at 8 pm, and arrive at Norfolk in 24 hours. r j,
Jtetarvrg—Leave Norfolk every Wednesday, Frl
i}ay and Monday i 4 a m , and arrive at Northamp
toe court house in twenty four hour». 1 ry
I Nmmhtls to April I, Leave Northampt.* by
court house evcryTuafday, Tharfday and Saturday iu
at 3a m, and arrive at Norfolk in M hours. Re
tuning—Leave Norfolt every Monday, Wcdnef- I
day and Friday by 4 a M.and arrive at Northamp- , on
ton court house in 24 honrs. ;
I J I- NNSYLVANiA & MARYLAND- l a r
3. front Philadelphia by Wilmington, New- j n
port^Chriaijna,Middletown,Warwick andOKrge- al
tolvn crof**oadatoChellerfto«vnthre;;tiniMa week.
% May Ito November I. Leave Philadelphia every aQ
Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday by 9 cm, and«r
rive at Cheftei town the next days by 8 pm. R- jan
turning —Leave CbeftertowD every Monday, Wed- j R(
nefday and Friday by 9 ' and arrive at I hiia- no
delphia the next day« by 8 r m.
Nntmter Ito May I. Leave Philadelphia eve- U
ry Mo«day and Friday by y a m, and arriva at he
Cheftertown on Tuesday aud Saturday by 4 r m.
/returning—Leave Cheßertcwn every Monday and M
Friday by 8 am, and arrive at Philadelphia on A
Tuesday and Saturday by 4 Yi
MARYLAND. L<
From Cheftertown by Centerville, Eafton, at
Newmarket, Vienna, Salilbury.Snowhill andPrin- a t
cefa Ann to Salisbury once a week.
Receive the mail at Cheftertown every Wednef- ho
day at 7 am, arrive at Eafton by 4P M- Leav« ha
Eafton on Thursday .by 6a m, arrive at Snowhill La
on Friday by n. u, and at Princels Ann by f> r.
m. Returning—Leave Princeft Ann on Saturday by , r
10 am, arrive at Eafton the next day or Monday A
by 6p m Leave Eafton on Tuesday by Sa m, and er
arrive at Ch-ftertown fame day by 4 PM- nc
5. From Harlord by B. l-Air to the Black herfe
ou<;« a week. , ,
Leafre Hsrf»rd every Tuesday by 10 A m, and
arrive at Black horle by 6 p«m Returning—Leave an
Black horse on Wcdncfday by 6a m, and arrive at M .
FLirlord the next Tuesday by 9 a m. • it
PENNSYLVANIA, MARYLAND and VIR- <Ts
G7AI A.
6. From Baltimore by BUckhorfe toYorktown h<
Pa. onee a
Leave Unltin.ore every Friday by 4 ' m. arrive
at Bluckhoffe on Saturday by 10 a m, and arrive r j
at Yorktown by 8 rm. Returning—Leave York- L
town every Thursday by 7A », '"" rive at B<l ' Si
timore on Friday noon. L
r. From Yorktown by Hanover, Peterlburg, q
Taneyton and Frcdericktown to Lcelburg once a n
week.
l.eave Torktown every Monday at 8 a m,arrive g
at Frcdericktown on Tncfdayby jm, andarrive
at Leeftmrg on Wedncfday by 1r m. Returning—
LeaveLeeiburg«X.ery Friday at noon, andarrive
at Yorktown by 6 p m on Sunday.-
S. From Yorktown by Abbotftown.Gettjfburg, o
Fairfield, Elizabethtown, WilKamfport, Martins- h
hurig Winchelter, Stevenftrurg and Stralburg to o
Woodftock once a week.
I,cave Yorktown every Sunday by ffoon, arrive n
at Martinlburg »n Tuesday by II am. Leave C
Martiniburg onTu«fday noon andarrive at Wood- *
stock on Wedncfday by 6p h. Returning—Lave
Woodftock on Thursday by 6a m, arrive at Mar- j,
tinfcurg on Friday by II am, andarrive atYork- P
town on Sunday by 11 a m. H
0. From.Pittihurg by Cannonfturg, Walhing- 0
t ,f. Weft Liberty and Wheeling to (he mouth of
Fulling creek once a week (contraA Tor one year j (
only.) e
Leave Fittfburg every Friday at jam, and ar
rive tt Filbing creek ou Sunday at 9 a mi Return- }
ing— creek on Wednesday at 8 am, o
ani arrive at Pittfburgon Friday at 8 a m.
10. From WalbingtonbyßrownfviUeaodUnion
to Morgantown once a week.
Leave Union every Friday at 6 am, and arrive
atWafliington by 6p m. Leave Walhington on '
Saturday at 6a m, Arive at Morgantownon Sun- J
day at 6P M. Leave Morgantown on Monday at '
Sam, andarrive at Union by J P M.
11. From Baltimore by Frcdericktown, Eliza- a
bcthtown, GreAicaftle and Chamberfburg to bhip- '
penfb'urg once a week. !
Leave Baltimpre cver/Triday by 11 A M,arrive )
at Fredericktown on Saturday by 10 am, atKli- i
zabetluown in the evening, and at Shippenfcurg ]
ou Monday by 7' »• Returning— Leave Shippenf- ]
burg every Tutfday at 9 a m, arrive at Eliiabeth
t<Avn at Bpm, at FrtderUktown on Wednesday 1
noon, and at Baltimore on Thursday by J pa.
MARYLAND.
11. From Elizabethtown by Hancock and Old-
to Cumberland once a week.
LeaveCumbeiland every Saturday by 6 a M.and
arrive »t Elizahethtown on Monday by 8 a m.
Rrturning—Leave Elizabethtown every Monday by
10 am, and arrive'at Cumberland on Tuesday by
6 pm.
Leave Baltimore every Monday at 8 a m, and
arrive at Annapolis by 5 P •«. Returning—Leave
Annapolis every Tuesday at 8 a m, aud arrive at
Baltimore by 5 pm.
14. From Baltimore by A nnapolis, Queen Ann>,
Upper Mailborniigh.Pifc-itaway.PerttobaecQ, J
lensfrelh, Newport and Chaptico to Lconardtown
ante a week.
Leave Baltimore every Friday at to a m, arrive
-t Annapolis at ]t 1. Leave Annapolis tin Sa
turday at 6 A M, arrive at Upper
by noon,arrive at Pifcataw.iy by 6 r m. * arrive »t
J.eomrdtown every Monday forenoon by 90' dock.
Returning—LeiveLconardtownf very Monday at 3
p m, arrive at P.fcataway on Tuesday by 6* m
arrive at Upper Marlborough 011 Wednesday by
11 A ti, and arrive at Annapolis by 6 p si. Leave
Annapoli* on Thnrfday by 7 a m, and atrivc at
Baltimore by.iP si.
Ij. From An'i.ipoli* by Lower Marlborough,
I luntingtnn Calvert court Inufc to st. Leou
.irdt ohtvt a Week
Leave Annapoli« every <a'iirday at 9 a m, and
.itrivfcat St. Leonards «n Monday by 3p m. Jte
turntMgr-Leave St. Leonards every Mouday at 4
r m, and arrive at Anoapofis the next Satumay by
6 am.
16. From EladctJWuig by Ufptr Marlborough, 1
1 vl "v SIJ I
Not-in/him, LowcrMarPjoough, Acqu f.r,!3e« !
mdift 2fld Charlotteliall to C.iaprico once a svc?k aoj
Leave BladenOjurg cv.-ry Saturday at 9 a M,ar
ri. : at Upper Marborongb by fioonand at Lo-vef J.
Marlboroujjhon MortJayby 5 r m, 4. at Chaptico
by 0r m. Returning —J,'.*atcChapti'coevrry * hurl- <
day «6a m, aifl arrived BbJenfijur^ou Satur-
dj» at 6 a m. ]
17 Froii Georgetown by Montgomery court rrt ,
house to Fr.-dericktown once a week. p 0
Lkavs'Oc-irgeKwrn every Friday hy 6 a it, and
arrive at Fr-dericktowii by 6 pm. Ileiuming ,
l-eave F'tdericktown every Thursday Isy 5 am,
a.id arrive at Georgetown by 6 p m. c , c
VIRGINIA. da;
18. From Woo.iftock by Newmarket, Rockinf- \
ba-ii court h«*ife, St aunton, Lexington and Fine il- 1.1
tie tv Big Lirft ones a week. c * e
Leave Woodftock every Thursday '■ l y 6 am, ar- 5,
rive at Staunton on Friday at 1p «• l.eave 1 Statin- P
ton e*ery Friday at 2 pm. arrive at Big Lick on toS
Sundiy by 11 a m. Returning—Leave B:g I.ick
by Ip m, arrive at Staunton every Tuei- 1
day by Ham. Leave Stauntom by II o'clock Vt
)noon) and arriv# at Woodftock on Wedncfday by •• e
5 P m■.
19. From Big Lick by Mont ry court house
and.Wythe court houfa to Abingdon once a week. tur
Leave Big Lick every Sunday at I pm, arrive a,,<
at Wythe court house on TucfJay.by 1 p m, and at
Abingdon on Wedssefday by 4 r . Ret»ruing— (o
Leave Abingdon every by'6 am, artive .
at Wythe court house on Friday by a pm, and ar- (t
[ rive at Big LickonSunday by II a m. U)t
T£NNESS£E. o0
10. From Abingdon, Vir. by JcneflJorough ,
Greenville,Moffat's ftor« andJcffcrfou court houle t oi
to Knoxvijle once a week. r Hi
Leave Abingdo*every Thursday by 6a m, ar- mc
rive at Moffats (lore on Saturday by 8 a m. Leave
Moffats by 9a m , and arrive at KnoxvHle on Sun- riv
day by 10 a m. Returning—Leave Knoxville eve
ry Sunday by »p m, arrive at Moffats on Monday W;
by 3p m. Leava Moffats on Monday nt pm,
and arrive at Abingdon on Wednesday by 7 PM. Tlv
VIRGINIA.pPr' r
21, Fro»> Winchester by Romney to Moorfitlds
once a week. . q,
Leave W'ncheftet every Thursday at 6a m, and (q|
arrive at Moorfield»n Friday by 6 PM. Return-
ing—-Leave Moorfield every Saturday at 8 a M,and f rL
airiveat Winchester on Sunday by PM. w<
2». From Alexandria by Centerville, Leefburg
and Shepherdftown to Martinfburg once a week. \V
Leave Alexandria every Wednesday at 9a m, W
and arrive at Martinfburg on Friday by so am » P
; Returning—Leave Martinfburg every Friday by Cl
noon & arrive at Al«xaudriaon Monday by 7a m. Cl
83. From Freicrickfbburg by Port Royal, Lay- ®"
t»ns, Tappahannock, Urbanna and Gloucellcr qpurt ne
biouft tp Yorktown once a week. *
Leave Frederickfburg every Wednesday at 6 a
m, arrive at Tappahannock on Thursday by 11
am. Leave Tappahannock at noon and arrive Jt .
Yorktown on Saturday by ham. Returning—
Leave Yorktown every Saturday at 1 P M, arrive
at Tappahanr.ock the next Mondfy noon and arrive tn
at Frcdericklkurg onTuefdayhy 5 PM- L e
24. From Tappahannock by Richmond court
house, Weftmoreland court house, Kinfale, Farn- ■*
ham ehurch and Northumberland court house to foi
Lane: fter court house once a week- ut
Leave Tappahannock every Thursday noon and
arrive at Lancaster court house on Saturday by 11 riv
am: Returning—Leave Lancaster court house av- Sp
ery Saturday by 1 P M." and arrive at Tappahan- tiv
noak on Monday by 11 a m.
ij, From Frederickfburg by Culpeper court bo
house & Orange c. h. to CharTotUfvilleonce a week.
Leave Frederickfburg every Tuesday at 10 am, ""
and arrive at Gharlottefville on Thursday by 11 a 1
m. Returning—Leave Charlottcfville on Saturday TO
at 8 PM, and arrive »t Frederickfburg on T»cl-.
day by 6 a Mi
26. From Richmond by Goochland court- ar
house Columbia and Charlottefville to Staunton
once a week. ——— « '■ ' - r-i
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 1 r H, ar
rive at Charlottefville on Thursday by 11 AM. an
Leave Charlottefville by noon and arrive at ca
Staunton en Friday by 11 am. Returning— 11
Leave Staunton o* Saturday by 6 A M, arrive at
Charlottefville by 7 f m, and arrive at Rich-
mond the next Tuesday by 9 a m. at
47. Fr»m Staunton by Bath court-house anrl
Sweet Spring! to Greenbrier court-house once a t ,
week. ' t«
Leave Stiunton every Saturday at 6 a M,atid h<
arrive at Greenbrier court-house on Tuesday by
6 pm. Returning—Le*ve Greenbrier court- al
house every Monday by 9 am, and arrive at
Staunton on by 8 p m.
28. From'Charl«xttefviJe by Warren, War- C(
minster,- New-Market, Amhcrft court house, g ,
Cabellfburg, and Maddifon to Lynchburg once „
a week.
Lpave Charlottefville every Thursday at I T ai
M. and arrive at Lynchburg on Saturday at 6 '•
P M. Returning —Leave Lynohburg every a
Tuesday by 6 a m, and arrive at Charlottefville
on Thursday by 10 A M.
29. From Richmond by Hanovrrtown, Ay- g
letti and Todds to Tappahannock onee a week n
er if carried in ftagei as often as they /hall run. b
Leave Richmond every wednesday at j a m,
arrive at Toddi at 3 P m, and at Tappahannock
' on Thursday al 11 am. Returning—Leave 1<
f Tappahannock on Monday at 1 p m, and ar- v
rive at Richmond on Tuesday by 5 P M.
, 30. From Richmond by Hopkins's, Powlia- '
, tan court Koufe, Cumberland court houie, Prince {
Ed\»ard court house and Lynchburg to New-
London, once a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 8 A M, c
arrive at Prince Edward on Wednesday at 6 P c
. m, and arrive at Lynchburg on Friday at 8A M, si
and at New-London by 10 AM. Returning— b
: Leave New-London every Friday at vP M, ar- 0
- rive at Lynchburg by 5 p M, arrive at Prince
; Edward on Saturday by 7 pM, and afrrive at ®
- Richmond on Monday by 4 P M.
31. From New-London by Liberty to Fincaf- s
f tie once a week.
Leave New London every Friday at 1 f M, c
and arrive at Finca'ftle on Saturday by 6 p m.
* Returning—Leavt Fincaftle on Monday at 5 A t
M, and "irrive at New London.cn Tuesday noon. -
32. From Liberty by Rocky Mount to Mar- 1
'* tinville once in two weeks. 1 1
y Lfeave Liberty every other Saturday at 6 A
y M, and arrive at Martinville on<Sunday by 6 P
M. Leave Martinville on Monday by 6 AM, |
'j and arrive at Liberty on Tuesday by 6 pm. ,
e 33- From Prince Edward court house by *
lt Charlotte court house to Halifax court houle
ence a week.
, t Leave Prince Ed war ■'court hou fee very Thurf- •
|. day at 6A M, and arrive at Halifax court house '
n ®n Friday at 10 AM. Retursing—Leave Hal
ifax court house oin Friday by 2 PM, and ar. j
re rive at Prince Edward court.house on Saturday
1- by 6P M. I
h VIRGINIA aniNOK rh-CAROLINA.
it 34. From Hslifax v»rt-hoo(eby Halilsx oldtvwn,
i. Carteri, Mirtinvijltf Patri'-k coun-houfe, Upper Sau- 1
3 r», Germantnwn and BethaniatuSalem once in two ]
M weki. ,
v Leave Halifax court-house every other Friday at I
c f, fM, and auiviat Salem the next Monday b\ 6, )
lt P M. Returning—LcaveSilein every oilier Tuesday ;
at 6, A M, and aarive at Halifax couit-houlc on Frl-' ■,
day by 10, A M. j
' 55. Fiom Hiiris's by HicVet'sford to Halifax twice
a wok. *
, Leave Kirris's every Wednesday and Saturday by '
5, A M. and si rive at Halifax by 6, V M. Return- ®
—leav-Halilax evtry Thursday and Sunday by 6, f
1 A M, dud arrive at Hsrris's by 7, P. M. t
r VIRGINIA.
36. From Smithfield by South«mntc.n covtt-houfe '
, to Hickei's ford oace a « cek. ,
I 1
*
Ileave HicV ? '»brd
an 1 arrive at 3:nlthtield an Sunday by trm
Rs ,r^-I, m S«W on Monday by lay
j, a M, wdaniveat Hir" » '•" nk ,
2 > rM " 1 *V.l%,i,i„e.St. TWIIWV' 1 ! <* '
37. FromColdfooibv -r . *,.houlcs a nd Ed- i»a
Mecktenbcrg and Lu..c.bur K cou.l-Mum
mund« '\arAo Goldfon a ■si« ®*" ' A M.^nd
L«v c G,Mfo: (^v£ ry W eJ acW.v a.
return tt«c next Saturday by •• •
- A. M. at. W® Amnion by 6, V w, anaai c **
' '*
- M."'"lrnle 'at Plymejßlh on SaUudsy by 4
- PM.ii Sunday by 9, A M, audatiut
, fo!t <Jn Mo"d«y by 9. *M. ... . the
r NOR.TH-C AROtlh A- .
3 0. From Ed m t->nby
t Vin i«\ty v »i.d Juticlburg to I" IJ w
j j y
' V 'ti e *
. arrive at Ind<an-lown 011 Inuf a , Y
: „
to Edentun, onte a week. . .
- Lc'ivc Halifax every Monday at 9, A |M£ >£« _
'r. Eden/on on Weai.efday by 3, PM. HalfcUx
Loo.vfrednefd.yby6, P M, and arrive a. Hal-ax
op Saturday by 11. AM Wllliamf
' 4 r. From Halifax by Hofton, W.lUamJ
- ton and Daily's to Plymouth, once a week.
Halifax rrcry Monday" at... A Ply
- inouth on Weinclday by 10, A M. R * u ™' *
l Leave Plymouth ob Wedoerday at J, P«. .r-
- rite at Halifax on Friday at 10, A M. ...
4 J. From Halifax by Taiboro and Greenville to
, Walhingtononee a week. , Be
Leave Halifax every Monday at to, A M, C{
' rive at Wafoiugton on Wednesday by 10 A , M
turning-Leave W,!hing.»o» every Wednesday « ~
P M and arrive at Halifax on Friday at 10, A M.
43.' From Halifax by Wanenton. Williamlborough,
Oxford, HilUborougb, MartioviW, Salem, Lex>ng
-1 ton,SalilWy a*l Statefrille »o Charlotte and from Li
" Charlotte by Cabarras <!ourt-houle to Sahfcury, and
1 hom thence by the fame route to HaWax, once C<
5 W< Lcave Halifax every Monday at 9. AM, '"jf®-* C«
War >l.lOll by 7, PM > ,mv f " H ' l ' ° h u T
, WeJnefday i 4, V M. at Salem on Friday by 5, D
• PM, at SaldWv o« *> urday at 4, PM, and at sh
, Charlotte on Monday by 6, AM. Retnrnine— -leave
Charlotte on Monday at .0, A M, arrive at Stlffbury
. en Tpefday by 10, A M, arrive at baletn ,0n Wed- tQ
t nefdav at 9, AM, at Hilllborough on Friday by 9,
AM. at Wanemonon Saturday at 7, PM, and at _
Halifax an Monday at 6, AM 1 D—(V,n
u 44. Fiom Hillflwrough by Mount Tirzah, p " fon
' court-house, Lealturg, Cafwell cou.t-haufc and Roc
; kingham court-lioufe to Germantown once in two
' Leave Hilifborough every otherThurfday at 6, Ag,
c and arrive at Germantown on Saturday at 4, r. M- j\
Leave Germantown every other Sunday at o. A, M,
1 and arrjte at Hillfborough on Tuesday at 4, PM.
45. Fmm Salem by Beihania, Hantfvillt, Rx>ch
-0 ford, Wilkre, Morgatiton and Ratherfordton to Spar
tanburg in S. C. once intwo w-ek». T
1 Leave SaJem eveiy other Saturday at 5a m, and ar- J[
1 rive at Spartanburg on Wednesday at jr m. Leave a]
- Spartanburg every other Thursday at 7A u, and ar- p
rive ait Salem the next Moncjay at 6 rm.
46. F;om Louilburg by Nalh court.houle to Tar-
I borough onie a wtek. jtl
Leave T*boroß«h-avery Friday by 6 * m, and ar
riveat Louilburg by 6 pm. Jttturnmg—
- 4' burg every Saturday by 6a m, and arrive at Tarbo-
by 6 r m, 0
' 47. From ttaleigh by Smithficlfc Waynefboeo.gh, re
and Kingfto»«u (Ifwbem, once intwo weekj. ti
Leave Rakigh every other Tuesday by 8 a m, and
arrive at Newbern the next Friday by 10 a to* cl
n Returning—Leave Newbern every other Friday by 2
r«r f «mi «r.i»e « R»brigb OTrMOTdoy Lf>' C ' <*■ ,
48. From Raleigh by ChapelhiU to Hilllborough, v
I. and from Hilllbotough by Chapel hill and Chatham
it court-house to Raleigh, once a weak, lo wait two
_ hour* at Chaiham court-house.
lt Leave Raleigh every Tuesday by 6a m, and ar. a
rive at HiUfborough by 6 r M. R<Ur*ing— Leave t!
Hillfborougb every Wodnefday by 8A M, and arrive 1.
at Raleigh on Thursday by 10 A M»
4 q, From fayettevilk by Elizabethtown, Bellefort
» and Springfield to Wilmington, and from Wilming
ton bv S. Wafainglon, Saiefio and Sampson eourt
d house to Tayetteville, oncej week,
y Leave Fayettevilfc every Tuesday at 6a m, and
[ _ arriveat Wilmingion on Thursday at loa. m. Re
t turning—Leave Wiimmgton every Thursday t 4 am,
and arrive at Fayetteville 011 Sunday by 5 ? m.
jo. From Fayetteville by Alfordton and Randolph
r * court-houfeto Salisbury, and from Salilbury by Mont
c» gemery court-house, Anfon court-h.ufc and Rich- 1
:e mond court-house to Fayetteville, once a week. J
Leive Fayetteville every Saturday at 6 a m, and r
T arrive at Salisbury on Tuesday by 9a m, Leave Sa
-6 lHbury every Tuesday no.n and arrive at Fayetteville j
r y on Friday by 6f m •
ly 51. From Newbern by Trenton and Richland to
Wilmington once • week.
Leave Newbern every Friday at 10 a m, and arrive
y- .t'Wilmington on Sunday by 6P. «. Leave Wjl
mington every Tuesday at 10 am, aad arrive at New
n - bem on Thursday by 6f m.
m, SOUTH NORTH CAROLINA.
:k {». From Camden by Lancalter cOurt-houle, Char
ve lotle and Lmcolnton to Starefville, once in two
ir- week#.
Leave Camdyl every other Monday at € a u, ar-
4 _ rive at Statcfville on Thursday by 6r m. Leave Statcf
,£ vill« every other Friday by 2v m, and arrive at Cam
den on Monday by 6 r. m .
w " SOUTH-CAROLINA,
53. .Frpm Ootombia by Chnfter
M ' court-house', , Pincluieyville, and
P Greenville court-houle ■to Piikenfvillc, and
M, from Ptckenfvillc by Lavreni court-house a»d New
- bury court-house to Columbia, once a week : lyaiung
ir- oue hour at each poft-office on the ruute.
of Leave Columbia every Monday at 9a m, arrive at
Spartanburg every Wednesday by j) r m, arrive at
Pickenfville on Thursday at 4 p m, arrive at Laure*t
C court-house on Friday at 4p m, and at Columbia on
' " Sunday by 6p m.
54. From Columbia by Orangeburg 10 Chaileftan,
M > once a week.
M. Leave Columbia every Monday at 10 a m and ar- 1
A rive at Charleston on Tkurfday at 10 am. Returning
)n. —Leave Chjrlellon every Thursday at tr M, and ar- 1
lr . rive at Columbia on Sunday at noon. i
SOUTH-CAROLINA & GEORGIA.
jl 55* From Edgefield court-house by Cambridge,
Abbeville court-house, Pendleton court-house, Hai
' tonsford, Franklin court-house, Eiberton and Peters
' burg to Wafhinjton, and from Washington by Pe
tersburg a*d Cambridge to Kdgrbeid couit-houfe,
by onceaweekt
ule Leave Edgefield court-house every Friday byß am,
arrive at Pe.dleton court-house on Sunday by 9 am
lr f. arrive at Franklm couit-houlc by 7pm, at PcterlWg
u s e 011 Tuesday by to am, and at Washington by* t
al- M " Leave Wartiwigton every Wednesday at 6 A m,
ar _ at nn 1 burfday by 10 Am, and at Edgc
* field cnuri-boufe by 7p m.
y s*> From Augulla by Waftiingion, Greenlburg an d
Lexington toCieoigetown, once a week.
Uavc every Woiiflay *■ 3 r m, arrive al
»n, WifhifljUß uy 5 p m, and wrive- at
au- Georgetown op Tburfdav by 7 r m. Reluming
»o Leave Georgetown every Friday at 6a m, audanive
at Auguftz by noon on Monday
r " O 57. From Gwdciu Corner to Beaufort once a week.
6, Leave Beaufort)every Thursday itsrti, and arriye
Ja a: Gaidens Corner by 8p M. Returning—Leave Gar.
n- dens Corner every Thursday at s a m, and arrive at
Beaufort by 10 a. m.
N;tt I. tie Fuji MeJUr General may alter th. time'
by '/ "irrual auJ departure a! any time during tbe'eontinuanet
rn- if the contract he frevioujly fiipulating an adequate cam
' 6, f*r any that may leocca/ientdibtTe
b , "
Note J. Half an tour /ball be allnued Jer opening
use 'nd J«yimtr tit M.l)lut all affi. ei vtlere nt particular tine
»j jQterijud.
m S
No((! fer ervt, accUrt,
' 4 -
c
a trip, an adMticnal forfeiture <•/fit" do lors /hall die O
'"S?4 ' Nevfpaper, a. Lef er, are to be sent ,< ,
in ti, 'Mail' ; ond f an, f erfon mat.ng '
to other than ticfe conveyed ,n
Vr ZLn he mutate in bis pr+fal< for
Lhat fun be -trill earr] it with that emolument and for
ii bat sum without that emolument. f
Notes. any per fan mating pr,p?fjh <¥ r ' '
alteration of the time, of arrival and departure ff" .
' afied, hemuft tote in hu t-fofuU \tz alter.!,on, de.red
1 an I tbe difference tbey nuill make m thr terms of bl* (-in~ of
1 ' 1
' tr ''tide 6. Pnji»s malin. proposals are defi red t. fate p4l
tbeir prices in jrrfs by the year, and,,,; by tie■ml,, ga,
' the!t /" y VnZ r L y 'Z $
the mm*, .f April, faty and OJloher, M ,
draft, on the fofl offices en the r*+e and V- ia*t notes. jef
| . Note 7 The contract, are to h, ,n operafon on the frl t er
dai of April next, and continue for four years, una mi
the yjl day of March inclufve, in th, year 1801. tha
| JOSEPH HABERSHAM, of
Pod- Master General. wi ;
Gsnhial Post Office, ") ca
Pb,ladelphia, Decrnber jg, 1 7971 ■> toth&;t , 4th p -
" JUST RECEIVED,
(via New-York)
AND NOW OPENING, BY TJ
George Dobson, Nc
An extensive and general ail'ortment of Ne
HABERDASHERY, viz.
Bed London milt Pins Galloons and Ferrets
; Common do. do. Worded Bindings, affor-
Makenrie'sfupcr,patent ted colours
white chapel N< edies Imperial, dnper, and c f
' Nuns Thr«ad no. 6to Thread Tapes
40, reedlariy assorted White Edg.ngi. ,iV
1 Lifie do.llo. 130 to 500, BUck irid'colonred Chr- so]
1 regularly assorted nefe Ribbands ,
. Coloured do. Sattin and figured do.
Black sewing Silks Black Velvet, Xr4 to I id
1 Coloured do and Twist Velvet & pelon SatttTO
1 Silk and cottoa Wires • French Cambrick 1'
• Do. d.. Ribbands Scotch do. ot
' Shirt Monlds and Wires Pl*n gilt and ptattd tio
: Black brush Feathers Buttons Ai
f And a compleat aflortment of G«ods, luitable Pt
■ to the prelent and approaching feafun, at reduced f by
; prices _Ucc. 6. . '*f ye
Tin Plates, £
FOR SALE BY C;
' SIMON WALKER, _
* Pine, Bear Fifth ftre«t.
• Mujical Instrument Manufactory,
' 167, Arcfr-ftreet.
TO lovers of harmony. a
hamper,
INFORMS his friends and the public', that he has
now ready for sale, & few of his new invented, A
e and much admired Piano Fortes, with jj (
Pedals,patent swell, fonopahant and French harp jj
stop, which for sensibility of touch, brilliancy of
tone, simplicity and durability of conftru6tion, the O
faperiority of whichjie flattersJiimfelC, a single t*i
. al will convince the nuprr-judiced judge—A' they
are manufactured under h|s immediate ißfpeifion, q
of the very brx seasoned materials, he oan fell pn q
I, reasonable terms for Cash. Jnftruments repaired,
tuned, &c. p,
1 N. B- Second h*nd Pi»»e Fortes in. cx-_ c ,
. change for new.
2 n, vernier 18. HWlmo.
Samuel & Micrs Fiftier, %
0 ARE NOW OPEHING, R
At their Warehouse, No. 17, Dock Street, a frefh C
r. aflortment of Woolen and other goods, suitable to L
re the season, seceived by the laite arrivals from Eng- N
re, land. A
They have afo far Sale, C
rt Lisbon A
t- Sherryfand tn ?ipn,hhds. and quarter caflcs- _
Port Wines, J
Assorted cjueen's ware in crates, See. A
e " lotli mo* aid. diwjtaw.^w.
VI) .i 1 ■ 11 > ■ 1■ 1 .1 11 1 1 ■ ■■ 1 ■
Samuel Pleafants bf Sons, f
No. 74, South Second-Jireet, c(
h- TTAVEreceived a supply of SeafornibU GOODS, l |
il which they are now opening for (ale, on
id reasonable terms. OS 17. —4W L
f6r"sale, ' ~ p
le SrteS [issCßiacß, at h'» Store, No. 75, South j
[Q Water-street, aj
A general aflortment of China
\ e Ware
Black and coloured Sattirs
Do. do. Lwtcftrir.gs
Do. d«N Handkerchiefs *
Do. do. fewingJSilks
lijperial and Hyson Tea 6 * ■-*
Long and short Nankeens
r _ Silver, in tubs 0
■f. Holland Gin, in pipes > a
n- Afforreu Glass Ware, in cases
White and browu Havanua S»gars, in boxes
Molasses, in hogfhe<Lds *
er " Leui* twi vndl Sugar, in do. '' -
id London particular Madeira Wine
id Sherry and Malaga Wiuel, in quarttr calks
v- Red, yellow and pale Barks, in ehdls
"E Logwood, &c. &c. '
( »«. 7.—tu&f 4 w JOSEPH SIMS.
« Frefli Raisins.
on I
>n » A Sinai! eafgo just arrived, and now landing
IjL at Chefnutftrect wharf, from the sloop Ya
ar- rico, capt. Haflccll, confiding of Kegs, Boxes and
ng Jar*. A few Jars of excellent Grapes, and sacks
ar- of foft (helled Almonds. to the Mailer
on board, or to 1
"Jos. Anthony & Co.
j t '_ December 19 §<t j
Alphabetical Lift of Duties, '
f Ci Payable by law on all Goods, Wares, and Mer- (
chandize, imported into the United States—latcil ,
edition, to be fold by JOHN ORMROD, no. 41,
m Chvfnut-Rreet. Dec j6—d (
Ir p g 1 his Day is fublilhecj, l
' M) BY MelT. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Ric t and the 1
c _ other Bookfellcrs,
Pricr One Dollar sn«i tventy-fivc cents, J
nd F.lcgarit'y printed on Wuve paper 9 and Hot '
prefer!,
'■ ll Bv John 'I hompfoa,
A COMPARitIVt VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with each other,"and with
i ye that Us the United States:. exhibiting in Tables,
ar . the prominent features of each eonft:tution,'and
: a [ classing together their most itnpertant provitions,
under the several heads of admmiitration ; with
® Notes ardObfervations.
Uy WILLIAM SMITBJ,
,»• , Of South-Caroline,
rre- L L. D. and member of the Congress of the
United States.
ing Dedicated to the People of the United States..
ime N. B. A few Copies prints! on an inferior pa>
per, at 3*4thsof a dollar.
Jl,
#
This Day Published,
And to-bc fold by WILLIAM YOUNO, earner,
Second md Chefnut streets
Price 3-8/ir of a Dollar, '
Observations on certain Documents
Contained in No. V and VI of
« The History of the United States f or
the yeaT 1796,"
In which the ckakgi of speculation air», t(
ALEXANDER HAMILTON
Late Secretary of the Treasury, it Flir r v
' . REFUTED. 1 'UL.LY
rrlr ren ar atu ,g L
This publication presents a concise
of the base means pracSifad by th» Jacobins of rt!
United States to asperse the chapiters of rk n r
persons who are confuleredas hoflile tothWtrfr
ganizing schemes. It alio contains the tor"
refpondepce between Mr. Hamilton and Messrs"
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venable, on the fuh'
jeA «f the documents aforefalH.and atferiet of let"
ters from James Reynolds and bis wife toMr Ha"
mUton, proving beyond the poflihility of a doubt"
that the connexion between him and Reynold."
was the result of a daring conspiracy on the pari
of the latter and Ins associates to extort nionev
£#■ A difcoum'of one third from the retail price
w.ll be made in favor ol wholesale purchasers for
cash. Orders <0 be addressed to Mr Youno'
Yellow Fever and Pestilential
Diseases.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, in one vol. oflaro
By William Young, Bookfellcr,
No. 51, Second ftraet, the corner of Chefnut It rest
(Price, in boards > J;i j Cents)
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium •
Paper,
A VIEW
Of the Science of Life ;
On the priiicipUseftablifted in th« elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN.M.D.
in artrmpl fminiwpwn,)
rors of that work, and cases in illustration, chief
ly feleifled from the records ef their prattler, » t
the General Hospital at Calcutta, *
Br William Tate? & Chas. Mkclian.
To which is subjoined, a Treatire on the a&i on
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its app!i el .
tion for the cure of diseases of indireA debility <C
Andadiflertation on the Jmirce 1 # of
Peftilentialdifeafes; in wtiWiisittemptedioprove'
I by a numerous indu&ion of fafls, that thty ne
ver arise from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain slates, or certain vicifiitudes of
the atmosphere, by Chari.es Maclian, 0 f
Calcutta.
Nov. »s. f Jlt
FOR SALE, Br
Joseph Anthony £ff Co.
No. 5, Chefnut Street, t
A cargo of choice Bourdeauxßra»dy, ift andjd
proof,- just landed
150 bales of Bourbon cotton of afupcrior quality
' 9 do. Surat, do do »
' A quantity of heavy black pepper in bales
Bourbon Indigo of the firft quality
High proof Jamaica lpirits
Old London particular Madeira wine ? In pipes &
do. market do (. <jr. calks.
New England rum in hogiheads
' Genuine Holland Gin ir. pipes
1 Claret in cases '
' Spermaceti candles and llrain'd oil >
Prime Boston beef
ehoicr*aKf»x Salmon ia barrels and half barrels
Do. Herring in ido * do
_ Best Boston Mackarci irrtirfmU vt iliei&tltsrt.
New-England tqjv l : «en
) A few tons of Ruflia cordage
Rulfia feather beds'
h. Clover 1 and Timothy feed in jafks
a Long whalp-bsne
» No 1, 1, and 3, Boston fail duck
A few chests fir It quality Hyson tea
Carolina rice in whole anil half tierces and
An invoice of Dutch hollow ghfs ware.
November 8. * diw.
This day is Published,
At thc-Aurora, N®. 112, Market Street
[Price one dollar afid a half,]
A view of tbecondutt of the EXECUTIVEirrtfc
FOREIGN AFFAIRS of tHe United Statss, connefi
ed with the Miflion to the French Republic
v the years, 1794, 5, 6,
£ By JAMES MONROE,
Late Mia>fter Plenipotentiary to the laid Republh
liluftrated by his INSTRUQTIONS aud COK
RESPONDENCE and other authentic documents
h A very liberal allowance to those who briy t« ft
again.
School Books and Stationary.
W. YOUNC,
No. Second-street, corner of Chefnut-ftre<
HAS now ready for sale, a very large iflor
ineilt ef Englifi, French, Latin tnd Gri
' .SCHOOL BOOKS. Alft, such elementary boo!
on Science, as are generally read in the academi
and colleges throughout tha United States.
% LAT ELY rv BLiSHrD,
s}ieridan's Didlionary, the filth edition, in ol«
large vol. 8 vo price J dols.
Ditt»,-l»'g<r- >* w* 1 75 * ,s -
Ditto, common, price I dol. 59cts.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, ar
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Paftthoards
iheathing and blotting Papers; printed Blank ,
blank Books, Wax, WSfers, and other articles, <
the best quality, used in tke counting house, (
public office.
Catalogues of a miscellaneous colleilion
BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be ha
•by inquiring as above. OA. 24- 1 32*'^*"
f. LAW tjbOQKS,
Latcft London and Dublin Editions.
" H. yP. RICE, Booksellers,
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market ftree
HAVE jutt received by the Ute arrivals fror
London and Dublin, theii spring import!
tion, confillingof a variety of the lat»fl and mo
approved Uw Books, which,added to tho -; alrr:
dy on hand, forms the mofteiteafive collcdion e\
er offered for fa'e in this country. They thfi dor
:ft beg leaveto notice, that (rom the nature tff the.
'• conneaiensin Dublin, they are f nat>kd to ielHrtf
eilitions (as the)»have hitherto done) at w" r
low eft prices. The following are-amor.g the -ate
hr puWicu-tions. - .
Vefey, jun'rs Reports iu Chancery, 2 »"•
PeaUe's Cases'« Nisi Pr.m ; Ridgeyvay s
~ m t|.e time of Lord H»rdw«k*; ro f t '
r-radice in the Ecclrfiallical Coow i Bartw
Treatise on a Suit in Eyuity 1 Kid *
the Court of King's Seech'in Perfend
parts
bn Uses; modern Reports, l» vols. London ed
ith ''"j".' a „ d p Ricl cxpeA Ift receive by the fr# ai
«. rival' from New-Vork the 6th val.completet
nd Durnfordand East's Reports, the id part ot Gi
n! ' bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, anda number
new publications.
June a 6. 1-
Wanted, to Hire,
y, \ Large and convenient HOUSE, in or oca
hC A the centre of the city-for which a generou
, rent will be given; to be taken io*Q jr«*. * *
Z wore for a longer tcr.7l. of the Pr.nter.
OS.