AN ' D P*hiltidelphia Jbfiily Advertiser;
A*UMD.ES I 860. J
%* The price'of this Gazette is eight
Dollars a rear. —Subscribers iulxi rejide at
a dijlance from the place of publication, and
tchofe papers are sent per pojl, pay fix
month's fubferiptien in advance, and one
dollar - '..umlijtfor enckftng and directing
their papers. The payments to be always
fix months in advance.
For Sale.
r TPHE Si'BScrijser, intending to decline the
£ DRCO BUSINESS, offers For Sale, the
whole S-oclt of
Drn-rs and Med'.cines, Instruments, &c.
Thihop is elegant commodious, >mi fuiTici
cntly known for th? ejetenfive biifiitcfs t one in the
v. hoi-, sale r.n 1 retail line ; the titiiaciou equal to
any in the city, being c >1 ncr of Walnut and
Second ftrct-'s. '.'he wlvolc. or any par', of the
Stock, will hefoM, as will licll fuitthe purc!iafer.
Xhi.-terms mav he kno'-vn, l>y Epr-yiTg to
JAMES (VtOOitE, jun.
Who has For Sa'c,
Hi-JP
w cli calculated for the river trade—
The Peggy, about 3otonsburthen,
Mulberry and Wed Ced r frame, and reraal'icably
fto!it,-o/ an easy draught of water, r'ggiug in
j;ood or-.'er.
" The Sally, about 30 tons, fails,
well, an! in complete order for the lumber bufißel's.
tf'y All petfons indebted tp the late firm of
thwait Of Muore, or the fubferi ,r, are earnestly
vequcfled to make lpeedy uayxi- nt to
JAMES IvIOORE, jun.
august §
Shio ts 5 Insurance Broker,
r ;lucfcriber, encouraged by the advice
X 0/ his lriends, offers his fcrvice to the pub
lic a3 a Ship ind Insurance Broker. Us pro
poles to by and feii vessels and every thing re
lating thereto —assist matters of veficls and others
in entering and eiearin j at the Cullom House,
procuring(hipping freight, fettling Insur
ance and ill other mercantile accounts, and have
on hand the neceflary Blanks and Stamps. .
• Papers in foreign languages translated, and
information given in general mercantile matters
—From a knowledge gained by long experience
of everv hiancli ot bufmefs he hopes to be ufe
ful to t'tiofe who please to favor him with their
commands. S AfriUEL JIMERX*.
Philadelphia, august 24th, i?sß. §
FOR SALE,
For Sale,at the Stores of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
10? calks of nails afiorted
30 bales of fail canvass, from No. 1 to 8
5 3 caflvs yeU w ochre 1
1 5 fierce-* hottled porter, 6 to 14 doz. each
London particular ) Madeira wines
Incjra-mirkrt )
Tenenffedo. in hoglheadsand pip
Old Port rfo. in h'uds.
Empty Claret bottles
6 oaf i of Ginghams, Dimities, Miiflinetj&c.
aiTorted for the eft-India markai
4, 10, andp iivrh cahlesand to coils of cordage
Writing fiates, ink Hands and presses
20 purche.ms Jamaica runi
I bale Teaming twine
160 bundles (heathills paper
Nicklin y Griffith.
3r . r ;i 7 tuth&f.tf
S T A M P S.
W. G R IF F IT HS,
BOOKSELLER & STATIONER,
BEGS leave to inform Inch persOns in the foutk
-rn part of t le city (who may find it incon
venient to go farther up for their (lamps) that at
his ,Hor , No. 177, South Second, near pruce
ilreet, he has a generallupply for distribution
He has juftr c ivedfrom London, by the way
of New York, an elegant affortinent of Morocco
•Articles viz irnvdline, dreflipg, writing and
drcffii g v'.-.fes, with InftrumcntK very complete ;
l'ockc t Books ; Etwees ; Thread Cases, Furies,
Sat. in the gr'eatefr v ariety and bell manufacture.
Likiiviti on band— Ch»rin of every part of the.
A merican Coalt; Pripcs framed and glazed, Draw
ing Books and Portable Delbs, which, with his
uUial.Sock, W. G. hopes w.li not fee unworthy
the atßntion cf ladiiscr gentlemen who make use
of fu .h goods.
A number of linall Dutch RIFLES, cheap
july 30 »"?»■
Madeira Wine.
A few tipesolrtmatkablv fine MADEIRA WIKE
fii for immediateufc, and at a rrduod piitc—Fol
sale bv J -MI'S \ tVRD
•illy " lf
- bluniKi a gentleman, a na
tive of TeiKfitle, who haj bien khown in Ameiica by
jiove ot Lew is C/e\el ac o■'c t mc, and at
another by thai of Lev. is Cc el P. iliicr, be alive, and
will apply w J:ines liariy, ol Baltimore, he will
he-u c't'fomribiug hig'Jfy to his ioterell. Or [hould
<he he defeated, say peilon who will ->ddiel* aeem
pirate of his de.u piooerly authenticated, will be ie
'.»ardfd with twenty dollars, by applvitig a, above.
Mr Prlliler is tuppoled 10 be some wheic in the (late
of Maffachufetis,
augull 1.
Baikenridge—f or sale
S"T ronlills of 9JO acres, slmoft all ol which is
.1 a £ne rich Meadow, (the refuieiiceof tie late
"Hurl of St rling). It may be conveniently disided
into five laru-S, four ot whi;h are bounded on the
Ein hy tberivejrl'slVick.
Tb.rf are 011 ita nuaah<r of buildings, forming
afquare of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
; conveiiicdtpue and> fmallexpence would
put ir 'is repair.
The' -vi.jiJ com lifts of • 150© fin»beariug«ngral
ed -*.| •>!'; r"Tccs —and there is on other partsolCaid
aa . L near 3qp other Apple Trees—as alio a great
variety of other fruit, particularly Cherries of the
belt and «>»« delicious kinds.
Alto, a gtcr:t number of beautiful Exotics and
ForcftTi-e - , that add to ths and conveni
ence f f the pla;e Its Situation abeut 18 miles
from the towns ol T.'ewaik. and Elizabeth ■■ 10 do.
;:«m Mori is-Town-, and 12 from Springfield—lt
15 woed.'.l and watered.
to lave trouble, the price is Ave pound pr. acre
:n cafu, on-Jeli'try ol the deed-. Please to *n
juircof r. McMT'JEiri &~Co.
Mo. ;8, Ciiqfnut troct.
t'jtuary eodif
PHILADELPHIA: TUESDAY EVENING, AUGUST 28, 1798.
\ FOREIGNERS
MAY, by virtue of an ail pasTed at November
fefliori 1791, hold by deed, or by will, lanri*
in that part of Maryland called the diftridi of Co
lumbia ; aDd the fame may be transmitted to, and
inherited hy their heira, icc.as il they were citi
zen?.
Within thi diftridl of Columbia, upon the eas
tern branch of Potomacfc. opprfite squares No.
1124, and ri.;i in the city Washington, are 360 a
cresof referred wood land For sale. Its ad v ant a
ges arc numerous, poffefiing three or four elegant
heights, many fine springs, and an abundaßcs ot
timber, principally white oaks. For a dock or
ihip yard, no position can boast of equal benefits,
having two coven, wich narroxv entrances, from
which at an cafy expence, tide water might be
excluded, and docks funk, large enough to re
ceive vessels of any fixe.
Wilhing to retain an interest in the property, I
would prefer felling an undivided half cr three
eights. GEORGE FRENCH.
For terms apply to Mr. "Charles Minifee,Union
street, Philadelphia, or Mr. Robert Walfh, Balti
more. Tuly 2.3. *a\v'w.
To be Let,
An airy three Story Brick House,
ON the.South fide of Filbert Street, between
Eighth *nd Ninth street, formerly occupied
as the Surveyor General's Ortiee*—Enquire at No.
i j 1, Chefnut Street,
anguft ro cofr
Boiton Gl .fs,
"T"HE Company now engaged in carrying an
I the Glass Minufadory, with pleasure a.Jure
public, they have at length brought the buii
nefs into a situation that will allow them to promise
d firicl punctuality in the execution of all orders,
and a fuperioricy in the glass they inauuia&ure to
*ny imported.
Fhcir -\of«nts, Maffr-, JOSEPH / . fl« Md
Co. of Philadelphia, will receive and transmit to
the Company, orders from any part of the South
ern States, and will contra A for the (delivery of
the Glass, on terms as reasonable as cofld be pro
cured from the Company themfel\es.
letter? and orders di reeled to Chartt F. Kupfer,
at the works inßofton, lhall meet thtftridlefc at
tention.
N. 13. They cut of any size from 6by 8 to 18
by 24 inches.
jnly 27 j aaw^m
" N O T 1 C E.j
T 7T TtiEREAS itiscnaded by the 7\h fedlion of
V V "an adl to augment the army «f the Unit
ed States and for other purposes," the 16th
of July, 1798, That the President of the United
States be, and he hereby is authorised tc appoint a
number not exceeding four, t :achers as the arts
and sciences necessary for the of the
artillerists and engineers, wh© (hall be <ntitled to
the monthly pay of fifty dollars, and tvo rations
per day,
NOTICE IS THEREFORE GIVEN to those
gentlemen who are qualified and defirou* to engage
as teachers upon the terms expreflfed il the said
ail, of the iciences neceflary to the artillerists and
engineers, to forward their applications and
mepdatiocis to the lecretary for the department of
war.
The sciences most neceflary to the artillerists and
engineer*., are the feverM branches of the mathe
matics, particularly gunnery,fortification,hydrau
lics, hydroitakes, and the calculations of mafonr}',
timber, &c. «ilfo miueralogy, military architec
ture and designing.
JAMES M'HENRY,
Secretary of War.
July 3T. d^w
TO HE LET, j*
And immediate possession given ;
A Large cbnvenk-nt, well finifhed house, No
235 High-ftreei, lately occupied by Doc
tor Wiltar, wi:h Cojch houlc and 'Stables
Enquire of WILLIAM SHEAFF,
Xo 168, High-Jlreet■
j"ly ?r . §.
FOR SALE, *y
John Miller, Jun.
NO. 8, CHEJNUT STREET,
ioo hogflieads RUM,
Of high proof aud fine flavour
juiy r 9 ?
Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries,
of the newest and most approved patterns,entitled
to the drawback, just received,
AN® FOR SALE BY
Alex. J. Miller Iff Co.
No. 64, South Front ftf.eet.
may 18
OX BEEF.
100 Barrels of Bjef of best quality, put
jo half fiarrels ) »'p "'ith carefnr long voyages.
100 Barrels of Conneilicut Pork.
50 Barrels of Cotrnedlieut Tongues.
W.INE S.
,35 Pipes of Madeira Win*
30 Pipes of Tort
30 half calks of Sherry
30 Calks of Lilbon
300 Cases of French Claret, of excelleot
quality.
809 Barrels of Scraped FLOUR,
100 Barrels of Condemned, and
so Boxes of best Durham Milliard.
For Sale by
John Skyrin,
Landenberger's Wharf .
may e eodtf
Just Received and for fule by
WILLIAM TO UN G,
Corner of Second and Chefnut Street—and at the
Olliceof the Ed tor,price 3 l6ths of adollar,
AN ORATION,
Spoken at Hartford, oil the umiverfary of Inde
pendence, Tuly 4, i.798.
Bv THEODORE DWIQHT/
FOR SALE, <
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, Ac. fnuatron
Water street, between Mulberry and Safiafras
Street?, containing in front 011 Water street fii
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth eaft
vvard ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houles
have the conyenicrce of a puhl'c alley adjoin
ing on the north l'ide, and area very Jtlirable si
,tuation foi a a merchant, Hour favflor; or other
who may have oceafion for ilorage of goods.
This property will be Uwi on very reafoiuble
lerms for ram. For -irther intdJ.mai ioij apply
printer, apvil 5 ' ..niXwtt
by John Fenno, i\ ! ° 119 Chefnuf Street.
Weft-Indian from Madeira.
1 liofe Gentlcmea who have Wines
011 board the V\'e!i-Indian are informed Ihe is
now (iilchafging ,'t South-flreer Wharf, are fu
licited to haitcn down their permits, the Vessel
being immediately wanted, I J ct;r Bigit.
Who wants to Purchase,
100 Barrels ol g:od Prime or Mels Beef
ioo ditto Pork
7 or 800 ditto fine Flour
4 or szoo bulhels Indian Corn.
LANDING'
From the West Indian,
_ A choice parcel of Phetp's old particular
Wine in Pipes fit for Immediate ule.
rognft 15 <■
c a imow. 1
"\7li7" a certaln p^rfon'fwiudled
V V from me on tbefirlt inft. by giviiig
mc inlieuthereof aforged check on the Bank
of North America, anote of that date, drawn
in my favour by Mr. Jdhn Travis; and p3y- 1
aWe in lix months, for three thousand tour !
hundred and fifty seven dollars and forty-fix j
cents. ALL persons are desired not to re- j
ceive any transfer of it, as it will not be :
paid by either the drawer or endorser uiilel's J
recovered by Jaw.
' WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Race Street.
an pud 6.
The Public are hereby informed,
jj "*MAT I did not mean to aurborife Col. Will-
L iain NichoU to declare, tbnc i wnuld noc pay,
un'efs recovered *»y law, my alluded to in his
caution of tUe 6tli publilhed in the Ga
zette of the United States of laA evening. I sin
cerely lament his lols, and t»ld him I would do
all 1 could do confidently .with my credit to serve
him, but wfcnt no lurther.
JOHN "TRAVIS.
august 7
INSURANCE OtFiGE
OF THE STATE OF PENNSri.rANIA,
August 1 st, 1798
THE Dire&or? have this day declared a di
vidend of fifty-five dollars on each lharc of
the Stock of this Company, for the last half
year, which will be paid tp the Stockholders, pr
their legal representatives after the 10th instant.
Jams S. Cox, President.
august 2 % sist
TO BE SOLD,
THE time of an indented Dutch Servant BOY,
who has ten years to serve. He has had the
small pox and mealies, is active, hearty and llrong,
and fit for house work in town or country. For
further information, enquire of the printer.
»"gu»t 4 §_
FOR SALE,
The Cargo of the Sehr. Sincerity
Bepjamin Monteith Mailer, from Laguira,
CONSISTING OF
945 Fenegss of Cocoa
4000 lb. of Flora Indigo
aio Bales of Cotton
4 Packages of Goat Skins
By Willings .isf Francis.
No. Eleventh street.
July 1: dtf
To be Sold,
An elegant and convenient House,
In Chefnut jlrect> next door to the Bank of Norfb Ameirlca. !
THE Lf t is thirty by one huuered and seventy j
eight. The House lias been thoroughly repaired
within a few months. Apply to the' Printer.'
august 8 §
Public Mot.ice is hereby given,
That proposals will be received at the office
of the Secretary of the Tiealury for fiip
pl.ying the United Slates with a miniber.net
exceeding Fortv thousand Raids of, arms,
on the following "conditions.
ill. The arms lhall bs manufactured in the
United Stales, conformable to the
pattern ; the barrels lh.i)lbe proved, and the
muikets infpeifled agreeable to the rules npw
pradliled and required by she United'Stitci :
the Locks (hall be duly hardened ; the Ramrods
and Bayonets (hall be tempered and ?hr mount
ings, flocks, and every otherpirticubr lhallie
finifhed in a workman like Manqtr.
2d. The proposals mull i'pecify the number
whieb the party is willing to furnilh and the time
or times of delivery—One fourth of the pro
ppfed number must be di-livercd in fix montlis,
one'fourth 111 twelve months, and the 1 emaindelr
in eighteenmpnths from the time of figningthe
coniradls ; the public will not be considered' as
bound to teceive any arms, whiqh are.not ready
for delivery within the times proppftijl.
3d. For every Hand ps arms, with Bayonet
and Ramrod complete as aforefaid, the United
States will allow fhh teen dollars and for() cents.
4th. When prailicable and confident with
exifling arrangements, seasoned flocks will be
deliverid from the public stores in I hiladelphia
tp cpntradlprs, at the rate of twenty-five cents
each.
sth. The arms will be received in the refpec*
tive states at places tp be hereafter designated
The United States (hall not be bound to ptovp
less than five hundred barrels at one time, unless
the barrels arejranfportcd to some public facto
ry or depoltt of arms, in which cafe any num
ber not less than one hundred will be proved.
6th. The parties contracting will be requiied
to giye bonds with luretit-s for'fulfilling their en
gagements ; No m ney will be advanced unless
indisputable testimonials of ikill and atjHlty to
execute the proposed cpntrails are produced
npr in cases here proposals are madofor a lels"
number than one ijioufand of arm«i .the
right of judging of the expediency of making
advances of money isabfolutely relerved
7th. Unt 1 contrails are made fpr supplying
forty thousand (lands of arms, the sum of thir
teen dollars and forty cents will be paid nt Ihe
Treasury fer everv complete star.d of arms man
nfacflured in the United States- and which may
be delivered in parcels of not less than twenty
into the public arfenab, already or hereafter to
be eft.abbljied. Those who propole to deliver
arms must however indicate their intentions fea
foTiably to the office of the Secretary of the
Treasury.
For the Secretary of the Treasury,
'John Steele, comptroller.
Treasury Department J
June lid, 1798. S stwtf
To be Sold, at privi V Sale,
A I'.'ti-ixticn and Tjafl ''Land
CONTAINING 14; ac.es, I bite in White
martf) ton nfliip, in thecoun- if Moi.tporr.- [
cry, about ij miles IVem Pt.llo pb'a, and oh
trie public ro* i. leading from P.; -,i .uk'i by the
Broad-Ax tavei,t toward Horfhuo, «nd about
one qnirter of a mile from fxid tavero ; aifo
the feme distance ,'rom the Skippack road
i'A about the fiirte di'fance from the late refi
deuce of ,Jatn« Horns esq. dectafed. It is
bounded by lintls of Anthony M rrii esq. Jir
cob Keiff and DctK eiler. About ten acres are
good watered me*low, about 15 r.r sb a e un
der cHever, avd ablot 3 j oci cs are well timbered.
Tlie buihlitigs «n the above farm consist of a
two-story stone 'ivelling-houfe, a ftoue
barn and stone fpfing-honfe. Theiejs also en
the premises a V°! ll g orchard of about .150. ap
ple-trees.
Tins farm has jreat advantages of water, as
•there is an excellcit nevei -failing stream pi3ing
■by the house apdparn, in-ftich a manner sii to
fuppty the fame SsWll as every held vith a fu ; -
ficieht quantity.
The ipring avet which the spring-house is
buiit, is excellent ,vater, and is alii) very near
and convenient to t|ie dwelling house.
The situation of this place is healthy and in a
good neighborhood', and is Hear to ft veral dif
ferent plates of wqrfhip, and within the dil*
tance of half a tn,e from two grill and fav;
rnills, ,-Ifonear lim'-kilnj.
This farm will be fold togethir qr divided in
to two pitrtS! as iria\ suit tht purchalers. Alio
a tvro-ftory flone hoiie wiih a barn tnd carri>j;c
house and lot of landbtuate on Chefnut hill. Ir
is a very high and healthy situation, and com
mands a very extensive a-Bd beautiful profpcil—
Pofl'eluon of part of the toufe may be hid im
For tin iter particulars apply tb Henry Pratt,
No 94 North Water ftrc t P'iira3eljliia, or to
CHRISTOPHER HETDRICK,
on C/jjsUit HilL
Chefnut-hill, august 14th, 179?. 2awtf
Epidemic and Pestilential 'diseases.
A DISSERTATION' ON THE SOURCES 7IEREOF,
IN which it is attempted to prove iron'a nume
rous iuduilion foils, ihit they niver arise
from contagion, but a f always pr«duce\ by cer
tain ftatesand viciffitifdes of the atmofpfxj e.
By CHARLES MCLEAN, Calcutfl
This valuable work, together with a yiew of i
the Science of Life, —and a Treat ife on tfc a6tion
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its ap>licati®ti [
the cure of diseases of inidireA deblity
Neatly printed on fine wove paper, and iound in
boards, are now to be had at 'i
W. YOUNG's Book Store,
The corner of Second and Chefnut ftrcets,
( Frits One Dollar*)
august 14 eo 7/
Bengal Goods,
CONS»T4Na GF
BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS,
Chintz Colfas Maharazgungy
Chintz Guzzinas Tookereys
Eliabad Baftas Wrought Muslins
Long Drawers
Coarse Sugars in bags, fit for the European markets
AtSO,
Carolina Indigo
Coffee m hogsheads
A few pipes of rery old and tery choice Madeira
WINE
For Sale, on. reasonable terms, by
John Craig,
No. 12, Dock-ttreet.
July 14 mwstf
Mails for South-Carclina 'df Georgia,
PACKETS ate now provided for carrying the
Public njT'lsby water between Philadelphia
an,d Charleston. They will l«ave Philadelphia
on Friday's. TjJic post by land will be cdiitinni
td twice a « t>el< until an experiment i. made in
regard to the expedition rrgularity ps tilt
packets. If any person chufes to 1 ave tlieil
lexers sent ,by Igud only, will please to
write the wpfd Upai upon the letters : othefl
wif.- thev will be lent by tha[-conveyance wjlji 1
will firft start after tits letters are Ht in the
poft-effice.
jfofeph Baberjham,
P oft-Mi djler Geme taL
Philadelphia. i' : '79% • j) ft
I'hc fallowing Certificates
OF Funded Debt an. Bank, of United Statejs
Stock, were forwarded from Eingland per
thfc Countess of beiciftir Packet, in the 'nth
month, 1797, which vessel has been captured,
anS the Certificates supposed tobs loft.
4000 dollars 4j per ceut. Stock, Handing on the
books of the Trcafury, in the narae ol Bird Sav
and Bir.l Certificate no 189, dated July 19th, '<j6.
Ten oharesStock of the Bank ot UnitedStatete
in the name of MjHer, Hart 1?: Co. of London,
in one Certificate, No. 46067, dated the lit day
of January, 17«?7-
For the renewal of which certificates, applica
tion is intended to be made st the Odice of (lie
Treafuryof the United States, and at thii Bank of
United States; of which all persons interefled
therein, arc dcfireti to take notice.
JOHN WARDER.
Philadelphia, 5 mo. 16, IJ9B.
aaw^m
John Haines & Wm. Jones,
HEG leave toinform theirfriends and the public,
J0 that they have commenced a Co-partnership
in th* SADDLING BUSINESS, which will iw
future be carried on under the firm of
HAINES Cs* JONES,
n Market Rreet, No. 132, one door above the
corner of Fourth, —where they presume (at least
to hope)'that their attention to, aud knowledge jo
bufinefj, their determination to serve on the bell
terms, and their JcnowE attachment as Native A
mencans to the Government and Conftitutiori of
their Cour.tty, will entitlethem to the encourage
ment of a generous publfc. Although they can
not boast of having required their experience in
any part of Europe, yet they take the liberty 61
pledging themselves, that their D'anufa&ure lliul
be inferior t none in this city.
June i 6. tuth«tf
FOR SALE,
AF RM on the road leading to Stite IfUrvd.
Within four and an halfnvlrs »f Philadelphia,
containing 45atrcs in she bighnt flare of cultivation
—ax ierei ot which is meadow, the remainder up
land. 1 hctr areon the prcmife- , a new (rime House
and JJarn, with an excellent kilrhen jrariiei., contain-
gT^ al l,u n)ber of frit Trees.— Immediate polTjf
(ion will be given.
For terms «pply to
Thomas W. Francis,
Mo. .-.S South Third ftrrtt.'
july (8< if
Ttrritoiy of :bc XftiUtd States of tht
Ri-vrf Obia.
Washington County, si.
W MKI,<EAS a Writ of At achmtnt hath if.
lord otit ot the court of Co:nmcn Picas
in ftid 'county, tlire&ed to the-SI rriff vof fax)
cr BOty, returnable to at the
fuitof Gliff'n Greene, cl'q. I.i Goed*
and Chattels, Lintls,"CcHeSer• ,£ft"-.i51-,'R!gh;j
and Credits of Asa Barret, t'.f jipiJaijL
And<u>heat, faid Sl.euiT 1..:t;. I y irtur of
laid Win attached a Lot of Lskf.d v ;ic; ii laid
county, coiitai'mfig onr huDiirc ' «crrs, iie pro
perty of the 1 efendant. AO-flCr is therefore
given to the laid Asa Barret that unl fs tie djth
appear and give Special Bail to '.tie Action,
Judgment will be eutcred by Default. and the
land above-mentioned will be fold as the law
dire&s. Benjumin Ives Gilman,
Prcthonotary.
Marietta, July 3rtb, '798. jaw6w
AD VE RTISE MTITT7 -
TT7HEREAS James Cummikg Is" . 0. late of
VV the cit/ of Philadelphia, I;.rthants, have
affigntd ov*;r all their effects, real, rcrtoi al and
miaed, to the k jfrrifcers, for t .0 bcm f.t of all
their creditors, who C all XitM. rilx the laid allign
mer:t within fix months from the datehcieof.
IS 1i i. K<\ii \ GIVEN, to all persons
wJ.o are indebted to the fcid entire that they are
required to lvake immediate payment of th.ir rcf
pe.Cttve accounts, to the.4fligi.ee*, at their office,
No. 61, Dock freer,-in fai:iire v<hct€«f actions
will be iiutitute-J ior the recovery of luch de.its as
are no: accori!!. 1 ;!y
"John Travis,
7olin- atidinrtcn,
7 r 0 >- A fSi/nees.
J nies J ay/or, . b
Csrm/iuj Com.'gyr
wgtut 18 ' row/ :I>
.for saei; 7
B.Y THE SUBSCRIBERS, NO. EL K , KTH-STS t EI,
18 Bags Fresh Cloves.
Witting?& Francis.
j""e 29. cits
- DU TY on
*
Notice is hereby given,
THAT agreeably to an ail 01 Congress of the
Unit d States of America, palfed at i J . :ia
delphia the 28th day of May, 1796, laying du
ties on carriages for the conveyance of per Ims and
repealing the former ails for that purpose That
there shall re levied, collected paid, upon all
carriages for the Convcy .uce ot p.jrfons, winch
shall he kept by or tor any person. for his o her
own use, or to Ist out to hire, or for the convey
ing of pafl'engers, the fcveral duties and rates tol
lowing, viz. dolls.
For and upon every coach Ij
upon every chariot 14
upon every pod chariot U
upon every chads I 4
upon every phseton, with or without top 9
apon every coachee 9
upon other carriages, having pasnel")
work above, with blinds, glafl'cs, ( 9
or curtains y
upon four-wheel carriages, having")
frame polls and tops, with lieel C (,
fpriugs \
upon four-wh«el top carriages, with ")
wooden of iron springs on jacks j 3
upon curricles with tpps ,
upon chailci with tops .
upon chairs with tops
upon sulkies with t»p« .
upon other two wheel top carriages 3
upon two wh;cl carriages with'lleel - )
or iron fpriugs 3
For and upon all other.two wheel carriages j
upon every four wheeled carriage.")
having framed pads and top- ( 1
and relling upon wooden spar- j
The Colleger ot the revenue o the fir!l i vn.oit
of the firfl survey of the diilriiS of Peiinfyly.iHia,
will attend daily until the 30th day of S-ptciffiher
next, for the purpose of receiving the - utiet on 1
carriages, at Germantown, >n the Main'llreet, a/
little above the fijn 1 f the King of Prnfl.a, of/
VT'hich all poltelTed of such carriaVcs arit
defirod to tnke notice
Notice is also given,
To all retail dealers in wines aiiJTor >gn dif! illed
fplrituouf. liqucrs, that licenses will be grat ted to
thim ;I fl licence:.for "iarry on the 1 ulincfs of
retailing of win s in a less quantify, cr in less
uantities, than 30 gallon—and one licence for
•rrying 011 thfc biifincfs of retailing fpintu. us li
quors in less quantities than twenty g .llori«, at the
Tattle time and at the f..me place, by
JAMES ASH,
Collector of riie lit div.fion of the rft
Survey of th.- diftria of Pei niylvania.
Office of lnfpeiSion at Germantown, ")
aid August, 1795.
£/• Every denomination of Stamps to be had
at laid office.
The Stamp Press is removed
to tlie Office of Infp«ilion in Germantown, on the
Maifc -reet, a little af.ovc tb« Ogn of the King ot
Prulfi, —where attemiance will be given for the
accommodation ot thoie who wiflj any inllraniii.ti
ftaniped, on Tu fdays, 'l'hurfdays and Saturdays. '
aijgmt lz
PETER BLIGHT
HAS removed his Counting tloufs to hit House
in the Northern Liberties near Nice l'own, tier
man town road,
august 11.
0" Whereas Catharine, the Wife
of the Subfcriher, has left my bed ar.d kosid
without any jull c'aufe.—Tlid said Catharine
having contrafled debts on my act. unt ;
this is therefore to fbrwarn allptrfons from trnft
ing or hartioring.her on my tccount as 1 am de
termined not to afiftver any i!:er the date of
this advertilement. iCUHN.
Philadelphia, 2lrf (Wgiist, 17-93. *3/
" WTLENiZ',
Teacher of the Piano Forte,
T) fiSPECTFULLY < (fers i.,s lervicc? to at
i\.trnd his Icjiolars and othersat Germantftwn
—fhotild as many as Twelve request his attend
ance he will wat on them immediitely.—
to riiredl to the printer of. the Gazette t l tha
United States.
august 20 "ivt
c 3* Any person iu the neighbour.
hoed of Gerinanti.wn defirontof iff itn j Irfuran
ees at the Office'tff'tiie Itifur nee Compl yof '.a
State of Penniylvai ia, now op r.e.i at the North
Weft I orrtr of Ninth and Market flre.'is, may
ki ow the teriiis by leaving an < nqniry at th honfj
of Samu»J "V.Fifecr, Efq.ic Germantown.
august 13- <tw
[Fezrmm XIV.iro'ifthe NF.'A'ARK G.VZlil - i£.
Freedom of Speech anb of t,H£ Pacss',
OR
Tut Libektv or-Doino and Savin<; what
one Pleases.
A SONG—Tune —Nancy Dawfon.
■y E fouls made up of spleen and spite,
And who ui uproar take delight,
Come vindicate the sacred right,
Of mauling of your betters—
Thole lucli-born sons of wealth and pow r
Would fain your liberty devour,
from stains impure your press they'd fcour K
Ana put your tongues in fetters. 1
fiut nobly letyour tongue and qu'll
Utter and write whate'er they will,
Ot lies and fcaiuial have your fill,
And put them at defiance ;
.Tell how we injur'd France—and broke
treaty, by that fatal stroke
Of bowing to aßritilhyoke !
And courting alliance.
Be not afraid to take your aim
At men ©f stations—wealth and fame ;
For scandal lo\es a lofty game ;
(What joy to fee them tumble !)
And since it cannot be our fate
To ftec# the veflel of the (late,
And grow important, wife aud great,
Lets fl rive to mike theiu humb.e.
Cry out, John Adams is a knave ;
And will his courittyraen enslave ! ,
Then hurl him to a I'udden grave, .
And damn hH reputation.
Say every niaai'-i power, and place,
Should never dare to shew his face ,
But be dismissed with disgrace !
And antis fill each Ration.
Lampoon the Gov'nor—call him Sot!
Rogue, coward, blackguard—and what not ,
And from his name < ach virtus Hot,
For that vile declaration ,
That every honest Jersey blue,
Should to his country's rights be true,
And boldly face the plundering crjw,
Who would invade our nation.
Declare the story of X. \.
And Z. is a eurfed lie,
And that Monftfur did never try
To mate us tributary—
That tho* they've treated -
Marfha'.l and Pinckney— it is plain
We stall not sue for' peace in vim:— .
They'll treat with Mr. Gerry I
Say Cougrefshave enaac.d laws
Which cram a eag into cur jaws,
And I.ivingfton deserves applause
From crying out resistance !
Then let the sweet celetlial note,
Ee echoed from each patriot throat
Lets set a Civil war afioat,
And claim from France alTillance.
F.Jftx County,Augujl tjth, 1/9^'
To be Sold,
Tha> elegantly situated BRICK HOUSE and LOT
adjoining of eight or n\nc Acres of Land, fronting
«. High-Street in the Ciiyof Petth-Aroboy, New
ts' 'HE House is upwards of fifty feet front, forty
jL feet deeo, and two ftoiies high, with four well
finifhed r< 0111s oil each floor, the garret celled, and a
eood cellar under he whole--ICommanding 1 Commanding in front,
on rxtcnfive view of the harbor and bay down to San
dv-Hnok, the Lißbt-houfe and Ih.ppingto and from
New-York—in ihe ear a pleating profpeft of Ran
-13,! river for lome miles towards Brunfwick ; and a.to
of Lhe found towaics fefizabetb-iown, The garden
is Ipacious, in good order, and well laid out, in the
tea, ot Which is » small orchard of excellent fruit; on
the pre miles are also a large coach-haufe an J stable.,
and a well of good waier; a public ba' his erefled o»
ibe fliore not far from the house, and at the difbnee
of about two miles is a mineral fprinß, ,n ' ""
lieiy cf cases proves very fjluta.y --Upon, the whole,
the house and i-s eonvrnience., the healthful and airy
situation of the place, render it an objrtt worthy the
a'ncniibn of any gentleman of lortune-For further
particulars and te.ms. apply to John Stevens at Ho
boken, Hear New-York, to John Roe, merchant in
>Jew-Yoik, or to Richard Stevens refiding-on the
< s-»
Eigbt Dollars
RAN away from the „ fubfcrilfer on
fatt an apprentice Boy named Benjamin
Billings, -by trade a Shoe maker, about j feet 7
inches high,—took with him a number of cloth
ing, none can be recolle&ed but a striped Ging
ham Coatee and Trowfers'and a new rorum
Hat, supposed he has gone on board of a 'h'PT"
All mailers of veflels are forbid harbouring laid
Voy, or carrying him away at their peril, as I
"Will proiecute any one that does carry hun on.
JACOB BECHTEL,
No. in. North Second Street,
august 9
ArtiUeriJis Pocket Companion.
, Jult Publiffied,
A SYSTEM for the Discipline of the Artil
lery of the United States of America, or
the Young Artillerills Pocket Companion,
By Colonel STEVENS,
An officer in the Artillery through the whole,
of the late revolution, and since in the militia—
price t dollaV and 121-1 cents. Sold by ROB
ERT CAMPriELL & Co. (lately removed
from No. 40, South Second Street, to No. 30,
Chefnntftreet) who have for file, a very gen
eral aflbrtmCiit of Books and Stationary on the
very lowest terms, by wholesale and retail.
;uguft 1 *3*
Canal Lottery, No. 11.
Conliderab'y more than Half Drawn.
DrWJJi twice a week, every Monday iff Tuesday
SOCKETS For Sale, Seven Dollars each, at
1 WILLIAM BLACKBURN'S Lottery
aud Brokers office. No. 64 South Second-street,
where chesk books are kept for examination aid
regit.ering in this, City of Wafiiington No. *.
and Paierfon Lotteiies and information where
Tickets may be had in most of the Lotteries au
rh'firifed by law in any of the States of the
Union.
State or the Wheel,
One prize of 10,000 dollars 10,000
p.; ve 4,000 , 20,000
Two 3,000 _ 4,000
Nine »»oco ' 9> oo °
Nineteen S c ° 9S°*
Torty-ftur 200 8,800
With a full proportion ot the one hundred
and of the fifty dollar prizes—the price of tick
ets will soon 1 i'fe, particularly on account of the
five 4,033 dollar prizes that remain ip the wheel
until the laftday of drawing.
0- Note, the business of a Broker duly at
tended to in all its branches at the above office
may 24 w&stt
Wanted— Actuation in aPub
lic or Merchants Office, or to go as Supercargo,
perfon regularly brought up vo the Mer
cantile and Insurance business in Londtfii, he has
lately been a voyag=.liom hence to the Welt-In
» dies as Supercargo, can be 'well recommended,
—Pleal'e to enquire at the Printer's.
augiift it ,
A House to let",
in Fourth f.reet, nest door to the Indian Oreen,
Enquire of Robert Smitilj Sooth tiont
fmu S
i.. ;• • .. i .
•f3je ©ajettc. !
- -r —— - |"
PHILADELPHIA, i«
v
EVENING, Augujl 28. j t l
The Jacobi prints, the Chronicle and j
Aurora, reproate the policy of interdi&ing '
ccsmmet'ce bewien the United States and j j (
the French ports in the Islands—" when
such flattering to the enterprize of
the American Merchants were ripening"— t
This flattering profpeft is produced by that
policy which the faction reprobate. The £
trade his hitherto proved the grave of our
velTels ai d cargoes—The interdi£lion may
open their eyes to jtlllice a>d found policy ;
Interim, it is not ill the jower of all the {
lying foreign, Gazettes in tie United States v
to prove, that the trade of tie islands can be
flattering or profitable, so bng as the plun
dering anti-commercial fyftirr of the present
rulers of France and her cdonies continues.
On this fubjeft the Maffaihufctts Mercury
contains the following judicious remarks. {
"It is confiflent withCHRONtcLE fairngfs ,
in general to impute to the friends of our j
I government a wish to ftarie the inhabitants t
of the French Colonies—Other motives ar '
obvious. The American*have had the.car- |
goes of their reffels feizei in French ports t
and confifcated ; they hate in other inftan- •,
ces, had their merchandize taken from them, f
prices set upon it, and payment made in
I(land pr'oducr; the price of which was also '
set by the fame party; American vtfTels j
have been captured by French cruizers,
when bound to or from £ngli(h, Neutral or |
evem French ports, and condemned ; A me- j
ricans have been insulted, beaten, murdered ,
by French privateerfmcn } Some Viten j
turned on ftltrtfetta the Wejl Indies, without a ,
change ofcloathing from their own ch.efts, j
or a mojfel of provisions ffom their own
cargoes ;/a«d have in some instances Itarved
or taken /ifeafes which have destroyed them.
Were ntt thtfe things fufficient to rouse
refentmtht in every mind ? When too we
knew ie deserved gratitude for onr sup
plies nther than such usage ? What could
be mote natural than to convince them of
their dependance upon u3. When the in
tercoirfe has been flopped for a flioct time,
they will know how to appreciate «ur
friendftip ; they "will know we art not such
koofs a to put victuals into the mouth
whichcurfes, or strengthen the arm which
plunders us. The eyes of the common class
of citizens will be opened, they will truce
the cause of their miseries to their rulers,
and they will be our avengers. Then will
Our granaries again be free; then will the
bee! cf America again cheer the honest I{lan
ders. This is the consummation aimed at,
aftd this is a oonfummation devoutadly to
be wilhed."
[ln the Gazette of Monday the 20th Inflant,
ibme articles were published from a Boflonpa
per, the Mercury of the "14th, (Utifig that pro
visions were extremely fcarec at St Domingo.
In the Chronicle of the 20th the ftatem?nt
was coutr*di<Jled and the mme of capt Bates
brought forward to confirm the contradiction.
The Mercury of the wfl contains the follow
ing pointed refutations of the Chronicle falfe
hoods.J
" Cap} Bates has called upifn us and autho
rized us to fay, that he never gave the intelli
gence of which yesterday's Chronicle mates him
th« author. He never faicl nor knew that He
• douville sent either hens, turkeys, geese, lem
ons, oranges or pine apples to any Englilh 'offi
cer ; or that./itu/j were eaten at the civic feaft,
( though he recolle&s hearing that they had no
bread) Or, that there were 30S0 barrels flour
in the magazines. Thus it i'eems, that under
old or new, Editor, communicating one fort of
intelligence or anather, the Chronicle supports
its thara&er as a LYING If APE R.
To the 'Editor i of the Mercury.
" In yesterday's Chronicle, I noticed a pub
lication, which is principally erroneous. It re
lates to the recerit news from Cape Francois, and
invalidates accurate flatements in the Mercury
and Centinel. I went the voyage in the fame
veilel with capt Bates and was as well situated
for obtaining information.
" The Spanilh vefiel mentioned in the " »d
proof," was not captured till after we fai'ed.—
She was loaded with cattle and w,as ordered for
N Mole. No ox was taken to find to Hedou
ville. A flag of truce had gone in, carried by
the captain ot the frigate, the avowed purpose,
to exchange a few prisoners, but the real defiga
to obtain information of the situation of the
Cape and of veflels there. Thi» flag had not
returned when we parted with the British fri
gate. And this is the foundation of the migh
ty (lory of the ox, and the 300 hens, turkeys,
geese, &c. &e, —I was told by a French offu er
the fi<st which has been slated refpeiting He
douville's dinner of plantair.s and potatoes.
" The " 3d proof" mentions an elegant en
tertainment given to the people .1 do remember
a fort of holy-day like our Elc£lion and Com
mencement Days ; but Ido not believe there
were many fowls eaten ; Nor do I think there
were so many fowls in the whole island as were
said to have been devoured on that day. I can
not conceive how capt Bates fliould be a " wit-
the fealt," when he pc.fitively was n»t on
(hore the whole day. It is antrue that T°uf
faiat was present at the feaft, as he left the Cape
the very day previous to it. . 1
«' The Chronicle fays " There was at the
Cape 30CO barrels of flour in the Public Maga
zine*." A baker told me there was none ex
cept in the hands of bakers, and with them on
ly fufficient to lafl a Ihort time.
" Small roUt, which I think did not contain
more flour than our bilcuit, fold for ten
Cents
«' The French frigates at the Cape, the Cock
ade, the Seine and theJßrave, had theircrews
fed with plaintains and potatoes. The people
ot the Cockade, that being the Commodore (hip
were quiet; but the crews of the other two were
mutinous, and were nnf fuffered to come on
flioreat thefeftival, 011 account of this spirit.
" When we firft arrivtd at the Cape, in pair
ing an arrtied brig, they demanded who we were
and our pilot, in order to facilitate our pafling,
answered, "an A-mciican with ptoviiions,"
which occafionc.l shouts of joy.
I have npt fecn capt Bates since the public*,
tion, but cannot beliere he authorized the afler
tions made ia it. JC.IIN PRINCE.
Ft sal th: litsljbirc Guz-e'.le. 1
—. '
It is milch to be lamented that mankinl <y
are ir.Suefrced in their couduii more b ■ S
their pafiions than their reafi>n. Artfiii tl
men, therefore, who think any meafurelaw- al
ful that will aecomplifh thMC purp >fes, in ti
tte;id of endeavouring to inftruci and inferrr.
the.mii.ds of men, and in that way to con ii
vinee them, take a (horter '.vay 'to fiffetl ti
thfir deiigns by addressing themfclves to u
their passions and prejudices. Nothing can n
more fully verify this remark than th? con p
dust of the modern Revolutionists and Pfii- ,c
lofophers of Europe and America. The >'
pariyin this country, disappointed in their J
bppofition to, the Britiih Treat) ; and in r
their attempts to ele£l Mr. Jefferfon to the i
office of prelident, and put us und.-r the 1
contrOul of France, have redoubl.d th.ir f
adlivi'y in spreading (land r ana falriiood v
among the lead informed part of the com
munity, to alienate their attachment from \
their own government, and to unite them g
with an unprincipled foreign natioa in op 0
poiition to their own country.
The people are told. " That the pe-fnns c
•who adminijler our Government, and those ! (i
who support the late measures which have \ ■
teen adopted, -are old Britijh Tories, who are 0
endeavouring to bring us back to our former f
Jlate of Colonial Dependence." The tale of t
itfelf seems too idle to r quire eontradic- j
tion j but when we coufider how great a £
part of mankind are moved and influenced I
by their prejudices, without taking time to 1
reflect, it may not be thought useless to 1
'make a few obfervation3 upoa it. For my- 1
felf, I have no doubt, that the class of peo
ple who were called Tories, in . the time of
our late Revolution, have been generally as .
firmly attached to our Government as any
other description of men ; some of- them, I
know during our late infurreftion were the
firft in support of Government, to expose
themselves to dangers in the high places ot
lbs ficlJ. But let it be fnppofed, tor the
present confideratipn, that they are unfriend
ly to a Republican Government, and are
seeking to bring us into fubjeflion to Great
Britain. I would then a(k wTiere theft Old
Tories are to be found, who conditute, at
lead, two thirds of the whole American
peoj'le ? No where- -unless it be in the dis
ordered imaginations of the felf called pa
triotic republicans, and in the weak mind*
of ciedulous men, who have been wrought
upon by such hob-goblin dories.
Who are the chaiaders that are intended
to be stigmatized as Old Tories ? They are
Adam 3, Washington, Jay, and a long lid
of worthies, who were the firll movers, and
the firm and deady conduftorsof that revo
lution which fevered us from the British Em
pire, and gave us rank among Independent
nations. Who are the fupporlers of these
characters, and of the present measures of
government ? As we have not the means of
knowing the fetitiments of the people in the
reir.ote parts of the Union, we will only took
' look around U3 in New-England. The
four New dates fend twenty-seven
represent tives that num.
1 bcr three only can be counted on the fide of
opposition ; ic it is confidently expected that
not more than one of them w.ll be re-clc£l
: ed. The Representation from New-Eng
land is then almod nine-tenths in support of
• the meafure3 of Governm.nt. But look
at the late addrefTes of the several legisla
tures ot the fame dates to the President,
you will there fee in those four legislatures
. 482 votes decidedly in approbation of the
1 measures of the Executive, arid pledge
• themselves and their constituents for their
support—in tppofition to those addrefTes
you will .ind only the diminutive and pitiful
| number of thirty-fix. Almolt fifteen fix
teer.ths then of all the people in the four
New-England Hates, we may firmly con
s elude, are on the fide of government and of
! the adminidration.
Were all the people of New-England,
who were thefird and braved supporters of
our Independence, Old Tories ? Was the
firm and virtuous Adams, who signed the
1 declaration of Independence, and managed
r affairs of the highest importance at foreign
: courts, was he an enemy and traitor to his
' country ? Was the great and illudri.ous
j Wufhington, who led our armies in the field
and whose fame as a guardian genius llovets
. over this land, was hc opposed to the prin
ciples of our revolution and to our national
' independence ? Are the large majority of
both houfe9 of Congress, men feledted for
' their virtue, integrity and talents, old To
j ries? If these are the o d Tories, of whom
our Democrats so loudly declaim, what vir
tuous American will not be proud to be
, seen en their fide ? Let the followers of the
infidel, Jefferfon, and the foreigner Galla
' tin, call the vetcaa heroes and sages of A»
mcrica by wh3t epithets they pleale ; I trud
my countrymen will have too much difcarn
ment to be cheated out" of their liberties,
; by the insidious artifices of political fwind
: lers, and too much spirit and firmnefs to
: surrender them to the corrupt and deteflable
' tyrants of France.
• A Real American.
1
; EXTRACT
From Mr. Allen's Oration, delivered at Pitts
c Ji Id, on the 4th Ju'y, 1798.
THAT we had a right to make a treaty
" with the British government is acknow
ledged by every one who acknowledges ou,r
, independence. Unfortunately the goverri
n ment of France took occaiioii of offence.
They have dedroyed all diplomatic inter
> course—they have pursued measures ruinous
s to our trade, and dedru&ive of t/ie bed in
e tertfls of our country. While we have sup-
plicated them to hear our complaints, and
„ to do us jullice—they have treated our mes
sengers of reconciliation with contumacy —
r* they have turned a deaf ear to our entreaties
e —they have turned on their heel from us.
[5 What then remains to be done ? Shall we
tamely submit to bear insults and injuries
without (hewing any resentment ? Shall wa
r . put out selves under the guidance and direc
tion of the French republic ? Alas 1 poor
iiittva a <d t> eacons hc
fiSll? in our view, to warn us the th
qjiickfifld o » wli cli they have foundered, ci
Shall we co'if-jit to become" tributaries to
tltis ail terribie republic ? Ihe idea is too th
abhorrent to ihe feelings of ev ry American, te
to admit of a moment's r'll-&ion. th
But l"t us ndt dwell too long on the dark
fide of r.bje£b. Rather let pleasing erno- '
tion.) take place of painful sensations. Let pi
iii confile in the justice and energy of the tr
men of our choice, to pursue measures com
patible with the honor and dignity of our A
country,—let us be actuated by pure Am:- w
■•icanifm j that amorpairii which despises all m
depeiulertf%sn any other country. Let us ri
realize one prefect unexarnplrd ad"a,Qjag s,
in poinjt of civil and religious liberty— tl
These liare beer, dearlypurehafed, and are ti
some of the happy effects of the revolution
we celebrate, cl
And as our country, (tiled the New- m
World, was difee vered lull, so probably her fe
greatness will exceed and survive tiie wreck h
of,oth.r nations. The fertility of h*r foil
—the information and independence of her t
citizen^ —the rapid population and xten- vi
tivenefs of__her territory—die variety and
faluhrity of her climate, and the happv form ti
of government under which Ihe exifls, all a
poi't her out as the wide theatre, on which v
the God of Nature will.permit to be dif
played the lad grand scenes of social order t
and of human life. Hail happy v 'lumbia ! t
May thy proipeifts brighten as thy years n
roll on. May the opprefTed of all nations
here come and participate in the PafLvcr of a
Freedom, - i)
exirX'T
From Mr. Fejjendcn's Qrqfion, delivered at I
Rutland, on the 4th Ju'y, 1798. t
AMERICANS, contemplate for a mo
ment the afpedt of : mope, and adore the
God of Nature, that you are placed at so f
great a difiance from that th atre of Dif- f
ford.tfFwWej.epwblicys proceeding .1
irrefiftaby, conqueiitig and to conquer,
proclaiming liberty, but designing domination,
ir.fluenciig, controuling and annul ing po
pular eWions, iv. rawing by (lauding ar- 1
miei.. thedeliberation of legislative bodies, j
arresting and banilhing without trial, not
only privJte individuals, but the reprefea- <
tatives ef the people, clothed in their offi
-1 peaceably exercising the func
tions of ltgiflators. A mad rage for reform,
not di&aied by reason nor matured by re- i
fleftion, but a certain blind impetus, the
offspring.if Ignorance nurtured by Ferocity
—impelling sanguinary hordes to the de
drutition of all order and social improve
ment. Behold in France the bands of so
ciety loofedv oaths, compacts, treatie?, the
laws of tature and nations, not only violated,
nullity. Atheism, formally
decreed and publicly profefTed, a harlot wor
(hipped, and man reveiting faft to worse than
fixudal b'.rbarifm 1 Such is France, such will
be Ameiica, (h mid Frenchmen or French
principles obtain complete ascendancy.
We turn from such disgusting scenes to
this land of true liberty—but here clouds
: portentous impend over our rising empire.
Already the thunder of the French Diredto
■ ry murmurs at a didance, ,Soon may the .
hurricane of war ingulph our commerce in
the Atlantic, and from St. Croix to the Sa
, vannah, sweep our coast with the besom of
• deftruiftion 1 Southern (laves, Wedern In
, dians, impoi ted Americans, with hordes of
> fanguiaary Sans Culottes, are preparing to
: renew on these coads, the atrocities of S'..
Domingo! U:,ion alone can prevent a def
f tiny so awful Let us then unite under tlu
s banner of otir independence. No more may
1 the badges of party designate divisions
• grateful to domineering foreigners. May
: the vile epithets Arillocrat and Democrat
- no more make glad the ears of tht enemies
f to our country, but our citizens glory in
being (liled Americans. Let a holy enthu
, fiafm in the cause cf independence again
f with lightning rapidity pervade this exten
c live continent, while thy veterans ps our
t reolutionary war, thehei'ocs. of Breed's hill.
I Bennington, Trenton and Saratoga, again
1 terrible in arms, are rallying around the
s (landard of our Liberties 1 Publith it then
s in F ranee, cau r e it to be proclaimed is the
1 streets of that America is ONE.
s That in her.ewn defence'againd foreign in.
- v.iders, (He bids defiance to France, to Eu
-1 rope, to the world inarms! Tell our ci
s devant ally, (hould (he attempt to precipitate
r her myriads on these coalts, she would wit
- iief* in every defile of ovr mountains, the
a ilrai's, of Tliermopylas, in every American
- loldier a Spartan Leonidas !
ALEXANDRIA, Aug. 23.
On Friday, Robert G Harper, Esq. ar
- rived here 011 his way to Mount Vernorj,
I A number of rcfpt&able - citizens waited on
- him, and desirous of exprefling their refpedt
, and elteem for hfni, and their a,probation
. of his political character, they requetled
□ his company /.t a public dinner 011 Mondays
c when a numeroos and refpetfablc company,
citizens i f Alexandria, of Fairfax, and of
Maryland, fat down 10 an elegant enter
tainment.
The company were highly pleased with
- the manly deportment ; the poiifhed man
ners—and the enlivening, feniibie converia
y tion of their tefpe&able gucd.—Mirth and
- good humour prevailed ; a-d the following
r toalls wete given :—Colon'l Fitzgerald be.
- ing president, Colonel Simras, vide prefi
•. dent.
i. The people of the United States
is enlightened as they are, may they be vir
- tuous—conlequeritly, free and happy.
>- 2. The government of the Uuion—Mav
d this bright chain that links us together, ever
f- refill the iu(l of foreign intrigue and dorhef
- tic faftion.
•» 3. The President of the United States
s. whose virtues dignify the office his country
r e has bellowed upon him.
;s 4. General Washington —May he l.'ng
ra continue the towir of to this coun
:- try,_and the terror of it's foes.
ir 5« The majority in Congrcfs— May their
\ v V II
hone* labours ;ri?et with tnn'rVdere reward— II
the attpliufe and gtatitude of their fellovr
citizens.
6. The heads of the departments—May
their wifd jib, integrity and pa riotifm pro
tect them againlt tne malice, and (hield
them againll the calumnies of their enemies.
7 The Judiciary of the United States
—May it be a terror to evil doers, and sup- I
port the laws and conitituiion of our caun*
try with justice and wifdo/n.
8. The agriculture asd commerce of
America—May their mutual interests be '
well understood and steadily pursued ; and
may they repent their error who fcek to di
ride them.
9. T(ie manufactures of America—M<y
their rapid incr-afe give
to our independence.
10. The soldiers of America—whilst the
chara&tr of citizen and soldier is united,
may the confidence aud alfettion of their
fellow c tizens support them in service and
honor them in retirement.
(I. T/ie infant navy of America—Like
Her til-s in hi - cradle may it crulh the en
venomed race of French plunderers.
12. The American youth who, modestly
trusting to the wisdom and virtue of the:*
aijed patriots, b'avely determine to march
where they !hall p.iirt the way.
13 Out late e rvoys rxtraiudir.arv—May
the applauds they so jiiitly rece ve, convince
the ftrva is of the people that iionelt firm- 1
ness will not go unrewarded;
14.. The American Eagle Mav it with
a keen 31' d "eady lye furvcy ; and wuh a fl
Itrcmg ar.d rapid-wing soar to the summit of
political happineis.
IJ. The American Fair—May their 1
beauty and virtue p eferve the morality and i
the honor of th ir countrymen..
sifter Mr. Harper retired.
Robert G. Harf er-—The keen- <!ete£ler of i
foreign intrigue, the cttmly and el quertt
fnpporter of hu cuiiatry 's independence and
hon^r.
VOLUNTEERS.
1 The laud we live in—and mav we ne- ij
ver again submit o be mifrtprtfented in the
general council of the United States.
2. May it never be cheiifhed as a maxim
among republicans, to'applaud minorities.
3. The Attorney general of the United
States, our worthy Townsman.
4- General Hamilton ; may his fervlces
in his prefect appointment redound as much
to the honor and intertft of his country, as
those which he rendered, when Secretary of
the Treasury.
5. MelTrs. Evans, Morgan, and Machir
May their firmr.efs it! opposing the ag
gredion9 of ou- insolent foe, meet with the
grateful approbation of their cooftituents.
6. The external and internal foes of the
United States—the bayonet to the firft—
may repentance save the latter from the
I halter.
—-
' PROVIDENCE Auvuft 18.
Federalism of rough *
The Genius of this Country, /peaking by the
mouth of its President, has ronfe ' £3" eleSri
. Jied the remotejl Corner of the Continent. Tha
, Torpid have become antimated and the Deluded
. undeceived All now seem ready, to make a
f Tender of their Lives and Fortunes, to re M
th- Efforts of that " d plbmatjc'k SUII."
f which morejrhan Slrenth or Valour has cor.tri
, buted to lay ivafte thefaircfi Portion of Creation,
is now piimging the domeflic B.'yonet into the
. Bosom of unhappy Ireland, an I, if not counter
acted with Effett, would reduce the United
r Stales to be a worse Place of Refdeuce than the
s . States, of Barbury. Impressed with these
, Sentiments, a large Number of th: Inhabitants
t of the Town of Attleborough ■itfembted on the
s 10th Inflant, at the House of Mr. Samuel
1 Newel, to converse on tire Subjed, and to pledge
■ 13 each other their ardent Zeal and Attachment
, to the common Cause At Two o'Clock there
was a Call to order. A.committee was chosen to
r prepare a number of f 'oajls, such as Hiou'd ex
press tbofcf ntiments in Qmore pointed manner. At
this Meeting all were unanimous, patriotic,
e enthufiajlic, yet temperate. The Spirit of old
u Bunker -Hill looked through them. They fear
e not the vaunted Discipline, ncr yet the boa/led
Courage of the French ; thry feel thimfelves
. Conqueror? ; thy never have been accuflomed
to feel otherwise ; there was noi a Man among/1
j_ them but is ready to risk his Life at the Ther
e mopyht of his Country, and even, fneceffary,
to facrifice it on its Altar were it within
e the C mpafs of phyftcal Events that the Power
n oj France Jhqttld.pt evail, could we endure the
Sight of Americans pajfing under the Toke,
and decorating, with the m-etn spirited Holland
er or effeminate Ita/ion the triumphal C.a<- of the
r- Five Sultans.? Heavenforbid! The only Ca■
W pitulaticn with these Tyrants fhou.'d be, that
n which is sealed with the Blood of the Injl
ft American.
n Th-following are fame of the Toasts above
d referred to:
•? 1- The United States of America, the Eden
jr, of the Earth; m.iy our Independence prove the
'i f tal forbidden 1 1 ruit to alt who dare violate
r- it.
2* The en ightened Slatefnan, the Jleudy
h Patriot, the intrepid Champion of our Inde
-- pendence, the Minwrhont Fear and without
a- Repr ach—Johs Adams.
id $ Tbc Name of H'.ismvGTov, the Signaf
& °f Flight and Terror to the Foes of our Cuun
e. try.
S- 4, The American Navy; may il .enforce
RtJpeS to the American Fig.
~ 5. ihe \.:vy of Great-Britain, the For'
r- 'reft of unfubjugated Europe.
6 American Liberty; may Jhe never wear
jy the Garb of the counterfeiting French liar•
er lot.
f' 7 • May t/.-m Contempt of jacobinfm over*
take him, who would consent to meet tlj Ap
proacbes of Frsr.ch mpiety, or capitulate with
ry French "pp'Jfion.
8. Em iiuipj'tion and Peace to the wretched
ig end d Inhabitants of France.
n- 9. ihe £»gle of Am rwa. wl j only waits
f^ r * cc ' J 1 i I'c Cockr/a come win:in RcAcb of
:ir ' his 1 ~!?T t s s t, lay him yt his Fe
\
\ vli J lo ' and lVie I»Io- tefs
■/] -flsibat ;t teaches which a free ted
y tovernmnH can-at exijt. inde
I I It. If lb? French will haye 'Tribute Mo- eith
I Ly, let them come and take it. emj
11 / . BY THIS DAY'S MAIL.
NF.W.YORK, August 27.
■ In defaming the charadter of the Svvifs ; n
people ( I was going to fay nation !) our ja me >
I cobin prints quote from the French writers J
I employed by the Directory. From the tor;
H " refill" that has taken place in that coun- g rc
[ rry, the purity of that foarce of informati- pro
on becomej questionable ! the
Ei Both branchjypf thfe legiflittii'e of this idg'
state have ttnanimoufly agreed to address the mo
i President of the United States. of!
B The address breathes just indignation in j t i;
I regard to the infamous conduft of the tha
French towards this counrry—and a deter- up
mination to convince the world that we are sea
not a divided people. son
Refalutions are reported ia the Senate of li z ,
I this ft te for in (trusting our Senators and me
■ I Reprefeutatives in Congress to obtain an th<
I amendment to the C"n&itution, excluding tin
I from our councils all foreign influence.
I A Methodist Preacher, John Boler, was to
I call; in the Supreme court of this I!ate held ?u
in this city, in July, in the sum of three wi
I'l hundred pounds, for fcdu£tion, and aireach mi
of a prpmifc of marriage. L
A n PngliSh witT, commenting on General Do
■ I mciuri r's publication on the projected invaCou of
Fjj England, has the following frill remark* : m
■ •• The author, though he sluts favours the prac- ta
I ricability of tiv.t attempt, gives it as his opinion,
th.it it is thv iuWreft. of all theVett of Europe, and
■ particularly,of the maritime powers, that ie
■ gp t t ,j-e pbcor if it Hid, that it (hould not be i t j,
f-ecefsttil. The p-w.-rs of the continent too, lie „
I JLfcrvv"», faoje inrereft, The universal
buAruptcy which would follow, all the specie of ™
■ tli.. p » r .> 'it» hanJi of jl. natioif. whose avarice n<
know? no hounds, all power both by sea and la id Y
concentrated in her, \vouM leave no check to her
ambitios and cupidity, which have always increas
ed in proportion to her fucoceffes. The fall of all
throne, the annihilation of all political conliitutions, *
civil and religious, would He the melancholy re- tl
fult. Democracy would then devour Europe, and C
M would end by devouring itfelf."
- FROM A LONDON PAPER.
The hostile condudt of the French go
n vernment towards the United States confi
■ dered in' a political point of view, and with p
refpeft to the situation of the French Weft a
Jndia IflanJs, which entirely fubfilt on the
I supplies received from America, is the more
extraordinary, as it is so c° .'trary to the
interests of France. But if we view this fl
conduit as arifmg out of the spirit of the a
French revolution, it is easily accounted for. r
France is burthened with an enormous debt
"for provilions received from the Americans
in the course of this war, and American ci- c
tizens have also laid out very considerable t
sums in purchasing national estates itl t
France. In cafe of a war with America, ,
the Dire&ory will immediately suspend the
payment of the money due to America, and' (
-will sequestrate all American property in ,
I France The debt will thus be discharged,
and th> property fold, which are two very ,
valuable revolutionary advantages gained by
France. As to the French Weft India co
lonies, thev scarcely engage the attention of 1
the Direftory, France being without trade, ,
and likely to get some indemnification by .
She capture of the prizes.
In America, tKe publication of the cot
refpondence with France has' produced the
happiest effc&s ; and the conduit of the
mod violent oppofitiomlls in that | enale »
holds out a very laudable example for the
I imitation of others 111 this country- e
partisans of France c lied loudly for the
printing of the correspondence fr m the
American corhmulioners in France, luppo-
Gn? that their iJtflro&lAns were not ot that
conciliatory nature as ought to have been
jri-cn them. But no sooner was the cor
respondence made public, than two 01 the
leading opptfttion members rose to move
and leconu an address to the President of
' the United States, thanking htm for his
godlj conduit throughout the progrefe 10
I ' the negoci-tion. This is the la.elt news
from America, and we underload form a
part of Si. Robert Liftoa's d.fpatches, ot
'which his fecretat y was the bearer. Ihe
Congress has also unanimously paffed_all
the reftlufio'ns which are thought ncceffa y
to be popofeTl for preparing agait.lt a war
with France.. ,
It acucars that ihe modern ilgennes, as
they are^called in the Morn.ng 3h«n.ck
have plundered Enrope within theft three
vears of upwji Js of 25 mt non 3
Thev n wl.o 1 , towards America ; (h -uld
they'fail in the North, their g» od fr,e ™
the S uth, we have no doubt, will beobh
ged to pay f-v" their difappoir.tm nt. laK
of Egypt i—Mexica and Peru, .t w; Ibe
J f?und, are the ultimate obj-fts. Lou.han
and the Floridas open affcood a r oad to
left as to the right.
LEGISLATURE of NEW-VORK.
In Senate, 'vguft 1 1 th '
Whereas it is highly expedient that every
conflitutioM bani.r should be o PP°
our national covinctls, ana t r •
tion oi the United Spates <bon 3 amend
ed as n> effeA apd secure in rhebeft manner,
1 U e "St objeds for which it was designed;
' Jfolve'l, That the senators and repre
ftntDt've* of this state in the Cong-efs of
'tie Ui'ited States be, and they are hereby
re que lie J »o use their belt endeavors that
Concrrf* P'-»P ofe l " t,ie l?g ,fiat " rc . s !'
M llafes the following : mendmen to
,hc cQiiftituiion of the Un.red States MZ.
That (in addition to the other quahfica
tioos prefcribtd by the said coMl'tunon) no
perfo'is (hall h nafter he ehg,ble_, as Pre!.
Sent or Vice»Prsf|(leiit of th- Unite--, btat.s,
nor fi«U any perfoti be a senator or r.
tentative Id the Coflgrrfs cf the Jru ec
States, except a ilatur»i i»rn (ir '
.*' ' '
less he ft a!} !,avj been a etu'.ent in the Uni
ted States at theti;nc of the declaration of , \
independence, atid (hall have continued Por
either to reiide w-thiiVlhe farAd.Ooi' to be whe
employed • n its service from that period to (tuc
the time of his eledtion. cabl
And' whereas the spirit of amity and mu- fecc
tual cqocefii:>n which produced the federal 1
conftitQiion always to be cultivated; fom
in the propofiii >n arnl adoption of any a- day
meSdmenti to the fame : died
Resolved further, That in cafe the fena- e>l i
tors and reprefenta:ivis of this state in Con- ftan
grefs (hall th.'t the amendment above
'proposed is not peffetlly conformable to I
the wishes and of a conflitutional ! ginc
of both branches of the National
legillaWPe, they areTiereby riqfldfLd fa to aba
modify the fame as to meet the sentiment
of such majority. Provided, however, and
it is the wi(h and opinion of this legislature, Fxt
that any amendment which may be agreed b
up- n, (hould exclude at all events, from a ''
feat ia either branch of Congress, any per- 1
son who (hall not have been actually natura
lized, at the time of making this amend- Cu
ment, and have been admitted a citizen of f° ri
the U.iited States 14. years at least at the "i"
time of such eleftion. °PI
Resolved further, That his Excellency Ch
the Governor be arid he is hereby requested he
to communicate the foregoing resolves to the Fr
Supreme Executives of the Several dates, OB
with a requell, that the fame may be sub- in
mitted to the confederation of their refpeitive ag
Legidatures. And that the President of ~
the Senate and the Speaker of the Hon. the
AflVmbly be requested forthwith to trans
mit the fame to the Senator* and Rtprefen-
tatives of this state in Congress.
By order and on beha»f of the Senate.
STEPHEN VAN RENSSELAER, Piefidciit.
The bill agreed to in the committee of
; \ the whole in the Hotife of Assembly, on
I Saturday iaft for appropriating one million
i two hundred thousand dollars for the forti
fications and defence of this port of New-
I York, has been recommitted, ttiadc R
the order of the day for Taifday.
I The House of Assembly have not yet t'a
ken up the resolutions which have passed
- the Senate, relative to the amendnbot of the y
1 Conftitucion of the United States
JACOBIN MEEKNESS. S
Go/ben, Atigujl 14. {-
At a meeting of a large and refpedtable p
number of the freeholders and inhabitants
J of the town of Walkill, in Orange county,
at the house of Moses Phillips, Esq. on the q
e 4th day of Aug. 1798, in consequence of
e public notice having been given in order to J
e take into confederation the alarming"fituati- J
1S on of our country. Behold with horror the J
c attack maile on the Conftitutiori of the U- J
nited States, the freedom df-.fpecch and of
'' the press, and that war with France, the j
; s only nation that stepped forth to us in the
day of our distress, is become the order of j
e the day, are circumstances that renders it
unworthy every true American and friend
'■ to his country, to be an idle fpeftator.
Ie Therefore, Resolved, that the liberty of
fpeech and the prefs,thefe unalienable rights,
n we never will part with but with our lives.
Also Resolved, that in order to pave the
y way to remonstrate our grievances to our
y Representatives, that Co'. Wiliiam Faulkner,
3 " Andrew M'Cord, William Bodle, Israel
Wickham and Robert Crawford, be a com- 1
e * mittee to correspond with tiie other towns
'y and counties in the United States on this
fubjeft. j
ie BOSTON, August 12.
•e , May 12, 1798.
e » Extraft of a leltet from a well informed gen- \
tlrman on the otb.r Jidfrof the Atlantic, to a
le confidential friend here.
Ie >( Q rC at pains are used to induce Mr.
GERRY to be publicly received in irder
that while be is mocked -with an inlidious ap
t pearance of negociation, tbofe fatal div'fions in
en his country may be kept up, which threaten its
>r- fi na dejlrudion. These things are now per
he fedtly understood, but altho' they need no
,ve explanation, they demand deciiion and vi
°f gor, if the independence of the United
I ' s States is to be preserved. It is idle to wait
for unanimity which can never come ; yet,
ws whileyou wait, ruin may overtake you.—
a Moderation and forbearance have been tried,
ot till they have become danger us } they are
lle viewed as the marks of national weak»els,
all and invite the attack < f yotir destroyers,
try half way men, and half meafures must
' ar be ail discarded.
" The people of the United States have
38 b®afted of their lore of liberty and their
le ' country ;if they feel these sentiments as
rce they ought, they will escape the yop
I'• which France has prepared for them ; I
doubt whether in Europe, a nation can be
I found, which, after the warning they have
3 ''" had in the fufferings of ethers, would not
1,11 now resist Ihe tyranny of France if they
be were as distant from her power as the Ulti
ma ted States. But will your government be
'he faithful to iu high obligations, and aft upon
• this trying occasion with a suitable energy ?
We look anxiously for the aufwtr to tins
i. jnter:fting question, for it is certain, if the,
government tempo ifes. if it is weak and ti
ery if it (loops to its opp.-firs, if it wattes
to j (3 fpjrit in idle difcuffiaits, or in a word,
nto if it (tops (heft of the ohly true miafurs ali
tu - will be loft. The Directory expeft nothing
nd " but indecifton, and they want only a little
ier, more t ; me to fill the ne.y world with those
ed; /rr ors an 1 crimes which cover" the old.
"<• * Talleyrand fays, " there is nothing to
>re- l t feared from a nation lihe the United Slates,
' whose ReprefentatiiKS fp<nd their time in de
eby [latis, or who have been FOURyedrs budding
hat THREE Frigates. '
the * This bblet i'ition of Tilleyrand, was made
tto upon lis being intimated to him lately that the
viz Difpatihes had excited the spirit ot the people
of the United Sta'es and thit probably Ijhey
. would arm tor del'eace.
) MO .
The PHfideut of the United States, yesterday
,l " s ' attended a ltatnte meeting of the America
P rc ' \ a.'eir.y of Arts and Sciences at CambrKl,-c.
ied Wf are happy t» to be m
nft. good heal-hi
NORFOLK, Aug. 2r. [ .
Yefterdjy morning a duel was,io3gUt in •
Portsmouth between Col. W. and Mr. I;. , t
when after discharging a cafe of pistols each
(luckily without eff.tt) the affair was am,,
cably adjuded by the inrerfsrence cf t;:e
ft'eouds. v
Two fildiers at Fort Norfolk, having
some diffetencc,'as;ret"d to fettfe it on Saturn
day Salt, with their fidv arms—one of them
died on Su.iday kri: of the wounds he receiv
ed in the re icounter—the other, we under
hand is much hurt.
Spirit of the Times.
Lieutenant Hancock, of the Art; & En
gineers, has within th:s few davs, rsyrujted
of 20 stout young fellows in and
I about Kcmpsville.
an
RICHMOND, August 21,
ExtraS oj a Ister from a gentleman of refpeSa- ExU
bility, in one of the upper counties in the flute,
to a gentleman in this city, Hated Anguji 7th, <
1798. fort
" I have but lately returned fro n the be ei
Cumberland country, and am happy to in- boat
form you, that the people there appear una the
nimaus in favour of Government and muc i thin
oppofed'.to French measures. I law a ton
Chickafaw Indian who spoke good Englith, TJbc
he informed me there were a number of ness
Frenchmen come up to the Spanish Garrifou two
on the Mississippi . Somcof the.ll he expsfted fil ei
in his Nation, to engage t'oem in a war beei
againflthe United States." the
■ — 1 Rxi
PHILADELPHIA ,
r TUESDAY EVENING, Augufi 28. r
CITY-HOSPITAL REPORT,
From 27th to 2lßh August. bcl
ADMITTED. tJli
; Robert Mtioftf,' No.-' 178. NdrtL Front ft- tho
John Lambert, Morris's Brew-Koufe.
£dw. Call.iehan, Third ftt. 3 doors below
- south fiit.
: Mil's Crozier," 26, Walnut ftt. , \ the
Michael Troe.pt, North Front, above Cal- , 1C
lowhillftt. hoi
Sarah Syphord, 50, Spruce ftt. ' dif
Henry Bredaw, 631 South ftt. ill
e Peter Pafton, (hip Mary Ann. Vine street to[
i wharf. th'
, DIED.
e Charles Steward,-ill 5 days previous to ad. #
Margaret Ste«aft,"' 2 do.
5 John Moore, 7 do. Ti
• James M'Cane, 8 do. _ t! 1
e £yJifs Crozier, died 4 hours after admif.
■ Robert Moore, 6 do. so '
f Eloped—John (a Lascar) tcl
e Remaining in City Hospital 65, 20 of th
e whom are on the recovery. I ly
'f Interred — j ■ tr:
it From City Hofpit-1 6 w
d City & Liberties 12
r , T~ ; be
» Total, io G
5, PHILIP S. PHY SICK.
SAMUEL COOPER. k
,e JAMES THOMPSON, Steward. ;1
ir By order of the Board of Managers, lh
r, Wm. JONES, President. v
el Attest,
i- Wm. Penrose, Clerk pro tem. t(
is ft
is Buried in the several Chu ch burying ri
grounds, exclusive of thofc ,at the Hospital -
for the 24 liour3 ei.ding at 8 o'clock' last e- li
venir.g—9 adults
SIXT "i tiesv cases reported by 25 Phy>
"■ ficians, for the last 24 hours.
HEALTH OFFICE,
[r. 22d Augutt, 1798.
' ir WHEREAS it has been rcprcler.ted to
t this board that several perlous have already
in been seized with the malignant fever who had
to gone into the country for fjfety, and who it >
Er ' is presumed had taken the disease bef, re ihey ]
no left the city,and it being probable that dttier
vi " cases of a similar nature may occur—There- (
e fore .
a 't Resolved, That the Phyfscians ac the Ci
:t > ty Hospital be authorized and dirtdUd to'
receive any ftifili pei son or perfops coming
from the country,. i |
' re By order of the Board of Managers, |
Is, Wm. JONES, President.
rs. Attest, Timothy Paxfon, Clerk.
uft
DIED, Jacob Servoss, Esq.
ave t Mil's Nancv Roney, at German
icir town,
as
ik" By DireSion of the General Board of Guardi
; I ans
be THE Public are informed that Tents
ave are now eretted near the Banks of Schuyt
oot kill and that it will be necessary for any
he/ perfoh or family, who wish to r move there,
n '" to produce a recommendation Irom fo.ne
be refpedtable Citizens • either 6f the follow
?on ing Committee,
IY,- Philadelphia, Aug. 24, 1798.
this The Committee who nave ckaige ol the Ten's
the, ivill be much obliged to such of their fellow
-Iti citizen,, ulu may have any ftriw todifpofe of,
ft eo if they wilt be kin 1 enough to Tend ato the
1 Tents, on the Commons r»c»ir thc Powder llou-e
as the'time is puch wanted to make the filua -
". a tion of the Poor comfortable.
By Ji der of the Coir.mitt, e,
ittle PEi'EK MIEKCKEN, chairman.
10 fe
A correspondent of the Aurhra from the true
7to cut throat principles ft hieh animate the writers
itt, in our foreign Gazettes, proposed yellerd.y
j, • hat the whole fadUon Ihouid arm— 1 his day, a
, correlpondeiit m the fame paper of the lame cut
"V infinnates that thc State of Virginia .. arming
agiinft the other States. There has been a f«-
nade ~J S at f sew York, at the Old Li'ffee Houle, in
the * hich a number of persons, said to be foreign
°Ple ers, felt upon a citizen, supposed with a design
>h«y t« destroy hifc- Burk, the " T.-me lita man
fays, that 900 United Iriftmen can be produe
e;l if necessary %*ert, Whether perimis o.
rday t his description are uieie the Aurora prop Its 10
•icin jjm. As to the Stale of Virginia, the lo.eig.-.
id.'e. jiiij will find ilßirrtelves millaken in cor.r.ut;;
be in U p o 7i iter co>opeiali'.n in their vilUwWUi dtf gr.s
J)3XATIONS, \ I <- rang.
Hecjivtd ihe Teats near Sj.hu yll ill for t>.e r .l,
• «fc of the PooK ■ ' , Thc
August 15. Oi>: Waggon loidof >':rsw froja .
Germanwwfl', by Tct*-h Ca*e 1 lan
Esquire. „ * nd „. 3
One Cart-taad of S-:r*y from Ger- (luffi
rnantownby an nnklowil perfoo tiiaa
One Waggon lead of Straw lepof- there,
ited at Schuylkill 3ttdge, by an ce H cn
unknown perl'on.
One load of .Straw bl Mr Salomon , '
Marks.
Ofie load of Strawfrem General g 3 " l :
Jacob Morgan. bs th
17. One load of straw from Judge when
Williams. ,» r be kn
One Joad of Straw, frc rn Tencli <j>j ;
Cojte, Esq. , • ,
By Older of the Committee,'
" I'j&Jik M IEUGKEN, . g ul!d '
august »f- ' IVC y
_ of th
Extiaft of a letter from Cincinnati, uorth wejlerh count
territory Augujl 2, 1798.
" A fublcripii >n is opened in this town iQ
for the purpose it raffing a sura ol money to
be employed in Wilding a Galley, or Gun-
boat, to.be offered to the Prefidsrtl for- pj Bt j,
the Use of the United States, (hoUld he
think proper to employ an addi
tonal force of his kind 011 the Mississippi.
T)he fubfeription is now in great torward
nefs, 1600 d .llas have been subscribed in Brig,
two dcys, I hax 110 doubt but it will i e Sali.
fil ed iu a fiiort lime. The Governor has .SI joj
been requsfted tq announce the intehtida of .| . '
the Citizens to tie Prefidtnt " !
ExtraS of a letter from Newport, Aug: 21. p|
•« The Co I:dilution frigate has jult put g t
in here to wood aid water, after a cruise to
the fouthward—iha saluted the fort wi.h ij
guns, which werf rcumed by capt. Littk- A
field with the fane number. She remains Abij
here only three diys." * with
the
AURORA, i- Phil
The French fleet probably reached Ireland a- ne
beut the 7th of June —at lead we have heard no
thing Cfi.ee 10 mat* na chijjge our opinion,
though" uiis is the ißttv of . vfljjult. ~
07NEH GAZSI TEt < _ *
A veflel paiTed Cork the nth of June and saw 1 liam
'nothing of the French—A veflel leVLifboa the ! on t
1 sth July and Brought accounts th.i. they were ! g
then in the Mediterranean —Capt lbpkins fay« j g
" he counted the French fleet as they isffed Leg- ;
horn the beg'nnjng of June —And now, aSwe
difh captain is jiilt arrived who. left jjalaga the J
lit July and fays that while there, h; was in- we
I formed (hatttdniiral Nelfan had sal e» in with, the
and taken four tail of the French fleet and that cari
the fleet had put back to Leghorn andCorlica. ,jj
AURORA. " i . •
• 1 The captains of veflels are often inpofed on ;
—but they mort frequently impose onothers —
Thev are in the employ of Merchant* are to 1
afraid to tell the truth unless it is agiinft the Set
[ t French! ! ! So much for captain's reports Slo
But all these captains may have been deceived ;
for the Frer.eh have several fleets in tie Medi-
terranean besides Buonaparte's. First, there is .
'' . the Ancona fleet bound to take Malta—Second
! ly, a fleet of One Hundred and Twenty armed a,h
transports from Marseilles —bffldes io ship? of wh
war and 76 transports fromCivita Vecchia—and ver
a squadron of frigates and a large number of me
transports at Corsica. Some of these fleets have
; been i'ecn and mistaken by these captains for the ,
Grand Fleet itlelf.
The Grand Fleet tave found out a way of e
luding the Engliih—the latter flupidlyi supposed
the French would leave Gorfica and Sardinia to
1 the liaft, and tome boldly l y the very route
vhere the English would wait for them —No, J,a
no —The Freuth know better than this —they ar|
have left those Ulands to the Weft, and tailing ,
to the Coast of Africa (though they form a 0
ftrmg of fifty leagues in length) they have, all
ig tun through the Gut of Gibraltar in the nipht ve
al —given the blind bullies, the Knglilb the flip fu
e . and reached Ireland about the 7th June 1L 1 th
th
j. mfiii W
FURTHER VRANSLATIONS, g
From Papers by the Ship PenNsTl, r ANIA-. j,
MILAN, May 14.
5° The intelligence is confirmtd.or a rew
conventiojn concluded between the Frmch
aa republic and Naples, agreeably to which the w
' flatter is to pay twenty roillion* of livres to t |
j die republic, and to remai i in puffefSon of
' tr j the town and callle of Bcneventi, which al n
ie " though surround. dby the Neapolitan terri-
tory, formerly was (übjcdt to the Pope.
M;:y 18.
L ° Citizen Trouvc ar ived last Monday from
I>g Naples, is to ttay here as French niinifler (
near the Cijalpine republit The French •
1 ambaff.idor Garat has been received at Na
pi s, iu the moll • illiiigutfhed manner.
ROME, May 16. 1
Our public treasury which was hitherto
an " in the hards of the French has been deli
vered up to our miniftcr of finances. The
palace and ellate of the MarlKfe order in this *
rct ~ capital has been confiscated and ftals have
been put 011 all the effects' by order of the
" ts French commander in chief,
jyl-
Th; precious priming apparatus, the only (
al, y one of its kind, vi our ci-devant Propaganda,
? e ' which is provided with types and
,ine requisite for printing books in twenty eight
3W " ditttrent. particularly oriental, langu iges,
wiil be traufported to Paris a*d fix of the
oriental compofitovs employed ii that branch
Cll have already set off lor
° ( W t " taius the letters for print ing in the extremely
,hL- difficult, Siinlkiit language, t'hich has fix
nufe tten vowelfand thirty four conforAnts, and
lua- wa. formerly either thc common tongue a
oiong the Hi;idoo» or inveuttd by the Bra
mas for the purpose of recording therein
v their philofuphical and religious nayileries.
true AMSTERDAM, March 49.
iters
djy A letter from Arangues lias been publilh
ty, a e( j here, wherein the Iflatid of Yvica U de
e cul fcrlbed as a little Jewel in the Mediterranean
m ' ns S e a: " Yvica," fays the letter, «• is a^free
c ; n port, where every ttfog >s imported duly j
;i'gn- free, and fr« m whence it Is cafy to forward
efign great quantities of mercha idize to toe neigh
man bouring coasts ot \ alencia a-.id Catalonia.
)due 'llie fine and foiid fait of this p'ace, is col
,s 0 ltftcd in a large magaziut so convei lently
10 lituated on the coast. that a vessel may take
r.tin a fall carg.» h2+ hours. The Inn lately
f cr.s built here, is the tjnsli of Spain } the ligs,
r ranges, lemois, slnr.ar.is aapit* aod .V
<»f thj iSsnd are the of the whole tv
The cotton of \ vica 's better and * 1
than that of the LVv;tnt aotl the Wei T
and a cotton minaf.vfty.re, which- fr
ftuffs a good ;!•- ihe English and clttrii-..
tiiaa theirs, lias already. been eftii«l?T- r t
there. The wiae of tie is aim ex
cellent. We could wish therefore, that ov.s
or more mercantile hoofs* of Batavii fhoulJ
eftabliih themselves there before the En»lilh.
gain time to nestle in that place, which will
bj the cafe alter tbe cc cluhon of pea<;e,
when the importance of the fettleraent (hall
be known"
The honfe of the widow Croefe and Co.
is {now raising a loan of tli ee millions of
guilders, at 4 per cent and lo be icp id in
live years, for the Spanilh court. The ftm
of the Count de Cabarras is on that ac
count expe&ed here.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
Arrived at the Fort, barque Mars, capt,
Hathaway, from the Isle Oi May, 33 oay.
palTage. No news.
Nov York, Augujl 17.
ARRIVED vats.
Brig.Alrona, Koen, Lisbon 70
Salii .Swallow, LefHngwell, Norfolk 3
SI x>p Maria, Steveus, Philadelphia (>
C»pt Liffi igweli spoke the brig Wilium. who
is arr.vsd in Himpton Roads, h-snn Gibraltar,
likewise brig Eliza, Wrigtil, 60 days it' in tl»'
, deirj.
riieOjip Hizen,. from Bativia and
St Helena, is arrived at -ilea,
IVUmir.gtcn, Sugujl 25.
Arrived at New-Cattle la It evening, brig-
Abigail, Bibcock, 77 da s from Belfil,
wiih 10 pafiVugers. Left there June 6th,
the Ship Swajtvvick, Jeughlin, ot and lor
Philadelphia, to fail next day—brings no
ne « s.
Norfolk, Hugujl 21.
Arrived on Saturday the fcho>ner Wil«
' liain, capt. Linnel, from Currac.'a ; lailed
: : on the 26th July, in company with
: I Brig Six Brothers, Ncedlium, for Saiem.
' | Sch'r. Betley, Howland, fir Biifto .
. ; St. Patrick, Burn, tor Ntw-Yorl^.
; j Just after leaving the harbour, and > lore
; we got up with the weft, end of the island,
> the mainmast of the brig Six Brothers was
c carried away jult below the uain top, which
" , oblige capt. Needham u< bear away, net
! being able to fetch Mon 1 paflage
Left at Curracoa the foHo.ing veflels all
e ! to fail for New-Vork in a tew days:
e j Schooner Determined Rover, Dixou.
~ Sloop Cornelia, Saunders.
.• Polly, Balden.
!' Capt. Dixon, of the Determined Rover,
l_ as he was coming into (Jurrac. a was chafed
afhore by a French privateer, tne crew of
>f which took polTeflion of her; but the Go
d vernor feut 15 soldiers who secured 9 French
men, put them in jail, and got the schooner
,e off with little or no damage ; she had 40,000
lc dollars worth of Englilh dry goods 011 board.
id ExtraS of a letter from Curracoa, dated July
to 27, received by the above veffet.
,te " In confluence of French privateers
°> having Wcome very tronblefome, hattivies
e y are er«£ted on the south fide at the distance
of three E glifn miles from the south east
jll end of ihe island to the harbour ; the go
ht vemment have by thtir att in wri £ .g, af
lip fured the American citizens redding here,
that they may enj«y in the fulled manner
the tfeVft of the 18th article of oar treaty
with Holland, done at the Hague on the
Bth October, 1782, although a war may in
the interim break out between America and
k France. This for the government of frietids
who may wilh'to advenlufe here."
cj* The extraA from Doftcr Green's
fer . on, publilhtd in. yelterday's Gazette,
was copied from an Eaftero paper.— In
the. 11th line of the ExtrnSt, the word
worth "occurs, which 011 examining the ier
mon as printed by Mr. Ormrud, has been
rr ' toiltcd in by the Eallern printer.
& A meeting of the Merchants, Tia
n" 1 ders, Meci amcs, and other titizcnn of Phi-
that are fritn's ti> t!ir conltitu
!?? tion and government of th United States,
, 3 ' is rcqiiellcd at the U ion School houl'e in
Gtr.ti»ntuwu, 011 Wednefilay next 29th
Augcft, at 4 o'clock P. M.
. rto NOTICE,'
leli- Bank of the United States,
Hie si"!!'-/? 28, 1798.
this 'T'HOSE perfdns who have Notes or hills to
, a , e A pay at lhii Bank, are informed,
the That regular Noiices will be put under a seal
ed cover directed to the refpeitlivt paytr ami
lodged in the Post Office every Monday until
>n 'y the retaru of the Citizen*.
nda, G. SIMPSQV, ctjhitr»
ther august 8 = a\> ; f
igi>t FLOUR FOR SALL
£ es ' By the Subfirib rt,
Dclivcnhle at anv of the ports on the Dela
inch ware—who have also on hainl at tlieir (lores, a
con- quantity of Bar Iron/Pork and Corn—Letters by
roely the pott will be at tended to.
fix. Levi Holiingsivortb £sf Son.
and augufe dtf
je a- Arrived in the Jbip Pmtfylvania, Cap!. Wi l-
Bra- li am son, from Hamburgh, new lying at
erein Glofier Point—
[eg, \ Mumbcr of GERM AN SERVANTS, men,
t\. women, boys and gir'«, whom ire
Gui.fmiths, Carpcnu-r<, t urn'ri, Tvyk'rs, Blick
feniths, Gardeners, Masons, Coachmen, Hun t:Rjen,
blifll- &c. &c. whefetime of i'erritucls is to be dif,.ofed
j de- of on board the ship, by
, oean G UR NE T is! S MITII.
a free j>ugutt it. ..
duty !p- The Ufßce of the Board of
1 ward Cominillioner» und«r the 6li Arti« le of the I r:a
ieicb- ty <f Amity, ite. betweenOreat-biitain ai d the
I ■ Unit .d f.tates, ii removed to the bftul;- of Matthew
M-CoKn.ll, E:» on the livlord Koad.
« C °'- » BC 16 ■ ,* -
,enl ' y (£}• i'he office of the lniurancii
r . t3 i e C- mrary of tbe Mate of PennfvU. ila,' '°v
lately „ (u |( ,. ciriKr of MirUi I«*'■ ■ :irk
e fig«> it* /Uj{uu 13.Lands forfait by priv ate Contract*
rto-r-n.laU will be tee jved, by the luL»iCr;iber»
ti...' :«« !.:n itay'of September next, for the
»i're t '*««. of «»y°-f the following very valuable
trait# 01 iand-y' iih tS;>( improvements. ■
ta die State ®f New-York,
No. i. two lots of ground fitirate in the
county of Albany in the town called Lanfing
bur;:h, and difluiguiflied or kn&wn on a map ef
feii! town by the names of No. 71 and 71.
2. Two traits of land situate in the town of
We'l-Cheller, the one of them near Oliver De
hrvcy's, John Cox's and John Palmer's latld, ad
joining Brouhs River, the othar of them near
Devihrd's' fnuff mill, Delancy's land and ad
joinfSg Brouh's river the whole containing about
84 acre's.
A trait of land situate in the county of
Weft-ChePer, tin the road from Kmgs-Sricige
toDe'-mcy's Mills containing about acres.
4 A trail of land situate in Montgomery
ounty, being apart of the trail called jefftip's
urchale arid known and dillinguifhed in adivi
on of the said p irehafe into tuwflihipsby being
art'of townlhip No. 4. beginning at the S. VV.
ounis of said purchjfe and at the southerly cor
ner of laid townlhip containing by estimation
aboutjiil aces.
5. A trail of land situate in the county of
Montgomery, aii.rrefaid, being also a pan of
JefCipi's p.urchafe and known and distinguished
in divifioiv of tiie said purclufe into townships,
by being p"rt of townfh'p No. 31 bejiunin,' at
S. W. bounds of laid to wnfhip.at thediftvtce of
2t - i'.t• 'll s" and 50 links from the moil southerly
Corner thereof.
<t. A trait of land situate In U!(ler county,
liei -g p4i-t of the trail of In ad known by the
nameof th,; Great or Mardenbutghs patent,con
taining about 600 c aires.
7. A trail of land fitua'e in the county of
Ullltr afcrefaid on the N. E. fide of the river
• Ucl-i ware, being also a part of the land ti riner
y granted to' Johannes Hardenbargh and others
commonly known by rhe name of the Green
patpnt it being a parr of a great lot No. 1. at
the general partiii 11 of said patent which came
to the share of 1 homa. Newharn one of the
propneto s, and is knsw-< and di(ling«i{hed on
the m:fs of the tub divilion thersof made by
Charles Webb, fun eynr in the year 17; I by
lot So 60 ; this land 1 uns fame dillar.ee on the
river Delaware and contains aboat 3:57 acres.
8. A trail of l.ir.d in the county of Ulster a.-
forefaid in the fout'n tier of lutein the Harden
burgh patent being the lot No. 12, containing
about I2,6i.o'aores excepting thereout 320 acres
heretofore gtvit by Robert R. Livingfton to
Nathaniel S ichrl.
9. \ trait of land situate in the county of Ul
ftrr, b.-pinnin g on. tie Papeknnk rivtr, ami ad
joining tne 14th monument in the general divi
fi'ou of the Hrdenburgh patent, containing
. abfmt 3 pccj acres.
ic Two equal undivided seventh parts of two
feversl parcels of lands situate in the townships
1 f Chemung in lire county f f Tioga on the S.
W. fide of Tioga river, the fame being part of
2 trait of about 2c,000 acres, these two fe\enth;
crntain about 3 763 acres.
i;. Oik' equal ar.d .1111 divided seventh part of
the fuel 20,000 acre trail in Tioga county being
about 2,'886 acres.
Iz. One equal and undivided seventh part of
said '20,00$ ifcre trait in Tioga county being al
so abyut 2,836 acri s.
In tiler State of Maryland.
13. A rail of land now called Bayley's pur
chafein-jPrint-e George's county, near to .a .fay
or cove called, Awoeoflin cove, containing about
1212 acres of prime land.
14. A trail of land called Fortune Enlarged,
and part of a'.rait called Beall's adventure en-
Jati.i I', .both lying in Prince Georgs's county on
the eailerp btanch of the Potomack, containing
aboat .5 I 6 acres.
75. A trail of land with the bonfe and im
provement called Arcn, lying dr. the ealterr,
branch of the river Potomack, opjiofite to the
city i f Washington in Prince George's county
containing about 75' acres.
:6. A 'rail of land wtih the houses, mills,
other buildings and improvements lying near
Fort Cumberland, in the .county of Washington
containing about acres.
17. A trail of .land situate in the county of
VeaTlipgtr.n, adjoining to Fort Cumberland,
com 'nine 4ca'acres or thereabouts.
18. fine iindivide,l moiety of a trail of land
in Allegany county, called spruce fprinj% the
■vhole or which contnins about 120 acres, also
one undivided ijioiefy «f it,'* trails Or lots of
p-ound, e j.iiof which contains about 50 acres,
rill are numbered from 500 to 799 inclusive,
o lttii'g and;excepting three lots which aredif
tingu.O ed by the number? 66x, 662 and 684 all
Whjth fa'it lands adjoin.
In the State of Virginia-
A trail of Vlsidow laiid with eonliderable
improvements, ! ying 011 Hunter's creek,Dorrell's
c-eek, Mutidy creek and the river Fotomack ;
and adjoining the city cf Alexandria containing
by patent 29? acres.
Edward Fox, auctioneer.
PbUaJflpbia, June stb> 1.798- 2aw
ADVEIvTISEM ent.
WH3IREAS David and Joiin Graham, late
of the city of Philadelphia, merchants,
have afligr.ed ©ver all their fcffcils, real a*nd per
sonal, to the fubferibers, for the benefit of their
creditors—
Notice is hereby given,
To ail perrons who are indebted to said eflate,
that they are re quired to make immediate payment
o; their fefpeilive dehts'to the adignets at their of
fice No. 62 Dock-flrcet In failure whereof,legal
tn.afures willjbe tali 'll tor the recovery of such as
are no- immediately r'ifcharged.
SINIONW.-M.KEU, ~S Afiigneesof
Cl'A tLE - GU.CHRIST, C David & JOHN
g::orge Humphreys,) g«au«.
jiily 7. tth jc> ifep.
Samuel Richardet,
yXFOHMS his friesels and the public, that for
JL thoir acwmtnodatii h, a mtffcng<r, with a let
ter tag, will leave hishoufe at half pad ten o'clock,
(cr Pliiadr.'p tia. Any gentleman giving ord rs
at the poll-oflicefor his letters to be put in Rirhar
,ti t's bag, may receive them in Gsrmantown by
tire o'clock in the nl'terncon.
Germantown, august 16 3t
FOR SALE.
A THREE Story Brick House, on the north
t fide of Spruce-street near Second-flreet,
Viijoiniio: the wall ef Mr. Jones's garden and
formerly occupied by David Lenox, tfq.-—This
bonie is'iii compleat repair with back buildings,
confining of a l'iazza, Kitchen andahandfome
Dinii g Room over the Kitchen.
Asanv Person inclined topurchafewill view
thei)reii»des,a wore particular defei iption iscon
fidered unneceilary.
The terms of payment w be one third cash,
»• e third in 6 months and the remainder in 12
mu.iths with ir.tereft. For further information,
inquire of JOKXCR/11G,
Aa. 1 i
way:6 $
' PROPOSALS,
!
- BY THE
I Infztrante 'Company of North America.
fit iNiiur.t.'CE agairffl Firs, on Dwellinir-
Mo'.lis. Vvars-T'oufes, and other Buildings (ami
on Goods c nirjned in such Buildings) dillant from
Philadelphia, in the United Siates.
T. Comnvn lufurancet, on hazards of the firft
e'afs, will )d ( undertaken at a premium of about
halt per cent per anrum. For extra hazardous
rilnr.es a larjer pretrinm will be required, which
wiil vaiy aciprdi.ng to circu-nftanees, feidora ex
ceeding one pr cent, per annum ; but i:i Jome in
(lar.ces, wher( the property irfured is not only in,
itfdf extra h;pardous, iut rendered still mor 'so
by the vicinity of extra hazardous buiidings and
occupatiops, the premium demanded will be railed
according tocircumllarces.
Houses and V.'ai'e- Hnules, the walls and purti
tions of which are wholly of stone or brick, well
cunftruiled, Co as to be guarded as well as may be
againlt fires from within, and free from extra ha
zardous buildings and occcupuions in their neigh
borhood, will be deemed hazardous of the firil
clafsj i"d may be infnred to t'.eir full value.
Also Goods and Merchandze, not o' an extra
hazardous kiud, in calks, bats, or packag' % de
pofitcd in such buildings, to kn amount r.ot ex
ceeding 4000 dollars; but if bore than this sum
is required to be insured in onetenemcnt, au adeli
ticmal premium will be require}, in proportion to
circurriihnces.
11. Insurances will also be nude on buildings and
goods extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to tha risque. But it is Rot <»fy to arrange these
under particular heads or elates, so as to deliftibe
each withthe necefTary accur::y. Each caf~ must
therefore be decided upon accirdiqgto the circum
flanccsa-tcndinjr it; and their circumstances wili,
1 in general, appear from the lefcription aecompa
uying tleapplication.
Buildings partly Conftruiltd of brick or (lone,
are preferable to those whol'V wooder. And in
both cases, ths "lie of building, how they are 9c
cwpied, how they are fitusEd, the neighboring
buildings, andhow occupied, are confidcratiohs to
be taken into view. And tvith refyeit to goods,
their tenuiney, whether il-om their «r
from the manner in which they are exposed, either
to commence or to increase an aceidencal fire, and
their liability in such slate to receive damage by
wet, or.'ov sudden and hafly rerfioval, or to be fto-
Icn in time of confufion and hurry, are all cir
cumflanccs of weight ; and the premiums rnufl be
proportioned accordingly.
HI. The following conditiont are to be under
flcod by th/ parties. .
ill. Th/Infurance is net binding till t!?.e flipu
hitsd premum be raid ; but it fliall be deemed ef
fectual frill the time of such payment and accep
tance whether the policy be immediately
signed orpot.
2d. lifurances may be renewed at the expira
tion of the term of the policy, without further ex
penses tfan the payment of the premium of the re
newed firm, the circumftancescontinuing the fame
as they wereanderflood by the Insurers at the time
the farmer insurance was made ; but the payment
of the jremium is effeiuial to such renewal ; and
if the ptrty insured fuffers any time to elapse after
the expiation of the former insurance, before he
pays a [remium for the renewal, he is-not insured
during such time; nor can the insurance be renew
ed en the former policy but by compvting 'he
commencement of the reuewal frfim rhe expiration
of the former insurance. The fubjeil of insur
ance may neVfTthilcfs be open to tre;,ty for a new
insurance.
3d. If any other insurance ,be.made.on the fame
property ; it mud be n-.ade known at the t/me of
application, otherwise the policy made on such ap
plication will be void.
4t'h Goods held in trtifl, or on confignmeht,
raay be insured as inch in a separate policy ; but
they ate not t®j?e confidergd 15 insured stherwa'fe.
sth. This company will not be liable or accoun
table for any ldfs or damage by any for
eign iuvauQii, or by any military or ufarped force
or by pealbn of any civil commotion ; of occasion,
ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or other thing ofth
like kind kept 111 the building, or amongst the pro
perty infured'.
tith. Bills of Exchange, Bondi and other Secu
rities, Title Difids, Money, Bank and other pro
missory Notes, are not included in any insurance ;
nor are paintings, medals, jeweb, gems, antique
curiofitius, or mirrors exceeding tlie value of twen
ty-live dollarseach, to be considered as insured une
less particularly mentioned and by Cpccial agree
ment.
No infnrance will be mlde for a shorter
term than one year, nor for a longer term than se
ven years. Persons choosing to inAnre for seven
y«ars lhall be allowed one year's premium by way
of difeount: One third of a years premium lhall
be abated m like manner on an inftirance for
three years.
Bth. I.offers fuflained by fire on property insured,
shall be paid in thirty days affer due prouf and li
quidation thereof, without deduilion.
A defciiption of the property to be infurod will
be expfiled with sach application, to be made by
a maflcr carpenter and signed by him, as well as
hy the owner of the building ot applicant for in
surance, and attefled before a Notary or principal
Magiflrate, who will ce-rtify his knowledge of the
parties and their credibility.
With relpeil to Houses and other Buildings,
lit. The Bte and position ; describing the
street or road on or near which the building
Hands ; its contiguity to water, and other cir
cumstances relative to the extinguishment of fire
in cafe of accident / and particulai ly whether
any and what fire companies are established, and
enginesprovided,in the place or neighbourhood.
id. The materials of which it is byilt, whe
ther of brii k, (lone or wood, and what part of
each, as well as to the outfidc walls as in fide or
partition walls, and their refpedlive height and
thickness ; the llyle of the roof and of what
materials; bpwfecured by battlements or par
ty walls ; what kind of access to ihe top of the
house and to the chimnies ; whether any and
what eleilric >ods ; the number and kind of
fir: places ; and the kind of depolit for ashes.
3d. Ihe dimtnfi' ns of the building and how
divided, and the flyle in which it is finifhed so
as to enable imlinereut persons to j'/dge in what
manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury; the .'ge and condition of the building,
and how occupied, whether merely as a dwel
ling house, or for any other, and for what ptir
pofe , also an ellimate of the value cf the house
or building independent of the ground.
4th. Tlie Stuation w ifli refpeta to other build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
'not, comprehending at leait one hundred feet
each way : what kind of buildings are within
that distance, how what,material?,apd
how occupied or improved, whether as dwel
lings for private families or otherwise : whe
ther auy ar./l \Vfcat trade cr manufailory is car
ried on, and particularly whether there be any
extra hazardous articles used, or uftially depo
sited in the house, or within the distance afore
faid, and of what kind.
Relpeilinggoods in Houses, Vv arehoufes, &c.
1. A f-ener.-i! description of the building in
which they are kept will beexpeiled, similar in
all relpeils.as to the danger from fire, with that
required for Infuianee on the buildings thern
felves. j.
A defciiption of the kinds and nature of
the gliosis, calks or other packages,
or opened'; and whether displayed in whole
pieces or in ths uinal form for retailing. And
if Ihe gootls vary materially in kind, a general
eJlimate of the value of each kiad prspofed to
he info red ; hut in the h!l psrtied»»nr.in<4t«J' ,
nrft of description is not jgSjkfted: I
.1. Articles of the !<ii.-Uafe <!eetn:"
■ ed extra hazardous, though in various dtsretu,
in whaitfyer bwildiHg they rriay he placed, viz.
pitch, ta#. turnMi.ti.Ne, rolui, talloU', oil',
infl-an.inrthle lpirtts, fulphlr, hemp,'fiax, cotton,
dry goods of an inflammable kin ! opened
Gl'.ls, cipna ware or porcelain,"especially un
picked; Locking glafits, jewelery • and all o-
Jlier articles mors than commonly inflammable,
or u ore than commonly ! (>le to injury by sud
den removal or by moirtures, or particularly
obnoxious to theft on 311 alarm qf fire.
Letters post paid, direiled to the Secretary ol
the Board of Direitors, wiil be duly attended
to. An order for accompanied l>v the
means of paying the premium, will be imme
diately executed on tiie premium heing paid. If
'the application contain an enquiry only, it wrtl
be answered.
By order of the Board,
F.BENEZEa HAZAiin, Src'rj-
OJJice of the Infuranee Company (i/"Nort» )
America ; Philad. Feb. 1, 1798. 5
Feb. 14. ianitf
James C. Iff Sa?;d. IV. Fi/her,
No.- 13 Arch-Street,
Have for Sale
200 Calks belt refined .Salt l'etre
Bell London Window Glass from by Bto
12 by 10
Ditto Glass Ware in Cases alTorted con filling
of pint and half-pint Tumblers, Wine
Glaffts, Goblets, See.
A L $ O,
A fewßalesof Red, Whiteand Yellow Flan
nels, Baizes and Kendall Cottons,
june 27 .:awtf
Patent Ploughs,
O '
he fold for cash by Joseph Salter at Atfion
Richard Wells, Cooper's
Harker, Woodbury—and Jefle Evans, Lumber
ton, Those who haveufed them give them the
preference to any other kind, as they lequire
Ifffs the ground better, are kept in
wrder at iefs «xpence and are fold at a cheaper
rate —the plan is much fimpliiied anil consists of
but one piece of cast iron, with the handles and
beam rif wood ; they may befixed with wrought
lays and coulters to be put on with screws and
taken off ar pleasure
P.itent rights for vcadiwg inftradlions for
makinjr tli<!iii may be had by applying to John
Newbold, or the fubferiher No. 212 North
Fsont-ftreet.
Who has for Sa/ei
Or to Lease fir a term nf Years,
A number of valuable trails of Land, well
fitilated far Mills, Iron tVorksor Farms, mnft
iy improved, lying chiefly in the county of Hun
tingdon Hate of Pennsylvania. Those who may
incline to view them w ill please to apply to
John Caoan esq. near Huntingdon.
Charles Netulold.
July 17 2awtf
Mills, Portage, cVc.
TO BE LEASED FOR A TERM OF TEARS.
T O be leafed, for a term -not less than three,
nor more than foven years, a VALUABLE
PROPERTY at the tfer.eca-FaHs, in the (county of
Onotidajro, and flate.of -N-vv-Vork, 011 the Banks
of the Sense two triles welt of (heCayugar
feiYy, and eleven u.ilcscall of Grr.eva.
This ellubHmmeat confer of ail excellent grill
mill, saw mill, dwelling-house, bam, find a port
age or ?arryjr.g place, with between thirty and
forty acres of land, under good improvement, and
as much more in the vicinity, as may be required
for future improvement.
The griil mill is a handsome, new and well fin
ithed building, of 50 by 30 feet, 3 flories hi»h
ana. ."vrt.iilii'd with a run of excellent Burr stones
andiipotber of Efopus' stones, of the hell quality
—and the moll'approved boalts, &e. calculated to
make all the different qualities of flour for expor
tation or for home conl'omption : Itis accessible by
water from every part of the Cayuga lake and Se r
neca-river, as well as from the Seneca-lake—and
fromits situation, commands a veryexteufive and
encreafing cuttom : The flream on which it .Hands,
being the outlet of the Seneca-lake, the mill cau
never be in want ©f water ; and a-3 it has been kept
working during the fevers.'! feafor. of the lalt win
ter, it is not liable to be impeded by froil :
The saw mill is alf# new, situated on the fame
flream, now furnifhed with an ample flock of
logs, of which a supply may at ail times be pro
cured by land or water, of the bed quality :
The dwelling house is well calculated for theufe
of the miller, is new, and fufficiently laige : The
barn is about 40 feet square, and entirely new :
The portage is >4tas of a mile in length, along
the Seneca-falls—over which were palled in the
lafl year, rearly two hundred hoats with their
contents ; this objeiil is already produ#iva of a
handsome income, which mud be increasing and
permanent:
Among the many advantages of this situation,
mud be numbered the fertility of thefurrounding
country —being the bill improved part of the coun
ty of Onondaga—the concentration of inttr
courfe by land aqd water, the Geneffce flateroad
palling through it, as well as nil water carriage to
Geneva, and the counties of Ontario and Str.uoen ;
which renders it a moll eligible ftand'for a Store or
Tavern—The river and lakes abound in fifli aDd
fowl, and the country with deer and other game.
Bf fides the mills already ereiScd at this place, it;
iscalcularted for any additional water works that
maybe found neceflftry—Fulling mill, baik mill
tannery, forges, &r. maybe ertiled at a faiall cx
p?nc —Iron ore may be brought in boatsu-om the
Cayuga lake ; and it is thuught to abouiid in the
neighborhood
"i'he flock 011 hand w'll bfc fold to the lcflee, an(d
the cat'i.:, utensils, smith's forge, &c. may befold
or let the prcmifes.
If a purchase (liould offer for the ,>vbola or an
undivided part of the preiuifes it will be fold.
F®r terms of sale .or lease, apply to mr. Wn
uelmus Mvkberse at theSiiiieca falls, or to the
fubferiher, at Schcueclady.
STEPHEN N. BAYARD.
i tf jaw2m
Federal Mills,
A DJOIN'N'G Georgetown, and the Chy of
X\. Walhington, wdl be offered at Public Sale,
on the loth day ol September next, at the Union
Tavern, if not previously fold at Private sale
Those milfcin point of situation for butinefsand
na ural advantages are generally admitted to be
equal to any in America. The Merchant Mill is
a large brick l.oufe, eighty feet hy fifty, alipofl
new, 111 which afe ercdlcd four pair of Burr mill
llones with elevators, hopperboys and bolting
cloths, completely firilhed and conllrucled in such
a manner that the whole of the may mann
failure flour at.the fajiii time. The country mJU
which is ereAed near the other, is entirely r.ew,
a flrong stone bsiWing, containing one pair of
Hones, and built in such a manner that the second
pair may be put up with little expence. This m|H
is conveniently finilhed, and calculated to carry on
extensively, country work, of which it gets a con
stant supply. fhere is belonging to the said mills
271 acre* of land, the whole of which will be
fold with the mills.
One third of the purchase money will be requir
ed in sixty days from the day of sale, and fjr the
balance a liberal credit will be given. Furtlwr
particulars will be made known on the day of file.
JOSEPH E. ROWLES,
Surviving partner of
JOSEPH E. ROWLEB tf Co.
Georgetown, july 13- »J —3awt»
;• AW ACT
| Fsr tU r&ef eft be Xtfugee; From tSe Britifb
r frovmcts' c{ mud Nova-Scotm.
|q T>£ it chuSiil by the Senate nr.d House
i ''' ' 1 ' i ) qf kepreferttntives of the Umtea
Stairs of -Aaterita, in Congress nfftmbled, That
:•> fati;ty the claim of certain persons claiming
lands i.iidrt the rcfolu'tions :<f Congrtl's, of the
tv, ciity-ti::nl of April, one th.iufa«d-fev«a has
dre ♦ and cightv-three, ;nd tlx thirteenth of
Ap'.'il, one tiioufand fevenTiund'ed and eighty-
five, at feftjjffj frcm theßritiih provinces of j
Canatb and liovs-Sc'otia, t-ha Secretary tor the \
Department of War, be, and is hereby autho
rized ai.d diredled to give notice in one or more
•of the public papers of each of the States of
Vrrjna Maffjcbufetts, New-York, New-
Ha.upihire »ml PennfvlVanta, to all persons hav
ing cl«i,untt nindrr the ftid reMutions, to Crsitl- ■
nn.it lo tbe two yeirs .'after
the qf. this ail, b jult ax..l trBS account
of their claims '.ri the bounty of Cc; vird's.
See. 2. And be it further ei/.iJed, That no
-other persons ItnL lie entitled to the benefit of the j
provisions ot this adl, tiunthnleof thef How- j
ing oeicripti: iis, or tnc ; r widows and heirs, viz.
J Fii.», thole heads of families, and finjjle per
sons, not members of r.r.y such families, who
were refidenu in one of the provinces afore/aid,
prior to the fourth day of July, one tlioufand
liven hundred and feventy-lix, ami who aban
doned their -I'ettlements, in coiifecvienceof hav
ing given aid to the United Colon:es or States,
in the revolutionary War agai.ft Great-Britain,
•or with intention to give fiieTi aid, and continu
ed ir, the United States, or in their Service, dur
ing the fa id war, and did not return to relide in
the dominions, of the king of Great-Britain,
prior to the twenty-fifth of November, one
th/uifiml seven hundred and eighty-three. Se
condly, the.widows and heirs of all such pei
f.ins, as were a&ual relidents, as as -rrfaW, who
abandoned thtlr feftlenients, as aforefaid, and
died within the United States, or in their ser
vice during the said war : anil thirdly, all per
sons who were members of families at the time
|Ol theircomingintothe United States, and who ;
during the war, entered into their fcrvice.
Sec. 3. And be it further enaiUd, That the
proof of the several circumstances mecefla'-y to
entitle the applicant; to the benefits of this aift,
may be taken before a judge Of thefupreme or
diftri£t couit of the United Stites, or i judge j
of fupewor coin, or llu. Grit jar !
tice or '! of thecourtoi common pleas
or coontt court of any. State.
Sec. 4. And be it further cna3ed v That at
he expiration of fifteen months from and after
the pafiiig of this a<fl, and from time to time
thereafter,, it lhall be the of the Secretary
for the Department of War, to lay fu:h evi
dence of diiims as he may have received, before
the Secretary and Comptroller of the I'rcaiWy,
and with them, proceed to examine the tefli
mony, and give their judgment what quantity,
of land ought to be allowed to the Radividual
claimants, in proportion to the degree of their
refpedlive fcrvices, facrifices and fullering*, in
confequencc of their attachment to the cause of
the United States ; allowing to those of the tirft
class a quantity not exccedingone tliouland acres;
and to the laR class, a quantity not exceeding
one hundred, making such intermediate cliffes
as the resolutions atorefjid, and distributive jiif
tiife, mav, i,n their judgment require, ,?nd milfe
report thereof, to Congress. And in cafe any
such claimant /hall have sustained such loiTjsand
lufferings, or performed such services fur the
United States, that he cannot jtiftly be claflfed
in any one general class, a separate report Jhill
be made of his circuinftances, together with tie
quantity of land tliat.oug'nt to be allowed him,
having reference to the foregoing ratio : Pro
vided, that in considering what compenf.ition
oHg4it to be made by virtue of this afl, all gi ants
except military grants, which may have been
made by the United States, or individual States,
(hall be conlidered at the jult value thereof, at
the tifriethe fame were .made, pefpeftively, ei
ther in whole or in p<irt, as the cafe may be, a
latisfaiflion to chose who may have received the
fame : Provided a/Jo, that no claim under this
law, Hull be assignable until after report made 1
to Congrels, ae aforefaid, and until the said
lands be granted to the persons entitled to the
benefit of this a£t.
Sec. 5. 3e it further evußed, That all claims
in virtue of said resolutions of Congrels, which
(hall not be exhibited as aforefaid, within the
time by this adl limited, (hall forever thereafter
be barred.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of ilepi'eftnta'i'ves
'FH : JEFFERSON,
Vice^Prefdent as the United States,
and Prefidertt of the Senate.
Approved, 7, 1798.
JQHN ADAMS,
P-ef.der.t of the United Stutrs.
Depc.fited among the Rolls in the office of the
Department of States
Timothy I'icksring,
Secretary tf State.
Ct-/* Pitrfuant to the Ctbo'd-c Ad, No
tice is hereljjr given to all persons hav
ing claims itntlci the resolutions of Con
gress, of the 23d of April, arul
the 13th of April, 17 05, to tranfmitto
the War-Office within two years after
the palling of the said Aft, viz. the 7th
day of April, a just and true ac
count ps their claims to the bounty of
Congress.
In the proof of Claims, a strict atten
tion must be paid to the requisitions of
the 2d aiid 3d Seftions of the Act.
JAMES M'HENRY,
Secretary of IVar.
ju|y 19 aaw6w
LANDING,
At South Street wharf, thcc:ir£o of the (hip Con
necticut, from Batavia—
About 300 tons of Java Coffee,
ofthegtowth ofi794and 1795
60 tons of Java Sugar,
In cannifters—for fuie by
PETER J-iLIGHT,
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SALE,
150 hh(*s. choice Jamaica Sugars
Jamaica rum in hhib
Brandy ift and 4th proof in pip.es, hjids.
and quarter calks
Madeira in pip?s
Old Batavia Arrack
juH'.s 5
This Day is HulvlUhed,
AND FOR SA LI &V 1. UNNO, j iQ,CM ES N U T-S *• R BET
AN ADDRESS
To the People of- Maryland,
ON the origin, progress and prelrwt ftste of
French agjjrctlion, with a (ketch of the infamous
attempts to degrude the Goverumeiit of the United
States, and l'cme reflection: on the la'.e proceedings
in Congress; written the lail of April in the nre
fent yoar T by a Member ofth. Hiui'e of ftcprefefl
tativc»« 5 juucjj
HAPPY D/SCOPERI*.
A cei j t »b.t&ij.'alatimg and dreadful DiJcrJrr
The Yellow Fever,
As iveil as arty other d pu'tid fever, fever oni '
ague, and ether inveterate and complicated diftafes, by
tie use of the
POUDRE UNIQUE,
W "ELL kiTowiiai.il patentedinh gland.France,
Poland, and all-the capital cities in Europe,
where the most aiiomftiing cure? havebeei- ' ffo&-
ed on perform judged incurable by all physicians.
In a Treatise printed in Lou on, on the properties
of thw powder, by T. Seymour, M. O late Che
mist to his Mnjefty, there are dated two bun »red
cases, where this most valuable remedy toas pre ved
infallible, in all kind of feverj, pteurify, blonds
| iterate rheumatisms, fiifjica, apoplexy, paral'jic, yet
lav jaundice, rvo> ins ir children and in grmi'tt
\ perfint, xolAte.S, chronical bead and ftcmacb acfes, hepa
t-ck gad r.ef btet'ual or flottA fogs cV'l, scurvy
and ttyrncf. in-vct.rate and complies: t d very real disease. It
is like* ife the bed preparative for phs lm&U pcx
and mealies ol the greased utility tor young as
well as for elder ladies at the critical epoch of their
life. 'i ho cifi' Hcy of this powder in frveral of the
above diseases Las been dileovered by chance, and
To it has been in the ye'Joru fever lad year, by Mr.
Mahy, who cured several by admin ifteririg only
two of the said powders, and loft not a Tingle pa
tient which he undertook to cure, as proved and
attefied by the here annexed certificates, whole ori
ginal may be fcen at Andrew Ha ft's umbrella Jbop t
J\ r o. I3T, corner of Chef nut and Fourth Jlrcett, the on
ly place wh re these powders are to h* lifid, with
proper directions fcr the use of them.—Price t*u>*
dollars. .
The ufefu!nefs aud certainty of this remedy be
ing so great for so many dangerous disorders, any
perfan widvigg to be provided with those nowders,
will please to appiv very foou, us the 4a 11 tity at
hand is rot very tafgCj ana ixis'&u b Jul if lor a
leng time, or if ever auy otlilT will be im
ported, the frcret remaining <m,\ 1:1 tr.e hands o£
the inventor, in Furope, and never -eing commu
nicated to, or dileovered by any oilier person.
N. B In the yeJlavarttf putrid fevers, this pow
der must betaken tbeiecoad, or at Liilthe third
day.
We the fubferibers, durirg the late sickness in
this city, havmgtajcsn the y fmw fever, applied to
Vlr. Mahy for his m-dicahaffrftance, wfc m »bore
by certify, that by a certain powder, cal e i the
l'oudre U'.ij::e % we W<*re perfectly r covered from \
the said fat il fiekncft, and from an c.Ocri rce of
the happy 4fFc&s of the above most wYJua',: nudi
ciae. consider \z da:y to nykc the i ana e
lor tha benefic of our fellow cii zens.
Margtm t Tones,
My'ns O'Connor,
le'le r«**i:er,
Ci.rilUn Rebecca Dow,
Catherin Apple,
Anli Gr <ver,
William Hills,
}>a vid' v•' ill isms, car pest -r,
William T Oonaldfon, jnaft-malcer.
Mr. Mafly's well known Plait*cr, for of
wounds and fores, to be had at the above direc
tion, No. i v, Cnefnut llreet.
august S aawf
TT'RdM of war Delaware, ]y
iag in Nautafect RoaJ, Jof. ph l'orter, 5 feet
10 incites high, a>;ed.iß, horn at Concoril, C'hcf
ter couiKy, ildLc ot Peimfylvania, sandy hair and
cumy'.ejcipn.
Wm. Moon, agel 25, 5 feet 10 iaches high,
red hair and red complexion, born in Philadelphia
—the only, cloaths taken with him is a fait of ma
rine cloaehing.
Whoever apprehends the said Jefarters, shall re
ceive ten dollars ior each, by applying to
VV. \V. 3UR.UOWS,
Major of the Marine Corps.
Wants Employmeiir,
A YOUNG MAN, who has l'crvcd a regu
-i\. lar, apprentieefliip to the mercantiie hufi
r.efs in this city, wilhes to engage in a C6*uting
' hotife oroflics, writes a good hand and under
stands accounts, can be well recwnmt miefl and
lecurity given if required. Enquire at the
o";ce of this Gazette.
juiie zt ,?awtf
General" Poll-Office,
PROPOSALS for carrying themailsof the
United States on the following routes will
be received at this office until the zotli iiay of
September next incluftve.
1. From Pitifburg l'. by Cannonlbutg, Waflj
ington, Weft-Liberty, W'heeling and Wil's
town to Z,anrs at the month of Licking-creek,
oai t!ie Mufkingum, e(limited J4omiles.
I .cave Piuftiui-jr every V'rit'ay at 2 PM. and
arrive st Zines tiie next Monday bv Bp. m.
Returning—L',ave Zsnes jvyry Tuesday a* 5
A. M. aiidarrive at Pittfburg the next Priifav by
1 OA. M.
j. From Zanes, at th* month of Licking
Crock on the Milfkingum, by Cnilicothe-and
Mafley's to Mayfvilie in Kentucky ; ellimited
140 ruiies
Leave every Turfjay at 5 A. M. and
arrive «tt M yfville the next Friday by 10 A. M.
■Returning—Leave Mayfville every Friday by
i p. M. and ir'flve at 2ancstlie next Monday by
5 P. M.
The iarriape of the mails to commence on the
firil <lav o f JS'' iV fmher next.an.l eoutiftu.' until
the lirft clay of OA"ber i3oo. irayiuents will
be ma.dequarterly.
The usual penalties for delays »nd failures w ill
be ilipuUted ir. the contrail.
Joseph Habcrjhain,
Pofirtfffor General*
Philadelphia. Tidy t.x, :tqß m.'k'.h^w
HKALTjB OFFICET"
Philadelphia, zf May* X 795.
Ex'.ratT. of an a& to alter and amend the H ilth
Laws of this Commonwealth, palfed 41b pri\,
173%.
8* A ' K it further ena<sled by the au-.
-v. . y X V tjioricy.aforeiaid That everjrfiouTe
le ee per within ef Philadelphia, the to viu
i'hip> of ihe Northern Libertic? and ?/To\ am<.r.nri^ v
and 'dftlridt'oif SoutnWark, within a miU of the li
» mitsof the city, taking in boarders ai riving fey <ca
or by land, from any foreign port or place, and ha
ving any boaruvr in hisor her laniily, >vhofh;il» be
taken sick o: any difcaf/. wharioever, Kerween the
firft day of May and the firifc day of November in
any year, -wirhin t venty day; next after fiu-h boar
der fhali co"ne to lodge in his or *.lt house, (ball
within 24 hours next after£ ]t ' of ftivU
sickness. make rej ort i-.t ihe ol too
name of ftfch lick perfou, tlve t'teac of hi* or her ar
rival at the house and of h;s or her bei"g taken sick,
and bf the name and phcc <?f abode of such houfc
kcep.r-; wlureupon the Phvfjciau ol the nealth-
Office ihall forthwith visit the patient, . ndreport
to the olHce his opinion of the nature oi'iuchd*f
eafc, tli&t mcafures may be taken to preven: tUe
fpreadfng of the infe<stiori; and if any houlckcepcr
(hall neg led to give information in the manner and
within the time aforcfaid, and (hall be tJuTCof cpn«
vi<sled, in any couttof criminal jurifedidion wi;iu,i
this Ccmmoawtakh iipM iadiAuie tby verdiel
or confeflion, he or ihe 11-all forfeit and pay a fine
to the use of the said hoinitul, not In is tb*n twenty
dollars, nor mere than one hu*>dr.d dollar#, to l>e
ieipof'dat the »!u;rction of tbToiKt, according to
ihe circuinftiinces ot^reater or LA ;• at
tending each particular cafe.
by 0: \-r U ti'.<- Doard of
V/M.AI.I.EN, Health Officer,
of shj l'crc tf i *•
toj.rJi'j