©a?cttc of tije a d Phi Ia delphia JDciily Advertiser.
biVMBEK 1861.J
* # * The price of this Gazette is eight
Dollars a year. —Subscribers ivho reftde at
a dijlance from the place of publication, and
whose papers are sent per pojl, pay ftx
Month's fubfe-ription in advance, and one
dollar annually for enclofmg and directing
their papers. The payments to be wlivays
Jix months in advance.
For Sale.
THE Sobscriisr. intending to decline the
BUSINESS, offirs For Sale, the
vyholc S'.ock of
Drugs and Medicines, Instruments, &C.
"Hi* (hop is eltgant, commodious, and iaffici
cntly known for die extrnfive buOncfs i one in the
Wholffats znd retail line ; the foliation equal to
;f.nV in the city, being if the c..:ncr of Walnut and
Second (irvts. The whole, or any par* of the
Stock, will hofol 1. as will hell suit she purclafer.
Th.'terms may irt known, hy applying to
JaMES MOORE, jun.
Who has For Sa'e,
sloop ''
Weil dictated for the river trade —
The Peggy, about jofonsburthen,
Mulberry and KcdCeM r fia lie. and remarkably
Houtj of an easy drauglit of water, r in
good cr.ler.
The Sali.y, about 30 tons, fails
well, and incomplete order forthe'mnib'Jrbufinefs.
All persons indebted to the late firm of
Ca'Jthwait Baldwin, IV■ B Gyiathm/tit, CM
tb -.vuit ! -S" Mmrc, or tlie fub&fi ir, ate eaninftly
requdred to Klakc fpecdy onymcnt to
James moore, jun.
!111 trURt \ S
Ship & Insurance Broker,
THE Subscriber, encouraged by the advire
of his friends, offers hisfervice to tfe pub
lic as a Ship and Insurance Broker. H» pro
poses to buy and fell vefT.rls and every thing re
lating th*feto—afiiit matters of velil-ls and others
in entering and clearing at the Cultoru House,
procur ng and, Ovipping freight, fettling Insur
ance and all other mercantile accounts, and have
on hand the necefi'ary Blanks and Stamps.
Papers in foreign languages translated, and
information given in general mercantile matters
—From a'knowledge gained by long experience
of every biancU of hufioefs he hopes to be ul'e
ful to those vho please to favor him with thuir
commands. SAAIUEL EMERY.
Philadelphia augnft 24th, 1798- 9
~ FOR SALE,
Tor Sale, at the Stores of the Sub
fcrlbers, on Walnut street Wharf,
195 ca(ks of nails afTorted
40 bales ef fail canvafi, from No. I to 8
calks yell>w ochre
1 5 tierces bottled porter, 6 to 14 doz. each
London particular ) Ma( t e ; ra Wines
India market }
Xeneriffe do. in hogfheadsand pip
Old Port do. in hhils.
Empty Claret botties
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, Muflmeti &c.
afTorted for the Weft India market
4, io, and 9 inch cablesand 10 coils of cordage
Writing fiates, ink Hands and prefies
30 puncheons Jamaica rum
I bale Teaming twine
160 bundles Taeathing paper
NicMin & Griffith.
April 7 tuth&f.tf
6' TAMP S.
W. G R IFFITHR,
BOOKSELLER & STATIONER,
BEGS leave to irl'orm such persons in the fouth
trn part of t'le city (who may find it incon
venient to go farther up for their (lamps) that at
his Store, No. 177, South Seeped, near Spruce
ttreet, he has a general fupp'.y for distribution.
He has juftr c ivedfrom London, by the way
of New York, an elegant assortment of Morocco
Articles, viz. travelling, drefling, wilting and
dreflii'g Csfes, with lnliruments very complete ;
Pocket Bocks ; Etwees ; 1 bread Cases, Purses,
&c in the greatest variety and hell manufacture.
Lli.vJft on band— Chars of every part of the
/> meri.an Coast; Prints frrmedand glazed, Draw
iv,.r Books and Portable Delias which, with his
uiual Hock, W. G. hopes will not he unworthy
the attention ofladi«scr gentlemen who make use
of fu-h goods.
\ number of small Dutch RIFLES, cheap
_ july 30 . » w * w
Madeira Wine.
A few p pes of r<ma; kably fine MADEIRA WINE
fit for immediate use, and at a reduced priLC—loi
■fd!c by JaMLSYARD.
jillv 9.6. , (
' (3- bho 11 let a gentleman, a na
tive of Teiitnfii, who h»J been known in America by
the name of Lewis Martin Cevel at one t me, and ai
another by that of Lewis Cevel P.liifer, U alive, and
will apply to J;mes Barry, ol Baltimore, he wil
ftcar of something b'»' ly 10 his imerell. Or should
he be decealed. an\ p rfon who wUI addrels a certi
ficateof his d<ath, 'properly auihcflgjtated, will be te
warded with twenty dollars, by ippKii'g as above.
>lr- Pellilcris [Uppofed 10 be loine where in the flatt
of :^chuft:!s.
august 1 •
Baikenridge —for fa'e
|T confifls of 920 acres, ilmofl all of wh eh is
1 a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the late
Etrl of Strling). It may be conveniently dixiden
into five farms, four of which are bounded on tht
East by the river Pt-faick. _
Th r' are on ; .ta number of buildings, forming
af-l'jare ol nearly three aere=—The dwelling house
U a very convenient one andja fmallexpence would
put it in complete repair. , .
The orchard contifls of 1500 finvbeanng cngraf
ed Anple'Trees —and there is 011 other parts oiCaiii
near 30b other Apple Trees as aifo a great
varie-y of other fruits, particularly Cherries of tht
best and mbft delicious kinds.
' Alio, a great number of beautiful Fxot'csand
Boreft TresS; that add to th# beauty and eonveni
cnce cf the pla:e. Its '.itiwtion is abeut 18 miles
froKi rbe tnv.-nsof Newark and Elizabeth t 10 do.
frem Morris-Town, and n from Springfi.ld—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is (lyepound pr. acre
in ffafb, on delivery of the deeos. Please to Vn
ouire ef 1 ■ MchUEN 5c Co.
' \..J -8, Chefcu: trect.
tbrasry 1. eodtt
PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY EVENING, AUGUST 29, 1798.
FOREIGNERS
MAY, byviitueof an ail passed at November
session 1791, hold by dead, or by will, lands
in that part of Maryland called the diftriil of Co
lumbia ; and the fame may be transmitted to, and
inherited by their heirs, &c.aa if they were citi
zens.
Within the diflriif of ColumVs upon the eaf
tcrn branch of Potomac'.:, c fcte fjuarcs No.
H24,and 1131 in the city Waihington, are 360 a
cresof refervsd wood hnd Forfait. Its advanta
ges are numerous, pofTefiing three or four elegant
heigh's, many fine fpringn, and an ahundar.ca of
timber, principally white oaks. For a dock or
ship yard, no position can boail of equal benefits,
having two coves, with narrow entrances, from
which at an easy expence, tide water might he
excluded, and docks fiink, large enough to re
ceive vefTcls of any size.
V.'iJhirtg to retain an interest in the property, I
would prefer felling an undivided half or three
eights. GEORGE FRENCH.
'• or terms apply to Mr. Charles Minifee,Union
street. Philadelphia, or Mr. Robert VValfh, Balti
more. lu'y 23. "ai^w.
To be Lcr,
An airy three Story Brick House,
ON the south fide of Filbert Street, b •tvre-sn
Eighth and Ninth street. formerly o<.cupiud
as the Surveyor General's Oliice'—-Knquire at No.
IIX, Chefnut Street,
aujraft 10 eo^r
Boston Gl.fs,
Company now engaged in carrying on
a, the Glal's M*.rufadl:ory, with pleasure alfure
h 1 fublic, ther have at length brought the busi
ness ijito a situation that will allow them to prcmife
■a iirid pun»slua}ity in the execution of all orders,
and a superiority in the glass they manufailure to
any imported.
Fhcir Agents, MelTrs. J6sv?f Anthony and
Co. of Philadelphii, will receive and transmit to
tl.e Company, orders from any part of the South
ern States, and will contract for the delivery of
the Glass on terms as rcafonable as poiild be pro
cured from the Company themfehe*.
Letrer? and orders directed to Charles F. Kv.pfer,
at the works in Boston, fhail meet the ftri&eft at
tention.
N. li. They cut of any lizs from 6 by 8 to 18
by %4 inches.
jnly 27 aaw3m
NOTICE.
WHEREAS it iscnailed by the 7th faflion of
" an acl to augment the army #"f the Unit
ed States and for other purposes," passed the j6th
of July, 1798, That the President of the United
States be, and he hereby is authorised to appoint a
number not exceeding four, t tachers sf the arts
and fciencei necefi'ary tor the inflruflion of the
artillerists and engineers, whs {hall be entitled to
the monthly pay of fifty dollars,.and two rations
per day.
NOTICE IS THEREFORE GIVEN to those
gentlemen who arc qualified and desirous to engage
as teachers upon the tertus expressed iu the said
a&, of thelciecces neceflary to the artillerists and
engineers, to forward their applications and reenm
mendations to the secretary for tke department of
war.
The to the artilleries and
engineer i, are th ' u'verai branches of the mathe
matics, particularly gunnery .fortification, hydrau
lics, hydrostatics, and th« calculations of masonry,
timber, &c. also mineralogy, military architec
ture and designing.
JAMES M'HENRY,
Secretary of War.
July 31. d3w
TO BE LET, "
And immediate possession given ;
A Large convenient, well finifhed house, Ni
2J5 High-flreet, lately occupied by Doc
tor Wiflar, wiili Coach houlV am! Stables
Enquire of WILLIAM SHE/IFF,
No 168, High-Jlreet.
Ju'y .11. . §
~ FOR SALE, by
John MILLER, JUN.
NO. 8, CHESNUT STUf.KT.
100 hogsheads RUM,
Of high proof and fine flavour
july T9
Madras and Veniapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukers and Carradarries,
of the ne weft and molt approved patterns,entitled
to th* drawback, just received,
ANi> FOR SAL'E RV
Alex. J. Miller & Co.
No. 64, South Front street.
may iB. -
OX BEEF.
100 Barrels } of B<ef of best quality, put
50 half Barrels \ up with carefor long Voyage s,
ico Barrels cf Conneiflicut Pork.
50 Barrels of ConneSicijt Tongues.
WINES.
35 Pipes of Madeira Wine
30 l'ipe« of Port
30 half casks of Sherry
30 Calks of Lifboii
300 Cases of French Claret, of excellent
quality.
800 Barrels of Scraped FLOUR,
100 Barrels of Condemned, and
io Boxes of best Durham Milliard.
For Sale by
John Skyrin,
Landenberger's Wharf.
m ay A eoelt f
Jul! Received and fale by
WILLIAM ro U NG,
Corner of Second and Chefnut Street—and at the
Office of the Ed tor, price ] l6ths of a dollar,
AN ORATION, ,
Spoken at Hartford, on the of Inde
pendence, July 4, I*oß.
By THEODORE DWIGHT.
; FOR SALE,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharfV&e. fituatiori
Water street, between Mulberry an-J Safl'af as
Street , containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, andcontaining that breadth eaft
warel n'ticty-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. Tbefe houses
have the convenience of a public alley adjoin
ine on the north fide, and area very defirabie si
/.uatwil for a saerckant. Hour fadlor, or other
who may have occasion for storage of gohds.
This property will be jtojd on very reafnnable
trm> for eafh. For further information apply
printer. April 5 m&wtf
by John Fenno, N° iip Chef?mt Street.
Weft-Indian from Madeira.
N Those Gcnflemca who have Wines
on board the Weft-ladsati are informed fte is
now cl'HcSurging at Bouth-firect VVharf, are fo
licifcri to ha (ten down the VefTel
being iinnicdiatclv war'ed. Pet*r Blgbr
I i bo wants to Purchase,
100 Barrels of g~od Prime or Mcfs Beef
100 ditto Pork
7 or 800 ditto fine Flour
4 or 50C0bufhels Indian Co r n.
LANDING
From the West Indian,
A choice parcel of Pbelp'j old particular
Wine in Pipes fn for lmrnediite use.
august 1? fiot
CAUTION.
WHEREAS a certain perfonfwindled
from me oa thefirlt inft. by giving
me inlieuthereof aforged check on the Bank ;
of North America, anote of that date, drawn I
in my favour by Mr. John Travis; and pay- :
able in fix months, for three thousand four ,
hundred and fifty seven dollars and forty-fix j
cents. ALL persons are-desired not to re- I
ceive any transfer of it. as it will not be j
pa'd by either the drawer or endorser unlets
recovered by law.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Race Street.
atlSTiifl 6.
The Publ;c are hereby informed,
I did not mean to authorise Col. Will
iam Nichols to declare, that I would not pay,
un'efs rtcow<d iiv law, my notealludi-il to in his
caution of tUe 6th of August, published in the Ga
zette of the United States of lad evening. I iin
eerely lament hi« lois, and t«ld him I would do
all I could do confidently with my credit to serve
him, but went no further.
'■JOHN TRAVIS.
august 7
"INSURANCE OtFICE
OF THE STATE OF PEA A'STLKANIA,
August nl, J 798
r- E"'HE Dire&ors have this day declared a di
-1 vidend of fifty-five dollars, on each (hare of
•he Stock of this Company, for the last half
year, whi-h will be paid to the Stockholders, or
their legal representatives after the 10th instant.
fames S. Cox, President.
august a Jijt
TO~BE SOLD,
■" I "'HE time of an indented Dutch Servant BOY,
1 who has ten years to serve. He has had the
small pox and measles, is ailive, hearty and flrong,
and fit for house work in town or country. For
further information, enquire of the printer,
august 4 §
FOR SALE,
The Cargo of the Schr. Sincerity
Benjamin Mouteith Matter, from Laguii-a,
CONSISTING or
945 Fenegas of Cocoa
4000 lb. of Flora Indigo
Ixo Bales of Cotton
4 Packages of Goat Skins
By IVillings iff Francis.
No. Eieveath street.
July 2: _ dtf
To be Sold,
An elegant and convenient House,
In Chefnut Jlreet, next door to the Bank of North A mane a.
THE L»t is thirty by one hundred and seventy
eight. The House has been thoroughly repaired
within a months. Apply to the Printer. i
august 8 . §
Public Notice is hereby given,
That proposals will be received at the office
of the Secretary of the Tveaiury for fup
plyfng the United States with a number not
exceeding Forty thousand.(lands of sums,
on the following-fconditions.
ift. The arms shall bo manufadhired in the
United States, conformable to the Charlevllle
pattern ; the barrels shall he proved,,and the
.muskets infpefled agreeable to the rules now
praftifed and required by the United Stites :
the Locks shall be duly hardened ; the Ra<r.rod»
and Bayonets shall betempered and the mount
ings, flocks, and every other particular shall be
finifhed in a workman-like manner.
2d. The proposals mnft fpecify the number
which the party is willing to furnifh aud the time
or times of fourth of the pro
posed number must be delivered in fix months,
one fourth in twelve months, and the remainder
in eighteen months from the time of signing the
contrails; the public will not be considered as
bound to receive any arms, which are not ready
for delivery within the times propoftd.
3d. For every itand of arms, with Bayonet
and Ramrod complete as aforefaid, the United
States will allow thirteen dollars and fort\ cents.
4th. When practicable and confident with
exiffing arrangements, seasoned ftcx ks will be
delivered from the public stores in I hiladelpliia
to contiailors, at the rate of t veaty-live ceuts
each.
sth. The arms wil! b,e received in the rffpec
tive fiates at places to he 'hereafter designated
The Unit'd States (half not be hound to prpve
less than five hundred harvclt at one time, unlfls
the barrels are trarifporttd to some public faifip
ry or depofis of arms, in which cafe af'.y num
ber not lei's than one hundred will be proved.
rtth. The parties contrailing will he requited
to give bonds wiihfuretiesfor fulfilling their en
gagements j No money will he advanced un(eli
indisputable teffimonials of skill ar.d ability to
execute the prppofed contrsdls are ptodufitd
nor ill cases where proposals are madefor a lels
number than one thousand Hands of arms ; tht
right of judging of the expediency of making
advances of mondy isahfolutely reserved
7th. Ur.t 1 contrails are made for supplying
forty thousand stands of arms, the sum of'thir.
Tien dollars and forty cents will be paid nt (he
Treasury for every compete ftind of arms man
ufadlured in the United States and which may
be delivered in parcels of not less than twejity
into the public arfcnals, already or hereafter to
be eftabtifhed. Thofi; who propose to deliver
arms must however indicate their intentions lea
fonably to the ofitie of thp Secretary of the
Treasury.
For the Secretary of the Trtafnry,
John Steele, comptroller.
Treasury Department ?
Junetui, 1798. 1 livtf
To be Sold, at private Sale,
A Plantation and TI.IC. of Land
CONTAINING 14! Ac:»., fitus'.e in Wb te
marßi to-.vnfhip, in thee unty of Mer.tgom- ,
ery, ahtiut 1 s miles from P 1 ladeiphia, and on !
the public roa ! leading fr A Plyojonth by the '
Broad-Ax tavern tovird J-ji r'hja:, and about I
one quarter e f a mile frofi. fiio tavern,, also
about the fame dillance from the Skippack road
aud abour tfie fame eliiiance from the late resi
dence of James Morris esq. deotafed. It is
bounded .by lands of Anthony Morris esq. Ja
cob Ueiff and Detwciler. /ibnut ten acres are
good watered meadow, about 15 or 20 a e un
der ctover, asrl about 3; acres are well timbered.
The on the abeve farm consist of a
two Cory Heine dwelling-house, a large llerne
barn and Cone spring-house. There is also cn
(lie premises a young orchard of about 150 ap
ple-trees.
Th's farm has great advantages of water, as
there is an excellent ncver-f-jili'-g flream pa'uug
by the house and barn, in fueh a manner a to
l'npply the fame as well asevery field with a fu:-
ficienr quantity.
The spring over which the spring-house is *
buiit, is excellent water, snd is s.'fe? very near
and convenient to the dwel.iug houle.
The fituationof this place is heauhjr an-tin a
good neighborhood, and is near 10 fevtral dif
ferent places of worfiiip, and within tiie difj
tance of ha : f a mile from two grilt and saw
mills, r.lfo lirne-liilns.
This farm will lie fold together or divided in
to two parts, as may suit the ptirclufers. Also
a two-florv stone htnlfe wilii » ham sml carriage
ho.ife and lot of Irnd situate on Chefnut-hill. Ir
is a very high and healthy fttuation, and com
mands a very extensive anel beau'ilul p«ilpo£l—
Pofieffion of part Qt the house imy be had im
ir.edlately.
For further particulari-'apply to Henry Pratt,
No 94 North Water,-ftrerf Philadelphia, or to
CHRISTOPHER HEYDRICK,
cn Cbesnut-liifl.
Chefnut-hill, august 14th, lawtf
"Epidemic and Pestilential Diseases.
A DISSERTATION ON THE SOURCES THEREOF,
IN which it in attempted to prove from a nume
rous induction cf fails, thU they never arise
fro'n contagion, hut are always produced by cer
tain flatesjnd vicissitudes of the atmosphere.
Ey CHARLES M'LEAH, Calcutta.
This valuable work, together with a view of
the Science of .Lffe, —and a Treatise on the adion
of Mercury uponlivSig bodies, and it- appJicatiin
for the cure of diseases of indire& debility
Neatly printed on fine wove paper, and bound in
boards, are now to be had at
W. YOUNG'S Booh Store,
The corner of Second and Chefnut ftreett,
(Price One Dollar.)
august 14 eo")t
Bengal Goods,
CONSISTING GF
BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS,
"■ Chintz Coffas Maharazgungy
Chintz Guazinas Tookereys
Eliabad Baftas Wrought Mrflint
Long Drawers
Coarfc Sugars in bags, fit lor the European markets
ALSO,
Carolina Indigo
Coffee in hogiheads
A few pipes of very old and very choice Madeira
WINK
For Sale, on reafonabie terms, !>y
John Craig,
No. ii, Dock-Hreet.
July 14 nnv.-tf
Mails for Carolina 'Jf Georgia,
PACKETS are now provided for carrying the
Public mailsby waiter between Phila 'el; Ir.a
and Charlefloit. They will l«ve Philadelphia
on Friday's. The pofl by land wijl b,e c-.niinu
ed twice a 'i-eek until au ixperim.nt i< n»a le ITI
regard to the expedition and rrguiaruy of the
packets. Jf any perfm chufi-s to i.ave their
letters sent b.y land only, they will pleaie to
write the weird Land upon th* letters : other
uift thev will be sent by tlvat conveyance which
will fi'ft Itart after the letters are left in the;
poft-effice.
Jofepb Haberjham,
Pojl - Mqfler Gem raL
Philadelphia, /.ngujl
she following Certificates
OF Fuuded Debt an- Bank of United StMes
Stock, were forwarded from England per
the Countcfs of Lcjccftcr I'acket, in the nth
month, 1797, which vessel ha? I.een captured,
and the Certificates supposed tob« loft.
4000 dollars per cent. Stock, (landing on the
books of the Treasury, in the rami: of Bird Savage
and Bird Certificate r.o 189, dated July lyth, '96.
Ten Shares Stock of the Bank of Unit.-d Sratcs
in the name of Miller, Hart & Co. of London,
in one Certificate, No. 26067, dated the lit day
of January, 1797
For the renewal of which certificates, applica
tion is intended to be made tt ths Office of the
Treasury of the United States, and at tha Bank of
Ljnited States; of which all persons intereftcd
therein, are delired to take notice.
JOHN WARDER.
Philadelphia, 5 me. 16, 1798.
sawjm
John Haines & Win. Jones,
"jBt.G leave toiuform their'friends and the public,
t) that thev have commenced a Co-pattnerfhip
iu th.. SADDLING BUSINESS, which will ja
future 'oe earried on under the firm of
HAINES (s* JONES,
n Market street, No. 13a, one door above the
corner of Fourth, —where they prcfume (atflcaft
to hope) that their attention to, and knowledge in
bufjfceO, thfir determination tofcrtc on the best
terms, and their know*? att&chivent as Native A
mericans to the Government and Confutation of
their Country, will, eijjitlethqii to the encourage
ment of a generous public. Although thiy can
not boast of hrving r-cquired their experience in
any. past of yet they take the Hberty o!
pledging themCclves, tkat the:r a.anufa«slure faal
be inferior t"j none in this city,
june 26# tuth*tf
* FORSAhE,
AF a . RM' on the road leitdingto St.ite
wittiih fo.ur and an oaltmilex of .Philadelphia.
, containing 45 acres in ihc of cultivaiion
—2saeres ot which i? meadow, ihc remainder up
land. I here areoii the premises a new frame Houle
and Ham, with an evc«*i!en! kilchen g;irdcn, contain
ing a great number of fiit Trees.—Jjmnedtaie
fion will be g!vrn.
tern?' 1 *pwly to
Thomas- IV, Francis,
N'fx. 9^South Thwd ftrec'.
July 18: t %
Territory cf the Ur.ixd States nortb-<wnt cf tbt
Hiivr Ohio.
Washington County, sT.
: TXTHEKtASa Writ of Attachment hath if
| * * l'urd out of the court of Common Plea*
| in said county, directed to the Sheriff of fa>.l
i c«snty, returnable to June term 1797, at the
fu:t of Giifftn Greene, cfn. r.gainft the Goods
and Citadel*, I.an(, l s,Teßeme it-,l;ifc(Jlß, Righis
and Credits of Asa Barret, f r Seventy Dollars.
■did<:vhe>ris, tht laid Sheriff hath by virtue of
said Writ attached a Lit cf f.ar.d lying i.> (bid
rounty, containing one'hunrircd acres, thetiro
perty of tlie I t. ndant. NOTICE is therefore
given to Jhe said Asa Barre' that unlet* lie d jth
app'jr *r.d pive Special IJail to the Aftiofe,
Judgment will be entered by Default, and die
land a o>c-menti< ncd viil Ue fo'd a* t\c li-w
dire£li. Srtjamil /wj Gihnan,
frethcnctary.
Ma -hita, Ju'y yth, r»o8. sawfcw
■ a ITvEirn sF. meft:
\T7"H!-REAS James Ciimkiko f Co. late of
Vv tie city 01 Phihrteiphia, m.rthar.ts, bay.-
assigned o/cr all their e£c«», real, perioral an I
j mixed, to the lubftribers, lor t.c lencfit <»f all
their creditor.-, who P all fuWcrib.; the /aid afiign
aie.lt within ft* 11:0 lths from the date hereof
NO I ICE IS CtI VEN, to alt perfocs
who are indebted to the said eilate, that tl:ey arc
required to make immediate payment of their ra
ped,v: iCi :r,ts, to the Aflignecs, at their office.
No. 6a, D' tk Preet, in iniWire vficrruf actions
wiU.hiliiiHjuted !iir the recov.ry of iuih debts as
are no' difcliarged accordingly,
"John Trams, ~l
John Wadtlington, ( - r
J, nes Taylor, f A % n «»-
Corrielius Comrgys J
aw S" Bt 18 __ _ * mwfjiD
¥©l SALE, ~
BY TK E SUBSCRIBERS, C L *VK NTH- JT R F E T
18 Bags Fresh Cloves.
Hikings & Francis.
J"" c ? 9- dif
DUTY on CARRIAGEST
Notice is hereby given,
THAT agreeably to an »cl 01 Congress of the
United States of America, palled at Phila
delphia the »Bth day of May, 1796, laying du
ties on carriages for the conveyance of ptrfuns, and
repealing the former ail, for that purpofe—Thac
there (hall he levied, col!e.2ed and paid, rpon a!I
carriages for the conveyance of pcrfons, which
fcallbe kept by or for any pcrfon, for his 01 her
own use, or to Ist out to hire, or for the conven
ing cf passengers, the several duties and rates fol
lowing, viz. dol!s<
For and upon every coach
upon every chariot ,
upon every poll chariot j j
upon every foil chaise j 4
uponevcryphaton, with or without top 9
upon every coachee ,j
upon other carriages, having pannel")
work above, with blinds glafles, ( a
or curtains ' \
upon four-wheel carriages, having")
frame posts and tops, with fltel \ 6
springs
uponfour-whael top carriages, with •>
wooden or iron springs on jacks \ 2
upon curricles with tops
upon chaile* with tops
1 upon chairs with tops
upon sulkies with t«p»
upon other two wheel top carriages j
upon two wheel carriages with lttel")
or iron firings r 3
For and upon all other two wheel carriages %
upon every four wheeled carriage,")
having framed posts asd tops' ( »
and refling upon wooden (pars 5
The Collector of the n venue ol the firft divilion
ol the firil fnrvcv of the diliritft of Petmfylvania
will attend daily until the 30th day bf September'
next, lot the purpose of receiving the duties on
carriages, it Gcrtjiaritovw, cn the ."Wain street, a
little above the fifn of the King of Prnfiia,'of
which all perf.m, polfeiTed of such carria»es'are
desired to take notice.
Notice is alio given,
To all ruail deafer* in wines and foreign distilled
liquors, that iicenfes will be granted to
them ; oni licence for carrying 011 the hufinefs of
retailing of win s in a lef, quantity, rr in less
uan titles, than gallon—and one -licence for
xrryiug on the bufincfs of retailing spirituous li
quors in less quantities than twenty gdions, at tha
fame time and at the fame place, by
• „ . JAMES ASH,
Col. 1 il or of the ill diviCon of the Ift
Survey of thcd.Oria of Penniylvania.
' Office of InfpetStion at G rmantown, ">
2ad Austin, j"
*y Every denomination of Stamps to be had
at said office.
£r The Stamp Tress is removed
' to the OHice of in Germantnwn, on the
Mai* -reet, a littlrarove the %:i of the King oj
- Prufiia,-where attendance will be given for the
: accommodation ol those who >vifh any inftromcnta
f fiamped, on 1 u fdays, 1 hurfuay, and Saturdays.
I avgu-t 12
~ IJEIERl J EIER BLIGHT
HAS removed his Counting Houfj to his House
in the Northern Liberties rear Nice l'own, Oei
mantown road.
august 11. t f
1 <3* Whereas Catharine, the Wife,
of the Subferiber, has left my bed aid board
with-iut at.y j'lll caufc —The said Catharine
having comrafled i'evira! debtn on my »cf. unt ;
: this is therefore to ftxrw aro all persons from trust«
' ing or harboring her on my mi ottnt as lam de
-1 termioed not to answer Jny after the date us
' this advertilement. jOH.\ KUHX-
F Philadelphia, utl r.vgust, 1798.
MITTEN*} z,
Teacher of the Piatig For/e,
, T) ESPIiCTFULLY offers his services to at
[ iVteiid his I; holars and uthels at Germintown
—ihould asmanv as Twelve requrft his at tend
ance be will wat on them immediijely.—Pleafe
- to «lire(ft to the Printer of the Gazette of th«
United States.
' august lo *rw
™ Cj* Any person in the neighbour*
e hood of Gcrmantowo defirousof rffefling lufuran
- ce< at the Office of the Ir.'furance Company of the
"- Statrof Pennfylvai i.i, now op "eH Jt th> N«rth
Weil Corner of Nw Ji ond Macliet flrerrs, n:ay
know the terms !iy leaving an >n<)uiry at «h.
o> S?mn«J 'V.f ifljer, Gerunaiown.
avguft I,; jrw
[Volume XIV.Xf)e iSajcttc.
PHILADELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY EVENING,AugujI z§-
For the Gazette of the United States.
MR. FENNO.
An t 'ration appeared in your paper a few
week 1 ! fir.ceon the fubjeCl offoreign immigration.
The intlpfed oration containing lentiments de
livered on ihe fame fubjeCVyou are requeflcd to
pnbllh.
AN ORATION,
On the following queftim : " Would it be cottsis
" tent <witb policy and justice to prohibit the
" immigration of jo'eigneis into the United
" State j ?" delivered in a literary society at
Princeton.
MR. PRSSIDENT,
'1 HE people of the United States are thin
ly fcattei-ed over an iirmenfe tirritory, thev hive
vafl trails of land covered with almost impsne
tratle sorest«, and even the country at present
under cultivation, efpecial'y to the South, pre
sents a gloomy and d.fcouraging profoeol. The
a: • and maimfaClures which are the nerves of
government, and the chief t'onrces of national
independence have but just arisen, and their farr
tfeer p.-ogre 1 ? ard improvement are impeded for
want of capitals :o and skill to prailife
tl;« rn. America s short in a #3te of infancy,
a fb.te the most dangerous in which a nation can
ex ft, one most haVe to ftf-iiTen change and cal
culate; to invite aggreflioh f:*om every power
that < onfiding m its own flrengfh, is ready to
prey upon the we?knefs of c hers. America
lhould take warning from thehotrerso' a fevefk
jcars war, from tie,late hoflile aggrefiions of
foreign poi'-er, how (he this state of
debility. S.ie fbould mike every pofiible exer
tion to cerder het felf indeptndent n the politi
cal world, and tft for encou.itering up- '
on equal terms, those nations who may hereaf
t.-rchufetob her enemies, Every entourage;-.
.ment lhctild therefore be gi ven to the extraordi
nary ineins of population, to improvement;- in
agriculture, in the arts ami inanufaaures, and
to' the exfenfion ef c. mmeree Whether the
midration of ' orfigners itit > Ame.'ica has any
»n» ! wk ,t is its 1 fleets upon bis.encoui itjemerit,
ate importAnt no itital tonfideratiotn in the dis
cussion of the q-iefl on before us —Would it be'
conhftr t with poltcr'y and jufli. e :« nrohibii the
irr.mgration of foreigners into the United States
of America ? J sppiehend that such a measure
would be incordiftent » t!i both found policy,
and the immediate principles of justice and hu
m nity.
It is read'ly that the population of
Amerii a will be more rapidly increased if the
immigration of foreigners We permitted,thinby
the ordinary meant abjn'e ; but, it is said, that
v iihout the ai ! of fcreigneisfhe will in less than
a century attain a corn|ietent population. Ad
mitting this calculation to be just, is it advisable
til wait tor so long a period > Is no danger to be
apprehended in the mean time from the avarice
and ambition of powerful nations ? Happily for
America, the firft period of her infancy has been
spent, u hile Europe convulfcd with wars, and
waited by internal commotions, has been con
fti.lined to employ her fl-ets and armies within
the fpbereof her own politics.
Peace will, however, soon rellere her wont- 1
cdvig r, and refllefs ambition may transfer the
field of wir to the banks of our western waters.
France has long iamented the dependency of
her rich rt-ed Ir.dia colonies upon the commerce
of th« United States. She has with an avari
cious eye beheld us reaping the golden harvest
reletved for herfel.', and anxious to wrest it
from ns, (he has repeatedly fought t" procure
from Spain a province on onr Wefttrn bounda
ry. Dif'app. irtfed there, and emboldened by a
confidence of iuccefs, (he will cross the Miffif
lippi, snd a' teo.pr to efieCl by military prnwefs,
whit ihe vainly hoped to accornplifh by intrigue.
Let nsr, Mr rrelident, anticipate an event which
might meet us Unprepared ; as-d by an early fet
tlenieut of tins cxteiifive country, endeavor to
fecilrei; from the predatory incu.rlions of a fa
"vage foe, or tf e more regiiUr and alarming en
croachment* of a civilized enemy.
The Souihern are particularly miertft
eJ in encoui aging the immigration of foreigner,, 1
Ivlot on'y in the extent of their territory wholly
difproporti nate toi their narrow population, but 1
unfcrturiatelv, a large part of that population !
cor.fifts of (laves Warned of the impolicy of '
a gsneral manurniffion, by tne fatal experience 1
of e .-neighboring country, they view with infi- !
«ite c. ncern the continual increafrof an evil al
ready grow ir to an alarming height ; and thev '
consider rspid acc\ffion of white inhabitant's '
by migrations from abroad, its only remedy. '
Bv augmenling the ratio of freemen to (laves, (
tht-y cah effectually preserve their internal tran- c
quality Bec i; the ordinary course ofppopul- r
ti on, the negrqes, whole condition has been r
within late years considerably ame ! iora'ed, mul- a
tiply even more rap dty than the whites : and j
were rhe Jrcefs of foreigners cut off, the people <j
of the South might, at some future period, be r
compelled like the Lacedemonians, either to c
Cubniit to be m:(Tacred themselves, or to murder ;
in cool blood their miserable (laves. c
Every wife ft.-ite would direCl its operations a
with a view to increase the number of itsinhab- e
itants. To effeCl this important objed, agricul- |j
ture is encouraged, the art» are promoted, and t j
commerce is extended. I,» (ho'rt, the multipli
cation of its members together with their per- c;
fc&ion, is the sole objeCV of civil society ; and,
lurely, so important a of attaining this h
end, oue which has ever been, and still continues d
to be, so highly advantageous to the United ; f
States, (bonld not be negleCled.
It i 6 not, however, in the effeCl of foreign a ,
immigration upon the populationof the country, t ]
that 1 view its only benefit. The improvement
it introduces in our agriculture, are of equal, if t \
not greater, importance to the wealth and pow- pl
er of the United States. Onr emigrants, Mr
Prelident, are from old countries. In every
country which has been long fettled, the popu
lation of which has become as extetifive as its
means of fubliftence will prrmit, we find habits
of induflry aud oeconomv-pervading the differ- (]
erit c'afes of the community. The pain of want
and the disgrace of poverty, here operate as
powerful motives to exertion ; and aniidft the
fcarftme/s of fubfiftunce, t! e difpofiiion to parsi
mony is early formed. Inured to labor, the.in
habitants of such a liate poflefs the power of ic
quiring property j and having often felt the
want of it, they can justly appreciate its value.
When, impelled by a deiire to improve their
condition, or flying from famine or oppression,
they leave their native cpuntry, they carry with
thein their habits and manners controlled in *
eariy life ; but they often meet with men whole
character is wholly different from theirown.
In new countries, luch, particularly, %s have ti
been favored by nature in their climate and foil ? 0 j
meH are accustomed to procure fublillenee with
but little exertion. The motives to induilry are
kere to* weak, and habrts of idleness are quick
ly ated among the pecple- Having never ; w
endured the pain of want, and fur rounded by > a
: enty, they soon lose the manners of weir :n
---. ccit.j. s yftU» l< ad.da'Ugihted fn activity.
We need onlyrurn to these countries to fee the
- cffeCl of tlie;r manners upon agriculture. In
the one country we behold a garden. The hand
of BrceiTity here direCb the genius of the farm
er to nnmeriUs inventions calculated to improve
J. or abrid.'e tile operations of labor Every me
thod of fertilizing the foil is discovered. The
implements <if htilbandry are all made perfeCl,
Numerous machines are coiiftru&e 1, to prepare
the produce of the earth formarket. Every un
necfliry expenditure' is cut off; every article that
w Can be applied to an ufefnl purpose is carefully
n. preferred. liiduftry and ceconomy continually 1
e- augment the private capital of the farmer : his
to ltock destined for the employment of produCUve
labor ; for improving the lands, and augment
ing he revenue of.the (late.
: s . In the other contrry,what a ce'.itraft is prefer.t
fa to our vi&iy'? -'Agriculture feetns here intended
'd f° not to improve or adorn the territory.
' The eye dwells wi;h more pleasure on the forefts,
than on the fields. In the facility with whicU the
ordinary wants of human nature can be supplied,
the planter is negligent both in acquiring rtnd accu
-1 inu!,jtiii% wealth Oe firjl leads htm to iJlenefs in
'e cultivating t!ie earth ; the latter, to prodigality,
e- fometimcs called bpfpitality, in confummg its'fruns
it i'offcfffd of large traits of lar.d, he imag
:- ines thitthe greaterthe space over which he spreads
le a certain quantity'of labour, the preater will be
jf its. product. In pursuance of this favouiite idea,
i| the Cored is made every year to groan beneath the !
I-. axe of the labourer. A ruinous cultivation soon
)r impoverilhes the cleared lands, and it will yield no
e more to the little labour bellowed upon it. More
land is open d; this is as quickly deserted as the
n former The planter now removes to another dif
i .. triif ; he traycrfes the desolate fieljU that surround
r him. and recommence* hisfydemlnvack. The
0 whole country ik at length i.kpoveriihcd; and, com-
pellcd to emigrate to remote sorest;, he robs the
* favagu of his aifcKjigbr, and converts his hunting
f witi-h into barten plains. Should the planter
' remain ftationiry after having exhaulled hi» land,
't is Hecaufe; reliditig in the neighbourhood of fonie
lraall village, he has involved himfelt in debt, and
ai.. is too poor to remove. At his death,he leaves
hh offspring <6 Ihare a patrimony, which, with its
- vOtiqmlirancetj reduces them to; begging.
In the interim, the industrious pvex, who have
- emigratedfromatroad.havingamaffed a small sum,
1 thewagisol a fttir years labour, purcliafe the w«rn
i out land. Educated under hardships and fatigue,
; t<iey are not difcoufaged by the wretched paofpeCt
f before tnera. They reduce to r.raCtice tlje fyltem
t of agriculture to which thsy had been accudomed
. at horn;, rhey extend their labour ojer no more
, !anr..than their expedience tells them they can
, thoroughly till, and prefervc perpetually fertile.
. They acquire riches, and render them permanent
by their application. Satisfied with a fmaU but
commodious dwelling, the greatest part of their
annual income is employed in erecting (belters for
their labouring cattle, and store houf s for the
. prcfervati6n ®f their jjrain. They generate habits
of indudry in those around them, by teaching them
a new and mere profitable system or agriculture.
Their example spreads ; their implement! of hus
bandry, their valuable machines are copied. The
country assumes another afpedt : ft is cioathtd
with constant verdure, and crowned with rich
o chards binding to th; earth. Its mains of lub
fiffence infinitely multiplied, extend its population
augment its-Wealth and power.
These oJ-fervations, applying more particularly
to the southern part of the United States, are con
firmed by appearances every where. Let me alk
Mr. P. in what (late does -agriculture flourifh
more? in Pennsylvania : and yet, Pennsylvania is
among the latest fettled dates. She, however, by a
toleration of all religious tenets, and by other wife
regulations, has encouraged the emigration"of fo
reigners, and we have accordingly, seen her in lit- ■
tie mere than a Angle century, outstrip her filler
dates in population, in agriculture, and, in fine, in
every art, that minillers to the wants, or fumifhes 1
(he conver.iei.ces of life. And wh-re do we find 1
the bed cultivated country in the southern dates ?
Whe-e do we ind either foreigners or emigrants |
from the north who have been themselves taught
Ly forsigners ? 1
The immigration of foreigners into America has a '
no left beneficial influence over the arts in general. '
The importance of manufacturing arts to &very <
date, whether feparattd from other [late*, or con- j
n idled with them in a political focicty, cannot be /
queftioiied. In an agricultural country,, without
manufactures, thefurplus produce of the foil, hav- '
ing no home demaad to Ijpply. mud be exported J
to a foreign market ; and the people are dependent :
upon foreign nations for the ornaments and conve- ]
nienccs of life. Hence, in a time of war, unless the
date be possessed of a navy adequate to the protect
ion of its commerce,-it will not Ox ybe dellitute I
of the comforts ef life, but it will be also unable to 1
dispose of those commodities from which its revenue J
is derived. The mors bulky articlet arc, besides, un- V
fit for exportation during a J>ate vf -war, and the de
mand for them both in peace and -war, particularly f
for that part of th.m which confids of the ntceffa- "
ries of life, is uncertain, virying with the chaugej h
of the fejfons, and the progreft of devadations in c
other countries. In the ordinary course of seasons, (■
the produce of the earth in every country, if not '
deftroytd by it«enemies,is adequate to thefupport 0
of its inhabitants. To procure the greated certain 0
revenue, a nation (hould, therefore, promote the a
progress of the arts. Its own artists will, then, lj
afford a cenftant market to the farmer for his a ,
surplus produce : and add the value of that pro
duce, and of theirown labor to that of the rude
materials manufactured for home or foreign .
confuanption But, although, it is admilted, li
that the arts are of the greatest importance to a e '
country, I all be told, that in America,"the w
•wages if labor are so high as to prevent their y
eltablilhment. I would alk how is the price of D j
lahor to bs lowered ? or, supposing it to c«n
tir.ue at its present rate, how is the evil com W
plained of to be remedied .' The value of labor P 1
cannot certainly be lowered by diminifliing the lo
quantity of it brought to market. Where the ti;
high price of a commodity is occasioned by the dt
demand existing for it, the only way of redtic- tt
ing it; is to increafg the quintity offered for i
sale ; ihis method of lowering the price of any ,
article, will always prove effeflual. As far, '
therefore, as the emigration of foreigners into
America augments the quantify c,f labor in the e>
American market, so far does it promote the td
practice of the arts by reducing the wages of the as
laborers employed in them
(To be Continued) th
. si (
RICHMOND, Augull 21. pi
On WediiiCday the 15th of August, '9B, ta
Capt. Roger Gregory with his Sub.il- oj
ttrn officers, belonging to the Light in* ul
fan{rjr company annexed to the firlt bat- fe
talion of the 33d regiment of Virginia gi
militia, waited on G>n. Marsh iil with w
the folio witig address, signed by ninety of m
the said company. ra
h:
J 0 gen. John Mar/bal. v*
SIR, * q
AMIDST the general congrat«lati- fe
ons which have welcomed you to your na. w
tive land, be pleased, Sir, to accept those ju
of the Light Infantry company, belonging he
to the Ift battalion of the 33d regiment.
Called into the service ot your country, so
we behihi your departure with mingled e- an
motions ©1 regret aud exultation; whilli pr
:n " jwe anticipated" the temporary absence of a
[ friend wiiofe focifty we L ved and admired,
In I wc v, '?re prou los «. iti/.eii, ca
,nd l'P 3 ble by tiis dilii-igniflie.i taltnu apd s rtijt
; ol vmdicJlttng mir vii.htfd rights, aod mai l
»ve 1 tanking' the honour, dignity and itdeptn-
J deuce of our government. We were not
j ignorant of the Sacrifices you were about to
ire i accepting an apnoi nment which
m . ' was tofeparate you from y Kir famiiy, your
■lat ! friends and prnfefforial pursuits ; nor can we
fly ever cease to feel the molt graceful sense of
lly 1 the services which your patriotism and u-iih
!'' s . j terefted exertions have upon this occasion
INe rendered to your country. In fulfilling the
important duties of the million to France
r.t- we ave ' ,?< lto admire the patienrc, the
led firmnefs arid the talents so eminently dif
ry- played by oui envoys. We have seen per-
forral indignities offered to thenifelvef, wnich
ed col4 ' < l "' H provoke them to iorget the lan
tu- £ U3 £ e °f peac;,and reeoneiliation ; neither
in the artifices; nor the menace' of the corrupt
ty, despots of France, couid ftduce them to
ns commit the fafety, the honor and indep^n
ids ence °f America by purchasing for her a
l, e temporary and delnlive peace. A peace
ea, I which putvhafed by the abafem:nrot our,
he national charai'ter and fove-eigntv, w- uld
011 only have served to expofc the weakness of
no % • •
, re our government, and to invite a repetition
he °f i-ujurief. The refufal of our enemies to
if- negocinte, nay even to listen to our corn
fid plaint, could not prevent our envoys from
proclaiming at the feit of despotism itfelf,
lie aat * ln a at o ,lc e decent and manly, by
,g arguments tlie most able and canviacing to
er vindicate hcr.csufe, and to expose the in
/uttice, the perfidy and the ambition of the
French Republic. ,
es J ou llave ,;cen unfuccefsful, fir, in the
ts ohjedt. of your mission, but you have ob
tained for your country a glorious triumph.
" Our government, convinced that peace
"• wasunattainable butuponterms incompatible
with its honor, fafety and independence,
a had nothing to do bui to prepare for war ,
m and relying the united efforts os-its
citizen,, to repel the unjust of
„ a nat ion, rsgardlefs of every law which
c could ftt bounds to its rapacity and ambi
tioh. We behold those preparations with
firn-nefs, and confiding in the juflice of our
lr cause, feel no apprehensions as to the event.
Ie Accept, Sit, our best wishes for your !
ti pcrfonal happiness, and may the thanks of j
t, a gratefid country reward you for the emi- |
c nent services which you have rendered her, '
j which General Marshall returned the '
j, following an fwer.
To thu Light Infantry Company bel nging to
n the F'trjl Battallion of the Regiment.
[y Rereive, Gentlemen, my unfeigned and
1- grateful ackriowledgmentii for thecongratu- !
lations vvith which you have been pleased !
i, to welcome my return to my native land—
a congratulations which are the dearer to me
e becaule they proceed from you.
>- Your kit.d regrets felt at my departure,
y° Ul ' anticipations of the fidelity with which
I fh .uld endeavor to dilcharge the dutiti
- a afiigned to me, your flattering approbation
d of the condua of the late envoys from the
? United States to France, an approbation
ts founded on a eomplete knowledge of that
111 conduft—-thefe fratiinents and the warm
a and cordial manner in which you express
1. them, make on my mind an ioipreffion as
y deep as it will be lasting, and whenever ir
future my memory (hall retrace the var:rd
® scenes qf my life, the truly friendly lecep
tion given me by the Light Infantry Com
d panv belonging to the firit battallion of the
33 d Regiment, will be classed among the
- molt pleasing of them.
* While I rejoice gentlemen, that you ap
c prove both the firmnjsfs and the patience
3 manifefted by the envoys of the United
» States, while I declare that firmn. fs to have
been supported by a devotion to the ir.de- 1
" pendence of this country which 110 circum
. stances crn ever shake, and that patience to
s have been maintained by a deep-rooted foji
-1 citude for peace, and a determination to ef- 1
> fay all juftifiable means for its attainment, I 1
. ought also to observe that the inflrudtions of
, otir government and its well known wishes 1
: as well as those of our fellow citizens at
1 large, marked out and prescribed in plain <
1 and legible charadters the line of conduit 1
which has been pursued. The objefts of s
the mission were to do juflice, to obtain jus- 1
tice, and to preserve peace. The efforts t(J »
effect these objects were hncere, the means f
were chofeu with the bell judgment the en- 1
voys possessed, that the means were unhap- I
pity unfuccefsful is imputable to they t
were Unable to controul. I recognize with
pride and with pleasure the spirit of my felt
low citizens and of freemen in the fcntimcnt d
that the fafety, the honor and the indepen- si
dence of America would have been co> >mit- p
ted by the purchase of a temporary and dc- t
lufivc peace——a peace which purchased 1
by the abatement of i.s national charader I
and sovereignty, could oaly have served to c
expose the w«aknefs of its government a d g
to invite a repetition of injuries. Nation ii
after nation has evinced the jtitnefs of dm 11
sentiment. Nation afier nation has fallen c
the victim of its credulity and mifplaeed con- si
fidence iu the efficacy of submission. Hap- si
py indeed will be the lot of America, it, c
taught by the experience of others, she u
opens her eyes on the approaching danger, t
uses all her means \o repel it, and thus pre- f
serves that liberty which is banished from so t
great a portion ef the earth. Since peace t
was unattainable, I think with you -entle- si
men, that wisdom and duty enjoin a prepa
ration for that W'-r which our government t
ha< fought in vain to avert by all those means v
vinich an independent nation can permit it- t
f'lf to use, and I rejoice to believe that ray b
fellow citizens behold those preparations ti
with firmnefs, and that confiding in the n
justness of their cause they fe.l no apprc- b
henfion as to the event. a
Accept, gentlemen, my warireft thanks ii
for .your wishes for my personal happioeis, d
and credit the fmcerity with which I reci- e
procate them. J.'MARSHALL. ji
a GEORGB rC"" V T, August 24.
I, To the Voter 1 ofthe Ci/f of A'napolis, of
i- Anne Am .<lcJ and? tins*: George's Coun
|e ties.
I- GEtiTIEJJ^,
1- Ii H iv it ex-p?t!i -nt thus pub icly to
it declare iny 4ct^riniuj(i -11 in leiveyou as
0 the representative of this Jitiriit in congress,
h if hjuoreJ by an e'e&iun to a feat in that
ir important flation.
e It is not praiticable or ncceflary at this
it" time to give you a detail of the motives
1- which have brought me forward on the pre
n sent occjfion —neither will I trespass 011
c | your patience by a lengthy avowal of my
e '■ political fentimeuts.
e I ' hop -, however, that a imjority/of 1 his
f_ diltrift will be to kn >w, that I am
and ever haw heeii \ decided friend rb the
1, : govern in •ntoH'he United Stat;s—that I
1 am and ever have b.'en a dccid;d friend to
r ; the wife, ii: ti and virtuous administration !
,t | of that govern.nent— that I co ilider our in- '
0 : dependence as an invaluable biefiing, and j
. I wi!l ever exert myfelf to p ot?*t it agniiiit
a j l ' le aggressions of France or any powar on
e {earth.
! The iitt'e malicious reoorts that are now
J | > n circulation 10 injure ray character, I hope
f: to have an opportunity of pr >vi ig to be as
, lalfe as the hearts of their fabricate s
j lam, with every feniimenf ot respect,
Your friend and servant,
, JOHN CHEW THOMAS.
t August 20.
, For the Centikel.
Were any one to fay our coullitntion was
. defigic-d to delfroy itfelf, the absurdity
would be inanifeft , yet calling our fedirion
, law uncoiititutional, appears tantamount
No inconvenience will result from that
law, to prudent men who value national
. welfare } and it is no part of the conftiui
. l ' on tu accommodate its internal enemies ;
although it mult protefl them if their con
' dust b= incfFe. five.
j I suef ue liberty, fecurud by government, con
p fifts in a total rciira'mt fiom evil, pad an en,
( tire freedom to do pood.
The people of America agreed in what
t niode their sovereignty Ihould be exercifej,
. their will etprefled and their force applied.
Vtfting in congress fuel: powers as had in
_ j effectually been cntrufted to the several
p j members of the confederacy ; and alio pow-
J er "to make all laws which shall be necef
| fary and proper for carrying into execution,
" j the foregoing powers and all other'powers
, } vested by this conilitution in the govern
-1 mant of the United States, or in any de
' partment or officers thereof."
7 These other powers cannot but relate to
the intent of that social compaft, to '• form 1
1 a more perfect union, eftabli/h jultiet, ensure
. ; domettic tranquility, provide for the com-' 1
1 mon defence, promote the general welfare,
• and secure the blefliugs of liberty to our
: selves and to our polterity." 1
Nothing therefore appears more constitu
tional, thaa an adt of the supreme power, 1
exprefling the will of the people, againlt '
dilunion, faction, national imbecility, and
licentioufnefa ; lor, againlt these evils, the I
conltitution was created ; and were they '
prevaleut, they would surely deflroy it. ■
A REPUBLICAN. '
Atigujl 1798. . ,
NEW-YORK, Aug. 25. \
COMMUNICATION.
A falfe Itatement of the fracas at the old <
Coffee-Houfe, on Wednesday evening, hav- t
ing been made by the Irilli renegado in the '
1 ime Piece of this morning, it may be fa- f
tisfa<3ory to receive a correct one, which we «
here present the public. t
The Time Piece of Tuesday lalt, having f
-as usual abused one of our citizens, a Mr :
M'DougaJ, he called at the office 011 Thurf- <
day morning for the purpose of difcoven'ag <
and pu.iifhiug the author. The foreman ■
of the pre Is, whose name we have not ob- 1
tained, denied Burke, and indeed said he *
had not beeu there for some time, but had i
sent luch piece? as he wiftied should be pub- c
lilhed. After foiae altercation on the sub- a
jedt of Mr. M'Daugal's errand, this fellow c
told him he ui.itng Co.be considered as t
Mi. Burke him/elt, and to a .fwer for what- a
ever had:apj*aved -at th- press, and that he n
would meet him at any place he wuuTd name, a
accompanied by one friend each, and give t
hi« fatisfadtion. The Oid Coffee-Houfe a
was agreed upon as the place, and that they o
should meet at 8 o'clock the fame evening, a
Mr. M'D.ihgal with'his pretended friend I
Mr. L<?af, went at th - time appointed, and n
thue met his antagouilt with his friend, li
After a few words M'Dougal flruck bimj c
but before a fv coud of time could pass, tfie g
door bu-ft i„ by a gang confiding of V
lixty people, who had affemfcled for the I
pose and lay under th.- houses in a Heigh- a
bor.ng ttrret, and at the giving of the watch a:
word " UP" had all rulhcd forward— t;
Every tning wai inltamly in confiifion, the tl
candles blown out, and as many as could ti
get at him, fell upon Mr. M Dangal, with g
intent it is imagined to dellroy him, but the -
notfe having awakehed the attention of the
citizei.s, u .Vlr. Knox, with Mr. Eevv and a
few others rushed in, and difcovtre'd such T
feats of prowess, as very soon todilpcrfe the
cowardly ralcals, who jumped out of the w
windows and doots «itli greater precipita
tion than they had entered, and it being
ftoa rumoured that the watch were at hand,
the word " UP" was again given, and in y'
two n.inutes not a man of t lie in was to be
fccn. -
Enquiry was fet on foot to iden
tify the names and perforis of some of the ]
villains, but in vain ; the mi that could ' s
then be coKedtcd was, that they appeared to \
be a band of Irilli, and that' they called
themfelvcs occasionally " The United Irish- "
men," and that this scandalous affair bad
be n set on foot anddirefteU principally by
a certain idle mechanic, who ktep.s a Jliop ~
in Maiden lane—l hardy know how to
describe him—he is tail, fl.m, fmock-factd,
eunuth looking g ntleman ; goes rather
jlmmily dressed, but with his i.oltrils much
pljgged with fuuff—lt will be ufelefg, how.
f ever, for any person of curiosity to go to
his (hop to look at him, for it is ten chances
to one if they would firfd him there, if they
could discover the hole where the envenom.
0 ed Irish spider has retreated from the light
s and spins his daily web of (lander for the
[, Tim? Piece, there they might poiSbly find'
t !iim—But to resume the thread of my story:
this young man is the fame one alluded to
s in the "I'ime Piece of this morning, as hav
s ing assured Mr. M'Dougal, " that he (hould
- be met at any place with one friend for the
1 purpofj: of receiving fatisfatfcion"—he had
r gone into Wilkie's porter house over against
the scene or aiftion, under pretence of play
s ing a game of draughts, but he kept such
i a nettling about, and running .o the door,
; himfelf always attitude of
liltenin ) as to excite the suspicions of eve
i ry one in the room, and at the firft found
I j of the word " UP," he left Jiis game and
i flew aerofs the way to countenance the mob
1 | —so much has been already discovered,
but we hope meafurea will be taken to drag
ihefe people to detediun and to puniflw
ment.
Having fold this, we assert in general
t< rins that such of the (fory in the
Time Piece as differs materially from this
ftai,exsnt is a fclutely fjife ; it might how.
ever be a wait of juflice .to Mr. vf'Dougal
not >o fay that the ac hint of his (Inking
the Irifliman at thv office is a Joy,fright lie
,iid worthy the author.
After the (tory is concl'i-led bv Burk he
fays, " Twenty-five Irish gerftlcmen have
l.fc their names at (his office to aftcomroo
date Citizen Putty or his friends. The
number be made up to 900 if ll^'ceff^ily.' ,
Now let rfie appeal to the citizens of New-
York, let me a(k our " Young Men" they
will tamely bear to be infuiteri and challen
ged in a public paper by 900 United Irish
men' Whoever has rea l the late accounts
of their canfpiracles tobu n and destroy the
city of Dublin, mull (huddeif to find by
accident that there are such numbers lurking
in this city—fc"r what purpose, God oiily
knows.
AN AMERICAN.
The name of the author is left with the
printer.
S I OCKBRIDGE August 21.
It will appear how well the government
of France calculated on their " diplomatic
(lull, and the zeal of their partizans to pa
ralize the measures of our government, by
the following extrafl of a letter tram a gen
tleman in the north part of this country.
" August 17th, 1798."
" Yesterday, several of us who had re
ceived a previous invitation, went to Pow
nal in order to /hew onraefpect to his Ex
cellency, the Governor of Vermont, whe*
we heard, had presented a certain company
with a standard, and was to b» entertained
on the occasion.
Whilst at dinner, informa ion was receiv
ed that a reserve of Jacobins who had been
left beMcd. were busy in erefting a LIBER
TY-POLE 10 grace his Excellency's march
back to Bcnnmgton. I (hould have added
that the Bennington and Shaft/bury Jacobins
anectc'd to come oh two hours before the
Governor, unwilling to honor his procession
with their presence ; but tliey accompanied
him back, to witness the degrading and un
precedented insult which was intended him.
I h?.d a few frk*£l friends, about 45 in all,
and offered perfunally to his Excellency to
march before him, cut down the pole and
clear the way ; but his prudence would not
fuller him to authorize us. However promt
edby curiosity, I wext up as far as C/arle'i
tavern, where the Pole was erefted. We
saw from a diflance that it was jruarded by
a parly who seemed to be brined. I pro
ceeded with a friend in my carriage, saw the
Governor again, who was then within ten
rods of the fhatnefu< cnfign of sedition, and
I warmly alked him if he would submit to
ride by it. He checked me, and I 'thought
>t my duty to submit. The Jacobnical
crew went on triumphantly, and I turned
about with a heavy heart and a full charge
of indignartor., which had not been lessened
by the repeated iufults offered to my cock
ade. After I had rode two mile 3 bacii, I
met capta.n Gardener, captain Ellfworth
and seven or eight more; they alked me if
the Governor had rode by the Pole ? I
answered in the affirmative. One of them
observed he hoped it would not take nor,
although planted in such favourable foil.
gave a hint how to prevent it, and fix and
mylelf in a moment pledged their honor and
life to each other. I gave , y carriage iu
charge to a friend, jumped behind a dra
goon an d borrowed one'of their swords.
We went to thclpot, placed five ceniuries;
I had a poll within C v yards of the pole
and covered Ellfworth. who handled the
axe. About twenty fellows rallied from the
tavern and came to oppose us, but we kept
them off with our s words, and the pole Im
tified our a few minutes with the
grateful its expiring g?oan» M
WILLI AM M'LAWi)
SADLER & HARNESS M.IKER,
H '° ,l,e C ""'" of Cheiiiut
uher- ? J eift h-ftrects, „„ ,| le Commons,
«here he and execute .he orde.s of
his friends and wholefate cunomers, with i,: ia l
Sexpeditwhi during the prevalence of
he preleut Epidemic, where it lias not made i'y
appearauce this season, „«.• during any of thr
years part 0 '
' rr :
fctor *
Ao. 28,• Fine-Street ;
"■ thear «i<*of3t.pw»;ogo, 0 go,
CII i 1 ■ ,CI lo 'h- inhabitants of i'hi-
W ihe line of hs piokmon. He
flatter, h.nit.t that bi, looy <uc Q cKful e*|.erie..«
in tlw \.ce-l I „,,»| t . vtl , >will rrocutekiln f( ., n .
fioence ol t"C CIIIZ.TS of th» dty j particularly
attacked by the present Epid.mic.
eoJ.,t ..
. 1 .it. buhlcrihers have remov
ed for the piel'ent f'ro/n Petin street to Eleventh-
Itre-t, between Ftfbcrtaml Hipfi-areets.
H , isf ranch.BY THIS DAY'S MAIL.
NEW-YORK, August zB.
POSTSCRIPT.
Late last night arrived (hip Jane, Gardner,
67 days from Greenock. By her we ri
have received papers to June 16, which w
contain London dates to the 13th, 4 \a
days later than any heretofore received ; 9
from which we Teleft the following : tl
LONDON, June 11. F
The Dutch papers received on Saturday tV
contain the following article received from w
Paris—" The seamen at Toulon evinced so re
much reluctance to go on shipboard, that, Ct
to obtain a fufficient number of them, do- S
miciliary vifitswerfe found indispensable. The p;
soldiers, on the other hand, feemei?? as the o!
phrase runs, as if they were going to a wed- ir
ding."
Twelve Spanish ships of the line, and 6
frigates, it is fai4» are intended to join the w
Toulon fleet from Carthegena and Barcelo- ii
na, which, with the transports, amount to ft
300 fail ; there are alio three advice boats, d
four bombs and 6 gun-boats.
The party of the mountain, or the terro 5
rills have acquired so powerful an afcendan. It
cy in France, that the directory have been f;
compelled to admit those recently tlcfted to b
live councils. To counterafl,however, their tl
influence and desperate machinations, the j si
dire£tory have liberated all those numerous ; ti
royrdifts who had heen confined immediate- i J
]y preceding,and fiibfequent to the ele£lions. \
All accounts ag-ce in the increased prof- g
pe£l of a political convulsion being oa the t
eve of taking place. a
The following battalions aw ordered for t
Ittland :
The firft battalion of the second regi- (
ment from the tower ; the firft battalion of v
the 3d regiitient from Portland barracks; v
and the third battalion of the firft regimect o
doing duty at Wincliefter. *'
The whole confiding of 24 companies, v
Bfo met) ib each company, amounting to
1920 rank and file. a
Gen. Stanwix has the command of the li
troops on. this expedition. d
All the men of war at Spithead, ready a
for sea, have received orders to fail on the
fho'teil notice, after the embarkation !)f a
these troops. r
The letters jby the Lilbon jnail f
state the very unexpefted return there ps J
rear admiral Nelson, who was supposed to i
have gone up the Mediterranean. He re- 1
joined the fleet with all the ships that had f
been placed under hia command, after hav- r
ing victualled and well stored them at O'b- f
raltar. On the fame day the Alcmene frigate c
brought in a valuable Spanilh frigate from ]
Buenos Ayres. 1
Intelligence was received in town on Sa- i
turday that Sir Roger Curtis had joined 1
Earl St. Vincent with five fail of the line. 1
It is generally understood here, that Lord <
St. Vincent will fail with his whole force to
meet the Toulon fleet: leaving the Spaniards 1
to their own option of putting to sea or not. ]
June 13. i
If credit be given to a letter from I
Malta, a revolution has been effedted in thai'
Island. It is believed in Italy, that this is
one of the objedts of the expedition from 1
Toulon. . The property at Rome belonging 1
to the island of Mal'a, has been already
confifcated for the benefit of the French
republic.
A vefTel has arrived at Yarmouth, whieh
was taken bv the North Sea fleet, and sup
posed to be bound for Ireland, as it had oil
board a great number < >f pikes, with arms,
cloathing, kz. Another vessel with 20,000
Hand of a- ms, intended for the rebels, has
been captured by one ofadmiral Kingfmill s
fqnadron ; and one, wtth 12,000 Hand of
arms, is nlfo reported to have been captu
red by Lord Hugh Seymour. (Star, j
Pilots have left this country, for the pur
pose of conducting the Ruffian fl.et into
our seas. It is not certain what station it is
to take ; but there is every disposition in
that court heartily to co-operate in the plans
of our cabinet. This fleet, which is said
to confi.lt-of icq fail of the line and five or
fix frigates is expeCted very soon.
GLASGOW, June 16.
Paris Paper's till-tfee 9th inft. were receiv
ed on Wednesday. They contain no news
of any confequepce. The destination ot
the Toulon fleet is ftili unknown.
DUBLIN, June 7.
Sir Edward Crofbie. Bart, was tried at
Carlow yesterday, found guilty, hanged,
his bead taken off, and put on the top ot
the gaol with a few of his friends.
Sir Edward Crofbie, Bart, was the head
of a very anrient family, but of an impan
ed fortune, and we are informed, enjoyed
for a long timepaft apenfionfi|pm the crown.
He had been called to the Irilh bar, at
which he praftifed for a (hort time, and had
diftinguiJhed himfelf by tffe zeal which he
displayed iti promoting the formation of the
volunteer corps wh ch associated in Ireland
before the conclusion of the last war. He
was the confidential friend of Hamilton
Rowan, Coun. Tone, and Napper Tandy.
Dublin Cattle, June 9.
Extraa of a letter from lieutenant general John- I
l'on, to lieutenant general Lake, dated at Hols ,
«• I {■.ndyou'a return of the killed, wounded
and mtiGnp of the troops engaged or. the ?th
instant Their numbers von wil , I tiuit, find
r not great, when you take i«to enumeration the
numbers they were opposed to- This must be
imputed to their ga!lantr>.
» From the bell accounts which have been re
vived, the number of rebels killed, „ fta.edto
be upwards of aooo. Their wounded must have
be n very confulerable, but the number cannot
he acert-lined as they were carried off by the re-
Vj '<•' The general severely regrets the loss of
/hat brave officer Lord M untjoy, who fell ear
ly in tke cor.test " . .
' A letter has also been received from major
general Nugent, at Belfaft, dated the
which states, that the rebels di.perfeH in al
directions, except at Toome, whither general
knox and colouelCUv*ing were proceeding,
ar.d tfcit fnany lUd huJ d.vjjn their ' feoi
arms. June n cat!
We have h-ard wit'i concern tint Ipr i Kingf
borough ha 9 fjlle.i into t'le liandt of tiie rebels. Ex
■ i
FROM THE ril'llty '
By the (hip June, Captain Gardiner, ar
rived lad night fnm Grenuck in 67 days,
we have received files of G1 ifgoiv and Edin- am
Uirgh papers to'the 18 of June, inclusive, "
9 days Jattr than anv European intelligence. det,
that fias been publiflied ia this country. cre
From their late dates we expe&ed to fee art
their contents of greater importance than
we firid them upon examination. They were
received last evening at a. late hour. We g u
cannot, therefor, give more ihati a brief
Summary for this morning's Diary. .Our ,
paper tomorrow will ample details "
of every thing in them that may be judged
interfiling or important. "
The most prominent articles are thofc " a '
which refpe£t the affairs of Ireland. The ®°
iufurgents and the king's troops have had
several engagements, two of them especially jy|'
desperate, in which the latter have been uni-
formly viftorious. At New R n fs, on the
sth June, the rebels were defetted with the j
loss of upwards of 2000 (some accounts
fa) 5000) killed, and a conlid?rab!e num-
bcr of wounded, who were carried off by
their party. On the 7th they ware driven
from Antrim (of which place tbey had just £■
taken pofltffion) with great flaughtirr, by
Major General Nugent. j.
In the aflion of New Rofs the infur- j
gents were said to be 10.000 strong, the
troops only 1400. The battle commenced
at 4 o'clock in the morning, and did not an
i terminate until 5 in the evening.
| On the 12th an exprefi was received from
Gen. Nugent, Bating that D&nagh.adee
was in polLfiion of the Rebels, vfhere they
were in great force ; and that in the north
of Ireland, from jColerain to Larne, tlicy
were assembled in the b-*ft manner they
were capable of. «
In the French Council of Five Hundred
a proposal to open a new credit for 20 rail
lions of livres , nearly 900,000 (lerling) for
defraying the expenses of the expedition
against England has been adopted.
The Bien Inforrne, contains a detailed
account of the steps which the French Mi
nister of Foreign Affairs has taken to juftify
himfelf from the imputations which the
publication of the documents relative to W
American Negociations at Paris had thrown
upon him. This interelliog account con
fijtjs.of a correspondence between Talley
rand Perigord and Mr. Gerry, on the
fnbjett of the publication, aqd the mystical
characters alluded to in it, under the titles of j
W. A. Y. and Z. This correspondence j .
is preceded by a laboured defence of the
«ondu& of the French Government with j
refpeft to America, and an endeavour to
refute the charges which the American do- , p
euments contain. . j j.
The Emperor of Germany is arming ;he '
has declared he cannot agree to the.last pro-
pofals of the French Ministers at Raftadt ;
and the king of Pruflia has also declared that •»
-. they are inadmiflible. ' q
The Marquis Cronwallis is appointed Lord ,
Lieutenant of Ireland, with full powers to !
coerce or conciliate at'circumttances may
require. _ - j
General Buonaparte is off Corsica.
Accounts received in London state that
France is apparently on the eve of political
convulfnn. <
Auct- 27. ,
HIGHLY INTERESTING. '
From Norfolk, Aug. 23. ,
" A St. Mary's (Potomack) pilot-boat
arrived here on Tuesday evening, spoke that
morning, a Danifli barque 45 days from
' Hamburgh, the captain of which requested
them to inform the printer-, that Russia,
Sweden and Denmark had declared war
AGAINST FRANCE "
i BOSTON August 24.
Yeftcrday arrived in town from Bayonntr,
! via Marblehead, Mr. Hinkley, late mate of •
I the Galen. -He brought no papers, but in
• form that he heard Lord.St. Vincents had
gone in to the Mediterranean in purluit of the
Toulon fleet, leaving a to confine
the Spaniards to C idiz ; That a war was
- expefted with America, and privateers.were
1 equipping for the indiscriminate capture of
f our feffels.—
On the Banks of Newfoundland, spoke
a fifhing schooner, thxt had fallen in with
the brig Mar a, of Boston, capt. Hatch,
t from Bourdeaux for Charleston, that had
, met with brig Sophia, from Havre for Plu
s ladelphia, on board of which Gerry
~ was a passenger.
1 The vessel in which Mr. Hinkky came,
was the Hannah, capt, Bcfom. She had
1 56 day3*paffage. L lat. 41, 3'.' on f>'-3 2 >
was boarded by the French privateer Fancy
t of Nantz, of 18 guns, who clofeiy examined
1 the papers, and finding her to be only in bal
e last, fuffered her to proceed. Lat. 44, 36,
e long. 44, spoke brig Angelica, Koberfon, of
d Philadelphia, 24 days from Lifson. Cap
e tain cams on board and delivered Dispatch
n es for Government—thinking they would be
fafer and arrive soOner in the Hannah.
Left at Bayonne.
1- Vessels. Owned. State. Fake,
fs Nelly & Kitty, Baltimore, 011 trial 450,000
Adelaide, do ' do " 160,000
d Federahft, Charleston, emid. 150,000
b Superb, Boston, on trial 100,000
,d Galen, d<> ; conJ,, ,jco,ooo
ie Mtria, do do 40,000
ie Three Sifters Wifcafiet, do ao.ooj
PiWrim, Beverty, do 8,000
e- Me°rcury, Marblehead, do 25,000
■,». Hannah, ' d° doex.veU7.ooo
r e Retrieve, Newburyport,do 15,000
ot Esther Glonceller, do la.ooo ,
, f'etrev. Philadelphia, do 150,000 ;
aK, d 0 lo'I o ' 80,0,0 '
of Ruby do .do »7,000
r ' . Dollars, *1,474.0°°
or Thi' fomputajicni' much too low-. Besides
ft these, fix i"hip» have bein condswed at B >ur
jl'l . deaux ; and no one beared
!' Letters have b«:i reeeivcd.in town dated I^f-
arms
ton, July 7, bat cor>iainih£' no news. TifrJ
camt by she way of Marblsliei A. #. PC.
Extract tf plitter from a rcspeSabhgt\tlemm
in Malaga, dated June ' - - - * W
" flicrr is it thistnne a report circulating J 1 - 1 -
lhat adminl Nellon, has fallen in with theTmi.
lon fleet, taken ft>rw, fuok others and pit the Yu
remainder ti Hiuhr. This' ne*s it to gaod, I [ 0
am fearful it will not p*.»ve tine. '£■{,
" Die ■er ler which re ently prevailed h;re> for
detaining all French privateers, and fending their
crews to Toulon,-(mi Ceased to operate, aad .they
arc ailiv.ly equpinij again." . . Srri
7tli
FROM SURINAM. the
We are'informed, thnt the Governor of at <
Surinam, juttly irritated by the irregular to I
conduit and horrid p.oceed ngs of the peo
ple of Cpyentie, has ordered five irigates of
40 guns each, to liberate anyMieutral vcffel, cha
flopped by the privateers <rf that place, and he
to enable them to reach the river of Suri- int<
nam. It is strongly coiijeCtured that a fie- Ac
gociation exilts I etween the Britilh and the fay
government of Surinam, from several reci tag
procal proceedings, in favor of eac 1 other, re i
Markets -are extremely high, provilions very tha
Ccarce, lumber and dry much wanted. rijf-
Mr. a refpe&abte meichiut of Phi- pot
ladelphia, being at Cayenne with a veuel and den
carge, at the time Pichegru, &c. efcapud, pul
was charged with being concerned in that mo
bulinefa, arretted, put in irons, and sent
on board a frigate to be carried 10 Fiance
for trial. > the
. Captain Hill saw a letter A Cayenne can
from the Governor of Surinam, in which
he obferveck, there had but two velfels arri
ved with provifioris for two months; th-.it tha
there was'neithei bread nor fait meat there, \va
and that the troops were wf fed on
caffadars and frefh meat.
Wif ajpt, Aug. 17. tar
Or. Tudclay evening lalt, Meffra. ilenry prt
Holkins and John W. Scott, editors and try
printers of the Wifcajfet Telegraph, were ar- ]tl
relied by ftlr. Timotfcy Parsons, for print- up
ing and"pub*li(hing, on the 25 th day of May
lallt, a pieee of Miscellany under the figna- let
ture of •'Philo Jacobin." we
' 1 ——- at
Xi je <Esa;ette. 2
-■ ■ ■ - i • ■ - 1 ■ ITU
PHILADELPHIA, be
WEDNESDAY EVENING, August 29.
CITY-HOSPITAL REPORT, 1°
From 28th to 29th August. f 0
ADMITTED.
1 Mary Canady, Walnut, by 4th ft.
\ Hugh Dougherty, Elmdie's alley. T
1 John Brown, above Kenfmgton bridge.
1 Latitia Mecru., b]
I Ann Meeker, 3d above Lombard ftj p;
Geo. Herbert, sign of the ox, Cable Lane, bi
| Patrick Nicholfoo, 2d below Cathatine ft, a ,
' Isabella M'Clane, No. 6 Norm's alley. I
John M'Callifter, 4th, corner Plumb ft. it
Betsy Vfcicke, No. 78 south 2d ft. t<
Johu Miftey, No. 2 Chancery lane. p
M'Cormick, a child, 3 years old. ri
Geo. M'Cormick, do. 21-2 do. si
died. t
! George Bredan 4 days ill previous to ad- a
Elizabeth Jemmifan 2 do li
Paul Houghey 3 e
. Charles Munday 5 t!
' Catharine Duffy 4 v
Patrick Kairns 4 t
i Ceoige Herbert 3
| Sally Terry refufed to submit to remedies. r
j Eloped—John Campbell. f
t { Remaining in the Hospital, 67, 20 of whom c
are on the recovery.
Interred in Hospital Gfound. t
j F-om City Hospital 8 a
City and Liberties 10 t
Total 18. j
PHILIP S. PHY SICK. i
SAMUEL COOPER. (
JAMES THOMPSON, Steward. {
' f , By order of the Board of Managers, ,
Wm. JONES, Prejident.
d Attest,
e Wm. Penrose, Clerk pro tt.m.
Buried in the several Cha ch burying
, c grounds, exclusive of those at the Hof >ital
jf for the 24 hours ending at 8 o'clock lalt e
vening— 13 adults —8 children.
SIXTY-NINE new cases of the prevail-■
Ij ing fever, reported by 25 Physicians, for
, the last 24 hours.
f_ Died—On the 27th : nft at Trenton, af
an illness of 24 hourj, Mr. North, late
Clerk in the office of the Accountant of the
e War Department.
5 of this city.
'y , Mr. G'tfford Dally.
f The Commiyee who have charge of the Ten's
t' will be mi-ch obliged to such of their fellow
' citizens, who fnav have any draw to ciifpofe of,
. il" they will be kind enough tn fend it to the
Terfts, on the Commons near the Powder House
1 as the fame is much wanted to make the Ctua
}e tioti of the Poo r comfortah e.
By order of the Committre,
"PETER MIERCKEX, chairman.
jo DONATIONS,
30 Received at the Tent ', near Schuylkill, for the
so use of the Poor.
30 August 28—One waggon load of Straw,
30 from Mr. Peter Robefon.
?? By order of the Committee.
ao PETER MIERCKEN, Chairman.
00 Augujl 29.
00
°° APPOINTMENTS—By the Prefijfnt.
00 Samuel S tgreaves of Pennsylvania, Com
00 miffloner under the Sixth Articie of the
' Britilh Treaty—vice James Innes, Esq. de
— csafed.
>oo Lient. Colonel Thomas Butler, com
le» manding the troops of the United States
ur " in the Stale of TennellVe, Commifiiorer for
, treating with the-Cherokee Nati- n of In
;f dians—*icc John Steel, Esq. refined.
' I,474>°°° '
A letter from New Vati fays, that 130
pcrfons u<re iake« lick in that city o 1 Sa- Fri
turday htft wi?h a ritdent d'fouler, and vet wai
the New-Vork.p:ipers are lilent on the sub- froi
j jest. ma!
Both branches offjie Legislature of New sou
York have ti lanimoufiy.agreed to an address effo
to the Preildent of the United States —1
The address will appear to-morrow. was
c
L
B«che again repeats that the French fl-et cap
arrived on the coast of Ireland, about the bon
7th June—but infills upon it that they kept _r:
the matter so private, that it was not known a
at Cork, four days after the event, owing der;
to the extent of the island. lade
tion
The editor of the Aurora of yellerday, is r
charges some merchants, Whose only God, Gei
he fays is money, with Introducing the lever Au (
into the city—Bache did not consult the
Academy in this cafe—he then goes on to
fay, that tliefe merchants fly from the con- j
tag'oll, Biid " comfort themfelviS in their
re iremcnt with this humane consolation j
that few except the dregs of the city, the '
r'J-rqff, that is th 4 honelt and laborious L .
poor, luffer from the disease." The ten- m 2'_
dency, if not the objeß of luch villainous
publitations must be obvious, they merit
more than thev can receive
- , r
The jacobins laugh in their lleevc that -V
the federalitls (hould Hart tuore than one core
candidate in several ditl'rids. i, v t f,
of th
Bache, or oue of his paragraphifts infills
that the Meditcrrayran lea, in not like a ?'
water tub placed in light ot Lisbon.
MR. FENNO,
At a time, when many diilrefied inhabi
tants arc flying from' tiie city, to avoid the t k c
prevailing fever, it ill becomes tfieiiJ-coun- 1 V ai!
trymen to tufa ihetn u.ikiudnefs, much 1 npp
lei s. is it becoming to practise impufitions *
upon them. . ptr
I am led to this reflexion by receiving a ' a
letter from my coiWpqn lent to th? south- —-
waul, who writes me, that the tavern keeper
at Baltimore was so surly, there was no a Ik
ing him to do any thing.—Good reason,
may exilt, to refufe admittance into Balti- t ., r
more to a person infefted, or fuppefed to wil
be infeded with a malignant fever, but nol pat
good reason can be aligned, for lan unfriend
ly behaviour to strangers, who conduct with
decency and pay seven Ihillings. and fix pence
for a dinner, four Ihillings and fix pence for tha
a breakfalt, and fix shillings and eight pence Sui
for a fuppcr.
AN OBSERVED.
To Mr. ——, Philadelphia, Aug. 26, '9B.
This day I received your load of lime, r l
by your lad, aged about fifteen years, and
paid him'for it, —he called it twenty eight ed
bulhtls ; —as we sometimes measure wood, j ol
and weigh bread in Philadelphia,' I thought th
I might, for once, without giving offtnef,
measure your lime ; accordingly I proposed _
to your boy to do it—he did not like my
proposal very well, biit was forced to sub
mit, as the pile did not look like over-mea
sure—rather than do it, he offered to a w
two bnfhels, but I c uld not agree to that,
as it was not a lair way, to take any of your
lime for nothing, so at it we went, and
every time we filled we alked the boy, if
there was too much, and when he said there
was, we (truck off til! he was latisliid, and
the whole was meafuied.
The quantity, bv ftri£t measure, was 1
nineteen bulhelsand a half, and I paid liiin q
for twenty one. and a halt, luppofing that (;
I one bushel might fly off or waite in the road. A
Thf, boy (tared, ar.d 1 believe vvt) 0
to fee us Measure his lime, and we ail (tared
and wondered too ; not lets than fix or leven
of us that were present. We parted how
ever without many words and the only ob- ( -
jaition he made was that we meaiured by a
half bulhel, I did not mind that much, nor j,
did I, as I intended to write to you on the
fubjeit, regard him much when he fai<l he
would tell his DADDY- (
P. S. V«u will excuse my not mentioning .
your name in the news paper at length. :
To Mr- , Aug. 27- 1
S A word to you if you plcafe, I bought r
and meafufed your load of lime.lo day, ypu
told me it contained forty five J)uft.els
you mcafured if fajrly yourfelf and found it
'" only thirty seven bulhels and a half, which
™ I called thirty eight bulhels, supposing it
waded half a bulhel, you "were, ■
content, and promised to tell the ftoneburn
er. From the cheerfulnefs you observed, in (
e meafuriug your lime, and the fatisfaft on
le you expreffcd, lam inclined to believe the •
difference was owing to an error, which I
II hope you will-avoid next time. Do bring
me another loati if you pkafe and with it
the lime burner's bill, mentioning the quan
tity, as the millers do with.flour.
•s
f > GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
le
re
a " New-Tori August 28.
Arrived, Days
Ship Rising Sur.,Thrmpfon, Philadelphia 4
Schr Prelident, Pcari'on, L ficderitkfburgh 10
John, , Jamaica 29
he Pieudent, Krrtt, Wafcmfjlon 6
Polly, 4 "SaviAnah
Wt Sloop Cornelia, Clark, Norfolk i
The Amelia, Grant, from Chirlefton t 1 Lou
don, has bsen taken by a privateer, retaken by
the rhcenix frigate, and sent toLortdun.
The Onion, I-unt, from America, is taken
by a Fresch privateer. _
The (hip Pair American, c»pt Tredwell, o
and for New-York, was to clear from. Geenock
im on the June. She mounts :z gutts.
Bojhn, Aug. 27.
Extract of a letter from ShMurnc, (Ne S.J
m . fated August 13.
ltes " This moment has come to anchor, the
for brig Nancy, capt. 'i aylor, of New-Voik.
In- belonging to Mcffrs. Thomas Buchanan and
C... from thsit «ty bound to Msdsffij which
W3S capt ;rid in fight of* iLr. "(t.n l-by 4
French privateer nuini ~o gn>'» « and
was rrtaken by ihc mailer anil two h"*i,
from fevtn French fans cu'rcttej I tJlc j.:i2c
maftef and two men) —'foot - of whorfi it
found neceffarv to throw overboard in llitf
effort to recapttire the vessel "
Tlie (hip Lydia, Burroughs, sis fijltofii
was at Litbon, Juijr t.
Shi > Elizabeth of Baltimore } and "i
capt. Tvlcr, of Providence, arrived at Lif»
bon fafe.
(C?* A meeting of the Merchants, Tra«
ders, Mechanics, and other citizens of Phi
ladelphia, that are frienis to the conllim*
tion and goven.mont i>f th ' United St
is requeued at the U' ion School hohic in
Gem. ntown, on Wednesday next 2o';»
Augult, at 4 o'clock P. M.
POS i-OFFICE.
Philadelphia s?'jgnjl 29. 175 ft.
LETi'ERS syr 'he liritifh Packet, sot"
Falmouth, will be received at thistsffice n
til Friday the jlltinfl. at la x/cloik tiooiu
N. B. The i:.land poltage to New-Yoila
muflbepaid. ;•
N 0 T'l C E.
Bank of North America,
siugu/l 28/ A, 1798.
r jpHOSE Persons who h**c Bills u> j>ay
X a* this Batik are informed,
That fcgLlar'Notiec* wili he out under a ft ale \
corcr difcCu-d to the -refpe fHve pa}«r ariu 1. zc I
in the P«>{l every Movtdiy until the ieta*i*
of th& citizens.
RICHARD T/ELLS, Cajbhr.
Aug. 29 . drf
Removal to Gefmantown,
fnm 136, Mar'iit-Strert.
£s* Richard Bayley'S: Co. for"
the accommodation cf their fjietklsdurittg the ;•: <4 •
vailing fickocjn 111 the City, hatfe opened a ;.n«r j
• oppolite Ui Doctor Martir.a, where they .will 1 .■.« \
an cxtWiftvc sffvxtnictt of Chip.rres, Mtiflir.k, 1
b'e Ltnip, arid cVvery other afticli the Liatfi :: a. •
pcry a A lluberdafhery lint.
augult 29. d 1:.
W, Young,
Booksl'itLEß "d yr.. : /!o\'Eli.
YNFORMS his frienils and wbolefalc cuuvn-rfi
A inthe country, Who ftr.a it difagrsaable (win
ter the city daring pM'mc F«*lr, That . Vfi
Will be received, add executed with 11 puffi'ji &.i
---patch, at rhe
WHITE-HALL. PRINTING OFFICE,
in th? white building, above the Mile Sto. e. o-i
the Ridlge-Road.
*Hiscuilomeis i" the eity\i#te also ittfor.iv it
that the Store in the City w ill lie open, everv i ,
Sunday excepted, from _<ine until One of the . 1 klc.,
aueuftsy- iliw
Bank <Jf the United States,
stugujl 28, I -t;£.
r'p'HOSE perrons'who hi v e Notes o.* I*lll ti
| 1 pay at this Bank, informed,
That regular Notices will be put under a !t '■«
" ed cover direiied to the refpeflive pajxi a .
» lodged in the Post Office every Monday um.l
« the return of the Citizens.
, G. SIMPSON, ccjhtcr.
1 august jawtf
r FLOUR FOR 6ALII.
By tht Sui/crib rs,
Deliverable at .i'n of tlie ports on the D '!a
---5 ware—who have aifo on hand at their ilor- - a '
quantity of Bar Iron, I'ork and Corn—Letter 6 l>y
' the post will be attended to.
J Levi Ho'lingsivortb Sen.
£ angufl »8. drf
e Arrived in the Jhip Ptnnfylvhma, Ctiit. Wf L->
_J LIAMSON, from Hamburgh, now lying at
Chejler.
f\ Number of GERMAN SERVANTS men.
\ women, boys aad giris, amongii whom .*.re
n Out'.fmiths, Carpenters, turners, Taylors, Disck
t faiiths, Gardenci s, Malons, Coachmen, HuntViu" ,
. &.c. &c whose tin»e of f'crvituiie i* to be dif,.ol»d
J of on board ilie Ship, by
d . GURNET SMITH.
auguU !?■
fp* 1 tie uffice oi the Board of.'
y _ ConunTflioucrs under jhv 6 h Articli of Tre;i
ty ©f Amity, 3cc. between Grcat-Britsfio and the
a Uniud otates, u removed to the houie of MatthtW
>r M c'.of.neU> ot the HariOrd Road.
Ie aiigust r 6
,e onJ" The Office of the Insurance
C» ittpooy of the s%*ft of Pcbiifylvania, wrcnoV
g d:o the Nonh wcit conArf cf Ninth md Market
erect?. "jlw augu(\ i;,.
®1 Mefirs NiCklin GuirriTtf.is the
1 reiidence of P. Nickiiti, near the Fails oi SchuyliciU.
• a'lieufl a<r. d6<
• c? i'he Office of the Insurance
j t Compaay >'£ Nor h America, is removed to tiiu
School Houf.-, near tkr .larket, in Gern *niown.
. Orders for Insurance, left at the l'.iuth <all e r_
'' ner of Arch and Sixth flieets, will be <?uly fr r
re v-ardetL aiii;y>t ;
Kj" ihe Poft-Office will mov
ln ed on Monday the 'l3th instant, ar one o'tDor!:
n " f, M. to the North-Mi of Market-flreet, the
he firft hoiife W'efl t>f Eleventh-flreet, w here Mer
-1 I chants and others ar<; requ<-fled to fend for their
n <r letters ;as tht Letter-carrieri will be Hopped
carrying letters out, after that time.
|n Post Office, Philadelphia, TT.
cy Removal —Walter Franklin
has removed to the house of Mr. William For -c«,
in Gennantotvn, where the bufir.efs of his clr.ce
jiiill be tranfaded during the continuance »f A.e
prefept epidemic. ,
august 10 2&wjw
ccj=- The Office of the Colleger
ays of this Port is removed to Hall, wl ere
4 the Ciittom-Iloufe bulincfs is now trauladlid.
10 augult 'T.
29 Public Offices of the Unitedotates.
6 THE 18*erat0 Rices of thcD«paftmeni»of.l rta
fury, s'ate. War, and the Navy, are reruoVed to
4 Tr»nfon l» at'gnst 16
■on- The Office ot the Committee,
1 by
Appointed to fuperinterd th« liuildliig ef tha
Frigate to be loaned to thetJm'ed States, i« rrmo
'cen ved to No. in Spruce Arret—of which th<?Tc f>
tiemon. who have nor already enme forward wiih
»° f their fubferiptions willpleaU to title 1 mice.
:ock * ROBERT RITCHIE, See'ry.
august 7 .
'£s- h anted —Alituation in aPub
o 1 lie or Merchants office, or to go as Supercar
l*y a peifon regularly brou/lit up 10 the Mis*
antile and lufuranCe bufmefs in London, lie ha»
late'y been a voyage trpm hence to thr We:l-lit*
dies as Supercargo, can be well reeom . 6idid»
and —Please to enquire at the Prinf r's.
hich augull 11 4 m ,Lands for fa!c bv private Contra&>
Propafals will he rn tivrd, by the lutvcritief,
until the firft day of September. n j xr, for the
purchase of any cis the following very valuable
tradU of land with tlu:r improvements.
In the -Sfntc ©f New-York,
No. i. Two lots of ground situate in the
county of Albany in the town called Lanfing
burgh, and difiinguiflfied or known on a map of
said town by the names i>f No. 71 and 71.
2. Two tradts of land fituat'e in the town of
WeO-Chefter, the one of them near Oliver De
lancy's, John Cox's and John Palmer's land, ad
joining Brouhs River, the othsr of them near
Devilard's fnufl" mill, Delancy's land and ad
joining Brouh'sriver the whole combining about
84 acres.
3. A trafl of land fitiiate in the county of
West-Chester, rn the road from Kmus-Sftdge
toDelzncy's Mills containing about 66-5 acres.
4 A trafi of land situate in Montgomery
ounty, being apart of the trafl rslied Jeffiip's
nrchjfe and knoWn and diftingutlhed in a divi
on of the laid purchase into townfliips by being
art of township No. 4. beginning at the 8 IV.
ounis of fai l ptirch tfe anil at the lo'ttherly cor
ner of laid township containing by cltirnation
about jii J aces.
5. A tra T of land situate in the county of
Montgomery, tifcrei'a'd, being also a part of
Jeffup's purehaie ar.d known and diftingtiifhed
in divifionof the fa id purchase into rownfhips,
by being pirt of township No. ji beginning at
VV.bounds of fail' townfliipat thediftince of
361 chains aid 50 links from the m.iftfouthc'ly
Corner thrreof. 1
(1. A trafl of lav 1 Ornate in U'fler county.
hei..g pa' ; of fl'e trjfl of laid I nown by the
name of th- Grstat ir Hardenbtaghs parent,con
taining about 6000 acres.
7. A tra<st of land fitua'e in the county of
UJ.'ler aforefaid on the, N. E. fide of the river
Delaware, being also a par; of the land t. rmer
y granted to Johannes Hardenburgh ar.d others
commonly known by the name of the Green
patent i: being a part of a great lot No. 1. at
the general pa; titic n of said patent which came
to the (hare of lii ma-. Newhatn one of :he
proprietors, and is know* and diilmguifhed 011
the m?.l-> of the sub.division thereof made by.
Charles Webb, fu* eyor in the year by (
lot No. 60 ; this land runs some di.'i.ir.ee on the
river Delaware contains abont 3 57 acres
8. A trail of Ivndjnthe county of" Uiflir a
fore/aid in tbefuvUi tier of lots in the Harden
fiurgh patent being the lot No. 12, containing
about 17/150 acres excepting there»ut 3xo acres
fn:rctnjore graftl by Robert R. Livnigfton to
Nathan'.;! Sachel.
9. A of land situate in the county of Ul
fin , beginning on the Papekunk river, and ad
to ning tiie 14th monument in the general divi-
COll of the Hardenburgh patent, containing,
about .",300 acres.
10 equal undivided seventh pacts of two
iVwral parcels cf laritU filuate in the townftiips
4 f Chemung in the cot.nty cf Tioga on the S.
U\ fide of Tioga river, the fame being part of
>< trait of jboiti 2c,000 acres, these two seventh;
ci main about 5763 acres,
1 ;. Or.v equal and Undivided seventh part of
the fviii 70.000 acre trail in Tioga county being
jiibont acrts.
1;. One equal ind undivided seventh part of
f 5 2?,c00 :'cre tract in Tioga,county being al
l'o a'juut 5.886 ajCri s.
In the State of Maryland.
33. A t'a& of land .now called Bayley's pur
-1 chaVift Vr'm--e George's county, near to a buy
tr ct'vi- called, A«acoliincove,containing about
l\. tS -:c"i;.s.of prime Uiiid.
\1 1. ri. 1.-xil of land Called Fortune Enlarged.
a-ti\j j -f of z trait called Bead's adventure enl
1., v both lying in Prince Georgn'sconnty on
tli,\ ~':cr.i bunch of the Potoroack, con.aining
ain; t .16 acres.
1 -1 A of land with the houfc and im
provrtaent called Arcn, lying on the eaftcrra
bran.-b 0! the river Potomatk, oppofue to the
city of Waftiingfen it: Prince George's county
(.OiitJiuing about ,75 acres.
16. A trait of land wtih the houses, mifh,
other iiuijdit)gs and improvements lying near
Fort Cumberland in the county or Washington
about 1088 acres.
17. A trail of land situate in the county of
Was. adjoining to Tol-t Cumberland, I
coiit'.li:;n;< 4£C seres or the:rabouts.
. ig. One undivided atpiety of a trait of land
in Alleginy county, called spruce faring, the
•thole of whic"h contains about no acres, also
one undivided moiety #f 33* trails or lots of
ground, each of which contains about 50 acres,
aji J are numbered from 500 to 799 inclnlive,
o : tuaig and excepting three lots which are clif
tinguifl ed by the numbdrs 661, 661 and 684 ali
which '.aid lands ad join.
In the State of Virginia-
A trsi) of Meadow la d with eonliderablt
tmprcvements, lying on Hunter's creek,Dorrell's
crixk, Mucdy creek and the river Fotomack ;
and anjinnini; t'necitycf Alexandria containing
by patent i9j atres.
Edward Fox, au&ioneer.
PbiUztifhhi, Jum sib, 1758. 2aw
advertisement.
Wi'.r.RE VS David and Joitti Graham, late
of the city of Philadelphia, merchants,
iiiive a!Ti t .ned over all their tffeils, real a«d per
sonal, to tiie fubferibers, tor the benefit of their
creditors—
Notice is hereby given,
To all in rfotw who aije indebted to said ellate,
that they are required to make hnoicdiate payment
ei their refpeillve debts to the affigncts at their of
fice No. 6a Dods-ftrctt In failure whereof,legal
m. afures v/illbe taken for the recovery of fnch as
arr nor immediately cifcharged.
SJMON WALKER, ACigncesof
CHAItMiS GILv'HRIST, y David & John
GEOR.GK HUMPH«.£Y3,3 Gsauam.
julv 7. tf b.'k-. ifep.
Samuel Richardet,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that for
their accotamouaticn, a mcfleng«r, with a 1< t
-ter i ag, will leave hlshoufeat half paft'ten o'clock,
for Philadelphia. Any gentleman giving orders
at the poft-otficcfor ii.s letters to be put in Kichar
dit's tag, may receive them in German town by
one o'clock in the afternoon.
Germantown, auguit 16 3 C
FOR SALE.
A THREE Story Briek House, on the north
fide of spruce fiteet near Second-flreet,
idjoining the wail of Mr. Jones's garden and
fpi occupied by Daviii I^t liq 1 his
house is in compltit repair with back buildings,
ponfifting of a Piazza, Kitchen and ahindfome
Dinipg Kootn over the Kitchen.
As any Perf.ui inclined to purchase will view
thj; premiff»)a»J»°re particulai description iscon
fuli red onnecellary. ..
The termsot payment will beotie tl trdcaOi,
on? third in 6 mouths and the remainder in 11
months Withiitterett. For turUicr information,
i.nquirt of JOHN CR 4iC,
A'o. IS DiCk-jhect.
may 16 $
PROPQSALS,
BY TH*
Inference Company of North America.
For Imsukancs ngaihft Fins, 011 Dwelling-
Hov.fes, Vi are-Motifes, and other Dnildings (and
on Goods enntninrd in such Buildingi) diltant irom
Philodelr hia, in the United States.
I. Common lufnrances, on hazards t>', the firjl
class, will he undnrtakrii at a premium of ahout
halt per cent, per annum. For extra hazardous
rifqoes a larger prcr. i*m T/ii! be required, which
will vaty according ts circu\i(lanccs, feidom ex
ceeding one per cent, per annum ; butin fosie in
llances, where file property infurcd is not only in
itf.-lf extra hszardotis, feut rendered Hill more so
by the vicinity of extra hazardous building 1 , am!
occupations, rhe premium demanded will be raised
according tocircu-nftances.
Houses >-. nd Ware- Houfcs, the walls arid pcrti
tions of which arc w holly of stone or brick, well
condruiled, so as to bguarded as well as may he
againO fires from wirhin, and tree from extra ha
zardous buildings and "cccnpations ; n their neigh
borhood, will be deemed hazardous of the iirft
cla-ls, and may he infurcd te thcirfull value.
Also Goods and Merchandize, rot e' an extra
hazardous kind, in calks, hales, or packages, de
pofitcd in fu:h buildings, to an amount not ex
cceding 4000 dollars ; if more than thisfum
is required to be mfured in one tenement, an addi
tional premium will be required, in proportion to
circumlfances.
11. 'rfurances will also be made on builditigsand
goods extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to th« risque. But it is "■ 'it e.afy to arrange thefi?
under particular headt.or claffcs,.fo~as to deferibe
each withfhe ueccl&ry accuracy. Each (9ifi muit
therefore he decided upon according tu the circum
itanccsaitfnding it j and- these circunulance's wili,
in general, appear/r'.m the description accompa
nying t^eappticatipn
Biijldirgs partly conflruilcd of ftriclt or flone,
ire preferable to.those wholly wooder. Anj) in
both cases, the (tile of building, U»w they are oc
cupied, how they ate fitustecl, the neighboring
buildings, andhow occupied, are oonfidtratiot.s to
be taken into view. Arid with reflect t»goods,
their t'endsncy, whether from their !r..t«re, or
fror.i the manner in which they are exported, e tber
to corn tienrc or to incr jsfe an accidentil fire, and
I their iiabdity in suCh : (late to receive damage by
wet, orliy sudden and bally rcnwiyaj, or to be Ko- 1
len in time of cwfufipn and hurrv, are all cir
cumftsnces of ;..and the premiums must be
proporiioned nceordinj^y.
111. The following conditions are to be under
stood t y the parties.
rft. The InTurance is n',t binelii.g rill the fliyu
lated premiuru be r.iid ; but it fiiail fie dcem;d ef
feclusi! from the t,ime of ft'th payment and accep
•ance thereof, whether the policy be immediately !
signed or not.
ad. Infurancss haay be renewed at the expira
tion of the term of the policy, witheo: further ex
per.fe* than the payment of the premium of the r -
newed term, the circumflancescontinuing the fame ■
as they were Hnderftood by the'lnfurt rs at:he time |
theisrmer insurance was made ; out the payment ,
of the premium is efn'tial to fueh rcbewal ; ami
if the party insured fullers any titne to elapse after
the expiration of the former
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not iufured
during such time ; nor cati the insurance be renew
ed 011 the former policy Imt by computing the
commencement of the renewal from the expiration
of the former inlurance. The liibjcdl of insur
ance may be op:n to treaty for a new
WnrancC.
3d. If any other i: fursnce be madeon the fame
property ; itntufl be mace- known *t t!tc time of
application, othejwife the policy made on such ap
plication wiil be void.
4th Goods held in trul, or on coufignment,
way he infursd as fcch in a separate policy ; 'but
they are not t» b; conpdered =s infurcd itherwife.
5 th. This company will'not be liable or accoun
table for any loss or damage occafiqned by any 'or
elgn invafton, or by j::v military or ufsrped fofec
or by I'eafon of any civil commotion ; oroccafion,
ed by gunpowdi r. aquafortis or other thing of tli
hke Rind kept in the budding, or amongfl the pro
perty insured.
6th. fiilis of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu
rities, Title De. ds. Mouey, Bmk and other pro
mifiary Notes, are not included in any insurance ;
nor are paintings, medali, jewels, gems, antique
curiafities, or mirrors exceeding; the value of twen
ty-live dollarseach, to be co'lfidtr. das inCured una
lef's particularly mentioned and by Ipecialagiee
mcnt.
;th. No insurance will he made forafcorter
term than one year, nor for a lorger term thin fe
vew years. Perfocs choosing to inftire for seven
ytfirs ihail be allowed one year's premium by way
of difeount: One third ol a years premium (hall
be abated in like manner on an infuriace f->r
three >ear«.
Sth. Lolfes sustained by fire on property infureA,
(hall l»e paid in thirty days after due pro <f and li
quidation thereof, without deduiiioti.
A defeiiption of the property to be infurod will
be exp it-eJ with each application, to be made by
amafttr carpenter and figned 1 by him, as Well as
by the owner of the building 01 applicant f(Sr in- !
furat.ee, and attefled before a Notary or principal •
J/lagiflrate, who will corttly his knowledge of the
parties and their credibility.
With refpeit to Houses and other Buildings
ift. The site and polition ; describing the !
ftrecc or road on or near which the building ;
liands ; its contiguity to water, and other cir- |
cumfta nccs relative to the extmguifhment of fire
in cafe of accident; and particu'aily whether
any and what fire companies are eftabl lhed, afntl
engines provided, in the place or neighbourhood.
id. The materials of which it is built, whe
ther of briek, flone or wood, and what part of
each, as well as to the outside walls as i-ifide or 1
partition w alls, and their refpcilive height and
thickm-.s ; the flyle i>f the roof and of what
materials; bowfitcured by battlenmnts or par
ty walls j what kind of access to the top of the 1
houfe.a'-d to the chimnies ; whether any and '
what eleflric rods ; the number and kind of !
fire places ; and the ktpd of depolit for ashes.
3d. Ihe dimensions of the building and how j
divided, and the flyle in which it Is finifhed so j
as to enable indifferent persons to judge in what
rpanner it is to be r-paired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury; the and condition of the building,
and hew occupied, whether merely as a dwel- 1
ling house, or for any other, and for what pur- |
pose , also an eAiinate ot the value of the house J
or building iridepenth lit of the ground.
4 th. Tt'.e lituatiori with refpedt to other build- j
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or j
not, comprehending at least one hundred sett
each way : what kind of buildings are within .
that built, of what materials, and
how occupied or improved, whetlier as dwel
lings for priy»te families or otherwise : whe
ther any and what trade or manufactory is car
ried 011, and particularly whether there be any
extra hazardous articles tiled, or ufuiily depo
sited in the house, or within the dtflancc afore
faid, aid of what kind.
Refpeiliuggoods in Houses, Warehoufcs, &c.
1. A encial description of the building if,
which ttiey are kept will be expelled, similar in
all refpedls a' to the danger trom lire, with that
required for Insurance 011 the buildings them
selves
1. A description of the kinds and nature of
the goods, whether in calks or ot-her packages,
or opened ; and whether displayed in whole
pieces tf id the uliul form for refilling. And
if the goods caiy materially in kind, a general
elliuMte of value of e-ach kind proooled to
be infused ; but in the lafJ -particular STiinute- |
ness bf tlefcriptipu is not expected.
3. Articles of the fallowing; kind'arc deetn
>ed cViri Haiarrtous, thoVpl» in varn ins dej;rt<S;
in whatever building ihey «ny be plareti, vi/.
pis h, tar, torj)e*itii«-, tnW, wax, tillow, ml,
inflantßMi>!e<piri!s, fnlphtir, t.rmp,flix, cotton,
dry goodi of a,ti inflammable Vhtd ©petted. —»
GMfs, china wire or porcelain, efpeciallv un
packed; Looking glairis, jcwclei t ; and alio
ther articles more than com•*«)»)? inflarornablc,
or o-ore than commonly liaMe to injury by sud
den removal of by mmflures. or" particularly
obnoxious t» theft on an alarm of fire.
Letters psft paid, dire<fie<l to the Sec; ttai y of
the Board of DireSlors, will be duly attended
to. fin orderlor Insurance accompa::ied by tl'.e
means of paving the premium, will be imme
diately executed on the premium being paid. If
'tke appiica:ioiy contain an enquiry only, it will
be answered.
He order of the Board,
HvVZ VRn, Secry.
Office of fjfc»lnfuraiH - <i Company-»/" Norti ?
America ; Philad. Feb. 1, 1798. , )
Feb. I ain tf
'James C. & Saml. IV. f ijher,
No. 13 An ch-Ntr ce r,
Ha ve Joe Sale
203 Casks belt refined Salt Pet re
Bed London Window Cilafs from 10 by 8 to
t - by rp
Ditto Glals Ware in Caflts affirteil cjnSding
of pint "and h?.!f-pint Tumblers, Wine
o»a(Tfi, &c.
A L J' o,
A few Balesof Rec-1, VVhite 3nd Yellow Flan
nels, Bwzm and Kendall Cottons.
June : 7 .yi'vt^
Patent Ploughs,
'| r O he fold for cash by Joseph Salter at Atfipn
-E- Richard V» ejls, Co.ipei \ Ferry—Jonathan
Hzrker, Woodbury —and Jeffe Evans, Lumber
ton , Those who have nfed them give them the
preference to any other '.ind, as tfcey require
less team, break tile ground better are kept in
order at less e-xpence and art-f id at a cheaper
rate —the plan is much limplified and confiUs of
but one 'icie ot call iron, with theChantlks and
"beam of wood j they .may belixed with wrought
lays 'U ■ cooilers to be put on with f.ve*fc and
taken ctC at pltafure
1' tent lights frtr cendins wiihiitftrsiftions for
making them may be had by apply ing to John
Newboid, or the fubferiber No. a;j !,'oith
Fcont-ilrcet.
Who has for Sale;
Or to Lease for a term of Tears,
A (lumber o. valuable tra&s of Land, well
i ntiiated i»r Mill.*, Iron A'orksor Farms, mod
j 'y improved, lying chif fly in the county ot Hun
j tingrti-n hate of Fennfylvtriia. Those who may
incline to view tliem will please to apply to
: John Catun fcfq. near Huntingdon.
Charles Newlold,
j'dy '■ ? ;awtf
M -ils, Portage, &c.
TO BE LEASED FOR A TERM OF TEARS,
r T Obe leafed, for a term not lefo than three,
1 cor more than fev?n years/ a VALUABLE
PROPERTY at the Sene^a-fa!lin the county of
Ouondajjo, an ' Ilato of New-YV-rk, on the Banks
of the Seneca-river, two mi es well of the Cayuga
ferry, and cleVan miScseafi o? Geneva.
This cotifiSs of an excellent grifl
mill, saw mill, divelHng heufe, liarii, and u port
age or carrying place, with Vetween thirty and
?orty acrer, ol land, under good i a>»d
as r.Hich more in the vicinity, as maybe required
lor i u tu re -iln prove ment.
The grin i»aii w a handsome, Hew and well fin
iflie-d building, «f <o by $b feet, 3 (lories high
and lurniihed with a run of excellent Burr flones
and another Ot Efopus' ftonca, .01 the bell quality
—and, the mod approved boults, &c, calculated to
make al! the different quaiitiefi of flour ior etpor
tation or for home confuniptioi) : It is accefllbie by
wafer from every part of the Cayuga lake ahu Se
neca-river, as well as from the Seneca-lake—and
froanirs situation, commands a veryextefcfive and
encreafmg cullnm : The fir earn on which it 2 and?,
bring the outlet of the Seneca-lake, the mill cau
never be in want of water ; and as it has been kept
working during the fevcreft season of rhe last win
ter, it is not liable to beimpeded br fro f l :
The saw mill is also new, situate 011 ths fame
ftrcam, now furniftied with an ample liock of
logs, of which a fujpply may at ail times be pro
cured by land or water, of the bell quality :
The dwelling house is well calculated for the ufc
of the miller, is new, and fufficientiy lai ge : The
barn i« about 40 feet square, an I entirely new :
The percale is 3-4thsof a mile in length,
the Seneca-fail a—over which werepafid in tht.
la.l year, nearly two hundred boars with their
contcms ; this- objeil is pxodudivu of a
handsome income, which mud be incrcafing anol
permanent :
/imong the many advantages of
myft bp numbered the fertility of the'furrouhding
country —being the bfeft improved p'rr of the coun
ty cf Onondaga—the concex tra::<>u ot inter
course by land and water, the Geneflle llatet oad
p3oing it. as ivcil 4g ;rr:age to
Geneva, and :hc comities o« Ontario and Steu'u n ;
which renders it a moil eligible ftan j for a Stoie or
Tavern—The river and tik s abound in tifli and
fowl, and the couniry witli deer and o f hcr game
Besides the mills already creiled at this place, it
for any additional water works that
maybe found neceff-ry—lulling mill, balk mill
tannery, forges, &c. in ay be at a small cx
penc-j—lron ore may be brought in boats rroca the
Cayuga lake; and it is thuuglu to abound in the ?
neighborhot/d 1
The Hock on hand w'M be fold to th« h fTee, and I
the catd , utensils, smith's forge, &c. may be fold
cr let the pr^mifes.
If at urchafe should offer for the whole or an
undivided part of the preiv.ifes it will be fold.
f«r te/nu of sale or lease,. apply to mr. Wil
h elm us Mvndewse at the Seueca falls, or to the
fubfcribeiv at Schenectady.
STEPHEN N. BAYARD.
i'*ne ty t*wim
Federal Mills,
ADJOINING Georgetown, a:,d the Ci:y of
WaHiinjrton, will be offered at Public Sale,
on the loth day ot er next, at the Union
Tavern, if not previously f >ld at Private sale
1 h de mills in point of situation for bafincfsand
na ural advantages are generally admitted to be
equal to any in America. The Merchant Mill is
a large brick houfe r eighty feet by fifty, ajmoft
new, in which are eredted four pair of Burr mill
ftonss with elevitor-, hopperboys and bolting
cloths, comph tely finiftiei aad conflrudcd in such
a manner that tKfe whole of the niilin may manti
faAure flour at the. fame time. The country mill
which is ere&ea near the other, is entirely new,
a firong (lone building, containing one pair of
ft ones, and built iu such a manner that the second
pair rna£ be put up with little expence. This mill
is conveniently funlhtd, and calculated to carry on
extensively, country work, of which it getg a con
ilant fu.pply. There is to the said mills
if) acrts of land, the whole of which will be
fold wiih the mills.
One third of the purchase money will be requir
ed in sixty days from -he day of sale, and Ia- the
balance a liucial credit will be given. Fuitlwr
particulars will be mad known or the d?y of file.
v JOSEPH E. ROWLES,
Surviving partner of
JOSEPH E. ROWLEs tf Co.
Georgetown/juiy ij..' aj—3awts
AN ACT
For itv relief of ths Refugees front the British
f:ov:t:ces of Cant.ia and Neva-Scotia.
g fc r 13.5/ V tnaSid by tbe'Senate ahd fioufe
a) of I vii of the United
States of .imericfl, in ''JJc nblrd, 1 hat
tu iai* •>ty ihe clfiins of ccrutn prrJi-ns claiming
i lamls mr.irr the refoluti.ons t Ci qj»r*fn, of the
twenty-thirdof April, one thnuiaid seven hun
dred and eighty-three, ;nd the thirteenth of
, April, one thou land seven hundied and citihty
f:vc, as refugees from theHri'.iih provinces of
Canada and the Secretary for the
Depaittnent of War, tie, and is hereby autho
f lized and (iirwftcd to gijri' notice in one or more
| i!t th< public papers of each of the States of
Vermont, Mafl'.cluifctts, New-York, New-
Hampfliiie antj IV'iinfjlvsnia, to all persons hav
ii>K chiifii, under 'he fiitl refoliitiuvs, to tranf
j in it to the War-oflico, within two ye:rs liter
ihe p,?f!i.-.-g of, fhi»«dt, a jifft t>ud true account
of ihtir claims 'i\iUe bounty of Cmryrcl's.
Sec a. find be it further, enaHed, That no
uther persons lhal. he entitled to the benefit of the
piovifionsot this a£f, than th.>le ..f tlit fallow
ing (Jefcriptiwns, or their widows and heirs, viz.
" Firrt, thole he.ids of families, and (ingle per
sons, not members of ar.yfuch families, who
were rtfiden:s in one of the provinces ifoMf.ud,
prior to the fourth day of July, one Umiifand
(even hundred and feventy-lix, and who ahan
i (ioned their lettlemeiits, i.i CQjiieq-ience of hav
ing given aid to the United Colonies or St2tes,
f ni the revolutionary War ajraiatl Great B.itiin,
or with intention to give IVi h aid, and continu
ed in the United States, or in their service, dur
ing the said war, and d ; tl not return to reftrle in
• the diimiiiioti« of the king of Great-Britain,
prior to the twapiv-lif'.h ot November, one
th iiifjiid seven hunJ'ed and etgiifj'-thrie.e. Se
contlly, die widows and heirs of all fiich per-
I'jns us were adual residents, as as irtftid, who
abandoned their Settlements, as aforelaid, and
died within theUniied Stales, or in their lVr
»ice during the said war : aiidthhdly, all per
foqs who were rnemlje.-s of iamjlit 6 at the time
of their coming into the United States, and who
during the war, entered into; their lervice.
Sec. .t. And be it further mailed, That the I
proof (■( the leveral circumftauces necessa r y to
entiilc the applicants to the befisOts of this sfl,
may ht (alien before a judge of the ftipreme or
riiftriiSl coujt cf the United States, or a judpe
of the fu; remeVr fuprr:or\ om t, or the firft jus
ti£c or f.jlt j ulgciol ot common picas
or county con: t of anv State.
Sec. 4. /Ind be it further rnnffrd, That at
the expiration of si teen month* from and after
tie pailing of thi-a a<ft, and from lime to lime
thsreafrer, it !ha!! be the duty of the Secretary
for the Department of War, to lay fuih evi
dence of claims as he may have received, before
the .Secretary and Comptroller of the Trrafury,
and with them, proceed to examine the testi
mony, and give their judgment whit quantity
of land ought to 1m- allowed to the individual
claimants, in proportion to the degree of their
refpeilive services, facrifices ind ftifferinp», in |
confequecce of their attachment ta the cause of
the United States ; allowing to thole of the firll
class a qnahtitynotexcttiijngone thoufandacres ;
and to the lau.tlals, a quantity not exceeding
one hundred, making such intermediate clalTes
as the refolutior.s aforefaid, and di'tributive j'rf
<ict, miv, in theif judgment require, and make
report thereof, to Congreti. And in cafe any
such claimant jhall have fuftairied such l"fi«J and
luiierings, or performed such ferviees for the
United States, that he cannot justly be claltcd
in any one gentral clafa, a separate report fh ill
t>e nude of his circumftatices, together wi'h the
quantity of land that ought to be allowed him,
having reierer.ee to the foregoing ratio : Pro
vided, that in cojifioering wtiat compenfniou
ought to be made by virtue of this a<sl, all grants
except military grants, which may have been
made by the United States, or individual States,
thai! be considered it the jult value thereof, at
the t meihe fame wete made, rcfpeifliveiy, ei
ther in whole or in part, a» the cile may be, a
latisfadlion to those who ma« have received the
lame: Provided a !fr, that no claim under this
law, (hatl be alJigiialile until after report made
to Coagrefs, as afortfaid, and until the said
lands be granted to the person* untitled to the
benefit of this adl.
Sec. j. Beit further emtfied, That ilLcbtims
in virtue of laid rt'olutKius of Congress,, which
(hall not bp exhibited as afortfaid, within the
time by this adt limited, fliall forever ti:er«o.fter
be barred.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the iloufe of Reprefentativei
TH : JEKFERSON,
Vice-President of the United States,
and PrefidtHt of the Senate,.
Approved, y, 1798.
JOHN ADAMS,
Prejidsnt of the United States.
Depolited among the Uolls m the office of the
Department of State,
Timothy Pickbrins!,
Secretary of State.
c 3* Pnrfuavt to the above AS, No
tice is hereby given to all perflms hav
ing claims under the resolutions of Con
greis, of the 23d of April, i7B3,»anJ
the 13th of April, 1785, to tranlmitto
the War-Office within two years after
the passing of the said Ait, m?. the 7th
j day of April, 1798, a just and true ac
| count of tljjiir claims to the bounty of
Congress.
In the proof of CLims, a ftrift atten
tion must be paid to the requiiitibns of
the 2d and 3d Sedlions of the A tit
JAMES M'HENRY,
Secretary of IVdr.
jtilv T<) jawAw
LANDING,
At South Street wharf, the* cargo ol rhe fbip Con-»
ncclicut, iroQi Batavia—
About 300 tons of Java Coffee,
of the £iowth of afM 1795
60 tons of Java Sugar,
In canniftcrs—for fa!e by
PETZK BLIGHT,
WHO ALSO OFFSR« rn* IALt,
IJO liMs, choice Jamaica ciug.ira
JtßKrcarum is hhd*
Brandy Ift and 4th in pipes, lihds.
and quarter calki
Maikira ill ptp<23
Old Batavia Au'acV
iuly 1 <s |
This Day is Fubliihed,
AND FOR SALE BY J FKNNO, ! iO,CH!SNU T-S* 1
AN ADDRESS
To the People of Maryland,
ON the origin, progref? and pref h: fticc 01' !
French ajjgrcilioa, with a &ctch ct th? inf.irooui '
attcmpti to degrade the Government 0! the Ualied
Stated,and
in Conjiivis; written the la(l «.f Ajiril in the nrc
feutyvsv, by a Meuibef of tbt iloul: cf ticfreLn
tativei. j jantJl
HAPPY DISCOVERT.
A certain Cure fur that alarming qnd-dreadful X)ifci.br r
The Yellow Fever,
Aswell'as ,in\> otbet domrrrous putrid Jroet, ftrj r c*jl
ague, and ither inveterate and implicateddfcaf.s\ ty
the nfe cf the
POUDRE UNK^UE,
WELL known and patented in England, France,
Poland, and all the capital cities in Europe,'
where the mod aftoniftiing cure* have been effect-.
led on persons judged i*c*rahle by all phyficiant.
In a Treatif? printed in London, on the properties
of thi- powder, by T. Seymour, M. D lateChc-'
mifl to bis'Majefly, there are stated two hundred
cases, where this moll valuable remedy has
infallible, in all kind of fevers, bloody fuie %
invernie / l>euviatifms % sciatica, apoplexy, pat alyjie, yd-.
low jaundice, ringworm, wot vii it children a*d in grown
fitrftMs, 'zuliter, chronical bead and flovtscb aches, btpa
tick and vephreticalor f.one cholic, the lings evil, fcurvm
and the pc/? inveterate and complicated venereal disease. It
is the heft preparative for thfc small pox
andiweafles: ot the greatest utility, for young a*
well at for elder ladies at the critical epoch of their
| life. \ Ik* t fii acy of this powder in laveral of the
• above tlifczies has been diicovered by chance, and
; so it has been in the yellow fever last year, by Mr,
Mahy, who cured fevera! by adminiftcriiij* only
tivo of the laid pwien, and loft not a single pa
tient which he undertook to cure, as proved and
attci>ed by the here annexed certificates, whose ori*
jjinal may be lcen at Andrew liadfegs umbrella fi>op %
No. f3 r, corner of Chef out arid Fourth jlreets, the on
ly place trh r*. these powders are to ha had, with
proper directions for the useoort r them.—Price tw»
dollars.
The ufefulnefs and certainty of thu remedy be
iii<3T so j/reat for so many dangerous disorders, aay
I'crf >n wllhing to he provided with thofc powder v
will pjcafe to apply very soon, as the qu uUUy at
hand is rot very large, and it i>doubclul ii for a
lon£ time, or if evr any.other genuine wu| he im
por-e-J, the secret remaining only in the hands of
thcinventor, in Europe, and never being commu
nicated to, or difcuvered by any orhsr perl'on.
W> Bln the yellow and putrid fevers, pow
der tnuft be taken thtf or at l>afl the third
clay.
We the fubferibers, daring the late (icknefs in
: this city, having taken thr yetloif fever, applied to
Mr. K'lahy for his medical alii fiance, wc do here
by certi'y, that by a certain powder, calcd the
Poadre Uhijue, we ware pe: Lilly recovered from
j i?ie said (atll ficltoefs, and lrom an experience of
I the happy fcfFetfttj of the above moll valuable raedU
<-iM«. cohiider it ouiMu'ry ro m >ke the fame kswwu,
■ for the benefit of cur fellow cit:£eo«»
Margaret Joncf,
Mylus O'Connor,
je.Tc Turner,
Ctiriften Rebecca Do\V,
Catherin Apple,
Ann Grovtr,
William B;H»,
I>avi 1 Williams, carpenter,
William T Donaldfon, mall-maker.
Mr. Wahy's well known Plainer, for all kind of
; wounds ftnd fores, to be had at the above direc
; tion, No. 131» Cacfmut Greet.
| ""r ?• aawtf
DEBER i iiD,
on board the Ship of wat Delaware, ly-
J inj{ in Nantalket Roail, Joseph Tortar, 5 feet
10 inches high, agccl i 3, burn at Concord, Chef
tercnm:ty, fttte of Peiinfylvania, sandy hair and
complexion.
Win. Moon, age! 15, 5 feet 10 inches high,
red hair and red complexion, horn in Philadelphia
—chc only cloiths taken with him is - a suit of ma
rine cloathiug.
Whoever apprehend* the said d.-fertcrs, (hall re
ceive ten dollar* for each, by applying to
W. W. BURROWS,
Major of the Marine Corps.
Wants Employment,
A YOUNG MAN, who has served a regu
lar apprcnticefhip to the mercantile
nefi in f his city, wiflies to engage in a Couuting
ho«fe or oflic#, writes a good liaixl and uuder
ftands accounts, can be well recommended and
lecurity given if required. Enquire at the
oilice of this Gazotte.
June 2i .lawtf
General Poft-v3fEce,
PROPOSALS for canying the mails of the
United States on the following routes will
-be received at this office until the lotk day of
"Septeniber next inciuGve.
1. From Pitifburg P. by Cannonfburg, Wafh
ingtoni Wtft-Lihejty, Wheeling and VVilli
town to Califs at the mouth of Licking-crtefc,
<mi t'«e Mulitifignm, cflimatcd 140 miles.
Leave Piitlburg every I'rjdav at 2 l- M. and
ariive at Zancs the next Monday by 3 r. M.
faturnipg—'Ltave Zjiu-s every TusfiUv at $
A. M. and arrive at Pittfburg the next l J ri lay by
1 O A; M.
2. From Zancs. at the mouth of Licking
Creek on the Mufkingum, by Chilicothe and
Mafi'cy't to Mayfville in Kentucky ; cllimated
140 miles.
• Leave Zines e?ery Tuesday at 5 a. m. and
arrive at M .yfviUt tTie next-Ffidav by to A. M.
Returning—Leave Meyfvi I every Friday by
2 p. m. and arrive at Zanesthe'r.ext Motttlay b/
I'lie carriage of the mails tocnlWnence qii the
firfl dav of November nt*t anrt rontinutf imtil
tbe firft day of o£t >ber ißao. Pay;nenu wiU
be njade quarterly.
The usual penalties for d.-lavs and failures will
be flipulated in the contracfl.
Joseph Habcrjhnm,
Pofl'My/li'r General*
Tuly 1 m&fhAw
I'ISALTtJ OJWCE~
Phi'adt'puia, *fl Afay. 179"*
of an aA to'alter and the Healrh
Laws of this Gouimonweaith, passed 41b April
1798.
SevSl S- A 11 ur;^-cr ena^ tbe au»
x \ tuvirity alorc aid. That every houi<v
Iteeper v/ithin t. k ef PiuLdelpbiaj the town*
(hips of the Norchjfci Liberties and Mfoyiin'• nfir
and diftridl of within a mil? of the li
mits of the city, Uking in boarders arrivi/g by !ca
or by Jpfld, l'rQtnany 1/ /eign po. tor plaet :.»id
vingany hoarder inlu*o.r her lamiiy, whofliall 1 c
takeu ftek n any dil-.-aic what foe ver, between the
nrdilayof May and the firffc day c/f November ia
any year, wirhin twenty Jays next aft»»r fut hboir
der fuall Cone ro loJjft iu hi* or her house, (liali
within 24 hour# next after the knowledge of iuch
lickncf.*. nuke report at ihe Health-Office of th©
name »>1 such lick per lot-, the time of his or her ar
rival at die houie «itui c! his or her being taken sick*
and of the name and p'rcc *ii abode of filch bouse*
k- •*[> t\ whervupon the I'hyiiciaL ol the Health-
OCice ihad forthwith v:li.r tju* patient,
tu tlic oftce his oplniou cf the mature of luch dis
ease. 'hat iitcafures may be taken to prev 111 the
iprcadiug of tl.e inicJ3ion ; and if any ncuiekftpor
lha.t ncgU wl to give information '»•» the manner jhd
within the time aforcfaid, and fhallhe thereof con*
'/ivJ;e«3, in ar.y court of criminal )t.risru6lio:i wits in
:hi> Ce-.cncnwcslfh uper.indiwlme: tby
>r c«»;.ul!ion, he Or flie ll.all forfeit and pay a
».o tlictjfe.ot "he faid'hofpital,not w f» twenty
nor more than cm. rurrdred dollxr«, tob»-
imoofvd at :he difcrelio't of the co.irt, acct fdin*j to
she citcumite.ncu *or on
ten each p;uticular cafe.
iiy v»»vcr cf the Board of I !e-lth,
1