A>,D Philadelphia Daily Advertiser,
Z>y John Ward Fen no, N°* iio Che [nut Street.
%OH9M* #9*3-3 PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 3, 1795. XIV. .
far SALE or CHARTER,
THE SHIP 1
MOLLY, -w
Burthen 41CO barrels of Flour,
Philadelphia built, well found
fitted, and may be ready tw£
to receive a cargo in a few daye —(he '» pierced up
13 gun», and rtiounts 12 new fix pounders, with hoc
feuir-Wmi "hi proportion. 1
*n«*« « ■ ftar
THE SHIP dai
DIANA, |>v
Burthen 1,100 barrels of Flour,
Philadelphia built of live oak thg
?£i2!S£&riX-'and cadar, i» pierced for four- jft{
giwis, end mounts ten new four poundett, can
With small arms in proportions 1
ten
THE BRIG
Jmfei AMAZON, J
Burthen 1,300 barrels of Flour,
Sirw» New-£pgUnd built, has lately
Ue'n completely fitted, aud may be ready for fca
"tn a tew days. f~
For terms apply; to V.
mCKLIh y GRIFFITH. as
, Who have for Sale 11
on boardfundry vejjtls at Makcvs-Hook,
ii.oocbuinels of Liverpool fine fait
1,100 bushels of coals ""J
5.86 crates ef queens waie aflorted I
7 tierces of bottled porter sn
10 barrels of cnleothard paint na
4 do. of purple brown Jo. T(
a quantity of yellow ocre in calks _ ni;
6 barrels powdered Venetian red paint ry
6 barrels mineral black '.o. cl<
15 barrels Spanish brown do. vi
35 boxes of pipes
H 01 boxes white ? HAVANA SUGARS yt
89 do. brown )
3 r |Ooll». prime cochineal
3 barrels New Orleans indigo
4 puncheons Jamaica spirits
so bales of fail canvass
379 Iheets of copper, aflorted from 43 by U4
to 60 by 48 incites
*Two tubs raised (till bottom* assorted
J6 fix pound guss 4 j feet, B(ewt each
14 do. 4 feet, icwt and 4lbft each
50 barrelj of gun powder
6 cases Manc'nefter cotton checks
3 trurik« mullins and fhiwls
14 cafe 3 mtiflinets, dimities and ginghams
18 chests coloured nankeens, rwullintets,&c.
11- trunk » printed calicoes
6 bales of white and coloured cafiimeres
1 bale of course woollens
Eoglilh nails aflorted.
Q<slober 17. fri.&fat. tf.
for Sale.
THE Sußsciidsa, intending <0 decline the
DRUG BUSINESS, offtrs For Sate, the
-whole Stock of
Drugs and Medicines, Instruments,
Tne (ht?p 11 elegant, commodious, and fuffici
«Btly known for the extensive bulincfs cone in the
-wholesale and retail line ; the situation equal to
any in the city, being at the coiner of Walnut and
Second ftrcets. The whole, or any part of the
as wilTUeffTuitthe purcbaftx.
Tha'terms may be known, by applying to t
JAMES MOORE, jujj. 1
Who has For Sale, 1
Weif calculated for the river trade—
The Peggy, about 30 tons burthen, ;
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably ,
{lout, of an easy draught ef water, riggbg in
3joQt( order.
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
Tyell, and in complete order for the lumber business.
£s* All perfoi* indebted to the late firm cl
G§ldthi*ait Isf Bald-mii, IV. B Goldtbiuait, Golu
tuvait iff Moore, of the fubfejri ! *r, are earnestly
refuelled to make speedy payment to
JAMES MOORE, jwn.
august 3 §
Ship Brokers.
This Eflablilhmcnf, commenced by the late Mr.
Samuel Smith, will he continned by
Row ts* Simmons,
WHO refpeilfully* acquaint the Merchants,
Traders, and Masters of veflVl>; that na
pair a or exertions shall be wanting to give general
.Thisbufinefs will be conduced at their
£ure, No. 107, Souih Water Street, near to the
Custom Honfe.
OjitohrTiT dtf
FprSale, or Charter,
THE DANISU BRIG
Louisa,
NOW lying at Burlington, a ve»
»v"fad filler.—For teimsappyto
JACOB SHOEMAKER.
WHO H\9 TOR lAie,
Her about 2,000 bushels of
St. Martin's Salt.
|o mo. 14th, '9B d«ot.
~~ GEORGE DAVIS,
this opportanky of in£oiming
his friend' gentrally, that so soon as the prc
'frnt fiekmTs wi'.l aimit ir, he proposes to offer for
lale, the moll exter.ilva colle&ion ctf
LAW BOOKS,
Jis.:.,{ importe4, or that was ever imported into
tie United States.—Tlic lase arrivals have brought
h m a number «T eurewuly mj f.arcc
BOOKS, ami thofn eapeAed, will greatly add to
the q'lantity ■
OAobtr 11- eodaw
* Bank of the United. States.
Philadelphia, September ai, 1798.
The public is hereby informed, that
an Office of Deposit and Difcoum will be opened
cn Monday ne*t, at the heufc lately occupied by
■Simuii. Ri«r»«a*T, near the Market House in
-GfiftpM'towki—where the lafiocft of this Inflitu*
ttcn will be tranf.fled during the continuance o.
the malignant fpye ! n>w rr«y»i!WjinPhiladelphi»;
HENRY Jfflcnt Cajhier.
REMOVALt
THE office ef the Secretary,»f the C'ommilEon
eri lor carrying into tffeS the twrnty-firft
article of the treaty ef iritndfhip, limits and itavt , t h
gation, between His Catholic Majetly and tile II- ftj
nited States of America, is,for the prcfent,rani»v
ed frorii No. 54, foiith Second llreet, to a large
two flory brick houft on the right hau'f, g»i'iß|
up the Germantown road, ufiially called Mafter#'
houfa.
Tfiole concerned are infornted that, norwith- rj
Banding the prevalence of thfcftwer inPhiladelphta, 1
daily attendance has baen, ana will continue to be J
given at the fai l office, until the return of the citi
ie-ns; & that on thu feverteench day of November w
new, the tertu of eightaen months will expire i'mce re
the day on which the comm lltioners assembled
aftet which period no complaints or applications
eaii fo/Trily be received by them ,
Letters and inclofures post-paid will beduly at- 1
tended '0 by.
' PETER LOHRA, Secretary.
Oftober xB, 1798.. § tot
To be Let, T
An airy three Story Brick House, *
ON the South fide of filbert Street, betwem
Eighth and Ninth ftrect, formerly otcupittd
as the Surveyor General's OtHee- at No. al
111, Chefnut Street. e i
augaft ro
Public Notic: is hereby (awen, "
THAT Proposals undsr f»aledcovers, will be
received on the lurhalf of the United States
until the twentieth day of O<£lober next, by Jo- _
nathaa Jackfot., £fq. at Boftcu, Ma'fachufctts,
Tench Francis, Esq. Philadelphia, Pcnnfylva-
nia, and John Swarm, Esq. at Baltimore, Ma
ryland, tor supplying the following articles of < ,
cloathinp, for the army of the United States,
viz.
FOR INFANTHY. * .
8,448 Hats, M "1
504 Serjeant Coats
504 ditto veils v
1,008 pairs do. woollen overalls e
1,008 ditto do. linen ditto 1
t 2,016 ditco shirts «
164 Mufiehns coats r
7,#80 Privates coates
7,944 ditto vests \
n "15,888 ditto woollen overall* "
15,888 ditto linen ditto '
31,776 ditto ihirts f
33)792 pairs ol Socks
33,721 pairs of (hoes
8,448 ftockstif black leather
8,448 flock c alps 1
8,448 blanket^.
FOR CAVALRY.
6 Muticir.ns coats
26 Serjeant coats f
26 ditto vefis
104 ditto shirts
>e 348 Privates coats
w 3j4 ditto vefls
1416 ditto Ihirrs )
76a pair of Leather breeches
i. 760 pair of Itock'.ngs c
ie 760 pair of boots
to 380 Stocks of black leather j
id 380 Stock clasps ' j
le 380 HVankets.
t. ift. Every article (hall be made of materials, I
equally good, and in form, or falhion, conform- I
ably to patterns far the fame, sealed with the. ]
seal of the War-Office, and which will be de- 1
pofited with the several gentlemen, empowered 1
to receive the ptopofils, as above mentioned.
y 2d. Swcrn infpe&ote (hall be appointed on
the part of the United States, to examine and '
*• deteriniee upon the several articles afortfaid,
when the faane (ball be ready for delivery, with
n > full power to rejeft every article, which (hall not
3 jy equal, in goodneii of matsrials, er to be made
in conformably to, the fcfhion of the flaodard pat
tern for the fame; and no allowance flnll be
I'S made, for any article which (kill be rejefled by
rfs. them, for the causes aforefaid.
el 3d. The proposals muftfpecify the number of
> la - articles, and their kinds, which the party is
Ny willing to furniik, together with, the lowt-H
prices for immediate payment in money, aad al
so the prices, on flic longed term, or terms of
credit.
One third of each, and rvery of the Several
kinds of the above articles, to be delivered ou
the fifteenth day of December, one third 011
the fifteenth day of January, and the remaining
third on the firit day of March next; and the
public will not-be coufidered as bound to receive
any of the aforefaid articles ofcloHhine, which
(hall not be ready for infgeiflion, and delivery,
at the periods agreed upon. <
r " 4th. Thecloathing aforefaid will be received
in the several states, at the places, and in the
proportions following, viz. Onelhird part of
si the whole at Springfield, MalTachufetts,' one
n " other third at Philadelphia, state ef Penaiylva
nia, or at Lamberton, state of New-Jersey, and
e , ir oa« third at Baltimore, Maryland.
1 e sth. No contrail will be made, for a left
j. number of each of the aforefaid articles of
cloathing, than is requisite for a company, viz.
FOR THE CAVALRY.
4 Serjeant Coats
4 ditto vests
16 ditto shirts
1 Musician Coat
58 Privats coats
59 ditto vtfts
f 136 ditto shirts
0* 63 ftoaks
63 flock clasps
126 pair of leather breeches
126 pair of boots
' n g 63 blankets
7" FOR THE INFANTRY.
for ~
70 Hats
4 Serjeant coats
4 ditto vests
8 ditto woollen overalls
& 8 ditto linen ditto
16 ditto shirts
1 Muficitns coats
¥ 64 Private coats
t.12 ditto woolen ovcaWs
, ne( j 480 pair of Socks
(,» ito pair of Shoes,
: ,n 7° Stocks,
it u . 70 Stoek Clasps,
o, 70 Blankets.
htn. JAMES M'HEN^Y,
Secretary of War.
d War Department,
11ft Scut, yq9B. J
4 " 1
1 i.
Tq be fold or Rented,
THF. fiWcrrbcfV !:om"c, No. 73., Walnut
t flrect, with a c«llai aud two ftables—Poffclfion or
I the hawfj will be giflb early in Novsmber—the 1
- flabtes and cellar i-.imedia-cly. vel
GEORGE MEAD. ao<
• Oaobrr 24, _ §tf dr<
' Canal Lottery, No. 11.
Confidetrably more than Half Drawn. haj
Draws twice a week, every Monday & Tuejtiay
for Sale, Seven Dollars each, at a'r
WILLIAM BLACKBURN'S Lottery ««
and Brokers office, No. 64 South Second-street, ' ar
_ where cheek bonks are kept for examination ;nd
registering in this, City of Washington No. 2'.
5 and Paterlon Lotteties and information where F ".
Tickets may be had Ln most of the Lotteries an- p . a '
. thoriled by law in any of the States of Ihe il
Union.
State ot thj Wheel.
One prize of 10,000 dollars 10,000
- Five 4,ctc® »0,000 i Jr
Two 3,000 4,000
Nine l,oco . 5,900 w \
Nineteen 500 9,500 s ol
II Forty-f.-ur 200 8,800 trt
d With a full proportion of the one hundred uri
*• and 6f theflftydollarpri7.es—the price of tick- wi
ets will soon rife, particularly 09 account of the m;
_ five 4,000 dollar prizes that remain inthewhesl T1
until the laftday of drawing. fp;
gjT Note, the business of a Frokstjduly at cn
e tended to in all its branch«s at the above office tr;
may 24 w&stf ha
i, ~~KAPPr DISCOVERY. he
l- A certain far that alarming and dreadful Difurtkr iai
The Yellow Fever, , ce
)r a n r 13
s ivc't as any other jjattgerovs putrid fever t fever and j r
ajritc, a>iJ other Ufvsttn-utj and complicated difeafts, bt
ti>e-vfe x if tire ' /'
POUDRE UNIQUE, 'i"
WELL known and patented inKagland,France, th
Poland, and all the capital cities in Europe, tv
where the most astonishing cure* have been effect- r;
ed on judge'd iHccrable by all phyficiant.
In a Treatise printed ih London, on the properties an
of this powder, by T. Seymour, M. D. late Cha- fit
mid to his Majeftr, there arc stated two hundred pi
cases, where this mod valuable remedy has proved
infallible, in all kind of fevers, pleurisy, Moody flux,
invcrdte tbeutnatiftrtj, fciatUa, apoplexy, paialyjte, yel~
low jaundice, ritigrvorm, wormt » children and in grov/n
perfsns, wbitet, chronical bead and Jlomach aches, bepa
tick and nephretical or flone cholic, the lings evil, scurvy
and the mojl inveterate and complicated venereal difea/i. ftt t
is likewise the befl prepajative for the fntall pox
and measles ; ol the greatefl utility for young as sJ
well as for elder ladies at the critical epoch qf their m
life. The efficacy of this powder in leveral of the th
above diseases has been dilcovered by chance, and rn
so it has been in the yellow fever lift year, by Mr.
Mahy, who cured several by adminillering only w
two of the said powders, and loft riot a single pa- r<
tient which he undertook to cure, as proved and p
attelled by the here annexed certificates, whose ori-
ginalmay be fccil at Andrew Hadfe£s umbrella fiop, vt
A'. IJf, corner of Cbefnut and FourthJiretts, the on- ai
ly place where these powders are to b« had, witji
proper dire<3 ions for the use of them.—Price Jwo
dollars.
The ufefulnefs and certainty of this remedy be
ing so great for so many dangerous disorders, any
! person wilhing to be provided with those powders,
will pleafa to apply very soon, at th± qj iatitj at
Is, hand is rot very large, and it is doubtful if for a
it- long time, or if ever any other genuine will be im
be . ported, the secret remaining only in the hands of
le- the inventor, in Europe, and never being commu
cd nicated to, or difccvered by any othar person.
N- B In the yellowand putrid fevers, thispow
on *^ er mu H be taken th« lecond., or at lsaft the third
nd dar
id, We the fubferibers, durirg the late fickaefe in .
[th this city, having taken the yellow fever, applied to 1
10t Mr. Wahy for his medical aSi (lance, we do here
lcic by certify, that by a certain powder, cal'cd the
at- Pwd'c Unique, we were perfeflly recovered from
the said fatal sickness, aud from an experience of
e the happy <tlTe<9s of the above mod valuable m .'di
'y cine, coniidar it our duty to make the fame known,
for the benefit of our fellow citizens.
. Margaret Jones,
Ji Myitis O'Connor,
Jsfie Turner,
a'" ( Chriden Rebecca Dow,
of Catheriu nipple,
Ann Grover,
:ral William Bills,
ou David Williams,, cs^peotcr,
ou William ( Donalctho, mast-maker.
'mg Mr - M»hy'» well Known Plaider, for ail kind of
the wounds and fores, to be had at the above direc
ive tion, No. 131, Cnefnut ftr#ei.
ich a "g u3t 8 lawtf
Public Notice is Hereby Given,
ired T>URSI7AN Fto the ldl of Ceßgrefs, paficd
the on the H'h day of June 1798, entitled,
0 f "an a<a refpefling Loan Office and fin»l fettle
one ment certificates, Indents *f interest, and the
va . unfunded or regiilered debt credited in the
ln j books if the Treasury."
ift. That on the application of the creditors (
left refpetJlively, or their legal attornies at any time
0 f after the taft day of December in the present
,\ z . year, the principal /'urns rf the unfunded or re
gistered debt of the United States credited on
the books of the treasury, or commissioners of
Loans will be reimbursed at the treasury of the
United States.
2d. That interest upon the unfunded or re
gistered debts aforefaid will cease from and af
ter the last day of December in the prefeot year.
3d. That the cr&ditors refpeflively will be
I entitled on requisition to receive from the pro
per officers of the treasury, certificates i-f fund
ed three per cent stock, equal to the arrearages
of Interest due on the debts aforefaid prior'to
the firft day of January, one thonfand f«ven hun
dred and ninety one. .
By order of the Board of Commissioners
of the Sinking Fund,
Edward fortes, see'ry.
John Haines Sff Win. Jones,
BEO leave toinfofm and the public,
that they have commenced a Co-ptrtnerlhip
in the SADDLING BUSINESS, which will ia
future be carried on under the firm of
HAINES Cr JONES,
. n Market street, No. 132, one door above the
corner of Fourth, —where they presume (at lraft
to h#pe) that their attention to, and knowledge in
bufinefi, thfir determination to fetve on the best
terms, and their known attachment as Native A
mericans to the Government and Canditution of
their Country, will entitle them to the encourage
ment of a generous public. Although they can
not boast of having scquired their experience in
r , any part of Europe, yet they take the liberty of
«•. pledging ihemfelves, that thotr »>onufa<ft»re (kal
be inferior to none in rhif city,
june 26, tli'.b'tf
j
—— —— ■
FOR SALE,
S A L I S B U R T.%
ALA»\G£ aad well, improved farm, contiii:-
upwards of twer.ty-fivc hurdred acres of 1 * I
vel fertile land, (.{pvarlvjbly well adapted to graf=,
and every ki:|d of.grain; tKfre art' now ope bun- vV
dred acres of Timothy meadow on it, perhaps»ot Ai
excelled, from which, 1 have cut this ir *>«fwcer qu
one hundred and eijjlijr, and two "Jot fib
hayj uywuirdj. of three u>or« et this ort
land may he coSvert'yJ iitto i«e*dow eqpal t» that , jni
already made, thu greaMC part of which mis be j ns
watered at lrrwll Pherc are t?n this
land, a cbmruodious two ftury co ,
completrly finiC»td, with ten rooms and a paling*, w j
eight of the room 3h. ve fire places; a portico in
front, fifty feet in lfiigtli, iotl eight wide; a large
paled gardM-4, well of excelleM water in the yardj
also a fecf by twenty-fix, with
(heds at arjd endv fufficieht to hold sixty
heap of black cattle™?u wellconftrucled stable, fuf- Co
ficrer.t to hold twenty horses ; with every other 2n<
(wilding that may bo convenient or ttttful for a m 3
lar™e family; vpwattit ef three hundred apple trees bo
(juli beginning to hear) of chosen grafted fruit, on
with a number of cherry, pear, quince, and damc
fon tr«es, upwards ot two thousand bearing peach
trees. Abont one fourth of the land is cleared, and
under good fence ; the I aflure lands aru well taken, ih
with red clover and other-valuable graft, Ihe re
mainder is in wooJs and generally well timbered.
The whole is well watered, having several condant
springs ; and two ftreama..runniiig thropgh di£er
ent parts thereof, on one of them is a fnUll court- *' r
try grift'milt, and a saw mill. The purchaser can ,
have immedlats po(fv!Tion, aud may be acconuno- - t:
dated with fwer.ty valuabb field negroes, with ' D
horses, black cattlfc, lheep, hogs, and every f e '
iary f.rming faliibury is situated in ex- ra<
ceiient neighbourhood, and remarkable healthy,
13 twenty-fix miles by in' afurement from Alenan
' dria, about twenty miLs from Potomack bridge at
' the Little Falls, aad uot more than twenty-five
fcocn th» njj WaibJnjton, arid on the p»ll road J
tr»m Alexandria to Winchelter. A small part of
, the parchafe money, will Se required fa hand; one, Q (
, twp, and three years credit will be giveu for the w
■ remainder. j, (
Air. Zaccheus Collins of Philadelphia will give
■ any gentlemen who apply to him an ac:ount of the j
situation of tbi* plaett. For further particulars ap- gj
' ply te the fubferiber on the premifta.
1 ~ SAMUEL LOVE.
, Virginia, Fairfax county
September 24, 1708. law- J
: ADVERTISEMENT. I
1 ir
t TTTHEREAS James Cummiko t3* Co, late ol b
I W the city of Philadelphia, merchants, have t ,
9 afTtgned over all their effects, rtal, personal and r(
r mixed, to the lubferibers, for the benefit of all v
! their creditors, who fhaU fubferibe the said aflign y
1 ment within fix months from the date hereof. j ;
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, to allperfons t |
I Who are indebted to the said estate, that they are
- required to make immediate payment of their ref
-1 pactive accounts, to the Afligoees, at their office,
• No. 62, Dock fcreet, in failure whereof adtions
, will be instituted for the recovery of such debts as "
are not discharged accordingly.
1 J' j hn Travis, J (
John Waddin%ton, I Affi t
James Taylor, f c
j, Cornelius Comegys J c
i, august iS rmwftlD t
a FOR SALE, BV
"f John Miller, Jun. i
NO. 8, OHIINUT STREET, (
k>o hogsheads RUM,
d Of high proof and fine (lavosr
j"'y '9
o For Sale,at the Stores of the Sub- :
fcribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
c 195 callts of nails alforted
" 20 bales of fail canvass, from No. Ito 8 (
'. 5 3 calks yell >tv ochre ,
1 j tierces bottled port£r, 6to 14 d»z. each ,
•• London particular 7 Mi(ielra . Win(!li
India marktt > j
Teneriffe do. in hog(head»and pip .
Old Port do. in hhds. ;
Empty Chrct hnttles I
6 cjfes of Ginghams. Dimiities, Muflineti &c. 1
afTorted for the Weft-India market
4, to, and 9 inch to coils of cordage ,
Writing fiate*, ink stands and prelfes
20 purchcoss Jamaica rum
jf 1 bale Teaming twine
c- 160 bundles (heattiing paper
Nuhlin & Griffith.
april 7 tuth&f.tf
Bengal Goods,
j CONSISTING Of 1
t [ BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS,
Chintz ColTas Maharaigungy
Chintz Guzziiias
Eliabad Baftas Wrought MuQins
Long Drawers
rs Covfe Sugarsin bags, fit. for the European markets
ALSO,
1( Carolina Indigo
e " Coffee in hogfhea '.s
>n A few pipes of very aid -r.d very ciioice Madeira
of WIWF.
*e For Sale, en reasonable terms, by
John Craig,
e ~ No. 12, Dotk-tfreet.
"• july 14 mfr9tf
ir. '
t>c NOTICE.
Bank of North America,
es dtugvft l%th, 1798.
to r "pHOSE Persons who hiv- Notes or Bills to pay
n . X at this Bank are informed,
That regular Notices will be put under a sealed
caver directed to the refpe-Sivc payer and lodged
in the Pod-Office every Monday until the return
of the citiaens.
RICHARD H ELLS, Caftit
aug. 29
SOUTHWARK.
'P oaoltr a, 1798.
T)UBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY
x GIVEN, That the Corwniflioners of
he the Diftri'a of Southwark have removed
their Hall to ufual place, comir. »ljr
in known by the tiame ot James Lille's School.
Honfe, in cotifequence «f the rapid dechse
of of the Epidemic Fefer, efpecwlly i" the
;e- vicinity thereof.
n- By order of the Hoard of Commissioner
in Wm. LINNaRD, PrtGdent.
°{ Attest,
William Pshroje, C!:rk, fn tern.
(?««' ber 9
CUSTOM HOUSE,
Ctejier, Qfti
NOTICE
To fhc MERCHANTS of Philadelphia.
, Tlw owner* and cor.Sgnees of goods by the
William Pi'iiii, Jane, KingftonJ
A rabble and other veflel* lately arrived, are rp
quefted to forward to thii Office a» soon as pof
fibJe, thrtr rrlpeflive entries and in+Mds,' m
order inrnkt-far landing miy_Lf
1 and ready' to hand them, fu fuon a* iHe rctwri;-
inj{ health of the City wilt 1 admit tht; vyt-fllrls to.
g»up. A due itrention to this notke n>ay be of
■ conveniea'-e to the mrrchinti, who probably
wiH be dt-firaos to receive their eoofh very ex
pedition fly. GEO.'LATIMEN,
■ »<* J ; Collelior.
THE Owners of Goods on board
the ship Wuliam Pesn, a'e informed that the
CbUeflor of the Cufiolns will receive such invoices
and entries as friay he forwarded to him, and will
1 make the r.eceffaij eaktt-'atiens and prepare the
• bonds so th»r permits may be granted immediataly
► on the .-.rri**! of the Clip at Philadelphia.
OSolur m. § rw
1 This Day is Pubiiihed,
, 1 AND FO* 8 A L E BY J. PEN NO, 1 £if T
AN ADDRESS
; To the People of Maryland,
ON the origin, progress and pre Cat state of
. French aggrellion, with a fcctch of the i»faniou«
, [attempts te degrade the Qove-rsment of the United
. Statu, an J lome inflections on the late proceeding,
I ia Corgreli; written the lafl of April in the pre.
. sent year, by a Member us the Hoiife of Reprel'cn.
- tat ' va " 5 junen
. ~~~Z : «
Pennsylvania Hospital,
c v '9 *>o. 1, 179&.
d d ' l '•"'f -lious difcat , can
( wmarflKj>hti(tnife; it is therefore ear.
[ neftly recommended to the <, ; ti*ens. not to lend
or ' ring any such putient to the gate, who is i!l
with the pie vailing fever. Several pejfojJ hiving
been feot here improporly, is the rcafoo of giving
this caution,
' ' FRANC ' 9 WIGGINS,SW*
Ten Dollars Reward.
DESERTED from tXe Gaa.-d House in New.
Caftlts this morning, Stepnig Bowb»n, a
private Marine, belonging to the Frigate United ,
Statu. He is akou: 36 years of age, five fees teu
inches high, fair completion, light hair, blue eyes, 1
'' born in England, and by trade a Bricklayer. Pntr
e to the sth of J H ne, the date of his enlinm«it, it '
d resided in Fhiladelpfcia, where it is probable l a
II will endeavanr to go. Any person wh . will ap
' prehcod the said deserter, and fe.-ure him ui ary
jail within the United States, be entitled to
i s the above reward.
F. WHARTON, Capt. Marines,
f- New. Castle, OA. 8.
is' TEN DOLLARS REWARt>.
as T"\ESERTED from my Detachment at Borden-
XJ town this day, a Marine, by Dame Grow
Rodman, a Native of lrelai.d about 15 years of age
frvi feeX eight or nine inches high, dark comp'ec
-3 tion, black hair tied; hlack eyes well jnad« and
qaartelfotue, when ia liquor is fond of singing—had
on a blue seaman's jackett light pantaloons, cot
ton Stockings, round Hat, and tad under his Pan
taloons a pair of Nankeen Breethcs.
Whoever apprehends and fends the ftid Defer*
tsr to the Marine Camp, (hall receive the above
R«ward.
Oflober 11, 1798 ? HEN , RY A WILLIAMS,
/y S Lt. Marines
PROCLAMATION.
BY virtue of a precept (rom Jobn D. Coxe,
Efqwire, president of the court of Oyer and
3- Terminer and general goal delivery for the trial c£
all capital and other offences in the county of
Bucks; End Henry Wtnkoof and Francis
Murrav, judges of the fame court —A coart of
Oyer and Terminer, and general goal delivery,
will be held at Newtowa, in the said county of
Bucks, on Monday the Jth day of November r.ext.
All those who will prosecute a gain ft the prifjnera
in the goal of said county, are reqaired to he then
and there to prosecute again# thani as (hall be just
and all the justices of the peace, coroners and con
ftablet, within the said county, are required to ba
tc ' then and there, ih their proper perf.ms, with their
rolls, records, inquisitions and examinations and
ige other their remembrances, to do those 'hings which
to their officer belong, in that behalt to ba
done v &c. DANIEL THUMAS.ftieriff.
03.4,1798, jtaw
FLOUR FOR SALE '
f By the Subfcrib'.rs,
_ Deliverable at sny of the ports oa the Dela.
ware—who have also on hand at their Sores, 4
ouantity of Bar Iron, Pork and Corn—Letters by
ths post will be attended to.
Levi Hollingsiuortb '& Son.
august «£. dtf
"WILLIAM M'LAWS,
SADLER Stf HARNESS MAKER,
eti TT AS Keiwivjd to the Corner flf ChefnuC
Xl and Twelftb-liTeets, on the Commons,
where he will receive and execute the orders of
,j ra his friends and wholesale enftomers, with niual
att«otion & expedition during the prevalence of
the prcfent Epidemic, whcic it has not made its
appearance this season, nor dvrisg any of th«-
year* i *
f august ij }
FOR SALE, -
The Cargo of the Schr. Siacerity
Benjamiu Motiteith Matter, Irohi Laguira,
>a C9MSUTIKC ot
945 Fenegas of Cocoa
led 4Q°s lb. ol Flora Indigo
re£ j aio Bales of Cotton
® 4 Packagesaf Goat Skin*
By Wilting! & Francisit, >
No. Eleventh ftre^.
July %: dtf
Madras and Ventapaulem \
HANDKERCHIEFS,
JY Searfaukers and Carradarn'es-, ,
of of the HEwelt and mod approvidpaUerns,emith*l.
Ed to the drawback, just feciiycd,
|_ AN> FOR SALE CV te
0 ] Alex. J. Miller If Co:
No. 64, Sovth Frsnt street.
may 18.
Wanted to purckafe.
er \ PPROVED bill* or. Atrderdam, for whitli.
Xx cafe will be gi /en at the rate of thirty f«-
ven cents per Oiiildc. Apply to the Caihier of
the Hank of the United Stares.
Sopt.'p*. er »td, 179*.yL/< nny?7~ T>.<ya? —mwr— g j
Juji imported it) flips William Peiiri, si- ,
miable and J."an, from London, l
A ruantity of Cannon (izoi 4,6 & 9 lb.") with balls. w '
C.vronades, 12 lbn. ' j fuitafclc.
Mufquets, Mi fquctoons, Cutlafles and"\ W
l'utplt, for kfe, I -> m
Rilled barreled Guns, Fowling Pieces, n § n - f r<
and Horfrman's Wi'tols, j -TT do
4,00.01b Flints, ci icily for mulkets, in j sj*
. W»- J °S ev
Rej ularion Light Dragoon Sabr*s, with Iron Scab- p r
bards, in c-lc< of 50 »ach, w
Light Cavalry Swords in Cases
Pabres, Swords and CutlaflVs, with plated mounting eg
Ironmongery \rd Cutlery ia calks, a general af-j
fortment—For Sale by _
Thomas & Jno. Kttland,
Philad. O&ober 25.
A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC. C
JOHN A. SHAEFFER, it Philadelphia, who has -
for a fejw years pail been in the fo».!ietn States, t
has had the effrontery to draw fevrral Bills of Ex
change on rinwthy Pickering, Esq. Secretary of Q
State, and tny!elf,and by that means his defrauded
4 number of persons of their money, deceiving
them by an exhibition of letters and papers with the 2
names affixed of divers public charailen and repu
table merchants highly rer-. lunu.ndatory of said
Sharffer) to one of these papers I find my r.ame
fubferibtd, but I do not know the man ; thtfe are
villainousforgeries! To prevent further imposition,
I have to requefl the | rinttrs of Newspapers in the "
Tinned State* to publilh this for the beneSt of their
felfuw-citizetu. ' SAMUEL MEREDITH,
Treafur'ir oflb: United Stairs.
"Trenton. Nmi 'Jtrfty,
CR.ter 14,
Cmtso stati s 7
Pent.fylvun a LAriit. j
IN puifuaucc of a writ to me directed frosi the
honorable Richard Peters, cfqr. judpe of the
diilnct co>rrt of the Un te ! States, rn and for the
Pcnafyivmia district, vrili be expoieJ to public sale,
on Vir.e firect whan, on Thursday the Bth of T
November next, at I a o'clock at noun, I
I large nt w cable piece* of fail cloth ::
I Jo, worn do. 1 Ibip's bell
I small do. do. 7 iron baur.d water calks
I cable about f inches A detrtraft or irachine
I old tlo. J do. to press goods when
1 coil of cordage loading
2 do. of do. new * iron cranes
1 founding lines of oni r new flag
hundred and foar;'en r do. jack
and fifty fathoms ' pennant
I main f-il 4 copper kettles and lids
1 fote-top-fail * tea kettles
j maintip fr.il I coffee kettle
, j )'•> A small copper pot & lid )
T nv»in-trp 'tay-fail 4 ccmpjfTra
rftudding-fuli A fma'l anchor
4 under ihidding fails 36 calks of rum and about
I fun fail 12 calks of sugar.
The urtid-s aforefaid being now on board the
brig Speculation lying in the port of Philadelphia,
ami diftriit of Pcnnfylvania—The fame having
Veen lived from the wreck of the Danish Ihip
Den Godthenfig'ir at fca, ai d libelled against for
ft lvage.
WILLIAM NIfcHOLS, Marshal.
MarfliaPn office, Oil. 25.
>To Be Let.
for S.'x Months, ft om the firfl of Novem
btr next,
A COMMODIOUS three Dory -brick ho'ule;
with extensive back buildings situated
No. 153, South Second Street.—For terms
apply lj
JAMES LYLE.
South Seventh, near Chcfnut Street.
October 29 dtf
To Be Let; R
And immediate pcjffjKn Given, o
ACO M M ODIOUS Tt.reeS'oT7 Brick House 'J
with convenicr.t back building.', situated
;t the north » tft corner of Third and Walnut
-itretts. —For terras apply to c<
Dr. THOMAS PARKE. b]
No. jo, South fourth Street.
Otflober 19 dtf
TO BE RENTED, L
{ /!na immediate pojfrjjion given,)
ALARtfE three story BRICK HOUSE, "
fuuate in Walnut-street—The rooms are
commodious, airy and private—from which,and d
its central posit on, it is thought to be an eligi- tr
We situation fer a Public Office. For terms, en- 1
quire cf BENJ.W. MORRIS. B
/Ufa, A commodious Ware Houle, i* Tay-
fcr'j Alley. j
Oclober 29. 3tawiw f<
To Let,
THE house, No. 78, North Se- .
c -nJ street, with or without a store and ftabl:—
houfe is large and eonvunient ; enquire of
Jehu Litle,No. 40, North sixth street.
)fober 3X. w& ' a tf
TO BE LET
Arid immediate pojfejfion giiien, ' 5
A LARGE convenient, w»il finifhel house,
Ho. lie, High street, lately occupied by
Postor Wiftarj with coach house and (I ables
Enquire of WILLIAM SHEAFP.
No. 168, High flreet. X
Nov. 2. dtf i«
Whereas the certificate of two ii
frares of the Bank of the United States in the a
n-ime oF Samuel Amory y of London, banker, f
>.'o 3iß2,iffued in lieu of 11593, Ujo4. were
t'nrwarilfd from London by the British packet
Countef", of I.eicefter, capt. Dodd, bound for
-York, which packet was capjured by the
frenth, and the said certificate loft • anj for the
.-entwal of which, application is maide at laid *
IJlnk, and all perfons'coircerned arc desired to (
take notice. k
CLEMENT BIDDLE. .
Fhila. OA. 26, 1798. eo6w t
Notice is hereby given, ,
THAT application will be made to the treasury
«f the United t tates for the renewal of the follow
iM' certificates of fix per cents, funded debu, ftand
iis the name of ant GslrieHt Rigavdy of Gincva,
wh*h were loft from on hoard the Swallow Pack- •
et, Capt. Ktdd, from Falftnouth to New-Yoik.
Dolls • '
V 0.319,5. Reg- office 19th May '<fs, Tcert. for tooc '
13,181. do- 14th do. 60. I do. for 1500 '
Willing: to* Franets.
OdU.bc 24. eo^W - .
Notice is hereby gfrven,
THAT application will be made to the Treifu- ,
ry of the United States, for the renewal of the
following Ctrtificates of Six Per Cert Funded
C. oc k, (lauding in the name of Jitt Cjr&netl, of
l.t-ndon, the laid Certificates having teen loft on
1,-jard the Swallow Packet, Captain Kidd. from
J ttlmouth to New-York.
JVe. 3072 I Cert, for 2QOO dolls. ~l
2964 I do. SQOO >
»OjS77' 1 do. 300 a J
IVlUtngs (if Fronds.
l'hiladelpbia, augnft 30. eo6jr
James & richard sMt rn, "
HAVE tf udiy returned from the country to
the'r srOiiE, No. <4 South Fiout-fireet.
whtre thtyheve for fa!c, a* ulual,a and gc•
ttfral atlortnunt ofEumpcan and Eaft-lr.dia
DRT GOODS,
molt of which have now arrived and are landing,
from the different vcflels, from Hamburgh, Lon
don, Liverpool and Hull.
Their Customers by applying will find almost
every article generally imported, aid at as low 1'
prices for cash or credit,as ihty can be had else
where.
N. B A few Cases of Nurenbergh TOYS, a
consignment, to be CM by the cafe only.
Philadelphia, Nov. 1, 1798. dtf
T
The Subscribers
HAVE It'ST RkCKIVI-D A" INVOICE OF A
SsPDouble Gloucester
CtfEESE. b<
[Per the Chesapeake from Liverpool.]
100 Boxes of Window Glass,
f Of various sizes, per the Jane, from London.
' They have also for Sale,
\ 200 Calks of Kefined Salt-Petre,
AND A QUANTITY OF .
1 Fine Ca s x.or 9Vi.
fames C. & Samuel IV. Fip:er.
, November t dtf A
; JAMAICA RUM, r ~
■A Cargo notu landing at South Jlreet •wharf,
FOR SALE BY M
PETER BLIGHT,
Apply at Stores t>n the Wliarf, Tl
WHO ALSO OFFERS FUR SALI,
KIANDY, rft and 4th proof
Madeira and Port WINES, &C. &C.
I ' Nov. 1. ctf W
Forty Dollars Reward.
f T OST, on tUe road from Mount Holly toPhi- v
l_i bdelphia, on Monday 29th Oitober, 1798,
the following NOTES, payable to the fubferiber : y,
1 Dolls. Cts.
s Eliaabeth Norman, of Juns 29
. x 706, at 6 months, foi 333 33
, Do, fame date,at 12 months, 333 33 W
Do. do iS,months, 333 33
Jacob hlorman, September 30
'775. at 60 days, 81 60
Thomas Potts, Sept. 16, 1796, >J
at 60 days 900
, Joseph Doane, Aiigufl. 17, 1796,
at 6 months 440 60 Fi
Do. fame date, 12 months 440 60.
||. Do. do. 1B months 440 6s
M'lfcan & Varr Emburgh's note,
dared November 9,1796, at 60 2
t days - ... 1150
Do. Nov. 16, 1796, at 60 days 1175
Nathan Field, Nov. 4, 1796, at
60 day* - - 850 C
, John Negus, December 5,'1796, at
J 60 days - - Boj 89 Tl
r Joseph Norman, April 26,1797, at
60 days - - 340
David Scull, July 18, 1797, at 60
days - - - 56 98 *
Jobn Perry, January I, 1798, at 6
months - - 300 50
Do. do. 12 months 371
Benjamin F. Garrigues, February St
21, 1798, at one year - 600
, Do. do. 2 years 600
1 Do do. 3 years 600
5 Do. do. 4 years 600
Wilson and -co. nott, May 8, 1798,
at 30 days -• - 100 A
Row and Simmons, June 15, 1798
at 5 days - _ - 33s
Two Lottery tickets indorfedon the bsflc John
R. Taylor an I John Clark.
There are fonie other Notes, Draughts & Orders
of no life but te the fubferiber.—Any person find
e int; tile fame and returning them to Mr. Alexan
j der Shira. in Mnunt-Holly, or ts the lnhfcriber,
( No. 55, North Water street, Philadelphia, ihall re
ceive the above reward and no questions alked. X
Payment hei«g Hopped, thty can be of no life
but to the cw>i«r.
JOHN CLARK.
Nov. r. ' dtf
Last Notice to the Creditors and
Debtors of John Shields.
, firfl are requested to render their Ac
t A counts against him, made up to the 23d
1 day of August, 1797. the date of his Assign
. ment, that a Dividend may be promptly made.
. The last to pay off their Accounts, Notes, and
Bonds, before the firft day of December ensuing. .
. Any that remain unsettled after that period, will
be put into the hands of an Attorney at Law,
for recovery.
DAVID M. SHIELDS,
Attorney, (in fatfl) to the
Assignees and Trustees of
" > J. Shields.
Chefnut-ftreet, No, 2».
November I, 1798* dtf.
The Subscriber's Office
Being REMOVED from the COUNTRY,
is now OPEN at the USUAL PLACE, No.
36, North Fourth S^mst.
SAMUEL CALDWELL
f November 1. 3td
ALil. Pfc.KM)t>»S Having any iejjai «iemai:ds a
gainst the estate of William Pcriixs, dece.f«d,
late of the city of Philadelphia, Tavern keeper, are
requested to furnifh their accounts properly au
) thenticated, and all persons indebted to said estate
c arc r.-qaefled to make payment to the fubferiber in
r, Philadelphia.
e LEVI HOLLINGSWQRTH Adminr.
■t Odlobcr 31ft, 1798.
£ DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO WIT :
e BE IT REMEMBERED,
(l THAT on the twelfth day
0 \ ) ofAwgoft.iii the twenty-third year of
America, Benjamin Smith Barton, of the said dif
triift, hath deposited in this office the title of a
book the right whereof he claims as author in the
words following te wit :
■y "New Views of the Origin of the Tribes and
/- " Nations nl America—By liepjamin Smith Bar
i- " ton, M.D.Corrtfpondent Member of theSocie
a, " ty of the Antiquaries of Scotland, Member of
It- " the American Philosophical Society, Fellow of
•' the American Academy of Arts and Sciences of
Tf. " Boston, Correfpondidg Member of the MafTa-
X " chufettn Historical Society, and ProfefTor of
50 " Materia Mtdica, Natural History and Botany
" in the Umvfritty at Pcunfylvania."
In conformity to the a<ft of the Congress of the
_ United States, intitlcd "An aS for the encourage
ment of learning by securing tke copies of maps,
chauj.and tooks, to the authors and proprietor,
"• of luch copies during the timesther.in mentioned.'!
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Cierk, Dirt, of Penn*
e d November 2, 1798.
of I
2 Pinmting Work,
Of Every Kind,
EXECUTED AT THE SHORTEST
NOTICE,
M tke Office of tlx- Gazette of the
Unit id States,
oa. 13. dt£.
Amongfl a number of excellent Sengs, f un S nl
Portsmouth f Neiv Humpjorre, on the JfU c
occqfion, the subsequent as original and
elegant, chimed unbounded applaujc*
a
NEW SONGS, ii
V
FOR THE. CELEBRATION Of
PRESIDENT ADAMS's Birth-Day. l f
V
Turic — ki Anacreon in Heaven.'* \
r»
'TO the gvids who prefidc'o*er the nations l>eic>w, |
On Olympoi' high summit convcu'd lnfufl I'eflimii,
America's Genius, wuh Uurel-wieaih'o brow, I
l-oi huTiJble coiilluuents piefetr'd thupeui'Sn- _ 1
" COLL'MUiA be tr« !" !]
To confirm cnis decree,
Be their chartci or Ficedoni erifrufted U) inc.
chorus: t
Stiil combine in firm union the Eagle and Dove, (
The Indent of Neptune, the thunder oj jovc. ]
\
Jove nodded aflVn\ the ju'.l fait Juno mov'd« , t j
) Minerva, gay and Neptune confeiued,
Feather'd Hermes, La una, and Dun approv'd,
But Mars, merry Mom iff and Venus diiFented.
Then commene'd the debate, ]
Each with triumph elate, (
Aryi America'* genius pale for her fate.
Led the gods should diflc'er the Eagle and Dove, ,
The trident oj Neptune, the thunder oj Jute.
' nfc «
Mars blyltei'd aud fworc, if the (fee:op issued forth, c
It would give great offence to the 4 terrible nation? t
That none but Columbia's biave lons upon earth,
Could cutb Sans CulUtes* and airell " 1
Than adieu t« all wars, i
! Blood, triumph aed fears, t
While France her netk to the ll&ndatd of liars.
T J)ifpl<iying in triumph the Eagle and Dove-, v
Wie tndoit oj Nepiuue, and thunder oj Jov'<%
Mom-.is his visage ferew't) up to a sneer,
> Protested Columbians were (worn foes to laughter,
While Frenchmen, so merry, so witty and oncer,
Could laugh ing Sc caper 'midlt oceans of (laughter.
Then these vo 'nes of mine, ]
Who light fktp round my lhiine,
never more offer me inceitffyiivinc,
Jj your fiat unites the bold Eagle and Dove, <
The trident oj Neptune, and thunder oj Jove* v
Next Verms arose. What mzdnefs ((he cry'dj c
Tempts (he gods to. take part in Columbia's dire f
quarrels?
France ti iumphs, with Venus and Mars on her fide, F
With rapes almost. fmfeit! o'eiloaded vMbl»UJc)s. J
Minerva, so (tout, {
With' Diana may pout,
But I'll die, e're to them 1 surrender my vote;
C
Or consent in uniting the Eagle and Dove,
The indent oj Neptune, and thunder of Jove.
Ocean's God then exclaim'd, 'tis in vain to pretend i
That Columbia can proper, her birds torn alunder, j
Then aopcal'd to expennce, truth's voucher Sc friend, .
If h s trident e'er rul'd unprotefted by thunder ?
Call'd Venus a drab, (
Merry Momus, vile blab, 2
And garc bully Mars, what he wanted—a dab.
Then fume ke'd ne'er fever the Eagle and D. ve, »
His trident of peace, from the thunder of Jove. j
Stern PALLAS then riling, her Egison flame! t
The ca*fc of Columbia with eloquence pleaded. y
44 I gave her true wifdorrf, and valour, and fame, j
41 When firfl Adorns the sage, Vernon's hero foe*
44 ceeded."
He dauntless of foul!
Proud Fra' cc Ihai 1 control, 1
And bear Freedom's flag from the line to each pole.
Till the nations revere the bold Eagle and Dt ve, j
i The trident of Neptune, aud thunder of Jove%
9 Then Jove, in the name of the gods, thus decreed, '
The petition prevails— my sons are vicarious ; 1
'Gainst trtafon ar.d Gallia, they still shall succeed, (
And rife cn her ruins, triumphant and gloi ious.
' Her thunder (ha!) roar,
Round each ocean and shore,
Till haughty France humbled, too late shall deplore
The day that cemented the Eagle afid Dove, 1
The trident of Neptune, and thunder of Jove!
I
[ n. j
COLUMBI V't son«, afoufe to glory !
Hark! the loud r»-ump; t founds ahrms! ]
1 Her tow'ring EAGLE flies before yc, .
Her glitt'ring STANDARD calls to arms!
Shall Trance, on rapine (till fiibliftiug,
1 With daring menice, vain and base,
That glorious Standard e'er disgrace, .
' Cne STAR on its broad field existing ?
' CHORUS:
To arms ! to arms! je brave. •'
g Th' avenging fiuord unjheatb !
j March on ! march on ! all hearts refa'.v'd 1
On •vifiorj, or death/
Ob juflire, morals, law, they trample,
The rights of men, and nations i'purn ;
Mankind deplore the dire example,
And with vindi&ive vengeance burn !
, COLUM3IANS! ere too late, take warding!
Detest th' infidiousJly embrace,
And hold no commmefce with the race 1
> Fall'e as til' infernal " son of morning 1"
To arms ! Ijjc.
, Say wretched Venice ! gull'd Batavia !
e What's French prote£lion I Gallic arts ?
Aik Switzerland, alk bleeding Suabia,
e They'll ting a peal to rive your hearts!
a With vidlory, and pride inflated,
Where'er unbridled lull can j^eree,
They lord it o'er the Universe,
Their savage thirll still unabated 1
To arms ! ijfe.
Dire Cannibals ! det«/led nation !
i r Insatiate still, tho' drunk with blood !
f You war'gainft MAN,againil CREATION,
>f And Fiend-like, mike mankind your food!
- And (hall we balely fee the ruin
a Which ghaltly Europe holjds to view,
e And court the gen'ral ruin too,
Our hands in our own blood embruing?
d
4 To arms ! 'He,
►f O LIBERTY! thy lov'd embraces
>f We'll cherilh with our latest breath !
>f Noi-ybrr/, nor threats, nor -vile grimaces,
i- Shall wrest thee from our grasp till death !
if While VERNON's HERO, great & glorious!
y rules the martial band,
And ADAMS, bulwark of our land,
ie Still guides the helm ol State, vuflorious!
To arms! He.
5 t
'j Our wives, our children, grandfires hoary,
n » Uaiiled, -will is to the field!
Aw.ikel AMEHICANS, to glory !
_ I Gird on your fwortls, and gralp the (hield!
Apair.it these monsters of creation,
Be all your bolts of vengeance hurl'J,
Burst their strong chains, set free a world;
And be opprefs'd mankind's falvatiou !
To arms ! to arms ! ye brave,
Th' avengingJ<wrd unjbeaibt!
March on ! march on ! all hearts rcfal-j d.
Ox viP.erj, or dtafk !
' GLEANINGS jy
' FROM LATE LONDON PAPERS, jtl
j«
' ALEX \NDRIA. j ti
De Volriey fays, in his travels in Egypt | a
and Syria, that in time of war Alexandria
is of no importance —No fortificatiou is to i
be seen ; even the Pharos, with its lofty si
towors, cannot be defended, ft |haa not fj
four caaaon fit for service not a gunner h
who knows how to point them. The SOO t
T.am'fTiries, who fhonld form th<- garriP.n, i f,
reduced to half that number, know nothing ii
but how to smoke a pipe- I c IS furtunate a
for the Turks that the Franks find their in- h
tereit iu piefcrving tltis city. A single
Rnfliiln or iVHttefe frigate would fuffice tu a
' 1 la/.it iii afttesV-feut the conquefl wowld he d
of no valuf
maintain as the country ij with- ii
i out water ; be brought from the li
Nile by the Kajida, or* canal of 12 leagues, h
which conveys it thither every year at the v
time of iaundatian. It fills the vault or ii
reservoir, dug tindpr tlje ancient city, and o
this protifion mull serve till the next year, v
It is evident, therefore, that were a for
eign power to take pofTttlfion, the canal fl
would be (hut, aod all supplies of water cut ii
t a
is this canal alont which connefts Al- ti
Lria vvith Egypt ; for, from its fitua- c
tifen without Dalia, and the nature of c
the foil, it really belongs to the deserts of -
Africa; its environs are sandy, flat and fer. n
trees, and without houses, tl
whefe we meet with nothing but the plant 1
which yields the Kali, or a row of palm it
trees which follows the coutfe of the canal. tl
n
BARRINGTON. si
r. The papers lately afTerted, that " George
Barrington was o» his return to thij covin. n
•try, his time having expired." The f.id Is r '
as follows He arrived at Port Jaeklon in a
September iJQi, and was employed on the
government grounds at Toongabbe, lome Cl
diftarie'e frfcin.Sydney Cave, where his very' ?
° exempfary co'riduA procured him firtl the
pod of a fubordinatp, afterwards tiiat of a
s. principal watch, tor the prote£Lion of the
(tores, &c. and in November, 1792, a war
rant of emancipation psffed the seal the
colony, and after the (hort space ot thirteen
months he became a free man such power
being veiled in the governor, in favor of de- n
d serving characters. This was one ot the a
J' last ads of governor Phillip, to t
' his leavirg the colony., With his freedom '
George Bariington had a grant of thirty
acres of land at Parramatta, and was aftrr- n
wards sworn into the commifli n of the '
e > peace. Though no longer a convidt after
November, 1792, yet he could rot leave 1
the colony without permission from the go- v
vernor, and providing his palTsge home him
felf. 1
t> . i
Tlie principle of fer.dVig fufpefted Irifli- '
men on board th"e fleet is, in every conlider
ation of the befinefs, the mod impolitic
that, ever was adoptrd.—lf they are really
United Irilhmen, it must be dangerous to 1
th« discipline of the navy to fend thtin a.- J
mong our loval tars : a»d if thev are inno
cent, we make bad fubjefts of them by '
prosecution, and by forcing them from their 1
families and their homes,
e It is a curious fi<3, witii refpeiS to theliifli (
rebellion, that the parts of the county which are *
most infedled with the revolutionary mania, are (
the Northern provinces, which are inhabited
chiefly by Scotchmen, or the defeendaats of the ,
Scotch; —and the county ot Wexford, the inha
bitants of which are, for the most part, of En
glilh extraction, a great portion of that diftrift '
having been originally peopled by families irom '
( this.cnur.ty. 1
S- The foUowinp curinus an.ecdote is given it the ]
Ami des I o x of the 16th inft.. ,
" As complete a revolution, it appears, t
has taken place, in our manners as in our ;
political institutions. We are no longer to ,
,envy the days of chivalry for their ronjan- .
tic and exalted notions, as the following nar- ,
'd ration will prove : A rich jeweller of St. ,
Honor£ was lately informed by his Jom.ftic, ,
that his wife was in bed with a young and
handsome depnty. " It is impossible," ]
said the mailer. "It is certain" replied ,
the servant. " Take care what you fav. ' r
jj "I fay but what I have feeo." " I with s
to fee it also," Bef(sre the jeweller went c
up stairs to his faithlefs spouse, he, without t
the ki)6wledgeof the servant, raised a ladder j
to the window of the chamber. They then
went up stairs ; the jeweller entering firft, <
(hut the door, and having seen enough to -
convince him, said to his rival, " Let us ,
have 110 disturbance, citizen ; let pre- j
serve appearances. To mcfrrow, at 4 o' (
clock, you will meet me in the Champs t
Elylees. Every thing is prepared
for your flight get out of this win- t
dew." When this was done, the confide- }
rate Ccrnuto opened the doos, and calling in f
the servant, defned him to look around, ob- j
serving at the fame time " how deceitful ,
j! were appearances !" Peter rnbbed his eyes,
flared, «sd ackaowledg«d his miflake !1 1 {
On Wednesday night there was a lirge J
private meeting of the ci-devant members of (
the London corresponding society, at a ,
hou'e near the to coafider of the
propriety of dissolving that connetiioo, with j
a kind of farewell address to the country, ,
imputing their political death so their want j
h | of fnpport. A dillingui(hed member, we (
us! underft#id, fpokp very warmly on behalf of |
breaking up the society near an hour ; lujt
through thfc of a few other* lead
tr«, the motiuc for its was final- 1
ly overruled.
When the late king of Pruflia made hia ,
' firft expedition into Silesia, a little Protell
ant hamlet, which was near a Roman Catho
ld; lie village, came te his Majesty, a-id wilh
all pofiible h'tmility, begged permission to
kill all the inhabitants of the said village.
>d; The king ccnlidered the deputies whilll tbtry
wtre fptaklng with very fcrious attenti
on. " Pray gentlemen—said he,* as-foan
t as they had fmifhed, "if tlia.t Rormn Qatho
-1 * lie village, which so highly offends you,
< wrote so aiiffi- nof me to niorj»»
| V* 0 , you think it just in me t« f„(r.~
{ " Oh, graeious Soveiergn!"replied tfcedepu.
i tiCß| " the caie is exceedingly different. v/
| are the tnie church,"
. rom Edinburgh we learn that the
lmmenle arch of Bervie Briege, of 102 1 . 2
feet of'pan, was thrown over in tbelhort
space of ninv days Its great height gives k a
bold and romantic appearance, and if cxecu
ted With the judicious improvements propo"
i fed ef funk arches . and an elegant iron-rail
ing, will give it both tyrength and ligftthefi"
and make it one of the most commodious and
handiowe bridges in the kingdom.
J'he Abbe St. Real recounts a particular
anecdote about the passage of the Rhine un.
der Louis XIV. The Comptc de G
■ feeing Mai fhal D. about to throw Tumtclf
into the river, stopped him with a p,ft 0 l
his bread. " I fee (said he) you would be
happy to get yourfdf drowned ; a fellow e
ver kead in debt like you, may not mind
it; but pay me the 2&00 Louis d'Ors you
owe me, and then you may go to the De
vil."
We Scarcely recoUrtt a better military
stratagem than that by which Lord Cawdor
intimidated the French troops that landed
at Fifhgnard. It is not generally known
that a number of Welch women, whose
common dress is a beaver hat and a ftoit red
cloak, were ranged on the surrounding hills
——The French commander, when sum
moned to ftirrei-der, was deiired to observe,
that the ascents were covered with faliiers.'
The uniform of the ladies wore at that di".
tlance a molt formidable appearance, and
the Heroes of t)iegreal Nali n retains'd fo
muco of their ci devam gillantry, that they
surrendered at difcret'on to the fair.
The duty on Salt, known under the
name of gabelie, wai one of those iaftitu.
tton's, the abolition of which migl ftranMv
attached people to the revolution. And
yet we find, that a projett has been present,
cd to the Council oi Hundred. pro*
pofiiiji; that the duty on Salt fliould be again
injpoled —This projfft hi:abcen ordered to
ba priuted, previous to difcuOioa.
We are told that the French, verfrd in
th« art of revolutionizing nations, wi.l soon
excite a general resolution in Egypt. But
it will be impofliWe to revolutionize Eg\pt
in the French Ityle, becaui'e 110 political or
gawzition exilic ir. that country ; the Beys
accultomed to pillage and will take
good care not to encourage and fupporc fo
reigners, wh i claim a (hare in their trade!
The late Emprrfs of Russia, thougW the
moil inaftive cf the allies, would have been
the last to m:.ke peace with France, having
folemi.ly declared (he would never recognize
the French Republi, nor any other state
which rebelled -again l ! its fovcreign !
Her Imperial Majedy could never to the>
latt be prevailed upon to acknowledge the
Americans ; and some time-since, when the
Prefidtnt of the United States Tent a Cob
ful to Peterlburgh, who attempted to pre
sent his credentials, the Emprcfs difmifTed
him, with a declaration, that /he knew of
110 futh power as ' The United States of
Amciica.'
[Tire tnotihrflf tlrts Englifti paragraphia
to Republicai Government, has led him
beyond the truth. The fa£l is, that Russia
acknowledged the independence of Ameri
ca, so early as July, 1783, at which time
we had aftually an Ambassador at that
Court,—the Hon. Francis Dana E.]
! The Journal de Paris informs us that Wc
; men hawk about and cryin the Ureets, Lifts
of the Ladies of Pieafure, in which cafe
they mention therafelvcs before they come
, to the end of thg catalogue He adds that
men with voices like Stentor tin?, in the
■ public places, the moll lascivious songs,
the Ladies a*d Young Miifes lilletv
> to them tittering and laughing !!! Sui?h
is the {'ample of Ihe new morals of the rege
' nc-rated Great Nation. The crirrs exclaira
againll the Head Drefles a la Caracalla,
which occafloris serious troils. This, no
1 jloubt, is the <*ly aft of sovereignty allow
• ed to the Sovereign People.
The celebrated Bernadin de St. Pierre
lately tead in the national InftitEte, a fraq
' ment entitled. The Nature of Morality."
The members of the institute were (hocktd
1 at the too frcqWenTmention <>F (Tie exigence
: of God. Alas ! (replied the author) It
can neither ba iifli him fom the universe,
from my confeience, nor from my writing l .
1 Citizen Polombier, after piduring the
1 crimes, and particularly the fucides now
1 committing daily in France, closes with the
rtfleftion—" Behold what it is that Athe
■ ism brings you to ! Th: fincerity.of this ob
servation has given great offence to the Di
-1 re ,'orial Journalifts
-1 Mrs. Billi"gton has been very unfortu
nate in her new matrimonial alliance. Her
■ hunfoand is a Frenchman, and the son of a
1 banker at Lyons. He expended upon her, in
■ prefeuts,treats, See aboat 6aco pounds, sad
I married her to reimburse hioifelf. He is
young, and bandfome, but so
that flie trem,bles at the fight of him.—ln
short, the unlucky Syren is now obliged to
devote all her melodious strains to melan
-1 repentance.
At the assizes at Stafford, when the judtff
1 pa(Ted sentence of death upon Kobcrt Lan
der, found guilty of a highway rofebe v, the
prifewer exhibited a melancholy instance of
depravity, replying, " G—d d—n you :
the gallows ; I care for atijher."—
t Sev2fst"ca7rioFsTiavc been lately tait
America, for the frigates and fortifications.
Tiny are ornamented with the American
Eagle, and allowed by good judges to be
8 equal 10 any iron guns from the foundarieft
of Europe. They are cast fglid, and Lcr
• ed by water —tffis, it is supposed, ai
1 tbeir ftrengtb, as they ftind the f< •
5 proof, a number of them having beer
• under the iafpe&iou of an engineer as i •
f ed by government for this purpefe, -
has entire approbation of -
n and the metal to be of an^xc
lc:;t quality. . p
'» The New York American crbbage 13 cu^tinted *ith fuccefa in thu jtinjdom, tWt Yru re;T
fcveral ha*e been produced at Covent Gay- •ernmau o
den this season, that have weighed from fix- (trillions v
teen to twenty pounds each, and fold at the in an emin
h>w a: live low rate of twopence. In some due to the
of the Iheep breeding counties they have did not rei
been brought to much greater perfcaioti in a com pi lan
the open fields. ncc- '
A man hai invented an engine that will proved, by
ilamp or cut two hundred horfe-lhoes in how mucr
one hour ; and a gentleman has taken out views of t
a patent for a machine that will work vcfT- with hilm
el» along canals, without the use of horses which Wer
.k„„, to the pec
t° tow them. reprcfent;
TRENTON, (N. J.) Odober 31.
' This day, at 12 o'clock, the Corporation of Qhly ,
this city, in a body, waited oh Gharks 6. j aa j
•*! PinclwL EfoiMe-*** to re { um . t ,
the French Republic, and presented htm nQar __/f
«with the following Address, to which he
returned the annexed Answer. sword,
addless
TO THf. , .
Han. Charles Cotes-worth Pinckney.
■ S,R .* r, • CT> Atthi
The Corporation of the city of Trenton,
after exprefLg their fertility of the tods , *
yort have undergone, and the anxiety you
have fuffered, beg leave to congratulate you
on the fafe re-urn to the bofoni of your na- f
live country, and the arms of your friends. m
While we regret th rt the objefts ot your
mifiion remain* yet unaccomplifced, vsre at- fr<ji
sure you ih:« our confidence—that the con- Frjncf(
fidrnce of yrtur Country, in ybuf abilities
"a.'d integrity is not thereby impaired. -■ p
' What man could do, we believe you have Fre()ch ,
done. ~ „ Iby whic
When we fay, we regret that the objeft XIV^
bf your nilTnn remain yet uoaccomp.ithed, wj
we believe ■< e express the fentimeiU or every ftat w
American. Peace with France—peace w.fh (q
the whale world; as it mult be the lntereit, ghou
so it is the unfced will both of government .
ahd people ; but war, with all its concomit I an ; mate
ant horrori, rather than a tributary, rat.ier | nw
than a diflvmotirable peace, is a fentime" | t
you will hear . choed and re-echoed trrtn afpj
every quarter of the continent _ v I
The genuine spirit of American patriot-
ism, which (hone so conspicuously during
the mod gbomy periods of our revolution- 1
ary war, is now exhibited with an ardour, I
not less generous Tri the sentiments of inde- c
v. pendence, and indignant refufal to submit ye ft
ourfe'.ves as tributaries to a foreign nation, Giff ) . n
which universally pervade the ot ouf fchoon
citizens. . I Arr
The inhibitants of America view Ihe p aine>
treatment which you have received, since . ;i
you have engaged in the important million 1
from which you are now returning, in its | l
proper light; they view it as a designed in- I
fult to our government. The wilhes of the I ve j at
\Jn.ted States, expreffe ! in your inftruc- I school
ti*ns, are sincere, wife, and iuft; bat there |
is one testimonial of moderation and for- I „ j
bearance so striking. that while it meets our 1 (
fullelt approbation, unequivocally evinces I _
the sincere dtfire of the American govcrs- I p r^t
ment to avert the horrors of war. Repara- J neUe j
tion for the depredations unjuftiy committed I
on our commerce by Frenc'p was a I cr . p
f - "jrinrrrry objeA tb-Wattametf by negotia- \
tions ; —yet so desirous was our government I r
of peace and harmony with the French re- 1 a
public, that reparation o« restitution was 1
not made the ultimatum of a treaty. It I
•would afford unfeigned pleasure for the I
Americans to know, that France was 1 t
equally lincere in her wilhrs for peace.— 1 v( _ ra j
True it is, that the Miiiilier of foreign re- J veU(
lationn avows this desire—l rue it k is, that .
be charges the failure of the negotiation to Frai
our envoy—But a&icns and not words are
the tfiterion of lincerity. Could ["ranee be J t^ol
fineere in her langunge of peace, when our
commiflionets were refufed even to be ac- 1
knowleged ? CouH France sincerely desire
honorable peace, when a tribute was de-
manded as the price of an audience ? Can mfc
the declarations of peace be accredited, j
while the fame moment exhibits new propls , p r£
of depredation on our commerce ? The fal
lacy of such pretenfioiis is too g aring ; the
absurdity too prepofttous. con
On your return to tliis country, it mull
jiive you pleasure to know, that the people j
of the United States, fn far as refpedts the
governiTieWt anrf Con ilituti'>n, are united and
happy. It is true, that the convulsions of
Europe have created some diversity of fenti
ment on of secondary policy ; but
the love of country, of conftitutioti and
g r H,
vernment, is yet pure and uncontamtnatrd.
This con(litmi~n aud govercment are the
free choce of a tree people, and tr> preserve »
it pure and independent, is the 1 united voice
of America, aR \
Rell allured, fir, that your country are
rot ungrateful for your fervices—Lor.g may
you enjoy the pleasing emotions that must
relult trom the voluntary approbation of a
free penple. f a j
Bv order of Common Council,
JAMES EWING, Mayor. ™
ANSWER.
Mr. Mayor and G«ntlemen of the Corpora
tion of Trenton. r \
IT is, in an high degree, gratrful to me
to receive the congratulations of the Cor
poration of Trenton, on my return to the "
hofom of my cuur.try and to the arms #f my
Jriends. _ . | ,
V The anxietiesaid humiliations with w'nich
T vm4 overwhelmed. »hi!engaged in my <?
fcrtij;r. milfion h.vc produced, at lcail, the '
elkft ofrendiring me more sensible to the
delight of o"ee more revititing . the fiiores
which are tlieliabitations of a free and en 1
lightened people. J
The sentiments which you are pleafcd to
fxprefs in relation to peace, are the eifiifuns J
of viruous minus. Peace should be dear to
all nations ; but there txitts a price at which '
it may be too highly rated. It is
*■ sure I observe, thai you are impreflcd wi|h
the justness of this obfervatian, which the
kjftory of tUe prefm' day h«» Served frwre
flrongly thai) ixer to iHuftrate.
.
Ycu remark with propriety, that the go- Executi
*ernmcni of tl»e UiatcJ in the in- bill pad
ftruitions which it give to its envoys, was .make it
jin an eminent degree mh.dfiil of what was formed
due to the pacific habits of our citizens. It spoken
did not reil the ultimatum of a treaty on had tre
a compliance with the rules rf j«f- orders 1
tice. The envoy! of the United States have are the
proved, by the forbearance of their condufii, I lay tl
how much they were imprefLd with the Seve
views of the r government. They received from ti
with hiimility and patience, the insults mined
which were offered, throdgh their persons, one of
to the people whom they were deputed to adds,
represent \ but humility and patience claim Amen
no merit in the eyes of the nation Jto whom betwet
they were dispatched. Force and boftility are
the otily titles which it is aqccftometi to re- Y„f
sped. and the only titles>y which we wuft C<
p'refums. to preserve our fafety and our ho- Cork,
noar—Jf tve would have peace -with France, Cork,
it mujl be obtained, not by negotiation, but ty VVilmi
the fworJ. We must convince her, that we Nerth
are united, and determined at every hazard Th<
to main'ain our independence—To produce sl oo p
this conviftionj declarations and words will t er> a
not be fufficient, we must prove it by aftion. olir J
At this important crisis, it is incumbeat pilot,
| on us plainly to declare our sentiments. t0 ch<
3 j For my own part I believe that the French
' direftory are not sincere in the pacific decla
1 rations made by the minister »f foreign af
fairs to Mr. Gerry. I have never deceived
my countrymen, and I never will. It you g u
r would secure the Independence of America,
free from ttie and intrigues of
France, I air. convinced we must fight for j
3 us prefervaiion. Univcrfaldominion is no
7 less, at present, the invariable object of the
C French government, than it was the fytttm
0 I by which were direfted the councils of Lew-
YI i 3 XlVth. It will depend alone oncurfelves
' that we (hould b«>exempted frona the lift of
T dates, who have been and fhili be, the vidl
« iais to her nefarious qmbition.
1 ' Should the spirit which I now behold
, nt rouzed in my fellow-eifiaens still continue to g
I animate their councils and their aftions, I
'[ j (hall need no other proof that Am:rica is
" [-not doomed to fall bctitath'the attacks of
I her afpirintr foe.
it , CHARLES C. PINCKNEY.
>»- Bp t|)is Dap's: QBaiL
jfi I
is : CHARLESTON, Oftober 17. M ,
nlt j Yesterday arrived the schooner Lydia,
1 Giff i'rd, Wilmington, (n. c.) 5 days ; §
:>Uf I schooner Hope, Wordey, Tortola, 22 days. ;
, I Arrived at the Fort, the fch. Galatea, j
I Paine, Cape-Francois, 17 days, captain Bi- !
" ce (hop ill of the fever ; sloop Eagle, EarK,
? n J Rhode.lfland, 5 days ; sloop Patience, Ro
•' tS I g" B > 13 davs
I The following letter was yesterday recei-
I ved at th : s office, from capt- Paine, of the
uc " j fchoor.er Galatea, dated at Fort Johtifun,
f Cre I 1 5 inftant.
* 1 " I arrived this afternoon from Cape'Fraf*- 1
our I ceis, which place I left on the 30th Septem- |
nces I ber ; the day before I failed, the schooner na
trK " I Prodigue Enfant, formerly the Maria Antio- th
' ar<l J I nette, mounting 16 guns. arr?ved there from as
itted I L>o r ient,in 32 days paflage. Soon after N
a I her arrival, which was 'in the rr.Orring, I |
° lla " I went on lliore, when I found the inhabitants
i" int I l° w fpifited, expefting fh* had brought
la declaration of war agaitill America. I en- I
1 quired the news ; no one could tell any ; all
' , I expefted a declaration of war against Ame ■
1 e I rica. At 12 o'clock, Mr. Suluaze, a young ; 3
WaS 1 gentleman of refpeftabtl charafter, and fe- t<
ce ' J veral othsrs, returned from on board the cor
=" ie I vette. Mr. Suluaze told me, that the eap- j
la | tain of the corvette had informed him that v
'.on to I France had "no disposition to, go to war n
aU 1 with America ; that for some time, it wa*
ICC C j thought ir>F ance ihat war would be decla
n oul I red ; but, on the matter being brought be-! c
e p C fore the legislature of France it was found ; ]
, re that the majority was for peace wit h A me- j j
" rics, and that it fliould be entered upon im- ,
? Can mediately.
•diteo, j n t | ie a f ternoon 0 f t h e fame day.saw capt. '
prop s , p rearf . 0 f Charledon, now at the Cape, (
, who informed me that he had just parted
• * with the captain of the corvette, and the
commodore of the squadron at the Cape :
t must t | le ca p ta ; n 0 f the corvette had infoinn
ed him, thit the decree, fubjefting Ameri
® j can veflels having British goodn on board to
. • f confifcation, was Taken off, and that Am;
'° r ' S °. rican veflels were at liberty to go where
they pleaftd with Britilli goods, provided
'*, they were neutral property: that vi&or
ndg '- Hughes was called home from his adminif
niatr . tration at Guailaloupe, and anotlier appoint
-11 e ,' ed in his place, whose name I have forgot
ireierve cvetl ;„g [ yyas at Mr. Suluaze's, in
VO!Ce company with the captiin of the corvette,
aatl several captains of the frigates at the
try are £ a p e . j aflted Mr. S'lluaze if there was a-
S ina > , n y further news refpe&ing America ; he
it mu s a id only a confirmation of what he had in
jn 0 3 formed me of at noon ; that the captain
said it had been debated for a considerable
time io the councils, whether they (hauld
3 y or * declare war against America ; that on the
question being taken, it appeared that there
, were large majorities for peace with Ame
'orPora r j ca . that a vessel was to be difpatehed to
ul to me America with the news. The captains of
he Cor* l^e fr'£ atcs congratulated me on the good
Ito the newß 'hey had received, and which I would
r be the bearer of to America. That after
noon every face I met appeared with a smile,
th which though in the morning all was dejeftion :
i in mv \good news, c pitaine, France will have no war
leail the /Imerua < waß l^e falutalion I received
e to' the rom ever y Frenchman Lm«t in the llreets.
•e (liores " E s^or * came on board, I waited on
■ and en r " 3 gentleman of the firft refpeft
ability in the Cape, knowing him to have
>leafcd to been at the government houte: he informed
efFiiiions ms » t ' l>t k jen l ' le coaimiffioneri
ic dear to r -^ Jt conversed with an officer that
at which ar, i vc d in th ■ corvette, who had
w i t hnlea'. m P railCC did not appear to be dif
•!Tcd with P°fed to go to war with America ; tha
which th- or Dupont. the ConfuLGen.cral, hat
ved riire retl «''- from America, and made report o
, his having been rtfufed by the America
*fr *'
Executive, and hid publifhsd the innercourfe
b.ll passed by vlonairefs, but they did no.
i • make much impreiiion. The officer also in
> lo'rmed him, that on their parage th:y had
t spoken with several American viftels, and I
> bad treated them politely, for such wer? the
orders they had rec;ived. The foregoing SATUR
s are the reports as I received them ; as such ___
, I lay them before the public." j
e Several letters received bv the Galatea, m j re 0 f j
i from the Cape, confirm the intelligence fur
s nifhed by Captaai Piine, in the above letter, banners t
I, one of them ir.mi an American gentleman t j ){ol f e ; V(
0 adds, that two deputies were to be sent to (t w ;
n America, to difeuft the enifting differences enfmy oj
ti between the two nations. poser 01
re O&ober 19- Whai
t- ■ Yesterday arri»ed the ship Lvicy, Conol- If he hat
ly, Cork, 38 days ; ship Ruby, Meffroon, er he
3 " Cork, 38 days; ship Ann & Sufau Picket, hie t V, an
ii Cork, 3S days; fchoorer BctTey, M'llhenny m an whi
l y Wilmington", (N. C.) 3 days ; sloop Maria, e j• defence
" e Northam, Newport, I.) 7 days. inttrcll I
r d The Conllellation frigate, the Baltimore lnate ; n
ce (loop of war, and tl $ Virginia revenue cut- mcr ; t „{
ter, a schooner mounting 16 guus, was off c .
"• our Ban last evening. Mr. Gellway, 'be mann er.
pilot, brought letters from Capt. Truxton ,} oor) t(
t«. to t he agent of the navy here. ! forgivin
ch I tion, bi
la ELECTIONS some fu
a J d For Representatives to Congress. s
0U State of the poll in Chiraw dlsthct. .
*"*£ Colonel Samuel Be 4 ton. List of
r° Darhngten county, -- - - ' 2 art
lOr Chefterlield, delph
n0 Marlbordugh, ... - - 34 Cler±
*m ' [«*J
:w- General 7rijtfam Thomas.
!ves Parhnjjton, ------ 3
Lo | Chefterfitld, - -- -- -- 79 I
MarlUerouglr, ----- - 138
Chri
& - S:i
e '° State of the poll in CamDiN Distric r. pj r^
l8 ' } Sumter. Winn. Sect)
1 * Richland, 137 & T hi
; °' Kerlhaw, :::::: 17.? 2 5 Scot
I.ancafter, :::::: 242 33 ' V' -
f. Fairfield, : : : : : 1 163 St J
—— Qlaremont and Salem, 365 i' 3 i, n
/r Clarendon, :::::: 146 £rie
* ijiß 67a S«<
Gei
M.<iority for Gen. Sumter, 556 p el
ydia, ' Mo
iys ; state of the poll for a part of NiniTY-Six B a t
iays. District.
atea, Harper. Butler. j c "
B'- '
[.arle, Lawrens, 636 »50 Ke
, Ro- Newberry, 390 163 Co
recei- i6 7 2 61 3
t j^ e State of the poll :or SaXiOotha. .-r-r
---tifun, ** Pierce Butler, 150 *
John Rutledg% 46 mo\
Fra»- I
ptem- ' It is supposed that General Pickens it u
ooner nanimoufly defied member ef Congress, for
Vntio- the diftriets of Pinckney »nd VVafhiugton,
: from l asit is said, that on bis offering, Messrs. T1
after Nott and Smith withdrew their names. from
j n j —. Coui
litants BOSTON, Oftober 27.
°I en-1 SALEM PATRIOTISM.
iy ; all A frigate of 32 guns is to he built at Sa-
Zlme lem, by the-late fubfeription money. She
young j 3 to be loaned to government. A commit
>d fe- consisting of William Gray, jun. John
he cor- Norris and Jacob Afhton, Efqrs. captain
e eap- Benjamin Hodges aRd Ichabod Nichols,
1 that we re chosen, to put the bufiuefs into irn
-0 war mediate effed. Opi
it
e decla A gentleman of information in MiddleseX Ess'
;ht be- ' county, writes thus •—" Cnl. Varnunvs
found ; Frenchified conduft in Congress, the difor
-1 Ame- I ganizing fpirtt which he has uniformly dif- j iul
ion im-1 covered, and his attachment for that bead, A 1
Lyon, has opened the eyes of the tleftors.
tw capt. They seem generally opposed to his re-elec-
Cape, j tion ; but in a mrafure undetermined, who
parted shall be his fuccrffur—they wifli only for an
ind the honest man. It is believed, however, the
Cape : Hon. Mr. Bigelow will receive a handsome
infoim- support. The Fedetalids intend to make a
Amen- general mutter—they conceive their dearest
Joard to ;, U erefts at stake."
it Am;
> where Extras of a letter from the aunty of Berk- '
provided Jhire.
t viftor «« Sedgwick, the (launch federalift, will
adminif- undoubtedly be eleifted to Congref*, jo the
appoint- r oom of Skinner, the diforganizer. The
r forgot people of Bevklhire, you may reft a (Tared,
ize's, in re main untainted with Jacobinism." „
corvette, > '''
at the q-fjg }j ezu Federal Theatre.
re was a- Will be opened on Monday, with more
rica ; he fp] cn< J or »han has been exhibited on any night A
e had in- 0 f dramatic dedication, iu this town. To
captain t j, o f e w ho have never vilited the house since .
lfidera'ole gg been re h u i!t, it is impoflible to give
y (hauld a[) y a d e qoate idea of its admirable conltruc
at on the t j Qn £ or coo»municatii»n of found, the
hat there exce n ence 0 f its accommodations for the au- p
me dience, and he unparralled elegance of its [;
iehed to decorations The Theatre, to the great ho
lptains of n(jro f Bulfincb, as an architedl, is per- S
the good brilliant in its effeft, yet perfeftly
1 I would j n j ts deftgn. The whole interior is j
hat after- Qne oontinutdfynndiog-board ; and the fren- (
.h a smile, t jfpj ecej profcenus and dome, are fintfhed in- ]
lejection : t h e highest rate. In fine, thu whole theati e 1
rveno-war jn t j )C opinio of judges, is very far superior (
I received j n jj raut y an( j convenience, to anyother
le It reels. o|l t j, e continent. The Scenery, by Audin, ;
waited on execute( j w ; t h the most matterly graces
•ft refpea- of the ptfngil . and the st a g e an d machinery '
m to have are con n ru £l c d by the f3me ingenious artist,
e »nf()rmed on the mo j e i Q f t he most improved Theatres
'(q r' in Europe. Mr. Hodgkinsou's Company
jfficcr that - t ?e nuaierouii „„(! po (Tefl'>» every species
d "'uA of dramatic merit. His own talent, both
to be ait- as a Muager tad «&or, is indisputably of
' riCa ' tb " the fir» order ;we couaot therefore conclude
ncral, had t hj„ arl i c l fj without cordially congratulating
c report of hjm cB , pro fpedt of a very fuecefsftil sea-
Amsriciiii on r
Xj)C (sa;cttc. ,h
PHILADELPHIA, The A
SATURDAY EVENING; NOVEMBER 3-
The Baltir..orean«, ft ill wallowing in the Adn.inill
' mire of Jacobinism, have pnblifhed a pem the y«ar
pous addrtfs to the Eery genius under whose ed the
' banners they have laidy so servilely tnlifted Revol
1 thtmfe'ives. He tell? them, in answer, that . ,
° »« He will continue to (hew himfelf alike the
enemy of her £French J influence andthc op
pofer of her power !!!" '1 hete.
What d->cs he mean by the word continue f of the ci!
'■ If he had pledged himfelf to besi-< oppoling ''»" d
"' her, he would hive appeared dtfpica- *" ve p^"-
ble than at present. For despicable is that „f t he Ik
•y man who after having sppofed every measure m ;c erg bh
a » ef defence, and uniformly propped the French Nov
inttrcll by his vote, attempts with corfum
re inate impudence ai'd insult to make a
c " merit of having " opposed her power." Fever, a
As every mifcreaut who in so dirty a g [at
,e manner, attempts txx creep in by the back owner it
on door, to the good graces of the meei and Nov.
\ forgiving Federalists, merits, r.ot confidera
j tion, but,added contempt, I will bettow
some future moments on a review of the St Cro - U
past Sanfculottifm of this iafuriated Jacobin.
N. B. He voted in favor of LYON. ln p ;p Ci
■ N TV
List of all the Burials in theJiever A Grave Eighteei
Tards of the City and Liberties of Phila
delphia, as taken from the books kept by OYe
Clergymen, Sextons, t£c.
PColleiSted for the'GAZKTTE of the Unit(D Ja
States, by ROBERT PAXTON.]
Names of the Burial Grounds. 5 |2 Wil
Christ Church ... - o e Warier
St Peter's .... 00
St. Pauls 1 ° Wil
First Prelbvterian - 00 „ rt J pi
Second Prelbyterian .- i * 01 I\j o ,
Third Ptefbyterian - o o j _—
Scots Prelbyterian - - - oo I
AfTociate Church- - - - ° 0 A '
St. Mary's Church ... 1 .
Trinity Church - - - q o con(»i(
Friends' - - - - - oo I 2 /S a
Free Qnikers' - - - 0 0 ~d B«
Swedes - - - - -
German Lutheran - 1 °|fionwi
German Reformed Prelbyterian i o I for
Moravians' - - - - c 8 I /
| IX BaptifU' ... - oo j HO „
Methodists' • - - - oo I
Univerfalifts' - - - - 00!
r " Jews' ..... oo I
' City Hospital - - • - 8o I vf
Kensington * • - 10 1
! Coates's - - - - - eoj D j
— I prop<
Tutal for the last 14 hours IJ 1 I his m
■ ■ - Ihe w;
* # * The Custom House is re- e p s^ te
movedfrbm Chester to the City, and r« n
is again opened at the usual place. I
"j'* for Novemb ' si * p™
REMOVAL. I thou
leffrs. THE SUBSCRIBERS haveremoved thei» Office I w he:
i> from the corner of Eleventh Street, to their former I T
Counting Houie, No. ai. Penn Street. I well
Millings & Francis. « ur
November 3 S I (j,
' ~ " I hou:
"she" ' Just Arrived, , Z
. In the Brig Eliza, from th« Mcdlterraivan, and bou
>mmit. now l an aißg at Walnut Street wharf,
John Fourth proof Brandy in Pipes, in s
a P tain Brimft. n-. j thal
ichols, Anaffortment of valuable DRUGb, ™
0 im * coNaisr»NC^>F
Opism, Aloes, C.iuhjriies, Camphire, Senna, I Jre
tremor Tartar, See. &e. j jm
ldlefex Essences of Lemon rnd Bergsmot 1
mum's 'ft'rit.fe paper
,-r Sweet pifeto bottles and HiUcs
; dilor- o[; veSj anchovies and capers
ly dif- Juniper berries
beast, AL S J.—'ltalian lutcfliingt j
leftors. et
re-elrc- C " f> " . V at
, Umbrella« |
d, wno Remaining on Hand, 1 Pi
f,ar an St. Croii Sugars,
the Claret in cases j V
ndfome Old Madeira Wido of the firfcqwity. I ±
make a JAMES YARD. I
dearest November 3 S Ith
, n , Samuel Potter, Williajn Page and J,
Thomas Price,
ift, will No. 31 Chesnut stieiit.
(0 the -Are now opening a very extensive njortment of
' The D,R r GOU Ds,
a (Tared, Suitable to the present season,
*Which they have just received per i r
Ships Factor, Boyne, Otfego & Independence, ol
r£ ' (via New.Tort j fron.LQNDON, P
:h m °" Alio, per (hips William Pei,n & Amiable from Q .
Ny night L okdon, and (hips Sally aedThomas from
iwn. 1 o Liverpool, $
nfe since «,,// fell on very low terms for n
to g IVI -' ca jj J or a pp ro v e d notes, viz.
ind the Common and fuperfine 7-8 fancy and china cal
/ cloths licoes
r the au- f anc y coatings 7 8 common and chintz
; of its an i Clripsd cilfi- furnitures 1
great ho- meres A very lar*e quaßt.ty of {
1 {. ner- Swarifdowns cbu%lzti
f Refe and duffill blanket. Purple and chintz Aawls ]
pcrteCTiy Red jn(l yel i ow fl aoDe l, jLinm and lawn pocket t
uterior is Fine We lch flannels ! 1 andkerrhiefs '
I the fren- Carpets and carpeting Camels'hair (bawls ]
nifhedin- Jeannetts & tabby cords Iv. ry large afTortment of ]
le theati e Velvet«ens k velveretts ribbonds ..... .
le tneati e Th^kf< . tts Briufcplain checked,(ln- !
r luperior Ca if im a ncoe s, <hirMi(a k pe^andtambour'd muf- (
anyother ■ )t | IP . of all descriptions
>y Audin, Silk, cotton, and worsted Colored bordered (hawls,
ly tjraces hose a great variety
•nachinerv Cottoh, callicoe, k twist j-4.a*d 6-4 conjcverams
7 , h , c k, and bettwllees
ous artist, Dimitie , India bo»k&]*conet muf
-1 Theatres an( j j.g dow'afs lins
Company Damafh table lineu I.acc* and edgings
■rv fpccies 4-4 and 6-4 (bettings tfluck and pateot lae«
en- both IrlO. UtW-S L«e v.ils ,nd figured
kl r Oln.'hams cloak,
litably of ,>u!ongs andfattin.
C conclude very large ouantity of and Mifißitl
jratulating ! i t mode.
.cf&ful sea- And a varietv of other articles.
Nov j . tß.thaim
v
VOR SALE,
A-r Z/Tis OPl]>;r t
A FEW Copies of,»n intcrcfting \Y<rk,
lYern-h. cnrirled a Hi'tory of
The Adiuiiiißration of the Trench
Finances,
DURINi, THB TRAR 179*.
Alto, A« Hiftorirafand Polijical View of the ,
Adniinilli alien of the French Republic, during
the y«ir 1597, —of the causes which produc
ed the
Revolution qfijhc 421b September —
And of the refuks of that Revolution,
FXICR I POL LAX EACH.
Theit.t wo political trails, are from the pen
of the celebrated u'lvernois.and contain athou- 4
land iitrrefling difclofuret of the folly, venality
and profligacy of the diflerent Usurper» wljj
have reign»d in France during the
of the horrible Revolution how peuiiing in that
miserable and depraved country.
Nov. §
;LAMB L A C K.
A quantity of Lamblack was left during the
Fever, at the Office of the Gazette of the Umt
-1 ed Statea, —supposed through miliake. the
owner is requefled to call an J take t away.
1 Nov. 3- &
The Subscribers
Are navi Landing—For Sale,
e St. Croix Rum—iVlufcovado Sugar
u Red Port Wine,
In pipe-, hogsheads and quarter Calks.
■ Two thousand bufliels of Salt,
>e Eighteen Iron Six p u"-Jers* proved at Wooswich.
j Philips, Cramond, & Co.
;,y
Female Education.
b James A. Neal's School,
FOJt THF TUiTJON OF
7 TOUNG LADIES,
Will recommence on Monday, the 11th of
2_ November, pt hit School Room, No. 28,
e Carter's illey.
o cy The Evening School
0 Will be opened, as usual, at the Jame timi
0 end place.
q November 2 eodst
o " FOR SALE,
O A FARM on the road leading to State Island,
o jf*\. within four and an hall miles (jf Philadelphia,
O containing faciei in she highest state of cultivation
2C aerea of which is maadow, Hie remainder np
° l»d. 1 here areon the premifes,a new frame House
0 and Barn, with an excellent kilchen gardee, contam
-1 ing a great number of fruit tieea. —Immediate poffeU
0 fion will be given.
O For terms apply to _ ,
o Thomas W. Francis,
' ° BO*. 3
° Forty Dollars Reward
Jo FOR APPREHENDING
50 £ gentleman negro,
1 0 T)Y name Georoi or Giorg t Parisr, the
3 o Jt) property of the fubferiber, who ha< thought
| prop*on the night of the 413 iuft. to elope from
5 a I his matter without a?y provocation or just caule ;
==. he was formerly the property of Beckwith Butler,
- p I esq. and lived a considerable time with • ■
I Pottenger.whokept tavern in Frederickburg,having
md seen much company and travelled with several
1 I gentlemcß through different pr; soft is state, Ik
'* lis mnch known. It is therefore coloured hi
' I will pu(h for some of the northern cities or towns
I ashehasdifcoveredan .verQonte plantatfon work,
1 though he may perhaps have crossed the ridg«
iffice w here he has a brother belonging to major Butler,
inner I This fellow is about five feet leven inches high,
I well proportioned and walks active and brilk, his
I countanance is open and agreeab e enough wive a
1 in good humoiv ; he can hardly be furpaft in
' (hrewdnefs, and is a very capibk waiting-man,
houfe servant, barber, &c To defcrit.e his dress
would be useless.as he possessed a variety of clothes,
I though when drefTed lately, he wore a green roat
» an " I bound with white ferreting and fpotfc** jacket and
br jechts. Whoever br ngs him home or secures
S) jin goal or any other state tb Have, so
I that I may get him again, (hall have the above re
rr-Q A-ard ALEXANDER. VASS.
1 I Fa'mouth OA. 13,
N. B.—Mafters of vessels and Stage Driver*
Senna, J requested to beware of fuffering said fellow to
I impofeon them by afliftinghis escape. A* V. ,
November 3 w&t-4W
POST OFUCE,
Philadelphia, Z^thOSober, 1798.
LETTERS for theßritifhPack
et (for Falmouth) will be received
v jat this office until Tuesday the 6th
j November, at 6 o'clock, P. M.
N. B.—The inland to
I New-Tork must be paid at this office.
D \ The Office of the Mayor of
the City of Philadelphia, is held for the
prefunt at the State House i« the Court
: and room . 18 -
IS R AeTpLKASANTS Iff Co.
71 ent of N" 74, South Second fireet
Have returned from the country ; and havefor
SA ' E, as usual, a large affortm:nt of
DRY GOOD S,
i per Imported in the last vessels from Europe. cenEft.ng
lenee, of articles principally suited to the pref.nt and .p-
V ' Pr They D fri''letcrmined t« fell off very low for
>le from ca fl, or & o rt credit.
from ote person* indebted to th® late wm of
Samuel Plvjant, t3* Sw, «e desired to make im
hinz cal- -**?-
1 chintz fruits, WINES, Vc.
MALAGA WINE, in butts
antity of gjjERRY ditto, in quarter calks
tz Aawls BRANDY, in butts and pipes
1 P ocket SUN-RAISINS, in kegs
wis MUSCATEL'do. in boxes
rtment of BL qOME do. in do
:ked,flri- SOFT SHELLED ALMONDS in facte
lr'dmuf- qjjye OIL is boxes of 12 bottles
■dmawi,, BITTER & JORDAN ALMONDS in
ijcverims b(,iLeS ' &C ' FOR S/ i[,K BY
met muf- PETER KUHN,
Ko. 17S, North Market flreee.
g« Nov. » dlot
it lace '
i figured jPPfIENTICE
tins TO THE PRINTING BUSINESS
rfinets will be taken at this Omce, 11
[des< immediate application be made^
lifi.im I.j c .in
PROPOSALS, t'«"
nefo
BY THE
Jnfurance Company North America.
For Insurance againll Firi, on DwtUine- v
House*. Wa-re-Houfe*, aftd other Buildings (and pj ti;
on Good# in such Buildings) distant from
Philadelphia, in the United States. j,.y
■ ■■ (
I Common on haz»r4« of the firft
class, will he undertaken at a prexniura of aiiout " 1
hall per cent, per annum. For extra hazardous ei
rtfqurs a larger preminm will be required, wheh (^ r
will raiy recording to circun {lances, fodem ex- (,en
teedinjj oneper cent, per annum ; but in some in-
Ranees, whete the property insured w not onlf in I
Ufclf extra hazardous, but rendered still more so the
by the vicinity of extra hazardous building* and to.
occupitions, thepremimw demanded will frc raised
according to circumftar.ee*. oiil
Houses and Wrire-Houfes, the wall* and tocrti- tbe
tions of which are wholly of or ferick, well bfc*.
conttru&ed, so as to br guarded as well as may be
tgainft fires from within, and tree t'rorn extra ha
zardous buildings and ccecwpations in their neigh- Qjj\
borhood, will be deemed hazardous of the £rft
daft, and may be infuiccl to their full value. j
Good" and Merchandize, not o an extra «,
hazardous kind, in calks bales, <>r packages, ie
pofitcd in i'u'ch to an amount not ex
ceeding 4000 dollars ; but if more than thisfam
is required to bf inftire«l in one tenement, an addi- \
tiowal premium will be required, in proportion to
circiiMiOance?. j a j t
11. wlun ices will also be mad« on buiLlingsand
gooefs extra kizarilcus, at premiums prn\>ortioned
to tlu»rifq\w. But it is t*nt e fy to arrange these
on J .cr particular heac.n or claiTes, so as to deferibe
each wirh the neccflary accuracy. Each c^f r must
then-fore bt decided upon acco,r<;\irg,to eircum-
tvnding it ; and thefV crcumflarccs wili, L (
in genera), appear frftiil the defcrptiwii accomrn-
application
Buildings partly eonftructed of or stone, No
r.re preferable to those wholly wopder. And in
bothca/es, the ftife o( how they are or
cupied, h<*v they are fituatvd, the neighborine
buildings, and how occupied, are cenfiderations to
be taken into view. And with rcfyevl t® goods,
their tendency, whether from their nature, or
the man net in which tixty expofed, cith 1
to nomnencc cr to irtreafc an accidental fire, a fed
their liability in such ftatc to receive damage by fyj
wet, or by sudden audhaOy removal, or to l*e fto-
len in time of cOPnfufion and hurry, are all civ-
cumftanees of weight ; and the ptemiutns mufl be
proportioned accordingly. Ipj t
111.-The following conditiont are to be under-
flood by the parrj& . \ ed
T(f. The Insurance is not binding till tbe ftipu
' l rcmiuw be paid ; but it lhall be dee mad el-
fccliral Trcm the tim* of such payment and accep
♦ •.nee thereof, whether the policy be immediately °r
ligncd or not. , . e
2d. Insurance* may be renewed at the expira- ott
tiod of the term of the policy, without furtnerex- in
than the payment of th* premium of the re
newed term, the circumftuiicTscon'«?ming the fame
as they were wndcrftood by the Insurers at the time
rhc former insurance was maoc ; but the payni'flt
oi the premium is efTentiat tf» luch retl'ewal : ind
if the pArry irfured luffers any time to elapfc after
the expiration of the former iuiurance, before he
pays h premium for tberencv/al, he i's.nor insured 1
during such t-infe ; r.or c,m the insurance be renew- 4
ed ©n :he former policy but by computing the
ci nim-Jiccment of the renewal fr»m ,thc exjuration Or
wtif the former insurance. The iubjeil ol Infur- 0
dhce may jieVerthelefs be open to treaty for a new
infur.Tr.ce.
3d. If any other insurance be made on the fame mi
property ; it mufl be macle known at the f/'me oi
imilicatiori, ptherwil'e th= policy made on such ap- 101
p-'catioo will he viid. ' dS
4th Gouas fieM in trust, or on confifiiment, to
r3«y be i::fui- il ns fiich in a po icy; but
«}.»•) a:c ..o! t»lic ror.fidered si infjk'ualhei wife. >"
vth. 'i'liife cun.p«-ny wiif not be liable or accoun- "f
tabic for Buy fyfs or damage ocpafioijtci by any !or- an
elgn invsfi.it., or Hy piy miiie«ry or usurped force-
or l»y peafjn of any civil commotion ; or occasion, n 1
ed by gunpowder, afj.nfortis or other thing of th- t»
like kind kept in the building, or amongit the pro- v '
ptrty insured. '
* fith. Bills of Exchange, Bonds other Seeu- tr
ritl«, Title IVds, Money, Bank snd Other pro- en
niiflci y Notes," are not included in any insurance ; bf
nor are paintings, -nedals jewels, gems, antique "<
ouriofiticj, of mirrors exceeding the value of twin- w
ty-Dve dollarseavh, to be considered as insured une te
itfs particularly mentioned and by fpccial agree
mait.
7th. No will be made for a Itiorter 10
term than one year, nor lor a longer term than fe- "
v „ n years. Persons choosing so mfßre for seven
ysjrs lhall b fallowed -one year's premium by way ol
of discount : Or.e third of a years premium lhall b;
he abated in like manner tfn an infuraaee for
three years. . J
Bth. X,olfes fuilained l?y fire on property in.ured, ia
iliall he paid in thirty flays after due prouf and li- <•<
nuidation thereof, without deduction. _ h;
A defciiption of the property to be infurod will P
be 1 xjviled with each application, to be made by
a matter carpenter and finned by him, as well as n
hv thu owner ol the building 01 applicant for in- ci
J'urai.ce, and attelled before a Notary or principal t;
Magistrate, who will certify his knowleige of the c
parties and their credibility. j P
With refpedl to Houses and other Buildings. :<-
,11. Ihe site and position ; deferibing the.*
ftrcei or road on or near whrch the building
jtj iu ls j its contiguity so water, ami other cir- ; ''
riimftances relative to the extinguilhment of fire |
in ci re ol accident j" ami particularly whether .
anv and what fire companies are eftablilhsd, and t
engines provided, in the place or neighbourhood. I
2 d. The materials of which it is b iilt, whe- [
thcr of brick, flone or wood, ahd what part of ; t
each, as well as to the outside -walls as inlide or
petition walls, and their refpeflive height and t
fhic'icne s ; the fiyle of the roof and of what t
materials; howrectired by battlements or par- j
!v wall* ; what kind of accef&to the top of the 1 ,
Koufe at'd to the chimnies ; whether any and ]
wi:;; eleftrie rods i the number and Tcmd of ,
»ire vi! ccs ; and the kind ps deposit for alhes. (
1 he dimer.fions of the building and how
divided, and the ftvle In which it is finiflied so
is to enable indifferent persons to jndge in what
manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt 111 Cafe of
i: jury ; the ?ge and condition of the building,
and how occupitd, whether merely as a (lwd
ling house, or for any other, and for what pur- I
n.ife j also an ellimate of the value of the house , '
or huildmg independtnr of the ground. j
4th. The fitoation with refpea to other build- |
logs or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, crmprehendii>g at least oqe hundred sett
rath way : what kind of buildings are within
that dillance, how built, of what materials, and
l ow occupied or improved, whether as dwrel-
I bcs for private families or otherwise : whe
ther any and whit trade or manufactory is car
•kd o-.i, ar.d particularly whether there be any
, Xtra ha/.ardous articles used, or usually depo
w:ed in the house, »r withiß the didance afore
iaid, and of what kind. ■
Uefpeiflir.g goedt in Houles, arehoufes, &c.
x. .V t cneial dcfcription of the building in
which Uiy art kept wiH bt expedled, fwnibr in
ali rel'>e£U,as totl.edargerfrom tire, with that
required for Insurance on the buildings them
2, \ description of she kinds jnd na.ure of
the "coods, whether in calks or other
oucued ; and whether displayed in whole
y. etc. or in U»e usual form for rctaihrj. And
li' ' itd go-.) e.iry ■<( iieoi 4v'.l kind, a ?"* ;r '1 fj
I e .ima'e of the vihie of each kind proposed io
lie intureri ; *>'il m the lait ui'iiute
nefi of defcripf'.OH i- not expelled.
;. ArtUlfs,>f the following k' nds »"■ deem- i
■ cd'ex,. d hiiirdous, though in vanous.de-ree.,
in whatever hwiHing'hty may be placed, vu.
' pitch, tar, turpentine, rolin, wax, tallow, .ml, r<l , C3
1 inflammablsfpirits, sulphur, hemp,fiax, cotton,
dry g»ods of an inflammable kind opened— carr ,
, Okils, ftiina ware or porcelain, efpeciady tin- foall
packed; Looking glaflet.jeweleryj and alio
own
ther articles mors than cominonly inflamma:ilc, ing <
I, orore than commonly liable to injury by i'ld- v.wi:
den removal Of by m»ifturcs, or particularly p or j
obnoxious t© theft on an alarm of fire,
r, Eetters poii paid, dire£l«d to tbe Secreta. yof
0 the Board of will be duly attended
d to. tVn order for i«d by the
d moans of paying the premium, wilt be imme
diately executed on tbe premium being paid. I!
i- the application noriiain an enqukjr only,' it will
t be.infwered.
e Br order of the Board,
i- EBENRZEK HAZARD, Sec'rj.
>" Office of the Insurance Company o/North )
America ; Pbilad. Feb. I, 1798. }
Feb. 14- lamt^
= - Bauk of Penn/ylvatiia,
t- September }&, 179^-
31 -f TTIIEUEAS he Houle at ptefeiu occupied
\y by the Bank of Pennfylvtnia was enter
to ed on the night of thefirft inflan:, l'ome vil
lains, who robbed tJ?e inftltution of sundry For
['] Bank Notes, amdngft which were the lollovv
ing po'ft notes of the Bai.k of Ne'i' i'qtlc, viz.
H , No 1 obi, dated ijd t f August, 179!!. liolli
A issued in favor of Scabring & T
Van XVj'ek, lor a» of t
No lc®3, dated nth of August, 1798, will
B .' 1 iffited in favor of Montgom- nexi
ery aad Newbold for 1250 carr
e, No 1006, »7th do. do. do. »000 I'"' 1
in ioo; , do. do. do. do. 2000 wh '
r- Toc.3, dc. do. do. do. aooa de f"
ig locio, do. do. do. do. aooo
to ioiCi a?th do. do. do. 2060 I
Is. iccif, do. do. do. do. 2000 fpir
nr ir»i, 30th do. do. do. JSOO ihei
1 lo' .j, do. do. do. do. 1000 reta
Aim fui.dry post notes of the Bank of Penn- ua
'y fylvania, da'ted 13d J-uly 1797, issued in favor an
°" of George Hughes," for one tfiouland dollars quo
each, an 1 fu .diy pod notes of faicl Bank, fam
ted Jj*b of/lily, 1797, ifii/ed in favor of Geo.
Hughes, for five 'hundred dollars each ind in
r ~ dorfed by him. * The public are hereby caution
ed against receiving the said notes, and a re
ward ef TWO THOUSAND DOLLARS is
p. hereby offered for th- discovery and ronviition j
l y of the villains who perpetrated or are concern
ed in (he said robbery, in addition to the reward
a- offered by the Governor of the Commonwealth to 1
x- in bis Proclamation off this day.
e- By order of the Board, i>ri
ne JONATHAN SMITH, calhier.
, e ——— r' »at
«t Mills, Portage, &c. n
TO LEASED POJI A TERM OF YEARS.
lie "P
e j ryo be leafed, for a term not Itfs than three, X
, v . i nor more than seven years, a V ALU ABLE be
he ifROPERTY at the Seneca-Falls, in the county of Bej
nn Onondlgo, Ind flato of New-York, on the Banks
ir- of the Seneca-river, two miles wcJ (*f the Cayuga- i n g
: w ferry, and eleven miles ealt of Geneva.
This sftabliftiinent coafitts of an excellent grift
ne mill, saw n.i'.l. dwelling house, hark, and a port
of age or carryir.y place, with between' thirty ani arr
,p. forty acre, of Land, under good improvement, and
as nruch moteiti the vicinity, as maybe retired A J
nf, for future improvement.
)U t The grift x.ii: hna handsome, ecw and well fin
e. ifhed building, of JO by 30 sett, 3 {lories high
, n - and with a run of excellent Butr flones
3r . and another ol l*fopn»' stones, of the bed quality M:
cc . —ar.d the most approved !>o*ilts, &c- calculated to '4
)n , .niak all the different qualities of flour for expor
tkl tatiort or rorhohieronlumptibii : It is acceflible by arr
ro . water from every part of the Cayuga lake and Se
neca-river, a« •well as from the Seneca-lake—and 2 1
cu _ from irs fitijation, commands a v«ryextenfive and 8 ]
ro . encreafing enftom : The flream on which it Hands,
-e • being the outlet of ihe Senec3-I dte, the mill cau firi
. ue never bt in want cf Water ; and a« it has been kept th<
en . working during the fevcrell feafor. of thelaltwin- be
Jne ter, it is not liable to bs impeded by froft :
ce . The saw mill is also new, situated on the fame [j e
ftrcam, n«w lurniihed with an ample stock of
•ter log', "f which a supply may at all times be pro
; f e . cured by lan 4or water, of the best quality :
ven The dwelling house is well calculated for the use
i- 3 y of the miller, is new, and Tufficiently laige : The
hall barn is about 40 feet square, and entirely new :
for The portage is j-4thsof a mils in length, along /
the Seneca-falls—over which were passed in the J
r-d lad yelr, nearly two hundred boats with their ne
1 li' contents ; this objeA is already produftive of a ho
handsome income, which mull be incrcafing and "a
will permanent : ■ f e(
iby Among the many advantages of thisfituation, ofl
I as mud be numbered the fertility ol the fun oundiug
in- country—being the b»ft improved part of the coun-
ipal ty of Onondaga—th® concentration of inter
the cosrfe by land and water, the Geneffee ftateroad
I palling through it, as well as all water carriage to 1
■>s. ' Geneva, and the counties of Ontario and Steuben ; Ei
'the ! which renders it a moll eligible Hand for a Store or in l
|; n „ ; Tavern—.The river and lakes abound in fifh and Ei
c ;* fowl, and the country with deer and other game
C lre j Besides the mills already erefled at this place, it al
■ ! Is calculated for any additional water works that is
j 1 may be fmind necessary—Fulling mill, batk mill pi
,"J tannery, forges, &c. may be ereited at a faiall ex
'l ! pence—lron ore may be brought in boats I rom the ed
Me " Cayuga lake ; and it is thought to abound in the tr
' neighborhood. vs
e The (lock on hand w : ll be fold to ths lc£Tce, and b(
ln d the cattl-, utensils, smith's forge, &c. may Defold 1
i'hat or ) et jhe premises. Fi
P ar " 1 If a purchase ihould offer for the whole or an er
the ' undivided part of ftie premises it will be fold. fr
and | For terms of sale or lease, apply to mr. Wil- fr
dos belmosMtnderse, at theSentca falls, or to the is
:s. fubferibvr, at ScheneflaJy.
how STEPHEN N. BAYARD. is
d so june 15 lawim q
fcof. Federal Mills,
ling, A DJOINING Georgetown, and the City of
a el- i\ Wafhingtop, will be offered at Public Sale,
ptir- ; on the loth day el September next, at the Union
oufe Tavein, if not previoufiy fold at Private sale.
i Thole millsin point of situation for bafinefs and ''
nild- na'ural advantages are generally admitted to be t 1
g or equal to any in America. The Merchant Mill is p
s et t a large bnrk house, eighty feet by fifty, aim ofl li
ithin new, in which are ere&cd four pair of Burr mill- «
am ] stones with elevators, hopperboys and bolting r
Iwel- cloths, tompletely finiflied and constructed in such b
w j, e . a manner that the whole of the mills may manu. h
. car _ failure flour at fhc fame rime. The country mill 1
which i» creeled niar the other, is entirely new, t
, ' a flrong (tone building, containing one pair of
, ° stones, and built in such a manner that the fecornl r
1 ore * pair may be put up with little cxpedce. This mill j
is conveniently finilhed, and calculated to carry on j
, Sc. «xtenfively, country wori, of which it gets a con-
] n ftant supply. There is belopging to the said mills
iar in acrts of land, the whole of which will be
1 that ( o |d w ith the mills.
hem- One third of the purchase money will be 1 equir- '
cd in sixty days from the day of sale, and I _>r the '
"e of balance a liberal credit will be given. Furthsr '
ago*, particulars will be mad.: known on the day ef sale. 1
rhoii , JOSEPH E. ROWLES,
And 1 Surviving partner of
JOSEPH E. ROWLES Is 1 Co.
Georgetown, ju'jr 13. 33~-3av,'U
«-« .
'i DUTY on CARRIAGES. Ai
;o
Notice is hereby given, Sfr '
1 . j '"{"'MAT agreeably to an ait of Congreisiof the
, | L United Ststi*s of America, patted at l'liila- Stall
dejphia ti)s iJJth Jay of May, 17961 laying du- to In
7' ties oil carriage* for the conveyance oi perfnns, and land;
the former ail* for that piwpofe—-1 hat : tweti
'' thrre (hail he levied, coilledcd and paid, upon ad .
carriages for the conveyauce of persons, which ! Apri
n " fcall be krpt by or for any person, for his or her | fi ve '
own use, or to Ist dutto hire, or for the convey- j c anl
C| ing «f paifengers, the several duties and rates f»l- j-j e p
d" towing, viz. dolls,
ly For and u;>on every conch ! 5 jp t j
upon every chariot 11 y er)
of npon every post chario- 11 pj an
ed upon every pell chaift 11 •
he nron> veryplnton, with or without top 9 v
• .fnic
ie- upon every coacnee y ,
If upoo other carriages, having.pawnel tie
.•,]! work u'rvovc, with blirads, glasses, >9 0 '
, or curtains J
u-pon four-wheel carriages, iiarvinfcS ot ™ f
frame polls and tops, with heels' 6 P' 0 '
lprings J
upon four-\vh' m carriages, with 1 . Flrt
wooden or ufirings 011 jacks J sons
upon curricles with tops wer
upon chalks wi'thflops 3 pric
upon chair> with tops 3 (eve
uponfulkies with tep- 3 don
upon other two wheel top carriages 3 j B g
lspon two »he;el carriages in t t
or iron springs i orv
r y For and upon all other two wheel carriages 2 c( | ;
J v " upon every soar wheeled carriage,")
12 • having trained pads at»d tops, > 2 1 ,
1 and reding upon wooden spars J ' .
The Collector ol the revenue ot the firft divifimi
21 of the firft survey of the diflrift of Pennfylvacia,
will attend daily until the 30th day of September
next, for the purpose of receiving the duties on '
carriages, at Germantown, on the Main llreet, a
Jit tie a"bove the sign of the King of Prufiia, of *
which all persons polTeffed of fach carriages are x ltt
desired to taklgfiotice. n
Notice is also given, !jjj
To fill retail dealers in wines and foreign diflilled l,
spirituous liquors, that licenies will be granted to
jhemone licence for carrying on the business of
retailing'of win:s in a left-quantity, or in less
in- uantities, than 30 gallons—and one lieence for ~,
ror arrying on the business of retailing spirituous Ii- '
ars quors in less quantities than twenty gallons, at the 0
da- fame time and at the fame place, by
eo. JAMES ASH, or <
j a Colleilor of tUc i£l division of the ift ' •
ou . Survey of thedifcriiSl of Pcuiu'ylvacia. 'he
rc . Office of lufpedlion at Germantbwn, "» «l»e
aid August, 1798. S I* 16
£T Every denomination of Stamps to be had . lor
l ° i n at said office. der
ard €r The Stamp Press is removed the
ihh to the Office of in Germantown, on the anc
Mai* • rect, a little aiove the liga of the King ol
l'rufTia,—where attendance will be given for the °*
awroiiimodaiion of those who wifli any inflroaivnts
stamped, on Tucfdays, Thufidays and SaturdEys > re^
ugrt?ta U CoT
xs. General Poft-Officc,
PROPOSALS fpr carrying .the mails »f the at»<
dnited States on the following routes will om
jLE be received at this office until tlu jotli day of a«
yof September next iiicluiire. tit
inlcs 1, From P. by Canaonftmrg, Walh- rej
J S a " ington, Weft-Liberty, Wheeling and Wills- ftx
town to Zaiies at the momh of Licking-creek, (us
on t.Ve Mufkirfgnm, e/limatcd 140 miles. Ui
Leave Pittfljurg every Friday at %P. M. and in
aD arrive it Zincs the next Monday by Bp. m. be"
. al ', fteturnins —Leave Zaoes Tuefday at 5 qu
lreu a. nj. and arrive at Pittlburg the next Friday by ha
U n 10 j. m. t>i
j , a. From Zancs, at (he mouth of Licking op
o ® es Creek on the Mnikinguin, by Chilicnthe and ex
Maffcy's to Mlyfvi'lle in Kentucky ; eftimited m
(j to . 140 miles. lh;
p or . Leave Zanes every Ttiefday at sa. m . and th
eby arrive at MiylVdte the next Friday by lo A. M. th
1 Se- Returning —Leave every Friday by i'al
•and IP. M. and arrive at next Monday by l'ai
and BP. M. la'
uids, The carriage as the mails to commence on the to
cau firft day of November next and continue until Iji
kept the firft day of O&ober jBOO. Payments will be
win- be made quarterly.
The usual penalties for delays and failures will in
ame [j e ftipulatcd in the contrail. Jh
pro-J°f e e h Habcrjham, £
Poji-Majier General.
eU fe Philadelphia. Tuly 13, 17.98. m&th6w
The Wants Employment,
long A YOUNG MAN, who has served a regu
, t [, e IX. lar apprenticeship to the mercantile bufi
their nefsinthis city, wiihes to engage in a Coiiuting
ol a house or offica, writes a good hand and tinder
; and stands accounts, can be well recommended ar.d
security Jtiven if required. Enquire at the '
tion, office of this Gazette.
idiug June it 3awtf
n ° t "": Bafkenridge—for lale
road TT ronfifts of 920 acres, altr.oft all of which is
je to JL a fine rich Meadow, (the reddcnce of the late
ben; Ecrl o£ Starling). It may be conveniently dixided tl
ire or into five (arms, four of which are bounded on the j,
1 and East by the river Paf»ick.
ame Th -re are on it a number of buildings, forming g
ce, it afquare of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house j]
1 that is a very convenient one afidja fnvlkxpence would "
mill put it in complete repair.
Ilex- The orchard coniiUs of 1500 fiiH-bearingengraf- si
mthe edAppleTrees—and there is on othar parts of laid
n the traA near 300oth«r Apple Tress—as also a great u
variety of other fruits,particularly Cherries of the c
:, and best and mod delicious kinds.
efold 1 Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and *-
ForiflTreae, that add to the beauty and eonveni
jr an ence of l!>c place. Us fituatiou is about 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth: 10 do. '
Wil- fr«m Morris-Town, and 12 from Springfield—lt t
:o the is wooded and watered.
To lave trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
ID. incalh, on delivery of the deeds. Plcafe to en
-2m quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Ch#fnut treet. "
cbsnary'i. eodtf
:^ al ° e f Patent Ploughs,
Union' 'T'O be fold for caffi by Joseph Salter at Atfion t
. 1 Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry—Jonathan _
:fs and Ilarker, Woodbury—and Jeffe Evans, Lumber- t
to be ton, Thofc who have used them give them the j
vlill is preferenee to any other kind, as tliey require ,
ilmoft 'ess team, break the ground better, are kept in t
•mill- mrder at less sxpence and are fold at a cheaper c
olting rate —the plan is much Amplified ami consists of
nfuch but one pipce of cast iron, with the handles md
manu. beam f( wood ; they may befixed with wrought
y mill
lays in<l cotiltert to be put 01 with screws and
r.ew, taken off at pleasure
air of Patent rights for vending with inftrailiona for ;
fccoiiil making them may be had liy applying to John (
lis null Ncwbold, or the fubferiber No. 212 North 1
rr y°n Front-llreet. 1
Anil!; Wh ° haS f° r S " !fi
Or to Lease far a term of tears,
A number of valuable trails of Land, weH
equir- situated for Mills, Iron iVorks or Farms, most-
Ejr the ly improved, lying chiefly in the county of H*r.-
urthsr tingdon ftat« of Pennsylvania. Those who may
»ffale. incline ta view them will please to apply to
John Qanaa cfo. near. Huntingdon,
of Claries Ntvibold.
t Co. July \y- aawtf i
IVr'U fl
I
an act , .
far th: ,reMtf the Refugees fr»m the Bntifh
MtvmJs cfl.an*!a and Not'.i-Scolia. .
_ 1> E W tnafted by the Senate and House
. ec * I# JLJ of Representatives of the United
■ States ef America, in Congress ajembled, That
■ to fatisfy the claims of certain persons c.aiming
1 lands Aider the rcfoliltions of Congrsf", of the
t twenty-third qf April, one thousand fevenhun
-1 drc:l and eighty-three, and the tmrieenth of
*' April, one thousand seven hundred and eighty- b"
r Uvf, as refugees from the Britiffi provinces of fp
1 Canada r.nd "Nova-Scotia, the Secretary lor die cic
' Department of War, be, and is hereby autho- to
'* rised and directed to give notice in ore or mor,? Wj
of the public papers of each of the States or -
1 Vermsnt, Maffiichufetfs, New-York, New
-1 Hampshire and Pennsylvania, to all persons hav- U
1 int* cHfiois tmder the said resolutions, to tranl- lot
' mit to the War-office, within two years alter ou
9 the paiftotfjf this acl, a jult and true account
Q ef their claims tp the bounty of Compels. .
Stc.'i. And it further en*S(d, 1 hat no ha
other pei sons (halt b. ? entitled to the benefit ot the «»
5 p'rovifions of this -\SI, .than thole of the follow- w
First, thole heads of families, and single per- th
sons, not members of ar.y luch families, who
3 were residents in one of the provinces afore/aid,
3 prior to the fourth day of July, one thousand.
3 I'eveß hundred and Seventy-fix, and who a'pan
-3 doned their settlements, in coiileque eeofhav
-3 iHg given aid to tlve t United Colonies 01* States, pr
j in tiie revolutionary War ttrejt-Briuift,
or with intention to give fiich a*J, and enntiuu- fit
% ed in the United.States, or.-in their trvicc, dur- an
ing the laid wlr, and did not return to re fide in V\
2 !the dominions of the king of Great-Britain, P<
prior to the twenty-fifth of November, Pi
• tliaiifiiid seven hundred ar.d eighty-three. Se- lo
' condly, the widows and Reirs of all such per
i fon# as were aflual refidentf»as asm efaid, who
a abandoned thrir fettlei»ents, as aforelaid, ind
} f died within the United States, or in their ler- ef
rc vice during the said war : and thirdly, all per- so
l'on". who were members of families at the time Co
of their coming into the United States, and who vs
during the war, entered into tkeir service. C
Sec. 3. And ie it further enafieJ, That the ca
to f proof of the several cirenmftances neceflary to w
entitle the applicants to the benefits of this a<fl,
may be taken before a judge of the fuprrtne ur D
dillritSl court of the United State?, or a judge
[ ie of the supreme *r luperior court, or the firft jui- -
tice or firft judge of the court c* common
or county cfltirtdi 'any State.
■ft ' See. AkA He H further enafted, Tha» at
a. !he expiratian of fittewi months from and after
the palling of this adl, and from time te. time
thereafter, it fhill be the duty of the Secretary
id - for the Department of War, to lay fu:k evi- ,
dence of claims as he may haite received, bc.«ie
■(J the Secretary and Comptroller of tne I reafury,
he and with them, pr-cced to examine the tefti-
Q [ mony, a«d give their judgment what quantity
of land'ought to be allowed to the "individual
, cs claimants, in proportion to the degree ot their
•s fervices, facrifices and in 1
Conlequence of their attachment to the caule of J
the United-'States ; allowing to those of the firft f
claf> a not exceeding one thoulandacrcs j 1
he a„d t(> the lail class, a quantity not exceeding J
'ill one hundred, making luch intermediate Claflfes I
of as the resolutions aUnrefaid, and diftributivejuf- 1
tit*, may, in their judgment require, anrl hufct
(li- report thereof, to Congress. And in cafe any
ils- such claimant fnall have sustained fu,ch loflis and
ik, lufferiiigs, or performed such services lor the ■
United'Stites, tliat he cannot juftfy be clalTed
nd in any one genera) clifs, a separate report
be made of his circumstances, together with the
t5 quantity of Itidjl that outjht to be allowed him, (
by havioi; reference to the foregoing ratio : Pro- ,
■aided, tl.at in considering what compeafitidn ,
ng opght to be made iiy virtue of this ail, all grants ,
nd except military grants, which may have been
red made by tlie United Slates, or individual _
(hall Tie eonllrlered at the jujt value thereof at
nd the time the ftttie were made, refpeiflively. ei-
M. ther in whole or in part, as the cafe m;ry be, 1
by fatisfaiflion to thofe'wl'l9 mav have received the
by fame: Provided also, that no claim und«r this
law, shall be assignable tißtil after report made
the to Congress, as aforefaid, and until the said
itil lands be granted to the persons entitled to the
vill benefit of this afl.
See. 5. Beit further enabled, Th«t all claims
vill in virtue of laid resolutions of Congress, which
(hall not be exhibited as aforefaid, wuhin the
time by this a<Sl limited, (hall forever thereafter
be barred.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives
TH : JEFFERSON,
Vice-Prejident of the United States,
u Q. and Prejident of the Senate.
in* Approved, 7, 1798.
[t ° JOHN ADAMS,
lr ( j Prefidenl ps the United States.
tl t . Depofittd among the Roils in the office of the
Department cf State,
f * Timothy ing,
Secretary of State.
C 5" Purfiuvt to the above Aft, Vo
ided tice is hereby given to all perfcns hav
t!ic ing claims lihder tlicrefolutions of Con
iing gvels, of the 23d of April, 1783, and
the 131 it of April, 1785, to tranfmitto
the War-Offi<;e within two years after
the pafilng of the laid A£i, viz. the 7th
Tcat day of April, 1798, a just and true ac
[the count of their cairns to the bounty of
and Congress.
In the proof of Claims, a ftri'ft atten
-3<lo-' tion mull: be paid to the rccjuilkions of
—it the ad and 3d Sections of the Aft.
acre * JAMES M'IIENRY,
en- Secretary of IVar.
July 19 jjiivv6w
reet. AURORA OFFICE,
Oaoler 10, 1798.
Reports having been circulated
'fj 0n that THE AURORA was not to be re-published. j
than —Tile public -re hereby refpeiflfully inlormed j
iber- th.it the want of hands alone has prevented its re- ]
i the publication several days ago; but that such ar
[uire rangementß arc now making as will afTere the ap
't in ptarance of the paper in the course of the prtfent,
aper or the firft week of the next month,
lis of § 8t
ught Mails for South-Carolina Ss 3 Georgia,
a«d "D AOKETS are now provided far carrying the
A Public ms,i!sby water between Philadelphia
is for ' alK ' Charleston. J'hey will leave t*.iladelpbia
John 011 Friday's. Thepoft by land will be cantinu
[orth twice a week ur.til an experiment ii made in
rtgard to the expedition and regularity of the
packets. If any person chuTes to have their
letters f«nt by l.ind only, thry will please to
weH w ''te the word Ijsnd upon letters : olher
yjoft. wife they will be lint bv that conveyance which
Iter- «";M Sdl start after yie Utters arc left in the
„,y poft-t-flice.
y to "Jofepb Habcrjham,
Pcjl-Majlei Ceiru rl.
Phil&fltltii!*. Jivvut} j?, 1758. 6
vLf A
ANOTHER SIRONG PROOF
Of the great aad unparalleled efficay of
Dr. CHURQH's COUGH DROPS,
Ir the Curs of
Coßgbs, Colds, Asthmas & Consumptions,
New-rari, July 10, 1798,
To Ua. Church,
. Sir,
For upwards of Twelve rears, I hive la
. 1 bored under a feverc Cough, shortness of breath
f fpiuing of matter from ray lungs and often of
: clotted tilood, till at length luas so reduced a 3
. to be un.*ble to walk acrof3 my roem, and ow
t. ing t<> tne yi' Itnce of my cough and Uie ffiort
[' ntls ofbrsati could get no relt day or night.-,
- Hearing; of your excellent medicine, t the Cough.
. Drops f I procured a' bottle ; I took a dole as
soon as i got it, from which I found iniUntane
r (his relief , and by continuing it for three days,"
t I bid's God lam reftpred to perfeft health. As
I Believe "you to have been the inflnimeijt jfl.thc
» hinds or j&fsTng 1 rtiulV :
e intreat you to pyblifc this fer the benefit of any
. who may be in my situation, as lam confident
it is one of the belt medicines in the world tor
•- thoie complaints.
o I am, Sir, yoip grateful servant'
I, NICHOLAS ST AGO,
d Little Robinson-street.
CHURCH'S COUGH DROPS,
Are prepared and fold by the.lnventor and
proprietor, Dr CHURCH, at his Difpgnfary,
1, Walhington-flreet, New-York, and at bis of/
1- sice, No 1, South Tbird-Ureet, Philadelphia.
■- and fold by appointment at Mr Weednun's jig
II Wiiliam-ltreet, and StilwefJ S; Det'oreft, i6t
1, Pearl-nreet, New-York. Maticius, Albany,
e Price, Baltimore, Thomas, AlexanJ. ia, Wil-'
!- I'oh, Wilmington, &c. &c, >
O }} S E R r E,
0 As a counterfeit preparation of this niedicine'
d hjs been industriously circulated through some
- ef the principal cities in the United States, per
- lons are to purclufe them of such per.
1 e ions only ai have Dr Church's anpomtment for
o vending the fame. Powers, Joughkeepfie—
Chappel, Head of Elk-t— Bond and Co. New
e caflle—Heinitlh, Lancaller—B!auvelt> Brunf
-0 wick (If. J.) Gordon, Trtntoft, &c.
I, *Patients letter's (Port paid) addrclTird to
ir Dr Church, New.York, duly attended to.
august 20 aaw^w
" This Day Published,
2t fa's at the Office of the Editor, No.
119 Chcfnut-flrect,
f Price I-%th of a Dollar,)
A N ORATION,
,j_ Pronounced July 4,1798,
re At ihereqiiea of the Inhabitants of the Town of
y HUSTON, ?n commemoration of the anni
jjl verlary of American Independence.
ty By JostJH garner.
ial " The ip roads upon our public liberty, call
•ir for reparation—The wrongs we have^iftaiqed,
; B c<«ll for—Justice. '1 hat Reparation and that
ot Ju ft ice, may yet be obtained, by Union, Spirit,
and Firmne:s But to divide and conquer was
s . the maxim of the WeVil in the garden of Eden,
n g and to disunite and enslave hath been the princi
fcj pie of all nis votaries Iran that period to th«
,f. present."
[(J fib setvttffans on tf>e Boston Port-Bill, &c.p. 78
ny Of the late J. Quincy, jun.
nd anc'ift 11
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
ill Juki 57, 1798.
he M9 T,CE IS HERgBY GIVEN, That by vir
-1\ tu« of an ail, passed dt)ring the prafent fef
' fion «f Congress, so much of the adt cntituled
" " An Aft making further provision fortliefup
" P ° rt cf P llhlic crC(i " : . a "d for the redemption
" of the public debt"—patted the third of
;eil Ma;ch, one thousand seven hundred and Binety
tS ' five, is bars from fcttleuieut or alltsvrar-tc,
at Certificates, commonly called I.oan Office and
el " final fetMenient Certificates, and Indents of In
> 1 fcrefls, is suspended until the twelfth day o
;he ]une, which will be in the year one thousand seven
his hundred and ninety nip 3.
Ide That on the liquidation and settlement of the
aid fald Certificates, and Indents of Interest, tt the
the Treasury, the Creditors wiil be entitled to receive
Certificates of funded Three Per Cent. Stcckequal'
inns to the amount of the said Indents, and the arrearr 1
fch ages of interest due on their said Certificate!, prior
the to the fiffi. day of Janu-ry one thoufund fcven
•t er hundred and ninety one.
That the principal sums of the Old I.oan Office
and final fe'ttlenijent Certificates, with the interest
s thereon, lincc the firft day ot January, one thou
fund seven hundred and ninety one, willbedif
charged after liquidation at the Treasury, by the
paymant of interaft and reimburfiiiHent of priti#-
pal, equal to the fur« 9 which would hove lieon
payable thereon,-if the said Certificates had been
lubferibed, pursuant to the Aits making provilion,
' for the debts of the United States, contracted dur
-1 e ing the late war, and by the payment of other
funis, equal to the market value of the remaining
Stock, which would have been created by fucU
'■ fublciiptions asaforefaid, which market value will
be determined by the Comptrofir-r of theTreafury.
,V OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Sierttury tf the Trebji/ry.
i" nt - " V--T
3n ; TO BE SOLD,
"Id rpHjj t j me c f an indented Dutch Servant HOY,
ttO JL who has ten years to fcrve. Jle has had the
small pox and measles, is active, hearty and
and fit for house v/t rk in town or country. lior
Jth further information, enquire of the printer,
ac- "gmt 4 '
of HEALTH OFFICE.
PhilaQtCfbia, jft May. 1798.
Extract of an aft to alter and amend the HcaltK
of Laws of this Commonwealth, pafled 41k
179&
Se6t S- A " ur£ '- er e nafled by the au
£jL thority afofefaid. That every houle»
keey#-r within the city of Philadelphia, thjs town
w {hips of the Northern Liberties and
and diltrift of bouthwark, within a mils of the li
mits of the city, taking ill boarders arriving by sea.
j. or by land, from any foreign port or place, and ha
red v ' n g iul v boardsr in hisor her family, who (hall be
' , taken fn,k of any difealc \vh itfoever, between the
nca ; 1 firfi. day of May and the fiift. day of November in,
med any year, wi:hiu twenty dayj nest after such hoar
-8 re " der {hall coaie to lodge in hi< or her house, shall
1 ar- -vnthin 24 hours next after the knowledge of such
: 8 P" iicknefs. refort at th? Health.Office of the
lenl ' name of such sick perfoe, the trr.ie of his or her ar
rival at the house and of his or her being taken sick.
_ and of the name and pl:cc of abode of such house
- keeper; whereupon the I'hyficiar. of the Kcitth
> ' Office thall forthwith visit the patient, and repore
!? l '| e to the office his opinion of the nature of such dif
pliia Ci l" S) that rncafures may be taken to prevent the
pbta spreading of the infefiion ; and if any honfekeeper
"nil- fiiail neglciil to give information in the mannerand
le in within the time aforcfaid, and shall be thereof con
ihe viiSed, in any court of criminal jurisdiction within
their this ConiiuouwealjJv upon indiJime; tby ycrdiit
!fc to or confefiion, he or flie fliall lortcit and pay a finei
her- to the ufc ot the said hospital, not iffs than twenty
'hich dollars, ttijtr more than one hundred dollars, to be
1 the iu'ipofnd at the uifcretion of the court,according to
thecircumftances of greater or less aggravation at
tending each particular cafe.
By erde/oithe of Heilth,
WM.AI.LEN, Health Officer,
§ W,-.'3m of the Port of PhtUdclphia.
I