AND Philadelphia Daily Aimrtiseh
UMBER 1570.J
'HE GAZETTE 6F THE UNITED STATES
DIRECTIONS,
_ mesc.irs the vntow fivbk voir
Bfcfi I*AL F.NS in PHIIADHtrarA.
'' 'reffed particularly to those citizens -whose
■cumfiances will not permit them to comply
*' itb the recommendations of the Managers
: the Marine and City Hsfpitals.
HE Fever which at this time prevails
ir unfortunate city and suburbs, is the
fame in kind as that which prevailed in
_ 3 and 1707, occafloned by imported |
lagion, and was introduced into it tor
t of efficient health laws, and the pro
egulation of quarantines ; as I propose
lake appear in a Future paper,
his contagion however appears, from j
erousobiervatiotis, and the most authen
ails, tojbe capable of producing fever,
under particuihr circumstances : These
jmftances, re'roved or avoided, thecon
a Son becomes inactive and harmless.
rhis fever had not been observed to exist
■hiladeiphia for more tha-i thirty years
re the year 1793, and has never been |
i jm to exilt in the winter season in this
ite ; differing in this refpeft, from r
: fevers thijt are bre i'in jails,
itala and prison (hips ; but perfedtly re- >
ling the plagues which have been i> tro- ;
d at difteient times into different mari
t towr.s it) Europe from certain parts of
tea, and the Tur.ki(li dominions in Eu
borflering upon Asia.
■he circumstances which render the con
foil of the Yellow Fever active and favcr
fcreading or becoming epidemic, appear
I fee, hot, rarified a< d (lagnant, or confi
tfcir, more especially when replete and al
in its salutary quality by puirid exha
ftns from dead vegetable and aninvslfub
Mces. Under the tccited circumstances
majority of thoft: who approach very
£ to, or comt in contaft with the sick, so
to reieive the exhalations emitted by the
gigs or (kiri, become in the course of a few
in, most commonly on the fifth or sixth
V after such exposure, iiffefted with the
toe Jtind of fever , but as all that approa< h
Siin the fame distance to the sick do not
ifi wards take the disease though they have
lifived the contagious particles into their
ilies, it implies that their constitutions are
* difpefed to favour its operation, that is,
lit they are poffefled of a power to refill
Sadtion or itnpreffion, or that the conta-
Jbn mixing with the fluids in the (tomach,
Twith tkofe in the arteries passes out again,
■K some of the *fual ticeieiioiis.
;.i|fhe circuudances which, in moo cases,
jifcear to give effeft to the contagion, so as
p produce fever, after it has been received
itp the circulation through the medium of
he (tomach, lungs or skin, appear to be
K as hare the power of inducing sudden
Jt-jjeat debility in the several funftiors of
h(f body, and consequent fp-ifm or conftric.
of the extreme v<=4Tels, &c.
■knionu the chief of these, may be reck
fudden exposure to gold, after great
SAigue, or after being greatly heated by ex
j&fe and exposure to the fchorching rays
Hhe fun. (
Mintemperaßce, fu«ceeded by abstinence,
tpjucut blood letting, purging, fading,
tad constant terror or dread of the disease,
latre all a similar effeft. Whereas moder-
W and rcfrelhing exercise, the temperate
of such nourishing food as has no ten
icy to itimulateor influence, and rather
preserve the bowels laxative than other
e, and the temperate use of diluted fer
nted liquors, particularly found bottled
rter and claret, have the most filutary
•ft in preventing the operation of the
.tagion, and alfoof rendering the disease
more manageable by the phyfi-
Ji, when it d es a tack, than when it oc
rs in those previously debilitated.
The air in the open streets, I believe,
irer becomes fufficiently contaminated by
:lic contagious particles (let the patieots
g:ever so numeious in the houses) to com
municate the disease to any person walking
fc the middle of the street, or even on the
igVements, when the wind blows from the
»ppofite fide. This i« a faft not only con
iinud by the rbfervations of the judicious
ird accurate Dr. Ruffel, in his account of a
ttjililtntial fever at Aleppo, and by all the
iyficians that have publithed an account of
l' disease, as it has appeared in disser
t parts rf Europe, but is alfo»eftabli(hed
the events of last year, and by those of
93-
In the year 1793, all the prisoners in the
I of Philadelphia, amounti- g to more than
50 ; the pensioners in the alms-house; and
e patients in the Pennsylvania hospital, ef'-
ptd the disease, owing to the precaution
preventing the adrniflion of any sick or
fpicious person, its well as every infefted
licle into those places.
All the families, also, that remained in
le city, amf confined themselves and their
[imeflics ftriftty to their own houses, ar.d
ifftrcd ro sick person, one lately
covered from tbe disorder, or any material
om an infefted house, to come near them ;
id employed some trusty perfpn to furniih
em wiih rtiarketing-and other necessaries
om fourpes free from infeftion,, escaped the
fcafe without exception. This was a'fo
be cafe w'th all the farmers {hat attended
pe market, that cautiously avoided sleeping
!, or going into any of the Chambers of
ie tavtrns or [itaces where they put up
Ilia could ncst have been the cafe if the
rhole atmofphtre ot the city had been taict-
or replete with noxious exhalations.
By observing the preceding rul(es and
[<tdeira
PHILADELPHIA:
cautions, therefore, those inhabitants who
cannot pn«.>ir« a retreat in the country,
may certainly preserve t£rml< ves from t;;k
itg the fever.
these arc cnnfolotary fafts, drawn from
experienced observers ; and they are fafts
that maybe fitly oppofed'to the popular
notions of contagion, so apt to affeft the
imagination in momenta of condernation
and dismay.
Before I conclude, I think it proper to
add, that I have frequently leen perfens,
whose office it is to attend on the sick, es
cape the disease in large airy apartments,
without obftrving any precaution at all; hut
have feldiom observed this to be the cafe in
small confined places unfavourable for v,en
lilatiou, especially where the circumdances
of the patient, would not admit of daily
changes of the body li ien. Clean
liness, daily changes of apparel, and free
ventilation appear, therefore, to be essential
for preventing the contagious asd malignant
effefts of tl.e fever.
Perhaps if Phyfictans and Nurses were
studiously to guasd against breathing when
near the patient, and were never to swallow
their saliva-; (by which it is probable the con
' tagion is more frequently conveyed into the
body than by an* 1 other means) were care
ful to rince their mouths with cold water
and v negar, brandy and water or wine, and
frequently to chew some agreeable aromatic
substance; were .never to approach the lick
with atvemptyftomach,and were to rub half a
drachm or a drachm of mercurial ointment
upon 'heir limba every night till it occasion
ed tendewiefs of the mouth, it would pre
vent the cont.gion from operating, or at
lead Wnder the difeufe muck more mild and
manageable when it did occur.
A opinions require fafte, and not names
for their I (hall conceal mine under
the signature of
MENTOR.
The above was intendejlfoF the Gazette
of September fifth, but was unavoidably polt
poned.
BY~THIS DAY'S MAIL.
BOSTON, September 8.
The President of the Unfted States, we
are told,has letters from Mr. Gerry, inform
ing of the arrival of the Sophia ; and that
he (hould take advantage crher being there
to retu li home.
The Hod. Mr. Dawfon, Representative
from Virgiuia is on a visit to this metropolis
THEnr*VSB- ,
The whole number nowfick, 27, of whom
are on the recovery, 12. Since the last re
turn on the sth intf. have died NONE.
By order of the Selectmen,
WILLIAM COOPER, Town Clerk.
SALEM, (Mass.) Sept. 7.
We are allured that there is good ground
to believe- that the. government (hip, for
which a fubfeription has been begun in this
town, will finally grow to a good stout fri
gate.
On Monday last, arrived the (hip Five
Brothers of Bolton, William Brown, matter,
116 days from Batavia- Sailed in company
with the (hip Ganges, LangfoVd of New-
York. L?ft, at Batavia, (hip Maryland,
Beard, of Baltimore ; (hip Orion, Cunning
ham of E,pfton ; (hip Eliza, Stewart, of
New York- The Fref eh frigates, La Fort
and La Virtue, at St. Chamara, 40 leagues
East of Batavia ; had loft while at Batavia,
great part of their crews, and the troops
they landed were growing thin daily.—Died
at Batavia, 20th April, capt. Merchant of
the .(hip Indoftan of 1 hiladeiphia. The Five
Brothers left St. Helena the 18 th July—
was informed by Gov. Brooks that the I(1 r :
of France was iu a distressed (ituation since
the (laves had got their liberty ; that the in
habitants had made repeated applications to
admiral Christian for protection. Heard
there were a number of Americans condem
ned at the Cape and others waiting for trial.
Spoke in lat. 27, 30, long. 49, 30, fchr.
— : —, Wm. Applcton, days fro.m Ports
mouth. Same day spoke ship Jefferfon of
Kerinebeck.
Yesterday eapt. George Ropes, of this
town, returned to his family after an
of several months. His capture by the
French, the recovery of his vessel, his re
capture, and the savage treatment he reviv
ed in revenge forbis bravery, have been here
tofore related. His vessel and cargo (a mere
matter of course) have finally been condem
ned, and he came home in the Ketch Diana,
of Gloucester, W. Tngtrfoll, mailer, 23
days from St Domingo, where he left the
following vessels : Ship Favourite, Taylor
fon, supercargo of Fredericklburgh, to fail
in 10 days for Charleston ; brig gen. War
ren, Rice, of Boda'ri,„brought in for adju
dication ; brig Star, Loring, of New-York,
fr.br. Swfft, Pile, of Pftih.delphia, f®r Po.-
to Rico ; fchr Eleaflor, of and for Balti
more ; fchr. Ek-anor of and for Baltimore ;
fchr. Regulator, Thomson, of and for N.
London, bought his veflel in ; capt Shep
ard of Bolton, whose vessel is Condemned ;
eapt. Smith of Norfolk, who was taken,
but his vessel not being valuable, they burnt
at Sea.
PORTSMOUTH, September 4. "
Sur.day arrived brig Felicity, capt. Brown
from Ellino e. July 13, 5 leagues N. W.
of Scotland, spoke fch. Phoenix, 38 days
front Boston for Hamburgh, S. Gaits, mas
ter, all well—Same day arrived (hip Pacific
32 days from St. Kitt's ; (ailed from St.
Vincent * under c?a\ay,-Ml tajecward an
By John FennO, N°' 119 Cbefnut Street.
' THURSDAY EVENING, S
was captured by a French privateer on the
23d July, who after coming along fide con
tinued jring crape (hot and musket halls ih
to the Hup, hut happily did little dam<«g« »
took out the. captain Perkins Salter, tnd j
our hands ; on the 24th was retaken by the
Briti(j» floqp of war Favourite and carried
into St. Kitts.
NEW-YORK, September 12.
At all the ports of St Domingo, fays a
Bermuda paper, thcltariteft distress is ex
perienced for the want of flour and provi
sions.
It is generally said, in St. Domingo, that
in cafe of a rupture between France and
America, T uiffant will foUcit an alliance
with the United States.—Thus fays the
above paper.
r '
DEATHS.
On Monday evening after very (hort ill
ness, died Mr. '1 homas Lake, a native of
England.
Yesterday morning Mrs Todd, wife of
David Tod 3, ef the house of Todd and
Seymour, merchants of this city.
At Belle-vue Hospital, on Monday the
2d inil. of the prevailing fever, Mr. Wilit
amCropp. aa old &much refpeftcd printer.
B irial in this city, fw 24 hours ending
the day bofore yederday—Adults 34 —30
of the prevailing fever.
Particulars of the iofs of the brig Dolly.
At sea, en hoard the brig Dolly, at II P. Nl. §n
TburfJay the ftb September.
Having the forefail and fore topfai! set,
the wind blowing gentle breezes from tbe
S. S- W. tvith much lightning, 5 of the
seamen on the topsail yard handing the fail,
a sudden (hock of lightning came and in less
than half a minute a sudden gust of wind,
which laid the vessel's mads and yardi in the
water. —The fsamen on the topsail yards
came down the rigging head downwards to
tbe keel of the vessel, when immediately we
cut away the weather fore and main (hrouds,
bat all to no purpofe—(he would not reco
ver Having neither ax nor saw to cut a
way the mads, she filled instantly, having
about 3 or 4 feet of her upper fide above
water.—Same time blowing a heavy gale,
with rain and lightning, and the sea very
high breaking over us, that we scarcely
could hold fait by het fore and main chains ;
—meantime our long boat was filled with
water, our small boat was turned bottom
upwards, and having nothing but death be
fffrc ottr fomv of -tU« ftramcn ilirtir
themselves among the wreck in the water,
to endeavor to secure our boats and get the
water out of them ; When, after many hea
vy druggies, we got the small boas upset;
then we hauled the long boat, filled with
water, over the main-mad.- which was car
ried away by the deck, by which means a-
J bout one fourth of the water came ont of
her, and by the afli (lance of an empty bar
rel, we got her almost dry, and to our ?f
---tonifliment found htfr staved, and so leaky
that one hand was obliged to throw out the
water constantly for fear of finking.—We
then had 110 other resource than to jump in
to the boat, and ride with the utmost dan
ger by 6 fathoms of the main (heet, by the
(tern, waiting till day, if wecofrd, to pro
cure some bread or water, oars or fails, for
our Iwat to sheer for the land : but to our
sorrow, the wreofc came round before the
wind, which brought us under her bow,
and having no rope npr place to take hold
of, we with one consent chose rather to ri(k
ourselves to the mercy of the Supreme Be
ing in our le-aky boats, (nine foul's in num.
ber) with one ©ar and boat's malt, having
neither bread nor water, nor any profpedt
of getting any from the wreck. The sea
being very high-and blowing a heavy gale,
the malts and bovfprit hcing all to pieces,
and the hull going to (hatters, we bore away
before the sea, expefting every wave to
swallow us up, until 3 in the morning, when
the 1 violence of the gale aba.ted. Then we
took our (hirts from our bodies, and sewed
therr\ with ropeyarns, and fixed them to the
mast, intending to fleer for Long Island,
in cafe we did not fall in with some vessel.
Day-light coming on, and the weather be
ing calm, with a piece of the bottom board
of the boat lashed to the mast, we could
row two oars towards the N. W. at the rate
of 2 miles an hour ; rowed and failed alter
nately ; but scarcely could make any way
through theVater for the space of 35 hours
from the wreck. On the Bth Sept. at 7
o'clock A. M. we saw a fail to the weft ward
of us, distant about 5 leagues, all becalmed
—This fight opurated like a cordial to our
fpiriti. and we rowed with all the eagerness
ai|d strength we bad, relieving each other ;
and at 10 A. M. came on board the sloop
Aurora, from Nassau in the island of Pro
vidence, bound to New-York, Brad
ley mailer, where we were received with the
great*(t friendfhip kindness by the whole
crew. Thev offered us every thing we flood
jn need of; we being altrtofl dead with hun
ger, hard (hip, and fatigue* and having little
hopes of life
N. B. When we wer-e a mile or two from
the sloop Aurora, they were in fufper.ee a
bout us. we having a red and blue handker
chief hoisted to a few pieces of plank la(hed
together for a signal of didrefs, for fear of
the wind increasing before we could teach
them. They got all their muskets, blun
derbusses, and swords in readiness to defend
themf Ives, from u«, thinking we were a
French row boat,having two parts of French
colours hoitted ; and when within a small
quarter of a mile from the sloop, they fir.cd
PTEMBER 13, 1798.
a mu(ket. We flopped lowing, feeing them,
all prepared to engage us. They then hailed
us what boat -*ye vyerf } to which we scarce
ly gave an answer, so muck.*:or our hearts
refoiced at the u expefttd interpofiuon of
Divise Providence in bur favour.
NORFOLi? Sept. 6.
OnTuefday ar ived the Swedi(h schooner
Betsey, capt. Bland, 18 days from St. Tho
mas's. On the ?7fh Aug. in lat. 28 24,
long. 70 30, fell in with the frhoon?r fler
culen, of BoftoH, that had been taken by a
French privateer, and retaken by the captain
and crew 24 hours after ; they tjad the pri- '
vateer's n?en confined on board.
Yesterday arrived the schooner Llfoin,
capt: Drummond, freth Havanna, which
he left on 19th Angtrtl, in company \Vith
6j fail cf Anj.-ricarifl, under convoy of the '
(hip Elisn, capt. Morrifou, of Charkftori,
carrying 16 guns and 75 men; the (hip
Fanny, Wi'mati, of Salem, with 16
60 ntef; and the brig George, Grigg, of
New-York, with 10 guns, and 35 men.
I Among the fleet were the schooner Friends,
Strand, and (loop Petei (burg Packet, Whit
field, bound to this port.
On the 26th August; in lat. 30, long,
79, fell in with the British Frigate Prevoy
ante, capt. Weymifs. who <?j>tured two
American (fuppOfed to be the brig
William, Simkitts, of fhiladelphia, and'orig
Freems'on, Small, of Boston,) one Daniffi
(hip, and a Dani(h schooner.
We learn by this arrival, that Mr. Haw
ley, American consul nt the Havanna, had
received pofitivr accounts that orders,have
been i(Tiled by the French government to
capture, turn or deflrty all American vessels
indifcriminattly.
Extraß of a letter, received per alove fchootter,
dated Jug. 17.
On the 12th, a Sp#ni(h packet arrived
from Old Spa it ; fine* which the most re
fpeftable people here are of opinion that ne
gociations are pending between Spain and
England ; their advices by this Vessel hare
given rife to the conjecture.
The U. S. frigate Cotiftellation, and Bal
timore (loop of war, le r t our Capes yester
day, with a fleet of twenty.seven fail of A
mericans under their convoy.
Sept. 8. V
The U. S. frigate Copftitution, captain
Nicholfon, was left last Monday in lat. 35,
40, long. 74, (leering S. in chace of a vessel.
Xse<Eta3ette.
PHIL AD EL PHI A ,
THURSDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 13.
—"
DONATIONS,
Received at the Tents, near Schuylkill, for (he _
use of the Poor.
September' 12.
Cash 442 dollars, from our fellow citizens
at present in Lancaster, as follows :
Chriftophc Mardial IQP dollars
Sarpusl Hays 5Q
Benjamin Homer 30
Thomas Clifford 3°
John Carrell 3P
Peter \V Gallaudet 30
Jacob Parke 20
Simon and Hyman Gratz 20
Solomon Gottlhalkfon, 15
John Redman foxe Jo
John Burchan to
Joftpb Hutchins 12
J'hn Riidell 10
Roger Flahavan IO
Hugh M'Culloiih * 10
Ebenezer Branham 10
Peter Thompson 10
W. YVclkie , 5
Mrs. Mary Rhe? 5 ,
Jacob Dietrick 3
M. A. Getting 1
Mrs. Eftfr Waters 20
Eight quarters of mutton, weight iso lb.
from Mr. Neiary
A quantity of potatoes, cabbages and ap
ples, from Mr- John Doualdfon
Eighteen cabbages from Mr. Green
Nine Sheep, a quantity of rye and wheat
flour, dried beef and bacon, potatoes,
and T dollar 50 cents, from Mfffrs Pratt,
Eaches, Bittle, Smcdley, Davis, Hoops.
Cormiialt, jur.. MittHatf, Afli, Roge«»,
Keen, Reed, Verdrcece, Matlack, Jonas,
Hoffman, Henderfon,* Woolley, [. Gar
rett, B. Garretr, Heck- and Moore of
New Garden Chelter County.
Four quarters of mutton, a large quantity
of vegetables, a balket ot bread and se
veral o-allons milk, from Richard Peters,
Esq. °
Two fh?ep, eight quarters of mutton, two
reading pigs, nine bags of rye and one
of Indian meal, two pair of fowls, some
sal- pork, drie>! beef, potatoes, fqua(hes,
one cheese and 23lbs. cf butter, collefted
from., the inhabitants ps Willetftown
townlhip, Cheller oounty, by Mr. Cabel
Man.
Three barrels flour, and two barrels pork
frojn Mr. Thomas \V. Armat.
By of the Committee.
PETER MEIRCKEN,
Sept. 13. Chairman.
BURIALS iu the City and Hospi
tal burying grounds, tor the 24 hours, end
ing yeftevtTay at raoc-r- Adults, 6j—Chil
dren 4 6<
, [VOLOME XIV.
. CITY HOSPITAL REPORT.
so* s err km nut 12 .
t
admitted,
W«»h. Sutunton > Benjamin Joiki
I.udwig S»yd:r Mary Carter '
Henry H obi f;wi • samntl Bedford.
M'Quirc JameS Crawford
David Mtevin J. M»L#Whlin
John Watch Sarah Waadle
Ann Robefan SaraU Woodfide
Thomas White Charlotte Beam.
DIED—TEN.
DISCHA RGED - TH REE.
Remaining in the Hospital of whora
are on the recovery.
Interred in the Hospital Ground,
; From City Hospital „ 10
City and Liberties 18
1
Total 28
PHILIP S. PHY SICK.
Christopher Darrah, Steward.
By order of the Board of Manager."!.
WILLIAM JONES, President.
Attest—Timothy Paxso.n, Clerk.
EIGHTY FIVE new cases of the pre
vailing fever, reported by 20 Physicians, for
the last 24 hours. •
DIED— On Tuefday,at Beggars Town,
of the prevailing fever, Mrs. MajlV Qu iy,
wife of Mr. At.drew Qnin of this city.
disorder, Mr. George Moser.
laft nijjht, Mr. James Thompo^,
of the Indian Queen Inn, Fourth-Itrcet.
DONATIONS,
Received at the. encampment at Matter's
place, for the nfe of the poor.
Sept. 11. From Gen Jacob Morgan, a large
ioad of Straw.
Sept. 12. Mr Jerem' th Qnickfall, 9 bush
els p6tatocs, 1-2 dospp:es, a small load
of ttraw and I chnru ot buttermi k.
Tench Coxe, Esq. th'Jum of/io d< ;
Petes Paris, Esq. a qua'tity of excellent v
tatoes, straw and onions.
Jonathan Wilii/fns, Esq. a load of straw.
John De Brahm, a load of (haw.
Win. Geife, a-bbl. cyder ■ quartity of po
tatoes, cabbage, ajppies,pu«;pk*ti3, iqunfti
'«s and peppers.
Robert & David Evans, one thousand feet
ef whit; nine boards.
, r / hn Ins keep, ~j
j . lei/ton, > Committe.
Isaac Morris, J
A London paper of Sunday T'.uv 15 £irs t
the new duties on import and exports take
place from and after Friday last ; and no
yctjel will be- permitted to fail for. a foreign
port without convoy ; if they do the in.
iurance will be void, and (he Vessel be liab'e
to a heavy penalty. -We iindorftand the
Britilh manufaftured goods, all of cotton,
jr? exempt from the duty of 10s. per cent,
on exportation ; all other goods must pay
it when {hipped. The followirg newdutiea
arp payable on exportation :—Brandy,
pfr gallon 5 Geneva, ditto; Yarn, 3s.
per ioolbs; Clovirf.-ed. 2s. 3d. per ii2lbs.
Rajjs, 13s. 3d. per ton ; Flax undreffcd,
2is. ditto 5 Hereip ditto ics. 3d. ditto;
Timber, Deals, 'See. 31. per cent, on the
yqlue ; Iron 109. lod. per ton ; Madeira
W}ne,"l6s. 6d. per ton; Por ugai ditto,
265. ditto ; Spanish ditto, 325. ditto ; Rhec
ifh ditto, 78s. ditto.
The new druies on sugar took place from
the 5111 inft. and such has been thedifpatch
used in getting fonje cf t!;e (hips of the
Weil India fleet jgll arrived into the Poole,
that several hundred hogfheada of new sugar
wgre entered at the Custom-house in time
to save the new duty.
The executors of John Hare, efqr. of
Norfolk, England, in pursuance of a codicil
to his will, caused his head to be fevered
from his ' ody, and f-wed on again previous
( , to bis interment.
Captain Rolerffon, of the Irig Angelica, from
Lijicn, left the Jotloiping American veffelt
at the Tagus.
Ship Columbus, —♦—, of New-York
Two Friends, Haifey, do.
Sifters, Mulloy, do.
Brig May Flower, Pro&or, Glocefter
Charlotte, Mallov.y, Baltimore
Sterling, Brown, Portfthouth
The brig Sterling was bound from To
bago to Portsmouth, taken in lat. 27, 30,
long. 64, by a French privateer rf 18 twelve
pounders, called the Mercury. Ordered to
Bordeaux, and retaken the 27th of June, off
cape Finefter, by the Puerel Bn'tidi (loop
of war, and sent into Lilbon.
1 - Arrived at Lisbon, July 3', a ship from
Baltimore, name unknown, fnpercargo's
name Jone's. Same day a ship from Boston,
captain Bums.
July 25, fpeke a (hip from St. Übes,
bound to Portfmonih N. H out 16 days.
August 3, spoke schooner Hannah, from
Bayonne (o Marblthtad a Cartel, with
American prisoners, lat 45 long. 47.
Asguft 28, boarded by the St. rtlban's,
Bi itifh man of war from Halifax on a cruize,
they had jpft taken possession of the brig
Hazard, of George Town, Maflacl.ufetts,
John Drummond matter, from Bordeaux to
New-York, out 28 days, and sent her to
Halifax.
gj- A Young Gentleman educated
in the Colli ee of Lfu:i;a, in Irciuud, withes tocn
gign immediately in .1 ruhiic orpriv.ua
Umily. He ha* ru obj.eeiii>n to any p-rt at tha
continent. Enquire at thii ailcc, where a nut*
i f: will le sttsn lid to. icjit. Ij.riLALTH-OtflCE,
1 tth September, i^9^-
tELLOW-CITIZENS,
OUR address of the ill inft. was in
tended to prcfert to your view the deplora
ble (late of otir city, and to excite into ac
tive exertion the phila- thropy and benevo
lence so eminently charafteriftic of the citi
zens of Pennsylvania. The fame generous
sentiments which you have difplaycd has in
fluenced the worthy ar,d benevolent citizens
of Bait more ; who always alive to the feel
ings of humanity, have, it appears by the
public papers, Screed to a fubferiptioh for
the relief of our diftrefled fellow citizens.
We return them all the gratitude and ref
pe£t to which dispositions so amiable are
entitled ; —but it becomes our duty public
ly to Itate that a fuod has been provided for
the purpose, upon the principal of a loan
in anticipation of the liberality ana justice
of our Lfgifisture, which precludes the
necefGty of donations in m6ney from the
humane citizens of our fitter dates.—Con
tributions of pruvifions fro-n our fellow-ci
tizens in the country, as well in New Jerfcy
is in our own State,, have been forwarded
for the use cf the diftrefiVd, with a liberali
ty which doeshoi or to the donors. A
We ftat'er rurfelves that similar donations
will be continued by those generous indivi
duals, who are contiguous to the city, and
can with convenience spare a part of their
produce for the r'elifcf of fufferng humanity.
By.Order of the Board of Managers.
Wm. JONES, Prelident.
Attest
Timothy Paxson, Clerk.
New Encampment.
The Committee who juperinterd the en
earopment at Matter's place near the Mill
Pond on the Germantown Pond, about
two miles from the city, refpe&fully inform
their country friends that they Hand in need
of an immediate supply of vegetables and
fir-.w for th use of thofe.diftreJTed citizens
who are flying from the present calamity.
T.'.e committee flitter themselves that the
fame liberality will be found in the farmer,
and others, to supply this Encampment, as
has been to hat on theCommonsnearSchuyl
kiil. both having the fame laudable objeA
in view.
John InHeep ~j
yon. Rote/on V committee.
Isaac IV. Morris. J
Camp. Mailers' Place,
September 10, '9B.
Agreeable to notification in several of the
newspapers of tire City of Philadelphia, re
queuing a meeting of the merchants, trad
er;, mechanics and other citizeni, at the
Union School Hoilfe in Germantown, on
Weduefday 29th August. at 4 o'clock P.
M\ i' order to fix on a fuitabfe character to
be offered at the ensuing election to repre
fer.t the City of Philadelphia in Coogrefs,
in the vaca' cy occaGoncd by the dcccafc of
John Sifanwick, Esq. and also in the next
Congress A senator, to represent in the
ttate senate, the city of Philadelphia and
County of Delaware—and fix persons to re
prefe-nt 'he city in thehoufe of assembly
A numerous and r<*fpcdiable body of the
freemen of he city attenced. The busi
ness of the meeti ig being opened, a letter
from captain Joseph Anthony, addrefled to
the chairman of the meeting was read, ex
prefling a decided opinion on the necefjjty
of uniting the interest of the friends of the
constitution and government in the choice
of their reprefentative,rhat he conceived Mr
Robert Wain well quShfied for a f.-at in
Congress, and folieiting his feHow citizens
that his name may not be offered in compe
tition with that gentleman, who has his ful
eonelirrence and approbation.
ROBERT WALN,
was nominated and unaniinoufly carried as
the Candidate for Cong ess.
FRANCIS GURNEY,
as Ibte Senator for the diflridt composed of
the City and County of Philadelphia and
County of Delaware; and as members to re
present the City in assembly
Jacob Hiltzheimer,
Lawrence Seiiei,
Andrew Bayard,
iViltiam Hall, printer.
Samuel IV. Fj/ler,
John Clement Stacker.
The question being put, will this meeting
support the foregoing ticket ? it was unani
mously agreed to, aud it was al& recom
mended to the freemen of the City of Phi
ladelphia attached to the federal government
for their support, and to those of the Coun
ty t.'f Philadelphia afrd County of Delaware
in support of tbe Senator.
Ordered, that the minutes of the meeting,
signed by the chairman a.id secretary, be
publi/hed in the newspapers of the City, for
the general information of the eledtors.
LEVI HOLLIhGSWORTH,
Chairman.
Daniel Smr th , Secretary.
Germantown, 29th Augujl, 1798.
Pursuant to tbe Ad of Congre/s, pas
sed Oil the ninth day of July, 1798, entitled
0 An Afl- to provide for the valuation of lands
and dwelling houf«s ar.d the enumeration of
/lives within the United States," —NOTICE
is hereby given,- shit the firft meeting of the
Commiihoners under the said Adl, far the flat*
of Pennsylvania, will be held on Mondav, the
twent"y second day of October next, at the bo
rough, of- Reading, in the said state.
C. READ,
Comroifiionei* firft named.
Reading. Sept 8, 1798.
To the Creditors of John Dickson, ,
of Milton, in the County of. Northumbei land,
and Statu cf Pennfyinxtnia.
GeNTLItMEN,
T. J ,KE NOTICE, that I have applied to the
Court of Common Vleas in and far the County of
Northumberland for the benefit of the several
laws made for tbe relief of Insolvent Debtors, and 1
tfiat the have appointed the laR Monday in 3
Oitober next to haar me and my creditors at the f
said Court in the town of Sunbury, at which time i
and place you are desired to attend: I f
Mi.ton, 4th Sept. JOHN DICKON. 1 1
AIMS-House, Aujjxift 16, i^giS.
GENTLEMEN,
Plffafe so take ffdiicr, that you are re
turned to serve as Guardians of the Poor
in- for the enfuirig twtlve months, you are
ra- therefore requested to attfcnd at the City
ac- Hall on the twenty fifth of September next,
vo- at Io o'clock in the ftirejioon.
iti- , By order of tbe Board,
Qua JACOB LAWERSWYLER.
in- Secretary, pro tern.
ens James M'Crea, - V
:el- Joseph R. Tatem, To succeed
the Jam«3.Glentworth, "'Nalbro Irazier.
for Samuel Price,: J
i. William Prettdn, ■
ref-' . Benjamin Price, \To fueceed
are Samuel Rhoads, Jeremiah Boon,
lie- Isaac T. Hipper,
for Bazel .Wood, - T .
oan Manuel Eyres, „ .
lice Janes King, J Standl,h Forde *
the Peter Keyfcr, 1™ , ,
the Philip J. Dehaas, f° k Z
on- S hit Servofs, John Ware,
-ci- Charles Swift, ,
•fey William Alexander, To fucceai
ded Nicholas Pickel, Peter Mieraken.
ali- Charles Baftios,
i William Holdernefjs,"
ons James Stokes, To fucceei
livi- Richard Bailey, "Joseph Anthony,
and John Whitefides,
heir John Hood, "J
ity. Jacob Grib'ble, ( To succeed •
r<i. Joseph Huddle,juu. ? Alexander Steel.
Joseph Conrad, 3
J' ha Davis, }
■ Joseph Simmons, f To fu.cc#cd
Charles Pleafants, L William Beaven.
David Seckel, J,
en _ Sa nuel Getliff,
John Waddington, / To succeed
OHt William Read, f George Piumfted.
>rm W'lham Ciamertd, 3 , -
ee( j Daniel Biiehm, )
, n( j Andrew Pettit, f To fitoceed
eus J f e pb Walk«r, ( Jacob (Lawerfwyler.
t y Jacob Edei.boru, J
the PMNNSTLrANtA, Jf.
ier,
In the Name and by the Authority of the Co
m' mogwealth of Pennsylvania,
yj- BY THOMA'S MIFFLIN,
C" Governer of the said Cnramonwealth,
A PROCLAMATION.
WHEREAS, it has been stated to "me by
the President and Dire&ors of the Bank
of' Pesufylvania, That>on~the night of Satur
day the firft instant, the House now occupied by
the said Bank, copijaonly called Carpenters
ttall, was burgiariouffy entered by fume villain,
}, e or villains unknown, and therefrom a confider
f(_ able number of Bank Notes of various defcrip
, tions and denominators wer« stolen and carried
1 " away: to the iMtent that the perpetrator,
lle or perpetrators of so great a crime, and the
Oil acceflanesthereto, maybeijifcnvered andlu-ought
P. to condign punishment, I have deemed it expe
to dient.iet Hlae this Proclamation, Hi Re By offer
re- ' n P and P' om?fiiig a ONE THOU
SAND DOLLARS to any perf'on, or persons,
I who (hall discover the perpetrator, or perpetra
ot tors of the said crime, or any of them, or any
' xt jccefTiry thereto, before or after tie fail, t> be
he paid on the conviifiiotfaf' all or any of the offen
nd ders: AND Ido furthec v offi:r and pro
re. mile A FREE AND, ENTIRE PARDON
_ unto any oire of. the perpetrators, or acceflaries
■ fo-efaiil of the commiltion of the (aid crime,
' e who (hall make a full and iatisfaftory disclosure
of all the eirrumftances relative to the contriving
•er and accomplishing the fame, and of the.qames
to asd'placea of abode of his or her aflociates, so
:x- that fW-h afiociates may be apprehended and
t „ convi.Sed: AND all the Judges, Juftiees, She
riffs, C»nfubles, and other Public Officers of
this Commonwealth (according to the duties.cf
*" e their refpe<SUv».ltatit>irs) are hereby required and
'_ r - enjoined to use all lawful means to detefl and
in bring tojuitice each ajid every person concerned
>ns in contriving, or perpetrating the crime afore
>e. said.
GIVEN under my hand and 'he Great
S:al of the-Siate,at Germantown, the
(Li S.) third day of September, in the year of
our Lord, c|ne thousand seven hundred
as and ninety-eight, and of the Common
wealth the twenty-thifd.
THOMAS MIFFLIN.
- By the Governorc
° A. J Dallas,
Secretary of tbe Commmwecllth .
e " JTA N D IN G~
At South Street wharf, the cargo of the fliip Con
neilicut, from Bat .'.via—
About 300 tons of Java Coffee,
of the growth of 1794 aßd 1795
60 tons of Java Sugar,
In cannifters—for sale by
lg PETER SLIGHT,
|j_ WHO ALSO MFIH *OR SALE,
150 hhds.choice Jamaica Sugars
n ." Jamaica rum in hhds
"" Brandy id and 4th proof in pipe», hhds.
Nt and quarter calks
jl. Madeira in pipes
re Old Batavia Arrack
july a S
T) City Commiffiooers' Officl,
August 30, 1798.
IN pursuance of an ordinance of the Seledt and
Common Councils, palled the 2ad day of M^y,
I7 ' g . . '
" PropofaU in writing will be received fcy the City
Cotnti.iflloners for one month from the firft of Sep
tember next, for letting to rent on leases for one
year, to'connienc« the rirft day of Januajy next,
the fpllowing public property of the citj
r 1 he wharf ard landing on Vin« llrett,
r Also on Saffafras,
f d Mulberry,
ds And Hi§h llreets.
of- Chefnutau<i W. Inut streets, Draw hriage, with
!E the Scale and Fi(h haufesj.Sprucej Pinii and Cedar
le llreets. '
te The Cellar under the City Hall.
le The Tavern at tbe middle ferry on Schuylkill,
0. with the lots contiguous thereto (except so much
thercot at (hall be occupied by any buildings erec
ted for the ule of the Colleflctr of the Tolls, or be
aeceflary for the toll gates.)
A stated meeting ol the City Commissioners will
be held at the City Hall every Tuesday morning t
1, ten o'clo.k, during the present epidemic eoim
This Day is Published,
AND FOSALE BY J. F£NNO, I i9,CHESNUTf4I R*JtT
e AN ADDRESS
>f To the People of Maryland,
d ON the origin, prdgrefs and prcfuit ftste of
d French aggrePion, with a (ketch of the infamous
n attempts to degrade the Government of the United
e States, and some reflections on tie late proceedings
e in Congress; written the last of April in the jjre
fentyear., by ai.Msmber of the H«We of Reprtfen-
Itatiics. S june u
\V!LtIAM M'LAWS;
j SADLER <3 HARNESS MAK&R,
( TT AS Kemoved to the Corner of Chel'nut
| A and Twe'fth-ftreelu, on the Sommons,
j where he willieceivc and execute the orders of
j his Iriends and whofpfale cuftoro'r*, with nfwai
j atteniioji & expedition during the prevalence of
j the present Epidemic, where it has not made its
lappearan e tk;s feal'on, nir d»ring any of the
years pad.
aut'utl 25 §
• FOR SALE; "
»V tUE NO. ELKVf NTH-STR F IT,
18 BagS/frefli Cloves.
IVillihgs ty Francis.
j go. dtf
FOR SALE^
The Cargo ofthe Schr. Sincerity
Benjamin Monteifh Matter, from Laguira,
CONSIST 1 NC OF
947 FchcjTfts (»f Cocoa
4000 lb. of Flora ru'igo
alO Bales of CottoO
4 Packages of Goar Skins
By Willings & Francis.
No. Eleventh Mreet.
jtfly dtf
Notice is hereb^giveh,
THAT application will be made to the Treafi
ry of the United States, for the renewd of the
following Certificates of Six Per Ceht Funded
Stock, (landing in the name of Join Garlonctt, of
London, the said Certificates having i e 11 loft on
h'»rd the Swallow Packet, Captain Kidd. from
Falmouth to New-York
Ao. 3072 I Cert, for 2000 dolls. 1
2964' I do. fooo >
10 »577 1 do 3000 J
Willings & Francis.
Philadelphia, augufl 50. eo6w
Arrived in the Jl/tp Pennjylvania, Capt. Wi L
liamson, from Hamburgh, ncaj lying at
Chefler.
A Number of.QER.MAN SERVANTS, men,
fx. women, boys and girls, amongst whom are
Gunsmiths, Turners, l'jykjrs, Black
fuiiths, Gardeners, .Masons. Coachmen, Huntfmeo,
&c. &c. wln.fe time of l'ertitu&e is to he dif,«ofed
of on board the Ship, fry
GURNET & SMITH.
aajrnfl jS.
JBengaJ Goods,
CONSISTING &F
> BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS,
Chintz ColTas Maharaigungy
Chint? Guzzinas Tookereys
Eliabad Biftas Wrought Muslins
Long Drawers
Coarl'e .Sugars in bags, (it for the European markets
ALSO,
Carolina Indigo
Coffee in hoglheads
A few pipes of very old and very choice Madeira
WINE
For Sale, on reasonable terms, by
jfohn Craig,
No. 12, Dock-tlreet.
July 14 . niwstf
FOR SALE, by
JoHft Miller, Jun.
NO. 8, CHF.SNUT STREET,
100 hogsheads RUM,
Of higli proof aud fine flavour
j"!y 19 §_
Madras and V(*nfapaiilpm
HANDKERCHIEFS,
Searfaukfcrs and Carradarties,
of the new eft aad mod a|>pfoved patterns, entitled
to th« drawback, just' received,
ANE> POR SALE BY
Alex. y. Miller & Co.
No. 64, South Front street.
may 18. j;
Doftor GOURDES,
No. 28, Pine-Street ;
Late SURGEON in the armies of St. Domingo,
OFFERi hisfervices to the inhabitants of Phi
ladelphia in lite line of hs prolefiion. He
flatters himfelf that h:9 long fuccefsful experience '
in the Weft-India fevers, will procure kiin ;he con
fidence ol the citijens of this city ; particularly'
those attacked by the present Epidemic.
august 35 eod3t
§3" ihe Sobfcribers have remov
ed for the present from Penn-ftreef to Eleventh
flreet, between Frlbmand iligh-ftreets.
Willings & Frmicis.
» w
Bank of Pennfylvaaia.
THE Bank of Pennsylvania is removed toGer
mantown, —where the will be tranla&ed
to-morrow, in the Union School House.
JONATHAN SMITH, Cafliier.
teptemher 4 §
N bt~IC~E.
Bank of the United States,
September 4. 1798.
THE Public are informed that after the 9th inft.
this Bank will be opened at 9 o'clock in the n)orn.
ing, and so remain until Moon.
G. SIMPSON, Cafliier.'
September 4. ■ >
NOTICE,
Bank of the United States,
r August 28, 1798.
lOSE persons who have Notes o, Bills to
pay at this Bank, are informal,
That regular Notices will be put underafeal
ed cover d(rei?led to the .refpeiftive payer and
lodg»<l in the Post Office tvtry Monday until
the return of the Citizens.
G. SIMPSON, cashier.
august 18 , 3av»tf
Pennsylvania Hospital,
9 mo. I, 1798.
NO psrfon with an difeafe, can be
aJmitted ir.tj this house; itls therefore car- ,
neftly recommended to the citizens, not to feud
or t ring any such patient to the gate, who is ill
uith the prevailing fever. Several persons having
been sent here improperly, is the reason of eivine
this caution.
S® y ing r Manages 4 ,} F ? ANCIS
NOW LANDING,
Fsom on board the brig Amiable Matilda, frdhi
Bourdeaux, and for sale by the fublcriber,
88 calks CLARET
7» do. dq. of a superior quality
a trunks green PARASOLS.
Thomas Murgatroyd,
No. it, Walnut-llreet.
WHO HAS #AT HAND,
White Wine in half Calks
Sweet Oil of a superior quality, in
boxes and ba(ket»
Lunelle Fntitlcd to
Sauterae / I Drawback.
Irish Market > WINES ifl Cafos
Macarty and 1
Medcc J
"Rota Wine in hhdi».
Pimento in bags..
may 29. tot s
Public Ncticfe is hereby given*
Thai propofais will be received at the office ,
ot tlie Secretary of the Trealury for fnp
plyingthe United States with a number not '
trxceeding Fort- tlionfand (lands of arms, ]
on the followingtQlHliiionn.
; id. The arm» uial! be maiiufaiJVtrjd in the e
■ United £taj&, conformable to the Chsrleville '
pattern ; the liirrels (hall be proved, and the r
mtiHAts agreeable to tlie rules now *
" praflifcd and rlitjOired by'the United Stite
the I,ocks(h flit* duly hardened ; the Hait«r«'d*
' and Bayo>#rts-&dil'bc.Umf*rcJ and tlie mount
ings, (locks, and every other pirticular (hall be
finiihed in a workman like manner.
id. The proposals mull fpecify the' number
which the partv iswilling to fijrnifh aud ihetiiEe
or times of delivery—On#, fourth of the p»
' posed number mud be delivered in fix months,
one fourth in twelve months, ai:d t'leiemamder
in eighteen month'from the time of figningthe ,
contrails i the public, will not be conlidered as ,
bound to receive any arms, which are not ready
for deliver'v within the times proposed.
3d. For every (land ol arms, witlt Ravohet
and Kamrod complete as afqjelaid, the United
States will allow thirteen dollars and fort) cents.
4th. When pra<Slicable ami confident with .
exilling ariangements, seasoned flocks will 'oe
delivered from the public flores in Philadelphia
, to contractors, at the rate of t venty-five cents
j each.
f sth. The arms willJ>e received in the r.-fpec
, tive states at places to be hereafter dffigiiated—
-1 The United States (hall not he bound to prove '
lels than five hundred barrels at one time, unlets 1
the barrels are tranfportcd to fume puhlic faifio
ry or depolii of arms, hi which cafe any num
ber notlefstharror.e hundred will be proved.
6th. The parties contrafling will be requited
to give bonds with furetics !<ir fulfilling their en
.
- indisputable teliimonials of (kill and ability to ,
t execute the proposed contradls are produced
nor in cases where propnfals are inadxior a lels !
number than one thouftnd (lands of arms ; the 1
right of judging of the expediency of making
. advances of money is absolutely reierved.
) 7th. Unt 1 contracts are made for supplying
1 forty thou.fa*4 (landsof arms, the sum of thir
teen dollars and forty cents will be paid, at the
Treasury for every complete Jland of ai ms man
ufactured in the United States and which may 1
- be delivered in parcels of not less than twenty
into the public arfcnals, alreatiy or, hereafter to
be efiablifhed. Those who propose to deliver
arms must ho-* ever indicate their intentions sea- 1
fonably to the office of the Secretary of the 1
Treasury.
For the Secretary of the Treasury,
s John Steele, comptroller.
■Treasury Department ) .
yime lid, >ll9s. S jrVwrf
TkhASUHY DEPARTMENT,. J
JUNE 17, 1798. '(
Notice is hereby given, That by vir- <
tue of an ail, pasTed during the profent fef- (
Con ®f Conjrefs, so much of the aft entity led (
" An A£t making further provision forthefup- <
" port oi public credit, aryl fsr the redemption a
"of the public debt"-—patted the third day.of 1
March, one thousand seven hundred and sinety- t
five, as bars from fettlcment or allowance, (
Certificates, commonly called Loan Office and I
final fettlcment Certificates, and Indents of In- r
terelU, is firfpemled until the twelfth day of. i
J«nc, which will l)e in the year oOe.thoufand (even a
hundred ami ninety iub.:. " -
That on the liquidation and fettlementof the
f=ld Certificate®, aii-J Indents of Interest, ot the "
Treafsry, the Creditors will be entitled to receive
Certificatw of "fiH>Jc<| Three Per Cent. Siockequal
to the amount of the-fa id Indents, and the ari ear- I
ages of intereft'due on their said Certificates, prior H
to the firti Jay of January one thousand fewen t
hundred and ninety one. t.
That the principal fu-.ns of the said Loan Office
and final fettlcment Certificates, with the interest
thereon, (ince the firft day ot January, one thou
sand seven hundred and ninety one, will be dis
charged after liquidation at the Treasury, by the
payment of interest and reimbursement of princi
pal, etpial to the ii*n;s which would have been '
payable thereon, if the said Certificates had. heen
fubferibed, pursuant to the Aits making provision c
' forthe debts of the United States, contracfted dur- ,
ing the late war, and by the payment of other r
funis, equal to the market value of the remaining t
Stock, which would have been created Iry fuel! c
fubferiptions asaforefaid, which market value will -
"be determined by the Comptroller of theTreafury. 0
OLIVER WOLCOTT, i
Secretary of tic Treasury. !<
jnne 38 lawtt I
To Be Sold, at private Sale,
A Plantation and Trafi of Land
CONTAINING 14; acres, (ituate in Wh:te
marift townlhip, in t,hecounty of Mer.tgom
\ry, about 15 miles fronj Philadelphia, aiid 0,1
the public roa I leading from Plymouth by the
Broad-Ax tavern toward Hor(harn, and about
(me. quarter cf a .mile from said tavern, alt
about tlie lame diflancefrom the SJcippaek roa
and abopt tlie fjme -di Unce from the late refi
dence' of James Morris e!q. decealfed. It i
bounded by lands of Anthony Morris esq. Ja
cob Ueiff and Detwyler. About teH acres ar<
good watered meadow, abtfut 15 er 20 arc ui
der cicver, autf about j'j acies are well timbered
The buildings 011 the ahov.e farm coufilt of 3
two-story (lone dwelling-lumfe, a large ftom.
barn and (lone fprijtg--houfe. There is" also cr
thepremifes a young orchard of about lsoap F
pie trees.
This farm has great advantages of water, as
there is an excellent never-bailing (iream paffinf:
by the house and barn, in l'uch a mariner as t
fnpply the fame as- well as every field wich a fu. 0 l
1 fieient quantity. w
The spring <iver which tjie spring-house U n.
buiit, Is excellent water, and is also very near cs
and convenient to the dwelling house. li
Th< fituatiop of this place is healthv and in ? w
good neighborhood, and is near to several dif- d<
ferent platas of worihip, and within the dil
tance of half a m lf from two grift and saw
mills, ;lfo near, lime-kilnj. j-,
This farm wilUie fold together or divided in- t'l
to two parts a» may suit the purchasers. Alii rt
a two-(lor\' (lone hpufe wirh a barn and carriage 1
house and lot of land fittiate 011 ChejW-hili. I »
is a very high and healfhy situation, and com- q<
mauds a very five an<! beautiful prciprcl- fu
I'ofTeffion-of part of ttie'-fi-oufe miy be had im
mediately.' *
For further particular® apply to Henry Pratt,
No 94
CHRISTOPHER HETDPICK,
on CbcjTiUt-Hilt.
Chefnut-hill, august 14th, 1798. lawtf *
James C. & Sam I. IV. Fijher, tc
Noi 13 Arch-Str tET,
Have Jor Sale j **
200 Calks belt reftntd'Salt P«re a<
Bed London Window Glass from toby 8 to
12 by 10 J
Ditto Glass Ware in Cafits afiortedcDnlaftini;
of pint and half-pint Tumblers, Wine I
t Glall'es, Gdbleti, £cc. .
so, *
' A few Bales of Red, White ana Yellow Flao- «
r.ds. Baizes and Kendall CoUous. u
J une *7 jjiwtt j
For Sale.
jfiißßC*iaEK, intending to decline th'
1 DRUG BUStNESS, offers For Sale
whole Stock of
Drugs and Medicines, Instruments, & c . *
'lh.fhop is elegant, commodious, and fuffici
ently known for thtfexteafive business Cone in tlw
wnolefale an! retail lir.e the situation equal to
any i»the city, being at the coinir of Walnut and ' I
Second flrcets. The whole, or any part of H>*J '
3iuvK, vin fc-ii iun. I'urciiaicr,{
The terms ma/ he known, fiy jippMnV to
JAMES MOOK.E, jus. •
IVto tat For Salt,
V\ eli calculated for the
The PepgYj about 3otonsburthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, and remarkably
stout, of an easy draught of water, rigging in
good order.
The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
well, and incomplete order for the lumber buGnels,
$T All persons indebted to the late firm of
Gtlill•wait & Baldwin, W. B. Golutbwait, Gold*
ibzvait Is" Metre, or the fubferiber, are earnellly
rcquefted to make speedy paymest to
jAMfcS MOORE, jbn.
august j §
PETER BLIGHT
H AS removed bis Counting House to his House
in the Northern Liberties near Nice Town, Grt
mantown road.
augaft al. tf
" NOTICE.
Bank of North America,
Augvjl 28ih, 1798.
Perfons who h.ve I\a(csoi Bills to pay
J at this Bank are informed,
That regular Noticcs'will be put under a fealti
corer direded to the refpedive paye* and lo<lg«d -
in the PuftOffice every Monday until the return
of the citizens.
RtitURD WELLS, Cajhi-r.
_aug. 19 drf
COLLECTOR'S OFFICE,
Phh.adfi.pmia, Angull 30, 1798.
TKK bufincf- "f the Cullom House will from
tuisflay be tranfs&ed at Chefler, doring the con
tinuance of the fever which now prevails in this
city ; and in canfequ.nce thereof, the m rchants
are hereby notified, that payment of all bonds lor
duties to the United States, payable at this office,
may be made either at the Cudom House in Cllef
ter, or at the Bank of the United States.
CofWlor's Office, > ■?
Philadelphia, Aug. 30. J
~ REM OVAL.
THE Office of the Secretary of the Commiflion
crs for carrying into ess.-d the twenty firft Article
of the Treaty of Friendlhip, Limits and Naviga
tion, between Hjs Majclly ar.d the Unit
ed States of America, is for the present removed
from No 54, South Second ftrcet, to a largo two
flory brick house On the right hand going up the
Girmantown road,' just above theGlotie Mill, ufu
a ly called Mafters's house, being a very airy and
healthy situation ; to whith.perfons having claim*
to exhibit, or enquiries to make, may come er
fend with the greatest fafety. Letters, post paid,
Bills and Notes, to be noted or protelled, and di
rections r'ipeiling any kind of Notarial business,
inc'ofed and left at the Post Office, will be duly
attended to, by
PETER LOHRA.
Philadelphia, atiguft 30 3 lw _Jt
The Office of the Committee,
Appointed to fnperintend th» building of the
Frigate to be loaned to the United Statis, is rcmo
Vcd to No. uaSpruce flreet—of which thofegen
tlemen who have not already come forward with
their fubferiptions will p'cafe to tike notice.
ROBERT RITCHIE, Sec'ry.
antrint 7
DUTY on CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby given,
rHAT agreeably to an ait ot Oongrefs of the
United States of America, paited at Phila
delphia the ißih day of May, 1796, laying du
ties 011 carriages for the conveyance of perf»ns, and
repealing the former ails for that purpose That
tii-re Bull be levied, eolleSed and paid, upon all
carriages for the conveyance of persons, which
1 ' lc kr'pt by or lor any person, for hie or her
own use, or to Ist out to hire, or for the convey
ing oi paflengers, the several duties and rates fol
low,ng viz. dolls,
ror and upon eveijy coach j -
upon every chariot
upon (very post chariot H
upon,every coll chaise 1%
noonevery pha;ton, with or without top 9
upon evepy- coachee
upon other carriages, having pannel")
work above, with blinds, glaftes, { a
or curtains \
uaeyi four-wheel carriages, having")
frame puJis and tops, with steel C 6
springs \
■ t upon four-wheel top carriages, with ")
wooden or iron springs on jacks J 1
upon curricles with tops j
upon chailes with tops
upon chairs witfl tops »
upon with t»p»
upon other two wheel top carriage* 3
■pon two wheel carriages wiJi iUel - )
or iron firings * j 3
For and upon all other two wheel carriages j.
upon every four wheeled carriage,")
having framed polls and tops, C a
"{d reding upon wooden spars 3
I he Coliedorof therevenueol tbe'firlldivifioit
of tne urft furyey of the ditlrid of Pennfylv nia,
will attend daily until the 3 etk day of Septeir.: ; cr
next, lor the purpose of receiving the duties on
carriages, at Germantown, en the Main street, a
little above the fijn of the King of Prussia, of
w' .c a persons pollcffed of such carriages arc
deiireq to take notice.
Notice is also given,
To all retail dcahrsin wi nci and foreign diftillei
lpiritiious liquors, that licenies will be granted la
them ; one iiccoce forearming on the business of
retailing ~[ »« , in a q„ alJtity) or in |r{ ,
uantirfe., than 30 gallon—-and one lieeme for
"I>:ng 0:1 burn eft of retailing spirituous li
quors hi Iris quantities than twenty gallons, at t'lo
fame trnit place, by
r, „* JA* IVJ.ES ASH,
t-oiledor of the llt division of the ift
us of -PtiiiKflviiiiia.
Olhce of ,U:fpeAion at Germantown, 7
' August, 1 79 3. )
£? tveTy denomination of Stamps to be hid
at laid office.
Cr 1 he Stamp Press is removed
to t..e Office of Infpedion in Germantown, on the
M-ifc .-reet, a little a! ove the figi of the King ol
Prunia, —where attendance will be given for the
accommodation ol thole who wiiirany instruments
an.pcd, on f uefdays, Tliurfdays and batnrdajs.
augu-t 22 '
To be Sold,
An elegant and convenient House*
I"Cbfwtjrett, next<Urt<,tbcß«»l,f Nertb Aakiriet.
' t C Tb l 1# l^rt y onc huncred and seventy
it. lie House has been thoroughly repaired
witnm a jew months.- Apply to the Printer.