Of tlft tzaniteti States, AND Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
NuMBSJi 171 7. J
FOR SALE,
Weft Indian,
JsSreßMt»r- Philadelphia built, live oak and
cedar, i« coppered, ibetthed and bolted, 3 y«ars
old, fails remarkably well, carries 15 a 1600 bar
rels—now lying at Sowh-ftreet wharf, ready to
Joad PETER BLNSHT.
march 6. ftw
' SALT.
3 coo to 4000 bushels of large
grained SALT,
From St. Martin's on board the Ihip Spy, at the
Still House wharf—for fate by
Stephen Kingston,
46, Walnut Street.
SAID SHIP
jOpil Will fail in a few days
For Savannah in Georgia.—For freight
Viy V rr apply aa above, or to the
Captain on board.
February «y *cod3t
For Hamburgh,
THE SHIP
Dominick Terry,
Jacob Dehart, Mafler,
**■•* l Mriwif?Hwin| great part ef her cargo en
gaged.—For freight apply to
JeJfe if Robert Wain.
Febmnry 16 \
Nicklin y Griffith,
At their Store on Walnut Street Wharf—
HAVt FOR SALE,
ft hhd». of Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wine in pipes andhhds.
Teneriffe do. in pipet
Old Port do. in hbdt.
Imperial Tea in quarter! and eighths of chests
Sail Canvass, No. 1, to 8
Dimities, Ginghams, and Muflinets, in packa
ges suitable for the Weft-India*market
Nails aiTorted
Black quart bottles
Queens ware in hhds. and crates
Yellow ochre dry in calks ;
And at New-York, on board the
Clip Diana, from Liverpool, expected round
as Toon as the navigation is open,
Tine Liverpool dalt
Coals
Spinifh Brown 1
Venetian Red
Purple Brown •' p AINT .
Patent White f ™ IJN rS
White Lead
Red Lead J
Golcothar vitriol
160 bundles Sheathing parper
Seaming Tw.ne
Sh'P Diana,
jjgftp For Sale or Charter.
4 *-* 9t - —-
BrigAMAzov.
N. B. The late firm of Phflip Nicklin & Co.
Is now chanced to
NICKLIN GRIFFITH.
January I. eodtf
For Sale or Charter,
fflla good HOPE
Will cafty about 1200 barrels, and
%£ss£sZi*™<*y totake in a cargo. For terms
apply to
Praters £9* Co.
No. 151, South Second-street.
Who hare for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar
and Rum, Madera, Llfbon, and Teneriffe wins.
November 7. dtf
For Sale by the Subscriber,
Forty-nine bales of Muslins, being the re
mains of the (hip India's last "cargo from
Calcutta, and will be fold low,
7 Boxes of Umbrellas
25 Pipes of fineft particular Madeira wine,
of the mintage of 1795.
Mordtcai Lewis.
February 19 d2wr
Wanted, 1
An adive, cleanly, industrious woman to cook
ad do the business of the kitchen. Soth a one
ill be allowed good wages, and no other need ap
y.—Enquire of the Printer.
February 7 } j
Boston Glass Manufactory.
r pHE citizens of the United States are hereby ?
X informed, that the manufadure of Window '
Glass is now commenced at the Glass House in 1
Boston. S
It is needless to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of the Bo(t*n Glass, as it is so well known
throughout the United States to be in every rcf-
ped gteatljr superior to any ever imported from
Europe. n
It will be cut to any (ize commonly used ; and C
may be constantly had by applying to Charlts F. o'
Ki'ffcr, at the Glaf, House. hi
Orders from the distant States to be addressed to
Mr. Samut Gort, Court-street, Boston.
tr[ Two or three goo J Glass makers ate want
ed at the above works; such as can produce re
commendations for good behavior, maybefureof
employ, by application to-Mr. Giorgi L. Limit, at
the works. Men without families w ill be pre- r-i
ferrcd. However unacquainted with the method
•f rjaking Crown Window Glass, they will meet ,
with the fame encouragement.
Boston, January 16 —law6w
NO T I C F7 «
tec
WHEREAS a Certificate to Hannah 3hil- toi
lt, of Oxted Cottage, in the County of be
.Surrey, in Great-Britain, Spinster, or her alfigns, th<
tor two thousand five hundred and iixty-two dol- ma
lars twenty-three cents, in the deferred flock of ma
tbe United States, was loft in the ship Peggy, t h e
Capt. Hyer, bouild from Philadelphia to London wh
in the year 1796. The lufcfcrilier, the said Han- ma
nah Shelly, intends to apply to the Treasury of of
the United States, for a renewal of the said Cer- be
tificate. w fe
HANNAH SHELLY. and
Tib. 33. lawCw. I
PHILADELPHIA:
Will be fold on Wednesday the
lift of March, at 7 o'clock in the evening, at
the Merchants* Coffee House, for calh,
AGREE ABLY to the last will and testament of
William Heyfbam, dece:fed, and pofleflion
'ars pven immediately, a valuable properly in -\rth
ar- street, between 1 bird and Fourthftreets, confiding
t0 ?' * e House No. 107, wi'h the tot 00 which it
stands, a Stable and other impr#venf»-~ti. The
r house is ». feet front and contains te£ good apart
ment 5. The lot is of tb« fame bread; has the house,
and 109 feet d.ep, with a of water, *nd a
Tcr T capacious walled cistern, both with pumps in
0 com pleat repair. The flable stands on the re rof
the lot, and will accommodate fonr horses and a
the carriage. This property enjoys a perpetual privi.
lege of a »6 leet c.nrt and an alley 8 fact wide, ex
tending to Cherry street It. central polition, and
the advantages it pofleffes with rtfped to free Veil
tilstion, renders it well worthy ihe attention of
any psrfon w.lhing to pofftfs an eligible property
p-g U Philadelphia. 6 r r 1
'h % >iert . er 1 Aaing
* Francis Bowes Sayre y i Executor*.
xi . CONNELLY Co. AuVru
N. B. The house will be open two days prevt
— ous to t e fale,for the infpefiion of thoie who wish
|f| march 7 —§Utft
l?reih 1 eas.
> Imported, in the Jhip Delaware,
ja- Captain Cooper, from Canton,
•And For Sale % iy
SAMUEL HOWELL,
At his Compting Houf , No. .54, Chefnut-ftreet,
AND BY
SAM. E. HOWELL,
At his Compting House, Crooked billet wharf,
Bohea,Souchong, Hyson» Young
Hyson, Hyson Skin, and Imperial TEAS.
ALSO, <
China Ware, afTorted ; black and coloured Lute
strings and Sattius, Nankeens, Cassia, large garden
fts and common Fans, fattin and lutestring Umbrellas,
whilc-bonc flicks.
;a- Tbty have alft Ftr Salt,
Ell wide Persians, Bandanna Handkerchiefs,
French Cambricks and Umbrellas, Sugai in boxes,
march 8. §
7 0 be Let on the Shares,
A valuable Farm ready flocked,!
WITHIN 34 miles from Philadelphia, on the
id weft fide of Schuylkill, and near the turnpike.
It th tenant will find suitable per- ;
sons to take care of a dairy and attend market,
with all other neceflary labour.
ALSO, WANTEB,
A Gardener—a Single Man.
None need apply, in either cafe, unless they can
bring good recommendations.
Enquire at No. 30 Market-street.
march 5. -§iw
To be Sold,
An elegant Country Seat,
Containing 6 acres and 4? perches with a neat
two story brick House and kitchen thereon, an ap
ple Orchard, kc iituatc on the Irish trad lane, in !
the cownihip of Moyameiifing, about one mile from ,
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
~l» imsnrtirowwTqjraj apP tte«ttm « the office of ! :
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for t.fle and
elegance Sand unrivalled.
N. B. It tbe above place is not fold before the
ioth inft. it will then be rested, for the Summer
fcafon only. § march j.
Notice is hereby given,
I 'HAT application will be made for the renewal
A of a Certificate of a Share in the Bank of the <
United States, standing in the name of the Subleri- 1
ber, NO. 50C4, and dated July 11,1797 —the sams t
having been loft. c
d JOHN GRAHAM. t
s _ march s §6w I
FOR SALE, ' '
The House in Chefnut-ftreet, f
NEXT door but on* to the corner of Fifth-ftreet, 1
r occupied by the fubferiber. Its eligible situation v
i. is well knofon—The rooms are spacious and con- r
venient, and finilhsd in ahandfome (tile—lt has 4
a double Kitchen, and excellent Cellars, with an
lee House and rain water Cistern, and thire is a \
Pump of good water near the kitchen door. f]
1 For terms arp!y to
GARRETT COTTRINGER.
m " eh *• §IW_
TO LET,
■did may be entered on immediately,
A good dry Store,
Three stories high, and in an excellent stand for
bnfiaefs. Apply to A
c Thomat & JoJhua Filer, r
; march t. § No t. ] 'ock- lrcet. p]
' NOTICE ~ 0
TS hereby given, that the Subscriber, an infol-
A vent debtor, confined in the common goal of
the County of Cape May in the state of New-
Jersey, hath presented his petition to the Judges
, of the Inferior Court of Common Pleas, in and
for the said county, praying that they would a 1
attend to hear what can be alledged for or a
gamfl his liberation, pursuant to an ad of the m;
Legifiature of this State,entitled "an ad for
the relief of insolvent debtors," pallid the 26th
day of January 1798-And the the fa.d court
did appoint Monday the a6th day of March
next for the purpose aforefaid ; to meet at the
Court House in the Middle Precind, at eleven
o clock, in the forenoon of Ihe said day, of which T :
his creditors are request.d to take noik-e. *
Cape May, Feb. 8, 1798.
- Fel> U— iaw;w
Custom House, ° f (
DiJliiK of Pennsylvania, March 6th, 1707, ,
-pHE MERCHANTS of PHILADELPHIA. En
X who may have any account or knowledge of eut
the capture or detention of sny ship or vessel, ear- ~
go, or other property, belonging to citizens of the
United States, residing within this diflrid, by or
under the authority of foreign nations, since the No
firft day of Odober, 1792, are particularly requef- I")
ted to give in information thereof, to the Collec- I>
| tor of the Port of Philadelphia, as soon as may ed 1
|be convenient ; fpecify ing the name of the veflel, aga
the captain s name, the number o; tons, the cfti- Un
mated value of the vessel, if condemned, the efti- den
mated value of her cargo, or other property, whi- the
ther carried, and by, or under the authority of Cor
what nation captured, with such observations as inft
may be thought nrceffary upon the circumstances " n
of each cafe, in order that Uatements thereof may « 0
be tr nfmitted to the Secretaiy of the Treasury '• ft
who is required to lay the fame before the Senate " a
an d House of Reprefcntativcs of she United States Pri
march 7. 5 , 0 l r
By John Fenno, N 0 * 119 Chefnut Street.
FuR. SALE,
, at 400 barrels BEEF.
Enquire of
' George Pennoel, #r
Gid* HM Well*.
ling wreh 1. sots
1 » */ e-marrow will be onded,
' From an board the briy Bet.jimii» Vrasiklin, eapt.
J»ne«, from Bordeabx,
il' Claret of fupericr quality, viz.
*in MEDOC 7Of the vint*gesof 1700 and 1701,
of LATOUR J in cafe*
d a alio,
ivi- WHITE WINE, of the vintage of 1790
ex- roR su> ir
»nd PHILIPS, CRAMONDk Co.
march 7. §
rt°7 NANKEENS.
. Ten thousand pieces Nankeens,
rs FOR SALE on a liberal credit, by
SAMUEL HAYS,
vi- No. lay, ChcfnatStreet.
,fl, ""th 7 eod6t
; To be Sold,
A BRICK HOUSE, together with the Lot
thereto belonging, In the city of Burling
ton, New-Jersey. The house ha* three room*
'f, below, andttiree chambers in the upper sory.
The kitchen adjoining is a fame buil ing. The
Lot has a front ef 71 feet on Pearl-street, and
the fame front on the river Delaware. The
et, ' en gth of the Lor i* about 250 feet —The house
commands a very pleafanr profpefl of the river,
aad of the Borough of Bristol, on the Pennfyl
f, * in ' a store- Immediate pofTeffion may be had.
For further particulars, inquire of Mr. Jobu
b Sims, next door below the City Tavern in Phi
ladelphia, or the fiibfcriber in Burlington.
. THOMSON NEALE.
te * R»rlin«>ton. march 1 *eo<ltw
as, Valuable Property for bale.
f. FOR SALE,
• J HAT well known EBate, called SHREWS
-l BURY FARM, formerly the residence of
General John Eadwalader, fiiuate on Saflafras Ri
ver, in Rent county, Maryland—containing a
' bout 1900 acre* of prime LAND, upward* of 500
> of which arc in woods. Tfi« Buildings are all ex
c , cellent, aad confifl of a handi«me Dwelling House,
i two large Barns with Cow hcu'es, Stables for fifty
r * horses, a spacious treading floor under cover, a
st, granary, two Overfeer'. house*, two ran
ges of two story building* for Negroes (one of
them new and of brick), Carn house*, a Smoak
house , Bcc. &c.—The whole EAafe being nearly
in surrounded by water, it require* but little fencing,
and has a good Shad and Herring fifluiy. It is
conveniently fitjated for both the Philadelphia and
Paltimore markets, with- two landings on a navi
gable rive r but a lhort fail from Baltimore. There
i* a large Peach, and two laige Apple Orchards on
the ptemifus; also, a variety of excellent fruits of
it different kinds. The foil iimoflly a rich loom.
j. I"!he whole will be fold together, or divided into
in ' f ,ria " e r farms (for which the buildings areconven
m ; iently situated) as may suit the purchaser. The
jj | Stock on said Farm, confiding of Horses, Cattle,
>f j Sheep, &c. will alia bedif|»of«dof —For further
particulars apply to Gioaoe Hastinos, on the f
d premise*, or to the fubferiber, in Philadelphia. a
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jwk.
e February 24. 4aw6w J
T House and Lots, in Bordentown. j
TO BE SOLD, a handsome two story House, ■
with the Lot on which i< it ere<fled, situat
e ed about the middle of the beautifal and healthy r
i- Village of Bordentown. The house i* forty
s two feet in front, and in neat order. The lot
contains one acre, and is one hundred feet on
the main street, aitd extend* with -the fame
breadth to back fireet. Also, a Urge Lot, con
taining nearly four acres, separated from the
former by back street. One third only of tha -
purchase money will be required upon txreut
, mg a deed, and for the remainder, such credit
> wll be given as the purchaser may chufe. Thi* .
property will be fold free of all incumbrances, I
5 and an indisputable title given. g
' For further particulars enquire either of Dr. ; n
1 William Burnes, refidiug in Bordentown, near £
the premises, who will shew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON, a i
Conveyancer, No 43, Mulberry-street. is
Piifon Manufadtory. «
FOR S.4LE, £
At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel
phia, F(
Cut Nails of all sizes, from 3dy to aody ■ er
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, saddle and card Tatk* f r ,
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakers and Sadltrs Thread j 9
Also—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier"* tables,
tomb and heai rtones, hearth*, chimney pieces, j n
platforms, window hea4«, tills, c.' n u
All which may he had on reafonablc terms.
Shoe* made and Weaving done at said Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders from a rfirtancc, direfted to Daniel Tho- ,
mas, agant for the paifda, will be attended to. V.
December 16 mtli6m
French Circulating Library. s '
an
JOSEPH E. G M. De La ORANGE, l i
No. 110 Walnut-flreet, p c
INFORMS thoft who wish to recur to the only ins
mean* of becoming perfed in the French Lan- toi
guage,that he has just opened his L ibrary, con- tio
fitting of upwards of 1500 volumes, the best cal- rie
culated to afford either ufefui inilruaion, or plea- Un
sure. The conditions, together with a catalogue ]
of the Library, may be seen at every book-feller'* fell
in town.
n. b. All translations from and into the French, Lai
Englith and Sp.mifh Languages, execu:ec with ac- by
eurat) and dispatch. now . u .
»UK SALE, at " T
Wm. Young's Book Store,
No. st, Setond street, the corner of ehefnut ft rtet .
O EPORT of the Committee of the House of
IV Representatives of the United States, appoint- (
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment ,
apmft VILLI \M BLOUNT, a Senator cf the t
United States, impeached of high crimes and mis- r
demeanors, made in pursuance of a relolution of r
the Houfd of Rcprefentatives, authoricmg the said r
Committee to fit during the recefc of Congress, and P
" 10 l nq "l re ; an<l ' lawful ,
mean*, to discover .he whole sa.ure and e«, B t f
of the r.ffencethereof the said William Blount >
- thu f
°/'l' s
5
MONDAY EVENING, MARCH 12, 1798.
LANDING,
AND FOR SALE,
The Cargo of the Ihip Fair American,
r Sames Burke, mailer, from Aux-Caye», now ly
ing at Beli'a wharf,
r r CON,is I inß or
Molafles, Coffee, Sugar and Dye
apt. ,
Apply to
• ISAAC HARVEY, jv*.
J, South Water-street.
'''• 3 mo. 6. w
The Commimoncrs
FOR carrying into tffcA th. TWENTY-FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Friendship, Limits, and
Navigation, betwen His Catholic Majeity and the
I United Stattsof America, hereby giveintormatiou
to all Person* therein concerned—That in orfer
to terminate all difference!, on account of theloff
jg es fuflained by the citizens of the United States, h
* conlequence of their Yeffels nd Cargoe* having
been taken by the Suhjeds of His Catholic Maj»f
ty, daring the late war between Spain aod Franc;,
that they are ready to receive (at their Office, be
tween the hours of ten and one o'clock, daily) all
complaints and applications, authorized by the fair!
■^ ot Article, during eighteen months, from the day
of the date hereof, and that they have power* to
J»" examine allfuch perforce as csmt before them, on
oath or affirmation, touching the complaints in
r r- question, and also to receive in evidence, all writ
ten testimony, authenticated in such manner a*
' they lhall think proper to require or admit.
By Order of the Commijjuntrt,
» fc PETER LOHRA, Secretary.
*T' Commijfwnert Office, No. 109, Mulkerry
y'" Jlrect, May 17th, 1797.
' d - Feb. *B, \>B—*lm
. %* Those Printers in thi several Statee-who pvhtijh-
Sli- tJ tie above advertisement lajl Spring, are rofnefieJ to
rt-fmblifi it w month, and fend their jceouah to P. L.
THE Subscriber informs those
to whom he is indebted, thai a person will
attend every day, Sundays excepted, until the itt
of April next, from the hours of 10 o'clock in the
morning till a o'clock in the afternoon, at the house
formerly occupied ky him in Chefnot-ftreet, for
the putpole of (hewing all books, papers and let. 1
te " regarding his pall commercial tranfa&ions to
ftich ol his creditor? as may think proper to attend
and examine them.
* JAMES GREENLEAF.
e, march *• eoti A
c r *
,! By Elliston John Perot,
of AT#. 41, North Water Street,
ik London particular Madeira Wine, is pipes and
|y quart r calks, 4 years old and fit for immediate use.
g, Inferior do.
is A few bales Allibad Cofles
id Bandanna Handkerchief*
i- Sail Canvass, No. 1, to 9
-e A few bags of Juniper Berries
n A parcel of Soal Leather, aid
>f A few boxes of China.
" march 3 lu*f 4 w
* For Sale,
ie A good situation for a Country Seat,
s, FORTY acres of land on the Old York Road,
x within.fight of Germantown and about five miles
e from the City, the whole being under goad fence,
and in excellent order m pasture ground.
For further information and terms, apply to
- Elmott Ck«ssoh, at hi. office for the
late of Real Estates, Conveyancing, &x. No. ?4,
High-flreet.
ad mo. g6lh. aawiw
'! ~~ ' TO LET,
f And poffeffien given th* lft April next,
r TheHoufeNo. 258 High-street,
t At present occupied by P. Botlkr, Esq.
1 Apply to *
[ Edward Shoemaker,
• . No. la;, High street.
. February 24 eod 3 w
Bafken ridge—for sale c
[ s
' T T of 9*°*"", almost all of which is o
1 a fine rich Meadow, {the teGdenceof the late ~
Karl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided V,
■ into five farms, four of which are bounded On the .
Eart by the river I'afaick. M
Th r» are on it a number of buildings, forming G
afquare of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house 0
is a very convenient one and a fiflallexpence would G
put it in complete rr pair. I Pi
The orchard conulls of 1500 fin«bearing engraf- S"
ed A pple Trees—and there is on other pirts of said G
trail near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great M
varie'y of other fruit j,particularly Cherries ot the
bell and most delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
Forest Tress, that add to ths beauty and eonveni
ence of the place. Its situation n about 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do. n
frens Morris-Town, and la from Springfield It
is wooded and watered. CD
I o favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in cash, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co. E a
_ , No. 78, Chefnut treet.
February 1. eodtf
Canal Lottery— No. 11. f.
W ILL r m rT" drawing Monday, the aoth
V V ,„a. Ticket* for Sale in thi. Lottery at
Seven Dollars at Wm. BLACKB[,R N ' s Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-flreet—
-1 lckets m the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Tea
Dollar, where cheek books are kept lor ragifter-
Z"m "» m 'rg fn the Ck ? * Wafting-
ton, No. ll.and Patt.rfon Lotteries, and informa
tion wh*re tickets maybe had in moft; o f the Lqtte-
Union llw an an y of the States of the
f fincfiof a kaoxiE*, inbuyingaud
feiring all k.nds of Public Stock and Securities 1
difco.nting Bills and Notes of Hand, f,l, o '[
Land*, Houles, &e.&c. will be duly attended to, I
y M , WM. BLACKBURN. "
November 15. 8
James C. fcf SanmdWTFifliir ;
AT TBEJR STORE, * _J
No. ? rj, corner of Arch and Frant Qreet.
BAFM FOR SALE,
otton and worlted Hosiery ip trunks,alforcd** C
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannel
Ditto fucty romall Handkerchief* C
Ditto Pallicat silk ditto NOl
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs ditto 1
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taffetics
4000 pieces Nankeens, and An '
Few chests best Hyson Tea C
, b ° X ' * best London Window C!»f, x/
from Bby 6, jto 19 by r 4 _ ar ,d I 5 hhds. Glass'
I?anJr^S; hthcirwuid^k of eh "i- 1
Nov 18 , E
Jtawtf j
rHF term of Co-partnerfbip between the fuf>-
fcribers, trading under the firm «f Jqjm Mil
| ler, jun. and Co. expires this day, and by mutual
an > confenc wiH not be renewed* Tke dekts and con
ly- ccrr.s of the fame will be fettled by John MiHcr,
Jun. to whom ail those indebted to the partnership,
are earnefily requeued ta make payment to, wi&*
ym out delay. .» *
7 JOHN MILLER, T„n.
ALEXANDER J. MILLER.
fabraary rg .. <tf
LANDING,
From oa board the Ship Sally, from
Calcutta,
ST ANB ,0 * SALI f Y THt
md 1600 bags prime Sugar,
the 800 d*. Ginger
ion Jo bale* loir priced piece Goods.
V John Miller, Jun.
march J
ng "" FOR SALE, HT
John Miller, jun.
K ' No. 8, Chtfnut street,
«u A quantity BENGAL GOODS,
—A MOM CIT WHIOB MX
a >' Currahi Mamcodiet
to Baftas Saunas
®" Guzzcflas Tanda Coflaes
>n Guazie. Emertics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
a * Palamj oort Romall
Amongst them are a great proportion of thamao
nufa<slures of Patna.
Britifli Dry Goods,
ALIO,
Forty puncheons of high proof Rum.
February 1$ $
*° Alex. J. Miller & James Davis, .
1_ Having entered into partuerfhip under the firm of
e Alexander J. Miller & Co.
ill TNFORM their friendtin town and country, that
ft X they have opened a V/holefaleDry Good Stora,
ie at No. 64, South Front S/reet, Philadelphia; where
fe they now have, and intend keneping a general a£>
>r foitment of India, German, Jrijb, Frtncb and Brl*
t. tijb Mannfa&uresfor sale, on advantageous lerme
• for caih or a ftort creait.
<J February 19
Landing
From on ioard the Snow Maria, from Cij*r*
hag en,
A few Tons Ruflia Clean Hemp
» 300 pieces Ravens Du< k
250 pieces Ruflia Sheeting
1 »oo bolts Ruflia Duck, and
!• A quantity of Swedes Iron
For Salr by
JOSEPH ANTHONY Csf Qm.
If bo have an Hand,
ift and ad proof Bourdeaux Braedy
4th proof Spanilh ditto
New-England Rum
London Particular} „ , . .... . ...
and C Mideira Wine inJ^ipM
London Market 5 C ft " d quarter CaJ,M -
Old Claret in Cases
, *4 Midi. Coffee just arrived
1 Bell Bolton Beef in barreli
, Mackrell in do.
Halifax Salmon in do.
• A small Invoice of Rhodc-liland Cheese
• Sperntaciti Oil
, Tanncts ditto
No. 1,1,3, Boflon Sail Duck
Ruflia Cordage, and
An Invoice of Dutch Hollow Glass iVare.
Mjrc h i- d«w
FOR SALE,
Subscribers, No. ix, Penn-ftreet,
Tbe Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander,from Bengal,
Ctmfijiing of
Baftas, of various qualities and prices,
sofra5 ofra , e * Punjura Cloth*
kanahs Guzzey do.
o, m^"™ s Charconna Dorea
Blue Clath Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes MulmuU
Mainoodys Checks
Maharagonges Patna Hkf».
Gingham* Mislrnu: d®.
Guzzenas Bandannoes
Gurrahs Sjflerfoy
Piniafcoes Choppa RomaU
Salgatchys Sooty do.
G.li.e Romals Persians of various col.
Neck rulicats
soo tons SUGAR
50,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willings y Francis.
The Piece Goods
?jjt e are ?° W °P £n to sale « 'hat
commodious store she north weft corner of
Market and FoUrth-ftreets.
Also A few Bales of Madraft Hkfg. ofele.
gant patterns and bcil colours,
February 8. dtf
Landing this day,
From on boaed th# schooner Two Friends, Dan
- ... i*l Cr»w!ey, Master,
| Jamaica RUM,
For sale bv
George Latimer b 5 Son.
I nc,r<emher 9.
ROSS & SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, CofTas. and
a quantify of B.ngal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in Lags arjd boxm
Jamaica, }
St. Vijicent", C RUM.
and B *gaj J
300 calks RICF-, and
•A parcel of (hip Wilding RED CEDAR
*7- f
Three or four Single Gentlemen,
may be accommodated with
Genteel Boarding and Lodging
On reasonable terms, by applyire at No fr*
North-Qreet, between Fifth and Sixth-ftrcet.
ew J
Jul Pubiifhed, '
And to be hadl of Messrs. Dofcfon, Campbell, Ri ce
Cary, and the other pricipal Bookfcllers in t Sa
city .price one dollar, twinty.fivc cents,in boards
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America
By BENJAMIN StylTH BARTON, m 0 '
Jane 19. ' '
\Vclume XIII.A i rfc
-g.lie (gazette. t
PHILADELPHIA, w
■■i ar
MONDAY EVENING, A/-**?" i*- tfa
te
FROM. AN EASTERN PAPER.
• Stafonable and candid Thoughts on Party. m
WHERE tfcere i« liberty there will be part e* ar
Many perfonslameMeur party divisions, and wilh f
,nd really fcem to h.pe and expefl that we fcall
soon be agreed, and party m a Iho.-t time entire 7
rooted out. But why (hould we imagme £* w cl
take place which never he, beer, nor c.n be until 0 r
ml „ become a perse* being, and perhaps never
,u -hi t# be, while government newt* ro be watched, ]q
and liberty i» worth witching trr
It is therefore rather unrrtlonahle, if not chi d
ifll, to lament the nidncc: 0 party-it » the U 01
of those who are free, and liberty, m
• Umijb, is a million timet better than iLvi.ry. c<
der a defpotifin, there ara no parties •
Party is ncceffary and ofeful to watch ruler »- ,
Power Uan edge tool, and wild cat and wound ol
the vital, of the public liberty, if party did not Y
keeb it harmless in thefcabbard. Ao lnjivi.ua ,
when wronged, always find, in party.,>*•"«« ; ,i
aSivc and iiittreftcd proteflor. Indeed, without
pal ty at there never hoi been any libert}, 11
proline there never ■will be-n would be too much w
to get rid of both. Nothing lcfs keen and clear
. sighted than party, would ferutinixe public men
,nd mealures as they ought to be.
uis not pretended that party frint.. not an e- T
,il j but it has some good tendency and irfluence. p
AH pirties are not equally similar. Such as go a
to the very bottom of th- principles of our govern
ment, and try to dig op the foundation ttonea, are al
neflilent. 1 here is a great difference between op- tl
prfition to the and the mufure, of a #
and a revolutionary llrife again#He be,n Z . Yet such D
is the objeA of the anti-federahfts. 1 hey are not
numerous, but they exist. Ihe nature ot certain w
amendment, proposed by Virginia, for the coiifti- „
tution is a demonstrative proof o( their exiftcnce, a)
which i. well proved aifo by other circumflance.. „
A party fubfervtent to foreign influence, is alio v
uniformly mifehievous— »• good can torn.««<of it—
it well deserves the name of faOion, and is the woi ft o|
form of the word thing in the world. Ihe two p
e r(at parties in our country mutually eall each otk- h|
*r Freach and Britilh ; and as far as ihefe words of
reproach go, they are even.
But the cafe between thu two parties is not j.ite
even. For the French partizars r penly avow tiicir
love for Frsnce ; and aff.rt that we are bound in fe
rratitude and justice to make great facrifices to her «
cause. It has not yewppeared thut any can be, in pi
their opinion ho grJ. While France wage, a pri- ol
vateerine war upon our trade, they juftify her, and ci
coDi'ernn our own country and government. Many
of them evsn dec:arc, that they would join the
Franch, if they (ho'jld laud here to invade us—
which is uniuaiSaH* on every principle.
Those charged with being British partisans, oil
the contrary, to a man, deny the Charge. Whin t j.
Britain so outragroufiy wronged us in 1794, not K
one of them jnftitied her.—ln oafe Mr. Jay strea- ct
tv had failed, they said we mull fight her. They N
aifc express their fears of a too close connexion s ,
with England, f wefhould hive to fight France.
If, however,"any of this lad dcfc'ription ber«-
ally liritifh panizans, they are to be defpif>d and
tlctcOfd. Prijbabiy they are few. C
Ca*dTalio demands the acknowledgment, that
many of the peifons charged w ' th being too zea
lous (or jFiance, love their own country, and would
net knowingly twind itshappy conilitution l'heir
infatuation tor the ""J' °f Frmeb liberty
has blinded manv very good cyts, and perverted
many hofteft hearts. The honeit m nof the party,
hevweves wiW own that,*h<ry ar< not in good com- S
pany, as some "of the party are both ant -ledcral
and Frenchified. '1 hey ought to turn their backs |,
on such with abhorrence. 5
The dread of the power of government is call
ed f>y many a wife jcaloufy. however, is a f
hli.J pat Con, as well as a llrong r:.c. Ihis at least, j f
it clearvthe mod enlightened daffes of our cm
fens are friends to the government. As they are
likely to fee the danger as soon at others, it is also
certain that no clali of citizen;, have more-to loft by
lofiti" such agevernment as will protest liberty and
property For, let it be obl'crved, that the firil
and furefl fac.ific* that arbitrary power is known
i'o require i$ firoberty. The wealthiest anJ befl in-
fo.med part of our citizens, and probably by far
the greatefl number, are attached to our conditu
tion and govtrnment. If then our governeient be j
really progreffinr toward# tyrannny, as its enemitß
fay, the federa supporters of it are in a miterable
rrror; as their interells and wishes are opposed to
iueh a progress ; an error that calls for all the pity
of the candid among the opposite patty, the fede- *
ralids being thole wh 1 wili fufTtr fir ft, and fuffer
mod, by the introdudion of arbitrary power.—
One party or the other it no doubt in such an error.
Each really thinks the other it wrong. Now
•which of the two parties it mod likely to be mida
ken—the wealthy and thelea.-ned, the merchants,
the clergy, the ui.iverfities, the governors (except
one) ferates aud majorities of affemblics, from Vir
tadv&rd, who admire and support our govern
ment, or the discontented and complaining he ned
nien, few in number; seven eighths of whom are
to be found in the citieiof Philadelphia, New-York
and Boston, who oppose and condemn our public
roeafuret ?
Let every man, notwithstanding, use all the
sense and underdanding he has, and forhcar to pin
his faith blindly on the flceves of theft richand dig
nified people. But at the fame time it is fair and
proper to allc him, when he foes such characters
opposed to hit prejudices, to ufc all the candor and
"judgment he potftffes, before he allows himfelf to
withdraw his affections and lervice* from the con
stituted authorities of his own cotlntry, and attach
es himfelf to one that inl'ults, plunders and wrongs
it.
TKcfo fails are mentioned, a»d these remarks are
fuggeOad with a view to abate the mutual bitter
ness of honed minds an both fidts Ths writer
doetnot di «y for a moment that he is naloufly at
tached to the American cjnditutiou and adminis
tration. But he has brought into its proper place,
at far as h« wat able, every confederation that will
tend to vindicate those who differ from him in opin
ion.
One remark more should not be forgotten In a
time of danger, and iu a threatening crisis of af
flirs, liketheprefent, honed men of all parties should
unite for a time—(and it is only in such a time
that partiot can unite) —and by leaving the British
agents, if any such there be, and the servile toolt
of France, in a very small minority, and in merit
ed contempt, afford to government at lead a tempo
rary confidence and atd. The time callt for it—
at by the appearance of union among hened citi
*eni, and meafurcs of energy in congreft, our
peace, our property, and our national independence
ray evenyethc preserved.
NEW-YORK : March j.
At this crisis of our affairs, when it ap
pear* probable that, after all our efforts to
preserve peace, we 111 all be driven to an o
pen rupture with France, it is a most conso
ling conitdcration, that the differences of
opinion in cur country are yielding to the
preffureofcircumftances, and to a conviftion
of the utter impolGKility of maintaining a
free g»*ernnient, ander the influence of the
irreligious and anarchical principles of
modern theoretical pbilufophcrs. The en-
rVifiafra with which the principles of Ro
f eiu and have been embraced m
France, England and America, is a proof
how much more easily men are led by their
wi/hes and their feelings than by J B<l g I " en * CJ
and experience. But the terrible d.fafter- fe|
that have befallen France, and which threa- g .
ten this country, have brought a furpnz- bl
,'ngr change in men's minds on the fubjedt ot
govemmcnt. Th.' advocates of pure de- e,
mocracy, of reason and morality,
and maintained by education, independent
of a religious system, are every where ahan- o
doning their belief in those principles, and „
clinging to ancient institutions for political t ]
order and fafety. There x is even dang er t;
the hatred of the schemes of visionary a hi- f'
lofophers, may become too violent, and from
a natural vibration of the human mind from
one extreme to another, men may lean so n
much to old habits and opinions, ai to dil p
courage attempts at rational improvements p
These remarks are the result of careful f
observation on a late journey fro si Nev- - v
Yoik to Boston. A great increase of union
In favor of our adminiflration is every where f
visible ;and the foreign nation that attacks r
the Northern States, will find them firm and e
unanimous.
GEORGETOWN, (Potomac) March 6.
Thisday we record a loss lann nteJ bj allGsorge-
Town, and which will be lamented by many other
places; for he lived in the affectionate regard ot n
a widely extended circle cf acquaintance. t
On Saturday evening, bttwecH the hours of II t
and 11 o'clock, in the 55th year cf his age doled r
the active and ufeful life of the good, the jull, „
the generous, the benevolent Colonel Wiliiam
Deakins. . C
T© those who knew this truly virtuous man, it
would be telling a tale long since known, J°^ a y»
that to every child of distress, h» was the lather,
and to every human being the friend. 1 0 thoiC
who knew him not, a recital of his genuine worth,
would appear fulfome panegyric. „
His illnefe was short—but in the retroTpfaion J
of such a Jife r.s his, nothing could be found to
produce'a sting. He met death withoat a?
he had lived withcut reproach.
" The fiv:it remnuhratice of tfojujl t
SbaH jlourijby ivben be Jletps in
Yesterday the funeral ceremony took place. A
sermon was preached by the Rev. Mr. Read. The
corse moved to the grave, preceded by a mafohic
procession, aud lollowed by the largelt concourse
of people ever affembltd in this town on a similar
cccafion, (
Subscription Ball.
The last but one.
Mr. Francis refpe<stfully informs the fubferibers 1
that the third Ball wil be to-morrow evening, the j
13th inft.—Lady's tickets,and non-fubferibers tick- '
cts to be had by applying to. Mr. Francis, No. 70 1
North Eighth Street—or at the Afiembly-room, 1
South Feurth Street.
march 12. It
Virginia Lands.
On Tuesday the 20th inft. will be fold for
Calh, by Public Auction, at the Mer
chant's Coffee-Honfe, at 7 o'clock in
the evening,
THE following bodies of Land in the State
of Virginia, viz.
13,600 Acrei situate on the waters of Big
Steer Creek.
A«rp« on tie wateri of the Little Ken
harva and the weft fork of the Monsngahela.
5c,45a Acres r>nthe waters of Buchannon river.
Particular descriptions of the Lands, and an
cjymination of the titles may be had by apply
ing to
Footman Ssf Co. Auctioneers.
March ii. dt2om
A Wet Nurse wanted,
A healthy Woman, who can be well recommen
ded. Appty at this Office,
march 11* §
A Garden to be let,
FOR a term of years, situate about a mile from
the Court-house, contains about two acres of
land, it a high (late of cultivation. A large green
house, is rreiSed en the prcmife', about forty feet
long, with. I. lodging room, and feed loft above.
A- considerable quantity of kitchen articles, very
regularly difpefed of on the spot.
Enquire at JJ, South Second- street.
march u.
St. Croix Sugars.
26 hogsheads heft ST, CROIX SUGAR,
FOR SALE BV
JCHN NIXON & Co.
Feb. Q * f'm&wtf
FOR SALE,
By WHARTON fef LEWIS,
No 115 South Front Street.
A quantity of TannerVt)il,
4th proof Jamaica Rum, "> entitled to
ift and ad proof Brandy, j drawback.
Madeira Wine,
Juniper Berries, &c. &o.
Feb. 9. * eodtf
Red Clover Seed of the best quality.
MADEIRA WINE,
Old, and fit for immediate use, in pipes, half
» pipes and Quarter casks.
t Teneriffe Wine,
And, Window Glass—all of which will be fold
r on very reasonable terms, by
\John Craig,
No. u, Dock Street,
i, march X w&stf
>1
Edward Dunant,
No 149, South Front-llreet,
1 Has still remaining of the Cargo of the Johanna,
j from Malaga,
, e 66 kegs Sun Raisins
91 jars 6ne Bloom ditto
t- ai hlub. } fu P erior Catalonia Wine
«- Mountain and Malaga Wine, in hogQieads and
quarttr calks
:i- And a lew qr calks fine old Colemenar Wine,
lir He bat slfe % a few packages of
ce Calcutta and Madrals Goods,
Confiftu g of Humhums, Ticktrie®, PatnaChintz
Bandanna, Pullicat and Barhar Handkerchiefs
Choppa Komals, black ai:d coloured Persians, anc
black Pepper.
p- 0- Wanted—A Male and Female
to SERVANT, of unexceptionable characters,
o- march t. '.lteod
OVAL BATTLES.
Quart and half gallon in crater— and a quanti
a * ty of Claret Bottics of a right lize—fcr falc a
on No. 13, Church Alley. JOHN DORSEY
: a 3 taw6w.
h J { Hyi'on and Young Hyson Tea
A few chefls of excellent quality, for sale, coi
n:f of Second and Pine ftrcees. Use j6—cotf
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCh.
BOURDEAUX, January, 14. "
The Courage,u,x, cruiser of M. Miloes, has f,
carried int. the ,fbnd or iSrthar the Amencan t
brie Chriftt«n», from Bremen, loaded with fa- n
z -r, eottoß and iuillgo. Also, the American
brie Fanny »nd Bet fry, with the fame cargo.
M. Cabarus, new jmbaffador.arri-
ed at Paris a few day! apo, and occupies the
ho'el of ths ci-devaut Marfhil de .le Duras.
The reft ot the Venetian vessels hate been e
given up to the French, an<J have ftiW for An- 1,
fona : thus, tlvt town finds itfelf, at this m £
"ent, deprived cf a navy, and the carry.ng off
the iriimenfity of effects, 'ts arsenals con
nined, has rendered it mp»ffibk for them to
farm a new one- , , „
'1 he court of Vienna fias deelared the By f
de cjjipwi;«tiK h*y.<»f fr ' e . p°. ct • c
t,f,i, is the firft ail "f 'he houfe-ef Aoftna }
mariiime Ti is' ihouifht, that Btiona- y
rrarte will not set out for fctftadt before the de-
Uuties of tl e empire fall hare received new and
full power, njore extenfirt than the former, and
which (hall nerniit tlv.m to negotiate upon the c
basis of the treaty of Campo Formim . 1
One of our < orrefponden*» at vVeiel wri es as v
follows : 'We learn this moment (ten at
night) that a French conmilTVy has procUmn- q
ed in the Fruflian provinces on the -eh bank, (
thatthev O.all be united to France, In my
next, I Vhall be able to give y"U further-inlor
t> *■
mation. .
The citizen Leonard Bourdon is lent to Hjm- j,
burph, with a political and financi il mission, as ]
much to examine our commercial relation* at f
that .port, and the 8.-Jg.c ports in general, as .
to aid the proscription, thit the direiflory as
rtfolved to make general, on the a&ual govern-
ment of England.
General JouVart is named as commander in t
chief of our troops in Holland. t
1
BASLE, December sS. (
The diet tofArau, which will, doubtless,, be
remarkable in the Helvetic annals, and which
has already fixed the general attention, will o
pen on the 28th December. It is not yet
known, whethe: a deputy of France will not t
assist, as heretofore: the fccreiary of the ambai- ,
fador of that power has been present at the or
dinary dieti'ofFrecßfeld. ,
PARIS, January 8.
The greatest cire has been taken by govern
ment, to prevent the secret relative to the ope
ration on English gocds, from being divulged <
before its execution. Every municipality in I
the republic had received sealed bundles, with
orders not to open them until the 15th in the
morning, in the presence of the justices of
peace, commiflioners of the police, &c. (
We arc yet ignorant of all the particulars ref
pefling the seizures which have been made ; we ]
can snlv de lare, that, in general, they have
been considerable, in various magazines ot the •
streets of Luxembourg, of the Palace Egalite,
those of St. Dennis,&e. &c- The aftfaifliment
will cease, when we contider that the law of the
tcth Brumaire, was considered as delusive, and
when we call to mind that it strikes the follow
ing obje^s:
j. All kinds of cotton velvets ; all fluffs and
woolen clothi, whether made of cotton or hair,
wholly or mixed ; all quiltings, dimities, non
kinets, and mufhne s, spun woolens and cot
tons, and English earpets.
», All kinds of. hosiery, cotton, wool, or
mixed.
3. Buttens of all kinds.
4. Every kind of plated ware, hard ware,
cutlery, clock work, and other iron, steel, pew
ter, copper, brass, cart iron, sheet iron, tin and
other metals, polilhed or rough, pure or mixed 7
j. Leather, tanned, curried or prepared, work
ed or not worked; carriages pus together or
in piece, birnefs and every other saddlery
article.
6. Ribbons,hats, gauzes, shawls, known to
be English
7. All forts of skins for gloves, breeches or
waistcoats, all those arricles, when manufactur
ed.
t. All kinds of gUfs and ehryftal ware, be
fiden watch gtaffes, fpedlacle glasses, &c:
9. All sugar refined, both in loaves and pow
der.
10. AII forts of earthen ware, known by the
name of English ware.
The law will have every one, who infringes
it, be presented before a carreiftiohal police tri
bunal. Bcfides the confifcatiens of the gckids
seized, the delinquent shall be condemned to a
three fold fine,and to an imprifonment,that shall ,
notbelefsthan hvedays, nor exceed five months.
The confifcaticn shall be pronounced for the
benefit of the captors, or any persons who shall
have favoured the confifcation.
On the day when a feareh was made of Eng
lish goods, J.Aymer, frightened at the military
preparation, which was made on the octafion,
wishing to leave Paris, was known 'nd seized at
the barriers.
The English goods confiscated the last [earch
made at Paris, are estimated at nearly three
millions. Although it be known that one of
the best means ef redueing our tenacious enemy
is to prevent the cirenlation of its goods, yet we
cannot avoid wishing that the measures taken
for that end be such as rather to prevent their
introduction, than:# f'cize them when they are
introduced. BeGdes the inconveniences rcfult
lf ing fiom the inquifiterial visits, which are ne
cessary, it is evident that the hurt falls more
immediately on our citizens,than on our enemy,
who has received the price of those goods.
d
MILAN, November 9.
Gen. Buonaparte quitted Mi.'in yesterday
morning to go and preside over the French le
gation at the congress at Raftadt. Befire set
ting off, he sent to the directory, at Paris, the
colours of the army of Italy, which will be pre
sented by Gen. Joubert. There is upon the
a ' faceof it, • a gratefulcountry to the army of Ita
ly.' Os the other fide, are the names of allthe
battles fought, and places taken, by the army of
Italy. Among other inferiptions we remark the
following :—" 150,000prifoners, ijallandards.
Ss o pieces of ordnance, 600 field pieces, 5 equi
nd pages de pout, 9 ships of the line of 64 guns
11 frigates of 31, ia corvettes, 18 gallies ; at
miftice with the duke of Parma, armistice with
the duke of Modena, armistice with the king o:
Naples, armistice with the pope, preliminarici
tr, of jUoben, cqaventipn oiMontebe'.'.o, with the
ifs! republic of Genoa, treaty of peace with the em
md P eror at Campo Formlo—Gave liberty to th<
people cf Bologna, Ferrara, Modena, Maffi Car
L ] e 'ara, Koniagna, Lombardy, Mantua, Biefcia
Bergamo, Ci ema ; a part of the Veronese, Chia
I vennc, Bormio, and Valteline ;to the people o
Genoa to the imperial fiefs, to the people of th
departments of Corcyre, of the Egean sea am
nti' Ithaca. Sent to Paris a!l the maQer pieces 0
tat Miehel-Ange, Guerchin, Titien, Paul Veronese
;y_ Correge, Albaii, the Carraches, Raphael, Lec
liard de Vinci, kc.
-a. Buonaparte ha 3 promised, in Italy, 1000 f<
:or quins for the best funeral song in memory <
3tf Hoche,
\ ' 1
PARIS, Jan. 6. «"»
We leant from Brussels, that letters re- Tli
ceived there thel2th Nivofe.from Coblentz con
inform, that general Hardy presented him- oth.
fclf before the fortrefs ps Ehrrnbrieften, and
that he lignified to col. !aber, the com
mandant, that unlel's it was delivered up, he 1
fliould be obliged to attack it with all his of 1
force. The latter gave an evasive answer, left
at the fame time demanding a short delay, rials
that he might receive inftru&ions from the tive
eledor of Treves, to whom the place be- of t
lono-s. In the racuu time, batteries are raif- He;
cd on both fides of the Rhine, and Ehren- and
breiften is completely blockaded. this
The Engli(h fleet which left I.ifbon the
ill of November for Gibraltar, laden with
provisions and every kind of warlike stores, _ (
convoyed by the frigates;. Andromache and <">*
AlccmcnV, arrived in the Bay of Gibraltar Pri
where it was attacked by twenty three Spa- the
nifh gun-boats fiom Algeziras. The Prince not
William, a transport, commanded by capt. raei
Smith, and the Tartarus, of London, were hni
taken after a long and obftinatc battle, in 101 l
which capt. Smith loft his life. Thisa'cei- En
dent was owing to a sudden calm. The reft W<
of the English fleet, ponfifting of more than
twenty vessels, got fafe into port. of
Poultier (a Journalist) is astonished at the the
silence which government keeps on the sub- km
je£l of the conspiracy discovered the 4th of cen
December lad. The minister of Police has nifl
madea longreport on the fubjeu , from which
it is concluded, that frefh agents employed
by Louis XVIII. were to have fed their
utmost efforts at the next eledions that none tha
might be sent to the legislative assembly, but cei
true and known royalists. Eighty persons Fri
have been arretted, adds Poultier, in confe- zer
quenee of this discovery. A message was thi
to have been sent to the Council of Five mo
Hundred, relative to this affair; but it seems ane
that some weighty reasons have determined fills
the Direftory to suspend the publication of it '
the particulars of this dark business. fee
We hear from Brussels, that all the troop 3 T1
which were to have marched to join the ar- we
my of England, have received counter or- *er
ders. ' , £
English contraband goods to the amount ri
los thirty millions of Livrcs, have lately de
been seized on the Lake of Geneva.
They write from Stutgarde, of the 23d en
December, that his royalhighnefs Frederick de
Eugene, the reigning duke of Wurtemberg, ce
died that night with an attack of the apo- mi
I plexy.
Thilorier, whe had promised fljortly to dr
publilh his plan for efoajng a descent upon to
England, has just informed the public, that w:
having communicated it to the government, in
he has been desired to keep it secret. zc
ROUEN, Jan. 2.
We can now announce the certainty of 0
the arrest of Chevalier d'Aranjo, the Por
tuguese ambassador, who remained at Paris
after the order for his departure, given him
in consequence of his court having refufed
to ratify the Treaty which had been conclu
ded between its plenipotentiary and [the *
French republic.
Aranjo was sent to the temple, andfeals P
ambassador, who'was formerly viewed in e '
a favorable light, has been the dupe of one J
Wifcovich, a well known intriguer, now in 1
I arrest. This Wifcovich always used to pay
I great court to foreign envoys, from whom
he drew large sums of money, by making v
them believe, that he could warp certain 1
members of the government. M. d'Aran-
jo deceived and abused by this fellow, it is
said, wrote home, that 'with a million more
Ihe could obtain from certain direftors, ad- v
I vantageous conditions for the treaty of
peace with Portugal. The affair of M.
Quirini is somewhat similar, except that the c
latter does not merit as much indulgence as a
,I M. d'Aranjo, to whose principles and mo- r
L rality we cannot but do justice. However, *
[ is an happy circumstance it is discovered,
• | that M. Wifcovich, who was extremely in- '
: timate with several representatives of the c
' people, did ti« confine himfelf to matters 4
of this kind only, but was also concerned in '
. the royalist conspiracies. He is strongly '
, I fufpedled to be an agent of Pitt. *
, By this day's Mail.
f BOSTON, March 5.
* LATEST FROM ENGLAND.
r [Bt a little exertion, we havs been enabled to pro
e I cure London papers to the 13th January, five
I days later than was announced 011 Saturday
I They contain, beside the general information,
I which follows, the lengthy fpeechns of mem
1 bers of the Commons, 011 the new triple
r ' I Tmx-Biil,'he objeift sos which are Hcufes Ser
vants, i>hop«, Watches, Dogs, n.pd other luxu
ries. They do not affcit the Land or Malt-Tax
es, Duties of Excise, Impost, &c. On this mea
y I sure the mmilter was completely triumphant. —
»- I From a view of these prints it appears, thatvi
t- I P or and energy have poffefltd the councils of thi
le I King ; that an order, issued by his Majesty, for
e . ! his officers and foldicrs joining their refpe&ive
le I regiments, was obeyed with thegreattft alacri-
I ty and promptitude ; that the utmost expedition
I is used in equipping and manning the fleets, and
I that from the great naval armament, already
he 1 prepared, and the loyalty of the sailors, the na
tional spirit is much elevated ; many patriotic
I offers are made to the government, among oth-
II I ers Lady Cavendish nukes a donation of 16,c001.
I 118 general promotions have been made ;an
lr " I Ambaffadttr sxtra is appointed to compliment
I his Prussian Majesty on hi* acceflion to the throne,
°" equally sanguine wi;l» the French Directory,
lcs who is empowered to offer the money ond alii
he auce sf a nation, of established and known laws ]
m* [Bsftcn Price Cur.]
he
ROME, December 9.
On intelligence being received of the fur-,
c f render of the fortrefs of St. Leon, the car
he dinal Secretary of the State repaired to the
nd French ambassador Buonaparte, and after
°f wards to the Pope. His holiness imwiedi
ately signed, in due form, an acknowledge
e£>" ment of the Cisalpine Republic. The che
valier Buffy was appointed charge d'affaires
f e . from the iiely See, to the Cisalpine Repub
of lie, and set out the fame night for Milan.
A cabinet courier, and another from the
minister Buonaparte, like wife lent of.
The latter had two letters—one for tli#
commander of the Cisalpine army, and the
other for the Cisalpine Dire&ory.
CHARLSRUHE, December
All the particular envoys of those ftatet
of the empire, whish have territory on the
left bank of the Rhine, have given'mjrno
,rials to the deputation of the empire, r«la
tive to the prevention of the repnblicanlzing
of those countries. The Palatinate, Spires,
HefTe Darroftadt, Triers, Cologne, Essen,
and Thorn, have remouftrateU on
this fubjefi.
HAMBURGH, December 12.
On I* riday lalt an event cis eon(idpnible
importance for this city took p]?ce. The
Pruflian minister notified to a deputation of
the Senate, that his Pruflian majesty would
not feizethe hasfe townsof*Hamburgh, Bre
men and Lubeck, as had been prbpofed to
him, in order to indemnify himfelf for his
losses in Germany, and to (hut up agaiuft the
English the mouths, of the Elbe and the
Wefer.
His Ruffian majesty presented the prince
of Conde on his arrival at Petersburg with
the order of St. Andrews, the order of the
knights of Malta in Poland, and a magnifi
cent palace in Petersburg, completely fur
nifhed.
PARIS, December zB.
Letters from Berne of the 16th ult. Sate
that they had in the night of the Htlj, re
ceived intelligence that a column of ij,oso
Frenchmen were on their way towards Swit
zerland, 011 the fide of Porentruy. Every
thing announces that the object of this
movement was to take poffeflion of Ergueil,
and the valley of Muerftcr,a country in part
fubjedt to the bifhoprick of Bade, and which
it was supposed wasceded to France by f;me
secret articles of the peace of Campo Formio.
The secret council and the council of .war
were immediately assembled, and' souriert
lent to all the cantons. Id the morning an
extraordinary fitting of the council of Two
Hundred took place, in which after-great
debate, it was decreed, that 20,000 men
should hold themfelvesin readiness, to msfrch
en the firft signal. All the signals were or
dered to be in readiness, that in cafe of ne
ceflity the levy in a mass of the inhabitants
might take place with the greatest prompti
tude ; in short, a proclamation is to be ad
> dressed, as well to the German country, as
1 to the Paysde Vaud. It is said that they
will promise to re-establish t'ais last country
, in its antient rights. The state of Swit
zerland is at this moment critical.
PROCLAMATION
f Of the French diredlory to the French
people.
" Paris'tie 17 th Nivafe (6.)
" CITIZENS,
" The legiT—tive body haejuft solemnly
fanftioned the patriotic offering made to the
direftory by the merchants of Paris, by
publishing the law requesting the Englifil
lotn ; tW _exr»n»>Ve jtre&ory will now re
* call to your mind the woiives that must give
you all an interest in the fucctfs in this mea
» sure
" Citizens, conquerors of Europe, you
have none but one enemy,'who lords it ©-
ver the seas, and intendsto exclude y»u fr®m
n them '
" The agriculture, the commerce, and
• the induftryof France, every thing is bound
! down and fha«kled by the English fleet,
j whifch blocks up your ports.
" But it m»re peculin»ly belongs to you,
French merchants, manufacturers, and (hip
owners, to second with all your zeal the ex
1G ample that has been set to you by the com
mercial interest of Paris. Have you liken
ed to the minister of Great Britain, who in
'' farms you with the raoft insulting ostenta
tion, that the English commerce is to that
B " of France as 18 to 2 ; that the imports and
exports do not amount in France to more
than 400 millions, and that is England they
j" amountjto more than seven milliards French!
Have you a moment to lose in baffling those
calculations of English avidity ?
" France ha? been obliged to make a
temporary facrifice of her credit to the fne
cefs of the war. But now vidory ought to
repay its facrifices, and at the fame time se
cure to it tbafy portion of metallic wealth,
and that rank which the nature and extent
ro- of its territory, its [population, its coasts
ive and its rivers, ..challenge and mark out to-it
among the commercial powers. On this,
on> worthy merchants, you ought frrioufly to
Z, refleft. The national credit should be the
er- great foundation of your wealth. You (ee
iu- the aftivity of government in prohibrting
ax " all English merchandize, while it i» equally
,ca ' anxious to open new outlets for the produce
of French industry. The cause we refer
th* you to, is your own. Whatever exertion
for you may make for the fuccels of the war,
liv . e vou will have made fur yourfebes—for the
c . ri " prosperity of your manufa&ures ; for the
jn'i interest of your families ; and for that ot
ady your posterity. _
na- Citizens of every calling, reflect on trte
otlc important consequences which null result
oth ," from the effort which you are about toe*'.
C - n ert in order to humble and punish the pride
Item of the cabinet of London. For more than
one, a century, England has not cfeafed to 1-
Ol l> turb the tranquility of Europe ; her rett
a!"i less and unrelenting ambition has been ever.
rV vexing and turmoiling the continent, ro
J which flie imagined herfelf to be invinci f
separated. Frenchmen, it is your duty M
fur- teach that Island, that notwrfbftanduig
car-' insular fixation, it is by no means inaec *
, the fible, and that you may carry back into it
fter- bosom the calamities which it has broug
iedi- home to your fire-fides. England once di..
tlge- armed and vanquished. a perpetiw P«-
che- from that instant established, and the bad
Hires ance of Europe fettled on a pevmanentba
nub- lis ; for the French republic, too *ro g
'lan. be attacked, will feel no mot.™ to
i the her greatness will set her above the fightsambition, and she will feci no desire of trans
gressing her own limits.
" Your success may, therefore, be ensur
ed. Vanquifb the English, and you seftow
peace on yourselves and on your posterity ;
you communicate its fcleflings to the whole
human rce. Your battles are the lad that
it (hall be neceflary to fight. With yon
Military glory {hall make it? stand, and even
future ages shall not produce any rivals of
- the heroes of France.
" But it is not enough to talk to you of
S'lory. The French revolution, disturbed
rom its fuch numberless obstacles
of every kind, will now be anxious to re
turn towards its source—it ought never to
be forgotten, that philosophy was its prin
ciple, liberty its objeft, and above all, that
its defthder* took up arras for the happiness
of nations. Frenchman, it is your ambi
tion to overthrow the dominion of the Eng
iilh cabinet ; but it is by no meani your
wish to epflave the English people- After
the unchecked success of the republican
arms, that people will owe you the obliga
tion of having rescued them from the weight
ef enormous taxes which oppress their towns
and villages. England shall no longer be
hold 18,000 f»ldiers, J 8,000 foreigners, to
traverse th^ocean to threaten her iuhabitantg
with an immediate servitude. Her king,
by the combination of insulting tyranny,
(hall no lo»ger compel her to defray the ex
pences of these mercenaries who are paid to
enslave her—who would believe it ? Eighty
millions of French livres have b£en thrown
into the private coffers of George 111. to
indemnify him, as elector of Hanover, for
the expences attending the Hanoverians,
who he keeps is pay to maintain hi?defpo- j
tifm over his own British fubje&s.
" Hasten therefore, citizens. to vindicate
the freedom of that nation, whom you fepa- j
wte from the hatred which is due to her
•ppreflors. Let the French, ever loyal and
and ever invincible, approve themselves in
England both the opprefTors of the nu'niftry
and the saviours of its citizens—rThe con
querors of the court aud the deliverers of
the people !
" Be allured too, that EnglilUmen, re
stored to freedom, will hasten to sue for a
glorious peace. The Englilh themselves
cempare the machiavelifm of their govern
ment with the good faith of F ranee, They
themselves have admired the moderation of
the French republic in the treaty with Au
flria. They know that in this contest which
their government compels you to renew,
■whatever may be the event, all the dccifive
, chances are agair.ft England. If France is
victorious in the firft attack, the govern
ment of Great-Britain will tumble to pieces
under the weight of an immense debt. -If
any rt'erfes retard your success, the Eng
lish mnft have seen that nothing can damp
your courage, and nothing weary your?per
feverancc. The more the efforts ofthe French
•re prolonged, the more the debt of indem
nification will augment, and Europe knows
that this debt will be discharged sooner or
later.
" What has been the consequence of
that fornndablefsague wIII ell the cabinet ®f
St. James's had organized against you at
Pilnitz ? 6 7
'• They compelled you to fight for your
independence; yon have conquered Bel
gium. They difpnted the pofleffion of Bel
gium. In defending Lombardy you restor
ed to France the boundary of the Rhine.
The war against you began in 1792, forty
leagues from Paris ; you pint an end to it
in 1797, thirty leagues from Vienna. Eve
ry obstacle opposed to peace has only given
the signal of new viiSlories. O, Frenchmen,
of all parties, the Englilh hav e done you
most evil. Their cabinet has excited your
internal discords. It was it which roused
Europe against you. It was the Cabinet of
St. Jajnes s that armed you against one ano
ther. Turn your arms against it—unite
march to London. There you will extir
pate the causes of all your calamities You
will find at London the advantages of ex
ternal peace and the end of your troubles.
Having no longer any enemies to conquer
5-ou will think only of founding the repub
lic upon repose and happiness.
" You have traversed a long career, and
attained your objeft. Already many con
curring presentiments announce vidWy
The power of enthusiasm has no limits in
France. In order to presage your success,
meaftire only your will. Your enemies have
but one hope, and that is, in influencing
your opinions, if they can, in discouraging
and disuniting you. It is in your own minds 1
that they wilh to eombat you on any other .
ground you need not fear them. Prove by J
the effect, that you have but one sentiment
that every one for himfelf is anxious to con
tribute to the great national work; that e- '
very one, according to his resources, inter
ests himfelf in the proposed loan. Let your
promptitude to accomphfh this objett be '
the omen and the image of the terrible ra- '
pidity with which the expedition must be '
conduded, and be aflured, that at the very 1
news of this unanimous movement, the ca-
binet of London, will already be vanquish- c
cd. n
(Signed) "P. Barras, President. t
" Lagarde, Secretary." r
a
PLAN OF A LOAN > li
rvR DEFRAYING THE EX PENCE OF A
DESCENT on ENGLAND. tl
M To opeu a loan for 80 millions, divid- n
cd into 80,000 shares of 1000 livres each, ' 2
payable to the bearer, and numbered from j tl
one to 80,000. j Q
2. Shares of 1000 livres may be divided 1 le
into two parts under the fame number. i F
3. Twenty dividends to be attached to j b
e?.ch, with an interest of 25 livres each, pay- ■ m
able every fix months, from the ill of Mef- ol
lidornext. j
4. All the holders of (hares to draw eve- a
ry year the premium which (hall accrue to hi
them. at
f. The lenders may advance one half of
their infolrnents in inscriptions, du tier, Ith
f- j ecnfolide; the other half must be paid in mo
ney, one fourth specie, ahd three-fourths in
r- bills.
w 6. One-tenth of the Loan to be repaid
; yearly by a lottery.
Ie 7. The reimburfemeut of the capital of
»t the Loan, and the payment of the interest,
hi to be further secured upon the produce of
■ll the potts.
3f j 8. One-twentieth part of the Aims ad
vanced may be acquitted by the Maritime
jf Prizes taken from the Englilh.
d 9. The names of the lenders (hall be hi
ts norably inferibed in the Archives of the le
:- giflative body.
:o
1- The search after English goods produced
it the discovery of Job Ayme, the late Depu
!i ty condemned to tranfpnrtatisn^v He was
i- at the Barrier, on the point of leaving Pa
r- ri*. This counter revolutionary chief of
ir the South will now be conducted to Roch
■r fort.
n The minister of foreign 'affairs, Talleyrand
1- Perigord, a few days ago gave a grand fup
itPPr» with a ball, to general Buonaparte and
is s Lady, to which more than 4 o perfoiia
w 't r e invited. Tlie circular invitation con-
Q tained the following paflage : " you will, I
:s f ur c,fee the propriety of renouncing eve
r r y fpccies ofdrefs compofedof English man-
ufaftures." 6
i Ihe admin ftration of the department of
Q the Seine has ordered the ftieet of Chante
y. reine, in which Buonaparte resides, to be
n called la rue de la Vfftoire
„ The French government have formed a
r plan to join tht Scheldt to to the Meufe and
u the Rhine by a superb canal.
'• j IS remar kable, (fays one of our Jour-
I nalills) that when Buonaparte let down to
e table at the banquet of the museum, h*i
. j caused the dishes, plates ,and glafles to be
immediately changed."
n LONDON, Jan. 11.
The intelligence from Raftadt, dated 011
_ the 27th ult. Count Mettei'nifh had deliv- 1
f ertd in a note to the Tr n:h Penipotentia
ries rtmonftrating on the Infradion of the j
line of Neutrality, and on the occupation
a of Mentz ; to which the French had retur- !
ned no answer.
From the fame place, we learn, that the j
king of.PriiflTia had communicated to the
f Northern Circle ofthe empire, an afTurance
which he had received from the French, that
J they would attempt no expedition, against
; the northern part of Germany; the French
envoys had likewise repeated to the Depu
s ties of several dates of the empire, that they
_ would undertake no expeditionagainft Han
s over "
f The Countess of Litchneau is detained
_at Potsdam with all her suite, They
P found, in the house of this favorite, to the
amount of 800,00 c florins in bank bills of
Holland; 300,000 rix-dollars in Englifli
bills: 66,000 rix-dollars in Dutch Money;
s 30,000 rix-dollars in jewels; upon her per
r son, the famous diamond of Frederick the
great, which .has been valued at 198,000
f rix-dollars; the porte feuille of the king;
f the letteis of Mr. Pitt, of Bengut, and of
[ Bedeborolka, feve'nteetr -thefts which bo-f
longed to her, were seized on the frontierr
r Saxony. January 13. [
There is to be a grand faft throughout
Great-Britain next month, to implore the
divine proteftion, and success to his majes
ty's arms.
ADMIRAL DE WINTER.
t ExtraS from Admiral de Winter's Speech on
his public entry at Amjlerdam on the nth of
t December.
" Citizen Ctuncellors and Fellutv Bur- '■
' ghers. ■
" 18 with the most grateful acknow- '
I lodgements I receive your congratulations ; '
p and I rejoice in the consolatory fatisfadlion
to find asyfelf once more in the territory of '
my native country, and again to rcfide in !
the midst of my worthy fellow citizens.
| The fortune of War formerly forced me. '
for a while to live abroad, and being since
for the firft time, vanquished by the enemy | 1
I have experienced a second date of exile, j 2
Mortifying to the feelings of a man who f
loves his country, the fatisfaclory treatment j
I met with on the part of the enemy, the 1 ,
English, and by the humane and faithful ! .
support and assistance they evinced towards ! f
my worthy countrymen and Fellow fuffer- j
ers, whose blood flowed like torrents in "
their country's cause, have considerably f
foftened the horrors of myfituation—nay,
worthy Burghers! I must not conceal
from you, that the noble liberality of the
English n?.tion since this bloody contest,
jultly entitles them to your admiratieß,"
BALTIMORE, March 8
The following is a translation of Victor
Hughes's Proclamation.
The special agents of the Directory of
the French republic to the Windward If- 11
land, on a report that has been made to
them, that on the firft Pluviofe Jan. 20)
the day before the celebration of the anni | n
Verfary of the punishment of.the last king n
of the French (being Sunday) several A- a.
meriean captains met to deliberate, whether <c
the) fhauld not appear to participate in the ''
rejoicing, if they should hoist their colours
as uiual, and that the greater number, re- ''
lu&ant to such difcuflions, withdrew
Further, on the report of the major of
the navy, who having observed several A
! merican vefTeb without their colour* on the j;,
ad Pluviofe, he addreflcd capt. Nicholfon of
the ship Charles of Baltimore, William
Gordon, supercargo, they answered inso
lently, that they were not indebted to the tii
Prench republic, nor to our government,
but to the king of France, whom we had
murdered ; and that they were of the party
of Meflrs. JOHN ADAMS and JOHN S ;,
JAY, who governed their countiy ; adding n
a thousand other impertinences which they Dt
had uttered and approbated the day before
at the meetiHg— '
Considering, that since the conquest of Z
the colony from the English, the Ameri- -
0- 4 cant have been put on the fa »e footing a?
in the French, and h :ve f»lly enjoyed the fame
liberty of felling, purehafing and travelling
id without bring liable to ar.y duties or search
ing whaterer—privileges which they owe
of r-t» none but republican munificence—
ft. ! Considering, that the government, with
of J out wishing to oblige Americans to partici
pate in their republican feaflu, has on the
d- contrary, every year given orders to the
»e men of war aad public functionaries to con
cur in the celebration of the epoch of their
•- independence—
e- Considering, that foreigners are bound by
the police and laws of the country they fre
quent ; and that the words and behaviour of
?d Captains, Nicholfon, of the (hip Charles
n- of Baltimore, William Gordon, ftipercar
go ; Low, of the schooner Deborah, of
a- Boston ; Eltin, of the fcliooner CJoliah, of
)f New-York; Roberts, of the brig Hazard,
J- of Boston ; Oaks, of the schooner Adven
ture, of Glocefter, are criminal, and done
id in contempt of the government of the port
'- wherein they are received, and by whom
d are prote&ed while thjey (lay—
1J Considering, finally, that such an offence
is not to be left unpunished, anjd desirous
I to prevent the penalty from falling on the
: owners, and to strike the offenders in the
1- mod sensible manner—
Rcfolve, That captains (as before menti
>f oned) (hall personally pay as a fine into the
:- hand» of the municipal administration of
ie the Port of Liberty, a sum equal to the
duties which their ships and cargoes were
a , liable to pay under th* reign of the last
d j KING OF FRANCE, before the foun-
I dation of the republic ; and that the funds
"- proceeding from these fines (hall be applied
0 only to the relief of such Americans as bav
* ing been pressed by the English, come daily
e to our coafls is frail boats at the risk and pe
ril of their lives, and also to individuals of
the fame nation, who.n the barbarity and
cupidity of captains have induced them to
n abandon afliore, being sick and without as
: - | fiftance, and thus left in the hospitals at the
i- j charge of the republic,
ej Resolve further, That the present AR
n j RETPE (hall be printed in French and
! Englifti, to the number of 3000 copies, at
; the cxpence of the said captains, and that
e 1 it (hall be polled up, distributed in the de
e partment, and sent by every opportunity to
e the continent of America,
t And, considering that the colony is de
-1 clared in a (late of (lege, they enjoin on
h the general commander in chief and on the
- municipal administration, to caitfe the pre-
Y sent to be executed and to give an account
- thereof.
Port of Liberty, the Bth of Plu
i viofe,in the 6thyearofthe French
8 j Republic, one and indivisible.
e (Signed)
' Victor Hugues k Lebas.
1 Andre, Secretary General")
; of Agency. J
———————————
J dinette*
f PHILADELPHIA.
P | MONDAY EVENING, March 12.
t
The following paragraph which appeared
in the Aurora of the 6th instant, is evident
ly the produ&ion of a bitter enemy to the
; honorand independence of the United States.
f No American can be the author, it i» the
work of some imported felon, for all the na
tive jacobins in the Union do not colle&ive
ly, possess fufficient brass, to to have com
posed and published so many lalfehoods in 1
the fame compass. I
| " From the beginning of the present war 1
. down to this time, the conduit of our ex
ecutive has been a series of ill offices towards '
France. It was not fufficient to reje£l her
advances for a closer union. The declining 1
ijpf such a scheme was proper, perhaps or o- i
j therwife. But for the bare proposal, France ]
| and her ambafladors have been loaded with t
jas many reproachful paragraphs, essays and 1
I letters, as would fill johnson's folio diftion- t
| ary. To these, the virulent letter from a
J Pickering to Charles Pinckney and the in- I
j flammatory correfpondenceof Pinckney him- c
j felf, printed by Congress Ik'ft' Summer, we
| may, in a great measure, ascribe the marked {
; eontempt, ia which the American envoys t
have been held at Paris." t
Scotland take back thy gallows son, r
Andlet thr halur have its own; c
On prior r.ght, Eichc can't refufe ]
Hi« lying cat'rer to the roofi—
For at a very nhraJVate price, '
His place i« filled ia a trice;
And if 110 better, faition's den holds,
Take Tenny C , ordo&orß . f
c
MR. pi VNO, £
Pleat'e to publish the fallowing fjtf in your
next ;—<
On Saturday last a poor man returning from
rnatket, had the misfortune of ge'ting his cart
flailed on the Germa B 'own rosJ, an endeavor
ing to extricate it, luv l; himfeif Co deep in the t
mire as to flick fall ; i n attempting to use his I
arms f»- his relief, they also funk in so deep as
to be i.fe!«i -/n this helpleis, distressing fitua- .
lion he .ell,and no doubt would have periflieri,but
for the timely afllßancc ( hich wa, with great *
difficulty afforded) of some humane persons f
palling by. 0
ERRATA. a
- In the piece signed " iNiiioEvoos" pub
lifted in Saturday's Gazette, firiTb'rie, l a st
paragraph, for doftriiiei— read drjliny. I
C 5" " Milo" is unavoidably omitted
till to-morrow.
PRICE OF STOCKS. I
Philadelphia, March 7, I 708.
Six Fer Cent. 16/g t
Three per Cent. t
Deferred 6 per Cent. rt/b f
BANK United Stafs, 11 per cent.
/ nn JVlvai> f per cent. -J
North Amen a, JO per cent. J
InfuranreCo. Pcnnfylvaiiia, 30 V
-N. A. fliarer 45 per cent. b
.5 MR. FENKO,
e FttbWe notice has b *e-i given by the fecre
g tary of the treasury of the United States,
- that the act of cougrcfs laying duties on
e (lamped vellum, parchment and paper, is to
be in force from and after the firft day of
- July tnfuing, and that amongd a variety
- of enumerated articles, there will be levied
e and collefted for, any Protest or other no
e tarial a£l, a duty of twenty-five cents : and
- as congress have a supplement to the said
r aft under ciKilideratiou, permit me to state
a faft and an obfervatien refultiug therefrom
i which have undoubtedly escaped their no
- tice, Thst is, a great variety of affidavits
f and certificates which are adminiltered and
s attested by the Notaries public, in the sev
eral dates, and are of cou'rfe denominated
f notarial a&s, are also adminiflered and at
f tested by the judges of the fupretne and o
, ther courts, mayors, aldermen andjuftices
- fcf the peace, but do not come under that
: denomination, and therefore no duty can be
levied or colle&ed for the fame : In coufe
-1 quen«e whereof, it is naturally to be pre
sumed, that unless an alteration is made,
: the business of the former, will in future
1 considerably decrcafe, that of the latter
: will of course proportionably increase, and
: that the contemplated reveaue will thereby
be greatly dimimfhedi
A friend to Gevemment as in'il at
: equal jujl'ue.
• GAZ ETI E MARINE LISI.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
v ARRIVED. DAYS
' Ship Tenneflt-e, Smith, Hamburg via Havre 63
A<aive,Rnfe, Norfolk 3
United Sratep brig S ,phia, Maley, N. York 3
Brig Maria, Sherer, CharlHlon 9
r Schr. Maria, Smith, Porta Kico 21
Favorite, Shaw, OharJefion 13
El'ia, Little, New-York 4
Maria Matilda. Moore, Havannah 14
Sleop Millriver, SViockly, New-Providence 11
IVlary& Salfr, Pradtord, Haffamaquody ic
Hliixabeth, Ryan, Newburypcrt 1
Sally- Otter, Norfolk 4
Friendship, Whiting, N'w-York 4
Fox, Noiton, New-Bedford 6
CLEARED.
Ship Old Tom, M'Keown, Londonderry
Gen. Waflnngton, Yl'Kafky do.
Fair American, Treadwell, New York
Brig Silly, DofTon, Isle of France
Clar fla, Nichols, Curracoa & Aux-Cayes
William, Goe, Antigua
Schr. Little Fanny, Fofdick, St. Thomas'.
P f KSVi Whelan, St. Domingo
Telight, Dana, Port-au-Prince
Ranger, Andrews, Bollon
Katy, Trefethen, Partfmouth
Sea Flower, Man, Frederikfburgh
Sloop Brilliant, Watson. North Carolina
Arrived, (loop Sally and fane from the
Havanna (via Norfolk 4 days.) The day
after leaving the Havaana, was boarded by
the privateer Lark, of New-Providence and
after examination, allowed to proceed.
Schr. Elizabeth, capt. Skinner, one of
the fleet from Port-au-Prince is loft on cape
Henlopen—cargo damaged and saved.
The (hip Voltaire, Bowen, from hence !
has arrived at Hamburgh in 29 day*.
The Refolntion of 74 —Asia 64 —Assis-
tance 50-— 1 opare 36 —and Lynx of 24
guns, British (hips of war, lay in Hampton
roads the 4th inft,
Capt. Moore informs, that he left at the
Havanna the 24th ult. the (hip Harry, Eh
ruftroon of this port from Gonnives—Schr,
He£tor, , do. Slooop Mary, Gamble,
do. to fail in 4 days, the Brig Sufannab,
Lewis, of and for this port failed the day
before the Maria Matilda.
Capt. Smith of the Schr. Maria, from
Porto-Rico, spoke Feb. 25. lat. 30. 37.
long. 69. 50. the (hip Caroline, Ruth, of
Charleston, out 34 days froip the Havanna
toTurks-Illand—March4th fpoketheSchr.
Betsey; owt 14 days from Gonaives to New-
York.
Capt- Smith, of the Tcnneffee from Ha
vre, spoke the 25th January, the brig Walh
ington, from Bordeaux to New-York, out
17 days February 23. lat. 38. long. 63,
the schooner Polly, out 6 days from New.
buryport for Cadiz, had fprurig a leak,
thrown their deck load of lumber overboard "*
and were thenbearing away for Gaudaloupe I
March, lat. 37. long 61, a Danish brig,
out 62 days frotn St. Übes to Baltimore.
Capt. Maley, of the United States brig
Sophia, 3 days from New-York, informs
that on Friday last, about noon, he saw near
twenty fail of veffsls, several of them square
rigged; apparently (landing in for the Capes
of Delaware—Also that a few days since* a
French privateer was loft on Hatterafs, and
that part of the crew had arrived in New-
York.
Capt. Porter of the (loop Sally 4 days
from Norfolk, informs that lie fpokv yester
day under cape May, the fchr. Mary, , -
from Surinam.
Schr. Orion, Pryor, from Aux-Cayes ;
Betsey, Tice, Alexasdria ; Betsey,
Norfolk—are below.
Letters sent from hence to Liverpool by j
the Clothier, were received about the Ift of
January. w
Arrived on Saturday, the Revenue cut
ter, capt. Roach, which veffelhas b*en down
the river and bay, with several gentlemen,
for the purpose of examining into the state
of the several piers therein,.
! he brig Pilgrim of New-York is taken
and carried into New-Providence. -
w
BALTIMORE, March 9. Fl
Arrived on Thursday evening, brig Mercu
ry, captain Lee, 10 weeks from potter- b<
dam, and seven from the Lizard. Capt. at
Lee has favoured us with the following:
On th- 23d of December failed from r{
Rotterdam, in company with the schooner 01
Catharine, capt. Cox, ofMarblehead, bound
to Boston. On the 29th of December, par
ted company in the channel, in a heavy g a l« 1
from the westward. When capt. Lee, fai
led capt. Parker, of the (hip Sidney, of
Baltimore, bour.d to Liverpool, capt. E- ~
verly 0 f ,he (hip Liberty. Alexandria,
bamd to ditto capt. Black, of the (hp
j Alexandria, hfaxnd to S(. UW«, all ft
f- | Rotterdam *o go to their fbips lying' ;-t
s, , Helvoctftuyl.
>n j Left it Rotterdam, ship nf
to I Portland, capt. Dyer} (hip Hancock, of
jf ( Boston, capt. Heives; hrig ,
J j Story of Nowburyport; and a brig belong
ed i ing to Philadelphia, juit arrived, name ui>
>- known.
d 1 Just before capt. L. failed, arrived rt»ip
d Thomas, 'aft from Shields, (England.)
e , On the 30th December spoke the (nip U«
n i nion, of Baltimore, capt. James Porter, in
)- | distress, having loft his tn iinmaft last fiom
:s 1 Hamburg, bound to Baltimore, but then
d bore away for the Texel.
February 3, in lat. 23, o*, N. and long,
d 33, 00, weft, was boarded by a Portuguefr
64 gun (hip, from the Brazils, bouud to
i- Lifhor; after orer-hauling our papers and
:s searching the hold told us we might pro.
t ceed.
e Feb. 5, in lat. 22, 3c, N. and long* 36
30, weft, fell in with a fleet of seventeen fail
•- at fix A. M. was boarded by a boat from
', one of them; it was an armed (hip called
e the Union, and belonging to Brifto), last
r from Cork, bound to St. Vincents: They
d all failed from Cork the xoth of January,
y with convoy with about 150 fail more, but
got dispersed the 17th of January, i& a ve
t ry heavy gale of wind.
Feb. 18, in lat. 23, 04, N. and long.
62, 00, weft, spoke brigantinc Hanrteh,
of Newburyport, from Boftou, bound tt>
. Curraeoa, out 20 days.
Feb. 24. in lat. 28, 10, N. and long.
69, 10, weft, spoke the (hip Carrollton, of
3 Charleftoßj from the Havannah, bound to
j St. Thomas's, out 28 days.
! Extradl of a Ittter from a gentleman of in
} format ion at Havre, to his friend in tbw
1 city, dated,
| Havre, Jan. 9, 1798.
( " The next material thing to acquaint
1 you of is, that the war is Itill likely to rage
with England—that a dtfeent on that coun
try is resolved on, and will be attempted in
1 a ma»ner to aftoni(h the world— and
1 that eur commiflioners have not, " nor will
not" do any thing with this
, which 1 have by letter from general Pinck
ney, of the 4th in ft. from Paris. You
will of course conclude, that there will be
no more security for our flag; and thisidc3
I heg most fcrioufly to impress on your
mind as a fail not to be misconceived bjr
, the meanest capacity. There was a propo
sition made a few days ago by the dire&ory
to the councils for a law to capture " all
neutrals" on which (hall be found any ar»
tide the growth, produce, or mannfa£lure»
of England, or any of her dependencies,
and I have little doubt b»t it will take cf
fe<ft."
" The PrufGan alfe late announ.
ced to the Senate oK Hamburgh, that the
king, his master, in consequence of the late
changes and arrangements made in the Ger*
manic empire, would take pofftflion of that
city, with the consent of-this republic.—
This news, however is not public, bat I
believe it to be true."
n——mm
NEW-THEATRE.
MONDAY EVENING, March 12,
Will be prefer,tail, the Hifiorical Piav of
COLUMBUS ;
Or, A World Discovered,
With the Comic Opera of
The SPOIL'D CHILD.
JUST RECEIVED^
PROM rORT-AU PKINCI.
And FOR SALE, by the SUB&CRICZRS,
110 hhds. Coffee
s6 tierces d®.
100 barrels do.
100 bags do
no hogtheadsof M ufcovado Sugar
80 barrels of do.
40 hogftieads of Molasses
4 bales of Cotton
2 hogsheads of Cocoa
WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
Penn-flreet,
march n. j
Landing fjom on hoard the ship
TennefTee, * jpt. Smith, from Hamburg
And FOR 6ALE by the Subscribers,
.325 pieces Quadruples Silefias
400 do. Platilias
100 do Creas
5 2 do. do. Ala Morlaix
ICo do. Dowlas
20 do. red stripe i A rabias
20 o. blue Guineas
100 doz«» bordered Handkerchiefs
Eric & Leivis £ oilman n,
T2 3» South ftreet.
ALSO. O.V HAND,
A cafe of printed Muslins and Calicoes
_ march ll - fßt
For Boston,
COMMERCE,
R'chard Waistcoat, MaJltr.
' ° dew a 7 s - "
An ? freight that may .far,
wiH be taken on very
or pafiagc, apply to the Captain, or to
Isaac Harvty, jun.
St South Wi.ter-rtra t.
I "' rch "• _ §TW
Hibernian Society.
A Special me ting of the Hibernian Sorie'T
fo . r !"* Relics ° f -'-migrants from Ireland,
vj".'! he held at Mr. M'Shane'., Tl.irJ-rtrert, on
Friday i.ext, the 16th i-.ift. at 7 o'clock in the e
venicg,
, T h , e /™' V< f arj Meeting of the Society, will
be held at the fame place oh Satur ay the 17th in l '-
at one o clock p. m.
Dinner will he on rouble at half after tire.,
rhofe who intend to diriff with the Society gr.
SBK SI'"""" - •»
M*™* <!»«„. W-.
■ - djt
The Creditors of the late MrT
'John Gould
A-e rcqu?ftcd to meet at th- hcufe of Wi'.
h labmnfc, VVjlntt rcir Tr .rt :(rret, on Thuri
Ihr/.,' Inft 31 6 °' clocit :n the evening,
M ttreasury department,
MARCH I. *9B.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
lNcurfua ß ce.fth«A<Sof C.ngreft faffed 00 the fi«h day of July ooe thoofand
n ' r-f v n entitled 44 An A A laying duties on Mamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper ,
A a f o'n the fifteenth day of December, one thousand seven hundred a ™° cty *\ a cnti .
"V.ASto pc .''none for * limited time the commencement of the dat*. l "»P u Jk d ? the
tl d - An Ait laying Dutie. on Stamped VeUum, Parchment and aoJ collec
ts .1 <Ly of J«ly cnf.ing. the fcveral Stamped DuUe. hereafter enumerated, wih
led throughout ibc United Staui.
For every He in or piece of Vellum or Parchment, or (heet or piece » f P I P"-*P OB wh,ch & be
written or printed any or either of the inftrnmem. or wr.ung.follow ng-t» »" ■ DUO} m
Any Certificate of Naturalization. - - - " * ( 5
Any Licence to pra<fiice,or Certificate of the idmiflion,enrolment •» re F
any Counsellor, Solicitor. Attorney, Advocate or Protfor, in a ß y Court ot the
PnLu*dl that a Certific.te in any one of the Courts of the United State,
for one of the said Office., (hall si» far at relate* to the payment of the
daty aforefaid, be a fuflkieut admission in all the Count of the Un-.ted
State., for each and every of the said office*.
Aay Grant or Letter. Patent, under the seal or authority 0/ the United State.
(except for land, granted for military service*) - * 4
Arv exemplification or certified copy of any such grant or letters patent, (
cept for land, granted for military service.) -
Any Charter-Party, Bottrmry, or Refpondentia Bond, - - 1
Anv Receipt or discharge for or on account «f anyLegacyleftby any Will or •-
ther telhmentary instrument, or for any (bare or part of a P^ so "'.J ftlt '
vided by force o! any Batute of distributions, other than to the Wife, Uii
dren or Grand Children of the person deceased.the amount whereof (halt be
above the value of Fifty Dollar., and (hall not exceed the value of One Hun-
WhcB d the'imount thereof (hall exceed the value <,f One Hundred Dollar, and
(hall not exceed five hundred dollar., * ".. " , -5°
And for every further sara of Five Hundred Dollar., the additional sum of ,
Any Policy of Insurance or inflrument in nature thereof, on auy (hip, veilel or
good, insured from one difiridl to another in the United State., l 5
From the United State, to any foreign port or place, when the sum for which
Insurance i. made (ball not exceed five hundred dollar., - S•
When the sum insured (hall exceed five hundred dollar., " J
Ary Exemplification, of whst nature soever, that (hall pas. the seal of any
Court, rtherthan such a. it may be the duty of the Clerk of such Court to
fornift for the use of the United State, or some particular slate, - jo
A«T Fond, bill single or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, proniiffory
note or other note,other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrafl, made to or wiih the United State, or any state, or far their
use refpedlively, - - - - *
If above twenty dollar, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 10
Jf above one hundred dollars ar.l not exceeding five hundred dollar., 15
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollar., 50
And if above one thousand dollar., - - • - " 75
Provided* that if any bond, or note, (hall be payable at or within sixty days,
such bond, or note, (hall be fubjeA to only two fifth parts ct the duty
afereftid—viz. - "
If above twenty dollar, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, - 4
It above one hundred dollars a,d not exceeding five hundred dollars, 10
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding one thoaiand dollar., %o
If above one thousand dollars, - - " 30
Any Nctes issued bv the banks now eftablifted, #r that may hereafter be eltab
liftcd within the' United States, other than the notes of such of the said Banks
as (hall apref tij an annual compofhion, ol one per centum on the annual di
viders made by such Banks, to their Stockholder, relpedlively, according to
;l»e following scale. - * t
On *ll notes not exceeding fifty dollar., for ea.h dollar, -
On zll rote, above fifty dollars', and not exceeding one hundred dollars, 50
C n all notes above one hundred dollar, and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - * " 1
Ob ail notes above five hundred dollars, - 2
Any Protest or other Notarial a<£l, - - - - • >5
Acy Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid pen 60s, or to obtain or fell war
rants for Land granted by the United States as bounty for military service.
performed in the lite war, - - - *S >
Any Certificate or Debenture fcr drawback of Customs or duties, for left than
five hundred dollars. - - * 1
For five hundred dollars and net exceeding two thousand dollars, 2
For more than two dollar., - - 3
Apy note or till of goods or merchandize to be exported,
If from oiir dTftrid to another diftriA of the United State., not being in the
ft me State, ...» 10
If ftom the United States to any foreign port or place, - - §5
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, good, or effects, made in any
c.fe required by law, (except in ctles of goods and chattels distrained for
rent or taxes, and goods taken in virtue of any legal proceft by iny officer,) jo
Any Certificate of a Share in any Insurance Company, of a Cure m the Bank of
tile United State, or of any State or other Bank,
If above twenty d -Har. and eot exceeding one hundred dollars, - la
If above one handred dollars, ... 2^
If under twenty dollar., at the rate of ten etnts for one hundred dollar..
n.
The duties aforef aid will be colle&ed and received by the Supcrvifors, InfpeSor. aud other Officers
t»f InfpeJlion, is the fever*! Diflrifl", Survey# and Divisions of the United StatA, and by fuck other
persons at (ball from t» time be specially appointed and employed by the Suptrvifors of Diliridts for
that purpose.
HI.
"The Supcrvifors of the several Diftrifls will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and a. soon a.
may be piafiicable, mark or (lamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcels as Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with ny ef the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of the said duties ; Or
damped vehum, parchment and paper n.av at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rales prescribed by law, by application to any Supervilor, InfpcSor, Officer of Infpe&ien,
or othir ptrfon appointed for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervisor. of Diftrids.
GIVEN under my Haui, at Philadelphia
tie day and •tear abvoementitred.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secret ary of the Trea/ury.
NOTICE.
ALL pcrfons who have any demands again!)
the eflatc of Willam rif tWTOOD, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceafcd, are rtquefted to exhibit their accounts,
properly attested ; and thole who are indebted
to the fame, are dcfired to make immediate
paTment, to
GEO. DOBSON, ♦ ~ ,
No. ,5, So. Third-Areet.} Admin, fi r '
January 4. dtf
Just Published,
And to be had at the Book-flcres of MeOrs. Do»»
son, Cawmill, Yousc and Oiu«sd,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caules and Cure of Remitting #r Bilious
Fevers.
• To which it .annexed y
AH ABSTRACT of the op ; ni&ns and pra&iceof
different authors : and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting inter eft ingfa&s and icfledtiens relative to
the Syncctus iScroidtj t or Yellow Fever, which
has occafiooed so much diftrefo and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the seaport
towns of rh« Ignited States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE.
Felow of the Philadelphia College of f hyficians,
and Member of the American Philoop hical So-
Feb. I—*3m§
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground j
SITUATE on the ncrth-eaft corner ef Wal
not and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
Heufe square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
oa Walnut street, and one huudred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there* are at
present two fnull two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Also, J»r Sate,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient flnres, wharf, «ie. funateon
Water street, between Mulberry an J Saflafras
Streets, containing in front on Water ireet fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, the* widening so the
fovth thirteen feet fix inches. The ft houses
have the convenience of a public alley
l:;g »n the north fide, and area very defirablefit
uatio« for a a merchant, flour faflor, or others
who may have occafiou for florage of goods.
Thit property will tc fold on very reafcir.able
terms for rash. For furthar ir.. r artr,ition apply
to rhe printer.
July jr. mXwt(
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subrcriber, ptopofing to contraS hit busi
ness, offers this Eftjie for file, on moderate
terms. On it »re one BlaPt and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of ftooes ; also a good Forge, all
in perfefl repair, as are all the Water Works connect
ed with tbcfc various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built for the purpofc of calling Cannon
for tbis State.—There are about two thou (and acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood, theother
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Pallure. The Cannon lately mamilatWed there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
(uperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to aify in the world ; for not oue of sixty-nine guns
lately made, although feme of rhe 14 were bored
tnt»3i pounders, have failed on proving. The fiiu
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufafture, aad a place of arms lying in the Rate
of Connedicut.and only 30 miles from several land •
ings on the Kudfon's river, and having every advan
tage that can result from • plenty of water issuing
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufefbl pur poles. The purchaser can beaccommodat.
Ed with all the flock and utensils, and have pofTefCon
on or bel»re the firfl of June next, and preparation
may be made in the meat time for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every p»u will be delivered
lr. good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. lie. For
term., apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, Elq. one of the Reorefcntatives
in Congrefi for this State; Mr, B,vid Waterman, an
theprerrufes, or to the proprietor is New-York
WILLIAM NEII.SON.
Dee. t. 3iwt f
A 0 T I C E.
A ManufaSary of yclhw and delft ixrare,
Such as never was in this Country betorr, has been
been lately erefted at Tivoli, Red Hook Landing,
onifce East Bank of Hudson's River, ttarc of New-
York, where any article of vaiious forts arid shapes
may be executed, as well as earthern floves upon a
new confliufiipn, that favrs three fourths of the fuel
commonly used in call iron floves or open chymoies •
ir.ey are bifida very whole some and ornamental, bv
applying to '
J. MOUCHET,
» anted a fkillful hand to attend to the biking and
glaring part of tbe faii ware. Ceneroua apaoiat.
meats wiU be given. Aoplv uik ve, or to
DAVID BROOKS, Efo.
v . No. 71 Sooth 3 tb Street.
Tfh - '?• eod 4 w
Wanted, to Hire,
A 1 ar g e convenient HOUSE, in or near
L 1 'he tentreof the city—for which a generous
rent will be green; to be taken for a year, or on
more for a longer term. Inquire 0/ th« Printer
0a - eotf
PROPOSALS,
Insurance Company of North America.
For Insurance against Fias, ° D .,P /"jfj
Houses, Ware-Houses, and other BniMmg*
on Goods crtnwned h' such B«il<h»g») diftan. from
Philadelphia, ia the United States.
I. Commui lufurances, on hazards of the firft
class, will be undertaken at » premium of ahout
half per tent, per annum. For extra haear ous
rifqaes a larger prerr.iim will We required, w i .
will vaiy according to cireomftances, feidom ex
ceeding one per cent, per annum ; but in some m
(tances, where the property insured a not on y i
itfclf extra hazardous, but rendered still more
by the vicinity of extra hazardous bo. ding* anc
occupations, the premium demanded will be ratl.d
according to circumftacces.
Howies and Ware Houses, tKe walls and parti
tions of which are wholly of ftonc or jric. , vre
corftruAed, so a«» b» guarded as well *«may be
againlt fires from within, and tree trwffl extra_ ha
zardous building, and occupations in their neigh
borhood, will be deemed hazardous of the flrlt
cUss, and may be insured to their iV i value.
Also Goods' and Merchandize, not o< an extra
bazarJous kind, in cifks. bales, or packagss, de
pofitcd in foch buildings, to an amount not ex
ceeding 400 c dollars ; bat if more than this sum
is required to be insured in one tenemcat, an addi
tienal premium will be required, in proportion to
circumftaases. ,
11. Insurances will also be made on buildings and
goods extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to the risque. But it is not easy to arrange these
under particular heads or dalles, so as to describe
each withthe neoeflary accuracy. Each cafe mud
therefore be decided upon according to the circum
tlancesattending it; and these circumftanees will,
in general, appear from the defcriptioii accompa
uy.ng the application, t
Bu Idinjjs partly confVni&ed of brick or stone,
are preferable to thefc wholly wooden. And in
both cases, the stile of building, how they are oc
cupied, how they are situated, the neighboring
buildings, and how occupied, are c«n6derations to
be taken into view. And with refpe3 to goods,
their'tendency, whether from their nature, or
from the manner in which they are txpofed, either
to commence or to incrcafe an accidental fire, and
their liability in fucb state to receive damage by
wet, or by sudden aid hafly removal, or to be sto
len in time of confufion and hurry, are all cir
cumstance* of weight; and the premiums must be
proportioned accordingly.
-111. The followi%r conditions are to be under
flood by the parties .
lit. The Insurance is not binding till the fiipn
lated premium be paid ; but it (hall be deemed ef
fectual from the time of futh payment and accep
tance thereof, whether the policy be immediately
signed or not.
«d. Infurafices may be renewed at the expira
tion of the terra of the policy, without further ex
penfe< than the payment of the premium of the re
newed terra, the circumftancescontinuing the fame
as they were understood by the Insurers at the time
the former insurance was mad* ; but the payment
of the premium it efTential to such renewal; and
if the party insured fuffers any time to elapse after
the expiration of the former insurance, before he
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
during such time ; nor can the insurance be renew
ed on the former polity but by computing the
commencement of the renewal from the expiration
of the former mfurance. The fubjeA of insur
ance may nevertheless be open to treaty for a new
insurance.
3d. Tf any other infuraace be made on the fame
property ; it mud be made known at the Unit of
application, otherwise the policy made on such ap
plication will be void.
4th Goods held in trust, or on consignment,
may be insured as such in a separate policy ; but
they are not to be considered as insured otherwise.
5 th. This company will not be liable or accoun
table for k any loss or damage occasioned by anyfor
elgn invasion, or by any military or ularped force,
or by reason of any civil commotion ; or occasion
ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or other thing of the
like kind kept in the building, or imongft the pro
perty insured.
Bth. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Soro
rities, Title Deeds, Money, Bank and other pro
miflory Notes, are not included in any insurance ;
nor are paintings, nedali, jewels, gems, antique
curiosities, or mirrors exceeding the valae of twen
ty-five dollars each, to be conGdered as hfured un
less particularly mentioned and by special agree
ment.
7th. No insurance will be made for a shorter
term than one year, nor for a longer term than fe
vea years. Persons choofirg to infm-e for seven
years (ball be allowed one year's premium Uy way
of difeount: One third of a years premium shall
be abated in like manner on an infuraace for
three years.
Bth. tLofles fyflained by fire on property insured,
shall be paid in thirty days after due prouf and li
quidation thereof, without deduction.
A defciiption of the property to be in fa rod will
be rxpeded with each application, to be made by
a mailer carpenter and signed by him, as well as
hy the owner of the building 01 applicant for in
surance, aad attefled before a Notary or principal
Magistrate, who will certify hie knowleage of the
parties and their credibility.
With refpeit to Hoiffes and other Buildings,
ill. The f«te ami politi c ; describing the
ft feet or road on or near which the building
stands ; its contigtrity to water, and other cir
cumstances relative to tbe extinguishment of fire
in cafe of accident; and particularly whether
any and what firo companies are eflablifhetl, and
engines provided,in the place or neighbour hood.
ad. The materials of which it is built, whe
ther of brick, ftose or wood, and what part of
each, as well as to the oylfide walls as in fide or
partition walls, and their refpeflive height and
thickness; the flyle of the roof and of what
materials ; how lecured by battlements or par
ty walls; what kind of accefsto the top of tbe
house and to tbe chimnies j whether any and
what elefiric rods ; the cumber and kind of
fire places ; and the kind of deposit for alhes,
3d. The dimenfmns of the building and how
divided, and the ftyie in which it is finifhed so
as te enable indifferent persons to judge in what
manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury j the age aad condition of the building,
and how occupied, whether merely as a dwel
ling house, or for any other, and for what pur
pose ; also an estimate of the value of the house
or buildwg independent of the ground.
4th. The situation with refpedt to other build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at least one hundred feet
each way : what kind of buildings are within
that diftaace, how built, of what materials, and
how occupied or improved, whether as dwel
lings for priwte families or otherwise: whe
ther any-and what trade or m«nufa<aory is car
ried on, and particularly whether there be any
extra hazardous articles used, or usually depo
sited in the house, or within the distance afore
laid, and of what kind.
Rtfpediinggoods ia Houses, Warehouses, Stc.
*• A general defcriptioa of the building in
which they arekept will beexpeited, similar in
all refpecls, as to the danger from fire, with that
required for Infuraoce on the buildings them
selves.
t. A description of the kinds and nature of
the goods, whether in calks or other packages
or opened ; and whether A played in wh<»le
pieces or in the nfual form for retailing. And
if the goods vary materially in kind, a general
eftiinate of the v»lo* cf fact kind propefed to
be injured ; but Ib the last particular minute- <
nets of defeription is not expected.
, Articles of the following kinds are deem
ed extra hazardous, though in various degrees, (
in whaf/er buildmgtHey may *>e p'a«d, v«. (
pitch,#,turpentine, rol'n. wax. t.llow. oil, .
inflammablefpirits, sulphur, hemp, flax, cotton,
dry goods of an ißflammable ktnd opened. |
Gtjfs china ware or porcelain, eipecially un
pac kedi Looking glaflee, celery ; . a6,J al.l o
ther articles more than commonly inflammable,
or it ore than commonly liable to injury by sud
den removal or by mo.flures, or particularly
obnoxious to theft on an alarm of fire.
letters poll paid, direSed to the Secretary
the Board of Diretfors, will i* duly ,»"« nd ' d I
to. An trder for lofurance accompanied by the 1
means ot paying the premium, will be .mine- ,
diatelv executed on tbe preremm paid. It
the application contain an enquiry only, it W1 "
be answered.
By order of the Board,
EBENEZER HAZARD, Sec rj.
Offict eftbe Insurance Company of Nort>- >
America ; Pbilad. Feb. 1, 1798- J
Feb. 14-
JUST RECEIVED,
and for sale, at
W. Ygwjng's Book-store,
Corner of Chcfont and Second ftrc«ts,
( PrUi 50 Cents J m
Canfes qui fe font oppofecs aux
Proeres (W commerce, entre LA FRANCE et Us
ETAT9-UNIS de L'AMERIQfJE.
Avee les Moyen6 de I'acceMrer ;
Et la comparaifon dc la Dette Nationale
de l'Angleterre . dc la France, and des
ETATS-UNIS.
Tn fix Lettres, addrefiees a Monfieurlc Ivtar
quis de la Fayitte. Tradait fur le M*
nufcrit Anglais du Coloael SWAN, ancien
Membre de la Lcgtflature dela Republique
du Maffachuflitt.
Le Commsrce efl la portion la pins importance des
(Richeffes Natioaales.
LeTridentde Neptune,eftle fceptredu Monde.
Lxmiixe.
Or causes that have been opposed to the
PROGRESS of COMMERCE between
FRANCE and the UNITF.D STATES of AMERICA.
With the means of accelerating It;
And » comparifen of the National Debts
of England, frame, and America.
In Six letters, directed to the Marquis
DE LA Fayitte.
Translated (into Freneh from the original Eng
lifh Manufcrint of Col. Swan, formerly a Mem
ber of the Lcgiflatnre of Massachusetts.
Commerce is the melt important portion of the
Wealth of Nations.
—The Trident of Neptune is the Sceptrt ot
the world. La-isaa.
AT a juncture when the question of
a Ctmmereitl Treaty weitt France may soon
become a« object of discussion, a workof this kind
becomes extremely ufefuf to those eitirens of the
United States, who may be defiroßS to enable them
selves to view this fubjeft, under its various af
peiSs; and they will have the faiisfa&ion to be
furnifhed with the necessary dat 3, to judge of the
uiefulnefsef this tranfa&iou.
This work is principally diftißguifhed by the
richneft of the observations, the pcrfpieuity of the
iftas, and the modesty of the theory which it
contains. \t Pars, ■ man of *-it observed, that
rhis work was like a rich farmer's barn, heaped up
to die very roof with ufeful produce. It is addref ■
fed to the nnfortuaate La Fat»tta, ia letters,
which fugitive fem, the author who could only
devote a few weeks to thje occupation . was
to adopt. Although eireumftancss are 111 many
refpedts different at the prrfcn: day, from what
shey were in the year 1790, when these letters
were written, yet it maybe justly said, that so ma
ny abfelute and permanent data still remain, that
the judicious reader will not appreciate the work
lesson that account ; on the contrary, as many of
the alterations, which have been made, are the re
sult of the author's remarks, it will serve to con
vince him that in all tranfadiotis, between free
nations, every thing may be expefled from the ef
forts of truth and juflice.
LETTER I.
General view of the obftaoles,'created in France,
to pi event the cxtenGon of commerce, with the
United States—Observations made in a tour, taken
for that express purpose, upon some Freneh manu-
precious fragment this). Examination
aad refutation of the prejudices existing in Fraßcc,
again It the quality of cfrtain productions of the
United States, and against the advantages of their
importation—Demonstration of the bad policy cf
laying duties on their importation, principally on
p'rovifions in gener»l, and on fait proviGons, and
nfh in pa- ticular—Confiderationt on the regulations
of the French cuiVom-heufes.
LETTER U.
Obftaclcs to the extension of trade with France,
piocec-dirig from circumstances and individuals in
the United States—Proofs that thcfc ohftades are
only temporary and will be removed (they have
been removed) by tijae and th* wifdomof govern
ment—Hiilory of the influence of the American
paper money—lmportant principles and abftraA
confiderarions on money and circulation—Causes
of the flagnation of American trade, after the
peace—Critical examination of French O oods, im
ported into America, and extraordinary conduct
of the French merchants—Effefls of good conv
merclal laws; and patriotic wifheson shisfubjeit—
Observations on money, weights and measures.
LETTER ill.
EfTayin the form of a tuilttu, to aporaife the im
poitations into the United Slates from France and tng
iatii in ted. The author examines at each article,
whether it can be better furnifbed fiom France or
England—lt is principally on this fubjeft (which
would havealtoaifheda mere thtonft) that the author
appears to evince great commercial experience. These
kinJ of taMenux, uuluckily as difficult to obtain as
they are much to be defned, are the ooly sure guides
the fiatefmen can take for th policy of treaties, de
prived of wl.ich he is continually deceiving or decei
ved. We c-innoltoo much admire the apparent ex
aftnefs of colonel Swan's calculations ; and although
the prophesies of Lord Sheffield have already been
com radiated by experience, and by feverai able pens,
yet it is curious to fee the author of ihe present work,
dispute with him the only groui.d or, which he has
not been hitherto attacked, by proving that France,
under the required condition, will be better able
than Gteat Bntasn to supply us with fcveral articles,
which the Englilb authoi al.ots exclusively and foicv.
ertothe latter; the author's patiJity efeS en (if he
has anv) does not appear to have at any 11 me created
1 partiality cf ]*dg,mt. The refuit ot this calculation
is that in i;Bg, that is to lay, at a period when arts
and manufd&.itss did to: prefect in France the vast
means and piohaU'i.y of extension wlich tbey now
po&fs. that t»en in 1789, it was prelumabie, that
France would not only have the means to supply one
half of any given qaantiiy pf,the produfiious of Franee
and 1 ng/and united, but alio to enter into competition
with Gieat Bfiiain for the remainder, in proportion
to the wildom of ber government, and the industry
of her inhabitants-
LETTER IV.
Calculation of the exportation of ihe United States,
and particular examination of their suitableness to
France; this is one reason wby, notwithflanding the
excell in woik of Mr. Tench Coxe, Mr. Swan's la.
Steau is by no means fupeifluous . tbe principle of the
advantages which weald refuit to France from the
importation of proviGcmand raw materials, is every
where applied ; Mid it upon this argument, that
the author eftabljlies h;» demands lo the French go.
vrrnment, for the limited admillion of tbe prafa*
horn ol hit country into France.
LETTER V«
Tablgu, of the debt of the United States at tbtf
time—Opinion! of the author on the fwaocet, on the
effe&of national debt, on circulation, Joe. u more
amply detailed in hit National /Arithmetic printed at
Bolton in the year 1786 ; the whole calculated to
strengthen in France, tbejiubl c and private credit
of the United Staiei—the happy condition of Ameria
ea, and the miseries anting from the public debt ia
Europe, arc contiafted in the ablest manner, and un
der the nod linking iclatisns, by very co ioui calk
cutatioos—Obfervationa on tbe wisdom and economy
which ptefide over the public exptnles in Maffachu
fetta. In thit place the pat riot iim of the awbor ap.
: pears, with all the elevation which ajuft national
pride inlpiret. The ancient gavenjnentt of Europe,
lays he, will learn from us the art of economy m
■ recompenGng the Cervices which tbe country receives.*
Amtngjl HI it wiU te fun, thai men are chojen for placet,
[ and not placet for men, This letter concludes with a
general view of the public property, depohied in the
bauds at the goveri.nie.it of tbe United States.
LETTER VI.
General examination ot the defcfis of the commer
cial policy of France with rtfpeft to the Umttd States;
many of these observations have ptodncefl the Hfcft*
for which they were intended, othets still remain,
pointing out the reforms to be made in future, at >
good chart marks the ttioals and rocks. The author
concludes his .work, by fixing his attention an hit
country, and the great men who have rerdercd it i|.
luftrtous: and we take a pleasure in quoting what he
fcyj of the present chief of our government. T«
praise a man when he etercifes a dittinguifhed eo«-
ployment, is common, and may be taken for flattery f
but whilst be is in private life, k is tbe homage of
> sincerity.
Note, page 316 of the work,
* Lcs babiians ces kiati-an's. fuivant dam lew
choix le hien poblic, & cxci cs oar un pri,.cipe de
reconnoilTasiCC, choiurent M. J jSn Adams '. Our vice*
j preGdent du nouvc u cor.eres. Ses efforts, pour pre
lerver le peuple des intrigues 'ormees par le gouv.
frucment Anglais contre la liberie, le renditent trcs
. fuipeci a ccux q'li etolcut en pouvoir Le peuple,
_ convaincu de son merite, ie choiiit pour un de tea
teprefentans dans le premier congrcs. De ce nombra
1 etoit aufli M Samuel Adams, patriote aufli int-epide,
: qu'infaiigable La revoWtuin Americaine doit bean
coup a la perleverance de fes travaux, & afestaleaa
8 Ceux que M. John Adams a
dans le traite de paix, qui a'eft fait a Pans en 1783,
oat prouve qu'il etoit miniflrc aufli habile que grand
po itique. Et dans foo ouvragc fur la defenfe de 1&
constitution Americaine, il a mnntae toutet lescan
o noiffances qui forme.«t let vrait jurifconfultet & lea
homines de loi; connoi fiances nccetlairet, pour rem
plir honorablement let fondtoat de preiadent du fetu£
• des Eiats-unia.
s At a Meeting of the President
and Managers of the and Schutlkiu.
5 Canal Compant, February 17th, 1798,
Rcfeivid, That ten dollars an each fliare of Stock
be called for ; and that the Treasurer
i- give pnbltc notice thereaf agreeable
to law.
g F-xtrafifrom tie Minvtet.
GEORGE WORRALL, Secretory.
,f AGREEABLE to a resolution of tha Prefidant
and Managers of the Dtiazomre and Sctnyliill Canal
Company, the Stockholders are hereby required to
f make a payment of ten dollars en each of their
refpe&ive (hares en or before the id of April nest,
" to WM. GOVETT, Treasurer.
February 18. lawtA
[* City Coromiffioner's Office,
~ January 1 Hit, 179 X.
FOR THE INFORMATION OF THE CITIZENS.
,e r T~ , HE following arrangement if made by the
:< JL Caid commiflianets, for cleansing the
it streets, &c.
it DiftriA No. 1. —From the north fide of Vine
P flraet, to the south fide of Mulberry street; ta
F- be uader the fuperint«nd*nce of Nicholas Hicks.
•« z From the south fide of Mulbrry street, to
'y the south fide of Ckefnut ftrreet, to be uader the
d fuperintendance ot Willnrm Moulder. ~-
3. From the feuth fide of Chefrmt street to
" the north fide of Spruce street, to be under the
fuperintendance of Joleph ClaypeuJe.
s " 4. From the north fide of Spruce street, to tha
feuth fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu
perintendance of Hugh Robertt.
t. When pnmps are cmc of order south of
High-street, please apply to Thomas Dixey at the
se corner of Sooth and Fifth-fir jets, or Godfrey Geb
fm ler, in Fourth, near Chcfnut-ftreet ; and north of
High-street, to Dixey and Dehaven, in Saffafrat
ftreet. between Sixth and Seventh-Greets
e i Nevj-Ycrk, January 14, 1798J
« PROPOSALS
u- By Arondt Van Hook,
>n Proprietor of the Reading Room ;
:c > For Publishing by Subfcriptioti,
,j r An Appeal to Impartial Posterity,
cf By Madame Roland ;
>n Wife of the Minilter of the Interior in France,
id CONDITIONS.
cs These scarce and very valuable Historical Me
moirs, (which ran through two London edi
tions in a few months,) will be cemprifed in &
r . e > vols. o"Jiave, of 4CO pages each.
in They will be printed on fine paper and a utw
re type, and delivered to Subscribers, neatly bound
vs and letteied, at 1 dollar and 50 cents per vol-
E " u me—one third of the Subiirriprion money tobe
paid on delivery of the fir ft volume—the re
mainder when the work iscompleat.
To Printers, Booksellers, and others, who
acquire Subscriptions, the usual allowance will
be made.
>v . Subscriptions are taken at the Reading-
Room, No. 149, Water street—the Printing
office, 149, Pearl-street—and at the different
Bookstores in New-York Also, by William
Young, corner if Second and Chefnut street, "Jid
the Editor of the Gazette ui tbe United States,
1° ( Philadelphia.
or Aj soon at a fufficlent number of Subfcriberi
ch are obtained, the work wiil be put to prels, and
or compleated with the utmost dispatch.
:fc Feb. »o. eodim
'« PROPOSALS,
rOR PRINTING BT SUBSCRIPTIOI\
, A NEW AND INTERESTING WORK, ENTITLED,
g h A TREATISE
n° ON THE POLICE OF LONDON,
k, Containing a detail of the variout crirrcs and mil
iat demeanors, by which public and pn-itcprcper
re > ty, are, at present, injured and endangered :
s ' e And fuggtfling remedies for their prc»«ntiofi.
BY A MAGISTRATE,
"he Acting so: - the counties ef Middlesex, Surry, Keat,
;c( j aud Elfcz ; for the city and liberty of Weftmin
on fter ; and for the liberty of the Tower of Lea
nt don.
aft CONDITIONS.
5W This work will be printed in a large 0B
' ut ao excellent Engiifh paper—lt will be delivered to
oe fubfcribcr% bcund in boards, at the moderate price
n '' of One DtUar and a talf; although the la3t London
on edition, on inferior paper and meanly bound, i«
on now fold at* wo dollart and a half. Tonen-fub
'Y fcrfber? the price will be raised.
Whatever encouragement may be pi van by fub
rs fcription, it will be committed to the t*»ls without
delay; and, barring accidents, will be roady far
t h c publication early m April.
la. £5" Sabfcriptiont wiU.be thaßkfuHy neceived at
i>, e Benjamin Bavies's's book-floie, No 68, High
ihe street, and by Hiofl of the other bookfellersia the
-ry city; by George Hill, in Baltimore; and by Sam
hat uclCampbell, and A. Diamond, in N< w-Yarl
;o- Jacuary 31. aawtA