of t\>t and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
NVMBF.X 1695.J
FOR SALE,
The Schooner
three SISTERS,
Burthen 85 torn, two years old
huilc of the bed materials, and now
r eady to receive »<="«<>• Said Te f el , m »)[ bc view *
ei at Mr. hull' l Brewer s wharf, Kenllngton.
ALSO,
Burthm 77 lent, three years
old, i> well found j may be view
ed at Meffr<. Pettel and Bayard'* wharf.
Those VefTels are well calculated for Coasters,
«id have been employed in the trade between Phi
ladelphia and New-York—They hare excellent ac
commodation for Passengers.
For terras, apply to
Gurney &*Stnith.
iebnary j6.
Nicklin & Griffith,
At their Store on Walnut Street Wharf—
HAVE FOR 3AL K ,
58 hhdi. of Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wine in pipes andhhds.
Teneriffe do. in pipc«
Old Port do. in hhds.
Imperial Tea in quarters and eighths ®f cliefU
Sail Canvass, No. r, to 8
Dimities, Ginghams, and Muflinets, in packa
ges suitable for the Weft-India market
Nails alTorted
Black quart bottles
Queens ware in hhds. and eratel
Yellow ochre dry in calks ;
And at New-York, on board the
filip Diana, from Liverpool, expe&ed round
as soon as the navigation it open,
Fine Liverpool Salt
Coala
Spinifh Brown ")
Venetian Red
ks: f
White Lead |
Red Lead J
Cnlcothar vitriol
160 bundles Sheathing paper
Seaming Twine
® IANA »
For Sale or Chatter.
ALSO, |
Brig Amaion.
N. B. The late firm of Philip Nicklin & Co.
is sow changed to
NICKLIN & GRIFFITH.
January 1. eodtf
For Savannah,
The fafl failing Ship
SWIF r PACKET,
Patrick Gribben, majlcr,
■rjWILL fail on the 10th iuft.
(ice permitting) hashandfome accommodationt
for paflengers. For freight or paflage apply to
the matter onborrd, at Eickley's wharf, above
Market-street, or
N.tsf J. Frazier,
No. 9 j, South Front-street.
February j.
For Amsterdam,
Tie Ship
FAR M E R,
John M'Collom, Matter ;
WILL fail in a few days, the
m-r££Z£2itSk££. greater part of her cargo being
ready. For freight of fifty ton 6of Coffee, or
pafiage, apply to the matter on board, at Wal
nut-flreet Wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is landing, out of the said Ship, from
Bourdeaux, and for sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter calks
Claret in cases, of a fupcrior quality
Fontiniac,
Santerne, £■ Wines in cases
Lunille, J
Prunes in boxes
Novembe 14.
For Sale or Charter,
SSI goodhope
KpyßcSjM Will carry about 1100 barrels, snd
i.rtadv totake in a rarcn- For terms
apply to
Pragers Es° Co.
No. 151, South Second-street.
Who have for sale —prime St. Croix Sugar
and Rum, Madera, Lilbon, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7. dtf
Flax Seed for sale.
App'y to
GEO. DOBSON,
No. 25, South Third-street.
January ij 5^
Boston Glass Manufa&ory.
THE citizens of the United States are hereby
informed, that the manufadure of Window
daft is naw commenced at the Glass House in
Boston.
It is needless to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of the Boft.n Glafi, at it it lo well known
throughout the United States t» be in every rcf
fcii greatly superior to any ever imported from
jturape.
It will be cut to any Cze commonly used ; and
(nay be conllantly had by applying to Cbtwlu F.
Kvfftr, at the Glass House.
Orders frtmthe diflant States to be addrcfled to
Mr. Hamuil Core, Court-ftroet, Boston.
fy Two or three |rood Glass makers ate want
ed at the above works; such as can produce re
commi ndatioas for good behavior, maybe sure of
employ, by application to Mr. George L. Limit, at
the works. Men without families w ill be pre
ferred. However unacquainted with the methad
of r. aking Crown Window Glass, they will meet
Kith the fame encouragement.
Boflon. January 16 1 2aw6w
A Nurse's place wanted.
A WOM • N just arrivrd from England, wants a
place as a N'arlcor attendant on the Tick, either on a
Gentleman or Lady.—F*r futthrr information apply
ai No. io, South Fourth fWcci, aeai M«ike ftrcet.
Feb, 6* or
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, FEBRVART ly, 1798.
JUST RECErVED,
AND FOR SALE, AT
W. Young's Book-store,
Corner of Chefnnt an ' Second streets,
(Price 50 Cents)
Causes qui fe font oppofces aux
Progres du commerce, entre LA FRANCE et les
ETATS-UMS de L'AMERIQHE.
Avee les Moyens de l'accelirer ;
Et la comparaifon dc la Dctte Nationalc
de l'Angleterre, dc la France, and des
ETATS-UNIS.
In fix-Lettres, addreffies £ Monfieurlc Mar
quis be la Fayette. Traduitfur le Ma
nufcrit Anglais du Colonel SWAN, ancien
Membre de la L£giflature de la Republique
du Mafiachuflct.
Le Commerce eft ia portion la plus importante des
(RicheiTea Nationales.
—LeTrident de Neptune, eft le sceptre du Monde.
Lemikr e.
Or causes that have been opposed to the
PROGRE6S of I OMMERCE botween
FRANCE and the UNITED STATES of AMERICA.
With the means of accelerating it;
And a comparison of the National Debts
of England, Franceand America.
In Six letters, direfted tp the Marquis
de la Fayette.
Translated (into French from the original Eng
li(h Manufcrirt of Col. Swan, formerly a Mem
ber of the Legislature of Massachusetts.
Commerce i» the mod important portion of the
Wealth of Nations.
The Trident of Neptune is the Sceptre of
the world. LEMitat.
AT a juncture when the question of j
a Commercial Treaty utiti France may soon
become an objc& of discussion, a work of this kind
becomes extremely ufefnl to thofo eitizens of the
United States, who may be defirons to enable them
selves to view this fubjedt, under its various af
pe^it; and they will have the fa£isfadion~to be
furnilhed with the necessary data, to judge of the
ufefnlnefsof this tranfallioa.
This work is principally diftinguilhed by the
rlchnefsof the obfervaMons, the pcrfpituity of the
iJcat, and the modesty of the theory which it
contains. At Pars, a man of wit observed, that
this work was like a rich farmer's barn, heaped up
to the very roof with ufeful produce. It is addref •
fed te the unfortunate La Favktte, in letters,
which fugitive form, the author who could only
devote a few weeks to this occupation, wat obliged
to adopt. Although circumftancis are ill many
refpeds different at the present day, from what
they were in the year 1790, when these letters
were written, yet it may be justly said, that so ma
ny absolute and permanent data still remain, that
the judicious reader will not appreciate\the work
left on that account; on the contrary, as many of
the alterations, which have been made, are the re
sult of the author's remarks, it will serve to con
vince him that in all tranfadions, between free
nations, every thing maybe expe&ed from the ef
forts of truth andjuftice.
LETTER I.
General view of the in France,
to- prevent the extension of commerce, with the
United States—Observations made in a tour, taken
for that express purpose, uponfome French manu
factures (a precious fragment this). Examination
and refutation of the prejudices exifUng in France,
again!! the quality of certain produdions of the
United States, and againfl the advantages of their
importation—Deniondration of the bad policy of
laying duties en their importation, principally on
proviiions in gener»l, and on fait provisions, and
iifh in pa- ticular—Confiderationsonthe regulations
of the French cufiom-houfes.
LETTER 11.
Obfladcs to the extcnlion of trade with France,
pioceeding from circumstances and individuals in
the United States—Proofs that these ohftacles are
only temporary and will be removed (they have
been removed) by time and the wisdom of govern
ment—History of the influence of tbe American
paper money—lmportant frinciples and abftrait
confutations on money and circulation—Causes
bf the flagnation of American trade, after the
peace—Critical examination of French oeds, im
ported into America, nnd extraordinary conduct
of the French merchants—Effeds of good com
mercial laws; ard patriotio wiiheson this ful)jed-r-
Observations on money, weights and mcafuret.
LETTER 111.
ElTay in the form r,f a tableau, to appraise the im
poitations into the United StatesJron France and Eng
land united. The author examines at each article,
whether it can be better (urnifhed Irom France or
England—lt is principally on this fubjed (whith
would haveaftonifhed a mere theorifl) that the author
appears to evince great commercial experience. These
kind of tableaux, uuluckily as difficult to obtain as
they arc much to be desired, are the only sure guides
the llatefman can take for th policy of treaties de
prived of which he is continually deceiving or decei
ved. We cannot too much admire the apparent ex
aduefs of colonel Swan's calculations; and although
the proplicfies of Lord Sheffield have already been
contradided by experience, and by several able pens,
yet it is curious to lee the author of the present work,
dispute with him the only ground on which he has
not been hitherto attacked, by proving jhat France,
under the tequired condition, will fcg better able
than Great Britain to supply us with several articles,
which the Englilh auihot allots exclusively and forev
er to the latter j the author's partiality tjjeft m (if he
has any) does not appear to have at any time created
a partiality »f judgment. Ihe result of this calculation
is that in 1789, that is to fay, at a period when arts
and manufadures did »ot preient in France the valt
means and probability of extension which they now
possess. that even in «789, it was prelumable, that
France would not only have the means to supply one
half of-anv given quantify of the pr<»dudions of France
and l ngUtnd united, butalfoto enter into competition
with Gieai Britain for the remainder, in proportion
to the wildom of her government, and the indullry
of her inhabitants.
LETTER IV.
Calculat ion of the exportatioos of the United States,
and particular examination of their iuiiablenelt to
France ; this is one rcaftm why, notwithftauding the
excell nt work of Mr. Tench Coxe, Mr. Swan's /«-
Ueau is by no meant fupcifluous . the principle of the
advantages which would result to France from the
importation of provihoita and raw materials, it every
where applied ; and it is upon this argument, that
the author eflablilhes his demands to the French go
vetnmenr, tor the limited ad million of the produc
tions oi his country into France.
LETIER V.
Tableau, of the debt of the United States at that
time—Opinions of the author on the finances, 011 the
et»e*l< of na lomi debt, on circulating, &c. as more i
amply detailed in his National Arithmetic printed at i
Bolton in the year 1786 ; the whole calculated to
lirengthen in France, the publ c and private credit
of the United States—the happy condition of Ameri.
ca, and the miseries anfing from the public debt in
Europe, are contiafted in he ablelt manner, and un
der the.mort IHiking tela i«nt, by very cu'ious cal
culation-—Oblervanens on the wisdom and economy
which preside over the public expenfea in Maflaohu
letts. In this place the pa'.riotifin of »he author ap-•
paars, with all the elevation which a just national 1
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Cbefnut Street.
prtde inlpires. The ancient governments of Europe,
lay* he, will learn from us the art of economy in
recompensing the services the country receives,*
Among ft us it wit! be fieri, that men are chojen for plates,
and not p'aces for men. This letter concludes with a
general view of the publie property, depolite# M the
hand* ef the government of the United State#.
LETTER VI
Gensral examination of the defeft* of ihe commer
cial policy of France with refpeft to the United States;
many o£ these observations have produced the efFe&s
for which they «were intended, others (till remain,
pointing out the reforms to be made in future, as a
good chart marks the fhoats and rocks. The author
concludes his work, by fixing his attention on his
country, and the great men who have rerdered it il
lustrious; and we take a pleafurc in quoting what he
fays of the present chief of our government. To
praise a man when he exercises a diltinguilhed em
ployment, is common, and may be taken'for flattery j
but whilst he is* in private life, it is the homage of
sincerity.
Note, page 316 of the work,
* Les Haitians des Ltatjrunis, fuivent dam leur
ehoix le Kien public, Sc excites par un principe de
recon no i fiance, choifirent M. John Adams pour vice
prefident du congres. Ses efforts, pour pre
server le peuple des intrigues formees par le gouv
fmemept Anglais contre fa liberie, le rendirent tres
fufpe£l a ceux qui etoient en pouvoir. Le peuple,
convaincu de son merite, le choifit pour un de fes
reprefentaris dans le premier congres. De ce nombrt
etoitauiTi M Samuel Adams, patriote auffi intrepide,
qu'infatigable La revolution Americaine doit b®au
coup a la de fes travaux, &<•« fes talens
diftinges. Ccmx que M. J*hn Adams a developpes
dans le traite de paix, qui s'ellfait a Paris en 1783,
am prouve qu'il etoit miniftre aufli habile que grand j
po itique. ht dans son ouvrage fur la defenfe de la
conflitution Americaine, il a montae toutes les can
noillantes qui ferment les vrais jurifconluhes & les
hommesde loi; connoiffances necedaires, pour rem
plir honorablement le* fondiions de president du fenat
des Ciats-unis. ~
NOTICE
IS hereby giver, that the Subscriber, an insol
vent debtor, confined in the common goal of
the County of Cape May in the state of New-
Jersey, hath presented his petition to the Judges
of the Inferior Court of Common Pleas, in and
for the said county, prajing that they would
attend to hear what can be alledged for or a
gainfl his liberation, pursuant to an aft of the
Legillature of this State, entitled "an aSt for
the relief of insolvent debtors," pafled the s6th
day of January 1798 —And the the said court
did appoint Monday the 26th day of March
next for the purpose aforefaid ; to meet at the
Court House in the Middle Precintft, at eleven
o'clock, in the forenoon of the said day, of which
bia creditors are requefttd to take notice.
CHARLES ALLEN.
Cape May, Feb. 8, 1798.
Feb. 14—iawj w
OVAL BOTTLES.
Quart and half gallon in crates —and a quanti
ty of Claret Bottles of a right fize —For sale at
No. 13, Church Alley. JOHN DORSEY.
January n 3taw6w.
A House in Burlington for Sale.
THE fubferiber ■has a large, convenient, two
ftory brick House, with Stables, Carriage
houfe, and a well improved Garden, in the City
of Burlington, New-Jersey , which he wishes to
sell. For termsapply at No. 5, South Fourth
ftrcet, to GEORGE WALKER,
Who has alfofor Sale, .
Lots in Washington City,
Contiguous to the Capitol and to the principal
harbour.
December 29. 7ot
Princeton—New-Jerjey.
To be Sold,
THAT neat and convenient House ill wliirh
the late Mrs Ann Witherfpoon, now Mr».
Ann Walker Jived ; together with all the ap
purtenances. The house is two (lories high,
of frame work and painted. There are lour
rooms and an entry on the lower floor, and five
rooms on the second floor. The cellars are
dry, and the garret specious—The back yard
is pawed with ftoncs. In it are a well of excel
lent water, an oven, a fmokejioufe, and house
for ashes—and behind it a carriage house, hay
loft, graaery. and convenient stables, with four
flails for horses, and four for nea cattle. The
lot is 60 feet wide upon the llreet, and 254 feet
deep, somewhat "more than half of which is
made into a kitchen garden of an excellent foil.
For terms, which will be made very reafon
ablt, apply to the reverend
Samuel S. Smith.
January 19. iaw4w
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
A veluable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-eafl corner of Wal
nut and Fifth ftrcet:, fronting the State-
Hcufe square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut ftrcet, anil one huudred and thirteen
feet and an halfon Fifth flre«t ; there ire at
present two small two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Alfa, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient (tores, wharf, &c. firuate on
Water street, between Mulberry an J SalTafras
Streets, containing in front «n Water street fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
have the cenrenience of a pubi c alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and area very defirablefit
uatiou for a a merchant, flour factor, or others
who may have occasion for florage of goods. (
This property will be fold on very reasonable ,
terms for cash. For further infomition apply ,
to the printer.
_ Juiy 31. m&wtf
~IN THE PRESS, ~ J
Andfpeed'ily will le Publi/heti,
For the benefit of the
MARINE SOCIETY of the UNITED STATES,
A general plan and system of Regulations therein : 7
IVritleti at Ses, in the year 1794 '
And now printed
»r THE AOTHOk.
* A natv wicfd be maintained hut to an aimed 1
nfelefs purpefe which taking the feanun kept the
merchantmen idle iu port, and trading vcflcls
would be at unprofitable employed, it they took
allthofefeamcn whofefkillandcourageonb'
of war, would £»v# them pr tedlion and secure
their fafety. We hawienoogh for both purposes,
and the cultivating hind attention alone is want
ing to multiply their number. " Money may buy '
" all nival (lores, except mariners; but, uulefs a '
M supply of th«rri i? preserved, no wealth will be a
" abie to procure th»m." t
February 7. $
• Bank of Pennsylvania.
AT a meeting of the Stockholders, held at the
i Rank on Friday, the 2d February, 1798, purfu
: ant to public notice—
On ration, Rcfoived, That, this. macting be
ing imprefied with a due sense of the extraordina
• ry services and attention of Samuel M*-Fox, Esq.
; Prefidentof this Bank, in the e/ecution of the du
t ties of hjs office ; which have beep much increaf
» ed by the peculiar fituatlon of the institution, at
• the period of his appointment; and ly the diffi
culties occaSoned in consequence of the recent ca
i lamity in this city ; a committee of three geatle
| men be appointed to prepare a piece of Plate, of a
t value not exceeding five hundred dollars, with suit
able emblems and devices, to be pref.nted to Mr.
j Pox, in the name of the Stockholders, as an evi
c dence of the high sense they entertain of his late
official services.
William T. Smith, Peter Wikoff, and Charles
Biddlc, Efqrs. were appointed a committee for the
above purpose.
Ordered, that the preceding reiolution be pub
lished. 5
E*tra»sl from the minutes.
WILLIAM T. SMITH,
Chairman.
Athft —Joh v Sjtgkeaves, Suretary.
Frejh Fruit.
To-morrow morning will be landed, at
Morris's Wharf, just above the Draw
bridge, the cargo of the schooner Frede
rickfburg Packet, Captain Ptarce from
Malaga, viz.
Bloom.Raisins in kegs
Do. Do. in boxes
Muscatel do. in do.
Figs in kegs
Almond kernels in casks and boxes
Soft (hell'd almonds In sacks
Prunes in boxes
Grapes in jars
Anchovies in kegs, Bc.c.
The whole of the articles (hipped as of the firft
qualities.
For Sale by
Peter Kuhn.
February 5 djt
Bafkenridge—i'or sale
IT confids of 910 acres, jlmoft all of which is
a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the late
Eurl of Strrling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which are bounded on the
East by the river Pafaiek.
l'h-rr are on it a number of buildings, forming
afquare of nearly three acres—The dwelling house
is a very convenient one and,a fmallexpehce would
put it in complete repair.
The orehard coniifls of 1500 fin«bearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other pirts ot said
trail near 300 other Apple Trees—as a!fo a great
varie*y of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
bed and inoft delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
Forest Treos, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its situation is abeut 18 miles
from, the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and 13 from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
I o favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in cash, on delivery of the deed,. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chcfnut treet.
February 1. eodtf
Prison iVI anufa&ory.
FOR SJIE,
At the Prifoa of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of all sizes, from jdy to 2ody
Flooring Brads. Spriggs, saddle and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwrod
Shoemakers and Sadl rs Thread
A Ho—Sawed Marble, suitable for currier*s tables,
tomb and hea Hones, hearths, chimney pieces,
platforms, slabs, facia, window hea is JMU. c .
All which may he had on rcafonabie trrms,
Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders from a distance, direded to Daniel Tho- '
mas, agent for the puifon, will be attended to.
December 26- mth6ni
Just Published,
And to be had at the Book-ilores of Meflrs. Dob
son, Campbell, Young and Okmrod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caulcs and Cure of Remitting or Bilious
Fevers.
To which it annexed\
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and prailice of
different authors : and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting interesting fa&s and reflections relative to <
the Synochus Ifteroida, or Yellow Fever, which
has occasioned so much diftref* and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the fcaport
towns of the United States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE, J
Felow of the Philadelphia College of Physicians,
and Member of the .American Philofophicil So
c"-f 7- Feb. I—»*3ihs
Canal Lottery—No. 11. J
WILL commence drawing Monday, the a»th c
infl- Tick*ts for Sale in this Lottery, at 1
Srjen Dalian, at W*. BLACKBURN's Lottery *
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-street J
1 ickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten t
Dalian, where check books we kept lor regiffrr- c
ing and examining in these, the City of Walhing- 1
ton, No. ll.anH Patt«rfon Lotteries, and informa- '
tio» where tickets maybe bad in most of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the 1
Union. I I
N. B. The business of a Brokfr, inbuyingand
felling all kinds of PHblic Stock aod Securities,
difco.nting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, House?, &e. &c. will be duly attended to,
I>> Wh. BLACKBURN.
November ij. §
IN THE PRESS,
AND SPEEDLLY WILt BE PUBLISHED,
(Price 25 Cents) I
Refledlions on Monroe's Visw
OF TMK CONDUCT OT THR EXECVTIKZ,
As published in the 7
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
Under the fignatur* of
scipio, y
hawhichthecommerci.il warfare of France is
traced to the French fa<slion in this country '
as its lonrce, anil the motives of the opposition
to the meafurcs of the United States arc exposed.
Feb. 8. ' .c
FOR SALE,
by the subscribes, No. ii, Penn-flrcet,
e The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander, from Bengal,
Conjrjlifig of
Baft as, of various qualities and prices,
[. Cftfaes Ptinjum Cloths
• Sanahr Guzzeydo.
- Ilumhums Charconni Dorea
t Blue CU.th Tanjibs
* Chintz and Calicoes Mulinuls
■ Matnoodys Checks
" Maharagonget ' Patna Hkfs.
a Ginghims Mulmul do.
Guzzenas Bandannoes
Gurrahs Siflerl'oy
I Piniafcees Cboppk Romali
Sooty do.
t Gillie RomsU PeiTians of various cel.
, Mock Pulicats
toe tons SUGAR
9«,00e lb. PEP FEU.
Wtilings & Francis.
The Pitc( Goods
Of the Ganges ar» now open to sale. at that
tomruodiou# flore the north weft corner of
. Market ami FourtVflreets.
Alfd—A few Bales of Madrafs Hkfs. of ele
gant patten s and belt colours.
February 8. dtf
FOR SALE, ~
By WHARTON fcf LEWIS,
No 1 15 South Front Street.
A quantity of Taring's Oil,
4th proof Jamaica Rum, "> entitled to
ill and ad proof JBrandy, J drawback.
Madeiia Wine,
Juniper Berries, &e. &c-
Fc y eodtf
St. Croix Sugars.
lb hogsheads belt ST. CKuiX SUGAR,
For sale by
JOHN NIXON & Co.
Feb. 9. fm&wtf
Wanted,
An a&ive, cleanly, industrious woman to cook
aid do the business v[ the kitchen. Such a one
will he allowed good traces, and no other needap.
ply.—Enquire of the Printer.
February 7 _ §
WANTED
A young Gentleman to go
Doftor of a Ship to the Eaft-lndics.
Enquire at No. 25 Do k Street.
Fcb - 6 - diw
Ran away Jrom the Subscriber,
On the 24th January last,
A Black Woman, named Zelimt.
SHE is ol a middling sued flaturc; thick lips,
marked with the small pox in the face—She
carried off a t undle of lit,en with her. Whoever
takes her up f.nd brirgs her to the fubferiber, at
No 181, Arch-lireet, corner of Fourth-flrect,
ihall receive two Dollars reward
J. I.AZELLES.
N. B. Whoever harbor i .id Girl alter this no.
ticc, (hall te prosecuted to the fev.rlty of the law.
Februaty io.
NO TICK
ALL persons who have any deminds ngainft
the etlate of IVILLIAM COMPTON iat
of the city of Fhilade phia, decrafed, are requi
ted to furnilh their accousts, duly attelled. And
those who are indebted to fijij .-flat.-, areearnsftly
solicited to make immediate payment, to cither of
the fubferibers.
Isaac Cathrally 1
Jokn Haworth, I Administrators.
Samuel lYilcox. J
. J anuar y ws 4 w
NO T I C E.
ALT. persons indebted to the eDate «f Peter Gill
late of the Ditlri.fi ol Soathwark, deceased
are requdted ti make immediate paymentto ei'her
ft! the Subscriber, ; and those who have any d(
mands agair.ft said citate, are requested to brine in
rheirjac.ouiitsdnly attested, to
'John Murphy,
'Peter Scravendykt, L Execu *
Thomas Farrtll, J tors >
l6 l >awaw 4 w
Lately Publiflied,
And to befoli by WII.LIA'M YOUNG, carnejof
Second and Chefnut fl rests,
( Price 38 lit of a dollar J '
Obfer vat ions on certain Dccuments
Contained in No. V and VI of
The Hiltory of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the Charge oi sffculation ap-ainffc
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Sicretaky of the J'reasur y. is FUIIV
REFUTED.
WRITTEN Br lIIMSELP.
lliis publication prefems a concise ftatemtnt of
the base meacs pradifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to afpsrfa the charaSers cf t'-of«
persons who arc conDdered as hoflile their difor
gamzißg fchcmes. It also contains the correfoon.
dence between Mr. Hamilton am! Messrs. Monroe,
Muhlenburg and tenable, on the fubj.a of tU
documents aforefaid, and a series of letter, fr J!
James Reynolds arid his wife to Mr. Hamilton
proving beyond the poflibility of adoubt, that the
eor.ne&ion between him and Reynolds was the re
sult of a dating conspiracy on the part of the lat
ter and his aliociates ro extort money.
.^ T d 'f- on 'it of one third from the reta*
price will be made in favor of wholelale purcha.
You no" CASU ' ° ,0 be to Mr.
l'"cl)ruary f.
SALES BY auction.
Stated Sales
For D R r GOODS,
f Forenoon—Fdward Fox. No ,e.
Forenoon—John Connelly, Old f\'t»
Tue/Jay) J"*""' Wh fl^'
( Afternoon—- VI ilhanj Sht '
C. t8 ; ? ftre-et.
Hl-dvifdav $ Afternc«y,_.Pc tfr No. 74
- ( south Third-ftrcct 74
Tburfdoy \ F'«nt>on_£ Qwa rd Fox.
t Afternoon—John Connelly.
Friday f ® rcn ° f n V\ ill.am ShanQQa.
V j > Afternooii John Connelly.
\i>atttrdaj Afternoon—P,ter Ben for.
[Volume XI!1.Sele£t I"alls. |
MK A CIS, at the particularrequeft of 1
the iiiWcrihe s, iutfnds to have tour more j
fubfcriptioit Balls.
TERMS.
Eurh Subscriber ttTpay Five Dollars, which i
entitles him toagentleman's cards of '
admifßon for two ladies at each ball.
The firft ball to be on Tuesday, the 10th oT
Febrniry, *r.d to be continued every Tuesday
till the end of the fublcription, at the end of
which Mr. Francis propolis giving an extra ball
to the fubferibers.
Mr. Francis refpeclfully informs those gen
tlemen who have not already fubferibed, that
the plan of the fubferiptinn is to be seen at Mr. ;
F.'s house, No. 7a North Kighth ftrect.
Mr. F. likewise informs his Scholars, and the .
puh)ic in general, that his filth pra£tifnig Ball,
will be on Thursday the axd inft. .
Feb. 16.
TO THE PUBLIC.
THF. Editors of the Northern Liurrtt
Star, and Daily Advertiser, refpc&iully in
form f« cir pj'rom and the public, that the publica
linn which was promiftd this day, is unavoidably
poftpon« A until Mwdav next.
BKRN RI) SCHEFFLER and Co^
PROPOSALS
Tor v blifliiog « P aily w f pap, rin ihe Northern
L>bcrtie*ot Phila-- elphia, to b- entitled, the
MR THER X LIBER TY SIAR,
AND DAILY ADVERTISER.
CONDI TfOKf*
ill* The Northern Liberty Stir, and Daily Adverti- 1
fer, (hall he printed on a g >od p-per of a demy j
file, wi'h a hand{o*nr type, ev-rv and !
delivered »o fttbfi»ibrrß in the N »rthem Liberties,
City, >nd between the hours of four
and fix
td. The price to tnbferiSera, will be six dollars
per annun- one d lai half to be paid at
• the time of fubfcribii>g or at the end of every three
mrvths.
jd. Tne S'ar (hall contain the si rrival*. Clearances
Ptices Currer-t. .Storks and allothe' Public ft fi
nefs, which may render it u'efal to'he übfciibers.
4th. Advertiiemerit* will be »eceived every day until
two o'clock, and infer?ijd «4-c fame evening, in a
Deat and cortfpicoous manner, on the mod modei
ate tt-rnis
Subfcripii o, s » aitieics tf intelligence, advertise.
went-, See will be thankfully received until Monday
next,~atibt PriMing-Offi<e, comer of St. John and
St. Tama.iV-ftreets, between Second and Third
ft.ect, for th 1 * day's publicati m.
• # * The Printer* of tho United Sta es, who may
wifli to exchange papers, are refpeftfully rcquefted to
Tend on their papers as lo«n as pcfliblc.
d4t
Public Sale of Real Ellates.
On THURSDAY Evening, the 15th of
Febru ry next, will he'expofed to Public Sale,
at the Merchants' Coffec-hotifc in Seeond-Areet,
at 6 o'clock in the evening, the following-
ESTATES.
I. A two ft cry brick House, with t tw«
ft-?ry frajne !?u'Hinge, on 3 lot to feet front and
JvC feet deep ; also, a vacant I.Ot of 40 feet square,
•with the privilege ci" ar* alley to go thereto. This
inteteli has lately been let for 100 dollars per an
num, and is fifuated in Chriftian-ftrect, between
Front and Second- flrcets, the fccoiul house from
Mr Caleb Ash's.
No 2. * three story hrick House, ,situate at
the worth taft corner of Chefnut ftrect'®, being 14
feet on Second-flreet, and ao ftet on Chcfnirt
ftre«t, now in the tenure of V?r. Morange, at the
yearly rent of 400 dollars, and h detmed of
the best stands for the sale of dry goods in this city.
No. 3. A handfomC well fir.iftcd three story
brick House, lofect front and 100 feet deep, Ctu-_
ate in Fifthrfireot, between Market and Arch
streets, No- 40- Thisi oufe inbuilt and fimflicd
In the modern style, is in complete repair, with
douole cellart under the *-hnle Thei eis a ciflern
of rain water in the yard ; and the house is at pri
fcrt let for 600 dollar* per annum with the taxes.
No. 4. A three story brick Houfr, situate in
Pbirab-ftrctt, between Second and Third ftrect,
tooing 10 feet front and 130 feet deep, at present
occupied by Robert Kenny.
Vn. 5, A three ftery brick House, on the bank
fide of Front-street, No. 17T North, going thro*
to Water-ftrect. where it is five story. It is if)
feet front
and is rental for 60c dollars p-rr annum.
The conditions of Sale are, one quarter cash,
one quarter in 6 month-, oce quarter in 9 months,
«&d rue quarter in la months.
PI iUdelfhia, lan 2, I7uS. jaw ' fc
On account nf the present had weather, the
abeVe falei* pollponed until Thur(day crcriHg, the
firft day ©f March, at 6 o.clock. Feb. 16.
JUST AR RIVED', '
In the Ship )>rur, Jcfrpß Woodman, mister, from
London,
50 crates Queens' Ware, assort
ed to fur Weft India market
40 h Whi>ing
7joo bu(htl«g od House Coals
ALSO- Jl/.sT L\NOtB,
4*o barrels piiine Bref
50 barrels Pork
750 hhds. Hava .na MolafTei
Woolen Cloths^)
Blankets }■ aflorted in packages
Hard Ware }
Du«k
Window Glaf* in hoxc?, Bri. i r, of various fia«-»
Black quart in hampersof 4 groce each
A general effortrweHt of Queens' Ware, is crates
Fowling Pieces ard Pistols, in cases
Baflu.t fine Salt, in hogsheads
for sal 1 by
Tbos. & John Ketland.
febmsry Ij {tin
For Bremen,
The Dani/b Brigantine
JOHANNA,
Ml!!' ]oi ,n Andrew Thieffm, Majltr.
EXPECTED to fail on the 18th ii.ftant. Forv
1 only, apply io the captain onboard,
it Hamilton's wharf, < r to
EDWARD DUNANT,
No. 149, Sfcu'h Front-street,
Who request* all those having accounts against
said vrlTel, to exhibit, the f*me for payment, pre
vious to the 18th tuft, as no demands will he piid
after departure from hence.
Hf bat JtiU cm tarj, if the Cargo •] said vessel, ft in
Malaga,
80 kegs frefh Raisins
116 jars T bloom ditto
lot DOXCI )
90 hoi'* Mufcaß. ditto
10 krp Figl
tl h'h " } superior Catalonia Wln«
Malaga and Mountain Wine in hhdt.qr. ctOf*
And a few qr. caiks fine old Colemcnar Wifie.
February ij.
FOR SALE,
A quantity of CAt.F SKINS, in the rough,
and so me horse leather. Apply to
ROBERT SMITH # Co.
No. jB, South Front ftrect.
Feb. IS'
i Xije dsa3Ctte.
PHILADELPHIA,
1 SATURDAY EVENING, E EB&L/ARY 17.
I ——
j For the Gazelle of the United States.
T/TJ DIGNITY OF GOVERNMENT— No. 11.
Is it not oniverfally acknowledged, that ihe a-
I bufe of public characters has tarnilhcd the A
meriean name, and that all parties regiet tnis
abuse when it lights on their own favorite. Why
1 then do not all unite in coiredting an error
! which all at fame timne difipprove There nev
-1 er can cxiftany circuinftances that may jollify
j abuse. Truth, and candour, are the bcftfliitrjii
of defense in a good cause, and the bell weapons
to beat down error and falfehood. These sn
liven and captivate the human mind ; and the
pervei fe spirits which are not influenced bv them
are loft forever. Who that knows the illuftri
oua men who were the great instruments in the
hand of Providence to accomplilh the revolution,
but hasfelt an indefcrihabre twinge of heart ard
repulfiv; indignatiap at feeing abuse flaw from
the tongues and peV.s of falfeho.id ajjaii ft the
fathers ut our country ? It has been the f tc of
all countries to produce fueh demons of iliford,
and they are the ready instruments of tyranny
1 as ready to flatter bad men, at 10 abuse good
) men ; having no moral principle to regulate
1 aflions they go to all extremes and are bought
ar.d fold with money or frniles or love or hatred,
by aiiy paflion or any interest. Happy would
it be for merica if its air would no: nourift}
. such Beings ; but our newspapers too often prove
1 their cxiUence here.
Liberty has mure to fear frotji the poison of
1 these pretended friends, and the diffufion of their
r vices, than from all the weapons European def
potj car. form /gainll her. "Honour thyfclf,"
1 i. an ancieat maxim, and Americans (hould
write it upon their hearts ; we ought to feel an
hoi'.eft pride in our name, an t glory in our
country. The merits of a Washington, and a
long lift of othti retired patriots, with the il
lultriousnam's now in the firft feats in govern
-1 ment, feed the the just ardour for our conntry's
1 farrt in ev.ry bosom. The moment men ceale
" to love their country'i friends, their patriotism
expires. Nor ought our criticism ever to befo
* fevereasto lose fight of prevailing virtues, if
j some errors sere unhappily mingled. Shall
the inadvertencies of a day or an hour becloud
the Ready fun and general tefior of life. But a
y diflin&ion as wide as heaven and earth, (hou.d
3 forever be pr-itrved between good and bad
men, that virtue and her friends may receive
their reward, and the world be accelerated in
its progress to brighter eras. A god man is a
blefting in every circle, in government he is in
eflimable j and every heart ought to be a barrier
f to his. In proportion to the di/lintlions of mo
ral charaßers, in the gdneral eflimatioo, will
every community rife or fink. Thi<, revelation
afitires us, and reason confirms it j it is .a law
in the intelligent univ»rfe, wh ch no beings can
, invert; and by the observance of it individuals
] and nations afcrnd the fca'e of dignity ai d hap
piness. Should not therefore this principle pe
netiate the bolom and be planted deep in the
. heart of rulers—and the people' inspire it as the
1 vital spring of free exiflence, and fix the idea
,1 in the budding mind of their infant offspring ?
A purr chaiactu in government, is
t durable cement of the facial union ; it isanin
-4 exhaustible source ; It commands all the wealth
- and ftretigth of the whole nation to guard its
e rights, and to accelerate every measure for pub
' lir happiness ; it is the animating foul of a na
tion. The ancier.t republics pcrilhed for want
1 of it. It now rd.iains to be ascertained by
experience, whether our republic u ill occupy the
j yet vacant feat in tjiis m oil sublime temple of
fame. Heisunwerthy to rule the free, who
1 does aim at it—and he is a blot to creation
who gives a vote for a man whose foul is not
elevated towards it.
n Let not rulers or people be lulled in their
Humbert to profound sleep, by the common
t place talk " that it is in vain to expedl that our
people and government (ho Id be more wife or
k virruous than those of ether countries." Such
remarks are often repeated \vith an air of grave
® sagacity ; but they tend to extinguish that hope
:, j which i> the spring of a<flion, and to futfl the
prophecy, therefore they (h«u!d be repelled.—
1, he contemplation of great and good objedU,
| fays a sublime writer, " ajjimulates the mind
and mallei it grest."
ThiHis the nature of man ; the-individual,
e or the nat on, that would ascend to glory, mult
e have elevated views above the walk of common
minds; and unbounded by what others have at
chievtd.
ii If Americans wish to be the great, the just,
the glorious nation which theii*extenfive regions
„ and the bounties of nature stem to hztfe design
ed, and the dispensations of Providence point to,
they ought to fear more than d«th the least de
parture from the strait line of honour—An in
advertent flep in government mult never be de
fended, but instantly reformed —The only en
qun"y be, "for the path of •wisdom"; and put
from us precedents that will not accord with its
diflates. 80 may lue attain the summit of hu
man wilhes, and reach the glowing point wlure
good men bound their terrellrial views.
* MR. FENNO,
I hare read the ftatcments in the papers
printed last evening and this morning of the
discipline administered by Mr. Grifwold to
the Knight of the IVooden Sword, that infamous
fpitler Lyon ; and I have Seen mortified to
perceive, from the general representation,
nothing which truly exhibits the faft—The
truth is, Mr. Grifwold advanced towards
Lyon with the calm and unruffled dignity,
for which he is as mnch diftinguilhed as any
man in America. He was seen by Lyon,
r , whom he addrefTed before the firft blow,
, which was aimed-at and received by his
shoulders—blows were repeated—no refif-.
tance made, but inllead of it, the wretch
( fled until he seized a pair of tonga- thus
armed he turned on Mr. Grifwold and it bc
-1 came aeceflary to throw him on the fluor.
About this time the house was called'to or
' der, and Mr. Grifwold with a noble felf
command left bis prey and as unruffled as u
sual took his feat. What happened with
out the bar, was a blow given by LyCm to
Mr. Grifwold ; which though aimed from
behind and undefended, was too feeble to do
■n injury.
4 A few words, Mr. Printer, explanatory
of the conduit of Mr. Grifwold—Lyon
was the firft aggrefTor, none of hia party
have had the audacity to deny it. The na
ture of thisjaggreflian—if was introduced
* relative to a fubjtft before the house. TJjc
intention, t«> influence the votes of the mem
bers of Connecticut. The meads employed,
intimidation, accompanied witbdireA cbsrg-
«• jjf corruption, servility, and falfcliood.
Outrageous and gross as wat this conduft,
it would better have become the dignity of
Mr. Grifwold's charaftcr,feeling as he mull,
for the authdr, ineffable fcoin, to have treat
ed him with lilent negleft. But in allulion
to his threat of controuling the public opin
ion of the enlightened State of Connefti
cut by his own personal charafter and influ
ence, it surely was not unnatural to hint,
at that part of hishiflory, which would ren
der him as contemptible in Connefticut as
he ought to be in Vermont. The abomi
nable aft which followed, which is without
example, and the turpitude of which no
words can describe, Mr. Grifwold, from
refpeft to the house, did not instantly re
venge, This amiable command of temper,
I this refpet\fnl attention 10 the tine, and fleet
which should have secured a just punishment
to the nujly beajl, was, in Whispers, repre
sented as ati evidence of cowardice. Tho'
I Lyon flood before the house convifted of
crimss which would hay*. expelhd from the
society of any Other aflociation in the Unit
ed States, whether legal, convivial or even
jpctlinic, yet a faftiou retained him there be
eaiife, forfooth, the house was not in order,
and because the rights of the people of Ver
mont might be injured by depriving them of
their representative—yes, Lyon, the pure
Mr. Lyon, is retained in his feat for the
honcr and interest of hi. cooftituents. Thus
circumstanced what CAuld Mr. Grifwold do
but what he has done, revenge the injury in
the place where it was inflifted, and before
thole who were witnesses of it ? And (hew
to those who have the lesson yet to learn,
that to prevent private revenge, gross injuries
mufl he redrejfed by authority. Painful a#
must have been the necessity which imposed
this duty, it has been nobly performed.
February Ij. A. Z.
From the (N. r.J DIARY.
THE WOODEN SWORD.
This harmless weapon has cost the United
States many thousand dollars, and may poflibly
coll many more before the question is fettled.
Qiiere —Would hot the public fund* be asjndi
cioufly appropriated if applied towards the e
qnipment of our nu al force ? Is not refpeita
b|li y wmted in more places than one ? The
man and his wooden sword are too contemptible
to occupy the public attention one hour, mscfi
lef» the public fundi. n
From the Massachusetts Mercury.
T.HI ECONOMIST.
In Europe, where bankrupt laws are com
monly provided, all but the merchants are
excluded from the benefit of them. This is
done on an idea that no one, excepting those
who are engaged in commerce, ought to be
under circumstances to need such a remedy.
Every one whose expectations are not con
nefted with the hazard incidental to com
mence, ought to order his affairs in such a
maimer, as that he can fee his creditors with
confidence, andjuftice. We have more in
ftancesperhaps, in New-England, ofthe infol
veney of Farmers and Tradesmen, than there
are in any of the European countries. The
reason is, that too many of the people of
these clafFes engage themselves in concerns
to which their abilities are incompetent, and
calculate upon profpefts which have no so
lid foundation. Their expences exceed their
income before they are aware of it, and hav
ing once found themfelvetin arrear,they be
come discouraged, and although they then
reason accurately enough to fee their error
when it is too late, yet they find no means
of relief. There are instances, where trades
men and farmers enter upon commerce, and
make distinguished and reputable figures in
the buCnefs ; but if is always seen, that they
introduce themselves by cautious lteps, ex
amine well every inch of their progress, and
never risk any thing, until they have acqui
red a capital, or obtained to a filiation,
which is commonly called before-handed; and
then, never adventure more, than they can
l>ear the loss of. These men have nothing
to do with haiard, and are habitually Eco
nomics.
The Farmer, who attends to that kind of
business, as the only hope for th-e advance
ment of hi* interest, and the fuppoitofhis
family, is an habitual economist. He caK
culates annually, how many bnfhels of corn,
and how many tons of hay a certain num
ber of acres will produce. He measures
the needed quantity, by the known expen
ditures of his family, and extends his plan
of agriculture to the payment of taxes; the
expences of cloathing, and of foreign lux
uries. A small sum of money loaned on in
terest, raises a shelter against an accidental
storm, and affords courage to meet the de*
clinc of life, and the infirmities of advanced
age.
The Tradesmen who depends altogether
upon his vocation, are at all times determi
ned with a great degree of certainty, what
the expences of the ensuing year will be ;
and on an ealy calculation of his expefted
earnings, can keep his expenditures within
the ensuing year will be ; andon an easy cal
culation of his expefted earnings, can keep
his expenditures within the limits of them.
So the Clergymen, and others, who depend
upon fixed salaries, do very well with a small
income. This is, because their situation
make them habitual economists, and they
are ready habitually, when they fee an ar
ticle they wish for, to compare the price of
it with their ability to pnrchafe it. This
they do with a mechanical readiness, as o
thers play on or count in numbers.
But whenever people determine to possess
what they fee, because it would be conve
nient to have it, or because ojhers have the
fame, or because they would proudly lead
in the fafhion, then there is an end of all
economy.
FOR SALE,
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Including Loitjj Printer, a out 400 weight, in
Rood condition, and would a fwer the purpose of
a country Pr incur as well at nevv.
fceqiure wf the PrJiter, *
CONGRESS.
' m\
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
FRIDAY —FEBRUARY 16.
Immediately .upon the Journal's having
been read,
Mr. Davis (Kent.) rose and proposed
the following refolut ion for the adoption of
tlie houfej
" Refolve«ithat Roger Grifwold and Mat
thew Lyoo, members of this house, for
violent and disorderly behaviour committed
in the house, be expelled therefrom."
Mr. Nichelashoped the resolution would
be permitted to lie on the table.
Mr. Davis saw 110 reason for delaying a
decifioji upon this refolutiou, He thought
the conduit of these gentlemen had been so
grofslv violent, and so notorious to most-os
the members of the house, that there need
|be no hesitation in deciding upon it. If
! gentlemen wiflied, however to take the fame
; course which had been adopted on a former
occasion, he should not objeft 'to it, though
he thought it unneceffaiy. It was needless,
now to fay any thing as to the necessity of
preserving the dignity and honour of that
i house; enough had already been said, and
he thought pertinently said, </> a former
occalion on this fubjeft. And as he believ
ed neither the dignity, the honour, or peace
of that house could be preserved whilst these
members remained in it, he hoped the house
would be unanimous in voting their cxpul
fion.
Mr. Thatcher did not fee why the inno
cent should be puniftied with the guilty.
The gentleman who brought forward this
proposition, he supposed, did not wish this.
From what he saw of this affray, he did
not think Mr. Lyon deserved to be punished
for the part he afted. He certainly receiv
ed a severe beating, but he appeared to be
passive from thebeginningto thf end; and he
did not think Mr. Lyon ought to be expell
ed because he was beaten. As to any investi
gation of what happened yesterday, he did
not think it needffary as mod of the members
ps that house were eye witnesses to the faft.
But the gentleman said there would be no
peace until these members were expelled.
He did- not know from what he drew his
conclulions. What wa» done yesterday,
was done before the house was in session;
and it had been already determined that afts
of violence committed without the bar, du
ring a ftffion ofthe house, are not causes of
expulsion. He did not know, therefore,
how gentlemen would support the doftrine
that a member ought to be expelled for an
aft of violence done before the house wa* in
feifion. It might be necessary, however to
investigate Pther fafts conncfted with these.
Mr. J. Parker seconded the motion for
the expulfmn of these members, because he
believed there would be no peace in the
house until they were expelled. He was
sorry the gentleman'from Massachusetts
should have said he saw nothing but what
was passive on the part of Mr. Lyon. He
himfelf saw more, and that the gentleman
must have seen ft, if he had his eyes about
him. He said, that after the offending
members had been separated, Mr. Lyon met
Mr Grifwold without the bar of the house
and began to belabour him with his cane,
when they were again separated. The at
tack of yesterday, Mr. P. said, at the time
when the house ought to have been in session
though it had not come to order, would
fix an indelibleJlain upon it; and if these
members were not expelled no member could
consider himfelf as fafein his feat. Such a
tranfaftion would certainly lower that house
in the estimation of their constituents. He
had even heard this morning, as he came to
the hall, persons in the street call out, There
is nothing to do in Congress to-day—there's no
fighting going on! In order to get rid of
tkefe reproaches, he hoped all parties would
unite in expelling these members. If their
constituents chose to fend them back, he
hoped no member would jffot iate with, or
take notice of them. And if a vote of ex
pulsion should be agreed upon, he would af
terwards move'to expunge from the Journ
als, all the entries relative to these disgrace
ful proceedings.
Mr. Nicholas wished the motion to lie up
on the for the present, because he was
not himfelf prepared to decide upon the
fubjeft; he wished also, that whenever the
motion was taken up, gentlemen might
came with their minds determined upon it,
so that a long debate might noc be necessary.
He therefore moved to postpone the consid
eration of this resolution on Monday.
Mr. Gordon wiflied to know what part
of the resolution the gentleman from Vir
g'nia was not ready to aft upon?
Mr. Nicholas did not understand the drift
of the gentleman's question. If he meant
to a fit whether he (Mr. N.) disapproved of
the vote he had already given, he would an
swer him, he did not.
Mr. J. Williams said he should approve
of the motion for postponement, if it were
made for to-morrow, instead of Monday ;
ana he hoped the business would not only be
taken up to-nioriow, but be concluded be
fore they rose. He had fat with great pa
tience during the late debate ; but he should
be opposed to going into any farther lesgthy
proceedings 011 so disagreeable a fubjeft,
which would prevent them from doing the
business of the nation, for which they were
sent.
Mr. Nicholas had no objeftion to make
the question the order for to-morrow, if the
house met.
Mr. Thatcher observed, that he had be
fore said that he had seen nothing on the
part of Mr. Lyon inihe affray of yesterday
which ought to fubjeft him to expultion ;
but the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Par
ker) said, that if he (Mr. T.) had had his
fyes about him he might hove seen fomc
thing for which he ought to be expelled.
If, indeed, he had eyes behind he might have
seen what he alluded to, but this sot being
the cafe,he did net fee it. Aa far as ills bu
siness refpe&s Mr. Lyon.fome enquiry might
be necessary; as all that saw he was, that
Mr. fuffered much, without any of
fence on his part. He thought, therefore,
the business fliould be gone into, as on a
formei occasion, and that they ought to ex
amine the fubjeft with cando'jr, and- then
thsy (hould doubtless decide upon it with
propriety.
Mr. Sitgrcaves was against the poUpiae-"
ment, in order that a different course might
be taken. He knew nothing in this cafe
which diftinguiflied it from a late cafe, and,
therefore, could not fee why the fame course
ought not to be purfucd as was then pur
sued. He (hould, therefore, vote agamlt *.
postponement, in older that the refolutioa
might be referred to the committee of pri
vileges.
Mr. Harper enquired whether fue'n a mo
tion would nofefupercede a motion for post
ponement.
The Speaker said it would.
Mr. Harper then made the motion.
Mr. Gallatin asked whether he understood
the Speaker rightly, that a motion for a re
ference to a committee fupercededa motion
for postponement?
The Speaker faicK he did.
Mr. Nicholas asked whether it would not
then be in order, to pwftpons the considera
tion of the fubjedft ?
The Speaker answered, it \yould.
Mr, Nicholas renewed the motion for *
poliponement till to-morrow.
Mr. Harper believing that it would be
proper to refer this resolution to a commit
tee, astefore, elpecially as fomeof thc-fc&s
did not pals within the view of the hou.fei._-,
he (hould (hould voteagainlt the postpone
ment. Not because he wished to avoid a
vote on the question"; for Tf it (hould be
opinion of the house that it ought not to g» •
to a committee, he was perfectly -ready-to ••
give a vote upon the question ; but he tho't;
it better that the business (hould have this
course. With refpeft to any discussion be- "
ing necessary upon this fubjetl, he p.-rhap*"-
might think it necessary to make some ob^»
fervations upon it„ when the queftipii came
before the house for decifiou ; for though -
some gentleman might be endued with the."
happy faculty of doing every thing in an in- '
ftant, he could not boast of possessing that
faculty. But even if he were no* desirous'
of discussion for his own information, he
wi(hed it jjor the information of the public
and notwithstanding all that the house had
heard aboat a wade of public moneyVml
public time, he believed they (hould best
serve the public by fuffering the bufmefs te
take the usual course.
The motion for a poftpontment was put
and negatived.
Mr. Sitgrcaves then movtd that the re
folutioa be referred to the Committee of
Privileges. ~
Mr. Harper moved that the committee
have leave to fit during the session of the
house.
Mr. Thatcher thought, as it was proba
ble a number of members might be wanted,
to give evidence, the house had better ad
journ, as on a former occasion, as it would
not be proper to go on with business when
so many members were absent.
Mr. T. Claiborne hoped leave would not
lie granted for the committee to fit immedi
ately. He wiftied them coolly to deliberate
upon the business, which they could scarce-
Iy be expected to do, while their passions
were so ilrongly affeAed as they rauft be at
present.
The question for leave to (it during the
session was put and carried 45 to 36.
Mr. Harper movtd that the committee
be inftru&ed to report 10 the house the evi
dence, in writing, upon which they fliall
found their report.
Mr. Ivittera thought the fafts were so
notorious that there was no neceflity for this
inftruftion.
Mr. Harper said, if his friend from Penn
fylvaoia could fay that every body would be
fatisfied with the report of the committee,
without the evidence, lit would not infill
upnn his motion. But if the evidence was
not reported, how could he fay that all the
might not again be called before
the house. It was his wi(h to prevent this.
Mr. J. Willia.Tls said, there was a co'nffd
erable difference betwixt this tranfaflipn and
the one lately under consideration. He
thought iu this cafe, it would probably save
much trouble to report the evidence.
Mr. Brooks said" it mult" be recolledlec!
that the gentleVnan from Virginia was not
fatisfied with the former report. He wish
ed to hear the witnesses themselves; and if
th e evidsnce was to be reported, he di|d not
suppose it would be fatisfa&ory.
Mr. Nicholas seconded the motion, be
cause it would be likely to (horten the bu- • *
(inefs ; but if, when the testimony came to
be reported, there was any obfeurity 111 it,
he (hould feel it necessary to aftc the~wftnef
fes questions by way of elucidation ( at e
very man who was called upon as a judge,
(hould be in full poffeffton of every faCtre'-a
tive to the fubjeft.
Mr. Brooks said the gentleman jiift fat
down, would have no difficulty in pointing
out some obfeurity, in order to furnilh an a
pology for a re-hearing of the witnesses.
Mr. Kittera. If to report the evidence
would prevent the uecefiity of hearing the
witnesses in the house, he (hould not objefl
to it ; but he believed this would not be the
cafe.
Mr. Venable was before of opinion, that
it would have beea bell for witnesses to have
delivered their evidence in writing ; he ho
ped that course wovld now be taken, and
then there would be no difficulty in report
ing it to the houfj ; and if it (hould b: found
necessary, in order to elucidate any part of
it, to put any quellions to the witnesses i»
the house, the business would be greatly fa
cilitated and (hortenqd by the evidence be»
ing reported.
The quellion was put and carried.
[7*» tr Cmtinved.~\By this day's Mail.
NORFOLK, February 8.
Latest Foreign News,
Received by the ship Flora, Copt. C:l!cy,
arrived on Monday in Hampton Roads
from, Guernfey—'poffage 44 days. 1
1
LONDON, Dec. 11. |
The Portuguese minister at Paris has ]
received, by an extraordinary courier, i
from his court, the unconditional ratifi- 1
cation of the treaty of peace concluded '
between the two countries. It was at
firft doubted whether the Directory, in •
consequence of her Majesty's readiness, '
would conclude the ratification on their 1
part ; yet it was hoped that the minister,
M. A'Aranjo, might be able to appease ;
them, and it is now generally believed, '
that the ratification has taken | 1
While Buonaparte is proceeu.ng on
the business of the congress at Raftadt, 1
Gen. DufTeau continues the organization
of the' army »f England. Inftru&ions
are said to be sent to Spain, relative to
the part which the navy of that country
is to. take in the expedition against Bri
ton.
The Directory intend to appoint a Mi
nister Extraordinary to the court of lscr- i
]in, to compliment his Prussian Majesty
on his acceflion to the throne ; an accef- I
Con which they consider, at this time,
very important, when England and
Russia endeavor to circumvent the young
king, that they may.get poffeflion of his
mind, which is said to be bold and
cnterprizing, aiid secure in their favor
the influence 0 f the cabinet, which will*
be very canikierable in the congress at
Raftadt.
The Hamburgh mail of the 28th ult.
fays, that the Ruffian court has entered
into a new connexion with a German
power } but neither the name nor terms
are mentioned.
December 14.
Saturday, some dispatches were received
at Lord Grcnville's office, from the Hon.
Mr. Walpole, his Majesty's envoy at
Liibon, at Dropmore. These advices
are said to be of a very unfavorable nature.
The English troops, from the late tfeaty,
under the command of Gen Stuart, are
reduced to fait provisions. Earl St.
"Jinceßt still continues off" the harbour
of Lisbon, and the next accounts arc
looked for with expectation, as import
ant to this country.
A packet was also received at the
Portuguese minister's in South Audley
Street, who soon after dispatched a
meflage to Count de Pombeiro at Bath.
It is now confirmed that a peace between
France and Portugal is concluded.
The owners of French privateers now
make immense profits. A share of 4000
livres on a privateer of Bourdeaux pro
duced, in tliree weeks, a dividend of
84,000.
Thomas Muir, President of the Scotch
Defenders, who was to Botany
Bay, whence he effffted his escape, has
arrived at Bourdeaux, and is on his way
to Paris.
Mr. Tiemey comes forw? »Kf this day
to meet his constituents ofFthe fubje<ft
of the Affefied Taxes—when some very
strong resolutions, expressive of their
inability to pay such an iniStafe of the
public burthens will be adopted. How
the minister came to adopt such a plan
is astonishing, for the colle&ors, one
and all, declare, it is with the utmost
difficulty they can get the present taxes.
A notice was yesterday read in the
Church of St. Anne's, Soho, for conven
ing 4 meeting of the inhabitants refpeft
ing the affefied taxes, which is to be held
on Thursday next. The opposition
which Mr. Pitt's unprecedented plan of
finance will meet with, by the parishes
in general, cannot fail of having a proper
effeft.
Several of the principal inhabitants of
the different parilhes in »Westminster
have transmitted to Mr. Fox their opin
ion of the new plan of finance,-declaring,
that, if passed into a law, it cannot be
enforced without some very mifchieyous
circumstances ; at the lame time re
questing his attendance in Parliament to
oppose the measure.—They have also
requested his attendance at their
different parochial meetings, in order
that he may form a better judgment of
the wilhes of his constituents.
A< deputation of the common council,
and, livery of Loadon, waited on the right
honourable the lord Mayor, on Saturday t«
request a common hall might be convened,
to take into eonfideration, a petition, to be
prefrnted to the Haufe of Commoni, a
gainftthe affefled taxes: hi» lordlhip order
ed precepts t» be issued for tb« above pur
pose, but it is expe&td the common hall will
not be held till WWriefday. j
The court Martial at Sheernefs, if not an
l'nterefting, will ccrtaiiily prove a tedious bu
siness. Hitherto the evidence bears very
very hard against the prifaner, though no
thing new has come out beyond what we
stated in captain Walker's examination.
December 19.
From Madrid it appears, that the Coun
cil nf Castile have been charged by the king
to make a report upon, the sentiments and
temper of the Monks and other ecclesiastics.
The number of people in the capital is to
be ascertained, measures for public fafety
increaled, and every means adopted for re
ducing the price of provisions.
ExtraS of a letter from Plymouth, dated De
cember ) 2.
" At 8 o'clock this morning, a signal for
punishment was made on board the Cam
bridge guardfhip in Hamoaze, and repeat
ed immediately afterwards by the
74g uns > at anchor in the Sound. Soon
after Evans, a Corporal of Marines,
and John Dixon, a seaman, late belonging
to the Saturn man of war, who were tried
on the 37th of July last, and condemned
for a mutiny on board that ship, were bro't
from Hamoaze in the Cambridge's launch,
attended by anjrmed boat from each (hip
in the harbor, See. and put or. toard the
Marlborough, where they remained until
fifteen minutes part eleven o'clock, at which I
time they were, run up at the fore-yard-arm
where they hung for one hour, dining which
time the armed boats continued to row
round the (hip, and several gun boats "were
cruizing off and on during this awful feene.
The above men wrre a part of eight belong
ing to the Saturn, condemned for mutiny,
three of whom were executed on board that
ship on the 1111 of Aiigult last ; btit the
crimes of Evans and Dixon being of a
more atrocious nature than the others, they
were sentenced by the Court Martial to be
hanged in chains after execution ; which Sen
tence being afterwards deemed derogatory
to the authority of Naval Court, it was
referred to the opinion of the twelve judges
who, it is understood, have not fan&ioned
the judgment of the Court, and which has
been the cause why the fate of those un
happy men has been so long suspended."
The following captures are officially announced
in tbe lajl French papers.
The Tiger privateer, Capt. Reboul, hat
sent into Huelva, a Portuguese prize nam
ed t!\e Venus, returning from Brazil loaded
with lugar, &c. and valued at more than
100,000 piastres.
The privateer Le Courfeur, of L'Ori
ent, has taken and brought into port an
English ship from Liverpool to Gibraltar
with a eargo of coals and potatoes.
The.Renard of Bourdeaux, has captured
the Argyle, loaded wich butter and fait
provisions, valued at fifty thousand livres.
The Zelie of St. Malo, has captured an v
English veflel on her passage from Quebec,
called the Friendship.
The Juno, Whedon, from Monferrat to
New-York, is taken by a French privateer.
The Entcrprize, Moran, from Rofsto Newfound
land, is taken by L'Etoile privateer of Nantes.
The Draper, Collins, from Dublin to New-York,
is taken by ihe French.
The Lord Garlics, Colebatcti, from Cork to New
foundland, is taken.
The Argyle, Watson, ps Marypprt, i$ ~takea by
the Renaud French privateer.
HAGUE, November at.
.Admiral Winter'* account of the naval engag-ment
of the nth ult. is now printed, and the Convention
have resolved,
1 Th-t the AtlmiralVfhip the Vryheid,,wai de
fended 10 ihe last.
s. That ihe fcnglifh fleet, though only equal in
the number of the (hips of the line to the Batavian
fleet, v at fuoerior in force.
3 Ihe English covered more sea, and were also
better in concert with other.
That the Fjiglifh fleet had the advantage of at
tack.
5. That tht retreat of fix of the Dutch fliipt was
the chief cause of the lofs«f the battle.
Our two Bate the Pensionary and Count
Bentinck, wi!l be exchanged with Engiand, it is said
for, Admiral Winter and another of «ur naval com
manders.
FRANCE.
PARIS, December 6.
The three m«nths of the Presidency of
Reveilliere Lepeaux being expired, Barras
it declared President in his (lead.
The following persons have been arrested
on a charge of being implicated in a royal
conspiracy, discovered by the Minister of
Police.
Noel, Infpe&or of the Police under Co
chon ; Molieu of Calais, already implicated
in the affair of Donan and Brothier, More
us, Pollct, Dupont, Fontaine, Choulan,
Fillot, Francois, formerly advocate at Ma
' and 1 a female named Poifliere, with her
brothers.
What is as yet known of this conspiracy
does not afford a very clear or difliuft idea
• of it. The conspirators are faid'to be ac
complices of those philanthropic focieiies
mentioned in the papers that were printed
at the epoch of the 18th Fruftidor. Their
means of counter revolution were the ma
" nagementof the approaching eleflions, so
as to royal'me them, and exclude the repub
licans. All the persons arrested are confi
ned in the Temple.
December 7.
The day before Buonaparte arrived at Ra
ftadt he went topay a visit to gen. Angereau
at Offenbourg.
We are just informed that he arrived at
Paris last night about I* o'clock. He will
receive his solemn audience the next decade
. in the palace of Luxembourg. A grand
dinner will be given on that day to the corps
. Diplomatique and the President* of the con
stituted authorities ; afterwards there will be
a ball at the Odeon.
A great part of the army of Italy has re
turned into France.
Bernadocte is appointed commander ®f the
army to be affemblcd on the voaft near Dun
kirk.
December 8.
New arreftt have taken place in confe
queacc of the sountrr-revolutionaiy mem
hern cii(covered within these few days past.
We are afTured that several bankers and
some perfo'lß of consequence fire among these
persons. The government has taken on it
felf the exclusive cart of these purfnits, hut
the details remain unknown.
Orders have been given to resign Mentz
to the troops of the republic. This celliun
leads us to prelume with certainty that there
evifti in the treaty of Campo Formio, a se
cret article, by virtue of which the left bank
of the Rhine, ivith the exception of the
Prussian pofleffions, for which we are to treat
on friendly terms with the cabinet of Berlin,
will be abandoned to the French Republic.
They write from the frontiers of Holland
that the new king of Prussia is making great
preparations, aud that the Hessian troops
have been put upon the footing of war.
December 9.
Buonaparte alighted not at the Luxem
bourg, as has been laid, but at his own
house. He was accompanied by Berthier
and Championet. The firil person whom
he received was Barras, who on the very e
vening fpeut several hours with him.
On the 7th Bounaparte, after having had
an interview with Talleyrand at the office of
the Minifler of Foreign affairs, repaired
with him to the house of Barras, whither
he went to meet the President of the Direc
tory and hi» friend He had afterwards a
conference of more than two hours with the
Members of the Direftory, affembkd at the
place of their fitting.
Ytfterday the Bth, he waited on all the
Minillers in the Administration of the De
partments in the place de VeDdome, where
he was complimented by the ex-Conventi
onalilt Matthieu, the CommifTary of the
Direftory-
The Tribunal de Cassation delegated se
veral of thfrir Members to wait on him, and
these he received with marks of diftinftion.
The Rue Chanterieure which he inhabits
is almost as solitary as usual—-He has de
termined to fee very few people, and ft ill
more not to make himfelf cheap. In order
to avoid the general euthufiafm, he (lrans
all frequented places.
General Joubert, who bears the colours
of the Army of Italy arrived ytfterday in
this citv. *
Madame Buonaparte will arrive in two
or three days.
Buonaparte has already declared that he
will set off for Raftadt on the 16th inft.
December 10.
Letter«from*Hamburgh speak of an offen
five and defenfive alliance as on the point of
being concluded between Prussia and Ruflia.
The Spanish consul at Lyons has given
notice to persons trading, as well by sea as
by land, to Spain, that henceforward they
will be obliged to make oath before him
that the merchandizes which they ship for
exportation are not of English manufacture
and that then he will deliver them a certifi
cate so enter Spain.
We are afTured that the number of pri
soners in the Temple amounts to 98.
The Batavian Convention has resolved
not to ex aft of the Public Functionaries the
oath of hatred to the Stadtholderfhip, Ari
ftocracv, and Anarchy. This oath was re
jefted by a great majority.
December 11.
The Direftory published, on the 9th
inft. the following anet;
The Executive Direftory, eonfidering
that the peace concluded with the Emperor
demands new distributions of the forces of
the Republic, resolves provisionally as fol
lows :
rtrt. I. Otncral Berthier, chief of theftaff of
the army of Italy, is appointed peaeral iu chief of
the said army. He is peculiarly charged with di
recting the operations resulting from the treaty of
Campo Formio, ani the movements of evacuation,
which are the eenfequence* thereof.
The military divifians of the army of the inte
rior, formerly f«bjcisled to the conamaud of the
general in chief of the army of Italy, form 13 lon
ger a part of that army.
*. The army of Germany {hall te divided into
two armies, one Oaall be called the aanyof che
Rhine, and the nther the army of Merita.
The arrr.y of the Rhine (hall be compnfed of
that part ot the aAtiaj army of Germany which it
now placed in the departments of Mont Terrible,
and of the upper and l.ower Rhine, and in the
opposite positions on the right banks of the Rhine.
General Aneerean it appcimed reneral in chief
of this arijiy.
4. The army of Mrnrz (hill cotifift of the re
mainder of the actual army of Germany, which
occupies at present the conquered provinces on the
right and left banks of the Rh ne. General Hatry
is appointed general in chief of that army. He is
particularly charged with directing the military
operations relative to the occupation of Mentz,
and to the execution of the treaty of Campo For
mio.
?. The corps which is in the territory of the Ba
tavian Republia, Ihall remain under the orders of
the general of division who commands it
b. General Buonaparte i» to take upon himfelf
the command of the army of England, a«f«on a?
his dip'omatic nvflion refpeitiuj the execution of
thetreatyof Campo Formio, (hall be terminat.d.
In the meanwhile, citizen Defaix Ihall command
that army as general tn chief
7. Thtpref. Nt arret (hall be printed in the bul
letin of the laws. The rainiltcr at war it charged
with itaexecution.
¥. BARRAS, President.
* LAQARDE, Secretary Oen.
The ratification of the treaty of CampioFor- 1
mio, on the ;th Oil, was yederday celebrated
with great pomp. The members of the direc
tory in their grand cojlufne, the foreign ambafla.
dors and envoys, the nriniftry, &c. being aflein
bled in the great court of Luxembourg, Gene
rals Buonaparte, Joubert, and Andreofly made
their appearance, under repeated shouts of nu
merous fpeiftators —Long live the republic !
Long live Buonaparte ! Long live the French
nation !"
Gen. Buonaparte being prefeoted to the di
rectory by the minifler for foreign affairs, the
latter delivered a speech of eonliderable length,
wherein, after having pifled an ingenuous eulo
giitrn on his'ulents, virtues and exploits, he
pbferved tlat a new enemy was calling upon
him. " This enemy," he faijl, "is celebrated
for his hatred again ft the French, and for the
insolent tyranny he exercises over all'the nation
upon earth. L<t the genius of Buonaparte
make him scon expiate h s hatred and tyranny,
dictate to the tyrants of the sea a peace worthy
of the glory of the French republic."*
At the end of this speech General Buona
parte delivered to the prtGdent the Emperor's
rati£cation of the treaty of Campo Formio, and
addrefied the directors in the following terms t |
" Citizen Dirc-d.or*,
" The French people, in or.'er to he free, had
ki igs to combat. To old nn a cinlluiiuou
founded on rcafon, they had to overcome the
picjudices of eighteen centuries. Religion,
royalifm, and the feudal fyflem governed Enrope
for twenty centuries pall ; but with the peace
which you have concluded, begins the sera of
reprtlVmaiive governments. You have i'ucceed
ecl in organizing the great nation, whose vast
territory is circumscribed only by those limits ,
which nature herfelf his traced. Y 111 have d.me i
more—The two fiiieft countries of Europe,once
celebrated for the arts, fcieiices, and great men
tliey produced, leethegenius of liberty rife frin
t!ie tombs of their ancestors. They arctwo pe
ilettals on which fate is going to place two pow
erful nations.
" I have tie honor to deliver to you the trea-»
ty Ggned at Campo Formio, and ratified by his
majesty the emparor. This peace letures the li
berty, the prosperity, and the glory of the coun
try. Wl>en the happine!* of the French peo
ple ftiall be firmly fettled on the bafts of the best
j&d wi|tft laws, all Europe will be free."
This speech was received with the milt en
thufiaflic shouts oi'applatifc, and answered by
the prtfident of the dirnflory, who concluded
his h-irangue in t)ie following manner :
" Citizen General ! Crown so glorious a ca
reer by a eonquelt which the gicat nation owes
to its cutiag- d dignity. Go,and by the punifb
ment you iulli& on the cabinet of LoiiUon, llrue
terror into all governm.-nts which dare to doubt
the power of a nation of freemen. Pompey
did not disdain to crulb a licit of pirates. Great
er than the Roman geneial, go and chain down
the gigantic pirate who lords it over thejeas; go
and punilh ill London crimes which have re
mained unpunished but too long. Numerous
votaries of liberty wait your arrival; you will
find no enemy but vice and wickedntf*. They
alone support that perfi Itous government—strike
it down, and let its downfall inform the world,
that if the French people are the benefa<stors of
Europe, :hey are also the avengers of the rights
of nations."
At the end of '.his speech the p-efident, and
alt the nieAibers of the dirc&ory, g ve him the
fraternal embrace ; and after the ceremony was
over, the dirtftors, general Buonaparte and
Joubert, the minillers, foreign amhaffatfors, &c.
fat down to a superb dinner, during which, a
mong other toasts, the foil* .ving was drank :
" The liberty of the feaa j and may the repub
lican armies loon rescue thein from the yoke of
thai oppreflive government which has so long
t\>annized the globe I"
COUNCIL OF FIVE HUNDRED.
Sitting of Dec. 9.
Villers called the attention of the council to
the wishes exprefled by* several citizens to furnilh
voluntary contributions for carrying 011 the war
against England It appeared necsflary to regu
late the mode of contributing, and he moved
that the commiflion of finance lhould present a
projet on thtt head. Agreed to. v
A meflage from the direiSWry dated that the
ratification of the treaty of peace with the em
peror would be presented to-morrow, and that
difpofi'tions were made with refpeli to further
operations, which were, in the opinion of the
directory, capable of fatisfying all true repub
licans.
BALTIMORE, February If.
A Melancholy Fact.
.By a gentleman, just from the Sufquc
hannah, we are informed, that on Saturday
the loth instant, some malicious persons
wilfully set fire to and burnt a house near
the Canal, wherein were fix persons, all of
whom were consumed. The particular*,
as far as we can understand, are, that some
people belonging to the canal lodged with
the people of the house, whu disagreed, and
the party of the house having proved too
strong for the others, they went off; but
returning some time after with several others
entered the honfe by violence, killed two
children, and threw .them behind the fire;
then faftening the others in, set fire to the
house and burnt it; with all its contents.
The above gentleman further adds, that he
saw the body of one person, not wholly con
famed, and that five of the perpetrators of
this villainous deed were taken, and are in
confinement. ( Fed. Gaz.J
Xlje <!sa3ette*
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY EVENING, fEBKWAkr 17.
ExtraS of a Utter from Norfolk of the Bth
tnjlaftt.
" I have a letter from my correspondent
at Guernsey datedthe - 2lft December, Hat
ing the intentions of the Direftory as hoflile
to this country, and in consequence some
veflels under American colors which had
been taken *p to load, had been flopped
from proceeding under a fear that a rupture
was unavoidable."
MR. TEMtiO,
The attempts of the friends of disorder
and confufion which were so fuecefsfully u
sed at the two late meetings at I.efher's and
Benders, in the city and Northern Liber
ties, were repeated this evening at Mr.
James Cameron's tavern, but we are happy
to fay this attempt met with a more deser
ved and a very different fat£.
A Room in the above tavern was engag
ed by a few citizens on behalf of a larger
number (whose determination was to sup
port Benjamin R. Morgan at the approach
ing eleftion) with the view of deliberating
on and adopting such measures as they
(hould think necessary in the peaceable pur
suit of this determination.
Several attempts were made in the «arly
part of the evening by the friends of Israel
Israel, to obtain admifiion ; but these pion
eers of confufion relinquiihed their attempt
after being repeatedly aflured that the meet
ing contemplated was solely for the friends
ef Mr. After the retreat of these,
when the meetiug, which was numerous and
refpeftable, had organized themselves, and
proceeded to bufmefs ; the attempt to de
j feat its objeft was renewed by a numerous and
i daring mob, who attempted in defiance of
1 the above aflurance, which was frequently
| repeated—to force themselves intotheroom;
, but was firmly refilled, and repelled ; and
: after vainly endeavoring to silence by clam
our and confufion out of doort, what they
had been prevented from effefting by force
within, they retreated.
The meeting then proceeded to the bufi
nef» of the evening, which was conduced
and concluded wiih r-eguJa'-y, and de.orum,
Sut by this time, the foci of disorder a:ul
confuJon had returned, flrengthened in iiiim»
ber, and determined in their ptirpofe. Ti.ey
again attempted lo force themselves into the
room, and again were fuccefufully refilled
and expelled, when they a.Tailed andijp-oke
the door of the house with Hopes, trick:,
and whatever arm 3 thcirrage and disappoint.
ment farnilhed.
As this proceeding threatened the lives
ef those who had hitherto confined them*
selves to e defenfivj; pofiifou, it was no lon
ger to be tolerated by men determined that
neither their persons nor their rights (hould
be violated with impunity. Thty there
fore, with a becoming spirit sallied out of
the r room, andchaftifed, dispersed and fi
lcnced those who had thus undertaken to in
terrupt and infringe one offte dearefl lights
of Freemen. The individual moll injured,
will, 'it is hoped learn prudence from the
lefTon he received ; and the tniftaken friend#
of anti-fed«ralifm in the diltridl and else
where, it is also hoped will now abandon a
party which has already began to fy lfemizs
confufion and disorder. FACT.
MR. FINNO.
I attended the meeting lift wednesday e
vening of the Federalists in Southwark—
Nothing gqve me more pfeafure than the
reading the last address of President Wash
ington to the people of the United States
by the Secretary. It was introduced by
one of the diftrift, and unanimously agreed
to be read: although lengthy, it was attend
ed toby the meeting, xruhthatrtfpeiS which
itfo justly merits from all real friends to their
country. The excellent doftnne and advice
it contains, deserve to be written in letters
of gold; and if duly and properly attended
to St this moment, when the very foundati
ons of our excellent constitution and la\vs
are menaced, by a daring and outrageous
foreign and dumiftic faftion, I think it
would have a very excellent effedl—and I
hope you will be kind enough to give it a
place in your paper immediately, as it may
be read before the eleftion that will very
shortly aommence.
An admirer t,f the Mount Vernon Cincinnati.
At a numerous meeting of the citizens of
the citizens of Southwark, and townfhipof
Moyamenfing, at the house of Mr. James
Csmeron, in Shippen street, the following
resolution was unanimously adopted.
Resolved, that this meeting taking into
confidcration the virtues, talents, and patri
ot ifni of Benjamin R. Morgan, do a
gree to support him individually as Senator
at the ensuing eledtiori, being fully convinc
ed that he will ufc his utmost exertions to
support the laws and constitution of the U«
nited States, as well as of the State of
Pennsylvania.
JOSEPH BIRD, chairman
Clement Humphrey's junr. Sec'y.
February 16th 1798.
At a numerous meeting of the Citizens
of the DiftriA of Southwark, and town
ship of Moyamenfing, at the tavern of Capt.
John Rice, Mr. Joshua Humphreys in the
chair
Resolved, That we will use our utmost ex
ertions to support Benjamin R. Morgan,
at the ensuing election of Senator to repre
sent the city and county of Philadelphia,
and county of Delaware ; being convinced
that at this time, peculiarly important, and
1 interesting to all the advocates of the ad
miniltration of the government of the U
nited States, to support thofewho are known
| to be the fiiends of order and good govern
ment, is a nieafure which our duty compel*
us to adopt.
JoJhua Humphrey 1, Chairman.
Peter /Viienten, Sec'ry.
• 14th Feb. 1798.
Ma meeting of a number of the Citizens of the
city and county of Philadelphia, at Ogden't
Tavern, on Tuesday, 1 3th February, j 798,
it mat unanimously resolved.
To support Benjamin R. Moroan,
at the ensuing Eleftion, as Senator for the
Diftrift, composed of the city atid connty
of Philadelphia, and county of Delaware.
LAWRENCE SECKEL, Chairman.
M. Keppele, Secretary.
The managers of the City Danc
ing /• fT.mbly give netiee that on j«co*tit of an E r
lcftion to be held on Ihurfday the ijd inft. the
is Pbfloncd to Friday the 13d inftajut.
Ladi-» and Gentlemen are r quelled to deliver
their Cards of Invitation at the door.
Feh - ' T - §t»d
NEW-THEATRE.
THIS EVENING,
FEBRUARY 17,
4JP THE Public ar? rt fpe<stfu[ly iuf.>rmerf, the
Tragedy of the ORPHAN, in conference of the
sudden indisposition of Mr. Fimniil; is changtd
for the Comedy of
The J E W.
Sheva, ... Ur. B-rnird
« Frederick, - - Mr. Marfhatl
f liza. - Mr» Marshall
To which will be addH (for the 3d time) a Grand
Heroic Pantomime Ballet and SpeiSacle, taken
from OJfitn, e.lled
OSCAR AND MALVINA.
[CompeJVd by Mr. Cyme—and performed under
his direction at the Theatre, Covent Garden,
npwards of two hundred nights.
The new Mulic con.posed -and the ancient Scot)
M ufic ielc-flcd ard adapted by Mr. Shield. The
Overture by Mr. Reeves
Oscar, (the descendant of Finjal) mr Byrne—
Carroi, (the Scottiih Chieftain J mr Hardinge—•
Fingsl,- mr Taylor—Morven, mr Marihall—Dra
co, mr Warrell, jun—Scotch Pedlar, (with the
ong, • I am a jolly gay Pedlar') mr Francis-
Scotch I.ad, mr F»x.
ScotchLaffie.mift Milbourne—Malvina (daugh
ter to Tofcar) mr» Byrne.
Principal Bard, mr Darley.
Btrdi- MelTu. Fox, Warrell, T. W -rell. Hun
ter, Bliffett, Matthew, Sec—irrs Warrell, m.fr
Milbourne, mn Stuart, mrt Hunter, mad Hat
wood, fee.H ;ufe and Lots, in BorJsrUo-wn.
r T'O BE SOLD, a handforae two story Hou r e,
-i with the I.*»t on which i* is ere&ed, situat
ed about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
Village or Bor<lento\rn. The hoyfe is farty
i«u fret in front, and in neat order, the lot
contains oiic aci., and is one hundred feet on
the
bre.Jtt, to back llreet. Alio, » large Lot, con
uining nearly four acres, fepirated from the
former by back ftreei. One third only of the
purchase money will be required upon execut
ing a deed, and for the remainder, such credit
w II be given *sthe purchaser may chufe. This
property will be soW free of all incumbrances,
and an indisputable title given.
For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnett, residing in B»rdentown, near
the premises, who will (hew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, No. 144, Market-street.
December 1. 3awtf
"Saiilbury Eitate.
THE Subscriber, proposing t. co«traS his biifi
neffc, offers this Estate for sale, ®o moderate
terms. Oo it are one Blast and three Air
a complete Boreing Machine, and a .cry good grift
Mill, with two pair of stones ; also a good Forge, all
i. perfect repair, as are all the Water Works conneft
crl with thele various branches. The Air Furnaces
weie lately built for the purpose ef calling Csnnon
for this State.—There are aboui two thousand acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Pasture. The Cannon lately mannfaitured there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
(uperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one of sixty-nine guns
lately made, although some of the 24 were
info 33 pounders, have failed on proving. The ntu
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufacture, aid place of arms lying in the state .
of Conneftifut,and only 30 miles from several land,
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water ifluing
hom a targe natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful plrpofes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all theftotkand utensils, and have poffeflion
on or before the firft of June next, and preparation
may be made in the mean time for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for etery pan will be delivered
ia good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. &c. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; Bavid Brooks, Elq. one of the Representatives
!j» Congress for this State ; Mr, Bavid Waterman, on
the premises, or to the proprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSOSU
Dee, t. 3ar tf
To Cabinet Makers, Joins is, &c.
Cavanagh & Hearn,
Pine street, near tie New-Market,
RETURN thanks to their friends and the
public, for their liberal encouragement,
and hope, by their unremitin» attention, to
merit a continuance of their favors. The part
rerlhip between them and Joseph B. Barry, has
been dilTolved by mutual conient. Cavanagh
and Hearn havejuft received a quantity of St.
Domingo and Hondura* Mahogony, which they
intend to fell on very reasonable terms for cafc.
Orders from the country nioft puruHually exe
cuted. Vincers of all kinds cat a. ulual.
lan. I<. sawyw
Recently Publijhed,
Ard just imported from England, by William
Griffiths, No. 177, South Second street, and
may be hai of Moils n J. Ruees,
A Cheap and valuable work, in two closely
printed volumes jn Bvo. (pries j dollars)
llluftrations of Prophecy :
In which are elucidated many prediiftions, which
occur inffaiah, Daniel, the writings of the Evan
gelists, and book of Revelation ; which are tho't
to foretell anaong oth»r great events, a revolution
in France, avorable to the interets of mankind,
the overthrow of the papal powsrandof ecclesi
astical tyranny, the downfall of civil defpotilm,
wid?hcfubfcquent isielioration of the state of the
wcrld : together with
A large collcdion of Extracis,
Interspersed throngh the work, and taken from
numerouscommentators, particularly from
Joseph Mede, Sir lfaac Newton,
Vitrtnga, Mr. William Lowth,
Dr. Th. Goodwin, Fleming,
Dr. Hctta y More, Bengelius,
Dr. John Owen, Dauhuz,
Dr. CrelTener, Whitby,
Peter Jurieu, 1 owman,
Brenius, Bishop JJewton, and
Bishop Chandler, Bishop Hurd.
By JOSEPH LOMAS TOWERS.
Btfides various other inquiries treated of in
this work, ami numerous illustrations of prophecy ;
it oonfains a considerable number of fadls or ob
fervationson the symbolic language of prophecy,
tl* authen:icity, uses, and ebfeurity of the apo
c«lypfe, and the genninenefs of the Hebrew pro
pheo; on the rapid cnrrupti.n of christianity in
the fourth century ; on the difperlion andreftora
tien of the Jews, the history of the fal£e Mefliahs
who have appeared among them, and the rtafons
iu support of the coßje&ure that the Afghans *re
the lisfcendants of the ten tribes ; on the right of
r«<lftar\e to oppreSon; on the irruptions of th*
northern nations, and the causes of the decline and
fall of the Roman empire ; on the customs of the
Tartars, and the independence of the Arabs; on
the eonquefts of those nations, and those of the
Turks ; on the usurpation of the Mamalukes, and
th. past history and present state of Egypt : on
the chara&cr and condu3 of Conftantine, juftini
n, Clovis, and Lewis XIV ; on the scarcity of
hooks in the dark ages, and the caufcs of the de
cline of literature ; on th. rapid rife of the French
monarchy, and the causes of its faii; on the in
- confiftencics in the political charaflers of bishops
Newton and Hurd; 011 the peculiarities of Dr.
Th. Burnet's theory of the earth ; on the beneficial
eficds whichehriftianity has produced in favor o:
learning civil liberty, and its tendency topre
mote the eitaMifhment of equal governments.
Independent of the large proportion of original
matter contained in these volirmes, those who are
Interested in thefubje& will, it isp efumed, wish
to petnfe or confultthem, because the extraets in
troduced ia them, which are accurately cited, and
marked with inverted commas, are taken from a
greater number of writ rson the prophecies ($•
l.aft if the roman caskc.lic commentators be ex
cluded) than are easily acceflibleto any one indivi
dual even in Europe, or are probibly to be found
ia any one library in the world. They are f»r
nifheJ with indexes, »nd a co: ious table of con
tents. J an - 21 —>awiw
Imported inthelhipManchester,
Benjamin Shewell, Matter,
From Bourdeaux, and for sale by the subscriber,
No. 11, W.alnut St.ett.
Bonrdeaux Brandy ~j
Irilh market claret in cafci ( Entitled to
Mcdoc win«, in do. J Drawback.
Sauteme, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatroyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter ca(k»
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bu(Uelß Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. utkitf.
W. Hay don
Delineator of Dre win*—-from London,
(Where be has studied several years under one of
tht mod eminent matters in tV.at science)
JNFOR.MS his friend*, that he has re-commenc
ed his private tuition*.—Terms, as ufval, Six
Dollars per month, for attendance thfee times a
week. Like wife, allkinds of Ornamental Pai»t
ing, fruit, flow .rs, &c. tawght on *he abo-ve terms.
W. H. flatters himfelf his terms will be particu
larly advantageous to those that oovploy him, as
he makes no additional charge if there are two
pupils in one faraiiy,
A line dire&ed to W. H. left at the office of this
Gszette, will be immediately attended to.
January 9. §aw
To Be Sold,
AGREEABLY to the lad will and testament cf
William Htysuam, deceased, and poflVf
fion given.rmmediately, a valuable property in Arch
street, between Third and Fourth street s, confid
ing of the house, No. 107, with the lot on which
it is ere&ed, a ftabU, and other improvements.-
The house is 10 feet front, and contains ten gflod
apartments. Tile lot is ef the fame breadth as the
house and 109 feet deep, with a well of water and
a very capacious walled ciftc-rn, both with pumps
in goop repair. The flable {lands on the rear of*
the lot and wijl accommodate four Ivrfes and a car
riage. This property enjoys the perpetual privilege
of a 16 feet court and an alley, 8 feet wide,ext«id
kig to Cherry Street. It* central position and the
advantages it pofleflcs with refpeA to free ventila
tion, renders it well worthy the attention of any
perfoa wiihing to poflefsan eligible property in Phi
ladelphia,
For further particulars •nquire at No 88, Vine
Street—of
Roiert HiyshAm,
or f Adling Executors.
FrAircis Bowes Sayrb, j
January XI §
The Subscriber
INFORMS those whom it may interest or con
cern, that th. Judg.s of the Court of Common
Pleas have appointed the iivenly-Jixtb day of
February next,t9 hear him and his Creditors, at the
Court-hout'e in this city, on the fubje& of his peti
tion for the benefit of the Infolvcnt Law—and
that their attondance is deftred.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
PlilaJlif.Hn, Jan. 16. eotx6thF
; The Subscriber intends to make
spplication for the renewal of a Certificate of a Shere
Ui the Bank of the United in the name
of A. B. N0.5004, dated July 11, 1797, the fame
having'been loft. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. I.
The Subscriber,
Informs those to whom he is indebted, that his
books, which have been kept open for their inspec
tion fmce December 1796 are balanced to the 31ft
ult. and will during the present month remain
open at his Counting-house in Chefnut Street for
their further investigation and fcrut ny.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
Philadelphia, Jan. 1^1798.
NOTICE. '
ALL persons who have any demands against
the estate of Fuewtood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly attested ; ami those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, to
GEO. DOnSON, I
No. 25, So. Third-street. 5 Aimint P r
Tanuary 4. dtf
Surveyor General's Office,
December 3, 1797.
ON a relcafe of /urvey of ,433 acres,6B perches
of land, fuuate in lower Smithfield townffcip
Northampton county, iurveyed to William Wills,
per warrant of ad March, 1786, the Deputy Sur
veyor hath made the following note, viz,
Thi=land .(aimed by heirs .f Lewis Gordon and
Seorge Taylor, not known by what right.—Cer
tified fur Daniel Broadhead, Esq. Surveyor Gene
ral—William Parker.
The firft Mopday in March next is appointed for
a hearing of the parties on the a' ove caveat, or any
others interested oc concerned therein, they having
. at leaf! thirty days notice for John Hall, Secretary
of the Land Office,
N. Lufborough.
January 16 §tiFiwtm
Copper for Sheathing,
For Sale, by
SIMON WALKER,
Pine-Jtreet, near Fifth.
January 29 divr
Genteel Boarding and Lodging
To be hael at a moderate price—lnquire a
No. 138, Arch-street. '
Jan. 37. d2w
To be fold,
AN ELEOANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 perctes, with a neat two
story brick House and Kitchen thereon, an 3pple
Orchard, &c. situate on the Irifii traift lane, in tfye
townlhip of Moyarnenfing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upow application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for taste and
elegance, Hand unrivalled.
December 1. dtf
PROPOSAL.
HAVING met with a liberal patronage, the
Subscriber is emboldened to iflue proposals
for printing by fubfeription, the JOURNALS OF
CONGRESS, from their iirfll meeting in 1775,10
the present time.
This work fhali be printed with a new type,
made for the purpefe; and on good paper. It
will be delivered at one dollar per volume (o&a
---vo) in 6 vols.—cafli to be paid on delivery
It is needlcfs to fay any thing ©f the merits of
this undertaking—the scarcity of the Journals
throughout the United Sates, is fufficientto jufti
fy the printer in his hope of meeting with that
success, which he is certain the enterprise deserves.
JOHN PARKER.
Jan. 17- d 6t
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in whole and half tierce*
Rout deaux Brandy
Teneriffe IVine
MoUtjJes
Georgia and Carolina fciligo
Ravens Duck and om hog/head of paint
brujhes.
N. (5* J. Fra7.tr.
No. 95, Sontb Front Street.
Nom. 7» d\m
Juj} Publi/hed,
And to be had of Messrs. Dobfon, Campbell,Rict,
Cary, and the other pricipal Bookfcllers in the
city .price 011 c dollar, twinty-five cents,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, u. ».
June jo. 'it
PROPOSALS,
fOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIprior,
A NEW AND INTERESTING WORK, ENTITiiRD,
A TREATISE
ON THE POLICE OF LONDON,
Containing a detail of the various crime* and pn-if
dcraeanor*, by which public opar
ty, arc, at present, injured and endangered :
And fuggefiing remedies for their prevention/
BY A MAGISTRATE,
A&ing for the counties of Middlesex, Surry, Kent,
aud Essex ; for the city and liberty of Wcftmin
fier ; and for the liberty of the Tower of Lon
don.
T# those 10b• have read this curious and valuablewwor t
it will need no recommendation—they knoiv its solid merit
—but as it has hitherto got into very feiu bands in this
country y it will nst be amfs to obferve —-so great was the
approbation and demand in I ondon, that it pajjld through
three hrge editions in the course of twelve months. As a
detail of the ingenious varieties of fraud, that endanger
property hi Louden, a*d mojl o'.ber overgrown and opulent
'elite,,, it cannot fail to ajfortf the reader great entertainment
as well as inflrttciion ; but as the author traces all thtfc
enormities to a few, and in themselves, inionfidor able caus
es, many of which a dually exifl in all the large capitals of
the United States, the buftnefs is brought borne to our own
doors ; and the work has an iriereaftng claim to our atten
tive ptrufal.
To ajfifl the legijlator and the magijfrate in the humane
office of preventing crimes, and their consequent punish
ments, was the patriotic de/ign of the author. " Private
offences, be fays, are the source f public crime*, and the ,
befl meihfid of guarding foci ity again % the latter is, to make j
proper prtvi Jons, for checking the former'—" Those men
are eaftly feducedfrom their Uya'ty who are apojlotrrfrom
virtue."
CONDITIONS.
This work will be printed in a targe o&avo, on
an excellent Engiifh paper—lt will be delivered to
fubferibers, bound in boards, at the moderate price
of One Dollar and a half; although the last London J
edition, o* inferior paper and meanly bound, is
now fold at ♦wo dollar* and a half. To non-sub
scribers the price will be raised.
Whatever encouragement may be given by sub
scription, it will be committed to the pr»fa without
delay ; and, barring accidents, be roady for
publication early in April.
gj? Subscription* will be thankfully received at
Benjamin Davies's's book-ftoie, No. 68, Kigh
ftreet, and by most of the other booksellers ia the
city ; by George Hill, in Baltimore; and by Sam
uel Campbell, and A. Drummond, in New-Y®rk.
|» January 31. aawtA
ROSS & SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE 9
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in tags and bort»
Jamaica,
St. Vinoents, C RUM.
and Bengal J
300 calks RICF., !nd
A parcel of (hip building RED CEDAR.
Oa. ay. {
To be Exchanged for
Britifb, German, or India Goods,
IN THE PACKAGE 5
A trail of valuable Land
In Lyconr.ing, joining that of the Holland co.
and containing io,ooo Acres.
Inquire of the Printer.
Jan- if.* $
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding-School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
ureand refpeifl, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
flse has received during four years residence in
Philadelphia ; and allures her friends and the
public, so far from intending'to decline her
school, (he has made a fupenor arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended bf Mrs.
Groombridge and matters excelling in (lieir
refpeflive profeffions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Street!.
June sth, 1797. Jimftf
The fitaation is perfeflly healthy : and made
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the house.
" FOR "SALE, at
Wm.: Young's Book Store,
No. 51, Second street, the corner ofChefnut street.
REPORT ef the Committee of the House of
Representatives of the United States, appoint
ed to prepare and r.eport Articles of Impeachment
again ft WILLI BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeached of high crimes and mis
demeanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of
the Houf«of Representatives, authorizing the said
Committee to fit during the recess of Congress, and
inftru«fting them " to enquire, and, by all lawful
" means, to discover the whole nature and extent
" of the offence whereof the laid Wriliam Blount
u stands impeache J, and who are the parties and
" associates therein."
Printed by order of tbe House of Representatives
December 20 §
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. lie Walnut-street,
INFORMS those who wish to recur to the only
means of becoming perfeft in the French Lan
guage, that he has just opened his Librarv, con
fining of upwards of 1500 volumes, the baft cal
culated to afford either ufeful or plea
sure. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may be seen at every book-feller's
in town.
n. b. AH translations from and into the French,
Engiifh and Spanish Languages, exeeu:ea with ac
cural and dispatch. coins noy. I^.
Samuel Pleafants Sff Sons,
No. 74, South Second-Jlreet,
HAVE received a supply of Seasonable OOODS,
which they are now opening for sale, on
reasonable terms. OA 27 —4W
This Day is Publiftied,
BY Mess, Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Ric $ and the
other Booksellers,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
Elegantly printed on IVuve paper, and Hot
preffed,
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of th« several States with each other, and with
that of she United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of eaeh Constitution, and
clafTing together their most important provisions,
tinder the several heads of administration j with
Notts and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
L L. D. anti member of the Coogrefs of the
United States.
Dedicated to the People of the United States.
N. B. A few Copi's priated on an inferior pa
per, at 3-4thsof a dollar.
Employment for the Poor.
FLAX ,0* SPINNING,
Tn be given out every second, fourth, and fiith
day morning, between the :.ours of 10 and H—
back of 00.5*, south Fiiihftr.et, ahove Spruce
ftreet. *oiaw
James C. Sff Samuel W. Fiftier.
at the;r store,
N0.;13, corner of Arch and Front street.
HAVE FOR SALS,
Cotton and worfied Hoficry in trunks, affored
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannel
Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Pullicat silk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs ditto
Ditto Ourrahs
Bengal black TalTeties
4000 piccfii Nankeens, and
Few theft* befl Hyson Tea
jilfo—lsoo boxts best. London Window GJaf9,
from Bby 6, to 19 by 14 —and 15 hhds. Glass
Ware assorted, which they will difyofc of cheaper
than any in the city.
Nov 18 3*awtf
Imported (via New York) on the
fliip Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for
sale by the fubferiber, at N<*. 61, Chclnut street,
between Second and Third Streets, the follow
ing articles .
Maharagonges Charconrra Dorans |
v Chintz and Calicoes Dacca worked muslins I
J Gillis Roma's JSandannoes
Nil las 3c Penfialbes Chafla Romals
Blue cloth Hair ribbon^
MuUMuUhankerchiefs Palempores
Patna do. Banares Opium
LelTcr Cardimunt Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox,
novembor ij tutlis4W
Valuable Books,
Just received by the Fai* American from
London, and now opening and felling by
J. Ormrod, No. 41, Chefnut Street.
CATALOGUES
Of the newly itnpsrtedbooks maybe had gra
tis. These abided to O's usual stock, form an
extensive and elegant collection of ancient and
modern literature, and oomprife books in sun
dry languages and on various fubje&s.
7hit Day u Published,
By J. Or.mrod, (Price 75 cents, handsomely
bound and lettered, and embellithcd with an
elegant frontifpiece and feventv three cuts.)
The Looking Glass for the Mind,
O R,
The Juvenile Friend ;
Being a valuable cotleiflion of interesting and
mifceilaneous incident*, calculated to exhibit to
young minds the happy eft'efls as youthful in
nocence and filial aftedlion—ln prole and verse.
Defigncd to improve and amuse the rising gene
ration.
In the Press, and will be speedily pablilhed,
Dr. DARWIN'S
Plan of Female Education.
Sfibfcriptions for this incomparable work will
be thankfully received by the printer. The took
will contain about three hundred pages, will be
printed with a new type on fine paper, and de
livered to fubferibers neatly bound, lettered and
embellished with in elegant frontifpiece, for one
dollar.
January 3. 3 t.
FOR SALE, bt
William Priestman,
U9, South Front-street, next door to the Cuf
tom-house,
A large ajjortmcnt of
Gold and iilver Watches
A Time Keeper, by Arnold
Some plated Candlellicks
Double barrelled Guns, by Mortimer, maker
to the King of England
Ditto, by Parker
Pair duelling Pistols, by Knubley, Charing
Cross
Reflecting Telefcopo, by Ribright
box of patent Medicines f >
60 lb. Scotch Thread
Small colleilion of valuable Books, and
Books of Prints
30,000 acres of Land in one lot, upon the
Big Sandy, in Mason county, Kentucky, pa
tented by Percival Butler, in 1787-
Also, 14 Lake Erie Lots
Invoices orparcelsof Watehes bought.
January 4. d7t
School Books and Stationary.
W. YOUNG,
No. fa, Second-street, corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS now ready for sale, a very large assort
ment of Engiifh, French, Latin and? Greek
SCHOOL BOOKS. Also, such elementary books
on Science, as are generally read in the academics
and colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY PUBLISHED,
Sheridan's Di&ionary, the sixth edition, in one
large vol. 8 vo price 3. dols.
Ditto, large 1a mo price 1 dol 75 ess.
Ditto, oommon, price 1 dol. 50 cts.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards Pasteboards,
fheathiwg and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, ©f
the best quality, used in the couniing houfc, or
public office.
Catalogues of a mifceilaneous collection of
BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. 06t. 24. —3aw6w
Yellow Fever and Pestilential
Pifeafes.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, in one vol. oitavo.
By William Young, Bookfcller,
No. i 1, Second ftrect, the corner of Chefnut street,
(Price, in boards 8 7 I 1 Cents J
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
A V lEW
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles eftabliftied in the elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN,M. D.
With an attempt to correil some important er
rors of that work, and cases in illuflration, chief
ly feledled from the records of their pra&icc, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br William 7~ates iff Chas. Mkclean.
To which is fubjained, a Treatise on the ailion
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion for the cure of diftafes of indire<£l debility.
Andadiflertation on the sources of Epidemicand,
Peftilentialdifetifes; in whichisattemptedtoprove
by a numerous induction of fai£U, that they ne
ver arise from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain states, or certain vicifTitudes of
the atmofpliere, by Charles Maclean, of
Calcutta.
Nov. ii. jut
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for a generous
rent will be given; to be taken for a year, or on
more for a longer term. Inquire of the Printer.
OA. 17. eotf
Tin Plates,
FOK .SALE BT
SIMON WALKER,
Pine, near Fifth street.
December t*. iw
The cargs of the Weft-Indiau from
Jamaica.hnding at South Street wharf,
136 hhds. and £OO barrel* choice Cosee
98 Hhds of prime Sugar
29 Hhdt. of Rum.
For fait Ify
Peter Blight.
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SMI,
500.000 Lbs of Java Coffee
800 Hags do. Sugar
Cloves and mace in boxes
A quantity of Hifpaniola Cocoa
Ked P»rtWioein pipes and hogftieidt
Madeira do. in pipes
February 6 , d2weotm
A Roman Catholic Clergyman,
Who has been a considerable time on the
million in the country parts of the state of Penu
fylvania, gives this notice to any extensive pro
prietor of land within the said state, and border
ing on either the Potomack, Sufquthanna, or
Juniata rivers ; that he is enabled to make a fat
tlenrient with from fifty to one hundred and fif
ty families, if due encouragement be offered.—
For further Information, apply to the Rev. Leo
nard Neale, Willing's Alley.
Feb. 8. »,t
<d- Stop the Runaway.
ABSCONDFD from his mailer's employ, in the
tit) of Philadelphia, on the sth of this ia
ftant uary, a Negro Man, named Mentsr, a
bout 5 feet 6 or 7 inches in height, and of rather
a spare make ; his phifiognemy is 'vacant but no«
disagreeable ; his age is supposed to be about 40. j
He had on when he went away, a (hort blue clotk |
coat, striped caflimerc reft, corduroy breeches,
and yarn (lockings of a blue and white mixture
he took with him a blue cloth great coat, the cap*
of which is edged with yellow binding ; a long
brown cloth coat ; a ftort blue cloth coat with
buff coloured tape and cuffs ; also, a pair of blu*
cloth breeches ; the other cloath* he took with
him cannot be particularly dcfcribed.
It is supposed, he intends going to the raftern
fin re of Maryland. Whoever will apprehend, and
secure the said negro in any gaol, so that his matter
may get him again , or bring him home, Ihallhave
a reward of twintt dollars.
Apply to the Printer.
February 7. §
FOR. SHE, " ' '
By JOHN MILLER, ju*. & Co.
No. 8, Chcfnut-ftreet,
One hundred and eighty bales
BENGAL GOODS,
Amongst which are,
Gurrahs Manioodies
Baitas Sannas
Guiz.nahs TandaCofTac#
Gu-zziea Emertic9
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palampoors Romall Handkerchief
Amongst them are a great proportion of tfce
manufactures of Patna.
December I. §
Insurance Office of the State of
Pennsylvania.
February I, 1798.
THE Dire&ors have this day declared a dividend
of seventy dollars on ca h fliare of the Hock of the
company, fnr the lad fix months, which will be
paid to the Stockholders or their Itgal reprafenta
tivesafter the loth inft.
JAMES S. COX, President.
February I. dljt
For Sale.
THE Subscriber offers for sale the property now
occupied by him in the town of WeftCheftcr
and county of C heftier. It conftftsof a well finilbed
two flory ft one house, 43 feet front, by abont 40
deep, four rooms on a floor, with cieUd garrets,,
and a cellar under the whol#—A very good (lone
Stable and Coach house—And a lot of Ground;
tkree perehes wide, by twenty percbes depth.
• The house stands on the Main street; its situation
is high and very handsome; the lcl extends to a
back ftreer, on which the stable and coach hottfe
stand. The lot is in a high state ®f cultivation,
and there is in the yard a pump of excellent water*
which has, at no time, been known t® fail.
The situation of the town is high, and remark
ably healthy—the country tround it, fertile and
beautiful.
The terms of payment will made to suit the
purchaser. They, and the price, will be fettled,
upen application to Mr. Jonathan Sm:-th, at no.
149, South Third-street, Philadelphia, or to
ROBERT FRAZER.
February 5. mwfif
City Commissioner's Office,
"January litb, 1798.
FOR THE INFORMATION OF THE CITIZENS.
THE following arrangement is made by the
said commiffieners, for cleajifing the
ltrects, &c.
Diftri<ft No. 1. —From the north fide of Vine
street, to the south fide of Mulberry street; to
be under the fuperinUndarice of Nicjiolas Hicks.
2 From the south fide of Mulbrry street, to
the south fide of CVefnut ftrrect, to be under the
fuperintendahce 0-'" William Moulder.
3. I'rom the south fide of Chefnut street t»
the north fide of Spruce street, to be under the
fuperintendanee of Claypoole.,
4. From the nortMide of Spruce street, to the
south fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu
penntendance of Hugh Roberts. rawfim
Landing this day,
From on board th e schooner Two Friends, Dan*
lei Crawley, Mafttr,
™ ™ d J Jamaica RUM,
FOR SALE BV 1
George Latimer & Son.
no'vemher 9. f
60 Dollars Reward.
RAN AWAY from the fubferiber, on the 34th
of Dscember, 1797, a >f-gro Man, about it
years old, by thr name of Cato.he is about 5 tept
7or £ inches higlvmidling well proportioned; ha
has a very cearfe voice, his fore teeth stand very
far apart; there were one or two with him—l
cannot rightly describe the cloatht he took witH
him, for he took two or three suits ; he had on
when he went away, a pair of kersey trowfers, a
half worn drab coloured coat, a half worn wool
hat ; he took with him four very good (hirts—l
oxpcfl he has made for Philadelphia or the Jerfoy s,
Whosoever takes up said negro and fccuret him, (m
that the owner may get him again, (ball have th&L
above reward, paid by mr, JOHN MOORE,
Living in St ill Pond, Kent county, Maryland.
Tannary 1. *6tlaw
Chocolate and Mustard,
of a superior quality manufactured,
GINGER and Pepper, ground ; Jhelled or
pearl Barley ; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
Ale and Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Ale 5
London Porter ; red, Port and Liibon Wine,
fuitahle for exportation or home confumptioH,
The highest pi ice given for Mustard-Seed.
Also for sale, A quantity of Bocking and
common Baizes, a variety of colors; a bale of
Fustians, Shawls, &c, for sale bv
JOHN HA WORTH,
No. 98, south Front-flreet.
ntv %f. m&ih.t.ij.