7' -V . , ;; _ ■ . .
MtUtCtS f&t&t tS 9 AND
By John Ward Fenno, N°- 119 Cbefnut Street.
toman* \928.] ' PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 21, 1798. \Volvme XIV.
The price of this Gazette is
"l-Eight dollars per annum to Subscri
ber s rejiding in the city of Philadcl
jrbia. /II others pay one dollar ad
ditional, for cnclojin f and directing;
i andunhsfs Jbmt pfrfm in this city will
become anfiveruble for the subscrip
tion, it mult be paid Six Months in
advance.
For Sale,
r+—> the ship
ST<)N PACK£ 1,
HouNCt Co4tf.rthw.it, Maftcr,
linT; [itN a-Vui ».J°° barrels, a g»«- strong
excellent
•?, "y beKo H '.v,th. {*»>! expence: S<ie .. iay
•Jf,,', at Mifflin', wharf. Fez-further parncular en
quire of
Isaac Harvey, jun, or
Smith Sc Ridgway.
v S* 2t
noyembcr 10 f
for Sale*
TUB SHIP
PERSEVFRANCE,
jfMts lyUli&tnfbn, tnojlbf.
Ji.ft arrived fro or St Domir.go, built in Phi
ladtlphra. f live Oak and Cellar, copper (heath-
Vd in Londan, burthen 310 tons mount.ng 16
guns and may be urerared for lea 111 a few days,
With kr Cargo,
Now on Board,
CONSISTING Of
t'fl fWWitsfihr so barrels Sorar
«6c,c00 of
and bags 0
31 Puncheons of Jamaica Rum.
ALSO,
R. Williamson, Majtcr.
JKOi/ISr. Doaimjjo, with her cargo, confining of
43 hogtheads of Sugar.
And 40,000 weight of prime Coffee.
likewise,
TliE BRIG
amiable matilda,
njyl MOUN ING 11 Guns, burthen
two thoufapd two huudred barrels of
aompleat order.—Apply to
. fhorutis & John Ketland.
November 13 . ... ■■■■■-■ 1 *
For London,
THE SHIP
JEAN,
Captain-Dahiel M'Phe*son,
f WILL be ready to take her car
g'j
RoJ's ts* Simfoii.
WHO HAVE FOR SALE,
Superior Teneriffe Wine,
}n quarter calks.
Bengal Sugar, fir (I quality, in boxes and bags.
A few bale* of MuQ.ns.
Rice -in Tierces,
And a fm,all cargo of St. Mai tin's SALT*
n-ovcrn-btr 9 dtf
' For Sale or Charter,
rJE SH,f '
COMMERCE,
John Wood, tnafer.
This (hip is-burthen as perregifler 230 Tons,
will be fold on moderate terms or take freight
for Europe or the Welt-Indies.
Apply to the Cqjtain on board at Latimer's
Wharf, or WILDINGS & FRANCIS.
FOR SALE,
On baard said Skip,
16 Tons of Liverpool house Coal.
nov 4) 1 w
Elliston & Joh>j Perot,
Have for Sale, at
No. 41, North Water-Street,
-Muscovado Sugar l RlVl( , anl H.ndker.hiefs
Copper rnlheetsfc nails . Midein vyiae
upper re g oa l Leather and
q'^p" 1 j-" 8 * A few barrels Shad and
«a,l Canvass Herri
Oznubngs 0
Also For Sale,
BERMUDA-PACKET,
Burthen icß tons--Bermu
tla built, Tails remarkably faft and is well found.
nov 8 v» &f3w
far Sale.
i. DRUG HUSINfcSS, offers For Sale, the
Avhole Stcck of
"Drugs and Medicines, Inftrurnents,
'the ihop is elegant, commodioui, and fuffici
cntly known for the emnfivc bufmefs < one in the
wholesale an 1 retail line ; the situation equal to
: 'f in the city, bring at the cui ncr of Walnut and
•Second flrce«». The whole, or any part of the
; tcck, will bo fold, ai will best fuitthe purchaser.
! Its term* may be known, by applying to
JAMES MOORE, juw.
IVIO has For Sale,
" u'ell calculated lor the river trad;—
The Peggy, about 30 tonsburthen,
Mulberry and Red Ced r frame, ami remarkably
Hour, of an easy draught ®f water, rigging in
'go«>d ori'rr.
'The Sally, about 30 tons, fails
well, und in complete order for the lumber bufiEcfs.
fy All perfens indebted to the laro firm f J
-Coldilttvu!i scUivin % B (j'lu~
tin ait l!J* AXfccrr, or the are earneilly
<i«qut(led co make ipeedy payxicn? to
MOORS, jjv.
august 3 J
Ship Brr !
And CowjwJfiyt Store, c
NO. 119, SouT~K UOHT STRFFT, 4
Next do .r to she Codoivi Hoaf«.
THE Subfcribcr, encouraged ny the advice of
his fritnd6, offers his service to the public
as a Ship and Insurance Broker. He propos
es to buy and fell veftels and every thing relat
ing thereto—aflift mailers of veffets and others
in entering and clearing at the Custom-House,
procuring and (hipping ireight, fettling Inlur
-1 ance ar.d all other mercantile accounts, and
have on hand the Dtceflary Blanks and Stamps.
Papers in foreign languages Iranflated, and in
formation given in gentral mercantile matters.
From a knowledge gained by long experience 1
of every branch of bulinefs he hopes to be ule- I
ful to tho<e who please to favor hiin w.th tbeir
commands. SAMUEL HMEI\T.
November 19 _ ?
~~F~GITBELFAST,
THE SH,r
loSEP H U S,
Henhv H. Kewn*dv, master,
NOiV lying at Mr. Doi/gbt/s <wbarf, in
Soutbwark. 7bis Jhip is in com'pletit order, and
■luill be reidy to take in her cargo on Monday
' jtext, and fail <wth all pojibls dijpatcb For
> freight or paJTurc apply to
jo tM* j OH jf C R'A IG ,
ms. 13, Dock-flreet.
tionj 16
~~ FOR wif^NcrroN,
*\ K Tit- CAttuL I » A»
THS SHIP
COMMERCE,
Captain Wood,
1
(I,ratt- terms, aid fail about the
j ?th inflant. Apply to the Captain on board at
Latimer's wharf, or
f Wiliings Ssf Francis,
Penn Street. <
november f6 . $
FOR SALE,
AS (he arrived from sea—She is a remarkably
faft failing veflel built of Cedar and live Oak,
and completely armed. JAMES YARD.
nov 10 d'w
For SALE or CHAR, t jiA,
THE SHIP
MOLLY, 1
.Burthen 4100 barrels of Flour,
Philadelphia built, well found
fitted, and may he ready
to recfiye a cargo in a few day—lhe is pierced
»8 gtir>»,ind mounts 12 new lix poun<ers, with
fnrall arms in proportion?
THE SHIP 1
DIANA,
Burthen t,ioo barrels of Flour,
' hiladelphia built of live oak
and it pierced for four
teen tnd mounts ten new four pounders,
with final! arras in proportion.
Jfcafe THE BRIG
AMAZON,
Burthen 1 300 barrels of Fleur,
. wcj. . New-England built, has. late!)'
bten cdmpletely fitted; and maybe ready for sea
' in a few days.
1 Far terms apply to
NICKLIN & GRIFFITH.
Who have for Sale
on boardfundry vrjfels at Marcus-Hook.,
li,ooo bushels of Liverpool fine fait
1,100 bushels of .coals
iB6 crates of queens war-e aflbrted
7 tierces of bottle;d porter
10 barrels of coleothard paint
4 do. of purple brown do.
a quantity of yell-.w ocre in ca(ks
6 barrels, powdered Venetian red paint
6 barrels mineraltilack do.
15 barrels Spanilh brown do.
3 -3'5 boxes «f pipes
89 bO dT \ HAVANA SUGARS
! 3,5001b5. prime cochineal
3 barreliNew Orleans indigo
4 puncheons Jamaica fpirtts
20 bales of fail Minvafs
379 (heetsof copper, afTorted from-48 by 24
to 60 by 48 inches
1 Two tubs raised Itill bottoms aflbrted 1
36 fix pound guas 4$ feet, B£cwt each
14 do. 4 feet, icwt arid 4lbs each
50 barrels of gun powder
6 cases Manchester cotton checks
3 trunks mullins and (hawls
14 cases muflinets,dimities and ginghams
. 18 chests coloured nankeens, n>ufliiiets,.&c.
11 trunks printed Calicoes
6 bales of whits and coloured caffimeres
1 bale of course woxrtlens
English nails aflbrted.
j <>(S«heri7. fri.&fat. tf.
1 For Sale, cr Charter.
fourteen 6 noun*
ders, coppered and firilg remarkably faft—burthen
1 about iooobarrett.'
» fOR. TERMS A PPLT TO
Wiliings & Francis.
Penn Street.
November 9 d aw
' For Sale, or Charter.
1 TUE SHIP
; JOSEP HU S,
i Kennedy, Majltr,
' NOW lyirg at Doughty''* wharf,
Burthen -bout Two ihoufand Barrels, i« in com
f p.eat ordcr H and ready to receive a cargo.
For terms npply to
JO U N CRAIG,
No. la. Dock trett.
r.ovcmbrr 14 5 .
FOR PORTSMOUTH,
Jllk W-H rt MPS'! IR C,
The faft Schooner
•' Vt- Captain OH, ',
VAL -t Chcfuuc ihtet tvhiri —will fail on
Friday next. For freight or paiTage, having ex
ceilenr «pply at Mr. WellH'n
ilore, on laid wharf, or to the matter Wboard.
For fule on hoard Jaid J chaotic: r,
30 bbls. New-England Cyder.
novemb«*r 18 * en .s c
FOR LONDON,
To return early in the Spring,
A MT A B L E,
D. C. Tulinohast, Master.
IS jxpeiled to depart about the. fi'.th of Decem
ber. F«r freight or paiTage apply to the ma&er an
board, or to
JEREMIAH WARDER,
N«. 12, North l'liird Street.
WHN HAS ON HAND,
8 by 10 Window Glass,
And a quantity of Paper Maker's Rags.
noveii.b.ifx 19 ?
For Safe,
THE SHIP
; LENNOX,
NOW lying at Penrofe's-wharf
SJiSiirfes©Blie[weeii-South cis Almond rtreets.
This Vessel has only made two Whaling
voyages, was originallyibeatherl, and tinee her
arrival in tliis port has been completely caulked
and (heathed an«w, new Masts have also heen
* p:it i'lfo her, and her comjigtelj over
"TTairtr;?, «i coufle'tiSfTtol'. >nd Kigeing are hi _
perfefl order—and it i< prerumed from her hav- ~
mg been employed in the Whaling bulir.efs and
her timbers completely filled with oil, (he will
be ao durabU as any veiTel. An inventory of- /
the (hip and her materials may be-feen at the
Coffee House, or at the house of the Subscriber, J
South-east comer of Arch-street and Sixth-flteet.
If the above vessel is niitfold at private Sale P
immediately, (he v ill be expalcd to Public Sale
tin Wednefdiy evening the 21ft instant at seven 4
o'clock, at the City Tavern in Second-llreet.
I'he Subscriber has also for sale, B
A Cargo of excellent Whale Oil L
In casts proper for exportation, being full bound s
with Iron Hoops, which is an advantage not li
common in Cargoes of Oil at t&is market.
ALSO,
A small quantity of Whale Bone.
JOSEPH BALL.
n"v 19 djt
To be Sold,
BT PUBLIC VENDUE,
On Friday next, the 2,3 d instant, at Six
o'clock in the evenirjg, at the Merchant's
Coffee House in Second street, agreeably
to inventory, a
THE BRIG (
ABIGAIL,
■flflffnjpytf'' Aa she now li« at Mr. Weft's
Wnan—Burthen abont 1400 barrels. t)
The will bcmade.knowa at the time
and place of sale.
neVember 19 Jtmw&f
60,000 lbs. Prime Coffee, h
Deliverable in Baltimore,
FOR SAD E BY
Isaac Hazlehurft & Son.
Nov. 19
REMOVAL. c
George Dobson,
J N FOR MS his friends and the-Piublic in general
that he has removed Ironvtfo. 15,SO**th i'Kif l r
Street, to No 92, South fide of ?v3arkct^ftrect,near
tie corner ol 1 hird Street, ana is how opening
a very extenfivte affortmcr, t of
DRY GOODS,
SUIT ABLE FOR THE PRESENT SE A SON,
WHICH HE HAS JUST RECEIVED,
Per t-he ships William Penn, Aniiabie, and Jafne,
from London, and per Chefapeak and l lwitms
from Liverpool, and will bo lold low for caflj,
or approved notes at a fhnrt date, viz,
London 7-4 Superfine Cloths and -
Calfimeres, fafbicnable colours
Yorkßiire 7 4 do. and do.
'Mixed and plain coatlitAs
i W.lch flannel, , '
Kerfty beav.r, forSpentew h
.Jeannets and T>bby corda t
Velvets atd velvcttcens
Vulverets and "thicifetts
7, 8, 4 4 and 11-8 cotton and linen Checks'
t 7 8 and 4 4 bed tics 1
6-4 and 7-4 bed bunts . -
London chintz and qhwtz furrtituras
Furniture cotlons
1 Do. ditriitics
Pufple and chintz (liaWls - 1
Silk do.
Cumcls-kair do.
Silk, cotton, and worllud hose
India and liritifri muflinsof dcfcrjution
Black and white
Tiffany and paper fans - ll
Hats a(Tor«c*l inimall cifet
Umbrellas '
Peelings and fattins
Laces and edgings
Ribbands 1
Sifit Modes
Superfine French eambritk !
C'ambrick tohlUiis
Do.-threads ,
Piificatard Madras Handkerthiofs,
And an elegant ajfortment of
Bruflels and Wilton Carpeting.
November 17
TO BE RENTED
UNTIL NEXT STRING,
stnd jbfr/frffioH delivered immediately.
A HANDSOME and commodious three
flory HOUSE, in Walnut-street near
Third-ftr'cet, No. 58.
It has t\Vo rooms 011 a floor, with a'ftair-way,
Kitchen and-Waih-houfe back, together with a
, convenient yard opening "*ipon Pear-flreet
and is well calculated to accommodate either a
private laiuily, or bo» ders. Tht terrts are«a
ly and will be made known upon application to
the Cafhierof ijie Sank of Pennsylvania.
t- uov T9 ' $
At nine o'clock,
On tPcdnrfJey Morning,
AT SO. 40, UfclON «-r*I»T
Between Scc.td and ThirdJlreets,
./ILL BE SOJ.DFOK CASH,
A v:\lujile anu general aflortment
of Houfebold and Kitchen Furniture.
Alfc, a valuable «ll«rflion of
BOOKS.
CONNBLtriS to. außioneers.
riov 16 dts
John Miller, junr.
Has returned to the City,
AMD IS REMOVING I&OM XO. 8, CHE4NUT,
T» tie Five Story Building, in Dock
mar
Where he has for Sale
250 Bales of Bengal Goods;
CONSISTtKC OF
Celiacs
Mafias
Mamoodies I
Ilumhuros
Calicoes
Handkerchiefs, &c. Jj*c.
The remains of a Stock of
DRY GOODS,
Conjtfiing of IVoolshs orJy,
AMONGST THI.M **E,
Cloths
Coatings
Blajik-cis
Kendal Cottons
Hats, &c.
ALSO,
100 Hhds. of Old Rwn,
Of aine flavor, 3d o 4th protjf.
m-v 10
JuJl imported in flips William Penn, A
miable and Jean,from London,
A qaantity of Cannon/;zes 4,6 & 9 lb.") with balls
Carronades, I a lbs. 3 fuila'ole.
Mufquets, Mufqwetoaos.Cutlafles and") a
Piflols, for (hips use, | (
Rifled barreled' Guns, Fowling Pieces, i 2 n*
and Horseman's fiflols, |
40c ,000 Flints, c.'iiefly for muskets, in j S
kegs. j
Regulation Light Dragoon Sabres, with Iron Scab
bards, in cases of 5® each,
Light Cavalry swt.r'ds in Cases
Sabres, Swords and CutlafTct, with plated mounting
Ironmongery and Cutlery in calks, a general as
sortment—For Sale by
Thomas ?$* Jno. Ketland,
1 Philad. OSoher 25.
ROBERT SMITH iff Co.
Have returned to the City, and are now open
ing at their Store, No 58, So. Front-Jlceet,
A large and General
ASSORTMENT GF GOODS,
Suitable to the Season,
W-hich they have jiaft received per the late
arrivals frism London, Hull, Liverpool and
Glasgow (via New-YoA) and will dispose
of on very law terms for Cafli or feort credit
TO BE LET,
A House iniFouuh-ftreet, next door to
to the Indian Queen —enquire as above.
November 6 G
Just Arrived,
In the Brig Eliza, from the Mediterranean, and
now landing at Walnut Street wharf,
Fourth proof Brandy in Pipes.
Anaffortment of valuable DRUGS,
CONSISTING OF ' !
Oplsm, Aloes, Canthirides, Camphlre, SeDna, <
Crertor Tartar, &c.
IlCences of Lemon rnd-Bergamot
Wriliilg paptr
SweetoiV in-bottles and-fiaflc.
Olives, anchovies and 1 a;»ets
Juniper icrrKs
AL S ft.— Italian lute(li(ng«
Satins
Crapes
Umbrellas
Remaining on Hand,
St. Croix Sugars,
Claret in cases
Old Madeira \Vjo > of tbe fir.ft quality.
JAMES YARD.
November j §
N O 'I l -CE.
ALL Persons indebted to the Estate of Doctor
Francis Bowes Sat**, deceased, are re
queftad to milae immediate payment—end those
having derrands againll the. said iftaie, are desired
to ptoduce the fame, July authenticated, to
Ann Sayre, 7 Administratrix.
Robert k Heyfham, Admrniflmtor.
November 15 d2w
ISRAEL PLEASANTS sTCoT
No 74, South Second (Ireet,
Have returnedfrom- the ceu/Ury ; andthave far
SALE, as vfuql, a large affertsnent df 1
DRY GOODS,
Inipofled in the last vessels from-Europe,
of articles principally suited to the profest and ar>-
(proaching season
They are determined fell off very low for
cash or short credit.
Note. All.pcrl'cne .indebted to.the late firm ot
Samuel Fltafants l!f .Sons, art di-iired to make>im
mediate payment to tke fui>fcribers.
Israel Pleafants & Co. 1
Nov. 1 d4W
Thomas iff Joshua Fisher,
No. 5, Do.CX-S.TM.EST,
Have for sale,
IM PORTED l« DIFFERENT VESSELS,
A gentral affortmcnt of
Coarse and fine Woolens,
7-0 & 4-4 Irifli Linens, Shaetings, Tickens &c.
Scarlet aad Cloth colored Cardinals
Hats in boxes df i» dozen each
China, Nankeen Dining fe:ts and cups icfaucers
Black Lutcflrings, Taffatys and Sattins
Pungem Cloths and Hiimhuras, Bine and Red
Cotton, Chappals and Pullicat Uonsalls
China a«d English Umbrellas
1".. Crowley Slillington Steel
Tin in .Boxes 1-3 x
1 Shot, Frymg Pans and Weeding Hoe*
6d, Bd, jod, lid Niils, tsV. yfe.
nthmohthS c l2-,v
The Subfciibers
Have received by the late Eurqpeaii arrival;, th*
Following Merchandize,
Shipped them principally on coi,fignm«iit, yrhirli
they offer by package to Wholesale Store Keeper*,
■ or others, oil Tery advantageous t.rmi, for rafll,
approved note*, or btlls o( exchange on Lotidoa (
Medford fs* Willis,
Mo. 78, North Front Street.
IRISH LINENS.
Printed calicoes,'furaitwres, pu;p!e and colored
DuwU
Muslins, plain, striped, checked and fancy
Balaloie, jagonqt and bank ba»dkeichi;if| '
Pine and lundry LaberdaQitry
Scotchand colored threads
Scarlet cloth cardinals
Durants and calamancoes
WorEed, cotton and'fancy hosiery
Felt, tailor wid beaver hats
Yorkfliire plains and broadcloths
Plain ar.d twilled coatings andduffill*
Caffimeref and fwanfdowas
! Stripe, point and role blankets
| White colored and Wtlfn flannel*
j Knapt Kendall cottons
Worfo-dand mchsir plushes
Pewter, afTortsdiu small caflcs
Spades, (hovels, frying pans &. ironmonger/
An itLvoic<- of Watches &
130 cillts ijajls afibrted.
nov la *
For Sale, "
60 Boxes White liavanna
M 3 do Brown do C SUGAR
48 hhtis. do do )
Which are now Landing atCbef .ut-fl rect
Wharf, frcm ou boarii thc- lii i ( ; George.
Also for Sale,
100 hhdb. ot Prime Coffee,
Old Madeira Wine of the firft quality
Carolina Indigo
Coarfic East India Sugars
; Window Glals
Bandanoe Handkerchiefs, &
A quantity of India Mullins & Chintzes,
"John Craig
iVe. 11 Dockjlreet.
nov 14 $
Imported
m THE LAST ARRIVALS,
Superfine, fine and common cloths
Swandowns
Baizes
Velvetts
V elveretts
Printed calicoes
Furniture & fancy dimities
Hair ribbiijds
Sewing silk
Brussels and Persia cat pet ts
Buttons
For sale, for eajh or credit, ly
SAMUEL MERRICK,
no. J43 Arch ftrcet.
j "° V - 'L. §tjanr
Imported,
AND FOR SALE BY
Isaac Harvey, Jun.
No. 9, Squth Water Street,
A QUANTITY OF
Surinam Cotton and Coffee.
Irifl) linens, in whole and half boxes
[ Checks
Drcgheda linen
lrilh hackjed Flax
Liverpool Salt and Coal.
also a parcel or
Men's and Women's Combs aflbrted.
Sc«t's Thread—and
, One hundred hoglheads of prime Aux Caves
MOLASSES.
11 mo - dsw
HUDSON fcf YORKE^
NO. 54, NORTH FRONT STREET,
HWE .JUiT RECEIVED,
Per the lali arrivals from Europe,
A VERY COMPLETE AMORTMENI OF
DRY GOODS,
Which they -will dispose of on reasonable terms,
AMOSJiST WHICH ARE ,
Supcrfiuc and coarse cloths, coatings,
EJaflic and fancy do.
Caflimerci, plains, duffils
Kofeaad ft ripe blankets well aflbrted in fm 'J
bales
r Furniture chintzes, cottons and dimeties
Callimancoes, cansblets, durants, moreens, a~;
Joans
j Maflin6of all'kinds
Velvets, velverets, thickfetts and fancy cords
An elegant alTortment of ribbons
Red, white and yellow flannels
Red andgreen hocking and wclfh baizes
iAn invoice cutlery and hardware
Cottonades, fltawta, printed handkerchiefs
?*° 4'4 11-8 checks
9-S & 5-4 cotton stripes
r Cotton, woffted and silk hosiery
do do Gloves
Threads, bindings, tapes, &c. &c.
' noY - 9- dißt
r To Be Let,
And .immediate pojfejfion Given,
r A Urick Mouf.
-L V with convenient back buildings, lituated
f at the north weft corner of Third and Walnut
ftretts.—For.tertos. apply to
Dr. THOMAS PARKE.
No. jo, South Fourth Street,
October 19 d[f 1
ADVERTISEMENT.
WHEREAS James CcMMtso & Co. late ol
the city of Philadelphia, merrhants, have
alitgned over all their elfeds, teal, personal and
mixod, to the lubftrribers, for the benefit of all
their creditors, who P-*ll fuhferibe the said aflian
irtent within fix months from the date hereof "
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, to aliperfons
who are indebted to the said estate, that they ar«
~ required to make immediate-payment of their res.
pective accounts, to the Assignees, at their office.
No. 6i, Dock street, in failure whereof adiont,
will be inllituted for the recovery of luch debts as
arc not discharged accordingly.
John Travis,
John Waddinrton, . _
James Taylor, '
Cornelius Comegys
a, S" st 18 mwftrDImported,
Li the Shi pi Aflive and Liberty,
from H4MBBRGH.
Ticklenburghs,
Oznabrigs,
White Platillas
Brown Silefias
Bretagnes
Hessian Rolls
Brown Rufiia Sheetings
perrnan Lindfeys,
Bed Ticks, ?sfc.
For Sale by
GEORGE PZNNOCK*
no, 103 Mkrket-ftreet.
nov 20 §
MOLASS ES,
AT AUCTION.
N THURSDAY flv jidinftant.at ra o'clock,
cm on effe Robert Waln'» Wharf, will
be fold tf r aopr:. ■ n'tea at 60 Dajn,
A cargo ofMolaffes.
FjUTMAN 53" Co. Aufiioneers.
NO T\TCT.
A i-I. Perfnns indebted to the Estate of doc
■-t\ tor Hugh Hndge, deceale ", are requested
to ivi jVe immediate payment—and those having
('• ni 'H-Js againfl the Estate aredcltred to authen
t cats i«r ! ;.rpfent them to.
MARIA HODGE, adminiflratrix.
S. 'MUEL HODGDEN; adminiflrator.
r.ov 10 $
NOTICE ~ 7
\? Persons indebted to the Estate of Wil*
■- liam Beauchamp, lately dereafed, art de
ftred to trake imraedia'e payment and those who
v ! .ve ihv cliinps aeainft said Eftatt to produce
their accounts properly attested to
SarnL Price, executor.
nov ao dim
Notice is hereby Given,
' I HAT application will bj made ai the Trea.
JL fury of tie Uri'ed Prates, for the renewal of
the following certificates of Funded Deb:, ftand
jjicr iii the name ol Robeit Whit worth, of Chelfea,
Lon lr >n. thefaid C«rtifkates having been forward
ed br the ship F.lliee, Hatvey, from London far
N?"'-York, captured by the French, and supposed
to be lo 5 .
• No-11437, 6 Per Cent Stock, dated New-
York, 18th April, 1796, f*r Hollars. 1481,47.
No. 8171 3 Per Cent, dated New-York,
l8:h April 1795. for dollars 400.
SAMUEL MILBANK.
novfmher 18 4fw
" -TO BE SOLD,
Aa elegant and commodious House,
In CUeJhut-flreet, next d'.or It the Bank
or North America.
THE lot is thirty by one hundred and seventy
eight. The iioufe has been thoroughly
repaired within a few months.—'Apply to the
Primer.
nov 19 (S
English wrought Nails.
Imported in the (hits Molly and Dana, from
LIVERPOOL.
400 Calks of Nails,
OT\'SISTING of 6d, Bd, iod, ud, and
Vvf 2od, flat points fuita.ble for the foutherß
ir.arte:—U, od, iod, ud, and2od, finedrawn
fiarps—alfo », 3, 4> Hid 6 clouts—fprigs—
ukks— fcnpper Titiil*—lheathiag nails, b?c.
FOR SALE BY,
Robert Denifon, junr.
117 Market-street.
nov 20 §
WRAPPING PAPER.
FOR SALE, VERY CHEAP,
A Quantity of printed Paper, fnitable for
* Orocers, Tobaccontfts, &c. Enquire of the
P-inter,
nov 20 4t
French Language.
G. BUFIEF,
No. 63, South Second Street,
WIL I OPTN
Kis DAY and EVENING SCHOOL,
On Wednesday, the 14th Injl.
N. B.- Private Tuition attended to as usual,
and Trar flaiions from either Language into the
other, performed with accuracy, secrecy, and
dispatch.
113 v. 10 ewtf
THE
AMERICAN REPOSITORY,
annual'register,
For 2799.
THE publication of this ufeful little work hat
been retarded, this year, beyond its usual time
ty the late melancholy vifitition. It was commit
ted co the press early enough, but by the general
tiifoerfion of the people that took place the latter
end of August and beginning of September, it was
unavoidably interrupted As feon as it was fafe
to return to th« City, and the Printer could get
I: :< hands together, the work was resumed ; and
;c is with pleasure that the Editor has now to in
s r.n his friend and the public in general, that it
-.ill he eompleated and pub lifted the firft week in
i)«oec - ber.
fcovcmbcr 20 3awiw
To be Sold,
OR EXCHANGED,
Tor property in the City, or within Thirty
miles of it,
A Valuable Plantation,
TN Tufcorora Valley, Mifflin county, containing
i!i»Ut three hundred acresy the whole capable
■ f cultivation. At present there is about 50 acres
cleared, ao of which iSa rich bottom of Meadow
Ground, enriched by a never failiug ft ream, that
fall and water enough for all the purposes of
. Country Mill. For lurcher inlormation apply at
6Z, Market flteet.
November 10 4aw 3^_
WANTED,
A Good Plain Cook,
IN A SMALL FAMILY.
>ply at >'o. 109, .Spruce ftrtet, near Fifth Preet.
ncvemher 20
Dobbin & R.oberts,
T AT LO RS,
) Er.PiiCTFULLY inform theirCuflomer*, and
' s the Fubiic in general, that they have rcmo
v,( 110 m No. ; 14, C-hcfuut Street, to . .
N r o. 50, South Fourth Street j
re or"ter« in their line will bi tha&klully re
/ •.: and dil'g ently attendii to.
.... .i-übcr / J
Foitj' Dollars Reward
j Ff>* \Tf R FHENDIJG
i A GENTLEMAN NEGRO,
I T?Y name Geougs or Gkorge Pahke*, thei
|X) proj erty of the fubfcri: - er, who !>»« thought
j proper on the night of the inft. 'o elope from
his with, ut at-y provocation or juit cause ;
he was formerly the priiperty of Beckwith Butler,
efq, and lived a confiderahle time with
Pottender,whokept tavern in Frederickbtirg.having
seen much company and travelled with several
geatlemea through different parts of this (late, he
ismnch known. It is therefore he
| will for feme of the northern cities or towns
, as he hi# discovered an averlion toplantation work,
j though he may perhaps have eroded the ridge
where he has a brother belonging to major Butler.
This follow is about fivt feet seven inches high,
well proportioned and walks a&ive and brisk, his
countenance it open and egreeai'e enough when
in good humour ; he ean hardly he ftirpaft in
Ihrewdnefs, and is a very c "pu>ie waiting-man,
house servant, barber, &c To describe his dfefj
would be useless.as he possessed a variety of clothes,
thrygh when dreiTed lately, he wore a green coat
bound with white ferreting and spotted jacket and
reeches. Whoever br him home or secures
n goal in this or any other date the said Have, so
that I may get him again, lhall have the above re
ward. ~ ALEXANDER VASS.
Falmouth OtS. 23, 1798.
N. B.—Mailers ot Vc ffiels and Stage Drivers
are requested to beware of fuflering laid fellow to
impofeon them by affixing his escape. A. V.
November 3 w&f.4w
Tea" Warehouse,
No 'll, South Side of Market- flreet, bet'vjsen
Third and Fourtb-Jlrects.
SARAH EATON,
RESPEC I FULLY iuforms her friends and the
public, that (he hji removed fronj no 39,
south Front street, to Market street, where her
friends and the public lmy depend on being sup
plied with all kinds of TEAS of the firft qualities
at moderate prices.
- fe w.fr.6t
Jamaica & Poj t-au-Prince Entitled
Sugars > to draw
Madeira Wines j back
New-England Rum
Ground Ginger, and
Tanner's Oil,
FOR SALE BY
Wharton Lewis,
no. 115 south Front Oreet.
Nov. 14 as tawtf
ALL PERSONS,
HAVING claim* againfl the. Estats of
SUSANh AH LOCKrER, deceased, are
requested t • present their refpeflive accounts to
NATHAN A. SMITH, f . a .
I r Aa,n s
JOHN DORSET, j Jixtculor '-
A LEASE OF THE HOUSE
Lately occupied bv Sufunnab Lockyer, together
-with THE STOCK OF GOODS,
Are to be disposed of Time will be given foi ■
the litter on un-exceptiouable feeurity.
nov 9 3aw6w
John J. Parry,
CLOCK 53* WATCHMAKER,
HAS again opened at his usual Stand, No. 38,
South Second street —inhere he has for Sale,
A VAKIITV Ot
Excellent Gold b* Silver Watches,
AND A FEW
Eight Day Cclpcks,
Which will be warranted to give fatisfhSion.
An assortment of
Gold, Steel and Gilt chains, Seals and Keys.
All kinds of Clock and Watch work done with
particular attention as heretofore.
gr An Appren'ice wanted.
November I x m.w&fjw.
Ibe Creditors of the Sub/criber
ARE HEREBY NOTIFIED,
THAT he has applied to the Court of Com
mon Pleas of Montgomery county for the
benefit of the aft of AflemWly, palled the 4th
day of April last, entitled " an aft providing
that the person of a debtor (hall not be liable to
imprisonment for debt after delivering up his
estate for the benefit of his creditors, unless he
hath been guilty of fraud or embezzlement"
and the judges of the said court have appointed
Monday the tenth day of December next at ten
o'clock in the forenoon at Norriftown in the
county aforefiid for a hearing of him and his
creditors. GEORGE HIRST,
nov 17 tawl'at tDB
Smith & Rodman,
No. 49, South Front street,
Haveyujt received per the William Penn, and
Jawe, from London, Diana and Thoma«
from Lifutrooi, snd Kingston,
from Hon,
A LARGE C 3 GENERAL ASSORTMENT OF
DRY GOODS,
AMONG WHICH ARE
Plain, twill'd and (Iriped Crapes
Coatings Plain&ftriped Wildberei
Pine white and red Weill) Worded, Yarn ii Cotton
Flannels Hole
Do. yellow and scarlet do. en . '"d Boys Woollen
Superfine and low priced Mittens
5-4, 6-4, 7-4, cloths of 7'® bleach d Ir.ll. Dow
all colors ' 1 n. 1 •
Plain, and Halfthicks b [<? wn '"to L '°~
Forest and Hunter Cloths 9 ?^ h ' ,e '" d brown Ir "
Green awl Red Drapery F|axen £ ozna .
Ba,ze , . J burgh in bales
Do. 5-4, 6-4, and 7-4, do Drogheda (3 Irith Silefias
Red & green B ickrng do. ~8 and yard-wide lrilh
Swanfdowns t3" Toilanett? Linens
Rose, Point and Duffill Printed Callicoei&Chin-
Blankets tzes
Superfine London Caffi- Printed Linen and bor
meresof thenewedand der'd Handkerchiefs
moll fafhionable colors Cottonic CallicoeChecks
Low priced Yorkfltire do. Thread Eogings6# Laces
Plain and striped Calli- N,f o ,s Be. v er Gloves
mancoes '* ma " ca cs
Joan Spinnings&Durant. Ho"'nd Tape. « Bobbini
Ratt.netts & Shalloon. I h, f fc " " d f Cord " ro V s
Cam bleu, fc-
Cloaks Bllck I[)d oliye Cotton .
Bombazetts and Black a( j^g
With a variety of other Articles qn hand, fo r
sale on the moll 1 eafenable terms for cash
or the usual credit.
Nov 6 t«,th&fa,tf
05- THE OFFICE
OF the Committee appointed to su
perintend the building of the Frigate, is
again opened at No. 95, South Front
Street, where attendance will be given
to receive the fubferiptions of thole gen
tleman who hare notyet made payments,
november 12. dtf
Xijc oa?me.
■ v * PHILADELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER *l.
OBSERVATIONS
On Lavater" s Remonstrance to the
Executive Directory.
THE lamentable cries of Lavater to the
great nation,' have excited nothing in my
mind bjt ridicule and contempt—nothing
of pit)'—notbingof commiseration—nothing
of friendfliip or good wishes. O Lavater,
you have greatly mistaken the phyfiogn-my
of the great nation, if you can believe that
either the pompous and absurd flattery, the
pitiful moan, or the ineffedtual threats of a
degraded Swiss vaffal —degraded by his own
consent, by his owa agent y—can move their
inexorable purpose of universal domination
and -rapine. Doll thou look for redress
from their justice * Follow with thine eyes,
as far an thine eyes can carry thee, the
baundlefs course of blood and devaliation
which they have passed over in a few years,
in a mite of time, and you may then indeed,
exclaim, with feelings of and not
in the vile'humiliation of a slave's flattery,
" What ether nation, ancient or modern, has
perfermed the actions which it has done ?"
But you must hope for nothing for poor
Zuiich from its justice. Do you hope for
a rettoration of your immolated liberty, and
plundered property, from the pity of the
great nation. Take the whole range of the
last eight years—take all the vast and innu
merab'e scenes, both at home and abroad, 1
in which they have been engaged, and point
me a single instance where the cries of hu
manity have arretted the hand of blood, or
the tear of pity has glistened in the eye of
a Frenchman. No—they have thrown off
the authority of Heaven ; they have broken
down cxc*)- obligation of tfiiualfcy j tbsy
have extinguished every chaTafteriftic of
humanity, every tender attachment between
Man and man; —they conquer to plun
der and enslave ; and the conquered and
enjlavel cry for mercy in vain. Meet the
robber at the thre(hold, and resolutely de
fend the entrance of your dwelling. If you
fly before him, or if, deluded by his per
fidious offers of frivndfhip and benefits, you
open your arms to welcome him, you are
indeed loft. Is it not incredible that in the
year 1798 any man (hould make an appeal
to the juflicc and pity of France. Where
have you been Lavater ? Are you " ig
norant of its deeds," or have you loft the
faculty of horror ? Do their awful crimes
pass in long fncceffiou before you without
an impreffian ? If thou could'ft applaud,
while they sacked the world and opened
riven of innocent blood, learn at least to
think, to reason, to know them from the
fate of Switzerland. But the desolation of
a neighbouring canton, of a filler state, was
too remote to open thine eyes, to expose
the bloody assassin, the insatiate robber.
Look then to Zurich, to thine owo Zurich,
and how canst thou be deceived, or hope
for justice or mercy from But you
would sooth them with thy flattery. Believe
me they will laugh you to scorn. The
flattery of a conquered, voluntary slave, is
dull, vapid, vile and ridiculous. They are
the " great nation, ~the matchless nation."
Alas ! poor Zurich has found them match
less indeed in perfidy, cruelty aud villainy.
You fay, " many of the most able and en
lightened heads admire the atchievements of
this people, considered as philosophers, poli
ticians and heroes." As philosophers, they
have filled the world with vice, discord aid
unexampled misery ; as^politicians, they have
governed by falfehood, perfidy and force, 1
and have laid the certain foundation of ages
of discord, bloodshed and wretchedness for .
their country ;• as heroes, they have murdered t
weakness aud innocence, the infant and the
aged, the mother and her babe. You assert
another sentiment, for which I almost de- I
fpife you—Lavater fpe;.ks not then ; it 1
is the conquered slave of France,—the I
wretched dupe of Republican intrigues. 1
—You fay that France " maybejuftly call
ed the great nation, fjr it has produced the I
greatest, and I -wills ill hope the mtfl benefi- ;
cialrefults ever produced by man, in any pe- I
riod of time !" This sentiment can need no
comment, no contradiftion—a(k Italy--a(k t
Switzerland—alk Zurich, what are the be- <
neficial results of the atchievements of this t
great'nation—Shew me the country oa earth, <
(hew me the man on earth, to whom their I
revolution, their conquests, their principles
or their friendfhip have yet been or are like
ly to he beneficial —Slavery, ruin and defola- c
tion are the certain consequences of all and
each of them—While the relentless rapaci- \
ty of France excludes you from all hope of *
pity from her, you give us a faft that will t
make the world deaf to your cries; even i
(hould misery accumulate tenfold upon you f
—When the true heroes of your country, (
her noble and magr.aaimous defenders, (pa- ]
trioti of immortal glory receive this weak ]
tribute from a free American !) were strug
gling against the hosts of France and the
dastard degeneracy of corrupted Switzer
land, wer« contending in a deadly exertion <
against the arm of the murderer and the trea
son of their brethren ; what did Zurich ?
" supplied the batbjrians with cannon and am
munition r For this deed (he is blasted of
Heaven and detested by man—Parricide !
talk not of atonement. The ghosts of your
flaugbtered brethren call aloud for vengeance
—the groans of your enslaved country (hall
ever disturb you. Let Zurich be swept
from among nations—let her become deso
late as a wilderness—let her habitations be
come lonely rocks, and her waters be turn
ed to blood, and let it be remembered that
(lie aided the destroyers of Berne, and (he
will find no commiseration from man. Let
every American read and seriously refleft
ou this impsrtant fadt. Let them learn
from it that France divides to destroy ; and
j that those who adhere to her are involved
in a common ruin wijh those that oppofe—
no pramifes bind tier faith, 110 fervics hold
her friendfhip. To feive France, Zurich
murdered her brethren: Zurich struck a
dagger to her own heart-.-yet Zurich is en
fiaved, plundered and destroyed. France
promises that no French troops (hculd enter
Zurich, that not afou (hould be demanded
of her. " But the v«ry reverse happened"
—three millions of livres are exa&ed, and
troops are marched in withojut the least pre
vious application to exhaust the country.
Americans ! be not deceived, be not divi*
ved by the black perfidy of French promi
ses. Let us stand ii m!y together, man to
man, brother to brother. If we then fall
it will bewfth glory, and we (hall not, like
Zurich, be funk in infajjiv and humiliation,
we shall not like her Pe followed with the
curses and contempt of the human race.
AN AMERICAN.
November 20.
I"he following proclamation:Jland under the
Dublin head of the 19 th Sept. Each is
decoratad by an Irilh Harp, surmounted by
a Cap of Liberty, and bears this motto,
Erin go bragli. The Irilh editor fays,
" IVe insert them Jor the amtffement of our
readers."
LIBERTY or DEATH !
Northern Army of Avengers.
" Head quarters, the First Year of
Irifli Liberty;
" United Irishmen,
" The soldiers of the Great Nation have
landed on your coast, well fopplied with
arms and ammunition of all with ar
-1 tillery worked by men, who have spread ter
ror amongst the ranks of the bed troops in
Europe, headed by French officers ; they
come to break your fetters and restore you
to the blessings of Liberty.
" James Napper Tandy is at their head.
He has sworn to lead them on to victory or
- to die. Brave Iriihmen, the friends of li
berty have left their native foil to assist you
in re-conquering your rights". "They will
brave all dangers and glory at the sublime
idea of cementing yosr happiuefs with their
blood.
French blood shall not flow in vain :
To arms—Free-men to arms : the trumpet
calls—let not your friendsbe butchered unas
sisted ; if they are doomed to fall in this glo
rious struggle, let thsir death be ufeful to
our cause, and their bodies serve as footfteps
to the temple of Irish Liberty.
General Rey.
" In the name of the French
Officers and Soldiers now on
the soaft of Ireland."
General J. N. Tandy, to. his Countrymen.
" United Iriihmen,
" What do I hear ! the British Govern
ment have dared to speak of coßceliions!
Would you accept of them ?
" Can you think of entering into a treaty
with a Britilh Minister? A Minister too,
who has left you to the mercy of English
soldiery, who has laid your cities waste, and
massacred inhumanly your best citizens ....
A Miniller,the bane of society, & the scourge
of. mankind .. . behold, Iriihmen .. •. he
holds in his hand the oliveof peaee ; be aware
his other hand lies concealed armed with a
poinard. No, no ... . you shall
not be the dupes of his base intrigues. Una
ble to fubdne your courage he attempts to
subdue you, left his efforts be vain.
" Horrid crimes have been perpetrated in
your country . . Your friends have fallen a
facrifice to their devotion for your cause.
Their shadows hover round you and call a
i, loud for vengeance*
" It is your duty to avenge their death.
It is your duty to strike on their blood-ce
mented thrones the murderers of your friends
•' Listen to no proposals, Irishmen : wage
a war of extermination against oppreflars—
the war of liberty shall triumph ?
«j. n.. Tandy."
Such is the authentic d'etail of a.circum
ftancc which was yesterday magnified into a
new invafian by 25,000 men, landed at Kil
lebegs, and established in full possession of
the county Donegal.
Black well, who accompanied Tandy io
his expedition, is a person who some time
ago was compelled to fly the county of Clare
for seditious pradtices.
When Napper and his friends found that
the good people of Rutland were not formed
of revolutionary fluff, and thought it prudent
to re-embark, they left with the post-master
of the town a certificate of which the fol-'
lowing is a copy
" Rutland Island, 30 th Frudidor.
" Having landed from on board the Ana
creon, a republican vessel from the coad of
France, on Rutland I (land, and being in
want, for the time, of accommodations, wa
were under the necessity of putting the Ci
toyen , p iftmafter of that town or
island, under requisition, a-)d preventing him
from fending off his packets ; and at the
fame time dilcharged every obligation, and
paid for whatever we took from the said
place.
TANDY. Gen. of Brigade and
commander of the expedition.
[Here follow the fignatuies of fix French
officers.]
For Sale,at theikores of the Sub
scribers, on Walnut street Wharf,
195 caflcs of nailt afiorted
10 bales of fail canvafe, from No. 1 to 8
J 3 talks yellow ochre
1 J tierces bottled porter, 6-to 14 doz. each
London particular ) . ....
India market 5 Madeira W.nes
Tcneriffe do. in pro
OLI Port do. in hhds.
Empty Cl«ret bottles
6 cases of Ginghams, Dimities, MuflineN icc.
afibrted for the Weft-India market
4. io, and 9 inch cablesand io coils of cordare
Writing futes, ir.k stands prcfTes
*0 puncheons Jamaica rum
I bale Teaming twiue
160 bundle* (heading paper
NickUn Is' Griffith.
I a P nl 1 tuibJcf-tf
%ut jforetgn j|setos.
TVRTHER EXTR.4CTS FROM ENGLISH fJFSiS.
PRIVATE LETTERS. •
" Dublin, Sept. 29.
m! J5r e -,n C °- ntof / hedefcatof th * Re
bels at Killala is confirmed.
" At an early period I told you that Mr.
Reynolds was to be rewarded for his infor
mation, and evidential service,, against th*
Executive of the Irish Union, wi,h the ap
point men t of Governor of the Bahama ft.
lands ; and I have now received further as
surance of this fad from very refpedable
au honty I l.ave also to inform you, that
Mr. K. has not only renounced, as you al.
ready know, his political errors ; he has
also adjulird those of religion, and last Sun
day le unight read hrs recantation of the doc
trines ofPopery, at the Asylum Chapel in
Leefon-ftreet.
«'• When rogues fall out, honest men come
by their own. If this maxim appli s as
well among politicians as anions thieves,
some benefit may result to the public, fruni
a falling out that has taken place between
the proprietors of the Dublin Journal and
their late Diaator ! The cause was this, a
certain corps were prefenttd some days back
with a Hand colours by a lady, who accom
panied them with an address suited to the
occasion ! This was givtn to the Dublin
Journal for infertior, a d, (trange to tei),
1 cfufed a place in thofc columns which have,
under the present divots „f that print,'
ever been devoted to the purposes of politil
ca! irritation and division. But incredible
as it may seem. fnch was the fad xhe
Editor, who isSccreiary to a kind of Com
mittee of Orange Matters, or, if I ma y f 0
term it, to the Orange Directory 01 the
Irilh disunion, endeavours to excu'e himfclf
by faying that he has been obliged to ad in
this cafe conformably to orders received from
a cer-uia- high official quarter, and which
went to prohibit the insertion of any thing
of the Orange call—but all in vain. The
great man is not to be appeased ; and his
high fpint can ill brook to have his " wav
prescribed in Venice." This, following the
defeat of the Wide-street job, looks well
for Ireland.
" Hie plunder and depredation exped
ed to arifeout of the present disordered state
of this illand, is every day more daringly
manifefted. Last night a banditti of a do
zen or twenty men brgke into Alderman
Truelock's country-house, within about a
mile of the city, and on the Rock road the
rnoft populous avenue, and robbed it of cafli
&c. to a considerable amount. The fecuri'
ty of perlons and property, I am sorry to
fay, promises to be very precarious through
out the ensuing winter. f
" I have nothing further to add, than
that Tone has not been executed this day,
but is expefled to be hanged tomorrow."
TONE's DEFENCE.
September 14,
This day Mr. Tone proceeded in his de
fence. He called as a witness his father,
Peter Tone : the questions which he wilhed
to alk him were written on a flip of paper,
and piefented to the Judge Advocate, who
examined the witness from it.
yau knoow the prisoner ? and have
you had any, and what intercoufe with him.
—A. 1 am his father ; I reared him, and
have had that intercourse with him which
generally subsists between father and fan.
How old is the prisoner ?—A. About
twenty seven years old.
Did the prisoner at any time leave
his country to go to any other, and at what
time. A. He left this country about lis
years iince, in to to America.
• Why did he leave Ireland ?_A.
failure in his circumftancesmade him leave it.
Did you know the habits in which
the pi ifonei lived, previous to his going a
broad ? A. I did ; and knew him to lfave
been sober, anj attentive to his business, un
til business went wrong with him.
What was his business ?—A. He was
engaged in the cotton manufaaory.
Was a man that at all interested
himfelf in politics ?—A. Not to my know
ledge ; I knew him rather to attend to his
business.
you know him at any time to be
long to any political foriety ?—A. Never;
nor Jo I believe he ever knew any thing a
bout them. Had he belonged to any s uc h'
fcciety, from my intercouife with him, I
rauft have known it.
Mr. Tone called no other witness. He
proceeded to read his defence, which was
nearly as follows : '
Mr. Prefidcnt, and my lord* and gen
tlemen of the court martial—Fully relying
upon the validity of the obje&ions to the
competency of this court to trv mt in the
present cafr, and expefling, from the hor.or
and humanity of the court, that they will
not only allow to these objedions their fall
weight, but that they will also take into their
aouuderation whatever favorable circtimftan
ces may be conneded with my Unfortunate
situation : I proceed not so much to urge a
defence, as to give you a plain and candid
account of the whol.- courfc of my condufl,
before I do so, however, I must cbferve to
the court, that when I objeded on Monday
aft to their competency, I did not mean to
ay that they were a court nnbiown to the
law ; I acknowledge that it is 2 conftitutiot -
al court, and recogmV.ed by the common
law of the land ; but I did mean to infill
that it is authorised to .d«»ly in certain ca
' and at ccrtaln times, and that it is in
competent to ad, unit fs at those times, and
in those cases. I have already admitted that
lam an Irishman. Unfrcccfsful Tn my en
deavors to obtain an e!labli(Wnt in my t.a
ttve country, I was obliged, at an early time
of l.fe to quit Ireland, and go to America.
This ncceffity | rcfe f rom cUcatu ßw*
v v. nich 1 was unable to for?fec or to remedy ;--
It arose (imply from my failure in bliSnefs,
and was totallv unc»»ne&cd with any polit
ical co You have heard from
the witness against me, that, previous to my
going iu America, I was in France. It is
true that I did go to France ; bat at that
time the war between France and these
eoßritritHi had not commenced ; and as you
Lave l.tard from the witnef?, 1 was arretted
in France as a spy, and confined for nine
months Had I been a polical agitator, j
did I entertain designs against my country, |
or was I accredited by any discontented par
ty, it is impossible to suppose that I ftiould
have b-en tUus treated, at a time when it is
well known France was but too eager to ex
cite and to receive persons of that descrip
tion. Fom France I at length escaped
and arrived in America ; from
I had resided tSere for some time. I was in
duced to vilit Hamburgh, where I had a
fitter. At Hamburgh I remained un
til I became weary of being a burden
to those whom I would rather have
wiflied to affilt. I quitted it; and will it be
imputed to me as a crime, that with pover
ty flaring me in the face, and a c mpetence
folic!ting my acceptance, I accepted that
compete ce, and did take a commiflion i/
the Frcech service ? I became a foidier ;
and, ir ohedie- ce to my orders, embarked
at l;i R 'Ciiciie with the army which landed
j- Ireland. But though I embarked with
that army, I most solemnly declare I was
not only not consulted, but not even appri
sed of its object. I was too obfeure to be
afktd for my advice, though my
of both languages induced them to fvcure
my co opeiation. When in Ireland, I ap
peal even to the witneis against me whether
I officioufly in the fervicc,'or wheiher
I d-d more than it was neceflfiry I (hnuld do
to avoid disgrace and death ? I appeal io
liini, whether I affiled in depredation, plan
ned an attack, or appeared in any way cor
dially and a&ively to promote the object of
the expedition ? Though I afl» d fr ,m ne
otffity a3 an officer, it appears from the
evidence that I was decidedly adverfc to the .
Reb Is ; as soon as possible I made my ef
capc irom thern, affnmed the appearance of
a peasant, while I was in fcarch of a Ms
giltrate to whom I mi;;'nt surrender. When
tak;ii, Ici nfeffid my name and my litua
tion, and used no artifice to conceal the
truth—a circumflance which alor-e m,iv tend
to procure me relief, when I fay that I had
fled trom the Rebel-;, because I would not
join in their cause, and was seeking an op
portunity of giving my felf up to a Mag'f
trate. You have now the whole of nay un
fortunate (lory : born to no inheritance, re
duced in my circumstances, fend deltitute of
support, I left my country and entered into
the service of France. This is my only
crime, t am no fomentor of sedition ; I am
no conspirator against the state. As a foi
dier, I was ordered upon service, and I 1!
obeyed ; and in that service confined myfelf
flriftly to the inevitable duty of the station
which I filled. It this (hall not amount to
a legal defc ee, I hope it will at lead wipe
obloquy from my name, and foften the !
har(hntfs of piivatc judgment, if it (kali fail
to mitigate the severity of a legal fentenre." j
Mr. Tone, having given in this defence,
"begged it might be transmitted with the j
other proceedings of the trial. In prsfent- i
ing to the Judge Advocate, he said, hit.!
wilh was to prove to the court that he was i
no way conneAed, nor ever was, with the
Society of United Irilhmen ; and that he
fled from the Rebels to avoid engaging in
their wicked proceedings The court was
then cleared of strangers. *■
September 25.
" H dt, it appears by the Jateft accounts,
is moving with a large body up towards
Wexford. The dfiring of this m'arander is
beyond example. He on Sunday la(l sent
a letter iutj th- town of Arklow, to inform
the inhabitant' he wou'd speedily be among
them ; and that he would not spare a single
Orangeman in the town.
" A party of the king's county militia '
were yclterday ovn-taken at the 131 ac k-r ck, !
on their route from Witklow, where they '
hav been alotiij time qmrtered, by two of
Holt's em flaries, who fat drinking w |ih
them till tour this morning, and endeavoring
to induce them to break their oath of alle
gianc-, by joining their brother soldiers in ,
Holt's enmp. Mr. Jullice BeSive, who
resides there, having received timely infor
mation on the fubjea, had them both ap- 1
prehended, and they were this morning ]
brought up to town under a trilitary escort, '
atd lodged in Kilmainham gaol ]
" Government it is said, have this day
received informatiolT from Cork of the ap- 1
pearance of a French fleet off the coast " ,
September 26. ;
"T he pod-boy who drives the Wcklow '
mail, arrived in town at fix this morninjr,
With his cart empty, having met 011 hia way
a body of about 50 Rebels near Newry
bridge: Ays, they were all weii armed,
mod of them havin? mulkets, which he de
iciibes as qiiite bright, and appearing as if 1
they belonged to the army. Mod of the
men wore uniforms. On their dopping him, i
they bid him prepare' for death : h-.° ther!
tlirew himfelf on his knees, and continued '
praying for half „ n hour, whiltt they were
fecw.iig the letters, «cc. which, some of
them obr-ryed, would be 3 great acquisition
to Mr. Holt, in conveying him intelligence
of the designs of the enemy. After they
had plundered t e cart, one of them pro
posed burning it, which the reft did not seem
wiilmg to eonfent to. They then permit
ted the boy to preceed to u>wn, without do
ing him any injury.
" 1 his day ge*. Lake, accompanied by 1
Colonel Meade arrived ia town from Wick
low,
" Military operations have at length com
menced against the rebels in the province of
Connauijl.t. Ati engagement had taken
p ace with the Rebels at Grange, near Sli
g»), wherein, it is said, near one hundred
acd fifty of thife deluded men were.cut off. '
, On Sunday la", tu.> regiments of militia,
• a party ps the Fn/.:r feitcib'ea, the Calllebar
n and tlieTyrawly yeomanry, marched from
y Caftlebar to attack the rebel*, who have yet
a pofleffion of Kill 'la, Weftport, Newport,
t &c. and are in very sreat numbers through
e the mountainous pare of that country. The
j latter eorp afted as guides on the occasion.
d A reoort was prevalent this evening, thai
e this armv had defeated the rebels, and rr
■, | covered pofleffion of those towns They
r , I had 16 miles of the country ta march before
•- they entertained hopes of coming up with
d them. /
is " Nine o'clock. I have iuft now learnt j
that the rebels at K llala have fuffered a to
-- tal defeat from gen. Trench, who commands
I in place of gen Hutchi Ton ; several thou
r sands are reported to have been p<K,to the •
fwordj no qjarler was given, except to
a foifie of their leaders, who are reC rved for
- a publ'C examination. Killala, Ballini, &c.
1 &■" have been taken pofleffion of by the
e King's troop». Several Frenchmen were
: taken, and the Bishop of Killala happily
- refcrted th hands of the rebels; his
: life, it is said, w: s spared by the inteiference
t of a French officer. Such is the report
( this evening, which i> generally spoken of,
; a d generally spoken of, and generally cre-
I dited iu all circles "
WATERFORD, September 28.
i Lafl night federal exprflfes arrived here
. from the county of Kilkenny, and ma y
; were dispatched from, hence to the t.eigh
: homing petitions f the army The South
: Devon and two ieces of artillery marched
this morning for Kno£t >pher, in the county ,
r of Kilkeri y, within fourteen mile of t is :
r General Johnfton himfelf toqk the command
> nf the troops. These some days past bodies
> of infurgentg have been disarming the people
- in the above country ; but lafl ni 'ht a body
• of them, well mounted and armed, entered
f the village of and disarmed
the yconjjnry (not in a colle&ive body) tore
f their uniforms, an<JUrrfre(hfd_turifcK ■
; &c._wlren they
- departure of the South Devon, the drums 1
f beat to arms, and the yeoman attended and
. took the guard of the city. The graated
1 excefles continue to be committed in the ,
county of Wexford : the loyal inhabitants 1
: are flying to the towns, and fay that they 1
1 would consider their lives, &c. much fafer,
1 were the country in a state of open rebellion
t in place of the predatory warfare which at J
. present exifls.
Remirhable ajfedion in a Dog. 1
At the late battle of Ballynahinch, one I
f 1 of the unfortunate insurgents who fell in the '
3 engagement was followed by his dog. The '
t faithful animal for three days lay across his '
1 matter's bosom, untii buried ; and then for ,
- many weeks constantly attended his grave, 1
[ j only at intervals when hunger forced him in- i
f to town—When his remarkable sagacity i
1 being observed, a person took him, and by [
j care and attention he feeais to forget his un- '
1 happy matter. j
: | [ The above article is from a villainous t
1 jacobin print, called the Star, the mere echo. «
', of the Morning Chronicle. It is a striking j
, specimen of the vile arts prafkifed by the par- t
s tifans of France to excite to infurre<3ion,
•: by appealing to their compassion, in behalf
i, : of those •' unfortunate" villains, who are |
8 ; dialy perpetrating the most horrid murders.} ,
B
; Dmnefttc -3lrticfe& ;
PORTSMOUTH, November 10. '
- 1
FEDERALISM of MAINE. '
Hon. GEO. Thatcher, thFMan ofthepeople! <
Such is the Federalism of Maine, that not- \
withllanding the secret attempts, the base (
deceptions, and the low-cunning of the -uile t
Jacobins, we are warranted in aflertirg that '
the Hon. Go'. THATCHER is reeled
ed Federal Representative by a very hand- 1
some majority. The votes flood as follows, \
i» the towns as marked beneath.
Kittery, 40 for G. Thatcher V 1
30 for Jof. Tucker, J Uth federail n j
Berwick, 77 for Thatcher. \
3 for Fairfield the jacobin. ;
York, 56 for Thatcher.
20 for Fairfield.
Wells, Unanimous for Thatcher. 1
I-abannn, ditto 00
Biddeford, do do.
Pepperalborough r do do. ,
The fettled, determined Federalism of the | '
People, c rtainly bids defiance so all French- j 1
men and French hirelings. With an ADAMS
and a WASHINGTON at our head, What [
have we (under Providence) to star !
RUFLA- D, November 12. r
Legi/lature of Vermont.
A concurrent resolution has patted the e
Legislature of this Hate, the 23d OA. requi- ,
lii g the Senators and Reprefcntatives in this £
: ate to use their bed endeavors, that Coi- '
grefs propefe to the of the fe- '
veral hates, the following amendment lo th- |
constitution ot the Un ted States, viz— 1
" No person flaall be eligible as President or {
V.cePrefident of the United States, nor,'
(hall any person be a Senator or Reprefenta- 1
tive in the Congress cf.th* .United States '
except a natural born citizen, or Uriels he ' '
(hall have been a resident in «the United 1
States, at the time of the declarati'n of in- I
dependence and (hall have continued to re- '
fide within the fame, or be-rmployed in its I
ferv.ee from that period to the time of his 1
election." I
Ihe yeas and nayii t eing taken, there !
were 152 yeas, and 5 npys, •
WES i FIELD, November 9. * !
To the Printers of the Impartial Herald | !
Last Monday we met according to ap- j (
pomtme-t for the purpose ofchocfing c'
Representative for the next Congress, a:,d j i
, with great we inform the public 1
r that our nobie and patriotic Shepard, who i
1 in the hour of danger, has always Hepped :
t forward io defence of our Government 8c 1
, happy Constitution, had all the votes except 1
1 two—so you fee that Federalism reigns tri
: umphant here. 1
A Voter. (
1
Xlje [
PHILADE LPH IA ,
; WEDNESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER aj. '
'
# * # The EaQern Mail arrived at a i
: very late hour, but brihgs ncthing new. <
THE man who doubts the organization of a 1
party in thia country, to overthrew its confti- r
tution and government, and to new model both -
with the affiftanee of France, mu!lbeacrea- e
twre of the doubtful gender, to fay the best of t
him:—but he that fees the danger clearly, and
1 is not rea'ly to oppose it with all his force, pof
fefTes less animation of patriotism than is eonlil
trnt the charadterof a good citizen. If F
we refleil on the general fame of the French a
. Defp ts for au£livity, am(>ition and perfidy ; if
we cail into review their eondvnil tewards the
government and people rff this country, as j
well as towards all others ; and especially, if
we recolledt their impudent threats of humbling
ns to their wili, by the means of ipternal trai
tors, we mrjl think it neceflary to watch this V
vile class with vigilance, and to oppose e jery, o
suspicious attem vt oftheirs with decjfion and vi- J
gor. lam far from thinking tV,at the dangers, 0
which tkr.u en this infant empire, are confined j
to the pref nt day, although they now appear .
more obvious : No! the fame reitlefs ambition
the fame want of good faith, that have always J
been the charaflei iftic features of the French J
, cabinet, will continue todiftii'b our rrp 'fe, and
to exacerbate parties among us, fq long as there
isa rivalry between her and Great Britain ; —or ft
until there is an infuperabie barrier oppol'ed to
her profligate schemes. _
But to cftmhat this hydra the ordi iary powers
_ of gnvi-Bomepr ice h.trdly fifScicnf. without
tcrme extraordinary aid from the loiirTTTr and n
! tuous part of the community. There are many
things tkat (.ugiit to be done,' for which there is
no law provided, or funds exiling, which are
necessary to secure the general fafety against so
dangerous a foe. Few men are so profligate as
to plot against their eo'untrv, without some mo- "
tive of puo he or private advantage j and there g
are very few indeed, who can promise themfelvts
any real profit or gratification from a convulCon
or revolution in the State. But if this number, t ,
however small, are men of talents, and become f,
the obedient engines of the enemy, they are
fufficient to delude, inflame, and mislead a host c
of unfufpedling ignorunt men. she firft, there- v
fore, ought to be closely watched ; their secret r
caballings deteaed and exposed ; and the last to d
be undeceived, and, if it is pollible, to be re- a
claimed.
This will be laying the axe to the root of the
tree. Against an uaired people the French will r
never attempt any thing. Their government is
a " Committee of Uuiverfal Infurre&ion" ; it a
is by treason they work ; and the man who will ri
not unite with his own government and its
friends, to oppose so dangerous an eueoay, is a
traitor, and ought to be immediately crulhed ;
for if there ever was any truth in the axiom,
that "he that is not for us, is against u,," it a
exists at this day. It is fafer to cut off a gan- ti
grened member, than to endauger th# life of f,
the body, by its continuance. t |
Unite or Die, was the motto of the revo
lution war. We remember its powerful effect B
at th at period, and it will certainly be good po- G
liey to bring it into operation at theprefent crisis, a
when we have ten thousand times more at flake, c:
We were then contending against a parent and lc
brethren, frora whom we had reafor, to expefl t i
moderate terms, if their superior ftrcngth had
prevailed against us. The abjedl subjugation of
the colonies was never contemplated, nor would ?
it have been tolerated, even in England. But c
we have now to war agair.ft a crue! and rapa- «
cious enemy, opposed to us by every principle w
that is inimical and repu'five ; barbarians that p
contemplate not only tire total annihilation of „
civil liberty, but the proftra ion of our sacred ~
altars, the renunciation of our religion and our
God Unite or die is therefore at prelent, more "
than It ever was before, a maxim and a dutv of l '
ind.iperifablf obligation. * ai
The fr.ends of government should not only fc
know their own lirength, which I Mi=ve is o
great; but they should also know their enemies t |
and their lirength. i hey lhould atft with regn- si
larity, ui t ion and decision ; determined to sup
port one another, and the common cause of f:
their country and government against all pofßble
rilques. But this will never be done without
niore union, and a betttr organization. Look
f t ,, t .' lf r ' aCoh i n3 • f uc A "h kojte doreri ; fake a
lelion from them. Every where, however wi Je
ly dispersed, their lirength is concentiated •
they acl with the usitv of inflinel, as well as
the indtftry of demons; and it is b* th-fe
meins, they have be«n able to retard and criop'e
every measure of national defence ; altho'iigh- "
they are fc*er in number, and incompjral. lv o
weaker in power, that they are dill able to fee' I
j the hopes, as well as to po.nt the blows of our ir
; barbarous enrmy.
I Let, therefore, Associ ati on sbe formed in
every confi erable City and Town of the Unit- r
ed States (the eximple may be set in Philadel
phia, 10 justly ci«flihpruifhrd for its patriotic ex
ertions) let committees be appointed; fundi ) ,s
raded; prefies employed ; let information he n
dineminated at cheap rites every where ; let the
ignorant be
ed ; the banditti watched, in their upriftng and
dof.vniyings ; and I will rffer my neck to the
guilh tine, if, in rwelve months, after the scheme
is brought into operation, they are not complete
ly en/lied.
I The money and notes, taken by requifi
uon from the Bank of Pennsylvania, amount- ! „
ed to th. enormous sum of 164,000 dollars ; !
-tie whole of which has been recovered, to f,
within 2,000. This wa» almost a Gallic b
hug 1 fie Por er, Cunningham, wbo was ;
i alio a Democrat, wag a man' ia whom, it
seems, the greatest confidence had been
p<ac,d— f which he availed himfelf to effeft
his villainous purposes. Finding he had '
got the Fever (with which he was seized (
the day after the robbery) Davis went to '
him, and thinking it uiifnfe to have so great 1
a quantity ot money, in so myllerious a fitti- 5
attcii, proposed to take it all home with
him, which was done : Davis, having thus
gotten the whole into his poffeflion, be
,■ th ught hiin how he might dispose of it ;
| and began to make large deposits in the
j different Banks. Coming, one day, to the c
, B-ik of Peruifylvania, with a coi'liderable
| fu;u, and being known to some perfous in t
.
• ' • * * ... J
c the bank, as a man wkofe visible means wore |
0 infiyniftcjnt, strong fufpiJous naturally |
d arole, and an erquiry was immediately
k made at the other banks, where it appeared
it lie had made (iepofits to the amount of
1 17,000 dollars. 'Means were instantly taken
to examine him, and after mueh ado, he
confeffed—refufing, however, to acknow
. ledge a large quantity of gold, which was
in the end difeovered upon him, untouched.
He had purchased a carriage and pair of t
- horses which he delivered up. Cunningham
died four days after the robbery.
The horrid (Irides with which the Dcmo
, crats of America daily advance in depravicy,
through the influence on their minds of
thofc deteflable principles of France, which
a inculcate that all property is common, that
to hold wealth is ariftocratical, and that j:
there are no future rewards or.punifhmeifs, i
a must, if net suddenly and severely checked,
- too' up all the foundations of society
h —We regret, therefore that the villain has I:
' escaped the hands of justice, It-is hoped
I that these terrible instances, added to hun- F
•_ dreds which have heretofore occu r ed,of the si
. danger of tru fling men of democratic princi
f pies, will operate in future as a caution to
i all public bodies as well as individuals
f _
? The Prejident l#ft his feat at Quincy for
' Philadelphia on Monday week. S
y '
A commencement for conferring degrees
) was held in St. John's College, in the City
of Annapolis, on the 9th inft. when the' c
• degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred
' on meffrs James Dmaldfou Lewrey*; John
' Rum fey. John Leeds Kerr, John Taylor
( Lomax, William Potts, William Campbell,
i John Hanfon Thimas, Alexander Hammett,
1 John Claude and William Donaldfon*"
1 . ~ I
' On Friday lad, an elegant Bridge, con- o
fitting of one larg.* arch, which had _/'uft
' been conftrnfted over the river Lthigh, at
. Eafton, at the txpenfe of several thousand 1
dollars, unfortunately fell in. The ingc
: nious builder, was Mr- Horn, of that place. J
i The United Staee's Frigate. Canditution,
capt. Nicholfoo (f ys a Bolton paper) has I
. arrived in the outer harb ur, having sprung j I
her bowsprit and foremaft in tbe-fate heavy : c
: ga!e ; of wind.
5 -
1 We are well a(Tursd. that Nathaniel Pot
■ ter, one of the porters of the Bank of I'enn
fylvania, who died of the late fever, was not
; concerned in the robbery of the Bank He
. was ill of the fever at the time of the robbe
: rv, and is well known to have performed his .
1 duty to the Bank with the utmost fidelity
and to have afted throughout the whole
course of his life with uprightgefs and integ
rity.
Those Printers who Have publilhed an
account of rbe discovery of the robbery are
I requested to publish the abpve.
1 .
Mr. Fenno,
ALTHOUGH I have heard much said
about the beginning of the Nineteenth Cen
tury, I never supposed a reasonable doubt
subsisted in the mind of any person when
that period would arrive, and I acknowledge «
myfelf much farprifed to hear a gentleman
of education, abilities and candor, advocate
an opinion different from mine. From th s
circa:n(lance I am UA to propose tli£ fol
lowing questions and answer them agreeably
to my own ideas of the matter. I
How many years make a century ? Sup
pose on« hundred—can the second centurv '
commence before the firft i 3 complcated ?
we suppose not—Thequeftion then is when
was the firft century or hundred years com
pleated ? But not having befn much ac- T
quainted with centuries, and finding a ma- r
thematical prop rtiop between them and
months, I fnollitute.) th- word month in »
the place of century, «'hen a similar position
at once occurred to my mind. Moses mv J.'
son a fise boy \*as born a little before <ne j;
o'clock in the morning of the firft day if a i
the present month of November. Ha is my fli
firft child I -*ifh to know when he will
enter his second monjh. JE oi
N. B. As it is a matter of much anxiety I
to the parent he wilheq an answer.
Nov. 17, 1798.
" MR. FINNOj
" In your paper of yesterday, I observe
you have copied from a Gazette called the
Aurora, an advertisement for a private meet
ingo'f the United Irilhmen of Philadelphia, -I
on the 23d inftar.t, with what is called their t£
Rising Parole and Countcrjign, printed thus,
in capitals.
O -DKOMAGHT SA.OIRSE*UGHT.
The mystical meaning of which may be N
found by any anagramtnatift, to be applica
ble to any close meeting in the dark, in any
, I large city, where their rising might com
mence by night.
The Parole is d
ajoa!
Countersign, "
Xjns tagger cuts*
It was originally intended f.r Dublin ; e !
where most of the United Irifhm n tvere ar- d
med with Daggers only, owing to the diffi- 11
> : culty of concealing their pikes and mulkets t]
1 | from the general search by government, — E
: but this is the firft time I have met with it -
1 in th>s country. '
A loyal Irijlman
I j 11 __ £
i ©a3«te~fit9arine ?U(t. .
' ! Port of Philadelphia. si
Clearnd
■ Ship America, Hardie, Hamburg \
' Enterprze, Tate, do. c
1 Hero, Robifon, Algiers e
Voltaire, Bowen, Hamburg 11
The fiiip Adriina, Charlton, from hence n
to London, ar ived at Cowes about the 16th 1
September last, after having been captured
fcya I'rench privateer, and re captured by c
, the Lritift frigate Aurora.
v\' ' V
e l Hbulehold I urniturr,
p I
' -■» ■slponed in consequence of the Y/cathtr,
i '.«» WILL II solo,
j. On Friday. extat9 o'clock in themorning at
iVu. 40, lonianSStreet,t t,
Between Thift) and Fourth for cafiij
a valuable and general njfortment of l?
Household &Kitchen Furniture
ALSO,
A eolle&ion of valuable hooks, and sundry ar
ticles far 'he of Chocolate:
CONNELLY I?? Co Autlicnrers.
November is 2t
WILLIAM YOUNG,
Bookseller & Stationer.
Comer ol Second and Chesnut-Si r f.it.
HAS how opened f>r Sa'e, a neat affmtm at
of F.nglijh, Latin ami Greek SCHOOL
BOOKS WCLASSICKS, of the latcft auJ
> ' bed Editions.
ALSO,
- Writing Paper, Sla:es, Wafers ind other ar«
) titles for the l'upply of '.Yholefale purchal'ers.
1 W. Toung, has lately Publilhed an
• Edition of the Bible for the use of schools, on a
. fine, and alio 011 trommon Paper. Alfa, an edi
. tion of the Porlcet Bible, in one, and alio bound
in two volumes.
Sheridan'* Dictionary, in one large vol.Bvo-3
dn do umo. fine j7;
do do do C.JinraoTi 1y?
r do do Elements of English
Sand ord Merton, on fine paper,
3 vols. g ilt edges 1.37$ '- 1
( Scotts LrfTns g 0
The Lso.ilc of Common Praver 66}
A larye allowance made 'o th fe who pur
: chafe who'efa'e, either in :heets, or neatly bound.
I nov 11 , t
: FOR UK £~M E N~
> THe ship
, Jgg|k TR I j ON,
SHE Is row loading, and will cer-
f jt; **~'i jt^\V, ir. 1 y tail in i'en —For ire.ghc
■ or paliaj> t jj ply to ' •
t Pratt & Kmtzing.
t WHO HAV t FOR S ALE,
1 Ticklenburghs -hecks
- Qzsabriga
Hc®>rjs Sliced
Brown rolls Cam!>rick9
Coffee bags { nie
» j PI at ill as Glafstumtyert *
s Brirtanias fort wine
r EAopailles Window glass
r , Creas a la Morlaix !V m-one
I Bieicfield linnen Mahogany
Dowlas Red craft chcefe; &c.Jcc#
Patterbornes .
ALSO
For Freight or Charter,
- -■? TUE ® REMtN 8K "
' CHARLOTTE,
' -Apply as above
- nov - 21 diot
~ BOST ON BEEF;
1 200 Barrels in Shipping Order.
FOR SALE BY
JOHN SKTRIN,
No 96, Aortb From-Jlreet•
I Who wants to Charter,
A GOOD s<rour vessel,
1 Of about 300 Tons burthen.
: HAS ALSO FUR SALE.
1 40 Pipes of Madeira
: "" v '' ' , m 4 t
' <& A stated meeting of the Amerhan
. Philcfophical Society, will be held at their
Hall, on Friday evening the 23d instant.
Nov. 21.
Philadelphia Price Current,
AND
Market Day Advertiser,
TO BE PUBLISHED EVERY WEDNESDAY AND
FRIDAY MORVINC.
( HE fubferiber refpeflfully informs the
A public, that the above Price Current for
which proposals were ifTued by him not long f.nct,
1 ill ftandsin need of some further encourage' <rnt
to"able him to go on with it. He flatters him.
lelt, however, from the incrrafe ofhis fubferi; t:o;i
. 11l within th.fe few < a.s jiaU, that he will be en
abled to give it to the public in the c«ur<"e of a
ihort time. In the interim he earneflly solicits
u-'icriptions, whi Ji are thankfully received at hi»
" c ">, no - S9< south Third lireet, opposite the
Bank ol the United States.
James Humphreys.
nov "ee o t
■A Coachee & Pair of Horses,
FOR S A' L E,
Ok reasonable terms,
ACOAC lIEE ar.d pair of Horses, they may
be seen at John DunWondy's—For
te.ms apply at No. 96, Arch-ftieet.
nr>v 21 d.U
James & William Miller,
S3> North Thud Street,
Near Arch street, have the iollowing articles for
sale upon moderate terms for cash, or the
usual credit.
Scarlet Cloth,
Low and middling quality, Mulberry and Green
ditto, White, Red, and Yellow liifli Flannels,
Blue, Green, and Mulberry half thicks. India ca
licoes, Gurrahs, Mamoodies, Guaainet, and other
muslins, fajicy andplai:i cotton hofei velvet., thick-
Yetts ?nd fancy coras,"fiwing silk and twill of alt
colours, ferreting, hair riblian, coloured thread,
India (lag bandar.oe', and other black and colour
ed silk handkerchiefs, a variety of o-her cotton
■ do. Souter romals, red Sella handkerchiefs, mo
leens, jeans fpioni;. fuflians, beivm, jeans, fa
i tinett3 3iid royal ribls, alf mufl nets and dimities,
ginghams, ladies' kid an A . coloured gloves; See.
no?- § lot
Ephrajm Clakk,
CLOCK fs* WATCHMAKER,
Corner of Front and Market Arms, Philadelphia,
HAS JUST RECEIVED,
BY the different arrivals, a large fapply of Clock
and Watch makers and Silver Simths Tools,
files and materials,
consisting or
Rowling Mills, large and fnull Benchand Hand
Vices, Turnbenches, Piyers, Sliding't ongs, Bra.
cesand Bitts, Grooving tools, Saws, Scratch I rsfh
-5 er, Blow pipes, Screw and ]jiav7 plates, ar.d
r lmail Hammers, Clock dials, * aft brass Bells, for
ged w*rk Hod pinions, F.-nrry, Rotten Hone, Pu
r mice ftor.e, Borax, Spcl'cr Sorder, Brass, Stfel arc!
j Iron wire, fhett BraT*. n.aia springs r.nrl glaf?e»
J gold. E'lti and ftcel chains, seals and Keys, ote. &c.
r C?" Clock sand Watches carefully ripaired
r.ov. zi '■ eo d t fImported 4*
In the la:t arrivals from Bremen,
Hamburg avd Amsterdam,
AND FOR SALE,
AT FEAIOjiaBLk PKICES AVD ON A LIBERAL
CREDIT, BY
Pii/iTT KINT7IXC,
K0.95, North Water street.
215 bales & boxes Ticklenburghs,
hempen linens and ozuabrigs from ]yj tp
3J' per ell
70 do. bleached and brown hessians
40 do, brown rolls suitable for cos- j
f e bags
20 do. itrong do. do. for cotton do.
SO chtfts platillas a do. fcalii; j'-wax
3 do. dow' is 3 packages oil-cloth
d© crcas ala Morlaix 4 do. fail-twioe
12 do 1 watches
I,s do. lii leficid linen T4 pipes Port wine
90 do. psttterbornes 92 cases claret
45 do
I do. Hoiidod canvass claret »
I do. Ruflia do. 1600 buftels fine fait
3 do. Ruflia (hectings o cafkt ofroll briinftone
1 do. ravens duck 200 calks of naval stores.
2 do. Ruflia drillens 50 logs prime mahogany
1 do. brown holland 4 hhds. coffee mill*
2 do. Silesia rcuans b bundles German steel
X d'y.Wahrendrop
x do. Caraudoles pencils
J do. Fkihiih liaens \ package of skates
I >'o. cambricks and A, do. woolen caps, &c.
lawns 4 c.hHis of Nuruiberg
1 do diaper toys
II do. lii Lpe.s 40 of yellow ochre
18 do. checks 3 hhds. Glut .
2 do. i'amo.s 8 ba.nelt cf Lertilles
I do. Arabia stripe 5 ehe"i T s of prime red
I do. hurting for colors crust Holland
I packa. Madras hand- 30 kegs of pearl barley
kerchiefs 60 boxes of capers
I do. 1 urkey yari» 400 fide# of upper and '
6 hales empty bags foal leather
I chest hair ribband 300 boxes window glass
5 boxes r3pe*,afforted fcco Demijohns
t 2 do. bobbin,fl.Torred 50 boxes glass tumblers j
t box threads & tapes aflorted
1 do. fire blue
5 cfacPs men's flippers 1 box ol mid Taws
3 do bed ticks I cask of cutlery
2 Cafis iiog'> bristles \ quantity of sone jugs -
6 cheils v riting paper and pickling pots
4 do. quills A few ships anchors, &.c.
"rvembef t: tn&f tf
" ' FOR SALE, g
By the Subscriber,
The Cargo
Of the Jhip Louisa, ;
Csptain Champlin from St. Petersburg,
CONSISTING OF
HEMP and BAR IRON.
tl
In the Jhip T)ifpatch, T
Captain Benners, frfii Hamburg,
15 boxes Linens,
and a quantity of
Sheathing Copper,
Arid ths remainder of jhip Rich- u
mond's CARGO, from Calcutta,
containing - variety of r ,j
Coarse and fine Muslins, pc
and an .elegant itSortment of
Madras Handkerchiefs.
Mordecai Lewis.
.Phi».7d».Jr bia. no* 7 \
j AML6 u KiCri aRU SMI IH, wi
HAVE this day returned from the country to
their STORE, No. 54, South Front street, ca
where they htve for fule, as ulual,«-targe and ge
neral aiTortment of European and Eaft-Icdia
DRY GOODS ,■
mod of which have now arrived and are landing,
from the different vefTels, from Lon
don, Liverpool and Hull.
'Their Cuilomers by applying will find almost
every article gcnera'ly importtd, and at as low
prices for cafii or credit,as ihey can be had else
where. !
N. B A few Cases of Nurenbergh TOYS, a
consignment, to be fold by the cafe only. j
PHlndcUhia, Nov. r, 1798. dtf
X A N D I N G,
From on board the Brig Amiable Matilda,
Richard Stites, Matter, from Cape j
Nichela Mole. f
13 Bales Socks and Flannel l>awers ") W
18 Do Gaiters j 5' o
2 Do. Rugs , <£. J"
1 Do. H>ivre Sack? ' w w
2 Do. Flannel Trowfers I
i • | 3 ft
a Do. 1 ents, J z
Also jaft Imported, x
In the Ship Chtfapcake, Captain W«bb, fi«m I
JLiverpoo',
147 Grates of (Queen's Ware,
Aflorted particularly to suit the Weft-India a
Market—For Sale by
Thomas is* John Ketland.
November £
The Subscribers
HAVE JUST RfcCFIVID A* INVOICE OF
Choice Chefhire&'DoubleGloucefter ' A
cheese.
[Per the Chesapeake from Liverpool.]
100 Boxes of Window Glass,
Of various sizes, per the Jane, from London.
They have also for Sale, , Ad
200 Casks of Refined Salt-Petre, the
AKD A QUANTITY OF 1
Fine Castor Oil. ! I
fame: C. .& Samuel IV. Fijher. -Ar
November I dtf
Bond 6c Brooks, of -
Co*KEX OF Market and Sixth itiieti, fan<
HAFE RECEIVED, and
by the late arrivals from London, Liver- hav
pool and Hall, of t
A LARGE 4*l> CXNtEAL A3SORMENT OP "j'lf
DRY GOODS, 2
W ki'ch they are cow openirg for faU, at the mod
reduced price»,for ca(h cr the usual credit.
A capital Stand for Business
TO LET,
That large and comniodious HOUSS, no. 39, No'
fe»th Front ftieot.dcefllyoppoQtethe Pott-03i"ce,
ti v.i:h the llore and cellar, on the Water- n<
f;r«etlide. Er.qsire as aiwve.
nov 17
sTo Let, ~ T
THE house, No. 78, North Se- £*
t jnd lireet, with or without a {lore and liable
ihchoule is large and convenient ; enquire of . r
John Litle, No. 40, North Cith street. "
Jdobcr 31. . w&fi t f
5? | John Dobbin,
ft* BOOT SHOEMAKER.
£SP{iC J'FULLY i'tfortiis his I'Vit-nds and
' 'V Hip Public in gen»ral th?t he far --son his
biifitiefs at Ho ;9 South econd-Jheet, ni.»rly op
p-Hte the Merchints Coffee house •-hare pen
al tlemrn nuybe supplied in the neatefi and heft
manner—he allures ;h«>fc who may please to fa
vor him with their commands that no attemion
reet. or exertion on his fide shall be wanting to render
hs, him wflrthr of their encouragement,
ftp ®- Orders receired will he pur.ttually at
tended to.
novemher < &
ins r— —— ,
o f_; University of Pennfyivania,
j Nov. 13, 1798.
Medical Leflures, iu the University,
will afludlly commence on Monday, the 26th 1
j of this month. £tz6 1
O" The OFFICE '
cf the Board of Commissioners, under 1
k ( the 6th Article of the Treaty of Amity,
&c. with Great Britain, is returned to
No. 129 Mulberry street.
lone kt .
ires. N ° V - I - (
: " y Horles to Winter. '
steel taken into Winter at Peel Hall '
and -V~ Farm, two miles from the City on the J
Aft iflahickon road.The terms .may be known at
No 12, North Tl.lrd-flreet. V
&c. nov 12 eod'Gt <<
«r g The Custom House is re- ;
:hre movedfrom Chefier to the City, and j!.
, s -is again opened at the usual place.
, November 3 j I "
eef t University of Pennfyliania.
Rle? Tup • l °' v *79®' I"
Tdifferent Schools will be opened on I
an " Thursday the 15th instant. By order, t
r-r, Wu. ROGERS, Sec'y. "
Mrs. SCOTT o
lcri her Friends in the City, and hkewift
ihofe iv bo Jlill remain in the Country, that/he I
has returned home with her Family, to No. 1,
Carter's Allev.
ugs ? '°. - eo,t.
wanted, y
See. A MIDDLE AGED WOMAN, e<
\ WHO undtrftands.Cooking, Houfeworh r tj
generally. Enquire at No. 109, Walnut street. I g
novemher J % eo s t ,J n
BALLAS-lT «
) A QUANTITY to b-difppfed of, if applied for I
immediately, on board the Ship Lotiifa, ■lying I
Mr. HUMPHREY'S Snip Yard. N
nQveanberio. <\
TO RENT, N
A convenient HOUSE, ribout
twenty feet front with hack buildings—corner of I
Third and Cherry-Greets. Enquire of
J. HALLOWELL,
no. 50, Walnwlh-eet. I
nov. io, ediw J
NQf/CiE. ,]
SA.VIUEL RICHARDET, informs the G^nrie-J fy
mch Suhfcrihrrj, that vhc EX C HAN G E 0 f
J- is opened for their reccp.ion ; and the CITY L
TAVERN, for Gentlemen and 'Travellers— j f
Latl Spring added an a'ddftion of tvVelve Bed I tj
Chambers to the fide—trailding, which makes it I j '
pcrfeii ly convenient. I u0
Movcpiber 6 } X2\v f e
* L_ „ . , I
A Young Man, j li
WHO writes a good liand, understands j ° ( ']
accounts andean be well recommended, I 0 a
( wants a Situation as Clerk or A-ffiitar.t in aI •
to Wholesale Store, nr Coiiuting-hoafe. Appli- J '
;tj cation to be made at this Office.
.. nov ju § I
Printing Work,
i' Of Every Kind\
EXECUTED AT THE SHORTEST of 1
ft NOTICE,
v At the Office of the Gazette of the
United States,
Oft. i t. dtf.
JAMAICA RUM, |
/I Cargo now landing at SouthJlreet wharf,
FOR SALE BT I Tj
PETER BLIGHT\
9 Apply at Stores on the Wharf,
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOtt SALE,
BRANDY, ift and 4th proof
Madeira and Po,rt WINES, &c. &c.
3 Nov. 1. dtf
* JUST ARRIVED,
From Bourdeaux, j L
And for Sale by the Subscriber, I T ,
6o Boxes Frelh Ka:fins I Mi
118 dozen Ladies long Gloves I T)
i 116 ditto ditto ftiort clitto I A
■ALSO, j and
An Invoice of fine Cambrick OI J I
i and Black Lace. I '
WILLIAM LYNCH. J "f!
No 8, Penn-ftreet > I P
novemher io. \ d.ot
FOR SALE, I wife
AT THIS OFf ICE, I
- ' A FEW Copies of an interesting Work, in I P °
L Preach, entitled a Hidory of
The Administration of the French ?
Finances, I
DURING THE YEAR i 7 96.
' . '„ An Hlftori(,jl an <i Political View of the IT>
, Administration of the French Republic, during 1J
the year i 797 ,-- 8 f t h e cau f ej wh ; ch produc . He j
| cd ,ht vest,
! Revolution of the 41b September—
. And of the results of thai Revolution, ja C;
PRICE I I% OLLAR EACH. fal . !o
Tbefe two political trails, are from the pen
of the Crated d'lvernois.and contain a thou- f.T
fafld li'Urtfting difclufures of the follv, venality
and prefligacy of the .difiixem Ulurpers who o
. have reigned in France during the latter stages
of the horrible Revolution how pending in that t
miserable and depraved country. I J(
. B 1
10 be Lot, in t]
AND POSSESSION GIfEN P""'
dN T3E 14TH APRIL NEXT,
THE CITY TAVERN h M
Now in the po&ffinn of Samuel Richa'rdet. t'oh.
Apply at this Office. I bufin
novamher y, § I term
REMOVAL. £
IHE SUBSCRIBERS h-^vc removed their Office ment
from the corner of Eleventh Street, to their former not
Counting House, Ko. al, Fenn Street. ' any j
ft Wings if Francis. F lcds
Novetabcrj § I
I
Goods for Ea'timore, |
H'lll be rec-i-.'ed at theJlo-es of, aid far'.uard.u ,
Uy THE 3 JBSCUESRS,
I a . " they are delivered to them proptr
n his V y ly direiSed and in good order, will be ac
y op- rou'JtaMc (with th.' exception of accidents) f>r
gen- tlieir fafe carriage. Due attention wiU i-e paid to
best dispatch.
°. tj " Levi HsUiiigsivortb & Son.
" ,: " n nov if. d IPt
Lo r i
y at- A FRONT PARLOUR cs" CHAMBER,
Geenteslly FURNISKFD, i
With or without Boarding.—Enquire, at
No. 38, Arch ltreet.
9 novtraber 17 dtf
<-* A I- 1 - PERSONS having any legal demaAdi a
- j dn. pa'nll the Cilate of jpiHijm } } <rii-s 1 Jiicjdcd,
iotli lat; qf the city of Philadelphia, Tavern keeper, are
6 to furii.lh their accounts properly au
thenticated, and all perfens indebteJ to said eihlte
are r.-qjelled to make payment to the fujlcnb.r in
lder Philaaelphia. ,
LEVI HOLLING3WOR I H Adminr.
. ' Oflobcr 31 ft, 1795.
to "DiSTRIOI OF PENNriVLS'rtXIrt, luwli :
BE IT REMEMBERED, «
THAT on the twelfth day 1
- J of A.UJUH, in the tvVenty-third year of J
the Independence of the United State 3of 1
Hall Asneriea, Benjamin Smith Barton,of thefaiddif- :
j ie tridl, hath dcpofited in this office the tills of a
II at '" > °' £ l^e whereof he claims as author in the
words following to wit -.
" New Views of the Origin rf the Tribes and !
" 4t Nations of America—By Vcnjamiji Smith Bar
re- i " ton, M.D.Correl'pondeat Member of the Socie-
Lrtd I ' ty t!v: Ant H u - , »« of Scotland, S.lcntber of
I " the American i'ilii ofjj"'deal eociety, I'ellow of *"
I" thc American Academy of jsrts and Sciences of
5 " Boflon, Corrcfponjirg Member of the Maffa- c
j " chufetts Hiltorical Society, aad Profeifor of ®
j" Materia Medica, Natural lliflory aad Uotany a
i. I" in the Univerjty of l'enafylvania " 1
on I In conformity to the ail of the Congress of thc 11
I United State-, intitlci! "An ail for thi, encourage- 1
I ment of leiming by securing the copies of maps,
• j charts,and oooks, to the authors aHd proprietor,
los such copies during the time? tKer.in mentioiud.'s v
wife I SAMUEI, CALDWELL, Cierk, Dill. ot Penn' 1
Jhe I November 1, 1798. t
• l ' I Bchk of Penn/ylvania,
it. I „ September jd, 1798. q
—I T^ HE;KE A S tV.e Hoii'r »t-nryfent
r"* .ly the Bank oT"l s e:i~nTy!vania was er,teT-
Itd on the n;ght of thefirlt instant, by fohie vil
ork I Jains, who robbed ti;e ir.ftitation of fundiv
'• I Bank Notes, which were the follow
-11 I "K post notes of the Bank of -New-York, vir..
No iooa, dated 13d of A«gufl, 1798, Dolls •
for I ilTued in favor of Seabring &
ing j Van Wyck, for 396 5l A
I No looj, dated 25th of Auglift, 1798,
I illlied in favor of Montgom-
I ery and Newbolti for 1150
I ioc6, »?th do. do. do. 3000
Ut j looj, do, do. do. do. iooo I fc
of I 1008, dp, do do. do. booo ici
I 10C9, do. do. do. do. aooO |Ji
icio, iSth do. do, do. 2000 at
J Jon, do. do. do. do. 4oco Ith
1 Jon, 30th do. do. uo. ijoo lai
J c '°- 1000 .cl
Also lundrypoft notes of the Bank of Penn- pr
'VI a.»d July 1797, iflued in favcr Ct
-r ° P eflr^ e Hughes, for one thousand dollars
__ I eac h» and fuodrv pofl notes of feid iiank, da-i
ted ' \ K l d I , Jth '797, iff«ed in favor of Geo.
it Hu P hes - f ' J . r five hundred dollars each and in
I dorl'ed by him. 1 he.public are herobvcaution- ai
led agair.fl receiving the said notes, "and a re
— ward of T/f'O THOUSAND DOLLARS is
j hereby offered tor thr discovery and fonviilion
ds I °'i tlle , vll ' a J" s w ' lo perpetrated or are concern p
•d I e< n j,° ! r °' a ' irr y> ' n addition to the reward
' offfrd by the Governor of the Commonweal*!
. in his Proclamation of this day.
By order of the Board, j"
I JONATHAN SMITH, cashier. | at
Madras and Ventapaulem
HANDKERCHIEFS,
J Searfaukers and Carradarries,
of the newest and mofl approved pat.terns,entitkd
to .the drawback, just received, jj J
AN» FOR SALE BY
Alex. J. Miller fcf Co. Ca
No. 64 South Front street. r "
| may 18. ret
C t FOR SALE, L
The Cargo of the Schr. Siscerity I)ai
I Benjamin Montcith Master, from I.aguira, e
C»N»IJTING ot Lie
945 Fenegas of Cocoa inc
4000 lb. of Flora Indigo
»io Bales of Cotton
+ Packages of Goat Skins
By Willings & Frantis. Phi
. . No. Eleve»th.flre«t. 1
-J u 'y 4: dtf
Mails for South-Carolina tsf Georgia, ° ff
I are now provided for carryiDjj the
I . mail(l, y water between Philadelphia
andi Ckarleftci. They will leave Philadelphia
on Friday's. The poll 1 T land will ke continu
ed twice a week until an experiment i< made in Em
I regard to the expedition and regularity of the to
1 packets. If any person chufts to have their a
I letters sent by land only, thty will please to
- I wr ' te , e word Land upon the letters : other-
W; n si^ y « w! " be r fent by that convf }'ance which
I U after the letters are left in tke XT
I pofi-cmce. y>
fofeph Haberjham, prof
' PA-/ v, c- PoJl.Maf.er Cemerl. f**
I Philadelphia, Jlugufl 13, 1708. thcn
I —— ■ y __ com
TEN DOLLARS REWARD. C L
' I TV™ 0 ,aft night ' 3 rccond time, frora v ° '
' H j Manne Cam P. D™<t Lufier, a fife-. J
- He: had when hewent away, a plain blue jacket and ".' Cd
I veil,light blueoverills, a round hat,which had been t,Ce>
I b °® l ! d J ? ¥ith Y ell °w, and which had ripped off
lin his firtl deferfion, and a pair of new (hoes, he is C
• I a Carpenter by trade, has grey eyes, sandy hair « a
I Vr-'T C , om P lcxlon and » nitch in his upper lip n(
I His back is fit 11 fore from a flogging he got a few
I days ago. He may ba discovered by his fifein«
I as he plays extremely well. '
I W. W. BUR.ROWS.Major Com. of the '° n
> Oftober 17. Marine Corps. W
» P c
John Haines sff Wm, Jones, | C "
T> EG leave toinform their'friends and thc public, Cai "
I IJ that they have commenced a Co-pattnerfhip Rou
lin ths SADDLING BUSINESS, which will in Pate
I future be carried on under the firm of ■ 15
HAINES & JONES, £
n Market flreet, No. i 3», one Moor above the Cop,
corner of Fourth,—where they presume (at lead Boar
toh.pe) thatthcir attention to, and knowledge in Com
I bufinefj, their determination to serve on the best Guci
I terms, and their known attachment as Native A- Tin
mericansto the Government and Canftitut'ioH 0/ Patti
their Country, will entitle them to thc encourage- Lone
ment of a generous publie. Although they can- Kc
not boast of having acquired their experience in ! F.artl
any part of Europe, yet they take the liberty of
pledging themselves, that their ir.ar.ufa&ure flta'l
be inferior to none in this city.
- iunC tuthstf 0 ,
,
Forty Dollars Reward.
■rdj ' DESERTED,
! From a Detachment of Men under my com
>Pcr - mand x at Camp IVeft Schuylkill, viz.
® '' c ~ Oitober 29.
f " f*• FORGE KELLER, 40 yeara of age, S
no to inches in height, dark hair and
complexion, bom in Helland, no Trade, lpeaka
■ broken Er.glith a*d very talkative, has a dimple
ot in hia chin.
| Nwcintjr 6. John Murphy, 37 years of
1 age, j feet 7 inehe* in height, grty eyes, dark
•*» h.ir and complexion, born in Ireland, city of
Dublin, by trade a Hozier.
e,at Jacob Jdiri, 34 years of age, 5 feet 6 inches
; hi»h, grey eyes, sandy hair, frefh complexion,
if bsm in Neu--l£ngland, state of Coimeilicut, a
J7I- repeated tWerter, by tradea Blaekfmith.
jfad, November 7. Williain Collins, 3<>yeaiS of
, are age, .< feet 6 inches high, sandy hair, frefh com
- au- plexirn, grey eyes, born in Ireland, count yof
iate Wexforkl, by trade a Gardner, has worked for
it in feme tin*!? about Philadelphia, he is very fond
to -hear himfrlf Sing,
r. All the above dtferters are verym<tch addifl-
ed to liquor, and will take other people's pro
-1: perty if 111 their power, are artificially marked
on their backs, on, when they went away, ,
lay 'heir regimental clothing. Whomever appre
rol 'ichJs fa id dtferters, (hali receive forty dollars
;3 of 'ewird, or ten dbllars for each, with ali reafon
dif- a ble exipences, by applying t® me as above,
,f a EDWARD MILLER, captain
the id regiment of Infantry commanding.
nov 1o £
I£ d I A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
CIC-
rof JOHN A. SHAEFFER, «1 Philadelphia, who
rof f° r a f ew years paA been in the fouthetn Stuis,
sa [ has had the effrontery to draw feveial Bills of Ex- (
tffa- change on Timothy Picketing, Esq. Secretary of .
. a [ State, and niyfelf,and by that means has defrauded
any a number of persons of their money, deceiving
them by an exhiliition'of 1.-ttersaud papers with the
the nam es affixed of divers public and repu
uu. table merchants highly recommendatory of said
»ps, Shaeffer; to one of tbefe papers 1 find my name
tor, fubferibed, but Ido not know the man ; these are
■d.'s villainous forgeries! To preveflt further imposition,
:nn > I liaveto request thej rintcrs of Newspapers in the "
United States to publilh this for the benefit as their ?
fellow-citiiens. SAMUEL MERKDITH, '
Trcafkr.r th VnitulStatu '
, Trenton r Nttv yerfry,"\ g c
• eJr -DfUjer 34, —„ '
Tbis rhtj- fhtblifJjed, 1
j r y Aiwl for sale at tlte GSce of the Editor, No.
w- IJ 9 Chafnut-fi'tet,
\z. (Price I-%tb of a Dollar,)
s AN ORATION, 5
i 'Pronounced Jiily 4,1798,
1 2 At iherequclt of the Inhabitantsof the Tow*. ef 1
HOSTON, in coain-.;m«ration of the anni-» ,
verfary of American Independedfce. ■'
By Jost.tß QyiNcr. °
" The inroads upon our ptlbiic USserty, call
for reparation—The wrongs we have fufiaineS, n
call for—Justice. That Reparation and that
ijuf'ice, rrfty yet be obtained, by Vrthn, Spirit,
and Fislnuess. But to divide and ttorHfuer *ims I
the njaxita of the Devil in tke garden of •Eden,
' and to disunite apd enslave hath been the prmci-. ~
pie of all bis votaries from t+iat periodto tlie
n- present." f!
cr Ciierva-thns tin t.'Je S6stoi Port-Bill, &c.p. ;'S ' "
rs ty tbe late J. %>uincy, jun. 1
a-s »u{rufl 11 fc
n This Day is Publiflied, i
1)- AND FOR 5A LtBYJ. Yf. NNO. ( 19.C H£S K U T-S T R *« T »
e - AN ADDRESS l
the People of Maryland, *
1 o ON , thc or 'g' n ' P ro gress and pjef-st ,f! ot e of I
rd Frenci * * ! * I» m&> °f the infamous ,
attempts to degrade the Govcrunient of the United ~
State#, ana fohie reflexions on tlit fate proceedings
In Coiigrefs; written the last of April in the pri „
lent year, by a Member of the Howfe of Rcprelen- 1 "
tativtts. 5 t
- • * june ii
NOTICE C:
To Owners of Carriages, and
d Retaivfrs of Wine Spirits.
TNcoiiftauenceof the late Epidemic in this
A City, numbers have to enter their
Carnages, also the retailers of Wine and Spi
rits to call and take oi>t their Licences The
" returning health of the City, the OfSoe is re-' ~
moved from Germantown to its former place,
y -eneg.eaed must caU and pay the duty on ry
their Carriages, and those retailers take out theii sol
Licences— I heir ready compliance will prevent S £f
incurring the penalty of the Law. X.t
ASII, Collector ho;
of the ijl Survey of the i/l
p. ~, . Di-oifion of Pennfylvaiiia.
Philadelphia, Office ot InfpedliGn )
No. 49* North Third-ilreet.
' OffiS The STAMP " PI<E SS is kept at this
I HOV 9 mw&fjw J
J JOHN SHIELDS,
BROKER, oft
i Embraces this opportunity to present his thanks
■ " for their pujl favors " 5 , t
a^H samts them that he is returntd from '
Chefnut-Hill, to his former rejider.ct, the '
Hoije Ao. zz Cbefnnt Front jsj 0
1 and Second-lireet, '
WHERE he holds himfelf readv to execute
their commands in braceh of his n
profemon, trulting that from a refidenc« in this
city of 35 years he lias it in liis power to render
them sffential service, attiring them that his
commission shall be ;s low as any in Town.
Lotts, Lands, Houses, VeiTels, Certificates
of every delcription and Bills of Exchange, T>
bought and fold, thedocketts carefully exam- AV
, "ied and clear titles made upon th« Oiorteil no- For,
t tice, by the public's humble servant, is
. _ j . John Shields.
, cr Good negotiable Notes discounted
■ at a low premium.
novcmhcr 1 3 »wtf
Just Imported,
Iwn cannon, double fortified, Woolwich proof of a
pound, " " rnaSCS 4- 6 L<; No.
j Carroaades, Woolwich proof, with carriages, & c Jh?
- W
Cannon powtJtrin of £ S ibt. e:,ch ~' CI
Round, double-headed, and cannitUr (hot
Patent lhcathing copper, bright, affortcd ig 3C
11, » 4 , *6 and a 8 or per ftjuar; foot, iheet's .8 fy '
by 14 inches, fintatle for v.lTtl, from 100 to Sad
iooo tons " 00 to C4 p t
Copper nails, bolts and spikes
Boarding Pikes,
Common cutlalTes
Gunners {lores of all kinds
Tin-plates No i—i- 3 cross W 5 :, „
Patent {hot in cafe 0 f s cwt. each J-T
bro ™ S
j Earthen ware ia crates, assarted anrt
For Sale by V,iU
SIMON WALKER, 7vl
OSober i 9. VuK ntir th ftrc<; -' P" n
* I eo.it. n
For Sale,
BT THE SUBSCRIBER*
C so°,°°o weight Of Java Coffee
LANDING f T ;,u 1
o c > 5 C-pcain Will*. from Batavia ? C^atM
Willi ngs Francis,
' m P k novembcr ,'6 N °- "• P * n "
irs of , FOR SALE, r ~—*
• dirk 1r r, y the SuW criber,
ity of Belfaft Canvass, N O . i t0 -
ncl.es ° W modt " te tWms 'or Cdh or a ftort
:xion, james Lyle,
:Ut ' 1 nov ,6 S "" near Cbcfnut. '
is
iiy of 4 r ?P^flV on will bemade at the Tr«
:d for * fu 7.? the United States [ OT the renewJ
fond f f . te \ certificates of Six per Cent
funded debt—lUnding in the nam. en . '
Idia- of Calcutta in Bengal, Sur^hS
»pro- ferv '" the honorable United Comply j
arked "! of England trading to the Ea7-I„
i way, , die 3' P w, " ch loft from of board the SwjL'
pprc- 'r-, Packet ' Ca l' t Kidd, from Falmouth tolW
ollars a°' K " Dolls, Cti
afon- 10 >444» Reg. office 14th Dec.
1793» °ne certificate for i,„ .
No 10,478, Reg office 17th Dec. * j3
'79j» one certificate for iq (Q
' S \ Ellijhn £3* John Perot
c7~
NOTI CK; ~
10 fes ALL Persons having claims upon the Fft,„
r p , J amc ' ' rhorburr '> Stonecutter, deceif
11 E*- ea, are desired to present them for payment '
uded [ a n n d ce»'to fe P ' Y thcil "
h thf Benjamin I'/. Morris, adminijlrator.
epu- nov '4 ' , lw „
T.o BE rented;
"Tre „ (/'nd immediatefiojfejion given, J
Ition, A LAUG£ r -« fto-v URIcK HOUSE
n the M X tltulte "» Walnut-lb eet—The rooms art
their commodious, airy and private-—IV m wMthued
us f^ entral posit on, ir is thought to be an elisi.
■tau, htc situation far a Public Office. For terms «,
quire of BEX?. IV. MORRIS.'
Af,o,A commodious Ware House, in Tav
jtawaw
Education. ~~
j
Samuel Moon, jun'rs School,
/N CHURCH AL L FX,
t* ef I s "P" 2g»o, for inMruAing Girl, in Readinir
;n "i-' . % , ritln f- Arithmetic, Gran.tnar, Geography!
including the Elements of Geometry, an d the Je
of the Globes. From-(he grt A t encouragement he
call . ' ilt ' lerto teeeived, he refpesflfully loliciu a con.
neG, of t!ie flTours <■£ bis Friends aad th.
that ' A r . _
irit, cr An livening School,
«ims For B 0 T S—Kept at the fame place
Je n> tt wo 6th. 'o& *iw 4 w
'the VV hek.£as the certificate ot two
flrares of the Lai.k ftf th'e TJnited States in the
'. yg ™ ne 0 S/ntiuef -ylmory, of London, hanker,
'No 3iß 2 ,ilTue<l in lieu of 11193, nj 94) were
forwarded froffl London by the Bi'itift packet
- j Counttfi, of Lciccfter, capt. Dodd, bound for
j Ne«-York, whicii packet was captured by the
nr 1 f ?re r |c h, jnd the fatri certificate loft ; andforthe
renewal of uliich. application is made at laid
Bank, and all persons concerned are desired u
take notite.
of( ——clement biddle.
;Ou«, Fhila. Oil. 2-6, 1798. eo6w
ited . .—^
FOR SALE.
en-i ce ? in whole a.a-d half Tierces.
I Sherry, and") ,»«*„«
Teccn'flfe / WISES.
Caroli.u and Georgia Indigo.
AND A P.IRCF.L OF
Shipping Furs and Skins,
his Apply to
eir N. &? y. Frazier,
P*~ No. 95, So. Front Street*
he noyember 13 3taw3vr
re- —_—
ce, Notice is hereby grvea,
ho THAT application will be made to the Treafn.
011 ry of the United States, for the renewal of the
en following Certificates of Six Per Cent Funded
:nt Stock, ftandmg in the name of Join Carionell, ef
I.tndou, thefaid Ccnificates hav'ing ! e-n loft on
board the Swallow. Packet, Captain Kidd. fro«
Falmouth to New-York.
Ao. 3072 1 Cert, for 2000 dolls.-)
2964 1 do. 5000 t
.. 1 °>s 7 7 1 c '°' 3000 j
" 6 IVilkngs & Francis.
Philadelphia, august 30. eo6w
— 1 • I
Notice is hereby given,
THAT appiitation wilifce mad to tSie.treafury
of the United States for the renewal of tlie follow
is " r: ' fi cates of fix per cents, funded debts, stand-
J >»tho name of j,W GuSriM, of Geneva,
which were lpft from on Doartl the Swallow Pack
et, Cap*., Kidd, from Falmouth'tp New-Yoik.
No. 3 1,5. Rey. office 19thMay ' 95 , Icert . rorfoo'o
13.181. do. 14th do. ck>. t d>. for 3500
£ French,
Uctofcer 24, * *
is eodow.
b R. Taylor,
MUSIC PROFESSOR,
; ® „ „ 96- north SIXTH-I THEFT
E ' R , J r 'ULLY informs the Public that
:: ssr " "»«« .
, N ° V - 6 - tuthsa
d Bank of the United States.
- -p,;;"? /s
I HAi application will bemade at the Trta-.
f of a C Ifi P ni - Icd statcs for renewal
o IJn ° f D 3,X f ;tr Funded Debt,
Keei[Ws 4 Offi ori l'" I ' do!larS ' J3cents ' dafe " J
tvegi.te. s Office, January Bih, 1708, iffited in
names of William Jan iViUirl,
T ft V jaC(ji r °" Stofbatjl 'd Huhpard, 1
dam , 1 c y ,n,,nt V Anders in Ar.>!ler
>, r . ' W J forw:ir Jed the nth of Janua
-8 I'a «! U 'V COVer :o Nicholas Obl>es ef,.
0 cint ?n f apt " TC ° f ' ,he ft! P Columbus,
captain Skinner,from New-.York forAmfterdara
Simbfon, ca/l'r.
nov 14 .
Horses to Winter.
jTOXSFs Will be taken in to winrcr at P« »-
briit | s ' C J '• L the iz Milestone, 011 liie
fnd r \ : . thiT Wi " >' e wdl r «* »ith clover
and t thy j we „ , jn<) c , a!id
„S Vt Ccld to exercii'e themselves
iy u • L ' J V "' a . c r n ;,"00(i. —i-Kqaire of Mr.
\>r''m'sL.~ We * #m ' Wittt i:recr > cr 00 ,be
N3v -7 o-r t r