"" J ** > ' 4 * 9
sf tin MllitCt? States, AND
By John J?enno, N 0- si q Chef nut Street.
Nvmseh 1657.]
Marshal's Sales.
ted States- 1>
lvar.i i Diiift. $ IT,
rtui ' j 'Ail! of Fitfificijs iCucd o-jtofthi
Ififi C" m-i of th: United Stales for tbe ftiir
■- DtArifi, to me dtre&cd >» ill he expolcd tr
ia!c, on Tudday the second day o
next, at fevcu o'clock in the evening
- • Icrrhiiit'sOwSre Fcofe'fh S~c6nft Ml >»
of pnitwrtMim. <»e to-Hnwina ..
/afint »fl'd ■ <1 Lt>n»ted r» thi
its ef Bedford in theStjte ol Peonfylvaoia—tc
te trjft of land clUfcd Rath Bottom, fituatec
raters of titlieiicreA, in Belfaft loWnihif
•h , me coupty, bounded by lands ot Jacob Bore
TUffS) Brooks and oihet*
Ag three hundred and ninety-One aTf), aid
lied and thirty cWo perches and the ufnal al
{ raftxalled Newland, fUuMed in Bel fa ft town
' •• he fame county, bounded by lands of Georgi
« lonci Diithangs, Neas William Difchsng
1 , Ufle and others, containing four hundred anc
es and threeqrra-ters,and theufualallowancts
<' raft called Hickory Ridge, fitaatcd on thi
>1 TonoJaway creek, in Belfaft township ir
tiiL-ftftit county, btfaoded brands of Elias Rutmm
Piter ktmgi:ts, George Boreriian, Sfohei Delhongi
and others, containing four hundred and forty-foui
.i.res and ninety-fix peaches and allowance, &c.
And on* traft calTed Gold Mine, fitua'.e on tlu
Tortolawaycreek In Belfaft toWnfhi?, ir
the fame ddunty, bod ruled by lands of William Wood
I'etcr Swartiler, Jjkn M'Lett, Jacob B-Jreman, Tlio
>ius Login and oilits, containing three hundredand
sci*» and fifty-fix'p-rchtt anti aHo-.* ?ncea, 35ec
The fuilSgomg triSs ire ill pattiVtrd, seized aoc
taken iH txicbnofc at tbe property of Philip Rerlly
aod to Se fold Dy
William IN it hols, Atar/hal.
Diccpibf.r 23. ' 7. ,
Matftiai's Saks.
Umitstw States, ) +
Pennfylvaiua D|iitri&, )
BjBV virtue of a writ of fieri facias iflued out of
the diftricfl court of the United St»t« foi
tile Fennfylvanii difiiifl, to me iiirecled*_wi*l
' e to filfc, oil Tiiefday the fecctarl
day cf January ntxt, at seven oVloct th lire
*veuiiijr, at til* JffefAjfits* Ctrfee-hoiift ih
(SecoiuHtreet, in the city 6f PhilatieljihiU, tHe
folio A'ing trails of parcels <4/ vacattt and unim
proved LAND, in the county of So
riverftt, hte county of Bedford, in tfit state of
Ptijnfylvariia, viz.— 3 .
certain trail,-fijrveyfrd itl tTie name of Ma
ry Esfleihari, cdritainiiig rhfte htrAdVtd ißc eighty
acres and th 6 u&il ullbirange ftc. fltuatWd dii tht
waters of Stony creik, in Stoney creek tftwnfhip,
and bounded by lands surVeyed fbr fol'eph Kirk
bride, John Koads, Charic* Heinfcaw, arrd o
flieri.
A 4#rtiin ottifr frafl, firveyed ta the rtamt
ef G?orge Campbell, coataifliflg foilr hiihdred
arid tert ict?i arid aliowartce 8«. Hrtatetl oh tht
Weft tide of Alleghany Mountain, oh the waters
of Stony creek, in Stony credt towpfiiip, fir
merly Bedford, aow Somerset eoantjr.andbouad
e3 by lands surveyed for Joleph Kirkbrida, Ma
ry Eafleman, Jaha Rowfer and others.
A certain other tn£l, lurveyed in the naflfie of
BenjamtTi i-odge, four hunHr'pitanH
fourteen a:res & thre'6 quarters & allowance,&c.
i>tuat«d oil the Witeftf of C!eai> ritli, a btaneh of
Stony creek, in Stony creek town(hig,,jn the
County aforefaid, and boundfd by lands surveyed
f»r William Ga«ack, WH'iam Ocorgi
tampbeil and dthers.
; A certain-other tntfly fnrvf-ycri iti the name of
Ulchird Williams, eontiihiHg three hundred
and nifiity-feven acres and a half iiii! illbtvariee
&c. fltuated on the ftafe roSd and old road lead
in 1; from Bedford to Pittftmrg, and, on thi wa
ters of Stmiy creek, iri Stotiy creek tov. nlhip, in
the county it'orefaid, and bounded by liads fur
vej'ed for Jatob Stotler, William GoUmy, Sa
nrmil Adiftis.jtfd offiirs.
A certain other trifl, fdrveyW iii the riaAie
as Wiltiam Gattack, containing four hundred
and one aCr-s and a half atid allowance"&c. situ
ated 011 Clear run, a branch of Stony creek, in
Stony creek townlhip, in the polinty
by lands furvi-ved for Robert Wil
fiains, William Skinner, benjamin Lodgf and
athers.
A (jcrtaiii oaher ffitS, surveyed in th; name
as Ro\»ert Williams, contaimng folir hunftrdd
»nd two acres and a half and artowatitfe &c. fitu
»ted on the waters of Stony creek, in Stony
;re_ek tpwnihip, i" the county aforefaid, and
hounded by lands ifyrveyed for Jacob Ziglar,
ftii h'atd Wii'iams, Saruiitl Adams Aid others.
A certain .ither fra'iTl, surveyed in the name
if JjmtiS JohiVfon, containWg tfttfi hundrid
and ninety-five acres and allowance &c. fitnttid
ia bctft fides of the fate rosd, on the waters of
Stony creek, m SttWy Creek toyVriftip, in the
iountv aforefaid, and bounded by lands surveyed
for Alexander Jphnfojii Joftph Engle, Conrad
ana others.
A certain other trail, surveyed iri the name
of Alexander Jottnfdn, corttainirig fntrr huttdred
and fii»e acres arid a half and al!ts\#ancfr &c 3 fitcf
»ted on the waters of Stotiy creek, irr 3timy
creek township, in the county aforefaid, and
bounded by la.ids surveyed for John Lombard,
James Johnfort, Joseph Engle and Others.
A certain Other trail, surveyed in the name
of John JohnfoT), containing soils nitndred and
eight acrtfs and three quarters and allowance
&c. lituated on the waters df Sttmy dfe?!t, iri
Stony «reek towafhip, in the eotiuty aforefaid,
and bounded by lands surveyed for Robert Tuclc
neft, John Shoemaker, Mathias Baker rod
ethdfs.
A certa'm ofhtt trail, surveyed in (lie name
of Wiiliam Campbell, containing f&ui- htlridred
acr#s and a quarter and allow
ance ic. lituated adjoining Jones's road, ii}d a
ot> a larjfc run emptying into Laurel-hill creek,
otheryvife called the North Fork of Turkev-fort,
•11 Will ford tnwnlhip, in the county aforefaid,
and bounded by lands surveyed for Joseph Bark
er, Gofiet, Benj iifiin Rulsle and others.
A terrain other traii fwrveyed ill the name of
Betfcy Gal'jreath.contttiiiing three hundred & nine
ty nine acrts and one quarter mnj allowance, &c.
fituateil on Roaring ron, n small br.mch of Laurel
Hill creek, in Milford townfuip, in the ceunty a
foref ii I, and boundsdhy lands furvt'yej for John
Driver,Mti£s3 i 3 ir>er, J*fe«K Barker a:i\l orhcrs.
A certain other trail surveyed in the name ef
Joseph Barker, containing four hundred aud three
acres and One quarter and allowance, &c. CtuateJ
on a large run emptying into I.aurel Hill creek a
bout a mile above ilia fails, in Milford toyvnthip, in
fl»s county afoVefhid, and bounded by lands sur
veyed for KhthiasGoffett, William Campbell, Bet
ley Galbreath and others.
A certain other trail surveyed ia the name of
Janies Cifluj, containing four hundred and one a
cres and one quarter and allowance, &c. situated
on Jones's Mill run, a branch of Lajtrsl HiJJ creek,
in Milfard townlhip, in the county aforefaid, and
bounded by i.mds surveyed for Abert M'Connel,
oha Hondall, Benjimin Bankfen n nd others.
PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY E7SN*P*3, %iSVART t, i>ss.
A certain other trail surveyed rr. the name of .
Mary Gifbreath, containing four hundred an.i |
one acres and allowance, See. (United on Jones'. |
mid rtr.t, a branch of Laurel HiTlcTeek, 3t Mil
\ )ord township, in the couaty aforefaid, and bepur
1 de Jby lands surveyed for Gabriel Heiltsi',
I Ciffna, James Can>pb<il and others.
A certain other trail f-irveyed in the name of
I- cootain. : : g 1-it-r frumii *"d and
i-WIIUJ tllrcc ucrt« and one qc.j-ter snd allowince,
; '4cc. fitunted on the l,««S waters of Jflavor's Mill
> ran, and on both fidei of thenlidJV road, port in
I Milford and part in iomerfft townlhipin the Cttftn
> ty aforefaid, a'nd bounded by lands surveyed for
■ Thcedore Nfertaimgtsr, Wilfiiin Sheafr, John Scott
■ and others.
• A certain' other trail surveyed in the rur.eof
John Scots, containing foUr hundred and three a
crcs and threa quirt-rs and allowance, &c. lituat
, ed on the head waters of Shaver's mill run, in So
trteffettoWnfhlp and Soriierfet county, bte Miiford
j townftnp, Budtord cdilfity, attd bonridfd I>y lands
surveyed for William She iff, Jtmts Campbell,
- Willia-n Scot* and other?.
, A certain other tradl, surveyed in the name nf
l Williath3cbit, containing three Uunjied and
1 ty-fiWacr«% mid One quarter, atid allflViiici, S(.c.
• fittiated on a ferrje tub, faito Laurel Hill
Creek, about a mile afcove the miifdle rdad, p So
: mcrfet township, Somerset county, late Mififnri
' totoriSiip, Bedford coonty.and bounded tjy iadds
s surveyed for Ifabelli Gal reat'h, William Co'ites,
Robert IWSrrth, and others.
' A certain scbei trail, filiveyed trt tlft aadie of Sa
muel HageTraau, conlaioirg four hncdred and rhir
' teen acres and allowance, See. lituated on both Gdes
' of the State road bti the waters of Stony creek in Stoi
ny tofcnSiip, formerly Bedford, now SOihir
iii couitty and bounded by lands surveyed for Saftuel
Hillega«, Cornelius Barus, Jacob Siouqi and o:hers
X cert'lfn other trail surveyed in the name of fr*i
cis Vv'aiker, containing three ttflndrtd and hiiicty-iwo
acres and a half and allowance, &c. fltuatfd ca the
waters of the North Fork of Turkey Foot, near tbe
line between Mlfo+d and Turkey Foot iown®i|is,
Sotnerlet County hte B dford county aAd bbunaed by
the foregoing lar.dsare held by warran't of Survey,
Seized aud CaK'eh in exectftibri tlKe tfidp&ify of
Phißpßciliv.
William Nichols, MarjhaL
December tg ■.
FOR SALE, At
Wm. Young's Ssvk Store,
Ko. ii, Be*ond flreet, the coWieT of CfnAut tkrfet,
REPORT or the Comtnittee of thfc Moirfe 6f
I Repreftntatives'ofthe Dnited States, appoint
ed so prepare and report Articles of Impeathnlerit
agairift 1.1 AM BLOUNT, a Senator of the
tjrtited Stilus, inipeacfied of high crirnes arid triif
derttealibra, puTfua'rice of a rcfblirtitra ttf
the Hoafc of fcefrefrofitivete, a«thorii'iii£ tfte fttiid
Committee to fit during therecefi ofCbogrefs, dntl
inftruAir.g them " to and, by all lawfvil
" means, to discover the whole nature and extent
" of the dlfdliife ytfhireof the laid WiUidini Blount
" ftinds iiiipeSche.!, aid W&o 4W tfei tSrtlis Snd
" affioCiatestherein."
Printed by order of tht Hou/e ef Bxprtjent/tt 'rves.
Jjecwpbtr ao, r : , ,~4 .
Thomas Randall,
Ptt.ES2N rs his refpeils to his friends, and tht |
iri general, inform! thSih thik he his oitenisd
an Of&ce, Ithi&fimift, Ho. 88, 9pture (Ireet, for
thepurpdfeof iranfailing bulnreft m the line of
Commillion and Agency, cplletSlifig rShts and out
tt3n4*nS 'Jsania in tui}. p-i> qf jhe UcitaJ St»te«.—
He flatters hiriafelf, that frorii his long reCdpir.ee iri
tHis Country and a geftfcril ef it, hisleW
cicar will be fotind worthy tße hcWte of th<#%
may please to coifide to him the Management of
any of their concerns.
N- 6. Security given where
rithm'o^4
Landing this chiy,
Frem <in 56ir J th« fchtioner Two Frie'tidi, tfih
ifel Crawlfcy, Mister,
u pit ** d | Jamaica ROM,
FOR SALE BY
George Latimer Son.
Wyewhtr 9. ; . .
James isf Richard Smith,
TAKE thi; Rber'?y of infofrAing tlieir
and the pulilicj t)¥at tKcy htWe
(lore to No. 54, South Front Jlrect; ncit dwvr to Ed
watd Fox's Koom, where they have at
this time Tor late, a larg,L* aad general altoTttiieiit ©f
European tit Eajl India Goods,
Many of which are just imported in the Clothier,
William Penri, &a. Jtc.
Oil. iy. S
~ " NOW LANDING,
At Soli'th-ftreet Wliarf,
7he. Cargo of the Ship Coticord,
Captain Thompson, from Bitavia.
About 300 tons nriV quality Java Coffee (the
Whole be«n feleilid)
B*o tons Java Sugair, in canifldrS and bags
io legures of old Arrack
Nutmegs, Mace and Clones
FOR !ALE Br
PETER BLIGHT.
Who alfb ojferi For saie,
Jul! landed from (Tup Amity, from Jamaica,
jos hhds. Jamaica Su-ar, and
170 do. db. Ktim.
rtoVemher 23. d6w
trrif? t»AT 1?
by BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. }s, th< corner of Chefnut and Front streets,
A large quantity 6f Clocks and
Watches. Also, a geftdral alTottment of Tools,
Eiles'and Materials, cd»fifling"of Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hour brals pinions
and farge worlc; Bells, clock and watch Dials,
Springs, ftinds, Classes, Pu nice Stone, l?mery,
Aottftr. Stone, Cat Gut; bench, Hand and tail
Vices; Tarns, Pliers,Chains,Seals, K.eys, Sit. &c.
* # * Apprentices Wanted.
November ?. ffttutf
To be Sold,
The time of a Negro Boy,
About fifteen years of age, has seven years yet
to fcrye ; he is ah excellent hpafe fcrvaf.t, ad'ivs
and hrtithy. Enquire of the Printer.
December d-^y
A peii'on well acquainted with
th» theofy and prailieeof hoolt-Ueepirit;,wllohas!becri
many years!-nJ;aged in b'ltliireTsforhimfell'aridotliers,
would be glad to be employed, either" as an ageiit
or tailor ; or in polling boohs ; stating tinfettled
accounts ; or in executing any other kind of writ- I
in- j- n French nr En^i:h.
A ttote aidreffed to J. A. and left at this office, 1
will be pu.nlually attended to.
r.ovembtr 3c. 3a"vtf ('
J
Infurancc Coinpanv
O? THS Jp t-fcN~-.-A-i.VAWA.
r I 'HE Srockhilder- are bvr- by rotu: • j, ao
L EleiSiott f-r thirtejH'Jireiorw-o Jtrve fi
oneyrar, will bch-ld at th* co-Tu a-y's Oifice.o3
NV'tJiy, tli- ttekt, »i it
'- ,r . FISHER, 0.-rry.
Decern bT ; » , dtjittij
Office of the lniuranee Company
OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN confequenrfr ®f an application from a number
of Proprietors as Stock, made agreeably to the
a-S of incorporation, a general meeting «f tie
Stockholders is particularly on Wcdnif
day, the _-jd January neSt, at no'dock, at the
Office of the Company
SAM. W. FISHER, Sec'ry.
December a 6. dtjdJ
Insurance Company of North
America.
PHE Stockholders are hereby informed, that a
dated meeting of the Company will be held at
their office on the ninth day of January next (be
ing the fecondTtlefday th the month) for the Elec
tion of twenty-five Direitors for the ensuing year.
E&EN. HAZARD, Sec'ry.
December 1 a. tbStrntotiil
Philadelphiaand LancafterT urn-
Company.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that the
annual EfcAiota for G fficers for the eiifuinj
yeir/iviil be held at the Coir pany's Office uiPhila
dclphiij on the ftcoh-d Moo-iay in January next, at
10 o\"*.ck, a. m. \V>i. GOVETT, Sec'ry.
7. ats mS:wt7j
PennfyJvailia Population Com
pany. " "
THE Shareholders are hcrt-1 tbst an
El'.wion of Officers tor th# cin'r ;g year, will be
held at the Company's office, no. J3, north Fourth
flreet, on Wednesday, the 10th day of January
next, at 12 o'clock.
2y order oi the Brard,
SOL. MARACHE, Sec*ry.
December 16 eodticthj
Tin Plates,
FOR SALE BY
SIMON WALKER,
Pine, Bear Fifth ftteet.
December 28. iw
A House in Burlington for Sale.
THE fuhferiber has a large, convenient two
ftory brick House, with Stables, Carriage
houfe, and a well improved Garden, in the City
of Burlington, New-Jersey, which he wiflies to
sell. For terms apply at No. 5, South Fourth
ftrcet, to GEORGE WALKER,
IVho has also for Sale,
Lots in Washington City,
Contiguous to the Capitol and to tbe principal
harbour.
December 29. eo7t
FOR SJLE, ~
By JOHN MILLER, jun. {* Co.
No. 8, Chelnut-flreet,
One hundred and eighty bales
BENGAL GOODS,
Amongfi which are,
Gurrahs Mamoodies
Baftas Sannas
•Guzzenahs Tanda Cofiaes
Guzzies Emertics
Blue Cloths Ca^coes
Palampoors Romall Handkei chiefs
Amongii them are a great proportion of the
nianufadures of Patna. i
December I. §
JUST RECEIVED,
(via New-York)
and now opening, by
, George Dobson,
No. %}, fauth Third (ireet,
An extensive and general afTortment of
HABERDASHERY, ▼iz.
Bed London miit Pins Oiitoons and Ferrets
Common do. do. Wdflftd Bindings,-affor-
ted colours
vihite chapel Ntedles Imperial, diaper,, and
Nuns Thread Ad. &to Thread,Tafes
40, rtgularly aUbrted White Edgings
I jfle do. no. 130 to 560, Black, nd Coloured Chi
regularly aiTorted ncfe Ribbands
Coloured do. Saftin and.figurcd do.
Blarck feWlftg Silfes Black Velvet, i-4toi2d
Orttbred du. andTwift Velvet & peioa Sattipe
Silk and cotton Wires French Gam-brick
Do. do. Ribbands Scotch do.
hhirt Moalds and Wires Pfajn gilt and plated
Black brulh Fearhe-rs ' Buttons
And a coiiftpleat afTortment of Gaods, fyitable
to the pMent and approaching feafdri, ii reduc.-d
F rjce ' ■ pec. 6. dtf
Frefii RaifinS.
A Small cargo, jnft arrived, and now landing
at Chefnut ilreet wharf, from the sloop Va
ried, Ca'pt. Halkell, confiding of Kee«, Boxes and
Jars. A few Jars df excellent Grapes, and' racks
of foft (heHed Almohds; Apply to thi IVfafldt
on board, dr to
Jos. Anthony Co.
December 19
Pbilip Nicklin Sf Co. _
have for sal ii,
At their Stores oh WatnUt flreet Wharf,
Havannah Sugars, whiteandbrccvn
*5 hhds. JUmaiica do.
joco pieces of broad Nankedns
Imperial Tea, in quarters and eighths of cjiefts
Quicfcfilvcr in tubs
Madeira Wine in pipes and hoglheads
rciiCTiif* Wine in pi
Old led I'ort Wiie in bdffheadi
SaiJ Canvafj, affbrted, Nb. I to 2
I 8 cases of Manchefkr Goods', confiftine; of Dimitioo,
100 crates Queens' Ware, afforWd
Nails, aifcrtol
Black quart Bottles
Yellow Ocra in cais
A quantity of writing Slates, slate Ink Stands, Sc.
ico quarter calks Gun Powder
tht v Wc also fir SAf.E or CHARTER,
Tbejhip MOLLY, ourthen 34.0 tons, a
good reffei, and completely fitted.
The brig AMAZON, burthen 1300 bar
rels, may be realty lor fta in a few days.
The whole of the above vf(lets to be fern at
Walnut ilreet Wliarf. § nrn.lQ.
Employment for the Poor.
FLAX roil SPINNfXG,
To begivcit out tv-ry !e*a»d, fmrtii, and fisth
day itorhiflm, tet«e«r the i-oufs - t 111 11 —
back or*<K S i, foiitk l ifth Ufwt, J»o*9^pnice-
All^Pcrfons
Having any demand agamK the Estate of the
late Captain Oi«n;c lrwiu, are reqntfleU to
; bring in their i. co'inls properly attested, eti or
I before the firft day of January next tnfbinjj
• j and those who'are indebted to laid eitate are so
lieited to make immediate payment to
S»HAH -iitWlN, Administratrix.
, "of. z9 1797. i
The Strbicriber inttndi to snake
for i-bc leuewa! of a Certificate oT« 6harc
in the Bank ut the United States, (landing i'i the imine
ofA .B. No.£oo'4», dated July n, 1797, the Tame
haviftgbeen lolt. JOHM GK^liaM.
Richmond, D<c. 1.
Ross as simsonT"
HAVE FOR SALE, N
A few bates Baftas, CoHas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
JiAiaica, '
St. Vinceia'M, ( Ruid.
and Bengal j
300 caiks RICE, i»d
' parcel of (hip building RED CEDa'R.
oa. i-. . \ $
Chocolate and Mustard,
of a fupeiiftr tfua'ity tnanufdffm ed,
INGER and Pepjier. giound ; fuelled or
v_T'pearl Rdrley ; T'hiladelphii Porter, Bef,
Alt and Cyfier ; Tauinoii Hur'cjl JUc-»-
I.en !<hi Purter ; red, l*«)rt and I.ilbon Wins,
It ir able far exportation or home confaWipttofv.
The highest piice given so Mustard-Seed.
Also fop file, A quantity of Bocking and
common tiaizn, a variety of colors ; a bale of
J?ullians, Shawls, &c, for Vale by
JOHN HA WORTH,
No. 98, fotfth Front-street,
no-v. 27. ra.&th.t.ij.
Imported (via New York) oh the
Clip Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, dnd for
sale hy the fubferiber, at No. 6r, Chefnut flreet,
between Second and Third Streets, the follow
ing articles .
Maharagonges Charconna Dorsns
Chintz and Calicoes Dacca worked mullins
Gillis Romals Bandannoes
Nillas & Penfiafoes Chafla Romals
Blue cloth Hair ribbon
MullMiUthankerchiefs palenvpores
Patna do. Banarcs Opium
Lesser Cardimum Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox.
November 37 tuths4w
To Gentlemen who intend /pending
the Winter in the City.
ROOMS so LET,
WITH or without Board—at No. 114; corntr
of Sixth and Race Streets. The fituatiort
agreeable—and vicinity has be«n free from the laic
contagion. Qd, *?.—-dtf
NOTICE.
To holders of JAMES GREEN LEAF'S
cind EDWARD FOX's Engagements
IN consequence of many having been prevent
ed, from late unavoidable trWV:itiiiancesfro'm
obtaining their Certi6cates, agreeable to former
The Trufiees now inform them, they
are ready to iflue She fame to those who rnay ap
ply within fixtydays, at No. 8 Cbefntif Stfeef,
awd those who do not, will be cohfidercd as re
li.nqu:fhing their claim on the Segregate. Fund
provided for their oaymeuti
HF.NRY PRATT,
/O'flU ASH LEV,
JACepS B'Alffift;
December xj. rfAbt
Fof Safi by trfi6 Subicriber^
Prime Rjce m whole and half tierces 0
Bour A'eCtux brandy
Tenei iPe Wine
Motdffes
Georgia end -Garoliurt IMigt
Ravens Duci and one hog/head of paiil
brushes.
N, (S* J. Frdzer.
Nt. $5, Santh Front Street.
. dim :
MUSIC.
J L. LENZi
R Teacher ot Vocal and indruriental Miific,
KTI/RNS hisfincere thanks ty the Ladies and
. Gedtlefrten, from whom he received a very
KWralincouiigemetlt Aiide his fefidence in tbis ci- .
ty, and refpe&fully informs hlsfrtends and tlib pub
lic generally, that, in consequence Of the I'equeft
of fone of his friends, he lias opened a Musical
Sciibol at hishbufa in Spruce Street No 174, where \
he will tdat-h oh the Piano forte, Violin &c. &c
He ddent's it unneeeffafy to upoA the ad
vantages the learner Will derive from an inffituti
|on of this kind; he fay, that attention
and zeal are much excited in an a(f«mbly, wltere
numl.ei-s are in pursuit of the fame objed. His !
arrangement is fneb, that an iu'terference of the
the different sexes will he avoided. Those Ladies
ind'Genttemcn Who cannot make it convenient to
attend it his school, he will, wait upon at their
houses. Applications will be thankfully receiv
ed at his houfc, whtre his'terms and further parti- '
culaVs'may be known. >
D 7. *Tweod
Alphabetical Lift of Duties,
Payable by law on all Gpods, Wares, and Mer
chandize, imported into the United States latafl
edition, to lie fdld by JOHN OR.VtROD, no. 41,
Chefnut:ftreet. Dec. iO—d
STOI. F. N .
Oat of the fubferibet-'s office a largeUue |
clbthe/gai,\iz\( worn. The inside of the Collar 1
is faced partly With scarlet velvet and partly !
with scarlet cldth, and it has a diver hook
and chain as a fafteniing. A suitable reward
will be paid for reltoring it. 1
WILLIAM MEREDITH
No. fit South jd Street.
Dec. 16. dtw .
rvo'.vms xnr. -
w
1 WU o *.X«
w
TO BE LET,
And poison given tUe ift far.uary.
The Houie Jiq. 107, Arch-ftrect,
h NMr tljo corner of Tfitra .urrcc.—Fc<r lurth;r
_ ;rtrticnTa:». as above, or « N'o. gS, Vin<
Sifcct.
Deeaytber 17 4ii
To be Vald,
e A N Kt.£GA>*f COUNTRY SEAT, contain
o C\ icg6 atrrs and 40 bercfcl's, U(i(h a neat two
■r ftoty brick Houfc shd Kitchen thcreoh, an apple
2; Orchard, &c. liruatc on tie IHfli traft lane, in the
0 townUlip of KJVyimerilirtg, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further portiixlaft will
be made known upon application at the office of
the Pbilndelplu* Gliette.
- : The improvements upon tfcit place, for taste and
- clegaonfc, itand unrivalled.
e December 1. dtf
Hyson and Young Hyson Tea.
n I'ewcheiisof excellent quality, For Side, tor
' htr of Scconi and Ipin« ftieets.
-1 tieledt Subscription Balls.
[ NEIV ASSEMBLY ROOM,
Stitlth Fourth firee't, between C'hcfnut an J Walnut
iirictt.
JfR.FK.AI'JCIS rfrpeilfullj informs the foMtyi
-V i_ !;crs to ths it/oV. Sails, that tkefirlt will be
on Tuesday, the id of January, r 79*8.
\ few name* to th£ t>ek<ft Sufcfcriplibn EalU
*11: be adniitted, b'y ipplkaticr. toillr.Fratocii.'no.
70, tipkrh street
Tcfm» ol {\lbflription—each futfiriber to nay
FiTs Dollars, which entitles Mm to a Gentleman's
1 Ticket, and cards of adnlillio(i for two Ladle?, to
eac;h at the four Balls—The Baßs to be held *very
r othtr Yucfday.
> Ihe nurubc. ef fubferibers to be limited to forty.
■ flrtttfi, will Tie ready for delirerjr
. on Suturiiy the 30th inft.
» Mr. France s days of teaching for his young
pupils i re Thnrftiays and Satuidays from 3 o'clock
1 in the alternoon till 6, and from 6 till 9 for thole
f 61 a mort advanced age. I'rivate tuition either at
the AtT"en,ib]y Room, or at his Koufe No. 70
tio £}. Eight Street.
N. B. Due notice will be given of Mr. Francis's
second PraiHifing Sail.
Dec. 26. dt2dj
: NOW LANDING,
r Froni on board the (hip Farmer, lying at Harder*!
Wharf„
Claret in hhds.
Ditto ih cases
s Sauterne Wine ill do.
For Sale, apply to
John White/ides & Co.
No. 138, Market-street.
Also, on hand,
Bourdeaux Brandy iB pipes
Fine old Antigua Rum
A few cales of Claret, of a Superior quality
nevenaber«. §
I* Knglilh Grammar,
The second editiin, luili i/tiprovemnks,
ADAPTED to the different classes of learners;
with an appendix, containing rules and o&-
fervatiohs for alibiing the pior? advanced students
r to writs with perfpicuky and Accuracy,
1 By LINBLEY MURRAY.
E " This is a publication of much merit, arid fuljy
anfwets the profeffiohs in the Title.
dix contains some of the bell rules for writing e
legantly, and with propriety, that tve retolleA to
ha»e seen. 1 '
r Monthly Review, July 1796.
" 1 l.it Gratfltnir fs, on many accounts entitled
to commendatory notice, its mateiiiU hare been
" carel ully and judiciously feleited ; its arjaiigetotnt
! Is dillinfl and well Adapted to the purp..<i of, in.
(IrutStiori and its expression is limple, pcrfpicuoua
and accurate, &c t "
See the character at large in the jinalytital
< Re-vieiu, July 1796.
| Englifli Exercises,
Adapted to the Grammar lately published by
Murray, consisting of exemplification of
the parts of speech, inftan<;csof salsa orthography,
vidlati'ons of thfe rules of fyncax, in punc
tuation, a lid ViiMidHji of tVj'e rblts
perfpicuiJy ahd atUricy, .tefrjjncd f*r the benefic
ef jsi iy?lc le«tntTs, as Bellas lor thmfe of fchboli.
" We have been much pltafed with the petufaf
6f these Exercises. Tjhey eccuny with diftinain'Oi
of thd Knglilh ibd as such, we ctfn
warmly rcccmnteild tHeih to the Teachers of
Schools, as weliss to All tbofe Who «re dtfirous of
attaining cijrreanefe and preciflon in their native
j tongne."
Monthly Review, Jnly ijqy.
The abrtve Boots are frfr fele at Josn-a it James
CR'utIHANKs book (Tore, No. 87, WTarket ftrfct
Ptcqoibtr 1. 3UW2W.
Sa;le, by the PackageT"
For ciftl, Of gobd nrtfes at sixty or riinetydayi,
Book and Jaeohef Munihi plain
stripes, andChftks f . 1
do. do. 'J ]> "'' or ' e d in
do. Ladies handkerchief!, & | J j4c kages.
gentfemen'e ntck do. J
jaconet chintz mbfliii for home anil the Wipft
India market, Pullicote and liuen handkfrchiefs,
■ for do. do pointed do. do. cortindii purple and
rfiinta (hawlj.
The above goods entitled to drawback on ex
portation. iVlfo a few fcotcii cambricks and an
anbrtment of muslin by the piece.
The wWe of the above being a confinement
ffbtli the rtianufa<9urers in Britain. *
To be feed at WnLuii. 6tAcicao4rf'»
Offli#, No. 64, South Second Street.
N(,v - 6 - iavtf.
This Day is Publi/hed,
BY Mc(T. Dobrdn. Carey, Campbell, Kic ana the
Bookf^llers,
Price Oni Do.ia'r and twenty-fivecent*, v
Elefdnt'y printed on iVoVe paper, and Hit
freffeii
. ißy John
A ViEWOF
The Conftitut ions
Of the feve?»l States with esdi other, and v,itfc
that of (She United State*: exhibrtfiig in 'i'at'es
th.-- prominent feature, of taeh Conffitmion, and
clal'irg together their most important
under the fevexal Jieads of administration • with
Ndtes Snd Qbfervations.
By WILL [AM SMITH,
Of Soulh-Cjmtinz,
L L. D. and member of thi Congress of the
UnitedSt:ites.
Dedicated to tha People of the United State..
N. B. A few Uapi s printed on an infenor ra
per, at 3-4thsof 4 ilollar. '- -• *v.. - ">• WVrt i ' -•' •
STATEMENT referred to in tiie second Letter of the " Friend to Laws and Freedom."
i A IVIVIIX.U IV 111 I lit KtUilU XJkklkl u
■O*. The advantages of Peace preferred to tic United States in account
i o loft arifin t > by the dejiruSion ot commerce now tllf- By t,
tut lied *nd interrupted : n
]ri the article of Labour, which now finds honest tin- (8
ploymetit and support. This being the i'ource of all By t
health, as Smith justly term* ir, " the inftrufflent of 4,55
commerce and measure cf value"—Say lo«-,coo men By t
at £.50 Pennsylvania currency per annum, for two gt
years ........ 130,000,000 By I
10 the difference in the value of rice, tobacco, wheat,
&c. raised, estimated at one half tjhe prel'ent value bjj
all exports, which for the fake of round numbers
take at tan millions of dollars - - . 3,750,000
To the enrreafed valitt of ueceflaries they purChase, fu- • By (
gar, coffee, &e. - - " • 6,5£0, cc Q pr
To the comfort anifatlsfaClion of enjoying it in peace, m
fathers anjl brothers with their/apiilies and friends, for By <
which each would give fometljing, average i,coe,Qpo th
willing contributions, a ac/'each, is ' £.i,edoj3o9 cn
To suppose so,cc» ufeWi men (bofjipg there is By' l
is not so many m the United States) without By t
proptrty, or industry to get any, and equally By 5
free families and friendlhip, who would an
rather t.y the field of mars than the cornfield 50,000 By t
Dedufl for them at fame rate - 950,000 By h
To double the lecorid year, tho' all the company fuppof- tn;
ed it would bear a much larger allowance, and that Bv p
mod people would give three, some five, and many ten By n
times as much the second year for " peace once more" 1,900,000 By r
To trade "k commerce nearly annihilated for twoyears( 1) B,cce,ooo By I;
To revenue diminished, to supply which refourec must By t
l>e had to direct taxation, fay a land tax —for the firft an
year ........ 900,000 lit
The second year ...... 1,500,000 By ii
To depreciation in the valiie of land throughout the Uni
ted State*, Which'will then cease to be considered "the By
afyltlm from European evils, 589,000,000 acres at 1 pe
cent only per acre, and which it might not for ages, in
perhaps, ever regain < li3*s»*jo th
To cell and dot-fit of to fail firft and second rate men of Byd
war, per treaty of alliance oftenfive and defenfive (1) <Joi
manned and victualled for twelve months, of which Of *
three ar£ soon after taken - - i«333>333 be'
To maintaining and paying seamen, victualing, &c. 2d
year. - - - - - 500,000
To cost of thirty frigates, sloops of war, critters, bOmbs
and fire (hips per treaty (1) of which fix are soon taken 1,560,000 By b
To maintaining, victualing and paymg second year 300,000 nat
To expence of enlisting, cloathing and paying 40,000 -wh
men (per treaty) twelve months, tf£-2? per man 10,000,000 ; nt ]
To mjintAining aadjpjying the second year, and replac- ]
ing the flam - - - - 8,000,000 p#
To 15,000 ton of Slipping to Jranfport 20,000 men
wherevfcr required by our aHie»(ptr tfeaty ) to be al- ' .
ways ready, manned, victualled and equipepd, a 20/
per ton per month for two years,"is - - 360,000
To ships loft by capture and wreck of the foregoing, to
he pa'd by the owners, suppose to per cent, on the va
lue of £.is per ton firft year - - - 22,500
To second year (as wars always grow mjre unfortunate
and expensive to all parties) encreaftd to - - 33i75'0
To pay and rations of militia - - - 500,000
To the lives of 30,000 citizens a each (3) 1.500,000
To maintaining with medical afliftance, the maimed,
lame, hurt, lick and blind of the army and navy two
years ...... 30,000
And for the reft of the lives of the survivors of them,
unless you leave them to perish when the war ends 150,000
To a scanty provision for the widows and children of
the brave, who may be Haiti - • - 50,000
To the waste and decay of farms, uteofils, rails, out
houses, &.C. from Georgia to New Hampshire, adjust
ed by the company on a calculation made by the mip,
population, &c. firft year .... 100,000
The second year .... 50,000
To impeded population .... 1,100,000
To negroes who would run away (4) 30,000 a 200
dollars each - - - * 1,500,000
To depreciation (5) of all the remainder, in consequence
of vagrant habits resulting from idleness, 674,280 -•
slaves in the United States (per census) a £.3 each,
the firft year .... 3»371.4«0
For the second year (6) as fettled by the company, «£.' 7
10/ - - » - - 11,799,900 '
To idle habits adopted generally throughout the country
for want of employ, agreed to be reasonably esti
mated at - - - - - !,000,000
To jail and work house expewcei to punish and reclaim
them - - -" - - 10,000
To immmorality and general licentiousness of all classes
and conditions of people, which it will require very
many years to cure - - - - 5,500,000
To the broken peace of private families, irreparably
injured thereby (7) fixed by the company, to clofethe
debate, a 1 1,000,000
To loss -«>t education to the youth of both sexes, the
talents of the men, for want of cultivation, forever
loft to their country, and the heightened joys which
improvement beflows on female society to reward
them, 500,000 a £• 175 each (tj - - 87,500,000
£-25 7,486,133
(I ) Here a controv»rfy began between a
young Weft-Indian (which I found him to
be) and the new New-England accountant,
the former in lifting that instead of this sum
it should be " the balance of trade" only ;
much ingenious reasoning was urged on both
fides and different authorities refered to ; at
length Smith's arguments were declared
conclusive, " that as two countries may
each benefit by the cash of their f pro
duce, the whole decrtafe in the annual amount
for which a valuable barter used to -be .re
ceived by either, was in such cafe to be
deemed an a&ual loss," and the sum of 8
millions was inserted accordingly.
( 2) Which all parties and countrymen
agreed mufl be made preparatory to the
United States engaging in war with any
European power, and that without agreeing
to furnifh such quotas no power would take
part with her unless after making her conve
nient, Pruflia-like perhaps to leave her in the
larch.
(3) A contest now arose about the value ;
the I *Jew-England-man who set a high value
on*th« service and labour of a free-man
maintained that " in Massachusetts they
would b« worth ,£IOO lawful at least," while
the young Islander insisted " they should
not be rated above The company
wishing to fee the account made out inter
posed and fixed it at £SO. as inserted* -
(4) Here an altercation recommenced—
the young Weft-Indian, though he said he
valued a negro at £ 100 fter. objected to
their being charged in the account at 200
dollars or about fter. obfcrving (un
guardedly) that " they would fete all idle in
cafe of war,, and therefore worth little or
nothing," which his cool opponent took
advantage of by adding to the number he
supposed would therefore run away, which
the company computed at 20,c00, and fix
ed the price at 200 dollars each.
(5) The Ealterh Accountant took anoth
er advantage of his adversary's remark, and
by consent of the company inserted this
item a3 a result as probable as any conjec
ture could well be.
(6) The gintlemen mentioned who were
■ now chief disputants as well as clerks diff
ered coniidernbly on this head, one wanting
icco:tvt cvrrttif, -withtkt prolelle if Warfort - cari. Ck.
By trade and commerce for one t,alt the mercantile Clip
ping of Great Britain to be taken ky privateeers,
£82,000 tons a 8 guineas per ton (9) - . £-5,73., ">
By their cargoes out or lif.me, in ballalt or trot, averaged
4.J5i vcfftliof tyt tons each, « £-3,006 per ship 13,659,000
By two fliips of 74 guns each, one of Ci, and one of 50
guns taken, a £ .1,000 per ton, ii 162,000
> By five frigates ofdifferent rates taken 130,^00
£.15,784,000 ft.
> Ss Pcnqfylviniacurrency, £-3»>973»3J3
By 60,000 men (enemies) to be killed, or destroyed in
> prison (10) ftiips, hospitals, climates, &c. in the fame ,
manner is our own, at 1-2 value to there ,£.1,500,000
By expence of their armament naval pnd military fgr
their support, by which their national .debt-wili-be en
creafed - . . . - ijo.ooe.rfoo
By their annual taxes encreafed { - • 2,000,000:
By the price of proviflons ditto . ,1,500,000
By 500 bankruptcies in Great Britain, causing poverty
and distress toas many innocent/amilies 500,000
By transports loft and paid for - - 100,000
1 By hospital expence* and provision for widows, orphans,
maimed, lame anddifahled, Tick and hurt 500, oop
Bv peace and quiet of families Jeftrcyed 2,850,000
By manufactures dimimfheit - 3,000,000
1 By revenue ditto * . . 2,500,000
1 By land and labor ditto - - . 1,000,000
By three Iflaods in the Weft Indies taken by the French,
and from which we shall be excluded except in a very
> limited degree at the peace - . 1,300,000
> By immorality and depravity, likely to continue as it is
(") £> 116,750,000
By education, the want of it i'r the lower orders of the
people favorable to monarchy and to that government
in particular as it ft now conducted—This item should
therefore appear on the other fide,
gy damage done theenemy, but which is much more than
(jjunter balanced by our own - £116,750,000
Of which this sum is not insured by the United States,
b e ing added to her enemies »■ 105,000,000
£.11,750,000
By balance, or loss the United States would sustain as a
nation by a War of only two years continuance, but
-which might not be ended in leven, fxclufivr of the
individual benefit to be derived as ab0ve£,32,973,333 224,512,800
Errors and Omissions excepted.
Pari', December 6, 1796.
A FRIEND TO LAWS k FREEDOM.
' ' ' kb-Sitf ".15... -.
.
.
1
.
:* ! J •" -■ ■
. . • ' '•r
---• Kb' ."!?%>■ y .
-i ;v: ; -
:
' r •
i r> t
; > < . '.. • ' ' " • \ * ;
. .> V > 4' f * i, • V,
■ ' )
' ■ - . - v r f.
.
•- - . \ iV. .. [■ #•' . - 1 ■ *
;v • ■ ii'. ~: <- - - ~"T r ;
■
.
.
. ' .
- *
■j. • - •
■ /
x '■ [ *
£.257,485,133
I
L *l. .1 . .1 .1 I.l'. 1 • ...
to multiply it by 5 while the other thought
double enough. The company considered
it«sjuftly to be dreaded and compromised it
bydividingthedifference, fixingitat 3* times
as much for the second year, though gene
rally they vfere of opinion that (laves would
scarce be worth keeping if war was to break
out and last two years.
(7) Thi3 sum it was mutually agreed
should be inserted, though the accountants
as well as every person present declared they
would " not for worlds"- their families should
be the unfortunate fufferers, and if such
should be the cafe, " if millions beyond ac
count would wash the stain and sting of its
remembrance away, they would chearfully
pay the penalty."
(8) Now commenced a debate equally
interesting and inftru&iv«, which I wish it
was in my power to do justice to. The fub
jeft afforded a fine field, and every gentle
man present delivered his sentiments upon
it. The importance of education to the
riling generation was universally confeffed to
be beyond computation—abbve all value :
Tts loss inevitable and beydnd the reach of
compensation or equivalent, either to the in
dividual or the nation. Its beneficial effe&s
were confide Ted not less serviceable to the
former than its tranfcendaiit influence on the
latter. It was called " the sun-shine of so
ciety," without which even the invaluable
blefTings of heaven born freedom itfelf could
not be rationally, fully or justly valued or
enjoyed. It was termed " the light of the
people," " the path to preferment," " the
road to virtuous emulation," " the morn
ing flar of human happiness." The cause
which introduced it was forgotten in con
templating the momeutou*~c»iifcqo«ne«? of
its' operation extending even beyond this
life!
I regret being unable to retrace or relate
the many well tenned comrotSts made up
on this fufcjett, which I find more difilcuk
as every thing >was spoken hi French.
A pause taking place, tiie accountants
wiflied to set down a sum, about which, the'
thev fully agreed in principle, they could
not coincide ss to particulars. The compa
ny having spoken with great earnestness and
very loud, at this moment, btoughp a boy
into the room to enquire " what was the
matter" ? Here it is fit to observe he was
a remarkable fine boy, of that open com
plexion of countenance which pleases every
eye ; his was full of intelligent cxprefiion
and ready comprehension—on being answer
ed " the gentlemen are talkng about the
! education of Children," he aflced " whose
children" ? and persisted to question till he
was fully informed about the fubjed of con
versation, Upon which pauiing for a few
minutes, he advanced through the compa
ny to the table, and looking the 'jentleman
who held the pen, full in the face, with an
emphasis and an eloquence of a surprising
description, for it was the pure untaught
perfusfive rhetoric of natures bounteous lib
erality, he said with a ligh, " / have no
money to pay a matter to teach me any
thing, and my father is <witk the army, (here
a tear just glistened in his eye, but did not
fall, he seemed to forbid it) but when he
comes home if he does not fend me to school
I will not love him as I do now ; though I
know he will—he writes to mndam L. and
calls me his darling boy, (here he smiled) but
how can he then buy what I ought to be
learning no<w ? Here all eyes and ears
were fixed towards him an old gentleman,
a ci-devant noble, was going to catch him
in his arms, but the boy evaded the attempt
and as he ran out of the room finifhed his
more than Ciceronian fpeeeh, faying (again
he sighed while seeming to suppress it) " If
I had a hundred louis d'ors I would give
them every one to be kept constantly at
school," adding with a fignificant nod,
"though T would play at times."
a diTpoution in eaily age, delights as it is
and irrtereft«as it is real.
The company uaanimoufly resolved to in
sert this sum in the account, and the old
gentleman observing " that a citizen who
devoted himfelf to the service of his coun
try in the day of danger and difficulty in the
humble station and capacity of a soldier,
Should have his chil educated by that
country, promised to take care of this boy
himfelf, while the company as if attouiflied
by the tongue of an angel engaged their ex
ertions to each other, in order to " eftat>li(h
aad provide for the univerLl education of
_» A
children" ; this I had afterwards the plca
fure to learn has been done—a system is di
gesting and will fpecdily be adopted (I hope
with more effeft than the present imperfeft
plan) throughout the republic.
(10) For the probability of this, the re
turns of 1783 were examined; by which
it appears the British Army alone in Ameri
ca, had 43,633 men rank and file killed,
exclusive' of officers !
(11) For thisitem, fee the King's speech
to Parliament, sth December, 1782, re
commending to tliem "to corrcft the pre
vailing vices of the times. " See also New
gate Calendar at the close of the war (before
cited.),
The reft of the account was dated by
the old Pgentlemaa and agreed to by the
company, btipg placed as you fee rr'w the
outer column • on "the effe£l of
( increase of debts" and " the operation of
circumstances lo influential on a people,"
several judicious 'observations were
but it was not considered by any one of
company as likely to produce a rcftitution
or reparation of the damages ! on the con
trary it was thought " so much diiirefs
lieap'd upon the people would disable or at
lead ill dispose them to submit to additional
aad heavy taxes for the purpose of paying
us," " that an appeal to arms has ever been
looked upon as the fatisfa&ion demanded or
taken for compensation of wrongs and no
other redress after that is begun can ever be
expe&ed j" that jujl compensation would
then require the full payment of all expences
incident to the war at •well of the sum which
gavecaufe to it, amounting to more perhaps
than all the specie in circulation throughout
the world" ! ! ! in the nature of things im
pofiible under any circumstances however
fortunate or favorable to expeft " the very
method of seeking redress being so expen
sive as to cause an absolute prohibition to
obtaining it." ! ! ! '
( 1 ) The general particulars of the debit
fide being ended, an elderly gentleman
(whom I found had been an officer under
thcroyal government, and -po/Teding a very
considerable estate) took up' the pen and
with a very fatisfied smile observed to the
one who had juil laijd it down, " now fir,
we (hall fee the other fide of this account
which in importance I expeft will be tho't
to over-balance the account you exhibit."
In the firft place (looking round to the
company as if he expedled an universal ac
quiefence in his opinions) " it must be ob
served that national honor (laying great
stress on the words national honor and ex
pressing them with the air of a soldier) re
quires that injariiis unprovoked and such as
have been done to the United States, (hould
be resented with that prompt spirit and vi
gor which the country has already (hewn it
felf to pofTefs. Was this country (France)
so insulted, there is not one of the Ancient
Regime (I cannot render thisexpreffion in
to our language, and preserve its force), but
would willingly facrifice one half their pro
perty, to obtain fatisfaftioD, as an individu
al, sooner than fit tamely quiet underTuch
unpardonable insults. I would rather fuffer
every evil, even of an unfortunate war, the
death of half my tenants, and the loss of half
my rents " Here he was interrupted by a
nother French gentleman abruptly observ
ing that " his iocojne as well as that of the
great class of independent and indullrious
citizens of France, would not admit of
such a facrifice ; those who have little more
than life to give (though they justly prize
and preserve their own honor) might not
think proper to facrifice it to the opinion of
others, that the national honor required that
they Ihould?" The old officer kerned equal
ly displeased at the interruption and the
observation, but proceeded by remarking,
" that merchants farmers and mechanics
might be content under such circumstances,
but to the ideas of a soldier it was diftrefT
ing."—The company were, however, unan
imous in declaring that "as no fpecific va
lue could be set upon it in a national ac
count, the item was inadmissible, whereupon
he proceeded—" The records of the United
States inform us how mujl mifchief (he
coul4 do to the trade of Great Britain-
Mr. Coxe (page 346) tells us that three
counties (only) in the (late of Maflachufetts
t®ok during the latt war 1108 vcffels and
cargoes out of6ai9 fail, the entire mercan
tile (hipping of that country J propose
then to meet the gentleman in his political
aecount current, by entering on the oppo- J
site fide to that he has filled up, the value
of said (hips and cargoes. Here he paused
as if to confidcr on the sum or rate, but it
was observed " that was in a war of ftven t
years, the account was intended for an efti
. mate of only two." The old gentleman
resuming, observed in reply, " that the fa-
perior ability of the United States at present /
to what it was during the revolution, would
admit a mode of calculation not likely to be >
very far from the probable event ef such an
occurence." Mi. Reeves (in his law of /
(hipping, page 433) dates the whole mer
cantile (hipping of Great Britain to be '
1,365,000 tons which he estimates at 8
guineas per ton.
this the old (JSicer observed he " had no
doubt the United States would in two years
take one half " which btiug aequiefced in
by the company, was entered in the account
accordingly, as well as the eftiinated value
of their cargoes, and also o: the men of war
and frigates, which from the confidence of '
fafcty will he observed " be certainly tak
en, being opposed by men and (hips of •
their own way of fighting.""
(1 ) Smith vol. 2 d page 304. "jAhin-f
ftrudicd and intelligent peop'e arc always 1
more decent and orderly than an ignorant and 1
ltupid one," tlley feel themfelveseach indi
vidually more r L fpe6lable and more likely to '
obtain the refpetf of thsi'r lawful ftVperiors, | I
and they are therefore more disposed-tores- /
ptdi those superiors, they are more dilpofed , 1
to examine and more capable of feeing tlmj' j
the interfiled (or dcfigm'ng) complaints of ,
(.lilion and feditiou, and tipun that /
account,lefs likely to b" led wte ahy wan- ,
a- ton or unaeceffary oppofit; on to the
[i- lures of government.
» i a r'r ° fthewholeacc ° u "t'ook
a place, by which it appeared to the comna
"!r ", , nb , V ' d f ucce f'f"l war of two years
e- individual citizen* might get about/, 2 000
:h 000 Pennsylvania, or 85 millions' of dollaw
i- \aprizes, be acquired solely by
3, the ct. ies and trading towns, while the entiVe
landed interest would fuffer doubly_; n t j, e
h depreciated value of what was raised and the
e- appreciated value of every necefTary import
e- ed; and that the United States as a nation
v- would unavoidably incur a debt of at lead
re an equal sum (as the items will explain)
which at 6 per cent, only (2 ) is 5,120,000
iy dollars per annum, to be borne by the whole
le country forever after, besides all the ot»> "
5* inconveniences, lofles and distresses e
n rated, amounting or equal to 225 n
)f of pounds Pennsylvania, or 600,000,
' dollars more ! the whole weight of wh
'ij point of retarded property the country v
a inevitably feel at compound intert
a That the lodes by illegal captures
1- seizures alledged of American vefi
fs and property (sometimes blended wi
it that of the enemies of the captors
il in five years, that is, since the corn
er menctment of hoftijities in Europe, does not
n amount to t h e whole
ir of which it is now very probable will beTe
o covered (jirft exceptions only excluded (3)
e as consulting futurity, it is evident equally
d the interest of Great-Britain France and
's Spain to render jullice and maintain a good
b understanding with the United States, and
s that under their present peaceful,flourilhing
t and happy situation, the Union fliould re
-- compence the fufferers rather than hazard
r the forfeiture of so enviable a position.
y The old officer and one Am«rican gen
- tleman dwelt much on » what Great-Bri
-0 tain intended to have done if not prevented
by the balsam of Toulon et cetera ; upon the
t distress a war with the United States would
n bring upon England ; and what we could.
do there : but fortunately placed at a great
P distance from the scene where the balance of
J power is so much the fubjeft of contcft and
e with which -u>e have nothing to do and that
they ought not to go to war for honor.'*
t (4) Fifteen out of seventeen pcrfons pre
t sent, " approved of the flatement, and the ex-
J emplary ivifdom, piety-, firmnefs and patriot
e ism uy which the proof of its contents are so
fortunatelypoflponed. iS'i
(2) Which it was agreed to rate it at,
t tho fatistied it would colt the country a
bove ten per cent.
(3 ) See how admiralty cases are deter
s in the superior courts of jaftice in Eu
j rope. Poftlethwaite's Did. vol. 2d page
715, and sequel.
(4) Poor soldier, " So Pat you got that
\ broken head for honor and there you lay
t bleeding in all your glory."
FalftafF, " There lies honor" pointing to
t the carcase.
PENNSYLVANIA LEGISLATURE
* House of Representatives
t f December 26.
Mr. Evans presented two petitions f'gned by
" a number of the citizens ofMontgomery Caur..
; <y praying that a new eleSion diflria may by
1 formed and that the place of holding the eleSion
p may be at Pottflown, which were read & re
ferred to the Members from the County.
~ Mr. Evans presented a petition from a num
; of the inhabitants of Montgomery County, re.
r faring to a firmer petition, and praying a sum
t °f mo " e y ma y le granted the:nfur the creOien of
a bridge over the Manatow ney creel, which
\ was read, and referred to a Committee of roads
and in land Navigation.
I Mr - Vanhorne presented a petition from the
Tr 'flees of the Academy at Newtow, inVucls
County, praying a sum of money for the endow
ment of the said Inflitution, which was read
and referred to a Committee.
Mr. Gurncj presented a petition from a num
ber of the owners of land on the Wffahiclin
road, praying a law may be pajed authorizing
the Governor to incorporate a Company to ere a
an artificial road which was read, and referred
to the Committee on the petition from the German
town.
Mr. Worrell presented a petition from the
Truflci s cf Lower Dublin Academy praying
leave to raise afujficient sum by way of lottery
to jimfh the buildings, which war read and re -
jerred to a Committee.
fir. Leib presented a petition from a number
of the citizens of Philadelphia County; praying
the Governor m y be authorized to incorporate
a Company to erett an artificial road to the
twelve mile flone on the Reading Road, f:mi
lar to several already offeredwhich was re
ferred to a Committee already appointed.
The. House resolved it/elf into a Committee of
the who e on a Bill to authorize Frederick
Leather his heirs and assigns to maintain c.
Dam across Bald Eagle creel in the County of
Mifflin Di Leib in the chair. After form
time fpmt the Committee rose and the Bill was
recommitted.
Mr. Herrbhill offered a refohi'.t*-n for the
continuance of the ail for •ncreafing the fe
laries of the Judges of the fuprtme Court, the
P rejldent of the tirenit courU and the Secretary
of the Commonwealth.
The report of the Committee on a tetition
from Mifflin Lour typrayngthe appointrnfht rf a
Trujfee 'w.is read a fecund time and agreed to
and a committee ryas appointed' to brin* in a
Bill.
The furlDer report of the committee en unfi'i
ifhed bujinfs was ria.la JixntuL timev and the
different Juijecis were.referred to committees.
Several purls cfthe report on thegovenor's
ad. Irefs which were poflponed, Tvere taken up
and referred.
Dr. Leib laid the following refolutioh on the
telle, Resolved that a committee be appointed to
' bring in a Id! cuthorifmg the commi/Jioners of
the county of Philadelphia to leep a record of the
; ro-ds within the said county. '
! The resolution offered by Mr. Hemphill was
cajled up for afeccnd reading ly Cf>e cut/order and
after ccnfid.-riiHf dihllt ~vas ''fTporteil till fvi
</.jv next. Adjourned.Derrmitr 1
A Pdili'ik from a numlrr of th*. <kUtui- of t«r
Ga mamtmun Vicinity of a fimi'.ar in- tf
port tviili theft prtfentedon Saturday lajl rtf- i*'
a t'jrnpih re id to Gerrr.on'own. tvas oft
ed to the committee alrxidy tk:
. ni
7 number of th: ei'izrns us vn
i K ih n . ' -iff in Northumberland coun- ly
•place of election may be in po
f, at "f ; ''~fburgb, -was prefenled and ap
,* 1 number of the citizens of th
iv. 1 ■>7 Lountypraying a latu to re- w(
■. is presented read 15 referred th
■•-'.a* h«
■u re a.' to authorise the Governor ad
"a/bier of the Bar.h of Penn- ril
n .ry public. " m
* -octidtd to rl>e rrpirt q£ the i«;
rules and regulations which 2
th the exception of the ninth
■ules, which'weft pojiponed
j'
1 r • conducing bu/inffs between
SOrii is taken up and agreed to ex
<■ " h which was pojlponed until ~
i'f'itL:. - 4j '• .|l
' Adjourned. ar
December 28. pi
0". I ' resented a memorial from tbt F
iciatis accompanied by fever d
—1 -jc so the health laws, and the di
■ •-./ e malignant fever, which was c<
r! <m _*> ed to the committee appointed ai t<
the health laws. S
Mr. IVells on the part of tbe committee te- la
ported a bill to authorize to Governor to incur- f;
porate a company to improve the navigation of o
the river Lehigh which was read and mide a:
the order of the day for Thursday next- tl
Mr. Frriiey on the part of the committee f,
reported a bill to alter certain election dfricls n
:n Ecrbs County which was read and made the tl
urder of the day for Tburfday fe'nnight. c
A bill from the Senate authorizing tie com- f (
niilfmners of IVeJlrnoreland county to ippoint u
assessors and ajji/lant ajfefforsfor the town/hips si
that have neglected to eleS them was nad and
made the order of the day for Saturday next. o
'the house resolved itfelf into a committee of I
the who.c on the till supplementary to the ad t
authorising the Governor to incorporate a com. t
peny far creating an artificial read from this
tity to I.ancajler son motion the committee n
rose and the bill was committed to a fleet com-
\mittee. ' Adjourned. a
From the ( N. T.) Daily Advert fer. p
" Perish our Commerce! Let the CONSTI
TUTION live !"
This exclamation of Mr. Wyndham's, in c
the Britifli Parliament, at the commence- (
ment of the present war with the French f
Republic, ha 6 been rung in a thousand j
changes by the jacobins of England and f
America. f
The orator, no doubt, that if the repeat- \
ed innovations pursued by the French, def- r
truftive .of every principle of good order r
and government, could be prevented from f
spreading their effefts into his native coun
try ; a partial facrifice of its comme ee by
t the war, would be comparatively of little
consequence.
He was moderate. Our " exclufivs" 1
patriots bnvc fo-£ar out done him in their t
views, that we hear no more of the " hor- '
rid exclamation.
They have not only repeatedly attempt- (
ed themselves, but permitted in others, a
violation of our own excellent constitution
—but have juftified the piracies on our com
merce by those who term themselves our
ALLIES ?
Looking, only,to the will of those Free-
Bobtets, they fay,
" Let our Conftitutidnand our commerce
<ro to the devil together!"
OBSERVER.
A VIRGINIA ELECTION.
Extract from the proceedings of the House rf
Delegates, December 8, 1797*
It appears to your eommittee, from the
informatiou of William Munford Esq. that
he was present at the ele&ion which was
commenced for the county of Pittfylvania,
and afted as a clerk of one of the polls y
that the e!e£tion was extremely crowded,
and the crowd very violent and disorderly ;
that they pressed on the fiieriff in such a man
ner, that he could not keep his stand within
the bar, and at length forced the clerks out
" of their fears, and fook possession nf the ta
ble ; that several persons appeared on the
table.and at the door in their shirt sleeves,
apparently prepared for combat ; that the
fheriff was very iuduftrious in endeavouring
to suppress the riot, and clear the court
house, ,so that he might proceed with the
ele&ion, and once or twice the house was
nearly cleared, and the votes again taken,
but that the diforderand violence at last was
so great, that the fheriff and his clerks were
compelled to retire from the court house ;
that the fheriff finding it impossible to pro
ceed with the election, was advised to close
the polls, and return the truth of the cafe ;
that many persons applied to the fheriff, de
siring to give their votes but the fheriff told
them he could not take their votes; and]
thereupon the fheriff, with the consent of
, the candidates, proclaimed at the door or
window, that the poll was closed, and that
Messrs. William Clarke and Robert Devin '
had a majority of the votes taken ; that the
informant could net fay who were the cause
rf those riotous proceedings, but thought
the candidates in general seemed rather to
encourage them, and that none of them took
proper steps to fuppref? them ; that applica
tion was made to the informant by Mr.
William Clarke, »ne of the candidates, to
continue to take the votes at a time when
the fheriff was out of the way, and had re
solved not to proceed with the election, to
which he replied, that he could no: proceed
to take a vote, until direfted by the fheriff
to do so ; that it was generally said that the
people were kept by force out of the court
house* by certain men polled at the door
for that purpose ; that th»fe tr.en enquired
<jf alj .vho came to the d v*. wSara they in- i tie,
tended to vote for, a:: ' " : they were ad- j arti
mitted or /extl'.ic'-. d accusingly, ai their an- ( gi«
f<rer pic a fed or displeased thofc who quelii- j te i
o#ed them, but that the informant knew no- of t
tiling of this, of his own knowledge ; yet I site:
lw has reason to believe it, as lit saw eertain j the
violent and disorderly men at the door, near- j for
ly (tripped for battle, who appeared to be los j
polled.there for that purpose. It further J the
appeared to the committee, from the infor- . for
mation of the said William Munford, that ' layi
the candidates agreed, that persons who j the
were <iii the militia lift, without regard to | ami
the distinCtion of the rightoffreehold, (hould ed
be permitted to vote, and that the persons j a'w
admitted to vote, were examined by the file- ble
riff only with refpeft to their being on the tht
militia lift, and not with refpe<S to their be- the
ing fr^cUulJc 1 ficil
1 ' " iJ , n n ■ w—p—mmmmm
%ijt ®a?ette. "I,
PHILADELPHIA, fc
MONDAY EVENING, JANUARY I. <'oi
the
Tbe question whether our merchants ftiall ing
arm their v<rffels for defence, or not, is post- of
poned by the House of Representatives to ifel
February. Ny
The opposition party opposed ao imme- anc
diate decision because they said it would be the
considered as lioftila to France, and as in- ma
terfering with the pending negociation— adi
Some of the Fcderalifts concurred in this fur
last opinion. But, thould the negociation fail
fail, there will no doubt remain as to the Vet
objeft of arming, viz. to defend ourselves the
against Franee. Will the anti-federalilts ftic
then consent to this measure ? No. The ot 1
friends of the merchants and the govern- qm
ment, do not appear to have been aware of fig
this. Tbe question ought to have been de- a (
eided at once on every principle ; for at pre- let
sent, no nation could reasonably have taken tin
umbrage at its being determined in tks as- foi
firmative. be
Opposition, by faying that the arming rei
of our merchants would be hoftilt* only to rel
France, give up the question whether our «o
trade fuffers most by France or Great-Bri- vi<
tain. » a g
Should the war cease to-morrow, the mi
measure of arming our merchantmen would th
be expedient, if not necefiary ; for piracy m;
and plundering would probably be pursued to
by the banditti in the Weft Indies till com- m<
pelled to relinquish the business by force. tc
ca
The crew of the John fafe. ti:
A letter was received in town on Satur- f u
day from capt. Folger of the John, dated 0 f
Greenwich, ( Jersey shore) 28th instant, in- Jy
forming that by the humane exertions of the _
people of that place, he with the remaining tr
part,of his crew and passengers, were pre- b<
ierved from deftruftion that morning—They tl
were got off from the ship in small batteaus. ti
The captain adds, that the ship was then ol
nearly full of water, but that he expedted to p,
save a part of the cargo. m
Aurora Candor and Truth.
There is a lift of American vessels pab
lifhed in the "Aurora of this morning at Cape
Nichola Mole on the Jth December, which
■ the Editor heads " British Captures — ft
whereas from the lift itfelf it appears they _
wtre all wating for convoy—only two of 0j
them had been captured, and those re-taken w
1 from the Ftench, and released on paying ti
i salvage. '
U
COMMUNICATION.
The measure of permitting a mercaatile
- armament, is opposed uponthe ground of its £
tendency to accelerate a rupture between
e the United States and France—lt is said
that our vessels thus armed by adling offen
lively may afford a just cause of war, or by
afting dtfenfively may furnifh a pretext for c
it. The firft cafe is hardly fuppofablc.—
f The captain of 3 merchantman armed and
fitted out in pursuit of a peaceful traffic, can
e have no inducement to commence an attack,
t- when he is not auth'orifed to capture, mere
;s ly for the fake of fighting. It will be fuffi
, cient to restrain him, that he would thus ia
j volve his owner and himfelf in a rs
l, fponfibility at home, and expose his person
; to the gibbet and his vessel to condemnation (
»- in the event of capture. If a few hairbrain
n ed commanders should prove exceptions to
it this general principle, their country would
1- disavow an authority for their conduct, and
ic would not be fairly chargeable with their
s, madness—The only question is then would
e this measure furnifh the French with a pre
g text for doing what they may already be in
-t clined to do ?—lt is indeed aftonilhing that
ie a man can be found in America at this day,
is who conceives that this nation requires an a
1, pologv- to do whatever their exigencies make
as convenient, or whatever will gratify the lust
re of conquest, and promote theinveterate pro
j jedlof univcrfal empire. To whom should
3- they be solicitous to juftify themselves ?
fe Not to the people of these states 5 for they
; mult be sensible that the affedtion? of all
e- honest men for their nation and cause are ir-
Id retrievably forfeited; and the few tools who
id | still adhere to them cannot be more blindly
jf or fervently devoted to 'their meafnres—Not
or to the nations of Europe, whose rights they
at violate, whose laws thev contemn, whose o
in pinions they deride. Some of whom are
ie subjugated beneath their iron roil; and all of
fe whohi are marked and numbered for con
ht quered provinces, or dependant vassals
to Bus admitting that an apology was deemed
k expedient, as the preamble to a manifeCto—
a- have they not found with a most ready and
ir. fatal invention, excuses for perpetrating e
to very fptcics of injustice at home and abroad,
en upon their own citizens and upon foreign
e- nations ? Examine the history of their con
to fifcations, proscriptions, maffaures, wars and
ed invsfions, and fsy if they have been puzzled
iff for reason* to juftify their putting into re •
he quifition all the property of such of their ci
rt tizens as are not concerned in the mummety
or of their government —h a?e they not ftole'i
:d under the fan&ion of law, plate, horses, c 1 * j
tle, furniture and cloaluing wherever thsfc 1
articles were found? Can they wantspolo- ;fe
gies to fuppoit their tremendous army, or {
to fate the appetites and supply the luxuries riv
of their deputies on million, and their-para- c«
sites and (trumpets, who form an dhny of j th
themfelvcs ? Where did they find apologies fei
for appropriating te their own use the riches ! m:
of Belgium, for exhmiftiitg the treasures of
the United Provinces ; for ravaging, Italy ;
for plundering Allies as well as Foes—for *
laying embargoes upon our vessels, taking
them as prizes, and facrifieing to an imroenfe
amount, cargoes fairly cor.ligned and enter- crl
ed in their port 3 ? Imperious nccefS'y has w . c
always enabled them to frame a very plauli- m<
ble " expvftion des motifs," at a period when ve
thtir resources were more abundant than P°
they now are Their commerce is at pre- Fr
sent annihilated, their fiuabces ntlteirly de- m<
1-ang.ed, and the conqueredjCßuntries drained I*
of the means of suppling their txa&ions. In
this posture of affairs, agriculture mull lau-
giiifli, and famine will always threaten and ""
sometimes overtake them.—Can it then be v ei
doubted, that when othjr resources fail, and tei
they fl;all be destitute of the ability of pay
ing forour cargoes ; despair will come in aid
of violence, and that they will make a man- ne
'ifefto of war againll us with as little ceremo- 110
ny as they issue an edicl " for putting boots I°'
and (hoes into requisition," or rather that Y e
they will ftize upon our property without a fei
manifefto, and leave it to their American w '
advocates to palliate and juftify their mea- th
fures? Whether negociation succeeds or le|
fails, we ought to be prepared for these e- w
vents —It is indeed difficult to comprehend bl
the precise idea attached'by so many, to the to
success of the negociation. Every fuepatri- f f
ot in and out of Congress, is ready to relin- a r
quifli coinpenfation for the pad, rather than
fight. Is success then deemed to consist in
a Stipulation for future indemnity ? If so, y<
let it be remembered, that we have already
the llipulationsof a fair and folemti treaty ol
for our proteftion. to protedl us, tc
because we have excrcifed theright of a fove- w
reign nation and made another treaty in no j n;
refpeft incompatible- with thV firft. Will l ir
"opt pretences equally plausible be found for jo;
violating a future treaty ? It ?s easy to im- jtl
agine a hundred. One half of the govern- jo
ment may fend th« other to Madagascar, and t'
those who remain may repeal the treaty, as ft
many of our Representatives were inclined si
to do by the Britifli Treaty. Our govern- n
ment may prohibit tbe fitting out of priva- I
leers in our ports, and Fmay restore vessels
captured in our jurifdi&ion. It may con
tinue to prevent the sale of prizes, and re- 1
fufe to obftrudt the decisions of our courts *
of law. These complaints have been solemn-
ly urged—They are not the worse for wear
.—They will answer as well after another c
treaty as they do at present; New ones may I
be manufa&ured at pleasure ; and at least, c
the apology of imperious necelfity will con- 3
tinue to be unanfwerablr. The Merchants c
ought therefore, to infill upon their right to '
protedl and defend themfelvcs, whatever '
may be the event of the negociation. '
For the Gaxetlc of the United States.
_ 1
Mr. Fenno, ]
The enemy of my signature and peaceful J
sentiments appears to have mistaken his own ]
—he should fubferihe himfelf " 7he Genius <
: oj Nonsense," his essays would then be read,
with applause, for like Goldsmith's Coun- '
try Schoolmaster it is said of him,
'• Ev'n in arguing the Parson owns his (kill
" For when tho' vanqu fh'd he can argue still."
I am his humble Servant,
A Friend to Laws and Freedom . j
s GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
1
1 PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
The following vessels have arrived at and
cleared from this port during the last year : !
Aiirived. Cleared.
' Ships 167 146
Snows Sc Brigs 326 291
Schooners 549 480
' Sloops 378 376
Total, 1420 1293
Of the above number of arrivals 620
were from foreign ports, and 800 coasters.
n Of the clearances 557 were of foreign ports,
and 736 coasters.
Vessels now in port.
' Ships , 89
r 86
, Schooners 74
Sloops 47
Pilate Boats') ...
and River Craft C r
it
•s
'' Total 41 1
I- .
Of this number 21 (hips, 22 brigs, 21
fchooßers and 20 (loops will be ready for
'* sea as soon as the navigation ope-ns.
N. B. In the above statement the vessels
~ detained by the ice are included.
J. American vessels measured in port last
year, 95
Foreign ditto do. do. 75
y Total 170
>t
y Vessels on the flocks at Kensington 11,
'* and 5 keels laid—l 6. In Southwark 3, and
e 1 keel laid— 4. Total 20.
3 ' Entered at New-York, &c. bound to this
port, 6 fiiips, 11 brigs, 4 schooners, and 1
~ (loop. Total 22.
•d
New-York, December 30.
id ItlllVtH DAYS
e- Brig Cunrier, Wilson, -Oonaives 32
J, Schr. Regulator Alien N. London 2
;n Sloop Betsey, Orfborn, Hifpaniola 20
n- Sloop John, that was blown off, is arriv
al ed at Newport.
:d Schr. Polly, J. Miller, from hence to the
e ■ Weft Cai«6s is cad away—Capt. and mate
i- drowned the 3d Nov.
ty The Neptune Stephenfon, is taken by a
cm Britiih privateer, and carried into Montfer
• « rat.
Brig Eliza, of thi# pwt, is taltea and pi.
fer.t into Gaudaloupe. j dr.
We are informed by a gentleman jn ft K- 1 gtJ
rived from Nantz; that 7J privateerj arc in jar
coramiffian «ut of that that duriag
the short time he was there, ten new v;P Us
frl« were launched for Corsairs; and, that I \vl
many rnore were on the flocks. - I T
——■ | pi
From the Columbian Centinel. I p r
Pslhieal truths—worthy attentive perufa!. [k f
Mr. R„frll, » L,
Amang the causes which Operate at this j p[
crisis of agitation throughout the civilized I t y
world, none possesses or has displayed aI w
more formidable energy to subvert civil go- I jj 0
vernment and social order, than that spirit of I p r
political fanaticifm which has given to the I ,j r
French revolution, half its chara&er and al- I j| c
most all its terrors.,. Of all evil spirits, it is j ny
perhaps the most intolerant, sanguinary and 1 r p
Hind. It hoafts of its liberality, becauf# it I cf j
abhors the power of priests and tyrants; and t h
indeed, all despotism but its own. It ne- I
ver ceases to extol its philant'uopy and fra- I nc
terriity, and its merit.iu asserting for men t j,
his imprescriptible rights, and as the bed of | an
thejtfi, his frredom of speech and tho't, yet I w
neither the ten perfections of Christians, I te
nor the records of the inquisition, furnilh so I t2
long a lift of vi&ims for opinion fake as three I
years of the French revolution. Theft: ob- J
fervations will afford the proof that is not |
wanted of the intolerance and ferocity of I
the political reformers. Their hlindnefsis no I
less remarkable; Gace in spite of experience, I P
which has written its lessons of refutation in j rt
blood, they labour (ti|l to raake proselytes I
to their anarchical theories, although they I
fee the fabric of feciety lhaken or subverted I
and the earth ft re wed with ruins on the ac- I m
tual experiment of them. jo
One cannot look back upon the last fix I
years without wondering at the number and I
the bewitching or rather maddening nature I
of the impostures whbh have been addressed I
to the credulity of mankind. Europe I
was to be bound in cords of love, and the I
nations were to learn war no more; govern- I
I ments wer« to be the works and the image j
| of the people: Thus they would exhibit in J
I their administration the purity and divinity J
jof their origin, and the awful fantlity of -
their destination and duties:—the people're- I
stored to their loft rights, and asserting and I
sustaining their native dignity, were to rife ((
much higher than ever Adam fell; and all f ;
France, indeed all the world, was. I a
To quit its fphcrt and rujb into the piics.
Philosophers, the champions of these rights •?
I the artificers of this splendid machinery, I 2
have wielded the republican feeptre, and
heve brought their principles to the test 1
W disgraced them; for which of their flattering
dreams has not fled, which of their meta- I (
phifical systems assuming just principles and |
carry ißg them to excess, has not been tried I {
and failed, and failed so completely as to I (
cover the agents with guilt and ruin, and I
their admirers wi th confufion?
I But the fe& of political fanaties, rising I 1
like Aneut the stronger from the fall, are I \
never more formidable than when just de- I '
sea ed. To fufftr confutation aiid disgrace I
like fuffering pet "ecution, consolidates the I
party, sublimes the ardor of its zeal and I
[ gives to the unity and energy of its adlion a I
1 power like Samp/on' s to (hake the pillats of I
r every government, with a giant's force,— I
, Though in France a man has no rights, ex- I
. cept such as he holds at fufferatiee, becatife [
the despots may not for the moment have I
an interest to invade them; though it may I
' be put to vote that his estate. real and per- |
| fonal, belongs to the treasury, and that he
i thus beggared, (hall be sent to live with the
less ravenous Alligators of the Oronoko,and I
he goes, yet the words liberty, equality and I
the rights of Man remain.—Yes, they remain I
, not only for mockery at home, but as en- I
I gines of fedu£lion and deftrytlion in every 1
other country. Tbefe wonder working
words, more forceful than Buenaparte's can
non, have annihilated the Dutch and Spa- I
niards—they exist in name, but the vital I
foul of independence is dead within them I
Italy is more changed and more desolated I
than of old by Attila. Fanaticism crosses I
the Adriatic and carries to Dalmatia and I
to the Albanians, that impatience under j
government which requires more than for- I
mer restraint, and yet will not submit to I
' any. It every where ena£ls that men who j
will not be governed by reason (hall not be I
governed by force ; that it is the most de- I
baling extreme of despotism to exatl our |
social or political duties by force, and yet j
the brightest of all civic virtues to assert ]
our rights by violence ; that governments
are the proper obje&s of.hatred and ofhof
tility, becanfe they are in their very nature I
odious, and it is owing to them that the na- |
tions are corrupted as well as enfiaved. The
j credulity, the ignorance and the ferocity of
ir the people are imputed to kings, nobles and
priests. The general good being the end,
j g and the general will the source of authority,
the people may discern and they have a good
right to mijlalc the tendency of measures,
they may for any cause,' or no eaufe at all,
create or change their political systems.
This, it is infilled, a nation, whom ages of
despotism had debased, blinded and corrup
ted, is competent to do with infallible rec
( titude and wisdom, as soon as the dread of
despotic power is,converted into fury againll
those who held it. The tame beasts under
j the monarchy are wild ones now. Slaves
j who slept in chains awake maniacs, and may,
they tell us, be tied with ribbons—they
scatter firebrands, they pillage and kill—no
matter —the declaration of rights is printed
or. their fnuff-boxes—the goddess of reafcv fits
j2 in the church of Notre Dame, and thefhouts
2 of millions are heard at ttie fsaft of confede
to ration and the holy anniverfarv of the mur
v- ders of the 1 oth of August.
Absurdities of this defeription are called
he philosophy, and therefore disdain argument
te and inftruftion. It i 3 then arrogant preten
sion to inftruft mankind. In such extremes
' a they are miracles, and are allowed to atteil
:r- themfelvcs. Thus Buonaparte goes sword
in hand through Italy to persuade the peo
pie lo iwivpt their libfrtf, and to W
drptaikxl as the Dufcb, but for this prctious
gift they inn!) pay their protcclors until they
are, fatisticd.
It may be t»at tbet* are sortie few among
lis who are net fools upon any other fubjeft*
who even yet caTi this the crruft of liberty*
ThcOencefe and Venetians may ape tl*«
French —banifa their nobles and (lay their
priella. jW.s will npt make the ground
bear more corn and 1 wheat—rather less, as
the hand that fhouW fpw the earth is em
ployed to moisten it with blood. Scarci
ty may make revolutions, but revolutions
will make The nectlfity to lx
bnr will remain, and with aggravation in
propoTtion as ffcfe want arises from with
drawing the laborers to become in imagina
tion rulers. The load that preflis the ma
ny down is thils iViade heavier than before*
Thepromifed irfffhjdta'ou cannot be extend
ed to !V>c?fTy,Tj«Tefs mutual-(laughter should
thwi it, until eafrhhalf familhcd citizen lhall
have some leisure and more than bread e
nough. Europe is now overstocked, but if
the French condudt its revolutions, bread
and the confuitiers may comeouteren. Thert
when it is poflible that they should be bet.
ter fed we may hope they will b* better
taught. A. B.
POST-OFFIi K,
Philadelphia, Dec. 30.
C 5" Letters for the BritJ/h Packet the
Princess Charlotte, for Falmouth, 'will be
received at this Office until Tuesday, the
I 2d January, at 12 o'clock, nofti.
N. B. The inland pofluge to Neiu-i'ori
I mujl be paid. 2/
~ NEW THEATRE.
THIS EVENING,
JANUALY 30,
Will be the of
A CURE FOR THE HEART ACHE.
1 To which will tie'ad«kd (for tli. firft time) a grand
1 American Pantomime Ballet, rMI-d,
I THE- ANIMATED STATUE ;
Or, Triumph of Lwe.
Mrs. Q RATTAN,
1) ESPECTFULLY informs her friends and the
fx. public in general, that necefl.'ty obliges'her
to make this effort for the maintenance of her ii,«
I fant family ; for them Mrs. G. foticits thefu- part
I and patrsnage of a generous public, at her
SECOND CONCERT,
I which will be te-morrow evening, id January, at
I Mr. Richardets'.
ACT I.
I Sinfonio, Pleyel
1 Ballad —Mr«. Grattan (wordsfrom Shalfpearejmu-
I sic by a Lady
J Quartett —Messrs. Gillingham Hupfitld, tteng'e
[ I and Miencl Haydn
With a Solo f<*r Mr. Gillingham.
1 Song—Mrs. Grattan AnrOrcfa
' I Concert®—Piano Fotte, by a Young Lady
I Krumpholtz
ACT 11.
• I Concerto—Clarinet, Mr. Wolf
. I Song—Mjt. -Grattan Tacchint
" 1 Sinfonio, Piehl
I Subscribers Tickets Six dollars, which admit ail
5 I the unmarried ladies of his family.
; I No tickets transferable.
1 I Non-fuhfcribers Tickets Two Dollars.
a I The Concert to begin at half paftfix, an J the
r I Band to attend for the Ball at eight-
I Thu Subscribers will please to fend for their tich-.
- I ets, at No. 191 High Street.
- I January r. . it
Bank of North America,
Y January 1, 1798.
A Ta meet, 3Z? f tberu«4lprs this day, adjvi
* / 1 dend of fix per cent, was declared fir the iaft
c half year, which will be paid to the Stocknolders or
e their repreAutatives at any time after the lotb in ft.
(J I By order of the board,
i I JOHN NIXON, President.
a I duoth
Bank of the United States,
y Januaryllstl t I7g g.
S "pHE DireSorshave this day declared arfividenr!
I-I X of Cxteen dollars on each ft?.re for the lad fix
t . I months, — Iso an additional dividend of four dol
, I lars on each share, arifingfrom surplus profits.'
1 Wliich divid»ndi will be paid to the Stockhold
-1 ers, or their legal reprcfentatives, after the :oth
d
j J Nicklin iff Griffith,
, r J At their Store on Walnut Street Wharf—
I HAVE FOR sals,
I 58 hhds. of Jamaica Hum
0 Madeira Wine in pipes and hhds.
10 1 Teneriffe do. in pipes
>e I Old Pcjrt-do. in hhds.
it- j Imperial Te* in quarters and eighths of chefls
, r I Sail Canvass, No. 1, to 8
et , Dithitros, Ginghams, and Muflinets, in packa
rt . ges fu,table tl ' r tlie Weft India market
1 Nails air Tied
ts I Black quart bottles
'f- i Queens ware in hhds. and crates
re I Yellow ochre drj in cafljs ;
a - And at New-York, onboard the
r ship Diana, from Liverpool, exported round
ok % as soon ayihe navigation is open,
id Fine Liverpool Salt
d, Coals
y Spanish Brown
3( j Venetian Red
Purple Brown ! n • .
Patent white \ Pa,nts
"> White lead
IS. Ke<i lead J ,
of Colcothar vitriol
p. 160 bundles Sheathing p?per
, c . Seaming twme
i°(> Ship Diava,
ler For Sale or Charter.
res ALSO,
ey Brig Ar4Aio>«..
Ed N- B. The'ate firm of PhilipNidtlin y Co.
Its is now changed to
Nick in if Griffith.
. jjnuary_ 1.
The Subscriber,
e( ' Informs thofc to w hr is indebted, that his
ait book", whi.-h have been kept oren for their infpec
;n- tlon fiiree December 1796 balaHfed to thepre
fent day, and W'T durmg the prefant month remain
1 at his'Countißg honfe i.> Chcfrvut Street for
el ' tieir furthsr'lr.vifiigation end fcru-.in,',.
>ra JAMKS CRti XuEAF.
eo- PLiUt'.lphla, J-:n ill 1798.
1Prison Manufactory.
FOR SJLF-,
At the Prison of the City 2nd County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails nf all Czcs, from Is} to rody
flooring Brads, Spriggs faille amt card Tarks
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Ehocmakets and Sailers Threpl
Also—Sawed Marble, fu,table for currier's ta' Ift,
tomb and heaottoncs, heartlis, pi£cos,
platforms, flabs.faeU, window fill., c .
All which may he had on reafunablr terms,
Shoes made ani Weaving done at said Prison at
a moderate price.
OrU-r* from a ditlancc, directed to Daniel Tho
mas, age:it for the prison, will be attended to.
- o:: ' rnf " r 2 A mth6ni
TO LET,
A Front Room, suitable for an
Cilice .11 Cojnting bouse,, with a large Cellar.
Any pirfoivwfjo may rent the above, may (if Ve- '
qmr :i h- *ccommodate4 w«ll Board and Lodg
ing . , ;H e fjn,- houie. it no. tifo, South
I-rotit, nfear Pine street. *
"ec;nv-.<r ij. 3«Wjw
URIAH Smttbt,
No. so, nnrthThird street—has for sale,
A Mat and general aflortmem of
Bi"oad Cloths, Kersey meres,Napt
and Era}> Coatings. a'lsq,
A variety of (jJcntlenuns' fafhio'nable fancy Waist- -i
coating, silk Hosiery, &c.
Decembei'<. *eodaw
" FOR SALE, IC
By the Subscriber, at his Store, No. 75, South ci
Water-ftrect, . si
A general atfortmant of China 0!
Ware ,
Black and coloured Sattins ) £
Do. do. L'itoftriags C|
Do. d». Handkerchiefs
Do. do. fewing_Silks
Imperial and Hyson Tea's
I.oag and Ihort Nankeens C
CMiick Silver, in tubs
Hoiland Gin, in pipes
Afiorted Glass Ware, in cases
White and brown Havanna Sugars, in boxes
Molafiep, in HcffOlvadi v
St. Ct.<h Rum and iugar, in do.
Lcr.don particular Madeira Wine i I°'
&crry Malaga Wisps, in qiwrt-.r calks IJI
Red, yelldw and pate Barkis, in clicfts g r
Logwood, See. &c. pe
»«.. — Joseph SIMS.
Salifbnry Estate.
'T'HE Subscriber, piopaGng lo contradl his bull- If]
i. ness. this Eftite tor laid, ort moderate
terms. 011 It are one Blast aritf three Air Furnaces, _
a compleie Vireing Machine, and a Very good grift
Mill, with two pair of (tones ; also a good Forge, all
in perfca repair, as aie all the Water WorkS connefi- Bi
ed wi'h ibefe various,branches. The Air Furnaces Iri
were lately built for the purpcrfe of casting Cannon vr
f r th's State.—There are abou'- two tboufepd acres i
of I.and; one half of whWh is under wood, the other ° a
> ry fine arable Land, producing the bid Hay and
Failure. The Cannori lately tiidnrilaflurcd there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
!"pcrior to any in this country, And probably, equal Sit
to any in (be world ; for not one of flxty-rtilie guns R c
Jslely mjde, ah ! l ugn fonie of the were bbrid p
i:i'o 31 pounders have fiilrd on proving. The fiiu
a.irtn s very eligible, pattitwlarly for this branch of
nunjufjSure, and a place of arms lying in the fiate
rf Cor.ne&iem.jod only-go from Civeralland
H'fT' on the Hitdlbn's river, and having every advan
ce that can refnlt front a plenty of water issuing 11
from 1 large na'urjl pond, very near the F-urnacr, V
snd wirtjh may be converted into a variety of'other gr j
illcful pnrpolej. The purcSafer can be accommodat
ed with all the IWk and utensils, and h»ve pultcflim . Urr
rindr before the firft"of June next, and preparation
may'be madein the uiear. time (br Blalilim- r " el
mediately thereafter, for every part vjrlfl fce delivered n ' l y
in good o«ier, with some coal, Ore, &'c. See. For opei
terjn.r, apply ta Mr. Joseph AotHonvi in Philadel
phia ; David 3robks, t r q.onf of the Reprefentat.ives . r
. in Cor tor tbisStaie ; Mr, Rjfid Waterman, on
the premises, or to the prowictOT tn Mew-York. a
WILLIAM f<W ]
Dcf. t. ,3«wtf gent
"House and Lots, inßor dent own.
r 1 1 0 Bfi ?ObD, a handsome two ftpry Hcufc. YC
X with 4he Lot on which it is ere&cd, Gtuated
about the middle of the beautiful aud healthy
Village of Ssrdentown. The heufclj forty two THI
feet frottt, and in neat order. The lot contains
one acre, and is ope hundred feet on the main No.
street, and extends with the fame breadth tuba»k
street. Also, a large Lot, containing nearly lour Neat
;:TrC5, fcpaFatcd from the former by back lfreet.
One third only of the purch'afe money will be re- j
quired upon executing a deed, and for the re
mainder, such credit will be givert attfie purchase
er may chufe. This property Will be fold free •- q
all incumbt inces.aud an indisputable title give«f 0 f
t-or farther particulars cnqtiirc either of Dr.
William Buttles, refidittg in Borderrtown, near.
the prenjtfes, who will fliew the fame, 01* of
PETER THOMSON, j 0 "
Conveyancer, no. 144, Market-street. T t ,
T>ecemberj. jav/tf
This Day Putyifhed, To \
And to be fold by WILLIAM *OUNG, corner of of M
Second and Chsfhut fttects, tton 1
Prise £%tljs of a Dollar, Alld;
Qbfervations on certain Documents
Contained ift No. V and Vl of a
" The History of the United States .for vcr . a ;
tlie year I 798, c ® d
In which *he CH *.roe of spi;cDt.ATioN against U l6 , 3
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, C, ,| ct
I.ate SecretaßV of the TuxASuitr, is FULLY ——
' REFUTED. Scl
m; trf. n ay alms g1 r.
This publication prefects a ooncifc ftatcment
'if the base meanspraftifed by the Jacobins'of the M
United States to afptsrfe charaders of tfrofc !
ps'fons who r.re conftdered as hostile to their difor- |—l
gamaing
respondence between Mr. Hamiltbn and Messrs. j? .
Moaroc, Muhlenburgh and Venabtt, on thefub- ° H ,
]e\fl of the docußients alorefaid, and a series of let- 3 Cl
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
niiltnn, proving beyond the pofiibility of a doubt, ,
that the connexion between him and Reynolds, ar Jy
was the rcfult of a daring confpiraey on the part
of the latter and his affociatis to extort monfry. ,!!
£s* A diicount of one third from the retail prise ■'
will be made in favor of wholcfale pttrchafers, for 1""!
cash. Orders tq be addrtfied to Mr. Young. li"";
Au.utl U. Wank
COLUMBIA HOUSE | pIK
Boarding School for young Ladies-. 1 Bo^
MRS. GROOM3KIDGE with much pleas- I h^!r!
urea'nd rerpefl, rcr.fn.s her finer re ac-
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement - 1
she has received during four years relitjepce ih
Philadelphia; and azures'her frienrls and the
public, far from intending to dceKne her
fchodf, lhe hasmadeaTU[Tertorarrangeui«jrvt for
the more convenient accoininodatiun <jf her . '
scholars. —Bvery branch of ufcfnl and polite ; n '
education is particularly ifttnded to .by Mrs. jhe°U
(iroomhridge and mailers excelling in their | aw
profellions. termsi
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Strieits. J f l ce nc.
June sth, 1797- sirftlif Cat;
The is perfeflly healthy ; andmade txon e\
y.ore agreeable by an extensive garden and let and w:
... gi eund adjoining the hoUic. J ;
y t For Sale by th-e Subfciibcr,
lo bales CofT.is
40 '!o. Eufta^
'hiladel- 11 ' Io "
17 do. Cnnnz
7 Tookery
ra-ks 1 Goralw
25 do. Meragunjees ,
,f dij Check Stripes
, ~ 1 do. Onjzie
..' v '' I box Iljapcrs
ili»' c"' B * ( 7 do. Umbrellas
r[% ' ' } 25 pipes fineparticular Ma&ira Wine, of
■ r the vinfage x.?oc.
MORDECjfi LEWIS.
el Tho- December 5. 3 a*4w
tMm imported in the brig Eliza,
('apt. HAST;E, /rom Bourde.iux ;
C laret in Cases of a very superior quality,
clil " V, hite Sauterne Wine in Cases,
. Olive Oil'in balketw of 12 botlfclcs each,
, c c J f and coloured Xid Gioves, j
( ,f re : do. do.; ilk. do.
°. A ftW pipes of Bourdeaux Brandy.
For Suit ty 1
t JAMES 1 ATIMER, jun.
——— 71, South Wharr»s.
Wha has also for Sale*
A few qr. Calks Old Sherry Wine.
lLE > Pec. 1. < I 3W
J anl . French Circulating Libt-ary.
I JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
~, -n No. 110 Walnut-street,
TNFORMS those who wifli to recur to the only
i mcms of becoming'perfefi in the French Lan
-21 thlit he lias jufl opened his LißaAtty, con-
J sis.ing of upwards of 1150 volumes, the best cal-
Sonth cuiated to affird either ufeful inOrcckion, of plea
< sure. The conditions, together wir'h a Catalogue
! of the Library, miy be seen at every book-feller's
Hi toWn.
! n. 2. All trandations from and into the French, <
Englilh and Spanilh Languages, execu:«fc with ac
curacy and dispatch. eoim ntv. Ij.
WANT £ D; -i
K LARGE PARCEL 0t ]
Scantling and other Lumber, 1
Suitable for House Building ;
xes Alfoa quantityofßtone& Bricks, '
v lam ready to -enter into contrails for the a- 1
boye artiues—a reafona"bie time n»ay be allovyed
for preparing ; and calh (hall be paid either
k s ia advance, or upori their delivery, as may be a- *
greed on.—Apply to the Suhfcriber, House-Car- a
penter, No 2. ''!
®i_ jo/m Crcan. r> , j
DecetnOer iq. dCt. 1
suft- ImportedinthelhipMANcriESTEß, it
>ces! Benjamin She well, Master, , r
arift From Bourdeaux, and for sale by the fubferiber,
all No. ii Walnut Street. '
ie£l- Bonrdeaiux Brandy ~l ,
ac « Irifti market claret ip cases / Entitled" to l
ere" e^°c w ine, in do. | Drawback, 'b
thcr Sauterne, do. do.
Thomas Murgatreyd.
h is WHO WAS" FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and qiiart&i' cases
:«"s Rota do. do.
jj™ Pimento in bags
hof 4°°° bufbela Livtfrpool fait,
late Aug. 24.
"o- . |I>ANCING SCHOOX." •
ing W ILL,A!iI: M'DOUOAH. prefer!to his -
*J r ' his form
, " * the-eitizen»'in geherali a»dre
i*n turns , t < is gratfful thanlu, for the very
ion k° u ntiful encouragemeut he has expetienced for f r<
m _ tnele twenty-five years past-,. takes w
red nity of' infornrting them, his Ichool is now th
For open, at his
Elegant Bali Room ? ■ Jr
on ' ll _Sotith 1 flurtlr-Street, betw'eeri Chefniit arid
Wahttit-ftreets. fn begin at loin thWmofning
for young ladies, aild si in the eyeiiinjj for yoanfe
gentlemen. C
fe. Yellow Fevef and Pestilential on
l"y Diseases. fee
ro THIS DAVIS PUBLISHED, in one vol. oAavo. J| u
ns Ey William Young, Boolfeller,
in No. 52, Second street, the corner of Chefnut llreet,
(Prix,in boards 87 I I Cents J
ur Neatly printed on sing American wove medium s
;t - Paper, W
:: A vIEW f;;
fe Of the Science of Life j wa
•" On the principles eftabliftied in ths elements f° u
•' of Medicine, of the late celebrated
J O H N BROWN, Ml D.
With an attempt to corredV fbme important e-r- ol
of that \work, and cases in illuftratiott, chief- ma
ly felerfied from the records of their praftice, at P ro
. the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br IV 1111 am 2'atbg Chas. Mkclban. ' >f j
To which is subjoined, a Treatift on the ailion
of of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion for the cure of diseases of indirefl debility.
AndadilTertatinn onthe sources of Epidemicand,
PeftiiAttialtlifeafes; in whichisattemptedtoprove
by a numerous induf>ion of Fatfls, that they ne-
r ver aril'e from cphtagiflj), but ,i.-« »I«ny»produ- f-j
ced'ljy certain illates, or certain viciKtudes of tj
the atmosphere, by Charles Machan, bf , nn
Calcutta. j"
k - nOV ■ (»t ere
School Books and Stationary.
w. y olng, ft
„ N"' ?2, Second-street, corn-r Of Chefnut-ftreet| P u h
HAS now ready for fate, a very large assort- v
"lent of Frtitch, Latin and Greek Peal
s. SCHOOL BOOKS. Alfa, f\Kh elementary books * n t'
| J 6a Science, as are generally read in the academies Prai
_ an£ l colleges throughout thfc United States. Trei
w _ I- ATE L Y NlßLlSne®, the
Sheridan's Didiooary, the f«th etlkion, in one P»rt
9 ' large vol. S vo. price 3 dols. " on T
■j D'tto, large 12 nio price 1 dol 75 ws. tion
Ditts, common, price 1 dol. 50 cts.' H
e A ! lof drawing, packing, printing, and rival
r J, Vr "V'" l '''P er > Bookbinder's Board* Paftehoards, Duri
and blotting Papers; printed Blanks, bert'
blank Books, War, Wafers, and other articles, ef new
j the be* quality, used in the counting howfe, or J«
j public omre. —ri
1 ° f a colledmn of
. | BO€Htb, with tse of each aliied, to be had
; [ oa; 24—,ww6w |S
t Davis's Law Book sior/> RIA U
" No. 319, High-Street, Phil,
' GEORGE DAVIS, tobe
r I> WNG buDi.: foi* Ton-.t time rafTin prrpara- - WCO ,
r C rewioving fmo hijpr«f ew boofe.h-.s W °['
_ been under thenecetTity of yoftponinguntil this Hay J
informirgthegentlcmen ofthe Bar generally thro'
• 1 , Stare N that his fpriug importation of And
law books i' now arranged and ready for (ale, on Ci
, ternmhat he troth will intitlehini to thalike p re .
licence he lias e*Mrier.ctd for leVeral years past. vr 0 .
Catalogues, «>inhiiiirg the mofl varied collcc i
t:on ever imported i <rt» this country, are pr : ntcd ITI
tad wjH j?c.ficlivcred ou «(S>ticati6xi. j ]< v
fr.r.c I *
J " *** I ]UI
•«* « »
r, 57/£ AMERIQAN LADIES'
POCKET-BOOK, for 1795.
JUST PUJfLISftED
By WILLIAM Y. BIRCH,
No. 17, fntrh fceond-ftrer containing
AN - !
ctie, and his Family, in the caltlc of OJmuu,
wi:Jj an i)luOra:ion ; being en arcpuot of the princi
pal events in fh<? pubiic liic of the Marqtus, with a
flcetch the faff rings of himfelf' and his utifortO'nate
family, a complete Almanack —104 ruled pages
ie 0 f for memorandums, observations, &c. jfifc, tor account
' of monie* paid and received for everyday in the year
™ —a marketing and o:her ufeful lablcs—general meet
ings of friends—Lift of births, dea.hs, &c —new
count!-y dances, poetry, songs, enigmas, Set. &c.
AL3.J,
f The Gentleman's annual Pocket .Remembrancer,
for 1/98 —containing an Almanack ; 104 rlilei pages
t for memorandurhs and cash account ; Duties payable
on, no >ds impo ted into the Uoited Suees* Cuttom
boufi; fees Sec; ft.imp diMtes, to take place after the
3 vAfl??; mbfcrjj* lirt of the post towns and cross-roads
in ifre States ; a variety of ufeful tab'cs, and
oth«T inter effing jtiatfcer.
ff. Y. con flan tly keeps for sale, a general
aflortincnt'fcf Merchant's account Books, and othet
fiat onary goods, jfnd makes to order books of any
ftze', and ruled to any pattern.
Kl/rgant Maps, on Rollers, and a large Chart of the <
Well-Indies. |
HSir and leather Trunks—Playing Cards, EngJtfh
and American. Dec. 27 * <
N O 'fTc~TL ;
ALL perform concerned are hereby notified,
that the fnfefcriber intends to apply for a re
,an- newal of the undermentioned loft certificates of -
on- Stock in the Bank of the United gtatts —He for* "j
:al- warded th«ti under coi/cr of a letter addrefled to
lea- John Anfley, of London, by the Ihip Bacchus, capt.
;ue George, which left this port in lune lad for Lon
er's don. But that Slip having !?een capturtj on her
pa!fc.ge and fenfcto Prance, the above letter and in
ch, dofures have failed in their deJlination.
Ac- Three certificates, viz.
_ Nos- 26325, 26326, 26327, each for j|
four (hares, dated January ift, 1797, and t ,
ifTued in the name of Henry Grace, of Tot- si
tenham Highcrofs, Great Britain. »'i
' ZACCHEUS COLLINS. a '
Philadelphia, novtmber 8. 2aw6w °
a- Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WF lhL commencc drawing Monday, the zoth c '
ier \ V mft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
a " Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
ir- and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Secoud-ftreet— •-
' 'I Ickets" in ■ the Schuylkill Bridge Lottiry, at Ten
f l>Mnrs, where check boots are kept lor register
ing and examining in these, the City of Walking
— ton > No.lf: and Paterfon Lotteries, and informa- th
l, : tion where ticketsmay. behas( in most of theLotte- l a
ries authorifsd by Jaw in any of the States of the
r | Union.
* M. B. The business of aB&oKSR, in biiyingantl
-felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
.diftountiig Bills arid Notes of Hand, sale of
0 Lands,, Houses, &c. &c. v>vll be duly attended to,
• b Y WM. BLACKBURN.
nbvutihSr JJ. §
James C. £/Samuel W. Fiflier,
AT THM'JR STORE,
Nc.Ji3, corner of Arch and Front streets,
H-AVE FOR SAtE,
Cotton and worsted Hosiery in trunk?, altorted
A few baferei, white, an dye How Flannels ]
Ditto' fiitty ronii® HattdEereHiefs
. Ditto Pullifiat fills ditto
Ditto Pondicherry Madrafs ditto
sitto (Surrahs.
Bengalblack "['affeties
400 a piecss NankeWS, atid
Few chreftl hctt'Hyfbn T«
r Alfo —ijoq boxes best London Window Glass,
>' from Bby 6, to l->hy 14—and 15 (jfofe. Glass
* Ware, alTorted, which they will dispose of cheaper
f than any in the city.
November »8. . .Vawtf
Fiir lale or to be let on ground
! rent,
1 Ai&a'liiable Lot of Ground ; 1 >
SITUATE on the north-eaftcorner of Wai- *Ji
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
- Houfefquare. Tliis lot is fifty-one feet front r *>
on Walnut street, andonehundred and thirteen ii>
feet and an half on Fifth street; there are at
present two fmafl two ffory brick fioules, and a J°>
number of fraall tenements thereon.
Also, far Sale, J
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient ftorts, wharf, &'c. situate on b ut
Water-ftrett, between Mulberry and Saflafras /
streets, containing in front on Water street sis- moi
ty-foar and continuing that breadth east- be 1
ward ninety^five fe«t, then widening to the ets.
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses 1
ave the convenience of apubliealley adjoihing the
on the north fide, and are a very defirablefitua- Wi
tion for a merchant, flour fa£lor,or others who kie
may have occasion for storage of good 9. This
property will be fold cru very reasonable terms two
for cash . For further information apply to the
printer. ' whe
July 3t> m&wtf thei
LAW BOOKS, be°n
Latest Lo'ndoTi' and £)trblin Editions;
H. & P. RICE, Bookfellcrs,
No. i§, South Second, and No. .50, Market street, T
HAVE jwAlieieiiWid-by ehe Ute arr'mti from Briz
London and Dubjin, their spring imports- ors (
tion, confiding a varidty of the lat«ft and moll mor
approved Law Books, which, added to thofc alrea
dy on hand, fprmsihe mod extensive coll;6Hon ev- ;
er offered for sale in this couatry. They theiefore hia ;
beg leave to notice, that from the Mature of their Giln
conne&icnsin DuWm, they are enabled to felllrifh and
editions (as they h£ve hitherto don?) at the very
lowed prices. The following are among the latcll
publication^.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 1 volfc __
Peaka's Cafe? at Nisi Prius ; Ridireway's Rejeorts | j
in the time of Lord Hardwicks; flayer's Procters ~7
Pra&ice in the Ecclrfiaflical Courts; Barton's
Treatise on a Snit in Equity; Tidd 5 * Pt-aiJtice of
the Court of King's Bench in Personal Aflio/is, I
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cmife TP
on Ufss ; modern Reports, 11 vols. London edi- -£.
tion. and 1
H, and P. Rice exped t» receive by the firii ar- usual
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of and I
Durnford and East's Reports, the 2d part of Gil- the
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of the g
new publications. Ai
Jane 26. moll
i'he. History of Pennsylvania" fubli
By ROBERT PROUD, "If
T S nmtr in the prej's, and will Ire published, " ,
A with all enrivenient e.tpedlttoa, by Zi-cha- M
RIAH Poui.srm, jun. £fo. 80, Chefnut-ftreet, made
where lublcript'iOfts will continue conta
to be received, andai Library, f'ubje
accor<img_to tbe.printrcUpropofats, umil Vlw Waxt
work is ready forthe foJ»fcrifcer«. casts
J»ly 'B. jawtf habit
fujiPubtijfol,
And to be had of Messrs. Dohfon, Campbell,Rice, 6 a—n
Cary, and the other pritipil Bookfcllers in man
city,price one dollar, cwiuty-fivecents s iii boards, with
Ne\v \ lews of the Origin of the immc
Tribes and Nations of America. thi '"
By I3F.NJ.4MU>! SMITH BARTON, m d
Ju,KJO - : 4t'
• Tfv.
»\ N
| Nevv-Thcatrc,
9 December 11,, I 797.
THE Makaoers particularly requefi; the con
currence of the public in the abolition of a
, coftotn, which has hitherto obtained, of giving a
laFsv- »?r*«r disposing 'of RETtfllN CHECKS at the
Jlmuu, Theatre.
princi- They are aware that gentlemen are uncon/cious
with a of any wrong oeiie to the interett of the inft'tu
nfjnate tion by tlmpraflicc, from a general', though mif
-1 pages taken iffea that CSieeits ate ("he reprelenaitiresot a
account >'igbt to so many scats in the Theatre, during an
he year "Evening's Entertainment, a»rd at trill;
d meet- when in fa<£, they were never intended as more
new than Mem by Which the Door-iteef'ers are enabled
:c * to ascertain with flic l. rtll truiil/fe to ille fartlcs,th<t
tfojl thmfclves have 'bqer. before in the i liestrt, or
for their a-lmilfjon.
>avsble Independent of the injury t!ie Manrtgtrs futain,
udom- such a C ra «' cc encourages a croud of idle- boys and
!er the other difordcrly to furrouhd the doors of
s-roads t,ie '"hea'.re, to the oovruption of-th'ei{ morat» atai .
cs, and c ' le K reat annoyance of the Audifctws;
It has also besn thefourcc of two Wils of nd in- >
{enera! considerable magnitude ; one is, thai f:mctiiics
'other vel 7 improper company is by these moan, adisit
of any ted ; and the otber, that to Cliec'cs paffiiig
into difhoneil hands, they have be n frequenjlly a
of the couaterfeited to a large amount for the purpoAsof c
Sale.
Inglilh This ftatenienf will, it is refpcilfully hoped, in- "
1 3'- duce the Public to discourage such a traffic : and
the exertions of the Managers will, if t]hus aflilled,
easily prove adequate so its entire abolition.
tified, WIGNELL & ftEINAGLE.
eg 'of December 13 iw_ j
3 for* Muftcal Infirumsnt |
L to 167, Arch-street. 0
capt. THE LOrEis 0F HAJU(O)(V .
r h"; harper,
id in- TNFORMShis friends and the public, that he has -
A now reaxly for sale, a lew ef his neW invented,
■ and much admired fide board Piano Fortes, with
for Ptxi:lls >P ate,lt fwe U. fonopahant and French harp
flop, which for sensibility of touch, brilliancy of
atld tone, simplicity and durability of conftrudtioii, the
Fot- fnperiortty of which,he flatters himfelf, a fmglc to- J
al will convince the unprcjudited judge—As they | J
IS. are manufactured under his immediate infpeition, I
IW of the very beS feafoncd materials, he oan fell 011 i V
reafonable terms forCAsu. InltrUments repaired, .
tt tuned, &c. 1 "
11. N. B. Second hand Piano Fortes taken in ex
zoth change for new. V
r, at november 18. jawjmo.
'tl Samuef 8c Miers FifherT
<7*
ARE lIOW QPEHINU,
r " At their Warehouse, No. 17, Dock Street, afrefh
ing- affortnient of Woolen ahd other goods, fuitablc to
ma " the season, icceived by the laite arrivals from Enr
>"e- land, 5
t^lC T//ey have mlfo for Sale,
Lisbon
and Teneriffe / .
ties, Sherry, and f pipes,hhds. and quarter cafes
e»f Port Wines, J
t0 ' Assorted quecn's ware ifl crates, Ac. J
loth mo* 33d. J
er, City of Washington. bl
SCHEME f
ted Of the Lottery, No. IT,
s For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A oaagnificent'dwelling-houfe" ao,ooo dollars,
* diffi 30,000, art jo, 000
l dittw 15-,000 & cist 15,009 <fo,ob»'
r ditto 15,600 gc raft 15,000 30',pt)0 ~
1 ditto- 10,000 & cafli ro,ooo< ao,obo
I ditto 5,000 8c oast 5,000 10,000
ass, 1 s>°oo &. calh 5,000 10,000 ■
lass' 1 P 1 "' 26 of 10,000 8
per * do. 5,000 eac-h,
lo do. 1,000 - • io,ooc 3
f *0 db. - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - io,ooo :
ioo do. 50 - ia,ew -
400 do. 15 - idioOo
1,000 do. 30 • ao,ooo Ri
ai- 15>00® do. 10 - *59,000
te-
>nt Prizes.
■en S2>*(> 1 blanks.
at
da Jo>ooo Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,00s
N. B. Tofavoiir thofc who may take a qnan- {jv
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the LA6T
on but o?t* : ho:
[* 8 Andapprovednotes, fecuringpayment ineither
-11- money or prizes, in ten days alter'drawing, will
ft- be received for any number not less than 30 tick- 0 '
he ets.
Pes This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of '
ng the private buildings to be ereifed in the City «f
ia- Washington—Two beautiful designs are already
ho Me&ei for the entire fronts on two of the public
lis squares; from tkefe drawingsitispropofcd toere<9
ns twocentreand r ourcorner baildiogs.as soon as j>of- A
(, e fible after thii lottery is fold, and to convey theflv, R
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, ir
the mazier difcribed in rhefchemefdT the Hotel
Lottery. A nett'deduriicnn 0-f ftife per cent. Will Sail
be made to defray the necessary expenses of print- pas
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National Uuivcrlity, to j
be erected within the city of Wafbhlgton. 1
-t. i"ht real fecuritiesgivcn foT-the payment of
m Brize9, are hold by tbe President and two Direia>- —■"
a- ors of the Bank"of Columbia, and are valued at
>ft more than half the amount ol thelGttery.
a - SAMUEL hLODGET.
v " . »§« Tickets may be had at the Eanlc of Coletn- Ac
re bia ;of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter p
( ' r Oilman, Bolton :of Jolui Hopkins, Richmond 250
111 and of UicJiard W-!ls. Poorer's Fe-rrv. rnW p
•ft Samuel Pleafants tsf Sons, b o u
No. 74, South Sccond-Jireci, Hig
' ts ' TLTAVE received a supply of Seal'onable GOODS, old
rs which they are now opening for sale, on
, c reasonable terms. C>a 27 jw
f f% ' ~~+ ■ _ New
J 2 i kale's Museum. Gen
fe nr-HIS valuable repofittjry of thr works of Na
i- I. turc, so well calculated to delight the mind '
and so large the underftandmg, isropened daily, as ch ' ■
r- usual. It Hands in an airy and healthy situations °
:.f and free from the epidemic that at present afflivSs B {1
1- the city; it may, therefore, be frequented with
if the greateftlafety. " As
As an Airtufement, the study of Nature is the R ,,re
most rational aud plealiftg : as a Science, the molt, rlov
- sublime and inflrudive. It elevates the mind an J ,
expands the heirt. They i] '
" IVlim Nature' 1 -worts can charm, 1 v'.th GoJ himfelf i\ °r
i, " Hold «»•«/,." J J lc
Many interring additions have lately been I*"^
made to this Mnfsum : aud the feathered-tribe, "J
e a variety of the mo-1 rare and Seautiia)
-, fubjea», is now very advari'apeoufly arnmgA. -
r ? yigwes, oTWen large «IU -- (some ol theoi" a. ~
casts from nature) are here drcfled ita their proper
habits, and placed in attitudes characteristic of thtir a
- refpeaive nations Here may be seen the North- y OR
American Savage, and the Savage ofSouth-Ameri- w
:, ea—a laboring Chinese, and the Chincfe Gentle- the >
e man—tlte sooty African, and the Kamtl'ch;d»l L
. with foaie Natives of the South Sea Islands. I'he Late
; immense variety and intcrefling diverfitv which j'!
thi» ivlufeum offers to the view, may be seen but RtS
eannot be dcfcribed with full effait. <p.
0" Price only r-4ti» of a dollar. a .». 0
-rSsyi. zB. raw D:
'• '• • -• r
For Savan, ;h
l? . TO SJIL TII2 rrgsr OI'ENIXG,
con J—' lie fa failing Ihip
& SWIFT PACKET,
r Hfig*
fcy commodatiens for p , 111. r ' '
mis" a ' ,pJ y to t!:c M " or
ot'a iv. -v Fraz ■
, Nr
rill; /r /*? c 7 ;>7< / v* 5r >.
norc . Prime Rice, in v
iblcd and Carolina Indigo, Molafleg > .>"■ '
.thit wine, &c. &c
I, or December 27
lain, Wanted to Chars
an d raM _
s os r«r2""v " '•
a[ii ♦ tMuth' land ■
isies • Ptl.!
? lt " 1 ™ . v " i ° •*•'• ! * W
""g Choice Red Port tucir. pir.ci
n>ly and old London Particular Madeira. "*
-sof diateufe, in pipe#.
December 10
in- t-
and I'or ChvrVi.jn,
-nLi— THE v V P
- , Lyi* ? at ihe -ooarf us He frs. jP. r»!fj
y, J "J.
opening Applv to ,v ' -*l »
yw. sinwony <sf Co.
Detemberiß *
has : •>
■ifh 01 Amfterd'am,
th! F A rC M e R,
tri- -
ley 1 WILL fail in a few days, the
on I -* 3 ~*" ,aj part of her cargo being
011 I rcad y- For freight ol fifty tons of Coffrc, or pil
ed 1 fa S e . apply to the matter ou board, at Walnut
' | street wharf, or to
ex- JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is Landing, out of the fiid Ship, from Boar
deaux, and For Sate,,
~~ Glaret in hhds.
} White Wine in quarter caflcn
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
e(h Fentiniac, )
to Sauterjie, > Wines in cases
If- Lurtille, )
Prunes in boxes
novemVer 24.
For Londonderry.
KB*
™ E BRIGANTINE
- William Whittin, Mafler.
■k>j=»=a?sr A ftroßg good vessel, about two
hundred tons, to fail With ill convenient speed, a
'great part of her cargo engaged—now lyihg'at
Willing and Frahcis'sWharf. for freight or pa'f
fagt, apply-to thecsptain, or
JOHN SKYRIN,
Landenbtrger** •wharf.
re, Who wants to Charter.
00 A Vessel of about three hundred tons.
0»' ndv iS. §
«o Far Sale or Charter,
00 GOOD HOPE,
00 WW. carry about 1100 barrels,and
ac WB&sS '* reail y to ta»c in a #argo. For tcrm^
00 * eS==3l£ apply to
Bo Pragers. zsf Co.
PTo- 151, South Second-flrect.
50 \VKo have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
3o Rum, Madeira, Liibon, and Teneriffe wine.
30 November 7.
r' or Liverpoo],
The copper bottomed Ship
- Hamburg Packet,
B- £ Captain Silas Swain.
• t A I ' arge P re por'ioa of her
t - """ 1 cargo being ready to go on
board, is expeded to fail on or about Sunday the
er 3d of December.
ill , For Freight or FaiTage, apply to theCaptaia oh
c . board, at Walnut-flreet Wharf, or to
PHILIP NICKLIN &■ Co.
3 f november 22. % $-
; y For Savannah, in Georgia,
o _ the ship
f- Sally Butler,
l ' Captain Chis^olm,
si A new Vessel, with cxceilewt
„ accommodations for paflfcagers
11 Sails on the 10th of December, For Freight or
Paffsge, apply to ROSS ts* SIMSON.
" IVlm have U difpnfe as,
0 . A small invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO, and a parcel of FfbLLY WOOD.
- noVet?>ier 18. -
' for Sale, b ,
Joseph Anthony & Co.
No. 5, Chcfnut Street-,
- A cargo of choice Bourdeaux Brandy, ift and ad
r proof, just landed
ajo bales of BoUrbon cotton of afuperior quality
9 do. Surat, do do
A quantity of heavy black pepper in bales
Bourbon Indigo of- the ffr'.t quality
High proof Jamaica Ipirits
. Old London particular Madeira wine 7ln pipes &
' do. market do > qr.'caft^
New England rum in hogsheads
Genuine Holland Gin in pipe's
Claret in cases
" Spermaceti candles and flrain'd oil
Prime Btifton beef
' Choice Halifax Salmon in barrels and half barreL-
Do. Herring in db do
' Bed Boston Mackarel in barrels of the fall fare.
1 New-England tow l : aen
A few tons of RufTia cordage
R'iffia feather beds
Clovtr and Timothy feed in :a(ks
Ling wliale-berie
. No I, 2, and 3, Boi'.on Tail duck
A fe-.v chef's tirll quality Hyson tea
Carolina rice in whole aad h.iH tierces ®nd
A-n in>®icr of Dutch hollow giafs ware.
M vtmbcr 8. •- ' t i sw#
Pubfilhedj
At the office of rhe Aurora, No. 112, Market Sfreet
( Price or e dollar ar.d a half,]
A view of theconduft of ttre EXECUTIVE in tfc<-
FOREIGN AFP A IKS of the' United Staiss, connect
ed with the Mifjion to thd French 'Republic during
the >ears, 1 794, 6, "
Bv JAMES MONROE,
Late Minilter Pfcrsporentiary to the f.wd Repnblir
f 1 lift rated by his INSTRUCTIONS aud COR.
RtSPONDENCE and o'her authentic documents
fc. very liberal allowar.ee to those wh<J buy to fell
aoaio.